
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint A1ary's 
OLUME 38: ISSUE 116 TUESDAY, MARCH 30,2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Constitution remains unfinished 
MICHELLE OTIO/The Observer Judicial Council president Elliot Poindexter speaks at Monday's Council of Representatives meet­ing. During the meeting, Brin Anderson was appointed next year's Judicial Council president. 
By MATT BRAMANTI Senior StaffWriter 
In a marathon meeting Monday evening, members of the Council of Representatives inched toward finalizing the student union constitution by Wednesday's deadline, but sev­eral points were still up for debate. 
Members were initially scheduled to vote on the con­stitution at Monday's meeting, but a procedural rule derailed that possibility. Council bylaws mandate that resolutions must be presented in writing 72 hours before they can be voted on. 
Among the points of con­tention was the role of the Executive Programming Board, a proposed body that would "facilitate the coordina­tion, communication and cal­endar setting" of all student government programming bodies. 
Student Union Board manag­er Charlie Ebersol said the Executive Programming Board will help to minimize problems in scheduling a broad spec­trum of campus-wide events. 
"It's to make sure the groups don't conflict," Ebersol said. "It's to level the playing field for all organizations that pro­gram events." 
However, some members expressed concern that the proposed constitution puts the president's executive assistant -essentially a chief of staff ­at the head of the Executive Programming Board. 
Brian Coughlin. the COR adviser from the Student Activities Office, said the arrangement introduces an unnecessary layer of bureau­cracy into the programming process. 
"Everyone seems hell-bent on keeping a chief of staff posi­tion, but we _don't have any-
see COUNCIL/page 4 

College holds female majority 
Editor's note: This is the second part in a three-part series on gender representa­tion in Notre Dame's colleges. 
By KATE GALES News Writer 
The College of Arts and Letters -home to the highest percentage of Notre Dame undergraduates also enrolls the highest percentage of women, according to the Office of Institutional Research. 
Fifty-seven percent of the 2, 784 Arts and Letters stu­dents are female, a trend that may reflect expectations of future career choices, said political science professor Christina Wolbrecht. 
"These issues are part of a broader set of issues in public policy," Wolbrecht said. "Major choice influences future employment, future earnings and is where the wage discrepancy starts." 
Hugh Page, assistant dean of undergraduate studies, agreed that Notre Dame stu­dents of both genders are very forward thinking when determining their undergrad­uate majors. 
"I found students in my classes seriously thinking of quality of life choices and their long term outcomes ­graduate schools, service opportunities, post-Notre Dame life," Page said. "There is a good bit of confusion about how to establish that kind of balance, how to live 
Gender Differences 
College of Arts and Letters 

By Declared Majors: .Men Women 
36% Anthropology 64% 

26.2% Psychology 73.8" 7.4% Gender Studies 92.6" 

34.4" English 6S.6% 
23.6% Peace Studies 76,4" 
52.7% Political Science 47,3" 
Source: Office of Institutional Research MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic 
with the choices you make ­are you going to be employed?" 
These larger decisions are not immune to gender influ­ence, as five majors in the 
see GENDER/page 6 



Students coordinate book drive for charity 
By LAURA VILIM News Writer 
In an attempt to extend the gift of education to those of the South Bend community, Notre Dame students Nina Pressly and Marty Sims have launched a project aimed at collecting books on cam­pus that will eventually be distrib­uted to local children of lower­income families. 
The drive, named "Readers are Leaders," will begin before the Easter holiday and will continue for the remainder of the spring semester. To collect the books, Pressly and Sims have created boxes, which will be set up in every dorm as well as in the lob­bies of both dining halls, LaFortune and various other aca­demic buildings on campus. 
All books -new and used ­that are suitable for children not yet enrolled in high school can be donated. The drive will also be accepting bookstore credit and cash donations in order to buy books, Sims said. 
Once books have been collected on campus, Pressly and Sims will deliver them to South Bend area schools that serve low income students and to educational pro­grams such as the ones held at the Robinson Community Learning Center. Pressly said that she also hopes some books can be donated to the Alliance for Catholic Education program so that ACE members can bring books to each of the nationwide schools at which they will teach. 
The idea for the project came about when Sims, a junior from Knott Hall, contacted Howard freshman Pressly after reading a previous article in The Observer about the book project she start­ed in her local area of Palm Beach County, Fla. 
Sims has also had experience working on book drives that ben­efited homeless children through his parish in Scottsdale, Ariz. The drive will be sponsored by 
see BOOKS/page 4 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Freshman's first year 
What a first year it's been! For a new student, the first year of col­lege is a truly unique experience. 
Let me begin with orientation weekend: the ladies of Saint Mary's tend to be shy 
and well-man- Lisa Gallagher  
nered, attending  
each informa­ 
tional meeting  News Writer  
with only a slight  
murmur of bore­ 

dom pronounced under her breath. 
One of the first weekends I spent at Notre Dame, taking the beauty of the campus in, I learned the term dis-orientation. Dubbed by the upper-classmen, I can find no bet­ter word to describe the festivities. Freshmen are "kidnapped" by the juniors and seniors and shown a really great weekend. 
For most students, you know what I'm talking about. For those who don't, where have you been? 
During the first few weekends of September and October, the various class boards put hard work into planning fun and safe activities for the new students to enjoy, such as the Jamaica Shaka and the drive-in movie on the library green. 
Notre Dame, on the other hand, sported much more exciting dorm parties, in which as many people as possible packed into a tiny room, danced the night away, and met v·arious other students who they would later reunite with in the classroom setting, struggling to fig­ure out how they know him or her. 
Another topic to touch on between the two campuses is obvi­ously the dating scene. Virtually non-existent, I am hardly surprised. 
With the people we have met on countless weekends, I'm sure most of us know how easy it is to ~ave a great time with someone and not · see him or her again. 
Contrary to popular belief, the sole purpose of attending school at Saint Mary's is not to "find a hus­band." After all, this is the 21st century, and we are here to get an education like everyone else. Nevertheless, college is a learning experience in other ways than just school. The Saint Mary's ladies are just trying to have fun like the ladies of Notre Dame. 
The college life between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame is unlike any other, and I can't help being in awe each time I am on either cam­pus. Here are thousands of some of the smartest, most privileged stu­dents in the country; they know how to study hard during the week and let loose on the weekends, maintaining strict grade point aver­ages. 
I'm so glad that as a freshman I received the opportunity to be privy to the college scene through not just one prestigious college, but two. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Lisa Gallagher ·at lgallaO1 @saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to inaccurate reporting, the article "Majors show some gender imbalance" in Monday's issue stared that the College of Engineering employs only five female professors in its chemical, civil and com­purer science departments. These departments actu-· 
ally have 10 female professors. 

Tuesday, March 30, 2004 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: HAS THE WARMER WEATHER AFFECTED YOUR CLASS ATTENDANCE? 



Salra Khan Anthy Green Meghan McCall liz Kozlow Laura Horne James Welcher 
Junior Senior Junior Freshman Freshman Freshman McGlinn McGlinn Off-Campus Pasquerilla West Howard Siegfried 
"Fm a science "Fmfrom "Fm a nerd. I go "Yes ... •• "Fm from Texas . "I skip class major. I have to Florida. This to all ofmy This is cold. ·· and play with 
go to all ofmy isn•t warm classes.·· classes . ., weather.·· 

County seeks to preserve outhouse 
STEAMBOAT SPRINGS, Colo. -A group of history buffs is seeking historic des­ignation for a campground outhouse, with one official saying it's important to pre­serve ''fragments of our his­tory." 
The 4-Hole.Log Outhouse was built in 1935 by the Civilian Conservation Corps, which was organized to employ Americans during Depression and played a key role in the evolution of the nation's parks and forests. 
The Routt County Historic Preservation Board wants county commissioners to consider historic designation when they meet Thesday. 
"It's all in the effort of pre­serving fragments of our his­tory," board chairman Michael Olsen said. "You've got to try to preserve a little bit of the whole area, the whole spectrum." 
Man confesses after seeing 'The Passion' 
MESA, Ariz. -A 20-year­old man confessed to a half dozen burglaries, saying he felt guilty after seeing the movie "The Passion of the Christ." 
When police responded to a burglar alarm at a wire­less phone store around 3:30a.m. on Sunday, Thrner Lee Bingham walked up and confessed to taking $80 from the register, police said. He also said he was responsible for five or six other burglaries. 

"He had made some men­tion that after watching the Mel Gibson movie ... that was his motive for turning himself in," said Mesa police detective Ruben Quesada. 
Bingham told officers he threw the money from a 
U.S. 60 overpass, Quesada said. Police did not find the money. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
L&.l ::1: 
~ 
L&.l 
3: 
_, 
C( 
CJ 
0 
..... 

52 
37 

36 
25 


47 
36 

47 32 

the squirrels. " 
IN BRIEF 

The department of classics is sponsoring a colloquium by Catherine Schlegel, "Satiric Manipulations in Horace" today at 4:30p.m. in room 303 of the Main Buildi'ng. Refreshments will be provided. 
Professor Michael Nwanze of the department of political sci­ence at Howard University speaks about Africa today from 4 to 5 p.m. in 119 DeBartolo. This event is part of International Festival Week. 
Angela Glover Blackwell, Founder and president of Policy Link and former senior vice president of the Rockefeller Foundation will give a lecture entitled "Search for the Uncommon Common Ground: New Dimensions on Race in America." It will take place Wednesday from 4:30 to 
5:45 p.m. in the auditorium of the Hesburgh Center. 
Jim Wallis, editor of Sojourners Magazine will lec­ture Wednesday on "How will 
· you Vote: Politics and Values in 2004." Sponsred by the Center for Social Concerns, the Office of Campus Ministry and Lyons Hall, the lecture will take place at 12:30 p.m. in the Coleman Morse Lounge, and lunch will be provided. 
The Brazil Club will sponsor samba and forro dancing Wednesday from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in the lounge of Pasquerilla West Hall. The even includes performances, instruction and Brazilian treats and is part of International Festival Week. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

51 38 


HIGH LOW 

Tuesday, March 30, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Group approves trip request 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
News Writer 
More than just the meeting place was new at Monday's Board of Governance meeting. 
The meeting, usually held in the BOG office, was moved to Haggar Parlor to accommodate the annu­al switchover from this year's staff to next. The number of attendees was raised to 35 with the addition of the incoming board. 
Incoming board members sat next to their outgoing counter­parts to listen and learn, but were not yet allowed to participate in the meeting. Only current board members were allowed to ask questions and vote on the co­sponsorship. 
Senior Jillian Bernas presented the co-sponsorship that requested funding for air travel to Tapachula, Mexico. Bernas and senior Annie Cashore have been asked to accompany the youth group at Clay United Methodist Church on their mission trip as translators. 
The trip will take place during Clay high school's spring break from April 1 to 9. Bernas and Cashore will help the high school students work with Mexican chil­dren whose parents are in jail. 
"In Mexico, it's quite interest­ing," Bernas said. "It's unlike the United States, where they are just put in foster homes together." 
Rather, children of jailed par­ents are put in jail with their par­ents. The Clay missionaries will received the grant. Jolly said the serve at Albergue Ninos del Spanish department and Saint Futuro el Buen Samarito, a proj­Mary's College as a whole will ect that houses and educates chil­benefit from this particular case, 
dren instead of  as  this  could  
letting them go  become  a  yearly  
to jail with their parents. Bernas said that she and  "What we have to go back to is does this b.enefit the whole  trip involving Saint Mary's students as translators. "I move that we  
Cashore will be instrumental to the mission, as  Saint Mary's community?"  give Annie and JUlian $500, with the stipulation that  
none adult  of the chaper- Michelle Fitzgerald  they come back and present in some  
ones  speak  sophomore class president  way,  shape,  or  

Spanish and only a few of the Clay students have a partial knowledge of the language. 
"We'd like to be able to share our experiences that we've gained from other things with these [high school students] so that they can communicate and help others," she said. "Also, we want to help them gain a better cultural under­standing." 
Because there would be only two Saint Mary's women receiving the travel funds, there was debate among the board about whether or not to sponsor the students for the full amount. 
"What we have to go back to is does this benefit the whole Saint Mary's community?" sophomore clac;s president Michelle Fitzgerald asked. 
Outgoing RHA president Shay Jolly recalled a similar situation at the switchover meeting last year, in which only two students 
form," she said. 
The co-sponsor­ship was passed, and Bernas and Cashore will return at a later meeting to make a presentation about their trip. 
In other BOG news: 
+ 
SAB is hosting an improvisa­tional comedy group from Notre Dame on Wednesday in the Carroll Auditorium at 7:00 p.m. The performance is free to all stu­dents. 

+ 
Technology commissioner Michelle Cooper announced that wireless internet is now available on campus. It can be accessed in the Cushwa-Leighton Library and the Noble Family Dining Hall. 

+ 
This week is the Class of 2007's spirit week. Events will take place all week, and festivities will culmi­nate on Saturday night with a first-year formal. 


Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

Mainwaring named Kellogg director 
Political scientist appointed to 5-year term 
Special to The Observer 

Scott P. Mainwaring, Eugene Conley Professor of political science at the University of Notre Dame and a leading scholar in the University's Kellogg Institute for In~ernational Studies, has been appoint­ed to a five-year term as director of the institute, according to Nathan 0. Hatch, provost of the University. 
Mainwaring's term includes the current aca­demic year and concludes in 2007-08 He is a long­time faculty fellow of the institute and previously served as its director from 1997 to 2002. 
"I look forward enthusi­astically to working with the fellows, the staff and the University community to achieve the important objectives of the insti­tute," Mainwaring said. "Kellogg will build on its reputation as a great com­parative social science research institute addressing issues of democracy, development and social justice." 
While retaining a "core focus" on Latin America, the institute's interests will continue to extend to 
many other parts of the world. Mainwaring said. He also reaffirmed the institute's 10-year strate­gic plan. developed a year ago. which calls for research that has practi­cal policy implications and for faculty and student efforts "to advance the internationalization of Notre Dame." 
Hatch called Mainwaring "an outstanding teacher, scholar and leader." 
Mainwaring earned his bachelor's and master's degrees in political sci­ence from Yale University and his doctorate from Stanford University. 
Mainwaring's many books include two coedit­ed volumes published in 2003: "The Third Wave of Democratization in Latin America: Advances and Setbacks" and "Democratic Accountabil­ity in Latin America." 
He has been the recipi­ent of numerous presti­gious fellowships and grants, including a John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation fel­lowship in 2000 for work on a project on authoritar­ianism and democracy in Latin America from 1945 to 2000. 



Tuesday, March 30, 2004
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
Hussein refuses to talk in interrogations 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -He doesn't have a lawyer in the room, but Saddam Hussein apparently is practicing what most attorneys would advise: Don't talk. Diplomatic and military officials say the former Iraqi leader has provided little useful information in interrogations so far -and may even be having fun. 
The questioning of Saddam ­initially handled by the CIA -is now a joint CIA-FBI operation, a sign that the aim is changing from finding intelligence to gath­ering evidence for any eventual trials. 
The people who are asking the questions at the moment are from the FBI, said a U.S. intelli­gence official, speaking on the condition ofanonymity. 
Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld has indicated in inter­views that interrogators aren't learning much from the former president of Iraq. 
In a recent interview, Deputy Secretary of State Richard Armitage said he occasionally sees the interrogation briefing reports. "He's a pretty wily guy, and he's not giving much infor­mation that I've seen. But he seems to be enjoying the debate," Armitage told WPHT-AM radio in Philadelphia. 
When Saddam was captured, haggard in an underground room in December, officials hoped the interrogation would yield details about the Iraqi insurgency, Saddam's weapons programs, human rights viola­tions and corruption in the U.N. oil-for-food program. 
Instead, House Intelligence Chairman Porter Goss, R-Fla., now calls the questioning a "patience project." · 
"He is very good at denial and deception. I am not sure he even knows what the truth is any­more," Goss said. "I think he's been surrounded by yes-men and sycophants." 
In an interview with the Associated· Press last week, FBI Director Robert Mueller said the FBI is assisting with "certain interrogations" in Iraq, as well as helping with investigations into 
The Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism 
: 
i 

lThe Department of Art, Art History I j and Design is pleased to announce its l j annual competition for the Riley~ i Prize in .Art Histor'1 and Criticism.! 

I J I 
j Current Notre Dame undergraduate l l and graduate students are invited to l l submit essays on any topic in the i history or an or art criticism for l consideration in the competition.! Essavs must deal with the visual arts. ! They may have been \'t'fitten in! conjunction with a course taken at j the University, but need not havei 
! 

been. ! 
Rules governing the competition arc avaihtble in the Art D~partment 
Offic~, 306 Riley Hall. Two coptes of the :mbmission must he delivered to th~ Art Department Offic.e by 3:00PM. Monday, April5 to be eligible. 
A student may only ....ubmit 01\lE entry. 
killings there. He said the bureau 
is also working with documents 
obtained in Iraq. 
Those most likely include 
Saddam's papers. Vince 
Cannistraro, a former countert­
errorism director for the CIA, 
said papers found with Saddam 
when he was captured have 
proved much more useful than 
anything the former leader has 
said. "Every thing that they have 
found and taken action on has 
come from documentation found 
on him," Cannistraro said. 
A defense official would say · 
only that Saddam was in good 
health at an undisclosed location. 
Details of the interrogations 
could come out in any eventual 
trial of Saddam. But the logistics 
-including the date -of any 
trial have yet to be settled. 
On Sunday, Jacques Verges, a 
French lawyer who claims to be 
representing Saddam at his fami­
ly's request, said he expects that 
a trial is still some time away. 
Verges has not met with Saddam 
and is trying to act as his lawyer 
from afar, a U.S. intelligence offi­
cial said. 
The International Committee of 
the Red Cross visited Saddam in 
jail for the first time in February. 
The group does not release 
details of such visits or of a pris­
oner's confinement. However, 
Saddam did write a letter to his 
family that was to be delivered 
once the United States confirmed 
it did not contain any hidden 
messages to his followers. Verges 
did not discuss that letter. -A team of 50 Justice 
Department prosecutors, investi­
gators and support staff has trav­
eled to Iraq to help assemble a 
war-crimes case against Saddam 
and others in his former govern­
ment. 
But Justice officials take pains 
to say that the United States is 
there only to assist the Iraqis 
with advice on what their options 
for a trial might be. 
The officials say they are help­ing the Iraqis to organize evi­dence and lay out possible charges, and aiding them in fmd­ing cooperating witnesses and key documents. The U.S. team is joined by legal experts from Britain, Spain and Poland. 

Council 
continued from page 1 
thing for that person to do," a visibly agitated Coughlin said. 
Following the lengthy-and heated -discussion, members discussed the role and name of the Student Union Board for nearly half an hour. Some members, like Hall Presidents' Council co-chair Sarah Keefer, said SUB's image could use a makeover. 
"SUB doesn't have a very positive connotation in some circles," Keefer said. 
However, not all members agreed. Jimmy Flaherty, who was unanimously confirmed as the new SUB manager, said the existing name has brand recognition among students. 
"SUB ... is a branded name on campus," Flaherty said. 
He said any name change would be expensive, as pro­grammers would have to replace stationery, signs, office supplies and other materials to incorporate the new name. He 

1E1TYEll's BEST CIIPISJIBS-DllllllEIIW­
1111WAIT UIDLITITIIIITEI 
The Student Activities Office is seeking student employees lor the 2004-2005 academic year: 
Positions include: 

LaFortune Building Manager 24 Hour Lounge Monltor Information Desk & Box Offlce ND Cake Service Attendant Billiards Hall Attendant LaFortune Ballroom Monitor Stepan Center Manager Facilities Assistant Program Assistant 
estimated the cost at some­where between $5,000 and $10,000, but declined to cite specific documentation. 
Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni acknowledged that although council members disagreed, the council will still approve the constitution on time. 
"We'll get it passed," Bongiovanni said. "These things aren't going to make people not pass it." 
In other COR news: 

+ 
Members unanimously app­roved the new SUB Board of Directors. Flaherty will assume the role of SUB manager, Bridget Meacham will become director of programming, Jon McCarthy will become con­troller and Heather Kimmings will become director of opera­tions. 

+ 
Members also unanimously aP.proved Brin Anderson as the new Judicial Council president. Outgoing Judicial Council pres­ident Elliot Poindexter praised Anderson's experience in the student union. 


"She has been very involved 

IMPORTANT DATES 
INFORMATION MEETING Wednesday~ March 24,9:00 PM Notre Dame Room~ LaFortune Come and learn more about the job opportunities with the SAO and how you can join the team r 
APPLICATION DEADLINE Wednesday. March 31 Application is available on the SAO web site. 
the more beneficial it will be for them in the future. No child should go without a book, because books change Uves." 
In addition, Pressly hopes hav­ing the program here will inspire other students to start their own book drives back home. 
"I think that it is amazing how involved the Notre Dame com­munity is and how many people enjoy doing such projects," Pressly said. ''I knew that ... people would be very willing to help. Plus, I know that people are from all over the country and hopefully I can influence them to start this project in their own home towns." 
Contact Laura Vilim at lvilim@nd.edu 

with student government over the past two years," Poindexter said. "She has my approval." 
+ 
Poindexter also announced that off-campus elections will be held this Wednesday. 

+ 
Off-campus president Sarah Blake announced her organi· zation will sponsor the last off­campus dinner of the semester on Wednesday from 7-9 p.m. at Buffalo Wild Wings. 

+ 
Sophomore class president James Leito said his class council will sponsor a pizza giveaway tonight at 9 p.m. in LaFortune. He encouraged stu­dents to. pick up free pizza from local restaurants. 

+ 
Chief of staff Pat Corker announced a Texas Hold 'Em tournament will be held this weekend, with proceeds bene­fiting a family seeking to adopt a child. Would-be card sharks can sign up in the dining halls during dinner hours today through Thursday. The entry fee is $10. 


Contact Matt Bramanti at mbramant@nd.edu 



Books 
continued from page 1 
primarily a program that devel­oped from the initiative of Pressly and Sims to form a new opportunity to perform service. 
"While we hear about food drives and blood drives we don't often hear about book drives," Sims said. 
In this frrst year of the drive, Pressly and Sims hope to achieve their goal of campus-wide par­ticipation and set a standard to reach for next year's drive. 
"It would be nice to see some participation," Pressly said. "If every member of the student body brought in just one book, we would have close to 8,000 books. That would be amazing. I hope to do this book drive all four years that I am at ND, and this year I just want to set a number to beat for next year." 

Although Pressly and Sims are aware that other programs exist to help South Bend children receive a better education, they believe "Readers are Leaders" will fill a unique niche among Notre Dame's illustrious commu­nity service opportunities. 
"People look at ND as a bea­con of literary intelligence-we should work to further propa­gate this idea," Sims said. Most ND students have been the ben­eficiary of a wealth of books throughout their lives, and not all people have this luxury of having accessibility to books. The earlier kids start to read, 

Tuesday, March 30, 2004 page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Arab countries postpone summit 
CAIRO, Egypt -Arab countries are rally­ing to Egypt's call to hold an Arab summit in late April after Tunisia postponed a sched­uled meeting amid sharp disagreements on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and U.S.­backed attempts to reform Arab regimes. 
The annual two-day summit, due to begin Monday, was postponed by Tunisia on Saturday amid regional turmoil over Israel's assassination of Sheik Ahmed Yassin ­leader of the Palestinian militant group Hamas-and the U.S.-led war in Iraq. 
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak criti­cized Tunisia for its "unwarranted" post­ponement and immediately offered to recon­vene the summit in Cairo. He told Saudi­owned Orbit satellite TV that Tunisia had "no justification for delaying the summit" and he saw "no problem with holding it within two or three weeks. Everybody is waiting." 
In Washington, Secretary of State Colin Powell denied some Arab news reports that the summit was canceled because of pres­sure by the United States. 
Suspects charged in bombings 
MADRID, ~pain -A Spanish judge charged two more suspects in the Madrid bombings, bringing the total number of people charged in the case to 14, court officials said. 
Judge Juan del Olmo charged Basel Ghayoun, a Syrian, with mass killings and belonging to a terrorist organization. The judge also charged Morrocan Hamed Ahmidam with collaborating with a terrorist organization in connection with the March 11 bombings that killed at least 190 people. 
The charges stop short of a formal indict­ment but suggest that the court has strong evidence against them. They can be jailed up to two years while investigators gather more evidence. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Lawmakers ban gay marriages 
BOSTON -The Massachusetts Legislature gave final approval -for this year -to a constitutional amendment that would ban gay marriage but legalize civil unions, taking the first decisive step toward stripping same­sex couples of court-mandated marriage rights. 
Within moments of Monday's 105-92 vote, Gov. Mitt Romney said he would ask the state's highest court to delay implementation of its November ruling that ordered same­sex marriages to begin taking place as of May 17. He said he will seek a formal stay until the constitutional amendment process is complete. 
Staying active helps in recovery 
ORLANDO, Fla. -Getting modest amounts of exercise, even just an easy half-hour walk a day, appears to substantially improve women's chances of surviving breast cancer. 
Staying active has long been thought to lower the risk of getting cancer, but a new report says it may also be an important pre­scription for recovery. 
The study, released Monday, found that women who exercised after breast cancer reduced their chance of dying from the dis­ease by one-quarter to one-half, depending on how active they were. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Restaurant fire caused by arson 
NAPPANEE, Ind. -A fire that caused two people to suffer smoke-related injuries and damaged a restaurant apparently was an arson, investigators said. 
The fire also displaced residents of six apart­ments above the Tap and Dine restaurant in downtown Nappanee, about 20 miles southeast of South Bend. 
An initial investigation found the fire was intentionally set, Fire Chief Brian Huff said. No arrests were immediately made. 
The fire began at 1 a.m. Friday in one of the apartments, Huff said. 
RUSSIA 


Oil tycoon repents behind bars 
Former Yukos chief praises president and denounces privatization in Russia 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -In a repen­
tant newspaper article he 
allegedly wrote from behind 
bars, Russia's wealthiest 
man, who faces fraud and 
tax evasion charges. called 
Monday for higher taxes on 
business and denounced 
the post-Soviet privatization 
that made him rich. 
In the article published in 
the business daily 
Vedomosti, billionaire 
Mikhail Khodorkovsky 
heaped praise on President 
Vladimir Putin and castigat­
ed himself and other 
tycoons for failing to help 
the poor and for lacking 
patriotism. 
Khodorkovsky, the former chief of Russia's largest oil company Yukos, has been imprisoned since his Oct. 25 arrest, which was widely seen as a. Kremlin-inspired attempt to avenge his grow­ing economic clout and per­ceived political ambitions. Earlier this month, a court ruled to keep him jailed until late May to await trial. 
In Switzerland, justice authorities said Monday they froze bank accounts containing several billion dollars as part of the money-laundering investi­gation into Yukos. The freeze was imposed at Russia's request. 
The accounts were provi­sionally blocked since March 4, when Swiss authorities simultaneously raided companies across Mikhail Khodorkovsky, former head of Russian oil company Yukos, speaks to the the country in connection media Oct. 6. Khodorkovsky published an article Monday condemning unethical 
with the Yukos investiga­
business practices and praising President Vladimir Putin. 
tion. 
Russian prosecutors said ical case," Philippe Neyroud Khodorkovsky said of the a fraction of their price the accounts contained the said. election rout of Yabloko and using government connec­equivalent of $5 billion, but In his newspaper article, the Union of Right Forces tions. Swiss officials refused to be Khodorkovsky scathingly liberal parties in In a remarkable bout of more specific than saying criticized the liberals he December's parliamentary self-criticism, Kho­"several billion Swiss funded for allegedly vote. dorkovsky criticized privati­francs." indulging themselves, Khodorkovsky, whose zation, saying its liberal 
The lawyer representing despising the poor and personal fortune of $15 bil­architects "ignored negative Yukos executives said the ignoring the national inter­lion ranks him No. 16 on social aspects" of the sell­Swiss assets are clean and est. Forbes magazine's list of out. He also blamed himself he would ask Switzerland's "Russian liberalism has the world's richest people, and other tycoons for highest court to lift the gov­suffered a defeat because it owes his wealth to privati­encouraging official graft by ernment order. A ruling will tried to ignore ... vital inter­zation deals of the 1990s in "our obsequious ability to take months. ests of the vast majority of which privileged insiders give when they ask and 
"We believe this is a polit-the Russian people," snapped up prized assets at even when they don't." 


Courts hear challenges to abortion ban 
hear evidence in three separate trials described the law as an attempt to
Associated Press 
before deciding whether it violates the ban an "inhumane and gruesome pro­
NEW YORK -The federal ban on a Constitution. cedure that causes pain to the fetus." type of abortion was challenged in The law is the first substantial limi­"Evidence at trial will illuminate three courtrooms across the nation tation on abortion since the Supreme that partial-birth abortion is never Monday as abortion-rights activists Court's landmark Roe v. Wade deci­medically necessary and is an inhu­argued that the law is so broad it sion. The current cases also appear mane procedure that should be infringes on women's basic right to likely to reach the high court. banned," Lane said in front of U.S. choose. Attorney A. Stephen Hut Jr., speak­District Judge Richard C. Casey in 
The Bush administration argued in ing for the plaintiffs, argued that the Manhattan. defense of the law, the Partial-Birth law "in its stunning breadth would ... He said the law was specific in ban­Abortion Ban Act, saying fetuses feel remove the range of abortion alterna­ning an abortion procedure that kills a pain during such "inhumane" proce­tives available to women in the second "partially born fetus just inches from dures. trimester." He cautioned that the evi­birth." 
The law, signed in November by dence will include "very raw stuff' The lawsuits center on what oppo­President Bush, has not been enforced and that descriptions of surgery were nents call "partial-birth" abortion and because judges in New York, Lincoln, "not for the faint of heart." what doctors call "intact dilation and Neb., and San Francisco agreed to Assistant U.S. Attorney Sean H. Lane extraction." 
Tuesday, March 30, 2004
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Gender 
continued from page 1 
College -anthropology, psy­chology, gender studies, English and peace studies ­stand out as distinctly female­dominated. 
Anthropology 
At Notre Dame, 64 percent of anthropology majors are women, a majority that department chair Jim McKenna attributes to a vari­ety of historical and contem­porary reasons. 
"Anthropology is one of the disciplines in which early on, women played an extremely important role," he said. "This is historically true and has been a factor in the femi­nization of anthropology." 
Taking his analysis a step further, McKenna added that the sex discrepancy -real or stereotyped -may also have to do with anthropology itself. 
"What I think [the femi­nization] is concerns the nature of what anthropology is," he said. "It's a very nur­turing field, a lot of people who go into anthropology really approach their subjects in both professional and per­sonal ways." 
While many men in the field may also possess these quali­ties, he said, "We do identify, in a stereotypical role, this persona of nurturing, caring, listening, observing· and pro­tecting with female qualities." 
McKenna also noted that many of the important figures in the field, such as Margaret Meade and Ruth Benedict, are women. He estimated the fac­ulty of the department as close to equally distributed between men and women ­even with "a tilt towards more men than women if you count concurrent professors." 
Psychology 
The field of psychology,. in contrast, has not always been associated with female achievement. 
"In the past, psychology was very male-dominated," psy­chology department professor Dawn Gondoli said. "Now, the field attracts women, and they're able to be successful in it." 
At Notre Dame, Institutional Research found that as of the fall semester, only 26.2 per­cent of the 455 declared psy­chology majors were men. 
While women tend to domi­nate subareas such as social psychology, developmental psychology and counseling, Gondoli added that areas such as neuroscience and quantita­tive and cognitive psychology put men in the majority. 
Ten of the University's 26 psychology department facul­ty members are women, as opposed to 64.2 percent of the nationally available faculty, according to the November 2003 Notre Dame Report. 
Gondoli predicted that both faculty and student represen­tation would become increas­ingly female in the next decade. 
"There are still older aca­demics, who were predomi­nantly male," Gondoli said. "Women started to get Ph.D.'s in droves in the 1970's." 
For students, she said, "it's either more women than men or will become so in the next ten years." Gender studies 
Gender studies, however, is inarguably a female-dominat­ed major. Only two of the 27 gender studies majors at Notre Dame are men, accord­ing to Institutional Research. 
"I think it's a wider problem of perception," said Sophie White, assistant professional specialist of gender studies. "A lot of males might be inter­ested, but it's not easy for them to declare a major in gender studies. 
"We certainly have an imbalance -quite a sizable one." 
While the major is clearly more popular among women, individual classes may be close to evenly split thanks to cross-listings, White added. 
"We're one of the largest programs, with close to 100 faculty members," White said. "We deal with many subjects through cross-listing." 
She also pointed out that many students taking first­year composition use gender as an analytical method in their classes. 
English 
While students enrolled in English courses may observe a nearly even split of men and women in their classes, this perception can be misleading -only 34.4 percent of the 378 declared English majors are men. 
"I think that there is a very equal representation of men and women in my classes ­at least the ones I've had so far," said Valerie Ralph, a sophomore English major. 
Like gender studies, the experiences of students in the English department reveal the propensity of Notre Dame stu­dents to take a variety of classes outside of their majors. Introductory classes often have a more even split than the higher-level, more specialized classes. 
Senior English major Bess Malis said her courses became more female-domi­nated as they became more advanced. 
"There are definitely more girls," Malis said. "Maybe it has something to do with books and analyzing.... In the English department, a lot of the classes are more appeal­ing to girIs." 
She. added that she has observed more men in her cross-listed classes, "like Irish-Anglo literature." 
Peace studies 
While 52.7 percent of politi­cal science students --peace studies' parent major -are men, 13 of the 17 students in this supplementary major are women. 
"Peace studies tends to be more focused on non-violent alternatives," said Daniel Philpott, a professor of both peace studies and political science. "Political science tends to be more mainstream, more focused on traditional policy and issues ... [some would call that the] classic male persona." .. 
However, Philpott said that his students are doing well regardless of gender. 
"There may be some gender discrepancy, but you see both males and females flourish­ing," he said. 
Page agreed that the suc­cess and encouragement of students of both genders was of first importance to the col­lege. 
"The thing that concerns me the most is to create an atmosphere in the college that is affirmative and life giving to all of the students which we have," he said. "Any data antithetic to that gives me concern." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
UZBEKISTAN 

Wave of terrorism kills 19 
those who would stop at nothing to achieve their misguided goals," State Department spokesman Richard Boucher said. 
The violence, which also wounded 26 people, began Sunday night with a blast that killed 10 at a house used by alleged terrorists in the central region of Bukhara, Prosecutor­General Rashid Kadyrov said. 
Police found 50 bottles with homemade ingredients for bombs and instructions on how to make them, a Kalashnikov rifle, two pistols, ammunition and extremist Islamic literature, he said. 
The two assaults on police took place at a factory Sunday night and a traffic checkpoint early Monday, killing three offi­cers. 
The suicide bombings, carried out 30 minutes apart at a bus stop and the Children's World store near the Chorsu bazaar in Tashkent's Old City, killed ·three policemen and a young child. 
never before been linked to ter­rorist acts -Hizb ut-Tahrir, or the Party of Liberation. The group denied responsibility. 
"I call on everyone to unite and protect our country from enemies like this, to come for­ward against them as one fist," Karimov, the country's former Soviet leader who has held power since before Uzbekistan's 1991 independence, said on state-run TV 
The tiny opposition, banned by Karimov's authoritarian regime from working openly, feared the attacks would deep­en a widespread crackdown against dissent and independent Islam that has led to the jailings of thousands and evoked inter­national condemnation. 
The U.S. Embassy in Tashkent warned that "other terrorists are believed still at large and may be attempting additional attacks." 
"The attacks are yet another example of the importance of continued cooperation against 

Associated Press 

TASHKENT -Two women set off bombs at a children's store and bus stop in the Uzbek capital Monday, capping 12 hours of mayhem that killed 19 people in this former Soviet republic closely allied with Washington in the war on ter­rorism. 
The violence, including two assaults on police and an explo­sion at a bomb-making hide­away, also marked the first out­break of terrorism in this majority Muslim country since the secular government became a staunch U.S. ally after the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks. Uzbekistan hosts hundreds of 
U.S. troops at a tightly secured military base near the Afghan border. 
President Islam Karimov blamed Islamic extremists and said there had been several arrests. He also said backing for the violence likely came from a banned radical group that has 


Tuesday, March 30, 2004 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) + 1.13 +0.31 27.69 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) + 1.12 +0.28 25.31 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) +1.54 +0.05 3.29 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +1.92 +0.45 23.85 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +1.34 +0.16 12.08 
. Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.90 +0.43 48.13 10-YEAR NOTE +1.22 +0.47 38.90 5-YEAR NOTE + 1.79 +0.50 28.46 3-MONTH BILL +0.11 +0.0 I 9.23 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.28 35.45 GOLD ($ffroy oz.) -5.00 418.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.80 I 07.275 
Exchon Rates 

YEN I 05.5 EURO 0.8227 POUND 0.5497 CANADIAN$ 1.31 
IN BRIEF 
Hollywood Entertainment bought out 
POHTLAND, Ore. -Video retailer Hollywood Entertainment Corp. said Monday it has agreed to a buyout offer of about $840 million from a group led by a Los Angeles­based investment firm. 
The deal for the No. 2 video rental chain in the nation would also include the assumption of about $300 million in debt. 
The buyout ·comes as video retailers like Hollywood Entertainment and its bigger rival Blockbuster Inc. have come under pressure from video sales by discounters such as Wal­Mart Stores Inc. and Target Corp. 
Microsoft drops price of Xbox 
SEATTLE -Microsoft Corp. is hoping to draw a broader audience to its Xbox game console -and away from rival Sony's PlayStation 2-by cutting its price by $30. 
The Redmond-based company said Monday it would begin selling its Xbox for $149.99 in the United States. It is making a similar price reduction in Canada and dropping the Xbox price by about $45 in Mexico. 
The company said it wants to attract a wider variety of potential buyers. beyond just hard­core garners. Microsoft, better known for its business software and operating systems, is competing fiercely with Sony's PlayStation 2, theindustryleade~ 
Judge tosses Wmnie the Pooh lawsuit 
LOS ANGELES -A judge threw out a law­suit against the Walt Disney Co. over Winnie the Pooh merchandise royalties, ruling Monday that the owner of those rights unlaw­fully obtained confidential documents from Disney offices and trash. 
Superior Court Judge Charles W. McCoy Jr. dismissed the suit with prejudice, meaning Pooh rights owner Stephen Slesinger Inc. can­not sue again on the claim. 
The decision, if it survives appeal, brings to a close a 13-year legal bid by SSI, which sought to recover millions of dollars it claims Disney owes it for Pooh-related merchandise and royalties on the sale of video tapes, DVDs and computer software. 
-------.--­
CORPORATE TRIAL 
Judge denies mistrial in Tyco case 
Associated Press 
NEW  YORK  An  
uproar over an apparent­ 
ly pro-defense holdout on  
the  jury  brought  the  
grand-larceny  case  
against two former Tyco  
executives dangerously  
close  to  a  mistrial  
Monday before the judge  
sent the jurors back into  
deliberations.  
"It seems to  me  that it  
would be inappropriate to  
declare  a  mistrial when  
all 12 jurors, who have  
devoted six months of  
their lives to this trial,  
are prepared to  contin­ 
ue," Judge Michael Obus  
said in denying a defense  
request for a mistrial.  
Obus said that he had  
spoken with the juror,  a  
79-year-old woman who  
has been identified by  
name  in  several  news  
reports, and that she had  
assured him that "noth­ 
ing that has happened  
will, from  her point of  
view, prevent her from  
deliberating in good  con­ 
science with the other  
jurors."  
After resuming deliber­ 
ations, jurors sent a  note  
asking to see  a  company AP  
memo, and they asked Mark Swartz, former chief financial officer of Tyco, leaves the New York State  
the judge to repeat some Supreme Court with his wife Karen during a recess Monday. The jury will continue  
instructions. deliberations in his grand larceny trial today. 
"Much  water  has  
passed under the bridge  the source of the acrimo­ woman, a  former lawyer,  with the 11 other jurors  
since last Thursday. and  ny was a juror who "does  by name.  - had  placed  unfair  
we would like our recol­ n·ot have  an  open mind"  Exactly what gesture  pressure on the juror to  
lections refreshed," the  and had "stopped deliber­ Juror  No.  4  made,  or  reach a conviction.  
jurors wrote.  ating in a good faith."  whether she intended to  Defense  attorney  
They  later  finished  The juror drew intense  make  a  gesture at all.  Stephen Kaufman also  
deliberating for the day  scrutiny over the week­ was  still  in  dispute.  cited media comments by  
without reaching a  ver­ end  when  some  news  Defense  lawyers  and  an  alternate juror that  
dict and were to continue  organizations reported  prosecutors said they had  suggested other jurors  
Tuesday.  It  was  their  that she  had  made  an  never seen the gesture.  were hostile toward juror  
eighth day of delibera­ "OK" gesture toward the  An  Associated  Press  No. 4, and said, "What  
tions.  defense while walking to  reporter witnessed the  was  a  poisonous atmos­ 
The trial against former  the jury box on Friday.  gesture but did not inter­ phere on Thursday must  
Tyco International chief  On Saturday, the New  pret it as an "OK" sign.  now be lethal."  
L. Dennis Kozlowski and  York  Post  featured  a  On Monday, while sit­ In  arguing against  a  
former  chief financial  sketch on its front page  ting in the jury box, the  mistrial, prosecutor Marc  
officer Mark Swartz was  depicting her making an  same juror repeatedly  Scholl noted the judge  
thrown into turmoil last  "0 K" gesture. It called  brushed at her hair, her  has  repeatedly  urged  
week when jurors told  the  woman "Ms. Trial," a  fingers crooked.  jurors to stay away from  
the judge that the atmos­ "paranoid socialite" and  Regardless of the intent  news coverage. "The law  
phere in the jury room  a  "batty blueblood." The  of  her  gesture.  the  presumes that the jurors  
had become "poisonous."  Wall Street Journal's Web  defense argued that the  will follow  the court's  
A note to the judge said  site also identified the  media coverage  -along  instructions," he said.  

BANKRUPTCY 
Haynes announces restructuring 
filing in federal court in Indianapolis, Demand for those products has
Associated Press 
operates its largest factory and has been hurt recently by a weak econo­
INDIANAPOLIS Haynes its headquarters about 40 miles to my and higher raw material and International Inc., an 870-employee the north in Kokomo. In addition to energy costs, the company said in a maker of industrial metal alloys. filed that 440-employee 1-million-square­regulatory filing last month. for bankruptcy protection on Monday foot plant, Haynes operates a 117-In its bankruptcy petition, Haynes and said it had reached agreements worker factory in Arcadia, La., and a listed $187 million in assets and with creditors and union employees 37-worker plant in Openshaw, $362 million in liabilities -up from in hopes of emerging from Chapter England. The rest of Haynes' work­$235 million in liabilities listed in a 
11. ers are part of th~ company's inter­regulatory filing last month for the 
The 92-year-old company is trying national sales force. quarter ended Dec. 31. The company to shake off a growing debt burden The bankruptcy is not expected to reported a $4.3 million loss for that and dropping customer demand. lead to layoffs, Haynes spokesman quarter on revenue of $46.6 million. 
Haynes said it expected to continue Steven Goldberg said. A tentative agreement with bond­operating without interruption as it The company makes nickel and holders would give them a 96 per­prepares a reorganization plan in cobalt alloy sheets, tubes and bars cent ownership stake in the privately hopes of exiting bankruptcy by year's sold to customers in the aerospace, held company in exchange for turn­end. chemical processing and gas turbine ing over their $140 million in bonds, 
Haynes, which made its bankruptcy industries, among others. the company said. 
"'"l"'V7...,.TI 

page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, March 30, 2004 
MEXICO 
Fox signs justice reform proposal 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY -President 

Vicente Fox signed a sweeping 
justice reform proposal Monday 
to overhaul a system best 
known for corruption, secrecy 
and the lack of public accounta­
bility. 
The proposal, which was then 

sent to Congress, would substi­
tute oral hearings for written 
exchanges of legal briefs. insert. 
the presumption of innocence 
into the constitution, and reor­
ganize national police forces. 
The reforms contain several 

elements that would require 
constitutional amendments. 
Because it deals with crime and 
safety, some of Mexicans' 
biggest concerns, the initiative 
appears to have a better chance 
of receiving congressional 
approval than Fox's failed elec­
tric, labor and tax reforms. 
"It is time to work together to get rid of corruption, impunity, inequality and injustice," Fox said. 
For years, human rights groups have asked for profound justice reforms in a country where corruption, confessions extracted under torture, botched investigations, and an excess of bureaucracy feed a deep mistrust of the system. 
An estimated 75 percent of crimes go unreported, and only about 10 percent of the few that are documented make it to a judge. Under the current sys­tem. if criminals aren't cap­tured within three days of the crime, they won't be caught. 
"If we want Mexico's transi­tion to democracy to continue advancing, there has to be jus­tice," said Jose Antonio Ortega, a member of a Mexico-based organization that gathers crime statistics and advocates crimi­nal justice reforms. 
The center of Fox's proposed reform would strip the federal Attorney General's office of all police investigative powers, according to administration officials who discussed details of the plan with The Associated Press. The change is aimed at speeding up lengthy court pro-· ceedings, discouraging corrup­tion and eliminating conflicts of interest. 
The reform would make the Attorney General's office autonomous from the executive branch, subject all prosecutori­al appointments to Senate rati­fication, and have prosecutors serve staggered terms not dependent on the president's six-year administration. 
Judges handle at least 500 cases a year. They seldom have time to fully review the files, and instead simply sign off on them or pass them on to law clerks and secretaries. Currently, about 60 percent of defendants sitting in jail cells have not been convicted. 
"The workload is no longer manageable,·· Enrique Ramirez Martinez, a judge in central Queretaro state, told The Associated Press by telephone. 
With oral public trials, judges "would be involved in every­thing and automatically resolve the case," Ramirez said. "It would be faster, more immedi­ate and much better." 
The reform would require prosecutors and defense attor­neys to argue their cases pub­licly before a judge who also would hear testimony and review evidence first-hand. It would also introduce plea bar­gains and mediations. 
Although most Mexicans want justice reform, the proposal is 
likely  headed  for  a  tough  
debate.  
Sen.  Orlando  Paredes,  a  

member of the opposition Institutional Revolutionary Party, took exception with the ·idea of substituting written tri­als with oral, public trials. 
Paredes, who is on the Senate's Justice Commission, said experiments with oral tri­als have failed in the past. 
"We shouldn't adopt systems from other countries, because Mexico has its own characteris­tics." 
Police would be given the power to investigate crimes, and could do so without having to wait for a formal complaint -as is the case now. All feder­al police agencies would be fused into one national force. 
Some are concerned that the reform may not go far enough. It does not follow the wide­spread recommendation to take police powers away from the military. for example. 

. -u·;.·;.y·.:..·.·,·.-.·.-~···""··•··············...·.·.•.-.·...•.••.•.•.••.•,.•.•.•.v.•.•.••.•.•.•.·.~-.-... 
·; . • ~f:.(~j\fl..~~ St~:«t~ ~ ; UNn'~ orNOm£ i~\'lt ~ 
i..... . 
· RecSports has openings for this 

Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD -Intercepted radio conversations indicate al-Qaida's top intelligence chief may have been killed in fighting in Pakistan, intelli­gence officials said Monday, but they admitted that no body has been found. 
The radio transmissions disclosed that a man named Abdullah had been killed and that the death caused a great deal of distress among the al-Qaida forces, a Pakistani intelligence official said on condition of anonymity. 
"He was a very important person for al-Qaida," the official said. He added that interrogations of suspected al-Qaida members led the Pakistanis to believe that 
. Abdullah was the group's top intelligence official. 
Pakistan's sweep through western tribal· areas to root out suspected terrorists resulted in the deaths· of 63 suspected militants dead and the arrest of 167 more, army spokesman Maj. Gen. Shaukat Sultan said Monday. 
Another member of Pakistani intelligence said the military was showing photos of Abdullah Ahmed Abdullah to captured mili­tants, but that so far none had identified the photo. He said all available informa­
. tion was also being shared with U.S. intelligence agen­cies. Without a body -and after earlier speculation that al-Qaida's No. 2, Ayman al­Zawahri was cornered -the officials were cautious about any conclusions, since many 

al-Qaida leaders use aliases. 
Abdullah Ahmed Abdullah, who holds an Egyptian pass­port, was indicted for his alleged involvement in the Aug. 7, 1998, bombings of the U.S. embassies in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, and Nairobi, Kenya, that killed 231 people, including 12 Americans. 
He is on the FBI list of Most Wanted Terrorists and was known to have fled to Pakistan after the 1998 bombings. 
Sultan said the army had confirmed Abdullah's death through "independent intelli­gence sources"· but would not say whether it had his body. Abdullah is an extr­emely common name in the Islamic world, and it was impossible to know which of many al-Qaida and other terror suspects Sultan might be referring to. 
The military declared the operation in South 
Waziristan over  on Sunday,  
and claimed it  was  a suc­ 
cess.  

But hundreds of other mili­tants were still at large, offi­cials said. Uzbek terrorist leader Tahir Yuldash was reportedly wounded in the assault but escaped. 
There were 73 foreigners among the 167 arrested. Sultan did not identify their nationalities, but security officials had said Uzbeks, Chechens and Arabs were among them. 
Sultan said 46 troops were killed and 26 wounded. 
Villagers have begun returning to their homes after seeking shelter in Wan a and other villages d ur­
ing the operation, when 
thousands of Pakistani 
forces battled hundreds of 
foreign and local militants. 
Some angry tribesmen demanded compensation Monday for property they said was damaged and loot­ed in the operation, Pakistan's biggest and blood­iest to flush out al-Qaida fugitives. 
"I do not know whose rock­et hit my house. I do not know who looted my home during the military opera­tion, but I think the govern­ment is responsible for it," said Mohammed Alam, 43, a resident in the Azam Warsak area, which was a focus of the military operation. 
Sultan said troops had demolished the homes only of tribesmen who sheltered terrorists, but conceded that some other houses could have come under attack. He denied claims of looting. · 
While Pakistani troops have withdrawn from the target area of the operation, they have not pulled out of South Waziristan. 
Sultan said some of the militants had "dispersed into smaller groups" and they would· not be allowed to regroup. 
President Gen. Pervez Musharraf, a key U.S. ally, has sent 70,000 troops to the border with Afghanistan since the Sept. 11 attacks to prevent cross-border attacks. 
U.S. and Afghan forces have been deployed on the other side of the border as part of an offensive against al-Qaida and Taliban forces there. 
·-------------------------------------------~ 
PPE THE, MlNOR IN PHII_~OSOPHY, .POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The .PP.E. minor hwites aJlplkatio:ns from undergraduates with spc<eial ink---rests in the intersecting areas ofpolitical philosophyt political th"~ory~ and C(.~ooo.mic anulysi&. Ev~ry ye..ar about tw~nty highly :m~.,tivaf~i arid talented snllierftb+are ad.rnitted to I~ PH. Check it out to see ifit is for you. !\.1anyofour students go on to <.~.arocrs and top ~iduateprograms in bt\''~ public policy, philnsophy-:. polrtkal sde:nce~ and economics. · 
Ifyou arc looking for 

(
l) an intt:gmted apptt)at;h to poHtk$ and justicet w itlu:mt aU the requirements or.a. ~ec-0nd major, and 

(2) 
an intellectual:conm1unity offaculty and students ·who sluu;:z your interests, 


thenPPE w.ants you! 

FOR ltiORE INFOR!\fATION, eontac1 either Professor David O'(:Onnor, Philosophy Departmcn~ dQconnor(ij)ld,cdu:+ or Professor John Roost Political Science Dcp:artm~-nt~ Roos.l(@tld.edu. 
POR AN E-MAIL Al•ttLICA1lON,simplys·cnd a request to IJrofcssor Roos or Professor 
o~Connor. The application de~line is J:OO PJ\1 on Yl«iaesday~ Aani.l7, t-ate applkat~~ons \\>ill 
be accepted only ifopenings are stiH available. 
PPE L~FORi\fATION MEETING WEDNESDAY, 
MARC~H 31, 4:30-5:30 Pl\1, 208 o•SHAUGHNESSY 
H.A.Ll.~. 

·-------------------------------------------· 
PAKISTAN 

Top al-Qalda member may be dead 
-----------·--· 
Tuesday, March 30, 2004 page 9 
The Observer + NEWS 

IRELAND 


Ban placed on tobacco in the Irish workplace 
Associated Press though several individual U.S. a sore throat from the smoke," A few publicans vowed "You're talking a load of hoi­states and cities have similarly said Golding. "The ban means Monday to ignore the ban, say­locks, Gerry. This is the greatest 
DUBLIN, Ireland -Smokers rough prohibitions. However, the there's going to be a lot more ing they couldn't afford to turn day Ireland's ever seen," said hid in toilet stalls or shivered Irish version goes beyond meas­people quitting. No more peer away loyal smoking customers. Donaghue. outside Monday as Ireland's ban ures in California and Delaware, pressure over a pint." The government has warned "I've already had one bypass on tobacco in the workplace -which just prohibit smoking in Ireland's airwaves and that its 41 environmental health operation, a coronary stent in an including the country's 10,000 bars and restaurants. barstool discussions have been inspectors will mount undercov­artery, I've got diabetes -I'm usually smoky pubs -began its In the blue-collar pubs of dominated by debate over the er inspections if pubs ignore the living proof that cigarettes are first divisive day. north Dublin, Martin's crusade rights and wrongs of smoking -law, which carries a maximum killers," added Donaghue, who 
Over lunchtime pints, Dublin provoked both joy and fury. its role in the easygoing pub fine of$3,700. quit five years ago. friends and work mates argued "This is the worst idea any atmosphere, ver-Opinion polls He said the smoke in pubs had over the merits of outlawing cig­Irish government's ever had," sus the cancer and suggest a strong forced him to give up his favorite arettes indoors -until the said Gerry O'Connor, a prison other deadly dis­majority supports recreation, playing guitar and
"This is the worst
smokers ducked outside and guard sitting sullenly in a corner eases it causes. the ban in this banjo in a traditional band. "My
idea any Irish 
began puffmg away on city side­of John Doyle's pub. He'd just A government country of 3. 9 mil­surgeon told me I was inhaling walks choked with exhaust been busted trying to sneak a National Smokers government•s lion, where about so much smoke in the pubs I fumes. smoke in the pub's lavatory. Helpline has been ever had.·· 30 percent of might as well be smoking 
Health Minister Micheal "He stayed in the loo [rest­inundated with adults smoke. myself," he said. Martin, who pushed for three room] too long. I smelled smoke, calls from people Feelings run deep O'Connor defiantly insisted years to ban workplace smoking, went in and could hear him puff­seeking nicotine Gerry O'Connor on the issue. cigarettes were blamed for too celebrated with anti-smoking ing, puffing, puffing behind the patches, counsel­Irish prison guard The moment many ills. activists at Bewley's tea house in door," said barman John ing and other O'Connor started "My dad died last year of lung downtown Dublin. He predicted Golding, who ordered the break-the-habit to bemoan the cancer, and he only smoked once other European nations would offending butt extinguished. aids. A second line, opened oppression he was suffering, his a year at Christmas," he said. soon follow Ireland's example. "I think this ban's a great idea. Monday, fielded calls from peo­prison guard colleague Sean "There's probably more cancer­
Ireland's sweeping ban is the Until now I've gone home from ple reporting pubs and other Donaghue, sitting at the next causing chemicals in the air out­world's strictest national law, work with a hacking cough and businesses violating the ban. stool, bit his head off. side the front door." 
Milwaukee mayor faces charges 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE -Prosecutors on Monday alleged campaign finance violations by the acting mayor, eight days before voters will decide between him and another candidate for mayor. 
Acting Mayor Marvin Pratt admitted that he made careless mistakes, but denounced the investigation as politically moti­vated and said he hopes voters judge him on issues like jobs, crime and education. 
"Mistakes were made and I accept responsibility," Pratt said. 
Pratt was accused of four civil charge against Pratt, saying he counts of filing a false campaign did not believe there was a crim­finance report and one civil inal motive. But, he described count of failing to deposit per­the problem as foolish and stu­
sonal campaign contributions in. a campaign account. He faces a forfeiture of $2,500, which Pratt said he will pay. 
District Attorney Michael McCann said Pratt's campaign fmance reports did not match up with bank statements for his campaign account. The figures were allegedly off by $116,000 at the end of 2003. 
The prosecutor decided against seeking a more serious pid. 
"These are all disturbing, how else can you describe it," McCann said. "It is clear he is not very careful in how he han­dles his money." 
Pratt became acting mayor in January when Mayor John Norquist left office four months early for a job in Chicago in the wake of a sexual harassment scandal and an admission that he had an extramarital affair. 


South Bend, IN 46631 Fax: 514.212.1461 
New education law eases student testing 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -For the 
fourth time in as many months, 
the Bush administration is eas­
ing the restrictions of its educa­
tion law, this time in the area 
of testing. 
The latest move -reducing the number of students a school may test without run­ning afoul of the law -proba­bly will cap a flurry of respons­es to concerns from states and schools. 
The No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 requires schools to test at least 95 percent of students in math and reading. Schools also must have 95 percent par­ticipation from all major sub­groups of students, such as minority or disabled young­sters. 
The point is to make sure that schools are accountable for every student's progress, and to ensure that no schools have incentive to exclude lower-performing students on test days. 
Under the new policy, schools will get some leeway. As long as they average a 95 percent participation rate among stu­dents over two or three years, schools will meet the law. 
A school that tested 94 per­cent of students one year, for example, could make the mark if it tested 96 percent of stu­dents the year before. The same is true for subgroups of students. 
Schools also won't have to count students who are enrolled but miss testing, including makeup exams, because of a medical emer­gency. 
The changes are meant to fix a problem that has surfaced anecdotally: schools that fail to meet the federal standard just because a few students miss a test. There is no documentation of how often that has hap­pened, but it can lead to conse­quences. 
Schools that get federal poverty aid but don't make progress goals at least two straight years face mounting 
transfers  to  risking  state  
takeover.  
"We  are  listening to parents  

and educators and making adjustments," Education Secretary Rod Paige said in announcing the new policy Monday to the National School Boards Association conference in Orlando. "But we are not willing to sidestep or ignore the heart of No Child Left Behind -making sure that all children count." 
The changes will apply to the current school testing season. 
Federal officials set out to offer flexibility without backing down from the law's call for at least 95 percent of all students to be tested. Since December." Paige has also eased rules affecting highly qualified teach­ers, disabled children and lim­ited-English learners. 
"It's the first time we've had any recognition of the issues we've raised over the last two years, in terms of their willing­ness to address them," said Michael Bird, federal affairs counsel for the National Conference of State Legislatures. "In that regard, they're to be commended for listening, although we still have some root problems with the law." 
Among them, Bird said, is a view among states that the fed­eral government hasn't provid­ed enough money to pay for its requirements, from data collec­tion to teacher training. 
The Bush administration says that's not true. 
No Child Left Behind, the most sweeping federal educa­tion law in a generation, is the centerpiece of Bush's education agenda. Aimed at improving minority achievement, it won strong bipartisan support but has since faced opposition over key provisions and funding. 
First lady Laura Bush, also speaking in Orlando, urged school board members to sup­port the Iaw. She said it is based on the premise that "all children must have access to high-quality schools regardless of their skin color, their disabil­
sanctions, from having to offer ity or their ZIP code." 
_I 

THE· OBSERVER .····· 

Joe f{etder 

.···••· N;,;Eorrott:•CWreHeini~ger· ..· 
. VIEWPOINT ED.rmlh Sarah Vahulas Sl'OlttSJIDJIDl: Heather Van 
Hoeg:u-deJ} •
SOiNJi Enrroll: M~ria Smldf 
SAINT MARY's_EDrroR: AngdaSaoud "PRom £6rroR: dtuy Benirez GRAPHics EI>rtoa: M""tkl!! Harkins· · 
ADvERTISING MANAGE.Ib Carrie Fiariklln AD DESJGN MANA£~£R: Kdly Nelson WEB AmnNISTRAToib Todd Nieto · 



... 
. .. .. 
·. ()74)4~1~6927 .. 
• AoVERTisfNQ:•••• 

(574}~3:1i6?® ..·...9hs~fud~(f,~

·· EotrCIR mCHttF • 

·.• (S74J6~l~4~Z ..... · ··· · MAHAGiNG EDitOR &AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR • 

Commentaries, and column$ present the views ofthe author~.and Mt necesmily thOK offhe-· · · Obs.erwr.. ·. ·.· · 
Vrewpoint ,;paceis aW!liibk to all readers. The free . . elq)r~ ofall opinions through letters is ¢m;wraged, . Leners to the Edit~tm~dl¢ *igned and miistw~e 
conracr inforrnanoit;.. · · · · . ..... 
· 
.. . 

.. . .. . .· 
. . . 

. ~ns rtgardmgObm-vtrpolidN ~~hr 
·. . difrdNJ to Editor mClikjMiltt~ ·. 
. ... . ... ... 
Posr OFFICE INFORMATioN 

~~~!!!~~ff~rit~~";~~#~~· .. ·• 
~Qt;~o/~~~~w~, .•.. ·.·. 
jlj~ s..~~ld'iiltlili•l'l~ .................... . 1'1/ou<t)....., tN ~m ·.... 
~~!.:::=~~· .. 
Thc~riH ~~~IR<f~~ J'm.. AJI ~~iO, JiahD ~ ·. ·.· ·• 
~-. ·················. 
:. ···:· ..:::.. :.::'<·.<·::.: 
·. ·....·..·,·· ... 
News· · sportS>
Maureen Reynolds ·· Justin Schuver • 
Amanda Michaels · Megan Hawley Katie Laird Steve Coyer Viewpoint Scene Cheryl Barker · • Julie Bender. 
... · Graphics.·· . Illustrator 
. Mike Harkins . Pat Quill 
Dating back to the days of the Jamestown colony, Americans have always loved their deserts. And I am not talking about desolate and unculti­vated lands, though I am sure there are Americans that cannot get enough 
Peter Quaranto 

of the Great Basin Desert in Nevada. I am talking about 
A Call to

the definition of desert as the state Action of deserving rewards and pun­ishments; a state with which Americans are infatuated. We are obsessed with freedom of choice and the value judg­ments that we attach to such choices. We are a culture that believes people get what they deserve. 
This obsession with desert is deeply rooted in the traditional American Dream, which asserts that in America, any individual with work ethic and ambition can achieve his or her goals. Such a rationale, defended most clearly in the few rags-to-riches stories of our history, is not intrinsically wrong, but placed in a context of a flawed and unequal society, it can be problematic. In our day, too many people use this desert complex to rationalize actions that fail to be directed toward helping the poor and promoting the common good. Too many good people use this complex to help them sleep comfort­ably at night, while tens of thousands of Americans live in utter poverty. 
Think about it. How often do you hear people speak of deserving to do something or live a certain way because they have worked hard and made sacrifices? How many of our par­ents believe they deserve to send their children to Notre Dame because they have succeeded in their work? How many of us believe that we deserve to be here because we worked hard in high school? It is apparent that this notion of desert plays a significant role in our culture. 
Even in outreach to the poor and 
Dissecting the American desert complex 
case in our country In the course of this 
..In our country, the
and world. In our questioning, I find 
tremendously notion ofsocial mobility is myself wondering unequal world, the becoming ever more what a society and social status, loca­world would be like 
mythical, and to ignore 
tion and wealth into where people could 
which one is born such trends in exchange move beyond this 
have drastic effects for a rationalization of ungrounded obsession on one's opportuni­with desert. Would 
desert is to make a grave 
ties, resources and those who are blessed
mistake."

support. It Is naive enough to make large 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
marginalized of our society, we often project this obsession with desert. We place standards on who should receive aid and we make judgments on who is worthy of our help. Why do we feel more sympathy for the family that is homeless because they lost everything in a fire than for the homeless man who lost his job due to alcoholism? Again, I am not suggesting this is nec­essarily wrong, but we must be more aware of the emphasis that we place on desert in our culture. 
This American desert complex does hold legitimacy in certain respects, but it also does lend itself to many prob­lems. Such a complex assumes equal opportunity for all, which is not the 
to suggest that someone growing up in an economically-poor family in a troubled neighborhood of Chicago has the same opportunities as someone from a middle-class family in suburban Massachusetts. In our country, the notion of social mobility is becoming ever more mythical, and to ignore such trends in exchange for a rationalization of desert is to make a grave mistake. 
At Notre Dame, I often wonder how many people really believe they deserve to be here. In a world where less than 1 percent of people get to receive a college education and billions of people live under $2 a day. why do we deserve to be here? Is it because we worked harder than our peers in high school? Well then, what if we were born in another country, such as Uganda? What if we grew up in a fami­ly that could not put food on the table? To assert a justification of desert for one's right to a college education is to show a serious lack of global con­sciousness. 
Finally, for Catholics, this notion of desert is problematic. For an individual to assert that all is a gift from God and that no one is outside God's love and mercy, and then to turn around and assert that one has every right to make hundreds of thousands of dollars at the expense of millions of people in poverty is hypocrisy. Jesus dined with the pros­titutes, the tax collectors and the most undeserved of society. Why then, here at the most Catholic university in 
America, is the desert 
complex so rampant? 
amounts of money or 
achieve great amount of power use it more humanely? Would conceptions ofjustice and responsibility for others, especially the poor, take hold more in our consciousness? And would Notre Dame students spend more time utilizing the many opportu­nities available here for growth, giving and gratitude? Only when we begin to think outside this excessive desert com­plex can we begin to build a just world where people are more responsible to one another. 
Peter Quaranto is a sophomore politi­cal science and international peace studies major. Contact him at pquarant@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
Commem9rating 'Week of Action' 
I am writing to support Antonio Rivas' hunger strike this week in order to bring needed attention to various situations of injustice upon our campus. 
Tony is a dedicated, committed individual involved in several campus groups working toward social and economic justice. His hunger strike marks the nationwide Week ofAction, and reminds us all of the inconsistencies practiced by our own administration here at Notre Dame. Tony's commitment to the strike also reminds us of what power students have; we must choose to act in socially and ethically responsible ways by encouraging the administration to fully live out its proudly-held Catholic heritage. 
The principles of Catholic social teaching maintain a dignified standard of human and labor rights not always recognized by companies associating with Notre Dame. Taco Bell's lack of 
OBSERVER POLL 
Do you think student government has made significant accomplishments this year, and do you think next year's will do better? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

responsibility for their labor practices which keep farm-work­ers in poverty, the Gallo Wines' longstanding labor abuses and corresponding boycott, the lack of unions for our campus work­ers, the utterly discriminatory decision denying United in Diversity its right to form a club and other important corporate and social decisions affecting our campus must not be ignored. 
Please support Tony's hunger strike by investigating these issues and encouraging the administration to do so as well, focusing upon justice and equality and responding as a Catholic institution should. 
Kate Maich sen1or offcampus Mar. 29 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"To act without clear understanding. to form habits without investigation, to follow a path all one's life without knowing where it really leads -such is the behavior of the multitude." 
Menclu Chinese philosopher 

p

Tuesday, March 30, 2004 
page 11 

GUEST COLUMN 
Defining the real enviromentalist 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Supporting differences 
Euripides said, "There is just one life for each of us: our own." 
Assuming that God exists and that God is the supreme creator, God created human life. and if God wanted us all to be the same, God would have made us all the same. Fortunately, God made us in all shapes and sizes and colors because God rejoices in difl'er­ence. God also gave us each a mind of our own in which to formulate beliefs and thoughts as well as a heart that knows no boundaries to love. 
Jesus was sent to us to practice and preach the supreme message of God -that is, to love one another. There is no footnote or appendix or additional clause saying "Love only those who are straight," or "Love people who have no flctws" or "Love only those who believe in the same things as you do." No, Jesus' message was crystal clear: God made us out oflove, and our purpose during our time here is to love totally all beings in God's beau­tiful creation. 
We were not sent here to be the judge of other people's morality. If we oppose something, we do not take have to take part in it. But we are not called to point our finger at a "sin­ner" unless we ourselves have no sin. God will be the judge of us on the last day, until then, we all have enough of our own morality to keep us from infringing our beliefs on other people. 
In the comfort of the Notre Dame bubble-which is ready to burst in its heaps of Catholic doctrine -it seems the Student Activities Board has forgotten what is at the heart of our faith. In not permitting United in Diversity (UID) to attain club status, the administra­tive powers on this campus foster an atmosphere in stark contrast to the message of Christ. Rather than welcoming all people and nurturing a sense of inclusiveness in its student body-something this world is in desperate need of-the powers that be continue to try to mute the voice of UID, thus, telling its students that in fact, we do not have to include all people. This is not only unconstitutional, discriminatory and simply unjust-it is anti­Christian. 
UID is not mute, nor is it going away. I only hope the members of the Notre Dame com­munity recognize the injustice being done against this group as incentive to make their voices heard. 
Casey Stanton 
freshman Pasquerilla East Ma..-. 29 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
As new studies show the planet is con­stantly coming closer to total annihila­tion unless we radically change our poli­cies, one must wonder why any sane person would not do everything possible to stop our impend­
ing demise. We still Yonl Rubin drive pollutant-spilling cars and cut down oxygen-pro­ducing, carbon diox-Daily Targum ide-reducing forests, even though we constantly hear about the devastation they cause to nature. Typically, the average person who calls himself or herself an "environmentalist" is just someone who loves and appreci­ates the Earth's natural beauty and resources. This type of person is under­standably worried about pollution, tox­ins and trash, but in the end, he or she primarily views the Earth as an amazing resource for humans to use and enjoy. This type of environmentalist's concern for the Earth's well-being is centered in his or her desire for the prolonged bene­fit for humankind. Most people think of themselves as pro-environment, but they mean some­thing far different and far more innocent than the most prominent philosophers, founders and leaders of the modern environmentalist movement. Environmentalist leaders believe nature exists for its own sake, not for humanity's enjoyment and survival. Humans are no more important than endangered species, polluted lakes or the damaged ozone layer. Environmentalists see humans not as the only moral beings on the planet or hav­ing the utmost value over all other living things, but rather as a disease afflicting the earth, as the enemy of the natural world. Why do some people think the entire world's attention should be focused on 
environmental issues such as global warming, ozone depletion or chopping down trees, while others would rather focus their attention on issues such as combating terrorists and violently sup­pressive dictators? 
The answer. to this question all comes down to the differing beliefs regarding humanity's power to destroy the planet. Could humanity destroy the wor1d? It is not a scientific question as much as a question of how powerful one sees himself or herself. 
nothing more power­ful than humans (i.e., a god), he or she believes humans are powerful enough to destroy the planet. But, if one believes there is an all-powerful god, then he or she will think a human's strength is quite insignifi­cant, and conse­quently humans don't have much of an effect on the envi­
destroy the Earth would be futile. 
Many founders and leaders of the envi­ronmentalist movement believe humani­ty is cutting Earth on the path to destruction. Former Vice President AI Gore wrote in his book "Earth in the Balance," "We are still reluctant to believe that our worst nightmares of a global ecological collapse could come true; much depends on how quickly we can recognize the danger" 
Biologist George Perkins Marsh, author of "Man and Nature," agreed nat­ural forces and processes exist in a sta­ble, harmonious balance but said human activity was destroying that balance. He wrote, ..Man is everywhere a disturbing agent; wherever he plants his foot, the harmonies of nature are turned to dis­cord." He went on to call humankind ..brute destroyers" who "destroy the bal­
ance which nature had estab­lished." 
themselves as being powerful and capable of deter­mining if the Earth's ecosys­
tem will sur­vive-a belief due to 
thinking there is no stronger transcendent power above 

Man. Some think because we are only human we could not destroy the world if we tried. They 
enough bombs, but because they often live with a feeling of rever­ence for a higher transcendent power. This belief in a supreme being puts their vision of humanity's strength in perspec­tive. When a believer in God sees vast oceans, enormous mountains or millions 
·of stars, they are reminded of humans' finite power and the infinite power of the one who created everything. 
The religious person tends to focus on 
good and evil; being morally good is 
more important to him or her than hav­
ing a healthy world. The Earth is worth­
less if there are no humans on it to be 
morally good. 
Many who spend their time helping the 
environment or dealing with issues 
involving human evils have similarly 
good motives centered on helping 
humanity. They just differ on how to go 
about accomplishing this noble goal. 
Secularists tend to focus on the envi­
ronment because a healthy planet is 
most important to them. Since they 
believe there is no god, they hold all liv­
ing things as equals. Most derive their 
morality from nature and see morality 
as a tool to help nature flourish. They 
would prefer a healthy world with mur­
derers to a damaged Earth where people 
were morally good and there was less 
human suffering. 
The secularists' views can be as extreme as The Voluntary Human Extinction Movement, whose slogan is "May we live long and die out." They hold that by the human race ceasing to breed, it will allow Earth's biosphere to return to good health as we become less dense. 
My opposition to radical environmen­talism is rooted fundamentally in morali­ty and in the supreme moral value of human life and our well-being on Earth. 
While a moral humanity in an unhealthy world is an unfortunate, diffi­cult and potentially irreparable problem, a world without a moral humanity is a world not worth existing. Some people are moral to live, while others live to be moral. 
This column first appeared on March 26 in the Daily Targum from Rutgers University and appears here courtesy of U-WIRE. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer 
THE OBSERVER 


Tuesday, March 30, 2004 Tuesday, March 30, 2004 
page 12 





Partners in the fight for justice 
• Whether through poetry or a hunger strike, students
PHOTO BY 

CHUY Melody Gonzalez and Tony Rivas find unique ways
BENITEZ 

to campaign for the causes they both believe in 
~-_y:~ 
(~~~~)-,:'":.:_· 
. 
.--~;~-'~>~ ~:~~-­
;...:·'"~~~-...i_ ..,----~\.;~-~~-:;..~ ~. 
, -_-."1>,' ' ' -.,._, _',_ 
~ . ;~ 
.... -~~; 
-
. 7"-~ 
'.'-~ 
RACHEL OURADA/Observer Illustrations 
S T 0 R Y B y MAR I A S M I T H 
M 
eloay Gonzalez and Tony Rivas could not have realized before meeting this semester how much they would have in common. Since meeting through mutual friends, the two have bonded over more than both living near Los Angeles or a common love for playing guitar and listening to Rage Against the Machine. The two share a cultur­al heritage and passion for social activism that has led them to become some of the University's most dedicated social activists. Anyone who claims Notre Dame students don't care about social causes or much else outside the Notre Dame bubble has obviously never met these students. Whether or not students or administrators agree with their political stances, their dedication to the causes they believe in is undeniable. Gonzalez and Rivas both work with the Progressive Student Alliance. Both participated in the spring break Migrant Experiences seminar in Immokalee, Fla. through the Center for Social Concerns. Both traveled to Kentucky in February to participate in a protest march against Taco Bell and other companies considered by the Coalition for Immokalee Workers and other labor organizations to take advantage of abusive labor practices. 
Most importantly, Gonzalez and Rivas are both children of fathers who worked as migrant farm laborers in their teenage years after moving to the United States from Mexico. Gonzalez' father never had the chance to graduate from high school before dropping out to help support his family. He worked picking eucumbers, raspberries and other crops in the 1970s before obtaining work at the fiberglass factory where he still works in the early 1980s. Rivas' father picked crops every day after school and for a year after high school graduation before finding work in a factory. 
The two students' family backgrounds have given them an especially strong affinity for organizations like the CIW that campaign for labor rights in farming communities. Any student who participates in the Migrant Experiences seminar is bound to come away with a new compassion for the plight of migrant laborers who, according to the CIW, have to pick two tons of to-matoes in order to earn $50 in a day. But a week in the Florida fields can't compare with a student whose parents have told them firsthand what working in them firsthand was like. 
"A lot of the passion I have for immigrants and workers comes from my parents," Gonzalez said at a talk Monday night where both students described their parents' and their own experiences. The talk was held in honor 
of Cesar Chavez day, a holiday celebrated about her heritage, personal experiences Rivas began a week long hunger strike CIW and other labor organizations. The "Cesar Chavez and Martin Luther King in California and other Southwestern and political views since the age of 11 fol­Friday night as a call to the students and athletic department at Notre Dame has a Jr. did so much good, and they were only states in recognition of Cesar Chavez' lowing her younger sister's death. administration of the University to exam­small level sponsorship agreement with one guy," Rivas said. "If one guy can do so groundbreaking work establishing the Gonzalez auditioned by herself, but for ine several issues on which the freshman Taco Bell which allows the company to much, why can't the University do more United Farm Workers in the 1960s. The the performance she asked Rivas to feels the University and its members. advertise in publications and announce­worldwide?" talk also featured a lecture by IUSB Head accompany her on guitar. Rivas composed could take a more compassionate Catholic ments. Matt Gallo, a Board of Trustees Rivas hopes for a reaction from the of Labor Studies Paul Mischler and part an original melody with help from a stance. Rivas has not eaten since Friday member, is the director of a company University's officials, but has not spoken of the film "Fight in the Fields," which friend in Chicago to play while Gonzalez night, and does not plan to eat until a PSA called Gallo of Sonoma Winery, which with the administration directly. depicts the fight for labor unions through read. protest at Taco Bell Friday night, where also has been accused of unfair labor "This is a show of concern for the original footage. The poem was an appropriate one for the group hopes to have live music and practices by the UFW. issues. I want to leave discussion with the 
Cesar Chavez day also marked the start the two friends to perform together. real Mexican food. Rivas was inspired by University spokesman Matthew Storin administration to people more knowl­of the Student Week of Action. The week "People of the Sun" describes the stories of a 30-day hunger strike started sited the Univeristy's Migrant Labor semi­edgeable," Hivas said. "If I don't hear is a national call to students supported by exploitation of certain classes that can by members of the CIW. nar as evidence that Notre Dame is not from them at all, if I don't feel like they're Jobs for Justice, Amnesty International come under capitalism. "If they can go for 30 days, I can go at insensible to the issues for which Rivas doing anything, I may keep going." and other organization in honor of the "People of the sunfl'here are those who least seven to raise awareness at a uni­campaigns. Whatever happens as a result of Hivas' work of Cesar Chavez and Martin Luther have more than they need /But always versity which ean have so much power "The problem is not unknown to the effort, he can count on his friends to sup­King Jr. convince themselves of not having and influence," Hivas said. University as a whole," Sturin said. "If he port him as he has supported them. 
At Latin Expressions on Friday, the enough/While we barely have enough Rivas mentioned the issue of campus learned about the problem as a student "I could see this fire inside of Tony campus had a chance to see how much para sobrevivir (to survive)," Gonzalez workers' right to organize and the gay­here at ND that should count as [when I met him]," Gonzalez said. "He the friendship, and the causes the Rivas writes. straight alliance, but emphasized that he University awareness on some level." gives me a lot of energy. He inspires me and Gonzalez fight for. have meant to When she wrote the poem Gonzalez wanted to raise promote awareness of Although Hivas learned much of what to do the stuff I'm already involved with." both. originally dedicated it to her father and to migrant workers' rights at the University. he knows about the issues surrounding 
Gonzalez, auditioned for the show read­the CIW. At the Friday performance she Hivas was especially concerned about migrant labor on a University seminar, he ing a poem entitled "People of the Sun." also dedicated it to Rivas, who has decid­the University's connection with compa­still feels the University could do more She has used poetry to express ideas ed on a new way to protest for his cause. nies that have been denounced by the good on some issues. Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 


E page 13 
Baby Doll is one of a kind 
Saint Mary's sophomore Skip Bacon wins ninth award for her custom classic 1984 Chevy 510 
S T 0 R Y B y M A RIA S M I T H 
s 
arab Rochelle Bacon doesn't look like a grease monkey. No one seeing the Saint Mary's sophomore standing around the Cavalcade of Wheels in the 
JACC Saturday and Sunday in her pink shirt and 
pink hoop earrings would guess that Sarah, better 
known as Skip, had overhauled the engine and done the body work on her bright pink 1984 custom classic 
Chevy SlO herself. 
Bacon bought the truck for $500 after wrecking her mom's van in high school. She overhauled the engine with some help from her dad and brother when it failed a month after she bought it. 
"When I bought it the engine was shotand the body was trashed," Bacon said. "It ran, but not for long." 
When the car gathered so much rust that driving it was barely legal, Bacon decided to redo the body herself. And while· she was at it, she decided to make sure everyone knew it was her car and her handiwork. 
"I used to drive into town in a little red pickup, and every­one would ask if it was my dad's, or my brother's or my boyfriend's. They didn't believe me that it was mine," Bacon said. "Now, no one asks." 
She had the interior redone in pink leather, repainted the dashboard in specially mixed pink paint and recovered the steering wheel herself. 
The truck was referred to as the Barbie car, Pink, the peppermint car and other nicknames around the show. But its real name, "Baby Doll," is unmistakably written across the top of the windshield. 
To top everything off, the car was made in the same month and year that Bacon was born. In January the owner and her truck both turned twenty. The age is the require­ment for the car, if not the owner, to be considered a clas­sic. 
"In five more years we'll both be 25," Bacon said. "We'll turn antique together." Bacon has yet to undertake any more automotive proj­ects, but stHl does maintenance on her beloved Chevy. "She keeps my hands pretty full," Bacon said. "It's a 20­year old engine, it's not easy to keep running." 
Thanks to Bacon's hard work, the truck is now an award­winning classic and Bacon's pride and joy. Bacon tours to shows around the state and always dresses in pink to match her car. 
For the show on Saturday, her car was parked in the center of the hockey arena surrounded by other pickups, motorcy­cles, dragsters and all other types of motor vehicles. Other cars were taken by elevator to line the hallways on the upper 


ALLISON NICHOLS/The Observer 
Saint Mary's sophomore Skip Bacon hangs an air freshener for every trophy from the gear shift in her cab. 
levels of the JACC. Altogether nearly 250 cars took part in the show. 
Bacon keeps eight pink air fresheners dangling from the gear shift in the cab of her car -one for each award her truck has won. After Sunday, she'll have to buy one more. Bacon left the Cavalcade of wheels with first place in the cate­gory of "Mini Pickups, 1970-1987." 
Although Bacon is excited about the trophy, which stands nearly half her height, and about the cash prize she won at a show 
in Iowa, she doesn't plan to move into the higher echelons of car shows. Companies will sometimes sponsor top cars to travel around the country and pay for repairs and improvements to the vehicles, but the Saint Mary's student w9uld rather maintain her inde­pendence. 
"If you have sponsors, you have to do what they say," Bacon said. "For example, if they wanted me to replace my rims, I'd have to do it. I like what I have." 
While some classic car owners refuse to drive their cars any­where but into the show, Bacon uses her Chevy for errands, going to movies and anything else she has to do. 
So if you see a pink truck any­where around town, make sure to take a closer look and admire Bacon's hard work. And keep the custom paint in mind when you decide whether to try squeezing into that tight parking space next door. 
ALLISON NICHOLS/The Observer 

Bacon bought her truck for $500 before overhauling the engine and redoing the body. Contact Maria Smith at Bacon painted the truck pink to make sure everyone would know it belonged to her. msmith4@nd.edu 


p----------------­
Tuesday, March 30, 2004 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NHL 
Kalinin scores twice in Sabres' 6-0 victory over Blue Jackets 
Brathwaite on the glove side. 
Ass"'iatrd Press 
The Blue Jackets were out­
BUFFALO, N.Y. -The New shot 7-0 when Kalinin scored York Islanders had better look and 9-1 on Roy's goal. out: Here come the Buffalo Columbus was outshot 15-6 in Sabres. the first period and 39-23 over­
Dmitri Kalinin scored twice all. and added an assist, and The Sabres didn't stop there Martin Biron stopped 23 shots in matching a season high· by to earn his tOOth career victo­earning their third six-goal vic­ry in Buffalo's win over tory of the season. Columbus. Senators 5, Lightning 4 OT 
Buffalo moved within three The way the Ottawa Senators points of the Islanders in the and Tampa Bay Lightning were race for the final playoff spot in going, it figured the last shot the Eastern Conference. Both would decide the game. teams have three games "It's two good teams that remaining, and the Islanders' know how to battle right at the magic number is four points. end," Tampa Bay's Dave 
"They've got to be feeling a Andreychuk said after Chris little heat now," Sabres coach Phillips scored from just inside Lindy Ruff said. "We want to the blue line to give the put a lot of pressure on them." Senators an overtime victory 
Derek Roy had a goal and over the Eastern Conference assist, and Maxim Afinogenov, leaders. James Patrick and Chris Taylor "We showed good character also scored in helping the by coming back. But they also Sabres extend their unbeaten did, too. That's the intensity streak to five games (4-0-1). level both teams want going 
"It's as tight as it's ever into the playoffs. We've been been," Biron said. "We've looking for that, and in our last clawed ourselves back there. few games we've been able to And we've got to look at it as a get that. It's a good thing." 
Reuters
little step. But you haven't The victory gave Ottawa a done anything until you close sweep of the season series. The the deal." Senators are 13-2-1 against 
The Sabres, who next play at Tampa Bay the past four years, the New York Rangers on and outscored the Southeast in the Northeast Division by batting a rebound out of the air reduced its magic number to Wednesday, are also feeling Division champions 17-9 in rallying for a victory over the and past Belfour. Just over a one point.over San Jose to anxious, hoping their run isn't four games this season. Atlanta Thrashers. minute later, Aubin scored clinch the top seed in the coming too late. The Lightning are 8-2-2 Toronto is tied with Boston after getting to a loose puck Western Conference playoffs 
"There's a lot of stress and against the second, third and with 99 points. The third-place before a defenseman or with three games remaining. anxiety involved," Sabres fourth-place teams in the East. Ottawa Senators have 98. Belfour could. The Red Wings have won three defenseman Jay McKee said. They're also at a loss to "It's just amazing how tight it Brian Leetch got Toronto straight to take over first place "We've just got to keep this explain their futility against really is," Roberts said. "Every going by making a pass from in the overall NHL standings. thing going. our. goal is to win No. 5 Ottawa, which moved day you look at the standings behind the net to Tie Domi, ..Our objective is to get ready out." within one point of Toronto and and you go from second to whose one-timer cut it to 2-1 at for the playoffs," Detroit for­
The Blue Jackets, shut out Boston -the co-leaders in the fourth to sixth. We're going to 13:08 of the first. ward Steve Thomas said. "We for the 11th time this season, Northeast Division. be doing a lot of scoreboard Alexander Mogilny's one­wanted to continue what we had a four-game winning "We got a point, but it's still a watching the next few d·ays." timer tied it with 4 7 seconds were doing against Colorado." streak snapped. The 4-year-old loss," Tampa Bay's Tim Taylor Toronto started slowly, trail­left in the first. Roberts sent The Red Wings beat the franchise has never won five said. "Our goals aren't the ing 2-0 in the first period Atlanta defenseman Frantisek Avalanche in their two previ­straight. Eastern Conference anymore. before scoring the next four Kaberle to the ice with a check ous games. 
The Sabres took control early Our goals are the Presidents' goals. before making a pass from the Darren McCarty, Jiri Fischer, and kept pressing, making up Trophy and it looks with just Maple Leafs goalie Ed behind the net to Mogilny. Boyd Devereaux and Pavel for their last game getting a point tonight we Belfour made 22 saves, includ­Roberts gave Toronto the Datsyuk scored the other Red Saturday's 2-2 tie at Pittsburgh won't be able to do it now." ing several impressive stops lead after his shot deflected off Wings goals. Ray Whitney had in which Buffalo blew a 2-0 Tampa Bay began the night throughout. Atlanta defenseman Andy two assists for Detroit, which lead. tied with Detroit for the overall Toronto played without Owen Sutton's skate and in at 3:44 of led 2-1 after the first period. 
Kalinin and Roy scored 2:09 NHL points lead. Nolan, who will be sidelined at the third. Nik Antropov made it ..We're trying to peak as apart, putting the Sabres The Red Wings beat least three weeks because of a 4-2 during a power play by we're going into the playoffs," ahead 2-0 by the 8:16 mark of Minnesota 5-3 and pulled one knee injury sustained in putting a rebound past goalie Whitney said. the first period, and before point ahead of the Lightning Saturday's tie against Ottawa. Pasi Nurminen. Alexandre Daigle scored Columbus registered its second with 105. Detroit has three Dany Heatley and Serge Red Wings 5, Wild 3 twice, and Andrei Zyuzin net­shot on net. games remaining, and Tampa Aubin scored for the The Detroit Red Wings have ted the other goal for 
Kalinin's first goal was an Bay has two. Thrashers. nearly secured first place in Minnesota. opportunistic one when his Maple Leafs 4, Thrashers 2 "We were aware it was a big the Western Conference. Now McCarty opened the scoring centering pass, intended for Gary Roberts' two-point game for them, but we have their sights are set on the post­at 4:26 when he put in a wrist Mike Grier, bounced in off effort helped the Toronto guys that are fighting for jobs. season. shot from the top of the left cir­Columbus defenseman Scott Maple Leafs get back into first I can't fault our effort," Atlanta Brendan Shanahan had a cle. Minnesota tied it on a Lachance's skate. Roy made place. coach Bob Hartley said. goal and an assist Monday power-play goal with 9:57 good on Afinogenov's pass into Roberts had a goal and an Heatley, standing alone in night in the Red Wings' victory rema1mng when Zyuzin the high slot, one-timing it in assist, and the Maple Leafs front of the net, gave Atlanta a over the Minnesota Wild. slammed in a one-timed shot from 30 feet to beat Fred moved into a tie for first place 1-0 lead at 4:47 of the first by Detroit, with 105 points, from in front. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Get the 'bleep' out of the cold! Mexico/Caribeean only $125 each way all taxes included. Other worldwide destinations cheap. Book on-line www.airtech.com or (212) 219-7000. 
WANTED 
Wanted-Old paintings, especially Indiana and Notre Dame (574) 286­9359 
Need car driver from Naples FL To South Bend between Aprii-J•Jne Call 2395977438 NO alums looking for summer live-in help. Will provide competitive salary, separate bedroom, weekends off & training in applied behavior analysis to work with autistic daughter. Responsibilities include childcare but no cleaning. Must be energetic, able to drive & swim. Located in Mt. Kisco (40 mi from NYC). Call914-241-9238 
WANTED: MENS Mt BIKE FOR COMMUTE LEAVE DESCRIPTION 273-4486 
FoR SALE 
Home by owner. 18827 Darden Rd. 3BR 2BA WIBSMNT. 100x360 lot. 5 Minsto NO. 623-826-8819 
FOR RENT 
DOMUS PROPERTIES ...HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE ...2 BEDROOM HOUSE...2 BEDROOM DUPLEX...AND THREE 3 BED­ROOM CONDOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR... .WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR THE 2005·2006 SCHOOL YEAR ...CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR SHOWINGS 
VERY NICE 3bdrm home in EastBank area w/washer-dryer & alarm system inci.Nice yard for volleyball etc-full bsmt. Walk to Corbys&StJoe Church. Call Joe Crimmins@ 57 4-514­0643(cell)or574·273-0002(home) 

Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4 bdrms close to ND. Spring, summer or faiL 235-3655. 
Oakhill Condo, 2·3 bedroom, 2 bath, one block from ND, $425.00/person times 3 people, utilities included, available June, 231-8823 after 4:00. 
2,4,5 BedroomApartments near campus. Only a few left for next school year. 
Call Justine, 234-9923. 

New 314 bdrmhomes close to ND, 3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky-lights. $1640/mo. Call574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038 
6-8 Person house on Notre Dame Ave., perfect location across from soccer fields, 2 min. walk to campus Completely rennovated with all new appliances, 3 full baths. Available for 2004-2005 school year. Email ndhouses@yahoo.com 
House on EWashington behind Bamabys, near The Boat 2 BR with private deck and 
1.5 bath. New kitchen and full basement,A/C,bookcases too. Ready to move in now. $675 mo-lease length neg. 289-0262 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 Edwardsburg lake cottage completely furnished. $750/month plus utilities. 850-3347. 
PERSONALS 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, esc. at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER 
Enroll in a Kaplan Test Prep Class in March and get $100 back! Caii1-800-KAP-TEST for further information. 


Tuesday, March 30, 2004 page 15
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Fall 2004 Courses 
ROIT 310 TEXTUAL ANALYSIS I ADVANCED GRAMMAR 9:30-10:45 T/Th C. Ryan-Scheutz 
An introduction to the critical analysis of Italian lit~rary texts across a vari~ty of genr~s and periods, complemented by an advanced grammar review and practice in writing. Recommended for all majors and supplementary majors. 

ROIT 371 INTRO TO ITALIAN LITERATURE I 11:00-12:15 T/Th C. Moevs 
An introduction to the close reading aJ:td textual analysis of representative texts from the Duecento ,u............,1..~.'"'''..."'' Renaissance, including Lentini, Guinizzelli, Cavalcanti, Dante, Petrarch, Boccaccio, Poliziano, Machiavelli, and trace the profile of ltalian literary history in this period, setting the texts in their cUltural and historical context {inl%~:~m~~E,::%W:n'f;?:W:ftt:m:: ::ttW$hltt$1)0!:?; 
:music, art, and architectur~}.vnth attention to the changing lUlderstanding a£ hwnan nature and the physical world F}W!N~~){:·· ru~!~:t·'!:I!.JI:I~IIII::~ll,llil.lll!llllll!l!~lllil!::·:·!"-·.::,.:!::j·::
centuties. Requir~ments include class participation, short essays, .short presentations~ a midterm and a final. Ta,i9.ift#ht~Md~@~'}= l]] Italian. Pre~requisite: ROIT 202 or equivalent; ROIT 310 suggested. The course is required for majors and secondary rwli}pjgF':'·'·."'.,.,,,,,.,.,., o:;,,,,:,::;::,:,r,::::,,,,,,,,,,,.. 
ROITILLRO 4111 DANTE I: INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE 2:00~3: 16 T/Th T. Cachey 
According to the eminent critic John Freccero "Understanding in the Inferno is a process that m~·9'¥,!~!!l[i!~~~:·::::·:::I·:::::·:,,,_:m;:;::;:m,,:,::,}::::!J~!j[jjj)·£ti!fl[:f' characterized as hyperbolic doubt systematically applied to the values of contemporary .society." This may exJpl~MMffi~~:HO:H/H:ib@::M:Mfim strong revival of interest in th.e poem that we have witnessed of late. In this course we will read and discuss in del:~Ql'Ji~M\J.M:): Inferno as well as important "minor" works leading up to the Divine Comedy including the Vita nuova (New Life), t 
(The Banquet). and the De vulgari eloqu~mtia (On vernacular eloquence). The course, whiCh satisfies the requirement. will be offered in English, Undergraduate students of Italian at all levels are welcome. Midterm, final '-"4H~:':·t~:\:'t::,::::::':,:,: brief presentations. 


FTI'/ROIT/LLRO 452! ITALIAN CINEMA:THE REALITIES OF HISTORY 1:30-2:45 M/W Z. Baranski* (ROIT 450!1-Lab 3:30-5:30 Th) 
This course explores the construCtion and development of the Italian cinematic realist tradition from the silent ef.~{f¢i1f:I:ltt:M the the early 1970s, although its primary focus is on the period 1934-1966,which stretches from the appearance ofJBla:settrs::;:::;:;;:;::::~:::;:: openly fascist 'historical' ~c,onstruction, "La vecchia guardia", to Pasolini's 'eccentric' exercise in left-wing (:o:mti:tit~~'$.M/)ft: "Uccellacci e uccellini'', with its mix of expressionist and hyper-realist techniques. At the centre of this period are f<i\ID!;i))::[Jtjj:} some of Italy's most highly regarded films made by directors, such as Vittorio DeSica, Roberto Rossellini, and Lu<~fWfifl:Mtrf.W Visconti, who belonged to the Neo-realist movement (1945-53). These film-makers rejected escapist cinema make films that examined the contemporary expeliences of ordinary Italians. As well as analysing the films in Utemu~e:t·~~:;:=;:::::::::=:::::=:=;:;:; the course examines the formal and ideological continuities and differences between Neo-realist films and their smmt "*A8tftitfr fascist predecessors. In a similar way, it analyses Nee-realism's in1pact on later film-makers, such as Federico Germ.i, Pier Paolo Pasolini, Gillo Pontecorvo, Dino Risi, and Francesco Ro~i. who attempted to develop new veJrs~~>ffi!(Q1%mt:::::::n:::m: cinematic realism. Finally, the course aims to locate the films in their lusto.rical and cultural contexts and to .a~<lf~\r:l\I:!:f!:!:Itm: theoretical issues arising from the concept of 'realism'. 
This one semester, intensive study of Italian grammar and syntax is intended for graduate students working in the humanities or sciences, who are interested in acquiring reading proficiency in Italian. 
ROIT 515 DANTE'S WORLD OF BOOKS 12:30-3:00 T Z. Baranski* 


Dante's World of Books aims to examine the oeuvre and career of, arguably, the most original and influential writer in Western culture from three closely interlinked perspectives. First, the course provides an overview of all Dante's writings, the books he actually produced. Second, it explores his intellectual formation and his attitude towards the literary tradition-the books that were probably present in his 'library'. Third. it will assess the manner in which Dante synthesized his different ideological and poetic interests in order to develop an incisive and powerful assessment and critique o! humanity's position in the order of divine creation. ln the Middle Ages, the created universe was often metaphorical.ly described as "Cod's book" or the "book of creation". The course thus attempts to investigate the com.ple:t inter·relationship that Dante (orged between his books and the 'book' of the Supreme Artist. a popular and highly influential medieval image for God the Creator. 
ROIT 588 MODERN ITALIAN POETRY 3~30-6:00 Th J. Welle 
Addressed to graduate and advanced undergraduates, this course focuses on Italian poetry in the twentieth century. Major Italian poets and poet/translators to be studied include D'Annunzio, Gozzano, Marinetti, Ungaretti, Saba, Montale, Pavese, Quasimodo, Fortini, Pasolini, 8anguineti, Zanzotto. Rosselli, Giudici, Magrelli, Valduga and D'Elia. The role or translation in the evolution, transmission and diffusion of modern Italian poetry will also be considered. Requirements include a 20 to 30 minute seminar presentation, class participation including brief reports on critical readings, and a final research paper. 
ROIT/ARHI 546M SURVEY OF ITALIAN BAROQUE ART 3:00-3:50 M/W/F R. Coleman 
This course surveys Italian painting, scUlpture. and architecture of the 17th and 18th centuries, the era of the foundation and suppression of the Jesuit Order, the Counter-Reformation, absolute monarchy, and democratic nations. Artists and architects under discussion include Caravaggio and the Carracci, Bernini, Borromini, Guarini, Algardi, Artemisia Gentileschi, Pietro da Cortona, Baciccio. Pozzo. and Tiepolo. 
ROIT/ARHI 546E MANNERISM: PAINTING & SCULPTURE IN CENTRAL ITALY AFTER THE DEATH OF RAPHAEL 11:45-01 :00 MIW ·R. Coleman 
This course will explore the artistic trends in Italy after the High Renaissance (c. 1520) and before the Baroque (c. 1580). Our attention will then turn to the Roman art of Raphael's heirs, Giulio Romano, Perino del Vaga, and Polidoro da Cax:avaggio, and the emerging Tuscan painters Pontormo, Rosso Fiorentino, and Domenico Beccafumi. We will also investigate the dispersal of the Roman school: Giulio Romano to the Gonzaga court in Mantua, in 1524. and, following the Sack of Rome in 1527, other maniera artists to Genoa, Bologna, Parma, and as far as the French royal chateau at Fontainebleau. 
*Professor Zygmunt G. Baranski, 2004 Visiting Distinguished Professor ofDante and Italian Studies 
~ 


Zygmunt G. Baranski is the Serena Professor of Italian and Head of the Department of Italian in the Faculty of Modern and Medieval Languages at Cambridge University. Professor Baranski is one of the world's authorities on Danter medieval poetics, and modern Italian literature, film and culture. Professor Baranski's visiting professorship at Notre Dame during the fall of 2004 is co-sponsored by the Devers Program in Dante Studies~ the Medieval Institute and the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures. 
Tuesday, March 30, 2004 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 

Owners decide to keep Tagliabue, instantreplay 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Dry spell over for Duke 
at Duke it's as close to a championship.Blue Devils back in drought as it gets. In Krzyzewski 's 24 seasons "This program has had so at Duke, his teams have
Final Four after 

much success and tradi­beaten Georgetown with "lengthy" 3-year tion," guard Daniel Ewing Alonzo Mourning, UNLV with said. "I think it's a real dis­Larry Johnson andabsence appointment when a Duke Michigan's "Fab Five" in the team doesn't make it to the NCAAs. It's a history of big Final Four." wins that the coach has 
Associated Press 

It doesn't happen often. relied on to teach this year's Krzyzewski. in his 24th team. which has only one 
DURHAM, N.C. -Shelden year at Duke, is second in player -senior Chris Duhon Williams couldn't help but NCAA tournament victories -who has played in a Final smile Monday when asked with 64, one behind North Four. about Duke's three-year Carolina's Dean Smith. He Before Sunday's regional absence from the Final Four. also ranks third in Final championship win against 
"Three years is pretty Four appearances with 10, Xavier, Krzyzewski showed dry," the sophomore said two back of UCLA's John his team tape from past vic­with a laugh. Wooden and one behind tories that catapulted Duke 
Jokes aside, that is the Smith. into the Final Four. attitude at a program that Krzyzewski took over at "It showed the excitement has reached the national Duke before the 1980-81 and who they played semifinals 10 times in 19 season, struggling to a 38-against," Krzyzewski said. seasons. Under Hall of Fame 4 7 record in his first three "All of a sudden, they see coach Mike Krzyzewski, get­seasons while rivals North (Christian} Laettner and ting this far in the NCAA Carolina and North Carolina Alonzo Mourning go up for a tournament is not just a State each jump ball. goal. It's expected. won NCAA He said he
..You have to realize that 
Now the Blue Devils are champi­did "those
it takes hard work, and
two wins away from a fourth onships. things to let national title. Three years you have to earn to be in them know "That's the reason I came later, about the
the Final Four."
to Duke, and I'm sure it's Krzyzews.k i moment and the reason most of the guys guided the don't assume came to Duke," sophomore Blue Devils Chris Duhon that they're guard J.J. Redick said. "To to the 1986 Duke guard going to be in situations like this." title game, know about 
The Blue Devils (31-5) face starting a the moment. Connecticut in Saturday's run of seven Final Fours in We'll do a little of that second semifinal in San nine seasons, including two before we play Saturday." Antonio. It's the Blue Devils' national championships. Still, Duhon said, the play­first trip to the Final Four Duke first won the title in ers don't just assume they'll 
since winning the national 1991, upsetting undefeated make deep runs in March. title in 2001. UNLV in the Final Four then "You have to realize that it The B I ue Devils had beating Kansas. The next takes hard work and you 
reached the round of 16 in year, Duke became the first have to earn to be in the each of the last two years. team in nearly two decades Final Four," he said. "You That performance would to repeat as champions, can't just expect it, or 
qualify as a successful post­beating Indiana in the semi­you're not going to get season for most schools, but finals and Michigan in the there." 
r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·, 
• 
The Fighting Irish compete on the field and court 
with Big East opponents from September to June. 
Now it's your tum to compete with other students from Big East schools for top jobs and internships. 
Dates: March 22 -Aprill6 Positions: Full-Time Jobs and Internships Schools: 10 Big East Schools To Register: Log on to www.monsterTRAK.com, 
establish and/or access your personal. • account and click on the Big East E­Fair icon. 
Participating Employers Include: 
AT& T Wireless FedEx Susquehanna International AIG Kohl's Staple.~ Black & Decker Liberty Mutual Target Bloo"'berg Lowe's Time, Inc. Cingular Wireless MetLife U.S. Patent & Trademark Office cvs Morgan Stanley Unitecl State.~ Secret Sen•ice 
• 



248 Flrmner I lall Web: http://caree1·center.nd.edu Phone: (574) 631-5200 Email: ndcps(ivnd.cdu 
L·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 
Patriots and Colts to open season Sept. 9 
Associated Press 
PALM BEACH, Fla. -NFL owners are ready to give com­missioner Paul Tagliabue a new contract and keep instant replay. 
The questions are how long Tagliabue's term will last and if replay will be made perma­nent. 
Pittsburgh owner •Dan Rooney, who heads the com­mittee that oversees league operations, said Monday the 32 owners agreed unanimous­ly to extend Tagliabue's con­tract, which expires in May 2005. Rooney said the ·exten­sion could be as long as three years, depending on the wish­es of the 63-year-old commis­sioner. 
The extension of replay, meanwhile, was presented to the owners in three possible forms: 
The vote on replay is likely to come Tuesday or Wednesday. 
Owners also discussed some touchy financial issues, includ­,'. ing what several considered a widening gap between haves and have-nots that could hurt the on-field parity that has characterized the past decade. 
"With our stadium and ticket pricing and market, we are 32nd out of 32," said Indianapolis owner Jimmy Irsay, who went into his own pocket to pay a record $34.5 million signing bonus to quar­terback Peyton Manning, last season's co-MVP. 
about the dis­parity in cash flow between their teams and teams such as Washington. 
Redskins owner Daniel I Snyder paid out nearly $50
i 
I million in signing bonuses in
I I the first two days of free
I 
I agency this year. Even with a 
salary cap, some owners ~ believe it's difficult for teams ( with less cash to match that, 
even though Snyder's spend­
~ ing has failed to improve his team in the five years he's owned it. 
I 
Tagliabue predicted Monday the owners would renew the 
l 
NFL Trust, a method by which teams share revenues from 
the sale of licensed merchan­
~ 
dise. But that amounts to only
l 
( about $4 million per team a 
year -the cost of a decent ~ cornerback -and Snyder and ~ Dallas' Jerry Jones want to 
continue discus:.Jions that 
~ J would allow them to market their own products without cutting in others. 
That concerns small market owners, as well as some of those in bigger markets, such as New England's Robert Kraft and the New York Giants' Wellington Mara. 
"I can't see why we're talk­ing about selling a few more bobblehead dolls in Buffalo," 
·Wilson said. "And I wonder how many Cowboy hats Jerry is going to sell there. There's a far more fundamental issue: The money disparity that will end up making it a league of haves and have-nots." 
Tagliabue, who took over in 1989 following the retirement of Pete Rozelle, has seen the NFL through a series of fran­chise shifts and the institution of free agency and the salary cap. 
Rooney noted Tagliabue's needed to provide continuity through new labor and televi­sion agreements. The TV con­tract expire's after the 2005 season. 
"He's taken the league to a new level," Rooney said. "The television situation is phenom­enal, the relationship with the players union is great. We're entering an important period and we want him to continue to lead us through it. It's obvi­ous what we think of him." 
It's believed he will make somewhere in the area of $8 million a year. 
Meanwhile, there will be no expansion of the playoffs from the current 12 teams. Kansas City withdrew its proposal to expand the postseason to 14 teams. making it officially dead. 
Changing the overtime rule remains on the table, but is unlikely to be approved. There is some senti­ment to give
"f[agliabue has] taken 
"There has both teams a to be some the league to a new level. possession in way to create the extra ses­
The television situation is 
a shift there, sion instead of
phenomenal, the 
and it's THE sticking with issue in the relationship with the the sudden­NFL right now, death rule,
players union is great. 
revenue shar­but that sup­
we·re entering an 
ing." port has Owners such important period. and we diminished. 
as Irsay, want him to continue to Last season, 
Rooney and teams getting
lead us through it. ••
Buffalo's the ball first Ralph Wilson, won 23 per­among others, Dan Rooney cent of the are concerned overtime
Pittsburgh owner 
games, down from 36 per­cent in 2002. 
The competition committee, headed by Atlanta general manager Rich McKay and Tennessee coach Jeff Fisher, also recommended instituting 15-yard penalties for choreo­graphed celebrations. And it suggested some minor changes to the fair catch rule. 
Irsay's Colts and Kraft's Patriots will open the 2004 season on Thursday night, Sept. 9 in Foxboro, Mass. 
The game is a rematch of the AFC championship won 24-14 by New England last January. 
The other prime-time games for the first weekend will be Kansas City at Denver on Sunday night, Sept. 12, and Green Bay at Carolina oo Monday night, Sept. 13. 
Dallas will play at Minnesota in a national television game on Sunday afternoon, Sept. 12. No other matchups were announced Monday. 
page 17
Tuesday, March 30, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

-~ 

::~ ..':;: '• :' 
; 

·: ' I 
'~ 
:-:. '{ 
~._.., 

-~ Y:}~~~x~..~­

• A1111U:W....-U...OOI ~sa••• 
• 

• Aa ..........VGA-.ntlitwar..a • 


• De..a.ul: co Wap -...fMI MP3l riaglGIM's. and QRPhics* 
Att.,....s..$150 caa.·$110 ifts.tat......-.aac~ $SO ..,, • ....... •• a two ..-sautte:ag~eement6w anga._ Wifeless). Plicelb1,_. ......is$2SS.S!l. See....-..ampletedetails ....y.. limitad,. ... 
Visit Inlev DID~ r • ~110._•ote -...••attion about ._lltiM:llllll:t•'IIILa: l1th ew..siwelratCingaiN stoles.. 
cingular· 
'Filld a IIPC...it••_.....at•ilauilrtcQ• w ~ I-IIII...C:-.G[Jl.AJL 
·,· 
( 
! page 18 Tuesday, March 30, 2004
The Observer+ SPORTS 

l 
NHL~ ~ 

l \ League approves sale of Thrashers to Atlanta Spirit LLC
~ 
\ \ 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA-With the NHL's approval of the $250 million sale of the Atlanta Thrashers and Hawks on Monday, the new ownership expects to have final documents signed within two days to acquire the teams from Time Warner. 
"It should be less than 48 hours," said Michael Gearon Jr., one of the Atlanta-based mem­bers of the new nine-man own­ership group. 
"When I say we're inches away, we're literally inches away," he added before Monday night's Hawks' home game against Memphis. 
Gearon said he expects the actual signing process to take three hours, a reflection of the complexity of the acquisition of two franchises and Philips Arena, where the teams _play their home games. 
The new partnership, headed by Boston businessman Steve Belkin, is known as Atlanta Spirit LLC. 
Belkin's group agreed to buy the teams and Philips Arena from Time Warner in September. The NBA gave its approval two weeks ago. 

"We were pretty naive when we entered this process," Gearon said about the long wait for approval. 
"I thought the biggest issue both leagues would have would be whether we had the financial liquidity to acquire the teams, and there were other issues 
.. :, 

that were specific to both leagues that were very com­plex," he said. 
The sale process has dragged on for nearly a year. Dallas auto 
interviewed two already and I'm dealer David McDavid began exclusive talks to buy the teams last April, but could never close the deal. 
With McDavid still believing his offer would work out, Time Warner suddenly changed course in mid-September. The media conglomerate announced it was selling the teams to a group headed by Belkin, founder and chairman of the Boston-based marketing and investing company Trans National Group. 
The wait for approval put management decisions on hold for both teams. 
"I can't say anything would have been done any differently this season," Gearon said. ''I'm just thrilled we have the approval. I had goose bumps when I got word of the NBA approval." 
The Thrashers have tentative­ly scheduled a press conference for Wednesday to discuss more details of the sale. 
"We're ecstatic to receive NHL approval as the final step in the sale," said Atlanta attorney Rutherford Seydel, a member of the partnership and the son-in­law of former Hawks and Thrashers owner Ted Turner. 
"Our formal closing is now imminent, and we can't wait to get started." 
Atlanta Spirit LLC also includes Turner's youngest son, Beau Turner. Ted Turner owned the teams and baseball's Atlanta Braves but lost control through a series of corporate mergers. The Thrashers joined the NHL as an expansion team in 1999. 
Belkin and Larry Bird headed a group that made a bid for an 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Keady's coaching future 
' 

remains an uncertainty 
going to interview at least two more in San Antonio." 
He already has confirmed interviewing Connecticut assis­tant Clyde Vaughan and Arizona assistant Rodney Tention for the job. 
Keady is easily the most accomplished of the three candi­dates. 
His 505 career wins in 24 sea­sons in West Lafayette are by far the most of any Purdue coach. He also owns six Big Ten titles and has taken the Boilermakers to the NCAA tournament 17 times. 
The 67-year old coach has one year left on his contract at Purdue and has said he would like an extension. 
Purdue athletic director Morgan Burke has not said whether he will give Keady the extension, but in a written state­ment issued last week he said Purdue "will not stand in his way if he wants to pursue this oppor­tunity. 
"That said, Gene knows we are committed to him through the fmal year of his contract." 
That may not be enough for Keady, who clearly wants to con­tinue coaching, whether it's at Purdue or somewhere else. 
"Sure, I'd like to be back, but you've got to take it day-to-day," Keady said last week. 

~ ~~ 
Members of Atlanta Spirit LLC listen during a press conference In Atlanta Sept. 16. The NHL finalized the $250 million sale of the Thrashers to the group Monday. 
expansion team in Charlotte. In Warner subsidiary, will retain December 2002, the NBA 15 percent ownership of Atlanta picked Black Entertainment Spirit, but will have no say in Television founder Robert operations. The rest of the Johnson to get the North group is split into thirds. Carolina team, which will begin One section is Atlanta-based play next season. and includes carpet company 
Time Warner decided to owner Bud Seretean, longtime unload the Hawks and Hawks executive Michael Thrashers to help relieve some Gearon, his son, Gearon Jr., of its massive debt. The compa­Seydel and Beau Turner. ny has backed off in its efforts A third of the group is to sell the Braves. Washington-based and includes 
Turner Broadcasting, a Time two former minority owners of the NHL's Washington's Capitals, Bruce Levenson and Ed Peskowitz, along with Todd Foreman. 
Belkin owns a third by him­self. He will concentrate on the Hawks, while the Washington­based group-with its hockey experience -and Seydel will work with the Thrashers. 
Peskowitz will be primarily responsible for Philips Arena, both as a sports and concert venue. 
....•:..•}.•/:··>·············(.•.,..•...,.,>-.}..........,•.•.......•..
••~ 0 0 0 ~ ~ ~ 0 G ~ 0 s 0 0 ~ ~ ~ 
} .... · 
=::;::· 
• Why spend the winter months in South • Bend when you could be studying in... • 

• 

• . 
• .
•. • 
• . •
• . • 
• . ·. Brazill • 
•. •. 
Learn more about opportunities in Brazil . by attending an information session on April 1, 2004 at 5:00pm in 231 DBRT 
. . . 
Application deadline for Spring '05 is 
May 1, 2004

• . • . 
• 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud
• • . 
. .·:·:· 
:\:­

,Ii 
! 
j 
' 
I 
( ! 
( I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
( 
! 
! I l !! 
iI ~ t ~ I 
I 
! ~ 
~ 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Gene Keady saga at Purdue doesn't appear to be ending any time soon. 
Purdue sports information director Elliot Bloom said the school doesn't expect to make an announcement about Keady's future until after the NCAA 
/ championship game AprilS. Purdue officials were not com­menting late last week in an attempt to keep attention focused on the women's team in the NCAA tournament. That stance was rendered moot when the Boilermakers lost to Georgia on Saturday. Bloom said Keady planned to attend the Final Four in San Antonio. So is University of San Francisco athletic director Bill Hogan, who will spend his time there interviewing candidates for the Dons' coaching position. The job opened when Phillip Mathews was fired earlier this month. Hogan would not comment on specific candidates Monday, but said any delay by Keady and Purdue would not factor into his decision. "We're moving forward with our whole process here," Hogan told The Associated Press. ''I've 
-------. ------------· . -----·---~ 


OUNDTHE 
ATION 
Tuesday, March 30, 2004 Coi\1PILED FROJ\t Tn_E OBSERVER'S \VIlli SERVtCEs page 19 

around the dial 
NBA 

Golden State at Philadelphia, 7 p.m., Comcast Indiana at Milwa~kee, 8 p.m., NBA TV 
NHL 

NY Rangers at New Jersey, 7:30 p.m., FOX Sports Edmonton at St. Louis, 8 p.m., FOX Sports 
MLB 

St. Louis at Baltimore, 1:05 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL 


Associated Press before Colorado played Los ing into assault charges her the 20 minutes before Angeles. "I don't know against him. He also must or after he was struck ­DENVER -Wearing a whether I'll be able to play apply to NHL commission­his first memory was lying in the medical room in
brace from his chin to his again, but I remain opti­er Gary Bettman for rein­chest, Steve Moore walked mistic. I'm more fortunate statement before he can Vancouver's arena. into a news conference just to be alive and to take play again. "I can't explain how Monday and said he does­one day at a time." Moore has not spoken to scary it is to wake up to a n't remember the hit that Moore sustained two Bertuzzi and avoided ques­nightmare," he said. ''I'm knocked him out for the broken vertebrae, a con­tions about his punish­playing a game and the 
season -and might have cussion and cuts on his ment, but did say the hit next thing I know I'm lying ended his NHL career. face when Bertuzzi was over the line. in a room with medical 
The Colorado Avalanche punched him from behind "I think that type of stuff personnel standing over forward still has a red welt and·drove his head into doesn't have any place in me. I have a neck brace on under his right eye, but the ice. The hit was the game," he said. "We and having my equipment wore a broad smile while believed to be retaliation have a tremendous game, cut off of me, and I am speaking to the media for for a check by Moore in this game of hockey, and I strapped down and really the first time since February that knocked think this incident has have no idea on what was Vancouver's Todd Bertuzzi Canucks star Markus made the image of this going on. It was pretty sucker-punched him dur­Nasland out for three game suffer. That's unfor­scary" . ing a game on March 8. games. tunate and I sincerely hope "Since that game in 
"I feel very fortunate to Bertuzzi was suspended nothing like this ever hap­Vancouver, my main con­be able to be here today, to for the rest of the season pens again." cern has just been to be able to walk in here," and playoffs, and Moore doesn't recall regain my full health and the 25-year-old Moore said Vancouver police are look-being punched or remem-take one day at a time." 
IN BRIEF 

Holtz. suffers broken leg at Griffey sustains calf injury Yankees and Tampa Bay Devil Rays practice during spring training got ready to begin the regular sea­
COLUMBIA, S.C. -Coach Lou Ken Griffey Jr. was hoping to stay son. Holtz vowed to become more healthy all spring. He didn't quite IUPUI will not renew involved next season in South make it. hoops coach's contract Carolina's offense, but nobody The Cincinnati outfielder strained INDIANAPOLIS -IUPUI will not expected him to break a leg doing it. his right calf while running out a renew the contract of women's bas­
Holtz sustained a hairline fracture groundball Monday night and left the ketball coach Kris Simpson, athletic to his lower left leg Saturday while Reds' game against Pittsburgh in director Michael Moore said Monday. watching the offense practice goal­Sarasota, Fla., as a precaution. Simpson's contract expires June line situations, the university said In each of the last three seasons, 30. She had a record of 97-148 in Monday. Griffey sustained a major injury in nine seasons coaching the Jaguars, 
Holtz, who was Notre Dame's the final week of spring training or including a 7-21 mark last season. coach from 1986 to 1996, was the first week of the regular season. Simpson has guided the program crouched down when running back Last year, he dislocated his shoulder since its inception in 1995-96. Cory Boyd inadvertently knocked in the fifth game of the season, "We appreciate Coach Simpson's him over. returned and tore up his right ankle. efforts to grow with the IUPUI 
The 6 7 -year-old coach jumped He then had surgery for both women's basketball program," 
right back up and continued prac­injuries. Moore said in a written statement. tice, but later learned the extent of Griffey played the field as the "However, with the conclusion of the his injury. The tibia doesn't bear Pirates batted in the second inning, coach's contract we have the oppor­weight, however, so Holtz and his then left the game. He jogged off the tunity to engage new leadership to sore leg were back on the practice field accompanied by a trainer. make the Jaguars more competitive field Sunday. Half a world away, the New York in the Mid-Continent Conference." 
nr page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS
\ ~ 
\ 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
~ 
\<, 
\1, 
I~ \\ ~ Tiebreakers no help to Irish
lr, 
i ~ 
By ANN LOUGHERY ..... Sports Writer 
\ 
Those pesky tiebreakers ~ ~ proved to be the bane of Notre I Dame's existence. 
~~ 
\ No. 33 Wake Forest (9-7) 
\ 
and No. 9 North Carolina (14­
\ \ 6) cornered the No. 23 Irish (8-5) in several close matches
~ 
this weekend, forcing a deci­
t 
\· sion in tiebreaking matches. 
\< 
\• Ultimately, however, the Irish 
i· \, were defeated by the Demon_ Deacons 7-0 and the Tar Heels 5-0.
~ 
"We didn't play all that well 
~~ 
in both matches, but they 
~~ 
\ were definite­
\ \-ly closer than "We didn't play all that had a pretty 
\ \ they looked," . consistent year 
\ coach Jay wellzn both matches, and it's good to \i Louderback buttheywere see them win." <. ~aid. "They definetely closer than In singles, No. JUSt couldn't h . 22 Coetzee col­
Jl 
win in tight t ey loQked. They JUSt 
lected a quick matches." couldn't win in tight win overlr A dogged matches.·· Christian 
Wake Forest Thompson at ( came pre-No. 2 6-0, 6-3.\ I pared to Jay Louderback At No. 1, Salas 
(­

make a state­Irish coach dropped her 
m e n t

~~ 
Saturday,

)) 
~: 
sweeping singles and claiming wins in two of the three dou­
bles matches. The Demon
~) 
Deacons were fresh off of a 4­H 3 win against North Carolina 
,,\ 
,, on Wednesday and seemed 
!: poised for another win after such an upset, according to Louderback. 
"With the way they've been playing this season, they're probably better than North Carolina, who has a better ranking," he said. 
f 
At No. 3 doubles, junior Sarah Jane Connelly and sophomore Kiki Stastny were the first to finish, finding defeat in their match against Karin Coetzee and Liz Proctor 8-1. Ashlee Davis and Katie Martzolf secured the doubles point for Wake Forest after a hard-fought match against No. 1 doubles freshmen Catrina and Christian Thompson. 
(: In each loss this season, the Irish have relinquished the doubles point. Louderback believes losing the doubles
,t, 
) ~· 
( I 
I 
Need a job?

I 
I 
Like working with computers? 
i I l 
Like helping your 
fellow classmates?

,.. 
Are you known as guru" among your 
point set the tone for the rest of the match. 
"The doubles point is so important because it gives the kids momentum for singles," he said. "We played hard in doubles; it was just a matter of pulling out big matches." 
Senior co-captain Alicia Salas and sophomore Lauren Connelly posted the only win of the match for the Irish, bestin-g Danielle Schwartz and Aimee Smith 8-3 at No. 2 dou­bles. This season, the pair is 9-4 in dual match play and 15-6 overall. 
"They really played well against Wake," Louderback said. "They've 
first match on 
the weekend against Davis 6-3, 6-1. The No. 10 Salas is 22-9 this sea­son and 10-3 in dual-match play. 
At No. 4 singles, Proctor secured the win for Wake Forest, edging out Lauren Connelly 7-5, 7-6, (7-2). 
Although at No. 5 Stastny won her first set, Schwartz returned with renewed energy to win 5-7, 6-2, 6-3. Martzolf followed suit at No. 3 singles against No. 92 Catrina Thompson 6-7 (8-6), 7-6, (7­4), 1-0 (11-9). 
Smith rounded out the Demon Deacons' win with a 6­4, 7-5 win over Liz Donohue at No. 6 singles. 
On Sunday, North Carolina collected wins in each of the singles and doubles matches completed. The Irish were forced to abandon two of the last singles matches due to time constraints. 
No. 23 Aniela Mojzis and Kendall Cline gave the Tar Heels an early 1-0 lead by 


Distibuted Support Services within the 
Office of Information Technologies has the 
following positions available: 
ResNet Computing Assistant (8
-~ 
Positions) Staff Assistant (2 Positions) 
(We are in desperate need of an individual with a Mac.intosh background for one Staff Assistant position) 
'/
·, 
We're waiting for your 
application! 
! 
Apply online at : www.nd.edu/-rccs/resapp.htm Que•tiona? Call Pamela at 
631-84l7 

~ . 
i !~ 

UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
OFFICE OF lNPOKMATION TECHNOLOGIES 
the "computer friends? 
defeating Catrina and Christian Thompson 8-4 at No. 1. At No. 3, North Carolina clinched the doubles point following Sara Anundsen and Jenna Long's 8­3 win versus senior Emily Neighbours and sophomore Kristina Stastny. 
Lee Bairos and Kendrick Bunn added to the Tar Heels' success, posting a win against Salas and Lauren Connelly 8-6 at No.2. 
Bunn was next to contribute a point for North Carolina, tri­umphing over Stastny 6-1, 6-2 at No. 5. No. 29 Mojzis was next off the courts pulling off a 6-4, 6-1 upset of No. 10 Salas at No. 1. Clinching the win at No. 4 was the Tar Heels' Anundsen, garnering a win against Lauren Connelly 6-2, 6-3. At No. 6, Long beat Sarah Jane Connelly 6-2, 4-6, 6-2. 
The Irish abandoned the matches at Nos. 2 and 3 due to time constraints. At No. 3 Catrina Thompson held a lead against Cline in a tiebreaker . {7-4) and left the match tied at 3-3. Christian, meanwhile, also led her match against Bairos 6-1, 4-6, 3-2. 
"All of the kids were pretty upset after this weekend's meets knowing we didn't get two wins when we had the opportunity," Louderback said. "They're a very competi­tive group and they don't like to lose." 
The Irish are set to meet Marquette Saturday and No. 15 Miami Sunday. 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu · 

Tuesday, March 30, 2004 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles victory ends 7-game losing sfl:eak 
innings. Libby Wilhemly threw a 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 

one hitter, striking out two and 
Sporrs Writer 

walking none while facing just two batters over the minimum. 
After seven straight losses, the Walsh again went 3-for-3, with Belles finally got what they need­a double, a triple and three RBis, ed Monday as they took both making her 6-for-6 on the after­games from Tri-State by the noon. Laura Heline went 2-for-2, scores of 4-3 and 10-0. with two runs scored. 
Coming off two tough losses Coming off her team's loss 
last  weekend  Thursday  
against Alma ­a team who has dominated its  "'We need to have a sense ofurgency and a killer  against Purdue-North Central, Belles  
opponents all  instinct. We haven't had  coach  Anna  
season long -the Belles (7­11) rebounded  either yet. but I know they have it inside them  Welsh seemed patient that the Belles would  
and  played  somewhere. Once they  turn it around  
solid ball, espe­cially in their five-inning  show it, we are capable for great things.,  once they clicked. "We need to  
blowout  in  have a sense of  
Monday's later  Anna Walsh  urgency and a  
game.  Belles Coach  killer instinct,"  

In the first game of the doubleheader, Saint Mary's and Tri-State were tied until Kate Sajewich singled in Bridget Grall for the game-winning run. Marnie Walsh starred offensively for the Belles going 3-for-3 with a run scored in the game. Erin Sullivan added two hits. The Belles as a team had 12 hits off Tri-State pitcher Erin Brockert. 
Sajewich pitched well for the Belles, giving up three runs on six hits over seven innings. She struck out six and walked none. 
In the second game, the Belles simply dominated Tri-State in every facet of the sport, outplay­ing them to a 10-0 victory in five 
Welsh said. 
"We haven't had either yet, but I know they have it inside them somewhere. Once they show it, we are capa­ble of great things." · 
The pair of wins Monday could be exactly what Welsh was talk­ing about. 
The Belles will need to carry the momentum from Monday's victories Wednesday when they travel to Albion for their first away league games of the year. They will face a team with a 2-0 MIAA record and who is 8-4 overall. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 


The Spring Run 
A Benefitfor "'Rebuuiddng Together with Christmas In Aprir' 

2 MlLl 
\VALIS 
-

-Saturday, April3, 2004 
11:00 A.M. Stepan Center 


T-Shirts to aU Finishers Register in Advance at RecSports $6.00 In Advance or $8.00 Day of Race Advance Registration Begins 3/25, Ends @ 5:00 p.m. 4/2 Student and Staff Divisions 

~~:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Tuesday, March 30, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Practice 
continued from page 24 
on  April  24  at Notre  Dame  
Stadium.  
Beginning  on  day  one,  

Willingham wanted his team starting with the basics and working with the knowledge that every practice matters. 
"We just want to get started and get back," Willingham said. "We want to come out and always have a great deal of intensity, and we want to hustle· and do all the things a good foot­ball team does from a fundamen­tal standpoint. It's been more fundamentals today than any­thing else." 
The senior leadership and Willingham are on the same page. Senior linebackers Derek Curry and Mike Goolsby view the spring as a time to improve on the little things that will make summer workouts and practices leading up to the season that much more productive. 
"Our goal is definitely to be more fundamentally sound," senior linebacker Derek Curry said. "Last year, we played good at times, but if we had been more fundamentally sound we could have played well across the board all the time. That's one thing the spring really is for ... you have time to get back to the basics." 
Goolsby, who sat out last sea­son due to injury, understands a team coming off a rough season needs to begin its basic prepara­tion in the spring. 
"Every time you have kind of an off-season or anything bad happens, you try to get back where you'd like to be," he said. "You start from the bottom up. One of the things coach talked about earlier, especially defen­sively, was getting that attitude back that we had a couple years ago; getting everybody to the ball and making big plays. And if you 
start with that attitude, that's a 
good starting point." 
On the offensive side of the 
ball, quarterback Brady Quinn 
stepped onto the field and ­
while not a seasoned veteran ­
took charge of an offense as a 
second-year starter. 
"I think we expect more of each other," he said. "Though it's the first day of practice, we expect to execute and get our job done. So a lot of that comes with experience." 
The Irish return fourteen starters, with eight on offense and six coming back on defense, including Curry, Goolsby and Quinn. Spring practice starts early, however, and the taste of a 5-7 season in the mouths of these and all of the players still lingers. 
"If you're a competitor it's still going to be there," senior run­ning back Ryan Grant said. "That's ·obviously a motivation for next year. But at the same time, you've got to be able to move forward and realize that we don't need that to happen again. So I think we're going about the right steps and doing what we need to do." 
Remembering last season can· cause players to become anx­ious, but the senior leadership on this Irish team has shown its face on the first day of spring practice and helped the team remain focused on the task at hand, on the important stuff-on the fundamentals. 
"It's really hard to kind of take it a day at a time, but that's real­ly what you have to do," Curry said. "We have a lot of expecta­tions, but we do know that each and every day of the spring mat­ters and we have to take that attitude. 
"We can't look at Michigan yet. We can't look at summer work­outs. We have to look each day [at what] we do now." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Wednesday March 31, 2004 
At Frank Eck Stadium 
At 5: OS pm, stop by to watch the 6th-ranked Irish baseball team battle Western Michigan: Admission is free for all ND students. For additional tickets, call 631-7456. 

latnla•llbllllcs....BE TIEIEI 

PAMELA LOCK/The Observer Quarterback Brady Quinn calls out signals during practice Monday. Quinn Is one of fourteen starters returning to the Irish In 2004. 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles look to build offweekend 
By STEVE COYER 
Sports Writer 
After two convincing victories in a home tournament over the weekend, Saint Mary's will go on the road to face MIAA oppo­nent Alma College today. 
In their first match against Tri-State, Saint Mary's came out 

Notre Dame Athletics Wednesday March 31, 2004 #15 NO vs. Ohio State@ 4:oopm 
Men's Lacrosse GOLD GAMEl (Moose Krause Field) 
FREE ADMISSION for everyone and Free Gold GamesT-shirts for the first 130 fans, sponsored by Aeropostc:sle. 
Also, the first 150 fans get a Notre Dame Gumball Machine, sponsored by Famous Dave's and are invited to a pre-game Famous Dave's Tailgating Party! 


with a 7-0 sweep. In the cham­pionship match, Aquinas fell to the Belles by a score of 8-1 to give Saint Mary's the decisive victory. 
The .Belles have won nine matches already this season and will look for their third straight MIAA victory against Alma. In a match last year against Alma, the Belles dominated and recorded a 9-0 sweep. 
Against Alma the Belles will continue to rely on the strong play of Kate Bowler, Kaitlin 
Cutler,  Kristen  Palombo,  
Jeannie  Knish  and  Kris  
Spriggle.  

Over the weekend, the doubles team Cutler and Spriggle defeat­ed Aquinas 8-3, bringing their overall record of the year to 9-1. 
In singles play, Cutler contin­ued her success by nearly sweeping both of her singles matches and finished the week­end at 11-1 overall. 
In addition to her win in the doubles match against Aquinas, Bowler also won 6-0 in both sets while facing Tri-State in singles. The victory brings her singles record to 7-3 this season. 
Knish and Palombo played at Nos. 1 and 2 respectively for the team and both pulled out victo­ries against Aquinas after long matches. 
Junior Undsey Thelen returns as the top player for Alma this season. Thelen lost to Knish in both the regular season and the MIAA tournament. 
Saint Mary's will play at Alma today at 3 p.m. The Belles play their next home match on Friday. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 

Tuesday, March 30, 2004 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
State's Anna Garina by a 15-quicker opponent. After trail­Mountaineers, allowing just 
game shutout of the 
10 margin in the finals. ing 12-10, Kryczalo won the
Baseball Fencing 

All four women, however, next four points to put herself sophomore improved to 4-1 on 
six hits. With the win, the 
barely made it to their on the brink of the finals. But
continued from page 24continued from page 24 

the year. 
respective title bouts. In the Leahy battled back to 14-14, In the bottom half of the With a 2-0 Irish lead in the 
in 2003. But given the choice, foil semi-finals, Ament faced forcing a next-touch-wins sit­inning, the Irish evaded a seventh, Notre Dame designat­
she wanted to face her team­Ohio State's Hanna uation. Kryczalo scored it scare themselves as the ed hitter Steve Andres doubled 
mate in the finals. Thompson who had been lit­and advanced. Mountaineers put runners on his team's lead with a two-run 
"It's the best-case scenario tle trouble for Ament in her Providenza also faced a 14­second and third with one out. triple to secure the Irish victo­
because if we have to fence 5-2 round-robin win. 14 score against Ohio State's Needing only one run for the ry. 
earlier then we won't be first Thompson, however, looked Louise Bond-Williams but win, West Virginia then Irish right-hander Grant 
and second [and] that's what ready for revenge and only after she had emerged attempted a squeeze play to Johnson -still rehabbing 
we wanted," Ament said. jumped on Ament for a 5-1 from a 14-12 deficit. But she bring the runner home, but from Tommy John surgery ­
Following in Kryczalo)s lead and led by a 5-2 score at capped her comeback, scor­Edwards fielded the ball got the start for Notre Dame 
footsteps, freshman Valerie the second intermission. But ing the final touch and cleanly and got the runner out Sunday but was on a planned 
Providenza won the sabre Ament put together a furious clinching an appearance in at home. The next batter lined pitch count and worked only 
title in her first national rally, storming back to score the finals. out to Matt Macri at third base two innings. Senior Joe 
championships, only the fifth four of the next five touches "Someone taught me that to end the inning. Thaman came on in the third 
Notre Dame freshman (and to force sudden death over­when you do 15-touch bouts, The Irish took the lead for and held the Mountaineers to 
first sabre} to do so. She time. think of it as always zero­good in the 10th as Lopez dou­one run on one hit in five 
avenged her loss to Sophia She was awarded the prior­zero," Providenza said. "Then bled in Cody Rizzo from sec­innings to pick up the win. 
Hiss during the round-robin ity and would win in the you don't [think] 'Oh my ond. They added an insurance Lopez continued his hot hit­
bouts by defeating Hiss in the event of time expiring with­gosh, I'm down.' I was pretty run as Sollmann hit a sacrifice ting with a 3-for-4 perform­
gold medal bout by a score of out a touch, but she did not nervous but I knew I was bet­fly to score Lopez, who had ance to improve his average to 
15-8. Providenza never need it. Ament scored the ter." 
' \ moved to third on a .411 on the season. Sollmann 
trailed and claimed the last next touch and advanced into There were no dramatic Mountaineer fielding error. also had an important two-run 
six touches to clinch the win. the finals. scoring swings in Walton's Irish pitcher Jeff Samardzija blast to give the Irish a 3-1 
"It hasn't really hit me yet," Kryczalo's bout was a polar semifinal against Cornell's got the win in relief for the lead in the fifth. 
she said. "I'm just kind of in opposite. In a much faster Meghan Phair but there was Irish, his first of the season, The Irish return to action 
shock right now, just assum­bout, she had no worries of sudden death overtime. and Ryan Doherty recorded his Wednesday when they host 
ing I have another tourna­overtime but had to ward off There, too, the Irish pre­fourth save of the season. Western Michigan at Frank 
ment tomorrow." a comeback from Jessica vailed as Walton became the In the nightcap of the double Eck Stadium at 5 p.m. 
Epeeist Kerry Walton closed Leahy. Leahy, who had hand­fourth Notre Dame finalist. header, the story was all Tom 
out the women's competition ed Kryczalo her only loss in Thornton. The big Irish left­Contact Chris Federico at 
with a silver medal finish. Friday's round robin, provid­Contact Matt Mooney at bander notched a complete cfederic@nd.edu 
The senior lost to Wayne ed problems as a smaller, mmooney@nd.edu 
Golf 
continued from page 24 

at 80, Bellino shooting 89 and Simmerman recording a 79. 
Simmerman's scoring average of 82.50 strokes per round leads the team on the season. 
This was the first time Fantom competed among the top five golfers, according to Hamilton. 
"She was a little nervous at first, but then started to get back into the groove and got her com­petitive mind going," Hamilton said. 
; ' . ' On the second day, the Belles totaled 347 strokes to round out the competition. Simmerman garnered an 82, Dunham scored 84, Fantom finished with 90, Hanlon followed with 91, and Bellino ended her round with 98. 


t "The course played a little tougher on the second day,"
I ~ Hamilton said. "We didn't have very good short games, but l was impressed with the ball striking 
d: 
. I ' (( ' during the meet." This invitational was a learning experience for Saint Mary's. 
Hamilton described it as an 
opportunity to identify areas foriH improvement and to compete ~ I ·, against larger teams. 
L: He said that the Belles will pri­t marily focus on their short
I 
games in preparation for the 
next meet and for the rest of the 
season.

I 
il 
I "We just need to get outside
~ ~ 
more for practice," Hamilton~ { said. "We should be able to put 
( ' 
I any five of our players in the lineup and do well. In practice,
' 
r I we're really going to be asking our players to step up. They 
I . should be ready to compete at 
any time." The Belles head to Quincy
jl
I College April 5 and 6. 
( ( 
Contact Ann Loughery at

~ 
( 
alougher@nd.edu 

~ ~ ~ 
~ ~ ;
' ) 
~ ; ; 
' I 



~~~~~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Tuesday, March 30, 2004 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
DOCTOR DOGBER T SHOW SHOULDN'T YOU LISTEN TO MY STORY BEFORE
YOUR PROBLEM IS PASSING JUDGMENT?
THAT YOU'RE A LAZY I SELFISH I IMMORAL MORON. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
~ ~ I'M ADDING :t; "TIME-~STER • ~ TO THE LIST. 
...... 
YOU'RE LIKE
~ ----­
A MIRACLE WORKER I 
\. 

FIVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 

JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
CYKAT 
j

I I r (] 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NAYRE 
± 

www.jurmle.com 

J 1· r J I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKEARGIRION 
I've got to get out of here. I'm going nuts 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

An~r= "[ I I I J' rI I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: FINAL ONION LOTION INFUSEYesterday's I 
Answer: What Mom faced when she ran out of window cleaner -NO "SOLUTION" 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  37 Yalies  71 Withhold from  
1 Like some appli­ances, electri­cally 5 Field of work 9 Daft 14 Bailiwick 15 Gossip tidbit  39 Slangy denial 42 Protein bean 43 Freeze over 45 Self-identifying word 47 "All Things Considered"  72 Hot Springs and others DOWN 1 Sounds of relief 2 Canadian native 3 Subject of an  
16 Wahine's wei­ network  insurance  
come  48 Auto trailblazer  appraisal  
17 Auto trailblazer 19 Eatery · 20 Small sofa 21 "Drat!"  52 Slip on the gal­ley 53 Dead against 54 Little shaver  4 OPEC is one 5 Emergency need at sea 6 Skater Midori  
23 Wrap up 24 Ltr. holders 26 First course, often  57 Suffragist Carrie 59 Plays the role of 63 Geologic period  7 Dork 8 Ellipsis alterna­tive 9 Villains  
28 Auto trailblazer 34 Kid­(Saturday a.m. fare) 35 "The Thin Man" canine  65 What 17-, 28­and 48-Across were, so to speak 67 Alphabet set 68 Director Kazan  10 Poetry-spouting pugilist 11 Muscle quality 12 Ergo 13 Prison exercise area  
36 Operation at the  69 Equestrian's grip  18 Gossipmonger  34 Bride hider  49 Reviewer of  58 Scrabble  
Alamo 70 Camera setting ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  22 Here-there con­nector 25 Young lady of Sp. 27 Trident-shapedletters  38 Spades or clubs 40 Explosive star 41 Refuse admis­sion to  books, for short 50 Place of rapid growth 51 Soda bottle units 54 Fall faller  piece 60 Trickle 61 Inter 62 Workers' ID's 64 Sound in a barn  
28 Radioer's "Good as done!" 29 Toulouse "Toodle-oo"  44 Prep mentally 46 Lumberjack's first cut  55 Gibbons and gorillas 56 "Go ahead!"  rafter 66 Martini ingredi­ent  
30 "The Cider  

For answers, call 1-900-289-CLUE (289-2583), $1 .20 aHouse Rules" minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5550.
co-star, 1999 Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday31 Sierra crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
32 Land from Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000which Moses past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). came Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
33 Bring up solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Eric Clapton, Paul Reiser, Warren Beatty, Tracy Chapman 
Happy Birthday: Don't let your stubbornness stand in the way of your success. You will have to admit to your mistakes in order to get ahead. This will be a year of change and you must take things as they come if you don't want to miss opportunities. Open your eyes and mind to new ideas and ways of doing things and everything else will fall into place. Your numbers: 2, 8, 12, 17, 35, 44 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Help those who can't help themselves. You may want to get involved in investments. Be careful not to overextend yourself. Romantic partners will be most accommodating.**** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You and your mate may not see things eye to eye. Make sure that you aren't just being stubborn for the sake of arguing. Get involved in projects that require time and energy. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may be questioning your direction in life. The possibility of lacking the educational credits to follow your dream is likely. Consider getting what you need through night courses. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get involved in events that include children or good friends. Be prepared for a hectic but fun-filled day. You will be admired by those less talented when it comes to helping others. **** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Opposition from your family is likely if you haven't been honest or doing your chores dependably. You may want to make amends by doing something special.*** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let anyone stand in your way; go after your goals. Your opinions may change due to new friends you have made and books you have read. You are open to suggestions. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Clear up important legalities. Look over your papers and make family decisions. Minor health problems may crop up if you haven't had sufficient rest. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You should relax and let yourself go. Exciting romantic connections can be made if you're willing to let down your guard. Travel and entertainment should be on your agenda.**** SAGITTARIDS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Consider making changes with regard to your profession. You will be able to help others sort out their problems if you 
are willing to listen. Reevaluate your motives. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Competitive sports will allow you to vent. You are probably frustrated with your life right now and you certainly need a constructive outlet. Don't put money into risky investments. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may be a little difficult to live with. Residential moves will be favorable in the long run; however, the initial stages will be hectic. Don't count on getting help.** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Get involved in physical activities. You should make plans to do things with family or close friends. Don't take on more than you can handle or exhaustion will result. *** 
Birthday Baby: You make a warm and helpful friend. Your family will be proud of your ability to be patient and giving to others. You'll be devoted to learning and teaching throughout your life. You're a giver when it comes to 
-
dealing with others, but you're also smart enough not to be talcen advantage of. 
Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers.. who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable· to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City __________ State ____ Zip__________ 



Tuesday, March 30, 2004 
FOOTBALL 
Back on the field 
Irish focusing on 
fundamentals in 
spring practice 
\ ( By PAT LEONARD . '; ; Associate Sports Editor 
' 

Defensive line coach Greg Mattison was ready to hike the football on a ball pursuit drill when he noticed a defensive player ready in an incorrect stance. 
"Get set," he said. 

The player adjusted himself and readjusted. Mattison refused to resume his count at quarter­

. ' back until every player was set. The drill dragged on, and before he could hike the ball, a whistle blew. 
Head coach Tyrone Willingham stepped towards the action, took the whistle out of his mouth and made it simple. 
"Run it again," he said. 

The Irish started spring prac­tice with the first of 15 practices Monday afternoon at the Loftus Sports Complex. The team will practice into the month of April and will end spring football with the annual Blue-and-Gold game 
see PRACTICE/page 21 


page 24 
SMC GOLF 

Belles finish 
14th in 

Kentucky 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's finished in 14th place at last weekend's Northern Kentucky invitational, with a two day total of 678. DePauw took first place with 612 strokes. 
"Some of the teams we hadn't competed against before. They had lots of low scores," coach Mark Hamilton said. "On the sec­ond day, we didn't compete as well and that put us down on the ladder." 
Junior Stefanic Simmerman led the Belles with a 35th place finish, followed by junior Chrissy Dunham at 46th, senior Liz Hanlon at 72nd, sophomore Kirsten Fantom at 89th and sophomore Nicole Bellino at 90th. 
Saint Mary's fared better the first day compared to the follow­ing day, with a team total of 331. Nearly all of the golfers topped their best scores of the season, with Hanlon posting 83, Dunham 
see GOLF/page 22 

FENCING 
Individuals dominate NCAAs for Irish 
By MATT MOONEY Spans Writer 
WALTHAM, Mass. -Unlike last year, the sum of the indi­vidual parts proved greater than the whole at the 2004 fencing national champi­onships Sunday at Brandeis University. The individual competition proved very suc­cessful for the Irish, as the team totaled four gold and sil­ver medal performances and one third-place medalist. 
On the men's side Michal Sobieraj placed third individu­ally, a year after he finished as the epee runner-up. After losing to Benjamin Bratton from St. John's 15-13 in the semifinals, he defeated Ohio State's Denis Tolkachev in the third place bout by a 15-8 score to take the bronze medal. 
For the women, the individ­ual success was historic. Notre Dame qualified four fencers to compete in all three weapons, Alicja Kryczalo and Andrea Ament in foil, Valerie Providenza in sabre and Kerry Walton in epee. Of the three weapons, the Irish women boasted two national champi­ons and two runners-up with at least one in each weapon. No women's team in NCAA history had ever posted final­ists in all three weapons prior to Friday. 
Kryczalo 's win marked her third foil championship in as many years, defeating team­mate Ament in the title bout by a 15-7 score. She becomes only the second woman in NCAA history to win three titles in any weapon since Penn State's Olga Kalinovskaya won four foil championships from 1993-96. 
Ament, the other half of the talented "A-Team," finished in the top three for the third time in her career, taking sec­ond to Krvczalo also in 2002 and winning the bronze medal 
see FENCING/page 22 
BASEBALl 

Irish sweep Big East series 

By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior StaffWriter 
The Irish got off to a torrid start in Big East play with a three-game sweep of West Virginia on the road in Morgantown, W.V. 
Notre Dame (17-3, 3-0), now ranked as high as No. 5 by Collegiate Base ball Newspaper, topped the home­standing Mountaineers (8-13, 0-3) 5-3 and 4-0 in a double­header Saturday and closed out the sweep with a 6-2 vic­tory Sunday. 
The opener of the series Saturday -originally sched­uled for seven innings ­would take 10 innings to be settled. Irish right-hander Chris Niese} led the way ·on the mound for Notre Dame and worked seven innings, holding the Mountaineers to three runs on seven hits. 
The Irish pulled ahead 2-1 in the top of the fifth when second baseman Steve Sollmann -who broke out of an offensive slump with a 5­for-11 weekend against West 
SMC TENNIS 
The Be1les go on the road to face Alma in a MIAA match today at 3 p.m. 
page 21 


Virginia -got the scoring started with a triple to the centerfield wall. Designated hitter Matt Bransfield and first baseman Matt Edwards followed with a pair of RBI doubles. 
In the bottom half of the inning, West Virginia reclaimed the lead with a pair of runs of its own. The Irish came right back in the top of the sixth to tie the game at 3-3. 
MEN'S HOOPS 
Duke is back in the Final Four after a three-year absence. 
page 16 
NHL 

The league approves the $250 million sale of the Atlanta Thrashers. 
page 18 
Notre Dame had a chance to put the game away in the eighth, as shortstop Greg Lopez and outfielder Craig Cooper put together consecu­tive one-out singles. Centerfielder Danny Dressman then walked to load the bases. But with just one out, Sollmann grounded into an inning-ending double play to end the threat. 
see BASEBALL/page 22 
NHL 

Steven Moore makes his first public appear­ance since Todd Bertuzzi's hit that knocked Moore out for the season. 
page 19 

SMC SOFTBALL NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Two wins against Tri-The Irish are shut out State over the weekend in two matches against snapped a seven-game Wake Forest and North losing streak. Carolina. 
page 20 page 20 





