
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 51 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 11,2004 
Right to Life crosses reappear 
Group repeats display due to vandalism 

ROTC commemorates Veterans Day 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
As Notre Dame students walk ori North Quad this Veterans Day, the presence of four ROTC members standing silently at Clarke Memorial Fountain will remind them of the men and women who have risked their lives in battle. 
Members of the Army, Navy and Air Force ROTC units began their annual Veterans Day vigil at 4:30 
p.m. Wednesday. For the fol­lowing 24 hours, four ROTC members will stand guard at Clarke Memorial Fountain to commemorate fallen sol-
An Army ROTC cadet stands guard at Stonehenge Wednesday night. The Veterans Day vigil began at 4:30 p.m. Wednesday and will conclude at 4:30 p.m. today. see VETERANS/page 8 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
SENATE 
Ticket exchange approved 
Program instituted to resolve problems 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 
Senators approved a resolution for a men's basketball ticket exchange program and dis­cussed an amendment to the student union constitution that changes election rules at Student Senate Wednesday. 
One week after concerns about the men's basketball ticket distri­bution were discussed at Senate, the university affairs committee came bq,ck with a resolution that would help resolve the problem of connecting students with unused tickets to those without. 
Zahm senator Mike McGinley presented the resolution, speak­ing-to the importance of swift implementation. 
"The faster we get tickets into the hands of students and those students fill up empty seats at games, the better," McGinley said. 
The Ticket Share Program works with residence halls to provide a central location for students to exchange extra tick­ets. Ifhall governments decide to take advantage of the optional program, student government will provide a banner that has a "give" and "take" section for each game, with space for the 
see SENATE/page 6 

By TERESA FRALISH 
News Writer 
In response to vandalism directed at the Right to Life Club's white cross demonstra­tion in October, the group has chosen to display the crosses on South Quad again, from Wednesday to Friday. 
Right to Life co-president Janel Daufenbach said the club decided to repeat the cross demonstration to bring the issue of abortion to promi­nence on campus. 
"We put them up to remind people of the truth of abor­tion," said Daufenbach. "The cemetery got torn down, and we don't think people can hide from the truth." 
When the club organized the first demonstration in early October, about 900 of 1,200 crosses were knocked down during the night. 
This display marks the first year the cross demonstration has taken place more than once during a scho.ol year. Previously, Right to Life set up the crosses for one day during 
see CEMETERY/page 8 




Food services survey for changes 
Dining halls look for student opinions 
By NICOLE ZOOK News Writer 
Well-known for efforts to 
improve campus life, this month 
stuchmts will have their chance 
to upgrade at least the quality 
of the food served in the dining 
halls. as establishments on both 
campuses conduct satisfaction 
surveys. 
Last week, Saint Mary's Food Services distributed about 300 surveys in the Noble Family Dining Hall so students could provide opinions on issues ranging from the food served to the cleanliness of the facility. Notre Dame will also send out online surveys to students later this month. 
Saint Mary's Food Services director Barry Bowles said he personally gave the survey to students as they left the build­ing and looks forward to seeing the results. 
"We take the "Surveys and send them out to be tabulated. ... We won't have the results for about two weeks," he said. "I already know not everybody is happy with what we do, and that's why I don't look at the surveys before we send them in." 
Bowles said the surveys would be extremely useful this year, as large numbers of stu­dents participated. Last year, 17 percent of the student popula­tion provided results. This year, he estimates about 30 percent of students filled out surveys. 
"We review them. and if it's something I can change, we change it," he said. 
South Dining Hall general manager Marc Poklinkowski also said gauging student reac­tion is important to food servic­es. 
"A lot of the things that we do are based on student reac­tions," he said. "We're going to be doing Ia survey] in November, and I think this will be the first year we're going to do a second one to see how opinions change." 
Based on previous surveys, Notre Dame has extended din­ing hall hours, included new menu items, increased vegetari­an and vegan options and changed from an 8-day menu rotation to a 12-day cycle. 
"We noticed that once we started [the surveys], freshmen and sophomores liked South Dining Hall's variety, but our ratings weren't as high with juniors and seniors," Poklinkowski said. "Now, instead of things showing up 28 times a year, it's down to 19. That's cutting 33 percent of repetition out of our menus." 
North and South Dining Halls each serve around 2,300 stu­dents per meal, and. Saint Mary's generally feeds about 800 at each meaL Bowles, for-
see SURVEYS/page 6 



page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Hotne sw-eet hotne 
J.'rnshman year of collnge is the timn for a lot of significant r.hangns and d i ITnrnnt cxpnrienees. Typically thnsn inr.ludc adjusting to living on onn's own. battling honwsiekrwss and managing a 
Molly Griffin
collngn work­
load. !laving 
your family 

Assistant 
dncidn to up and 

.'}cene Editor 
rnovn to tlw 
Marshall Islands 

is signilkanlly lnss common, hut 
this very thing happnnnd to me my 
l'irst ynar at Notrn Damn. 

I livnd in Hnno, Nev. for 1 X years 
of my life. and going away to sehool 
in Indiana was the biggnst adven­
ture of my life. As I was prnparing 
to eornn home for llw sumnwr. rny 
parnnts dropped a hugn·bomb on nw: "We'n~ thinking of moving." The prospncl of rnloeating in itsnlf is a big dnal, but thnn llwy addnd. "To llw Marshall Islands." 
So lwgan onP of the strangest and most intPrPsting yPars of my lifn. 
Crantnd. I didn't have to physi­cally movn to tlw Kwajalainn Atoll. a tiny island of about 2,000 pnople which is l'ivn miles long by half a milo wide, but lluml was a dnl'in'ite snnsn that things worn very diiTnr­nnt. My entire family had to gnt major physicals and military dear­ancn in order to go. and wn could only takn one of our family pets over llwrc. When I called my par­nnts from school. it was already the nnxt day since they wnrn past the intnrnational dateline, and our cat had l'ights with sand crabs. I ol'ten fnlt like I was related to the cast of "Gilligan's Island." 
I went to visit my family during Christmas break. and it took me thnw days, five airports and Christmas Eve in a hotel alone in llonolulu to get there. The week I spent there was both fun and strange, because I was basically in a tropical paradise without any erowds, but I finally realized that my family literally lived in the mid­dle of nowhere. Nothing is quite as seary or liberating as knowing that your parents are an entire ocean away from you. 
While my family was living the island life, I thought that it was the worst thing that could have ever happened to me. Looking back at it now, I have a different perspective. There are a lot of things worse than your parents moving to an island, and I have a great experi­ence to write about if I apply to grad school. Most importantly, I realized that my family could sur­vive anything, whether it be mov­ing, sand crabs or an entire year of "Gilligan's Island" jokes. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer.. Contact Molly Griffin at mgri.ffin@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
In the Nov. 10 edition ofThe Observer in the review about "Monk's Travels," the book was incorrectly described as a novel. The Observer regrets the error 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, November 11, 2004 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WOULD YOU NOMINATE TO BE MR. NO? 


ND/1." 





Brian Hedges  Bob Murphy  Michelle Holzinger  Tara Johnson  Kate Runde  Laurie Wasikowski  
sophomore Siegfried  senior Siegfried  sophomore Breen-Phillips  sophomore Breen-Phillips  sophomore Walsh  sophomore Walsh  
'That dreamy guy that I always see at  "Father /1esburgh, just because."  "Ted Lawless, because his fluorescent  "Tim Wyne, but Salims the Usurper will  "Tim Capecchi a.k.a. Scooby, because he's in  "Joe Runde, because I can 't have his older  


OFFBEAT 
Man allegedly tries to 
swap pot for tires 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. ­
A man who unsuccessfully 
tried to barter with mari­
juana was arrested for 
stealing two auto tires 
after the deal was reject­. ed, Roseville police said. 
Joshua Dean Williams, 
20, and another man 
allegedly tried the pot-for­
tires swap at a Sears Auto 
Center, said police spokes­
woman Dee Dee Gunther. 
When the sales clerk 
refused, one of the men 
swung at the worker with 
a baseball bat, Gunther 
said. The worker avoided 
being struck and threw a 
rock at the car, shattering 
TODAY 
D:: 
1.1.1 
:E: 
~ 
1.1.1 
~ 
...I
cr: 
(.) 


, ,
shirt really dominate. the band, writes sister. 
,

turns girls on. his own music, is smart and super sexy. 
a window. 

The suspects grabbed two tires and drove off, Gunther said. 
The duo returned to the store about an hour later looking for the worker who broke their window, said Tim Thompson, assistant manager of the tire shop. 
The two fled after work­ers recognized them, but police were able to nab Williams and arrest him on suspicion of robbery, Gunther said. 
Russia parliament rejects beer measure 
MOSCOW -The upper house of the Russian par­liament on Wednesday 
rejected a bill that would have banned public beer consumption. 
The bill already had been approved by the lower house of parliament, the State Duma, which is dominated by the pro­Kremlin United Russia party. The. Federation Council, the upper house, which rarely challenges the Kremlin, had been widely expected to pass the measure.. 
However, the measure was rejected by a 40-73 vote, the Federation Council press service said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

'~ 
~ 
0 

HIGH 51 HIGH 45 HIGH 40 HIGH 41
.... 

LOW 45 LOW 40 LOW 23 LOW 22 
IN BRIEF 
Visiting seh ol ar Jen n i fer Connolly will speak about "Peace is Beautiful: Defusing Ethnic and Heligious Violence in East Kalimantan, Indonesia" today from 12:15 
p.m. to 1:30 p.m. in C-103 llesburgh Contor. 
Alfonso Aguilar, head of the Office of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services in Washington, D.C. will talk today. about "Building A Common Civic Identity" from S to 7 p.m. in 210 McKenna Hall. 
A Fall Choral Concert by the Saint Mary's Women's Choir and the Collegiate Choir will be performed tonight at 
7:30 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. 
The Student Union Board will sponsor a showing of "The Manchurian Candidate" today from 10 p.m. to 12 a.m: in 101 DeBartolo Hall. 
U.S. ambassador and Gearge Washington University profes­sor Thomas McNamara will discuss the topic "Terrorist Rogue No More: Libya" today from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
Sports nutritionist Valerie Staples from the University Counseling Center will talk today about "Eating Disorders and the Notre Dame Student" from 8:15 
a.m. to 9:15 a.m. in the Aquatics classroom, Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 
~

~ 
HIGH 47 HIGH 52 LOW 22 LOW 30 
Atlanta 57 I 49 Boston 55 I 47 Chicago 51 I 46 Denver 42 I 30 Houston 70 I 57 Los Angeles 68 I 59 Minneapolis 45 I 23 New York 58 I 44·Philadelphia 55 I 43 Phoenix 72 I 56 Seattle 50 I 34 St. Louis 51 I 39 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 49 I 40 

Thursday, November 11, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 

Walsh Hall natnes 2004 Mr. ND 
Mr. Knott, sophomore John Lyons, wins fourth annual competition 
By SARAH BARRETT 
News Writer 
The cream of the Notre Dame men's crop competed in the fourth annual Mr. ND Pageant Wednesday, as men from 13 of the male dorms on campus competed for the elu­sive title. 
Each contestant allowed the 150 attendees get to know them a little bit better by per­forming their diverse talents ranging from poetry readings,· song and dance and piano playing to magic tricks, karate and even baking. 
lleld in the LaFortune Ballroom, this event was put together by sophomore Kathleen O'Brien as part of Walsh Hall's 'Wild Week' and raised money for boxes of to donate to the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
Auctioning off the contest­ants after the pageant as dates for Walsh Hall's dorm dinner, the organization raised $85. 
!laving been serenaded, kissed on the hand and bribed with cookies, the judges declared John Lyons, Jeffery Stephens, Spence Zervoudakis, Brandon Ilollihan and Pete Lavorini as the top five contestants, allowing them to move on to the second round of the pag­eant. The round consisted of questions concerning the con­testants' favorite meal at the dining hall, their feelings on thefacebook.com and popped­collars and the color and con­tents of their own 'man­purse' if they had one. 

Sophomore John Lyons last year's first runner-up and this year's winner said the pageant was a fun experi­ence. 
"It was pretty cool, just a bunch of great guys goofing around and having a great time," Lyons said. 
O'Brien felt that the talent­ed contestants made for a wonderful pageant. 
"It was a lot of work but I am glad it turned out really well," O'Brien said. "I hadn't had a lot of experience run­ning a campus event but it turned out to be a lot of fun." 
Contact Sarah Barrett at sbarret@nd.edu 


Arafat, 75, dies after lapsing into con1a 
Future of Palestine, people unknown 
Associated Press 
RAMALLAH, West Bank­Yasser Ararat, who tri­umphantly forced his people's plight into the world spotlight but failed to achieve his life­long quest for Palestinian statehood, died Thursday at age 75. 
The French military hospi­tal where he had been treated for nearly a month said he died at 3:30 a.m. The Palestinian leader spent his final days there in a coma. 
Palestinian Cabinet Minister Saeb Erekat and Tayeb Abdel Rahim, a top Arafat aide, con­firmed that Arafat died in a conversation with reporters at Arafat's headquarters in the West Bank city of Ramallah. 
White House spokesman Trent Duffy said the adminis­tration was waiting to com­ment until it confirmed Arafat had died. The State Department had no immedi­ate comment. 
The Palestinian parliament speaker will be sworn in as Palestinian Authority presi­dent in the coming hours. 
Palestinian officials have said they want to ensure a smooth transition. Under Palestinian law, Parliament Speaker Rauhi Fattouh, a vir­tual unknown, is to become caretaker pre~ident until elections are held in 60 days. 

. Arafat's last days were as murky and dramatic as his life. Flown to France on Oct. 29 after nearly three years of being penned in his West Bank headquarters by Israeli tanks, he initially improved but then sharply deteriorated as rumors swirled about his illness. 
Top Palestinian officials flew in to check on their leader while Arafat;s 41-year­old wife, Suha, publicly accused them of trying to usurp his powers. Ordinary Palestinians prayed for his well being, but expressed deep frustration over his fail­ure to improve their lives. 
Arafat's failure to groom a successor complicated his passing, raising the danger of factional conflict among Palestinians. 
A visual constant in his 

checkered keffiyeh headdress, 
Arafat kept the Palestinians' 
cause at the center of the 
Arab-Israeli conflict. But he 
fell short of creating a 
Palestinian state, and, along 
with other secular Arab lead­
ers of his generation, he saw 
his influence weakened by the 
rise of radical Islam in recent 
years. 


@FENcgT~NR~
Everv THURSDAY@ l E GE N D S 
BREW AND VIEW 
Every Thursday come enjoy a FREE classic movie with FREE popcorn, your favorite drink, and your friends in a relaxed environment. No one will shhhh you here. 
11/11-Trainspotting 
11/18-Super Troopers 
11/2-Fight Club 
1 5 6 


This week ® Legends Thursday
8 


ND Student Stand Up-lOpm 15 16 17 Brew and View-midnight Senior Night

21 22 23 24 
:rriday & Sa tu_rday 
Nightclub w/ live DJ-12-4am
28 29 30 1 
ND, SMC, HCC ID required All Events Free www.legendsofnotredame.org 
'\ 
page 4 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 11, 2004 


Apply Online Due November 12 www.nd.edu/jJteamwork 

·-··--·­




eamwor 
omorrow 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 11, 2004 Co!'v1PJLED fROJ\,1 THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Forces storm Dutch house, end standoff with terror suspects 
TilE IIAGUE, Netherlands -Special forces overpowered two suspected Islamic extremists Wednesday after a daylong armed standoff, adding to Dutch concerns that global terrorism has spread into their corner of Europe. 
Police said five more suspects were detained in two other cities on a day that possible links emerged between the Muslim militant charged with murdering a Dutch filmmaker a week ago and terrorists allegedly involved in attacks and plots in Morocco and Spain. 
The bloodshed began when police tried to force their way into a house in the Laak working-class neighborhood at 2:45 a.m. and a suspect threw a grenade, seriously injuring an officer, authorities said. 
Ivory Coast foreigners evacuated 
ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast -France, the United States and other. nations launched one of the largest nvacuations of Africa's post-independ­ence era Wednesday, requisitioning commer­rial jets to fly out thousands or foreigners fol­lowing attacks on civilians and peacekeeping troops. 
Fnmch soldiers in boats plucked some of their trapped citizens from the banks or Abidjan's lagoons. 
Long convoys sent out by the U.S. Embassy . and other nations rounded up foreigners from their homes for evacuation as Ivory Coast's state TV alternately appealed for calm and for a mass uprising against the French, the coun­try's former colonial rulers. 
By late afternoon, much of Ivory Coast's largest city was quiet -the first break from violence since Saturday. 
French President Jacques Chirac sternly demanded that President Laurent Gbagbo rein in thousands of hard-line supporters. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Peterson foreman removed 
HEDWOOD CITY, Calif. -The judge in the Scott Peterson murder trial removed the foreman from the jury Wednesday, the sec­ond time in two days a juror has been sent home. 
The judge did not disclose why he removed juror No. 5., a man in his mid-40s who has both medical and law degrees. The juror was replaced by an alternate whose son-in-law now owns a restaurant that Scott and Laei Peterson themselves once owned. 
ACLU sues over new charity rules 
WASIIINGTON -The American Civil Liberti1~s Union and a dozen nonprofit groups are suing the government over new rules requiring organizations that receive money from a federal employees' charitable drive to cheek their staffs against terrorist watch lists. 
The lawsuit against the Ofl'ice of J'prsonnel Management disputes. a policy in the agency's Combined Federal Campaign that rnquires participating charities to certi­fy they don't knowingly employ people or eontribute money to organizations found on the terrorist watch lists of the United States, the United Nations or the European Union. 
The CFC allows federal employees to have deductions taken from their paychecks and given to designated charities. It is the nation's largest workplac!'l charity drive. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Million-dollar scheme thwarted 
INDIANAPOLIS -A prosecutor said lloosier Lottery officials waited for months without telling police about a scheme to ille­gally cash in a winning $1 million ticket. 
An informant alerted authorities to the scam in which two men bought the winning ticket after being told by a lottery security officer to which store it had been sent. 
IRAQ 

Coalition forces face resistance 
Troops exchange fire in Fallujah, gunmen kidrzap prime minister's relatives 
Associated Press 

FALLUJAII -Fireballs and tracer fire lit up the night sky over Fallujah and the sounds of artillery echoed in the streets Wednesday as U.S. and Iraqi troops fought pock­ets of resistance. Opening a second front, gue-rrillas mounted attacks in other cities and kidnapped three relatives of Prime Minister Ayad Allawi. 
Troops found "hostage slaughterhouses" where foreign captives had been killed. according to the Iraqi commander, Maj. Gen. Abdul Qader Mohammed Jassem Mohan. The abandoned houses had hostages' doc­uments, CDs showing cap­tives being killed, and black clothing worn by militants in videos. 
But it appeared troops did not find any of the at least nine foreigners still in kidnappers' hands ­including two Americans. 
U.S. and Iraqi fo~ces seized Fallujah's city hall compound before dawn after a gunbattle with insurgents who hit U.S. tanks with anti-armor rockets. Iraqi soldiers swept into a police station in the compound and raised an Iraqi flag above it. Press reporter embedded up to 15,000 U.S. and comfortable that none of 
Throughout the day, with them witnessed con­Iraqi troops into the bat­them moved back toward Americans hit the mili­tinued clashes in Jolan tle,-backed by tanks, the north or escaped on tants with artillery and and smoke billowing from artillery and attack air­the flanks." mortars, and warplanes the heart of the neighbor­craft. At least 71 militants fired on the c-ity's main hood late Wednesday. Lt. Gen. John F. Sattler, have been killed by early street and market as well The top U.S. command­the commanding general Wednesday, the third day as the insurgent strong­er in Iraq, Gen. George of the 1st -Marine of intense urban combat, hold of Jolan, one of sev­Casey, told President Bush Expeditionary Force, said the military said. As of eral neighborhoods where on Wednesday that his insurgents had been Tuesday night, 10 U.S. troops were skirmishing troops were "making very reduced to "small pockets; troops and two members with militants. good progress" securing blind, moving throughout of the Iraqi security forces 
In what could be a sign Iraq. the city. And we will con­had been killed. Marine of progress, the Marines "He said that things are tinue to hunt them down reports Wednesday said began turning over Jolan going well in Fallujah," and destroy them." 25 American troops and to Iraqi forces, signaling Bush said, adding that his "When they attempted 16 Iraqi soldiers were that Marines consider the Iraq commanders had not to flee from one zone to wounded. There was no area relatively secure. asked for more troops. another they were killed," new report Wednesday on Even so, an Associated The U.S. military has sent Sattler said. "We feel very U.S. military deaths. 

Bush nominates Gonzales for post 
Gonzales said, "There should be no voiced doubts. 
Associated Press 

question regarding the department's "It's encouraging that the president 
WASHINGTON -President Bush commitment to justice for every has chosen someone less polarizing," nominated White House counsel American. On this principle there can said Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y. Alberto Gonzales, who helped shape be no compromise." "We will have to review his record the administration's controversial A Harvard educated attorney very carefully, but I can tell you legal strategy in the war on terror, to whose parents were migrant work­already he's a better candidate than be attorney general Wednesday. He ers, the soft-spoken Gonzales would John Ashcroft." Another Democrat, would be the first Hispanic ever to succeed Attorney General John Sen. Byron Dorgan of North Dakota, serve as the nation's top law enforce­Ashcroft, one of the most powerful said the Senate generally allows the ment officer. and polarizing members of Bush's president to choose his own team. "I 
"He is a calm and steady voice in Cabinet. don't think that's going to change times of crisis," Bush said, his eyes '"Just give me a chance to prove much," he said. glistening with emotion as he stood myself' -that is a common prayer The American Civil Liberties Union next to Gonzales. "He has an unwa­for those in my community," said reserved judgment on Gonzales, but vering principle of respect for the Gonzales. "Mr. President, thank you its executive director, Anthony law." for that chance." Homero, said, "What we do know, 
After complaints about civil rights Some of Ashcroft's harshest critics however, raises some·significant abuses in the name of lighting terror, welcomed his selection, while others doubts and trouble." 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, November 11, 2004 

CLEMENT SlJHENDRA!The Observer A wooden comment box sits near the entrance of South Dining Hall. Comments are reviewed by staff and posted for students. 
Surveys 
continued from page 1 
nw r gP n P r a I 111 an age r for North Dining llall. said imple­nwnting varinty ehanges was nasinr in a smallnr atmosphern. 
"Thorn's a diiTnrnncn in how you can do things," hn said. "If you eomn to nw and say, 'I don't likn what you snrwd for dinnnr Wndrwsday night,' I can ehange that ... lweausn it's a smaller group hnre." 
Bowles said many students do provide pnrsonal opinions on various aspncts of the dining hall each day. Sincn hn camn to we're f'illing up, and able to ol'fnr a lot more, the suggestibns havn gone down greatly," hn said. 
lin said the yearly survey, with 17 different sections for students to rate food serviees on, tends to have a bigger irnpaet. Last fall, survey results dnmonstrated a plunge in stu­dent and faculty opinion of the appnaranee of South Dining llall. As a result, the problem ­which food serviens would not havn known nxisted without tho survey -was immediately solvnd. 
"One of the things that we had last year that South really 
dropped was 
appearanee of 
Saint Mary's, a "We want people to faeility," he said. comment eard "We've been get­
understand that 
systnm has been ting [workers] out
we're doing what 
usnd which in the dining allows stwlents to we can to improve rooms more fre­get almost instant quently now [and]
notjust the quality 
rnaetions to their the table's still
offood, but the 
eomnwnts. Cards fresh for people to with rnsponses quality oflife on go out and sit in. from the dining That's one of the
campus.
hall staff are most reeent exam­posted daily for ples of how we've gerwral viewing Barry Bowles used the survey." and have prompt­Noble Family Dining Both schools nd thn appnar­Hall director said they would 
anen of such mnnu itnms as wraps, a hot dog bar, a taco bar and a full-tinH~ dPli. 
"Wn get morn positive com­mnnts than rwgativn on cards," Bowlns said. ''Wn'll do those things, not b n e au s n tlwy' r n hnalthy options, but beeausn st.udPnts askPd for it." 
Poklinkowski said South Dining llall also usns a com­nwnt system. 
"Our opPrations manager has commnnt cards IpostPd I rnally dose to tlw exits. It usod to bn a lot morn popular ... now, as 
begin reviewing 
survey results as soon as they are tabulated, in order to make ehanges aceord­ingly. Bowles emphasized the nend for as much honnst stu­dent input as possiblo in order to provide a positive dining nxperienee. 
"We want people to undnr­stand that we're doing what we ean to improve not just the quality of food, but the quality of lif'e on campus," hn said. 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
NOW HIRING 
ALL POSITIONS! 
marcoW>s Pizza. 
Variety • Fun • Rewarding 
•Flexible hours -day & evening shifts available 
•Management positions, delivery drivers, pizza makers 
•No experience necessary 
•Job advancement opportunities 
INTERVIEWS & ON THE SPOT HIRING 

APPLY IN PERSON 
Marco's Pizza 52750 IN933 (North of Cleveland Rd.) 574-243-1122 

326 N. Ironwood (corner of Ironwood and McKinley) 574-243-1111 
www.marcos.com 2422 2 AP-202 



Senate 
# 

continued from page 1 
students' names, room num­bers and phone numbers. 
The resolution spndlies that the Ticket Share Program is designed to be a frne exehange, and that nxchanges in one dorm are not limitnd to resi­dents of that dorm. 
Ofr.eampus students ean use the OIT-eampus Wnb site as their exchange system. 
"llanding dorms a program that will work is thn best idea for the situation. and shows that student government cares," Badin senator Lizzi Shappell said. 
The resolution passed unani­mously. 
Senate also diseussed an amendment to' the S(lction of the studnnt union constitution about general student body elections, but it eould not be fully debated or voted on because of Sonato rules. 
The changes mainly concern write-in eandidates and run-oil' elnctions. 
Under r.urrnnt rules, write-in candidates -those who missed the deadline to appear on the ballot or switched tickets ­need only 150 signatures on a petition to be approved. 
The amended rule requires 50 percent of the required sig­naturns for the position to bn submitted. That would mean in thn presidential raee that rnquires 700 signatures for a eandidate to appnar on the bal­
lot, a write-in can­didatn would need 350. 
A soeond chango n~moves thn option for abstnntion from tlw runolr ballot. 
"Givnn what happnnnd last yBar lwlum abstnntion rneeivod 8 pmeent in the runoll', giv­ing neithnr eandi­datn a majority!. it 

would bn better if abstention was not an option," Siegfried snnator and viee presidential candidate in last year's elnetion James Lnito said. "We will have a primary with the option to abstain, but in a runoll' elnetinn, students should just ehoose betwnnn the two remaining candidates or not vote." 
Tho amendment also gives Senate the power to dndde the eleetion only in tho event of an absolute tie in voting in tho runoff-as opposed to the absenen of a m<~jority li1r either candidate -rnmovns the obli­gation of senators to vote aer.ording to the brnakdown of tlwir respeetive dorms in that 
"/landing dorms a program that will work is the best idea for the situation, and shows that student government cares." 
Lizzi Shappell Badin senator 
nvent. 

Tlwre was dnbate over relnasing snna­tors of this obli­gation, but it was mnphasiznd by a numbnr of snna­tors that t.hn event or an absolute tiP was very unlikely. 
"Tho goal hen~ is to mak1~ it so tho pnrson with thn most votes 
always wins," student body president Adam Istvan said of th1~ amnndment. 
Debate on tho amendmnnt' will 1~ontinun next Wndnnsday. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

Buy 10, get one free* with your Reader's Choice Card! 
Your not-so-average college bookstore bnngs you a better-than-average deal. There's no excuse not to reap the rewards. Join the Reader's Choice Book Club Today!. 
•Text, law and med1cal reference books excluded 

UJe recommend 
Terry Gross, the host of NPR's Fresh Air, collects some of her favorite interviews with people in the arts. 





Bill Rnncic. winner of the hit TV Aron Ralston's searing account show The Apprentice, tells how of /lis six days trapped in one anyone can become their own of tile most remote spots in 
personal success. America. 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME 



BOOKSTORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
phone: (574) 631-6316 • www.ndbookstore.com 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------~-------------------·---­

Thursday, November 11, 2004 
fc,~~s 10,385.48 -0 . .89 
/~' Same: ~: Composff.e Volume: 1,961 154 • 1,505,630,208 

AMEX 1,335.23 +8.58 NASDAQ 2,034.56 -8.77 NYSE 6,891.22 +4.88 S&PSOO 1,162.91 -1.17 NIKK£1(Tokyo) I 0,994.96 +0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4, 734.50 +16.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 

YEN EURO POUND CANADIAN$  Excha  Rates  I 07.0700 0.7758 0.5414 1.1954  
IN BRIEF  

MGM Mirage to build megacasino 
LAS VEGAS -Gambling giant MGM Mirage intends to build a new 4,000-room megaresort and sprawling urban develop­ment in the heart of the Las Vegas Strip, a project that would dramatically change the landscape of this city's most important commercial center. 
MGM Mirage officials are calling the ambitious plan "Project CityCenter," and they believe it will help transform Las Vegas into a sophisticated, multidimension­al city, one that rivals other major metro­politan areas. 
"Our master plan represents a significant new direction for our city and our compa­ny," !;laid Terry Lanni, MGM Mirage Inc.'s chairman and chief executive. 
The multibillion-dollar project includes three, 400-room boutique hotels, approxi­mately 550,000 square feet of retail shops, dining and entertainment venues, and a 1,650-unit luxury condominium complex. 
The massive development will be built on a 66-acre site between the Bellagio and Monte Carlo hotel-casinos, with the first phase creating 12,000 jobs. 
U.S. dollar slumps to all-time low 
BERLIN -The U.S. dollar slumped to a new all-time low Wednesday against the euro, which briefly rose above $1.30 for the first time after data showed the U.S. trade deficit above $50 billion in September for the fourth straight month. · 
The euro briefly rose to $1.3007 after the trade figures were released, breaking its two­day-old record of $1.2987 before dropping back. In late New York trading, the euro was quoted at $1.2895, down slightly from $1.2903 late Tuesday. 
The dollar's recent drop against the 12­nation European currency's recent rally has been fueled by persistent worries over high oil prices and the U.S. trade and budget deficits. 
September, which beat most forecasts with exports posting their best month on record. 
"The market is as the market does," said David Bloom, a currency strategist at HSBC Bank PLC in London. 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -6.63 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.95 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.13 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -2.75 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.22 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.75 10-YEAR NOTE +0.85 5-YEAR NOTE +1.62 3-MONTH BILL -0.39 
Commodities~ 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($fTroy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
-1.3 I 18.44 -0.22 22.86 -0.04 29.73
. 
-0.13 4.60 +0.03 13.38 
+ 1.49 48.86 -1.70 436.20 + 1.58 I 02.05 


THE OBSERVER 


USINESS 
page 7 

Federal Reserve ups interest rates 
One-quarter percentage point increase cited to ameliorate economy 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The Federal Reserve boosted a key short-term interest rate by one-quarter per-" centage poii;Jt Wednesday. Citing an improving econ­omy and "well contained" inflation, it said further increases would be grad­ual. 
The rate increases are part of a credit-tightening campaign to bring rates back up to more normal levels now that the econo­my's recovery from the 
+0.37 49.76 +0.36 42.54 +0.57 35.71 -0.08 20.29 

2001  recession is  more  
deeply rooted.  
Fed  Chairman  Alan  
Greenspan  and  his  

Federal Open Market Committee colleagues ­who set interest rate poli­cy in the United States ­increased the target for the federal funds rate to 2 percent from 1.75 per­cent. 
The funds rate is the interest banks charge each other on overnight loans and is theFed's pri­mary tool for influencing economic activity. 
In response to the Fed's decision to push up the funds rate, Wells Fargo said it was increasing by a corresponding amount its prime lending rate for many short-term con­sumer and business loans to 5 percent from 4. 7 5 percent. Other commer­cial banks were expected to follow suit. 
The Fed's current rate­raising campaign began in June with a quarter­point boost, marking the first rate increase in four years. The Fed bumped up rates again by a quar­ter-point in August and September and then once more Wednesday. 
Fed policy-makers stuck to their view that future rate increases would be gradual. They said rates could rise at a pace likely to be "measured," retain­ing language contained in previous statements. 
On the economy, the Fed said it "appears to be 

growing at a moderate pace despite the rise in energy prices, ami labor market conditions have improved." 
The Fed also said infla­tion and longer-term inflation expectations "remain well contained," another reason the Fed can stick with its gradual approach to raising rates. 
The vote was unani­mous. 
"Monetary policy-mak­ers seem quite pleased with the current state of the economy," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Bane of America Capital Management. Still, she said, "The Fed's task is not complete. Policy-mak­ers want to see rates at more normal levels with the belief the economy no 
longer needs the prop of 
excessively low interest 
rates." 

Economists believe the 
odds are increasing for 
the Fed to boost the funds 
rate again on Dec. 14, at 
its last meeting of the 
year. Before the good 
news on October payrolls, 
many economists believed 
the Fed would probably 
stand pat at the 
December meeting. 

On Wall Street, the Dow 
Jones industrials were up . around 10 points in trad­ing after the Fed's 
announcement. 

The Fed's latest rate 
increase comes as many 
economists believe the· 
economy has emerged 
from a late spring and 
early summer soft patch. 
The economy added a sizable 337,000 jobs in October, the most since March, the government said last week. While the figures were helped by job gains related to hurri­cane cleanup efforts, they nonetheless raised hopes that the recovery in the labor market, which has been uneven, is gaining some real traction. 
The pickup in October's payrolls was welcome news to President Bush, who sparred frequently with Democratic rival John Kerry over the health of the labor mar­ket and job losses that have occurred since Bush took office in January 2001. 


Calif. settles lawsuit with Diebold 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO -Diebold Inc. agreed Wednesday to pay $2.6 mil­lion to settle a lawsuit filed by California alleging that the electron­ic voting company sold the state and several counties shodd·y voting equipment. 
Although critics characterized the settlement as a slap on the wrist, Diebold also agreed to pay an undis­closed sum to partially reimburse Alameda, San Diego and other coun­ties for the cost of paper backup ballots, ink and other supplies in last week's election. California's sec­retary of state banned the use of one type of Diebold machine in May, after problems with the machines disenfranchised an unknown num­ber of voters in the March primary. 
Faulty equipment forced at least 6,000 of 316,000 voters in Alameda County, just east of San Francisco, to use backup paper ballots instead of the paperless voting terminals. In San Diego County, a power surge resulted in hundreds of touch­screens that wouldn't start when the polls opened, forcing election offi­cials to turn voters away from the polls. 
According to the settlement, the North Canton, Ohio-based company must also upgrade ballot tabulation software that Los Angeles County and others used Nov. 2. Diebold must also strengthen the security of its paperless voting machines and computer servers and promise never to connect voting systems to outside networks. 
"There is no more fundamental right in our democracy than the right to vote and have your vote counted," California Attorney General Bill Lockyer said in a state­ment. "In making false claims about its equipment, Diebold treated that right, and the taxpayers who bought its machines, cavalierly." 
The original lawsuit was filed a year ago by electronic voting critic Bev Harris and activist Jim March.who characterized the $2.6 million settlement as "peanuts." 

page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
Ce01etery 
continued from page 1 
Hespect Life Week in <ktobnr. but I>auf'enbach said multipiP (Toss dPmonstrations per year could bnconw tlw norm. 
In (~ontrast to tho Oetobnr display, a Notre Damn Security/PolkP of'ficer will bn prnsnnt. during tlw night hours orthis WPPk's dPmonstration to guard against possible vandal­ism. 
Ollkm· !\. BridgPs said NI>SP 
oITi c n r·s statiorwd nPar tlw South ()uad Pntrancn to Hurley Hall would takP shifts from evening to sunrisl' Wedrwsday and Thursday nights. 
"IWP'd dol what wn do nor­mally -gd studPnts names and Ills," said Bridges about any possihiP vandalism attempts. 
llaui'Pnbach said that during tlw approval for tho currnnt display tlw group approadwd ass(H~iat.n virP president for student. all'airs Bill Kirk with a rnqunst for somP typn of secu­rity. 

Many students walking by Clarke Memorial took note of the ceremony but continued on 
their way. Junior Jana Lamplota, howev­er, sat quietly and watched as 

ABC pulls special 
'Saving Private Ryan,' will not air tonight 

the military members assumed 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -More than 20 ABC al'llliates around the country have announced that they won't take part in the network's Veterans Day airing of "Saving Private Hyan," say­ing tlw acelaimNI film's vio­lenco and language could draw sanctions from the Federal Communications Commission. 
Tho decisions mark a twist in thn conflirt over the aggrnssive stand the FCC has taknn against obscnnity and profanity sim~n .Jannt Jackson flashed the world during the last Super Bowl halftime show. 
Steven SpiPibnrg's Oscar­winning movie ain1d on ABC with rPiativPiy little contro­versy in 200 I and 2002, but station ownPrs -ineluding S(WPral in large markets ­are unnPrvnd that airing it 
Other stations choosing to replace the movie with other 

Information Session for the University ofNotre Dame's 
programming are located in Atlanta, Dallas, llonolulu, 

International Study ProgramsN11w Orleans, Milwaukee, Phoenix, Orlando, Fla., and Charlotte, N.C. They are owned by a variety of compa­nies. including Cox Television, Tribune Broadcasting Corp., IIParst-Argyln Television Inc., 
.Spend Summer 2005 in:
Bolo Corp. and Sinclair Broadcast (;roup. 
Ireland 

Spain 


Plus, new this summer: 
Germany 



Italy
ovarlookinu 

(ND EG course offered!)
rnrn~rn~rnrn~~ ~usi1J~[[J[ll] 


Book your 

Thursday, November 11, 2004 Spm

GRADUATION PARTY now 

129 DeBartolo Hall 
DANCESI DINNERSI 

APPLICATION DEADLINE IS MARCH 1, 2005 
. ··:;·-··-----.-..--... 


our country in a very important way next year," she said. 
Cadet Captain Patrick Mcllugh, a senior in the Army HOTC, acknowledged the unity that the vigil cultivates between the three branches on campus. 
"It's a chance for us to gather all three branches of the mili­tary," McHugh said as he waited his turn to stand guard at the fountain. "It reminds us or the distinct brotherhood and sister­hood that unites all members of' the military. We're all out here for the same reason." 
Indeed, the· separation between the three branches was apparent as cadets and mid­shipmen arrived !'or their shifts. 
Many woro meet­"In my experiences satisfaction HOTC ing each other for nwmbnrs dnrive
here. it is always
the first time. After from participat­shaking hands and the most ing. intnJdueing them-meaningful when "It is awesomn selves, Cadet to be ahh~ to -do
the old veterans
Captain John this," she said. 
Tritschler and come up to us with "When you con­
Midshipman 3rd tears in their eyes­sider how so Class Emmanuel many pnople havn
saying thanks. " 
Zervoudakis, rec­sacrificed tlwir ognized thn impor-· lives for our coun­tance of bringing Stephanie Lutz try, it is not hard the entire HOTC participant to stand out in tlw 
program together 
for Veterans Day. 

"We play sports against each other, but this is an opportunity to come together and show sup­port for all veterans," Zervoudakis said. 
Sandwiched between Halloween and Thanksgiving, Veterans Day is a holiday not always given a great amount of attention. Yet, Mike Edwards, retired Lt. Col. and retired pro­fessor of military seienee, believes Notre Dame does a fine job of acknowledging the impor­tance of the holiday. 
"I think it's terrific the way the HOTC programs commemorato the holiday," Edwards said. "They absolutely do an ade­quate job of showing apprecia­tion for veterans." 
Wednesday at 5 p.m., the Air Foree Hifle Drill Team per­formed a routine in front of the fountain. The nine members performing the routine were in full uniform. 
Many non: membnrs attend­ed the drill tnam routine to view the culmination of the team's hard work. 
"I am amazed at how good our drill team looks. It is very impressive," said freshman Joseph Janke, who was selwd­uled to stand· guard at 8 a.m. today. 
Most students would likely not look forward to standing out in the (~old in tho early hours of tlw morning. but project of'f'icPr <:a i tl in l>i ff'l n y emphasized tlw 
cold late at night. 
It is so small com­pared to what others have done." 
Still, the presence of the veter­ans thnmselvos is what com­pletes the eormnony. 
Stephanie Lutz, who has par­ticipated in the ceremony for two ynars and was watching the drill team routine, said it's not the gaze of onlookers that makes her proud, but tho acknowledgement from veter­ans who approach the memorial with expressions of gratitude. 
"In my experiences here, it is always the most meaningful when the old veterans come up to us with tears in their eyes saying thanks," she said. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone@nd.edu 
"We raised the concern because the cemetery was destroyed last time," she said. 
In addition to the NDSP presence, Daufenbaeh said Hight to Lifo members would also be present during the night hours. 
"From 12 to 6 a.m. there will lw elub members praying around tho <Tosses," she said. 
I>aufnnbaeh said the elub chose this week for the display bncausn of the home football gamn. 
I>aufenbach and Cathy Provonzaln, an organizer for both d(~monstrations, said the vandalism directnd at the first demonstration promptnd a strong rnsponse from club morn bnrs in favor of anothor display. 
Provenzaln said when the crosses were torn down in October, many people stoppml throughout the day to hnlp set the crossns back up. 
"I felt that, fwnn more than doing tho crosses ·again, this was just a tnstament to the pro-life sentiment on-campus," 
Contact Teresa Fralish at 
tfralish@nd.edu 
Veterans 
continued from page 1 

diers. The vigil will conelude 
at 4:30 p.m. today with a speech 
by University President 
Emeritus Father Theodore 
llesburgh. 

Veterans Day ceremonies have 
bP(Hl a part of the Notre Dame 
(~xperience since 1926, when it 
was referred to as Armistice 
Day and honored those who 
fought in World War I. 

Commander of the Air Foree 
HOTC Mike Zenk helped plan 
the event this year. lie said the 
location of the event helps high­
light Notrn Dame veterans, but 
said tho ceremony still seeks to 
honor all veterans, regardless of 
their origin. 

"Father llesburgh makes a point that the peace memori<tl was designed to honor Notre Dame graduates who have given ·uw ultimate sacrifice," said' 
Znnk. 

Though it might be easy to walk by the fountain without taking notice of tiHJ military members, it is the silence and solemnity of the tribute that makes it so powerful according to students on campus. 
Thursday could bring federal punishment. The film indudes a violent depiction or the D-Day invasion and pro­fanity. 
"It would clearly have been our preference to run the movie. We think it's a patriot­ic, artistic tribute to our fight­ing forces," Hay Cole, presi­dent of' Citadel Communications, told AP Hadio. The company owns three ABC affiliates in the Midwest. 

their places at the start of the vigil. 
"I just have a very deep appreciation for Vetnrans Day," Lamplota said. "It's a beautiful ceremony." 
Lamplota, who has attended the concluding ceremony for the last two years, was pleasantly surprised to be drinking her cor­fen on North Quad when the vigil began. 
"It strikes me because many of the students standing guard are seniors who will be serving 
----------------------,.....--------------------------­
Thursday, November 11, 2004 The Observer + HEALTH NEWS page 9 
Supplen1ent linked to disease 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A New York City company is recalling two Chinese herbal supplements because they contain a carcino­gen linked to kidney disease, the company said Wednesday. 
Kingsway Trading Inc. of Brooklyn said it is rPcalling its dietary pills Double Deers Formula brand Expellin Extract (Concentrated) and Cardioflex. lbe company said it stopped dis­tribution of the products after being notified by the Food and Drug Administration that they contain aristolochic acid, a car­cinogen and toxin found in plants that has been associated with some cases of kidney failure and an increased risk of kidney cancer. 
Expellin extract has been mar­keted to relieve headaches and sinus congestion, while Cardioflex is suggested for main­taining cardiovascular and circu­latory health. Both supplements were imported from China and distributed nationwide through retailers and acupuncture clinics since May 2000. 
The FDA confirmed the recall Wednesday and advised con­sumers who have taken the products to contact their health care provider immediately. No illnesses related to the products have been reported, the compa­ny and the FDA said. 

"Even if these products have not been used recently, con­sumers should still inform their health care provider about which product they took, so that an appropriate evaluation may be conducted," said FDA spokes­woman Kimberly A. Rawlings. 
The recall covers all lots of the two products, a total of 2,873 units, the company said. 
Consumers can return the recalled products to their place of purchase for a full refund. The company can be contacted with question~ at 718-366-2300. 
THE INSTITUTE FOR LATINO STUDIES 
PROUDLY PRESENTS: 


IN T 
:.-:--:.: -···· 
Latino Studtes
Escuela by Hannah Weyer Thursday, Novambar 11, 7:00-8:00 PM Hasburgh Cantar Auditorium Univarsity of Notra 



Drug exposed as risk, Pfizer stock plunges 
Painkiller dangerous for heart disease patients 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -A. scien­tist's claim of evidence that Pfizer Inc.'s Bextra might be even riskier for people with heart disease than rival arthri­tis drug Vioxx sparked contro­versy Wednesday at a medical meeting and sent the company's stock lower. 
Dr. Garret FitzGerald, a University of Pennsylvania car­diologist who helped test these types of drugs years ago, told a medical conference that he had reanalyzed some previously published studies on Bextra and concluded that it roughly doubled the risk of heart attacks and strokes 
the reason 

warning of risks in heart dis­ease patients, and to do larger studies to define their safpty for people with arthritis but not heart risks. 
He and others have criticized Merck and the FDA for not removing Vioxx before 80 mil­lion people took it and the risks became known. 
In an opinion piece in the New England Journal of Medicine last month, FitzGerald argued that studies long ago s-uggest that thP problems with Vioxx aore a "class effect" shared by other cox-2 inhibitors. 
The same mechanism that inhibits inflammation and 
makes the drugs 
easier on the 

Merck & Co. pulled stomach than
'This has shifted 
_Vioxx off the mar­traditional
the burden ofproof
ket in October. painkillers also But FitzGerald'S' onto those who blocks a sub­numbers haven't stance that pre­
would have to
been published or vents heart
establish that this 
independently problems, reviewed, and he is not a class FitzGerald presented only par­effect.,, believes. tial information in a "We have a speech rather than clear mecha­a scientific session Dr. Garrett FitzG~rald nism that at the American cardiologist applies to this 
Heart Association meeting where oth­ers could evaluate and critique it. 
Pfizer, which besides Bextra also sells a similar painkiller, Celebrex, complained FitzGerald had selectively cho­sen data that made results appear worse than they were from larger studies of Bextra's safety. 
"Pfizer has shared Bextra clinical results in a timely man­ner with regulatory authorities both in the United States and worldwide," said Dr. Joseph Feczko, Pfizer's president of worldwide development. 
FitzGerald said Pfizer and the federal Food and Drug Administration should move more forcefully to determine whether the labels of the whole class of drugs -called cox-2 inhibitors -need to carry a 
Fri., Nov.12th 

Fri. Nov. 12th vs. Eastern Illinois 
vs Pittsburgh at 4pm 

at 7:30pm 
-Held at the Joyce Center Arena 

-1st round NCAA_ tournament at i\lumni Field -Call the Notre Dame tieket office at (574) 631-7356 
-First 1500 fans will receive a 
green volleyball shirt 

-Come cheer the Irish on to the
sponsored by St. Clair Apparel 

Championship! Sun., Nov. 14th vs West Virginia 2pm 
-Held at the Joyce Center Arena -First 250 fans will receive a ND 
~~10~ 
volleyball lunch box ~t~ 

Fri. Nov. 12th at 5 pm 
-ND Faculty/Staff appreciation day! ~~ 

GOLD GAME 
First 200 faculty/staff receive a ~Held at Rolfs Aquatic Center Jimmy John's sandwich 

vs Pittsburgh and Michigan State. -First 200 fans receive a gold games shirtvisit W\-\<'1-V.notredamepromotions.com 
class that 

explains not only what happened but how it hap­pened," he said. 
In light of the Vioxx with­drawal and his alleged new analysis showing risks of Bextra, "This has shifted the burden of proof onto those who would have to establish that this is not a class effect," he said. 
The Food and Drug Administration plans to con­vene an advisory committee in February to review the safety of all cox-2 inhibitors. 
"We look forward to a scien­tific and reasoned evaluation in this appropriate setting," Pfizer's Feczko said. 
Shares of Pfizer fell 52 cents, or 2 percent, to close at $27.47 on the New York Stock Exchange, only slightly above their 52-week low of $27.20. 
Cal1259·1ooo for more details 
Tonight! DJ & Specials ALLDAY 272-1766 2046 South Bend Ave. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, November 11, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. !lox Q, Notre Dame. IN 46S56 02~ Smuh Dining 1-bll, Norrc Dame. IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  8USINF.SS MANAGER  
Mcghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe ! lcnler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire ! Ieininger VI~WI'OINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Hear her Van Hocgarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
All DR~IGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CONTROI.I.F.Il: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (S74l 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsmc@'nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(S74) 631-5323 obsncws.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1 @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the Univmity ofNotre Dame du l~tc and Saint Mary's Colk-gc. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor gowrned by policies of the administration ofeither instirution. The Ohserver reserves the right ro refuse .tdwrti.<emems hased on comcnt. The nt'WS is reponed as accurately and objectively as pos.,ible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majoriry of rhe Editor in Chief: Managing Editor, Assistanr Managing 1:--:ditor and department editors. Commcnt:trics, letters and columns presem rbe views of rhe ;nu hor.. and ll<ll necessarily rhose ofThe ( )bserwr. Vi,·wpoint space is available to all readers. The free l'xprcssion ofall opinions through leuers is encouraged. l.<·ner.. 10 rlw Ediror mtL<I be signed and must indude «."<Jntact infi:)rmarinn. 
(!ue.<tion.r rq;mrling Obsaver policies should b~ dim·ted to F.ditor i11 Chiif'Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Olwcrvcr (lJSJI~ 'i'.l') 2-'\tulllJ i~ published Mond..y rhrou~h Fddity U(c:pr t!uring t>XJJU ,mJ v.a~.tr1nn JlC'rtt>di A ~utH.:nptiun f(l Tin: ObJ.Crvcr i~ $1~) lor nol.' .a~Jdemk )'CJr:S'ti luf o/IC\l'lllt'\U"t. 
rhr ()h!.~;l'~\·t u. a member of rhc A.w.~ti.ued Pre•~· All t(J1Wt.iucliun n¢u~ .arc: 
rt"·rved.  
Thr ( lh ..av('r ·~ rubl·~htd A(  P.O.(\nxQ  
ll.!·l'inmh Di•un(l:il>~ll  Ul"i Smuh Dmin~ t!Jll  
Nut~ f>ouuc. IN 46"i'i(dJ77<J  None.: D.mu:, JN 16'iS6-n779  
/'w,..,.JiuiJN'''~P.Iid.nNorttl1t.mc  
.111d ;addiiUII1oiJ ttUIIllll~ 11tlkM.­ 
I'O>TMASI'FR  
!\c:nJ o~dll•,·,~ 1-llffl:rdons w:  
Th~:Oh~K:rvc:r  

'J ho:' Oh.w:r\frr i1 11 nlrmhrt ul1lu: AwK!OIIctf f1rc.,. All u·prtxlw:riun u(tl"' .arr 
~"""' 
TODAY'S STAFF 

Relinquishing partisanship 
The early hours of Nov. 3 found me shocked and disappointed as my hopes for a 1ww president steadily slipped away. John Kerry might not havp, been a perf1~ct candidatn, but I believe that hn would have been a 
Molly Acker

capable leader who would have made great strides in unit­Nobody likes a ing a divided nation. dumb blonde Arter getting over the initial surprise that the American peo­ple had really opted for four more years of' "Dubya," I realized that plenty of good came out of this election. 
First and foremost, last Tuesday saw the highest percentage of votHr turnout since the 1968 election. or particular interest was the fact that some· 20.9 million Americans under the age of thir­ty voted. This marks an increase of 4.6 million from the 2000 election -I'm sure this can be largely attributed to P. Diddy's inspiring "Vote or Die" cam­paign. In short, Democrats and Hepublicans alike emphasized the importance of getting out and voting, and the country responded. 
Another positive element of this campaign came as a result of last month's debates. Both candidates were efl'ective in using the debates to ener­gize their bases. More importantly, Sen. John Kerry and President George W. 
Bush used the forum to help bring sev­eral key issues to the foref'ront of' voters' consciousness. Obviously, the war on terrorism, Bush's. war in Iraq, abortion, gay rights and the economy dominated the debates. However, the contests also caused people to think about taxes. health care and Supreme Court nomi­nations. Hegardless of which candidate was more eff'cctive in the debates, they both succeeded in bringing thnse topies into our national discussion. 
If you arc anything like me, you arc not thrilled with the idea of Bush in oflice for four morn years. Still it is important to support the president and the Unitnd States. I have heard many people claim that they are going to !nave the country until the 200!~ elec­tion. Do not go packing your bags quite yet. It is time to stop complaining and begin trying to make a diiTerence in America. Do not let the issues that you felt so passionately about prior to last Tuesday go to rest until the next elec­tion cycle. 
This is not a time for partisanship. This is a time for people in Hod States and Blue States to band together and try to repair some of the deep divisions in our country. For Democrats, that does not mean that you should go invest in a NASCAR bumper sticker to put on your car. Instead, start with something simple. Whnther or not you agree with 
the war in Iraq. it is important to sup­
port tho troops. Bather than complain­
ing about the war and its causes, stand 
behind the brave men and wonHm who arc ovnrscas dd'ending our rights. 
Similarly, this is not a time for Hepublieans to tout ~political capital" or gloat about a supposed mandate. Instead. it is a time to reach out to Dmnoerats and look for some common ground. For the president, a good start would be to hoed tlw words of his oppo­nent. Kerry. In his eonenssion spnPch hn rmninded tlw country, "But in an American election, thern arn no losers. because whother or not our candidates are successful. th1~ next morning wn all wake up as Americans. That is the greatest privilege and tho most remark­able good fortune that can come to us on Earth. With that girt also comes obligation. We are required now to work together for tho good of our coun­try." 
Molly Acker is a junior communica­tions and humanistic studies double major at Saint Mary's. 1/er column appears every other Thursday. Contact her at acke6798@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Show some consistency in your loyalty 
To the current students of the University, I feel the need to enlighten those who may be confused regarding the leader­ship of our football team. This past Saturday, Notre Dame students stared at their television sets in a fixed glaze of dis­belief, excitement and, for some, relief. Eyes were glued until the very last second of play to ensure the Irish vietory. 
Following the game, students bellowed out in excitement; running through dorm hallways and chanting down South Quad, only to be followed moments later by silence and crude ro11ection: if we can beat Tennessee (no. 11) and Michigan (no. 9), then why can't we defeat the mainstream teams like BYU and Boston College (no. 21 )? 
Students, who moments before wore heard avidly com­mending our fearless student-athletes, were still complain­ing about the leadership of coach Tyrone Willingham. In addition to doubtful believers, the alumni's impatient, hard­to-satisfy attitude seems to eclipse our community's air of success. 
First, I feel that it is impHrative for me to share certain facts with you about college football. In today's world, there is more parity in college football compared to the "glory days" under coaching legends such as Hockne, LPahy, Parseghian and lloltz. The resilient streak of Notre Dame's football preeminence -11 national championships from 1924-l<JHH-made Notre Dame college football's bench­mark for excPIIence. Dw~ to the reduced number of scholar­ships and the expansion of television game coverage, there are now many exceptional football programs throughout thfl country. That's why smaller teams like Baylor can defeat his­
. torically dominant programs like Texas A&M (no. 22). The ship is clearly turned in thP right dirnction, and now is not the time to take the wind out of the sails. Defeating Michigan and Tennessee demonstrates the caliber of our team. The school doesn't need disruption now, from the alumni or band-wagon fans. Instead, it needs to fill the holes and develop consistency. Willingham's presPnee will develop that consistency. You will have some of the best high school 
football players aspiring to play under Willingham. Let's not dwell on the losses of the past and lose the next year or two's future All-Americans beeause of the uncertainty of Notre Dame football leadership. 
Willingham has proven that in addition to high academic standards, both at Stanford and Notre Dame, he has been able to attract and motivate football players that can play at a top 25 program level. Be careful what you wish for, alum­ni, for if Willingham leaves, he will be sucecssful at whatev­er job he takes-college or professional level. (Could you imagine him taking the Florida head coaching job, with a hot bed of Florida talent without the academic pressure in addi­tion to the incredible economic support that the University of Florida's football program is accustomed to n~ceiving. lle'd probably have a national title within three years.) 
If Willingham and the Irish beat no. 1 USC in the Memorial Coliseum, that should guarantfle him a contract ren~~wal. The alumni, as well as the student body, m~ed to realize that our football organization is well equipped with somn of the best coaches and student-athletes that put it on the line every weekend. As the saying goes, football game day is like "Any Given 'Saturday."' The jesters of the court could bring mighty kings to their knees on a so-called "good day." Thfl players cannot blame anyone if they fail; there arfl simply no excuses on the athletic lield. Hather, they must be prepared for their next opponent who would love nothing more than to boast about beating tlw Irish. We are tho fans, they are the coaches; they are the players; and "We are all NI>." They nPed our support. They l11Wd our eneouragenwnt. And they need our loyalty now more than ever. That is the essence of the Notre Dame "family." To the players and coaches I say this: Get 'er donn, and Go Irish! 
Kellie Middleton 
semor 
Pasqucrilla West 
Nov. 10 
News Sports Teresa Fralish Heather Van 

OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Angela Saoud Hoegarden Nicole· Zook Steve Coyer Kelly Meehan Matt Puglisi 

Do you think that academic cheating is a 
"/regret that I have but one life to give for my
Viewpoint Mike Gilloon 

Lauren Galgano Scene problem on campus? 
country." 
Graphics Kenyatta Storin Kelly MacDonald Illustrator 

Nathan Hale
Vote by today at 5 p.m. at
Katie Knorr 

captain, American Revolution
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

TrlE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 11, 2004 
page 11 
'The Year of the 1Eucharist' 
Are you sick of politics? Consider the derivation of the word. Some say that "poli'' means many and "tics" are little blood-sucking creatures. The profes­sion of politics, of course, is honorable. But, whatever side we were on in the recent Charles Rice election, we can be excused if we suspect Right or that politicians don't Wrong? have all the answers, neither for what ails the country nor for the issues in our own lives. Maybe it is time to look elsewhere. 
When John Paul II instituted Eucharistic adoration at St. Peter's basilica in 1981, he said: "The best ... way of establishing everlasting peace on the face of the earth is through,.. Perpetual Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament." For many years, Notre Dame has had the Eucharist exposed for adoration on Friday afternoons in the Basilica. Since 1997, on student ini­tiative and with the aid of Campus Ministry, we have adoration also on Monday through Thursday in the Coleman-Morse chapel. . 
Why is this important? First of all, because Christ is really there. "In the ... Eucharist, the body and blood, ... soul and divinity, of our Lord Jesus Christ and, therefore, the whole Christ is truly, really and substantially con­tained. This presence is called real, by which is not intended to exclude the other types of presence ... but because it is presence in the fullest sense ... it is substantial presence by which Christ, God and man, makes himself wholly and entirely present." (Catechism, no. 1374) 
This reality will come as a news flash to many Catholics. Surveys show that 70 percent of Catholics in the 18 to 44 age group believe the Eucharist is merely a in work; when all seems to go awry, they spend .an hour in prayer before the Blessed Sacrament. This practice has never failed to bear fruit; they experience peace and strength." 
Notre Dame has Eucharistic adora­tion in the Basili.ca on Friday from noon to 5 p.m. and.in Coleman-Morse, Monday through Thursday from noon 
to 7 p.m. Contact senior 
Christina DeHan for infor­
"symbolic reminder" of mation or to sign up. But
"On student 

Christ. This is not sur­you don't have to contact
initiative we have
prising in light of the anybody. Just show up. pathetic state of adoration ... Stay for as long or as short "Catholic" elementary, Monday through a time as you wish. You secondary and higher can pray, read or just
Thursday in the 
education. As Father think. You might ask, John A. Bardon, put it, Coleman-Morse "What am I going to do for "There was never a time chapel." half an hour or fifteen min­
when the world needed to be educated in faith in Christ [and] belief in the Real Presence in the Eucharist, more than today. It is the same Jesus who worked miracles in first century Palestine. He is ready to perform miracles of conversion in our day, provided we believe that He is here with us in the Blessed Sacrament." 
Recent years have seen a resurgence of adoration in parishes and Catholic colleges. When you do it, you will see the reason. 
"People are hungry for God," said Mother Teresa of Calcutta. "When the Sisters are exhausted, up to their eyes 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Wake up Americans 
Do you remember that day during senior year of high school when you got that fat envelope with the Notre Dame seal? Why were we the ones selected from a huge applicant pool? According to Admissions, it wasn't because we were Catholic. 
Instead, each of us showed that we were enthusiastic leaders, crit­ical thinkers and difference-makers. Under this impression, I was upset to read Orlando Rubiano's letter and hear his call for the entire Notre Dame family to define our views entirely in terms of Catholic teaching. Although not all Notre Dame students define themselves religiously as Roman Catholic, most, if not all, of us define ourselves politically as Americans. · 
Catholics strive to live according to Church teaching, but how many succeed? We must remember that there is more to Catholic doctrine than opposing abortion and upholding the sanctity of mar­riage. Among other things we, as Catholics, are called to humble ourselves to the Lord -often difficult to do -take no part in the seven deadly sins -I remind this campus that drunkenness is a form of gluttony -and love all our neighbors, regardless of their faiths. Until each of us can truly live according to all Catholic princi­ples, we cannot expect non-Catholic Americans to live by them as well. · 
Rubino said that Sen. John Kerry's stance on abortion was that of a coward. Although Kerry's position may be weak from a Catholic viewpoint, from an American viewpoint, it is courageous. After all, since when is defending the constitutional rights of Americans a cowardly action? We are proud to call heroes the thousands of Americans who have given their lives defending our rights and free­doms, including freedom from religious tyranny. As we live our lives, I hope that we all remember that we were accepted into Notre Dame because of our ambition to change the world for the better. Each of us will, at one time or another, have the opportunity to do so. Let us use tha·t time to make America, and the world, a better place for all people, not just those who agree with our Catholic beliefs. 
Erin Burns freshman Farley Hall Nov. 10 

utes, just sitting there? 
Suppose I fall asleep?" As Archbishop Fulton J. Sheen noted, "that's the way the Apostles made their first Holy Hour in the Garden." So falling asleep should not be a concern. Just be there to spend time with Christ. 
Why do it? Because it works. When Mother Teresa was asked, "What will convert America and save the world?" she replied: "My answer is prayer. What we need is for every parish to . come beforE• Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament in holy hours of prayer." 
John Paul II has proclaimed the Year of the Eucharist, from October 2004 to 
The turn of the century has provoked a fight for the rights of gays. Ga.y marriage has been· outlawed in almost a dozen states. The Catholic Church has deemed homosexuals morally corrupt, saying 1that it is acceptable for a person to acknowledge to him or herself that he or she is, in fact, a homosexual, but that that person is not allowed to act upon his or her inner acceptance. While homosexual inter­course is being frowned upon by the Church, there are many Catholics who are engaging in adultery. Despite having adultery laws in place in 26 states, there has only been one prosecu­tion in the past five years. Why has the Catholic Church not pushed for a national law criminalizing adultery? Is it not expressly writ­ten in the Ten Commandments? 
There are many who do not fol-October 2005. "During this year," he said, "take the time to kneel before Jesus present in the Eucharist, ... to make reparation ... for the neglect, and even the insults which our Saviour must endure in many parts of the world." 
"Christians," continued John Paul, "should not be afraid to speak about God and to bear proud witness to our faith. The 'culture of the eucharist' promotes a culture of dialogue.... [O]ur troubled world, which began the new millennium with ... terrorism and· ... war, demands that Christians learn to experience the eucharist as a great school of peace, forming men and women who, ... in social, cultural and political life, can become promote.rs of dialogue and communion." John Paul encouraged young people to "[b]ring to your encounter with Jesus, hidden in the eucharist, ....all the enthusiasm of your age, all your hopes, all your desire to love." 
So if politicians don't have all the answers, it might be a good idea to look to someone else. 
Professor Emeritus Charles E. Rice is on the Law School Faculty. His column appears every other Thursday. Contact him at Plawecki.l @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Gay exegesis 
low the ways of the Church's 
'The Bible also 

-teachings. Because of Catholic any religion. Laws are meant to be pressure to control Mormonism, never explicitly created only for moral reasons ­for example, polygamy was out­condemns moral in this case means ethical, lawed nationally. This is a not religious. Humans decided 
homosexual

Western ideal that has no founda­that homosexuality is wrong, not 
tion. in the Bible. After all, did not relationships.,, God, though God will decide who in biblical Greek or Hebrew. In fact, the lan­guages of the time had no word for "sex" at all. With these examples, it is easy to see the mis­translations that often lead to t)1e Biblical text being misconstrued. 
Where would Jesus stand on homosexuals? The Catholic Church would like for us to believe that Jesus would express disapproval of such a group. But, when we examine Jesus' teachings historically, social pariahs of the times, such as prostitutes and lepers, were welcomed. His acceptance of all teaches us to love our neighbors, regardless of their reli­gious belief, or any other view that they hold. How can we force our religious views on peo­ple who do not believe in them? This is the purpose behind the separation of Church and 
State in the Constitution. The gov­
ernment is not allowed to endorse 
the men of Bible have m.[l.ny wives? God did not puni~:h them for their polygamy. The writer of the phrase "the two shall be one flesh" is Moses, who had two wives. The monogamous requirement of marriage started in Roman culture, and had no roots in the Bible. Seeing: this, it is easy to understand how biblical passages are often misinterpreted. 
The Bible also never explicitly condemns homosexual relationships. The passages often cited to denounce homosexuality contain incor­rect translations from the original Greek and Hebrew texts. Research proves that the Revised Standard Version of the Bible, first used in 1946, was the first version of the Bible to use the word homosexual. The word "homo­sexual" itself has no parallel in Hebrew or Greek, and only came into being around one­hundred years ago with the combination of the Greek "homo" and the Latin "sexualis." Translations of the Greek "malakoi" and "arsenokoites" into "effeminate" with regards to homosexual men are equally incorrect. Even sodomy, which has been used to describe the act of homosexual interc-ourse, was not a word will go to heaven and who will 
not. Because of this, it is not right for the Catholic Church to ostracize a portion of society that does not follow its teachings. 
The Church cannot continue to condemn the gay lifestyle through the advocacy of laws that govern people who do not always believe in the Catholic faith. It is important that the Church recogniz'es that gays are people. Biblical pas­sages that are cited in support of why homo­sexuality is morally wrong are mistranslations and therefore misinterpretations. I am not gay, but I believe that gays should receive the equal rights the Constitution guarantees to every American. I urge America as a whole to accept the gay community for what it is. There are too many misconceptions about gays. Just as race and gender should have no place in how peo­ple are viewed, neither should sexual orienta­tion. It is time for a new rights movement­one that accepts all people as they are. 
Gregory Dworjan freshman Morrissey Hall Nov. 10 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Thursday, November 11, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEWS 

Fans get a dose of Lennon unplugged 
By JULIE BENDER Scen.e Music Critic 
Pulling things apart to see what is on tlw inside oftm1 fascinat<1S little kids. Tlwy want to know what makns a clock ti\'.k, or how a gumhall pops out when you put a J>Pnny in tlw maehinn. 
It happnns that musk fans as wnll take innocnnt dPiight in hearing songs stripp(HI to tlwir· barn boned, outtake versions. At limns fans havn taken this delight to nxtrnnws. like thn rumored circulation of tapes containing nothing 1110n1 than Bob Dylan's lwavy breathing. Most fans, howevnr, prize the musical side of tlwir favorite artist's "unplug­ging." .John Lennon fans arn thn latest to be treated to songs stripped down to tlwir d(1mo-versions with the rPiease of "Acoustic." 
Every ynar, between thn anniversaries of Lnnnon's birthday in October and his death in December, his widow Yoko Ono releases a collection of songs in his remembrance. This year marks what would have been Lennon's 64th birthday and the 24th year since his death, and "Acoustic" is Ono 's fitting tribute to her late husband. 

The album is a collection of 16 songs from Lennon's solo-era songbook. Although most of tlwse versions have bmm rel(1ased before. primarily on "The .John Lennon Anthology," there are seven tracks seen here for the first time, including "Cold Turkey," "Real Love" and a cutting "Working Class llero." 
This unplugged, acoustic arrangement is a suitable and flattering format for Lnnnon 's songs. Known for his honest and direct lyrics, the minimal guitar aceompaniment delivers Lennon's voice with an endearing clarity. Making the album even more attraetive is the know!­

edge that L(~nnon was self-conscious about his voice. On polished recordings he often mixed his own vocal tracks, obscuring the natural sound of his voice. On "Acoustic." however, fans get to hear Lennon raw and untaint!1d. 
Althciugh some of the album tracks seem to be throwaway numbers -the dosing track of nothing more than Lennon whistling -there are S(Weral good moments on the album that make it worthwhile. 
The album's highpoint is a touching version of "Watching the Wheels." Originally released on the "Double Fantasy" album, this song is a plaintive del'ensn of Lennon's withdrawal from the rock 'n' roll scene in the late 1970s. Ilappily married and tending to his new­born son during this time, Lennon was criticized by fans for abandoning his music. With "Watching the Wheels," Lennon defends himself singing, ''I'm just sitting here watching the wheels go 'round and 'round I I really love to watch them roll I No longer riding on the merry-go-round I I just had to let it go." 
·Fans will also like the live version of "Imagine," where Lennon re-creates the piano song on his guitar. This song, which has become a worldwide anthem for peace, is givnn a new innocnnce when played acoustieally. The faint sound of the audi~mcP accompanying Lennon on thn chorus, "You may say I'm a dreamer I But I'm not the only one I I hope someday you'll join us I And the world will live as one," adds to the poignancy of this agelnss song. 
Other good tracks on Acoustic are "Heal Love," which the Beatles released 

Photo courtesy of www.johnlennon.it 
John Lennon fans will find "Acoustic" 
a welcome addition to their CD col­
lections. 
on Anthology II, "The Luck of the Irish," a song decrying thn British for their abuses on Irnland, the stark opener "Working Class llero" and the haunting "My Mummy's Dead." 
For those who arn unfamiliar with· Lennon's solo work. it would be better to start with one of his oth11r albums in order to appreciatn "Acoustic." For vet­eran Lennon fans, however, "Acoustic" will bn a weleome addition to the album collec~tion. Guitar playnrs will f'ind thP album ospecially appealing with the inclusion of the actual tablaturn Lnnnon used, and a chord chart for thn songs. "Acoustic" allows fans to unplug and lis­tnn to Lnnnon in a rwwfound purity, and musieians will be able to acoustieize right along with him. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 
Jin's debut hits and misses 
By KENYATTA STORIN Assi,tant Scene Editor 
.fin is not your avc1rage, run-of-tlw-mill rappnr. Aflnr all, hn's ChinnsP~Am!•rkan. 
.fin first appnarPd on thn hip-hop scmw wlu•n lw won SPVPral fmnstyling compnti­tions on BI·:T's "]()(,and Park's Frnnstyln Fridays." As a rPstiiL. he gained a ).,'TPat d~ml ol' rnspnd in thn NPw York undnrground rap sr.PJiP, ami was PVPntually ·ofliwnd a eontmd by Bull' Bvders. · 
· Thn N(:W York-bm;nd Hull' Hydnrs. home to rapJWI'S likP llMX, Ew and .Jadakiss, was onen an unstoppabiP l'orc~n in tlw latn 90s wlwn I>MX was al tlu~ pnak of' his powers. llownvnr. t.he group's popularity has dwin­dled ovnr the years, and only a few of' its nwmbnrs haw senn mw~h sueeess rneently. A'i a rnsult. it is not surprising Hull' Hyders dPddPd to takn a d1anen and sign Jin to his lirst rPcord dmtl. 

Once Jin became a Hull' Hyder, he c~ame out with the single, "Learn Chinese" at the end of 2003, which quickly bneame an underground sueeess. Doe to his Chinese etlmidty and growing undorground popular­itv, lw started to reePive some media attnn­tirm, including a positiw writt1-up in the New York Times. Evnrytl1ing snomnd to be going .lin's way, and his debut album was slatnd liJr an Odobnr 20m releasn. Unlhrtunately. due to snveral delays in production. Hull' Hyders mL'isnd tim opportunity to capitalizn on .lin's growing popularity, and it was not until this past October that his debut, "Thn Hest is llistory." finally materialized. 
Of course the question L'i, was it worth the wait? The answer is yes and no. 
More than anything else, Jin uses his Chinese baekground to distinguish himself from his penrs, tl1rowing out lines like "I ain't your 50 Cent, I ain't your Eminem, I ain't your Jigga Man, I'm a (]1ina man" and "This ain't Bruee Lee, ya'll watch too much TV" At times he also gel'i serious about hL<> expnri­nnecls as a Chinnse-Anwrican, rnltlfring to his strugglns as an aspiring rappnr ("In evnry rap bat.tln, the racn-eard was my downlitll"). lost love ("Then reality attacks I his pops couldn't s11e p<L'it I The fact his son wa'i A'iian but his girlli-icmd W<L'i black") and problmns in China ("Overpopulation. but dcunn just to nwet tlw rweds I It's illegal to havn morn than one send"). 

Although Jin provides a rntu·.h-iwnded li-nsh pPrspectivn lor hip-hop, his rapping is rather ordinary at times. There are instancns when hn lalls in the trap of using the same rhyming sehnmes and patterns ovnr and over, whir.h causes his flows to sometimes beeome repetitive. Furthcnnor11, despite having witty lines here and there, for a renowned freestyler the album a'i a whole lacks the deverness one would expect. 
I Iowcver, the album's biggest flaws are actually the fault of Huff' Hyders, which tries too hard to commercialize the album for mainstream popularity. Even with popular producers like Just Blaze and Kanye West on board, several of the songs sound forced and generic because of plain pop beats, mundane content and dull, unoriginal choruses. This is quite evident on tracks like "Club Song," where Jin repetitively says, "This rr.y club song, this my dub song" and "I Got a Love," where Kanye West rehashed one of his old beats. Even the single that put Jin on the map, "Learn Chinese" has a rather cheesy beat by Wyclef Jean. 
Jin is dearly at his best on tracks where he is not forced to conform to Ruff Ryders' ideas. Jin sounds much better on cuts like "Love Story," "C'mon" and "Thank You" where he sounds like he is coming from the heart, rather than trying to fit a certain mold. 

Photo courtesy of mtv.com 
Jin is the latest addition to the New York-based rap group Ruff Ryders. 
But even thesn songs Jack the innovation and production to be true highlighL'i. 
Jin daims he is "a threat to every rapper· in the game or that's ever been it," but that is cnrtainly not the case on "The Hest is History." Whiln he shows signs of hi'i poten­tial throughout, tllis is not an album that will make much of a dent in the hip-hop main­stream. Despite this, it is not entirnly his fault the album falters, since many of thn album's flaws are the result of Hull' Ryders' produc­tion decisions. Hopefully Jin will have more creative control on his nnxt album, so he can tailor his rhymes in a way more suitable for him. Then hip-hop fans will· know for sure whether or not Jin will leave his mark on hlp-hop or just be a forgettable gimmick. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 

THE 0BSERV'ER 
CENE
Thursday, November 11, 2004 page 13 

ALBUM REVIEWS 
Rascal Flatts still on fire 
By COURTNEY WILSON Scene Music Critic 
With the release of "Feels like Today," Rascal Flatts naturally main­tains its standing as one of the hottest groups in country music today. Five years into its recording career and these multi-platinum simgsters have already achieved numerous billboard hits and music awards. Voted by both the CMA and ACM as a top vocal group, it has produced three soulful and highly acclaimed records. With their stellar good looks, and ever so charming vocals, the members of Bascal Flatts have come to represent a new wave of refreshing pop-country. 
After its release five weeks ago, "Feels like Today" had rapidly climbed its way to the number one spot on the Country Music Billboard Chart and has since maintained a top 
position on the countdown. This week the group comes in at a not so shabby number six, dropping two spots from last week. For Rascal Flatts fans, this should ccime as no surprise. The guys have developed an identifiable sound, well liked for its animated harmonies and communicative lyrics. Like most country artists, the group's songs are characteristically about lil'e and love. Distinctively, however, the members of Rascal Flatts reflect positively on the past, live in the moment, and con­vey confidence toward the future. 
The female audience is sure to respond to this album in that, the majority of the songs portray men in the not so common role of starry-eyed romantics. "Bless the Broken Hoad," tells of the narrator's journey to find­ing his soul mate. It is easily the best song on the entire CD. The chorus is a touching reaction, which repeats "Every long lost dream, lead me to 
Feels Like Today Rascal Flatts 
Lyric Street 




where you are, others who broke my heart they were like the Northern Star, pointing me on my way into your loving arms. This much I know is true, that God blessed the broken road that led me straight to you." 
Traditionally, the Rascal Flatts audi­ence has been made up of predomi­nately young females. With each album, this being the third, the group has progressively matured in its music, and additionally broadened its fan base. Previously released hits such as ''I'm Movin' On," and "These Days," wore clearly geared to a more adult audience. The majority of its songs, however, and especially those on "Feels Like Today;" are interpre­tive and can be widely appre'eiated by most agn groups. 
Hascal Flatts' devotees will enjoy "Here's to You," a fun song dedicated to every type of fan, calling them, "You're the heart and the soul, and the reason we do what we do." 
"Fast Cars and Freedom," as well as "Oklahoma-Texas Line" are two of the more upbeat and 'twangy' tracks you can find on the CD. 
Country boys Gary LeVox, Jay DeMurac and Joe Don Hooney are an undeniably talented and involved group of singers. So much so that they have eo-produced their albums, played their own instruments and col­laborated to create a collection of personal lyrics that hones their suc­cessfully re eogn izab le sound. Comparable. but not limited to. a boy band imago, the trio works perfectly in unison with each other, comple­menting one another's individual styles. 
The album "Fenls like Today," is just another hit album the guys can taek on to their fast growing list of chart toppers. 
Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu 
Stray light Run debut an instant classic 
By MICHELE JEFFERS Scene Music Critic 
Jnhn Nolan and Shaun Cooper took a big chance with their careers when they left Taking Bac~k Simday at the height of its succ!'ss in 2003, but they were com­pr~lled by irreconcilable artistic differ­ences with the band. However, separa­tion proved to make Nolan and Cooper's art grow fonder as they teamed up with former Breaking Pangea drummer Will Noon, and Nolan's younger sister, Michelle Nolan, on keyboard and back­ground vocals to form Straylight Hun. Without even releasing an album, Straylight Run has already acquired a loyal following from extensive touring and from making the demo songs avail­able online for free. 
On Oct. 12, however, the band finally released its highly anticipated debut album on Victory Heeords. With mostly piann and guitar-driven tracks, Straylight Hun's self-titled album pro­gresses in a very different direction from Taking Back Sunday. Whereas John was previously known for his intense screaming in back up for TBS, he main­tains more composure on lead vocals, while still earnestly delivering moving inflection throughout the album. Simplicity and sincerity prevail over ostentatious outbursts in Straylight Run's music, yet manages to affect you just as strongly. 
Ironically, the first song on the album is called "The Perfect Ending." 

Accompanied by the piano and under­used glockenspiel, a slightly wistful John rel1ects ttpon the differences that led to the division in Taking Back Sunday. Bather than pointing blame, John reveals tl1e band's acceptance with the past as he sings, "And if it's over/Just remembPr what I tpld ya/lt was bound to happen so jusVKeep moving on/ There's no perfed endings." Despite the title, this song is the perfect beginning for the album by creating a sense of closure with the past and by affirming an identi­ty independent of Taking Back Sunday. 
Straylight Hun picks up the pace on the second track, "The Tension and the Terror." The energy of this flowing melody is continually driven up as John passionately delivers lyrics capturing one's inabjlity to move beyond the fear and anxiety that gets in one's way of fol­lowing his heart. 
The very title of the next track, howev­er, necessitates moving past the tension and the il3rror because we are the one's who control our lives and destinies. "Existentialism on Prom Night" begins softly with the piano on solo, but it is immediatElly intensified with the abrupt entrance of John's voice, which is pro­pelled by the percussion. "Exist­entialism" is an absolutely beautiful song that manages to convey the ineffable feeling that everything in your world is perfectly in balance. Both Michelle and John bring you into an enchanting rap­ture as they repeat, "Sing me something sof1J Sad and delicate/ or loud and out of key/ sing me anything/ we're glad for what we've go1J done with what we've lost/ Our whole lives laid out right in front of us." 
Michelle shows that talent definitely runs in the family as she steps up to lead vocals on two tracks. After the dreamv little number, "Your Name Here (Sunrise_ Highway)," Straylight Hun shakes things up when Michelin takes lead vocal in "Tool Sheds and Hot Tubs," which resembles a dance song by Kylie Minogue. However, Michelle best demon­strates her capability as a lead vocalist through her haunting delivery of "Now it's Done," in which she laments over the "memories of what didn't last." In short, this CD is absolutely incredible and should be at the very top of your Christmas lists this year. Straylight Hun is the result of the members' commit­ment to fulfilling their vision, which has materialized into something that is defi­nitely worth the long wait for its realiza­tion. The album evades predictability and keeps you pulled in until the very end. It gets five shamrocks not only because of its amazing music, but also because of Straylight Hun's enormous potential. As long as the members of Straylight Run maintain the sincerity and vision that has brought them to where they are today, there is no doubt that these existentialists will carve out a bright future. 
Contact Michele Jeffers at mjeffers@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November II, 2004 
NFL 
·-New Dolphins coach Bates gets troubled team 
Associated Press 
DAYIH. Fla. -The last time .Jim Bates was head coach of a football team, it was with the San Antonio (;unsling~~rs of the USFI.. In JIJX!i. 
The Miami Dolphins' nnw interim roach expncts some things have changed. 
"I know I'm going to get paid this time," joki1CI Bates before Wedrwsday's practkn. 
Bates is surP to get his monny. hut what sort of prod uetion h{~ gets from the Dolphins ( 1-X) is anotlwr matter after Dave Wannstndt rnsigrwd Tunsday in t.lw middle of his fifth season. Tlw ieam has a bye this wenk lwfore playing SeattlP on Nov. 
21. 
Batns inhnrits prohlnms at quarterback and on thn ofTnn­sive and dPfnnsivt~ lines. and must deal with tlw ill-tinwd penalties, turnover·s and droppnd passes that have arflktml the Dolphins all sea­son. 
lie said he had trouble sleep­ing knowing lw was going to wakn up Wednesday as the Dolphins' firth lwad coach in their :lX-year history, following (;norge Wilson. Don Shula, .Jimmy .Johnson and Wannstedt. 
"I woke up thinking about all wn had talked about ... at 4:30. bright-eyed. I set it for 5," he said 
A longtime defensive assistant who has worked with such accomplished coaches as Bill Bnlichick, Frank Kush and Johnny Majors, Bates has only onn othnr head coaching job hnsidt~s the Gunslingers on his rnsumn -at Sevier County lligh School in Tennessee. 
lin's also been defensivfl coor­dinator for the Atlanta Faleons and a position coach with the Cltweland Browns and Dallas Cowboys. 
Known for a fiery, enthusias­tic coaching style. Bates has built a defense that finished sixth. firth. third and IOth in the lnague since hn took over in 2000. Currnntly, the Dolphins rank sevnnth. 
But his eyes lit up when talk­ing about sitting in Wednesday on his first offensive meeting in 20 years and being able to interact with the complete 53­man roster. 
"I told the guys, 'Man, this is easy over on this side of the ball," Batnsjoked. 
"It's nxciUng for me to able to move around and motivate all the players." 


Players said Wednesday's "He was just into everything McMichael said. workout was set to a quicker today. lie was catering to every Bates said any personntd tempo than under Wannstedt position and basically sat there deeisions, such as whetlwr Jay and praised Bates for his and just talked with us to find Fiedler or A.J.. Feeley will start demeanor during morning out what we were thinking at quarterback against Stmttle, meetings and practice. about," tight end Handy would be made next week. 
MLB 
Baseball might be ready to take a look at instant replay 
Now, after a pennant race and "I don't see it," Bob Watson, talked about it internally for a from the game. 
Idea will be brought 
postseason dottnd with reversed vice president of on-field opera­couple of years, and they've "Baseball is very traditional,_ up at GM meetings rulings, baseball will get annUl­tions, said Wednesday. "And I heard from other clubs lately. but I'm not going to rule it out," 
er chance to see who else wants don't think the commissioner is "I think there seems to be he said. 
to give replay a look. in favor of it, either." some level of understanding Garcia worried that nut every Associated Press The topic is on the agenda for Earlier in the da¥, GMs were that getting the play right is ballpark would be equipped Thursday at the GM meetings. briefed on plans to play a spring what underscores this thought with equal cameras to show 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. -Brian And there seems to be growing training game next March in process," Reds GM Dan O'Brien replays from all angles. lie also Cashrnau wanted to make this support among teams to join Athens -Baltimore probably said. "I don't think any of us said he thought the concept of perfectly dear: The umpires the NFL, NBA and NIIL in using would be involved -and efforts have any idea of a timetable." umpires huddling on close calls were correct when they called instant replay on calls such as to hold a World Cup-style tour­Said Brad Kullman, the Reds' helped "take away the idea of Alex Hodriguez out for interfer­fair or foul and homer or not, nament in early 2006. director of major league opera­instant replay." ence on that crazy play during but definitely not balls and They also talked about letting tions: "It doesn't make sense Garcia was involved in one of the AL championship series. strikes. teams trade first-round draft that you might have a million the most disputed calls in 
"They got it completely right, "I think its time has come," choices and were told to be vigi­fans out there watching on TV October memory. He was work­I00 percent," the New York Milwaukee assistant Gord Ash lant in verifying the ages of and knowing what happened ing the right-field line in the Yankees' general manager said said. "The technology has players signed in the Dominican while the umpires huddle with­1996 ALCS when young fan this wnek. improved and is there. I think Republic and Venezuela. out that benefit." Jeffrey Maier reached over the 
"But you would hate to have a there's a place for it." But with so many procedural That said, there's no guaran­wall and grabbed the ball gamt~, or a series or even a sea­Even if replay comes up for a issues to sift through this week, tee that umpires would want it. before Baltimore's Tony Tarasco son come down to a play where formal vote -it did not go very the prospect of adding instant "My sense is no," said former could make a play, and it they miss it and instant replay far last year when GMs debated replay is intriguing. ump Hichie Garcia, now an wound up as a home run for could have hnlpnd," he said. "So it -there's no assurance it The Cincinnati Reds asked umpire supervisor. "I think we'd Derek Jeter. as far as instant replay, I'm in would show up during games that replay be included on the be fooling around with some­This year, the umps eventual­favor of it." anytime soon. agenda. Their executives have thing that would take away ly did make the right calls. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
For Sale: ND football tix. Good Apartment for rent 2 br, partially fur-6-7 bdrm house on S.B.Ave SPRING BREAK with Bianchi-Rossi Spring Break 2005 with prices. 232-0964. nished, desirable North Shore across from radio tower available Tours! 
NOTICES Triangle neighborhood, 1.25 mi for 06-07.' STS, Wanted: ND football tix. Top $$$ from campus, second semester · Completely renovated,large Over 18 years of Spring Break 251-1570. special $400/mo plus electric, 233-rooms,3 full baths. experience! Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. 
Moving to Chicago? Sublease in 1604 ND Ave house w/5bdrms available Hiring campus reps. 4br Lincoln Park apt. w/3 ND grads. ND ftball tix bought & sold a.m. for 05-06. The BEST Spring Break Under the $575/mo, open Dec. 1. Call Andy @ 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 DOMUS PROPERTIES· Will lease to as few as 3 Sun! Call for group discounts. 312-371·4415 NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006 students, good location & competi-
NEED TICKETS Nov. 13 Pitt. Call SCHOOL YEARS. live rent. Email Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan-Cacun Info/Reservations Amy 219-872-5932 ONLY 6 HOUSES LEFT. WELL ndhouses@yahoo.com & Cabo. MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR 1-800-648-4849
FoR SALE 
CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 BEDROOM Organize a group-Go Free! HOUSES, STUDENT NEIGHBOR-www.ststravel.com
FoR RENT PERSONAL
Plan your next trip! VW EUROVAN HOODS,SECURITY SYSTEMS, 800-875-4525 or pop-top camper 1999 Sleeps 4 273-MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL, How's your dart time? 9959 Leave a phone number. 2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 WASHER, DRYERS. Spring break 2005 www.bianchi-rossi.com 
Walking distance from ND VISIT OUR WEBSITE Challenge ... find a better price! Diane and Doyle, Gently worn ND winter hip length MMMRentals.com 532-1408 WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR Lowest price specials! Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Will you be my friend? jacket. XL $60. 233-2431. CONTACT: Free Meals! Party Cruise! 
6-7 BDRM HOME CLOSE TO ND. KRAMER (574)234-2436 OR November 6th deadline! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Watch out SC WID, ON-SITE PARKING. AVAIL. (574)315-5032. Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau. AFTER 6/1/05. ALSO: 3 BDRM. Hiring reps-earn free trips and cash! Jamaica From $459! Panama City I don't have anything now.
TICKETS 
HOME,W/D,NEAR MISHAWAKA 2-3 bedroom,2.5 & Daytona $1591 
CORBYS/ST.JOE CHURCH. bath, 1,200 sq. II+ full basement+ www.sunsplashtours.com It's a pizza party! BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIXPLEASE AVAIL. NOW. CALL JOE GRIM-2-car garage, $875/mo. 574-273-www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1­CHECK MY PRICES 273-3911 MINS:574-229-3659 OR 679-2010. 9000. 1-800-426-771 0 800-678-6386 Larry King shoulders 


The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
MLB 
Red Sox alumni salute World Series champs 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Pedro Martinez, Jason Varitek and more than a doz!'n other Hed Sox free agents might want to take advicP from some pnople who know: Stay in Boston, or you'll regret_it. 
"It would be hard to walk away from this city," former Red Sox pitcher Bruce Hurst said before posing for pieturns with the World. Seri<1s trophy. "I would vnnture to guess that thny_'d 1~1iss it more than they'd realize. 
Hurst was inducted into the HPd Sox Ilall of Fame on Wmlnesday night, an opportuni­ty to get together with former tPammates such as Wade Boggs and wallow in the tnam's reefmt success. 
But even as they celebrated the end of one of sports' most ignominious streaks, the ex-Red Sox knew the business of the offseason was in full swing. Boston has 16 free agents, and there is virtually no way the team will keep all of them. 
Hurst knows all about leaving Boston. After the Red Sox came within one strike of ending their championship drought in 1986, he returned to the playoffs with them in '88 but opted to sign with San Diego that offseason. 
At the time, the Padres had an up-and-coming team. But Hurst soon realized the passion and intensity there didn't match what he'd experienced in Boston. 
"We had a million come out [for a parade] and we lost," he said. "I always said 1 couldn't imagine what it would be if we won." 
Hurst doesn't have to imagine anymore, with many more than that turning out for the victory parade last month after the Hed Sox swept the St. Louis Cardinals for their first World Series title since 1918. 
"We don't have to wait until next year," said Boggs, another inductee and another player who left Boston as a free agent. 
"Hopefully, I won't have to look at [video oil myself crying on the bench again," he said, referring to the '86 loss to the New York Mets. "Now when you talk about the Red Sox World Series, the main focus will be from 2004. 
"They won't have to bring up all the bad things." 
Hall of Fame pitcher Dennis Eckersley, a 20-game winner with the Red Sox in 1978, said all the bad things help make this year's win so special. 
"If we had won in '78, I prob­ably wouldn't have understood all the agony they go through up here," he said. "I think you have to spend some time here. You can't just come in and out. 
"You get it pretty quick, though." 
And that's what makes play­ing in Boston different from other places, former outfielder Bernie Carbo said. 



"I would stay here and take less money, or take what I need," he said. "You'll never find a better organization, a better town, a better ballpark. 
"My advice would be to stay here, continue to win, continue to be a family." 
Carbo was honored by the Red Sox Hall of Fame for hitting· the tying home run in Game 6 of the 1975 Series, setting the stage for Carlton Fisk's more famous game-winner in the 12th inning. 
Inducted with Boggs, Eckersley and 'Hurst during the dinner at the Boston Convention and Exhibition Center were: 
Bill Carrigan, who won three World Series as a catcher from 1906-16. He was the player­manager from 1913-16 and manager from 1927-29. 
Jimmy Collins, a third base­man and manager from 1901­06 who led the Red Sox to a World Series victory in 1903. 
Billy Goodman, a lifetime .300 hitter who won the AL batting title in 1950 with a .354 aver­age and finished second in MVP voting that year. 
Pawtucket Red Sox owner Ben Mondor, who turned the Triple A team into one of the minor leagues' most successful franchises. 


--------------~~ 

page 16 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 11, 2004 
-
Coleman-Morse Center 574-631-7800
Campus Ministry 
ministry.1 @nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu 
thursday_ 11.11 
Right to Life Cemetary of the Innocents Through Friday Evening South Quad 
triday_ 11.12 
Sign-Ups for Retreats: Freshman Retreat #55 (Nov. 19-20) Freshman Retreat #56 
(Dec. 3-4) Applications are available in 114 CoMo or online at 
cam~usminist!)l.nd.edu! 
saturday 11.13 
Handbell Choir Concert 
10:00 am Eck Alumni Welcome Center 
Folk Choir Concert for the Missions 8:30pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

monday_ 11.1s 
Eucharistic Adoration 12:00 noon-7:00pm Every Monday-Thursday Coleman-Morse Chapel 

after the game... 
lne Notre Dan1e Folk Choir -preser1~­
Aye~ 

1n the · 
life~ 
Notr~,· 
Concert for the Missions 
-Basilica of the Sacred Heart ­Saturday, November 13 -8:30 PM 

mass schedule 
BasWca of the Sacred Heart Thirty-Third Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Saturday. November 13 
Vigil Mass at the Basilica 30 minutes after the Game Rev. James K. Foster, esc 
Vigil Mass at Stepan Center 45 minutes after the Game Rev. William M. Lies, esc 
tuesday_ 11.16 
Advent Bible Study Tuesdays thru Dec 7 7:00 -8:00pm Drop-Ins Welcome! Coleman-Morse 114 
wednesday 11.11 

"Crossing Over" American & African Students Share Reflections on their Cross-Cultural Experiences 
6:00pm with Dinner Provided Coleman-Morse Lounge 
/Four:7/ Contemporary 

Christian Prayer Service 10:00pm Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Theology on Tap 10:00pm Legends -Clubside 
thursday_ 11, 18. 
Prayer from Around the World Series Muslim Prayer 7:00pm Coleman-Morse 330 

sunday, November 14 
8:00 am Rev. Nicholas R. Ayo, esc 
10:00 am Rev. James K. Foster, esc 
11:45am Rev. William M. Lies, esc 
considerations... 
Calling All Men 
by Greg Ruehlmann Intern, Campus Ministry · 
Some things in life are constant. 
Take gravity, for example. A football (or marshmallow) hurled into the air at 
Notre Dame Stadium is bound to come down somewhere. 
Math has givens as well. A one-dollar hamburger plus a one-dollar soda 
equals a two-dollar lunch (unless we're at Reekers, in which case it equals ten 
dollars). 

But there is one fact that history proves to be more constant than anything 
else. More certain than the rising and setting of the sun, it is this: we can't get 
men to sign up for retreats. 
This has held true since the very first retreat, which happened in prehistoric 
times, when two cavewomen approached their male friends. "Thag and Ook," 
they said, "we have a wonderful idea! It's called a 'retreat.' A group of us will come 
together to talk about God, share our feelings, renew the spirituality which sustains 
our existence, and in the process make new cave-friendships and strengthen old 
ones! Isn't that great?" 
Thag and Ook grunted. On the whole, they were skeptical of sharing. Also, they were in the middle of crushing the heads of some antelope with a big rock. 
"You two are something else," the cavewomen exclaimed. "Don't act like it wouldn't be good for you, and a lot of fun! What's more important in life than God? Besides, it's healthy for us to get away from work and stress on occasion. And it's definitely not healthy to keep your feelings bottled up!" 
Thag and Ook made a cavepainting about elephant dung and laughed at it for an hour. When they were finished, Ook grunted, then said to the cavewomen, "Sorry, we've got heads to crush.'' 
As you can see, some things never change. Here we are in the year A.D. 2004 and many men still hesitate to go on retreat. Excuses vary: too much homework, too busy, too tired, too much tou.chy-feely stuff. 
This is surprising, because no guy I've ever met regretted going on a Campus Ministry retreat. Whether it's Freshman Retreat, Sophomore Road Trip, Senior Retreat, NDE or Man's Weekend, there's something for everyone and they're all a guaranteed good time and much-needed break from our crazy schedules. The beauty of a retreat is that it's whatever you want to make of it. If you need reflection time, make it happen. If you need a community to support you and help you talk some things out, it's right there. 
More than once as an undergrad, a retreat weekend proved to be the defining event of a semester for me. So guys, if you've enjoyed the retreat experience like I have, it's time for us to talk it up and challenge the excuses. Encourage your friends and dorm mates to go on retreat. And for you guys who haven't gone yet, it's time to man up and join the club. If you need any more incentive to go, just remember that the cavewoman-to-caveman ratio is definitely in our favor. 

Around Campus (every Sunday) 
1:30pm  5:00pm  7:00pm  
Spanish Mass  Law School Mass  MBA Mass  
St. Edward's  Law School Chapel  Mendoza COB  
Hal/Chapel  Faculty Lounge  


Thursday, November 11, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
McNair frustrated chest is still sore after rest 

Associated Press 

NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Steve McNair wants to help .his Tennessee Titans start winning games while redeeming his own sub-par performance this sea­son. 
Now if only his chest would stop hurting whenever he gets out of bed or throws a pass. 
The NFL's co-MVP of 2003 has played through pain from a list of injuries, but he said Wednesday he still can't take a direct hit 2 1/2 weeks after being knocked out of the Titans' 20-3 loss at Minnesota on Oct. 
24. 

"I'm trying to fight through some of the pain and get some throwing in. The thing we're worried about now is, 'Can I take a hit?' If I do take the right hit, it's going to knock me out two to three more weeks," McNair said. 
"That's the Catch-22 we're working with right now." 
McNair was able to throw passes in a one-on-one drill and in a seven-on-seven drill Wednesday, his first work with 
teammates since his latest injury. 
The Titans (3-5) listed him as questionable yet again on their injury report, and coach Jeff Fisher called McNair's limited passing "encouraging." l-Ie said the quarterback's availability will be a game-time decision Sunday against Chicago (3-5). 
'The issue is not throwing the football or running around with the ball, doing those kinds of things. The concern is just a hit," Fisher said. "We want to make sure it's not going to set him back, and any kind of con­tact is going to set him back." 
McNair is frustrated by this latest injury because he came back within two weeks after hn first bruised his sternum in 2000 in a victory over Kansas City. 
He spent two nights in the hospital after being knocked out of a loss to Jacksonville on Sept. 26; which caused him to sit out a loss to San Diego the next week. Then he was caught in a high-low hit on the first play of the second quarter at Minnesota. 

Henson.still vvaiting for chance~ to take charge in Dallas 
' 

As the quarterback of the "Have a little patience and quickly that two weeks ago he now."
Former Yankee set to 
future for the Dallas Cowboys, know things are going to work was promoted from emergency OK, so it's not a quarterback Henson is playing his role to out the way they're supposed quarterback to backup and is controversy. It's more like a
replace Testaverde 
perfection. Then again, he's had to," he said. now the focus of heated debate waiting game. plenty of experience doing the Henson has been reminding about when he should make his Experience is helping Henson Associated Press star-in-waiting thing, first in himself of that a lot lately. · NFL debut. handle it. Such as when he college at Michigan, then as a Three years after playing his Coach Bill Parcells would thinks about doing for Dallas 
IRVING, Texas -Drew top prospect for the New York last football game, Henson was have preferred to avoid the dis­what Ben Roethlisberger is Henson knows the drill: pay Yankees. supposed to spend this season cussion because that would've doing for Pittsburgh, all Henson attention, work hard, say all the The biggest lesson he learned easing back into the sport. But meant the Cowboys were doing has to do is think back to what right things. from those other gigs? he's knocked the rust off so just fine without him. Instead, happened with the Yankees. 
Dallas (3-5) and "There's a fine 



You can't go straight from college to retirement. 
Monstei-TRAK® will help you fill in those pesky middle years with a great career. It's the #I online career site for students and alumni looking for jobs and internships. Search a wide range of job postings, get job hunting tips, check out employer information and more. So you can find the perfect job, and make some friends your own age. Register now. It's free and easy. 
monster-TRAK® 

today's the day~ lwww.ndsmcobserver.com/career 
has lost four of its line between last five games, "Have a little wanting to go with starter Vinny patience and know and play and Testaverde throw-believing that it's
things are going to 
. ing more intercep­your opportunity 
tions ( 1 0) than work out." and fore'ing the 
touchdowns (nine). issue, that if it 
Henson talk Drew Henson doesn't happen moved to the fore-right now you'refront Sunday fol-Cowboys quarterback 
going to get dis­lowing a 26-3 loss appointed," he at Cincinnati. It started with said. "I wanted to get to New Tcstaverde getting picked off York so badly in baseball that I throe times and losing a fumble, probably dido 't enjoy the then gained momentum when process and didn't relax and team owner Jerry Jones said just play. That's the one thing tho team would have to evalu­that coming here I'm making atl~ "where we are at quarter­sure I do." bark." Henson said he does that by · Parcells, though, is in no focusing on the things he can 
hurry to make a  control, like study­ 
change, adamant­ ing the playbook  
ly saying Monday he's "certainly not doing it now or in the foreseeable  "I wanted to get to New York so badly ... that I  and making the most of his fnw opportunities in practice. What he's  
future." His reasons start with the fact  probably didn't enjoy the process. "  not doing is think­ing about when he's going to take  
Testaverde  over.  
reached the mid- Drew Henson  Yet Jones' com­ 
point of the sea­son more than  Cowboys quarterback  ments Sunday got . everyone talking  
halfway  to  the  about it Monday.  

club's single-season passing When Henson arrived at his record. There's also loyalty to locker, he quickly discovered Testaverde and the logicin put­reporters gathered there ting an 18-year_ veteran in weren't just waiting for charge of an offense with a Testa verde. woeful running game and a Henson didn't mind. group of mostly unproven He picked Dallas to continue receivers. his tour nation's most presti­
Add a schedule featuring the gious sports institutions, fully next two games against two of realizing how bright the spot­the NFL's most ferocious defens­light would be. es, Philadelphia and Baltimore, "One year everyone was say­and ever-so-slim playoff hopes, ing, 'You're the next great and you understand why Yankee,' then two months later Parcells says "only foolish peo­they were saying, 'Can this kid ple would ask the question right play?'" he said. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November II, 2004 
OLYMPICS 
USADA bans Jerollle Young for life after second viola ton 
Associated Press d uced at the 2000 Sydney squad received gold medals, the International Association of Track & Field. "It's certainly 
l>ENVIiH -Sprinter .Jnrome (;ames. Sprinter Kelli White but Young's was stripped. Athletics Federations {IAAF), tragic if Jerome or any other Young, a eontral figure in a admittnd shu used EPO and Other members of the team has recommended declaring athlete made the decision to doping t:asn that eould eost tho otht~r performance-enhancing include 30-year-old Alvin the entire Sydney relay team cheat." 
U.S. relay toam its gold modal drugs oarlier this year when !Iarrison, who accepted a four­ineligible because of Young. Darryl Seibel, a spokesman from Sydrwy, was banned for she accoptnd a two-year ban year suspension in Octobnr for Last month, the U.S. Olympic for the USOC in nearby lifo by the U.S. Anti-Doping for doping. drug violations uncoven~d in Committee challenged the rec­, Colorado Springs, said Young's Agency on Wed rwsday follow­Young, 2H, tested positive t:or the BALCO case. Harrison.'s ommendation in a petition suspension should not affect ing his soeond positive test for the storoid nandrolone in twin and Sydnny teammate, lodged with the Court of the case pending before the a banned drug. 11JIJIJ. but was exom~ratod by a Calvin llarrison, is serving a Arbitration for Sport in Court of Arbitration for Sport. 
Young tnstt~d positive for 1\1'0 U.S. appeals panel in July two-year suspension for testing Lausanne, Switzerland. Young, "We have comp.lete confi­at a Paris mnet in .July, USADA 2000, avoiding a two-year ban. positive for drugs linked to the who has denied ever using a dence in the fairness of CAS said. lin is lwlinved to bn the lie ran in the opening and Bay Area Laboratory Co­prohibited substance, was not proceedings and do not believ<~ rirst sprintnr to lost positivn for semif'inal rounds of the 2000 Opnrative. · covered by the appeal. that the decision announced EI'O, whieh is popular with Games, but not in the 1.600-The llarrison cases and the "As a matter of course, we today will have any (waring on nnduranen runnnrs and meter final anchored by latest involving Young all came don't comment on specific indi­that proceeding." cyclists. Michaol .lohnsori. after the Sydney game·s. But vidual drug cases," said .Jill The CAS has not set a date 
Tnsts for 1·:1'0 were int.ro-All six members of the rolay track's world govnrning body, Genr, s_pokeswoman for USA for a hearing. he said. 
MLB 
Stottlemyre set to return for 2005, then retire 
Associated Press bnneh coaeh. "I was a little upset about that have a new look, too. first round of the playoffs. Last 
"''ve been talking about retire­for a while," Stottlemyre said "I really want to go out on year, he didn't agree to return 
NEW YOHK -Orw morn ymtr, ment for about three· years," during a conference call. top," he said. for 2004 until owner George Mnl Stottlemyn~ says. Aller that, Stottlnmyre said. "Eaeh year I've "Maybe someonn within the Stottlemyre was diagnosed St<~inbrnnrwr gave him a raise. he absolutely. positivnly will changed my mind at the end of YanKnns' organization would be with a form of bone marrow Girardi caught for the Yankees retire as pit<'hing coach of tho the season. I'll be 64 years old at happy if I did step down this cancer in April 2000 and under­from 1996-IJIJ and made the Nl. Nnw York Yankons. this time at the end of next year, year." went stem-cell transplant treat­All-Star team with the Chieago 
Stot.tlnmyn• agreed Wednesday and it's probably time." Following the departures of ment, but his health has benn ~ubs in 2000. llis 15-year-play­to roturn for his I Oth season Stottlemyre said he always Hoger-Clmnnns, Andy Pettitte fine in recent years. ing career ended when he was under nutnagl~r .Joe Torre, and intended to roturn for the 2005 and David Wells, New York's In January 2002, he said he cut by New York at the end of thn Yankees also announced for­season, even though some starters had a 4.82 ERA this sea­would retire after that season spring training, and he became rnnr catcher Joe Girardi will rnports had said he would leave son, sixth among the 14 AL but changed his mind after a br.oadcaster l'i1r the YES net­rnplaee Willie· Handolph as now. teams. Next season's staff will Anaheim bt~at the Yankees in the work. 
THIS week's SUB MOVIE
. , 
!JH4lfl MHHt 
WASHINGTON STAUP 


.. 
Thursday Nov. 11 
Friday Nov. 12 
Saturday Nov. 13 



DeBartolo 101 
$3 

brought to you by the student union board sub.nd.edu 

Thursday, November 11, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Artest wanted time off for rap album and rest 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana l'aci1rs forward Hon Artnst said Wndnesday that he asked coach Hick Carlisln for time off bneause of a busy schedule that inrludnd promoting a soon-to­be rPieased rap album; which led to his two-game benching. 
Artnst held a short nnws con­l'on11lC11 bnl'orn Wednesday night's ganH' against the Los Angeles Clippers, and in his usual ambiguous manner. tried to nxplain why hn was benched. 
Artest said that he asked Carlisle for as much as a month ofT to heal his aching body and recover from a particularly busy schedule. 
"My body has been aching, I was going to take some time off and I said it the wrong way," Artnst said. "Everything that happnned wasn't too negative. I kind of surprised the team by wanting to take some games off, just to get back together, maybe stay home for a little bii. rest a littl11 bit and come baek." 
lie certainly surprised Carlisle, who said Tuesday that the situation, "compromised the integrity of the team. It's a pri­vate team matter, and I'm going to leave it at that." 
·"I don't know what that means,'' Artest said. "They probably expected a little more; expected me to play every game. Everybody's different It's early in the season, so I feel like I eould take some time off early and be ready for the long strnteh." 
So Carlisle benched Artest for Tuesday night's win over Minnesota and Wednesday night's game against the Clippers. It is not a suspension, and Artest will not lose any salary. He will return Friday. 
The 24-year-old is scheduled to release his debut rap album later this month and has been spending a lot of time making promotional appearances. 
"I've been doing a little bit too much music, just needed the rest," Artest said. "I've still got my album eoming out Nov. 23. After the album comes out I'm going to make sure all of my time is focused on winning a championship." 
It's the latest in a long line of controvf)rsial situations for Artest, ranging from destroying television monitors at Madison Square Garden two years ago to missing the team flight to Game 6 of the Eastern Conference finals at Detroit last season. 

Carlisle tried to downplay the issue before the game Wednesday night. 
"This isn't the Cuban m tssile crisis. It's not life or death, it's not about national security," Carlisle said. "It's just simply about a group of guys n1wding to remind ourselves -all of us -about the sanctity of t•1am, and what it's about." 
The message appears to have landed with Artest. 
"It was a good decision," Artest said. "l need the r·est. There's a lot of things going on." 
When asked if he thought the punishment fit the crime, Artest said, "There was no crime done. I think it helped out. I ·was tired. 
"l was doing a lot. I was run­ning around a lot and doing a whole bunch of stuff and I've also been working out, so I think I wore myself down physi­cally, I wore myself down men­tally. I was ready to take some time off, at least like a month off, but two games is enough." 
With so many injuries, the last thing the Pacers needed was to lose another player. 
The Pacers played with just nine players against the Clippers: 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
Done vvith NFL, Spurrier looks for another college try 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. -Steve Spurrier wants to return to eo!­
CALL THEATRES FOR NO PASSES OR DISCOUNT TICKETS SHOW TIMES. ACCEPTED FOR THIS ENGAGEMENT. 

lege coaching. spent two losing seasons with Spurrier told several newspa­the Washington Redskins. 
pers he has no intentions Spurrier left Florida in 2002 
returning to the NFL, where he after 12 winning seasons, six Southeastern Conference cham­pionships and a national title. lie went 12-20 with the Redskins and resigned after last season. "I probably decided then that I was done with the NFL," he 
told The Gainesville Sun. "It wasn't the lifestyle best for me. You don't have scout teams in the NFL. When I was at Florida, I worked with the quarterback every snap for two hours. It wasn't that way in the NFL." 
Miami Dolphins coach Dave Wannstedt resigned Tuesday, pronipting spe.culation that Spurrier would bring his famed 

VETERAN'S DAY MEMORJAL SERVICE 
Thursday, November J 11h 
4:30 at Stonehenge 
who have sacrificed greatly for their 
CHUCKY TIFFANY 

country in timt~s of need. 
JENNIFER TILLY RED~ .. 
.... ( > 



visor and playbook to South Florida. But Spurrier told Florida Today that NFL teams shouldn't even bother pursuing him. 
''I've said recently to several peo­ple that if I get baek eoaehing, it will probably be a good college job somewhere," Spurrier said. "It seems like I'm better suited for that. I know I certainly had a lot more suc­cess in the college game than in the NFL. So if I return to coach­ing, I think that would probably be the best idea." 

Spurrier even took a shot at his NFL record. 
"Probably very few NFL teams would want me after the success I had," he said. "Some probably would say that in the right situation I eould be suc­cessful. But if I had a choice, I'd lean toward the college game. Everybody has their own little niche. The college game was certainly a lot better success­wise for me." 
Spurrier withdrew his name from consideration to return to Gainesville, where Hon Zook was fired last month after two­plus seasons. 
Spurrier refused to reveal whether he would have taken the job had it been offered, bu( school president Bernie Machen and athletic director Jeremy Foley weren't planning to extend any invitations with­out a full-blown search-and­interview process -something Spurrier may have felt was a slap in the· face considering his track record with the Gators. 
Now Spurrier could· land else­where, maybe even with anoth­er SEC team. 
Sp.urrier said he would prefer to eoach in a warm-weather climate. South Carolina? North Carolina? How about Texas? 
He declined to say whether he has spoken to any schools. 
"I can't answer all that. I can't answer all your questions. In the next two or three weeks, onee the season is over, we'll see what happens," he said. 
"I think I've made it dear now that if I go baek into c.oaehing, it'll be at a good state university, a college job." 


OUND THE NATION 
page 20 COMPILED FROM THE Ol)SERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Thursday, November 11, 2004 
Associated Press Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  usc (52)  9-0  1,611"  
2  Oklahoma (10)  9-0  1,555  
3  Auburn (3)  9-0  1,512  
4  Wisconsin  9-0  1,384  
5  California  7-1  1,341  
6  Texas  8-1  1,259  
7  utah  9-0  1,245  
8  Georgia  8-1  1.210  
9  Michigan  8·1  1,133  
10  Virginia  7-1  971  
11  Florida State  7-2  ~87  
12  Louisville  6-1  866  
13  West Virginia  8-1  862  
14  Boise State  8-0  788  
15  Tennessee  7-2  654  
16  Virginia Tech  7-2  631  
17  LSU  6-2  628  
18  Miami  6-2  593  
19  Iowa  7-2  522  
20  Arizona State  1·2  345  
21  Boston College  6·2  254  
22  Texas A&M  6·3  160  
23  UTEP  6·2  148  
24  NOTRE DAME  6·3  143  
25  Oklahoma State  6-3  131  

ESPN/USA Today poll 
{('(lff/ record points 
1 usc (50) 9·0 1,514 2 Oklahoma (10) 9·0 1,452 3 Auburn (1) 9·0 1,416 4 Wisconsin 9·0 . 1,289 5 Georgia 8·1 1,233 6 California 7·1 1,203 7 Texas 8·1 1,169 8 Utah 9·0 1,124 9 Michigan 8·1 1,060 10 West Virginia 8·1 886 11 Virginia 7·1 877 12 Florida State 7·2 868 13 Boise State 8·0 782 13 -louisville 6·1 727 15 LSU 6-2 649 16 Virginia Tech 1·2 582 17 Miami 6·2 568 18 Tennessee 7·2 466 19 . Iowa 7-2 450 20 Arizona State 1·2 331 21 Boston College 6·2 244 22 Northern Illinois 7·2 205 23 TexasA&M 6·3 150 24 Oklahoma State 6·3 138 25 Texas Tech 6·3 112 
Men's Basketball Division I ESPN/USA Today Poll 
team points 
1 Kansas (8) 741 2 Wake Forest (12) 724 3 North Carolina (6) 697 4 Georgia Tech (1) 604 5 Illinois (1) 598 6 Syracuse 557 7 Connecticut 541 8 Oklahoma State (1) 511 9 Kentucky 480 10 Michigan Slate 476 11 Arizona (1) . 475 12 Duke 403 13 Louisville (1) 374 14 Mississippi St. 365 15 Texas 334 16 Maryland 316 17 Pittsburgh 247 18 Alabama 224 19 N.C.State 218 20 Wisconsin 216 21 NOTRE DAME 214 22 Florida 160 23 Memphis 131 24 Washington 108 25 Stanford 64 
around the dial 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Florida State at North Carolina State 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 2 
MLB 


AP 
Texas Rangers Buck Showalter, right, speaks during a news conference in Key Biscayne, Fla. Showalter was voted the AL Manager of the Year award and Bobby Cox of the Atlanta Braves won the honor In the NL. 
Cox, Showalter voted managers of the year 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK--Bobby Cox and Buck Showalter were givnn little chance or suc­cess after payroll purges pushed out key players. Proving th0 predictions wrong, their teams won, anyway, and so did the managers. 
Cox was voted Nl. Manag0r of the Year on Wednesday l'or leading the Atlanta Braves to an unex­pnctnd 13th straight divi­sion title, and Showalt0r won tho AL honor for turn­ing thn last-place Hangers into a contendf~r aftnr Texas tradod MVP Alex Hodriguez to llw N0w York Yankees. 
"Some of th0 fans proba­bly thought we weren't going to make it this year, but we did," Cox said l'ol­lowing his third manager of' the ynar award. "I think I'm as thrilled this year as I ever have been with one singltl'tC1am." 
Coming off l'our straight last-place finishes in the AL West, Texas cut its pay­roll in hall' and wasn't pre­dieted to do well. But the Hangers rebounded and remained in contention until the linal week or the season. 
"I would havn picked us the same place 0vcrybody did, too," said Showalter, 
IN BRIEF 

McGrady likely to miss game with hip, groin injury 
IIOUSTON --Tracy McGrady missed most of the Ilouston Hockets' practiee Wednesday bncause of nag­ging hip and groin injuries, though the two·timn NBA scoring champ could still. play Thursday against Minnesota. 
McGrady lnft midway through the third quarter of Tuesday's game against Memphis with strains in his right hip and groin and didn't return. 
lie limped through some shooting drills during practice and said the pain had gott0n worse. 
"It's a sharp pain with every move­ment," McGrady said. "It's really lim­iting me. If I feel I can go, I'll be ready to play. I'm not counting tomorrow out just yet." 
McGrady said his hip and groin started bothering him during Friday's game at Memphis. 
Hockets coach Jell' Van Gundy did­n't seem too concerned about the 
who won for tho second time. 
Cox received 22 first­piacC1 votes and 10 seconds for 140 points in balloting. by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. Tony La Hussa of St. Louis, who has won four manager of the year awards, was second with 62 points after leading the Cardinals to a major leagu0-bnst 105-57 record. Jim Tracy of Los i\ngnles was third with 52. 
"I thought Tony des0rved it, to be honest," Cox said. "I would be more than happy to split that trophy and have both our nanws on it." 
Atlanta. struck by 
injuries to koy players, was 33-39 after a loss at Baltimore on June 25, thon went 63-27. 
"We were treading water for a good part of the sea­son until we got everybody back and finally took ofT," Cox said. 
Cox won the AL award with Toronto in 11JH5 and the Nl. award with the Braves in 1991. the first' ynar of Atlanta's rncord run. 
Atlanta lost :~-2 to llouston in thn first round of tlw playoffs. Despite all the division titles, thP Braves' only World S0ries championship under Cox was 1995. 
pos-sibility of playing without McGrady for a game or two. Two Michi~an State receivers arresled 
EAST LANSING, Mich. --Two Michigan State football players were arrested and charged with possess­ing a dangerous chemical compound after they allegedly planted home­made bombs that blew up outside campus apartments. 
Terry Lovn and Irving Campbell, both 19-year-old redshirt freshmen receivers, were arrested Tuesday morning as they left the scene of the first explosion, campus police said. A second bomb exploded shortly after­ward, and a third was detonated by the campus pelice bomb squad. 
The men said they planted the bombs in Spartan Village as a prank, campus police Sgt. Florene McGlothian-Taylor said. 
No one was hurt and there was no propPrty damage, McGlothian-Taylor said. The players released on $500 bond after b0ing arraigned Tuesday .. Chiefs p'ut Barber on injured reserve 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -The Kansas City Chief's placed lineback0r Shawn Barber on injured roserve Wednesday and prcparnd l'or Sunday's must-win game at New Orleans without All-Pro running back Priest llolmns. 
Coach Dick V0rrneil stopped just short of saying Holmes would defi­nitely be out, but the league's l0ading rusher and scorer was on crutches after straining a medieal collat0ral ligament in his right knee. None of' his teammates expected him to play. 
Dnrrick Blaylock, out last w0nk with a dc0p thigh bruise, practie0d full speed for the first time Wednesday and would start for the Chiefs (3-5) in Holmes' absence. 
Blaylock, a fifth-round draft choice out of Stephen F. Austin in 2001, has carried 32 times for 150 yards, a 4. 7 average. 

Thursday, November 11, 2004 The Observer + SPORllS page 21 
Quincy 
continued from page 24 
said. "We've just got to make sure we know what our shot is. I think we are still learning that, but that's a fine line. I love when guys are confident and aggressive. 
"We got to 80 pretty easy tonight, and 80 in a college bas­ketball game is a lot of points. We are shooting it well and making the extra pass out there." 
Playing against a more con­ventional opponent in Quincy, the Irish were able to turn up their deftmsive effort and not just try to keep up with the quick up-and-down pace of St. Joseph's. 
After a slow start. the Irish picked up their energy level and started getting in the face of their opponents and jumping the passing lanes. 
They outrebounded the Hawks 37-33 -including 17 offensive rebounds -and forced 22 turnovers while get­ting 15 steals. 
"I thought we were a lot bet­ter on defense challenging shots, getting hands on balls," Irish guard Chris Thomas said. "We had a lot of guys going after the hall on rebounds. We tried to make a conscious effort of doing it on the defensive end in the backcourt." 
The Irish will practice today and take Friday ofT as they get ready for the regular season opener against I Iarvard Nov. 19 at the Joyce Center. 
Unlike in years past. Brey feels his team has something tangible to gauge itself on and doesn't have to wait for the reg­ular season to start to get an accurate assessment of his group. 
"We got a lot out of both exhi­bition games. We got to prepare for a system," Brey said. "You have a group that isn't going to let up and keep coming after you. Having to prepare is really helpful so I love the rule and I thought I would. 
"This is the first time we can ever say in my memory as a head coach that we got a lot out of both exhibition games." · 
Note: 
+ Irish forward Rick Cornett dressed for the game but did not play. Brey said he fully expeets Cornett to play in the Harvard game. 
NOTRE DAME 80, QUINCY 61 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME Cornette 0-h 0-0 0, Francis 4-9 0-2 8, Latimore 6-9 0-0 12, Thomas 6-16 0-0 16, Quinn 8-11 4-4 25, Isreal 2-5 0-1 4, Falls 
I<{ 3-3 5. Kurz 2-5 0-0 4. Carter 2-3 0-0 6 
QUINCY Cummens 1-4 0-0 3 Medskflr 5-12 0-0 10. GettingHr 3-11 5-8 11. Roth 5-8 0-0 11, I'Pldncr 1-2 0-0 2, MUSil 1-2 0-0 3. Anderson 2-2 0-0 6, Sutera 2-4 0-0 4. 
Walker 1-4 2-2 5  
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  49  :n  so  
Quincy  30  31  61  

:~-point goals: Notre name 11-22 !Quinn 5-8. Thomas 4-7, Carter 2-2. CornettP 0-3, Falls 0-21. Quincy 8-20 (Anderson 2-2, Hoth 1-1. Cummens 1-4, Muse 1-2, Walker 1-4, Niemczyk 1-1. Murkoy 1-1, Medsker 0-3, Gettingnr 0-1. FPldner 0-1 ). Fouh•d out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 37 ( Cornette 6, Francis 6, Thomas 6), Quincy 33 (Cumrncns 81. Assists: Notre Dame 19 (Cornette 5. Quinn .5). Quim:y 16 (Feldner 5). Total fouls: Notre Dame 14. (luincy 11. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


says the team can always Henican demonstrated this count on her to jumpstart a go-getter attitude in Notre 
rally or extend  Dame's  Oct.  
a run.  31  match  
"When we're going through a hard time,  "She's a: really tenacious player. If she sees an  against Villanova. In one of  
she makes those big plays that put  opportunity to help the team, she'll go for it."  her more solid defensive per­formances of  
us  back  on  the  season,  
track," Tarutis  Ashley Tarutis  Henican  
said. "She's a really tena­ lriish freshman  totaled 26 digs, account­ 
cious player. If  ing  for  45  

she sees an opportunity to percent of Notre Dame's digs help the team, she'll go for it." against Villanova. In addition, 
Saint Mary':; College Theatre presents THORNTON WILDER'S Pulitzer Prize Winning Classic 
OurTown 
Thursday Nov. 11 at 7:30pm Friday Nov. 12 at 7:30pm 

she helped limit the Wildcats' offense to .007 on hitting. 
Coach Debbie Brown says that Henican's most significant contributions cannot be inferred from statistics, how­ever. 
"She takes a really large area of the court as her responsibility," Brown said. "She can really frustrate hit­ters because she's consistent and keeps getting digs. 
"That's something that will never show up in the box scores, but it's a huge part of our success." 
Last year, Henican played a prominent role on the defense as well, becoming the third player in Irish history to record 400 digs in a season. In addition, Henican's efforts were part of the reason Notre Dame limited Big East oppo­nents to a .134 hitting per­centage and set a school record for fewest service aces allowed per game with 0.94. 
"She's always been a fighter and a competitor," Brown said. "We cannot afford to not have her on the court. When we're not doing well, she helps to refocus the group." 
Although the Irish are still focusing on one match at a time, a Big East championship and a long run in the NCAA tournament are still in the back of their minds. 
1-Ienican said she believes the team is capable of fulfill­ing this season-long wish list, as long as they remain focused and play consistently. 
"We're extremely talented," I-len1can said. "We can accom­plish great things. We just have to trust that we can and will win." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 

Henican 
continued from page 24 
key dig or a big play. She always comes up with these spectacular digs that just amaze everyone." 
But her teammates aren't the only ones she has impressed. 
More recently, the libero Henican was recognized as 
the Big East Conference Player of the Week -just the second libero ever to earn the honor. Tarutis said llenican's award was more than merit­ed. 
"I think it shows that all of her hard work has paid off," Tarutis said. "She finally got recognized for what she's really good at." 
The junior libero has proven she is deserving of the honor throughout the season. Tarutis 

NEVER STOP EXPLORINGTh1 
A thick ~eece coat is perfect 
for winter. Ask any yak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
~ 
CUTPCST Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am-9:oopm
s ors 
Sat: 1o:oo am -B:oo pm Cold Weather Experts Sun.: 12:00 pm -6:oopm . 



page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 11, 2004 


spread the ball around the ie, he makes things happen, field pretty well." Irish defen­he's a tough guy." 
Pittsburgh 
sive backs coach Steven Wilks For the Irish, this will b~~ a 
continued from page 24 said. "One of the things that different look than at 
we've talked about all week is Tennessee where Erik Ainge 
Syracuse, he recorded 188 not giving the big play. was more of a drop-back. pro­yards receiving in the They're going to try play­totype passHr. Panthers' 38-31 double-over­action and go deep, and we've This was after the Irish time Joss. Lee also has had got to be smart and patient learned Brent Sehacl'f"er four 100-yard receiving games and play the pass Jirst." wouldn't play, a guy who is this season, first in the Big Palko has gotten the ball to more like Palko, in that h(r East. Willingham knows the his receivers consistently this w i II r u n tlw ba I I o u t of t he Panthers have season. lie quarterback position. great receivers, has thrown "!Palko! is not afraid to tuck
''I've seen them on film.
especially Lee. for over it and run. go for the first "WPII. as you and I know that they're 300 yards down instead of slide," Wilks know, I think three times said. "lin's going to make
capable ofmaking the big 
Coach !Walt! this season some things happnn. That in
play. They spread the 
Harris and the in eight itsdf makns things a littln dif­Pittsburgh starr ball around the field games. The ferent from last week, wlwn have done a pretty well." last two SchaPffer was out, and we great job with games, were pretty sure that Ainge all of their wide Palko has wasn't going to run. This guy
Steven Wilks 
receivers," been espe­is a scrambler so wn'vn got to Willingham Irish defensive backs coach cially dan-make sure Wf\'re smart and said. "It seems gerous, not give up the big play." each year they completing But another thing the Irish have one of the premiere guys 67 percent of his passes, 55-must worry about is PanthBrs if not in the Big East. in the for-85, and throwing for six head coach Walt Harris, who whole country. Any time you touchdowns. During these two said he's been talking to have a guy [Lee] that is that games against Syracuse and Boston Co II ege head eoaeh skilled, he poses a great deal the win over Rutgers, Palko Tom O'Brien for advice on of problems." has thrown for 660 yards and how to bHat Notre Dame, as 
Lee is one player the Irish just one interception. the Eagles knocked ofT the must prevent from making big Wilks knows Palko can hurt Irish 24-23 earlier this season plays. the Irish Saturday. 
''I've seen them on film. and "[Their strength] is definite­I know that they're capable of ly in the quarterback," Wilks Contact Heather Van Hoegarden making the big play. They said. "I think he's very athlet-at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Recruits 
continued from page 24 
looking at. we needed to get at least four of tlwm. But there wasn't pressure to sign seven 
guys and do "The thing about all the school single­
total rebuilding. players is they all have season scor­You could coach ing record. 
high basketball IQ. It's 
the guys that McAlarney
really easy to go come in
wnn1 here and scored a 
just methodical­Jy work on the 
next group." 
Notro Damn settled on four quality players that can improve tlw team at most 
any position on tlw court. 
Tho 6-foot-7, 200-pound Ayors avnragnd I(~.4 points. S.O rebounds and 4.0 assists as a junior. shooting 41\ pnrcnnt from three-point rangP. lie earned all-lntPr AC honors for his sec­ond straight season and impressnd Irish rnrruiters with his touch from the outside. 
"Hyan Aynrs has a great fnel for tlw game already and is vnry skilled," Brey said. 
llillesla.nd, a 6-foot-S, 220­pound power forward, brings a dnf'Pnsivn prPSOIWP and a win­ning aU.itudP. 
The St.. John's Jesuit star averaged I:Ul points and 9.0 rebounds per ganw in his junior season. finishing third on tlw team in assists despito missing I 0 ganws dun to knee surgnry. llillnsland's tnam went 2:1-5': going h-4 when .he was out of the li!wup and losing its only other ganw in the statP linals. 
"lle alroady digs in defensive­ly," B roy said. "And hn's real 

and have a pick-up career-high 59 points
game with them and 
against
play good basketball." 
McClancy for· M o o r e Zach Hillesland Catholic high .school, and
Irish recruit 
good with the ball." 
McAlarney, a 6-foot-1, 170­pound guard who new under the recruiting radar of most top Division-I programs, averaged 
35.6 points per game last sea­
son and scored 907 points to set the Staten Island high 
he set anoth­
er Staten Island rncord with seven games of 30-plus points in a season. 
"I called !Kyle! last night," Brny said. "lllis team! had two practices and he was coming baek from the Y[MCA] to g.et some extra shooting in. lle's 

LUNKER'S 
HOME OF THE 6000 GALLON LUNKQUARIUM AND ANGLER's INN RESTAURANT. HUGE SELECTION OF 
NORTH FACE 
JACKETS, COATS, HATS, CLOTHING BRING THIS AD INTO LUNKER's AND RECEIVE 10i'o OFF NoRTH FACE ITEMS. LUNKER's APPROX. 15 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS. TAKE ST. RD. 23 N TO EDWARDSBURG, MICHIGAN 
269-663-3745 
WWW.LUNKERS.COM 
honors from Street and Smith's maga­zine. In his junior "Ryan Ayers has a season, Zeller aver­grr:at fee/for the aged 19.8 points 
game already and
and 9.4 rebounds. 

1-lillesland verbal­is very skilled. " ly committed to Notre Dame first, 
Mike Brey
but Zeller's 

Irish coach 
announcement in late April arguably spurred the ensuing commit­ments that· rounded out a top national recruiting class. 
"We were. very excited last spring·, and three Wednesdays in a row we were able to hit on those last three guys. Luke, Kyle and then Ryan lc.ommit­ted], in that order I believe," Brey said. "Just like in a game, you can get momentum in great class with a great bunch of guys with, as coach Brey said before, four-year guys." 
The team welcomed its recruits (three unofficial, one official) on visits during the weekend of Sept. 11. The recruits scrimmaged with the existing team to get a feel for how the Irish system fit their style, and vice versa. 
And they came away con­vinced Notre Dame was the place for them. 
"The thing about all the play­ers is they all have high basket­ball IQ," Hillesland said. "It's really easy to go come in and have a piek-up game with them and play good basketball. A lot of times at open gyms the ball fumbles around it's really ugly, but with them everybody knows hovy to play the game." 
Now, each player has an entire year to improve. But all four are eager to succeed under Brey. 
"[ loved Kyle's quote," Brey said. "lie said, 'Yeah. that's great. I've got no problem play­ing against and learning from Chris Quinn lin practice[, but when I'm a sophomore I want the ball." 
If the class lives up to its hype, McAiarney and his three elassmatcs will have it. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
just a throwback." 

The 6-foot-11,. 240-pound Zeller is the most nationally recognized Irish recruit. He was voted a preseason candidate for the 2005 Mr. Indiana Basketball honor after earning All-America recruiting. You hit a couple 3's, you get some stops and you have a run in a game. You can have a run in recruiting." 
Zeller said all four players' signings was a huge advantage for Notre Dame. 
"I don't know how huge [my signing wasl," he said. "But I know all four of us committing is a huge thing for Notre Dame as an institution. Our class gets me real excited because it's a 

Thursday, November 11, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
SCOTT .ADAMS
DILBERT 
140USE. AND WE QUAFF AFEW ROOT BEERS ... 


CHARLES SCHULZ 
EXCEPT ~E NEVER 
TAKES AN'1' OF M'1' 
CARTOON IDEAS.. 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

~®11J! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
VOBEA 

I I I t]
lt:2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
All Rights Reserved. 
tMYSA\0 


J rJ I ~To~~SE: 
,_,www::~:~m:~le:~:oi~::L:EI::::t~:I:::) No~:::~:::to 
· form the surprise answer, as ~ suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print~here: rI I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow} 

Jumbles: ABYSS THYME TRUSTY ROTATEYesterday's I 
Answer: When the yacht ran out of fuel, everybody ended up in-THE SAME BOAT 




67 Induction motor inventor 68 Mediocre marks 69 European capital 70 Sought answers 71 Brazil, for one 72 Loads 
DOWN 1 "My dear man" 2 Driller's org. 3 Make it big 4 "What ?" 5 Small piano 6 Oklahoma 
Indian 7 Charge aFormer CBS 
chairman Laurence 9 Easy toss 10 S<:!nta 11 Was almost out 12 Some tapes 13 Fiaming felony 18 Field calls 22 Actress Anne 24 Decked out 25 "Very funny ... not!" 27 Sleep problem 28 Perlman of "Cheers" 29 Madams 34 Jazz singer Carmen 36 West ender? 37 Fallback option 39 Phone, slangily 

WILLSHORTZ 

40 Lets out 50 Summers on 61 Pub suds the Riviera
41 Homer, for one 

62 Flit 52 Laos who wrote
42 Spot for slots 
"Gentlemen 

64 General played 43 team Prefer Blondes" by Duvall 
46 Stands. 53 Pass 
65 "No seats available"47 "Aren't you 54 "Oklahoma!" ashamed?!" aunt 

66 Country cable 49 Not at all 59 Noted exile isle letters, once 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; m, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than ~!,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.corn/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Chris Joannou, Mackenzie Phillips, Sinbad, Donna Fargo 
Happy Birthday: Use your creative talent to come up with new and prosperous ideas. Money can be made this year. An unusual turn of events will lead you into something you may not have considered in the past Be open and receptive to suggestions. Your numbers are 18, 23, 26, 33, 41, 46 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You can't win when it comes to partnerships, so prepare to compromise. Do something to help others and you will be offered a proposition.*** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Settle any work-related issues. You can find a solution to a problem that has been bothering you about your health or appearance. Minor mishaps will occur if you aren't cautious.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Consider all the things you can do to update your look and go for it. Taking a different approach to life will inspire you. Romance should be high on your list***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Focus on getting your place as well as your finances in order. Your horne is likely to be disrupted by someone who doesn't 
think the same way you do. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Nothing will be too much trouble for you today. Your 
generosity will lead to greater friendships, love and romance. Travel should lead to a chance meeting. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Make some career changes or consider what you always wanted to do and find out how you can accommodate your dreams. A hobby may give you satisfaction. *** LffiRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Get involved in something that will inspire you to be more creative. You are in a high cycle regarding social and romantic encounters. Children may need your help. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't neglect your finances. If you are creative in your approach to budgeting, you will discover you can make your money work for you. *** · SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Focus on your business and personal 
connections today. You can make a lasting impression. Be colorful about your ideas, intentions and plans. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): One slip on your part or someone else's 
• could cost you both emotionally and financially. Stay out of the limelight if possible.** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): This is the perfect time to talk about love, romance and following through with your personal plans. Single or not, you can find love or improve relationship you are in. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Go over your own personal papers. You should 
probably update your wil.J or your insurance policy. If someone owes you money, this would be a good day to collect *** 
Birthday Baby: You are creative, outspoken and very intelligent You have a worldly outlook and can see the possibilities that are available to you. You are an explorer who is always in pursuit of knowledge. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ _ Address 
City __________ State ____ Zip______ 
r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, November 11, 2004 
page 24 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Present and future 
~Q_,} ', 
Irish knock offQ'unicy @cfjinish up preseason, ink four recruits 
By MATT LOZAR Spons Writer 
The other "Chris" in the Notre Dame back­court slwwnd he's got some game Wndnesday night. 
Chris Quinn's game-high 25 points paced the Irish as thny cruised to an 80-61 vie tory over Division II Quincy at the Joyce Centnr. 
"He's really a heck of a guard and one of the most underrated guards in the l Big East) and nationally," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "It probably won't be as much of a secret in December. [He's] so solid, )the) game comes easy to him, doesn't really force a thing. It's fun to watch his maturity and confidence level growing." 
In his second game in an Irish uniform, sen­ior Dennis Latimore looked more comfortable than he did in the exhibition opener against St. .Joseph's. That game was his first since february 2003. 
Latimore came out more aggressive and with more nnergy on both ends of the floor against the llawks. 
lie hit a eouple of fadeaway jump shots along with getting a breakaway steal leading to an uncontested dunk on the other end. 
"I tried to work on that," Latimore said. "It's a big difl'erenee coming from a practice situa­tion to a game situation. <iame speed is so much quicker. and it took me the whole first game to adjust. I think I'm adjusted to that now." ~ 
That spurt from Latimorn came during a 23­8 run in the first half that saw the Irish turn an 8-5 deficit into a 36-1 (J lead. 
"We're going to bo good ofTensively," Brey 
see QUINCY/page 21 
fOOTBALL 
Irish prepare for 
talented receive-rs 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Ediwr 
Last year, when people thought of Pittsburgh. thny thought of Larry Fitzgerald. This year, however. is difTM­ent. 
T h n I' an the r s o ITn n s e is diverse and still dangerous under t.hn arm of first-ynar starter Tyler Palko. 
Palko has beconw famous for his ambidl'xtrous tosses whiiP !wing prt>ssuwd. 
"lin's versa.tile," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "lie's. doing a great job of protecting tlw football. for tlw most part. 
lie moves around in a timely basis to make it very difficult. And he's putting the ball in the right plaees with his receivers." 
One threat eatching the ball is 5-foot-8 Joe DelSardo. The former wa.Ik-on burned Hutgers Oct. 23 for 105 yards on night catches. DelSardo is orw of live Panthnrs who has rocordod 100-yard receiving gamns this season. Greg Lee is also one of those. In his first full season as a starter, hi' is atop the Big East in receiving yards and eighth in tlw coun­try, averaging 104 yards per game. Last week against 
see PITTSBURGH/page 22 


By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
Sealing a promising futurn for a program on the rise, Irish coach Mike Brey announced the commitment of Byan Ayers (Blue Bell, Penn.), Zach llillesland (Toledo, Ohio). Kyle McAlarney (Staten Island, N.Y.) and Luke Zeller (Washington, Ind.) to the Notre Dame basket­ball reeruiting class of 2009 Wednesday morn­ing. 
All four players signed national letters of intent by 9:30 a.m. Wednesday. Brey said the players' commitments add future security and potential to a program already poised for a strong showing in the upcoming season. 
"People wanted to put the moniker 'Fab Four' on them," Brey said from the football conference room in the Joyce Center. "I said, 'Yeah, that's great, with the emphasis on [the word) four' ... beeause they're going to grow up and grow old together in a college basket­ball program." 
Notre Dame assistant coaches pushed recruitment last winter and spring because the team had roster spots to fill. 
"I want to emphasize my assistant eoaches do a great job with that, and every day they're doing something with reeruiting," Brey said. "I think they heard that a lot this summer from their competitors and I'm glad they heard that." 
Hob Kurz, a graduate of Penn Charter high school in Philadelphia, was the lone signer for the dass of 2008, opening the door for sweep­ing recruiting efl"orts. 
"This class needed to be a really talented dass," Brey said. "With the players we were 
see RECRUITS/page 22 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Henican emerges as the go~to girl 
Only second libero to win Big East Player of the Week 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Wri rer 

Calling Meg lloniean eap­tain is insufficient. 
In addition to the leader­ship role she has assumed, Heniean has become a go­to girl for the defense and an inspirational player who keeps the tnam 's spirits high. 
"lllenicanl adds a lot of confidence to tho tPam," freshman Ashley Tarutis said. "We know we can always count on Mog for a 
see HENICAN/page 21 


MLB COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
OlYMPICS 
NFL 

MLB 
NFL 
Atlanta manager Former professional Titans quarterback Baseball's generalJerome Young is 

Miami interim coach Bobby Cox and Texas 
and college football 

banned by the USASA Steve McNair is still list­
managers to discuss 
Jim Bates tries to turn skipper Buck Showalter 
coach Steve Spurrier 

for life after testing pos­
ed as questionable 
instant replay at annual 
around the lowly 1-8 each win Manager of 
hopes to return to the 

itive for an illegal drug despite more than two meetings in Florida. 
Dolphins. the Year awards. 
college ranks_. 

for a second time. 
weeks of rest for his bruised sternum. 
page 20 page 18page 19 page 17 page 14 page 14 










