
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


UCC meets challenges of students 
Counseling center keeps 97 percent of student cases 
By JANICE FLYNN News Writer 
Across the countr-y, college students are reporting ­with greater frequency ­more serious mental health concerns, creating a critical challenge for college coun­seling centers. At Notre Dame, students and faculty say these challenges have been met by the University Counseling Center over this past year. 
Last year, the center saw 815 students, roughly 8 per­cent of the student body. Ov11r 90 percent received individual counseling, while the remainder participated in group counseling. 
In addition, about 97 per­cent of cases are kept within the the UCC for treatment, which is directed by Susan Steibe-Pasalich. 
Such a high retention rate contradicts the common stereotype that college coun­seling centers are not equipped to handle serious cases. 

"Counseling centers at col­leges have never been con­ceived as centers like private practices," said Ava Preacher, the victim's resource person for sexual assault and assistant dean in the· College of Arts and Letters. "[They] traditionally have been where students deal with smaller, adjust­ment problems. In the last few years as diagnoses have gotten more sophisticated, the UCC has really been called on to do a different kind of work than they had been conceived to do." 
Heather Rakoczy, rector of Pangborn Hall, said this impression does exist among students that she has dealt with. 
"What I typically hear is 
one of two things," Rakoczy said. "One, 'My problem is so serious that a University Center would not be as qual­ified to help me as a private practice would,' or two, 'My 
problem  is  not  serious  
enough."'  
Preacher  and  Rakoczy  

belong to a group of people 
see CENTER/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Jo1u.rnalists to speak on etlUcsatND 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame welcomes a panel of prominent American journalists to campus today to speak about media bias in the context of the 2004 pres­idential campaign. 
The panel is comprised of Notre Dame graduates who now serve as advisors for Notre Dame's Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. The group will address the topic "Media Trust and Bias in 50/50 America," in room 100 McKenna Hall at 3 p.m. 
Journalists serving on the panel include Don Wycliff, public editor of the Chicago Tribune, Anne Thompson, national correspondent for NBC News, Bill Dwyre, sports editor of the Los Angeles Times, Tom Bettag, senior executive pro­ducer of Nightline on ABC News, and Bill· Mitchell, online editor of the Poynter Institute for Media Studies. 
The Gallivan Program was creat­ed in 1997 and is supprted by John Gallivan and his family. The pro­gram includes a minor for Notre Dame undergraduates and spon­sors a number of lectures at Notre Dame throughout the academic year. 

Pep rally invigorates students 
By KEN WALSH News Writer 
After last year's disappointing football season, Notre Dame students and fans at Friday's pep rally said they are finding renewed enthusiasm in their team, partly 
due to 
motivating speeches from past football greats. 
Students and fans at Friday's pep 


rally listened Vitale to speeches from Notre Dame's 1964 Heisman Trophy winner John Huarte and sports analyst and broadcaster Dick Vitale. 
"Dick Vitale, I thought, was extremely motivating," said Notre Dame senior Kasey Rak. "You could tell he was very emotionally driven." 
Vitale's speech outlined the duties and responsibilities that 
see PEP RALLY/page 4 

University finalizes Juniper R<>ad plan 
County council approves changes to Juniper, Edison 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 
With its plans to close Juniper Road at Douglas and realign Edison Road approved June 8 by the St. Joseph County Council, Notre Dame is focusing on finalizing designs, dates and costs for the cam­pus roads project. _ 
Assuming design approval, phase one of the project is tentatively scheduled to begin in April 2005 and wrap up by the end of that calendar year, according to the most aggres­sive timetable designed, said vice president for business operations Jim Lyphout. This first section of construction involves demolishing a large portion of the existing Edison Road and realigning it to swing out farther south of campus as well as beginning work on a new north-south corridor where it meets Ivy Road. 
Phase two of the project calls for work to be completed on the portion of the new road that runs parallel to Ivy by August 2006 and the improve­ment to the section of Douglas from the new road to Old Juniper road by December of that year. 

According to plans detailed by University architect Douglas Marsh at an April 27 community meeting, the new road would begin off Edison west of Ivy Road and merge into Ivy between Vaness Street and Dunn Road. Moving west, it would intersect Bulla Road at a stoplight and run behind the Fischer Graduate Residences, meeting Douglas Road at a traffic roundabout. 
"This four-lane north-south corridor will be much faster than [the] current route through campus with stop­lights,'' Lyphout said. "It will be a better road and a faster road." 
Juniper will not close until all the alternative routes are in place -January 2007 at the earliest. The road will be completely razed and replaced with green space and new construction sites, possibly including two new residence halls, said Lyphout. 
Lyphout estimated costs between $22 and $23 million, but said numbers were not firm. He also confirmed the University has located a fund­ing source for the project. 
Though the current football season has just begun, there are concerns about how the new construction will affect parking and traffic situations for tailgaters over the next few years. 
Lyphout said that under cur­rent designs, the new north­south corridor will run through tailgating lots in the grassy area south of Edison Road and will make them unusable. 
"I don't think we've had any discussion yet if there are other spots we can use as sub­stitutes, but we know there is more than adequate parking north of Douglas in a huge lot that is never full,'' he said. "The more prime tailgating position will just be moved further from the stadium." 
The discussion process between the University and the affected community has been described as a "model situation," as both parties made adjustments to their positions in accordance with new concerns, said Lyphout. 
The campus road project grew mainly out of safety con-
see JUNIPER/page 9 

Monday, September 27, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Almost 22? 
A few weeks ago, I was perusing the various 21st birthday cards in the store and thinking about how incredibly depressing it is to turn 22 as compared to turning the mag­ical age of 21, when I noticed a 
Christie Boisen
sign informing 
shoppers that 
Sweetest Day is Assistant 
on Oct. 16 this Scene Editor 
year. 
Since this is my 
birthday, you can imagine how 
annoyed I was, assuming that 
Sweetest Day is a wannabe 
Valentine's Day and a Hallmark 
ploy to increase sluggish October 
greeting card sales. 
Now, however. the day took on special significance. I probably shouldn't admit this, but I went home and Googled Sweetest Day (there's a reason people call me Queen Nerd, and it's not just because I carry a travel-size stapler in my backpack for emergency in­class paper stapling). As it often happens, uneducated pre-judgment on my part of something I knew nothing about led me to misin­formed conclusions. 
First, I learned that Sweetest Day is not a recent greeting card com­pany fabrication; a Cleveland man thought of it over 60 years ago. The day is actually not like Valentine's Day at all. The original purpose was to spread cheer by giving small gifts to the underprivileged and forgot­ten, like orphans and shut-ins. 
The idea of remembering others with kind acts, a sort of national Random Acts of Kindness holiday, is not limited to honoring the sick or orphaned today. Now, it extends to friends, family and everybody else you appreciate having in your life. 
All of a sudden, turning 22 and one year closer to impending senior citizenship didn't seem so awful. A day dedicated to making other peo­ple happy seemed almost as fun as a day dedicated to using your real license for the first time to get into Boat Club. How many people in our lives are underappreciated and unrewarded 364 days of the year? 

A lot. The dining hall card swipers who smile at you and tell you to have a nice day, the house­keepers who clean up after the slovenly college kids in your dorm and even your best friend who lets you wear her new clothes before she gets a chance to wear them, and then doesn't get mad when you spill beer on yourself at the bar because you're a clumsy drunk. Did you remember to thank them all today? 
There I was. complaining about my birthday falling on the first Saturday of fall break and nobody being here to celebrate with me, when I should have been grateful that I have friends who like me in the first place (usually). I recom­mend celebrating Oct. 16 this year by sharing your gratitude with everyone you appreciate having in your life-knowing about rampant acts of kindness will make it an even better birthday for me than 21 was. Almost. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rho highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF SATURDAY'S GAME? 

Kyle Wilson  Joey LaMartina  Robert Knuesel  Lauren Berger  Aimee Sirois  John Tripp!  
Keough sophomore  Keough junior  offcampus senior  Pangborn senior  Pasquerilla West freshman  Zahm freshman  
"Matt Mitchell is my hero."  "Matt Mitchell deserves a hot  "The wave started in the  "Boring-I was gone the  "It seemed to last a lot longer  "Irish dominate. Got to love it. "  




oil massage. " second quarter entire third 

86-acre fungus found In Swiss Alps 
BIRMENSDORF, Switzerland -Swiss sci­entists have discovered what they believe is Europe's biggest fungus, stretching wide under an Alpine forest. 
The Honey Mushroom ­also known by its Latin species name Armillaria ostoyae -was found lurk­ing in the Engadine nation­al park in the eastern Swiss Alps, said the Federal Institute for Forest, Snow and Landscape Research. Spanning 35 hectares (86 
~ 
acres),  the  fungus  it  
a:: LLI ::J: ~ LLI  TODAY  

3: 
.....
cs: 
(.) 0 

-enough quarter and said." nothing happened." 

CLAIRE KELLEYfThe Observer 
Notre Dame students show their support Saturday of the Irish defense, which held Washington to just three points. 
OFFBEAT 

believed to be 1 ,000 years old, the institute added. 
The underground fungus is only visible in the fall, when its mushrooms break through the earth and grow around the roots of trees, the institute said. 
Although harmless to humans -its mushrooms are edible -the parasitic fungus can colonize trees, killing off swaths of pine forest. 
Real-Life 'Lassie' alerts humans to smoke 
CROWN POINT, Ind. -Foxie's cleverness is not doubted by local animal control officials after the collie warned them about smoke coming from an area that contained 10 dogs. 
April Godra, a Lake County Animal Control shelter official, said she knew something wasn't right when the normally quiet dog would not stop barking as Godra made her rounds through the north­western Indiana kennels a week ago. 
Then she noticed Foxie looking at the door leading to the garage where the dogs were. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 


than the Michigan game. " 
IN BRIEF 

Students can attend the panel discussion "Media Trust and Bias in 50/50 America," today from 3 to 4:30 p.m. in rooms 100-104 of McKenna Hall. Panelists are prominent American journalists and mem­bers of the Gallivan Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy advisory committee. 
Music scholar Quentin Faulkner will speak about "Singing by the Assembly: Is it Worth the Effort?" today from 7 to 8:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall room 116. 
Notre Dame alumna Diana Percival will speak today -about her experiences with Teach for America at 9 p.m. in the base­ment of the Lafortune Student Center. Pizza will be provided. 
Students can learn about international service opportu­nities in medicine from Notre Dame alumna Martha Sommers today from 7 to 8 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Jazz and piano music will be offered today from 8 to 9:30 
p.m. at Washington Hall. Performers will include Notre Dame alum Gene Bertoncini and pianist Tom Knific. Admission is free but tickets are required. 
Russian art specialist Karen Kettering will speak Tuesday from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m. in the Snite Museum's Annenberg Auditorium on "Darker Shades of Red:. The Official Art and Imagery of the Soviet Union, 1946-1990." 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detaile'd infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
HIGH 71 HIGH 68 LOW 51 LOW 40 

..J 
LOW 51 LOW 40 LOW 43 LOW 45 
Atlanta 77 I 67 Boston 75 I 61 Chicago 77 I 54 Denver 69 I 45 Houston 86 I 67 Los Angeles 84 I 61 Minneapolis 70 I 42 New York 74 I 64 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 78 I 66 Seattle 72 I 54 St. Louis 76 I 60 Tampa 84 I 76 Washington 76 I 65 


Monday, September 27, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 


Perth, Australia 
IFor students in the Colleges o[ Science and Engineering Onlgl Wednesday, September 29, 2004 Room 138 DeBartolo Hall 5:30-7:00pm 
.Saint Mary's kicks off Pride Week today 
By DANIELLE LERNER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's College kicks off its annual pride 
week today, offering fun and exciting events to stu­
dents. 
Lauren Fabina, Student Activities Board presi­dent, said she looks forward to this week's events. 
"Pride Week gets everyone excited about being a Belle," Fabina said. "It is about creating community and being proud of what your college is." 
The festivities begin tonight at 5 p.m. with a picnic and concert by Ari Hest and special guest Nini Camps, on the library green. Events also include a scavenger hunt on Tuesday and the Saint Mary's soccer game against Hope College Wednesday at 4 p.m. 
Always a favorite among students, ghost stories and ghost tours around campus begin Wednesday evening at 8 p.m. 
"It's fun to get to know the traditions behind our community," Fabina said. 
While Thursday offers a moonlit presentation of the summer hit, "13 Going on 30", events culminate Friday as Saint Mary's co-hosts the Purdue game pep rally at Notre Dame. 
Pride week centers around Saint Mary's College and its students. Student Activities Board member Kristen Vokaty, a junior at Saint Mary's, said this week is an important time for all students, regard­less of their year. 
"It gives us an opportunity to think about why we came to Saint Mary's," Vokaty said. "It reminds us of why we are proud to be Saint Mary's women." 
Pride week shirts will also be sold all week-for $6 in the Noble Family Dining Hall and outside of Haggar College Center. 
Contact Danielle Lerner at lem6311 @saintmarys.edu 
Cardinal -will speak on church, society 
Special to The Observer 
Cardinal Avery Dulles, a professor at Fordham University, will give the keynote address at a symposium celebrating the fifth anniversary of the establishment of Notre Dame's Center for Ethics and Culture at 4 
p.m. Tuesday in the auditorium of McKenna Hall. 
The symposium, "Looking Back, Looking Forward: Ethical Reflection in a Changing Cultural Landscape," will include a panel discussion at 8 
p.m. also in the McKenna Hall audi­torium. The panel will consist of Cardinal Dulles; Ralph Mcinerny, a Medieval Studies professor; and Dr. Edmund Pellegrino, professor emeritus of medicine and medical ethics at the Georgetown University Medical Center and 1998 recipient of Notre Dame's highest honor, the Laetare Medal. 

St. Helens could soo~ see explosion 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -A strengthening series of earthquakes at Mount St. Helens prompted seismologiSts Sunday to warn that the once-dev­
astating volcano may see  a  small  
explosion soon.  
The  U.S.  Geological  Survey  

issued a notice of volcanic unrest in response to the swarm of hun­dreds of earthquakes that began Thursday. 
"The key issue is a small explo­sion without warning. That would 
be the major event that we're wor­ried about right now," said Willie Scott, a geologist with the USGS office in Vancouver. 
The quakes were tiny at first, but on Saturday and Sunday there were more· than 10. temblors of magnitude 2.0 to 2.8, the most in a 24-hour period since the last dome-building eruption in October 1986, Scott said. 
In the event of an explosion, Scott said the concern would be focused on the area within the crater and the flanks of the vol­cano. It's possible that a five-mile 
Both events are free and open to the public. 
According to David Solomon, W.P. and H.B. White Director of the cen­ter, the symposium is intended not only to celebrate the anniversary but also "to help guide us as we. redouble our efforts to build what Pope John Paul II has called 'a Culture of Life.' Our whole mission has been inspired by the pope's cri­tique of ~ontemporary culture, especially as he expressed it in his three major encyclicals, Veritatis Splendor, Centesimus Annus, and Evangelium Vitae. These encycli­cals eloquently distill the truths at the core of the Catholic ethical tra­dition and make them speak to the most difficult ethical issues of our times." 
In addition to its sponsorship of ethical research, conferences and lecture series, the center coop­

erates with Notre Dame's Alumni Association in organizing the Clarke Family Medical Ethics Conference. annually bringing together Notre Dame alumni working in health care with distinguished theologians. philosophers and legal scholars to discuss ethical issues in medicine. 
This year the center is working with the University of Notre Dame Press to launch two publications projects: The monographs of the "Ethics and Culture Series" will be devoted to a broad range of ethical controversies from stem cell research to the death penalty, and the "Notre Dame Medical Ethics Series" will concern debates specif­ic to the practice of medicine. Plans are also being made to develop two summer institutes. one for universi­ty level and another for secondary schoolteachers of ethics and philos­ophy. 
area primarily north of the volcano could receive flows of mud and rock debris. 
That portion of the mountain blew out during the 1980 eruption that left 57 people dead, devastat­ing hundreds of square miles around the peak and spewing ash over much of the Northwest. 
The quakes have occurred at depths less than one mile below the lava dome within the moun­tain's crater. Some of the earth­quakes suggest the involvement of pressurized fluids, such as water or steam. and perhaps magma. 


Information Meeting 

Application deadline: November 15, 2004 for Fall 2005 only Apply on-line: www.nd.edu/·._,intlstud 
r-----------------------------­
page 4 Monday, September 27, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Center 
continued from page I 
who have developed relation­
ships with the UCC and have 
found a high level of profes­
sionalism and expertise there, 
particularly since Steibe­
Pasalich took over as the cen­
ter's director in July 2003. 
"!Students[ need to hear 
unequivocally that I think our 
counseling center is one of the 
best in the country," said 
Sister Mary Ann Mueninghoff, 
rector of Pasquerilla East 
Hall. "They're professional. ... 
[Steibe-Pasalich] is hands-on 
and will just do anything for 
the residential 
community." 
Erica Bove, 

student for the "[Students] need to group A Life hear unequivocally 
Uncommon, said 

that I think our
she was aware of 

poor advice that counseling center had been given is one ofthe best in 
to some mem­

the country." 
bers several years ago by interns at the Mary Ann Muenlnghoff UCC, but that rector of above all. the 
Pasquerllla East 
center has been 
a tremendous 
asset for stu­
dents struggling with a disor­
der, especially eating special­
ist Valerie Staples. 
"We highly recommend the 
Counseling Center, especially 
[Staples]." Bove said. 
"She's wonderful, she's just 
a professional. She just has a 
way to connect to each indi­
vidual." 
Many, particularly University 
staff. have noticed the UCC 
has improved in recent years. 
Several years ago, students 
encountered long waiting lines 
before being seen on a regular 
basis. exacerbating the diffi­
culty of trying to convince 
them to seek help at the UCC. 
"I would work with a stu­
dent for weeks, and finally get 
them to go to the Counseling 
Center,". Hakoczy said. "But in 
the past that lag time between 
the assessment interview and 
when they were matched up 
with a counselor sometimes 
was weeks, sometimes was 
months." 
To avoid that situation, the staff now meets twice weekly to discuss student intake. Students are paired with one of the center's 12 psycholo­gists. based on availability and specialization. Furthermore, an on-call crisis counselor is available every day for stu­dents who need immediate assistance, a policy that has been in place for many years. 
The UCC also has a 24-hour emergency service. At any time, an on-call therapist will return a message within 30 minutes, a service that rectors say is reassuring. 

"A number of years ago I had an attempted suicide," Hakoczy said. "[The counselor on-call] immediately called me back and talked me through what to do ... I was terrified. Afterwards I was just so grateful because I had never dealt with that kind of thing before." 
Outside referrals are a rari­ty, according to the UCC. However, if the staff deter­mines that a student needs more specialized services or more intense counseling than once a week sessions, the UCC will contact agencies in either local area or in the student's home community. 
The center. remains in con­tact with the outside treat­ment facility and often gives follow-up care upon comple­tion. After treatment is com­plete, they assist with read­mission by vouching to the Office of Student Affairs on the student's behalf. 
On the other end of the spectrum. the UCC is also equipped to address less seri­ous student difficulties, a detail that is often overshad­owed by the severe problems. 
"We do lots of counseling for students with just normal developmental problems," Steibe-Pasalich said. "But [these issues] do have real psychological components that can be addressed." 
Students and staff say the UCC has been very progressive 
and proactive. In 
recent years, it 
has implemented 


Pep rally 
continued from page I 
a student athlete, particular­ly a Notre Dame football player, has to his school. l-Ie said that players at the University must live up to a tradition of excellence estab­lished by past players. 
"I like how he talked about responsibility and what it means to be a football player at Notre Dame, and a stu­dent at Notre Dame," Rodriguez said. 
In his emotional speech, Huarte the pride and honor 
he has received from partici­pating in Notre Dame athlet­ics. 
Freshman Chad Houston said he was particularly moved by 1-Iuarte's speech. 
"When [Huarte] was moved to tears, I. was pretty close to tears myself," Houston said. 
A skit performed by resi­dents of Pasquerilla East, a new addition to this year's pep rallies, provided a change in format from last year's rallies which included speeches by students and other members of the Notre Dame community. This change has received support amongst students. 
"I think it provides a little variety as opposed to what it was last year with the stu­dent speakers," sophomore Rachel Rodriguez said. "The skits add a little bit more variety and are a little more fun." 
Hak said the skits give stu­dents more time to enter the Joyce Center before missing any of the more motivational aspects of the pep rally. including big name speakers. 
The next pep rally will be Oct. 1 at 6 p.m. in the JACC as the Irish prepare to take on Purdue. 
Contact Ken Walsh at kwalsh 7@nd.edu 

a system for han­dling sexual assault and a grief support group. The center has also support­ed the new Gender Relations Center. Long-term plans include hosting a national eating disorder conference next spring, and in May 2005 the UCC will tem­porarily move to the old post­office facility while their cur­rent building is renovated. Psychologists at the center are heartened by the increased openness to psycho­logical services, both across the country and among Notre Dame students. "Amazingly, [Notre Dame students] are almost always self-referred," Steibe-Pasalich said. "Most students come in on their own accord." Hita Donley, assistant direc­tor of the center, echoes this sentiment. "Unlike other offices on campus, you don't want to have to visit the [UCC]. and I get that," Donley said. "Where I feel most satisfied is in the number of self-referrals ... It also feels good to me that one Notre Dame student will say to  INFOR.MATtON M66TIN4S 5:00PM ~ ~Ayes-HeALY li1w.rstfa!1, septttM.btr:23  
another 'Look, I felt better after this ... and I think you would too."'  OY  
Contact Janice Flynn at  wed~dc.t !1, september ~  
jflynn 1 @nd.edu  
Protect yourself from the Meningitis Virus College Students, particularly college freshman living on campus, are at an increased risk for meningococcal disease. It Is a serious potentially fatal bacterial infection that is easily spread. The meningitis vaccine protects students from infection. Meningitis vaccinations will be available to students on Tuesday, September 28th at Stepan Center. Hepatitis B and Tetanus vaccinations will also be available. Take time to get vacccinated against meningitis. Student Immunization Clinic September 28th Stepan Center 11:00-6:00 Cost: Meningitis-$90.00 Hepatitis B-$75.00 Tetanus-$20.00 (Payable by cash or check only)  




ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 27, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TI-IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. strikes Zarqwi network 
BAGHDAD. Iraq-U.S. warplanes, tanks and artillery repeatedly hit at Abu Masab al­Zarqawi•s terror network in the insurgent stronghold of Fallujah on Saturday, while two British Muslim leaders came to Baghdad to try to convince his followers to release a British hostage. 
The strikes in Fallujah targeted two buildings where militants were allegedly meeting and a cluster of rebel-built fortifications used to mount attacks on nearby Marine positions, the U.S. military said. Doctors said 16 people were killed and 37 wounded. 
In other violence. an American soldier was reported killed by a bomb Saturday, and the 
U.S. military said four Marines died in separate incidents Friday. 
In Baghdad. gunmen fired on a vehicle carry­ing Iraqi National Guard applicants, killing six people, police said. The National Guard also clashed with unidentified gunmen in Haswa, south of the capital, injuring four people, hospi­tal officials said. 
Al-Qaida aims to disrupt elections 
KABUL. Afghanistan -U.S. led forces trying to protect landmark Afghan elections face a ris­ing wave of violence from about 2,000 insur­gents. including al-Qaida militants slipping in from Pakistan, an American general said Saturday. 
In the latest bloodshed, Afghan police said suspected Taliban gunmen killed nine militia soldiers in two attacks on checkpoints in a trou­bled southern province. 
Two weeks before the presidential ballot, Lt. Gen. David Barno said violence would "more than likely" increase, and urged NATO forces and the United Nations to steel themselves. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush and Kerry await debates 
CRAWFORD, Texas -Their first debate less than a week away, President Bush and Democrat John Kerry kept their public schedules clear on Saturday and began to focus on their prime-time showdown. 
At his Texas ranch, Bush and his political advisers went over plans and worked toward an evening practice session for the leadoff debate of the 2004 campaign. 
In Boston. Kerry caught up on work and met with campaign staff at his home ahead of the Thursday night debate at the University of Miami. On Sunday, the Massachusetts senator was shifting camp to a Wisconsin resort for his debate prepara­tions. 
Newspapers need to be in classes 
WASHINGTON -Young adults are much more likely to read the newspaper if they were exposed to it in school, but television remains their primary source of news, according to a study conducted for the Newspaper Association of America Foundation. 
More than six in 10 adults who had high exposure to newspapers in the classroom are regular newspaper readers, the report said. 
The study found that the presence of newspapers in the classroom affected young adult readership even when other factors during a child's upbringing are considered. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana schools must make changes 
BLOOMINGTON -Federal education offi­cials have told their counterparts irl Indiana to change the way the state is implementing the No Child Left Behind Act, particularly its meas­ure of schools' progress on test scores. 
Officials with the U.S. Department of Education want Indiana to interpret the school accountability law in the same way as the 49 other states. 
At least one-third of Indiana school districts would have been labeled as needing improve­ment-and faced consequences. 

Fourth hurricane strikes Florida 
Jeanne tears through Florida, killing at least 5 and leaving excessive damage 
Associated Press 
HUTCHINSON ISLAND, Fla. -Jeanne, Florida's fourth hurricane in six weeks, piled on destruc­tion in already ravaged areas Sunday, slicing across the state with howling wind that rocket­ed debris from earlier storms and torrents of rain that turned streets into rivers. 
At least five people died in the storm, which was a cruel rerun for many still trying to recover from earlier hurricanes. Jeanne came ashore in the same area hit three weeks ago by Hurricane Frances and was headed for the Panhandle, where 70,000 homes and _businesses remained without power because of Hurricane Ivan 10 days earlier. 
The storm peeled the roofs off buildings, top­pled light poles, destroyed a deserted community center in Jensen Beach and flooded some bridges from the mainland to the Atlantic coast's barrier islands. More than 1.5 million homes and busi­nesses were without power. 
"The last three weeks have been horrific," said Joe Stawara, owner of a Vero Beach mobile home park where about half the 232 trailers were dam­aged. "And just when we start to turn the corner, this happens." 
Until Sunday, no state had suffered a four-hurri­cane pounding in one sea­son since Texas in 1886. And the hurricane season still has two months to go. 
Rain blew sideways in wind that reached 120 mph when the hurricane's eye hit land shortly after midnight; by 5 p.m. EDT it had weakened to a strong tropical storm, with sus­tained wind near 65 mph. 
At least a foot of water rushed through some streets in Vero Beach, where a mattress floated 

through one neighbor­hood. 
The hurricanes have prompted the largest relief effort in the Federal Emergency Management Agency's history, eclipsing responses for the 1994 earthquake in Northridge, Calif., and the 2001 ter­rorist attacks, director Michael Brown said. 
"You're going to have some areas that have been hit once, twice and sometimes maybe three times," Brown said. "That's very frustrating, I know, for those who live in those communities." 
Frances was larger, while Charley and Ivan were more powerful. But Jeanne was bad enough, once again sending the Sunshine State into a state of emergency. 
Gov. Jeb Bush sought to reassure weary Floridians. "This will become a memory," he said. "This does come to an end, and when it does we can probably use the term 'normal' again." 
Seawater submerged the bottom floor of condomini­ums on Hutchinson Island, where Josh Lumberson rode out the storm. The parking lot was under 5 feet of sand and water, and sand rose to the kitchen cabinets inside first-floor condos. The ocean, once 75 yards away, lapped at the foun~ dation. 
"It sounded like the whole building was com­ing down," Lumberson said. "You could hear every metal screw coming out of the walls." 
As the wind subsided, the clang of metal siding could still be heard on the barrier island. 
Jeanne made landfall as a Category 3 hurricane with winds of up to 120 mph just before midnight Saturday at Hutchinson Island, 35 miles north of West Palm Beach. Frances struck in almost the same spot. 
Once inland, Jeanne's 400-mile diameter system trudged across the state, passing northeast of Tampa. It then headed toward the Panhandle, which was still recovering from Ivan. 

CoLUMBIA 

Airborne raid destroys drug lab 
Associated Press 
CUMBITARA -Seven helicopter gunships skirted the steep mountain­sides, then quickly descended on a cocaine lab, marked by a smoke grenade thrown by one of the raiders. 
As the heavily armed anti-narcotics police jumped from the hovering craft. accompanied by an informant wearing a ski mask, peasants who worked the coca fields and in the complex scampered away. 
Associated Press journalists accom­parried the officers on the lightning raid Saturday, allowing them to see firsthand the type of dangerous oper­ation that has put a crimp in Colombia's cocaine production. 
So far this year, raids have destroyed 100 labs that convert coca paste -made from the leaves of the coca bush -into cocaine, said Col. Alvaro Velandia, dep1,tty director of Colombia's anti-narcotics police. 
Saturday's raid in the mountains of southwestern Colombia showed that precise intelligence, coordination between police and helicopter squadrons and swift action are need­ed to destroy the drug labs, often located in remote, rugged regions teeming with Marxist rebels, who make huge profits by controlling the drug trade. 
After flying over vast coca fields hugging the base of steep mountain­sides, the U.S.-made helicopters ­three Black hawks and four Hueys ­circled the cocaine producing com­plex. One raider dropped a smoke grenade, its purple ·cloud billowing against a background of bright green coca bushes. 

page 6 Monday, September 27, 2004
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


0 N s 
M U S C 

Here Come the Irish 
http:/ /performingarts.nd.edu 
Friday, October 1, 9 p.m. 
$19,$15 ND/SMC/HC, $10 Students 

A spirited concert performed by ND Alumni who are now professional musicians including Kennedy's Kitchen, Celtic Fire, Sean Ryan, Danielle Svonavec, and The O'Neill Brothers. Join us as our favorite musical Demers come home to celebrate the opening of the performing arts center. 

Eileen Ivers and Immigrant Soul 
http:/ /www.eileenivers.com/ 
Friday, October 8, 9 p.m. 
$44, $35 ND/SMC/HC, $15 Students 

Eileen Ivers rose to prominence as a nine time all~rish fiddle champion and as the fiery fiddler of "Riverdance," but her passion for exploration has catapulted her to rarified air where only virtuosos ploy. Her boldly imaginative style earned her the tirle HJimi Hendrix of the violin" from a New York Times reviewer. Eileen Ivers and Immigrant Soul storm the stage with matchless energy and an eclectic spirit. Respectful of their Irish roots, they infuse their concert with fresh vitality drawing from the rhythms of latin and African music. Eileen Ivers will change the way you think about the violin. 

Mariza 

http:/ /www.ritmoartists.com/Mariza/mariza.htm Wednesday, October 13 at 8 p.m. 
$37, Faculty/Staff $30, Students $15 

Fado is the blues of Portugal, and for a generation there was only one nome in Fodo, but a new, powerful, and beautiful voice has reached the pinnacle. Mariza, recent winner of the BBC award for best European act, sings with a passion so soulful it is difficult to believe it comes from a 28-year-old woman. It is precisely this duality that makes Mariza the epitome of Fado. Fodo is known for poetry that fuses opposite emotions-impossible pain with fervent joy, or lifes cruelty with loves intensity. Marizo is a diva-in the best sense of the word -and when she puts her personal, indelible stamp on a song, she leaves audiences spellbound and breathless. 


A L E 
Academy of Saint Martin in the Fields 
with Christopher O'Riley 
http:/ /www.asmf.org/l2stoa.htm 
http:/ /www.npr.org/programs/pt/features/4a/ 
oriley.02.html 
Thursday, October 14 at 8 p.m. 
$62, Faculty/Staff $50, Students $20 
Best known for his nationally broadcast radio program From the Top, swashbuckling pianist Christopher O'Riley has emerged as one of the most distinguished, versatile and decorated pianists of his generation. He has won the coveted Von Cliburn competition solidifying his stature among classical musicians, but has also interpreted the music of the rock group Radiohead. Not many other classical pianists hove tracks named Subterranean Homesick Alien. O'Riley will be joined by the Academy of Saint Martin in the Fields, a chamber orchestra which has been the benchmark of Baroque music for almost 50 years. They are simply the best, and when they get together with O'Riley sparks will fly. O'Riley says, "I love that dramatic aspect, the hero soloist versus the orchestra. There's such a wonder­ful sense of tension." 
The Cimbalo Cromatico (aChromatic Harpsichord) of the early Baroque 
a lecture-recital by Willard Martin and 
Christopher Stembridge 
Tuesday, September 28 at 4 p.m. Free and open to the public 
A rare and wonderful opportunity to hear an early instrument that many believe sounds more pure than other keyboard instruments. The Cimbalo Cromatico has not been used for more than 200 years. Don't miss it. 


F L M 

Outfoxed 
177 minutes) http:/ /www.outfoxed.org/ 
Thursday, September 30 7:00pm & 1O:OOpm 
A "balanced and fair" look at "fair and balanced" reporting. MoveOn.Org reviews Fox News. 
NO Cinema screenings usually sell out. Call or stop by early. Movies go on sale on Monday. Call 631-2800. 

N 0 w 


THEATRE 

Avanti: A Postindustrial Ghost Story 
by Jessica Chalmers 
http:/ /avanti.nd.edu 
Fridcw.SGLDeOUT:30 p.m. Sotvrd.:$0J;D-r:QUT, 7:30 p.m. Sundo'!5QL0b0Uf2:30 p.m. Stmda}SQJd)b(i)U]"l:30 p.rn. 
Monday, September 27, 7:30 p.m. 
Thur:;d~GI;D.OUT, 7:30p.m. 
Fridoy,S()U) 10Ufp.m. Soturd.S,C!)liO()UTlO p m. 
Sunday, October 3, 7:30p.m. 
A collaboration with The Builders Association 
Performed at the Deluxe Sheet Metal Factory, 
Downtown South Bend 
$18, ND/SMC/HC $16, All Students $12 
An original multimedia theatrical production, 
written by Notre Dome's own OBIE-aword winning playwright Jessica Chalmers. 


Second City Comedy 
Friday, October 22 at 9 p.m. $31, Faculty/Staff $25, Students $15 

Always brash, original, and daring, Second City Comedy brings its unique brand of sketch comedy and improvisation to Notre Dame. The concept is simple enough: six actors and an accompanist toke the stage and make you laugh. Although they have 45 years of archives to draw upon, their work is always fresh, topical, and inventive. They ore ready to comment on every social debate, political scandal, or public disgrace, and theyre here just two weeks before the presidential election, which just might be on their minds. 
Monday, September 27, 2004 
MARKET RECAP 


Dow 10,047.24 +8.34
}ones 
~ 
Same: ~ Composite Volume: 1,814 178 • 1,250,797,952 

AMEX  1,264.97  +3.51  
NASDAQ  1,879.48  -6.95  
NYSE  6,531.37  +9.94  
S&PSOO  1,110.11  +1.75  
NIKK£1(Tokyo)  10,809.60  ~85.56  
ffif IOO(London) 4,578.10  +9.80  

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -2.65  -0.50  18.40  
INTEL CORP (INTC)  -1.23  -0.25  20.13  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFf)  -0.22  -0.06  27.29  
SUN MICROSYS (SUNW)  -2.13  -0.09  4.13  
APPLIED MATL (AMAT)  -2.97  -0.51  16.65  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.02  +0.0 I  48.00  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.07  +0.03  40.31  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.36  +0.12  33.23  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.30  +0.05  16.91  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.42  48.88  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -2.90  409.70  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -2.875 ·  I 00.50  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  II 0.61  
EURO  0.8141  
POUND  0.5536  
CANADIAN$  1.2752  

IN BRIEF 
Unions decide to split company 
ROME -Alitalia signed a deal with eight of nine unions Friday to split the loss-making Italian airline in two -part of the company's plan to stave off bankruptcy. 
The deal foresees the creation of AZ-Fly, a company that will bring together Alitalia's !1ight operations, and AZ-Service, which will comprise the ground services business, the company said. 
It was a breakthrough_ for management, as the unions initially had strongly opposed the plan to split the company. 
Guglielmo Epifani, leader of the country's largest union CGIL, called the deal a "mira­cle," according to the AGI news agency. 
Under the terms of the agreement, the Italian Economy Ministry. which currently holds a 62 percent stake in Alitalia, will keep a minimum stake of 30 percent in AZ-Fiy. The rest of the shares will be sold to institutional investors. 
Alitalia said AZ-Fly will have a controlling 51 percent stake in AZ-Service, with the remaining 49 percent going to a state-owned company. State holding company Fintecna is widely tipped to become an AZ-Service share­holder. Oil prices rise as production lags 
NEW YORK -Oil prices neared $49 a barrel Friday, capping a rise of 7 percent for the week, as Gulf of Mexico crude pro­duction rebounded at a slower-than-expect­ed rate in the wake of Hurricane Ivan. 
Light crude for November delivery rose 42 cents to settle at a new high of $48.88 per barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The price of oil is up 73 percent from a year ago. 
The federal Minerals Management Service reported Friday that daily oil pro­ductU:Jn in the Gulf remains 27 percent below normal at about 1.2 million barrels per day -the same level as Thursday. The agency said 10 million barrels of oil, the equivalent of 1. 7 percent of annual produc­tion in the region, have been lost since last Monday, when offshore producers began evacuating crews. 
"There continues to be hope for a quicker rebound in output," said John Kilduff, sen­ior oil analyst at Fimat USA in New York. 

THE OBSERVER 








USINESS 
page 7 

Chinese block Google results 
U.S. company doesn't know how to handle Chinese ban on certain Web sites 
~sociated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO Go ogle Inc.'s recently launched news service in China doesn't display results from Web sites blocked by that country's authorities, raising prickly questions for an online search engine that has famously promised to "do no evil." 
Dynamic Internet Technology Inc., a research firm striving to defeat online censorship, conduct­ed tests that found Google omits results from the gov­ernment-banned sites if search requests are made through computers con­necting to the Internet in China. 
Steered by an identical search request, computers with a United States con­nection retrieved results from the sites blocked by China. 
"That's a problem b.ecause the Chinese people need to know there are alternative opinions from the Chinese government and there are many things being covered up by the government," said Bill Xia, Dynamic's chief executive. "Users expect Google to return anything on the Internet. That's what a search engine does." 

Xia suspects Google is cooperating with the cient and useful. from at least eight sites, recent years, Google has Chinese government's cen­If Google were to display i~cluding drawn fire for displaying sorship efforts to smooth results from sites the www.epochtimes.com and some results too prominent­the way for expansion plans Chinese government blocks, www.voanews.com. ly and downplaying others. that could help the computer users would end Google says the Chinese Some organizations also Mountain View-based com­up clicking on links that news service draws upon have lodged complaints pany boost future profits. lead nowhere _ something roughly 1,000 sites -a about the company's poli­
The Chinese government the search engine has broader array than in cies governing the kinds of lashed out at Google two always tried to avoid. Germany, which trolls 700 ads it will accept. years ago when it tem­"Google has decided that sites, and Italy, which moni­Google's pledge to "do no porarily blocked access to in order to create the best tors about 250 sites. evil" trumpeted by compa­the company's main search possible search experience "It's probably killing them ny co-founders Larry Page engine before relenting for our mainland China to leave some (Chinese) and Sergey Brin -is under public pressure. users we will not include sites out of its index, but spurring even greater 
Google acknowledges its sites whose content is not they have probably decided scrutiny of company behav­Chinese language news accessible," company they are doing greater good ior. service -introduced on a spokeswoman Debbie Frost by providing access to all If it wanted to take a test basis two weeks ago -said Friday. these other sites," said political stand, Google could is leaving out results from Only a "tiny fraction" of Forrester Research analyst consider posting a dis­government-banned sites, Web sites are being exclud­Charlene Li. claimer on the Chinese but the company believes ed by the Chinese news Complaints about Google's news site advising visitors the omissions jibe with its service, Frost said. Xia said search results aren't new. the search results may be long-standing mission to his tests indicated Google is As its search engine has affected by government make its search engine effi-excluding Chinese results become more popular in censorship, said analyst Li. 

Trump attempts new approach 
woman for Chanin Capital Partners, also would have filed for bankrupt­
Associated Press 

which represents holders of Trump cy protection. 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J.-After one Casino Holdings bonds. · But Trump needed bondholders to deal to save his casino company fell In Indiana, the company operates sign off on the restructuring, and apart this week, Donald Trump is a riverboat in Gary and this sum­that did not happen. trying a new approach. mer won the license to open a casi­Now, Trump is dealing with the 
Trump is negotiating with the no in French Lick. bondholders again -but without bondholders to whom his Trump On Wednesday, Trump announced DLJ's involvement. Hotels and Casino Resorts business that the company and investment "We have a wonderful relation­owes $1.8 billion, according to pub­banker DLJ Merchant Banking ship with the bondholders," Trump lished reports. Partners, which had engineered a told the Star-Ledger. "They are 
Under the deal, bondholders bailout program for the cash­really terrific people, smart and would trade some of the debt for a strapped casino operator, had bro­professional." controlling interest in the company, ken off negotiations. The Wall Street Journal reported The Star-Ledger of Newark and The Under the proposed DLJ bailout, that Trump would remain chief Wall Street Journal reported in announced Aug. 9, Trump would executive of the company under the Friday's editions. have surrendered his majority stake latest plans. 
Neither Trump nor his spokesman and his title as CEO but left his Trump also said he could priva­returned calls to The Associated name on the company and kept a tize the company or sell an asset, Press on Friday, nor did a spokes-25 percent interest. The company such as a casino, to raise cash. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Monday, September 27, 2004 
EdlVards accuses Bush of dividing Atnerica 
Associated Press 
DETHOIT-Democratic vice presidential candidate John Edwards on Sunday accused Hepublicans of an immoral attempt to divide the nation by taking partisan advantage of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
Speaking to several hundred people at New St. Paul Tabernacle Church of God in Christ, the North Carolina senator 
"The truth is 
criticized a working to elect Hepublican group's they're trying to Kerry, operates ad that portrays independently
exploit one ofour 
Democratic presH from the Bush
nation's greatest 

dential candidate campaign and is John Kerry as soft tragedies for barred from hav­on terrorism. personal gain." ing contact with 
"The truth is his advisers. they're trying to That that hasn't 
John Edwards 

exploit one of our stopped Kerry's nation's greatest Democratic campaign from tragedies for per­vice presidential claiming the Bush sonal gain. It is campaign is behind
candidate

immoral, and it is wrong," Edwards said. "This isn't a Hepublican issue or a Democratic issue." 
Edwards said everyone is unit­ed on doing whatever is neces­sary to protect the country from terrorism. 
The ad, which is airing at least in Iowa and Wisconsin, shows Sept. 11 hijacker Mohammed Atta, al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden and other terrorists, and shows pictures of terrorist attacks in Hussia, Spain and the United States, including wreck­age from the World Trade Center towers. It asks, "Would you trust Kerry against these fanatic killers?" and says "President Bush didn't start this war, but he will finish it." 
The ad is paid for by Progress for America Voter Fund, an affili­ate of a group created by Tony Feather, a longtime Hepublican consultant and former Bush aide. The group, like similar organiza­tions on the Democratic side 
the group's criti­
cism. 
Bush campaign spokesman Brian Jones said the president has called for an end to such attack ads by outside groups. 
"Nevertheless, the Kerry cam­paign has continually played pol­itics with the war on terror," Jones said. "Kerry's chronic vac­illation regarding the war on ter­ror raises serious questions about his character and his abili­ty to lead during these extraordi­nary times." 

Trrreatforcesennergencylandlllg 

Associated Press 

LONDON -A bomb threat that mentioned Iraq forced a New York-bound Greek air­liner to make an emergency landing Sunday at London's Stansted Airport escorted by military jets, authorities said. 
An airport spokeswoman said an Athens newspaper had received a phone call saying there was a bomb on board the Olympic Airlines plane. 
"Flight 411 Olympic for America has a bomb for Iraq," a caller to the Ethnos daily said, according to a tape the newspaper made available to journalists. In a second call, a voice that sounded like a different per­son said, "Are you listening? 
Flight 411 Olympic for America, bomb. America will see. Six o'clock message for you." 
Authorities immediately notified the pilot of the call, and he asked for a military escort. 
Britain's Hoyal Air Force scrambled planes to assist the Airbus A340 airliner, the Ministry of Defense said. The plane, headed from Athens to New York's John F. Kennedy International Airport, landed safely at Stansted, north of London, at 3:30 p.m., an air­port spokeswoman said. 
Olympic said in a statement that it learned of the threat about two hours earlier and notified the pilot immediately. 
Chief executive Leonard Vlamis said the passengers had remained calm. 
"There was no problem inside the flight, everything was normal," he said. 
He emphasized that strict security measures had been observed at Athens' Eleftherios Venizelos airport. 
· The Stansted spokeswoman said the plane, with 301 pas­sengers and crew on board, landed in "full emergency" status and was safely evacu­ated. 
"It is not believed to be any­thing out of the ordinary at this stage," a Department of Transport spokesman said on condition of anonymity. "Fortunately nothing has exploded, if indeed ther.e was a bomb on board, but we take all threats seriously." Essex police said teams were removing all baggage from the plane for searching. 



Monday, September 27, 2004 
The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Top al-Qaida operative killed 
that tells us how far we can spread outwards,

Juniper 
because we don't want continued from page 1 a sprawling, non-walka­
ble campus," Lyphout cerns, as construction on said. "We will continue t h e t 0 north­keep 
ern area "We have a blue line that a I I 
of cam­n e w
tells us how far we can 

p u s c o n ­promis­spread struc­es an outwards, because we don't t i o n 
increase within
want a

i n t h e 
pedes­sprawling ... b I u e t r i an campus." I in e, traffic. and to It is maxi­
Jim Lyphout 

a I s o mize 
part of vice president for h a
t t t h e business operations space, campus w e master had to plan that places limits on eliminate Juniper how far the campus will Road." expand in the quest for development. Contact Amanda Michaels 
"We have a blue line at amichael@nd.edu 
PAKISTAN 
Associated Press 
KARACHI, -Paramilitary police killed a suspected top al­Qaida operative, wanted for alleged involvement in the kid­napping of Wall Street Journal reporter Daniel Pearl, during a four-hour shootout Sunday at a southern Pakistan house, the information minister said. Two other men were arrested. 
Amjad Hussain Farooqi was wanted for his alleged role in the kidnapping and beheading of reporter Daniel Pearl in 2002 and two assassination attempts against President Gen. Pervez Musharraf in December 2003. 
"I as chief spokesman for the government of Pakistan confirm that our forces have killed Amjad Hussain Farooqi," Information Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed told The Associated Press by phone from Amsterdam, where he has gone on an official trip with Musharraf. 

Ahmed said "two or three other people were also arrested during a big gunfight." He declined to identify them but said they were still being ques­tioned by authorities and were "very important." 
"This is the work of our secu­rity agencies, and they have done a great job," Ahmed said. 
An intelligence official in Karachi identified the arrested men as Abdul Rehman and Yaqoob Farooqi. It was not clear what relation, if any, Yaqoob Farooqi had to Amjad Hussain Farooqi. Other officials could not immediately confirm that information. 
Pakistan is a key ally of the United States in its war against terrorism and has arrested more than 600 al-Qaida suspects, including several senior figures in the terror network. Many of them have been handed over to 
U.S. authorities. 
Since mid-July, Pakistan says it has arrested at least 70 ter­rorist suspects, including Mohammed Naeem Noor Khan, an alleged al-Qaida computer expert, and Ahmed Khalfan Ghailani, a Tanzanian suspect in the 1998 bombings of U.S. embassies in east Africa that killed more than 200 people. 
Earlier Sunday, intelligence officials said authorities launched a raid on the house in Nawabshah, a town about 125 miles northeast of the main southern city of Karachi, after police received a tip that Farooqi was hiding there. 
Two men who tried to flee -one of whom was injured in the gunbattle -were arrest­ed, said local police official Ismail Jamali, adding that intelligence officials led them away in blindfolds. 
A paramilitary official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the siege last­ed four hours. 
The official said the suspect who was killed -presumably Amjad Hussain Farooqi ­had shouted in Urdu, the main language in Pakistan, that he'd prefer death to cap­ture. The suspect also pointed to the sky and shouted: "I ful­filled my promise to Allah," he said. 
One woman and two chil­dren were also taken from the house. Firefighters were called to put out a blaze in one room that broke out dur­ing the gunbattle. 
After a search, officials left the house carrying three boxes. It was not immediately clear what they contained. 
Farooqi was believed to 
.have been an associate of Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the reputed al-Qaida No. 3 

captured in Pakistan last year. 
YOUil CATERING 

Farooqi had been missingSOLUTIONIll since Pearl was abducted in Karachi in January 2002.
BOX LUNCHES. PLATTERS. PARTIES! 

Pearl's captors beheaded
DELIVERY ORDERS will include a 

the journalist and released a
delivery charge per item. 

videotape of the killing. Four Islamic militants have been convicted of his kidnapping but seven other suspects ­including those who allegedly slit his throat -remain at large. 
Farooqi, thought to be 32, was born in a village in east­ern Punjab province. His fam­ily says he was radicalized by a visit to Kashmir, where he trained with Islamic militants fighting against Indian securi­ty forces. He later visited Taliban-ruled Afghanistan. 
"We pray to God Almighty to
FREEBIES ISUBS & CLUBS ONLYI accept my brother's sacri­
Onion. lettuce, alfalfa sprouts, tomato. mayo, sliced fice.," Mohammed Javed, 
cucumber. Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar. and oregano. Farooqi's elder brother, told the AP by phone from the vil­lage. Javed said the government had not informed them about Farooqi's death, and he 
· demanded that the body be returned to allow its burial
SOUTH BEND 54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 574.277.8500 
according to Islamic ritual. Javed said the family did not know whether Farooqi 
had been involved in acts of terrorism. 
''VOUR MOM WANT$ VOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOliN'$!'' © 
THE ()BSER\lER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, September 27, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 

Reflecting on forgotten wars 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, TN 46~:>6 024 South Dining Hall, Nove Damo, IN 465~ 
EDITOR IN CJ.Ul!f Matt !.mar 
MAN.\GING EDITOR  BVS!Nl!SS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
ASS'r. MAN.\G!NG EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

NEWS EDITOR• Claire Heininger VU:.WPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SI'ORTS EDITOR: He;uher Van Hoegarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith IN Focus EDITOR• Meghan Martin· SAINT MA.Rv's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR• Mike Harkins ADvERTISING MANAGER• Carrie Franklin 
AD DllSIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINlSTRATORI Mary Allen 
CoNTROI..I..ER: Paula Garcia 
0FRC.E MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
AoV!'RTISINQ 
(574) 631-6900 obs~-ad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHiEf (574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.L@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l @nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.J@nd.~du 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 s~ne.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'$ DESK 
sm~.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO 0ESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
OitStRVERONL/NE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
Th~: Observer is the independent, daily n~paper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, induding adV<:rtiscments, is not governed by policies ofthe adniinisrrarion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on contt:nt. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commenwies, lerters and columns presenr the vieW5 of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewptlinr space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through leners is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include con~t intilrmation. 
Qrrtstions rrgarding Obs~rv~r policits Jhould b~ dirrct~d wEditor in Chi4Matt Louu 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tho Ob.cf'Wt (USP) S•)9J.40QO) • puhh;W MofMUy duduJh FtKh:r esa:pr d~oulnc t<um ..nJ '""""tma f'l''tu<h.. A Nha.r:~io.m ru Til(' (."):hu:r'<'' t~ .S~OO fOTulK' ;auJnnU. y~: J~S fur onco K"fllntu. 
11..-Ob~ct ~ ~ ~rnkr nft!k-~xi.u~d Pf't'ft AU rc:pro~~o~'"c.iou rifh<' "'" 
f4'$CfW:d. 
The ('».IC'f'YCT j, pubJi.JixtJ IU P.o.a... Q Ol4 So>u<h Do.,;nl H>tl Ul4 S.uoh Dinoog H•U Not"' t'""'· IN ~~~77'> Nom Li•At<:.IN 465;6-077'> 
l~•oodi<.l """"' p.lld .. No«< LiltA< .tnd .uidmon.! "'"'BAS, ofT~CC~J. 
,tK-tn! olid..!rt")l l.-'(X"'LI~fl~ trY, 'l'M()bu::nrct 
Thc()~W"t i• • mcmbctl)(cbc 1\uoci:.ml. f'tm.. Nl tc"pt4>d~~icm rllhu ~ ~ 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Teresa Fralish Matt Mooney Eileen Duffy Kate Gales Jen Rowling Kaitlin Seryak 
Viewpoint Scene Justin Spack Christie Boisen Graphics Illustrator Desiree Zamora Meg Dwyer 
In the more than half-century that has passed since World War II, millions of lives have been lost to war, most of them· virtually ignored. Consider what has been the most destructive conflict since World War II. No, it is not Gulf War I or Michael 
II. It is not the Poffenberger Vietnam War or the slaughtering of East Timorese. It is SayWhyNot a five-year conflict in the Democratic Republic of the Congo that ended in 2002 after claiming the lives of at least 3 mil­lion. 
Normally, violence that involves nine different nations and claims as its victims one in every 10 citizens in a country with rainforests the size of Western Europe would demand constant front-page headlines around the world. Obviously, this was not the case. 
But what does this have to do with us? There is a long history of Western pow­ers interfering in African lives in destruc­tive ways. In the DRC, it began in 1491 when Portuguese explorers visiting the African kingdom of Kongo opened the . door to the slave trade. It progressed to 1884 with the arrival of Belgian colonial authorities, whose desire to exploit one of the world's most resource-rich regions led them to introduce forced labor to local populations, with punishment of systematic rape, torture and murder for resisting. Those policies killed ofT half of the Congo's population by 1908 and set in motion the gradual unraveling of the local norms and practices that had guar­anteed relative peace, stability and equality for millennia. With colonialism came the opportunity for previously unimagined wealth and power as well as the resulting explosion of violence. 
If you fast forward a century and a half. Western greed has taken on a more subtle tone, though it is just as real. During the recent conflict in the Congo, the governments involved (Uganda, Rwanda, Zimbabwe, Angola, Burundi, Namibia, Sudan and Chad) as well as various rebel groups exploited the work of Congolese people in the diamond, coltan, and gold mines, expropriating the valuable minerals and using the profits to buy arms. The international communi­ty did nothing to stop the steady stream of Western arms going into the country (after all, there was quite a hefty profit being made for corporate arms manufac­turers). The international community failed to prevent Congolese resources from reaching our living rooms, allowing us all to participate in the violence. Conflict diamonds and gold made their way into our jewelry stores, and coltan into all of our cell phones. 

The United States also had a hand in the politics that led to the war, at times supporting the reign of President Mobutu, a dic­tator who makes Saddam look altru­istic, and at other times lending support to the forces pushing for a regime change. Always, however, the position of the U.S. on politics with­in the coun­try reflected its economic interests, prod­ded by corpora­tions looking to get their hands on the Congo's wealth. Blinded by self-interest and· the opportunity for profit, we can convince ourselves that anything is in the best interest oflocal people. The result: the death-of 3 million people, the rape of women from little girls to grandmothers, the proliferation of small arms and the screeching halt of day-to-day activity as citizens undertook forced labor or fled for their lives, banished to existence as refugees. 
Now, even as the new government in the DRC struggles to consolidate power and gain control over the numerous parts of the country still engaged in con­flict, there are once again calls to open up the mines to international investment. The meager allocation of U.N. troops in the East was recently overrun by a Rwanda-supported rebel group, and a band of militants recently crossed into Burundi and killed more than 100 Congolese refugees. Stable infrastruc­tures to guarantee peace have yet to be developed. 
This rush to profit is sowing the seeds for more bloodshed and loss of life. Earnings from Congolese mining ven­tures have never made it to those who need it most. They are not yet directed to AIDS treatment, education or farm improvement. In this resource-rich coun­try, 73 percent of the population su!Ters from under-nourishment. Structures of accountability to the Congolese people 
still need to be developed and respected. This reality must inevitably raise a question I'm sure we would rather avoid con­fronting: how many other 
conflicts which our lifestyles and corpo­rate policy contribute to are we 
ignorant or? 
Those of us on this end of the destructive cycle do not have 
to deal with any of the consequences of our irresponsibility. as we might otherwise be 

forced to search in earnest for ways we can end it. Our inaction demon­strates that we instead prefer to receive the benefits and watch the death lay out before us. The United States has the power to ensure these conflicts never reach our doorstep, even if the plunders from them do, but it is our responsibility as citizens to recognize and reject the practices that are complicit in structural violence. Meanwhile, wars rage on in Uganda, Colombia, Sudan, Burundi, Ivory Coast, Burma, Kashmir, Afghanistan ... the list goes on. 
Michael Poffenberger is a senior anthropology and peace studies major who is working with the first-ever uni· versity initiative ofAfrica Faith and Justice Network. He can be contacted at mpoffenb@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Science colu111n deserves better writing 
Professor Kristin Schrader-Frechette has been writing a column in The Observer's Viewpoint pages titled "Science Watch." This series of columns has been nearly unread­able because of their dense thicket of accusations com­bined with bizarre sentence structure and grammatical errors. 
I admit I disagree with her assessments of the utility of nuclear power. I believe that if we were to meet, we would disagree on a host of issues. However, I believe the Notre Dame community is served better without repeated refer­ences to "toxic chemicals" and "Mobile Chernobyl" without any attempt at context. Pray tell, what are the folks at 
OBSERVER POLL 

How many of the Presid~ntial debates do you plan on watching? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

Honeywell doing with their vats of toluene? Bathing in them? Washing their dogs? Inquiring minds want to know. 
As one of the poor saps whose eyes have.been drawn to her column because of its title, I have to beg you: at least, please get her to write better. She's a full professor -how in God's name does she get to start a sentence with "And"? (6th paragraph, Sept. 24, starting with "On the other hand ... "3rd paragraph, Aug. 27, starting with "And things ... ") 
Jim Tung graduate student Scpr. 24 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The ultimate measure ofa man is not where he stands in moments ofcomfort, but where he stands at times ofchallenge and controversy." 
Martin Luther King, Jr. activist 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, September 27, 2004 page 11 
Visa represents freedom 

The decision of the Department of State, based upon information and advice provided by the Department of Homeland Security, to rescind the visa for Tariq Ramadan, a well­known scholar of Islam and Muslim leader, 
runs counter to American  
principles and values, is a  John Esposito  
threat to academic free­ 
dom. undermines  
President Bush's policies and is against America's  Guest Column  
national interest.  

Professor Ramadan is a scholar recog­nized in Europe, America and many parts of the Muslim world. He is a prominent voice of mainstream Islam. Ramadan is a scholar and public intellectual whose positions can be found in his writings, speeches and appearances in major media. He is a well­published scholar in French and English whose positions have been stated · clearly in major publications such as "To Be a European Muslim" and most recently in "Western Muslims and the Future of Islam" (Oxford University Press, 2003). Ramadan is a reformer who has argued forcefully for substantive Islamic reforms and an effective advocate that Muslims in Europe and America become integral members of the countries they inhab­it, exemplifying Western standards of toleration, pluralism and interfaith understanding. He has been active in inter­faith dialogue and an advocate of peaceful conflict resolution. At the same time, as with many intellec­tuals, political activists and religious reformers, who address major religious, political and social problems, he has taken positions on controversial topics with criti­cal comments on issues such as France's ban on the wearing of a Muslim headscarf, the authoritarian nature of many Muslim regimes, the dangers of religious extremism and the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. There are those who agree with him and those who do not. 
The fact that Ramadan received his visa after a rigorous screening process used for foreign visitors and then had-it revoked without any clear explanation or evidence for the decision has raised concerns that pressure to reverse the granting of the visa came from those who disagree with Ramadan's views as a scholar and as a pub­lic intellectual. Post Sept. 11, it is especially important to remember that disagreement and controversy do not constitute a security risk. Fear of such a disagreement is rein­forced by the unsubstantiated charges and claims made by some media commentators such as the New York Sun columnist Daniel Pipes of Ramadan's alleged "links" to terror­ist groups. As is typical of many of Pipes intemperate attacks against Muslim intellec­tuals and major Muslim groups, he fails to provide any hard evidence but instead relies on hearsay, speculation and rumor. Pipes' unsubstantiated charges and specious form of reasoning would not be acceptable in an undergraduate paper. There is nothing in the public record regarding Ramadan, or in his scholarship, that would indicate any basis for such allegations. 
Denying qualified scholars entry into the United States because of their political beliefs or unsubstantiated charges brought against them strikes at the core of American principles and values and is a direCt attack against freedom of expression and academic freedom. For this reason, the decision has 
been criticized by prominent professional organizations here and overseas among them: The Middle East 
Studies Association of North America (MESA) the pre­eminent professional 
association in the field, The American Academy of Religion (AAR), the major pro­
fessional association of scholars and teachers in religion, The American Civil Liberties, The American Association of University 
Professors and oth­ers. Critics like Pipes seeks to discredit and eliminate anyone who represents positions that do not support their ideo­logical agenda in order to silence dissent. This under­mines U.S. national interests and 
weakens American prospects for suc­cess in the war against terrorism, by under­mining the influence of those Muslims who themselves oppose terrorist extremism. It runs counter to President Bush's stated poli­cy, as described by Condoleeza Rice in mid­August, to_ pursue a public diplomacy that seeks to win the hearts and minds of the mainstream majority in the Muslim world. Today, U.S. government officials should be talking to, (and the American people should be listening to), Muslim leaders like Tariq Ramadan, rather than excluding them from the United States. The University of Notre Dame and the Kroc Institute are an ideal place for such an exchange to begin. 
John L. Esposito is University professor of religion & international affairs and profes­sor ofIslamic studies at Georgetown University. His most recent books include "Unholy War: Terror in the Name ofIslam" and "What Everyone Needs to Know About Islam." 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Keeping non-partisan-status 
In response to the cries of partisanship expressed in Wednesday's Viewpoint, the steering committee for ND Rock the Vote would like to set the record straight. . 
First, certain members of the community need to realize that ND Rock the Vote is a separate venture from the national organization Rock the Vote. Beyond supplying our venture with voter registration materials and a few bold "Rock the Vote" posters, we have no affiliation with the national organization. ND Rock the Vote is a venture strictly sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and run by student leaders from various political and non-partisan campus organizations. 
Anyone who would like to learn more about our particular mission and the events we have organized for Notre Dame in this election year can visit the Center for Social Concerns website. Likewise, anyone who would like to know the details of the Youth Venture "Choose or Lose" Grant awarded to Notre Dame by MTV can find more information and a list of the other 19 grant recipients at www.youthventure.org. 
Second, anyone who believes that partisanship pervades ND Rock the Vote should know that it appears so for one reason: College Republicans are significantly underrepresented at our weekly commit­tee meetings. 
College Republicans, please know that while your co-presidents faith­fully attend each Rock the Vote meeting, your general absence is noticeable, disturbing and unacceptable. As student coordinators, we unfortunately assume that your absence is by choice for ND Rock the Vote publicizes the time and place of our meetings -Wednesdays at 5 pm at the esc-and all are welcome to attend. 
As leaders and politically conscious citizens, College Republicans, you have an obligation to foster healthy political dialogue in your time here at Notre Dame. With 40 days left until the election, we hope that you will not continue to ignore this opportunity to share your ideas and offer your unique perspectives. 
On behalf of the steering committee, we would like to formally re­invite you and all the other loyal sons and daughters of Notre Dame to participate in ND Rock the Vote and make it your own. 
Kate Distler 
)Ufl!Or 
Pasquerilla Easr Sepr. 24 

Appealing to all i\mericans 
Last week, several letters to the editor attempted to defend the recent actions of the College Republicans by turning the tables on Rock the Vote and the College Democrats. In particular, Kara Bailey speculates in her Sept. 22 submission that should Rock the Vote organize a voter registration initiative in Granger or a likewise conservative community, the College Democrats would withdraw their support. 
It is funny that Bailey specifically cites Granger as an example of a town she thinks the Democrats would likely abandon. In actuality, local Democrats, including several members of the College Democrats are actively canvassing in Granger on behalf of the 2nd Congressional District Democratic candidate Joe Donnelly. Unlike the College Republicans, we Democrats believe that our party platform has something to offer to all Americans. We do not shy away from registering voters from any walk of life. Last spring, our club participated in a campus wide non-partisan voter regis­tration drive;-yel another testament to the fact that we believe in the inclu­sive ideals of our party and are not afraid of who will be showing up to the polls on Election Qay. On the other hand, by rejecting opportunities to regis­ter urban minority voters, the College Republicans sent the message to the Notre Dame comrhunity that the Republican Party is an exclusive organiza­tion that can't be bothered registering certain groups of people to vote because they can only offer benefits to those who meet a certain profil!'l. 
Nicola Bunick co-President, College Democrats junior Lyons Hall Sept. 24 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
~· 
. ­




~i~);J~lJ£1::~ ~;:4i~~-~-­
.···-. ---·-· 
THE 0BSERVIR 


CENE
page 12 
Monday, September 27, 2004 
Avanti: a true ghost story 
Play sheds light on South Bend's industrial history 

ByKCKENNEY 
Scene Wrirer 
Outside of the borders of Notre 
Dame is the city of South Bend, a 
midwest town with history like 
any other. But this history is often 
over looked as progress goes 
sweeping by. A new play written 
by an assistant professor at the 
University hopes to change that 
and shed some light on the indus­
trial history of South Bend. 
Prior to the 1960s in South Bend, Studebaker cars were once built and shipped out all over the country. With the growing prob­lems of out-sourcing, product competition and labor unions, the company died and left graves in the form of massive factory build­ings where memories haunt the production floors like so many ghosts. 
"The ghosts -the ones who belong here ... they're upset. You've upset them." 
If this sounds like an ominous setup, it is no coincidence. The show "Avanti: A Postindustrial Ghost Story" is just that, a ghost story. It uses voices of the present and past to create a story that is both historically intriguing and suspenseful. The story opens up a doorway, literally, into the past as ghosts of the Studebaker plant take a man meant to demolish the now rundown factory back to the days of the plant's actual demise. 
When a demolition team arrives at the sight of the plant, it, too, is somewhat offset by past stories about ghosts that haunt the ruins. The team did not realize that it would actually meet one of the ghosts. Separated in the maze of factory, one of the members of the team discovers the ghost of an old secretary, Irena Stoup, who worked in the plant and was there to see its close in 1963. 
She takes the foreman, Wayne Kaminski, back in time to play witness to the final days of the factory, as the last truly hopeful president of the company does what he can to keep the company afloat. His solution is to create a new, stylish car known as the "Avanti." The effort fails and the company closes a year later. The foreman goes back and forth from the past to the present, trying to draw connections with what went wrong then and how it has unal­terably affected our present day state. 

The show is produced inside the old Deluxe Sheet Metal Factory in downtown South Bend. This is the perfect setting for the show as it creates an industrial atmosphere well-suited to the setting of the show itself while at the same time offering a great deal of versatility for the production company, The Builders Association out of New York City. In terms of industrial atmosphere, the stage itself is simply a room in the factory, with concrete and grates in the floor and metal girders in the ceiling. The audience easily feels as though it is actually exploring the old Studebaker plant as the ghost guides Kaminski through the past. 
The Builders Association, how­ever, made this show truly unique and worth seeing. The Builders Association is a New York-based performance and media company utilizing the full scale of contem­porary media technology there is to offer. The writer, Professor Jessica Chalmers, knew director Mariane Weems from her days in New York and had worked before with this media-intensive style with previous shows she has writ­ten. Bringing in sound and video designers from New York, the simple stage becomes a wonder­land of sights and sounds, an interactive light show the charac­ters actually work within as though it was a real world. Scrims fly in and out of the stage to cre­ate multi-leveled scenes and add depth and dimension. Projected visualizations create the feeling of 
being in a car on the highway or let the audience see old news clip­pings of factory strikes and make them feel as though they are at the strike itself. 
As if this was not enough, there is even a musical element to the show itself as one character is heard singing at one point about the woes that he faces as the head of a failing company. Background underscoring also plays very well into the general spooky nature of the show itself. 
Ultimately, that's what this show is -a ghost story. It has the typi­cal offsetting feel of a ghost story -you don't know what's going to come next, people disappear and reappear in this reality and in oth­ers and there is an overly lying ominous tone of everything that goes on. But it becomes another kind of "ghost story" also. It becomes one in which ghosts are the main characters and they try to tell their story to a contempo­rary audience with the hopes of averting their own fates. There is an unsettling feeling as the audi­ence looks back into the past; the characters of that past seem to be able to see forward into their own fate. 
In the audience were men and women that were once on that Studebaker assembly line. For them, these are not simply voices of the past, but voices they knew. This is one of the many connec­tions to reality this show delivers that makes it strike a very real chord with the audience. While the acting or writing of the show may not be stunning, the produc­tion of it, the creation of this once real world by tantalizing all the senses, is. a compelling experience and worth the trip off campus to hear what these ghosts have to say. 
Contact KC Kenney at kkenm;y@nd.edu 




Photos courtesy of avant1.nd.edu 

The set of the play Is simply a room In an old factory, creating the Industrial atmosphere of an old Studebaker factory for audience members. 




NSIDER 
O
THE Monday, September 27, 2004 BSERVER Notre Dame 38, Washington :? 

Thunder from the sky 
Quinn tosses four touchdowns in 38-3 Irish victory 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sporrs Editor 
Last week they got it done on the ground, this week it was in the air. 
Brady Quinn threw four touchdown passes and Notre Dame put up 21 points in the first quarter as Washington remained winless, losing at Notre Dame Stadium 38-3. 
The Irish (3-1) put the game away early as Quinn was 9-of-13 in the first quarter, good for 14 7 yards and three touchdowns. By halftime, Quinn had thrown for 193 yards and a school record-tying four touchdowns against the Huskies (0-3). 
"I thought that we played a pretty good first half," Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. "For the most part, we were able to do everything that we setouttodo." ~. 
Tlw quick start was unusual for this Irish t<1am, which has taken awhile to get into its game plan this season. 
"Wp, really haven't had a quick start all ynar." Willingham said. "We had a great week of practice. 
"I thought we played well at Michigan State, but I sensed the play­ers wnren't happy with the entire per­formance. They came in with a great mindset to start the week and it went from there." 
Quinn drove the offense down the field on the second offensive posses­sion of the game, going 45 yards in five plays, capped by a 24-yard touch­down pass to Matt Shelton, the first of two on the day for the senior wide receiver. 
Shelton scored again eight minutes later on a 27-yard pass from Quinn, capping an 11-play, 79-yard drive that put the Irish ahead 14-0. 
Anthony Fasano caught an 18-yard touchdown pass to end the quarter, giving the Irish a 21-0 lead. 
In the second quarter, Washington put together a 58-yard drive that was abruptly ended with a third-and-goal incompletion by quarterback Casey Paus. · 
Thn Huskies were forced to kick a field goal, and Michael Braunstein that struggled to finish strong last both teams. Walker finished with 88 "We brought [Bonnell] in for the sec­knock<1d a 26-yarder through to cut weekend at Michigan State. yards on 23 carries, good for an aver­ond half to give him a few snaps in the Irish lead to 21-3. "We didn't play a complete football age of 3.5 yards per carry. live-game action," Washington coach 
But that was as elos<1 as they would game," Willingham said. "I think what we tried to do in the Keith Gilbertson said. "We also get. Quinn, who finished with 266 yards second half was to try come out those thought that he would give us another 
Quinn respondnd with another on 17-for-32 with one interception. first .couple of drives and put the thing option with his running ability for our touchdown pass to said he was wanting more away and we were not able to do offense." Fasano. and D.J. as well. that," offensive coordinator Bill But the suffocating Irish defense was Fitzpatrick kicked a 45-"It was nice [to tie the Diedrick said. "That is probably the too much, holding Washington to just
"We didn't play a

yard finld goal to giv<1 touchdown record] but it most disappointing factor of the whole 112 yards on the ground for the game. Notrn Damn a 31-3 half­complete football still should have been game." ''I'm pleased with the whole group timn advantagn. as the game. more, Quinn said. Washington tried to change things today," Irish defensive coordinator Irish ciPfPnsn gavn up just "Obviously, there were up in the second half, insetting Carl Kent Baer said. 2!) yards on thn ground in some times in the second Bonnell at quarterback after Paus fin­"I thought the wholn team as a unit
Tyrone Willingham 

tlw half'. half where I wasn't making ished the first half 10-of-26 for 130 played well together. I thought there 
But af'ter the first half, Irish coach throws." yards and no interceptions, but were a couple lapses where we Quinn and the Irish Quinn threw a 53-yard Bonnell improved the Huskies offense, weren't real sharp, but for the most offense slowed down. completion to Rhema running the ball as well. He finished part, heck, fll take it." 
The Notre Dame quarterback com­McKnight in the fourth quarter to set with 93 yards on 7 -of-18 passing with pleted just two of his next nine up a 17-yard touchdown run by Darius one interception, picked off by Dwight Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at attempts, disappointing for a team Walker, rounding out the scoring for Ellick. hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

player of the game 
Matt Shelton 

The wide receiver led the team with four receptions for 7 4 yards, includ­ing two touchdown catches. 
stat of the game 
4 
number oftouchdowns thrown by Brady Quinn during the game, tying a Notre Dame record. 

play of the game 
Fumble caused and recovered by Trevor Laws 
The turnover led to a Fasano touch­
down just one play later, giving the 
Irish a 2 I -o lead after one quarter. 
quote of the game 
"It's nice [to tie the touchdown record], but it still should have been more." 
Brady Quinn lriish quarterback 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 27, 2004 
report card 


8 8­A 8 8­8 A­8 A-
a team they should have had no trouble against. Now the
3.16 
test comes against Purdue. 
adding up the nun1bers 

number of yards D.J. Fitzpatrick averaged 4 6 o 
on his punts Saturday -a career high lor the former walk-on • 
52 
number of points the Irish have scored off turnovers so far this season 
number of first downs the Irish collected in the first quarter alone 
10 

1 
reception made by Quinn, lor 0 yards. Quinn caught his own batted ball late in the second 
quarter 

Average number of points the Irish 3 5 7 
have scored in their last six wins • 
79 
number of yards the Irish drove lor their second touchdown of the game -the 
team's longest offensive drive this season 

Tyrone Willingham's career record against 1 5 
Washington, after his win Saturday ­
11 
total turnovers the Irish have caused in their last two games (six against Michigan State 
and live against Washington) quarterbacks: Quinn tied the school rec­ord. but could have probably had a few 
more touchdowns in the second half. lie did a bettor job of finding guys open and moving through his progressions. 
running backs: Walker was basically 
shut down against a Washin1.,>ion 
delimse detorminod to stop the run. 
I~~~ did manage to score a Jato touch­
down. 
receivers: Sholton and Fasano oaeh had two touchdowns. and McKnight and Sarnardzija had several big catches as well. lloliday and Schmidt each picked up tlwir first reception of the year. 
offensive line: The offensive line did a good job allowing Quinn time to throw, but did a poor job at creating holes li1r the running game against a I Iusky dnfensn that was bad against the run. 
defensive line: The line gave up 112 yards rushing and didn't record a sack, but Laws forced and recovered a fumble that led to a key score late in the first quarter. 
linebackers: (;oolsby fini'ihed with seven 
tac~kles and Curry and Hoyte had six each. There wero very few broken tack­les. 
defensive backs: The secondary pnwentod the big play. nevor allowing a pass of more than 2H yards. Ndukwe had quite a game, rnmvoring a fumble and later lim~ing one as wdl. 
special teams: The Irish still look suspect on kick coverage, but Fitzpatrick had a new career average for punts and hit all his extra points and field goals. 
coaching: The Irish showed they can beat teams both p<L'ising and running, taking advantago ofWa'ihington's run-oriented deli~nse to put up big points right away. 
overall: Notre Dame easily beat 
"Who are these guys?" 
That had to be the primary question going through the minds of the crowd of 80,795 at Notre Dame Stadium Saturday after watching Brady Quinn make his third touch­down pass 'Of the first quar­ter -hitting tight end Anthony Fasano in the end zone as the time ran down on a first quarter that saw the Irish put up 147 yards passing. 
After Wash­ington's first two games against Fresno State and UCLA-when the Huskies rushing defense gave up approxi­mately the same amount of yards as was in their plane trip from Seattle to South Bend -nearly everyone in Notre Dame nation was expecting Darius Walker to have two rushing touchdowns by the timn NBC ran its first TV time­out. 
It was mesmerizing then, how Walker could be held to just 14 yards on eight carries and a dis­appointing 1.8 average yards per carry in that same first quarter Saturday. 
On tho other hand. after giving up 322 yards to UCLA's Maurice Drew just c11w week earlier. the lluskies probably weren't in the mood to watch a potential Drew II in Walker. 
Washington almost seemed to be daring the Irish to put the ball in 

Justin Schuver 
Associate Sports Editor 

the air, snuffing out nearly any play Notre Dame tried to run in its rushing attack. 
After all, Washington is a mem­ber of the Pac-10-the same con­ference in which a member of Stanford's band once tried to impede the progress of a California player -so it's not too much of a surprise that the Huskies would put nearly their entire team (including five mem­bers of the Tuiasosopo family, at one point) in the box. 
"They did basically what we expected them to do," Irish offen­sive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. "So we basically knew we'd have to 
loosen their defense "/ think we still rest of the Irish coach­up a little and start ing staff. They showed
have a lot more 
throwing the ball a Notre Dame is not a
potential."
bit." one-sided team on 
Quinn certainly offense-a fact that helped loosen that Brady Quinn could prove divid~nds defense, completing Irish quarterback further down the road 
passes to seven dif­ferent receivers, including even himself at one point. 
And even though the running game was being measured in inch­es. rather than yards, just the potential threat of the Irish rush­ing attack opened up holes in tho Notre Dame passing game. 
On Quinn's first touchdown pass to Matt Shelton, the sophomore quarterback ran a play-action fake and then threw in an addi­tional pump fake to find Shelton wide open in the corner of tlw end zone. 
"If they think it's a run and we can get that edge, it definitely helps," Shnlton said. "It's a tremendous boost for a team to 
have people out there making plays and helping out the running game and doing their jobs." 
For fans of a school built on the running game-Jerome Bettis was the "Bus," not the "Plane"­the potency of the Irish aerial attack might have seemed espe­cially surprising to the Notre Dame faithful. 
By the first half, Quinn had already tied the school record for most touchdowns thrown in a game by a Notre Dani.e quarter­back. 
Yet, even the most jaded of Notre Dame subway alumni has to 
give credit to Tyrone 
Willingham and the 
this season. 

Perhaps the most terrifying thing to Notre Dame's opponents is that the Irish few] their passing game can be even better. 
"I think we still have a lot more potential," Quinn said about tlw team's passing game. "I think we eemld have taken mom advantagl' of things in the second half." 
If Notre Danw can turn that potential into results, thnrP's no limit to how high this team ean soar. 
The opinions expressed in this column arc' those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obsenwr. 
Contact Justin ,\'chu/Jer al jschu­ver@nd.edu. 
Monday, September 27, 2004 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Linebackers leaders of the Irish 'D' 

By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
A chain hung around their collective necks as they huddled after the game, a symbol of the tight bond that unites this team and its defense. And after Saturday's win over Washington, that same chain could represent the leash that linebackers Mike Goolsby, Derek Curry and Brandon Iloyte latched on the lluskies. 
The trio sparked an Irish defense that allowed only three points and 112 rush­ing yards against a Washington team that tallied 31 points in their previous game against UClA 
Goolsby led Notre Dame with seven total tackles while Curry and Hoyte had six each. lloyte also forced a fumble and broke up a pass while Curry had orie fumble recovery. 
Their energetic physical style all sea­son has impressed coaches and raised the level of their teammates' play. Saturday, Curry knocked the helmet off Washington quarterback Carl Bonnell early in the third quarter and energized the rest of the defense. 
''I'm pleased with how they're playing," Irish defensive coordinator Kent Baer said. "They had some good hits today and I think they're playing really solid." 
Notre Dame defensive end Kyle Budinscak said the linebackers are one of the keys to the defense. 
"Those guys fly around and they're so emotional," he said. "Not only are they leaders. they get the job done. Knowing that those guys are behind [us], we're very confident." 
Even preseason All-American Justin Tuck is spurred on by the enthusiasm and hard-hitting play of the linebackers. 
"Just feeding off people like [Derek Curry!, who is the most energetic person I've ever seen on the field, is a great thing," he said. 
Curry, who devised the idea of placing a chain on the sidelines and in the locker room to symbolize how close the Irish defensive unit is, has embraced a leader­ship role this season. 
"We know that since we call the huddle the whole defense is going to be looking at us to see how we react," Curry said. 
"When you've got guys like [Goolsby] and Hoyte to be there with you it just makes everything easier." 
Though the trio may make most of the tackles, they don't take most of the cred­it. 
"To be honest, a lot of it really doesn't have to do with us as players," Curry 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
With Maurice Stovall injured, Matt Shelton earned his first career start at Notre Dame. and he made sure Washington knew he was there. 
The senior caught a career-high four passes, two for touchdowns en route to registering 74 yards. Ilalf of his eight receptions this snason have gone for touchdowns. 
"It's a really good feel­ing,'' Slwlton said. 
Slwlton's first touchdown came in the first quarter with 8:59 to play, putting tlw Irish ahead 7-0 after the 24-yard eompletion from Brady Quinn. 
The second eame with just 20 seconds remaining in the first quarter on a 27-yard pass from Quinn. 
"IQuinnl had a heek of a day I think," ShPiton said. 
CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer Irish linebacker Mike Goolsby makes a tackle on Washington's James Sims shortly after he receives the handoff from quarterback Casey PilUS. 
said. "Our defensive coaches do an excel­lent job with the game plan. All we have to do is go play." 
Goolsby credits the defensive line for putting him in the position to be success­ful. 
"As a linebacker, from my perspective, [the front four] gives us so many opportu­nities to make plays," Goolsby said. ''I'm grateful to have the guys that we've got in that rotation. They're doing a [heck] of a job." 
With Goolsby and Curry in their final year of eligibility, their bruising, ener­getic style of play might result from the realization that after this season they will never again don the blue and gold. 

"We talk a lot about this being our last go round and having fun while we're doing it and just playing as hard as we can for one another," Curry said. 
Goolsby echoed the words of his friend and teammate. 
"We've been through a lot together. [After the game] we were just talking about how much we love each other," he said. "That's why we play the game is to get wins like this. It was just great to enjoy it with these guys." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
Shelton delivers again for Irish 
"He had a great day. You can't speak enough about him. He puts it where I can catch it, and I make the most of it." 
Distributing the ball 
After Saturday's game, Brady Quinn has completed passes to 14 different receivers this season. Fullback Josh Schmidt and wide receiver/punt returner Carlyle Holiday both 
"[Quinn] puts it
caught passes Still unbeaten in the second where I can catch it, Washington quarter for has still never
and I make the most
the first time 
ofit."
this season. Quinn also completed a Matt Shelton pass to him­
Irish wide receiver
self after the ball was bat­ted by a Husky defensive lineman. 
Quinn's 266 yards passing was a season high for him in four games. Winless Willingham no more 
For the first time in his 
eareer, Irish coach Tyrone Willingham was victorious over Washington. 
"That feels pretty good," Willingham said. "But that's not important. What's important is that we are 3-1 right now." 
Before Saturday, Willingham was 0-5 against the Huskies, with all those losses earning during his 
tenure at 
Stanford. 
with the all l'ive. 
beaten Notre Dame. 
Saturday's eontest was the fifth matchup of the two teams, 
Irish victorious in 
With the win, the Irish have won six of their last eight games, dating bark to last year's finish with defeats of Navy, Brigham Young and Stanford, and 

the season-ending loss to Syracuse. 
Grant still not ready 
Senior Ryan Grant did not play Saturday, nursing a hamstring injury that has affeeted him all season. 
Willingham said after the game that it was too early to determine his status for next week. 
In Grant's place, freshman Darius Walker earned his first eareer start at running baek, the first Irish fresh­man to start at the position 
_sinee Autry Denson in 1996. 
Walker has scored a 
touchdown in eaeh game he 
has played in. 
Gameday captains 
Safety Quentin Burrell, offensive lineman Mark LeVoir, defensive lineman Greg Pauly and wide reeeiv­er Matt Shelton were Saturday's eaptains for the Irish. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
•

scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 

Washington  0  3  0  0  3  
Notre Dame  21  10  0  7  38  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 7, Washington 0 
Matt Shelton 24-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 8:59 remaining Drive: 5 plays, 45 yards, 1:37 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Washington 0 
0:20 remaining Drive: 11 plays, 79 yards, 3:40 elapsed 
Notre Dame 21, Washington 0 
Anthony Fasano 18-yard reception from Quinn with 0:00 remaining Drive: 1 play, 18 yards, 0:03 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 21, Washington 3 
Michael Braunstein 26-yard field goal with 
11:53 remaining Drive: 10 plays, 58 yards, 3:07 elapsed 
Notre Dame 28, Washington 3 
Fasano 15-yard reception from Quinn with 
9:14 remaining Drive: 7 plays, 65 yards, 2:39 elapsed 
Notre Dame 31, Washington 3 
D.J. Fitzpatrick 45-yard field goal with 0:34 
remaining Driv1~: 9 plays, 34 yards, 1:33 elapsed 
Third quarter No scoring. 
Fourtlh quarter 
Notre Dame 38, Washington 3 
Darius Walker 17-yard run with 12:19 remaining Driv11: 3 plays, 75 yards, 1:18 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards rushing yards passing yards 



time of possession 

46-146 rushes-yards 34-112 17-32..1 eomp-att-int 17-44-1 8-360 punts-yards 7-284 1-0 fumbles-lost 5-4 10·101 penalties-yards 6-55 22 first downs 20 
passing 

Quinn 17-32-1 Paus 10-26-0 Bonnell 7-18-1 
rushing 

Walker  23-81  James  11-33  
Wilson  5-20  Sims  4-30  
Powers-Neal  3-17  Rankin  5-25  
Jenkins  5-17  Bonnell  6-16  
Hoskins  4-16  Tuiasosopo  2·8  
receiving  

Shelton  4-74  Williams  5-72  
McKnight  3-68  Whithorne  2-36  
Samardzija  3-48  Toledo  2-27  
Fasano  3·41  Shackelford  2-21  
Holiday  2-21  James  2-15  
Schmidt  1-14  Johnson  1-17  

tackling 

Ellick  7  White  9  
Parish  7  Lobendahn  9  
Goolsby  7  Benjamin  9  
Hoyle  6  Wallace  7  
Curry  6  Hopoi  7  
Pauly  5  Hemphill  5  
Burrell  4  Goldson  5  
Tuck  3  Cunningham  4  
Richardson  3  . Milsten  3  

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 27, 2004 

HUSKIES HUMBLED 
The Irish offense showed it was just as capable with an air attack as with the 
running game, when Brady Quinn threw for four touchdowns in the first half. Matt Shelton oontimwd an impressive senior season, catching two passes of 24 and 27 yards, while tight end Anthony Fasano added an extra dimension to the Irish passihg game with two touchdowns of his own. An active Notre Dame defense forn~d tlw lluskies into five turnovers, while connecting with big hits throughout the game. Darius Walker added some late mmrf,ry with a 17-yard 
. 
touchdown run tO put the game away ill rourth quarter. 
LUv 



CHUY BENITEZ and CLAIRE KELLEYfThe Observer Top left, Matt Shelton celebrates a first-quarter touchdown with Marcus Freeman (No. 87). Top right, Anthony Fasano shows emotion after scoring his first touchdown of the game. Middle left, Rhema McKnight breaks away from a Washington defender during a long reception that led to a Darius Walker touchdown. Bottom left, Darius Walker breaks a tackle to score a touchdown in the fourth quarter. Bottom right, Dwight Ellick strips the ball away from a Washington back. 
---------------------... 
THE 0BSERVIR 

CENE
Monday, September 27, 2004 
page 13 
New Orleans m.eets Harlem· 
The Marcus Roberts Trio jazzes up the Center for Performing Arts 
By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 
You might think a performance featur­ing Wynton Marsalis' younger brother and his pianist of six years would sound like a recap of Wynton Marsalis' per­formance at the Leighton Concert Hall. 
This was not the case. The musicians of the Marcus Roberts Trio have their own ideas about what jazz should sound like, and they leave no doubt as to what those ideas are. 
The Trio played with a 
final solo at the end of the concert. 
Guerin's performance on bass was the biggest surprise of the show. The musi­cian has mastered a style called slap bass and provided his own percussion for an incredible bass solo. 
The rapport between the drummer and bassist was another highlight of the show. The two played off each other's rhythms in a way that only comes with virtuoso musicians who know each other's style very well. 
The Trio can 
undoubtedly play the 
swing and bebop 

kind of freedom and spon­"IfScott Joplin were sounds that casual jazz taneity Friday night that is fans are used to hear­
here, he'dprobably 

impossible with a group like ing. Their show titled Wynton Marsalis' Lincoln walk out, because "New Orleans Meets Center Jazz Orchestra. this is not what he Harlem" put a new Where every piece per­twist on the standards
wrote."

formed by the group of 15 by Fats Waller, musicians has be impeccably Thelonious Monk, Jelly rehearsed to bring the music Marcus Roberts Roll Morton, Duke 
together, the Trio has room to play off the audience's mood. More importantly, they have the room to listen and respond to the other musicians on stage. 
The Trio made the excellent but highly traditional set played by the LCJO sound almost tame. The thinner texture of a trio gave pianist Hoberts, drummer Jason Marsalis and bassist Roland Guerin each a chance to show their considerable tal­ents. 
Anyone who came to the concert to hear excellent jazz piano was not disap­pointed. Hoberts, who is famous for his elaborations on standard numbers, was exceptional in every piece. Solo rendi­tions of two pieces, including "Someone to Watch Over Me," gave the audience a chance to appreciate his solo talent. 
Jason Marsalis is deservedly renowned as one of the most innovative drummers playing today. He often opts for relatively simple beats despite having masterful control over the most complicated rhythms. Marsalis brought the audience to its feet when he finally let loose in his 
pianist Ellington and other jazz greats. "If Scott Joplin were here, he'd probably walk out, because this is not what he wrote," Roberts said before starting into the first standard from the first days of jazz. The piece was certainly not what Joplin wrote, nor did most of the pieces in the concert sound the way their composers originally conceived them. But if it is in the nature of jazz to evolve and to be improvisational, this may still be exactly what the composers featured in the show intended. This was not the concert for someone who wanted the same old jazz they've always heard. But judging by the stand­ing ovations after both sets and the encore, no one in the audience minded. And judging by the show Friday night, the musicians of the Marcus Roberts Trio will earn their own place in the evolving history of jazz. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
MATIHEW SOLARSK\fThe Observer 

Top right, Jason Marsalis earned a standing ovation after his final drum solo. Bottom right, bassist Roland Guerin plays a style called slap bass, providing his own percussion for his solo. Left, pianist Marcus Roberts performing the elaborate solos he Is famous for. 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------~--~-­
page 14 Monday, September 27, 2004 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
AFC 
Leftwich leads Jaguars to comeback victory 
Use this headline for smaller stories 
Associated Press NASHVILLE The Jacksonville Jaguars know how to make the most of their points. Fred Taylor ran for a 1-yard touchdown with 9 seconds left Sunday, and the Jaguars beat Tennessee 15-12 for their first victory ever at The Coliseum. Jacksonville is 3-0 despite scor­ing just 35 points this season. Of course, the Jaguars have allowed only 28. The Jaguars sacked Steve McNair three times and knocked him out in the fourth quarter with a bruised sternum. He watched the final minutes from the sideline as the Titans (1-2) lost their second straight. Byron Leftwich also threw for a touchdown as the Jaguars won their first three games for the first time since 1998 and stayed alone atop the AFC South. Tennessee has dominated this series since 1999, winning nine of the previous 11 games and each of the first five games played in The Coliseum. But the Jaguars said they didn't care about history with 36 players added since the end of the 2002 season. They held Tennessee and McNair, the 2003 co-MVP, to just 249 yards. Leftwich drove the Jaguars 59 yards in 13 plays, and Taylor capped it with a run to the right side. Taylor. one of only four Jaguars left from the 1999 sea­son in which Tennessee beat them three times, ran back to the sideline with the football in his arm. Leftwich hit Ernest Wilford for the 2-point conversion, but it wasn't needed. Leftwich was 14­of-20 for 124 yards, and Taylor 
ran 17 times for 81 yards. 
Backup Billy Volek warmed up, but the Titans had left him only 3 seconds after a botched play on the short kickoff return. Drew Bennett bounced a lateral back to Samari Rolle, but he was tackled. Volek's pass to Brown bounced off his back as time ran out. 
Brown snapped the Jaguars' NFL-best streak of 17 games without allowing a 100-yard rusher as he ran for 101 yards. 
But in the end the Titans couldn't stop an offense had generated only 20 points coming into this game. The Jaguars went three-and-out on four of their first six possessions. 
Texans 24, Chiefs 21 
The Houston Texans took advantage of the beleaguered Kansas City defense when it mattered most. 
Kris Brown kicked a 50-yard field goal with 2 seconds left for a victory Sunday, keeping the defending AFC West champions winless. The Chiefs are the fourth team since 1990 to start 0-3 after making the playoffs the previous season. 
The Texans put together three plays of 20 or more yards against the Chiefs in the fourth quarter. On the winning drive, Houston marched 42 yards in 
2:16 to set up the field goal. 
The victory came despite just 76 yards rushing against a team that gave up career days to opposing running backs in the first two games. 
Priest Holmes played despite a sprained ankle, running for 134 yards and becoming the Chiefs' leading career rusher. Holmes broke Christian Okoye's record of 4,897 yards midway through the third quarter, on a 7 -yard run up the middle. 
But his failure to score from the 1 in the third quarter kept Kansas City from taking a two-


AP 

Baltimore running back Jamal Lewis, right, runs for part of his 186 yard rushing total against the Cincinnati defense. 
touchdown lead and resulted in a defensive score one play later for the Texans (1-2). when Marcus Coleman returned an interception 102 yards to tie it at 14. 
Trent Green threw three touchdown passes for Kansas City, which is off to its first 0-3 start since 1981, when they opened 0-4. Last year's team went 13-3 in the regular season. 
Ravens 23, Bengals 9 

Jamal Lewis up the middle. Jamal Lewis around the end. And. with the game on the line, Jamal Lewis rumbling toward the end zone. 
After two subpar efforts, the Baltimore Ravens' game-break­er found his stride Sunday. He ran for 186 yards, including a 75-yard touchdown sprint that clinched a victory over the Cincinnati Bengals. 
Kyle Boller ran for a touch­down and threw for another, but had two costly fumbles that pre­vented the Ravens (2-1) from pulling away until Lewis unleashed on his fourth-quarter run. 
He took a handoff, changed direction twice, left two tacklers empty-handed and sped off, pulling so far ahead of the defense that everyone slowed once he reached the 20-yard line. 
Lewis repeatedly plowed through the Bengals (1-2), who always have trouble bringing him down. Lewis has topped 100 yards in all seven of his career games against Cincinnati, and had a 180-yard effort against the Bengals last December. 
The record-setting runner topped 2,000 yards last year but had found little room to run so far this season. He managed only 57 in a season-opening loss to Cleveland a team he torment­ed for 500 yards last season and Pittsburgh limited him to 62 yards a week later. 
The Bengals were much easier to crack. 
Lewis powered through defenders who couldn't get a grip. They clawed at his shoul­der pads and lunged at his thighs, then found themselves 
·flailing on the ground while Lewis went on his way. 
Palmer was 25-of-52 for 316 yards, but got sacked four times and threw three interceptions, two of them to safety Ed Reed near the end zone. 
Steelers 13, Dolphins 3 

The. weather was lousy and the Miami Dolphins' offense worse, while the Pittsburgh Steelers' defense was terrific. 
Unfazed by torrential rain in the first half from the remnants of Hurricane Jeanne. Pittsburgh forced four turnovers, made a key fourth-down stop and beat the hapless Dolphins Sunday night. 
The Dolphins, who have scored 23 points in three games, fell to 0-3 for the first time since 1969, the year before Don Shula became coach. 
Steelers rookie Ben Roethlisberger, making his first NFL start, had his first pass intercepted but otherwise avoid­ed costly mistakes despite the slippery ball and footing. He fin­ished 12-of-22 for 163 yards and one score. 
Hines Ward made a diving catch of a pass from Roethlisberger for a 7-yard touchdown. Jeff Reed hit field goals of 40 and 51 yards, the latter coming after the Steelers (2-1) stopped A.J. Feeley on a fourth-down quarterback sneak at midfield. 
Announced attendance was 72,225, but with Florida just beginning to recover from its latest hurricane, the actual crowd was about 30,000. Officials decided Saturday to push the starting time back 7 112 hours to avoid Hurricane Jeanne, and heavy rain fell at times. 
The showers left standing water in the baseball infield, which made footing especially treacherous on that part of the field. The start of the second half was delayed so the grounds crew could apply additional bags of dirt. Broncos 23, Chargers 13 
The play had little to do with the game plan, much more to do with stuff players figure out in the back yard. 
Knowing Ashley Lelie had a couple inches on the guy who was covering him, Jake Plummer threw the fourth-down pass high into the end zone. Lelie reached over the defender and made the catch for a momentum-shifting touchdown that led Denver to a victory over San Diego on Sunday. 

Lelie, who is really 6-fo6t-3, did just that, winning the one­on-one showdown with 6-0 cor­nerback Quentin Jammer for the 33-yard touchdown that gave Denver (2-1) a 10-point lead late in the third quarter. 
Just as importantly, it stifled the momentum San Diego (1-2) gained moments earlier when the Chargers recovered Quentin Griffin's third lost fumble of the season and converted it into a touchdown to cut Denver's lead to 13-10. 
The San Diego score turned an already slumbering lnvesco Field into a library, and it got even quieter when the Broncos stalled at midfield on their next drive. 
Plummer finished with 294 yards and two touchdowns, including a 16-yarder to Hod Smith to open the scoring. Lelie, largely considered a disappoint­ment his first two years in Denver, caught four passes for 67 yards and his first TD since Sept. 28, 2003, a span of 15 games. 
Speaking of droughts, San Diego fell to 1-9 in Denver since 1995. 
LaDanian Tomlinson ran for 60 yards and has yet to break the 100-yard mark in four games at Denver. Drew Brees threw for 121 yards, and never got into the flow. In fact, he had more yards receiving (38) than passing (16) at halftime, cour­tesy of a first-quarter reception from Tomlinson on a trick play that resulted not in a touch­down, but a field goal. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 F.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AJ classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
PURDUE TICKET PLEASE Help my newlywed husband see his first ND game STUDENT 
SECTION GA OK Kate 702-249· 7974 
WANTED: MALE actors for the SMC production OUR TOWN. For info call 284-4640. 
FOR RENT 
Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential (Jamison) condo 10/26/04-5105 call Mary Anne Benedict 607-723-7363 
ND Football housing. Walk to game. 574·315-3215. 
TICKETS 
BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273­3911 
For Sale: ND football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. 
For Sale: ND footballtix. Good prices. 232-0964. 
Wanted: ND football tix. Top $$$ 251-1570. 

ND ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 
JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY ND FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 
674-6593. 
PERSONAL 

Spring Break 2005 with STS, AmeriGas #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus 
reps. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 1 ·800·648·4849 
www.ststravel.com. 

SPRING BREAK with BIANCHI­ROSSI TOURS! The BEST Spring Break Under the Sun! 
AcapulCO·Vallarta-Mazatlan-Cancun & Cabo. Book by Oct 31=FREE MEALS & FREE DRINKS! Orgranize a group·GO FREE! 800·875·4525 or www.bianchi-rossi.com 
Sprir.g Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $4591 Panama City & Daytona 
$159! www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1·800·678-6386 Aren't you happy that you're out of the dungeon. xoxo 
Megs 
LOTPR One ring to rule him all 
Need some luck for Atennis match later this week 

Monday, September 27, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
PGA 
Singh breaks PGA money record 
way I'm playing right now." 

Associated Press 
Singh led from start to fin­

FARMINGTON, Pa. -Vijay ish for his fifth victory in six Singh is running out of firsts tournaments, the best such to take away from Tiger streak since Woods won six in Woods. a row to end 1999 and start 
Singh broke the PGA Tour 2000. Singh has won seven single-year money record times in his last 16 events. Woods set while winning In only three weeks, Singh three majors in 2000, holding has ended Woods' five years­off a fast-finishing Stewart plus run as the world's No. 1­Cink to win the 84 Lumber ranked golfer and taken away Classic by one shot Sunday for one of Woods' lines in the his third consecutive victory. PGA record book. Maybe 
Singh's eighth champi­that's why Woods pulled out 
onship this year pushed his of the 84 Lumber after unex­earnings to $9,455,566 in 26 pectedly committing last week events, surpassing the he didn't want to see Singh $9,188,321 Woods made knock him out of yet another while winning nine times in lead. 20 events in 2000. With Singh "It's ridiculous the way he's 
expecting to play four more playing right now," said Chris times, he could become the DiMarco, who tied for third first to win $10 million in one with Pat Perez and Zach year. Johnson. 
''I'm going to try," Singh "He's going nuts," an envi­said. "It's a run I hope never ous John Daly said. ends. I'm enjoying it so much Still, Singh willingly con­and I feel like every time I cedes this: As good as 2004 enter a tournament, I should has been to him, it's not com­win it. I'm really proud of the parable to Woods' 2000 because Woods won the U.S. Open, British Open and PGA. Singh's only major win came at the PGA. . 
"Tiger won three majors, so I don't really look at it that way," Singh said. ''I'm just trying to enjoy this. I don't think I can play any better than I am right now." 
Singh's three-under 69, his third round in the 60s in four days, left him at 15-under 
273. Cink went 67-65 over the final two rounds to finish at 14-under 274 despite trailing by 10 strokes after the second round. 
Cink, five off the lead when the day started, had five straight birdies from No. 7 through No. 11 to make a move, but a bogey on the par­4 14th dropped him three back. Singh then held on despite a bogey on the par-4 18th and Cink birdies on No. 17 and 18. 
"I want to win, I want to play well and it's a good habit [to get into]." Singh said. 

LPGA 
Kim beats Webb for first LPGAl title win 
home. I'm a show off. I wanted 
to be able to show off in front 
AUBURN, Calif. -Christina of my friends." Kim's supporters helped propel Kim, who was the first-round her to her first LPGA victory. leader with a 64, made five 
Kim made a birdies on the charge on the back side in fin­back nine Sunday, ishing with an 18­
Associated Press 
"!wanted to be
shooting a 6-under 266 at The 
under 65 at the able to show offin Ridge Golf Club, Longs Drugs front ofmy located 30 miles Challenge for a east of
friends.,
one-shot victory Sacramento. over Karrie Webb had a Webb. Christina Kim chance to force a 
With her father, LPGA golfer playoff on the 
Man, serving as her caddie, and family and friends from San Jose in the gallery, Kim never let the pressure of going after her first tour win bother her. 
"Hearing everyone scream, telling you that you can do it, that's so heartwarming," the 20-year-old Kim said. "I have always wanted to win close to 
The Olin Distinguished Lecture Series 
The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute ·Presents 
d Obligation" 
Professor of Law and of Philosophy 
ty Law School 
m. N tre Dame Law School Courtroom 
final hole, but 

missed a 7 -foot birdie attempt. Webb shot a 64 Sunday that included two birdies on the front side and an eagle to move into contention. She shared the lead until Kim's birdie on the 17th. 
On the 18th, Kim's birdie putt rolled left of the hole. But Webb then missed her birdie attempt and had to settle for second place. 
''I'm disappointed I didn't make that putt on 18, but I can't be disappointed in the way I played all week," Webb said. 
After making her two-foot putt for par to clinch the win, Kim went to her knees, began to cry and eventually sought out her dad for a hug. 
"Watching that putt [of Webb's] was agonizing," Kim said. "It seemed to roll so slow­ly. I thought it was in, then it sped up and went past the hole. I stood dumfounded. It was the longest two-footer [for the win] I ever had to make." 
Two-time Longs Drugs win­ner Juli Inkster had three birdies on the front side and led by two shots heading to No. 
10. She played the back nine even and finished with a 68, two shots behind Kim. 
"She [Kim] must have played well today. I saw all her putts," said Inkster, who played in the final group behind Kim and Webb. "All the holes were right in front of us, you could see what they were doing all day." 
Third-round leader Leta Lindley, who entered the final round a shot ahead in search of her first· LPGA victory, dropped off the leader board following a double bogey at No. 11 and shot a 76. 
The best round of the day belonged to Anna Acker­Macosko, who shot an 11­under 60 and made a run at Annika Sorenstam's tour record of 59. 
It was the second round of 60 this year. Jung Yeon Lee had a 60 on the par-70 course in Tucson, Ariz., during the first tournament of the season. 
Acker-Macosko walked to the 18th green with a chance for one more birdie, which would have given her a share of the record. The downhill 30-foot putt broke right of the hole and she made a short putt for par. She finished at 13-under 271. 
"I wasn't thinking about win­ning the tournament, I was thinking about the 59," said Acker-Macosko, who also missed a 23-foot birdie putt on 
17. "It's probably the closest I'll ever come to tying one of Annika's records. It's a once­in-a-lifetime round." 
Hee-Won Han (65) finished fourth and Jeong Jang (62) tied Acker-Macosko for fifth place. 
--------------------------------~~--~ -------­
page 16 Monday, September 27, 2004
The Observer+ SPORTS 
NFC 

Cardinals contain Vick, still lose to Falcons 
Vikings beat Bears in divisional battle 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Michael Vick wasn't much help. The Atlanta Falcons had to rely on their defense and Arizona's inept offense to get to 3-0 for the first time since 1986. 
The Falcons forced Arizona quarterback Josh McCown into three fumbles and managed to win with a pair of field goals by Jay Feely, beating the winless Cardinals 6-3 in a downright ugly game Sunday. 
How ugly? There were nine fumbles (seven resulting in turnovers), five calls that had to be reviewed by the referee (two were overturned) and not one touchdown despite countless opportunities by both teams. The Cardinals (0-3) lost three fumbles inside the Falcons 20. 
Atlanta did its best to give the game away in the fourth quar­ter. Vick threw a pass that was intercepted by Adrian Wilson and returned to the Falcons 18, but the Cardinals had to settle for Neil Rackers' 30-yard field goal with 9:24 remaining. 
Warrick Dunn, who rushed for 117 yards, fumbled at the Atlanta 19 with 3:19 remaining, giving the Cardinals a chance to at least kick a tying field goal. Of course, they promptly gave the ball right back. 
On a reverse, receiver Karl Williams got to the 7 but the ball was jarred loose by Chris Draft. Bryan Scott recovered for the Falcons with 2:26 remaining. 
Finally, Vick broke loose. He ran for 58 yards on a bootleg the longest carry of his career to seal the victory. The Falcons are 3-0 for only the third time in their 39-year history. 
Vick struggled the rest of the game, one week after account­ing for 288 yards rushing and passing in a victory over St. Louis. fie was sacked five times, turned the ball over three times and went just 1 0-of-20 for 115 yards. 
The Cardinals couldn't take advantage. Rod Coleman forced a couple of fumbles and Brady Smith finished ofT McCown with a blindside hit that led to anoth­er turnover in the fourth quar­ter. Patrick Kerney had a career­high three sacks for the Falcons, who had six sacks overall. 
McCown went 20-of-26 for 198 yards, but was replaced by Shaun King after the third fum­ble. The backup quarterback couldn't rally the Cardinals, who have managed just 25 points and two touchdowns in their first three games. 
VIkings 27, Bears 22 
As its injury list grew longer, Minnesota's high-powered offense was consistently limited to low-risk plays by Chicago's cover-2 defense. 
But the Vikings passed this patience test against the similar­ly banged-up Bears. 
Daunte Culpepper threw two touchdown passes to Randy Moss and ran for another score, helping Minnesota hold off Chicago on Sunday. 
"We just take whatever the defense gives us," said Onterrio Smith, who rushed for 94 yards and caught six short passes for 104 yards out of the backfield. 
Minnesota (2-1) has a week off to heal, but Chicago (1-2) must travel to unbeaten Philadelphia next week with several ailing starters. 
Quarterback Rex Grossman scored on a 6-yard scramble at the 2-minute warning, but he sprained his right knee on the play and left the stadium wear­ing a brace and using a crutch. He went 21-for-31 for 248 yards. 
Chicago got the ball back with 1:36left at its 10, but backup QB Jonathan Quinn was sacked by Kevin Williams on fourth down. 
"We have faith in him and have confidence in him," coach Lovie Smith said. 
Culpepper completed 19 of 30 passes for 360 yards, 119 of them to Moss. The Vikings never found a rhythm, but they made enough long gains to control a game otherwise bogged down by injuries, penalties, turnovers, more injuries and more penal­ties. 
Saints 28, Rams 25 
Even without Deuce McAllister, the New Orleans Saints' running game is in good hands. 
Perturbed after being described as a journeyman, fill­in Aaron Stecker responded with his first career 100-yard day in the Saints' overtime victory over the St. Louis Rams on Sunday. 
Stecker's performance added balance for the Saints, who also got big games from Aaron Brooks, kicker John Carney and defensive end Charles Grant, who had three of his team's five sacks. 
Stecker, who entered the game with 443 yards in four-plus sea­sons, was supposed to split time with Ki-Jana Carter, and the Saints figured to struggle on the ground with McAllister sidelined by a high ankle sprain. Stecker ended up with 106 yards on 19 carries, including a 42-yard touchdown run. 
"Hey, I'm a running back," Stecker said. "It's not like they pulled me out of the front office and said 'Deuce is out, do you know how to play some running back?' 
"I believe in myself and my teammates had no doubt in me." 
Brooks calmly directed the winning drive, Carney kicked five field goals and Grant led a strong defensive effort that com­bined to end the Rams' 15-game regular-season home winning streak. The Saints have never been intimidated by the Rams' home, winning in St. Louis in 2000 and '01, when both teams were in the NFC West. 


New Orleans (2-1) somehow forced overtime after the Rams (1-2) took the lead on Marc Bulger's 19-yard scramble with 28 seconds to go. Then they stuffed the Rams' once high­powered offense in overtime and drove to Carney's clinching 31­yarder with 7:59 left in over­time. 
The Rams won the toss in overtime, and they converted a somewhat ill-advised fourth­and-1 play from their 41 to keep the drive alive. Then they promptly lost momentum, punt­ed and never got the ball back. 
The Rams (1-2), who won the NFC West last year, have yet to force a turnover. Last year, they lost two of the first three on the road before recovering to go 12­4. 
Brooks was 24-for-41 for 316 yards and a touchdown. More important, he was 3-for-4 for 42 yards on the winning drive, and his 12-yard bootleg run to the St. Louis 13 set up Carney's field goal. 
Eagles 30, Lions 13 

After falling a game short of the Super Bowl the past three years, the Philadelphia Eagles seem to have the swagger and talent they've been missing. 
Donovan McNabb threw for 356 yards and two touchdowns and ran for a score, Terrell Owens caught six passes for 107 yards and a TO and Jevon Kearse had three sacks to lead Philadelphia to a win over the Detroit Lions. 
In a game between unbeatens, the Eagles made a resounding statement. 
And with a championship-or­bust mentality, Philadelphia is not satisfied with its first 3-0 start since 1993. 
"We haven't played our best and that's exciting," McNabb said. 
Rookie receiver Roy Williams had nine receptions for 135 yards and two TDs for the sec­ond straight week for the Lions, who had a chance to go 3-0 for the first time since 1980. 
Other than games to avoid or end futility records, the Lions played in their biggest matchup since the 2000 finale, when they lost to Chicago and fell to 9-7 and out of the playoffs. That set­back led to the hiring of presi­dent and general manager Matt Millen and coach Marty Mornhinweg, now Philadelphia's 
t:Hk<d~-f'? 
-~ 
nv~n~J ~-:;~~;:_:-;g.n:.~~ k·-~-=-~~ 'S~:-~!~H ~~<::·=-::·:~ ~:::-:-: ~~ ~;:.-:.~:::;~~ {~!:: ~·:-::;·:=-~­


assistant head coach. It was the first time San 
"Now our guys can see what a Francisco failed to score since a championship-caliber team is 7-0 loss to Atlanta at Candlestick like," Lions coach Steve Mariucci Park on Oct. 9, 1977, breaking said. "We've got a ways to go." its league record spanning 420 
Harrington was 21-of-38 for regular season and 36 playoff 199 yards with two TDs. games. Seahawks 34, 49ers 0 Matt Hasselbeck threw for 254 
Rashad Moore, Ken Lucas and yards with two touchdowns, Ken Hamlin weren't even born Shaun Alexander scored three the last time the San Francisco TDs and Seattle's defense was 49ers failed to score. magnificent. 
Cedric Woodard and Chike Seattle (3-0). which has Okeafor were in diapers. allowed only 13 points in its first 
Those playmakers and other three games, simply shut down stars from the Seattle defense the 49ers (0-3). Second-year it's a long list ended San quarterback Ken Dorsey was Francisco's NFL record streak of 19-of-32 for 153 yards with two scoring in 420 regular season as interceptions and San Francisw the Seahawks won on Sunday. had only 48 yards rushing. 
TI IE GEORGE WASI IINGTON UNIVERSITY 
I~ 

,,, RING TERM . DC 
·•. '''··'IN WASHINGTON 
Expand your education and complement your coursework 
with this undergraduate academic program where you 
earn credits toward your degree while immersing yourself 
in the culture, history, politics and pace of Washington, DC. 
Areas of concentration include: 
• National Security and Foreign Policy 
• How the Media Covers Washington ·Military Planning and National Politics 
january-May 2005 
www.gwu.ed u/ ""dcspri ng 
dcspring@gwu.edu • 202.242.6802 
The t;eorge Was~mgton Umvers~ty IS an equal opporcumr.y/afftrmauve acuon Jn5tltutJOn. 
Monday, September 27, 2004 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

you have priorities. let them guide you as you build your career. define what's important to you and see what's important to others. 
P'NC. corn/rnypr!Orl':!?-)c) 



OUND THE NATION 
page 18 Monday, September 27, 2004 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
team 
1 usc (46} 2 Oklahoma (18) 3 Georgia {t) 4 Miami 5 T8X3$ 6 West Vtrglna 
7. . . Ohio Slate 8 Florida Stale 9 Auburn 10 California 11 Tennessee 12 Virginia 
13 lSU 
14 Utah 15 Purdue 16 · Florida 11 Fresno Stale 18 Minnesota 19 Michigan 20 WI$Consln 21 Arizona State 22 Louisville 23 Boise State 24 Maryland 25 Oklahoma State 

Associated Press "It was fun," USC quarter­Oct. 9. Cal was the last team field goal by BYU to extend back Matt Leinart said. "We to beat the Trojans, winning its winning streak to 15 
Southern California's hold haven't had too many close 34-31 in triple overtime last games, fell two spots. on No. 1 loosened after the games." season. The USA Today/ESPN Trojans struggled against The Trojans' defense came USC's close call was part coaches poll had the same 
Stanford. alive in the second half, of another perfect weekend top five teams as the AP. 
USC received 46 first-place shutting out the Cardinal for ranked teams. The 19-0 The perfect weekend for votes in The Associated and allowing just 36 yards. performance 17-0 in poll members was the sec­Press poll released Sunday, Meanwhile, Leinart and tail­Saturday's games left the ond this season. 
eight fewer than last week. backs Reggie Bush and Top 25 virtually unchanged. On Sept. 4, the first full 
The team that benefited LenDale White made key Georgia was No. 3 fol­day of games this season. most from Southern plays offensively to secure lowed by Miami, Texas, West ranked teams also went 17­California's come-from­the Trojans' 13th straight Virginia and Ohio State. No. 0. Before this season, the behind 31-28 victory on victory. 8 Auburn and No. 9 Florida last time teams in the poll Saturday was idle "I know people wonder State flip-flopped the teams had a perfect record on a Oklahoma. The second­how you have games like are separated by only 19 day in which 10 or more ranked Sooners got 18 first­this," Trojans coach Pete points and California and played was Aug. 31, 1996. place votes and narrowed Carroll said. "It ain't going to Tennessee tied for No. 10 Don't plan on another per­the gap between them and be easy. It's hard to do this with 1,033 points each. fect weekend from ranked the Trojans to 35 points week after week." No teams fell out -of the teams this season. (1,605-1,570). And it's going to get hard­rankings or moved more Conference play has begun 
USC trailed 28-17 at the er for the Trojans. than two spots in either and championship con­half to Stanford, but never USC is off next week direction. No. 23 Boise State, tenders will start going head panicked. before hosting California on which needed a late missed to head more frequently. 
W~Wl VIrginia 
Rutgers 
&lion Halt 
IN BRIEF
Pittsburgh Georgetown 

IU settfes out of coprt with a Friday story. "The cost of litigat­Chris Compton, an attorney for 
Syracuse 

Knights former assistant ing would have been more." SCA, told The Associated Press on
Providence 

BLOOMINGTON Indiana In addition to the $35,000, Thursday, "We've requested [drug] University has agreed to pay Frapwell said, the Felling case has test results to disprove the allega­$35,000 to former basketball assis­cost the university $107,470 in tions -clean test results that tant Ron Felling, who was fired by attorney fees and costs. should be easily attainable." then-coach Bob Knight after a post­Armstrong accused of Washington set to get first game confrontation in 1999. doping, pnze money kept MLB team in over 30 years 
Felling also sued Knight, who set­DALLAS -Lance Armstrong's WASHINGTON -As far as tled with him two years ago by pay­management agency said it provid­Washington is concerned, the nego­
around the dial 
ing him $25,000 and admitting that ed clean drug test results more than tiations with Major League Baseball 
he had shoved Felling in anger after a month ago to a company with­are essentially done. Now it's a mat­he overheard a telephone conversa­holding a $5 million bonus owed ter of waiting for a 33-year drought tion in which Felling criticized his Armstrong for winning a record to end.
NFL 

coaching and behavior. sixth straight Tour de France. Months of talks -including an 11 
Cowboys at Redskins 8 p.m., ABC Knight, now the coach at Texas "Lance has made it unambiguous­1/2-hour session last week and Tech, was fired by Indiana's then­ly clear that he does not use, nor another round that lasted until mid­MLB president Myles Brand in 2000 for has he ever used, performance­night Wednesday -have produced 
violating a zero-tolerance behavior enhancing drugs," said a statement a 30-page document that wou~d
White Sox at Tigers 6:05p.m., FSN 

policy adopted by the university. issued Friday night by Capital conditionally award the Montreal
Brewers at Diamondbacks 8:35 p.m., FSN 
IU counsel Dorothy Frapwell said Sports and Entertainment, the Expos to the nation's capital. 
it made sense for the university to Austin, Texas-based agency that "I would say that it is virtuallyWNBA settle Felling's suit for wrongful ter­manages Armstrong's U.S. Postal completed without any major deal Lynx at Storm 8:30 p.m., ESPN2 mination out of court rather than go Cycling Team. "The baseless and points outstanding," Bill Hall, chair­to trial. .mean-spirited doping allegations man of the D.C. Sports and "I think it was the right thing to against Lance are not supported by Entertainment Commission's base­
do " she told The Herald-Times for any facts." ball committee, said Friday.
,._ 
~­



---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------------­
Monday, September 27, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Red Sox hand Brown, Yankees another rout 
Angels close within one game ofOakland 
Associated Press BOSTON --The Red Sox ended their home season in typical fashion with another brilliant performance by Curt Schilling and another bench-clearing con­frontation with the Yankees. Schilling (21-6) allowed one hit in seven innings Sunday when Boston beat New York 11-4 and knocked Kevin Brown out in the first inning of his return from a broken hand. The Red Sox (93-62) won 11 of 19 from the Yankees (97 -59) to take the season series for the first time in five years and cut 
New York's AL East lead to 3 1/2 games with one week to play. 
"We probably play them too much," Boston's Johnny Damon said with a smile. "There's too much anxiety brewing." 
In the top· of the eighth, Boston's Pedro Astacio was eject­ed for throwing behind Kenny Lofton and both teams were warned by plate umpire Jim Wolf. 
In the bottom half, New York pitcher Brad Halsey and manag­er Joe Torre were ejected after Halsey threw a pitch high and tight to Dave Roberts, causing the benches and bullpens to clear. Players were kept apart. 
On July 24, also in Fenway Park, the teams fought after Alex Rodriguez was hit by a pitch by Bronson Arroyo and was shoved in the face by catcher Jason Varitek. 
Schilling, who leads the major leagues in wins, is 12-1 at Fenway this season, the first since Boston acquired him from Arizona. He's won eight straight decisions for the f1rst time in his major league career. 
Boston scored four runs in the first off Brown (10-5), who got just two outs, then made it 7-0 in the second against Esteban Loaiza, who allow~d seven runs in 4 2-3 innings. 
After losing Friday's opener, Boston won the last two games. A week earlier, the Red Sox won on Friday in New York then lost the next two by 10 runs each. 
The Red Sox have seven games 

TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive {the building: attached to the pool·by the turtles) 574-272..8124 www.turtlereeknd.cnm info{iiturtlecrt.oeknd..emn 

NO\V PRE-LEASING FOR 2005-2006! 
Townhomes from $275 a month ·erson! 
Robert W. Baird & Co. Investment Banking 
invites you to an informal luncheon to discuss potential career opportunities 
Wednesday, September 29, 2004 ]1:30am -1:30pm at Reekers Hospitality Room 
**Accepting resumes until October 1, 2004 on Go/RISH** 
FORTUNE. 
100 BEST 
Baird/
COMPANIESg
TO WORK FOR "" 

left and likely will wind up with the AL wild-card berth they lead Anaheim by six games. They could meet the Yankees for the second straight year in the AL championship series. 
Angels 6, A's 2 
The Angels know how to bounce back. 
John Lackey fell behind early before Anaheim rallied behind three RBis from Troy Glaus to beat Oakland 6-2 Sunday to close within one game of the AL West­leading Athletics with a week to play. 
"We got to keep pushing," Lackey said. "We got to be at our best these next couple of games." 
After losing Friday's series opener, the Angels won two straight and head to Texas for a four-game series starting Monday before closing with three games at Oakland. The 1\s, who hold a two-game lead over the Rangers, host Seattle for four games starting Monday. 
"It's going to be an interesting finish," Oakland manager Ken Macha said. 
Mark Mulder (17 -7) was knocked out in the fourth inning, his shortest outing this season. Oakland, which has had sole pos­session of the division lead since Aug. 6, dropped to 10-14 in September. 
Lackey (14-12) gave up two runs and four hits in seven innings, improving to 10-4 since June 16 and evening the season series at eight apiece. 
Mariners 9, Rangers 0 
The Texas Rangers might not be in a must-win situation yet, but they're hurting their playoff chances with each loss. 
Texas managed just three hits Sunday off rookies Cha Seung Baek and Scott Atchison in a loss to the last-place Seaftle Mariners. 
"Any loss at this point is a tough loss," shortstop Michael Young said. "We realize this loss is not the end of the season, but it does make it tougher on us." 
The Rangers started their final homestand with a three-game sweep of AL West-leading Oakland, against the starting trio of Mark Mulder, Barry Zito and Tim Hudson. They got within two games, but missed out on a chance to get closer by losing two of three to Seattle. 
The Rangers remained two back after the Athletics lost 6-2 Sunday nigbt at Anaheim. The Angels, who are one game out of first, begin a four-game series in Texas on Monday. 
A surprise contender after four straight last-place finishes, the Rangers end the regular season next weekend at Seattle. 
"What's shorter than a sprint? A dash. How about a leap?" manager Buck Showalter said. "There is still an opportunity for us ifwe keep grinding." 
Ichiro Suzuki moved within six 
of the season hits record, going 
1-for-4 with an intentional walk. 
His sixth-inning single raised his 
total to 251 with seven games 
remaining to reach the record of 
257, set by George Sisler in 1920. 
Baek (2-4) allowed just three 
hits in eight innings, and 
Atchison pitched a perfect ninth 
to complete Seattle's seventh 
shutout of the season. 
The Mariners are trying to 
avoid 100 losses just three years 
after winning 116. 
White Sox 5, Royals 1 
Jon Garland's impressive per­formance against Kansas City did little to change his opinion of his overall performance this year. 
Garland pitched into the ninth inning, and Wilson Valdez hit his first career homer to lead the Chicago White Sox to a victory over the Kansas City Royals on Sunday. 
Garland (11-11) came within two outs of his second complete game of the season, and first since June 20 at Montreal. It was his first victory since Sept. 3 against Seattle. 
Brian Anderson (5-12) allowed five runs on nine hits for the Royals, who lost for the 98th time this season the second-most loss­es in franchise history. Only the 2002 team (62-100) lost more. 
Twins 6, Indians 2 
Omar Vizquel got a warm send -off in possibly his final home game for Cleveland, and the Minnesota Twins reached 90 wins for the third straight season with a victory over the Indians on Sunday. 
Vizquel, the Indians' wildly popular shortstop, went 1-for-4 in the team's home finale per­haps his last wearing Cleveland's white jersey. 
Carlos Silva (14-8) allowed one run and eight hits in seven innings, improving to 4-0 in his last eight starts. Jacque Jones had two RBis to help the playoff­bound Twins win for just the sec­ond time in six games. 
The AL Central champions (90­

. 66) are still trying to clinch home-field advantage in the f1rst round. 
Vizquel, a three-time All-Star and nine-time Gold Glove winner, is expected to become a free agent in November. He has a mutual $5 option for next season that the Indians are not likely to pick up. 
The 37-year-old Vizquel wants to stay in Cleveland and said before the game that he's willing to accept a one-year deal to remain and retire with the Indians. 
Playing in his 747th game at Jacobs Field, Vizquel received a loud ovation each time he came up. He led off the sixth inning with a single but was forced on a double play. 
Before stepping into the bat­ter's box in the eighth for his last at-bat, Vizquel waved to the crowd and then took a deep breath before digging in. 
He then grounded out to sec­ond, but not before he tried to beat the throw with a headfirst dive into first base, the type of play that has typified his stellar career. 
Orioles 5, Tigers 0 
Rodrigo Lopez put an appropri­ate finish on the Baltimore Orioles' season-long domination of the Detroit Tigers. 
Lopez pitched a three-hitter for his second career shutout, and the Orioles completed their first season sweep of Detroit with a victory Sunday. 
Miguel Tejada homered and drove in three runs, and B.J. Surhoff also connected for the Orioles, who went 6-0 against the Tigers in 2004 the f1rst time in the 51 years that Baltimore has been in the AL that the Orioles· went unbeaten against Detroit. 
''That's pretty impressive, no matter who you play," Baltimore 
-

manager Lee Mazzilli said. 
Baltimore outscored the Tigers 22-12 during a three-game sweep in Detroit in May, then beat the Tigers by a combined 15-5 margin in this weekend's sweep. 
Monday, September 27, 2004 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Three team wild card race grows even closer 

Wood (8-8). 3-for-4 with and scored twice,

Cubs lose, stay on 
Los Angeles 7, San Francisco 4 and Morgan Ensberg went 4-for­

top of Astros, Giants Eric Gagne zipped one last 5 with two runs scored as pitch past Deivi Cruz, then Houston outslugged the screamed for joy while San Milwaukee Brewers on Sunday.
Associated Press 
Francisco's fans groaned. Lance Berkman also homered 

NEW YORK -Moises Alou Gagne knew his two innings of for the Astros, who closed within measured his words. trying to work had resulted in more than 1 1/2 games of Chicago in the NL control his anger. Eventually, the just another save. The feared wild-card race. San Francisco is frustration spilled over and the closer brought order to another also ahead of Houston, which Cubs' slugger let loose. crazy game between rivals and returns home to play St. Louis 
Alou was called out on strikes he put Los Angeles firmly in con­three times beginning Monday
twice by plate umpire Bill Miller 
trol of the NL West race with a night and Colorado three times during a 3-2 loss Sunday to the victory over the Giants on during the final week of the sea­
lowly New York MeLc;, preventing 
Sunday. son. 

Chicago from increasing its lead Alex Cora homered and drove Tim Redding (5-7), the third of in the NL wild-card race. in two runs for the second eight Astros pitchers, was credit­AI Leiter struck out Alou with straight day, and the Dodgers ed with the win after throwing a the bases loaded to end the fifth. moved 2 1/2 games ahead of the 1-2-3 fourth inning. It was the Alou glared at the umpire, Giants by taking two of three fourth time in club history that dropped his helmet at the plate weekend games in San Francisco. the Astros used eight pitchers in and walked away. Barry Bonds' 703rd homer a nine-inning game. Maybe the Cubs should be gave the Giants a third-inning St. Louis 9, Colorado 3 more concerned about their lead, but Gagne and Cora were Success in hitting is mostlyoffense. They managed only among several heroes for the determined by average, homers seven runs in 30 innings over the Dodgers, who manufactured and HB!s. Pitching, to a largeweekend, losing two of three more than enough runs to win it. degree, is about wins. And the St. 
games to the fourth-place Mets. 
"We're in great shape right Louis Cardinals have a lot of. 

That could be costly. Chicago is now," said Gagne, who got six them. only a half-game in front of San outs for his 45th save in 47 Albert Pujols hit his 46th homer Francisco in the wild-card chase, chances. "We've still got to win to move within one of the major son was followed by a dismal with Houston and San Diego not some games. but it looks good." league lead and Jason Marquis defense of its second World Series far behind. The Giants lost 7-4 to The Dodgers control their des­pitched seven strong innings to title, and the Marlins were elimi­Los Angeles. tiny entering their final seven give St. Louis its fourth 15-game nated from postseason contention 
The fifth-inning strikeout of home games of the season four winner, helping the Cardinals win Sunday with loss to the Atlanta Alou was the turning point for against Colorado, and the last their filth straight with a victory Braves. 
Leiter (10-8), who pitched two-hit 
three against San Francisco. over the Colorado Rockies on Last. year, the Marlins won the ball for six innings to earn his Houston 11, Milwaukee 7 Sunday. NL wild card at 91-71 and went first win in six weeks. Houston's backups are doing all The right-hander allowed three on to upset the New York 
The Mets gave him an early they can to propel the Astros into runs two earned and six in seven Yankees in the World Series. cushion, scoring three runs in the the playoffs. innings against the Rockies, join­Sunday's loss dropped Florida to first by capitalizing on a wild Haul Chavez drove in a career­ing Jeff Suppan (16). Chris 79-76 with seven games to go not stretch by Chicago starter Kerry high five runs, Jason Lane went Carpenter (15) and Matt Morris enough to catch the wild-card 
(15) to give St. Louis four 15-leading Chicago Cubs (87-68). 
game winners for the first time in Braves starter John Thomson 60 years. (14-8) allowed one and four hits 111awe we gonna playbide 
Dade Looks UkeA Lady 

Marquis (15-6) threw his first and one run in seven innings. tlaa tdsta• agaba?" 
pitch of the game to the backstop, San Diego 7, Arizona 1 but didn't allow a baserunner While the rest of his teammates until Aaron Miles reached on were running on adrenaline, shortstop Hector Luna's throwing slugger Phil Nevin needed four
HAPPY215T 

error at shortstop to lead ofT the bags of IV fluid to get through a fourth inning. Todd Helton fol­critical weekend for the San
BIRTHDAY, 

lowed one batter later with his Diego Padres. 32nd homer, a two-run shot Fighting a virus that's been 
halfway up the second deck in going around the clubhouse, right that cut the Cardinals' lead Nevin had IVs on Saturday night to 5-2. and again an hour before 
SUGAR 
DADDY! 

Atlanta 6, Florida 3 Sunday's game, which the Padres The Florida Marlins blamed the won for a three-game sweep of FOREVER OUR 
weather and the schedule. Arizona that helped them make
"D.IIJI.MBINO-,:. 

Manager Jack McKeon said his up ground in the NL wild-card starting pitchers haven't deliv­race. ered. With Jake Peavy pitching six
LOVE, YOUR GIRLS 

Florida's surprising 2003 sea-strong innings to lower his NL-
Information Sessibnior NoJre Dame's lnternaikinal Study Programs in 
;D\.151in·,~ 1'~91 and~­
.;:-. 

....... ·...._ . .. 
. -.~!:~·.:, . 
-.-. . . ·.: :::: -:.::: :·. :~~:;_~:~.:... ::: .·. . ·:.. ;....~·-::-... ·.:.'.·:·: .. . ....... 
. ··. ..::.~ .·.....· 
University College Dublin: Fall 2005, Spring 20()(3, 
Trinity College Dublin: Academlc,Year 2005-06 
Trinity Irish Studies SumrnerSchool: Summer 200q .•. 

-
March 1. 2005 for SiJmn1 
....fww.nd.. · 



leading ERA to 2.25, the Padres pulled within 2 1/2 games of the Chicago Cubs in the wild-card race and remained 4 1/2 games behind first-place Los Angeles in the NL West. Houston and San Francisco are also ahead of the Padres in the wild-card chase, and the Giants are two games ahead of San Diego in the divi­sion. 
Pittsburgh 4, Cincinnati 2 
The Pirates finished the home portion of another dismal season with a victory. 
Slumping Tike Hedman hit a pair of run-scoring singles, and Pittsburgh beat the Cincinnati Reds Sunday to stop a five-game losing streak. 
Pittsburgh went 39-41 at PNC Park and has not had a winning record at home since going 45-36 in 1999. The Pirates, 69-86 over­all, are assured of their 12th con­secutive losing season. 
Wilson helped save the win by starting a spectacular double play in the eighth. Leadoff hitter Anderson Machado walked and pinch hitter Jacob Cruz grounded a ball sharply up the middle. Wilson made a diving stop, then used his glove to flip the ball to second baseman Jose Castillo, who made an accurate throw to first as Machado was sliding into him. 
Josh Fogg (10-10) won for the fourth time in six decisions and improve to 5-1 against the Reds, allowing one run and six hits in 5 2-3 innings. Jose Mesa pitched the ninth for his 41st save in 46 chances. 
Philadelphia 2, Montreal1 
Bobby Abreu hit a two-run double to back a solid outing by Cory Lidle in Philadelphia's victo­ry over Montreal on Sunday. 
A promotion helped draw a crowd of 12,382 as the first 10,000 fans to arrive at Olympic Stadium were given an Expos winter knit cap. The Expos, expected to be relocated for 2005, begin a three-game series against Florida on Monday in what will likely be the final major league games in Montreal. 
Lidle (11-12), who improved to 4-0 in his last six starts, alloWf)d four hits including Brian Schneider's RBI single in the fifth in 7 1-3 innings. lie left after allowing Maicer Izturis' one-out single in the eighth. 
"I was getting ahead of hitters, throwing strikes with my off­speed pitches and forcing them to make contact," Lidle said. 


--------------------~--------------~--------------~ 
Monday, September 27, 2004 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 

Victory 
continued from page 24 
Megna. McGeeney leads the Irish with three goals on the season. 
The game marked Goldthwaite's healthy return. He re-entered the Irish lineup after sustaining a leg injury earlier in the season and missing the first seven games. 

CLAIRE KELLEYfThe Observer 

Forward Tony Megna goes one-on-one with the goal­keeper against Georgetown on Sept.18. 
"It felt good," he said of the game. "It feels good now to be back in almost full health." 
Putting one in the confer­ence win column also felt good for the veteran defender. 
"The biggest improvement was coming on and playing how we wanted to play," said Goldthwaite. "Last Thursday we didn't really play how we wanted to play." 
The defense held steady throughout the game, forcing goalkeeper Chris Sawyer to make only one save. Fellow defenders Jack Stewart, Christopher High, Ben Crouse and Ryan Miller welcomed back the steadfast left back. 
On the offense, the Irish recorded 12 shots with six on goal. Nine of the shots came in the second period as the offense found their stride in the Wildcats' danger zone. Villanova goalie Craig Bald recorded five saves. 
Defensively, the Irish were steady, allowing only six shots in the game. 
The Irish will continue Big East play against Boston College on Oct. 1. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
SMC SoccER 

Belles upset by Olivet in 4-1 loss 
By RYAN DUFFY 
Sports Writer 
Sometimes, there are just no words for a game like this. 
Entering Saturday's game undefeated in MIAA play, Saint Mary's was upset 4-1 by Olivet College, dropping them out of first place in the conference and leav­ing them wondering what went wrong. 
"I don't even know what to say. I'm speechless," sophomore Ashley Hinton said. "We didn't look like ourselves out on that soccer field. We didn't come out and play well." 
The Belles trailed for most of the game, and after tying the game at 1-1 midway through the first half, they allowed three unanswered goals to close out the game. The only bright spot came when senior Katie Noble received a corner kick and managed to slip the ball around a large group of players for a goal. 
"Olivet just took it to us," said Hinton. "They knew that we were one of the better teams, and they just brought their game." 

The Belles entered the game having given up the least amount of goals in the MIAA conference, but they had no answer Saturday for sophomore Stacey Stickney, who scored all four goals for Olivet College. Olivet was 1-2 entering the game, but displayed an unexpected dominance over the Belles. 
"It just proves that on any given day, any MIAA team can come out and play a great game," Hinton said. "Being in first place in the conference, \Ve've got a target on our back. Every team that faces us is going to want to beat us. The MIAA is such a strong conference that no matter what place a team 
. is in, no team can be taken light­ly." Although the loss is certainly demoralizing, the players recog­nized the fact they had an off day. "It definitely wasn't like we entered this game unprepared," Hinton said. "We were shocked 
throughout the game, but we never gave up at any point. We just couldn't find the net. 
"As hard as we tried, the shots just weren't falling." Rather than dwell on Saturday's mistakes, the Belles will-instead look forward to foeus on a big upcoming week. 
"We want to shake off this loss and move forward. We've got a big week coming up, and we need to set our sights on that. We'd like to stay real positive and come ready to play for every game for the rest of the year." 
Though the Belles can no longer achieve their goal of going undefeated in MIAA play, they still have high hopes for winning their conference. 
"We still feel confident for the rest of the MIAA season," Hinton said. "We need to just learn from thiis and move on. We've got to come out strong for Hope and Calvin and redefine what we want to do in this conference." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy 1 @nd.edu 
Upset 
continued from page 24 
score, the Irish used Saturday's layoff to rest up and prepare to repeat their successful round and make a run at the title Sunday. They accomplished both things Sunday, storming through the competition and shooting a combined 297 to finish at 593 and move from one behind leader Missouri to four strokes in front of second­place Oklahoma, who fin­ished with a 597. 
Remarkably, every I.rish golfer finished with scores below 80 in both rounds, a remarkable feat, especially considering the weather. Leading the charge for the Irish was junior co-captain Katie Brophy, who not only led the team but also won the tournament by two strokes over Amparo Gala of Oklahoma. Brophy fol­lowed her .impressive round of 69 Friday, which left her in second place, with an even par 7 2, a score good enough to secure a victory for her. 
With her third individual title, Brophy set the career Notre Dame record for indi­vidual titles, a record that she has plenty of time to improve on. 
Right behind Brophy in the standings was sopho­more Noriko Nakazaki, who followed her three-Dver-par 75 on Friday with a two­
over  par 74  on  Sunday to  
finish  in  a  tie  for  tenth  
place  with  a  149.  

Sophomore Stacy Brown finished one stroke behind, shooting 150 and finishing tied for 14th place. Rounding out the Irish line­up were freshman Jane Lee, who shot a 153, and junior Lauren Gebauer, who fin­ished the weekend with a 155, to finish tied for 26th and 47th, respectively. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
We J)o Mondays Like No Place Else! 


Enjoy a double order of chicken. s±eak or combo faji±as ( enous}l for ±wo) for jus± ~11!* 

MLB 

Guillen suspended for season 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM -Angels left fielder Jose Guillen was sus­pended for the rest of the sea­son Sunday because of his out­burst after being lifted for. a pinch runner a day earlier. 
Guillen was informed of the club's decision after batting practice, when the Angels closed their clubhouse for 75 minutes. Anaheim said he was being suspended without pay and the suspension would con­tinue into the postseason in the Angels qualify for the playoffs. 
"He was obviously not happy with the decision," Anaheim general manager Bill Stoneman said. "Unfortunately, this was not the first time something has cropped up with Jose." 
Guillen was hit by a pitch to open the eighth inning of Saturday's 5-3 victory over Oakland. Manager Mike Scioscia sent Alfredo Amezaga in to pinch run. 
Guillen walked off the field as the A's changed pitchers, tossed his helmet toward the side of the dugout Scioscia was standing in and walked to the opposite side of the dugout before entering. He slammed his glove against the wall. 
Scioscia downplayed the 

incident, as did Guillen after the game. However, Scioscia said he didn't sleep Saturday night. 
"We had to do something with Jose," he said. "This is about the organization, not one guy. Bill wanted to be loud and clear with the message. It was an issue getting in the way of winning." 
Stoneman said the club advised the commissioner's office of Guillen's punishment and send a fax to the players' association. Stoneman said the decision was based on the team's opinion that Guillen violated the conduct provision in the uniform player's con­tract. 
Guillen's agent, Adam Katz, declined comment. 
"It's certainly not conduct that we would expect," said Stoneman, who reached the decision with Scioscia. 
Sciascia wouldn't say whether Guillen was contrite when told of his suspension. 
"He understands the line he crossed," Sciascia said. "It was needed. It wasn't just from yesterday." 
Guillen will not be allowed to be with the team the rest of the regular season, which ends next Sunday. Stoneman said the decision was "very difficult" because the Angels 
r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·,
Now leasing quality houses 
close to campus for the 2005/6 and 2006/7 school years. 
Call Sean at 
Anlan Properties 
574-532-'!895 
L·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 
are chasing division-leading Oakland in the AL West. 
"This is something we con­sidered very carefully," he said. 
Guillen, who signed a $6 million, two-year contract during the offseason, went on a profanity-laced tirade after being beaned in a game at Toronto in May, complaining that his teammates weren't retaliating for him. Anaheim pitcher Jarrod Washburn was annoyed Guillen went public with his complaint. 
Catcher Bengie Molina and utility outfielder Jeff DaVanon expressed surprise at the sanction. 
"He's aggressive, he's a good teammate," Molina said. "I would be more than glad to have him back." 
Reliever Troy Percival said the team's focus has to remain on the pennant race. 
"It's not shock level because we don't have time for that," he said. "If we start thinking about anything else than win­ning ballgames, it's not going to help us at all." 
Adam Riggs started in place of Guillen. 
Guillen P,ad just three RBis this month after driving in 20 runs in August. He hit .294 with 27 homers and a career­high 104 RBis in 148 games. 

page 22 Monday, September 27, 2004
The Observer+ SPORTS 

Woinen 
continued from page 24 
half that if we got one, we could break it open." Waldrum said. 
The Irish did in fact extend their lead three minutes left in the game. A left side corner kick from Thorlakson was sent to Tancredi, who headed the ball to the right side of the pocket. The pass set up Candace Chapman to score her sixth goal of the season. 
Despite having to come from behind for the 3-1 victory, Waldrum was pleased with the way his team performed. 

"The character of the team showed and if we are really going to be the best team in the country, we have to come back and win games like this," Waldrun said. Notre Dame 4, University of Wisconsin-Green Bay 0 
The Irish continued their dom­inance Sunday after playing the University of Wisconsin-Green Bay. Notre Dame began the match by doing what Waldrum had set out to do, take advan­tage of the early opportunities. 
The team took advantage in the first half by scoring four goals out of its first five attempts. 
The first two goals came from Thorlakson within the first 20 minutes of the contest. Five minutes later, the third goal came off an assist from Thorlakson to Cinalli who scored at the top of the box for the 3-0 lead. 
The fourth and final goal of the half was scored by Annie Schefter who drove to the top of the box and hit the right side of the net. 
During the second half, the team made several changes to its lineup and failed to score. However, the Irish did manage to keep Wisconsin-Green Bay scoreless in the second period to get the shutout. 
Despite being kept scoreless for the second half of play, Waldrum remained optimistic with the team's performance on Sunday and is looking for the Irish to continue to mature and find chemistry on the field. 

"I think if we keep sharp men­tally and keep our focus as a team that we have a great shot at making a good run [in the NCAA Tournament]." Waldrum said. 
Another contributing factor to the team's overall success is Thorlakson's presence on and off the field. 
"She is one of the best players in the country. We have not come across any of the top teams this year and seen any­body play better than her," Waldrum said. "Hopefully [this year] she will get the recogni­tion that she really deserves." Notes: 
Last week, Thorlakson announced she will remain with the Irish for the rest of the sea­son. Thorlakson had the oppor­tunity to play for the Canadian team at the Under-19 World nals. Championships, Nov. 10-27. but would have missed the NCAA Contact Dan Tapetillo at Tournament up to the quarterfi-jtapetil@nd.edu 

"We just try to give them some confidence and let them
Tourney 
show us what they can do," continued from page 22 Whitten says. 

One of the golfers competing let us find out who we should in the event is junior Tommy use in our lineup," assistant Balderston. Balderston, a head coach Chris Whitten said. steady and capable contributor 
In NCAA rules. each team to the Irish team last year, has and each player had some troubles have a maximum early on this sea­
"We just try to 

of 24 competition son trying to pick
give them some

days they can up where he left schedule during confidence and off. the season. "Tommy was
let them show us 

Every year, the struggling when
what they

Irish max out he came to school their schedule can do." this fall, he was with events for one of our top five the varsity team, all last year,"
Chris Whitten

mostly against Whitten said.
Irish coach 

teams of equal or "Since he didn't greater caliber. play in either of As a result, struggling or the first two tournaments, he's developing players may not see okay with competition days competition as much as they or [limit]. so we're putting him in the coach would prefer. To there." allow these players to play and Four other Irish golferS' will make their case, they are often be joining Balderston, includ­inserted as individuals into ing junior Daniel Klauer and weaker fields, often dubbed sophomore Adam Gifford. TWo "JV events." other golfers, junior Federico Salazar and freshman Eddie Peckels, are competing in their first events of the season. In Peckles' case, the John Dallio Memorial will be the first com­petition of his career. 
Whitten is confident that this event will help light a spark in his players, and feels that every member of the team could do well. 
"[At Prairie Landing]. even someone who's shooting aver­age can still shoot a low score," Whitten said. "Everyone [from the Irish] is capable of winning." 
With a good two days and a strong week of qualifying, those players competing this weekend hope to earn their spot in the team's lineup and compete for the Irish. The var­sity team will be back in action again on Oct. 4, at the Windon Memorial Classic in Lake Forest, Ill., possibly including one or more of the players bat­tling it out this weekend. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles take sixth at Jamboree 
By ANNA FRICANO 
Spom Writer 

The Saint Mary's cross country team finished sixth overall Saturday at the MIAA Jamboree at Hope College. The team's top runner, Megan Gray, was injured in the middle of the race and had to finish the day on a twisted ankle. 
Meghan Murphy, who fmished in the top spot for Saint Mary's and 23rd overall, had nothing but words of praise for her team­mate. 
"[Megan[ was in a lot of pain and she finished strong ... she still had a really good attitude," Murphy said. 
Gray, who took to icing her ankle after the race, is question­able for the upcoming races but will certainly return in time for the conference championship at the end of October. 
Although the team didn't finish as high as the fourth place spot that they are hoping to end the season with, they still view the race as a success. 
"Everyone tried their hardest, and it was obvious in their per­formance," Murphy said. 
The Belles finished only two points behind the fifth place fm­ishers, Alma College. Since this meet only accounted for one third of the total conference points, the Belles can still finish above Alma. 
Additionally, Becky Feauto and Katie White, who finished second and third respectively for Saint Mary's, both recorded their best times so far this season. Their strong finishes were a good indi­cation that every runner on the team can peak near the end of the season, which is exactly what coach Dave Barstis is planning on. That capability will be most important in a few weeks, when the conference standings are on the line. 
Few surprises occurred in the standings of the Jamboree. Hope and Calvin dominated the compe­tition, finishing well ahead of all other schools. Albion did overtake Kalamazoo College for a spot in the top three, and Saint Mary's put themselves in a comfortable spot in the conference. 
"I think we fulfilled our expec­tations and had fun ... everybody was in a great mood after the race," Murphy said. 
The Belles are now looking ahead to the Oct. 30 race that will decide the season. They will use the next five weeks to recuperate, train and prepare themselves for the championship meet. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles defeat Olviet, Hope in tournatnent 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's finally had something to smile about on Saturday. At the Hope College Triangular the Belles came out with a pair of conference vic­tories over Hope College and Olivet College. 
The wins improve the Belles' record to 3-5 in the MIAA, placing them only one game behind Hope College for sixth place. The team is only 3-8 on the year, but put themselves right back in the hunt in the league. 
"We always knew we could do it," senior Michelle Gary said. "Hope is a huge rival for us and always has been. There have been other things outside the matches that have affected us and I think we were able to finally get passed that." 
In the first match against the Flying Dutchman, the Belles won in live tight games. They came out of the gates strong to capture the first two contests by scores of 32-30 and 30-24. However, things got a little tense as Hope evened the score with two wins of its own. But in the fifth and finalgame, Saint Mary's was able to seal the victory with a 15-12 win. 
Michelle Turley and Shelly Bender led the charge with 15 and 12 kills apiece respective­ly, while Anne Stephanie Bauer collected 19 digs. Amada David had 16 digs of her own. 
Another key statistic in the match was the team's ability to block. Behind a strong defen­sive showing, Saint Mary's had 
13.5 blocks in the contest. 
"The biggest change was our net defense," Gary said. "Great blocking gives our team ener­gy and the back row played well when we needed it." 
The second match against Olivet proved to be an easier victory for the Belles as they rolled over the Comets in three straight games. 
Saint Mary's won the first game by a score of 30-25. and from there things only got bet­ter. They held Olivet to 21 points in game two and pun­ished the Comets in the final game by holding them to only 13 points. 
The offense was powered by a strong overall performance from the entire team, as a variety of players contributed to the victory. On defense, Gary and Anne Cusack played very well and supplied the majority of the digs. 
Saint Mary's will have time to polish up its game this week. The Belles are idle until Saturday when they return to their home floor against Albion College at 11 a.m. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 




Monday, September 27, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 35 Funnel-shaped 65 Peru's capital 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Christina Milian, Serena Williams, 
Poi source 36 Craze 66 Back tooth 
Shawn Stockman, James Caviezel 

5 "The Thin Man" 38 Hurry 67 Slips 
Happy Birthday: You will discover what love really means to you by the
dog 39 Activities that 68 Fizzless, as a 
interaction you have with someone you may have .taken for granted in the past. 9 Rum-soaked generate no soft drink 
Open up to those offering information this year. Something you are told will cakes money have a tremendous impact on your future. Your numbers are I, 8, 17, 26, 36, 44 
14 Stench 42 Surgery spots, DOWN for short 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Take advantage of an opportunity that presents 
15 Where an 1 Cargo weights 
itself. You can make financial gains through winnings, investments or selling
honoree may sit 43 Indians of New 
2 Sandler of "Big something you no longer use. *** 
York

16 Friend, south of Daddy" TAURUS (April 20-May 20): A romantic relationship will develop if you are 44 Jack who ate single or you can rekindle the flame if you are currently involved. Your unique 
the border 
3 Painter Bonheur 1-=--1-----lf---+--+­

no fat spin to whatever you do will attract attention. **** 17 Rocket 4 Face-to-face GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't expect things to run smoothly and you
45 Seeded loaves

scientist's exam will stand a much better chance of getting things done. Someone will try to ­employer 47 Dog-tag 5 Takes as one's dump his or her responsibilities in your lap. Be prepared to say no. ** wearers, briefly CANCER (June 21-July 22): Travel will lead to an interesting tum of events.
18 Prefix with own 
Your participation will bring about a chance meeting with someone who will 
potent 48 Choirs may 
6 Pago-Pago~s 
alter your future. ***** 
stand on them

19 Alpine song land LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Money can be made if you develop a creative idea. 20 Not much 7 Salon 
49 Overly Winnings or receiving money you never expected to get back is evident. Focus 51 Loser to D.D.E. application on family, health and finishing what you·start. *** 
23_glance 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Personal developments are likely to take place
(quickly) twice 8 Where Nepal is 
today. Talks with someone you care about will lead to a new set of rules or
52 Boatswains, e.g.

24 Center of 9 Louisiana commitments. *** activity 59 A-rated, say waterway LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may be able to tum a part-time interest into something lucrative. You can make a difference to someone you haven't heard 
25 Grammys, e.g. 61 Poker payment 10 Microscopic 
from in a long time. *** 
organism

29 Tip for a 62 Confess SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Love is in a high cycle. Take a bit of time out ballerina 63 Tutu material 
11 Bridge to do something nice for yourself. Relax or make a few minor alterations to
34 Checkups 48 Directs (to) 55 Ranch

declarations your appearance. ***** 
31 Aide: Abbr. 64 Rude look newborn
12 Questionnaire 361052, in a 50 Stream bank SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Avoid getting involved in too many group activities. Sitting back, reading or going over some of the things that
datum proclamation cavorter 56 Diabolical 

have been making your life so complex lately will help your mental outlook.
ANSWER TO-:-:-rPR::-Er.V:TI-;::-Or.U;:"IS-:::PTU:;-Zr;:Z~L-:-E~ 13 Note after fa 37 St. Francis' 51 "_you" ("You 
57 Capital south of *"' birthplace go firsf')
.;:;.+-:+::+.~=+::=+:::+=+=-B 21 Scottish beau Venezia CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Forget about work and all the pressures 40 Lingo 52 Clout that you usually carry around with you. Take time to enjoy friends, family or
-:+~::+:-+::,-+.,;-+-:-1-:-:-f-:+~ 22 "A League of 
58 Whack 

any interest that you haven't been. able to find time for. **** 
_Own" (1992 41 Raises 53 Connecticut 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Make a game plan and consider what you
comedy) campus 59 Bank amenity,

46 "A Streetcar need to learn in order to follow your dream. Believing is half the battle. You
for short 

Named Desire" 54 Unique are smart and capable. ***
"n]l~!t~··· 25 Cast member 

woman individual 60 Pair PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Do what works for you and don't worry about what others want you to do. You've put your own plans on the back burner for 
~ 26 'What, me_?" 
r:::+;,;.+-:::-1 27 Liqueur flavorer 

too long. You can only accomplish your goals by being passionate about them. 
28 Speed (up) For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
*** 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
'7t7:+-::+-:+:7! 29 Blackmailer's Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, caring and in control all at the same time.

evidence 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. You are intelligent and have the charm and charisma to reach your goals.30 Burden 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
-:+,..,..r.::+:-~ 

Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialasr.com.
-:-+-:::+.=+-:~ 32 English county past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). ~-=+::+:-~ 33 Ravi Shankar's Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young instrument solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
PEANUTS 
1DID 1 TELL '(OU? 1 VE DECIDED TO RVN FOR  1 1 '' P16PEN,''(OU RE SUCH A ME55 I WOULDN'T VOTE FOR  
CLASS PRESIDENT..  '(OU FOR FR0.6 CATCHER!  

HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

~~ 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HAIKK 

rJ t J
1 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
JASON 
± 
WHAT THE: GOI-FE:R E:X­C.I-AIME:D WHE:N He KE:PT HITTING THE: BAl-l-IN 
www.jurrb~.oom 
THE: WATE:R.
ITENSOX I 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as1 suggested by the above cartoon.
rJ t J An~r: rr·s rI"I I IJ rI I I J
A (Answers tomorrow) 
Saturday's I Jumbles: MIDGE QUAKE BARROW POTTER Answer: Tough to do after a workout-GET THE WORKOUT 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. · 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ____________________~--------------­City _______ State _____ Zip______ 
P------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-----­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, September 27, 2004 
page 24 

WoMEN's SoccER 
Thorlakson, Irish stay perfect 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
The No. I ranked Irish (1 0-0­

0) apparently needed a chal­lenge to prove why they are the top-ranked program in the nation. 
Friday night's 3-1 victory over Pittsburgh (3-0-0) was not an easy win for Notre Dame as the team found itself with a deficit in the first half. 
Tho physil~al style of' play by the Panther oiTense turned out to be bnnelidal f'or Pittsburgh as the team seored in the 31st minute of the game. Pittsburgh midfielder Erin llills tracked down a loose ball and seored outside the top of' the box over Irish goalkenpPr Erika Bohn to give the Panther's a 1-0 lead. 
The Irish struggled to find the net throughout the _first half despite having nine opportuni­ties. As the dock wound down towards halftime, it was appar­ent a sense of urgency began to a!Tnct the Notre Dame's play. 
"When it was getting a little closer to halftime, you could see a little bit of panic in the kids," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "That is one of the things we wanted to solve at halftime was to just calm down and relax." 
In the second half, the team continued to struggle early on with finding the net. It wasn't until 19 minutes left in regula­tion that the Irish finally scored their first goal. An assist from Kim Lorenzen opened up the shot f'or Melissa Tancredi at the top of the box and the ball was 

MEN'S SOCCER 

Mldflelder Nate Norman breezes by two defenders from Cal State Fullerton on Sept. 12. The game ended in a 0-0 tie. 
deflected into the goal. The goal was Tancredi's second of the season. 
"We had plenty of time in the next half but it was important that we got the next goal. We couldn't go two down," Waldrum said. "Fortunately, it was Melissa's goal off the deflec­tion, and we'll take it anyway we can get. But it got us back in." 
Once the Irish scored, it only took the team three minutes to find the net once again. The goal came oft' a penalty kick by Katie Thorlakson. The penalty kick was awarded to the Irish after freshman forward Amanda Cinalli was tackled in the box by the Panther's Rachel Vecchio. 
"We talked about it during 
see WOMEN/page 22 

McGeeney puts Irish over Wildcats 
Goldthwaite returns to Irish lineup for the first time this season as No.9 Notre Dame defeats former conference leader No. 21 Villanova 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 

Twenty-three feet of net space has never loomed so large in the Big East confer­ence. 
On Thursday, the Irish statis­tically dominated West Virginia but dropped the match with a final score of 1-0. On Sunday, the Irish toppled the Villanova Wildcats when sharpshooter Justin McGeeney found the back of the net early in the sec-and period. 
After losing to West Virginia, the Irish improved to 5-2-1 overall and 2-1 in the Big East conference. Sunday's victory stifled a five-game winning streak from Villanova, who fell tg 5-1-1 and posted a 3-1 record in the conference. 
"After the loss, it was great," said defender Kevin Goldthwaite. "The guys were super motivated and ready to play, [and] I guess that's all you can ask for coming off a loss like that." 
McGeeney's game-winner was an important step forward for the Irish. 
"We eame out with a lot more intensity today," he said. "I think that was really what was missing in Thursday's game and we really wanted to come out hard [against Villanova) and get the tirst goal." 
Scored in the forty-seventh minute, McGeeney's goal was recorded as unassisted off a ball played into the box by Tony 
see VICTORY/page 21 

NO GOLF 
Women top tournament, men hope to excel 
Irish finish first at invitational by defeating top-ranked Missouri 
extremely talented field that ran from Friday through By ERIC RETTER included top ranked Sunday, was originally sup­Spores Writer Missouri. All in all, the Irish posed to be 54-holes, but 
defeated four top 20 teams, heavy rain on Saturday 

After this weekend, the also beating Arkansas, Iowa forced tournament officials world of women's golf State, and Oklahoma. to cancel play for the day should have a shakeup at The Irish, who were and cut the tournament the top. ranked 30th in the down to 36 holes. 
Thn Irish team prevailed Golfweek/Sagarin Index After walking off the and finished first at the before this weekend, played course Friday in third place Jnannine McHaney well the entire 36 holes on following a strong 296 team Invitational/Central Hegional their way to the champi" preview, ahead of an onship. The event, which see UPSET/page 21 
Tournament should be opporunity for golfers 
DePaul, will be competing in 

By ERIC RETTER the tournament as teams. 
Sports Writer However, Notre Dame will not 
compete as a team, as all five 

Five members of the Irish Irish golfers are entered as men's golf team will compete individuals. today and Tuesday at the John "We are not competing as a Dallio Memorial in West team, but we view this as a Chicago, Ill.. The event will be chance to give people on the hosted by DePaul University bubble of making the lineup a and played at the Prairie chance to get experience and Landing Golf Club. 
Many teams, including host see TOURNEY/page22 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
SMC RUNNING 
SMC SOCCER 

MLB 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
PGA TOUR

en ..... 
MIAA Jamboree 
Olivet 4 

1-u 
Saint Mary's 1 
z The Belles defeated 

Angels left fielder Jose 
The top 25 teams 
Vijay Singh passed 
Olivet and Hope en 
A sixth-place finish 

Guillen was suspended 
remain unchanged after 
Tiger Woods for first on

a: :3 
Ct 
Olivet broke Saint 
a weekend of few
route to a first-place fin-
was in store for the 

for the rest of the season 
the PGA Tour money
~ 
Belles at the annual 
Mary's perfect confer-

because of a recent tern-
list.
ish at the Hope College 
upsets. 

a.. Cl: tc 
Trian-gular. 
MIAA event. 
ence record. 

per tantrum. 
page 22 
page 22 
page 21 

page 18 
page 15

en 
page 21 






