-------~-----~-------~-~ 
I I

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Student leaders prepare to leave office 
Lao,.Chin express satisfaction with accomplishments 
By MAUREEN REYNOLDS Associate News Editor 
The past year h<L'> been one of many changes for Notre Dame's student government. However. through these changes, student body president Jeremy Lao and nwmbers of his oflice have tried to keep focused on their main goal: to serv1~ the student body. 
Student body vice president t·:rnily Chin echoed this goal when spm1king on the accomplishments Above, outgoing Notre of studm1t governm1mt. 
"I think that we have addressed Dame student body presi­some of the major student issues 
dent Jeremy Lao; at left,
and interests on campus," she said. Saint Mary's president 
l.ao commented on his ofTice's 
Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl
aceomplishmenl'i. "I would have to say that [our and vice president Sarah gn~at1~st accomplishnwntl would 
Brown

b1~ Alcohol Awareness Week," he said. "The Board of Trustees applauded the event, and it 
•

showed that the Student Union is PHOTOS BY willing to work with the adminis-
SOFIA BALLON AND see TRANSITION/page 6 ALLISON NICHOLS 
Jablonski-Diehl lauds BOG, communication with students 
their term. President-elect Sarah who worked hard and creatively communications was one reason By NICOLE ZOOK Catherine White and vice-presi­deserve the credit for a successful we resurrected the tradition of a 
News Writer 
dent elect Mary Pauline Moran year." State of the School Address," will take ofTice Thursday. Platform goals such as inform­Jablonski-Diehl said. "We workedEad1 spring, a change occurs The women have demonstrated ing students about student gov­hard to let students know aboutat Saint Mary's. Whether students leadership in a number of ways ernment and improving commu­the activities that we were plan­an~ immediately aware of' it or over the past year, affecting both nication were met, making the ning. We worked even harder tofail to notice until the end of the policy changes and the everyday year a success, Jablonski-Diehl listen to students so that we couldacademic year, student govern­lives of students. Jablonski-Diehl, said. She emphasizes the vitality really act as their representa­ment turnover is the result of 
however, gives all credit to those of communication between stu­tives."
months of planning to ensure a who served along side her on dents and their representatives, Jablonski-Diehl and Brown
smooth transition between 
BOG. and believes she and Brown have headed a board that not only lis­administrations. 
"No student body president successfully accomplished that tened to students' needs, but also Outgoing student body presi­acts alone," she said. "Student goal throughout the course of worked to have those needs met.
dent Elizabeth Jablonski-Diehl government accomplished its their term. As a result, programs such asand vice president Sarah Brown goals because we were able to "We sought to improve rela­VISA, Friends With Sisters andpresided over their la.<;t Board of 
act together, even when we dis­tions between The Observer and
Governance meeting Monday. 
agreed. The remarkable women student government. Improved see SMC/page 9 Today marks the conclusion of 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
NDhelps 
• 

semors 
find jobs 
By JEN ROWLING News Writer 
With graduation about a month away, seniors are left organizing their plans for the future. While some aro morn prepared than others, the class of 2004 is in a better position than See Also 
last year's "Center aids graduating 
SMC seniors in

class thanks to a stable job hunt." job market, 
page4

said Lee Svete. direc­tor of Notre Dame's Career Center. 
Svete believes companies are realizing they may have underestimated their need for recruits. Consequently, Go Irish job postings are up 23 percent from last year. In addition, llcwlett-Packard recently notified the Career Center of its need to fill 104 positions. 
"I don't want to be over optimistic," Svete said. "It has been a competitive year. yet I have seen more activity then last year." 
Typically, within six months of graduating, 43 percent of seniors find full-time employ­ment, 35 percent attend grad­uate school, 13 percent engage in volunteer work, four percent take military jobs and one percent take time off. 
The University will not know the percentages for this year until a survey is con­ducted after graduation. As of now, full-time job positions 
see CAREER/page 8 

Male .students dominate Mendoza College of Business 
ond-most popular major ­
Hditor's note: This is the 
directly opposes the other four.
third in a three-part series on 
with 57 percent of the 279 mar­
Gender Differ~nces in the College of Business
gender representation in 
keting majors being women. 
Notre Dame's colleges. 
Nichols, who also teaches in
All Enrolled Students Management MIS 
the accounting department, saidBy KATE GALES it is difficult to say why women 
News Writer 
are such a minority in all but one Though nearly a third of Notre 
of Mendoza's majors. Dame's undnrgraduate students 
"We're looking at Notre Dame arc enrolled in the 
students here, they're all really MendozCollege of Business, the 
bright," Nichols said. "You can't gender gap in this college is sec­
just say 'I assume that men are ond only to the College of 
more quantitative than women' Engineering. 
-looking at students' SAT 
At the end of the fall semester, 
scores, you can't get into [Notre 64 percent of the 1,010 juniors Dame] without being quantita­and seniors with declared majors 542 sophomores being men. accounting, management, man­ment and MIS majors, both of tive." in the College of Business were "We accept anyone that wants agement information studies and which have 78 percent male stu­Especially within the college, men, according to the Office of to be a business major," said marketing. dents. However, these numbers students seem to choose majors Institutional Hesearch. While stu­William Nichols, associate dean Finance majors and accounting can be more misleading, as 108 according to personal interests dents enrolled in Mendoza do not of the college. "We don't actively majors, the largest and third­students only declared manage­and talents, not because of tradi· declare their specific major with­recruit anyone to come here." largest majors in the college, ment as of last fall. MIS is even tiona! sex roles. in the college until the end of Notably, sex discrepancies var­enroll 76 and 63 percent male smaller, with only 94 students Matt Frey, a sophomore in the their sophomore year, the trend ied considerably among the five students respectively. The gender enrolled. continued with 63 percent of the business majors: finance, gap seems larger for manage-Marketing -the college's sec-see MCOB/page 9 
Wednesday, March 31, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Corby's or bust 
As I write this column, it's a Tuesday evening and I don't want to be in the basement of South Dining Hall. I don't want to write about student government. I don't want to lay out the busi­ness page. I don't want to crop pho­tos. 
I have a few bucks in my pock­et, a spring in my step and a thirst that only a $3 pitcher can quench. That's right, I'm talking about Corby's Irish Pub, my favorite bar in the bustling metropolis that is South Bend. 
Don't get me wrong; I don't mean to slight the other fine bars in the area. Boat Club is great, the 'Backer is a hell of a place and Fiddler's Hearth is a fun time. But Corby's has a special place in my heart. 
This delightful little establishment on the corner of LaSalle and Niles is a treasure trove of good times. 
Drinks are reasonably priced and pretty good. The aforementioned $3 pitchers can be had in Miller Genuine Draft, Miller Lite or Coors Light. If that's a little too high class for you, a buck will buy the coldest can of Pabst Blue Ribbon you ever had. And the always attractive ladies behind the bar make the best gin and tonics in the state of Indiana. 
But the drinks aren't the only thing to love-there's just so much to do. Take your pick from among five pool tables, all of which are occupied all the time. Toss darts at any of the five electronic machines, complete with taunting noises. Watch ESPN on the big screen TV. Dodge townies. Or just plain drink until you fall down, like a certain friend of mine did on her 21st birthday last week. 
I've even heard a rumor they have food. 
I just love the place. I love weav­ing my way to the bar through a couple hundred of my closest friends. I love the worn felt on the pool tables. I love the fenced-in patio behind the bar, even though it's 35 degrees every single day of the year. I love the hundreds of dol­lar bills stapled above the bar, bearing the signatures of delighted patrons. 
I even love the graffiti in the men's room: "Please don't drop toothpicks into the urinals. The crabs have learned how to pole vault." 
And it's Notre Dame through and through. 
The bar scenes in Rudy were filmed there. The place has blue and gold sweatshirts for sale. A neon leprechaun and monogram NO are mounted prominently on the walls. It's packed with Darners, shoulder to shoulder. And I'm on my way to join 'em. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Bramanti at braman­ti.l@nd.edu. 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WOULD YOU GIVE AN HONORARY DEGREE TO? 








Amelia Hlrschauer  Anna Nussbaum  Caitlin Smith  Carolyn Connor  Monica Real  
Freshman Farley  Sophomore Farley  Sophomore Farley  Sophomore Farley  Sophomore Farley  
"What? I don't  "Boy George,  "Guster and  "Monica Real,  "Myself At this  
even know what  Gender  Ben Folds,  because at the  rate, it may be  
that means. "  Studies."  because we're  rate she's going,  the only way I  
going to their  that may be the  get one."  

concert." only way she's going to get 
, 
one. 


OFFBEAT 
Man burned after firing rocket Inside car 

JACKSONVILLE, Fla. ­Shannon Kramer's plans to fire a rocket toward his girlfriend went awry when the firework ricocheted inside his car and dived between his legs, bursting in a display that burned hair and skin from his feet to his groin, police said. 
Kramer, 35, told The Florida Times-Union he lit a fuse on the 6-inch-rocket, but wasn't able to get it out the window of his Ford Mustang before it went <>ff. 

Seconds later, after the rocket blasted around inside the car, Kramer was 
burned and temporarily blinded. 
"I thought I was· dead," he said. "I couldn't see, I couldn't hear. I went to stand up and I couldn't walk." 
Kramer said he was only playing a prank and was intending to fire the rocket out the window as he passed. 
Man allegedly tries to buy vote with beer 
LUDLOW, Ky. -Police have charged a northern Kentucky man with trying to buy a vote with a 12­pack of beer. 
Edward Lucas offered 
the beer to an 18-year-old student at Ludlow High School in exchange for a no vote on a proposed nickel increase in school property taxes, Ludlow police officer James Tucker said in an affidavit. The teen was not named. 
Lucas, 40, denied the charge. 
"I don't know the boy, and that's not exactly what was said," Lucas said. "I said, 'I hope it doesn't go through and if it doesn't, I'm going to have a big beer party."' 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0: 
LLI
::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..I 
cc 
(.) 





0 
HIGH 45 HIGH HIGH 48
..J 
LOW 40 LOW LOW 35 
39 35 
46 
36 
HIGH LOW 
IN BRIEF 
Angela Glover Blackwell, founder and president of Policy Link and former senior vice president of the Rockefeller Foundation, will give a lecture entitled "Search for the Uncommon Common Ground: New Dimensions on Race in America." It will take place today from 4:30 to 5:45 p.m. 
in  the  auditorium  of  the  
Hesburgh Center.  
Jim  Wallis,  editor  of  

Sojourners Magazine, will lec­ture today on "How will you Vote: Politics and Values in 2004." Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns, the Office of Campus Ministry and Lyons Hall, the lecture will take place at 12:30 p.m. in the Coleman Morse Lounge. Lunch will be provided. 
Notre Dame favorites Gavin and Parker will perform on Saint Mary's campus tonight at 8 p.m. Take a break from studying and come to Dalloway's to enjoy their music. 
"Catholic Perspectives on Economic Justice" will be presented by Teresa Ghilarducci of the Higgins Labor Research Center and Roberto Gutierrez, vice presi­dent of Public Relations and Communications, tonight from 7 to 9 p.m. The lecture will be held in the Coleman Morse Lounge and cover living as a Catholic in response to eco­nomic and social justice through different professions. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

51 49 36 29 


Atlanta 64 I 44 Boston 44 I 36 Chicago 42 I 32 Denver 74 I 40 Houston 77 I 58 Los Angeles 68 I 54 Minneapolis 44 128 New York 48 I 41 Philadelphia 49 I 44 Phoenix 88 I 60 Seattle 54 I 38 St. Louis 46 I 34 Tampa 79 I 62 Washington 54 1 42 


Wednesday, March 31, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Doctor discusses risks, benefits of controversial treahnent 
IU professor lectures on hormone replacement therapy for menopausal women 
sTUDENT VALUE MENU 
One farge, One small Cheese pizza & 
1 
' 

1 5 one order of Cheesy Bread
1-topping pizza. 

or Domino's Dots™. One medium, 1-topping
2. pizza &one order of Bread 6 Two Small Cheese Pizzas. Sticks or Cinna Stix®. 
Five Buffalo Wings & anOne small, 1-topping
3 7 
order of Bread Sticks pizza & a 20 oz. Coke®. 
or Cina Stix®. 
One smalI Cheese pizza & One order of Cheesy
8

5 Buffalo Wings. Bread & Domino's DotsTM. 
:;~; 

NOTRE DAME 
,. 

We accept credit and debit 
271-0300 
By ANDREW THAGARD Associate News Editor 
Dr. Marguerite Shepard, pro­lilssor emerita of obstetrics and gynecology at Indiana University Schpol of Medicine and a nation­ally renowned expnrt in rcpro­d uctive endocrinology, lectured Tuesday on the risks and benefits of hormone replacenwnt therapy. 
Tho talk mark!ld tho second in tlw lOth annual "Mini 'Medical School Lecture Series" presented by tlw South Bend Center for M«ldieal l~ducation and spon­sored by the Medical Education Foundation. 
Shepard. who received her medical degree from Johns Ilopkins University, said that hor­mone replaeement therapy has the ability to rdieve many of the symptoms that menopausal women experience but may also hav«l sonw deleterious eflects. 
llormorw roplaccnwnt therapy involves administering estrogen or a combination of estrogen and prognst«lrone to ease symptoms of Menopausal Syndrome includ­ing hot flashes, night sweats, weakness. memory loss, anxiety, depression, joint pain and decreased sexual desire. The nwnopausal transition age range is 35 to 60 and the severity of the symptoms varies between indi­viduals. 
"This [menopause] is not a sud­eating a healthy diet, exercising den thing," Shepard said. "It is a moderately and taking calcium gradual process and it is more and vitamin D supplements to prominent in some than [in] oth­combat osteoporosis, is some­ers." thing that everyone should con­
Although about 20 percent of sider. women will have only mild symp­"The choice that you're going toms. others will experience to make may be situational," she more extreme hot flashes, which said. "The woman who is work­hormone replacement therapy ing might have a shorter fuse can help alleviate, Shepard said. than someone who is retired. It's She emphasized the importance a choice that has to be made by 
of communi­ you."  
cating  with  Estrogen  
health care providers and  "The increased risk of  therapy has the potential  
seeking early  breast cancer is there  to  alleviate  
treatment. "Early treat­ment is important,"  regardless ofwhether you take hormones, though there may be a slight  vasomotor symptoms. reduce vaginal atrophy and  
Shepard said. "One should­ increase [with hormones]."  urogenital symptoms and  
n't wait until things get  Marguerite Shepard  prevent osteo­porosis. Some  
beyond  the  lecturer  studies.  
point  of  no  Shepard said,  
return."  also  show  a  
The options  reduction  in  

of managing menopausal symp­the risk of primary coronary toms. Shepard said, include artery disease, colorectral cancer 'toughing it out.' estrogen or and overall mortality. estrogen and progesterone ther­At the same time, however, apy, alternative medicine and hormone replacement therapy lifestyle modifications. can also increase the risk of 
While 'toughing it out' may developing endometrial cancer if only be an option for those who estrogen is administered in the have mild symptoms, Shepard absence of progesterone and said, making minor adjustments strokes and, to a lesser extent, to a person's lifestyle, including breast cancer. 
"The increased risk of breast cancer is there regardless of whether you take hormones, though there may be a slight increase [with hormones]," Shepard said. 
She criticized the media's cov­erage of a World Health Initiative study which led many women to abruptly discontinue their thera­pies without consulting a physi­cian -a potentially dangerous decision, she said. 
"There was just this panic," Shepard said. "This is an exam­ple of how data can be manipu­lated in the popular press." 
The Will discontinued a study involving conjugated equine estrogen in 2002 because of fears that it causes adverse car­diovascular effects, particularly strokes. 
"The stroke risk was not one such that people should stop immediately," Shepard said. "Much of the results were not statistically significant." 
She criticized the studies for · only using one form of GStrogen and progesterone to be cost effective and the use of women with a median age of 63 -none of whom had menopausal symp­toms. The study was conducted in this manner to prevent certain groups from realizing they received the placebo after their hot flashes remained. 
"The criticism is if you're trying to prevent something you need to start (prior to when) all the dam­age occurs," Shepard said. 
The current recommendations for hormone replacement thera­py are that it should be used for the relief of moderate to severe vasomotor symptoms. including hot flashes and night sweats. and not as a first choice to treat vagi­nal atrophy and osteoporosis. 
Treating the symptoms individ­ually. as they occur may be a viable option for some. Alternative medicine, including acupuncture, muscle relaxation techniques and relaxation responses, may also prove ctTcc­tive, Shepard said. She warned, however, against the usc of over­the-counter, non-FDA approved products which may lack appro­priate concentrations, be inap­propriately prepared or not achieve what they promise. 
"Your skin cannot extract prog­esterone from wild yam cream," Shepard said, adding that it must be altered in a laboratory first. 
The "Mini Medical School Lecture Series" will continue next Thesday with a presentation by Psychologist Dominic Vachon titled "Transcending Suffering: Spirituality and Maintaining Compassion in the Encounter with Human Pain." 
Contact Andrew Thagard at athagard@nd.cdu 



page4 Wednesday, March 31, 2004
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Center aids SMC seniors in job hunt 
By TERESA NOWAKOWSKI 
News Writer 
As graduation rapidly approaches for Saint Mary's class of 2004, seniors antici­pate donning their caps and gowns and taking one final walk down the Avenue into the future that lies before them. Many look forward to a variety of occupations ranging from service opportunities to full­time salaried careers, said Jeff Roberts, associate director for career opportunities in the Counseling and Career Development Center. 
Roberts said that the CCDC exists for students who "just want to come in to create a plan that is unique to them." The center does not help with specific advising in class, but does answer questions students may have about their degree or how to pursue a job. 
Roberts only works with jun­iors and seniors, while other staff members cater their serv­ices to freshmen and sopho­mores. 
According to Roberts, 50 to 60 percent of Saint Mary's graduates typically decide to move on to full-time positions, 25 to 27 percent pursue post­graduate education, 10 to 15 percent consider one year of voluntary service and a small group chooses occupations in the military or decide to take a year break. 
This year's seniors fall within many of the groups Roberts describes. 
Marianne Orfanos, a history major, is applying to work at the Mercy Home for Boys and Girls in Chicago. Orfanos says she continues to await a response, but that isn't stop­ping her from pursuing what she wants to do. 
"I want to work with kids and I'm happy doing that," she said. 
If the Mercy Home does not work out, Orfanos hopes to set her sights on other service opportunities. 
Chemistry major Stephanie Cunningham plans to continue her education to obtain a mas­ter's and possibly Ph.D. in industry and research develop­ment. Cunningham attributes getting into graduate school to personal recommendations from Saint Mary's professors. 

"[They] are more than just, 'Oh, she turned in her home­work, I don't know who she is,"' she said. 
Mary Beth Broviak, an English writing major, does not have a job following gradua­tion. She is looking for a career in publishing or public rela­tions, but acknowledges that neither field tends to hire in advance. She plans to maintain her job at Victoria's Secret, relocate to a different city and, once there, find a job in the area of her choice. 
Jeanne Berger, a marketing and international business major, has had several job offers including a position in banking management and sales at National City and an offer to teach in Japan. 
"Bu:ainess is really competi­tive, but the market has improved a lot," she said. 
Most of these women agree that Saint Mary's prepared them well for what lies ahead. 
"Having a Saint Mary's degree behind my name is meaningful," said psychology major Yvonne Benson, who is pursuing graduate work at Fairfield University in Connecticut. 
"There are a lot of companies that like to hire SMC women," Broviak said. 
However, Berger feels that while a Saint Mary's degree may be an asset in surrounding states, it may not have the same mark of recognition in others. 
While many seniors said they utilized the eeoc for purposes such as proofreading resumes, finding jobs and locating internships, some suggest improvements for next year. 
"They need someone specifi­cally for the sciences," Cunningham said. "I don't think they know what [the] industry is looking for." 
Contact Teresa Nowakowski at nowa9294@saintmarys.edu 
Experience an evening ofMuslim prayer and meditation as the thirdin a series exploring the beliefs andpractices ofthe world's greatfaith traditions: 
"An Evening ofPrayer from Around the World" 
Sponsored by: Campus Ministry International Student Services andActivities Muslim Student Association Graduate Student Union 

Clover RidgeApartments 
ee~ 
. . 
• . 
. 
' 
Brazill 
.
' 

Learn more about opportunities in Brazil by attending an information session on April 1" 2004 at 5:00pm in 231 DBRT 
. 
•e . 

Application deadIine for Spring ·o5 is 
. May 1, 2004 . 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
•

•8 eeeee•e 



ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 31, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TtiE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Man blows self up in Bolivia 
LA PAZ. Bolivia -An angry miner with dynamite strapped to his chest blew himself up inside Bolivia's congress Tuesday, also killing two police officers. authorities said. 
La Paz Police Chief Guido 1\randia said the man -whose demand for early retirement benefits underscored the grievances of many low-paid miners in Bolivia -stormed into congress around midday and went to a part of the building away from the congressional chambers. 
The miner detonated his vest laced with at least five sticks of dynamite as congressional sncurity police tried to negotiate, killing him­self and fatally wounding two of the police, !\randia said. 
Police had evacuated Congress earlier Tunsday after receiving reports that disgrun­tlnd miners planned to force their way into the building. Pulice had no immediate report on whether the bomber was acting alone or with others. 
Recruit lured with cell phone 
NI\BLUS, West Bank -Islamic militants tried to recruit a 15-year-old as a suicide bomber. at one point locking him in a dark room, but also luring him with clothes. a cell phone and promises of paradise, his family said Tuesday. 
The story of ninth-grader Tamer Khweirah, who was rescued by an alert older brother. underscores the growing use of children by militant groups and has stoked debato over what is permissible in the fight against Israel. 
Tamer is one of four teens arrested by the Israeli military in Nablus in the past week on suspicion they were recruited by militants. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Weapons still not found in Iraq 
WI\SIIINGTON -Still unable to find 
banned Iraqi weapons, the new U.S. 
weapons inspector said Tuesday his strategy 
is to expose Saddam Hussein's intentions 
regarding weapons of mass destruction. 
Charles Duelfer, the CIA's special adviser on the weapons hunt, said the Iraq Survey Group he oversees is looking for a compre­hensive picture, not simply an answer to the question: Were there weapons or not? 
lie did not say how long the effort might take. . 
"We'n~ looking at it from soup to nuts, from thn weapons end to the planning end to the intentions end," Duelfer said at a Capitol llill news conference, nine weeks after he took over the weapons search. 
Mass. debates same-sex marriage 
BOSTON -Gov. Mitt Homney ran into resistance from his attorney general Tuesday al"t1~r arguing that gay marriage should be put on hold for at least another 2 1/2 years now that lawmakers have backed a ban on same-sex weddings. 
Legislators approved a constitutional amendment Monday that would ban gay marriagns while legalizing civil unions. If passed a second time during the next ses­sion, the measure would go before voters in November 2006. 
STATE NEWS 
Indiana receives $44 million 
INDII\NI\I'OLIS -Indiana has received $44 million from the federal government to help equip and prepare police, firefighters and emergency medical workers to respond to terrorist attacks, officials said Tuesday. 
Over the next few weeks, the state will assess where the new money from the Department of llomeland Security can best be spent to support the state's anti-terrorism strategy, said Jonathan Swain, a spokesman for Gov. Joe Kernan. He said oflicials would determine what kind of equipment and train­ing is needed and which areas of the state are at the greatest risk. Some of the areas considered would be ports on Lake Michigan and sensitive installations, Swain said. 
Bush now says Rice will testify 
National Security Adviser will speak to 9/11 commission publicly, under oath 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON President Bush agreed Tuesday to do what he had insisted for weeks he would not: allow National Security Adviser Condoleezza Hice to testify publicly and under oath before an inde­pendent panel investigating the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
The White House also agreed that Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney would answer questions ­together, in private ­before the entire commis­sion. 
The turnabout reflected administration concern that the president's strongest point with voters -his leadership in the war on terror -could be erod­ed if the high-publicity dis­pute over Rice's testimony lingered. 
''I've ordered this level of because I consider it neces­sary to gaining a complete picture of the months and years that preceded the murder of our fellow citi­zens on Sept. 11, 2001," Bush said. 
"Our nation must never forget the loss or the les­sons of September-the 11th, and we must never AP assume that the danger has passed," he said in short remarks in the White House briefing room. He or for Bush and Cheney's and compromised the anti­It waged a vigorous coun­took no questions. private appearance. terror battle afterward by terattack on Clarke's credi­
The commission's Administration officials going to war in Iraq. bility. But the many hours Bepublican chairman, for­said her appearance proba­Opinion polls suggest Rice spent rebutting Clarke mer New Jersey Gov. bly would come at the end support for Bush's handling in the news media only Thomas Kean, welcomed of next week. of the war on terror has raised anew the criticism of the decision and said the Bush is staking much of declined. 1\vo surveys out the White I louse refusal to White House shouldn't be his re-election bid on his this week show the presi­let her testify publicly. concerned that the testimo­performance as president dent's approval ratings on Even Hepublicans began ny would violate the princi­after the 2001 attacks. that issue are now in the saying the administration's ples of executive privilege But former Bush coun­high 50 percent range after argument on separation of or separation of powers. terterrorism adviser being in the mid-60s for powers should be tossed 
"We recognize the fact Richard Clarke -in a best­months. aside. that this is an extraordi­selling book and testimony Although the erosion has Commissioner Slade nary event," Kean said. before the Sept. 11 com­not hurt Bush in one-on­Gorton, a former "This does not set a prece­mission last week -con­one polling against Republican senator from dent." lie said there was tended the president had Democratic rival John Washington state, said he still no time set -either been slow to act against al­Kerry, the White House saw was delighted at Bush's for Rice's public testimony Qaida before the attacks a brewing problem. change of heart. 
President Bush announces Tuesday that National Security Adviser Condoleezza Rice will testify before the commission investigating the Sept. 11 attacks. 
ENGLAND 
Police arrest eight, seize explosives 
Associated Press 
LONDON -Police arrested eight men and seized half a ton of ammo­nium nitrate, a fertilizer compound used in the Oklahoma City bombing, in raids by hundreds of officers ­one of the biggest anti-terrorism operations in Britain since the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Home Secretary David Blunkett, who has warned for months that London is a prime t~rrorist target, said the arrests Tuesday were a "timely reminder" ofthe threat from al-Qaida. But a Muslim leader warned that the headline-grabbing dawn raids risked demonizing the whole community. 
Press Association, the British news agency, said all eight were of Pakistani descent, but police would not comment. 
In a sweep involving 700 officers, eight suspects were picked up in London and towns to the south and west on suspicion of involvement in the "commission, preparation or instigation" of acts of terrorism, London's Metropolitan Police said. 
Authorities recovered the ammoni­um nitrate -often used in terrorist bombings -from a self-storage facility in west London, police said. It was the largest seizure of poten­tial bomb-making material in England since the Irish Republican Army suspended its campaign of vio­lence in 1997. 
"Part of the investigation will focus on the purchase, storage and intend­ed use of that material," said Deputy Assistant Commissioner Peter Clarke, head of the force's anti-ter­rorist branch. 
Clarke said the suspects were British, aged 17 to 32, and were arrested as part of an operation tar­geting alleged international terrorist activity. lie said the operation, which involved five police forces, was not connected to the Madrid train bomb­ings this month or to Irish terrorism. 
Clarke gave no details of the sus­pects' background or religious affili­ation, but he told reporters that "we in the police service know that the overwhelming majority of the Muslim community are law abiding and completely reject all forms of violence." 
Three of the arrests were in Uxbridge and Slough, near Heathrow Airport west of London, and four in Crawley and Ilorley, near Gatwick to the south. 
Wednesday, March 31, 2004

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Join the Conversation! 
soth Anniversary of Brown V. Board of Education 
Monday,April sth, 7:00 -9:00 pm 
ETS Theater in McKenna Hall (CCE Basement) Screening of The Road to Brown followed by a panel discussion, "The Legacy of Brown" 
Rhonda Brown, Director, Office of the Institutional Equity William Carbonaro,Assistant Professor of Sociology Walter F. Pratt,Associate Dean, Law School Richard Pierce, Carl E. Koch Chair of History 
Tuesday,April 6th, 7:00 -8:30 pm 
Coleman-Morse Lounge (I st Floor) Panel discussion led by Notre Dame students:"Desegregation and the South Bend Schools" Frankie Beecroft, Christian McNamara, Mary Murphy, Shan ida Sharp and Sarah Wear ... 


Transition 
continued from page 1 

willing to work with the adminis­tration in tackling the important issues on campus." 
He said that Alcohul Awareness Week will be continued in the future, partly due to the high praise the student government received. 
"Some people have said that they've never seen that type of response come out of the [Board of Trustees]," he added. 
Lao also cited other advances on issues made during the past year, including approval for a gender resource center, renewal of servic­es for students with temporary disabilities, the creation of the Sustained Dialogue program on campus and the organizing of a task force on the Campus Life Council to look into a mandatory course on diversity and social issues. 
The issue of TCE publication was also present within the administration, but it has hit some roadblocks throughout the year. 
A subcommittee was created within the CLC to look into TCE publication, but Lao said there have been additional questions and concerns raised by this com­mittee. However. Lao added that he will continue to act on this issue. 
"We're going to have a TCE res­olution [today] showing student support," Lao said. ''I'm going to continue meeting with administra­tors, and I will include additionally . . . a TCE section in my [Board of Trustees] report." 
There are some issues, Lao said, on which he wished student gov­ernment had given more concen­tration. 
"I think in general, we could have worked on better relation­ships with other offices of the University and built stronger con­tacts with the Office of the Provost and University Relations," he said. "I think we've done a great job building relationships with Student Activities and the Board of Trustees, but we could have done a better job with everyone else." 
Chin also mentioned relation­ship building as something this administration could have worked on more. 
"I think the office could have worked on collaboration with other student government organi­zations," Chin said. 
Some of this relationship build­ing could have fallen to the way­side with the transition of the stu­dent body presidency from former student body president Pat Hallahan to Lao, although both Lao and Chin applaud the way their office handled the transition. 
"I think our transition has been quite smooth," Lao said. "It gave us fresh perspective for the rest of the semester. I don't think we ever slowed down in regard to the 'April attitude' that happens in the office because of that perspective." 
Chin praised the staff for mak­ing the transition a smooth one. 
"We have an amazing staff that pulled through the transition and knew their goals and accom­plished them," she said. "We did­n't have any problems within our office." 
With the next transition -to stu­dent body president-elect Adam Istvan and vice president-elect Karla Bell -only a day away, con­cerns still remain regarding the unfinished Student Union Constitution. The Council of Representatives will meet tonight in order to approve the final changes, according to Lao. 
"We would like [the Constitution] to be done," Lao said, "but the way I view the Constitution in general is that it's a continuous process.... The Student Union will never be done, and we'll continue to improve." 
Contact Maureen Reynold at mreynold@nd.edu 
./'~m. 5••rn., D<Jm-11 .:~.;:rtt 

.Marn rk.ch.-.r D.~ Cil':';l;.i.:. .t..dam ~~LJSl~.r P.rr'->e MurrntJ AJ.an• Sl~r f>a'#!: F..cd~nb-.:lt•.sh AJ,·i.=fl Aal V.:,-c J'".J:oOfie9 .4-x. sJrum.:dx:.'l· ~-e \'{l!~\-j .JI\1J.cwtA.lfdL ~Mt.•J tl,ax~..a~ A.!.Jt<......,ll~.:ln_l.,,'!J L"';l;-Jtlauli.:..l, .e...t .J, cw ritJ9l t~ ...~~ , ..,!.:r...x: ,•\t dt cw Lit;.;.],; l)un Lm-mii..JI ,•\n..-ln:w Sb.pktu-~ l..?.:~~M;iltuttt:y .<\.nrlr~w i<.dJ-~,mtlt t:.d LJ,.-:a ,......n...-IJ-1 II .;s-~,.., l::r~Xf.K: x.ha.::rc:r 1\n>-JY !-mith b ~: fnnJhrud 
1\nl:hc~ Vt!l~~ ~:fi t:r-~e :'->b·tn-:111 I"Ji.. ~41.:1 l"'inn Fn!'_"l..J....t~ ~hh4 ~1!".:'1 C!ll!".:~ £:)7) irii:-..Jcn r-~~:.n .Ktt:-:".7 ~t:w.t.,-rY'n;~ ~-l.··:m QN...-il! .}~ Rilln:l>-;. 
~...,I ~n.::r .Ja.<:<lnJ~ ~ri.-:.n ::;.1.~, Jt-.H c..,IJ.,gh."":r" 
'C-<~~R;:tl~ ~Ht~!2; 
.;:-;Jt"..t"t~ CilrrnJI ~~""' ~,;tr"';.hl"! 
.;.:hri.-i.H;,II Jimh, {:hri.-;. M,,fb j(:Jl'": iX>!J1--. J(ll'": t io_,;Hrr>.an
Chri~ Ttlb:m Cok 1r'i'rl&:f&.!J J(ll'": r..."~Cf:li..~JI JL.">e Fbmc4-cnk
Cok:tJ f.1\.~ ~'til fH"is<.:-.:": Jt.~Wl Gs: l::.t::n t~'l R.<:-':tJnolds. .Joltnckuk !:ian Sc .-it-•Lcf John~ 
.John Hart 
.John t y;-10."1 .J.-).n Kell:e.ti .,J,::.-n tJtor:~;m .k•n ,:~;.n,.. 
.J~-:m V<Y"J\\~y.k JLtlh~ rr.1~ 
JL,SJt I kX"fl 
Ju:::>tin f:.akc 
Ju1:>Lin J l~f 
K..c.:;n willian~ 
K,.;....,{;J.bt:~. 
K(.:vin cL1.J.. 
K.(.;viu 1.)w 111.:ti 
U:c i'V::.:~:t!i(..,. 
L.~Ju ~~Jo11 
Mark .tl;t.....:Ja Mark Ht'i.'l~ 
Mm-i.:&-l<'"<"ii 
t.!.;u-1.: S7r:ndm u....-uk Thorn.., ~-,.tt. ~,rno!H; 
M;lttT.;rn-4 M •• ttr!innni M-<rtt: H~,rngpn M.>ttRri">'L""oCI M.1tt lh;."lmp-.,.:n 
MattV~~~­Matl L.t.~·r!k.:r Michad Ou.iSdJ...--:. Migud Sdf.:lz.:31­
t.tih: Lult.J'.'dn Mih: ~1-='~ Mib: Ii.i~i 
l'l,W. rn.,.;."bc. 
Hi--:\: rnnhm:x~.:1 N._7\;C~~ 
Ni:;k 1-i.,hn 
NK:kK.:J~ Nkkt>..~ti..-h 
!'ikkSonz 
f-';,rt.:ri~ 
1-'0:fL K.ur7 

1-~L M.ot1nn_g 1-blt <Juill 1-~b ic.k. Calla,~,r, l7ibitl11L-rr~n,~ l~tb-irl xb1iilfcr l'.:ltric.k \\t.fd~ [';uJ!_•\crrd± r't-!t:-1': 5.;J>l(lfll!li f't"h-.r x.n..JI 
P.J M.r".'"v(..;tr::J 

P..l Morri,•..: ~· R..-.-kl f'inmnN~ 
Ric.hw,J.-.h 
Rick C;1.vok! 'Rkk •t ~rmt•srb: :R.obt.t.:v::-t"i 
Rq.sn ,.'\nnip 
~nllur.::t 

South !)end ma~ not be Hawaii..... hut whe:n ~pu see ~.<lw li.Ot~our d.1te is1 ~ou·[l 5\'i't.Jr fWJ were. rn 1}-f??,_'lDbt/f r-iake sure ~O;J come fjnd outwhn she is rOMOAAL~V U\prifl} ()t the Grus;h 5arbo:.ue In La.;is Starts at 6pm...and don"t forget ,~our invi"tation! 
~·' lul..-:..hiii~'f) 
~IIH L;~t'lt.JL 
.~fl"".trl± I>.Mmn 
&.an rill<: 
_'":!t:::ar, h H::dtlr.:tll 
."lt-9'!-u:J1 (r.Sirr.lil 
5a-~t~j,.., 
Sk-..x..: k.J·aria 
_".t.r..'ll:: Mahu 
.:.bot-.~ -~ 
1:im~.r r~~n 
~~~ SLu:l . .:.:.:.1 
Rx:W t.t£..r;,n!t.: 
T.:-.m ).1ul-rr'""" lam Samaras km1Sb..........~~•t 1i'11'11 wif:hc..m.1,.1nr• 
loo9 ~•.:l)rldli ·lr(......Qi F:;u 'k. 
T.!j<Trt-:r1L1a V:lnt":l!'!. f).r':i!,u!~ 
Wak.tJ Kkwaja William Jootilisll 
-yria1 C,ll!"-~ ..!6hnf11f Rant-:bno 
Mike Md:::.t..v-~ 1-'l:kl..i\'t.dy ­lbm Mi!V':I"Vino 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Wednesday, March 31, 2004 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 10 381.70 +52.07
Jones ' 
~· Same: • Composite Volu~ 
Z, I 82 18 7 1,306,476,544 

AME.X 1,247.98 +11.43 NASDAQ 2,000.63 +8.06 NYSE. 6,586.63 +83.99 S&PSOO 1,127.00 +4.53 NIKKB(Tokyo) 11,759.97 +66.29 mE. IOO(London) 4,412.80 +6.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.94 -0.26 27.43 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.43 -0.11 25.20 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) 0.00 0.00 12.08 SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) +0.61 +0.02 3.31 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.34 +0.08 23.93 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0. I 0 +0:05 48. 18 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.31 +0.12 39.02 5-YEARNOTE +0.25 +0.07 28.53 3-MONTH BILL +1.08 +0.10 9.33 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE {$/bbl.) +0.80 36.25 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) +4.60 422.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0. 925 I 08.20 
E.xcha Rates 

YEN 105.9 EURO 0.8212 POUND 0.5476 CANADIAN$ 1.307 
IN BRIEF 
Consumer confidence unchanged 
NEW YORK -Consumer confidence was 
stagnant in March amid lingering worries 
about the job market. 
The Conference Board reported Tuesday that its consumer confidence index slipped to 
88.3 this month from a revised 88.5 in February. The February reading was down sharply from 97.7 in January. 
The March reading -the lowest level since October, when it reached 81.7 -was slightly better than analysts had expected, in light of the terrorist bombings in Madrid and the sub­sequent sell-off on Wall Street. 
The Present Situations index, which meas­ures consumers' assessment of current condi­tions, rose to 84.1 from 83.3 in February. The Expectations Index, which gauges their out­look for six months from now, fell to 91 from 91.9. 
"While consumers claimed business condi­tions were more favorable in March than last month, they also claimed jobs were less readi­ly available," said Lynn Franco, director of the Conference Board's Consumer Research Center. 
Treasury offical discusses jobs WASHINGTON -Treasury Secretary John Snow reignited the political argument over 
U.S. companies shipping jobs overseas Tuesday with comments that "outsourcing" was an integral part of a global trading sys­tem. 
Snow's comments in economically hard-hit Ohio were published as President Bush was delivering a speech defending his free trade policies in Wisconsin, a state that has lost 80,000 manufacturing jobs. 
Democrat John Kerry is hoping to capitalize on Americans' concern about an economic recovery in which job growth has lagged badly and the country's manufacturers have suf­fered more than 3 million lost jobs since mid­2000. 
Asked in a newspaper interview whether he thought outsourcing of jobs to other countries made the U.S. economy strong, Snow replied, "It's one aspect of trade and there can't be any doubt about the fact that trade makes ... America strong." 
CORPORATE SCANDAL 
Jury still out in Tyco fraud case 
Ninth day of deliberations closes with ·no decision; Swartz testimony re-read 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Jurors at the Tyco International cor­porate-looting trial began hearing a lengthy read­back Tuesday of testimony from former chief finan­cial officer Mark Swartz about $72 million in bonuses given to him and the company's former CEO. 
The jury had first requested the readback last week. then asked the judge to delay it because they were making progress in the jury room. Deliberations later broke down in infighting, nearly bringing the case to a mis­trial. 
But jurors continued their deliberations for a ninth day, also hearing a brief readback of testimo­ny Swartz gave about a conversation with former chief executive L. Dennis Kozlowski about loan for­giveness. 
Swartz and Kozlowski are accused of looting Tyco of $600 million and spending the money on lavish lifestyles. They are charged with 32 counts of grand larceny, falsifying business records and vio­lating state business laws. They each could face up to 30 years in prison if con­victed. 
The defense argued that ed. Kozlowski did not tes­panel, has been depicted complaints that some the two men earned every tify. in some news accounts as news organizations had dime and that the board of State Supreme Court a holdout for acquittal. named the juror. directors and the compa­Justice Michael Obus said "It is staggering, sir, to Juror No. 4 became the ny's auditors knew about the readback of the understand the venomous object of intense scrutiny the compensation and Swartz testimony would and outrageous state­when some media organi­never objected. likely stretch into ments made about this zations reported that she 
Swartz testified that he Wednesday. juror in that environ­had made an "OK" gesture did not do anything he Earlier Tuesday, a ment," said Charles directed at the defense believed was illegal. He defense lawyer com­Stillman, a lawyer for while walking to the jury said he and Kozlowski plained that a heavily Swartz. box on Friday. received bonuses and had scrutinized juror has been The judge said he would The New York Post fea­their loans forgiven at the subject of venomous consider the matter later. tured a sketch on its many informal company attacks in Internet chat Obus rejected a motion for Saturday cover depicting board meetings at which rooms. a mistrial on Monday that her making a clear "OK" no minutes were record-The juror, No. 4 on the was based on defense gesture. 

ENTERTAINMENT 
Trump casinos in financial trouble 
had a working capital deficit as of deal would result in Trump's removal 
Associated Press 
Dec. 31, 2003', the auditors said. as chief executive officer. Ile would 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. -While The letter, which is dated earlier stay on as chairman. but the compa­Donald Trump basks in the populari­this year, was made public Tuesday ny would be called Trump ty of his runaway hit reality TV show, as part of Trump Hotels' annual International, under the plan. "The Apprentice," the auditors for report filed with regulators. Trump Hotels, which carries $1.8 his Atlantic City casino property are "The company is working on vari­billion in debt, has been unable to raising alarms over the financier's ous alternatives to improve the com­finance major capital improvements real-life debt load. pany's financial resources ... Absent at its Atlantic City properties at a 
Shares of Trump Hotels & Casino the successful completion of one of time when competitors -including Resorts fell 11 percent Tuesday on these alternatives, the company's the new·Borgata Hotel Spa & Casino news of auditors' concerns that, bar­operating results will increasingly -have been luring away gamblers. ring a bailout, the company might become uncertain. These conditions Trump, who initially declined com­not be able to continue as a "going raise substantial doubt about the ment on the auditors' letter Tuesday, concern." company's ability to continue as a noted later that the 11.25 percent 
In a letter to the company's board going concern," the auditors said. notes issued by subsidiary Trump of directors, auditors for Ernst & Last month, Trump announced that Atlantic City Associates will not come Young LLP said that the debt-laden Credit Suisse First Boston had agreed due for another two years. company, which runs three Atlantic to make a $400 million cash infusion "The debt doesn't come due until City casinos and a Gary, Ind., river­into the company in exchange for a May of 2006. That's a long time. We boat, is struggling under stiff compe­controlling stake. are addressing the situation immedi­tition, recurring operating losses and If approved by bondholders, the ately, as we speak," he said. 
-----------, 
page 8 Wednesday, March 31, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
has a unique web site provid­position. located in Pittsburgh. bartend until I have enough ing list serves capable of find­"I feel pretty confident in "I was contacted by some­money to start my own record
Career 
continued from page 1 
and graduate school atten­dance appear to be the norm, Svete said. 
Throughout the year, the Career Center has provided guidance for seniors with career fairs and personal counseling. In all, 1,230 sen­iors have utilized individual guidance sessions, Svete said. 
The 25 seniors members of the "Job Club" learned how to make alumni connections and were provided an online con­tact system. Svete, serving as director for the program, affirmed that many students found skills they learned in the club to be beneficial. Next year, he predicts the group will grow to 100 or more members. 
The Career Center also ensures that Notre Dame remains part of the largest online virtual career fair. The Big East Conference E-Fair offers names of companies and jobs available to students of member schools in the Big East Conference. This E-Fair can be accessed through the Career Center home page and offers information on employ­ment with companies such as AT&T Wireless, Morgan Stanley and Bloomberg. 
On April 15, the Career Center will initiate City Tour, a new program designed to assist seniors in finding jobs and relocating. The program 

RED BULL GIVES YOU WIIINGS. OH, AND AGREAT OPPORTUNITY. 
Red Bull is on the lookout for aStudent Brand Manager (SBM). An SBM is a reliable and motivated student whose responsibilities include brand development on campus, market analysis and having a great time. 
Our expectations from you are the following: 
• 
You're going into your second year or higher at this school. 

• 
You have agood knowledge of when/where things are happening. 

• 
You're interested in marketing and have good communication skills. 

• 
You have an entrepreneurial spirit and are outgoing. 


Does this sound like you? If so, go to: www.redbullu.com. 
RedBulr 
~ 
ENERGY DRINK 

ing jobs for a student's partic­my ability to face challenges, 
ular field within a spe­cific location. The program also helps stu­dents locate alumni in their area. 
Senior Caitlin Willard plans on giv­ing a year of health service to either Providence Volunteer Ministry or Redeemer Ministry Corp. She said the but I feel I will not have an idea of whether or
"In my four years at not I am 
Notre Dame [two] things prepared until I am
have prepared me for the 

put in the
real world -accessible, real world," 
exceptional professors she said. Jackie
and close friends." 

Barrett also received John Kennedy assistance 
senior from the Career Center in discovering her job at 
service fair McKinsey Company, a man­
assisted her in finding this agement consultant firm 
one from McKinsey who looked at online profiles pro­vided by the Career Center," she said. 
Senior John Kennedy will attend civil engineering grad­uate school at Marquette University or Tufts University. 
"In my four years at Notre Dame [two] things have pre­pared me for the real world ­accessible, exceptional profes­sors and close friends," he said. 
Other seniors plan to utilize time after graduation to pur­sue various interests. 
"I am going to move to the middle of Wisconsin, I am going to drive in my VW bus cross country to California where I am going to surf and label," Joe Schmidlin said. 
While Schmidlin's plans don't classify as the norm, Gino Signoracci looks at the education gained in four years at Notre Dame as something to prepare a graduating sen­ior for anything. 
"I believe Notre Dame pre­pares you for the real world as long as you choose a path that makes things interesting for you," Signoracci said. "It is also vulnerable to people who come in with n·arrow minds that can easily go through four years without changing." 
Contact ]en Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 

All our desks come with a view. 
Join us, and we11 put some of the most exciting challenges in business in front of you. Opportunities to work on some of the biggest, most prestigious brands in the global market. And we'll put the knowledge, 
experience and support of the best talent in the industry behind you. Get the big picture. 

page 9

Wednesday, March 31, 2004 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Holy Cross College cauld make your wish come true. 
If you have afriend or relative who would like to be ctoser to you next yaart ell them aboutHoly Cross College -we're right next d<Jor to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. They could complete our Associa.te of Arts conictJum. transfer~ or pursue our Bachelor of Arts In Liberal S1Dd,les degree. 
Give us a call at 239-8400 or e-mail admissiortS@hcc"''ld.ediu. Freshmen and transfer ar>plicants are currently being accapted for Summer and Fall 2004 admission. 
HOLYCROSS I 
COllEGE~ 
I 

Ill Nom: Dame, lrubrara ~ 
f 

P.O. BIJil 308 • Noh Oarne. ladlena 465!56-0SOfll 574-230-&400 •fAX 574-23H323•wwwJtcc-nd.eGJ 
I 

SMC 
continued from page 1 
the Alumni Shadowing Program flou~:ished. The student body also held a celebration for the Feast of the Immaculate Conception to honor the school's patroness. They celebrated again at Midnight Madness when the light song ­with lyrics and music written entirely by students and voted on by the student body-was sung for the frrst time in school history. 
Perhaps the most noticeable change, however, was the first ever Reading Day held on Dec. 12. The concept was first debated in 1992 and formally proposed in 2002 after 89 percent of students polled were in favor. The day ryserved for 
Now Hiring College Students! 
Cold Stone Creamery See Classiiieds or apply online at 'W'NW.cd.dstonecrearnery.com, Or contact Ryan Emmer at 277-4912 
students to prepare for final exams was widely appreciated across Saint Mary's campus and will take place again before the spring semester concludes. 
Jablonski-Diehl said that the incoming administration of White and Moran is fully qualifind for the positions from which she and Brown are leaving. 
"The hard part about turning BOG over to new leadership is that I am still intensely interested in making student gow~rnment work for all of the women here. They deserve nothing else," Jablonski­Diehl said. "The difficulty is eased by knowing that the new BOG lead­ership and members are very com­petent, smart, and as intense about student affairs as I was. Saint Mary's marches on." 
Looking back on her time leading the student body, Jablonski-Diehl seems to have few regrets. 
"Serving on Saint Mary's Student Government Association has been one of the most meaningful ex peri· ences of my life. It is with pride that I hand over the reigns to the next administration," she said. "I am proud of everything Sarah and I have accomplished, and I can honestly look back and say that I gave it everything I had." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
~UNIVERSITY OF 

Spring 2004
WNOTREDAME 
I 
Dear Undergraduate Students, 

The Institute ror Latino Studies (ILS) offers Notre Dame undergraduates the minor in Latino studies. Latino studies is a field of academic inquiry that rigorously examines the historical and contemporary experiences of Latinos in the context of American society and its institutions. Latinos include people who trace their heritage to Mexico, Puerto Rico, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, and Central and South America. 
In addition to providing opportunities for focusing intellectual inquiry on specific groups (e.g.. Mexicans or Cubans) Latino studies aims to give students-both Latinos and non-Latinos-and scholars from diverse disci­plines a context for exploring the historical, literary, social, economic, religious, and political experiences of this vastly heterogeneous population. Students who pursue the minor will have the opportunity to be at the forefront or the study or one of the twenty-first century's most significant demographic changes in the United States. 
As the Latino diaspora evolves, so docs the field of Latino studies, which recognizes the value of a compamtive, cross-border perspective for arriving at a more in-depth understanding of Latinos' historical roots and multi­ethnic heritages. It promotes research and analyses of new issues such as emerging transnational communities, changing immigration patterns, remittances, and cultural flows between Latinos in the United States and the Ca­ribbean and Central and South America. While the emphasis is on domestic Latino communities, the discipline's focus inevitably becomes internationalized when we consider globalization, immigration and border issues. 
Minor in Latino Studies 
LEARN about Latinos in the context of American society: spirituality, social action, ethnicity, globalization, art, culture, demography, immigration, and public policy issues. 
PREPARE for a myriad of professional settings and to serve an increasingly diverse society. 
TRAIN ror graduate and proressional schools and an array of opportunities at the rederal, state, and local levels or government, nonprofit organizations, and the private sector. 
FIFTEEN CREDIT HOURS 

NO LANGUAGE REQUIREMENT 
OPEN TO ALL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS 
You arc invited to join us in our open house/convocation on Monday April 5th at 5:00P.M. in 212 McKenna Hall. You may also contact me by stopping by my office in 250 McKenna Hall, by leaving a message at 631­0940, or by email at ymarino@nd.edu. 
All the best, 
Yolanda Lizardi Marino, Director Academic Affairs, ILS 


Latino Studies 
MCOB 
continued from page 1 
college, said that he did observe a slight discrepancy in the numbers of men and women in his declared major. "I am a [declared) accounting major, and I do notice a few more males than females," he said. "I picked accounting because it's the major that seemed to come naturally to me. I am very analytical and I like numbers." 
Frey offered a possible reason for the male majority in most of the business college. 
"I think there are more men in business because business has always been portrayed as 'a man's world,"' he said. "The mold needs to be broken. but it's hard to change a stereotype that has been around for years." 
Angela Celis is one of those breaking the stereotype. The sophomore described herself as a "numbers person" and plans to major in accounting. However, she has had an important female role model in her life -her mother is also an accountant. 
First-year advisor Holly Martin, for one, is optimistic about the presence of women in the College. 
"The dean of the business col­lege is a woman [Carolyn Woo)," she said. 'That not only says that you can go into business, but that you can be a leader." 
Martin said she has observed a high level of interest in the busi­ness college from both men and women in the First Year of Studies 
"Women go into business with­out batting an eye," she said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
1OOfooff 
of every purchase ... over$10 Open Daiy 1Qam-8pm 

l813 South Bend Ave. l Located nthe sane pa:e "' llet.\re1 the llu1s! 
t574.993.0310 °574.234.8730 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, March 31, 2004 
The (dis)United Nations 


The United Nations needs another reality check. Eleven of the 15 mem­hers of the U.N. Security Council voted in favor of a Palestinian-backed, Algerian-proposed resolution Thursday, con­demning Israel's 
Joe Licandro

assassination of Hamas "spiritu­al" leader Ahmed Yassin. Three The Licandro abstained, while Non-Factor the lone veto 
came, of course, from the United States, who, as one of the five permanent members on the Security Council, effectively blockect this nonsensical resolution from pass­ing. 
Upon first glance, the resolution might not seem so absurd because extrajudicial executions are in violation of international law. But in this case, when the language of the resolution conveniently failed in any way to con­demn Hamas and the countless "extra­judicial executions," or better-termed maniacal terrorist bombings, the organization carries out every day, it is impossible for any member of the U.N. Security Council to have justified voting for such an egregiously slanted meas­ure. Just days before the Yassin assas­sination, a suicide bomber in Ashdod killed 10 innocent Israelis. Where were the peace-loving Algerians then? 
Well, they certainly weren't drafting a U.N. resolution condemning the Palestinian Authority's less-than con­certed effort to stopping Hamas terror­ists living under their watch. How could Algeria and the nations who voted with them treat an evil terrorist organization like Hamas as a political body equivalent to the nation of Israel? How could they even begin to take a man like Hamas political leader Mohamad Ghazal seriously, who, according to a Reuters article Friday, referred to the United States as "the chairman of the axis of evil in the world" and said the U.N. Security Council veto was "Israel's green light to carry out assaults and crimes." Talk about the pot calling the kettle black. 
On the very same day that these com­ments were made, Israeli soldiers gunned down two would-be Hamas frogmen snipers, who swam across the Mediterranean attempting to launch a sneak attack on the Jewish community of Tel Kateifa. But I guess Mr. Ghazal does not classify terrorist attacks like these committed against Jews and Americans as assaults and crimes. 
Here's something those countries who voted for the resolution ought to consider: assassinating a terrorist without so much as touching a hair on an innocent bystander's head is not the same as blowing up a bus full of school children. Yassin, one of the master­minds of the 1993 U.S. Trade Center bombing, was a man responsible for the deaths of hundreds of innocent people, including his own. Israel has every right to defend its security against animals like this. There was nothing tragic about Yassin's death. The world is a safer place without him. 
According to an Associated Press article written Thursday, Nasser al­Kidwa, the Palestinian representative to the United Nations, had the gall to say after the vote, "Israeli policies are not part of the battle against interna­tional terrorism; it's part of the prob­lem of creating terrorism. Israel's actions have escalated tensions in Gaza and the region, and could set back our effort to resume progress towards peace." If such a comment does not reveal the Palestinian Authority's total unwillingness to crack down on Hamas and curb terrorism, then does al-Kidwa need to actually come out and say, "The Palestinian Authority will not stop Hamas and other radical terrorists organizations akin to them because we secretly agree with their ultimate objective of wiping Israel off the face of the earth" for the U.N. to recognize Palestinian hypocrisy? Taking it one step further, what about the entire Arab world's hypocrisy? For if Algeria, Egypt, Syria and the rest of their Arab brothers wanted peace they would not remain so conspicuously silent after terrorist bombings carried out by Muslim extremists not only against Israel but the United States and pre­dominantly Christian nations in Europe as well. They also would not allow their national newspapers equivalent in circulation to the The Wall Street Journal or The New York Times to print hate-filled lies about these same places as a way to deflect attention from the the shortcomings of their own governments, none of which take the form of legitimate democracy. The truth hurts sometimes. A combination of severe economic equality, corrupt governments, intolerant religious extremism and a crippling "blame everyone else but ourselves" mentality is the root cause of the Arab world's problems, not any Israeli or American policy. 
As an international governing body, the U.N. is supposed to be even-hand­ed, unbiased and impartial at all times. One-sided resolutions such as these are clearly not in line with this mission. By rightfully wielding its veto power, the United States showed once again why it has replaced the U.N. as the objective leader of the world. As John Negroponte, the U.S. Ambassador to the U.N., bravely pointed out before last Thursday's vote, "This Security Council does nothing to contribute to a peaceful settlement when it condemns one party's actions and turns a blind eye to everything else occurring in the region." 
Even Britain, the U.S.'s staunch ally in the war on terror and true diplomat­ic friend in every sense of the word, dropped the ball on this one, electing to abstain rather than veto. In the wake of the U.N. vote, it might seem as if the 
U.S. is the only nation with any moral backbone left. But that would be gross­ly unfair to Australia, who decried the unfair resolution. It's just unfortunate Australia is not a permanent member of the Security Council. They certainly should be. After losing 88 citizens among the 202 innocent people who died in the horrific Bali bombing on Oct. 12, 2002, Australia understands what the war on terror is all about. 
Joe Licandro is a senior political sci­ence major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted atjlicandr@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofthe Observer. 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
National defense vs. education? 
I want to congratulate Roque Strew on another persua­Strew? Roque's peers are serving and dying on the streets sively shrill diatribe in the March 29 issue of The Observer. of Afghanistan and Iraq for the cause of freedom and 
I get it now. President Bush proposes and passes the No democracy while he whines about the size of Pell Grarits. I Child Left Behind Act with an overwhelming bipartisan have a simple question for Roque: Why is it that the more majority in Congress and whose purpose is to close the we spend federal and state money on education, the more achievement gap between rich and poor students in the cost of education goes up? Who cares? I am taking to America's more than 89,599 public schools, and he is an the streets right now so that Roque does not have to pay a axe murderer for doing it. Oh yes, and President Bush also dime for his fancy private school education. Join me, all you increases federal funding for education more than 59.8 apathetic moderates, because Roque Strew says so. percent between the years of 2000 and 2003. He only increased funding for education 60 percent, while Clinton Brendan O'Connor did nothing for eight years. junior 
Come on, Bush, what's more important? National defense Keough Hall ' and the war on terrorism or "free" education for Roque March 30 
OBSERVER POLL 

Do you think student government has made significant accomplishments this year, and do you think next year's will do better? 
Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"I think there are only three things America will be known for 2,ooo years from now when they study this civilization: the Constitution, jazz music and baseball. " 
Gerald Early author 

.----------------------------------------------­THE ()BSERVER 
IEWPOINTWednesday, March 31, 2004 
page I I 
A different kind of 'Madness' 
It's no sm:ret that for the past two weeks. our nation's elliciency has plumnwt1~d to Communism-lik1~ llwels thanks to a widespread, obsessive-compulsive addiction to the NCAA tournament. During the lirst-round weekday games, classrooms appearPd unr.haraeteristil:ally empty. oflke desks were littered with doodll~d-on brackets and rumor has it llilary Clinton even forced Congress to temporarily sus­rwnd deliberation in order to watch twelfth-seeded Manhattan knock oiT lirth-sellded Florida so that she wuld playa-hate on Florida Senator Bob Graham. Joey Falco 
Clearly, America is infatuated with tournaments. Wlwtlwr it's the unparalleled raw emotion of watching a favorite team emerge victorious in the linal seconds of a Forty Ounces game, tlw sheer excitement of witnessing a seemingly­ofFalco impossible upset or 1w1~n the prospect of winning both cash and bragging rights for lilling out the most accurate brackd in a pool. only a tournament can cause both a New York lawyer and a Montana farmer to simultaneously scream at a referee from their sofas for calling a charge against Zakee Wadood of East Tennessee State. 
or even with the presidential-looking John Hdwards. Unfortunately, Kerry's momen­tum had become irreversible. and America's 1>1~mocrats found Uwrnselv1~S stuck with a guy whose campaign was partly funded by a hot dog eondirlll~nt. 
llow. then. can America spice up Uw primary process enough to altrad tlw eon­slant attention of the electorate'! A tournament. of course! The process would prob­ably proceed as follows: 
Sometime around Christmas, CNN would publish a printable bracket complnt1~ with seedings of' the top Democratic cont1H1ders. This past year's tournanwnt would probably have involvnd Dean taking honw tlw numlwr onn seed, selling him up to play the winrwr of the play-in primary b1~tween eighth-seeded Dennis Kudnil:h and ninth-seeded Carol MosPiey Braun. On the other sid1~ of tlw bracket. K1~rTy, the number two seed. would have started with a match-up against Arnerir.a's favoritl~ underdog, seventh-s!H~cll~d AJ Sharpton. Jn the more !wenly matclwd head-to-Jwad primaries, third-seeded Dick Gephardt would have squan~d oil' against sixth-seedml John l~dwards. and fourth-seeded Wesley Clark would have duked it out manoa 
mano with lifth-seed1~d .Joe Li1~bm·man. 
Just imagine the buzz that would have w~rwratnd amidst tho 
With this inexplicable phenomenon in mind. I see no reason American public as they furiously lilkd out brackets with tlwir why this passion for upsets, brackets and all things tourna-favoritn picks to enter into ol'lice pools or Yahoo! online fanta­rm~nt eannot be transferred to other aspecl<> of life that 
sy presidential primary tournamenL-;. You can IW1111 pictun~ everyday Americans simply do not lind interesting enough the conversations. to spend hours glued to the television watching. namely, "Should I go with tho Sharpton over K1~rry upsdT' "No the Dmnocratic presidential primaries. way! That primar·y is being playml in Massachusetts' 
Sure, the results of these events were of the utmost Sharpton donsn 't stand a chance against Kerry's Jwnw importance and always seemed to merit the front page crowd!" "Well, Anderson Coop1~r likes Edwards ov1~r of rwxt-day newspapers. hut who can admit to having Gephardt, so I'm going with him on that one." "Nola gone to such extn~nws as checking live exit polls from bad pick. Edwards has a great HPI. So who do you have tho Iowa caucuses on their cell phone in the middle of in your Final Four?" ''I'm going with Kerry, l·:dwards, chemistry class'! And how many people skipped classes Dean and Lieberman. with D1~an pulling it o!T in tlw on Sup1~r Tuesday to constantly monitor the CNN news end." ticker for Jive updates of .John Edwards' voting totals in March Madness? More like Presidential Primary California'! Most likely, unless your Deadhead parents Psychosis! By setting up tho primaries as a tournanwnl­thought it would bn funny to name you Wolf Blitzer, you did style series of head-to-head rnatchups, interest in the cur­not go to these seemingly insane ends that are actually quite rently tiresome election process will increase a thousand-fold. customary in Uw world of college basketball. The same allurc~ that draws fans to NCAA basketball -bnu:knts. 
In morn practical terms, one only needs to look at the peculiar pat­tern of' voter preference during the primaries to realize that some changes should be in order. For months, the raw idealistic nature of Howard Dean's cam­paign mounted him securely atop the lield of contenders. only to have all that come crashing down because a few corn farmers in Iowa were not particularly fond of his personality. Likewise, in nearly every state primary that followed, voters seemed to nonchalantly jump onto the John Kerry bandwagon because or his Iowa success, even though many Americans never truly clicked with Kerry as they had with Dean 
upsets. buzzer-beaters, Bill Haf'tery and gambling-will certainly ~~lidt the same response in the world of American politics. Now if only we could get the University of' Texas eheerleaders on board ... 
Joey Falco is a freshman Spanish and political scilmce major. /lis column appt•ars everg other Wednesday. 1/e can be contacted atjfalco@nd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Growing 
• 
numbers of 
•
women1n engineering 

The article on women in engineering published on March 29 wonderfully conveyed many of the positive things the College of Engineering is doing to increase our numbers of women stud!mts and faculty. 
Drawing on perhaps an outdated source, the article indi­cated that the College has only f'ive female faculty when, in fact, we currently have 10 female faculty in the three departments mentioned. Moreover, we will add at toast two female faculty this fall in our other two departments, one in electrical engineoring and a senior female faculty mernlwr in aerospace and mechanical engineering who will leave a chaired position at Cal-Berkeley to pursue her rnsearch interests here. Snveral other offers have also been extended to outstanding female candidates, and we hope to continue to increase the proportion of women on our faculty. 
I am proud of the leadership and initiative shown by our doan, Frank lncropera, and by evnry dnpartment in the Collegn of Engin1~ering on the issue of hiring fnmale facul­ty. We arc now at the national average for female engi­neering facully members (around 10 percent) and we con­tinue to work hard to bring moro women into our ranks. 
Cathy Pieronek director Women's Engineering Program March 29 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 





THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
Wednesday, March 31, 2004 
page 12 

Virtual ninjas, Jatn 
Scene's video game reviewers take a look 
Photo courtesy of amazon.com 


Mark: Following the tradition of games that don't make it easy for the player, "NFL Street" will often cause the playe-r to go off on a string of words that would make any mother blush. Similar to the "NFL Blitz" series, "Street" has a faster paced, arcade style game play that purists may scoff at. Those purists might be making a mistake. 
"Street" is a rather deep football game for those that enjoy football, but can't quite get into the Madden or NCAA games. However, there are many 

NFL Street 
elements of "Street" that football fans will enjoy, such as the building of a team from the bottom up. Building a team can get quite frustrating however as the season starts with average Joes off the street making up your team while your opponents are set NFL teams. A comparison of the stats reveal that your team is about half the skill level of theirs. 
However, once the initial hurdle is passed, the game becomes quite enjoy­able, as your team is able to not only 
Mark: Finally, a game made by old school garners for old school garners. Garnes nowadays are getting easier than they were in the past. Am I the only one that remembers games that gave you three continues, marginal lives and expected you to defeat an army of super cyborg/ninja/zombie/squirrels? If one died, it was back to the start. Now, people tend to respawn in the same place with only a marginal penalty, or they can quick-load their last save. 
"Ninja Gaiden" uses the checkpoint sys­tem of saves with the checkpoints spaced far apart. This forces garners to move with caution, and actually contemplate their actions carefully. A quick warning ­this game is not for those easily frustrat­ed. Many of the levels are designed with­out the survival of a lone ninja in mind. 
One particular area early in the game stands out as an example. After moving with less than ninja stealth through an army of soldiers armed with guns and rocket launchers, our hero encounters a tank. This tank is not of the ordinary 
Ninja Gaiden 
Tecmo 
Available for xBox and Nintendo NES 
Mark's Rating: A+ 
Trevor's Rating: A 


REVIEWS B y MARK B E M E 
Ninja Gaiden 
video game variety that falls apart after being tapped a few times. This one with­stands explosion after explosion, and is more than able to end one ninja's life. 
After fighting a grueling battle, one would think a little break would be due. But no, as soon as the first is defeated, a garage door lifts open and out pops a sec­ond with no save point in between. Then, immediately following the two tanks comes an attack helicopter. This almost relentless slew of challenges could frus­trate any gamer. 
However, just because it is frustrating does not mean it is impossible. This game will challenge you often, cause cursing even more often, but overcoming those challenges will bring a sense of accom­plishment that hearkens back to the old NES days. 
Trevor: Beautiful graphics and tight gameplay accentuate this X-Box exclu­sive platformer in the sea of mediocre knockoffs of the popular "Devil May Cry" series for the Playstation 2. The controls are quick to learn, but diffi­cult to master. After watch­ing stunning aerobatics and ninja quick reflexes destroy soldiers and tanks, I jumped into the game only to be destroyed by the com­puter within 10 minutes. Though the path of a ninja may look fantastically fun and dangerous, complete mastery of the many moves and weapons is necessary to make any forward 
progress. 
Strategy is key and foresight a must if you want to see the end of the game. Simple button mashing and good luck is not enough to overcome a dark army. This being true, precision and timing are key, as any ninja can attest. The weary gamer should tread lightly, for "Gaiden" is not for the faint of heart. 
This third-person ninja action draws on the strengths of its predecessors. The famed gameplay of "Devil May Cry" is brought to an entirely new level, with a combat system comparable to "Soul Calibur II," and mind bending environ­mental puzzles reminiscent of those found in "The Legend of Zelda" series. 
"Ninja Gaiden" is a must have for the hardcore gamer, and something to be strongly to be considered by anyone else looking for impressive and challenging gameplay. If I could have only buy five games this year, "Ninja Gaiden" would be one of them. 

take on, but also stomp those of the NFL on a routine basis. Almost all of the aspects of your team can be cus­tomized, from their running stats to their dress apparel. 
True, this game does branch off of the Madden series in many areas such as the aforementioned arcade style of game play. The cartoonish look of the players may turn off some. However, all the players are recognizable and move fluidly. One thing this game may have above Madden would be the multi-play­er option. 
It's fast paced sheer lunacy disguised as a football game. Never before seen in afootball game, there are walls on a field that introduce a new element into the game. A big running back may end up charging the length of the field, bouncing off the wall while staying on his feet. 
Trevor: Definitely a game to challenge your friends with. Not only can you run a pass for a 

Customizing every individual player on your roster is half the game's chal­lenge. From names to apparel to height and offensive and defensive skills, you affect their playing ability with each change. Upgrading your player's skills is done through defeating opposing teams while satisfying certain require­ments and gaining development points. Then comes the dilemma as to either making your receiver taller to better his chance of grabbing a high pass, or increasing the quarterback's weight to make his run power more effective. With all the customizing, the team you start off with is something you can· truly call your own, which makes stomping your best friend that much more satisfy­ing. 
As a single player game, "Street" can be insanely difficult with cheap artificial intelligence, but is rewarding in the end. As a party game, this is a must for any football fan. 
70-yard touchdown, but with the unique style points feature, your can rub it in their face by initiating one of several player taunts (my favorite is the "Figure Hate") while racking up credit to the unlock the infamous "Gamebreaker" option (soupping up your players until there is a turnover or a touchdown). 
NFL Street 
Electronic Arts 
Available for xBox, PlayStation2 and GameCube Mark's Rating: A­Trevor's Rating: B 
THE OBSERVER 
-

CENE
Wednesday, March 31, 2004 
page 13 

s Bond and beyond -­
t some of the hottest new games of2004 
D E R F E R AN D TREVOR G A S S 
Breakdown 
Trevor: Before you start breakin' it down with this innovative first-p-erson shooter/fighter for the X-Box, you will want to break out an industrial size bot­tle of Dramamine. Not only does the action throw you through burning sky­scrapers and across alien planets, but you might find that your travels will send you to the bathroom as well due to the nauseating camera motion. 
The "Breakdown" storyline is fast­paced, and though it is nothing we 

haven't seen before -you play as an amnesiac on a quest to save the planet and discover your identity -it manages to remain engrossing This makes up for the repetitive play through the first half of the game. It may be intentional to allow garners time to become accus­tomed to the realistic viewpoint's disori­entating gameplay and for them to nail down the numerous alien crushing melee combos that are an integral part of the game given that it is insanely hard. 

James Bond 007: Everything or Nothing 
on the market right now. From driving to flying to free-falling off the face of a cliff, there are not many things that have ever been in a Bond movie that does not occur in this game. 
However, even though it does a good job imitating various genres, each one feels rather shallow in its own right. All the segments excluding the third-person shooting feel kind of shallow, as if they ran out of time while designing them. The car, nor the bike control quite right, and the cliff diving segment was an exercise in frustration. , 
The multiplayer was great, well, the co­op part was. A lesser third-person arena based fighter has replaced the multiplayer first-person shooter. Fans of "Powerstone"· for the Sega Dreamcast will know what I mean by that. Odd Job also makes a return as a playable death match charac­ter, but due to the new nature of the mul­tiplayer death match, his diminutive stature is no longer a benefit. 
It was awesome to see the likeness and voices of famous actors used in the game, particularly that of the exceptional Willell'T" Dafoe. It's too bad this was just a game with no movie backing it. It would have been great to see Dafoe as a Bond villain. 
Trevor: With fighting games taking on the first-person perspective, James Bond jumps into the third-person arena for the first time in "Everything or Nothing." Gameplay is reminiscent of the Playstation 2's "Metal Gear Solid" and Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell series (check out "Pandora Tomorrow"). "Everything or Nothing" opens with a bang in typical Bond style -having you rappel from the top of a power plant, drive your Aston Martin in a high speed pursuit, duke it out with the ever popular Bond nemesis Jaws in hand to hand combat and destroy an enemy base after a chase down with in a helicopter. 
All these action-packed sequences are found within the first few stages of the game. Bond takes the gaming experience to another level with its cinematic story­line featuring actors Pierce Brosnan, Willem Dafoe and singer . Mya. "Everything or Nothing" introduces a new btmchmark in movie-like gaming. 
James Bond 007: Everything or Nothing 
Electronic Arts 
Available for xBox, PlayStation2 and GameCube Mark's Rating: B+ 
Trevor's Rating: A 


Bond as a multiplayer game shines as well, with its cooperative option throwing you and your best friend into a supple­mentary storyline that requires direct cooperation between players. If you own a Playstation 2, you will be able to engage in online gameplay. Since communication is necessary, a headset is essential to relay information. 
Gameplay wise, "Everything or Nothing" is in essence, a duck and shoot game. The lock on aiming system isn't perfect when the computer refuses to target the desired enemy or throws the camera around into awkward angles, which can be problem­atic in tight hallways or hazardous areas. Shooting the enemy consists of holding one button to aim and the other to fire, something very reminiscent to Koei's Winback or Namco's kill switch. 
"Everything or Nothing" is a game wor­thy of the James Bond name. It delivers in the action and storyline elements and graphically, Bond has never looked better. 
Since "Everything or Nothing" is on all three major gaming systems, there is no excuse for any respectable gamer to not own a copy. 
Mark: Bond certainly likes to throw a lot at the average gamer. PossiblY. the best Bond since "Goldeneye," "Everything or Nothing" is certainly the most differentiated game out 

A downfall in "Breakdown" comes from the targeting system that automati­cally locks on enemies. This is made into even more of a chore given the camera becomes fixed on the enemy, so don't be surprised when you find yourself caught up on obstacles outside of your view. The combat mechanics could have been more polished as well. 
You will find that the main weapons in the game are neither effective nor accu­rate and that many of your hand-to-hand combos will end up short of their mark. The fighting itself is repetitious and can quickly turn into a tedious game of block and strike. When you break it all down, "Breakdown" is a solid title worth look­ing into. Rent before buying. 
Mark: Breaking down "Breakdown" can often break down your tolerance for breaking Alien neck Insanely hard? More like insanely cheap. 
"Breakdown" is exactly what every gamer has been waiting for. Finally, here is a game that truly simulates the sensa­tion of deep-sea fishing in stormy weather. Too bad it actually has nothing to do to tall buildings. It's a shame all of these environments are plain and almost ugly when compared to the other games out there. The corridors in the burning building, pre-and post-explosion. are almost all identical with the only indica­tion of where to go being the doors witJ... green access plates as opposed to red. For a game as innovative as this is sup-­posed to be, not much is actually new. 
The story, although cool, feels recycled. The human bad guys feel lifted out of the superior "Half-Life," while the aliens seem to have traces of the Borg from Star Trek. The only thing truly innovative is the fact that it is a first-person fighter. 
However, that alone could have redeemed the game slightly if Namco had spent a little more time revising it. Too much motion and routine actions further diminish what may have been a revolutionary title. I know it's supposed to be immersive, but why must I bend over and manually pick up, examine, and pocket every single item I come across? 

with fishing. On a positive 
Breakdown
note, due to the nausea breaks that people will be 
Namco
forced to take while playing this game, it will last awhile 
Available for xBox 
and garners may feel like they got their money's 
Mark's Rating: C
worth. Mentioned earlier were 
Trevor's Rating: 8­
the amazing variety of envi­ronments, from alien worlds 

Wednesday, March 31, 2004
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
-'JILB 
Devil Rays beat jet-lagged Yankees in Tokyo 

Associated Press 

TOKYO -Fans in the Tokyo Dome seemed surprised. The ones back in New York must have been shocked. 
On the other side of the world, playing when the rest of baseball was in bed, the New York Yankees looked lost. 
Jose Cruz Jr. hit a tying home run that sparked a comeback, Tino Martinez put away his for­mer team with his 300th career homer and the lowly Tampa Bay Devil Rays roughed up Mike Mussina for an 8-3 victory Thesday over the Yankees in the major league season opener. 
People back home got up in the middle of the night to see this? 
"Hopefully, it's 5 a.m. and not many people were watching," Alex Rodriguez said, thinking of when the game began, New York time. 
The team that dominates the AL East couldn't do much in the Far East, getting outhit 15-7 and playing sluggishly in the field. 
A-Rod's first game in pin­stripes won't be remembered fondly in the Bronx. He took called third strikes his first two times up before doubling and 
popping out. But he did make 
three sparkling defensive plays 
at third base, the position he 
switched to when Texas traded 
him to New York last month. 
Hideki Matsui had the first hit of the major league season. a first-inning double in front of the fans who adore their home­grown hero, and he scored· on ·Jason Giambi's two-run homer to left. Gary Sheffield also had a checked-swing RBI double in his 
first game for New York. 
Aside from that, the defending 
American League champions 
seemed jetlagged against the 
younger Devil Rays. 
"We don't look like we're that 
alive, yet," said Mussina, who 
hasn't slept well since making 
the 7 ,250-mile trip last week. 
"We need a little life, and we just 
didn't have it." 
At the sushi stands and sake 
bars in the Big Egg, the talk was 
about baseball's most famous 
club. Yet after circling halfway 
around the globe, all those All­
Stars fell flat against one of 
baseball's least-known teams. 
''I'm sure that there are a lot 
of people driving to work right 
now saying, 'Who are those 
guys?"' Devil Rays owner Vince 
Naimoli said. 
In the second opener played by major league teams in Japan, Mussina looked as if he would have rather been back home in Montoursville, Pa. Trying to become the 1OOth pitcher with 200 wins, he gave up a broken­bat, two-run single to Toby llall in the fourth. then let Cruz lie it 3-all in the sixth with his homer. 
Martinez, Julio Lugo and Toby Hall followed with consecutive doubles for a 5-3 lead. chasing Mussina, who took the loss. 
Paul Quantrill got three outs on three pitches to end the inning, but left after his fourth pitch, when Hodriguez banged into his right knee trying to field Hocco Baldelli's bunt single lead­ing off the seventh. 
Felix Heredia let the game spin away. making a wild pickoiT throw for a two-base error before his first pitch. then allow­ing a single to Aubrey Huff and a · two-run homer to Martinez, playing his first game for his hometown team. 
"Obviously, to beat the Yankees is great," said Martinez, who helped New York win four World Series titles from 1996­
00. "The fans here love them, but we made them cheer for us, too." 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Underdog Minnesota vvins again, advances to Final Four 
Associated Press 
NORFOLK, Va. -Lindsay Whalen and Minnesota ended Duke's championship dreams. 
The seventh-seeded Golden Gophers got 27 points from Whalen and 20 points and 18 rebounds from Janel McCarville to oust the top-seeded Blue Devils 82-75 in the Mideast Regional final Thesday night. 
Minnesota already had bounced second-seeded Kansas State and third-seeded Boston College on its improbable run to the Final Four. 
The Golden Gophers led most of the way and answered every . :Duke rally. 
"Coach [Pam] Borton said the most aggressive team was going to win and that's the way we've played all year," Whalen said. "Tonight we just got a few things to go for us and we just played loose and played together." 
Duke (30-4) was turned away in 
..,.its last bid to win a championship for All-American Alana Beard and fellow senior Ieiss Tillis. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Beard scored just 10 points on 4­for-14 shooting and was in tears as the game ended. 
"You guys don't understand how it feels to go out there every single year thinking you're goirtg to win the national championship and it doesn't go your way," Tillis said. "It hurts. It's really painful." 
The Blue Devils had reached the Final Four the last two sea­sons, but lost in the semifinals both times. 
Tennessee 62, Stanford 60 
Tasha Butts scored in the lane with 1.7 seconds left and Tennessee beat Stanford on Thesday night to advance to the Final Four for the third straight year. 
Butts, guarded by All-American Nicole Powell, spun to her right and threw up a right-hander, which banked off the glass and fell through. Two nights earlier, Butts hit two free throws after a disputed end-of-game call to lift the Lady Vols past Baylor in the Midwest Regional semifinals. 
After the basket Thesday, Butts ran back on defense, slapped the floor with both hands and got a bear hug from Shyra Ely as Tennessee coach Pat Summitt called a timeout. 
Powell caught a long inbounds pass on the right wing and heaved a 3-point attempt toward the basket, but it banged off the rim and out, and she exhaled in disappointment. 
Tennessee had possession after Butts missed a layup from the right block and Stanford's Chelsea Trotter knocked the rebound out of bounds under the basket with 
21.7 seconds left. 

Butts ran the clock down to 8.4 seconds before Summitt signaled for a timeout to set up the final play. 
Butts led Tennessee with 14 points, Ely scored 12 and LaToya Davis had 10 for Tennessee (30­3), which advances to play Southeastern Conference rival LSU in the Final Four on Sunday. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all clas:oifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Want high-energy, enthusiastic and out-going college students for brand WANTED new 
Super-Premium Ice Crearn shop in Wanted -Old paintings, especially town. Flexible hours, fun environ-Indiana & Notre Darne (574) 286-ment, family 9359 owned business. Contact Ryan DOMUS PROPERTIES ... HAS A 8 BEDROOM HOUSE. .. 2 BEDROOM HOUSE ... 2 BEDROOM DUPLEX ... AND THREE 3 BEDROOM CON­DOS AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004­2005 SCHOOL YEAR. ... WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO LEASE FOR 
Emmer (ryanemmer@hotmajl com) THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR. .. 
_.•Catholic family offering fulltime or call 277-4912 or summer childcare opportunity to apply online at www.cold-CONTACT KRAMER AT OFFICE care for 4 school age children, ages stonecreamery.com 234-2436 OR CELL 315-5032 FOR 5 to 11, Scottsdale Mall area, SHOWINGS Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4 bdrms close to NO. Spring, summer or fall. 235-3655. 
Oakhill Condo, 2-3 bdrm, 2 bath, 
one block from NO, $425.00/person 
times 3 people, utilitit~s included, 
available June,231-8823 after 4 pm. 
2,4,5 Bedroom Apartments near 
campus. Only a few left for next 
school year. Call Jus·tine, 234-9923. 
Edwardsburg lake cottage com­pletely furnished. $750/month plus 
utilities. PERSONAL 
Call850-3347. 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do New 3/4 bdrm homes close to NO, not go it alone. If you or someone 3 full baths, 2-car garage, frpl, sky-you love needs lights. confidential support or assistance, $1640/mo. Call574-232-4527 or please call Sr. Mary Louise Gude, 269-683-5038 CSC,at 
1-7819. For more information, see 

7:30AM to 5:00PM, wages nego-House on E Washington behind our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERV-liable, non-smoker preferred, own VERY NICE 3 bdrm home in 6-8 Person house on Notre Dame Barnabys, near The Boat. 2 BR with ER.
FoR RENT

transportation a plus, contact EastBank area w/washer-dryer & Ave., perfect location across from private deck and 1.5 bath. New Maureen@ (574) 231-8126. alarm system incl. Nice yard for vol-soccer fields, 2 min. walk to cam-kitchen and full basement, Enroll in a Kaplan Test Prep Class 
..... 
leyball etc-full bsmt.Walk_to Corbys pus. Completely rennovated with all NC,bookcases too. Ready to move in March and get $100 back! Call WANTED: MENS Mt BIKE FOR 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO & StJoe Church. new appliances, 3 full baths. in now. $675 mo-lease length neg. 1·800-KAP-TEST for info. COMMUTE LEAVE DESCRIPTION CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM Call Joe Crimmins@ 574-514-Available for 2004-2005 school 273-4486 mmmnmlalsrelaol Cllm 272-1525 0643(cell)or574-273-0002(home) year. Email ~.@yahoo com Call 289-0262 I love you Nancy -Downes 
Wednesday, March 31, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
old 'em To Help 'em 
Texas hold 'em tournament April 2·4 
Nd room· lafortune $10 entry· Great prizes!!! Free snacks!!! 
don't know how to play? Info session/practice rounds on aprill 7 ·9pm nd room 
Discounts for dealers· $5 entry & free pizza! 
Sign up in the dining halls march 25,26,31 &aprill,2 Proceeds to benefit project adopt Sponsored by student govt. 
L-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, March 31, 2004
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Two more women accuse CU football players of rape 
been filed in any of the cases.
Rapes allegedly took 
Three of the women have ylace during initial sued the school, saying they were raped at or just after an reports of scandal off-campus party attended by football players and recruits 
Associated Press 
in 2001. 

BROOMFIELD, Colo. -The Janine D'Anniballe made head of a rape crisis center the allegation during a public said Tuesday that two women meeting of a panel investigat­have come forward to say ing whether the football team they were sexually assaulted used alcohol and sex to entice by University of Colorano foot­recruits. ball players in the past three D'Anniballe, executive 
months.  director  of  
If the allega- Moving  to  
tions are true, it would mean  "I have no reason to  End Sexual Assault in  
football play­ believe her and no reason  Boulder, said  
ers were assaulting women even  to acknowledge it's inco"ect. ,  confidentiali­ty rules barred her  
as the school's  from disclos­ 
recruiting  Luis Rovira  ing details,  
scandal ...::m a k i  was n g  Investigation commlsloner  including whether the  
national head- players are  
lines and uni- still on the  

versity officials were vowing team. to crack down. A spokesman for Attorney 
Eight women since 1997 General Ken Salazar, who is have accused Colorado foot­leading a separate criminal ball players or recruits of investigation into the scandal, rape. No assault charges have declined to comment when asked whether new cases had importance of the ongoing tices, wouldn't comment on been reported. Campus and investigations. She declined D'Ann iballe 's statement Boulder police both referred further comment when Tuesday. calls to Salazar's office. reached by telephone. "I have no reason to believe 

University spokeswoman Luis Rovira, commissioner her and no reason to acknowl­Michele Ames said the new of the eight-member panel edge it's incorrect," he said. "I information underscores the investigating the team's prac-just don't know." 

1Bedl00m 
All Utilities Including Electric Paid. 
3001 E. Jefferson Blvd. Stop in today or visit us 18011 Cleveland Rd South Bend, IN on the web at South Bend, IN 574-232-3333 www.parkjefferson.com 574-272-8100 

LONDON SUMMER PROGRAMME 
INFORMATION SESSION FOR MAY, 2005 &MAY, 2006 
-
ATTEND OUR DROP-IN SESSION ON 
THURSDAY APRIL 1, 2004 BETWEEN 5:00-6:30P.M. 140 DEBARTOLO HALL 
LONDON SUMMER PROGRAMME 
-
RUNS FROM MID-MAY TO MID-JUNE 

1
·-.nr•r r .r t J t 'VI 
I")""TlrT r"'t.r•""" 

Wednesday, March 31, 2004 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

on T. · 

Clp 
''The Passion ofthe Christ'' 
Did you like it? So did others. J~Open Mic Format~J Join us at Legends on Wednesday, March 31st 
Free Soft Drinks & Special Food 
Doors open at 9:30p.m.
C-M 

Campus Ministry ·visit us online at campusministry.nd.edu 





Volunteer Opportunities  'Pledge' Signing Celebration  
A male mentor is needed for a 17-year old boy. Contact Diana Cotton at 234-5914.  Throughout the week of March 29, a comminee of seniors will display the "Notre Dame Class of2004 Pledge  ic. As a culmination of the week ofsigning, there will be a celebration with hors d'oeuvre.~ served and speakers  :!,]1.'~ fi::W<)}Y!Jlg '"''~mr$~ spq~~qt¢{;1 J.~.Y.. A,m.{lesty ·lnt~rna~ :.m~l\~1 :ljrf!l:~rp~~~!veS:t,Uderit ~.uta.ll1·,;e,· will happen next  
Christian Center School is seeking tutors in high school  ofSocial Responsibility" on a large canvas in classroom  from various departments of the University ..  F'ii·~19t~fic: P4i!itsf:~¢"'lif,c~ .c:'9 llk1:•n(l•mic Jqstice:. <,.;a~ijciU¢··•·f¢r$p¢t(W¢(Q.n f~c()Q()lll\;i¢ Justice: Panel featuf·  
English, Physics and Math. Tutors are needed from 9am­ buildings, dining halls and LaFortune for seniors to  Where: Legends  Uibor Research Hhn""'"''"''ulltuc:rrcz. Vice President ofCom­ 
ll:45am any day of the week.  sign. Those who sign the  When: Thursday, April I  They will discuss the  
Contact Gena, Sue or Mr. Barlage at 299-4253  canvas will receive a wallet­sized card wich the pledge on  from 8:30-9:30 pm,  .,..~.-""··c··-n·­.• on economic justice and issues hriir/r'iuhifi:i•J••\'•••::::.::•.::::::::. •·•.  
Jumpstart is a program rhat brings in 2nd-4th graders  Dusk til Dawn Night  
who might not have rhe op­portunity to visit an art mu­seum into the Snite for a tour and activity. The program is fully developed with "scripts" ro be presenred and trans­portation provided. Contact Jackie Welsh at 631-4435. Cardinal Nursing Center  Students will spent rhe night on South Quad to raise money for the St. Peter Claver Catholic Worker. The night will include mass, spe-akers, the movie Entertain~ ing Angels, free breakfast, and more. Sign-ups will be Monday, March 15-Wednes­ che dining halls. There is a $5 registration fee and all proceeds will go the Catholic Worker. For more informa­tion, email jdark2@nd.edu or mmccart3@nd.edu. When: April2 at 8:00pm to April 3 a.t 6:00 am  P9•q91rMP~i'lerYIY~~vert..y O~tlaw": i story of hard !C¢~ pit)~:U bv li1vitilt JihJ:m\te.:n.·~··:without a safecy nee.  
needs a male student to visit  day, M~rch 17 from 11-1  Where: South Quad  
a mentally handicapped man  at LaFortune and 5-7 at  
once a week. Contact Megan  
Waller at 287-6501.  Experiential Learning Council Apps Due  
An elderly couple is looking  
for help with cleaning their  The ELC is an organization  the large.~t fiscal allocation of  
garage on a Monday after­ that fosters and develops  any srudenr~run organization.  :-·:io:  
noon. Contact Idcra Thomp­ experiential learning on  One area offocus for the  - 
son at 234-0300. Acompanion is needed for an older woman, one or two times a month. She can come to Notre Dame. Contact Patry Malone at p.l.malone@worldnet.att.net  behalf of the studenrs at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. The ELC is a developing organization chat serves over 700 students a year. Highlighting its importance, the ELC currently receives  2004-2005 year is service networking with aims to expand N D service-earning opportunities. Other priorities inclucle action for justice and development of new resources.  ~'1\: .. . chrohides the ~t;:J.;;;a$• rutgelc.:S..•. high-rise jahitors. <:-:;::;.··.  


OUND THE NATION 
-


around the dial 
NHL 
Detroit at Columbus, 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA

-
Milwaukee at Indiana, 7 p.m., FOX Sports Net 
NFL 


mer Ohio State running he said. appeals court not to stay
Associated Press 

back is only two years out Added NFL chief counsel the effect of the lower of high school. Jeff Pash, speaking at the court ruling Tuesday, say­
NEW YORK -A federal 

The appeals panel NFL meetings in Palm ing such a ruling would
appeals court will hear the instead agreed to set oral Beach, Fla., "We are very cause NFL teams not to

dispute over whether 

arguments for April 19 optimistic. We think it is a take his client as seriouslyMaurice Clarett can enter and suggested it might positive indicator of the before the draft. 
the NFL draft less than a immediately rule whether seriousness with which the "They did not issue aweek before it takes place. 

Clarett can enter the draft, court of appeals is taking stay," Milstein told The 
The NFL on Tuesday 

with a written ruling to fol­the argument." Associated Press. "Theytried to convince a three­
low explaining its reason­Pash said if the court set forth an expeditedjudge panel of the 2nd U.S. ing. rules in the NFL's favor briefing schedule. NothingCircuit Court of Appeals NFL lawyer Gregg Levy before the draft, Clarett, happened today that was that it should block told the appeals court he Southern California sopho­unexpected. The court is Clarett's entry by staying was satisfied with the more Mike Williams and just doing what it needs to the effect of a lower court plan. seven others would not be do to work hard and get judge's ruling he be "We want a decision included. Maurice in the draft-and allowed in the April 24-25 before the draft. That's Clarett's lawyer, Alan with plenty of time to do draft, even though the for-what's important to us," Milstein, convinced the it." 
IN BRIEF 

Iverson done for remainder night's game against Golden State. Commissioner Paul Tagliabue and of regular season Philadelphia is lOth in the Eastern league counsel Jeff Pash also said 
PHILADELPHIA -Philadelphia Conference, three games behind that a federal appeals court in New 
76ers All-Star Allen Iverson will miss eighth-place Boston. York agreed to hear arguments to the rest of the regular season King said Iverson's health would be overturn the lower court ruling because of persistent pain in his re-evaluated if the Sixers make the allowing Ohio State sophomore right knee. playoffs. Maurice Clarett and other under­
The team announced Tuesday "Worse case scenario, surgery classman and high schoolers into the night that an MRI on Iverson showed would be an option if it does not draft. Pash said if the court rules in no meniscal or ligament damage to calm down," King said. "Rest and the NFL's favor before the April 24­his knee, but he has a small lesion rehabilitation hopefully will do it." 25 draft, Clarett, Southern California under the knee cap. sophomore Mike Williams and seven 
The injury was diagnosed Monday NFL decides to continue use others would not be included. by New York Giants team doctor of instant replay Should that happen and the NFL 
Russell Warren. PALM BEACH, Fla. -The NFL subsequently loses the appeal, a sup­"It was better now to sit him down once again compromised on instant plemental draft for those players 
so it doesn't linger a lot longer," said replay, deciding Tuesday to continue would be held within 10 days of the team president Billy King. "It's prob­it for five more years rather than court decision. ably best to get it where his knee is putting it in permanently. The vote on replay was 29-3, with 
100 percent. It's not a situation The owners did decide, however, to Kansas City, Indianapolis and where Allen doesn't want to play. His add an extra challenge for teams Cincinnati voting against, but 
knee just keeps swelling up." who have successfully used two chal­Arizona voting for it for the first time 
Messages left for Iverson and his lenges. Since replay was reinstituted in the two decades it has been con­agent, Leon Rose, were not immedi­in 1999, teams were limited to just sidered. ately returned. two challenges, except for the last "Some people were still concerned 
The Sixers had eight regular-sea­two minutes of each half, when a about replay," Tagliabue said about son games left heading into Tuesday replay official could order a review. not instituting it permanently. 
r----------------------------------------­
Wednesday, March 31, 2004 page 19
The Observer+ SPORTS 
Lacrosse 

continued from page 24 
been shooting the ball well recently." 

Following goals by midfielders Brian Hubschmann and Steve Clagget to open the game against the Pride, the junior netted his first two goals of the game to open a 4-0 Notre Dame lead early in the first quarter. His next shot attempt snuck by the Hofstra goaltender at the 
6:41 mark of the second quarter to make the score 10-2. Two quick goals in the fourth quarter gave Giordano five goals, while his teammate Hubschmann finished with four. 
Giordano's effectiveness at the mid­field position has been rewarded in the past. The GWLL made him a first-team all-league honoree last season. In high school, Giordano received Player of the them. The Princeton, N.J. native scored Year honors in New Jersey from the nine goals and notched 10 assists as an Trenton Times after becoming the attackman. After the switch to midfield, career scoring leader at the Hun School Giordano's production hardly went with 262 points. down. As a sophomore, he scored 13 
Still, his talent and goals and had five effectiveness were assists, earning him­
"! think coach justfigured
visible again against self that first-team all­Hofstra. Giordano he could use my strength league honor. seems confident that His goals, however,
best at the midfield [when 
the once foreign remain team-oriented.
he switched me]. " 
position now fits him. League play begins 
"I think coach just today against Ohio figured he could use Brian Giordano State, and Giordano my strength best at realizes nothing is big­
Irish midfield 

the midfield [when ger than maintaining he switched me]," team chemistry. Giordano said. "We already have great "Coming off our last game against attackmen in [senior Matt] Howell and Hofstra, if we bring that same energy [senior Dan] Berger." and enthusiasm we can play with the 
Giordano played in all 13 games his best teams in country," he said. freshman year and started in 12 of Giordano said the Irish lost to Loyola, a team that defeated Hofstra this sea­son, because of a lack of effort. But against Hofstra, the attitude was differ­ent. And so was the result. 
"We were really fired up," Giordano said. "We beat them on ground balls. It was more of an emotional effort. We know we are a team capable of being a top-five team in the country. 
"[Against Ohio State] we'll have to out work them and we're hoping we can continue that for the rest of the sea­son." 
The junior does not seem to care where he is playing on the field, as long as the team is winning. 
"I obviously haven't been switched back [to attackman]." he said. "So I think things are working out, for me and for the team." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

College of Arts and Letters 
University of Notre Dame 
Invites Nominations 
for 
the Father Sheedy Award 
Each year, the Sheedy Award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, honors one member of the Arts and Letters faculty for outstanding teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nomination letters for this year's award to: 
Hugh R. Page, Jr. Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Monday, 5 April, 2004 


internationa I student services & activities' 
INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL WEEK continuesthroughApril2 Wednesday,March 31 
==============================~ 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

ND's Simon, Kinnik earn Big East honors 
Special to The Observer 

The awards and honors just keep on coming for the red-hot Notre Dame women's lacrosse team. 
Senior midfielder Meredith Simon was named the Big East offensive player of the week for her play in No. 3 Notre Dame's wins over Virginia Tech (18-11) and Boston College (17-7) last week. Senior defensive standout Andrea Kinnik was chosen the league's co-defensive player of the week for the week ending March 28. 
For Simon, this marks the second time in the month of March that she has been hon-
Baseball 
continued from page 24 

.277 as a team in the three victories. Second baseman Steve Sollmann, who entered the weekend struggling at the plate with a .227 average, had a good series offensively by going 5-for-11 with a key two­run home run to put the Irish ahead for good in the third 
7pm: BraziI Club presents Samba andForro dancing wit:h perFormances, inst:ruct:ion, andBraziI ian t:reats! 
Pasqueri I Ia West 
Thursday, Apri I 1 


3:30pm: International Women'sClub'sAnnual lnt:ernat;ional Children's Fest:iva I. 
University Vi IIage Community Center 7pm: Mus! im StudentAssociation presents an EveningoFMuslim Prayer. 
330 Coleman-Morse Co-sponsored with Campus Ministry and the Department of"Theology 
Friday, Apri I 2 6-9pm: Af"rican StudentAssociation presents an AFrican Cult:ural Night: Feat:.uring anAFrican dance t:roupe, art:s, music, and Food. 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
AII event:s are Free, unless ot:.herwise indicat:ed. See t:he ISSA Web sit:e For more det;ai/s: www.nd.edu/-issa orphone 631-3825. 
ored by the conference, as she was co-offensive player of the week on March 8. 
What Simon is to scoring for the Irish, Andrea Kinnik is to stopping opponents from scor­ing. The senior defender helped the Irish extend their record to 7-0 on the year and 2-0 in the Big East last week as she recorded six ground balls, had three draw controls and caused three turnovers in the two victories. 
She also set up Notre Dame's first goal in the 17-11 win over Boston College when she forced a turnover, raced the length of the field and fed Crysti Foote for a goal just 
3:55 into Sunday's win. 
game against the 
Mountaineers. 
Shortstop Greg Lopez also continued his hot hitting, bat­ting 6-for-12 in the series with three runs scored in the final game. Lopez now leads the Irish starters in several cate­gories, including batting aver­age (.411), hits (30), doubles (eight), total bases (44) and slugging percentage (.603). He has also hit a pair of home runs on the season. 
Third baseman Matt Macri is currently the Irish leader in ..__ HBis with 22, and Sollmann leads the Irish in runs scored with 21. 
The Broncos have stumbled out of the gate this year, going 1-4 to start the season, but come into today's game against the Irish having beat-._ en Notre Dame in three of their last four meetings. 
Over the weekend in West Lafayette, Ind., the Broncos split a pair with Purdue and took two games from Cleveland State. 
Western Michigan boasts just a .259 team batting aver­age and has only four players batting .300 or better on the season, led by first baseman Justin Carter (.315) and infielder Matt Bolton (.312). Carter is also the team leader in HBis with 18 and home runs with two. 
The Bronco pitching staff .,. has posted a 5.04 EHA on the season, with opponents bat­ting .289 against them. 
The first pitch is scheduled for 5 p.m. today at Frank Eck Stadium. ­
Contact Chris Federico at cfederic@nd.edu 

page 20 Wednesday, March 31, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 
Football 
continued from page 24 
aged 336 yards and 20 points per game last season and took much of the criticism for the team's poor performance throughout the year. 
But this season, the Irish seem optimistic that the offen­sive woes of the last few years will change for the better. 
"We feel like we have a sense of urgency this year," rising junior receiver Maurice Stovall said. "We know we had a real bad season last year, not the type that Notre Dame should have. We just want to bring Notre Dame back on top and 
<• strive toward a national cham­pionship every year." The players at spring practice this season have all had at least one year playing under Diedrick's pro-style offense. Stovall said this experience will help the offense become more productive. "It is definitely important to have experience in the offense," Stovall said. "There are lot of guys that feel more comfortable and a lot of guys that [know] their plays more. I think as a whole offense, we're coming together." The biggest concern for Notre Dame during spring practice last season was the offensive line. But this year, Diedrick said getting each individual player to perform better is the 
ter but play more consistent. With the experience across the board at all positions, what you're looking at now ... [are] roles where guys are going to fit in." 
One of the biggest voids on offense this season could be replacing Jones, who rushed for 1,268 yards and 10 touch­downs in 2003 and had three 200-yard rushing games. Ryan Grant, who rushed for over 1,000 during his sophomore season, is the No. 1 back with rising junior Marcus Wilson and rising sophomore Travis Thomas close behind. 
Diedrick said replacing Jones will be difficult, but certainly not impossible. 
"Yes, you can replace Julius Jones," Diedrick said. "You've got good competition back there.... You may not replace [Jones] with one guy, but you may replace him with a couple, and I don't mind having it be by committee." 
The Irish line should be improved from last year's squad, which struggled early in the season before. evolving into a solid unit. Center Bob Morton said the group is simply trying to improve during spring and 
... ··········-····················································································.·····-' 
FOOTBALL 
Experience helps Wilks land Irish job 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Writer 
Sometimes knowing the right person helps in getting a job. Just ask new Notre Dame coach Steven Wilks. 
The Notre Dame secondary coach replaces Trent Walters, who accepted a job to coach with the Philadelphia Eagles. Wilks met Walters at a coaching con­vention last year and kept close 
--r contact with the former Notre Dame second­ary coach. 
the head coach at Savannah State University in 1999 and is a former defensive coordinator at Savannah State, East Middle Tennessee State and Johnson C. Smith University. He coached defensive backs at Bowling Green University last season and had a player lead the MACC in interceptions and another in forced fumbles. 
Willingham said the fact that Wilks' had been a head coach and a defensive coordinator is one of best attributes. 
"There is no 

substitute for 
Willingham. 
"Based on past experience, he's a bright coach," Willingham said. "He has the ability to articulate what we need to do on defense to our young men. He has experience which really belies his youth so we think it's a good combina­tion." 
Now that he's been hired, Wilks is excited to be a part of Notre Dame's tradition-rich pro­gram. 
"This is, without a doubt in my mind, the best place in the world for college football," Wilkes said. "The tradition here, the history, the fan base the excitement and enthusiasm is what college foot­
-
ball is all about. Just having the opportunity to be a part of the Notre Dame family is great." 
Wilks brings an array of expe­rience to Notre Dame. He was 
greatest obstacle for the offense. 
"Your concern is -especially when you have an experienced group -that everybody raises their game up a notch," he said. "Through the off-season conditioning and the ability to come in and not only play bet­come together. 
"It sounds easy sometimes [because] we are older," Morton said. "We've come a long way from where we were but we have a long, long way to go." 
Despite just two practices 
into spring ball, Diedrick said he's excited about the possibili­ties of this season's offense. 
"You've got experience at receivers, you've got experi­ence at the tight end position, you've got experience at the offensive line and you've got experience at running back," Diedrick said. ''I'm very excited about that. We feel that is one of the pluses going in." 

Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
The Spring Run 
A Benefit for ~ldlng Together with Christmas in Aprir' 
'Ka10KRUNI 
PLUS 

2 MILl ~ALBI 
-

Saturday, April3, 2004 
11:00 A.M.. Stepan Center 
~ ...,:sillrt5·10-·aiff:iilish«S....................~ ..~......... -----------1 
Register in Advance at RecSports $6.00 In Advance or $8.00 Day of Race ! Advance Registration Begins 3/25, Ends @ 5:00 p.m. 4/2 Student and Staff Divisions !,:, 



Notre Dame Athletics Wednesday March 31, 2004 #15 ND vs. Ohio State@ 4:oopm Men's lacrosse GOlD GAMEl 
(Moose Krause Field) 
When Walters "This is, without a doubt experience," left for the NFL, Willingham
in my mind, the best 

he told Wilks to said. "There
place in the world for 

apply for the is no substi­open position college football. " tute for hav­Also, the first 150 fans get a Notre Dame .....,. and recom-ing a total 
Gumball Machine, sponsored by Famous
mended him to perspective of ,
Steven Wilks 

Irish head the total 
Dave's and are invited to a pre-game
new Irish secondary coach 

coach Tyrone game and not 
Famous Dave/s Tailgating Party!
just an indi­
vidual seg­ment." Wilks said one of his goals for 
Wednesday March 31, 2004 
his players is to mold them into not just good football players, but good people. 
At Frank Eck Stadium 
"[I] know what it takes to get young men to the next level and 
At 5:05 pm, stop by to watch the 6th-ranked 
not just on the football field. I am 
Irish baseball team battle Western Michigan.
trying to develop them as young men," Wilks said. "That's what's 
Admission is free for all ND students. 
important to me -developing the overall person." 
For additional tickets, call 631-7456. 
Wilks' job will be trying to find ways to improve a secondary that loses former starters Vontez Duff and Gerome Sapp. The Irish 

' > 
do return experienced players in Dwight Ellick, Preston Jackson and Quentin Burrell for the 2004 season. 
Contact Joe Hettler at 
IDirlla..•lalla....BE THEIEI 
jhettler@nd.edu 


Wednesday, March 31, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 

·------------------------------------------­
PPE THE MINOR IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE minor invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas ofpolitical philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students--are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see ifit is for you. Many ofour students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
Ifyou are looking for 

(1) 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major, and 

(2) 
an intellectual community offaculty and students who share your interests, 


then PPE wants you! 

FOR MORE INFORMATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy 
Department, doconnor@_)ld.cdu, or Professor John Roos, Political Science Department, 
Roos.l @nd.edu. 

FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to Professor Roos or Professor 
O'Connor. The application deadline is 3:00PM on Wednesday, Apri17. Late applications will 
be accepted only ifopenings are still available. 

PPE INFORMATION MEETING WEDNESDAY, MARCH 31, 4:30-5:30 PM, 208 O'SHAUGHNESSY HALL. 

Members of the Notre Dame team watch dejectedly from the bench In the final seconds of Saturday's 55-49 NCAA loss. 
WoiDen 
continued from page 24 

year, they will also look for junior Jacqueline Batteast to come in with another season like this one. 
"Jackie was just really incredible this season," McGraw said. "We're really pleased with her." 
Batteast's outstanding season came after a disappointing sophomore year that ended with an even more disappoint­ing postseason. But this year was a whole new year, and a whole new Batteast. 
She averaged 16 points and 
8.6 rebounds a game, good for all-Big East first-team. Batteast was also named hon­orable mention All-American by the Associated Press, and was a finalist for the Kodak/WBCA All-American team as well as for the Naismith Award. 
During the NCAA tourna­ment, Batteast upped her aver­ages to 22 points and 11.7 rebounds, good enough to earn her a spot on the NCAA East Regional all-tournament team. 
"She feels really good about the way she played in the tour­nament," McGraw said. "She proved why she is going to be one of the top five players in the nation next season." 
Batteast will be joined next year by Big East Most Improved Player Megan Duffy, who averaged 9.9 points and 
3.9 assists after taking over as the point guard this year. 
Duffy will lead a tournament­tested team, as the Irish have played in the Sweet 16 in con­secutive years. 
Next season, Duffy will be joined in the backcourt by two new faces. Charel Allen, a 5­foot-1 0 guard from Monessen. Pa., and 5-foot-8 Tulyah Gaines"" from North Las Vegas, Nev. will vie for playing time next year. 
Allen scored more than 3,000 points in her high school career, and is highly touted as a driver and slasher. 
Meanwhile, the Irish also gain another post presence in 6-foot-5 Melissa D'Amico, a resident of Manorville, N.Y. She will take the title of the tallest member of the Irish team. 
D'Amico joins a corps that­includes Courtney LaVere, Teresa Borton and Erwin. LaVere will only be a junior. while Borton will bring experi­ence to the table as a senior. Erwin, named preseason Big East Freshman of the Year, has come along since the beginning of the season and should pro-· vide depth at the post position next year. 
But the bright future of this team can't dim the lights of this season, despite the loss to Penn State in the same round as last year. 
So now the Irish take the loss and put it behind them. They have just two weeks off leading up to the Easter holiday April 
9. After Easter, McGraw said the team will work out three days a week, including two hours of individual workouts. 
"I felt we achieved our potential," McGraw said. "We played our best basketball at the end of the year. We lost to­a No. 1 seeded team in a game that could have gone either way." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


YNAEYC Accredited -Promoting Excellence (ECDC-ND)
f :n Earljr Childhood Education 


page 22 Wednesday, March 31, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 
. MEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish open GWL league play against ranked Ohio State 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
At today's game, the Irish will be trying to get the most bang for their buck. 
The hard-nosed Buckeyes of Ohio State (5-2) are expected to be a challenge for No. 13 Notre Dame (2-3). Last season, both teams were among the confer­ence tri-champions at the end of the year. 
It will be the first conference match for the Irish this season. Notre Dame heads into the match with hopes of regaining their momentum after losing three of the last four games. 
Ohio State is the sixth-nation­
--ally ranked opponent the Irish will be facing this season. A win against the Buckeyes could potentially place the Irish with­in the top 10. 
But the Buckeyes are coming off of a four-game winning streak after dropping two one­goal decision games earlier this season. They are led offensively by leading scorer Anthony Gilardi, who is nationally ranked 19th (1.71). Other tpp scorers include midfield Shaun Lyons, attack Kyle Olson, and midfield Tom Randisi. Greg Bice leads the team with 25 ground balls. 
Ohio State is currently 18th in the nation for scoring. Additionally, the team is ranked third nationally in goals allowed per game (6.29) -an aspect of the game which has been their strength early on this season. 
However, the Irish lead the series 18-8 series, and seem poised to pull out a victory since their win against Hofstra. Attack Pat Walsh said he has noted a change in the team's confidence level at practice and feels the team is prepared for the match. 
"When we were playing hard against Hofstra, we knew we were that talented," Walsh said. "That is our goal for this week against Ohio State and Dartmouth. Just go out hard the results will be similar." 
Key players for the Irish include Walsh, the fourth-lead­ing scorer in the nation (4.60), Steve Clagett and Chris Richez. Clagett and Richez both had five ground balls against Hofstra to help achieve a season high 4 7­32 advantage for Notre Dame. Matt Ryan also had a notable performance last week after setting career highs by scoring three points and registering four assists. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 


SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles look to extend win streak at Albion 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 
The Belles will look to continue their winning streak today against Albion College at 3 p.m. Coming off two big wins against Tri-State on Monday, Saint Mary's will pack up its momen­tum traveling to Michigan. 
"Winning the last two games helps prepare us for Albion, with­out a doubt," Katrina Tebbe said. "We came ready to play, and we played aggressively from the first pitch to the last out and that is how we need to bring every game day, especially against con­ference teams. Two wins [were] great preparation as it boosted our confidence and put all aspects of the game together." 
Agressive play is exactly what they will need against Albion. 
The Britons (9-5) are currently tied with Alma for first place in the MIAA after winning two games against Olivet earlier this month. Last season, Saint Mary's split a doubleheader with Albion. In their victory, the Belles tallied 10 hits and got two RBis from Marnie Walsh and Jackie Zurcher 
Walsh has been on a tear lately. She went 6-for-6 Monday and added three RBis. On the season she has an average of .377, only second on the team behind Laura Heline. 
Albion, who finished second in the MIAA a year ago is led by Megan Russell and Beth Striffier and should present a very good test for the Belles. 
Winning both games against Albion would give Saint Mary's a big boost as they prepare to play four more conference rivals over the next two weeks. Already tied for last in the conference, the Belles (7 -11 overall, 0-2 in the MIAA) must avoid losing any more if they plan on being a threat in their conference. 
"The next doubleheader is very important, as one of our team goals is making the conference tournament," Tebbe said. "It would also be nice to get two wins early in conference competi­tion." 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 

ACROSS 1 Shout from the  35 "I'm so glad!" 36 Elevs.  62 Aladdin's side­kick  CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Rhea Perlman, Christopher Walken, Shirley Jones, Cesar Chavez  
sidelines on TV 37 Toaster treat 6 "Monty Py1hon" 40 State Dept. fig·airer ure 9 "Concentration" 41 Comics shriekpuzzle 42 Met number14 Expo '70 site 15 "Seinfeld" uncle 43 Opposite of endo·16 Visibly shocked 44 Shows con­17 Casino slickster tempt for19 Caddie, bastcal­46 Potential retireely 20 Dangerous 48 Gold rush terri­cargo, in mod­tory ern lingo 49 Shamefaced 22 Humble reply 50 W.W.II ally 23 "Charlotte's 52 Major fiction Web" author 54 "Go ahead,27 Sheriff's party? ask!" 29 Snickers 56 What 17· and 30 Like some eels 37-Across and or catfish 11· and 33 Genesis first· 25-Down each born comes to? 34 Sleek, in car 61 Two-door con­talk veyance ANSWER TO PREVIOU=S-r.P:-TU=Zr=Z~LE,.,  63 Instant message recipient, maybe 64 Like unlucky toreadors 65 Iron-pumper's unit 66 Writer who's in the minority DOWN 1 Ad 2 "Love Sickness" (Daniel poem) 3 Deface 4 Gave the go-ahead 5 Five iron 6 Mark, as a trail 7 Road shoulder 8 Accede to the district attorney, perhaps 9 Blow the whistle (on) 10 Self-server 11 Bad coffee,  31 "You are not!" retort 32 RoboCop, e.g. 37 Bench locale  45 Low Countries locale 46 Margarita feature  53 Sensation, slangily 55 Sitcom news­man Baxter  Happy Birthday: Don't be so hard on yourself and your loved ones this year. You need to give everyone, including yourself, a break. Although things aren't always running as smoothly as you would like, they will be accomplished in the end. Accept the inevitable and don't be afraid to give in once in awhile --you will do much better. Your numbers: 3, 9, 19, 26, 37,46 ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Look over work you have done and make sure that you're happy with it. Discuss your intentions and goals with older family members who have the experience to direct you. ••• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You will be weepy if you don't get your way. You must control your moods if you don't warn to be left on your own. Don't let your friends or family cost you money. Losses are likely. •• GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Don't make promises that you can't keep. Problems while traveling will cause delays in your plans. Stay calm. A lack of support and help can be expected. ••• CANCER (June 21-July 22): Relationships appear to be changing. Don't try to hold on to something that is no longer good. Acceptance is the best reaction. It's time to move on to greener pastures. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You have an unrealistic view of your personal situation. Listen to your partner and you'll discover legitimate complaints. You can't fix problems unless you understand them. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Sit back, relax and read a good book. You're in the right frame of mind to learn. Listen and observe others and you will gain information that will benefit your personal situation. **•• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Real estate opportunities will surface. You can make changes to your home that will make your surroundings nicer and improve the value of your property. •••• SCORPIO (Oct. 2.1-Nov. 21): Your jealous tendencies may cause your mate to be untruthful with you. You must learn to control your reaction or get out of the relationship if it is causing anguish. •• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Problems with relatives will surface if you're involved in financial ventures with them. Try to avoid a scene by being honest and open about the situation. Your hands are tied. •• • CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Get into shape. You can join clubs that will  '>  
informally 12 Manipulator 13 Light-footed 18 Panama and porkpie 21 •_is human  38 Mork's leader on "Mork & Mindy" 39 Place for cock· tails 43 Chang's twin  47 Ratify by stamp· ing 49 In a lather 50 Maritime grp. 51 "Buzz off!"  57 Lobster eggs 58 Brownie 59 Take captive 60 Like some wells and lectures  enable you to test your endurance and stamina. You need to get out and enjoy good company. Mental and physical stimulation are a must. • • • • • AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may have to do things that don't include your mate today. You can expect changes in your routine that will lead you into foreign territory. You can prosper if you play your cards right. ••• • PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Passion is in order if you plan to spend a quiet evening with the one you love. Pregnancy may be the result if you haven't taken precautions. Carelessness will lead to losses. •••  ....  
"  
23 Makes aquatints 24 Much traveled  For answers, call 1-900-289-CLUE (289-2583), $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5550,  Birthday Baby: You'll understand your purpose from a very early age. You were born with vision and a humanitarian outlook that will be admired by family and friends. You're a seeker of truth and a hard worker when it comes to  
25 Sugary cocktail 26 Clucker 28 Nae sayer  Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/r:rosswords ($34.95 a year).  achieving your life goals. Need advice? Try Eugenia '.r  website  at  www.eugenia/a.1·t.com  
30 Trouble con­stantly  Share tips: ny1imes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: ny1imes.com/learning/xwords.  

Wednesday, March 31, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

WILLSHORTZ EUGENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE 
SCOTT ADAMS 
BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION• 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
I"~~;M~r 
(J I . ()
C2004 Tribuna Media Servlcea, Inc. All Rights Reaerved. 
LAIGY 

± 
tPIRAMI 
WHAT HE SAID
J I I 
'r"JJ-EN D-E CONCERT 
www umble.com 
WAS 0/ER. 

TOUGUD 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 


An~r= yJis "(I I I I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: TACKY YEARN ZENITH SATIREYesterday's I 
Answer: How the baker felt after making cakes all day -"STIR" CRAZY 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ____________________________________ 
City ________ State _____ Zip______ 
.... 


THE 0BSER\'ER 
PORTS
Wednesday, March 31, 2004 
page 24 
fOOTBALL 
No more offensive offense 
Irish hope 8 returning starters will help erase 2003 woes 
LOCK!fhe 

Irish quarterback Brady Quinn takes a snap during the first day of spring practice Monday. Offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said currently, Quinn Is the only offensive player who knows he is going to be starting Notre Dame's season opener In the fall. 
' 
better in 2004. tion because now you're not locked into
See Also 

ByJOE HETTLER 
"The thing that starting a guy just because he's it by
Sports Writer "Experience helps
competition creates nature of being the only guy there." is each person has to Wilks land Irish job" Notre Dame loses starting lineman Jim Besides quarterback, every position on elevate their game," Molinaro, tailback Julius Jones and
page20

Notre Dame's offense will have battles for Diedrick said. receiver Omar Jenkins, but return every playing time this spring-and that's good "Those that elevate other offensive starter from last season's news for Bill Diedrick. continue to play and those that don't kind 5-7 squad. Notre Dame's offense aver-
Notre Dame's offensive coordinator says of wash out. That's the nice thing-final­the team's depth should make the offense ly having some depth and some competi-see FOOTBALL/page 20 
BASEBALL 
Broncos gallop into Eck 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior Staff Writer 
Following a three game sweep at West Virginia to open Big East conference play, the Irish (17-3, 3-0 in the Big East) return home today to take on Western Michigan at Frank Eck Stadium. 
With the three victories against the Mountaineers, Notre Dame finished the week 4-1 and moved up to No. 5 in the Collegiate Baseball Newspaper poll. The Irish are also ranked No. 6 by the National Collegiate Baseball Writers Association poll, No. 9 by the Sports Weekly/ESPN Coaches poll and No. 12 by the Baseball America poll. 
Notre Dame should be wary hosting the Broncos (8-11) today, as the Irish saw first­hand last week how danger­ous mid-week games can be when they lost 4-1 to Central Michigan. 
But the Irish offense started to get back on track over the weekend, as Notre Dame hit 
see BASEBALL/page 19 

MEN'S lACROSSE 
Switch not so hard for ND's Giordano 
By PAT LEONARD ..,Associate Sports Editor 
When Brian Giordano made the switch from playing attack­man to manning the midfield after his freshman season, he had no problem with the change. He trusted his coaches knew what was best for the 
•earn. He understood he would have to adjust. But that doesn't mean the transition was easy. 
"I had never played defense in my life before I got to col­lege," Giordano said. "Now I was playing midfield, and I had to learn to play offense and defense. So it was a big transi­
-tion, but I think it has been a positive move." The Great Western Lacrosse League would agree -or at 
least it did last week. 

The league named Giordano its Player of the Week after the junior tied a career high with five goals in a 19-11 Irish upset of No. 13 Hofstra March 24. 
Giordano's other five-goal performance came during a 13-4 victory over Air Force on April 12 of last season. While a potent weapon on Notre Dame's attack, Giordano attributes his recent success to the abundance of talent on the Irish front lines. 
"We just have a lot of great offensive players," he said. ''I'm just finding some passing lanes and my teammates are putting the ball on my stick. I didn't do anything spectacular [against Hofstra]. but I've just 
see LACROSSE/page 19 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Future bright for next year 
Promising Sweet 16 run reveals Irish talent 

By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
When the final horn sound­ed Saturday afternoon at the Hartford Civic Center in Notre Dame's 55-49 loss to Penn State in the third round of the NCAA Tournament, there were looks of disap­pointment across the faces of the Irish. But deep down, these women know the best is yet to come. 
"We've got a good returning group," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
The group McGraw refers to is headed by physical pres­ence Crystal Erwin and defensive stopper Breona Gray. Adding to the mix is shooter Susie Powers, who saw limited action this sea­son. 
"The freshmen will be the difference," McGraw said. "Breona, Susie and Crystal all have a lot to contribute next season. They will all play a bigger role in what we are going to do." 
The trio of freshmen will have to step up to replace the three seniors -Monique Hernandez, Jeneka Joyce and Le'Tania Severe. Each had her own role and excelled in it. Hernandez was in for defense, Joyce was the shoot­er and Severe was the scrap­py hustler and slasher that the Irish counted on for a spark. 
But while McGraw tries to replace these players next 
see WOMEN/page 21 

m 
SMC SOFTBALL 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
NFL 
MLB 
NCAA FOOTBALL

NBA
w 
On the same day that 

Dealing a blow to the 
A University of
Saint Mary's at 

Ohio State at 
Devil Rays 8

1m-u 
owners decided to keep 
Colorado official said

Sixers' playoff hopes, 
z Adrian 

Notre Dame 
Yankees 3 
instant replay, a judge 

Allen Iverson 
that two women have

ca: ::5 
said the NFL will be 

announced he will miss 
claimed they were

Today, 4 p.m.
Today, 3 p.m. 

After the season open­
= 
~ 
able to appeal the 

Philadelphia's final 
raped by football play-

The Irish hope to end
The Belles hope to 

er in Tokyo, New York 
~ 
Maurice Clarett ruling 

eight games of the sea­
ers in the last three

a rut where they have 
win their first MIAA 

finds itself in last place 
before draft day. 

son with a knee injury. 
months.

lost three of four.
-*D. ti games today. 
in the AL East. 

en 
page 18
page 22 

page 22 
page 18 
page 16

page 14 





