
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 2 

University vvelcoiTies 3 provosts 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Associate News Editor 
The University named replacements this summer for its three departing associate provosts, all of whom are assuming greater administra­tive responsi­bilities at either Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. 
Two of the new associate provosts. Jean Ann Linney and Christine Maziar, come from outside t h e University. and the third, Dennis Jacobs, served previ­ously as a chemistry professor at Notre Dame. 
"It's a chal­lenge, but it also adds new insight and vitality," Provost Nathan Hatch said of the changes occurring in his office. 
A search process began after Carol Ann Mooney, former asso-



see PROVOSTS/page 6 

WEDNESDAY. AUGUST 25,2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
US revokes visa for Ramadan 
Decision bars Muslim scholarfrom teaching at Notre Dame 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Drawing a national spotlight to the University and dealing a painful blow to the Kroc Institute for Peace Studies. the State Department has revoked the visa of Tariq Ramadan, a prominent but contro­

versial Muslim schol­ar scheduled to begin teaching at Notre Dame Tuesday. 
Hired last spring to 


raise the pro-Ramadan me and diver­sify the curriculum of the Kroc Institute, Ramadan was initially granted a visa after passing a thorough investigation by both the Department of Homeland Security and the State Department. However, his per­mission to work in the United States was revoked July 28 for reasons not revealed to the University. 
Homeland Security spokesman Dean Boyd would not comment on the specifics of the decision to bar Ramadan, a Swiss citizen who had been scheduled to teach Islamic philosophy and ethics beginning this fall at Notre Dame. But Boyd said visas are typically revoked when a nonciti­zen poses a potential national security threat or a public safety risk -two suggestions that the University immediately denied. 
"We know of no reason why he shouldn't be allowed in," Notre Dame spokesman Matt Storin 
said. "If we did, we wouldn't  
have hired him."  
According  to  State  

see PROFESSOR/page 9 


Seniors gathered Tuesday morning to purchase football tickets at Notre Dame Stadium for the second time In two days. Some students expressed concern overthe process and cost of tickets. 
Officials optimistic about ticket distribution 
By KATE GALES 
News Writer 
Despite some student confu­sion over lottery numbers and frustration about the price increase, University officials were optimistic about the first 

No evidence found in sexual assault inquiry 
Hospital tests reveal female student was not sexually attacked 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Editor 
Medical tests conducted on a female Notre Dame student who awoke naked near an abandoned home Saturday morning -lead­ing Notre Dame Security/Police to issue a campus-wide e-mail alert that afternoon -revealed no evi­dence of sexual assault, St. Joseph County Police Department spokes­woman Jaimee Thirion said Tuesday. 
"[The incident] was originally investigated as a potential rape but was not," Thirion said, adding that she was unaware of the stu­dent's blood alcohol content upon checking in to the hospital. "There was no evidence that she was attacked." 
The student, whose last memo­ry of the night was dancing at the Linebacker Lounge, awoke in a yard adjacent to the athletic fields east of campus and requested the tests after realizing that her clothes were missing and discov­ering bruises on her body, said Thirion. Hospital officials, who are required to report all rape exami­nations to police, notified St. Joseph County authorities, prompting them to contact NDSP. 
Phillip Johnson. assistant direc­tor of NDSP, said he chose an immediate e-maU because stu­
see ASSAULT/page 4 day's outcome of this year's foot­ball ticket lottery distribution. 

"On a one to 10 scale, it was a 10," said Cappy Gagnon, coordi­nator of stadium personnel. "We've been doing this process for several years now ... so everybody, I think, is now so experienced with it that they just do it right. We did virtually the whole [senior] class today in about an hour [and] 45 min­utes." 
Josh Berlo, director of ticket­ing, said the process was rela­tively time-effective, with stu­dents waiting in line for 10 min­utes or less. Although other methods of ticket distribution have been discussed, such as completing applications online and through the mail, the lottery ticket system allows students to choose their neighbors in the 
see TICKETS/page 4 

Malloy celebrates opening mass 
By TRICIA DeGROOT 
News Writer 
Seated by dorm to demonstrate the unity of the Notre Dame fami­ly. students celebrated the start of the 2004-05 academic year in an opening mass held in the Joyce Center Tuesday evening. 
Father Edward Malloy, who presided over his final opening mass as University President. served as celebrant and homilist. He began his sermon by describ­ing the ambitions of Father Edward Sorin and his fellow founding Holy Cross members ­even sharing one of Sorin 's own letters with those in attendance. Malloy read part of a letter that Sorin wrote to Father Basil Moreau, founder of the Congregation of Holy Cross. about his dream for the future of Notre Dame duLac. 
see MASS/page 6 


Wednesday, August 25, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Home at last 
There are some that say you can't go 

home again, but I'd beg to differ. Going 
home is easy-it's being home that's the 
test. 
During my freshman year, I did a lot of 
growing-up. After my tame and struc­
tured high school experience it was 
inevitable that college would change me, 
but I didn't realize by how much until I 
tried to fit back 
into the world I 
Amanda Michaels 

left behind. I think I know 
Associate

what it means now, 
News Editor 

to be a square peg in a round hole. The air in my room felt stale; the scraps of paper and memory plastering its walls seemed to be yellowing prema­turely. Catching up with many of my old friends was like being introduced to a group of strangers, as I was stuffed into a mold that I had shattered long before. 
Suffocating in the hand-me downs of a former life, I saw no possibility of reprieve in the summer ahead, and no purpose at all to the hard-won changes. 
And then, a post office burnt down. 
A literal trial by fire, the day the Warrendale Post Office went up in !lames was the first time I was able to fully appreciate the work freshman year had done on me. I was an intern at the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, mainly relegat­ed to writing llulTy features for the weekly Suburban living section, when I was sent out to report breaking news. It was a consequence of being in the right place at the right time under the only editor who would trust a newly-minted freshman with a front page article, and it petrified me. 
Putting on a brave front, I made my way to the scene, feeling smaller and younger than ever as I clutched a note­book and pen in one hand, and a cell phone for desperate calls for help to my editor in the other. The area was swarming with reporters. many of whom I had watched on the nightly news for as long as I could remember. and hose water from the 10 fin~ trucks on the scene was flooding the street. 
Wet up to my knees, I sloshed around for a lead. Expecting everyone to ignore the teenager playing grown-up, I was shocked to find that people actually talked to me and treated me as an equal. Of course, some of the firemen were more inclined to give me a com­ment than the middle-aged male reporters, but other than that I was treated no differently. 
My confidence grew as I continued to blanket the scene, and during each interview I inwardly thanked every per­son and situation-no matter how try­ing-that gave me the maturity to han­dle what was being thrown at me. 
A whirlwind of hours later I was sit­ting in the parking lot of the Post­Gazette, my story filed, my hands clutch­ing the steering wheel and my resources tapped dry. But the burden of expecta­tion and stress I felt at the prospect of being published wasn't choking me; on the contrary, it was a great relief. The growing pains seemed justified, and rid­ing out the rest of the summer wasn't such a bleak prospect, now that I knew that it wasn't all in vain. 
Cured of my claustrophobia and in desperate need of a shower, I was ready to go home. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­lion and mives for rhe highesr srandards of journal­ism al all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make misrakes. If we have made a misrake, please conracl us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How WAS YOUR FIRST DAY OF CLASS? 









Colleen Clark Chris Ragnl Scott Hagan Sheena Bowman Christian Burdzlak Katherine Malkovsky 
Junior Freshman Freshman Junior Sophomore Junior Walsh Morrissey Dillon Breen-Phillips Stanford P.E. 
"Fantastic, I "You could tell "Hectic. I had "Fun and "Short, most of "It was only had one they were four classes, eventful. I just the teachers let surprisingly class and it freshmen and my love Transport me out early. " demanding. I 
started at I I." classes because philosophy Phenomena, my everyone was class was chemical 
there IS really big. " engineering minutes early, class." before the prof 
got there." 
Woman attempts scorpion record 
KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia -A Malaysian woman who's trying to reclaim a world record by living in a locked glass box with more than 6,000 scor­pions has been stung once, is suffering a fever and scarcely sleeps because the creatures keep crawling over her. 
Nur Malena Hassan, 27, said Wednesday she has a "'50/50 chance" of reaching her target of being cooped up with the poisonous arachnids for 36 consecu­tive days to set a new record for the longest stay 
TODAY a:: 


CLAIRE KELLEYffhe Observer 

Football coach Tyrone Willingham selects 199 as the winning number In the lottery for student season tickets Monday night. Seniors with numbers close to the win­ner began lining up outside the Stadium In the early hours of Tuesday morning In hopes of securing a prime location for their final year In the student section. 
OFFBEAT 

Liberty. See "Aida" on Broadway. Shop at Bloomingdale's. Ride a tour boat around the isle of Manhattan. 
Buy a funny hat. 
"There was a time you did things all day long," said Sen. Pete Domenici, chairman of the New Mexico delegation to the Republican National Convention. Things like work, he means. "Then it moved in the direction of 'Why work all that time? 
We're  just  inventing  
work."'  
Information  compiled  

from the Associated Press. 
in a room full of scorpions. 
''I'm feeling so much ten­sion," Nur Malena told The Associated Press by tele­phone from the specially built glass room that she moved into Saturday in a shopping mall in Kuantan, a city about 160 miles northeast of Kuala Lumpur. 
"Nighttime is the worst," she said. "I can only sleep two or three hours, since scorpions get so active at night." 
Republicans find work and play In the Big Apple 
NEW YORK -It's not exactly backbreaking work. Go to the Statue of 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
1.1.1 
:z:: 
E 
3: 
..I 
~ 
(.) 





0 

85 HIGH HIGH 90 HIGH
...I 

LOW 68 LOW LOW 70 LOW 
HIGH 
73 68 
88 68 
already have homework in four classes. " 
IN BRIEF 
Meet assorted Notre Dame athletic coaches and get a clean car at the Coaches Car Wash Thursday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the baseball parking lot. Proceeds from all $5 donations will benefit United Way. 
Play co-ree sand volleyball in a one-night only tourna­ment Thursday from 6 to 10 
p.m. on the Riehle Sand Courts. Bring your teammates and register at Bolfs in advance, then bump, set and spike under the lights. 
Beserve your place for "Twilight in the Press Box," a limited-seating event to benefit the Fischoff National Chamber Music Association. Open to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross faculty, the night's schedule includes a cash bar at 6:00 p.m .. din­ner at sunset, and a jazz per­formance by Triplicity. For reservations, call (574) 631­0984. 
Get ready for the first-ever fall football scrimmage, to be held in the Stadium from 7:30 to 8:45 p.m. Friday night. The scrimmage will be free and open to all student, faculty and staff members of the Notre Dame community. 
Come see Lucky Boys Confusion, a Chicago-based, self-described "ground-run­ning, unapologetic melodic rock" band in concert at Legends this Saturday night at 10 p.m. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
Atlanta 82 I 71 Boston 81 I 59 Chicago 78 I 65 Denver 83 I 54 Houston 92 I 77 Los Angeles 75 I 62 Minneapolis 75 I 56 New York 83 I 65 Philadelphia 82 I 60 Phoenix 102 I 79 Seattle 91 I 58 St. Louis 84 I 69 Tampa 91 I 76 Washington 83 I 65 
Wednesday, August 25, 2004 The Observer +CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND, SMC continue ca1npus construction over summer 

Clockwise: The completed Opus Hall apartments at Saint Mary's, the Jordan Hall of Science at Notre Dame and the Notre Dame security and post office facility are part of a construction boom for 2004. 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Writer 
Though most of the Notre Dame stu­dent body was absent, campus was all but silent over the summer as construc­tion crews busily worked to prepare for the 2004 school year. 
While the most visible fruit of these labors is the new Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, other developments also took shape. 
James Lyphout, vice president for business operations, said the 150,000 square foot performing arts building, which first broke ground in Oct. 2001 and cost an estimated $62.6 million, was finished earlier this summer. 
"Faculty moved in on July 1 and everything is on time and on schedule," he said. adding that there will be an official ceremonial dedication in late September or early October. 
Though the new performing arts building houses many offices and class­rooms, the main venues include a con­cert hall, a center theatre, an organ and chorale concert hall, a cinema and a studio theatre. 
Construction continued this summer on the new security and post office facility, located near Stepan Center, which will be finished in late December or early January. 
Also underway is the Guglielmino Family Athletics Center, located east of Rolf's Sports Recreation Center. This 100,000 square foot building will house a variety of facilities for varsity athletes, notably a 25,000 square foot strength and conditioning center, according to the University Architect Web site. 
Lyphout added that the new Jordan Hall of Science, which will contain lab space for undergraduates, as well as an observatory, greenhouse and herbari­um, should be finished by the summer of 2006. 
The completion of the performing arts center and the developments made on other construction projects represent the first significant progress since budg­et cuts and a decreased endowment forced the University to cut back on all construction projects, with the excep­tion of Legends, in recent years. 
"These buildings are primarily fund­ed, with the exception of the security/post office building, by benefac­tion and those gifts have allowed these buildings to move forward," Lyphout said. 
Students at Saint Mary's also returned to campus to find completed student apartments, which were finished less than a year after the College broke ground. 
"The Opus Hall apartments at Saint Mary's were finished the first week of August and all 72 beds are filled," said Nick Farmer, the director of marketing communications at St. Mary's. "The new apartments offer the independence of off-campus living to senior students." 
Construction is also underway on the new Student Center at the College, which, if all goes as planned, will be ready for use by mid-March, said Farmer. He added that Saint Mary's is also considering building a new aca­demic facility, though construction will not begin until fundraising is finalized. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
Observer 

GENERAL ADVERTISING POLICIES: -All advertising is subject to approval by The Observer General Board. -The General Board reserves the right to reject any advertisement for any reason without specifying the reason for the rejection. -Only publication ofan advertisement signifies acceptance by The Observer. -The Observer does not accept political advertisements from groups or individuals outside the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. The General Board reserves the right to determine the extent ofthe Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities. -All advertisements for establishments serving alcohol must include a "Must be 21 with valid identification" disclaimer ifalcohol sales are referenced or implied in the advertisement. -All advertisements from organized groups ofstudents or alumni unrecognized by the University or College must include a "'Group name' is not affiliated with the University ofNotre Dame or Saint Mary's College" disclaimer in the advertisement. -Advertisers shall defend and hold The Observer harmless from all claims, demands and/or litigation directly or indirectly related to improper or unauthorized use ofany photograph, drawing, likeness, name, logo, trademark, representation or any other material provided by The Observer in any advertisement. -The advertiser and advertising agency assume liability for all content and responsibility for any claims made against The Observer arising from the publication ofthe advertisement. 
DISPLAY ADVERTISING RATES: 
TYPE  RATE PER COLUMN-INCH  
National  $12.00  
Local  $7.00  
Campus Business  $5.25  
Campus Rate  $5.00  

*All rates are net rates -Spot color can be added for $1oo in addition to the ad price. -Football Insider ads cost $35 in addition to the ad 
SPACE RESERVATION DEADLINES: 
DEADLINE (3 PM)  RUN DATE  
Thursday  Monday  
Friday  Tuesday  
Monday  Wednesday  
Tuesday  Thursday  
Wednesday  Friday  

All reserved ads must be received by 12 PM the day before publication. 
PROOFS: Proofs may be created for any ad larger than n column-inches for $10. The deadlines for corrections to any proof is noon the day before publication. All proofs are property ofThe Observer. 
pnce. 
Advertising Department
-A discount is available for "Happy Birthday" ads. These cost $20. Larger ads will be charged the 
(574) 631-6900 
standard ad rate. One photo per ad. 
(574) 631-8840
-If a proof needs to be created for an advertisement, it will cost $10 in addition to the regular rate. 
email: observad@nd.edu 
Wednesday, August 25, 2004 
page4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
had about 15 minutes after that," he said. "It was fairly
Tickets 
quick." continued from page I A larger source of student -----------grumbling was the price of stadium. Gagnon said. season tickets, which was "Students have always increased to $159 and $212 wanted to choose who they for Notre Dame and Saint sit with, and then compete Mary's students respective­in some way to get there ly. Both Gagnon and Berlo early for tickets," he said, attributed the inflated price recalling the tradition of to athletic director Kevin students camping out in White's desire to fully fund line for tickets -a process all scholarship sports. that changed in 1999 "One of the means to fully because of problems with fund them was to jack the safety, litter and alcohol ticket prices," Gagnon said. consumption. "There's 26 varsity sports "We transferred to some-that seek to win a national thing that's a lot cleaner champ every year," Berlo and a heck of a lot more explained. "We are fully 
time efficient," Gagnon funded ... [but] with the said. cost of tuition going up, the Berlo said due to student cost of a scholarship goes reaction, the University has up. Ticket revenue is a explored the feasibility of major part of the revenue transitioning to an online that supports all of our 
ticket distribution system. sports." 
"It's something that we Students will continue to definitely want to do," Berlo receive tickets at a signili­said of online ticket distri-cant discount. 
bution. "We just want to "I have not heard any dis­support the students and cussions of changing the see that their needs are student discount or reduc­met." ing it," said Berlo. "We 
Students expressed over-want them to be affordable all satisfaction with the for the students." speed of the process. The lottery system allows 
"I thought it was pretty students to take applica­decent," said senior Jaimie tions to the stadium to Feltault. "The ushers were receive a random lottery great in getting people number. Applicants go in along." groups to receive sequential 
Her classmate Spencer lottery numbers that ensure McSorley concurred, saying seating together. that the process "went After the lottery number smoothly." is drawn. students travel to 
"We waited outside about the stadium to actually buy eight minutes and once we their season ticket booklets. were in the stadium and The first lottery number through the ticket line, we drawn has the first pick at seating. As students reach the stadium. tickets are dis­tributed in order of lottery numbers that are present. Seating begins with the lowest row number of one section, proceeds up to the top and then goes through the next section top to bot­tom. 
Although Feltault observed "a bit of inconsis­tency on what time people could go in [to the stadi­um]," Gagnon insisted that the process was fair. 
"We check every num­ber," said Gagnon. "If you don't come early, we'll take whoever's there. There are people whose times should have been the second half but they got in in the first half because some people slept in... but in the line itself was in sequence." 
Students with low lottery numbers can move to the front of the line for tickets. However, it is their respon­sibility to make sure they are in the appropriate line position Gagnon said. 
"Students are very reluc­tant to do this," he said. "They stand there like lumps because I guess it's not a 'cool' thing to do. We'd have students be behind somebody in line, and that was their choice, but we checked every num­ber as people came in." 
Berlo said that each ticket window has similar seats, so that groups going con­secutively might have seats several rows apart. 
Contact Katie Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

SMC naines Pierce nevv associate dean of faculty 
By KELLY MEEHAN NewsWrirer 
Saint Mary's political science profes­sor Patrick Pierce, who spent the last year serving as director of the College's Strategic Plan, was named Associate Dean of Faculty and director of the Center for Academic Innovation. 
As the associate dean, Pierce will extend his planning responsibilities to faculty and curriculum development. He said he hopes to earn further financial support for the academic life of the College by enhancing the array of grants that support faculty research, teaching, student learning and research. 
"Faculty and students work very hard at Saint Mary's College," Pierce said. "As a college we need to celebrate and rec­ognize those achievements. Additionally, we need to provide support so that fac­ulty and students can continue to excel." 
While building upon the existing pro­grams of his predecessors, Patrick 
Assault 
continued from page I 
dents may have missed a poster or phone call during the hectic environ­ment of move-in weekend. 
"The purpose of a timely notice was to alert students so that they could take measures to avoid further criminal activity," he said, but added that NDSP White and Marcia Rickard, Pierce said he wants to engage students and faculty in intellectually stimulating discussions on topics that address relevant, timely and pressing public questions. 
"I hope to encourage faculty and stu­dent participation in these areas, and to support their efforts," Pierce said. "I will also organize programming to support intellectual life." 
Pierce -who also serves on several committees that address issues such as rank and tenure of faculty, curriculum, grants for faculty development and vari­ous program grants for the Center for Academic Innovation -will play a vital role in the college's accreditation process, helping to manage the flow of professors' work in required self-study projects. 
Pierce has taught in the College's political science department since 1981, and served as department chair from fall 2000 until spring 2003. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
was unaware of a pattern or of any other incidents of this nature. 
Though no additional security patrol was assigned over the weekend as a result of this specific report, Johnson said officers try to provide a visible presence in potentially dangerous areas such as the lakes and parking lots. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 

ORIGINAL PIZZA 
Bruno's Pizza a family tradition since 1975 welcomes all students and faculty back for the 2004-2005 school year. Join the Bruno family for a huge Italian buffet Thursday evenings. For you convenience, transportation will be supplied from campus to Bruno's. While at Bruno's you will enjoy a full authentic Italian buffet approved by the Bruno family. 

• Remember Bruno's accepts reservations fot.Rarties of 10 or more so please call 2s-8-3320  Load: 4:45pm 5:45pm  
• For our cam_pus delive:ry §.pecial;.J~leasecall256·9000 or 273·38~0  

Depart:  Depart:  
5:00pm  6:30pm  
6:00pm  7:30pm  
8:30pm  

Arrive: 8:45pm 7:45pm 


ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, August 25, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pullout plan moves forward 
JERUSALEM -Israel's defense minister, undaunted by growing resistance within the ruling party to a planned pullout from the Gaza Strip, said Tuesday that the army's blueprint for the withdrawal will be ready next month. 
Gaza settlers charged that the government is already preparing to throw them out of their homes. 
Also Tuesday, Israel's attorney general urged the government to consider adopting an international convention governing the treatment of residents in occupied lands. This showed increased Israeli sensitivity to international criticism, particularly in the aftermath of a world court ruling against its contentious West Bank separation barrier. 
The barrier and the Gaza withdrawal are hallmarks of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's "disengagement" plan, which he says is meant to reduce friction between Israel and the Palestinians. 
Najaf Shiite insurgency weakens 
NAJAF. Iraq -A Shiite insurgency appeared to be weakening Tuesday night as Iraqi forces moved to within 200 yards of the revered Imam Ali Shrine and Iraq's defense minister once again demanded fighters loyal to a radical cleric surrender or face a violent raid. 
The militant force, which once waged fierce battles with U.S. troops throughout the Old City and Najaf's vast cemetery, seemed considerably diminished in number and less aggressive after days of U.S. airstrikes and relentless artillery pounding. 
In Baghdad, assailants bombed the con­voys of two government ministers in sepa­rate attacks that killed five people and a sui­cide bomber, but left the ministers unharmed, officials said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Senior officials faulted in abuses 
WASHINGTON-U.S. soldiers running the Abu Ghraib prison are mainly to blame for the inmate abuses there, but fault also lies with the Pentagon's most senior civilian and military officials, according to a report released Tuesday by an independent panel of civilian defense experts. 
Senior leaders did not establish clear guidelines on permissible techniques for interrogating various categories of prisoners held at Abu Ghraib and elsewhere in Iraq, the report said. 
High-level commanders failed to shift resources to an understaffed and ill-trained prison detention unit once it became appar­ent that the system was out of control, the report said. 
Time reporter avoids jail time 
WASHINGTON -Avoiding potential jail time, a Time magazine reporter has given a statement to prosecutors investigating the Bush administration leak of a covert CIA offi­cer's identity. 
In a statement Tuesday, Time said reporter Matthew Cooper agreed to give a deposition after Lewis "Scooter" Libby, Vice President Dick Cheney's chief of staff, personally released Cooper from a promise of confiden­tiality about a conversation the two had last year. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Sex offender charged in murder 
SOUTH BEND -A convicted sex offender was formally charged Monday with murder and arson in the death of his girlfriend's 14­year-old daughter. 
Nicole Dodd's body was found by firefight­ers Thursday night after a fire was reported at her mother's South Bend home. 
Joseph Grembowicz, 44, was arraigned by video conferencing from the St. Joseph County Jail, where he is being held without bond. An innocent plea was entered on his behalf and he asked for a court-appointed attorney for his Sept. 2 court appearance. 
Bush lawyer admits link to group 
President's campaign attorney discloses relationship with anti-Kerry veterans 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON A lawyer for President Bush's re-election campaign dis­closed Tuesday that he has been providing legal advice for a veterans group that is challenging Democratic Sen. John Kerry's account of his Vietnam War service. 
Benjamin Ginsberg's acknowledgment marks the second time in as many days that an individual associated with the Bush­Cheney campaign has been connected to the group Swift Boat Veterans for Truth, which Kerry accuses of being a front for the Republican incumbent's re­election effort. 
The Bush campaign and the veterans' group say there is no coordination. 
The group "came to me and said, 'We have a point of view we want to get into the First Amendment debate right now. There's a new law. It's very compli­cated. We want to comply with the law, will you keep us in the bounds of the law?"' Ginsberg said. "I said yes, absolutely, as I would do for anyone." 

Ginsberg said he never told the Bush campaign what he discussed with the group, or vice versa, and doesn't advise the group on ad strategies. records and veterans who Kerry, meanwhile, is the rate, union and unlimited 
"They have legal ques­served on Kerry's boat. subject of complaints by the donations known as soft tions and when they have "It's another piece of the Bush campaign and the money and imposed stricter legal questions I answer mounting evidence of the Republican National Com­rules on coordination them," Ginsberg said. He ties between the Bush cam­mittee accusing his cam­involving parties, candi­said he had not yet decided paign and this group," paign of illegally coordinat­dates and interest groups. whether to charge the Swift Kerry campaign spokesman ing anti-Bush ads with soft­Ginsberg contends that by Boat Veterans a fee for his Chad Clanton said of money groups on the offering legal advice to both work. Ginsberg's admission. "The Democratic side, allegations the Bush campaign and the 
Kerry's presidential cam­longer President Bush waits he and the groups deny. Swift Boat group, he has paign last week flied a com­to specifically condemn this Ginsberg also represented done nothing different than plaint with the Federal smear, the more it looks the Bush campaign in 2000 other election lawyers in Election Commission accus­like his campaign is behind and became a prominent Washington, including ing the Bush campaign and it." figure during the Florida attorneys for Kerry and the the Swift Boat Veterans for On Saturday, retired Air recount. Democratic National Com­Truth of illegally coordinat­Force Col. Ken Cordier He also served as counsel mittee who have also ing the group's ads. The ads resigned as a member of to the RNC in its unsuccess­advised soft-money groups. allege Kerry has lied about the Bush campaign's veter­ful lawsuit seeking to over­Representing campaigns, his decorated Vietnam War ans' steering committee turn the nation's campaign parties and outside groups service; the group's after it was learned that he finance law, which banned simultaneously is legal and accounts in a television ad appeared in the Swift Boat the national party commit­allowed under the law and have been disputed by Navy veterans' commercial. tees from collecting corpo-by the FEC, he said. 

RUSSIA 

No survivors found in crashes 
republic of Chechnya, where sepa­Moscow, at about 10:56 p.m. 
Associated Press 

ratist rebels have been blamed for a Tuesday, !TAR-Tass reported, citing 
MOSCOW -A Russian airliner series of terror strikes that have the Emergency Situations Ministry. crashed and a second disappeared claimed hundreds of lives. Rescuers found the jet's tail near from radar about the same time Witnesses reported seeing an the village of Buchalki, Interfax Tuesday night after both planes took explosion before the first plane reported. off from the Moscow airport, raising crashed about 125 miles south of A Tu-154 with 46 people aboard 
fears that terrorism was involved. Moscow, the agency said. lost contact with flight officials at There was no word on survivors The Interfax news agency said about the same time near Rostov­among the 88 people believed to be emergency workers spotted a fire on-Don, about 600 miles south of aboard the planes. about 600 miles south of Moscow in Moscow, !TAR-Tass quoted President Vladimir Putin ordered the region where the second plane Emergency Situations Ministry an investigation by the nation's top went missing. spokeswoman Marina Ryklina as 
intelligence agency, and security Putin ordered the Federal Security saying. The jet belonged to the was tightened at the nation's air­Service to investigate, Russian news Russian airline Sibir, which said the ports. agencies reported. The service is plane disappeared from radar 
Authorities were not ruling out the successor to the Soviet-era KGB. screens at about 11 p.m. Tuesday, terrorist attacks against the air­A Tu-134 airliner that apparently lnterfax reported. There were 38 craft. A presidential election was had 42 people aboard crashed in passengers and a crew of eight scheduled Sunday in the breakaway the Tula region, 125 miles south of aboard. 
Wednesday, August 25, 2004

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Provosts 
continued from page 1 
ciate provost and current Saint Mary's President, announced last winter her decision to depart Notre Dame and take leadership of the College. The search expanded following the Board of Trustees' decision in April to appoint Father John Jenkins the next University president and name John Affleck­Graves executive vice president. 
Linney replaces Mooney, who became president of Saint Mary's June 1. Maziar fills the position vacated by Affleck­Graves and Jacobs takes over for Jenkins, who is preparing to replace University President Father Edward Malloy following the conclusion of the current school year. 
This search was spearheaded by Hatch, who will now have the task of implementing a smooth leadership tran­sition within his office. 
Keeping a focus on undergraduate education 
Undergraduates who complain that the University turns a deaf ear to their concerns stand to gain a strong advo­cate in Jacobs, who was named profes­sor of the year in 2002. Jacobs will over­see undergraduate education, in addi­tion to international study programs. 
"I have tried to understand some of the challenges [undergraduates] face," said Jacobs, who will continue to teach this fall. "I couldn't imagine moving into this role ... if I hadn't had that prior role [as a professor]." 
As a Notre Dame chemistry professor for 16 years, Jacobs combined a focus on chemistry research with concern for quality undergraduate education. He also redesigned a main general chem­istry course to better respond to differ­ent learning styles and student patterns. 
In his new position, Jacobs hopes to continue work on many of these same 
interests. ''I'm carrying the conversation on at a higher level," he said. 
In particular, Jacobs intends to take a close look at the purpose of the under­graduate curriculum and evaluate its ability to meet students' needs, though not necessarily with the intent of mak­ing major revisions. 
"Why should a student need to take two semesters of philosophy?" Jacobs asked. "What are we hoping students will gain from that?" 
In tandem with this effort, Jacobs also intends to focus on improving the quali­ty of course information available to stu­dents. He will also place special empha­sis on discerning how freshmen students 
choose majors and inter­ests, and the factors that influence those deci­sions. 
Building the Notre Dame of the future 
With responsibilities that include budget administration, academ­ic space management and the ten-year plan, "Notre Dame 2010: Fulfilling the Promise," Maziar will help build the Notre Dame of the future, both literally and figuratively. 
"Why should a student need to take two semesters of philosophy? What are we hopping students will gain from that?" 
Dennis Jacobs associate provost 
While being the provost at the University of Minnesota, she also served on Notre Dame's Graduate Program Advisory Council. 
"That kept me abreast of what was happening at Notre Dame," she said. "It caused me to say, this might be a good time for me to be at Notre Dame." 
Hatch had originally contacted Maziar to help recruit new provosts. 
Maziar views Notre Dame as a unique institution and relishes the chance to be a part of it. 
"We can be taken seriously nationally. Other people will take notice of our sue­cess," Maziar said. "[Notre Dame)'s also small enough that we can experiment without all the overhead of a super-size university." 

Maziar also praised Notre Dame's Catholic identity and credited it as a key factor in her acceptance of the new position. 
"I was very active at the Newman [Catholic] Center at Purdue. I have always made a point of ... making the campus parish my home parish," Maziar said. 
Maziar will focus her energy on imple­menting Notre Dame's ten-year plan and creating a delicate balance among a variety of academic goals. 
"We have the opportunity to be very 
thoughtful ... about how we build these [graduate] programs," she said. "They're not sustainable if we sacrifice in any way the quality of undergrad­uate education." 
Strengthening academic life 
Linney comes to Notre Dame from the University of South Carolina, where she served as graduate stud­ies dean prior to chairing the school's psychology department. She will 
ovesrsee faculty promotion, tenure and governance, in addition to diversity efforts. Linney was unavailable for com­ment. 
Hatch said Notre Dame was attracted by Linney's experience with diversity initiatives, including several awards for her efforts in that area. 
"Her work has long dealt with mul­tiracial issues," Hatch said. "I think her greatest strength is that she's a wonder­ful problem solver." 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
Mass 
continued from page 1 
"We are inheritors of a great tradition of a glorious past," Malloy continued. "What will we do with this inheritance that has been passed on to us?" 
Calling Notre Dame a "community of faith, service, and learning," the University President said that as mem­bers of that community, "we are called to be agents of transformation in the Spirit." 
He challenged those attending to build on Father Sarin's dream and carry on the greatness of the Notre Dame tradi­tion. 
"We can recognize the power we rep­resent collectively to do great things," Malloy said. "I pray that together we might be blessed that the gift of the Spirit might give us courage, learning, and strength." 
New and returning students alike, along with members of the Notre Dame faculty and staff, celebrated with Father Malloy and the Holy Cross priests. A pic­nic, accompanied by live music and later fireworks, followed the opening mass and was celebrated on DeBartolo Quad. 
"The mass was a great bond of com­munity spirit at Notre Dame," said fresh­man Brian Brownschidle. 
Another freshman, Kara Fessler, agreed. 
"I think that it was great to see so many people at a mass that wasn't on a Sunday," she said. "It was a great way for the freshmen to see what the Notre Dame community is all about." 
"There is no better way to start off another academic year at a Catholic University than to gather together at mass and offer it up to the Lord," said senior Brad Leeman. 
Contact Tricia DeGroot at pdegroot@nd.edu 
C,a..a.p..~···· · ·u··... ···· ·s······.. ·.····....... · ,...NI···· ···........ ··S·T····. ·• ··B···.· · ~..• Meet the Staff Win a free ciintJet fot yout section!! Tours Wednesday, Aug .. 25 5:15 & 5:50pm 5-7pm Coleman-Morse Lounge  Check out the CoMo 6t) · n · L.. 1 f[Dlli  

---------------~ 
Wednesday, August 25, 2004 
MARKET RECAP 

fc,~':s 10,098.63 +25.58 
.,Same: ~: Composite Volume; 1,855 154 • 1,090,962,048 

AMEX 1,213.73 -6~12 
NASDAQ 1,836.89 -1.81 
NYS£ 6,382.51 -2.93 
S&PSOO 1,096.19 +0.51 
NIKK£/(Tokyo) 10,985.33 0.00 
FTS£ IOO(London) 4,407.50 +2.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.0 I -0.22 21.67 MICROSOFr CP (MSFT) 0.00 0.00 27.24 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.09 -0.21 18.97 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.29 0.03 10.33 APPLIED MATL (AMAT) -1.79 -0.29 15.93 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND 0.00 0.00 50.70 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.09 +0.04 42.83 
5-YEAR NOTE -0.09 -0.03 34.56 
3-MONTH BILL +2.71 +0.40 15.17 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.84 45.21 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -7.80 405.00 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.45 92.90 
Excha Rates 

YEN 109.65 
EURO 0.8277 
POUND 0.5578 
CANADIAN$ 1.3072 
IN BRIEF 
World Bank lends Brazil $1. 2B 
BRASILIA, Brazil -The World Bank announced Tuesday it will lend $1.2 billion to Brazil over the next four years to help protect the environment. 
Vinod Thomas, the World Bank's director for Brazil, said it was the bank's biggest single loan dedicated to protecting the environment of a single country. 
"Given the size of Brazil and the size of the problem and the quality of the government's project, it is a reasonable amount," Thomas said in video link from Washington. 
Brazil's environment minister, Marina Silva, said the money would be used to finance 10 projects ranging from protecting the Amazon rainforest to employing environmental ana­lysts. 
"For us, this is highly relevant," Silva said, adding that the loan should serve to shield environmental projects from any eventual budget cuts. 
Stock action slumps on Wall Street 
NEW YORK -Investors all but ignored another substantial retreat in oil prices Tuesday, leaving stocks mixed in a listless and lightly traded session. Tech stocks fell in response to a brokerage downgrade of Cisco Systems Inc., while blue chips got a boost from an upgrade of Caterpillar Inc. 
Although oil dipped briefly below $45 per barrel during the session, two days of falling prices weren't enough for cautious investors to get back into the market, despite very attractive prices. 
Investors were concerned that oil prices, which topped $49 per barrel late last week but closed down 84 cents at $45.21 on the New York Mercantile Exchange, could advance again. Another sharp rise could raise corporate costs and reduce consumer spend­ing, thus harming third-and fourth-quarter earnings 
"Without any real big economic or geopoliti­cal news here, the market's keying off of oil," said Jay Suskind, head trader at Ryan Beck & Co. "But we're in the dog days of August here, so there's just not going to be a lot of volume or conviction here." 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS 
page 7 

Metal beer bottles made available 
Pittsburgh Brewing Company asks $1 more per case for beer that stays colder 
Associated Press  
PITTSBURGH ~ How  
much would you pay for a  
bottle of beer that stays  
cold nearly an hour  
longer?  
Pittsburgh Brewing Co.,  
maker of Iron City Beer, is  
asking an additional $1  
per case.  
The brewery has part­ 
nered with Alcoa Inc., the  
world's largest aluminum  
maker, to produce alu­ 
minum bottles that keep  
beer colder for as much as  
50 minutes longer than a  
glass bottle, Alcoa officials  
said.  
About 20,000 cases of  
the new aluminum bottle  
beer are en route to as  
many as 28 states and  
should be on shelves this  
week, Alcoa and  
Pittsburgh Brewing said  
Tuesday.  
The bottles have three  
times the aluminum of a  
typical beer can. That  
gives them superior insu­ 
lation, Alcoa spokesman  
Kevin Lowery said.  
It's not the first time  
Alcoa has teamed up with  
the local brewery to put  
out a new product. In  
1962, the two put the first  
pull-tab beer cans on  
shelves, freeing beer  
drinkers of the need to  
carry openers with them.  
"We think it's much bet­ 
ter than a can and as good  
or better than glass," said  
Joe Piccirilli, vice chair­ 
man for Pittsburgh  
Brewing. "There's no  
APdoubt in my mind that this  
One of the new aluminum bottles Introduced by the Pittsburgh-based Iron Cityhas the same potential as  
the pull tab we did with Beer is now available to consumers for $1 more per case.  
Alcoa."  of cans, 43 percent from  the product to thousands,  aluminum is coated. But,  
Iron City wants to  bottles and 8 percent from  who might buy a case for  he said, there may be a  
expand sales. But the alu­ the tap, according to the  home.  lingering taste when the  
minum bottle may be more  Beer Institute, which  Pittsburgh Brewing said  seal of an aluminum can is  
important to Alcoa. The  tracks industry trends.  it won't drop glass bottles  broken.  
aluminum giant wants to  Bottles, however, have  or cans from production.  The aluminum bottle  
win back a share of the  gained ground over the  Some people say they  could eliminate that, he  
market it lost to beer bot­ past decade.  can taste the difference  said.  
tles both glass and plastic,  Plastic bottles make up  between beer in cans and  One microbrewery based  
which are now common at  only 0.5 percent of all beer  bottles.  in Missoula, Mont., has  
sporting events nation­ sales, according to the  Lew Bryson, an author  been using aluminum bot­ 
wide.  Beer Institute. But having  of two books on breweries.  tles. Heineken released a  
About 40 percent of all  aluminum bottles at sport­ said those complaints are  limited edition aluminum  
beer consumed comes out  ing events would introduce  psychological, since the  bottle last year.  

GREAT BRITAIN 

Major airline cancels over 50 flights 
and I now have to queue up to try and handlers and check-in staff more pay.
Associated Press 

get myself booked on a later flight." Workers complain they are underpaid 
LONDON -Thousands of disgrun­British Airways pulled the plug on and overworked, particularly during tled vacationers were stranded at 31 flights to and from short-haul des­the busy summer vacation periods at Heathrow Airport on Tuesday after tinations in Britain and Europe on Heathrow. British Airways canceled scores of Tuesday a day after it scrapped 25 Most flights operated by the airline, flights because of staff shortages and flights to the United States and other which usually carries about 100,000 technical hitches. European destinations. passengers a day, were delayed by 
Passengers at Europe's busiest air­The airline said it was short about several hours. British Airways said it port slept on benches, joined long 120 staff at Heathrow. Several airline expected at least 8,000 travelers to be lines to rebook their flights or simply staff members left unexpectedly at the directly affected by the end of gave up and returned home as the beginning of the summer and large Tuesday. airline grounded 56 flights over two numbers were away on sick leave, a The disruption at the height of the days. spokesman said. British Airways is summer vacation season made head­
"To be told that they've got no staff recruiting more staff. line news across Britain and some is ludicrous," said Tom Edmonds, 36, The airline last week headed off a commentators suggested the airline whose flight to Nice, France, was can­strike for the Aug. 28-31 public holi­could find it tough to win back public celed. ''I'm only going for four days, day in Britain by offering baggage favor. 

Wednesday, August 25, 2004
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

are~ upgrad,ed? 
verston 3.0 
featuring co-head I iners: 

Jason mraz 
friday august 27th 2004, doors open at 8:30pm, show begins at 9pm live at the Joyce Center Gate 1 0-$10 tickets available at LaFortune NO, SMCI and Holy Cross Students Only-Must have a valid 10 to purchase tickets and to enter www.nd.edu/-theshow 

'-'·'''""...,.,.,...,,~,,.,._......,.....,,.,_,...,..,......., ......._.,,,_....,.,,_,.,...,,,....._..................,.,,,._..,.,,~.,..-..,_.._.,, ............... _ .......... ,,._ ...... ,._•.,...,..,~,,,,..._,.~._,,._. ................. ,,,,,,._,..,.,.......,.,,_.,,...._._,,,.. ..,,.,,,,,,,w-,....._.........,., .............,...._.,_.,..,.,•._.,._,...._._._._._. ........_..•,..,..,,,,.....,•.• ,,,.,.,.,.,,,._._,,,,.,_..._...., ...... .._. • ...._.,,,_.,.,,...,. .... ._._.,...oA•o..,.,._,,,,,._.,,,,,,l'-,,,,,, • ._.,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,..,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,n,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,_.,,,,,,,,,,,,,•••• 



Wednesday, August 25, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Professor 
continued from page 1 
Department, the Department of Homeland Security asked offi­cials to "invalidate the petition on which [Ramadan's] visa was based," said State Department press officer Darla Johnson. Johnson cited Section 221 (a) (3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, which includes tightened immigration restric­tions under the post-September 11 USA Patriot Act, but would not provide any additional infor­mation. 
Ramadan's situation was kept silent from the public while Notre Dame worked to resolve it, University spokesman Matt Storin said. Ramadan previously taught at the College of Genevva and the University of Fribourg in Switzerland. 
While Starin said the University did anticipate possi­ble delays in Ramadan's approval due to increased secu­rity measures nationwide ­especially as pre-election buzz has centered on terrorism alerts -the scholar's previous visits to the country, including four visits to Notre Dame for lectures and job interviews, had been without incident. As a European citizen, Ramadan travels freely across the Atlantic, but has now been forbidden from accepting an appointment to work in the United States. His tenured, chaired position at Notre Dame was to have formally begun in mid-August, Starin said. 
"The fact that it was revoked at the 11th hour seems like a calculated political move by his opponents," Kroc director Scott Appleby said. 
Ramadan's opponents are in no short supply. Accused by Jewish groups in France and the United States of spreading anti­Sematic and Islamic militant ideas, Ramadan stirred further debate following the news of his appointment at Notre Dame. With a reputation for engaging in intellectual discourse with Muslim groups that "aren't sold on the idea that democratic soci­eties that value freedom are consistent with Islam," Appleby said his new hire raised eye­brows-but never suspicions. 
"Some people think he's insin­cere and he's trying to import militant Islam into American society, but obviously those of us on the faculty who supported his appointment do not feel this way," Appleby said. "We certain­ly knew that he is a controver­sial figure, but that in itself did­n't deter us because we judged him on the basis of his ideas." 
These ideas, while not always popular among Ramadan's peers, were always "within range of reasonable academic discourse," Appleby said, prais­ing Ramadan's appetite for open dialogue between faiths. 
"He encourages [Muslim groups] to enter into and help shape democratic society," Appleby said. "He also wants 'Western' societies to . . . make room for and respect religious practices and religious beliefs that are not secular, are not Christian, are not Jewish." 
While Kroc Islamic scholar Rasheed Omar serves as his immediate replacement in Islamic Ethics, a sophomore seminar that was the sole course he was scheduled to teach this semester, Ramadan remains in limbo in Geneva, Switzerland, Starin said. He added that while the University has made inquiries in Washington since the visa was invalidated, there has been no indication of when or how the situation will be resolved. 
However, Boyd noted that Ramadan has the option to reapply and argue his case with State Department ofllcials. 
Appleby, who spoke with Ramadan Tuesday but could not provide an official comment from the scholar, remained hopeful that he would eventually arrive at Notre Dame. 
"We ultimately have to have some faith in the fairness of our system," Appleby said. "At this point we're holding out for that." 
The Observer was unable to contact Ramadan. 
Teresa Fralish contributed to this report. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 

Search for Boy Scout continues 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY -The search for a missing 12-year-old Boy Scout in a mountainous area of Utah was officially labeled a recovery operation Tuesday as authorities all but gave up hope of fmding the boy alive. 
"This is a great loss for my family right now," the boy's father, Kevin Bardsley, told reporters. 
Garrett Bardsley was last seen Friday morning, when his father sent him back to camp after the boy got his shoes and pants wet while fishing in a pond near a lake. The campsite has been described variously as 150 yards to a quarter mile from the lake on a well-established path. 
Dozens of searchers have spent the last three days search­ing for Garrett, who was wear­ing sweat pants, a T-shirt and a black hooded sweat shirt and tennis shoes. He had no food or backpack. 
The search has been ham­pered by cold, wet weather. Rain mixed with snow fell on searchers Monday, and the tem­perature plunged to 18 degrees overnight. On Tuesday, the high hovered around 50 degrees, said Sheriff Dave Edmunds. 
The official search likely will tail off by the end of the week, Edmunds said, "but we're never going to stop looking." 


'0· t~w~:~r'·~•lt ·~~"If'
:~\~,~~(.)~;~~~~-'. c. 
... ,,,~~ .,. , ,.,, . _.-,.. ,•. • ....,<o,/11,,,~'11\d.tt~~T~"''''·{-~. 
'l:~Je,Qbl~ N$wii~Notra Dame Students 
Coupoa. V&tkf: At Any GoodwJit 
lmiiRrltrinvt~· ~ ~hid· I~ ~~ 
I -..m,--:.7 .,_,. s.t,--9 -...-e P,.M.
....,_.:a~-5fLM. 
la.JfM~ 
Auptt. D,. 20M 

1357 lromvuod Dri....·c; So11th Bend, I!' 
•ALLmMS 
=O.G~Ptrt·=~w ·~·lllf·~-~~ 
• e·e, rtaru 
N61il1,1111111111R lfCiMJJtrft, 
---··· w~ 

FRANCE 
Parisians fete 60 
years of liberation 
Associated Press 
PARIS-The Champs-Elysees, free at last, was awash with wild joy on Aug. 25, 1944. But deep in the heart of France the war raged on, with Frenchmen killing Frenchmen to aid a desperate Germany. 
And now, 60 years later, the people who suffered most are among the staunchest supporters of a new Europe in which France and Germany are, essentially, just two members of a 25-nation super-state. 
"This is the great triumph of the 21st century," said Jean­Marie Delabre, 81. "Peace is accepting the idea that you must live with others and forge natural differences into something stronger." 
He added: "I don't think I'd have said that a few years after the war." While Paris celebrated, his Resistance unit fought on near Dijon. Captured, he was in German prison camps until armistice in May 1945. 
With time, Delabre decided that since wars are much easier to start than to finish, the only answer is to avoid them. 
"A united Europe is a lesson for the rest of the world," he con­cluded. 
War that left millions dead had not only pitted France against its ancient neighbor and foe, it also forced deep divisions among the French themselves. Some resis­ted, but many col­laborated. 
Jacques Delarue, "When it ended, we street and a now 85, heard only had all more half-eaten tin of faint echoes of the Army rations
important things to
joy in Paris from his will be grabbed Vichy France worry about, like up out of the prison cell in finding out family gutter." Limoges. Life writer
members and
"We all thought William Walton
repairing our lives. " 
the war would be described how over after Paris, but he liberated the we were wrong," girls of the
Jacques Delarue 
he said. "That just Moulin Rouge.
liberation survivor 
increased the bit­terness and deep­ened divisions between collabo­rators and real Frenchmen." 
As allies pushed toward Paris, he said, he watched the French milice, militiamen loyal to Germany, sweep into the prison yard to deal with three captured French Resistance fighters. 
"I could hear it all from my cell," he said. "The three were tried, sentenced, lined up against a wall and shot. The whole thing was over in less than an hour. Such things went on all the time." 
But today, like nearly every one of dozens of veterans interviewed by The Associated Press, he laud­ed efforts to meld ancient foes into a modern union. "We have to stop old stupid rivalries," he said. 
People who remember Aug. 25, 1944, are celebrating it with a bittersweet mix of emotions. For many, the horror and humiliation of occupation did not sink in until years, ifnot decades, later. 
"When it ended, we had all more important things to worry about, like finding our family members and repairing our lives," Delarue said. "Only later did we have the luxury of analyz­ing things." 
Almost immediately, the French army was off extinguish­ing colonial brush fires in Asia and Africa, including a war that spread in Vietnam and ended only in 1954. 
Although liberators found Germans had mined the bridges over the Seine, it was 20 years before most people realized the danger Paris had faced. 
Larry Collins, co-author of "Is Paris Burning?", told the AP his idea for the book came only in 1962 after he saw an item in a London newspaper about Hitler's obsession with obliterating the City of Light. 
"Before then. hardly anyone knew of the threat Paris had faced and how narrowly it escaped," he said. "When we started researching, we found an elaborate plot." 
By then, feelings had mel­lowed. 
"I've never sensed any hostility at all, even when I first came here as a 14-year-old girl in the 1960s," said Sabine Martin, a German businesswoman who lives happily in Paris. 
John Morris, 87, reached Paris five days after Liberation and is still here. He was Life magazine photo editor, and his archives contain the Sept. 11, 1944, edi­tion with the headline: "Paris Is Free Again." 
Charles Wertenbaker wrote, "Paris still looks like Paris -a little dirty and scarred with no irreparable damage. Notre Dame is chipped from machine-gun bullets ... and these scars will merge with the scars of time." 
Still, he noted, the people were desperate: "Pretty women dive 
for cigarette 
butts on the 
Crossing Paris 

under a hail of flowers, he wrote, "I estimate I kissed a thousand females, from 2 to 90 ... For one night, every American was a Lindbergh." 
But joy was tempered with death. Even now, no one knows how many hundreds of service­men and civilians died in the fight for Paris. From one end of the city to the other, plaques recall the victims: men, women and teenagers. 
By the Place de Ia Concorde, fresh flowers grow under a row of 10 marbled plaques in an old stone wall. The first remembers Marcel Bizien, a tank command­er in the French 2nd Armored Division. 
Bizien's tank fought a high­noon duel with a German Tiger on the Champs-Elysees on Aug. 
25. The French gunners destroyed the Nazi tank with a direct hit, but they were killed in the aftermath. 
Jacques Fouet, 81, was a fire­man who in the final days put on an army uniform to hunt down Germans. He watched that tank battle with a mix of pride for a revived France and hatred for Nazis who caused such pain. 
Nowadays, Fouet says he is thrilled to see tight new links between old adversaries. "I have always said that on the day Germany and France come to an understanding, there will be no more war in Europe." 
Wednesday, August 25, 2004 

page 10 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 
Scott Peterson's tnistress testifies 
cally that he didn't have anything Associated Prus 
to do with it, right?" 
REDWOOD CITY, Calif. -Scott "There were times he said 
Peterson's former mistress there were some things that he 
acknowledged at his murder trial couldn't talk about," Frey replied. 
Tuesday that Peterson never tried She told Geragos she could not 
to stop her from going to police remember if police told her she 
about their affair. was not getting any useful infor­
In his cross-examination of mation. Amber Frey, defense attorney Geragos played a tape on Mark Geragos also noted which Peterson could be heard Peterson never said anything saying: "I also have nothing to incriminating in his wiretapped hide in her disappearance. And if phone conversations you, you know, if with Frey. In addi­you want to go to tion, Frey admitted the police, that's,
"They didn't get 
Peterson never told you know, fine." 
anything
her he loved her -"He told you it apparently refuting incriminating on was your deci­prosecutors' allega­sion, right?"
him." 
tions of Peterson's Geragos asked motive for killing his Frey. pregnant wife. Mark Geragos "Correct," Frey 
Frey's testimony, defense lawyer said. which concluded Geragos sug-Tuesday, came after gested Peterson's jurors heard about 40 wire­evasive answers on many of the tapped telephone calls between taped telephone calls came at the Frey and Peterson. advice of his previous attorney. In 
In the phone calls, Peterson a call played for the jury, romanced Frey while denying his Peterson could be heard saying of involvement in the disappearance his lawyer: "He said, "You should of his pregnant wife Laci, and not be talking to her." And he proclaiming his love for the miss­said, "They are going to try to ing woman. Frey recorded their make a case against you."" calls for months before police told Frey testified Peterson never her she could stop. told her he loved her: "Not in 
"They didn't get anything those words." incriminating on him," Geragos Prosecutors claim it was said. "He kept telling you specifi-Peterson's love for Amber that 

drove him to murder his wife. 
The defense has sought to por­
tray Frey as a calculated seduc­
tress and liar who was more 
obsessed with Peterson than he 
was with her. 

"At the end of the day, her testi­mony does not make or break their case," former prosecutor Chuck Smith said of Frey's testi­mony. 
Trial observer Jim Hammer, a former prosecutor, said the tapes showed Peterson is a liar but did not implicate him in the slaying. He also said Geragos was able to portray the affair "as more of a fling than an obsession and a motive for murder." 
Later Tuesday, Stanislaus County district attorney's office investigator Steven Jacobson tes­tified he set up wiretaps on Peterson's cell phones and received authorization to tap Peterson's mother's phone ­which ultimately was not done. He is due back on the stand Wednesday. 
Prosecutors allege Peterson killed his wife in their Modesto home around Dec. 24, 2002, then dumped her weighted body from a boat into San Francisco Bay. The remains of Laci Peterson and the couple's unborn son washed up a few months later, not far from where Peterson claimed he had gone fishing the day he reported her missing. 
Producer hires m_ob defense lawyer 
Associated Press LOS ANGELES-Music produc­er Phil Spector has hired an attor­ney who used to work for mob boss John Gatti to defend him on murder charges after his previous attorney resigned from the case. Leslie Abramson said Tuesday that she and her co-counsel resigned as Spector's attorneys but were taken by surprise when Bruce Cutler filed a motion to take over the case while Abramson was out of the country. "We were put in an untenable position, and we were forced to resign," Abramson said in a phone interview with The Ao;sociated Press. "If we wanted to be ethical and competent, we had to resign." She declined to elaborate. Cutler, speaking from New York, said he has known Spector for a long time and had signed on as his personal attorney before Abramson and Marcia Morrissey took over the criminal case. "I was engaged as Phillip's attorney and confidante last January," he said. "Leslie and Marcia were brought on in February. and they quit in July. They just jumped ship, and I had to take control of the ship and 
bring it into port." 
Federal prosecutors in New York have portrayed Cutler as "house counsel" for the Gambino crime family. He won three trials for Gotti before prosecutors were able to get him disqualified from the defense team by playing 1990 tape recordings on which he had conversations with Gotti about other defendants. 
Gatti died in prison 

Spector, 64, is free on $1 million bail. 
Abramson was hired in February to replace Spector's original attorney, Robert Shapiro, who was a member of O.J. Simpson's defense team. 
Later, Stewart asks if the group was still holding hostages. 
When told it was, Stewart's 
comments are in 
dispute, so the 
in 2002. Spector, famed for creating rock 'n' roll's "wall of sound" recording technique  "We were put in an untenable position."  jury got two ver­sions in a tran­script. The gov­ernment version has Stewart say­ 
in the 1960s, is charged in the fatal shooting of Lana Clarkson at his man­ Leslie Ambramson attorney for Phil Spector  ing, "That was a very," a comment surrounded by unintelligible  

sion in February 2003. 
Clarkson, 40, had gone home with him from the House of Blues on the Sunset Strip where she was a hostess. She was best known as the star of Roger Corman's cult film classic "Barbarian Queen." 
The case is scheduled for a pre­liminary hearing on Oct. 20. Cutler said they would seek to postpone the hearing to get up to date on the proceedings. 
remarks. 

The defense version has her saying. "Thats so sad.... That was a very," followed by an unintelligible remark. 
Throughout the several hours of prison visits, Stewart can be heard interrupting conversations between Yousry and the sheik when she believes guards are about to enter. She also can be heard joking about the efforts to keep guards at bay. "I can get an Academy Award for it," she says. 

·--------------------------­
9 0 rJAYS FREE COOLER RENfAL 
20 G-ALLONS OF WAfER FREE 

*New customers only *Deposit required expires 9/30/04 
---------------------------· 
Prosecutors present video evidence at trial 
Grainy images show civil rights lawyer conversing with convicted terrorist 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Prosecutors on Tuesday presented the core of their terrorism case against a civil rights lawyer: grainy videos of her meetings with a jailed Egyptian sheik she allegedly helped to com­municate with followers. 
A hidden camera at a fed­eral prison in Rochester, Minn., recorded conversa­tions of lawyer Lynne Stewart, Arabic interpreter Mohamed Yousry and Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman, who is serving a life sentence. 
Prosecutors contend the videotaped conversations prove a conspiracy among the three to aid terrorists. Also charged in the case is postal worker Ahmed Abdel Sattar, who had served the sheik as a paralegal and interpreter. 
Authorities have said Stewart and Yousry enabled the sheik to smuggle danger­ous messages to the outside world -despite prison rules severely limiting the sheik's visitors, mail, telephone calls and consultations with lawyers. 
In the videotapes, played on a large screen in federal court in Manhattan, the three can be heard talking about their hopes that keep­ing Abdel-Rahman's name on the world stage might some­day get him freed from prison. 
Stewart represented the 
Wednesday.August25 

sheik at a 1995 trial in which 
he was convicted of conspir­
ing to assassinate Egyptian 
President llosni Mubarak 
and to bomb five New York 
landmarks including the 
United Nations. 
"I think that the whole prosecution, I thought that from the first day, was politi­cally, uh. motivated," Stewart says on a videotape. 
In another spot. Yousry tells the sheik about a group in the Philippines that took hostages. He says a newspa­per story failed to mention the group wanted to free the sheik. 
"And Hamzi Yousef," the sheik adds, referring to the man now imprisoned for life in the United States after he was convicted of master­minding the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, which killed six people and injured more than 1,000 others. 
Stewart responds: "Good for them. I didn't read that, either." 
Later, Stewart asks if the group was still holding hostages. 
When told it was, Stewart's comments are in dispute, so the jury got two versions in a transcript. The government version has Stewart saying, "That was a very," a com­ment surrounded by unintel­ligible remarks. 
The defense version has her saying, "That's so sad.... That was a very," followed by an unintelligible remark. 
10011·1005 
on event1 
graduate student antiOlral aniversi1:y ofnotn? dome 
Iafortune mezzanine notre dame, IN 46556 Tel: (574) 631.6963 Fax: (574) 631.6810 Email: gsu.1@nd.edu 

-Library Instruction Session 12:00-1:00pm [222 Hesburgh Library] -Football Ticket Distribution 2:00pm [NO Stadium Box Office] 
Thursday. August 26 
-Graduate Student & Family Picnic 5:30-7:00pm [Fischer-O'Hara Graduate Residences] Graduate, Law, and MBA Students invited 
Tuesday. August 31 -Library Instruction Session 4:30-5:30pm [222 Hesburgh Library] 
Special Thanks to our Co-Sponsors: Student Activities, Campus Ministry, Alumni Association, Graduate School, Law School, Mendoza School of Business, and FOG Student Residences 
Wednesday, August 25, 2004 
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page II 
JAPAN 
Lawyers sue to block deportation 
Japanese will not immediately deport Fischer 
engaged to a Japanese In recent years, Fischer
Associated Press 
woman. He also has has emerged from silence in 
TOKYO -Japan will not demanded to meet with U.S. radio broadcasts and on his immediately deport former embassy officials. Web page to express anti­world chess champion Bobby Fischer's supporters said Semitic views and rail Fischer to the United States, they were confident he will against the United States. where he is not be sent to On a Web site Fischer's wanted for vio-the United supporters acknowledge to lating interna-States. be his home page, Fischer tional sanctions, "Once we get launches numerous attacks Japanese and "It should take a this battle onto on Jews and decries the 
U.S. officials little while. " a level playing "international Jewish con­
said Wednesday. field. then spiracy" and "Jew-controlled Justice Bobby Fischer U.S.," which he says are
ltsue Noto

Minister Daizo should pre­behind plots to both rule the Nozawa rejected Japanese Immigration vail," said John world and ruin his life. At Fischer's appli­office spokesman Bosnitch, a one point, the site denies the 
cation for politi­cal asylum Tuesday and issued an order to deport him, but the chess legend's lawyers immediate­ly sued to block the order, winning him a temporary reprieve. 
"It should take a little while," immigration office spokesman Itsuo Noto said about the deportation. 
Fischer was detained on immigration violations July 13 after allegedly trying to board a plane for the Philippines with an invalid 
U.S. passport. He is wanted by the United States for vio­lating international sanc­tions against Yugoslavia in 1992. 
He claims the charges against him are politically motivated and has tried a number of steps to thwart his deportation, such as say­ing he would renounce his 
U.S. citizenship and getting 
Tokyo-based Holocaust. adviser to Fischer's animosity toward Fischer. "We his homeland is well-known, are going to and he once praised the 
hang on and we are going to Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in fight." a radio interview, saying 
Fischer rose to chess star­America should be "wiped dom by defeating Boris out." Spassky, formerly of the Fischer has tried a number Soviet Union, in a series of of steps to thwart his depor­
games in 1972 to  tation since he  
claim the world  was  taken into  
championship. However, the chess legend became increas­ "We are going to hang on and we are going to fight."  custody. He first said he w 0 u l d renounce his  
ingly erratic and  U.S.  citizen­ 
reclusive after the Spassky match and lost  John Bosnltch advisor to Fischer  ship. He then got engaged to the head of the  
his title as world  Japan  Chess  
champion  in  Association,  a  
1978.  Japanese  woman who said  

In a 1992 rematch against they had been living togeth­Spassky, Fischer won and er for the past four years. collected more than $3 mil­Spassky also rushed to his lion in prize money, violating aid, writing a letter to 
U.N. sanctions by attending President Bush asking him the match held in the former to show Fischer mercy and Yugoslavia. not seek his extradition. 
Welcome back ND and SMC students! 
Kaplan representatives will be in the Hesburgh Library from 9am-3pmon the 25th & 26th to accept enrollments,. answer questions and to register students for free GMATf GRE, LSAT and MCAr· practice tests~ 
Fall classes fill quickly.. Reserve your seat today! 
1·800-KAP-TEST
KAPLAN'' 
kaptest.com 
Test Prep and Admissions 

INDIA 
Truck driver strikes send prices soaring 
Associated Press 
NEW DELHI -Prices for food and essential commodi­ties spiraled upward Tuesday as thousands of truck drivers in India ignored a government appeal to call off a four-day­old nationwide strike. 
Meanwhile, in Bombay, India's financial hub, hun­dreds of thousands of bank employees staged a daylong strike to demand higher wages. 
The prices of vegetables, fruit and other foods were up by as much as a third at mar­kets in New Delhi, amid fears the truckers would go through with a threat to stop delivering all food items beginning Wednesday. 
The truckers are protesting a new 10 percent service tax on trucking included in the government budget being con­sidered by parliament. A truckers strike against a simi­lar proposal in 1997 lasted 10 days until the government dropped the tax. 
After three rounds of incon­clusive talks Tuesday, Finance Minister Chidambaram urged truck operators to end the strike, saying it was hurting ordinary citizens. 
"Innocent people should not be made a victim of a totally baseless strike," Chidambaram said. "The gov­ernment is always willing to discuss issues with any section of the people." 
The All India Motor Transport Congress, the largest trade group of truck owners in the country, has threatened to keep its mem­bers' 2.4 million trucks off the roads until November if the government does not with­draw the tax. 
"We have made our stand 
very clear to the government that the issue of service tax ... is not negotiable," B.N. Dhumal, president of the trade group, told Dow Jones Newswires. 
Although fruit and vegetable markets in New Delhi received their regular supplies of pro­duce Tuesday, prices have been rising as shoppers buy up extra food in fear of a pro­longed shutdown. 
"Potatoes were selling for rupees 12 (25 cents) yesterday. Today it's touched 16 rupees. It's the same with all other vegetables," said Neelu Arora, an office worker in the Indian capital. 
In Bombay, while most bank workers stayed home for the day, more than 1,000 marched in a heavy rain, chanting demands for raises while tying up traffic in the business dis­trict for an hour. 
The strike against nine state-run banks was backed by nine major unions whose political affiliations range from Hindu nationalists to leftists to the centrist Congress party, which heads the government. 
The banks have proposed a 
9.5 percent pay raise, but the unions are demanding 16 per­cent, the Press Trust of India news agency said, quoting Lalit Nagda, joint secretary of the All India Bank Employees Association.Marshall, President Harry Truman's emissary. The Associated Press was the only foreign news organization to stay in Yan'an. 
The Chinese had dug their caves in 1938 to house hospi­tals, universities, newspapers and training schools after Japanese air raids reduced the walled city to rubble. The Dixie Mission dug its own caves on arrival in 1944. 



STPAUL 
TRAVELERS 
www.stpaultravelllr&.eom 
page 12 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, August 25, 2004 
SUDAN 
Red Cross announces ITiassive Sudan airlift 
Associated Press 
AL-FASHER The 
International Committee of the 
Hed Cross said Tuesday it was 
mounting a major airlift of relief 
supplies to Sudan's troubled 
Darfur region, its largest such 
operation since the war in Iraq. 
Sudan's interior minister. meanwhile, said a cease-fire with rebel factions in Darfur was vio­lated twice on the opening day of peace talks that aim to bring an end to the crisis. 

The United Nations terms Darfur the world's worst human­itarian crisis. More than 30,000 people have been killed and 1.4 million forced to flee their homes in the 18 months of fighting between African rebel groups and Arab militia known as the Janjaweed. 
Interior Minister Abdel-Hahim Hussein said Monday's attacks by Sudanese Liberation Army fight­ers, which left several police injured, did not bode well for peace talks in Ahuja, Nigeria, which opened the same day. But he insisted the government remains committed to the peace process. 
"It still means we continue the talks because we think the only way to reach a solution is through negotiation," he told The Associated Press after visiting the scene of one attack -a police post responsible for secu­rity at Zam Zam refugee camp, 10 miles south of the regional capital, Al-Fasher. 
He said the second attack was 
on a police car near Tawilah, 35 
miles west of Al-Fasher. 
It was not possible to inde­pendently confirm the attacks or the affiliations of the perpetra­tors. But at Al-Fasher's military air base, two men wearing blue police uniforms, suffering appar­ent leg injuries, lay on stretchers in a room pockmarked with bul­let holes from a rebel attack last year. 
Announcing plans to launch a major airlift to the region, the Red Cross said it was planning six trips carrying trucks, other equipment and medical supplies by Sept. 5. 
"The aim is to improve ICRC access to thousands of people still deprived of urgently needed humanitarian aid and to provide further supplies to meet vital health and water needs," the agency said. 
The peace talks in Nigeria are a last-minute attempt for progress before Monday's U.N. Security Council deadline for Khartoum to disarm the Arab militia accused of terrorizing African farmers or face economic and diplomatic sanctions. 
Earlier Tuesday, British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw toured a sprawling desert camp housing 40,000 displaced people and urged the Sudanese govern­ment to do more to make it safe for the frightened refugees to return home. 
CUBA 

Tribunals begin in Guantanamo 
Bin Laden's chauffeur is the first to be charged in military trials 
Associated Press 

GUANTANAMO BAY 
NAVAL BASE -Osama bin 
Laden's chauffeur was for­
mally charged Tuesday at 
the first U.S. military tribu­
nal to convene since World 
War II, and the defendant's 
Iawyer quickly challenged 
the panel over its impartial­
ly and questioned the pro­
ceeding's fairness. 
Salim Ahmed Hamdan, a 34-year-old Yemeni, declined to enter a plea until motions filed by his military­appointed lawyer attacking the legality of the proceed­ing are decided, probably in November. 
Hamdan, who was not shackled and wore a flowing white robe, smiled occasion­ally as he listened to an Arabic interpreter through headphones, even after hearing charges that could bring life in prison: conspir­acy to commit war crimes, including attacking civilians, murder and terrorism. He isn't charged with any spe­cific violent act. 
His lawyer, Lt. Cmdr. Charlie Swift, filed chal­lenges against four of the five panel members, includ­ing the presiding officer, and an alternate, questioning their capacity to serve fairly. The appointing authority, John Altenburg Jr., a 
retired Army general, will 
decide whether any of the 
commission members 
should be removed, but was 
not clear how soon he might 
rule. 

"It is important that these proceedings not only be fair, but appear fair to the world," Swift said during the hearing, which lasted eight hours. 
He challenged the presid­ing officer, Army Col. Peter Brownback, a former mili­tary judge, on the grounds that he came out of retire­ment to serve on the panel and that he is not a standing member of a bar associa­tion. 
Swift raised questions on panel member Marine Col. Jack K. Sparks Jr., citing concerns over Sparks' feel­ings about a reservist under his command who died in the Sept. 11 terror attack on New York's World Trade Center while working as a firefighter. 
He also said he was con­cerned that commission member Marine Col. R. Thomas Bright had said he was in charge of the logis­tics of moving detainees to Guantanamo; that Air Force Lt. Col. Timothy Toomey was an intelligence officer in Afghanistan; and that an alternate, Army Lt. Col. Curt Cooper, expressed strong 
emotions about the 2001 
attacks and concern for the 
safety of himself and his 
family. 
"Clearly the impartiality of these panel members is a concern to us," said Anthony Romero, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union who was one of several rights activists observing the hear­ing. 
Hamdan has said he earned a pittance for his family as bin Laden's driver before the Sept. 11 attacks, but denies involvement in terrorism. U.S. officials allege he served as the al­Qaida leader's bodyguard and delivered weapons to his operatives. 
Brownback gave Swift until Oct. 1 to file other motions and said the pros­ectuion would have until Oct. 15 to respond. 
Tribunal members and prosecutors asked the media not to use the names of the panel members, fearing pos­sible retribution. But their names were previously made public and have been published. 
Brownback is the only member of commission to have formal legal training. Asked by Swift whether he thought the proceedings were legal, Brownback said he chose not to answer. 

milks hake /milkshak/ 11. 1. frothy drink of n1ilk and ice crean1 

page 13

Wednesday, August 25, 2004 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

&~00 ffi @1~ @1ir )]~ ~@ 
00.1 ~ ® W~tr !WJt/&9 
Sometim(!s yout mind an pby trtc:ks Otl yw. like when ,ou. iliink you~ sav~ t~ ordering yOMr ~tbbcb oril~. 8-ut add in th~ shipptng cha:r~s and aU the tin'l!fl )"0\l' spefld waitmg f« -ddM:!r-y. :a~ ~~ ""~•~"".to~d dts~ar qut<:kly. At ~ltett.<:¢m you taf1 ~r your ~t<Xby and pkk. them up at your t:ampm ~WN .~J1'0W. And p., 
nothing for sNpf:»og. Now that's ~  te'al de~  
r-­ ..  - -­ .......  
l  No shipping dNirJes  )  
.  i  - 51  -·  
HAMMES  

NOTRE DAME 
BOOKS:IORE 
IN THE ECK CENTER 
THE ()BSER\l£R 

IEWPOINT
page 14 Wednesday, August 25, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 

Outside Paradise 
P.O. Box Q, Notre bame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norte Dame, IN 46556 
EOllOR lN CH!Ef Matt Lazar 

MANAGING EOilOR  8UstNllSS M-\NAGllll  
Meghanne Downes  Loti Lewal~ki  
AssT. MANAGING EOilOil  
Joe Hertler  

N1::ws EDITORs Claire Heininger Vn.WI'OINT EDITORs S2rah Vabulas 
SPORTS EOITOII: Hearhet Van Hoegarden SUN£ EDITORs Maria Smith IN Focus EorroiU Meghan Marrin SAINT MARY'S EDnoR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EmmJU Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITORs Mike Harkim 
ADvERTISING MANAGERs Carrie Franklin 
AD DESIGN MA!IIAG£Rt Kdly Nel~on SVsTF.MS AOMINlSTilATORt Mary Allen 
BUSINESS MANAGER: Mike Flanag-dll CONTROIJ.ER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631·69Z7 ADVfRTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.c:du 
EDITOR IN CHIEF . {574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313
News DESK ... 
(574) 631-H23 obsnew"s.I@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpo!ilt.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 spons.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY's DESK (574) 631~4324 smc.l@nd.edu PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 .. 
on~iRVERONL/Nf
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independem, <laity n~paper publilhed in print lllld online by the stud~nts ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial coment, induding <idvertisements, i$ not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refus~ advertisements based on content. The n~s is reported as accurately and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, 
Assisrant Managing Editor and deparun<m editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presem the view5 of the authors and not necessarily th05e ofThe 
Observer. 
Vi~point space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerters is encouraged. Lcttm to the Editor must be sign~d and must include contaGt information. 
~stiom "garrling Obmvrrpolicies should bf dirrcted tQ Ediwr in ChiifM4tt Lomr. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Tho> oh_,,.,. (Ull~ )'l'll·40DOI io puhlbh«< Mon<by th"'"P Pt><by d«pr dwtlnJ e~Jtatn oNtd ~ru::atloo pectods. Anal...slpfiort m Th" Ohu:rirorl• $-10& ror{U)Itaadmtb. )'NI'; US for on"~­
1'1w: Obtl;'fVff ~ • rmmhR' ~;~f the-Nwci<~ll"d !'reM .All "Prodl,l(citm right• uc 
_.,.~, 
The: OhUOMT it p._bliJ~ ac~ ~.a..Q Ol4 S.•m Oillin1 H.U Ol4 Soo<l> t>"""g H•R rJo.,.O..,t,IN~~~J Nom U...:, IN 46~ll\.07?'! Pet~ P<»f.a&(! rMd u NoucJu.ne .a~~d ..:tditktn.! M&iBna dlfta~~. 
$Mid ,_4q~ <!Ot~<iutu: ~~ 
lhr: oo........ 'the OhM:rw::~··· 'l'JcmbN.>F me~~ rm... ..w ~t·Q~ ritA~~
_,.<'!. .. 
When describing our Notre Dame student body, often the words "disen­gaged" and "apathetic" find their way in the conversation. The attendance of social justice activities and participa­tion in campus demonstrations Kamaria Porter certainly support these descrip­tors, yet I feel 
Breaking the 
this generaliza­
Habit
tion may be too 
hasty. As people 
of consciousness 
and compassion, we all have some­
thing we care passionately about. The 
gamut of concern ranges from our 
own lives to the broader human com­
munity of this planet. While some 
show their passions more overtly, oth­
ers hold back. 
Yet, we are surely a community of overachievers. To be here at this pres­tigious university, ingenuity and dili­gence had to be a part of our charac­ters. So, with such an able student body and injustice all around us to inspire oodles of moral outrage, why do Notre Dame students still get donned as uncaring automatons? 
The more cynical view would suggest the achievements and eminent suc­cesses of many students have hard­ened their hearts to the worries of the outside world. Yet, this damning view only alienates the active crowds from everyone else. Perhaps a closer reflec­tion may offer a better answer. 
We all, as human beings, have some­thing about which we are concerned. Whether it is family, friends, our future, or our descendants, we all have a reason to care for something beyond ourselves and beyond the pres­ent. The gap between caring and action that so many are weary of crossing then points to a sadder truth. Most people do not recognize their own power to change circumstances and are overwhelmed by the wrong they see in the world. This is under­standable in such an individualistic 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

and money-driven culture. As the rob­ber barons and ruling classes of the present make decisions that dictate our freedoms and fortunes, it is hard to see how a group of compassionate people can influence the course of things. 
Yet, all change and reform through­out history has been the result of countering power with power. Not the destructive power of violent force, for it only tears human bonds down and destroys lives. The appropriate description of power identifies two kinds in our culture -organized money and organized people. The lat­ter-as seen in the legacies of the Civil Bights Movement, Women's Suffrage Movement and countless oth­ers -is the catalyst for real change of which we all can be a part. 
It is important to recognize the power in a group of people organizing to change circumstances. More imper­ative, we must consider the inf1uence inaction has on the course of things. Refusing to aid others in their struggle for justice does more to retard the process than the actions of their oppo­sition. 
Howard Zinn, activist, writer and historian, captures the context in which we should view our power and action in his autobiography, "You Can't Be Neutral on a Moving Train." The title comes from a phrase Zinn used often in his classes. For him, history is being made everyday. The course of things resembles a moving train, surg­ing toward a foreseeable and some­times negative end. The hope for pre· venting tragedy is inside us -also on the train. We all have the power to act, one way or another, to shift the course of history. Our success compounds when we form coalitions and organiza­tions of concerned people to counter the powers of cynicism and self-inter­est with hope. 
These are times that require us to act. Poverty, hunger and unemploy­ment touch the lives of over 35 million Americans. Job growth is dangerously low, especially in this declared eco­nomic recovery. As high-paying manu­facturing and technical jobs disappear from the American industrial land­scape, people are faced with low pay­ing, labor-intensive service-sector jobs. Many work full-time, yet still qualify for financial government assis· tance. State government budgets have cut funding to valuable social pro· grams -especially education -to make up for ill-structured federal income and corporate tax cuts. 
If you care about the well being of your peers and fellow citizens, you must be a part of a movement to change the course of our moving train. Without action, our collective fortunes will feature more people living without hope and the necessities for survival. We will never be the greatest society if the majority of our citizens struggle to gain the basic needs for life. We will never live up to our charter of freedom if we continue to stifle the voices of our citizens and declare their mes­sages of hope to be unpatriotic. We will never be free from fear if we con­tinue to be a dominating and unwel­come force throughout the world. We cannot secure the future for our descendants if we continue to exploit and pollute this planet. 
From now to November, and for the rest of our lives, we must be on the side of active pursuit of justice. The activist in you exists where the con­cerns of your heart meet the injustice of the world. Do something. 
Kamaria Porter is a junior history major. She spent the summer register· ing voters and would like to encourage everyone to register and vote this fall. Big cheers to NICWJ interns Mike, Brian, Leslie and Emily for their work this summer. She can be contacted at kporter@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces· sarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF News Sports OBSERVER POLL Oaire Heininger Matt Mooney Megan O'Neil Matt Puglisi Jeannine Pribate Heather Van Viewpoint Hoegarden What are you doing this Friday night? Sarah Vabulas Scene Eileen Duffy Maria Smith 
Graphics Illustrator Vote by 5 p.m. Thursday at Mike Harkins Katie Knorr www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"What we become depends on what we read after all ofthe professors have finished with us. The greatest university ofall is a collection ofbooks. " 
Thomas Carlyle British historian 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, August 25, 2004 page 15 
U-WIRE 
Politics more than petitions 
1 know what you're thinking. "It's the second day of the fall semester, and the last thing I want to do is read a column about politics." 
We've been on campus for a little over a day now, and who knows how Nathan Cobb many times you've been asked to sign a petition for candidate New Mexico so-and-so or sign up Daily Lobo for political group X. 
Couple those inquiries with a sum­mer that boasted an unprecedented volume of political ads, and just about all of us are on political overload. 
But that's the joy of being a college student, right? 
We are the purportedly apathetic section of voters coveted by every political body imaginable. 
Walking around campus like a politi­cal buffet, there's always someone with a clipboard waiting to give you an earful. 
Yes, indeed, we are truly the chosen people of the political recruiting process. The frenzy is only amplified in an election year when so many states will be decided by a couple hun­dred votes. 
We all have our strategies for avoid­ing the petition-wielding army: Wearing headphones even if they don't happen to be playing any music, pre­tending to be in a big hurry and the ever-popular strategy of not making eye contact at any cost. The phone 
, <;~~~s are eyen easier to avoid. Just hang up. After perfecting one of these meth­ods. it gets pretty easy to start dis­missing these political activists. The trouble is, all too often the entire political process gets lumped in with 
them. 
It gets pretty easy to start filling the role of "apathetic young voter." We shut out the clipboarders, we change the channel and we assume issues don't apply to us yet because we're still in school. 
Tax cuts don't mean too much when you're living on Ramen noo­dles and Social Security is a million years away. The direction of U.S. foreign policy can inspire a few heat­ed class­room or coffee­house dis­cussions, but how much do we really care about these issues? All too often, the answer turns out to be: Not enough to vote. 
In the last presiden­tial election, only about one-third of college-age vot­ers got to the polls. Translate that to UNM's student population, and you have roughly 20,000 students not 


LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
ND election parallels presidential race 

After a summer spent exploring the called to serve (indulge me here); while political gamut-from Michael Moore's the opposition boasts a tepid environ­controversial "Fahrenheit 9/11 ," to the mental record (read: Hummer) and Democratic National Convention, to whose father got him into the coast NBC's Olympic coverage featuring guard. inspirational Iraq -I feel confident in So was it Istvan's platform that sunk offering some early election advice to Ebersol? Notre Dame students as November I think you will see my point. approaches. But really folks, the issues are for 
When people like Bill O'Reilly get in weenies -see Bill O'Reilly. your face with their "issues" and start My America features me waking up in yelling about this "the most important the morning knowing full well that the election of our time," don't fret, balk or U.S. dollar has little tangible backing even gambol-you will find that we've though it continually loses ground to already been through this election, if on foreign currency and the national debt a lesser scale. swells, but then recall that my 
George W. Bush, who, with his father President is a pretty swanky guy and so and Lyndon B. Johnson, has proven not care. again that the only things to come out Yes, I want a President who can sell of Texas are steers and weak presiden­me a killer pair of Nikes while convinc­cies, is up for a long campaign haul ing me that outsourcing shows unlimit­against Senator John Kerry. ed benefits to the American consumer. 
But is it Kerry's appealing platform Because this is, and always will be, that will galvanize this likely photo-fin­the reality of elections -personal taste ish? Nope. It's because no one likes comes before political agenda. George W. Bush. For we Darners, that's a familiar con­
Now think back six long months to clusion. And no, Republicans, the Bush the all-important student body elections twins will not sway my opinion. That where Adam Istvan defeated Charlie was so four years ago. Ebersol. 
You'll notice some shocking parallels: Daniel Bulger on one side we have the gangly orator junior with a foxy running mate (yeah Karla Alumni Hall Bell) who "reported for duty" when Aug. 24 
voting-20,000 votes just from UNM students. The turnout for all voters across the board is even lower in non-presi­dential elections. What kinds of issues are decided by elec­tions college students are notoriously 
absent from? The Republican-con­trolled 108th 
Congress has had quite an impact on 
our lives even though we are just 
college stu­dents. 
Congress failed to enact leg­islation that would have increased 
Pell Grant funding allowing 

those recipi­ents to receive almost $5,000 a year in addi­tional funds. Congress failed to amend the No Child Left Behind Act to include a measure to increase funding to pro­grams for Hispanic students, including English as a second lan­
guage programs, migrant education 
and funding for Hispanic-serving Institutions. 
Also, even though young people often choose to ignore issues such as rising federal deficits and the demise of Social Security, those are the types of issues that will plague our genera­tion and our children's generation unless they are kept in check. 
Although we may not always have the time or the desire to talk to every person who approaches us with the familiar, "Hi my name is ... Would you like to take a minute to ...,"that does not mean we can safely dismiss the political process as a whole. 
The people we vote for and the peo­ple who get elected when we fail to vote change our lives in numerous ways. 
From a Republican Congress failing to allocate proper funding to our schools, to Heather Wilson's crusade to strengthen the censorship powers of the FCC, we are greatly affected by the political process. 
There is meaningful political pres­ence on campus. Candidates will be visiting the University throughout the election season, and it is important to note candidates who make a point to prioritize student issues. 
College students have allowed them­selves to be ignored by the White House and the Republican-controlled Congress. The only way to change that is to make our voices heard on Election Day. 
This article originally appeared on Aug. 24, 2004 in the Daily Lobo, the daily publication at the University of New Mexico. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


U-WIRE 
Kerry at fault for Vietnalll debate 
In a time when the U.S. is faced with receive unregulated amounts of money terrorism, keeping the economy grow­for political activities. For the ing and problems in Iraq, it wouldn't be "Swifties," this has meant launching a surprising if some of these issues website and placing ads with testimony remained part of the dialogue until the from soldiers who served with Kerry. general election. The response of the Democrats is to What is shocking Aaron Okln allege that the Bush campaign some­is that the issue how has control over the ads. that has received Evidence has yet to surface that con­
Arizona Daily 

the most media clusively disproves what the veterans 
Wildcat·

coverage is not are saying, just as the people who listed above. appear in Kerry ads claiming his hero­
The issue at center stage is the mili­ism are the only evidence in Kerry's tary service of John Kerry in Vietnam. favor, minus awards and documents While Kerry would have Americans whose validity have been questioned. believe that President Bush is responsi­The Bush camp has answered calls to ble for this debate, it's not the case. denounce the Swifties' ads by remind­
The first thing to realize is that Kerry ing detractors that the president has himself has made it a point to inter­opposed the actions of 527s and that he twine his candidacy with his military has been the target of $63 million record. Anyone who has had exposure worth of ads -25 times the amount of to his ads should have seen that one of 527 money directed at Kerry -and by Kerry's only consistent points is that he maintaining that Kerry's choice to go to is a war hero. Vietnam was "noble." 
On a more focused level, though, the This dispute is actually a benefit for Kerry campaign doesn't even possess Kerry -anything to take the focus off the war-hero status consistently. the issues and his pitiful political Kerry's self-promoted hero status is record. antithetical to the self-proclaimed war­criminal status he touted after Vietnam. This article appeared on Aug. 24, 
There is a group of people linked to 2004 in the Arizona Daily Wildcat, the Kerry's work in Vietnam who are both­publication at the University of ered. These people formed the organi­Arizona. zation Swift Boat Veterans for Truth. The views expressed in this column 
This organization falls under a classi­are those ofthe author and not neces­fication known as 527 groups and can sarily those ofThe Observer. 


CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, August 25, 2004 


.
d 




W 
hat's more American than beer, hot dogs and baseball? How about drinking beer, eating hot dogs and listening to Willie Nelson and Bob Dylo It is rare for any ballpark like Coveleski Stadium to see an artist as big as Willie Nelst with ease. But at Sunday night's concert, it was obvious that the home of South Bend newer groups, and Dylan may have lost some of the fire of his early performances, bu today. Where many artists attract a limited, albeit loyal crowd, Coveleski stadium was filled with fa Nelson license plates past children in Bob Dylan shirts, South Bend natives approaching their 70s an the people who turned out for the concert, but just like baseball, Nelson and Dylan bring Americans 
The choice to have the two singer/songwriters tour together was as innovative as the idea Rochester, Minn. Like performances by Billy Joel and Elton John, who have performed together m; would be loathe to miss. 
Sunday night's performance opened with a group that, in sharp contrast to the headlining act: Cowtown, a group from Austin, Texas, has toured across the U.S. and internationally, and was asl formances in Europe. Opening for either artist would have been a dream for the group, and the ch to a wider fan base. they wrote as for their performanc­energy has diminisl 
Hot Club's Western swing sound, es. As their fame has increased, on famous hits like not to be confused with bluegrass, their songs have become known for Watchtower" have b set the mood for Nelson and Dylan the countless covers of their work less recognizable. very well. Although violinist Elana and for their own performances of Sunday night was Fremerman, guitarist Whit Smith it. To some extent nostalgia is the Dylan's performance and bassist Jake Erwin do not have reason why both artists still attract did not garner th€ 
Photo courtesy of www.usefulworl<.com 

Bob Dylan, once one of the most Important voices of a musical genera­tion, now keeps a lower profile and did not allow photographs Sunday. 
the same talent for poignant lyrics the following as the senior musicians on the tour, they do. Time the group was instrumentally has taken its excellent. toll on both per-
Willie Nelson and the Family formers, and Band took the stage with the ener­Nelson is no gy and informality Nelson is known longer known for. Nelson sang strong vocals on for his work on hits like "On the Road Again" and guitar as much "Beer for my Horses." The whole as his voice and group slowed down beautifully for his rapport. "Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain" and Dylan's per­"Georgia on my Mind." formances have 
In their heyday Nelson and Dylan suffered more, were known as much for the songs as the singer's 
Bob Dylan! 
Coveleskl S Aug. 22, ~ 
Rainy Day Women #12 & 35 
God Knows 

Seeing The Real You At Last I Shall Be Released (with Willie Nelson 
Tweedle Dee & Tweedle Dum Lay, lady, lay 
High Water (For Charley Patton) 


CENE
Wednesday, August 25, 2004 
page 17 


R I A SMITH 
in a baseball park? 
or Bob Dylan play a show, Either artist could play a larger venue in Chicago or New York Silverhawks was an inspired venue for this show. Nelson and Dylan do not have the edge of the crowd reaction was a tribute to how much their work has affected the new performers of s of every age and and every walk of life. Middle-aged Texas natives carried novelty Willie students in Notre Dame T-shirts. Outside the ballpark there may be little in common between 
together in a way few things can. 
of taking the tour to minor league baseball parks in cities like South Bend, Peoria, Ill. and y times in the last decade, Nelson and Dylan together is something which any fan of either 
. is still working to expand their musical reputation and develop their talent. Hot Club of ed to open the shows after Dylan saw the performers on television during one of their per­to play with two famous artists is an exciting chance for Hot Club to get some exposure 
reaction as Nelson and the Family  Sunday's performance  was.  in  
Band. Dylan's work on the keyboard  addition to anything else, a chance  
was difficult to hear, and while the  to see how time has changed both  
musicians  on stage played well.  artists. Nelson has gained a reputa­ 
no  exception.  Dylan's slurring through his vocals  tion as  an American institution in  
was go od, but  took away from the impact of even  areas beyond his music. Besides  
same  crowd  his most recognizable numbers.  owning a brand of whiskey, Nelson,  


Highway 61 Revisited Tryin' To Get To Heaven Honest With Me Sugar Baby Summer Days Like A Rolling Stone All Along The Watchtower 
Hits like along with John Mellancamp and "Rainy Day Neil Young, is one of the founding Women #12 & board members of Farm Aid, and T­35" and "Like a shirts for both could be seen Rolling Stone" throughout the stadium. Dylan has were still popu­preferred to stick closer to what lar with listen­made him famous. But no matter ers throughout what has happened or will happen the stadium, to Willie Nelson and Bob Dylan and the per­since their early fame, the crowd at formance, as Coveleski showed how much the always, was two will remain American legends. enjoyable for any devoted Contact Maria Smith at Dylan fan. msmith4@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wodno•day, Augrnr 25, 200~ NCAA FOOTBALL 
Offensive linemen key to Oklahoma's success 
Associated Press 
NORMAN -Oklahoma's greatest asset and the second-ranked Sooners have many might be the players who get the least attention. 
The offensive line that helped clear a path to the Heisman 'Ti"ophy for quarterback Jason White returns intact for Oklahoma. The five starters three seniors and two juniors enter the 2004 season with 133 combined starts. 
"A couple of years ago we were all thrown out there," All-American right tackle Jammal Brown said. "Now we have gelled and we've all been together and know each other. Now we just go out there and do our jobs." 
Brown and center Vmce Carter are the stars of a front wall that averages 6-foot-5 and 308 pounds. Each allowed only one sack last sea.<>on while registering more than 110 knockdown blocks. Around them will be left guard Kelvin Chaisson, right guard Davin Joseph and left tackle Wes Sims. 
Carter is the runt of the group at 6-3, 289 pounds. The others are each over 300 pounds and at least 6-4. 
The line was stellar through most of last season, especially protecting White. The Sooners averaged 42.9 points per game, led by White's 40 touchdown passes and 3,846 yards. 
But in the Sooners' final two games both losses the line got licked by blitzing defenses from Kansas State and lSU. 
Offensive line coach and co­offensive coordinator Kevin Wilson said the improvements his pupils need to make are more mental than physical. 
"It's getting an attitude and an edge and mind-set of how we're going to play up front," Wilson said. "We've got some great skill players to make them look good but we really need to compete." 
The line's job will be to give White enough time to throw down­field to his star wide receiver, Mark Oayton, and give Oklahoma's run­ning backs, prized freshman Adrian Peterson and veteran Kejuan Jones, space to maneuver. 

"With the kind of talent we have in our backfield, if we give those guys a little crease or a little seam, they are going to take it to the house," Carter said. "They all have great speed and are great athletes so it makes us real confident going into the season." 
Oklahoma coaches insist that Peterson, the top-rated high school recruit, must learn the complete offense to supplant Jones as the starter that includes blocking. 
"You don't want a guy who gives it all on a rushing play and then takes off on a passing play," said Chuck Long, Oklahoma's co-offen­sive coordinator. "He's going to be awarded the chance to play. 
"We're not opposed to be playing incoming freshman, but he has to prove himself." 



Recruiting aide indicted by grand jury in football scandal 
Attorney General Ken Salazar Michele Ames declined to com­Associated Press 
said in a statement that other ment on the indictment but matters relating to the investi­said the university will monitor DENVER -A grand jury gation were still pending, but recruiting under stringent new 
investigation into whether he did not elaborate. policies. booze and sex were used to Maxcey, 28, did not immedi­"We will continue to be vigi­entice Colorado football ately return a call. and a lant in ensuring that the recruits ended with an indict­woman who answered the reforms we've implemented ment against just one person a phone at the Texas home of his take root." she said. L former low-level school parents said the family would The embezzlement and then employee accused Tuesday of not comment. charges accuse Maxcey of soliciting a prostitute for him­Maxcey is charged with mis­accumulating $1,043 in 
self. demeanor solicitation for pros­charges on his universit9­
The grand jury accused only titution and two felonies: issued cell phone in 90 calls to Nathan Maxcey in its indict­embezzlement of public prop­a dating chat line. The calls ment, making no mention of erty and theft. both related to totaled nearly 100 hours, the university officials, students or allegations he used a school indictment said. recruits. It decided against an cell phone to call a dating chat About half the calls were indictment on a charge of line. made after Maxcey was told by "pimping," which accused the The charges are the first the university that the practice 
recruiting aide of setting up stemming from a scandal that was unacceptable and that he prostitutes for others at a dorm erupted early this year after would have to repay the school. room and hotels used by the three women filed lawsuits the indictment said. 
Colorado football program. alleging they were raped by The solicitation charge accus­
"This appears to be good football recruits or players who es Maxcey of paying Pasha news for the University of attended an off-campus party Cowan $250 for sex. Colorado athletic department," in December 2001. Cowan, who ran an escort said attorney Craig Silverman, Since 1997. nine women have service, has alleged that who has followed the investiga­made similar allegations. Maxcey paid her $2,500 for 
tion. "It appears that this inves­Prosecutors have not filed any three call girls to visit "very tigation has fizzled out." sexual assault charges, citing young, very athletic men" at 
The indictments were handed concerns about the evidence Boulder-area hotels. Maxcey up last week after three and the reluctance of the has denied the allegations. say­months of testimony. but were women to pursue the cases. ing the calls were only to not made public until Tuesday. University spokeswoman arrange liaisons for himself. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Got Highspeed? Want WIRELESS? Networks installed & secured. Dan 243·1515 NDDan03@yahoo.com 
WANTED 
SOCCER REFEREES • needed for south side elementary school locat­ed near Erskine Golf Course on Miami Street. $30 per soccer game. Call 574·291· 4200. 
FoR SALE 
7 fl. blue couch $150 & 4 x 4 enter­tainment center $75. Excellent con­dition. 257-0781 
RELIABLE RIDE 96 Honda Accord EX sedan, NC, moonroof, airbags, cruise, 85,000 miles. Power win­dows and locks. Very good condi· lion. $6,250 OBO. 277·6910. 
1988 Eagle Premier. $500. 232· 1985. 
FoR RENT 
APARTMENT FOR RENT IN MISHAWAKA Furnish and all utili· ties included. No smoking, No pets. Call 255·1738 for information. Single person, no children. $400 mo. 
1 bedroom Topsfield Condo for rent, 1 0 minutes from Campus, $550/mo 
+ utilities, modern, hardwood floors, washer & dryer and community pool. Available immediately. Will consider lease/purchase option. Call 255-5365. 

2 NICE HOMES JUST NORTH OF NO.CLOSE. IDEAL FOR 2·4 PEO­PLE.VERY REASONABLE RENT. 277-3097. 
4 bed 2 bath 925 No. Lawrence 876·7339 or 288-3613 
3 bedroom house for rent. 1203 E. LaSalle. $600/mo + deposit. Appliances incl. Call 243-5870. 
3 unit house.$550 per uniVmo. lncl water & elec. Each unit has full kitchen, bath & 2 bdrms. Off street parking. Can walk to campus. Property Management Services, 233-4590 
2-bdrm house wlliving room, dining room, full bath. $575/mo+utilities. Cute country house. Lincolnway (Osceola). Property Management Services 233-4590. 
TICKETS 

A businessman needs season tick­ets for clients. 277 ·1659 
BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX. PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES. 273· 3911 
For Sale: NO football tix. Good prices. 232·0964. 
For Sale: NO football tix. Good prices. 232·0964. 
Wanted: NO football tix. Top $$$ 251·1570. 

NO flball tix bought & sold a.m. 232· 2378 p.m. 288-2726 
Wanted: Football season tix or Michigan tix. 233·3618 
PERSONAL 

Chris, enjoy your junior year. We are very proud of you. Love. Mom & Dad 
YoungNDalumsneedTURTLECREE KAPTforMICHIGANwknd.Willpaytop $$$and finance party for you and­friends .Will accept best proposal. Contact CPOEMD@AOL.COM 
Wednesday, August 25, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
OLYMPICS 

··1· 1· ·'I
••· ,.. <-''• r··l····t··.·. ~:c"'··:"·~·-:c,:,:~ .....1 .,.'\·r· ,.., .. '"f·.'},l'
;;·}. . . t•·" 'i., ~···•· I ..... 1· \. t ..... 
·.· ·.. t .'\....: .. : .. ·. . ""'-,. ~ '"-··; .1 .. ;. . . .' ~....¥ .•... ; ,. ... 
"'' 
Free Student Checking 
" No rnh·Mmlm b~:lr.mce 
• Unlimited ttillh~r:.tions 
• No Ched:,Catd tr<Jnsad}m1 ff.~ 
• Oxwe-tlieilt ,"JCJ::Jf-5~. to r'i.'2ti>~t¥.il City ATf'.>1s ahd hranth£1 wht?thet :,«xi'te at horn€·, >U:h«:tt or on the rcv.K.l 
• Fn::!e On1in*· B<:!nkH·r9 ·-· the-tk b<llancf~"£ d<1dy, ltan~fer !'um:h b!!<h'ieet1 i:l-tcounh< (j£1d \ile"''t ordhm~ s.t:i16:~mtnh i1tnf thec:k itr\a:Ql::!S 
• Free Ordin*· Bill Payrrui•ht 

Open any Free Student Checking acccn.mt and get a free bcu:kpadk 

$(JUTH t>f.M) ( H~TRAl (tAY i.H..Jfi!FR.$!f"{ f!AitPENS 
lo 1 0 N>Jff.h l->~•s<T~<;:;tl~ ~ >'~t'J"i !)$~>hmd R;:-,~d G.'J>W ·,~~w~h t~i .1ird~~*-t 
l>74})7.47.H \i.74))74!).~~; $'l4-··B1·47~u 

plulrtct:iu/UJ ""'"''"'""~ td "'fft-.~.t:(l:itmts it~ld,\'<3! b->:<.~ ~SIJ&a~~ ~OO~"tfft m~Jat OmJlr~~ •&lit iipj:ihdtk< f~$.!il:..%U~:t (1111inr. IMillittj; Gifl c4'lflr ·~t[>,!; •WJ~ to .oow fr,w !;taioot Clm:ti19 ,y,....;.J.tnu ~too wJftt ~,fd ·oo. ·~t at ~~~u}~ vAU~ i.!W~51J~t '~l'lMI (ltf ilt'Af'A..,; il~ iighl iu 111b~liili11); <til i~tl <if tJitiih'l!' ~-.6-K' 


Walsh, May win volleyball gold 
Associated Press 
ATHENS, Greece -They raced to the stands and grabbed American flags as "Born in the USA" blared over the speakers at the Olympics' rowdiest venue. 
Kerri Walsh and Misty May ended a splendid night on the beach with a gold medal, a fit­ting finale for the most dominant run in the history of beach vol­leyball. 
The top-ranked U.S. beach volleyball duo beat second-seed­ed Brazilians Shelda Bede and Adriana Behar 21-17, 21-11 on Tuesday night, and did it with­out ever dropping a set in seven matches. 
"It kind of hit me when I went and saw my family and they had tears in their eyes," Walsh said. "They flew a million miles to see it and they hate flying. It's really special." 
With the 6-foot-3 Walsh domi­nating at the net and the quick May scrambling and diving for every dig, they were favorites since last year, when they began an unprecedented 90-match, IS­tournament winning streak. 
"We have so much confidence in each other, we never doubted ourselves," May said. 
"We deserve it," Walsh added. 
Earlier, Americans Holly McPeak and Elaine Youngs won the bronze medal, beating Australia's Natalie Cook and Nicole Sanderson 21-18, 15-21, 15-9. 
The Americans and Brazilians exchanged hugs on the medal stand before the national anthem played. Adriana and Shelda. the all-time winningest pair on the international FIVB tour, won their second straight silver medal. 
On match point in a surpris­ingly lopsided final, Walsh ham­mered a spike just inside the line. Walsh fell to her knees as May ran to embrace her and both fell backward in the sand. 
"I just tackled her," May said. 
"I didn't care if I broke her knees because she has a lot of time to rest." 
Questions about the pair's Olympic chances arose in June, shortly after May pulled an abdominal muscle. She spent most of the summer rehabbing while Walsh kept homing her game with other partners. 
If they had weaknesses, they certainly weren't apparent in Athens where they were untouchable. improving to 108-8 over two years. 
"A lot of people had doubts," May said. "I tried to tell people I never had doubts." 
But they never took the medal for granted. 
"People said, 'You've got the gold medal in the bag,"' Walsh said. "However flattering that is, we know that's not true." 
Now it's time to party. 

May and Walsh are invited to a post-Olympics party at McPeak's home in California, where 10 bottles of Dom Perignon await. 
The toasts will taste especially sweet to McPeak, who finished fifth at the Olympics in 1996 and 2000, both times because her partner was injured. Two weeks before Atlanta. Nancy Reno tore a rotator cuff and couldn't do much more than set in the tour­nament. Five weeks before Sydney, May then her teammate tore an abdominal muscle. She and McPeak hardly practiced together before the games began. 
Youngs played on the U.S. indoor team that finished a dis­appointing seventh in Atlanta. She hit the beach the following year and paired with McPeak in 2002 with Athens on her mind. 
The Americans' bronze victory kept Cook off the medal stand for the frrst time since beach vol­leyball became an Olympic sport in 1996. Cook won the bronze in Atlanta and the gold in Sydney, both times with Kerri Pottharst. She teamed with Sanderson last year after Pottharst retired. 
BEHIND THE DOORS OF ALUMNI BOARDS ... 
Become one ofthree (non-voting) volunteer Student Representatives to the alumni board ofthe Notre Dame Club ofSaint Joseph Valley. Attend monthly board meetings (when on campus) and special alumni events. Learn the process! Take the experience to your own home club ...or one ofthe 200 ND Alumni Clubs around the world! 
An equal opportunity open to all ND undergraduates. For details and application process, please visit 
http://www.ndsjv.org 
Click on "Club News", then "Student Representative" at the top of the page. 
page 20 Wednesday, August 25, 2004
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Saving Is Smart. 

Wt AltE IN &JHN£5~ Fll!l ~MAtt ltWH'N[H

Shop For Your Organization At SAM'S CLUB: 
Colleges•lJnivers.ities• Greek Organizations• Student Union$• Acade1nic Clubs• Residem::e Halls• Students 
SA1\A'S ClUB~ offers a large seledion of top name brands .at Every Day Low Cost So finding exactly what you need for your organization is easy and affordable. Students can alsn take advantage of th(~ same heru:dits V."e offer our Business i\-1embers. Frorn special occasions to the dally basics, we~ve got you covered. Compare our prices \Vith others and see the savings. Shopping at SA~M'S ClUB is smart. 

E~ry Day U:Mt Cost 
~'¥:!don't tun off·ptk~ ~f!s,. offer t:J>Up(H1s. reb-ale~. "P"~p·mt~"' "'Wallets uf Sa\'ingli,,.. ot t)~het' gwnm•,:tJo sn w~ cat'! provide YOU k)'w p:ricru;; £!\t-ery day; 

ONE-DA\1 GUEST PASS" 

~HJ;·-~ S~t'~<·i:e~ F~W -"1lPti~$i.) 
,, Become· a M.embN today and avoid the 1fr}·~ Sen'ice Fee
' 

I that applies to all nonmember purdtases. : *Til!<..~ Sl•.M:'S ('tLtl~ Cl•'w.·tk:'f Ou~ Pa~~ ~$ g;<~~lf•">~; ·;~!.! &y qmr {..~ft' •;!T-~W:!1ilol t;:!'!t!~~.1ll);:!!<
•• \'till b¢ ;¥-v:·~~j:.'it...U .1\ lW~. ~r><k~ hm <f'f.'ti~o> t1~ ill! n•·m~rr.fwr fli#.Yh>l~>~ >;<,lw.'>l'l $l'lo;:tppil'lg \'Oith I if1<~ (M!r.4:).¥~· (:~1 P~~~ !l'):(lt ;:iJlpltt:<IU~ tn C>\.. st:; .:~r Hm~i<>:rd, NY!. Y•:>~.t llilU~1 f><tf ~t· j/i':Hif I putdt~e~. w1!h ro<m<h, rkt•il t.'Md <:~eo<:.< C!\~h !>;•t ~l~:t!i('ftO~ neoh,wrl.;K<•. 1N<JI·M<~rl ()n'(~ (W.tl·M<~rl J Ma~t•'<'(:<im Nl't a•Tl.'f'li~1.ott all u~.~~tlwm~l, ~~·l)i!>r.:<:>~<~t' r.nl1 mil~ lr..<l r.tmd:~1·. 
•.• (i!m:...~ r~~ !!!~>raft~·~~~~ ~f!tlM:""r -.~~~~ ~~'apply~~ ~·h~tn:b\>itmp., '$Ubp!:-~ '...·.. .·· I 
I M !J<la%t.ll.~h.:l$1J;i.. ~M· V<~flil"l\1; il~Jq· .'\M~':S {.U.m _,f.:!~~>" .l$1 'loafln~c1;;,b.~~rtl-: , . .. . I 
Il · ··,..~·.· ~· .... ~ · I
··•:

.I ~~'<>:.<-t ·~·••.•>4< ~~•:.!<·~.:·•· .>.:\. ~¥ft · . ,.. · . I 
: 1mmriBttt!liiiiUI!IRR~ll!lliii!ID 11111:1 !llrn!.llllli ~l-~ ~ lh'<l"f.~ I 
t " t o i , a 1 o a 1 ·;. 2 5 9 2 9 3 s "' f'"" ~~-~~ b~~•~?<-s: : 
·-----------------------------------------~ 

Wednesday, August 25, 2004 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

B·etter lngrt~dietus;.
Be*t "•· £).~ .... 

. . l er riZl3... Welco,me New and Returning Notre Dame -St.. Mary's Students*'Fac,ulty*Staff 
Notre Dame Papa john1s  St Mary's Papa John~s  
1823 South Bend Avenue  North Village Mall  
271~ 1177  271"7212  

11-D LIII:K CIIAI:II TY Wllli.IIHAM AIID 
THE ElNORE liD I:IJAC·-STAff and PlAYERS!! 118 IB:ISH!! 
Papa lohnts Pizza is proud to be a Promotional Partner of Notre Dame Athletics and the Official DeUvery Pizza of NCAA Athletic~. 

-----~~~~--~~-~~l~.~--·1 
De Wf1111s P~pp~runl, Ham, Onk•m. ltilllian Sausa~t!< ff!!!Sh Mu:shruoms,. f.'r~5oh Gr-1!-i!n P!i.>p;pt~n & i!!.l~.d~~ 0H¥·fts: 
Small large Xlillrg.;e I llettet hlgt'edi:er:lt~.
10.99 14.99 11.99 
t'k;tte.r f~·zza~ 

lUI tile Mnts P~pptH'f)ftl, Hi!ltn, 8.u.on & S:au~a~ 
BUilD YOUR DWR 

.........................·.·:·:··.·..·.···.·.·.···• .·.·: .··.··.·.·.•:·.·.··:+•.··.-~.--····.··.·.·.·.•.•.•:•:-:-:-:·.·.·.·;o;-;o;-. 
Small l..ar:ge XLarg:e 10.49 11.99 16.99 

...... brp ...... UBDIBPIZIA J~• n.u 1111a 
1.1111 ~BD L1!1 
..I

Glrile.d c••• Altredo 
Mad>e tfOln grlil<ed t~nd~er slk>t!d aell-wh~t.<i! 'bki:>t!n 
TDPPIW&S


br-east, and (."f<eilltny y.•hR~ Atfr~d-o sa.u«! 
-----·----· www.papaj:•as.zam
Ham na.nan Soo.~i~Bge Bladt 0Uve:5 10.49 B,99 16.99 
Sm>~~iJ large Xlarge 
An\:h!Yi'toes Musfm)Qms fr~e~h Slk~d 
Custumar PIP all apJlicabfa afu tu:. 
jahtpet'l.v Pin~applii! fum<Jrto~s P~pt:*H S-a.U9l'i:J!i.' lb<:un
s,i!GII:bMr­
P~ppt!<run~ onro.w~ ·CiH!Ii!n Pepvreer:S
5plnach with a CrO!!·.amy Garik Cheese :S~tKfe 
£xtra.C~:5e GtUled

Sma.U Large XLuge 
;fSifln.uE~a Chkk41n

8.49 11.99 14.99 
f'~pp~n Ground B~>tf 

SIDES
BartliiiR fresla 
••••,.,.,.,.,.,._.;.,.,•,•u,"N..·,•.-.v.-.•.•,•,•,•,•,•:•,•o',•,.,.....,.,.....;,.,•,•,•,•,v,.,,,.,•.,,y,.,.,.,.,.u,•,v.vo'.-.l'>h.,.,.,.,••••·.··-.······-.···.-,-.·,·,·,·,·.-,·.-.....-.v.·.·.-.•,•,•,•,•.-,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,·,-:•,•,-.•,•,·,-.·,-.·,•.-,•,•.v,·;·;•;..v.-.·,·.v,·.-.·.·····.-.-.......·,-,.,.,.,•••,•,•,•,-.·,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,•,·.-.·,•.-.w,•,•,•,•.-_.,.,.,.,.......,••....,.,.h•,·.._.........,.,.,.,w.v.v...v.v.........:.-.-....:.........,._.,••••·;-.·,·.-,-.·,·No•,• 
fri!-:ih Mumrooms. Blacf( OIJ\11!.1, fre-.sh Green 
Papa~ C'**IIU'frilts---···-----·-..,JL88 Clllllap:la: ----..--...........__.........-~..-·...-~­
Pepp~rs. ft~s.h Of"Mul:l~ & freili Slkt!d ·t00lat\N!'5 
\!Vhlt~ nwad. br~ill:!it till\i!b,. wk~ t:rhp and gitilden 
bl:l':u ---·-·-----··---····--·-··"111"111···· ~•
Small large Xlarge 
brown.. P~rtvt<t for dipping ~n 6uffal'ti Hill sauc::1t, btfill Pll!pp~rundrtl:s, Spedill Galik Sauct!, th~es.e 
,._,._, t:z.99 u ..99 
Hooey Mu<st<tr.d ur taf.tgy B<~rL~qu~ 5«~m~ 5au'C~ ur f"lzu. Si#UCi!' 
llartJ.equa Cllltr:ua BUilD Pll:z:a 
CJitlesiiS'tlaU ~..,......~-··••»...._.............-~•: IJrhlts 
Grlll@d uti-whitt! t:hld:reen ln~<Mt,. ~dwry ~muk~ 
A gri!'at t<i~Ung hl1:1nd ot Papa john'!> fr~~h doogh. (:ot:a-·Cutii® danl(,. Sprite®, ar· d~d Cok~® 
bac::ol:l. fr€1h sll~d uni<On, ~nd <nJtbenth:: billtb!i.>que 
100% H!illf chees-e-Mtd ~ur lp<e'dal GON1k .Sa.tJ<e rwa: Ulllr..._...,___........~-·-····-·····-~~··...--.2,.:!11 
~u~e 
28 IJ.l.,.. bath ··--···-···--~·--t.33 
Small large Xlill'gil! 10.49 B.99 16.99 
llt!lklou~ uv~n~bak~d stkk!> with pl~n1;y vt Pi~pa John'!< Sp~!!c:.lail Giulk :S<~uc~ ar~d Pb.z.ill Sruu::~ 
.,...... ._ __ IIIII
·-----· 

~ WRit SPRiM ~
1 IRISH SPECIAl 1 

Ill Sma~~ l·t.(l>ppk~<J ~-2 ,;t>!}.$)l: Ill lillt{l~ 1-wpptng..
I 5rt?iid$th:.h ·fll C¢k~ ANt,J-go I 

I (Mk~~--···· I
I $14.8!1 I ~~.Jpiiin til 4.:00 p.m, 1 
I ~1:7~~1;::::.::::::~::"'~~-~ I I ~~t";;.:.x:::~;0';;;;,~;;z;~~ I 
I ~:.::.;;.:;:£:~?:Z:::~;;:;.f:;;:;1::;:i~ I a.;:··=<<·:;;~~-=~;;t.JY. ::;;. ~~-:::-~=··~;.. .1 ~e~:~~i:~~~~f.r~~~! 
111111111111118citnER!.... .. ,...... __ ..., ..
•=-'111111111111118'111111111111118·111111111111118'111111111111118'-l P'-111111111111118111111111111118llilliliiiill888a'*ll 

r *~ 
II PHD PAR Ill UIR llffl
I fAMILY SPECIAl I 

I ll~rgt> l·tuppln9, z I I L~.ttgfr Ch€ti!:~<li ,irnd J.4tHW I I SPICUil I 
.. l:w:r g~Z Wvt~$ .and .. 

iii_ tl<f~~d=litkk~, & 'Ctikit. 4 tM iii ... thul>t·~ ~·f lH!i.>~d~tklu til iii 1 b"tar-g~ l·topp~ng tof 1
I l Larg~ i:·t•:Jpp~ng I 

Ill Gu ~~ iJ~~I}' I 1 d~\i/'l'!S~ie<'lilh::kt> I .. th~· pdt#. O'f II li.Wgo:? only ..I $18..88 1 I $24...88 ... I I 112.118 .... I . ~)IS·... .
....... -·~. 
I ~~~~:::~::~,~~:~:~·.,!".:;::~~-~ I I ~~~~~~:~:.:~~!:~:~::~:;::~,;.~ I I ~~~~::~~::~~::=:::~:".::'!;;:~ I I =~:::t::t~!itt:~:~.:::;;;,,»,,•., ~.... I 
I 
~~x~o;:->·:.:~:c~·:G(!:b. ·M:~ l<-*::.i:(::K"'::,:·:oi -:-,;.~~*:t:~:..x~~~ 11 :~·:..~~::*· ..::!:~::*· :::::~· ·:~~~~~:~ ~:;;;::~~=~:;~~:· I I !;;::~:-:~t~~:;:!;~1z~~:~"!!~!~::E.;: I 
-.;=:~,~~=:::;~~~~::: ;<~;::~:::~::.:
~:.-.<<===~=;;::~~ :::~f=·S~:·~;;.: .I ~;~~~?~:~;~~~~:;~;E~ .I ~f~~~~:~~~a§rt~:~~ 
SCHOOL HOUlU SUMMEJt/HO:LIOAY HOURS Mondar -·rn¥Bulay llfundny -thllf'Sday
DVD · (ot:A·(~,._ 1fi,-to·G~

r-----------,r-----~-~--, 
11 :-GO a.m. tt~ 1~00 a.m. ll:oo a..m. to t:l:~oo a.m.
I ~hi}• ;(.t\:)1 tM=t,W ~~~ f~·L<wy."i! P'!l-l# M t~'1!~1f*r II"():.K.a·<$l<'li! 4·~x.•-G•J bi 4 .l(lHi•·Z b~Jtdo.e~l 
Fl'lddy-$~ Frlduy -$Qtul'thly
Im~m~ f#.dC~ <'$n4 g# H~i! :r~u;r dwh~ ·<3'*" :ai?i}' I lto'f th~ rwk~ i:l<f l k*dwJing 4 UtEt I 
n~-oo a.m. t>O 1:00 a.m. 11:00 a.m. to 1:00 m.m.
I {It (~~>' •* rtVth,. Tilt'"~~ ~:'hilt'!<,~'*'' w11~HY twr~ IJJ\:lth'k iS.iat~::h d;i.ii~•tid!i>'-~th · I 
ffNW.ths, "Hw.~,~lgh f).~;c~ml;~r .JbM. .. .. .... .. .. .. .. . . Slltfthly .tcmthly 
Noun to t:;OO 01.nL i'<ioon tQ 1~00 a.m..
L-----------·L----------·
lf your group Is having a me-eting or planning: a get-tflgethert call for information on om Large Order Ols~Count, 
••..•.•.•.•.•.•••.•.·.·_'·.·.'.·.·.......,,._ _., ',•••.··,·············.•···-~-····.,_~.•'_'· ,•.,: .•. •.· •·.·.·.··········~.~-.'...
: RJ~V: :·.,,,,,,,,,. .··.'_ .• ··.. _·.··_·..•_·.··············...•• •.....•...... ..... .••.• ·•·..... ··· ........ ..·RY_.:·.·.. ·.'.'_·.. ···.·······_•.•.',u_r_•_.••_.' .....·..'''···.····"'····
_ '_ ······.····"· ....
Nf:m~ (?'~t P~~ J~~~!s ~··· ~-.~l a ,.......,.",..... 1'""'"'"" "' Try our Chkk~~ s..rtrequt! Ba-con on uur thJn -crus,t pJz.za duugh 
W~e NOW u-tter Gr11~4 thh~..~n and fr~m slic::ed Ruma TomatJ;re.s 

... .. • •. , ..•..•. :,_::._.,_:,_:• .I 
~:~~?~~?~??{~\)~~~=~~~~~;;;;;;;{;:;~;=~=~=~· .•..••. 'l.1_•·-·····.~.-·.P.ltm. t
..· lZl~11tZ.:i ::::\ '''· ,,,._ '·.•..•..•..••.·.:.:._·:.z '.••.W<.'.'······-•••·-···''·''·''·••.·i
·.· .. ·:-··:::::·:::·:·:·: 
Try our Spm011d1 Altr~dtt Chidum Tum~to 

... 
page 22 Wednesday, August 25, 2004
The Observer + SPORTS 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Marlins drop Giants in key wild card match up 
Cubs outlast rain and Brewers, gain agame on San Francisco 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -The Florida Marlins started a big series against the San Francisco Giants with a big inning. 
Alex Gonzalez hit a three­run homer to cap a seven-run first inning, and Mike Lowell drove in five runs to help Florida win 9-1 on Tuesday night. 
With the win, the defending World Series champions opened a three-game set tout­ed as their most important so far this season. Florida won for the eighth time in 11 games and pulled within four games of the Giants, who began the night tied with Chicago for the NL wild-card lead. 
A.J. Burnett (4-6) allowed just two hits both singles by Edgardo Alfonzo and one run in seven innings. Throwing at up to 100 mph, he walked four and hit a batter. and the Giants' only run scored on a bases-loaded wild pitch. 
The Marlins tied a franchise record with their seven-run first against left-bander Wayne Franklin (2-1), making just his second start this sea­son to fill in for injured ace Jason Schmidt. 
Pirates 3, Diamondbacks 1 
Oliver Perez pitched eight sharp innings, Daryle Ward homered and the Pittsburgh Pirates snapped a five-game losing streak with a win over the Arizona Diamondbacks on Tuesday night. 
Pirates left fielder Jason Bay reached over the wall to take away a two-run homer from Alex Cintron in the first, and Perez faced few problems after that. 
Perez (9-6). who entered the game leading the National League with an average of 11 strikeouts per nine innings, fanned nine and walked two. He struck out five over his last two innings. 
Perez gave up five hits and Jose Mesa pitched a perfect ninth for his 34th save in 39 chances. 
San Diego 3, New York 1 
David Wells continued his road dominance Tuesday night. taking a shutout into the ninth inning and pitching the San Diego Padres past the 
-
New York Mets. 
The only hits against the 41­year-old Ieft-hander until the ninth were a pair of first-
Roccd¥ 
Restaurant 
inning singles to Jeff 
Keppinger and Gerald 
Williams. The Mets knocked 
Wells out of the game with 
two outs on a double by 
Williams and Richard 
Hidalgo's RBI single. 
Trevor Hoffman came in and 
struck out Mike Cameron on 
three pitches for his 32nd 
save. 
It was the fifth straight road 
victory for Wells, whose only 
loss away from home came on 
April 19 at San Francisco. 
Wells (8-7) struck out four 
and walked none and came 
within one out of his 13th 
career shutout. It would've 
also been his first complete 
game of the year and 53rd of 
his career. 
Dodgers 10, Expos 2 
Adrian Beltre hit a grand slam of the season to become the first player to reach 40 home runs this year, and Alex Cora homered and had five RBis to lead the Los Angeles Dodgers over the Montreal Expos Tuesday night. 
Los Angeles scored eight times in the fifth, its biggest inning of the season. Beltre connected off Rocky Biddle (4­
7) for his fourth career slam, his second this season, and Cora hit a three-run drive against Francis Beltran. 
Cora also had an RBI single in the second and a run-scor­ing grounder in the ninth. tying his career high for RBis. 
Kazuhisa Ishii (12-6). who had been 0-2 in six starts July 16, allowed two runs in 7 1-3 innings. 
Astros 4, Phlllles 2 
Lance Berkman and Mike Lamb hit RBI singles in the eighth inning and the Houston Astros used a rare relief appearance by Roy Oswalt to defeat the Philadelphia Phillies Tuesday night. 
The Astros won for the sev­enth time in nine games. 
Carlos Hernandez pitched seven strong innings for Houston and left with the score tied at 2. 
The Astros then turned to Oswalt, who had not relieved since July 2, 2002. The right­hander had made 64 straight starts since that time, but went only 2 2-3 innings Sunday against Chicago before being ejected for hit­ting Michael Barrett. 
Oswalt (14-9) pitched a per­fect eighth, striking out two. Brad Lidge worked the ninth for his 16th save in 19 chances. 
Hernandez made his third start this year after sitting out the past 1 1/2 seasons with shoulder surgery. He allowed 


WELCOME BACK, STUDENTS! SEE vou AT Rocco's! 
Tirst Orieina( Pizza in rfown! 
Since 1951 Specializing in Italian Entrees Tues. -Thurs.: 5:00PM -11 :OOPM Fri. -Sat.: 5:00PM -1:OOAM 537 North SL. Louis South Bend, IN 574-233-2464 


two runs and six hits, striking out six and walking four. 
Atlanta 6, Colorado 5 

Rafael Furcal went 4-for-4, including a two-run triple in Atlanta's four-run sixth inning, and Eli Marrero drove in the go-ahead run with an RBI single in the seventh to lead the Braves to a victory over the Colorado Rockies on Tuesday night. 
Marrero and Julio Franco each went 3-for-4 for the Braves, who used 14 hits to rally past the Rockies after falling behind by four runs. Atlanta remained 7 1/2 games ahead of Florida in the NL East. 
With Colorado leading 5-1 in the sixth, Shawn Estes gave up a double to Franco to open the inning and Marrero hit an infield single to put runners on first and third. Charles Thomas hit into a fielder's choice to score Franco. Pinch­hitter Mark DeRosa followed with a single, knocking Estes out of the game. 
Furcal greeted Tim Harikkala (5-3) with a two­run triple that made it 5-4, and Marcus Giles tied it with a run-scoring double. 
Cincinnati 4, St. Louis 3 
Pitching while appealing a 10-day suspension, Julian Tavarez allowed the game­winning run to score in the 10th inning Tuesday night on Darren Bragg's single. which gave the Cincinnati Reds a win over the St. Louis Cardinals. 
Tavarez {5-4). penalized by the commissioner's office for applying a foreign substances to balls in a game he pitched last week, gave up a leadoff single in the 1Oth to Juan Castro, who advanced on Jason LaRue's sacrifice. 
Jacob Cruz walked and Bragg singled to right, with Castro beating the throw to the plate. 
Joe Valentine (1-1) pitched 1 1-3 innings for his first major league win. 
Cubs 13, Brewers 4 
Moises Alou homered twice and had a career-high six RBis, and Derrek Lee hit a grand slam to lead the Chicago Cubs over Milwaukee Tuesday and send the Brewers to their seventh straight loss. 
Alou hit a three-run homer in the first inning, a two-run homer in the fourth and a sac­rifice fly in the seventh as Chicago won for the sixth time in seven games and opened a one-game lead in the NL wild­card race over San Francisco. 
Alou. who has 31 homers, reached 30 for the third time in his career. 
Aramis Ramirez hit a solo homer off the left-field foul pole, and Corey Patterson went 3-for-4 and scored four runs for the Cubs, who built a 10-0 lead by the fourth inning. Nomar Garciaparra, who had missed three straight games because of a strained left wrist, went 0-for-4 and came out following a 1-hour, 4-minute rain delay in the seventh. 
Matt Clement (9-11). who had been 0-2 in four starts since winning at Milwaukee on July 26, struck out eight in six innings, allowing seven hits. He didn't allow a hit in the first four innings, then gave up two-run homers in the fifth to Bill Hall and Scott Podsednik. 



Need a job this fall? 
_The Develop_ment Phone Centeris hiring! 
Questions? Call Kelly McMahon at 631-8426. 
Make money, win prizes, and build your resume. Apply Today! 

Notre Dame 
ANNUAL FUND 

----~-~------------.-------~~--_.._.., 
Wednesday, August 25, 2004 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 


we come week 2004 

I I I 
-II 
I 
I 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, August 25, 2004 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Mulder wins league high 17th game in Ns win 
3-2 in the sixth, Orlando stole his 19th and 20th bases.Jeter hits milestone Cabrera hit a one-out double After Matsui's hit, Enrique and Bill Mueller followed with Wilson singled off David
home run, Yanks win 

a walk. Mirabelli then hit a 2-Riske, but left fielder Judy 1 pitch from Miguel Batista Gerut threw out Matsui with a 
Associated Prt:ss 

(9-1 0) to left to give Boston a one-hop throw to the plate. 5-3 lead. Tom Gordon (6-3) pitched a 
OAKLAND -Mark Mulder In the bottom of the inning, scoreless eighth, and Mariano became the majors' first 17-Wakefield loaded the bases in Rivera got three outs for his game winner, and the the bottom half by walking 43rd save in 46 chances. New Oakland Athletics moved a Gregg Zaun, allowing an York starters haven't won season-best 19 games over infield single to Gabe Gross since Jon Lieber at Seattle on .500 with a 6-2 victory over and hitting Chris Gomez with Aug. 13. the Baltimore Orioles on a pitch. Rangers 5, Twins 4 Tuesday night. Timlin came in and got out Mark Teixeira singled home 
Eric Chavez and Jermaine of the jam by striking out the winning run with two outs Dye both homered for the A's, Reed Johnson and Orlando in the ninth inning, and the who won for the eighth time Hudson swinging, and getting Texas Rangers rallied to beat in 10 games to maintain their Alex Rios to groundout. Ten Minnesota Tuesday night and narrow lead over Anaheim in of Timlin's 13 pitches in the stop the Twins' four-game the AL West race. inning were for strikes. winning streak. 
Mulder (17-4) didn't have Devil Rays 6, Mariners 5 With the Twins in front, 4-3, his best stuff. and he had to Tino Martinez hit a two-run Gerald Laird led off the ninth labor through innings more homer in the first inning to with a single off Joe Nathan than usual. but was staked to back Rob Bell, and the Tampa (1-2). After Alfonso Soriano a four-run lead in the first by Bay Devil Rays hung on to and David Dellucci struck out, the A's offense. beat the Seattle Mariners Michael Young doubled into 
The Orioles lost their eighth Tuesday night. the left-field corner to tie the straight, scoring in the second Seattle (46-78) dropped 32 score, giving Nathan just his on Darnell McDonald's RBI games under .500 for the first third blown save in 37 groundout and in the fifth on time since finishing the 1983 chances. a double by Melvin Mora. season 60-102. The Mariners Hank Blalock was walked games. his 1OOth strikeout of the sea­They're on a season-high 13-have been in last place in the intentionally, Nathan threw a Adam Kennedy was 4-for-4 son in just 65 1-3 innings. game road trip the club's AL West since the second day wild pitch and Teixeira sin­with a sacrifice fly and an RBI Rodriguez, who two years longest stretch away from of the season. gled just inside the right-field single for the Angels, who ago became the youngest home since the 2000 season. Bell (6-7) allowed two runs foul line. won for the 15th time in 19 pitcher to win a World Series 
Sidney Ponson (8-13) strug­only one earned and three Pinch-hitter Justin Morneau games and are a season-best game, is the fifth pitcher in gled against the A's lineup for hits in seven innings. After had tied the score in the top 18 games over .500 (72-54). the Angels' 44-year history to the second straight start, Danys Baez allowed a two­half with an RBI double off John Lackey (11-10) earned strike out at least 100 batters allowing four runs on four run single to pinch-hitter Francisco Cordero (3-0). his seventh victory in nine in a season without starting a hits in the first inning. Bucky Jacobsen and a RBI Angels 7, Royals 5 decisions, throwing 94 pitches game. The others were Mark 
A's manager Ken Macha single to Jose Lopez in the Jose Guillen hit a two-run in just five innings and allow­Clear (105 in 1980), DeWayne batted Erubiel Durazo in the ninth, he threw a called third homer and the Anaheim ing five runs on seven hits. Buice (109, 1987). Bryan cleanup spot against Ponson strike past Willie Bloomquist Angels converted a throwing One was a three-run triple by Harvey (101, 1991) and after the designated hitter with a runner on first to end error by Kansas City Royals Calvin Pickering, who has 11 Percival (100, 1996). homered twice off the right­it. second baseman Desi RBis in three games since the Percival pitched a scoreless hander and three times in all Martinez, who reached 20 Relaford into the tying and Royals promoted him from ninth, becoming the only last Wednesday. Dye has been homers for the ninth time, go-ahead runs in a victory Triple-A Omaha on Sunday. active pitcher in the majors in the No. 4 hole most of the tied Cecil Fielder for 87th on Tuesday night that extended Francisco Rodriguez pitched with nine consecutive seasons year. the career list at 319. their winning streak to seven a hitless eighth and recorded of at least 25 saves. White Sox 9, Tigers 5 Ryan Franklin (3-13) 
Juan Uribe homered, scored dropped to 0-9 in 14 starts the go-ahead run and drove since beating the Chicago in three runs, helping the White Sox on June 5. He Chicago White Sox beat the allowed four runs and eight Detroit Tigers Tuesday night hits in eight innings, match­to end a five-game losing ing his career high for losses streak. (11-13 last season). 
Jon Garland (9-9) won for Tampa Bay's Jorge Cantu just the second time in nine had a career-high three hits, starts since defeating Seattle and Carl Crawford also had on July 9, giving up four runs three hits for the Devil Rays. and eight hits in seven Seattle's Ichiro Suzuki had innings. his 199th hit and is batting an 
Wilfredo Ledezma (3-1), AL-best .369. who had won his previous two New York 5, Cleveland 4 starts, allowed five runs and Derek Jeter homered lead­seven hits in six innings, ing off the game for his which matched his longest 1,OOOth career run, then stole outing since moving into the a pair of bases in the ninth starting rotation on July 30. inning and scored on Hideki 
Carlos Pena hit a third­Matsui's two-out single to inning grand slam for Detroit, lead the New York Yankees which lost for just the third over Cleveland Tuesday night,
-
time in 10 games. It was the the Indians' ninth straight third slam of Pena's career. loss. He also had a game-ending New York, which rallied grand slam against Arizona from a 4-1 deficit, has won on June 27. two straight after losing six of Boston 5, Toronto 4 seven and remained 6 1/2 
Doug Mirabelli hit a go­games ahead of second-place ahead three-run homer in the Boston in the AL East. It was sixth inning, and Mike Timlin the Yankees' 48th come-from­pitched out of a bases loaded behind win, the most in the jam in the bottom half to help major leagues. the Boston Red Sox beat the Cleveland, which had been Toronto Blue Jays on Tuesday one game behind AL Central­night. leading Minnesota on Aug. 
Manny Ramirez drove in 15, began the night eight two runs for the Red Sox, who games behind the Twins. The have won seven of eight and Indians are on their longest remained 6 1/2 games behind skid since losing 10 straight New York in the AL East. in 1979. 
Tim Wakefield (10-7) Jeter, hit on the left elbow allowed three runs and 10 by a pitch from Bob Wickman hits in five-plus innings for (0-2) on Monday, showed no his fifth win in his last six signs of lingering problems. starts. Keith Foulke got four He hit his 16th homer in the outs for his 23rd save in 28 first inning, then walked chances. against Wickman with the 
With the Blue Jays leading score 4-all in the ninth and 

The Visa®'Credit Card . ·t·h· v,· · ·· c· d'tW1 · . otJr 1sau ... re .. 1 Card~ you can make 0online paym.ents and NOTRE DAMEview your balance FEDERAl CREDIT UNION Ybt~ ton b.;;nk on U$at any time. t-o be berter 5141631 ~8222 ·• www.ndteu.org  


-----------------------------. 
Wednesday, August 25, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
NBA 
Dampier traded to Mavericks 
Associated Press 
DALLAS -The Dallas Mavericks got a big man, com­pleting an eight-player deal Tuesday that will bring Erick Dampier from Golden State. 
Dallas sent Christian Laettner. Eduardo Najera, two future first-round draft picks and the draft rights to guards Luis Flores and Mladen Sekularac to the Warriors for Dampier, Dan Dickau, Evan Eschmeyer and the draft rights to Steve Logan. 
The 6-foot-11 Dampier aver­aged career highs of 12.3 points and 12 rebounds in 7 4 games last season for the Warriors. lie was fourth in the NBA in rebounding. and one of just nine players to average more than 10 points and 10 rebounds a game. 
Dampier opted out of his contract with the Warriors in late June and became a free agent after seven seasons with Golden State. 
In a release. the Mavericks said Dampier signed a multi­year deal with Golden State before the trade was complet­ed. Contract details weren't immediately available. 
Donnie Nelson. the Mavericks president of basket­ball operations. was in Greece for the Olympics and not immediately available for com­ment. 
A call to Dampier's cell phone was not immediately 

While Dampier gives the Mavericks a much-needed big man for coach Don Nelson, Golden State achieved some objectives as well with the trade. 
"We acquired quality players who can help our team now and several prospects that bode well for our future," said Chris Mullin, the Warriors' 

returned Tuesday evenin 
new executive vice of 
TH~ llUTH IS... -----~ 

INGR~DI~NTS SHOULD N~V~R . !\ < 1;1.. ~I
•...•.. ..·.· II

9~ g~e... ..•
.. I\ 
SOME fHIN~S SHOULP &E -LIKE YOUR SECREr LIFE AS ACRIME-FI~HnN~ SUPERHERO. &Ur HEY. YOUR FOOP SHOULPN'f &E HIPIN~ ANYfHIN~. SO WlfH OUR SANPWICHES, WE PROMISE YOU'LL RECO~NIZE EVERY PELICIOUS &IrE. 
UT Ttl TRUTH R~ KMlWN~ 

SERIOUS SANDWICH DEliVERY , 
<,; 
0 

54570 N. IRONWOOD -574,.277-~8500 
basketball operations. 
Najera averaged 4.9 points and 3. 9 rebounds a game in his four seasons with the Mavericks, shooting 51 percent from the field. He was limited by knee problems last season. 
Laettner, a 12-year veteran. spent the last three seasons in Washington before being trad­ed back to Dallas on draft night. He has averaged 13.3 points and 6.9 rebounds over 819 career games with Minnesota, Atlanta, Detroit, Dallas and Washington. 
Flores was the 55th overall pick by Houston in the June draft, but acquired by Dallas. Sekularac, who has played professionally in Europe since 1996, was the 55th overall pick by Dallas in the 2002 draft. 
Dickau was traded from Portland to Golden State last month, and Eschmeyer missed all of last season due to multi­ple knee operations after going from Dallas to the Warriors in another multiplayer trade last summer. Logan was a second­round pick by the Warriors two years ago. 

Bryant judge to restrict photos 

Associated Press 
DENVER-The judge in the Kobe Bryant rape case on Tuesday sharply restricted how the news media may cover the trial using televi­sion and still cameras. saying he was worried too much exposure could threaten the fairness of the proceedings. 
District Judge Terry Ruckriegle said no cameras will be allowed during wit­ness testimony or jury selec­tion. Still photography will be allowed during opening statements and closing argu­ments. Video and audio cov­erage will be allowed only during closing arguments. 
Attorneys for news organi­zations including The Associated Press had asked to be allowed to photograph and videotape the entire trial. Attorneys for the alleged victim joined prose­cutors and defense attorneys in opposing the request. 
Bryant, 26, has pleaded not guilty to felony sexual assault. saying he had con­sensual sex about the poten­tial for witness intimidation and anxiety stemming from physical threats made against the alleged victim, prosecutors and others involved in the case. 
"The increased anxiety and apprehension of witnesses that flow from the public dis­play of an image or live testi­mony reduces the court's ability to maintain a fair trial," he said. 
Ruckriegle also prohibited any photographs of jurors and any audio coverage or close-up photographs of con­ferences at the bench or dis­cussions between attorneys or attorneys and their clients. 
Ruckriegle said attorneys in the case have shown "no propensity for showboating or grandstanding" but con­cluded there was a likeli­hood that cameras would affect witnesses, some of whom displayed reluctance and discomfort during pre­trial hearings. 
"Substantial portions of the testimony may no doubt be embarrassing and humiliat­ing for some of the partici­pants and will likely exact some measure of intense psychological stress. if not a physical distress," Ruckriegle said. 
The ruling struck a bal­ance between the need to ensure a fair trial and the First Amendment rights of the media, said Bob Pugsley, a professor at Southwestern University School of Law. 
"I think that from the O.J. [Simpson] media debacle. judges have become very averse to allowing real-time television coverage of pro­ceedings, including the trial in their courtrooms," Pugsley said. 
Steven Zansberg. one of the attorneys for the news organizations, said the deci­sion reflects the judge's con­cern with how cameras may affect witnesses. 
He said the ruling cannot be appealed. 

OUND THE NATION 
Page 26 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRI SERVICES Wednesday, August 25, 2004 

NFL 
team record HewYoti< 77-47 Boston 70·53 Baltimore 57·66 Tampa Bay 57-68 Toronto 53-72 
team record 
Minnesota 70·54 Cleveland 63-64 Chicago 61-62 DetroII 59-66 Kansas Cltyu 44-78 
team 
Oakland 
Anaheim 
Texas 
Seattle 
team record last 10 
Atlanta 70-53 Florida 62·60 Philadelphia 62-63 New York 59·65 Montreal 53-72 
team record 
St.Loubl 82-42 Chicago 68-56 
HOU$IOR 62·62 
Cincinnati 59-64 Pittsburgh 59·66 Milwaukee 55·68 
team record 
Colo~do 55·69 Arizona 39-88 



around the dial 
MLB Milwaukee at Chicago 1 :20 p.m., Fox Sports New York at Cleveland 6:05 p.m., ESPN2 Baltimore at Oalkand 9:05 p.m., ESPN2 
POKER World Poker Tour 8:00p.m., Travel 


Associated Press 
HEMPSTEAD. N.Y. Herman Edwards believes not giving Quincy Carter a second chance would be a crime. 
That's how the New York Jets' coach explained the team's signing Tuesday of the former Dallas starting quarterback who was sur­prisingly released by the Cowboys three weeks ago. 
The fact the Jets were desperate for a backup to Chad Pennington had a lit· tie to do with the move, too. 
"The worst thing you can do to any individual is not give them hope," Edwards said after Carter signed a one-year deal. "If a nega­tive situation happens to a person in life, if you won't give them hope, shame on you." 

Edwards hopes Carter provides a solid option should Pennington get hurt the way he did last sum­mer. Pennington, entering his fifth NFL season, broke his right wrist a year ago in a preseason game and although the Jets had Vinny Testaverde as a backup, they got off to a slow start and never recov­ered. 
Testaverde, coincidental­ly, now is the starter in Dallas, so in essence the 
teams traded quarter­backs. 
"You know, in this game, we learn that surprises, there are a lot of them," Carter said before donning a No. 17 jersey and throw­ing a handful of passes in a lengthy practice session. "I know that things happen and you've just got to move on. 
"But I was shocked." 
Carter was cut Aug. 4 amid reports he failed a drug test and the NFL Players Association has filed a request for arbitra­tion in the case. Gene Upshaw, the union's execu­tive director, told The Associated Press on 
IN BRIEF 
Colts P-lan to release two 
offensive linemen 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis Colts expected to release offensive linemen Rex Richards and Matt Griebel, coach Tony Dungy said Tuesday. 
Dungy was uncertain whether the official moves would come Tuesday night or Wednesday. 
The first cutdown day is Aug. 31, and the Colts rarely make early moves. Dungy said the releases were "special situations" and that both players met with him because they believed there were opportunities to play elsewhere. 
"It seemed like the right time to do it," Dungy said. 
Richards, a 6-foot-4, 315-pound guard, joined the Colts as a free agent for the second straight year. He has been cut both times. 
Griebel. a 6-2. 298-pound guard from Indiana State, was an undraft­ed free agent. 

Capriati advances into 
quarterfinals of Pilot Pen 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. -Third-seed­ed Jennifer Capriati outserved and outlasted Tatiana Golovin on long points Tuesday to advance to the quarterfinals of the Pilot Pen tennis tournament. 
Capriati, the defending Pilot Pen champion, defeated Golovin 6-3, 6-2 in about an hour. 
Also advancing to the quarterfinals was No. 7 Elena Bovina with a 6-3, 6-2 win over qualifier Marta Marrero. 
Capriati used a serve that topped out at 117 mph and a punishing backhand to overwhelm Golovin, who made mistake after mistake in the match. 
In the second set, Golovin had four chances in the fourth game to break Capriati, but failed on key points to keep the ball in the court. 
"I know she wasn't making many errors, and I kind of made the wrong Tuesday that the NFLPA will continue to press thn case. 
"We have to," he said, adding that part of the grievance involves poten­tial salary loss to Carter. 
"You'll have to ask Dallas why they released me," Carter said. "All I got was the papers." 
Edwards said the Jets didn't want to rush into anything with Carter _ or any other veteran quarter­back, which is why it took so long before they brought in Carter for a tryout. Edwards also defended his backups, second-year pro Brooks Bollinger and CFL refugee Ricky Ray. 

choices sometimes," Golovin said. 
Capriati said it was exactly the kind of opening match she wanted to test her game after a few weeks of rest for a hamstring injury. 
"I felt good out there. I felt like I was making a lot of good gets, and I was able to go the long points," Capriati said. 
Golovin said she would take the match as a learning experience as she continues her rise through the WTA rankings. from the 300s last year to 30th this week. 
In the second match, Bovina faced just one break point in cruising to a win over Marrero. 
Bovina was the aggressor through­out, keeping the Spaniard on the move and hitting clean winners off Marrero's drop shots. 
Bovina broke once in the first set to take a 3-2 lead, and served out. She broke twice in the second, the last with a forehand winner down the line to take a 5-2 lead. 
Wednesday, August 25, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 27 
BASEBALL 
Season ends prematurely after loss to Arizona 
Wildcats' hurler MeLoan too much for Irish at home 
By JOE HETTLER 
Sports Wricer 
Two years ago, Notre Dame shocked the college baseball world by beating No. 1 Florida State to advance to the College World Series. After recording the final out, Notre Dame play­ers rushed the field and creat­ed a dogpile on the mound. 
The same scene happened this year at Frank Eck Stadium. Except a different team did the celebrating. 
No. 3 seed Arizona ended Notre Dame's season in the NCAA Regional Tournament with a 7-6 win against the Irish June 6. 
"Our kids played hard right until the end," Irish head coach Paul Mainieri said. "If you were in that dugout, it was nothing but optimism, positive talk. We all believed we were going to do it. Sometimes in this busi­ness, you don't get over the hump. It's been a great year." 
The Irish scored six runs off Arizona starter John MeLoan in eight innings, but couldn't hold ofT the Wildcats seventh-inning rally. Notre Dame freshman pitcher Dan Kapala walked Arizona's leadoff hitter Trevor Crowe, Jeff Van Houten sacri­ficed Crowe to second before Jordan Brown singled in the run. MeLoan finished the game after throwing 141 pitches and surrendering all his runs via the long ball. First baseman Matt Edwards hit two homers and Steve Andres and Cody Rizzo added their own shots on a windy day. 
Arizona closer Koley Kohlberg finished the game for his second save of the season. 
"When I saw that the wind was blowing out today, I felt good about the way we swing the bats, but [MeLoan] was really tough," Mainieri said. "He was a competitor, and we had a tough time with him. I'm disappointed for the kids. I'm not disappointed in them." 
The Irish threatened in the top of the ninth when freshman Danny Dressman leadoff with a walk. But Dressman was picked off first after slipping in the dirt trying to dive back to the bag. All-Americans Matt Macri and Steve Sollman struck out to end the game. 
"They threw an excellent pitcher again, and he had his good stuff. It didn't work out for us that way," Edwards said. "We all thought we could come back and do this. Everybody had confidence and we were ready to go today. We just got beat out there today, and not because of anything that hap­pened earlier this week. We put that all behind us and we were ready to go." 
Notre Dame starting pitcher freshman Jeff Samardzija cruised through the first three innings before struggling in the fourth. The Wildcats pushed four in the fourth to take a 4-2 lead. Samardzija went 5 113 innings allowing five runs on seven hits and striking out six and walking zero. 
Senior Joe Thaman surren­dered one run in 2/3 of an inning in the sixth before Kapala came on. 

Notre Dame finished the sea­son 51-12 record and another Big East championship. The 51 wins were the most ever by any Notre Dame baseball team and the team had five players draft­ed into the Major Leagues. 
Kent State 2, Notre Dame 1 

Notre Dame lost the opening game against No. 4 seed Kent State June 4 when Golden Flash starting pitcher Andy Sonnastine threw a masterful game in a 2-1 victory. The big righthander went seven innings, allowed one unearned run and struck out seven and walked just two. He effectively moved his slider inside and out­side the plate to keep the Notre Dame hitters off balance all day. 
"The stage was set," Mainieri said. "I guess someone just for­got to tell Kent State not to do what they did today." 
Kent State manufactured a run in the fifth and added another on an RBI double in the eighth. Notre Dame's only run was unearned. 
The loss put the Irish in the losers bracket in the double elimination format. 
Notre Dame 6, University of California-Irvine 5 

The Irish stayed alive with a victory over the Anteaters June 
5. Right-hander Grant Johnson clawed his way through five innings, allowing four runs (three earned) while striking out four and walking three. Notre Dame's bullpen allowed just one unearned run through the next four innings to close out the game. 
The Irish jumped on the 

Jeff Samardjlza delivers a pitch last season. The Irish fell to Arizona In postseason action to end the season. 
Show your student I.D. & get 
15°/o off 
regular price merchandise. 
Here*s a no...:brainer: Simply show your valid student I.D. and save lS% on aU regutar prlc~ stuff.. {That's a lot of stu.ff.l But you·d better huny.. Come Septelllbe'r 26th. this otters his-tory. Sorry. cannot be used With any other d.lsrount or otter. 
Offer ends September 26" 2004. 


board early, scoring one in the first and three more in the third. But Irvine battled back with a three-run fourth before tying the contest in the fifth. 
Notre Dame took the lead for good in the bottom of the fifth when Craig Cooper hit an RBI sacrifice fly. Notre Dame 7, Kent State 1 
Irish starting pitcher Tom Thornton didn't give Kent State a chance to pull off another upset. 
In Notre Dame's second game of the day, Thornton was bril­liant by throwing for 8 1/3 innings, yielding just three hits and one run while striking out 
Volleyball 
continued from page 32 
don't want to be blocked and commit errors." 
At practice, the two have been honing their skills through scrimmages on oppo­site sides of the net. 
The duo view practice as a time to challenge the other, and to learn from each others' strengths and weaknesses. 
"[Brewster] is such a big presence in the front row. We almost take her for granted. You really notice the differ­ence when she's not playing," Loomis said. "Every day I play her in practice, I know I'm playing the best." 
Both Brewster and Loomis are quick to credit their team­mates for the team's success and seem almost uncomfort­12 and walking only two. He left the game in the ninth to a loud standing ovation from the crowd. 
From the start, this game was much different than the first matchup between these two teams. 
The Irish scored two in the first and added runs in the third, fifth, sixth and seventh innings. Steve Andres lead the Notre Dame offense by going 3­for-3 and driving in two runs. The win pushed the Irish into the championship game June 6. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
able with the praise they gar­ner. 
"Our outside hitters do such a great job of setting the block up. It's really a combined effort at the net. Because the setters do such a great job with ball placement, we can do our job," Brewster said. 
The combined Irish efforts at the net in conjunction with a solid back row are what Brown believes will put the Irish among the top teams in the country. 
She looks to Brewster and Loomis to lead the charge. 
"This year, I'm hoping they can dominate at the net, and I think they can," she said "They both hit and block effectively and their presence at the net will be hard for their opponents to adjust for." 
Contact Ann Loughery at 
alougher@nd.edu 
Wildcats 
continued from page 32 
working on both sides of the ball," Clark said. "When they had the ball, did we have good shape, and were we able to pressure when they moved into dangerous areas? When we had the ball, could we pene­trate, get forward quickly, and keep the ball? 
"We did a reasonable job at times, some times better than others. I think we did quite well, but I also know that we still have quite a lot of room to improve." 
With the first of two exhibi­tion games under its belt, Notre Dame travels to Chicopee, Mass., Saturday to challenge Massachusetts at 7 p.m. in its final preseason game. 
The Irish open the regular season Sept. 3 when they lock horns with Oregon State in Bloomington, Ind. at Indiana's Adidas/IU Credit Union Classic. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
Wednesday, August 25, 2004 

page 28 The Observer + SPORTS 
Hoyte 
continued from page 32 
keep your linebackers fresh," Simmons said. "We have Mike Goolsby, who is available now. And that gives those other guys a chance to really take a break." 
Goolsby (6-foot-4, 242 pounds) has experience from the 2002 season but did not play in 2003 due to a collar­bone injury. 
His return will add depth to what could be one of the strongest positions on the defensive side of the ball. 
"It is extremely nice [to have depth at linebacker) and that makes it one of the strengths of our football team." Willingham said. "We're really pleased to have it, and not only just to have it but they have done great things with it." 
One of the most vocal line­backers and players on the team, Curry (6-foot-3, 235 pounds) could start at middle linebacker. Curry saw middle linebacker duties last season in the Irish defense's nickel packages. 
"It's nice to have experi­ence." Willingham said. "It's nice to have confidence. But if you don't share those things then it really doesn't mean a lot to a team environment. The !linebackers) arc sharing. They're leading not only by example but by stepping up and saying the right things at the appropriate times." 
While vocal leaders Goolsby. Curry and Hoyte boast the most experience, Mays has worked his way into signifi­cant playing time. 
The 6-foot-1, 243-pound senior made 26 tackles last year but hopes for better numbers after taking a solid number of snaps in the spring and fall. 
"I don't think you ever put a label on a guy who has a lot of ability [and say he is] the most improved player, but along those lines Corey keeps getting better and better," Willingham said. "What we need from Corey are the things that he is working hardest on, which is to be able to communicate about where everybody else goes, not just where Corey goes, and he's starting to do a very good job of that." 
Notes 
Coach Tyrone Willingham and the Irish began their preparation for the BYU Cougars Tuesday, 11 days before the team opens its sea­son at Lavell Edwards Stadium. 
Willingham said the early stages of learning the Cougars' schemes have slowed practice from the two­a-day pace that ended after Monday's practice. Still, early preparation is necessary. 
"The focus was to start some of the initial learning for BYU. so we did that," Willingham said. "We'd love to have it be very spirited, but if it's not it's the learning that is important." 
Ending two-a-day practice calls for a quick transition into the preparation phase. 
"Coming out of two-a-days, you're most sore, you're most hurt," Willingham said. "That's where you're fatigued the most. So we're just com­ing out of that period. Where we really start to get a build up is probably coming out of this [coming) weekend. Even though that is only one week away from the game, there still is that time before every­thing seems to be crystallized for you." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

FOR SALE 
A NOTRE DAME FAN'S DREAM 
FULLY FURNISHm 2 BEDROOM/2 FULL BATH (~ONDOMINilJM wnH 2 CAR GARAGE~ DECK. FIREPLAf~E & SWIMMING POOL AN EASY WALK FROM THE NOTRE DAME STADIUM THE ANEST ACCOMMODATIONS THIS CLOSE TO THE ACTION READ\' FOR OCCUPANCY .. SLEEPS 10 PEOPLE As-IS BUILT-IN VACUUM, WHOLE HOUSE ElECTRONIC AIR fiLTEU DINING ARfA OVERLOOKS QUAINT PERENNIAL fiAROf.N W/PA.TIO 
FINISHED BASEMENT witb WASHER & DRYER. 2-PERSON JACUZZI & 48" T\1 NEW APPLIANCES, UNENS, KIT<'JiENWAR£. P.IUNTINf'a.."i 1\NO SUJI.PTilRfS INU.VOEU CWB HOUSE AVAILABLE FOR P4RTIES 4SKING $235~000.00 SERIOUS INQUIRIES ONLY PLEASE w CUI.. (574)277-5631 FOR AN APPOINTMENT 

Want to Write for Sports? Calll-4543 
Buy your textbooks on eBay 
and save up to ~(JfJ]" the list price. 
PREVENT OVERSPENDING 
College tor le6~., More tor ycu. 
Play online for a chance to WIN!'"
*$2.500 eBay Shopping Spreel·~~fr -?. SoBe cooler and drinks for a year! *Mobile phone and $50 
Verizon Wireless gift can,ll -fo: Thousands of other prizes! 



~ 

www.ebay.com/college
CU·:S§I IL;..« illif 



Wednesday, August 25, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 29 
F1le Photo Johnson pitches against San Jose State last season. 
730 StoreLocations in 30 States ... and GROWING! 
STORE ADDRESS: 4005 North Grape Roaa • (511~ 273-9679 
(South ofthe University Malf •In The Furniture Row Shopping Center) STORE HOURS: Monday-Saturday 10-9 pm • Sunday 11-6 pm 
Johnson 
continued from page 32 
favorite teams. 
"It feels pretty good to be drafted by a hometown team," said Johnson, who grew up in Burr Ridge, Ill. 
Notre Dame coach Paul Mainieri, said Johnson should succeed at the professional level. 
"There's no question in my mind Grant will be a Major League pitcher," said Mainieri, who has had 40 players drafted during his 10 years as Irish coach. "He has all the attrib­utes -size, arm strength, quality of pitches. But his best asset is that he's a fierce com­petitor." 

Johnson compiled a 15-5 record and a 2.89 ERA in two seasons at Notre Dame. As a freshman, Johnson helped pitch the Irish to the College World Series. He was 
named to the repaired right
"There is no
Freshman All­shoulder during American team question in my the summer. and the USA mind that Grant Since Johnson National Team. was the Cubs first
will be a Major
But Johnson pick of the draft,
League pitcher. ,
couldn't follow up they were willing his success after to give him more needing shoulder money than most
Paul Malnlerl 
surgery and miss­second-round
head coach 
ing the entire picks. 2003 season Contract talks before returning to the team in may have been disrupted for 2004. Johnson was a first-team other second-round picks had Big East selection after going 6-Johnson signed quickly with 0 with a 1.87 ERA. the Cubs for significantly more 
The 6-foot-6 starter was drafted in June, but delayed signing until August. He said the Cubs promised to get him signed, but were in no rush because Johnson was resting 
his surgically 

money than those drafted near him. Johnson declined to reveal contract terms. 
Johnson was one of five Notre Dame players drafted in June. Infielders Matt Macri (Colorado), Steve Sollman (Milwaukee) and Javi Sanchez (Minnesota) and pitcher Chris Niese! (Cleveland) have all started their professional careers in various minor league systems across the country. 
"All that have signed are playing well," Maineri said. "I think that reflects very well on the program. It gives them a chance to do well and pursue their dreams." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNT! 
Bring in any current student f,O; t11rd and we'll give you a specialdiscount on your next motrre:ss 
purchase! 
l¥J.:<e~ tl>:<I4J,>~r~1 :~ ):"1~ti1w; t>-;1fflhii&.i Ut><tir tlf.IJ." ''"'-'Jrtr~% t"-!{ ~~~lJf LOJ 


page 30 Wednesday, August 25, 2004
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Saving Is Smart. 

WE Akf JN li:JSB->f~<"?>

Shop For Your Organization At SAI'vt'S CLUB'': 
ftl:ft SMAll ~UHNfH 

Colleges • Ll niversities • Greek Organizations•Student Unions • Academic Clubs • Res:tdem::e Halh: • Students. 
:SAr\1'5 CLUH1} offers ~l large selection of top narne brands at Every Day low Cost. So finding exactly what ;tou need for your organizt~tion is easy and affordable. Studet1ts can also take advantage of the same benefits we offer our Business r\.iernbers. From spedal occasions to the daily basks.r \-ve\..-e P(>t you
t 0 ·. 

covered. Compare our prices \Vtth others and see the savings. Shopping .at S.AA·1'S ClUB is smart. 

Every Day Lovv Cost 
\-\t~ don't run oll-pJia! :S;al£!~. tifff.:t co-upon:.\~ tot:.~b<.at~s, "'£"a:ss.pott!i.,'' "VValll~ts of :5a~·ir\gs," <"if o~her girnrnk:l?> ~o ~•\''P ea.t' provide~ YOU kAv pria~s e-wt)' da,y~ 


I

• Become a Member tod~y and avoid the 10'}o Sen;ke fee : that applies to aU nonmember purchases. ' 
•

J . . . . I l
:;f;:r:.::::~';,;;~x~~· ~;:,~:y;e.::.1~l);.~~~·~;~~t~l~:~~~;.~·~~:~~~t~::~~tis~;~~:·~:~:::.~~~~-'!:;~~:-;:~·~~,ilh l t ttm O<nt~·U>'if Cu.;<".;t Jtl&~ W~<~i appbGl.!*;~ iH C.l<., :'-C., ~~r:Um-,foul.• N''s'!. V>.:>l.li !'I"Bs$;l ,p;lf t;r ·~~HH" l r}lin:)h;t>~~~·'k\'IH~ •::~itJ., (\\<::hit t<>-rd (~N~· Gl.:ib ,,,f <t'"''lil}ifl1; IWtW<Wk~i>,. ·~\'iJH.-lart Cn~d)ol (\:\\11·-M;~rl •I 
: ~:1;~17::::;~~~l~,%~~::~;~t~;:~:~·nf~~:;;~;:i:~:~~~~;:E~t:;~~~;!;;t • 
t t 
t 


lJ\l
l 
·~r ,~~. *''•' ~u~.:I<:H'• •
I 
h~' '>M~H fH~~"its< · •
J 
• 

~-----------------------------------------~ 

Wednesday, August 25, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
DILBERT 
GREETINGS, EARTHLING. I BRING YOU EITHER WISDOM OR PLANETARY ANNIHILATION. THE CHOICE IS YOURS. 

PEANUTS 
SCOTT ADAMS e r-----------------~0~----------------~
s 

~ 2 @J ~ 1  STAY IN THE BREAK ROOM. I'LL GO GET MY LEADER.  ...~ :::. ~ 1i ~  THE NEW COFFEE STIRRERS ARE GREAT, BUT I GOT THE LAST ONE.  
E  
0  
~  
Cll  
:5!  
CHARLES SCHULTZ  


HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
rJ r 
CQ004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DAKEB ± 
OFTROG 
WHAT THE SHADY SAL-ESMAN DID TO D-IE UNSUSPECTING
rJ 
1 
. BUYER. > 
www.jumble.com 
PERICH j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rJ r 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: ( 

I I I ) ( I I ) FOR A ( I I I ) 
(Answers tomorrow} 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: VERVE THINK GAINED DISMAL Answer: A complex recipe can be this -HARD TO "DIGEST" 

Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name 
Address _____________________________________ City __________ State ____ Zip_______ 
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  
ACROSS 1 "Poppycock!" 5 Iraqi port  33 Soaps, to soap operas, once 34 Cold-blooded dice roll?  64 Straws in the wind 65 Once, once  Celebrities born on this day:Elvis Costello, Sean Connery, Billy Ray Cyrus, Regis Philbin, Blair Underwood, Joanne Whalley, Kel Mitchell Happy Birthday: Your willingness to help the less fortunate will bring praise,  
1 0 Thompson of "Family" 14 Big name in oil 15 In-box contents 16 Wife, in legalese 17 Line to Penn  38 Pit crew member 41 Salinger lass 45 Testified 46 English port 49 Tapir feature  DOWN 1 Chaucerian verse form 2 1969 Mets victims 3 Napes  recognition and satisfaction this year. Also admired will be your ability to look at the big picture and find solutions. Share findings with the pertinent people in order to reach the goals you set Your numbers: 6, 19, 24, 30. 37, 39 ARIES (March 21-April19): An increase in communications can be favorable if you don't confuse issues. Be careful what is said to whom. Be prepared to deal with the dilemmas of family members.*** TAURUS (April20-May 20): Be patient and listen. If you force your opinions on your partner, you'll grow further apart. Allow others to do their own thing.  
Station 18 Sweater for the cold-blooded?  50 Long, long time 51 Fictitious Richard  4 Gunpowder holder 5 Narcotic­ ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): In-laws or neighbors are likely to cause difficulties today. Try to stay to yourself and refuse to be baited into a heated discussion. Spend time alone with your lover for best results. ***  
20 Cold-blooded idler? 22 TV extraterrestrial 23 Corrida cries 24 1983 Keaton title role  52 Cold-blooded children's play activity? 56 Cold-blooded fungi? 59 Samoan capital 60 Last of the Stuarts  yielding palms 6 Talisman 7 Calcutta wraps 8 Classic hotel name 9 breve 10 Summer attire  CANCER (June 21-July 22): Spend time doing things with children or your partner. You can handle him or her. Get involved in fitness programs that will help distract you from anger or disputes. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Concentrate on fixing up the house. There'll be a fight if your mate doesn't feel you've been carrying your weight. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You know better, so don't become trapped in unsafe financial schemes. Avoid confrontations with friends or relatives. You are not in a winning cycle when it comes to debates. Be careful as minor accidents are possible. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take care of the little things around the house. Be  
28 Microwave 61 Reason for a setting raise 30 Property 62 Shape with a receiver, in law hammer 32 Latin 101 verb 63 Stuff ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  11 Send packing 12 One of a Disney septet 13 Pairs holder? 19 Regal fur 21 Sticky stuff 25 Phone trigram contraction? 27 amis 29 Assume anew, as burdens  38 Hasp. staffers 39 Velvet finish? 40 Navy noncom 42 Bass variety 43 Professors World Peace Academy group, informally 44 White-tie, say  47 Homing pigeons' homes 48 Having one sharp 50 Prior to, in dialect 53 Air: Prefix  sympathy card 55 Get an eyeful 56 Put out 57 No longer divided 58 Collection suffix  quick to respond to whatever occurs, and you can accomplish plenty today. Yo~ will have perspective on your life and loved ones. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Honesty will play a major role in controlling the situation at home. If you are courteous, calm and mature in dealing with issues, loved ones will respect you. *** SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Be carefuL It may be fun to pretend that you're a race-car driver, but the officer who stops you won't be the least bit impressed. Stick to the rules, regardless of the situation. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can meet potential new partners at community meetings. Your interest in the region will lead to a leadership position. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't blame your mate for mishaps that you may have contributed to. Take a break, and invite mutual friends over to relieve some of the tension that has built up. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Romantic opportunities will unfold if you participate in interesting seminars. Move back into the mainstream by picking up information regarding your future prospects.*****  
30 Barbary beast  Birthday Baby: Your high-powered energetic nature will help you see pursuits  
31 Powell co-star in 1930's films  For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.  through to the end. You will always look out for the underdog and will stay ahe of any competition by doing the little extras.  
33 Jiffy  Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday  Need advire? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugenialast.com  
35 1598 edict city 36 "Wheel of Fortune" buy 37 A little butter?  crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords.  



THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, August 25, 2004 
page 32 
MEN'S SOCCER 
< Irish blank 1 Cats in preseason tilt 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
While most downplay the importance of exhibition games, head coach Bobby Clark dis­agrees. 
"[The exhibition games) are huge -they're all you get to put a team together," Clark said. "They give you a chance to evaluate, build up team cohe­sion and just generally start to build the team." 
If Monday night is any indica­tion, the No. 9 Irish are off to a good start. 
Behind a pair of goals from forwards Justin McGeeney and Tony Megna and a shut out by 2004 Iiermann Trophy Watch List goalkeeper Chris Sawyer, Notre Dame cruised to a 2-0 victory over Northwestern at Alumni Field in front of a crowd of 2,100 Monday. 
McGeeney kicked off the scor­ing for the Irish, slotting home a cross from defender Greg Dalby for a quick 1-0 advantage 11 minutes into the contest. 
Notre Dame struck again not 10 minutes later when midfield­er Nate Norman sliced into the right corner of the box and found a waiting Megna. Controlling the ball, Megna calmly beat Northwestern goal­keeper Justin Pines inside the right post to double the Irish lead and post what would be the final goal at the 20:17 mark. 
Staked to an early 2-0 lead, Sawyer ensured the Irish remained on top, recording three saves in the game, includ­ing one brilliant stop on a close­range Northwestern blast in the second half. 
Although the Irish had a num­ber of opportunities to extend their lead late in the game, they were unable to find the back of net. 
McGeeney paced the Irish attack, unleashing a team-high 5 of 19 total Notre Dame shots, while midfielder Ian Etherington posted three and both midfielder Kyle Dulworth and Megna had a pair. 
All things considered, Clark was pleased with the Irish effort. 
"In many ways we, ~ .r~re just getting our shape, getting to play with one another and 
see WILDCATS/page 27 


BASEBALL 
Johnson drafted by Cubs 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
Grant Johnson's fall semester will be like most students', but his spring will be different. 
Johnson, the 66th overall pick in the 2004 Major See Also 
L e a g u e Baseball "Season ends draft, signed 
prematurely
a contract Aug. 13 to aHer loss to 
pitch for the 
Arizona" 
Chicago Cubs and will page 27 travel to Mesa, Ariz. in the spring to prepare for his first pro season. 
The righthander will be passing up his final two years of eligibility with the Irish to play for one of his 
see JOHNSON/page 29 

VOLLEYBALL 
Loomis, Brewster dominate middle 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sporrs Writer 
Just for the record, they're winners -not wishers. 
For junior Lauren Brewster and senior Emily Loomis, there are no what-ifs or should-have-been's. 
The two middle blockers aren't ones to talk up their game; their achievements speak volumes. 
Coach Debbie Brown said both Brewster and Loomis are two of the leading blockers on the team. 
Last year, Brewster's 1.78 block average earned her the NCAA blocking title. 
An All-American, Brewster's blocking average was a mere .01 off the school record. 
She led the Irish in kills (372/3.58) and was runner-up in service aces (27/0.26). 
Loomis shined as well last season, though she made her 
contributions as an outside hitter. 
Brown decided to move the senior to the middle hitter position, describing Loomis as one of the team's strongest blockers. 
Loomis, also an All­American. led the Irish in kills (387/3.55) and was second in points (472.5/4.33). 
Further, last season. she shattered two school records -consecutive matches with 10 or more kills and most kills in a match without an error. 
"The statistical impact they made on the team last year was huge," Brown said. 
Together, the duo makes for an intimidating tag-team. 
"Other teams know they're good blockers and that's espe­cially intimidating for oppo­nent hitters," Brown said. "The hitters have to try some­thing different because they 
see VOLLEYBALL/page 27 
FOOTBALL 

Hoyte's injury, return unknown 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 

Senior linebacker Brandon Hoyte spoke last spring about his will to improve within the defensive scheme. 
"At the end of last season," he said, "I couldn't look at myself in the mirror and say I played to my potential." 
Hoyte's numbers did not indicate he needed improve­ment. 
He finished second on the team in tackles with 7 4 total and 48 solo. 
Still, Hoyte's attitude reflects the leadership role that the Irish coaches feel flows through this season's linebacking core. 
"All the players on the team are leaders," lineback­ers coach, Bob Simmons, said, "but [linebacker is] a position from a vocal stand­point of getting guys lined up to play ... based on what the defense calls. It's important for them to be leaders on our defense." 
The word "them" describes more than just the normal three linebackers set behind a defensive line. 
Seniors Mike Goolsby, Derek Curry and Corey Mays will most likely start the sea­son against BYU, with Hoyte (5-foot-11, 231 pounds) side­lined with his right arm in a sling. 
Coaches have declined to comment on Hoyte's injury or a timetable for his return. 
"What you want to do is 
see HOYTE/page 28 


FOOTBAll 
OLYMPICS 
BASEBALL

NBA 
NFL 
Irish suffer disap­
Colorado aid Nathan 
Americans Kerri 
Photos in the Kobe 

Former Dallas
Dallas Mavericks 
Maxcei was indicted in 
pointing early exit
Walsh and Misty May 
Bryant rape trial will be 

acquire forward Erick 
Cowboys quarterback 
a recruiting scandal. 
against Arizona in the
win Olympic gold in 
sharply restricted. 

Dampier from the 
signs with New York 
beach volleyball. 
College World Series. 

Golden State Warriors. 
Jets . 

... 
page 27
page 18 
page 19 
page 25 
page 25 

page 26 


SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES IN THE SouTH BEND AREA AN INSERT TO THE OBSERVER 
Where Do You Start? 
Tutoring at the Robinson Center 

Answers to Your Frequendy Asked Service Questions 
gencies in South Bend 
depend on Notre Dame 
tudents as volunteers and greatly appreciate their time, energy and enthusiasm. Working with a large number ofvolunteers, especially groups doing one-time projects, takes a considerable amount of planning and effort on behalf of the agencies. Below are some FAQs about finding a service placement in South Bend. 
How do I pick an agency? 
Decide on an organization that will fit your schedule, your goals, and your interests. Consider a placement that might complement your educational goals. The Center for Social Concerns has a great deal of information to assist you in making your decision, so please ·stop by the CSC. Once you've decided upon an organization, call the volunteer coordinator at the agency. He/she can provide you 
Directory of Service Organizations 

Addictions Life Treatment Centers 
Adult Literacy Center for Basic Learning Skills Literacy Council of St. Joseph County South Bend Community Schools 
Adult Education 
Adult-older Cardinal Nursing Center Milton Home OASIS Portage Manor REAL Services 
Children & Youth Ark Angels, Inc. Big Brothers & Big Sisters Big Brothers & Big Sisters ofND/SMC Boys and Girls Club Campus Girl Scouts, ND/SMC Casie Center Charles Martin Youth Center Children's Defense Fund Circle K Notre Dame Circle of Mercy El Campito Day Care Center Family and Children's Center Home Management Resources Hugh O'Brian Youth Foundation 
Alumni Association (ND HOBY) LEAD-ND Ms. Wizard Day Program Team Neighborhood Study Help Program Robinson Community Learning 
Center South Bend Juvenile Correctional 
Facility Southgate Dream Center St. Hedwig's Outreach Center There Are Children Here Teamwork for Tomorrow University Young Life 
with contact information so you can set up a time to meet. 
How do I plan a project for a large group? 
If you are planning a project for a large group, be certain there is interest in the project before contacting the agency and committing to a project. Check with the agency to determine if they can support a large group of volunteers for a one-time project. Be as specific as possible in terms of dates, number of volunteers, hopes for the project, etc. 
I left a message, but no one has returned my call. Why not? 
Please keep in mind that many service agencies are understaffed and may not always return phone calls promptly. You may need to call several times, so don't get discouraged. 
Continued on Page 4 
West Side Neighborhood Partnership Center Youth Services Bureau 
Criminal Justice Indiana Legal Services Michiana Dismas House United Religious Community 
Cultural Issues Broadway Christian Parish Community Alliance to Serve 
Hispanics (CASH) La Casa de Amistad 
Disability Services Best Buddies Chiara Home Corvilla, Inc. Logan Center Logan Recreation Club Reins of Life Special Friends Club SuperSibs 
Environment ND for Animals Students fOr Environmental Action 
(SEA) 
Housing/Homelessness Center for the Homeless ND/SMC Center for the Homeless 
Children's Group Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity Hope Rescue Mission Salvation Army St. Margaret's House St. Vincent de Paul South Bend Heritage Foundation 
Hunger Concerns Foodbank of Northern Indiana Foodshare World Hunger Coalition Medical AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist American Cancer Society American Red Cross Chapin Street Clinic (St. Joseph's 
Health Center) Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids ND First Aid Services Team Healthwin Specialized Care Helpful Undergraduate Students 
(HUGS) Harbor Light Hospice Hospice of St. Joseph County, Inc. Operation Smile SouthernCare Hospice St. Joseph's Chapin St. Health Center 
Volunteers. 
Multi-Service Groups Arnold Air Society Catholic Charities College Football Hall of Fame Experiential Lea.rning Council Knights of Columbus Council 1477 Northern Indiana Center for History Potawatomi Zoo Silver Wings Trident Naval Society Twenty-First Century Scholars 
Peace and Justice Issues Amnesty International Free Burma Coalition Peace Fellowship Progressive Student Alliance Notre Dame Right to Life 
Women's Concerns Campus Alliance for Rape 
Elimination (CARE) Sex Offense Services (SOS) Women's Care Center Women's Resource Center YWCA Women's Shelter 

An Invitation to Serve Your Local Community 
T
he Center for Social Concerns invites you to push the boundaries ofyour classroom into the neighborhoods of South Bend and beyond. Come and enter the lives of those who live and study and work there. Indeed, consider the ways that you might begin to be a part of the world's transformation. 
Through the years, thousands ofstudents have taken part in the numerous opportunities offered through the Center for Social Concerns and our many partners. Each student has made an important difference. 

Fr. Lies 

Often this service involvement, and remains no less our challenge and the learning that comes through call. It is the foundation on which 
and with it, transforms you. In we will build the justice we seek turn, this transformation allows and the peace for which we long.
each ofyou to be impressive agents of transformation and/or goodness Be a part of the transformation we within others' lives. This is seen are called to, and be transformed. 
within our community long after Give yourself away. One or more your time at Notre Dame, Saint of the opponunities on these pages Mary's and Holy Cross College. 
could quite possibly change you forever. 
Jesus called love the greatest of all commandments-to love the Lord God with all our hearts and to love our neighbor as ourselves (Mark 
12: 28-31). It is not easy but it 

Rooted in the Gospel and Catholic tradition, the Centerfor Social Concerns ofthe University ofNotre Dame creates formative educational and service experiences in collaboration with diverse partners, calling us to action for a more just and humane world. -Centerfor Social Concerns Mission Statement 
PAGE2 

THE GuiDE TO CoMMUNITY SERVICE 
Service & Social Action Groups 
American Cancer Society Volunteers organize on-campus awareness raising and fund-raising events. Student Contact: Kathleen Degnan at kdegnan@nd.edu 
Amnesty International Volunteers are needed for letter writing, petition signing, special campaign work, and informal discussions about human rights issues worldwide. Student Contact: Victoria Fiore at vfiore@nd.edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/~peace/ 
Arnold Air Society Arnold Air Society advocates the support of Aerospace power. Instills in its members an attitude of unselfish dedication to the mission of the Air Force and AAS and makes contributions to the community and campus. Student Contact: Joseph Walters at jwalter2@nd.edu or visit http:// www. nd.edu/~ aas/ 
Best Buddies Club members develop relationships with people with mental retardation and other developmental disabilities by going to movies, sporting events, concerts, and by participating together in recreational events. Student Contact: Madeleine Gagnon at mgagnon@nd.edu or visit http:/ /www.nd.edu/ 
~bbuddies 
Big Brothers & Big Sisters Of ND/SMC Volunteers provide shared time and friendship-between a student and a child. Student Contact: Shane Kappler at skappler@nd.edu 
Campus Alliance For Rape Elimination Volunteers are students and faculty/administrators from both NO and SMC. C.A.R.E. members make dorm presentations about rape on campus and sponsor rape support groups on campus. Student Contact: Anastasia Envall at aenvall@nd. edu 
Campus Girl Scouts, Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Volunteers work with younger Girl Scout groups in the area and perform a variety of other service activities. Student Contact: Anne Stolz at astolz@nd.edu 
ND/SMC Center For The Homeless Children's Group Volunteers spend time once a week with the children who live at the CFH. Volunteers might tutor, organize field trips and plan art & craft activities. Student Contact: Caitlin Rohn at crohn@nd.edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/~hscg/ 
Children's Defense Fund Members will help raise awareness about children's issues through a series ofeducational and service projects. Student Contact: DeMark Schulze at dschulze@nd.edu 
Circle K Notre Dame Join this service club that offers 21 weekly projects with transportation that will satisfy anyone's volunteer desires. By performing 7,000+ hours of service each year, offering over 50 leadership positions, and 800 students participating every year, Circle K was voted Club of the Year 200 1-2002! Weekly meetings: Sunday at 5:00pm in the Library auditorium. Student Contact: Jennifer Heissel at jheissel@nd.edu or visit http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ~circlekl 
Community Alliance To Serve Hispanics (CASH) Volunteers reach out to the Hispanic community of South Bend through service activities, educational programs, and awareness projects. Student Contact: Brin Anderson at banders6@nd.edu or visit http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ~cash/ 
Experiential Learning Council The Experiential Learning Council provides resources and support for student-facilitated experiential learning seminars offered through the CSC. Student Contact: Shantha Ready at sready@nd.edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/elc/ 
ND First Aid Services Team Volunteers provide coverage for inter-hall sports, concerts, home football games, AnTostal, Keenan Review, campus runs, and any other ND/SMC activity that requests the team's service. Student Contact: Michael Ude at mude@nd. edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/~fast/ 
Foods hare Volunteers deliver, in groups of four or five, the leftover food from the campus dining halls to the Center for the Homeless and Hope Rescue Mission in South Bend. Student Contact: James Martin at jmartin8@nd.edu 
Free Burma Coalition Members will help to raise awareness about the struggle in Burma and to work to restore freedom, human rights and democracy. Contact: Student Activities for coordinator name at 1-7308. 
Notre Dame Habitat For Humanity Volunteers work on construction crews, donate materials and provide meals for the work groups. Student Contact: Colin Dowdall at'cdowdall@nd.edu or visit http://www. nd.edu/~habitat/ 
Helpful Undergraduate Students (H.U.G.S) Volunteers work with the Memorial Hospital Pediatric Intensive Care Unit. Student Contact: Cara O'Connor at coconno5@nd.edu 
Hugh O'Brian Youth Foundation Alumni Association (ND HOBY) NO HOBY provides a forum for HOBY alumni at Notre Dame to continue developing their leadership through service and social action activities. Student Contact: Gale Bowman at gbowman 1 @nd.edu or visit http://www.nd.edu/ ~ndhoby/ 
Irish Fighting For St. Jude Kids Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids is a service organization that dedicates itself to year-round fundraising activities in support of St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, TN. The hospital is one of the world's premier centers for research and treatment ofcatastrophic diseases in children, primarily pediatric cancers. Student Contact: Kristen Simko at ksimko@nd.edu or visit http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ~stjude 
Knights Of Columbus Council 1477 · Volunteers help to raise funds in order to support various service and social action facilities in the area. Student Contact: Brent Burish at bburish@nd.edu or visit http:/ I www.nd.edu/~knights/ 
Lead-NO NO students work to engage at-risk teenagers in leadership development programs through leadership instruction, mentorship, and service-learning. Student Contact: Steven Cartwright at scartwri@nd.edu 
Logan Recreation Club Students volunteer for Friday night bowling, Friday night dances, and Saturday recreation. Student Contact: Meg Spring at mspring@nd.edu or visit www.logancenter.org/ Volunteers/ Activities.cfm 
Ms. Wizard Day Program Team Volunteers organize a one-day science fair in February for young women in middle school. Student Contact: Heather Berry at hberry@nd.edu or visit http:/ /www.nd.edu/ 
~mswizard/ 

ND For Animals NO for Animals promotes a compassionate, cruelty-free lifestyle. Visit our website to learn more about how you can help animals: http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ~animals/ Student Contact: Katherine Groff at kgroff@nd.edu or visit animals@nd.edu 
Neighborhood Study Help Program Volunteers tutor at a variety ofcenters twice a week for a one hour period each time. Student Contact: Frankie Bott at fbott@nd.edu 
Operation Smile Student Organization Volunteers work hand in hand with Operation Smile International raising funds to provide reconstructive surgery to children around the world. Leadership, awareness, community and FUN! Student contact: Kathryn Kinnier at kkinnier@nd.edu or visit http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ~opsmile/ 
Peace Fellowship Educates and promotes awareness of issues related to peace and justice around the world. Student Contact: Daniel Lawson at dlawson 1 @nd.edu or visit http:/ /www.nd.edu/ 
~paxchris/ 

Progressive Student Alliance PSA works for social justice by organizing around issues of interest to create change, working with other people and groups on both a local and global level. Recent focuses have been economic injustices, student power, and rights for all. Student Contact: Kamaria Porter at kporter@nd.edu or visit http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ~psal 
Notre Dame Right To Life Volunteers focus on the national abortion issue. Activities include praying outside an abortion clinic in town, dorm forums, trips to Washington, D.C., and a Right-to-Life week during the year. Student Contact: Janel Daufenbach at jdaufenb@nd.edu or visit http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ~prolife/home/ 
St. Joseph's Chapin Street Health Center Volunteers Volunteers are needed to help serve the medically indigent population in the South Bend Communty. Student Contact: Lauren O'Connor at loconno1@nd.edu 
Silver Wings (Benjamin D. Foulois Chapter) Student Contact: Stacey Walerko at wale4775@saintmarys. edu 
Facilities Available For Students Use 

H
ospitality is an important part of the Center for Social Concern's work on campus. Center hospitality includes a coffeehouse (shown above) and kitchen, a large multi-purpose room, seminar rooms, and a reflection room. These facilities are available for use by approved student and community groups. Contact the Center at 631-5293 to reserve rooms for lectures, films, liturgies, meals, other gatherings, and to inquire about the new policies surrounding vehicle use. 
Special Friends Club Volunteers work with autistic children in the South Bend community on a structured educational program in a home situation. Time commitment is 2-4 hours per week. No experience is necessary to be a "Special Friend." Student Contact: Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
Students For Environmental Action (SEA) Volunteers promote awareness ofenvironmental issues amongst the student body and the South Bend community. Student Contact: Morgan Dill at mdill@nd.edu or visit http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ~seal 
Super Sibs All club members have siblings with disabilities. College sibs mentor children (8-14 yrs. of age) who also have a sibling with a disability. Bimonthly activities include bowling, skating, holiday parties, and pizza and chat sessions. Student Contact: Michael Coogan at mcoogan@nd.edu or visit http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ~supersib/ 
Teamwork For Tomorrow Teamwork for Tomorrow, an after-school tutoring program open to all ND and SMC students, is committed to brightening the futures of children of the South Bend area through improved reading, structured recreation, and purposeful mentoring. The program meets at Saint Patrick's Center, South Bend, every Tuesday and Thursday from 4­6PM. Visit our website at http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ~teamwork/ Student contact: Margaret Lee at mlee6@nd.edu 
Trident Naval Society Develop the professionalism and camaraderie among NROTC Midshipmen and NO students necessary to assume the highest levels of citizenship and command. Volunteers provide much needed support to the South Bend Special Olympics. Student Contact: Bryan KreHer at bkreller@nd.edu 
University Young Life Volunteers plan outreach events to teach non-Christian local high school students about Christ. Student Contact: Danielle Webber at dwebber@nd.edu or visit http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ~yl/ 
Women's Resource Center Volunteers provide assistance to the women of Notre Dame with issues and problems that are particularly acute for women, such as rape and sexual assault, eating disorders, etc. Student Contact: Ashley Merusi at amerusi@nd.edu or visit http:/ /www.nd.edu/ ~wrc/ 
World Hunger Coalition Volunteers raise awareness and support for the poor and hungry in South Bend and around the world. Volunteers aim to explore pertinent issues involving hunger and become more involved in alleviating hunger worldwide. Student Contact: Kate LaPlante at klaplant@nd.edu 
THE GmDE To CoMMUNITY SERVICE 
PAGE3

THE GuiDE To CoMMUNITY SERVICE 
Community Partner Agencies 
AIDS Ministries/ AIDS Assist Volunteers provide one-on-one companionship, support, advocacy and assistance with navigating systems of care for individuals/families who are living with HIV; general office support, establish and maintain databases, assist with mailings, newsletter production; Assist in educating the community. Contact: Community-Based Learning Coordinator Debra Stanley at 234-2870 ext 1151. 
American Red Cross Community Volunteer Services plans, programs, recruits, trains and places volunteers to meet community needs through community education and emergency services. Contact: Jeannette Simon at 234-0191 ext. 21. 
Ark Angels, Inc. Volunteers tutor youth in age appropriate and manageable groups and also are encouraged to bring their own passion or interest area into the enrichment structure. Volunteers can help with special teen leadership groups on the weekends and with advanced learning opportunities. Contact: Ron King at 233-5940. 
Big Brothers Big Sisters In the one-to-one program, a volunteer is matched with a child and they build their friendship through doing activities together in the community. Our School Mentor Program requires one hour once a week after school. Contact: Deborah Burrow at 232-9958. 
Boys & Girls Clubs of St. Joseph County The volunteers work directly with the members of the Club assisting in the daily activities that take place. Contact: Dawn Woods at 232-2048. 
Broadway Christian Parish We invite volunteers to help with our Sunday Community meal, the Jubilee Christmas, the Summer Arts Program for Children, and to weed and plant flowers in the Peace garden. Contact: Anne Kumeh at 289-0333. 
Cardinal Nursing Center Volunteers are needed to visit clients on a one-to-one basis and organize evenings of bingo. Contact: Beverly Shamberg at 287-6501. 
Casie Center CASIE Center provides services for abused and neglected children. Volunteers assist staff with both routine duties and special projects that benefit the children and their families. Contact: Caron Marnocha at 282-1414. 
Catholic Charities Catholic Charities offers a variety of programs to assist those in need. Volunteers can help with the food pantry, coordinate food drives, assist refugee and immigrant families, and assist with office work. Contact: Rob Ercoline at 234-3111 or by e-mail at rercoline@ccfwsb.org 
Center for Basic Learning Skills Volunteers tutor adults working toward their GED for two hours a week. Hours: 8am-12pm M-F. Contact: Sister Marita Stoffel at 259-5427 (between 4-9 p.m.). 
Center for the Homeless 
Volunteers are able to assist with children's and adult activities, children's and adult tutoring, serving meals, chapel services, exercise programs, special events, and the front desk. They are also able to assist in the Montessori classroom, with the donation room, and with both the teen and adult leadership programs. Contact: Community-Based Learning Coordinator Felicia Moodie at 282-8700, ext. 344. 
Chapin Street Clinic (St. Joseph Health Center) Volunteers work in one of three medical clinics that provide services to low-income adults and families. Volunteers will perform clerical duties, take back patients, follow doctors; and any other service that the center is in need of medical assistance. Contact: CBLC Michelle Peters at 239-5299. · 
Charles Martin Youth Center Volunteers needed for after school programs, computer skills training for kids, conflict resolution programs, and to help clean-up grounds and inside of building. Contact: Gladys Muhammad at 280-7092. 
Chiara Home Chiara Home provides temporary out of home respite care for people with special needs. Volunteers needed to assist with personal care ofguests (i.e. feeding, entertaining, companioning, cooking meals). Volunteers also assist staff with both routine duties and special projects and activities. (Chiara Home is on a local bus line from the NO Campus.) Contact: Brenda Emmerth at 287-5435. 
Circle of Mercy Volunteers work with children in the classroom setting to enhance educational experiences. Any skills or special interests volunteers possess that would benefit children's development are greatly appreciated. Assistance in cleaning or refurbishing the facility is appreciated. Contact: Teresa Ledbetter at 287-0500. 
College Football Hall of Fame Guest Services-Orienter, Greeter, Ed Program, Team Building Facilitator-Administrative Services-Staff support­Special Events-Technical Services-Skilled work and Data Entry---(MORE) Contact: Jim Baumgartner at 235-5709. 
Corvilla, Inc. Volunteers help with resident (FUN) activities like bowling, dances, arts & crafts, picnics, hay rides, cookouts and movies. Volunteers also help with the web site, developing brochures and helping with fund-raising events like Snowball Softball, Glow In The Dark volleyball and a Howl-0-Ween Blues Bash. Contact: Diana Dolde at 574-289-9779 or e-mail at ddolde@corvilla.org. 
El Campito Day Care Center Volunteers act as role models for young children from single parent families. Volunteers also assist regular day care instructors in planning and implementing their organized program and with child care during parenting classes. 
Contact: Rosa Rickman at 232-0220. 

Family and Children's Center Join the Family Partners Program to take a child to your place of worship or become a sponsor if you can give 3-4 hours per month sharing activities with a child. Contact: Doug Brown at 259-5666, ext. 256. For intern opportunities in marketing and resource development contact: Community­Based Learning Coordinator Kregg Van Meter at 259-5666, 
ext. 232. 

Food Bank of Northern Indiana Salvage/Reclamation-Sorting, separating, and organizing food products that are canned, boxed or bottled. Pantry Reception/Stocker-Stocks the pantry shelves and assists customers with their shopping. Special Events-Letter Carrier Food Drive, Crop-Walk, National Make a Difference Day, U93 Giving Tree. Contact: Robin Fuller at 232-9986. 
Harbor Light Hospice Volunteers provide companionship, spiritual support, music therapy, bereavement services, and administrative support to the patients and their families. They also make crafts and bake favorite foods for the patients. Contact: Lynn Smith at 
232-5501. 

Healthwin Specialized Care Volunteers work one on one with our residents, reading, socializing, spending time outdoors, pushing residents to and from activities, and assisting the Activity Staff with group activities or outings into the community. Contact: Activities 
Director Lori Miller at 272-0100, ext. 204. 

Home Management Resources, Inc. Volunteer positions exist in child care, clerical/receptionist work, and computer technology. Occasional help is needed for mailings. Other positions vary from weekly positions to 4-10 once a week commitments twice during the year (on a semester basis). Contact: Elena Flynn at 233-3486. 
Hope Rescue Mission Volunteers needed for cleaning, painting, construction, preparing and serving meals, chapel service, tutoring, mentoring, counseling, clerical, teaching classes, and assisting with addiction programs. Contact: Don Bloore at 235-4150, ext. 231. 
Hospice ofSt. Joseph County Volunteers provide respite care for terminally ill patients and 
their families. Contact: Jackie Boynton at 243-3127. 
Indiana Legal Services Volunteers serve as Intake Workers to assist potential clients with the application process and summarize legal problems 
for staff attorney review. ILS is funded to provide free legal 
representation to low income persons in civil matters. 
Contact: Heather Dicks at 234-8121. 
La Casa De Amistad Inc. 

Help students with school work. Be seen as a big brother or 
sister. Provide students with self esteem and a positive look 
at the future through education and self respect to improve 
their way oflife. Contact: Olga Larimer at 233-2120. 
Life Treatment Centers, Inc. Volunteers work in all areas, supporting staff in their work with people with addictions. Contact: Ryan Butt at 233­
5433, ext. 235. 

Literacy Council of St. Joseph County, Inc. Volunteers tutor adults in both basic reading and English 
as a Second Language. Requires a 6-month commitment. 
Contact: Brenda Green at 235-6229. 
Logan Center 

Students are involved in a variety of activities with people 
with disabilities, including an classes, bowling, dances, and 
Saturday morning Recreation times. Contact: Community­
Based Learning Coordinator Marissa Runkle at 289-4831. 
Michiana Dismas House Volunteers are needed to help prepare evening meals then dine with the residents Monday-Thursday evenings. Volunteers serve as board members, mentors, GED or computer tutors, help with home repairs and special events. Other opportunities for students at Dismas House are: student residency, internships and work study positions. Contact: Maria Kaczmarek at 233-8522. 
Milton Home Volunteers visit elderly residents on a one-to-one basis and also assist with evening activities from 6:30-7:30 p.m. Contact: Maria Krewson or Lou Ann Nebelung at 233-0165. 
Northern Indiana Center for History Volunteers serve as docents in the Oliver Mansion and the Worker's House; help at special events; serve as greeters in the front lobby at the Center for special events; digitize/scan photos in the Archives; help with mailings, help in the Museum Store; internships in the Education Department/ Marketing. Contact: Joyce Chambers at 235-9664. 
OASIS The OASIS Older Adult Safe House provides a Safe House for senior citizens who have been neglected/abused. Volunteers provide for the security, safety and comfort of residents. Contact: Mary Czarnecki at 246-0144. 
Portage Manor Volunteers needed to pay regular visits to individual residents who have no family. There are also opportunities for students who do needle work. Group volunteer opportunities are also available. Contact: Toni Grisham at 272-9100. 
Potawatomi Zoo The zoo in South Bend has many opportunities in all facets of zoo operation for students to volunteer or be interns. Located just 10 minutes from campus. Contact: Jason Jacobs at 288-4639. 
REAL Services Students can be matched on a one-to-one basis with clients who need transportation or companionship. A six month commitment is requested. Volunteers are also needed to assist elderly/disabled clients of REAL Services with one time assignments for outside yard work projects. Group volunteer opportunities are also available. Contact: Diane Heimberger at 284-2644. 
Reins of Life Volunteers act as horse leaders or side walkers for people with disabilities during therapeutic horseback riding classes. There are also opportunities to help with special events and care for horses. Contact: Chris Flowers at 232-0853. 
Robinson Community Learning Center Volunteers typically work one-on-one with students after school: reading to them, having them read out loud, having them write and do listening activities. These sessions are expected to last one hour, and volunteers are asked to come twice a week, either on M-W, or on T-Th. Contact Vernell Ball-Daniel at 631-8750. 
S-0-S of Madison Center After training, Volunteer Advocates sign up for one six-hour shift per week during which they agree to be reachable by phone in the event crisis intervention services are needed. Emergency Contact: 24 hour crisis line 289-HELP (289­4357) Agency Contact: Laurel Eslinger at 283-1308. 
Salvation Anny Volunteers provide food for Thanksgiving, Christmas and Easter baskets for families in South Bend. Student volunteers can adopt a South Bend family through the Salvation Army. Contact: 233-9471. 
SBCSC Adult Education Department Volunteers work individually or in small groups with adult students (16 years of age and older) who are studying basic academic, job, and life skills (including literacy), learning English as a second language (ESL), and/or preparing for the GED Exam. Contact: Gayle Silver at 283-7563. 
South Bend Heritage Foundation Volunteers are able to work in all facets of neighborhood revitalization. Also available are internships and course­based work in community development. Contact: Gladys Muhammad at 289-1066. 
South Bend Juvenile Correctional Facility The volunteers aid the students in tutoring the individuals one-on-one in their academic deficiencies. Contact: Tom Ferrara at 232-8808, ext. 369. 
Southern Care Hospice Volunteers needed to do everything from patient sitting while a care-giver gets out for a short while for a much-needed break, to bringing a rented movie and a bag of popcorn to share with a lonely elderly person in a nursing facility. 
Continued on page 4 


THE GUIDE To CoMMUNITY SERVICE 
PAGE4 THE GuiDE To CoMMUNITY SERVICE 
populations, the agency may do a background check. 

FAQ.. 
I'm sick and can't make it to the 

Continued.from page 1 
site. What do I do? What things do I need to 
• Remember that your talk about with the volunteer commitment to an agency is verycoordinator? 

important. When you meet with the volunteer 
• Agencies really depend oncoordinator or a designated volunteers, so be there when you supervisor, make sure to discuss the say you will. 

following points: • Make sure to call if you will 
• 
Explain your interest in choosing be late or unable to attend due that particular organization, and to sickness and arrange for an explain that you would like a alternative time. hands-on experience. 

• Make sure the agency is aware of 


• 
Make sure that you will receive when you will be away on break or 


orientation, training, and unable to attend due to finals. supervision. 
If you have further questions, 

• Reach an agreement on your please stop by or call the CSC. Do 
schedule and type of service. a good job and enjoy the work you do!
• Know that if you are working with children or other vulnerable 
Community Based Learning Sites 
Below are the different sites in South Bend where the CSC has partnered with Community-Based Learning Coordinators. They work closely with NO students and faculty to provide complete learning and service experiences at their sites. They are a wonderful resource to call with your questions. 
AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist Debra Stanley Consultant P.O. Box 11582 
South Bend, IN 46634 234-2870 ext.l151 WuZu WuZu@aol.com http:/ /www.aidsministries.org/ 
Boys & Girls Club of St. Joseph County Kregg Van Meter Development Coordinator 1411 Lincolnway West Mishawaka, IN 46544 259-5666, ext. 232 kvanmeter@bgcsjc.org http:/ /www.bgcsjc.org 
Center for the Homeless Felicia Moodie Director, Volunteer Services and Community Education 813 S. Michigan South Bend, IN 46601 282-8700 ext. 344 fmoodie@cfh.net http:/ /www.cfh.net 
LOGAN Center Marissa Runkle Volunteer Coordinator 1235 N. Eddy St. P.O. Box 1049 South Bend, IN 46624 289-4831, ext. I 043 marissar@logancenter.org http:/ /www.logancenter.org 
Mendoza College of Business 
Jessica McManus Warnell 
Program Manager and Concurrent Instructor 
254 College of Business 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
631-9182 
Jessica.McManus.13@nd.edu 
http:/ /www.ethicalbusiness.nd.edu/ 
Robinson Community Learning Center Marguerite Taylor Adult Program Coordinator 921 North Eddy Street South Bend, IN 46617 631-9425 mtaylor43@juno.com http:/ /www.nd.edu./ ~ rclc 
Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center -Community 
Outreach Michelle Peters Manager, Outreach Services 234 S. Chapin Street 
South Bend, IN 46601 
239-5299 
petersmi@sjrmc.com 
http:/ /www.sjmed.com 
_Agencies ... 
Continued .from page 3 

They can work in the office filing, packets, shredding. Call 259-0895. 
Southgate Dream Center Volunteers work with at-risk youth on the south side ofSouth Bend serving as mentors, tutors, and ambassadors oflove. An ESL program also offers opportunities to work with the adult, Latino population in South Bend. Contact: Efrain Figueroa at 231-6008. 
St. Hedwig's Educational 

Outreach Center Tutoring children ages 6-14 and preparing and supervising during 
snack and meal, and yard work. Contact: Christopher Holvoet at 287-8935. 
St. Margaret's House Volunteers needed for cook and kitchen help, receptionist, tutoring, assist with donations, assist with food pantry, assist with art program, interact with children, interact with women, assist with clothes closet, miscellaneous jobs as needed. Contact: Kathy Schneider or Patricia Marvel at 234-7795. 
St. Vincent DePaul Volunteers work in the thrift store to prepare used goods for sale and help with special projects at Christmas time. Anyone organizing a food or clothing drive can work through this grassroots organization. Contact: Joan Ash at 234-6211. 
There are Children Here (TACH) TACH has a 15 acre facility and hosts an after-school program M-F for about 20 children (ages 4-11) per day. Volunteers are needed to work with the children and to coordinate special projects. Contact Jim Langford at 299-8767. 
Twenty-First Century Scholars Volunteers assist with enrollment, mentoring, campus visits, service learning projects, clerical assistance, parental support and chaperoning activities. We can build a volunteer position to meet your schedule and interests. Contact: Marti Nelson at 1-888-603-5981, ext. 235. 
United Religious Community Volunteers needed to work on special projects, with the Victim Offender Reconciliation Program and with the Advocacy Centers. Computer skills, journalism and editorial skills also needed. Contact: Carol Mayernick at 282­2397. 
West Side Neighborhood Partnership Center Volunteers work directly with youth tutoring, reading programs, sports and recreation, Conversational Spanish interactive/ play learning programs, and with administrative support. Contact: Juanetta Hill at 235-5800. 
Women's Care Center Volunteers help welcome pregnant women and couples by helping them gather the resources that they need. Volunteers also needed for counseling and child-care assistance for clients. Contact: 273-8986. 
Youth Services Bureau The Youth Service Bureau has several day and evening service opportunities including supervision and recreation for teens living at the runaway shelter, providing superVision for small children during monthly educational meetings for their parents, and staffing the newly created helpline. Hours ofservice are geared to student needs. Contact the Youth Links Director at 235-9231 for information or to volunteer. 
YWCA of St. Joseph County Volunteers serve as children's activity aides, clerical assistants, mentors, court monitors, as well as cover crisis lines, sort donations, assist in the kitchen, provide transportation, create welcome bags, plan parties for clients and help with food drives. Contact: Maggie Shoe at 233-9491. 

Social Concerns Commissioners  
Alumni Badin Breen-Phillips Cavanaugh Farley Howard Keenan Keough Knott Lewis Lyons McGlinn Morrissey O'Neill Pasquerilla East Pasquerilla West Siegfried Stanford Walsh Welsh Family Zahm Pangborn  Joe Campbell Adam Lacock Mike Zintsmaster Kim Del Guercio Laura McAllister Justine Jordon Liz Callahan Mary Durbin Danielle Nunez Paige Hamilton Meghan McCarthy Renee Alessi Melissa Miara Laura Navarre Patrick Corrigan Christopher DeStephano Steve Canham Sarah Floyd Amy Kranz Christine McGlinchy Teresa Hagan Erin Barker Erica Nason Stephanie Van~erVorste Steve Klein Rob LoCurto Lance Chapman Andy Schwei Jenny Tung Mary Elizabeth Steffan Sara Urben Tim Sullivan Sean Fox Eamon Maloney Andrew Winslow Katherine Petelle Rachel Thelen Bridget Baudinet Erin Meyers Christian Kondratowicz Dan Nickele Stacey Vanderhurst  Joseph.D.Campbell.93@nd.edu alacock@nd.edu Michaei.P.Zintsmaster.2@nd.edu kdelguer@nd.edu lmcallis@nd.edu Justine.E.Jordan.53@nd.edu ecallah 1 @nd.edu Mary.E.Durbin.5@nd.edu Danielle.R.Nunez.1 O@nd.edu Paige.N.Hamilton.64@nd.edu Meghan.E.McCarthy.l31 @nd.edu ralessi@nd.edu Melissa.A.Miara.l @nd.edu Laura.E.Navarre.l O@nd.edu Patrick.M.Corrigan.16@nd.edu Christopher. C.DeStephano.l @nd.edu Stephen.M.Canham.l @nd.edu Sarah.K.Floyd.11 @nd.edu Amy.P.Kranz. 7@nd.edu Christine.M.McGiinchy.1 @nd.edu thagan@nd.edu Erin.E.Barker.l5@nd.edu Erica.E.Nason.2@nd.edu Stephanie.L.VanderVorste.1 @nd.edu Stephen.G.Klein.45@nd.edu Robert.F.LoCurto.l @nd.edu Lance. W.Chapman.28@nd.edu aschwei@nd.edu jtungl@nd.edu MaryElizabeth.Steffan.3@nd.edu Sara.J. Urben.2@nd.edu Timothy.A.Sullivan.214@nd.edu Sean.B.Fox.55@nd.edu Eamon.P.Maloney.43@nd.edu Andrew.E.Winslow.4@nd.edu Katherine.A.Petelle.2@nd.edu Rachei.M. Thelen. 7@nd.edu Bridget.M.Baudinet.l @nd.edu Erin. K.Meyers.24@nd.edu Christian.D .Kondratowicz.l @nd.edu Daniel.] .Nickele.3@nd.edu vanderhurst.1 @nd.edu  

THE GuiDE To CoMMUNITY SERVICE 


