


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Clinical psychologist discusses compassion in medicine 
Vachon, who trains family Without [it] you won't last long people can tell you're faking it," 
By ANDREW THAGARD practice residency physicians at [in health care]." he said. "People get better 
Senior StaiTWrirer St. Joseph Regional Medical Often, Vachon said, health [faster] when you care about 
Center and educates medical care professionals either care them." 
In a presentation that includ­students through Indiana too much or too little -both of Often, however, health care ed "Far Side" comics, passages University School of Medicine's which can be detrimental to the providers try to disengage from from scripture and storytelling Department of Family caregiver and the patient. their work, in effect temporari­to the beat of a drum, psycholo­Medicine, spoke of the impor­By becoming over involved, ly shutting off their feelings gist Dominic Vachon lectured tance of remaining passionately Vachon explained, a person during the day and turning on compassion in medicine. concerned for a patient's well­compromises the autonomy of them back on at home. The Tuesday presentation, the being without becoming emo­the individual he is trying to "It doesn't work that well," third in the 1Oth annual "Mini­tionally drained in the process. help and suffers a "burn out." Vachon said. "When you turn Medical School Lecture Series," "When you really care about At the same time, caring too lit­them back on, you end up pro­was titled: "Transcending people it's not an easy thing," tle undermines the healing cessing all you saw that day." Suffering: Spirituality and Vacho.n said. "[But] caring is process. The key, Vachon said, is to Maintaining Compassion in the one of the most powerful forces "When you don't care about Encounter with Human Pain." you can have as an ally. [a person] on a deeper level see MEDICAUpage 8 

VOLUME 38: ISSUE 122 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 2004 


Maintaining identity 
Religious outside Congregation of Holy Cross find niche within ND community 

l!'ditor's note: This is the Ihird in a four-part 1/oly Week series focusing on the reli­gious of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and 1/oly Cross. 
By JOE TROMBELLO Assimnt News Editor 
They live in small communi­tins, in residence halls or alone. They work as teachers, scholars. rectors and in a wide variety of other ministries. They are the 
Dominicans, hall rectors, 12
Religious

./ C S II i t S , are members

·\ on Campus
Franciscans of Iloly Cross. and other while non Holy
A Holy Week Series

religious Cross rectors 
orders on campus separate from the dominant community of the Congregation of Iloly Cross. 
The members of other reli­gious orders said they don't feel uncomfortable or have difficulty maintaining a sense of community with such a large body of religious on campus from an order differ­ent than their own. Many members said they actually relish the opportunity to serve at a place where their order is 


Cost of electronic journals rises dralllatically 
By LAURA VILIM News Writer 
$250,000 over 1,500 Cancelled 
Due to the inflation of rising 

budget spent 
costs of electronic journals, the University Libraries mate­rials funding has seen a decrease in purchasing power over the past three years, forcing the library staff to cancel journal subscriptions in an effort to balance budget costs. 
The Libraries have already made several major cancella­tions of journals over the past two years. Six hundred and nineteen titles were eliminat­ed in the spring of 2002 and several hundred more were 

include one Carmelite, two Franciscans, three Dominicans and two members of the Immaculate Heart of Mary. 
Despite their relative minor­ity status. members of other orders said they have flour­ished on campus. Their indi­vidual stories help to form a more composite image of the religious life diversity existing at Notre Dame. MICHELLE OTIOffhe Observer 
Lyons rector Sister Susan Dunn, O.P., joins students In prayer see RELIGIOUS/page 6 during the campus-wide Stations of the Cross Tuesday evening. 
not dominant, and all said that the I Ioly Cross order has made them feel accepted and wel­come. 
According to the Office of Institutional Research's 2003 Fact Book, 16 full-time instructional faculty in 2002 were members of the Holy Cross order. Only three full­time instructional faculty were noted as "other Catholic cler­gy," with one faculty member noted as "non-Catholic cler­
gy." Among removed from the database in the spring of 2003 for a total of over 1,500 cancelled sub­scriptions. 
Despite these cuts, the Libraries are still paying approximately $250,000 more for journal subscrip­tions than their budget allows. Hoping to manage this budget deficit, the University has allocated a one-time fund to cover these costs and is currently seeking ways that additional funds can be set aside for the Libraries in the 2004-05 academic year. This funding may provide financial 
see E-JOURNALS/page 8 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Students consider registration tiresom.e 
By LISA GALLAGHER 
News Wrirer 
As students continue register­ing for classes at Saint Mary's, many wonder why the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's proce­dures are different -and why many juniors and seniors at the College arc left with no choice but to camp out overnight in order to sign up for classes required to graduate. 
Saint Mary's maintains advanced registration in person for those stude.nl'> who need spe­cific classes to complete their majors. Saint Mary's registrar Lorraine Kitchner said that under the College's current system, the only way for upperclassmen to ensure that underclassmen do not register for advanced classes in their places is to wait it out. 
Kitchner pointed out that stu­dents can register for their gener­al education and elective classes using PRISM, the online system at Saint Mary's. English department chair Max Westler explained the process of registering further. 
"Seniors should have already seen their advisors," Westler said. "All others should be at their spe­cific registration times, lready to sign up for courses]." 
Westler said that students usu­ally begin waiting in line about a half an hour before registration actually begins. Once the line starts moving, all English majors should be finished with the regis­tration process within another 30 minutes. 
Some department chairs, on the other hand, allow studenl'> to reg­ister for their classes required for their major using the Banner sys­tem. Education department chair Dale Banks was surprised to hear not all majors had switched to using online registration. 
"(We've been using) Banner since it's been around," Banks 
see REGISTRATION/page 4 

Wednesday, April 7, 2004
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Luck of the draw 
Room selection is inherently flawed. A person can easily'be screwed over by the mere random­ness of which number in the lottery the Reslife computer assigns her. 
It's funny, or maybe it's not, that I seem to stress over and focus so much of my energy on where luck will place me in what seems to be one of the most important aspects of college -where your room is located and what the layout of your room is. 
There are a number of factors that make a room better than oth­ers. 
Close to the bathroom. At least for us girls, the closer, the better. And if you're lucky enough to have your own bathroom, then you've hit it big. You ought to rejoice. 
Stairs/elevator. A quick exit is nice so that when you have to move in or out, carry groceries, large books or anything else that is heavy, you can do it-with ease. 
Square footage. Yes, the bigger, the better. Having a large room definitely helps with having friends come over to hang, particularly when deciding what furniture to put in the room. With singles, this can cause problems, but usually a resolution can be made. 
Big closet. If you're anything like me, these tiny dorm room closets suck. I need a space where I can hide my clothes quickly when peo­ple come over for a surprise visit. Besides, I have a lot of clothes and other junk that needs a spot to go. 
Sink. A sink is a virtual necessi­ty. I don't know about you, but I don't like the idea of walking dowri the hiLll to brush my teeth or other such things. Access to water is nice and having a spot to store toi­letries always helps to keep things a little neater. 
Location to friends. Okay, so maybe I'm being lazy here. But it is nice to be near your friends. If you're in a bad mood, you can go vent. If you're hungry, you can run to the Dining Hall, or order-in if you're really hungry. 
Good view. So maybe this should be on a list of bonuses, but if you really think about it, having a good view can give relief when you're feeling down. I like to stare out the window. Well, I also like to spy, so a high traffic location can be more fun. 
But whatever cardboard box or spacious parlor you end up in, I know you'll make the best of it. I was lucky this year and got almost everything I wanted in a room. Now it's time for the fun part­choosing the floor plan. So good luck on your room picks and I hope you end up as happy as I am. 
The views"' expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabuA54 7@saintmarys. edu. 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: How OFTEN DO YOU FLY OUT OF SOUTH BEND REGIONAL AIRPORT? 

Adrienne Allen  Carole Kennelly  Claudio Guerra  John Corker  Justin Giles  
Senior  Junior  Freshman  Freshman  Freshman  
Lyons  Walsh  Siegfried  Zahm  St. Edward's  
"Never.''  "Whenever I  "Who came up  "Never.  "About once a  
need to get out  with this stupid  Go Irish ...  year.  
ofhere."  question?"  House!"  





" 

Ohio priest gets probation for growing pot 
AKRON, Ohio -A Roman Catholic priest received two years of probation Tuesday for growing marijuana in his church residence. The Rev. Richard Arko. 40, pleaded guilty to two counts of illegal cultivation of mar­ijuana related to 35 plants in the rectory of Prince of Peace Roman Catholic Church. 
Summit County Common Pleas Judge Patricia Cosgrove also ordered Arko to undergo random drug testing and perform 100 hours of community service. 
Cosgrove asked Arko why Riverdale home Friday afternoon, and is suspected of stealing a power drill and cookies. 

The man's undoing came when he answered the phone when it rang. 
The caller, the homeown­er's daughter, immediately hung up and called her mother to tell her someone was in the house. 
Then her mother called, and the man not only answered again but identi­fied himself as the man she kicked out of the house the previous night. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
he jeopardized his career by growing marijuana. Arko said he strongly believes in the use of mari­juana for medicinal purpos­es and has seen it benefit people with illnesses. He said he looked forward to the day when it would not be illegal. 
Alleged burglar answers victim's phone 
RIVERDALE, Utah -An alleged cookie-snatching burglar just couldn't help answering the phone at the victim's home -twice. 
Police Detective Kevin Fuller said a 23-year-old Roy man broke into a 

IN BRIEF 

Class registration for Fall 2004 will begin for rising juniors this morning and continue through Thursday on Irish Link. 
"A Nanovic Film: Lilya 4­ever (Sweden/Denmark 2002)," written and directed by Lukas Moodysson, will be shown all day in Carey Auditorium. The event is sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies: Women in European Film Loss, Identity, Belonging. 
"Building Anti-Racist Alliances for Human Rights: Women of Color Organizing on Global Terrain in the 
U.S. South," will be present­ed by Faye Harrison, depart­ment of anthropology, University of Tennessee, Knoxville today from 4:30 to 
5:45 p.m. in Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The talk is part of the Lecture Series on Race in the Americas. 
Come to the Coleman­Morse Lounge from 10 to 11 
p.m. tonight for Interfaith Christian Night Prayer. 
Join coach Muffet McGraw and the athletic department in participating with "Eric's Promise," a charity event associated with the St. Vincent de Paul Society. Donate any lightly used ath­letic wear at the truck avail­able outside the JACC, gate 10, today from 7:30a.m. to 1 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 



44 44 
25 31 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 





48 54 48 
42 33 26 


Wednesday, April 7, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
SMC draw-s, loses transfer students 
By KELLY MEEHAN NewsWrirer 
A<; Saint Mary's draws transfer students from other colleges and universities, it also has to bal­ance losing some of its own stu­dnnl<; who decide to transfer, typ­ieally in either their freshman or sophomore year. 
The average freshman to soph­omore year retention rate at Saint Mary's is between 83 and 85 percent. Due to privacy rights. it rmnains confidential to where studt~nts transfer. however around 50 IH~rcent daim to have transfern~d to another private college. 
Approximatl~ly 22 percent of studenl<; transferring out of Saint Mary's in the past reported to the Collngt~ their decision to enroll at Notre Dame -many citing the convenience of its close proximi­ty. 
According to Michael Gantt, coordinator of transfer admis­sions at Notre Dame, of the 41 Saint Mary's students who applied to transfer for the 2003 fall smnester, 24 were admitted and 22 Pnrolled. 
Gantt said there has been a slight increase over past years in the number of Saint Mary's stu­dents that apply, a·re accepted and twtmtually transfer to Notre Dame. The number of those aewpted liJr the fall 2004 semes­ter has not yet been determined due to a pending April 15 appli­cation deadline. The number of aeeepted Saint Mary's students will likely remain unknown until .June. Gantt said. lie also noted the probability of the University declining business or architec­ture transfer students because of overcrowding in those depart­ments. 
Current Notre Dame sopho­more Sarah Nelson made the decision to transfer to the University before beginning her freshman year. at Saint Mary's. 
"I was interested in their archi­tecture program," Nelson said. "I was able to take the same archi­tecture and science classes with the Notre Dame freshmen, so I really only had three classes at Saint Mary's both semesters. and I wasn't going to be able to con­tinue the classes without trans­ferring." 
Although N11lson said she made close friends during her time at Saint Mary's, she does not regret her decision. The biggest con­venience is not worrying about having to travel back and forth between campuses, she said. 
Despite losing some students who decide to transfer out of the College, Saint Mary's draws approximately 45 to 50 incoming transfer students each year. The majority of those come through the Holy Cross-Saint Mary's link­age program, in which Holy Cross students take courses at the College before officially transferring, said Mary Lelik, director of institutional research. 
Sophomore Nichole McCloud transferred to Saint Mary's at the beginning of this semester from Fordham University in New York. 
"New York is great to visit, though quite di!Terent to live in. Thankfully I love it here even more than I thought I would," McCloud said. "It has definitely been a positive and enriching experience, and I know it will continue to be -possibly even more so -over the next two years. 
"I just wish I'd learned about Saint Mary's before I graduated [high school! ... but just the same, I love it here and definitely made the right choice." 
According to Lelik, her office hopes to institute a survey for withdrawing students to indicate their reasQns for leaving. The College can then define its weak­nesses and make changes to increase future retention rates, she said. 
"It is generally between the freshman and sophomore year when we see the greatest amounts of students leave," she said. "However, our strong grad­uation rate of 73 to 74 percent helps to keep us ranked No. 1 in our division on the 'U.S. News and World Report's' Best Colleges." 
Freshman Lisa Teague has already decided to transfer to the University of Cincinnati next fall. Unlike Saint Mary's or Notre Dame, University of Cincinnati alTers a program of dietetics that Teague hopes to choose as a major. 
While students, like Teague, may transfer for academic rea­sons, many ultimately do so to be content in their college environ­ment. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
MEXICO 



Cleanup efforts begin after deadly flooding 
Associated Press 

PIEDRAS NEGRAS -Skies once filled with threatening clouds cleared and the cleanup of the destruction caused by flooding that killed 34 people got underway in this town on the U.S. border. 
But even as hundreds began picking up the pieces of their damaged homes and water­logged belongings. many of their neigh­bors were 
"We made our living
burying loved Tuesday, after ones. from that store but touring the Bulldozers washed-out area.
all that is left is the 
rumbled When 36-year­
sign."
through the old Manuel streets and Gallegos returned soldiers and Manuel Gallegos to his home city employ­Tuesday, he
flood victim 
neighborhood hit hardest by the floods, said Marcela Aguirre, a spokeswoman for Piedras Negras, a town of 200,000 some 150 miles southwest of San Antonio, Texas. 
The federal government promised an initial allocation of more than $3 million to rebuild damaged homes and replace lost belongings, Social Development Department .Josclina Vazquez announced 

ees tossed debris into garbage trucks, doing their best to pick through the rub­ble of toppled cars, demol­ished buildings and smashed furniture. 
Torrential rain beginning Sunday night caused the Escondido River to overflow, triggering flash flooding that wiped out at least 100 homes and left thousands living in · makeshift shelters. 
Electricity had been restored to a portion of Villa de Fuente, the working class found the roof 
had been blown o!T and all that was left was a muddy table and chairs that had been scattered around. 
Gallegos had shared the dwelling near the river's edge with his elderly parents and sister. The family's makeshift store, which had been part of the house, was swept away. 
"We made our living from that store but all that is left is the sign," Gallegos said as he pointed to a beer sign attached to a yellow post lay­ing on the ground. 


SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Volunteer Opportunities 
A male mentor is needed for a 17 -year old hoy. Contact Diana Cotton at 234-5914. 
Christian Center School is seeking tutors in high school English, Physics and Math. Tutors are needed from 9am­ll:45am any day of the week. Conracr Gena, Sue or Mr. Oarlageat299-4253 
Jumpstart is a program that hrings in 2nd -4th graders who might not have the op­portunity to visit an art mu­seum into the Snite for a tour and activity. The program is fully developed with "scripts" to be presented and trans­portation provided. Contact Jackie Welsh at 631-4435. 
Cardinal Nursing Center needs a male student to visit a mentally disabled man once a week. Contact Megan Waller at 287-6501. 
An elderly couple is looking for help with cleaning their garage on a Monday after­noon. Contact Idera Thomp­son at 234-0300. 
A companion is needed for an older woman, one or two times a month. She can come to Notre Dame. Contact Patty Malone at p.l.malone@worldner.atr.net 
Experiential Learning Council Applications Due April16 
The Experiential Learnit1g Council (ELC) is looking for a variety of officers for the upcoming school year. 
Ifyou have participated in two or more seminars (Urban Plunge, Appalachia, SSPI, Migrant Issues, Washington, Children & Poverty, ISSPI, etc.), and have an active interest in experiential learning and improving and maintaining the seminar, please consider applying. 
They are seeking a variety of dedicated people from web masters to secretaries. 
The application offers full descriptions of the positions available. 
Applications·are due April 16, 2004. 

For more information, contact: Shantha Ready (sready@nd.edu) at 4-2784 or Jennifer Gaisser-Sadler (jgaisser@nd.edu) at 4-4220. 

Remembering Rwanda Film 
In commemoration of the 10-year anniversary of the Rwanda genocide, the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies will be showing "In Rwanda we say: the family that does not speak dies." 
The film will include discussion with professors and international students from Rwanda. 
When: Wednesday, April 7 at 7:00pm 
Where: Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 

Students Needed for Senior Sendoff 
Volunteers are needed during Commencement Weekend to assist with the Service Send-Off and reception? Help will be needed from 10 am to 1 pm on Saturday, May 15 at the Center for Social Concerns. This event celebrates seniors who are committing to a year or more ofpostgraduate service. 
Contact Andrea at ashappel@nd.edu for more information. 

Rock the Vote Events 
The Notre Dame Rock the Vote campaign will be hold­ing two exciting events this April for students to get more involved in dialogue about the political issues ofour time. 
The first is a student panel on Faithful Citizenship, featuring Keri Oxley, Tom Feeney, Andrew DeBerry, Chris Broughton, Ky Bertoli and Cecilia Garza. These seniors will wrestle with the difficult questions of faith and politics. 
When: Tuesday, April 20 
Where: Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Campus Crossfire Debate 
The following night Rock the Vote will host the first ever Campus Crossfire, which will be a debate between College Democrats and College Republicans on rhe is­sues. All are invited and encouraged to attend. 
When: Wednesday, April21 at 7:00pm 
Where: Coleman-Morse Lounge 
Suttlmer Retreat with Jean Vanier 
Jean Vanier, founder ofInternational L'Arche communi­ties, will be leading a retreat July 23-25 at Mercyhurst College in NorthEast, PA (Erie, PA) for people ages 18-25. Jean is an extremely inspiring man who will focus on "Jesus ... The Revelation of God's Love." This retreat is highly recommended for all connected wirh rhe Center who would like to reflect more deeply on rhe relationship of faith and service. Most likely, this will be rhe last re­treat that Jean Vanier will give in the United States-thus, it is an opportunity ofa lifetime. Applications are avail­able from Andrea in room 120 of the Center for Social Concerns. There will be a van going from Notre Dame, for those who will be in this area in July. Jean Vanier is one of the recipients of the Laerare Medal from Notre Dame, the highest award given by the University. 



Wednesday, April 7, 2004
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
BMW 
'Certtfl&d 
/Pnl~awned 
. . ... . .
Certified mover 

'hmwui\;a;c<>!n · s,~4U·4f!MW.. 
Certified shaker Certified no more mac &cheese Certified acceleration Certified rush Certified freedom Certified bring it on Certified Pre ..Owt1ed BMW 



Registration 
continued from page 1 
said. 
Still, education majors meet with their advisors prior to accessing Banner in order to make sure they are on track with their requirements. 
The chemistry department does not have advanced registration, Kitchner said, mainly because it is not as popular of a major. 
While each department at Saint Mary's has a different process of allowing juniors and seniors to register for classes required for their majors, many agree that web registration for all classes would be beneficial. 
Westler would "like to see online registration if the College decides to boost in this direction." 
"Students would prefer [web registration]," Spaulding said. 
Notre Dame began web regis­tration through IrishLink in the fall of 2001. Notre Dame associ­ate registrar. Lora Spaulding said the main reason web registration was created was for the conven­ience of the students. 
"We had been wanting to switch to [web registration] for quite some time," Spaulding said, "but it took a long time before the system was secured." 
In the fall of 1989, Notre Dame students were encouraged to use a phone dial-up service or kiosk to sign up for their spring 1990 courses. That was followed by a one-year temporary registration system in which students used terminals in the basement of the Hesburgh Library before the switch to IrishLink. 
Contact Lisa Gallagher at lgallaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Fonner abused child leads reform catnpaign 
Associated Press 
CRYSTAL RIVER, Fla. ­Ashley Rhodes-Courter, full of poise beyond her 18 years, pauses among the cardboard boxes and piles of documents that occupy a corner of her adoptive family's spacious home on Kings Bay. 
"This is my life," the high school senior said, frowning down at the reams of paper generated during her decade in Florida's beleaguered foster care system. 
The state took her from her drug-abusing mother at age 3. Before she was plucked out of a Tampa orphanage by a cou­ple of empty-nesters six years ago, Rhodes-Courter had lived in 13 different homes, most for less than nine months. 
Some of the places were OK. In others she faced neglect and overcrowding. In one, physical and mental abuse was routine. 
"There were times I was ripped off the top bunk by my hair and thrown to the ground and kicked," she said. "We always had bruises and marks." 
Her experiences drive a des­perate desire to make a differ­ence now for kids left in the system. 
"Kids that come out of the system, particularly those who are adopted at an older age, they don't fare very well," Rhodes-Courter said. "They can't really tell about what happened. They don't really have any credibility. Their grades are poor, they act out, they end up in juvenile deten­tion centers. 
"I came out the exact oppo­site. I think I'm pretty credible. I can speak a coherent sen­tence, and I can. do these things. I think it's really pow­erful,. and I think I scare a lot of people." 
Rhodes-Courter sued the state of Florida and its Department of Children & Families caseworkers for plac­ing her in dangerous homes. The lawsuits, and another against the former foster cou­ple who abused her, were set­tled out-of-court with undis­closed payments last year, money that she'll use for col­lege. 
The articulate honor student also has become a sought-after public speaker for child advo­cate groups around the coun­try. 
RhQdes-Courter, who will graduate from Crystal River High School in May, is spend­ing much of her spare time this spring poring over docu­ments in preparation for a book she's writing with her adoptive mother, Gay Courter, a best-selling novelist. Prospective publishers staged a bidding war for the memoirs. 
Negotiations for a feature film -she calls it "an Antwone Fisher meets Erin Brockovich kind of thing" ­are in the works. 
The teen has won scores of awards, spoken to U.S. sena­tors and congressmen and met President Clinton. Recently she told her story on Monte! Williams' daytime talk show. 

Last summer she won first place among 3,000 entrants in a New York Times Magazine high school writing competi­tion. Titled "Three Little Words," her poignant essay described the doubt and emo­tiona! ambiguity she felt on adoption day in 1998. 
She described in the essay her mistreatment in the sys­tem and recounted seeing other kids adopted only to be returned to foster care because they were damaged goods. 

Get warranty protection• up to 6 years or 100,000 miles. Get flexible leasing and financing options. Get pure BMW. 
\ " 

search up-to-date, extensive inventory at bmwusa.com 
'Prot&ctioo Plan prOVldes coverage for up to 2 years or 50,000 mites ('..vhichever comas flrs.t) !rom the date of the expiration of the 4 year/50,000 mde BMW New Vohk:la Ltmit&d Warranty. See partiCipating BMW passengar car center for details. For mora k1foonation. caH 1·800-334-4BMW. or 1ris1! bmwur.a.ccm @2004 BMW of North Amelica.LLC. The BM'.V name and logo ara mgiste!lld lrademar\t.s. 
r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­



ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 7, 2004 CoMPILED FROM TI·IE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Prisoners hold TV crews hostage 
QUITO. Ecuador -In the midst of a national strike by prison guards, inmates in Quito's women's prison took two television news crews hostage Tuesday to press their demands for shorter sentences and better living conditions. 
The standoff was one of several protests by inmates around the country in the last three 
.. 
days after guards in Ecuador's 34 prisons went on strike March 22 demanding $10 million for improvements and back pay. Inmatos have been largely left on their own inside the pris­ons, receiving sporadic food shipments from tlw government and meals passed to them by police and mlatives. National Prison Director Fernando Cassis said Tuesday that the government was doing all it could to end the protests and the strike. Tho 'IV crews from channel 4 and channel 1 0 rnportnd that throe reporters and three cam­eramen from their stations who had entered in tho morning to interview the women were pre­vented from leaving. 
Former interior minister arrested 
POHT-AU-PHINCE, Haiti -Ousted President Joan-Bertrand Aristide's interior minister was arrnsted Tuesday on suspicion of orchestrating the killings of' several people presumed to be Aristide opponenl'i, oflicials said. 
The arrest of Jucelerme Privert-the highest ranking ollicial to be detained since Aristide's departure on Feb. 29 -comes as former gov­ernment leaders and members of Aristide's political party have complained that llaiti's inter­im leaders are targeting them. Privert was accusnd in the mid-February killings of several suspected Aristide opponents in St. Marc, a northern port city. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Fla. proposes licenses for aliens 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -Gov. Jeb Bush endorsed a bill to allow illegal immigrants to get driver's licenses, saying they are in the state anyway and officials should accept that fact. The bill he is backing has enough safe­guards that it would ensure terrorists are not gntting licenses, Bush said Monday. 
"We shouldn't allow them to come into the country to begin with, but once they're here, what do you do? Do you basically say that they're lepers to society? That they don't exist?" he asked. "A policy that ignores them is a policy of denial." 
The issue comes up just four months after Calif'ornia Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, ful­fillnd a major campaign promise by repealing a law that would have allowed an estimated 2 million illegal immigrant drivers there to begin applying for licenses. 


Feds mull expanded drug testing 
WA.~IIINGTON -The hair, saliva and sweat of federal workers could be tested for drug usc under a government policy proposed Tuesday that could set screening standards for millions of' private employers. The proposal will expand the methods to detect drug use among 1.6 mil­lion federal workers beyond urine samples. The rule is subject to a 90-day public comment peri­od. A final plan could be issued by year's end. 
STATE NEWS 
Monastery receives $26 million gift 
ST. MEINHAD, Ind. -1\vo women reward­ed the hospitality of Benedictine monks by bequeathing more than $26 million to a monastery in southern Indiana. 
Bernice Davey, 90, and Virginia Basso, 91, both had spoken of contributing to the monastery northeast of Evansville. But the amount of the gifts -more than $13 million from each of the women's estates -sur­prised St. Meinrad officials. The monastery is home to about 120 monks. 
IRAQ 


Twelve Marines killed in Ramadi 
Violence spreads to several Iraqi cities, U.S. Marines launch string of attacks 
Associated Press 
NAJA -Insurgents and rebellious Shiites mount­ed a string of attacks across Iraq's Shiite south and U.S. Marines launched a major assault on the turbulent Sunni city of Fallujah on Tuesday. Up to a dozen Marines, two more coali­tion soldiers and at least 66 Iraqis were reported killed. 
Troops were battling in several cities on two fronts in some of the most extensive fighting since President Bush declared major combat over on May 1. U.S. forces fought insurgents in Sunni trian­gle cities of Fallujah and Ramadi west of Baghdad, and coalition troops bat­tled Shiite militiamen of radical cleric Muqtada al­Sadr in the south. 
Reports from Hamadi, near Fallujah, said dozens of Iraqis attacked a Marine position near the governor's palace, a sen­ior defense official said from Washington. "A sig­nificant number" of Marines were killed, and initial reports indicate it may be up to a dozen, said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Heavy casualties were inflicted on the insurgents as well, officials said. It promised after the brutal were wounded. ago. was not immediately killings and mutilations of U.S. warplanes firing "We are several blocks known who the attackers four American civilians rockets destroyed four deep in the city. of were, nor whether the there last week. Hospital houses in Fallujah after Fallujah," Marine Maj. attack was related to officials said eight Iraqis nightfall Tuesday, wit­Briandon McGolwan said. fighting under way in died Tuesday and 20 were nesses said. A doctor said He said several helicop­nearby Fallujah. wounded, including 26 Iraqis, including ters were hit by small 
Depending on the num­women and children. women and children, arms fire, but none were ber of Hamadi deaths, Marines waged a fierce were killed and 30 downed. He said Marines Tuesday's casualties could battle for hours Tuesday wounded in the strike. had detained 14 people have brought the the with gunmen holed up in The deaths brought to 34 since Monday. three-day total as high as a residential neighbor­the number of Iraqis U.S. Marines encircled about 30 Americans and hood of Fallujah. The mil­killed in Fallujah on Fallujah early Monday, more than 130 Iraqis itary used a deadly AC-Tuesday. and on Tuesday, they pen­killed in the fighting. 130 gunship to lay down a The dusty, Euphrates etrated several central 
On the Fallujah front, barrage of fire against River city 35 miles west of neighborhoods for the Marines drove into the guerrillas, and command­Baghdad is a stronghold first time. Mortar and center of the Sunni city in ers said Marines were of the anti-U.S. insur­rocket-propelled grenade heavy fighting before holding an area several gency that sprang up blasts were heard, and pulling back before night­blocks deep inside the shortly after Saddam one witness said a fall. The assault had been city. At least two Marines Hussein's ouster a year Humvee was ablaze. 



Derailed train kills one, injures 80 
of injured could be as high as 90. being rushed to the scene, she said. 

Associated Press 
At least one Jackson hospital Red Cross staffers were on hand to 
reportedly received a number of assist passengers. 

YAZOO CITY, Miss. -An Amtrak the injured but officials declined to Yazoo County sheriff's dispatcher train derailed in rural central release details. Mary Whisenton said at least five Mississippi late Tuesday, killing at Dan Stessel, a spokesman for ambulances had also been sent to 
least one person on board and Amtrak, said nine of the train's the scene. injuring dozens. cars left the tracks about 25 miles Stessel said he had no informa­
"We have one confirmed dead north of Jackson and toppled onto tion on what caused the accident. and we've got possibly 80 injured," their sides. He said the train's The train was traveling from New said Amy Carruth, a spokeswoman manifest showed 72 passengers Orleans to Chicago when it left the for the Mississippi Emergency and 12 crew members. tracks at about 7 p.m. near the Management Agency in Jackson. Carruth said her agency "was Yazoo-Madison county line, author­"We understand some of the sending every resource we can get ities said. injured are possibly critical." our hands on out there.... At last Stessel said the train made sever­
Meanwhile, Gov. Haley Barbour report we've still got people al stops after leaving New Orleans declared a state of emergency and trapped." about 1:55 p.m., including Jackson. said in a statement that rescuers Besides search teams, portable He said the train derailed before its on the scene believed the number lights and other equipment were scheduled stop in Yazoo City. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 7, 2004 
Religious 
continued from page 1 
NO's Dominican community 
Sister Mary Catherine Hilkert, professor of theology, said that Dominicans cannot easily be clas­sified into a particular mold. 
"[The expression.] 'when you've met one Dominican you've met them all' [isn't true]." she said. "[It's] not like a cookie-cutter mold." 
Hilkert said· she was drawn to the order by the people she's met, including the Dominican sisters who taught her in high school. 
"Later, in my order, [I was attracted to] the love of the word of God," she said. 
Hilkert said the Dominican emphasis on scholarship, study and preaching resonated with her own interests. She has written a book on one of her favorite Dominicans, Saint Catherine of Sienna, and teaches undergradu­ate courses titled "Jesus and Salvation" and "Feminist and Multicultural Theologies." 
Hilkert said she does not feel threatened by the majority pres­ence of Holy Cross religious and believes the divergence of orders is positive. 
"It's a gift to Notre Dame -the more diversity and the more orders," she said. "I personally feel very welcome ... I don't even think of myself as non-Holy Cross." 
Hilkert said that she doesn't see any competition among religious orders, and she believes each order brings its own unique gifts to campus. At the same time, however, she said that she would like to see more opportunities provided to women within the Church and said a link to Notre Dame religious life on the University web site could be more descriptive and inclusive of other orders. 
"There are many ways in which women's gifts to the Church need to be more recognized. That's not just an issue here," she said. "It will be a much fuller Church when we treasure the gifts of everyone." 
Hilkert said she feels a "sense of shared family spirit" with Dominicans no matter where she fmds them and noted that she and the seven other Dominicans on campus meet often to re-connect. 
"We're trying to find creative ways to make time and get together," she said. 
Hilkert said she considers 

Dominican sisters at Saint Mary's to be "an extended community" and gathers each Sunday with a group of Dominicans, as well as other religious and lay people, to attend Mass at Saint Mary's and converse over coffee. 
Religious In the residence halls 
In addition to scholarship and teaching, religious at Notre Dame also participate in campus life by serving as rectors in residence halls. Many of these rectors of other religious orders said they fulfill their ministry by interacting with students in a residential set­ting. 
"We try to proclaim God's word through our presence in the hall, in the way we talk to residents," said Sister Susan Dunn, a Dominican and rector of Lyons Hall. "It's a wonderful privilege to be in the hall, to be a pastoral presence in a day-to-day sense, and I think my colleagues feel the same." 
Dunn said she and other rectors gather every Tuesday night and take turns hosting each other in their respective halls. Since the rectors comprise religious of a variety of orders, as well as lay people, the gatherings provide an opportunity for conversation with fellow Dominicans as well as members of other orders. 
"You get the sense that there are communities that are like cir­cles that interact at certain times," she said. 
Dunn said that in addition to the rector meetings, she and other Dominicans gather together on feast days for "prayer and com­munity." Dunn also participates in meetings with women religious who meet to "talk about leader­ship ... [and other issues] that would be of similar interests in all congregations." 
Dunn said she feels very com­fortable with her Holy Cross col­leagues. 
"I feel that I have been wel­comed and affirmed," she said. "I think we all consider it a gift to minister with Holy Cross." 
Open daily 10am to 8pm 
1813 South Bend Ave. 
L.1eated in the ~arne place as Between the Buns! 
574.993.0310 574.234.8730 






TWO MEN 
ANDA 
TRUCK® 
"Movers Who Care®" 
• Residential  • local & long Distance  
• Commercial  • Boxes & Packing Supplies  
• Packing Service  • loading &Unloading of  
• Insured &Bonded  Rental Trucks Available  

{57'1) 675-9700 
www.twomenandatruck.com 

Visit Our Box Store! 

11590 McKinley, SuiteD • Osceola, IN 46561 
Jesuits on campus 
As one of three Jesuits on cam­pus, not including graduate stu­dents, Father Brian Daley, a pro­fessor of theology, said he has never felt uncomfortable being surrounded by a majority of Holy Cross members. In contrast, he said he feels that his minority sta­tus helps him in his ministry. 
"It seems to give me a great opportunity to do characteristical­ly Jesuit ministry in a way that wouldn't be as easy as in an insti­tution where there are a lot of Jesuits," he said. "As somebody whose [order] is ... not in the power structure, I feel I can be helpful to people pastorally in a way that might be more difficult [for a Holy Cross member]." .. Fellow Jesuit Father Joseph Weiss, administrative director of the Institute for Church Life, agreed. 
"It's good for Jesuits to have the experience of being a minority rater than a majority," he said. 
Despite their agreement on this issue, both Weiss and Daley have different views with respect to a sense of Jesuit community. While Daley lives in a house with a fel­low Jesuit, Weiss chooses to live alone. 
"We maintain our identity through companionship, not nec­essarily through living in the 
• 
same place," Weiss said. "It's real­ly the spiritual bonds that hold Jesuits together, not so much a place or a particular work." 
Daley said that living in a com­munity with other Jesuits is essential for maintaining his sense of community. It also improves his ability to minister. 
"I do feel that the practice side is good but the companionship ... is essential to finding God," he said. "If you live with other people ... it makes demands on you. It calls you to live a religious life more seriously." 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 

r·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·, 
PPE THE MINOR IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 

The PPE minor invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, politicalJheory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law, public policy, philosophy, political science, and economics. 
If you are looking for 

(1) 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, without all the requirements of a second major, and 

(2) 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, 


then PPE wants you! 
FOR MORE INFORMATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy Department, doconnor@nd.edu; or Professor John Roos, Political Science Department, Roos.l @nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send a request to Professor Roos or Professor O'Connor. The application deadline is 3:00PM on Wednesday, April7. Late applications will be accepted only if openings are still available. 
APPLICATION DEADLINE APRIL 7, 3:00PM. 
L--·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·~ 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, April 7, 2004 

MARKET 
RECAP 


Dow 10 570.81 +12.44

Jones ,'A ' 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume 1,216 140 • 1,398,110,464 
AMEX 1,265.39 +2.52 
NASDAQ 2,059.90 -19.22 
NYSE. 6,694.14 -20.95 
s&PSOO 1,148.16 -2.41 
NIKKEI(Tokyo) 12,013.46 -66.24 
FTSE. IOO(London) 4,472.80 -7.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADIO (SIRI) +3.73 +0.14 3.89 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.98 -0.28 28.27 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -2.83 -0.14 4.80 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.58 -0.15 I 25.80 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -0.64 -0.16 24.65 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.54 -0.27 50.16 10-YEAR NOTE -I' 16 -0.49 41.71 5-YEARNOTE -1.77 -0.57 31.57 3-MONTH BILL +0.66 +0.06 9.18 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.59 34.97 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) +3.50 419.80 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.15 106.95 
Exchan Rates 
YEN 106 EURO 0.8263 POUND 0.5434 

IN BRIEF 
Lucent fires execs for bribery 
NEWARK, N.J. -Telecommunications gear maker Lucent Technologies announced Tuesday it is firing four executives at its unit in China after finding possible violations of U.S. bribery laws. 
Lucent said its investigation in China was among two dozen done at its foreign operations, prompted by bribery allegations involving its Saudi Arabian unit, which the company dis­closed in August. 
The company said it "found incidents and internal control deficiencies" in its operations in China that potentially involve Foreign Corrupt Practices Act violations. The nature and specifics of the potential violations were not dis­closed. The Murray Hill-based company said it gave the findings to the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice. 
Eddie Bauer up for sale by Spiegel 
CIIICAGO -The Spiegel Group is looking for a buyer for its Eddie Bauer clothing and home furnishing business after German billionaire Michael Otto was unable to reach a deal to retain control of the company. 
The Spiegel Group filed for Chapter 11 pro­tection in March 2003. 
With 440 stores, catalogs and online sales, the Eddie Bauer division accounted for $1.3 billion of Spiegel's $1.77 billion net sales in 2003. 
News Corp., FOX to move to U.S. 
NEW YOHK -Nearly 20 years after ltupert Murdoch gave up his Australian citi­zenship to become an American, the media conglomerate he controls is following suit. 
By the end of the year, News Corp. ­owner of the Fox network, Fox News Channel and the 20th Century Fox movie studio -will move its home base from Australia to the United States in a bid to appeal to a wider base of investors. Its pri­mary stock listing will also move to the New York Stock Exchange from the Australian exchange. 
THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 
Microsoft will appeal EU fine 
Company calls $615M antitrust fine unprecedented, attack on U.S. industry 
Associated Press 
BHUSSELS, Belgium ­In a preview of its prom­ised appeal, Microsoft Corp. accused the European Union on Tuesday of overreaching by including its U.S. busi­ness in calculating a record line of about $615 million for alleged antitrust abuses. 
With the EU decision due Wednesday, trans-Atlantic tensions also began to siz­zle as they did the last time the EU took on U.S. corpo­rate giants in the ill-fated GE-I Ioncywell merger. 
"This ruling is yet anoth­er example of the EU assaulting a successful American industry and policies that support our economic growth," said 
U.S. Sen. Patty Murray, a Democrat from Microsoft's home state of Washington. 
The software giant's chief European lawyer, I loracio Gutierrez, argued that the EU's line appeared to have been doubled from what it should have been under the European Commission's guidelines to account for the company's global operations. 
Microsoft does about 30 percent of its business in Europe. 

"We believe it's unprece­dented and inappropriate for the Commission to Commission spokes­considering whether that changes Monti is seeking impose a fine on a compa­woman Amelia Torres landmark deal was ade­in how Microsoft sells ny's U.S. operations when declined to comment, say­quate to restore competi­Windows, which runs most those operations are ing Monti would address tion. personal computers world­already regulated by the questions Wednesday at a U.S. firms that do signifi­wide. 
U.S. government," news conference after the cant business in Europe The EU is expected to Gutierrez said. "The con­Commission adopts the also are subject to EU law, order Microsoft to release duct at issue has been per­ruling. which authorizes the more of the underlying mitted by both the U.S. Sources familiar with the Commission to levy fines Windows code to rivals in Department of Justice and five-year-old case say the for antitrust violations of the server market, and a U.S. court." EU ruling finds Microsoft up to 10 percent of a com­deliver a version of 
The company also abused its Windows pany's global revenue. Windows without its argued it could not have monopoly, harming con­Representatives from the Windows Media Player known its behavior would sumers and competitors in 15 EU governments software in Europe to help infringe EU law and thus it the markets for digital approved the fine Monday. competing products reach should not be fined at all. media and server soft­A source familiar with the desktops. 
EU Competition ware. case, but speaking on con­Antitrust lawyers call Commissioner Mario Monti Microsoft was found dition of anonymity, said Microsoft's latest argu­"has said clearly the rea­guilty of similar monopolis­Tuesday it was around ments unsurprising. son he wants a decision is tic behavior in the U.S. $615 million. "It's unprecedented but to get a precedent, so antitrust case but settled in Given Microsoft's cash not necessarily wrong," clearly there isn't one cur­late 2001 with the Bush reserves in excess of $50 said Martin Baker, chief rently," said Microsoft administration. A U.S. billion, experts say the fine antitrust partner at Taylor spokesman Tom Brookes. appeals court is currently is less significant than the Wessing in London. 

Lilly gifts $6M to former patent critic 
Associated Press Indianapolis-based lilly and the non­At the time, the foundation's presi­
INDIANAPOLIS -A medical profit foundation in research on blood dent, Dr. J. Donald Capra, was quoted research foundation that settled a and cardiovascular diseases. as saying, "If Eli Lilly wins. that will $100 million drug patent lawsuit But research by two foundation doc­send a signal to scientists not to trust against Eli Lilly and Co. a year ago tors into a blood poisoning treatment big pharmacy companies." found itself on the receiving end of a led the foundation more than two In a Tuesday news release announc­$6 million gift from the drug maker years ago to sue Lilly in a complaint ing the $6 million gift, Capra credited Tuesday, with past harsh words that sought $100 million in damages. Lilly with making "an extraordinary replaced by mutual praise. The patent-infringement lawsuit con­investment" and said the foundation 
The money to create two endowed tended the doctors' work helped lead was "deeply grateful to Lilly for its faculty chairs in biomedical research to the development of Xigris, a drug generous support of OMHF's efforts to 
is the largest gift in the Oklahoma Lilly introduced in November 2001 to recruit and retain world-class scien­Medical Research Foundation's 58-treat life-threatening blood infections. tists." year history, said Adam Cohen, direc­The foundation argued it was owed "This gift salutes our teamwork, and 
tor of legal and public affairs. an upfront payment for Xigris' devel­we arc confident it will help lind treat­"We view this as an incredibly gen­opment plus a share of sales. Lilly con­ments and cures for some of today's erous gesture by Eli Lilly," Cohen said. tended it took financial and scientific most challenging medical problems," 
The gift continues a partnership of risks to develop Xigris, and should said Dr. J. Anthony Ware, a Lilly vice more than two decades between reap the rewards. president. 
---------~~~-~~~~--~~~~~~~----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
cent. At the same time, infla­tion on electronic periodicals

E-Journals 
increased ten percent so that continued from page 1 
the five percent cut in budget 
actually amounted to a solyency for this year, but it decrease of about 15 percent. will not fix the long-term In addition to these economic underlying problems that difficulties, further hardships plague the Libraries. have arisen as a result of the 
The problem of inflationary stipulati?ns placed on the costs for electronic journals Elsevier deal at the time it was was unforeseen in the early negotiated. While the stipula­1990s when technological tions appeared harmless at the advances made electronic time, they have come to library resources available become negative consequences over the Internet. For the first not only for Notre Dame, but time, students, faculty and staff also for research libraries members of major universities, across the country. The trans­including Notre Dame, had action with Elsevier prohibits new and unique access to peri­participating universities from odicals and journals .that were canceling any journal subscrip­
not available  tion  from  the  
in print. They  original pack­ 
became a vital tool in con­ducting  "There is only so much money no matter what.  age at the beginning of the agreement. For  
research in all  [The deal] has caused  Notre  Dame,  
academic departments.  budget inflexibility. "  this means that it cannot cancel  
The founda­ any of the origi­ 
tion  for  the  Carole Pilkinton  nal  400 sub­ 
current trou­ electronics resources  scriptions with­ 
ble  was  also  librarian  out negating the  

laid in the 1990s when commercial 
publishers of electronic jour­nals and university research libraries began negotiating deals to provide access to as many subscriptions as possible for the lowest possible cost. Several years ago, Notre Dame joined the Northeast Research Library Consortium (NERL). a group that represents Ivy League research libraries in 
order to take part in these journal deals. 
According to electronics resources librarian Carole Pilkinton, one of the most expansive deals negotiated was with Elsevier, the largest com­mercial publisher of electronic journals. Under the plan, mem­bers of the NERL continued to pay for the Elsevier journals to which they were already sub­scribing, but also received hundreds of other journals free. At Notre Dame, the University Libraries were sub­scribing to 400 journals prior to the Elsevier deal. After the deal, they gained access to another 800 journals with the cost of this new package amounted to the same as the previous one. 
Initially, this arrangement proved to be beneficial for the University Libraries. Almost immediately, every academic department received new jour­nal resources that filled the gaps in their previous collec­tion. In addition, the deal put a cap on the quickly rising infla­tion rates and charged only a cross-access fee instead of the entire cost for subscriptions. 
"At first glance, it sounds like a very good deal," Pilkinton said. "[But] when times are tough, all of a sudden, people look at things in a harsher way." 
In times of economic hard­ship, as in the years of 2001 and 2003, or during budget cuts. libraries cannot afford to pay for as many subscriptions to journals as in other years, yet the cost of the journals con: tinues to rise. For example. the cost of journals has increased by an average of 9 percent a year since 1986 while the con­sumer price has only increased by 3.4 percent yearly. 
At Notre Dame's University Libraries, the annual library budget did not receive an increase in funding for two years. The following year the budget was cut by 5 percent and funding from endowments decreased by another 3.5 per-
Elsevier deal 
and losing the 
800 free jour­nals. 
Because the cost of these 400 journals has risen exponential­ly at the same time the University Libraries budget has been cut, Notre Dame can no longer afford to keep all of its current subscriptions. Faculty members understand this crisis and are willing to cut back on the amount of journals to which they subscribe. Some of the journals they use though, are the ones under the Elsevier deal that cannot be cancelled. This creates another problem 

that the University Libraries are then forced to keep jour­nals that are not often used while they must cancel those subscriptions that are impor­tant but not covered under the deal. 
Pilkinton said the University Libraries are now trapped in a difficult position. If they choose to end the contract with Elsevier, they lose the journals that allow students and faculty to conduct such extensive research. If they chose to con­tinue with the contract, they lose solvency and risk long term budget deficits. 
"It's definitely a tug of war right now," she said. "This eco­nomic model is not sustain­able." 
According to Pilkinton, the University administration is aware of both the economic hardships that the University Libraries are facing and the importance of having electron­ic journal access for students. With other departments facing budget cuts, there is little that can be done to increase fund­ing for electronic journals. 
"There is only so much money no matter what," Pilkinton said. "(The deal] has caused budget inflexibility." 
There is no question that the journals are a staple of aca­demic research on campus. Nearly 330,000 full text arti­cles were accessed between the months of July 2003 and February 2004 alone. The question is rather how any uni­versity can continue to cover the ever increasing costs of education on a fixed budget. 
Contact Laura Vilim at lvilim@nd.edu 
n 

Learn to fl! Ca&f

~F--· 
I 
' t 

~ Fly Casting~
-J ~)~ 
_...~/ 
r 3-90 min. Sessions 
""' 

4/13, 4/20, 4/27 6:30 P.M. -8:00 P.M. All equipment furnished '\.. Fee .. $15 ./ Classes held in Joyce Center and Campus Lakes Equipment provided • First 2 sessions will be held in Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
Register in advance at RecSports Starting 4/8 at 8:00A.M. 
I' 
Course conducted by Dan Bucha 
Certified , American Casting'Association Instructor 

CMU 
CENTRAL MICHlCAN UNIVSRSITY 
APPLY NOW FOR IN-STATE GRADUATE TUITION! 
Central Michigan University announces new Resident Tu.ition Awards beginning May 2004. 
These awards automatically grant in-state tuition to any new student admitted to aCMU graduate program with at least a3.3 overall g.p.a. 

NO APPLICATION REQUIRED! 
For more information on CMU's resident tuition awards visit www.grad.cmicb.edu 

Wednesday, April 7, 2004 





Medical 
continued from page 1 

take a holistic approach. By paying attention to their own health and wellbeing, working to understand the patient and embracing a spirituality or philosophy of care giving, health care professionals can achieve a successful balance, he said. 
People can be compassionate without religion and spirituali­ty, Vachon added. But having these allows a person to better understand the root of that compassion and more effectively of approaching suffering with­out being "swallowed up" by it, Vachon said. 
The process, however, takes time, he said, warning people that there's no such thing as "fast food" spirituality. 
Vachon received his bache­lor's degree and Master's of Divinity from Notre Dame. He earned a Ph.D. in counseling psychology from Loyola University of Chicago. He is the founder of the Institute for the Support and Study of the Caring Professions. a private consulting practice that offers programs for healthcare organizations. 
Next week, 
Dr. Gerardo 
Gomez, a sur­
channel  it  "When you don't care  geon  and  
toward help­ing others and achieving  about[a person] on a deeper level people can  associate pro­fessor for the Indiana  
personal  tell you're faking it.  University  
growth.  People get better when  School  of  
"You can exercise  you care about them. "  Medicine, will deliver a pres- 
without  entation  on  
knowing  Dominic Vachon  obesity  and  
physiology  psychologist  bariatric sur­ 
but  if  you  gery  in  the  
know a little  fourth install­ 
physiology it  ment  of the  

can help you exercise more "Mini Medical School Lecture smartly," he said. "The more Series." The series is present­you know, the more you can ed by the South Bend Center use it to your benefit." for Medical Education and 
A spirituality of caring can sponsored ~y the Medical provide insight into God's Education Foundation. awareness of suffering and his involvement in the healing Contact Andrew Thagard at process. It also provides a way athagard@nd.edu 
Recycle The Observer 

WE'LL GIVE You 10 WEEKS. 
Ten weeks may not seem like much time to prove you're capable of being aleader. But ifyou're tough, smart and deter­mined, ten weeks and a lot of hard work could make you an Officer of Marines. And Officer Candidates School (OCS) is where you'll get the chance to prove you've got what it takes to lead a life full of excitement, full of challenge, full of honor. Anyone can say they've got what it takes to be a leader, we'll give you ten weeks to prove it 
SEE YOUR MARINE CORPS OFFICER SELECTION TEAM 
CAPTAIN JOHN WILUAMS 
1-877-299-9397 
OSOLAF®MCD.USMC.MIL 
MARl N E OFF ICE R PROGRAMS MarineOfficer.com 
2004 

Wednesday, April 7, 2004 The Observer+ NEWS page 9 





Endangered species lack needed protection 
Auociated Press 
Ilundreds of imperiled species around the world -from a tiny opossum to a radiant blue bird -lack protection from human encroachment despite the vast amount of land set aside for con­servation, a new study warns. 
Hesearchers said the findings are a wake-up call pointing to the need for new strategies to ensure that protected lands and the ranges of threatened species overlap. 
1\t present, the largest protcct­Pd areas are in desert or cold cli­mates where the biodiversity is far lower than in tropical areas teeming with life, said Stuart L. l'imm, a professor of ecology at Duke University. 
"The protected areas tend to be in the wrong places. We have huge national parks in /\Iaska, but few protected areas in bio­logically rich places like Florida or Hawaii," said Pimm, who was not involved in the research. 
The findings appear in Thursday's issue of the journal Nature. 
In the study, researchers from nine nations compared maps of more than 100,000 protected areas around the globe to maps of the ranges of 11,633 animal species -mostly tropical and many threatened or endangered. 
They found that for about 12 percent of the species, their ranges did not include parks or nature preserves that would pro­tect them from human activities such as logging, hunting or min­ing operations. 
1\nd among 3,896 species deemed threatened, they found that 20 percent had no protec­tion. /\bout 300 of those animals 
.."·.. 
l··. ·.•.• ..~· •. 
.. .
.
..... 
•
... 
'•::t.... : ••.• 
.t .. ~. •''
:·..; ..... 


are on the verge of extinction. 
They include a tiny Colombian marsupial called Handley's slen­der mouse opossum and Indonesia's Cerulean Paradise­flycatcher, a bright blue bird with 100 or so survivors confined to a single forest-topped extinct vol­cano. Other critically endangered species arc the Comoro black fly­ing fox, a fruit bat found only on the fndian Ocean's Comoros islands, and Myanmar's Burmese star tortoise. 
Smaller studies have shown "gaps" between protected areas and threatened species, but the new work offers the first global view of that situation by evaluat­ing the predicament of some of the best documented animal species, said Ana S.L. Rodrigues. a research fellow at Conservation International in Washington, D.C. 
"Even for these species that we know well, we're finding these levels of unprotection, of gaps. It's alarming," said Rodrigues who was the study's lead author. 
Although about 11.5 percent of Earth's land surface has protect­ed status. she said many devel­oping nations simply lack the resources to protect their nation­al parks. Conflicts over conserva­tion are common, she said, because areas highly attractive to humans such as fertile low­lands and forests are also the richest in species. 
Craig Hilton-Taylor, a Cambridge, England-based con­servation biologist with the World Conservation Union, called the research "scary" because it did not even look at thousands of little-known species such as small mammals, freshwater fish, plants and invertebrates that have very tiny ranges. 

USDA pushed to test for BSE 
Meatpacker pushes for comprehensive mad cow testing 
Associated Press 

ARKANSAS CITY, Kan.­While government regulators try to reassure Americans and international customers the 
U.S. meat supply is safe from mad cow disease, a fledgling Kansas meatpacker is willing to prove it. 
Its survival might depend on it. 
Creekstone Farms Premium Beef is one of the nation's smallest meatpacking compa­nies. But it has set off a firestorm at the U.S. Department of Agriculture and within the cattle industry by seeking permission from regu­lators to privately test all the animals processed at its Arkansas City slaughterhouse for mad cow disease. 
At a time when most of the world has banned imports of AmeriCan beef after the discov­ery of a single case of mad cow disease in Washington state, Creekstone says it has assur­ances from Japanese cus­tomers they would accept its products -if every animal processed at the plant was tested for the brain-wasting disease. 
If Creekstone. receives per­mission from the Agriculture Department to begin such test­ing, and Japan begins import­ing Creekstone beef, the little company will have accom­plished what nobody else could: reopen an Asian market to U.S. beef. 
Doing so, Creekstone insists, is essential if the company and the more than 700 jobs it pro­vides here are to survive. 
The American Meat Institute, the meatpacking industry's trade association, opposes 100 percent testing, calling it an unnecessary expense not war­ranted by science. And to date, the Agriculture Department has not officially acted on Creekstone's request. 
"This is new territory for the Department of Agriculture ­and there are a lot of different issues on the table that have to be addressed," said spokes­woman Alicia Harrison. 
But Creekstone's top otlicials, energized from recent talks with top Agriculture Department otlicials and a visit to Japan, are swiftly moving to ready the plant for mad cow testing. 
"We may be a minority, but every person at this plant believes very strongly what we are doing is right," said Bill Fielding, the company's chief operating officer. "It is worth fighting for." 
On a recent trip to Japan, Fielding said he saw the effects of the discovery of mad cow disease -known formally as bovine spongiform encephalopathy -first hand. Grocery stores hang signs above meat counters telling consumers the beef has been BSE tested, and workers wear­ing "Aussie Beef' aprons gave away free samples of Australian beef. 
Fielding said Creekstone could start shipping meat to Japan within two weeks of get­ting USDA permission. 
While they wait, the compa­ny is working with Kansas State University to set up a lab that would conduct the testing at the Arkansas City plant. 
The plant, which processes 1,000 head of cattle a day, is among the nation's smallest. Industry leader Tyson Foods Inc., for example, processes 30,000 cattle a day at its slaughterhouses. 
The major packers such as Tyson don't just have size on their side; their pork and chicken businesses have bol­stered sagging beef profits, and some have beef packing plants outside the United States, Fielding said. 
Fielding fears if the ban on exports forces small packers like Creekstonc out of business, the result with be further con­solidation in an industry that is already top-heavy. Eighty per­cent of the beef this country eats comes from four meat­packers. 
"On one hand the govern­ment has always tried to at least limit the amount of con­solidation," Fielding said. "But in this case it is playing right into the hands of the big pack­ers and it will be at the expense of the cattle producer as an end result." 
The Arkansas City plant has already survived one brush with bankruptcy. Just seven months after it was opened by Future Beef Operations, the Colorado-based company filed for bankruptcy and by 2002, 900 workers were without jobs. 
The next January, Creekstone -a company founded in 1995 by a Kentucky farming couple with just 37 head of purebred Black Angus cattle -bought the plant to produce its own brand-name beef products. 
Slaughter manager Brad Reed hired as many former Future Beef workers as he could find; as many as 75 per­cent of Creekstone's workers are former employees. 

afayette Square Townbomes 
4 & 5 Bedroom Apartments Available 2004-2005 Free DELL Laptop Valid tlrrough April 16lh, 2004 Contact: Justine or Nicole at 234-9923 
Pretty in Pink 
and Legal to 
Drink! 
Attn: All ND men 
If you can work an up-turn like 

Love,
Meghan, then 
L,E ,A&SC

come celebrate with her at STATE on Wednesday night . 

Happy Birthday Brian! 
Hope your 21 
candles flame as bright as 
you do! 
UR Guyz 

THE 0BSER\1ER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, April 7, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 

Support the best candidate, 
J~O. Box Q, Notre Daf!te, JN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, No(rc Darne,lN 465~ 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 

not the Catholic one 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINllSS MMolt.Gllll  
Mcghannc Downc$  Lori Lewahki  
A.%1'. MANAGING EDITOil  
Joe Herder  

N~ws EDITORt Claire Heininger VI~WPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vahulas SPORTS EDITOR: H~athcr Van Hoegarden 
So!Nll EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDil'OR: Chuy BeniU!z 
GRAPHICS EOJTORt Mike Harkin5 
ADVERTISING MANAGERt Carrie Franklin 
Ao DllSiliN MANAGliR: Kelly Nd.-on 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Todd Nieto 
CONTROUERt Paula Garcia 
CONTACT Us OFFICE MANAG£11 & G.ENEAAl INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 AoVERTISINO (574) 631-6900 obse~wd@nd.(:du 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR & AsSISTANT MANAGING EDitOR {S74) 631-4541 obsmc@nd.cdu 
BuSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsncws.l@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 63!-5303 vicwpoint.l@nd.cdu 
SPORTS DESK 
(174) 631-4543 spom.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'$ DE$K 
(574) 631-4324 smc.J @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 photo@nd,edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631·8839 
OssERVERONL/N£ www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspa~r publisht-d in print and unlim: by the ~tudents of the Univc:r~ity ofNotre D~me du La' and S.Um Mary's C'.AJIIege. Editorial content, induding ad<iercisements, is not governed by policies of the adminisu-.1tion ofeither institution. The ObsetVcr rc.-crves the:; right to refuse adv.:rrisemenr~ based on c.>nrent. 
The news is reported as accuraU!Iy Ol.lld objectively as pu~siblc. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majodty of the Editor in Chief. MaMging Ediw, A<;>;iswnr Managing Edimr and department ediron. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not n=rily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is aVOiilable to all noaders. The fn.-e cxprcS8ion of..Jl opinions through letters is encouraged. l.crtcrs ro rht Editor musr be ~igncd and musr include conracr information. 
QrU"Jtiom n-gardi11g Ob>ervrr pPiicirr should br directed to Editor in Chief Malt Lazar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
1"1~<' ()IJ..._..,\OI,'f (ti~1':S 5~J l-4UOO) 4 jHthi,,IIMI)..f,,mt..y lh."·'u~h J:ri4.ty ~"(~If ..!uri.ll,t:; C:JWIIU KIIJ V~f.mlJ\ j~rWdt.. /<. >~~riiHMm Ul 1'b~· l)i>UfW:~ ~~ ${Qtl ft!{" 1m!,' ~·..J~'tl1j,: )'".U: $')~ f~t <Uit' $i.'fAQr(f. 
l1~ (lb~cr ~ l'u\,!.i~h~'-1 ~: I'O<TMA>'rr.ll 
~1.!.4 ~n~•h tlit11R~ Hllll :W:t•d ~~.~ ~~~rreo;:tiut'~ f(Y. 
Nt~u~ L)~tJ(, tN 41S)')C)..(f77':l Tbt.•l)h.grn:r 
llc:tb:,,bi;.-ll)(»f,)lt'= po)ld •~ N~i!t.rt D<~tll~>' J~t>.\,o!lQ 
~n~1 o~d.iltJl~ll.d m:dlint 11ffku. 014 .Ss·nuh U£11i~ H"'ll 
Nnuc-(l.l.nu.:. IN 46~5'""077? 
'11w (ll~~rw.·r ~~ • tn~·Jnl.••-t uf thc, A5w~l:1.1~ t~.... AU f'C'I'fl)o(hK'fiot• ri~•~ ~tr<.' 
f<."W'n'(.J 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Anneliese Justin Schuver Woolford Matt Puglisi 
Matthew Smedberg Steve Coyer Andrew Thagard Scene Viewpoint Rama Alyssa Brauweilcr Gottumukkala Graphics lUustrator Paul H.oncal Katie Knorr 
In his April 6 letter to the editor. Tom Coffey argues that Am(}rican Catholics should support Catholic politicians. par­ticularly the Presidential election cam­paign of' Democratic candidate John Kerry. As if pooling all American 
Joe Licandro
Catholics into one single voting bloc were not a stretch in and of itself'. The Licandro CoiTey goes on to Non-Factor make the connec­tion that by virtue of Kerry's nomination and a few potcn· tial Catholic running mates, the Democratic party is somehow more in line with the values of' Catholic Americans. 
Such an assertion could not be any further from the truth.Throughout his four terms as senator from Massachusetts. Kerry has proven him· self to be one of the strongest abortion rights advoeatcs in the country. In this respcct,.Amcriean Catholics eould not elect a more un-Catholie President than Kerry. 
Just a few weeks ago. Kerry took a break from the campaign trail to fly to Washington to vote against a bill that makes it a separate federal erime to harm a fetus during an assault on the mother. It is dillicult to see how anyone could vote against this bill,espccially considering the ongoing Scott Peterson murder trial. As it stands now. Peterson can only be tried for murdering his pregnant wife Laci and not the 8­month-old fetus living inside her who was to be named Conner. 
Despite the tragedy of Laci Peterson's death, opponents of the bill reared that its passage might later lead to erosions of reproductive rights: particularly par· tial-birth abortions. Whether or not par­tial-birth abortions eventually arc banned in this country remains to be seen. But regardless of this potential outcome, there is no political, legal or moral justification for Kerry and his 37 fellow Senate democrats who voted against this bill. Thankfully, the Senate, on the heels of' overwhelming Hepublican support. passed this lcgisla· tion, with President Bush ollicially sign­ing it into law Friday in front of' Laei Peterson's appreciative family. 

It is no surprise that the Council of' American Catholic Bishops applauded President Bush l'or signing the Unborn Victims of Violence Act. also known as Laci and Conner's Law. It is also no sur­prise that the Council has refused to endorse Kerry. And that many of' them, as an article in last week's edition of 'Time" suggests. arc torn on whether to even otTer Kerry communion as he parades around pre-dominantly Catholic cities like Cleveland and Milwaukee. allowing the media to cover his visits to church in his attempts to curry the Catholic vote. 
In truth. Kerry's Catholicism or lack of it should not play a role at all in the minds of' voters. In another artiele from last week's "Time." the Senator himself went on record in saying, "We have a strict separation of' Church and state in this country. I will be a President who happens to be Catholic. not a Catholic President." 
To this end, Kerry could not be more correct. For the same reason it is ridicu­lous to suggest that African-Americans should only vote for African-Americans or that I lis panics should only vote for I lis panics. Catholics. and all other Americans. for that matter. should not elect a candidate just because he or she happens to be a member of their reli­gious faith. Only when a candidate's faith may be detrimental to his or her ability to lead should it be a reason not to vote for him or her (for example, a Jewish candidate who advocated Israeli encroachment into Palestinian territory, or a Muslim candidate who refused to condemn and light against Islamic ter­rorism). 
Faith is a private matter and should be kept that way in elections. Kerry. ever the walking contradiction. has refused to adhere to the standard which he espouses. While campaigning in November in Florida, the senator attempted to woo Jewish voters by claiming he had a special bond' with them on account of a Boston Globe arti· cle that discovered the candidate's paternal grandparents were or Jewish origin but later converted to Catholicism upon immigrating to the United States. 
In a reference to the atrocities of World War II, Kerry told his audience. "Had leaders seen the world dilrercntly when there was cause to see it dil'fcr· ently. life might have been different. We understand -and I say we. because I recently learned of my own tics to the Jewish faith, a hundred years ago, which opens a whole new door. a win­dow of connection." 
As controversial as these comments were. Kerry stooped to a new low two weeks ago when he made a Biblical ref­erence in a speech at the New Northwest Baptist Church in St. Louis. "What docs it profit. my brethren. if someone says he has faith but doesn't have works," Kerry said, quoting James 
2:14. "When we look at what is happen­ing in America today. where are the works of compassion'?" 
If certain Catholics want to vote for Kerry, that is their right. But they should not do so because he attends Catholic Mass. Along these same lines. if Americans of any faith want to vote l'or Kerry, that is their right. But do so for his policies. not his shameless attempts to exploit religion. 
Joe Licandro is a senior political sci­ence major. //is column usually appears every other Wednesday. lie can be con­tacted atjlicandr@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily oJThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 

What do you think of Notre Dame's admission standards for football players? 
Vote by 5 p.m. today at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Humor distorts nothing, and only false gods are laughed offtheir earthly pedestals." 
Agnes Repplier author 


,...---------------------------------­
THE OBSER\'ER 






IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 7, 2004 page II 
Opening day is a new beginning 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Are there :really any 'Catholic' politicians? 
Tom Coffey's letter to the editor from April 6 reflects the sad state of American Catholicism today. John F. Kennedy, the first Catholic pres­ident and a Democrat. was elected back when the Democratic Party's main concerns were social and racial juStice, views fully in line with Catholic beliefs. 
However, today's Democratic Party seems to be primarily concerned with abortion rights, gay marriage and other issues that are compromising America's religious beliefs. Heccntly, John Kerry voted against a bill protecting unborn children when the pregnant mother is murdered, and his stance on abortion has resulted in requests, as Coffey noted, for Kerry not to take the Holy Eucharist at Mass. llow any Catholic could stand behind what today's "Catholic" politi­cians support is beyond me. 
On the other hand, the Hepublican Party has us in what most people would not consider a "just war." Hepublicans also support the death penalty and tend to protect business rights at the expense of focusing on the rights of the less fortunate. And, as Coffey noted, the Hepublican Party has not been overly hospitable to Catholics in the past. So this puts the American Catholic in a tight spot. One can either take the moral path with the Republican Party or take the traditional social-oriented path of the Democratic Party. 
It is not easy to be a Catholic voter in America. and it should not be easy to be a Catholic voter in America. But if you simply support the Democratic Party because of its prominent Catholic politicians, I suggest you rethink your Catholic beliefs. Coffey said that 
"there has got to be something about Catholicism which makes being Catholic and being Democrat such a 
good fit." I believe that that "something" died 
once the value of a choice took precedence 
over the value of human life. My Catholic 
beliefs do not lead me to join a party simply because of 
tradition, and Catholic vot­
ers must ask themselves if their beliefs lead 
them to vote according to the 2,000-year-old tradi­tions established by Christ, or the 40-year-old traditions of a political party. 
Matt Wiley junior Sorin Hall April6 
Recovery isn't growth 
"The economic growth in 2003 and 2004 has proven Bush's critics dead wrong." 
What an incredibly optimistic outlook going into this year's election process. I can only assume that Mike Koprowski, in his April 6 letter, is quietly trying to drum up support for the President whose approval rating has hit an all-time low in a poll published Tuesday. 
It is truly a blessing that 308,000 new jobs were created in the month of March; however, Koprowski continues to point out that since August, 750,000 new jobs were creat­ed. That means that, from August to February, only 442,000 new jobs were created. That averages a little over 60,000 jobs a month-not exactly impressive during our time of "economic growth." 
While I'm at it, I don't think "economic growth" is an appropriate enough term for our latest advancements. Koprowski is proud of the fact that the Dow is approach­ing "pre-recession levels." To me. this is not a sign of eco­nomic growth, this is a sign of economic recovery. Growth, as far as the Bush administration is concerned, should be reaching economic levels above and beyond what they were when he took office. Should we applaud a president who digs himself out of his own recession? 
With tax refunds supposedly about to reach record highs, it is no big surprise that consumer spending would increase. The anticipation of those ref!Jnds spurs anyone to go on~ little spree. However, the $1,000 child credit Koprowski mentioned was distributed in the summer of 2003 as an advance. Taxpayers are quickly seeing a dra­matic decrease in refunds and even find themselves owing money because they fail to report those credits as income. 
"Economic growth" is a mere illusion. With _an uncertain future in the Middle East (the IsraeVPalestine conflict as well as the mess in Iraq) and the economic roller coaster that occurs during any election year, I can hardly call Bush's work "impressive." 
Jason Wilkerson class of 2003 April6 

A few days ago, I fell asleep in my bed after a long night of studying and paper-writing. Usually it would be easy for me to get to sleep, but that night I was restless. I didn't know what it was at the time, but something wasn't 
Adam Cahill
right. Nothing 
would work -Advii 
PM, opening the 
windows, closing A Domer's 
the windows, music Outlook 
or reading. Finally, 
though. I fell asleep 
to an unbelievable dream -a green 
field against a sky so brilliantly blue 
that I hadn't the courage to take an 
unstrained look at it. 
On the field were my friends, each 
one wearing a smile of supreme happi­
ness. And it was a game we were play­
ing, though what game I could not be 
sure because the dream faded from my 
memory. 
The following day I stared out the 
window of my closet-like dorm room 
and wondered where the excitement 
had gone. There was nothing new to 
look forward to, it seemed. The nation­
al basketball quarterfinals had just 
ended, and all that remained to the 
basketball season were a mere handful 
of games that were going to be played 
by teams that I had no interest in. The 
cold South Bend days that I had so des­
perately wanted to find relief from had 
no hope of being replaced by anything 
other than wearing sandals to the din­
ing hall instead of hiking boots and 
hours in front of a computer in prepa-J, help me change my attitude toward the oncoming home stretch of the semester. I needed something new, something exciting. I needed something that would continually give me moments of rapture but yet test my patience over a long and grueling bat­tle against time and circumstance. I needed something that would occupy my time but in a setting that can only be described in a Jimmy Buffett or James Taylor song, something closer to the segmented dream that I had expe­
rienced a few nights before. 
But when I walked into the 
opening day what it is. 
Most of the time, it doesn't even mat­ter who plays in the opening days of the season. Whether it is the Detroit Tigers, the New York Yankees or the Chicago Cubs, Opening Day is filled with questions and the lack of answers. Who will have a breakout season? Who is over the hill? 
But what matters most is that every­
one is full of hope and excitement for 
the oncoming season. Even the teams 
that have absolutely no talent in com­
parison to the larger market teams are 
still held together with the slimmest yet 
still ever-present hope that they can 
make a Cinderella run at the World 
Series. 

Opening Day is a new beginning to 
the endless summer days of playing 
stick-ball in the street and throwing 
any kind of ball up into the air so you 
can field it with a gloved hand. It is a 
new beginning to the bottomless bags 
of Big League Chew and sunflower 
seeds. It is anew beginning.to hours 
upon hours of trading baseball cards 
and the need to get as many rookie 
cards as possible. It is the place where 
heroes are born and tragedy is found 
in defeat. 

Opening Day starts the grueling chal­
lenge of being a true fan for 162 games 
and hopefully more. It is the start of · prayers that focus on curses and that they be lifted. Like New Year's Day, 
Opening Day in baseball is a fresh 
start, a new creation born in hope. 
But to me, Opening Day is a new 
beginning to childhood. 
Adam Cahill is a senior history and 
American studies major. /lis column 
appears every other Wednesday. he 
can be contacted at acahill@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column 
are those of the author and not neces­
sarily those of The Observer. 

THE 0BSER\'ER 



CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, April 7, 2004 
MOVIE REVIEW 

'Bellboy': Like a bat out of hell 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Movie Critic 

Cthulhu. Y'ha-nthlei. Yog-Sothoth. K'n-yan. If any of those names sound familiar, then "Hellboy", directed and written by Guillermo del Toro, may be right up your alley. Steeped heavily in Lovecraftian lore, this is one of the better movies to come out in years partially based on the writings of the late author, H. P. Lovecraft. 
That doesn't mean the average moviegoer won't enjoy the movie, as they probably will. It's saying that a person who knows of H. P. Lovecraft, and has been a fan of his previous works, will get a much larger kick out of the movie. 
For example, it's a little hard for the average person to picture ultimate evil as a frozen giant 
And speaking of recycled villains, in "Hellboy" we are treated with Grigori Rasputin. Yes, he is the famed Roman mystic who has already been treated with dozens of films and literature. While it appears Toro is trying to give the movie some historical context, it could just as equally be likely that he is just going with some standard Hollywood villains. 
In the way of characters, Ron Perlman brings the title character to life, and the viewer never gets the feeling that they are watching a guy in a red demon suit. The other charac­ters are just as nice, such as the intel­ligent fish man voiced by David Hyde Pierce. 
Fans of cool swordplay will also get a lot out of the movie, as one charac­ter in particular seems to excel at it. Kroenen, played by Ladislav Beran, is 
a sheer joy to 

squid. in outer watch. It's not
"Hellboy"

space. But to a every day that Lovecraft fan, it's a 

people get to whole new story. watch a "Hellboy" itself masochistic

~1\~iili!i!l' 

was a pretty good sword swing­
Director: Guillermo del Toro
movie. While there ing ninja nazi
Writer: Mike Mignola and Guillermo del Toro
were some logical at work.
Starring: Ron Perlman, Selma Blair, Jeffrey
holes in the story, One charac­
Tambor, Karel Roden, Rupert Evans, John Hurt 
as well as some ter seemed to
and Corey Johnson 
poor editing, it was an enjoyable flick overall. One small complaint though -why does it seem that Nazi's are always behind apocalypse plots? I know they are safe villains, as they are the least likely to offend anyone when they get killed, but a little more imagination could have been used, especially in a movie like this. 
detract (rom 
the film just a little though. Selma Blair, playing the character of Liz Sherman, gives a somewhat disappointing performance. Maybe I'm being a little too hard on her, considering she has to act profes­sionally while talking to a giant mer­man. 
Many people saw the trailers for this 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Scene Movie Critic 

The latest teenage romantic comedy has arrived, and has taken form in "The Prince & Me," starring Julia Stiles and the British actor Luke Mably. While one should not walk into this film with high expectations, chances are the average teenager through 20­year-old girl will not be disappointed. Cheesy? Yes. Predictable? Definitely. Does it make a girl's stomach get but­terflies? Without a doubt (and isn't that really why anyone is at this movie any­how?). 
The storyline of "The Prince & Me" is not a difficult one to follow. Paige (Stiles) is a senior at a university in Wisconsin. Paige Morgan is a dedicated and straight-laced pre-med student who is not going to let love slow her down. 
She meets Prince Edward (Mably) at her night job as a waitress. Prince Edward is the crown prince of Denmark who can't stay out of trouble. 
movie, and probably considered it to be a lame League of Extraordinary Gentlemen knockoff. That's not a good thing, especially when LXG was less than stellar. But those people would also be missing out on a pretty good movie if they simply wrote off "Hellbo~" · 
While it is certainly not a head scratcher, or the latest Hollywood masterpiece, it's an enjoyable little 
flick that will certainly hold more for fans of the comics, or action fans in general. Why not. shake things up a little bit this Easter with watching "Hellboy", although some will proba­bly enjoy watching "The Passion" 
a~ain more,.ll:1 . rrrh , 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mhemende@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 



Stiles finds a prince, lacks a quality plot 
He sees a "Girls Gone Wild"-esque film from Wisconsin and decides to go to college in America as Eddie. It must be something about that Wisconsin air, because as soon as Eddie gets to America, he leaves behind his wild ways in pursuit of Paige. 
Following a very unbelievable char­acter shift, in both the characters of Eddie and Paige, the two end up together. That is until Paige gets a big surprise -Eddie is a prince. Paige of course ends up in Denmark where she must choose between a life with Eddie as queen of 
One could not call Stiles breathtaking, or even necessarily talented, but she is most definitely satisfactory, which is not often the case for her. 
Luke Mably also plays his role as Prince Edward well, providing comic relief in his characters ineptness for day-to-day tasks. Not to mention, he is cute has a British accent and is star­ring in a movie made for teen girls, so generally his performance will be, and deserves to be, well received. The only other standout role is the comic char· acter of Ben Miller as the stoic and 
often-distraught 

Denmark or ful-Soren, Prince
"The Prince & Me"
filling her Edward's "nanny". dreams of 
Overall, "The becoming a doc­Prince & Me" is tor. The end has not a bad film to been advertised see if you enjoy
Director: Martha Coolidge

as surprising, it this type of movie. 
Writer: Mark Amin and Katherine Fugate
is not; but does There is nothing
Starring: Julia Stiles, Luke Mably, Ben
make the audi­impressive about
Miller, James Fox and Miranda Richardson
ence work to get it, beyond the 
there. 
The plot is predictable, yet enjoyable and the acting registers in the same category. Stiles, known for her mediocre acting and annoying fake accents. seems to let her guard down in this film and, apart from one scene where she is clumsily dancing to slow music while wiping tables as Eddie falls for her, Stiles is not annoying in the slightest. The character of Paige fit Stiles well, and whether or not that is only because Stiles in reality is similar to Paige, thus making the "acting" aspect questionable, is largely irrele­vant (hey, it worked for Julia Roberts). 
beautiful setting of the castle in Denmark, but it is also by no means disappointing in its nature. If people are looking for more than "I can live my dreams and have a boyfriend too". don't bother seeing it. Yet, if it is a romantic teen film that won't require a great deal of thinking that someone is looking for, look no farther. "The Prince & Me" promises a story that the title and the advertising imply -noth· ing more, but nothing less. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
....




CENE
Wednesday, April 7, 2004 
page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Rock's solid, but ~walking Tall' loses focus 
Uy BRANDON HOLLIHAN 
Scene Movie Cridc 
Tlw Hoek should not be an action star. 
Okay, let's mphrase that-he shouldn't bt~ just an action star. Granted, when you'n~ a 6-foot-5, 255-pound professional wrnstler (although the Hock, whose real­life name is Dwayne Johnson, seems to be loaning away from that moniker with each passing day) you're going to experience a few type casts early in your career. Nmwtheless, it wouldn't hurt for the Hock to branch out into other genres -the occasional romantic comedy or high-pro­filc indepnndent lilm, once you're securing yourself with $15 million per film project. 
Which is what the Hock has accom­plished with the second film version of "Walking Tall," in 
notices a woman making a purchase in an alleyway on his maiden journey home. Vaughn is afTected directly by the casino's dirty work when his younger cousin Pete (Khleo Thomas) overdoses on crystal meth. 
In a disgruntled rage Vaughn drives to the casino and wreaks havoc on its employees with a two-by-four. The two­by-four's usage is actually a tip of the hat to both the real life person on which the film is based, Tennessee sheriff Buford Pusser, as well as the original 1973 Joe Don Baker version. The rampage leads to Vaughn's arrest, but alas, Vaughn proves he has a brain during the subsequent trial and promises the townspeople to lay down the law as sherifT if he's acquitted. 
The film is actually quite enjoyable up to the major turning point at the trial, as· 
Vaughn is given 
time 

which he plays U.S. to reac­
"Walking Tall" 

Special Forces veter­quaint him with an Chris Vaughn, who 

old friends and is fresh oil' eight years foes. As that

~i!i:i~i~j.

of service and return­develops, so do ing to his home in the conflicts 
Director: Kevin Bray
Washin~-,rt.on to start a Vaughn finds 
Writers: Mort Briskin and David Klass
new chapter in his himself in ­
Starring: The Rock, Neal McDonough,
life. What Vaughn against
Johnny Knoxville and John Beasley
comes home to, how­Hamilton, 
ever, is a corrupted town that has seen its primary source of income -the lumber mill at which Chris' father (John Beasley) worked -closed down and replaced with a casino run by Chris' high school classmate and rival, Jay llamilton (Neal McDonough). 
When not ripping off customers with such gimmicks as weighted dice, the casi­no also serves as a medium for drug dis­tribution. That plotlinc is stylishly alluded towards early in the film as Vaughn 
against .his cronies and against the crooked authori­ties in Hamilton's pocket. All this fine development is unwittingly negated by Vaughn's election as sherilf. 
The movie then trips over itself by showing ofT Vaughn's authority as he com­ically abuses the casino thugs. When it's time to get serious again, the story is trapped within its comic elements. It seems that director Kevin Bray wanted to contrast the action-heroics of the Hock 
By JACQUELINE PIMENTEL-GANNON Scene Movie Cri ric 
From the makers of "0 Brother, Where art Thou?" and "The Big Lebowski" comes the caper comedy "The Ladykillers." The Cocn brothers are sure to delight moviegoers that enjoy heist films and Tom llanks fans alike with this remake of the 1955 comedy starring Alec Guinncss. 
Ilanks stars as professor Goldthwait Higginson Dorr, a classics professor who turns to crime. Dorr arrives at the house of widow Marva Munson (Irma Hall) and rents a room under the guise of needing the root cellar for practices with his clas­sical music ensemble. The ensemble is really his team of crooks -a ridiculously cacophonous collection of men. There is a dumb football player (Byan Hurst), the Vietnamese general (Tzi Ma). a demoli­tion expert named Mr. Pancake (J .K. Simmons) and inside man Gawain MacSam (Marlon Wayans). 

with Knoxville's gleeful, more dimwitted method of fighting bad guys and, it almost works. Give Bray credit for several nice shots which tell the story to the audience through showing rather than exposition, such as Vaughn's opening walk home, along with a very well laid out sequence of Vaughn in his truck just after the romp through the casino. 
Also cnidit the actors for not trying to be too clever and just delivering the material. A weaker cast might have acted more individually and out ot' sync with other characters (think Samuel L. Jackson walk­ing around and yelling incoherently in any action film not riamed "Die Hard with a Vengeance" and you know what I'm get­ting at). We would've ended up with a subpar action film, instead of the par rat­ing "Walking Tall" merits. 
As for the Hock's film future, it's defi­nitely a bright one; he's easy to root for, he knows how to work a film text, and it seems he understands the basics of giving and taking with other actors. If he truly wants to be the next great action star, though, he may face difliculties. 
As it is, "Walking Tall" will likely fade towards the video rental store, .and the Hock will probably continue to have fun making his action films while doing semi­annual appearances for the WWE on the side. Let's hope he's still having fun in the film industry 10 years from now; it'd be a shame to see him bounced out. 
Contact Brandon HoUihan at bholliha@nd.edu 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Good guy Hanks impresses as a bad guy 
llanks has masterminded a plan to rob a riverboat casino by digging a tunnel from Munson's basement to the casino's vault. Surprisingly, the theft turns out to be the easy part of the adventure, even though there are several close calls with Munson coming downstairs to check on the guys. The real problem arises when an accidental explosion leads to Munson seeing the money. 
After some deliberation, the band of thieves decides the best way to handle this situation is to kill off the poor old landlady. This idea proves to be a harder task than first imagined and 
types people.


"The Ladykillers"
leads to an entire­Even the most ly amusing come­
compassionate per­dy of errors that son will have a dif­concludes in an ficult time· not unexpected fash­laughing through 
ion. Director: Ethan Coen and Joel Coen the barrage· of "Ladykillers" Writer: William Rose and the Coen Bros. fatalities late in the afTords Hanks his Starring: Tom Hanks, lnna P. Hall, Marion movie. There is no first opportunity Wayans, J.K. Simmons and Ryan Hurst need to feel bad 
The scenery occasionally leaves some­thing to be desired. A high school pro­duction's backdrops arc more impressive than the flat, two-dimensional sheriff's office fa~;ade. Yet there is great use of a stone carving that appears in the intro­duction of the movie and then again near the end. The music is wonderful, mixing gospel music and classical pieces with "hippety-hop" songs, as Mrs. Munson refers to them. 
From bathroom humor, to long bursts of profanity, to the usc of racial terms, "Ladykillers" offers something to offend 
many different 
of 

to play a true vil­lain. He excels at the part. His facial hair and fake teeth help make him appear difTerent, but it is his accent and laugh that arc most distinguishing. They are at first quite charming, but grow tiresome, and the odd laugh is overused and slight­ly annoying by the end. 
It is easy to forget that "Ladykillers" takes place in the present time period. Dorr's proper attire, Munson's dresses and the decor of her house and the town are more reminiscent of the South of the 1960's than today and contrast sharply with the more modern gold chain of MacSam and crisp suit of the general. 
about cracking up through Pancake and MacSam's hilarious bouts of insults because everyone ends up getting his due by the end of the film. 
Though the plot of "Ladykillers" moves along slowly until the last quarter of the movie, it is nonetheless entertaining. It ­provides a nice rest from the fast-paced caper movies that require the audience to pay close attention. Sec "Ladykillers" if you are looking for some laughs and a fun, mindless way to spend 104 minutes. 
Contact Jacqueline Pimentel-Gannon at jpimente@nd.edu 
page 14 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April?, 2004 
MLB 

Schilling dominates in 4-1 victory over O's 
said. "Because we didn't hit the but updated his status after he
Red Sox avoid falling 
ball and we left some runners underwent X-rays. on base, it's great to win a His leg was placed in a
to 0-2 for first time 
game like that." removable splint. since 1996 with win Baltimore starter Eric Young had a career year last 
DuBose (0-1) allowed three season, batting .297 with 29 
runs, four hits and a career­home runs and 85 RBis. 
Associated Press 
high six walks in 5 1-3 innings. "We hate to lose Dmitri. It's a 
Pitching in the World Series He wasn't terrible, but not bummer, it's brutal," second and dozens of other important nearly good enough to compete baseman Fernando Vina said. games couldn't prevent Curt with Schilling. Detroit began 0-9 last year Schilling from feeling jittery as "He's one of the best pitchers and set an American League he prepared for his first start in the game, and you can't record with 119 losses. The with the Boston Red Sox. expect your offense to get a Tigers did not win consecutive 
"I was nervous all day. That's whole lot off him," DuBose said. games until a four-game win­
just the way I am," hJr said. "You've got to keep their ning streak from May 4-7. "More so today than normal. offense down as long as possi­Maroth struggled, too. Last but I expected that." ble and hope you get a chance Sept. 5 at SkyDome, he became 
Assigned the task of prevent­to win late in the game." the first 20-game loser in the ing Boston from falling to 0-2 Kevin Millar homered for the major leagues since Oakland's for the first time since 1996, Red Sox, who received eight Brian Kingman in 1980. Schilling allowed one run in six walks and made the most of "It's something that I'm not innings to lead the Red Sox five hits. going to be able to forget about, past the Baltimore Orioles 4-1 but to be able to come back Tuesday. Tigers 7, Blue Jays 3 here and get a win gives me 
It was the first win with the An injury to one of its best confidence," Maroth said. "It Red Sox for manager Terry players overshadowed Detroit's really helps me put it in the Francona, and Lee Mazzilli's best start in 18 years. past, too." initial loss as manager of the The Tigers lost slugger Dmitri Maroth, who finished 9-21 Orioles. Young to a broken right leg, but last season. ·allowed three runs 
Boston's decision to pick they beat the Toronto Blue Jays on five hits Tuesday, striking Schilling in the 1986 amateur to open 2-0 for the first time out one and walking one in five draft finally paid off-18 years since 1986. innings. later. Obtained in a trade with "It's frustrating because we Nate Robertson pitched four Arizona in November. the right­have something great going on scoreless innings for his first hander got the Red Sox back on here and I want to be a part of career save. track following Sunday's open­it," Young said. Reed Johnson homered for ing-night loss to Baltimore. Mike Maroth won his first the Blue Jays, who were shut 
"This was different today in a start of the season in the same out Monday in their opener ag lot of ways," said Schilling, now ballpark where he lost his 20th in his 14th major league sea­game last year, and Ivan Devil Rays 9, Yankees 4 become the 100th pitcher in Cleveland Indians son. "It's a different environ­Rodriguez hit a two-run double. Alex Rodriguez unveiled his major league history with 200 Cleveland's bullpen blew ment, there are a lot of expec­Carlos Guillen homered and power-stroke to his new team. career victories. another late lead, and tations, and you want to live up drove in two runs for the Mike Mussina couldn't make it Mussina (0-2) also lost ·last Minnesota finally scored to them the best you can." Tigers. stand up. week's season opener to again-st losing pitcher Jake 
Schilling (1-0) yielded six hits, Young, however, is expected Rodriguez hit his first home Zambrano in Japan, where the Westbrook in the 15th after struck out seven and walked to miss up to six weeks. run for the Yankees. but the Devil Rays and Yankees split a wasting several earlier one in earning his second The designated hitter frac­Tampa Bay Devil Rays roughed pair of games before returning chances. career victory in the AL -the tured a bone in his lower leg up Mussina and overcame an to Florida to resume their The Twins lost rookie catcher first since 1990, when he was when he dropped to the field in early four-run deficit for a vic­spring training schedule. Joe Mauer to a mildly sprained with the Orioles. He spent parts a failed effort to avoid a tag by tory "It's frustrating," Mussina left knee, starting pitcher of three seasons in Baltimore second baseman o-rlando "We talked about that all said. "I felt good out there. I Johan Santana to spasms in his after being traded from Boston Hudson in the first inning. spring. We're going to score made bad pitches." left forearm and Gold Glove with Brady Anderson in July Young appeared to be in runs. Not that we're not going The right-hander allowed center fielder Torii Hunter to a 1988 for Mike Boddicker. severe pain, but was able to put to have problems at times, but nine runs and six runs in four strained right hamstring. 
After throwing 109 pitches weight on the leg as he was certainly we need to rely on our innings. . Nick Punto beat out an infield and staking the Red Sox to a 3-helped off. pitching," Torre said Tuesday Tuesday night~ re-opener single to shortstop with a head­1 lead, Schilling was ordered to "I guess I'm at a loss for night after drew a crowd of 41,755. first dive and stole second in watch the remainder of the words," manager Alan Victor Zambrano gave up the announced as just the second the 15th. game from the dugout. Trammell said. "We're losing first-inning home run to home sellout in Devil Rays his­Doug Mientkiewicz was inten­
"He lobbied a little bit, but it our All-Star from last year. Rodriguez and another to Gary tory, even though it fell well tionally walked, and Punto was wasn't one of his stronger lob­We'll have to regroup. I don't Sheffield, then found a way to short of the 45,369 that turned thrown out at third on Corey bies." Francona said. "The know where we go from here." keep the rest of the Yankees' out for the expansion club's Koskie's sacrifice bunt attempt. whole idea is for him to feel Both Young and Trammell powerful lineup quiet, beating inaugural game at Tropicana With two outs, Jones walked to strong in August and blamed SkyDome's artificial the defending AL champions for Field in 1998. load the bases. September, for us to win, and turf for the injury. the second time this season. Offerman, signed to a minor for him to pltch effectively." "When you stop on turf some­"It looked like it was going to Twins 7, Indians 6 -15 league contract after spending 
Alan Embree and Mike Timlin times you stop too quick, and be a big day for us offensively," Innings all of last season in the inde­
each worked one inning and your joints roll, they don't Rodriguez said. "We were just a Jacque Jones hit a tying pendent Atlantic League, sin­
Keith Foulke got three outs for slide," Trammell said. "That's hit short of blowing it open." homer with two outs in the gled up the middle on a 3-2 
his first save with Boston. the nasty part of being on Julio Lugo hit a two-run ninth inning, and Jose pitch to win if 
"That's kind of how you draw Astroturf." homer and Jose Cruz Jr. went Offerman's bases-loaded single Jones tied it at 6 with a two­
it up, with Schill and then the The team initially announced 4-for-5 with an RBI to deny in the 15th gave the Minnesota run homer off closer David 
bullpen coming in," Francona Young had a sprained ankle. Mussina in his fourth bid to Twins a victory over the Riske. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
Notre Dame faculty seeking sitter New 3/4 bdrm homes Attention 2004-05 Juniors & Country Estate in Buchanan, Ml10 Good luck Dan for 2-yr-old. Ideally Mon/Wed!Fri close to ND, 3 full baths, Seniors, Grad Students. acres w/woods $21 0,000 2198 E Team Truth is gonna deliver 8-4. 2 misouth of campus. Own car, 2-ca garage, frpl, sky-lights. Rental Home Available for Warren Woods Rd. the Word ...
WANTED 
Spanish-speaking a plus. $1640/mo. 2 students. May-Aug and Aug-May 3 BDRM, 2 BA, Re-habed 20 min. Wanted-Old pa1nt1ngs, especially Through end of summer. Contact Call 574-232-4527 lease. Fully furnished. to Lake Michigan,near by lakes for Good luck Ed, Julian, Andrew, Indiana and Notre Dame snerenberg@ sbcglobal.net. or 269-683-5038 All appliances, utilities, fishing, room Matt, Adam, Dave, and company 
(574) 286-9359 cable & high speed internet for horses. Quiet. Ready to move Jet to victory 
DOMUS PROPERTIES... HAS A included. Off street parking. into. 574-674-9548 Catholic family offering fulltime 8 BEDROOM HOUSE ...2 4 miles from ND. Let me get that neck, crazy morican 
-
FoR RENT 
summer childcare opportunity BEDROOM HOUSE... $450/month/student. 
to care for 4 school age children, 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALK TO 2 BEDROOM DUPLEX...AND 574-656-8695. PERSONAL Can Taylor come out and play? ages 5 to 11, Scottsdale Mall area, CAMPUS MMMRENTALS.COM THREE 3 BEDROOM CONDOS 7:30AM to 5:00PM,wages mmmrentals@aol.com 272-1525 AVAILABLE FOR THE 2004-2005 UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 
Pain of discipline, pain of regret 


FOR SALE 
Take your pick Maureen@ (574) 231-8126. bdrms close to ND. Spring, summer LEASE FOR THE 2005-2006 1042 Lawndale, South Bend, IN or assistance, please call Sr. Mary or fall. 235-3655. SCHOOL YEAR... Pymts can be LOWER than RENT. Louise Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. 
own transportation a plus, contact Student houses and apts. 2-3 or 4 WE ARE ALSO STARTING TO you love needs confidential support 
Hi Mr. Ben 

Gatekeeper at Bendix Woods CONTACTKRAMER 3 BR, 2 Story wlbsmt. For more information, see our County Park, Sats. & Suns., 1 May-2,4,5 Bedroom Apartments near AT OFFICE 234-2436 OR Re-habed new roof, carpet, bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 31 Oct. Approx. 14 hrs/wk, campus. Only a lew left lor next CELL 315-5032 bath, kit. 
Cuck da Fubs call 574-654-3155. school year. Call Justine, 234-9923. FOR SHOWINGS $50K. 574-674-9548 Only two days left ... And burn down the Urinal 
negotiable, non-smoker preferred, SCHOOLYEAR.... not go it alone. If you or someone 
Wednesday, April 7, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page IS 
I I 
l 
4 
l



After 5 years with N.Y., Clemens finally home •4 
4 4 
MLB 
'The Rocket' ready to make first Astra start today vs. S.F. 
A>so<iatcd Press 
IIOUSTON -Hoger Clemens elimbed into his burnt orange llummnr, hnaded down 1-10 and drove right to work. After all those years on the road, he was truly home. 
From the lone star on his hat to the train whistle coming from left 11eld at Minute Maid l'ark, it Iouks and sounds somewhat strange to see Cl ll nHlll s pIa yi n g f0 r t he llouston Astros. 
Not that he minds a bit. 
"Everything's a little differ­mlt," he said on opening day. ".Just getting up today and coming down and doing the pep rally and going back home, and get some things together and back down here for the game, that's extremely different for me. 
"It's 15 minutes instead of a four-hour flight to New York. I'm still really trying to absorb everything," he said. "It's real­ly neat to see the excitement that it has generated from everyone now that we're get­ting underway. I, too, am excited." 
A cartoon image of Clemens holding his glove high is plas­tered on billboards around the city and posted on the right­field scoreboard as part of the team's "Hoot For the Good Guys" campaign. A sellout crowd, including 2,000 stand­ing-room scats that were quickly gobbled up, was expected for his National League debut. 

The Hocket was set to make his Houston launch on Wednesday night, facing Barry Bonds and the San Francisco Giants. 
At 41, Clemens is technically making a comeback, having ended his Hall of Fame career after the New York Yankees lost the World Series to the Florida Marlins last October. 
But by the standards set by Michael Jordan, Ryne Sandberg and a bunch of big­name boxers in recent years, it isn't much of a comeback at all -officially, Clemens' retirement lasted just 78 days. 
Clemens made his decision after good buddy and fellow Yankees pitcher Andy Pettitte decided to leave New York and sign with the hometown Astros. 
Pcttitte made his Houston debut on Tuesday night. 


Former Yankees pitcher Roger Clemens follows through on a pitch In Game 4 of the World Series on Oct. 22 against the Florida Marlins. Clemens spent the past five years pitching In New York. 

1U%eCareer Center
d..W, 
41fltdhitinntJefNotrtlllllltdrll...« 

Apply for a job or internship NOW! ImmediateApplkation DeadlinesforTop Notch Companiesl 
Apply via Golrish by logging on to http://careercenter.nd.edu Questions? Call the Career Center 631-5200 
Application Deadlines 
United Conveyor (FIT & Intern} 4/8 ENG-Only 7 applicants 

Banker Life and Casualty (F/Tl 4/8 A&L, BUS-Only 2 applicants 
Harper.Collins-Res Drop (lnt} 4/9 A&L, BUS 
Fox News-Res Drop (lnt} 4/10 A&L, BUS 
Canopy Films-Res Drop (lnt) 4/12 A&L 
Morgan.Stanley (FIT) 4/13 BUS 

During the game, a playful conversation between them was shown on the video board, drawing laughs from the fans. 
"Did I believe it was possible that what happened would happen? Yes, I did," Hall of Fame pitcher Nolan Hyan said before Tuesday night's game. 
"I felt that Hoger still had the tug to compete," said Ryan, who also extended his career by returning to his Texas roots. "But I know he also felt very strongly about being away from his family and some of the things he had missed living in Texas and playing in New York." 
So now, with 310 career wins, a couple of World Series rings and all the money he'd ever need, Clemens is hoping to help Houston win its first title. 
"There's a lot of people that are excited about this year, and rightfully so because some of the guys may not be back next year," he said. "I've won 20, I've won Cy Youngs and championships ... I want suc­cess for them." 
"Let's face the facts. I'm the elder statesman," he said. 
Astros All-Star outfielder Lance Berkman is thrilled to have Clemens in the same clubhouse. 
Berkman was born in Waco, grew up in Austin rooting for Clemens at the University of Texas and later played for the Rocket's college coach. 
"His competitiveness and toughness, they embody what being a Texan is all about," Berkman said. 
Pitcher Wade Miller is equal­ly enthused, even though he's been a bit leery about approaching his new team­mate. 
"I want to respect his priva­cy," Miller said. "But it's got­ten where every time he comes in, he taps me on the shoulder and says, 'What's up, Whitey?"' 
Along with calling Miller by his nickname, Clemens has offered him some advice. In particular, a mechanical adjustment that would make it appear Miller is pointing toward a right-handed batter's shoulder when he delivers. 
"He's going to do a lot of things for all of us," Miller 
-
said. 

Maybe he might even show them how to get Bonds out. Not that Clemens has done it yet. 
Bonds reached base in all four of his plate appearances against Clemens -three walks, two of them intention­al, and a hit by pitch. Provided the situation is right, it will be power vs. power when they face each other again. 
"That's when the fans win. That's a time you don't want to make a trip to the conces­s'ion stand because I'm going to turn it loose," he said. 
TOLSTOY,OOSTOEVSKY,AKHMATOVA, TCHAIKOVSKY, STRAVINSKY, PROKOFIEV, CHAGALL, PAVLOV, BARYSHNIKOV••• 
N.A.S.A. PAYLOAD SPECIALIST, 
U.S. ARMS CONTROL LIAISON, WORLD BANK INVESTMENT ADVISER... 

WHAT DO THEY
. 

HAVE IN COMMON? 




RUSSIAN 
-
Federate Insurance (FIT) 4/14 A&L, BUS, SCI, ENG, Grad, Masters, Alum 
RUSSIAN 101, FALL 2004 NO PREREQUISITE
Crist Associates-Res Drop (lnt} 4/15 A&L, BUS 

http:/ jwww.nd.edu/--grl 
page 16 Wednesday, April 7, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
MASTERS 
Woods heavy favorite to take fourth Masters 
However, the field has never been so packed with contenders 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. -One gr~en jacket and Tiger Woods already was being compared to Jack Nicklaus. 
Four straight majors, and the comparisons climbed even high­er -to himself. 
The lofty standard facing the No. 1 player in golf was never more clear when Woods arrived at Augusta National. He is the betting favorite to win the Masters for the fourth time, and yet there is a feeling this major has never been so ripe with contenders. 
He has won eight majors ­none of his peers have more than three -but Woods is fac­ing sharp scrutiny because he has gone the last six majors without winning. 
"It's different for me versus any other player," Woods said Tuesday. "Some other player has a bad week, misses the cut, it's no big deal, he slips through the radar. Whereas, if I shoot one bad round, it's a little dif­ferent." 
But this is no surprise. 

"It's the only thing I've ever known since I've been out here," Woods said. "I was com­pared to Nicklaus when I first came out here, and now I'm inconsistencies in his game that he is trying to solve. 
One week he drove the ball to all corners of the golf course and was spared by good iron play. 
The next week he found the fairways, but could never get it close to the hole. 
He hits the ball great on the practice range. There are moments of doubt on the first tee. 
"It's not easy to trust your swing if your mechanics are not quite sound," Woods said. "That's one of the things that I've been trying to work on, try­ing to get my fundamentals of my golf swing more sound so I can go out there and don't have to think anything except for the shot I want to hit." 
That has led to questions about the state of his game, his split with swing coach Butch Harmon and the pursuit of Nicklaus' 18 majors that no longer looks as easy as it did two years ago. 
Augusta National should be a good place to find some answers. 
No--one has ever played the Masters on a course this long and this firm. 
While the fast fairways should negate some of the length, the greens will accept only the best shots. 
It doesn't necessarily favor the longest hitters or the sharpest short games, but sim­ply the best players. 

"A guy that feels good about his game this week, he's got a good chance to win," Els said. "It's pretty open." 
Woods already noticed some severe differences. 
He could reach the par-5 sec­ond hole with a good drive and a 3-wood the last few years. During a practice round Monday, he got there with a 6­iron. 
What really got his attention was the precision required this week. 
Playing the third hole on Tuesday, Woods said Mark O'Meara hit a slight draw and watched the ball run through the green. He approached it with a soft fade that landed in about the same place, only Woods' ball stayed on the green. 
"If you don't hit the proper shot this week, you're really going to pay the price," Woods said. "The landing areas are that much smaller now. It's going to become more apparent who is really hitting the ball as the week goes on, because you can't get away with having a bad ball-striking day." 
Then again, Woods can't get away with a bad day at any­thing. 
Going for his fifth consecutive victory in the Bay Hill Invitational, he shot over par the final three rounds and tied for 46th, his worst result on the PGA Tour in five years. 

In his final tournament before the Masters, Woods opened with a 75 at The Players Championship and was in dan­ger of missing the cut. He extended his record streak to 120, but was never a factor on Sunday. 
Never mind that he won earli­er this year at the Match Play Championship, or that his last two events were the only times he has finished out of the top 10 this year. 
Woods, along with his peers, tend to look at the big picture. "I've got to go back to his '99 through 2001 seasons, and 
probably 2002," Els said. "He played on such a level that I think Nicklaus would have had a very tough time handling him. And yes, he's cooled down a lit­tle bit. But he's still playing on a very high level. He's up there." 
Vijay Singh is closing in on the No. 1 ranking Woods has held the last five years. Els has already won twice this year, one of those at Royal Melbourne in Australia, which reminds so many people of Augusta National. 
Adam Scott, the guy who swings like Woods, is coming off a victory in The Players Championship. 
being compared to what I did in 2000, 1999 and 2001." It was during that time that 
-
Woods made history just about every time he played. He won nine times and $9 million in 2000, the centerpiece of a stretch when he won five out of six majors. 
Expectations have taken on a new meaning. 
"The people out there, specta­tors, if they don't see Tiger in the top five making a charge on Sunday afternoon, there's something wrong with him," Ernie Els said. 
But even Woods concedes that his swing is not the same as it was in 2000, and there are 

Smith Barney invites you to their 
Notre Dame Financial Symposium 
Planning for the years ahead. 
Revised tax laws, market uncertainty, a changing economy. Where does your financial plan stand? Join us at our Notre Dame Financial seminar to hear from 15 professionals on financial topics that could be important to you and your family. You can attend up to 4 breakout sessions before the keynote speaker begins at 11:30 a.m. 
Keynote Speaker Dr. Kevin Elko 
Corporate and NFL• Performance Consultant & Author of "Nerves of Steel" 
DATE: Saturday, April 17, 2004 TIME: 8:00a.m. to 12:30 p.m. LOCATION: University of Notre Dame 
McKenna Hall (across from the Morris Inn) 
Parking at Hesburgh Center visitors Jot on NO Avenue across from cemetery. 
RSVP: (574) 631-6691 
Reserve your space. Cost: $20 per person. 
Refreshments and light lunch included. We welcome your friends and colleagues. Seating is limited. 
Your Breakout Session Speakers (each speaks twice): 
8:30 a.m.-9:05a.m. & 10:00 a.m.-10:35 a.m. Mark Howard, Regional Loan Specialist, 
CitiMortgage: Strategies for Debt
Ralph Allen, Regional Vice President, 

ManagernentfBorrowing Money Investing/Current Market Overview Lyndon Keyes, Director Interactive 
Pioneer Investments: Stock Market Marketing, Smith Barney NY: FinancialRobert Malvenda, Director 
Record Keeping Via Computer 

Bond Investing Strategies/Current Market Bill Ventura, Regional Advisor, Lincoln Overview Financial: Strategies for Paying Long Term Joseph Russo, Director of Financial Aid Smith Barney Municipal Retail Sales: 
Health Care Costs 

University of Notre Dame: Funding 8:30 a.m.-9:05 a.m. & 9:15 a.m.-9:50 a.m. Co/lege Education/Strategies and Tools 
Bob Walsh, Public Affairs Specialist 
for You • 

Social Security Administration: EverythingTracey A. Anderson, JD, LLM, CPA 
You Wanted to Know about Social Security South Bend IN: Tax Planning/IRS Code 
10:00 a.m.-10:35 a.m. & 10:45 a.m.-11:20 a.m.
Changes You Should Know Jim Casey, Regional Trust Specialist, 
Jeff Ochs, Insurance Consultant, Citigroup Private Trust: Wills, Estates andInsurance Designers: Understanding Life 

Trust Planning Strategies Insurance for EstatefTax Purposes 
8:30 a.m.9:05 am. & 10:45 a.m.-11:20 arp.

9:15 a.m.-9:50a.m. & 10:45 am.-11:20 a.m. Jason Heine, Regional Vice President, 
Bob Hartig, Regional Vice President Nationwide Financial: 401(k) Issues for PlanAmerican Funds Distributors: Why Is 

Sponsors-How ERISA Affects YouInternational investing Important to You 

Bill Taratsas, Regional Vice President 9:15 a.m.-10:35 a.m. (one presentation only) lNG Golden Select Annuities: Protecting Larry Sherman, Regional Director, The Your Investments with Variable Annuities Geneva Company: Selling Your Business: VVIJy___ When ... and How 
-
Holy Cross Colleoe CXlUid make your wish come true. 
lf you have afriend or relative who would like to be doser to you ooxt year, tali them about Holy Cross College-Wf'rQ right ooxt door to :Notre Dame and 
Saint Man;"$. n,~~ C~'~> fd comn1.-. tllilf A....~~,. ..... N•m',..•.i---.
'1 -''~1 YU ~~~~-~~~~~ ~~~~~. transfer, or pursue ,our Bachelor of Arts In Liberal Studiles degree. 
Give us acall at 239-8400 or a-mail admissions@hcc-fld.edu. Freshmen and transfer applicants are currently being accepted for Summer and 'Fall 2004 admission. 

THIS IS WHO WE ARE. THIS IS HOW WE EARN IT.· 
SMITHR\RNEY 
otJgrouP't 

Mutual fUnds and variable annuity investments are subject to market risk, including possible loss of principle. Variable annuities are long-term investments intended for retirement planning. Taxes may be due upon withdrawals from the contract. Withdrawals may be subject to a 10% federal penalty tax if made before age 59~ and are subject to quali­fied retirement plan provisions. Copies of the prospectUSt which contains more complete information including fees and expens~ will be available at the seminar. Please read the prospectus carefully before investing. There are addi­tional risks associated with international investing. International investing may not be for everyone. Smith Barney does not prov1de legal or tax advice. Please consult your attorney and/or tax advisor for such guidance. 
C>2004 Crtigroup Global Markets Int. Member SIPC. Smrth Barney is a division and service mark of Citgroup Global Markets In<. and its affiliates and is used and registered throughout the world. OTIGROUP and the Umbrella Device are trademarks and service marks of Citicorp or its affiliates and are used and registered throughout the world. THIS IS WHO WE ARE. THIS IS HOW WE EARN IT is a service mark of Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Geneva, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Citigroup Private Trust are all affiliated companies under the common control of Citigroup Inc. 
Wednesday, April 7, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 


Huskies fans celebrate national championship 
Associ~led Press 
STOHHS, Conn. -Thousands of boisterous fans cheered and congratulatnd the national cham­pion Connecticut basketball team Tuesday. just hours before the wonwn's team took the court for its own title bid. 
Tlw women's team was in New Orlt·ans Tuesday whnre it won il<> third consecutive championship and gave Connecticut an un prnc!Hlcn ted sweep of the NCAA basketball titlt~s. 
Nnarly 5,500 fans decked out in lluskii!S apparel and waving blue and whito pompoms greeted the mou 's l1m111 at Gampd I'aviiion. 
Outside, police prepared for out-of-eontrol celebrations like the ones aftnr the Huskies won tlw title Monday night that result­~~d in :-15 arrests, overturned cars and bonliros. 
Star center, Emeka Okafor, selected the most outstanding player of the Final Four, was 
weary from the trip, having had little sleep since the title game. lie said the accomplishment was still somewhat unbelievable to him. 
"We were actually in the cham­pionship game and we actually won the dang thing," Okafor said. "We made a lot of people proud." 
When Ben Gordon got on stage to address the crowd, the arena erupted into chants of "One more year!" 
Gordon, a junior guard, is expected to skip his senior year for the NBA. 
"I just want to thank everyone in this building," Gordon said. "It's been a great three years here." 
The architect of the Huskies' two national titles, coach Jim Calhoun, was greeted with shouts of "Hall of Fame!" 
IIe learned on Monday that he had fallen one vote short of being inducted into the Basketball Hall of Fame. 

Fans celebrate Connecticut's national championship at Huskies Bar In Storrs, Conn. on Monday after the Huskies won their second championship by knocking off Georgia Tech, 82-73. 
ECDC Registration 
The Early Childhood Development Center (ECDC) is currently registering chlldren for the 2004-05 School Ye-Jr and me 2004 Summer Day Camp. ECDC ar Saint Mary's College enrolls children ages 3 through 5 dwing the school year and 3 through 9 during the summers. ECDC at Notre Dame enrolls children ages 2 through kindergatten during the school year and 2.5 through 9 during the summer. For more information and ECDC Parent Tours, please call one ofthe numbers below. 
Early Childhood 

-· 
Development Center, lnc. 
574-284-4693 (ECDC·SMC) 

574-631-3344 (ECDC-ND) 

-
~--~-­
~ ~ 
•~ 
' 
' 
' 

OUND THE NATION
' 
' 
' 
: page 18 CoMPILED nzotvtTHE OBSERVER's wuu SERVtcEs Wednesday, April 7, 2004 

============================================================================= 

around the dial 
NHL 
Nashville at Detroit, 6 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 
Chicago at Kansas City, 1 p.m., FOX Chicago San Francisco at Houston, 6 p.m., ESPN2 Chicago at New York, 6:30 p.m., WGN 
NBA 
-
Chicago at New York, 6:30 p.m., WGN Golden State at Portland, 9 p.m., ESPN 
SNOWBOARDING Big Air Series, 3:30p.m., ESPN 
SKIING Freestyle Nationals, 2:30 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 

NEW ORLEANS -Make it a double for Connecticut. 
Connecticut's women completed a championship sweep for the school by beating Tennessee 70-61 Tuesday night, one day after the men's team won their tournament. 
With key contributions from everyone and the incomparable Diana Taurasi leading the way, the Huskies captured their third straight title by hold­ing off the Lady Vols. It was further confirmation that Connecticut has sup­planted Tennessee as the top program in the women's game. 
So now there's a new Titletown: tiny Storrs, Conn., the Huskies' home. The victory by the women followed Connecticut's win over Georgia Tech in the men's championship game Monday night, making Connecticut the first Division I school to sweep both titles. 
It was the fifth title over­all for the women and it came at the expense of the only other school that has won three straight cham­pionships. Tennessee and coach Pat Summitt still lead all teams with six NCAA titles, but the Huskies and coach Geno Auriemma are closing fast. 
They started fast in this one, racing to a 17 -point lead in the first half. Tennessee got the lead down to six at halftime, closed to three early in the second half and trailed by just two after Brittany Jackson hit a 3-pointer from three feet behind the arc with 9:50 to play. 
Connecticut got the lead back to eight, but the Lady Vols kept coming. Ashley Robinson blocked Barbara Turner's turnaround shot, raced to the other end, caught a no-look pass from Shanna Zolman and made a layup, drawing the Lady Vols to 59-55. 
It would get no closer. Willnett Crockett's three­point play, her only points 
of the night, stopped Tennessee's momentum and the Huskies finished it off with free throws. 
Taurasi, who has tor­meqted Tennessee with big games against the Lady Vols throughout her career, led the Huskies with 17 points in her final college game and was named the Final Four's outstanding player for the second year in a row. And she had plenty of help. 
Jessica Moore and Ann Strother each scored 14 points and Moore grabbed nine rebounds. 
The Huskies are 4-0 against the Lady Vols in national championship games. 
IN BRIEF 
Navratilova cheered in rare 
singles appearance 
Amelia Island, Fla. -Martina Navratilova lost her first singles appearance in the United States in more than 10 years, falling to Milagros Sequera 1-6, 6-3, 6-2 Tuesday at the Bausch & Lomb Championships. 
The 47-year-old Navratilova, impressive in the first set, lost the last four games of the second, and lost her serve twice to fall behind 3-0 in the third. She rallied to 3-2 down, but was broken again in the seventh game. 
"I lost it mentally," Navratilova said. "I was fn an·d out the last two sets." 
Afterward, she received a standing ovation. 
"It was sweet," Navratilova said. "The people were obviously excited. It was great to be out there." 
Sequera was a last minute replace­ment for Kristina Brandi of Puerto Rico, who withdrew because of a left foot injury. 
"She's a legend," Sequera said of Navratilova. "I was a bit intimidated to play her." 
Navratilova, the winner of 18 sin­gles and 31 doubles Grand Slam events, took this event three times during the 1980s including the tour­nament's first title 25 years ago. She accepted a wild-card entry to help her doubles game, and to inspire oth­ers. 
Thomas to face Pacers for first time as Knicks president 
INDIANAPOLIS -Isiah Thomas made a familiar drive Tuesday from his family's home in Indianapolis to Conseco Fieldhouse. 
This time, however, was different. The New York Knicks president was preparing to watch his first basket­ball game in Indianapolis since being fired in August as coach of the Pacers. 
"It's definitely different," Thomas said of his commute with his wife. "I didn't feel bad or anything, it was good memories and good thoughts." 
His Knicks were dominated Tuesday night, losing 107-86. 
Thomas coached the Pacers from 2000-03, failing to get the team out of the first round of the playoffs each time. 
He was hired by the Knicks in December to replace Scott Layden and immediately shook up the moribund franchise. He traded for Nazr Mohammed, Stephon Marbury and Tim Thomas, who have helped the Knicks get right back into the playoff picture. 
When longtime adversary Larry Bird was hired as Pacers president last summer, Thomas sensed his time in Indiana was over.· 
"It wouldn't have mattered if we made it to the Eastern Conference Finals," said Thomas. 
' 
' 
• 
L___~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, April 7, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NO SOFTBALL
SMC GOLF 
Irish split 2 games
Belles take fifth at Invite 
By ANN LOUGHERY 
Sports Writer 
The Belles walked off the course with a collective sense of frustration at the Quincy College Invitational. 
But coach Mark Hamilton is encouraged by their impatience in regards to the meet's results. 
"It shows that they have the desire to do well and play their best," I Iamilton said. 
Saint Mary's recorded a fifth­place finish, posting a team two­day total of 698. Indiana was the top finblwr with a 649. 
Junior Stefanie Simmerman led the Belles with a ninth-place fin­ish, followed by Julia Adams at 13th, Uz Hanlon at 18th, Chrissy Dunham at 20th and Nicole Bellino at 21st. 
Sunday proved to be the better of the two-day invitational for the Belles. The team recorded a total of 346 strokes, with each of the players keeping their scores below 90. Bellino and Hanlon each posted 88, Dunham shot 87, Adams registered 86 and Simmerman recorded an 85. Sophomore Kirsten Fantom also scored a 101, although her results were not factored in the overall team results. 
"We were a little inconsistent [on Sunday!." Hamilton said. "We were all in the 80's, but unfortu­nately, we were on the wrong side of80." 

The second day seemed to be 
against Boiler111akers
more of a challenge for Saint 
Mary's, with the lineup posting a total of 352. 
"We're still trying to put some solid scores together so we can physically and mentally peak at the NCAA championship," Hamilton said. 
Simmerman bested her first day score by two strokes at 83. Adams logged an 86 and Hanlon finished with an 88. Hamilton cited Hanlon as an-individual who is starting to realize her potential. 
Chrissy Dunham shot a 95, and Bellino walked off the course with a 95. 
Contact Ann Loughery at 
alougher@nd.edu 
Team wins opener before dropping second game, 4-3 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
After playing the role of comeback kids in the first game of Tuesday's doubleheader against Purdue, Notre Dame fell short in their comeback in game two. Notre Dame took the first game against Purdue 4-2, but fell by a score of 4-3 in 
extra innings in the second game. "I don't think [the team] ever
SMC TENNIS 
·thinks a game is over," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. 
The Irish (29-11) fell behind in the first inning in the early game with the Boilermakers
Albion looms for the Belles 
By STEVE COYER 
SportsWriter 
More than halfway through its season, Saint Mary's may face its toughest competition today in Albion. 
With a 7-2 victory over Bethel Monday, the Belles (12­
4) have won eight of their last nine matches and have a 3-0 record in the conference. 
Albion (10-4) is the only team in the MIM with a comparable record. having won 10 of its last 12 with a 3-0 record in the league. 
Saint Mary's suffered a dilli­cult I.J-0 loss to Valparaiso last weekend but looked much stronger in recent victories against Chicago and Bethel. 
Freshman Grace Gordon won both her singles and doubles matches against Bethel while Kris Spriggle and Kaitlin Cutler won their doubles match to improve to 12-1 on the year. 
After two straight losses, the No. 1 doubles team of Kate Bowler and Jeannie Knish gained a victory over Bethel to bring their overall record to 7­8. 
Albion has proven to be the Belles' main rival in the MIM. Last season, the Britons defeated the Belles for the overall league title, but two 

years ago the situation was . reversed with Saint Mary's beating Albion. 
With Katie Tornga who received MIM first-team hon­ors last year as a freshman and the strong doubles team of Emily and Karen Dumas, Albion has easily won all of its league matches this year. 
Saint Mary's has only had one close league match in a 5­4 victory over Hope. The Belles won 9-0 in their two other league matches this season. 
Saint Mary's faces Albion at home today at 3 p.m. 
Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd.edu 

Gumpf said. "They've done it before. It's nothing new." 
Booth finished with seven strikeouts while earning her 15th win of the season in 20 starts. 
After not getting on the board early in game one, the Irish looked to change that in game two. 
Stephanie Brown lead off with a single, and on a deFau bunt and Purdue threw the ball away, allowing Brown to go to third. The Irish then executed a double steal. and deFau was thrown out at second while Brown scored the first Notre Dame run. 
But that was all for the Irish, who had trouble scoring against Purdue's Diana LaHiva. 
"(She] did a great job," Gumpf said. "We got behind in the count all the time, and we let her hurt us." 
While LaRiva held the Irish, teammate Staci Falzon gave her pitcher support by hitting a solo shot to centerfield. This tied the game, and it stayed that way until the top of the eighth, the firSt extra inning. 
Irish pitcher Steffany Stenglein issued a leadofl' walk, and two batters later. Erika Peterson hit a home run to put Purdue up 3-1. Johnson, the next batter, followed with a homer of her own, giving the Boilermakers a three-run cush­ion going into the bottom of the inning. Gumpf cited the lack of movement on Stenglein's pitch­
-
es that hurt her in the final inning. 
But the Irish weren't done. They still had fight left going into the bottom of the eighth down three. After Huthrauft' walked, the next two batters made an out. But Schoonaert hit a double to center, scoring Huthrauff. Next up was Carissa Jaquish, who laced a triple to score Schoonaert. But Nicole Wicks popped out to right to end the rally, giving Purdue the 4-3 victory. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
(23-13) when DaQueta Johnson hit a towering shot to center, driving in Tricia Lilley from first base. But in the bottom half of the inning, the Irish came back when Meagan Ruthrauff drove in Nicole deFau with a one-run single up the middle. 
In the third, Ulley hit a solo homer off the left field foul pole to put the Boilermakers ahead for the second time in the game. 
It was then that Irish pitcher Heather Booth bore down, and didn't give up any more runs the rest of the way. 
"Heather wasn't perfect today, but she's a fighter," Gumpf said. "She's a fighter, and that's why she is success­ful." 
Booth also received some help from her offense in the first game. In the third, the Irish scored after a Purdue defensive miscue, tying the game at 2-2. Nicole Wicks tripled home Sara Schoonaert in the fourth to put the Irish ahead for good 3-2. The Irish added another run in the bot­tom of the sixth as well, as a result of another Purdue error. 
"I didn't have any doubt we were going to come back," 
Studying for MCATs? Need a designated deriver? Or just want to be 
Mathemagical? 
Come hear Dr. James P. Keener fuse math, biology and chemistry as he discusses diffusion Thursday, April 15 from 8·9PM Room 127 of Hayes· Healy 

Come early for some free Pizza Pi 7t
7t 

•All majors, ages and genders invited. Lucky You! 
Wednesday, April 7, 2004 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 
BASEBALL 

Irish fight off scare from Cougars, win big 
By CHRIS FEDERICO Senior Staff Writer 

Chicago State gave / No. 5 Notre Dame a scare Tuesday night. 
And then the Irish starters came in the game. 
The Cougars (1-27) jumped out to a 3-0 lead playing against many Irish reserves before Notre Dame coach Paul Mainieri put his starters into the game into the fifth inning. 
From there, the Irish (23-3) rolled to a 15-5 victory over the outmatched Cougars. 
"I hated to take those kids all out," Mainieri said. "I wasn't upset with all of them, but there was a little bit of a lack of intensity that I expected from some guys.... The bottom line is we went through the lineup twice and had only one hit." 
After the regulars entered the game in the fifth, the Irish bat­ters went 11-for-23 and put 15 runs on the scoreboard in just four innings. 
Chicago State jumped out to the early lead in the third when Cougar batters strung together four consecutive hits with two outs against Irish starter Chris Vasami. Chicago State first baseman Derrick Bass capped off the scoring for the Cougars with a two-run double to the gap in right center. 
In the top of the fifth, a con­cerned Mainieri made a slew of substitutions with his team down 3-0, sending Sean Gaston to catch, Matt Edwards to first,
-
Greg Lopez to shortstop, Matt Macri to third, Cody Rizzo to center and Craig Cooper to right. The only Irish position players that remained in the game were Steve Andres, who moved from catcher to right field, and Javi Sanchez, who started the game at second base in place of the injured Steve Sollmann. 
RED BULL GIVES YOU WIIINGS. OH, AND AGREAT OPPORTUNITY. 
Red Bull is on the lookout for aStudent Brand Manager (SBM). An SBM is a reliable and motivated student whose responsibilities include brand development on campus, market analysis and having a great time. 
Our expectations from you arc the foUowing: 
• 
You're going into your second year or higher at this school. 

• 
You have agood knowledge of when/where things arc happening. 

• 
You're interested in marketing and have good communication skills. 

• 
You have an entrepreneurial spirit and are outgoing. 


Does this sound like you? If so, go to: www.redbullu.com. 
Red Bull' 
~ 
ENERGY DRINK 
"I just felt like this team has worked too hard this year to get [in] this position," Mainieri said. "At that point, I felt like it was necessary to put our regulars in there to score some runs and play a little bit more steady defense, and it worked out well for us in the end." 
The move paid off. indeed, as the Irish put five runs on the board in the bottom half of the inning to take the lead. Sanchez had a two-run single in the inning, and Edwards cleared the bases with a three-run dou­ble. 
The Irish added a run in the sixth on a solo home run from Macri. They would get two more runs in the seventh on a two-run homer from designated hitter Matt Bransfield -his sixth in the last 12 games. 

Chicago State cut into the Irish lead in the eighth as sec­Irish scored seven runs in the runs scored. -and Kapala earned the save, ond baseman Jonathan Sakurai bottom half of the inning, get­"When I put the regulars in, I as he entered the game in the got a bases loaded walk, and ting four straight singles from thought they played pretty eighth with the Irish up only centerfielder Dave Walter was Rizzo, Macri, Sanchez and well," Mainieri said. "They hit three runs and stayed on to fin­hit by a pitch in the next at bat. Andres, and a grand slam from the ball hard and made the ish the game. Irish reliever Dan Kapala struck Cooper. plays. Matt Macri stayed real Notre Dame returns to action out the next batter, shortstop Macri finished the game 3-for-hot, and Cooper and Bransfield today hosting Valparaiso ( 4-17) Elliot Reyes, to end the inning 3 at the plate, and Edwards was had some great swings." at Frank Eck Stadium at 6 p.m. and keep the Irish lead at 8-5. 2-for-2 with four RBis. Sanchez Freshman pitcher Rico 
But that would be as close as added a 3-for-5 performance Bertucci picked up the win for Contact Chris Federico at the Cougars would get, as the with two RBis and a pair of the Irish -his first of the year cfederic@nd.edu 


TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS HAS SOMETHING NEW FOR THE 2004-2005 SCHOOL YEAR! 
4 Bedroom Townhome (accommodates up to 6 people) 2 Full Baths and 2 Half Baths Washer and Dryer in apartment! Covered Carports LARGE Fenced in Privacy Patio 
This new 2400 sq. ft. 4 Bedroom Townhome can accommodate up to 6 people and can be your new home next year! 
Be the first to live in our new and exciting floor plan! 
Call for details! Turtle Creek ApartiDents 272-8124 
Wednesday, April 7, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
into the competitive world of Bookstore Basketball. The game was close, tied 11-1 0 at halftime, until Team Thiz pulled away at the end for the win. 
"We held our own against Team Thiz, probably because their leopard print thongs didn't intimidate us like they had hopnd," said Something Sexy's leading scorer, Marin llinzpeter. 
She combined with Tiffney Gulick for the majority of Something Sexy's points, with small forward Kate Gales adding the occasional unexpected bas­ket. 
Nicole Garton was a premier defensive player, and Carolyn White was dominant in the paint for Something Sexy. 
"We're looking forward to the next round," Bott said. "We'll show oil" our thizzes a little more and maybe play some basket­ball." 
Sex, Drugs, and House 21, Feline Taxidermists 17 
It wasn't curiosity that killed the eat. It was promiscuity and drug addiction. 
Sex, Drugs, and House cele­brated its 21-17 victory over the Feline Taxidermist's during the second round of the Bookstore Basketball Tournament. 
Despite both teams app11aring to be evenly matched by their height and athleticism, it was I louse who triumphed in enthu­siasm as they had matching shirts, music blaring in the back­ground, "There's no way out ... S(lX, Drugs, and Ilouse," and players shouting after every 
point. Heading into halftime, House 
held  an  11-9 lead  over  the  
Taxidermists.  
Although  House  held  an  

advantage, they were aware of Taxidermists' determination to persevere. 
"They're penetrating hard," House player Grillin Eaton said. 
Beginning the second half, the Taxidermists began to break through the House defense as they closed within 17-16 towards the end of the game and took advantage of a series of turnovers. 
However, House came back to go on a 4-1 run to secure the victory. 
Despite a hard fought win, I louse did not seem too overcon­fident heading into the second round. 
"We're probably going to get wasted at the next game," Eaton said. "A ranked team will proba­bly annihilate us but we just wanted to do well in the first round." Craig Fencing 21, Pain Train 4 
This train proved to be pain­less as Craig Fencing dominated 21-4 in their second-round match-up. 
Despite the lopsided victory, Craig Fencing guard Alex Harty was impressed with their com­petitor's determination. 
"We took it a little easy on them, but they made a lot of jumpers.that most girls teams wouldn't make," Harty said. "In the second half they stopped scoring, but they never gave up." 
After two match-ups against two female teams, Craig Fencing must face a ranked opponent in the third round. 
"We had a great time these first two rounds, but now it is time to see how we match up against a ranked opponent," Craig Fencing player Tommy Forr said. 

Dolly Parton, Boat Club and Three Other Huge Busts 21, Tlto, Germaine, Marlon, Janet, and Another Guy that Takes a Lot of Charges 15 
Their own size couldn't stop the Dolly Parton, Boat Club, and Three Other Huge Busts. Neither could their opponents. 
The team dubbed Tito, Germaine, Marlon, Janet, and Another Guy that Takes a Lot of Charges succumbed to Dolly Parton's basketball prowess 21­15. 
Although Dolly Parton's play­ers hover around 5-foot-7, the team overwhelmed their oppo­nents, taking an early lead. 
"Seven early 3-point shots gave Dolly Parton an early lead -one which they never relin­quished. The team was ahead 11-5 at halftime and maintained a four-point lead throughout the game. 
The game grew physical as the Dolly Parton neared the win. 
"The big man got me!" screamed a Tito, Germaine, Marlon, Janet, and Another Guy that Takes a Lot of Charges play­er in response to Dolly Parton's senior Mike Goolsby's rebound­ing. 
Freshman David Dufl'ey's final basket ensured the win for Dolly Parton and extended their Bookstore Basketball run. The team is set to face law students next game. 
"We'll be bringing the big guns for next game," freshman Colin Laughlin said. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
Ohio 
continued from page 24 
out. It's just basic, basic team defense." 
Though Dobbie scored a game-high four goals on the day, her total accounted for half of her team's points, as the Irish severely restricted the rest of the Bobcat offense. 
The win stretches the team's perfect record to 9-0, and the Irish have won a school record 13 con­secutive games 
After a Bobcat goal, the Irish went into halftime with a 7-4 lead. After the break, the Irish scored five of the next six goals to provide all the margin they would need. 
The Bobcats never got clos­er than three points in the second half, but coach Tracy Coyne felt like the Irish did not establish complete control. 
"It's a win, but I just don't feel like we ever had a flow to the game," she said. "I wish we would have controlled it a little bit more." 
Coyne's refusal to sit on the 
laurels of current 
accomplishments 

dating back to is a sentiment
"We just need to 
last season. shared by her
keep pushing 
Kinnik feels that team as well. the team's suc­forward to the next "I think we did cess is the pretty well [but)
games.
fruition of confi­we could have dence that has done a lot bet­
Andrea Klnnlk
always there. ter," Kinnik said. "It's given us Irish mldflelder "We just need to 
some confi­dence but .I think we had that from the get-go," she said. "Now that we've actually been winning games, it's a tangible accom­plishment for us now." 
Notre Dame was slow to get out of the gate against the Bobcats, often stuck in its defensive end. Ohio's sus­tained attack kept the Irish offense at bay, but the Bobcats trouble scoring as well. 
With the game tied at two, the floodgates opened when midfield/defender Kassen Delano put the ball in the back of the net with 17:54 left to go in the half. Notre Dame then scored four of the next five goals to extend its advan­tage. 
keep pushing for­

ward to the next games and not focus on our rankings or what our record is." 
And that is the type of lead­ership that Coyne feels makes this team special and capable of achieving even more as the season progresses. 
"I've been coaching for a long time and sometimes there's that intangible that you recognize in a great team. and I think we have that," she said. "We have the athleti­cism, the speed, the heart, but most of all we have the lead­ership and the desire to get it done." 
Contact Matt Mooney at mmooney@nd.cdu 


Softball DH vs. svracuse Saturdav, Aoril10 DH@11AM& 1PM 
Baseball DH vs. Boston College Saturdav, April10 @12:05 & 2:05 PM 

\,I
"'""" 
-First 250 fans will receive amini baseball bat 

C) sponsored hv South Bend Tribune~ 
tailgating nanv between games 
()' . 

••••• Irish Athletics ..... 
' 
Irish Baseball vs. Valparaiso Wednesdav, April7 @6:05PM 
Baseball DH vs. St. John's Mondav, April12 @ 12:05 & 2:05 PM 


-"Brown Bag It at the Eck" 
-First 250 Notre Dame Facuhv ~ and Stan in attendance will receive asandwich sponsored bv 


-Notre Dame Facultv 
and Stan 
Appreciation Dav ~ 

page 22 Wednesday, April 7, 2004
The Observer+ SPORTS 


-
sTUDENT VALUE MENU 
One small Cheese pizza &5 one order of Cheesy Bread
1-topping pizza. 
or Domino's Dots™. 

One medium, 1-topping 
pizza &one order of Bread 6 Two Small Cheese Pizzas. Sticks or Cinna Stix®. 
Five Buffalo Wings & an
One small, 1-topping 
order of Bread Sticks
3 
pizza &a 20 oz. Coke®. 7 
or Cina Stix®. 

One small Cheese pizza & One order of Cheesy
8
5 Buffalo Wings. Bread & Domino's Dots™. 
r'..A-­
NOTRE IVISA .I
~~--·­
We accept credit and debit cards at no extra charge. All

271-0300 
personal checks require a 50¢ surcharge. 


Holiday 
continued from page 24 
back in 2002, Willingham's first season at Notre Dame. and helped the team to a 10­3 record and a No. 17 rank­ing. He struggled early last season. however, going 1-2 to start the season and officially being replaced by Quinn starting with Notre Dame's fourth game of the year, against Purdue. 
With Quinn running the team's offense, Holiday began to contribute as a wide receiver, and received two starts at the position during the team's games against Stanford and Syracuse. 
Last year, Holiday caught two passes for 13 yards, but also contributed as a blocker on numerous plays. His role with the team figures to be larger this season. 
"Hopefully we can get him geared up to where he can focus and put all of his atten­tion on being a receiver and making a major contribution to our football team in that regard," Willingham said. "Even on special teams, he could be our returner ­maybe our punt returner or even kickoff returner." 
The Irish coaches hope that allowing Holiday to focus pri­marily on the wide receiver position will allow him to put all of his attention at improv­ing at the position. 
"You kind of have to let him play the wide receiver," Irish offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick said. "If you go back and split the two it's not fair because he's not going to benefit and get the full learn­ing experience at receiver." 
Holiday was primarily recruited by Davie because of his foot speed, and the wide receiver is a position where he feels he will be most able to use those talents. Former Notre Dame player Arnaz Battle made a similar transi­tion, starting the 2000 season at quarterback before seeing his season end due to a wrist injury in the second game of the year. 
He returned to the team in 2001 as a wide receiver and contributed, but it wasn't until his senior season in 2002 that Battle really showed his talent. Battle led the team in receiving that year, collecting 58 receptions for 786 yards and five touch­downs. 

"[Watching Battle make a similar transition] definitely helps," Holiday said. "It also helps that I've been in the system a year longer than he had. 
"But to see what he's done 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd. .-dc 
Belles 
continued from page 24 

responded in the third when Audrey Gajor began the inning with a double to right center. 
Bridget Grall walked and Angie Ellison singled, loading the bases for Laura Heline who knocked in two runs on a fielder's choice. 
Calvin scored another run in the fourth to tie the score at 2. 
But the Belles showed why they have been winning as of late by coming back with two more of their own runs in the bottom half of the inning. 
An Erin Sullivan double along with two more doubles by Gajor and Grall scored two runs and put the Belles ahead for good. 
They added one more run in the sixth when Sullivan came home on a Calvin throwing error. 
For the game, Kate Sajewich pitched well, going all seven innings and only giving up two runs. 
In game two of the double­header, the Knights jumped out first again with a run in the bottom of the first. 
After that, neither team was able to put any runs on the scoreboard until the top of the sixth. 
Saint Mary's finally got its bats going when Ellison dou­bled to left and Laura Heline followed two batters later with another double. 
Ellison came home to give the Belles their first run in the nightcap. 
After holding Calvin score­less in the bottom of the sixth, the Belles pounded out two more in the seventh to take their first lead of the game. 
Sullivan started off with a single and advanced to sec­ond on an error. 
With two outs, Grall came to the plate and delivered with an inside the park home run, making the score 3-1 in favor of the Belles. 
Things looked very promis­ing for a Saint Mary's double­header sweep until disaster struck in the bottom of the seventh. 
Calvin opened the inning with a double to right center. This was followed by a Saint Mary's error. placing runners on the corners with no outs. 
A steal by the runner on first and then a sacrifice fly cut the score to 3-2. 
A pinch hitter was called in for the Knights who belted a two-run homer that ended the game with Saint Mary's losing 4-3. 
The loss dropped Libby Wilhelmy to 4-7 on the sea­son. 
The Belles' next game comes on Thursday at 3:30 
p.m. as they take on Hope College. 
Saint Mary's has two more conference doubleheaders left and cannot afford any more losses if they wish to qualify for the fourth and last playoff spot. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 




Wednesday, April?, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 30 Liberate 61 Morlocks' vic­tims in "The
1 5-Across handle 31 Walked over 
Time Machine" ·5 Sharp weapon, 33 Butchers' offer-
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: David Frost, Francis Ford Coppola,
62 Fragrant oil

slangily ings Billie Holiday, James Gamer 63 Does some tai­
9 Rope fiber 35 Message, part 2 
Happy Birthday: You've got what it takes to be successful. If you weren't 14 Mozart compo-39 Doings of feeling sorry for yourself the past couple of years and worked diligently sition 64 Can blemish pursuing your dreams, you will start to reap the rewards. The time has come to 
loring 
Hercules 

be proud of yourself and your efforts. Get in the game and be confident that
15 Animal with a 40 Table section 
you can do whatever needs to be done to reach your highest potential. Your scut DOWN numbers: 5, 7, 14, 23, 34, 41.
41 Cross to bear 16 Shiraz native 1 Things to kick
42 Mother of Horus ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may be fooling yourself about your17 Start of ames-2 "Am too!" rejoin­abilities. Don't make unreasonable promises. A poor reputation will result if
44 1938 Physics 

you get yourself into a position that makes you look irresponsible. ••••• Nobelist TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Your best efforts will unfold through real-estate 
sage on a der 
Lincoln Center 
3 Cinco de Mayo opportunities. Residential moves will be to your advantage. Family members
T-shirt 49 Sword con-
event may not agree with your plans. • • 
queror

19 Honor, in acad-GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Be cautious when dealing with colleagues. Don't
4 Tear to shreds 

erne 50 Aware of let situations get out of control. Be prepared to use your intellectual charm to 5 Round at a bar, get what you want. Compliments will help you win favors. •••• 20 See 13-Down 51 Word process-CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have an abundance of energy. Immerse
maybe

ing command yourself in a work-related project where you will receive the biggest payback. 
21 Wedding recep­
6 Keep ... 
tion ritual 52 Lama 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your energy will surprise others. Go after your goals 
7 Tick off

23 Clan emblems 54 Babar's queen wholeheartedly. Don't be afraid to include co-workers in your efforts. Your a Discharged, as achievements will be great if you focus carefully. •••
24 T-men, e.g. 55 Spiral-horned 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): If you work quietly and behind the scenes, much
gases

antelope can be achieved. Do not get involved in other people's affairs. Creative work 9 Eliot's Marner will bring the highest rewards. Detail will give you the edge. •• • 
25 Cathedral city 
57 End of the mes­

28 Great balls of LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't spend too much on your lover or on luxury
10 S. & L. offerings

fire sage items that you really don't need. Travel will be rewarding as long as you go 59 Tubular pasta 11 Sweet wine places that will offer a certain amount of knowledge. ••••
29 "The Immoralist" 32 Soprano in ''The 39 Prune 53"_ Karenina" 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have demands put on you at home.
author so Jam-pack 12 What's more Barber of 
Try to be patient and do what's necessary as quickly as possible. There is no
43 Zigzag, e.g.
13 With 20-Across, Seville" point in arguing. Concentrate on the end result. •• 45 Smoothed out 54 Secretive sort SAGITTARIUS' (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll learn valuable information if you
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE receive a 34 Stymie 
are open to other ways of doing things. Travel will be the key to knowledge.
35 What a groom ***** 
honor 

55 Rater of m.p.g. CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): An unrealistic view of your financial ·­18 Cage-wheel figure
may groom 47 Women's prison 
situation will lead to overextending yourself. Be careful not to get involved in 36 Plentiful joint ventures that have little chance of being successful. •••
runner 

48 "Looky tllere!" 56 Court cry AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Disappointments in partnerships may set you
37 John

22 One-named off. You should spend time taking care of legal matters and contracts. Put your
Passes 50 Grayer, maybe
~..;..,...~.;..+.;.+:;;.~ singer energy into work rather than your personal life. ••• 
38 Realtor's abbr. 51 Appears to be 58 Bonanza find PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take care of red-tape issues involving --~~~m~ 24 opera that government agencies and institutions. Update your personal documents.Ill inspired the Relationships will be exceptionally good if you pamper your mate. •• • 
T-shirt slogan For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
Birthday Baby: You are a real concern; when it comes time to go to bed,
credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
26 Popular jeans 

you'll be off and running until you're sure that you've not only tired yourself B-=++.±,.r..;-r,.;..t 27 Sycophant's Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday out but your parents as well. You will entertain others throughout your life with crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. your playful quick wit and a desire to be recognized.
word Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

f-:-+:+.::-1 29 Statehouse Need advice? Try Eugenia's website at www.eugeniala.rt.com
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
V.I.P. 

Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
L.;;..L..;;;..L..;...I 
30 Pro solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
~ 

I'VE ADDED MUMBLING 
I GET THE BENEFITS OF !e 

UM ... I DIDN'T AND PEEVISHNESS TO 
APPEARING KNOWLEDGE-~ 

HEAP.. WHAT MY WORK-AVOIDANCE ARSENAL. 
sHEEEESHIH 
\I/ 



fiVES BRETT CAMPBELL & DAN ZYCHINSKI 
Early round Bookstore Basketball definitions: 





"Athlete"
"Sports brink"
"Endorsements"
"Uniform" 

HENRI ARNOLD .·' 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, 
r·~c7~~~·~r 
rJ J
1 ±_ 
C2004 Tribune Media Servicaa,lnc. All Rlghta ReseJVed 
TESCA 
WILDEM 
NEE=DEO BY THE PRETZEL-MAKERS
I I I 
TO INCREASE 
www jurrbte com 
SAL-ES.
t
RYNWIT ~ 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J I ( I I

c.......£L_...L._Do...~~~::;;:~ suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

A rI I ) "( I I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: SKULK HOUSE WHITEN BLOODY Answer: When the fight was over, the boxer ended up licking-HIS WOUNDS 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for· one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City _____________ State _______ Zip.___________ 

.----------------------------------------------------------­
THE 0BSER\'ER 
PORTS
Wednesday, April 7, 2004 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Dealing with change 
Holiday comfortable converting to wide receiver position 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Ediror 
Changing positions is never easy for a player. For Carlyle Holiday, it's been even more difficult, having to move from being the team's starting quarterback to a receiver who hardly ever saw any passes last season. 
Holiday has been practicing this spring as a full-time receiver, completely phasing out any repetitions at the quarterback position. Brady Quinn wrested control of the position away from Holiday last season, and the sen­ior knows the team is basically Quinn's now. 
"[The coaches and I] have discussed every­thing and if things go as we expect in the spring, then I think there's going to be no need for me to go back [to playing quarter­back]." Holiday said. "If any situations come up things might change but right now we're just hoping everything goes to plan." 
Holiday is making his second major transi­tion of his college career. Recruited as an option quarterback to run former head coach Bob Davie's offense, Holiday was forced to change gears to run coach Tyrone Willingham's pro-style-based offensive sys­tem. 
"It's been difficult having -to continuously change roles, but it's expected in. college sports," Holiday said. "Before I got here my high school coach told me that things can change everyday, and I just tried to be pre­pared when things happen and to be able to take advantage of those opportunities." 
Holiday was the team's starting quarter-
see HOLIDAY/page 22 


BooKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIII 
Field narrowed down in early rounds 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sporrs Writer 

The NBA it was not, but Tuesday's Team Thiz!Something Sexy matchup was everything one would expect from a first­round bookstore basketball 
. game. A sense of humor and good­natured playfulness was the mood at the McGlinn courts as five men wearing visible thongs ("thizzes") took on five girls in green togas. Although Team Thiz beat Something Sexy 21-15, the game was enjoyed by both sides. "This is our third year for Team Thiz and we were hoping for a win this year," said cap­tain Mike Bott. "The biggest thing was that we give the peo­ple what they want to see. We were a little disappointed in our 
halftime show but hopefully next round will be better." 
Nicolas Lopez, Carlos Cabral, Mike Kirsch and Matt Lafrotta rounded out Team Thiz's deep lineup. Cabral was a force inside as center, with Lafrotta and Lopez providing quick points in transition and Kirsch solid in all areas. 


The freshmen of Something Sexy celebrated their first foray 
see BOOKSTORE/page 21 
SMC SOFTBALL Belles split two games with Calvin 
Belles' four-game winning streak comes to an end 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sporrs Writer 

The Belles' winning streak 
finally came to an end 
Tuesday, but not before they 
were able to hand Calvin its 
first MIAA loss of the season. 
The Knights came into the 
game with a record of 4-0 in 
conference play and in sec­
ond place behind Alma 
College. 

The Belles defeated Calvin 
5-2 before falling 4-3 in the 
second game of the double­
header. 

Last year, Saint Mary's 
dropped both games to 
Calvin, losing 11-2 and 5-3. 
Splitting the pair lets the 
Belles improve to 11-13 over­
all with a 4-4 record in the 
conference. They are cur­
rently in fifth place and have 
one more loss than fourth 
place Albion. 

Calvin got on the board (irst scoring one run in the first .inning. However, the Belles 
see BELLES/page 22 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 

·Irish defeat Ohio for ninth victory 
By MATT MOONEY Sporrs Writer 

Mix eight parts balanced offence with eight parts stingy defense, and the result is a recipe for success good for nine servings. . 
The third-ranked Irish (9-0) used the same formula they have employed throughout the season to beat the Ohio Bobcats (5-4) Tuesday afternoon by a 13-8 score. Eight different play­ers tallied goals for the Irish, led by midfielder Meredith Simon's three scores. Five other players had two or more points for Notre Dame. 
The defense continued its subjugation of opposing offens­es -holding Ohio witqout a goal for over 16 minutes during one second-half stretch. Stifling yet another opposition offense, Notre Dame kept its seventh opponent under double-digit goals. Only California and Virginia Tech have managed to chalk up more than 10 points against the Irish. 
However, talented Ohio fresh­man Dana Dobbie provided a challenge to the miserly Notre Dame defenders. Having scored 11 goals in her last two games, veteran midfield Andrea Kinnik shadowed the rookie all game. 
"She's a very good player," Kinnik said, "But it was a whole team effort to try and keep her 
see OHIO/page 21 
SMC GOLF
., (I) BASEBALl 
ND SOfTBAll 

NCAA WOMEN'S BB 
MLB

SMC TENNIS 
LLI 

Connecticut 70,
Saint Mary's at
Notre Dame 15, 
Notre Dame 4, 3 

Saint Mar/i's 
T~ers 7,
B ue Jays 3
Purdue 2, 4 

Tennessee 61
z Chicago St. 5 
finishes fi h 
Albion
li: Co) 
=:5 

The Detroit Tigers are
The Belles face their 
The Huskies won
The Irish split a non-

The Belles were led by 
The Irish survive an 
off to their best start in
conference series against 

Stefanie Simmerman's 
MIAA rival in a key 
their third straight
early scare from the 
national championship. 
18 seasons.
the Boilermakers. 

168 over the two rounds. 
match.
Cougars, but go on to an 
== 
easy victory.t:l.ti 
page 18 
page 14
page 19 

page 19 
page 19
page 20

(I) 









