
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

Mystery, faith surround Opus Dei 
Editor's Note: This is the first article in a two-part series exploring South Bend's Opus Dei community. 
By JANICE FLYNN NewsWrirer 
The DaVinci Code, the contro­versial American novel that has topped best-seller lists for well over a year, has stirred conver­sation and controversy about Christian history and theology, generating particular interest in an organization that several Notre Dame students and facul­ty belong to -Opus Dei. 

In casting the novel's villain as an Opus Dei member, author Dan Brown heaped more confu­sion onto the lay organization whose publicity in the last sev­eral years has spanned the GEOFF MATIESON/The Observer 
Opus Dei members gather for dinner on a recent evening at Windmoor, the men's center on 



Photo counesy of www.castle-point.com Three recent fires at Castle Point, a popular student housing complex, caused damages and sparked investigations. 
Officials investigate arson as a cause 
By KATE ANTONACCI and 
CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Writers 
Three recent fires at Castle Point Apartments have left authorities searching for answers, after four Notre Dame seniors were left with an unliv­able apartment and other areas of the complex were badly dam­aged by smoke. 
While two of the fires were minor -flaring in trash cans in separate community laundry rooms the nights of Oct. 11 and 12 -the third fire, which occurred the ·afternoon of Oct. 14, did significant damage to several apartments, according to Clay Township Fire Chief Tim Schab bel. 
The first two fires have been classified as suspicious, and the third is under open investigation, Schabbel said. 
"We haven't eliminated any possibilities," he said, adding the possibilities include arson, other suspicious activity or an acci­
dent. · Authorities including Clay Fire Marshal Dave Cherrone, the office of the Indiana state fire marshal and the office of the St. 
Joseph County sheriff are piecing together the details of the fires through interviews and lab 
investigation, Schabbel said. It could not be determined whether the same party was 
see FIRES/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

NDto offer li111ited flu shot supply 
Nationwide concerns lead to revised plan 
By KATIE PERRY and CLAIRE 
HEININGER 
News Writers 
In light of the severity of the nationwide flu vaccine shortage, Notre Dame has decided to only offer vaccinations to high-risk individuals -reversing a previ­ous plan to also vaccinate the general population of students on a first-come. first-serve basis. 
Although students were informed through an Oct. 13 e­mail from Heath Services direc­tor Ann Kleva that shots would be available. the University real­ized it could not in good con­science offer vaccinations to healthy students when the natiorial community is strapped to cover all high-risk individuals, said University spokesman Matt Sturin. 
The initial plan was a "natural reflex" on the part of Health Services to follow its mission of providing care to students. Sturin said, but was changed once Notre Dame officials had a chance to fully absorb the importance of the Centers For Disease Control guidelines about who is eligible to receive shots from the nation's dwindling sup­ply. 
"When we gained a full cog­nizance of the guidelines, we realized our program was too generous," Sturin· said. "Every instance [of vaccination) that goes outside those guidelines takes away from those [high-
see VACCINE/page 4 

CAMPftJ:G:t'f ?004 
ND participation ·spikes as election day nears 
Students campaign in Michigan, South Bend Mock election gauges students' views 
votes.
By MICHAEL BUSK "The Battle Creek rally was a . By PAUL SPADAFORA 
News Writer 
big success," said Sarah Staley, 
News Writer 

president of Saint Mary's College 
Although voter registration 
Democrats. "We went door-to-. 
With the presidential electiondeadlines have passed, political­door for about three hours, offer­less than a week away, the Notrely-active students are working ing people literature and asking if 

Dame campus will have the

hard before the election to get they might need help in getting to 
chance to see where students

out the vote, both in South Bend the polls on Election Day ... Face­
stand on the candidates inand in swing states with local to-face contact really drives 

Tuesday's Mock Election. 

borders. 
home the importance of the elec­Several student media groupsApproximately 40 members of tion, and hopefully, our work on will sponsor the event, including
the College Democrats from 
Sunday will influence a few more NDTV. WFVI. WSND andNotre Dame, Saint Mary's and people to get out to vote on Nov. 
Scholastic magazine. Results and

Holy Cross traveled Sunday to 
2." 
election statistics will be releasedcampaign for Senator John Kerry 

Colin Taylor, Notre Dame 
in Battle Creek. Mich., a key area in a swing state with 17 electoral see CAMPAIGN/page 6 see ELECTION/page 6 


Wednesday, October 27, 2004 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Are you serious? 
If this was your reaction after the 
infamously cursed Boston Hed Sox 
advanced to the World Series. 
you're not alone. 
Not only did the Hed Sox advance 
to the World 
Series, they did it Steve Coyer 
against the New 
York Yankees 
and after being Sports Wire 
down 0-3 in a 
Editor 
best of seven 
series. 
No baseball team had ever come 
back from such a deficit and for the 
Hed Sox to do it defied all odds. I 
could go on about the details of the 
monumental upset but you can find 
out about that in any sports page or 
on ESPN.com. 
So rather then tell you what hap­pened to the Hed Sox, I'm going to take a stab at explaining the bizarre phenomenon. 
My theory begins with a key assumption. It is that the Hed Sox indeed are a cursed team. After trading Babe Huth to the Yankees, the tE\alll has yet to win a World Series even after coming painfully dose. 
The Hed Sox still have to win the World Sr.ries to break the curse but this team has all the ingredients to shatter the curse forever. 
Where do I start? One of the keys to breaking the curse comes from a friend of Pedro Martinez. The Boston pitcher has been seen with a midget sidekick who Martinez believes has magical powers... apparently his little friend does. 
And what about .Johnny Damon and his caveman long hair that has been a constant throughout the playoffs. Damon called the Hed Sox a "bunch of idiots" and this charac­teristic has been vital to the team's curse busting efforts. 
Besides being idiots, the Bed Sox could also be characterized as lazy and not the most clean cut bunch. Manny Hamirez jogs to first on sin­gles and Kevin Millar had a three inch long beard extending from his chin. 
Even their manager Terry Francona admits that team resem­bles a college fraternity. 
And this is the central point of my theory; the Hed Sox aren't serious. They arc overcoming an 86 year old curse and defeating far more pol­ished and professional teams (like the Yankees). 
Whether it is due to Pedro Martinez's friend, the team's unique facial hair. or simply a lack of seri· ousness. I can't say, but I do know that whatever they are doing it has worked. 
Don't get me wrong, the Hed Sox are a very talented baseball team but their many quirks have given them an extra boost this season. 
And if said "are you serious?" while watching the Hed Sox surprise the world. I think I know how the team might respond ... 
No, we definitely are not serious. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Steve Coyer at scoyer@nd. edu 
CLARIFICATION 
In the Oct. 25 In Focus: Election 2004 issue ofThc Observer, the information on page 8 explaining the candidates' stances on various issues was nor attributed due to a production error. The information was provided by The Associated Press. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU FROM A SWING STATE AND WILL YOU BE VOTING? 







Lindsay Wright Rachel Jurowskl Andy Mackrell Brendan Donahue Suzie Perea Kyle Karches 
freshman sophomore freshman freshman senior freshman McGlinn Pangborn Dillon Dillon off-campus Keough 
"! don't live in a "Well, Arizona "Yeah [I'm from] "Well, I live in "Yes, [I'm from] "Yes, I live in 

swing state. I'm is bac.k and Pennsylvania from Texas. " forth, but I am and !just planning on dropped my voting." ballot in the 
Welcome home party not so welcome 
DALLAS -A j'udge wel­comed a former fugitive back to her courtroom with balloons, streamers and a cake before sentencing him to life in prison. 
"You just made my day when I heard you had finally come home," Judge Faith Johnson told Billy Wayne Williams, who had been convicted in absentia of aggravated assault after he disappeared a year ago. "We're so excited to see you, we're throwing a party for you." 
Williams, 53, who has a criminal record dating to 
mail." 

Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Ohio and I am so voting . and I already definitely 
Republican won't make much ofa difference. " 


Thai man who tried to smuggle into Belgium two small eagles infected with the deadly bird flu virus was undergoing medical tests Sunday. but appeared to be in good health, offi­cials said. 
Authorities detained the man after a manhunt, and took him to a hospital in the northern port city of Antwerp. 
"It's precautionary. He hasn't complained of any symptoms," Rene Snacken of the Public Health Institute told HTBF televi­sion. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
the 1970s, was accused of choking his girlfriend. He failed to appear for his trial last November and was finally captured Thursday at a gas station in subur­ban Arlington. 
Before he was brought into the courtroom on Monday, the judge directed staff members as they placed balloons around the courtroom. A cake was decorated with his name and one candle to signify the year he spent on the lam. 
Man smuggling birds released from hospital 
BHUSSELS, Belgium -A 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 

0::: 
LLI 
:I: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
c( (.) 



HIGH LOW 

71 
55 

0 
..J HIGH 62 HIGH 60 LOW 50 LOW 48 
did vote." voting. " 
IN BRIEF 
The Student Union Board presents Okdomcrfest tonight from 7 to 10 p.m. at Legends. Free German Chocolate cake and $2.75 Brautwurst with sauerkraut will be served. as well as German drink specials for those 21 and over. Live music will be provided by the Strudel Meisters German polka group from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. 
An informational meeting for Camp Kcscm. a week-long summer camp for children with a parent who has or had cancer. The camp is organized by Notre Dame students. and the meeting will be -held tonight from 8:30 to 10 p.m. in the CSC Auditorium. 
Professor William O'Hourke. Janet McNally and Jayne Marek from Notre Dame's Creative Writing Program will read selections from their work from 7 to 8 p.m. tonight at Lula's Cafe. at 1631 Edison Hoad in South Bend. 
Notre Dame alumni who majored in history will talk about their experiences and career opportunities Thursday from 7 to 8 p.m. in room G-20 Flanner Hall. All Arts and Letters Majors are welcome. The discussion is sponsored by the History Club, History Department and the Career Center. 
JACKED! The Halloween Dance will be held from 10 
p.m. to 1 a.m. Thursday night on the second floor of the LaFortune ballroom. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-rna it del ailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

62 47 

HIGH LOW 

Wednesday, October 27, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Panel discusses U.S. foreign policy in African countries 

By JEANNINE PRIVAT News Wmer 
A range of speakers addn~ssed various issues concerning the relationship between the United States and Africa in an "Africa. Trade. Debt & the U.S. l'n~sidential Elections" panel Tuesday evening. 
The first speaker. Brian Davis. the Midwest Field Coordinator for Debt Aids Trade Africa (DATA), analyzed the Bush administra­tion's actions with regard to Africa. Davis said that as Africa has grown in importance with n~gard to tlw United States' for­eign policy, presidents have been more willing to pass legislation and discuss A!hcan issues. 
President George W. Hush has done more than any other presi­dent to aid and c£ddress African issues, according to Davis, with initiatives like PEPFAR (!'resident's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relid) and thn Millennium Challenge established in March 2002. 
I lowever. Davis added that even though the Bush administration has donP this, it has not given its initiatives high importance. While tlw administration aimed to spend $5 billion per year by 2006 for the Millennium Challenge, this yrar's budget has allocated a mere $1.12 billion. And though Bush has spent more than any other leader, with regard to relief aid as a percentage of a nation's wealth. Davis said the United States "ranks dead last in the wealthiest 22 countries." 
Father Hob~\rt Dowd, assistant professor of political science, said the kind of attention paid to Africa is more important than the amount of attention. Since Sept. 11, 2001, the administration has focused more on Africa, because some in the administration have come to view Africa as "a poten­tial breeding ground for terror­ism," Dowd said. 
He also emphasized the impor­tance of fair and free trade, as well as commended the African Growth and Opportunity Act and Millennium Challenge Act. However, Dowd was wary con­cerning the strengthening of mili­taries and police forces through aid in certain African countries. 
"If these [military and police] initiatives focused on consolidated democracies, that would be one thing, but they're not," he.said. 
Dowd said he would be "con­cerned about a second Bush administration without Colin Powell," who Dowd views as the strongest advocate for African issues within the current adminis­tration. Dowd stated that he believed it is important to look at who will be in the prospective administrations surrounding the victor on Nov. 2. 
Isaac S. D. Lappia, an M. A stu­dent in Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies and former director for Amnesty International Sierra Leone, focused on three key issues: the death penalty, the small arms trade and the ICC. Lappia spoke of "the blind following" by many African countries of the United States and their policies. 
With regard to the death penal­ty. Lappia said, "as long as America continues to kill, they [African countries] will not abol­ish killing." 

While the United States con­ducts trials for criminal acts and then sentences the guilty to death, in some African countries the death penalty is used to obliterate political opposition. he said. 
Lappia also warned of the prob­lems with the United States' policy of small arms trade with African nations, where many small arriis find their way into the hands of rebels and guerilla armies. He called for an International Trade Treaty with more strenuous regu­lations for small arms trading. Lastly, Lappia touched on the topic of the ICC, International Criminal Court. He stated the case of his home country, in 
which the United States offered ·Sierra Leone $25 million to agree to a bilateral impunity agreement protecting United States nationals from b.eing surrendered by Sierra 
Leone to the ICC. 
"[It was] unfair to use money to 
buy freedom for Americans," he 
said. 
The last speaker, Dolores T. 
Connolly, CEO of Sterling 
Engineering, Inc. and a board 
member of Concern USA, spoke of 
the disconnect between 
Americans and the citizens and 
problems of the Third World. 
"Obesity is our major health 
problem and I'm here to talk 
about hunger," she said. ·with the 
Millennium Challenge Act the 
United States signed on to gradu­
ally increase aid up to .7 percent of its GNP in the next couple of years, but is "dragging in this area," according to Connolly. Of the eight Millennium Challenge goals, she emphasized the impor­tance of eradicating extreme poverty and hunger. achieving universal primary education. pro­moting gender equality and the empowerment of women and the development of a global partner­ship for development. 
"The Millennium Challenge is building bridges that have never been built before," she said. 
Dowd summarized by saying that it is important to stay true to the standards the countries have set. 
Contact Jeannine Privat at jprivat@nd.edu 




Volunteer Rock the Vote Calendar 
Registration for Urban Plunge Ends November3


Opportunities 
October 27 
Online registration for the Urban Plunge, a one-credit LaSalle Academy "Whom are you supporting in next week's presidential election 
experiential learning course designed to expose students to the The LaSalle Academy needs and why?" 
sites and sounds ofpoverty. closes on November 3. rucors Mondays chru Thursdavs The Irish Inquisirion with Jim McKenna, Christina Wolbrechr and from 3:00-4:30 p.m. Smdencs' in Bill Kirk. 
During the 48-hour immersion over January break students the gifted and talenced educa­
will have the opportunity. to meet people affected by povertyOak Room in South Dining Hall at 7:30pm.

tional program need help with 
as well as those working to eradicate it. For information and to ruroring, especially with support, 
apply online, go to http://centerfocsodalconcerns.nd.edu.organizational assistance, and 
Election 2004 Discussion with Father Scully 
Stanford Hall at 8:00pm. 
encouragement. Contact Vice Principal Otha Reese at 283­

ISSLP 2~05 Applications Due

October 28
7509. 
Novemh~r 1 · 

Physical Education with "What's a Catholic: to Do? The Environment, the Economy and Little Kids Moral Issues in the 2004 Election" 
Learning agreements and application forms for the Interna­A Faculty Panel including Kristin Shrader-Frechette, Charles Rice tional Summer S¢rvice Learning Program are available at theCovenant Christian School and Todd David Whitmore on the diverse issues facing Catholics as Center for Social Concerns. Applications can also be download­needs volunceers to help work they head to the polls on November 2. Sponsored by the progr<~m in ed and printed from website! http://centerforsocialconcerns. 

with kindergarten and first Catholic Social Teaching. 
nd.edu. Please turn in applications to the CSC.

graders. Volunteers for their Montgomery Theatre of LaFortune Student Center at 12:00 pm.
physical education developmental 
The I$SLPis .~in 8 week S!J.mmer service-learning opportunity program will be needed on 
and academic rourse THEO 360B: Summer Service Learn-Mondays and Wednesdays from November2 
ing: Interna,tiot1al. Progratnindudes: TravellRootn and Board 

l: 15-3:00pm. If interested, 
Expenses, Tuition Scholarship,'4.0 credits in Theology, Prepara­contact Alicia Albright at 273-Election Watch ·... tion and Re~.Etltty classes. &>r further questions, please contact 
1691. . 
Rachel Tomas Morgan at Tom:asMorgan.2@nd.edu ing election results on the large screen television of the Coleman­Redistribution ofStippljes Morse lounge. Snacks will be provided. and Equipment 
Join others from the Notre Dame community to watch the incom­
Coleman-Morse Lounge from 6:00 pm-12:00 am. 

"America Needs a Change" Rally 

The Elkhart-St. Joseph 
Hcadstarr Agency has requested November4 Progressive Student Alliance, in collaboration with the College volunteers to help them sort 
Democrats, Peace Coalition and a number ofsocial action groups, materials at the warehouse. "Post-Election Analysis: What Really Happened on November 2?" will hold a rally to raise rheir voices for political, economic and social They need help sorting and then Panelists include Susan Ohmer (American Studies & FIT), Robert change in this election season. Free hot chocolate and doughnuts will 
redistributing supplies to the new Schmuhl (Program in Journalism, Ethic.~ and Democracy), David be served. 
site. If interested, ple-<1se contact Campbell (Political Science) and Peter Quaranta (CSC's Rock the Donna Canter at her home 269-Yore srudent coordinator). When: Wednesday, October 27 at 5: 15-6:30 pm 684-5441. You can also email her 
Coleman Morse Lounge from 6:30 pm. Where: Fieldhouse Mall (next co Stonehenge):tr retnacdm@aol.com. 
Wednesday, October 27, 2004 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Linguistic expert talks of -word choice, gender 
By TRICIA de GROOT 
News Writer 
Hobin Tolmach Lakoll', a professor at University of Cal.ifomia, Berkeley usnd her expertise in linguistics to analyze tho progress toward equali­ty of opportunity for all people in the Unit11d States on Tuesday as part of the fourth Provost Distinguished Women Ler.ture Series. 
I~tkotl' began her lecture by intro­dueing her basic argument. "rodrawing the gender line in the sand" and then by explaining what linguist<> have to say about social changes. 
"I ~mguage is the means by which we understand the world and the way we communicate to one anoth­er what we believe the world to be like." Lakotl' said. 
Language functions, according to I.akotl', serve as a "universal donor" or medium especially with regard to the other social sciences and specifi­cally. gender discussions. Language basnd evidence is one way of mak­ing sense of social changes, said Lakon·. 
"We look at the situation of women in pmt by words that have come and gone." 
"Language is often the clearest way of understanding what is going on. what is working and what L<>n't working. and we can chart progress by what goes in and out of lan­guage," said I..akofl'. 
Shti then spoke more specifically on the implications that language has with regard to narratives. the 11111dia and the roles that they have playPd both in the past. present and will play in the future. Lakoff nar­rownd her focus further and said that "morr. and moro we are reliant on the media to be the medium of story telling" and that then novel TV sitcoms such as "I Love Lucy," gave "additional reinforcement of the post World War II message to tell women to get back home and stay back home." 
l.akotl' also spoke of the changes in academia and her own personal challenges upon entering the aca­demic world with no role models to 
guide her in her pursuit of an aca­
demic: career and how the same sit­
uation rang true with regard to law, 
medicine, and politics. 

She talked about the implications of the changes in the roles of women in the 1970s to 1990s and how these women were given more choices, pressures and ambiguities than there mothers had ever encountered. These same women fmmd themselves in time crunches, energy drains and identity crisis and sought to. quite reasonably. blame the women's movement for these situations they found themselves to b1l unprepared for. "People some­times turn on the women's move­ment as the evil genie of all of this," said Lakoff. 
Instead, according to Lakoff, they actually "experienced nostalgia for a past that, in fact, had never exist­ed." 
Lakoff gave detailed examples of the major changes for women in the 1970's and 1990's, including Roe v. Wade, Ms. Magazine, "Thelma and Louise" and even Hillary Rodham Clinton whose terms as first lady, according to Lakoff, "made a great deal of rethinking about gender roles." 
She concluded by showing the redrawing of the line in the present and illustrated this with examples such as Martha Stewart being sent to prison, the attitude toward Janet Jackson's "wardrobe malfunction," and the media treatment of Teresa lleinz Kerry. 
Lakoff then left the audience with· three unresolved questions relating to the present understanding of role-sharing in couples, equality between the sexes and fmally, the implications of starting off at a "lower level." 
The goal of the lecture series was established in order to create a number of small and large settings for faculty, staff, students and the community members to int,eract around some interesting topics, this one being the so called "gender line." 
Contact Tricia de Groot at pdegroot@nd.edu 
FoR RENT 
Spacious 4 bedroom 2.5 bath home 1 mile from ND CR/DR/Kitchen/3 season patio with built in Bar-B-Q $1800/month +deposit+ utilities 

57 4-339-1638 



University Hair Stylist 
1\ll Licensed Hair Stylists 

631·5144 
Full Service 9AM •9PM M·rnR 9AM • 7PM F 9AM·4PMSAT LA Fonune center Notre Dame. lndlana 46566 


we are aful~service salon that offers HaJrcuts •COlor · Perms •eyebrow Arches 
Vaccine 
continued from page 1 
risk] people." 
Health Services will offer shots to Notre Dame's high-risk individuals -defined as stu­dents and employees with chronic health conditions including diabetes, asthma or handle heavy phone traffic, Storin said. 
The nationwide shortage was prompted by the suspension of the manufacturing license of the Chiron Corporation .. a major flu vaccine provider. In response to the insufficient supply, both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's placed strict limi­tations on who could receive the shot. In past years, the two cines. 
"We expect that any increase in supplies later in the flu sea­son will be directed to clinics and other facilities that partic­ularly have high-risk popula­tions to serve; we do not think colleges and universities will be among those that receive tht~ added supplies," he said. 
A supply of FluMist -an alternative. intranasal influen­
acute allergies, organ trans­schools made flu shots avail­za vaccination -will be made plant donors and recipients, able to any student or staff per­available at a cost to the pregnant women, immuno­son desiring them. remaining University popula­suppressed individuals and Storin said he was unaware tion in early November, accord­University employees and of problems at Notre Dame in ing to Storin. Produced by retirees over the age of 65 -the past, as major national Medlmmune, a California­Thursday at the Joyce Center shortages are rare. based drug manufacture, sup­from 10 a.m: to 6 p.m. French drug manufacturer plies of FluMist will be limited 
Employees supplying direct Aventis-Pasteur announced last and require payment of a fee patient care to a chronically ill Wednesday that it has located by the vaccine recipient. person are also eligible. an additional 2.6 million doses Medlmmune wiH supply 1 to 2 
All these individuals will like­of the vaccine, which it will million doses of its vaccine to ly receive the vaccination, deliver to the United States this the American public. Storin said. January. This addition to the Storin was unsure whether 
"Even though we have dwindling U.S. stockpile leaves the FluMist supply would mert decreased the supply we origi­the country with 54 million the demand of the Notre Danw nally had in hand, we feel we doses, much lower than the community. have adequate vaccines to han­100 million doses needed to "We will have a limited sup­dle the high-risk needs," he satisfy American demal1d, ply but we arc hopeful it will be said. according to news reports from adequate for those who want 
The vaccines were obtained CNN. the FluMist," Storin said. from a reputable, independent Despite these recent develop­supplier in the Midwest, which ments, Storin said he does not Contact Katie Parry at asked that the University with­believe the University will kperry5@nd.edu, Claire hold its name because it cannot receive any additional vac-Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October 2J, 2004 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Amnesty calls for U.S. investigation 
LONDON -Amnesty International on Wednesday renewed its call for the United States to set up an independent investiga­tion of the abuse of prisoners in Afghanistan, at Guantanamo Bay and at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. 
The organization denied it was seeking to influence the U.S. presidential election with its 200-page report, but expressed disappointment the issue had not been prominent in the campaign. 
"We feel that this is the last chance to get it on the agenda of the candidates," Amnesty International spokeswoman Theresa Richardson said in London. 
Richardson added that six months had passed since the photographs. of Iraqi pris­oners being humiliated at the Abu Ghraib were first shown on U.S. television. "It's taken this long for. us to pull this report together," she said. 
India unsure of Kashmir proposal 
NEW DELHI -One day after Pakistan's president proposed a demilitarization of the violence-wracked Himalayan region of Kashmir, India's response was notably lukewarm, with an official making clear the proposal should not have been made first to reporters. 
Refusing to comment on the substance of the proposals, presented to journalists Monday by Pakistani President Gen. Pervez Musharraf, Indian External Affairs Ministry spokesman Navtej Sarna said they should have been raised through diplomatic channels. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Texas execution reprieve lifted 
HUNTSVILLE, Texas -A federal appeals court Tuesday lifted a reprieve that had blocked the scheduled execution of a man in a 1992 murder case in which the troubled Houston police crime lab allegedly mishan­dled evidence. 
Lawyers for condemned inmate Dominique Green went to the Supreme Court to try to save his life before he's set to die by injection Tuesday evening. 
U.S. District Judge Nancy Atlas ha'd blocked Green's execution after his attorneys argued that boxes of improperly stored and catalogued evidence kept by the Houston crime lab and recently discovered could con­tain information relevant to the case. 
U.S. supports Israeli withdrawal plan 
WASHINGTON -The White House praised the Israeli parliament's approval of removing settlements from Gaza and part of the West Bank as .a step forward in peacemaking with the Palestinians. 
'This disengagement plan has the potential of being historic and we see it as an important step in fulfilling President Bush's vision of two states living side-by-side in peace and security," White House spokesman Trent Duffy said in Dubuque, Iowa, where the president was campaigning. 
Approval by the Knesset, or parliament, came in Jerusalem after a stormy debate between supporters of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and critics of the pullback. 
LOCAL NEWS 



Indiana polls indicate close race 
INDIANAPOLIS -Two statewide polls 
show the governor's race between 
Democratic incumbent Joe Kernan and 
Republican challenger Mitch Daniels remains 
tight one week before Election Day. 
A South Bend Tribune/WSBT poll released 
Tuesday showed the race about even. 
Forty-eight percent of respondents said 
they would likely vote for Daniels if the elec­
tion were held that day, while 45 percent 

said they were more likely to vote for ·Kernan. 

Karzai wins Afghan presidency 
Interim leader declared official victor of country's first democratic election 
Associated Press 
KABUL, Afghanistan ­More than two weeks after Afghanistan's first presi­dential election, vote counting wrapped up Tuesday and interim leader Hamid K.arzai emerged with a resounding victory. 
With his inauguration to a five-year term a month away, the U.S.-backed Karzai already is under pressure to ditch his coali­tion with powerful war­
. lords and tackle a booming narcotics industry that has become a major economic force in one of the world's poorest nations. Officials declared the vote count complete Tuesday afternoon, giving some 1,500 weary staff at eight counting centers a well-earned rest in the middle of the Islamic fast­ing month of Ramadan. Investigators were still examining about 100 sus­peCt ballot boxes, but the election's chief technical officer said the count was effectively "over and done." "It's jus.t these last dribs and drabs to be approved," David Avery told The Associated Press. "It's real­ly nothing that can affect the outcome." Showing 98.4 percent of the votes counted, the Web site of the U.N .-Afghan election commission said Karzai had 55.5 percent of the votes, 39 points ahead of his closest rival, former Education Minister Yunus Qanooni. An estimated 8.2 million ballots were cast in the his­toric vote Oct. 9, a turnout that U.S. and Afghan offi­cials hailed as a nail in the coffin of the former ruling Taliban, whose threats to disrupt the election proved hollow. Karzai, 47, a member of the Pashtun community, the largest ethnic group in this diverse and often divided country, portrayed himself as the best candi­date to weld a unified Afghanistan. He also promised to dou­ble the income of Afghans 

and pursue a reformist agenda that can finally begin to deliver basic serv­ices such as health and education to people impov­erished by a quarter-centu­ry of fighting. 
So far, the country's re­emergence -cities such as Kabul and Kandahar are in the grip of a real estate boom -appears to be founded more on lucra­tive drug exports than the legal economy. 
Under pressure from the United States, Karzai is expected to announce a crackdown on refiners and traffickers who use Afghan opium poppies to supply most of the world's heroin. 
"His mind is made up to do something, finally," a Western official who advis­es the Afghan government on counternarcotics policy said on condition of anonymity. "They know that this government will not survive if they don't take action." 
Karzai must deal with the opium traffickers at the same time he grapples with regional leaders who still control much of the country with the help of private militias that have so far escaped a U.N.-spon­sored disarmament drive. 
Francese Vendrell, the European Union's special representative, said Karzai took an important step before the election by excluding Defense Minister Mohammed Fahim, a pow­erful warlord, from his presidential ticket and then sidelining the most influen­tial warlord in western Afghanistan, Ismail Khan. 
"He's now got a mandate to have a reformist govern­ment," Vendrell told British Broadcasting Corp. radio, adding that the United States and European nations would support his efforts. 
Election officials said for­mal confirmation of Karzai's victory could come by the weekend, when investigations into irregu­larities were expected to be complete and the elec­tion ruled "free and fair." 
Karzai would then have until his swearing-in in late November to think about how to reorganize his Cabinet, which now con­tains a string of former militia leaders who helped the United States drive out the Taliban in late 2001. 


Sniper sentenced to life in prison 
Associated Press 

SPOTSYLVANIA, Va. -Teenage sniper Lee Boyd Malvo accepted a d.eal Tuesday in which he avoided the death penalty and was s~n­tenced to life in prison without parole for one of 10 slayings that terrorized the Washington area in October 2002. 
Malvo, 19, is already serving a life sentence for another one of the killings, and dropped his appeals of that conviction in connection with Tu'esday's plea bargain. 
Malvo could still face a death penalty prosecution for other slay­. ings. 
Malva was sentenced Tuesday for the Oct. 11, 2002, killing of busi­nessman Kenneth Bridges. Under the plea deal, he also received an additional life sentence for the shooting of Caroline Seawell on Oct. 4, 2002. She recovered from her wounds'. 
Malvo's guilty plea took the form of an Alford plea, in which Malvo did not admit factual guilt but acknowledged the government hi;ts sufficient evidence to convict him. He cannot appeal the sentence. 
Malvo declined to make a state­ment before he was sentenced. Spotsylvania Commonwealth's Attorney William Neely said he 
consulted with the victims' families and they supported the plea bar­gain. 
"He's spending the rest of his life in a maximum security prison where he'll be locked down 23 hours a day, seven days a week for the rest of his life," Neely said. 
Malvo was convicted last year and sentenced to life in prison for the Oct. 14, 2002, murder of FBI analyst Linda Franklin, one of the sniper killings over a three-week· span in Maryland, Virginia and Washington, D.C. His accomplice, John Allen Muhammad, is on Virginia's death row for one of the slayings. 

Wednesday, October 27, 2004
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
"We're going to try to gauge [graduating] class." Leonard said. results. "I think that the freshman political sentiment on campus." While not the first student run ''I'm not sure that the people reading assignment [The
Election 

In order to make the election election on campus, this year's voting in the mock election are Vanishing Voter] is a good 
as representatiye of Notre Dame mock election marks the first one representative of voters as a description of what's happening 
as possible, the ballot does not run in recent years. whole. The willingness to go vote here." she said. 
Thursday. mirror that of any one state. "We had a student media in a mock election is already self Other students said they felt 
According to Melinda Leonard. "We dido 't just want to repli­retreat with all of the organiza­selecting for people with a much the mock election would increase 
an NDTV news producer, the cate the Indiana ballot, since this tions. and we were brainstorm-greater level of political partici­political interest on campus. 
mock election is designed to pro­is a national university." Franken . ing ideas of things we could all do pation." Mitchell said. "I think it's Junior Tyler Wilson said the 
duce as accurate a demographic said. "Nader, Bush and Kerry had together, and everyone thought a good ide.a, I just have some sight of students voting would 
picture of the student body as to be on the ballot, and we added this was a natural thing to do." reservations about it." help encourage others to cast a 
possible. "The turnout at other Libertarian candidate Michael Franken said. "Student media Sophomore Patrick Wood vote. 
campus events has been slightly Badnarik, since he is on most should run the event, considering expressed a similar concern "I think it will show that the 
skewed to a particular party, so ballots across the nation. how much real media is involved about the success of the mock students at Notn~ Dame do care 
we are hoping that this will pro­In addition to presidential can­in polling and election coverage." election. about national elections, and 
vide an accurate picture of the didates. the ballot also included Student reaction to the mock "I think most people here arc they should go along with their 
student body's political leanings," questions on graduating class, election was mixed. Many stu­too apathetic, even in this elec­peers and participate ... hopt>ful­
Leonard said. gender and college. These resull'> dents felUhat the election would tion, to get involved," he said. ly, it will motivate students to 
Bob Franken. student print will be compared with voting not produce a true ref1ection of Laurie McFadden, coordinator really show an interest in this 
nwdia coordinator. said the elec­preference and sorted for trends. political opinion at Notre Dame. of broadcast media, agreed in election." 
tion also acts as a type of poll. "We're going to determine if Notre Dame law student Tom part. with the student concerns 
"It's as much of a survey as it is there are any patterns of voting Mitchell supported the election on apathy, citing voter apathy as Contact Paul Spadafora at 
an election." Franken said. based on gender, college and but questioned _the forthcoming the biggest problem. pspadafo@nd.edu 
continued from page 1 

---·========================================================================= 
in a hotel." Seniors Lauren Kinsman. Carrie


Fires 

Lett. Molly Welch and Stcph Giannetto were hit especially hard 
continued from page 1 

by the third fire, which occurred 
msponsible for all three fires, he at about 3:30 pm on Oct. 14. 
said. "Our apartment suffered signifi­
Although the first two fires cant smoke damage. Structural 
extinguished thPmselves. the Clay damage included a handful of Fin~ Department responded to all walls and part of the ceiling," said three incidenl" and followed pro­Welch. "Some rooms are obvi­tocol of evacuating residents from ously worse than others with their apartments each time, black walls. nails burnt thru the Schabbel said. lie was unsure walls, blistered paint, and holes whether the complex was filled to­made in the efforts to stop the lire capacity at the time of the fires. before it spread through the attic Omar Zidan, manager of Castle and into other units in the build­
Point. said complex management ing." 

immediately took precautionary Castle Point authorities stepped 
measures following the third fire. in to help the students, Welch Castle Point ownership switched said, allowing them to move to hands in September when broth­another unit within the complex ers Haed and Ilani Zidan pur­and assisting with expenses. chased the complex. Owners were "Castle Point is being very help­unavailable for comment. ful. They paid to clean our "We put three smoke detectors in clothes, mattresses and couches each hallway." Omar Zidan said. and have helped us move our stuff "We put smoke detectors in all the to the new apartment," she said. laundry rooms and secured them "Under the terms of the lease that with locks. Only residents can we signed, Castle Point did not enter." have a responsibility to do any of 
lie added that four security the above." guar·ds now patrol the property Castle Point has made an cllilrt instead of one. to deal with the damage caused 
According to Omar Zidan. resi­by the fires. Omar Zidan said. An 
dents have not expressed unease. outside contractor -a disaster or anxiety about living in Castle restoration specialist firm called Point. First Hesponse Inc. -was con­
"Because of the new ownership. tacted to provide fire restoration. tlw n~sidenL<; feel better. The old Welch said following the third fire. lowrwrl didn't put in smoke detec­owners circulated 11ycrs to every tors." hP said. "The residents unit ofi'ering a $15.000 reward for wen• mally happy and thanked us information about a possible for moving everyone into corpo­cause. rate units, helping them until 3 !~'dock in the morning and not Contact Kate Antonacci at just sending thm1 to lind a room kantonac@nd.edu 
for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 
: CCINtrll"ft CC 0"' 
• OA,-AileD &..a•IAit : STUo£NT Ntcrn 

The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 

(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent libra1y resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) Contact: Tami Schmitz: 1-3106: schmitz.8@nd.edu 
University Counseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact. Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.cdu 
For more information, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scfllsn/ 
actively campaigning for stronghold of Granger this President Bush as well as for weekend to make sure that reg­local Hepublican candidates, istered voters turnout. Mmnbers continued from page 1 including a door-to-door plan to work at the campaign "precinct walk" for 2nd District headquarters of Chocola and 
College Democrats co-president. Congressman Chris Chocola in gubernatorial candidate Mitch stressed the importance of per­South Bend Sunday. Chocola · Daniels on Election· Day. son-to-person campaigning, cit­faces a tight race with Hippinger said. ing a Harvard study that showed Democratic challenger Joe Rock the Vote will also keep door-to-tloor canvassing to be Donnelly. active through Nov. 2, according the most effective means of per­"We passed out campaign lit­to student coordinator Peter suading registered voters to erature and it had information Quaranto. vote." about why Congressman Chris "Now that registration dead­
Taylor mentioned two other Chocola would be good for the lines have passed. the goals of trips the College Democrats plan 2nd District," said Ian Ronderos, Hock the Vote have shifted to to take before the election next College Republicans co-presi­getting out the vote and provid­Tuesday. dent. "It had a very good ing events to promote informed 
"We're taking a final cam­response." citizenship." said Quaranto. paign road trip to Toledo, a In addition to local precincts. To help ensure that registered group of about 30 of us, to do the Hepublicans will also target students vote. Hock the Vote is general last-minute canvassing more traditional n"emocratic sponsoring a campus-wide com­and phone-banking." neighborhoods to help improve petition that will award tlw 
Notre Dame College support for Chocola. dorm with the largest percent­
Democrats will also volunteer in "This week we're doing a bus age of voting residents a $250 Benton Harbor. Mich on Election tour with Congressman Chris gift certificate to Br~st Buy. Day to get out the vote for Kerry. Chocola down to traditionally The organization will also br~ 
In addition, the College democratic Kokomo, to do 72-sponsoring an Election Watch in Democrats will hold a rally with hour campaigning," said Tom the Coleman-Morse lounge from other progressive student Hippinger. College Hepublicans 6 p.m. to midnight on Nov. 2. 
groups at 5:15 p.m. today on co-president. Fieldhouse Mall. College Hepublicans will also Contact Micahel Busk at College Republicans have been canvass in the Republican mbusk@nd.edu 


Ca01paign 
. .
. .
........................................................................ 

Wednesday, October 27, 2004 


Dow 9 888.48 +138.49
}ones ' 
4,
Up: Same: ~: Composite Volume: 2,331 166 • 1,687,651,840 
AMEX 1, 311.57 +3.57 
NASDAQ 1,422.14 +9.57 
NYSf 6,598.45 +77.55 
s&PSOO 1,111.09 +16.29 
NIKKEI(Tokyo) 10,672.46 +13:31 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,583.40 +18.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) +0.25 +0.01 4.02 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.98 +0.27 27.90 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +0.42 +0.09 21.40 
STEMCELLS INC (STEM) -22.49 -0.92 3.17 
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) +0.28 +0.05 18.11 
Treasuries , 
30-YEAR BOND +0.17 +0.08 47.62 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.43 +0.17 39.89 
5-YEARNOTE +0.37 +0.12 32.51 
3-MONTH BILL +2.29 +0.42 18.74 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.63 55.17 
GOLD ($ffroy oz.) -2.20 427.60 
PORK BEWES (cents/lb.) -0.33 94.48 
Excha e Rates 
YEN 106.8600 
EURO 0.7839 
POUND 0.5450 
CANADIAN$ 1.2245 
IN BRIEF 
Hotels refuse to end lockout 
SAN FRANCISCO -Faced with an ultima­tum from the mayor, 14 San Francisco hotels refused Tuesday to end their four-week lock­out of unionized employees. 
"We respectfully decline the mayor's request for a 90-day cooling-off period," said Cornell Fowler, a spokesman for the hotel operators. 
Mayor Gavin Newsom on Monday threat­ened to call for a boycott of the hotels if they did not agree to allow the 4,000 bellhops, maids, cooks and other workers to return to their jobs while contract talks continue. 
Warning that the dispute was tarnishing the city's image and hurting its workers, Newsom said he would join the hotel workers on the picket lines and encourage mayors in other cities to play hardball with the properties' cor­porate owners. 
He made good on the vow Tuesday, showing up for a half hour at the posh St. Francis Hotel, where he reiterated his plan to prevent the city from doing business with the hotels. He said he personally won't attend functions there, either. 
Attorney general questions Anthem 
PHilADELPHIA -Anthem Inc. received a sub­poena Monday from Connecticut Attorney General Richard Blumenthal, who is seeking information from the health insurer about commissions and bonuses. 
"It just lays out some standard questions about commission and bonus structure," Anthem spokesman James Kappel told Dow Jones Newswires on Tuesday. "We plan to comply with the request for information." 
The subpoena was the first that the Indianapolis company has received from Connecticut's attor­ney general or any state official investigating the insurance industry, he said. 
Anthem did not issue a formal release on the subpoena or ftl.e a notification with the Securities and Exchange Commission, he said, because "it's not a material event for the company." Kappel had no further comment on the request for infor­mation. 
Anthem, the nation's fourth-largest publicly traded managed-care company, operates Blue Cross and Blue Shield health pfttns in several states. 


THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

Firms to submitvoting software 
Computer scientists remain concerned about integrity of upcoming election 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE, Calif. -The 
nation's largest voting 
machine companies are 
submitting millions of lines 
of code to the National 
Software Reference 
Library to address sharp 
criticism from computer 
scientists about the secret 
software used in elections. 
But executives at the vot­

ing machine makers said ·Tuesday they would not submit their most valuable data -their proprietary source code. And they might not provide the 
library with copies of soft­
ware patches, updates and 
upgrades. 
Computer scientists said 
the conciliatory gesture 
wouldn't help ensure the 
integrity of next week's 
presidential election, when 
as many as 29 million 
Americans will cast elec­
tronic ballots. Some 
researchers worry that 
hackers, software bugs, ill­
trained poll workers or 
power outages could inten­
tionally or accidentally 
erase or alter voting data. 
"This is a a step in the 
right direction," said Doug 
Jones, associate professor 
at the University of Iowa's 
computer science depart­
ment. "I just wish these 
steps had been taken earli­
er. I say hooray, but it's a 
Assistance Commission, a software code that's said the-archive now con­
long-term benefit with 
year-old federal agency already been installed and tains significant parts of
some pretty glaring 
created through the Help used on an individual vot­the code to be used Nov. 2
caveats." 
America Vote Act. ing machine and compare in Florida, California,

Executives from the largest equipment makers EAC Chairman DeForest it to the software code Georgia, Maryland, in the United States -Soaries Jr. acknowledged stored in the library, noted Delaware, New Mexico that the data was far from library director Barbara and Nevada. They also
Election Systems & 

Software, Sequoia Voting complete. But he said the Guttman. submitted vote-tallying Systems, Diebold Election companies' ongoing sub­Avi Rubin, technical software and other "elec­Systems and Hart missions could eventually director of the Information tion management" pro­InterCivic -announced make election software Security Institute of Johns grams. Tuesday that they had more transparent to com­Hopkins University, called All the software in the already submitted many puter scientists, who want the program "meaning­library has been certified "open source" voting soft­less." by independent testing
versions of the software 

that will be used to tally ware that can be inde­"At a high level, this plan authorities. Many states 
votes next week. The pendently inspected. sounds good," Rubin said. require such certification 
library, run by the Scientists were pes­"It reminds me of when before running the pro­
National Institute of simistic, noting that hack­people take security meas­grams in actual elections. 
Standards and Technology, ers could delete ballots on ures simply for appear­Mark Radke, a market­
also holds proprietary a particular machine with­ance's sake-to make you ing director at Diebold, 
code from Microsoft Corp., out any worries that the feel better. But it's not said data storage "should 
Oracle Corp. and other library archives would foil adding any realsecurity." provide substantial assur­
technology giants. them. No technology on The big vendors and a ance to the voting public 
Executives acted at the the market today allows an smaller company, Avante that their vote is accurate­
request of the U.S. Election election official to check International Technology, ly and securely tabulated." 



ATA files for bankruptcy protection 
Ronald Reagan Washington National Delta is expected to decide by
Associated Press 
Airport. Wednesday whether to seek Chapter 

INDIANAPOLIS -ATA Airlines The deal is subject to approvals by 11 bankruptcy protection. Inc., the nation's lOth-largest air­the bankruptcy court and other enti­The ATA filing under Chapter 11 line, filed for bankruptcy protection ties and is expected to take effect by of the federal bankruptcy code came Tuesday, becoming the latest U.S. early next year, ATA officials said. as the Indianapolis-based airline, airline tripped up by rising fuel "We will recreate ATA as a formi­whose parent company is ATA costs and fare wars. dable, low-cost carrier," founder Holdings Corp., faces sharply lower 
ATA sold off airport slots and and chief executive George demand for military charter flights, other assets to AirTran Airways Inc. Mikelsons said Tuesday. in addition to the soaring fuel costs for $87.6 million but said it plans to ATA on Monday named an execu­and fare wars. ATA also is saddled honor tickets and maintain its full tive to oversee the restructuring of with millions of dollars in debt from flight schedule. the discount carrier's mounting new aircraft purchases. · 
The Orlando, Fla.-based AirTran debt. The value of the company plum­Holdings Inc. will assume ATA's ATA's announcement came amid meted 36 percent Tuesday, its stock flight operations, gate leases and speculation that Delta Air Lines Inc, closing at 93 cents a share, down 53 routes at Chicago Midway Airport the nation's third-largest airline, cents, on the Nasdaq stock and arrival and departure slots at would win $1 billion in concessions exchange. The stock had hit a 52­New York's LaGuardia Airport and from its pilots and avoid bankruptcy. week high of $13.31 on Feb. 2. 

..-------------------------------­
~-~~ 

page 8 Wednesday, October 27, 2004
The Observer + CAMP.US NEWS 

3,000 Opus Dei members. that it is defined by individuals explained, referring to the spiri­organization is really all about," However, activities at both rather than geographical areas. tual growth of Opus Dei mem­Warner said. "I wish it were
Opus 

centers attract undergraduates Opus Dei is more structured bers. "We can be assured that if more up front in terms of an on a weekly basis. thaJ:J other lay organizations. we are one in the spirit, we are approach where things would be
continued from page 1 

Windmoor director Jeffrey Members are classified most doing the sam·e thing. The laid out ahead of time, and not extn~mes. from the canonization Langan, one of a handful of generally into two groups: priests are meant to be the glue. just the general invitation to of its founder in 2002 to the Opus Dei faculty members at numeraries and supernumer­They are~ in constant contact pray together or teach cate­arrest of member Robert Notre Dame, says the invitation aries. Numeraries are laymen with the men and also the chism." llanssen. the FBI-agent turned is extended to anyone interest­and women who women." Langan said a layered discov­Hussian spy, in 2001. ed, as the organization is private live a celibate and The presence ery process is intrinsic to the 
Brown's descriptions were -but not secretive, a critique ascetic lifestyle in 'Tm not always of Opus Dei at nature of relationships, includ­often inaccurate, including the alleged by many on the national centers, and give convinced that ... elite colleges ing one with Opus Dei. portrayal of Opus Dei as a level. their salary and such as Notre He compared joining Opus Dei
people know 

monastic order and its exagger­"We don't hide who we are," time to Opus Dei. Dame is vital to to marrying aspouse. ation of corporal mortification Langan said. "But we don't Supernumeraries, exactly what its apostolate "There are some things about practices. The reality is far more make a big deal of it either." also lay men and they're dealing mission. Students your spouse that you can't possi­complex. women. live out the at such universi­bly know until al'ter you're mar­
"The Work" with, what the 
Unbeknownst to many, Notre Opus Dei spirit ties -which ried," he said. 
Opus Dei, Latin for "The Work 
Dame is one of few universities through fulfilling organization is include "We tell people before they
of God," was founded in Spain in 
that has Opus Dei houses, called their duties to their really all about. " Princeton, join Opus Dei that there will be
1928 by St. Josemaria Escriva. 
"cpnters." near its campus. family, the most Harvard, things demanded, it will be chal­
Escriva envisioned a way that 
Wind moor. the men's center, has important aspect of Dartmouth, lenging. These will be revealed
ordinary lay people could seek 
Notre Dame Ave. since their Christian lives. Father Richard Warner Columbia and in talks and as you are getting to
b!~!Hl on holiness in their everyday activi" 
director

I 960. Southold. a women's cen­Priests are in a Georgetown us and we arc getting to know
ties, especially through work. 
ter, is marking its tenth year in third category, but Campus Ministry will influence the you."
Members are called upon to 
South Bend. compose only a future through National critics accuse Opus
live the Opus Dei spirit that 
Opus Dt~i's presence near cam­small fraction of the their leadership, Dei of being less than forthcom­
Escriva imparted. This is a spirit 
pus is not well-known. due in membership. Langan says. ing about the organization's
of prayer, charity, sacrifice and 
part to its small membership Lay members work in the sec­"From universities, you can practices and recruitment.
Christian love. 
that grows slowly through word­ular world, but receive strict find people who are the most Others say Opus Dei rntains too
In 1982, the Vatican granted
of-mouth invitation. In the spiritual direction from Opus idealistic, the most capable of much control over its nwmbers,
Opus Dei the unique status of a 
United States. there are only Dei. They follow a spiritual rou­going all over the U.S. and the particularly students. 
personal prelature, meaning 
tine including daily Mass, rosary, world, if that's what is asked of "Anyone who has more than a spiritual reading and personal them," Langan said. passing knowledge of the prayer, as well as Opus Dei However; Opus Dei activities Catholic scene is more likely to prayers and customs. have never been permitted on have a highly critical estimation 
Spiritual formation consists of campus because the of Opus Dei," said Father regular talks with either an Congregation of the Holy Cross Richard McBrien, a professor in Opus Dei priest or center direc­is exclusively entrusted with the theology department. tor. Members strive to improve pastoral ministry of students, "Opus Dei prohibits its stu­on day-to-day details: personal said Father Richard Warner, the dents from taking courses from well-being, such as sleeping director . of Notre Dame's certain professors or from seek­habits and relationships, as well Campus Ministry for the past 16 ing spiritual counsel from cer-~ as spiritual matters. years. tain priests on the faculty or 
Senior Rich Moss. who attend­Participation in Opus Dei is not stall' of the University," McBrim1 ed an Opus Dei-sponsored high mutually exclusive with other said. school and who now lives at activities. including Campus Langan denied such an impu­Windmoor, said the Opus Dei Ministry. Students and faculty tation. saying that no on(~ is spirit is relatively simple and lead active lives outside of the advised against taking specific straightforward. Opus Dei centers. courses. only that students are 
"Opus Dei is all about sanctifi~ "[Opus Dei] is an approved encouraged to be prudent in cation of work and apostolate," way of life for people who are their selection. There is a list of Moss said. "Basically, do what looking to deepen their spiritual· books for directors to referrncr. you do on a daily basis for God, ity and their commitment to so that if a student is required to and help other people do the God," Warner said. "The faculty read such material, they can same." members I know who are mem­seek out additional articles to 
bers of Opus Dei, I have, person­supplement the reading, he said. 
TH~ TRUTH IS...-­
Opus Del In South Bend 
ally, a great deal of respect for Langan added that all students 
Throughout the week, 
... I think they're very good peo­are free to receive counsel or
Windmoor opens its doors to 
ple who have a deep spiritual sacraments from whomever
many male undergraduates 
life and have found in Opus Dei they choose, but he recommends 
attracted to the spiritual forma­
a means to sanctify their life and that students talk to an Opus Dei
tion and collegiality the center 
their work." priest if they have been receiv­offers. 
ing Opus Dei formation. · 

Friday night meditations draw Controversies 
"We do tell [students) that thethe largest crowd, usually Warner acknowledged that the person who can best give youaround 30 students. After relationship between some stu­advice in confession is a priest of Eucharistic adoration and a dents and Opus Dei has caused Opus Dei because they under­brief homily, dinner is served. concern in the past. 
stand the spirit and are receiv­After dinner, a faculty member "Over the course of the years 
ing the same formation,"
is often invited to speak to the that I've been director of Langan said. "They know what'sgroup on his area of expertise. Campus Ministry," Warner said, being asked of you and can giveSouthold, the women's center, "there have been occasions
JIMMY'S SCHOOL eO.UNSWIR. SAID IU: WAS LAZY AND HrD 
the best advice on how to put
is neither as organized nor as where situations have arisen
NmR. AMOUNT TO SQUAl SO W~ MOO SANDWlCH~S Wrrn 
into practice the things you arewell attended, said senior Cara because ... some of the students 
t9a3 TH~ 9~ST STU~ W~ CAN RND. AND W~ MRK~ ·~ ~ INCH~ hearing." ~ 
Farr. in Opus Dei ... had a harder
LONC~R THAN mR.YON~ ru~ DO~S. THAT'LL URCH HIM. Students and faculty involved
She added that the center pro­time than they should have in with Opus Dei say that reactionvides a place for spiritual forma­getting out when they wanted
L~T TH~ TRUTH 9~ KNOWN. they receive on campus is gener­
tion, as welf as a longer day of to." 
ally positive, even after the pub­reflection once a month. Warner could not comment on lication of Brown's book. 
While students are often any specifics, but said the latest "The DaVinci Code has beenfriends with those at the center incident occurred almost two an occasion to have a lot of good of the opposite sex, the two cen­years ago. He cited a frequent 
conversation with people."
ters maintain very little contact lack of transparency as a cause , Langan said. 
in terms of formation. of confusion. 
"[Escriva] wanted men and 'Tm not always convinced that women to be independent, to ... people know exactly what Contact Janice Flynn at have no collaboration," Langan they're dealing with. what the jflynn1@nd.edu 
..........h··· Thursday, October 28th beginning at 7 am PGION At Notre Dame Stadium (Enter At Gate BOf Stadium) 
• Last year booklets sold out fast! 
• Questions call Notre Dame ticket office at 631-7356 

• Share student booklets this year with other Notre Dame students! 
BREAKFAST SERVED WHILE YOU WAIT IN LINE..FREE KRISPY KREME DOUGHNUTS!! (WHILE SUPPLIES LAST) 




------~---------, 




ELECTION 2004
• :> :: : •. ... :: -: 'V .: '-I : -:) I -·: -.
Wednesday, October 27, 2004 COM! ILLD I ROM T! IL ()_ BSLk LRS \\IRE. SLk\IICLS page 9 

CAMPAIGN NEWS 
Voters skeptical of voting accuracy 
WASHINGTON -Memories of Florida's contested 2000 presidential election and a growing number of pre-election lawsuits are making Americans skeptical about a voting process they once took for granted. 
Six in 10 of those surveyed in an Associated Press poll say it's likely there will not be a clear winner in the presidential race by Nov. 3 -the day after the election. About half say they rear the results will be chal­lenged in court, according to the poll con­ducted for the AP by Ipsos Public Affairs. 
Both Democrats and Hepublicans worry about the possibility of an unresolved elec­tion -though Democrats express more wor­ries. About seven in 10 Democratic voters, 69 percent. say they think it's likely there won't be a clear winner by Election Day, while almost six in 10 Hepublican voters, 56 pnrcent. say they feel that way. 
With both political parties putting thou­sands of lawyers on call for Election Day, a majority of both Democrats and Hepublicans -just over half of each -expect the elec­tion results will be challenged in court. 
Joe Lockhart. a Kerry spokesman, said Tuesday during a conference.call: "Our oper­ating assumption is that there will be a clear winner. The six-in-10 number is areaction to coverage to some of the shenanigans that are going on. I expect the six-in-10 number to go down and not go up before Election Day." 
Tom Josefiak. the Bush campaign's top lawyer, said recently that "it may takes days or weeks" after Nov. 2 to determine the win­ner because of absentee ballots and other questions. 
Catholic group: Bush failed to 
respond to bishops' form 
The Bush-Cheney campaign refused to fill out a questionnaire developed for the presi­dential candidates by U.S. Roman Catholic bishops, according to a memo obtained by a Catholic voter advocacy group. 
Frank J. Monahan, in the Office of Government Liaison of the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, sent a memo Aug. 16 to Democrat )ohn Kerry, saying his campaign need not submit answers because "the Bush campaign has indicated that it does not intend to respond to the questionnaire." 
Monahan wrote that the bishops' confer­ence was abandoning the project because it "cannot disseminate the questionnaire responses of only one candidate" under IRS rules requiring that charitable organizations remain nonpartisan. The questionnaire asked the candidates about their positions on issues including abortion, health care and immigration. 
Catholics comprise about one:quarter of the electorate, and the campaigns have been competing fiercely for their vote. 
Kerry is Catholic but has drawn criticism from bishops for supporting abortion rights. The presid~nt's anti-abortion position is closer to that of the church. Bush is a Methodist. 
The memo was obtained by The Catholic Voting Project, a group formed partly to counter what it sees as a narrow focus on abortion among politicians seeking Catholic support. Project organizers say they are nonpartisan, but believe Catholics should consider a wide range of social justice issues when deciding which .candidate to support. 
1 
l


Attacks stretch across party lines • I I ·1 I 
Bush, Kerry praise former presidents as national security battle continues 

Associated Press 

ONALASKA, Wis. President Bush and Sen. John Kerry accused each other of lacking the hard­nosed resolve of Cold War presidents from Democrat Truman to Republican Reagan ­reaching across party lines a week before Election Day to try to break their cam­paign deadlock. 
With tensions rising Tuesday in both camps, Kerry escalated his criti­cism of Bush over explo­sives missing in ·Iraq, asserting that the weapons could be used against American troops and citi­zens. He accused the presi­dent of keeping the cost of war in Iraq under wraps until after Election Day. 
"What else are you keep­ing from the American peo­ple?" Kerry said in Green Bay. 
Across the state, Bush said his rival favors "the· position of weakness and inaction" contrary to "the great tradition of the Democratic Party." 
A Los Angeles Times poll showed the popular vote tied, 48-48, with Bush­weary voters open to change on Iraq and the economy but harboring doubts about Kerry's ability to lead the nation against terror. 
New state surveys showed the race also knot­ted in Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania, the three most important battle­grounds in the race for 270 Electoral College votes. 
Behind the scenes, both campaigns tweaked their stump speeches, advertis­ing strategies and get-out­the-vote drives. In addition to Wisconsin, Bush visited Iowa while Kerry traveled to Nevada and New Mexico -all tossup states. 
After spending weeks casting Kerry as a flip-flop­ping liberal in TV ads, Bush plann.ed to close the race with a 60-second commercial designed to portray himself as a trust­worthy, steady leader. 
The high point, according to advisers.. is a clip of a choked-up Bush addressing the Republican National Convention about meeting the children of slain U.S: soldiers "who are told their dad or mom is a hero but would rather just have their dad or mom." 
Kerry's latest ad accuses the Bush administration of failing to secure nearly 400 tons of explosives that are missing from a military installation south of Baghdad. "His Iraq mis­judgments put our soldiers at risk, and make our country less secure," Kerry says of Bush in the ad. 
He said in Green Bay the explosives "could be in the hands of terrorists, used to attack our troops or our people." 
Vice President Dick Cheney responded for Bush from Florida, saying, "It is not at all cleav that those explosives were even at the weapons facility when our troops arrived in the area of Baghdad." 
In the battle of past pres­idents, Bush said Democrats Roos­evelt,Truman and Kennedy showed "confidence and resolve in times of war and hours of ·crisis," asserting that Kerry lacks such met­tle. 
Kerry said Presidents Roosevelt, Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy and Reagan all built strong alliances, a contrast to Bush who Kerry said "has failed in his fundamental obligation as commander in chief to make America as safe and s.ecure as we should be." 
Later, in Nevada, the Democrat appealed in both Spanish and English to undecided voters. "We're in a bigger mess by the day and the president can't see it or can't admit it, but either way, America is less safe," he said. 
Bush made a direct pitch to wavering Democrats, particularly moderates unsure about Kerry. 
"If you believe America should lead with strength and purpose and confi­dence and resolve, I'd be honored to have your sup­port and I'm asking for your vote," he said. 
In a gesture of modera­tion aimed at the same vot­ers, Bush told ABC-TV he supported civil unions for homosexual couples "if that's what a state chooses to do." The remark upset some conservatives who not only want to amend the Constitution to ban gay marriage, as does Bush, but also wou-ld bar state approval of gay civil. unions. 
Campaign pitches varied from deadly serious to almost silly. A radio ad reminded Wisconsin voters that Kerry got the name of their beloved Green B.ay Packers' football stadium wrong. Kerry recruited rocker Bruce Springsteen to play at his rallies. 

INDIANA GOVERNOR'S RACE: NEW POLLS TIGHTEN 
INDIANAPOLIS Two election were held that day, and last month also found the statewide polls show the gov­while 45 percent said they race about even. ernor's race between were more likely tt;J vote for A different poll released Democratic incumbent Joe Kernan. Monday by Indianapolis televi­Kernan and Republican chal­The telephone survey of 600 sion station WISH indicated lenger Mitch Daniels remains likely voters statewide was Daniels with a slight lead .. tight one week before Election conducted Friday through About 48 percent of respon­Day. Sunday for the news organiza­dents in that poll said they 
A South Bend Tribune/WSBT tions by Research 2000, a preferred Daniels, compared poll released Tuesday showed Maryland-based firm. and had with about 42 percent favoring the race about even. a margin of error of plus or Kernan and about 2 percent 
Forty-eight percent of minus four percentage points. for Libertarian Kenn Gividen. respondents said they would Telephone polls sponsored About 6 percent said they likely vote for Daniels if the by the same groups this month were undecided. 
The telephone survey of 421 likely voters, conducted for WISH by the Indiana University Center for Survey Research, had a margin of error of plus or minus five percentage points. The live phone interviews were con­ducted Oct. 12 through Sunday. 
Two other statewide tele­phone polls conducted in recent weeks also showed Daniels and Kernan running 
about even. 
Daniels campaign manager Bill Oesterle said the WISH poll findings were significant for several reasons. 
"Obviously we are very excit­ed, not just because of the lead but because with a third party 
. in there -Kenn Gividen and other -the winner only needs 49 percent of the vote, so we are getting close to having a winning margin," Oesterle said. 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



F A l l A R T S F E S T SHAKESPEARE IN 

M U S c 
Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra 
November 4 at 8 p.m. Tickets: $6, $5 ND/SMC/HC, $3 students 

King's Singers 
November 7 at 8 p.m. Tickets: $44, $35 ND/SMC/HC, $15 students 

M U S c 

ND Schola Musicorum 
Wednesday, October 27 at 9:30 p.m. 
Abend-Musique XXIII 
Reyes Organ and Choral Hoff 
The Scholo Musicorum was formed in 1993 to study and perform Gregorian Chant. Wednesday's concert will feature chant by composer Guillaume Du Fay. For more on the ND Scholo Musicorum, visit www.nd.edu/-Emusic/ensembles/ scholo.html 

Glee Club Concert 
Friday, October 29 at 8 p.m. Tickets: $3 all seals 
F L M 
Nosferatu (90 minutes) Thursday, October 28 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. www.nosferotumovie.com/ 
F.W. Murnou's silent film classic shown with live musical accompaniment. 
Before Sunset (80 minutes) Friday, October 29 at 7 p.m. and 10 R.m. http://wip.warnerbros .com/beforesunset/ Romantic story set in Vienna and Paris. 


All The President's Films 
Saturday, October 30 starting at 11 a.m. The films to be screened include Primary, The Best Man, The War Room, Journeys with George, Primary Colors and Wag the Dog. Please visit http://performingarts.nd.edu for more information about the films and show times. 

THEATRE 
Fortinbras By Lee Blessing November 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 Tickets: $12,$10 ND/SMC/HC, $8 

A Midsummer Night's Dream 
November 3 and 6 at 7:30 p.m. Tickets $18, $16 ND/SMC/HC, $12 students Performed by Actors From The London Stage 
MacHomer by Rick Miller November 5 and 6 Tickets: $37, $30 ND/SMC/HC, $15 students 
THEATRE 

Victoria 
www. du lci-langfelder.org/Eng I ish/engfrome.html November 11 at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. Decio Theatre Matinee price is $15 Evening Performance $30, $25 faculty/staff, 
$15 all students 
A humorous, warm and loving play about aging based on an original idea and texts by Charles Fariala, staged and performed by Dulcinea Langfelder. 
Dulcinea langfelder recaptures the comic tradition of Choplin, with on original and a very contempo­rary twist, through clever use of technology and multiple disciplines. The heroine, Victoria, has lost her memory; she's lost her pussycat, she's lost control over her life. A shadow of her former self; Victoria adopts and adopts comic and dramatic situations as her imagination dictates. Her wheel· chair is also her rocking choir, her prison, her tango partner and her flying chariot. 
F I L M 

Tickets for these films will go on sole on Monday, November 1. For more information about these films, please visit http://performingorts.nd.edu. 
Amleto {1915} Thursday, November 4, 8 p.m. 
Titus (l999J Friday, November 5 at 6:30p.m. 
Forbidden Planet (1956) Friday, November 5 at 10 p.m. 
Richard Ill (1955) Sqturday, November 6 at 11 :30 a.m. 
Ran (1985) Saturday, Novemb~r 6 at 3 p.m. 
Romeo and Juliet (1996) Saturday, November 6 at 6:30 p.m. 
Hamlet (2000} Saturday, November 6 at 10 p.m. 
D A N C E 

NDPresents: Momix at the Morris 
www.momix.com 

November 13 Performed at the Morris Performing Arts Center Tickets range from $12 to $30 Order tickets on line at www.MorrisCenter.org or call 574.235.9190 
Momix may change your definition of dance. Known internationally for work of exceptional inventiveness and physical beautiful, Momix is a company of dancer-illusionists. Under the direction of Moses Pendleton, the company has conjured a world of surreal images for more than 20 years. For Notre Dame Momix will perform their critically acclaimed Opus Cactus. Choreographed by Moses Pendleton, Opus Cactus, is a celebration of the deserts of the American Southwest. Drawing from other art forms-gymnastics, acrobatics, body surfing, pole vaulting, ballet and puppetry-and aided by designers whose imaginations are as large as the desert sky, Pendleton has sculpted nineteen desert scenes to make you forget the cooling temperatures of Michiana November. Prepare to be delighted. 



Discounted tickets are underwritten by the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. There are a limited number of student discounts available. sign up for updates at 
MARIE P. DEBARTOlO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS http:/ /performingarts.nd.edu 

Call 574-631-2800 
•.':} '::1 
Wednesday, October 27, 2004 page II
The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
JAPAN 
Rescuers dig for quake survivors 
Associated Press 
NAGAOKA -A family of three-a motl-ier and her two toddltus -was rescued Wednesday after surviving four days buried in a land­slide fro;n the powerful quake that ravaged northern Japan OV!'r the weekend. 
The family's white van was swept away in a wave of boul­ders and earth that pulver­izPd the hillside road they WPre on when a 6.8-rnagni­tude quake ripped a·cross rural Niigata prefflcture on Saturday. killing at lflast 31 pPople. 
Firefighters dispatched from Tokyo dug steadily through the rocks and rubble Wednesday afternoon after hearing Takako Minagawa's voice in response to their calls. The family's van was discovered. on Tuesday. 
TV footage showed the two children -Mayu Minagawa, 
3. and Yuta Minagawa, 2 ­being pulled from the wreck­age by the rescuers, covered in mud after four days under the landslide. The workers continued digging to free the mother. 

The children were flown by helicopter to hospital, said Keiko Kondo. a spokeswoman for Tokyo Fire Department. 
The family had been the focus of intense interest in Japan after their car was spotted under the hillside rubble on Tuesday. TV sta­tions showed Minagawa 's father's desperate attempts to track down the family-in the post-quake chaos. 
The surprise rescue came hours after a powerful 6.1­magnitude quake rocked the region Wednesday morning, rattling already-damaged buildings and terrifying resi­dents. At least five people were injured. and some build­ings were damaged. 
Homeless people in evacua­tion centers threw themselves to the floor and screamed in horror as the Wednesday tem­blor rumbled through the rural area of Niigata prefec­ture. A 4.2-magnitude after­shock hit about 25 minutes later. 

The Japan Meteorological Agency said the stronger quake was centered at a depth of 6 miles in Hirokami, a village of 9,200 abouf 150 miles northwest of Tokyo. The agency warned another quake of similar strength could hit in the coming hours or days. 
Five people were injured in the Wednesday morning quake, but it was unclear if any of them were in serious condition. One man suffered a stroke from the shock of the quake, said Hisao Ishikawa of the Niigata prefectural gov­ernment. 
"Aftershocks are continuing, we don't know what the dam­age situation is yet," said Kazumasa Sakurai, an official at the Hirokami city hall. 
THAILAND 
Dozens of detainees suffocated, crushed 
Prime Minister apologizes for police's action 
Associated Press 
BO THONG -Thailand's prime minister apologized Wednesday for the deaths of 78 Muslim detainees who were suffocated or crushed while crammed into army trucks after a riot, but insisted that his security forces were. "soft" on the rioters. 
Grieving relatives, mean­while, flocked to a camp to claim the bodies and outraged Islamic leaders warned the deaths could worsen sectarian violence in the Muslim-domi­nated south of predominantly Buddhist Thailand, where more than 400 people have been killed this year in the revival of a long-simmering insurgency. 
Prime Minister Thaksin 
The Olin Distinguished Lecture Series 
The Notre Dame Law School Natural Law Institute Presents 
Epistemological Legalism or "Truth, Justice, and the American Way" 
Upcoming Lecture 
Stephen Perry November 9 

Dr. Susan Haack 
CooperSenior Scholar in Arts & Sciences Professor of Philosophy Professor of Law 
University of Miami 
Thursday, October 28, 2004 4 p.m. 
Notre Dame La\.v School Courtroom 
Shinawatra said that "there were sorrie mistakes," and that authorities lacked enough trucks to properly transport the 1,300 people arrested in Monday's riot in the sou.thern province of Narathiwat because it was a public holi­day. 
Authorities had to "pile them up on top of each other; and they died," he said. 
"We are sorry for that, sorry they met an untimely death." he told the Thai Senate. which had demanded an explanation for the deaths. 
But Thaksin insisted the mili­tary had used "the soft approach," and that soldiers "did not fire a single round into the crowd ... They fired into the air and used only clubs . and rope to tie their hands ­that's the normal practice for controlling mobs." 
Gen. Sirichai Thunyasiri, commander of a task force on security in that region, said the military used only four trucks to transport more than 1,300 detainees, and that they spent more than six hours in the vehicles before arriving at an army camp in a neighborihg province. 
Thaksin and other Thai offi­
cials have sought to pin part of the blame for the deaths on the detainees' weakness due to ·dawn-to-dusk fasting during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan1 saying they died of 
dehydration or suffocation. 
Many relatives wept Wednesday as a police spokesman read out names of the dead outside the Inkayuth­Borihan army camp in Pattani province. 
Muslim resident Wadamae 
Hajehding, 62, traveled 75 
miles from the scene of 
Monday's riot to the army 
camp in hopes of finding that 
his 23-year-old son was not 
among the dead. 
He said Thailand's security 
forces were "too cruel." 
"They treat us worse than 
animals," he said. 
The detainees were among 
abdut 2,000 people who 
clashed with police and sol­
diers outside a police station in 
Narathiwat province Monday 
while demanding the release of 
six Muslim militant suspects. 
At least seven people also were 
killed in the melee, apparently 
shot by security forces, and the 
overall death toll stood 
Wednesday at 85. 
Police and soldiers fired 
water cannon and tear gas, 
then shot into the air to try to 
scatter the crowd. 
After subduing the rioters, 
police and soldiers kicked and 
in some cases smashed rifle 
butts into young men as they 
were forced to slither bare­
chested across a road to the 
trucks that took them away. 
Authorities said some rioters 
were armed. Thaksin said 20 
pistols, seven assault rifles and 
three hand grenades were 
recovered at the scene. 
The death toll shocked mod­
erate Muslim leaders who 
accused security forces of 
overreacting -a charge they 
have repeatedly made as the 
government has failed to halt 
violence in the so.uthern 
provinces near Malaysia. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, October 27, 2004 
THE OBSERVER 

America needs a change 
1!0. Box Q, Notr< Dame, IN 46556 
024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Luzar 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Mcghan ne Downes Mike Flanagan 
AsS'(; MANAGING EDITOR Joe Henler 
NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heining~r VIEWI'OINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Hearher Van Hoegardcn ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley . . GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
AD DESIGN MANAGEI\: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CONTROLLER: Paula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 6.31-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 ob.,ead@lnd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 6jl-4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsmc@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BusiNESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsncws.l@nd.edu ViEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK · 
.(574) 631-4543 spom.l@nd.cdu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 sccne.t@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
0BSERVERONL/N£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs of rhe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advcrrisemenrs based on conrcnr. 
The news is reported as accurarcly and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of rhc majority of rhc Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, A.o;sisranr Managing Ediror and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe aurhors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
ViL'Wpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions rhrough letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Q"miom rrg<Irding Observer policiessl;o,./d be dirc<'tcd to Editor in Chief Matt Loztzr. 
PosT OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th" OhK"rwr (USI'S ~91) 2·4000) UpuhtiJhcJ MonJ.1y rhmugh hiJ"y ~epr during fX;}m ~nd v'"-anon pcnodJ. A 1ub,criprion m The Oh~rvcr i~ Ji I00 ~or one .u:oldrmk )'l:ar. S'\~ lor on(' ~nk"Jitr The \ lhlt'rwr IJ .11 manOO ol f~ Auoc1•trd IUn. All rrprodw.:tiun nghu m: 
lt">l'lvcd. 
Ttw Oht('fvt<r u t•ublahcQ ar: 1~0. Hmc:Q 024 ~1u1h llmmg H~ 024 South tliniug Hall Nom: 1J,mt:, IN 4M5c6-0n9 Nolrt' l>;nftl.',lN 4655(,..1)77~ 1\onmlkal rouaxr p.Md ,If Notn.-Dame and additional mailing oftkn. 
I'O'TW811:R 
~md Mhlrru ~nrrt\:rlons ro: TheOhn•rYC"r 
TlM: Ohanvn i1 • m..,nhcr of rbc As-.i.ucd Pro,, All rcprodut:uon dgh[J .An:' n.'M.'tvai. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

We stand on the eve of what will 
, undoubtedly be the most influential election in our history. How we vote will not only shape this country, but also how the world imagines America. The democratic ideals on which our Kamaria Porter nation stood so 
Breaking the 
proudly have been 
Habit

compromised within the last four years. President George W. Bush and his administration of sorted corporate interests have misled both in the sense of being treacherous and dangerous for the American people. To stay on a path headed to ruin is folly. There are com­pelling, even staggering reasons to vote· for change in the White House. 
Today, we live in a world of harsh inequities.of wealth, political influence. health care, education and safety. The income gap has· become a daunting chasm of injustice. Not only are people separated by income. but also the hearts of the rich lind no kinship with the poor. Content to compile unneccl1~d wealth, the owning class selfishly turns hardship into profit by reducing work­er's wages and benefits. This "race to the bottom" makes basic survival on full-time work for minimum wage impossible for families. A job is more than a paycheck; it is our dignity, our livelihood and our gift to ourselves in old age·and our posterity. We need to value our citizens through instituting a living wage and ceasing impediments to collective bargaining for adequate and needed labor rights. 
All citizens must have equal access to the political process. The silencing of minority voices at the polls and in other facets of society endangers the fabric of our democracy. As Martin Luther King Jr. declared. "Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere;" we must embody that sentiment and treat the disenfranchisement of any citizens as ·a threat to our own civil liberties. We cannot impose democratic systems on other nations while our own political system is riddled with racism, sexism and class conflict. 
For too long, quality education in America has been situated as a privi­lege of the rich and well-off. while urban schools struggle with outdated books. badly-kept school buildings, budget cuts and under paid teaching staff'. The No Child Left Behind Act. under-funded and undermined by the Bush tax cuts. has done nothing to turn this tide of injustice. We need an actual commitment through adequate funding of this measure and further steps to minimize the education gap in Am'crica. 
In regards to foreign policy and U.S. leadership.in the world, much has been made about Bush's resolute and unwa­vering conviction to a single plan of . action. Indeed. the Bush administration does not change its stances too oftpn, but this is definitely not a positive attribute. As Noam Chomsky describes. Bush follows a strict line of policy deci­sions building U .S.-world hegmnony within a "lunatic doctrinal framework as it threatens survival." The war in Iraq, which is entering Vietnam-like territory with regards .to domestic and international opinion and difficulty in reaching a peaceful end with current leadership, has increased American insecurity and threat of terror. It does not deter terrorists from procuring weapons of mass destruction. particu­larly nuclear weapons. when the United States attacks a largely defenseless nation -Iraq-under falsilied and skewed reasoning while it deeds with nations like North Korea and Iran diplo­matically, knowing they have extensive weapons capabilities. It seems the Bush administration's incoherent message 
· will encourage anti-American entities to 
arm thcmselv1~s to prevent a U.S. ·attack on weakness. 
Additionally, our integrity in the world has greatly deteriorated since the beginning o'f the Bush reign. llis deci­sions to reject international. initi!ltivcs regarding biological and chemical weapons, the greenhouse effect and the reserving of outl~r space for peaceful purposes rel1ccts harmful unilateralism and disregard for other countries. Our power on the world stage rcquin~s U.S. participation in any global agremnent. While we may be abh~ to ensure our survival of biological weapon attack. by turning our back on international coali­tions and agreements to deter such aggression leaves our allies and defenseless countries open for attack. Further, this dismgard also aliPnates our ability to compile intdligence cru­cial to preventing another Sept. I I likP an attack on the UnitPd Statl~s or onP on our remaining allies. 
America rwnds a changP. and that change must lwgjn on Nov.~-\VP must not resign ourselves to inaction or sup­port of the status quo out of fear. Instead, we must carry tlw banrwr for peace and justice. which WP arP­when in solidarity-ablP to bring to this nation and this world. Sen . .John Kerry and Sen. John Edwards an~ not the absolute answer to all these prob­lems. yet their vision for America faces a vastly direction which will-along with our participation-bring the change we need to sec in America. For that. they have my vote and commit­ment to action frir a better America. 
Kamaria Porter is a junior history major. ller column appears every other Wednesday. She can lie contacted at kporter@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Ohserver. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports Claire Heininger Dan Tapetillo OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Megan O'Neil Ann Loughery Meghan Martin Chris Khorey 

Who are you voting for? 
Jeannine Privat Scene 

"The fight must go on. The cause ofcivil liberty 
Viewpoint Becca s·aunders 

must not be surrendered at the end ofone or even 
Eileen Duffy Illustrator Vote Thursday by 5 p.m. at 
100 defeats." 
Graphics Graham Ebetsch 

www.ndsmcobserver. com 
Desiree Zamora 

Abraham Lincoln former U.S. president 

THE 08SERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 27, 2004 page 13 
Stop justifying prejudice against homosexuals 
Reading the Oct. 13 issue of The because they may or may not follow have to deal with questions about By not doing so, all that is being Observer. I found the letter from Cody· many Catholic beliefs? I doubt anyone whether or not it is safe to hold my accomplished is a policy of hate, injus­Graeber to be incredibly upsetting. Not would say it is. boyfriend's hand in public instead of just tice, and pain. How would you feel if you only was its portrayal of homosexuality It seems to me that many heterosexual having a girlfriend and never having to were suddenly told your eye color was wrong. but so wen~ his views of how people seem to conceive homosexuals as worry? Likewise, by definition a disorder unacceptable in today's society? Or that homosexuality is being much more sexually active than must cause problems either for the per­because you and your partner have eyes to be viewed politi-Richard Friedman others. However, I know of no diFect cor­son or society. As far as I know, most of of that color, you can not marry or see cally and reli­relation between sexuality and sexual the problems related him as he is dying in giously. To begin, Guest Column acts. I realize that Graeber brought this to homose-xuality are the hospital? Few Graeber states the up when he said that we all should for the persons them­"How would you feel ifyou would accept that. cliche phrase that as Catholics we must struggle against this "hyper-sexualiza­selves -and these Just as we have come
were suddenly told your eye 
distinguish between the person and the tion" of society, but people never try and are caused by soci­to realize our past
color was unacceptable in
act. lie then uses this idea to contradict justify discrimination or intolerance of ety's reaction, not by mistakes in our treat­both Lance Gallop and The Princeton heterosexuals based on their sexual homosexuality. today's society? Or that ment of people of Review. Upon my last reading, however, past. Many who speak other races, ethnici­
because you and your
I saw no mention of sexual acts in either. Several bishops and others have tried publicly on this topic ties, religions and 
partner have eyes ofthat
Gallop stressed an acceptance of the to justify denying communion to homo­like to talk about hav­many other things, it homosexual as a human -the person as sexuals based on the reasoning that ing to walk a fine line color, you can not marry or is time for us to truly whole. And he encouraged us to ac<;ept their sexual acts are a sin, but I have between accepting accept homosexual 
see him as he is 

this person and the struggles never yet heard of a proposal people for who they people.
dying in the hospital?" 
they go through coming out by to screen out heterosexuals are and going over­Next time, instead supporting them both on a " ... why would based on their sexual actions. board and becoming of trying to justify personal basis and on a larger anyone choose Perhaps the question goes activists or prey to the "gay agenda." prejudice with reli!:{ious or political rhet­community-wide basis. No down deeper, to a place peo­Unfortunately, however, this is a com­oric look inside yourself and think of 
a life of

sexual acts happen with ple prefer not to go (as our pletely biased view. I've been gay for how you would want to be treated. If you 
discrimination,

either of those things. President did when he skirted almost 24 years now aHd out and active were gay, would you want people telling Similarly. The Princeton hardship and this question in the debate). Is both in my free time and in my studies of you something is wrong with you? Or Heview contains no implica­homosexuality a choice? Do homosexuality for almost five and I have would you want them to accept you and 
pressure?"

tion of sex in the question "Is gay men choose to be attract-yet to find any evidence of this "gay to treat you as their equal and to leave there little discrimination ed to men instead of women? agenda." In fact, all I have found are your personal life, sexual choices and against homosexuals?" To look at that Or is it some kind of disorder to be treat­confused and hurt people looking for personal relationship with God to your­question and say that it is okay to say ed? I can state unequivocally that homo­acceptance and equality. None of the self? I think we would all chose the sec­"yes" because morally we should not sexuality is not a choice or a disorder. I homosexuals I have met are looking for Dnd. accept homosexual acts is to distort the never chose to be gay and neither did any special privileges, but rather are question and merely attempt to justify a anyone else I know. In fact, the question searching for someone to stop discrimi­Richard Friedman is a former prejudiced response. If I asked if there is itself is absurd -why would anyone nation and finally put a policy of true Viewpoint columnist and occasionally discrimination against Muslims at Notre choose a life of discrimination, hardship acceptance and love for all of God's crea­writes guest columns. He can be contact­DamP would it be justifiable to say "yes" and pressure? Why would I choose to tures into practice. ed at rfriedma@nd.edu. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Voting with a Catholic conscience 
I have always tried to vote my Catholic conscience. This Catholic conscience has led me to vote more often for Democrats than Hepublicans in the past 20 years, and not because they are exemplars of virtue or represent any Catholic ideal. Instead, like most people of good con­science, I "hold my nose and vote" for the least offensive candidate on the bal­lot. 
Single-issue voting is a poor use of judgment. God has given us the capacity to think through and weigh complexi­ties. Good people led by their conscience arrive at differing conclusions. This is why the Catholic Church embraces no single party or political ideology. 
Many students have asked me my opinion on the coming election. I would never presume to violate their con­science by insisting on one candidate over another, but I will manifest my own conscience as we all are preparing to vote. 
In the history of the wofld, only two nations have slaughtered 40 million of their own people: the Soviet Union under Stalin, and the United States of America under legalized abortion. No election of the past 30 years has been so critical as this one for the issue of abor­tion. With as many as three or four of nine Supreme Court justices likely to retire from a court already evenly divid­ed on a whole host of cultural-moral issues like abortion and stem-cell research, the next President will have a unique opportunity to set the tone of Constitutiqnal Law for then next genera­tion. On the issue of abortion, he will name those who wili decide if America will give its blessing to another 40 mil­lion deaths. 
Why is abortion so important? 
Abortion is America's dirty vast secret. This atrocity dwarfs the Holocaust by a factor of six (or by 12 or by 18, depend­ing on how you count), yet so few people 
talk about it. While abortion was made 
legal to give women freedom, they often 
become prisoners of the secrecy which 
shrouds their choice. Tiny, beautiful, innocent human 
children, whom our human 
nature is wired to protect, 
are not the only victims 
of this tragedy. Often 
decades after the 
fact, mothers who 
have made this 
choice face 
their own 
consciences 
in waves of 
sorrow, 
regret, guilt 
and shame 
when they 
see babies 
in 
strollers, 
see their. 
former due 
date on a 
calendar, 
see others 
about the 
same age as their child would have been or look in the eyes of their 

children and recall 
the missing sibling. This trauma from which 
millions of women suffer is 

now common, but remains virtual­
ly unspoken in public settings. In a soci­
ety that has dared go public with every 
shame and former taboo, one still 
remains: the stories of millions of 
women who can bear their troubled 
spirits only in the silence of prayer 
before God or before a trusted fdend or 
perhaps a priest in a confessional. Today, abortion in the distant past is an almost common confession in parish­es across America. Having seen the heartbreak of so many women, so many years after their choice, as a priest I can 
attest to the now clear truth. The choice of abortion is bad for 
women -and not only for women, but bad for their boyfriends, 
their future hus­bands, their pres­ent and future 
families. Anything else that would do so much 
damage, cause so much pain 
and endur­ing trauma would be illegal. 
The Church and the Gospel 
call us to weigh in a balance all 


the various moral and practical factors that go into elect­ing any politician. In past years abor­tion had not weighed as heavily for me as other life issues, such as the 
nuclear threat during the Cold War. This year I have tried honestly to weigh in that sacred inner scale of conscience the good of a greater care for the poor, the good of ending capital punishment, the good of being more dovish than hawkish in foreign policy, all these goods and more against the evil spectre of another 30 years of legalized abor­tion; perhaps another 40 million dead, another 40 million anguished mothers. another countless many who will have some hand in this ongoing tragedy­and I can't. 
The Catholic Church is the only institu­tion in this nation which has resolutely opposed the practice of abortion since its federal legalization in 1973. However, the Church has been opposed to abor­tion not only for the last 30 years, but for the last 2000. A Catholic who pub­licly professes to oppose his private con­science in order to gain office for him­self, betrays the fact that he has no understanding of conscience. It is our sacred inner knowledge of the truth, and of what is good and evil that tells us how we must act publicly, even if it means to give our own lives for it. This is the Gospel. 
Ironically, it was Edmund Burke, an 18th Century British statesman who lost his seat in Parliament for taking pro­Catholic and pro-Irish positions, who said, "All that is necessary for evil to tri­umph is that good [people) do nothing..." Likewise, it is a shock to consider that all that is necessary for legalized abor­tion to remain a "right" in our land for some decades into the future is for good Catholics, other Christians and all peo­ple of conscience on this issue to ignore their consciences in a single act on a single day this November. 
This year as never before, my con­science leads me to vote like that single­issue voter I have held in disdain in the past. But, my advice to anyone who wishes to hear it, remains the same: However you vote, vote your conscience, even if it means you have to hold your nose. 
Father J. Steele, CSC 
Rector, Morrissey Manor 
Chaplain, Campus Ministry 

Assistant Holy Cross Vocations Director 
Ocr. 26 





CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, October 27, 2004 
Live! From Notre Dame's campus 
Regis Philbin ma.kes the most ofa weekend visit to his alma mater 
By MARIA SMITH, CHRISTIE 
BOLSEN, and MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Scene Editor and Assistant Editors 
More than almost any top university, 
Notre Dame is a school whose loyal fan 
following has almost reached cult status, 
and talk show host Regis Philbin is one 
of its favorite sons. 
The celebrity personality has become a household name and naturally his fan base grows enormously around the alma mater to which he still maintains strong ties. 
Although Philbin's returns to campus always cause excitement, last weekend's visit was particularly unique. If having a chance to see the famous "Live! with Hegis and Kelly" broadcast from Notre Dame campus was not enough, South Bend fans also had a chance to witness the host's foray into vocal performance in a benefit concert for the Center for the Homeless. 
Philbin was born on August 25, 1933, and grew up in the South Bronx. He was named after his father's alma mater. a Manhattan Jesuit high school. He served in the Navy after graduating from the University of Notre Dame in 1953 with a degree in sociology. 
He began his career in Hollywood working in several entry-level jobs, such as serving as a film-delivery person for KCOP-TV in Los Angeles. At that job, he wrote satirical pieces about the station's newscasts and tape them on the wall. Through this work he earned his first job as a writer in the entertainment industry. His job as a news and sports writer for the station led to a series of other news and feature jobs in television and radio. Eventually, he worked his way up to taking on news anchor posi­tions. 
The first talk show Philbin appeared on was "The Regis Philbin Show" on KGTV in San Diego, and it was from this that the now-famous "host chat" seg­ment that is used to open most of his talk shows evolved. Philbin couldn't afford a writing staff with the small budget the show was given, so he would just begin by talking about his own opin­ions and experiences instead of working with a pre-written script to introduce the rest of the show. This job led to "Philbin's People", which won an Emmy, and discussed current events with a variety of well-known personalities. 
Philbin took over as the host of Steve Allen's late night talk show, and gained national exposure as a sidekick on "The Joey Bishop Show". He continued to host a variety of shows, including two morn­ing shows, "A.M. Los Angeles" and "Temp". and two game shows, "The Neighbors" and "Almost Anything Goes". 

He joined Cindy Garvey on New York's "The Morning Show" in 1983, but the show did poorly until Garvey was replaced by Kathie Lee Gifford in 1985. The show became nationally syndicated in 1988 under the now well-known name, "Live! With Regis & Kathie Lee", and Philbin was nominated seven times for his role as a co-host. · In 1999, Philbin signed on as host for the American version of a British game show, "Who Wants to be a Millionaire?", which became hugely successful. It cemented Philbin's position as a pop-cul­ture icon and made the query "Is that your final answer?" a popular catch phrase. He inked a $20 million deal with ABC to continue hosting, which was an unprecedented amount of money for a game show host. 
In 2001, Kathie Lee Gifford decided to leave "Live!" to pursue her musical career, and ratings actually went up after her departure and soap star Kelly Ripa was announced as her successor. "Live! with Regis and Kelly" remains an incredibly popular national morning talk show. 
Philbin's television charm is well known, but his love for old-time croon­ers like Frank Sinatra and Bing Crosby is less famous. During the benefit concert Sunday night Philbin related how he used to listen to Crosby while mopping the floors in the old Huddlemart, where he worked for two years while he was a student. 
Although Philbin had dreams of becoming a singer during the early years after his graduation, that career path didn't seem plausible enough to justify his degree. 
Unbeknownst to many fans, Philbin actually recorded an album of old Crosby numbers in 1968 after sponta­neously being asked to sing "Pennies from Heaven" on the Joey Bishop Show. "It's Time for Regis!" failed to launch a musical career, although his role as Bishop's sidekick obviously turned out more profitably. 
Philbin has since earned the comfort­able celebrity status of being able to branch out from his main focus for other projects that strike his fancy. On Sept. 28 he released ''When You're Smiling," his second album of jazz-pop standards. This recording includes favorites like "It Had to be You" and "Cheek to Cheek," as well as duets with Irish tenor Ronan Tynan for "Too RaJ Loo RaJ Loo Ral" and his wife Joy for "They Can't Take That Away From Me." 
If his performance at the Leighton Concert Hall with the Notre Dame Pops Symphony is any reflection of his record­ed work, it's probably not worth rushing out to buy the album for any but a truly devoted Philbin fan ..If proceeds from the $30 and $100 tickets went towards his television salary, those might not be worthwhile either. 
But as a benefit for the Center for the Homeless, the performance was enter­taining and fully worth the money. Philbin is not a musical prodigy, but he does not lack talent. Old rat-pack favorites suit the wiseacre, who probably would have fit in admirably among their ranks. Although he sometimes stretched for a note, charity creates a forgiving audience. Philbin filled in the time between songs with enough stories of his early career and audience interactions to entertain any fan. 
His performance of "Calendar Girls" with six women from. the audience who were supposedly called up to see if any of them would be a fitting replacement for Ripa on "Live! with Regis and Kelly" was an especially good combination of a favorite musical number and Philbin's particular style. 
The entire audience seemed to enjoy the show. Even if they had not, the $80,000 raised for the Center for the Homeless would clearly make the show a success. 
Philbin concluded his campus visit with a live broadcast of "Live! with Regis and Kelly" from the Leighton Concert Hall. As soon as Philbin stepped onstage, the audience in the Leighton Concert Hall discovered that the on-camera fun keeps rolling long after the cameras stop. 
Most of Philbin's wisecracking repar­tee with the audience took place behind the scenes, with a Red Bull-caliber ener­gy boost provided by guest Martin Short's constant tbeatrical antics. Philbin began the program outside to show off campus sights like the Golden Dome and the Basilica, while sidekick Kelly Ripa bantered with him from the studio in New York. 
The next segment, a video montage, followed Philbin before, during and after the Boston College game and was an entertaining piece that served as a flat­tering advertisement for the university. The camera crew caught shots of him greeting fans, tossing footballs around the quad; scaring away flocks of ducks and even visiting his old room in Zahm. Once there, he found Short dressed as a student who hadn't quite mastered the "getting down from your bunk bed with­out face-planting" maneuver. 
There was footage of Philbiri preparing 
for his benefit concert for the Center for 
the Homeless. The brand-new 
Performing Arts Center received much 
admiration on national television as 
Philbin gushed about the educational 
and entertainment benefits of the PAC, 
even jokingly predicting that the next 
Brando would be trained there. 
The pace picked up after Short, who was funnier off camera than on. joined Philbin onstage. While Kelly interviewed Judge Judy back in New York, the come­.dian helped Philbin keep the Notre Dame audience amused by telling jokes about Kelly and commenting on Judge Judy's outfit. Short was a one-man cabaret with his dancing around stage, and even played for a few impressive minutes on the piano before insisting 
that he was "too shy" to continue. 
On camera, the two discussed the loss 
on Saturday to the Eagles, and elicited 
cheers after Short proclaimed that the 
Irish were a better team anyway. Off 
camera, Short asked Philbin questions in 
an impromptu interview. 
"Out of all your guests. who's been the 
drunkest?" 
The cheerleaders and leprechaun mas­
cot Edward Lerum rehearsed for their 
appearance by leading the crowd in a 
cheer and lifting Short, who was wear­
ing a green hat and clutching two pom­
poms, into a mini-pyramid. 
"You'd tell me if I looked foolish, 
wouldn't you?" he asked. He also 
informed Philbin that if he fell, he would 
"take your entire university down with 
me." 
After musical guest Finger Eleven 
played back in New York, Philbin 
brought the national spelling bee winner 
and South Bend native David Tidmarsh 
onstage and challenged him to spell 
"shillelagh" correctly, which he did. The 
Notre Dame Glee Club also performed 
the fight song, although their perform­
ance was unfortunately cut short by the 
ending of the show. 
Philbin spent much of his time during 
the taping pretending to be annoyed 
with the crew, which was rushing 
around to coordinate his appearances 
with Kelly's. When he requested a tissue 
at one point, he wondered out loud if 
they had brought him used ones. This 
prompted a crew member to bring him 
an entire box, but his good-natured irri­
tation didn't end. 
"I kill myself for a stinking $500,000 a 
show!" he cracked later. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu, Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu and Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 


--------------------------------------~-------------------~----------------------------------------­





CENE
Wednesday, October 27, 2004 
Second City performs at PAC 
The Legendary comedy troupe kept the audience laughing with improve, satire and Martin Short 

By SARAH VABULAS 
Scene Writer 
Friday night, one of comedy's leg­

·,1'endary groups came to Notre Dame's DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, performing in front of a packed house. While the audience was not made wholly of students, The Second City sketch and improvisational comedy did not fall by the wayside for the alumni that made their way into the seats of the Decio Mainstage Theatre. As the theatre lights came down, "Mad World" by Gary Jules -which one might know from the film "Donnie Darko" -grew louder, ceasing once The Second City cast assumed their positions on the stage. The Second City is currently celebrating its 45th Anniversary, therefore opening the show with a song about The Second City and what to expect in their show. The Second City is known for taking on current issues, political and other­wise. They certainly lived up to that reputation. After performing a satire about reality television shows, the cast wasted no time with poking fun at the recent Presidential debates, the media and current events. In the second act, 
they held a mock debate between three candidates. none of which really represented anyone involved in this election. This sketch took on a differ­ent meaning. They seemed simply to make ·up ridiculo'us stories about the candidates, as well as their positions on topics important to a presidential election. 
Since they were tackling issues through humor, the actors moved on to a mockery of marital counseling and the hilarious miscommunications between a husband and a wife that can lead to fights. One of their sketch­es talked about how when a woman says one thing, her husband should understand it as something else. This was one of the best skits the entire night, and the audience laughed until they nearly cried at parts. 
Following that, The Second City par­ticipated in one of their improv games, where the last line of the prior skit must be used as the first line for the proceeding one. 
A few more sketches and improv ses­sions followed before the first act con­cluded to make way for a short inter­mission. 
The second act began featuring cre­ative love songs from each decade since the '50s until present time. The actors sang and danced, while making fun of the music in each decade. 
A few more skits trailed before the closing song. But before anyone could make it out of the theatre, the acts reappeared for a completely impro-. vised third act with a special appear­ance by Martin "Short, who was on campus this weekend for the football game. Short was paired with one of the actor for a skit that poked fun at a student missing a final exam. 
Following the sketch, the actors paired up to make scenes from sug­gestions from the audience about places and objects that should be in the mini-skits. 
The Second City provided many laughs and entertainment for the audi­ence. This was a wonderful opportuni­ty for Notre Dame to have this talented group of actors perform. 
If you missed out on the performance The Second City is a short drive away to its Chicago theatre. For further information on The Second City or for tickets to future shows, visit their Web site at http://www.secondcity.com. 
Contact Sarah Vabulas at vabu4547@saintmarys.edu 

PATRICK RYANffhe Observer Left, two of the troupe members of The Second City perform a skit set in a car. Right, former Saturday Night Live cast member Martin Short made a surprise appearance In The Second City show. 
page 15 


October Treats 
Desserts and drinks with an hint of autumn and a Halloween flavor 
By MAUREEN MALLOY 
Scene Writer 
With the end of October fast approaching. a scary movie marathon is the perfect way to get into the Halloween spirit. The basics for this kind of party are simply some horror flicks and snack food, making it easy to organize. If you're ambitious, you can turn your room into a makeshift haunted house with fake spider webs, strings of colored lights, pumpkins and other decora­tions. Mix up the night's selections with a variety of movies, such as a cheesy one like "Prom Queen" fol­lowed by the suspenseful "Silence of the Lambs." The food should be sim­ple and easy to eat while everyone is huddled around your TV. Try some of these tasty Halloween treats... 
Double Delicious Halloween Bars 1/2 c Butter 1 1/2 c Graham cracker crumbs 14 oz Sweetened condensed milk 
12 oz Chocolate chips 1 c Peanut butter chips 
Preheat oven to 350F (325 for glass dish.). In 13x9 baking pan. melt but­ter in oven. Sprinkle crumbs evenly over butter; pour sweetened con­densed milk evenly over crumbs. Top with chips; press down firmly. Bake 25-30 min or until lightly browned. Cool. Cut into bars. Recipe courtesy of "Just Recipes" at www.melborponsti.com 
Baked Caramel Corn 1 c Butter 2 c Brown Sugar 112 c Corn syrup 
1 ts Salt · 1/2 ts Baking Soda 1 ts Vanilla 6 qt Popped Popcorn 
Melt butter; stir in brown sugar, corn syrup and salt. Bring t_o a boil, stir­ring constantly, then boil, without stirring for 5 minutes. Remove from heat, stir in soda and vanilla. 
-Gradually pour over corn. mix well. Turn into two large, shallow baking pans. Bake at 250 degrees F for 1 hour, stirring every 15 minutes. Remove from oven. Recipe courtesy of "Just Recipes" at www.melborponsti.com 1 shot vodka 1/2 shot Bailey's, Dooley's or a cream liqueur of your choice. Coca-Cola 
Swamp Thing Shake vodka and a cream liqueur of your choice with lots of ice in a cock­tail shaker. Strain into a highball glass with large ice cubes. Fill up with cola. Recipe courtesy of Drinkalizer.com 
Contact Maureen Malloy at mmal­loyl@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 27, 2004 
I 
GOLF 

I 
~ 
I 
I Memories of Stewart remain vivid for players 
Five years after the golfer's death, his peers reminisce 
Associated Press 
lAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. -Paul Azinger rarely plays in a golf tournament without something reminding him of Payne Stewart, and the memories were particularly strong during The Funai Classic at Disney. 
Monday marked the five­year anniversary of the plane crash that killed Stewart and five others. 
Disney was the last tourna­ment he played. 
Three days after he missed the cut by one shot, Stewart boarded a private plane for a meeting on a golf course project in Dallas and then to play the Tour Championship in Houston. The plane lost cabin pressure and flew 
uncontrolled across the 
country until it ran out of 
fuel and plunged into a field 
in South Dakota. 
Azinger and Stewart were partners for the first two pro-am rounds at Disney that year. Even though he shot 71-71, Stewart man­aged to make headlines by speaking in a mock Chinese accent on ESPN during a rain delay to retaliate for comments British golf ana­lyst Peter Alliss had made about the U.S. Ryder Cup team. 
"I watched him do it," Azinger said, smiling and shaking his head. "He comes over to me and says, 'Hey, that was pretty funny, huh?' I told him, 'Congratulations, Payne. You just insulted about 3 billion people."' 
Azinger remembers the loose lips, the pranks, the jabs. He remembers their favorite fishing spot behind the fifth hole on the Magnolia course, where they once came across a rattlesnake on a dirt path and hit 1-irons at it. Ask him about the Ryder Cup, and Azinger talks about the music Stewart brought: "Born in the USA" blared down the hallways of the hotel. 

Tom Lehman remembers, too. 
He delivered a powerful tribute to Stewart during a chilling ceremony before the start of the '99 Tour Championship, where an eerie fog shrouded the first fairway as players sat in shock. Lehman tries to have dinner with Stewart's widow, Tracey, every time he comes to Orlando for Bay Hill or Disney. 
"I think about Payne fairly frequently," Lehman said. "It could be anything-high­lights of a golf tournament, a guy in knickers, thinking about the Ryder Cup, coming to Orlando, getting on a pri­vate jet. You don't want to forget. I don't know if you want to dwell on what hap­pened five years ago, but you don't want to forget." 
Anyone who goes-in the locker room at Disney cannot forget Stewart. 
Past champions have their own row of lockers. Stewart's locker has a glass door to show its contents -a pair of red plus-fours on a hanger, a white shirt with his silhou­ette stitched in navy blue. A white tam-o'-shanter cap is on a hook above white shoes and a worn glove. A box of golf balls is on the top shelf. 
One look at the balls -a black box of Titleist Tour Prestige, a wound golf ball now obsolete -was a reminder of how long ago it seems that the reigning U.S. Open champion died. 
Even more startling was to see Stewart's son on the practice range early last week. Aaron i~ 15, a sopho­more on the junior varsity golf team at Olympia High in Orlando. 


NBA 

Stnith returns frotn injury to Bobcats to an 82-74 victory 
part of the Bobcats' "Cool couldn't make good on his
Smith scores 16 
School Field Trip," which promise to dunk on O'Neal, a points and chips in rewarded over 15,000 ki<;ls statement he made to rile up from 31 regional cities by giv­the students when announc­
nine rebounds ing them tickets to the game ing the event last month. 
for meeting academic But Okafor didn't play veryagainst Miami Heat requirements. much, either, spending a good Activity books were handed deal of time on the. bench as out to the students ahead of coach Bernie Bickerstaff tried 
Associated Press 
time, and they had to work on to rest some players while the exercises during timeouts. giving others a chance at 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. During one lesson on gravi­extended playing time. Theron Smith scored 16 ty, the Bobcats poured pop­Okafor was limited to nine points Tuesday to lead the corn from the rafters down minutes and Primoz Brezec, Charlotte Bobcats to their onto a section of students. who has emerged as a fan second win of the preseason, It made for a much looser favorite through the first few an 82-74 victory over the atmosphere -even for a pre­preseason games, was in Miami Heat. season game -with students street clothes. 
Smith, who missed the first behind the bench screaming The early tipoff may have five preseason games with an at Charlotte's Brevin Knight benefited the Bobcats, who injured left knee, came off the for an autograph as he waited are built around younger bench to shoot 6-for-11. He for an inbound pass_. players. added nine rebounds. "After the game," he yelled Although they trailed 20-18 
Melvin Ely added 14 points, back with a smile. at the end of the first quarter, Tamar Slay had 12 and Steve The largest cheers were they closed the first half with Smith scored 11 for the reserved for Shaquille O'Neal, a 15-6 run to take a 45-34 Bobcats. who didn't play, but received lead into the break. 
Dwyane Wade led Miami shrieks and applause when he Miami, which had been with 15 points. Michael came onto the court before turnover-free in the first Doleac added 13 and Rasual the game. quarter, had five in the sec­Butler scored 13. His absence meant ond quarter to contribute to 
The game began at 11 a.m., Charlotte star Emeka Okafor its halftime deficit. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining HaiL Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. Al dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The c~arge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
6·7 bdrm home close to NO. W/0, on-site parking. Avail. after 611/05. ALSO: 3 bdrm.home,W/0, near Corbys/St.Joe Church. Avail. now. Call Joe Crimmins:574-229-3659 or 679-2010. 
lOST & FOUND 
Lost, set of keys on silver key ring with etched letter A. If found please call Anikka at 634-1 057 
WANTED 
PART-TIME WORK Great pay, flex sched. ,saleslsvc.all ages18+,cond. apply, 273-4878 
FoR RENT 
DOMUS PROPERTIES-NOW LEASING FOR 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEARS. ONLY 6 HOUSES LEFT. WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-3-5-7 BEDROOM HOUSES, STUDENT NEIGHBOR­HOODS,SECURITY SYSTEMS, MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL, WASHER, DRYERS. 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER (574)234­2436 OR (574)315-5032. 
2·6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 
Walking distance from NO MMMRentals.com 532-1408 

LARGE 3 bd/2 ba. 4 blocks from campus on Sorin with w/d, garage and basement. Please contact Matt at 876-1456. $1,150/mo. 
TICKETS 
BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273-3911 
For Sale: NO football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. 
Wanted: NO football tix. Top $$$ 251-1570. 
NO ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232­2378 p.m. 288-2726 
Buying and selling NO football tix, especially Boston College 574-289­8048 NEED TICKETS Nov. 13 Pitt. Call Amy 219-872-5932 
PERSONAL 

Spring break 2005 Challenge .. find a better price! Lowest price specials! Free Meals! November 6th deadline! Hiring reps-earn free trips and cash! www.sunsplashtours.com 1·800-426-7710 
Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau, Jamaica From $4591 Panama City & Day1ona $1591 www.SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678·6386 
Ladies! Looking for a professional Full Body Waxing Dayspa? Kimberle Nicole uses only the best waxes that work for every type of hair. We specialize in Brazilian Bikini, Legs, Brows and much more. The Notre Dame MBA ladies rate us the #1 Dayspa for their waxing! Bring this ad and receive 1 0% off your visit. 574-257-3877 www.kim­berle-nicole.com 
Cold Season is here Flu-shot alter­native All Natural! Protect yourself from colds & flu. Contact Mandy Hosier 574-876-7525 AdvoCare.com or debtbusters@ure­ach.com 
Come see the decorations in Cavanaugh...they are just boo-tiful! 
CT wants the white lettuce 
What does a horseshoe do? Thank you Captain Obvious! Leave ... get out...now ...why waste 
of time! A best friend is someone who knows the song in your heart and 
can sing it back to you when you have forgotten the words. Less than two months til 
Christmaslll. 
don't you just love notre dame in the fall? just lovely! do you know what happens to peo­
ple who don't spell check? this page is like woah! 

Wednesday, October 27, 2004 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

During the 2004-05 academic year, the 40th anniversary of President Lyndon Johnson's speech at Howard University that articulated the rationale for affirmative action and announced his intention to issue Executive Order 11246 will occur. In recognition of this milestone in American History and the University of Notre Dame's leadership in the struggle to preserve this important institution throughout the past four decades, African and African American Studies announces "Rethinking Affirmative Action: Diversity, Racial Preferences, and Restitution." 
Fall2004 
Title: ~when Affirmative Action was White: An Untold Story of Racial IneQuality in America" Presenter: Ira Katznelson. Ruggles Professor of Political Science and History, Columbia University Date and Time: Thursday, October 28, 2004, 2to 4 p.m. Location: DeBartolo Hall, Room 102 

Title: "Ending 'Jane Crow': How Women's Workplace Affirmative Action Activism in the 1970s Changed AmericaH Presenter: Nancy Maclean, Associate Professor of History and African American Studies, Northwestern University Date and Time: Thursday, November 11, 2004, 2to 4 p.m. Location: DeBartolo Hall, Room 102 
Principal support for these talks has ooen provided by the 
Henkels Lectum Fund administered by the Institute for 

Scholarship in the liberal Arts, College of Arts and LettetS. 
Co-sponsors: Departments of History and Socioklgy, Graduate School of Arts and Scloncoo, Institute for Educational Initiatives, Multicultural Student Programs and Services, Office of Undergraduate Admiss3ons, Program In American Oem<x:tacy. Ptogram In Gender Studies 

Contact Afrlcan and African America. studies (www.nd.edu/~astudles) at (574) 631-5628 or Alvin TIIIQf)' at (574) 631-3676 for further Information about the oorles. 
Spring 2005 

Title: ''What is Wrong with the Affirmative Action Debate?" Presenter: Patrick L Mason, Associate Professor of Economics and Director of African American Studies, florida State University Date and Time: Monday, January 31, 2to 4 p.m. Location: TBA 
Title: "The Politics of Affirmative Action after the Michigan Cases" Presenter: linda Faye Williams, Associate Professor of Political Science, University of Maryland -College Park Date and Time: Monday, February 28, 2005, 2to 4 p.m. Location: TBA 
Title: "Understanding the Racial Achievement Gap in Suburban Schools" Presenter: Ron Ferguson, Lecturer on Public Policy at the Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University Date and Time: Thursday, March 31, 2005, 2to 4 p.m. Location: TBA 
Title: "The Ironies of Affirmative Action in the Posf Civil Rights Era" Presenter: John Skrentny, Professor of Sociology, University of California­San Diego Date and Time: Monday, April11, 2005, 2to 4 p.m. Location: TBA 
')'T'.n '>0~ 

page 18 Wednesday, October 27, 2004'
The Observer + SPORTS 

Associated Press 
PIIILADELPIIIA -Allen Iverson scored 19 points, and Kyle Korver hit four 3-pointers and added 15 points to lead the Philadelphia 76ers to a 97-86 preseason victory over the Utah Jazz on Tuesday night. 
The Sixers played their first game with coach Jim O'Brien's new lineup and rotation. 
Glenn Robinson and Samuel Dalembert were dropped from Philadelphia's starting lineup when O'Brien announced he put the first stamp on his new team. 
O'Brien. named veterans Aaron McKie and Marc Jackson and rookie Andre lguodala to the starting lineup. McKie beat out Willie Green to be the starter at shooting guard, Iguodala gets Robinson's old spot at small forward, and Jackson takes over from Dalembert at center. 
Iverson, who will play point guard rather than shooting guard, and Kenny Thomas will be the other starters for Philadelphia's season-opener Nov. 3 against Boston. 
Philadelphia (6-1) used its seventh different starting line­up in seven exhibition games. This one, though, is going to stick. 
The new roles weren't reflect­ed in minutes or production. Green played 24 minutes and scored 13 points while McKie played 16 minutes, missed all three shots from the floor and had one point. 
Dalembert scored seven points in 24 minutes, and Jackson finished with four points in 17 minutes. Iguodala scored 10 points in 31 minutes. 
Iverson pumped his fist and jumped off the bench during a nifty, off-balance layup by Iguodala in the second half. 
Andrei Kirilenko led the Jazz (3-3) with 14 points and Carlos Boozer added 10. 
"The Sixers went 34-for-44 from the line, while the Jazz shot 27-for-33. 

-
·­
NBA 



Utah suffers a 97-86 loss to Philadelphia 

Men's Basketball Walk-On Tryouts 
Thursday, October 28, 2004 
Main Arena (Joyce Center) 
7:00PM 
• Bring your gear ready to practice •Practice will be run by 


Head Coach Mike Brey and the Irish Staff 
•Any questions please call the office at 1-6225 
MLB 

Slugger Museum auctioning items 
tor. The museum's wish list
The public auction 

includes a complete set of bats from every slugger in the 500­
takes place on Nov. 6 

home run club. "It just makes sense for us to trade things, like you do base­
Associated Press 

ball cards," Jewell said. "In a trade. if there's something LOUISVILLE, Ky. -The you're lacking, you look at Louisville Slugger Museum is what you've got that someone having a rummage sale. else might be interested in and 
A Hall of Fame-caliber collec­that helps you acquire new tion of bats, balls, photos and things. other items will be up for bid­"We look at our collection ding at a public auction at the and we know there are some museum on Nov. 6. Many of the holes in it. We need to.stay items were dredged from a fresh and vital." warehouse and lile cabinets in The Jackson bat ligures to be the basement of the Hillerich & the auction's highlight. Cracked Bradsby Co.'s downtown muse­on the handle and worn on the um and factory, where the barrel, the bat has Jackson's trademark bats still are manu­signature along the hitting area factured. in bold ink. Bushing said the 
Marquee items include item likely will draw a price Louisville Sluggers handled by "deep in the six figures." "Shoeless" Joe The bat was Jackson, Ty acquired from
"There are things so
Cobb. Jim the estate of Thorpe and Babe unique in this Syd Smith, Ruth. The collec­Jackson's
auction that have 
tion also includes teammate and 
never been publicly 
a ball signed by close friend. both Ruth and sold" Bushing said Lou Gehrig, a there's no Cleveland proof Jackson
David Bushing
Indians jersey used the bat, 
expert
worn by Satchel but it is the Paige and a let­only known ter handwritten one auto­by Ruth with six of his signa­graphed by the enigmatic tures at the bottom. Jackson, who batted .356 in 
"There are things so unique 1908-20. Although acquitted by in this auction that have never a jury on charges he helped fix been publicly sold," said David the 1919 World Series, Jackson Bushing, a bat expert and was banned from baseball in authenticator. "It's going to be 1921 by commissioner quite an event for collectors." Kenesaw Mountain Landis and 
Proceeds from the auction never made the Hall of Fame. will create a fund the museum "I don't know if the Jackson will use to obtain other base­bat is the star of the show, but ball artifacts, said Anne Jewell, it's definitely going to be in the the museum's executive direc-top five," Bushing said. "The 
fact that it could have been 
used by Joe Jackson adds to 
the mystique. If there was 
proof it was Joe Jackson's 
game bat -one that he used 
in games -with his autograph 
on it, we'd be talking about 
millions of dollars." 
The Thorpe bat still has a ring of black handle tape. ball marks on the barrel and two small cobbler's nails ham­mered into the end. Thorpe believed tlw n ai Is would strengthen the bat and had them inserted at a shop strm~ in Ohio. 
Thorpe was stripped of' tlw two gold medals he won at the 1912 Olympics because he had signed a s-emipro contract before the games. lie signpd with the New York Giants in 1913 and played in the majors for six seasons. The bat dates from between 1917 and 1920. 
Like the Jackson bat, the Thorpe model was consigned to the auction from outside tlw museum. 
The gem of the museum's contributions is a bat used by Cobb, circa 1911-15, with grease-pencil markings made on the side. The markings were not made by Cobb. but by llenry Morrow, Ilillerich & Bradsby's receiving agent in Cobb's era. 
When a player returned a bat to the factory, Morrow wrote the date, the player's name and the city or team where the bat originated. Bushing said tlw markings increase the bat'.s value. which he guessed at between $100,000 and $125,000. 
"Side-writing in the world of bat collecting is as good as a letter of authenticity," Bushing said. 

Low Rate Auto Loansl 

The same rate on new or used-leaves our competition in the dust. 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
Wednesday, October 27, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Tim_berwolves rem_ain favorites with several returning players 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS The Minnesota Timberwolves are among the favorites in the Western Conference, largely because all the key players are back from last season's team that nearly made the NBA Finals. 
But with a week to go until the regular season, two of their biggest stars -Latrell Sprewell and Sam Cassell -have raised doubts about their long-term futures with the team. And Wally Szczerbiak has made it clear he wants a bigger role. 
Cassell and Sprewell, who form Minnesota's "Big Three" with league MVP Kevin Garnett. want contract extensions. 
Sprewell has publiely said he wants an extension before next the opener against New York or he'll ask for a sign-and-trade deal after the season or become a free agent. Cassell was upset enough about not getting an extension that he skipped the team's media day and first day of training camp. 
"Me and Spree, we deserve extensions," Cassell said this week. ''There's no other way to say it. You can't sugarcoat it." 
The Big Three formed the 
NBA's highest-scoring trio last season and led the Wolves to the Western Conference finals, where they lost in six games to the Los Angeles Lakers. But ·cassell barely played in that ·series because of a hip injury that caused painful back spasms. 
Cassell is convinced the out­
come would've been different 
had he been healthy. 
"I know for a fact we'd be cele­
brating our first championship in 
the city right now," Cassell said. 
Cassell, never one to bite his 
tongue, thinks the Wolves need 
to pay more if they want to keep 
him and Sprewell, who wasn't 
available to reporters after prac­
tice Tuesday. 
Neither Sprewell's agent, 
Robert Gist, nor Timberwolves 
owner Glen Taylor immediately 
returned phone messages seek­
ing comment. Cassell's agent, 
Charles Tucker, couldn't immedi­
ately be reached. 
Kevin McHale, Minnesota's 
vice pre~ident of basketball 
operations, has said he also 
wants to get Sprewell an exten­
sion before the season starts. 
Sprewell is due to make $14.6 
million this season. Last week, 
he told the St. Paul Pioneer Press 
he doesn't want to take a pay 
cut, but at 34, the Wolves could 
be hesitant to oblige. 


AP Minnesota's Latrell Sprewell drives to the basket around Atlanta Hawks' AI Harrington In a pre­season game Oct. 14. Minnesota defeated Atlanta 99-96. 
MLB 
Francona is not getting con1fortable 
AP 

Boston manager Terry Francona answers questions at a news conference on Tuesday at 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Brezina etnotionally walks away from. gam.e 
Georgia Tech player suffered from disease that causes narrowing ofspinal cord 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Brad Brezina 
feels just fine, which might be 
the worst part of all. 
If he wants to lift weights, go 
right ahead. If there's a pickup 
game down at the basketball 
court, he's in. 
He just can't do the one thing 
he loves more than anything _ 
play football for Georgia Tech. 
"I went and ran the other 
day. I'm in shape. I feel good," 
Brezina said. "My body feels 
perfectly fine to go out there 
and practice. It's tougher when 
I think about it in that regard." With a heavy heart, he has had to walk from the sport that took his father all the way to the NFL. Brezina, a sophomore who started the first four ·games of the season at offen­
sive guard, had little choice 
after experts on both coasts 
diagnosed a genetic condition 
that causes a narrowing of the 
spinal cord. 
If he continued to play, one 
good lick in the right spot 
could have left him paralyzed 
from the neck down. 
"''m not going to be stupid 
about this," Brezina said. "I 
had to look at all my angles, 
but when you get reports from 
two experts in the field, you're 
not going to overlook it by any 
means. There's no doubt this is 
the right decision." 
Not that it's easy to accept. 

Football runs in the family, most notably with his father. Greg Brezina was a linebacker for the Atlanta Falcons in the 1960s and '70s. His son yearned to follow the same career path. 
"It's been real tough," Brad said, struggling to hold back the tears. "This is something I've had a passion for since I was a kid. It's just one of those things you grow up wanting to do." 
-

After starting his college career on the defensive line, Brezina shifted to offense this season. He earned a starting job and seemed to have a bright future. · 
One jarring hit against Miami changed all that. 
Brezina has watched the play on film. He was doing all the right things as he prepared to block a linebacker -head up, shoulders back -but he knew right away that some­thing was wrong. Crumpling to the turf at Bobby Dodd Stadium, Brezina couldn't move his arins or legs for a few frightening seconds. 
"It's something I would not want to do again," he said somberly. 
Still, reality didn't set in immediately. Brezina regained the feeling in his limbs and wanted to go back in the game. He thought it was merely a "stinger" -a jarring of the spine that is common in foot­ball, causing temporary paral­ysis in extreme cases. 
Wisely, the trainers recog­nized that his condition was more serious. 

Busch Stadium. 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Terry Francona knows better than to get com­fortable. 
He may have been sitting on top of the world, just one win away from bringing the World Series trophy back to a town that has waited 86 torturous years to throw itself a party, but the Red Sox manager hardly needed reminding how precarious that perch can be. He might be the last man in baseball, in fact, who needs to hear how this can be a fickle game. 
Hi's predecessor iri Boston was fired after getting within a game of the World Series, so there was never any doubt how the job description read the day Francona signed a contract. 
In Philadelphia, during his only previous stop as a big­league manager, Francona left the ballpark one day to find somebody had slashed his tires -on Fan Appreciation Day, no less. 
But that wasn't the only rea­son why, even after his Red Sox pulled steadily away to a 3-0 lead over the St. Louis Cardinals in the best-of-seven series, Francona fidgeted in the dugout and nervously shifted the plug of chewing gum in his mouth from cheek to cheek. 
"Anybody ever seen me play when I was a player?" Francona asked reporters after Boston's 4-1 win Tuesday night. "You can understand why I never get too confident." 

Self-deprecation is a lost art in the major leagues, but Francona could be the man to revive it. With one more victo­ry, he becomes living proof that nice guys don't always finish last. 
That was the rap against him in Philly, where Francona strung together an unimpres­sive 285-363 mark before being chased out of town in 2000 amid talk that his own players ran him over. 
But that was the strange thing about his rebirth in Boston. The very same quali­ties that made him a patsy in one clubhouse made him a hero in another. 
page 20 Wednesday, October 27; 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
GOLF 



ABC to bring Azinger, Faldo to the broadcasting booth 
The two last faced each other in a close Ryder cup final 
Associat<d Press 
LAKE BUENA VISTA. Fla. ­Paul Azinger and Nick Faldo are linked by a dynamic Ryder Cup match in which neither player wanted to lose, even after they had nothing to gain. 
In the final pairing at The Belfry in 1993, Faldo took the lead with an ace on the 14th. Azinger answered with a birdie to square the match. 
And although the United Statf\S already had clinched victory, they battled to the very end, with Azinger pouring everything into a 12-foot birdie on the 18th hole for a halve. 
"The last time I talked to Nirk Faldo. he shook my hand at the Hyder Cup," Azinger said. 
The nr.xt time could be in the broadcast booth at ABC Sports. 
Two sources connected to ABC, both speaking on condi­tion of anonymity, told The Associated Press that the net­work will announce next week at the Tour Championship 
that  Azinger  "The last time I  entire crew, from  
and Faldo will share the booth with  talked to Nick Faldo. he shook my hand at  cameramen to announcers, and the resounding  
host  Mike  the Ryder Cup. "  response was that  
Tirico  for  a  the telecast needed  
majority  of  more energy.  
ABC's  golf  Paul Azlnger  He  considered  
telecasts next  golfer  taking  the  lead  

year. 
"I can't answer that," said Mar.k Loomis, wrapping up his first full season as ABC's coordinat­ing producer for golf. 
Azinger, who first dabbled in television at the '95 Ryder Cup when he was recovering from cancer, is among five players who worked sparingly with ABC this year as the network tried to find a replacement for Curtis Strange. 
"I don't want to be a full-time broadcaster," Azinger said. 
Faldo worked with ABC at the British Open and the American Express

-
Championship. lie said in Ireland that he would like to work a d·ozen tournaments for ABC as a way to keep in touch with golf. The sources said minor d1~tails were being worked out this week as ABC tries to com­plete its lineup
-
of talent. 
The other net­ "We are definitely  one  as  it tried  to  
works have only one analyst in  going to be  chart a new course. Loomis says there  
the  booth:  different next  is no  model for golf  
Johnny Miller at NBC, Lanny  year.  coverage, although having two analysts  
Wadkins at CBS.  in the booth would  
"We are defi­ Mark Loomis  break the mold. As  
nitely going to  ABC producer  he  spoke,  ESPN's  

be different next year," Loomis said. ''I'm really excited about what we're planning." 
It would be the latest wrinkle in a season of change for Loomis, who was hired about this time last year when Jack Graham resigned as ABC's golf producer. 
ABC is often perceived as the weak link among network golf coverage, in part because of its schedule. 
CBS has the Masters and the PGA Championship, along with highly rated PGA Tour events 
analyst out of the 
booth and putting him on the course, although that never happened. The one experiment he liked was get­ting an on-course commentator to the ball quickly to explain what the player is facing on the next shot. 
"Logistically, it's hard to make that happen," Loomis said. "We have to have a cam­era out there right away. And the best time to go to commer­cial is when they hit their tee shot, because it's a long walk. I don't want to do this just to do it. I want to do it when it makes sense." 
The biggest change was when Strange resigned in June after nine years in the booth. Strange turns 50 next year and will be eligible for the Champions Tour, although he was interested in staying with ABC if he could get a long-term 
commitment. 
ABC didn't offer 
college football 
show was on the tel­evisiOn behind him -with Chris Fowler, Lee Corso and Kirk Herbstreit. 
"Who says it has to be two, three, four people?" Loomis said. "It depends on the per­sonalities and the mix. My hope is we put the right mix together. If I had to say any­thing about what the future holds, it's that we'll have a bet­ter mix of personalities. 
"Don't get me wrong -golf is the most important part, how we present it," he said. "I early in the season (Pebble can do a million things produc­viewer might subliminally tained. But consciously, you Beach) and in the spring tion-wise, and the average notice or might be more enter-really notice the announcers." 

(Wachovia, Byron Nelson, Memorial). NBC has the fewest tournaments. but scores with the Florida swing, the U.S. Op~n and the Ryder Cup. 
"Whoever has the Masters is always going to be the greatest focus. That's one golf tourna­ment that sticks out," Loomis said. "And Johnny Miller has made a huge difference in golf television. I don't think we're third, but that's not my deci­sion. I can just tell you we're trying to make it better." 
Loomis, 37, started his career in 1990 by paying his way to golf tournaments to work as a runner. 
He researched statistics for Brent Musburger in 1992, moved up to a production assistant and has spent the last seven years producing college football and basketball for ABC. 
llis marching orders as the golf producer were tall. 
"They said, 'Let's make this the best golf coverage on TV,"' Loomis said. "And in order to do that, you have to try a bunch of things." 
The first step was produc­tion. Loomis sent out a· questionnaire to his 


Wednesday, October 27, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Purdue needs a win after last two straight losses 
:E:e~~~~~­

son. She even made the fami­ly's July trip to Africa, where
<>~d....<>m~::a:.-f~IS~ ::i..tS~ m<> ;atI I ~IS c:I.::i..~IS~::rll. 
the 55-year-old coach climbed 
Mount Kilimanjaro. "She's just gone on with life," Smith said. "She's out every 
..LV...I...::i..~~<><::.h.. 15~~~-t.f::i..:lr.a..c:I.~""t-
Its true. 
day, taking care of every­thing." ­Diana Smith protects her pri­
Okdomerfest is the place to be 
vacy and typically does not do interviews. But her husband

Wednesday night. 
says her positive attitude has helped him stay upbeat. The illness also has sparked some personal reflection for Smith. well-known for his humor and affection for his players. 
The Smiths. marfied 34 years with three adult chil­dren, are both from Idaho Falls, Idaho. But they haven't had a well-defined home since 
.Smith began his college coach­ing career as a graduate assis­tant at Weber State in 1971. 
Assistant coaching jobs fol­lowed at Montana, N eva.da. Idaho, Wyoming and Washington State. Smith became Idaho's head coach in 1989, and led programs at
sponsored by the german dub. nd_edu(...... grl/germdub_hfm 
Utah State and Louisville 
before moving to Michigan
brought to you by the student union board. SUB.ND.EDU GUt) 
State after the 2002 season. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------~----­
ranks 105th in the nation 

Associated Press 
against the pass. 
"There are not a lot of defens­

WEST LAFAYETTE. Ind. -es in the nation comparable to Northwestern might not have Wisconsin and Michigan, but Michigan's pedigree or (Northwestern's) front four is Wisconsin's lofty ranking in the good," quarterback Kyle Orton AP Top 25. but that hasn't said. "It will be nice to see a dif­stopped No. 17 Purdue from ferent style of defense where calling Saturday's game against they're not going to get up in the Wildcats the biggest of the your face ·and jam and hold year. you." 
The Boilermakers (5-2, 2-2 The Boilermakers have Big Ten) are reeling after drop­expressed frustration with a ping two heartbreakers in a perceived lack of pass interfer­row at home to the Badgers and ence penalties called by offi­Wolverines. cials. 
Purdue's best start -since 1945 "It's part of the rules, and it's now seems like a distant memo­not being enforced," Tiller said ry for a team that ·is suddenly plainly. "To say I'm not happy desperatr. just to get a victory. with this would. be an under­
"We need to find a way to win statement." a football game. if that's possi­After catching 35 passes for ble," Purdue coach Joe Tiller 568 yards and 11 touchdowns said. "And we think it is." in the first five games, star 
The 13oi1Prmakers could not receiver Taylor Stubblefield has ask for better timing to play been manhandled over the last Northwestern (3-4. 2-2). Purdue two. managing just four catches has defeated "the Wildcats seven for 50 yards and no scores. straight timPs. only once by a The physical Wisconsin and margin less than eight points. Michigan secondaries dared 
And finally, after facing two of officials to throw the flag, and it the best defenses in the country worked. in consecutive weeks. Purdue's Tiller expects to see more of high-powered offense finally the same the rest of the season. gets a breather against a "I suspect every team will try Northwestern defense that that against us," Tiller said. "If 
Notre Dame Opera 





AUDITIONS 
Audition dates: October 29, 2004 
3:00 pm to 5:30 pm 

SIGN UP IN CROWLEYHALL RM. 105 OR CONTACT JOHN RILEY-SCHOFIELD 631-5175 
Auditions will be held in the Annenberg Auditorium, basement of the Snite Museum of Art. 

Please bring one prepared aria or song (from memory) and music for the pianist. An accompanist will be provided. Opera performance dates are April 8 -9, 2005 
ALL ARE INVITED! . 


you're playing against Purdue, Their secondary plays prima­see a lot of man-to-man cover­wouldn't you do it? I would." rily in zone schemes, and Orton age ori Saturday in Evanston, The Wildcats may not. said he would be surprised to Ill. 
-

Wife's illness affects Smith's outlook 
spective on life. The Mayo Clinic confirmed the 
Associated Press 
"Di has kept us positive," diagnosis. Smith said. "And I guess I just Unwilling to accept that 
EAST LANSING, Mich. -refused to believe what we .determination. the Smiths Michigan State coach John L. were being told. You go from turned elsewhere. Smith sat in his office last terminal to a feeling that we The team from the University week contemplating football -can handle this -so you go of Michigan Medical Center and life. from a dark day to a sunny determined the tumor could be 
He has had plenty of big day." of the desmoid variety, which questions related to both this Smith, preparing his is far less threatening. About season, because his wife was Spartans (4-3, 3-1 Big Ten) for two weeks ago, a team at diagnosed with cancer. Saturday's game against No. Boston's Dana-Farber Cancer 
Diana Smith first got the 12 Michigan (7-1, 5-0). has Institute agreed. news this summer, after a mixed feelings about his A desmoid tumor probably large tumor was removed from archrival these days. It was a would reappear at the same her colon during emergency University of Michigan medical spot and grow more slowly. It surgery. The first diagnosis team that gave the Smiths also would be more treatable was that her case was termi­their best news in four months. with drugs. nal. But better news followed, At first, doctors told the 55-A colon exam earlier this giving the Smiths hope, and year-old Diana Smith she had month "looked good," Smith giving the typically upbeat, a stromal tumor a rare but said. The worst consequence high-energy coach a new per-typically fatal type of cancer. for Diana Smith has been some 
anemia, but she hasn't missed -­a Spartans road trip this sea­
r 
AROUND THE NATION 
Page 16 
Women's Soccer Top 25 
team  record  
1  North Carolina  15·0·1  
2  NOTRE DAME  16·0·1  
3  Penn State  14·1-1  
4  Virginia  13·2·1  
5  Portland  15·3·0  
6  UCLA  11·5·0  
7  Princeton  12·1·0  
8  Santa Clara  11-4·2  
9  Kansas  15·3·0  
10  Washington  12·3·1  
11  Tennessee  11-3·2  
12  Florida Slate  12·4·1  
13  Florida  12·3·3  
14  Texas A&M  13·5·0  
15  Duke  12·5·0  
16  Auburn  13·2·2  
17  Ohio State  11·3·3  
18  Stanford  10·4-2  
19  California  9·4·2  
20  West Virginia  4·4·0  
21  Connecticutt  14·5·0  
22  Clemson  10·6·0  
23  Texas  11·5·1  
24  Maryland  7·4·3  
25  Illinois  11-4·2  

Men's Soccer Top 25 
team  record  
1  UNC-Greensboro  14·0·1  
2  NOTRE DAME  12·2·2  
3 (tie)  Creighton  12·2·0  
3 (tie)  Virginia  13·2·0  
5  Indiana  11·3·1  
6  UCLA  9·2·2  
7  Southern Methodist  12·3·0  
8  New Mexico  11-1·1  
9  IJC-Santa Barbara  12-2·1  
10  Washington  10·3·2  
11  Wake Forest  9·3·1  
12  St. John's  9·3-4  
13  Santa Clara  11·3·0  
14  Maryland  10·4·1  
15  Duke  13·3·0  
16  Boston College  1·3·1  
17  James Madison  13·1·1  
18  California  9·3·2  
19  VIrginia  9·4-1  
20  Commonwealth  8·3·5  
21  Penn State  7·3·2  
22  South Florida  10·5·1  
23 (tie)  Seton Hall  6·3·5  
23 (tie)  Memphis  10·3-1  
25  Old Dominion  10·3-2  

AVCA Volleyball Top 25 
team record 
1 Washington 17·0 

--2 Minnesota 20·2 3 Hawaii 18·0 4 Nebraska 17-1 5 Southern Cal 12·3 6 Penn State 11·2 1 Ohio State 19·1 8 Florida 18·2 
g 
Colorado State 16·2 10 Texas 17-2 11 Stanford 15·5

-
12 UCLA 13·5 13 California 13·5 14 Saint Mary's (CA) 11-7 15 Texas A&M 17-2 16 Tennessee 12·5 17 UTah 19·2 18 Kansas State 16·3 19 santa Clara 14·4 20 UC Santa Barbara 14·3 21 Illinois 14·5 22 San Diego 14-4 23 Louisville 18·2 24 Arizona 12·7 25 Florida A&M 17-2 
around the dial 
WORLD SERIES Boston at St. Louis 7 p.m., FOX 
POKER World Series of Poker 6:30 p.m. ESPN 

CoMPILED FROM TilE ()l\SERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Wednesday, October 27, 2004 
WORLD SERIES 

Associated Press 

ST. LOUIS -Get ready, Boston. There's no other outcome now: Pedro Martinez. Manny .Ramirez and the Red Sox will either win the World Series or add another historic col­lapse to their legend. 
They'll either reverse The Curse that's plagued the team since 1918 or they'll fall apart, just as they did the last four times they got this close. 
Martinez made his long· awaited Series debut a spe­cial one, bailed out when Ramirez and David Ortiz did as much damage w!th their arms as bats. Backed by the surprising show of defense, Boston cruised past St. Louis 4-1 Tuesday night for a 3-0 lead and left a crowd that loves its Cardinals booing the home team. 
Until this October, it was considered almost impossi­ble for any baseball team to recover from such a deficit in the postseason. No one had ever done it ­that is, until the Red Sox bounced back to stun New York in the AL champi­onship series. 
And now, after being only three outs away from get· ting swept last week, Boston is on the verge of sweeping the club that led 
IN BRIEF 

Foster latest Pacer bitten by
injury bug 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indjana Pacers center JefT Foster will have hip sur­gery Wednesday and is expected to miss four to six weeks, further depleting the team's front court. 
Foster is scheduled to undergo arthroscopic surgery on his right hip. He has been hampered by the injury since before training camp, but did­n't believe it to be serious until it flared up this week. 
"It's a clean-out type thing, not a tightening thing or reattachment deal," Pacers coach Rick Carlisle said Tuesday. "But it is weight bearing. So we'll just have to see." 
His emergence as a legitimate hus­tler and rebounder played a big role in the Pacers' success last season. He averaged 6.1 points and 7.4 rebounds in his first season as a starter. 
Scot Pollard, who has looked sharp in the preseason, will fill Foster's spot in the starting lineup. 
the majors in wins this year and claiming the ulti· mate prize. 
Derek Lowe will try to finish it off Wednesday night, with Jason Marquis starting Game 4 for St. Louis. 
Pitching a day after his 33rd birthday, Martinez threw seven innings of shutout ball, holding the limp Cardinals to three hits and retiring his final 14 batters. 
Ramirez put Martinez ahead with a first-inning homer and the three-time Cy Young winner held it, helped by superb defense and shaky baserunning. Added up. the Red Sox set a team record with their seventh straight postsea­son win. bettering the streak of six capped ofT by Babe Ruth's win in the 1916 Series. 
That Martinez won was hardly amazing. That Boston's defense con­tributed was downright shocking. 
The Red Sox made eight errors and still won the first two games. 
This time, they were flawless in the field -and maybe even better than that. 
Ramirez threw out Larry Walker at the plate from left field to end the first inning. 

Foster's injury is the latest to hit the front court. Forward/center Jermaine O'Neal could be held out of the remaining preseason games with a nagging ligament strain in his left foot, and rookie David Harrison has missed time with a shoulder injury. Man sentenced in baseball 
rivalry. shooting 
LOS ANGELES -A man was sen­tenced Tuesday to 50 years to life in prison for shooting a man to death in a Dodger Stadium parking lot after an argument. 
Pete Marron, 20, was convicted in August of first-degree murder in the Sept. 19, 2003, killing of Marc· Antenorcruz, 25. The jury also found Marron guilty of using a handgun in the attack. 
Prosecutors said Marron shot Antenorcrilz during a dispute near the end of a game between the Dodgers and San Francisco Giants. Pqlice said the shooting apparently involved fan rivalry. Antenorcruz was described by family members as 
a Giants fan. Sore thigh forces Federer's 
withdrawal 
BASEL, Switzerland -Roger Federer pulled out of the Swiss Indoors after hurting his left thigh in a practice session Tuesday, while Taylor Dent and Paradorn Srichaphan exited with upset losses. 
The top-ranked Federer will need to rest up to two weeks and could miss the Paris Masters and season~ ending Tennis Masters Cup, which starts Nov. 17 in Houston. 
As a kid, Federer was a ball boy at this tournament, which he's never won. 
"This is a huge disappointment for me, clearly," said Federer, the first man since 1988 to win three Grand Slam titles in a season. "But all I can do is wait again until next year." 
The man who replaced him in the draw. Bohdan Ulihrach, reached the second round when Luis Horna quit with lower back pain after losing the first set 6-1. 
---~---~-­
Wednesday, October 27, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NFL 
Titans' plan to avoid rebuilding is unraveling 
admitted. Associated Press General manager Floyd Reese took over this franchise in 
NASHVILLE, .Tenn. -Six 1994, forced to rebuild a playoff hours before kickoff, doctors team torn apart by the NFL's removed Shad Meier's appen­new salary cap. He watched his dix. leaving the Tennessee Houston Oilers go 2-14 that Titans with only one healthy season. tight end: rookie Ben Troupe. Since 1995, Reese and Fisher 
That forced coaches to scrap have worked with a simple phi­all plays with two tight ends, a losophy: build through the staple of the offense, and drop draft, identify a core of top plays specially designed for players each season, let pricey Troupe to use his physical skills veterans leave and rely on the and minimize his inexperience. coaching staff to teach the 
After the last-minute changes, youngsters. the Titans lost for the first time The strategy led to a 56-24 to the team that replaced them record from 1999 to 2003, with in Houston. the Texans. an AFC championship and play­
"Every week, there's some­off berths in four of the five sea­thing wrong injury-wise, and sons. it's very frustrating," Steve But the Titans, crunched by McNair said. the cap, made too many wrong 
The Titans thought they could moves this offseason, and they sneak under the salary cap this are paying for it. year. rely on the draft to restock They let Jevon Kearse and the roster and avoid the Robaire Smith leave for big rebuilding other teams in simi­money in Philadelphia and lar situations faced. Houston, respectively, and tried 
So much for those plans. to replace them by drafting five 

Now the franchise that defensive linemen. entered 2004 tied for most wins Kearse now has four sacks in since 1999 is trying to salvage a Philadelphia and has been a season that started with Super defensive catalyst in the Eagles' Bowl dreams and is being 6-0 start. His Tennessee undermined by injuries and replacements have been so inexperience. ineffective Fisher had to switch 
"It's kind of a new situation Kevin Carter back from tackle Tennessee's wide receiver Eddie Berlin, middle, throws down a cup of Ice In the closing moments for us," coach Jeff Fisher to end. of his team's 20-10 loss to Houston on Oct. 17. 
Colts wish to itnprove returns and coverage 
AP 

Jacksonville's kicker Josh Scobee kicks the winning field goal to defeat Indianapolis last Sunday. The Jaguars won 27-24. 
better. At one point, Dominic
Associated Press 
Rhodes fielded a kickoff in the 
INDIANAPOLIS Tony end zone, hesitated, started to Dungy sounds the same warn­come out then downed it just ing message each week: To before stepping on the goal reach the Super Bowl, the line. Indianapolis Colts have to get And then there was the kick better on offense and defense. coverage. 
After Sunday's 27-24 loss to Jacksonville's average drive Jacksonville, Dungy has a new started at the 35, the Colts' at concern: Improving kickoff their own 17. ­coverage and kickoff returns. Of the Colts' five kickoffs. the 
Six games into the season, Jaguars were backed inside the Colts are ranked No. 32 in their own 30 once -when kickoff in coverage and 15th in they started at their own 26 on the AFC in kickoff returns. It's the opening possession of the clearly not what Dungy second half. expected after dedicating That must get better this about a quarter of all training week when the Colts face one camp practices exclusively to of the NFL's most dangerous 
-
special teams. returners, Dante Hall. 
"We're last in the AFC in "Teams are doing a lot of dif­both. and that's hard to do," ferent things to them, spread­Dungy said. "On Sunday, we ing the blocking units out, not looked like we did not practice letting him catch it on the run. at all. It looked like the first things like that," Dungy said. day of training camp." "They're not giving him those 
There will likely be a special batting practice-type returns. emphasis placed on the kick­But with Dante Hall. we've got ing game this week after to kick better and return bet­Sunday's dreadful perform­ter. too." ance. The Colts could be helped by 
It started when James the possible return of kick Mungro fielded the opening returner Brad Pyatt, who kickoff at the Colts 13 and took missed Sunday's game after one step to his left -out of re-injuring his right ankle in bounds. Things didn't get any practice last week. 



Wednesday, October 27, 2004 
page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Keady's final days at Purdue begin 


Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. ­Gene Keady's final days as coach at Purdue have begun. 
Keady is in his 25th and last season as head of the Boilcrrnakcrs. but he's not feel­ing sentinwntal ... yet. 
"It's the same as usual. busi­ness as usual." Keady said Tuesday at Purdue's annual media day. 
"It's nice to know this will be my last nwdia day," he joked. "Then~ are a lot of 'lasts' happen­
"It's nice to know
ing these days." It's not a dual Arter this sea­this will be my last role. It's a dicta­son. Knady will torship."
media day."
step aside and One that has, hand the head for the most part. job to former Gene Keady been successful Boilermaker Purdue coach over the last 24 
at Purdue this season. He's stiH very much involved in the day­to-day operations. and it is still his team. 
When asked if it would get awkward bf~tween the coach of the present and the coach of the future if Painter stepped on his toes. Keady replied. "There won't be any toe-stepping. because I'm running the show." 
Painter could not have agrP.ed more. 
"It's uncharted waters that this is happening. but we're familiar with each other." Painter said. "I am his assistant. 
Matt Painter, who was hin•d from Southern Illinois in thn offseason to serve as an assistant for one year bcfon~ taking over. 
Judging by his demeanor on Tuesday. Keady couldn't be happier with the situation. 

-
"It's been gn•at. Matt's been a great addition," Keady said. "It's been a smooth transition. It's been enjoyable." Keady said adding Painter and Paul Lusk. who served under Painter at Southern Illinois. to his staff has ener­gized him and made him even more detnrmined to go out on a winning notn. "I feel very comfortable with our three guys," Keady said of Painter. Lusk and Cuonzo Martin. "They're involved in the coaching. I don't like 'yes' men. I want players who will critique and coach and teach and have enthusiasm about it. and I think we've got that." But make no mistake. Keady is not a ceremonial figurehead 
seasons. But 
Keady is looking 
for something better than last year's 17-14 season that included a 7-9 record in Big Ten play. 
There is reason for optimism. as Purdue lost nine games by five points or less, including four by one point. 
"We had five injuries." Keady said. plainly. "We don't think that should be a problem this. year." 
One thing Keady has tried to do is keep the focus off him ~ and the unique situation with Painter-and on his team and his players. 
"I told them to play for them­selves, play for each other and play for Purdue," Keady said. "Don't play for me. That's baloney." 
!lis messages rarely fail to hit home with his players. but this one clearly has been lost. 
"To me, I'm glad I gqt the opportunity to play for coach in his last season," junior college transfer Gary Ware said. 
SENIORS: Return your yearbook proofs this week 9..5, LaFortune Dooley Room 
en~Uf{l fh{l pO~{l you Want i~ in th{Z 2005 PJom~ 

-
WORLD FAMOUS DUELIIIG PIAIIO SHOW EVERY IIGHI 
BUY ONE SANDWICH OR WRAP & GET SECOND ONE AT 1/l PRICE WITH CURRENT STUDENT ID! 
100 N. CENTER ST. (In the "100 CENTER" Behind Hacienda & Funny Bone) (5741 259 ·7522 www.rumrunnersusa.com OPEN: Wed. Sun Nights 
MLB 

Ex-Yankees accept probation 
Probation concerns bullpen brawl that occurred in 2003 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Two former New York Yankees who got into a brawl with a Fenway Park groundskeeper during the 2003 American League Championship series agreed Tuesday to serve six months of probation and perform 50 hours of community service. 
Pitcher .Jeff Nelson and out­fielder Karim Garcia accepted the deal just before the case was scheduled to go to trial. · The deal also calls for the players to be evaluated for possi'bie anger management counseling. 
If they meet the require­ments and stay out of trouble, the assault and battery charges will be dismissed. 

"While sufficient evidence exists to prove the case beyond a reasonable doubt. the conduct Of Nelson and Garcia does not merit crimi­nal convictions," the district attorney's office said in a statement. ALCS last October. 
Charges were dropped last The groundskeeper sued the 
week  against  players  for  
Paul 25. N.H.,  Williams, of Derry, a part-time  "The conduct of Nelson and Garcia  more $33,000. He said  than the  
groundskeeper  does not merit  fig h t  Ieft  h i m  
who got into the fight with the players.  criminal convictions."  with a nose; teeth.  crooked broken a neck  
The fight broke  injury and cleat  
out after Williams cheered for the Red Sox  district attorney's office  marks on his body. But prosecu­ 
while  in  the  tor  David  
Yankee bullpen  Fredette  told  

during the third game of the the judge that a videotape of 
the fight revealed that Williams' most serious injuries were inflicted by other players who jumped into the fracas. and not by Nelson and Garcia. 
"It'd be nice of you guys to write that," Nelson told a reporter as he walked out or the courtroom. 
Nelson, 37, now plays for the Texas Rangers. Garcia, 28, was released this August from the Baltimore Orioles. 
Nelson and Garcia would have faced up to 2 l/2 years in prison if convicted. 

Oak Room, above the South Dining Hall. Doors open at 7 p.m. Show starts at 7:30. FREE admission. FREE refreshments afterward. 
·n1c Irish Inquisition is underwritten by Student Activities Office, Mendoza College of Business, College of Arts and Letters. Center for Social Concerns. Building Services, Notre Dam<> Magazine, Higgins L1bor Research Center, Medieval Institute, First Year Studies, Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning, Department of Film, Television and 1heatre. the Graduate School. and the Graduate Student Union. 

Wednesday, October 27, 2004 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles lose fourth consecutive loss 
By JUSTIN STETZ 
Sports Writer 
The Olivet College Comets coolnd ofl' Saint Mary's yesterday by defeating them in four games. For the Belles. this marked their fourth consecutive conference loss in a row. Saint M!try's fin­ished the year 5-11 in the MIM and currently resides in seventh plan; in the league. 
The Comets came out strong in the first game and downed the Belles by a score of 30-27. Saint Mary's was able to regroup in the second game and easily won 30-23. But after losing to Saint Mary's in 
Stephanie Bauer added 12 to finish the contest. 
The comets ended the game with 18 more kills than Saint Mary's and had almost 40 more digs than the Belles. 
Even with the skid at the end of the year, the Belles still know that they some games left to play before the tournament begins. 
Saint Mary's is now 5-14 over­all and they have dropped six of their last seven games. 
With the MIAA tournament beginning in less than a week the Belles will be looking to fin­ish their season on a strong note. "We all had obstacles to over­come this season, the coaching staff included," 

three straight said Turley. "But
"We all had 

games earlier since our season is in the season. obstacles to coming to an end, Olivet did not overcome this it's time to put it let up and beat all behind us and
season, the coaching 

the Belles in the give these last next two games staffincluded." games our all." .. by scores of 30-The Belles will 24 and 30-22. take the court
Michelle Turley 
The victory again today at 7
outside attacker 

was only .the Comet's third conference win of the year and places them at 8­22 overall. 
The offense struggled to put points on the board all match long. 
Despite this difficulty, Michelle Turley once again dominated for the Belles as she posted 16 kills. But this wasn't enough to beat Olivet. 
A number of Belles also played well on defensive. Anne Cusack led the team with 18 digs fol­lowed by Shelly Bender's 16 digs. Amanda David recorded another 13 herself and 
p.m. as they travel to Manchester College. 
Last year, Saint Mary's upend­ed the Spartans in four games to capture the win. 
In the game, strong play by Elise Rupright and Cusack helped the Belles to victory. 
The team will need both of them again if they hope to win. Manchester is currently 10-13 on the season and should be a good test for the struggling Belles. 
Contact Justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu. 

NFL 
Bengals save pride and season 

Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Now that 

they've  won  their  first  
Monday  night  game  in  a  
dozen  years,  are  the  

Cincinnati Bengals capable of something even more unex­pected? 
Chad Johnson is convinced of it. 
Shortly after the Bengals saved face and their season with a 23-10 victory over Denver, the receiver who made it happen was asked if his last-place team is capable of another playoff run. 
"Yes," he said, without hesi­tation or elaboration. There is a precedent, though it may not apply. 
The Bengals were 1-4 -the same as last season -when they pulled themselves togeth­er for their first "Monday Night Football" appearance since 1992. Johnson led the way with seven catches for 149 yards, repeatedly beating Pro Bowl cornerback Champ Bailey. 
The Bengals are still lan­guishing at the bottom of the AFC North, but they're no longer a lost cause. 
Same as last season. 
Cincinnati crawled out of an identical start in coach Marvin Lewis' first season by winning six of its next seven games, moving up to 7-5 and a first-place tie with Baltimore. The Bengals stayed in contention until the final week, finishing two games behind the Ravens at 8-8. 
"We were 1-4 last year and we bounced back." Johnson said. "We were 1-4 this year and we bounced back." 
They did it once, why not again? 
Well, the schedule is much more daunting. The final three road games are in Baltimore, New England and Philadelphia. 
And the Bengals (2-4) have yet to prove they're anything more than a creation of prime time television. Their two vic­tories are 16-13 over Miami at home on Sunday night, and the upset over Denver at home on Monday night. In their four day games out of the natiomi.l spotlight, they've looked half-asleep. 
Maybe they're just noctur­nal. 
"We're pretty good at night," quarterback Carson Palmer said. "The atmosphere is just unbelievable. You could tell that Cincinnati wanted a Monday night game for a long time. We really fed off of them. It was crazy all night long. The intensity they brought really kind of pro­pelled us through this game, especially defensively." 
Palmer's 50-yard touch­down pass to Johnson got the Bengals ahead, but it was the defense that kept them there. One of the league's lowest­ranked units had two inter­ceptions, forced a fumble, got three sacks and kept the Broncos (5-2) in check for most of the night. 
For the first time since that Sunday night win, the defense played like something impor­tant was at stake. 
It was. 

"We had our backs to the wall, we're playing on nation­al television, it's early in the season and we're 1-4," line­backer Brian Simmons summed up. "It feels good. but keep in mind we're only 2-4. There's no reason we can't play this way every week." 
Lafayette Square 
1JO"t18~ 
~~li
0 

Can't figure out what to get Mom for Christmas? 
Be a part of the hottest property in off-campus 
housing! Come sign a lease for 05-06 at our 
Open House and receive a $100 Gift Certifi­
cate for the Bookstore. All you have to do is 
figure out what size she wear~! 

Open Hottse in Unit #I (fai-thest &on1 Eddy), Nov. 3 ft•om 4-6pm 
Come for the food, come for the fun, come and sign a lease! 
Considering theological education? 
Meet with an admissions representative from 
HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL 

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2004 
9:30AM -11:30 AM 
134 MALLOY HALL 
Learn about ?ur graduate programs, including the Master of Divinity and the Master ofTheological Studies, and about related resources within Harvard University's other graduate faculties and the nine-school Boston Theological Institute. 
ALL STUDENTS, ALL MAJORS AND ALL YEARS WELCOME . 
For more infoiTlllltion, contact the Office ofAdmissions and Financial Aid at 617. 495. 5796 or consult the Harvard Divini.ty School website at www.hds.harvard.edu 
~------------------------------------------------------------­
. 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 27, 2004 
climbing to the No. 5 spot in the to find the back of the net last headed the Irish attack, while at least one goal in 13 of 16 
most recent NSCANAdidas poll. season. senior Luke Boughen (two goals, games, including a goal or more
Soccer 
continued from page 28 
lloosier victory Sept. 15. 
Sawyer leads the Big East in both goals against average (.42) and shutouts (9) and Stewart has even chipped in on offense, notching a pair of goals. includ­ing the game-winner in 2-0 win over Boston University on Sept. 5. 
In addition to Stewart and Sawyer, defender Kevin Goldthwaite has also been stellar in the back since returning from injury in late September. 
llowever, as much as defense has been the story this year, the maturation of a young, yet potent offensive unit has been equally responsible for the Irish 

Graduating 35 of 38 goals from last year's Sweet 16 squad, to say the Irish were unsure where the tallies would come from at the beginning of the sea­son would be an understate­ment. 
"Ask m~ [who will score the goals] at the end of the season, and I'll be able to answer your question," coach Bobby Clark said during preseason action. 
Forwards Justin Detter ·04 goals) and Devon Prescod (12 goals) and midfielder Greg Martin (six goals) accounted for 32 of the team's 38 goals last season. 
Goldthwaite, Stewart and sophomore midfielder Ian Etherington were the only play­ers currently lacing up the boots 
'The scoring realty fell to two main players last year," Clark said after Notre Dame's second and final preseason game. "I think the way to cover that is to get goals from a lot of different areas and not rely on solely one or two guys. 
"Can we actually get goals from four, five or even six differ­ent areas? 
"I think that's possible this year." 
Clark's comments appear prophetic several months later as a handful of young Irish play­ers have stepped up and shoul­dered the goal-scoring burden. 
Junior forward Tony Megna (five goals) and sophomore for­ward Justin McGeeney (five goals, one assist) have spear-four assists), Etherington (three goals, five assists), sophomore midfielder Nate Norman (two goals. two assists) and freshman forwards Alex Yoshinaga (three goals, two assists) and Joe Lapira (two goals. two assists) have frequently contributed. 


Both Megna and McGeeney currently sit fifth in the Big East in goals scored with five each while Etherington's five assists rank sixth in the conference. 
The young unit leads the Big East in a pair of offensive cate­gories -shots (291) and corner kicks (101) -and ranks third in both goals (26) and assists (23). 
While inconsistency often accompanies youth, the Irish offense has been uncharacteris­tically steady this season, netting 
Bye 
continued from page 28 

its feelings at Tuesday's prac­tice. 
"That was not my focus. That will come in time. I think our football team is hurt. I do think we'll.get over it. The focus today was number one to get healthy. Start the process of getting back to where we need to be,·" Irish coach Tyrone Willingham said. 
"I think if it doesn't hurt, then why are you doing it. I know they hurt. I 
at two difficult venues and an improving Pittsburgh tea,m. 

But those are the cards the Irish are dealt with right now. 
"We've backed ourselves into a position where, you always say you don't have much mar­gin for error, but right now you have three games remaining 
SMC 
continued from page 28 
playoffs, the team still expects to play at a high level. 
"We definitely will come out with some intensity, because we're not the type of team to give up," Herdman said. 
"We'll try to upset some other people's seasons if we can, and try to get as many wins under 

-
our belt." 
Unlike their first game of the year, however, the Belles will no longer have the advantage of playing on their home field. 
"They [Hope] are tough to play at home, and they're prob­ably not happy about us beat­ing them earlier in the year," Herdman said. 
"We'll try to show them today that that's the way it should be." 
In their last four games on the road, the Belles have been unable to post a victory, and their road record for the year stands at 1-4-1. 
"We'll be looking to improve on our road record, because it's clear to see that road games have been a problem for us," Artnak said. "We have two away games left, and it would be nice if we could put two more points in the win column there." 

Even with high expectations gone unfulfilled, a second win against Hope would leave the Belles feeling confident about their season. 
"Hope is a strong team, and beating the top conference team is always a big accom­plishment; even if we don't make the NCAA, the season has still been very successful," Herdman said. 
"We've got a great record, we've played some amazing games, and we've beat some very good teams in this confer­ence. Just because we didn't pull off everything we should have doesn't mean this season wasn't a success." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy 1 @nd.edu 


in each of their last nine contests (8-0-1 during the stretch). 
Although the Irish may not light up the scoreboard night-in and night-out, in the end. they've gotten the job done, as evidenced by Notre Dame claim­ing its first regular season con­ference crown since the Irish joined the Big East in 1995 with a 2-0-1 conference road trip over fall break. 
Should the aggressive young offense continue to buttress what has been a shut-down defense, the Irish may achieve yet another "first" come NCAA tournament time -a national championship. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

and those three games really make your season," Willingham said. 
Even after the blowout loss to Purdue, Willingham and the coaching staff kept the team focused on possibly qualifying for the Bowl Championship Series by getting to nine wins. 
Now with a third loss, it's very unlikely the Irish will reach that level. 
Willingham and his staff haven't talked to the players about it much, but he knows the best the team can do is to win out and to see what hap­pens. 
That's all 
know they that's left. 
."I think ifit doesn't hurt, 
gave the best "I think an they could." then why are you doing excellent 
Now sitting it. I know they hurt. I record. When I at 5-3, Notre say excellent,
know they gave the best 
Dame's sched­that's not 9-2. ule isn't get­they could." that's gone. I ting any easi­think 8-3, er with two that's the best
Tyrone Willingham 
ranked teams we can do at
Irish head coach 
this time," Willingham said. 
"I don't think that's a terrible record, it's not what we want­ed, but I think that's something to play for." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

Reminder: .Juggler deadline Friday 
Do you have a short story, poem, painting or photograph? Submit your work to the Winter 1ssue of 
The Juggler, 

ND's student ~iterary, art and design magaz1ne. 
Please bring artwork to Mary Foster 1n 206 Riley. Supply slides for pieces larger than llx17 or 3-D work. 
Written work can be emailed via attachment to juggler@nd.edu or dropped off in the box outside the Scholastic office in the basement of South Dining Hall. No entries of more than 2,500 words, please. 
All submissions should include title, author/artist, and email. 


Wednesday, October 27, 2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 

DILBERT 
TELL ME AGAIN 
WHAT THE ISSUE 
IS. 

PEANUTS 
SCOTT ADAMS 

~------------------~e,;~-------------------,
.5 
DO .YOU WANT THE SIMPLE BUT MIS­LEADING EXPLANA­TION OR THE ONE YOU WON'T UNDER­STAND? 

f1 
EITHER ONE IS GOOD;

::> 
>­
I WASN'T PLANNING -;;; 
.D 
ON LISTENING. 

e 
cj 
.5
.. 
E
..
.., 
<( 
l5 
Ul 
" 
~ ~ 
Q 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
JUMBLE 

I I r J 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

-~1---rN_IA......,N,.....I.,.,Z-}:+-,...__, 
. I rI J I 
www.jumble.com
I TAPECK t

l I I I J 
Print ~here: ( I I I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles: GIANT CHOKE DITHER JUMPER Answer: What the tired laborer said when he drilled into the brick wall -I'M "THROUGH" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrion 

THE L-AST THING A TEENAGER WANTS TO BE. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. ' 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Astronomical 64 Knock discovery of senseless
Potato chip, to 1930
a Brit 65 Poker player's 33 So~ber song calculation

6 Willy Wonka's creator 35 "Ruthless 66 Famous rhymer People" star of Bronx with 
1 o Little ones ''thonx"
39 Tony winner

14 Year-end temp 
Swoosie 67 Aggressive sort 15 Plane measure 
40 African antelope16 City south of 
DOWN
43 Rover's warning
Moscow 1 Lee's org.
46 Former U.S.

17 A pronoun has 
mil. acronym 2 Sought a seat
one 47 Big poker 3 Taking a bath

19 Bit of cunning 
player's wager 
4 Tiller's mount20 "The Omega 49 Clinch

Man" star, 1971 5 Donation­50 Engage in soliciting grps.

21 New arrival, of sorts 6 Set into a
woolgathering? 
53 Old TV problem groove

23 Maureen Dowd piece 54 Military surprise 
7 Where the action is

25 "Get a grip!" 55 No longer in effect 
8 Farm layer27 Straw source 9 Up-to-the­57 Box lightly28 60's trip cause minute news 

58 Battle cry29 Teutonic 10 Namely surname starter 62 Narcissist's love 

11 Properly30 Chest item 63 Came down 
12 Texas border 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE city -::-T-=-"':-:-:r..,.,.-,=-r.c~ 13 Hazardous for driving, maybe 
-=+=+=+=+=+:=-! 18 J.F.K. postings 
.......r=+=+=+:=-1 22 Was sociable, 
...gElu~~~~ml••• 
in a way
II!!! 23Ailey_ 24 Bud 26 Mid first-century 
year 28 "Odyssey" morsels -:-:t-7-t-::-f'~:':+:::+:::-t:~ 32 Shatn er sci-fi drug 33 Noncombat area, for short 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILL SHORTZ 


34 Electric 43 Former 48 Date with an Connecticut M.D.
36 "Circular file" 
governor Ella 
51 Browses, today 37 Use acid 

44 Wheelchair-52 Perry of fashion 38 Start of a 
accessible 
53 Serta rival

deluge 45 Like Playboy 
56 Wishy-washy
41 One above a specialist: Abbr . 
cartoons 59 Taking after 
60 Cohort of Curly 

42 It may become 47 The haves have hoarfrost it 61 Sp. lady 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address ______________________________________ City------~ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Cary Elwes, Lauren Tewes, HillaJy Rodham Clinton, Pat Sajak 
Happy Birthday: Lots of opportunity and change will be headed your way this year. Let your creative imagination wander and put your plans into motion. If yqu can build your dream you will prosper for years to come. Your numbers 
are 6, 18, 19, 22, 27,34 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't get all charged up before you know exactly what's going on. You are likely to get the wrong information. Think before you react. * * TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Minor mishaps can be expected if you aren't particularly careful today. Trying to take care of matters dealing with government agencies, banks or institutions will be futile. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll have the competitive edge no matter what you do today. Take a very creative approach and you will get fabulous results. Love and romance will flourish today. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may have your hands full if you decide to complain or disagree with someone today. Changes at home will probably be a little upsetting. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Gathering information will be your prime interest today. You should be able to put out any fires or disturbances that challenge you. Love is evident. 5 stars VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Financial opportunities are apparent. You may be stuck taking care of someone else's property or problems. Don't make promises you aren't sure you can keep. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): There will be plenty of action going on around you, but it may not be to your benefit. Partnerships may run amuck if you aren't diplomatic in the way you handle others** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Much can be accomplished if you are intent on following through with your plans. You will have to deal with red tape issues but, if you are swift and to the point, you will succeed. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Children or dealing with matters that pertain to them may occupy your day. Consider what you can do to improve your own position. Love and romance will take you by surprise. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Expect to experience disruptions. Your personal life must be dealt with carefully to avoid an unsavory situation. Problems with contractors, wiring or fire may set you back. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You have to put yourself out there if you want to make a difference. You should be able to drum up assistance and attract new friends and lovers. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take a closer look at your financial situation. You may have to make some changes if you want to be able to afford to maintain the lifestyle you've been living. *** 
Birthday Baby: You have insight, determination and the strength to conquer anything you face. You are capable of being a leader and do not give up easily. You are thoughtful but fair. 
Cherk out Eugenia's Web sites at astmadvice.1·om and eugenialast.com. 
-
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, October 27, 2004 
page 28 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Batteast honored as Preseason National Player of the Year 
Senior also named first team All­American by 
Basketball News 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
After a season that saw her named to a first team all-Big East performer and honorable mention All-American, Irish sen­ior Jacqueline Batteast has been named the Preseason National 

Player of the Year and a first team All-American by Basketball News. 
The forward earned these honors in the publication's sea­


son preview after Batteast a season in which she averaged 16 points and 8.6 rebounds per game. 
FOOTBALL 

Irish to regroup, recover 
Bye week allows the team an opportunity to rest and prepare 
for Tennessee

-
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
After the disappointing loss to Boston College, the first instinct for a lot of players is to want to get back out as soon as possible and play again. 
But the Irish aren't in that sit­uation. Thanks to the moving of the 

Brigham Young game to Sept. 4, the Irish have a bye after· Saturday's disappointing loss and an extra week to prepare for a tough road trip to Neyland Stadium at the University of Tennessee. 
And they're looking to capi­talize on the situation. 
"When you have a bye situa­tion, you have to learn to use it to your advantage. Right now, our advantage, it gives us some extra time to get rid of the feel­ing we have and get back in the saddle," Willingham said. 
"Sometimes you can have a hangover from a defeat, so hopefully, the time that we have, the extra week, will give 
During the postseason, one which saw the Irish reach the Sweet 16, Batteast averaged a double-double -22 points and 
11.7 rebounds per game, to go along with a .48"3 field goal per­centage. 
Last season was the third in a row Batteast was named to the all-Big East team. 
Entering the 2004-05 cam­paign, Batteast is in 11th place on the Notre Dame all-time scor­ing list, with 1,315 career points. 
She has started 64 straight 

games for the Irish. and 86 of the 90 games played in her three years at Notre Dame .. 
Already this preseason, Batteast has been named a pre­season All-American and award nominee by four other publica­tions. 
She was selected to the Wooden's Women's Award Preseason All-America team, meaning ~he is one of 30 candi­dates for the Wooden Award given to the top women's basket­ball player. 
She was also named to the watch list for another top award. the State Fartn Wade Trophy. 
Lindy's named Batteast a pre­season first team All-American. Finally, Street & Smith's named her to its ''Terrific 10" list of the nation's top players. 
Batteast hails from Washington High School in South Bend. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
us an opportunity to not have 
that,  lose  it  and  focus  on  
Tennessee."  
Wide  receiver  Rhema  
McKnight agrees.  

"It's actually good for us because we've been waiting for a bye week for awhile now," he said. 
"Guys have been beat up, still working pretty hard, but get a chance to rest and be ready for Tennessee." 
The Irish were devastated after the game Saturday. Their emotions will recover over time. 
Willingham wasn't concen­trating on getting the team over 
see BYE/ page 26 


MEN'S SOCCER 

Sawyer, Stewart dominate 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
While the old adage "If they don't score, you can't lose" is certainly true, by the same token, if you cah't score, you can't win, either. 
Heading into the season, the Irish knew exactly what they would be getting from their nationally-acclaimed defense. 

-
Anchored by a pair of 2004 Hermann Trophy Watch List members-the most prestigious honor in college soccer-in defender Jack Stewart and goal­keeper Chris Sawyer, the defense has certainly not disap­pointed. It yielded one goal or less in 15 of 16 contests thus far this season-only then-No. 1 Indiana managed to sneak more than one by Sawyer in a 2-0 
see SOCCER/page 26 


SMC SOCCER 

Belles fight for life in 
playoffs against Hope 
Game expected to determine the rest of the team's season 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Editor 

Though they won't make the NCAA Tournament this year. the Belles know they can hang with the best of them. 
Saint Mary's will get to prove just how talented their team is when they face off today against Hope College, which currently sits atop the standings in the MIAA confer­ence. 
"Hope is a very strong team. and the games against them are always good because they're top competition," sen­ior captain Jen Herdman· said. "We're all excited for today's game. Hopefully, we'll have some better luck on the road and take home a win." 
The Belles looked strong in their first meeting with Hope this season, pulling out a 2-0 victory at home. The loss to Saint Mary's is the only con­ference loss for Hope all year, and both teams eagerly antic­ipate a rematch. 
"We're excited because we always enjoy playing Hope," senior Shannon Artnak said. "They're another high caliber team that plays a style of soc­cer similar to ours." 
Although the rematch against Hope was expected to be the deciding factor in whether the Belles made the 
see SMC/page 26 
GOLF
NCAA FOOTBALL 

NBA
U) SMC VOLLEYBALL 
NFL 
GOLF 
(.) 
z 
No. 17 Purdue is look-

The Bengals are look-
Five years after Payne
Allen Iverson scored
Paul Azinger and
Saint Mary's drops it's
li: :3 w 
ing to defeat North­

ing to build on their 
Stewart's tragic death,
Nick Faldo will join 
19 points to lead
fourth consecutive loss
c 
c:J 

success this season after 
western this Saturday 

his fellow golfers remi-
Philadelphia to a 97-86
ABC's golf telecast next
to Olivet College. 
c:a:: 
after dropping two con-

their Monday night vic­
nisce.

preseason win over
year.
secutive games. 
tory over the Broncos. 
Utah.
a. ~ 

page 16
page 21 

page 18
page 25 
page 20
U) page 25 










