

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Church and state: Keeping them both seperate 
0'Brien 5 teinfels 
Kerry, Bush grapple questions role of with religion, election religion in politics 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 

By MICHAEL BUSK 
New.. \X'ritl:r Many Americans would claim 
that while it is clear the United 
;\ formnr editor of the States makes a conscientious Catholic magazine attempt to distinguish church Commonweal dPseribed the from state, it is not so clear prPrarious. strange position there exists a similar distinc­of Catholic votc•rs as "political tion between religion and poli­honw!Pssness" at Saint Mary's tics. \Vpdrwsday. and advisnd the At the forefront of modern­audiPnrP to votP based on day American tradition. this issuPs that would havP a real relationship between religion PIT<'rt ov<'r thP next four and politics is increasingly ~'I' ill'S. nuanced as it involves promi­
Margan• t ()'Brien Stein fels, nent individuals and their Pditor of Commonweal respective beliefs. lwt\\'PPn IIJSH and 2002. pre­Legislative actions taken by sPntPd a IPrturP titled "Faith Democratic presidential candi­and Politiral HPsponsibility: date John Kerry regarding Voting for the Common Good" abortion and other issues have at tlw StapiPton Lounge in provoked some Catholic leaders i,pMans llall. to impose their ideologies on 
"!This] is an election year the political world. whPn a born-again M(~thodist In the winter of 2004. St. from TPxas is considered the Louis Archbishop Raymond Catholic candidatP and a Burke said he would refuse C:atholir from Massachusetts Kerry communion if he attend­is trPat!'d as an apostate," ed Mass in the archdiocese. SteinfP!s said. "If you go to Beyond St. Louis, some of Mass Pvcry Sunday, you fit Catholicism's most prominent the Hepublican profil!~ ... if leaders have voiced similar you don't make Mass every opinions. Cardinal Francis 
Margaret O'Brien Stelnfels speaks to a crowded Stapleton Lounge Wednesday. Steinfels spoke see STEINFELS/page 4 about Issues regarding citizens voting based on their religious beliefs. see POLITICS/page 6 

Kingston speaks words of peace at Saint Mary's 
Chinese-American shares tale of living, writing 
By MEGAN O'NEIL News Writer 
KePping with the College's y(~arlong theme of peace, femi­nist author and activist Maxine !long Kingston spoke about hPr pfforts to build peace through writing and read excerpts of · 
her books Wndnesday at Saint Mary's. 
Kingston, a first-genera­tion Chinese­American and creative writ­ing professor 


at Berkley, Kingstonfollowed in the footsteps of her writer­scholar father and began com­posing poetry orally as a child. Using a mix of Chinese and English. Kingston recounted to the audience memories of her mother leaning her out of the window and encouraging her to recite poems to her grand­fathers as they passed below on their way to work. Many of earliest literary 
influences. however. were not so tranquil. Kingston said. 
"The first stories that ever came to me were war stories," Kingston said. "My mom had been in the bombings in Canton just nine months before I was born in Stockton, California." 
Later, when the author was searching for a strong female role model she chose the Chinese heroine Fa Mook Lan and began writing "Woman Warrior." 
"When I wrote the Fa Mook Lan story I did it in the first person," Kingston said. "Maybe if I spoke as if I was the women warriors maybe I 
co·uld  be  as  strong  as  she  
was."  
The  story  of  a  Chinese  

woman who disguises herself as a man and becomes a cele­brated military general, "Woman Warrior" was, according to Kingston, her "youthful" view of war. She later learned the book was being taught at the United States Air Force Academy and 
see PEACE/page 4 
SENATE 


Group discusses course -·evals 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Associate News Editor 

The Student Senate voted Wednesday to endorse the Teacher Course Evaluation (TCE) proposal discussed last week, and received a report from student body president Adam Istvan regarding last week's Board of Trustees meeting. 
During the last meeting, Alumni senator and aca­demic affairs committee chair Vijay Ramanan, for­mer student body president Jeremy Lao and student delegate to the Academic Council Jeremy Staley pre­sented the idea for a new system that would make course evaluations avail­able to students without violating the administra­tion and faculty sensitivity surrounding the current TCEs. 
The proposal calls for the inclusion of an independ­ent questionnaire during the normal TCE process. These answers would be posted on a Web site along­side professor-provided information for each spe­cific course, including a 

description and syllabus. 
Some senators said they feared their endorsement would be purposeless because a letter detailing the idea was already sent to the Provost. Ramanan clarified that the office is aware the proposal is sub­ject to change, and that Senate backing is essentiaL 
"A Senate endorsement will lend this a lot of sup­
port when we take it to Academic Council and the Faculty Senate," Ramanan said. 
Istvan expressed concern that the letter was sent to the Provost on Office of the Student Body President let­terhead without Istvan himself first seeing it. He suggested that a new ver­
see SENATE/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Hit the road, Jack 
Every year over fall break. I do the same exact thing. I make the four-hour drive home. work two jobs all wePk and spend every single spare Nicole Zook minute possible with my family 
Production
and friends. It will 
Editor
be no different Saturday, when I'll kick off a week of baseball watching and assistant accounting for the third straight year. 
Only this time. when I climb into the 
.driver's seat. I might not want to go back to Centrallllinois. I might just keep on going. south and west to the warmest weather in the country. For the first timP in my college career and f'Ven my liff', I've got travel fever. 
It bf'gan earlier this year, with a badly-conceivf'd plan to drive from South Bend to Los Angeles to see a friPnd gN commissioned into the Marine Corps. It was a must-see event. so I plotted with my cousin and two then-seniors to start the summer by making the 2,000-mile journey. Flying was far too expens.ive. so that left us with one option: road trip. 
\\'p had no monf'y, no map -just motivation. We didn't know exactly how Wf' werP going to get there. or wlwrp we were going to stay along the way. \\'p just parkPd, got in the car. and set off for California. 
It. Was. Amazing. 
BPing completely broke made us the most innovative girls on the road, stop­ping at crazy family diners and the shadiest $20-a-night motels you could pver imagine. We managed to get parking for free, housing with friends and cheap tacky souvenirs. We lived ofT chilidogs, water and bananas with peanut butter. 
Being relatively mapless forced us to lind our own way. Sure, we had gener­al direction-west. But we wove our way through the country like it was our job. taking shortcuts, longcuts and certainly the road less traveled. We went miles out of our way to see things like Shamrock. Texas -the most Irish town in America -and giant dino­saurs in the California desert from a PeeWee Herman movie. We stopped to appreciate somber moments at nation­al landmarks like the St. Louis Arch and the Oklahoma City National Memorial, drying our tears with hugs and the call of the open road. 
When we finally reached our desti­nation, we jumped into the Pacific Ocean with all our clothes on. Our friend's ceremony was well worth it, but what we realized was that the trip itself was the best part. Somehow, in two weeks of living out of suitcases, eating diner food and sleeping wherev­er we found space, we had changed from uptight college students to true road warriors -bad girls with wild and reckless abandon. We found friends and a home on the road. we found each other, and as cheesy as it sounds, we found ourselves. 
My road sisters have graduated and moved on. There will be no more chaotic travel for me. But I urge you to do what I can't-take this fall break and use it to discover who you and your friends really are. 
llit the road. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer Contact Nicole Zook at zook892 8@saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, plea.•e conracr us at 631-4 541 so we can 
correcr our error. 

Thursday, October I4, 2004
The Observer+ PAGE 2 QUESTION OF THE DAY: How ARE MIDTERMS GOING? 

Elisha Acosta Darryl Barton Lisa Wohl Mike Gigante Lindsay Peterson Heidi Storer 
sophomore senior senior junior junior freshman Badin Off campus Lewis Stanford Welsh Family PW 
"I feel like I'm "Two midterms. "Two exams in "It's midterm ''Well, I dropped "More [stuff] dying." two papers, but the same week?" a class this than I can 






they are almost subject in the done. same day. It Hallelujah!" was brutal. " 

week." possibly describe." 
IN BRIEF 

Linda Malkas, professor of' medicine at Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, will give the lecture "Bevealing Cancer's Secrets," tonight at 
6:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center Concourse. Irish women's bas­ketball coach Muffet McGraw will be the event emcee. 
The films "Ex Voto" and "Endgames" will be shown tonight from 7 to 9 p.m. in the auditorium of Hesburgh Center. Filmmaker Luis Camara will make a presentaion. 
The lilm "Art of Amalia" will be shown tonight at 7 and 10 
p.m. in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
Fall break will run from Saturday through Oct. 24. 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team will face off against Boston College on Saturday at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
On Saturday. the Notre Dame women's tennis team will play in the Eck Classic at the Eck Tennis Pavillion. Matches will be held through­out the day. 
A dance event, "Passage of Oracles" with Peggy Choy will take place on Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. in the Little Theatre or Moreau Center, Saint Mary's College. The event will combine African and Asian dance, music and martial arts. For ti.ckets, contact the Saint Mary's box office, (574)284-4626. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 56 LOW 46 

Pig guts cause smelly traf­fic jam 
LITTLE ROCK, Arkansas -Emergency service work­ers had their stomachs turned when they cleaned up a smelly mess of spilled pig innards that blocked a busy Arkansas intersection for several hours Tuesday. 
Police said a truck spilled about 1,000 pounds of hog intestines fresh from a packing plant. The mess in the state capital, Little Rock, left several cleanup workers queasy. 

"It was horrible. Oh, it was bad," said Sgt. Terry Hastings of the Little Rock police department. 
TODAY 

a:: 

ways to cut down on the stench. 
Tom Frey has 1,200 dairy cows on his Lancaster County dairy farm and is one of a growing array of farmers tackling the odor issue on their own, using a variety of tactics such as covering manure pits with vegetable oil and blowing the smelly air through a "biofilter" made of wood chips. 
"We don't just do it for our neighbors," Frey said. "My wife doesn't appreciate when it stinks." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
The truck was carrying the entrails from a render­ing plant to a facility where dog food is manufactured when the driver made an abrupt stop. 
The container was cov­ered only by a tarp, which did not prevent the viscera from sloshing into the crossroads, police said. 
Farmers look to curb foul smell of manure 
CONESTOGA, Pa. -With more city-dwellers moving closer to farms, the state is looking at putting restric­tions on the smell of manure and farmers are voluntarily trying to find 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
IJ.I 
::c 
~ 
IJ.I 
3: 
...I 
<
0 






0 
...I HIGH 54 HIGH HIGH HIGH LOW 43 LOW LOW LOW 
50 
43 
51 41 
46 36 

Atlanta 70 I 48 Boston 62 I 52 Chicago 54 I 42 Denver 65 I 40 Houston 68 I 46 Los Angeles 88 I 60 Minneapolis 65 I 48 New York 60 I 56 Philadelphia 62 I 56 Phoenix 90 I 65 Seattle 68 I 54 St. Louis 56 I 41 Tampa 83 I 69 Washington 66 1 56 
Thursday, October 14, 2004 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Board promotes all diversity 
New progratn aids in-state grads 
create new ideas that will hopefully
By RACHAEL SCHERMITZLER 
make Saint Mary's College the bPst
Indiana Careers at Notre Dame hopes to prevent 'brain drain' 
News Writer 
to encouragn them to stay By JEANNINE PRIVAT with financial incentives. Nl'WiiWrirl.'r among othnr extras. The 
program will give financial 
hn· many graduating sPn­support of up to $9,000 to iors. a job plar:Pmnnt in qualil'ying graduatns. and South Bc~nd. or any part of' up to $3.000 l'or students Indiana. sounds IPss than involved in sumnwr intnrn­appc•aling-and tlw stalis­ships. tirs agr<~e. ;\rcording to a "\Nn ar<' 
college graduatns in other 
;\s one of the five major boards of 
ways. The program will aid 
the Student Government 
students in searching for a 
Association. Saint Mary's Student 
career. and will collaborate 
Divr.rsity Board (SOB) wants to pro­
with not only othPr universi­
mote thr idea that the term diversi­
ties. but also other compa­
ty includPs all types of diversity ­
nies and state and local gov­
not just racial. 
nrnm<'nt nmployPrs. 
Despitn recent miscommunica­
INC@ND 

tions and criticisms conveved to 
hopes to 

SDB members about th<' purpose~ of 
\I a r r h ~ 0 0 :{ In d ian a poI is rc•ally hopdul "Indianapolis is a incrPasr the 
their committe~!'. SDB is attc~mpting 
Star artirlt··. Indiana rankPd that WI' can at t r a c ti v~~ ne~ s s 
to promote themselves as a commit­
really great city to

14th in stat<' production of' hcdp studPnls ol' living in 
tPe listPning to stude·nt divnrsity 
rolle•ge graduatl's, but only slay hnr<' ... live in that many Indiana after 
nePdS. 
44th in pc•rrc•ntagc• ol' coi­INC@ND pro­people don't graduation. 
SD!3's mission is simple~. said SDB 
IPgP graduate•s among over­gram dirPctor WhiiP many 
president Ashley Doughty. 
consider." 

all rPsidPnts. Lori ;\nn peopiP often 
According to a posting on its \\'eh 
l.ast v<~ar. lwwc•ver. Notre Edinborough want to go 
site, the purpose of SDB is "to 
!Jam!' ,:l'rl'iv!'d a $1 million said. Lori Ann Edinborough straight to New 
increase diversity among the Saint 
I' IHI ow nw nl l'r om the L iII y To recPiVI' program director York. Chicago 
Mary's campus and allmv others to 
l~ndcmnwnt's "lnitiativP to funds, upcom­l'romot!' Opportunity ing collngn T h r o u g h hlu ration a I graduates Collaborations" to Sl't up must apply through the Indiana CarPPrs at Notre CarPnr Ce~nter and be cho­
ll a m e I I\C0' :-..;I> l. a nc'\\ pro­
g r a m 
de•signPd to aid stu­dPnls \\·ho (' iJ OOS!' to rPmain in­stall' al'tPr gradua­tion. :'liotrl' 
snn for thn pro­gram. CurrPnt "We are really l'u nds allow l'or hopeful that we approximatcdy 15 studnnts to r!'ceivc•
can help students 

monthly payments
stay here." ol' $375 ovnr two vnars. -For thosn ~tudrnts interested
Lori Ann Edinborough 

in funding for both 
program director 

paid and unpaid internships. monny 
!lamP's program is just onc• is allocatPd l'or about 30 ol' :ri' that havc• bPI'n Pstab­studI' nts. who vvi II rec<' i vc• lishPd thro\lglwul Indiana. l'unds basnd partially on 
\\'ith tlw rurr!'nl loss ol' nc•Pd, and on a first-come, rolle•ge• graduall's. common­lirst-serve basis. !\' known as Lhl' "brain BPsidns financial assis­drain." administrators hopn tancn. INC:@ND aims to help 


Have aHappy 

21 stl 
Love, Your Badin Girls 
Notre Dame Opera 



AUDITIONS 
Audition dates: October 29, 2004 
3:00 prn to 5:30 prn 
SIGN UP IN CROWLEY HALL RM. 105 

OR CONTACT JOHN RILEY-SCHOFIELD 631-5175 
Auditions will be held in the Annenberg Auditorium, basement of the Snite Museum of Art. 

Please bring one prepared aria or song (from memory) and music for the pianist. An accompanist will be provided. Opera performance dates arc April 8-9, 2005 
ALL ARE INVITED! ! 
it can possibly be for all students." Doughty said. · 

or Los Angeles, 
recognize diversity around thrm 
Edinborough 
and br.come aware of it and gain an 
stresses the 
intemst in what is around them." 
positivP qualities of cities in 
Doughty said the board's ambition 
Indiana. 
is to follow the mission statement. 
"Indianapolis is a really 
"We also want to develop stu­
great city to live in that 
dent's awareness of the different 
many peoplP don't consid­
types of diversity and encourage 
er," shn said. 
their involvement as we move for­
As the 12th largpst city in 
ward to implement changes and 
the United States, 
Indianapolis should be a r--­
In addition to social activities, 
they also hold forums that address 
current world to give students a 
chance to speak their minds and 
form educated and informPd opin­
ions in a comfortable environmrnt. 
Doughty hopes all students will 
se~P SUB a<; murh morf' than just a 
campus oflirr· frwusing on onr· type· 
of di\'f~rsitv. 
SUB's g~Jals fiJr this yr:ar inr-lude· 
incrc·asing fac:ult~ and studr·nt 
involvr~mf'nt. trJ \\fJrk dilige·ntl~ in 
the· arr:a of disabilit~ polif'ir•<; and trJ 
find \\a\s trJ makr: Saint \!an's 
morr: ar:cr:ssibiP and rJ!Tr:r mr;rr. 
chance:s for studr:nl'> to sharr: thr·ir 
divr:rse r:xpr:rir•nf'f:S. 
Dought~ thinks thr: futurr· rJf SIJB 

is looking bright. · "For thr· rest rJf thP war. I'm hop­Ing to brr·akdrJ\\ n ·str·reot~ pes of 
SDB as strictly a board that focusf's 
on cultural diversitY to make Saint 
\lan·'s students feel \\elcome and 

accepted for \\hO thry are." ShP ·said. 
Contact Rachael Schermitzler at rscherO 1 @saintmarys.edu



-------· 
leading candidate for 
1 BUY 1 ENTREE, I
attracting college graduates, Edinborough said. 
I I
The Lilly Endowmrnt was GET THE 2ND organized by mPmbers of 
I I

ENTREE FOR 1/2 PRICE! 
the Lilly family, whirh owns 
thP Indianapolis-based 
I I
Join us at any of ourThree Great Restaurants any Monday thru Lilly and Company. I Sunday until October 17. Order one entree at the regular pnce I and get another entree of equal or less value for half pncel 
pharmaceutical business Eli 
Contact Jeannine Privat at I I
Valid Mon. Thru Sun. • Dinner Hours Only
jprivat@nd.edu 
One Half Price Entree Per Coupon 
I I 
Not valid w/ any other offer. Expires October 17, 2004
I 
I 
~'P"~·'$ 
a ... taurant

Want to write nt:tws • I I 
120 N. Main St Mishawaka, IN 121 S.Niles 2041 Cassopolis 255-7737 South Bond, IN Elkhor1,1n<iono NO


I.. _____________ ..I
~-1500

234·9000 
rn• 
INSTITUTE for 



Latino Studies 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Cine de Ia Raza Film Series: 

EXVOTO and ENDGAME 
A Presentation and several short films 
by filmmaker Luis Camara Thursday, October 14, 2004 7:00-9:00 PM ·-Hesburgh Center Auditorium University of Notre Dame 
@).@) 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, October 14, 2004 
undertake peace ·writing. The books. Kingston said,


Peace SMC hosts conference 
contained instructions on 

continued from page 1 how to combat violence and war and she spent 
Communication, language and gender main themes 
Steinfels 
continued from page 1 
Sunday. you don't fit the 
HPpublican profile." 
Steinfels, however. chal­
lenged this conception of an 
unbreakable link between 
Catholicism and the 
Hepubliean Party, warning 
r.specially against voters who 
have made abortion the lit­
Ill us test of their vote. 
"Th1~r1~ are many life and death issu1~s." she said. 
Steinfels went on to men­
tion the Vatican's statement 
that Catholics have the right 
to vote for pro-choice candi­
dates if they believe other 
issuns outweigh abortion in 
that election. 
"We have to analyze the 
issues. pay attention to the 
facts. and consider the rami­
fications of Catholic social 
teaching as we think about 
the candidates and the elec­
tion." she said. 
After discussing the two 
parties' courting of Catholic 
voters, Stninfels concluded 
that neitlwr had policies that 
perfectly reflect the Church. 
"None of these templates fit 
Catholicism as much as 
Hnpublicans or Democrats 
lih to think they do," she 
said. 
Stl'infels tlwn gave her rea­
sons for the way she planned 
to vote in the Nov. 2 election. 
"What has started out as a 
war on terror has become a 
vvar with the world." she said. 
"The Bush administration has 
badly bungled the fight with 
LPrrorism ... There is no sign 
that anything has been 
learned from the mistakes 
that have been made in Iraq 
... What will the world con­
eIu de if Pn~ s i d e n t Bus h is 
elPcted for a second time?" 
Steinfels also cited the 
growing national debt as a 
problem undnr Bush, but said 
she was no more convinced 
about Democratic nominee 
SPn. John Kerry. 
"About Mr. Kerry. I have como to thn following conclu­sion: hn will be no worse than Mr. Bush," she said. "I don't claim he will be better." 
Anticipating questions about the importance of abor­tion and stem-cell research to arise in the campaign, Stl~infels said both issues get morn than their due of pub­licity. 
"I am opposed to both abor­tion and embryonic stem-cell research," she said. "Are these reasons to give Mr. Bush a second term? l think not ... Neither candidate will have much if any impact on either issue." 
She also responded to the pro-life hope that a Hcpublican might be able to illegalize abortion through Supreme Court appointments. 
"No Supreme Court, in my opinion. is going to overturn Hoe vs. Wade," she said. "The law will only change, if it ever changes, when this culture changes and women change their minds them­solves about abortion." 

Steinfels concluded her speech with a call for Catholics to stay true to t 111~ i r p r i n ei p l e s . "I think Catholics need to build up a new gen1~ration of citizens. public servants and politicians who will look to tlw common good rather than only to partisan advantage," she said. 
Contact Michael Busk at mbusk@nd.edu 

asked an academy profes­many years searching for sor why. them. "lie said that there arc "Every time I went to 
By RACHAEL SCHERMITZLER so many women now in China and every time I 
News Writer the armed service and met anyone who was they need an ethos and a going to Asia I asked 
Starting today. Saint Mary's mythos," Kingston said. "I them to look for these 
College will host The Organizat1on thought to myself well, I books of peace," Kingston 
for the Study of Communication. better get to writing a said. 
Language and Gender (OSCLG) lor book of peace." No one knew anything 
its 27th annual conference. Kingston said her desire about the books. however. 
Saint Mary's assistant professor to write peace continued With her research and 
of communication studies and to grow inquiries 
2004 OSCLG conference director through the resulting in 
Linda Berdayes said the confer­years of the nothing, 
ence would explore three main

"If we were all
Vietnam Kingston set 
themes.

together maybe we
War, a war about to 
"The three ideas focus on the her two could gather the write her own 
shifting gender identities within brothers chapter in 
families and between cultures.

war energy and 
were drafted peace litera­
women and political resistance

figure out how to
to serve in. ture. In 
and meeting 'the other' through Despite her build peace. " October 
creative· practices -dance, music willingness 1 9 9 1 
and poetry as embodied communi­to contribute Kingston was 
cation." 

her talents Maxine Hong Kingston 
156 pages 

Saint Mary's own Center for to peace author into her 
Women's Intercultural Leadership 


propaganda, Kingston said inner conflict left her unable to do so at the time. 
"I had problems even writing them [my broth­ers] letters." Kingston said. "On the one hand I wan ted to express my concerns for peace, and yet I didn't want them to let down their guard and get hurt." 
During the war, Kingston said she wrote very few letters and one short story that were rejected for 
Fourth Book 
of Peace when a wild fire destroyed her Oakland. Calif. neighborhood and all of her work. 
The effect, Kingston said, was traumatizing but also inspired change in her life. While once a solitary writer, Kingston began a writing workshop for war veterans. 
"I gathered veterans of all wars to come write with me." she said. "If we were all together maybe we could gather the war energy 

publication. and figure out
"Maybe we can use
Her writing how to build hit a wall the promises of art peace. when she to prevent a war." The commu­could no nal writing longer write atmosphereabout work-Maxine Hong Kingston renewed 
ing for author Kingston's 
peace. 

But 20 years later, and with the help of her brother, she was able to rewrite the story successf'u lly. 
It was Kingston's belief in the existence of three ancient Books of Peace written in China that eventually inspired her to 
belief in peace writing and inspired her to write 
her most recent work. The Fifth Book of Peace. 
"~aybe we can use the promises of art to prevent a war," Kingston said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
prnsPnt rww rnsParch. sharP qw~s­tions and in gnneral bn with otlwr scholars intPrPstnd in similar issuns." Berdaves sai(L 
Tlw thrnn-dav ronfernncP will 
providP opportui1itins to PngagP in 
roundtable discussions. i\c:tivitins 
indude panels and workshops. 
Saturday night's ewnt, whirll is opnn to tlw public, is callPd 'Passagn of Or·ades' wit.ll music by liunnd composer Fred llo. 
"Oracles combines dancP, mar­tial arL'i and jazz in an unforgd­table tribute to those who rnadP the arduous journey to America and whose labors built th1~ land­scape," Berdayes said. 
The performance melds African and Asian myth and danee with stories from the U.S. history chore­ographed by Peggy Myo-Young Choy from Madison, Wi'i. 
"We need to experience and approach it in both practical and intellectual levels," Farina said. 
The tally of participants from Saint Mary's community is 107 people, mainly faculty and a few students. 
As a kickoll' to the confen~nce, Maxine I long Kingston will receive an award from the organization for the Study of Communication. Language and Gender today. Each year the conference acknowledges a teacher, scholar or someone whose work has dovetailed eom­munications. language and gen­der. 
The conference will run through Sunday. 
Contact Rachael Schermitzler at rscherO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Choose any two favorites on one mouth-watering plate. 
Served with .fresh veggies und loaded mushed potatoes. 
Live A Little At: Mishawaka 4810 Grape Rd. 271-1330 
(CWIL) along with the communica­tion studies. dance and theatre departments offered to sponsor the conference. 
Sister Marianne Farina said they decided to sponsor the event because the department felt they had a great similarity of ~~ducating women leaders. Farina said it is not only about women's leader­ship, but women's understanding of the intercultural paradigm. 
Berdayes said there are various purposes for holding the confer­ence. 
"The purpose of the conference is for scholars from around the country who arc interested in the study of communication, language and gender come together to 


LUNKER'S 
HOME OF THE 6000 GALLON LUNKQUARIUM AND ANGLER's INN RESTAURANT. HUGE SELECTION QF 


NORTH FACE 
JACKETS, COATS, HATS, CLOTHING BRING THIS AD INTO LUNKER's AND RECEIVE 10/o OFF NoRTH FACE ITEMS. LuNKER's APPROX. 15 MINUTES FROM CAMPUS. TAKE ST. RD. 23 N TO EDWARDSBURG, MICHIGAN 
269-663-3745 
WWW.LUNKERS.COM 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, October 14, 2004 CoMPiLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Armenia registers Jehovah's Witness 
YEREVAN, Armenia -Authorities in Armenia registered the Jehovah's Witnesses on Wednesday, allowing the religious group to operate in the Caucasus Mountain nation after years of debate and denial. 
The Jehovah's Witnesses first appeared in Armenia in 1988, after a devastating earth­quake in what was then still a Soviet repub­
lic. But the group was unable to win regis­tration after the nation became independent in the 1991 Soviet collapse. 
Legalizing the Jehovah's Witnesses was one of the main conditions set out by the Council of Europe when the continent's lead­ing human rights organization granted Armenia membership two years ago. 
Deputy Justice Minister Tigran Mukuchian told The Associated Press a major obstacle to registration had been members' refusal to serve in the military, which in the past led to arrests and prison sentences. A law institut­ing alternative service has removed that obstacle. he said. 
Use of force backed to free hostages 
TANK, Pakistan -Talks aimed at freeing two Chinese engineers taken hostage by al­Qaida-linked militants in a lawless region near tfie Afghanistan border have broken down and tribal elders said Wednesday they would support the military using force to free the pair. 
I Iowever, the military has given no sugges­tion that the use of force was imminent, and government leaders have said they are still committed to trying to peacefully free the two hostages, who were kidnapped Saturday while in the area to build a dam. 
Tribal elders met with militant leader Abdullah Mehsud early Wednesday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Army ammo plant explodes 
MILAN, Tenn. -A thunderous explosion tore through a storage building at an Army ammunition plant Wednesday, causing at least one serious injury and creating a blast that could be heard for miles. ·Two people were reported missing. 
Mayor George Killebrew said one person was airlifted to a hospital, while authori­ties searched for two others caught in the explosion at the Milan Army Ammunition plant. The cause was not immediately determined, but FBI agent George Bolds had been told by authorities that the blast appeared to be an accident. 
"As far as we know, they were moving some barrels of some sort of volatile mate­rial and one of the barrels flashed," Bolds said. 


Lava rises in Mount St. Helens 
SEATTLE -The molten rock rising inside Mount St. Helens is giving the peak an eerie red glow at night. 
Lava has been climbing to the surface at nearly 1,300 degrees for the past few days in a process that scientists said Wednesday could go on for days, weeks or months. At night, low-hanging clouds and the steam rising from the volcano reflect the glow of the red-hot stone inside the crater. 
Scientists said they do not know how long the eruption might continue. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Panel backs tougher classes 
INDIANAPOLIS -A state panel endorsed a proposal to require students to take a tougher academic track in high school if they want state financial aid-or even admission-to Indiana's public universities. 
The governor's Education Roundtable unani­mously approved the plan on Tuesday that by 2011 would make college aid arid admissions contingent on students earning a Core 40 diplo­ma. 
"We've got to get them prepared so they will succeed. We've got to raise the expectations for all kids," said Steve Ferguson, a Roundtable member who is an Indiana University trustee. 
IRAQ 



Six American soldiers die in car bombing 
Allawi warns Fallujah to give up Zarqawi, security problems plague country 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -A suicide attack and roadside bombs killed six American soldiers Wednesday, and Iraq's prime minister warned resi­dents of the insurgent bas­tion of Fallujah to hand over terror mastermind Abu Musab al-Zarqawi or face 11ttack. 
Al-Zarqawi's Tawhid and Jihad group has claimed responsibility for beheading several foreign hostages and for car bombings through­out the country. A videotape posted Wednesday on an Islamic Web site showed militants linked to al­Zarqawi beheading two Iraqis the terror group accused as spies. 
"If they do not turn in al­Zarqawi and his group, we will carry out operations in Fallujah," Prime Minister Ayad Allawi told a meeting of the 100-member interim National Council. "Fallujah of course is an honest city, but it has been manipulated by a deviant bunch that wants to harm Iraq." 

The attacks on U.S. forces, at a time when the Americans are applying pressure on insurgent strongholds in the Sunni heartland, occurred in the run-up to the Islamic holy month of Ramadan, which Iraqi television said would begin here Friday. donors' conference that "it killing two American sol­east of Baghdad, to clear the 
Some extremists believe took longer than necessary diers and wounding five, the area of insurgents. they earn a special place in to get our act together" military said. Four other sol­"Basically, it's a pre­paradise if they die in a before turning over sover­diers were killed in roadside Ramadan operation just to jihad, or holy war, during eignty to Iraqis on June 28. bombings in the Baghdad clear up some of the area Ramadan. The month-long Armitage said reconstruc­area -three late Tuesday around Baqouba," said holiday of fasting celebrates tion delays had created a and one early Wednesday, Capt. Marsh.all Jackson, the time when Muslims "void," particularly in the the command said. spokesman for the 3rd believe God revealed their electricity and water sectors Last year, the advent of Brigade, 1st Infantry holy book -the Quran -to in Iraq. But, he added: "It's Ramadan was marked by a Division. the Prophet Muhammad .. not a Gomplete void. We surge in insurgent attacks. There were no reports of 
Iraq's deteriorating secu­have other money going in." To prevent a repeat, U.S. major clashes, but several rity has slowed reconstruc­Armitage stressed that the troops have stepped up people were detained. In an tion efforts and forced the United States-Iraq's lead­offensive operations in unrelated attack, a. police United States to divert funds ing donor nation, with a Sunni Muslim strongholds to captain was killed from rebuilding to security. pledge of $18.4 billion -is the north and west of Wednesday in a drive-by 
In Tokyo, U.S. Assistant "picking up the pace." Baghdad. shooting near Baqouba,.offi­Secretary of State Richard Wednesday's suicide More than 1,000 U.S. and cials said. Insurgents regu­Armitage acknowledged attack came when a driver Iraqi troops launched two larly target Iraq's security that the United States was plowed into a U.S. convoy simultaneous raids forces, who are seen as col­initially too slow in channel­and blew up his car in the Wednesday around laborators with the United ing money to Iraq, telling a northern city of Mosul, Baqouba, 35 miles north-States and its allies. 

ENGLAND 


Blair refuses to apologize for war 
"I take full responsibility and was his belief that Saddam had
Associated Press 
apologize for any information given stockpiles of chemical and biological 

LONDON -Prime Minister Tony in good faith that has subsequently weapons. The government high­Blair weathered yet another storm turned out to be wrong," said Blair, lighted the danger in a September over the Iraq conflict on Wednesday, who has alrea(jy acknowledged that 2002 dossier as it tried to persuade vigorously denying he misled Britain British intelligence was flawed. a skeptical public of the need for over Iraqi weapons and refusing to "What I do not in any way accept war. apologize for the war. is that there was any deception of .-No evidence has been found in 
Eighteen months after the U.S.-led anyone. I will not apologize for Iraq to back up the government's invasion, Iraq continues to dog the removing Saddam Hussein. I will claims, however, and Blair has prime minister, but political oppo­not apologize for the conflict. I faced repeated accusations that he nents seem unable to land a lethal believe it was right then, is right exaggerated the Iraqi threat. blow. now and essential for the wider Four inquiries have cleared the 
In a noisy House of Commons ses­security of that region and world." government of deliberately mislead­sion dominated by the war, Blair Blair has come under intense ing the public. But that has failed to parried attacks over his handling of pressure for months over his case satisfy political opponents, who say intelligence and won cheers of sup­for war in Iraq. His principal reason Blair should have told Britons that port from his own lawmakers. for joining the U.S.-led offensive the intelligence was patchy at best. 
Thursday, October 14, 2004
page 6 The Observer+ NEWS 
that do is disadvantageous for a not carried forward by our defended his perceived self-dis­reason to call him a 11ip-flopper." 
church that has dwindling atten­power alone." Bush said. "We sonance. However. some Americans.
Politics 
continued from page l 
a probable successor to the pope -stated all priests should deny communion to politicians who display blatant support for abor­tion. 
The release of a statement by the Unitnd States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) indi­cates religious intervention is becoming mon~ and more preva­lent in contmnporary politics. 
i\ccording to the memoran­dum. "those who formulate law. have an obligatioil in conscience to work toward correcting morally defective laws. lest they lm guilty of cooperating in evil and in sinning against the com­mon good." Furthermore, "bish­ops can legitimately make difl'er­ent judgments" regarding the decision to deny communion on the grounds of politics. 
Senior political science major Ben Ilaney said a1though it may be the prerogative of the Church to have similar rights as a pri­vate organization. acting upon these rights may prove to be an unwise decision. 
"Not every Catholic agrees 100 percent with the Church and to only give communion to those dance and membership," llaney said. 
Some argue. however. that the presence of religious themes in politics can prove advantageous tH society. 
Heverend Robert Dowd. an assistant political science profes­sor at Notre Dame, said although religion has been used to justify "terrible acts" in this country and elsewhere, it can also be employed as a mecha­nism of goodwill. 
"Religious convictions have inspired people to great public actions -such as the civil rights movement -that have promot­ed the common good," Dowd said. "We would all be poorer without such religiously-inspired public or political acts." 
One of the biggf~st criticisms launched on President Bush by his opponents has been the attack on his conspicuous faith in Christian doctrine. 
Bush. who is a devout Methodist, often integrates Biblical allusions and references to God in his speeches. In his 2004 State of the Union Address. the president fused both political and religious concepts. 
"The momentum of freedom in our world is unmistakable. It is 
can trust in that greater power 
who guides the unfolding of the 
years. i\nd in all that is to come. 
we can know that His purposes 
are just and true." 
The president's strong reli­
gious background is not only 
evident in his words. but in his 
actions as well. Since his inau­
guration in 2000. Bush has 
launched a series of faith-based 
initiatives, which are policies 
that increase the accessibility of 
federal grants to religious 
organizations. 
"It's important to strengthen 
our communities by unleashing. . the compassion of America's religious institutions," Bush said 
in the State of the Union. 
Conversely, the president's 
biggest opponent has made an 
unmistakable effort to downplay 
his own religious background. 
Kerry, the Catholic senator 
from Massachusetts. has justi­
fied his beliefs by citing 
i\merica's "absolute" separation 
of church and state and elabo­
rating on the necessary dualistic 
nature of a politician's identity. 
Echoing the words of John F. 
Kennedy -"I will be a presi­
dent who happens to bE( 
Catholic. not a Catholic presi­
dent." -Kerry has perpetually 



GSU discusses insurance, diversity 
By PAUL SPADAFORA News Writer 
Issues of social diversity. dL<>eus­sions of Gay and Lesbian support and nnw devnlopments with gradu­al!' student lwalth insurance were the centerpieces of discussion at the second Graduate Student Union (GSU} meeting of' the academic year. 
i\llianc1~ND I'Pprcsentative Mae Hussell thanked the GSU for the support it lent to the organizations' Pl!'orts to promote National Coming Out Day on Monday and added his appreciation for their sponsorship of the Coming Out Closet Dmnonstration plannPd for that day. The demonstration was par­tially sponsored by the sociology df'partnwnt and tlw GSU, to help gain formal support. but was not permittPd by the University. 
"The Graduate Student Union stPppml in. and they said they'll take it upon tlwmselves." Hussell said. "They said it was something that nem!nd to b1~ done." 
Council pn~sident John Young talked about the importance of the GSU's involvement in promoting sorial diwrsity. 
"The GSU rPcognizes diversity as mon~ than just social or moral bsues." Young said. "We do things outside of' this. [Gay and Lesbian diversity! L'i just one component of it." 
Social chair Brandy Ellison express1~d a similar vh~w. 
"I think supporting diversity is part of the GSU's mission." Elision said. "It is important that we have a healthy and happy student pody." 
The GSU motioned to allocate $250 to the i\llianceND's "Gay? Fine by Me" shirt campaign for the coming year. 
Ilealth insurance L<>sues wer'e the second focus of discussion in the council. The sponsored health insurance company docs not cur­rently cover graduate student dub sport<>. Many students are unable to participate in club sports that travel or compete with teams from other universities. The GSU dis­cussed potential remedies for the problem. A possible supplemental insurance for club sports players was proposed. 
Other health earn business dis­cussed was the upcoming Forum on Ih~alth Care, sclwduled for Oct. 
26. 
Erica Pirnic, the health care committee chair. feels the forum will help keep graduate students knowledgeable about healthcarc. 
Young recommended that all department representatives inform co-workers and colleagues about the Forum. 
"This is your chance to have [Ant1 Kleva and Charlotte Bostic.] the two people in the university who know more about health insurance than anyone else, cor­nered." 
In other GSU business: 
+ The parking surveys approved at the previous meet­
•r>oc.'Pierce'= 
Restaurant 
THE PLACE FOR STEAKS for 28 years 
120 N Main St Downtown Mishawaka 
255-7737 
T J Laughlin class of '73 General Manager 
ing have been finalized and made available for all graduate students. The GSU asked all department representatives to encourage graduate students to take the survey. 
+ The issue of funding for the library access to journal packages was discussed. Concerns about lim­ited funding to renew contracted journal packages from academic journal publishers were raised, and the council was asked to consider courses of action if the jow·nal con­tract'> arc not rPnewed for the nnxt academic year. 
Contact Paul Spadafora at pspadafo@nd.edu 
"There is separation of church and state in America. and I fully intend to continue to practice my religion as separately from what I do with respect to my public life. and that's the way it ought to be in America," Kerry said in an i\pril 2004 interview with the Boston Globe. 
For some voters however, r'eli­gion is irrelevant. 
"I really don't think about reli­gion when choosing a candidate. I focus on the issues. I admire Bush's strong belief's but I don't think any less of Kerry because his weaker religious back­ground." said Haney, who plans on voting for Bush. 
i\lthough some political ana­lysts have suggested Kerry close the "religion gap," some sup­porters would disagree. 
Saint Mary's freshman politi­cal science major Maria Balata. a supporter of Kerry. said she does not feel Kerry should inte­grate more religion into his campaign. . 
"I think it's a dirty tactic. and it should not be used by either candidate." Balata said. "If he were to attempt to incorporate a more religious aspect to his campaign now. that would only give the Republicans one more 



Senate 
continued from page I 
sion, assuming Senate endorsement. be on Student Senate letterhead instead. 
The .Senatt;J endorsed the proposal unanimously. 
Istvan also gave the Senate a summary or how the Board of Trustees report went. 
"The Board was n~ally receptive to t1111 idea of off­campus safety as a priority. There was a lot or concern about the ND Saf'PBus. but they approved the other three." Istvan said. 
Istvan said tlw O!Tice of HPsidence Life and !lousing said they would institutP 
www.turtlecreeknd.com in lo«£Hurtlecreeknd.com 574-272-8124 
accept this use of religion. 

llaney said he is not troubled by the possibility that some reli­gious contPnt is added to garner votes -he expects each caiH!i­date will do what it takes to win. 
"Candidates shouldn't excludn religious content from thnir rhetoric altognther bncausl' those belief's are what make up each of them and that's what we're trying to figure out. just who each of the candidat1~s n~al­ly are." llaney said. 
Balata, however, feels th1~ president is using religion in a distasteful nutmwr. stating hn is "certainly trying to use religion to his advantage." 
According to Dowel. however. from a Catholic pcrspectivn. it doesn't matter where orw falls on the political spectrum or whom his or lwr intnndPd vote is for beeausn neither candidatP has got it right. 
"Catholics must make the lwst possible decision givnn tlw cir-. cumstancns," Dowd said. "If our Catholic Faith should do any­thing. it should inspire us to volP beyond self-intfm~st." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry@nd.edu 

the ofT-campus seminar program . and that Not r ,. Damn Security/Police was 
d e v c Io p i n g a Io n g -t ~~ r m comprehensive plan for off­campus safety. 
"All in all. it was very suc­cessful." Istvan said. "Thl' JSafnBusJ is anything but dead." 
In other Senate news: 

+ Chief executive assistant Davl' Baron is creating an OfficP of Communications to both lwlp him p1~rform his dutiPs as director of com­munications and to makP surI' Pvery one interest,. d has the ability to gPt involvPd in studPnl govPrn­nwnt. Baron said. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 



TURTLE CREEK APARTMENTS 
I
Stop ln this week BEFORE FALL BREAK! 
You can pick up the applications you wi11 need and take them home over FALL BREAK! 
Turn them in when classes resume and have your housing set up for 2005-2006! 
We also have floor plans available for the 2005 spring s~mester. 


~~~--~~-----~·------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Thursday, October 14, 2004 
page 7 
Oil prices send stocks sharply lo-wer 
Investors rush to take profits on fears that market is in a commodities bubble 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Soaring oil prices trumped positive earnings news Wednesday, sending stocks skidding as investors rushed to. take profits on new fears that the market is in the midst of a commodities bubble. 
Stronger than expected profits at chip bellwether Intel Corp. and an upbeat outlook from McDonald's Corp. cheered Wall Street early in the session. But rising crude prices squashed those gains as oil traders nervously handi­capped weekly .inventory numbers due Thursday. 
Anticipation of Thursday's report on weekly jobless claims also spooked buyers-particu­larly following disappoint­ing employment data for September released last Friday. That, combined with surging energy costs and worries about deceler­ating earnings, contributed to an apprehensive climate on Wall Street. 

"There is so much uncertainty in the market right now, and it is playing itself out as fear: The fear of being overcommitted to stocks," said Ken Tower, chief market strategist for Schwab's CyberTrader. "We've also seen a lot of recent sentiment data that suggests there is a real lower, a day after trading $32.19, and Exxon Mobil that we've gone too far, too short-term . consensus above $54 per barrel, rais­Corp. closed down 89 fast in the commodity opinion that the market is ing hopes for a better eco­cents at $48.48. Other stocks ... and that spills headed lower. So there's nomic picture by year's energy stocks also suf­over into the big industri­tremendous uncertainty, end. But as oil traders fered: Chevron Texaco als," said Larry Wachtel, and uncertainty and anxi­became less bullish about Corp. shed $1.16 to $53.31 market analyst with ety are the enemies of a­U.S. inventories and wor­and Occidental Petroleum Wachovia Securities. "All bull market." ries grew about Hurricane Corp. lost 3.6 percent, or the commodity stocks are 
The Dow Jones industri­Ivan's lingering impact on $2.04, to $54.91. getting whacked ... steel, al average slumped 74.85, production in the Gulf of Analysts blamed the copper, aluminum, oil, or 0. 7 4 percent, to Mexico, prices began to declines on growing fears chemicals, paper products, 10,002.33. soar. Light, sweet crude about a possible bubble in you name it. And that's 
Broader stock indicators for November delivery commodities prices, and being reflected in the mar­were also lower. The surged $1.13 to settle at worries that they were due ket." Standard & Poor's 500 $53.64 per barrel on the for a correction soon in the The rise in oil prices def­index declined 8.19, or New York Mercantile face of slowing global initely overshadowed the 
0.73 percent, to 1,113.65. Exchange. demand, particularly in session's earnings news. The Nasdaq composite Even as oil rallied, how­China, and cooling eco­Even though third-quarter index shed 4.64, or 0.24 ever, commodity-depend­nomic growth at home. results have been fairly percent, to 1.920.53, ent stocks foundered, With oil prices up 60 per­positive so far, analysts are propped up somewhat by pressuring blue chips. On cent so far this year, the dubious about whether strength in the semicon­the Dow, Alcoa Inc., the thinking went, how much that will be enough to lift ductor industry. world's largest aluminum further can they go? stocks in the face of lofty 
Crude oil futures opened producer, lost $1.00 to "There is a sense here energy prices. 


Wal-Mart finds union at its back door 
utives at the Arkansas headquarters mering frustration over the store's
Associated Press 

of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. pay, scheduling and other practices. 
JONQUIERE, Quebec -The signs While still not a certainty, the 165 "Wal-Mart wants to be rich, but it topping sales racks wear the same retirees, single moms, students and won't share." yellow smiley face, but promise other hourly workers at this store 2 Wal-Mart responds that it does "Chute de Prix," instead of price 1/2 hours north of Quebec City could share its cost savings with con­rollbacks. The boxes of Tide lining soon become the first anywhere to sumers through lower prices and the shelves in housewares come extract what the world's ·largest pri­that it treats its workers fairly. The packed with a bonus CD, just for· vate employer insists its 1.5 million company has redefined retailing by Canadian stores, inviting shoppers "associates" around the world nei­squeezing its suppliers and keeping· to experience "Ia passion du ther want nor need -a union con­a tight lid on other costs, including Hockey." tract. A government agency has cer­labor, allowing it to undercut com­
But except for a few tweaks, the tified the workers as a union and peting stores. That translated last low-slung gray and blue Wal-Mart told the two sides to negotiate. fiscal year into profits of more than store off highway 70 could be almost "One person against Wal-Mart $9 billion on sales of $256.3 billion. any one of the retail Goliath's nearly cannot change anything," said The public jockeying over 5,000 discount emporiums in the Gaetan Plourde, a fiery 49-year-old Jonquiere is also also geared to cap­United States and eight other coun­sales clerk in the store's home elec­ture the attention of workers in the tries. And that's what worries exec-tronics department, explaining sim-United States. 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 10,002.33 -74.85
}

ones.•vp:,,. 
Same: Down; Composite Volume: 1,081 163 • 1,320,088,960 

AMEX 1, 273.40 -3.56 NASDAQ 1,920~53 -4.64 NYSE 6,556.53 -53.18 S&PSOO 1,113.65 -8.19 NIKK£/(Tokyo) 11, 19 5. 99 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4, 6 34.80 -13.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC) +3.50 +0.71 20.99 SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) -0.27 -0.01 3.74 CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO) -1.57 -0.30 18.86 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 0.00 0.00 28.03 YAHOO INC (YHOO) +0.73 +0.73 34.96 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.18 -0.09 48.71 10-YEAR NOTE -0.59 -0.24 40.78 5-YEARNOTE -1.04 -0.35 33.19 3-MONTH BILL + 2.06 +0.34 16.87 
Commodities. 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.96 53.14 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.00 414.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.10 94.30 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 109.7700 EURO 0.8102 POUND 0.5577 CANADIAN$ 1.2564 

IN BRIEF 
Quality Dining in pact to go private 
MISHAWAKA, Ind. -Quality Dining Inc. said Wednesday a group of five shareholders led by chief executive Daniel Fitzpatrick have offered to take the company private in a $37 million transaction that values the restaurant company at $3.20 a share. 
The offer price represents a 9.2 percent pre­mium to the company's closing price of $2.93 Tuesday on the Nasdaq Stock Market. 
Stock of Mishawaka-based Quality Dining closed at $3.03, up 10 cents, or 3.4 percent, on the Nasdaq. 
The company said the agreement is subject to the approval of a definitive merger agreement by a special committee established by the board. The agreement would include conditions of obtaining the necessary financing, and the approval of Quality Dining's franchisors and shareholders. 
Quality Dining, which operates 124 Burger King and 39 Chili's Grill & Bar restaurants, said the offered share price represents an increase of 16.4 percent from the original proposal made by Fitzpatrick's group on June 15. 

SEC investigating newspaper inflation 
NEW YORK -The Securities and Exchange Commission is investigating circulation reporting in the newspaper industry following several disclosures of fraudulent practices in recent months. 
. Catherine Mathis, a spokeswoman for The New York Times, said Wednesday the SEC is taking an "industrywide look" at circulation practices, but she declined to be more specific about the inquiry. She said the Times stood by its own circulation reporting, and add~d: "We welcome the SEC's action because we believe it will help put to rest any lingering doubts created by the improper actions of a few." 
The SECdeclined to comment on whether any such investigation was under way. 
Inflated circulation claims by several news­papers have undermined the confidence of advertisers in the integrity of the figures, which are used to set advertising rates. Tribune Co., Belo Corp. and Hollinger International Inc. have all said they plan to make restitution to advertisers for the mis­statements. 
• 
Thursday, October 14, 2004 

page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
ISRAEL 




Country closes holy site to Muslim. worshippers 
Killing ofschoolchildren continues to escalate 
A.-sociated Press 
.JEBUSALEM -Israel said Wednesday it would severely limit the access of Muslim wor­shippers to ./<1rusalem 's holiest site during thn holy month of Hamad.an. claiming it could collapse. Three Palestinian militants were killed in Israeli airstrikes in the Caza Strip. 
Angry Muslim clnrics dis­missed lsranl's claims, saying Arab <~ngineers assured them tlw AI Aqsa Mosqtw compound was stable. They accusnd Israel ol' exagg<~rating the dan­ger lll hopes or increasing its control ov<~r the site. which is administered by the Islamic Trust. 
Israeli policn and archaeolo­gists warned that because of a recent earthquake, part of the compound. Islam's third holiest shrine. might collapse under largo crowds of bPiicvors dur­ing Bamadan. which begins this weekend. 
The sacred hilltop, rnvered by Jews as the site of thl'ir bib­lical tnmplns. is one of the most snnsitivc spots in the lsraeli­l'alnstinian conf'lict, and riots there in 2000 escalated into the More than ·1 00 Palestinians have been killed during the recent Gaza offensive, about half of them civilians. 

Earlier Wednesdayy Israeli troops captured the llamas 
·chief in the West Bank city of !Iebron after surrounding his hideout. The fugitive, Eymad ()awasmeh, was ordered to strip to ensure he was not armed. and was led away blindfolded and in his under­wear. Bulldozers destroyed the hideout. 
Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz branded Qawasmeh a "mass murderer" who he said was responsible for a number of suicjdc bombings. Qawasmeh is suspected of sending two bombers who killed 16 Israelis in twin bus attacks Aug. 31 in the southern city of Beersheba. 
In the Gaza Strip, an Israeli platoon commander was sus­pended on suspicion he emp­tied an ammunition clip into a 13-ycar-old Palestinian girl from close range after she had already collapsed under· army nrc. 
The of'ficer was not charged in the Oct. 5 inci­dent near the 
current round of Hafah refugee
"Schools should be 

righting. Israeli camp, but came
havens ofpeace. " 

attempts to under investiga­restrict the num­tion after fellow ber of worship­Peter Hansen soldiers said he pers could lead to 
U.N. Relief and Works engaged in an 
more I'alesti r1 ian illegal practice
Agency chief
protnsts. 
Israel's police 
minister. Gideon 
Ezra, said he wants the Islamic 
Trust. or Waqf, to dnclarn the 
soutlwastnrn corrwr of tlw holy 
sitn compound off-limits. 
If tho Waqf does not agree, 
"we will view this as a real and 
immediat<~ threat and we can't 
lt~t this happen ... we will have 
to limit the number of worship­
pers to 50.000 or 60,000," 
lizra told Israel Army Hadio. 
The compound holds about 
250,000 people and is often 
filled to capacity during the 
main Haruadan prayers. 
The chief Muslim cleric. or rnurti. of Jerusalem. said he would not go along with the Israeli request. Egyptian and .Jordanian r,ngineers who inspected the ·walls after the earthquake said that "there is no real danger.-" the mufti, lkrerna Sabri, told The Associated Press. 
Late Wednesday, Israeli ah·­cral't targeted a group of mili­tants n<~ar Bcit Lahiya. a town in the northPrn part of the (;aza Strip, witnesses said. killing oru~ llamas nwmbcr and wounding another. 
Anotlwr Ilamas militant was killed in a missile strike early Thursday in the Jebaliya r<d'ugee camp. and a second died lat<~r in a hospital. 
ThP Israeli military said in both cases soldiers spotted mil­itants planting explosives and tar-g<~tml them. 
As the violence llared. about 20 tanks rnov<~d into the Hafah rPfugee camp on the Egyptian hord(~l' and destroyed four abandoned structures, Palestinians said. Two people were wounded by an Israeli missile. 
The military said it was a "routirw" operation to remove cover for Palestinian gunnwn. 

known as "verify­
ing a kill." 
In another inci­
dent in Hafah on Wednesday, a 
1(,-year-old Palestinia-n boy 
was killed and his 7-year-old 
cousin shot in the stomach by 
army fire, hospital officials 
said. The witnesses said the 
fire came from army vehicles 
south· of the refugee camp. 
The Israeli military said the 
boys were in a no-go zone. 
In the Palestinian refugee camp of Khan Younis, a 5th­grade girl died Wednesday after being shot in the chest the day before while sitting at her desk in a U.N.-run school. The army said soldiers returned mortar lire from the area of the school. The U.N. Helief and Works Agency, which runs the school, said the camp was quiet at the time and denied mortars were fired from its grounds. 
Peter Hansen, the UNHWA chief, said that the incident marked the second time in sev­eral weeks that an elementary school girl was killed while in school. 
"That two young children have been shot and killed, sit­ting at their desks in UNHWA schools in the last month is horrific by anyone·~ standards. Schools should be havens of peace," he said in a statement. 
In four years of fighting, 3,248 people have been killed on the Palestinian side, includ­Ing hundreds of minors. On the Israeli side, 999 people were killed. including 98 minors. Many of the Palestinian young­sters were killed while throw­ing stones at soldiers. Others were hit while in their homes, walking to school or observing clashes. 
The Israelis charge that mili­tants operate from populated areas, endangering civilians. 
KAZAKHSTAN 

Inexperienced cre-w lllans craft 
Russians and American flight on Soyuz first without veteran pilot aboard 
The lirst Soyuz llights were
Associated Press 
in the late 1960s, and since 
BAIKONUH -Smiling and the mid-1970s, Soviet and confident. two Hussians and Hussian space crews always an American prepared for have included a cosmonaut their lirst mission in a Hussian with previous Soyuz spacecraft -breaking pilot experience computer failure. 
"We hope that the docking will be conducted in automatic mode, but the crew is ready to switch to manual controls if the need aris­es," Shari'pov 

the nearly 30-year tradition of aboard a Soyuz to "Our training said. having at least one crewman ensure a smooth N i k o I a i
methods are
with previous experience in ride. The tradi­Moiseyev, a
reliable and give
piloting the capsule. tion now has deputy director 
Hussians Salizhan Sharipov been broken us full confidence. " ol' Bussia's and Yuri Shargin and because several Federal Space American Leroy Chiao were veteran cosmo-Agency, scoffed
Nikolai Moiseyev
set to roar into space at 7:06 nauts have at a question
Russian Federal Space
a.m. Moscow time Thursday resigned in about the crnw's atop a Soyuz booster rocket recent years and Agency director lack of Soyuz 
and dock with the internation­the space agency al space station two days later. hasn't had Chiao and Sharipov both have enough seats on recent Soyuz flown U.S. space shuttles, missions to trail) their replace-. while Shargin is a rookie. ments, said Yuri Grigoryev, a 
"I have flown shuttles three spokesman for Hussia's times ... and I would very Cosmonaut Training Center. much like to lly a Soyuz, which "It's not a problem. We sim­would be a new adventure for ply need to adapt to new con­me," Chiao told reporters ditions," he said. Wednesday. "Both ships are Russian space oflicials have very good, very reliable." played down the lack of Soyuz 
Chiao, who got experience, and married just tho crew said
"We have logged 
over a year ago, Wednesday that said he had a many hours in a thorough train­mascot from his ing had compen­
simulator and got
shuttle missions sated for it.
prepared for all
to take on the "We have Soyuz, but added regular and logged many that the most hours in a simu­
emergency
important per­lator and .got
regimes."
sonal item dur­prepared for all ing the mission regular and would be his Salizhan Sharipov emergency wedding ring. regimes,"
Russian astronaut 
Responding to Sharipov said. a question in an Soyuz space­official Russian questionnaire craft are guided by autopilot about what he would secretly on their approach to the sta­bring to the station. Chiao jok­tion and during the docking, ingly said that he would take a but the crew is trained to good scotch o~ brandy. operate it manually in case of 

experience. 
"Yuri (;agarln's l'light was also his first," he snapped. referring to the Russian who in 1961 becanw the first man to fly in space. "Our training methods are reliable and give us full conn­dence." 
The grounding of the U.S. shuttle 11eet following the Feb. 
1. 2003, Columbia disaster has left Hussian spacecraft as the sole link to the 16-nation sta­tion. One of three seats on the latest Soyuz missions was assigned to a U.S. astronaut 
In order to earn some extra cash, the underfunded Hussian space agency has also sold several seats to European astronauts or space tourists. 
Initial plans for Thursday's mission had envisaged includ­ing a space tourist, Hussian millionaire businessman Sergei Polonsky, who said he was ready to pay some $20 million for a 10-day ride. Polonsky was eventually jetti­soned from the mission art<~r officials said lw was too tall !'or tlw tiny Soyuz capsule. 


THE AREA'S BEST KEPT SECRET SVNDAYTICKET AND ESPN GAMEPLAN ON FOlJR 10' THEATRE SCREENS WITH SPEAKERS AT EVERY TABLE AND 14 OTHER T.V.'S WATCH l'P TO 8GAMES AT THE SAME TIME 
MONDAY-$1.00 16oz. DOM. DRAFTS TUESDA\'-$1.50 WELL DRINKS WEONESDA\'-Sl.50 COSMO'S AND SJ.OO MARGARITA'S THtTRSDAY-$1.50 DOM. BOTTLES & .35 WINGS (MIN. 10)  
52885 US 3IN: South Bend IN 46637 574-272-5478 CALL FOR CA..RRYOUT  



NIGHTLY SPECL;\LS 
SUNI>A\'-OOMESTJC BUCKETS 6BOITLES FOR $12.00 

Located Just North Of Cleveland Road On US 31. Next To Comfmi Suites 







ELECTION 2004 
Thursday, October 14, 2004 CoMPILED FROM T1IE 0E>SERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 9 
"Six months after he said Osama bin Laden must be caught dead or alive, this president was asked, 'Where is Osama bin /,aden?' He said: 'I don't know. I don't really think about him very much. I'm not that concerned.' We need a president who stays deadly focused on the real war on terror." 
John Kerry 

"Gosh, Ijust don't think I ever said I'm not worried about Osama bin Laden. It's kind ofone ofthose exaggerations. Ofcourse we're worried about Osama bin Laden. We're on the hunt after Osama bin Laden. We're using every asset at our disposal to get Osama bin Laden. " 

George Bush 
"In our first debate (Kerry) proposed America pass a global test. In order to defend ourselves, we'd have to get international approval. I'll work with allies. I'll work with.friends. We'll continue to build strong coalitions. But I will never turn over national security decisions to leaders ofother countries." 

George Bush 
"!have never suggested a test where we turn over our security to any nation. In fact, I've said the opposite: I will never turn the security ofthe United States over to any nation. No nation will ever have a veto over us . ... I think most Americans in their guts know, that we ought to pass a sort oftruth standard." 
John Kerry 


Candidates debate issues on domestic policy 
Nineteen days to go: Bush defends his presidency, Kerry makes case for change in final debate 

Left, Democratic candidate John Kerry emphasizes a point during Wednesday's debate. Center, Laura Bush and Teresa Heinz-Kerry embrace after the debate. Right, President Bush gestures while speaking. 
alike. swayed. "I think Kerry spoke ness of America," he said. a mainstream in American poli­Associated Press "I've become more and more better. But I still support Bush." Bush countered: "I want to tics,' he told Kerry "and you're disturbed about Bush," said Fabrizio and others gave Bush remind people listening tonight sitting on the far left bank." 
TEMPE, Ariz. -President John Barker, 73, of Tampa, Fla., credit for firmly defending him­that a plan is not a litany of As if to answer Bush's out-of­Bush's policies are under who voted for Bush in 2000, self in the third and final presi­complaints" and he called the mainstream argument, assault, his re-election threat­sweated over this year's election dential debate. A Democratic Kerry's health care plan "an Kerry couched his answers to ened, so he sought Wednesday for months and finally decided consultant, Dane Strother, called empty promise." the next two questions -on night to make the campaign a Wednesday night to back Kerry. the faceoff a draw -with Bush The president repeatedly tried abortion and gay rights -in referendum on his rival. "I just don't think with every­forcing Kerry into awkward ter­to convinced voters that Kerry gauzy, conservative language. 
lie cast Democratic Sen. John thing we're facing, we can have ritory on social issues. exaggerates, dissembles and "We're all Ged's children," he Kerry as out of the mainstream, another four years. I'm talking Allan Ramsey, 67, an uncom­can't be trusted to kE'E'p his said to begin a lengthy answer a liberal whose rhetoric doesn't about the economy. I'm talking mitted voter from Hedgesville, promises or protect the peoples' on gay rights. \tindful that one­match his record. Vote against about Iraq. Bush just didn't give W. Va., said he was more likely money. New programs? "Guess fourth of voters are Catholic. Kerry, the vulnerable incumbent me a good reason for the way after the debate to vote for who ends up paying the tax K!:'rry embracpd his religion but seemed to say, even if you're not things are," the former police­Kerry, though he was unim­gap? The middle class." notPd that hP opposes the too crazy about me. man said. "He gave me plenty of pressed with thE' show. KE'rrv hammerE'd Bush for the \'atiran on abortion. "I bPlieve 
"If you don't want to focus on reasons to vote against Kerry. "''m just glad this was the last loss of more than 800.000 jobs that I can't legislate or transfer your own record, you focus on But why should I vote for him one," Ramsey said. ''I'm tired of during his presidency and the to another American citizen my the other guy's," said Tony again?" the same old squabbling." rising deficit. "Being lectured by article of faith," he said. Does Fabrizio, a Republican consult­In a CNN-USA Today-Gallup Indeed, there was plenty of President Bush about fiscal that mean he's personally ant in Washington. "He really poll of 511 debate watchers, that. responsibility is like Tony opposed to abortion? Kerry did­doesn't have much of a choice, Kerry was seen as the winner by The debate opened with both Soprano talking about law and n't make it clear. does he?" 52 percent to 39 percent. An men assuring voters that the order," Kerry said. "I think I'm leaning toward 
Bush's challenge was to stop ABC News poll had Bush and post-Sept. 11 world could be Bush answered Kerry's dig Kerry now because he says he's Kerry's momentum, which Kerry tied among a sample of safe again -if he wins Nov. 2. with a cold stare -then a small a Catholic and doesn't believe in began with a poor first debate debate watchers that tended to that is. smile as he reached for his glass all of the church's beliefs, like that erased Bush's lead in the be more Republican. Kerry tried turned a question and took a sip of water. But he me," said Marcia Vinick, an polls. There was no reason to Bryan French, 21, a biomed­about flu vaccinations into a managed to withhold the scowls uncommitted voter from Scotia, believe that the final debate ical science major at Marquette long indictment on Bush's health and fidgeting that marred the N.Y., and a Catholic. changed the campaign dynam­University, agreed that Kerry care policies. "This president first debate. She favored Bush before the ics, said analysts and voters won the debate but he wasn't has turned his back on the well-Bush punched back. "There's series of three debates began. 
CRITICAL REVIEW 
LOS ANGELES -George Bush avoided scowling and John Kerry managed to crack a few more smiles. 
But if the candidates had learned to improve their performance by the third presi­dential debate Wednesday, viewers got another lesson: This final showdown was mostly a recycled version of what they'd heard before. 
With moderator Bob Schieffer posing questions that rarely broke new ground or were overly broad -his opener: Would America's children ever live in a safe, secure world?-Bush and Kerry were free to resort to familiar answers and edited stump speeches. 
CNN's Jeff Greenfield deemed it "the least satisfying of the debates, the least focused. the most drenched in wonkery on both sides." 
Not to mention sound bites, as both President Bush and Sen. Kerry veered between a barrage of facts, often quickly disputed by the other, and attempts at col­orful quotes. 
NADER WATCH 
HARRISBURG, Pa. -A state court knocked Ralph Nader off Pennsylvania's presi­dential ballot on Wednesday, citing thousands of fraudulent signatures including "Mickey Mouse" and "Fred Flintstone." 
The ruling was one of two new setbacks for Nader. Also Wednesday, a federal judge denied the consumer advocate's bid for aspot on Hawaii's ballot. 
In Pennsylvania, describing Nader's petitions as "rife with forgeries,"Commonwealth Court President Judge James Gardner Colins said that fewer than 19,000 of the more than 51,000 signatures Nader's supporters submit­ted were valid. Nader needed at least 25,697 to be listed on the ballot as an inde­pendent candidate. 
"I am compelled to emphasize that this signature-gathering process was the most deceitful and fraudulent exercise ever perpetrated upon this court," Colins said in a 15-page ruling that followed a two-week review in multiple courtrooms acro~s the state. 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, October 14, 2004 
THE OBSERVE-R 
The price of loyalty 
P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Not~ Dame, IN 46~56 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 

MANAGING EDil'OR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Mcghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
A.o;sT. MANAGING EDITOR  
joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger Vll~POINT EmTOR: Sarah Vabulas SI'ORTS EDITOR: He-.uher Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR• Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AI> DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTF.M.~ AnMINI.\TIV.TOR: Mary Allen CONTROU.ER: !'aula Garcia 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
-{574) 631-4542 
MANAGING. EDITOR 
(574) 631-4'>41 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinc.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS 0ESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.cdu 
SCENE DesK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
o8s£RVERONLIN£ 
www. ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the s!Udents of the Universiry of Norre Dame du Lac and Sainr Marys College. Editorial concent, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeirher institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse 
advertisements based on conrent. 
The news is reported as accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majoril)' of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views of rhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and musr include contact information. 
(~,hom r~v;arr.ling ObJm~fr polidn should be dirmed to &iuor in ChiifMatt Loza~ 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

rnc-Olnt'rW"r (USrs ~99 2·~000) iJ publishcJ Mond"y rhtouzh J:riday e~Cepr during rum •ntl YK"Iion periodt A tubscripnvn w The-Obtetvct i1 S100 for (IDC' ~ildnnic yc-4r, JS~ lOr OM ~J~:r»alit'r l'tw llh~rwor 11 .a 11\fmlKr of du: Ailoc1att'd Prot, AJJ ~pruducrion ri&htt .m 
lt"ll'Ved, 
The Ohwtvt't " publuhcd ar· 1~0. Bux Q Oli :lnuch CJmina H.dJ 024 Souda Dining HaU Norrc l>.an•r. IN 46556-0n'J Notre l>amc. IN 465:U..On9 
l't-uoJIC.alfiCUI&e rUJ "' Nocrc llamcr ..nd aJdmm\al m~lin' oiftcn. 
I'O~~I'MAS'rlUt 
Xnd ..Jdrt't' 'IH~rklnt ro ThcOllu:rver 
Thr Obtn\'et i• • mnnbn uf ~~ AsiiOciatoJ Pku. All tcproJua.:uon ri&}tra Ut: """'cd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

The most important fact to notice about the political books which reach The New York Times bestseller list is that while they come from both ends of the political spectrum-never the cen­ter -they all have 
Peter Wicks
something in com­
mon. In every case it 

is possible to discern Englishman 
not just the book's Abroad 
subject matter but 

also the author's conclusions without 
opening the covers. Jack Huberman's 
"The Bush Hater's Handbook" must 
surely represent the limit-case. but 
Coulter's Treason: Liberal Treachery 
from the Cold War to the War on 
Terrorism isn't exactly cryptic. Dante, 
you will recall. put traitors in the ninth 
circle of Hell, closest to Lucifer. 
These books are designed to be judged by their covers, allowing us to pick our politics a Ia carte. We don't read to discover whether Bush is the anti-Christ-we know that he is-we just need to be reminded of the evi­dence. preferably in a large typeface and with plenty of bullet points. Or con­versely, since we already know that everything that is wrong with America, and possibly everything that has ever gone wrong anywhere; is the result of the malevolent influence of liberals, it would be nice to be equipped with a knock-down argument for use with col­leagues who stubbornly refuse to acknowledge Sen. Ted Kennedy's responsibility for the 1989 San Francisco earthquake. 
Many of these books are rich in facts and statistics. Not all of them are false, but they are all pre-screened. You are more likely to catch malaria in Boston than encounter a statistic which might cast the slightest doubt on the author's views. We all know that it is possible. even easy. to mislead with statistics and facts ripped from their context, but chose to temporarily forget this when we read Coulter or Moore. To the facts and statistics of our opponents we respond with the refined skepticism of the ideologue, who sees only what he 
believes. 
Partisanship is not the same thing as extremism. nor is it taking one's own side in an argument. The defining fea­ture of the partisan is that he subordi­nates, consciously or unconsciously, his judgment to the views of his party or faction. That is why George Orwell said that a writer cannot be a loyal member of any party. His support for a 
party cannot supersede his 
In Monday's New York obligation to be honest with Times, one of our own pro­his reader or he will have fessors wrote an editorial betrayed his craft. 
in which he argued that if Paul Krugman, a pro­Catholics honestly exam­fessor of economics at ined the issues, they Princeton. has written might return to their over 400 columns for 
Democratic roots in the The New York Times. 
forthcoming election. I Not once has he writ-
am not Catholic and ten a column in sup-
shall offer no an opin­port of a Republican 
ion about whether a politician or policy. You 
good argument could can find Jess partisan 
be made to support Democrats in Congress. that claim. but the 
In a representative argument in the article democracy such as the did not even come close. United States-and, now. Leaving aside a variety of such as Afghanistan -citi­other objections, the argu­zens vote for whichever can-ment depended crucially on didate or party they think is 
a misunderstanding of the the best of those on offer. Since Church's teachings so elemen­tify time and effort already sacrificed. 
But, as Orwell saw, the price of this unqualified loyalty is high. Krugman's columns, collected under the uninten­tionally felicitous title. "The Great Unravelling," are best read as a cau­tionary fable in which, week by week an extraordinarily talented economist­tipped by many as a future Nobel Laureate-slowly gives up his wit, his style. and his economic expertise for 
his cause. 
each party must seek to appeal to a 
variety of very different groups, often with differing interests and views, we should not expect to find a party that we can support unreservedly, just one that we think will be better than the 
others. 
For many this vision of democracy is not enough to justify their emotional investment in the process. The appeal of partisanship is that by identifying a party's cause with all that is good and just most easily achieved by thinking as little as possible about that party and focusing entirely on the sins of the other(s)-it makes it easier to see poli­tics as a fight worth entering, or to jus­
tary that it is hard to read it as any­thing other than a deliberate attempt to deceive the reader. Coming from an accomplished scholar, arguments that bad illustrate the true cost and final demand of partisanship: the mortifica­tion of the intellect. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in the philosophy department. He is not eligible to vote in the forthcoming elec­tion and prefers not to endorse either candidate. He can be contacted at pwicks@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
'I a111 a Catholic, political flip-flapper' 
As a recent Notre Dame graduate, I have realized just how much I value my education. During a time of increased political awareness, I reviewed the Sept. 28, Oct. 5, and Nov. 
2. 2000 issues of The Observer, where I confidently penned bold views in sup­port of our current president, George 
W. Bush. I supported his plans for improving education; valuing middle­class families; increasing campaign fis­cal responsibility; and, overall, creat­ing a better America. As a College Republican, I naively asked, "How could a man who claims credit for inventing the Internet be a better option than Bush?" Now, we have a presidential incumbent who stated in Friday's debate that there are multiple Internets, and has not followed through with the promises I so foolish­ly believed as a responsible, first-time voter. 
President Bush's administration stole­the title of "No Child Left Behind" from the Children's Defense Fund's efforts, and provided no plausible way of fund­ing the program intended to improve education. Additionally. he still does not aid the poorest of the poor, who will if at all attend dilapidated schools with out-dated texts. 
While he promised incentives for married families, he never mentioned supporting a constitutional amendment to discriminate against certain citizens by depriving benefits of a marriage. He increased the gap between the rich and the poor. and provided tax incen­tives to industries that outsourced jobs overseas. Consequently, middle class families suffered. 
Bush supported campaign finance reform, yet used the U.S. government to increase both his and Dick Cheney's personal wealth through the war in Iraq. Today, he stands idly by while the Sinclair Broadcasting Group sched­ules to air an anti-Kerry documentary prior to the election. 
He claims to support "homeland security," but cut most federal spend­ing on sexual assault and domestic vio­lence crisis support, which directly protects families from violence within their own homes. 
Today. I am proud to say that I am a Catholic, political flip-flopper. acknowledge my mistake, and will rec­tify it in my vote. I hope that you will do the same. 
Lindsey Horvath alumnae class of 2004 Ocr. 13 

News Sports Angela Saoud Matt Puglisi OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Nicole Zook Mike Gilloon Kelly Meehan Maggie Oldham 
What are you doing for Fall Break? 
Viewpoint Scene 
"The most wasted ofall days is one without

Sarah Vabulas Kenny Storin 
laughter."

Graphics Illustrator Vote today by 5 p.m. at Paul Roncal Katie Knorr 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
e.e. cummings

Mike Harkins poet 
··r11 E ()HSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Thursday, Octohcr 14, 2004 page I I 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Pro-choice beliefs active 
on both catnpuses 
l·:arh ynar. tlw Notn~ Damn and Saint Mary's Hight to Lif'n club stral!~gically plan·s signs and crossns around thnir l'f~Spt•cliVP CalllpUSPS as part of' thnir illlnual dc·rnonstrations. ;\l'tc~r four yc~ars in lovdy Notn· l>anw. I havn found that not only an~ we not accc~pting of' altc~rna­tivc• lil"nstylf~s. we also n~rrain from n•sperting opinions that go against thn NotrP l>anu~ social norm. II" pc~ople were allowed tlw opportunity to have their voicns !ward. pc~rhaps they would be less likf'!y to seek oth!)r forms of' !)Xpression. 
While) discussing the destruction of' the) eTosses, Hight to Life co-presidP-nt Lauren (;algano. told The Observer that she l'!)lt. "pc·rsonally attacked." Miss Galgano. how do you think thosn crosses make a man or woman who has bC!)n personally all'Pc:ted by abortion feel? By displaying tlw crosses on the green, arc you subtly attacking your own classmatBs? The last tinw I che~cked. abortion was still a legal activity in the UnitPd States, and under tlw law not equated with murder. ;\las, the pro-life and pro-choice) dPbate will 
not be solved in the editorial column of' 
The~ Obs1~rve~r. but one~-sided demonstra­
tions must end on the Notre Dame and 
Saint Mary's campus!~s. 

In March. a group ofstudr~nts and mnmbers of the South Br~nd community joinr~d with over a million people in Washington. D.C. to March For Women's Lives. ThP march proved that the pro­choice move~m!)nt is alive, and that thPn~ are plenty of men and womr~n fighting for rr.productive rights. The pro-choice movement may seem to be non-existent on these campuses, but that is hardly the case. Instead of fostering hate, the recent destruction of crosses should cause mem­bers of the collegiate community to foster a logical, open dialogue between both groups. free of shock tactics. 
MacKenzie Ulm 
senwr 
LeMans Hall Oct. 13 
Abortion is a hum.an right 
I writP this in response to Notre Dame Right to Life's offensive display euphemized as tlw Cemetery of the Innocents. This and other events of Respect Life Week are demeaning not only to pro-choice individuals on campus. but also to women across the nation. 
As a pro-choice Catholic. my integrity and character have been repeatedly attacked. In response. I state that Catholic doctrine should never have a veto over national policy and a clear separation of church and state takes precPdence over the subjective morality of a particular n~ligion. 
In a line of decisions. going back as far as Union Pacific R. Co. v. Botsford (1891). the Supn•me Court has recognized that a right of personal privacy exists under the Constitution. The Court has found this right echoed in the First. Fourth. Fifth. \inth and Fourteenth Amendment<; and also in the penumbras of the Bill of Rights. 
Simply put. a woman has the right to control hPr own body. The "rights" of a fetus should not take precedence over her interests in reproductive health and personal liberty. To that end. my roommate and I actively protested the Cemetery of the Innocents on Thursday and Friday and we are proud to have done so. We will continue to stand up to tlw misogyny, sexism and bigotry of the anti-choice right and also to the anti-intellectual undercurrent that is sadly now so pervasive within the Catholic Church. 
I rlose with a quotf' from novelist Ayn Rand: 
"I cannot project the degree of hatrpd required to make thosP wompn run around in crusades against abortion. llatred is what they certainly project. not low for the embryos. whirh is a piece of nonsense no one could experience. but hatrPd. a virulent hatrPd for an unnamPd object ... Tlwir hatn•d is directed against human bl'ings as such. against the mind. against reason. against ambition. against success. against low. against any valLH' that brings happiness to human life. In compliance with the dishorwsty that dominates today's intdb:tuallield. they call themselves 'pro-life .... 
Ple<L<;I' support women's right<;: Keep abortion safe and lPgal. 
AndrewYi 
sophoitlllrc 
St. Edward's H.dl Oct. L1 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
~e\Je WATcHeD THe 'DeBATe~, lf(E'AD Tlie 'PAPel2S, SIUDiet> T\1€ l~ue~ 



Use m.ore effective methods to persuade 
In his Oct. 11 letter to the editor. Charlie Ebersol claims that the vandalism of the white crosses on South Quad is just another act of free expression. While the vandals were indeed expressing themsPlves, some forms of expression are sim­ply unacceptable. If I am angry with my little brother. I can either tell him why I havn a problem with him and try to work it out. or I can punch him in tho face. Both are ways of expressing myself. but one is mature and appropriate while the other is n1~vcr acceptable. If you are offended by the white crosses. write a letter to the editor or stand near the display with a sign expressing your opin· ion. Vandalism is not only immature and inappropriate; it is criminal. Therefore it should be condemned by all. regardless of personal beliefs regarding abor­tion. 
That said, I agree with Ebersol that the white crosses are ineffective and tact· less. Ebersol's example is more extreme than necessary for making his point. but it illustrates what is wrong with the Cemetery of the Innocents. \!any women who have abortions regret their choice, and having to see the white crosses covering South Quad rubs salt into their emotional wound. I realize that the intent of the display is not to evoke feelings of guilt. but this is indisputably an effect of it. My suggestion to the Right to Life Club is this: instead of spend­ing hours making a symbolic cemetery that won't change a single mind, con­struct a single larger cross dedicated to the victims of abortion, both the aborted fetuses and the women who have been scarred by abortion. Then spend the time you save promoting and volunteering for organizations like the Women's Care Center. The 'Women's Care Center is a fine organization that shows women facing crisis pregnancies that they are not alone and that they have real alter­natives to abortion. I'm sure that they will appreciate the extra help. and you will be doing infinitely more good than you do by covering South Quad with little white crosses. 
Mike Freddoso 
1umor 
\!ornssev \!anor Oct. 12 


Remain open to all persons 
Lance Gallop's article on Oct. 13 stat­ed that most people forget that both gay and straight people have similar human "motivations. thoughts. desires. needs and concerns." I vvould agree. One of these desires and needs that is essen­tiallv human is the need to love and to be l~ved. God has placed this need in us. and none of us can denv its exis­tence nor its power. That need is uniquely expressed through sexual desire. and most perfectly through thP sexual act within marriage. Where Gallop and I ditl'er is his leap from thP existence of this dPsire to this desire's role upon identity. 
He goes on to statP that "being gay is not a lifestyle. it is a person: being gay is not a choice. it is a commitment to oneself." I would argue that sadly. Gallop has fallen for what is a common proposition of gay activists. This propo­sition argues that a person's sexuality is the defining fact of their existence. 
This understanding of human anthro­pology is countered by the full exposi­tion of human anthropology by the Catholic Church. and most recently in Pope John Paul II writings on the Theology of the Body. Man is more than one desire. one need. So many needs and desin•s compete for and mastPr our actions. We all know this. and I have found that the Catholic Church's divine­ly inspirPd teaching has alone o!l'ered me the path to frePdom. It teachPs that I am not slave to my sexual desire. or anv desire for that matter. It is a sad thing indeed if I am led to believe that my entire identity. my unique self. is bound to any one of my needs or desires alone. 
The Princeton ReviPw is often quoted in its finding Notre Dame as the num­ber one discriminatory school in regards to alternative-lifestyles. According to their website. this is based upon the question: "I~ there very little discrimination against homosexuals?" As an institution that savs the homosex­ual act is !lat out wrong: of course Notre Dame would garner a high rank­ing. That ranking will always rPmain high because the question refusPs to detPrmine between the person and the act. Those adhering to the Catholic faith must do so. and it is a verv linP line indeed. The Catholic viPw-will alwavs make this distinction. and gay activists must realize that people arP more than there spxual drives. These contrasting views of thP human person are at odds and need to bt> rpcognized. 
Perhaps Gallop is correct about the lack of acceptance at this school towards those who have a same-sex attraction. But acceptance of the person will never mean acceptance of the act. On the llip side. it must also be conced­ed that until the gay activists give up their limited view of the human person there will be little fruitful dialogue in this arena. I hope that those of you who struggle with a same sex attraction. and all of us who struggle with our powerful sexual desires. will not fall prey to this trap. In our hyper-sexualized culture. we are all. homosexual and heterosexu­al alike. bombarded with the idea that our main meaning for existence is our sexuality. Your identity is bound up in much mon' than your sexuality. We are all called to a higher standard than what the world presents. 
Cody Graeber law student Oct. 13 


THE 0HSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Thursday, October 14, 2004 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
McGraw delivers a classic 
less than grade A country from what By COURTNEY WILSON is undoubtndly the best. most Scene Music Critic authentic record he has released. 
With plenty of experience under 
Country music mpgastar Tim his belt. he knew exactly what he McGraw dnlivnrs sonwthing excep­wanted to do on this ninth album. tional with "LivP Like You W1~re Listeners will be surprised to find Dying," his most genuine and errw­the record presents the most real tional album so far. country he has y1~t delivered. On 
Tlw l"irst singl1~. namely that of the previous records McGraw has had a titlo Cf>. has dominated country tendency to perform songs that are music charts all summer long. The more pop country than anything. For tone of tlw album is set entirely by this album. however, he seeks to this single track. dP!'ine a side which is more tradi­

Photo courtesy of www CMT.com

There is an obvious message about tional style cowboy. 
Tim McGraw's "live Like You Were Dying" is a superb album with an uplifting

life. which is conveyNI in each song Fans are certainly familiar with 
message.

on this 1(,-track album. McGraw and McGraw's stage band, to which he his stage band, the I>ancehall credits on his last CD. "Tim McGraw Doctors. reunitt• to d!'liv!'r an album and the Dance hall Doctors." Again fii!Pd with passional!~ idPas about they reunite to cn'ate a collection of songster, lw has not yet attempted to however, the song is writt<~n from thf' living lifP to the fullest. impressive and enthused songs. And write any songs by himself'. Instead, point of' view of tlw papl'r itsPII". 
McGraw fans can expect nothing while Tim McGraw is an amazing he gets help from some of the most Other .favorites should int·ludt•, talented writers and musicians in "Back When." "Drugs or Jesus" and Nashville. Top songwriters Bruce "\\1e Carry On." NotirPably Pnough Hobinson and Darn~! Scott collabo­through tlw titl!'s of both tiH• album rated with him to creal£~ the n~mi­and s(mgs, this record clearly carries niscing song. "Old Town New." a theme about living. Tlw songs con­Hobinson. writer of hit song "Angry tain a philosophy about growing and All The Time." and Scott writer of maturing in life and love. In a way, "It's A Great Day To Be Alive" are each track calls on tlw Iisterwrs to well known favorites in country reevaluate life and to appreciate it in music. its entirety. 
Faith Hill. McGraw's wife and a top Undeniably. "Live like You Wne country songstress, expectedly Dying." with its uplifting messagl's makes an appearance singing har­and nmbedded cong!'niality will monies on the track "Blank Sheet of absolutely leave McGraw fans smil­Paper." This will be an obvious ing. favoritn. as it tells the story of a guy looking to express his feeling for a Contact Courtney Wilson at certain girl. Interestingly enough, cwilson6@nd.edu 
wv
The Thrills loses its edge 
Top 5 spin 

Let's Bottle Bohemia The Thrills 



Wee 

I. Interpol ­
2. The Liber Libertines 
3· Rilo Kile 
down the strip at night in Las caught in headlights" in "Found Vegas. it captures the Southwest my Hosebud." llowever. tlwr!' an~ 

Adventurous ,
spirit. but not in a way that is a few poignant images such as. even remotely original. "l'elt.emptier than a suburban 
"The Irish Keep Gate-Crashing," swimming pool in thn fall" in "Our the last song on the album, is only Wasted Lives" and "And so you about three minutes long. and crave recognition I but the keys to then is followed by interesting the city went missing. I l'eopl1~ 4· Tom Wai instrumentals for another seven aren't puzzles to be figured out." minutns. Tho instrumentals fea­The good and the mediocre an~ turn a violin and guitar and arc closely met in The Thrills' "Let's Gone musically very intriguing and do Bottle Bohemia." A great band, not come across as inappropriate but any Thrills fan will bn disap­for the album. pointed in the lack of energy 
Lyrically, the album is mediocre behind creating a new and distin­at best. While there arc some guislwd sound for themsr.lves. The 5. Kaki King i interesting concepts explored. the Thrills seems to have ironically songs are full of cliches such as, played it safe in the recording of "You can't take the city out of a "Let's Bottle Bohemia." Make Us Lon city girl" in "Faded Beauty Queens" and "So for the first time Contact Becca Saunders at in my life I feel like a country boy rsaunder@nd.edu 
By BECCA SAUNDERS A."i•tant Sct·nc Eduor 
At tlw bPginning of this y1~ar, The Thrills enwrg!'d as a new and uniqtw gnnn• of music. Tlw band hcad Pd bark to tlw SOUnd 0 f tfH~ HPach Boys and fpeJ good California rock with its first album. "So Much for tlu~ City." The fivP Irish nwmlwrs of Tlw Thrills 
appPar(~d  to  hav<'  really <:<lllght  a  
rww wave.  
T 111'  on I y  pro b I em  with  its  

ll!'W<~st album "LPt 's Bottle Boh<'mia" is that it is still riding 
t hn s a m e w a v P t ha t d r o v !' t lw 
1'1\f'rgy on "So Much for tlw City." WhilP "Lot's Bottk Bolwmia" is a g n~ at a I bum with a catchy and unique sound. a better album title would have bPen "So Much for the City: !'art 2." Thn new and unique­ly etwrgizing sound of Tlw Thrills' first album loses part of its punch in a second album that hits too c:losP to tlw sound of tlw first. 
Don't think that "Let's Bottle Bohemia" is a poor album. When the only major problem is that the terrific sound of the first album is too closely emulated, then the album is still good. Many of the songs start to sound the same after the album gnts going. but even so, the actual sound of the music is interesting and ditT(mmt and thus worth hearing. A fpw songs that stand out are "You Can't Fool Old Friends with Limousines," "The Irish Keep GatP-Crashing" and "Not For All tlw Love in the World." The cur­rPnt single, "Whal!wPr Jlappcned to Corey llaim?" is actually one of th1~ weaker tracks on the album. With a bridge that sounds likn it should be the background music to a movie about a guy cruising 

----------------------~--------------------------------------------------~ 
THE 0HSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, October 14, 2004 
page 13 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
Blood Brothers stirs up more mayhem 
By MATTHEW L. SOLARSKI Scene Music Critic 
I. i k ~~ a d u m p t r u c k d r i v i n g t h r o u g h a nitroglycerine plant. Seattle's infamous Blood Brothers have returned to wreak morP havoc with their fourth full-length <•!'fort. "Crimes." 
Comprised of five friends ever seeking to push the proverbial envelope of punk music, the band has amassed considerable notoriety for its incendiary Jive shows and atypical lyrics. which read something like \H P <' k i ng -b a II b e a t p o e t r y . Lo n g t i m e fa n s s h o u I d r P j o i r ~~, as B I o o d Broth e r s are in top form once again on this latest release with the momentum built from 2003's explosive " ... Burn. Piano Island, Burn" showing no signs of waning. 
Sounding like .Junior Senior on PCP, the Hrothns tear through 13 chaotic tracks on "CrimPs," leaving listeners with little time 

of the 
_ntics nes-the 

r-More 
s -Real 
-Legs to er 

CocoRosie channels ghosts of bygone era 
By MATTHEW L. SOLARSKI Scene Music Critic 
Like a whisper from a rick­ety old Victrola or a ghost. enigmatic Parisians CocoHosie has arrived to ensorccll listen­ers with a penchant for the old with "La Maison de Mon HPve." Comprised of sisters Bianca and Sierra Cassady, CocoHosie concoct bizarre hymns from another era with sparsp ballads that ser.p into the subconscious despite their fragility. Those who tire of the increasing predictability of indie rock in this century will do well to embrace this gem, which resonates with a fresh­ness -however paradoxically 
La Maison de Mon Reve CocoRosie Touch & Go 
to breathe and even less time to suture their ruptured eardrums. Showstopper "Peacock Skeleton With Crooked Feathers" opens with the characteristically damaged poetic Blood Brothers lyric, "If the sea shakes I like an empty maraca I and he falls in love I with the sound of ships sink­ing?" The song carries a rabid intensity through several "movements," a veritable head charge that will leave unwarned heads spinning and restless hearts craving more. 
Ironically, several of the Blood Brothers' concoctions have a sing-songy quality to them, with melodies that would not sound entirely out of place in a Disney direct-to­video pseudo-sequel, were they sung by cartoon animals using substantially bowd­lerized lyrics. This is particularly true of title-track "Crimes" with its off-Broadway chorus of "We're scrapped valentines I We're tangerine rinds I We're crimes. crimes, crimes, crimes, crimes." 
This is noisy, 
spastic, highly unnerving rock that is anything but background music and will likely lead many to question its validity as music at all. It is perhaps no 
coincidence,  that  
the  same  week  that  
witnessed  the  

arrival of "Crimes" saw the passing of preeminent decon­structionist .Jacques Derrida. 
While certainly 
-of centuries well past. 
Sounding like Edith Piaf on helium, the sisters pirouette through 12 delicate tracks on this, their lovely debut. One· of the album's most uniquely affecting tracks, "Candyland," showcases the unlikely combi­nation of plaintive mandolin against a backdrop of jarring electronic children's toys. Sierra's opera-trained sopra­no rises up into the mix to deliver the album's most deliriously haunting moment. 
As the story goes, Bianca and Sierra found themselves holed-up in a 19th-century Paris apartment, reluctant to communicate after several 
years  apart.  They  at  last  
found  an  inroad  into  one  
another's lives  - music,  nat­ 

~ ,..,..~, .<·.' '"'~ ~. 

Photo courtesy of V2 Records 
Blood Brothers have a noisy, unnerving brand of 
rock that pushed the proverbial envelope of punk 
music. 
not for everyone, "Crimes" should excite those who are not afraid to make relent­less, frenetic energy a part of their listen­ing experience and positively exhilarate those who live by such energy. 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 

·' 
sharply with the pleasant gui­tar and vocals, a juxtaposition which some may find refresh­ingly synergetic while others may find it annoyingly off-put­ting. 
While certainly not for everyone, "La Maison de Mon Reve" should delight open­minded casual listeners and entrance those who give the Cassady sisters the chance to work their unique magic. 


Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 
urally -and began producing the idiosyncratic songs found on "La Maison," who.se full title translates most fittingly to "The House of My Dream." 
The sisters underscore their turn-of-the-century vocal styling with the strangest assortment of instruments and non-instruments -among them, a jackhammer, an old­fashioned popcorn popper, a Fisher Price electronic cash register and the sound of teeth brushing. Most of this instrumentation contrasts 


page 14 Thursday. ( ktohcr IIJ, lOOIJ
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NFL 

Broncos' Pluininer looks for new-ways to honor former teammate 

AP Denver quarterback Jake Plummer scrambles out of the pocket during the Broncos' win over Tampa Bay Sunday. Plummer wore a sticker on his helmet recently honoring Pat Tillman. 
Associated Press 

DENVER -Pat Tillman always stood up for what he believed. His friend Jake Plummer wanted to as well, but officials from the NFL weren't so keen on letting him. 
Plummer relented Wednesday, agreeing to adhere to the league's dress code and remove a sticker from his hel­met that honored Tillman, who was killed in the war in Afghanistan after quitting foot­ball to join the Army. 
"When it comes to honoring Pat, he's bigger than a sticker on my helmet," Plummer said. "I don't like the fact I can't, but I understand what the league wants to accomplish with its rules and regulations." 
To soften the blow, the NFL said it would not fine Plummer for wearing the sticker last Sunday in violation of league rules. Also, the league agreed to let Plummer tape public-service announcements honoring Tillman and play them in stadi­ums nationwide on the week­end after Veteran's Day. 
"We, too, want to continue to keep Pat Tillman's legacy alive, but ... we have rules regarding personal messages on uniforms that we needed to apply consis­tently," the NFL said in a state­ment. 
Tillman, a former teammate of Plummer's at Arizona State and with the Arizona Cardinals, quit the league in 2002 to join the Army Rangers. He died in combat in April. 

To honor the former safety, all NFL players wore the No. 40 decal on their helmets during the second week of the season. 
Plummer wanted to keep his own tribute going past the sec­ond week. Warned of possible fines by the NFL, Plummer backed down for the next two games. But against the Panthers last Sunday, the stick­er reappeared. At that time, Plummer said giving up the fight just didn't feel right, and he agreed to accept whatever fine was levied and urged fans to donate to the Pat Tillman Foundation. 
By Wednesday, the story had gained footing well beyond Broncos headquarters and the NFL offices. Arizona Sen. John McCain sent a letter to NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue criticizing the league's policy. Colorado Sen. Wayne Allard also weighed in. 
"I find it disheartening that the National Football League 
will penalize a player for honor­ing a fallen soldier, friend and American hero," Allard wrote in a letter to the commissioner. 
In its statement, the NFL said "we look forward to working together with" Plummer and announced it has donated $250,000 to build the first USO facility in Afghanistan, which will be named after Tillman. 
The Broncos will honor Tillman by putting up a big No. 40 logo in the stadium. 
The NFL has long had a strict uniform policy banning untucked shirts, unlicensed logos and unapproved decals and signs worn on uniforms and helmets, regardless of the reason. 
In one of the more famous episodes, Bears quarterback Jim McMahon played with an Adidas ad plastered on his headband. 
Then-commissioner Pete Rozelle told him not to, so McMahon came back with a headband that said "Rozelle." McMahon was fined. 
Plummer, who signed a $40 million contract last year and could afford any fine levied by the NFL, knew he was walking a fine line between doing what he believed was right and caus­ing a distraction. 
Rice looks to get 
out of Oakland 
Associat~d Press 
ALAMEDA. Calif. -Jerry 
Rice was scheduled to meet 
with Oakland Haiders ownPr 
AI Davis on Wednesday night 
to discuss the receivpr's future 
after he said he wants to be 
traded. 
"If there's something that 
can be done, it will be 
done, "coach Norv Turner said 
following Wednesday's prac­
tice and after a conversation 
with Rice. "Everything's too 
vague right now for me to gnt 
into any specifics. lie's 
expressed his wishes and we'll 
just see what happens." 
The last time Davis met with 
a receiver was during training 
camp, and Tim Brown was 
released the next day after 
refusing to accept a greatly 
diminished role with the 
Raiders. 
Rice is making $1.35 million 
in base salary this season. He 
spent Wednesday -his 42nd 
birthday -defending his abil­
ity to catch passes yet again. 
That's the umpteenth time . already this sea­
son. 
Mariucci. his l'ornwr coach at San Francisco. 
Haiders senior personnel executive Michael Lombardi denied there was ever a trade in the works. Hice's agent . .lim Steiner. was out of the country and unavailable. 
Mariucci said Wednesday he had rPad about Bien's situa­tion, but that the Lions wen~ committed to dPveloping tlwir young receiving corps. 
"That's where we're lwad­Pd,"hp said. "W1~'re head!'d forward with these guys. The trade deadlirw is next week. Not a lot of trades go on in foot b a II. T h c r c are so m~~ rumors about several receivers and other players too, but we haven't given it a lot of serious consideration only because we're committed to our guys right now and headed in a certain direction where guys are going to be here for several years." 
Rice, the NFL's career leader in catches and touchdowns and the only receiver to ever play after age 40. has just five receptions for 67 yards and no touchdowns. !lis record streak of 
His complain­274 consecutive
"If I have to leave, I 
ing is becoming games with a
have to go. That's
a ·weekly occur­catch ended in a rence. the bottom line." 13-10 win over ''I'm not trying Buffalo in Week to force any­2. He threw a
Jerry Rice
thing, but. you sideline tantrum
Raiders' receiver 
after that game. 
know, it doesn't make any sense for me to stay here if things continue going this way,"Rice said, reiterating he'd like to be traded. 
"I didn't envision what's going down right now. r pretty much was under the impres­sion I was going to be a big factor this year, be a part of the offense and have opportu­nities to make plays." 
Rice, who claims he was never informed he'd have such a diminished role, told a Sacramento radio station Tuesday that he expected to be traded before the Oct. 19 deadline and would embrace the chance to play elsewhere because he "can't go out this way." 
There also have been rumors about a possible trade with the Detroit Lions that would reunite Rice with Steve 
lie compared 
his current situa­tion to the one he faced with the 49ers four years ago when they let him go and decided to give their young receivers more opportunities. 
"It's not up to me to fix it. If I did that. then I would be running the team."Rice said, laughing. "You know what, I look at the situation and it's always a business. That's the way I've approached it. Sometimes you're just dealt a bad hand. If I have to leave, I have to go. That's the bottom line. If I go to another team, then I'm going to do every­thing possible to help that team to win." 
!lis teammates sympathize. 
"Everybody wants to be involved in the game," receiv­er Ronald Curry said. "Jerry should be involved." 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr ro edit  
all classifieds for conrem without issuing refunds.  
SPRING BREAK with BIANCHI- Cold Season is here  
ROSSI TOURS! The BEST Spring  Flu-shot alternative All Natural!  
WANTED  FoR SALE  TICKETS  PERSONAL  Break Under the Sun I  Protect yourself fromcolds & flu.  

 
 Acapulco-Vallarta-Mazatlan-Cancun  Contact Mandy Hosier 574-876­ 
PART-TIME WORK Great pay,flex  DOMUS PROPERTIES -NOW  BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX  Spring break 2005 Challenge ..find  & Cabo. Book by Oct 31 =FREE  7525 AdvoCare.com or  
sched.,saleslsvc.all ages18+,cond.  LEASING FOR 2005-2006  a better price! Lowest price spe- MEALS & FREE  debtbusters@ureach.com  
apply,  SCHOOL YEARS.  PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273­ cials! Free Mealsl November 6th  DRINKSI Orgranize a group-GO  
273-4878  ONLY 6 HOUSES LEFT  3911  deadline!  FREE! 800-875-4525 or  A top five ranking without playing a  
WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES  Hiring reps-earn free trips and cash!  www.bianchi-rossi.com  ranked team? I Purdon'! get it.  
BABYSITTER WANTED:  NEAR CAMPUS.  For Sale: ND football tix.  www.sunsplashtours.com  
22-month-old twins.  2-3-5-7 BEDROOM HOUSES,  1800-426-771 0  Spring Break Bahamas Celebrity  Go for the three-peat Ray Ray  
5-6 hours,  STUDENTNEIGHBORHOODS,  Good prices. 232-Q964.  Party Cruise! 5 Days $299! Includes  
1-2 weekdays.  SECURITY SYSTEMS, MAINTE- Make your own hours All you do is  Meals,  Baseball or debates?  
Occasional weekend evenings.  NANCE STAFF ON CALL,  Wanted: ND football tix.  sell the Hawaiian Tropic Break 2005  Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Nassau,  
Call Kara at 574-621-1540  WASHER DRYERS VISIT OUR  Travel Program Represent an  Jamaica From $459' Panama City &  Goooo Theology  
WEBSITE  Top$$$  American Express Student Travel  Daytona  Yay for Catholicism  
DAMONS GRILL is now accepting  WWWDOMUSKRAMER.COM  251-1570.  Company  $159! www.SpringBreakTravelcom  
applications for SERVERS AND  OR CONTACT:  Guaranteed Highest  1 -800-678-6386  I hate the New York Yankees  
HOSTS. These positions do not  KRAMER (574)234 2436 OR  NO ftball tix bought & sold a.m. 232­ Commission. Free Trips & Great for  
open up very often. Apply in person  (574)315-5032.  2378 p m. 288-2726  Resume  Like Mother Teresa? Great gift for  Vandelay Industries! Say Vandelay'  
to join our award winning Jearn.  Your pay equals your efforts  Mom or Grandma Simple. Inspiring.  

52885 US 933 N 574-272-5478 2-6 Bedroom homes for 05-06 Buying and selling ND football tix, American Conversational Inexpensive. Check That makes fire alarm number 9 1 mile north of N.D Walking distance from ND especially Boston College 574-289-Student Vacations 1-800-336-2260 it out at 
-
(next to Comfort Suites) MMMRentals.com 532-1408 8048 www. americanstudent. info www.motherteresasdoorcom Irish 34 Navy 3 The streak goes on 
Thursday, October 14, 2004 page 15
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
PRESENTED BY 
University of Notre Dame & Saint Mary's College 





It'S SIMPLE. It's cold. People Need Coats. 
DONATE A COAT to a Project Warmth collection box and get 2 5 %0 0 a NEW COAT at the Bookstore. 
esc 

CENTER  FOR  
-~:Q.~h*' out our webpage for details and sponsors at:  s o c 1 A L  
ln~R'rmti t~tfQJ:sociai cncerns. nd. ed u/Proj ectWarmth ?index. html  coNCERNS  
email :projwarm@nd.edu  




Thursday, October 14, 2004 

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS 
MLB 

Bad ankle might keep Schilling out of ALCS 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Boston ace Curt Schilling might not be able to pitch Game 5 of the AL championship series Sunday because of his injured right ankle, which will require sur­gery after the playoffs. 
Schilling, who led the major leagues with 21 wins, lasted just three innings and 58 pitch­es in Boston's 10-7 loss to the New York Yankees in Tuesday night's opener, allowing six runs, his poorest postseason performance since 1993. He had trouble with his balance and pushing off the rubber, which cut his velocity. 
If Schilling can't pitch, he probably would be replaced by Derek Lowe, a starter all sea­son who struggled down the stretch and has thrown just 12 pitches in relief in the playoffs. 
"If we're not able to overcome some adversity," manager Terry Francona said, "we're not a good enough team." 
Red Sox team physician Dr. Bill Morgan said before Wednesday's game that the sheath that covers two tendons in Schilling's ankle is torn, allowing one of the tendons to slip out of its groove and rub against a bone. Schilling didn't feel discomfort while pitching Tuesday because he was inject­ed with a painkiller. 
"We won't compromise the team by sending out Curt Schilling who won't be effec­tive," general manager Theo Epstein said. 
The Red Sox are trying to cre­ate a customized brace to hold the slipping tendon in place outside the sheath. Morgan was "relatively optimistic" that the ankle could be stabilized. 
"We're going to take another shot at it and continue to use every medical technique under the sun to try to get this tendon stabilized so he can go out there again," Morgan said. "We have no guarantees." 
Schilling is to throw in the bullpen before Friday's third game. If he doesn't have more success, he probably wouldn't pitch again this year, even if the Red Sox reach the World Series, Morgan said. 
"Knowing Curt, he might want to try," Morgan said. "If we can't accomplish getting him his next start. then he has to make a decision if he wants surgery right away." 
He suspected that Schilling would delay surgery so he could stay with the team even if he can't pitch. Schilling will need about three months to recover from an operation and should be ready for spring training. 
"If this was midseason and we had a few months to play with, he would have been placed in a cast and potentially undergone surgery," Morgan said. 
Schilling had pitched well after getting hurt on Sept. 21 against Baltimore. (The injury was first diagnosed as tendini­tis.) In that game, a 3-2 Red Sox win, he struck out 14 and allowed three hits and one walk in eight shutout innings. 
Five days later in an 11-4 vic­tory over the Yankees, he gave up two runs and one hit in seven innings. And in the open­er of the AL division series in Anaheim, he allowed two earned runs and nine hits in 6 2-3 innings. 
Schilling appeared to aggra­vate the injury in the seventh inning against the Angels when he fielded Garret Anderson's grounder, threw wildly to first and grabbed his right ankle. He faced just one more batter in that 9-3 victory. 
Schilling wears a boot on his right foot when he's not in uni­form. 
"I think Schill has been shoot­ing for last night's game since last Thanksgiving when Theo and those guys went out and signed him," Francona said. "He was waiting to pitch that game and he could not pitch that game the way he's able to physically. I'm sure that was very discouraging." 
Lowe, one of the best closers in baseball before becoming a starter, is eager to pitch more ilianheh~. · 
''I'm proud of what I've done the last four years." 


1.5GHz Pe,tJum® M with Integrated 802.11blg 1.5GHz PentiumR M with Integrated 802.11alb/g Window• XP Pro Wirele&$ Nstworking W1ndows XP Pro W~rele&a Networking 
14.1 lnllh $Craan 66t<;bs Moc1em 14.1 inch s<:reen 56Kba Modem 40GB H,fl:rd Drive Ethernet NIC 30GB Hard Drive Ethernet NIC 266MB DDR ~DRAM 3..y.or worranty 512MB DDR SDRAM 3-year w•rranty CD·RW/DVO Combo Drive CO-RW/DVO Combo Drive 
$1.649.00 $1,934.00 
Popular Options and Accessories (Oiscounlad Pr1ces Rabctad) 
Targus Backpack Kensington Lock Accidental Damage 256K Flash Drive $55.00 73P3599 $39.95 !11111!17S $314.00 73P2!182 $49.95 DBK8Zll• 
The featured models include: 3Vear Parts&: Labor Warranty (Battery: 1Vear). 24 HourToii-FreeTechnlcal Support, Rapid 
Restor~ Rescue and Recovery Software, Norton AntiVIru• 2004 (OEM Edition), Internet Scroll Bar, 
Spifi~Reslstant Keyboard, Touchpad andTrackpolnt, Hard Drive Shock Ab•orber. 

The Village Voice -J. Hobennan 
"Stunningly beautiful... 'Innocence' doesn't 
just reveal awealth of visual 
enchantments; it restates 
the case that there can be 
more to feature-length 
animations than cheap jokes, 
bathos and pandering." 
The New Yor1< Times· Manohla Dargis 
"Let the images of 'Ghost in the 
Shell 2: Innocence' wash ove~you1 
and enjoy the beautiful ride.''x-
Los Angeles Times •Kevin Crust 
When machines learn 
to feel, who decides 
what is human... 
GHO 
OFFICIAL ;)
SELECTION 2004 
CANNES INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL 
SORRY, NO PASSES ACCEPTED. CHECK THEATRE DIRECTORIES FOR SHOWTIMES 

STARTS FRIDAY, 
OCTOBER 15 
Thursday, October 14, 2004 
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

\X·~Hch sonK· of !'[)s111ost talt·ntt.:d totnl'clians bank f(H prizes, indudi1u~ $100 and rhc Lhancc to op~n h>r I eg~:nds, next prol~~ssional rotnt·di.ln. 

CoNVENiENTLY Jnc{zufed uitli rentfor a £19diPElD time 
LOCAlED AT 1HE 

-P(j{PlEfu£fprivilege membersliip to tlie
CORNER OF IRONWOOD& Castle [J>oint Jfealtli andf~Juquet ctub 
CLEVELAND JUST 
t4NU1'ES FROM incfiufino: *Pitn£ss Cet~Ur *Outdoor 0·(/{ UNIVERSflY MAu.. 
{Itufoor) lCJ'oo{ I
MON-FRI96; 
I 

SAT 1 2-4 
~t&acli ·tJolkybal£ *Sauna d Wfiit{poo{ 
l 

*2 Cf{acquet6allCourts *In/Outdoor I I 
LARGE 

6askflba!l I 
ONE REDROOII I 
I

37 sq ft) Starting *I nfouufoor £iehtetf·Tennis Courts_ftnd I 
I I 

$471..00 ***'!.M.OffP~ ~ ~ I I 
I LARGE I I 
TWO BEDROOMS HURRY IN FOR A -I 
(1.025 sq It} Starling at 
TOUR OF THE MOST 
$576.00 

& POPULAR 
Ask About The 

APARTMENTS WHILE 
FURNISHED 

J\RTMENTS.. THEY LAST. 
VISIT OUR WEBSITE@ 
WWW..CASTLE-POINT..COII 



OUND THE NATION 
Page 18 COMPILED FROlvt 'fHE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES Thursday, October 14, 2004 
Women's Soccer Top 25 
team record :~::::: 
1 NOTRE DAME 14-0-0 2 North carolllla 12-6·1 3 Penn Stale 1H·1 4 Portland 11~2..:(} 5 Virginia 10·1·1 6 Texas A&M 12-3-D 1 Washing~on 9·2·1 8 UCLA 9-3-0 9 Kansas 12+241 10 Duke 11)-3-0 11 Princeton 9·1-0 12 Tennessee 9-2-2 13 Michigan 9-3-2 14 Florida State 111·3·0 15 Stanford 8-2-2 16 Ohio State 8·2·3 17 Santa Clara 7-4-2 18 West VIrginia 11-3-D 19 Auburn 10·2·1 20 Boston College 9-4-0 21 Southern Methodist 8·2·2 22 usc 8·3·1 23 Florida 9·3-2 24 Illinois 11)-4.,0. 25 San Diego 7·6·1 


NFL  
tmun New England N.Y. Jets Buffalo Miami  AFC East record perc. 4-0 1.000 4-0 1.000 0·4 .000 0·5 .000  PF 105 98 51 42  
tetun  AFC North record perc~  PF  
Pittsburgh Baltimore Cleveland Cinclnnau  4·1 3-2 2·3 1·3  .800 .600 .400 .400  112 97 82 66  
/  tnam lndlalla~ll$ Jackonsville Houston Tennessee  AFC South record perc, 4-1 .800 H .600 2-3 .400 2-3 .400  PF 1$9 73 118 111,  
team Denver San Diego Oakland Kansas City  AFC West record pore; 4·1 .BOO 3-2 ,,.600" 2·3 ;400 1·3 .250  PF .!19 140 9S 81}  
team  NFC East record P~fCi  PF  
Philadelphia N.Y. Giani~ Dallas Washington  4-0 4·1 2-2 1-4  1.000 ·.· .BOO .500 .200  101 104 67 n  

NFC North  
temn  record  perc.  
Delroll  3·1  .7$0  
Minnesota  3·1  .750  
Chicago  1-3  .250  
Green S.y  H  .200  



NFC South 

team record Mt()~ •.• EF Atlanta 4·1 .800 98 New Drlealls 2·3 .400 92 .250 ,..
Carolina 1-3 69 Tampa Bay H ;200 69 
NFC West 

team record ~tt\ .. , PF Seallle 3·1 ,. JliO t ..·•.· 92 ·'·•••• 
St.louis 3·2 .soo••··• ··'····,..··tu '•' AriZona 1-4 san Fran~;,is~ 1-4 
,,:~:~'·· . :~ 
PA 63 
7S 
73 
., 87 
PA 
94 70 9S 9S 
PA 
tOG 
8~ 
127 
11l. 
PA 
74 115
. tt9 110 
·,, .."PA: 
:-::··:..·>·::.:.·· 
.. ,J)S· , 
72 91 85 
> r~,.,,.· ... 6&, 
127 
······'"''·~··••''·'
•;$ 


,,,, ?iJ ,.•··•, 
AA'? }
>'·•··· Hf< } 
~­
····,···.·· > 

around the dial 
MLB 

Houston at St. Louis 7~15 p.m., FOX 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL Louisville at Miami 6:30 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


AP 

Yankees' pitcher Jon Lieber strides towards the plate during New York's 3-1 Game 2 victory over Boston Wednesday night. Lieber shut out the Red Sox Into the eighth inning as the Yankees took a 2-0 lead In the ALCS. 
Yankees defeat Sox 
Cards win Game 1 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Pedro Martinez has a new "Daddy." His name is Jon Lieber. 
While the raucous crowd at Yankee Stadium taunted Martinez with booming chants of "Who's Your Daddy?" Lieber shut down the highest-scoring offense in the major leagues. 
A No. 5 starter pitching against a three-time Cy Young Award winner, Lieber to~k a shutout into the eighth inning. John Olerud backed him with a two-run homer in the sixth off the tiring Martinez, and the Yankees beat the Red 
"These two games were huge, especially tonight," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. 
After Orlando Cabrera singled leading off the third inning for Boston's first hit, Lieber retired 13 straight batters before David Ortiz singled in the seventh. 
"He pounded the strike zone down," Boston man­ager Terry Francona said. 
Boston had seen Lieber recently. On Sept. 18, he took a no-hit bid against the Red Sox into the sev-. enth inning. 
IN BRIEF 

Colts sign new QB, release 
Hamilton 

INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis Colts signed quarterback Travis Brown to their practice squad on Wednesday and released former Georgia Tech star Joe Hamilton. 
Brown spent the last three seasons with the Buffalo Bills before reaching an injury settlement with the Bills in September. The agreement allowed Brown to become a free agent. 
He sprained his left knee in a pre­season game against Indianapolis on 
Aug. 28 and  wore a  brace on  the  
knee  at  the  Colts'  practice  on  
Wednesday.  

In four NFL seasons, Brown is 29­of-52 for 361 yards with one touch­down and three interceptions. He spent the 2000 season with the Seattle Seahawks. 
Colts coach Tony Dungy said the move was made because the team believed Brown was healthy, bigger and stronger than Hamilton, who started the season as the Colts' top 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Make no mistake about it -this is a sluggers' series. 
Albert Pujols homered early, Larry Walker deliv­ered three key hits and the St. Louis Cardinals with­stood four IIouston shots to outlast the Astros 10-7 Wednesday night in Game 1 of the NL championship series. 
Slumping Scott Rolen and Jim Edmonds also con­tributed, and winning pitcher Woody Williams even helped out with a big double for the league's top­hitting team. 
Together. that was enough -barely -to withstand homers by Carlos Beltran. J.ancP Berkman. Jeff Kent and Mike Lamb. 
And it was a significant victory: The last 11 tParns to win the opener of the NLCS have gone on to the World Series. 
"We couldn't quite get the outs that we neP.ded." Astros manager Phil Garner said. 
The Cardinals and Astros took turns whacking shots all over Busch Stadium. with Walker finishing a home run shy of becoming the first player in postsea­son history to hit for the cycle. 
backup to Peyton Manning. 
Hamilton finished second to Wisconsin's Ron Dayne in the 1999 Heisman Trophy voting, but has yet to throw an NFL pass.
Jenkins out tor season with 
shoulder injury 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -All-Pro defensive tackle Kris Jenkins was lost for the season Wednesday to a shoulder injury, the fourth important member of the Carolina Panthers out for the year. 
It was the latest blow to the defending NFC champions, who are already without top receiver Steve Smith (broken leg) and No. 2 running back DeShaun Foster (broken collar­bone.) 
Star running back Stephen Davis has also missed three games with a knee injury, leaving Carolina (1-3) thin on talent all over the field. 
''I've never seen anything like this. Not like this, not the guys that we had go down," said defensive tackle Kindal Moorehead. who will replace 
Jenkins. "We had main guys go down like Kris and Steve and Stephen Davis missing a couple games. It just shows what kind of team this is going to be -either we're going to fold or we're going to step in and make the plays we need to make." 
Kuznetsova wins, Safin 
loses at Kremlin Cup 
MOSCOW-U.S. Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova defeated quali­fier Michaela Pastikova 6-2, 6-4 Wednesday, joining fellow Hussians Vera Zvonareva and Elena Bovina in the quarterfinals of the Kremlin Cup. 
On the men's side, top-seeded Marat Safin was upset by Radek Stepanek of the Czech Republic 7-6 (8). 4-6, 6-3. 
Stepanek, No. 72 on the t\TP Tour rankings, broke the Hussian's serve twice in the final set to pull out the 2 1/2-hour match. Salin is ninth in the rankings. 
Zvonareva. seeded sixth. rallied to beat Karolina Sprem of Croatia. 
-

Thursday, October 14, 2004 page 19
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
-~ 
Coleman-Morse Center 574-631-7800 
0

Campus Ministry 
ministry.1 @nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu 
• 

h ' h . october JS :_22____ tuesday 1o.26 considerations... 


Have a blessed & safe Fall Break! 

Mass 30 Minutes after the Game Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Mass 45 Minutes after the Game Stepan Center 
sunday 10.24 
Mass 8:00am, 1O:OOam, & 11 :45am Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
monday 1o.25 ___________ 
Eucharistic Adoration 12:00 noon-7:00pm Every Monday-Thursday Coleman-Morse Chapel 
Visit o campusministry.nd .edu 
for more info! 

Advent Bible Study Tuesdays thru Dec 7 
! 7:00 -8:00 PM Drop-Ins Welcome! Coleman-Morse 114 
lftar: Muslim Student Assn. Ramadan Dinner 5:15-7:30PM Colema.n-Morse Lounge 
i wednesday 10.21 
/Four:?/ Contemporary 
Christian Prayer Service 10:00pm Coleman-Morse Lounge 

friday 10.29 
Freshman Retreat #54 Friday-Saturday Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Notre Dame Encounter #82 Friday-Sunday Fatima Retreat Center 

food tor thought... As we Hta/ie ot.r way 

tArot.tJA AAtt.HtH, let t.S reHteHtGer HiHt wAo sa"ed t.S lroHt tAo 'laee. 
For if by that one person's transgression 
-~I 

the many died, how much more did the 
d 
grace of God and the gracious gift of the one person Jesus Christ overflow for the many. In conclusion, just as through one transgression condemnation came upon all, so through one righteous act acquittal and life came to all. 
-Romans 5:15,18 
mass schedule 

The NDE, The Retreat, The Myth... 
What is this retreat REALLY about?? by The NDE Board 

Do you have doubts and questions about going on the NDE? Are you ridiculously excited about a Notre Dame retreat and want to know more about the NDE? Are you bored with the rest of the newspaper and want something fun to read? 
. We invite you to read on, friend. 

If you have ever asked a friend about the Notre Dame Encounter with Christ retreat in an attempt to get to know more about it, you may have gotten the response, "Just go." You probably realized that they loved the experience, had a great time, and really want you to go. But what happens on an NDE? Why is it a big secret? Why are people talking about it so much, but never giving you all the details? Let us shed some light on the matter. 
Everyone here at Notre Dame is experiencing faith in a different way. Our relationships with our friends, our prayer life, and our own identity are all affected by the relationship we hold with God. Simply enough, the NDE is an opportunity to explore all ofthat. It is a forum for thoughtful discussion. It is a step away from the chaos of campus. It is a hilarious time with friends, old and new. Most importantly, though, the NDE is an answer to a calling. . 
Each of us is called to know Christ. This is a challenge for most of us, don't worry. A retreat like this one, though, is an opportunity to examine what that relationship is for you, and what it means for your future. The retreat offers small group discussions, talks by team members, skits, shared prayers, and celebrations all established with the intent of experiencing Christ in our daily lives. 
The retreat can be a challenge, no doubt. Some participants are nervous about the small group discussions, others aren't sure about their faith life, some have loads of questions, and some are so burdened by life here that they feel a retreat is the last thing they can handle. Hesitant friends, have faith. The NDE simply requires an open heart. You may respond to the experience differently from your friends. You may experience something profound and ask of yourself new questions. Ultimately, you will be a witness to Christ's presence in our world. 
There are, of cdurse, some rumors floating around. There are those that have said that the NDE is only for the campus-ministry groupie. WRONG! Perhaps you've heard that the NDE is a huge sob-fest. NOT TRUE! Maybe you've heard it is best experienced in your senior year. DON'T WAIT! No matter what myth you've heard, let us assure you that your experience on an NDE is going to be unique to who you are. This retreat has the potential to enliven your faith, strengthen your friendships, and spark a new spirit within you. When friends tell you to "Just go", they mean, "It was a spiritual experience. I learned new things about myself, news things about my relationships with others and discovered a deeper relationship with Christ. You will too." 
There are five NOEs offered this school year, and the first is October 291h-31 81 • It is open to students of all years. Applications are available online at http:// campusministry.nd .edu/ or can be picked up in 114 Coleman-Morse center. 
Just go. 
i I 
I

Around Campus (every Sunday) I I 
I 


Saturday. October 23 Sunday, October 24 
Vigil Mass at the Basilica 8:00am .,I I 30 minutes after the Game Rev. Nicholas R. Ayo, esc 1
,

1:30 p.m. 5:00 p.m. 7:00 p.m. 4
Rev. Richard S. Bullene, esc. 1
10:00 am Spanish Mass Law School Mass MBA Mass 1 Most Rev. John M. D'Arcy St. Edward's Law School Commons Mendoza COB I Vigil Mass at Stepan Center 
Bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend Hal/Chapel Faculty Lounge 
45 minutes after the Game Rev. William D. Seetch, esc 11:45am Most Rev. Daniel R. Jenky, esc Bishop of Peoria 

page 20 Thursday, October 14, 2004 
The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Rainblers stop Bats,· Inove to 3-1 on year 
By RYAN KIEFER and MATT 
PUGLISI 
Sports Writers 
The Siegfried Hamblers had one thing on their minds Wednesday night when they broke their pre-game huddle. They yelled one simple word. 
"Stadium!" 
Siegfried took a big step toward returning to the cham­pionship game by securing a playoff berth with a 20-8 victo­ry over Zahm. The Ramblers never trailed and were sprung to victory by their defense, which forced three Habid Bat turnovers. 
Zahm came qut poised to execute its ball control o!Tense, as the team ran its misdirec­tion ground attack to near per­fection on its first drive. 
The Bats used the entire first quarter clock, driving the ball inside the 10-yard line behind the running of halfback Corey Brisee. 
The 15-play drive stalled. however, ending with a dropped pass on fourth and goal. 
The offense was unable to sustain another drive of this duration as three of its remaining five possessions ended in turnovers. 
"We made it real hard on ourselves, putting the ball on the ground and throwing inter­ceptions," Zahm coaci1 Hich Petty said. 
The Siegfried offense coun­tered Zahm's initial drive with an impressive march of its own. 
Tailback Matt Wopperer was able to rip ofT huge chunks of yardage, finishing the drive with 65 yards and a 1-yard touchdown run. Wopperer made a key contribution on defense as well coming up with a crucial interception in the second half. 
The Hamblers were able to convert this interception into six points when quarterback Brian Vithe threw a 4 7 -yard touchdown pass to begin the fourth quarter. 
,-
Zahm responded with a quick score on a 46-yard pass from Sean Wieland to Jake Hichardville, but Siegfried put the game out of reach on its next drive. 
Heceiver John Kaup caught four passes for 66 yards on the drive, including an 18-yard touchdown that accounted for the final margin. 
The extra touchdown may prove crucial to Siegfried when the playoffs start in two weeks. 
"We really wanted to score on that last drive because we realize how important point differential will be in playoff seeding," Siegfried captain Kevin Phipps said. 
The Ramblers will start their playoff run after fall break. Their post-game mindset was no different from their pre­game thinking. 
''I'm a senior, and I've been to the stadium each of my three years," Phipps said. "I want to make it four this year." 
Sorln 34, Carroll 13 
The Otters intercepted Carroll three''times and returned two of them for touchdowns as turnovers forced Carroll into an early 
hole. 
"They_were up 14-0 in the first quarter and you can't run the ball when you're down with a running clock." Vermin free safety Matt Wormington said. "So we had to throw, and they made plays." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer and Matt Puglisi at rkiefer@nd.edu and mpuglisi@nd.edu 

(THAT'S WHAT THIN DORM WALLS ARE FOR) 

Dependable service. Simple plans. That's what we're for. 
$20{,~t~e first 6 months, $39.95 thereafter)  Camera Phone  
Call and Text Plan  
• 1000 Anytime Minutes  
• Unlimited Call Me Minutes  
• FREE Incoming Text Messages  
• 250 Text Messages a month  
FREE for 2 months  
Ask about Nights & Weekends starting at 7 p.m.  "f< US.Cellular  

Limited time offer. 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 

service agreements of $39.95 or higher. 50% access discount valid for the first 6 months of a 2 year contract Unlimited Gall Me Minutes are only available In the local calling area and are not are available in the local calling area for $4.95 per month. 'Text messaging 250 package Is $5.95 thereafter, $0.10 per outgoing message beyond 250. Must call to cancel. Offers may expired early termination fee. Customer Is responsible for all sales taxes. Other restrictions may apply. See store for details. Umited time offer. Roaming charges, fees, surcharges and taxes may apply, 
sales taxes. u.s. Cellular 
SMC SocCER 
Belles suffer heartbreaker 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
Sometimes the breaks just don't fall your way. 
Saint Mary's knows that feel­ing well after the ·Belles lost to Kalamazoo Wednesday night 1­0 on a penalty kick with 32 sec­onds left in the game. 
"We played well as a team," senior midfielder Emily Wagoner said. "We had a prob­lem capitalizing on our oppor­tunities. It wasn't a lack of effort." 
The call that buried the Befies came when midfielder Carrie Orr caught Hornet forward Aliza Caplan from behind on a breakaway. The referee blew the whistle, and the freshman Caplan buried the kick in the back of the net to seal the game for Kalamazoo. 
The loss drops the Belles to 6­3-1 in conference play, putting them in a tie for third place with Kalamazoo. 
Saint Mary's had plenty of chances to score in the game outshooting the Hornets 23-11. But Kalamazoo goalkeeper Monisha Berkowski came up with 13 saves to keep the Belles in check. 
"We were extremely disap­pointed with the loss," Wagoner said. "It's tough to play hard for a whole game and then lose like this." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 



Thursday, October 14, 2004 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 
advantage at 22-19, but Notre really let us get runs with point counterparts to 13 kills on .130 hit­in an impressive display of its stay­Dame rallied to even the score at scoring." ting. ing power, finishing off Illinois
Redbirds 
22-22 after a three-point run. Illinois State notched its first vic­Thriving on the momentum from State 15-10. After the Irish built a Ultimately, the Irish pulled ahead tory of the night in the third game, its win. Illinois State claimed the four-point advantage at 14-10,
continued from page 24 
for good, overcoming the Redbird 30-25. The Redbirds took advan­fourth game 30-23. The Redbirds Brewster secured the win with a maintained the stalemate through­defense 34-32. tage of a lull in the Irish offense, improved their hitting, registering kill. out most of the game, matching "We were both fighting for each stepping up their efforts to collect 17 kills and a .205 hitting percent­each other point for point. point," Henican said. "Illinois State 17 kills and .180 on hitting. age. Contact Ann Loughery at 
Illinois State held the biggest is solid all-around. They didn't Defensively, they limited their But Notre Dame bounced back alougher@nd.edu 
International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 INNSBRUCK 2005-2006 Academic Year Please Join Prof. Hannelore Weber and returnees of the program Information Session Wednesday, October 2 7, 2004 116 DEBARTOLO 7:00PM Applications A vailable wwwlnd.edu/-intlstud Questions?-Weber.l5@nd.edu Ap plication Deadline: November 15, 2004  
Looking For Fun? We Got It! Bowl 574-234-4167 near the airport 9 pm to 1 amMonday 2~ hours of Unlimited Bowling College Nite Just $6.95 per Person 9:30 pm to 1 am Thursday99¢ bowling, shoes, pizza slices, and soda College Dirt (limited time offer) Cheap Nite Dance Commissioners: Call Beacon Bowl to reserve your next dance!  

MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 
Alutnni, Dillon renevv bitter rivalry tonight 
By BRAD WALLACE and 
CHRIS KHOREY 
Hatred could prove to be a deadly weapon. 
Each hoping to outdo the other in a contest of athleticism and masculinity, Alumni (2-1) and Dillon (2-0-1) will meet tonight at 7 p.m. at Riehle Field, as one of the most intense rivalries on cam­pus will be tested. 
Although they will attempt to stay focused, Dillon captain Mike Roaldi believes that it will be very difficult to overlook the competi­tive history of the two halls. 
"We're going to go into this like it's just another game," Roaldi said. "But the rivalry between our dorms gives us a really good rea­son to get pumped up and excited to play." 
The Big Red has proven to be a defensive powerhouse in past weeks, not allowing a single point in three games. 
"Our defense has definitely been a strong point this season," Roaldi said. "Last week, they did­n't give up a first down, and they've created a lot of turnovers, which definitely helps our offense a lot." 
Alumni has also posted impres­sive defensive stats this season, forcing a number of turnovers. Tonight, they will be pitted against Dillon's strong running game. 
"We've been running the ball really well the past few games," Roaldi said. "We would like to open up our passing game a little more, though. If we could do that, it would take a lot of pressure off our running backs. and I think our offense would improve a lot." 
Tonight's game will be the last of the regular season for Dillon and Alumni, but neither is consid­ering its season over. 
"We want to get a big win so we have some momentum going into the playoffs," Roaldi said. "There are a lot of things we need to keep doing in order to have a good shot in the playoffs.. In the end, I think that the most disci­plined team will do the best throughout the postseason." 
Alumni captain A.J. Remen was unavailable for comment. 
O'Neill vs Stanford 
Stanford and O'Neill both enter this week with major questions offensively. The Griffins have not scored in two weeks and the Angry Mob's brand-new Wing-T has resulted in a very high num­ber of turnovers. When the two teams meet tonight at 8 p.m. at South Riehle Field. the winner will be the team whose offense can move the ball and put points on the board. 
That task does not seem easy for O'Neill, who is facing a Stanford defense that has shut out its last two opponents. 
"We know they have a very tough defense," Mob captain Mike Milligan said. "They've been play­ing some good teams and shutting them down." 
Milligan hopes his defense will be able to force turnovers and put the Mob offense in promising situ­ations. 
"We're going to need our defense to get us good field posi­tion so we don't have to go the whole field," he said. 
However, the Mob are going to have to cut down on turnovers to score against the staunch Griffin defense. O'Neill implemented a Wing-T offense for this season. but the complex fakes and misdi­rection of the scheme have result­ed in as many fumbles and losses as big gains. 
"We've tried to cut down on turnovers, but they still seem to happen to us," Milligan said. "We get something going, but then we shoot ourselves in the foot." 
On the Stanford side of the ball, captain Vm Monaco has been try­ing to fix the Griffins' offensive struggles since early in the sea­son. 
"We've been running out of the wishbone and getting stuffed and passing out of the spread and not having success there either," Monaco said. 
This week the team is planning some major overhauls in an attempt to move the football. 
"We're going to put in some new formations to keep the defense on its toes," Monaco said. 
Contact Brad Wallace and Chris Khorey at bwallac2@nd.edu and ckhorey@nd.edu 
Como esto Ia gomo de onoche?? 

Don't be sad your birthday is over, we hope you had ablast. 
Besos, Silvia, Virginia, y Marcela 


page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, October 14, 2004 


YOUR CATERING SOLUTIONlll 
BOX LUNCHES, PLATTERS, PARTIES! 
DELIVERY ORDERS will include a delivery charge per item. 

Line 
continued from page 24 
dependent on their new posi­tion. 
That's something that doesn't just happen overnight. Morton feels the line is going down the right path in becoming more familiar with their new posi­tions. 
"The reasons why, and stuff like that. the offensive line has talked about, and it's going to stay with the offensive line," he said. "Maybe when it's all said and done, we'll let all you guys know, but for now we'll keep it to ourselves. We know there are places we need to go and things we need to do, and we are taking the steps to get there." 
Offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick complimented the line for its pass blocking against Purdue, despite giving up seven sacks. Diedrick justified his statement by saying when the defense knows an offense must throw the ball on every down. it can pin back its ears and just come after the quar­terback. 
In that game, the Irish 

rushed for just 76 yards on 36 
attempts. 
Last week against Stanford, 

the line kept plugging away as 
the Irish gained 149 yards on 
the ground, albeit taking 51 
attempts. 
So now, it comes down to 

putting it all together. 
"From the first week of the 

season, we've been right there, 
it's just a matter of getting it 
done, and that's one thing 
we're always striving for," 
Morton said. "One of these 
weeks we are going to get it 
right. and it will be a real fun 
thing to watch." 
With only five games left in 

the regular season. there's not 
a Jot of time to put it all togeth­
er, but Denbrock feels this 
team hasn't leveled off yet and 
is still striving to reach its 
peak. 
"I look forward to us contin­uing to make progress, and I think the most encouraging thing is at this point of the sea­son a lot of teams can kind of level out and finish out the string, play hard but not really improve," Denbrock said. "But what I've seen from our play­ers right now. they're interest­ed in still improving as a foot­ball team, and with that in mind, we have a chance to be prett.~ good before it's all done. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
• 
Tonight! DJ & Spe<:;ials ALLDAY 272-1766 2046 South Bend Ave. 


Observer 

Guard Bob Morton walks upfield during Notre Dame's victory over Stanford. Morton switched to guard from center this year. 
FREEBIES (SUBS & CLUBS Ot.ILYI Onion. lettuce, alfalfa sprouts, tomato, mayo, sliced cucumber, Dijon mustard, oil & vinegar. and oregano. 
I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK n SOUTH BEND 54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 57 4.277.8500 "VOUR MOM WANTS VOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOJIN'S!" @ 

Michigan 
continued from page 24 
the Wolverines started the final 
period hungry. defense and an offense forced the Irish defense to stay close. lim­iting runs into Michigan territo­ry by defenders Hyan Miller, Jack Stewart and Goldthwaite. 
However, Norman would put a cushioning goal past the 
keeper at 85 minutes, 53 sec­onds, threading through the Michigan defense on a cross by Boughen. 
The game extended Sawyer's shutout streak to 555 minutes. "I've had to make maybe one save a game, two saves max, 
Aggressive opportunistic 
"J thought our both offensively and defensively.
performance was a 
"I thought our
little bit back and performance was forth." a little bit back­and-forth." Sawyer said. "I
Chris Sawyer 
know we can playIrish goalkeeper better than that. 
and that's how you know your [team is] doing well -you're not allowing many shots," he said. 
The team will hit the road over fall break with three cru­cial Big East conference games. Tonight's ganw. while out of conferencP, was a quality oppo­nent who chal­lenged tlw Irish 
Soccer sometimes 
is all about weath­ering the storm and taking advantage of opportunities when you get them." 
The Irish have been doing so all season. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


Thursday, October 14, 2004 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
THE HIGHLY PRODUCTIVE BUT USELESS GUY 
HERE'S A COPY OF MY WHITE PAPER. 
PEANUTS 
MUSICIANS PLA'( A LOT OF LOVE SON65, BUT TI-IE'f' DON'T REALLY HEAR TI-IEM.DO TI-IE'f'? 
ITS A STATISTICAL ANALYSIS OF THE CORRELATION BE~EEN DISK STORAGE AND EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I DON'T KNOW HOW TO DO STATISTICS BUT IT DOESN'T MATTER BECAUSE I DIDN'T HAVE DATA. 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
ACTUALLV, THEV DON'T HEAR ANVTI-IIN6 ! 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
~~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HANEN 
j
I I r 
tROTTAH 
I 

WHAT THE: NE=IGH­BOR.5 L-IKW TO
I J I 
00 ON LAUNDRY
www.juni>le.oom 
DAY.
I QUALEP t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I ( ) ) I
.__......._....,.........,_~~~~~,..!su~g~g;:es:ted by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 
"(I I I J'( I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: LISLE NEEDY VOYAGE FEMALE Answer: The carpenters worked well together because. they were-ON THE SAME "LEVEL" 



CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 39 "Is that ?" DOWN 
1 Tumbler's need 40 Investigator's 1 Teammate of question Mantle
4 Palme of Sweden 2 Observe Yom
41 Team in 1969 Kippur
8 Airport parking headlines 3 Brunch time, for
area 45 Ginsberg 13 Got down classic some 4 Bone: Prefix
14 Major exporter 46 Pizazz of coconut oil 5 Retreat 
47 University in 16 Crackers Quebec City 6 Bygone science magazine
17 Silver on the 
51 Deli wares silver screen 7 Nickname for 
55 See 18-Across San Francisco

18 With 20-and 55-Across, 60 Western tourist 8 Beginning 
description of attraction 
9 Do a fraternity50-Across 61 Menu phrase prank, maybe 
20 See 18-Across 
62 Knocked down 10 Much more than 22 Rig a snicker
63 Give access 23 Bean products? to 11 For_ (on this occasion)
24 Bite lightly into 64 Jiffy 12 Bill_, the
28 Wife of Osiris 65 Defeatist's 
Science Guy 32 Place for a miss words 
15 "When I was 36 Hide-hair link 66 Wisconsin " natives
38 News for the 19 Lamb's dam 37 "Really, now!" 52 It helps your 56 Colorless Wall St. Journal 67 Put to the test dough grow -liqueur
21 Sweeper's 
42 Draws 

target? 53 One on a 57 Canzone 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 43 Vacation spots conger line? melody
-:T':T':-T"::-1 25 "_to please" 44 Kind of paper 58 Stoltz of "Pulp 
-::+:-:+:-+c:-1 26 Insect stage 54 Keach who Fiction"played Mike-::+:-:+:-+c:-1 27 Completely 48 _ Triomphe Hammer on 59 Retired fliers 
t-:::-lo-ir:-t~-~::;t-:;;+;::-t.r.+:-:+.::r.:-r.:-~ 29 Embroiders a 
49 Letters on a TV 60 When many
bit brandy bottle 
55 One in a banks have30 Suffix with book 
50 Popular shaver mare's nest? extra hrs. ..;,.,II!IP~+-::+.:::.f!l!l..r-:+.=+:::-~ 31 Place for shoats 
llllllt-;::t--:-t:::-t.•r--~rtrl-:':-1 32 Suds For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a ~~::+.::i"'!!!'P!~t:::-r.:-t~~ 33 Lingo credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday -.~~~m~~:U.Ellil•• 34.. own" crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
I! (song from Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000"Les Miz") past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
35 December air 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young .;.;;.a..;;;.L..;;..L..;...L:.:J 36 Extreme solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 
-:':+:::+::+.:+:=-! 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIDS DAY: Nancy Kerrigan, Kelly Preston, Jerry Rice, Chris Carter 
Happy Birthday: Don't let anyone hold you back. The most precious commodity you have is your ability to be unique, creative and a hard worker, so don't second-guess yourself. Actions will truly speak louder than words this year. Your numbers are I, 3, 4, 16, 23, 43 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): The pressure is on and any favors you owe will be called. Perform at top level and show everyone what you are worth. This is when you do your best work, so don't worry. *** TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): It's time to take flight where your professional goals are concerned. Break old habits and you will find your niche. Stop trying to be something you're not. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You will have the competitive edge today, able to make changes that will have you looking and feeling your best. Change will be empowering. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't make purchases you really don't need today. Problems at home will escalate if you've been moody. Don't nag or criticize. ** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Take a look around and you will realize there is 
nothing you can't accomplish if you put your mind to it. You will get the 
support you need to follow your dreams. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Money matters can be dealt with today by looking back, making changes and preparing to alter your career goals. Don't settle for less when you are capable of more. *** LIDRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your emotions will be soaring out of control today if you aren't on top of the little aggravations that surround you. Rethink your plans and question your motives. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Do as much work from home as possible today. The less you have to deal with colleagues, institutions and superiors, the better. Your creative ideas will flourish if you are left alone. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Run your ideas by everyone and anyone who will listen. You are bound to find someone who is willing to back you or go into partnership with you. Love is likely to develop. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Something or someone is not in alignment with you and your plans. Observe but don't be too quick to share your ideas. Protect your interests. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You are in the right frame of mind to take control and get ahead. You will discover information that will help you get what you want. Romance is apparent. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Creative financial maneuvers will pay off. You can seal deals and make profits. Changes to your residence will be to your advantage. *** 
Birthday Baby: You have the ability to get others to do things for you. You are charming, eloquent and hard to say no to. You can always find a solution to any problem you face. You have a creative mind. 
Check out Eugenia's Web .files at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, October 14, 2004 
page 24 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Biting back. 
Irish avenge last season's Sweet 16 loss, shut out rival Wolverines 3-0 
By KATE GALES Sports Wri tcr 
All victories are sweet. 
But Wednesday night at Alumni Field, revenge made a 3-0 walloping of the No. 22 Wolverines that much better for the Irish. 
"We talked about it before­hand and everyone came to a consensus that we wouldn't be thinking about last year coming into this game." co-captain and All-American goalkeeper Chris Sawyer said. "But as a return­ing player. it's a little hard not to [remember]. I think every­one had a little bit personal of a vendetta out there, so it was just awesome to come out here and completely dominate them." 
Despite a few scares by the Wolverine ol'fense, the win could have important bearings on the postseason. 
"It wasn't our best perform­ance. but we got the result," mid!ieldcr Greg Dalby said. "It was a really big regional game for the NCAA Tournament -to get a big win over Michigan." 
Last year, the Wolverines tied the Irish 1-1 in the Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tournament and advanced after a penalty kick shootout. 
This year, Luke Boughen, Justin McGeeney and Nate Norman contributed a goal apiece to keep the No. 7 Irish rolling on a six-game shutout victory streak. The team improved to 10-2-1 on the sea­son. 
"It was really nice to see peo­ple like Luke Boughen step up, getting crucial goals for us," Sawyer said. "I thought it was a great overall battle for the team because they were really coming at us all game." 
McGeeney notched his fifth goal of the season early in the contest. going two-on-one with a Michigan player and the goal­keeper off an Ian Etherington feed. 
It didn't take long for the Irish to light up the score­boards again, as a Kevin Goldthwaite free kick deep in Wolverine territory was settled by Joe Lapira and put home by Boughcn. 
"Our offense being productive has definitely taken a lot of pressure off the defense," Sawyer said. "But the guys in front of me, my four backs, have just been absolutely out­standing." 
After being dominated for much of the first half, however, 
see MICHIGAN/page 22 



,_ 
CLAIRE KELLEY/The Observer 

Guard Dan Stevenson makes a block In Notre Dame's 23-15 win over Stanford Saturday .. 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
On the surface, it looked like the offensive line was going to be a sure-fire strength for the 2004 Irish. 
Four returning starters, with 2002 Connecticut Gatorade Player of the Year John Sullivan being the only new starter, appeared to have left their struggles in the baptism by fire season of 2003. 
It's not that easy. 
Three of those four returning starters are playing a different position in 2004, which is a potential reason for the line's inconsistency. 
"Any time you're not as con­sistent as you want to be, you're searching for any answer and every answer that's out there," Irish offensive line coach Mike Denbrock said. "We're going to continue to dig and work and find the answers that we need to be more pro­ductive as an offensive group." 
Shifting three players around on the line -Ryan Harris from right to left tackle, Bob Morton from center to left guard and Mark LeVoir from left guard to right tackle -obviously forces the players to learn new tech­niques and responsibilities 
see LINE/page 22 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish top ISU in 5 gatnes 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
True, Notre Dame defeated 
Illinois State (12-5) on 
Wednesday. 
But ask junior captain Mr.g 
llenican if the team is satisfied 
with the season. and she'll 
describe an anl-;y Irish team. 
"We can be gn~at," llenican 
said. "It's so fun to watch my 
teammates play and see what 
they can do and how good they 
are. I think we'rp yet to play to 
our potential." 
The team showed glimpses 
of its potnntial as it beswd 
Illinois State in five games 30­
25. 34-32, 25-30, 23-30, 15-10. 
The Irish continue to exwl 
statistically. with Lauren 
Kelbley chipping in an impres­
sive team-high 20 kills, averag­
ing .283 on hitting and collect­
ing four aces. Freshman 
Ashley Tarutis matched her 
season-high record for assisl'i 
with 51, while leading the 
team in digs with 17. 
Junior Lauren Brewster, sen­ior Emily Loomis and fresh­man Adrianna Stasiuk also contributed to the Irish defen­sive efl'ort with 11 blocks each. 
In nearly every game, the Irish held the Hedbirds to under .200 hitting and upped their opponents' errors to at least six every game. While this game didn't showcase the Irish in their prime, Henican said the Irish fulfilled their expecta­tions for the match up. 
"We knew Illinois State was a good team. a tough one." llenican said. "We didn't exe­cute as we had hoped, but we came out with a win so we're happy with that." 
In the first game, Notre Dame kept Illinois State at arms length. The Irish defend­ed every inch of the court. swooping in for digs and diving to save the ball and preserve their lead. 
Kelbley and Stasiuk, who was recently named the Big East Hookie of the Week. spearheaded the Irish ofl'ensive effort with six kills eaeh. Stasiuk recorded .556 and Kelbley posted a .364 in hit­ting. Notre Dame maintained a five-point lead in the last two serves of the game. beating Illinois State 30-25. 
The second game featured 25 ties and 11 lead changes in the most fiercely contested game of the match. Both teams 
see REDBIRDS/page 21 


tn 
NFL NFL
NLCS
SMC SOCCER ALCS ALCS 
LLI 
Broncos quarterbackRaiders wide receiver
Red Sox ace pitcher Jake Plummer searches

t: 
(.) Kalamazoo 1 St. Louis 10New York 3 
meets with Oakland owner AI Davis to dis-Curt Schilling is ques­

z Saint Mary's 0 Boston 1 Houston 7 
for a new way to honortionable for Game 5 of

Centerfielder Jim
A penalty kick with 32 New York pitcher Jon 
::5 
former player Pat
the ALCS because of an 
cuss a possible trade. Tillman. 

Edmonds knocks in
= 
seconds left downs the Lieber yields one run in injured right ankle. 
seven innings as the 

three runs as the
Belles on the road. 
c:c 
Yankees take a 2-0 lead Cardinals win Game 1. 

in theALCS. 

= a.. !; 
page 14

page 18 
page 14page 20 page 18 page 16

tn 









