---------------------~--~~~~~----------~~--------------~~~------------------~~------------------------­

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Owners put Turtle Creek up for sale 
Apartments billed at $12.25 million 
By KATE ANTONACCI News Writer 
Owners of Turtle Creek Apartments, the popular stu­dent off-campus housing area east of Notre Dame, have decid­ed to sell the complex, property manager Tammy Michelbrink said Monday. 
According to Michelbrink, Turtle Creek's owners are ask­ing $12.25 million for the prop­erty and have no specific rea­son for selling. The 192-unit housing complex is listed for sale by Los Angeles-based real estate firm CB Richard Ellis. 
Turtle Creek Apartments, 
which includes a swimming pool, sand volleyball cout, pic­nic areas, grills, clubhouse and a 24-hour laundry center, hous­es primarily Notre Dame stu­dents. The average size per unit is 865 square feet. 
Michelbrink said Turtle Creek would continue to operate nor­mally throughout the sale. 
"We have already begun the application and lease signing process for 2005-06," she said. "No matter who owns Turtle Creek it will always remain <1ne of the number one choices for students wanting to Jive off­campus." 
see TURTLE/page 4 
DUSTIN MANELLAIThe Observer 

The Turtle Creek Apartment complex, a longtime student favorite for off-campus housing, is now on the market. 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21,2004 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
I CA.MP.AlG:t~ 2004 I 


Faculty looks for truth 
'Election Perspectives' panel discusses foreign affairs 

JOANNA PAXTON/)he Observer Panelists Curtis Kamman, left, Dan Lindley, ·David Rucclo, Theresa Hansen and Gerry Powers debate American foreign policy at an "Election Perspectives" panel event Monday. 
By JEANNINE PRIVAT News Writer 
The greatest casualties of the 2004 p-residential cam­paign are the facts, a group of professor-panelists who dis­cussed foreign policy topics said Monday night at Notre Dame. 
The four professors com­menting at the panel were political science professors Dan Lindley and Curtis Kamman, economics profes­sor David Ruccio and peace studies professor Gerry Powers. 
The four professors served on the "Election Perspectives on Foreign Affairs" faculty 
Safe Bus plan met with concerns 
Funding, locations, NDSP involvement still up in the air 
By MARY KATE MALONE and 
AMANDA MICHAELS 
News Writers 
Members of the Council of Representatives voiced their con­stituencies' concerns about the proposed Notre Dame SafeBus at Monday's meeting. 
The SafeBus, part of student body president Adam Istvan's campaign platform, would serve as an alternative mode of trans­portation for students going to parties at off-campus residences or bars. 
Currently no concrete plans for how to implement the measure exist, as Istvan is still gauging student and administration feed­back. 
Though representatives report­ed positive responses to the idea, they brought up questions of funding, pick-up and drop-off locations and Notre Dame 
see BUS/page 4 


JOANNA PAXTON!The Observer Student body president Adam Istvan discusses SafeBus plans with representatives at Monday's meeting. 
panel in the first of many election season events spon­sored by the Center for Social Concerns and others. 
While all four professors highlighted the issue of the war in Iraq, each focused on a different area concerning the war. 
According to Lindley, one of the biggest security threats facing the United States is the problem of "loose nukes" in the former Soviet Union. 
"Facilities are largely unguarded," Lindley said. 
Prior to Sept. 11 and after, some analysts drew attention to the problem as a major security threat, but the cur­rent Bush administration has instead focused on the war in Iraq, according to Lindley. 
"Between a glass that's empty, cracked and broken, and a glass that's a quarter full, I'll choose the latter," he said. 
Ruccio focused on issues concerning economics, includ­ing international trade pacts and negotiations, immigration and energy concerns for America. 
"How do we manage our relations with oil-producing nations?" Ruccio said. 
Some oil-producing nations are those who harbor many terrorists and commit viola­tions of human rights that the United States must keep in 
see PANEL/page 4 


Legal downloading service not an option 
ND doesn't pursue music program 
By DAN TOLER News Writer 
To satisfy students' interest in music downloading, while avoiding clashes over illegal filesharing, many colleges ­including nearby Purdue University -are considering formal campus-wide pro­grams that would allow stu­dents to purchase songs legally. However, the University currently. has no plans to open a similar serv­ice, said Katie Christman, help desk manager at the Office of Information Technologies. 
Last year, the Office of Residence Life and Housing sent emails to specific stu­dents instructing them to remove downloaded music from their computers or face possible disciplinary action. This move came as a result of the lawsuit filed by the Recording Industry Association of America against students who were illegally downloading music at a variety of universities, including Notre Dame. 

"The OIT doesn't condone the use ·Of file-sharing pro­grams such as Kazaa," Chrisman said, but added that the University does not monitor student computers for file-sharing programs. Notre Dame will become involved only if contacted by the University's General Counsel, generally in the event of a lawsuit. 
Despite these actions, illegal file sharing and downloading at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's is still widespread. 
But at West Lafayette, stu­dents will soon be able to get their music legally. Purdue 
see MUSIC/page 4 
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Lacking the Irish luck 
Being a prestigious university. it is only natural that Notre Dame would provide us with a world renowned, state-of-the­art traffic force. Students should salute the Notre Dame Security/Police for their traffic patrol skills. Surrounded by the 
Jen Rowllng
bustling metropolis 
of South Bend, 
NDSP officers arc News Wire 
constantly Editor 
patrolling our cam­
pus for unautho­
rized vehicles. Of course, the most suspi­
cious and dangerous automobiles are 
those owned and operated by the Notre 
Dame students, themselves. This deter­
mined. defensive squad, known as the 
NDSP, has therefore made it virtually 
impossible for students to get their cars 
on campus. 
Except for the lucky few who have 
green cards for swiping, all those wanting 
to gain access to campus roads must 
come face to face with th·e indomitable 
NDSP. These encounters are a certainty if 
one wants to avoid the excruciatingly, 
long walk from D6 or D2000. Depending 
on the day and the officer, some students 
may be lucky enough to have their vehi­
cle welcomed on campus. 
I applaud anyone who can devise an 
ingenious scheme to allow NDSP to per­
mit them on the streets of Notre Dame 
proper. Forget the practical reasons: car­
rying groceries, picking up a friend, being 
late for dass, walking alone in the dark or 
simply leaving something behind. Oh, and 
one might think that pouring rain, freez­
ing drizzle or a white-out would be an 
acceptable excuse. No Way! The NDSP 
assists in building our character by giving 
us the opportunity of trudging back to our 
donn, soaking wet or freezing cold. 
Be grateful that the Stephan Center 
parking lot is located extremely close to 
the infirmary. If you come down with 
pneumonia, need to get stitches or have 
to have a broken bone realigned, it's only 
a short stroll away. 
So what exactly docs it take to get on 
campus? Not even the "Luck of the Irish" 
will secure a spot for your car on campus! 
A classic excuse used to be, '1ust get­ting back from the airport with luggage." This worked for my entire sophomore year. Then, the technically advanced NDSP equipped its offiecrs with flash­lights. Now they simply request, "Pop open that trunk." Keep an empty piece of luggage in the trunk or backseat at all times. 
Last year, two boys wanted to pick up their friends to go to the movies. Before leaving their off-campus residence, they dL'>mantlcd their computer and placed it in the front seat of their car. Whether or not the NDSP believed their concocted story, the students were allowed access to the roads of Notre Dame. Only a Notre Dame student can fully appreciate the excitement that comes when a friend ealls to inform you, "''m on campus in front of your donn!" 
Unfortunately, Notre Dame students arc forced to continue to engage in cre­ative measures to get on campus. There is, however, one foolproof way. llave a parent in the car with you at all times. When mom or dad is sitting next to you, the NDSP welcome you on campus with a bright smile! Your parent smiles back, tells the officer to have a nice day, then turns to you and says, "Everyone is so friendly." 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes.' We do, however, recognize thar we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WOULD YOU PAY FOR A CAMPUS MUSIC DOWNLOADING SERVICE? 



Arlane Watkins  Brad Bitterly  VIctor Wong  Tatlane Hsu  Undsay McRandall  Mike Zlntsmaster  
senior Lewis  freshman Siegfried  senior off campus  freshman Cavanaugh  senior Farley  junior Alumni  
"No -don't we already pay enough at this  "I don't see why not."  "No, because ever since I was a freshman we  "No, because I always got it for free before. "  "Yeah, but it would depend on how much. "  "Matt Adams says no. Period."  




place?" never had to ­why start 
? ,
now.. 


Students get shot glasses before homecoming 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M.­Officials at Rio Grande High School aren't ·getting a buzz from the school's homecoming memento. 
Nearly 100 shot glasses etched with "Dreams Will Come True 2004" were handed out in advance of the celebration last week• -until the principal got word of it. 
"It's not an appropriate message to send out," Principal AI Sanchez said Thursday after putting a stop to the giveaway. "We'll never do that again." 

School activities director James Chavez took the blame -saying the cheap­est glass was a $1.32 shot glass. He said he thought they could be used to hold candles or toothpicks, not alcohol. 
"We emphasized this is not for drinking," Chavez said. 
Men allegedly bomb McDonald's over shake 
LAKELAND, Fla. -Two brothers serving in the mil­itary and a third man exploded a small bomb inside a McDonald's because they were angry over a bad milkshake, offi­
cials said. No one was hurt 
and damage to the restau­
rant was minor. 
Pedro Garza, 19; Joshua Hackey, 19; and Nathaniel Hackey, 21; were arrested Saturday on felony charges of making and discharging a destructive device. The older Hackey is in the Army and his brother is in the Coast Guard, the Polk County Sheriff's Office said. 
"One of the guys said they got a bad milkshake, and they played a prank on them," sheriff's Maj. Sammy Taylor said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 



HIGH LOW 

HIGH 83 LOW 58 

78 
57 


Atlanta 78 I 59 Boston 73 I 58 Chicago 82 I 55 Denver 53 I 33 Houston 89 I 70 Los Angeles 86 I 68 Minneapolis 73 I 54 New York 78162 Philadelphia 80 160 Phoenix 93167 Seattle 64151 St. Louis 85161 Tampa 88171 Washington 82162 

IN BRIEF 
Come out and support the Saint Mary's soccer team as it takes on Albion College today at 4 p.m. at the College soccer fields. 
Rosamond McKittrick, Oxford University history professor, will speak about "Perceptions of the Past in the Early Middle Ages: Chronology and Empire," today at 5 p.m. in the Eck Visitors' Center. 
See the film "Unknown Pleasures," in Mandarin Chinese with English subtitles today in DeBartolo 117 at 7 
p.m. The showing is part of the International Film Series and there is no admission fee. 
Attend the opening reception for "Learning from Rome: An Architect's Tour of Italy," Wednesday at 5 p.m. in the Bond Hall gallery. The exhibit features watercolor paintings of Rome by assistant professor of architecture Victor Deupi. 
Rich Lowry, editor of National Review, and David Corn, editor of The Nation, will debate the 2004 presiden­tial election Wednesday at 7 
p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Lack Stack, CEO of SRLC Holdings Corp., will speak today about "A Stake in the Game of Business," at 7 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium. 
Notre Dame's Law Fair will take place today from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Joyce Center. Over 100 law schools will be in attendance. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 


HIGH 68 LOW 47 


Tuesday, September 21, 2004 The Observer + NEWS page 3 



Fremantle, Australia 
Information Meeting 
VVednesday, Sept.22,2004 
5:30-7:30 PM Room 155 DeBartolo 

IStudents in the College of AL & BA only I 
BoARD OF GoVERNANCE 
Stnaller enrolltnent leads to shortfalls 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 
Due to decreased enrollment at Saint Mary's, the Board of Governance will face a budget cut of roughly $9,000, students said at Monday's board meeting. Students spent the meeting reviewing and approving the budget. 
"This is the primary budget that we need to approve, and I will have Student Diversity Board, Residence Hall Association and individual class allotments next week," treasur­er Molly Welton said. 
Student Activities Commissioner Lauren Fabina told the board that next week is Saint Mary's Pride Week, and Pride Week T-shirts will be sold for $6 all week in front of Haggar Hall. 
Ticket vouchers for the Emerson Drive concert will also be available Sept. 26-27 and can be redeemed Sept. 29 to Oct. 1 for the actual concert ticket. Tickets will be $5 for stu­dents and $10 for public. 
"This should be a really big event with a huge turnout," Fabina said. 
Admissions commissioner Katie Press said this year the College will have 19 tour guides with 10 students serving as backups. She also said the admissions office has an unusu­ally high amount of freshmen interested in hosting prospective students. 
"We have not had too many prospective students yet, but I imagine that within the next two to three weeks the numbers will really increase," Press said. 
Mission commissioner Mary Beth Swyart told the board the College is asking students to help keep energy costs low by turning off lights when not in use or taking shorter showers. 
Junior class president Danielle Lerner reported the junior class will be selling pop and pizza after this week's Notre Dame football game. 
"Since the game will be so late, the dining hall will be closed and this will be a great way for everyone to enjoy some food afterwards," Lerner said. 
Freshmen elections will be held today, elections commis­sioner Anna Bauer said. If a run-off is necessary, it will be held Thursday. A total of seven tickets are running, Bauer said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO1@saintmarys.edu 

SMC professors visit Sri Lanka 
abandoned by their husbands, Susan Vance. The group was By MEGAN O'NEIL or their husbands have been stopped twice at military check News Writer killed," religious studies pro­points where soldiers searched 
fessor Anita HoucR said. through all of their belongings. 
Five Saint Mary's professors Single women, generally the The experience Vance said, presented a slide show and most at risk in gave her a sense of discussion Monday on a group Sri Lanka, have what life is like in summer research trip they been forced to politically unstable took to the war-torn nation of re-examine and "The problem with countries. Sri Lanka, just off the southern re-invent their landmines is that "It certainly coast of India. roles in a post­changed my world
they are cheap. " 
The professors, from various war society. The view, we are so academic departments, toured biggest ques­isolated here," said and met with women leaders tion, said Houck, Susan Vance Vance said. "To go in Sri Lanka. The trip was was whether business professor to a country that 
sponsored by a grant from the women will Center for Women's maintain the Intercultural Leadership. elevated status they were 
"What we were trying to do given as soldiers during the was visit different projects to conflict. see how women were trying to "The LTTE did retain that change society," CWIL fellow level of autonomy," said and participant Meredith Houck. "Just' for women to Sarkees said. ride a one-speed bike was a 
Sri Lanka has been plagued huge thing and not really by ethnic accepted in the conflict since Muslim communi­1972. "What we were trying ty." 
T h e to do was visit The participants extremist visited several edu­
different projects ... " 

group, the cational and voca­Liberation tional centers for Tigers of Meredith Sarkees women. Residents Tamil Eelam, CWIL fellow worked together to was a major weave mats to sup-player. On port themselves. Dec. 24, 2001 LTTE signed a The trip also included a visit cease-fire which ended armed to an orphanage for children conflict. The repercussions of whose parents were killed in the war however, continue in the conflict. daily life, particularly for While they never heard gun­women. fire, the tension of violence 
"The problem is with con­was constantly in the back­flict, a lot of women have been ground said business professor 
has  been in  war  
for 20 years  was  
really eye-opening."  

One of the presentation pic­tures showed a large billboard warning motorists to avoid land mines and stay on the highway. 
"The pro.blem with land­mines is that they are cheap," Vance said. "There are still a lot of land mines in Sri Lanka." 
The participants are current­ly working on a report tltat will be presented to CWIL. They also anticipate utilizing the information gathered dur­ing the trip in the classroom. 
"I certainly anticipate using a lot of this in my teaching," art professor Marsha Rickard . said. "I think all of us in some capacity will find this knowl­edge filtering out into the com­munity." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
Application Deadline: November 15, 2004 for Fall 2005 and Spring 2006 Apply On-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 
Tuesd~y, September 21, 2004 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
Turtle 
continued from page 1 

Though multiple parties have expressed interest, Michelbrink said Notre Dame has not shown any desire to purchase Turtle Creek. 
To date, the sale transforming our two-bedroom town homes into four-bedroom town homes, we did in fact combine some of our units," Michelbrink said. "We simply did some minor carpentry work in the living rooms downstairs and made a walkway to the town home next door." 

Senior Matt 
McConnell said 

of Turtle Creek has "No matter who he was directly 
remained quiet. affected by those 
owns Turtle Creek
"I'm not sure changes. that anyone knows it will always 'They had two about it yet," of us move into a
remain one ofthe 
Michelbrink said. vacant apart­
number one choices
"If they do, there ment next door has been no reac­for students and arranged the tion." wanting to live next rent pay­
Students living at ment so we are
off-campus. " 
the apartments pretty much pay­said they were gen­ing the same erally aware that Tammy Mlchelbrlnk amount. We· Turtle Creek was property manager intended to live 
up for sale. 

"I did hear TC was for sale, but I didn't know for how much or what the rea­sons behind it were," said sen­ior Liz Hartmann, a resident of the complex. 
However, some changes have been made at Turtle Creek to prepare for the potential sale. 
"In preparation for possibly 
Bus 
continued from page 1 
Security/Police involvement. 

Istvan asked members to find 
out if the student body would be 
willing to pay for a trip on the 
bus, or if he should investigate 
other means of funding, such as 
using Student Activities fees. 

I I all Presidents Council co-chair 
Liz Cain said making the SafeBus 
free of charge would be the best 
option. 

"The people I talked to were not willing to pay to ride the bus, especially when cab is only $2 and takes you right where you want to go," she said. 
Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni suggested exploring other alternatives as well and made reference to Gonzaga University's system of crediting cab rides to the university, provid­ed the student gives the driver their ID number. 
Bus routes were also a top con­cern, as representatives debated the convenience and location of different on and off-campus stops. 
Many representatives said more than one stop at Notre Dame would be preferable, and that a route schedule should be highly publicized and accessible. 
Cain said utilizing a fleet of small vans rather than one large bus would ensure there would be enough transportation at the 
in one unit, and 

we did for about three weeks," he said. "They basically just put a door in between the two townhouses. They didn't say, but we kind of just figured it was because of the sale." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
busiest points in the evening 
when South Bend bars let out. 
Senior class president Darrell Scott said he worried about resistance from community mem­bers who live near student resi­dences. 
"Neighbors might have a prob­lem with a bus coming and drop­ping off a load of drunken stu­dents," he said. "We already have a poor town/gown relationship, and this might make their percep­tion about partying a reality." 
According to COR members, the majority of students questioned expressed great concern about NDSP taking advantage of the sit­uation and citing intoxicated, underage students getting off the bus. 
"Most are worried about NDSP hanging out at Main Circle and picking people off as they come back," Student Union Board man­ager Jimmy Flaherty said. 
Istvan said he plans to speak with NDSP administrators, but added that he hoped they would be happy with the knowledge that students were coming back to Notre Dame safely. 
Along with the SafeBus initia­tive, Istvan plans to address other key elements on his agenda in his State of the Union speech on Wednesday at 6 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu and Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

Panel 
continued from page 1 
mind, as oil imports have steadily increased and reliance on domestic energy sourc.es has decreased during the last 30 years. 
"Right now, there is consen­sus on opening up free trade," said Ruccio. 
Powers spoke solely on the war in Iraq. He called the Bush administration's decision to invade Iraq "a radical departure" from past interna­tional law consensus but noted similarities between Bush and Kerry's views on Iraq and foreign policy. 
"Both platforms are pushing 

Music 
continued from page 1 
plans to implement a new service called Ctrax, part of. the Cdigix Internet media company, which will allow stu­dents to purchase songs for 89 cents each. 
"We think this is a great way for students to access the entertainment resources avail­able on the Internet, but in a legal manner that reduces our demand for Internet resources, said Ernest Poland, director of University Residences at Purdue. 
The Ctrax system will have over one million tracks avail­

~1 Sports ~ar it1 South ~et1d 20-f-6 South ~et1d Ave -Across frot\t Martit1s Plaza 272-1766 NP Football Headquarters Ot11it1e sports it1fo 
..G-reat Food, G-reat Futf Mot1: Mot1day Night Football 6-Specials startit1g at $1.0 Tues: College Night -PJ 6-Specials Wed: TRIVIA Night -~rit1g your teatMs -Prizes Thurs: PJ -First Thursday every t\tOt1th: Jazzy G-rass Fri: live Et1tertalt1t\tet1t Sat: NP gat\tes 
tive for students  students and was  
who are averse to taking risks and would like an affordable  "/think it's a great alternative for students who are  put on probation. ... I was tracked by Sony, not Purdue."  
alternative to illegal down­loading," said  averse to taking risks."  Though student Senate has been in contact with  
Purdue senior  Residence  Life  
Vishal Bhandari.  Vlshal Bhandari  about  possibly  
Teresa Healy, a senior at Saint Mary's who  senior Purdue  bringing Napster on campus, nei­ther the Senate's  
spent her fresh- Residence  Life  




Chicago revatnping fire rules 
City announces changes nearly ayear after workers die in blaze 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO The city announced revamped rules for battling fires in tall buildings Monday, nearly a year after six Cook County workers died in a blaze that raised serious ques­tions about Chicago Fire Department practices. 
The changes, which include sending more firefighters to bat­tle blazes and assigning teams dedicated solely to search-and­rescue duties, were announced . in response to a July report by a county-appointed commission that blasted firefighters. 
'The report cited "actions or inactions" that "contributed to the loss of life and serious injuries" in the Oct. 17 fire at a muscular foreign policy. The nationalist politics and com­differences are the tactics, but pletely disregarded the inter­strategies are not national com­all that different," munity. Powers said. "Both platforms "I'm afraid "Clearly, the Bush we're back in a
are pushing a
Administration large quag­
muscular foreign 
does not have a mire," Kamman stellar record." policty. The said of the war Kamman, the in Iraq. 
differences are 
last speaker, criti­Having started
the tactics ... " 
·cized the Bush the war in Iraq, administration's the panelists foreign policy. Gerry Powers agreed that the 
He cited the United States'
professor
administration's top foreign poli­actions in the cy in the next Kyoto Protocol, treaties with few years would be to main­Russia and other foreign tain geo-political stability in affairs issues prior to Sept. 11 the world. to support the claim that the Bush administration generally Contact Jeannine Privat at preferred unilateral and jprivat@nd.edu 
able from most mainstream about my downloading of it," artists. Healy said. "I was in violation "I think it's a great alterna­of their copyright rules for 
man year at Purdue, said her . Affairs Chair nor ResLife were computer was red-flagged by available for comment. Sony at the time because of illegal downloading. Contact Dan Toler at 
"They contacted Purdue dtoler@nd.edu 
the Cook County Administration ously fight the ftre and conduct Building in downtown Chicago. a top-to-bottom stairway 
"Ladies and gentlemen, I search. stand here today telling you that Ninety minutes elapsed we have gone back to school on between the time firefighters high-rise incident command and arrived on the scene and the six firefighting," Fire Commissioner bodies were found. The gap has Cortez Trotter said. been the focus of lawsuits by the 
Trotter said the department victims' families. will assign personnel to rapid Trotter, who took over the ascent teams that do only department about five months search and•rescue. The com­ago, also said 60 percent more mission report criticized fire­personnel will initially respond fighters for failing to simultane-to high-rise ftres. 
-Accepting Reservations for Post-Game Dining -Light menu featuring gourmet soups, salads, &sandwiches -Featuring gourmet pizzas -Music is live on Fridays &Saturdays, starting at 9pm, Michigan time -Wine, microbrews, spe­cialty drinks & martinis, along with traditional cof­fee house drink menu items -Art Gallery 
Bring in this coupon and receive a free latte! 





ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Floods kill at least 241 in Haiti 
GONAIVES, Haiti -Rescuers pulled bod­ies from receding floodwaters Monday that had raged through parts of Haiti's third­largest city, swept people from their homes and forced survivors to spend the night in trees, atop cars and on rooftops. The rapid­ly rising death toll from Tropical Storm Jeanne's weekend devastation stood at 241. 
"We expect to find dozens more bodies, especially in Gonaives," Dieufort Deslorges, a spokesman for Haiti's civil protection agency, told The Associated Press. 
Jeanne's torrential rains claimed victims from Haiti's southern peninsula to the north-coast town of Port-de-Paix, which had the second-highest death toll -40, he said. More than 130 were killed in Gonaives. 
U.N. fighting war against poverty 
UNITED NATIONS -The leaders of France and Brazil on Monday warned that poverty leads to violence and urged the international community to find ways to narrow the gap between rich and poor, casting a spotlight on the more than 1 bil­lion people living on less than $1 per day. 
President Bush skipped two high-level meetings, held on the eve of the annual 
U.N. General Assembly gathering, that focused on the impact of globalization and on ways to finance the war against poverty. One of the forums drew more than 50 world leaders. 
Bush's speech to the General Assembly on Tuesday also will emphasize international humanitarian concerns as the world body begins two weeks of meetings amid an upsurge of violence in Iraq and a massive humanitarian crisis in western Sudan. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Kerry said Bush misused power 
NEW YORK -Staking out new ground on Iraq, Sen. John Kerry said Monday he would not have overthrown Saddam Hussein had he been in the White House, and he accused President Bush of "stubborn incompetence," dishonesty and colossal failures of judg­ment. Bush said Kerry was flip-flopping. 
Less than two years after voting to give Bush authority to invade Iraq, the Democratic candidate said the president had misused that power by rushing to war without the backing of allies, a post-war plan or proper equipment for U.S. troops. "None of which I would have done," Kerry said. 
"Saddam Hussein was a brutal dictator who deserves his own special place in hell," he added. "But that was not, in itself, a rea­son to go to war. The satisfaction we take in his downfall does not hide this fact: We have traded a dictator for a chaos that has left America less secure." 
Security guard killed at Capitol 
SPRINGFIELD, Ill.-An unarmed security 
guard was shot to death inside the state 
Capitol on Monday by a gunman who then 
fled in a car, authorities said. 
The officer was killed with one gunshot to 
the chest, said Col. Larry Schmidt, chief 
deputy director of the Secretary of State 
Police. Authorities did not immediately pro­
vide a motive. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Minister avoids jail in sexual battery 
FORT WAYNE -A 73-year-old Baptist minister convicted of sexual battery likely will not spend any time in prison under a sentence handed down by a judge Monday. 
The Rev. James Fincher, pastor of Faith Missionary Baptist Church, was found guilty in August by a jury of inappropri­ately touching a woman who came to his office last fall to borrow $100. He was acquitted of a criminal confinement charge. 
CBS apologizes for Bush story 
Network concedes it can't vouch for authenticity ofdocuments on Bush Guard duty 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -CBS News apologized Monday for a "mistake in judg­ment" in its story ques­tioning President Bush's National Guard service, claiming it was misled by the source of documents that several experts have dismissed as fakes. 
The network said it would appoint an inde­pendent panel to look at its reporting about the memos. The story has mushroomed into a major media scandal, threaten­ing the reputations of CBS News and chief anchor Dan Rather. 
It also became an issue in the presidential cam­paign. The White House said the affair raises questions about the con­nections between CBS's source, retired Texas National Guard officer Bill Burkett, and Democrat John Kerry's campaign. 
Rather joined CBS News President Andrew Heyward in issuing an apology Monday. 
"We made a mistake in judgment, and for that I am sorry," Rather said. "It was an error that was made, however, in good faith and in the spirit of trying to carry on a CBS News tradition of inves­tigative reporting without fear or favoritism." 
Almost immediately 
after the story aired Sept. 
8, document experts 
questioned memos pur­
portedly written by Bush's 
late squadron leader, Lt. 
Col. Jerry B. Killian, say­
ing they appeared to have 
been created on a com­
puter and not on the kind 
of typewriter in use dur­
ing the 1970s. 
CBS strongly defended 
its story. It wasn't until a 
week later after 
Killian's former secretary 
said she believed the 
memos were fake -did 
the news division admit 
they were questionable. 
Burkett admitted this 
weekend to CBS that he 


lied about obtaining the documents from another former National Guard member, the network said. CBS hasn't been able to conclusively tell how he got them, or even defi­nitely tell whether they're fakes or not. But the net­work has given up trying to defend them. 
"Based on what we now know, CBS News cannot prove that the documents are authentic, which is the only acceptable jour­nalistic standard to justify using them in the report," Heyward said. "We should not have used them." 
The Associated Press could not immediately reach Burkett for com­ment. Rather was set to interview Burkett Monday night on CBS' evening news program. 
Heyward told The Associated Press it was not clear what, if any, dis­ciplinary action would be taken against CBS News employees. Besides taint­ing the network's flagship broadcast, "60 Minutes," the report was a damag­ing blow to Rather, 7 2. Some have suggested the scandal, along with the low ratings of the "CBS Evening News," could hasten Rather's retire­ment. 

"Please know that noth­ing is more important to us than people's trust in our ability and our com­mitment to report fairly and truthfully," Rather said. 
Alex Jones, director of Harvard University's Shorenstein Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy, said it appeared to be an honest mistake by CBS, not a willful attempt to deceive. But he said the network was too slow to respond. 
"I think that their delay­ing and obvious resist­ance to acknowledge the evident realities has kept the story alive a lot longer than it needed to be and was a lot more damaging to CBS than it needed to be," he said. 
For "60 Minutes," it's the biggest ethical mess since the 1995 incident captured in the movie "The Insider," which depicted the news­magazine caving to pres­sure from CBS lawyers and not airing a whistle-blowing report from an ex-tobacco executive. 
Jones said questions will probably center on the story's producer, Mary Mapes. She's one of the network's top investiga­tors and broke the story of the Abu Ghraib prison abuse scandal photos. Her immediate boss is Josh Howard, recently named executive producer of the "60 Minutes" Wednesday edition. 
White House press sec­retary Scott McClellan said the White House appreciated CBS's expres­sion of regret but that there were still serious questions about Burkett. 
"Bill Burkett, who CBS now says is their source, in fact is not an unim­peachable source as was previously claimed," McLellan said. "Bill Burkett is a source who has been discredited and so this raises a lot of questions. There were media reports about Mr. Burkett having senior level contacts with the Kerry campaign." 
TheKerry campaign has 
said it had nothing to do 
with the story. 
Video on Web shows beheading 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD, Iraq-A video posted Monday on a Web site showed the beheading of a man identified as American civil engineer Eugene Armstrong. The militant group led by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi claimed responsibility for the slaying and 
said another hostage  - either an  
American or a Briton  - would be  
killed in 24 hours.  

The grisly decapitation was the latest killing in a particularly vio­lent month in Iraq, with more than 300 people dead in insurgent attacks and U.S. military strikes over the past seven days. Earlier Monday, gunmen in Baghdad assassinated two clerics from a powerful Sunni Muslim group that has served as a mediator to release hostages. 
The video of the beheading of the man believed to be Armstrong sur­faced soon after the expiration of a 48-hour deadline set earlier by al­Zarqawi's Tawhid and Jihad group for the beheading of the three civil engineers. The men -Armstrong, American Jack Hensley and Briton Kenneth Bigley -were abducted Thursday from their home in a wealthy Baghdad neighborhood. 
A militant whose voice resembled al-Zarqawi, who has been linked to al-Qaida, read a statement in the video saying the next hostage would be killed in 24 hours unless all Muslim women prisoners are released from U.S. military jails. 
"You, sister, rejoice. God's sol­diers are coming to get you out of your chains and restore your purity by returning you to your mother and father," he said before grab­bing the hostage, seated at his feet, and cutting his throat. 
In Washington, a U.S. off-icial, speaking on condition of anonymi­ty, said Armstrong's body had been recovered, but the official would provide no information about where or when. 

Tuesday, September 2 I, 2004 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
INDONESIA 

Ex-general takes leads in election returns 
Susilo Yudhoyono expected to defeat incumbent Megawati 
Associated Press 
JAKARTA, Indonesia -A U.S.-trained former general who led the fight against al­Qaida-linked extremists in Indonesia appeared headed for a landslide victory Tuesday in a presidential runoff heralded as a key step for democracy in the world's most populous Muslim nation. 
Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, who focused his campaign on fixing the economy and cracking down on corruption, had 60 per­cent of the votes with nearly half counted early Tuesday. Incumbent President Megawati Sukarnoputri had 40 percent. 
The General Election Commission said about 122 million votes were cast dur­ing Monday's balloting. Voter turnout was about 80 percent. 
The Washington-based National Democratic Institute, the international arm of the Democratic Party, said its "Quick Count" sur­vey gave Yudhoyono 61 per­cent and Megawati 39 per­cent. The group, which based its forecast on counts at selected voting stations, accurately predicted the results of Indonesia's parlia­mentary elections in April and the first round of the presidential election in July, in which Yudhoyono and Megawati were the two leaders. 


Yudhoyono declined to for­mally claim victory late Monday, but told reporters: "I am grateful to God, and thankful to the people of Indonesia who have given me ... that kind of support." 
Megawati, who had stabi­lized the economy but saw her popularity wane because of anger over continuing graft, did not concede, say­ing she would await the announcement of official results in early October. 
The election was held to choose Indonesia's fourth head of state since wide­spread street protests over an economic slump forced an end to the 32-year dicta­torship of former military leader Suharto in 1998. 
The polls were free of vio­lence and accusations of fraud in a further boost to an orderly succession in Indonesia that is being held up as evidence that democ­racy can prosper in the Muslim world, most of which is ruled by authoritarian regimes. 
While Yudhoyono appealed to Washington because of his hard line against terror­ists in this strategically located nation that stretches under Southeast Asia from the Pacific to the Indian Ocean, most Indonesians were concerned about the economy and corruption. 
The 55-year-old retired soldier said his priorities are building up an economy that is growing much slower than Indonesia's neighbors, attacking graft and provid­ing jobs for the country's 210 million people. 
But he also promised to crack down harder on Jemaah Islamiyah, a group with links to al-Qaida that has been blamed for three bloody terror attacks -the Sept. 9 truck bombing out­side the Australian Embassy, last year's bombing at the Marriott hotel in Jakarta and the 2002 bombings in a nightclub district on the resort island of Bali. 
As security minister under Megawati, Yudhoyono over­saw a campaign that is thought to have dispersed Jemaah Islamiyah's mem­bers, forcing them to split up into smaller groups with less coordination. 
"Yudhoyono is strong, car­ing. He is hard. He is best for Indonesia," said Marni, a 37-year-old housekeeper who like many Indonesians uses only one name. 
Megawati will remain a force. Her Indonesian Party of Struggle and Suharto's former Golkar Party emerged from April's parlia­mentary elections as the largest factions in the legis­lature, each winning about a fifth of the seats. 
Yudhoyono~ new Democratic Party won just 8 percent of the seats, so his government will have to rely on a wide coalition of secular and moderate religious par­ties. But the projected size of his victory Monday should strengthen him in dealing with parliament. 
Under Suharto, lawmakers -not voters -picked the head of state in a system the dictator abused to maintain his grip on power. Monday's vote was the first time Indonesians directly elected their leader. 
What are you doing next summer? 
Students, restaurant support charity 

.--~-~-------.·--­
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 
page 7 

Fi·rst Enron trial held in Texas 
}ones ' • 



~ ";';'.~"": 
AMEX 1,247.78 +1.8:7t NASDAQ 1,910.09 +6.01 NYSE 6,604.00 +29.39 S&PSOO 1,128.55 +5.05 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,082.49 -56.87 FTSE IOO(London) 4,591.00 +34.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CORP (INTC)  +2.39  +0.48  20.59  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.92  +0.25  27.51  
CISCO SYSTEMS (CSCO)  -2.19  -0.43  19.16  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  +2.49  +0.28  I 1.5 I  
QUALCOMM INC (QCOM)  -3.89  -1.57  38.83  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.84  +0.41  49.17  
10-YEAR NOTE  + 1.43  +0.58  41.27  
5-YEARNOTE  +2.23  +0.73  33.49  
3-MONTH BILL  +2.21  +0.36  16.68  
Commodities  
UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  + 1.67  45.59  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  + 1.10  407.60  
PORK BELUES (cents/lb.)  +3.00  99.075  
.  Exchan  Rates  
YEN  II 0.03  
EURO  0.8219  
POUND  0.5583  
CANADIAN$  1.2990  

IN BRIEF 

Delta tries to prevent bankruptcy 
ATLANTA-Delta Air Lines' pilots union agreed Monday to allow the struggling carrier to bring pilots out of retirement on a limited basis to deal with staff shortages that threaten to ground flights. 
The move came after the company agreed not to terminate the pilots' pension plan before February even if it files for bankruptcy. 
The tentative agreement must be ratified by the 7,500 active Delta pilots. The nation's third­largest airline has warned that it would have to file for bankruptcy if did not stem a wave of early pilot retirements by the end of September. 
The agreement still does not resolve Delta's larger problem: getting the pilots to agree to $1 billion in concessions. The Atlanta-based airline has also warned of the possibility of a Chapter 11 filing without the concessions. 
Delta fears that its pilots could jump ship en masse because they are worried about their pensions amid United Airlines' threat to termi­nate its employee retirement plans. Several hundred Delta pilots have retired early in recent months, and more have threatened such moves. chief executive Gerald Grinstein has said. 
The pilots union said there will be a "random selection process" for those in the post-retire­ment pool, which can be tapped only when staffmg falls below a certain level. 
Oil prices advance to new high 
WASHINGTON -Oil prices advanced to their highest level in a month Monday, sur­passing $46 a barrel, as supply constraints in the United States and Russia piqued the nerves of a market already edgy about the world's limited production capabilities and ris­ing demand. 
Cash-strapped Russian oil giant Yukos said it would halt some oil exports to China, while 
U.S. petroleum inventories are expected to decline again this week due to production, refining and shipping delays caused by Hurricane Ivan. 
Neither factor is itself a punishing blow to the global supply chain, analysts said, though each is enough to test the nerves oftraders already worried that there might not be enough excess output capacity to handle a more serious, prolonged disruption. 
Jury selection begins for criminal trial involving former engery-trading giant 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON -A judge overseeing the first criminal trial involving former Enron Corp. executives told prospective jurors Monday he didn't expect them to have "come out of some hole somewhere" and not know of the former energy­trading giant. 
Those chosen for the panel will decide if four for­mer Merrill Lynch & Co. executives and two former midlevel Enron executives participated in the sham sale of electricity-producing Nigerian barges to the bro­kerage in 1999 to prop up Enron's earnings. 
On Monday, lawyers whit­tled the 150-member pool to 50 candidates, and were expected to return Tuesday to seat 12 jurors and four alternates. 
U.S. District Judge Ewing Werlein told the prospective jurors he expected they wouldn't have "come out of some hole somewhere" and would at least would have heard of Enron or the demise of Arthur Andersen, convicted two years ago of covering up for its account­ing client. 
When asked if any of the jury pool had heard specifi­cally of the barge case, about 10 people raised their hands. Another two said they were familiar with at finance chief Andrew tant and the leading story in jury. Prosecutors say they least one of the lawyers Fastow and former chief Houston for the past three knew the sale was a sham involved in the case. accounting officer Rick years, namely the demise of because Enron secretly 
Questionnaires distributed Causey, although none of the Enron," Petrocelli said. promised to buy back the 
to the potential jurors asked three is on the prosecution Prosecutors contend that barges. if they had any ties to witness list. Merrill Lynch's hunger for The defendants, who have Enron, Merrill Lynch or Daniel Petrocelli, Skilling's lucrative banking business pleaded innocent, are: Andersen, if they or some­lead trial attorney, attended from Enron prompted the Daniel Bayly, former chair­one close to them had a Monday's jury selection. He Merrill Lynch defendants to man of investment banking financial interest in the declined comment on the help push through the sham for Merrill Lynch; Robert S. 
companies and if they were proceedings, noting Skilling sale nearly two years before Furst, the former Enron hurt by the collapse of had "nothing to do" with the Enron crashed in scandal. relationship manager for Enron and Andersen. barge case. Petrocelli plans While not alleged to have Merrill Lynch; James A. None of the six defendants to ask the judge in Skilling's contributed to Enr.on's Brown, former head of have the notoriety of case, which hasn't yet been December 2001 bankruptcy, Merrill Lynch's asset lease Enron's former top man­set for trial, to move it out of prosecutors say it's one of and fmance group; William agers, such as founder Houston. The barge defen­many schemes the company Fuhs, former Merrill Lynch Kenneth Lay and former dants didn't request a used to polish a facade of vice president who CEO Jeffrey Skilling. change of venue. success. answered to Brown; Dan Werlein mentioned "I think it is absolutely The six defendants are Boyle, a former finance 
Skilling on Monday as one of critical to be able to probe charged with conspiracy executive on Fastow's staff; the names jurors would intensively every prospective and fraud, and three face and Sheila Kahanek, a for­hear during the trial. He juror's exposure to what has additional charges of lying mer in-house Enron also cited former Enron been one of the most impor-to investigators or a grand accountant. 


Fannie Mae manipulated earnings 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON-Federal regulators have found evidence suggesting that mortgage giant Fannie Mae manipu­lated earnings to facilitate bigger bonuses to executives, according to a lawmaker familiar with the fmdings. 
In an eight-month investigation, the agency that supervises Fannie Mae found a pattern of manipulation aimed at smoothing out volatility in profits from quarter to quarter similar to that which occurred at rival Freddie Mac -whose understatement of billions in profits prompted a man­agement shake-up and a $125 million government fme. 
The agency. the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, was presenting its new report criticizing Fannie Mae's accounting practices to the board of the government-spon­sored company on Monday. 
The report provides "a strong indi­cation that Fannie Mae manipulated earnings in a way that appears to be smoothing," said Michael DiResto, spokesman for Rep. Richard Baker, R­La., who has been briefed on the OFHEO fmdings. 
DiResto was confirming a report in Monday's Wall Street Journal. He said that Baker, who heads a House panel that oversees the two mortgage giants, had a "strong concern" that increasing executive bonuses may have been a factor behind the faulty accounting. 
OFHEO spokeswoman Corinne Russell declined comment, as did Janice Daue, a spokeswoman for Fannie Mae. 
Fannie Mae's chairman and chief executive, Franklin Raines, has defended the company's accounting and said that it has unfairly suffered "collateral damage" from the account­ing crisis at Freddie Mac. 
Washington-based Fannie Mae is the second-largest U.S. financial insti­tution behind Citigroup. 
Its accounting came under close scrutiny after Freddie Mac, its smaller rival in the multitrillion-dollar home mortgage market, disclosed in June 2003 that it had understated profits. 


--:-:------~---------------------­
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 

EPA to create new rules for -waste 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Trying to overcome a possibly crippling court decision, the Environmental Protection Agency hopes to have a propos­al by early next year on new radiation exposure limits at a proposed nuclear waste site in Nevada. 
Jeffrey Ilolmstead, chief of EPA's air and radiation pro­grams, told a panel of scientists Monday that a wide range of options is being considered that would not require Congress to intervene in the politically charged issue. 
The future of the waste proj­ect at Yucca Mountain in the Nevada desert was put into jeopardy when a federal appeals court rejected an EPA radiation exposure standard in 

Fact-finding done in DeLay case 
Ethics committee to present news on majority leader 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON House ethics committee leaders said Monday they soon will present the panel with information on Majority Leader Torn DeLay's conduct and recommend whether to undertake a full investigation. 
The announcement from Chairman Joel Hefley, R-Colo., and Alan Mollohan, D-W.Va., did not say whether the com­mittee would be convened this week on a complaint that DeLay misused his office for political purposes. 
"In the near future we will be presenting to the committee the information we have obtained and recommendations for com­mittee action," the written statement said. 
A three-part complaint was filed by a Democratic lawmaker defeated in the primary, Hep. Chris Bell of Texas. The 10­member committee, equally divided by party, could send the allegations to an investigative subcommittee, dismiss some allegations while ordering a probe of others or throw out the complaint. 
Two allegations directly involve use of DeLay's congres­sional office. 
One accuses the Texas Hepublican of soliciting corpo­rate contributions in return for help on legislation. A second contends he improperly used his staff to contact U.S. aviation authorities and ask them to track down Texas Democratic legislators who had fled the state while trying to thwart a DeLay-backed redistricting plan. 
The third allegation accuses DeLay of using his political action committees to distribute money from corporations to Texas legislative candidates in violation of state law. 
DeLay has replied to the com­mittee, but has not released his response publicly. 
In related developments: 
+ A grand jury in Austin, Texas, was expected to meet Tuesday in its investigation of July that was tied to 10,000 years into the future, even though some of the waste will be at its most dangerous thou­sands of years later. 
The court said EPA failed to take into account a 1995 National Academy of Sciences recommendation that the stan­dard be set at periods of peak­radiation, although Congress required that the recommenda­tions be followed. Opponents of the project have argued that the design of the waste site as it is now contemplated cannot meet a standard set that far into the future. 
Members of the Board of Hadioactive Waste Management, a part of the National Academy of Sciences, examined at a meeting Monday the implications of the court case and possible options for election spending by a political action committee associated with DeLay, Texans for a Hepublican Majority. Bell's corn­plaint contends the same politi­cal committee sent $190,000 in corporate money to the Hepublican National Committee in an illegal scheme to give money to Texas state legislative candidates. The grand jury is looking into similar allegations. 
+ 
Bell asked the ethics commit­tee, formally the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct, to subpoena a report that could provide insight into one of his aJlegations. The report, pre­pared for Westar Energy, inves­tigated the company's 2002 plan to influence pending feder­al legislation by making politi­cal donations. 

+ 
A group seeking an inde­pendent investigator in the case ran newspaper ads this week in Hefley's and Mollohan's horne states. The ads accuse the com­mittee members of keeping their heads in the sand and "choosing to play ostrich rather than investigate" DeLay. 



future action. The board fre­quently offers a forum to exam­ine waste management issues. 
Robert Fri. chairman of the National Academy panel that wrote the 1995 report cited by the court, suggested the EPA satisfy the court's objections only by significantly altering its standard more in line with what his group had recom­mended. 
That would involve going well beyond 10,000 years, but not necessarily so far into the future that risk modeling, or even the proposed Yucca design, might be useless, Fri suggested. 
EPA would have to adopt a less conservative approach to determining public risks from exposure, said Fri, a scholar at the environmental think tank Resources for the Future. 

First fallen fe111ale 


firefighter honored 
Thousands gather in California 
Associated Press 

ANGELS CAMP. Calif. ­Thousands of colleagues from around the country gathered Monday to honor the first female firefighter from the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection to die in the line of duty. 
Eva Marie Schicke, who died Sept. 12 while battling a fire in Stanislaus National Forest. was remembered as a small-town girl who was reli­gious, fiercely competitive, musical, athletic and at home whether baby-sitting children or drinking with the guys. 
The funeral for Schicke, who was in her fifth season as a firefighter and would have been 24 next month, 

NO LAW FAIR 
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21 11 a.m.-3 p.m. JACC Concourse 

Please come chat with Admissions Representatives who will answer your questions and provide information and materials on law schools. 
Students of all levels are welcome to this informal event. 

Siz~le'ne (Siulelini®)­On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95!

S~in:: A siuling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented



Bellini 
with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti.

Tuesdays B;)-Iefie (Bellini)­A frosty, peach Italian work 
of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays) ­
Visit us EVERY Tuesday for 
lunch or dinner to celebrate 
\ ' 

drew more than 3,000 col­leagues from throughout California, and as far as New York City. 
A line of uniformed fire­fighters stretched for a quar­ter-mile around the main arena as pallbearers unloaded the casket under an arch of flag-draped ladders. 
"No firefighter lives with guarantees. Eva was fully aware of the danger inherent in answering the call," said Jim Wright, CDF's chief of fire protection. "She wanted to make a difference. She knew that acts of quiet hero­ism must be performed on a daily basis." 
An investigation into the circumstances that led to Schicke's death is expected to take several more weeks. 
----------~~ --------~---------~~---~ 
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 The Observer·+ ELECTION NEWS pag<'l9 
Candidates agree on presidential debates 
Bush, Kerry to participate in three sessions 
Associated Press 
DERRY, N.H. -Negotiators for President Bush and Democrat John Kerry agreed Monday to three 90-minute debates beginning Sept. 30, including one town-hall format with questions from undecided voters. 
The two campaigns essential­ly went along with recommen­dations from the bipartisan Commission on Presidential Debates -except for the pro­posed subject matter of the first and third debates. 
The topic of the first meeting will be foreign policy and homeland security, rather than the economy as the commission had suggested. The final debate, which was to be on for­eign policy, will now be about the economy. 
Details of the agreement were announced by former Secretary of State James A. Baker III, the chief negotiator for Bush, and attorney Vernon Jordan for Kerry. 
The first debate will be Sept. 30 at the University of Miami in Coral Gables, Fla. The second, a town-hall style format, will be Oct. 8 at Washington University in St. Louis, and the third will beheld Oct. 13 at Arizona State University in Tempe. 
One vice presidential debate between Vice President Dick Cheney and Democratic vice presidential nominee John Edwards takes place Oct. 5 at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland. 

Bush and Kerry "are pleased with today's announcement and look forward to the deba.tes," Baker and Jordan said in a joint statement. Details were outlined in an accompanying 32-page document. 
Kerry's campaign agreed to the commission's proposal for venues, dates and moderators in July, about a month after the commission released its sched­ule. Bush's campaign at first sought only to limit the scope to two presidential debates and one vice presidential debate, according to those familiar with the negotiations. 
The campaigns also agreed to the commission's choice of moderators: Jim Lehrer of PBS for the first, Charles Gibson of ABC for the second, Bob Schieffer of CBS for the third, and Gwen Ifill of PBS for the vice presidential debate. 
The commission only invited the two major-party candi­dates. In the agreement, Bush and Kerry said that should cir­cumstances change, and a third-party candidate be added, the candidate would have to abide by terms of their agreB­ment. 
GOP leads in financial backing 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The GOP's qecision to hold its presidential nominating convention a month later than the Democratic gathering is giving President Bush a big financial advantage in the campaign's fmal weeks. 
Not only does Democratic hopeful John Kerry have to make his $7 5 million in full government financing for the general-election campaign stretch a month longer than Bush does, but the Democratic National Committee has also started burning through the money it has banked to pro­mote its nominee faster than the Republican National Committee has. 
Kerry spent $10 million of his $75 million government check last month, starting September with $62 million left. The DNC started this month with $56 million in the bank after spend­ing roughly $46 million in August, much of it on TV and radio ads supporting Kerry and opposing Bush. 
The Republican National 
Committee spent about $20 million in August, starting September with nearly $94 million on hand. The party nominated Bush on Sept. 2, putting an end to his private campaign fund-raising just over a month after Kerry's nomination put an end to his. 
Both parties are aggressively raising money to spend in the presidential race, In addition to the unlimited amounts they can spend independent of their nominees, each can spend roughly $16 million in coordi­nation with them. 


Morgan ~ Stanley 
Morgan Stanley Invites You. • • 
FIRMWIDE PRESENTATION Morgan Stanley, a global leader in investment banking, is looking for people with a passion to join the exciting world of finance. Corporations, governments, and others come to us for the most innovative solutions to the most complex problems, including financial restructuring, mergers and acquisitions, and privatizations. Providing those solutions takes energy, talent, teamwork and a devotion to excellence. 
How far can an investment banking career take you? Morgan Stanley is the place to find out. Whatever your aspirations, we can give you the tools and the opportunities to achieve them. 
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 
7:30 p.m. The Morris Inn 
Visit and apply online at: www.morganstanley.com/careers 
Morgan Stanley is an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer committed to workforce diversity. (M;F/0/V) © 2004 Morgan Stanley 

page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Sox Q. Notr< Dam~. JN <165~ 024 South Dining Hall. Nom: Datne,lN 465$6 
EDITOR IN CHiEf Matt Lour 

MANAGING EDITOR  8USINJ!SS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
ASST. M,\NAf,ING EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

N~ws EDITORs Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITORs S2rah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SaNE EDITOR: Maria Snrith IN Focus Eorrolb Meghan Marrin SAJN'l' MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR• Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGERs. Carrie Franklin 
Ao DtsiGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTF.MS ADMINISTRATOR• Mary Allen 
CON'fROLU!R: Paula Garcia· 
0FACE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscad@nd.edu 
Eo1roR tN CHieF 

(574) 6.31-4542 MANAGING EDitOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS 0FACE (574} 631-531.3 
News DESK 

(574) 63!-5323 obmews,l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.I@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'$ DESK smc.l @nd.edu PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
o'B~~RVERONLJNE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer i~ the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collegt>. Edicorial content. includingadvertisemenu, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the: right to refuse advertisements based on oontent. 
The news i$ reporced as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, 
A.l$isrartt Managing Editor and dep~m editou. Commentllfies, leners and columns presenr the views ofthe authors and not m:assarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is"available co all readers. The free ocpre.ssion ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include mntac! information. 
~stions rrgarrJing Oburverpoliciff 1hould b~ di"ct"' to Editor in Chief Matt ltJmr. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
"fhd Oh.enltt (US!J£ ~«.192·4000) C. puhlbhc.t Mohd..y tbM:Uj11 lltNh)' ~c d.u:lh$ exam .nJ •.atiun pcrtodl. A whlu:ipllon m TheO:lucriNit i1 $tOO rar<IDC"-.:admlia:. yew; u~ f~n one-IC'IQGtr.J. Thf OP~" ~a fn.Wibct ~:~f th<-~ltl!~rd Prett....\lll'fp"'d~ci.lm riPe• •w 
......... 
l'h<-Ob.~itpt$blu~41ct I>Q.Ilo,Q 

~H S.u<h l1lningl1~1 o~• s • .,h Oioiogi1•U ~u~ D,ttt", IN 46'S~ ~'~<= v.,.., IN 46.\)6-0:r.>'J l'c!,KKbt.J fJ'dlf~~ J)*id u Nbmt l.>aftk 411d ..ddir.on.S •••ilins ofriC(!I:. 
POSTW..'miR 
~d _..J~WJffC'I~ Q:lt 
1'1..()0• ..., .. 

1\,0W..••:r;. • ..,.,.~,. .t!he Anoci....l 1-All ~tion r'I)>Q.,. 
_,... 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Teresa Fralish Justin Schuver Claire Heininger Mike Gilloon Tricia DeGroot Chris Khorey. 
Viewpoint Scene Maureen Ram a Reynolds Gottumukkala 
Katherine Rowley Illustrator Graphics Katie Knorr Graham Ebetsch 
... 
THE ()BSERVIR 





IEWPOINT 
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 

John Kerry on Iraq: a reasoned approach 

You've heard the jokes on both sides. Daddy's Texas cowboy paints the war on terror in black and white, unable or refusing to acknowledge the com­plexities of the situation abroad. The bleeding heart liber­al equivocates on the Katie Boyle issues at stake while babbling on about a For what it's few Purple Hearts he worth may or may not have earned during Vietnam. 
I have a suggestion. Forget about President Bush and Sen. John Kerry's respective military records. I guaran­tee that you can find many soldiers who have proven more heroic than they. In addition, the legitimacy of Vietnam is still debated today. Bush's father allegedly pulled strings to place him in the National Guard. Blame him for this opportunism if you will, but many would have done the same. Some also question Bush's fulfillment of his National Guard duties. 
Conversely. Kerry did a shortened tour of duty in Vietnam. Some, howev­er, question his motivation and honors earned. Squabbling over which man was more patriotic over a quarter of a century ago is a waste of time. 
More importantly, consider that the blatant manipulation of facts by politi­cal candidates could, in layman's terms, be called lying. I do not consid­er giving a deliberate false impression to be anything else. I do not claim that the Democratic Party or its candidate has never engaged in this act. I would, however, like to point out the mind­boggling level of stupidity the Republican Party assigns the average voter in this election. 
I am astonished that the Republicans have chosen to make Ken:y's military service a key issue this year as they attempt to attack him and fortify their 'tough on terror' image. I hear Bush captures rattlesnakes too. 
Barehanded. 

The reason, however, that I am so surprised at the Republican National Committee's decision to prioritize this issue in conjunction with the war on terror is the relative weakness of its position. Bush's record aside, Vice President Dick Cheney obtained five deferments during the Vietnam War, and is quoted as saying, "I had other priorities in the '60s than military service." Attorney General John 
OBSERVER POLL 
Ashcroft was granted an eyebrow­
raising seven deferments. 
Given these facts, why would Republicans invite such accusations? Considering the Republican machine's assault on war veteran Sen. John McCain in the last election, one could surmise that it has the mentality of a rabid dog, attacking anything which agitates it. This comparison, however, is not my answer. 
Perhaps Karl Rove decided it was easier to attack Kerry's past than his policies. Vietnam still captures the attention of many Americans, and Kerry has consistently demonstrated both logic and intelligence in his Senate votes on war and terrorism. 
It is true that Kerry's opinions on war and terror are not simple. Neither is the situation abroad. For this rea­son, he is. correct. One can only sur­mise that the snide remarks accusing Kerry of flip-flopping on the issues are meant to appeal to the voter who can't be bothered to read a paragraph fol­lowing his line of thought. There are many such voters. Hopefully, you aren't one of them. 
Kerry voted for the war in Iraq. He continues to be supportive of this war. He believes, however, that the Bush administration should have recruited allies to aid America after its invasion. Kerry did vote against funding the war. With this decision, he intended to make a public statement regarding the Bush's handling of the Iraqi situation and his decision to take the country further into debt to fund the war with Iraq instead of repealing tax cuts. Kerry has always maintained that had the bill been in danger of not passing. he would never have endangered our troops in his second vote against it. 
In Europe last year, I realized the strength of anti-American sentiment abroad. 
I use the phrase 'anti-American' hesitantly, as in most cases I was met with incredible politeness and civility. The name "George Bush," however, was not. 
If elected, Kerry will help to raise America's image from the graveyard of unilateralism. Not only does the simple choice of Kerry make a strong state­ment to the rest of the world, he will counteract the current egotistical view of our nation the Bush administration perpetuates. Kerry claims he will try to adhere to the advice of the United 
Nations. Despite Bush's flat repudia­
tion of weapons of mass destruction. 
in 2003 at the U.N. General Assembly, 
the United States was the only nation 
to vote against the Comprehensive 
Test Ban Treaty. 
In an even more telling move, the 
United States, India and Micronesia 
were the sole votes against a plan to 
prevent nuclear proliferation in the 
Middle East. Were this technology its 
reason for preemptively attacking 
Iraq, one would think such a strategy 
would be approved. 
Fighting the war on terror without revamping America's image assumes the war on terror can be won with guns and firepower. Without discount­ing its importance in this effort, if America does not directly counteract the imperialist portrayal it projects even in Western Europe, how will she refute the slander of radical ideo­logues in the Middle East? Instead, in many cases, the United States has strengthened the perception of an imperious America that lacks respect for other cultures. The sympathy our nation garnered after Sept. 11 is giv­ing way to the increasing popularity of jihad in the Middle East, promulgating support for terrorist attacks. 
A decisive victory has never been possible in the war on terror. What America needs is the slow transforma­tion of a world view. Of course, one cannot rule out the use of aggressive tactics. But the Bush administration's dependence upon them is only likely to antagonize those who have not yet left America's side. 
When accepting the Democratic nomination, Kerry quoted a former, great President. "I don't want to claim that God is on our side. As Abraham Lincoln told us, I want to pray humbly that we are on God's side." 
America needs a change in its approach to foreign policy and the war on terror. 
That change will come with the elec­tion of John Kerry. 
Katie Boyle is a senior English, polit­ical science and Spanish major. She supports John Kerry. She can be reached at kboyle2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are th>Jse ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The real art of conversatiOTJ is not only to say 
the right thing in the right place, but, far more
Are you registered to vote? 
difficult still, to leave unsaid the wrong thing at the tempting moment." 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
Dorothy Nevill 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Battling over the right to life 
1 am loathe to state the obvious to the learned fellows that make up the phi-· losophy faculty, but the battle over the right to life-each individual human being's fundamental right to receive and preserve the incidents of their unique creation in due course-has never and should never be about "whether life begins at conception." If such was the case, Hoe v. Wade could be overruled, re-decided and (unfortu­nately) reaffirmed monthly -the fruit of whatever "Studies-Have-Shown" bestseller happens to appear embold­ened by our academic journals, chock full of words like "inadequate cellular respiration." 
Whether life scientifically begins at conception is a question that, if answered affirmatively, would surely benefit the pro-life movement. Nevertheless, it remains but a red-her­ring enabling those who deny a funda­mental right to life from the starting point of human development to avert their eyes in a principled way from what technology has evolved to reveal since Roe v. Wade -ultrasound pic­tures of hearts beating; babies being born premature at four to five months gestation, yet thriving; the in-womb surgery to correct spina-bifida. 
By inserting highly technical lan­guage into their arguments, our profes­sionals obscure the humanness of the new entity, and ask the laity to ignore mere fundamental logic: once created through seed and soil, the entity begun is an entity human. It shall not mutate into a dog or a shark; it is not, as Ben Stein said recently on C-Span, "Jell-0." Like some convicted soldier crawling up perilous Iwo Jima to a destination of victory, whatever "it" "is" unabashedly reaches for the tools to grow into what society might in its ever-unprincipled short-sightedness recognize as a human being-e.g. some appearance we can at least measure against Mona Lisa or David. For thousands of years -excepting Roman barbarism -we could trust that nothing short of nature's will-a defect in the process itself-could prevent "its" suc­cessful ascent to its birthright. 
Indeed, we might easily replace our so­called "conceit" of thinking of human life as a "con­catenation of atomic points in time" because the worthy understudy has more experience in the spot­light of his­tory any­way. We may there­fore think anew of the "right" to human life as "sparking" with a moment of atomic preci­sion. We mark this moment by our logic, as described above, and concede to it by our own ignorance after. It is not for us to obstruct the process that will produce Edward Maniers and William Shakespeares. For if it was, for example, what harm could "Prof. X" find in the time-adven­turing conceits of an outspoken col­league, who, having been recently embarrassed by X's challenging expose' in an academic journal, travels back to "A.D. X: moment of concep­tion," and proceeds to prevent any fur-

Rock the Democratic vote? 
The College Democrats and Rock the Vote came to the College Republicans meeting on Wednesday with a proposal. They requested assistance with their program, designed to register voters throughout the South Bend area, and then to provide transportation for those voters to the polls.. Needless to say, their cause is a noble one. It is important that everyone have the abili­ty to vote. 
The problem perceived by the College Republicans with that program was that the precincts being serviced are over­whelmingly Democratic precincts. Republicans are not trying to destroy democracy, but they are trying to get a Republican governor (Mitch Daniels) and a Republican senator (Chris Chocola) elected this November. 
The College Democrats and Rock the Vote were asking the College Republicans to support a program that could potentially thwart the campaigns of these two candi­dates. 
As many College Republicans expected, an article about Wednesday's meeting was published in the Viewpoint. Philip Wells wrote that the College Republicans "voted unanimously against democracy ... based on prejudicial assumptions regarding race and income." I think Wells was at the wrong meeting, because at the College Republicans meeting I attended Wednesday, race and income were never mentioned. 
The motion to support the Rock the Vote program failed because the College Republicans support Daniels and Chocola, not because they hate democracy or because they are racially and economically prejudiced. Wells may as well have said, "The College Republicans are big fans of Senator Ted Kennedy," because that state­ment would be every bit as true as his statement about our vote against democra­cy because of "racial and economic profil­ing." 
Wells also commented that the College Republicans would prefer Democrats to stay silent and not vote in November. This is certainly not true. 
I will say, however, that decisions are made by those who show up, and it is not the responsibility of the College Republicans to solicit Democratic votes. The College Republicans cannot and will not be blamed for poor Democratic voter turnout, nor will they stand by while their support for democnicy is questioned as a result of their support for Republican can­didates. 
Joe Walker sophomore Morrissey Hall Sept. 20 

ther development? Under Manier's "atomic theory" has any personal "right" of Prof. X himself been infringed? 
I should say, "yes," in a resounding "war-cry" of injustice. A collateral retort that traces the ipjustice simply to the temporal want and choice of X's loving parents merits no dis­cussion here, where it is the 
right of X (post-facto, if you will), a 
real person, with whom we are con­cerned. Put simply, if you prefer to bequeath 

your right to exist and grow and learn-from your own "it" conception until death -to the willfulness of anotlier of God's fallen creatures ­how much you are "wanted"-I suggest you install an extra lock on your door, and hire a lob­byist in Congress-you're not get­ting any younger. 
Manier suggests the derision and division caused by alleged hate-filled life issues polarization "destroys the spirit of agape love essential to a cul­ture of life." I cannot disagree-inci­dentally, I hope Manier may challenge stereotypes reducing the pro-life move­ment to war-like, epithet-chanting fanatics. 
Admittedly, invoking visualizations of the Nazi holocaust or slavery have an incendiary impact, but the intent is to charitably remind the ever-selfish and non-agape human community that it has before forgotten who was human -or had the right to be called "human"-and might have done so again -no less than 40 million times. Paused reflection on these images offers us all a potential escape from the unforgiving weight of tomorrow's con­demnation -the rest of the history book that follows our deeds now. 
Manier will no doubt recall that "agape" love is "self-giving" love. I have found Paul's own verse a master­ful depiction of what this must be: 
"Have among yourselves the same attitude that is also yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not regard equality as something to be grasped. Rather, he emptied himself, taking the form of a slave, coming in human likeness ... " (Philippians 2:6-7). 
We, also, are called to pour out our own selves; let our resources and our love and support flow so that nothing is left. This includes loving those "Samaritans" who differ from you politically and morally, but it necessari­ly, fundamentally includes opening your arms, as Christ-whether you call Him divine or no -did on His cross, accepting what suffering and sacrifice may come, but welcoming all life to pass through its ordained gates. And if that welcoming means a contin­uing "civil-war" of ideology, "then let it come ... and let it be, finally, the last battle of the American Revolution." (cf. Anthony Hopkins as John Quincy Adams, Amistad). 
Andrew Hiller law student Sept. 20 

Definition of a 
College Republican 
As co-President of the College Republicans, I would like to clear something up lest there be any mistake. Neither I, the officers of the club, nor the College Republicans as a club are racist in any manner. Such suggestions merely evince the bitter nature of those who propose this initiative. I myself am a minority and first­generation American; my father was born in Bogota, Colombia and did not immigrate to America until he was 20. This decision had nothing to do with race and everything to do with the num­bers. To suggest otherwise is offensive, hurtful and degrading. 
Our club researched the issue and saw that the Transpo routes travel directly through heavily Democratic districts. In essence, we would be campaigning for the opposite party. Therefore, we decided this was not an endeavor that we could afford to waste pre­cious time and resources on. We instructed the Democrats that if they wished to go ahead with this effort they could do so but we would not put our name on a purely partisan effort. 
The College Republicans are not anti-democratic. If the Democratic Party wants to go out and register their own, that is fme with us, but please do not try and convince us it is in our own interest and a bi-partisan effort. Our club is called the College Republicans and not the College Voter Initiative Club; it is our job to help the local campaigns of Republican candidates not to become involved in counter-pro­ductive, biased efforts. In fact, we have gone out into the community and campaigned for Chris Chocola ever since the mid-term elections two years ago. My freshman year, I went door-to­door for the Congressman; so I resent the implication that we want nothing to do with South 
I 
I

Bend. The reality is that we 
should rather get involved in I I community outreach and cam­I paigning that is not slanted against the candidates that we spend so much time helping. 
Ian Ronderos co-President of the College Republicans junior Keough Hall Sept. 20 
......
---------------------------------------------~------------­
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 
DVD REVIEWS 

'Mystic River' delivers drama, intrigue 
By JULIE HYNES Scrnr Critic 
. 

Clint Eastwood's "Mystic IUver" might be the most scintillating crime film coming out on DVD in recent weeks. Based on the best-selling novel by Dennis Lehane, the lilm is sure to keep your interest piqued for the duration. The movie also boasts an all-star cast including Sean Penn, Tim Hobbins, Kevin Bacon and Laurence Fishburne. 
"Mystic Hiver" starts out by 11ashing back 25 years ago to a fateful day on the streets of Boston. Jimmy Markum (Penn). Dave Boyle (Hobbins) and Sean Devine (Bacon) are playing a game of stickball when a car rolls up and a well-dressed gentlemen steps out iden­tifying himself as a police officer. lie lectures the boys. sending Jimmy and Sean home. The officer tells Dave. he must get into his car because the offi­cer is going to drive him home. At this point the audience has an inkling that something is not quite right with this set up. There is an ominous feeling that 


onecannotshakeasthecarrollsawa~ 
It turns out the well-dressed man is no police officer. He is in fact a sex offender. Luckily, Dave is able to escape after a horrifying experience and returns home. 
But it is here that "Mystic River" rais­es one of several thought provoking questions. Can victims of such violent sexual abuse really go on with their lives? Twenty-five years later some­thing about him is definitely discon­certing. There is an emptiness in his blue eyes that one can't help but notice. 
Tragedy st.rikes the community and brings Jimmy, Dave and Sean together again when Jimmy's daughter Katie is brutally murder·ed after a night out with the girls. The police know that Dave was at the bar Katie was last seen at that night. They do not know that the very same night he came home covered in blood with a fuzzy story about killing a sex offender. 
As the film progresses, Dave becomes more and more of a prominent suspect. His wife looks through the paper each day hoping to find sup­port for her husband's story with no luck. Can Sean solve this homicide before Jimmy decides to ·take matters into his 
own hands? 
The cast in "Mystic 
River" couldn't be 
stronger. Penn gives a 
great performance as an 
ex-con. The audience. is 
truly wary as to ·what he 
may do next and he's 

Dark action film tackles vengeful anti-hero 
became a pseudo-superhero, one that saved lives by taking those of others. His trademark -a white skull on a black backdrop. 
The movie remains largely faithful to the comic, with only minor changes. Frank Castle, the Punisher's alter ego, hasn't developed psychic powers. or the ability to turn green when angry. He's an average guy, so driven by grief that he accomplishes feats that some would consider impossible. After his family is killed, Frank proceeds to take on the Saint crime organization, led by Howard Saint (John Travolta). Travolta plays the malevolent role decently, but does not come off as evil as his character in "Face/Off." 
However, there are some still minor complaints with the acting in general. Thomas Jane, the actor who plays Frank Castle, does a commendable job 
·playing the Punisher. It's not the great­est acting performance ever, but it was convincing. And when compared to the people who were offered the position first, such as Yin Diesel. the acting could be seen as Oscar-worthy. The support­
ing roles are somewhat comedic, which interfere with the dark nature of the movie. While the humor is nice because it lightens an otherwise terribly dark movie, it feels out of place at times and ruins the mood. 
The DVD video trans­fer is a decent one. Video and audio quality are both quite good. The By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scrnr Critic 

!laving a bad day? Well. "The Punisher" is a great movie to put things into perspective. No matter how bad your day is going. there is almost no way that it could top the one for Frank Castle, the main character in "The Punisher." In the span of 30 minutes he loses his entire family, including all in­laws and distant relatives. And that is just the beginning. 
Far from being the feel-good movie of the year, "The Punisher" is however one of the better comic book movies to have been released. While it doesn't quite reach the high standards set by the "Spider-Man" and "X-Men" franchises, it still rises above the generic tripe that Hollywood calls an action movie. 
The characters and concept for "The Punisher" were derived from the pages of Marvel comics. Originally set in a vil­lainous role, creator Stan Lee felt the Punisher was too sympathetic a charac­ter to be pegged a total rogue. So he definitely not someone to mess with. 

Robbins gives a haunting perform­ance. It is impossible to determine if his character is a dangerous killer or a guy who just hasn't been completely there since that fateful car ride. Bacon helps give the movie a balanced feel as his character keeps his wits about him in the midst of chaos. Fishburne has a supporting role as one of the investiga­tors of the murder. 
"Mystic River" will not disappoint. It is hard to do the film justice on paper because it is impossible to cover all of the complex. varying subplots and to write about all of the twists would ruin the movie for those who haven't seen it. 
But do yourself the favor of renting it. It's a great alternative to the always­enjoyable romantic comedy that often finds its way into a dorm DVD player. Popcorn is recommended -you will need something to chew nervously on during the intensely suspenseful moments. 
Contact Julie Hynes at jhynes 1 @nd.edu 

darker colors are slightly off. so a TV that has a hard time with black scales might not show this movie under the best light, especially because a lot of scenes take place at night. 
The extras on the DVD are quite nice with. deleted scenes, commentaries and featurettes being included. The com­mentaries give the viewer some more depth, such as comments by the director that tell the viewer how the limited film budget caused certain scenes to be cut. With a larger budget, this movie would have easily been a rival to the other released superhero adventures. 
Hopefully a sequel will address many of the plot ideas mentioned in the spe­cial features on the disc. Overall, "The Punisher" is a good movie with some very decent action scenes and a truly awesome fight scene involving wrestler Kevin Nash. With some good special fea­tures and decent video and audio trans­fers, this is definitely a recommended DVD for fans to pick up. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
THE 0BSERVtR 




CENE
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 
page 13 
MOVIE REVIEW 

Film serves up new shot at old game 

By LIZ BYRUM Scene Writer 

The new film "Wimbledon," a roman­tic comedy produced by the company who brought "Notting Hill" and "Bridget Jones' Diary" to the big screen, takes a new approach to the classic story of the underdog. In the movie, Peter Colt (Paul Bettany) intrigues the audience as he strives for the impossible at Wimbledon and steals the heart of American tennis star Lizzie Bradbury (Kirsten Dunst). 
Peter Colt is a former tennis great who was once ranked 11th in the world, but has since 
Colt's life as he tries to fulfill his dream of winning the men's singles title against the best young tennis players in the world. His family gives the movie needed depth, as well as a wonderful taste of British humor. Although they each play minor parts in the film, the actors who portray Colt's mother, father and brother each fit their roles very well. 
"Wimbledon" also shows an aspect of a sport that many people never see. 
That is the role a parent sometimes plays in the life of a grown athlete. In the movie, Lizzie's father, Dennis Bradbury (Sam Neill). wants to control every aspect of her life in order to see 
her win. As the 
fallen from glory -story plays out,
11Wimbledon"
all the way to a their relation­ranking of 119. At 
ship grows and the age of 31, he is changes as at the end of his ten­Dennis realizes nis career and has that his daugh­Director: Richard Loncraine 
received one last ter can make 
Writer: Adam Brooks and Mark Levin
chance in the wild-her own deci­
Starring: Paul Bettany, Kirsten Dunst, 
card spot at sions. 
Bernard Hill, Kyle Hyde and Sam Neill
Wimbledon, the The relation­

most prestigious ten­nis tournament in the world. 

Throughout the movie, Colt's luck takes him through ups and downs both professionally and personally. Finding love gives him the confidence he needs to fight back after years of defeat, but he isn't sure it will be enough to take him back to the top. Bettany's perform­ance is a believable one that leaves you rooting for the underdog. 
"Wimbledon" provides a comical and touching portrayal of many aspects of 
ship Colt has with his practice partner and best friend, German tennis champion Dieter Proll (Nicolaj Coster Waldau). also pro­vides an important aspect to "Wimbledon" by showing the support and encouragement friends and com­petitors can have for one another. Even for someone who doesn't play sports, this relationship could teach an impor­tant lesson about loyalty and friendship. On the opposite· end of the spectrum is the young Jake Hammond (Austin Nichols). the favorite in the tourna­ment, and Colt's personal and profes­sional enemy from the beginning. With a small, but significant role, Hammond is truly a character the audience loves to hate. 
At first glance, this story may seem like nothing more than a sappy romance that only teenage girls would enjoy. However, it is much more than that. It is a story that brings together aspects of love and athletics in a way that is not seen very often at the movies. It may take a certain kind of guy to appreciate what is put across in the film, but it is definitely worth a try. Through impressive acting, great writ­ing and a complex storyline, "Wimbledon" rises above the average teen movie. 
Contact Liz Byrum at ebyrum@nd.edu 

'Sopranos,' HBO triumph at Emmys 
Associated Press 

"The Sopranos" finally whacked its competitors in the best drama category at: the Emmy Awards, and a comedy series victory for ratings-starved "Arrested Development" proved some­body was watching. But it was HBO and its record-breaking "Angels in America" that fluttered away with the most trophies. 
IIBO's megahit about a New Jersey mob family collected the best drama Emmy on its fifth try Sunday, and the channel's "Sex and the City" and "Angels in America" helped cable over­shadow the traditional networks. 
"We've put a lot of work into it and I think we've gotten better. It's good that it finally paid off." series creator David Chase said of "The Sopranos," which is entering its last season. 
MeaPwhile, the theme was "gone, but not forgotten" in many of the acting categories as stars who ended their runs as beloved characters on "The Sopranos," "Frasier" and "Sex and the City" collected most of the series tro­phies. 
Drea de Matteo, who played the ill­fated mob girlfriend Adriana Ia Cerva on "The Sopranos," won for best drama series supporting actress, while Michael Imperioli, who played her backstabbing boyfriend Christopher Moltisanti, col­lected supporting drama-series actor. 
"There are so many people that are responsible for this, that if I even try to thank any of them right now, I might puke, choke, cry or die. And you've already seen me do that," said de Matteo, whose character met a grim end last season. She's now on NBC's "Friends" spinoff "Joey." 
Mirroring the concern in Hollywood over the dwindling number and quality of situation comedies, the four major comedy acting awards each went for work in a series that has ended. Kelsey Grammer won his fourth Emmy for best actor in a comedy for "Frasier" and Sarah Jessica Parker won best actress for "Sex and the City." 
"I had the most extraordinary life on television," Grammer said. "Frasier was a gift in my life and the people that I got to meet and work with were the gre~.test and this is just the cherry on top. 
David Hyde Pierce won a supporting actor award for "Frasier," which ended an 11-year run this spring, and Cynthia Nixon won best supporting actress for "Sex and the City." 
"In sitcom school they tell you how great it is to have a long-running show," said Hyde Pierce, "but they don't tell you how hard it is to say goodbye." 
Although cable ruled the night, Fox's "Arrested Development" provided a rare bright spot for broadcast televi­sion, winning as best comedy series after a freshman year that was critical­ly acclaimed but low rated. 
"This is so huge for us. You know what? Let's watch it," series creator Mitchell Hurwitz urged viewers. 
The broadcast networks also claimed honors for Allison Janney of NBC's "The West Wing" and James Spader of ABC's "The Practice," who won best actor awards for drama. 
"You've all made wonderful choices in shoes and dresses tonight and you all look absolutely beautiful," Spader said in a lighthearted acceptance. 
"Angels in America," the miniseries adaptation of Tony Kushner's Pulitzer Prize-winning play about the 1980s AIDS crisis, won seven Emmys, includ­ing outstanding miniseries and acting trophies for Al Pacino, Meryl Streep, Mary-Louise Parker and Jeffrey Wright. Kushner received a best writing award and Mike Nichols won best director. 
The two-part series proved a record breaker. With the four Emmys won Sept. 12 at the creative arts awards, it exceeded the nine awards "Roots" won in 1977 to become the most honored m1mseries _ and matched the·11 won by "Eleanor and Franklin" in 1976, the most for any program in one season. 
Streep praised Kushner's words as the reason for the TV miniseries' sue-cess. 

"The bravest thing in the world is that writer who sits alone in a room and works out his grief, his rage, his imagi­nation and his deep desire to make peo­ple laugh. And he makes a work of art that then transforms the world with the truth, because that's all we want, you know," she said. "It's all we need." 
The edgier programming on cable has come to overshadow the more restrained fare found on network televi­sion, where language, violence and sex are dealt with obliquely. 
HBO received a dominant 32 awards. Fox collected 10, followed by NBC with 8, ABC and PBS with seven each and CBS with two. 
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Twins wrap up third-straight AL Central title 
hats and T-shirts proclaiming
Hunter and Koskie 

them division champions and doused each other with cham­
homer as Minnesota 

pagne, beer and water in the defeats Chicago 8-2 clubhouse. Someone ponred beer over Jones' head, and sev­
Associated Press 

eral players poured beer down 
Gardenhire's back. Not even 
CIIICAGO -As Torii Hunter general manager Terry Hyan 
stood in the middle of the was safe; players sprayed him 
Minnesota '1\vins' raucous club­with champagne when he 
house, two teammates sneaked walked into the clubhouse. 
up from behind and threw a But no one minded the mess. 
cooler full of water on him. Minnesota had to wait for 
Hunter didn't even flinch. If someone else to lose to win its 
anything, the grin on his face last two division titles; this time 
got a little brighter. After every­they won on the fi~ld. 
thing the Twins have endured Minnesota is the second team to 
the last couple of seasons. it's clinch its division this year, join­
going to take a lot more than ing NL Central champ St. Louis. 
cold water to spoil their party. Orioles 9, Red Sox 6 
"Every year we've got to go Boston's strong rotation is out there and prove to so-me­struggling at the wrong time pody. But you know what? I like and hurting the team's slim it," Hunter said after the Twins chance of winning the AL East clinched their third straight AL title. . Central title Monday night with Tim Wa-kefield became the an 8-2 victory over the Chicago third straight Hed Sox starter to White Sox. fail in a big game when the 
"We're the underdogs, and Baltimore Orioles won. Boston we've got something to prove stayed 4 1/2 games behind the every day," he said. "That's our division-leading New York motivation, to go out there and Yankees, who lost 6-3 to prove people wrong." Toronto. 
The game was all but over The loss followed setbacks of after the first inning, when 11-1 and 14-4 in New York the Hunter and Corey Koskie each previous two days. 
the Royals up 5-3. He was Chacin became the first lefty the playoff race with a victoryhit a two-run homer off Mark "Starting this series, I know booed by some fans unaware of starter to win his major league over the Seattle Mariners. 
Buehrle. Though they were how important it was for me," the injury as he trotted slowly debut against the Yankees in The Angels closed within 2forced to play host to someone said Wakefield (11-1 0). ''I'm dis­around the bases. the Joe Torre era, leading the 1/2 games of idle Oakland in the 
else's party, the White Sox appointed that I let us down, 
Tigers 3, Indians 1 Toronto Blue Jays past New AL West and 4 1/2 of Boston innever put up much of a fight. very disappointed." 
Mike Maroth wriggled out of York. the wild-card chase despiteThe 1\vins hung over the rail­Wakefield, 0-3 in his last four trouble all night. With a shaved head, a 19-2 playing most of the night with­ing in front of their dugout for starts, got six of the first 10 outs Maroth pitched shutout ball record in the minors and fresh out star right fielder Vladimirthe final inning, and manager on strikeouts, then lost his con­into the seventh inning, and off a playoff win at Double-A, Guerrero, who was hit in theRon Gardenhire inser'ted trol and gave up five runs in the Dmitri Young and Brandon Inge Chacin held the AL East leaders head by a pitch in the first
Jacque Jones, one of the few fourth. Four scored on B.J. players left over from the team SurhofT's grand slam, and three homered to give the Detroit to a mere four hits before leav­inning. 
Tigers win over the Cleveland ing in the eighth inning. X-rays at a hospital were nor-'
that was threatened with con­more came in during the fifth traction, as a defensive replace­when Baltimore made it 8-2. Indians. "It's a big difference, coming mal, and Guerrero returned to 
ment so the veteran could be on "He looked so crisp, so confi­"It seems as if every time I here to Yankee Stadium," he the dugout during the game. 
the field. dent," Boston manager Terry pitch against Cleveland, I get said. "They've got a big, good Seattle's Jchiro Suzuki went 2­When Timo Perez popped out Francona said. "It got away into too many jams," said lineup. for-4 with a walk. His two sin­to shortstop Cristian Guzman very quickly." Maroth, who is 3-0 against the "I was just trying to do what gles gave him 238 hits this sea­Indians this season. "They get I've been doing," he said, "don't son, 19 short of George Sisler's
for the final out, the Twins SurhofT saw the difference in rushed onto the field, turning the fourth. guys on base and I find a way to have to be perfect." major league record set in 
get out of it." 
second base into an impromptu "Even the first pitch he threw The loss to last-place Toronto 1920. The Mariners have 12 mosh pit. me for a strike wasn't one of his Maroth (11-11) pitched 6 2-3 was just the Yankees' fourth games remaining. 
After bopping around and good ones," SurhofT said. innings, allowing six hits and defeat in 15 games. They were Winning pitcher John Lackey hugging for several minutes, Royals 6, Devil Rays 3 striking out three. Cleveland coming off an emotional two (13-12) gave up two runs and they walked toward the dugout Calvin Pickering had the per­stranded 11 runners. days in which they battered 10 hits in six innings, striking 
to shake hands with the coach­fect solution after tweaking his "He pitched out of three jams Boston, outscoring the Red Sox <Jut seven and walking none. ing staff. Gardenhire stayed at left hamstring during a key at­tonight," Tigers manager Alan 25-5. Troy Percival pitched a score­
the end of the line, hugging bat. Trammell said. "This guy Alex Rodriguez reached 100 less ninth for his 29th save in each player as he came ofT the He homered on the next pitch. should have a lot more wins, RB!s for the eighth straight year 34 chances. field. Pickering hit a tiebreaking but we don't give him any as New York remained 4 1/2 Angels second baseman Adam 
A couple hundred 1\vins fans two-run homer in the eighth runs." games ahead of Boston, which Kennedy left the game after stood behind the dugout whoop­inning to help the Kansas City Esteban Yan got four outs for lost 9-6 to Baltimore. spraining his right knee in the ing and hollering, and the Royals defeat the Tampa Bay his fifth save. A crowd of only 10,732 saw a fifth on a fielding play. scoreboard flashed congratula­Devil Rays. Detroit took a 2-0 lead in the game rescheduled less than two Guerrero left after he was hit tions. It's the first time in the "When I took the swing, it -first on Young's two-out, two­weeks ago. This three-game on the left side of his head by a team's 44-year history that the cramped up," Pickering said. run homer. series was supposed to open pitch from Ryan Franklin (4­1\vins have reached the playoffs "On the next pitch ! hit the ball, Blue Jays 6, Yankees 3 Tuesday night, but was pushed 16). Anaheim manager Mike in three straight seasons. but I wasn't even worrying Gustavo Chacin walked into up to accommodate a makeup Sciascia was ejected after 
"They're all great," about where the ball was going. Yankee Stadium for the first · against Tampa Bay caused by yelling and pointing at Franklin. Gardenhire said, referring to I didn't even know where it was time, looked around at the fans Hurricane Frances. McPherson started at third Minnesota's three straight divi­at. Then I looked up and saw and the monuments and the Angels 5, Mariners 2 base in place of Chone Figgins sion titles. "It means everything everybody running. I'm happy pinstripes, and felt like any Dallas McPherson had three as Sciascia juggled the lineup in in the world." with the result." · other nervous rookie. hits and an RBI in his first an attempt to spark the offense. 
And that was just the start of Pickering's opposite-field Then he went out and pitched major league start, helping the McPherson made his major the party. The Twins donned drive off Jorge Sosa (4-5) put like a real pro. Anaheim Angels gain ground in league debut on Sept. 10. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at rhe Noue Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr ro edir all classifieds for con rene wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
LOVE KIDS!! Professional Mom needs help picking up children from two area Catholic schools close to ND & SMC Mon-Fri. Wonderful girls and good money for very little time involved! We would love to hear from you I Call Karen Stonehill at 272-5013. 
Looking for a playful, kind, and responsible person for occasional babysitting of my 2 children (7 and 3yrs) Call Jill at 288-7118. 

Nanny Needed From 9/27-10/1 7 am to 5:30 pm in Granger for 2 kids, ages 4 and 7. One person all day or split part time. Non-smoker, willing to transport kids a must. 
Contact Jen 674-9876. 
FoR SALE 
90 Honda Civic DX 4DR, 94K, great condition, $1700 OBO (574)289­0811 

FoR RENT 
Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential (Jamison) condo 1 0/26/04-5/05 call Mary Anne Benedict 607-723-7363 


TICKETS 

BUY/SELL FOOTBALL TIX PLEASE CHECK MY PRICES 273­3911 
For Sale: ND football tix. Good 
prices. 232-0964. For Sale: ND football tix. Good prices. 232-0964. 
Wanted: ND football tix. Top$$$ 251-1570. ND ltball tix bought & sold a.m. 
232-2378 p.m. 288-2726 JACK, THE OBSERVER DRIVER, 
NEEDS 2 OR 3 TIX FOR ANY ND FOOTBALL GAME. CALL 674-6593. 
Need BC GA tix. Will be used not 
resold. 269-684-6102. 
Need BC GA tix. Will be used not 
resold. 269-684-6102. 


PERSONAL 

Spring Break 2005 with STS, Americas #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800­648-4849 www.ststravel.com. 
Need one BC ticket Call (574) 243-9636 
Four points. Two point lead so far. 
How does that taste? 
Come to the Circle K General meet­ing. Sundays at 5 p.m. at Hesburgh Auditorium. 
Come on Braves. This is our year. 
Bring it back, NHL. 
My fantasy football team (which sadly cannot be named in the inter· est of another campus p~blication) rocks. 

~---------­
--------------------------------~~----~-------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 15 
NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Chicago splits doubleheader against Florida 

Cubs win game one, remain half-game back of the Giants 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -The Chicago Cubs' 24-hour visit to Miami included a brief stay atop the NL wild­card standings. Then they lost their lead because they couldn't beat David Weathers. 
The journeyman right-hander, making his first start in six years. limited Chicago to two hits and one run in five innings, and the Florida Marlins won 5­2 for a split of their double­header Monday. 
Mark Prior allowed just five hits in 7 2-3 innings and out­pitched Carl Pavano in the opener to help the Cubs win 5­1. 
With the victory in Game 1, Chicago climbed one percent­age point ahead of San Francisco in the wild-card race. But the Cubs ended the day where they started: a half-game behind the idle Giants. 
"We've been knocking on first place for a while," Chicago manager Dusty Baker said. "We'll keep knocking until we kick the door in." 
The Marlins, who had hoped to gain ground with a sweep, instead remained 4 1/2 games behind San Francisco. The defending World Series champi­ons have no games left against the four teams ahead of them. 

"Time's running out on us," manager Jack McKeon said. "Maybe it's not going to happen. But as long as we've got the least bit of life, we'll give it a run." 
Weathers (7 -7) showed the Marlins that anything is possi­ble. Pitching for his third team this season, he came into the game 0-4 lifetime against the Cubs with an 11.44 ERA. But he earned a standing ovation from fans behind the Florida dugout when he walked off the mound after the fifth with a 5-1 lead. 
"It felt good to go out there and do something to help, instead of sitting around collect­ing a free check," Weathers said. 
Rudy Seanez pitched out of a jam in the sixth, and Guillermo Mota and Armando Benitez completed the five-hitter. Benitez worked the ninth for his 44th save, a career high and the most in the NL. 
Florida ri"ght fielder Juan Encarnacion helped out his closer in the ninth with a leap­ing catch to rob pinch-hitter Todd Walker of a two-run homer. 
"I hate to say you'd almost rather strike out," Walker said. "But that was disappointing." 
Damion Easley had a three­run homer and an RBI double off Matt Clement (9-13). Michael Barrett hit his 16th home run for the Cubs, who were elimi­nated Saturday from the NL 

TH~ TRUTH IS... -----~ 
I~ OUR D~LIV~RY DRIV~RS 



W~R~ ANY ~AST~R 
TH~Y'D HRV~ 



NUMR~RS 
ON TH~ SID~S 0~ TH~IR CARS. 
1983 THE TRUTIIIS. M 00 THINGS QUICKEl THIIN nu; OTHm GUYS. AND IF YOU'RE HUNGRY. TIUIT'S AGOOD THING TO KNOW. 
L~T TH~ TRUTH 9~ KNOWN. 
Central race -even though St. Louis manager Tony La Russa refused to permit a celebration or acknowledge his team clinched the division. 
St. Louis has 97 victories. and the best Chicago can do is 96. 
The Cubs and Marlins would have preferred Monday off as originally scheduled. For the Cubs, the split came during a stretch of four road games in three days in three cities. Miami was added to the itinerary to make up two games postponed during Labor Day weekend because of Hurricane Frances. 
The doubleheader was the third for the Marlins in 11 days, and the grind has depleted their pitching while all but dashing their hopes of returning to the playoffs. 
"The last three weeks have been tough," McKeon said. "To go through what we did, no other club in this league has done it. And yet to be still bat­tling and fighting and thinking we've got a chance, it's a credit to the guys." • 
Announced attendance was 37,412, but it was a late-arriv­ing crowd. Game 1 began in front of about 5,000 spectators, many of them blue-clad fans who did plenty of cheering as Chicago took a 4-1 lead with three runs in the second against Pavano (17-7). 
Corey Patterson's two-run double put the Cubs ahead to stay, and Prior (6-4) beat Florida for the second time in 10 days. He threw a season­high 129 pitches on an 84­degree afternoon. 
''I'm finally hitting my stride and pitching up to my capabili­ty," said Prior, who missed the first two months of the season with a sore right Achilles' ten­don. "It was fun to go out there and get it done." 
Prior gave up a run in the first but didn't allow a runner to reach third after that. He struck out nine and walked one. 
"A very impressive perform­ance," Baker said. "That's what you like to see this time of year in the stretch run." 
Baker held Sammy Sosa and two other regulars out of the lineup in the opener, but the Cubs still got 16 hits. Pavano gave up five runs and 12 hits in six innings and lost his second start in a row. 
"I guess he's entitled to a cou­ple of mediocre ones," McKeon said. 
In the. nightcap, Easley's first­inning homer caromed off the screen attached to the left-field foul pole. 
"You don't like to make it that close, but you take it," he said. 
Florida made it 5-1 in the third on RBI doubles from Miguel Cabrera and Easley, ending Clement's afternoon after just 2 1-3 innings. The right-hander is 2-9 in his past 17 starts. Cardinals 7, Brewers 4 
The St. Louis Cardinals broke out the champagne and sprayed 

n_ 
THE CUSHWA CENTER FOR 
THE STUDY OF AMERICAN CATHOLICISM
IJF presents 
"Tales from the Crypt: The Secret Life of American Catholic Writing" 
Paul Elie 
Wednesday, September 22, 2004 
4:00 p.m.l41 DeBartolo Hall 
r----------------------.
---------~­


OUND THE NATION 
Page 16 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SER.VtCES Tuesday, September 21,2004 

NFL 
team 
1 Hoftll Carnllaa 2 NOTR~ OAME 
3 Wa!llllngton 
4 Vlrgtnla ll Pf1t11'1 StalfJ 
6 ~rtland 1 Tennf;t$8& 8 Kansas 9 florida 10 Clemson 11 Illinois 12 Pepperdlne 13 West VIrginia 14 california Hi Texa11 A&M 1& Wisconsin 17 PtJn~\llJJo 
'"" 18 florida Stata "" 19 Yalll 
20 ·UClA 
21 Southern Methodist 
22 Ohlo Stale 
23 Texas 24 Rutgers 25 Michigan 
····team 
New EnglandNY Jets 81lftalo Miami 
team Seallle 
st. Lnllla · 
At1zona Sart fran. 

around the dial 
BASEBALL Twins at White Sox 7:05p.m., FSN 
POKER World Series of Poker 8:10p.m. ESPN 


AP Philadelphia Eagles receiver Terrell Owens dives past Minnesota Vikings cornerback Antoine Winfield at the end of a 45-yard touchdown In the fourth quarter of the Eagles' 27-16 victory. 

McNabb, Eagles dispose of VIkings 27-16 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA­Donovan McNabb didn't need much of Terrell Owens on Monday night. Daunte Culpepper could have used a lot more of Randy Moss. 
In a strange game featur­ing lots of long drives but not many points, the Philadelphia Eagles rode the running and passing of McNabb past the Minnesota Vikings 27-16. Of the four big offensive stars, only McNabb glit­tered, and Culpepper hurt his team badly with a fum­ble inside the Philadelphia 1-yard line. 
The Eagles' 2-0 start at the Line is a switch from last season, when they lost the first two games at their new home. The Vikings (1­
1) have lost 16 of their last 17 outdoor regular-season games. 
Neither defense was par­ticularly responsible for the lack of scoring. Time­consuming marches ate up chunks of yards, but the end zone was elusive for Minnesota until 3 1/2 min­utes were left -even though the Vikings had the ball for nearly 38 minutes. 
That was not problematic for Philadelphia because McNabb made several big plays in throwing for 245 yards. He passed for two scores, including the clincher to Owens for 45 yards with 7:40 remaining, and ran for another. 
Otherwise, Owens, who had three TD receptions in his Eagles debut last week, didn't have a big impact with four catches for 79 yards. 
Moss, whose costly offen­sive pass interference penalty was his most note­worthy play until a 4-yard TD catch in the final min­utes, did have eight recep­tions for 69 yards. 
But the Vikings kept bog­ging down in or near the red zone, in part because Moss was blanketed and 
Culpepper was sacked four times. Culpepper finished 37­for-47 for 343 yards. 
Morten Andersen, at 44 the league's oldest player, appeared in his 340th NIL game, tying George Blanda's record. The 23­year veteran's left leg looked plenty strong as he made three field goals, including a 42-yarder to open the scoring. But he was short on a 44-yarder with 9:14 remaining. 
Brian Westbrook domi­nated the Eagles' 72-yard march to a 7-3 lead on their first series. He was involved in six of the 11 plays, gaining 44 yards. 
IN BRIEF 

Former Irish back injures
shoulder 

IRVING, Texas -Cowboys rookie running back Julius Jones broke his left shoulder and is expected to be out about two months. 
Coach Bill Parcells said Monday he didn't know exactly when Jones, a second-round pick from Notre Dame, was injured during a 19-12 win over Cleveland on Sunday. 
"I'm sad to lose the player, sorry for him," Parcells said. 
Parcells said Jones probably will not need surgery. But if Jones is like­ly to he out more than half the sea­son, the team might put him on injured reserve. 
For now, Parcells said the team probably won't sign another running back. Eddie George and ReShard Lee are expected to get more carries in place of Jones. 
Jones missed the opener because of a rib injury during the preseason. Richie Anderson was inactive against Cleveland because of a knee prob­lem, hut Parcells expected him to return to practice this week. Wolfmeyer acquitted in 
Danton liit man case 
EAST ST. LOUIS, Ill. -A young Missouri woman was acquitted Monday of charges she helped for­mer NHL player Mike Danton hire a hit man in a failed plot to kill his agent. 
The federal jury deliberated more than three hours before clearing 19­year-old Katie Wolfmeyer in the scheme, which unraveled in April when the man recruited for the hit notified authorities. 
"I knew all along that I was inno­cent," the young woman said, reiter­ating her claim that the FBI had twisted her story and used it against her. ''I'm glad the jury saw through all that." 
Prosecutors, who had argued that jurors should look past Wolfmeyer's sobbing testimony and her claims the FBI was plotting against her, did not take questions after the verdict but 
released a statement. De La Hoya faces uncertain 
future after knockout loss 
LAS VEGAS -Oscar De La Iloya predicted before he met Bernard Hopkins that the fight would define his career, and sadly it might. 
Knocked out by a punch to the liver, De La Hoya must deal with the fact he has come up short in some of his biggest fights. 
De La Hoya made at least $30 mil­lion to fight Hopkins, but the ques­tions afterward weren't about money. He has plenty of that, but he might be nearing the end of a once brilliant career. 
"I really can't answer that now," De La Hoya said. "You know us fight­ers have a love-hate relationship with boxing." 
Hopkins seems to have a much bet­ter future ahead, after doing nothing but win hut gettting little out of it until De La Hoya handed him a $10 million payday that he didn't have to work that hard to earn. 
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NFL 


Winslow, McAllister, Maddox among injured 

Associated Press McAllister was injured on his and did not return. 
third carry in the Saints' 30-27 "You just deal with it," said 
The rookie season of victory over the San Francisco Heap, who hasn't missed a Cleveland Browns tight end 49ers. Defensive tackle Bryant game since his rookie season in Kellen Winslow Jr. may have Young grabbed McAllister's 2001. "You have to make sure ended after just two games. ankle and the pain was immedi­the other guys know what's 
The first-round draft pick is ate, causing McAllister to drop going on and make sure they 
among several players who will the football. can step up." be sidelined for a few weeks, or "I felt it pop," said McAllister, Pittsburgh Steelers quarter­more, as a result of injuries in who set franchise records in back Tommy Maddox will be Sunday's games. Others include 2003 for yards from scrimmage out at least six weeks with a 
New Orleans Saints running (2,157) and rushing yards torn ligament and tendon dam­back Deuce McAllister and (1,641). "That's why I dropped age in his right elbow, an injury Baltimore Ravens tight end the ball." that at least temporarily makes Todd Heap, both of whom were Heap, a two-time Pro Bowl rookie Ben Roethlisberger the knocked out of games with a selection, will miss two to four starter. sprained ankle. weeks with a sprained right Maddox was injured in the 
The Browns said Winslow will ankle. Heap led the Ravens in third quarter of the loss in miss at least two months with a receptions in each of the past Baltimore. Coach Bill Cowher broken right leg, and that they two seasons and has a team­thought Maddox might need might keep him out for the rest high 12 catches this year. The season-ending reconstructive 
of the season. Winslow was injury occurred late in the sec­surgery, but team doctors said injured trying to recover an ond quarter of the Ravens' 30-
an operation isn't necessary. onside kick late in Sunday's 19-13 victory over the Pittsburgh 12 loss at Dallas. Steelers. 
Winslow is scheduled for sur­"It's huge," coach Brian gery Tuesday and might need Billick said Monday. "He's your 
Jruttm Pizza acceptittg reservatiotts hot~te screws and plates inserted in No. 1 target, your No. 1 receiv­the leg, Browns trainer Mike er." 
·gat~te .weekettds. Colello said Monday. The team Heap was blocking downfield expects Winslow to make a full when his right ankle was rolled recovery in eight to 10 weeks, over by Pittsburgh linebacker but coach Butch Davis said the James Farrior. Heap then stum­
For Rarties of 2 to 1 0 0' ·· 
team has considered placing bled back to the line of scrim­him on injured reserve. mage and lined up for another 
Please call288-33:~o to book your table
McAllister, who had his foot in play. a heavy orthopedic boot Quarterback Kyle Boller Monday, said he thought he'd motioned that was going to be able to play soon -maybe spike the ball, and did so as even this coming weekend. But Steelers linebacker Joey Porter coach Jim Haslett said the shoved Heap backward. Unable Saints' top rusher is expected to to lift himself from the turf. be out four to five weeks. Heap was helped off the field 





Congregation of Holy Cross 
. 

6th annual If God is calling you • • • CORBY NIGHT Join us. Think you might have a vocation? Join the Holy Cross community at Notre Dame for an hour of prayer, pizza, and informal discussion. Tuesday, Sept. 21, 8:45pm at Corby Hall. Fr. Dan Parrish, C.S.C., ordained April 17, 2004. www.nd.edu/,....,vocation  

-------------------~----:-.---------------~ ---~· ----­page 18 Tuesday, September 21, 2004 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
FOOTBALL 

Washington hopes to improve on 0-2 start 
By PAT LEONARD 
Associate Sports Editor 
Keith Gilbertson did not script 
the season to begin this way. 
The Washington Huskies' 
head coach has started his sec­
ond season 0-2 after early 
home losses to unranked 
teams. 
Fresno State erupted in a 21­
point fourth quarter to take 
Washington's opener at Husky 
Stadium, 35-16, and UClA run­
ning back Maurice Drew cut up 
the Huskies' defense for a 
five touchdowns in a 37-31 
Bruins win Saturday. 
"(Saturday was a] terrible 
struggle," Gilbertson said. "We 
have a lot of concerns with 
what happened to our defense. 
On several occasions you'll see 
we'll run around a scheme 
when we're supposed to take 
them on." 
Drew ran for touchdowns of 
47, 62, 58,15 and 37 yards. 
"There's also the cases where 
[the UCLA offensive linemen! 
grabbed us and threw us on the 
ground," Gilbertson said. "If 
you look at the tape of the 
game, we have a lot of guys on 
the ground." 
Gilbertson was disappointed with every aspect of his team's defensive effort against UCLA. lie said players who made good tackles often had missed their original assignment and were out of position. 
But there is not a shortage of 
bright spots for the Huskies. 
"I think the offense played better," Gilbertson said. "We ran it pretty consistently ... we made some good decisions." 
Kenny James rushed 27 times for 133 yards, and Washington finished with 219 total rushing yards. But quarterback Casey Paus made the biggest differ­ence, going 13-of-28 for 200 yards and two touchdowns. 
"One thing I was pleased with was we did not turn the ball over," Gilbertson said. 
Paus threw three intercep­tions against Fresno State. The Bulldogs returned two of those interceptions -and a fourth quarter fumble -for touch­downs. But Paus played well enough against UCLA-putting up 24 first quarter points -to stay in Gilbertson's good graces. 
"Casey will get 75 to 80 per­cent of the snaps this week and 80 to 90 percent of those snaps will come with the first-team offense," Gilbertson said. 
The last two Husky teams to start 0-2 rebounded to have winning seasons and appear in bowls. But a 2004 turnaround becomes harder when the first road game takes a team to Notre Dame Stadium. 
"If you were 2-0, it'd be tough to go in there," Gilbertson said. "We certainly have a lot of respect for the traditions and game and atmosphere at Notre Dame. It's ... been a tough place to play for generations. 
"Now you've still got to play the game ... against a good team. And once all that settles down, it's our team versus their team between the stripes. But of course there's a special uniqueness about playing at Notre Dame ... I mean, come on, it's one of the great places in all of college football." 
Last season, Washington trav­eled to Ohio State and California for its two biggest road games. The Huskies lost in Columbus to Ohio State, 28-9, and California, 54-7. 

"We've had some tough road trips," Gilbertson said. "We've been to some landmark places. It would be nice to win one of those games." 
Contact Pat Leonard at p1eona.rd@nd.edu 

We were named one of Fortune® magazine's "100 Best Companies To Work For." And you can bet it wasn't because of the free coffee. 
Job perks are great. And at Ernst & Young we happen to think the most important ones are those that help our employees grow. That's why we've given them access to some of the best
FORTUNE" professional development programs in the country. As well as the opportunity to work on some
100 BEST 

COMPANIES ;g of the most prestigious brands in the world. In turn, Fortune magazine recognized us as one of TO WORK FOR~ 
the "100 Best Companies To Work For" six years in a row. So if you're looking for agreat place to work, look for us on campus. Maybe we can grab acup of coffee. ey.comjusjcareers 

Tuesday, September 21, 2004 

The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S INTERHALL GOLD 
Alumni defeats Keough on game's final play 
Keenan outlasts Stanford after Griffins miss extra point, Klein scores a touchdown to lead Morrissey over O'Neill 
In a sloppy first half, Stanford managed to break out to an early 6-0 advantage after forc­ing a turnover deep in Keenan territory. 
Starting from its own 15 because of a clipping penalty, the Knights gave Stanford prime field position when defensive line­terback Matt Hughie said, "but they wore down our defense toward the end." 
Morrissey came into the game as the prohibitive favorite, com­ing off an undefeated regular season in 2003. The Angry Mob, who went 1-3 last fall, unveiled new offensive and defensive 
The scoring began early in
By KEVIN BRENNAN, KEN 

the second quarter after a key
FOWLER and CHRIS special teams miscue.

KHOREY 

Alumni returner Willie D. 
Sports Writers 

Williams fielded a punt on his own 15-yard line and fumbled 
Brent Locey saved his best for after taking a hard 
last. hit from a Keough After struggling all game, the defender. The found McGettigan for the amaz­ing touchdown. 
While thrilled with the victory, Alumni knows that it must play better offensively to remain competitive. The Dawgs have a bye this week and will face O'Neill in two
"Hopefully this 
Alumni freshman quarterback Kangaroos recov­weeks. hit receiver Ryan "King" ered, but their extra week of "Hopefully, this McGettigan for a 34-yard score offense failed to put practice will help extra week of on the final play to give Alumni the ball in the end­practice will a 6-3 victory over Keough. zone. On fourth us. help us," The dramatic game-winner down, kicker Nick Remen said. ended a day of offensive frus­Dobbertin was suc­A.J. Remen "We need less tration for Locey and the cessful on a 32-yard predictable play 
Alumni captain 
man Eddie Medrick beat the pass pro­tection, sacked  "Eric [Laumann] did a great job to  schemes, with varying degrees of success.  
starting quarterback  keep rolling out  The  wing-T,  
Pat Downey and forced a fumble.  until I finally got ,  which includes many fakes and  
Stanford's  Vin  open.  misdirection,  
Monaco then fell on  had early suc­ 
the  ball  on  the  Dan Zenker  cess against an  
Keenan 6-yard line  Keenan wide receiver  initially-con­ 

to set up the scoring chance. 
On second down, Matt McQueary hooked up with Rudy Nkinzingabo for a six-yard touchdown pass, but the Griffins missed the extra point, and would later pay for that mistake. 
With fifty seconds left in the second quarter, Keenan's Eric Laumann returned a punt 56 yards for an apparent score, only to have the return called back for a clipping penalty. 
Even with the punt return called back, the Knights needed to drive just 28 yards for a potential game-tying touch­down. 
On second-and-10, Laumann completed a pass for 16 yards with 14 seconds left. The Knights rushed to the line of scrim­mage to stop the clock with a spike, fused Morrissey 
defense, but a 

poorly executed play lead to a key 15-yard loss in the fourth quarter. 
"That was a play we haven't practiced much," said Hughie, who completed three passes for 64 yards and a touchdown. "We needed something they hadn't seen." 
The Angry Mob's 5-3 defense, however, was not nearly as effective as Milligan hoped at defending the Manorites' pow­erful backfield. Morrissey rushed for 114 yards, including 86 on 15 carries by Klein. 
Klein, however, credits his offensive line. 
"I think it's our line," he said. "We had good play calling and our line was really holding it 
down." 
However, 
O'Neill's defense 
picked off quar­Dawgs. Alumni failed to move field goal attempt. the ball with any consistency. Early in the' fourth 

Amazingly, the touchdown quarter, Alumni had a chance to was Locey's first completion of tie the game, but Keough's Rob the game. Hallman blocked a 33-yard field 
Alumni captain AJ Remen goal try. attributed the troubles to the The Kangaroos recovered the excellent play of the Keough ball and returned it to the 43­defense. yard line and it looked as if the 
"Our offense struggled the Dawgs had squandered their entire game," Remen said. only scoring opportunity of the "They did a good job stopping day. the run on the inside. They However, the stingy Alumni 
were shutting down our passing lanes as well." 
The Kangaroo offense found it equally difficult to maneuver. partic­ularly through the air. 
"We couldn't get much going on offense," Keough quarterback and captain Brian Kusper said. "We 
defense held strong. Keough

"Our offense 
did not make a struggled the first down in the fourth quarter
entire game. They 
and with 25 sec­

did a good job 
onds to play, the 

stopping the run on Dawgs stopped the Kangaroos on
the inside. " 
a crucial third down, forcing a 

A.J. Remen 
punt. 

Alumni captain Williams made up for his earlier blunder by 
had some miscommunications returning the punt from his own on routes, and we struggled try­25 to the Keough 34-yard line. ing to run the ball to the out­1\vo plays later, with three sec­side." onds left on the clock, Locey 
calling and a 

more varied, consistent attack." Keenan 7, Stanford 6 
After nearly three quarters of failing to convert on every opportunity Stanford .gave them, Keenan finally made the Griffins pay with a 19-yard touchdown pass from Eric Laumann to wide receiver Dan Zenker. 
"It was a bootleg left, and the line gave me plenty of time. Danny beat the receiver in the front corner of the end-zone and made me look good," Laumann said. 
Zenker had equal praise for his quarterback. 
"I just ran a flag out to the left," he said. "Eric did a great job to keep rolling out until I finally got open." 
The touchdown pass came three plays after a pass inter­ference call on third-and-12 kept the seven-play, 52-yard drive alive. The extra point gave the Knights a 7-6 lead, which was ultimately the game's final score. 

but Laumann fell  "We had good play  terback  Pete  
receiving the snap, and the final sec­onds of the half  calling and our line was really  Sprietzer twice in the first half, however, keeping  
ticked off the clock.  holding it down. "  the Mob in the  
Zenker's touch­ game.  
down reception in the second half  Nick Klein  Morrissey opened the game  
helped  erase  his  Morrissey halfback  by driving deep  

International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 

~. 


INNSBRUCK 
Information Meeting 
With Professor Gernot Gurtler, Director ofthe Innsbruck Program 
teammates' earlier mistakes. 
A satisfied Downey compli­mented his teammates after the game for the play of Keenan's defense, which held Stanford to negative-15 yards offensively in the second half. 
"Giving up only twenty yards is a great day for the defense," he said. 
Morrissey 14, O'Neill 6 It almost went according to plan for the O'Neill Angry Mob. 
The game plan for captain Mike Milligan's squad was to play solid defense and stick with the Morrissey Manorites until the Mob's new wing-T offense broke a big play. 
That was exactly how the game went, until halfback Nick Klein and the Manorites ate the third quarter with a 16-play touchdown march to provide the final margin in a 14-6 victo­ry Sunday at Riehle Field South. 
"We did alright," O'Neill quar-


Tuesday, September 21, 2004 311 DEBARTOLO 
4:30-6:00 pm 
Applications Available wwwlnd.edul-intlstud 
Questions?-Weber.15@nd.edu Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2004 
into Mob territo­
ry, but an over­
thrown pass 

turned into the first interception for O'Neill. 
O'Neill had some quick suc­cess with outside runs by Brian Stein, as the Morrissey defense looked confused in the face of the fakes and reverses. 
"We get a lot of different looks out of the wing-T," Hughie said. "When the defense starts cheat­ing over in one direction, we'll flip it around and go the other way." 
However, the Mob couldn't turn the solid running into points, and a four-yard punt on their second possession trans­lated into a Morrissey touch­down. 
O'Neill closed within one early in the second half when Hughie completed a 48-yard pass down to the Morrissey 17-yard line and then connected for his team's only touchdown four plays later. 
Morrissey blocked the extra point and then killed the under­dog's momentum with the long drive in the third quarter. 
"We just settled in, found the holes and played our game, " fullback Steve Klein said of the third-quarter march. 
Contact Kevin Brennan, Ken Fowler and Chris Khorey at kbrenna4@nd.edu, kfowlerl@nd.edu and ckhorey@nd.edu 

______________~--------~------------------------------------~-------­
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 


WOMEN'S INTERHALL GOLD LEAGUE 

Defending champion Badin beats Lewis 
By MIKE TENNANT, BRAD 
WALLACE and KYLE CASSILY 
Sports Writers 
Defending champion Badin started the year off right Sunday afternoon, defeating Lewis 7-0 in a rematch of last year's championship game. 
The Bullfrogs scored the only points of the game early in the second half when quar­terback and senior captain Stephanie Heath connected with Lizzi Shappell for a 10­yard touchdown pass. lleath ran in the extra point herself, and that was all Badin would 

"In the first halfof
need. the half with The game was the first game you Welsh Family still a defensive on top, 6-0. The
always have lots of 
struggle from second half took a
jitters."
the start. as nei­drastically differ­ther team could ent course, how­get much going Stephanie Heath ever, as the on offense. Whirlwind pass­
Badin captain 
Badin tried a balanced run­ning and passing attack, but the Lewis defense led by line­backer and senior captain Sheila Dawes was solid as a wall. 
"In the first half of the first game you always have lots of jitters," Heath said. 
Lewis also had trouble on offense and failed to take advantage of a struggling Bullfrog offense. The Chicks played much of the first half in Badin territory but were not able to strike pay dirt. 
After starting just short of midfield, the Chicks offense, led by quarterback Meg Bustin, drove deep into Badin territory only to have a pass dropped in the end zone. Two plays later. Bustin threw an Pangborn Phoxes Sunday afternoon. The key to the Whirlwind victory proved to be their passing attack. espe­cially late in the game. 

The Whirlwinds got off to a great start early with Lauren Osterhus' 60-yard punt return registering the first score of the game. 
"I got some great blocking on my return. Right when I got the ball, my blockers cre­ated a huge hole and as soon as I was through I was wide open," Osterhus said. 
After a failed point-after­touchdown attempt, both 
teams' defenses 
took over. ending 
ing game came 
alive. 

With about nine minutes remaining, quarterback Melissa Sands capped a 60­yard Welsh Family drive with a 40-yard touchdown pass to Lauren Hoeck. 
"Melissa threw a p·erfect pass. She hit me on the run, and it was all easy from there," Hoeck explained. "I think we started finding holes in the Pangborn defense and our offense just started to click." 
Sands connected with Lauren Prease from eight yards in the corner of the end zone late in the game for the Whirlwinds' final score, jump­ing to a 19-0 lead over the Phoxes. The Welsh Family defense lived up to preseason 
expectations, shutting down the Pangborn offense throughout the game. . 
Captain Mary Prendergast was not surprised by the defensive dominance of her team. 
"This was a testament to all of our hard work," Prendergast said. "Our other captain, Daphne Zeringue, kept telling us to play like it was a 0-0 game, and that's what we did. We're just going to keep playing that way for the rest of the season." 
Though disappointed with the outcome of the game, Pangborn captain Katie Murray feels her team will benefit from the experience. 
"The first game of the sea­son is always a learning expe­rience," Murray said. "Today, we saw a lot of things that we did well and some things that we need to work on. We're going to work on those things in practice and be ready when our next game comes around." Lyons 26, Howard 0 
For the second year in a row the rector of Howard must ruefully wear the cos­tume of a lion. After Lyons beat the Ducks 26-0 Sunday, the costume must be worn, as tradition is honored. 

Every year a wager is made that the loser must wear the costume of the victorious dorm's mascot. Howard has come up on the short end yet again. continuing an overall seven-game losing streak that began last season. 
Lyons came into the game very prepared. The Lions had practiced consistently for over two weeks and were confident in the team's ability. 
Lyons captain Traci Kazmerski named her team's top priorities as working together, concentrating on teamwork and taking the game more seriously. It worked for the Lyons as the team won handily over the Howard Ducks. 
The Ducks may have taken a tough loss, but that doesn't diminishes their hopes for this upcoming season. 
Ducks captain Callie Whelan is looking to improve by sheer numbers, as double the num. her of players came out this year than the previous year. She is also glad to have an experienced core of players being complemented by a very athletic and fast freshman class. 
The Ducks take on Badin Thursday at 8 p.m. on Riehle West Field. 
The Lyons face Pangborn Thursday at 9 p.m. on Riehle West Field as well. 
Contact Mike Tennant, Brad Wallace and Kyle Cassily at mtennant@nd.edu, bwallace@nd.edu and kcassily@nd.edu 

Finish 
continued from page 24 
put more points on the board," Irish quarterback Brady Quinn said. "When we got in the red zone costly turnovers just kind of hurt 
us," 
Even with the somewhat ugly win, it's a lot easier than talking after a disappointing result. 
"It's a lot better to clean up some mistakes after a win than after a loss," tight end Anthony Fasano said. 
Regardless of how they 


closed out the game, the Irish got the job done on the road, at night against a team that has usually dominated them over the past seven years. 
When it's broken down like that, a win is good enough. 
"Absolutely, we felt like we could have finished it earlier in the game rather than at the end. But a win's a win," run­ning back Ryan Grant said. "We're not satisfied with the way we win because of the way we know we didn't play our style of ball, but we're excited we got the 'W. "' 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


INfORMATtON M66T1N4S 
S:OOt>M 

~ ttAyes-tt6ALY 

Thursdatj, september:23 
or 

wed~AtS~Q!:1, septt*ber ~ 
interception, ending Lewis' best chance of the afternoon. 
"We came really ready to play," Dawes said afterward. "We just got a few bad breaks and couldn't finish things off." 
The Lewis pass rush that had held Badin and Heath at bay in the first half was nowhere to be found after halftime. The Bullfrogs marched 60 yards down the field on their first possession of the new half. thanks to some timely scrambling by Heath and a couple Lewis penalties. 
On fourth-and-goal from just inside the Lewis 20-yard line Badin drew a pass inter­ference call, resulting in the ball being placed inside the 10 along with a fresh set of downs for the Bullfrogs. Shortly after, Heath connected with Shappell for what would be the winning score. 
"In the second half, we knew what we had to do; what adjustments we had to make," Heath said of her offense. 
The Badin defense made adjustments as well, and Bustin was not able to get the Lewis attack off the ground. 
Badin continues its season Thursday night at 8 p.m. against Howard on Riehle Field. 
Lewis' next game is also against the Ducks from Howard and is scheduled for Sunday at 5 p.m. on West Quad. Welsh Family 19, Pangborn 0 
Amidst a chorus of shrill cheers and songs, Welsh Family showed an impressive aptitude for pigskin power in their 19-0 win over the 

Offerin~J 
alfonlable 
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE 



Walsh confidence high before game with PW 
Excitingfreshman class prepared to lead McGlinn against Breen-Phillips, Fine Farley receiving corps ready to face PE 
"Our defense is looking By PETER CRACCHIOLO, strong as always, and we're MIKE LASKEY AND putting things back together on NATHAN DYE offense," she said. Sports Writers But in order to compete with 
Walsh, the team must organize Walsh has a game plan. itself offensively. The Wild Women are confi­The Weasels are 
dent their defense will carry uncertain of who them through the season. is starting at 
"We're pretty 
Coming off a 0-0 tie with quarterback of a fresh football Cavanaugh Sunday, Walsh has tonight and psyched about it. season. Following proven it can compete with the Nerlinger claims the lead of their
Our momentum is 
best. this to be one of counterparts on
really high." 
"Our defensive line was her main· con­the varsity squad, solid," Walsh captain Carrie cerns. a number of fresh­Campell said. "But, offensively, "I think it will Carrie Campbell man women are 
"We're pretty psyched about it," Campbell said. "Our momentum is really high." 
McGlinn vs. Breen-Phillips 
As Notre Dame students are 

well aware, introducing a team's new blood is one of the most exciting and important aspects 
season, hoping that a shift in tonight's game against strategy will help the Pasquerilla East is to get the Shamrocks move the ball more ball into the hands of their two effectively down the field. playmakers, Spokes and Duran. Meacham and co-captain Liz "They both are very potent 
Maher head up a McGlinn team that started aus­piciously last year before fading out as the season wore on. This year's team lost only two players from last season, and Meacham is optimistic that 
we need to put the ball in the be difficult ready to gear up . good things lie
Walsh captain
end zone." because our Both Cavanaugh and Walsh quarterback will 
faced a defensive stalemate be new," 
Sunday preventing either team Nerlinger said. 
to score. "And they have a very aggres­Having one game under its sive defensive line." belt, Walsh believes it has a One of Walsh's key defensive slight edge over Pasquerilla players is Katie Hesmond, who 
West. Since last  had two intercep­ 
weekend's game,  tions for Walsh on  
the team has had  Sunday.  
time to formulate a better offensive strategy. This has  'The plan is to score more. We  Despite the tie on Sunday, Campbell feels the  
given the team confidence in put­ting points on the  need to put the ball in the end zone."  Wild Women are ready for the Weasels.  
scoreboard.  "The offensive  
"The plan is to score more," Campbell said.  Carrie Campbell Walsh captain  line did a great job giving me some time in the  
"We need to put  back  for  the  
the ball in the end  rush," Campbell  
zone."  said.  

Despite opening its season Although there is no true against a slightly more experi­rivalry between the Weasels enced opponent, Pasquerilla and the Wild Women, every West believes it is up for the game is an important one. The challenge. According to captain Weasels are ready to start their Abby Nerlinger, one of the season on a winning note. team's strong points is its Likewise, Walsh is prepared for defense. the Purple Weasels' challenge. 
for their introduc-ahead. tion to Notre Dame "We need to live interhall football. up to our poten-Two teams looking· tial. We can beat 
to their freshmen for a boost any team out from last season include the there if we come 
"We've been having great looking practices. The girls have been great about getting the work done. Our defense really stepped up against Farley." 
• Jamie Feltault Breen-Phlllips captain 
squads from McGlinn and out to win," the co-captain 
Breen-Phillips, who square off tonight at 7 p.m. 
at  the  Riehle  "We have to  
Fields. McGlinn captain Bridget Meacham  combine the excitement ofthe  
has liked what she's seen from her newcomers so far.  younger players with the experience ofthe  
"I can't say enough about the  upperclassmen."  
entire freshman class," Meachem  Jamie Feltault  
said. "They have  Breen-Phllllps captain  
great promise for  
this season."  

said. 
Coming off of a 20-14 win over Farley on Sunday, the Breen-Phillips team heads into tonight's contest with added confi­dence and game experience. After falling in the first round of the play­offs a year ago, the Babe squad has its sights set on advancing far­
ther this season. Captain Jaimie 


In addition to an exciting Feltault believes that Breen­freshman class, McGlinn will Phillips has the tools this year look to its experienced group of to do just that. juniors to be a steadying force "We've been having great­on the defensive side of the looking practices," she said. ball. The team also has "The girls have retooled its offense since last been great about 
getting the work 

done. Our "You can definitely with something defense really special from the
quote me as
stepped up offense. 
against Farley." saying, 'For this While both 
As the freshmen season, I expect teams last year begin to learn the suffered through
nothing less 
team's system, forgettable sea­
than the
Feltault makes sons, Pasquerilla the squad's championship.'" East has gone approach clear. deep into the 
"We don't really playoffs before

Allison Ferber 
have one key and expects big

PE Captain 
player," Feltault things from this 
said. "It's more of a team mentality. We have to combine the excite­ment of the younger players with the experience and execu­tion of the upperclassmen." 
When Breen-Phillips and McGlinn take the field tonight for this early season battle, just how ready each squad's new­comers are may prove to be the difference in this matchup of ambitious teams. 
Farley vs. Pasquerllla East 
Jerry Rice and John Taylor. Lynn Swann and John Stallworth. Cris Carter and Randy Moss. Some of the great­est receiving combinations in football history, and the Finest
•~fo~&.o~ Meet~~s of Farley say that they have two names to add to the list, in 
·1 sophomore receiving tandemSl>M :1.2-' ~Ayes-IIEiAL-Y Megan Spokes and Diane 
Duran. Farley captain Angelina 
Zehrbach's game plan for 
wide receivers, with great hands, who can make plays under pres­sure," Zehrbach said. "When we put both of them on the field at the same time, one of them will be open." 
Pasquerilla East will do its best to mtn1m1ze the impact of Spokes and Duran by put­ting constant pressure on Farley junior 

quarterback Katie Popik. 
Pyro senior co-captain Allison Ferber expects defensive stal­warts Megan Wysocki and Kendra Simpson to hassle Popik throughout the whole game. 
Wysocki, the junior defensive lineman, is expected to anchor the line, while Simpson, the senior linebacker and co-cap­tain, will provide pressure from any number of defensive align­ments and attacks. 
While the Pasquerilla East defense is hoping to minimize Farley's twin terrors, Ferber remains confident their offense will take care of business as well. The Pyros boast an out­standing playmaker at wide receiver, in their self-pro­claimed "Gift from God," Caroline Nally. Not wanting to ruin the surprise, Ferber promises to come out big 
year's squad. 

The Pasquerilla East captain has even gone so far as to make a Joe Namath­esque prediction. 
"You can definitely quote me as saying, 'For this season, I expect nothing less than the championship,"' Ferber said. 
Not to be outdone, Farley's Zehrbach claims this year's team is the best she's seen in four years. Though Farley suf­fered a close defeat in its first game of the season, the Finest say that they have worked out the kinks. With two teams look­ing to bounce back from down years, the Finest and Pyros promise to put on quite a show. 
Contact Peter Cracchiolo, Mike Laskey and Nathan Dye at pcracchi@od.edu, mlaskey@nd.edu and ndye@nd.edu 
TIA.6S'):)Ay, S6':P I 6M~6R-:2.1.. 
OR. 


Write Sports Calll-4543 

Tuesday, September 21, 2004 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS 
Wo01ens 
continued from page 24 
tionable calls from the referees working against them. But Huffer docs not blame the final score on the refereeing. 
"Calls do not always go the way you want them to. but it happens to everyone," Huffer said. "Walsh came out ready to play and they had a great fight." 
According to the Wild Women, both the offense and defense bat­tled throughout the game. 
"Our defense was solid," Campbell said. "And our offensive line was fantastic." 
To begin the second half. the momentum continued for Walsh as an interception was made by Katie llesmond on the Cavanaugh 15-yard line. 
But the intensity quickly shifted to the Chaos as sophomore Brigette Sanchez sacked Campbell and gave Cavanaugh a chance to 

score with 10 minutes left. "Our defense was outstanding," Ruffer said. "They saved us." 
But the Cavanaugh offense could not take advantage of the opportunity and the game resulted in a tie. · 
Despite both teams failing to score, the fmal result did not rep­resent the impression Walsh left on the field. 
"They [Walsh] are a great team, they have come a long way," Ruffer said. "People underestimat­ed their ability and they shouldn't have." 
After struggling last season, Walsh is hoping its returning vet­erans will bring success for the team. 
"Our players are more mature and are fired up," Campbell said. "This game showed everyone we can play." Breell-Phllllps 20, Farley 14 
Sunday's North Quad matchup between Breen-Phillips and Farley proved to be an exciting season opener for both teams, with the Babes ultimately prevailing over touchdown of the game. Farley the Finest by a score of20-14. continued picking up the pace in 
The Babes came out strong in the second half. intercepting a the first half, scoring two touch­long pass thrown by the Breen­downs and successfully complet­Phillips quarterback. ing one two-point conversion. Throughout the Farley push, the Breen Phillips' excellent receivers Babes didn't back down. After displayed their vet­turning the ball over, eran prowess by they came back and
"We were
catching several gained ground on
underranked in 
10-yard throws their next possession and at least two the polls. , until they were first­50-yard passes and-goal. Breen­thrown by the Phillips then scored
Farley captain 
Babes' quarter­its third touchdown 
Angelina Zehrbach
back. of the game. They 
To add to their did not successfully success in the first half, the Babes complete their two-point conver­made two important interceptions sion, however, because the Farley taking them into halftime with a defense made an excellent play 14-0 lead. and sacked the Babes quarter­
The Farley coaches must have back. given a rousing halftime pep talk, Spokes came back to score because the Finest took the sec­Farley's second touchdown, clos­ond half by storm. ing the gap to six points. Farley 
The Finest began the second made one more interception half with a long punt return by before the close of the game, but sophomore Megan Spokes, as she they were unable to eke out that went on to score Farley's first last touchdown and Breen-Phillips won 20-14. 
"Even though we've got a lot of new people, they are all talented players," Babes coach Steve Mattingly said. "[Our] defense made several huge stops today, and I'm really looking forward to playing next week," 
The Breen-Phillips captain agreed with her coach, 
"We made some big offensive plays and had a bunch of great receivers," .Jaimie Feltault said. 
Although the favored Babes won, it was not without a fight. 
"We are still figuring ourselves out, this was the first game for half of the people on our team and it took us awhile to get started, but it's defmitely one of the best games we've played in four years," Farley captain Angelina Zehrbach said. "We were under-ranked in the preseason polls." 
Contact Dan TapetiHo and Kate Seryak at jtapetil@nd.edu and kseryak@nd.edu 


Mens 
continued from page 24 
"Since it was the first game, I'm fairly happy with the way we played," O'Keefe said. "We were missing a couple of guys, made a few mistakes, dropped a pitch ... it was the turnovers that really killed us." 
Sorin will look to do just that when they take on Zahm in two weeks while Fisher starts plan­ning for those same Rabid Bats this Sunday. Siegfried 13, Knott 10 
Two interhall football rivals came face-to-face Sunday with . Siegfried proving victorious by a score of 13-10 over its fellow Mod Quad dorm Knott. 
"We arc disappointed," Knott co-captain Joe McCarthy. "But we learned a lot about [our team). 
"We expected to score some more," Siegfried co-captain Kevin Phipps said. "We changed things for last week after the scrimmage that we didn't like." 
Knott was first to score with a field goal by Eric Wooldridge. Before halftime, Siegfried scored a touchdown. and the extra point attempt was good to make the score 7-3 in favor of the Hamblers. 
After halftime, Siegfried recovered a fumble by Knott. This led to a second touchdown for Siegfried, but Knott blocked the extra point attempt. 
Knott scored a touchdown to make it a three-point game, but Siegfried ultimately prevailed with the close win. 
"We had some bad penal­ties," Knott co-captain Jason Creek said. "We had some slop­py plays. But our offensive line did a great job" 
Siegfried had to deal with the loss of their safety, in the game. A member of the offensive line took on that job. 
"He blitzed and knocked out the mouth guard of their quar­terback," Siegfried co-captain John Hughes said. 
The game was well attended by fans of both teams. whose animosity toward each other produced a lively atmosphere. 
Siegfried was very excited to have won the game. "I've been here four years and 
we  haven't  lost  to  Knott,"  
Hughes said.  
The Juggerknotts  are  not  

about to let this game bring them down. "We can't beat ourselves up over the game," McCarthy said. 
Siegfried takes on Carroll Sunday while Knott will face with St Ed's. 

Zahm 20, St. Ed's 6 
The Stedsmen never knew 
what hit them. 
Zahm came out to open the game with a new wrinkle in its offensive scheme. and it worked like a charm as the Rabid Bats cruised to a 20-6 season open­ing win. 
That wrinkle was the veer option, which the Rabid Bats ran to perfection in the first half. 
Zahm won the opening toss and elected to receive, and promptly rammed the ball down the throat of the Stedsmen defense. The Rabid Bats began their drive with a pass, then stayed with the run game as they marched 65 yards in a little under 10 minutes to take the lead. 
The drive was capped off by a 5-yard option, in which the Stedsmen overcommitted to Zahm quarterback Sean Wieland. allowing Corey Brisee to scamper into the end zone untouched. 
St. Ed's went three-and-out on its first possession, which allowed Zahm to manufacture yet another long touchdown drive, this time capped off by a short pass from Wieland to Brisee. 
Fullback Eric Tarnowski scored the third Zahm touch­down. 
The second half did not bring much life to the Stedsrnen offense as St. Ed's continued to struggle to move the ball down­field. 
T-hrough the first three quar­ters of the game, the Rabid Bats had only played eight snaps on the defensive side of the ball. 
"The strength of our team this year is our offensive line," said Zahm captain Kyle Jones prior to the game. 
The Rabid Bats' front five proved its worth Sunday, open­ing huge holes for the Zahm tailbacks all day long. 
After Zahm opened up a 20-0 lead. the Stedsmen finally got on the board. The St. Ed's offense ripped off a huge 55­yard touchdown run. Although it appeared that the Stedsmen tailback was forced out of bounds at the five, officials cred­ited him with the score. 
Zahm looks to run its record to 2-0 Sunday against Fisher. St. Ed's looks to get on the right side of the win-loss column against Knott in a match up of 0­1 teams. 
Contact Thomas Stiles, Abby Richardson and Jordan Beltz at tstiles@nd.edu, arichaO 1 @saintmarys.edu and jbeltz@nd.edu 

Albion 
continued from page 24 

game. I feel good about how we're playing at ~he moment. 
"The team chemistry is improving with each game, and we're doing good things -we just need to stick the ball in the back of the net." 
Saint Mary's hopes it will not face similar problems scoring in today's game. Albion's offensive attack includes four girls in the top-15 goal scorers in the con­ference, and four in the top 15 for conference points. Despite the Belles' strong defense, it will be critical not to fall behind such a strong scoring team. 
"They'll come with a talented attack team. We're just going to have to defend well," Mackenzie said. "It'll definitely be a pivotal game for us in terms of our MIAA chances, even though it's only the fifth game." 
The Belles will rely on their strong defense, featuring the flat-back-four system, to keep the Albion scorers in check. Although the Belles have played fewer games than most of the other teams in the division, Saint Mary's currently has the fewest goals allowed in the con­ference. 
"They're still trying to get in the groove with the flat-back­four. but they're doing a great job making adjustments," Mackenzie said. "I wouldn't be using it unless I believed they could play it successfully." 
With the majority of their schedule comprised of confer­ence games, the Belles know how important it will be to take home a win against Albion. 
"Having such a heavy confer­ence schedule, every game mat­ters. We just hope we can put it together with all the talent we have," Mackenzie said. "We need to come out relaxed, and if we play our game, the wins and losses will take care of them­selves." 
Besides the conference impli­cations, Saint Mary's looks for­ward to its most competitive test of the. season thus far. 
"I hope we come fired up from the kickoff." Mackenzie said. "If you're a competitor. you can't wait to play them. We can't wait to see how we stack up, to see how we play against them. If we play our style of soccer, it should be a great game to watch." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy@nd.edu 

CAREER CHOICES? 
• 

The journry can lead to ama;zing discoveries 
For some, moving toward the unknown can cause uncertainty. Others embrace the adventure with open arms. That's why we take an individual approach in supporting your needs, instilling confidence through training, taking time to help evaluate the many options available and providing you with guidance to move in a new direction. At Wachovia, that's our commitment to your career. 
To learn more about Corporate and Investment Banking Analyst opportunities, please join us at 
The Morris Inn 

7:30_p.m., Wednesday, September 22 Refreshments will be served 


Ifyou are unable to attend, please review the positions we have posted with University Career Services. 
WACHOVIA SEcuRITIEs 
Uncommon Wisdom 

-~ ------~------~--­
Tuesday, September 21,2004 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 

.--------------------------tEr--------------------------t~.-------------------------~ 
& IS IT ETHICAL TO f1
THE COMPANY WILL 
I WOULDN'T KNOW

~ STEAL OUR LUNCH ~BE HOLDING A SERIES BECAUSE I HAVEN'T
~ HOUR AND PRETEND
OF BROWN BAG SEM­

11 
TAKEN THE SEMINAR.~ THAT THE ETHICS oINARS ON CORPORATE 

CHARLES SCHULZ

PEANUTS 



JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
PARVO 
rJ ()
1 
C2004 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
NARCK 
j

rJ r 
I KUBECT t

I I I IJ 
www.jumble.com 
IPSOME ± 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 


WHEN C.L.OUD5 FORME=D OVE:I< THE: OPE:N-AII< THE:ATER THE: AC.TOI< SAID--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 


WILLSHORTZ 

38 10-point type 39 First-born 40 Twaddle  51 Vigilant 52 Waterproof wool used for coats  (liturgical poem) 56 Old Italian coin so Groovy  
45 Small shot  53 Silt deposit  61 Twaddle  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Answer here: 

IT'S rI I r J"( I I I r 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's I Jumbles:  CROUP  BLOAT  FEUDAL  SURETY  
Answer:  What the florist faced when business  
improved -A "ROSY" FUTURE  

EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sophia Loren, Anne Meara, Dr. Joyce Brothers, Juan Pablo Montoya 
Happy Birthday: Have a clear picture in mind if you want to accomplish your goals. By letting someone or something cloud your vision, you will only waste valuable time this year. Count on yourself and you will succeed. Your numbers are 2, 7, 10, 19, 20,38 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your added spunk will create a challenge for any competition you face today. You will have everything going for you and should be able to get ahead in the business world. ***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your interest in what older relatives are dealing with will give you a sense of what you can do to protect yourself in the future. Retirement funds should be assessed.*** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): The emphasis will be on love, however, if you have designs on more than one person, you may face some problems. The more you do to protect the relationship you are most interested in, the better. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will come across interesting information through friends or relatives. Your work ethics and excellent skills will ensure that you end.up in the best position possible.*** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't be too quick to pay for others or be frivolous in what you buy today. You can make headway in the romance department and you shouldn't have to spend money to do so. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Not everyone will be helpful today. You have to rely on what you can handle yourself and try not to worry about what doesn't get done. Overspending will lead to added worry. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Keep everything out in the open and you will have a terrific d!!Y· You can enjoy the company of friends and love connections will blossom. Secret affairs must be avoided. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may feel like throwing in the towel and changing your direction, but don't do so because someone has promised you a better position. You will end up scrambling to find something else to do. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be fooled by someone who has been pumping you up and stroking your ego. Being overly confident will backfire, giving this person the edge. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan-19): The more you do to encourage others, the better. You can form friendships with people from different backgrounds. You will learn from the experience you have today. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Getting involved in something that perks your interest will bring favorable results. New partnerships can be formed and you may even find yourself moving in an altogether new direction. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't get caught in the middle of someone else's problem. This is not the time to offer help, but instead a time to protect yourself from whatever is going on around you. ** 
Birthday Baby: You are practical, critical and analytical, but will take a risk if you think it's worth it. You have diplomacy, integrity and all the things necessary to make it big. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
WA 
L K S A B E LIN 

AITISI 1 N 
E R T C L 1 0 1 

NIIITI S T 
E A L C A N 0 P E 

NIEIRI P 1 
U P T H E P A
C K 

CE­KES-L 
EM 0 N
~~A 

EN.BAWL I"E~~ E S S ~ .SERGEI 
~rs"s 
E~f-Jrr
P U T A 
F I R E U N D 
sf-J~I RODENT. 
o~lc;
"M"Er;;ro iWAL0
A P 
L 
L 0 

~­
T T H E L E A 
D 0 U 

T ICIUIB B Y H 0 L E 
-GE 
T 
0 

R T E ISIPIO TIO MAR 
H E 

A R S ll NIX S RENT 
E R N E S 

63 Lends a hand 64 Valuable rocks 65 Odist to a 
nightingale 66 McCartney played it in the Beatles 67 Top ratings 
DOWN 1 That certain "something" 2 It may be 
airtight 3 Verb with thou 4 Sturm 
Orang 5 Irish dialect 6 Continental 
divide? 7 Big ape 8 _capita 9 Unseat 
1oApportions 11 Inlets 12 Post-it 13 Ollie's partner in 
old comedy 18 Capital of 
Punjab province 22 Faithful 24 Staff leader? 25 First-year West 
Pointer 28 Melville 
romance 29 Before long 30 Snaillike 31 Passed with 
flying colors 32 Teaspoonful, maybe 



THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $1 00 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City ---"--------State _____ Zip_______ 
:-----------------....--..--__,....,..__,_
___--:----~---­

THE OBSERVER 










PORTS
Tuesday, September 21, 2004 

' 
I 
I 
FOOTBALL 
I I Finishing the job
t 
! I ~ Irish disappointed with letting Spartans back into game Saturday 
' 
~ 
By MATT LOZAR 

[ 
Sports Writer 

I Before, the talk was about 
just getting a win. Now it's about closing out the 1 I wins the right way. 
In the upset against Michigan, it wasn't a big topic when the See Also Wolverines 
"Washington
got within

I 
one score hopestoimprove 
I ... late in the on 0-2 start" game. But 
page 18 
I 
after building a 28-7 lead Saturday at Michigan State and 
allowing the Spartans to get 
I 
t within 28-17 whiln almost going in for another touchdown. the Irish know letting a team hang I around is flirting with disaster. 
I ''I'm not too excited about that. Obviously you would like to finish the game stronger than how you started. but we would like to start faster too," line­backer Derek Curry said. "We saw what we did wrong and try to get it corrected going into next week. I'm definitely not happy with the way we ended." It wasn't just the defense that permitted the Spartans to make
.:. 

the final score closer than the game should have been. The special teams allowed DeAndra Cobb to return a kickoff for a touchdown after the offense gave the Irish a 21-point lead, 
"That was very disappointing because we spent so much time on special teams for that to go out and happen it took a little bit out of the team," punt returner Carlyle Holiday said. "We are going to come back strong this week. We know spe­cial teams are a big part of the game and an area that can con­trol the game. 
"We've got a lot of work this week in trying to get big plays to happen for this team." 
Despite putting up a season­high 31 points, the offense was­n't immune from being critical of its performance. The unit committed three turnovers in Michigan State territory, includ­ing one at the goal line. 
Converting those opportuni­ties would have put the Spartans away earlier in the second half. Finding that con­sistency for 60 minutes will save the Irish' from having to make big plays later in the game, like the third-down con­versions the Irish made in the fourth quarter. 
"Offensively we felt we could have put them away or at least 
see FINISH/page 20 


page 24 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles get ready for Albion 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer 
On the road to the MIAA championship, the Belles are hoping that today's game against Albion will be remem­bered more as a speed bump than a roadblock. 
Although the Belles remain undefeated in MIM play with a record of 2-0-1. Albion presents the first significant challenge visiting Saint Mary's for today's 4 p.m. game. 
"They [Albion] will be a good competitor. then~·s no way around. it," coach Caryn Mackenzie said. "Without ques­tion. this is the toughest game 
to  date in conference.  Our  
women  know it and  are  pre­ 
pared for it."  

The Belles enter this game after numerous missed oppor­tunities prevented them from coming home with a victory in Saturday's game against Alma. 
"We played well on Saturday. even if we came away with a tie," Mackenzie said. "We did a lot of good things in the last 
see ALBION/page 22 

MEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Fisher opens with victory 
By THOMAS STILES, ABBY 
RJCHARDSON and JORDAN 
BELTZ 
Sports Writers 
Freshmen are not supposed to have an immediate impact on the outcomes of games. Apparently. Pat Gotebeski did not get that memo. 
Gotebeski, Fisher's freshman quarterback, helped lead the Green Wave to a 13-7 victory over Sorin Sunday by complet­ing 7 -of-11 passes for 90 yards and a touchdown. lie also ran for 15 yards, including anuther touchdown on a quarterback sneak from the 1-yard line. 

"lnterhall football was a lot more competitive than I thought," Gotebeski said. 
Both teams had some trouble getting their offenses going, as the defenses dominated during the entire first half and most of the second. 
Fisher c,mly accumulated 150 yards of total offense compared to 110 yards for Sorin. The run­ning game for each team was basically non-existent the entire game, with neither gaining more than 50 yards on the ground. 
Fisher's defense was in the face of Sorin quarterback Collin O'Keefe all game. registering two sacks along with consistent pressure which resulted in three Otter turnovers, including a piv­otal fumble ofT a botched pitch late in the game. That last turnover set up the game-win­ning play for Fisher. 
"The defensive line was really the key to the game for us," Fisher captain and running back Andrew Pfister said. "They real­ly stepped it up with the pres­sure." 
Gotebeski threw a 30-yard touchdown strike through dou­ble coverage to sophomore wide receiver Pat Donnelly, who used his height to pull down the pass as he fell into the end zone. The catch was especially satisfying for Donnelly. 
"It was great to redeem myself after a few drops," Donnelly said. "It felt great to make that play. Pat just kind of threw it up there for me." 
The Otters were relentless however, stopping Fisher for the rest of the game and giving their offense a few more chances as time wound down. 
Fisher tried to run out the clock with a few kneels, but was forced to punt with about 10 seconds left. The snap was botched, however, giving Sorin four seconds to heave the ball into the end zone from 40 yards away. But Fisher's secondary knocked the ball down to seal the victory. 
see MENS/page 22 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL BLUE LEAGUE 
Walsh, Cavanaugh play to a scoreless tie 
Preseason No. 1 has difficulty on offense against Wild Women 
By DAN TAPETILLO and "KATE SERYAK 
Sports Writers 
According to the preseason polls, Cavanaugh was destined to be a top contender for this year's championship game. This was questioned during last Sunday's 0­0 tie against Walsh. 
Heading into the game, the Chaos were ranked No. 1 in the polls and were firmly aware of last season's 21-0 domination against the Wild Women. 
But these memories were soon forgotten when rants and cheers came from the Walsh fans proving the Wild Women came ready to play. 

The Chaos did not have an answer for the Wild Women defense and had three missed opportunities to score a touch­down from the 10-yard line. ' Among these three attempts was a catch made by capt~n Jenny Nokes from quarterback Lisa Ruffer that was called out-of­bounds. 
"We had trouble executing offensively," Rufl'er said. "We've got to get our heads into it a lot more." 
Seniors Karla Bell and Amanda Borys led a Walsh defense that caused problems for the Chaos. 
In addition to Walsh's defense. Cavanaugh also had several ques­
see WOMENS/page 22 



WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
NFL
MEN'S INTERHALL 
NFL 

NATIONAL LEAGUE 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Kellen Winslow,

Defending champion 
Alumni defeated 
The Twins clinched

Behind the play of 
The Cubs split a dou-
Badin knocks off Lewis 
Tommy Maddox and
Keough 6-3 on a last-

Donovan McNabb, the 
bleheader with the 
the AL Central with an 

7-0 in a rematch of last 
Deuce McCallister all
second touchdown pass. 

Eagles defeat the 
Marlins in a matchup of 
8-2 victory over the 
suffered injuries during 

year's final game. 
Vikings 27-16. 
White Sox.
playoff hopefuls. 
the second week. 

page 20 
page 19 
page 17 

page 15 
page 14
page 16 






