
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Post-graduate service shapes lives 
Facing long-term choices and an uncertain economy, students opt to give back first 
By MARY KATE MALONE and 
JARRETT LANTZ 
Nt·w~ Wrircrs 

Whnn Mall Klosnr graduated from Notrn Damn in the spring of 2002, he was about to nmbark on a snrviee mission to llw depths of Birmingham, Ala. as a tmu:lwr for the Allianeo for Catholic Education Program. 
To onlooknrs. it may have 

snemed strange that a bright pre-med studont, already aeeopted into medical school, would delay further education to devoto two years of his young lili\ to service. 
But to Kloser, it was a ealling ho could not ignore. 
"Medicine is a wonderful thing, but it provides patchos and band-aids for diseases and inl'lictions," Kloser said. "I learned that education gets at the root of things because those who can bPcome well educated ean thrive." 
The program changed the course of Kloser's career. CurrPntly an assistant director in the ACE office at Notre Dame, Kloser works with ACE schools all over the country coordinat­ing retrnats and workshops for future mentors. 
For the past decade, approxi­mately 10 percent of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's seniors have applied to several service programs each year, ineluding tho Alliance for Catholic Education, the Jesuit Volunteer Corps, Teach for America, and the Peace Corp, among many others. Each of these programs allows graduates to take an active role in community service for a number of years. 
see SERVICE/page 6 

Saint Mary's cyber cafe opens for business 
Fair Trade Coffee sold at students' request 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 

News Wrirer 
Tho cyber cafP. located in the nf\W Saint Mary's Student Center opmwd Friday, attracting the appntites of many on campus. Fornwrly, the eafP. on campus was housed in the Haggar Collngn Cnnter, but that spacn will now bn eonvnrtnd to ollieos. 
Tlw nnw cal'<; oll'ors students. liu~ulty and visitors more options lin· dining on campus, as well as supporting Grounds for Change by snrving Fair Tr;tdn Collile. 
Thn eal'l\ rnnnu ineludes ntwugh variety to satisfy any tastn buds, ollilring pizzas, burg­ers. sandwidws, mPits. salads, dllSSPrL-;, daily spPrials and many otlwr foods. ThPnl arn also a varioty of bottlnd bevl\ntgns, spe­cialty •~oiTno drinks, smoothies and fountain drinks availahln, all of whirh ran lw paid for with studPnL-;' "mwH·h rnorwy." 
'"Tiw insidn of· tho nnw ram is gorgoous," said sophomoro Liz .Johnson. "I think it willlw usnful for a lot of things likn studying, nating or soeializing." 
see CAFE/page 8 

Faulty site prevents 
•


senior 
•


sign-ups 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Ediror 

Seniors who went to the senior elass Wnb sitn to sign up for Senior Wenk activities at 9 a.m. Tunsday were promptly met with frustration when tlwy eould not login or register for listed events, including a Chicago Cubs game, Cedar Point trip and formal dance. 
Senior dass president Darrell Scott said hn began receiving phone calls from friends around 9: 15 a.m. indi­cating they wnrn unable to purchase .tickots. 
"I called to the ol'liee imme­diately and organized a con­ference call with other mnm­bers of Senior Class Couneil," Scott said. "Aftnr discovering that tiHl system crash was more than likely the result of' tho University snrver unable to handle tho high demand all at once, we decided to smut out an e-mail with a sineern apology to the elass for tlw timn-waster and nxplainnd that wn will havo to posl.ponn the ticknting until NI> Markntplaee rnsolves the snrv­er situation." 
As of Tunsday afternoon, Ol'l'ien of Information Technology (OITI nmploynos said t.hny wnrn investigating what exactly caused thn SClrV­nr problem. 
Scott said several approach­es were lwing considered to renwdy tho situation. 
"Wn have throe dil'l'erent contingeney plans now that are boing vettod by OIT and the Senior Class Council for their l'oasibility," Seott said. 
see SENIORS/page 4 


Residence Life, students prepare for fall room selections 
Modifications in process include updated computer system, eased restrictions on switching dorms mid-year 
By JEN ROWUNG 
N~ws Wrircr 
As Notre Dame students chooso their rooms for the fall of 2005 this wnnk, they will face a room selection system that has rnenntly sustained changes. 
Onn major diiTnrence deals with dorm transfers. In the past, students were only per­mittfld to switch dorms before tlw fall semester if a resident of that particular dorm requested the individual be moved into their room. Now, in order to make the process more consistent and to give students a stronger voice in their living situation, tho Office of Hesidence Life and !lousing will allow students to transfer dorms any semester on their own accord. 
Director of Hesidnnce Life and Ilousing Jeffrey Shoup said many students wenl unaware that they could transfer dorms between semnsters without another 
student specifically requesting it. 
"It gave people more nexi­bility to make their own deci­sions," Shoup said. 
This year, there have been 128 hall transfer requests, Shoup said. lie predicts that all of the students will be placed in their desired dorms. Hesidnnce Life and Housing will have to regulate the num­ber of students moving into any one hall, because the University will not allow an exceeding percentage of 
upperclassmen in any particu­lar dorm, Shoup said. lie added he dons not think students seek a favorite dorm. 
"Some students want the experience of a living in an older dorm," Shoup said. "Others want the newer amenities." 
Another change to the room selection process was a new online aceeptanee and denial system for on-campus hous­ing. 
Shoup said he has found the new online housing contract to be more el'licinnt. In tlw past. many students waited until the last minutn to turn in tlwir contracts. A number of stu­dents returned the online eon­tract the same day they received it, Shoup said. 
"It gave us a clear indication early on about housing for next year," Shoup said. "With the nnw online systnm, Hesidnncde Life and Housing can bf-\tler prediet dorm occu­pation level and recognize 
see HOUSING/page 8 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Funny faculty 

In my three years as a college student, I have come to the conclu­sion the professor is just as impor­tant to the quality of the course as the subject matter itself. And, I am willing to argue, the weirder the Megan O'Neil professor, the more interesting 
Saint Mary's
the class. Quirky profes­

Editor 
sors are those who always have that strange yet fascinating tid bit of information to offer their stu­dents. They tell funny stories about their graduate school years. They get teary-eyed when they read poems by Pablo Neruda out loud. They stomp their feet and clap their hands to emphasize a point. 
This breed of professor rides a bicycle or walks to work when the weather allows. He (or she) may not own a television and may not eat meat. 
They are always pushing their students to extend their learning beyond the classroom by recom­mending wacky documentaries or alternative magazine articles. 
You can often identify a quirky professor by his appearance. A bow tie, a wrinkled shirt, enormous glasses, bushy eyebrows, a tweed coat and torn nylons are tell-tale signs. Add to this white chalk dust and a messy stack of papers the size of Mount Everest, and you have got yourself a positive identi­fication. 
In recent semesters I have begun to select my courses first on the basis of major requirements and then, with great success, on the eccentricjty of the instructor. 
Take the discovery of one of my favorite English professors as an example. Striding around campus, she Jogks as though she stepped right out of a volume of Chaucer. If you ask her to, she will promptly recite her favorite Canterbury Tale by heart, in middle English. 
Her enthrallment with English lit­erature is so profuse that her stu­dents cannot help but be drawn in. 
On a class trip to a performance of "The Merry Wives of Windsor," she laughed so hard you would have thought she was at a screen­ing of the latest Will Farrell movie. I ended up watching her bob up and down in her chair as much as I did the actors on stage which, I assure you, was equally entertain­ing. 
This type of quirkiness in a pro­fessor can make attending class enjoyable. Even if Greco-Roman Religions isn't your idea of a great Tuesday morning, at least you are guarenteed a dorky qualm about libations. Granted, the joke itself probably isn't very funny. But the sincerity of the professor is. 
A friend once told me my affec­tion for weird faculty stems from the fact that I myself will probably be one someday. 
My response? 
If only I should be so lucky. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, Aprill3, 2003 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WOULD YOU EVER DO A YEAR OF SERVICE AFTER GRADUATION? 

Trey Patrick Katie Fulmer Eric Morin Nina M'eyer Colleen Larsan Anna Kim 






sophomore Lyons  sophomore Howard  
&~No?,,  "Nope. I will be in London.··  

IN BRIEF 

Jack Welch, retired chairman of the board and chief executive offi­cer of General Electric Co., will lead a question-and-answer ses­sion and sign copies of his new book "Winning" at a presentation today at 4:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The event is free and open to the public. 
There will be a performance of the Tom Stoppard comedy "Arcadia" today at 7:30 p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. For tickets, call the DeBartolo box office at 631­2800. 
The Keough Institute for Irish Studies will host the American Conference for Irish Studies from Wenesday to Sunday. The five-day meeting, entitled "Ireland Beyond Borders," will include lectures by Seamus Deane, Keough professor of Irish studies at Notre Dame, and numerous other Irish writers. 
Author and scholar Adela Cortina will speak on the ethics of development and recognize the career achievements of Notre Dame economist Denis Goulet at 5 p.m. Thursday in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. Cortina will put forward a model of develop­ment ethics in a talk entitled "Development Ethics: A Road to Peace." 
Author Collen Kinder will give a book signing of her book "Delaying the Real World: A Twentysomething's Guide to Seeking Adventure" Thursday. It will begin at 4 p.m. in the ND Room in La Fortune. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 
HIGH 64 LOW 45 

HIGH LOW 

sophomore sophomore sophomore sophomore Knott Pangborn Siegfried Welsh Family 
"Yeah. rll do "If it will pay "IfI graduate. ,, "Ma che dici? Christmas in offmy student [What did you April every loans.'' say?]" 
, 
year. 


ERIC SALESfrhe Observer 
An "assassin" watched for his "victim" as part of an Asian America111 Association event In which students stalk and "kill" each other using water guns. 
OFFBEAT 

Prom-goers file complaint on own limo driver 
WINTER SPRINGS, Fla. ­Ten friends took a limousine to assure themselves a safe ride to their high school prom -but they ended up busting their own limo driv­er. 
Patrick Curley, a senior at Winter Springs High School, used his cell phone to call home Saturday and reported the driver had driven through stop signs, cut off other vehicles and veered onto the wrong side of the road. 
Robert Curley told his son to tell the driver to pull over, and when she stopped, the students grabbed the keys out of the ignition. 
"This is unbelievable." Robert Curley told Seminole County Sheriff's Office dis­patchers when he reported the incident. "We rented the limo so you're obviously going to be safe." · 
Locals watch pigs compete In athletic challenges 
SHANGHAI, China ­These pigs run, jump, and swim -almost anything but fly. Thousands of Shanghai residents have turned out to a city park to watch a herd of pigs compete in what organ­izers are calling the "Pig Olympics," the Shanghai Daily newspaper reported Tuesday. 
They run over hurdles, jump through hoops, dive and swim in shows twice a day, it said. 
The pigs, a midget species from Thailand, begin train­ing soon after birth and can begin performing profession­ally from about 1 year of age, Yang Ying, a manager with promoters Bluesea Broadway Co. Ltd. was quot­ed as saying. 
"These lovely pigs are of a special species that is good at sports by nature," Yang said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FlU DAY 


HIGH LOW 


.... 
Ill( (J 
0 

HIGH 60 HIGH 62 HIGH 63
.... 

LOW 35 LOW 36 LOW 40 
Wednesday, April 13, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ROTC members participate in Field Training Exercise 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
A.-.i~t:ull Nrws Editor 

Whiln sonH~ students were hanging out in bars this past Saturday night and napping in tlw sun on the quad Sunday al'tnrnoon, Army HOTC eadots wnrn training in tlw linld and hardly slnnping at all. 
This w1~nknnd. Army HOTC lwld tlwir sncond Field Training Hxnrdsn ( F'I'X) ol' tho ynar at Fort Custnr. Mieh. The nxordsos are lwld once pnr snmnstnr in order to givn eadt~L'i a ehanen at practi­cal applieation ol' the knowlndgn thny havn gained in labs and elassns throughout the year. 
Fighting Irish Battalion Executivo Ol'ficor Major Gary Masapollo said he feels an FTX providns a chance for studnnts ­nspndally inexpPrinncnd under­dassnwn -to practice the skills they arn learning in Notrn Darrw 's elassrooms and to gain undnrstanding that may not be nasily grasped indoors. 
"Mainly for us the purpose ol' the wnnkmul is to culminate the training that wn've done all y1~ar," lw said. "It's gn~at to be a Saint Mary's or Notm Dame stu­dnnt in HOTC. The problem is we only havn lab on Wmlnnsdays for two hours. For lhmn, Ithe FTX isl lhn practieal application of' what wo'vn done in lab all year long. Now it's a ehanee for th11m to go, 'Oh, now I got it, this is why wo do that."' 
Cadnt Battalion Commander Hyan Morton, a senior, said these wnnknnds an~ an important tool for training futuro Army offienrs. 
"I think overall being able to go to a tactical environment like the linld up in Fort Custer, Miehigan, is important [to cadets!." he said. "They gnt the feel of a real com­bat field, and !being in the lieldl really brings about a whole new level of intensity and a new lfwel of training to these cadets and I think overall it was a really good we11kend and experience." 

The wenkend's events included land navigation in both day and nighttime, basic rille marksman­ship, patrolling, battle drills and leadership courses, Cadet Civil All'airs OITicer Adrian Vnlez said. The cadets left Notre Dame and Saint Mary's at 4:30 a.m. Saturday and trained in separate units until around midnight. 
Morton described the division as "split operations, where the MSllls, which are the juniors, were split up from the MSis and MSIIs, the freshmen and sopho­mores." 
During the FTX. concentration was on the juniors, who Velez said "got a more focused per­spective than the Is and lis." 
Masapollo said this focus was important to prepare the junior cadets for this summer, when naeh will participate in a 32-day long Leadership Development Advance Course at Fort Lewis. 
"For the juniors. this was kind of like their last test drive, the last dmnce to do this one more time bnfore they go out to camp," he said. 
Masapollo described camp as "the culminating event" of the past three years for the MSllls, and said it is important for them to train beforehand in order to determine what they need to work on to succeed this summer. 

"Camp itself if a series of situa­tional events as well as exercises that demonstrate their leader­ship qualities," he said. "They're put in scenarios where they are the group leader. [Evaluatf>rs are asking) 'Do they have what it takes to be a leader of' men and women in the Army?' What we're looking for at the end of 32 days is an assessment of leader.­ship qualities. If they don't have the leadership qualities to be a platoon leader, we don't want them to be an officer." 
Morton said most juniors worry about this evaluation, but that the eadcts who went to the lield over the weekend will per­form well at camp as a result of the FTX. 
"llow they do [at camp) has a really large influence on what they do in the military, so the training this weekend really helped them," he said. "I think the most beneficial thing this weekend was giving all of tho juniors confidence in their abili­ties ... The morale is really high in the battalion right now because the training went so well this weekend, and the juniors are going to go to camp this summer and do really well." 
Junior cadet Shane Larson said he felt the weekend served its purpose. 
"I think I did learn a lot this weekend. There was a lot to be gained for the juniors for assess­ing when you are for eamp this summer, and it was also a groat opportunity for the Is and lis to !ill some of the leadership roles that are normally occupied by the Ills," he said. 
Masapollo said he felt the 
training "went very well" and was pleased with tho FTX over­all. 
"The big overarehing thing ­we trained all the major events and nobody died," hn joked. "Tho major things wn snt out to do, which was the marksmunship, leadership reaction course ... those all went to standard." 
Masapollo also said the eadets pnrformed wnll and felt they ben­efited from the weekend immnnsely. 
"It was a gmat learning curve," he said. "Some kids learned strnngths they didn't know thny had, and some learned weak­nesses they didn't know thny had. All of those will help them this summer." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 


2.005 


nostal 
.,. 

B~tUuf 'lfOWJ, q.~Saturday 4/16 Thursday 4/21 ....~16-~:ZJt. 
fisher regatta 11 am holy cross hill carnival 3pm south quad and west quad 
howard duck hunt 5pm Coleman-Morse comedian jim gaffigan 8pm legends knott on the knoll 4pm best of acoustiCafe 1Opm legends sub movie oceans 12 4:30pm 7pm DeBartolo 101 sub movie finding neverland 1Opm DeBartolo 101 
Sunday 4/17 Friday 4/22 
free laundry 11 am-6pm IaFortune laundry center recess noon west quad trees closing mass for father malloy 9pm joyce center unveiling of ~~the shirt" noon hammes notre dame bookstore followed by celebration 10:30pm battle of the bands 6pm legends Monday 4/18 sub movie finding neverland 8pm and 10:30pm DeBartolo l 01 panera delivery to classes Saturday 4/23 tye-dye t-shirt 11 :30am east south quad AnTostal concert 9pm legends 
speaker ken jennings 7:30pm DeBartolo 101 sub movie finding neverland 4:30pm and 7pm DeBartolo 101 
Tuesday 4/19 Sunday4j24 
panera delivery to classes cubs trip (tickets sold out) big wheel racing 11 :OOam north entrance dbrt quarter dog eating contest 12am IaFortune 

Wednesday 4/20 
big red chair & mini golf 2pm east south quad all~ aM ~~M<$3 
punt pass & kick qualifying contest 2pm fieldhouse mall 
~to. ~put 1M; tk duJent ~hocvui! 
late night grille 8pm north quad drive-in movie billy madison 9pm north quad 

~.nJ.eJu 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 13, 2005 

Seniors 
continued from page I 
"The final plan will be announced via email in the next two days, in which we will ensure that seniors are accommodated as much as possible." 
This year's registration process differed from that of past years, Scott said, due to both the Senior Class Council's idea to innovate the system and changes made by the University. 
"We decided back in February that a computer ticket sign up system would be the most efficient and fair way for the class to order tickets, compared to the old-fashioned way of waiting in a line for hours," Scott said. "Moreover, the University Business Operations Division created a new NO revenue-raising organization called ND Marketplace this past autumn and a rule that any student group that seeks to do e-commerce must use the NO-created profession­al service." 
The system created frus­tration in that all seniors were given the same start time and it was likely that the system couldn't handle all students at once. 
"I thought it was kind of strange that they just gave us all a starting time of 9:00," senior Stevie Didier said. "It seemed clearly obvious that the server would crash and they would have problems with that." 
Many seniors spent a good deal of time trying to register for activities before giving up. 
"I spent probably 30 min­utes trying to do it," Didier said. 
Seniors received an e­mail announcing that the system was not working properly. 
"I didn't try to do it until later, so I had checked the e-mail first that said that it crashed," senior Kathy Koranda said. "They just said they'll let us know." 
Word of system problems spread around the senior class quickly, causing some seniors to not even attempt to sign up for senior week activities. 
"I didn't try to register because I heard that my friends were unable to," senior Marianne Magjuka said. 
Despite the difficulties with the system, Scott remained optimistic. 
"Nonetheless, a computer glitch certainly will not affect the excitement of my classmates and the sched­uling of Senior Week," Scott said. "We will stay the course on the plan for the 2005 Senior Week events." 
Kate Antonacci con­tributed to this report. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

Middle eastern vvom.en recot:mt personal stories 


Christian, Muslim, Jew decry violence 
By JULIE BENDER 
News Writer 
"Three women, three faiths, one shared vision." 
That was the name of the lec­ture that brought three women from Jerusalem and its surround­ing areas to campus yesterday as part of the "Jerusalem Women Speak" tour established by the non-profit organization Partners For Peace. 
The women -a Muslim Palestinian, a Jewish Israeli and a Christian Palestinian -each took a turn speaking in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium, sharing their opinions and personal stories about the Arab-Israeli conflict. 
Though the women were of three different faiths and back­grounds, they all shared a similar outlook on the Arab-Israeli con­flict, citing the Israeli occupation as the primary reason for unrest in the region. The women; along with Partners For Peace, support a two-state resolution to the Arab-Israeli conflict through non­violent means. 
Aitemad Muhanna, a Muslim Palestinian from the Gaza Strip, was the first to speak, touching on the extreme poverty Palestinians in the Gaza Strip must face. 
"There are 3.8 million Palestinians living poor and deprived," Muhanna said. "There is limited mobility due to check points, children cannot go to school on a regular basis, and child labor is a resulting problem now." 
Muhanna shared personal sto­ries about her mother, who suf­fered from kidney disease for three years before her death because Israelis deemed the sick­ness not serious. She also spoke about her husband who had been imprisoned and tortured while Muhanna raised and supported their children. 
"Palestinian violence is a byproduct of Israeli occupation," said Muhanna, "We are looking for a peaceful resolution and wishing· Americans would under­stand the reality of the conflict and support Palestinians' self­determination." 
Nina Mayorek. a Jewish Israeli, spoke about her experiences as a peace activist with the women's human rights organization Checkpoint Watch, through which she monitors checkpoints in the West Bank. 
"I am doing it because I care deeply for my country," Mayorek said. "[The Israeli occupation] inflicts poverty on Palestinians and at the same time is destroy­ing Israel." 
Mayorek, who grew up in the Soviet Union and Poland, moved to Israel in 1968 to escape anti­Semitism from the Polish govern­ment. Out of respect for her grandparents and other family members killed in the Holocaust, she adamantly supports human rights causes and is active in sup­porting an end to the Israeli occu­pation, which she says is harming basic rights for Palestinians. 
Mayorek also condemned the Palestinian use of suicide attacks, which she said couldn't be justi­fied under any circumstances. 
"Israel has a right to protect its citizens [from these attacks]. but by going into the occupied lands, Israel is breeding terrorism, not stopping it," Mayorek said. "I believe supporting colonization hurts Israel as well as harming Palestinians." 
The last speaker was Diana Kattan, a Christian Palestinian who currently lives in East Jerusalem. Kattan spoke about her family's experiences living in Bethlehem and Jerusalem and also discussed personal experi­ences at cheekpoints which she described as being "one of the worst experiences in life -peo­ple die at theckpoints who can't get through to hospitals. women give birth there, you can wait for five minutes or hours on end." 
Kattan discussed the efreets of the wall being built throughout the West Bank and parts of Jerusalem, separating Palestinians from their jobs and their families, and she talked about her time working with both Israeli and Palestinian school children. 
"There is anger on both sides," she said, "The media also causes problems by dehumanizing the conflict and making generaliza­tions. I hope that we can form two states that live in peace with Jerusalem as the eapital. It should be a city for two nations and three religions." 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 


Date:  Apt·il 7, 2005  
Subject:  Tvvo New Concentrations in the Departrnent of Music  
Reiease date:  Friday, April 8, 2005  
Contact:  AnneMarie Davvson, Outreach Specialist, Departrn.ent of" Music  
(adavvson2@nd.edu; 574-631-6528)  

The .Departrnent of" .M.usic has reconfigured its undergt·aduate degree programs for those declaring the .major in .Music beginning in Fall 2005. Students vvill novv be able to select a 33­credit concentration in Music History and Theory or a 36-(:;redit concentration in Pert'onnance. (Students declaring the major prio1· to 2005-2006 vvill be subject to the requiretnents in etTect at the time they declared.) 
For those students interested in music history and theory, the departtnent vvill otTer a 33­credit concentration in Music History and Theory. in Vl'hich students vvill take classes vvith internationally recognized scholars. In n,usic history classes, students vvill explore the develop.tnent of tnusical !onus, styles and genres f"rotn the t.nedieval period through the tvventieth century. In music theory courses, students vvill begin vvith the fundan1entals of" tnusic and progress to hannonic and f"onnal analysis of n.1.usic front the Baroque period through the tvventieth centuiy. 
For those interested in developing their musical skills to a professional level, the 36­credit concentration in Perf"onnance provides the tools to do so. Building on vvork in the classroon,, students have the opportunity to study vvith acclairned perf"onners in the areas or cello, organ, piano, violin, and voice, atnong others. They vvill also enhance their study in performance by participating in vocal and instrun1.ental ensetnbles. 
A 33-credit concentration in Music and Culture is scheduled to be added in Fall 2006. Students vvill explore the diverse musical cultures of the vvorld and ethnotnusicology in an intet·disciplinaty sequence or courses. 
Students in all three concentrations vvill estabiish a solid musical foundation through a curriculum of core courses in history and theory. 
With the permission ofthe Departrnent, advanced students vvho \'llish to pursue a more intensive course of study n,ay enroll in the Honors Program, in vvhich they vvill complete an additional six credits of" requiren,ents. 
·The Departn,ent ot' Music and the Departtnent of" Theology co-administer a 15-credit Interdisciplinary Minor in Liturgical Music Ministry, ·with courses taught by faculty tnen,bers 
. 

Interdisciplinary 1'\-linor in Liturgical Music 1'\-linistry, vvith courses taught by raculty men,bers 
For tnore information visit the Departrnent of Music at Crowley Hall 
ww.:.):Y"Jid,~dJ,Ij:::::m.1J.S.LG 
or call (574) 631-621 I 





ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 13, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Iran prohibits death investigation 
Tf<:IIHAN, Iran -Iran on Tuesday rejectml a Canadian demand for an international fon~nsie team to examine the body of an Iranian-Canadian photojournalist who died in Iranian custody, a dndsion likely to fur­tlwr sour relations bntwnen the two coun­
trit~s. 
Canada is campaigning to detormine the r.ausn of death ol' Zahra Kaznrni, who died in 2003, snvnral days af'tnr being arrested for taking photos of a demonstration outside a Tehran prison. 
A spokesman for the Canadian Foreign Affairs Ministry eritidznd fran's dndsion, but said it was not surprising. 
"It's consistPnt with the pattern of eover-up and lies," SPimstion Thnberge said. Stophan llaehemi, Kazomi's son.·said lw was not surprised. 
"Tiwy are not ready to n~veal tlw truth and as+;umP responsibility for the murder," llaelwmi said from Montrnal. 
China seeks more than Japanese bid 
Jllii.IIN(;-In tlw strongest stand so far against the .laparwsn bid for a pnrmar111nt st~at on tlw U.N. Security Coundl, China's pn•minr told .Iapan on Tunsrlay to litc:n up to its World War II aggression lwfore aspiring to a bigger global rolo. 
It was tho strongest hint yet that China might nxerdse its veto as onn of tlw c~oundl's five permarwnt nwmbers to bloek .Japan. 
"Only a country that rnspects history, takes rnsponsihility for histor·y and wins ovnr tht~ trust of peoples in Asia and tho world at largt~ ran take gnHttt~r rosponsibilities in tlw international community," Premier Won .liahao said during an ol'lidal visit to India. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Church abuse files kept private 
LOS ;\N(;l\1,1\S -The California Supreme Court on Tunsday temporarily blocked the rdtmse of sumnmries of personnel Iiles of 117 prinsts aecusPd of molestation. 
Tho 'move carne just minutes before the doe­unwnts were to become public on the Los AngPies Arehdioense Wob site, publidy identi­fying for tlw first timn somn accused priests. 
Tlw filns also had bnen nxpeetnd to provide an unprncndnntnd look at how the arduliocese handlt~d suspectnd ehild molnsters-when the dwreh was told of alleged misconduct, who made the n~port and what aetion was taken. 
Thn state Supreme Court intnrvnned less than 15 minutns beforn thn files worn to bn n~tnased by sending the ease baek to the appeals court that had dnared the way for the matnrial to bn madn public, said Donald Steier, an at.tonwy who n~presnnts 26 of the priests. 
Tlw murt did not immediately givo a rt~ason fiu· its dndsion. 
Silicone implants ban remains 
WASIIINGTON -Thirtnen ynars after most silieonn-gel hrt~ast implants were banrwd. fednral lwallh advisers on Tuesday narrowly rejnetnd a manufadurnr's request to bring thnm bar.k to tho U.S. markBt, citing lingt~ring qtwstions about safety and dura­bility. 
lnanwd Corp. had argund that today's sili­conn implants arn less likely to break and leak than v1~rsions sold ynars ago. 
LOCAL NEWS 



IU student killed in hit-and-run 
BJ.OOMINCTON, lnd. -Poliee officers wnrn snarching Tunsday for a driver who ran away from a crash outside an Indiana Univnrsity sorority housn that killed one of its mnrnlwrs. 

;\shiny L Crouse, a 21-ynar-old IU senior from Carnwl, was killed in the crash that happerwd about I I :30 p.m. Monday whnn a station wagon hit tlw sport-utility vnhide in which slw was a passengnr. poliee said. 
Crousc~. who was not wnaring a seat belt, dit~d at Bloomington llospital after being thrown about 5 fnnt from the vehido. 
CoMPILED FROM T1·IE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
IRAQ 


Rumsfeld begins tour of Iraq 
U.S. Secretary of Defense stresses importance of a nonpolitical Iraqi military 
Associated Press 
SALAIIUDDIN -On a whirlwind tour of Iraq that ineluded his first visit to tho Kurdish region, I>efnnse Secretary Donald 
II. Humsfeld urged the emerging national govern­ment on Tuesday to avoid politicizing the lmqi mili­tary. 
At a news conference in a shaded courtyard sur­rounded by young pear trees, Humsfeld was asked whether Iraqi officials he met earlier in Baghdad had given him assurances about continuity in the senior leadnrship of the 
Iraqi security f(ll·ces.  ·  
"It's not so much a  mat­ 
tnr of continuity as a  mat­ 

tt~r of compntenee, of capa­bility," he said in an appeararH~o with Massoud Barzani, who has joined poliPcal forces with his formnr Kurdish rival, .Jalal Talabani. "It's a mattnr of not causing undue turbu­lence in the Iraqi security forces and not selling bar.k the important progress that's been achieved." 
Last week, Talabani was selncted as president of the transitional government now being formed and will lead the country until con­stitutional elnctions sched­uled for December. Some in the Bush administration fear the new interim gov­ernment will force out political rivals who have been working with U.S. 
ol'fi ei als s i nee Iraq rogai nod sovcreign{y last June. 
Humsfeld said Washington hopes to see in the new government "highly competent people who are not going to politi­eize security forces" but will keep to the current strategy of maintaining a 
U.S. presence until Iraq's own forces are capable of defeating the insurgents. 
President Bush, mean­while, visited with soldiers at Fort llood, Texas, and said the war in Iraq is "entnring a new phase" as Iraqi security forces and government institutions become more capable and 

seIf-reliant. "America and its eoali­

. tion partners are increas­ingly playing more of a supporting role," Bush said. "Like free people everywhere, Iraqis want to be defended and led by their own countrymen. We will help them achieve that objective so Iraqis can seeure their own nation. And then our troops will eome home with the honor they have earned." 
Bush likened the April 9, 2003, toppling of Saddam Hussein's statue in Baghdad to the fall of the Berlin Wall, ealling it "one of the great moments in the history of liberty." 
Afterward, the president met privately for nearly 3 1/2 hours with relatives of 33 soldiers who have died in Iraq. lie asked each family if they are getting the help that they need from the military, and he directed aides to follow up on concerns about bnnefits and other issues that some expressod, White House press secretary Seott McClellan said. 
As is his practiee on trips to Iraq, Humsfeld held what he calls a "town hall­style" meeting with a few hundred soldiers of the 3rd Infantry Division, the main U.S. force in Baghdad. lie pinned Bronze Star medals and Purple Heart awards on several soldiers and par­ticipated in the re-enlist­ment of about 100 sol­diers. 

Unsealed records reveal terror plot 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON -While the Sopt. , 11 hijackers were putting the final touches on their deadly plans for the World Trado Center and Pentagon, fodoral authoritios say another group of terrorists was plotting attacks on other landmarks in Nnw York and Washington. 
Three British citizens with sus­pected ai-Qaida ties were selfl.rting tho New York Stock Exchange, just bloeks from the Twin Towers, five months' boforo the 2001 attacks, a foderal indictment unsealed Tuesday alleges. Other financial institutions in New York and nearby Newark, N.J., also were under surveillance. as were two Washington buildings just across tho Potomac Hivor from the Pentagon. 
It is unelear how advanced the years-long plot was, but its diseov­ery last summer prompted tho· Homeland Security l>epartmont to raise the terror alert for the tarw~ted buildings. Security in thoso cities also was tightoned. 
;\ four-count indictment returned 
The best-remembored Bumsfeld eneountor with troops was his question­and-answer session last l>ecnmbor with National Cuard soldiers in Kuwait, many of whom wero preparing to hoad to Iraq. Ono soldior complained to Humsfeld about inadn­quatn armor for his unit's vehicles, and Humsfeld's responso was soen by many as dismissiv1~ of the armor problem. 
In what appeared to bn a countorpoint to that momnnt, o1w 3rd Infantry Division soldier at Tuesday's session came forward to givo Bumsfeld an engraved souvonir: The armor vost plate the sol­dier was wearing wlwn it stopped a sniper's bullot. 
by a New York City grand jury alleges tho men, already in British custody, ·visited and cond ut~tt~d sur­voillanee of the buildings and sur­rounding noighborhoods lwt.wnen August 2000 and April 2001. 
The plot was foiled when Pakistani investigators snized a computer with information from the survoillaneo. British authorities worn alortnd and annstnd eight men, ineluding the thr·en suspnets, on lt~rrorism-rPiatPd charges last August, Deputy Attorney Gnnnral Jamos B. Comny said. 


page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, Aprill3, 2005 
Service 
continued from page 1 
Although acceptance rates for seniors vary greatly between each of these organizations, Notre Dame students tend to be extremely successful. For ACE, out of the approximately 130 Notre Dame students who applied, 87 were offered spaces after graduation. Teach for America has not yet accepted any seniors as interviews just ended, but the program expects similar results from last year. 
"At the first application dead­line [in October 2004] Notre Dame seniors had an acceptance rate of 53 percent, which was significantly higher than the nationwide acceptance rate of percent," said Brad Leon, rPcruitment director at Teach for America. 
Students choose to do service for a variety of masons, but all are driven by a need to help oth­ers, or they would not do it, said ACE director John Staud. 
"We interview all our appli­cants. The most common motiva­tion is a strong desire to serve. They really want to give of them­selves," Staud said. 
According to Uz Mackenzie at the Center for Social Concerns, that number has stayed consis­tent despite the improving econo­my and increasing number of jobs available to graduates. 
"[Catholic Social Services] has done studies and found that those numbers don't change based on the economy. It's not as though people volunteer because they can't get a job," Mackenzie said. 
Still, many students choosing to do service express uncertainty with where they want to go in life, implying that perhaps ACE and other programs like it are ways to delay making longer­term life-planning decisions. 
Kristen Kramer, a 2002 history 


STORAGE SPACE 
Four Month Special, May-August For Notre Dame Students S'xlO' --$149+deposit lO'xlO' --$199+deposit 
caD 247-7805 

Close to Notre Dame and Airport 

and American studies major, chose to do ACE because she wanted to discern whether or not teaching was a viable career for her. 
After two years, she was con­vinced. Kramer decided to stay for a third year at her school in Jacksonville, Fla. and is now looking for teaching positions in her hometown of Atlanta, Ga. 
And Kramer is in the majority of her ACE peers. According to Staud, 70 percent of ACE gradu­ates choose to stay in education and 60 of those are in doctoral programs. 
"My sense is ACE opens the door to people professionally. If they go on to be lawyers, we don't view that as a mistake because they will have a better knowledge of public health," 


Club Recognition Awards 
Nominations Due April 13! 
·et'o
f~ 

Neednotbe memberofclub to nominate! 
Staud said. 

Kramer credits ACE with get­
ting her to where she is today. 
"It is highly unlikely I would be 
where I am if I hadn't done 
ACE," Kramer said. "I think I 
might have gotten into education 
eventually, but it would have 
taken me a lot longer to develop 
as a teacher." 
Senior Katie Hesmond, who was recently accepted into the ACE program, said her post­. service plans are yet to be deter­mined and is hoping that her work in the Catholic school sys­tem will help her choose an 
occupation that suits her. 
"I have no idea what I will do," 
Hesmon said. "Anything from 
medical school to international 
service." 

Mackenzie says that as long as 

Club 


WEWAHTYOU 


TO NDMINATEI!I!I! 
C/116 
Forms available onlline ~~~~ www.nd.edu/~ccc/ 
students go into their service programs with the right attitude, the reasons for them choosing to do service are not important. 
"There may be some people who do it because they can't find a job, others might not be sure what they want to do with an Arts and Letters degree, and they want to test the waters a bit," Mackenzie said. "It's a great opportunity to learn more about themselves and broaden their view of the world." 
Senior Ryan Greenberg, who will be doing servjce with the Holy Cross Associates after grad­uation, said that doing so pro­vides an opportunity to give back to the rest of the world. 
"I think post-grad service is a great opportunity, not to put the 'real world' on hold like some 








STUMP 
I> 

·THE PRIESTS!!! 
IT'S "LAST CALL'~' FOR THE YEAR! Get tapped in at Legends. 
Doors open at 9:30pm, Speakers start at 1O:OOpm 
people think, but to learn what the real world actually is," Greenberg said. 
Though locations, time com­mitment and reasons for doing service vary, one fact remains constant: giving back provides invaluable insight into what life is like outside the 'bubble,' Greenberg said. 
"I think one of the common aspects is this: some people graduate with loans, but every­one graduates with debts,". Greenberg said. "We receive many blessings as students at Notre Dame and we have an obligation to do good things when we leave." 
Contact Mary Kate·Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu and Jarrett Lantz at jlantz2@nd.edu. 
CM 
Campu$ Ministry 
Wednesday, April 13, 2005 
MARKET 
RECAP 
Dow 
10,507.97 +59.41
}ones . 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume 2,094 169 2,000,707,670

'.J1 
AMEX I .466.65 -8.54 NASDAQ 2,005.40 +13.28 NYSf 7,208.04 +18.62 S&P500 I, 187.76 +6.55 NIKK£1(Tokyo) I I , 6 7 0. 3 0 0.00 FTSf IOO(London) 4,946.20 -27.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) +0.49 +0.18 36.66 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) + 1.39 +0.25 18.24 INTEL CP (INTC) +0.43 +0.10 23.22 MICROSOFT CP (M5FT) + 1.40 +0.35 25.32 EBAY INC (EBAY) -0.91 -0.31 33.66 
30-YEAR BOND -0.88 -0.42 46.57 10-YEAR NOTE "1.02 -0.46 43.60 5-YEARNOTE -0.84 -0.35 40.38 
3-MONTH BILL -0.55 -0.15 27.07 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.85 51.86 
GOLD ($!Troy oz.) -1.10 429.30 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.63 91.25 
Excha Rates 
YEN I 07.7800 
EURO 0.7743 
POUND 0.5288 
CANADIAN$ 1.2376

I. 
IN BRIEF 
New pope to inherit debt 
VATICAN CITY -The next pope will not only havo to earn l"or tho souls of his 1.1 bil­lion-nwmlwr flock worldwide, but also the church's acl:ounts. hit by the railing dollar, sex abuse snttlnnwnts and a growing diplomatie 111 ission. 
l.ikn tho chin!' nxncutivo of a worldwide cor­poration . .John Paul II demanded financial accountability and promised grnater trans­panmcy al"tPr yoars or sncn~cy and even scan­dal. 
But in tho last years or his papacy the lloly Son was bark in the rod. In presnnting the lat­ost accounting, the chiof or thn Holy Son's eeo­rwmie al"l"airs ofTico citnd Europe's sluggish ncorwmic rncovnry, poor investnwnt climate and tlw rising strength of thn euro against thn dollar. 
"Our financial statemnnt eould not help but rofloct all or this," said Cardinal Sergio Snhastiani. 
Tho Collngn ol" Cardinals running thn chureh until a nnw pope is eloctnd said in their daily report Tunsday that Sebastiani briefed them on tlw 2004 statmnont and several details of the 2005 budgnt, but gave no details. 
"Tlw dollar has really hurt them," said the Hnv. Thomas Hoose, a Vatican export. "We're not only talking about monny eoming !'rom the Unitnd Statns. All the rich guys in the Third World also give in dollars." 
Merger creates steel industry giant 
HOTTEHDAM, Nethnrlands -Sharehol­dnrs in thn United States and the Nethnrlands approvod tho final step in tycoon Lakshmi Mittal's bid {o ereate onn of ttw world's largnst st!wl businesses, the com­pany said Tuesday. 
U.S.-basnd stnnlmaker International Steel Croup lne., which owns steel mills at East Chicago and Burns Harbor in Indiana, was acquirnd for stoek and cash valuing it at about $4.5 billion, Mitlal Stool Company NV Chinf Oporating OITieor Malay Mukherjeo said. 
Honland Baan, ehief oxecutive of the eom­pany's European operations, said the deal "ennwntnd Mittal's position across the four 1~ontirwnts" of North Amoriea, Asia, Europe and Al"ric:a. 


THE OBSERVER 


USINESS 
page 7 

Nike discloses labor sources 
Apparel manufacturer admits to finding 'abusive treatnzent' in foreign factories 
Associated Press 
BEAVEHTON, Oro. ­Af'tor years of criticism over its labor practices abroad, Nike Inc. has dis­closnd for the first time the names and locations of more than 700 factories that produce its sneakers, apparel and other prod­ucts. 
Industry experts said the disclosure, included as part or the eompany's corporate responsibility roport, makes the sneaker giant the first major apparel manul"acturer to voluntarily disclose its entire supply chain. 
In the report released Wednesday, Nike also acknowledges that facto­ries with whieh it con­tracts to produce goods have harassed workers and l"oreed some to work ovmtinw. 
For years, activists have demanded that Nike and other major companies reveal where faetories are located, so that independ­ent observers could go and assess the labor con­ditions. 
Corporations have br,en reluctant to do so, arguing that the plants are where the eom pany's trade secrets arc laid bare and that advanced products could be leaked to rivals. 

In its 108-page corpo­rate responsibility report, Nike discloses the names of 124 plants in China said,. "that's something According to the report, restriet access to toilets eontracted to make its wo're willing to take on if Nike audited 5(>9 factorins and drinking watl'r during products, 73 in Thailand, this diselosure will in fact in 2003 and 2004 and the work day. 35 in South Korea, 34 in move tho industry !"or­found abuses it has prnvi­The monitors found that Vietnam -with others ward in addressing some ously identified. Monitors in morn than half tlw elsewhere in Asia, as well of these endemic issues." round eases of "abusive South Asian l"aetorins, and as in South America, The "nndnmic issues" treatment" -either phys­in over 25 percent of' rac­

Australia, Canada, Italy, ar·e past allegations of ieal or verbal -in more tories ovnrall, thn normal Mexico, Turkey and the sweatshop conditions. than a quarter ol" its South course of' business lnd to United States. Nike's report aeknowl­Asian faetories, and work hours in OXCI~SS ol" 
While the competitive edges 1hat those issues between 25 pnrcent and 60 hours per week. In risk still exists, Nike still exist in some over­50 percent of the contraet morn than one-tenth of' all spokesman Lee Weinstein seas operations. l"aetories in the region the plants survnynd, 
ENGLAND 

LexisNexis' information unsecure 
Associated Press 
LONDON-Up to 10 times as many people as originally thought may have had their profiles stolen from a LexisNexis database in the United States, publisher and data broker Heed Elsevier Group PLC said Tuesday. 
Tho company reported last month that criminals may have accessed personal details of 32,000 people via a breach of LcxisNexis' recently acquired Seisint unit. It now says that figure is closer to 31 0,000 peo­ple. 
Heed said it had identified 59 inci­dents since January 2003 in which unauthorized persons, predominant­ly using IDs and passwords of legiti­mate Seisint customers, may have fraudulently acquired personal iden­tifying information on those thou­sands of people. ._ 
Information accessed included names, addresses, Social Security 

and driver license numbers, but not credit history, medical records or financial information, the company said. 
Heed spokesman Patrick Kerr said 
· the company uncovered the first batch of breaches during a review and integration of Seisint's systems shortly after it purchased the Boca Halon, Fla.-based unit for $775 mil­lion in August. "That's when this situation started becoming obvious," Kerr said. Seisint, which provides data for Matrix, a crime and terrorism data­base project funded by the U.S. gov­ernment that has raised concerns among civil liberties groups, stores millions or personal records indud­ing individuals' addresses and Social Security numbers. Customers indude police and legal professionals and public and private sector organiza­tions. The company said the 59 identified incidents -57 at Seisint and two in 
other LexisNexis units largnly relatnd to the rn isappropriation by third parties of IDs and passwords of' legitimate customers and stressed that neither Lexis N e xis nor tlw Seisint technology infrastrueturn was breached by hackers. 
Kerr said that only 2 pnrcnnt of' the 32,000 people it notified about the possible theft or their pnrsonal inf'or­' 
•I ' 
rnation in March have contacted I LexisNexis to accept its of'fer of' f'roe . I credit reports and credit monitoring, and nonn has so f'ar advisnd LexisNexis that they havn expnri­encnd any form of identity thnf't. 
"We are not being complacent, wn know there's still work to do but this so far is eneouraging," Kerr said. 
lie added that the company has since ensured that tho systnm is "watertight" by improving login sys­tems and security cheeks. 
Heed said it has now coneludnd its own inquiry into tho breachns, but 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, April 13, 2005 
Change pamphlet available in the cafe, Fair Trade Cofl'ee is coffee

Cafe 
that has been certified by a fair 
trade certification organization

continued from page 1 
verifying the workers who grow 

Not only does the cafe satisfy and harvest the beans are well the needs of hunger, it also gives paid and work in a democratical­students and faculty a place to ly-run cooperative. Fair trade study, meet with groups, or hang looks after not only the workers, out with friends. but also ensures that the environ­
"I was really surprised," said ment is protected. student-worker Jon McLean. "I Acccrrding to Grounds for thought it would have mostly Change, "Fair Trade Coffee is been students in here, but there especially important now, due to 
have been a lot of  the coffee crisis  
professors  and  that is devastating  
adults from around  "/think it's a  coffee-producing  
campus." The cafe has an ultra-modern con­ wonderful example ofthe caring  communities around the world." Saint Mary's  
temporary interior  community we are  selected the house  
and is wired for wireless Internet connection. There  a part ofat Saint Mary's."  blend of coffee Cafe Femenino that is farmed,  
will be four com­ sold and marketed  
puters  installed  Sarah Catherine White  solely by women.  
that will be avail­able for usn by stu­di~nts within a  former student body president  According to the pamphlet, the cof­fee is imported for  
week, Bowles said.  an extra two cents  

The cafe's tables advrwtise the per pound above the set Fair College's choice to pun~hase and Trade price, and this extra use Fair Trade Coffee for all cor­money goes directly to the file drinks. The decision to serve women who are free to spend the Fair Trade ·co flee was made alter money however they desire. numerous students asked that "I think it's a wonderful exam­the switch bn made from the tra­ple of the caring community we ditional coffee. are a part of at Saint Mary's," 
'There was a large population said former student body presi­on campus that requested it," dent Sarah Catherine White. "It's said Barry Bowles, general man­another great way to give back to ager of dining facilities at Saint the world and to show what we Mary's. "The new cafe seomed to are about." be the perfect opportunity to use Since this coffee must be Fair Trade Coffee to benefit the bought for a higher price, the College, and the women and price per cup of cofli~e on campus women's causes it benefits has been increased to accommo­around the world." date. While many students sup­
According to a Grounds for port the change in price because 


Housing 
continued from page 1 
current trends." Shoup said there have been 
limited complaints with the modifications to room selec­tions. However, one problem the Office of Residence Life and Housing faces yearly dur­ing this time is dealing with students who miss deadlines, of the cause it benefits, others are upset with the increase. 

"I understand the reasoning behind this change -our school felt the need to support the coffee workers -however, I am disap­pointed that they did not consult the student body before they made the change," said sopho­more Felicia Lipari. "As for the few cent increase, the coffee was already expensive; I don't have the interest or money to pay three to four dollars for a cup of coffee, period." 
Other changes that the cafe will bring to campus during the next year include adjustments to the "grab-and-go" boxed lunches ofl'ered to students who are not able to be on campus during the lunch hour. Students will now be able to exchange a meal for a larger variety of food and bever­age options in the cafe, rather than choosing from a predeter­mined list. 
Currently the cafe has limited hours. Starting April 18, the fixed hours for the remaining of the semester will be Monday through Friday from 6:30 a.m. to 8 p.m. and the cafe will remain closed on the weekends. 
Starting in the fall, however, the cafe will be open with extend­ed hours tentatively set for Monday through Thursday 6:30 
a.m. to 10 p.m., Fridays from 

6:30 a.m. until midnight, Saturdays from 10 a.m. until midnight and Sundays from 10 
a.m. until 10 p.m. These hours may be adjusted throughout the year, pending feedback from stu­dents, Bowles said. 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

he said. The office also wit­nesses difficulties when stu­dents' plans to live with some­one fall through. 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd.edu 

'. 


ROTC PRESIDENTIAL PASS-IN-REVIEW 
TIME: Wednesday, 4:30-PM LOCATION: JACC Fieldhouse 
THE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY IS INVITED TO JOIN FATHER MALLOY IN HONORING THE NOTRE DAME ROTC UNITS IN THE PRESIDENTIAL PASS-IN-REVIEW 
PLEASE COME AND SHOW YOUR SUPPORT FOR THE CADETS AND MIDSHIPMENAT THIS ANNUAL TRADITION 

BANGLADIESH 



Resc:uers search for survivors in collapse 
Associated Press 

SAVAH -Hescuers digging through the concrete debris of a collapsed sweater factory in Bangladesh heard survivors pleading for. help Tuesday, but the cries were fading a day after the nine-story building toppled, killing at least ;{O people and trapping 200. 
Nine bodies were pulled from the rubble overnight~ but res­cuers were hopeful that more lives could be saved. Some trapped survivors could be heard calling for help and beg­!,ring for water, witnesses said. Emergency workers said hopes of finding more survivors were fading. 
The building near Savar, an industrial town 20 miles north­west of the capital Dhaka, col­lapsed arter a boiler explosion early Monday. 
On Tuesday, one survivor walked out of the rubble. 
"lie just crawled out of an open space all by himself, stood dazed for a bit and collapsed in front of us," said Anisul Islam, a rescue volunteer. "We were amazed. It was a realmirade." 
The survivor, who was trapped on the ground floor, was later identified only as Polash, 25. He was recovering in a hospital. 
Nurul Islam, a police official supervising the rescue work, said about 200 people were feared tra.pped beneath the mangled sweater factory that collapsed Monday. 
Anxious relatives joined sol­diers, firefighters and volun­teers in the search for those trapped. Islam, the police ofli­cial, said at least 92 injured workers were taken to hospi­tals. 
"What sin have we commit­ted? Why would Allah take him?" said Sharmin Akhtar, 23, as she searched for her hus­band, Jahangir !\lam. 
One survivor, I Ielaluddin, said he was on the seventh floor along with about 90 workers when the building collapsed. 
"I was overseeing the workers when there was a big bang and (thn) building suddenly started shaking and going down," said Hnlaluddin, who uses one name. "I was buri1~d under slabs of concrete beti>re I eould realize what had happened." 
Abdus Salam, a 15-year-old working the overnight shift when the factory collapsod, had promised to buy candy for his mother and younger sister with his first-ever paycheck, his fam­ily said. 
"I will never see the face of my son -he was my soul," Fatmna Begum wailed as rela­tives lost hope for Salam's sur­vival. "Who will bring sweets for me now?" 


r---------~----------------------·-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, April 13, 2005 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Relative reports blackmail at trial 
Stepfather ofJackson's accuser claims pop star offered tuition, house 
A.~sociatcd Press 
SANTA MAHIA. Calif. -The stepfatlwr of MidHwl Jackson's accusnr teslilied Tuesday that after tho broadcm;t of a damag­ing TV documnnlary about Jackson. an w;sodate of thn pop star om~md thn family a eollnge education and a house. 
But the stepfather said when lw sought monny li1r the family, lw was aecusnd of blackmail. 

The slepfalhnr look the stand as tlw prosnculion shillnd from witnesses who alloged past improprieties by Jackson baek to the current allngations that the singnr molested a 13-year-old hoy in February or Mard1 2003, gave him akohol and conspired to hold his family eaptive to get tlwm to rebut the documentary. 
In Uw Feb. (,, 2003, documen­tary. "Living With Michael Jackson," .Jaekson and the boy appeared on camera, and Jaekson said he l1~t children slnnp in his bnd but character­iznd it IL'> innocnnt. 
Part of the stepfather's testi­mony dnalt with the period lead­ing up to Feb. I1J-20, 20!n, when tho boy, his hrotlwr, sister and molhor madn a n~buttal vidoo in which they praised Jackson. 

The stepfatlwr teslil'ied he IH•gan asking .hu:kson associate t:rank Tyson what monetary rom pm1sation thorn was for the ramify if thoy participatod in the rebuttal video. Tyson has been nanwd by prosecutors as an unindicliHI eo-conspirator in .Jm:kson's easll. 
"I said, 'What am you ollering this fiunily to do this'?"' the step­litllwr said. lin quoted Tyson IL'> replying, "Wo'ro of1flring protee­tion. "' 
Tlw stnpfather continued, "I said, 'Frank, the family doesn't neod protnetion. Who are you protecting them from'?"' 
lie said he never got an answnr. 
A'> tho eonvorsation eontinund, the witnnss said, Tyson "said he was going to of1<H· a college edu­cation and a house." The stepfa­ther said he told Tyson the fami­ly did not need a house or eol­lnge, and asked, "What are you oll'ering them monetarily?" 
At that point, the witness said, Tyson replied, "Are you trying to blaekmailus?" 
The sb1pfather said he had no idea there was any 
question was not answered. 
The stepfather described a series of calls by the mother from Neverland in which she soundnd "distressed, disturbed." 
"She said she was not able to see her ehildren, that whnn she went off Neverland she had a chaperone," he said. 
The stepfather said when the boy returned from Neverland for the last time his behavior was markedly changed. 
"It appeared to me he'd been brainwashed by someone," the man blurted out, drawing a defense objection . .Judge Hodney 
S. Melville 
information that could be used for blackmail. lie also said he received  "It appeared to me he'd been  told the jury to disregard the remark.  
"zero" money from .Jackson. The stepfather  brainwashed by , someone.  Asked by the prose­cution to  
dnscribed a tumultuous  describe  
time in February 2003 when the mother and children wern whisked oil' to Florida, purport- stepfather of Michael Jackon's accuser  the change in the boy, the stepfa­ther said,  

odly to hold a nnws eon­fnrenee with .Jackson, returned and worn taken to Neverland, then brought back to Los Ang11les. 
During that period, he said they gave an audio interview to a private investigator, filmed the rebuttal video and wnre inter­viewed by child welfare authori­tins. 
Prosecutors allege the molostation oecurred near the end of the family's purported captivity. 
"And in the middle of all this turmoil, to your knowledge, molestation began on the 20th (of February)?" .Jaekson attorney Thomas Mesoreau .Jr. asked inerndulously. The judge sus­tained an objection and the 
" II e ' d become mean. lie was using cursn words. lie had never done that before." 
llo also said of the boy, "lie was acting very cocky, kind of rude, actually. I don't think he wantnd to see me. It was almost like, 'What are you doing here?"' 
On cross-examin<Uion, Mnser'eau noted the accuser's previous disciplinary problems at school, and then played for jurors a Feb. 16, 2003, audio tape in which the accuser's mother lauds .Jaekson as being "like a father ... unselfish, kind, exhibiting unconditional love." 
During the 20-minute tape, the stepfather rocked in his chair, occasionally rollnd his eyes and shook his head. 
~[l'l~([li @Jl r~~llrE c~[[~ @Jr@J~JM[[M]JJ5 

~~~ 
Bring this ad in to 
.
rece1ve 

$500 off 
your 1st month's rent *Expires 4/30/05 Restrictions apply 
Toll Free 1-866-395-4201 www.aimco.com 1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 

*Walk to Campus *Hook up with friends, just blocks from your favorite night spots *Bronze yourself at our pool *Remodled Apartments *Lease with 42" plasma 
included 

#1 Hot Spot at NO 

House leader heads gasoline legislation 
DeLay supports bill to protect MTBE makers 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Embattled House Majority Leader Tom DeLay is being challengnd by Democrats on one of his top pri­orities -protecting makers of the gasoline additive MTBE from liability lawsuits, an issue that blocked energy legislation two years ago. 
A draft Hepublican energy bill would protect MTBE makers, including several major oil and refinery companies in Texas, from lawsuits that contend the manufacturers knew the addi­tive would contaminate drinking water, but pushed to have it widely used anyway. 
DeLay, joined by Hop . .Joe Barton, a fellow Texas Hepubliean, has been tho pri­mary force behind the MTBE provision. It eleared the Ilouse two years ago, but prompted such an uproar in the Senate that it scuttled a massive energy bill that was nearing approval. 
Democrats said they will try on Wednesday to strip the MTBE provision from a revised energy bill being worked on by Barton's Energy and Commerce Committee. Supporters of the measure said they arn confident they can beat baek tho chal­lenge. 
Besides the product liability shield, the draft GOP bill calls for phasing out MTBE use by the end of 2014 and giving manu­facturers $1.75 billion in transi­tion assistance. The legislation also calls for expanding an existing federal program that dnals with leaking gasoline stor­age tanks and funneling more of that money into MThE eleanup. Democrats say those funds are inadequate to deal with a cleanup task that eould eventu­ally affect thousands of commu­nities. 
In 2003, Bush administration ollicials at one point tried to gel tho MTBE measure out of the energy bill. but were robufl'od by DeLay. House Hepublieans say they're as determined as ever to keep it in this year's legislation. 

MTBE, or methyl tertiary­butyl other, is an oxygenate widely used in gasoline to reduce air pollution. But it also has been found to contaminate drinking water supplies, somn­times leaving communiOns with expensive eleanup bills. Traces of MTBE have been found in watnr in almost every state, with lnvels high enough for potential cleanup problems in about half the states. 
A number of lawsuits have been filed -and more are nxpncted -that target tlw MTBE manufacturer and not just the fuel companies and gas stations that cause tho MTBE to lnak into groundwater. Thes1~ lawsuits daim the MTBE mak­ers knew the additive eould eausn pollution problems bnfi1n\ it was widely used, and should have withdrawn it. 
But DeLay has argued force­fully that the government osson­t.ially mandated MTBE usn whnn it passed a I990 law requiring gasoline to contain 2 percent oxygen, and that Congress should now help manufacturers transition away from making MTBE and protect them against product liilbility lawsuits. 



Ex-convict and author accused of killing tvvo 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA. Ga. -An ex-eon­viet who collaborated with two professors on a book about life behind bars and vownd never to go back to prison was captured Tuesday after being accused of two slayings in South Carolina. 
Stephen Stanko, 37, was arrested in a shopping center parking lot in Augusta, a day after authorities launched a nationwide manhunt, police said. Authorities had been tipped that a truck they believed Stanko was driving had benn seen in the lot. 
Stanko, who had just eaten lunch, was unarmed and was taknn into eustody without inci­dent, Horry County, S.C., Police spokesman Andy Christnnson said. He was wnaring a suit and tie. 
"lie did not look dangnrous at all," said Marcie Crown, manag­er of the Atlanta Bread Co. restaurant whore Stanko ate. "It's very f'rnaky." 
Stanko is suspeetod of' killing Laura Ling, 43, a librarian who livod with him outside Myrtle Beach, S.C., and llenry Len Turner, 74. 
Ling's body was discovnrnd Friday allnr a tonnage girl in the home called authoritins and said she had bonn raped by Stanko, police said. Turnnr was round shot to death in his home on Saturday. 

Stanko was ehargnd with two counts of murder and onn count of rape in South Carolina, and with a federal charge of' unlawful flight to avoid prosocul.ion, ofli­cials said. 1111 was being hold pending a fndnral eourt appnar­ance, most likPly WndnPsday, 
U.S. Marshal Deputy Tim SliH: said. It was undoar whnn lw would bn rnturnnd to South Carolina. 
Stanko was relnasnd f'rom prison nearly a ynar ago after serving most of' a I0-ynar sPn­tnncn f'or kidnapping. Whih~ in prison, he eo-wrote a book titlnd "Living in Prison: A llistory of' thn Corroetional Systnm With an Insider's Vinw" with t.hn hnlp of' two criminoloJ.,ry proli1ssors. 
Stanko wrotn about thn hard­ships of prison lil'n and thn f'nar or being labnlnd "a convietnd felon" al'tnr his rnlnasn. "What I fear most now is that I may carry sornn of' this total institution back into society with mn," he wrotn. 
AuthoritiPs said Stanko mnt LinK and Turnnr at thn library wlwre tlw nx-convirt said lw was researching a book. 
A wnnk ago, Stanko was firm! after working f'or a nwnth as a salPsman f'or Stucco Supply in Myrtle B11ach. .Jell' K!mdall, gnn­nntl managnr, said Stanko was unrnliabln and brought in f'nw sales. 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, April 13, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Study linguistics or die
T1H lntkpnrdmt, Daily Newspapa S,r'nr Nt~tn! Darru: and Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDIIDR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHom EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDIIDR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-747! fAX (574) 63!-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students ofthe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies o(the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right rei refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as ac~urately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all.readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to F4itor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2--40001 is published Monday through FridJ.y n~r during exam Mnd vacation periods. A subscription to "Ott O~rver is .$100 lor one Jcadc:mic year; $55 for one !>Cmft1rtr. 
The Obscrvtr is publhhed at: POSTMASTER 021 South Dining Hall Send add~ cortettions tc: Notre Dame, IN 46556-()779 The Observer l'criodical post.lgt' paid ar Nom.• Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing otftccs 024 South Dining 1-:loall 
No(f(' Dame, IN 46SS6-0n'.l 
11tc Obse-rver is a member oF the fuwciarc:d Pre». All rcp~uction rights arc reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
This week, as the rush to register ensues, you can choose from 17 lan­guages. Yet, while you can dabble in any number of these exotic tongues, you are restricted from studying the 
very root of it all:  
language itself.  Peter  
While anthropology  Quaranto ·  
might offer a novice linguistic anthropol­ A Call to Action  
ogy survey course,  

Notre Dame, like almost all contempo.­rary American universities, lacks a lin­guistics department. This absence is not only an academic void for all of us students, but it is symptomatic of a defective modern understanding of lan­guage. 
It is redundant and stating the obvi­ous to note that language is powerful, but it is the scope and nature of that power which has become cloudy in our times. As anyone who has seriously studied a foreign language knows, lan­guages hold cultural, political, social, religious and traditional insights within their structures. Even further, the application of language holds tremen­dous power as selected syntax and dic­tion have entrenched dictatorships, propelled social movements and insti­gated warfare. To study history, sci­ence or nearly any field without sensi­tivity for linguistics is to make a grave academic blunder. 
Here in Uganda, study of the lan­guages Luganda in the central Buganda region highlights a number of cultural realities. For example, there is no direction translation for "hello" in the Lugandan language. There really is not a one-word standard greeting. People always ask "oli otya?" (How are you?) or "ki kati?" (What's up?) or "ogambaki?" (What do you say?). This simple linguistic difference accentuates profound cultural differences. In Uganda, people do not run by each other and throw out a one or two-word greeting; people stop and actually talk to each other about their welfare and days. 
Another example is that when greet­ing people, Ugandans always say "gye­bale," which literally translates to "thank you for the work you do." No matter the nature of the work done, people believe it is important to thank each other for their work. This signifi­cant part of customary Ugandan life is visible only with a linguistic lens to understand the quotidian greetings. 

Such linguistic insights raise a myri­ad of queries about how languages are constructed, how they evolve and how we learn them. The literature on lin­guistic study is actually rich and boun­tiful, ranging from scientific theories on linguistic cognition to studies on the intricacies of political semantie manip­ulation. Unfortunately, such critical lit­erature and study are generally home­less in the modern American universi­ty. 
The result of such a failed awareness of linguistics is dangerous because lan­guage is constantly being manipulated and controlled all around us, deeply impacting the politico-economic sys­tems in which we operate. The lan­guage utilized (very selectively and consciously) by the leaders of such sys­tems is meant to shape the way we perceive debates, issues, problems and even the whole of the world. 
Here in Uganda, the president Youweri Museveni is a master of such careful semantic maneuvering. As the political system attempts to shift from a one-party state to one of multiparty­ism, Museveni refuses to admit that the Movement (the one party of the one­party state) is a party. He calls it an organization to give it an elevated sta­tus over the other political parties. 
Further, Museveni constantly speaks of the weakness of the forming political parties, implying with his language that their victory will bring the country back to the dark chapters of its history under Milton Obote and Idi Amin. Museveni's linguistic prowess allows him to subtly pervade fear amongst the population, which will most likely ensure his continued hegemony. Similarly, our own president has exhib­ited his own linguistic aptitude and exploitation, especially last year during the electoral season. · 
It is not only an academic oversight to miss the linguistic dimensions of each field, but it also quite dangerous. Without awareness and sensitization, we can easily be coerced and misguid­ed by the linguistic scheming of indi­viduals and groups. The way that the majority of the American population blindly accepted the Bush Administration's pre-Iraq war justifica­tion is a key example. 
Yet along with guarding against such abuse, consciousness of linguistics is empowering and emboldening. Linguistic awareness and proficiency can help us to challenge systems of injustice, exploitation and violence. 
Writers with the power of pen (or computer keyboard in recent decades) can change the hearts and minds of millions simply with the right assort­ment of words. Speech writers and per­formers can dazzle the emotions of masses with their phrases and appeals. Movements, selecting the right lan­guage, can challenge even the mighti­est structures of oppression. Most of all, recipients of such writings, media and speeches can become more informed, critical individuals. 
Notre Dame may not get a linguistics department any time soon, but that does not mean professors and students alike cannot work to enhance our attentiveness to the evident linguistic dynamics at work all around us. Study of language will empower us to build a healthier, more participatory democra­cy in our own country and throughout the world. With the conglomeration of power by the political and economic elite throughout the globe, the demand for such informed citizenry could not be greater. 
Peter Quaranta is a junior interna­tional peace studies major. He writes from Kampala, Uganda, where he is studying development studies this semester at Makerere University. Read his running commentary from Uganda at www.peterquaranto. blogspot. com. Contact Peter at pquarant@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Sports Megan O'Neil Eric Retter 
OBSERVER POLL 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Katie Laird Mike Gilloon 
Lisa Schultz Ryan Kiefer 


1Submit aLetter 
"It's a strange world oflanguage in 
Viewpoint Scene What do you think of 

which skating on thin ice can get
Becca Rosswurm Kenyatta Storin 
insideNO? 
you into hot water." 
Graphics Illustrator 


I. to the Editor at
Graham Ebetsch Graham Ebetsch 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
Franklin P. Jones 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
author 

..------­
Wednesday, April 13, 2005 
This Sunday's Gospel tells us the story of the good shepherd. Indeed, tho fourth Sunday of Easter is often called "Good Shepherd Sunday," as every year on this Sunday we read from the tenth chapter of .John's gospnl, Kate Barrett known as .Jnsus' "(~ood 
FaithPoint
Shnpherd Discourse." /\nd thank goodrwss for that! We can always use a good sheplwrd in our lives. 
Tlw sheep. in John's gospel, recog­nize thn voiee of the shnpherd, and nvnn though they may mingle on the same hillside or at the same water hole with others who belong to differ­ent masters, they rwed only to hear the voice of' their own shepherd and they will follow only him. 
!\ few weeks ago, at the Eastor Vigil Mass in the Basilica, twelve people from our community publicly chose .Jesus as tlwir Good Shepherd. They had lward his voice calling and knew that it was lime to follow. They made tlw ratlwr amazing choiee to spend this past year praying and studying, preparing for Baptism as Catholic Christians at the Vigil, and to receive Confirmation and Eucharist. Such a choiee, aflnr lives without formal affil­iation to a church community, could come only from careful, attentive, prayerful listening to Jesus' voice in their lives. 

Just this past Sunday, we welcomed a separate group of eleven into the Catholic Church. These already-bap­tized Christians had also heard Jesus' voice, calling thorn specilieally to Catholieism. They too had spent the year in study, prayer and discernment. On Sunday they pledged their belief in what the Catholic Church "believes, teaches and proclaims to be revealed by God," and they too received Confirmation and Eucharist. 
What voice had these new Catholic Christians heard that they found so compelling? Who called them away from the plctces they had been and toward these Sacraments? Jesus Christ is the obvious answer·... but what does his voice sound like these days? Well, it probably sounds a lot like yours and mine; a lot like the voice of people of the Notre Dame community and our Church communi­ty who try to live out Christ's example of holiness, who also listen for thn voice of the Shepherd, who sometimes also somewhat lost as well. 
In llebrnw literature images can 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT 
The Good Shepherd 
change and clash at will, and Sunday's gospel is no exception. Jesus at the same time is the Shepherd, lead­ing us, and the gate, through which we pass to safety. We too may one day serve as Christ's voice for others, and another day may need desperately to hear that voice ourselves. 
Our newly bap­tized and newly received Catholic Christians already know, as a wise Holy Cross priest is fond of saying, that "nobody gets to heaven by themselves." We 
·are all part of a community, part of the same Shepherd's fold, and together we can sort out the competing voic­es, that we might hear Jesus' call to discipleship. The voices through which we hear Christ may fall 
page II 

silent, as that of our beloved Pope did so recently, but that only calls us to continue to Iiston, to speak and to act with greater care and 
attention. Who's your Good Shepherd'? To whom 
do you listen? or what do you speak'? Does your voice 
load otlwrs to fol­low Christ morn elosely'! We have 
a speeial earn and concern for those we have rocently wel­eomed into tlw Church, and 
wo'ro all in this togethnr. Listen well. Speak well. 
Kate Harrell works for Campus Ministry. .'·lhe can be 
contacted at l/arrett.28@nd.edu. The 11iews expressed in 

this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obser11er. · 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Goals of Shack City clarified 

/\s thn lnad mnmber of tho Shack City Planning Toam each of the past two years, . , I am writing to darify the goal and mission of Shack City in an effort to eliminate any eon fusion, some of which was expressed in a Lettnr to the Editor titled "Poverty is dnath" in the /\pril S is sun of The Observer. 
Shack City is a Habitat for Humanity sponsored sleep-out beginning on Saturday, /\pril 16 that seeks to further Habitat's goal of eliminating substandard housing worldwide. The students will advocate through letter writing, fundraise through the acquisition of sponsorship, and most importantly, educate others and be nducated themselves. 
Habitat supplies boxes for participants to boost tlw educational aspect, not to "pre­tend to bn homeless." Bather, the boxes create a visual effect that participants and non-participants alike will see and remem­ber, and they bring to the front of one's mind actual substandard housing in the 
U.S. and abroad. In addition, through the poverty facts written in brightly colored chalk on the sides of the boxes, they help create an environment in which substan­dard housing is clearly the focus. 
Speakers from the Center for the Homeless and a relevant video will also add to the educational aspects of the evening. We hope that these and the other educational components compel partici­pants to taking more direct action in the future. 
While we could never re-create true homelessness on a Saturday night on South Quad, nor would we want to, we can put it on people's minds. Events such as a "Hunger Banquet," "30 hour famine," or Shack City do not and cannot attempt to recreate the actual problem, but rather raise funds and create an environment fos­tering greater understanding of that issue. We would never mock a person or problem that we care su deeply about, and Habitat would not hold this event if it was not being done in a way that is consistent with our ideals of solidarity. 
Finally, the event is specifically designed to be an e_njoyable experience for the par­ticipants, for example by providing live music and midnight marshmallows. While clearly not the focus of the event, they do encourage a broader range of students to attend, thereby increasing the effective­ness of both education and fundraising. 
The event certainly is not perfect and is not the all-inclusive solution, but it takes us in the direction of Habitat's goal to eliminate substandard housing. Should anyone have concerns or suggestions, please contact me directly. 
I am excited about this opportunity to raise funds to support soon-to-be Habitat homeowners in South Bend and also Puebla, Mexico through our developing special partnership with Puebla's affiliate. Best of all, there is still time to register. Will you join us? 
Ryan lafigliola Habitat for Humanity Education and Outreach Coordinator Shack City Planning Team leader Aprill2 


U-WIRE 

Ferris Bueller -was right 
I am usually not one to give advice but for this eolumn I will. My 
advice is very simple and probably something everyone has heard 
before. I simply advise everyone to live life to the fullest and take 
advantage of all the opportunities that are presented to you. 
Tomorrow you could die or maybe the end of the world will eome, 
so we should take advantage of each day we have. 
Ferris Bueller said, "Life moves pretty fast. If you Bret Griffin 
don't stop to look around once in a while, you could 
miss it." University of 
And if you have seen the movie you know that he Oklahoma tried to live each day to the fullest. It may have just Oklahoma been a movie but we all have the ability to do the Daily same. 
Although I am not always successful, I at least make an attempt to live each day the best I can. That is why I write this article from Russia. When I first came to college I never thought that I would one day study anywhere but America. But I was given the opportu­nity to do so and I took advantage of it. I have not even been here two months yet, but I can say with no doubt that it has been one of the best decisions of my life. I have made a lot of new friends, learned a lot, come to appreciate the world outside of America and grown a deeper appreciation for America. 
If you ever have the opportunity to go abroad, I would say do it, whether it's just a spring break trip or something longer. America is great, but it is just one of several hundred countries, and although I have only been to two, I am sure that each country has something to offer everyone. 
I extend this same advice for any random party or weekend at the lake. You only have so many opportunities in your life and each day you wake up your life is one day shorter. It is easy to say there will always be more opportunities, but that is not always true. If today you are given an opportunity for an adventure, unless you have an extreme circumstance, take advantage of it. This includes the opportunity to ask out the attractive girl who sits next to you in class, the opportunity to toss the ball around, the opportunity to sit in a lawn chair on the sport court and drink a beer with your friends and numerous others. 
Remember Ferris' advice and with it keep in mind that we are all dying, it is just a matter of how and when. For a long time I could not wait to grow up. First, I wanted to be 16 so I could drive, then I wanted to be 18 so I could be a legal adult and then I wanted to be 21 so I could legally drink. Now looking back, I realize that I might never have made those ages, and I still might not make 21. So rather than complain about not being 21, I am simply going to enjoy being 20, and continue to enjoy the limited time I have left in Russia. It is nice to look ahead sometimes but doing so will not bring the future here any Sooner and you can always lind a way to enjoy today. 
Like I said, I have nothing to say you have not already heard, but it is nice to be reminded every once in a while, and I hope you will all take advantage of what each day brings to you. 
This column originally appeared on April 12 in the Oklahoma Daily. the daily publication at the University ofOklahoma. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
I 
I 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, April 13, 2005 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
Down to Earth stays in the box 
By MICHELE JEFFERS Scene Music Critic 
Acolytes of Dr. Phil (and those who shop with my mother) are probably familiar with the expression that a per­son needs to get out of his or her box. 
It seems lately the whole world has developed an obsession with this 3­dimensional figure -everywhere you go, there is the ubiquitous persistence to think, climb, overthrow, do anything at all besides get near that dull, boring old box. Spurring innovation and avoiding catchy gimmicks almost promises obscu­rity, but sometimes sticking to one's box isn't quite so bad. 
They contain who a person is, what he loves and the things that bring him the most comfort. One might even want to invite some friends over and build a clubhouse out of it. 
Down to Earth Approach unapologeti­cally insists on staying in its box. Inspired by their love of "The Get Up Kids" and "Saves the Day," Jonathan Lullo, Ryan McClurg, John McCampbell and Peter Metzler came together to form Down to Earth Approach in 2000. 
In what must have been a dream come true, the band was signed to its idols' label, Vagrant Records. In recording its first LP, Down to Earth Approach strong­ly adhered to its name. 
On Vagrant's Web site, frontman Jonathan Lullo explains how the band's name reflects its approach towards music. 
"We don't want to reinvent the wheel; right now we just want to write some really good pop songs. We don't want to change the music scene, we just want to have our own place in it," he wrote. 
Down to Earth Approach did, in fact, find its place in the music scene with the release of the album "Another Intervention" in August, 2004. ­
Another Intervention 
Down to Earth Approach 
Vagrant 



"Another Intervention" features eleven 
melodic rock songs that reveal a strong 
kinship with concomitant Vagrant bands. 
Lullo's wide vocal range allows him to 
hit the high notes without skirting on the 
whininess espoused by many bands in 
the genre. "Exhibit of the Year" is a 
great opener, hooking the listener into a 
series of upbeat, level tempo tracks. 
Standout tracks include "Triple Black," 
"Books on tape," and "Living Rooms." 
The band successfully conveys its enthusiasm and energy on "Another ·Intervention," but it is on the stage th·at 
the band really blazes. · 
After seeing the band perf01:m at a 
concert earlier this year, Knott on the 
Knoll president Joe McCarthy worked his 
magic to bring the band to Notre Dame. 

McCarthy stated that Down to Earth Approach "seemed like a band that could have a lot of fun, and their music is energetic and very catchy. After I saw them on stage, I knew they had the charisma to headline a college rock con­cert." 
Down to Earth Approach is bringing its box and rocking it out at Knott on the Knoll this weekend. All are invited for revelry and rock music at the box social of the season Saturday night. Knott on the Knoll will also feature performances. by This Day and Age, The Weakman's I Alliance and Detroit Rock City's finest, The Basement Stairs. 
Contact Michele Jeffers at mjeffers@nd.edu 

'The O.C.: Mix 4' showcases new bands 
By BECCA SAUNDERS Assistant Scene Editor 
Anyone who has every watched "The O.C." for a reasonable amount of time has wished he or she could be, even just for a minute on a cold December day, in the warm sun of southern California. 
It could be the image of life in the 
O.C. that draws people to the extremely popular show. And with the release of the "Mix" album, everyone can get just one step closer to feeling like they are in the carefree, albeit overdramatic, world of "The O.C." 
There are now four "Mix" albums from "The O.C." Each album showcases some of the best songs played on the show. "The O.C." has become known for featuring and even promoting the music of up and coming bands of many different musical genres. 
The first season of "The O.C." even filmed an episode focusing on the band Rooney, causing the sales of the up­and-coming band to soar in the follow­ing weeks. 
With an audience of millions of teenagers watching the show every week, every song that appears· on the soundtrack is promoted by "The O.C." Most of the time, the songs are recent releases from new bands, or at least bands that do not already have a tremendous following. What results is an interesting collection of albums with a majority of songs that most fans of the show will enjoy. 
"The O.C. Mix 4" is no exception in the choice of songs featured. While there are a few names and songs that a good deal of people will recognize, the majority of the music comes from less­er-known bands. The overall sound of "The O.C. Mix 4" varies, but the major­ity of the songs are a bit slow in tempo. 
Music from the O.C.: Mix 4 

Various Artists 
Warner Bros. 



There is a generally good mix of fast and slow songs, and all 12 of the songs are great. 
One of the best songs on the album is a cover of the Oasis classic "Champagne Supernova," performed by Matt Pond PA. The·song is terrific, and the cover does it justice. The sound is not as heavy as the Oasis version and sounds much more similar to an acoustic performance than a rock band singing, as was the case with Oasis. 
Other top songs include, "Eve, The Apple of My Eye" by Bell Xl, "Cartwheels" by The Reindeer Section, "On the Table," by A.C. Newman and "Play" by Flunk. 
The second-tier songs are also great songs, but on this mix even they are a bit overshadowed. They include,· "Decent Days and Nights" by The Futureheads, "Goodnight and Go" by Imogen Heap, "Fortress" by Pinback, "To Be Alone With You" by Surfjan Stevens, "Scarecrow" by Beck, "The View" by Modest Mouse and "Hardcore Days and Softcore Nights" by Aqueduct. 
"The O.C. Mix 4" is an album anyone who has ever wondered what living in the O.C. would sound like must have. The mix of music from original bands and artists is refreshing. The songs are good, the sound is great, and despite the opinions one may have about the show, everyone should give "The O.C. Mix 4" a chance. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Wednesday, April 13, 2005 
page 13 
Criminal record overrated in rap 
Beanie Sigel, Shyne and others try to maintain rap careers behind bars 
In tlw rap world, a criminal background is tlw ultimatP rosume. 
Tlw fiwnwr drug dealer Beanie Sigd, who spnnt years bucking the law bolhre getting his big break ll.'i a .Jay-Z protege, h<L'> never lacknd streot crnd. With his menacing glare and criminal-minded rhymes, the l'hiladdphia nativn positioned himsdf ll.'i one of tlw most authentic gangstas on the rap scene. 
But ht.'>t ynar hn Wll.'i sentencnd to a year in prison on a weapons charge, and still laces a rntriaJ on IUl attmnpted murder charge (the lirsl Cll.'ill nndnd in a mistrial la'it fall). Now, II.'> h1~ rnlmL'ies his latest album from behind bars, Sigel is among a number of high-pro­fill' rappers linding that a cTiminal present may not be II.'> lucrative II.'> a criminal p<L'>t. 
"Tiwre's no erodibility in going to jail," dndares Damon Dash as he talks about Sign!, the star nf the Hoc-a-li1lla label Da'ih started with Jay-Z. "I don't think it's ever a positive thing and I would never advocate anybody going to jail and I don't think Bnanin would ever advocate it -Beanie did a crime, and right in front of the judge, he said, 'I said I did my !Time, so I'll do whatev­nr time you givn me."' 
Da•;h talks a lot.about whatSigel says and thinks -because Sigel can't do it himself. lin's at a federal prison in solitary confine­mnnt (whkh Dash blames on overzealous corrections ollidals), unable to promote "The B. Coming," his third album. 
So tho charismatic mogul Dash has beeome Sigel's stand-in, doing radio spots, appearing on 'IV shows, conducting inter­views -all the things artists normally do to push a new album. 
"If they're going to try to put him in a place where he can't make money, we're going to try to reverse that, where we bene­lit from it to some degree, even though thero's no real benefit from him being in jail," Dash said. "But we're going to make best of it, like making lemons into lemon­ade." 
Dash even recorded Sigel's attempted murder trial and his entraneo into prison lor documentary fodder; some segments have already been shown on BET and M1V. His album cover shows him in a prison cell, glumly looking at tho camera. And the satu­ration looks like it's helped: "The B. Coming" debuted at No. 3 on the album charts, selling about 131,000 copies, the best debut of his career. 
"We had to do enough musk to keep him provalent in the market while he was gone," Dash said, "because we didn't know how long he'd be gone." 
While a numerous high-pro!ile rappers have been charged with crimes at the height of their fame -such as Eminem, P. Diddy, Jay-Z and DMX -few have been sentenced to si1,rnificant prison terms. Those who have -including Shyne, ODB, C-Murder, Mystikal and Slick Rick -often see their careers slide. 
Antoine Clark, editor in chief of F.E.D.S. magazine, which chronicles street criminals and .rappers, says time behind bars may help boost a rapper's tough image but won't help sell more records. 
Clark pointed to Shyne, who was charged along with mentor P. Diddy in a 1999 night­club shooting. While Diddy was acquitted, Shyne -who had impressive success as a debut artist before his criminal troubles ­was sent-enced to 10 years for wounding two people in the disturbance. 
Last year, Island Def Jam signed the incar­cerated rapper to a reported $3 million record deal, and he released the album "Godfather Buried Alive," which contained some raps he reeorded from prison over the telephofi(~. 
Yet the album didn't even go gold, and was considered a major disappointment. In March, a judge froze Shyne's assets until lawsuits filed by victims in the case are resolved. 
"These rappers, they somehow have it twisted, they think that if they go to prison, we're going to love them more," said Oark. "It doesn't really happen like that." 
Another penitentiary release, on Koch Records, is the latest album from. C.Murder, the brother of Ma'iter P, who was convicted in 2003 of second-degree murder in the killing of a 16-year-old boy. C-Murder (born Corey Miller) has maintained his innocence and is appealing the verdict. On TUesday he changed his stage name to (:-Miller. 

In a phone interview with The Associated Press shortly after his album W<L'i rnlmt.'ied in late March, Miller said he thought his timn behind bars would help his career: "I think that fans will relat11 to me more becausn I've been through a struggle ... I think they'll respect the fact that I wa'i put in a bad situa­tion." 
However, "If I W<L'> out of prison, I would be able to promote my album morn, I can go on the road and tour," he said. "Actually being in hero is a setback." 
Dash is hoping the notoriety from Sigel's ca'ie will help the respectable-selling rappnr go platinum. Although he certainly doesn't want his star rapper in prison, Dash is shrewd enough to see that Sigel's time behind bars r.an only solidify his street cred -which Dash can't help but play up. 
"Where some rappers glorify things they've never done, or speak about things that they never done, when Beanie speaks he's talking about his emotions, his opinions on things that are going on directly in his life," said Da'ih. "It would be like, what if John Gotti could sing?" 

Billy Idol releases new album at 49 
Associated Press 
Few musicians can boast the level of suecnss that Billy Idol attained in the '80s and early '90s. Unfortunately, the "live hard and die young" punk rock ethos doesn't eome with a middle-age survival guide. 
"When you're young you never think you'll be a 50-year-old rocking out with llw young bands," Idol told The Associatnd J>rnss. 
That's nxaetly what Idol, 49, hopes to bn doing next year. 
The pop-punk patriarch has just rnleasnd "!>evil's Playground," his first l'ull-lnngth album sim~e 199:rs unremark­able "Cyberpunk." With live million-sell­nrs alroady under his belt, Idol hopes "Playground" will return him to the top of tlw charts. 
Whiln not eornpletely ofT the radar in tlw last denuln (appnaring in the stage production of "()uadrophenia" and the film 'The Wedding Singer" in addition to some soundtrack work) thorn worn many rn<L'ions for his lack of original mat11rial in t.hn last dncade. 
"I had a coupln of kids (tonnage son Willmn Wolfn and young daughtnr Bonnin Blun) and laid back during all thn grungn stull'," rnealls Idol, still platinum blond. "I thought, '(;od, how can I compntn with that?'" 
But thn Snattln sound wasn't the only forcn demolishing rock ieons. Arter a rwar-fatal motoreyeln aceidnnt and a serins of overdosns, it was dear tho then­handless Brit was on his own path to sel f-destruetion. 
After some soul searching and painstaking physical rehabilitation, Idol turned to his bike to regroup: "I started to take my motorcycle on long rides and I met my bass player (Stephen McGrath) and we were going off and playing at these biker bars and it took me out of myself." 
While Idol was rediscovering his love for the stage, EMI released his greatest hits to platinum-plus sales. VH1 soon came knocking with "Storytellers" and a "Behind the Music" special. 
It wasn't long before Idol rnmembered his calling. 
"I came ofT the stage and a million girls with their shirts off were there and I thought, 'We've got to do this seriously. Let's forget playing the greatest hits, let's start writing songs!"' 
With longtime collaborators Steve Stevens (guitar) and producer Keith Forsey on board, Idol incorporated new talent Brian Tichy on drums and Derek Sherinian' on keyboards to help reinvigo­rate his so.und. 
The rnsult is a record that aims for the accessibility of Idol's best-selling prede­cessors without losing his list-pumping edgn. Thn vetnran considers it to bo his bost since 1983, with the album's !irst single setting the tonn. 
'"Scream' is 20 years older than 'Hebel Yell' and it's storming out of' the speak­ers," he barks, punctuating his sentenee -as he does most-with a howl. 
As eonlident as he may bn about his music, Idol has no illusions about his age and how he may come on· to crities. 
"They may laugh when they see me," he humbly admits behind his dark glass-es, "you can't make your face look young again but you can work on your body." 

And to counteract the decades of hard living and maintain his eye-catching six­pack, Idol swears by an unyielding exer­cise regimen. 
"I wanted to re-energize myself and I know this sounds a bit Hoger Daltrey but my body is my instrument. I mean in the old days I didn't give a ... but I wannabe really dear-headed and in the moment now. The real drug is on that stage." 
"Don't got me wmng," he quickly adds, "I still smoke pot, I still drink, I'm just not overdoing it. It's about pacing myself so that I can push when I want and pull back when I want." 
Pushing now might not be a bad idea considering today's '80s rock rnvival. "Evnrybody is trying to come baek, I know," he smir·ks, "with what's going on in the world people want a snnse of fun 'cause they are concerned and maybe it's not so bad if I can provide thnm with that." 
Still, despite talks with Vlll, tho l'ornwr MTV lwartthrob plans to continue to resist the urgn to be on rnality TV to jump-start his career likn othnr stars of tho decadent decadn. 
''I'm not that desperate," hn says. "Yet." 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 13, 2005 
MLB 
Burnett flusters Philly, throws complete game 
Percival, Tigers can't overcome Twins; Edmonds gets 1,500th hit as Cards win 
Associated Press will turn in my favor," the left­"That was impressive," bander said. "It has more to do Phillies manager Charlie 
MIAMI-A.J. Burnett threw with me than it does them. I'm Manuel said. "That's what you 103 pitches Tuesday, and not beating myself. If I make good call a lot of talent. He threw a one of them was ball four. pitches, we win." lot of cheese, and he also kept 
Showing uncharacteristic con­Wolf allowed seven hits and the ball in play. They have some trol, Burnett pitched the Florida five runs in six innings. very gocid starters on that staff, Marlins' third complete game of Burnett (1-1) followed the and he's definitely a horse." the season, and their fickle example of teammates Florida's team ERA rose to offense came alive against Dontrelle Willis and Josh 1.52, still best in the major perennial patsy Randy Wolf to Beckett, who threw complete leagues. beat the Philadelphia Phillies 8-games in the first week of the The Phillies' Pat Burrell went 
2. season. Helped by three early 1-for-4, and for the first time 
Burnett, who has averaged double plays, he struck out this season he failed to drive in more than four bases on balls three and tamed a Phillies a run. He leads the majors with per nine innings in his career, offense that was leading the NL 17 RBis. didn't walk a batter. in runs. Lowell homered on a change­
"How about that?" he said. The nine-inning complete up in the fourth to make the "It's different, but I'll take it. It game was Burnett's first since score 2-2. Florida then loaded was a we,ird game. I felt so Aug. 18, 2002, before he under­the bases before Wolf escaped strong, and I had no strikeouts went reconstructive elbow sur­by striking out Burnett with the until the sixth inning. I made gery. 41st pitch of the inning. them hit the ball." "Probably the best game I've 
Mike Lowell and Paul Lo Duca seen him pitch since I've been Twins 5, Tigers 4 hit two-run homers off Wolf, here," said the Marlins' third­The Minnesota Twins finally and Miguel Cabrera hit a solo year manager, Jack McKeon. figured out their ninth-inning homer and drove in two runs. "He did a superb job staying in nemesis, Troy Percival. The Marlins have outscored front and getting guys to make Shannon Stewart hit an RBI opponents 34-2 in their four early contact. He's gradually ground-rule double off Detroit's wins, and they've totaled just learning some things out there." new closer with one out in the six runs in four losses. The same Burnett walked ninth inning, giving the Twins a 
Wolf (0-1) failed to hold a 2-0 nine when he threw a no-hitter victory over the Tigers on lead and fell to 2-11 against the at San Diego in 2001. This time Tuesday night. Marlins with an ERA of 5.76. No he was so economical with his "You start reading about it in the first pitch to center field. retired the side in order in the team has beaten him more. pitches that he was throwing 97 the Guinness Book of World "I just happened to get a good first, third, fourth and fifth and 
''I'm confident that one day it mph in the ninth inning. Records -it's about time we piece of the bat on it," said struck out six with two walks got to him," said Minnesota Stewart, whose ninth-inning before tiring in the seventh. manager Ron Gardenhire, single off Percival in September He was responsible for the whose team got its first earned 2003 helped Minnesota score its Cardinals' early offense, too. run against Percival in 40 1/3 only other run against the clos­Marquis batted .292 last year, career innings. er. Dustan Mohr had to knock leading NL pitchers in hits 
Before Stewart's big hit, over Bengie Molina to score, (21)and finishing second with Percival (0-1) was the only and the catcher was charged nine RBis. He hit a 3-2 fastball active major leaguer with at with an error for dropping the from Aaron Harang just inside least 40 innings logged against ball. the first-base line to clear the one opponent with an ERA of bases and give the Cardinals a zero. Cardinals 5, Reds 1 3-1 lead in the second. 
"I don't care about my per­Jason Marquis hit a bases­Edmonds homered to sonal stats," he said. "That was loaded triple and pitched into straightaway center with two just a bad time to not pitch the seventh inning, leading the outs in the sixth, and two pitch­well." St. Louis Cardinals over the es later Sanders hit his third 
Percival's setup man, Ugueth Cincinnati Reds Tuesday night. over the left-field wall for a 5-1 Urbina, didn't have it, either. Jim Edmonds and Reggie lead. 
Eleven of his first 15 pitches Sanders hit back-to-hack Harang (1-1) lasted six in. the eighth were balls. homers in the sixth inning for iimings, giving up five runs on Bartlett and Joe Mauer walked, the Cardinals, who rebounded five hits. Four of the hits were with Bartlett eventually scoring after a day off from a pair of for extra bases and two of his on Torii Hunter's high-bouncing blowout losses to the Phillies in three walks came at the start of single over third baseman which they gave up 23 runs. the second, setting the table for Brandon Inge's head to tie the Edmonds' second homer of the Marquis. game at 4. season was the 1,500th hit of Joe Randa had two hits and 
With Percival pitching, Lew his career. Felipe Lopez three for the Reds, Ford singled to start the ninth Aside from the second inning who have lost four straight on and moved to second on a sacri­when the Reds scored on Austin the road after a 3-0 start at fice by Michael Cuddyer. Pinch­Kearns' RBI single and left the home. Randa, who doubled and hitter Nick Punto walked, bring­bases loaded, Marquis (1-0) was scored the Reds' lone run in the ing up Stewart -who smacked in control on the mound. He second, is batting .417. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED FoR RENT 
ROADTRIPI Need manual 97 VW DOMUS PROPERTIES Cabrio driven from Chicago to NOW LEASING FOR THE Seattle. Will pay gas & courtesy 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR fee. Must arrive by May 25th. Call ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT Carolyn 90 (847) 612-1710 or WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES hoorey90@ msn.com NEAR CAMPUS. 
2-5-7-8 BEDROOM HOUSES. Roommate to share rent for my STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, 2bdrm apt. 570-814-2716 or email: SECURITY SYSTEMS, mmurph21 @nd.edu WASHER, 
DRYERS. RECEPTIONIST/PHOTO ASST. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. 
Great 6-7 bdrm home available 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail­able NOW. Both Close to ND.W/D,on-site parking. ND Internet Canopy access. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 2,4 & 5 B-Rooms.close to campus, call 234-9923, ask for Rod~ 
3 bdrm house, nicely furnished. 417 Napoleon (off ND Ave.)2 min. from ND. $1100/mo. 2 roommates/1 lam­
ily. Call 299-9428. Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask www.andersonNDrentals.com about FREE student rent program. Blue & Gold Homes (574)250-7653. 5-7 BDRMS.$195/PERSON.SUM­
MER OR 05/06. 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING WASHERIDRYER.329-0308 DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 
S.B. AVE -605 ST. PETER CALL 1-yr sublet 1 bdrm. 10 min.to ND. 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM $500/mo. Email: ngreenbe@nd.edu 
Nice homes close to ND.Great 4-5 bdrm,2 bath house in SB. Lots area.AII amenities. 19237 of room. Call Judy 574-298-6217. Cleveland 6-7bdrm;202 E. Cripe 4bdrm;222 E.Willow Furnished 1-bdrm apt. Free laundry. 3bdrm.2773097 No smokers.no pets. On bus 
route,2 mi to ND. 350+utilities. STUDENT RENTALS $400 PER 289-9365. 
MONTH All utilities, ADT security, phone/cable/DSL, W/D, Lawn serv-2005-06 $250-300/mo. Fum. rooms. ice. 2,3,4,5 bdrms. Avaii.05/06. Call Country setting,10 mi to ND. Non­315-3215 smokers. Private 
entrance,laundry,kitchenette,cable Sub lease our house this summer! & util incl. 289-9365. 
Clean, newer 5-bedroom house for rent this summer. VERY close to Go President Smashley! 
campus on Juniper and partially fur-

Busy photo studio looking ALSO LEASING FOR THE nished. Contact Nell at New jeans, new attitude, new Joe for a motivated, 2006-2007 SCHOOL YEAR -6 BEDROOM Furn houses on Navarre, Marion & nryan7@nd.edu. detail oriented 2-3-4-5-6-7-8-10 BEDROOMS. 3.5 BATH. St. Pete Sts. avail 06-07. 233-9947. Happy Birthday Bechtel receptionist/photo asst. HOUSES GOING QUICK. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1nN. NDAve. Computer, phone, VISIT OUR WEBSITE 1950 PER MONTH + Nice homes close to ND.Great 3bd,1.5 ba,off prkg.,W/D. In the football game of life may your customer service experience WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR DEP. STAFF AND area.AII amenities. 19237 $1300/mo. score always be a tie. preferred. CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234-FACULTY ONLY. Cleveland 6-7bdrm;202 E.Cripe Call Please call Kelly at 259-3262. 2436 OR 574-315-5032. CALL BRUCE 876-3537. 4bdrm;222 EWillow 3bdrm 2773097 2~!9-0149. Michael Squints Palledorous 
' Wednesday, April 13, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
BooKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIV 
Four Guys and a Ninja endures rout by the '96 Packers 
-
said. "If a couple more of my
By KEVIN BRENNAN and 
running throe point shots had 
TOM DORWART 
gone in, maybe the score Spons Writers 
would have been different." Four Guys and a Ninja did 
When Four Guys and a Ninja have one bright spot, however arrived at the McGlinn courts -in the play and comedy of Tuesday night, '96 Packers Kummerer. "Easy E" scored immediately feared that its the team's only point on a time in Books-beautiful baseline torn Basketball lloater. The point would soon eome "You never know guard also enter­to an end. With tained the crowd
when that ninja 
captain David with his demands
will karate chop 
"Doe" l'rina that Everett pass d rc\ssed in an all you. him "that orange hlaek ninja suit spheroid." and shirtless Even Kumm11rer
Mike Knapp

point guard Ed could not stop the
'96 Packers captain 
"Easy E" bleeding, though. Kurnmornr don-'96 Packers ning a top hat, Four Guys and forcnd countless turnovers a Ninja looknd like the most and completely dominated the intimidating hoops squad game, winning 21-1. since the New York Knicks of The fans of Four Guys and a tho rnid-'90s. Ninja wore lel't disappointed 
"I just didn't know if we and despnrately wanting more would bo able to keep up with from their heroes. thmn," '96 Packers captain "I just think the outcome Mike Knapp said. "You never would have been quite differ­know when that ninja will ent if 'Hutgers' had worn karatn.dwp you." overalls," supporter Joe 
Tho game startnd ofT poorly Beesey said. for Four (;uys and a Ninja, Four Guys and a Ninja though. Center and eoaeh vowed to return to Bookstore .John "Butgers" Everett lost Basketball next year with a tlw erueiaf mck, paper, scissor rejuvenated vigor and a competition, giving '96 revamped offense. l'acknrs possossion of the ball. "We will rise like the great Things spiraled out of control phoenix from his ashes," from tiJef!\. "Easy E" said. 
'C)6 l'aekors quiekly jumpfld out to a commanding 5-0 lead. CoCoa Butter 21, Quilted Four Cuys and a Ninja seemnd Northern 3 unable to run the complex Quilted Northern came into motion offense designed by its game against 11th-ranked eoaeh "Hutgers. CoCoa Butter con!"ident it 
"I don't know what to tell would pull off the upset. you," a disappointed Everett "I actually wasn't scared at all," Quilted Northern captain Nick Zerhbach said. "We did­n't even practice this week." 
Quilted Northern's confi­dence could not make up for CoCoa Butter's vastly superior size and basketball skill, though. CoCoa Butter was led by eo-captains Lance Weschor and Celestine "C" Chukumba, along with former Notre Dame wide receiver and current law student Bobby Brown. 
The game was dominated, though, by CoCoa Butter big man Hon Dokes. Dokes, who played basketball for Duquesne last year and now works for NDSP, dominated the boards and wowed the crowed with a flurry of dunks. 
CoCoa Butter hopes to go very deep in this year's tour­nament. 
"We'll be really disappointed if we aren't in the final four," Chukumba said. "We really think we are gonna show these youngsters how ball is played." 
Quilted Northern, on tho other hand, came away sur­prised and disappointed with the loss. 
"If it wasn't for the bever­ages~ we would have beaten them," dejected Quilted Northern forward Drew Whang said. 
We Get Wet 21, The Saltines 12 
Highly-touted, second-ranked We Get Wet warmed up at one end of the court, and little-known freshmen The Saltines shot around at the other. 
But it didn't take long for 
The Saltines to let their veter­an Bookstore opponents know that they were in for a dog­fight in front of a large crowd. 
Freshman Mark Vermeersch nailed a shot beyond the arc to put The Saltines on the board first 1-0, sending the message right away. 
"We knew they were going to be good; we hoard from some commis­sioners that they 
point. 
As the game drew on, the crowd -wh ieh wrapped around the !mtirn court, sev­eral people d11ep -anticipat­ed a close finish. Saltine fans brought a box of saltine crackers for good Iuek. "We hoarded a good 10 dozen saltines leraeknrsl to show our support for the team in t.hnir big gamo, but W!1 just 

should be pretty couldn't think of
"We'll be really 

good," We· Get anything creative Wet captain disappointed ifwe to do with thorn Justin Funk said. aren't in the besides passing 
Early on, it them around,
final four. " 

took some time having people eat for both teams to them and waiv­get used to the Celestine Chukumba ing them in the cold and windy CoCoa Butter player air as noisemak­conditions in the ers," Saltine fan 
evening game, which We Get Wet won 21-12. 
In a gamfl that was doser than the final score indicated, The Saltines played a gritty, man-to-man defense in the opening half, while We Get Wet used a stingy 2-3 zone defense. 
Both defenses held up for awhile, as the score sat at 3-2. But, eventually, the mueh big­ger We Gflt Wet squad pulled ahead for an 11-5 halftimn lead, using stellar shooting to gain the edge. 
"It's tough drawing the sec­ond seed in the second round. They shot the lights out," Saltines captain Chris Lund said. "It must have been 80 percent." 
The hot shooting continued in the second half, but the live freshmen clawed away at tho lead, cutting it to 13-8 at one 
Chris Liedl said. "At least we did got a 'Which way'? That way' cheer in." 
The players appreeiated the large, enthusiastic crowd. 
"That was swent. Unfortunately, W!\'ro not going any farther," Lund said. 
And, though they might have been a little worried at first, We Get Wnt players appreciat­ed the competition. 
"It's too bad they IThe Saltines] couldn't have been ranked, so we could've played in the round of 32 or 64 with refs, so we could've had a bet­ter game. I think they wer11 all freshmen, so they lthe com­missioners I might not have heard of them," Funk said. "They were a good team." 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu and Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

Monk's Farewell Mass Sunday, April 17th 9:00 p.m. at the JACC All students are invited to attend "Monk's Farewell Mass." Mass will be followed by a reception in honor of Fr. _Mal1oy in the JACC Monogram Room, featuring: ~Live performance by the Chicago band MAGGIE SPEAKS~ ~Fr. Malloy will be on hand to greet students~ ~reatfood~ Cotne celebrate with Monk and thank him for 18 years of service to the Student Body of the University of Notre Dame.  

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 13, 2005 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Houston rookies share friendship, big dreams 
the Astros are confident he'll handle it together. major league roster. He shuf­during those days in the
Luke Scott and Willie 

get over these early struggles. Their friendship was forged fled between Class A Salem minors. Scott and Taveras Taveras pair up as He led the club during spring in the spring of 2002 when and Round Hock in 2004, lead­have lockers next to each training with seven homers Scott was sent to Cleveland's ing the Houston system with a other in a corner of the club­2/3 of Astros outfield and 20 RBis. Class A team in combined 97 house. 
"Who knows? We might have Columbus, Ohio. As HBis and rank­They're living together again 
a rookie of the year," general one of the new play­"I didn't know ing third with after moving into an apart­
Associated Press 

manager Tim Purpura said. ers on the club, 27 homers. ment Saturday -this time
anybody and I was 
The Astros certainly didn't Scott sought out A month with a twist.
looking for 
HOUSTON -Willy Taveras plan to have so many rookies Taveras, a native of later, Scott left Taveras, true to his low-key and Luke Scott became team­in the lineup, not with veter­the Dominican someone to throw training camp style, decided marry his girl­mates and best friends three ans Jeff Bagwell and Craig Republic, using with a new No. friend of two years last
with. We became 
springs ago, bonding quickly Biggio still hoping to reach some of the Spanish 30 uniform and Wednesday. The three plan to
running partners 
over their dream of making it their first World Series after he learned as a a starting spot live together for now. 
to the big leagues. losing to St. Louis in the NL schoolboy in from there. " in left field, "All you've got to do is just They shared apartments, championship series last year. Florida. where Biggio get a license. You can go run hotel rooms, home-cookea But Purpura and manager "I didn't know played last sea­out and get a license," Taveras
Luke Scott
meals, and most often encour­Phil Garner had little choice anybody, and I was son before explained, with Scott teasing
Astros leftfielder 
agement during because All-Stars looking for someone moving back to him in the background. their grueling Jeff Kent and to throw with," second base. "Yeah, I'm getting married years in the "To me, I don't put Beltran left to Scott said. "We "I had a noth­next week. How about that?" minors. Taveras become free became running partners from ing-to-lose attitude," Scott Scott said jokingly.
pressure on myself
and Scott were agents. Also, a there." said. "I wa.sn't even really On a close-knit club that has
I know that I can
even traded third All-Star, The 26-year-old is more out­being considered for the open­been led for nearly two together, going play out there." right fielder going, a graduate of Oklahoma ing-day lineup or even being decades by veterans such as last spring from Lance Berkman, State and a fastidious worker on the team. Just being Bagwell and Biggio, the Astros the Cleveland is recovering who keeps a notebook of the relaxed helped me play to the have eagerly embraced this
Willie Taveras 
Indians to the from offseason pitches thrown to him. way I was capable of." latest infusion of youth.
Astros centerfielder 
Houston Astros knee surgery. Taveras, meanwhile, seems They get to live their dream. "The kids have made things for pitcher The losses younger than his 23 years, together, just as they planned interesting," Garner said. 
Jeriome Robertson. forced Garner to flashing a smile that reveals 
Taveras and Scott achieved go with an entirely new start­braces and speaking only in their dream together, too, i-ng outfield of Taveras, Scott whispers on those rare occa­making an improbable leap and unproven second-year sions when he does talk in the from Double-A to become the player Jason Lane. clubhouse. first pair of Houston rookie Garner went through a But Taveras also has outfielders to start on opening decade of experience manag­unshakable confidence and day in nearly 20 years. ing young -and bad -teams dazzling talent that made the 
"From our beginning on, in Milwaukee and Detroit, but Astros comfortable with the we've been together," Scott has slowly warmed to the idea idea of him replacing Beltran said. "We're similar. We're not of going through another -even though he was making big into distractions. We like to rebuilding process in Houston. the rare jump from Double-A keep things simple." "Let me put it this way: Round Rock. 
Taveras has been particular­You'd like to have a lot of vet­"I feel real comfortable," ly effective during a 4-2 start, erans on your team," Garner Taveras said. "To me, I don't batting .429 and providing the said. "That would be your first put pressure on myself. I know speed in center. field the Astros choice. "I like challenges, but that I can play out there." thought they lost when Carlos I've had this challenge before." Scott was more of a spring Beltran left in the offseason. This challenge, however, is surprise, coming to training 
Scott has played like a nerv• new for Taveras and Scott. camp with uniform No. 67 and ous rookie, batting .214, but Luckily for them, they get to little chance of making the 


All captains of boats in The Fisher Regatta must attend the captains' meeting: 
Wednesday, April 13th 7:00pm Montgomery Theater (1st floor Lafortune) 


HOT GIRLS~ 1·1GHT CLOTHES. 
Now that we have your attention ... 
Dance Company of Notre Dame presents 

''Pulse•• 
TONIGHT Washington Hall 7:00 
Tix $3 General or $5 VIP seating. Available at the door or by emailing Ashley at alucches@nd.edu 



• 
lst place: $75 2nd place:$50 3rd place: $25 

Show runsAprill5-17 
•

Entries due Wednesday, Aprill3 Open to all students -All media accepted Interested'? Contact <Kclly.A.Crecelius.l@nd.edu> 
• 

' 

WeJnesday, April 13, 200'5 
NBA 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic 

t.oam  nword  pnn~.  last 10  (IB  
Boston  41·35  .539  4-6  
Philadelphia  39·37  .513  7-3  2.0  
New Jersey  38-39  .494  7-3  3.5  
Toronto  31·46  .403  3·7  10.5  
New York  30·46  .395  1·9  11.0  

Eastern Conference, Central 

(.Pillll n~corcl JWrl". last ·10 GB Detroit 50·27 .649 8·2 Chicago. 44-33 .571 8-2 6.0 Indiana 42·35 .545 8-2 8.0 Cleveland 40-37 .519 5-5 10.0 Milwaukee 29·48 .377 2-8 21.0 
Eastern Conference, Southeast 
t('illll n•c·ord P<'rt~ . last 10 GB Miami 56·21 .727 5·5 Washington 42·35 .545 5-5 14.0 Orlando 35·42 .455 3·7 21.0 Charlotte 16-61 .208 2·6 40.0 Atlanta 12·65 .156 1·9 44.0 
Western Conference, Northwest 
l.t•am n~corrl pnre . last 10 CB Seattle 50·27 .649 3·7 Denver 46-31 .597 9·1 4.0 Minnesota 40-37 .519 7·3 10.0 Portland 25·51 .329 2·8 24.5 Utah 24·52 .316 4-6 25.5 
Western Conference, Pacific 

l.oam fiW.ord pore. last 10 GB Phoenix 56·19 .753 7·3 Sacramento 48·30 .615 7·3 10.5 L.A. Clippers 34·43 .442 4-6 24.0 
L.A. Lakers 34·44 .436 2·8 24..5 Golden State 31·47 .397 8·2 27.5 
Western Conference, Southwest 
tnam rocord pc~rc:. last 10 GB San Antonio 57·20 .740 7-3 Dallas 53-24 .688 8-2 4.0 Houston 47·31 .603 6·4 10.5 Memphis 44·33 .571 5·5 13.0 New Orleans 18·56 .237 3-7 36.5 
College Softball Big East Conference 

team conj record 
Seton Hall 6·2·0 19·10·0 
NOTRE DAME 4·0·0. 24·8·0 
Syracuse 4-2-0 16·12·0 
Boston College 3·3·0 13·15-0 
Connecticut 3·7·0 11-18-0 
Providence 3·1·0 23·8·0 
Pittsburgh 2·2-0 15·11-0 
St. John's 2·4·0 15-21-0 
Villanova 2·4·0 24-16·0 
Rutgers 1·5·0 1-27-0 
Women's MIAA Tennis 
t(•am league N'cord 
1 Hope 4-0 8·7 
2 Albion 3·0 12-3 
3 Calvin 2·1 7-4 
4 Kalamazoo 2-1 7-6 
5 Olivet 1-1 6·5 
6 ST. MARY'S 1-1 3-6 
7 Alma 0·4 3-10 
8 Tri-State 0-5 2·11 

around the dial 
NBA 

Chicago at Washington, 7 p.m., ESPN Dallas at Seattle, 9:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 

San Diego at Chicago Cubs (DH), 12 p.m., WGN New York at Boston, 6 p.m., ESPN2 
AROUND THE NATION 
CoMPILED FROM THE Ot~SERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
NCAA 


Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Tho 
NCAA Division I 
Managemcmt Council has 
backed legislation that 
would allow Division 1-A 
and f-AA schools to add a 
12th football game starling 
with the 200(, season. 
The plan was !,riven tonta­
tive approval by the eoundl 
at its mooting on Monday 
and will be sent to the 
NCAA Board of Directors 
for final consideration April . 2S. 
Division I vice prnsidnnt 
David Borst said Tunsday he 
didn't know whether tho 
NCM board would go along 
with the c:ouncil's rncom­
rnnndation, which was 
opposod only by the Atlantic Coast Conference among I­A conliwences. 
"I would oxpeet there will be more discussion," Berst said. "The board should have the frendom to make its own dndsion." 
Thorn was no discussion of tho issue at tho council's meeting. 
"Tho various confnrencos came to the mooting pre­parnd to vote, and we just tallied the votns," Berst said. 
Hon Wollman, tho athletic dirnct.or at Wake Forest and chairman of the ACC's ath­lotie directors, said many of the conference's concerns demit with academies. 
"We believe the season is long enough at ·11 ganws, and we aetually onjoy tho bye week," he said. 
Tho eoundl also approved logislation for more llexiblo recruiting calondars in men's baskotball and inernasod tho numbnr of scholarships for womon in gymnastics, soccer, volley­ball and track and liold. It also voted to grant anotlwr year of eligibility to playnrs who were academically ineligible as froshmen but had completod SO percent of their dngron requirc~­nwnts artcw four yoars. 
No action was taknn on tho length of the season in basketball becausn of a pending court ease, Borst said. 
Thn 12-ganw proposal in football was among morn than I00 itnms eonsidnrNI by tho eoundl. 
Curmntly, Division I foot­ball tnams play I I l'l~gular­snason gamos nxc~opt in years wiH•n tlwrn arn 14 Saturdays from tlw l'irst pnrmissihlo playing datP through tlw last playing datn in Novombnr. Tlw 2002 and 201H seasons qualifiod for thn nxtra gamo, but without tlw now lngislation, Llw noxl would not bn until 200S . 
Tho baskntball proposals wnro suhmitt.ml last yc~ar by tho National Association of Baskntball Coaehns and tlw Womon's Baskntball Assodation. 
IN BRIEF 

Rain postpones Prior's 
debut, forces doubleheader 
CIIICAGO -Mark Prior had to wait an extra day to make his 2005 debut. 
Hain caused postponnment of Tunsday's game bntwnnn tho San Dingo Padres and Chicago Cubs. 
The game was rnscheduled as part of a doubleheader Wednesday start­ing at I :05 p.m. ET. Chicago's Kerry Wood will face Jake Peavy in tho opener. Prior, activatod from tim dis­ablnd list Tuesday, pitchns against San Diogo's Brian Lawrnnce in tho soeond game. 
Prior and Peavy had been scheduled to start Tuesday, when the tempera­turn at Wrigley Field was in thfl upper 40s. 
"You'd rather have good condi­tions," Wood said. "llopnfully, tomor­row we have a niee day and we get both games both gamns in and we gnt good pitching." 
Prior and Cubs manager Dusty Baker worn not availabln after the rainout was announced. 
"''d have liked to have gotten this one in today," Padrns managnr Bruen Bochy said. 
Prior wont on the disabled list Mareh 25 due to inllammation in his rj_ght elbow. 
colorado to introduce new 
athletic director 
San Di1~go State athlntic director Mike Bohn has agreod to return homo to take tho samn post within Colorado's troubled department. 
Bohn will be introduced as tho replacement for Dick Tharp on Wednesday, said a university source familiar with the negotiations who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
The 44-year-old Boulder, Colo., native has a tremendous task. repairing tho damage done by sean­dais within thn football program that contributed to the departure of Tharp, chancellor Hiehard Byyny and university president Bntsy lloll'man. 
Bohn, who graduated from Boulder High School and whose mother still lives in Boulder, met with reporters in California on Monday to discuss thn possibility that he would lnavn San Dingo Statn, wlwrn hn snrved as AD for about 1 S months. 
NFL adopts new standards 
for testoslerone use 
DALLAS -Tlw NFL and its play­nr·s havn agreed l.o follow st.rict.Pr standards for tnstostnronn lovPis for tho start of next snason. 
Thn upgrade, whieh rnquirnd the approval of tho N Fl. Players Assoeiation, had bonn oxpcw.tnd to be adoptnd but not until twxt month. whnn thn NFL and tlw union hold their annual discussions about nwis­ing the drug program. llownvnr, comrnissionnr Paul Tagliabue said Tunsday that the union had approvnd the new standards, which continuo its practice of using tlw guidelinns snt by the Olympies. 
"I know we've readwd some pre­liminary agremnents with thn play­ers last week and wn'll probably finalize them next wonk," Tagliabun said. 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 13, 2005 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles ready for upcoming meet 
By KATE SERYAK Sports Writer 
The Belles take on the Kalamazoo Hornets today in their third conference match of the season. Following its frustrating loss to Hope College last week, the team is fired up and ready for its next confer­

ence challenger. "We were hoping to that you can't "We were hoping beat Hope, so the develop dur­
to beat Hope, so ing practice," 
fact that we lost to
the fact that we Palombo lost to them was a them was a said. "We're wake-up call," wake-up call.,, going to go captain Kristen out and make Palombo said. "So up ground
Kristen Palombo 
hopefully we can that we lost go into the Belles captain last week." 
es of the season too," Palombo said. 
Although the season is still young, the Belles are begin­ning to get a clear picture of what future conference match-ups will be like. 
"Our focus now it to get our girls experience which will help tbem gain mental tough­ness during match play 
Kalamazoo match with a little vengeance so that last week's match is the last match we lose." 
The Belles have started the season with a 1-1 conference record. Kalamazoo has had a similar start to the season with a record of 2-1. suffer­ing its first conference loss to Albion last week. 
"Hope is ranked really well right now, but they haven't been challenged yet. Kalamazoo is in our boat because they've lost one of their first conference match-As for the 

team's sea­son-ending goals, "the con­ference tournament is up in the air and we want to show other teams what we are made of then," Palombo said. "We are looking more toward the tournament instead of the conference title, any confer­ence wins during regular season will be icing on the cake for us." 
The match is set to begin at 3 p.m. today in Kalamazoo. 
Contact Kate Seryak at kseryak@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Saint Mary's still in midst of slUlllp 
Long winless streak extends with losses to Calvin College 
By BRIAN CARDILE Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's dropped both games of a doubleheader Tuesday against conference leader Calvin College. The Belles never led on the after­noon, falling 6-3 and 11-2. 
"I thought we played very well; we had goals and we achieved them, but we could­n't do the little things when it mattered," Belle Sarah Miesle said. 
The losses were the 12th 

and 13th in a row for the struggling squad, and the team's last win came over a month ago -on March 10 against Emmanuel College. The Belles' record now stands at 5­16 overall and 0-8 in the MIAA con­ference. 
In the first game, Saint 
the Belles were one out away the next two innings and from taking the game into the eventually took the game 6-3. fifth inning tied at zero. But In the second game, Saint Knight Laurel Sands reached Mary's once again stayed 
base on an error by McKenna Corrigan and Lea Bareman scored from second base. Then, on the strength of two more two-out hits, the Knights pushed a pair of runs across to take a 3-0 lead. 
"We've had opportunities to w.in in every game we've been in., 
Sarah Miehle Saint Mary's player 
Without the two-out error, the Belles would have gone back into the dugout tied and look­ing to take the lead. Instead, they had to battle from behind like they have many times this season. 
But battle they did, 

"! thought we played very well; we had goals and we achieved them, but we couldn't do the little things when it mattered.'' 
Sarah Miesle Saint Mary's player 
responding in the top of the fifth with two runs. After Sarah Miesle and Audrey Gajor singled, Laura 1-Ieline doubled to cen­ter field to bring home both base runners. 
"We've had opportunities to win in every game we've 

Mary's kept the game close, been in," Miesle said. but inconsistent play once This was no exception, as again kept the victory just out the Belles were within one, of reach. After holding Calvin but they could not get closer. scoreless for three innings, Calvin scored three runs in close early, but in the top of the third the Knights broke the game open with six runs on four hits. Bel-les' pitcher McKenna 
Corrigan  also  
issued  two  
walks  in  the  

inning, and the team once again found itself in a hole too deep to escape. 
In the bottom of the inning, Miesle connected for the Belles' only hit of the game, doubling to center to score Meghan Marenkovic, who had reached base on a walk. Calvin scored three out of the next four times they were up 
to  bat, and the final  score  
was 11-2.  
The  losses  drop  Saint  

Mary's to 0-8 in the MIAA conference, but the Belles return home hopeful to improve their record again conference foe Hope College. 
"I think we're playing good ball ... we're gonna get some breaks one of these days," said a confident Miesle. 
The game will start at 3:30 
p.m. Thursday at the Saint Mary's Softball Diamond. 
Contact Brian Cardile at bcardile@nd.edu 


Wednesday, April 13, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
STEROID POLICY 
Leagues turn over testing papers 
-, 
NO WOMEN'S ROWING 
Weather cancels 
the MSU regatta 
The team last competed on
By KYLE CASSILY 
April 9 against Purdue and 
Sports Writer 
Indiana in Indianapolis. 
The Irish will next host 
Tho Notrn Dame women's row­Cincinnati Sunday in its sole ing toam will not face Michigan horne regatta of' the year. The Statn today dun to high winds regatta will take place on St. and bad WPathnr. Tho rngatta in Joseph Hivnr in downtown South East Lansing, Mid1., was can­Bend. 
cPIPd on Tuesday. Plans to rnsdwduln the regatta are still unknown at this time. 

Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -The NBA and NllL were among six groups that turned over docu­ments about their drug-testing policies to the congressional committee looking into steroids in sports. 
The House Government Heform Committee had sot Tuesday as a deadline for get­ting information about drug programs and test results. Major League Soccer, the ATP, USA Track & Field and the U.S. Soccer Federation responded in time, while USA Cycling asked for and was granted an extension because of' a snowstorm near its head­quarters. 
The NFL was given until last Friday, and turned in its doeu­rnents then. 
"Committee investigators are reviewing these documents, 
and they  are  continuing to  
examine  the  documents  
received  from  the  NFL  on  

Friday," committee chairman Tom Davis of Virginia and 
ranking Democrat Henry Waxman of' California said in a statement. "We will withhold comment until our review of documents is complete." 
In letters sent to the various 
. sports, tlw committee asked for information such as tlw number of drug tests each year, the number of positivn results and which substances are tested for. The letters speeil'ied that the committnn wants "summary information, and docs not rnquire identifi­cation of individual players." 


NDE #86 Tonight, 1OPM Friday-Sunday COMO Lounge FAITHPOINT Sacred Heart Parish Center Four:l Topic: Keeping Christ at the Center of Your Life
Wednesday, April 13, 2005 
Lead Kindly Light: 

Prayers from the Campus Ministry Prayer Book
-X-LIVE IT!!-X-----.1 
Lord God, Father of mercy and source of life, you call us from the whole world to celebrate This past Sunday, Sarah Roseberry, a senior in Pasquerilla East with renewed fervor the great mystery of the Eucharist,
came into full communion with the Catholic Church. Baptized Methodist, memorial for all time of the Passover of your Son.
Sarah went through the Notre Dame RCIA program to prepare for her conversion. Instrumental in her decision was her friend and sponsor, Eleigh Radighan. 
With gratitude in our hearts from the salvation, Sarah and Eleigh met at Notre Dame and studied together in Chile for a semester. Abroad they 
which has been given us, we ask you confidently:grew closer as friends as they searched for wholeness and understanding of the truth. Together they make us one body in Christ.
attended Mass, it was there that Sarah discovered the cross cultural and universal nature of the May we live the divine life, which he obtained for us
Catholicism. Mass was the same in Chile as it was back on campus. With the help of her friend Eleigh, Sarah discovered she was a "closet Catholic." 
at the price of his blood. As a Candidate-Sponsor pair, Sarah and Eleigh really enjoyed the process. Recently, they locked themselves in the library to research a Confirmation name for Sarah. After extensive searching, 
Enlivened by his Holy Spirit, we will proclaim to the the dynamic duo agreed that Margaret of Scotland would be a strong model of faith for Sarah. 
world the wonders of your love.
Congratulations and Welcome, Sarah Margaret. Thanks Eleigh! 
We make this prayer through jesus Christ your Son, who was born of the Virgin and who lives and reigns 
Fourth Sunday of Easter 
with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God forever and ever. 
1st: Acts 2: I, 4a, 36-41 2nd: I Peter 2:20b-25 Gospel: john I 0: 1-1 0 
Amen. 
Eucharistic Church, as Fr. John Catholic Q&A placed in a monstrance altar, the procession returns to Processions are an extension Hardon relates, that "the which the priest then car­the church, where the priest
What is a Eucharistic
of the Catholic practice of Eucharistic elements ries in procession, fol­blesses the people with the Eucharistic Adoration. were literally Jesus lowed by the congrega­Eucharist once more before Eucharistic Adoration is the Christ continuing His tion singing devotional reposing it in the tabernacle. 
Procession? 
spiritual discipline of spending saving mission among hymns. Altar servers If you happen to time in contemplation and wor­[His people]." The practice of 
faith in Jesus lead the procession with candles encounter a Eucharistic ship of Jesus Christ fully pres­praying before the reserved Christ and and incense and often support a Procession but cannot partici­ent under the appearance of Sacrament in the tabernacle or their devotion canopy over the priest and the pate, common practice is to gen­bread and wine in the 
exposed in a monstrance (a ves­to the Eucharist. After leaving the ~flect or kneel out of respect for Eucharist, which is reserved in sel used to hold the Eucharist for Eucharist, church, the procession normally the Eucharist, until the procession our churches and chapels. The public viewing) developed in the which is the stops at four separate altars, has passed. belief in this "Real Presence" of eleventh century and has contin­very source where prayers and Gospel read­Christ in the Eucharist grew out ued to be popular ever since. and summit ings are read. At each altar, the of the writings of Paul and the Eucharistic Processions of the Faith. priest blesses those present with four evangelists. Their teach­give Christians a unique opportu­Immediately the Eucharist before the proces­
Send your questions to 

ing made it clear to the early nity to give public witness to their following Mass, the Eucharist is sion moves on. After the fourth Perkins.26@nd.edu 
'Eucharistic Adoration (12-7 PM, COMO Chapel) 
'Sant'Egidio Prayer Community 


*Eucharistic Procession (3 PM 

*NDE #86 (see above) 
~ 
(5:30 PM, Log Chapel) 
*Eucharistic Adoration (12-7 PM, 

Mass, Basilica Crypt, then cross­

*Eucharistic Adoration (12-7 PM,'Mission Trip Info Session: St. Peter
c COMO Chapel) COMO Chapel) 
Indian Reservation; Bapchule, AZ (8 

campus procession) 0 PM, Cavanaugh 1st floor lounge) 
*Vigil Mass (5 PM Basilica)
a:

1-• Four:? (see above) 
LL. 
'Theology on Tap (10 PM, Legends) Topic: "Stump the Priest" 
*1 0 AM Mass (Basilica) *11 :45 PM Mass (Basilica) *Basilica Tour for Protestant Students (2-4 PM, meet at Basilica) 


~ 
CM

c *Eucharistic Adoration (12-7 PM, *Eucharistic Adoration (12-7 PM,*Law School Mass (5 PM, Law 
z 
COMO Chapel) . 
COMO Chapel) 

Campus Ministry 'MBA Mass (7 PM, Mendoza School Chapel) 
0 
Main Office 3 19 CoMo 
Faculty Lounge) 
:E 
Retreats Office I 14 CoMo
*Goodbye Mass for Fr. Malloy (9 PM, JACC) 
1-7800 or http://campusministry.nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 13, 2005 
SMC GoLF 
Playing close to home leaves Belles confident 
By ANNA FRICANO Sports Writer 

After a respectable but some­what disappointing finish at the Tri-State University Invitational on Saturday, the Belles will remain close to home today as they compete at Bethel College for the NAIA-NCM Invite. 
The team finished in third place overall at Tri-State with a team score of 337. Senior Stefanic Simmerman fmished with an indi­vidual score of 79 and led the way for the Belles with a fourth place individual fmish. The score was enough to earn Simmerman a place on the all-tournament team, but the Belles were unsatisfied with their loss to NCM contender Depauw University. 
"We were a little disappointed losing to Depauw. We know that course very well, but we were a little overconfident going into Saturday," Simmerman said. 
With head coach Mark Hamilton on a brief hiatus, the team struggled somewhat with individual scores. 'llowever, Saint Mary's still finished ahead of 14 of the 17 teams in the tournament. and the invite did no harm to their chances for the NCAA Championship. 
Today's competition has the advantage of being in South Bend, and the team has tried to use their advantage as much as possi­ble in the past week, going out to the course daily to get a feel for the greens. 
Simmerman feels fairly confi-· dent in the compatibility oftoday's course with her and her team­mates. 
"I think the course will couple well with the way our team plays; there are some longer par Ss, which we can play fairly well on," Simmerman said. 
The amount of par Ss as well as par 3s on this afternoon's course ought to offer a lot of birdie opportunities for the Belles, which may be just what they need. As a team, Saint Mary's is trying to work on improving individual scores, which have been some­what sporadic so far this season. 
In the two events the Belle'S have competed this spring, scores have generally ranged from mid-80s to mid-to high­70s. 
Simmerman's 79 on Saturday was the lowest individual score of the spring season, and the team would like to sec more like that from everyone. Their goal is to come in today with some great individual scores, in the mid-to high-70s. 
Saint Mary's is in prime position for the NCAA tournament. The top two teams in each region earn a spot in the tournament, and Saint Mary's is in second place in the MIAA, behind only Depauw. 
Contact Alma Fricano at AfricaO1@saintmarys.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish await C~hio State meet 
Coach Bobby Bayliss knows Buckeyes are better than ranking 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Sports Writer 
At first glance, Notre Dame's final regular-season match against No. 30 Ohio State seems like a welcome change from facing the likes of No. 2 Virginia, No. 4 Illinois and No. 4 Duke. 
But Irish coach Bobby Bayliss is quick to point out the dan­gerous Buckeye team lurking behind that unassuming rank­ing. 
"They're a very good team ­quarterfinalists in last year's NCAAs and returning five of six starters," Bayliss said. "They were ranked No. 11 or 12 in the beginning of the year, and they've lost some 4-3 matches to teams that have ended up being pretty good. I would think that they're the second best team in the Big Ten to Illinois, who's ranked No. 4. I expect we'll have our hands full, but it's not a match that we won't have a chance to win." 

The No. 29 Irish (1'6-6) have · had success against Big Ten opponents this season. With a solid 6-1 record against Big Ten foes thus far, Notre Dame faces one final challenge from that conference later today in Columbus, Ohio. 
Ohio State (13-6) has faced a tough schedule this season. All six of their losses have come at the hands of top-20 opponents. With two consecutive losses to the Buckeyes in their last two meetings, the Irish have some added motivation to swing the series momentum back in their favor. 
"Th~ challenge is that they are clearly a very experienced team," Bayliss said. "Number one, they play great doubles, and they're a thoroughly pre­pared team. Ty Tucker, their coach, does a great job of get­ting them to play, so I know they'll be excited to play us." 
The primary challenge for the Irish will be trying to get on the board early. Ohio State boasts the No. 1 doubles team in the nation -juniors Scott Green and Ross Wilson. The Buckeyes have shuffled their doubles lineup this year, mov­ing one of their top doubles players last year -Joey Atas -to the No. 3 team. 
"What they've done is shifted some of their personnel around," Bayliss said. "Scott Green and Ross Wilson at No. 1 have won the National Indoors and the Fall All-American ­two-thirds of the college triple crown lin doubles!. By moving Joey down to No. 3, that gives them a lot of balance." 
This move echoes a similar strategy employed by the Irish in the past month. Since com­pletely reshuffling their dou­bles lineup, the Irish have won the doubles point for the last three matches. Prior to this string of doubles wins, the team had dropped its last four matches. 
"We're hoping that we can keep that up," Bayliss said. "We've done pretty well at No. 3 doubles since we changed our personnel around. We still feel that Brent [D'Amico] and Eric [Langenkamp] are our most talented team, yet they haven't clicked. So maybe this is the day they turn it around. The key for us getting a great effort at No. 1 doubles and keeping the balance we've had at No.2 and No.3." 
In their last match against Ball State, the Irish thrived on great singles play. The team got strong straight-set wins in live of the six singles matches. Balancing solid play in both the singles and doubles matehes should be the key for the Irish in today's match. 
"I just think that anytime you have a chance to play a team that was lin theI final eight last year and returns five of six starters, you've got to be excit­ed about the opportunity in front of you," Bayliss said. 
The Irish will try to capitalize on that opportunity as they dose out their regular-season schedule on the road against the Buckeyes. Game time is set for 4 p.m. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu.@nd.edu 

Law& • • • 
An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series 
April 13, 2005 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom 
Classical Architecture and Traditional Urbanism: Sustainability Trumps Style 
Presenter Michael Lykoudis 
School ofArchitecture 
Commentator Nicole Stelle Garnett 
The Law School 

Wednesday, April 13, 200'5 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Fullback 
continued from page 24 
It is that typP of' diVtwsity that thn Irish eoaehing stall' is hoping 
t.o gnt out of' Pownrs-Nnal this ynar. 
In spring practicns, Pownrs­NPal has hnnn usnd as a half­hack as wl'll as a l'ullhack. and should gl'l signifkant limn play­ing as tlw f'ormnr. 
I r ish oI' I' ons i v ~~ coo r d i n ato r and running backs coach Michanl llaywood spoko about thn I'Xpand!'d roln Powors-Nnal would havn in this ynar's oll'Pnsn. 
"Tiw thing that wn'm trying to do is making surn that in dill'or­l'nt JWrsonrwl groups, lw gets to rarry tlw hall and also putting him in situations wlwn ho's in thorn wlwn hn can do a littln bit morl' pass protncting whnn wn havl' rnatr.h up concPrns," I faywood said. 
llaywood would not spneil'y wlwtlwr Powers-NI'al was pri­marily playing at hall'back or l'ullhack, and gavo littlo iildica­tion ol' what tho possibln dnpth rhart looks likn at nilhnr posi­tion. 
"I think that with tlw rotation of' tailbacks, wn'rn rotating guys in at tailback and gntting guys a lot of' rnps," I faywood said. 
"We don't have a certain depth chart ... wn'rn just rotat­ing guys in and seeing what plays that thoy run the best," he added. "Cnrtain guys may run tho inside zonn tho best, certain guys may run tho draw the best, and certain guys might run the outside stmtch bPtter than oth­ers." 
The coaching staff' isn't the only group exeitnd about the possibility of' using Powers-Neal in roles other than run blocking and pass protection. 
The senior mrming back from St. Paul, Minn. is also optimistic and happy about his nnw roln in the ofl'ensn. 
"It's a whole lot of fun just being able to go out there and compnte with all my teammatns and make nvnrybody better," l'ownrs-Nnal said of his tailback dutins. 
Powers-Neal understands that at this point in thn spring, his role is undnlinnd -othnr than that hn will be on the lield. 
"I just have to work on kenp on improving, make surn I'm ~topping .~ny game up and play­rng hard. 
As a senior, there is a fair 
Students Call Before You Pack!!! Free delivery on boxes and supplies 

Wt als,, have supplies At Main •nd Mr.Kiuley S<olf StorAfl" 707 F.. McKinley Ave 
Ma-·shawaka,
INj6~5·4S 
. 
. ,, . 
.' 

Cheap boxes!!! As low as $1.00 
Tel: 574-256-5339 
Climate control, 24 hours ac:cf'...'t,, videa ~urveillance, Rsi~t mauager, great mt:es... 
'amount of pressurn on Powers­Neal to be a team leader, to set an example and to teach his younger teammatns. To a cer­tain degree, the maturation of Darius Walker and Travis Thomas rests on the senior full­back's shouldors. 
"They are easy to bloek for; both of them aro exeollent run­ning backs," Powers-Neal said. "Basically I'm just trying to go out thoro and make sure they stay focused and makn sure they got their plays down and make sure that are giving it their 100 percnnt every play." 
With Powers-Neal's roln com­ing into the season a bit vague, thorn is room for other l'ullbaeks to stop up and work their .way into the rotation. 
Ashley 'McConnoll was one name that llaywood mentioned as a player who is performing well this spring. 
Hegardless of whether Powers-Neal is getting the majority of his reps as a hall'­baek or a fullback, he clearly has his priorities straight head­ing into thn season. 
"I want to win every game and go undefeated," Powers-Neal said. "Personally, I just want to be able to step my game up and be one of the top tier players and bn a differene1~-maker out thoro on the lield. I want be a leader and mako everyone around mn bettor." 
Notes 
+Arter speaking about Anthony Fasano's importance to this year's team, Weis was asked about Mark Bavaro, the tight end who Weis coached when he was with the New York Giants. 
"lie was probably the toughest player that I've ever seen as an ol'l'ensive player," Weis said. "llnre's a guy who was playing with a cadaver bonn in his leg at the nnd of his earner." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Batteast 
continued from page 24 
At the banquet, attended by more than 400 people, MeGraw talked about tho sea­son, which started strong as the Irish won tho Preseason WNIT, defeating then-No. 6 Duke in the semifinals and then-No. 10 Ohio State for tho title. Thn Irish wont on to lin­ish seeond in tho Big East Confernnee, behind only Rutgers and ahead of Connecticut. Notre Damn beat Connecticut 65­59 at Gampel 
Associate <~oach Carol Owens, who will leave the Irish to be tlw head coach at Northern Illinois next year, was rmnembnred fondly by both MeGraw and the seniors. 
"Pnopln didn't think I could do it lplay at this physkal of' a Ieveii," Batteast said to lwr post eoaeh. "But you gave mn the tools to sueennd." 
And amidst the honors, the stars of' the evening were Battnast and Borton. 
Batteast gave an mnotional spneeh, thanking her family, thn assistant eoaehes and calling M<~Graw "the pm-f'nct coach" l'or hnr. She said lwr 

Pavilion .Jan. 30, timn at Notre
"It is difficult to 

tlw lirst time the Damn has pre­
believe that my

Huskies lost a pan~d hnr l'or Big East game on dream has come lifo. their home eourt "My carnnr
and gone."

in 112 games. hero at Notn~ McGraw talked I> am n is do rw,
Teresa Borton

about eaeh of and I'm exeitml, her 11 players, Irish senior anxious and 
the first being freshman Charel Allen, who suffered a torn ACL and MCL in her lnl't knnn in the 11nal game of tho sea­son, a 70-61 loss to Arizona State in the second round ol' the NCAA Tournament. 
"I thought onn of tho biggest surprises, best surprises, was Charnl Allen," McGraw said of the freshman who stnppml up in big games all season. "We are really eonlident Charol is going to rehab her knno and bn back for us next year." 
McGraw also spoke highly of hnr junior point guard, Megan Duffy, who earned the Knutn Hockne Scholar-Athletn Award for her performance in the classroom. 
"I don't think I've ever coached a player with more heart than Megan Dul'f'y," McGraw said, prompting a standing ovation from the crowd. "The good news is she's back for one morn year." 
Gray received two awards -Most Improved Player and Defensive Player of' tho Year. 
"Although thnrn were a few choices for Most Improved Player, this one was a dear cut favorite," McGraw said. "The only thing that changed more than hnr game was her hair-do." 
The Spirit Award went to freshman walk-on Amanda Tsipis, who saw action in 12 games this season. 

nervous to start 
a new chaptPr," Battnast said. "I don't know what to nxpnct, but I'm ready for anything bneausn I'm wnll-preparnd." 
Battnast en~ditnd assistant eoaeh .Jonathon Tsipis for thn improvemnnt bntwnnn her sophomore and junior years. 
"Yo u t u rrw d m y gam n around," Batteast said to her eoaeh. 
Borton, mnanwhiln, rnllnet­nd on hnr dneision to play eol­lngn basketball. 
"The past four ynars, I havn been living this dream lot' playing collegn basketball]," Borton said. "I honestly couldn't havn asknd for much morn."' 
Borton rof'lnctnd on hnr time playing for tho Irish, never missing a game in lwr four years. • 
"It is dif'fieult to bntinvn that my drnam has eomn and gone," tho senior said. 
And Battnast said that dnspitn tho eountlnss honors shn has received -four all­Big East snlections, Big East Player of tho Ynar -shn will take something else away from Notre Damn. 
'Til ehnrish that diploma I'll be getting in May morn than any other award I've evnr won," slw said. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


A 
major outbreak of life-threatening anthrax You may qualify jfyou are: would not just impact how we live today­• 18-55years qfage, and it would change the lives of generations to come. 
• Currently in good health To combat the threat of anthrax in the past, a 
Qualified partk~ipant.<; will receive a study­

vaccine has been used. 
related medical evaluation and study vacdnt~ Now local doctors are conducting a medical at no cost. Participants will not be exposed to research study to evaluate an inve,i:.igational. anthrax as part of this study. Reimbursement 
second-generation vaccine for for time and travel will be provided. tl1t• prevention of anthrax. 
To team jfyou qualify to see a stuqy doctor, call toll:free: 
1-888-788-3948 
St 


-
Wednesday, April 13, 2005

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
Elbows Deep used its tena­cious defense throughout the entire game to take away scor­ing opportunities from WMD and create chances of its own. The unit was sparked by the play of Dave George, who threw his body all around the court en route to scoring a game-high eight points and netting eight steals. He hit the pavement hard after being fouled on an early layup attempt, and shortly after, blood dripped from his nose, causing a short stoppage of play. 
Tournament trainers attend­ed to him with pieces of tissue to clog up his nose, but his intensity level was not affected -a level maintained by the entire Elbows Deep team. At any given moment, one of the players would be seen outrun­ning the opponent to an errant pass, or flopping onto the hard surface to grab a loose ball. 
George's drives to the hoop were complimented by the dominant inside presence of senior offensive lineman Jeff Thompson, who scored several baskets inside and showed a soft touch nailing a smooth mid-range jumper. Guard Pat Brady's jump shots also helped balance the team's offensive attack and weaken WMD's 2-3 zone. 
"We had to penetrate the zone," George said after the game. "It was windy, and the shots weren't falling, so we were able to slip inside the creases to get some opportuni­ties." 
Elbows Deep will take on The Knights of Leisure Thursday at 8:30 p.m. at McGlinn Courts for a chance to advance to the round of 128. 
March Badness 21, Iceland 16 
In one of the closest games of the night, March Badness continued its run of April suc­cess by finding a late groove against Iceland. After being down 10-11 at halftime, March Badness tied the game up at 13, 14, 15 and 16 before for­ward Eddie O'Brien scored the next two buckets to ride that momentum to Badness's third win of the tournament (includ­ing a play-in game) and into the field of 128. 

Badness had to play without captain Dave Sena, whom teammates reported was "ill." 
"His girlfriend won't let him play," quipped Craig Panzica. "She was [keeping him in bed] with the flu and feeding him chicken soup." 
Actually, Sena watched the game in street clothes while courtside with his girlfriend, but he admitted to a 102­degree fever. 
Despite Sena's absence, Panzica was not surprised by the outcome of the game. Why? 
"Because we have 'Slippery,"' Panziea said, refer­ring to Sena's sub Pete "Slippery" Leahy. "We have superstars every game. There was 'Magic' [Hamilton 'Magic' Marx] in the first game and 'Slippery' today." 
"Slippery" proved a valuable substitute when he ended the game with a one-handed tip off a teammate's missed basket. 
"It was exhilarating," Slippery said. "Best moment of my life." 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
scoring in the frame for the tough team gave us confidence. Irish. "Who knows, this homestand

Irish 
Olvey picked up his second could be good to us." win on the season. Joey Mainieri said after Tuesday's

continued from page 24 
Williamson, Mike game that Wade 

getting a triple in the process. Dury and David Korpi (3-0, 6.00 The Falcons brought in their Gruener each "/ think we did a ERA) is slated to second pitcher of the inning -pitched a scoreless great job beating get the start in Matt Hundley -but he didn't inning in relief of today's game
the wind. We didn't

fare any better than Greg Olvey. against Central
hit lazy fly balls. '' 

Becker, who started the inning. The 20 hits for Michigan. 
Craig Cooper walked and Tony the Irish were the First pitch from Langford singled to right, scor­most since they Paul Mainieri Eck Stadium is ing Andres. Ross Brezovsky also got 20 in a scheduled for 5:05
Irish coach 

walked before Greg Lopez sin­12-11 come-from­p.m. gled home Cooper. behind win over Notes: 
Catcher Sean Gaston got his Southern ILlinois on March 6, + Pitcher Tom Thornton third hit in the game with a two­2004-a span of 87 games. picked up his third career Big RBI single, scoring Brezovsky The Irish pitching staff bas East Pitcher of the Week award and Langford. allowed three Monday. 
The Falcons earned runs dur­In a 3-2 complete game victory then brought in ing the past 27 at Boston College Saturday,
''I'm really glad it 
their third pitcher innings. Thornton allowed eight singles 
didn't rain today. I
of the inning after Those two rea­and struck out five in what the Irish batted feel like we're sons were enough proved to be a big-time win for around before hitting our stride. " fuel for Mainieri to the Irish concerning their Big recording an out. hope the rain East record. New pitcher Bryan plaguing the sur­+ Nick Mainieri, son of the 
Paul Mainieri
Flory induced a rounding area Irish baseball coach, knocked in first-pitch double Irish coach would stay away his first career hit in the eighth play ground ball from South Bend. inning against the Falcons. from Cody Rizzo, ''I'm really glad Mainieri sent a single through who was batting for Nettey, to it didn't rain today," Mainieri the left side and drove in a run. quickly get two outs. said. 
Lilley followed with a single to "I feel like we're hitting our Contact Matt Lozar at score Lopez and close out the stride now. The two wins at a mlozar@nd.edu 
Congratulations to all the finishers of the HOLY half-maratho11! 
Manny Nuno-Will Fischer-Jeremy Klein-Mark Vermeersch-David Nardin-Mike McCann-Michael Hennig-Nick Valley-John Biddle-Brandon Hollihan-Shawn Houlahan-William Lopez-Tommy Hayes­Brendan Ryan-Brogan Ryan-Chris Cognato-Andrew Hankins-Michael Marchand-Kevin Walsh-Patrick Paw lick-Jack Clarke-Curtis Leighton-Brian McElroy-len Richard-Sarah Glatt-Cathy Huml-Katie Ferro-Kathleen Coverick-Katie Wagner-Anne Marie Fayen-Laura Hamman-Caitlin Mooney-Jennifer Corzan-J\tfary Alice Saluke-Emily Donelan-Amanda Dunlavy-Megan Schroeder-Genevieve Dempsey­Rozann Carter-Erica B ove-Mary Squillace -Emily Voge-Jessica White-Kathleen O'Brien-Christina Willy-Jean Anne Yackshaw-Kate McCartan-Lindsey Markegard-Susan Seago-Sara Weldon-Paige Hamilton-Ashley Ceniceros-Meg han Perks-Kathryn Schuessler-Shannon Murphy-Emily Noem-Lauren Gregg-Anne· Marie Draper-Laura Wasikowski-Alicia Avila-Jana Miller-Eileen Varga-Julie Pearce-Jenny Sarna-Molly Fox-Margarita Close-Sara Starshak-Alison Kelly-Erin Pauken-Rachel Thelen-Jackie Clark-Katie Skirtic-Courtney Barnes-Bill Goodwine-Kelly Howe-Eileen Coverick-Lauren Eberle-Karen Francl-Rebecca Tipton-Louella Lovely-Mandy Clark 
And a special thanksto...Class of2006, Women's Running Club, Welsh Family, CircleK, Navy Rotc, Alumni Association, Catering by Design, RuthAnn Heberle & SAFE, Bi 11 Reagan & RecSports, JeffKorros & Campus Security, Rev. John Jenkins, Student Act ivies & advisor Brian Fremeau, all of our volunteers, and the Task Force-Halle Kiefer, Kathleen Coverick, Ben Zerante, Steve Miller, Katy Murphy, Curtis Leighton, Lisa Rohrer, & Mary Squillace 
&t9riJ' 
Tuesday, April 12th Wednesday, April 13th 
at 5:05 pm 
at 5:05pm 

vs. Bowling Green vs. Central Michigan 
Frank Eck Stadium 

-FREE ADMISSION WITH VALID NOTRE DAME STUDENT ID-visit www.notredame otions.com for all of the latest motional information 


-

Wednesday, April 13, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

DILBERT 
ALICE I YOU ARE LOOKING AT THE NEWEST MEMBER. OF 'THE WORLD'S GREATEST INTERNS." 

L==<i'=ll\ 
PEANUTS 
E 
0
.. ~ 
@) 
.. ~ 
i .., 
SCOTT ADAMS 

THATS A SCAM TO CONVINCE GULLIBLE INTERNS TO BUY OVERPRICED WALL PLAQUES. 
I'LL BE DISPLAY­ING YOU LESS PR.OMINENTL Y THAN WE HAD DISCUSSED. 
) 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RUSUY 
0 
b
02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DOTUB 
j
I I [ (jtNYWIRT 
J [J b
www.jumble.com 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon . 

• 
CROSSWORD 
1 Strip_ 45 Enter again 1 Comfy footwear 5 Favored by God 46 Neighbor of 2 Swear to 10 Wielding a 3 duck
Braz. 

peeler, maybe 47 Four-runner? 
4 Lands' End 14 Locket shape 51 Break into parts, competitor 15 Instant message as a monopoly 5 Dickensian sender, perhaps 
54 Hoo-ha epithet 16 Disney lioness 
55 Notebook maker 6 Warp-and-weft 17 Purse item machine
56 Unwelcome 18 Popular group forecast 7 Actress dance Sommer
60. Potter's potions 

20 Like dessert professor a Glimpsed wines 
64 One with a half-9 Soap opera 22 Top-2% group interest meetings 
23 "lch bin 67 Laundry item 10 A Beatie bride Berliner" 
68 Earthen pot 11 In one's natural 24 Travelers' org. state
69 Commercial 26 Plod along prefix with liner 12 Movie set light: 28 Toasters do it Var.
70 Grant for a film? 34 River islet 13 John of "Miracle 
71 Lone Star State on 34th Street"

35 Farmer's sch. letters? 19 Peel
72 Rodeo critter 36 Salinger title girl 21 1970's
73 Girl or boy lead-Japanese P.M.

to Desk set item in Fukuda 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 25 Not "fer'' 27 Worked with 
28 Crunch 
29 Place 
30 Humble response to praise 
31 Pick up 
32 Felt under the weather 
33 Taints 
-:::+:::+:+.:::+-;=+.::i 37 Most of it nowadays is filtered 
....;....&....;....a..;;;...L...;.J....;'-' 38 mortals 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


39 Many an M.I.T.  51 Exquisite trinket  59 Fork-tailed flier  
grad: Abbr. 41 U.S.A.F. rank  52 Letter-shaped fastener  61 "I smell  
42 "Nana" author  53 Prepare to get  62 Left side  
43 Old oath  shot?  63 "Only Time"  
48 Sign of disuse  57 Water holder  singer  
49 Self-assurance  58 Course on  65 Quick rest  
50 Friend on  insects, for  66 Bird in the  
"Friends"  short  "Arabian Nights"  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more lhan 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Riley Smith, 27: Claire Danes, 26; Nicholas Brendon, 34: David Lcllerman, 58 Happy Birthday: You will sec a multitude of good things unfold this year. Your creative ability is at an all-time high. so don't hold yourself hack for fear you aren't ready. Hold your head high and do your own thing. Don't let emotional mallers slop you from following through with your goals. Your numbers arc 2. 5, 12, 28, 40. 45 ARIES (March 2I-Aprill9): You may he feeling a lillie restless today. Act on your gut feelings and make a move that will put you in a position to fix anything that you feel has gone array. Partnerships can he formed. hut some of your peers will not agree with what you arc doing. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You should be doing something ahoul your position or the direction you arc headed. Now is the time to gel tnick on track. If you aren't happy where you arc, it's time to consider alternatives. *** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Disagreements arc likely to occur when it comes to work-related prohlcms. You want to ensure you will not lose your position or be passed by for advancement. Don't let your emotions get the hetler of you. *** CANCER (June 2I-.July 22): Take a look at your financial situation and make some amendments to your personal papers. Update whatever needs to be redone and it will put your mind at case. Help an older relative do the same. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your involvement in discussions or in group endeavors will lead to an interesting meeting with someone you will want to spend more time with. Your options are mounting and, if you are a little pushy, you will get what you want.**** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Not everyone will agree with you today where business matters are concerned. Do not divulge the way you sec things happening or you will back yourself into a comer. You will not have all the facts regarding some of your peers. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take a short trip to a place that will inspire you. Learning, communicating and building enthusiasm in others should come easy today. A relationship that has been standing still will begin to take on a new dimension. ***** 
· SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Money matters should be your prime concern. An investment you make will pay off as long as you arc willing to hold on for a while. If you need to make alterations to your residence, now is the Lime to get started. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Partnerships may take you hy surprise. You won't expect to be so well-received by some and so let down by others. Nothing will unfold as planned but, if you are adaptable, you will be able to land in a very good position. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): It's all ahout getting things accomplished today. You will have some very unusual ideas, and you shouldn't be afraid to voice them. Someone will recognize what you are trying to do and help you tum your idea into something tangible. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Everything is looking good and so are you. This is the perfect day to do something to update your look or to set a new trend. A relationship will develop into something very special. ***** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Someone who really isn't as wonderful as you think will impress you. Take a closer look --it's time you realized you are just as good as everyone around you. Be sure to make your own decisions. ** Birthday Baby: You have spunk, charisma and a determination that can't he denied. You are opportunistic, inventive and know how to grah the attention of any crowd. You are unpredictable, outgoing and very versatile. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenia/ast.com for confidemial consultations · 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, April 13, 2005 
page 24 
BASEBALL 

Seventh-inning smash 
Irish erupt for eight runs late in contest en route to 14-2 win 
By MATT LOZAR Senior Staff Writer 
Tuesday afternoon's game was rolling right along at Eck Stadium. 
Notre Dame was ahead 5-2 heading into the bottom of the seventh inning with the game on pace to be finished in just over two hours. 
Then nine straight Irish bat­ters reached base before Bowling Green recorded an out. 
Naturally, the game slowed down a bit. 
Seven Notre Dame batters had multiple hits in the game, Derek Olvey pitched six strong innings and the Irish committed one harmless error while eventually cruising to a 14-2 win over the Falcons on an overcast and blus­tery day. 
"Derek Olvey pitched great and kept us in it early," Irish coach Paul Mainieri said. "Our defense also did a great job." 

A major factor in the game focused on hitting line drives or "Our hitters hit the ball on the Edwards was hit by a pitch. was the steady wind blowing in finding holes in the Bowling ground. They made plays early Then Steve Andres, pinch-hitting from right field. Olvey was able Green infield. but eventually kicked a couple." for Matt Bransfield, scorched to take advantage of the wind The game plan paid off. Up 5-2, Alex Nettey started the one down the first-base line, and record 13 of his 18 outs via "I think we did a great job seventh with his third hit on the scoring all three runners and the fly ball. beating the wind. We didn't hit day -a double to right center. 
Meanwhile, the Irish stayed lazy fly balls," Mainieri said. Brett Lilley walked, and Matt see IRISH/page 22 

NO WOMEN'S 
BASKETBALL 
Batteast honored asMVP 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
Humor and sentimental memories of the seniors were the themes Tuesday night at the women's bas­ketball banquet at the Joyce Center. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw joked with sopho­more Breona Gray about her outfit, and seniors Jacqueline Batteast and Teresa Borton gave emo­tional goodbye speeches as the Irish celebrated their 27-win season, the third­most in school history. 
"These seniors have left a great legacy," McGraw said. "They really raised the bar for us." 
Batteast, an Associated Press third-team All­American and Kodak/WBCA All-American, earned the Notre Dame Monogram Club Most Valuable Player award for the fourth time in as many seasons. 
see BATTEAST/page 21 
FOOTBALL 

Fullback povvers vvay to limelight 
Rashon Powers-Neal expected to shine in starting position 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate SportS Ediror 
In many ways, the fullback is the most important position on offense outside of the quarter­back. But what the fullback does is often overlooked and under­appreciated. 
This season. Rashon Powers­Neal might not have to deal with that aspect of being the other running back in the backfield, as the Irish coaching staff has made very clear that his role in the offense will extend far past run-and pass-blocking. 
When he was an offensive coordinator in the NFL, head coach Charlie Weis often used his fullbacks in many ways other than simply clearing holes for running backs and picking up blitzes. 


Patrick Pass, the New England Patriots' fullback in 2004, caught passes out of the back­field (28 catches, 215 yards), fooled defenses expecting a handoff to running back Corey Dillon (39 carries, 141 yards) and even returned six kicks for 115 yards. 
see FULLBACK/page 21 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIV 
Ba.ttles continue in second week 
Elbows Deep disarms Weapons ofMass Destruction 21-14 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
Thanks to Elbows Deep, a quick search for the teams that comprise the round of 256 will find no Weapons of Mass Destruction. The dozens of fans who saw Elbows Deep defeat Weapons of Mass Destruction 21-14 in a makeup game from last Sunday wit­nessed a scrappy display of sweat and blood, intermingled with light bantering between players and fans and a drop of player bickering over fouls ­all the traditional elements of a classic Bo·okstore Basketball game. 
WMD was led by a forward donning a Juwan Howard Denver Nuggets jersey with a matching old school game -featuring See Also a sky hook "Four Guys and 
that evoked a Ninja endures memories of 
K a r e e m rout by the '96 Abdui­Packers" Jabbar. 
page 15 
But it was not enough to counter Elbow Deep's relentless ball pressure. 
see BOOKSTOREIpage 22 

en 
MEN~S TENNIS SMC GOLf SMC lEINIS MLS MU3 MLB 

LLI 
Cardinals 5 Marlins 8 
u 

z Notre Dame travels to Saint Mary's feels it The Belles hit the road 
s 
Luke Scott and Willie Reds 1 Phillies 2 face Big Ten foe Ohio has an advantage going to take on MIAA foe 
Taveras join forces in State today. into the Bethel meet. Kalamazoo. 
the Houston outfield. Jim Edmonds tallies Florida's A.J. Burnett
c::s 
1,500th career hit. throws complete game. 

c:c =: page 20 page 20 page 18 
page 1H page 14 page 14 









