------------------------~-------------, 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 68 WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 12,2005 
NDSP, Post Office move to new quarters 
By KATE ANTONACCI Assistant News Editor 
Hammes Mowbray Hall, the 40,000­s q u are -f o o t See Also building locat­"Construction ed near 
gives campus
Stepan Center on Holy Cross new look" Drive, opened 
page4
its doors this past week to reveal the new home of the Notre Dame Security/Police Department (NDSP) and the Notre Dame Post Office. After nearly two years of work and $10.97 million, the project is now complete and was officially dedicated in a ceremony held January 4. 
A great deal of preparation was done to ensure that the building was open for the spring semester. 
'The first week is very hectic 
see BUILDING/page 9 

TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer Hammes Mowbray Hall, the new home to NDSP and the Post Office, was officially dedicated on Jan. 4 and is now open for service. 
NO, SMC aid 
I . • • 


waves vzctzms 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistant News Editor 

In the wake of the tsunami that pummeled South Asia and Africa Dec. 26, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are anxious to help -and have plenty of opportunities on both campus­es. See Also 
The most 

"Catholics
immediate stu­dent response to respond" the disaster took 
page 6 
place Monday night, when Saint Mary's refocused the theme of its annual late night breakfast -replacing the usual fes­tive celebration with a more serious tone. Students brainstormed ways to help as they dined on a refugee's typ­ical breakfast: wheat tortillas, rice and lentils, apples and bot tea. 
The Office of Civil and Social Engagement, the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership and Campus Ministry refocused the event after receiving requests from students 
see RESPONSE/page 8 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Housing crunch lessened 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Assistant News Editor 
After a semester of decidedly cramped quarters, the housing crunch that forced many dorms to make use of every inch of available space came to an end in the new See Also year, as stu­d e n t s
"Winter storms 
returned to severely campus to find a little
damage student 
extra breath-
residences" 
ing room. 
In the fall, 
increases in 
the numbers of seniors staying on campus and female applicants left almost 70 freshmen in increased occupancy rooms or converted study lounges, and left 20 female Notre Dame transfer students to live in Regina Hall at Saint Mary's. 
Hesitant to declare the squeeze for space truly over, director of the Office of Residence Life and Housing Jeff Shoup said the situation has improved, but not as much as some would hope or like. 
"However, we do have [room] openings and have been able to take care of everyone on the waiting list, so everyone who wanted housing this semester was able to get housing," he said. 
Shoup said that all but three dorms -Badin, Howard and Lewis -ha.ve at least one room open, with open spots for 16 students in the women's dorms and 58 in the men's. 
Because the number of stu­dents going abroad in the spring semester is roughly equal to that of students return­ing from abroad, Shoup attrib­
page 3 
see HOUSING/page 9 

Campuses feel tsunami effects 


Students, alums in area unharmed 
By JEN ROWLING News Writer 
The tsunami that tore through Southeast Asia on Dec. 26 affected Notre Dame abroad programs and alumni, but there are no reported Notre Dame student or professor casu­alties, said lreneo Bong Miquiabas, director of International Student Services. 
The tsunami devastated the home­lands of 105 Notre Dame students, Miquiabas said in an e-mail. These stu­dents live in India, Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Somalia, he said. 
According to Miquiabas, none of the students' immediate families were affected. ISS still awaits news from a few Indian students. he said. 
Miquiabas said most international Notre Dame students from the affected nations do not live in the coastal areas that were impacted by deadly waves. 
"Most of them do not live on the affected coast," said Miquiabas. "We have heard from all fthel students from Thailand. Indonesia, Malaysia, Sri 
see TSUNAMI/page 8 

ND -will still pursue controversial scholars 

By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Editor 
Despite a semester-long 
struggle with the U.S. S t a t c Department over the revoked visa of Tariq Hamadan, who resigned from the fac­


ulty Dec. 13, Ramadan 
t h e 
University will continue to pur­
sue international and Muslim scholars of distinction, said H. Scott Appleby, director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
"Certainly we won't be dis­couraged in any respect from hiring international scholars, Muslim scholars or controver­sial scholars," Appleby said. 
Notre Dame sought out Ramadan not to stir up contro­versy but to provoke critical discussion between religions, which remains a goal, Appleby said. And though the scholar's 
see RAMADAN/page 9 
Boat Club shuts doors for good 
By TERESA FRALISH Associate News Editor 

After two police raids and over 250 underage drinking citations in recent years, the bar many stu­dents said would never sink finally lowered its sails for good in late December. 
The Boat Club stopped doing business by D11c. 22 after agreeing to place its liquor license in escrow, said chief assistant South Bend city attorney Alladeane DeRose. 
While the license is held in escrow by llu~ Alcohol and Tobacco Commission (ATC), the bar will have up to five years to sell the 
see BOAT CLUB/page 8 


page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Ode to Boat 
With The Boat Club linally sinking, 
I feel moved to reflect on the most 
wonderful estab­
lishment known 
to South Bend, 
and perhaps, the 
world. 
I low do you deseribe Boat Club to someone who's 1wver been'! That's easy. Boat Club is God's way of showing the magnitude of heaven's great­ness. Boat is like a small slice of the afterlife. Boat is simply Boat. 
My lirst experience at Boat was like that of many others. It was my lirst attempt at entering a bar with a fake m. I heard rumors about how people simply ne1~ded to be the same gender of the person on their ID to get through the so-called " bounc­ers." I heard how, once inside, pitch­ers of beer were a nwasly $1. I heard how you would never forget the distinet smell of In Club de Boat. 
When I showed the bouncer my ID that fateful night, he looked me straight in the eye for a moment, pondering whetlwr I really was Chris Wellington of 1243 Everhard Drive in Scranton, N . .1. Then, I heard the words that would change my life forever-"That'll be $5, give me your right arm for the bracelet." 
I was in. 
That lirst night was magkal. I ord1wed and consumed $1 pitchers. I played pool whih~ others around me competed in intense "!lip-cup" games. And I even danced upstairs in a room that had to be at least 134 degrens. 
Despite tlw conditions, there is simply nothing better than holding a l 00-cent pitcher in onn hand, a cup full of beer in the other, and hearing .Journey's "Don't Stop Believin'" on the bar's speakers. 
Now that Boat is dosed, I've looked into options to have it rnopened. Basically, someone must buy the place and start all over. That would costly roughly $500,000 or so. Therefore I am asking my fellow Boat Club lovers to begin asking for and raising donations to buy back Boat. If we can muster up the half million, we can take over Boat. give it back to its rightful owners and live thn drnam again. 
Some critics may think I and the rest of the Boat Club cult would be wasting money. Boat should go under, they'd say. Boat deserves to dose aftnr letting so many underage kids drink, they might continue. 
But all I know is that there's a little bar at the corner of an intersection in South Bend where people can "pants-down-dance" to Enrique Iglesias' "Escape" without being thrown out on the curb. A place whern nveryone joins arms and sings Billy .Joel's "Piano Man" before going home. 
A place where every underage beer-yearning kid in the world can lind the most important human feel­ing of all -hope. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Joe Hettler 
Assistant Managing Editor 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 12, 2005 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR NEW YEAR'S RESOLUTION? 





Jamie Holland Scott Breunig Mary Kingsbury Molly Powers Marcela Berrios John Henderson 
junior junior junior junior freshman sophomore St. Edward's ofF campus McGlinn off-campus Walsh Basil Hall 
"Eat more ice "Steal his "Catch up with "Hang out with "To survive "To be more cream. girlfriend.'' Molly and my Mary more engineering. positive." 
other Domer often." friends. " 

Students arrested for egg-bombing high school 
HAHHISBURG, Pa. -Two teenagers were arrested on charges they bombed their high school with a bucket of eggs from a low-flying air­plane. 
During the incident last June, panicked officials evac­uated about two dozen peo­ple from the top floors of a hotel when the two-seat plane circled low over down­town Gettysburg, then disap­peared. 
"You hate to think what might have happened ­even unintentionally," prose­cutor Brian Sinnett said. lie called the prank "one of the most bizarre cases that I've been involved in." 
The two Gettysburg High students were arrested Friday on charges including risking a catastrophe and reckless endangerment. They were caught after telling oth­ers about the incident, authorities said. 
Mrs. McDonald delivers baby in a McDonalds 
UNION, Mo. Ann McDonald knew the baby' was coming and there wasn't a hospital in sight, so she pulled over and delivered the child outside-what else?­
a McDonald's restaurant. 

Chayse Westin McDonald was due Wednesday. But on Sunday, Ann McDonald knew her time was getting near ­and fast. 
Problem was, there is no hospital in this eastern Missouri town, and the clos­est one in Washington was 15 minutes away. 
McDonald and the child's !,>Tandmother, Linda Cuneio, got in the car, but it soon became evident they would­n't make it to a hospital. So they pulled over at a McDonald's in Union. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
LLI 
:::E: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
....I c( 
(.) 


HIGH LOW 


31 0 

HIGH LOW 

.9 HIGH 51 
LOW 31 
IN BRIEF 

The Saint Mary's basketball team will tip oJT against Adrian College tonight in the Angela Athletic Facility at 7:30p.m. 
The Notre Dame women's bas­ketball team faces Conneeticut tonight at 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
ND Cinema will present the Jilm Motocycle Diaries Thursday and Friday in the Browning Cinema in DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The film will be shown at 7 and 10 p.m. 
Saint Mary's College will host a symposium in conjungtion with this weekend's presidential inau­guration titled "Educating Women, Transforming Lives: The Liberal Arts in the 21st Centruy." Featureed speakers include Nancy Bnkavac, president of Scripps College, and Thomas Gerety, executive director of the Brennan Center for Justice, New York Law School. The symposium will run from 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. 
Senior Vice !~resident of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Erik Peterson will present a lecture titles "Seven Revolutions Initiative." The lecture is part of the Ten Years Hence series and will take place in the Jorndan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business from 10:40 
a.m. to noon. 

The Notre Dame women's swim team faces off against Michigan and Illinois Friday. The meet will be held in the Holfs Aquatic Center and begins at 6 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

3 
-7 


HIGH LOW 

Wednesday, January 12, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Winter storm severely damages student residences 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
Several student residences, both on and ofT campus, were destroyed after a winter storm blasted through the Midwest over the Christmas holiday, leaving behind m<~jor water damage. 
At College Park, an apartment complex oil' campus, eight apart­ments were nearly ruined after pipns burst above the ceilings, causing a collapse, said Paramount Management proper­ty manager Patty Husswurm. She estimated the collapse took place Dee. 30, but was unsure about the exact date. 
Many students turned off their heat over the break, causing pipes to freeze, Husswurm said. When the weather warmed up, the pipes burst and caused over $100,000 in water damage to the apartments. 
Senior Connor O'Keefe, who lives in one of the damaged apartments, said his entire ceiling had to be replaced. 
"Dry wall and plaster were all over the furniture. Our TV was destroyed and the wood floor had to be replaced," he said. 
The tnnants are responsible for covering the cost of the damage, Hussworm said. 
Husswurm said that College Park housing contracts explicitly state that tenants are not to turn the thermostat below 58 degrees because the pipes could freeze. 
"If I could do it over again I would have knocked on every door to remind them that they cannot turn their heat off," Husswurm said. 
A huge effort has been put forth to return the apartments to a livable condition since the ceil­ings collapsed. 
"It has been very difficult to try to get students back in to their apartments. We have had con­tractors, cleaning crews, disaster relief agencies, all working 24/7 to repair the damage," said Husswurm. 
Six of the eight damaged apart­ments were repaired before classes resumed on Monday, she said. New carpet and wood floors are still being installed in the remaining two apartments. 
"The students have been absolutely helpful during this. They feel displaced and it is hard to study and focus without your apartment to live in" said Husswurm. 
O'Keefe, on the other hand, expressed disappointment with how Paramount Management has handled the problem. 
"They have been sort of sleazy with the whole situation. First they told us that we were going to have to pay for the damage," O'Keefe said. "Then they said that our owner's insurance would cover it." 
Kristin Boyd, whose room at the complex remains unlivable, believes that much of the exces­sive water damage could have been avoided had students been informed about the ceiling col­lapse earlier. 
"If management had handled this in a more professional man­ner, we would not be in the situa­tion we are in right now," she said. "I am furious they did not tell us earlier. By the time we got there, there was a lot of damage that could have been avoided." 

O'Keefe has heard rumors about possible lawsuits against students and has consequently sought legal advice. 
"We have heard that a lawsuit is possible so we are contacting lawyers to help us with the situa­tion," he said. 
But Husswurm insisted that College Park would not codsider taking legal action, saying that when pipes freeze it is "an act of God." 
"No. We will not be filing any lawsuits," she said. 
The winter storm also left a dorm room in Alumni Hall unliv­able. A fan above the third floor room, occupied by junior Patrick Nagorski and sophomore Hyan Burke, was responsible for the water damage, said Alumni Hall Hector Father George Rozum. 
The fan was installed this past summer to help circulate air fi·om bathrooms on the south side of the building. It was not until mas­sive amounts of snow arrived during Christmas break that the University discovered that ­instead of filtering and re-circu­lating air fi·om the bathrooms ­the fan was pulling in fresh air. When snow gathered on the roof, it was pulled in as well. 
The snow eventually melted, soaking. the ceiling above room 353 until it partially collapsed. Both mattresses in the room were destroyed. The computers, sheltered by lofted beds, were left undamaged. 
Notre Dame maintenance dis­covered the problem early enough to prevent the situation from escalating. 
Rozum was able to warn Burke and Nagorski before they returned, allowing them time to find living arrangements. 
"I called them during break to tell them the news. I wanted to prepare them," he said. 
Due to the sour smell of soaked furniture and the non-existent ceiling, Burke and Nagorski will be living in other rooms for the next few weeks. Despite the inconvenience, the students have maintained a positive attitude, according to Rozum. 
"Both boys have been very, very understanding about the whole matter," he said. 
The University has agreed to cover all expenses associated with the damaged room, Rozum said. 
Contact Writer at Mary Kate Malone mmalone3@nd.edu 

CJs 417 N. Michigan Street WEDNESDAY'S 5PM-10PM 
Student Appreciation Night $1.00 OFF A Burger With Student I.D. MUST BE 18 ~ MUST HAVE STUDENT I.D. 
FRIDAY'S !0:30PM~ CLOSE .99 DRAFTS ~ .99 WELLS 
MUST BE 21 WITH VALID I.D. $3.00 Cover 
SATURDAY'S I0:30PM ~CLOSE $2.00 Wells~ $2.00 20oz Drafts~ $2.00 Shots $2.00 Cover & YOUR FIRST DRINK "IS ON US" 
MUST BE 21 WITH VALID I.D. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 12, 2005 
Peds issue -warning after Ebersol crash 
Memorial held for youngest victim 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 

The Nov. 28 charter plane crash that killed 14­year old Teddy Ebersol, the youngest brother of Not.ro lhtmc senior Charlie 1\bersol, spurred both an emotional memorial serv­ico and a fodcral safety warning in Dncnmbor. 
Family and friPnds ­inducting a bedriddnn NBC Sports chairman Dick 1\bnrsol, Charlin and Teddy's father who was injured in the crash ­honornd the youngest l\b1wsol Ike. 16 at a Cllrn­mony at the Washington Montessori School in Washington, Conn., aceording to the Associated Pmss. 
Dick Ebersol, 57, sus­tained severe injuries in the Montrose. Colo. crash, which occurred as the plane attempted to take orr from the Montrose Hegional Airport in light snow, iee and log. Ile frae­turnd his sternum, pelvis, eoeeyx and three ribs, and broke six vertebrae in his back. the New York Times reported, but addressed the 400 memorial atten­dees from a hospital bed. 
Charlie Ebflrsol, 21. who sustained less serious injuries to his back and a burn on his arm, also spoke about his brother's life. 
Two weeks later, on Dec. 
30. the National Transportation Safety Board issued a warning letter prompted by the Ebersol incident. According to the Associated Press, the alert instructed all pilots of cor­porate jets, regional jets and private aircraft to take time before takeofl' to run their hands along the wings of their aircraft and check for the formation of potentially dangerous iee particles. 
"No amount of snow, ice or frost accumulation on the wing upper surface can be considered safe for takeoff," the NTSB said, according to the Associated Press. Though the Colorado crash prompted the alert, the board told the Associated Press that ice has not been confirmed as a factor in that accident. 
The plane's pilot and !light attendant were also killed in the crash. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 


Construction gives catnpus face-lift 
By PETER LEAHY News Writer 
The opening of Hammes Mowbray Hall, the new home of Notre Dame Security/Police and the Notre Dame post office, marks a milestone for on-campus con­struction, but it is not the only project underway. 
While students enjoyed time off over the holidays, construction crews continued work on many projects at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
One of the biggest projects cur­rently in progress is the Guglielmino Family Athletics Center, located east of Holfs Sports Hecreation Center. According to the Department of Development Web site, this $21.25 million, 95,840-square­foot facility will contain services for varsity athletes, including a new 25,000-square-foot strength and conditioning center. 
.Jim Lyphout, vice president for business operations, said the con­struction of the athletic center is on schedule. 
"Everything's going according to schedule. It will be open for occu­pancy in July," Lyphout said. 
The old NDSP and post office facilities will also be turned into temporary homes for other cam­pus buildings, he said. 
"They will be remodeled to accommodate the student health center and counseling center," Lyphout said. 
Lyphout said that use of these buildings will begin after gradua­tion in May. The buildings that currently house Health Services and the counseling center will undergo a one-year renovation process beginning July 1, he said . He did not indicate what will be done with the old NDSP and post office buildings once the counsel­ing center and health center move back into their original buildings. 

Though the athletic facility is unfinished as of now, athletes began using the center in December. 
Freshman Brittany Glynn, a member of the softball team said the new facility is an upgrade. 
"You can still hear the jackham­mer and everything but it's better than the old facility," she said. 
Many student-athletes are par­ticularly excited about their state­of-the-art weight. room, Glynn said. 
"The new weight room is in. It's beautiful. It's huge," she said. 
Construction on the .Jordan Hall of Science, which will house new undergraduate lab space, two 250-seat lecture halls, a 150-seat multi-visualization room, an observatory, and many teaching labs, is also on schedule. 
"It is going very well," Lyphout said. "It will be ready for occu­pancy in July of 2006." 
Crews are also busily working at Saint Mary's on the new Student Center. 
College spokeswoman Melanie MacDonald said the center will be completed around spring break. 
Contact Peter Leahy at pleahy@nd.edu 




The Observer 
is currently accepting applications for the 

2004-05 Editor-in-Chief 
Applicants must submit BOTH a resume and at least an 8-PAGE proposal explaining their interest in the position and their plans for running the newspaper. 
Applications are due Monday, January 17 by 5 p.m. 
COMPLETED APPLICATIONS CAN BE SUBMITTED TO THE OBSERVER'S OFFICE IN THE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL. 
Contact Editor-in-Chief Matt Lozar at 1-4542 for more information. 


ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, January 12, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Ukrainian election contested 
KIEV, Ukraine -The loser of Ukraine's presidential election said Tuesday he would file massive complaints in court challenging the win by Western-leaning Viktor Yushchenko, a move that could prolong the political tensions that have dominated the country for months. 
Although Yushchenko was declared the offi­cial winner on Monday, former Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych has refused to concede. He contends there was widespread fraud in the Dec. 26 revote a mirror of the strategy Yushchenko used to gain the annulment of an earlier election in which Yanukovych was declared winner. 
Yanukovych said his allies would submit the appeal to the Supreme Court to demand "the annulment of the so-called rerun." He describnd the appeal as "a convincing package of evidence that would prove election fraud." 
Iraqi elections threatened 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Prime Minister Ayad Allawi publicly acknowledged for the first time Tuesday that parts of Iraq probably won't be safe enough for people to vote in the Jan. 30 elections, and he announced plans to boost the size of the country's army from 100,000 to 150,000 men by year's end. 
Violence persisted, with two bombings killing at least 13 Iraqis in separate locations north and south of Baghdad. 
Allawi discussed preparations for the elec­tion by telephone with President Bush on Tuesday, and both leaders underscored the importance of going ahead with the vote as planned, White llouse spokesman Scott McClellan said. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Supreme Court hears spy trial 
WASHINGTON -The Supreme Court con­sidered Tuesday whether shadowy spy deals should ever end up in federal court, hearing the case of former Soviet-bloc spies who claim the CIA stiffed them on a pledge of life­time support. 
At issue is a 130-year-old Supreme Court ruling that said former spies may not sue the 
U.S. government because of the secret nature of their pacts, which are made with the understanding that "the lips of the other were to be forever sealed." 
Most justices appeared reluctant to allow the couple's lawsuit against the CIA. They noted that not only spies but government officials accept they might be backstabbed when making the clandestine deals. 
Rescuers search for victims 
LA CONCI liTA, Calif.-Rescuers with listen­ing devices sensitive enough to pick up a whimper or a faint tapping searched on Tuesday for victims feared buried in a mud­slide that sent a thunderous cascade of trees and dirt onto this seaside hamlet. 
At least four people were killed and 14 were injured most of them pulled from the mud. As many as 27 others were unaccounted for. 
Neighbors and relatives of the missing watched in agony as rescuers hauled away dirt bucket by bucket and looked for signs of lifn. Commands for quiet would bring activity to a halt as rescuers lowered microphones into the dnbris to listen for survivors. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Alleged shooter sent to hospital 
ANGOLA, Ind. -A man who authorities say shot at several vehicles on a northeast­ern Indiana highway remains unfit to stand trial and is being treated at a state mental hospital, a court report said. 
Donald William Myers III, 26, of Angola, has been under observation at Logansport State llospital since early September, a little more than four months after the April 29 shootings and standoff with about 75 police officers along U.S. 20. 
Chertoff nominated to cabinet 
President Bush picks his candidate for the new homeland security secretary 
Associated Press 
WASIHNGTON President Bush nominated federal judge Michael Chertoff as the new home­land security chief Tuesday, completing the second-term Cabinet with a former prosecutor who recently called for a new look at the tough terrorist detainee laws that he helped craft after the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Chertoff, who took his seat on the 3rd U.S. Court of Appeals less than two years ago, is expected to easily win Senate approval. He has won confirmation three times during his career, as U.S. attorney in New Jersey, assistant attorney general and appellate judge. 
"Mike has shown a deep commitment to the cause of justice and an unwaver­ing determination to pro­tect the American people," Bush told a White House audience that included Chertoff's wife, Meryl, and their children. "Mike has also been a key leader in the war on terror." 

Chertoff would replace Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge, who helped build the new department after the ter­ror attacks by combining 22 existing and often com­mer New York City police ing in Senate confirmation opment," Chertoff wrote in peting federal agencies. commissioner Bernard hearings. The Weekly Standard, a Ridge, often identified with Kerik, withdrew last The American Civil conservative publication, the color-coded terror month citing immigration Liberties Union said in December 2003. "We alerts, plans to step down problems regarding a Tuesday that as an archi­need to debate a long-term from his post Feb. 1. nanny. tect of the act, Chertoff and sustainable architec­
Ridge "leaves some very Chertoff's resume seemed to view the Bill of ture for the process of big shoes to fill," Chertoff includes stint as a Rights "as an obstacle to determining when, why, said. Supreme Court clerk and national security rather and for how long someone 
Known by colleagues as as the Senate Republicans' than a guidebook for how may be detained as an a fiery workhorse, Chertoff chief counsel for the to do security properly." enemy combatant, and headed the Justice Clinton-era Whitewater But since joining the fed­what judicial review Department's criminal investigation. He helped eral bench in Philadelphia should be available." division at the time of the develop the USA Patriot in June 2003, Chertoff has Chertoff's call for a attacks. He said at the Act, which greatly expand­repeatedly called for tak­review "is a good thing," White House: "If confirmed ed the government's sur­ing a fresh look at the poli­said former Solicitor as secretary, I will be veillance and detention cy of detaining terror sus­General Ted Olson, a proud to stand again with powers. pects and has questioned friend of the nominee. "I the men and women who His role in crafting that the extent to which that know he believes the act form our front line against law, a measure that has process should be open to was necessary and was terror." become a flashpoint for judicial review. working well and has not 
Chertoff was the presi­critics who say it has erod­"Two years into the war been abused, but there's dent's second pick for the ed civil liberties, is expect­on terror; it is time to move nothing wrong with look­job. Bush's first choice, for-ed to bring sharp question-beyond case-by-case devel-ing at it," Olson said. 



Sharon calls to congratulate Abbas 
trust built up over four years of Abbas meeting were still in an early
Associated Press 
Israeli-Palestinian violence. stage. "When the right time comes, 

JEHUSALEM -.Prime Minister However, both sides face internal we will go for a well-prepared meet­Ariel Sharon called Mahmoud Abbas problems. Palestinian National ing. We will not go just for a meeting, on Tuesday to congratulate him for Security Adviser Jibril Hajoub but for a useful one," he said. his landslide victory in an election to resigned, and critics in Sharon's own Sharon and Abbas last met in replace Vasser Arafat, signaling Likud Party complained that his new August 2003, during Abbas' brief Israel's readiness to work with the government cannot survive without term as Arafat's prime minister. new Palestinian team after years of support from doves and Arab parties Abbas resigned shortly afterward, boycotting Arafat. their bitter rivals. · blaming Arafat for refusing to hand 
Both sides said a meeting will take Sharon congratulated Abbas "on over authority and Israel for failing place, but no date was set. his personal achievement and his to accept his demands to ease 
Abbas' election victory on Sunday victory in the elections and wished restrictions and release Palestinian and Sharon's success this week in him luck," said a statement from prisoners. putting together a government that Sharon's office, adding, "They agreed Israel refused to negotiate with favors his plan to pull out of Gaza they would continue talking in the Arafat, accusing him of encouraging and part of the West Bank this -sum­near future." attacks against Israelis. The last mer have raised hope the two lead­Palestinian Prime Minister Ahmed meeting Arafat had with an Israeli ers can break through layers of mis-Qureia said plans for a Sharon-prime minister was in 2000. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 12, 2005 
Catholics respond generously to tsuna111i catastrophe 

Students join millions across globe in opening hearts, wallets to aid in humanitarian crisis in Southeast Asia 
By MADDIE HANNA 
News Writ<'r 
The response of Catholic Helie!' Services (CHS) to the tsunamis in Southeast Asia indicates that the Catholic tradition of' giving is stronger than evnr, several Notre Dame faculty and students said. 
To date, CHS has donated over $25 million to the relief n fTort. 
"It is rich in our tradition that Catholics, regardless of wlwre we are or what we do, are in union with our broth­ers and sisters and have an obligation to be in solidarity with tlwrn," Father Bill Lies, Center for Social Concerns direetor, said. 
Lies said that the principles of' solidarity, option for the poor and the common good are all values central to the Catholic Church. 
"For all of' us who have lived through such a catastro­phe, it calls on us just as human beings to express soli­darity. For Catholics and Christians, it calls on our faith tradition, with Jesus Christ being close to those who wern poor," said Father Hiehard Warner, director of Campus Ministry. 
"For Notre Dame students, living through one of the world's worst catastrophes, they will always remember how they responded. Our response should be in accor­dance with our beliefs." 
The tsunami relief effort provides an opportunity for followers of major world reli­gions to come together and work toward a common goal, Warner said. 
"Our eall is to support poor people and help them face their needs always, and to do even more when the need is greater, when our means and possibilities are greater," Warner said. 
Warner also noted the importance of prayer in such a large-scale catastrophe. 
"While it's important to give money, out of' a sense of soli­darity, it's important to pray for those who died," he said. 
Sarah Bates, one of the chief organizers of the Notre Dame community tsunami relief drive, said that the Catholic ideas of' charity, social justice and social awareness were important in choosing CRS as the recipient of' the donations. 
"It goes along with our mis­sion as a Catholic university to pick a Catholic relief organization. As a Catholic organization, they obviously support the same ideals that our university supports," Batns said. 

Warner said that CBS was chosen because it already has workers on site in 90 coun­tries, constituting the largest non-governmental agency in the U.S. The CHS donates 94 ennis of' every dollar directly to the cause; a high number compared to other organiza­
tions, he said.  
"Catholicism is  most  cer­ 
tainly imbued in  our  relief'  
nf'l'orts,"  said  Elizabeth  

(;rif'f'in, director of media rnlations for Catholic Hnlief Serviens. "IIownver, just bneause we have 'Catholic' in our namn, pnopln assume wn aid only Catholics or prosely­but it's a blessing to see people respond in a situation like this," Lies said. 
Lies said that the outpouring of relief was not excessive, but necessary. 
"I don't think we begin to appreciate the enormity of this disaster for Southeast Asia," he said. 
Warner said that many Christian denominations arc more generous under normal circumstanees than Catholics, which could be due to the fact that so many Catholics pay to send their children to private schools. 

"However, at a time with· unusual cireumstances, most people are equal !donators), recognize a human tragedy and want to do something about it," Warner said. 
To date, the U.S. govern­ment has sent over $350 mil­lion to aid in the tsunami relief effort. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

tize, but we don't. We don't care what religion, color or political persuasion you are -if you need help, CRS is there." 
Griffin said that a few days af'tnr the tsunami, the president of' the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops sent a letter to all bishops requesting collec­tions to be taken up in their dioceses for CHS. 
"That money is just starting to come in," Griffin said, explaining that collections were taken at Masses the past two Sundays. 
Additionally, CRS sent direct response requests to thousands of past Catholic donors and is doing advocacy work with parishes, dioceses and Catholic colleges and universities on a one-to-one level. 
Although donations to relief organizations are ineonsistent, flooding in after disasters and then dropping substantially over time, many think that the sudden response to the tsunami was natural. 
"It would be great if people were as generous year-round, 

Thirsty for knowledge? Say when. 

At Ernst & Young, the opportunity for growth is enormous. We offer over 
7,000 professional development programs -some of the best formal 
learning programs in the country -because our philosophy is People First. 
We recognize that our employees are essential to the firm's growth and 
FORTUNE* 
success. And in order to attract the best talent, we've built an environment100 BEST that Fortune® magazine has consistently recognized as one of the "100 Best COMPANIESg Companies To Work For." So whether you're looking for a place to grow or a TO WORK FOR~ great place to work, look for our recruiters on campus. ey.comjusjcareers 
Audit• Tax• TransactionAdvisoryServices E!J ERNST&YOUNG 
Quality In Everything We Do 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Wednesday, January 12, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

10,556.22 -64.81

}ones 
i~ Some: Compostte Volume: 1,206 161 1,488,419,840 

AMEX 1,392.67 -5.29 NASDAQ 2,079.62 -17.42 NYSE 7,044.11 -37.59 s&PSOO 1,182.99 -7.26 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 11,539.99 0.'00 FTSf IOO(Lonclon) 4,818.70 -22.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SAT RADI (SIRI) -7.85 -0.52 6.10 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.26 -0.07 26.73 INTEL CORP (INTC) -1.49 -0.34 22.54 TASER INTL INC (TASR) -29.68 -5.95 14,10 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -1.74 -0.08 4.53 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.85 -0.41 47.86 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.79 -0.34 42.44 5-YEAR NOTE -0.62 -0.23 37.1 I 3-MONTH BILL + 1.28 +0.29 23.02 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.47 45.68 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +3.00 422.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.18 97.20 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 03.34 EURO 0.7625 POUND 0.5324 CANADIAN$ 1.2183 


IN BRIEF 
Students invest in real world 
Venture capital is agony and ecstasy, bust and boom, the stress of gambling and the thrill of a front-row view on the latest tech­nologies. And when real money is involved, it's also one of the hottest classes on business school campuses. 
In an effort to elevate their teaching beyond the usual case studies and guest speakers, a handful of schools are raising significant amounts of money to turn over with a few strings to students who invest in real startups. The hope is to better train both aspiring ven­ture capitalists and aspiring entrepreneurs, who will need to know what it takes to catch an investor's eye. 
And whiln it hasn't happened yet, if a stu­dent venture fund happens to back the next Googln and fills its university's coffers, so mueh the better. 
WestPoint to cut over 2,000 jobs 
WEST POINT Ga. -Bedding and bath tex­tile maker WestPoint Stevens Inc. said Monday it will cut 2,465 jobs and close plants in four states bncause of the Jan. 1 end of worldwide quotas limiting cheap imports. 
The West Point, Ga.-based maker of brands including Martex, Stevens and Lady Pepperell will close plants in Burlington, Clemson, S.C.; Middletown. Ind. and Drakes Branch, Va. 
About 560 will lose their jobs in Burlington, 1,345 in Clemson. 450 in Drakes Branch. and 110 in Middletown. The plants are expected to close by late March or early April, the compa­ny said. 
The closings and layoffs "are directly related to the removal of textile quotas from low-wage countries," the company said in a statement. Much of the work will be shifted overseas. 
"We must be flexible in maintaining the most profitable balance between our domestic manufaeturing and goods sourced from over­seas. This becomes more critical with quotas removed." WestPoint Stevens President and Chief Executive M.L. "Chip" Fontenot said. 
The eompany told Middletown employees at a Monday meeting, Town Council President Jake Smith said. The plant is the town's largest employer, as well as its longest contin­uous business. 
Apple unveils new iproducts 
CEO Steve Jobs introduces a new iPod and iChat at annual conference and expo 
Associated Press 

SAN FHANCJSCO -Apple Computer Inc. chief execu­tive Steve Jobs introduced a cut-rate computer the size of a paperback on Tuesday and a tiny iPod that starts at $99 but holds far fewer songs than Apple's hard drive-based music players. 
The new products seek to make inroads against the traditionally more afford­able PC market and against lower-cost competitors to Apple's wildly popular iPod. 
The Mac mini computers go on sale Jan. 22 and rep­resent Apple's first foray into the budget desktop PC arena. which has been largely confined to personal computers that rely on Microsoft Corp.'s Windows operating system. 
Smaller than even some standalone external com­puter drives, they lack a monitor, mouse and key­board. The 40-gigabyte Mac mini will cost $499, an SO­gigabyte model $599. 
They ship with Apple's latest operating system, Mac OS X Panther, as well as the newest version of its iLife suite of digital media software programs, also unveiled Tuesday. 
"People who are thinking of switching will have no more excuses," Jobs told devotees during a keynote weight than those using 240 songs, will sell for October 2001. He said speech at Macworld Expo. hard drives for storage and $149. Apple holds 65 percent of "It's the newest and most thus better suited as exer­Until Tuesday, the lowest the hard drive-based affordable Mac ever." cise partners. cost iPod was the mini, portable music player mar­
Apple has just a 3 percent The Shuffle is smaller which costs $249 for four ket but just under a third of share of the U.S. computer than most paeks of chewing gigabytes enough to store the total market. market, and eompany exec­gum, weighs less than an about 1,000 songs. Analysts expect the new utives say they're aiming ounce and is a third of an Like other iPod models, iPods will help Apple hold with the Mac mini to woo inch thick. the new players are its lead in the MP3 market. PC users who may have felt Unlike its larger cousin, designed not to play songs Because many rival flash­Apple products were too the iPod mini, the Shuffle purchased from online based players have just 256 high-priced. lacks a display. There's a music stores that compete megabytes of storage, Apple 
"This is also a great see­scroll wheel for the eontrols with Apple's iTunes. is "sticking to its eut-above ond or third computer in so stored songs can either The iPod has helped position," said Susan the home," said Jon be played sequentially or infuse new life into Apple. Kevorkian, an industry ana­Hubenstein, an Apple senior automatically shuffled in In the past year, the lyst with !DC. "There are vice president. random order. Cupertino-based company's plenty of people who want 
The iPod Shuffle, on the Apple is selling two ver­stoek has tripled on strong an iPod but haven't been other hand. seeks to build sions of the iPod Shuftle. sales of the iPod, whieh is able to afford the $249 on Apple's heady success in The smallest-capacity emerging as one of the 21st Mini, so offering these the portable music business model will have 512 century's first cultural icons. lower-priced players allows while appealing to people megabytes of storage, which Jobs said Apple sold 4.5 Apple to attract not just new seeking flash memory­holds up to 120 songs, and million iPods in the fourth users but those who already based players, whieh are cost $99. A one-gigabyte quarter and more than 1 0 own an iPod but want an more durable and light-version. which holds up to million since its debut in even smaller version." 

Boeing sits at center of dispute 
end subsidies," U.S. Trade which has arisen between them over
Associated Press 

Representative Robert Zoellick said. trade in large civil aircraft, and to 
BRUSSELS, Belgium The Boeing President and Chief devote time and resources to doing so European Union and the United States Executive Officer Harry Stonecipher by negotiation rather than pursuing agreed Tuesday to defer pursuing called the agreement an important the dispute through wro panels." complaints with the World Trade step "to establish much-needed bal­The European Commission said EU Organization while they attempt to ance in the commercial aircraft mar­and U.S. trade negotiators would hold settle their dispute over subsidies to ket." three months of talks to try to "elimi­Airbus and Boeing through bilateral "Boeing is encouraged by the good nate different types of subsidies and talks. faith displayed by both governments, to establish fair market-based compe­
The two sides also agreed to refrain as evidenced by their understanding tition" between the two giant aircraft from giving new aid for large civil air­not to provide additional development manufaeturers. craft development or production to and production support and to refrain The talks will specifically try to Toulouse, France-based Airbus SAS from pursuing WTO litigation during reduce subsidies and come up with a and Chicago-based Boeing Co. during the time they are negotiating," list of approved aid the aircraft mak­the talks. Stonecipher said in a statement. ers can still receive. 
"For the first time in this long­The European Commission said the Tuesday's deal does not touch cur­standing dispute, the U.S. and the EU EU and Washington "confirmed their rent aid programs to the two compa­have agreed that the goal should be to willingness to resolve the dispute nies. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 12, 2005 
~================= 
Boat Club 
continued from page 1 
licnnsn to new owners, if it so dlOOSI~S. bd(m~ thl' licm1SO r1WPI1S hack to ATC owrwrship, DeHose said. . 
llownvPr, DP!losn said tho South Bm1d attorney's oflic:n would dosdy scrutinize potential buynrs earnl"ul­ly and would likdy not favor the nst.ahlishnwnt's mopnning <L'> a stu­dnnt bar. 
"I think tlw city would bn hypiW­vigilant to make sure we didn't have tlw sanw typp or operation thPre," said DeHos1~. 
Thn dty will make rm:ornnwnda­tions to tlw county alcohol board about any possible sail~ or tlw bar's licens1~. Thn board must approve any action by The Boat Club, and may also consider blocking any transli~r of thP bar's lkens1~ whaL'>o­IWer. I>eHose said. 


TsunaiDi 
continued from page 1 
Lanka, Bangladesh and Somalia." 
A Notre Dame study abroad program lwadnd for Southeast Asia will now havn iL'> partiei­panl'i focus on L'iunami rnlief. Thn Kroc Institute for Intnrnational Peace Studies, which rn1~nntly nwisnd its Mastl~r·s program in thn n~gion -nxpanding it to two years with a six-month field nxpnrimwn -will snnd thrnn studiHJts in July, said Martha Merritt. proli~ssional spm:ialist at tlw Kroc. They will work with Catholic HPiinl" Snrvicns in Soutlwast Asia, induding one student who will work in hard­hit Indonesia. sill' said. 
"[Tiw student in Indonnsial in particular will bn affected by the aftermath of the tsuna­mi, as tlw CHS is in thn proenss or restruduring their priorities and tlw rn l"o rn assessing the most urgent tasks," Merritt said. 
Sevnral Notre Damn alumni curTnntly in tlw region wnrn atlilctnd by tlw tsunami and il'> aftermath. 
lluman rights worknr and 2004 graduate Chayanit Poonyarat had just started working in Thailand whm1 the tsunami struck. Poonyarat and eo-workPrs have bnnn over­wlwlnwd with rl'lief' ntl'orl'>. 
"l.ast month I startnd a job with FOHUM-ASIA, a Bangkok-basNI regional human rights organization," said Poonyarat, in comnHmts postnd on the Kror Institute's Wnb sitll. "Many of us have bnnn back to work sinen [the l'iunami I and have bmm tPrri­bly busy working on the iSSllll." 
Hiziki Shahari. a 20(1;{ grad­uatn. felt tlw effects or thn deadly waves thousands of' milns away in Tanzania. Ten peopln. largnly lislwrman and hPachgoers, wew killed in the nast1~rn African nation. 
"Tiw disaster touches us a bit in tnrms or il'i impact, a few havn lost their lives and tlw nurnlwr could go up as some rwws are still coming from placos like Mafia Island. Zanzibar and Pmnba," Shahari said on the Kroe site. "The only relief is that all members of my family an~ linn and so far no bad rwws from dose n~latiws and friends. But <L'> a <~mrntry we arP mourning." 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@lnd.edu 

Ticketed students will face penal­ties from the St. Joseph County prosecutor's oJlice, but all pending cases have been placed on hold due to the Decmnber mtiroment of ATC prosecutor Fred Bauer, Hobbins said. The govnrnor's oflien will likely appoint a new prosocutor within the next week. she said, and penalties could be decided within 1-2 months. In past raids, studcnl'> have generally bnen ollcmd pmtri­al diversion coupled with fmes and community service hours. 
Notro Damo students will liknly receive additional punishments from the Ollke of Hesidence Life, inr.luding lines and community service requirements. The Saint Mary's student handbook bars College official'> from levying addi­tional penalties against cited stu­dent'>. 
The first raid on The Boat Club occurred in January 2003, when Excise Police cited 213 minors, most of whom were Notre Dame and Saint Mary's student<>. 
After the January 2003 raid, Bauer recommended that the bar pay a $5,000 line m1d serv1~ a one­week liennse suspnnsion, which was later postponnd. 
In April 2003, The Boat Club owner Mike McNeil' chose to sun tho minors eitnd li>r damages his bar incurred as a result of the January 2003 polieo bust. 
Many of thn studnnts appPaled the suiL<> though Indiana courl'> ulti­mately ruled for The Boat Club. Many studenl'i ehose to settll' with the bar, although some did opt to pursun their eases in eourt. 
It was not immndiately dear how suit<; still plmding might be am~etl'd by The Boat Club's dosun~. Boat Club attorney Mikh Jleppenhdmer and attorneys for students eould not be reached. 
Contact Teresa FraJish at tfraJish@nd.edu 

The Boat Club owner Mike McNnfl' could not be mached f(w eonmwnt. 
Many students expressed sad­ness about the closure of the long time student bar. 
''I'm sad bneause we had a lot of fun times and good memories thorn," said Saint Mary's senior Mary Pat Clm1iel. 
Notrn Dame senior Emily Codlnwski said tho dosing marked the end of a Notre Damn tradition. 
"What's going to happen to Hobbin the cup collector'? Boat was part of the Notre Dame expcri­nncn," said. "Truthfully, I really lovnd Boat because it had the abili­ty to unitl' ND student<; with mullet heads." 
Others students were more ambivalent about The Boat Club's dosurn. 
"I think that some other bar will bm~ome the new Boat Club because there's a lot of profit to be had," Notre Dame senior Claire !lagan 

Response 
continued from page 1 

oager to help L<>unami victims. 
Linda Timm, vice prosident for student alntirs and a coordinator lbr the event. found it significant tlmt tlw breakfa<;t took place exact­ly when the refugees would be breakfiL'>ting themsnlves. 
"It W<L'> meant to vnry symbolical­ly rnllnct solidarity wit11 those who havo lost so mueh," said Timm. "It was also an opportunity for stu­dents to get togother and ask, 'What nm we do'!"' . 
The bwakfast took place on the lirst day of the inauguration week li1r Carol Mooney, the new Saint Mary's president. Moonny, who wa<; away at tl1e time, sent remarks to be read at the breakliL'>L 
"Students wanted to have a n~sponse the first week," said Sister Mari Anne ~arina, anothnr coordi­nator of the event who worked with refugees in Bangladesh fol­lowing the 1988 cydono that killed thousands. 
"This way," she said, "we still laund1 tl1e inauh'Uration. but we do it in solidarity." 
Ent•rtalnment Evanu., Inc. preaanta 

1 ATI: NITf:

·" -'lfECHISAut "J
;.,._,:'-,~ .JVU""" 
Sontettme• We FMI Guilty Because We Ar• Guilty 
b'jM."-!0-..n 

BROAD\\:\1' TIIEAl'RE WGtJJ! 
• OF SOUTH BEND, INC:. wwvv.BroadwayTheatreLeaguc.com 
said. "I couldn't care less." 
Senior Kevin Wiseman called Boat's dosing a "blessing in dis­h'Uise." 
"I think them arc a lot bettor bars in the area," he said. 
Tim escrow action came aftnr a Dee. 9 raid in whkh police issued 32 citations for underage drinking. Jackie Hobbins, publie inJormation o[Tiecr for the Indiana Excise Police, said Exeise sent a linal report on tho raid to the ATC, but that no further actions had been taken. Further details about the bar's closure were not available duo to pending appointments of new ATC oflieials by new Indiana governor, Mitch D<minls. 
Current of[ieials eould not be maehed lor comment. 
According to Exeise Police District 1 spokesman Sgt. Michelle Traughber, many of those cited Dm:. 9 were Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, although she could not say an exact number. 
Notre Dame has aL<>o hastened to provide relief lor the L'>unami vic­tims. . 
Hepresentatives from Student Covernment, International Student Services and Activities (ISSA), the Athletic Department and the Oflice of Student Affairs have worked together to organize a fundraising drive called the Tsunami Helie[' Drive. 
The coordinators of the Tsunami Belief Drive have chosm1 to donate to Catholic Helief Services' Asian Earthquake and 'C<;unami Fund, a "extremely reputable" organization that "keeps with the mission of the university," according to Sarah Bates, chairperson of the Hesidence Life Committee of the student Senate and one of the chief plmmers of the drivn. The fund tar­geL'> every country that was hit. 
"We n~cognizn that a nwnb{~r of countries wen~ all'ectnd, and that Notre Dame faculty and students know people in each of those colll1­tl"ies," said Bates. "We trind to pick an organizat!~m that would help every country. 
The drive features a number of fundraising events throughout the next two weeks, induding collec­tions in LaFortune Student Center and at various athletic events. 
Student<; may donate within thnir residence halls through the llall President. In addition, dorm ma<;s­es on Jan. 16 will ollbr a collection [(Jr tl1e L<;unami victims. 
There will bn a Ma'>s held in the Basilica at 5:15 p.m. Thursday in honor of the dead, sumwing and all those assisting in the region. The Basilica's Sunday collections will also go to the victims through Catholic Helief Services. 
The Student Union Board has announced that donations will bn accepted at the showing of the movie "Hero" at 7 p.m. Thursday in tl1e LaFortune Ballroom, as well <L'> at Legends during the 10 p.m. Saturday concert, "The Argument". 
The Tsunami Hnlief Drive will conclude with a Bnnefit BuJTnt Dinner and Silent Auction spon­sored by Student Governrmmt and ISSA. At the nvent, held in the Coleman-Morsn lounge, students will be able to donate as they dine on a variety of A<; ian food. 
The Hammes Notrn Dame Bookstore has begun asking its patrons if they would like to donate a dollar f(Jr tl1n victims at the time of purchase. The program was eoordinatnd by iL'> eorporatn olliee, the Follett Corporation, and is sending proceeds to tim Hod Cross. 
Students have responded posi­tivnly to the bookstore's efliJrL'>. 
"![donated a dollar[." said O'N1~ill freshman Jerell Hognrs. "I pnrson­ally think it's a great way to help." 
In addition to on-<:ampus collnc­tions, the Cnntnr for Social Concerns has postnd a list of U.S and intnrnational relief organiza­tions accepting contributions. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 




CheckingI 

four products 
es. 
0 


NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
oYou can bank on us 
to be better 

574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 


·------------------------------------~~---------------------------------------------­
r---~-~--~---~-~­
Wednesday, January 12, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Building 
continued from page 1 
getting settled but we worked hard on the other end so that we were very organized and deliberate in the moving process," said Rex Rakow, director of NDSP. "We never close, so it was a tactical exer­cise to keep providing services and physically moving all of our belon~ngs, equipment and personnel. 
Though there were some 
"anxious times" with switching 
the department's communica­
tions dispatch system, alarm 
center and CCTV, Rakow said 
he was impressed by the dedi­
cation of his staff throughout 
the transition. 
The new facility has many updated and unique features. The previous NDSP building, erected in 1944, was originally built as a temporary structure. After waiting 60 years for a permanent home, NDSP now has a 24-hour ATM machine, an interview room, meetings rooms for local, county and. state law enforcement training and safe building entry areas through the garage so those in custody can avoid the public if necessary. 
"One of the most exciting 
featun~s of the building is the 
inclusion of both an academic 
classroom and a seminar 
room. Normal student academ­
ic classes will be held here on 
a daily basis," Rakow said. 
"We like to have students in 
the building when they are not 
in distress or taking care of 
security business." 
In 
The post office takes up only 5,000 square feet in the lower level of the building. That is only a 44 square foot increase from the previous post office located near Main Circle. Though the space is not much larger, the addition of new loading docks, parking areas and a new access route to Douglas Road are an improve­ment from the old facility. 
Notre Dame Postmaster Ellen Bystrom told the South Bend Tribune that she is confi­dent about the new facility drawing business due to its location off Douglas and Juniper Roads. 
The Observer was unable to reach Bystrom on Tuesday. 
NDSP used the move as an opportunity to evaluate their work and make improvements for the future. 
"Any new structure allows you the luxury of examining your operational needs and systems. We have been able to more efficiently group work units to enhance communica­tion and operational func­tions," said Rakow. "Additionally, we have been able to upgrade our emer­gency dispatch center with equipment and facilities that will greatly help in times of emergency and major event days." 
The new facility was under­written by Jerry and Dorene Hammes of South Bend, Ind., their son; Jeffrey Hammes of Kankakee, Ill; and their nephew, Jerry Hammes Mowbray of Reno, Nev. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

r--------------,--------------------~ 
1") .

I I'OJH'If'IOJ'S I \\aJ'I'PII & J,inda




0 c c 0 s 

I 1 Hestaurant 
I 
1Tirst Ori8ina( Pizza in ~own! 
Since 1951 

Sp<'cializing in Italian Enlt'<'<'S Tilt'S. -Thill'S.: 5:00P\I -11 :OOP\1 Fri. -Sat.: 5:00P~I -I:00\M 

;,·~; !\iortlt St. Louis Soutlt Bend, II\! S/1-213-21()1 

C111 Olll 1l1is <"ollpon f'o1· $2.00 ol'f' any pizza. Dint'-in only. E:xpil'es ·~n 1/200!1 

Housing 
continued from page 1 
uted to the extra space to students who graduated a semester early, chose to break their contract and move off­campus or withdrew from the University. 
The greatest number of vacancies by far was due to those choosing to spend the second semester in off-campus housing, Shoup said, but exact numbers were not available because many do not report that they have moved until the day they return from break. 
Because of the extra rooms, all the women displaced to Saint Mary's were able to move back to Notre Dame as space became available, or fmd housing off campus. 
Michelle Russell, director of Residence life at Saint Mary's, said that approximately 12 Notre Dame transfers were in Regina for the entire semester, and that they were not given the option of remaining at or problems with the Notre Dame students living in Regina. I would say everything went as planned," Russell said. "We were able to help Notre Dame with a housing shortage and I think the women who lived here enjoyed the experi­ence." 
As for the freshmen experi­encing the squeeze of increased occupancy rooms, Shoup said that moving them was not a feasible option, part­ly because of the scattered nature of the available space. He did say, however, that they would try to accommodate stu­dents who presented them with reasons of why they had to move to a new room. 
"Our experience in the past though is that most of the stu­dents would prefer not to go through the hassle of moving, now that they're used to their roommates," Shoup said. "There were a few complaints because of the overcrowding at first, but once we got people in and started with the semes­ter, they realized it was not too bad." 
Saint Mary's for the rest of the 
year. Contact Amanda Michaels at "I didn't have any complaints amichael@nd.edu 

Ra01adan 
continued from page 1 
problems with the govern­ment -the State Department revoked his visa in August, on the recommendation of the Homeland Security Administration -cost the Kroc significant time and energy, Appleby said Ramadan's specific difficulties will not outweigh the Institute's overall pursuit of diverse opinions and academ­ic freedom. 
"The Muslim voice needs to 
be heard on campus and in 
the country," he said. 
Ramadan resigned his appointment as the Henry R. Luce Professor of Religion, Conflict and Peacebuilding at the end of the fall semester, writing to Appleby that the unresolved situation was tak­ing a stressful toll on him and his family. The scholar had reapplied for a visa in October through the U.S. Embassy in 
Want to be the 
his native Switzerland but had received no word from the State Department at the time of his resignation, Appleby said. 
Ramadan's visa is unlikely to be granted now that a teaching appointment does not await him in the United States, Appleby said. The Luce professorship remains open, and Kroc officials will hold discussions with the Office of the Provost and the Luce Foundation in the coming weeks to determine its future. 
"I can't predict how a future search would unfold, so I don't know if we'll wind up with someone from the Islamic world," Appleby said, adding that the Luce position does not require a particular religion or background. 
Appleby remains in contact with Ramadan but has not received any definitive word on the scholar's future plans. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 
STlJDENT BODY PRESIDENT OR VICE PRESIDENT? 
Come to the Election Informational Meeting 
TONIGHT Wednesday, January 12,2005 8 p.m. 
Foster Room 3rd Floor LaFortune 
ATTENDANCE STRONGLY ENCOURAGED­
all necessary materials will be distributed 
Questions? E-mail icouncil((P,nd.edu or call 631-5136 

Students report theft toNDSP 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
An effort by Notre Dame Security/Police to forewarn students about possible larce­ny during finals week and winter break helped thwart some crime, but instances of theft were still reported, NDSP assistant director Phillip Johnson said. 
Alumni Hall in particular experienced-a string of crimes before and during finals week, he said. 
Two instances of theft were reported Dec. 11 when wallets were stolen from dif­ferent unlocked dorm rooms. 
Four days later, a credit card was taken from a public space and fraudulently used, Johnson said. He could not confirm a relationship between the incidents. 
On-campus crimes like these could have been avoid­ed if the students locked the door when not in room, Johnson said. 
"While locking the door while not in the room is counter to what many typical students do, we did experi­ence theft inside residence halls," Johnson said. 
As in past years, incidents of larceny in the dining hall areas were also reported dur­ing the last week of the semester. 
Backpacks were stolen on two separate occasions from both North and South dining halls Dec. 12 and Dec. 14. Both were recovered with items missing. 
Off-campus theft also occurred, with four break-ins reported, Johnson said. NDSP was unable to elaborate on the specifics of these crimes, he said, but affirmed that the crimes did not occur at the major off-campus housing complexes Turtle Creek, College Park or Castle Point. 
Johnson said that break-ins might have been prevented if more off-campus students had taken advantage of the storage space granted by NDSP. 
"Only a handful of students took advantage of the oppor­tunity provided by NDSP to store their belongings in a secure location," Johnson said. 
Few students adhered to storage suggestions provided by NDSP in their pre-winter break memo. Conversely, a number of students made use of the secured D2 South park­ing lot, said Johnson. No on­campus car break-ins were reported to NDSP over winter break. 
Other recommendations given by NDSP also caused students to be more vigilant before, during and after final exam week, he said. 
"I think that the informa­tion sent out had an influence on the low number of oppor­tunistic crimes on campus this year," Johnson said. "In the future NDSP will continue to draw attention to times when students might be vul­nerable." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 
THE 0HSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, January 12, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
The United States of Stinginess? 
I~O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46S56 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Man Lozar 

MANAGIN<; EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Mcghannc Downt'S  Mike Flanagan  
AsSl~ MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VmWI'OINT EuiTOR: Sarah Yabulas SroRTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAI'HICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen C..ONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsmc@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsncws.l@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(S74) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Ediwrial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as pos.,ible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistam Managing Editor and department editors. Commt·maries. letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily th<1~e of'The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. l-t•tters to the Ediror must he signed and must indudl' contat:t inf()rrnation. 
QurHiotls rq;arding Observer po!icits should be directed to F.rlitor itt C/JiefMatt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The: Oh.krv<r {USPS '5':19 l "liOOJ is published Mond11;y duou~h Friday txttpt during eum.md vac.uion pcric><.b.. A 1Uh~rlp1ion to Tl\1.' Ohstrver i$ $100 tOr one ~c.ldcmk Yt!Jr: $')')lor unc ~mc.m:r. The Olmrvc1 ~~ .. mrmbcr ot rbc ~x.i.ucd f're~o~. All reproducrion rij\ht~ arc: 
· re.krved. 
The Oh~rvc:r b pnllli~htd .u. P.O.Dc1~Q 1)24 Suufh Dining !!all 021 Somh Dining. Hall NMre l>1unc:, IN 46"i-'i6-077'i Nmre Dame. IN 46S56-0n9 !'l;'tuKIII.:.Il pnsf<~;Ke po~id lit Nolf't o-..mc .md .:~ddidun.ll m.1iling oflkn. 
POSTMASTER ~nd addren corro!clloru to; Thc<1h.trv<"r 
The Ol~rvtr is J. memhc-r ofthe A.\liOCilu:d Pw•.~. All r<:""prudu.:tiun ntthrs ;Ut' rC~~CrYtd. 

It's great to be back from break, but being the townie I am I don't know if it is even appropriate to use the phrase "back from break." At any rate, I'll admit it will be great to get back to a regular schedule. During break, my Tom Rippinger definition of regu­
Confessions ofa
lar schedule 

Campus
steadily deterio­

Conservative
rated into getting up at noon with varied rotations of playing Xbox, Playstation 2 and PC games. Oh well, with Rolfs closed and the six degree temperatures many of you missed in South Bend during break, there was not much else pressing on the agenda. 
Although I'll admit my own personal laziness, I'd like to answer yet another departure from reality in the thinking of the United Nations. Amid the con­tinued shockwaves of the Oil for Food debacle, U.N. Emergency Relief Coordinator Jan Egeland had the gall to call the response of the United States and the developed world "stingy." This issue reveals the true nature of a rampant anti-Americanism within the international community that takes no regard of facts. With a few simple Google searches, I was able to find enough information to verify my initial feeling that this state­ment was thoroughly false. 
A Jan. 6 press release by The Heritage Foundation's Brett D. Schaefer was one of two excellent resources I found to counter this accu­sation. It is based on a ratio of aid ver­sus Gross National Income that places the United States at dead last with a ratio of .15 percent. However, as Schaefer's argument points out, the problem with this formula is fivefold. First, U.S. Aid remains the world's sin­gle largest donor in dollars at $16.2 billion a year; with a second-place Japan well behind at $8.9 billion. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
caglecartoons.com 

Second, substantial donations by U.S. 
private charities are ignored. These 
donations totaled $33.6 billion in the year 2000 alone. 
The local Catholic diocese of Ft. Wayne-South Bend is a great example of this phenomenon just mentioned. On Jan. 9, Archbishop John D'Arcy implemented an effort to send all col­lection money above and beyond the operating costs of each parish directly to the Catholic bishops in Thailand and Indonesia to aid in the relief effort. In one isolated example Sunday, I saw almost everyone within the parish reach for their respective wallets or purses to pitch in a few extra dollars in acts of generosity that will continue to be overlooked by those who are blinded by anti­Americanism. 
Third on Schaefer's list of rebuttals is the fact that the U.S. continues to contribute 70 percent of food aid for humanitarian operations. Its role in humanitarian efforts provided $2.5 billion in disaster relief in the year 2003 alone, coming close to the com­bined total of the rest of world aid of $3.5 billion. Fourth, the very United Nations organizations critical of U.S. aid depend on their generosity to remain in operation. Specifically, the 
U.S. is responsible for 22 percent of the U.N. overall budget and 56 percent of the World Food Program's budget. Finally, the prospect is not considered that all aid is not equal within the developing world. Many recipients of development aid within Sub-Saharan Africa are actually becoming poorer. This helps build a case for the United States method of aid, which advocates fundamental economic and political reforms as a condition of aid. 
A Jan. 3 Insight magazine article by Roland Flamini opened up a second front of criticism against those so quick to call the United States stingy. 
Where is the response of the Muslim 
world to a disaster that largely affect­
ed the world's most populous Muslim 
country? Consulting a Jan. 9 release 
from the Associated Press, still only 
Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates 
made the list of the top 21 nations in 
aid contributions. Kuwait gave $100 
million, while the UAE gave $20 mil­
lion. Saudi Arabia was expected to 
eventually pledge $36 million and 
Bahrain (one of the most wealthy 
countries in the world) was expected to pledge $2 million. Those 
entrenched with anti-American mind­
sets are reluctant to level similar 
blame at these nations. 

Contrasting these numbers with those of Australia, Germany, Japan and the United States it is hardly appropriate to call their generous aid and logistical support stingy. Looking over the numbers and seeing the response of the United States and other generous benefactors have been much needed bright spots in a still troubled and anarchic world. I was touched to see former President Bill Clinton speaking out advocating chari­ty with President George Bush, Sr. on CNN. lie cut through the politics of the issue by urging the average American reluctant to believe they could make a difference to "pitch in the five or ten dollars they may be able to spare as opposed to doing nothing." In the end, it is only that sort of positive dialogue and grassroots generosity that will really make a difference in this tragic situation. 
Tom Rippinger is a senior political science major. He supports President Bush and is the co-President of the Notre Dame College Republicans. He can be contacted at trippinl@nd.edu. 
The views of this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports 

Kate Antonacci Justin Schuver Megan O'Neil Kate Gales Jeannine Privat Kevin Brennan 
What are you planning to do to aid
Viewpoint Scene Sarah Vabulas Becca Saunders the tsunami victims? Graphics Illustrator Graham Ebetsch Graham Ebetsch 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"!hear and I forget. I see and I remember. I do and I understand. " 
Confucius philosopher 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 12, 2005 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Charlie Ebersol thanks Notre Dame family 
Dear Notre Dame Family, 
Thank you from the bottom of my heart. I will never be able to repay the love I felt from so many of you. I hope you all know what wonderful people our beautiful Notre Dame Family has. The endless letters, ernails and phone calls to my family, and me and the donations to my brother's charity are overwhelming. While I wouldn't wish a tragedy like this on my worst enemy, I do wish that each and every one of you would one day feel-if just for one moment-the gracious heart that beats on our cam­pus. I love Notre Dame in a way many may never understand. When I was down, the school picked me up, and when I was up, the school kept me humble. To be honest, the love I was taught in my family and at Notre Dame gave me a sense of immortali­ty that I believe my brother now enjoys. 
I tell people, when they ask, that when I went back onto the airplane after my father was off safely, I just expected to find my brother. I just "knew" he wa,s going to be all right. When I didn't find him, I was shocked and angry. Now, when I think back on it, I am beginning to understand that he is all right. In fact, I believe he is in a better place than the rest of us. It is the selfish part in all of us that scorns death and wishes for immortality here on earth. I wish I still had my brother in my life. He had a way with people that brought joy into their lives. Faced with a tragedy like this, he would work his magic as he healed our pain and brought back the greatest medicine of all: laughter. When I think about that, I smile, because I realize that he does not need to be here in person to do that ... I just wish he were. 
There will be a time in your life when you need someone. You will be hurt, or you will be sad, and you will pray for a shoulder to cry on or an ear to talk to. Every night, just before I fall asleep, I pray to God that He will let me be there for you the way each and everyone of you was here for me. There is a hole in my family's heart now, but you should all know that it is the Notre Dame family that is helping us feel the rest of it beat life and love back into our bodies. My family and I wish to thank you for that. 
May God bless each of you. 

Charlie Ebersol senior off-campus Jan. II 
Tsunami victims 
express gratitude 
As parents who are deeply touched by the love and concern that was shown to our son Dina! by the priests, academic community and friends of both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, we thought of writing this note to thank you for your prayers and for being concerned. There were hundreds of e-mails that started pouring in offer­ing prayers, and each one of you wanted to know whether Dinal and both of us were safe in Sri Lanka. 
There was even a message of concern televised on CNN asking for Dinal's where­abouts by a friend. We want to thank all of you for your display of love and affec­tion towards us. It is comforting for us, as parents living so far away, to see a bond that exists between our son Dina! and his friends at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. This is truly a display of a great spirit from the communities of two unique institu­tions. 
It is no doubt a gruelling experience for all of us in Sri Lanka. We have lost over 46,000 lives. We have several of our friends and known people amongst them. There are hundreds of thousand of infants and children who have lost their moth­ers, fathers, sisters and brothers. there is over a million people who had lost their homes. Their wounds will take many years to heal. The only comfort we have is to think that the Good Lord will guide them towards healing their wounds fast. 
Thank you again for your love, concern and prayers. Dinal will be amongst you soon to tell the real story. May God bless you all. 
Kamini and Athula Edirisinghe Notre Dame parents Jan. 8 
U-WIRE 


Let's get rid of textbooks 
It's textbook buying time once again, and I'm sure more than a few people are as amazed at how much the dang things cost. Everyone has these woes, but there's nothing we can do about it. 
Many books aren't even used, Jason Roberts and I'm notjust talking about by Oklahoma State people who never University Daily show up to class. O'Collegian One year, my whole elass bought a "required" book, only to find out halfway through the year that the professor didn't even know the book existed. It sucks, but there's nothing we can do about it. Or is there? Giant tomes of indecipherable text an~ a thing of the past. I suggest we serap the whole thing and adopt a new, technologically advanced system: The eBook. 
The way it would work is pretty simple. Everyone at the university would be mquired to buy an eBook reader, basical­ly an inexpensive handheld computer. You can get one for under $200, well under the average cost of a single semes­ter's texts. And ifyou have a personal dig­ital assistant to begin with, you're already set. 
When it eomes time to buy your books, just download them from the Internet at a fraction of the cost of a book. I'd be will­ing to bet you could do this for under $100. Now there's no lugging heavy books to class every day. Simply put your reader in your pocket and you're off. 
"Sounds like a great plan, Jason, so why aren't we doing it?" 
I'm not such an egomaniac that I think I'm the first to think of this. The problem, then, lies with the publishers, who don't want to release their stranglehold on our wallets. A great part of a book's expense must be the printing. With this system, that's completely gone. Once a book is ready for print, that's the end of expenses -every digital copy costs nothing more to make than the original. So while the publisher makes less on individual title sales, their overhead is eut drastically. They would be crazy not to. 
What about the bookstore? To that I say, someone has to sell the readers, right? Not only that, but the stores could just have a smaller physical locations, and provide download centers for books, in store and online. 
I think we should all throw our support behind the eBook before heavy bags · throw out our backs. 
This column originally appeared on Jan. 11 in the Daily O'Collegian, the daily publication at Oklahoma State University. 
The views expressed in the column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Remembering Martin Luther King, Jr. 
It is important that we acknowledge and celebrate Martin Luther J\,ing, Jr's contribution not just on his holiday, but throughout each year. Many people take for granted what he has done to make our world significantly better. King yearned for everyone "not to be judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character." He was tired of the brutal beatings, hangings, mass murders and several other devastating practices that minorities endured because of their superficial appearance. 
He dedicated his life to doing everything in his power to end racial injus­tices. During his lifetime, African Americans were thought of by many as a fraction of a person and were forced to attend schools that were poorly fund­ed if they had any desire of obtaining an education. Also, European Americans severely limited the number of African Americans who were allowed to vote with clever methods such as a poll tax and a literary test where officials sometimes failed minorities even if they really passed. 
King could have let his temper get the best of him and use excessive vio­lence to counter the myriad of injustices. Instead, he used non-violent protests to help stop blatant acts of racism from taking place. 
King was assassinated in 1968. Since then, blatant racism has dramatically decreased, but subtle racism is a part of our world today. African Americans make up 50 percent of jail inmates in America, yet they make up less than 15 percent of America's population. Latinos are second in jail population. Many people are still being negatively judged prematurely because of their skin tone. That needs to stop now. Until it does, King's dream will not be fully achieved. 
God commands us to "love one another as yourself." If we fulfill this com­mandment, we will also achieve the dream that King worked relentlessly to make a reality. On King's holiday, I ask that you consider everything that he has done for us and celebrate him and his legacy while working to help the world truly realize his dream. 
William David Williams freshman Alumni Hall Jan. II 

• 
tea 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, January 12, 2005 
Nintendo 

BOOK REVIEW 
For Gourmet Chefs Only 
'Gourmet' Magazine releases a cookbook with difficult but delicious dishes 
The features of the Ni but some o go. Competition has attempted interfer­By MARK BEMENDERFER ence many times, none of which have Scene Crttic been successful. The Atari Lynx, the Sega Game Gear and Nomad and the Nokia N­For the past decade Nintendo has dom­Gage have all tried to dethrone the inated the handheld gaming market. The Nintendo Gameboy as king. Part of their Nintendo Gameboy has, since its concep­failure has been due to innovation on the tion, become a staple for gaming on the part of Nintendo. Ever since the  
Ii ' Photo courtesy of Nintendo OS Pack Compact and sleek, the Nintendo OS is not only one of the smallest versions of a gaming system. It is also one of the most advanced gaming systems available.  
Super Mario  
previous games, such as his nut By MARK BEMENDERFER famous tongue. He's one of the b Scene Critic but suffers in the speed and power Mario is the same as he was in With all of the Nintendo consoles available, version. Moderately fast, mediocre j it remains true that the essential games are age power; Mario is the most the ones made by Nintendo itself. This is once character. He lost some of his again true with the launch of the Nintendo OS. other characters to make the game Of all the launch titles, "Super Mario 64 OS" is anced, but has had some new by far the best. well. Overall, he'll be one of the It should be immediately noted that this is quently used characters. not a new game. As the title suggests, this is a Luigi is the character that most port of the Nintendo 64 title of similar name, stick with once he is unlocked. He h updated for a new genera-jump, medium tion. Fans of the Nintendo rather wea 64 version should find However, heSuperenough new action to sat­the most due isfy them as much as new Mario 64 DS acter specifi players. Luigi can run For starters, there are Ni.ntendo float-like a h four playable characters Available for and has a fl this time. The ensemble Nintendo OS much like Y cast includes the essential people that Mario, the budding star through theRating: A-Luigi, the ever-loveable using Luigi Yoshi and the dastardly the game appe Wario. The group is well cantly easier th rounded, each with their own strengths and inally was. weaknesses. Each has their uses, but some Wario in particular seems like he characters find more playing time than others. used a little more fine-tuning, as o Yoshi is the character that players start the he is easily the weakest. He fills the game out as. Like previous games, the slow strong guy, which while use Princess has once again been kidnapped and video games, doesn't really have a this time it is up to Yoshi to rescue her. platform like Super Mario 64. lie Everything is left up to Yoshi as Mario and certain times in the game in which Luigi have disappeared as well, leaving the is required, but few will use him task squarely on Yoshi 's green shoulders. This is unfortunate, as he is also Yoshi has some of the abilities showcased in ficult character to unlock, and a fan  


By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 
When Huth Heiehl set out to create "The Gourmet Cookbook," she was working with over 60 years worth of the best recipes that could be 
shrimp and cucumber with wasabi avocado cream. If your favorite food, now and forever, is cheese pizza, this may not be the book to get you through. However, if you like serving elassics with a little bit of flair, you might enjoy making Moroccan-style carrots instead of just boiling them. 


"The Gourmet
found. Since its 
first publication in 
Cookbook" offers a 

1941, Gourmet 
new spin on almost 
any food or favorite

Magazine has pub­
ingredient. you can

lished over 50,000 
think of. If you are

recipes of all kinds. 
willing to take some

Heichl, the editor 
time exploring it and

in chief, enlisted 
are willing to endure

the help of count­
a few possible recipe 

less members of 
disasters, you will

her staff to sort 
through all of them and bring together the best of the best in one collection. As with any cook­almost surely discov­er some new favorites. Reichl may send you on a search for ethnic food mar­
ingredients, tem­peratures and other details worked best. or course with recipes from so many eras, cre­ating "The Gourmet Cookbook" also required changing recipes for tastes and equipment that have changed over the years; along with sometimes incorporating ingredients that were impossible to find 50 years ago but are common today. 
Heichl writes that she wanted to create a cookbook with "every recipe you could ever want." The book does con­tain ample recipes for any occasion, but it is definitely a book for "food­ies," those peo­ple who make a habit of cooking and a hobby of recipes. Heichl and her editors have aimed for the best reeipes, not the most conven­ient ones. If you do not care to stock your kitehen with an array of spices or occasionally wander around the produce section looking for kale or chipotle chilies, or if you aren't quite sure what it means to sautli something, this might not be the book for you. 
Reichl and her editors have included numerous recipes for some classic favorite foods, such as nine recipes for chocolate cake. This does not, however, include the basic chocolate cake that you will actually find at most parties. There is likewise no basic chicken soup lodged between the recipes for cold buttermilk with 
book, this required kets for some spe­testing every cialty ingredients,
Photo courtesy of www.amazon.com
recipe many times which can be a
"The Gourmet Cookbook" is 
to find out what favorite adventure
for the serious cook only. 
for a true "foodie." 
However, if a poblano chile or shiso leaves are not readily available and you do not want to search for them, many of the recipes can be modified with things that you can find. No recipe, not even one presented by Gourmet magazine, is ever truly authoritative, and a change may even be an improvement. Just be careful to read the provided explanations before assuming that one ingredient will go for another -
Reichl may save 
you  from  the  
mistake  of  
assuming,  for  

example, that the jalapeno can be replaced with its small orange cousin, the habanero, which looks innocent but is in fact 30 to 50 times spici­er. Reichl, in the tradition of her magazine and many great cooks, does not focus on the health aspects or weight consider­ations of her recipes. While some foods, such as caramel cheesecake, are worth the calo­ries, it may not 
hurt to cut the amounts of butter or oil that go into preparing others. Perhaps the best part about "The Gourmet Cookbook" is that its recipes are already tweaked for a new gener­ation and will perhaps be useful, with modifications, for another sixty years. Picking up "The Gourmet Cookbook" just may add a little bit of variety to your life. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 






NSIDER 
OTHE 

Wednesday, January 12, 2005 BSERVER Oregon State 38, Notre Dame 21 
Finally over 
Roller coaster season ends in 38-21 Insight Bowl loss 
With the Beavers up 14-0 By HEATHER after one quarter, the Irish were VAN HOEGARDEN unable to mount any scoring Sports Editor drives, as they were forced to 
punt each of their first five pos­
PHOENIX -It was much of sessions. the same images Notre Dame "I think it really came down has seen all season -getting to us not making the plays beat in the air early and often when we needed to," Quinn and an inability to make the big said. play. Finally, the Irish put together 
And with that, the Tyrone a 13-play, 84-yard drive high­Willingham era ended Dec. 28 lighted by a 13-yard touchdown with a Notre Dame loss to pass from Quinn to tight end Oregon State 38-21 in the Anthony Fasano to get on the Insight Bowl. board with just under a minute 
Beaver quarterback Derek to play in the half. Anderson threw for 358 yards "We knew we could stop them including four touchdowns and defensively," Budinscak said. no interceptions en route to "Obviously, we had some of the claiming the game's Most same problems we had all year. Valuable Player honor. We gave up some passes, but 
"We knew they were going to we settled down on defense, but throw the ball," Irish linebacker we couldn't stop them. The Derek Curry said. "It was a offense had a big touchdown matter of us stopping it or not, with Anthony [Fasano] going in. and we didn't do it We weren't ready effectively enough. to quit the whole We gave up some game."
"The short field 
easy touchdowns The Irish con­
position in the first 
early on and tinued to fight couldn't quite halfjust killed us. '' back in the third recover. quarter when Oregon State (7-Jerome Collins
Kent Baer
5) jumped out to a blocked a Sam 

Irish interim head 
21-0 lead after a Paulescu punt, 52-yard punt coach giving Notre return by Sammie Dame the ball on Stroughter and the Oregon State blocked punt by Derrick 49-yard line. Notre Dame cut Doggett led to two straight the lead to 10 after a 5-yard Beaver scores. touchdown scamper by Darius "The short field position in Walker capped a 49-yard drive. the first half just killed us," On the ensuing kickoff, Irish interim head coach Kent Chinedum Ndukwe stopped Baer said. "You take that away Lamar Herron at the Oregon and it's a much closer game, State 10-yard line to pin the but that's all part of it." Beavers with 2:49 to play in the 
Brady Quinn threw for two third quarter. touchdowns and 214 yards, But that was as close as Notre with one intercep-Dame would tion for Notre come. 
Dame (6-6), play­ing for the first time without for­ "We had to get a couple stops there  Plagued once again by poor play in the sec­ 
mer  head coach  and we didn't do it."  ondary, Oregon  
Willingham, who  State  marched  
was fired month. Oregon  last State  Kent Baer Irish interim head  downfield, start­ing with a 25­yard pass from  
began the scoring  coach  Anderson  to  
with  a  12-yard  Newton on sec- 
Anderson touch­ ond-and-10, and  

down pass to George Gillett. ending with a one-yard toss The Beavers started the drive at from Anderson to Newton the Notre Dame 27 -yard line to (seven catches, 85 yards) for his start the drive after a punt second touchdown and a 31-14 return by Straughter. lead. 
After the blocked punt, "It was frustrating because I Oregon State started at the thought we were right back in Notre Dame 4-yard line, only to it," Baer said. "We had to get a lose seven yards on a Kyle couple stops there and we did­Budinscak sack. But Anderson n't do it." responded, throwin~· ~•n 11-Notre Dame would score two yard bullet to Joe N( m for possessions later on a pass from the score. Quinn to Rhema McKnight from 

18 yards out to make it 31-21, finished with 90 yards receiving but it was too little too late. on four catches, and Jeff 
Oregon  State  Samardzija had  
recovered the onside kick and proceeded to score after a 21-yard  "We weren't ready to quit the whole ,game.  five catches for 89 yards. Walker had a game high 43 yards on the  
completion to Mike  ground.  
Hass and a Dwight Wright 2-yard touchdown scam­ Kyle Budinscak Irish defensive end  Oregon State continued its winning streak,  
per to make it 38­ finishing the sea­ 

21. Hass finished with 105 son with wins in six of its last 
yards receiving on five catches. seven games after starting 1-4. For Notre Dame, McKnight Meanwhile, the Irish are set to begin a new era with new coach Charlie Weis, offensive coordinator of the NFL's New England Patriots. 
"There's so much talent here," Curry said. "There's a lot of young guys who can do a lot of great things with the new system coming up. And I hope those guys really play like they can play. They'll be fine." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
player of the game 


Derek Anderson 

The senior quarterback led the Beavers, throwing for four touch­downs and 358 yards on 28-for-45 passing with no interceptions. 
stat of the game 
358 

Number ofpassing yards given up by the Irish secondary. 
play of the game 
Anderson's 25-yard completion in the third quarter 
Anderson found Joe Newton from his own w-yard fine sparking a touch­down drive that put the game away 
quote of the game 
"[Notre Dame] is everything that you ever thought it was and much more. " 
Kent Baer Irish interim head coach 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, January 12, 2005 

report card 
B 


8­A­
c 
B+ 
c 
F 
D D 

quarterbacks: Quinn played a solid game, dnspite one interception. lie threw for 214 yards on 17-for-29 passing, including two touch­downs. 
running backs: Walker finished with 43 yards, enough for the freshman rush­ing record. but he needed 13 carries to get it. Grant was inell"eetive, car­ring 14 times for 19 yards. 
receivers: Samardzija stepped up in 
Stovall and Shelton's absence, and 
McKnight played well also. They 
aceounted for nine 1:atches and 179 
yards together. 

offensive line: The line gave up two sacks and the Irish rushing game struggled. They failed to open up sig­nilkant holes fi>r the Irish running backs but had decfmt pass protection. 
defensive line: The dnfensivc line was solid, getting good pressure on Anderson. Budinscak had two sacks and the Beavers running game was non-existant, as they finishod with 20 yards. 
linebackers: Curry got burned in pass coverage fi>r a touchdown. Tho rost of 
the unit was not spectacular, re1-,ristcring just 10 uu:kles bdween the three 
stltrtPrs. 

defensive backs: The unit gave up the big play ov1w and over. Ellkk was burned rnpeatndly, as was Zbikowski, Burrnll and almost every otlwr mrner. Anderson had a field day. 
special teams: .Jorome Collins blocked a punt, but that was about all the posi­tives in this unit. They lost the field position game, giving up a big return and a blocked punt. 
coaching: Give them crodit fbr sticking around to mach the game. The offensive playr:alling wa..'l questionabln at times, but tllis didn't eost Notre Dame the game, poor perlbrmanee on the field did. 

2.06 
overall: The eombination of poor field position and poor secondary play was too much for the Irish to overcome. They now wait for Charlie Weis. 
adding up the nun1bers 
straight losses Notre Dame has in a bowl game, dating back to the 1993 season 
7 
14 
number of touchdown passes the Irish have given up in the last three games to 
Pittsburgh, USC and Oregon State 
number of interceptions by the Irish defense, despite 45 pass attempts by 
0
Derek Anderson 

2 0 
yards rushing by Oregon State, good for an average of1.1 yards per carry 
number of times Oregon State was forced to punt the entire game 
1 
2 586 
yards passing by Notre Dame's Brady Quinn, second on Notre ' Dame's single season passing list 
punts blocked by senior tight end Jerome 
3 
Collins this season 
6:53 
time of possession for Notre Dame's first scoring drive of the game, the longest drive of the season 
PHOENIX-The question wasn't even supposed to be asked. 
An Insight Bowl official said two more questions for Irish interim head coach Kent Baer, but a third one snuck in 
there. 
A reporter asked Baer about whether there was a sense of relief or sadness after the turmoil dur­ing the four 

weeks leading Matt Lozar 
up to the Dee. 
28 Insight Bowl. 
Not exactly a 
surprising ques-Sports Writer tion, and the first part of 
Baer's answer was as straightfor­
ward as one would expect. 
"There is a sense of relief, but there's also some sadness involved," Baer said. ''I've said this before and I'll say it again just to have the opportunity in one time in my career to walk in Notre Dame Stadium and having coached against Notre Dame was special to me." 
But then the second part of his answer revealed a side of Baer not seen by the media. 
"It's been such a tremendous experience for me and I'm thankful for that," Baer said. "When you look at Notre Dame before I ever got there and you wonder what it's all about and it's everything that you ever thought it was and much more. 
''I'm proud to say that I coached there and someday will say those guys did it with a lot of class and a lot of character." 
It wasn't what Baer said that was surprising. 

It was the way he said it. 
Baer emphasized the word tremendous. He showed feeling when he said "everything that you ever thought," stressing each word. He trailed off when talking about class and character knowing he was part of a staff that ultimately dido 't do what it was asked to when hired three years ago and handed the opportunity of a lifetime. 
All of that emotion about a coach­ing job where so much controversy hung over the Nov. 30 firing of Tyrone Willingham. 
Notre Dame fans knew about defensive line coach Greg Mattison's love for this University. Hearing tion directors. He was thanking the 
football beat writers. He was wan­dering in front of the Notre Dame locker room in the tunnels of Bank One Ballpark looking like he didn't want to leave. 
Maybe it was Baer changing since he was now the spokesman, at least for one game, of the Notre Dame football program. 
Maybe it was Baer taking his time since he didn't take that extra time on Nov. 13 -when hn unknowingly walked ofT the Irish sideline for thfl last time. 
Maybe it was Baer just being hon­est. "I know there's a championship team 

him mention it on "I know there's a in that room," Baer bowl media day when said, "and I'm look­
championship team

talking about coach­ing forward to watch­ing at the University in that room, and ing them next year." of Florida next season I'm looking forward Just like his boss, wasn't eye-opening. Baer did go out with
to watching them 

For someone like class and eharaeter. Baer, it wasn't as next year." Ask his players. obvious. Fifth-year senior 
When Baer came defensive end Kyle
Kent Baer 

along with 
Irish Interim head coach Budinscak, as honest 

Willingham to South Bend in 2002, he did-n't have the friend­liest personality on the coaching staff. A running joke was that he lit up for reporters only when the television cameras showed up after practice. 
He was the same way on the field. In his book, "Return to Glory," detailing Willingham's first year at Notre Dame, Alan Grant wrote, "Every team has that one coach of whom the players are a little afraid, who intimidates in that tough-love sort of way, and for Notre Dame, Kent Baer was him." 
But that wasn't the Kent Baer seen after the Insight Bowl. 
Baer was hugging sports informa­a player as there is on this team, was talking about the coaching stafT after 
the game coaehing the players the same way they did before having lame-duck status. 
"We had a buneh of coaches fdoing that) and I can't even fathom how they did that under those cir­cumstances," Budinseak said. ''I'm grateful for that." 
When he said that, he looked directly at one person in the room. I le looked at Baer. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not of The Observer. Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
page 3 

Wednesday, January 12, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Seniors lead despite disappointment 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
PHOENIX-They were the heart and soul of the team. They had three coaches. And they had never won a bowl game. 
The trend continued for the Notre Dame senior class Dec. 28 with a 38-21 loss to Oregon State, a disappointing end to a roller coaster season. 
"It was definitely frustrat­ing," Irish linebacker Derek Curry said. "We were playing hard." 
Notre Dame fell behind 21­0 after poor field position hurt the Irish in the first half. 

"/ get to play
But the team then resign. fought back, football for Notre They stayed at pulling within Notre Dame for
Dame, and that's
10 points. it all. 
always an honor. " 
"I think [that But this never comeback) says changed their a lot about the Kyle Budinscak attitude. Notre Dame Curry talked
Irish defensive end 
eharacter -we fight until the end. until the game's over with," Curry said. "It was tough, but our leadership stopped up and told the guys to keep their heads up." 
The one thing that was a constant for Notre Dame was its senior leadership. 
Defensive end Kyle Budinscak led the Irish with two sacks against the Beavers, while Curry had four tackles and linebacker Mike Goolsby added three tackles. The three fifth-year seniors have seen the Irish program through its ups and downs since they got to Notre Dame, but they maintained a posi­tive attitude throughout the season. 
"I get to play football for Notre Dame, and that's always an honor," Budinscak said. ''I'm going to miss it so much. All the things that hap­pened, they affeet you, but the No. 1 thing is that you get to play for this University. That's all that really matters." These seniors, just three among many players, includ­ing Jerome Collins (blocked punt) and Greg Pauly (tackle for a loss), are only a few of the Irish that have endured the ups and downs of their careers. During their time, these seniors went 35-25 in five years. They played for Bob Davie, and then saw George O'Leary get hired and 
about how it 
was the last time he could salute the fans of Notre Dame. 
"A little bit of everything [went through my head]," he said. '"Man it went by so fast, I wont be able to salute the fans of Notre Dame again as a player.' It was kinda shock­ing." 
This group of seniors lost to Oregon State for the second time in four years, the last loss coming in the 2001 Fiesta Bowl, 41-9. Then in 2002, they lost 28-6 in the Gator Bowl. This year's loss was the seventh straight loss in a bowl game for Notre Dame. 
However, that didn't take away from this group's lead­ership. 
"Our seniors have been great leaders," Irish sopho­more quarterback Brady Quinn said. "We couldn't ask for anything more out of them ... These leaders really paved the way for us and showed us how to get things done." 
But despite the leadership, these seniors knew this sea­son was a disappointment, finishing just 6-6. 

"Bottom line, we had a lot of missed opportunities, and a lot slipped through our fin­gers," Curry said. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Injuries plague Irish at Insight 
MATTLOZAR Sports Writer 
PHOENIX Starters Mauriee Stovall and Justin Tuck didn't dress for the Insight Bowl. Stovall had been having injury troubles through most of the second half of the season. 
Meanwhile, Tuck was expe­riencing problems with his knee and found out two days before the game he wouldn't be playing. 
"We did everything we eould to get ine ready, that knee just wouldn't respond this week for some reason," Tuck said. "My only regret is that I couldn't get out there. Sometimes things just don't happen the way you want them to." 
Starting left offensive guard Bob Morton also didn't play in the game. Dan Santucci played in his place. 
Wide receiver Matt Shelton suffered a knee injury during Insight Bowl practice in Arizona. However, Shelton suited up and came in for one play in the fourth quarter to qualify for a Notre Dame record. Catching a shovel pass from Brady Quinn allowed Shelton to have the highest per catch single-sea­son average in Notre Dame history at 25.8 yards per cateh. Tony Hunter was the previous record holder with a 25.6 yards per catch average in 1979. 
"We were pretty beat up going into this game," Irish interim head coach Kent Baer said. I thought the rest of those guys stepped up and did a tremendous job." 
Wooden moves up the depth chart 
Coming to Notre Dame as a highly-rated offensive player out of high school, Ambrose Wooden has been lost in a position change to corner­back. 
In the Insight Bowl, Wooden got his chance. 
Seeing Wooden make plays in practice, Baer and the coaching staff decided to move Wooden up the depth chart and the sophomore saw playing time on passing downs. 
"He's done such a great job in practice and he's got great ball skills, plays the deep ball well," Baer said. "He's a great athlete and he's going to be a tremendous player for Notre Dame in the future. I think the young [defensive backs] are going to be tremendous and I think he's one of them. 
Wooden now has a world of confidence going into the off­season and with a new coaching staff arriving. 
"''m definitely more confi­dent now. I'm making plays on the deep ball. I have to go into the offseason," Wooden said. "We're going to have a young secondary next season, and we're just going to have to come together and do what we have to do." 
One player noticeably absent from the defensive backfie~ was Freddie Parish After starting at cornerback against Southern California, Parish didn't start against Oregon State and didn't play on passing downs. Trick plays 
Offensive coordinator Bill Diedrick opened up the play­book early against Oregon State. On Notre Dame's first offensive play from scrim­mage, Diedrick called a half­back pass for freshman Justin Hoskins. The pass intended for Rhema McKnight was overthrown. 
As the Irish opened up their next offensive series, Diedrick called a screen pass that fea­tured a fake reverse before falling incomplete. Later in that same series, Chase Anastasio lost 13 yards on a reverse. Quinn/Dillingham 
Backup quarterback Pat Dillingham saw action in the first quarter after starting quarterback Brady Quinn had to miss two plays after get­ting poked in the eye on the ill-fated Anastasio reverse. 
Dillingham handed off to Darius Walker on the first play and threw an incomplete pass to McKnight on a slip screen on third down. 

Quinn returned to the field for the next Irish series and played the rest of the game. Quick hits 
+Walker broke the fresh­man rushing record in the second quarter and finished the season with 786 yards. 
+Jerome Havens held the record previously with a total of757 yards in 1975. 
+"A lot of outside people try to keep up with that, but I don't keep up with that too much," Walker said. "I knew I was somewhat close and coming out this game, we had the chance to have an extra game. God-willing I broke it." 
+Notre Dame's second quarter touchdown drive tied for the season-high in plays 
(13) and was the longest in time (6 minutes, 53 seconds) on the year. 
+The Bank One Ballpark roof was open for the start of game, but had to be closed early in the first quarter due to rain. Insight Bowl captains 
Notre Dame's team cap­tains for the Insight Bowl were Derek Curry, Mike Goolsby, Ryan Grant and Carlyle Holiday. The team selected those four players were selected as season cap­tains at the team banquet on Dec. 3. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
•
scoring sum_m_ary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total 
Oregon State  14  7  3  14  38  
Notre Dame  0  7  7  7  21  
First quarter  

Oregon State 7, Notre Dame 0 
George Gille1112-yard reception from Derek Anderson with 9:24 remaining (Alexis Serna kick) Drive: 4 plays, 27 yards, 1:18 elapsed 
Oregon State 14, Notre Dame 0 
Joe Newton 11-yard reception from Anderson with 5:41 remaining Drive: 2 plays, 10 yards, 0:48 remaining 
Second quarter 
Oregon State 21, Notre Dame 0 
Dan Haines 11-yard reception from Anderson with 7:49 remaining (Serna kick) Drive: 5 plays, 45 yards, 2:49 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, Oregon State 21 
Anthony Fasano 13-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 0:56 remaining (D.J. Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 13 plays, 84 yards, 6:53 elapsed 
Third quarter Oregon State 24, Notre Dame 7 
Serna 38-yard field goal 
Drive: 6 plays, 32 yards, 1:59 elapsed Notre Dame 14, Oregon State 24 
Darius Walker 5-yard run with 2:40 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 6 plays, 49 yards, 3:34 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Oregon State 31, Notre Dame 14 
Newton 1-yard reception from Anderson with 
12:17 remaining (Serna kick) Drive: 12 plays, 90 yards, 5:23 elapsed 
Notre Dame 21, Oregon State 31 
Rhema McKnight18-yard reception from Quinn with 4:52 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 10 plays, 88 yards, 4:04 elapsed 
Oregon State 38, Notre Dame 21 
Dwight Wright 2-yard run with 3:19 remain­ing Drive: 4 plays, 28 yards, 1:33 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 

return yards 
;.--·. .. . ... . . . . · .. ·_· ····'··· : .. .,:·.: -.·...
~.:l 
time of possession 

J)f» 

33-59 rushes-yards 18-20 18-33-1 com p-att-int 28-45-0 1-7 punt returns-yards 5-77 0-0 fumbles-lost 1-0 2-10 penalties-yards 5-45 17 first downs 19 
passing 
Ouinn 17-29-1 Anderson 28-45-0 

rushing  
Walker  13-43  Wright  9-24  
Grant  14-24  Cole  3-3  
Quinn  4-23  Anderson  5-(6)  

receiving 
Samardzija  5-89  Newton  7-85  
McKnight  4-90  Hass  5-105  
Fasano  1-13  Gillett  4-62  

tackling page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, January 12, 2005 
Zbikowski  7  Bray  10  
Jackson  4  Ellison  8  
Campbell  4  Meeuwsen  6  



THE END OF 
AN ERA 
Orngon Statn's Derek Anderson threw for four touchdowns and 358 yards to 
lead the Bnavers to a 38-:tl win in thn Insight Bowl on Dec. 28. Notre Dame fell b1~hind 21-0 early and couldn't come back in the final game of the Tyrone Willingham era. Brady Quinn threw two touchdowns for Notre Dame, but the Irish running game never really got going. It was Notre Dame's seventh straight bowl loss-they haven't won since the 1993 season. 


TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer 

From top left to bottom left, Irish receiver Jeff Samardzija heads upfield after one of his five receptions on the night. Kyle Budinscak sacks Derek Anderson, one of his two sacks against the Beavers. Irish receiver Rhema McKnight makes a touchdown catch with Oregon State cornerback Aric Williams in his face. Notre Dame tight end Anthony Fasano scores a touchdown on a 13-yard pass from Brady Quinn. Darius Walker cuts through a hole, and Walker scores a touchdown on a five-yard run. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, January 12, 2005 
pagel3 
reinvents the Gatneboy 
endo DS are the new standard in handheld gamesystems 
the advances are more interesting than useful 
Gameboy was released it has been con­tinually updated and refined while remaining backwards compatible. The latest from Nintendo, the Gameboy DS, was recently released. While innovation is still evident within the DS's design, one has to wonder if Nintendo can keep the momentum from previous Gameboys 
roing. 
The DS is by far Nintendo's most ambi­tious project yet. Featuring dual screens, ireless gaming. and backwards compat­ibility, the 
;ameboy DS is by 
'ar the cream of 
Nintendo

he current crop. 
.ike the previous 
DS 

iameboy SP, the 
>S has a built in 
Nintendo 

echargeable bat­
Handheld video 

cry, eliminating 
game system 

he need for AA 
atteries. 
Rating: B+

The rest of the 'eatures just get 
etter, the bottom ·ereen on the DS s touch-sensitive. For most of the new >S games, all one has to do is take out he included stylus to play either the 
arne itself or one of the included mini­rames. This presents many amusing >ptions, as one can use the touch screen to draw, direct, move, shoot, etc. 
The wireless gaming is also impres­sive, to say the least. Included with 
every DS is the demo for "Metroid Prime: Hunters," which is playable immediately out of the box either by oneself or with friends. With every DS a program called "Pictochat" is also included. "Pictochat" allows owners to talk to each other, using the DS, over small distances. All one must do to play the DS with friends is to be in the general vicinity; it is even possi­ble to play the DS on the Internet. 
A major selling point on every new Gameboy has been the backwards com­
patibility. No one wants 
to buy an entirely new 


system and get rid of all the older games they have. It makes it easier for consumers to buy each new Gameboy because the new ones will continue to play the older games that they have already obtained. The DS is backwards compatible up to the Gameboy Advance. 

Previous versions of original Gameboy games will not play on it. Most people won't have a problem with this, but it has the potential to turn others off to the DS. 
However, even with all the praise that the Gameboy DS has received, it is still not perfect. It is the best handheld con­sole out, but that doesn't mean there aren't faults. The gaming library at this point is merely mediocre, which is a common complaint among most recently launched consoles. This doesn't look like it will change till late February. The touch screen has found some decent uses, but nothing to really make it a necessity. 
With some promising new games on 

the horizon, such as the aforementioned "Metroid Prime: Hunters," the DS still has the possibility of becoming a gaming essential. As it stands, it's a solid gaming platform with a nifty gimmick. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at 

One of the most unique features of the Nintendo OS is the revolutionary touch screen that is used to control many of the characters in the OS games. 
4 DS 
. k and mpers, rories. evious , aver­unded to the re bal­ded as 
e fre­


Super Mario 64 OS is one of the best older games that has been formatted for the OS. 
Control-wise, the game is a little more diffi­cult than the original. Since the DS lacks an analog joystick like the Nintendo 64 had, con­trol is limited to either the directional pad or the touch screen. Of the two, the directional 
gina!, pad is the preferred method as the use of the make touch screen can block the view of important ignifi­screen information in some instances. Also, it t orig-feels a little awkward, and many will find it to 
not be the desired method of play throughout d have the game. e four, The storyline and basic gameplay have not 
of the changed much from the original, which is not some necessarily a bad thing. The original is still :e in a one of the best platformers ever created and have now it has received a facelift and become 
g him portable -not necessarily a bad combination. .rwise. 1St dif­
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at rite. mbemende@nd.edu 
Feel the Magic 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Critic 

Did you ever have the urge to take on a stampede of raging bulls to impress a girl? If your answer is yes then your game has arrived. 
Perhaps the game to best utilize the touch screen 
capabilities of the Nintendo DS, "Feel the Magic" consists of a series of mini-games with the ultimate goal of impressing the desired girl. These mini-games range from pushing gold­fish out of a persons stomach to swimming out of the belly of a snake to facing down the previously men­tioned bulls. 
If it's not already obvious, this game is pure craziness. The only game that compares would be "WarioWare Inc." 

Feel the Magic 
Nintendo 

Available for Nintendo OS 
Rating: B 

on the Nintendo Gameboy Advance. Like "WarioWare Inc." this game is filled with highly addictive simple 

• 


Photo courtesy of www.ds.ign.com The main objective of "Feel the Magic" is simply to "get the girl" as smoothly as possible. 
games that can be beaten within a couple of minutes. The games are nonsensical, as is the actual plot. 
For example, a scenario that occurs somewhat early in the game ineludes, after successfully wooing the girl, the hero asking the girl to lunch. However, dur­ing the date a scorpion truck drives by, accidentally releasing a few boxes of the little date-breakers. Instead of alerting the girl and interrupting the date, 
it is the player's job to pick the 

scorpions off her body by using the touch screen while keeping her unaware. If the player misses a scorpion and pokes the girl she scolds you, causing a life to be lost. 
Filled with zany humor, "Feel the Magic" is great fun to play. As stated, this is the first game to fully utilize the Gameboy DS's 
many capabilities. The touch screen is used frequently in the games, usually in the form of guiding some onscreen hero or object. The game also makes use of the built-in microphone. In one game players find themselves literally blowing into the microphone to propel a sailboat that will res­cue a damsel in distress. 
Control-wise, the game is nearly flawless. Very few lives will be lost due to frustrating controls. Using the touch screen is very intuitive and extremely respon­sive, making the game easy to get into. 
However, the greatest asset of "Feel the Magic" can also be its downfall. Because the game consists of nothing but short diversions, there is little replayabili­ty. The game also lacks any real depth. Similar to a sugar rush, the initial experience is quite fun, but it inevitably leaves little to be desired. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 12, 2005 

NCAA BASKETBALL 

Louisville cruises on the road, defeats Southern Miss 107-62 
Wake Forest beats Terps, Okla. St. knocks off Mizzou, Alabama stops Arkansas 
made his first four 3s of the
Associated l'ress game while pushing the Demon IIATTIESBUHG. Miss. -Hick Deacons (14-1, 3-0 Atlantic Pitino hasn't seen Louisville Coast Conference) to an early play bntter in three-plus sea­lead. The junior is playing the sons as its coach. For Southern best basketball of his career, Mississippi, things rarely have with 55 points and 11 3-point­been worse. crs in the past two games. Francisco Gareia had 25 Chris Paul finished with 14 points to lead live Cardinals in points, Eric Williams had 12 double l'igures in No. 19 points and 10 rebounds, Louisville's 107-62 rout of the Jamaal Levy had 11 points and Golden Eagles on Tuesday Vytas Dane !ius finished with 10 night, the worst home loss in rebounds for Wake Forest. sdwol history. Maryland (9-4, 1-2) played Pitino called the opening 20 poorly in its second-straight minutes .-in which the lopsided loss. The Terrapins Cardinals shot 69 percent and were coming off a 36-point loss took a 60-27 lead -"the best at No. 3 North Carolina, and half since l"vn been at started the game with leading Louisville." scorer John Gilchrist on the "You don't have many no-hit­bench for missing an academic ters or perfect games in basket­assignment. ball, but that's as good as we Gilchrist hardly played, sit­could play," Pitino said. ting for almost the entire sec­Ellis Myles had 20 points for ond half and finishing with two the Cardinals (13-3, 2-l points on 1-of-2 shooting. Nik Conference USA), who patiently Caner-Medley led the Terrapins ran their offense to generate with 18 points. easy baskets, then tormented The Deacons played as if the the outmanned Golden Eagles game was nothing more than a on defense. tuneup for Saturday's meeting "We got the third, fourth, fifth with North Carolina. They and sixth options (and) if you opened up firing behind Gray, keep looking to pass, you feed and coach Skip Prosser refused 12) took the lead for good with greet Missouri coach Quin went up 51-48, but Missouri got ofT of that." l'itino said. "And to allow them to back ofT. two free throws from Stephen Snyder and the officials. inside basknts from Marshall we played great defense, which Even when they took a huge Graham midway through the He shook Snyder's hand again Brown and Kleiza to pull back got us on the break." lead into halftime, he screamed second half and held off the before walking off the court as ahead 52-51. Louisville led by as many as "Hun!" at the Deacons as they Tigers (9-6, 1-1), who moved the public address announcer It was the last time the Tigers 41-1 points, shot 57 percent from filed off the court to the locker within a point on three occa­proclaimed his achievement of would lead. the field and was 31-of-33 from room. sions. tying lba, whom Sutton played Alabama 64, Arkansas 61 the free throw linn. Prosser kept the intensity all Terrence Crawford drained for at Oklahoma State and got Earnest Shelton scored 18 Larry O'Bannon had 16 through the second half, stand­two free throws to start a 6-0 his coaching start under. After points and Kennedy Winston points. Taquan Dean scored 13 ing up in disgust after Levy run that gave Oklahoma State more handshakes, he turned had nine of his 13 in the second and Brandon Jenkins added 12 missed a 3 and Mike Jones its largest lead of tbe second around and headed to the lock­half to lead No. 23 Alabama to for Louisville, whieh showed no quickly converted for Maryland half, 69-61 with just under 4 er room like after any other a victory over Arkansas on signs of recent injury struggles with a 3-pointer that cut Wake minutes to play. victory. Tuesday night. in its second straight league Forest's lead to 69-55. Prosser Crawford added a runout, Linas Kleiza scored 24 points Honnie Brewer had 15 points victory since being upset at ordered the Deacons to pick it two-handed jam and Stephen to lead Missouri. He fought off for Arkansas (13-3, 1-2 llouston. up, and Gray responded with Graham finished the surge with endless boos following an early Southeastern Conference), c;areia is averaging 23.3 his sixth 3-pointer. a reverse layup and the technical foul and his tough which got within 63-61, but points over his last six games, Gray scored 16 points in a orange-clad crowd could taste inside play helped cause two Winston made one of two free and the Cardinals won five of stretch of 5:05 of the first half, Sutton's landmark win. Oklahoma State defenders to throws with 9.8 seconds left to thosn by an average of nearly hitting four 3-pointers. Every Sutton improved to 767-293 foul out. give the Crimson Tide (13-3, 2­37 points. lin finished four shy time he let the ball go, it in his career, which included Stephen Graham finished 1) a three-point lead. Eric of his season high set against seemed sure to hit for the sec­stints at Creighton, Arkansas with 13 points for Oklahoma Ferguson missed an open 3­Morehead Statn and tied ond straight game. It was a and Kentucky before he State, which had lost to the pointer with 2 seconds left thfit against Eastern Kentucky. similar stretch to Saturday, returned to his alma mater in Tigers each of the previous two could have tied the game. "We stayed focused. We've when Gray scored 15 points in 1990. seasons, including a 93-92 loss Chuck Davis had 17 points got to stay focused, whether 3 minutes flat. He sat on the bench with his in double overtime last season and nine rebounds for wn've got a big lead at home or Although the Deacons played arms folded and his trademark in Missouri. Alabama, which finished with a on the road," Garcia said. well in the first half, the Terps' scowl on his face when things The teams traded leads five 32-25 advantage on the boards. "When you get a big lead, you poor play was the reason Wake weren't going the Cowboys' times within a frenetic, 2-Darian Townes added 14 can't get laid back or forget Forest rolled to a 47-26 half­way. lie pointed and gestured minute span midway through points for the Hazorbacks, about playing defense. We time lead. to his assistant coaches and the second half after Jason while Jonathan Modica had 11 weren't g~~ing to let that hap­Oklahoma State 78, was always at the right hand of Conley's steal and f'astbreak points and five assists and Olu pen today. Missouri 68 his son, Sean Sutton, who will layup tied it at 43. Famutini added 10 points, eight Wake Forest 81, Maryland 66 Joey Graham scored a sea­take over the Cowboys if ever After Joey Graham hit two in the first half. Justin Gray eontinued his tor­son-high 27 points, John Lucas Eddie decides to retire. free throws to put Oklahoma A 13-4 run gave Arkansas a rid shooting strPak, scoring 25 added 18 and Eddie Sutton tied Sutton walked onto the court State ahead, .Jason Horton hit a 33-24 lead with 4:31 left in the points while making a season­his mnntor Henry Iba for sev­without pomp or circumstance, 3-pointer from the right wing to first half. But the Crimson Tide high six 3-pointers to lead No. enth place on the career victo­taking his seat three spots from give the Tigers a 46-45 lead held the llazorbacks scoreless 4 Wake Forost to a vidory over rins list as No. 6 Oklahoma the end of the Cowboys' bench with 13 minutes to play. for the rest of the half and Maryland on Tuesday night. State beat Missouri on Tuesday and taking a look around a Lucas scored on three Shelton had half the points in a c;ray, who had 31 points in night. sold-out Gallagher-lba Arena straight possessions for 10-0 run that gave Alabama a Saturday's win at Clemson, The Cowboys (12-1, 2-0 Big befor~ walking to midcourt to Oklahoma State as the Cowboys 34-33 lead. 

The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame ollicc, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classilicds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
interested in a lucrative career in Pharmaceutical Sales? www.beapharmarep.com 
FoR SALE 
17630 JUDAY LAKE 3 BEDRM HOME. LAKE PROPERTY.NEAR CAMPUS.BROKER OWNED.272­6306,329-0308 
Pre-owned Dell computers. $100­250. 574-229-3333. 
FoR RENT 
2-6 bedroom homes lor 05-06 Walking distance from ND. MMMRentals.com 532-1408 
MISHAWAKA 2-3 bedroom, 2.5 bath, 1,200 sq. It+ full basement+ 2-car garage, $875/mo. 574-273­9000. 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year ­Available June 1, 2005. 2 Bedrooms -2 Baths. Washer/Dryer, Security System. Fully Furnished. (626)441-1275 or Salvaty@earth­link. net 
House lor rent across from ND. Avail now and for 2005-06 school yr. Call 232-0875. 
2-6 BDRM HOMES. NOW & 2005/6. 272-6306 
CORBY PROPERTIES 5 bedroom home available second semester. Call Eric at 315-3215. 

CORBY PROPERTIES 2-3-4-5 bedroom homes near campus. Furnished, security systems, WID, newer appliances, phone, cable, utilities included. $400/per student. Call Eric at 315-3215. 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BED­ROOM HOMES. GOOD CONDI­TION. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call Sean 532-1895. 
1 bdrm apt 1/2 mile to ND.$550/mo. Laundry incl. Call 283-0325 
Furn.room w/amenities in private home. Near UP Mall. Nice area. www.Daveshouse.com 
3 bdrm north of campus. ample parking, partially furnished, many extras. Call 412-4 78-5192 for the details.  FREELANCE ONLINE TUTORS Instruct 3-12 grd stdnts;lntemet connex reqd; tutor/teach exp. prefrd jobs@ brainfuse.com  
PERSONAL  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! Panama City, Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award Winning Company!  
Spring Break 2005 with STS, America s #1 Student Tour  SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678­6386  
Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com  Watch Notre Dame's own Eric Wooldridge on The Price Is Right January 20.  



OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, January 12, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVlCES page 15 
Men's College Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
1 2 3 
4 
5 6 7 8 
9 
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 
22 
23 24 
25 
team 
Illinois (25) Kansas (4) Wake Forest North Carolina (2) Duke Oklahoma State Syracuse Georgia Tech Texas Kentucky Connecticut Michigan State Cincinatti Washington Mississippi State Arizona 
Boston College 
Pittsburgh Louisville Gonzaga Alabama Geo Washington Iowa West Virginia Oklahoma 

record points 
13,1 695 11"0 653 11~1 608 
;y; 
15~1 597 1H 636 12•2 507 10·2 417 9·2 413 10·2 400 13·1 351 13·2 314 14-2 307 12·3 299 13·0 250 11·2 244 12·3 230 11-3 203 12·3 129 10·2 106 12·3 89 11-1 86 1H 85 
Women's College Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
MLB 

AP Mets' general manager Omar Minaya, left, introduces Carlos Beltran at a Shea Stadium news conference Tuesday. Beltran and the team agreed to a 7 year, $119 million contract. 
Beltran signs with Mets for $119 tnillion 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
9 
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
team 
Duke (27) LSU (11) Baylor (1) Stanford Ohio State 
NOTRE OAME 
Rutgers (1) North Carolina Michigan State Tennessee Texas 
Minnesota Texas Tech Boston College Vanderbilt 
Connecticut 
Marytand Georgia 
UClA 
Purdue 
DePaul 
Iowa 
Kansas State 
Iowa State Arizona Slate 

record points 
15·1 986 13"1 149 
'124 911 12·2 809 144 800 . 
~::~i ................... ,U··· 

·; 12*2 13"2 18·3
·.;.•·····84 
13~2 
1H 11-1 
12~2 
.. 84 10"2 . 12"4 
11;;3 
10·4 11-3 13·2 
10~3 
11-1 11.3 

689 
145iillf 145 90 
82 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -In the end, timing and tenacity played key roles in Carlos Beltran signing with the wannabe New York Mets instead of the perennial champion New York Yankees. 
A no-trade clause in the seven-year, $119 million contract, a recruiting trip to Puerto Rico by team brass, and 31 consecutive days of phone calls didn't hurt, either. 
Beltran was welcomed by his new team Tuesday, ending a whirlwind courtship that began as a long-shot flirtation and evolved into the richest deal in Mets history. Already he was looking ahead, talking about a­recruiting call he already placed to Carlos Delgado. 
For the 27 -year-old cen­ter fielder, the contract was all about commitment. 
"When I was in Kansas City, I was always worried about being traded for five years," he said. "When I was traded to Houston, it was not a good feeling. I didn't want to go through that anymore. I would not sign without a no-trade clause. I was looking for stability. The Mets said 
. they would give me that stability." And they said it over and 
over and over again. 
When general manager Omar Minaya decided the Mets had a shot at Beltran, the team went after him aggressively. 
"Starting at Thanksgiving, they called me 31 straight days," agent Scott Boras said. "They checked in every day, ask­ing where Carlos was at (in his thinking), saying they wanted Carlos. I would tell Carlos every day, The Mets called again.' And again. And again." 
Beltran was impressed. Then came the visit. 
Boras suggested the two sides meet in Miami. Minaya, fresh off his sue­cessful recruiting trip to the Dominican Republic where he charmed pitcher Pedro Martinez with Thanksgiving dinner, said the Mets would travel to San Juan to see Beltran on his home turf. 
"If we are involved, we are involved to win," Minaya said. "I sensed when we got there we would be players, maybe underdogs, But I like being the underdog." 
Beltran said the Mets signing of Martinez impressed him. And he hoped his signing would have a similar effect on first baseman Delgado, another Mets' target. 

Men's Central College Hockey Association 
team 
Michigan Ohio State Nebraska-Omaha Bowling Green Northern Michigan Lake Superior Michigan State Alaska Fairbanks Ferris State Miami NOTRE DAME Western Michigan 
CCHA 
13·1·0 10·3·1 8-7-1 
7-5~l 
7-5·2 6-6·2 6-&·0 5-8·1·· 
4-8~2 
4·8·2 
3-9-4 
4·9-1 

oiJimill 
16.5·1 13·6-3 10'9"1 10·7-3 
&·H 
7•11"2 1H0•1 6-9·1 9·11·2 8•11·3 5-11-5 9-10·1 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Georgia Tech at North Carolina 7 p.m., ESPN Kansas at Iowa State 8 p.m., ESPN 2 
NBA 

Rockets at Mavericks 9 p.m., ESPN 
IN BRIEF 
Marino, Young among 15 
finalists for Han of Fame 
CANTON, Ohio-Dan Marino and Steve Young set dozens of NFL pass­ing records in the 1980s and '90s, some of which Peyton Manning is erasing now. Marino and Young soon might have something else in com­mon: membership in the Pro Football Hall of Fame. 
The two retired quarterbacks are among 15 finalists for the hall announced Tuesday. The class of 2005, which will have from three to six members, will be announced Feb. 5, the day before the Super Bowl in Jacksonville, Fla. 
"It's an honor to get to this stage of the selection process and to be considered along with 14 other deserving candidates," Marino said in a statement released by CBS, where he is a commentator on its NFL pregame show. 
"I've always said that election to the Pro Football Hall of Fame was the greatest individual achievement in the game and it would be one of the highlights of my career to join the sport's greatest players in Canton." 
Marino, who holds many of the NFL's career passing records, and Young, who led San Francisco to the 1995 Super Bowl title, are among four finalists who made the list in their first year of eligibility. Nets' Jefferson out for the year 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -The New Jersey Nets lost leading scorer Richard Jefferson to a season-end­ing wrist injury, the latest blow to the three-time defending Atlantic Division champions who now seem likely to miss the playoffs. 
The team announced Tuesday that Jefferson has a ruptured ligament in his left wrist. Surgery is expected within the next two weeks, and Jefferson would not be ready to play again until the second half of May. 
"This is a tough blow," Nets presi­dent Rod Thorn said. "Richard, in my mind, he's an All-Star player this year. You could depend on him as a guy who has played great for us. He's a guy who plays hurt and cares about his teammates. He's the kind of teammate everyone wants. It's a tough loss." New Yankee Johnson 
apologizes for run-in 
NEW YORK -Randy Johnson's first pitch in pinstripes was an apol­ogy. The Big Unit opened Tuesday's news conference introducing him as a member of the New York Yankees by talking about his confrontation on a Manhattan sidewalk with a televi­sion cameraman on the way to his physical for the team the day before. ''I'd first like to once again reiterate: The situation yesterday, it was unprofessional," Johnson said, "and obviously I feel very foolish today at such a great moment of my career that I would have to stand before you and apologize for my actions. Hopefully it's water under the bridge." 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 12, 2005 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish post 8-2 non-conference record in early season 
Victory over in-state rival Indiana propels Irish to strong play out of the strong Big East Conference 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -The last time Notre Dame beat Indiana in Bloomington-let's just say it hasn't happened in a while. 
"I was listening to the Bee Gees the last time the Irish won here," Irish coach Mike 
Brey said. "I  really  was.  I  
probably still  have  the  8­ 
tracks."  

Chris Thomas scored 13 points and Notre Dame beat Indiana at Assembly llall, 55­45, in the first Irish win in Bloomington sincn a 73-67 victory on Dee. 11, 1973. 
Four Notre Dame players ­Torin Francis (13 points), Dennis Latimore (12), Chris Quinn ( 13) and Thomas -fin­ished in double l'igures. The Irish (4-1) improved to 1-1 on the road after losing by one­point to Michigan at Crisler Arena Saturday. 
"This is a great win for us," Brey said. "We were very dis­appointed in Ann Arbor on Saturday afternoon beeause wn were in that situation like we were this evening, and we eouldn't l'inish it. But I think we've handled il Wf111 since that. ~e ,prepared very busi­ness-like. 
Thomas and Quinn, who shot a combined :{-f'or-24 against Michigan. prepared for Indiana with late-night shooting sessions during the week, DePaul 84, Notre Dame 73 
Sophomore guard Colin Falls scored a earner-high 20 points, but DePaul had four players score in double ligures as tlw Irish ffJII to the Blue Demons for tlwir S(Jcond loss of' thn snason on Dee. 1 I. 
Quemont Gn1er (20 points), Drake Diener (19), Sammy rebounds. The Hed Foxes out­Meija (18) and Jamal Nichols rebounded the Irish, 38-36, 

(12) led DePaul, shooting 60 but Quinn added another 21 percent as a team and closing out of the Notre Dame back­the game with a 15-5 run late court to help secure the win. in the second half. Francis scored 13 points on 
Mike Brey said he expected 5-of-7 shooting and eight DePaul would be the toughest rebounds and Latimore had 10 team of a three-game slate points. Notre Dame outscored that also included Michigan Marist 30-20 inside. and Indiana, but Brey did not Jared Jordan led Marist expect his team to struggle scorers with 17 points and with a team that would go on seven assists, but the Irish to lose its next game against took control of the game in the 
Northwestern.  first  half  and  
Thomas scored 24 points on 9­of-14 shooting,  "I was listening to the Bee Gees the  never were threatened in the second.  
making 4-for-5 from behind the three-point arc. Notre Dame 71,  last time the Irish won here. I really was. I probably  Notre Dame 78, Western Illinois 61 Thomas  
Army 52  still have the  scored 21 points  
Falls scored 16 points and for­ 8-tracks."  and came assist  an and  
ward Latimore  rebound short  
added 15 as Notre Dame sur­vived a 16-point  Mike Brey Irish coach  of a triple-dou­ble as the Irish won their third  
deficit to defeat  straight at the  

Army at home on Dec. 19. Joyce Center Dec. 28. 
Army took a 21-5 lead to He completed an average of begin the game on 8-of-10 17 points, 7. 7 rebounds, and shooting, while Notre Dame 8.3 assists over his past three had made just 2-of-14. But the games. Irish shot 45 percent the rest Notre Dame opened the of the game and Army cooled game on a 12-2 run and never to ;{1 percent, and Notre trailed the entire way, getting Dame out-rebounded Army, a season-high 18 points from 47-28. Latimore. Falls shot 5-for-9 
Four Irish players finished from three-point range and in double figures, including scored 17 points, while Quinn Jordan Cornette (13 points) chipped in 11. and Thomas (12 points). who The Irish led 45-32 at half, shot 4-for-14 while dishing and Western Illinois closed to seven assists. · within 54-46, but Thomas 
Thomas -became Notre kept the Notre Dame at a dis­Dame's career steal leader tance. with his third steal on Sunday, Eulis Baez scored a team­giving him 203 to pass David high 13 points for Western Graves. lie finished the game Illinois, and Will Lewis was the only other Leatherneck in on the winning shot by double figures with 11. Thomas. Notre Dame 56, Samford 44 Franeis and Thomas added 
Hussell Carter ignited the 15 points each for Notre Dame Irish with 11 points off the (9-2, 1-0 Big East). while bench and Thomas scored 14 Francis had 10 rebounds. as Notre Dame moved to 4-1 John Allen scored 19 points over its five-game home stand to lead Seton Hall, and Justin on Dec. 30. Cerasoli added 16 in his first 
Sluggish shooting returned start for the Pirates. Whitney to the Irish offense. Notre had 16 points and 10 Dame made just 3-of-17 shots rebounds. to open the game. But Notre Notre Dame 78, Villanova 72 Dame shot 47 percent the rest Thomas scored 25 points, 
of  the  way,  and  without  
outscoring the Bulldogs 44-13 from midway  "This is a great win for us ... I think  injured leading scorer Curtis Sumpter  
through the first half until mid­way through the second.  we,ve handled it well since [the loss to Michigan/. We  Villanova could not keep up as the Irish improved to 2-0  
Samford neared match­ing the record  prepared very business-like.,,  in Big East play Jan. 8. Randy Faye  
low output by an  scored a career­ 
Irish opponent at the Joyce Center, finishing  Mike Brey Irish coach  high 26 points and six rebounds and  
with  just nine  tied the game at  

points more than the record­70 with 2:53 remaining. But low 35 points Hice had in the Irish went on an 8-2 run 1984. and clinched the game with a 
Quinn and Falls each scored Thomas jumper with 57 sec­nine points on the way to onds remaining. making Notre Dame 8-2 over­Allen Hay dropped 13 points all. for the Wildcats and Mike Notre Dame 66, Seton Hall Nardi had 11, but Quinn and 65 Falls scored 16 each and 
Falls made a 22-foot 3-point Latimore added 12 for Notre jumper with 3.8 seconds Dame. remaining to give Notre Dame Despite playing without a victory on the road in the Sumpter, Villanova (8-2, 1-1) Big East Conference opener out-rebounded Notre Dame in for both schools Jan. 5. its own building, 42-33. 
He made the shot after Kelly The Irish made all 19 of Whitney converted two free their free throws in the con-throws to give Seton Hall a 65-test. 63 lead with 20.2 seconds left. Falls, who led Notre Dame Contact Pat Leonard at with 19 oints, was assisted 

with five steals. Colin Harris led Army with 10 points. 
Notre Dame 88, Marist 73 
The Irish shot 51 percent from the field and scored a 
BUY YOUR TEXTBOOKS 
season-high 88 points on Dee. 22 to win their second consee­utive game and improve to an 
1 ATHALF.COM
8-2 record. Thomas neared triple-dou­bln numbers. finishing with 18 
AND SAVE UP TO 40°/o OFF* THE LIST PRICE. 
points, nine assists and eight 

How great is this? Find great savings on new or used 
Univt•rsity of Notrr Dame Department of Music Prrsrnts 
textbooks you need this semester. Go to half.com and enter the titles or ISBN numbers. That's it!
MUSIC FOR TWO GAMBAS AND ORGAN -------------------------· 
Mary Anne Ballard, viola da gamba Elizabeth MacDonald, viola da gamba 
Save $ 
Craig Cramer, organ 
an additional 

Music by on apurchase of $50 or more. JOHANN SCHENCK 
Redeem this coupon by entering this code: 
NOTREDAME2005

AUGUST KDHNEL 
athalf.com

DIETERICH BUXTEHUDE 
JAN PIETERSZOON SWEELINCK 
'f-----------------------­
8:00p.m. Friday, January 14, 2005 
., 'Claim based on companson or average seling price (exdl.l4mg shipp!lg tlfld l"lai'ldiDg) fOr top tO% of texttlool:s (by unrt volume! sold on Haff.com from ., Augu~ 1st·Septemb1Jr11. 2004 arnll~ted as 'brand new· by the seller, ~ith list price for same title. Teldtlool:s are defined as undergraduate and graduate
Reyes Organ and Choral Hall 
· textbooks and exdude reference books and novels!IHerature 
Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
~-''C!re<ll3itlforll ofi•Jlll!t""i11$50on•m•l fllitCOOlnnly. 00.1 "~ lo<iol""'"'''"only Onlo"~'""'""''"'"''"'''~00t.foo>lll<-JII\•>l>!"Od and""' no~-. !Nt>· 
~.hat!diiii!J.!a~orin&U~aocP..Thi!i:llUj)OI!Cilrl!IC!tx!ct!tmi!\ell'<l'ifhany"l!tetcoupPil.dik:CIIOI.gltlr.e!tlllf:tllt.crprortllliQn Aoyj>~lefl«ll::_wiii'ICllrttli.i~l!l!!r.o~!ll'its.tll6!!~W!u!!'1 Vollwll"' ~i!I>JMO<I.Uo!<\r.~!oU.S. """'ts 1811''""1'11' oro<ter. Prrnmllo" "'*"''CllOllgewit.., -..Offl!f•>lli"-'"'Mol:h !UOOio; !1 !919 <ST
General admission $10; faculty /staff $8; seniors $6; students $3 phone 574-631-2800 for tickel~ 


Wednesday, January 12, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NO WoMEN's BASKETBALL 
No.6 Irish suffer loss to Villanova, fall to 13-2 
Wildcats snap six-game winning streak as Irish post a 5-1 record during the holiday break, going 2-1 in Big East 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's six-game win­ning streak was snapped Saturday when the No. 6/7 Irish fell at Villanova 59-54 for their first loss in the Big East. 
Notre Dame (13-2, 2-1 Big East) turned the ball over 20 times and the Wildcats capital­ized, scoring 19 points off of turnovers. 
Jaekie Adamshick led Villanova (9-4, 2-0 Big East) with 25 points and Kate Dessart-Mager added 14, all in the second half. Dessart-Mager hit a turnaround jumper for a 51-49 lead with 1:39 lead. The Wildcats then hit their free throws down the stretch to seal the win. 
Notre Dame was led by Jacqueline Batteast's 22 points and Teresa Borton's 17 points. The Irish shot 44 percent from the field. but it wasn't enough as Villanova knocked off Notre Dame for the fourth time in the last six games between the two teams. 
Notre Dame 65, Dayton 39 
The Irish started off the holi­day break on the right foot, defeating the Flyers Dec. 9 in Dayton. 
It was a day for the Irish freshmen as Charel Allen had 
Breona Gray added 12 points and two steals.  "Batteast, what can you say about her?  assists, and Gray added 11 points for Notre Dame.  
Batteast was held to just seven points, but the Irish defense  She is an All-American for a reason, she stepped  Notre Dame 50, Marquette 4 7 Irish forward Jacqueline  
stepped up, forc­ing 26 turnovers.  up and took the big shot and made many  Batteast had 27 points, but the three most  
"We did good  key plays for her  important ones  
things defensive­ly," Dayton  team today.,,  eame at the end of the game as  
coach Jim Jabir told the  Terri Michell  she hit the game­winning 3-point­ 
Associated  Marquette coach  er  to  put away  
Press. "We just  Marquette Dec.  
needed to do  a  19 in Milwaukee.  

better job on the offensive end It was Notre Dame's only and take care of the basket­three-point field goal of the ball." game, but it was the biggest Notre Dame 72, Washington shot of the game. 58 "Batteast, what can you say 
Crystal Erwin scored 24 about her?" Marquette coach points on 9-for-9 shooting Terri Mitchell told the against the Huskies at the Associated Press. "She is an Joyee Center to lead the Irish All-American for a reason, she Dec. 11. stepped up and took the big 
Batteast added 1 7 points and shot and made many key plays 10 rebounds in a game that for her team today." 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 

~UNIVERSITY OF r~n

§@
WNOTREDAME 
! = = -\ 
Neither team shot well for the game, with the Irish hitting 
34.8 percent and the Eagles hitting 28.6 percent from the field. 
However, Notre Dame forced 19 turnovers, including seven Duffy steals, and that was enough for the win. Notre Dame 73, Northern Illinois 49 
Batteast had 
and the Huskies shot just 23.6 percent from the floor as the Irish opened the game with a 12-0 run. 
The Irish led just 36-26 at halftime, but they blew the game open when they started the second half with a 20-9 run and never looked back. Notre Dame 54, Seton Hall 33 
Seton Hall shot just 22 per­cent from the field and Batteast had 18 points as the Irish snapped the Pirates' six­game winning streak, and earned their first Big East win at the Joyce Center Jan 2. 
Continuing a season trend, the Irish dominated in the paint, outscoring the Pirates 26-6. Notre Dame also forced 24 turnovers, converting them into 20 Irish points. 
Megan Duffy also finished in double figures with 10 points. Notre Dame 75, Syracuse 58 
A trio of 17­point perform­

14 points and Melissa D'Amico added 12 points. 
"Charel had a great game," Irish coach Muffett McGraw told the Associated Press. "We've been trying to get her to shoot more. In the last three games, she's only had two or four points. So she stepped up tonight." 
Sophomore 
was all Notre Dame. The Irish opened the game hitting their first five shots and dominated the Huskies down low. 
Notre Dame shot 60 percent from the field, while outscoring Washington 42-22 in the pain and outrebounding the Huskies 38-28. 
Point guard Megan Duffy had 
a career-high 10 
"We did good things 
21 points and ances was plenty Tulyah Gaines defensively. We just to lead the Irish added 12 as the over the Orange,
needed to do a better 
Irish fought but it didn't
job on the offensive 
their way over leave coach the Huskies Dec. end and take care of Muffet McGraw 30 in DeKalb, Ill. the basketball.,, happy Jan. 5 
Notre Dame Megan Duffy, outscored Teresa Borton Northern Illinois Jim Jabir and Breona Gray 28-8 in the paint Dayton coach each scored 17, 
Borton on 6-for­
7 shooting, but McGraw thought the team had a letdown. 
"We've been ranked in the top-25 for some time now," McGraw told the Associated Press. "We've really held our poise and played well. I think that tonight was the first time we had a letdown." 
With the loss, Syracuse fell to 0-13 against Notre Dame in Big East play. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Volunteer Opportunities 
South Bend Reads This new effort to promote youth literacy is in dire need of volunteers willing to read with young children for one ryour per week. Amy Bruno from the South Bend Community School's corporation (SBCSC) can be contacted for more information through e-mail at abruno@sbcsc. k 12.in.us or by phone at 283­8181. 
On-Campus Tutors Needed 
If interested in tutoring for about 
one hour per week at an on­
campus location, call Felipe at 1­
7847 or email to cscvols@nd.edu. 
Tutoring for Adults Madison Center Residential Home is looking for volunteers to tutor their clients, ages 30­70, who have chronic mental illnesses. Please contact Laurie Voland at 289-4865 if interested. 
Stem Cell Research 
Myths 
Fr. Tad Pacholczych, a distin­guished neuroscientist and bio­ethicist at the National Catholic Bioethics Center, will be speak­ing on stem cell research. 
When: Thursday, January 13 at 7pm Where: I 02 DeBartolo. 

Social Concerns Festival held Jan. 19 
More than 40 local service agencies and social action groups will be on hand to talk with students directly about the many opportuni­ties available to get involved in the South Bend community. Drop in anytime to learn how local service and social actions can make an indelible mark on your life. 
When: Wednesday, January 19 from 7:00 to 9:00 pm Where: Center for Social Concerns 
Mass for Tsunami Victims 
Mass will be offered for the dead and suffering and all those assist­ing in bringing aid to the region. 
Collections will be taken at all Masses on Jan. 16 (Sunday), both in the Basilica and residence hall chapels. Visit CSC website for a listing of international relief organizations accepting contributions to tsunami relief aid. Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, offered a prayer for the tsunami victims. 
When: Thursday, January 13, 5:15pm 
Where: Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Martin Luther King Workshop, Lecture 
Diane Nash, Civil Rights strategist and OrganizerWorkshop: Char­ismatic Leadership Has Never Freed Us. Limited seating; email Tracy Wickham if interested in participating. 
When: Monday, January 17, I :30 to 3:00pm Where: College Football Hall of Fame 
Will Nonviolence Work in the 21st Century? 
Co-sponsored by the Martin Luther King Foundation of St. Joseph County, Center for Peace and Nonviolence, and the Center for Social Concerns (University of Notre Dame). 
When: Monday, January 17, 7:00pm Where: Bendix Theatre at the Century Center, South Bend 
Registration for Spring Break Seminars Closes January 13 
Social Concerns Seminars are one-credit experiential and service-learning opportunities built around national and inter­national immersion experiences. Immersion dates: March 5-12 (spring break). 
Apply online at http:/ Icenterforsocialconcerns.nd.edu/ academic/application.shrml 
Appalachia Seminar. (Theo 361) Students explore social, po­litical, religious and environmental issues and serve in a variety ofcontexts in the Appalachia region. 
Children and Poverty Seminar (Psy 310A/CSC 358). Held in New York City, this seminar focuses on concerns that affect the youth ofour nation, including poverty and violence, and examines efforts to foster positive youth development. 
L'Arche Seminar (Theo 357/Psy 310B) centers around travel to a CArche community in Toronto, Canada, to share commu­nity life with people with developmental challenges. 
Washington, D.C. Seminar (Theo 363/POLS333W) examines the current state ofeducation including No Child Left Behind Act, the charter school movement and the role of Catholic education. 
Migrant.Experiences Seminar (Theo 356) offers a unique immersion into the lives of migrant farm workers in Florida during the spring harvest. 
Holy Cross Mission in Hispanic Ministry Seminar (Theo368E) gives participants the opportunity to experience the Church's option for the poor through an immersion into the spirituality, culture, and economy of the rural, southern California valley community of Coachella. 
Mexico Seminar Information Session 
Applications available at the CSC or download at centerforsocialconcerns.nd.edu. Applications due January 17 
When: Thursday, January 13 at 7:00pm 
Where: Center for Social Concerns 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 12, 2005 
ND SWIMMING 
Irish men battle the elements in Ireland competition 
Szuimnzer and divers, including two from women's team, travel to Ireland for competition canceled due to weather 
and the pool will not reopen
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
again for swimming events
and ERIC RETTER 
until latl~ February.
Sports Writt·rs 
No one was injured because tlw vnntw was rlosnd for New Al'l1H a stPllar fall cam­Year's Day. 0 n short no tiCI). paign, it took thP f'orcns of' thP teams wnrn unable to 

SOFIA BALLONfThe Observer 
A member of the women's div­ing team competes in the Dennis Stark Relays, held at Notre Dame on Oct. 1. 
as a eomplde team. 
Frnshman Laura !lings and sop homo rn Tyn o Fe hely did not go to Ireland beqwse of injurins sustained during tlw season, 
Additionally, junior Sam­antha Hannri wi II bn away from eompntition this semes­ter as slw will bn spending the upcoming months study­ing abroad in Puebla, Mexico. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at 
rgottumu@nd.edu and Eric 
Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

natur·n to kPnp swimming and diving tnam f'rorn cornpding during wintPr hrnak. Thn lll«'l~t bPtWPIHI No. 21 Notr n J) amP ((l­11 and tl11• Irish National Tnam. srhndulPd to takP placn Jan. 
X. was cancnllnd following dam­ago eausPd by a tornado the wonk hnf'orn. 
TIt () to r 11 ad o torn orr a por­
thP men's reschedule the ment. 
"We were able to make the hest ofit and that was due to the tNmder.fid people at the University of Umerick and also the people at the Kilmurry l.odge where we stayed." 
Tim Welsh Irish men's coach 
Unfazed, the Irish were still able to find a training sitn at tlw University 
o f L i 1111) r i c k 's University Arena and the National 50­meter pool. llere the team was able to make tho most of their annual winter training itnd competi­tion trip. 
"We wore 
t i 0 II 0 f' t lw r 0 0 f 0 f t h 0 able to make the bnst of it N a tiona I Aquatic Cn n tn) in and that was dun to the won­
f) ubI in. Indand. tlw s eh n d­derful people at tho u In d sitn 0 r tlw ('. 0 II t('st. 0 II University of Limerick and Jan. I. Thn damagP is esti­also the people at the rnatPd at wPII ovpr $I ri1illion Kifmurry Lodgfl whnrn we 

David Moisan strokes the length of the pool at the Dennis Stark Relays on Oct. 1.. The men are 6-1. this year and ranked No. 21. In the latest poll. 

stayed," head coach Tim Welsh said. "Both groups of people went out of' their way to help us out. The training part wont quite well for swimming, and diving got better each day and were able to find a one meter 
board to train on tlw last f'nw days.·· 
Amidst a fair­ly relaxed atmosphere, thn team f'ocusPd on their training. The trip provnd to bl' a wnl­come respite from the hedic schedules of training during the school ynar. 
"Athletically speaking. the intensity and the commit­

ment to hard training wore outstanding," Welsh said. "Amidst all of' the distrac­tions, the team did a great job adjusting to the many, many changes we had to put into our initial plan. The spirit. the hospitality and the f'riendliness of the Irish peo­ple was just phenomenal. It is a beautiful country." 
Although tho Irish have not had a meet in over a month. therfl is still plenty of train­ing ahead as Notre Dame prepares for the four meets of the spring semester and the Big East Championships in the middle of February. 
"We've talked all year about staying focused on how we do at the Big East Championships," Welsh said. "We have this w1wk without a meet and then we havn four meets in the next three weeks. So those will bn our 

"We've talked all year about staying focused on how we do at the Big East Championships ... Obviously we need to keep gettin gfaster. We're very optimistic right now and excited to start the second ha(l our season. " 
Tim Welsh Irish men's coach 
last tune-up meets. Obviously we JHWd to keep getting faster. We're very opti­mistic right now and nxcitnd to start the second half of our sea­son." 
As they kick ofT the start of tlw s p r i n g semester's events, the Irish l'acn a stilT chal­lenge next week against No. 15 Northwestnrn. In thoir final 
home meet of the season, thn Irish will face their third nationally-ranked opponent this year. Tlw two teams will take to the pool on Saturday. Jan. 22 at 2 p.m. in tho Roll's Aquati1~ Center. 
Two membPrs of the women's diving tnam, snnior Meghan Perry-Eaton and freshman Tara llyer joined the men in Ireland to train with diving coach Caiming Xie. 
Originally, all five divers were scheduled to make the trip, but due to injury and travel conf'licts the female divers were unable to travel 


Wednesday, January 12, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
HocKEY 
Irish compile 2-3-1 record on ice during holiday 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 
Going into the 2005 part of the schedule, Notre Dame has a simple new year's resolu­tion -score more goals. 
The Irish went 2-3-1 during the winter break. with victo­ries over Hensselaer Polytechnic Institute and Michigan State. Notre Dame (5-11-5, 3-9-4 in the CCHA) continued to have difficu tty lighting the lamp, scoring just 10 goals in the six games. 
"We've had five goals in our last four games and that's simply not enough," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. ''I've seen these kids score before, both here and at the lower levels, so we know we can do it. 
"We have to get some pucks to the net, it's as simple as that." 
The Irish faced Lake Superior State on the road in Sault Ste. Marie, Mich., this weekend, with Notre Dame tying 1-1 Friday and losing a 2-1 overtime nailbiter Saturday. 
Lake Superior State goalie Jake Jakaitis was nearly unbeatable in the series, making 73 saves during the weekend. 
Friday night, Notre Dame's Noah Babin scored at 5:23 of the third period to erase an early 1-0 deficit and help the Irish to a much-needed con­ference point. 
Irish goalie Morgan Cey matched Jakaitis save-for­save, with the Notre Dame senior making 25 stops on the night while the Laker goalie made 32 saves. 
Bo Cheesman scored the only goal of the game for Lake Superior State, beating Cey at 7:24 of the first period. 
Saturday, Notre Dame led nearly the entire game before Matt Restoule beat Cey at 
19:32 of the third period. 
Jeff Rainville then scored in the overtime period to send the Irish to the heartbreaking defeat. 
"That was probably as diffi­cult a loss as we've had this year," Poulin said. "But, you also can't make the margin for error that narrow, either. It was disappointing because Morgan [Cey I really played great; their first goal came on a deflected shot because that was the only way they were going to beat him Saturday night." 
Chris Trick scored for the Irish at 16:55 of the second period, but it would be the only goal that Notre Dame would get past Jakaitis, who made 41 saves. 
Cey made 29 saves in the defeat, the first loss of his career against Lake Superior State. 

AUDITIONS!! 
THE LARAMIE PROJECT 
by Moises Kaufman 
& 

ARCADIA 
by Tom Stoppard 
Thursday, January 13, 7:00PM Friday, January 14, 7:00PM 
Callbacks: Saturday, January 15. 11 :OOAM 
LOCATIONS: 
THE LARAMIE PROJECT Auditions in Philbin Studio Theatre Callbacks in Sound Stage 
ARCADIA Auditions in the Sound Stage Callbacks in Philbin Studio Theatre 
Sl(jN UP J<'OR AN AUDITION TIME IN THE FTT OFFICE, Room 230, Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, 631-7054 

Poulin talked about his team's outlook for the second half of the season, with the Irish currently tied for ninth place in the 12-team CCIIA. 
"We want to feel good again as a team," he said. "We want to play better than we've played so far this year. Our defense has been great for us, and has given us a chance to win nearly every night. 
"We need to score some goals on offense and get back in the mindset of winning." 
In other games over the break: 
Notre Dame 2, RPI 1 

Irish forward Tim Wallace scored at 9:09 of the third period to help Notre Dame to a 2-1 victory over the Engineers on Jan. 2. 
The Irish took an early lead on T.J. Jindra's even strength goal at 1:49 of the second period. 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute's Jake Luthi then tied the game on a power play at 10:20 of the second period. 
Morgan Cey made 16 saves to pick up the win for the Irish, while RPI goalie Jordan Alford made 32 saves in a los­ing effort. RPI 3, Notre Dame 1 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute forward Victor Periera broke a 1-1 tie just 
1:49 into the third period and his teammate Kirk McDonald scored an empty net tally to help the Engineers to a 3-1 victory over Notre Dame on Jan. 1 at the Joyce Center. 
Josh Sciba scored the lone Irish goal on HPJ's Alford, who made 30 saves in the Engineers' win. 
Michigan State 4, Notre Dame 1 

Spartan forward Ash Goldie's hat trick sparked Michigan State to a 4-1 victo-ry over the Irish at Munn Ice Michigan State's Colton Arena in East Lans~ng, Mich., Fretter scored the first goal on Dec. 11. of the game at 11:29 of the 

Notre Dame jumped out to a first period, with Mike Walsh 1-0 lead on Sciba's power tying the game for the Irish at play goal just 42 seconds into 18:57 of the same frame. the second period. Drew Miller scored for the 
Irish goalie David Brown Spartans in the second, but made 36 saves in the loss, the Irish pulled their goalie while Dominic Vicari stopped and Wes O'Neill scored at 20 Irish shots. 18:41 of the third period to Notre Dame 3, Michigan send the game into overtime. State 2 (OT) Vicari made 43 saves in the 
Irish forward Matt Amado's losing effort, and Brown goal from the left face-off cir­made 25 saves to pick up the cle with 2:28 left in overtime win for the Irish. helped Notre Dame earn a 3­2 victory over the Spartans at Contact Justin Schuver at the Joyce Center on Dec. 10. jschuver@nd.edu 

for 1/22 vs. Wisconsin in Chicago and/or 2/18 vs. Michigan in Fort Wayne! FREE FOOD -FREE TICKETS TO THE GAME -FREE TRANSPORTATION You can be part of the Irish Hockey Travel Band! For more information, please contact ND Sports Marketing and Promotions at 1-8393. 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, January 12, 2005 
Orange 
continued from page 24 
co-captain in games against top competition. 
"lin's been shooting it so wnll too. lin was having to handle a lot with the zone pushed out," Brey said. "lin's got to shoot them. We are going to live or die with him taking those shots. We died tonight." 
With the Irish holding that six-point lead, a tip-in by Billy Edelin with 7:39 left was the first of seven straight shots made by Syracuse. The high­light of that run came on an allny-oop from Ednlin to Hakim Warriek to put the Orange up 63-57. one of three dunks by Warrick on the night. 
Syracusn's poor fnw-throw shooting (5-for-16 in thn sec­ond halfl gave the Irish a chance to make a late run. A layup from Torin Francis got it to (J6-61 with l :39 left and the Irish forced the Orange into a long 3-pointnr with the shot dock winding down in their next possession. 
But the ball was in the hands of the one player the Irish didn't want to sen taking that shot-(;erry McNamara. 
"(;erry wasn't shooting the ball like he has been," Syracuse coarh Jim Boelwim said. "Whnn he went to take that last shot, I knew he was going to make it. That was the toughest 01111 of the night, but he makes big shots in big games, and he has since he's be1m with us. I don't think thorn's anybody bnlter at doing that." 
Francis led the Irish with 15 points and nine rebounds. McNamara scored a team-
Huskies 
continued from page 24 
Joyce Center last season, it was ranked No. 4 in the nation. But the Irish. led by Jacqueline Batteast, shoeked the Huskies with a 66-51 upset that sparked Notre Dame's season. 
This season the roles are reversnd. The Irish have been the dominant team, losing just twice in 15 games. On Sunday, Notre Dame (13-2, 2-1) was tied with Villanova at 49-49 late in the game bdore tho Wildcats pulled away for the upsnt lwhind .laekie Adamshiek's 25 points. The win snapped an Irish six-ganw winning streak and droppnd the tnam from lirst-place in thn Big East stand­ings. 
Batteast. who averages 19 points and snvnn rebounds per eontost, has lnd Notre Dame along with guard Megan Dully. Dully has added 11.5 points and 
4.7 assists per game. Notre Dame seems to get major con­tributions l'rorn a difl'erent play­er 111~arly ev«~ry ganw this sea­son. Crystal Erwin, Tnresa Borton, Courtney LaVere. Tulyah Cai1ws, Melissa 1>'/\mico and Charnl /\lien have all made a significant impact on the tmun 's suecess. 
Without Taurasi, guard/for­ward Barbara Turnnr loads Conrwctieut with 13.4 points per ganw. Forward /\nn Strotlwr adds 12 poinL<; for the lluskins, who have won the last thrne national dmmpionships. 
While Conrwctieut has strug­gled more than past seasons, tlwy've done so against some still' wmpetition. The Huskins' losses include Tennessen, high 22 points for the Orange, but it took 21 shots. Josh Pace got 16 on 8-for-11 shooting. Warrick, battling second-half foul trouble, was held to a sea­son-low 12 points. 

The Irish came out firing taking 11 3-pointers in the first 9:16, making four. Towards the end of the half, and especially in the second half, Syraeuse extended its patented 2-3 zone further from the basket and wider on the perimet!~r to keep the Irish guards out of shooting range. 
The long-range shooting enabled the Irish to build a 19-17 advantage in front of the energetic home crowd. Extending that lead to 26-21 forced Syracuse to call a time­out and attempt to stop the momentum. 
The Orange dosed the half with a 17-8 stretch to go into the loeker room up 38-34. 
NOTRE DAME 61, SYRACUSE 70 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (10-3, 2-1) Frands 5-9 5-ll 15, Latimore 2-5 0-0 4, Thomas 1-14 2-2 5, !)uinn 4-9 2·2 13, Falls 3-9 5-5 14, Cornette 1-2 0-0 3, C:artnr 3-4 0-1 7. 
SYRACUSE (16-1, 3-0) Warriek 5-9 2-10 12, Forth 2-4 1-2 5, McNamara 7-21 4-4 22, Paw 8-11 0-2 
16, McCroskny 1-3 0-2 2, Ednlin 2-3 0-0 
4, Hohnrl~ 3-5 :i-4 9.  
1st  2nd 'I!Jtal  
NOTHE DAME  34  27  61  
Syracuse  :i8  :i2  70  

:!-point goals: Notre Dame 9-30 ((}uinn 3-7, Falls 3-'). Cartnr 1-1, Cornnttc 1-2, Thomas 1-11) Syracusn 4-15 (McNamara 4-15). Fouled nul: None. 1\l•bnunds: Notre Dame 34 (Francis 9), Syracusn 36 (Forth II). Assists: Notre Dame 16 (Thomas 8), Syracuse 16 (McNamara, Lidelin 5). Total fouls: Notrn Danw 20, Syracuse 14. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
Michigan State, Arizona State and North Carolina -all teams that were highly-ranked when they beat Connecticut. 
Notre Dame faees arguably its toughest stretch of the regular season, battling Connecticut twice and Purdue and Rutgers once in the next six games. The Scarlet Knights are coming off two wins against top-5 oppo­nents, including a victory over No. 1 Louisiana State. 
The Connecticut game tips at 8 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Loss 

continued from page 24 
Notre Dame was up eight points with 14 minutes left, and relinquishing such a sizeable lead at home cannot please players or coaches. But in the grand scheme of things, Monday's loss may not be as hard a blow as some people may think. 
Winning Monday would have made Notre Dame 3-0 in the Bfg East and given it a quality win over a top ten team. Winning would have made a statement before a national television audi­ence. But even after the loss, the Irish are a solid 2-1 in eonference play. 
In an immediate sense, this loss to Syracuse is difficult to swallow, since Notre Dame did not hold a lnad and eommitted unforced errors to allow its opponent baek into the game. But this team also would much rather lose to a t.op ten team at this point in the sea­son than lay an egg against a lower-caliber eonference oppo­nent like Seton Hall. 
In contrast to the barrage of turnovers against the Syracuse zone, the Irish showed late-game poise previously in wins against the Pirates on Jan. 5 and against Villanova three days later. Notre Dame was not favored to beat Syracuse, and for a good part of Monday's game the Orange appeared rattled and 
out of rhythm. 
In the first half, the Syracuse offense often looked as stalled and unorganized ac; Notre Dame's had in the early season. Syracuse point guard Gerry McNamara, who averaged 11 shots per game entering Monday's eontest, took 12 shots in the first half alone, and Notre Dame even succeeded in getting star forward llakim 
Warrick into foul trouble in the second half. 
The Irish played more physical than normal, and their defense was above average for three­quarters of the game. The Orange, though, were simply the better team. 
"The best team in the league is 3-0," Irish coach Mike Brey said. 'They're the best team in the league right now." 
Syracuse is currently the class of the Big East. Though Notre Dame outplayed the Orange at various points throughout the game Monday, McNamara, Josh Pace and Billy Edelin created turnovers late in the second half and outplayed the Irish back­court. 
But the Irish will have plenty of opportunities to prove them­selves. The eonference slate has dates with St. John's, West Virginia, Georgetown and Villanova lined up before a mur­derer's row of Conneetieut, Syracuse, Boston College and Pitt approaehes. 
In addition, ten of their 14 remaining rogular season games will appear on national television. 
The immodiate ell'ecLc; of allow­ing a 14-0 Syracuse run to spoil hopes of an upset may be unavoidable, and at some point this season Notre Damn will nned to win at least a few of these types of games. 
"We didn't nxecute our gamn plan like we wanted to," Chris Thomas said. "Up six with the ball, that's a pretty promising sit­uation, but I think we had a turnover the next couple of plays and that really deflates you." 
In the end, though, this is one loss Notre Dame can all'ord. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd. edu 

••••.•.•....•••••......•••.•••••••.....•......•••••......•..••••••................•.••.•.........•.•.•••.....•. 


Complete a short On-Line survey and be eligible to Win an ;~ 
SBC family of companies and the University of Notre Dame are interested in providing the best communication services possible to students, and are conducting a research study to better understand your needs and perceptions of the current communication offerings. We would appreciate your pmticipation by responding to a brief online survey. To thank you for your time, you will be asked to submit your name for a drawing for an iPod. Don't miss this opportunity to provide your opinions and a chance to win an iPod. 
Access the following link to complete the survey and submit your name for the drawing. 
•www .rnindwaveresearch.com/nd 
:The survey will be available Jan. 11th through Jan. 131h. Sweepstakes official rules will be posted in the Sorin Conference room located in the Fortune Student Center beginning January ll 1h through January l31h. 
©2005 SBC Knowledge Ventures. L.P. All rights reserved. SBC. and the SBC logo and other producllscrvicc names arc trademarks of SBC Knowledge Ventures. L.P. and/or its affiliates. 

-------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, January 12, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
The Belles countered Tri­State's heavy-substitution style with their own show of depth. Nine Belles played more than 10 minutes, and six scored in double figures. With the win, the Belles improved to 5-4 over­all and 1-2 in league play. The MIAA rewarded Creachbaum for her two impressive pPrform­anees in three nights, naming her tllfl leagtw 's Player of the Week. 
Saint Mary's 66, Siena Heights 61 
Saint Mary's winning ways continued against Sinna lleights on Dee. 27 in the first round of the St. Xavinr Tournament in Chicago. Bridget Lipke ofTered an impressive performance, with 13 points. 11 rebounds and 5 assists. Even with Lipke's dominance, four other Belles scored at least 10 points. Belles head coach Suzanne Bellina rredited the win to the "bal­anced offense." With the win, the Belles improved to 6-4 on the year. St. Xavier 63, Saint Mary's 55 
The next night, the Belles' win streak ended, as shooting woes led to Saint Mary's first loss in nearly four weeks. Creachbaum scored 19 and pulled down 15 rebounds, and the defense played well, but it was not it enough to compensate for the Belles' 22 turnovers, 32 percent field-goal percentage and 1-for­1 0 outing from the 3-point line. Saint Mary's trailed by six at the half' and could not mount a sus­tained comeback in the final 20 minutes. 

Huntington 66, Saint Mary's 62 
After 100 minutes of basket­ball in 48 hours, the Belles let a six-point halftime lead against Huntington slip away in the final game of the St. Xavier Tournament on Dec. 26. 
"It was a winnable game," Coach Bellina said, but "we ran out of gas a little bit." 
Saint Mary's lost the second half 39-29 after staking a 33-27 lead to end the first. In the defeat, Lipke recorded 14 points and 13 rebounds, and Creachbaum scored 16 points. The Belles left the windy city at .500, with a 6-6 record. 
Calvin 56, Saint Mary's 45 
Serious shooting troubles reappeared on Thursday in the Belles first league game since beating Tri-State nearly a month earlier. Playing in front of a home crowd at the Angela Athletic Center, Saint Mary's shot just 26 percent from the field, and mustered only 17 points in the first half. Only Maureen Bush managed to score in double-digits, recording 11 points and 9 rebounds. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

SMC SWIMMING 
Belles travel to Florida for training trip over the winter 
By ANNA FRICANO Sports Writer 
The holidays may have provid­ed a nice break from competition for Saint Mary's athletes, but the swim team took full advantage of the opportunity to escape to warmer wnather and brush up on their skills for the last half of the swimming season. 
The ladies cut short their time with friends and family back home to travel as a team to Islamorada, Fla., just south of Key Largo. Training took place at two different pools, one in each of the two cities, and the team usually swam in both each day. The girls enjoyed sunny, mid­seventy degree weather for the majority of the trip, which was a welcome change from the Midwestern winter. 
The team's twice-a-day prac­tices provided a level of intensity that wa,s able to get everyone back in shape after the winter break. With everyone home for the holidays, the team's regularly rigorous practice schedule had been abandoned for the week or so prior to the trip. 
Coach Gregg PetcofT acknowl­edged that the team may have had a bit of a struggle for the first couple of days on the trip. But he is especially proud of the initiative that the girls took to get into shape quickly. 
"The beginning of the trip is always a little tough on them ... but they get better and better each day", Petcoff said. 
The ladies were in the pool as early as 6 a.m. for their morning work-out. ln addition to the morning and afternoon swims, a third session was added every third day. devoted to weightlift­ing. 
The swimmers spent the majority of their afternoons enjoying the pool at the hotel. The general consensus was to spend plenty of time resting and soaking up the sun in-between work-outs. However, the team did take advantage of a couple of sightseeing opportunities. 
One day, they took a trip to Key West after the morning work­out, where they spent a day walking around, shopping, and enjoying the Florida sunset. They also took a trip to a nearby beach where the ladies could enjoy the ocean water. 
The trip was made possible through a combination of fundraisers, teaching swim les­sons, and a personal contribu­tion made by each member of the team. 
Overall, Petcofl' was extremely pleased with the way the trip turned out. He commented that it was "one of the best winter training trips that we've ever had." 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @nd.edu 



enter for a chance to win a free trip for you and a friend in our vacation sweepstakes. you have priorities. an amazing vacation is one of them. whether it's at the beach, volunteering in the community, or on an adventure, the choice is yours. for official rules, visit www.pwc.com/mypriorityvacation 
1
. No purchase necessary. 

2. 
Must be at least 18 years of age, a student attending this school and legal U.S. resident. 

3. 
Must enter by 2/22/05 at 11:59PM EST. 

4. 
See Official Rules at www.pwc.com/mypriorityvacation 


.-· 
*connectedthinking 
<Cl 2005 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. All rights reserved. "PricewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware limited liability partnership) or, as the context requires, other member firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers lntemational Umited, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. •connectedthinking is a trademarkof PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (US). We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 

~---­

Wednesday, January 12, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
r-------------------------~ur-------------------------~
.5 

EVER.Y TIME WE CUT 
~ 
"TROLL

THANK YOU FOR 
:::>

COSTS, OUR. DISTR. I 13­
MAYBE 
~ 

IT'S AC.CESSOR­
UTOR., WALGETCO, TAKES 
;;

SHOPPING AT
THE GAIN 13Y DEMANDING 
TOO
~ 


LOWER. PRICES. 
PEANUTS 
I I 

'(E5, MAAM, ID LIKE TO 6V~ A C~RISTMAS PRE5ENT FOR AGIRL 
I KNOW .. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 "The eternal teenager"

1 AIa mode 36 Maui memento
5 Street machine 37 H. H.
10 Old late-night (Saki's realhost 
name)14 Subject for a 
38 "Norma 

censor 39 The Golden15 In play 
Flashes, in 16 Not playing college sports 17 Comic Rudner 42 Ben's partner 
44 MapQuest info Kurt 45 Stylists' solutions 
18 Mathematician 
19 Make invalid 46 Floored it
20 The length of a meter is based 48 Card balance 
precisely on the 49 1903 Shaw play amount of light 
56 Supercaffeinatedemitted from this 

cola 23 Mother 
57 Stand out 24 Envelope abbr. 
58 First name in 25 Breakfast 52-Down bowlful 59 Dairy aisle 28 The second purchase Mrs. Trump 60 Calf catcher 31 Coeur d'_, 61 Some Ivy Idaho Leaguers 
u 

1£5 AREO
LATE.
.5

WALGETCO! HAVE 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
1 WAS T~INKING WOULD IT ~ELP IF MAVBE A PAIR I DESCRIBED I-tER? OF GLOVES... 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
STURY ±· 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
tYfl
tBRUPES j 
WHEN HER PUR?E WA? ?NATC.HED,
J [I 
t 
THE TURNPIKE 
www.jumble.com 
OA?I? t?EC.AME A--­

WALLOF 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I I I I ]
L.._J.._......J.-:-;-:::;:;;~~~~.,.,..~su~ggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: 
'l I I I I J' rI I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles: LADLE HOBBY MOSAIC BODILY Answer: Hard to raise after spring planting-HIS BODY 



62 Prince's school 63 Airheaded 64 Adam's third 
DOWN 1 Stop 2 Rogaine user's 
desire 3 _-bitty 4 Dictator player 
of 1940 5 Multiroofed 
structure 6 Stag 7 Middle of 
Caesar's boast aTimes to party 9 Move, in 
Realtor-speak 10 Of vital importance 11 Take as one's 
own 12 Unfamiliar 13 Some election 
map shading 21 Audiophile's concern 22 Baby powder mineral 25 Colombo portrayer 26 Away from the 
wind 27 Jockey's strap 28 Diner freebies 29 Farm-unit 30 "Citizen Kane" 
studio 32 Group of two 33 Airport postings: 
Abbr. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

34 Coin 42 Be in accord 51 Early sixth-classification century date
43 Menu picks 35 A and E, but not 52 Some jazz
45 Sportscast
I, 0 or U 

feature singing 37 N.Y.C. subway 
46 Young salmon 53 Fr. title
overseer 47 Early: Prefix

40 Capital on the 54 Landed Delaware 48 Soprano-bass 
55 Car until 1957
combos, maybe

41 Drink with a straw 50 Hardly Mr. Cool 56 "Mud" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Amanda Peet. 33; Mary J. Blige. 34; Kim Coles, 39; Naomi Judd, 59 
Happy Birthday: This is an ideas year for you. Do your research and make a few sample runs before you go full tilt. Don't let anyone push you into doing too much. too fast. You know your own capabilities and what works best for you. so stick to it and head to victory. Your numbers are II. 14. 18. 27, 39, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): If someone is nice to you, it doesn't mean that he or she is on your side. Watch your back when it comes to work-related matters. 
** 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): As long as you keep moving and talk to people viewing your situation from the outside, you stand to benefit. Someone close to you will cause trouble. ** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Sign up for a course that will help you professionally. A business trip will pay off in terms of the deal you close. You can meet someone interesting. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Money--or the lack of it--may be on your mind. A partnership may be on shaky ground if you don't agree on a budget or how money should be spent. Compromise. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't get into a deep, dark discussion with someone who is nagging or criticizing you. Concentrate on getting ahead professionally and you will make progress. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Do your homework before you make a big purchase. Don't let a fast talker push you into closing a deal you aren't ready to close. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): The coast may appear to be clear, but if you leave your work unattended or in the hands of one of your peers, you can expect to come back to a mess. A love interest is in the picture. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Not the best day to make decisions that will affect your personal life or your home. Asking questions and looking at other possibilities will pay off. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone you least expect will bend over backwards to help you when you are in need. This act of kindness will give you a different perspective on life, love and your future. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): An interesting tum of events will occur with respect to how you earn your living. Times are changing and so are you, so don't settle for a position that is leading nowhere. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be inclined to blurt out how you feel and what you expect from others today. Try not to go overboard, or someone you really care about will turn around and walk away. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be considered Robin Hood today for your generous offerings and quiet way of doing things for others. Less publicity will bring you what you need to further your position. **** 
Birthday Baby: You are sturdy, steadfast and very in tune with what is going on around you. You have a great outlook that will always win you points. You can lead as well as follow. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ________ State _______ Zip________ 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish run out of juice 
Poor shooting down the finish leads to a 70-61 defeat to No. 6 Syracuse at the Joyce Center 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 

After going up 57-51 with 8:17 seconds remaining, the Irish had No. 7 Syracuse on the ropns. A chance to go 3-0 for the first time ever in thn Big East was at their fingertips. 
Then the Orange scored 14 straight points, and the Irish (10-3, 2-1 in the Big East) only scored See Also four points the rest of the 
game and a golden oppor-"Irish post 8-2 non­tunity was lost as Syracuse conference record (16-1, 3-0) won 70-61 
in early season" 
Monday night at the Joyce Ctmtnr. page 16 
"We didn't play good defnnse, that's what it came down to. We didn't do what we're capable of doing on the defen­sive end," Irish senior Chris Thomas said. "We felt good on our shots. They were getting free throw n~bounds -that kind of stuff just kills you. It deflates you." 
After playing exceptionally well against Villanova on Saturday, Thomas shot 1-for-14 on the night and only seored live points to go along with his seven rebounds and eight assists. 
The tough part is that Thomas felt good on his shots, got them in the flow of the game and really wasn't forcing them. Irish coach Mike Brey knows the Irish have to ride their senior 
see ORANGE/page 20 
SMC WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Belles start break strong, fall at end 

By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's wintnr break was one of' streaks. 
It startnd with a three-game win strnak that gave the Bolles a 6-4 record. whkh already tops the team's win total !'rom the 200:1-2004 stmson; it ended with a f'our-gamn losing streak that has taken the steam out the tnam's nnwf(Jund monwntum. 
In thn tnam's most recent game, Saint Mary's li~ll to !lope by the scorn of' 7X-64. 
Thn Flying Dutch wnre only 2­f'or-1 (J from the :~-point linn but had 17 stnals and 17 offensive rnbounds, which opened too many opportunities !'or Saint Mary's to del'nnd. Bridget Lipke shinml in the loss. scoring I1J and grabbing eight rebounds. 

In other games over the break: 
Saint Mary's 69, Anderson 54 
Emily Creachbaum led the Belles against Anderson University on Dee. 9 with 16 points and six rebounds, as Saint Mary's handily defeated the Havens, 69-54 on Dec. 9. Alison Kessler contributed 12 points and two assists, and Bridget Boyee scored 10. The win at home got the Belles back to .500 on the season. 
Saint Mary's 95, Tri-State 83 
Two days later at the Angela Athletic Center, Creaehbaurn led the BPIIes to another double-digit win, scoring 23 points and grab­bing 7 rebounds in just 21 min­utes. 
see BELLES/page 21 
No shame in losing a close game to a highly-ranked conference opponent 
The atmosphere at Monday night's game indicated how big a match-up with Syracuse was. 
Fans spent an unusual amount of time on their feet, even rising to give 6ruard Hussell Carter a standing ovation for his contributions ofT the bench in the first half. Whenever the Irish made a run or took the lead, the Joyce Center crowd noise was deafening. 
But on each occasion when Notre Dame had the momentum and crowd behind it, Syracuse answenld. The Irish could not put the Orange away. Though Syracuse came into the game ranked No. 6 in the nation, Notre Dame players recognized Monday's 70-61 loss was a missed opportunity. 
Chris Quinn took the loss particularly hard. 
"It's disappointing for our team," he said. "It's important, especially on your home court, to get wins in the Big East. A team like Syracuse, they're a great opponent, a top ten team, and with the chance that we had today it's pretty disappointing." 
see LOSS/page 20 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Team gets ready for UConn 
Observer Sports Report 

After dropping a 59-54 Big East road game to Villanova on Sunday, Notre Dame doesn't have much time to !'eel bad l'or il<inlf. 
Connect-See Also 
icut is com­ing to town. "No. 6 Irish suffer The No. 
loss to Villanova,6/7 Irish look to rebound 
fall to 13-2" against a 
page 17 
struggling Ilusky team, whieh lost its last game 68-67 against Tennessee on Saturday. Connecticut has struggled with­out star Diana Taurasi, who graduated f(Jilowing last season. 
Connecticut is just 8-4 during its lirst 12 games. The Huskies lost just live games during the . previous four seasons, thanks in part to the play of Taurasi. 
When Connecticut visited the 
see HUSKIES/page 20 


TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer Notre Dame's Teresa Borton goes up for a layup against Washington on Dec. 11. The Irish face UConn tonight. 

U) HOCKEY 
NO SWIMMING 
SMC SWIMMING 
MLB 
IRISH INSIDER

NCAA MEN'S HOOPS 
li: LLI 
Beltran signs with 
Oregon State 38,

(.') Irish go 2-3-1 over 
Tornado keeps 
Belles enjoy 

Louisville 104, 
Irish from meet 
training tr1p in Ra. 
Notre Dame 21
z the break 

Southern Miss 62 
Mets
::5 
The Irish fell to the

c,:, The icers only score a 
Members of both the 
The Saint Mary's 

The Cardinals had lit-
Former Astro agrees 

total of 10 goals in six 
men's and women's 
swim team spent the 

tle difficulty on the road 
to contract worth $119 
Beavers at the Insight

c c:t 
break in the. South, 

against their conference 
million over seven 
Bowl.
games. 

teams saw their meet 
cancelled after a brutal 
relaxing and training for 

opponent. 
years.

a.. ti 
storm. 
the season. 

U) page 19 
page 18 
page 21 
page 14 
page 15 
Inside 




