

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Ratzinger elected new pope 
N 0 priests, officials Benedict XVI will praise conclave's vote face nzany challenges 
By KATE ANTONACCI By MADDIE HANNA 
Associate News Editor A'sociatr News Editor 
In his f'irst. appnaranr.e as The twws that (inrman popn, Cardinal Josnph Cardinal Josnph Hatzingnr Hatzing1n·. now l'opn Bnnediet had bonn chosnn as thn 265th 
XVI. stnppl'd onto thn balcony of pope hit Notrn l>amo quickly St. l'ntnt•'s Basilica in Homo Tuesday, sparking convnrsa­amidst dnaf-tion and questions soon after mting ehnnrs See Also the trademark whitn smoke and dndarml announcnd thn cardinals' 
himself a "Students 
choice. simpln. hum-hopeful about Notre Damn and Saint bin worknr," a Mary's professors sharnd
future with 
thought their opinions on thn con­lldtond Tuns­Benedict XVI" dave's dor.ision. eommnnting day by oiTi-on tho mystnry and logic
page 6 
eials and bnhind thn choien, as wnll as prinsts at the Church Hatzingnr will Notrn l>anw. face. 
"I know hn's a humble man. I Thnology professor Lawr­know hn's a holy man and a ence Cunningham said man of praynr. I know hn 's very Hatzingnr was "not a sure inldlignnt," said FaliHlr Hichard ehoiee." Warnnr, director of Campus "lie was talked about vnry Ministry. "I think hn's going to much in tho prnss prior to tlw carry out his ministry as Vicar of tinw of the conclave," Christ with gnlat intngrity." Cunningham said, adding that 
Bnnndict XVI, 7X, formnr dnan hn had spokon with faculty at of thn Collngn of Cardinals, was thn University of Lublin, a nlnctnd 265th popn Tuesday. Catholk university in Poland. Hatzing_nr was a vnry close eon­who told him all tho aeadmn­lidant of l'opn John Paul II and ics in Poland thought was onn of tlw most powerful Hatzingnr would bn ehosnn as ligurns in tho Vatican undnr the tho next pope. fornwr po~w. But Cunningham said he 
Univnrsity l'rnsident Fathnr oxpnctnd Batzingnr to be thn 1-:dward Malloy blnssed the "pope-maker" instead of tlw pope, given his substantial 
see POPE/page I 0 see CHURCH/page 8 
Notre Dame community gathers at Basilica to celebrate new pontiff's election 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
Although it was the flnnting latn afternoon sun that shone lumi­nously through thn tower·ing stainPd glm;s windows. a nnw day was just beginning at thn Basilica of tho Sar.t·ed llnart-and across t.lw nnlin• world. 
NotrP l>amn etdnbrated tho sPinction of German Cardinal 
Joseph Hatzinger as the 265th popn of the Catholic Church with a Mass of Thanksgiving Tuesday. Director of Campus Ministry Father Hichard Warner presided ovnr the service held in honor of the 78 ynar-old cardinal, who assumed the papal name Benedict XVI. 
Amid sacred music performed by tho Notro Dame folk and hand­bell choirs, Warner acknowledged a special fooling of nxr.itement 
upon the announcement of the new pontiff. A conclave of 115 cardinals selected Ratzinger after just two days of deliberation. 
"It was wonderful to see the people of Rome and visitors from across the world run into St. Petnr's Square to see the first appnarance of the new pope," Warner said in his homily. "Today, as people of faith, wo look for­ward to the ministry of Pope Benmlict XVI." 
Tens of thousands of worship­pers gathered at the Vatican to hear the oflicial proclamation of the new papacy. Similarly, more than 400 students, faculty and membors of the South Bend com­munity gathered at Sacred Ilcart Basilica to pray for the longevity and success of Benedict XVI. 
"The beginning of a nnw papa­cy is always an exciting timo for the Church," Warner said. "We believe the Holy Spirit not only guided the choice of Pope Bonediet XVI. but will also eontin­un to guide the Chureh in t.hn third millmmium." 
A symbolic rnprnsentation of a nnw ora in Catholie Chureh histo­ry, a largo bouquet of whitn and yellow llownrs endrdnd a photo­~-,rraph of thn Bmwdict XVI in front of the altar. .lust wonks ago, an image of the latn Popo John Paul 
see MASS/page 8 

====---~~~-===============================-======-=~=================================~ ~--~--~ 

Student Union fund distribution differs fron1 2004-05 
Council of Representatives decision rewards SUB additional funds, subtracts $10,000 from President's council 
By MARY KATE MALONE · 
Nt·ws Wrirt·r 
Tlw approval of thn Studon t Union budgnt Monday night by tlw Council of Hnprnsnntativns will allow for nearly $362,000 to bn distributed between vari­ous dubs and organizations for tlw 2005-06 school ynar. 
Tho distribution of those funds, whieh eampus dubs and 
organizations essentially roly on for their nxistencn, is decid­ed by the Financial Management Board -a wing of tho Studnnt Union responsi­ble for alloeating and main­taining studont government linanees. 
Though this year's total amount of available funds was only slightly higher than the previous year's -$361,310 compared to $356,838 -the distribution or those funds was vastly different in ecrtain areas. 
Last year, due to the low attendance rate for a SUB­sponsored <went with David Spade, the ehief programming group for the student body was only allocated $189,360. 
But last night, COR approved a budget that will grant SUB almost $209,000 for the com­ing school year, a significant 
increase from last year's allo­cation. 
"The main reason SUB received more funds is because they had a very, very sueenssful year on a very, very tight budg­et," FMB trnasurer Mike Marshall said. "We felt they deserved to have morn money in their pockets to improve programming even morn." 
However, such a dramatic increase in funding for somn 
organizations will naturally eause budget tightening in other areas. The llall President's Couneil, for exam­pin, sought morn funds for tlw eoming sehool ynar hut was actually given $10.000 lnss than last ynar's allocation. 
"IIPC was tlw most diflkult to alloeatn," Marshall said. "It is difficult to toll rnsidtmc1~ 
see BUDGET/page 6 page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Trashy 
•

lllagazines 
Walk into any female dorm room on campus and you will see a stack of reading material the size of a Hummer. Textbooks you might ask? Not quite. 
Sure, there Megan O'Neilmight by a copy of "Paradise Lost" lying around, but 
Saint Mary's 
there is no doubt 
Editor
what tops the reading list these days: trashy magazines. 
I'm talking about those glossy pub­lications with Jessica Simpson or one of the five Desperate Housewives stars plastered across the front with some glaring question like "Feuding on the set?" blazoned in bold font. 
I pretend not to be caught up in the trashy magazine phenomenon. I never actually buy them myself and roll my eyes at others as they grab them off the racks at the last minute in the grocery store line. 
But I don't hold myself above look­ing at issues that my friends have purchased and leave lying around. It's not like I am (~ontributing to the aggressive behavior of the paparazzi if someone else paid for it, right? 
Really, I don't know why I love to reading magazines like People and In Touch as much as I do. Looking at Britney Spears' pudge that may or may or may not be the first signs of pregnancy (apparently is was) sounds rather disgusting. And do I really care whether Jennifer Lopez's 18th marriage is going to las(more than a year? 
Yet I flip through them, one after the other, with great enthusiasm. I love seeing all the crazy glamorous outfits celebs like Gwyneth Paltrow and Kate Hudson sport to big enter­tainment events or even just walking the streets of Los Angeles. And who doesn't want to compare the size of Paris Hilton's $500 sunglasses to those of Mary-Kate Olsen? 
And purses. Seriously, Louis Vitton doesn't even need to waste money printing a catalogue because every single style is advertised weekly on the arms of women such as Tara Reid in the pages of these publica­tions. 
Trashy magazines pass from hands to hands and dorm to dorm and maybe even state to state. They are good company in airports and on long car rides. You don't go through a trashy magazine like you would your reading assignment for history class. That is,. as fast as you can. 
Instead, you pour over every page, every image, examining every detail of every outfit. You analyze whether that side part, loose curl hair style really works for Demi Moore or not. You and your friends make commen­tary on someone's obvious plastic surgery declaring you yourselves would never go under the knife. 
Trashy magazines get so worn out with use that covers begin to fall off and pictures begin to fade. Yet you hold on to them and to the fantasy they contain, dreaming that some­day you too can attend the Oscars on the arm of Orlando Bloom. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei090 7@saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a prduccion error in the April 18 issue of The Observer, Irish lacrosse player Matt Karweck's name was misspelled. The Observer regrets the error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 20, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF CARDINAL RATZINGER'S ELECTION TO THE PAPACY? 






Silvana Zepeda  Lauren Price  Barbie Sloam  Tommy Forr  Matt Lucci  Gabriel Bustamante  
senior Cavanaugh  senior McGlinn  sophomore Pasquerilla West  sophomore O'Neill  freshman Morrisey  grad student offcampus  
"/was surprised."  "Is it wrong to cry and to be so concerned?"  'Tm in the fan club, yup."  "He's great. They call him the Panzer."  "He looks like Darth Sidious. "  "Being a grad student with no access to media, you just have to have faith  
they've been enlightened by the Holy Spirit."  


IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame Woodwind and Percussion Ensemble will perform today at 7:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall, Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The event is free and opent to the public, but tickets are required and can be acquired at the box office. 
There will be a performance of Tom Stoppard's "Arcadia" today at 7:3 0 in the Decio Mainstage Theatre, Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts. Buy tickets at the box office. 
The softball team will face ofl' against Akron today at 3 p.m. at Ivy Field. 
Writer Blue Balliett will sign copies of his latest book "Chasing Vermeer" Thursday at 4 p.m. in the Hammes' Notre Dame Bookstore. 
CLAIRE KELLEY !The Observer Claire Fadel, managing editor of the yearbook, hands out the 2004-2005 year­book to students In LaFortune Tuesday. 

OFFBEAT 
Firefighters battle blaze burning on own truck 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. ­Providence firefighters spent part of Tuesday morning trying to subdue a stubborn blaze -in their own fire truck. 
Engine 11 was completely burned after a fire started in the engine compartment while the truck was driving in Roger Williams Park. 
The engine's <;rew tried fruitlessly to fight the flames with fire extinguish­ers. They had to call in another truck to put out the fire. 
"This is unusual," Capt. Peter Celini told WPRO-AM. 
WEDNESDAY 


"I've been here a long time, and I've never seen a fire truck fully involved like that." 
One firefighter twisted his ankle and was taken to a hospital, but no other injuries were reported. 
There was no word Tuesday from the fire department on a possible cause. 
Rotting animal parts discovered in high school 
GLEN GARDNER, N.J.­Discovery of a bag full of rotting animal parts hidden in the ceiling above the school lunchroom fo.rced the closing of Voorhees High School on Monday. 
Officials said the school would . remain closed Tuesday to allow workers to sanitize the area and health inspectors to clear the cafeteria to serve food. 
"An unusual odor led to the discovery of decompos­ing animal parts that had been surreptitiously placed in the drop ceiling," Lebanon Township police Patrolman Larry Campbell said. 
The bag was found about 7:30a.m. Monday; students were dismissed at 11:55. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Guillermo Grenier, professor of sociology at Florida International University in Miami, Fla., will give a lecture entitled "Exiles and Ideology: The Creation and Maintenance of the Suban-American Exile ideology -evident from the 2004 Cuba Poll." It will being at 4 p.m. Thursday in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
The Notre Dame Invention Convention will toke place Thursday between 5:30 p.m. and 8;30 in the Giovanini Commons, Mednoza College of Business. The event is cosponored by the Gigot Center for Entrpreneurial Students and the Robinson Community Learning Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 
..1 
<C 
(,) 0 



HIGH 62 HIGH 55 HIGH 62 HIGH 58 HIGH 46 HIGH 57
...I LOW 38 LOW 35 LOW 37 LOW 32 LOW 30 LOW 38 
Atlanta 74 I 62 Boston 70 I 49 Chicago 64 I 48 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 78 I 72 Minneapolis 80 I 62 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 75 I 49 
Wedpcsday, April 20, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Church welcomes new sh~pherd 
German cardinal/ longtime Vatican doctrinist takes name Benedict XVI 
Assodatcd Press 2003. 
After the bells started 

VATICAN CITY ringing, pnopln on the Cardinal .Jos11ph Hatzing11r streets of Home headed of G11rrnany, the Homan from all directions toward Catholie Church's leading Vatican City. Some priests hard-linnr, was nlnctnd and snminarians in eleri­popn Tuosday in the first cal garb were running. conclav11 of the nnw rnii­Nuns pulled up their long IPnnium. lin chosn the skirts and joggnd toward namn B11rwdict XVI and thn square. Drivers 1:allnd himsnll' "a simpln, honked horns and some humhl1~ worker." people closed stores early 
Hatzing•~r. tlw f'irst and joirwd the crowds. (;nrman popn in nmturi11s, Polieo immmliately tried nnwrgnd onto the bakony to direct trallk hut to littl11 of St. Pntnr's Basiliea, nll'neL wlwrp lw wavml to a wild­"I havn, like, butterlliPs ly rhnnring crowd of tm1s in my stomach." said of thousands and gave his Ternsa Madden. 20, of lirst. hlnssing. Ollwr cardi­Steubenville, Ohio, who nals dad in llwir crimson was in tlw square. "I just. rohns 1·.amn out on ot.lwr want to laugh." balconies to watrh him Hatzinger suen1eds a aftPr onP of thn fastnst pope who gairwd extraor­papal ronl'lavns of the dinary popularity over a past cnntury. 2(>-year pont.ilir.atn, histo­
"l>nar hrothnrs and sis­ry's third-longest papar.y. tnrs. af'tnr tlw grnat Popn Millions mourned him .John Paul II. tlw cardinals around tlw world in a havP PlndPd me -a sirn­tribute to his eharisma. pl11, humhln worker in the While .John Paul, a Pole, vinnyard of thn Lord," he was nlected to r.hallengp said al'ler !wing intro­tlw eommunist systnm in durPCI hy Chilnan Cardinal place in nastern l•:urope in .Jorgn Arturo Medina IIJ7H. Benedict fa1~os rww Estivnz. issiws: the. need for dia­
"The fad that the Lord logue with Islam. the divi­can work and act even sions betwenn tlw wealthy with insuf'fieient means north and the poor south consoles me, and above as well as problems with­all I nntrust myself to your in his own ehureh. pray11rs," tho new pope Vatican's doctrinal hard­acceptable to today's stan­diers. Enrolled as a sol­sion. These include the priest said. "I entrust myself to liner. dards. dier at 18, in the last The cardinals took an sex-abuse seandals that your prayers." Benedict XV, .who Ratzinger served John months of the war, he oath of secrecy, forbidding have cost the church mil­
The crowd responded to reigned from 1914 to Paul II since 1981 as head barely finished basic them to divulge how they lions in settlements in the the 265th pope by joyfully 1922, was a moderate fol­of the Congregation for training. voted. Under conclave United States and else­chanting "Benedict! lbwing Pius X. who had the Doctrine of the Faith. "We are certain that he rules, a winner needed where; coping with a Ben11dkt!" implemented a sharp In that position, he has will continue on the path two-thirds support, or 77 chronic shortage of 
Hatzingnr turned 7H on crackdown against doctri­diseiplined church dissi­of reconciliation between votes from the 115 cardi­priests and nuns in the Saturday. llis age dearly nal "modernism." He dents and upheld church Christians and Jews that nal electors. West; and halting the was a faetor among cardi­reigned during World War policy against attempts by John Paul II began," Paul After the smoke stream of people leaving a nals who favored a "tran­I and was credited with liberals for reforms. Spiegel, head of appeared, pilgrims church indifferent to sitional" pope who could settling animosity He had gone into the Germany's main Jewish poured into the square, teachings they no longer skillfully lead the church between traditionalists conclave with the most organization, told The their eyes fixed on the find relevant. as it absorbs John Paul and modernists, and buzz among two dozen Assodated Press in a tele­burgundy-draped balcony. Under John Paul, the ll's legacy, rather than a dreamed of reunion with leading candidates. He phone interview. Pilgrims said the rosary church's eentral authority younger cardinal who Orthodox Christians. had impressed many White smoke poured as they awaited the name grew, often to dismay of eould wind up with anoth­Benedict comes from faithful with his stirring from the chimney atop the of the new pope and bishops and rank-and-lile er long pontificate. the Latin for "blessing" homily at the funeral of Sistine Chapel and the prelates stood on the roof Catholics around the 
The n11w pope is the old­and is one of a number of .John Paul II, who died bells of St. Peter's pealed of the Apostolic Palace, world. PSI. nlndnd since Clcmnnt papal names of holy origin April 2 at age H4. at 6:04 p.m. (12:04 p.m. watching as the crowd Pope John XXIII was 77 
XII. who was chosen in sueh as Clement President Bush called EDT) to announce the nearly doubled in size. when he was elnctnd pope 1730 at 7H but was three ("mercy"), Innocent him a "man of great wis­conclave had produced a Niels Hendrich, 40, of in 195H and vinwnd as a months older than ("hopeful" as well as dom and knowledge." pope. Flag-waving pil­Hamburg, Germany, transitional figure, but he Hatzinger. "innocent") and Pius "We remember well his grims in St. Peter's Square jumped up and down and called the Second Vatican 
Cardinals also had faced ("pious"l. sermon at the pope's chanted: "Viva il Papa!" or shouted, "Habemus Council that revolution­a choiee over whether to The last pope from a funeral in Rome, how his "Long live the pope!" papam!" -Latin for "We ized the church from snek a younger, dynamic German-speaking land words touched our hearts The bells rang after a have a pope!" when the within and opened up its pastor and communicator was Vietor II, bishop of and the hearts of mil­confusing smoke signal smoke first poured from dialogue with non­-pnrhaps from Latin Eichstatt, who reigned lions," Bush said. "We join that Vatican Radio initially the chimney, but he then Catholics. Anwrica or elsnwhcre in from 1055-57. with our fellow citizens suggested was black but gave only three halfheart­Benedict will have to thn dnveloping world On Monday, Hatzinger, and millions around the then declared was too dif­ed claps when he learned decide whether to keep up whcn1 the church is grow­who was the powerful world who pray for con­ficult to call. White smoke who it was. the kind of foreign travtll ing. dean of the College of tinued strength and wis­is used to announce a "I am not happy about that was a hallmark of 
Hatzing11r is the first Cardinals, used his homily dom as His Holiness leads pope's election to the this at all," he said. .John Paul's papacy, with Gnrmanic pope in nearly at the Mass dedicated to the Catholic Church." world. "Ratzinger will put the his 104 pilgrimages 1,000 years. There were electing the next pope to Some have questioned It was one of the fastest brakes on all the progres­abroad. at least three German warn the faithful about whether the new pope elections in the past cen­sive movements in the Meisner, the German popes in tlw II th century. tendencies that he consid­betrayed any pro-Nazi tury: Pope Pius XII was church that I support." cardinal, said Benedict 
Hmwdict XVI decided to ered dangers to the faith: sentiment during his elected in 1939 in three Many others in the will attend the mid­spend thn night at the sects, ideologies like teenage years in Germany ballots over two days, square, however, were August Catholic youth day Vatican hotnl, the Domus Marxism. liberalism, athe­during World War II. while Pope John Paul I joyful -as were those in gathering in Cologne, Sanetan Marthae, and to ism. agnostieism and rela­In his memoirs, he was elected in 1978 in the pope's hometown or Germany. John Paul had dine with the cardinals, tivism -the ideology that wrote of being enrolled in four ballots over two days. Trauns.tein, Germany. A agreed to visit and organ­said Vatiean spokesman there arc no absolute llitler's Nazi youth move­The new pope was elected room full of 13-year-old izers have alrnady spent .Joaquin Navarro-Valls. lie truths. ment against his will after either four or five boys at St. Michael's millions of dollars in was to preside over a "!laving a clear faith, when he was 14 in 1941, ballots over two days. Seminary that Ratzinger preparations. Mass on Wednesday based on the creed of the when membership was "It's only been 24 hours, attended cheered and "With th1~ nnw lloly morning in the Sistinll church, is oflcn labeled compulsory. lie says he surprising how fast he clapped as the news was Father, we can be assured Chapel and will be formal­today as a fundamental­was soon let out because was elected," Vatican announced. or continuity with his ly installed on Sunday at ism," he said, speaking in of his studies for the Radio said. "It's fantastic that it's predecessor and of a pPr­I 0 a.m. (4 a.m. El>Tl. Italian. "Whereas rela­priesthood. Cardinal Joachim Cardinal Hatzinger. I met sonality who will lnad the 
If Hatzingcr was paying tivism, which is letting 'I\vo years later, he was Meisner of Germany told him when he was here church with grnat respon­trihut11 to the last pontiff oneself be tossed and drafted into a Nazi anti­reporters Tuesday night before and I found him sibility before God," said named Benedict, it could 'swept along by every aircraft unit as a helper, a that Benedict was elected really niee," said Lorenz lleiner Koch, the prelate be interpreted as a bid to wind of teaching,' looks common fate for teenage on the fourth ballot -the Grad!, 16, who was con­in eharge of' the Cologne soften his image as the likn the only attitude boys too young to be sol-first of the afternoon ses-firmed by Hatzinger in event. 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Wednesday, April 20, 2005 

"Dear brothers and sisters, after the great Pope John Paul II, the cardinals have elected me -a simple, humble worker in the vineyard ofthe Lord. The fact that the Lord can work and act even with insufficient means consoles me, and above all I entrust myselfto your prayers." 
Pope Benedict XVI 

Catholics scrutinize Ratzinger's history, popularity 

Pope Benedict XVI 
Cardinal Jo~ Patzmger. 78. a r~ro~y t.X.WJ&erWUJVe guar<$M of doctnnal orthock»:y. was chosen the C~ etrurms 2$51tt ~ Tue~y H1!!l took the na~ Senedid XVI, and is tM first Getmtmic pope ainco tho t Hh oontury: M atx:ompliahed pianist he ~ks ~~at lang~ rt~<:lud1rt9l1tditm, Ef9\$h and h:i$ nalive Germ&o 
ApriJ16, 1927-Bom 1962·11-T~ the ~gr~atle(! b' in Mttttti Ml lnrt d~ and th~tqr th!! OootriM of 1M Stw&tia, Germany at GermM schOOls F.aiU<t re®pcrrs!Me fOt 1943 .. Drafted as an aoo l.t'liv1!:tsh!es eflfotcl~ CathOliC 
assts«tnt to a Nali 1962·65-E~n on ~:ty an1i<mrctafl \.!nil vaucan CouMI H Ntw. 6.. 1996-e~ May 1945... ~rted March 24, 1917 \!tee Dean ef the Germat'l atmv he~tJ 1t1 ..,. Appoim~ ~. of Catd!MJ$ U S POW c:a.mp b' AJC~efi~ of Mt.ftleh Nov. 30. 2:002 se•.-et$i weeks aM Ft~Sing -Elected Dean Of me 
Juno 29, 1951 -Jun• 27, 1917 C¢it~ of Cardinals OrdhiMd a ph&i't -CreMed CatdN.I April 1$, 2005 ­
19S3 -Obla~ Nov. 25. 1981 Elected ?a~~ doctotate n theole9Y -Nsmled Prefect o1 XVI 

Associated Press 

VATICAN CITY -Two images of Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger stood in sharp relief during the mourning peri­od for the pope he would eventually succeed. 
With his wispy silver hair blowing in the wind, the German prelate stood before the world's political and spiritu­al leaders at John Paul II's funeral April 8 and offered an eloquent, sensi­tive farewell that moved some to tears. 
Ten days later -just before Ratzinger and 114 other cardinals entered the conclave to select the 265th pontiff -he delivered a sharp­edged homily on strict obedience to church teachings that left liberal Catholics wincing. 
"He could be a wedge rather than a unifier for the church," said the Rev. Thomas Reese, editor of the Jesuit weekly magazine America. 
This was clear in St. Peter's Square moments after the announcement of Ratzinger's election and the name cho­sen by the first Germanic pope in 1,000 years: Benedict XVI. Amid the applause were groans and pockets of stunned silence. 
"It's Ratzinger," French pilgrim Silvie Genthial, 52, barked into her cellular phone before hanging up. 
"We were all hoping for a different pope -a Latin American perhaps ­but not an ultraconservative like this," she said. 
But others hugged and toasted the new pope with red wine. "A clear and true voice of faith," said Maria Piscini, an 80-year-old Italian grandmother, raising a paper cup filled with pinot noir. 
The cardinals who selected him knew it would be received this way. Perhaps no member of the conclave evoked such potent opinions -and has 
stirred more arguments -as the 78­year-old Ratzinger and the role he's held since 1981: head of the powerful Vatican office that oversees doctrine and takes action against dissent. 
"We are moving toward a dictator­ship of relativism which does not rec­ognize anything as for certain and which has as its highest goal one's own ego and one's own desires," he said Monday in a pre-conclave Mass in memory of John PauL The church, he insisted, must defend itself against threats such as "radical individualism" and "vague religious mysticism." 
As prefect of the Congregation of the Doctrine of the Faith, he was the Vatican's iron hand. 
His interventions are a roll call of flashpoints for the church: the 1987 order stripping American theologian the Rev. Charles Curran of the right to teach because he encouraged dissent; crippling Latin Americans supporting the popular "liberation theology" movement for alleged Marxist leanings; coming down hard on efforts to rewrite Scriptures in gender inclusive lan­guage. 
He also shows no flexibility on the church's views on priestly celibacy, contraception and the ban on ordina­tions for women. 
In 1986, he denounced rock music as the "vehicle of anti-religion." In 1988, he dismissed anyone who tried to find "feminist" meanings in the Bible. Last year, he told American bishops that it was allowable to deny Communion to those who support such "manifest grave sin" as abortion and euthanasia. 
He earned unflattering nicknames such as Panzercardinal, God's rottweil­er, and the Grand Inquisitor. Cartoonists emphasized his deep-set eyes and Italians lampooned his pro­nounced German accent. 
"Indeed, it would be hard to find a 

Catholic controversy in the past 20 years that did not somehow involve Joseph Ratzinger," John Allen, a Vatican reporter for the National Catholic Register, wrote six years ago. 
But among conservatives, he rose in stature. An online fan club sings his praises and offers souvenirs with the slogan: "Putting the smackdown on heresy since 1981." 
Even John Paul apparently needed him close by. Several times Ratzinger said he tendered his resignation because of his age, but each time it was rejected by the pope. 
In recent years, he took on issues outside church doctrine. He once called Buddhism a religion for the self-indul­gent. In an interview with the French magazine Le Figaro last year, he sug­gested Turkey's bid to join the European Union conflicted with Europe's Christian roots -a view that could unsettle Vatican attempts to improve relations with Muslims. 
"Turkey has always represented a different continent, in permanent con­trast to Europe," he was quoted as say­ing. 
In a book released last week, "Values in a Time of Upheavals," Ratzinger also called demands for European "multi­culturalism" as a "fleeing from what is one's own." 
"If he continues as pope the way he was as a cardinal, I think we will see a polarized church," said David Gibson, a former Vatican Radio journalist and author of a book on trends in the church. "He has said himself that he wanted a smaller, but purer, church." 
Critics complain Ratzinger embodies all the conservative instincts of the last papacy, but without John Paul's charis­ma and pastoral genius. 
"I think this is the closest the church can come to human cloning," quipped Gibson. 
It's a joke not too far off the mark. 
Both John Paul II and his successor were forged by the horrors of World War II and advanced in the church in the shadow of the Iron Curtain. They also shared a deep drive to try to use Christianity as a grand unifier for the continent following the collapse of the Berlin WalL 
But the Polish pontiff came from a nation that suffered greatly during the war. Ratzinger -like many from his generation -carries the burdens and ghosts of Germany's past. 
Raised in the oak forest and pine foothills of Bavaria, he said he was enrolled in Hitler's Nazi youth move­ment against his wilL At the same time, the policeman's son entered seminary studies in 1939 as a 12-year-old with "joy and great expectations," according to his memoirs. 
He recalled being deeply moved by the rituals of the church, such as can­dlelight services and midnight Mass. 
But in 1943, he was drafted as an assistant to a Nazi anti-aircraft unit in Munich. Later, he was shipped off to build tank barriers at the Austrian­Hungarian border. He wrote that he escaped recruitment by the dreaded SS because he and others said they were training to be priests. 
"We were sent out with mockery and verbal abuse," he wrote. "But these insults tasted wonderful because they freed us from the threat of that deceit­ful 'voluntary service' and all its conse­quences." 
He deserted in April 1945 and returned home to Traunstein. It was a risky move, since deserters were shot or hanged. But the Third Reich was collapsing. 
"The Americans finally arrived in our village," he wrote. "Even though our house lacked all comfort, they chose it as their headquarters." 
r-----------------:------~ -~-~-----~---­
Wednesday, April 20, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 5 


Third World Catholics express disappointm.ent 
Some hoped new pope would be more intimately connected to developing countries 
Assucia1ecl Press 
TH;Uci<;ALI'A, Honduras ­From thn shanty-1~ovnrnd hill­sidns or Tn!{Uei!{alpa to thn cos­mopolitan strnds of Buenos Ain~s and dusty villages in Africa, hopns had bonn high that tlw nnw pope would be sonuwnn intimatoly lind to tho dnwloping world and its dutl­hmgns. 
l>isappointnwnt was evident when a (;erman, Joseph Hatzingor now Pope Borwdict XVI -was chosen instoad. 
"I would have liknd someone difT1~ront: younger, with new idnas and perhaps with darker skin likn us," silid Alfonso Mnreado, an ien ernam seller in l'nrnira, Colombia. Many in thn city in Colombia's eofTee-grow­ing region hoped Cardinal Durio Castrillon lloyos, who prnadwd in Pnrnira for 22 ynars, would bn chosnn. 
Across the dnvnloping world, tlwrn was bardy disguisnd dis­appointment -parlieularly amon!{ many l.atin Americans, who makn up roughly half tho world's Catholies -that one of llwir own was not 1~leetnd to lnad thn Homan Catholic 
Chun~h. 
"It should have bnnn a Latino," said Gloria Vazquez, a 50-ynar-old housewifn in Tngudgalpa. Ynt she answered llw call of lhe bnlls to a Mass in honor of Uw nnw pope at the Ilonduran capital's little cathe­dral. 
"What are we going to do?" sho asknd. "Wn'ro Catholics." 
Tho ehinws snnt wavns of pignons whnnling abovn thn church, wlwrn doznns of tho faithful had bnnn lisllming to a radio broadeast of thn papal announem111mt lhal nchond off the stainod. ponling walls -a testimony to the poverty of this liquidate liberation theology. part of the Catholic world. lie didn't understand Latin 

.I ulio l.ancellotti, a priest who Ameriea," said Barranco, refer­works with homeless and ring to the blend of the Gospel abandoned children in Sao with radical polities that rose in Paulo, Brazil, frowned when he this region. heard the papal announce­In Africa, the Vatican's ment. announcement 
"We accept the dashed hopes for
"We all had secret

pope who has those who were been chosen," he hopes that the next pulling for said. "I accept in Cardinal Franeis
pope would be one

silence. We Arinze of Nigeria.
ofus."

priests can have In Onitsha, the no opinion." city in southeast­Many believed ern Nigeria where
Bishop Jaime Prieto 

a pope from the Arinze once was
Colombian

developing world bishop, people would be more gathered in foeused on its problems, restaurants and shops -wher­ineluding poverty and the ever they could find a television expansion of' evangelical reli­-to watch the announcement. gions. "The real Catholics of the 
"Hatzinger's pr'esence is a world now are in Africa and disaster for Latin America," Latin America, and it would snapped Bernardo Barranco, a have strengthened the church Mexican sociologist and expert to have a pope from one of on religion, during a telephone those places," said Okwudili interview from Home. Otti, a 45-year-old business­
"lie took it upon himself to man. 
Mary Ekpe, a 30-year-old Nigerian banker, said she never really expected an African pope to be elected. 
"I know Europeans and Americans are not ready l'or that yet," Ekpe said. "But I thought they would've elected somebody from Latin America." 
But she added: "I see some­thing positive in the fact that they chose a German instead of an Italian. It shows at least the church is not returning to the tradition of having only Italian popes." 
Matthew Hassan Kukah, a prominent Nigerian priest in the capital Abuja, said the faithful must not be disappoint­ed. 
"This is not the finals of the World Cup," Kukah said. "The sentiments are understandable, but this is the Catholic Church. We give thanks to God." 
Colombian Bishop .Jaime Prieto acknowledged that "we all had secret hopes that the next pope would be one of us." But he said Ratzinger's choice signals continued Vatican sup­port for efforts to bring peace to Colombia, bloodied by a guerrilla war in which dozens of priests have been killed. 
Monsignor Alejandro Goic, president of the Chilean Bishops Conference, defended the new pope, saying he "has a profound knowledge of Latin America" and speaks Spanish. 
Marlyn Caceres, a 26-year­old selling candles, wooden crosses and rosaries outside La Candelaria Church in Caracas, Venezuela, said she remained hopeful Ratzinger will be a good pope. 
"They say the man is humble. I hope he will be like the pope who died," said Caceres. "May it be as God wishes." 

New pope must confront Q~rman Caramal Jo~ Ratzmger, 78. was e4eeted pope Tuesday TM 265th pontiff took tho name ~nodJCt XVI anc callod hltn$0/f * 41 r;impc humble worter • \*mite John Paul II ·••ae tJti&Cted to cttaitenge commumsrn 11l eastem Europe m
modern issues 1978. ~nodiCt faces new ~.ooG. iod\ldng lhc ~ fOf dialogue Wt1h lsiM'I 
~ .l ..I... • Q Gt• ,~ ~ 
BIOUEDICAL SECULARISM MORAL SEX ABUSE WOMEN'S INTERFAITH RELIGIOUS JOHN ETHICS TEACHINGS SCANDAL ROLE REl.ATlONS COMPETITlON PAUL'S
Nul"l"!ber ot 

Ted'lnolog•cal SHADOW.
pt~~ Oespte • Anget over Ad\'C!Cates Jo,tm Paul E\tengelicaldevolopmoots 
nuns as well church's . "xuat tor women lmpro\100 Protemant It will be 
!n l"'"'ed<:me. 

as church stand~n:rt abuseehurt continue bMwilh Ci'~.rrehe$ rou~ to such as 
attQOdaneo aborton and tho cl"uch pYahngfor a Prot~nta, are ga.t.mt19 emerge fi'Qm
S!em cell 

hMdtop~ blrth OOt'lt!CI, parU~ty grehlet r~. ...lt'W.Is and ~enttin 1hee:hadow research 
in Europe many in tho Unrtod arg..ingpr• Musfmla Latin Arrmnca; ot much loved 
are rorc1ng 

and North Calhoh~ State$, wtu<:h Sh¢tlage will but tNUOr'l$ 1\J\.Islim ~MPaul chllch 
A~ca& go the1r 18 the vatcan's 0\Alf'ltualty remain preachers are in pursuing to oef.ne 
own way b•gge&1 stngle fOtce thee t)tfalnad w1th m31<thg inroad$ the new new poliCJeS 
source of chango the Russian in Aftica papacy donations Orltlodox 
Crowds cheer as Ratzinger announced 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY -The sn1oke wal'ting into the sky Tuesday appeared to bo white, but was it? Nobody eould bo sure as 17 agonizing minutes tickod by on the ornate clock atop St. Peter's Basilica. Then tho hells below b1~gan to toll and people screamed in joy. 
More than 100,000 faithful overl'lowed St. Peter's Square and spilled into the stn~ets of Home to cheer as Cardinal .Joseph Hatzingor of (;ermany emergnd from the rnd velvet drapes of the basilica as Pope Bnnedid XVI. 
"Benedntto!" tho crowd chanted. "Viva il Papa!" National flags waved abovn tho multitudes. People from six continents hugged thnir nnigh­bors and jumped in joy. Many shed tears of bliss; somn Wl'pt in disappointment. 
"We love you!" sernamnd llans Gonzalez, 31, of San Franeiseo, pumping his arms in the air. 
The announcement of a now pope kept everyone guessing to the end. People had been pack­ing the square since Monday evening to watch the Sistine Chapnl chimney for signs of the election. Black smoke meant an unsuccessful ballot; whitn smoke-accompanied by bPils -meant the cardinals had chosen a new pope. 
Whnn tho smoke wont up at 
5:45 p.m., it seemed white. But after two false alarms in as many rounds of voting, no one was sure. 
People argued about tho color of the smoke. Somn sec­tions of the crowd wore silont; others jumped in the air chant­ing, "llabemus papam!"-"We have a popn!" Waves of applause gavo way to thn silence of uncertainty. 
As the minutes passed many began to believe the smokn had been blaek, beeausn no bolls were ringing. "Wiwn it blows in front of tho wall it really looks white, but whnrn arn tlw 
bells'?"  asked Josn  Ignacio  
Hodriguez,  2X,  of  Punbla,  
Mexieo.  

There was a brief f'luttnr when the bells rang at 6 p.m., but the cheers died down when they stopped. They had been ringing the hour. 
Only two minutes passed before they started up again, and it was ofTicial. 
People screamed and climbed onto their chairs. Wild applause spread through the crowd. 

' ' 
page 6 Wednesday, April 20, 2005 
The Observer + NEWS 

Budget 
continued from page 
halls they'll be getting less 
money when we know 
that so many people are 
so dedicated to their 
dorms." 
Marshall said the main 
reason HPC was not given 
more money was based on 
FMB board members cit­
ing that some residence 
halls have more money 
than they actually use. 
"A lot of members of FMB heard that certain residence halls were searching for ways to spend money," Marshall said. "So maybe the HPC can take the $10,000 hit .and just absorb it because so many halls are looking for ways to spend excess 
money." 

Student body president Dave Baron was confident the thriving dorm life of Notre Dame would not be affected by the allocation. 
"I think the traditions that make residence halls good are still there and are well funded," Baron said. "There are other opportunities that halls can pursue through aca­demic departments." 
Inevitably, those who unsuccessfully appeal for more funding will be dis­appointed, Marshall said. 
Clubs and Organizations approached FMB seeking nearly $100,000 over their fixed allocation of $252,987. Marshall said this appeal was unprece­dented and happened due to the success of several new clubs, such as LeadND. 
"Clubs and Organiza­
tions had a huge influx of new members, and they had new clubs that got really ambitious and were very productive," Marshall said. "So they had a lot of clubs asking for more money so they can improve even more next year." 
The funds available for allocation come from rev­enues brought in from activity fees and The Shirt. For the first $200,000 brought in from The Shirt, the Student Union is guaranteed $100,000. Any additional money brought in from sales will not be allocated until December, when the Board reviews spending and campus organizations appeal for more funds . 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
CHINA 



Minister calls for calm 
BEIJING -After weeks of sometimes-violent anti­Japanese protests, China's foreign minister called on the public Tuesday to remain calm and to stay away from unapproved demonstrations. 
Similar comments were made last week by Beijing city police officials, but Tuesday's televised com­ments marked the first time a member of the cen­tral government had spo­ken out against the demon­strations. 

"Do not participate in unapproved marches and other activities and do not do anything that will affect the social stability," said Li Zhaoxing. 
"Express yourselves calmly, rationally and in an orderly fashion," Li said in a speech on Sino-Japanese relations given to govern­ment and military officials. 
On Saturday, police in Shanghai let 20,000 pro­testers break windows at the Japanese Consulate, vandalize Japanese restau­rants and damage cars. 
China has refused to apologize or pay compen­sation, saying Japan sparked the protests. 

Students hopeful about future vvith Benedict XVI 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
According to Notre Dame sophomore Leslie Penko, Catholics can look for positive changes from Pope Benedict XVI but should avoid comparing him to the late Pope John Paul II. 
"After all of the dynamic changes he made in the Church, John Paul II is def· initely a hard act to follow," Penko said. "He had a unique papacy, but I think we're ready for something new, and I'm anxious to see what Pope Benedict XVI has to ofl'er." 
Other students echoed Penko's enthusiasm about the cardinal's selec­tion. 
''I'm excited," said junior Chelsea Horgan. "I think he's going to be a real­ly good pope. I know he was a good friend of John Paul II. Maybe he will lead with the same spirit and enthusi­asm. Hopefully he will be a good pope for the masses." 
Saint Mary's freshman Meg Schmitt was upbeat about the future of the Church under Pope Benedict XVI. 
"I was happy with the selection," said Schmitt. "I think he is likely to follow in the footsteps of John Paul ... and be a good transitional pope." 
Penko noted the new pope has already led a distinguished life. 
"I know he's very prominent, espe­cially in Germany," she said. "He was a professor in many universities. Many people thought he was next in line for the papacy." 
Many students expected that the car­dinals would take longer than two days to choose a new pope. 
''I'm really excited about it but sur­prised that they picked [the pope] after two days of conclave," said Horgan. "It was a surprise to wake up this morning and have a new pope." 
Some students expressed concern about the pope's conservative views. 
"They say he is more of a radically conservative Catholic," said senior Matt Brennan. "I've heard he's against.some teachings of Catholic universities. I'm pessimistic but hoping to be pleasantly surprised." 
Freshman Caitlin Landuyt worried the pope's election might lend a funda­mentalist tone to the Church. 
"It's a step backward because he's conservative and Pope John Paul II was a more modern pope. He brought the Cbureh up to date," she said. 
While most students noted the new pope's politics, some also commented on his nationality. 
"I was surprised he is German and conservative," said freshman Erin Rogozinski. "So much media attention was on an African pope, and it ended up being an older white man from a powerful country." 
Not everyone was surprised that this election failed to bring geographic vari­ety to the papacy. Sophomore Courtney Rayam cited stability as a possible fac­tor in the cardinals' choice. 
"I can see how they would want the pope to be from Europe," she said. 
Though students showed a variety of reactions to the pope's election, all looked hopefully to the future. 
"I think it's exciting to start a new era," said Rogozinski. "Some changes might be good." 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 



•Muu qolJ g B«; ReJ e~uwJ-1 
GOIYI£ PlflY trfff(f GDlf, flf(D G£1" YDlJR PIC 1"liR£ rf!KEN ff( fl BIG RED CHflfRf :2:oopm 1 f!,r:v.U .so.ut~t 2wu1 1 delteo. r;W-e-~ to. tw.le in o.ne ~! 
•:b~Uoe-!Jn Mtw.ie Ht&Ji60#1k~! 
9:00pm I Nod), 2u.ad I dJ.~~R£ g~ o.J BiJ4 M~ 
lin 'ToGta{ is brought to you by the Student Union Board. sub.nd.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, April 20, 2005 CoMPILED FROM TI·IE OnsERVER'S wrRE SERVICES page 7 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Chinese protests kept in check 
BJ.:LIIN<; -Aller wnnks of somntimns-vio­
lt~nt anti-.Japannsn protests, China's foreign 
minister caiiNI on thn publie Tuesday to 
remain calm and to stay away lhHn unap­
provml demonstrations. 
Similar eomnwnts wnrn mack last wonk by Bnijing city policn of'lidals, but Tunsday's tnl­evisPd eoni!JWnts marked thn first time a lliPIIJiwr of the ~~entral govnmnwnt had spo­kPn out against tlw demonstrations. 
"J>o 11111 participate in unapproved mardws and otlwr arlivities and do not do anything that will aiTnd tlw social stability," said J.i Zlwoxing. 
"I ·:xprnss you rsnlvns calmly, rationally and in 1111 oniPrly fashion," Li said in a speech on Sino-.lapannsn relations givnn to govnmnwnt and n1ilitary ollicials. 
Deadly virus remains missing 
(;J·:NHVA -South Korea has joined Mnxico and LPhanon as !'.ountrins that havn ypt to dnstroy all samples of the killer influpnza virus thny rnenivnd as part of rout.irl!' test kits, thn U.N. health agnney said Ttwsday. 
But all thrnn countries havn madn progn~ss in tracing the· missing shipmnnts l'rom t.hn llnitnd Stal!~s. said Klaus Stohr, influenza rhief of thn World llealth ( J rgan ization. 
Bnrausn of fpars of a global pandmnic should tlw virus be released. WIIO has IH'Pn urging destruction of the 50-yoar-old 112N2 virus included in kits snnt to 61 labo­ratories in IS countric~s outside tho United Stales. 
"We lwlieve that within the noxl hours, pnrhaps days, the mattnr will be rosolvnd," Stohr told J'nporl.nrs. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Obesity problem overstated 
CIIICA<;o -!king overwoight is nowhoro nn;u· as big a kiiiPr as tho govnrnnwnt thought, ranking No. 7 instead of No. 2 among tho nation's l1~ading pnwnntahiP causns of dnath. a!TO)'(Iing to a startling nPw c:akulation from tho CDC. 
HnsnarchPrs at tlw CPnl.nrs for Disoaso Control and l'rnvnntion rnportPd that packing on too many pounds accounts for 25,X14 dnalhs a ynar in tlw Unit.ml Stal.os. As rm:ontly as .January, l.l1n CDC r.anw up with an nstimalP 14 t.inws higlwr: :H,5.000 deaths. 
TIH' nnw analysis l(nmd that obesity-bPing PxtrPnudy ovnrw~>ight-is indisputably IPthal. But likn snwral rncnnt smallnr studios, it. l(nmd that pnopln who an~ modnstly owrwoight aetu­ally haw a lowPr risk of dnath than those of normal wnighl.. 
Sex offenders under surveillance 
T!\I.I.AIIASSI•:J<:, Fla. -Tho state llouso on TuPsday unanimously passnd a bill narnod aftnr a 1J-ynar-old girl who was ahduel.nd and kiiiPd last rnc,.Jth that would bolstPr punish­nwnl.s f(,r snx ofl'nnders. 
Tho .lnssica Lunsford Act would sot a mandatory snnl.nncn of 25 years to lifo in prison f(lr rwopln ronvid1~d of rnolnsting ehil­dr·tm undPr 12. II' ofl(HJdPrs servo loss than lifo, t.hny would bn rnquirnd to wnar a global posi­tioning sysi.Pill dnvicn af'tm· tlwir rolnaso so authoritins could monitor tlwir whnr-eabouts. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Drug test instigates layoffs 
(;I)SJIHN, Ind.-Nnarly !Hw-third of nrnployot~s at a plant that makPs earnpors lost thoir jobs al'tnr tlwy tostnd positive for illng;LI drugs, company oflkials said. 
Knystorw HV Co. lnr. l.nstml all 120 omploy­nns at t.lw plant aftor rnc1~iving a tip from poli1~1~. company of'ficials said. 
NParly ono-third of thn workers tn!!lf.nd pos­il.ivo for nit.her marijuana, cocairw, amphnta­111 i nP o r nw t ham phntam in o d u r i n g I. h o plantwidn drug S!TIHHling April II, tho com­pany said. 
Tnsting positivn for one or morn of tho ille­gal drugs is reason for dismissal at Keystone. 
Anniversary celebrates hope 
Memorial service commemorates loss of Oklahoma City bombing victims 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY ­
Their voieos sweotly out of 
syne, tho four childron 
stood on tho stagn -a liv­
ing symbol of hope and 
!waling a doeade after tho 
Oklahoma City bombing. 
"We r.omo horn to rnmem­
bnr those who worn killod, 
those who survived and 
thoso c.hangod fornvor," the 
ehildron said, reciting the 
ereed of tho Oklahoma City 
National Memorial on the 
1Oth anniversary of tlw 
blast. "May all who Joave 
here know thn impact of 
violonen." 
Tho childrnn, who were all injurnd in the blast, mad the messagn Tuesday at an anniversary serviee attend­ed by morn than 1,600 peo­ple and hold in a ehureh that servml as a tmnporary morgue al'tor the blast. 
Othor ehildren, who lost parents in tho bombing, road the names of everyone killed, and the dnad were also rnmemberod with 16H seconds of silenee at tho moment Timothy McVeigh blew up the building a decade earlier. 

Across the strnet at tho Oklahoma City National Memorial, in th1~ grassy J'inld whnrn thn building onen stood, 16S ornpty chairs wnre a so)nmn remindor of the carnage. Toddy boars wero placod on miniaturn ehairs represent­P.J. 1\llcm, Christopher domostie tnrrorism. who was pulled from llw ing the 1CJ children slain in Nguyen, Hnbneca and "All humanity can sno you debris. placed wrnaths and tho building's daycaro enn­Brandon Donny -the four nxporionend bottomless cru­flowers on tho rhairs of' four tnr. ehildron who road the elty and rnspondod with slain eo-worknrs. "I pray 
"You learn to accept it. mnmorial's crnod and who hnroism," Vien Prosidnnt ovnr them. I talk to thnm," You can't chango it, so why am now tnons and preteons Dick f:henny said. "Your she said. 'Til novnr lnt any­carry that bil.tornoss for -worn injurnd in tho day­strongth was challnngod OIW forgel.l.lwm." your ontirn lifo?" said Larry earn. Brandon still suiTors and you hold l'irm. Your McVnigh was !'onvictnd of Whiehor, 44, of Hussollvillo, soizurns af'tnr losing part of faith was tostnd and il. has fndnral conspiracy and Ark., who lost his brother his brain. not wavorml." mu rdor r.harges and Pxn­Alan Whicher. "Oklahoma City changed !\cross tho strnnt, Juanita r u tod on J u n n I I . 2 0 0 I . 
Tho blast at tho Alf'rnd P. us all. It broke our hearts Espinosa wipnd away tnars Conspirator Terry Nirhols is Murrah Federal Building and lil't1HI our spirits and as she stood in front of tlw serving multipln life S!'ll­took a giant bito f'rom thn brought. us togothor," said pint-sized chair of hnr tenr.os aftPr !wing mnvid.nd front of thn building, send­formnr President Clinton, cousin, 2-yoar-old Zaekary in l(~dPra.l and slat!' court.. ing the top floors pancaking who was in off'icn that Chavez. ''I'm on t.hn road to for­onto the ofliens and dayeam sunny April 1CJ, 19%, morn­"They f(nmd his lwad one givnness." said .lannie 1~nntnr bolow. The vietims ing. week, and his body anotlwr Coverdaln, who lost lwr two wnre federal workors, peo­Tho spoakors f(Jeusnd not week." shn said. "It's still young grandsons, Aaron ple applying for Social on the images of death and too much to think about." and Hlijah. in tlw blast. "I Socurity c~ards, kids whose destruction, but on thn Hogina Bonny, a rntirod will f'nnl murh hnl.l.nr onco I pan~nts had just dropped rnsponso of those afl'eetnd undereovnr agnnt with thn can forgivn Tim M1~Vnigh thorn ofl'. by tho nation's worst aet of Drug 1\nforeomnnt !\gnney and Tnrry Nid10ls." 

CANADA 

Parties split on more global plan 
Conservatives intnnd to put forward a lnm, but wn will do what wn can to 
Associated Press 

no-confidence vote within weeks, hop­protnet otlwrs, to raise tlwm up. to 
TOHONTO -Canada unvoilod a ing to topple tho Martin administra­makn them safo." complex now bluoprint to overhaul its tion, though a majority of Canadians Tho dnl(~nse portion of the owrhaul fornign aid, dofensn and trado polides are not keen on new oh~ctions. calls on tlw military's dnploynwnt on Tuesday, attempting to boost its The wide-ranging statonwnt eamn eapability to double within fivo yoars, global standing and expand security 1 X months af'tnr Martin nixed tho ini­backed up with $12.H billion in nnw tins with the United Statns. tial draft and eallnd for nunwrous military spnnding, by hiring sonw 
The opposition Consnrvativo Party rewritns. 5,000 nnw full-time soldiers, forming pouncnd on the policy review, claiming "We want to make a real difl'eroneo a nnw rapid-rnsponsn fi1reo and buy­the timing of its mleasn was meant to in halting and proventing conllict and ing nnw ships, aircraft and whirlns. improve Primo Ministnr Paul Martin's improving human welfare around tho It also plndgos to shorn up contirwn­Liberal Party ehanees in now elec­world," Martin said Tuesday. "The tal del'onsn with tho United States, not­tions, oxpoetnd as early as June. people of our country have long ing Ottawa would 1:rnatn a new com­
Martin's minority govornmont is understood that, as a proud dtizen of mand enntnr, the lntegratl'd Thn~at mired in a spending scandal that has the world, Canada has global respon­!\ssnssmnnt Ccmtnr, to gathnr and dis­cost it popularity in the polls. Tho sibilities. We ean't solve every prob-seminate intolligonee. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 20, 2005 
director of the Center for accomplishments alone will because of St. Benedict, the is a pope who will share the Spirituality at Saint Mary's, not be enough to lead the founder of Western monasti­leadership, scatter the star­
Church 
continued from page 1 
pope, given his substantial influence on the conclave. 
Law professor Vincent Hougeau said that while he didn't know exactly why Hatzinger was picked, the conclave made "a conserva­tive choice, theologically and practically." 
"They picked the classic insider -very close to the current pope, very much a Vatican insider," Rougeau said. 
He said the choice of Hatzinger over a candidate from the Third World would ma\ntain the current theologi­cal direction without introduc­ing new issues to the papacy. 
The idea of a Third World pope "generated interest, but uncertainty," Rougeau said. 
Cunningham said the failure to choose a pope from the Third World was not due to a lack of boldness on the con­clave's part, since John Paul II was the first Polish pope after 450 years of Italian pontiffs and Hatzinger will be the first German pope since the early 11th century. 
While picking a pope with a third world background would have "showed the Catholicity of the Church in a dramatic way, Cunningham said Ratzinger is not naive and will be sensitive to the needs of the world's developing areas. 
Sister Kathleen Dolphin, 

Mass 
continued from page 1 
II was situated in that exact loca­tion. 
Like his predecessor, Benedict XVI has a history with Notre Dame. Warner said he, along with University President Father Edward Malloy, had the distinct pleasure of meeting and speaking with Ratzinger during a past visit to the Vatican. Warner called the newly-named pontifl' a "truly holy man" and a "man of deep faith." 
"He was knowledgeable about the University of Notre Dame and committed to the Catholic Church's mission of higher educa­said she was concerned when world's Catholics. she heard the name Ratzinger "Now he has to be a pastor, announced because he is per­not just a scholar ... and I ceived to be a "divisive figure" hope he will take his role as by many people in the pastor as seriously as he took Catholic Church. his role a scholar," Dolphin 

Cunningham said while he said. would not describe Ratzinger Despite. Dolphin's apprehen­
as  "controver­ sion  about  the  
sial,"  the  new  conclave's deci­ 
pope's hard-line stances could be  "The new pope is  sion, she was encouraged when  
troubling to some believers. "I suppose  saying he wants to be a peacemaker. "  she heard name the pope chose  the new for  
some  people  himself, Benedict  
would prefer him not to be elected because of his conserva­ Sr. Kathleen Dolphin Saint Mary's Center for Spirituality director  XVI. "We signals choice  received in his of name  
tive reputation,"  which shed some  
Cunningham  light  on  how he  

said. might proceed," Dolphin said. 
Neither Rou-geau nor The previous Benedict, Pope Cunningham thought Pope Benedict XV, headed the John Paul II had been official­Catholic Church from 1914 to ly grooming Ra.tzinger, his 1922 and worked hard to closest advisor and confi­keep Europe from slipping dante, to take over the papa­into what eventually became cy. known as the Great War, 
"If he were, we wouldn't World War I. have known that anyway," "By choosing that name, Cunningham said. what the new pope is saying is 
Cunningham and Dolphin he wants to be a peacemaker both praised Ratzinger's among divided factions within strong theological back­the Church" and within the ground. world community, Dolphin 
"He's a very smart guy and said. a great theologian," Cunn-ing­Cunningham took a different ham said. "Ratzinger was very stance on the new pope's important at the Second choice of name. Vatican Council." "A lot of people say he 
Dolphin described Ratz­wants people to think of the inger's outstanding scholar­last Benedict, Benedict XV," ship as a positive sign for the Cunningham said. "I myself Church, but said academic think he chose the name 
tion," Warner said. 
Warner said he and Malloy had even invited the German cardinal to speak and receive an honorary degree at Notre Dame. Unfortunately, they were refused the visit. 
"Cardinal Ratzinger wanted to read as much as he could -and travel as little as he could," said Warner, inciting hearty laughter from the Basilica crowd. 
In his new role, the former the­ological adviser to John Paul II will have to grow accustomed to globe-trotting in the name of the Catholic Church. Warner said one of the pope's objectives will be to fight nonreligious forces of influ­ence. 
"We will see and be led in a cism and the patron saint of Europe." 
This name would reflect the new pope's intention to focus on Europe -western Europe in particular -and that region's issues of concern, such as declining church attendance and a sense of demoralization. 
Cunningham also discussed the spread of Islam in western Europe, citing the French city of Marseille, which has reached a 17 percent Muslim population in recent years, as an example. 
"That whole issue will greatly affed the Church," he said. 
In a talk given after the death of Pope John Paul II, R. Scott Appleby, professor of history and director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, said the next pope would face four main challenges during his papacy. 
The first challenge Appleby cited was collegiality, explain­ing that while Pope John Paul II deserves praise, criticism has been leveled against him for his leadership style. 
'There's been one superstar in the past 26 years, and it's John Paul II," Appleby said, something that conflicts with Vatican II calling the Church back to the collegial model and emphasizing local leader­ship. 
"The Church is so internally plural, diversified," Appleby said. "What needs to happen dust all around." 
Appleby said another chal­lenge John Paul II's successor will face is the question of Islam. 
Islam, a growing religion with a following that slightly surpasses Roman Catholicism in numbers, is quickly becom­ing a world power, Appleby said. 
"We need a pope that under­stands that world, that can bring people to reach out in dialogue," he said. 
The challenge of science and technology was the third Appleby listed. 
"We are entering a phase where there's not much con­sensus about what life is," he said, "If we don't improve on Catholic tradition, our leading intellectuals will not be up to speed." 
Appleby finished by dis­cussing the challenge of faith, explaining that the pope must deal with the complexity of a both increasingly religious 
and  increasingly  secular  
world.  
"We're entering  a  world  

where secularity and religion are entering into new modes of dynamics," Appleby said. "What's more challenging and complex is the coexistence of secular and religious faith in individual and public forums." 
The Observer was unable to contact Appleby Tuesday. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

struggle to counteract secularism, In response to his first papal Mass. which often counters the gospel blessing, the throng of supporters "Let us pray for a long and of Jesus Christ," Warner said. gathered at the Vatican for wonderful papacy," Warner said. "We will pray everyday for the Benedict XVI chanted, "Viva il "Long live Pope Benedict XVI." success of this papacy because it papa." Warner echoed their very is also the success of [the sentiments some seven hours Contact Katie Perry at Church.]" later at the cone! usion of the kperryS@nd.edu 
7ur-tle Creek Apar-tmen-ts GET IT WHILE IT'S H 0 T! 

Thursday...... April 21, 2005 Free Cookout 
5:30 • 9 pm Door Prizes &Karaoke Stop by &Join the fun 
• 
Walk to campus 

• 
Hook-up with friends, just blocks from your favorite night spots 

• 
Bronze yourself at our pool 

• 
Keep your car clean in 


•

our carports 
.866.395.4201 
www.aimco.com 1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 
Bring this coupon in to receive 

1 MONTH FREE* 
* Restrictions Apply Expires 4/30/05 
• 

#1 NO HOT SPOT 

THE OBSERVER 








USINESS
Wt:dncsday, 
April 20, 2005 page 9 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow ro,121.41 +56.16
}ones 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2.497 117 • 2,162,338.650 
AMEX I ,442.27 +21.12 NASDAQ I ,932.36 +19.44 NYSE 7,030.74 +61.65 S&PSOO I, 152.78 +6.XO NIKKB(Tokyo) II ,065.86 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,X55.60 +2X.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) +0.69 +0.24 34.99 INTEL CP (INTC) + 1.89 +0.42 22.63 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.08 -0.02 24.63 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.68 +0.08 11.88 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.94 +0.16 17.18 

30-YEAR BOND -1.00 -0.46 45.41 I 0-YEAR NOTE -1.08 -0.46 42.03 5-YEAR NOTE -1.31 -0.51 38.45 3-MONTH BILL + 1.24 +0.35 28.47 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.92 52.29 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) + 5.40 434.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.28 85.95 
Excha Rates 
YEN 106.9000 EURO 0.7656 POUND 0.5215 
CANADIAN$ 1.2373 

IN BRIEF 
Hitch's Detroit empire expands 
DETIWIT-Marian llitch is the matriarch of a husinnss mnpire that includes one of the nation's largnst pizza chains, two professional sports franchisns and a wealth of real estate. 
Now slw's on thn vergp, of beeoming one of tlw l'nw privato individuals to own a major casino. 
Hitch has long been eonsidemd the financial brains bnhind lwr family's businesses, which indude Little Caesars pizza, hockey's Detroit Hnd Wings and baseball's Detroit Tigers, with a cornhirwd 2004 revenue of more than $1 bil­lion. Shn and her family have won praise for thnir 1~xtnnsivn investments in Detroit. a eity that has struggled with rapid population dndinn and nconomie stagnation, but also crit­icism for some of their business decisions. 
Hitch, who semns most comfortable bohind tlw scmws, is set to take on a morn public role as tlw soln owner of one of Detroit's three casinos. State oflidals last week approved her hid to huy out her partners in MotorCity Casino, whkh takes in more than $400 million in rovnmw a ynar. 
Hitch and lwr better-known husband, Mike, who arn both in their 70s, began their busi­nnss earners in 1959 with the opening of a pizza parlor in suburban Detroit, the first l.ittln Caesars. 
HealthSouth CEO asks for dismissal 
BIHMIN<;IIAM. Ala. -Prosecutors rested thoir ease against fin~d llealthSouth Corp. CEO Hkhard Scrushy on Tuesday after 12 weeks of trial that indudml testimony by five former linance chief's linking Scrushy to a $2.7 billion earnings overstatmnent. 
The dnf'ensn -which argues that the testi­mony hy the CFOs and about two dozen other governnwnt witnosses provod no such link ­asked U.S. l>istriet .ludgo Karon Bowdre to dismiss all ehargns. 
Bowdrn sdwdulml a hearing for Thursday on wlwtlwr to throw out the ease. Assuming shl' doesn't, tlw def'ensn will present its first witrwss later that day. 
Sn·ushy is tlw first chief exncutive officer charged with violating tho Sarbanns-Oxlny corporal!' reporting law. passed in 2002. lie also is aecusnd of conspiracy, fraud, monny laundering and obstruction ofjusticn. 
Coke ends two investigations 
Worlds' largest beverage manufacturer faces new challenge in public protests 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -The Coca­Cola Co. said Monday that the .Justice Department has dosed its two-year­old investigation into alle­gations raised in a whistlP.blower lawsuit of accounting irregularities at the world's biggest soft drink company without taking any action. 
Separately, thf1 Atlanta­based company said it has reached a settlemont with t.hn Securities and Exehango Commission over its business praetiens in .Iapan. 
"We are pleased that today's settlement with the Sneuritil1s and Exchange Commission, and thn d11cision by thn l>npartmon t of J ustiee to close its investigation, mark an end to the U.S. govet·nnHmt inquiries ini­tiated in 2003," ehief executive Neville lsdell said in a statement. 
The Justicf1 Department probe involved al11~gations raised in a 2003 lawsuit filed by former Coke man­ager Matthew Whitley, who claimed he was fired in retaliation for report­ing to senior managf1ment allegations of fraud and aecoun~ing irregularities. 

Among other things, Whitley alleged that Coke rigged a marketing test at Burger King restaurants in 2000 and made false or take unspecified remedial mented an undisclosed ers. As a result, typically misleading statements or actions in the areas of practice in Japan in bottlers' conenntrato omissions in connection corporate compliance and which Japanese bottlers invP.ntory levnls increase with the reporting of sales disclosure. He said in the were offered extended approximately in propor­volume. memo that the SEC settle­credit terms to induce tion to their salns of fin­
Coke denied most of the ment does not include a them to purchase quanti­ished products to rntail­allegations, but admitted monetary fine or penalty ties of beverage concen­ers. that some of its officials and added that Coke doe$ trate the bottlers other­However, as a result of undermined the market­not admit or deny wrong­wise would not have pur­Coke's practice, from ing test. It later settled doing. chased until a following 1997 to 1999 its Japanese Whitley's lawsuit for According to an order period. bottlers' conenntrate $540,000. issued Monday, the SEC Coca-Cola typieally sells inventory levels incrnased 
In a memo to employ­found that, at or near the gallons of concentrate to at a ratn more than five ees, lsdell said that under end of each reporting its bottlers corresponding times greater than that of the settlement with the period between 1997 and to its bottlers' sales of fin­finished product sales to SEC, Coke has agreed to 1999, Coca-Cola imple-ished products to retail-retailers, tlw SEC said. 

GE, Eli Lilly to research together 
Associated Press 

STAMFOHD, Conn. -General Electric Co. and Eli Lilly and Co. said on Tuesday they are collaborat­ing on a research project intended to accelerate the discovery and development of a treatment for Alzhcimp,r's disease. 
The agreement marks GE's first major partnership with a pharma­ceutical company. GE is trying to be a leader in diagnosing disoases narly_at the moleeular level. 
"One of the toughest challenges with Alzheimer's disease has been to develop a molecular diagnostic to determine objectively if someone has thf1 disease prior to observed mental impairment," said Scott I>onnolly, senior vice president of GE Global Research. "We an1 confi­dent that this collaboration will result in a definitive molecular diag­nostic for this disease that has been long overdue in the medical com­munity." 
Alzheimer's is a brain degenera­tion disease that afflicts about 4.5 million Americans. It eventually robs victims of memory and the ability to communicate and care for themselves. 
Diagnosing Alzheimp,r's before memory damage has the potential to transform treatment of the dis­<lase. Doctors could prescribn a treatment for those with elevated lovels of the protein in the brain to slow or stop the progression of the disease, Lilly oflieials said. 
Fairfield-based GE will devnlop contrasting agents, which arn injected into patients to hPip Lilly scientists evaluate thorapies to treat Alzheimer's. GE will have aceoss to Lilly's extensive molecular libraries to search for compounds that would be promtsrng for use in targoted diagnostic imaging agents for Alzheimer's disP.as<~. 
Lilly, based in Indianapolis, will then have access to any diagnostic agents developed by GE to use from the early research phaso through clinical trials. 
Seientists at both companins can accelerate thnir progress by sharing molecular libraries, rnsnarch find­ings and othnr resourcns, (;1\ of'f'i­cials said. 
GE's health eare busirwss is devnl­oping targetnd molneular diagnos­tics for a varinty of rwurological dis­eases, induding Parkinson's diseasp and Alzheimnr's diseasn. GJ~ is plan­ning to nxpand its activities with pharmaceutical partners to rcsnarch othnr disnasns. 
Shares of G E tradnd Tunsday afternoon on the Nnw York Stock Exchange at $35.92, down H 1~nnts. 
page 10 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 20, 2005 
Pope 
continued from page 1 
newly-elected pope in a state­ment released by Notre Dame. 
"On behalf of the Notre Dame community, I congratulate our Holy Father, Pope Benedict XVI," Malloy said. "We wish God's blessings on him as he begins this central ministry of leader­ship and service in the Roman Catholic Church. We will contin­ue to pray for him and with him in the days and months ahead." 
Some members of the Notre Dame community were shocked, yet enthusiastic, about the choice of Hatzinger as the next pope. 
''I'm very, very excited. I'm surprised," said Fisher rector Father Hobert Moss. "He would not have been the one I would have thought would have been chosen, but I certainly think it's the work of the Holy Spirit." 
Though the cardinals only began their deliberations Monday, University President Emeritus Father Theodore Ilesburgh said he is confident that their choice was a good one. 
"I can imagine that the Holy Spirit was left to guide the Church. I think they made the right choice," Ilesburgh said. "All I know is if he's elected by the power of the Holy Spirit, that's good enough for me." 
In the early 1960s, llesburgh invited Ratzinger, then a promis­ing theologian in Munich, Germany, to join the Notre Dame community. 
"I was trying hard to build up the theology department, so I invited him to come over and join the faculty," Hesburgh said. 
Hatzinger, who Hesburgh recalled as having very bad English at the time, declined the offer. 
"I never realized I invited the future pope to join our faculty," Hesburgh said. 
Warner and Malloy met with the then Cardinal Ratzinger together in his Rome office a few years ago for about an hour. 
"He knew a lot about Notre Dame," Warner said. "He was shy, but he was a very agreeable person. He was bright and he knew a lot about [the University]." 
Warner said that as a former professor, Ratzinger has a good deal of knowledge about Catholic higher education. 
"He was most gracious and spoke about the essential role of Catholic higher education in the life of the Church," Malloy said of the meeting. 
Following the April 2 death of 

Pope John Paul II, the possibility 
aros.e that his successor would 
hail from a Third World country. 
At the center of the discussion 
was Cardinal Francis Arinze of 
Nigeria, who will receive an 
honorary degree from Notre 
Dame on May 15 and wielded 
great influence in promoting 
inter-religious dialogue. 
However, there is still an 
opportunity for cardinals from 
countries such as Africa to 
establiS'h their place in the 
Catholic Church for the future, 
several priests said. 
"In all honesty, the Church in 
Africa is so young. It's only been 
125 years," Warner said. "That 
does not sound young, but it 
does if you talk about 2,000 
years." 

"It's not an Italian lpopel. 
That's a step to broadening the 
Church," Moss added. "I think the time for the Third World will ·certainly come." . 
Bishop John D'Arcy of the 
Homan Catholic Diocese of Fort 
Wayne-South Bend expressed 
his excitement with the election 
of Ratzinger in a press confer­
ence Tuesday. 

"He'll be strong on issues but 
kind and gracious with those 
who disagree with him," D'Arcy 
said, according to the South 
Bend Tribune. "I think he'll 
teach (doctrine) and reinforce it 
and explain it well and that he'll 
be very conscious of the currents 
of the times....I think he'll put a 
lot of emphasis on natural law, 
the law that's written in our 
hearts." 

D'Arcy met with Hatzinger on 
many occasions during visits to 
Home, most recently in June 
2004, according to the Tribune. 
Though some were surprised 
by the quick election, many feel 
that the Holy Spirit guided the 
conclave's decision. 
"I think it shows a consensus, 
a sense of unity, a desire on the 
part of the cardinals to have a 
man of theology," D'Arcy said. 
"He was one of the closest to 
John Paul II. It will be a wonder­
ful continuation," Moss said. "I 
truly believe it's the Holy Spirit's 
choice." 

As Benedict XVI assumes the 
role of pope, many hope that 
John Paul Il's concern for the 
entire Catholic world community 
will continue. 

"I think that what we need 
right now is a, bridge-builder. 
That is what a pontiff is," said 
Father Paul Doyle. "That is what 
we need right now because the 
world seems to be splintering 
into its vario.us factions. I m 
praying that this is what he 
turned out to be." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
Undergraduate Female ofthe Year Undergraduate Male of the Year Sara Gilloon -Cavanaugh Hall Mike Iselin ­Keenan Hal Carnie Campbell -Walsh Hall Jon Kaup ­Siegfried Hall Racquel Ferrer-McGlinn Hall Tim Fetter-Stanford Hall  
Grad/Fae/StalT Female of the Year Grad!Fae/Statf Male of the Year Caitlin Johnson Angel Martin Kristy DiVittorio Doug Bartels Cate Harmeyer Thomas Oark:  
Game of the Year Knott vs. Keenan Knights (IH Footbal t-lnals) Keenan Knights vs. Dillon Al (lnterhall Basketball semifinals) C.avanaugh vs. Walsh (Women's Interhall Football)  
Team ofthe Year Question Marks CoRee Volleyball Keough l.ce Hockey Keenan Football  Fans ofthe Year Cavanaugh Hall Dillon Hockey Farley Basketball  




: Presented By: Scheduled Recruiters: Capital One I Ferguson I FedEx Ground 
jJ\ ~~~~~l.~~S:E , 
Enterprise Rent-a-Car I Corporate Executive Board 
! washingtonpost.com i 
Nationwide Insurance I Devon Health SeNices I NVR 
•:f;i~hlt Cox Radio I Hajoca I Kellogg Brown & Root SeNices 
~""""'-~ 

Grad students, staff & faculty: 
The 2005 Do~ne yearbook 
is available for purchase at the LaFortune lnfor:-mation Desk 
$29.00 (Cash~ check or credit card) 
Out ofthe area? Go online http://marketplace.nd.edu/studentsbop/ 
Wednesday, April 20, 2005 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page II 
RUSSIA 




Rice says democracy grows 
Secretary of State praises progress, nezv freedoms; notes shortcomings 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW -Ser.retary of State Condolcezza Hice said Tuesday that Hussia is far from the totalitarian state it onee was, dting individual freedoms sud1 as a right to protest and tlw nxisten1~e of opposition groups rnady to ehallenge the Krmnlin. 
While ar.knowledging Hussia's sntbaeks in developing a dmnoeraey. Hice's tone as she briefed reporters eontrastcd with the eombative mood two months ago, wlwn President Bush admonished President Vladimir Putin to embraee freedom. 
After an overnight !light from Washington, Hiee and her party toudwd down on a eool, rainy afternoon for a 24-hour visit. They were scheduled to go irnnwdiately from tho air­port to thnir hotel but a bomb thrnat forn~d a dntour. After a two-hour searr.h, the authori­tit~s eonc.luded there was no danger. 
Speaking to reporters while en rout<~ horn, fticc deseribed thn Hussian intnrnal situation as mmplnx, with obvious signs ol' ineroasing cnntralized con­trol eonxisting with dcmor.ratic trappings that were absent during communist rule. 
Sho noted that Hussians are still l'rne to air their grievances. 
Russians, she said, "certainly have had their share of protests concerning pension reform. I think it would be a mistake to somehow think of this as somehow reverting baek to Soviet times." 
IUce also pointed to what she said was the number of Hussians from opposition groups who are willing to seek the presidency in 2008, calling that "a positive development." 
During Bush's meeting with Putin in Slovakia two months ago, the tensions were appar­ent as Bush exhorted thfl Hussian leader to pursue demoeracy and ehallenged Putin about his government's behavior. 
At the lime, Bush said dmnocraeies rellect a country's customs and culture but must have "a rule of law and protec­tion of minorities, a free press and a viable political opposi­tion." He said he talked with Putin about his "concerns about Hussia's commitment in fulfilling these universal princi­ples" and about Putin's restric­tions on the press. 
"I think Vladimir heard me loud and clear," Bush said. 
But Putin rejected the criti­cism and insisted there was no backsliding, saying Hussia has turned its back on commu­nism. 
"Hussia has made its choice 
in favor of democracy," Putin 
declared. 

On Tuesday, Hice suggested 
Hussia's transition to democra­
cy "is very complicated" given 
the country's authoritarian 
past. 

Among democratic setbacks 
along the way, she cited the 
centralization of state power in 
the presidency at the expense 
of the legislative branch. 
Also, she said, the absence of 
independent electronic media 
outlets is worrisome, calling 
that a "principal concern." She 
also said provincial governors 
are now appointed instead of 
elected. 

Hice said there is no thought 
of seeking Russia's expulsion from the so-called G-8, the elite group of the world's most industrialized nations. There have been some calls for ·Hussia's exclusion from the group, but Hice said there is "no reason we would want to 
see Hussia isolated." 
In exchange for the privi­
leges of G-8 membership, 
Hussia should abide by demo­
cratic principles and the rule of 
law, she said. 

She said the Bush adminis­
tration is pushing for demo­
cratic progress in Hussia 
because it is the only way a 
"deep, broad" relationship can 
develop, one that is based on 
common values. 
QATAR 

Robots replace boys as catnel-racing jockeys 
Associated Press 
DOHA -With the reins in one hand and a whip in the other, the purple-jerseyed rider prod­ded a camel around the track. 
But this jockey wasn't the usual underfed boy. The joekey was a robot. 
Under the watchful eyes of his Swiss developer and Qatari own­ers, the robot -dubbed Kamel -rode a racing camel for 1.5 miles, reaching speeds of 25 miles per hour in a non-competi­tive trial run. 
By 2007, rulers of this energy­rich emirate say all camel racers will be mechanical. 
The developer, Alexandre Colot of the Swiss robotics linn K-Team, wasn't as impressed as the rest of the crowd. 
"I wasn't surprised," Colot said, as he walked toward the camel to unstrap Kamel and put him in a box for the night. ''I've seen him do that before, so to me, it's not something strange." 
Camel racing has deep roots in the traditions of Gulf Arabs and their survival in this barren and once poor and isolated land. Races are grueling contests of endurance and take place on oval courses as long as 10 kilo­meters. Betting is banned but lucrative purses are put forward by corporate or tribal sponsors. 
Spurring the robots' develop­mfmt has been vehement con­demnation from human rights groups of the sport's regular jockeys. Activists say there are about 40,000 boy joekeys, some as young as four, who are either bought from their parents or kidnapped from their home countries and taken to the Gull' to ride. Tho boys live in bleak conditions and are underfed before races to keep their weight down. 

In Qatar, ruling sheiks have responded to ealls for banning the use ol' boy jockeys by embracing robots as the best solution. 
Sheik Abdullah bin Saud, the Qatari of'fieial in eharge of t.he project, said the plan is to keep developing the robot until it is ready to take over. 
"Improve the speed, tlw weight, the aerodynamics, to reach the ultimate goal of com­pletely phasing out children usnd as jockeys," Sheik Abdullah said. 
The project began in .January last year, when K-Team sent a group to study eamnl races in Doha. 
"We came to Doha with only a di1-,rital eamera," Colot said. "We took detailed shots of the joe keys riding the eamels, to eapturn every possible movemnnt and reaction by the jockeys that oecurs during the raee." 

THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, April 20, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Catholic call to labor justice 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gi!loon 
ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumuk.kala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: jennifer Kenning 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Alrhoff 
CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 8USINESS 0FFICE (574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
ScENE DesK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe students ofrhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary:s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advenisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should 1M directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger, 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obsetver {USI'S 599 2-4000} is publbhed Monday through Friday ex<:ept during exam and vacation periods, A subscription to The Observer is $100 for one academic year; $55 fur one semester. 
The Obstrvtr 1$ published u: POSTMASTER 
02-\ South Dining Hall Send address oorr«:tions to; 
Notre Dame, IN 46556..0779 lbeObserver 
Periodical postage paid ar Notte Dam!! P.0.8ox.179 
and addition~ mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Nouc Dame, IN 465;6.;1779 
Tiu: Obse-rver is a member ofthe Associated Pr~. All .reproduction rights ar.t: resavd. 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Megan O'Neil Eric Retter Meghanne Downes Mike Gilloon Nicole Zook Ryan Keifer Karen Langley Scene Lisa Schultz Becca Saunders Viewpoint Illustrator Becca Rosswurm Graham Ebetsch Graphics Graham Ebetsch 

In his 1991 encyclical "The Hundredth Year," Pope John Paul II wrote, "As far as the church is ·con­cerned, the social message of the Gospel must not be considered a theo­ry, but above all a 
Kama ria 
basis and a motiva­
Porter
tion for action. Today more than ever, the 
Love in the 
church is aware that 
Ruins 
her social message will gain credibility more immediately from the witness of actions than as a result of its internal logic and consis­tency." The need to take our faith into the world, our teachings into our com­munities and our passions into our lives is one of many legacies we ought to heed as we mourn and remember the late pontiff. While examples of Christian social work and service are many, these stories go often unnoticed and uncelebrated. Last month, one such group of committed followers took their beliefs in justice and faith into their community and made history. 
For three years, students at Georgetown University organized alongside staff and faculty to have their administration adopt a living wage pol­icy. The Georgetown University Living Wage Coalition researched working conditions for service and support staff and found the wages did not support an adequate standard of living. The university paid its direct staff an aver­age of ten dollars an hour, while work­ers from subcontractors earned seven to eight dollars an hour. All these fig­ures fell below the living wage floor ­hourly wage calculated to support a family of four to cover living expenses including housing, food, childcare and transportation. Washington D.C. think tanks estimated the city's living wage floor at least 11 to 12 dollars per hour. Beyond low wages, many Georgetown employees worked multiple jobs ­combinations of full and part time ­leaving little to no time for their fami­lies or other activities like school or English as Second Language instruc­
tion. 
Student organizers recognized the need for a change in this situation. Georgetown-as a Jesuit Catholic institution committed to social justice and ethical teachings ought to have an employment policy that reflects those values. As Pope John Paul II and others proclaimed, our teachings, Gospels and beliefs must only be a starting point for a life and faith that does justice. If we believe·and strive to being about the kingdom of God on earth, we must be in constant engagement with social issues. Also, we must recognize and uplift the dignity of all people, especial­ly the poor and marginalized. Whether we recognize it or not, our lives are bound together though a web of rela­tionships. At Georgetown, student organizers saw the work of service employees as foundational to their ability to live and study at the universi­ty. They did not take for granted clean dorms, accessible meals in the dining halls and orderly classrooms each day. They put a face to that vital work. 
The Living Wage Coalition found a wealth of moral teachings on labor jus­tice from papal encyclicals and other religious interpretation texts. The Catholic Church has a rich tradition of speaking out for the rights of workers to just wages, the right to organize and humane working conditions. From Pope Leo XIII to Pope John Paul II, church leaders have spoken for worker justice. In the encyclical "On Human Work," John Paul II wrote, "The justice of a social and economic system is finally measured by the way in which a person's work is rewarded. According to the principle of the common use of goods, it is through the remuneration for work that in any system most peo­ple have access to these goods, both the goods of nature and those manu­factured. A just wage is a concrete measure -and in a sense the key one -ofthe justice of a system." Along with using moral teaching in their speech, student organizers integrated principles into their action. In March, over 25 students went on an indefinite hunger strike to support their cam­paign for just wages for Georgetown workers. Their nine-day expression of solidarity and active love for others compelled their university to adopt a Just Employment Policy. Now Georgetown University will ensure that service employees make at least 13 dollars per hour starting in July. Additionally by 2008, employees will make at least 14 dollars per hour and yearly pay increases based on rises in the cost of living. 
For those who follow Catholicism, there is much to do to be good neigh­bors and stewards of creation. I find hope in the community of people of faith formed during times of trial and celebration. The students at Georgetown serve us as a model of a faith that does justice and a community engaged in the problems of the world. Let us salute their victory and heed their example in our own community. The call to love is up most for our faith-based community and is only made real and valuable by working for justice, especially for those who are poor and struggling in this difficult world. 
Kamaria Porter is a junior history major. her column appears every other Wednesday. Contact her at kporter@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
What color should the 2005 "The Shirt" be? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''The whole world steps aside for the one who knows where he is going. 
anonymous 


THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 20, 2005 page 13 

Moving out, 
•


movtng on 
Tlw signili­

Greg

eanl~n of this 

Ruehlmann

artion rannot 
bn lost on 
FaithPoinl 

tlws11 who 
know NotrP 
Damn. Wn don't takn those steps, 
wn an~ told, until allnr we've 
hm~onw alumni. 
"Alumni"-that wrntched, wrotdwd word! "Alumni" always hintnd at something sinistor, and not just beeausn I livnd in Dillon I !all. It eonnotnd thn passagn of timn and tho condusion of some­thing nobody wantnd to eondude. A.:; an·undergrad, I would read with horror thos11 "Class Updatp,s" in thn back of Notrn Damn Magazinn: "llarold O'Shea, '50 of Minnnapolis is rntirnd and enjoys wood carving!" or "Jmmy Schmidt, 'SIJ is nxpm:ting her filth child!" 
I loath11d each of those entries for what it suggest11d about my futurn: that lwentually I would become one of thnrn. 
And so. lilr months artnr graduat­ing, I rnbnllnd. When I had to go to thn Dome, then, by God, I would usn the inside stairs. This was my protest, my last stand against harsh rnality. I felt I could evade the truth witli each sly trip up the inside stairs. ("Take that, Hngistrar's Ollice! Do you notice that I'm not taking thosn outsidfl stnps'! I Ia! Can you soe what an undnq..,rraduatn thing it is that I'm doing'!") 
Dnnial can't hL'it lilfiW11r. But, boy, can it lingnr. 
Wn lind oursnlvns again in that most paradoxical of soasons on cam pus. Frnsh life bursL.:; forth around us on bushns and in birds' nnsL.:;, prodaiming springtime's nnw bnginnings. And yet, we must admit thnrn is a snnsn of ending in tho air, a fep,ling that somnthing dnar to us is dosing iL.:; doors. For soniors especially, this sentimnnt is irwscapable. But thn tnmptation to ignorn it, or simply dnny it, is hard to rnsist. 
Thn !-,Tflmt tragndy of this time, hownvnr, is not tho innvitabln approach of graduation and good­hyns; rathor. it is thn popular rnfusal to accnpt it pnaeofully, to look back with apprndation, and to look liJrward with optimism. As Sorin roctor Fr. Jim King wisely obsnrves, "You came horn to leave lwrn, you know." lndnnd, we spend our timo at Notm Damn with an nnd in mind, if not in sight. It is only naturallilr that ond to come at last. Tlw lilrodous spnnd with whkh we wnnt through Freshman Orientation, that suprnmoly awk­ward blur, dispnllnd us of any IH>pos that our lillrr years would somehow pass slowly. 
For thoso poor seniors who still entm-tain the drnam of prolonging thn undeq..,rraduate experience, allow me to set the record straight: it can't be donn. Try as you might to ding to this plaen, it will not ding to you. I ean speak confidently of this, because I've worked here at the University sinen 1-,rraduating last May. It's amazing that in many ways, I think I've grown more by staying at my school for a year than if I'd just movnd to a big city with a bunch of friHnds. IIere I'm confronted each day not only by the fad that I have a regular job, but also that the place I called homn for so long ha..'i changed drastkally, pnrmanently. The faces that defined Notre Dame for me as an under~-,rrad have mostly disap­peared, heading oil" into new fron­tiers. Or, if they remain hero, I see daily that they fare quite well with­out my classmates and me. This is in some sense sad, but it is life. 
So where does this !nave us, who are preparing to say farewell? Christ said to pick up our cross and li>llow him. For many of us, the greatest cross to bear is release, accepting the ehangns in life that we cannot prevent and which spell an nnd to those unmistakabiH peri­ods of grace. We must embrace the changes and challenges that this ending presents to us! Why deny it? Why, in these fmal weeks undnr the auspices of the Dome, would we labor so hard to put this eurtain call out of our minds? 
In years to come, we will rellect on this place, our heads full of heavy longing and golden remem­brances of easier, bygone days. But we must treat our Notre Dame memories with the utmost grati­tude and not with bitterness merely because we can't continue making thHm. A friend of mine, now a sec­ond-year teacher, onee told me that his first few months of teaching were hell, not so much because he hated the profession, but because it "wasn't Notre Dame." This is the dillkult task we face: to carry this place with us always in our hearts, but also to answer Christ's eall to travel gladly beyond the comforts of this campus. Corne May, movfug out is a sure thing. Moving on, hownvnr, is something God leaves decidedly up to us. 
Greg Ruehlmann works in Campus Ministry. Though he thinks "What are you doing next year?" is a fair question. he resents it any­ways. 1/e'd aL-;o Like you to support the /Jillon Dude Auction today at 
5:30 on .')outh Quad. Email him at Ruehlmann.l@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Register and save a life 
There are currently over 3,000 patients suiTering from life threatening blood disor­dP.rs, such as leukP.mia and aplastic anemia, as well as cer­tain immune system and genetic disorders. On April 21st, lloward Hall invites the entire Notre Dame community to participate in the lifth annu­allloward Hall Bone Marrow Drive by registering in thfl National Marrow Donor Program (NMDP). 
The objective of the drive is to register students, faculty and staiT as potential donors. You could save tho life of one of these afllicted patients. In the four previous drives, multiple student donors have bmm con­taetnd as potential matches. The NMDP has saved many lives, including a sueenssful transplant for the late Vince Gurucharri (Notrn Damn '67), whose daughtor Anno (Notre Dame '03) foundnd this event back in 2001. 
I Inward I !all and the Univnrsity of Notrn Dame will sponsor the fifth annual Bone Marrow Drive on Thursday April 21st from 8 a.m. to 8 
p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center, Sorin and Dooley Hooms (1st lloor). Hegistering requires only a small blood 
U-WIRE 
College is for for111ing identities 
When we get to college, we're supposed to do two things. First, we're supposed to lind ourselves. Next, we're supposed to lind our other self, our other half-a Liz Suggs spouse. 
We're 
Baylor
expected to 
University
do these 
The Lariat 
two things 
because almost everyone does them. We grow up. Then, we get 
married. 
While there's ideally nothing wrong with this plan, it's the kind of thing that ean easily go awry. The problem is timing. College and life are all about timing. We have to hurry up and become whoever we're going to be for the rest of our lives in four structured years. That means everybody has to be ready for the same things at the same time. If you're not, you feel like you've missed the boat. 
Bcolumnist, copy editor strator for Viewpoint? 
at Vi~wpoint.t@nd.edu 
sample from donor candidates -far less than donating blood. By giving this sample, partici­pants enter and remain in the National Hegistry until age 61. You only need to register oncfl. By participating on Thursday, Iloward I I all will cover all reg­istration and blood-typing fees whieh would normally cost you $65. 
This year, Wfl hopn to regis­tor a record number of poten­tial donors and are strongly encouraging all those new to the Notre Dame community to take advantage of this opportu­nity to possibly save someone's life. Additionally, Iloward I I all would likn to extend a special invitation to students, stall" and faculty of non-Caucasian and mixed ethnicities. The national rngistry is in specialrwed of minority donors, because they are undermpresentnd in the national marrow bank. Matehes are often consistent with sharnd ethnic back­grounds, and the registry hopes to increasP. the chancns of finding matches for minority patients. 
The ultimate goal of the Registration Drive is to identify life-saving matches through secondary genetic testing and ultimately a surgieal proce-
As a result of this timing issue, even bigger problems sprout up. People pretend like they're ready for things they aren't. They ehangn to lit someone else's identity and lose their own. 
Or, on the opposing side, peo­ple graduate from college with a good head on their shoul­ders, an amazing personality, tons of friends but no marital prospects, and, for whatever reason, this is often viewnd as a negative thing. 
On the contrary, it's a ~-,rreat thing. Col!P.ge is the most self­ish time in our lives -in a good way. In college, every­body's schedule centers around themselves. We get to do what we want to do, only hang out with the people we like and be whoever we want to be. 
So, the quickest way to jeop­ardize this freedom and expe­rience is to change ourselves for someone else or settle for a bad fit. 
If we pair up too early, instead of becoming a whole person, wn may lind we're only half of a not-so-great pair. Two good halvos don't always makn a perfeet wholn. 
lienee, tho bottom line is lind yourself first. Don't get your timing mixed up. If you find who you think you want to spend th11 rost of your life with before you lind out what you want to spend the rest of your life doing, you may be in big trouble. Figure out who you are and what you are beeom­ing before pairing ofT. 
We all want to lind our soul­mate. Just make sure you know what your own soul is all about bnli~re searching ti~r someone else's. 
This column originally appeared in the April 1 9 issue ofThe J.ariat, the daily publi­cation at Baylor University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neccesarily those q{ The Observer. 
durn. At this time, however, candidatHs arn asked to take the first step by rngistnring in the bonn marrow drive and ini­tiating the procnss of helping a stranger or quicknning a fami­ly member's snarch liJr a potential match. We are asking you to help those eurrnnt and future patients by rngistnring, raising awarmwss on campus and incrnasing thnir ehancns of finding a donor! 
For mom information rngarding thn National Bonn Marrow Donor Program and donation eligibility guidolines, please visit www.marrow.org. 
This will bn 15 minutns of your day that muld truly makn tho dilli1n1ncn in prnsnrving somnonn nlsn's lili1. To prn-rng­istnr to bnconw a potnntial donor or to voluntnm· your time to work at the Drive, please visit http://www.nd.edu/-howa nil b1JnemarnJw/. 
Wn hope to sen you on Thursday! 
Natalie Bennett Caitlin McGinty juniors Howard I!all Bone Marrow Drive t:o-Comrnissiom·rs April19 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, April 20, 2005 
PLAY PREVIEW 

to capture all the favorite "Peanuts" 
By MARIA SMITH 

characters when they perform 
Senior StafF Writer 

"You're a Good Man Charlie Brown" 
this weekend. Happiness might be many things. This Broadway musical, based on Could it be money? Could it be the »'himsical scenes from Charles 
love? Schulz' famous comic strip, has Or could it, just maybe, be reliving become a favorite with many audi­
the life of a child through "You're a ences, and it is easy to see why. Little 
Good Man, Charlie Brown"? vignettes out of the daily life of Lucy, This is, perhaps, the hope of the Sally, Snoopy, Pig Pen and other 
Farley Hall Players, who will attempt favorites mirror the cartoon strip very well, and songs like "My New Philosophy" and "Suppertime" as well as the title track are great ringers for show choirs. The characters are sometimes even more endearing onstage than in the Sunday newspaper. Watching Charlie Brown think himself in circles, Lucy terrorize everyone around her and Snoopy pontificate on the meaning of being a dog can really add a new dimension to the comic strip. "You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown," as performed by the Farley Hall Players brings out some of the lovable aspects of the musical. The acting and set are particularly enjoy­able and flesh out the comic strip on which they are based very well. The performance has an extremely young cast, which is perhaps appro­priate. Most of the actors are sopho­mores and freshmen, with only one junior and one senior playing major roles. Several of the actors step into their roles well. Sophomore Brad Laney, who plays Charlie Brown, has a great antagonistic rapport with freshman Katie Elizabeth Nuss, who plays Lucy. The realm of childhood is a big departure from Laney's last role as a dour old doctor in February's per­formance of "Grand Hotel." 



singing numbers in the play. 

"[This role] was hard at first," Laney said. "But it's a kind of mind­set we all go back to, I think. Every night we fall right into it." 
Sophomore Katie Scarlett O'Hara, who played an aging ballerina in "Grand Hotel" earlier this semester, seems to have been born to play the role of a small child. O'Hara's per­formance as Charlie Brown's younger sister Sally is actually the most dynamic and entertaining in the show. 
"In three months I've had to un-age myself about 70 years," O'Hara said. "But I think all the 'Peanuts' charac­ters are ones everyone can relate to." 
Sophomore Mike Bogdan fits the role of the pretentious piano-playing Schroeder very well. It may be acci­dental that Bogdan resembles David Hyde Pierce, who plays the preten­tious piano-playing character of Niles from the hit sitcom "Frasier," but the resemblance is more than appropri­ate. 
Junior Eric Buell has generally con­fined himself to cameos and single performances, playing King Herod in the 2003 Musical Revue and Nazi #2 in "Bent" last semester. He has adjusted well to the larger role of the blanket-carrying Linus. 
"I've been sucking my thumb for months and going to class with my blanket," Buell said. ''I'm not acting that much -I'm really like a five­year-old. I'm just doing my thing." 
Sadly, the cast doesn't have the musical power to support some of the musical numbers. The dance routines are cute, but some of the musical numbers just aren't performed to their full potential. 
The Notre Dame stage may be a relatively new thing for most of the 

Nearly the entire cast of students play children characters play around while they load onto the sd 
cast, but it's old hat for director KC Kenney. Kenney has been involved with numerous music and drama groups during his four years on cam­pus, most extensively with the Farley Hall Players and the Pasquerilla East Musical Company. 
Kenney has wanted to put on "You're a Good Man Charlie Brown" since freshman year. He first per­formed "Happiness," the closing number, in the 2002 Musical Revue, but it took three years to bring the Wednesday, April 20, 2005 




TIM SULLIVANffhe Observer 
I young ages In "You're a Good Man Charlie Brown." Above, the 
ol bus. 
al to tlw stagn. y first din1cting nxperi­
• had my sharn of' elutl­
nny said. "But it's onn of' arding things I've donn 
f~. " 
1usiral or dramatic pnr­
"You're a c;ood Man, n" has henn a bonding r the east and crnw. ourse of' the past wneks has heeornn younger, 
n to lw likn tlw family I 
TIM SULLIVANffhe Observer 
, right, played by junior Eric Buell, spend most of the play try­harlle Brown a bit happier. 
hoped for," Kenney said. "That means a lot of fighting, but without killing each other." 
So if' you're headed for graduation and want a last whimsical glance into childhood. or if you just want to see some of' Notre DanHl's younger actors, head out to Washington Hall and show just how much you support Charlie Brown. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE 
page 15 

AnTostal hits campus 
ND spring tradition continues into 2005 
TIM Jason Laws, left, and Bill Andrichik participate Tuesday in "Big Wheel Racing," one of the many outrageous AnTostal events. Antostal kicked off last Saturday and continues through Sunday. 
Graphic courtesy of Student Union Board 
Wednesday, April 20 
2p.m. Big Red Chair & Mini Golf East South Quad Punt, Pass & Kick Qualifying Contest Fieldhouse Mall 8p.m. Late Night Grill North Quad 9p.m. Drive-in Movie "Billy Madison" North Quad 
Thursday, April21 
3p.m. Carnival South Quad and West Quad 8p.m. Comedian Jim Gaffigan Legends 10 p.m. Best of AcoustiCafe Legends 10p.m. Sub Movie "Finding Neverland" 101 DeBartolo 



Ken Jennings, center, "Jeopardy!" champion and celebrity, entertained the audience as well as students Mike Draz, left, and Eric Powers, right, on Monday night in DeBartolo. 
·Remaining events: 

• Friday, April 22 
12p.m. Recess and Unveiling of "The Shirt" West Quad and Hammes NO Bookstore 6p.m. Battle of the Bands Legends 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. Sub Movie "Finding Neverland" 101 DeBartolo 
Saturday, April 23 
4:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. Sub Movie "Finding Neveriand" 101 DeBartolo 9p.m. 
AnTostal Concert Legends 

Sunday, April 24 
Cubs Trip (tickets sold out) 


:~pagd6 
I I 
I 
------Th, Ob"'"" + CLASSIFIEDS W<dn"day, Apdl20, 2005 
====================================================================================================================================~ 
MLB 
Reds' four home runs not enough to top Cubs 
Devil Rays snap 11-game losing streak, throw Yankees into AL East cellar 
Associated Press grounder with runners on first­
and-third to· finish off his fifth 
CINCINNATI -Not even four save. Cubs homers were enough for "That's such a tough one to Kerry Wood in a city where he's lose," said Cubs reliever never lost. Glendon Rusch, who was limited 
Adam Dunn hit two solo to one inning because of a homers off Wood, and the strained groin. "Sometimes it's a Cincinnati Reds rallied for an cumulative bad day. Today is improbable 7-6 victory Monday one of them." night against a pitcher who is The Cubs hit four homers in almost always at his best when the first three innings ofi shell­Chicago comes to town. shocked starter Matt Belisle, 
"It's definitely not fun being who was muttering to himself down 4-0 to a guy like him, but on the mound as he jerked his when we got back to the dugout, head and watched one ball after it was exactly like it always is," another clear the walls. Dunn said. "We know we can score runs." Devil Rays 6, Yankees 
Derrek Lee hit the longest of Randy Johnson couldn't keep the Cubs' four homers, a shot the New York Yankees from that bounced off the batter's eye falling into a tie for last place in and out of the ballpark, as the AL East. Chicago went up 5-1 after three Eduardo Perez hit two home innings. In the past, that would runs off Johnson, Hideo Nomo have been a sure thing for pitched effectively into the sixth Wood, who is 10-0 in 12 career inning on three days' rest and starts in Cincinnati. the Devil Rays ended an 11­
Not this time. game losing streak at Yankee 
Wood was hampered in spring Stadium with a victory over New training by a sore shoulder and York Tuesday night. isn't yet back in form. He got a "This is the type of game little closer on Monday, but that'll give us a confidence remained winless in three starts boost," Devil Rays manager Lou with a 6.38 earned run average. Piniella said. "Hideo Nomo did 
''I'm pleased with way I threw an excellent job of pitching; we the ball, obviously not pleased played flawless on the field, rest. Nomo was replacing Mark bases," he said. "I guess I just league-leading seventh home with the results," said Wood, too." Hendrickson, who has inflam­hit that ball really well, but my run, sending the Chicago White who gave up eight hits in six Nomo and three relievers lim­mation in his left shoulder and career is not going to be hitting Sox to a 3-1 win Tuesday night innings. "I thought I had decent ited the Yankees to nine hits, will go on the disabled list home runs." over the Minnesota Twins . command, and my slider was . one night after they battered Wednesday. Making his third start of the Hernandez {2 -1) allowed at better than it has been this year. Tampa Bay for 20 hits and 19 "It wasn't really a concern to year, Backe {1-0) allowed three least one hit in every inning, Overall, it was probably the best runs. me," Nomo said of pitching orr runs and seven hits in seven walked one and hit a batter with I've thrown. Unfortunately it The Devil Rays' first win in short rest. "Last game I didn't innings. a pitch. Aided by two of didn't turn out the way I wanted New York since Sept. 14, 2003, pitch too much." He struck out eight, walked Chicago's three double plays, he it to." was the Yankees' fifth loss in six one and gave up a two-run squirmed out of several jams, 
Rich Aurilia's broken-bat, two­games-and dropped the AL East Astros 5, Braves 3 homer to Chipper Jones. .including two with the bases run single off Wood tied it in the champions to 5-9 -the same Willy Taveras wasn't sure how "I got extra energy after the loaded and one out. sixth and left him with no-deci­record as Tampa Bay. to act after hitting his first home run by Jones. I didn't "El Duque has his own way," sion. An overworked bullpen Johnson {1-1) has allowed five major league home run. think it was a home run and it White Sox manager Ozzie then let it slip away. homers over two consecutive "When I hit the ball I just made me a little mad. It gave Guillen said. "As long as this kid 
Jon Leicester {0-2) walked the outings for the first time in his started running and tried to look me extra energy. I thought it hit is healthy, he knows how to first two batters in the eighth career, according to the Elias professional," he said. below the yellow line," Backe pitch, he's going to compete and and hit Wily Mo Pena, loading Sports Bureau. Taveras connected in the sev­said. "You get tired, but that is he's going to get guys out. He's the bases. After Aurilia ground­"He pitched well enough to enth inning, and Brandon Backe where the mental part of the going to do everything in his ed into a third-to-home double win," said Yankees shortstop got his first win of the season to game comes in. You just have to power to keep his team in the play that kept it tied, Jason Derek Jeter, who made a key lead the Houston Astros over the keep grinding." game." LaRue doubled to the wall in error. "He just had a little prob­Atlanta Braves Tuesday night. Hernandez faced 28 hitters, center for a 7-5 lead. lem with Perez." Taveras hit only 15 home runs White Sox 3, Twins 1 12 of which reached base. But 
Kent Mercker {1-0) pitched Nomo {2-1) was pitching on in six minor league seasons. Orlando Hernandez got big he got tough when he had to two innings for the win. Da~ny three days' rest for the first time "It felt real good, but I'm not a outs when he needed them. and became the first pitcher in Graves gave up a run-scoring in 302 starts, the longest a home run hitter. I don't know Hernandez scattered 10 hits nearly 22 years to allow 10 or single in the ninth to Neifi Perez, starter has gone in major league what happened. I was just try­over six shutout innings and more hits in six or fewer innings but retired Jeromy Burnitz on a history without going on short ing to get on base and steal Paul Konerko hit his major and still not permit a run. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 4-5 bdrm,2 bath house in SB. Lots 4 bdrm house, 1.5 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask of room. Call Judy 574-298-6217. ba.Furnished.Family or 2 grad stu-WANTED FoR RENT about FREE studel)l rent program. dents. $900/mo + utilities. PERSONAL 
Blue & Gold Homes (574)250-7653. 2&3 bdrm houses close to NO. Close to NO. Roommate to share rent for my DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW $350/mo/person.Lawn service & 287-7189 or lv msg GO Braves! 2bdrm apt. 570-814-2716 or email: LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING appliances incl. 273-4889. mmurph21 @nd.edu SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 Beautiful suite Go Cubs 
FoR SALE 
LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS-S.B. AVE -605 ST. PETER CALL 5-bedroom house for rent available for graduation, ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED-532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 2005-06. football weekends How bout those new shower heads! ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT Close to campus. and all special events. 
NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY 6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK 105 Marquette Ave. 232-6964. Near NO. Pigtostal oink oink IRISH CROSSINGS Luxury homes SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER Reasonably priced. one block east of campus. Now MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAG-2 bdrm, 1 bath remodeled furnished NO alum owner/managed. The Blondin Harvard twins ... hot under construction! For more infer-ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006-ULTY ONLY. house close to NO, 574-271-7205 mation: Go to: 2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7-CALL BRUCE 876-3537. $700/mo. Guster www.lrishCrossings.com Email: 8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES 2844089,9-5pm; GREAT LOCATION: I rishCrossings@ gmail.com GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB-2,4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus, 703-7276217 after 5pm 522 Napoleon. Sixteen days till Troop 325 reunites 
SITE call234-9923, ask for Rod. 4blks from NO. 2bdrm New London Lakes Condo, walking WWWDOMUSKRAMER.COM OR Furnished 1-bdrm apt. remodeled home Is school out yet? distance to NO, 3 bedrooms, 2 CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234-www.andersonNDrentals.com Free laundry. No smokers, available 5/1 . baths, lake view, 2 car garage, pool, 2436 OR 574-315-5032. no pets. $600, Baseball is here completely remodeled $129,900 Furn houses on Navarre,Marion & On bus route, (219)629-5483. 
(574) 256-2198 or (574) 255-3930 Great 6-7 bdrm home available St. Pete Sis. avail 06-07. 233-9947. 2 milo ND. They're boys 
611/05. 350+utilities. NO Grad Student Brand name Queen pillowtop mat-Also very nice 3-bdrm available STUDENT RENTALS 289-9365. renting studio apt. for 05/06 year. yay pope tress set. New in plastic. Full war-NOW. $400 PER MONTH All utilities, 1 mile from NO. ranty. $185. 574-876-4474 Both Close to ND,W/0, ADT security, 2005-06 $250-300/mo. Fum. rooms. $400/mo You are sweaty 
on-site parking. phone/cable/DSL, WID, Country setting,10 mi to ND.Non-includes all utilities + Full mattress set with warranty. NO Internet Lawn service. smokers. Private cable TV+ everybody poops Unopened in Plastic. Sacrifice Canopy access. 2,3,4,5 bdrms. Avail.05/06. entrance,laundry,kitchenette,cable internet $145. 574-231-4522. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 Call315-3215 & util incl. 289-9365. 574-339-0582. is no longer regular 


Wednesday, April 20, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NHL 


Players' association, league still searching for resolution 
Concert of Sacred Music Tonight, 1OPM Tonight, 8 PM, Basilica COMO Lounge 


FAITHPOINT IDUI:l
Notre Dame Basilica Schola Topic: "Imitate God: Work Notre Dame Women's Liturgical Choir Hard, Then Rest"
Wednesday, April 20, 2005 
Lead Kindly Light: 
Prayers from the Campus Ministry Prayer Book 
-f-LIVE IT!!-X----.1 
You may have seen Courtney Eschbauch around campus. As a third year law student she is the Assistant Rector in Badin Hall, home of the Fisher Regatta Champs! She's also a member of the Women's Liturgical 
Come Holy Spirit, full the hearts of your faithful.
Choir, Basilica Schola, and cantor at the daily 5:15 PM Mass. As if that And enkindle in them the fire of your love.
weren't enough, Courtney helps teach RCIA on Sunday mornings and plans Liturgy for the law school community. 
Send forth your Spirit and they shall be created, and you will renew the face of the earth. 
In addition to sharing her faith through song, Courtney has been blessed with excellent people skills that 
allow her to minister one on one. In the future Courtney plans to combine her background in law with the 0 God, who by the light of the Holy Spiritstrong role the church has played in her life. She feels a strong call to be of service to the church. Ideally, instructs the hearts of the faithful, she will be a canon lawyer and work as the advisor to a Bishop, advising him on both legal and spiritual matters. 
grant that by the same Holy Spirit we may be truly wise 
Good luck and thank you for all you do, Courtney. We will miss you next year! 
and ever rejoice in his consolations. Through Christ our Lord. Amen. 
Fifth Sunday of Easter 
1st: Acts 6:1-7 2nd: I Peter 2:4-9 Gospel: john 14:1-12 
The distinction made Vatican Council, the Catholic Q&A attached to each: the ful would normally have only between a High Mass and a Mass that was celebrat­Solemn High Mass, the experienced either the High Mass Low Mass fell out of common ed was known as the What,s the Difference High Mass, and the Low or the Low Mass, as the requisite 
"Tridentine Mass," as it Mass. deacon and subdeacon needed
usage following the liturgical reforms of the Second Vatican came out of the Council Between a Catholic High A High Mass was one for a Solemn High Mass were Council (1962-1965). In 1969, of Trent (1545-1563). where all the major parts often hard to secure at the aver­
the Missal of Pope Paul VI, Many today know of this Mass and a Low Mass? of the Tridentine liturgy age parish. Mass only from the sto-Though such distinctions 
which contained the prayers were sung by the priest. used at the Mass, was promul­ries they hear from their parents 
A Solemn High Mass was a High are no longer made today, the gated and became the standard and grandparents: stories of Mass that was sung with the underlying idea of reserving more 
for usage among Roman-rite Mass in Latin, of the priest offer­assistance of a deacon and sub­elaborate celebrations for special Catholics throughout the world, ing the Mass with his back to the deacon. Finally, a Low Mass was feasts (such as Christmas even to this day. This Missal congregation, etc. Within this one where the priest recited all Midnight Mass or any of the 
removed the distinction context, a distinction was made the parts that were sung in a High Triduum I Easter liturgies) is still between these three modes of between three forms of the Mass, Mass, assisted by a server. practiced. celebration. depending on the degree of Unless they were visiting a large Send your questions to 
Prior to the Second solemnity (or elaborateness) cathedral or monastery, the faith-Perkins.26@nd.edu 
*Eucharistic Adoration (12-7 PM, COMO Chapel) ~ ~ 
*Eucharistic Adoration (12-7 PM,*Sant'Egidio Prayer Community 
COMO Chapel) ~ *Marriage Preparation Retreat 
~ 
(5:30PM, Log Chapel) en Q .. Q a:::Q a::: *Prayer from Around the World: Q (4/22-4/23, Moreau Seminary) *Vigil Mass (5 PM Basilica) 
*Concert of Sacred Music (see :::)
0 :::) Hindu Prayer (7 PM, 330 COMO) ­
above) a:::1-* Four:? (see above) l: u. ~ 
1-en 
~ 
*1 0 AM Mass (Basilica) *11 :45 PM Mass (Basilica) *Law School Mass (5 PM, Law ~ ~ 
C-M
c School Chapel) Q *Eucharistic Adoration (12-7 PM, Q *Eucharistic Adoration (12-7 PM, *MBA Mass (7 PM, Mendoza z COMO Chapel) en COMO Chapel) Campus Ministry
z LU 
:::) Faculty Lounge) 0 :::;) Main Office 319 CoMo en *Rejoice! Mass (9 PM, COMO 
:E 1-Retreats Office I 14 CoMo
Chapel) 

Associated Press 
NI\W YOHK-The Nlll. and playnrs' association returned to the bargaining table Tuesday and met for six hours, hoping to build momentum ofT 
talks that began  two  weeks  
earlinr.  
Negotiations  conterod  

around a now, hybrid concept -which addrnsses the rela­tionship betwenn player costs and lnague revenuns -that was first discussed during the last round of talks in Toronto 
on April 4. 
Tho idea contains an upper and lower salary cap that would float among the 30 teams depending on revenues. 
"While we continued to dis­cuss various issues relating to the concept that was intro­duced at our April 4 meeting, no substantive progress toward a new agreement was made," NIIL chief legal officer Bill Daly said in a statement. 
"The parties have agreed to arrange a more aggressive meeting schedule over the next several weeks in an attempt to move the process forward." 
The Nlll. has maintained that it prefers a link tying player costs to league rev­enues, while the union has mostly rejected that idea. Previous compromise discus­sions have failed to yield signs of progress toward ending the lockout that began· seven months ago. · 
Union senior director Ted Saskin said he was concerned that the NHL is not serious about developing new ideas. 

The meeting was attended by commissioner Gary Bellman and NHI.PA executive director Bob Goodenow. 
"I expect Bob and Gary will be speaking again soon to dis­cuss any next steps," Saskin said. 
Tuesday's meeting was the fifth bargaining session since commissioner Gary Bellman canceled the season in February. 
The Nlll. board of governors is set to convene Wednesday in New York. 
If talks continuo to fail, tho Nlll. might seek to have a labor impasse declared. 
If successful, the leagun could try to implement its own system and open training camps in the fall with replace­ment players. 
That was a major topic of discussion when the board of governors met on March l. 
It likely will be again when tho representatives from the 30 teams get back together Wednesday. 
1-7800 or http://campusministry.nd.edu 
Wednesday, April 20, 2005 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
CYCLING 

Armstrong 15th after first stage of Georgia race 

Associated Press 

MACON, Ga. Lance Armstrong took a safe approach in the first stage of the Tour de Georgia, spending Tuesday in a pack with his teammates, avoiding risk of injury and fin­ishing 15th. 
"We didn't go very fast," Armstrong said. "In fact, we went flat-out slow for most of the day. I was trying to stay out of trouble, and the guys did a good job staying out in front and keeping me out of the way." 
Armstrong, who won the 648­mile event last year, is using this race as a tuneup for what he said will be his final Tour de France this summer. 
The 33-year-old Texan, who won cycling's most prestigious event for an unprecedented sixth straight time last year, announced his retirement plans Monday in Augusta. 
Robert Hunter, a South 
African racing for the Phonak Hearing Systems of Switzerland, won the 128.8­mile leg in 5 hours, 4 7 minutes, 52 seconds. With several thou­sand fans lining the streets of downtown Macon, Hunter edged his front tire past Ben Brooks to earn the yellow jer­sey. 
The big crowd, most of whom strained to catch a glimpse of Armstrong, energized Hunter. 
"It's not any fun when you're racing for 200-plus kilometers unless you see someone out there," Hunter said. "It's really nice to see that." 

Each of the top 56 finishers was credited with times of 
5:47.52. Brooks, who races for the U.S. team Jelly Belly, and third-place finisher Michele Maccanti of Italy, also were credited a time of 5:47.52. 
"It wasn't a traditional kind of sprint," Brooks said of the fin­ish. "The hill makes it kind of hard. You've got to have good position. I had a good shot, but Robbie's a world-class sprinter." 
Dan Bowman of Farmington Hills, Mich., held the break for 90-plus miles to earn five sprint points, but he finished in 112th place. 
Five of Armstrong's seven Discovery Channel teammates, Jose Azevedo, Viatcheslav Ekimov, Tom Danielson, Jose' Luis Rubiera and Michael Barry, had the same time. 
It was difficult for Armstrong to gauge how he felt in his lengthiest competition since fin­ishing 28th in the Ronde of Flanders in Belgium on April 3. 
"I don't know," he said. "For the first day, and not being used to race pace, it was faster than you expect. The way they were accelerating on the circuit ­that kind of pace I'm not used to yet -but I remember being shocked at the speed of these circuits last year. Overall, I feel good." 
The six-day race continues 
Wednesday in Fayetteville and ends 122.7 miles later in the northwest town of Rome. 
Armstrong indicated the Georgia race could end his com­petitive career in North America, but he might consider another practice event in May to stay fresh for the Tour de France. 
In an 82.1-mile first stage last year, which began and ended in Macon, Armstrong finished in 28th place. He moved up two spots in the overall standings through the second stage before winning two legs on the third day. 
Tuesday's stage offered very little rise and fall in elevation, never passing 600 feet above sea level. Altitudes near Dahlonega on Friday reach 3,260 feet, and the race tops out at 4, 784 Saturday at Brasstown Bald, the highest point in Georgia. 
"The stage was safe today," Armstrong said.· "The circuits were safer than I remember last year, but not as fast as I remember." 
Floyd Landis, Armstrong's former longtime teammate, is the Phonak leader. This 121­man race is Landis' first in the United States since joining the second-year team. 
The Pennsylvanian took 16th place, which Armstrong thought was good for someone used to riding in cooler climates over­seas. The mercury hit 85 on the country roads outside Macon. 

-~--~----­

..--'1 
AROUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, April 20, 2005 
ITA Tennis Rankings Men's. Women's 

tnam team 
Stanford 1
1 Baylor 
Northwestern 2
2 Virginia 
Kentucky 3
3 Mississippi 
Vanderbilt 4
4 Illinois 
Southern Calilornia 5
5 Florida 
Georgia Tech 6
6 UCLA 
Georgia 7
7 Pepperdine 
Florida 8
8 Duke 
UCLA 9

9 Georgia 
Texas 10

10 Texas Tech 
Clemson 11

11 Kentucky 
Miami (FL) 12

12 Louisiana State 
North Carolina 13

13 Washington 
Bayolr 14

14 Texas A&M 
Duke 15

15 Oklahoma State 
Tulane 16

16 Southern California 
TCU 17

17 Wake Forest 
Tennessee 18

18 South Carolina 
Harvard 19

19 Tulane 
William and Mary 20

20 Mississippi State 
Calilornia 21

21 Stanford 
Brigham Young 22

22 California 
Washington 23

23 Texas Corpus-Christi 
South Carolina 24

24 Ohio State 
NOTRE DAME 25

25 Florida State 
Major League Baseball 
American League East 

tmun wcord pnrc. strnak  <~B  
Baltimore 8-5 .615 Lost 1  
Boston 8-5 .615 Won 5  
Toronto 8-6 .571 Lost 2  .5  
NY Yankees 5-8 .385 Won 1  3  
Tampa Bay 4-9 .308 Lost 4  4  
American League Central  
tmuu n•cord pen: . streak  GB  
Chicago Sox 9-4 .692 Won 1  
Minnesota 8-5 .615 Lost 2  1  
Detroit 6-7 .462 Won 2  3  
Cleveland 6-8 .429 Lost1  3.5  
Kansas City 5-9 .357 Won 1  4.5  
American League West  
team rneord pMG. streak  GB  
Oakland 1·1 .500 Lost 1  
Seattle 7-7 .500 Won 1  
LA Angels 1·1 .500 lost 1  
Texas 7-8 .467 Won 1  .5  
National League East  
tnarn rneord perc. stn-1ak  GB  
Washington 8·5 .615 Lost1  
Atlanta 7-6 .538 Won 1  1  
Florida 7-6 .538 Won2  1  
Philadelphia 7-6 .538 Won3  1  
NY Mels 6·7 .462 Losl2  2  
National League Central  
tnam rueord pore. streak  GB  
St. Louis 8-4 .667 Won 5  
Cincinnati 7-5 .583 Won3  1  
Chicago Cubs 6-7 .462 Lost1  2.5  
Houston 5-7 .417 Lost 3  3  
Milwaukee 5-8 .385 Lost 5  3.5  
Pittsburgh 4-10 .286 Lost 4  5  
National League West  
tnam rneord pore. streak  GB  
los Angeles 11·2 .846 Won 7  
Arizona 7-7 .500 Lost1  4.5  
San Francisco 6·6 .500 Lost 1  4.5  
San Diego 6-7 .462 Won 1  5  
Colorado 3-10 .231 Won 1  8  

around the dial 
MLB 

Cubs at Cardinals, 6 p.m., ESPN2 Indians at Angels, 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 

Bulls at Pacers, 7 p.m., ESPN Suns at Kings, 9:30p.m., ESPN 
CoMPILED FROM THE Ot~SERVER'S WIRE SERVtCES page 19 
MLB 

Associated Press 
BOSTON Tim Wakefield, the longest­tenured player on the Boston Hed Sox, agreed Tuesday to a $4 million, one-year contract exten­sion through 2006 that gives additional option years at the same salary as long as the team wants to retain him. 
The 38-year-old knuck­leballer is getting $4.67 million this year in the final season of a three­year contract. The 2006 salary is guaranteed as long as he doesn't finish this season on the disabled list due to an arm injury. 
If Boston exercises its option for 2007, the Hed Sox get an option for 2008, and if the team exercises the option for 2008, it also gets an option for 2009. The additional options continue until the Red Sox decline one. 
In eaeh year of the deal, Wakefield would earn bonuses of $50,000 per start from 11-20 and $75,000 for each addition­al start after that. 
"It takes a lot of pres­sure off me to be able to know that I'm going to be here for a long time and I can just go out there and do my job," said Wakefield, who is off to a strong start in his 11th season with the llnd Sox. 

General manager Theo Epstein said he wasn't aware of any similar eon­tracts in baseball. 
Wakefield's deal "demonstrates that both sides really wanted to keep Tim here "for as long as possible," Epstein said. "A contract such as this that has a lot of dub options going forward can reward Tim for his per­formance and reward the club by keeping him here in a Hed Sox uniform." 
The pitcher stressed that he wants to retire with Boston and wants to piteh for as long as possible. 
Other knuekleballors havn pitched sucenssfully well into their 40s. 
If the Hod Sox ehost~ not to exerdse their option at any point, Wakefield eould become a free agnnt. 
"If that situation arose, I don't know what might happnn then," he said. 
Wakefield signed with the team in 1995 while Dan Duquette was general managnr. Wakefield has moved baek and forth 
-

from the bullpen to the rotation. lie is a six-time finalist for the Hoberto Clemente Award, a com­munity snrvice award pre­sentnd by the commission­er's orticn . 
IN BRIEF 
Ethiopian Negussie wins 
Boston Marathon 
BOSTON -It didn't take llailu Negussie long to realize there isn't much of a future in genna, the Ethiopian sport he played before dedding to run marathons. 
Negussie was playing tho stick-and­ball game in his hometown seven years ago when someone challenged him to a race of about 250 yards. 
"I didn't know that I was fast," Negussie said Tuesday. "I knew that I wanted to run marathons. The Ethiopians are known for the long distances, so I wanted to go into the field." 
Negussie proved that Monday when he won the 109th Boston Marathon in a wind-and heat-slowed time of 2 hours, 11 minutes, 45 seconds. The victory was ·Ethiopia's first in the men's race since Abebe Mekonnen won in 1989 and just the second by a non-Kenyan in 15 years. 
"After 16 years, it is a big win for the people," said Elias Kebele, who works for Negussie's manager and serves as his interpreter. Congress to hold NFL 
stermd hearing 

WASHINGTON -The congression­al committee that investigated steroid use in baseball will turn its investiga­tion to the same problem in football. The panel said Tuesday it will ask NFL officials and union representa­tives to testify at a hearing next week. 
"A public review of the NFI;s strat­egy for combatting steroid use marks the next step in our investigation," said Hep. Tom Davis, chairman of the House Government Heform Committee. "Examining the effective­ness of the NFL's policy is a key part of understanding why 500,000 high scho?l ~.tudents today have tried ster01ds. 
Invited to the April 27 hearing are NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue; Gene Upshaw, vice president of the NFL Players Association, and Harold Henderson, the NFL's executive vice 
pr;~i~e~~;re:~~~~~d~~~~ires for NBA draft HOUSTON -Top-rated high school shooting guard Cnrald (;renn said Tuesday he has applied for early entry into the NBA Draft. The 19-year-old Green, a 6-l'oot-X senior at Houston's Cull' Shores Academy, hasn't hired an agent so can withdraw from the draft before June 21 and retain his college eligi­bility. I le signed with Oklahoma State in November. "My decision is based on what was best for me and my future," said Green, who is ranked the nation's top shooting guard by recruiting website Rivals.com. ''I'm weighing all of my options, but I have still have plenty of time." llis father, Gerald Green Sr., said they are working with an adviser to determine his draft position. "If he's a lottery pick, it's pretty much safe to say he'll be N.BA­bound," his father said. 

.. 
r 
page 20 
TENNIS 

·Agassi, Roddick advance on clay 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON -Andre Agassi received a court violation for smashing his racket and then rallied in a second-set tiebreak­er to beat Michal Tabara 6-2, 7-6 (5) Tuesday night in a first­round match of the U.S. Men's Clay Court Championships. 
The top three seeds in the tournament advanced Tuesday as No. 1 Andy Roddick beat qualifier Matias Boeker 6-2, 6­3, and defending champion and third-seeded Tommy Haas eliminated Kristof Vliegen 6-3, 7-5. 
The second-seeded Agassi broke his racket after the first point of the tiebreaker when Tabara hit a forehand winner. 
"It was probably a healthy combination of reasons," Agassi said of his outburst. "I was really frustrated through most of the middle of the sec­ond set. I had some 0-30 chances and never felt I stepped up." 
After breaking his racket, Agassi gave it to a young fan. "I've had better moments," Agassi said. 
Agassi fell behind 1-4 in the tiebreaker and he made it 5-5 with a service winner. He gained match point on Tabara's forehand error and Tabara's backhand sailed wide to end the match. 
Agassi struggled most of the match, coming up with crowd­pleasing shots and then hitting unforced errors. 
In the sixth game of the sec­ond set, Agassi had four dou­ble-faults, faced two break points and hit a perfect lob and a pinpoint drop shot in finally holding serve.' · 
"Day after tomorrow should be a lot better," Agassi said. Roddick needed just 58 min­

-
utes to beat Boeker. 
"I played well considering it was for the first time in a tour­nament match in three weeks," Roddick said. "I moved pretty well and' sneaked out a couple of points." 
Boeker, playing against a top 10 player for the first time, was shaky at the beginning and had his biggest moment when he won seven of the first eight points of the second set and broke Roddick in the opening game. 
Boeker then took a 40-0 lead in the second game before Roddick broke back. Each play­m; held until the eighth game, when Roddick broke on Boeker's errant backhand. 
Hoddick ended it quickly in the ninth game with three aces and a service winner. 
"I think I was more anxious and nervous at the start," Boeker said. ''I'd played a cou­ple of sets against Andy and so I knew what to expect. I'm not too used to these situations. I had a chance to give him a match a couple of times in the second set." 
Boeker, ranked 175th in the world, thinks the experience of playing Hoddick will be a bene­fit. 
"It's always going to help," he said. "You feel more confident when you play in the smaller tournaments." 
Roddick will play Robby Ginepri in th.e second round. 
Haas fell behind 1-3 in the second set but he broke Vliegen in the fifth game and again in the 11th. 
"He started to go for more shots in the second set," Haas said. 
"He played some good shots. He broke me but I broke back and in the end I hit some pretty good shots to win." 
The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, April 20, 2005 
NBA 

Shaq ready for postseason play 
All-star center to sit out Heat's final two regular season games 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Shaquille O'Neal's bruised right thigh will keep him out of the Miami Heat's final two regular-season games, but the team expects him to be ready when the playoffs open this weekend. 
Before Tuesday's game, the Heat placed O'Neal on the injured list and activated rookie Dorell Wright. 
The decision to rest the All­Star center wasn't unexpected since Miami, which wrapped up the top seed in the Eastern Conference playoffs two weeks ago, has nothing to tangibly gain from Tuesday's home game against Charlotte or Wednesday's finale in Orlando. 
The Heat will open the best­of-7 East quarterfinals at horne either Saturday or Sunday, against Cleveland, Philadelphia or New Jersey. 
"We know what he's going to do when playoff time comes," Heat guard Dwyane Wade said. "He's going to be the Shaq no one in Miami has seen yet. We're not worried about that at all." · 
O'Neal, who didn't partici­pate in the team's shootaround Tuesday morn­ing, hasn't spoken with reporters since getting hurt in 
Sunday's  84-80  win  over  
Indiana. He  was  kneed by  
Pacers  forward  Jermaine  

O'Neal while defending a drive to the basket, and left just before halftime of that game. 
"He's getting treatment. We expect him to be ready for the weekend," Heat coach Stan Van Gundy said. 
O'Neal -whose Miami jer­sey was the league's top seller this season, league officials 

to Serve you Better! 
Your Saint Mary's Banking Center has moved and is now 
open for business in the new Student Center, offering you 
the conwnience ofa full-service bank right on campus. 
Our location may have changed but our staffis the same ­
friendly, knowledgeable, and ready to provide you with the 
personal service you've come ro expect from lst Source. 
Stop by our new location tor the Grand Opening Celebration on April 21st and be sure to enter our prize drawing. We look forward to seeing you there. 
Winners selected rJY tonr.lorn '1r<\Win!;}on 04121/05. No putOwse ll€(es5ary \0 enter Nef!d not be present to win. Must b>" 18 years of age or older to enter. Employ--ees o! 1st Soutee Corporation, its ><.ibs;dtanes aM thew •rnmed.atl? tanw1es are nm e!ig;bli? 
hours M-F • 10-5 


said Tuesday-averaged 22.9 points and 10.4 rebounds this season, his first with the Heat. 
He missed three games ear­lier this month because of a stomach virus, and has played only 85 minutes since April 3. Teammates said they would rather see O'Neal rest and be fully ready for the playoff grind. 
"It's all about the big fella," forward Udonis Haslem said. 
"He's opened a lot of doors for us this year." 
Alonzo Mourning, who played 18 minutes in the sec­ond half of the win over Indiana, was expected to start at center. 
"Shaq's not going to play, so that's a big change in the rota­tion," Van Gundy said. "But we do want basically everybody to play some and have a comfort level going into the playoffs." 
8 
. Hall 
Wednesday, April 20, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
TELEVISION -NFL 
Era ends as Monday Night Football moves on 
Network will need to find a way to replace 
primetime show 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -It really shouldn't mattor that much, yot sonwhow it does. Tlwre will still bn football on Monday night, but now that "Monday Night Football" is moving from not­work TV to bask cable, evory­lhing has changed. 
Dick Wwrsol was thinking about thai., ouphorie though he was aftnr nngotiating thn deal lhal would moan tho nnd of tho franchiso his Jato boss, Hoono ;\rlodgn, tlovolopod. · 
"In my happinnss that the primn-timn broadcast is moving to NBC, I eouldn't help but think how sad Hoone would be at Lhis point," said Eborsol, ehairman of NBC Sports. 
Emotion, though, doesn't go far in the television business. Numbers are what count, and it's the numbers that convinced ABC that it was finally time to do away with an institution that once changed the way America spent its Monday nights. 
The network was losing money and viewers, and even gimmicks like comedian Dennis Miller and sideline personality Lisa Guerrero eouldn't help stem the tide. 
Still, the gamble Arledge took in 1970 will have lasted 36 years by the time "Monday Night Football" takes a victory lap this final season on ABC. It is seeond only to "60 Minutes" in network longevity, surviving from the early days of the bom­bastie lloward Cosell to the cur­rent musings of John Madden. 
Football now moves to ESPN on Monday nights, while NBC gets the Sunday night game ESPN now carries. Meanwhile, ABC will likely try to clone its "Desperate Housewives" fran­chise to eompete in a time slot it 
STORAGE SPACE 
Four Month Special, May-August For Notre Dame Students S'xlO' --$149+deposit lO'xlO' --$199+deposit 
call247-7805 
Close to Notre Dame and 

Attention Students! SUMMER WORK 
• 
Excellent Pay 

• 
Flexible schedules 


• 
Customer sales/service 

• 
No exp. needed-will train 

• 
Immediate Openings 

• 
All ages 17+ 

• 
Conditions apply 



Apply Now, Start After Finals! 
CALL 273-4878 
once ruled. 
Before "Monday Night Football" fades from the nation­al consciousness, though, take some time to remember what it once meant. 
It was 1970, the same year Apollo 13 made its fateful voy­age to the moon, and the first 747 new aeross the Atlantic. Biehard Nixon was president, the war was raging in Vietnam, and if you wanted to wateh tele­vision in America you had three options: ABC, CBS or NBC. Cable was in its infancy, and the idea of an all-sports network like ESPN was still years away. 
The World Series was played by daylight, television sports was still mostly a weekend alTair, and Ed Sullivan was still doing his Sunday night show. 
That all began to change on Sept. 21, when ABC aired a game between the New York Jets and Cleveland Browns. Hmnotn control was still a nov­elty, but anyone looking for an alternative to the lineup of 

Wednesday, April 20th 
Baseball vs. Purdue "----·---"'~·····> 6:05pm @ Coveleski Stadium 
•Sea 
of green! Wear green to the game to show your Irish spirit! 

•For 
tickets call the Silverhawks 


ticket office @ (574) 235-9988 TICKETS $3 FOR STUDENTS WI ID 




Graduation Weekend: Your reservation is waiting. 
Start your graduation celebrations someplace where 
MISHAWAKA. IN. 

you do not need to hove your hand stomped to get
258.9999 

327 Union Street, Mishawaka bock into the party. Your parent's will thank you! 
"Mayberry H. F. D," "The Doris Day Show" and "The Carol Burnett Show" on CBS could got out of the easy chair to chango the channel. 
"Monday Night Football" stumbled at first. Crities hated Cosell at the outset, blasting his "tell it like it is" persona, and advertisms wondered how the strange colleetion of talent in the booth would mesh with tlw actual game. 
It wasn't long, though before people began to plan their Monday nights around the games. On the West Coast, they rushed home from work to watch. On the East Coast, thny stayed up past midnight and often arrived at work latn the next day. 
With a game to look forward to at night, the !irst day of the work week didn't seem all that bad anymorn. 
By the end of the first season, MNF was the third-highest rated show in the country. In the second season, it was lirst. 
The games weren't all that memorable for the most part, and when they were real dogs, Cosell, "Dandy" Don Meredith and Frank Gifford simply worked harder. Cosell brought guests into the booth for inter­views who had nothing to do with football, and took delight in the thought that he was intel­lectually superior to Meredith and Gifford. 
On one sad Monday night in December 1980, it was Cosell who informnd the nation that .John Lennon had been shot and killed in New York City. 
As the years went on, though, Monday night wasn't so spndal anymorn. Tho NFL sold ESI'N a Sunday night package, and MNF now had to cornpt~tP against a hundred or so cable networks for the audioneo it once took for granted. 
At its peak, nearly half of all Amerkan houst~holds with tlwir sets on worn tunod in to thn show's most watched ganw over, a Doeornber 11JX5 matehup between prnviously unbeaten Chicago and Miami. Last yoar, only one in nine American households had "Monday Night Football" on tlw 
Silt. 

Those numbers are good on cable, but don't pay the hills for the top four notworks. lronieally, a sports network that didn't exist until MNF's 1Oth season on air eamn up with a bid of $1 .1 billion for the Monday night games. 
"Who would have thought 25 years ago we'd have 'Monday Night Football,' an American institution, on ESPN'!" asked George Bodenlioimer, president of both ESPN and ABC Sports. 
The question now is what ESPN will do with the games. Madden and AI Miehaels tedmi­cally work for tho same compa­ny and would likely be avail­able, but Bodenheimer said no plans have been made to fill the broadcast booth just yet. 
N• 

Now taking reservations for Graduation Weekend Dinners: Thursday, Friday and Saturday from 5pm to Midnight. 
www.UnionStationMishawaka.com 
Softball vs. Akron 3 and spm @ Ivy Field 
•Early fans will receive nesting •First 250 fans receive a free dolls sponsored by Papa Johns Krispy Kreme doughnut! 
FREE ADMISSION WI STUDENT ID 
Baseball vs. Valparaiso 6:ospm @ Frank Eck Stadium 
Vicit \JII\JII\JII nntrArl~m,.nrnmntinnc::.rnm fnr mnrP infnrm~tinn :=~ntt futurP oivPawav!!;l 
-



page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, April 20, 2005 
MLB 
Police seek misdemeanor charges against fans 
Yanks' Sheffield meets with baseball officials to discuss incident 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -New York outfield­er Gary Sheffield isn't sure whether he wants to press eharges against two fans who were involved in a scuffle with him during a game last week at fenway Park. Boston poliee already have made up their minds to do just that. 
Sheffield met Tuesday with ollieials from the baseball eom­missioner's office, and Boston police filed applieations for mis­demeanor criminal charges against the two fans -one allegedly made contaet with the outlielder as he attempted to get the ball ncar the right-field wall and the other tossed a beer at him. 
A decision on possible disci­pline by the commissioner's otnce against Sheflield was not expected until Wednesday at the earlier. 
Police asked a elerk magis­trate to deeide whether a disor­derly eonduet eharge is war­ranted against the fans, aecord­ing to Officer John Boyle, a department spoke!:)man. 
Boyle wouldn't identify the two fans, but Bed Sox oflicials have revoked season tickets from Christopher House, a 
-
Bostonian who appeared to make contact with Sheffield while he was chasing down a ball in the right-field corner of Fenway Park. 
The team also banned a fan who spilled beer on Sheffield from buying tickets this season. The Red Sox did not release the fan's name. 
The charge, being a disorderly person and disturbing a public assembly, is a misdemeanor. 
"I just want to see it played out first. I'm not going to make any judgments first," Sheffield said in New York after meeting with Bob Watson, baseball's vice president in eharge of discipline, an attorney for Major League BasPball, Yankees chief operat­ing officer Lonn Trost and Sheffield's agent, Rufus Williams. 
The meeting lasted 20 min­utes and the men watched the replay about live times. 
"[They asked] What was my reaction? What was I thinking? And I told them what I was thinking," Sheflield said. 
He credited a meeting in spring training where players were told how to react in cer­tain situations -with an emphasis on avoiding interac­tions with fans. 
"It was more emphasized after the NBA," he said, refer­ring to the brawl between Detroit Pistons fans and mem­bers of the Indiana Pacers on Nov. 19. 
Sheffield was satisfied that baseball understood "that I lis­tened to the meeting we had in spring training and I set the example for others." 
It wasn't immediately clear whether court officials at Boston Municipal Court have scheduled a date for a hearing for House and the other fan. If a clerk magistrate decides that criminal charges are warranted, the two fans would appear before a judge. 
House, in a statement issued Monday through his attorney, David T. Norton, said he had "no intention" of striking Sheffield and that he does not bnlieve he made contact with the outfield­er. Sheffield said he was hit in the face. 
A message left at Norton's oflice was not returned Tuesday. 
Of House's statement, Sheffield said: "l-Ie has the right to feel the way he feels and I ~avP;, the right to feel the way I feel. 
On the play in question last Thursday, Sheffield was running along the 3-foot high right-lield fence, chasing a hit by Boston's Jason Varitek, when House reached over it with a sweeping motion and appeared to make contaet with the player. 
Sheffield pieked up the ball, made a shoving motion toward House, then threw the ball to the infield. He then turned toward House but did not touch him. A security guard jumped over the wall and stood between House and Sheffield. 



Wednesday April 20, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NFL 
Redskins trade for Broncos' pick 
rwrback Phillip Buchanon and might trade a lowor-round
Washington has No. 
a socond-round snlnetion. pick for Buchanon, but that 9 and No. 25 choices The reaction was terse from no deal was imminent. vicn prnsident of football In essenco, Tuesday's stato­in Saturday's draft opnrations Vinny ment was a Corrato. signal to the
"We'll consider 
"That is not rest of' the Assodouec.l Press trun." Corrato said anything, but no leagu1~ that ASIIBLIHN. Va. -A day of in a statomont one has presented the Hedskins m ixod signals from tlw roloasnd by tho do not consid­
a compelling
Washington Hodskins ondod tnam. "We arn not nr Buchanon with an urwxpnrt.Pd twist: a trading that piek." scenario." worthy of a tradP thai lnav•~s tlw I.Pam Cnrrato's words f'irst-round with two pirks in thn first worn a surprisn. piek. Bu­
Joe Gibbs 

round of' Saturday's NFL Thoy wont bnyond chanon has
Redskins coach and
Draft. quashing tho said he is 
president

Paying a hPI'ty prico f'or a Buchanon story unhappy in shorl-tnrm gain, thn l!odskins and rulnd out any Oakland, on Ttwsday arquin~d tlw No. tradn whatsotwor wants a 2!i ovnrall pil:k from the for the No. 9 solection, an trade, and Washington does­I>PnVPI' Broncos. In nxchango, overroaetion that had to be n't want 'the price tag to go Washington gavP up its third­elaril'iod later in tho day by too high. round solnrtion (No. 7(J ovnr­coach and team pn~sidPnt Jon Hegardless, tho trade with all) in this yPar's draf't and Cibbs. Denver would seem to damp­pirks in tlw first and f'ourth "Hight now, wo'vo had no en any possibility for a rounds in 21HJ(J. discussions with anyone Buchanon deal, given that the 
Tlw tradP allows the about trading away the ninth Hedskins can now obtain both 
I!Pdskins to takn c:aro of' both piek," Gibbs said. "Are we a receiver and a cornerback of tlwir most prossing rwods considering any options we in the first round. The top -rorrwrbark and rncnivnr -arn prosonted with'? Yes. We'll draft prospects from both i II 0 n n a l't(~ r n 0 0 n t hiS considor anything, but no one positions have visited Saturday. has presented a Hedskins Park in recent Washington holds eompnlling sce­w1~eks. tho ninth and "Right now, we've nario." The Hedskins need a cor­2[Jih picks, with had no discussion That's not to nerback to replace Fred tlw n.~xibility to say the Heds­Smoot, who departed during
with anyone about 
tradn up or down kins weren't free agency, and a receiver is to gnl. thn playnrs trading away the interested in a priority because both tlw tnam has tar­ninth pick." Buchanon. An Laveranues Coles and Hod gc~tnd. official within Gardner requested trades. Oddly, thn day the league, Coles was sent to the New
Joe Gibbs 

bngan with a speaking on York Jets for Santana Moss, rnport suggnsting Redskins coach and condition of while Gardner is still on the tho Hndskins president anonymity, told market. might not havo the Assoeiated Also Tuesday, the Hedskins any pit:ks at all in Pn~ss that the re-signed Tim 1-Iasselbeck, tho first round. The team has discussed a possible their lone remaining restrict­Washington Post, in Tuesday's trade for Buchanon in recent ed free agent. llasselbeek is nditions, rcportnd that. team days, but the official said expected to be the third­was discussing a tradn that none of the scenarios involved string quarterback again this 
would sond the No. 9 pick to Washington's lirst-round pick. season behind Patrick tlw Oakland Haiders for cor-The offidal said the Hedskins Hamsey and Mark Brunell. 
. 
"II!··
-I ,_j:~ -

Buchanon traded 
away to Houston 
chief' Michael Lombardi to
Cornerback criticized 
oxpross his desire to go Plse­Raiders'front office wlwrn. 
"The way I am feeling about at last season's end thn Haidors, I am not happy,"' Buchanon said. "I am just not Associated Press happy with thn organization right now. I am looking for­
ALAMEDA, Calif. -The ward to a possible tradn with Oakland Haiders trad1Hl dis­somebody else." gruntled corner-A nwssagn lnft back Phillip on Buchanon's
"J am just not

Buchanon to the c e II p ho rw w n n t Ilouston Texans happy with the unrnturrwd. on Tuesday for /Raiders/ Tlw Haidnrs two draft picks. also an~ looking
organization right 
An NFL source to dnal f'our-tinw 
" 

with knowledge now. Pro Bowl eorrwr­of the deal, bad Charles speaking on eon­Woodson. who
Phillip Buchanon 

clition of signod a $1 O.!i 
Texans cornerback

anonymity, said million tnndnr in 
Oakland would FPbruary as receivn a second-round and Oakland's franchise playnr. third-round pick in this week­Woodson, also thn Baidors' 
end's NFL draft. franc:hisn player last season, 
The teams hadn't ofTicially will receive a 20 JH~reent raise announced the swap as of over last year's salary of' rwarly Tuesday night, but the Haidors $H.H million. had been trying to trade Buehanon has I I earner Buchanon in recent weeks. interceptions, including four The team talked to the returned for touehdowns, in 3(J Washington Hodskins about games. lie has averag•nl 11 Buchanon. yards per punt rdurn with 
Buchanon, the Haiders' lirst­three Tl>s in thnw NFL sea­round pick in 2002 out of sons. Miami, publicly scrutinized the Last snason, Buehanon had organization just four days 50 taeklns and thrno intereep­before Oakland (5-11) ended tions, one for a Tl>, in 14 another disappointing season games. lie missed the final two with a home loss to games with a bruisod tailbone Jacksonville. The Haiders selected 
At the time, Buchanon said Buchanon with the 17th over­he spoke with team personmll all piek in 2002. 
:_:__Write for sports. Call1•4543. 

Please join us for another evening of Hindu centering prayer, 
Thursday, April 21, 2005 
330 Coleman-Morse 
7-7:45 p.m. 

E>..perience anotber ez;enin<-{!_, t?f llind11 prt!yer and meditation as part ~/a .rtrit'.f exploritiJ!, the helir!fs rmd pmt'lice.r ~/tbe JJJor!d'.r J;reatj~lit/J tradition.r: 
. "An Evening of Prayer from Around the World" 
'rpon.rored f;y: 
Camp11s :Viinistry 
lnternation.zl Studmt _r,.,;;,-,.s and ActiT>ities 
Indian Studmt -f_,·.rod<Jtion 
ND ld11.dim StNdtlll .·-1uociatitm 
GmdutJto Student l 'nion 
Wednesday, April 20, 2005 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles record falls to 4-9 vvith loss to Calvin 
Saint Mary's can no longer earn a bye in the MIAA tournament 
By PATRICK MCCABE 
Sports Writer 
Calvin beat Saint Mary's, 8-1, Tuesday in Grand Rapids, Mich., dropping the Belles to 4-9 (1-4) and consigning them to the lower half of the league stand­ings. The loss increases the diffi­culty and rigor of the Belles' con­ference tournament draw, cost­ing them the conference's fourth seed and the accompanying first­round round bye. 
The Belles now must play the maximum number of matches in the tournament and face rested opponents in later rounds. 
Despite these setbacks, the Belles are focused on intangible, non-statistical gains and the development of their young core. 
"It was a long day," co-captain Kristen Palombo said. "But ever);one felt better about the way they played today [than pre­vious matches]. We finally played a match in good conditions. There was hardly any wind; the weather was perfect. It was a good experience for our team and hopefully gave us some con­fidence." 
Calvin's thorough, crisp play 

led to some lopsided wins, testi­
fying to its deep veteran lineup's 
prowess and magnifying the 
Belles' raw play. 
"They were really consistent," 
Palombo said. "They didn't give 
us anything and fought every 
point. A lot of players on our 
team still think we're a solid 
team, but they're still learning. 
We're still making mistakes and 
committing too many unforced 
errors. 
"It's frustrating to play a good 
point and strike a great winner, 
but then we'll dump a ground­
stroke into the net or double­
fault on the next point. We need 
to back-up good points." 
Nonetheless, the Belles man­
aged to scrap with the Knights in 
a pair of matches. Palombo won 
her No. 1 singles match 7-5, 7-6 
(7-1) and the No. 3 doubles lost 
in three sets. 
"It was a really good experi­ence for them," Palombo said. "Of course, they wanted to pull it out. But they had never been in a . situation like that before, so now they know for the future what it 
takes to win it next time." 
The Belles intend to rebound 
quickly from the loss. 
"We play Alma and Bethel next 
week and hope to beat them," 
Palombo said. "We want to enter 
the tournament confidently." 
Contact Patrick McCabe at pmccabe@nd.edu 

KELLY HIGGINSfThe Observer 
Sophomore Tara O'Brien, left, returns a shot in a doubles match against Hope on April 7. 
FooTBALL 

Hoyte, Quinn new captains 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sporrs Ediror 
Irish coach Charlie Weis named Brady Quinn and Brandon Hoyte the 2005 Notre Dame football captains Tuesday, a system different from the one the Irish were accustomed to in previous years. . 
Under former coach Tyrone Willingham, captains were named on a game-by-game basis. This season, Quinn will be the Irish offensive captain and Boyte will be the defensive captain for the entire year ­positions voted on by the Notre Dame players. . 
In addition, there will be a rotating special teams captain. Whoever stands out the most to the Notre Dame coaching staff in a given game will be the spe­cial teams captain for the fol­lowing week. 
"When you first come in here, especially when you come in here new -but it's true every year -I think it's really important to understand that on Saturdays coaches aren't out on the field," Weis said. 
"It really comes down to players calling the situation on the field and going ahead and executing. I think that it's real­ly important to me personally that we have our leaders of our team who have risen to the position of leaders on our team kind of take some of that responsibility on their own shoulders." 
Brandon Hoyte was honored to receive the captain position, expressing how much it means to him personally . 

.~.;.,.·:...· }. ·: } _,·· 
,;...,.~-;.ft, ~~ ;+'" 
y
s 

"First and foremost, it's just a 
·privilege," Hoyte said. "It's something that every kid who dreams of playing football for Notre Dame wishes that he can achieve, and I'm just ·very for­tunate to be put in this situa­tion." Quinn echoed Boyte's senti­ments. "I don't think there is a big­ger honor [than] when your peers, people around you, are able to put you in a position where you are in a leadership role," Quinn said. "It's truly an honor, and I'm just thankful for the guys on our team." Weis also introduced another new institution, which he referred to as a leadership committee.. Notre Dame play­ers selected these individuals on a position-by-position basis. Each posi,tion will have a rep­resentative on the leadership committee in order to avoid on and off-field feuds. "Basically the way I explain it to the team is that sometimes there is gripe that they are afraid to eome to me with," Weis said. "It gives our players an opportunity to handle a lot of those things themselves, and when an issue becomes big enough they can come through 
·the leadership committee, through the captains, and get to me, and get those things taken care of." On the offensive side, Quinn will double up his duties repre­senting the quarterbacks as well as the entire offense. Rashon Powers-Neal will represent the running backs, Rhema McKnight the receivers, Anthony Fasano the tight ends and Dan Stevenson the offen-
Shostakovich, Symphoity no. 5 
Concerto rnovernents hv MeHdelssohn. Tchaikovskv, and Sarasate 
.: . " 

with winners of dH• 2005 Coneerto Competition 
Li~d})l 
~""' 

MARIE P. DEBARTOLO CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 
Friday, April ~~2, 2005 • 8 p.m. Leighton (~oncert Hall 
Admission: $6 GeneraL. $5 ND/SMC Facultv~ $3 Students 
' ' ,1· ; •' } I 

sive line. 
On defense, Victor Abiamiri will represent the defensive line, Corey Mays the lineback­ers and Tom Zbikowski the defensive secondary. 
Kicker D.J. Fitzpatrick will represent special teams. 
Notes: 
• Coach Weis told an interest­ing story after practice Tuesday about an important lesson he learned from Phil Simms while coaching the New York Giants in the 1991 season. 
The Giants were coming off a Super Bowl victory, and there was a quarterback controversy between Phil Simms, the Giants poster boy of the 1980's, and Jeff Hostetler, the backup quar­terback who filled in for an injured Simms and won the Super Bowl. 
The Giants were struggling early in the year, and Weis approached Simms, asking him to step up and be a team leader despite losing the job to his one-time back up. 
"[Simms] said, 'Charlie, let me teach you a lesson. You can't lead when you're not playing.' And I thought that was a valuable lesson that he had told me," Weis said. "Very few people can assume that responsibility." 
• After practice Tuesday, coach Weis took a shot at wide receiver Maurice Stovall, mak­ing fun of himself in the process. 
"Lose 20 pounds," Weis said to Stovall. "I want to be the only fat guy here." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

y
N 

----~-------~--------,-----;----,-­
Wednesday, April 20, 2005 page 25 
The Observer+ SPORTS 

Bookstore 
continued from page 28 
Tho gam;l was baek and forth from that point on. I·:verybody Poops made a small run to pull within four at 17­13, hut We Get Wet seornd two straight points. Then after four fruitless game-point pos­snssions, We Get Wet made a free throw to pull out the win. 
Looking For A Sponsor at the Moment 21, We Delivery 18 
The crowd slowly gathered as the word spread around the bookstore courts. 
"The number three toam is losing." 
By tho time No. 3 Looking For A Sponsor at the Moment carne back to beat heavy underdog We Delivery, the spnetators were three-deep and loud. Still, it takes more than a fnw fans and good first half to knoek off a top five tnarn, and tho Sponsorless showed thny deservnd their lolly ranking in crunehtime. 
"They worn just too athletie for us," Delivery small forward .John Paul Liehon said. 
Wn Dnlivery used a two­thrnn zone and a patient attaek to frustratn the Sponsorloss in the first half. 
"I think one of thnir weakest parts is thny likn to go off the dribble and they don't shoot wnll," Lkhon said of his team's dndsion to play a zone. 
Sponsorless captaih and power forward .Jon MeClyde disagreed that the zone threw off his tnam, instead placing thn blame on poor shooting. 
"Wn wnren 't hitting our shots," lw said. "We were kind of timid in the first half." 
We Delivery took an 11-7 load into the break, despite giving up height at every posi­tion on the floor. They kept the lead until the game reached 15-12, when the Sponsorless made their run, Jed by Collins, who scorml four second-half points. 
Looking for a Sponsor took thn lead at 16-15 as Collins seored in the Jane after a dish from point guard Hhema McKnight. 
McClyde attributed the comeback to the physical fit­ness of his teammates com­pared to We Delivery. 
"We were in better shape," he said. "They played hard, but we were in better shape and we outlasted them." 
Facing their first deficit of the night, We Delivery played the Sponsorless even until the game reached 20-18. Then Collins drove into the lane and collided with Liehon. The ref­eree called a block and award­ed Collins a free throw, whieh he swished. 
Lichon reacted to the call after game. 
"I thought I got in front of him," he said. "But the ref said it was a block, so I guess I can't complain. 
"Now I just wish I hadn't ~ot~en,run over by Jerome Collms. 
McCiyde said the comeback will help the team over come adversity in future rounds of the tournament. 
Jack's Shorts 21, Finish Line 15 
Jack's Shorts was originally named in honor of team mem­ber Jack Clark's trademark neon green shorts, -but Tuesday the name described its game -a victory over Finish Line that lasted a mere 25 minutes. 
Finish Line came clad in Air .Jordan jerseys and shorts with their sponsor's named etched on the backs, but that did not phase No. 4 seed Jack's Shorts, who just needed some grey T-shirts, Jess than half an hour out of their schedules and, of eourse, Jack's shorts. 
Well, that and an impeccable shooting performance. 
Led by Thomas Wither­spoon's 8-for-1 0 field goal shooting performance -most­ly from the outside Jack's Shorts took an early 11-5 lead at the half. The team missed only two shots along the way. 
"We came out shooting hot," Clark said, proudly sporting a certain pair of neon green Nike Shorts. "We tried to put the game away early. It was absurd." 
The display prompted the same description from Finish Line. 
"They started out shooting so hot," Finish Line's Dave Sethi said. "That's pretty much it." 
"Hot" applied to the entire team Tuesday, including Dan Surret and Dan Parziole, who controlled Finish Line's big men on defense and on the backboard, Clark, who netted 7 points on the night, and his shorts, which have been the namesake of a team looking to return to its second consecu­tive linal four. 
The shorts have inspired lime green T-shorts declaring "Jack's Shorts Shirts" that five fans sported on the sidelines. 
Pudgy's Chicken 21, Craig 
Fencing 16 
Pudgy's Chicken is a team of five 26-to-30 year old guys who bring a different flavor as they just now are getting their first tastes of Bookstore Basketball. After an impres­sive win over Craig Fencing, the No. 7 seed Pudgy's Chicken made reservations for the party of 16. 
Their recipe is what Doug Bartles, one of five one-year MBA students, calls playing the "Old Man Game." 
"We're slower," teammate Brian Weldon said. "We can't jump as high, we're fatter, and most of us have receding hair­lines. But we play team bas­ketball." 
Pudgy's Chicken succeeded Tuesday with their inside strength and ability to chal­lenge shots and misses. Big men Bartels, Brian Cullen and Scott Issei used their size to control the boards, despite the laudable efl'orts of Craig Feneing's John Lindenmeyer and Mike O'Donnell. 
Issei also scored a game­high nine points, capitalizing on fast break opportunities off turnovers created by Bartles, Weldon, Dan Kuney and him­self. Issei scored the game's winning point on a free throw -another defining feature of the "Old Man Game." 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu and Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 

Behind the Doors of Alumni Boards ... Become one of five (non-voting) volunteer Student Representatives to the alumni board of the Notre Dame Club of Saint Joseph Valley, academic year 2005­2006. Attend monthly board meetings (when on campus) and special alumni events. Learn the process! Take the experience to your own home club ... or one of the 200 ND Alumni Clubs around the world! Submit a letter of interest to Joe/len Conrardy, 353 DeBartolo Hall, no later than May I 0, 2005. Orcall631-9148. For further details, please visit-http:I /www.ndsjv.org Click on "Club News", then "Student Representative" at the top of the page.  
Bruno's Pizza accepting Graduation Reservations 2610 Prairie Ave. • Student Buffet $5.99 all you can eat South Bend, IN 46614 -pizza, pasta, salad 514-288-3320 • Starts at 5:30, till 8:30 ·Tuesday and Thursday night •14T.V.s • Still accepting Graduation reseNations AFamiiV Tradmon Slnce1915 • Seating available 2 to 100 • For on campus delivery phone 256-9000  

about the cfl'ect. the new coaching staff is having,
Catch 
despite the dil'lieulty of a tran­sition period.
continued from page 28 
"Coach Weis, he finds ways to Hob Ianello said. "We have to make it easier for us," make strides ... it's all about McKnight said. "I'd like to improvement." commend him actually, 
Spring practice has allowed because most people wouldn't a highly criticized group of be able to pick up on it, but he receivers to focus on learning finds his way to get into our a new offensive heads that it's system and build not that d i l'f'i­relationships with cult."
"We've made a lot 
a new coaching lanello came to
ofimprovements,

staff. the Irish from the 
"I think spring learning the University of practice is going offense and getting Wisconsin, whnrn really well," he coached tho
used to our new

Stovall said. tight ends for the "We've made a lot coaches." past two years. of improvements, lie spent nino learning the years as tho
Maurice Stovall 

offense and get­recruiting coordi­
Irish receiver 

ting used to our new coaches and coaching staff and the whole football pro­gram and the new practice game." 
The biggest challenge of the year has been for veteran receivers to Jearn a complicat­ed new offense. Stovall said the offense was not necessarily more complicated than other systems. 
"The level of complication is the same, it's just that it's a whole new program," he said. "Any time you go from one offense to another, you're going to have a lot of dift1cul­ties getting used to it, as far as just running the 
nator and six of 
those years also 

served as the wide receivers coach. 
"(lanello I is doing a good job with us, we have to get used to his style of coaching," Stovall said. "I think the biggest difli­culty is just learning the new offense and tho new program and dealing with exams and everything. You just have to lear.~ to balance those things out. 
Although the offense is a product of Weis, Ianello's prac­tice methods have been a new experience for some receivors. 
"We run through different wide receiver drills than wo have in our 
plays, reading cov­past," Stovall
"Any time you go
erages and getting said. "They're
from one offense to
used to the new helpful, you just terminology." another, you're have to get usod Learning a new to them. lie's a
going to have a lot
scheme has been a great guy, nice
ofdifficulties

team effort, from coach, nice per­Weis to Ianello to getting used to it. " sonality and I'm the receivers. glad ~.o have him 
"Obviously from here.
Maurice Stovall 

a mental stand­Arter spring
Irish receiver 

point, we've made practices, how-
strides as a whole group because it's a whole new system," Ianello said. "It's 
a  new system for me, it's  a  
new system for them. It's  a  
whole new system."  

As a group, I'm really pleased with where we are. We're learning what to do. Now the next step is learning how to do it. First of all, you've got to know where you've got to be on this, where you've got to be on that [and I that's pro­gressing very nicely." 
Team leaders are positive 
ever, McKnight is looking forward to taking the field in front of their lirst big audience for the Blue-Gold Game this Saturday. 
"Especially the last game leaving a bad taste in our mouth, we're just excited to get out there one morn time especially with students, your biggest fans, and just go out and have fun against your teammates again," he said. 
Contact Kate Gales at ­kgales@nd.edu 

ALL TRY-OUTS IN''THE PIT QUESTIONS? E-MAIL kdelay@nd.edu 
l' .• 
! . , .. 
I page 26 Wednesday, April 20, 2005
The Observer + SPORTS

I 
Streak 
continued from page 28 
and bringing Linda Secka to the plate. 
Secka had doubled earlier in the game, and after Stenglein fell behind her 2-0, Gumpf called for the second intentional walk of the inning. 
"I know that you're never supposed to walk the go ahead run, but those were the two hottest hitters on their team, and I thought that [Stenglein] was handling everyone else," Gumpf said. "We decided to go with her strengths." 
With two outs and a 3-2 could not hold the lead in the 
count on Katie Sheaks, Stenglein threw a perfect pitch on the inside corner to close out the game with her 14th strikeout. 
But Notre Dame's streak of 19 straight came to an end in game two. The Irish went ahead early in the third inning, with both Middleton and Sara Schoonaert runs. 
"We played really badly in the second game and that~s what they're unhappy with, and it's what I'm unhappy with, as well." 
Deanna Gumpf Irish coach 
bottom of the frame, however, giving up four runs including a three-run home run to Jessica Evans with two outs. 
Notre Dame gave up one run in the fourth and two runs in the fifth inning, and the Irish found themselves down 7-2 late 

scoring in the game before attempt­ing a comeback. 

Irish starter Heather Booth The Irish' used a DePaul error ·in the sixth inning to cut into the Blue Demons' lead, opening the inning with runners on second and third with no outs. But Notre Dame could only manage two RBI groundouts to cut the lead to three runs. Gumpf said after the game that the team wasn't so much disappointed to have its win­ning streak snapped, rather they were disappointed with their performance. "The girls don't focus on winning streaks or anything like that," she said. "We played really badly in the sec­ond game, and that's what they're unhappy with, and it's what I'm unhappy with as well." Notre Dame will have a chance to start a new win­ning streak Thursday as it faces Akron in a doublehead­er at Ivy Field starting at 3 p.m. 
Contact Justin Schuver at 
jschuver@nd.edu 

earned) in five innings. He struck out eight and walked
Honte 
four while facing 24 batters. continued from page 28 Korpi faeed one batter and 
yielded a hit Sunday against game if it was at more of a Connecticut. neutral site." Purdue enters tonight's game 
Notre Dame is fresh off a on a slide, losing six of its last three-game sweep of Big East eight games. Middle infielder foe Connecticut last weekend. Mitch Hilligoss leads the team The wins put lthe Irish in third with a .380 average, while out­place in the conference with an fielder Neal Gorka paces the 
8-4 mark,  one- Boilermakers with  
half game behind Boston College  "When you play  four home runs and 18 HBI. As a  
and 1.5 games behind St. John's. Mainieri said the team is gain­ing confidence as  Purdue, I don't care what sport you play, ifyou wear a Notre Dame  team, Purdue is hitting just .267 and have been outscored 181-121 by its opponents.  
they pile up more victories. "I think the  uniform, you should be fired up."  The Boilermak­ers pitching staff has been up and  
guys are feellng  down this season,  
much more opti­ Paul Mainieri  logging  a  team  
mistic  about  Notre Dame coach  EHA  of  5.11.  

things," Mainieri said. "We shored up our defense in the infield, which was a major issue and moving [Dan] Kapala into the starting rotation has really solidified our starting rotation on the weekends. 
All of a sudden there's a lot of sense of optimism that maybe we're catching some fire here." 
The Irish, who have won three straight and six of their last seven, send freshman left­bander Wade Korpi to the hill. Korpi has 12 appearances and four starts with a 3-1 record and an ERA of 5.66 for his rookie campaign. He has struck out 24 and walked 23 in 35 innings of work. 
Korpi took the loss in his last start, a 10-4 defeat to Central Michigan on April 13. In that game, he worked five innings and allowed three runs (two Teams are hitting 
.312 against the staff, including 19 round-trip­pers. 
Despite playing a weaker opponent in a non-conference, mid-week game, Mainieri said his team should be focused. 
"It is a little bit different [playing a mid-week gamel." Mainieri said. "The kids are in school during the week and they have papers and projects and tests and everything else to prepare for, so it really takes a lot of mental toughness for them to separate themselves and concentrate on baseball for a few hours. 
But when you play Purdue, I don't care what sport you play, if you wear a Notre Dame uni­form you should be fired up." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Come to the lrishpalooza Lo111erv . 
To Rock out to Michael Tolcher, Ambulance lliD, and The Walkmen get alonerv ticket. 
lonerv will be I April 20th trom1 Noon until5pm. Onlv lor N SIC, and HCC StUIIents. 
dooley room in IaFortune 
Bring vour ID and up to one lrielnds 10. Winners will·be posted at the SUB oftice 1201laFortuneJ. 
BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE STUDENT UNION BOARD 


Wednesday, April 20, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 

JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 


HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
HI NEW 
rxJ b
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
TOFLY 
rxJ 



VAIN ED WHAT HAPPE:NED ro HIS SKI VACATION AFTE:R He: IDOK 
± 
A SPIL-L-.
( J I 

www.jumbiA.com 
WAHLIE 

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: 
ITr I I I J'l I I I I I I I y· 
(Answers tomorrow} IJumbles: AWFUL MAGIC LOTION BAZAAR Yesterday's Answer: 
When the policeman bought a new uniform, the tailor altered the -LONG ARM OF THE LAW 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEHRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: Hayden Chrislenscn, 24; Kate Hudson, 26; Ashley Judd, 37; Tim Curry, 59 
Happy Birthday: Follow up on an idea you have hccn carrying around with you for some lime now. There will he an opporiLmity to combine your arlistic ahilily with the ideas of like-minded people to creme something unusual and marketable. Love is in the picture this year, so keep an open mind and heart. Your numhcrs arc 4, 19, 27. 34. 42, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A change at work or a mailer regarding your hank or other instiiution will develop. Consider your choices before making a hinding decision. Implement hetter dietary and exercise programs. *** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): This is the perfect day to do something with ihc.: one you love or, if you arc single, 10 meet Ihal special someone. A chance 10 do somclhing oul of Ihe ordinar-y will arise. Some interesting information will come to your attention. ***** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): You have pretty much everything going for you, but be careful. You may he hroadsided hy someone or something ihal will pul you in your place. Stick to what you know and do hcst. A prohlem at home will result in an inevitable turn of events. ** CANCER (june 21-.July 22): Stick to the tnuh even if it will cause some upset. Get things out in the open. Once you sort through the personal issues you will be ahle to begin again--this time on solid ground.**** LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): You may he feeling the urge to change your dircclion or to find a new way to earn a living. Take lime to filter ihrnugh all the inf(mnation you have gathered ahout something that truly interests you. It's never too late to learn a new skill. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Love, emotional matters and not knowing what you want will all cloud your day. Make up your mind to sort through all the bothers01ne little issues. Once you make up your mind. the rest will he easy. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You'll have plenty going on in your personal life today. An opportunity to get involved in an investment or a partnership could prove prosperous. A secret affair may he enticing, hul resist the temptation. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Conversations with people in the same line of work will offer interesting information you can apply to your current project. Be romantic, and you will please someone you care about. **** 
-

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): You have a lot going for you today, hul someone you least expect will prohably send you in the wrong direction. Use your discretion when dealing with others. You can avoid a problem at a personal level.** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will have a revelation regarding something you want to do or ahout someone you arc currently doing things wilh. Take the first step to turn your insightfulncss into something positive. The more you communicate or travel, the further ahead you will he. *U** AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 111): You may think you have everything in order, but don't count on anything today. Double-check everything you do he fore you move on. An error will come hack to haunt you when you least expect. Do not make a snap decision ahout the future. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Love and romance arc certainly in your corner. You may want to check out some other alternatives. Your personal outlook is changing, so adjust your life to lit your new lifestyle. *** Birthday Baby: You arc unpredictahlc. You arc resourceful and intuitive, and you have a powerful way of expressing yourself. You arc an opportunist. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidt'ntial consultations 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Light --­6 Defender of some unpopular causes, in brief 10 "Jabberwocky" starter 14 Father Sarducci of "S.N.L." 15 Game delayer 16 "I can't thing!" 17 Comedy troupe since the 60's 20 Org. with bomb-sniffing dogs 21 Gull-like 
predator 22 Enter cautiously 23 The Joads, e.g. 
25 Features of some cell phones 
26 Breakfast bowlful 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
28 "Really?!" 29 Milk: Prefix 30 Gives a rap 31 Hogwarts letter 
carrier 34 Bellicose god 35 Propelled a shell 36 Peau de 
(soft cloth) 37 Part of w.p.m. 38 Orbital point 39 nova 40 Slips on a slip 42 Housekeeper, 
at times 43 Lights into 45 Margaret Mead 
study site 46 From there 47 Geeky sort 48 Nashville sch. 51 Momentous 54 Double 
contraction 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Z~p______ 
----..-~--------------------.-----,---­
... 
THE OBSERVER 


PORTS
Wednesday, April 20, 2005 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIV 
Competition gets soaked 


No. 2-ranked team advances to the round of16 
By CHRIS KHOREY and TIM DOUGHERTY Spores Writers 
The clock hit midnight on Everybody Poops' Cinderella story. 
The unranked Poopers beat No. 31 Underrated, 28-26, Monday in an overtime thriller in the round of 64. They could­n't repeat the magic the next night in the round of 32, how­ever. and fell 21-15 to second­ranked We Get Wet. 
Everybody Poops fans came out to the bookstore courts in droves for the Tuesday night contest. whipped into a frenzy by their team's run. 
Fan Jake Amment credited the Poopers success to an old fashioned team-oriented style of basketball. 
"They play old-school, real basketball and not thug ball," Amment said. 
Everybody Poops small for­ward Joe Pomerenke said the team felt it should have been included among the top 32 

DUSTIN MENNELL.A/The Observer Powerade's Judah Wilson shoots a jumper against Hannah's Storm Tuesday. Hannah's Storm won a close game and will advance to the Sweet 16, which starts Thursday. 
teams. 
"We were ranked last year, and then we picked up a new big guy," he said. 
It was this confidence which inspired the team's run to the round of 32. 
"We just knew we were a good team," Pomerenke said. 
The game started out slow as the Poopers hunkered down on defense and stopped the high-flying We Get Wet attack. 
An Everybody Poops jump shot brought the score to 3-3, but the next few minutes were all Wet. The second ranked team went on an 8-2 run to take an 11-5 halftime lead. 
"We kinda went dry there for a bit," Wet captain and small forward Joe Amato said of his team's slow start. "Then we got together as a team and got 
FOOTBALL 

Receivers impress coaches 
A talented receiving corps
Led by McKnight and 

that last Tall struggled amid high expectations enters the
Stovall, air attack is 

season with new resolve and 
steadily improving new coaches but with the same natural talent that brought them to Notre Dame in the first place. 
-By KATE GALES 
"It isn't like these guys
Associate Sports Editor 

don't have the ability here," head coach Charlie Weis said. 
This could be the year when "And I didn't bring them in it all comes together for the here ..-they were already Irish passing game. here. 

CLEMENT SUHENDRA!The Observer Junior wide receiver Rhema McKnight stretches to make a catch during practice April 5. 
Led by rising seniors Rhema McKnight and Maurice Stovall, a team that includes Jeff Samardzija, Matt Shelton and Chase Anastasio will enter the season with a third-year s t a r t i n g See Also 
quarterback "Hoyte, Quinn and expecta­
new captains"
tions higher than ever. page24 
"There's maturity across the whole board, across the whole team, offense and defense," McKnight said. In his junior season, McKnight caught 42 passes for 610 yards and three touchdowns. 
With the rest of the team, the receivers have settled in for tough workouts and no easy answers. 
"The work ethic is good, the want-to is there, they ask good questions, they're good students of the game off the field and then it carries over to the field," receivers coach 
see CATCH/page25 

some fouls on them. Foul shots at the end were important." 
Despite the run, Everybody Poops would not go away. They scored the first three points of the second half to get in the game. 
"(At halftime I we ducked our heads down and said 'play our game,"' Pomerenke said. 
see BOOKSTORE/page 25 
ND SOFTBALL 
page 28 

BASEBALL 
Irish take on Boilers at Cove 
By JOE HETTLER Senior SraffWriter 
As usual, Notre Dame faces an opponent at home for a mid-week game tonight -sort of. 
The Irish (20-15) will travel a couple miles down U.S. 31 to face Purdue (11-21) at Coveleski Stadium, home of the South Bend Silver Hawks Single A baseball team. The game's first pitch is at 6:05 p.m. 
"I've been reluctant to play down there because I enjoy playing our home games at Frank Eck Stadium so much," Notre Dame head coach Paul Mainieri said. "A lot of people in the community have asked me to take the team downtown, so I just thought it was a natu­ral thing to do with Purdue. 
"There are a lot of Purdue graduates in this town, as well as Notre Dame, so maybe they'd come out and see the 
see HOME/page 26 

Win streak ends vvith doubleheader split 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Senior StaffWrit•!r 
All good things must come to an end. 
Notre Dame's winning streak stalled at 19 games as the Irish (30-9) split a double­header against DePaul (28-13) Tuesday afternoon in Chicago. 
The Irish won game one, 2­1, in eight innings, extending their wino ing streak to 19 before falling 7-4 in game two to the Blue Demons. 
Senior Steffany Stenglein pitched her third straight start. with at least 14 or more strikeouts, striking out 14 bat­ters while allowing only one run and three hits in the eight­inning, complete-game victory in game one. Freshman Katie Laing continued her recent streak of elutch hitting by knocking in the first Notre Dame run of game one with a one-out double in the third inning. 
But it was Kellie Middleton who had the biggest hit for the Irish, singling home pinch run­ner Nicole Wicks from second base with two outs and an 0-2 count. 
"Kellie has really been step­ping up lately in those two-out situations," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "She had fouled off several pitches in that at bat and finally got something she could handle. I've been looking for her to come through in the clutch, and she did that today." 
Stenglein pitched the bottom of the eighth inning for the victory, but went about it in an unorthodox way. The Irish elected to intentionally walk DePaul's Saskia Roberson, whose lead off home run in the fourth inning was the only run the Blue Demons scored off Stenglein. DePaul's next batter grounded out and the Blue Demons followed with a sacri­fice grounder, moving Roberson into scoring position 
see STREAK/page 26 
MlB 

Police seek· misde-Network executives Lance Armstrong is in White Sox 3 meanor charges against have mixed emotions 15th place after the first Twins 1 two Red Sox fans over "Monday Night stage of Tour de Georgia. Orlando Hernandez involved in scuffle. Football" move to ESPN. 
throws six shutout innings to lead Chicago to win over Minnesota. 

page 22 page 2:l. page 18 page 16 
SPORT CYCliNG MLB


SMC TENNIS NFL 
LLI Co) Saint Mary's at Redskins trade 3rd 
s 
z Calvin round pick and two future choices for the = Today, 3 p.m. Broncos' 2005 first 
round draft pick.
c:c 

=: 
page 24 page 23 





