
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Political groups continue activism 
Non-election year offers on-campus organizations chance to shift emphasis, broaden goals 
By JANICE FLYNN 
News Writer 
Last fall. tlwy knew Ohio roads like tlw ha1~k of their hands. Tlwy waged successful protl~sts. Tlwy drafted their 
r.1 msti tu ti1 ms. 
Campus political organiza­tions set off a llurry of activity during tlw 2004 nleetion l'er­vor. A ynar latPr, thny haven't fallen oiT llw map. In fad, they look forward to tlw rnjuvnna­lion an ofT-Pledion ynar pro­vidns and havn taken last yPar's lessons to !wart. 
llen~·s a glimpse of who thny are and what tlwy're up to, as wnll as an introduction to some 
sec POLITICS/page 4 

TIM SULLIVAN!The Observer 
The Notre Dame College Republicans gather at an executive committee meeting Nov. 3. Political groups on campus have remained active despite the election off-season. 


Web site helps students vvith housing search 
By JOE PIARULLI 
News Writer 
OfT-campus housing now has a home, and it's online. 
With Campus11lousing.eom, Notre Damn and Saint Mary's students can view local propm­tins for rent and eontaet the property manager through the Web site. 
Two Miami University (Ohio) graduates launched Cam­pus1llousing.com in September 2005. Beginning in 2006, it will serve 40 schools. Notre Dame was one of the original schools involved. 
Though the site has been around for almost a yoar, it won't be the same for much longer, as 2006 will b1·ing a major overhaul. 
"!The year! 2005 was kind of a test launch for us. We wanted to get the concept out tlHwn, get the Web site out thnre and get fnedbaek from the propnrty managers and, morn impor­tantly, the students," Camp­us1 Jlousing.com founder and CEO .Jake Burns said. 
The Web site, based out of Minneapolis, Minn., consists of a five-man team, including a 
see HOUSING/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Bracelets aid boy's fa1nily 
NO juniors' project becomes fund raiser 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Wri1er 
In lat11 Sopl.nmhnr, thn Nol.rn Damn community was tour.hnd by the story of' Montana Mazurkiewicz. 
Tlw I0-year-old hoy dind from cancer a l'ow days before the Notrn Damn­Washington football game, and Irish football lwad coach Charlie Wnis kept his promis•~ by running thn first play at the child's n~qunst. 
In the \Veeks following, three Notre Dame juniors found a way to honor Mazurkiewicz and assist his family through an assign­nwnt for their entrnprmwur­ship dass. 
Scott Coyle, Brian Vnith and Pat Argontinri arn selling navy blue rubber bnu~nlnts ins1Tihnd with "PlL';s Hight" to raise monny f'or the Mazurkinwi1~z family, who rnr.eivn all proceeds from tlw sales through a fund over­snPn hy tlw Not1·n Damn FndPral Crmlit Union. 
"We've talknd to tlwm. and mostly it's to help pay f'or nu;?i~:al and_ funeral <~Xplms­es, <.oyln smd. 
The group thought of sell­ing brar.elnLo.; bdim~ dneiding to fundraise for the 
see BRACELETS/page 4 



Hesburgh admitted to hospital, then released 
By KATIE PERRY 
Assistant News Editor 
University l'rnsidnnt Emeritus Father Tlwodorn llnsburgh suf­fered a f'all last Thursday that ldt him hospitaliwd f'or thrne days bnl'ore bning rnlnased Saturday, Univnrsity spoknsman Matt Storin said Monday. 
IIPshurgh, XX. l'nll down in his lloly Cross llall rnsidnncn Thursday night and was admit­tnd to St. .Joseph Hngional Mndical Cnntnr in South Bnnd, Storin said. 
Storin dndinml to comnwnt on llnshurgh's condition whilo tho pn~sidnnt nnwritus was in tlw hospital. but said he was rnlnasnd Saturday morning. 
Storin and llnsburgh's assis­tant Melanin Chaplnau both dndinnd comnwnt on the spedfk nalum of' tlw injury ll1~sburgh sustainnd. But Chapleau said tho injury was "minor." 
Storin and Chalpeau said the prnsident emeritus returnod to work Monday. 
"llo's doing fine, is back at work today, and this accident will not all'ect his sdwdule going liwward," Storin said. 
llnsburgh served as the 15th prnsidnnt of' Notre Dame from IIJ52 to l!JH7. lie has hnld 16 
U.S. pn~sidnntial appointments and has earned 150 honorary dngrnns f'rom eollnges aeross the country, thn most ever awardnd to o1w porson. Sinen stepping down as prnsidnnt, llesburgh has remained at Notre Damn, working in his ofliee on the 13th f'loor of' the llesburgh library nanwd in his honor. 
Thn Observer was unabln to rnaeh llesburgh for eomnHmt Monday. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Opposition stalls faith resolution 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
Firm resistance stalled a resolution meant to increase awareness of faith rosourees for non-Catholie students at Monday's Campus Life Couneil (CLC) meeting. 
Tlw two-fold resolution ealled for a rectors' work­shop in the spl'ing of 2006 and an additional training session for Hesident Assistants during their All llall Staff summer training workshops -both meant to increase awareness of non-Catholic resources. 
But the resolution was sent back to the Soc.ial Concerns task foren af'ter several rectors said the spring requirement was 
see RESOLUTION/page 6 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 22, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Classes 
that should 

exist 

The leaves are gone and football season is drawing to a close. Old Man Winter is having one last 
Sam Pandolfo 

drink before he gets started ruin­ing our social Advertising lives and regis­Executive tration is upon us. 
Some of us have already chosen our fate for the next four months, and others are just getting into the page-turning glory of "The Hours." I know we've all chosen really captivating courses, but if I could make my dream schedule it would look a little something like this: 
Life Skills 10100: Spelling 
This class may seem like a joke elective. In all honesty, nothing could be more important in life than a strong spelling ability. This class would be an extensive study of no fewer than 20 words a week. Lecture would cover phonics, and tutorials would consist of a group quiz. Words of particular empha­sis would be animals, colors, cities, and in the later parts of the course, foods. 
Home Economics 20901: Laundry and Ironing 
Personally, I would relish in . having a keen understanding of the mysteries of hot and cold water washing. I would think that this class should also cover the uses and differences between powder and liquid detergent, fab­ric softeners and heat settings for the dryer. In the second half of this course, we would learn about the intricacies of starch and how to iron delicate items such as ties and polyester. Naturally, this course would be a pre-requisite for Home Economics 30901: Advanced Stain Removal. 
Physical Education 36100: Massage 
Even though there would be a lab fee of $35 for this class, it's well worth it. Students would learn the basic techniques of sport massage, oriental massage, deep tissue massage and hot oil mas­sage. There would be a mandatory three-to-one girl-to-guy ratio. The final is a two-hour massage. 
Social Studies 40820: Friendship and Dating (Taught at Saint Mary's College) 
This would be.considered an experiential learning class. Students would have a different partner to take out every week. The school would pay for dates, of course. The goal here would be to develop an enriched understand­ing of the opposite sex in real world situations. 
Naturally, some of the pairings would result in friendship. 
Contact Sam Pandolfo at 
spandolj@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itselfas a professional publicarion and srrives for rhe highesr srandards of journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we make misrakes. Ifwe have made a misrake, please conracr us ar 631-4541 so we can correcr our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING FOR THANKSGIVING? 





Dave Leach Jake Hughes Thomas Rosenberger 
sophomore

freshman sophomore
Fisher

O'Neill O'Neill 
"Eating weights "Eating turkey." "Going home to 
with Lon the Southern 
Record." girls." 



June Lee  Alec Hirschauer  Susan Clark  
sophomore  sophomore  senior  
Lyons  O'Neill  Howard  
"Playing golfin  "!am going to  "Like any good  
the sun with my visit relatives in  senior, I'm  
family. "  Indianapolis. "  going to be  

sleeping and eating turkey. " 

IN BRIEF 
Laura H. Greene, professor of physics, University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, will give a lecture titled "Power Lunch: A Demonstration of Supercon­ductivity" from 11:30 a.m. to 1 
p.m. today in 284 Nieuwland Science Hall. Pizza will be served. The event is sponsored by Phi Beta Kappa. 
Fabio Ribeiro, associate pro­fessor of chemical engineering at Purdue University, will give a lecture titled "A Discussion of Recent Methodologies to Study Heterogeneous Cata­lysis" at 3:30 p.m. today in 140 DeBartolo Hall. 
Alexander Hahn, professor of mathematics at Notre Dame, will give a lecture titled "Galileo and His Science in Images" from 5 p.m. to 6 today in 214 DeBartolo Hall. The lecture is sponsored by the Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning. 
The Notre Dame men's bas­ketball team will take on Hofstra at 7:30 p.m. today in the Joyce Center. 
The Notre Dame hockey team will play Ohio State at 7:35p.m. Friday and 7:05p.m. Saturday. Both games will be in the Joyce Center. 
The Vienna Choir Boys, tout­ed as one of the most celebrat­ed children's choirs in the world, will kick off the holiday season in a 3 p.m. performance on Sunday at the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 27 HIGH 31 LOW 19 LOW 15 

PHIL HUDELSON!The Observer Workers hoisted on cranes decorate a Christmas tree on top of Howard Hall Monday. 
OFFBEAT 

Bush drinks mare's milk, avoids camels 
ULAN BATOR, Mongolia­The scene was straight out of a Genghis Khan movie. There were Mongol warriors clad in armor and helmets, armed with swords and mounted on the short, stout horses unique to Mongolia. The warriors hoisted color­ful battle flags on spears. 
Dancers in colorful cos­tumes and elaborate masks that resembled the heads of animals performed tradi­tional routines. Others banged on gongs or played horns. 
Cows, camels and grunt­ing yaks roamed nearby. 
President Bush, his wife, Laura, and Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice waded into the scene Monday, a settlement of tentlike "gers" set up for the occasion in chilly weather just outside the capital city. 
Bush entered the first of the wood-and-felt homes, made warm by one of the wood-burning stoves that are a staple of Mongolian living. 
He drank fermented mare's milk -sometimes likened to a mix of warm beer and buttermilk ­sipped tea and nibbled cheese curd, a White House official said. Reporters were kept outside and could not watch. 
Inside a second ger, Bush listened as three women in exquisite red and blue-gray gowns performed the tradi­tional Central Asian art of throat singing, a technique that allows the singer to cre­ate more than one pitch at the same time. 
Walking back to the motorcade for the ride to Air Force One, Bush checked out the camels but stopped short as he approached, say­ing he did not want to be spit on. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a:: 
liJ 
::c 
~ 
liJ 
3: 
-I 
c( 
(.) 


0 

..... HIGH 38 HIGH 25 HIGH 36 HIGH 30 
LOW 28 LOW 22 LOW 22 LOW 20 
Atlanta 45 I 40 Boston 50 I 46 Chicago 371 29 Denver 59 I 30 Houston 70 I 41 Los Angeles 78 I 53 Minneapolis 40 I 25 New York 49 I 42 Philadelphia 48 I 42 Phoenix 81 I 51 Seattle 46 140 St. Louis 46 I 32 Tampa 66 I 56 Washington 47 142 

'.~· .,•.1-' •• ·• ~'"' ..... •' a .. ., ~ .• • • • ,. .~ • • • ~ " " ~ • • • • ·•--••••••••• • • .'! • • , .-"': ~ "' ~ ~ -. -'"' ­
Tuesday, November 22, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Weapons expert discusses future 

By KAITLYNN RIELY News Writer 
Dr. David Kay informed Prnsident Bush in 2004 that Iraqi dictator Sad darn Ilussein pos­sessed no weapons of mass dostruction. 
On Monday night in MeKenna llall, the former direetor or the Iraq Survey Group gave a lecture titled "What is the Futum of Non­l'rolifimttion'!" and expert adviee on an international issue. 
Kay diseussed th11 strategy of non-proliftlration that the United States and the Soviet Union adopted during the Cold War. Th1-1 two countries diseovered several of their mspeetive allies were exploring nudear weapons pro­grams. The United States found th11 beginning of a program in Taiwan and persuaded the Taiwanese to halt the program by threatening to end U.S. protection of the eountry from China. 
Argentina also began to explore a nuclear weapons program in the late 1960s. 
"Who were the Argentineans planning to use weapons 
HOLIDAY 2005 STUDENT APPRECIATION EVENT 
20°/o discount on most regular and sale merchandise* 
WHEN: November 28,29 & 30 
TIME: 8:00am -1O:OOpm 
WHERE: Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore and Varsity Shops 
Bring your University ofNotre Dame ID to receive your special discount. 
Choose holiday gifts for everyone on your list! 
*excludes course books, software, peripherals, professional references, magazines, edibles, film & film developing and class rings. 
against?" Kay asknd. "You lose a soccer game, so you nuke the Brazilians?" 
Kay said the strategy included signing the nuclear non-prolifera­tion treaty and using aggressive in te II igence against states believed to possess nuclear wmtpons programs. 
Kay said the United States and the Soviet Union told their allies, "We will extend our umbrella of nuclear power f(Jr the priee of you not proceeding with nuclear weapons." 
The initial U.S. security strategy was to keep people out of the Western Hemisphere, Kay said. 
This started to ehange when the 
U.S. entered World War I. By the end of World War II, the United States had a different mindset, largely due to the Japanese attack on Pearl I !arbor. American policy­makers realized that events in other parts of the world could impact the security of the United States. 
The United States changed its new policy to build up "over­matching military power," Kay said. "We want to be sure that no one can rationally conclude that they should attack us." 
Kay said the Sept. 11, 2001 ter­rorist attacks rninlbreed fear of a nuclear attack on Ameriean soil, a change sinee tho Cold War. 
"We have today groups of indi­viduals that can actually eontem­plate their usn," he said. 
During the 2004 presidential raee, Kay said both President George Bush and former Democratic candidate John Kerry agreed the most important and dangerous national security prob­lem facing the United States was nuclear proliferation. 
Kay said the failure of the nation-state system complicates the threat of nuclear weapons today. lie foresees more problems in the Middle East as the failnd states of Yemen and Sudan eon­tinue to grow. 
Kay categorizes at least 70 to 85 nation-states in the world today as failed. lie predicts Mexico will soon become a failed state, as he sees corruption at every level and believes the United States does not devote suf­ficient resources to reverse the current course of Mexico towards failure. 
"We arc going to pay the priee for that if we're not careful," Kay said. 
Kay discussed the need for the establishment of norms to govern scientific conduct, improvement to national intelligence and the development in language capabil­ities of clandestine officers. lie said it was unlikely that the world would go another 60 years with­out use of a nuclear weapon, and the United States must conduct a dialogue on how to confront this use. 
Kay called universities "the incubators of ideas and social change" and said they were an ideal place to start this dialogue. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at 
kriely@nd.edu 


Big na111e acts 111eet requests, SUB says 
By KATIE PERRY Assistall! News Editor 

Student Union Board (SUB) organizers said the Doc. 2 Bett11r Than Ezra concert, mueh like October's Vince Vaughn comedy show, is a direct delivery on student requests for big-name aets on campus this year. 
SUB Manager Jimmy Flaherty said the Board spent "quite a bit of time" surveying students about possible bands, as well as pricing. 
"(Better Than Ezra! showed up as the top band and we were able to make it happen at a great price for students," he said. 

Chris Lund, the SUB pro­grammer in charge of the upcoming concert, said the survey included approximate­ly ten bands and gauged which acts students most wanted to see. Better Than Ezra had "very positive results," he said. 
Lund said "everyone from [Flaherty] through the pro­grammers to the dorm reps" has worked to provide the type of entertainment stu­dents want to see. 

"We work on behalf of lthe students]. and at the end of last year we heard what they would really like is for big­name entertainers to come to Notre Dame," Lund said. 
This year, SUB has made a conscious effort to continue the success of its smaller events while still maintaining a consistent presence of large scale programming, Flaherty said. 

"If big-namn shows contin­ue to be sueeessful, we will have even more lnvorage in attnmpting to get popular acts in the future," Lund said. 
Flahnrty said SUB is work­ing with liJcal policn and lirn dnpartmnnts to maximize capacity of Stepan Center, thn coneort's sehedulnd venuo. 
"As we saw with the Vinen Vaughn show, Stepan can actually be a nice location for a largn event like this," Lund said. 
Both Flaherty and Lund said SUB expncts a sold out show. 
"For only $10, this is a great concert, especially since the band sells out venues nor­mally at $15 to $25," Flaherty said. "We encourage students to buy tiekets as soon as pos­sible to make sure they got a seat, as tieknts are limited." 
Tiekets are on Sitln at the LaFortune Box Ol'liec. 
"We know there are sornn SYHs on that night, but we have seheduled the show to start at 8 p.m. so it can be over by 10 p.m. so that all students will be able to attnnd their dances," Lund said. 
Flaherty and Lund said due to legal reasons, SUB cannot comment on booking eosts for the event. 
"We are not allowed to dis­close [the cost]. However if the show is successful and there is a large crowd, we would hope to bring another big band to campus in the spring," Lund said. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 

Students flock ho111e 
for Thanksgiving Day 
By RYAN SYDLIK 
News Writer 
Whether they travel by car, plane or even foot, many stu­dents will take the opportuni­ty to spend time with their families and enjoy a good Thanksgiving dinner over this week's break. 
Freshman James Wilson will be heading home on Wednesday to Grand Hapids, Mich., to share a Thanksgiving Day meal with his family. 
But Wilson said he will also spend some time with friends from high school. On Friday, he plans to reunite with his old friends and take a trip to watch his former high sehool football team play for the state championship in Dntroit. 
Sophomore Ben Gunty, on the other hand, will spend the break with his family in South Bend. His trip won't require flight delays or holiday traffic jams. 
'Til probably walk home since I live about a mile from campus," Gunty said. 
Sophomore Cici Zhang is going home to Chicago, where she plans to spend Thanksgiving with her family and see the play "Rent." 
While the trip home might be a long haul for most stu­dents, some, like Gunty, do not have to travel very far for their Thanksgiving break. 

Junior Caitlin Mahan will be going a bit further -visiting family in southern New Jersey. She had the same plan last year, but Mother Nature intervened. 
"Last year it snowed, and I couldn't go home," Mahan said. "llopnfully, that does not happen again." 
Other students, like senior Davin Costa, will be spending their Thanksgiving away from horne. Costa plans to stay in Knott during the break. 
"I have a lot of work to do," he said. 
But work isn't the only rea­son Costa plans to stay in South Bond. !lis home in Kauai, llawaii is too far away to return to over the break. 
"I would not have any time there if I went horne," Costa said. "As much as I would like to go home, I will miss Thanksgiving with my family for the fourth ynar in a row." 
But no one needs to worry about Costa not getting a good meal on Thanksgiving. 
"I plan on eating Thanksgiving dinner with my friends at Castln Point," he said. 
----···-----~~~--~-~ 
.

--------~------~-~~----------L-----------------------------...
" • ' ~ -f t .~ 
:;:.
' 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Politics 
continued from page 1 
newcomers onto the political club scene. 
Recruiting and expanding 
Everyone's been through Frosh-0. But College Republican Frosh-0? 
During the second week of classes, over 40 freshmen braved the truly unknown and, upon entering North Dining Hall, were met by College Republican officers who thrust them, again, into Frosh-0 games -this time with a polit­ical twist. 
The games, which included an envelope-stuffing contest and debates on why Barney the Dinosaur should be president rather than John Kerry, con­tributed to the group's goal this year of better networking and leadership, said president Jonathan Klinger. 
It's working. Last year, the College Republicans had three leadership positions. 
This year they have 36. 
The group keeps its extensive hierarchy and 700-member e­mail list organized with bi­weekly meetings and six com­mittees. 
This semester, the College Republicans have co-sponsored a conference on terrorism, planned a social security debate and started a Thanksgiving clothing drive. They are now working towards a dorm-wide voter registration. 
"I believe personally that you can't have small government without a lot of activity and responsibility on the part of people for their fellow man," Klinger said. 
An additional goal, Klinger said, is to keep ties with the national party. Two weekends ago before the football game against Navy, they had a club tailgate to which they invited prominent Republicans, includ­ing Chairman of the Republican National Committee Ken Mehlman and several members of Congress. 
Klinger hopes to both reaf­firm and expand the perception of what it means to be Republican. 
"During an election year, our goal is clearly to support the candidate," 
said. 

club members. co-sponsor the terrorism lec­
The College Democrats, who ture series and are planning a also have bi-weekly meetings free speech movie night and and a 700-name e-mail list, meetings with state party have goals in three areas: elec­members this semester. The toral, campus and long-term. state of Indiana happens to 
An overriding goal, the co­have a particularly strong presidents said, is to bolster Libertarian party, Wagner said. the Catholic Democrat argu­Last week, the group invited ment. This includes a focus on passersby in LaFortune to take social justice through economic a 10-question survey -"The policies, such as supporting the World's Smallest Political Quiz" minimum wage project for in an effort dubbed campus employees. Next "Operation Politically semester, they hope to bring a Homeless." The participants' prominent Catholic Democrat answers placed them on a two­to campus. axis political spectrum, a 
"At a place like Notre 
"Our goal is to reach
Dame, we have a unique out to a larger tent of opportunity to 
ideas and to 
counter the 
encourage people to
perception that Hepublicans voice their have a monop­disagreements about 
oly on morality 
certain issues." 
and faith," Taylor said. "It's a two-way Jamie Kralovec street. The De­co-president mocrats are 
College Democrats 
equally entitled to make argu­ments based on morality." tion to the 
Unceasing in their efforts for meeting. 
broader scale 
than the typical 
left-right posi­
tions. Many were 
surprised at 
their own lean­
ings. 

"One girl 
ended up well 
into the liberal 
left and said, 
'But I love 
George Bush!"' 
Mangold said. 
Participants 
were sent away 
with an invita­next Libertarian 
the local Democratic party, Wagner said through promo­they have already begun to tions such as this, he hopes to support Democratic Congres­get the word "Libertarian" on sional candidate Joe Donnelly's people's tongues. congressional run in 2006 and "A lot of people who aren't will help with a major local really familiar with Democratic fundraiser this Libertarians, once they start week. looking into it, feel that it really 
"One of our goals is to bridge resonates with them," Wagner the divide between Notre Dame said. "It just makes a lot of students and the local commu­sense to a lot of people." nity," Kralovec said. "The party significantly admires and is A network of support grateful for work of Notre Be forewarned all Dame students in the same way Democrats, Republicans and that Notre Dame students exer­Libertarians will be asked to cising their democratic will win over the hearts and minds would have not the opportunity of women this semester. if not for the local party." These three college political 
An off-election year, Kralovec organizations will debate said, also enables the group to women's issues later in the focus on internal diversity in a semester due to the efforts of a group where there may be new organization on campus, many "different shades of the Women in Politics. same color." It's an exciting step for a 
"Our goal is to reach out to a group that was denied club sta­
larger tent of ideas and to tus last year on the grounds of encourage people to voice their having a too-specific appeal, disagreements about certain president Meghan O'Connell issues," Kralovec said. "I think said. it's making for a more produc­"We stuck together, kept tive and more helpful group." working, reapplied. It was a 
pretty complicated process," Hitting the ground running O'Connell said. "Pretty much Internet campaigns, which our mission for the entire year were all the politi­was the challenge of having to 
Klinger cal rage last year, fix mistakes we'd made [the]
"During an off-year,
"During an off­did not bypass first time. We made sure our year, our big our big goal is to Notre Dame. language was more inclusive goal is to pro­provide venues for Scott Wagner, for both major and gender." vide venues for now the president Their mission now: to provide
members to express
our members to of the a network of academic support express their their political views Libertarians, had both in Notre Dame and political views on campus. always hoped beyond, while remaining com­on campus, as someone would mitted to topics concerning well as to start such a club women and political science. 
Jonathan Klinger 
advance those but thought it The group, which has 15 core views. Our president unlikely that members, has sponsored both responsibility is College Republicans Libertarians could this debate and the terrorism 
to show our conservative principles aren't meant to pre­vent other people from pursing something, but that we have a responsibility to use our beliefs and values to promote a greater good. 
"Progressive conservatism, if you'll forgive the oxymoron," Klinger said. 
Sustained relevance 
National elections can be overwhelming and exhausting, and no group knows this better than the College Democrats, whose campaign efforts last fall took them to Michigan, Ohio, Iowa and Tennessee. 
This year, with the goal of "sustained relevance," co-pres­idents Colin Taylor and Jamie Kralovec were heartened to see the sustained enthusiasm of find each other. conference. An essential part of 

"So, embarrass­the club is its bi-monthly lunch ingly enough, the facebook discussions with professors. shows up," he said, laughing. The fruits of their labor have 
Wagner invited like-minded been quite satisfying, O'Connell students to join his political said. facebook group, "Libertarians." "Our first meeting, people Through this, he met club offi­wanted to do everything, we cers -now vice president had to reign ourselves in!" she Catherine Kent and speaker said. "To eventually agree on Dave Mangold -and thus the things and actually Lbe] doing group began. them has just been incredible." 
So what is a Libertarian? And it's not just about 
"Libertarianism is basically women, O'Connell said. the conception that the govern­"We want all points of view ment's responsibilities extend -men, women, any person to defense and contract resolu­from any major," she said. "If tion and really nothing else," you are at all interested in poli­Wagner said. "We basically tics, we want to help you out support rolling back laws, and give you a forum to help rolling back government inter­you develop and grow as a ference in people's lives." political person." 
The group holds bi-weekly meetings and has an e-mail list Contact Janice Flynn at of about 150 names. They also jflynnl@nd.edu 
. ...
~ 

Tuesday, November 22, 2005 

Bracelets 
continued from page 1 

Mazurkiewicz family, but decid­ed the boy's inspiring story would make for a successful project. 
"It's a tangible way for people to remember what happened," Veith said. 
Coyle said the project was both a good way to honor Mazurkiewicz and to fulfill their assignment to start a company or fundraising effort. 
"At the time, it had just hap­pened, so it was a big story on campus," he said. "We thought it would be a good opportunity and that there was a need to be fulfilled. It's also a great story that people should look at and admire. 
"We felt that going the charity route would allow us to expand our horizons and do something great in addition to learning valuable things in class," he said. 
The bracelets, which cost $3, are sold online at www.pass­right.org or from one of the group members. They have also been sold at football concession stands for Sorin, Badin and Farley Halls, Veith said. Coyle estimated that each concession stand sold about 100 bracelets. 
Argentieri said about 750 of the 1 ,000 bracelets originally ordered have been sold. 
Rather than setting a specific monetary goal for the project, the group aims to cater to cam­pus interest. 
"We're figuring most of the interest will die out by the end of semester," Coyle said. "We want to go through semester but are not capping it at that." 
The bracelets have been pop­ular among those who knew Montana, Argentieri said. 
"A local school teacher who had Montana in class heard about our project and loved the idea," he said. "The family keeps wanting more bracelets." 
Veith said the Notre Dame community is in a speeial posi­tion to help the Mazurkiewicz family with expenses. 
"I think we all have experi­eneed a loss like the Mazurkiewicz family did," he said. "When you see Charlie Weis say [Montana! wanted to stay alive just to see the football team play one more time, it really brings home that every­one at Notre Dame is in a posi­tion to help people that I don't think we realize." 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel @nd.edu 

ND profes~or named 






engineering fellow 
Special to The Observer 

Samuel Paolucci, professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering at the University of Notre Dame, has been named a fellow of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME). 
Fellow is the highest elected grade of membership in ASME and is conferred upon a mem­ber with at least 10 years of active engineering practice who has made significant con­tributions to the field. 
A faculty member since 1989, Paolucci specializes in the study of fluid mechanics, focusing on laminar and tur­bulent natural convection in enclosures, stability of flows, nonlinear dynamical systems and chaos, two-phase flows and analytical and computa­tional solutions of partial dif­ferential equations. He earned his doctorate from Cornell University. He also is a mem­ber of the American Physical Society, the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics and Sigma Xi, the scientific research society. 
Paolucci is the lOth member of Notre Dame's aerospace and mechanical engineering faculty to be named a fellow. 

NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick fleece coat is perfect 
for winter. Askanyyak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own 


or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. Denali jacket 
3602 N. Grape Road Mishawaka, Indiana 

~ 
259·1000 

CUTPC!IT Hours: 
Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am-9:00pm

~ 
Sat.: 1o:oo am -B:oo pm
Cold Weather Experts 
Sun.: 12:oo pm -6:oopm 









ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, November 22, 2005 CoMPJTED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WJRE SERVJCES page 5 
~===========================================-=-==--------­
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
AIDS preventive programs pay off 
LONDON -IIIV inli~etion ratns am starting to dPITnasP consistently in sonw 1:ountrios for tlw lirst tinw. indic:ating that pnwm1tion pro­grams snt up owr the last live years an~ finally yinlding msults, tho United Nations said. 
llownwr. thn A[[)S virus continuos to expand iL'i rearh, with thn nstimatnd numbnr of pnoplo living with thn virus now passing 40 million. acmrding to this year's AIDS npidomic update n~port. puhlislwd Monday by tho United Nations. That's an inrmasn ol' some 'JOO,OOO rasns owr tlw nstimatn fiw tho prnvious year. 
AIDS has killml morn than 25 million people sirwn it was first rnmgniznd in l'JH 1. making it onn of tlw most destructive npidmnics in histo­ry. An nstimatPd 3. I million poopll~ dind from AIDS-rnlatPd illrwsses last ymtr. and 4.9 million morP pnoplP lwcamn infnetnd with IllY, the virus that causns AIDS. 
Kenyans vote for new constitution 
NAIIWBI -Kenyans votnd Monday wlwtlwr to approvn a nnw constitution in a rl'fnn~ndum officials said w1~nt rnlativoly smoothly. dnspitn minor dashes in Nairobi's largest slum and allngations ol' votn buying. 
Tlw draft eharter had bitterly dividnd tlw nation and eausnd prn-1~lnetion violnncn that killnd snvnn people, leading nlnetion ol'f'irials to deploy riot polien to various parts ol' tlw wuntry [(,r thn votn, including Nairobi's sprawling Kibnra slum. 
Kilwra rnsidnnts angry over tho presence of t.hn polk1~ chased of'fknrs out of tho slum and attar.knd a truck drivor thoy thought was fi~rrying stuffnd ballot boxns. Tho man suffnr1Hl minor wounds. but thnrn worn no imnwdiat1~ rnports of othnr elashns in tho eountry. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Slain parents' teen was not kidnapped 
LANCASTEH -A 14-year-old girl whosH I H-yoar-old boyfriend allegedly killed her parnnts lnf't with him willingly af'ter thn slayings and was not kidnapped. prosecu­tors said in eourt papers filed Monday. 
David Ludwig told deteetives Kant Bordm1 ran from her home and into his car af'tor ho shot her paronts Nov. 1:~. and Bordnn said shn went with him of her own frne will. according to doeuments filnd by l.aneastor County prosecutors. 
Ludwig confessed to tho killings, saying hn shot tlw parnnts after tho father told him to stop seeing his daughter. 
Cheney slams misleading war critics 
WASIIIN(;TON -Viee l'residnnt Dick Chnnny said Monday it's OK for Congress to dnbate wlwtlwr invading Iraq was tho right dndsion. calling sueh open exehanges "milrn than just a sign of a healthy political systnm -it's also something I nnjoy." 
But minutes later, Chenny changod his tonn. Orw of the most outspoknn arehiteets of thn war, Clwnny aeeusnd critics of' "cor­rupt and shamnless" revisionism in trying to suggnst that hn and President Bush manipulated intellignnee and misled the nation in a rush to war. lin eallml sueh tae­tic:s "dishorwst and rnprnlwnsiblo." 
Cherwy's words eamn a day af'tor Bush a p p n a r ll d t0 be 0 aS iII g 0 ff 0 II hiS 0 W II attacks on war critics. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Police officer shot in face, loses eye 
INI>IANAI'OLIS -A polien ol'lieer shot in thn faen during a fight following a traf1ie stop had his right nye rmnovnd Monday during surgnry. polien said. 
Oflicor Mikn Antonnlli. 25, was in intensive earn Monday af'tnrnoon at Wishard Mmnorial llospital af'tnr more than night hours of sur­gnry, poli(:n Lt. l.loyd Crowe said. 
Antonnlli was expneted to survive thn wound, Crown said. Thn shooting suspoet, Knnya K. Wright. 26, rmnained at largo af'tnr llnning on foot from thn shooting sennn. 
. ' , ..... .. 
FRANCE 


School guard dies as unrest simtners 
Prirne minister. pledges more jobs for underpriviledged youths; rioting continues 
Associated Press 

SAJNT-DI\NIS -France's 
primo minister plndged Monday to find more jobs for youths from poor sub­urbs, where unrnst contin­ued to simmnr and a high school guard sul'fnred a ·ratal heart attack trying to 
nxtinguish blazing ears. 
The guard (:ollapsed and dind southwest M Paris in Trappns, one of about :mo citios and towns hit this month by thn1e weeks of rioting, arson attacks and other violence. 
The violenco has abatod but sporadic arson attacks continue. Poliee say dozons of ears arn torched on a typ­ical night in France's depressed suburbs, where frustrations ovnr unnmploy­ment and discrimination run high among many youths from immigrant fam­ilies. 
On Sunday, youths in a public housing project in the eastern dty of' Colmar thrnw stones at firefighters called to extinguish burning scoot­ers, smashing the wind­shield of' the rescuers' vehi­cle, regional spokesman AP Jean-Christoph!~ Schneider French Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin speaks to France's national employment agen­said. cies, Monday, to mark.the launch of an employment program for suburban districts. 

At a national meeting of job eounselors to discuss Denis. government strategies for Ville pin's tone w~ts in helping minority youths, stark contrast to the dour Prime Minister Dominique assessment of Interior de Villepin ealled it "unac­Minister Nicolas Sarkozy, ceptable" that minorities who said Saturday the faced job discrimination. French social model was But he said that France's "collapsing" -a sign that economic outlook was the unity the two rivals dis­improving and the jobless played during the crisis was rate decreasing. starting to unravel. 
"I am not asking you to The rioting erupted Oct.· see things through rose-tint­27 and peaked early this ed glasses, you are too dose month, with vandals torch­to the realities, you kr.ww ing more than 1 ,400 ears in too well the difficulties of one night. The government everyday lifo, but all these responded by declaring an indieations are eause for ongoing state of emergency optimism," he told the audi­that remains in place that ence in tho northern allows authorities to impose Parisian suburb of Saint-curfews and more easily 
MEXICO 
search homes, among other measures. 
Meanwhile, several mosques have been attacked or vandalized in what Muslim leaders fear is an anti-immigrant backlash from the rioting. 
On Sunday, authorities discovered racist and extremist slogans -includ­ing one that said "Dofend yourself, France" -spray­painted on a mosque being built in Saint-Etiennn. 
In a separate incident Sunday, attackers armed with two Molotov eoektails damaged a mosque in a low-incomn area in tho eastern town of Fougnrns. 

Police are investigating the mosque attacks and the death of the high school guard. Police spokesman Alain Hahmouni said thnrn were no arrnsL'i so far in thn man's death. 
As part of rerwwnd gov­ernment efforts to eombat the innqualitins laid bam by Franco's worst riots in four deeades, President .la1:quns Chirae is to meet Tunsday with business and labor loaders and national tnlnvi­sion nxecu tivns to diseuss hiring young peopln from poor noighborhoods and airing more programs that rellnet Franee's radal divnr­sity. 
Vatican beatifies 13 revolutionaries in stadium 
. .~ . ~:. .. :
." ............··.. -·. ,. ,. ... ... ... .. ..·....·· .· ,' 
Associated Press 

GUADALA.JAHA -The Vatican on Sunday beatified 13 Mexicans who died during a Homan Catholic upris­ing in the late 1920s that was erushnd by the Mexican govern­ment. 
The f'aithi'Lrl nearly filled Guadalajara's (,(),000-seat soccer stadium. where Cardinal Jose Saraiva Martins arrived from Home to oversoe the cernmony. 
Those without tickets ringed the stadium and listened from the out­side, while thousands of others tunnd in to radio and television broadeasts in rwarby restaurants and shops. 
Thn Portuguese-born Saraiva 
·.
. 
Martins, who heads the Vatican ol'ficn overseeing the process for sainthood, called the martyrs "faith­ful witnesses" to the power of the chureh. 
Sketelws of each martyr adornml the lield, arranged around a tower­ing cross. Pope Benedict XVI appoarnd on vidno screens, reading a messagn in Spanish from the Vatican. 
"Thoy are a permanent example for us," the pope said of tho mar­tyrs, "an encouragement to givn eoncrnte testimony of our own faith in today's soeinty." 
The 1917 constitution that grew out of the Mexican revolution tight­ened restrictions on the church, banning public masses and religious 
• I , 

garb. It capped a eontury ol' set­baeks for the churd1. whieh had enjoyed a government-imposnd monopoly on faith for most of the 300 years following Spain's eon­quest ol' Mnxieo in I 521. 
The restrictions sparked tlw Cristero War ol' 1926-29, in which tons of thousands died fighting t.hn govornmnnt. Hestrictions on thn ehurch have gradually eased, though Mnxieo did not rn-nstablish diplomatic rolations with thn Vatican until 1992. 
Sunday's eermnony marknd tho first Mnxican lwatil'irations sincn 2004, wlwn Pope .John Paul II lwati­f'ind Guadalupe (;areia, a (;uadalajara nativn who founded hospitals and a rnligious order. 
. I 
'' 


......,., . 
y . . ...... !f. 
• k ·' 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, November 22, 2005 

Resolution 
continued from page 1 
unnecessary and excessive. 
"These needs are already addressed [by Campus Ministry]." said Welsh Family Hall rector Candace Carson. "If a rector feels they are unaware of the non-Catholic resources, then they just need to contact Campus Ministry. To sit and hear something I'm already aware of and with the amount if things we are required to do for graduation, it just wouldn't serve us well." 
But Badin Hall rector and Social Concerns task force member Ann Napoli said she doubted rectors would actively seek out the information on non-Catholic resources if they weren't already provided for them in a workshop. 
"We have to work harder because this is such a Catholic place and we need to reach students who aren't Catholic," Napoli said. "I don't know if we're doing that right now. 
Napoli said she felt the cam­pus had seen "something of a reduction" in activities geared to non-Catholic students. 
"lSI !Iron Sharpens Iron] seem to be the only group that meets regularly for non­Catholic students," she said. "These are the types of things that started the conversation [to create the resolution] and a desire to address the issue sooner than next August." 
Pasquerilla West Hall sena­tor Christina Lee supported both aspects of the resolution, insisting that rectors as well as RAs need a deeper under­standing of how non-Catholic students can find faith outlets outside Notre Dame. 
"Being non-Catholic and try­ing to find opportunities that were available was difficult. While my rectress was inform­ative, she was limited in terms of specifics," Lee said. "If this is a burden on the rectors, then we can work on it, but we wanted to get it started as soon as possible instead of waiting until the next academ­ic year begins." 
Student Union Board manag­er Jimmy Flaherty motioned to have the resolution amended by deleting the clause requir­ing a spring workshop for rec­tors, but the motion was not approved. 
The resolution was sent back to the Social Concerns task force for revision. 
In other CLC news: 
+ Student body president Dave Baron presented two letters to the Council from Vice President of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman. 
The first letter updated the Council on the progress of the student activities fee increase resolution. The resolution has faced both the University Budgetary Working Group and the University Officers Budgetary Group and both times has been met with posi­tive feedback. It will be consid­ered by the Finance Committee of the Board of Trustees and later by the full Board of Trustees in February. 
In his second letter, Poorman praised a resolution passed by the CLC last week that recom­mended revisions to the dorm dance commissioner's manual. 
"Father Poorman responded favorably and came up to me personally to say that some rectors had come up to him 

saying they were pleased that students and faculty were tak­ing up this issue on their own," Baron said. 
The resolution is meant to stress the importance of hav­ing appropriate themes, dress codes and advertising for dorm dances. The resolution was also sent to Assistant Director of Student Activities Peggy Hnatusko, who is currently in talks with members of the Social Concerns task force ­the committee that crafted the proposal. 
+ 
Hall Presidents Council co­chair Dan Zenker said he will be meeting with Joyce Center officials in January to discuss the procedures for next fall's football pep rallies. 

"We plan to meet after Christmas break to see if the ticket system will be in place again next fall and try to make sure things are more consis­tent next year in terms of times [when students can arrive], gates [for entering] and ticket implementation," Zenker said. 

+ 
In another effort to ease the burden for non-Catholic stu­dents, Social Concerns task force chair Jacques Nguyen said his group is currently examining the objectives of University required theology courses. 


"Deans of the theology department are going to visit our task force meeting to clari­fy the expectations the University has of its 101 theol­ogy courses and the goals and concerns with the religious curricula," Nguyen said. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Hippie, churchgoer helpers unite 
Reliefworkers hail from different backgrounds but display solidarity 
Associated Press 
WAVELAND, Miss. -Today, a relief worker with abundant tat­toos has decided to wear a flow­ery orange dress, the sleeveless cut showing ofT his meaty arms. 
As he walks by, a middle-aged Methodist from Kentucky contin­ues handing out teddy bears to hurricane victims without missing a beat. A retired Episcopal priest looks up from the crates of donat­ed food and grins at the man's frock. 
"Oh," the priest says. "That's just wonderful." 
At the New Waveland Cafe, a combination soup kitchen, dona­tion depot and medical clinic for survivors of Hurricane Katrina, volunteer groups of God-fearing churchgoers and free-spirit hip­pies have formed a bond -a result, they say, of working together toward the greater good. 
"It's an unlikely alliance," says a 28-year-old volunteer from Santa Cruz, Calif., known simply as "Moonflower." 
The relief center, formed short­ly after Katrina flattened this small, coastal city, is run by vol­unteers from several churches and several people associated with the Rainbow Family, a "dis­organization" of self-described hippies who gather annually in a national forest to pray for world peace. 
Community members have embraced the eclectic volunteers and come to depend on them not just for food, but much-needed comic relief. 
"I had someone ask me, you 
know, 'Hancock County, 
Mississippi, it's really conservative 
... How did you guys break in?' I 
said, 'It's conservative? I hadn't 
noticed,"' says Clovis Siemon, 25, 
of Viroqua, Wis., one of t:l)e ftrst 
hippies to arrive in Waveland. 
"Everyone has a common mission 
and goal, so all the barriers . . . go 
away." 
I low the operation came to be 
is a complex tale, says Pete Jones, 
a church volunteer. Shortly after 
Katrina demolished Waveland, 
some evacuees began arriving in 
Bastrop, Tex. Concerned local 
church members hopped in their 
pickup trucks and headed east 
with food, water and charcoal 
grills. 
They landed in Waveland and 
set up a tent in a parking lot 
across the street from the gutted 
police station. 
Locals heard the volunteers and 
began emerging from the sur­
rounding woods, many naked 
after the hurricane literally 
ripped their clothes ofT. 
The food supply quickly dwin­
dled. Volunteers prayed for and 
received a welcome truckload of 
hot dogs. 
Meanwhile, a few Rainbows 
had rolled into town, laden with 
organic goodies. The two groups 
bumped into each other and a 
joint operation was formed. 
Tents for dining, cooking and 
daycare went up. A traditional 
medical tent, which offers stan­
dard health exams and vaccina­. tions, sits next to an alternative medicine tent, which provides massages, herbal remedies and a plentiful supply of condoms in a 

Maxwell House coffee tin. 
Each week, the volunteers receive organic vegetables, eggs and dairy products from Siemon's employer, Organic Valley. The rest of the (non-organic) food is donat­ed by churches, individuals and international aid organizations. 
At one point, the kitchen was 
serving 2,500  meals  a  day,  
Siemon says.  Now, it  serves  
around 1,000.  

Entertaining the hurricane vic­tims is as important as feeding them, the volunteers say. Music blares constantly and bands often play during mealtime. And then there's that unique hippie brand of humor. 
"It's time to bleach the mag­gots!" one bearded man in a pink skirt bellows cheerfully as he sprays chemicals into a reeking garbage bin. 
The hippies are not actually cross-dressers, but on "Freaky Friday" volunteers adorn them­selves with the more bizarre items found amongst the donated clothing. 
"We're trying to give these peo­ple, after they gut their house for 12 hours, something else to think about," Siemon says. "And no one throws a party like a hippie." 
The volunteers have been a life­saver for 55-year-old Bay St. Louis resident Varnum "Skipper" Sheldon, who barely survived Katrina. 
"You can wake up in the morn­ing and have a smile coming over here and it's so wonderful," he says. "How important is it to our survival? I would say it's one of the most important things." 
Housing 
continued from page 1 
real estate broker and a Web master. 
"If [students] are looking for off-campus housing, Campus1 Housing is going to be their answer," said Joe Condit, vice president and director of sales for Campus1Housing. 
Burns and Condit said they hope to launch again at Notre Dame early next year with a much more comprehensive list of properties. The service is absolutely free for students, and there are no listing fees. 
"Our goal is to provide the students with a one-stop shop for off-campus housing where they see all the property man­agers, they see all the proper­ties, their parents can easily look at pictures and get the information they need," Burns said. 
Burns said Notre Dame is unlike most schools in that fewer students live off-cam­pus. 
"Mostly the people that will be hitting our Web site looking 

for housing will ·Tm always because I don't be juniors, looking for want tenants to maybe some get into a bid­
different ways to
sophomores -ding war on people that market my properties," he want to get off properties." said. "Under the campus and new program enjoy a little that they've got
Mark Kramer 
more freedom," set up, I like it a he said. owner lot better." Student feed­Kramer Properties Kramer said 
expectations, see that proper­ty ... and the deal ultimately gets done in that property manager's office. We found out that it's got to be that way. You cannot change that. We're adjusting to make the process that's already in place faster and more efficient and much easier than it's ever been before," Burns said. 
Mark Kramer, ow'ner of Kramer Properties and land­lord to many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, agrees with this principle. 
"I never want to get away from the personal level," Kramer said. "In fact, one of my complaints initially [with Campus1Housing] was, you know, I want to make sure students have an opportunity to see the properties first­hand, and I like to show them firsthand and have that inter­action with them. I think that's very, very important." 
Kramer, who advertises properties through the Web site, likes the continuing changes in CampuslHousing. 
''I'm always looking for dif­ferent ways to market my properties. I like the idea that it's not necessar­ily a bidding war 
back has played a big role in shaping and reshaping the Web site, Burns said. Initially, Campu-s1Housing had a con­tract with only one property manager in the South Bend area, but about a month ago, the Web site underwent a process of "reinventing the wheel." 
"What the students really want is this comprehensive list of off-campus housing," Burns said. "We have opened up our doors for business for all the property managers around Notre Dame." 
Originally, Campus1 Housing was launched as an auction Web site in which students could bid on properties. Again, student feedback changed that, and the Web site shifted focus. Campus1Housing now con­centrates on listing properties and connecting potential ten­ants with property managers in the most efficient way pos­sible. 
Burns and Condit said 
they've gotten a fairly even 
distribution of positive and 
negative feedback. They 
found out students liked the 
idea of being able to see all 
the properties and being able 
to contact the managers and 
set up meetings from the com­
fort of their dorm, but they 
did not like the auction for­
mat. 
Burns and Condit listened. 
They scrapped the auctioning 
that was once the key idea for 
their business. The Web site 
will be reconstructed accord­
ingly in early 2006. 
"We've adjusted our busi­ness model," Burns said. "We're moving from a trans­action-based Web site into a non-transaction-based Web 
_site. We found out that you cannot take the personal rela­tionship out of finding houses because you're not buying an MP3 player, you're living in a place. 
"You need to meet that 
manager, understand their 
Campus1Housing 

is not his main resource for renting out prop­erties, but that he sees it as a good supplement to his usual business. Under the old sys­tem, students didn't seem to be responding well, he said. 
"I haven't really had a lot of responses yet, but I think par­tially the reason for that is because [students] aren't aware of it," Kramer said. "I think as time goes on and they become more and more aware of it, they may take advantage of it, but the majority of my leases current­ly are coming from word of mouth, and also I've got my own Web site." 
Burns and Condit hope that they can kill two birds with one stone by further involving the students while advertising the site. 
"We want to put the power into the students' hands and say, 'Listen, we'll give you the tools, we'll show you what we've learned ... you figure out how to get the word out to the Notre Dame students,"' Condit said. 
Condit said Campus1Hou­sing cannot emphasize enough the importance of involving students not only in molding the Web site but also in being a part of it. 
"We have onsite marketing teams at every university we launch at. We have a person on campus who is basically our project manager, and he builds up a team. It's almost like an internship, and it actu­ally will be an internship next year," he said. ­
Burns likened Camp­usiHousing to a software provider. 
"We don't go into a property management company and say, 'Let us list your proper­ty,"' he said. "Really all we do is provide a platform where property managers can list their own properties." 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Tuesday, November 22, 2005 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 10 820.28 +53.95
}ones "~  ' Same:  Down:  Composite Volurr  
2,055  161  ,"1  2,121,735,230  

AMEX 1;715.45 +13;{3 NASDAQ 2,241.67 +14.60 NYS£ 7,676.64 +42.06 S&PSOO l ,254.85 +7.58 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 14,650.06 --30.37 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,497.90 -1.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) +0.24 +0.099 41.549 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.32 +0.09 28.16 SANDISK CP (SNDK) -16.65 -9.36 46.84 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.24 +0.04 17.06 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -1.43 -0.18 12.44 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.72 -0.34 46.58 10-YEAR NOTE -0.91 -0.41 44.61 5-YEAR NOTE -0.95 -0.42 43.89 3-MONTH BILL -0.43 -0.17 38.95 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.51 58.39 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) +3.30 490.20 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.15 86.55 
Excha Rates 

YEN 119.0750 
EURO 
0.8523 

POUND 0.5826 
CANADIAN$ 1.1830 
IN BRIEF 
Nation's GDP still predicted to grow 
WASIIINGTON -Despite turbulence from hurricanes and high energy prices, the econo­my is expected to log respectable growth this year and next, business economists say. 
Tho oeonomy, as measured by gross domes­tie product, is projected to grow 3.6 percent in 2005 and 3.3 percent in 2006, said the National Association for Business Economics. 
"Thn hurricane season failed to blow the oconomy ofT course," said Carl Tannenbaum, the association's vice president and chief economist at LaSalle Bank. 
Against this backdrop of' the economy's resiliency, the Federal Heserve is likely to con­tinue boosting short-term interest rates well into nnxt year to keep a lid on inflation, Tannenbaum said. 
The new estimate for GDP growth in 2005 is slightly higher than a NABE projection rnleased in September, while the fresh esti­mate for 2006 is slightly lower. GOP measures the value of' all goods and services produced within the United States. 
Europe opens arms market 
BHUSSELS, Belgium -European Union defense ministers adopted a plan Monday to open up their $35 billion arms industry to increased <:ross-border competition within the 25-nation bloc-a landmark move designed to cut costs for tight military budgets. · 
Thn nnw "code of conduct" is voluntary and nonbinding, hut it marks a breakthrough after decades efforts to persuadn nations to relax the protection of their tightly guarded national defense markets and allow Europn's defense eompanies to compote on a continentwide level. 
"It will mean a better deal for European tax­payers. and fi1r their armed forces. And it is a vital step for ensuring that our defense indus­tries remain globally competitive," said Javier Solana, the EU's foreign and security policy rep­resentative who chaired the meeting. 
Covernments have been able to proteet their national defense industry champions because military contracts have been largely excluded from Ell legislation that has ripped down barri­ers to trade within Europe in other sectors. The new rules will not apply to companies from out­side the EU. 
GM w-ill close plants, cut 30,000 jobs 
Automaker will cut 17 percent of its work force, close nine plants to reduce costs 
Associated Press 

DETHOIT -In the last few wonks, General Motors Corp. has been facing a near constant drumbeat of negative news and bank­ruptcy whispers, putting Chairman and CEO Hick Wagoner under consider­able pressure to speed up his turnaround plan. 
Wagoner sent employees a memo last week, assuring them that bankruptcy isn't on the radar at the world's largest automaker. He took further action Monday, say­ing the company plans to cut 30,000 hourly jobs and close 12 facilities by 2008. Tho announcement had been planned for next month, but the timetable was accelerated as GM shares plunged to their low­est level in 18 years. 
Still, investors weren't too satisfied. GM shares fell 47 cents, or nearly 2 percent, to dose at $23.58 Monday on the New York Stock Exchange. They have trad­ed in a 52-week range of $20.60 to $40.82. 
Wagoner was resolute, saying he continuns to have board members' confidence and hasn't considered step­ping down. 
"l have given no thought to anything but turning the business around," Wagoner said. "I wasn't brought up to run and hide when unless the current labor forced to suffer because of increasing competition from things get tough." agreement is drastically the failures of others," UAW Asian rivals. GM lost almost 
But the reaction of some revised," Casesa wrote in a President Ron Gettelfinger $4 billion in the first nine analysts suggested that the note to investors. said in a statement. months of this year. drumbeat will continue. It's unclear how much To get production in line "The decisions we are Merrill Lynch analyst John help GM can count on from with demand, GM will cut announcing today were Casesa said GM's plan its unions. The United Auto 30,000 jobs, which repre­very difficult to reach leaves many questions Workers called GM's plan sent 17 percent of GM's because of their impact on unanswered, including "devastating" and warned it North American hourly and our employees and the what the company will do will make negotiations salaried work force of communities where we live about its growing retiree more diflicult. 173,000, and close nine and work," Wagoner said. burden. The automaker · "Workers have no control assembly, stamping and "But these actions are nec­now has 2.5 retirees for over GM's capital invest­powertrain plants and three essary for GM to get its every active worker. ment, product development, parts facilities. GM's U.S. costs in line with our major 
"At some point this design, marketing and market share fell to 26.2 global competitors." becomes an untenable situ­advertising decisions. But, percent in the first 10 GM said the plant dosings ation and is the key reason unfortunately, it is workers, months of this year com­are part of a plan to shav<l that GM cannot shrink to a their families and our com­pared with 33 percent a $7 billion off its $42 billion competitive size; that is munities that are being decade ago, the result of annual bill for operations. 

Sony BMG faces anti-piracy software lawsuit 
process. It was filing a lawsuit in other security problems, Abbott said, 
Associated Press 

California Superior Court in Los echoing the findings of computer 
AUSTIN -Sony BMG Music Angeles. security researchers. Entertainment's troubles over anti­When XCP-enabled discs are "People buy these CDs to listen to piracy technology on music COs loaded into a computer -a neces­the music," Abbott said. "What they deepened Monday as Texas' attorney sary step for transferring music to do not bargain for is the consumer general and a California-based digi­Apple Computer Inc.'s iPods and invasion that is unleashed by Sony tal rights group said they were suing other portable music players -the BMG." the music company under new state CD automatically installs a program Sony executives have rejected tlw anti-spyware laws. that restricts copying and makes it description of their technology as 
The Texas lawsuit said the so­extremely inconvenient to transfer spyware. Ollicials for the New York­called XCP technology that Sony BMG songs into the format used by iPods. based label would not comment had quietly included on more than 50 Security researchers say XCP is Monday, saying the company does CD titles leaves computers vulnerable spyware because it secretly transmits not discuss pending litigation. to hackers. Sony BMG had added the details about what music the PC is The Texas spyware law allows tho technology to restrict to three the playing. Manual attempts to remove state to recover damages of up to number of times a single disc could the software, which works only on $100,000 in damages for oaeh viola­be copied, but agreed to recall the Windows PCs, can disable the PC's tion. Abbott said there were thou­discs last week after a storm of criti­optical drive. sands of violations, and that any cism. Texas Attorney General Greg money would go to the state. 
The Electronic Frontier Foundation Abbott accused Sony BMG of surrep­The California law under which the said Sony BMG needs to furthnr pub­titiously installing spyware because EFF was filing its lawsuit bans eol­licize the recall and compensate con­XCP masks Iiles that it installs. This leeting personally identifiable infor­sumers for costs associated with "cloaking" component can leave mation through dneeptive means and removing the software, an onerous computers vulnerable to viruses and lets consumers can sue for damages. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 8 Tuesday, November 22, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Censorship is a hate crime 
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Par Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPOIITS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.J@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DEsK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
OssERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents ofthe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Edicorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and colwnns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and must include contact infOrmation. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefC!aire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USP$ '.l99 2.4000) Is publi&hcd Monday Ihr~ flrid~y·excepr during exam ;utd vacation pcrimf1. Asuhscriptfon lo Tiu: Observer ~~·$100 for ~me academic ycu; $5-5 forunc: semeJte-r. 
The Observer is p11hl1lhed a.G POSTMASTER 024 South Oining H~ll Send ai{dres:s cor.f\iCtiom tol Nutr..:: Oamc, lN 46556.-0779 T!tcObserver , Periodical postage paid at No~ Dame P.O. Box:779 and additional mailing offiO$. 024 South Pining 1-h\1 
Notre Oa~. [N 46556--0779 
The: Ob$erver i~ amember ofthe As!>ociated Pr~. All ~production rigbt;S a.rc 
""""'"' 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News  Sports  
Maddie Hanna  Ken Fowler  
Katie Perry  Chris Khorey  
Marcela Berrios  Tim Kaiser  
Viewpoint  Scene  
Becca Rosswurm  Mark  
Graphics  Bemenderfer  
Graham Ebetsch  mustrator  
Robin Fallon  


After the infamous moment in which Janet Jackson's breast was accidental­ly bared during halftime of the 2004 Super Bowl, the Federal Communications Commission received thousands of com­plaints. What you may not know, how­ever, is that 98 per­cent of these com­plaints came from one organization: the Parents' Television CounciL Effectively, one rela­tively small group of people decided what was offensive for everyone else. 
In the United States, the FCC has the authority to levy fines against com­panies that broadcast material that is below "contemporary commm;ity stan­dards," whatever that means, and the motto of the Parents' Television Council: "Because our children are watching," is archetypal of the argu­ments in favor of large-scale expurga­tion. 
In fact, it is practically impossible to find any valid contention in favor of censorship that does not mention "the children." As noted by Marjorie Heins -director of the Free Expression Policy Project of the National Coalition Against Censorship -this fallacious argument can be traced back to Plato, when tales of the erotic exploits of the gods might "engender laxity of morals among the young." 
What I never understood, however, was how the FCC has any authority to abridge the First Amendment rights of adults whatsoever. 
Generally, it is argued that the fre­quencies of the EM spectrum are a "public good." This sentiment is shared by most paternalistic politi­cians and interest groups: we all own the airwaves, so we all have a control­ling stake in what is broadcast. Right? 
Actually, in the dictionary of the con-

Scott 
Wagner 
Live and Let Live or Die 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
J,_OO*: IRAQ. l'fll ~RRY 6-UT VI.!€' Neeo To POLL-OI.J,-:.. 
-ge.,;IDe;;:: 1;.ooNe.R o-R' L.ATe¢l. '"(ol.l·Re. GorJo.L& To H.Ave 'lo TA~e
CARe OF .. 
YouR:~eLF. 
temporary politicians, "public good" does not mean something that it is owned by all people. It means some­thing that is owned -and controlled -by the government. 
The truth of the matter is, censor­ship is another way for power-hungry people to grab their share of the authority pie. Interest groups like the Parents' Television Council lobby the un-elected FCC to levy fines and regu­late the speech of free individuals. "Changing the station" or "not buying a television" is somehow not a viable option, but begging the authorities for more control is. America is in a crisis of personal responsibility and, as always, the government is happy to oblige. 
Censorship, however, is not merely an abstraction of Washington. Believe it or not, Notre Dame-the abattoir of free speech that it is -is not immune from speech suppression. Let me be clear: this University is a private insti­tution and can oppress whomever it wants. But, as you may have discov­ered, some people actually believe that censorship is a Catholic virtue. 
Next semester, right on cue, the right-wing organizations on this cam­pus will begin their annual crusade against the play "The Vagina Monologues." It always seemed odd that a few people here felt the need to command me to not act in or see this play, especially considering that the show is voluntarily performed and attended by adults. However, until it is outlawed, the attacks will continue. 
As another example, the campus chapter of the NAACP recently had some student comedians banned from Legends because of jokes that were too "offensive." They did not meet with or consult the comedians, nor did Student Activities or Minority Student Services. The only difference between the NAACP and the campus anti­Monologue organizations is that the NAACP has succeeded. The comedians are banned until next year. 
Too many people seem to believe that somewhere, a right to not be offended exists. Fortunately there is no such right, but to look at the gnashing of teeth by religious and racial groups one would never know it. Political cor­rectness and the "think of the chil­dren" argument are merely mecha­nisms for whitewashing the speech of other individuals. Do not be fooled into thinking that censorship must be insti­gated by a government, however; as Notre Dame has already proven, silencing the voices of others can come in many insidious forms. 

If you are offended by a white person using the word "nigga" in a bar full of adults, and you are consequently will­ing to attack the fundamental rights of that person, you must reconsider the authority you have assigned yourself. The fact of the matter is: you have none, no matter how offended you are. 
So even if awoman's breast could possibly damage children, no one ­not even "the children"-has a right to watch television. Besides, if a nipple piercing is all it takes to destroy the minds of America's youth, perhaps they should not be watching television in the first place. 
Finally, I may not agree with what someone says, but I will always defend his or her right to say it. A central tenet of libertarianism is respecting the sovereignty of other people and tolerating their right to speak out. As Samuel Gompers, the first president of the American Federation of Labor, said in 1925, freedom of speech is "the right to say the things which displease ... the right to say things, even though they do a wrong." 
Has anyone offended you today? 
Scott Wagner is president of the College Libertarians and writes politi­cally incorrect, sometimes offensive satire for the Web site The Enduring Vision. He can be contacted at swagn­erl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If you must play, decide upon three things at the start: the rules of the game, the stakes and the quitting time." 
Chinese proverb. 
ISublllitaLetter
Ito tbe Editor at 
1www.ncisme .:.erver.eem 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The only thing bad about a holidap is it is followed by a non-holiday.' 
anonymous 
~~ 


. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Tuesday, November 22, 2005 page 9 
U-WIRE 

Students should spend tnore titne enjoying 'turkey day' 
Let's face it, Thanksgiving is an underappreeiated holiday. 
Every year, stores tear down llallowcen decora­tions and replaee them with garland, snow and plastie Santas. Blinking turkey string lights and ovnrsized singing pilgrims are nowhere to be seen. The commer­Sarah eializml-world skips this thankful Goldfarb holiday and heads straight to the gaudy holiday displays and over­
Daily Collegian
playnd Christmas soundtracks. Let 
Penn State 
me count the ways in which the 
University
tradition of Thanksgiving needs more loving. 

First ofT, it's non-denominational. At Christmas, manger scenes, pageants and dozens of songs mull ovnr thn birth of Christ. Even llanukkah celebrates a miracle that happened in a Jerusalnm Temple. The Christmas tree in the lobby of my public high school created controversy, but l'vn never heard anyone make a fit over turkey dec­orations hanging in the windows. 
The deeision over white or dark meat seems to be nvnryone's biggest concern on Thanksgiving Day. Although the original holiday was celebrated in honor of religious freedom and thanking God, now that idea has almost been completely eliminated from tho Thanksgiving agenda. The laek of religious lllHHtsiness alone is somnthing to be thankful for. Thanksgiving ofTnrs an official time to ref'loct on family, friends and kindness that you have experi­enend over the past year, without isolating specific religions. 
Hnligion asidn, thoro's also thn absence of com­mnreialization. 
The extent of Thanksgiving decorations consists of kindergarten turkey hands and the sparse cornu­eopia display. It's hard to find a company that spiHHls an excessive amount of money on 
Thanksgiving advertising, and I've yet to see a man crazy nights at Sigma Chi. dressed up as a giant turkey while screaming at It's a daylong eating fest complete with a smorgas­children to get their pictures taken with him. bord of food. Dieting is just not acceptable at 
The lack of commercialization also means Thanksgiving. It doesn't matter whether you're there arc no items for companies to try -----on a low-carb diet or Jenny Craig. 
to sell us. It is a rare American holi­day, no gift-giving or unneces­sary material objects. 
Thanksgiving marks the last day of peace before the mall insanity and wallet emptying begins. During Thanksgiving, it's nice to see your family because you want to enjoy their company, instead of focusing on what's hiding behind that rein­deer-wrapped package. 
The break is also a time to reflect on what we are most thankful for: no classes or professors for five days. 
As you head home for some quality time with your family, it's nice to pretend you're com­pletely done with the semes­ter and able to forget about the finals that patiently await your return. Friends you haven't seen 
Thanksgiving is a day to splurge. Turkey, stuffing, a plethora of 
pies, gravy boats and 13 dif­ferent casseroles all con­tribute to this day of 
overeating. When the food is all gone, and after the long day of football and Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade-watching, 
intense fighting ovor the wishbone, the tryptophan from the turkey starts settling in, another Thanksgiving has 
come to an end. And as soon as 
grandma puts away the leftovers, it is off to the mall to prnpare 
for the next holiday. 

This column first appeared in the Nov. 21 issue of the Daily Collegian. 
the daily publication at Penn State University. The views expressed in this column 
since you've lounged on the -beaeh months are those of the author and not necessari­earlier are all horne and eager to hear about your ly those of The Observer. 
Break a great opportunity to catch up 
This week we face a great challenge: a short week. 

While some may arguo that we should not be fon~ed to attend class the week of Thanksgiving as somn students havn miles and time zones to travnrse before they sit with their families in front of a turkey and other sorts of yummy goodies, Staff we are expected to attend nonnthe-Editorial loss. 
So what to rnakn of these throe, and in some eases, two days of The Mirror 
dass'! University of As mueh as possible. With only Northern nirw days of class time before finals Colorado role around, now is tho time to 
take advantage of every lecture in order to better prepare for the tests that await us. Now is certainly an easy time to slack off' and procrastinate, but such aetions will only lead to dire stress in the future when time really is short. 
No one wants to work on homework and cateh up on everything that has been put otT, but this time away from school is a great opportunity to do just that. 
Ignoring all the work that needs to be done could leave you frantic during the last week of classes. 
So make the most of these few days and see how much it pays of in a few weeks. Of course you should enjoy the beautiful fall weather and delicious food the season has to offer, but you may want to consid­er catching up on your roading bofore you fall asleep. 
You may want to get a jump-start on your torm paper and begin reading over your notes. Surely a littlo timo spont now will pay ofT in the near future. 
This editorial first appeared in the Nov. 21 issue of The Mirror. the daily publication at the llni11ersity of Northern Colorado. 
The l!iews expressed in this editoria1 are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obserl!er. 
Surprised by vegetarianism on Thanksgiving 
Ah, the tempting tastes of Thanksgiving. Fluffy rnaslwd potatons. Tangy eranborrios. Spicy pump­kin pie. Savory stuf'fing. A plump, juicy Tofurky. Tofurky'! You bet. 
In the Thanksgiving production at my house, the rolo of the bird is played by a 
Bobble

spunky understudy made of whnat 
Mullins

and soy, whose dov11r moniker has become a standard holiday ono­linnr on late-night talk shows. No FSView& birds will be harmed in the mak­Florida ing of my meal. Flambeau 
It wasn't always this way. .Just Florida State liko millions of' other families, we University had a turkey on our table 13 years ago, but suddenly, unexpectedly, we were struck by the irony of giving thanks for a bird who really did­n't have much to be thankful for. I was caught off guard by the overwhelming urge to get rid of the turkey and never do this again. 
My daughter and I had already been flirting with vegetarianism for some time. It startnd when we got a mailing from an animal protection group that told the story of a cow who arrived at the slaugh­terhouse unable to walk. When poking and prod­ding failed to move her, tho cow was dragged off thll truek by tying one end of a rope to her leg, the other to a post in the ground, and driving the truck out from under her. Her pelvis broko when she hit the ground. She was left there for hours in the blazing sun. At one point, shn was attacked by a paek of' stray dogs. 
A witness snapped a photo of her lying there, hind legs splayed out awkwardly to either side, blood running down her face. The witness asked the stockyard staff to put the animal out of her mis­ery, but it wasn't until well into the evening-more than eight hours after the cow's ordeal began -that a butcher f'inally arrived to administer a fatal bullet. 
Apparently, it is common for animals to arrive at slaughterhouses too weak, siek or injured to move. So common that they have a niekname for them: "downers." This poor animal's fate was certainly a downer for me. Hamburgers suddenly lost their appeal. I must have felt guilty enough to send the group a donation, beeause the mailings started eoming regularly after that. Every time I read about the plight of one animal or another, for weeks aftor I couldn't bear the thought of eating them. 
Weeks stretched into months. Our family meals started to center on vegetables instead of meat. We ate spaghetti with marinara sauec, hold the meat­balls. We ate bean burritos, corn chowder, curried chickpeas and veggie stew. We tossed zucchini, squash, eggplant and corn-on-the-cob onto the grill. I started experimenting with exotk cuisines and "faux" foods like soy milk and chonso, tofu, veggie burgers and "Notdogs." My husband, always thrilled to get a home-cooked meal, gamely gavn all of my nfforts an onthusiastic thumbs up, !Won the ones that were a little too experimental. 
Bofore I knew it, a year had gorw by. Thanksgiving rolled around. Out of habit, I pro­pared tho same meal I had since tlw kids were lit­tle. All of their favoritns-induding turkey. It was­n't until I set the bird on thn table that. it hit mo. I hadn't eaton meat sinee last Thanksgiving. If I could go a year without meat, why eat it at all'! 
Now we count our blessings around an all-vege­tarian Thanksgiving dinner. Here's what we've learned in the last 13 years: Tofurky is good for the heart. Physically, yes, but that's not what we think about on Thanksgiving. Wo think about how it hnlps our hearts spiritually. And we givo thanks for the privilege of feeling good, on No-Turkey Day and always. 
This column first appean~d in the Nov. 21 issue of the FSView & Florida State Flambeau, the daily publication at Florida State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obserl!er. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE


page 10 
lscii!'&fb:Rn 
The ultimate college movie 

A lot of us first learned about col­lege not through campus visits but through the magic of cinema. From our first (or in some Notre Dame cases, only) frat party to the winning football game that 
changed the life of ing but more that there's always everyone it touched, somewhere we would rather be our vision of univer­than in elass. Some movies pres­sity life has been ent the same things we learn in inspired by the class but in a more palatable, movies. glossy form. 
While there is no The strange and creepy blend of perfect college movie 1980s music, science fiction and -there are just too giant evil rabbits present in many pieces of the "Donnie Darko" may not seem college puzzle for any academic, but pop it in and watch film to do justice to -philosophical debate emerge. there are a lot of Major subjects of philosophical 

Molly Griffin 
Assistant Scene Editor 

good ones. In terms 
of representing life 
on campus, each movie usually only manages to get 
one thing right. But if you combined 
the best parts of every movie, you 
just might end up with the perfect 
(but maybe not accurate) look at undergraduate life. 
Sports 
Clearly for any Notre Dame stu­dent, the movie "Hudy" is a hugely inl'luential piece of collegiate cinema. It shows the beauty of the campus, the spiritual nature of the school and the intense love of football that the place inspires. Hudy's "never say die" attitude about getting into Notre Dame may also become more rele­vant as it continues to get harder and harder to get accepted. The underdog story at the heart of "Hudy" makes it a favorite among sports fans and Irish aficionados alike, and it provides a fairly accu­rate look at the "sports" facet of the college experience. The College Work Load 
The tagl-ine of "Old School" is "All of the fun of college, none of the edu­cation," and if you've ever pulled an all-nighter in the library, you've probably wished it were true. While not in any way a realistic represen­tation of the college academic load, it is an ideal one -no work and all play. It does accurately show just how much time and effort some stu­dents will devote in order to throw great parties. Campus Life 
It can be argued that there is no greater college movie than "Animal House." It can also be argued that few films are a less-accurate depic­tion of university life. Docs anyone care? No. We all want to save our fraternity (even girls), party hard and still manage to graduate unscathed and with nothing on our permanent records. Like "Old School," work is a distant thought in the background of the film, which. along with singing "Shout" at a toga party, is something we all really wouldn't mind during dreaded finals week. 
"Hevenge of the Nerds" is another important film in the college oeuvre. For every student who's spent Friday night in the library, every engineer or pre-med who's questioned their major and anyone who was ever a "mathlete" or debate team member, the movie is as inspiring as any sports film. It shows us that, like "Hudy," the underdog can win. And they can win with brains instead of 
.._______________ ----­
brawn, a calculator instead of calis­thenics. Lectures 
Sometimes -okay, most of the time -lectures are boring. It's not so much that professors are bor­
debate, such as fate? Check. 
Arguments about the nature of 
free will? Double check. Science-
related subjects like wormholes? You've got it. Wouldn't philosophy class be a little more interesting with Jake Gyllenhaal and a man in a rab­bit suit thrown in? The movie also gets bonus literary points for a dis­cussion of Graham Greene's short story, "The Destructors" and a debate about the lyrical beauty of the phrase "cellar door." 
Another movie alternative to learn­ing through lecture is "Shakespeare in Love," which takes Shakespeare, adds Gwyneth Paltrow and Joseph Fiennes and removes the physical act of reading. While it's not exactly like watching Shakespeare in perform­ance, it does have enough "in" jokes about Shakespeare to make every person who has studied Renaissance literature feel superior for "getting" it. The Post-Graduation Blues 
We all know that it's coming. We can deny it, postpone it with promis­es of graduate school and pray to win the lottery, but the real world beyond college is fast approaching. 
Few films deal with life after col­lege, but "The Graduate" shows us that life after college can get, well, complicated. The questions about life after graduating and not wanting to be the same as the preceding gener­ation are always pertinent, and it reveals that it can be hard to find your place in the world after leaving the insular world of academies. Benjamin Braddock's affair at least assures us, in a strange way, that life after college will always be, at the very least, interesting. 
So, to summarize, the recipe for the perfect college movie experience is as follows: one part inspirational athlete from "Hudy," the minimal work load of "Old School," a liberal amount of the campus life seen in "Animal House" and "Hevenge of the Nerds," free-spirited lectures inspired by "Donnie Darko" and "Shakespeare in Love" and a pinch of the postgraduate life from "The Graduate." 
There may not be a way to make your undergraduate years last forev­er, but you can piece together your own version of it thanks to the magic of cinema. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgrif­fon@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
Tuesday, November 22, 2005 
BOOK REVIEWS 
Eden's 'Touchdown 
that organize cross country trips and set upBy SEAN SWEANY massive tailgate parties before games. One Scene Critic amazing story tells of a parish celebrating a 
Mass with their pastor from the back of an Wake up the echoes. Shake down the SUV amidst hundreds of other fanatic, beer­thunder. Win over all. drinking tailgaters. 
These legendary lines conjure various Eden devotes much of the book to fandom images of grf!atness for any Notre Dame on the Internet, mostly on the NDNation.com football fan. Notre Dame fans, however, are fan website. NDNation, eonsidered the num­different from any other college football fans ber-one place on the Internet for Notre because to root for Notre Dame means Dame news and talk, is a place where Notre cheering for much more than just a football Dame fans increasingly congregated during team. the 2004 season to armchair quarterback, 
"Touchdown Jesus: Faith and Fandom at coaeh and administrate. While Eden uses Notre Dame" ($25, Simon and Schuster, NDNation as the starting point for his exami­2005) by 1997 alumnus Scott _Eden is a book nation of the 2004 season, he also tells of the that explores exactly what it means to be a storied history of Notre Dame football and its Notre Dame fan from the perspectives of stu­particular struggles in the past decade. dents, alumni and the sometimes neither It is at this point where Eden relates how Irish nor Catholic "subway alumni." football is one of the key components to the 
"Touehdown Jesus" aceomplishes this University. I lis description tells of the politi­while telling the story of the turbulent 2004 cal machinations at Notre Dame in recent football season and controversial firing of years. He takes a no-holds-barred approach former Irish head football coach Tyrone in telling the intertwined stories involving Willingham three years after his hiring. the end of careers for both Willingham and Eden narrates through the season by intro­former University President Father Edward ducing readers to various groups of Notre Malloy. The stories give much more flavor to Dame fans from all walks of life who make the messy situation than the media reports weekly pilgrimages to South Bend every fall. of the last year. Eden covers sensitive issues Readers witness the passion of these fans including the commercialization of Notre 
Dame, Willingham's alleged unwritten performanee clause in his eontract and Malloy's infa­mous "embarrassment" by the University at the firing of Willingham. 
These stories and others am certainly captivating since Eden does not sugarcoat them, but the real focus is on the response from the Notre Dame fan base to the trying times of the past decade. Most of the fans in 

'SSX On Tour' provid 


By JOSH TALLEY Scene Critic 
As winter rolls around, people find them­selves spending less and less time outside and more inside getting cabin fever. But this year, to help get into that winter spirit with­out actually having go outside (and to keep us from losing out minds), EA Sports BIG has released another in its line of successful SSX games. But this year's is even slieker, tighter and more aesthetieally pleasing. 
SSX: On Tour is the fourth game in the highly-acclaimed winter extreme sports series. In the past, garners have been eon­tent with snowboarding to their hearts' con­tents, but not this year. The addition of skis to the mix ereates a new visual spectrum, as the game play is nearly the same but has new animations for trieks. Even though they are similar, there are slight differences in the way you can control the character. Skiing in the game is slightly more compli­cated and takes a tiny bit more skill to pull off. It adds a fair amount of replay and the desire to want to create more eustom ehar­aeters. 
But, even before the player gets to ehoose between skis or boards, he is bombarded with a completely revamped visual style. 
While past games in the series have gone for comical or icy, this time around tosses you straight into the doodle-covered note­book of a heavy-metal-loving high schooler. This can be seen everywhere in the game from loading screens featuring a unicorn playing a double-guitar to dancing donkeys to U.F.O.'s in the background. If nothing else, the game should be praised for its incredible use of style. 
The rock 'n roll theme doesn't stop there though. It is infused even into the game's soundtrack. This time around, the game has a licensed soundtrack full of great new artists. The only problem with this is that they severely underused their soundtrack by constantly playing the same songs over and over -instead of all the songs -and also by having only a few that are capable of being played during the menus. 
Also new to the series is the creation of customizable characters in order to put a lit­tle of your personality into the game. While there are not too many options when it comes to what the characters look like, with a little imagination and the help of the humongous wardrobPlaccessories menus in the game, the gamer can create a unique look to rock 'n roll down the mountain. Also, 
the craziness of some of the 
outfits makes the game fun. 
Forget buying new boards or 

skis, buy the panda costume 
instead. And the player can 
unlock all the racers (and some 

secret ones) by completing sin­
gle player and finishing mis-T 
sions. ell( 
Unlike SSX 3, the open moun-low 

tain has been removed and a b 
replaced with The Tour. This boo 

single-player experience takes tha 




THE OBSERVER 
CENE

inw in alltlll'flP. lt.hough this is EdPn's first wl:.it.ing nfl'ort. hook has a distinct flourish that makPs it 
vnry nasy to road. Thn tone is vnry eonversa­t.iorml, almost. as if' 1\dnn is telling lhP rivnting storins in pnrson. Ednn's best writing trait, though, is that he understands Nolrn Dame. lie "gnts it," as poopIn likn to say about vari­ous Nolrn Damn personalities. lin is able to captun~ thn spirit of the eombination of secu­lar football and tho Catholic. rllligion in his hook just as tho Touchdown Jesus mural dons on tho faen of thn llesburgh Library. This hook shows tho eharaclnr of Notre llanw fims and what it means to bn a mem­bnr of t.lw "Notrn DamP Family." In this new chapter of Notrn Damn history. "Touchdown .Jnsus" is onn book nvnry family nwrnber should road. 
Contact Scan Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 
~s rocking experience 
On Tour" marks the introduction of skis to the classic snowboarding game. time down the slope Is the most stylish experience to date. 
·p Pntin•ly on one giant mountain fpatur­1:~ nnw runs, I :~!i rhaiiPngns to bn Hnplislwd and 41J nwdals to hn namnd. 1 Pwry rhaiiPngP you accomplish morP n up. TIH• diiTPrPrH'PS in tlw missions nsPIVPs an• also a lot of fun. Whiln tlwre I tlw basic ran• to llw linish, t.rirk-ofTs rolll't't.ion missions, tlwrn arn also rww s surh as grind l'or spncilit: dist<tnces, 
off tlw snow for a rnrtain amount of , galhPr a spPdliod amount of air limP PsrapP from tlw ski-patrol. 

P ront.rols of t.lw ganw arP simpln gh. Most ol' tlw buttons contain prn­1grabs, lrirks or twPaks. Tlwrn is also 
1ost button. which takes away from thn nwlPr. and a jump button to lwlp got lit tII' hit. of PXI.ra !wight of thnjumps. 
Orw can also link togPtlwr tri1~ks in com­bos to incrnasn your boost mntor !'astor. Wlwn tho boost. is l'illod all tho way, thn ganwr ean pull off a Monstnr trick with a !lick of tlw right thumbstick whiln doing any otlwr trirk. Not only 1~an you do tlwrn while in t.lw air, you can do Monstnr grinds oil' of rails. logs or anything Plse you think you ean grind oil' of (try grinding thn helieoptor). 
This garnn adds sornn grnat stylizod ele­nwnts to thn sorios, and the introdudion of skis is also a groat. It has groat garno play length, upwards of' :w hours. Whilo the ganw play and graphies arn both aging nice­ly. it dons f'ool a litl111 old. This is a ganw worth your timo. 
Contact Josh Talley at jtalley2@nd.edu 
page II 

DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
'Ibrahitn' fails to itnpress 
By COURTNEY WILSON 
Scene Critic 
A French l'ilm with English subtitles, "Monsieur Ibrahim" is set in a poor Parisian noighborhood during the 1960s. 
Pierre Boulanger plays tho part of Moses -a young boy abandoned by his mothnr at an age too narly to remmnber and thoref'orn forcnd to live alone with his miserably-unstable and critical f'athnr (Gilbert Molki) in a mel­light distriet of l'aris. 
A large portion of' the movie dnpiets thn growing frustrations of' Moses' fatlHH as lw rPI.urns homn every evening, incrnasingly morn angry and dnprnssml. But having just turnnd 14, Moses is monl eager than ever to nxpnrienec thn things which, until this limn, have rmnainnd distant and only obsnrved through his bodroom win­dow. In an attempt to portray his readiness for manhood, thn movie nmphasizns his overwhelming excite­ment to bnHtk tho piggy bank of his youth in nxehangn for brinf' sexual nxehangns with some local strnet walkers who stroll regularly through his neighborhood. 
llownvnr. it is Moses' daily trips across the str1111t to the local l'ood sup­ply stores that initiai.P his develop­ment and hnightcn his sonsn of' matu­rity. Monsieur Ibrahim (()mar Sharif'), thn store owner and a Sul'i Muslim. takes a knnn intnrnst in the young Jewish boy at a very critieal time in both or thPir lives. Each day, the boy eomPs into the store f'or his daily meal prnparations, and each limn lw is pre­sented with sonwtimes humorous and sometimes insightf'ul eomnwnts on lifo as nxpnrienend by the storn ownnr. 
Comically at first. Ibrahim bngins by ofTnring "Momo" suggnstions l'or l'nnd­ing his grumpy and insolent rather by nneouraging him to disguise eat food as pate. Latnr. hownver, hn moves on to nxpn)ss somn abbreviated philo­sophical perspnetivn on lifn. But through his kind words ol' wisdom and fatherly advien, Momo finds thn parental f'igure that has bonn gnnnral­ly remiss throughout his lil'n. 
As a Persian from the (;olden Crescent. Ibrahim is regularly stigma-
Monsieur Ibrahim 
Director: Francois Dupeyron 
riter: Eric-Emmanuel Schmitt Starring: Omar Shariff, Pierre Boulanger, Gilbert Melki 

tiznd by thn surrounding community as an Arab. llownvPr. as a Sul'i Muslim who is both chnPrl'ul and humhiP. tlw advien he passns on to young Momo comns not only !'rom thn study of' his Koran. hut l'rom his !wart. Orw ol' t.lw l'irst suggnstions Ibrahim makns to Morno is for him to smiln morn, as it will makP him irHTnasingly happiPr. 
Thn climax is whnn Momo's l'at.hnr losns his job and dnsnrts him to latP!' r.ommit suil'idn. It 1~onws as no sur­prisn that Ibrahim is Llwrn to ronsoln his sorrows. At Momo's own n•quPst, hownvnr, stops anl taken to make Ibrahim his adoptlld l'athnr. I rn nw d i atn I y t. h P o I d m an a~~ c n p t s Momo as his own son and tak«'s him on a spiritual cross-country journey baek to his homnland. This trip is rnnant. to mark a most significant JWri­od in both thnir lives, as t.lwy arll apparently able to opnn tlwir lwarts to God and onP anotlwr whilP expPrinnc­ing the beauty ol' the world that sur" rounds them. 
llowovPr, as t.lw movin rwars Pnd. tlw dirnetion ol' its conrlusion hneornes notiePably limitPcl and t.lwn~­l'orn is l'ordbly Inn with an wulnniahly laeklustnr rlosn. llad thn viPWilr ini­tially bonn Pru·hantnd hy t.hP movitl's fairy talP-lih qualitins, tlw story's m e d i ocrP ~~ o n c lu s i o n w o ul d Ii k P Iy provP disappointing. WhilP it is Pasy to urH~ovnr t.lw ovnrall positivity and nwdioern lifp thnnws. tlw plot ru•vpr l'ully dPivns into any underlying issuns such as racism and class distinction. 
Whiln "MonsiPur Ibrahim" is obvi­ously a movin dPdirat.Pd to straightfor­ward spirituality and kindiH•artnd plnasurns, it still lacks mwugh motiva­tional qualitins to hold any long last­ing impression. 
Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of sonyctassics.com Monsieur Ibrahim, right, played by Omar Shariff, mentors Momo (Pierre Boulanger) as they walk through a Paris city street. 


...,
, .... ~ . 
.~
.. ... .... ~-.. 
• I •. •

.ti ... .. J.Af-.i ~ ~ .~ .i~. ..... I>. . " . 
page 12 Tuesday, November 22, 2005 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Irish take confidence out of close lVin over Minnesota 
Notre Dame had six top-S finishes Sunday against the Gophers 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sport:S Writer 
Notre Dame completed an emotional comeback Sunday night, edging out host Minnesota to finish first in the 10-team Minnesota Invitational. 
Entering Sunday, the third day of competition, the Irish had compiled only 476 points, and they trailed Wisconsin by 80 points. 

But six top-5 finishes on Sunday boosted the Irish past the Badgers and allowed them to hold off the surging Golden Gophers by a score of 722-707. 
Irish coach Carrie Nixon was pleased with her team's refusal to quit. 
"We started out slowly on the first day, which is typically our weakest day," she said. "But the girls kept their focus on the goal, which was winning the meet." 
Sunday's comeback started two top-5 finishes in the 200­meter backstroke, as Ann Barton finished third with a time of 2:02.06 and Caroline Johnson finished fifth with a time of 2:02.93. Johnson's mark of 2:02.93 was nearly four seconds better than her preliminary time. 
Julia Quinn continued the Irish comeback with a second­place finish in the 200 breast­stroke with a time 2:16.12. Next came the third place fin­ish for the 400 freestyle relay team of Johnson, Christa Riggins, Rebecca Grove, and Katie Carroll. 
Finally, Notre Dame sealed the victory with second-and third-place finishes in the ZOO­meter butterfly by Carroll and Casey Wagner. 
Overall, the Irish finished 
with 15 top-3 finishes. 

"It was a total team effort," Nixon said. "We really appeared to be together on the same page, and that is very exciting." 
The other major highlight of the weekend was Carroll's per­formance in the 400 individual medley (IM). Carroll, with a time of 4:15.34, achieved an NCAA "A" cut time, which guarantees her a spot in the NCAA championships not only for the 400 IM but also for the five events in which she has achieved a "B" cut time. Carroll is the first Irish swim­mer this season to qualify for the NCAA championships. 
This past weekend's win sig­nifies the continued improve­ment of the team this season. After starting the season with close losses to Cal and Purdue, the Irish have improved steadily, winning two dual meets building up to their vic­tory this past weekend. 
"Sunday night's win was a huge confidence booster for us," Nixon said. "We swam well against Cal and Purdue, but we lost. To go in and swim with some of the best teams in the country and win was great for us." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
NCAA MEN'S BASKEBALL 

Texas wins thriller over West Virginia, 76-75 
Texas, which trailed by 10 points. iar off-guard spot, with fresh­spark in the second half. ,
Demon Deacons down 

points early in the second half, man Harvey Hale playing point. The transfer from Division II Bulldogs in 2K Sports went up 72-71 on Kenton Wake Forest 79 The change was designed not Presbyterian scored eight of his Paulino's 3-pointer with just UNC-Asheville 63 only to give Gray more scoring 10 points in a 2-minute span ofCollege Hoops Classic over 2 minutes left. But Frank Justin Gray paced a balanced opportunities, but to cut down the second half to help the Young answered with a basket offense with 16 points, Trent on his turnovers. Deacons pull away. Drum 
Associated Press 

25 seconds later and Gansey hit Strickland scored 14 and No. 24 He had 27 in the previous swished a 3-pointer to make it 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. a layup with a minute to go, giv­Wake Forest finally got a three games, including 10 in a 62-47, then added a layup off a 
LaMarcus Aldridge made a put­ing West Virginia a 75-72lead. breather with a victory over double-overtime victory over nifty feed by Gray. After Omar 
back with 3.6 seconds left and After the Mountaineers' pesky UNC-Asheville on Monday Texas Tech in the consolation Collington had a shot blocked 
blocked a last-second shot to lift Johannes Herber and Kevin night. game of the tournament. It by Eric Williams, Drum fed 
No. 2 Texas to a 76-75 victory Pittsnogle missed the front ends The Demon Deacons (4-1) fin­worked for the most part -Gray for a 3 and later drove 
over No. 13 West Virginia on of 1-and-1 opportunities, ished third in the 2K Sports Gray still produced on offense, inside for a three-point play. 
Monday night in the semifinals Tucker's follow shot got Texas College Hoop Classic, and their and his only turnover came on a That made it 70-48, and the 
of the Guardians Classic. within 75-74 with 15.4 seconds run of four games included two double-dribble in the waning Bulldogs (0-2) never recovered. 
Daniel Gibson hit six 3-point­remaining. Pittsnogle missed that went to overtime. The loss seconds of the first half. Joe Barber scored 17 points for ers and scored 20 points to lead another 1-and-1 with 14.7 sec­came to Florida in the semifi­And Hale finally made a shot, Asheville, and teammate Oliver Texas (3-0), which will meet onds to go, and Aldridge con­nals of the event, another one driving for a layup with about 3 Holmes had 11. either No. 7 Kentucky or No. 18 verted after misses by Paulino that went down to the wire. 1/2 minutes left to improve to 1-Yet Wake Forest had some Iowa in Tuesday night's champi­and Brad Buckman. It also dropped Wake Forest for-21 in the past three games. trouble' finding offensive conti­onship game. P.J. Tucker added Aldridge then blocked a last­five spots in The Associated Michael Drum, a walk-on who nuity without Paul, their All­19 points for the Longhorns and second layup attempt by Mike Press poll. initially took Chris Paul's spot in American guard who left for the Aldridge finished with 15 points Gansey, who led the For the first time this season, the lineup, came off the bench J'1BA after his sophomore sea­and 14 rebounds. Mountaineers (2-1) with 28 Gray started at his more famil-for the first time and provided a son. 
NBA 

Portland disciplines Patterson for cursing at McMillan 
Associated Press Blazers GM John Nash said in a team that was without several career, and his play merits with player misbehavior, per­
statement released Monday. key players. more time than he is getting sonnel changes from the front 
PORTLAND, Ore. -The Trail "We will continue to demand a Patterson's tirade over play­with the Blazers. As a result, I office down, fan disenchant­Blazers have placed forward higher level of professionalism ing time came during the have had conversations with ment and two years without a Ruben Patterson on the inactive and personal responsibility team's huddle between the John Nash about how to best postseason. list after he cursed at coach from all of our players or we third and fourth quarters. handle the situation." The new coach has vowed to Nate McMillan during Sunday's will continue to take appropri­"It is clear to me that the Fegan would not say whether get his team under control, but loss to the New York Knicks ate action." Blazers have made a decision Patterson has requested a trade in addition to Patterson, he has over his lack of playing time. The Blazers lost to the Knicks to develop younger players, to another team. already clashed with star for­
Patterson will remain in 103-92, committing 23 which is their prerogative," McMillan, who came to ward Zach Randolph, ejecting Portland while the rest of the turnovers, allowing 18 points said Dan Fegan, Patterson's Los Portland this season after five him from practice after team is on a six-game road trip. off offensive rebounds and vir­Angeles-based agent. years as coach of the Seattle Randolph said something that 
"We will not tolerate this type tually not bothering to show up "Unfortunately, Ruben SuperSonics, inherited a young, displeased McMillan during a of behavior from any player," on defense against a New York Patterson is at the prime of his troubled team that has dealt drill. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED FoR RENT 

123 ND Ave. 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath. HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 Stop overpaying for rent. 
bdrms includes all utilities,local Visit BlueGoldrentals.com 

Call574-229-0149. phone, PERSONAL 
New 3-4 Bedroom Homes, START @$70 tor a 5 hour event! WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM 908 SB Ave: Roomy 6·7 bdrm home washer/dryer,security system. 3 full Baths, UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Responsible for promoting brands, HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532· 4 blocks to ND. 2 baths, w/d, broad-$400/student. 2+ Car Garage, not go it alone. If you or someone distributing samples/brochures & 1408 band internet incl. Avail. 574-315-2509 Fireplace, you love needs confidential support demonstrating products to con-Cathedral Ceilings, or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. sumers. Part-time & weekends 4-6 KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES 06-07 & 07-08 school year. ndstudentrentals.com 2006 10x20 Deck, Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more hours. Apply at www.eventsandpro· FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07 SPRING SEMESTER NOW AVAIL· Close to Campus. information, see our bi-weekly ad in motions.com SCHOOL YEAR. CLOSE TO CAM-327 Hill St: NEED A HOME ABLE. $1700 monthly. THE OBSERVER. 
PUS. 4 BEDROOMS, UP TO 10 TODAY? NEED A SECOND Available Aug. 06/07, HOLIDAY HELP $17.25 base-appt. BEDROOMS. CALL 315·5032 ASK CHANCE? Very nice 3 bdrm home. Closest house to campus. 2-min. Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 flex. schedules, cust. sales/service, FOR KRAMER. Close to ND & Corbys. Broadband walk to library. Call574-232-4527, Days from $299! Includes Meals, no exp. nee., cond. apply, all ages internet option. W/D & alarm system Fully furnished,new carpet & appli-269-683-5038. MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, 18 & older, Call Now, Start After GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH· avail. Move in today. ances. 2-car garage. Avail Now. Acapulco, Jamaica From $499! Finals! South Bend 574·273-3835 BORHOODS 06/07 & 07/08 Call Joe Crimmins 574·229·3659 or Just bring clothes. 3-6 BDRM HOMES FOR 06/07. Campus Reps Needed! Indianapolis 317-253-2734 andersonNDrenta\s.com 57 4·233-email PromoCode:31 www.springbreak-Bloomington 812-330-1104 9947 JCrimmins@ myLandGrant.com John 949-456·0343. $895. ALSO NOW.329-0308 travel.com 1·800·678-6386 


OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, November 22, 2005 
BCS Top 25 
team prev. prt. 

1 usc 1 .9807 2 Texas 2 .9791 3 Penn State 4 .8900 4 LSU 5 .8372 5 Virginia Tech 6 .8294 6 Ohio State 7 .7841 7 Oregon 10 .7340 8 NOTRE DAME 9 .6908 9 Miami 3 .6718 10 Auburn 13 .6333 11 West VIrginia 12 .5813 12 UCLA 11 .5787 13 TCU 14 .4547 14 Alabama 8 .4115 15 Georgia 16 .4081 16 Texas Tech 19 .3786 17 Wisconsin 20 .2587 18 Boston College 24 .2573 19 Fresno State 17 .2508 20 Louisville 18 .2423 21 Georgia Tech NR .2207 22 Michigan 15 .2132 23 Florida 22 .1602 24 Florida State NR .1345 25 Northwestern NR .0831 
NBA 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic 

~~~am reeord pore. strnak GB 
Philadelphia 7-5 .583 W1 0.0 New Jersey 5-4 .556 W2 0.5 Boston 4·5 .444 W1 1.5 New York 3-7 .300 W1 3.0 Toronto 1-9 .100 W1 5.0 
Eastern Conference, Central 

tnam record pnrc. streak GB 
Detroit 8-1 .889 L1 0.0 Cleveland 8-2 .800 W7 0.5 Indiana 6-3 .667 W2 2.0 Milwaukee 5·3 .625 l1 2.5 Chicago 4-5 .444 W1 4.0 
Eastern Conference, Southeast 

tNtm record perc. streak GB 
Miami 6-4 .600 L1 0.0 Washington 5-4 .556 l3 0.5 Orlando 3-6 .333 L2 2.5 Charlotte 3-8 .273 L2 3.5 Atlanta 0-9 .000 L9 5.5 
Western Conference, Northwest 

t(~am rneol'd pen~. streak GB Minnesota 5-4 .556 W2 0.0 Denver 6-5 .545 W3 0.0 Seattle 5-5 .500 W3 0.5 Portland 3-5 .375 L2 1.5 Utah 4-7 .364 L5 2.0 
Western Conference, Pacific 

team record pere. streak GB 
L.A. Clippers 8-2 .800 W3 0.0 Golden State 6-5 .545 l1 2.5 Phoenix 4-5 .444 L1 3.5 L.A.lakers 4·6 .400 L2 4.0 Sacramento 4-6 .400 L1 4.0 
Western Conference, Southwest toam rncord perc. streak GB San Antonio 8·2 .800 W3 0.0 Dallas 7-2 .778 W5 0.5 Memphis 1·4 .636 L 1 1.5 New Orleans 4-6 .400 L1 4.0 Houston J.7 .300 L3 5.0 
around the dial 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL EA Sports Maui Invitational, 7 p.m, ESPN Cleveland State at North Carolina, 9 p.m, ESPNU 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Toledo at Bowling Green, 7 p.m, ESPN2 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S wrRE SERVICES 
NHL 
Associated Press 

DETHOIT -Hed Wings defenseman .Jiri Fischer had a seizure on the Detroit bench late in the first period of Monday night's game against the Nashville Predators and was listed in stable condi­tion at a hospital. 
Fischer was given CPH at the bench by team physi­cian Dr. Tony Colucci before the 25-year-old native of the Czech Republic was removed on a stretcher. The game was called off with no makeup date announced immedi­ately. 
"His heart was stopped," Hed Wings coach Mike Babcock said. "They hooked up the auto defib-rillator and shocked him." 

Team spokesman John Hahn said Fischer was taken to Detroit Receiving Hospital and was stable, breathing on his own and responsive. 
"It's our understanding, the reports from the hospi­tal, that he is fine and he will be fine," Babcock said. 
Play was stopped with 
7:30 left in the period after the Hed Wings alerted ofli­cials to a problem. Medical personnel worked on the 25-year-old Fischer at the door to the bench for sev­eral minutes before he was wheeled back toward the Red Wings dressing room. 
"First of all, everybody is definitely caught by sur­prise," Hed Wings captain Steve Yzerman said. "We 
IN BRIEF 

Cablevision rejects offer 
from investors to buy
Knicks and Ranaers 
NEW YOHK -CabTevision Systems Corp. rejected a $700 million offer from an investment group last month to buy the New York Knicks and the New York Hangers professional sports teams, a Cablevision spokesman said Monday. 
Cablevision, the country's sixth­largest eable operator, confirmed the details of the om~r made in a letter dated Oct. 18 by a group led by lin­ancier Hussell D. Glass, a former executive at Ieahn Associates, billion­aire Carl Icahn's investment firm. News of the group's otTer was report­ed onlino Monday night by The Wall Street Journal. 
The investment group also offered to discuss an additional bid to buy the teams' venue of Madison Square Garden from Cablevision but did not specify a price, according to Bethpage, N.Y.-based Cablevision. lcahn was not involved in the bid. 
turn and see .Jiri laying between the boards and the bench and we're not sure why. 
"You fear for the guy's life at that moment. I can't remember anything like that." 
The decision was made to resurface the ice then, and the remaining time was to be added to the sec­ond period. But the game was postponed instead. 
"It was obvious to every­body involved that it was the right decision," Predators coach Barry Trotz said. "It was very disturbing to both sides and I think the NIII. recog­nized it, the players recog­nized it. To be quite hon­est, the game became very secondary. When a friend 
page 13 

or a teammate was in dan­ger like .liri was in, then the dedsion was made for everybody to reschedule it." 
It was not immediately elear whnther the game would be played in its entirety or resume from the point of the stoppage. 
"Our primary objeetivn is that .liri is taken care of," Trotz said. 
Hnd Wings forward Brendan Shanahan hnlpnd eseort Fiseher's fiancnn, Avery, across the ice to the beneh area. 
"Obviously, she was very worried and concernnd. She just wanted to be next to .Jiri," Shanahan said. 
Fischer was diagnosed with a heart abnormality in Snpt1~mber 2002. 
Duke women keep top syot 
over Tennessee in AP pol 
Two convincing victories made tho Duke women an even stronger choice at No. 1. 
Duke increased its lead over Tennessee in The Associated Press women's basketball poll Monday, and New Mexico appeared in the Top 25 for just the third time after handing Texas a rare loss at home. 
New Mexico (3-1) moved in at No. 
25. North Carolina State, whieh had been 23rd, dropped out. 
Duke opened the season with a 93­(J 7 victory at Penn State, then routed Old Dominion 93-56, also on the road. Coach Gail Goestenkors' team shot a combined 55 against the two tradition-rich teams and held them to 
32.5 percent shooting. 
The Blue Devils received 23 of 45 first-place votes from a national media panel and had 1,101 points. Tennessee, which beat Stetson 83-33 in its only game, had 18 first-place votes and 1 ,082 points. 

In the prnseason poll. Tnnnnssnn had a 23-17 edge in lirst plaen votes and trailed Duke by only live points. Tennessee remains perfect
with rout of Chattanooga 
KNOXVILLI\, Tenn. -Chattanooga coach Wes Moon~ got a sneak pnnk at the Tennessee Lady Vols this sum­mer. Nothing surprised him on Monday. 
Shanna Zolman seornd 20 points and Candace Parker added 14 points and nine rebounds in second-ranked Tennessee's 92-50 vietory over Chattanooga. 
"It's one of Pat's bnst teams ever," Moore said. "You take a Final Four team and add Candace Parker." 
The win was Tennessee's 14th straight over tho Lady Mocs ( 1-2). 
The Lady Vols, who beat Stetson 83-33 in their opnn1~r Sunday night, were playing in baek-to-back games to prepare for the three-day Paradise Jam in St. Thomas later this week. 
page tuesday, November 22, 200)
The Observer + SPURI S 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Nittany Lions jump to third in latest BCS standings 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Joe Paterno and Penn State are in the club­house, hoping for Southern California or Texas to fumble away their chances to play for the national championship. 
The Nittany Lions moved up 


YOU MU~T BE ~1 YEAR~ OF AGE WITH A 
VALIDID TO CON~UME ALCOHOL AT THE~E E~TABLI~IIMENT~ I PLEA~E DRINK RE~PON~IBLY~ DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE I 

Monday: Karaoke Night, $2.50 House Special 
Tuesday: $1 .50 Domestic Bottles $2.00 Wells 
Wednesday: Trivia Night, $3.00 Pitchers 
Thursday: $2.00 Imports 

Sunday: $10.00 Domestic Buckets 
Kitchen Open Every Day Daily Grill Specials: M-Th 4pm-3am Fri 11 am-3am Sat 4pm-3am Sun 11 am-12midnight 
574.234.4015 


#}' EST. 1990 ~ e.-..: u.e ~ il2'«4 a.d4 6d--d 
TuESDAYS AND THURSDAYS: 
$3.00 PITCHERS $1.00 DOMESTIC DRAFTS 
NO COVER! 
$I .00 CANS EVERY DAY OF SELECT DOMESTICS 

one spot into third place in the with a 31-22 victory over Bowl Championship Series Michigan State. The Nittany standings on Monday behind Lions finished the regular sea­the unbeaten Trojans and son 10-1. Longhorns. The top two teams in the 
Penn State became the first final BCS standings, which team to lock up a spot in the come out Dec. 4, will play in BCS by winning the Big Ten's the Rose Bowl on Jan. 4 for the automatic bid on Saturday national championship. 

of the 
MAl)IS()N 0YST'ER BAR 
Open Sundays from 6-12 

"Time Out" 
SPORTS BAR 
3:00pm til close* 7 days a week 

ROCK N ROLL AT ITS FINEST! 7:00pm til 2:00am Fri. & Sat. 52565 State Road 933 North South Bend, IN 46637 
Located in North Village Mall (behind Ponderosa) 
Daily Drink Specials -Sandwiches -Darts -Pool Live Music Every Weekend Watch the Irish on the 106" Projection TV Must be 21 years old with valid ID to enter 


$1.25 dogs $1.25 drafts ALL DAY EVERY DAY 
10% Discount w/ Student ID 
1733 South Bend Ave. 574.277.2527 
With two weeks and numer­ous big games still to be played, the Nittany Lions can only watch, wait and root for an upset that might get them a trip to Pasadena, Calif. 
The Trojans are first in the BCS standings, as they have been for four out of the previ­ous Live weeks, but their lead on Texas is tiny. USC has a BCS average of .9807 and Texas is at .9791, not that it matters. 


The important thing for USC and Texas is they're way ahead of Penn State and only need to remain undefeated to reach the Rose Bowl. 
c 
L 
u 
B 


.Shldelll Niglll Tllunlilla? 
Doors open @ 1 0 

$2 Cover Charge with Student ID or $5 without 
$1.50 Domestic Drafts 
$1.50 Well Drinks 

$1.50 Domestic Bottles Food Served All Night -Music by DJ-CK1 
222 SOUTH MICHIGAN ST, SOUTH BEND 
,..,..,...clubfe"er.biz 
Watch all Notre Dame Games­Most and Largest Screens in Town 
MONDAY 


Never a cover with Student ID GO IRISH 

2046 South Bend Ave Across from Martins Plaza 272-1766 
All food 1/2 price, $10.00 buckets, Monday Night Football on HDTV 
TUESDAY ND penny night, $1 off cover with student ID, DJ all night, 1 ¢ wells and drafts 
WEDNESDAY Live trivia night with cash prizes and free drinks, 1 to 8 people per team, 8:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Defending champs: ND law Legal Eagles. 69¢ bitty burger, 49¢ wings, $10.00 buckets 

THURSDAY Every Thursday Private Party for ND, HC and SMC students 2nd Penny night. 1 ¢ wells and drafts, DJ plays hits all night long 
FRIDAY DJ till 3:00a.m., pre-game warm up 
SATURDAY Game day-Go IRISH. DJ after games, celebrate victory and boogie till dawn. ESPN game plan 

SUNDAY $1.50 burgers, dogs, fries and bottles. NFL Sunday tickets-14 screens. 





., 

Tuesday, November 22, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Brewster keeps her cool under the spotlight 
Senior middle blocker led Notre Dame to Big East title over Louisville in distracting Kentucky atmosphere 


HY PHAM/The Observer 

At left, lauren Brewster (12) and lauren Kelbley elevate to block a hit by louisville's Anastasia Yartsteva during Notre Dame's victory over the Cardinals In the Big East Championship Sunday. At right, Brewster directs the Irish attack as Adrlanna Stasluk, back, prepares to serve the ball. 
By TOM DORWART 
Sports Wri!l'r 
In tlw middle of all thn wnnk­nnd rommotion of tlw Big East tournanwnt, sPnior Irish mid­din bloc~k(~r l.aurnn Bn~wster stayPd focusml. 
.Jim Carey, Brad Pitt, ;\ngnlina .Jolin. Hobin Williams, Billy Crystal. llootin and the Blowfish and a host of otlwr r «' IP h r i t i n s s w a nqw d the l.ouisviiiP Downtown Marriott, also tlw hotnl at which all the Big l~ast teams stayed, just hl!u~ks away from the Kentucky lntPrnational Convention CPntnr, tlw site of the Big East voiiPyhall tournanwnt. ;\n up­and-coming H&B/hip-hop group, 1\dipsn, jarnmnd in the hotcd lobby. s(~eurity guards manrwd nvnry eorrwr or the hotel. 
Saturday night was thn open­ing of the Muhammad Ali Center in Louisville -a muse­urn tributn to the native !\li and tlw n•ason for all thn hub­huh. 
But on Friday night, just aftnr ddnating Villanova in the quarterfinals. Brewstnr sat in the hotnl lobby writing a histo­ry paper. She'd just helped lead lwr tnam to a round-one comnback victory and had a smniflnal rnateh the next day. But whnn she wasn't doing vol­leyball activities -film, scout­ing or playing -slw was writ­ing her paper or hanging out with the t(~am. 
Throughout the wnekend, in hntwnen volleyball matches, snveral otlwr players talked about the homework on which tlwy were working. 
Some typed papers. Othnrs cut out papnr chromosomes for genetics projects. 
With players like Brewster and fellow seniors Meg llenican, Lauren Kelbley, Carolyn Cooper and Kelly Burrell loading the way, it's easy, they say, to focus -nvcn with stretch limousines and paparazzi lined up outside of tlwir hotel. The Irish say thnir groat concentration is dun to tlwir outstanding team chem­istry. 
"We just pulled together real­ly wnll." llnnican said, rnfer­ring to wlwn her team camo back from multiple deficits against Louisvilln to win tho Big East Championship. 
"Wo definitely look to each otlwr a lot. Our tnam chemistry is great. They Ithe CardinalsI kept the pressure on us, and we didn't break. We wero stronger." 
One other reason that con­tributed to their unbreakabln eoru:entration was something unexpected. 
Besides the usual family and friends who atlend most of their matchns, the Irish had some fellow students, three freshmen from Morrissey, who made the trek to Louisville ­even on a home football week­
end -just to cheer on  their  
elassmates.  
"It  was  awesome  to  have  

those guys thero," Kelbley said. "I can't believe that they came ... and their story of how they got hflre, it was just so cool." 
The trio took a train from South Bend to Chicago Friday evening and then took another train from Chicago to Cincinnati through the night. Thny bussnd the rest of' the way and arrived around 6 a.m. Saturday. 
Irish head coach Debbie 

Brown was equally impressod -and thankful. 
"I think it was great," she said. "For them to take 14 hours just to get down here and cheer us on, obviously we have a lot friends and family or the team here, but just to have some fellow students here to cheer us on and say, 'We don't care about the football team or anything else, we're going to go down there and cheer them on.' That was awesome." 
Kelbley enjoyed having the students around, even after the 
matches. Morrissey, as a dorm, sponsors 
"Having them around the the volleyball toarn -and hotel the whole time ... every espeeially thnir work in g1~tting time we came downstairs, the parents and family friends there they were," she said. "It riled up. 
felt like a constant cheering . "TI~.ey're al_war.~. such good section with us. It was great to fans, she saHI. I hey always look out there [at the matches] bring big crowds to all of our and know that we had people games, and it meant a lot to us who were willing to go that far to have them here. And they and make that kind or effort to did a rnally good job of getting cheer us on. It was great." our little cheering section 
Henican appreciated their started and going." efforts throughout the entire season -they attended nearly Contact Tom Dorwart at every home match because tdorwart@nd.edu 
' 
11·fr<1sh ' \ " ..... ,~./ 


TIM SULLIVAN AND MATTHEW SMEDBERG/The Observer 
Left, Irish running back Darius Walker cuts past wide reciever Jeff Samardzija's block in Notre Dame's 34-10 win over Syracuse Saturday. Right, Irish wide reciever Maurice Stovall evades an Orange defender. Notre Dame officially released its football schedules for 2006 and 2007 Monday. 
to play a 12th game, result­4 article. "If it's in the middle three service academies next The bye week in 2007 ing in Notre Dame playing of the year. you've got to use year in a four-week span. comes eight games into the
Schedule 
seven home games next sea­it to rest your guys. You just Navy is Oct. 28, with a break season, as it is the week after continued from page 20 son. The bye week comes six have to make sure whenever for North Carolina, and then the USC game and before the 
games into the 2006 season, those bye weeks occur, you Notre Damn faces Air Force Navy game. Georgia Tech, Michigan State, after the Irish will have faced use them to the greatest ben­and Army in consecutive Once again, the Irish will Air Force and USC. The Irish Stanford at Notre Dame efit." weeks. open with Georgia Tech, but also play Navy at Baltimore, Stadium. And Notre Dame continues In 2007, Notre Dame is set this time at Notre Dame Md .. Notre Dame played the But Irish head coach to play a difficult schedule. to play the same teams but Stadium. Midshipmen at a neutral site Charlie Weis said earlier this Of the 12 Irish opponents will substitute a home game The 2007 season concludes in 2004 as well, winning 27-9 season that he was not con­next season, five are ranked with Boston College for a with a trip to Stanford, and at the Meadowlands. cerned about having just one this season, including No. 1 game with North Carolina the Irish play No. 1 USC on 
Next year's schedule only bye week in the future. USC and No. 4 Penn State. and a home match up with Oct. 20 at Notre Dame includes one bye week, "If [the bye week] is early The Irish open 2006 with Duke for Army. The games Stadium. before the UCLA game. This in the year, you have to use it No. 20 Georgia Tech and con­against the other opponents happens because of the new to push your system," Weis clude on the road against No. will be played in the opposite Contact Heather Van Hoegarden NCAA rule that allows teams told The Observer for a Nov. 1 USC. Notre Dame faces all team's stadium in 2007. at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
NCAAs 
continued from page 20 
Madia said. 
The meet was the last of their collegiate careers for four sen­iors on each team. 
"It hasn't sunk in yet. I've been focusing on the race during the day," Madia said of her emotions at the end of her career. "That said, [the emotion] plays a part when you're running. You want to leave it all out there. 
"I can't believe how quickly the time's gone. It's been a blessing to be at Notre Dame." 
Madia said she is leaving the program in good hands. 
"I feel very confident leaving the team in the hands of the underclassmen, knowing that they're going to get a lot better," she said. "There's a lot of poten­tial with the underclassmen." 
Men's head coach Joe Piane said his team, which finished above their national ranking coming into the meet, followed his race plan perfectly. 
"It was a wonderful day. The men competed exceptionally well," Piane said. "They did exactly what we wanted them to do, which is go out conservative­ly and then make a charge late. We said the first half of the race was for jockeying for position, and then the race really began." 


The third-place finish was the best for the Irish men since 1989. 
Piane said the team used its disappointing 11th-place finish in 2004 as motivation for this year. 
"This was our highest finish in years," he said. "The guys have been working pretty hard. They made a commitment after this meet last year to get back here and do well." 
Benninger and seniors Tim Moore and Kaleb Van Ort earned All-American honors. Moore fin­ished No. 31 with a time of 30:15 and Van Ort fmished No. 41 with a time of 30:22. 
Fifth-year senior Sean O'Donnell was the fourth runner for the Irish men, placing No. 57, only 13 seconds behind Van Ort. 
Freshman Patrick Smyth was the fifth runner for the Irish, fm­ishing strong with a time of 30:58. 
"Smyth did a terrific job, espe­cially for a freshmen," Piane said. "He must have passed 20 people in the last two [kilome­ters]." 
Junior Todd Ptacek and senior Vinny Ambrico rounded out Notre Dame's seven competitors. 
For the Irish women, the sev­enth-place fmish came as a slight disappointment after the team came into the meet ranked fourth in the nation. 
"If everyone had their best day, I'm sure we would have placed higher, but it's just hard to have everyone run their absolute best all at the same time," Madia said. 
Madia's fellow All-Americans, senior Molly Huddle and fresh­man Sunni Olding, earned the distinction for the second straight year. Huddle finished No. 15 overall in 20:13, and Olding took No. 24 with a time of 20:30. 

Freshman Ramsey Kavan was fourth for the Irish and No. 59 overall at 20:57. 
Senior Elizabeth Webster took the fifth spot for the Irish, run­ning a personal best 21:58 and finishing No. 191. Senior Jean Marinangeli and junior Katie DeRusso were right on Webster's tail, finishing Nos. 202 and 206, respectively. 
Several Irish runners from both teams who did not compete made the trip down to cheer on their teammates. 
"I totally appreciate my team­mates coming down because it's a Monday and they missed class 
• 'I 

and made sure they got their work done so they could come down and cheer us on," Madia said. "We heard 'Let's go Irish' chants the entire race." 
Wisconsin won the men's meet, scoring an exceptionally low 37 points and beating second-place Arkansas by 68. Notre Dame was 73 points behind Arkansas at 178. 
On the women's side, Stanford took the meet title with 146 points, besting second place Colorado by 35. The Irish fin­ished with a team total of 252. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
I f '• 
. ' I 

TucsJay, November 22, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Manning 
continued from page 20 
Now a snnior, Manning said it was thn support of' hnr mach and LPammatns that convinn~d hnr to stay on tlw LPam. 
"Coach was so supportivn, and lw gavn IIW so many chances and rwvPr n~ally gavn up on mn," Manning said. "But pn~tty much it was thn tnam. tlw n~ason I stayPd. Tlw girls nwan so mud1 to IIIP. I can't imaginn being at Notn~ I>anw and not a part of' tlw tPam." 
l.ikP lwr statistics, Manning's Pmotions could not lw f'urtlwr l'rom wh(H'P tlwy wnrn a littln morn than a year ago. 
Shn is nxdtnd f'or Notro Dame's impnnding dash with Portland, 
nspncially because she will be roturn­ing home f'or a soccnr match f'or tho first Limo in her collegiatn carnnr. 
Bnf'orn 

Notrn Damn's Manning vietory ovnr Yale Friday, Manning said she was hoping I'm a showdown in 
hnr homn statn. 
'Tvn nnvor play(~d in Ore1gon," shn said. "''vn boon wanting to thn past li•ur ynars. It would just be great if we could do this in my last few games, and it would bn Thanksgiving weekend, so [I could be home]." 


The winner of' Friday's game advanees to thn College Cup in College Station, Texas at the cam­pus of' Texas A&M and likely becomos the odds-on favorite to take homo the 2005 national championship. 
Waldrum said Notre Dame's succnss this year has been in largo part thanks to the team's dopth, and Manning is an integral part of the Irish attack. 
"She's done a groat job f'or us ofT the bench," Waldrum said. "You don't skip a bnat lwlwn she mmos in!. To get into the NCAA'> and win, you ncod playnrs like IManning! that arn going to help you through it." 
For Manning, that is tho ulti­matn complimnnt. She said her goal in games is to maintain tho high levd of' play of' the starting Irish fiwwards. 
"I just don't want the game to let down when I get onto the field, and I just make it my personal goal to keep up that levd of play Iof the starters]," Manning said. 
She attributes her solid play all year to rndedieation and li>cus on the field and in practice. Manning has seornd all nine of' her goals orr the bench -one of the highest totals in Division I for a sceond­line player. She has netted her 25 points in just 690 minutes of play­ing time this season, averaging 31 minutns of' aetion a game. 
"I know my playing Limn is lim­ited, and I just want to make an impaet at any level," Manning said. "Whether it's winning a ran­dom ball or seoring a goal, what­ever I ean do." 
For all her hard work, Manning has developed a devoted cheering section in the stands at Alumni Field. When the forward enters the game, her devotees make surn the rest of' the crowd knows that No. 1:~ is in the game. 

"Those are my very loyal friends," she said. "They just love to support me. They're my No. 1 fans and keep me going." 
ller fans' enthusiasm cormlates with her own, increasing dramat­ically this season from last. Even though the Irish captured the College Cup title last season in Cary, N.C., Manning wasn't happy. In 2005, the story is diflilf'­ent. 

"Compared to last year, this is so rnud1 dillimmt." Manning said. "I'm having so much mor(~ fun." 
A<> a senior, soon to play in her final ganw, Manning said shn thinks her difl1cult season last year provides a deep pnrspectiw from which to look at hm· earm~r. 
"I think because I've had the highest of the highs and the low­nst of' the lows, I ean rnally appn~­datn everything," shn said. 
Notre Dame takns on the Pilots Friday at 7 p.m. PST at Merlo Field in Portland, Orn. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler I @nd.edu 
Indiana 
continued from page 20 
Thn Irish know thny have a tough task in dethroning thn lloosinrs. 
"It.'s a tall ordnr," Notre Dame lwad coach Bobby Clark said. "But it's dnfinitPly possibln." 
Notrn Damn is coming ofT of' a 2-0, first-round victory ovnr Wnstnrn Illinois Friday at Alumni Field. Indiana. who rncnived a bye in thn first round. has not playnd since losing 1-0 to l'mm Statn in thn Big T(HJ Championship on Nov. 
I]. 
Tlw teams mnt oncn this ynar during tlw n~gular season. as Indiana defeated the Irish 3-0 at Alumni Field on Oct. 26. 
"Thorn's not a lot of' secrets," Clark said. "The one thing we do know is thny're a very good team. Thny'ro tho best team we playnd all year." 
Clark said his team must not entnr the game worrying about the regular season loss or Indiana's past tournament suc­eossos. 
"If we're going to bn intimi­datml, we aren't going to win," Clark said. "Wn can't bo intimi­dated by them, [and! I don't think wn will be. l think our guys are looking forward to this gamn." 
Clark said he is excited about tho game bncause of the chal­lenge it presents to his team. 

"It's a great opportunity for our program to really catapult itself into the realms of' being a possible NCAA winner. At this time, most people have pegged Indiana as one of the likely hmms to win it. We've got to go down there, and we've got to get a result and obviously take over their mantle." 
The head coaeh believes the Irish have the talent to pull ofT the upset. 
"If we play wHII and we per­form well, we'll have a very good ehance of coming out with something," Clark said. "It C(~uld, be a great night for the Insh. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles prepare for Manchester and Carthage after split 
First-year coach Steve Bender says Saint Mary's is ready for its first home game ofseason Saturday against Lady Reds 
BY TIM KAISER  Saturday's win. We learned that we have got to lnt the game eome  Manchester on tho road tonight, and then Carthage on Saturday  know what you'll get. We're working on getting back on  Af't.er the BPIIns play Manehostnr, tlwy haw tlwir first  
Sports Writer  to us. not try to ernate the game,  at 2 p.m. in their first homn  dcl'ensn and rebounding."  homo ganw of thn season to look  
and wn learnod the importance  matehup of' the season. The tnam  When  asked  what  other  fill'ward to.  
Saint Mary's comes into this  of' tnamwork."  is focusing all its  improvements his tnam needs to  BnndPr said his girls arn «'agnr  
wn«'k at 1-1 al't«'r splitting its first  This  wnek­ "We learned that we  energy in prac­ make, Bender sound(~d optimistic  f'or  thnir  honw  Olwrwr  and  
two ganws at tho llanovnr Tip­orr Classic last wnnknnd. The B(dlns f'nll Friday night against llanover but worn abln to ovnr­ ond's disappoint­mont and redemption will help them set  have got to let the game come to us ... and we learned the importance  tice this wnek on beating Manchester, another 1-1  about his team's prospeets for this week's games and for the rest of' the stmson. "The biggflSL limprovnnwntl is  aeknowledgns that playing it.s first ganw on tlw road was tough for tho team. "On Friday, fivn hours on a bus  
corrw the setback and Franklin on Saturday.  upsnt  tho tonn for tho rnst of this wonk,  of teamwork. "  team that has out-rebounded  gotting used to nach otlwr," he said.  was diflieult, but it f'orcnd us to grow up and dmll with thn road,"  
Saint Mary's head coach Stnvn BnrHinr f'nlt his team made a  in whieh they have two games.  Steve Bender  both of its oppo­nents, an area  "We have a new eoaeh and II now players, and we've got to  hn said. "Tiw girls lnarrwd so much, and they playml well on  
grnat deal of' improvmnont this  "It was a grnat  Belles coach  the Belles have  move forward in the right direc­ Saturday."  
wm~knnd and gained grnat oxpn­ mental boost,"  not been strong  tion. We're good at just about  Al'tnr tonight's gamn, the B(lllns  
rinnm in its first toumamnnt that  Bnndnr said, "It gave us a  lot of'  in this season.  everything, but we have to keep  will  have  time  ofT  for  
should help throughout the sea­ eonlidenee. Wn know that if we  "They arc  1-1, very athlotie,  gntting better. We've also got  Thanksgiving and will not prac­ 
son.  play hard,  we  can  play with  and they have a lot of' new play­ great chemistry. !Coming in as  tice again until Saturday night.  
"I thought wn grew up a  lot."  cveryonn. Wo havn a new mind­ ers," Bonder said of' Manehnster.  the new coach,] l didn't know  
he said. "Wn learned a  lot from  set, that's the grnatest thing."  "They are a groat, great throat,  what to expeet, but it's a  very  Contact Tim Kaiser at  
Friday's loss, and it paid .oiT in  The  Belles  will  play  but they're so young, you  never  tight-knit group."  tkaiser@nd.edu  

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, November 22, 2005 
And Hofstra lost at Syracuse scored a team-high 17 points by only five points. Notre against Florida International
Hofstra 
Dame lost two games to the Saturday. The Pride went to Orange -a nine-point loss on the foul line 48 times in the
continued from page 20 
Jan. 10 and a three-point game. since Jan. 15, 1995, a 63-52 defeat on Feb. 5. "You can tell where their Notre Dame victory, when "We've got a very tough frame of mind's at," Brey said. Hofstra belonged to the opponent in Hofstra coming "And if we're fortunate America East Conference. in, a team that many might enough to get it, it will go in 
Since, fifth-year coach Tom not think is that good," Irish the good win category. Not Pecora has coached the Pride point guard Chris Quinn said. everybody understands that through as "But they are right now, and our fans many seasons very good and wouldn't understand that, in the CAA, "We've got a very tough very talent­that would be like a league 
amassing a opponent in Hofstra ed." win. 
21-9 overall Notre Dame
coming in, a team that

record last is coming off Notes season before many might not think is a win in its +Notre Dame sophomore losing in the that good." first game, as forward Rob Kurz was select­first round of well, in which ed to the Big East Weekly the National the team shot Honor Roll following a career­
Chris Quinn 

Invitation 48.2 percent high, 18-point performance in Tournament Irish point guard from the field, Notre Dame's regular season (NIT). 42.9 percent opener. It was also Kurz's first 
Pecora was from the 3-start of his college career. an assistant coach for seven point line and 72.4 percent +Georgetown's Roy Ilibbert years under current Villanova (21-for-29) from the foul line. earned the conference's play­and former Hofstra head But the Irish also scored only er-of-the-week award. coach Jay Wright before tak­one field goal in the game's Connecticut's Josh Boone, ing the reigns. final nine minutes. Cincinnati's Eric Hicks, 
"Tom did a very good job As of Sunday, all Irish play-Hutgers' Quincy Douby and there and has taken the pro­ers including s 0 u t h gram from Jay," said Brey, Rick Cornett Florida's
"We've got to be ready 
whose former Delaware squad (ankle) and Kyle Solomon is also in the CAA. "They McAlarney (back to go against a very Jones were weren't quite running at a spasms) were named to the
good team, a confident
high level for a couple years, able to play. Weekly Honor
team."
but he's kind of restocked. Neither Cornett Hall along And of course, they are in a nor McAlarney with Kurz. different conference now." were 100 percent Mike Brey +Hofstra 
Hofstra has had some recent against senior guard
Irish head coach 
success against Big East Lafayette. Gibran teams and common opponents "We've got to Washington of Notre Dame. The Pride be ready to go against a very has left its basketball pro­"jumped all over" St. John's good team, a confident team," gram due to a "chronic including 28 starts. He scored 12-assist performance against 78-68 last season, as Brey Brey said. injury," the team announced 333 points, 165 assists and St. John's in 2003-04. described. The Irish needed a Hofstra sophomore Antoine Tuesday. 107 steals in three seasons. last-second Chris Thomas 3-Agudio is the former confer­Washington played in 83 And he holds the single-game Contact Pat Leonard at pointer to beat the Red Storm. ence rookie of the year and career games for the Pride, assist record at Hofstra for a pleonard@nd.edu 

NFL 
Vikings keep playoff hopes alive with win 
Edinger kicks field goal as time expires to give Minnesota 20-17 over Green Bay on Monday Night Football 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. Minnesota's offense isn't dead. With the steady hand of Brad Johnson, neither is the Vikings' season. 
For the second time this year, Paul Edinger kicked a winning field goal against Green Bay as time expired, this time a 27-yarder to give the Vikings a 20-17 victory Monday night and keep their playoff hopes alive. 
After struggling mightily on offense since quarterback Daunte Culpepper was lost for the season with a knee injury, the Vikings put together a solid showing behind Johnson's 196 yards passing and running back Mewelde Moore, who had 122 yards on 22 carries. 
The 37 -year-old Johnson set up Edinger's kick with a nine­play, 58-yard drive in the final 3 minutes and three seconds after Green Bay tied it at 17. 
Minnesota coach Mike Tice shuffled his offensive line this week hoping to inject some life into the offense that totaled 137 yards last week against the Giants. He started 380­plus-pound Toniu Fonoti at left guard and Cory Withrow at center. It worked, for the most part. 
"We had two fresh offensive linemen in there and we just decided to come out and make plays and sustain," Moore said, "and hats off to the offensive line." 
Johnson was sacked five times, fumbling twice, and 
Minnesota couldn't muster much offense in the first half. But just like last week -when the Vikings returned a punt, kickoff and interception for touchdowns -they found other ways to score. 
With Green Bay driving, Dovonte Edwards intercepted Brett Favre's pass and returned it 51 yards for a touchdown with a little more than a minute left in the first half. 
"It was exciting," Edwards said. "I had a dream actually last night that I would do something big today and it came true. Mike Tice said you need to dream, dream about making plays and that's what I did last night and it happened for me tonight." 
The play was reviewed after Edwards and intended receiver Andrae Thurman crashed to the ground at the same time. But officials ruled Edwards was not down by contact before he got up and scored. 
Favre atoned for the mistake seconds later, hitting Donald Driver for a 53-yard touch­down pass after the receiver beat defensive back Antoine Winfield and outran former Packers safety Darren Sharper. Green Bay led 14-7 at the half. 
The Packers couldn't capital­ize on Johnson's fumble early in the third quarter and were forced to punt, pinning the Vikings at their own 12. Minnesota then put together its best drive of the game, aided by two defensive penalties inside the Green Bay 10-yard line. 

The second, a pass interfer­ence call in the end zone, put the ball at the 1-yard line. Ciatrick Fason plunged into the end zone on his second attempt -Minnesota's first offensive touchdown in nine quarters. 
"You can't get frustrated," said Johnson, who was 18-of­
30. "Tonight we made the drives when we had to, espe­cially in the second half.... You just have to be patient and do what you've done in practice." 
Favre finished the game 20­for-33 for 227 yards and two touchdowns. 
The win keeps the Vikings (5­
5) afloat in its hunt for the postseason, two games behind NFC North leader Chicago (7­3). Meanwhile, the loss puts the Packers (2-8) on the verge of ending an impressive streak -they haven't had a losing season since Favre took over as the starter in 1992, a run of 13 years that's best in the league. They have to win out to avoid snapping that run, an unlikely task with Chicago (twice) and Seattle (8-2) left on the schedule. 
Favre has worked without a running game much of the sea­son, and Monday night was no different. 
Samkon Gado was last week's feel good story of the NFL after the Nigerian immi­grant rushed for 103 yards and scored three touchdowns in the Packers' win over Atlanta. But the rookie looked like a one-game wonder Monday. 


--------------~ 

Tueaday, November 22, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
HENRI ARNOLDALEKWHITE & ERIC POWERS JUMBLE
JOCKULAR 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LOFOD 
J 
(J [ I I 
102005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
RUZEA 
I I I 


ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 
FLIPER 
J 

THE: C.HIE:F HIRE:D 
HIS NE:PHE:WI WHO www.jumble.com AUTOMATIC.Al-l-Y BE:c.AME:--­
(J [ (] 
UNCOOP J 

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Jumbles: FORUM GLAND AUTUMN POLISHYesterday's 
Answer: What the barbershop quartet used to perfect their harmony-A "SOUND" PLAN 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 35 This puzzle's 64 Chicken cordon 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY:Goldic I lawn, 60; Ken Grillt:y Jr., 36; theme, 
Troy Aikman, 39; Cherry Jones, 49

1 ___ Brockovich, succinctly
Julia Roberts 65 Cosmetician 
Happy Birthday: As much as you try to fit in to a certain fiJrmat, you will find title role 39 Gen­Lauder it diflicult to abide by any set rules. So why light it? Get moving in whatever (boomer's kid) direction you see fit and take things as they come. You will learn positive lessons 
5 Max. misses 66 Teamster's rig 
through the experiences you have. Your numbers arc 5, 6, 29, 31, 33, 47 
10 Tom, Dick or 40 Shakespeare's Harry stream ARIES (March 21-Aprill9l:Somewhcre in the hack ofyour mind, a lillie voice 
DOWN 

is telling you to step into the limelight. It's time to show what you arc made ot: 
14 1998 N.L. 42 Hood's gun 
1 A.B.A. to challenge whoever gets in your way and to take what's rightfully yours. You
M.V.P. from 
43 Rhone tributary members' titles will make progress today.*"'*** 
Chicago 
TAURUS (April 211-May 20):You may he in the mood for an adventure, hut 
45 See 35-Across 2 Lecherous sort

15 Sports hiree before you start out, consider the consequences. You arc a tad accident-prone 16 Sen. Bayh of 49 Cold war inits. 
3 "Beauty _ the and may want to give a little more thought to your capabilities. Better to put your eye ... " heart into love and romance. * • 
Indiana 
50" No GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20J:Talks will lead to solutions. You can iron out any
4 Famous name

17 See 35-Across Mountain High business or personal problems. Invest in something you believe in and you'll he Enough"(1970 able to build a secure future. Ask questions so you don't risk the chance of loss.
in hot dogs 

20 Ladies of Lisbon #1 hit) 5 Japanese 
4 stars 21 Crowbar, e.g. CANCER (.June 21-July 22):Your mind may he on love and romance, hut you 
beetle, e.g. 

22 "I've Got in 51 Underground had better start thinking about money and making more or it. An interesting Railroad user 6lsle proposal will lead to a contract you won't want to turn down. Get everything 
KalamazOO" 
National Park signed, sealed and delivered. •••
54 Least drunk 

23 Soccer LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22):You'll he a big spender today. Don't be sucked into
7 Small amounts 

thinking that everyone is going to buy you a gill or do something special for you 
25 See 35-Across 58 See 35-Across 
a goo from down: just because you are being overly generous. Put things in perspective. *** 
30 Geniuses' group 61 Follower of inter 
Abbr. VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22):You can accomplish a lot if you do things from 31 12/24 or 12/31 or et home. Invite peers or frknds over to hrainstonn and you will come up with some
9 Any ship 

solutions. Question the motives or the people you work with, hut don't start an
32 Golfer 62 "Marat/Sade" 
10 Unbeatable foe argument.***
Ballesteros playwright 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22):Your choices will he noticed and should enable you 
11 Tel_, Israel 

to make some very important changes. You will outsmart someone who is trying
34 Samuel's 63 Statement to a 30"_culpa" 46 Hand-me-down 54 Fit of pique 
teacher judge 12 Luxuriant locks to take advantage of you. Friends and relatives will help you. ••u 33 Bard's before 47 Supposed 55 Creator of Perry SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21):Your emotions may get the better of you today. 
13 M.I.T. grad., 

founder of Stay calm and do what you can, but don't fight change or let your temper take 
36 Souffle needs and Della 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE often Taoism over. The less time spent on things you can't change, the better. •• 18' Bowser's 37 Asian goat 56 Goblet feature SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ):Do something nice for someone and you'll 48 Nucleic acid get a surprise. A new way of doing things will attract your attention. 'fraveling 
identification 38 Holder of 

sugar 57 Bangkok native will be a learning experience but could result in an unexpected problem. •••** 19 Diva Gluck claimed property CAPRit:ORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19):Takc care of legal, financial or health matters. 
51 Strike defier 
59 Have a tab Invest in something you are familiar with. A past partner may he just the right 
23 "Outta my way!" 41 riche 
person to hook up with again. • ••

52 Vegetate
24 Prime S.S.S. 44 Persian 60 Jazz's AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18l:Youmay not he able to trust your own judgment 
classification governors 53 Gallic girlfriend Montgomery today. Ask questions if you arc feeling the least bit confused. Problems with authority ligures will escalate if you don't hack down. Focus on what you can do to help others. •••
"into" 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can expect to receive something very interesting 
26 Bagel choice credit card, 1-800-814-5554. by e-mail, snail mail or the phone. Someone from your past will inlluencc you Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
favorably. A change is apparent and will happen as soon as you initiate it. •••
27 Major mattress 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
maker 

Birthday Baby:You are adaptable, impulsive and extremely active. You like to 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
do things in a big and dramatic way. You arc sensitive and very aware of what's
-::+.::+:::i=i 28 Nettled past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 
going on around you. 7.+:+.:-:+.:-J 29 Each's Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young companion solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. Euge1tia's Web sites: astroadPice.comfor fim, t•ugenia/ast.comfiJrconficlential ctmsultafi(Jfl.\' 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home . 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City ________ State _____ Zip_______ 
,(. . ., ., 
..· ·', '"f ; 1., rt' ~.: ·~ ~: .1J·~ r:.!'lr J· ~.\f"~•t ~ t 1,., 1!.1-t1! (_;~, t} -t_'i· ~ i I;.• )~ t: !! ~ ;·~ 1 ~ • : I ,• ,~ ~ I ~ ".. ~~ j., I' '• J · ,. r •I I I •.lt' I'' ' ' /l .. ~ •\ .. 1 ',','·r
' ' . '' ' .. . ., I ,,
I I
' · vr t r,J'll':::/II~-~ f' ':Jc c~·r f r~· ·,;"' : !"':! ·' 'o!t 1!· : ~ ~"': ~ r~ \j :t • ~ .. .·, -';' -~ ,• •:/ r':' I ~l i r.;·, :.. .. \ l I ' £:i:r'; ·' j' •' ! I 1\:~J ·.,.f :I ' f. I : I, ..I ~ If r, I 1 'Jt I i 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, November 22, 2005 
page 20 
NO CROSS COUNTRY 

Finishing strong 
Both Notre Dame teams place in top ten at NCAA meet 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
In the biggest race of the year, the top runners on both Notre Dame cross country teams came up with some of their best per­formances. 
The No. 5 Irish men finished third, and the No. 4 women fin­ished seventh at the NCAA Championships in Terre Haute, Ind. 
Senior All-American Stephanie Madia finished third in the women's race with a six-kilome­ter time of 19:49, while Kurt Benninger led the men's team with an eighth place finish and 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 

an eight-kilometer time of 29:51. 
"It was just basically that the race played out really well for someone who runs like me," Madia said. "The pack defmitely strung out after we got through 3-K, [and] there were about five or six of us out in front. Individuals were passing each other all the way through the shoot." 
Madia was in fifth place with 400 meters remaining in the race but passed two runners in the race's final stretch to earn a place on the podium. 
"The girl who won the race, [Johanna] Nillson from Northern Arizona, went out strong at the 4-K mark, trying to make her move, but I was able to hang in there, and then I felt good enough to kick it in at the end," 
see NCAAS/page 16 
Rejuvenated Manning sets nevv standards 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Maggie Manning was ready to quit. 
Even as the Irish were en route to their second national champi­onship in 1 0 years, Manning was unhappy, unenthused and under­performing. 
A cycle of limited playing time, low point totals and a lack of enjoyment of the game made Manning contemplate leaving the team. 

"To be honest, I was really unhappy last year," she said. "It carried over into my play very obviously." 
Irish head coach Randy Waldrum saw that and sat down with the forward from Lake Oswego, Ore., to convince her to stay with the team. 
"She's a great example of a student athlete," Waldrum said. "She was very good for us her 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Hofstra will give team 
Big East style contest 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Notre Dame wasn't planning on playing a Big East team until January. 
Though the Irish do not compete in-conference until Jan. 4 against Pittsburgh, Hofstra -from the Colonial Athletic Association (CAA) ­will give them the look and feel of a Big East opponent tonight at 7:30 in the Joyce Cent.er. 
"I told our guys -we didn't talk much about Lafayette ­this is a Big East game," Notre Dame coach Mike Brey said after Sunday's 84-66 win over the Leopards. "Hofstra could be the Bucknell [or] Vermont ... this year. They won 21 games [last season], they've got old guys on the perimeter who are confident, and they called us for the game." 

Hofstra (1-0} beat Florida International 64-51 bn Saturday in its home-and season-opener. The Irish (1-0) and Pride have not played 
see HOFSTRA/page 18 

Notre Dame runners Stephanie Madia, center, and Molly Huddle, right, compete in the Notre Dame Invitational Sept. 30. 
first two years, and we saw a ton of potential in her. And then her junior year, she got to the point last year where the game wasn't really fun for her. She really struggled getting through the season." 
A year after nearly giving up on soccer, Manning is setting a new standard for Irish reserves and preparing to travel home Thanksgiving weekend for a clash with No. 2 Portland in the national quarterfinals. 
In 22 games this season, she has more than doubled her career goal, assist and point totals. She has scored nine goals and added seven assists while starting only two games for the Irish. In 2004, she totaled just two goals and one assist in 13 games. Her career stats heading into the 2005 campaign were seven goals and five assists for 19 points. 
see MANNING/page 17 
MEN's SoccER 
NDtoface Indiana in 2nd round 
Irish will try to end Hoosiers' run at a third straight title 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
Indiana has not lost an NCAA Tournament game since falling 1-0 to UConn in the third round of the 2002 tournament. Notre Dame will try to end that streak today. 
The Irish will travel to Bloomington this afternoon to take on the two-time defending national champions in the sec­ond round of the NCAA Tournament at 7 p.m. 
Indiana (13-2-6) enters the game as the tournament's third seed and one of the most talented teams in the country. The Hoosiers had three players -junior forward Jacob Peterson, senior midfielder Brian Plotkin and junior defender Jed Zayner -named to the list of 15 semifinalists for the Hermann Trophy, an award given each year to the top player in collegiate soccer. 
Petersen and Plotkin are tied for the Big Ten Conference lead for points with 26 apiece. Zayner anchors a Hoosier defense that ranks No. 11 nationally with a 0.62 goals against average. 
see INDIANA/page 17 

FOOTBALL 
Future schedules released 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame finalized its football schedules for the next two years, the University announced Monday in a press release outlining the football schedule for the 2006 and 2007 seasons. 
Next year the Irish will face Penn State, Michigan, Purdue, Stanford, UCLA, North Carolina and Army at home. They play at 
see SCHEDULE/page 16 
NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
2006 
Sept. 2 Sept. 9 Sept. 16 .· Sept. 
Nov.4 Nov. 11 Nov. 18 Nov.25 
Nov. 17 Nov.24 at Stanford 
Graphic by GRAHAM EBETSCH!The Observer :. 


SMC BASKETBAll  NO VOllEYBAll  NHl  NCAA WBASKETBAll  NO WSWIMMING  NCM MBASKETBAll  
1.1.1  
Co) z::5 =  The Belles prepare to face Manchester and Carthage this week after going 1-1 in the  Middle breaker Lauren Brewster stayed focused and led the Irish to a Big East title  Red Wings defense-men Jiri Fischer suffered a seizure in the first period of Detroit's game  Super shooter Shara Zolman led the Lady Vols past Chattanooga Monday with 20 points.  Notre Dame's emotional comeback against Minnesota Sunday gave the Irish  Texas 76 West Virginia 75 The Longhorns won a thriller behind LaMarcus  
cc !;:  Hanover Tipoff Classic. page 17  Sunday in Kentucky. page 15  against Nashville. page 13  page  13  added confidence. page  12  Aldridge's last-second shot. page 12  





