

THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Marys 
Newly-proposed increase attracts support 
Rising student activities fee consistent trend over the past 10 years 
2004 Univ11rsity Faetbook. This The current inflation rate, 
By MADDIE HANNA was a $15 increase from the cited by the U.S. Department 
Associate News Editor previous $65 fee. In 1998, the of Labor as 3.0 percent, has 
fen increased from $55 to $65. increased steadily since the 
While the Studnnt Senate's The Academic Affairs com­1.6 percent rate in 2002. The proposod $15 in<~rease in mittee presented this data rate has been a factor driving Notre Damn's alongside statistics tracking past fee increases, which have student activ-the annual tuition percentage always faced debate. ities I'IH1 to increase and annual inl1ation In 2002, Senate rejected a implement See Also rate at last Wednesday's fee increase that proposed an tlw College "CCC distributes Sunate meeting to explain why initial $10 increase accompa­Hnadorship an increase in the student nied by five subsequent yearly
club funding"

Program pro­adivities fee is necessary. $5 raises. After facing back­vok11d dnbat11 page3 "It is important to note that lash about the need to help last week, 1'1111 inf1ation has picked up in the cash-strapped clubs, Senate increases past four years," the commit­approved the one-time $15 havo been teo's conclusion said. "lnf1ation increase, which went through fairly standard procedure dur­has decreased the buying the Campus Life Council and ing tlw past 10 years. power of student groups and Vice President of Student 
The current $SO fen was set organizations by about $8 Senate members discuss the proposed $15 fee Increase, which during 2002, according to the since 2002." see FEES/page 6 would cover the College Readership program for the University. 
Sotne colleges outpace others in research 
Hdilor:'> Nole: This is the second arlidt• in a lwo part series exam­ining the presence and future qf undergraduate research within d(fferenl colleges al Notre Dame. 
By JOE TROMBELLO News Wrircr 
WhiiP undergraduate research in some of Notr11 Dame's coll11ges is widesprnad or growing, it is still diflkult for undergraduates to be involved in faculty rnsearch in some areas of the University, administrators said. 
Science 
Undergraduate involvement in rnsnan:h is mlativnly eommon in thn Collnge of Science, according to <L<;sodatl1 dnan MitehPII Wayne. WaynP said a numb11r of student-; si1-,>11 up fi1r rPseareh crndit and are involv11d in some capacity in f'aeul­ty laboratories. Wayne also said 

He's 111oney: Vaughn and company fill Stepan 
some studnnl<; are limdnd through l~u~ulty grant-;. 
"We strongly encourage stu­dents, espeeially students who think they are going on to gradu­ate school, to do research," he said. 
Assistant professor of physics Philippe Collon said about 25 per­eent of physics majors are "involved in one form or another in active undergraduate research." 
Wayne said the college is talking about developing a new position to coordinate all of the research opportunities available to under­graduates, perhaps through a database. lie also said the depart­ment does not have "a continuing means of support" to fund stu­dents who attfmd conferences or presnnt their work. 
Wayne said he and other mem­bers of the eollege are very sup­portive of University President Father John .Jenkins' emphasis on 
see RESEARCH/page 4 

ALLISON AMEIRO~lE!Tihe Comedian VInce Vaughn puts actor Kelr O'Donell In a headlock dur­Ing their act In Saturday night's "Wild West" Comedy show. 

Comedy show sells out, entertains students 
By JOE PIARULLI News Writer 
The Stepan Center was wild with laughter Saturday night as aetor Vince Vaughn brought four acelaimed comedians and three special guests to campus for a sold­out two-hour "Wild West" comedy show. 
Vaughn emceed the event, which began with Ahmed Ahmed, a comedian original­ly from Egypt who joked about his difficulties as an Arab American -especially in terms or getting on an air­plane. 
Following Ahmed was the first guest of the night, pro­ducer Peter Billingsley. Billingsley played Halphin Parker in the 1983 film "A Christmas Story" and is onP of Vaughn's bnst friends. The two acted out a scene from an ABC After School Special they acted in together, in which a young Vaughn eon­fronted Billingsley about steroid abuse. 
Sebastian Manisealeo then took the stage and generated big responses with jokes ranging from shopping at a lousy store to having a "text message war." 
Vaughn's second guest was 
see VAUGHN/page 4 

SMC to offer nevv programs 

College introduces two abroad options 
By LISA GALLAGHER 
News Writer 

Saint Mary's students with an iteh to travel have two new opportunities to do so this year -li1r elass c:rndit. 
In addition to the 15 smnestPr, smnnstnr-brnak, ynar and surn­mnr study abroad programs aln~ady being of'f'nrnd at thP College, students can now choose eithm the Comparative Wornnn's Studies in Europe ­provided by Antioch College in Ohio -or Business Internships in thn Europoan Union. 
"Saint Mary's is very gradually and thoughtfully expanding study abroad options to bnst moot the needs and interests of our stuclenL-;," said Elaine Meyer­Len, dirnctor of International and Intercultural Learning at thn Centnr fi1r Women's lntnreultural Leadership (CWIL). 
Astrid Ilenry, coordinator and assistant professor fi1r Womnn's Studies at tlw ColiPgn and tlw dinH~tor of the Wonwn's Studins in Europn option, said studonts who arn nnrollnd in t.lw fall­basnd program will trawl to four or fiv11 diflimmt eountri11s, study­ing with fnminist scholars and activists from nad1. 
The program, which bngan at Antioch Coll11gn in IIJX4, was approved for Saint Mary's in spring 2004 by thn CWII. International Study Committnn and tho Curriculum Committee. It examinns tho trnncls and 
see ABROAD/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, October 10, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Stan caused datnage 

Students at Notre Dame, particularily during midterms, rarely have enough time to watch the news -so it is not sur­prising the student body is not entirely aware of the catastrophic effects of 
Hurricane Stan in  
Central America  Marcella Berrios  
the last few days.  
The footage of  
Guatemala and El  Wlre Editor  
Salvador, replayed  
in the news, is  

reminiscent of Hurricane Katrina­except the victims this time around are farmers and villagers, and the homes destroyed were not located along Bourbon Street, but on the Central American countryside. 
More disastrously, though, these homes were not made of concrete, but rather of mudandday. 
Hurricane Stan, though not as potent as Katrina, ha<> had an equally devastating eflect, as the infrastructure in these coun­tries is not designed to resist a hurricane. 
After a week of incessant rain, the streets of San Salvador are flooded, partly because the city's drainage system dates back to 1920, and ha<> not received signif­icant maintenance since. 
Houses are built irresponsibly, posi­tioned along hills and mountains that may pose the threat of mudslides. In 2001, two earthquakes caused the side of a hill to collapse, burying an entire neigh­borhood. 
The tragic scene repeated itself in 2005, when a mudslide in Guatemala came over the Mayan village of Panabaj like an avalanche. Rescuers are likely to deelare the site a mass grave, as they expect all1,400 of the village's residents to be dead. 
Mayan Indians place great importance on the proper burial rituals of their loved ones, but once again, they are powerless in the face of a natural disaster that has already dainwd their homes and crops. 
In El Salvador, more than 60,000 peo­ple have lost their homes and work. 
Hurricane Katrina is still fresh in the memories of Notre Dame students, and though it may feel as if we just con­tributed to a similar cause, the truth is that the Guatemalan and Salvadoran people need as much help -and as urgently-as the residents of New Orleans did. 
This is not the time to dwindle in our efforts to provide a helping hand to those who need it. 
The earthquake that took the lives of 20,000 Pakistanis over the weekend is yet another painful reminder that our responsibility of solidarity to those less fortunate never ends. 
There will be fundraisers for both the South Asian and Central American vic­tims in the coming days, and ifone were to come across any one of them outside the elevator in LaFortune or at the USC game, one should spare no expense. 
I, too, am a college student-perpetu­ally bankrupt -but I can spare a dollar or two, and though it may not seem much at first, it will eventually add up to a sig­nificant amount ifeverybody else also contributes a dollar or two. 
Open up your wallets, Notre Dame. Because the wrath of Mother Nature did not end in Louisiana, and there are still thousands of people who desperately need help. 
Contact Marcella Berrios at aberrios@nd. edu 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU DO OVER THE FOOTBALL BYE WEEKEND? 







Dan Reynolds  Jeff Schaal  P.J. Duckworth  Michael Quisao  Ryan Wockenfuss  
senior Morrissey  senior, RA Morrissey  senior, RA Morrissey  senior, RA Morrissey  senior, RA Morrissey  
'7just went and hadfun.,  "I was on duty and I busted that guy.,  "I was on duty and I busted that guy.,  "I was on duty. and I busted that guy.''  "I was on duty and I busted that guy.,  


IN BRIEF 
An Oktoberfest Run/Walk will be held at Saint Mary's today to support breast cancer research. Registration begins at 4 p.m. in front of the Angela Athletic Facility. The race begins at 5 p.m. There is a minimum $5 donation to regis­ter for the race and shirts are also available for $10. 
The Straight and Gay Alliance will sponsor a panel discussion focusing on "The Process of Coming Out" today at 5:30 p.m. in Dalloway's. Lesbian and bisexual alumnae and current students will dis­cuss sexual identity and the campus environment as part of the "National Coming Out Day" festivities. 
Welsh Family Hall will honor Hispanic Heritage Month today with a talk on "Immigration and Social Justice" by

A new interactive art exhibit stands in front of Little Theater in Moreau Hall at 
Associate Director of Latino 

Saint Mary's. The works feature giant grass and tents for students to walk through. 
Studies Allert Brown-Gort. The lecture is open to the pub­lic and will take place at 8 p.m. in Welsh Family Hall's lounge. 
OFFBEAT 

Dr. Richard Jackson, profes­Police looking for missing parts of the country. Talk about a whirlwind 
sor of environmental. health at giant cow Authorities have been noti­romance. 
UCB School of Public Health CHESAPEAKE, Va. -A fied. The cows cost $3,200-Howard Chenevert and 
and former director of CDC's full-size fiberglass cow was which makes stealing them a Julie Morgan met at a stag­
National Center for swiped from a Chick-fil-A felony. ing area for evacuees of 
Environmental Health and billboard overlooking an Keith Krause of Adams Hurricane Katrina beside 
Health Officer for California, interstate in eastern VIrginia. says he can't figure out how Interstate 10 after floodwa­
will give a lecture titled "It's kind of funny," said someone stole the 500-pound ters forced them from their 
"Urban Sprawl and Public Mark Baldwin, a spokesman cow. New Orleans homes. They 
Well-Being: How Urban for Atlanta-based Chick-ill-A But Krause joked about a got to know each other on a 
Planners and Architects are Inc. "But it's still a crime." possible suspect, since the bus ride to a shelter in 
Health Leaders" today from Tuesday, workers for Chick-fil-A billboards often Houston. 
4:30 p.m. to 6. The event will Adams Outdoor Advertising have cows painting a self­They got married .on 
be held in the School of noticed that one of two black­serving "Eat Chikin" mes­Sept. 19 in Lake Charles, 
Architecture Auditorium in and-white cows had vanished sage. La., where a relative 
104 Bond Hall. from the 50-foot-high bill­"Could this be a case of offered them a place to stay board along Interstate 464 in fowl play?" he asked. until Hurricane Rita closed 
To submit information to be 
included in this section of The
Chesapeake. It's the first time in. 
Chick-fil-A has lost a local Newlyweds met while 

Observer, e-mail detailed infor­cow, though about a dozen fleeing hurricane Information compiled 
mation about an event to have been stolen in other BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -from the Associated Press. 
obsnews@nd. edu 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY 
D:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
!c;: 
LLI 

3: 
....... 
c:a:: 
(.) 



..... 0 HIGH 65 HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH HIGH 68 LOW 50 LOW LOW LOW LOW LOW 50 






Atlanta 77 I 61 Boston 70 I 56 Chicago 66 I 45 Denver 67 I 40 Houston 76 I 53 Los Angeles 88 I 60 Minneapolis 66 142 New York 72 I 58 Philadelphia 66 I 52 Phoenix 97 I 74 Seattle 60 I 46 St. Louis 60 I 43 Tampa 86 I 76 Washington 74 I 60 
Monday, October I 0, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CCC works to fairly distribute club funding 
Council, led by president Beth O'Shaughnessy, regulates which clubs receive club status, controls budget, hears appeals 
By ALICIA CONLEY 
News Writer 
With the proposed rise in stu­dent activities fees, some stu­dents may wonder where their hard-1~arnml cash will be going eaeh year -but the Club Coordination Council (CCC) can at~counti(H· that money. 
The Ce<: controls University funding for dubs and regulates whkh dubs menive dub status and which do not. Council pn~si­chmt. senior Beth O'Shaughrwssy said tlw CCC's biggest responsi­bility is to distribute student adivilios foes to dubs. 
"Once a year, in tho spring, dubs apply for funding l'or the rwxt year's operation," O'Shaughnessy said. 
Studtmt activitios l'oos, which rnako up tho funding tho Council givos to clubs, "come from tuition, l'undraisers and dona­tions, but the biggest portion comes from Tho Shirt," O'Shaughnessy said. 
or the hundreds of' thousands ol' dollars raised through the selling ol' Tlw Shirt nvery ynar, thn CCC gets a percentago. Thn rnst of' the proceeds am distrib­utml to the Hoctor Fund, which helps studonts with unoxpnctod oxptHlses, and to other campus organizations. 
.Junior .Joe Molosky, tho Council controller, said the. Council uses funds from The Shirt to linance studnnt clubs. Molosky handles tho linancial sidn ol' tho CCC's activities -or as he put it, "making sure poo­
ple's budgets are correct." 
Tho busiest time of the year l'or the Council is during alloca­tion season, during which dubs · request the money they will need for tlwir rwxt year's activities. Tho allocation process is very time-consuming and demanding 
for Coundl rnprnsnntatives, and 
starts fairly narly. 
"In Fnbruary clubs submit a 
budget and a list ol' orticers so 
we know who to contact." 
O'Shaughnessy said. "They list 
what they spent through that 
academic year and what they 
want to spend in the next yfmr." 
Division Chairs then meet with 
the dub and then report back to 
the entirn Council and say how 
much funding they want overall. 
Molosky then attends a meet­
ing of the Financial Management 
Board (FMB) with the other stu­
dent organizations on campus 
and based on what the Division 
Chairs have told him they need 
requests a certain budget for the 
Council. The FM B, which allo­
cates the money, tells Molosky 
how mueh it ean all'ord to give to 
the Council. Molosky takes this 
number baek to the Couneil, and 
the money is then divided up 
among the divisions, which split 
it among their own dubs. 
Last year, for example, the 
Council askod the FMB for 
$349,000 and received 
$283,000. As president, 
O'Shaughnessy said she feels her 
"biggest task is representing 
clubs to the Financial 
Management Board." 

Clubs can also make appeals to the Council during the year for loans and money for unex­pected expenses and activities they were not planning on doing during allocation season. For example, "the ligure skating dub appealed for funding to go to nationals," O'Shaughnessy said. 
CCC representatives hold ollice hours so "dub leaders can come with questions and the represen­tatives can help them find answers," O'Shaughnessy said. "There's lots of' paperwork involved in holding an event, and it helps to have someone there to go and ask." 
In order to be a University-rec­ognized club, a group has to meet certain requirements, Molosky said. Groups applying for dub status arc given a small amount of money and then put on probation for a year. After a year they are voted on by the Couneil, and if they are approved they receive club sta­tus. 

Some elubs get more money than others. For example, Cirde K and llabitat for Humanity get a larger share of the money because they are big groups and 
sponsor  many  activitiP.s,  
Molorsky said.  
O'Shaughnessy  said  some  

clubs do not receive any money from the University, but "main­tain club status for access to resources that aren't necessarily financial." For example, club status enables a group to rent out space for activities that other organizations do not have access to. 
Faculty advisor to the Council Amy Geist described her job as induding "anything from sitting in on meetings with student groups with negative accounts to helping oversee the allocation process to attending weekly meetings," to planning the annu­al banquet. 
Geist, who has a master's degrne in higher education, said she wanted a job that would make use of' her background. She also wanted to work with college students in their extracurricular activities. 
In addition to representing clubs to the FMB, O'Shaughnessy also sits on the advisory board l'or the studtmt body president, the Coundl of Ht~prnsontatives (COH). !leads of other campus organizations such as class presidents arc on COH as well. If a club wants to eo­sponsor an activity with another organization that is not a club, such as a dorm, COH can give them funding l<>r it. 
Contact Alicia Conley at aconleyl@nd.edu 


ALL ENGINEERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
Monday, October 1 0, 2005

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
the costs of production. events like this," he said. "We "It's a great way to do have a few things in mind and
Vaughn 

events like this," Flaherty I'm confident the campus will said, "because it takes the have more fun soon."
continued from page 1 

financial risk to SUB and So far, SUB's hard work actor Justin Long, known for negates it." seems to have paid off, as the his roles in films such as In other words, neither SAO response from students like "Jeepers Creepers," "Galaxy nor SUB turned any profit freshman Clarissa Negrete Quest" and "Dodgeball." from the event, as all ticket has been overwhelming. Vaughn called up two students sales went to the promoter. "It was awesome. Some guy from the crowd to take their "It was structured as a was laughing so hard he fell best dodgeball shots at Long, break-even proposition from out of his chair," Negrete said. who managed to avoid all the University's side as to pro­Negrete said while the show attempts but one. The two vide a service to the student did not feature a dull moment, actors then reenacted a scene body by bringing in a large­there were a few highlights. from Vaughn's breakout film, name performance," Flaherty "[At some parts] I was cry­"Swingers," with Long playing said. ing because I was laughing Trent (Vaughn's character) There isn't much doubt that too hard," she said. "I thought and Vaughn playing Mike (Jon Vince Vaughn is a big name it was cool how they had Favreau's character). after films like "Old School," actors like the guy from 
Ohio native John Caparulo "Dodgeball" and the year's top 'Wedding Crashers' come in and New Jersey Italian Bret comedy, "Wedding Crashers." -that was really unexpect-Ernst rounded out the However, Vaughn has not for-ed. " comedic lineup, gotten where According to Negrete, the putting unique his film career show was well worth the spins everything started. The steep $30 ticket price.
"We've had nothing
from dogs to the echoes of "It was kind of expensive, bar scene to roller but positive responses "Rudy" chants but I don't regret it," she said. skating. to the event, both are still alive Flaherty said Negrete is in 
Vaughn's final and well at the majority.
before, but especially 
guest was actor Notre Dame, "We've had nothing but pos­
after. We sold over
Keir O'Donnell. Flaherty said, itive responses to the event, O'Donnell played 900 tickets in the first Vaughn's con­both before, but especially Todd Cleary, a nection with after," Flaherty said. "We sold
hour ofsales, so that 
homosexual that film was over 900 tickets in the first
shows how popular 
painter who takes a major rea­three hours of sales, so that a special interest the event was with son why the shows how popular this event in Vaughn's char­show was was with campus."
campus.
acter in the 2005 possible at Apparently, the event was box office smash all. popular with more than just
Jimmy Flaherty 
"Wedding "It just students. Vaughn and compa­Crashers." SUB Manager worked out ny had time to tour Notre Vaughn coaxed that the pro-Dame's campus, and accord­O'Donnell into moter want­ing to Flaherty, they enjoyed painting crowd-suggested ed to come here due to both the University and· the images, such as "Booty Call." [Vaughn's] tie-in with Rudy," crowd on Saturday night. Vaughn signed the final paint­Flaherty said. "Everything was very posi­ing, entitled "Celebration," Notre Dame's location also tive," Flaherty said, "The and gav·e it to a member of helped make the show possi­comedians thought that the the audience after acting out ble, as the stop before Notre crowd responded very well, the scene from "Wedding Dame was Detroit and the they loved the ND atmos­Crashers" in which the stop after is Milwaukee. phere, and considering how "Celebration" painting plays a "The promoter establishes smooth it went, no one had major role. the schedule for the tour and anything but positives to say." 
Vaughn brought the night to they obviously route the tour Freshman Elise Yahner said a close himself, leading the appropriately so that they the comedians' positive audience in a karaoke per­aren't zigzagging across the response to the Notre Dame formance of "Sweet Caroline." country," Flaherty said. "The community was a pleasant 
According to Student Union date became non-negotiable shock. Board (SUB) Manager Jimmy from our end since the avail­"The fact that the show Flaherty, there were about ability of a venue was limited came to the Notre Dame cam­1,900 people engaged in that and even still the logistics pus was surprising enough, sing-a-long -judging by the were tough with Relay for Life but the three actors who came number of tickets sold to the in Stepan in the morning. SUB along with Vince Vaughn were event, a vast majority of volunteers were able to get in surprising as well. Seeing which went to Notre Dame, f there early ... and provide them was great," she said. Saint Mary's and Holy Cross extra hands to make it work." "Also, after the show, Vince students. While it has been quite a Vaughn and the other per­
SUB and the Student while since a similar show formers in the show came Activities Office (SAO) made with such a big name has from backstage to sign auto­the show possible. According come to Notre Dame graphs and talk to the fans. to Flaherty, the show was ("Hardball" with Chris That was the best surprise of essentially a rental to a pro­Matthews filmed here in all." moter doing a tour. The 2003), Flaherty says students Student Activities Office nego­have many more to anticipate. Contact Joe Piarulli tiated the rental fee to offset "SUB is always looking for at jpiarull@nd.edu 

Research 
continued from page 1 
undergraduate research. 
"As a college we are thrilled to hear [University President] Father John Jenkins speak about this," he said. "He has been pushing this since four years ago. He is experienced enough to know that these things don't happen automatically." 
Business 
William Nichols, associate dean in the College of Business, said opportunities for under­graduates to become involved in faculty research are less com­mon in business than in other colleges. 
"I agree that [increasing undergraduate research] is something that we would like to think about . . . [but] it is going to take a while," he said. "It is more difficult in this field than in sci­ence and engineering." 
At the same time, Nichols did stress that some students have been directly involved in faculty research. For example, a former student in associ­ate professor of group. The students who have worked for me have been consci­entious and careful in what they are doing. They have been open to learning and they have been receptive . . . it has been a good experience." 
Nichols said that while busi­ness students may not be as like­ly to engage in purely academic research -hypothesis testing ­as in other colleges, they still gain experience in research that will serve them in the business world, such as researching stock investments or business plans. 
"Research skills that faculty use are not necessarily skills that we provide in the classroom. People in business are trained ... to be leaders ... in business," he said. 
Nichols also said students often engage in dassroom discussion and analysis of real-world busi­ness situations for which there is no clear-cut answer. 
"You have to go into the major and ask questions that haven't been a'ik(~d before and figure out how to do that," he said. "[We have] students actively involved on doing research on [issues] that would come before them in their profession­al lives and for 
management Hob "Research skills which there is no Easley's clear answer." 
that faculty use 
Management As a result of 
are not necessarily 
Information last year's Systems class used skills that we College Council skills learned in provide in the meeting, Nichols class about genetic said the College
classroom. People 
data to help out on of Business is a research project in business are committed to in the biology trained ... to be funding under­
department. graduate
leaders ... in
"Business stu­research, dents don't [usual­business." although there is ly] get to think no formal fund­about things like ing agency such
William Nichols 
curing malaria," as in the College
associate dean 
Easley said. "Skills they have learned locally, they are providing to other departments." 
Associate professor of market­ing Elizabeth Moore funded undergraduate students this summer to assist her with a proj­ect on the connection between marketing and childhood obesity. Two undergraduates are contin­uing to work with her this semester. A former student and recent graduate Gail Bowman co-authored a paper with her that was presented at a national conference last weekend. 
"I think they [undergraduates] are terrific," Moore said. "I think our students are a very talented of Arts and 
Letters. 
"We have made a commitment that we will fund this [under­graduate research] but we have not done anything yet to struc­ture or promote the initiative," he said. 
Nichols also said the College of Business stands behind Jenkins' priority with regards to under­graduate research. 
"We will react to Father Jenkins' ... important initiative," he said. "We will do everything possible to meet that initiative ... we just have to brainstorm." 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombel@nd.edu 
Live alittle.. on Mondays! 



Abroad 
continued from page 1 
dynamics of European social, economic and political systems as they influence contemporary gender theory, policy and women's identities. 
'The Women's Studies Advisory Committee chose the Antioch Comparative Women's Studies in Europe program because of its strong national reputation in the field of Women's Studies," Henry said. 
Michael Sanders, director of Student Programs and assistant professor of Business Communications and Internships, is directing the sum­mer-based Business Internships in the European Union program. He could not be reached for com­ment. 

"The program opens up a brand new format of internships for [Saint Mary's], an experiential learning mode which students are increasingly seeking," Meyer-Lee said of the Business Internships opportunity. 
In the past two years, Saint Mary's has added foreign study in six different countries with much success, including Australia, Ecuador and Mexico. 
For many years, Saint Mary's women have been encouraged to try out the different options and opportunities available to them; and they have enrolled in the programs enthusiastically. 
"While we expect new pro­grams to start very gradually, reaction from the students look­ing to these kinds of experiences has been very positive," Meyer­Lee said. "We measure the suc­cess of any individual program by the quality of the experience of the student, not the quantity it enrolls.1' 
Contact Lisa Gallagher at lgallaO I @saintmarys.edu 
EnJoy adouble order of chlckett, steak or cotttbo fajttas (ettOugh for 1WoJ for Just tll!* 




• •i 
MIIHAWA.KA 4sto .,..,. ld.. m..n.o 
..VIII MfY M!JNay Uu.'h._ 





ORLD & NATION 
Monday, October I0, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Poultry slaughter begins in Turkey 
ISTANBUL, Turkey-The slaughter of thousands of' domestic fowl in Turkey and Homania began Sunday as a preeaution against tho sprnad of' bird l'lu al'ter both countrins confirmml their first casns of the disnase over the wenkend. 
In wnstern Turkey, military police set up roadblocks at the entrance to a village near Balikesir. A two-mile radius was quaran­tinnd as vntHrinarians and other ofTieials began destroying poultry at two turkey farms. 
It was not dnar how many animals would bn destroynd. hut the Anatolia news agency reportnd that authorities had slaughternd 600 out of' 2,500 turkeys on one farm by noon Sunday. 
Other fowl -inducting pigeons -and stray dogs in the village would also be killed as a prncaution, said Nihat Pakdil, under­secretary of' Turkey's Agrir.ulture Ministry. 
U.S. death toll reaches 200 in war 
KABUL, Afghanistan -An American soldier who stepped on a land mine hecanw the 200th U.S. military member to he killed in and around Afghanistan since the Taliban was ousted four years ago, of'f"ieials reported Saturday. 
This year has been the deadliest yet for the 21 ,000-strong U.S.-led coalition foree, with 84 soldiers killed. The toll comes amid a major increase in insurgent vio­lmtn~ that has lnft morn than l,:wo people dead since March. 
Thn latest American death came Friday while U.S. troops patrolled in a part of' llelmand provinee that has been wraeked by violence by Taliban-led rebels, a mili­tary statement said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
New York bomb plot fears lessen 
NEW YOHK-A reported plot to bomb city subways with remote-controlled explosives has not bnnn corroborated aftnr days of' invnstigation. law-enforcement of'lieials said Sunday amid an easing sense of' concern. 
Interrogations of' suspects captured in Iraq last wnnk after an informant's tip about bomb-laden suitcasns and baby carriages have yet to yield evidence that the plot was real, oflicials said. 
"Thn intfdligence community has been able to determinn that there are very serious doubts about thn erndibility of this spneifie threat," llomnland Security Department spokesman Huss Knoeke said. "This is after ongoing rnvinw and analysis." 

Heavy rains force evacuations in NH 
EENE, N.ll. -llundrnds of' people were forend to evacuatn thnir homes after a wnnknnd of' drenching rain washed out roads and flooded homes in states from North Carolina to NHw llampshire. 
At lnast three deaths were blamed on the storm. 
New llampshirn Gov. John Lyneh deelared a state of' nmergency Sunday and called in 500 National Guard members to assist in flood relief. Transportation Commissioner Carol Murray said police and highway crews blocked damaged roads before dawn, a move that likely prevented injuries. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Interstate-70 repairs set for 2006 
INDIANAPOLIS -A crumbling stretch of 1-70 will bn rnbuilt beginning next year in tlw largnst highway project in the Downtown arna since llyperfix in 2003. 
Work on thn six-mile project on the city's Eastside is expectnd to cause major traffic tin-ups for tens of thousands of motorists who travell-70 daily. 
Thn intnrstate is one of Indiana's busiest roads, serving as the city's main gateway from points east and is a key eornrnuting link bPlween Downtown and suburbs to the north and east. 
COMPILED FROM THE 0HSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
PAKISTAN 


Death toll at 20,000 and rising 
Pakistan's largest-ever earthquake leaves 2.5 million in need ofshelter, says U.N. 
Associated Press 

MUZAFFAHABAD Heseuers struggled to reach remote, mountain­ous areas Sunday after Pakistan's worst-ever earthquake wiped out entire villages, buried roads in rubble and knocked out eleetrieity and water supplies. The death loll stood at 20,000 and was expected to rise. 
In this devastated Himalayan city, wounded covered by shawls lay in the street, and villagers used sledgehammers to break through the rubble of l"lattened schools and homns seeking survivors. 
The quake collapsed the eity's Islamabad Public School. Soldiers with white cloth tied around their mouths and noses pulled a small girl's dust-covered body from the ruins, while the body of a boy remained pinned between heavy slabs of' concrete. 
The United Nations said more than 2.5 million peo­ple need shelter aftnr the magnitude-?.6 earthquake along the Pakistan-India border. The Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Relief' said it urgently needed 200,000 winterized tents. 
President Gen. Pervez 
Shaukat Sultan said. ing onlookers. One rescuer 20,000 peopln killed, andMusharraf complained of a 
The quake was felt patted his head, and the Prime Minister Shaukatshortage of helicopters 
across a wide swath of man waved and pumped Aziz told CNN about 4:~.000
needed to ferry in relief 
South Asia from central his fist in the air. people were injurnd.
workers. food and medical 
Afghanistan to western Pakistan said the death Musharraf' said the only
supplies, and appealed for Bangladesh. It swayed toll ranged between 20.000 way to reaeh many far­international help. 
buildings in the capitals of and 30,000. India reported flung amas was by helicop­In Washington, President 
three nations, with the more than 600 dead, and ter because roads were
Bush said eight U.S. mili­damage spanning at least Afghanistan said fimr were impassable.
tary ehoppers were being 250 miles from Jalalabad killed. "Our helicopter
moved to help in rescue 
in Afghanistan to Srinagar "We have enough man­resources are limited," heefforts, and he promised in northern Indian territo­power but we need finan­told the BBC. "We needfinancial assistance. India, ry. In Islamabad, a 10-story cial support ... to cope with massiv1~ cargo helicopter
whieh has fought three 
building collapsed, killing the tragedy," Musharraf' support."
wars with Pakistan, also 
at least 24 people. said in Hawalpindi, accord­Most of the devastationoffered assistance, as did Late Sunday, helmeted ing to the state-run nnws occurred in northernIsrael, whieh has no rela­rescuers found a survivor agency Associated Press of Pakistan. The U.S.
tions with the Muslim after hearing his cries for Pakistan. Geological Survey said thenation. 
help. The thin man in a Be also appealed for quake was centered about"We are handling the 
blue shirt, looking dazed, medicine and tents. 60 miles northeast of theworst disaster in Pakistan's emerged on his own with Musharraf told the capital, Islamabad, in the
history." chief army 
little help and stood in British Broadcasting Corp. forested mountains of
spokesman Maj. Gen. 
front of a crowd of cheer-he knew of as many as Pakistani Kashmir. 

Police beating filmed by reporters 
after he and about a dozen other dragged to the ground by four offi­
Associated Press 

high-ranking police department ofli­cers. Another of the four oflicers then 
NEW ORLEANS -Two New cials watched the APTN footage kneed Davis and punched him twice. Orleans police officers repeatedly Sunday. "It's a troubling tape, no Davis was !~tee-down on the sidewalk punched a 64-year-old man accused doubt about it. ... This department with blood streaming down his arm of public intoxication, and another will take immediate action." and into the gutter. city officer assaulted an Associated The assaults come as the depart­Meanwhile, a fifth of'!ieer ordered Press Television News producer as a ment, long plagued by allegations of APTN producer Rich Matthews and cameraman taped the confrontations. brutality and corruption, struggles the cameraman to stop recording. 
There will be a criminal investiga­with the aftermath of' Hurricane When Matthews held up his creden­tion, and the thre11 officers were to be Katrina and the resignation last tials and explained he was working, suspended, arrested and eharged month of Police Superintendent Eddie the officer grabbed the producer, with simple battery Sunday. Capt. Compass. leaned him backward over a ear, Marlon Defillo said. As of Sunday The APTN tape shows an officer hit­jabbed him in the stomaeh and evening, the officers were being ques­ting the man at least four times in the unleashed a profanity-laced tirade. tioned but had not been arrested, head Saturday night as he stood out­''I've been here for six weeks trying Delillo said. side a bar near Bourbon Street. The to keep ... alive.... Go horne!" shoutnd 
"We have great concern with what suspect, Robert Davis, appeared to the oflicer, who later identified him­we saw this morning," Defillo said resist, twisting and flailing as he was self as S.M. Smith. 
Monday, October 10, 2005 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Scholarship progra111 




fails to yield graduates 
Three-fourths ofparticipants drop out each year 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -A state scholarship program that helps thousands of students go to col­lege each year is losing three­fourths of them before they can graduate. 
Seventy-five percent of the stu­dents who reach college under the 21st Century Scholars pro­gram do not finish with a degree despite having all tuition and fees paid for, the Indianapolis Star reported Sunday. 
Vermia Thornton, 24, of Gary was one of them. After a bright start at Indiana University­Purdue University-Indianapolis, her grades slipped after she moved off campus to save money, ended a relationship with a man she had dated through college and struggled in advanced math classes. 
She dropped out of as a senior last fall and now works for an Indianapolis liquor distribution company. 
"I didn't have any outlet or anybody to talk to," Thornton said. 
Since 1995. 25,000 students have gone to college under the 21st Century Scholars, which offers financial assistance to lower-income students who pledge, among other things, to keep their grades up artd remain drug-free. Indiana spends $19 million a year on the effort. 
The scholarships more than triple the odds that a needy stu­dent will graduate from college: Without the scholarships, researchers estimate the gradua­tion rate would be 7 percent. the Star reported. 

"Four-year schools are begin­ning to realize it's not enough to get people successfully in the door," said Martha Lamkin, pres­ident of the private Lumina Foundation, which focuses on education. "You also have to work with them in college to help them stay in college." 
Educators are trying to find new ways to help students stay in school, including pairing incom­ing scholars with their older counterparts. 
"No one is showing them which path to go," said Demetrees Hutchins, an IUPUI graduate stu­dent who works with scholarship students. Consequently, "you get a lot of scholars who drop out." 
Former Gov. Evan Bayh pro­posed the 21st Century Scholars program in 1990, and state law­makers passed it into law the same year. 
Under the program, seventh­and eighth-graders who are poor enough to qualify for free or reduced price lunches are offered the opportunity to pledge good citizenship and passing grades in return for four years of college tuition at any participat­ing Indiana public college or uni­versity, most of which participate. 
Students who pick private schools receive scholarships comparable to tuition at a public college or university. Students must sign up within two years of high school graduation, and they have io years to earn a degree. 
The first class of 5,722 scholars enrolled in the program in the 1990-91 school year. Since then, 122,000 students have enrolled. Many have yet to finish high school. 
Fee 
continued from page 1 
Affairs Father Mark Poorman before being enacted by the University budgeting group. 
Proposed fee increases have also led to consideration about misappropriation of club money. In 1989 one such proposal caused some sena­tors to suggest misuse of funds, a Feb. 19, 1989 Observer article said. 
But while budget crunches are certainly important to the explanation, they are not the primary focus of the commit­tee's proposal this year. The College Readership Program, a pilot program sponsored by USA Today that elicited posi­tive student feedback at Notre Dame last spring, would get $10 of the extra $15. 
The College Readership Program itself has not gener­ated controversy, but student government representatives and some students have voiced concern that demand for the papers would surpass the supply. 
The $10 collected from each student would fund about 1,600 papers a day, student body president Dave Baron said. But the potential prob­lem stems from statistics col­lected by USA Today two weeks into Notre Dame's pilot program that show a daily average of 2,035 papers dis­tributed with a mere one per­cent return rate, implying that 1,600 papers would not be sufficient to meet student demand. 
To combat this problem, Baron said Academic Affairs committee chair Chris Harris would conduct an "aggressive campaign" with bins in the dining halls to promote paper sharing. 
He said the breakdown between USA Today, New 
York Times and Chicago Tribune newspapers could be shifted, explaining that the New York Times costs about two times as much as the Chicago Tribune. This means that increasing the amount of Chicago Tribunes and decreasing the amount of New York Times papers offered would allow for greater total numbers of newspapers available. 
"We would be able to get that number up just by switching the distribution of the papers," said Baron, who thought the number could reach "at least 1,750." 
Other measures to prevent a paper shortage would include reducing the number of paper locations to the din­ing halls and an off-campus location to deter University faculty and staff from taking advantage of the program, Baron said. 
"If they're going to get them [the papers], they should pay for it," Baron said. 
He did not think there would necessarily be a paper shortage. 
"I think the numbers near the end of the pilot program were inflated," Baron said. "We do think whoever wants to get a paper early enough will be able to ... And the aca­demic value brought by the papers will be transmitted throughout the student body." 
Many students seemed to support the proposed fee increase, citing the benefits of the College Readership Program. 
"I think it's a positive thing because I think it's important to be informed," sophomore Mary Sullivan said. "I miss not having access to those newspapers and I thought it was a really good program. I don't mind paying the extra $15." 
Junior Sarah Shaw also said she would support the pro­gram's implementation, although she would like to see the Washington Post avail­able. 
"I enjoyed the readership program," Shaw said. ''I'm for it, and I don't mind paying an extra $15." 
Other students, however, were skeptical. 
"If everyone's paying $15 per semester, everyone should have the opportunity to pick up a newspaper," jun­ior Britton Kreiner said. "But il' a large proportion aren't going to use the benefits, then why should they pay for it?" 
Kreiner said the program's success would depend on the amount of papers available. 
"Basically, if they get enough copies of the Times or USA Today then no one will complain, but if there's like a small stack that's all gone by the time people get there, then I'm going to ask why I am paying $15 for it," he said. 
Some students didn't have strong opinions one way or another -an example that may support Baron in his belief that there will not be a serious paper shortage. 
"As someone who doesn't read the paper, I'm not excit­ed about paying more, but then again my parents are paying so I don't think I would notice that much," jun­ior Steven Kurtz said. 
But he said he supported the concept and the pro­gram's goal. 
''I'd say the [student activity feel increase is important," Kurtz said. "It's good and !the readership program] will help get people to know what's going on outside of Notre Dame. It's a decent idea." 
Mary Kate Malone con­tributed to this report. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 



Everything you need for high-speed Internet access. 
Sign up for the SBC Student Plan SBC Yahoo! DSL Express + Your Local Access line 
as low as 
$ 
75* 
a month for a g-month term! 
~otl!el month(y charge1· apply. 

Taxes, other charges and the Federal Universal Service Fund cost-recovery fee extra. For details of additional charges, restrictions and requirements, calll-866-472-7965 toll-free or visit sbc.com/u. SBC, the SBC logo and other SBC product names are trademarks and/or setVice marks of SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. and/or its affiliates. All other trademarks and setVice marks are the property of their respective owners. ©2005 SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. All rights resetVed. IN 
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday, October I 0, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,292.31 +5.21

jones '~ 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volum 1,081 150 2,821,117.280
ys 

AMEX I ,674.90 +23.26 NASDAQ 2,090.35 +6.27 NYSf 7:435.19 +35.51] S&PSOO 1,195.90 +4.41 NIKKEI(Tol<yo) I 3,2 2 7 . 7 4 ~131.77 FTSf IOO(Lonclon) 5,362.30 ~10.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ)  +0.24  +0.09  38.3  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.57  -0.14  24.5  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -0.42  -0.05  IU  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  -2.73  -0.06  2.1  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -0.56  -0.10  17.6  


30-YEAR BOND -0.39 -0.18 45.6' I0-YEAR NOTE -0.11 -0.05 43.6 5-YEAR NOTE +0.14 +0.06 42.3' 3-MONTH BILL +0.60 +0.21 35.3: 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.48 62.00 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.70 477.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.08 97.48 
fxcha Rates 

YEN II 3.725 EURO 0.824 POUND 0.568 CANADIAN$ 1.175 
IN BRIEF 
Third quarter profits expected 
NI•:W YOHK-Even with the nconomk dis­ruption eausnd by Hurricanes Hila and Katrina. analysts expect U.S. companiPs to rnporl quite satisfactory double-digit prof'it growth when tlH~y start releasing third-quar­tnr narnings in the coming week. 
It's the fourth quartnr that could cause con­stnrnalion, as the impact of soaring energy prices and ollwr aftnrnll'ncts of the hurricanes arn liknly to be reflected in companies' profit forncasls. i\nd that will probably lead invnslors to focus on "What will you do for me'!" instead of' "What have you dono for me lall~ly'!" as lhny perusn third-quarter results. 
Standard & Poor's analysts say companins within the S&l' 500 index are expnctnd to rnporl aggrngaln profit gains of 14 percent for Lhn third quarter -a record 14th consecutive quarter of' double-digit gains. 
"Wn'rn setting record on top of' record hen~." said lloward Silverblatt, equity marknt analyst at S&l'. "We're nowhere near the 20 percent growth we may have seen a few quarters ago, hut earnings will certainly be decent." 
Wall Street makes quiet advance 
NI·:W YOHK-Wall Strnct made a muted advanen Friday but still finishnd tho week lower after a bntter-than-expeelnd mnploymenl report raisnd hopes about the eeonomy's strnngth despite lhn rm:onl hurricanes. The major indexes each lost morn than 2 porennt liw tho wonk. 
Tlw markol came back Friday from three straight days of' loss1~s after tho Labor Dnparlmenl said Soplmnher payrolls, while down lhr tho first tinw in two ynars, 11~11 by only 35,000 jobs. Fearing an OCOIJOmic slump in tho wako of hurricanos Katrina and Hila, oeonomisl'i had fiwneasl a drop of' 150,000. 
But while tho Dow Jones industrial average rose as much as 60 shortly af'lnr tho oponing boll. stocks gave up most of' llwir gains throughout tho day amid sonw skepticism about the report. lnwstors also await1~d grnatnr darity about tho emnomy's lwalt.h from upcoming third-quarter l'arnings and li>rward-looking eslirnatns. 
"i\ny 1:PIPimtlion tho market was going to put on was ovorshadowod by tho f'ael that (tho job loss) W<L'in'l good news," said i\rlhur Hogan, chiol' marknl analyst at Jnfli~rins & Co. "I think calmor minds prnvailed." 
Delphi files for bankruptcy 
U.S. auto industry could face drastic changes; UAW asked to accept major pay cuts 
Associated Press 

i\NN i\HBOH, Mich. ­Delphi Corp.'s bankruptcy could change the face of the 
U.S. auto industry, ralchel­ing up the pressure to pro­duce cheaper auto parts ovnrseas and forcing unprecedcntod cuts in union wages and bnnnlits. industry analysts and auloworkers said Sunday. 
Delphi, the largest U.S. auto supplier, filed fiJr bank­ruptcy Saturday and is expected to slash jobs and wages and dose many of its :n U.S. plants as part of its reorganization. General Motors Corp., Delphi's largest customer and former parent, said it might have to assume up to $11 billion in retirement bnnef'its for Delphi's union-represented mnployees. 
But the ripple ellocts won't end there. Delphi has 500 suppliers of' its own who are waiting to see what kind of labor agreement Delphi negotiates with the United i\uto Workers. Once a leaner Delphi emerges from bank­
ruptcy, expected in 2007, il<> Young, a UAW member from supplier planl'i are part of a a real waterslwd point for suppliers could face added Anderson, Ind., has worked growing pattern that Ui\W the Ui\W," Cole said. "The pressure to lower their own for auto supplier Guide members need to confront Ui\W is virtually powerless costs through wage cuts or Corp. since 2002 and wor­during Delphi's restructur­now." increased usc of overseas ries that Guide will match ing. James McTevia, a restruc­labor. changes in Delphi's con­"I think Delphi workers turing expert who is reprn­
"There's a great deal of tracts because Delphi has a probably have no choice but senting Delphi suppliers in concern among auto suppli­plant nearby. Guide, like to strike," she said. "The the bankruptcy proenndings, ers about whether they can Delphi, already has a two­corporation has filed bank­said Dnlphi could set a new remain profitable or survive tier wage agreement that ruptcy and they've kind of' model for the enlirn industry with union contracts," said allows it to pay newer hires drawn the line in tho sand by sealing back its hourly Jim Gillett<~. a supplier ana­like Young around $15 per about what they're willing to work fim:e and its U.S. man­lyst with CSM Worldwide. "If hour, $8 less than its older do. It seems to me that any ul~teturing capacity and giv­Delphi's willing to force hires. negotiation between our ing lower wages and benn­renegotiation through a In a letter sent to UAW leadership and Delphi will f'ils to tho workers that bankruptcy liling, I suspect members last week, local not be very productive." remain. other suppliers would do the union leaders in Indiana But David Cole, chairman Such a change is sorely same." said Delphi wants to cut of the Center for i\utomotive needed. McTevia said. i\utos 
Delphi's bankruptcy, hourly wages from $27 to Hesearch, said the Ui\W will and auto parts will always which is expoeted to rnsult $10-$12, slash vacation time have to move from a con­be made in the llnilml Stales in plant closures and layolls, and make workers con­frontational mode to one of for U.S. customers, he said, is one of the largest in U.S. tribute more for their own collaboration if it's going to but the country needs less history. The Troy-based health care. The letter survive. With Delphi's bank­capacity than it currently company has 50,000 U.S. warned that cuts under a ruptcy, wages will be sol by has, and companies rwml to employees. bankruptcy judge could be the market, not by bargain­increase their presence in 
Union members also are even worse. ing. emerging markets such as watching closely. Tonyia Young said concessions at "The Delphi bankruptcy is i\sia. 

Mittal Steel picks Chicago over IN 
here," he said at a news conference ious locations across tho country,
Associated Press 

with Mayor Hichard Daley and other Schorsch said. induding northwest 
CIIICi\GO-Mittal Steel Co., the stale and local ollidals. Indiana and Ohio. world's largest steel producer, has Mittal Steel US;\ will receive $7.5 mil­In rneenl years a number of' Chicago­selneted Chkago for il'i U.S. headquar­lion from the state in tax crcdil'i and to based companies sueh as i\nwril1~ch. ters and will open its ol'lice here in pay for job training and infrastructure Quaker Oats, and ;\moen have been January, oflidals announced Friday. eosl'i and another $2 million from the bought out by companies based else­
The company said 212 employees eily to help pay for equipment, fixtures where. Daley nol1~d that while much scattered across several states will and furniturn. has been written about lhosn dnwlop­move into a high rise now under con­In i\pril, the NethRrlands-basnd com­mP.nl'i, Chicago has also in r1~ennt. years struction in tho downtown business dis­pany look control of three major mills attracted companies, most notably triel. in Indiana through a $4.5 billion dmd Boning Co. 
Louis S<:horsch, CEO of Mittal's U.S. with International Steel Group of "Chicago is ideally locatml f'or a glob­division, said the company chose the Hkhlinld, Ohio, which had previously al company likn this," said Daley. who dty in part for its law and audit firms bought up steel mills Jell idled by bank­poinlnd to lhn arna's well-mlucat.nd and its proximity to two airports -ruptcy, including LTV Corp. and work fim:e, nationally-ranked business something he said was espf1eially Bethlnhmn Steel. schools and proximity to airports that important because the international Oflieials from the state of Indiana and allow travel non-stop to dtins through­headquartm·s is in the Netherlands and Porter and Lake counties there had out the country and llw world. the eompany opnratns in 14 countries lobbiml tlw wmpany to put its head­Thn dty also stands to bmwlil f'rom and throughout the United Slatns. quarters in Indiana because it mnploys thn move, said Paul O'Connor, nxei~U­
"The kind of support services you about 10.000 people at mills in East live dirndor of World Busirwss Chicago, need to efTeetively run a corporate Chicago and Burns Harbor. Mittal's a not-f'or-prolit neonomk dnwlopmenl headquarl1~rs are rnally appropriatnly executives curnmlly operate out of var-corporation. 
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, October 10, 2005 
Dozens flee flood ravaged Mayan towns in Guatemala 
Five days after Hurricane Stan's landfall in Central America villagers end search for survivors, hundreds still missing 
Associated Press 
GUATEMALA CITY-Dozens of foreign tourists fled devastat­ed lakeside Mayan towns on foot and by helicopter Sunday as Guatemalan officials said they would abandon communi­ties buried by landslides and declare them mass graveyards. 
Villagers who had swarmed over the vast mudslides with shovels and axes digging for hundreds of missing gave up the effort Sunday, five days after Hurricane Stan made landfall on the Gulf of Mexico coast, bringing torrential rains before weakening to a tropical depression. 
More than 640 people died and hundreds more were miss­ing across Central America and southern Mexico after a week of rains. In hardest-hit Guatemala, 51 9 bodies had been recovered and reburied. Some 338 were listed as missing. 
"Panabaj will no longer exist," said Mayor Diego Esquina, referring to the Mayan lakeside hamlet in Guatemala covered by a half-mile-wide mudf1ow as much as 15 to 20 feet deep. "We are asking that it be declared a cemetery. We are tired. We no longer know where to dig." 
Many of the missing appar­ently will simply be declared dead, and the ground they rest in declared hallowed ground. About 160 bodies have been recovered in Panabaj and near­by towns, and most have been buried in mass graves. 
Vice President Eduardo Stein said steps were being taken to give towns "legal permission to declare the buried areas" as hallowed ground. 

Attention turned to aiding thousands of hungry or injured survivors as helicopters ­including U.S. Blackhawks and Chinooks -fanned out across Guatemala to evacuate the wounded and bring supplies to more than 100 communities still cut off by mudslides and flooding. 
On Sunday, as aid workers reached the most remote areas, they learned that a mudslide had buried a storm shelter in the town of Tacana, about 12 miles from the Mexican border, where about 100 people had taken refuge from rains and flooding. 
Thirty-seven bodies have been dug from the shelter since the mudslide hit Wednesday, and 52 people were still miss­ing, said Jorge Hernandez of the country's civil defense agency. 
Thousands of hungry and injured survivors mobbed heli­copters delivering the first food aid to communities that have been cut off from the outside world for nearly a week. 
Some communities along Guatemala's Pacific coast have been cut off for almost a week, and when aid helicopters finally arrived on Sunday, hungry and desperate villagers grabbed wildly at bags of f1our, rice and sugar. 
As some foreign tourists worked shoulder to shoulder with Mayans in traditional cot­ton blouses and broad sashes to dig for missing victims, others hiked around mud-choked roads or boarded government helicopters in the second day of evacuations from the area around Lake Atitlan. 

Helicopters went to the near­by town of San Andres Semetabaj to fly out an esti­mated 20 Scandinavians trapped since mudslides cut off the area several days ago. About 50 more tourists were hiking out of the lakeside town of Panajachel. 
"We got about 400 (tourists) out last night, and were expecting more today," said Solomon Reyes of Guatemala's Tourism Ministry. 
In some areas the arrival of the Guatemalan military only complicated matters. Villagers in Panabaj refused to allow in the army because of memories of a 1990 massacre there dur­ing the country's 36-year civil war. 
But U.S. military helicopters from Joint Task Force Bravo based at Soto Cano Air Base in Honduras joined the rescue efforts with a half-dozen Blackhawk helicopters and one Chinook transport helicopter, running flights through dense clouds and heavy fog. 
"We're still in search-and­rescue mode," said Army Maj. Bob Schmidt. "We're in the saving life and limb thought process." 
The U.S. craft delivered some medical supplies and personnel and evacuated children needing medical care. 
In El Salvador, authorities reported 71 deaths from the rains, after two people where swept away by flood waters in San Salvador on Saturday. 
The rest of the dead were scattered throughout Nicaragua, Honduras, Costa Rica and southern Mexico. 
Mexican President Vicente Fox visited devastated Chiapas state Sunday as floodwaters began to recede. 
"The important thing is that the worst is over," Fox said. "Now comes the reconstruc­tion." 

Pope hails anti-Nazi bishop as courageous example 
Benedict said. Vatican's crusade against abortion Muenster Bishop Reinhard Beatification is the last formal and euthanasia as attacks on life. Lettmann. step before possible sainthood. The German churchman's homi­However, von Galen was not 
Later, addressing pilgrims in St. lies "invite us who live in times arrested. The Nazis were worried Peter's Square, Benedict praised apparently less threatening, but that if von Galen were arrested the bishop for "protecting the not less problematic for human and killed, Muenster's residents Jews and the weakest persons, life, to imitate his example," would be angernd and "written off which the regime considered Saraiva Martins said. as lost during the duration of the garbage to eliminate." Von Galen's homilies were war." Lettmann wrote. 
"This is precisely the ever-cur­secretly copied and circulated, Von Galen helped a Protestant rent message of Blessed von according to German chw·eh olli­pastor to hide a Jewish boy in an Galen: faith is not reduced to a cials. institute belonging to the bishop's private sentiment, perhaps some­Nazis deported to concentration ollice and took responsibility for thing to hide when it becomes camps 37 priests-of whom 10 the youth, who after the war was inconvenient, but implies coher­perished-in von Galen's place as reunited with his mother, accord­ence and witness even in the pub­punishment for the homilies, ing to testimony carried by Vatican lic sphere in defense of man, of according to a brief biography by Hadio. justice, of truth," Benedict said. 
Wanting to give his church fresh role models, Pope John Paul II liked to lead beatification cere­monies before large crowds in St. Peter's Square. But his successor, Benedict, has turned over that 
has denied this. role to prelates, and Sunday's cer­
Associated Press "Von Galen feared God more emony was presided over by VATICAN CITY -A German than man, and this gave him the Cardinal Jose Saraiva Martins, bishop known as the "Lion of courage to say and to do things who heads the Vatican sainthood Muenster" for his courageous that many intelligent persons did office. anti-Nazi sermons during World not do in that period in Germany," Von Galen spoke out against the War II took a step on the road to Benedict said in his native Nazi campaign to exterminate the sainthood when he was beatified German. mentally ill and handicapped, and Sunday in St. Peter's Basilica. The pope came to the basilica at Saraiva Martins hailed the bishop Pope Benedict XVI hailed the the end of the ceremony to greet for denouncing the Nazi regime's "heroic courage" of Clemens churchmen, public officials and "death machine" during what August von Galen and described pilgrims who came from Muenster were "very difficult times for the the churchman, who condemned and elsewhere in Germany. German church and nation." anti-Semitism. as a model for Von Galen, who joins the Benedict has kept up the those in public roles today. Church's list of the "blessed" Von Galen died in 1946, at age through his beatification, dedicat­68, a few weeks after Pope Pius ed himself to "defending the rights XII raised him to the rank of car­of God, of the church, of man. dinal. which the national socialist (Nazi) Some Jews have claimed that regime violated in a grave and Pius XII did not act forcefully systematic way, in the name of an against the Holocaust. The Vatican aberrant, neo-pagan ideology," 


Monday, October I 0, 2005 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Funeral tradition continues 
Procession returns to hurricane-ravaged streets of New Orleans 
Associated Press 
NI\W OHI.EANS -This 
eity's historical jazz funeral 
procession returnnd to 
dehris-linnd strnnts Sunday to 
honor a famous chnf who 
diNI last month in Atlanta, 
whnrn hn had nvacuatnd after 
being reseund from 
llurrkann Katrina's floodwa­
ters. 
Morn than two dozen peo­
ple carrying blaek and white 
photos of a smiling Austin 
Leslie marched down the 
streets of the devastated 
Seventh Ward in New 
Orlnans, celebrating the life 
of the famous chef whose 
Clwz Helene soul food restau­
rant inspired the television 
show "Frank's Place" in the 
AP

1<JXOs. 
Members of the Hot 8 jazz band play during a Jazz funeral
l.eslin, 71, was rnscued 
procession for Austin Leslie on Sunday In New Orleans. 
from his homo two days al'tnr 
llurrieann Katrina and went 
to Atlanta to bn with rnla­location of Chez Helene, lance by daneing, clapping 
tivns. lin died Snpl. 29 after daneing past debris and and singing. 
falling ill. An garbage that Mildred Matthews, 79, was 
autopsy rnport remained along swaying on her front porch 
was pnnding. the streets six waving a fly swatter in the 
A brass band "It's going to get weeks after air as they passed. started Sunday's Katrina flooded "You all come back to New
back to normal

procession with a the city. Orleans," she yelled out. spiritual hymn, eventually. We're "It's going to get Gralen Banks, a member of "A Closnr Walk going to bring back to normal a local social club leading the With Thnn," evnntually," said procession, said the scaled­
the life back. " 

which was fol­snare drum play­back procession was a first­lownd by dandng, or Dinerral step toward restoring New singing and the Dlnerral Shavers Shavers, 24. Orleans' jazz heritage. waving and snare drum player "We're going to "This is how we do it. We twirling of ynllow b r i n g ain't closed. umbrellas. the life Tell your 
Stan "Pampy" back." friends," he Barre, the owner of Pampy's As the procession "This is how we do said. Creole Kitchen in New made its way But Jason
it. We ain't closed. 
Orleans, the restaurant toward the Berry, an
Tell your friends. " 
wlwre Leslie had last worked Backstreet Cultural author who and wlwre the procession Museum on the out-has written a began, said the crowd was skirts of the French Gralen Banks history of "going to march into New Quarter, the few New Orleans
procession leader 
Orleans and dance him into residents who have music and is heaven." returned home working on a Thn group madn several came out of their book about stops, including the former houses and joined in the jubi-the history of jazz funerals in 
,.....--------------------------.the city, said the city's musi­
cal establishment still has a way to go before returning to its pre-Katrina status.
Write news. 

"On a sentimental level, one can't help but be delighted," he said. "It certainly speaks
Call Heather at 1-5323. 
about the endurance of the art form of jazz and the L;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;~funeral traditions associated 
• 
Collar this opportutttty 


to leartt about graduate studies lrt cntttirtologyt 
Shaw11 Jushway 
~Crl~lnoiOQY as an Interdisciplinary, Polley relevant Social Science: 
How a lloiHer 6eca1He a Professor of CrfiHino/ogy-
October 11 .. 7:30pm 220 Malloy 
Refruhltlettts provided 

~UNJYJ!M!\ITYOF ~j._ \) N l V h RS l ·1_· V t.)l;.
'1,1.11 NOTRE DAME 
'""'~~" MAR.YLAND 
AHHrx•}}.,,{.t} r JlJ•o I(Jf.f H', r'L•uf.{i'f.l,(!l l.)ll tllr.l Jil1~Ull1 Jlllllm ~H'Ct•lJll~ tUld ~Jtu:!Ll''''"J J.'>c1l1(l.Y 
UlllVO•i :;lt.,_v nf' N\)f,J'(·) DHriil'• l ~ •B~-i 
JV•r~l'llll.lJ!.g J.~:"IhO!'H f~ •I' ~I'W Jt l"ttr ~·z·l..n.llJH'l'lftY. 
Sponsored by the t1epa~ent of Econo~lcs and Polley Studies 
with it. 
"Until all the musicians are back, and until the brass bands as a community gather and begin to play funerals on a regular basis, I don't think it's fair to say that New Orleans has regained that cultural territory that was so rich and beautiful." 
A similar jazz funeral for Leslie was held Friday in Atlanta. 

Holocaust Museum faces financial trouble 
leadership from its board. 
"There were peopln who 

MILWAUKEE -The nation­didn't really takn thnir ally acclaimed America's responsibility snriously and Black Holocaust Museum is consequently lnt thn museum struggling financially, due to drift," Stein said. "Now wn are its inability to lind an execu­out raising monny." tive director Board mnm­and lagging bnr Hnubnn attendance, Ilarpoln said officials say. thn lllUSillllll 
Associated Press 
"There were people
The nearly nnnds to raisn
who didn't really take
20-year-old a b o u t museum has their responsibility $300,000 a gone from ynar for its
seriously and 
having a opnrating
consequently let he 
working capi­budget. tal budget of museum drift. Now we The National $1.1 million a Underground
are out raising 
few years ago Hail road 
money. " 
to not having Freedom enough money Center, which to make full Marty Stein has had nearly mortgage pay­300,000 visi­
museum board member 
ments on its tors since building. opening in 
"We're dig-Cincinnati a ging out of the hole," said year ago, looked to Marissa Weaver, the muse­Milwaukee's museum and um's former executive direc­others like it for tips and tor, who recently came back advice before opening, said to the board to help stabilizn Paul Bernish, chief eommuni­the facility. "We're putting cations officer for the Ohio together a whole new board." facility. 
One of her key functions "The significance of that had been grant-writing. museum is that it brings to 
Since her departure, the the forefront issues and histo­museum has been led by a ry related to African­string of interim directors Americans, who are an inte­working on month-to-month gral part of this socinty," contracts. Bernish said. "This country 
"We are now working to re­has the most diverse popula­establish relationships with tion in the world." donors," Weaver said. Funding for black museums 
One of the first of its kind in throughout the country has the country, the museum always been a challenge, said explores the struggles of Lawrence J. Pijeaux Jr., exec­blacks in America from slav­utive director for the ery to the present time. It was Birmingham Civil Hights 
founded in 1988 by James Institute and president and Cameron, who, in 1930, sur­chief executive officer of the vived a lynch mob in his Association of African hometown of Marion, Ind. American Museums. 
Over the years, the museum Often, he said, the difliculty has hosted a number of high­comes with the subject mat­profile ter. exhibits, "They focus including the on tho plight of
"[Fund-rasing] hasn't 
"A Slave Ship African­
Speaks: the resulted in pulling Americans in Wreck of the out ofthe crisis, but this eountry and 
Henrietta the stories we
we have good people 
Marie," which tell are painful," 
brought in who are part ofthe Pijeaux said. "A 75,000 visitors museum now. discussion on in 1999. civil rights and "It was won­slavory may be
Michael Morgan
derful and uncomfortable. museum board member It makes it dilli­
things were really boom-cult for us to ing," said receive financial 
Marty Stein, a philanthropist support from the majority who recently joined the community." board. Board mnmber and 
But in the past two weeks Wisconsin Secretary of the museum has seen just 305 Hevenue Michael Morgan said visitors. their fund raising drive is 
Stein attributes the muse­heading in a positive direc­um's current state to lack of tion. 
"It hasn't resulted in pulling 

us out of the crisis, but we 
have good people who are 
Proprietors 

part of the museum now," he said.
Warren & Linda 

Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett said he's confident the museum can work through its financial problems. The muse­um received $75,000 as part 
of a projeet to turn the arna
?irs/ Or~(jinaf'Azza in 7oaJn/ 
into an entertainment district. 
The money is for a faeelil't of 
the building and its grounds, 
and for marketing. 
Since 1951 

SpcciJiizirrg in ltJii.·m Entrees 
Tues.-Thurs.: 5:00PM -11:00 PM 
VERA f ri. •!>at.: 5:00 PM • 1 :00 AM 
BRADLEY'S 537 North St. louis • South Bend, IN 
New Fall Designs are 
att!Jp~u~u
574-233-24(,4 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, October 10, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

A laughing matter 
PO. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van l-!ocgardcn 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PIIOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebctscb ADVEIHISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kiribara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies o(the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chie£ Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must indude contact information. 
~tions regarding Observer policies should be directed ta Editor in Chief Claire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observe( (USPS 599 2-4000) is pubiOOed Monday through Friday c:xcept during exam ;and vacation periods. Asubscriptil>n to The Observer i5 $100 for one academic pt; S55 for one sc:mester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMA!>TER 024 South Dining Hall Send addrt'$s Correctioru to: Noue Dame. IN 465-56-on9 1'h< Observer Periodical postage: paid ar No1n:: O;unc P.O. llox}79 .md .additiDn.d m~ling offices. 024 Souch Dining Hall 
Now.: Dame, IN 46556--0n9 
The Observer is a member ofthe Associated Pr~. All repmducrion rights .are 
tesct1Md. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Nicole Zook Matt Puglisi Kelly Meehan Ryan Kiefer Peter Ninneman Anna Fricano Viewpoint Scene Sarah Falvey Molly Griffin Graphics Graham Ebetsch 

Since when did America develop a Stalinist's sense of humor? 
A few days ago, a woman was forcibly removed from a Southwest Airlines flight because she refused to take off a T-shirt that showed members of the Bush Administration along­side the phrase "Meet the Fockers" (with a vowel substitution, of course). Now, some might argue that the most significant prob­lem with this case 

Joey

was Southwest's dis­
Falco

crimination against this fashionable 
Forty Ounces to
woman's freedom of 
Falco

expression. After all, if you can't call your president that then the ACLU might eon­tend, what's next? Not being able to call Vice President Cheney a Dick? 
Certainly, I want to maintain my right to publicly degrade my political leaders as much as the next guy, but I have an even bigger issue with this literal instance or the fashion police making an arrest. What has happened to this coun­try's sense of humor if it has reaehed a point where annoyed airline passengers and flight attendants would put up such a fuss over a $5 prank T-shirt? 
Ever since the day a caveman first kicked his friend in the crotch, man (and occasionally even woman) has used laughter to help cope with the difficul­ties and absurdities of human existence. Take the ancient Greeks and Romans, for example. Those poor souls simply could not figure out why life kept hand­ing them lemons, but instead of getting their togas in a bunch, they made lemonade and told stories and jokes about a pantheon of gods who were rapists, murderers, and all-around funny guys. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Modern-day Americans, on the other hand, perhaps still suffering from the same stick-in-the-butt that we inherited from our Puritan ancestors, have coined asinine phrases like "not a laughing matter" and "too soon" to prevent peo­ple from joking their way through life's hardships. The woman on the Southwest Airlines flight, for instance, was only eoping with the hardship of living in an imaginary democracy when a few stuffy individuals had to take that coping mechanism away from her. 
Simply put, Ameriea has become about as funny as a bad ease of the elap. 
For starters, take a look at what we're watching on television. Of the 20 most popular shows this season, according to the latest Nielsen ratings, 14 are dramas that have something to do with crime, crime scenes, crime scene investiga­ti(JOS, law, order, law and order, emer­gency rooms, deserted islands, or, most frightening or all, female presidents. The rest consist of reality shows, Monday Night Football and only two comedies. 
Americans are watching two comedies -one of which isn't even runny and only gets its laughs by catering to the latent sexual longings of repressed sub­urban housewives. No wonder a few air­plane passengers eouldn't handle a little old F-bomb! Their favorite TV shows have them so paranoid over dirty bombs, suicide bombs and car bombs that they simply could not rationalize the possibility of-God forbid -laugh­ing at a bomb. 
What happened to the classic situation comedies that Americans knew they "must see" on TV every Thursday so that their lives never became as humor­less as an issue of the Irish Rover? Sure, being able to watch Seinfeld every week probably would not have helped people cope with losing their children in a war in Iraq or losing their possessions in a hurricane, but it might have at least allowed some Americans to open their eyes to the fact that the little things in life .~re most definitely a "laughing mat­
ter. 
In my experience, the only time it becomes socially acceptable for people to laugh at life's tragedies is when they're drinking-and that's just unac­ceptable. If people are going to make Hurricane Katrina jokes or tsunami jokes or Sept. 11 jokes or Jesus jokes in the middiA of a game of flip cup (we've all heard them), they should make those same jokes while they're sober. Maybe that's why so much of Ameriea, especial­ly its college eampuses, has a drinking problem -the only place where one can find true laughter and humor any­more is hovering upside-down over a keg of Keystone. 
Consequently, from this day forth, I propose a lifting of the ban on laughter in America. Instead of constantly worry­ing about who will take offense to a joke, start wondering how many peo­ple's day you can make by cracking the joke. Instead of the conservative estab­lishment calling upon our moral values to force us to constantly mourn over any and all tragedies, start smiling a little and being thankful that the tragedies were not oven more tragic and destruc­tive. 
As the playwright George Bernard Shaw once said, "Life does not cease to be funny when people die any more than it ceases to be serious when people laugh." 
In our short lives on this world, it can never be "too soon" to laugh. 
Joey Falco is a junior American Studies major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contact­ed at jfalco@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
What are you looking forward to most about USC weekend? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
:1~ b' ., t·
f"u,Jmt al.,etter
ito tbe Editor at 
111 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Life isn't about finding yourself Life is about creating yourself. ' 
George Bernard Shaw playwright 
~ 

. . :.. 
=·:::~

at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday October 1 0, 2005 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Distinguishing labels 
Discussion about homosexuality is often role. Other researchers think that family lwatnd. Even tho language used­dynamics arc the most crucial factor. But wlwthnr in conservative eondem nations at this point, we have no conclusive evi­of tlw "gay lil'ostyln" or liboral celebra­dence, and perhaps different reasons will tions of "gay rights" -is often chosen be more important for different individu­morn for politkal nfTnet than to enhance als. understanding. Ilere at Notre Dame, the oflicial voice 
I doubt I am the first to be eonl'usml by for those with same-sex attractions is the tlw ambiguous message of thosn well­Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian intended "Gay, Fine by Mn" shirts. What Student Needs. Why are the words "gay" dons it rnnan to identify oneself as "gay" and "lesbian" used? For some, "gay" and or "lesbian"? Ooes the word refer to "lesbian" just indicate the fact that one is attradions to onn's own sex? To men and attracted to the same sex. But the words women who experience such attractions? also carry a lot of political baggago ­To 1u:ting on thesn attradions in sexual baggage from which theStanding adivity? We nm~d to lind terms that eom­Committee does not necessarily distance munkate morn dearly than those we cur­itself. For example, on Oct. 11 of this rently usn. year, the Standing Committee will spon­
Virtually all human beings expnriencc sor a National Coming Out Day event. sexual attraction. For most poople, thcso National Coming Out Day is sponsored by atlradions are directed toward the oppo­gay rights groups -groups openly hos­sitl~ sox. Sometimns, they are dirncted tile to the Catholic perspective on human towards tho same sex. Dons experiencing sexuality. sanw-snx attradion nwan you are gay? In the summer of 2004, Notre Dame 
No. Sexual orientation appnars to be Magazine published an article by a same­spread along a continuum. Some are pro­sex attracted Catholic man who had cho­dominantly or exelusively attracted to snn to live a chaste life. On a campus that nwrnbnrs of their own sex, others have supposedly values a "spirit of indusion," sonw attractions to both snxes, while would the National Coming Out Day evnnt most an~ predominantly or exclusively or the CommUnity events for incoming attraetnd to the opposite sox. Moreover, freshmen indude those Notre Dame stu­~~specially during adoles1:ence, many dents who experience same-sex attrac­nxpnriene11 sanw-sex attractions or quHs­tion, but, like the author of the Notrn tion tlwir sexual orientation, only later to Dame Magazine piece, embrace the condude that they are prmlominantly or Catholic vision of human sexuality? In my exdusively hntnrosnxual. experience last year, this possibility was­
Is our sexual orientation set in stone? n't even considered on a serious level. For some, attractions do not seem to I am not seeking to marginalize those r.hange much. Others, however, attest to Notre Dame students who have trouble shifts in attraetions over limn. In l'aet, I accepting Catholic teaching on gay issues, pnrsonally know such peoplo. Hather nor do I object to their having a place at than dogmatkally asserting what dcgroe the table in dialogue on issues regarding of chango is or is not possible, we should homosexuality. But I would like to see a b1~ open to listening to these stories­more open discussion that is less polar­both tho stories of those whose attrac­ized, in language that appreciates some tions have changed, and the stories of of the nuances of the issue: the distinction those who have not. between sexual attraction (which is not 
i\rn p1wplc born gay or is it a choice? chosen) and behavior (which involves Certainly, we do know that sexual orien­choice and should be governed by moral tation is not chosen-although of norms); the variety of experience when it course. all of us can choose how we comes to changing orientation; and the rnspond to sexual attractions. At this fact that not everyone with same-sex point, however, we do not know what attractions wants to identify themselves causns one to have same sex attractions. with labels like "gay" and "lesbian." Identical twin studies that attempted to lind the "gay gone" may have identified a Brad Mattan genetic component or prndisposition, but sophomore the researchers themselves acknowledge Keough that environment also plays an important Oct. 9 
U-WIRE 
For many years, my favorite TV show has been "The Simpsons." I'm sure this is the ease fi>r many. 
i\ller all, it debuted in 19S9 (or 1987 if you count the shorL<> on "The Tracey Ullman Show") so it has been on the air for Josh Morris morn than hall' my Iiii~. Tho things Bart 
The Shorthorn 

Simpson said worn 
l fniversity of

hilarious to mn, since 
Texas­

many of thn words hn 
Arlington

usnd worn taboo whnn I was six years old, and it was a novelty to hear it from a cartoon charactnr. With such limd momories of this gnmt show, it pains me to push for its can­cellation. 
Tlw mighty h<L<> fallon. Watehing the lat­nst sniL<>ons, it makes mo wonder how they endnd up in the stato they aro today. Hatlwr than having episodes with coherent plol'i, it now semns like a mish-mash of plot thmads hammonld into one half-hour. llonwr Simpson, the east and supporting c<L'it of the Springfield rnsidenL'i wore n1wnr portraynd as intnllignnt 1:haraders. 
U-WIRE 

A polenta nominee 
The Washington Post on Tuesday powerful leader. Miers and Bush both reported that after President Bush and have tales of' reinvention themselves, Harriet Miers sealed the deal for her to except in their stories, the crafty chefs become tho 11 Oth justice of the Supreme are .Jnsus Christ and Karl Hovo respoc­Court on Sunday night, the two and tively. Like polenta, many years ago, it Laura Bush sat down would be hard to imagine either of' them 
Barry Pump

for a congratulatory making an appearance at a White I louse dinner of fried dinner. shrimp, polenta and The Daily From the outside, though. Miers-like chocolate mousse. Iowan polenta-gets a bad rap. For those out­And it got me think­University of side "the know," polenta is looked at as ing, and Italians Iowa mere mush, while Miers is looked at as, please forgive my well, mere mush. Supporters in both the ignorance, "What is polenta?" polenta and Miers camps assure us, 
Thanks to the wonder that is diction­however, that, once we get to know their ary.com, I quickly learned that polenta is product, wc'lllike it. But it's a hard sell, "a thick mush made of cornmeal boiled nonetheless, bHcausn in both instances, in water or stock." Outside of bP.ing we're dealing with unknown quantities. shock11d I hadn't immediately ordered In Miers' ease, senators, politkal organi­such an appealing-sounding dish during zations, pundits and the nwdia are one of my many trips to line Italian essentially being told by Bush advisers, eateries around the world, I couldn't "llere, try this! It's good. Trust us." help thinking that it was the p(~rfect Like the awkward dinner-party guest analogy for the entire Miers nomination. shifting in his chair because he doesn't 
First, in northern Italy, where, I have know what his host is talking about, a read, polenta has pride of place over certain aegree or incredulity about the pasta, the dish is considered a staple -taste of-I mean judicial philosophy of' not unlike how similar cornmeal and -Miers is palpable among the stake­cornbread dishes are thought of on this holders in the process. She's born-again, side of the i\tlantic. In the Bush adminis­but what does that mean'? Sixtnen years tration, where I have mad that loyalty ago, she hedged hnr beL<> about gay has pride of place over qualifications, rights on a questionnaire when she was Miers is considered a staple -not unlike running li>r Dallas City Coundl, so what? other search-committee heads who were Polenta's corn, but it's boiled. selected to fill the same job they were See, we just don't know what we're interviewing people for, say, five years getting. Not yet, anyway. ago. The media and the Senate will have 
Second, it should be noted, polenta is a their respective chances to get a good comfort food. It goes perfectly with look, smell, and taste of Miers in the hearty stews, as well as big, elaborate coming weeks. This votting process is a Sunday meals. President Bush, similarly, very good thing. But rmnember. For likes to feel comfortable around people thosH polenta virgins out there, like me, in his inner circle. As pictures released let's kenp an open mind. After all, we by the White House show, Bush feels so might like what's there. i\nd li>r those comfortable with Miers that he'll clear who have previously dined on and brush with her at his ranch in Texas. I enjoyed the polenta. don't rush those of can only assume that in the Lone Star us who haven't yet taken a taste. State communal brush-dearing is the President Bush has called for Miers to outward sign of a bond stronger than be confirmed by Thanksgiving, but he marriage. In other words, Miers is like a should really learn to bf~ a good host and comfort food for the Bush team. let his guests decide when they're ready 
Third, and this may be hard to believe, to try the new dish. because we're talking about boilnd corn here after all, polenta is basically bland This column first appeared in the Oct. and had been considered a food for 7 issue ofThe Daily Iowan, the daily peasants. But thanks to some crafty publication at The University ofIowa. chefs, the dish has been transformed The views expressed in this column are into something upscale enough to be those ofthe author and not necessarily eaten at the home of the world's most those ofThe Obsert,er. 
The show musn't go on 
but these days, they act downright retard­ed. Gone are the dever humor and amus­ing anecdotes. They have long since been replaced and outclassed with the half­hearted, unsuccessful raunchiness of "Family Guy" and "South Park." 
If you think I'm wrong, try quoting a recent episode of "The Simpsons" without falling baek on the familiar "D'oh" expres­silm. The quality of the animation has increased, but not much else has improved. "The Simpsons" was the great­est show ever made up until about 10 years ago, but now it just can't live up to the standard it set. 
"The Simpsons" single-handedly brought animated series into prime time, a trend that has given birth to such great shows as "Family Guy," "Futurama" and "South Park." I thought I might like "King of the IIill" a little more alter I moved to Texas, but I'm still not a big fan of that one. 
"The Simpsons" is undoubtedly a dassie show significant to the television and pop culture of our time. But with the decline of' quality the show has sull'ercd lately, it would seem to me that prolonging the series past its 17th season would ruin its legacy. I would love to see new episodes well into the future, but not when the hor­rible episodes outnumber the passably funny. 
Jerry Seinfcld and Dave Chappelle sadly got it right when they ended their shows while still on top. It disappointed me, and I'm sure several others, when "Seinfeld" and "Chappelle's Show" ended while in their prime, but the integrity of those shows has benn preserved. 
It's too late for "The Simpsons" to be able to go out on top, but it should still go out with some dignity. "The Simpsons" has a large, hardeorc fan base, which is likely why it has stayed afloat on network TV for so long. But with more adult-ori11nted and quality animated programs available now, could it be enough to allow "The Simpsons" to finally exit without creating a hugo void for fans of the show? Would "Simpsons" fans allow the show to go without a huge uproar of mass c-mails and online pntitions, rivaling "Trokkies" in their bid to keep "Star Trek" on the air? This fan would. 
Gone are the classic adventures of the Simpson family. Tho seasons and episodes are not likely to be recapturnd again, except in DVO collections and in syndica­tion. The characters arn mere shadows of' their former selves, switching from humor­ously incompetent to hopelessly stupid, and their onee witty antics have bonn replaced by toilet-bowl humor they just can't quite seem to pull olr. I don't remem­ber wh~m "The Simpsons" stopped draw­ing me to Sunday night TV, but not much compels me to watch now. Maybo it's nos­talgia, i1r maybe I'm waiting for "Family Guy" to come on. I just ean 't watch "Tho Simpsons" anymom knowing what they once wero, what they once meant to me and seeing none of that anymon~. 
Just lot this show go. Good series never die, they just end up in syndication. 
This column first appearl'd in the Oct. 7 issue o.fThe Shorthorn. tlzl' daily publica­tion at The University r~('/(~xas-11.rlington. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Monday, October 10, 2005 
DPAC REVIEW 

'Wings' descends on audiences' senses 


sion as to where she is and what is
By MICHELLE FORDICE 

happening, forgetting even her own 
Scene Writer 

name. Stilson returns to half-remem­
bered parts of her past -times with a 
Under the direction of Mark son whose name she cannot remem­Pilkinton, the Notre Dame Department ber, her mother's death, and most of of Film, Television, and Theatre's pres­all her life as a pilot and "wing-walk­entation of Arthus Kopit's "Wings" is er," one of the men and women who an assault on the visual and audible would perform tricks on the wings of senses that, though often difficult to their bi-planes -in a desperate understand, strongly depicts the feel­attempt to reclaim control over her ings and thoughts of its main charac­reeling mind. ter, Emily Stilson. "Wings" opens with a 
"Wings" allows the audi­very simple set consist­ence to look into the mind ing of no more than a
"Wings" allows the 
of someone suffering recliner, table·, clock and
audience to look
through a stroke and its book. Throughout the aftereffects. After her into the mind of play this simplicity is stroke, the elderly Stilson someone suffering layered upon with light, suffers from aphasia, the sound and multiple sets
through a stroke
partial or total inability to to create a confusing produce and understand and its aftereffects. storm of information speech as a result of brain that beautifully reflects damage. She also suffers Stilson's own state of from confusion over where she is. She mind. Live dialogue is doubled with is bombarded with questions from doc­recordings, multiple sets of actors tors ("What is your name?" "Can a simultaneously depict the same char­stone float on water?" "Can you show acters in different places on stage and me what you do with this object?") the stage is layered with curtains and She is left in a state of utter confu-red and white light. The play is divided 
into four parts, but it is hard to dis­make slow advancements, often losing cern between them. The audience is as much ground as they regain, but denied an intermission, allowing the every once in awhile they take joy in play to continue without break and recapturing the ability to say the envelop the watcher. words that we take for granted, from 
There is often so much going on that "cheap" to "congratulations." the audience has to work to under­"Wings" ends abruptly and some-stand what is happening. what disjointed in its sen­Though this complexity timents, reflecting the would be considered a The audience is play's flirtation with hope negative aspect in most and courage, but ultimate
denied

plays, it only serves to groundings in reality. Mrs.
intermission,
emphasize Stilson's own Stilson flies off into the struggles in "Wings." allowing the play night, not safe but not "Wings" does occasion­scared, and the audience
to continue without 
ally allow the audience a is left still questioning.
break and envelop
release from its depress­Though it depends on ing subject matter. There the the audience constantly are a few humorous paying attention and try­
watcher. 

moments, such as when ing to discern what is upon realizing no one going on, the sensual understands her for the first time assault of "Wings" successfully allows Stilson declares, "I've been put in with the watcher to glimpse into the mind the deaf!" More importantly, some­of someone stuck in a state of confu­times Stilson does remember her past sion and loss, producing within the and often delights in her days of free­audience sympathy and understanding dom in the skies. From the beginning, for the play's protagonist. she claims that though "she doesn't know how," things "could be far Contact Michelle Fordice at worse." Stilson and the other patients mfordice@nd.edu 

The sets used in "Wings" are simple and uncluttered, so a variety or lighting methods are used. The light reflects the inner anguish and confusion of Stilson. 
CLAIRE KELLEY !The Observer Doctors and nurses attempt to help Stilson and other patients who suffer from the loss of language abilities. The patients achieve small but significant gains. 
KELLEY !The Observer 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, October 10, 2005 
page 13 
SHOW REVIEW 
'Wild West Comedy Tour' wildly funny 
Actor Vince Vaughn takes his comedy ensemble on a 30-day tour from Hollywood to the Heartland and makes a stop at Notre Dame 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Scene Editor 
Twnnty minutes af'l.nr the din of thun­derous 'applause and a standing ova­tion had subsidPd, Vince Vaughn PlllnrgPd from bPhind the stagP. The hags under his eyes, made famous in films likP "Old School" and "Wedding <:raslwrs." w1~rn as dnnply etched into his far.n as IWI'r. Fans swarmed around him, ,:lamoring for autographs and photos with tlw star. and hn obligNI as many requPsts as hn could. 
It was tho kind of throng that might havl' gatlwrPd around tho set of his lat­est llollywood blockbuster. Inst1md. the scPJW was Stepan CPnter, 20 minutes aftnr lll11'1'orming in front of a packed house in the latnst stop in his nation­wid n "Vi 11 c~~ Vaugh n · s W i I d West Conwdy Show" tour. 
AccompaniPd hy national touring ~~ o nw d i a 11 s B r Pl. Ern s l. S n bastian Maniscaleo, Ahnwd Ahmed and John Caparulo -all comics from the famed l.os Angeles Comedy Store -Vaughn emeeod an impressive comedy extrava­ganza funlnd by a night of nntnrtain­et after-school special. Vaughn enter­tained the crowd with a few hilarious clips from the special on steroid abuse. 

While the opening acts and skits were impressive, most of the laughter for the night was generated by the four comics. Putting together diverse rou­tines, Ernst, Maniscalco, Ahmed and Caparulo had little trouble keeping the audience engaged. Each comic received a warm introduction from Vaughn before proceeding with a 15 to 20 minute routine. 
"I thought the show was well done and most of the comedians had great material," sophomore Joe Runde said. "Sebastian, the second comedian, was my favorite. He seemed well rehearsed and I liked his material." 
No topic was off limits. as everything from cell phones. iPods. techno music. ethnic stereotypes, airport security and world politics found their way into the comedians' routines. The comics dug into various topics. both commonplace 
;. 

and bizarre, in performances that showed why they wnre hand-piekod by Vaughn to perform in front of sold out shows around the country. 
"!Vaughn! seemed pretty rnlaxed and it seemed like he had good relation­ships with the other comnd ians," Runde said. "They worked well togeth­er." 
While wrapping up the evening's events. Vaughn thanked the erowd for his enthusiastic reeeption, and prom­ised that it wouldn't be the last time in Notre Dame for the now world-famous films tar. 
And just to rile up the erowd one final time, Vaughn eneouragnd a win for the Irish against Southern California -words that would have fit right in to the small football film where Vaughn got his start. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
ing skits. hilarious Wild West Comedy painter in stand-up routines "Wedding
Show
and, in general. Crashers," playing to the Vaughn's last film. whims of a crowd Starring: Vince Vaughn, Bret Ernst, Long and nager for more. John Caparulo, Ahmed Ahmed and O'Donnell also 
Trading off Sebastian Maniscalo joked along with between Vaughn's Venue: Stepan Center Vaughn and ban­prn-planned skits Date: Saturday, October 8 tered back and -and comnwntnd on the Irish's suc­cessful early-season football campaign. 
"Vince Vaughn is very personable." Stankinwi1~z said. "lin was just so com­fortable on stage improving, inviting students on stago and interacting with the audim1ee." 
Throughout tlw night, Vaughn kept bringing special guests on stage to help him act out wnll-rehearsed skits, all actors who he'd worked with on vari­ous projects in his earner. Two of those guests worn Justin Long and Keir O'Donnnll, who played supporting roles in "Dodgeball" and "Wedding Crashors," rnspectively. For his skit with Long, Vaughn encouraged volun­tnnrs from the crowd to come up and test Long's dodgeball skills. Long played the part well, even donnjng a plastk, gold Notre Dame helmet l'or the skit. 
"I really enjoyed all of the unexpect­ml special guests," Stankinwicz said. "I didn't know before hand which celebri­ties were going to be there, so it was all a surprise to me." 
O'Donnell came on stage and drew caricatures on a big easel, a nod 
toward his role as 
a creepy teenage 
and the comedi­ans' stand-up rou­tines, the show breezed along, as Vaughn and the comedians kept the audience laughing for the entirety of the two hour performance. 
"I had such a good time at the show," junior Laura Stankiewicz said. "I love to laugh and all of the people on the tour were so funny. There was no one that didn't please the crowd." 
Walking out in a sharp gray suit, Vaughn broke the ice early by thanking thn erowd for a warm weleome back to the campus where he got his first major film role -on the set of "Hudy" 
forth with dia­
logue from their respective films. much to the delight of the fans. 
"!Vaughn] seemed like a very down to earth guy," Stankiewicz said. "And because he was having an awesome time. it pumped the crowd up even more." 
Vaughn even brought out Peter Billingsley, who played Ralphie Parker. a spunky grade-school kid in "A Christmas Story." Billingsley is current­ly producing "The Break Up," Vaughn's next lilm project, but the pair worked together many years ago in a low budg-


page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, October 10, 2005 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles play with confidence, split two conference matches 
By RYAN KlEFER 
Sports Writer 
A 1-1 record this weekend at the Olivet triangular looked like two wins to Saint Mary's coach Julie Schroeder-Biek. 
The Belies lost a five game classic to Albion 30-22, 28-30, 30-26, 19-30, 15-13 before rebounding to defeat Olivet in four games, 31-29, 30-24, 29-31, 30-12. 
Schroeder-Biek thought her team displayed a lot of heart in both games, showing vast improvement from last Wednesday's loss at the hands of Adrian. 
"We competed very well out there today," Schroeder-Biek said. "Unlike last week, we jumped out to a lead and we kept it, especially in the fourth games of those matches. We didn't dig holes for ourselves." 
Kristen Playko led the offense for the Belles in the Albion match with 19 kills, while setter Amanda David had a match-high 47 assists. 
Despite the loss, Schroeder­Biek thought her team left the match feeling confident. 
"We could have won that match," she said. "It was very close. We were in control in that fourth game, and it was close into the fifth. We had a couple controversial calls in there, as well, but they didn't decide the match. Overall, we played very well, and we know we can win that match." 
The loss was just the second for the Belles in six five-game matches this season. 
The Olivet match marked the beginning of the second half of the conference season for the Belles. Schroeder-Biek has emphasized the importance of the second half, especially her team's need to make adjustments to teams they have already faced. The Belles lost to Olivet at home three-games-to-two earlier this season, but a determined effort by Saint Mary's, especially in the fourth game, made sure this match's outcome would not mirror the frrst. 
Schroeder-Biek thought her team's resilience showed in the Belles' second match of the day. 
"We dido 't play our best [against Olivet], but the girls saw that they could pull it together and get back on track when things are not going well," she said. 
The Belles showed their ability to regroup in the fourth game. The 30-12 score was the largest margin of victory by the Belles in any conference game this sea­son. 
Michelle Turley led the Belles against Olivet with 18 kills. David recorded another solid perform­ance with 46 assists. She also hit at a 50 percent clip and recorded nine kills. 
The Belles record stands at 9­12, 3-6 in the MlAA. Saint Mary's is in sixth place in the conference standings. 

The team returns to the court Tuesday for its final home match of the season against Adrian. The Bulldogs soundly defeated the Belles in three games last week. 
Despite the result, Schroeder­Sick feels good about her team's chances Tuesday and for the remainder of the season. 
"They played nine games Saturday and were tired because they worked so hard," she said. "That's what we have to do in the second half. We need to work harder than we did the first half of the season." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 

MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish win title, break six meet records at Relays 
half a dozen records out of 13 twice -an accomplishment that "It's a good first meet. It's then moving on to New York. 
By JACK THORNTON events, the Irish essentially displays the depth of this year's rather fun and a great experi­This is a very good start com­

Sports Writer 

dropkicked the clock in the face. team. ence for the freshmen, and the pared to us at this time last 
"The number of relay records "The team depth is what we team in general to work out the year." 
The men's swimming team broken is important, because wanted to see," Welsh said. kinks, get in the groove of rac­Senior Chris Barnes pointed to dominated the competition at most of them were ours and "Relay meets measure depth, ing," said junior Tim Kegelmen, the other benefits of the meet, the 41st annu~ Dennis Starks were set very recently, so in and in some cases, we went who set records in the 400 indi­such as checking out the new Relays Friday, breaking six meet terms of comparing ourselves to faster than we've been in one, vidual medley relay and the 400 talent. records and proving this might last year at this time, we're look­but also faster in two, which breaststroke relay. "It's a good opportunity for be one of the fastest Irish squads ing very good," Welsh said. means that we're eight-deep. I Kegelmen, who last year everyone to swim, and it gives us ever. The first record fell in the 400-think team depth might be the became the first Irish swimmer a chance to gauge the freshmen, 
"We performed very well," yard medley relay. Though the most important thing we get out ever to qualify for the NCAA see what they've got," said Irish coach Tim Welsh said. 'The Irish finished second to of this meet." Championships, is aiming to Barnes, whose teams finished things we were looking for, we Oakland's time of 3:26.76, senior The squad is going to need to build on his success this year. first in the 200 freestyle relay saw. We had speed, aggression, Doug Bauman, senior Tyler be both fast and deep with the "My personal goal is to first get and the 500 crescendo relay. technique everything looked Grenda, junior Ted Brown and toughest schedule in school his­back to the NCMs and then to The Irish also broke records in 
00. 

sound." junior Louis Cavadini cashed in tory. "Our first three home meets score at them," he said. "Put the 1,000 freestyle relay and the 
The Irish took first place, win­a time of 3:27.71, still better will be against top 25 teams and Notre Dame on the scoreboard 400 backstroke relay, and swept ning 10 events for 254 points, than Notre Dame's previous that's never happened before," there, that'll be big." both the one-meter relay format outscoring second-place Ball meet record of 3:29.84 from Welsh said. "This is our toughest Welsh had plenty of other posi­and the three-meter synchro­State by 92 points. Oakland 2003. schedule ever, and our second­tives to say about his defending nized diving events. (Michigan) took third with 140 "It takes a while to get used to toughest was last year. But this Big East Champion team. "This was a nice release for all points, followed by Wisconsin­being the frrst meet of the year isn't a pity party; this was done "I thought the overall spirit of the work we've done," Kegelmen Milwaukee (102), Valparaiso but it's nice to get a change of by design. We want it to be the team and energy with which said. "We've been practicing for (78), Cleveland State (70) and pace from practice," said tougher and we're going to rise we raced was very encourag­over a month now, doing a lot of Marquette (38). Bauman, who was also part of to the challenge." ing," Welsh said. "If this were work and now we get to show it 
Before the meet, Welsh insist­the team that broke the 400 For the meantime, though, the theater, this meet is like a dress off." ed the Irish would be focused freestyle relay record. Irish were able to swim in the rehearsal in front of a live audi­more on racing the clock than The Irish then smashed the relatively low-pressure atmos­ence It's like playing in Contact Jack Thornton
000 

their opponents. In taking down 800 freestyle relay record -phere of an exhibition relay. Chicago for three months and jthorn4@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Need an experienced, responsible, HOMES FOR RENT. KRAMER ND HOME GAME WEEKENDS WANTED:ND-USC football tix. TOP part-time babysitter for four-year old PROPERTIES HAS HOMES AVAIL-Very nice 3bdr home, fully fur-$$$PAID. NOTICES boy at professors home. 574-271-ABLE RANGING FROM 3 BDRMS nished,walk to ND. Garage+ 5 off-CALL 574-232-2378 A.M. 574-288­
FoR SALE 

1353 UP TO 10 BDRMS. CLOSE TO ND. street parking, gas grill. Open lease 2726 P.M SPRING BREAKERS Book Early FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL after. 283-0629. Elegant all brick 3bdrm home & and Save Lowest Prices Hottest Babysitter for family in Granger, KRAMER FOR SHOWINGS -WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. garage.Nicely remodeled, gorgeous Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE days &/or nights. Car required. Call OFFICE 234-2436; CELL 315-5032. B & B for all ND home games. ND TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. inside.1 mi to NO. $175,900.283­TRIPS OR CASH FREE Laura 243-4776. alum w/beautiful clean, elegant 0629. MEALS/PARTIES BY 11f7 Highest YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart-home. 4 suites avail. each with pri-FOR SALE: f\JD FOOTBALL TIX. Commission Best Travel Perks ments available for 06-07 school vate bath. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE 1 bdrm condo near ND. All appli­www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800-LOST AND FOUND year. Call today 235-7234. Walk to ND. 574-273-4010. FOR$$: ances. $69,900. Call Kim Kollar 
426-7710 FOUND: Items of value near PE on BLUE &GOLD HOMES. Best rates Tuesday, 10/4. Call Barbara 243-for weekend, monthly &yearly 
WANTED 1747. rentals. 574-250-7653. 
ALL STUDENTS Part Time Work $12.25 base/appt. Flexible sched­ules around classes, Gain exp. in customer sales &service, Conditions apply, all ages 17 & older, Call Today 574-273-3835. 
NOW HIRING Have a car? Need some extra cash? Jimmy John s is hiring drivers for all shifts. 
Contact Chuck at 286-0299. 
LOST ON 9/28 -DIAMOND TEN­NIS BRACELET. REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CALL SHARON 631-5248. 
FoR RENT 
GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH­BORHOODS andersonNDrentals.com Lakeside,MI cottage. Pertect for ND game weekends. 7732182203 Rooms in private home for rent dur­ing ND football weekends or other ND-SMC events. Call 243-0658. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 Bedrooms includes all utilities, local phone, washer/dryer, security sys-tern. $400/student. Office 234-9334, Cell315-2509 ndstudentrentals.com 
HOUSESFOR RENT: 3-5 BED­ROOM HOMES.GOOD CONDI­TION.CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call Sean 532-1895. 
Rent house for USC game. Walk to NO. Call Deb 287-4961. 
2brm turn apt ND &SMC events. 254-1600 
B &B for all ND home games. ND alum w/beautiful clean, elegant home. 4 suites avail. each with pri­vale bath. Walk to ND. 574-273­4010. 
TICKETS 

BUYING &SELLING ND FOOT­BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911. www. victorytickets.com 
WANTED: 4 GAs for USC game. Call 203-261-8717 Jim. 
BUY/SELUfRADE OR SWAP ND FOOTBALL TIX. 289-8048. 
NEED USC &TENN TIX & PARK­lNG PASS. 574-276-8507. 
Alum needs NO-USC tickets. Please call Mike at 607-733-4590 574-280-8160. CENTURY 21 JIM DUNFEE 
PERSONAL 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, esc, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 
NEED USC TIX, CAN ALSO SWAP  USC Countdown 5 days  
LOCAL LODGING, 312-925-8961.  
Remember October 15, 1988  
I need USC tix. Call Nick at 330­ 
207-7434.  Lost: One news cups wifebeater  


Monday, October I0, 200'5 COMPILED FROM THE ()nSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page I '5 
Associated Press Top 25 

/.earn  record  points  
1  usc  5-0  1,618  
2  Texas  5-0  1,565  
3  Virginia Tech  6-0  1,493  
4  Florida State  5-0  1,393  
5  Georgia  5-0  1,389  
6  Alabama  5-0  1,244  
7  Miami  4-1  1,205  
8  Penn State  6-0  1,096  
9  NOTRE DAME  4-1  1,058  
10  LSU  3-1  1,057  
11  Florida  5-1  935  
12  UCLA  5-0  889  
13  Texas Tech  5-0  794  
14  Boston College  5-1  656  
15  Ohio Stale  3-2  641  
16  Michigan State  4-1  581  
17  Tennessee  3-2  538  
18  California  5-1  537  
19  Louisville  4-1  461  
20  Oregon  5-1  456  
21  Auburn  4-1  441  
22  Minnesota  5-1  321  
23  Wisconsin  5-1  251  
24  Colorado  4-1  222  
25  TCU  5-1  181  

ESPN/USA Today poll 
I eaIll record points 
1 usc 5-0 1,544 2 Texas 5-0 1,488 3 Virginia Tech 6-0 1,425 4 Georgia 5-0 1,348 5 Florida Stale 5-0 1,290 6 Miami 4-1 1,187 7 Alabama 5-0 1,156 8 LSU 3-1 1,049 9 NOTRE DAME 4-1 998 10 Penn State 6-0 942 11 Texas Tech 5-0 918 12 UCLA 5-0 862 13 Florida 5-1 840 14 Boston College 5-1 657 15 Ohio State 3-2 572 16 California 5·1 563 17 Michigan State -1 540 18 Tennessee 3-2 473 19 Louisville 4·1 460 20 Auburn 4·1 444 21 Oregon 5-1 311 22 Minnesota 5·1 303 23 Wisconsin 5-1 293 24 Colorado 4-1 184 25 West Virginia 5·1 91 
Big East Women's Soccer Division B 
team record overall. 

1 NOTRE DAME 5-1·0 11-2-0 2 Louisville 4-2·0 94-0 3 Villanova 3-0·3 7-3-4 4 Georgetown 3·2·1 10-3-1 5 Seton Hall 2-3-1 6-4-3 6 Clnclnatti 1~4-1 3·7·3 7 Rutgers 1·5·0 4-8·1 8 DePaul 0-3·3 2-6-4 
around the dial 
NHL Pittsburgh at Buffalo 6 p.m., OLN Vancouver at Detroit 6:30p.m., FOX Sports Detroit 
NFL 
Pittsburgh at San Diego 8 p.m., ABC 
MLB 


Associated Press 

HOUSTON Hoger Clemons and the Houston Astros gave a whole new meaning to the word "longevity." 
The 43-year-old Hocket came out of the bullpen to rescue the Astros and Chris Burke ended the longost postseason game in baseball history with a home run in the 18th inning, lifting Houston over the Atlanta Braves 7­6 Sunday and into tho NL championship series. 
''I'm sure proud of the guys," Clemens said. "It's been a lot of work for us. !low 'bout the kid?" 
Standing next to Clemens, the 25-year-old Burke was beaming. 
''I'm just glad I could do my part," Burke said. "It was draining, mentally draining." 
The Braves took a five­run lead into the eighth, and were poised to send this first-round series back to Atlanta for a decisive Game 5 Monday night. Instead, Lance Berkman hit a grand slam in the eighth and Brad Ausmus tied Game 4 with a two-out homer in the ninth barely beyond Gold Glove center fielder Andruw Jones' out­stretched glove. 
Then, at 6-all, the 
IN BRIEF 

Martin recovers from crash,
gets win at Kansas Speedway 
KANSAS CITY, Kan. -Mark Martin bounced back from a costly crash with a dominating victory Sunday at Kansas Speodway, koeping the voter-· an raeHr's slim championship hopes alive. 
But to get the :~5th victory of his career and stay in tho hunt for tho Nextel Cup, Martin had to hold oil' his toammatos. A lot of thorn. 
Martin and teammate Greg Biffle led Housh Haeing's sweep of the top three spots, and Housh ears took four of the top five. It was the 46-year-old Martin's first since Dover in Juno 2004. 
But the last laugh might belong to Tony Stewart, who finished fourth and extended his Chase lead from four points to 75. It was Stewart's 15th top 1 0-linish in the last 16 races. 
Bill1o, another of the 10 drivers in the 10-race Chaso, passed Stewart forsncond place 30 laps from the end. 
Braves and Astros began the real endurance test that wound up lasting 5 hours, 50 minutes. The previous longest postsea­son game also occurred in Houston -the New York Mets clinched the 1986 NLCS with a 16-inning win at the Astrodome. 
When Burke hit the homer, Clemens was in the dugout tunnel with Craig Biggio, the 39-year-old second baseman who has spent his entire career in Houston. 
"We were like two tired old men walking out of the tunnel, and then we were like two kids having a good time," Clemens said. "We were holding each other up." 
With Clemens pitching three scoreless innings in his first roliof appnaraneo since 1984 -and this tinw atoning for a poor start in Game 2 -the Astros advanced to play the St. Louis Cardinals in the NLCS starting Wednesday night at Busch Stadium. 
"If he comes in a gamo like that, you know it has to bo important to him," Jones said. "lie was going to try not to make any mis­takes, and he didn't. lin pitched groat." 
Clemens gave up one hit and struck out four, setting up the first NLCS rmnatch. 

!n~li~a Pace.r:s ~truggle with 
IDJUnes at trainmg camp 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana Pacers forward Jermaine O'Neal sat out Sunday's praetieo with a right thigh bruise, but said it is not serious and expects to play against New Jersoy in Tuesday's preseason opener. 
O'Neal attended the Pacers' annu­al FanJam at Conseco Fieldhouse, although he didn't participate in the 20-minute scrimmage. Jerf Foster and David Harrison also sat out the scrimmage with nagging injuries. 

"We just thought it would be a good idea to lay off of it today," he said. "It was tho perfect situation for me to rest my leg and get right back at it tomorrow (Monday) at practice." 
Harrison, who missed most of last season with a knee injury, has bonn bothered by a pain near his ribs on the right sidn of his body, and Foster is still recovering from arthroscopic hip surgery. 
Woods beats Daly in playoff 
at American Express 
SAN FBANCISCO (AJ>l -In a phe­nomenal display of power betw1~nn golf's two biggost sluggors, Tignr Woods outlasted .John Daly in the American Express Championship bocauso of a 3-foot putt. 
Woods made up two shots over tho final thrno bolos Sunday to foree a playoff, then won on tho second exira hole whnn Daly thnw-puttnd for bogey from 1!i feet on the 16th, badly pulling his short par putt. 
"I just playHd that second putt straight. and it wnnt lnf't," Daly said. "It wasn't mean to lw." 
It was a somber nnd to a riveting arternoon along tho shorns of Lake Mnrced. where some 20,000 fans crammed along the fairways and cypress trnes wnrn trnatnd to 350­yard drives and drama ran~ly s1wn this sicle of a rm~jor. 
Woods elosed with a :~-under h7 and won the Anwrican Express. 
.----------­
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 10, 2005 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Saint Mary's takes fourth place at Benedictine 
By KEN FOWLER Spoers Writer 
History repeated itself Friday, as the Belles turned in another impressive finish at the Eagle Invitational in Lisle, Ill. 
Becky Feauto led Saint Mary's to a fourth-place finish in the 
25-team  race  hosted  by  
Benedictine University.  
Feauto's time of 20:16  was  

her second best five-kilometer time this season, placing her No. 16 individually in the race, her best finish of the year. 
Junior Sara Otto was second for the Belles, just two spots 
and four seconds behind Feauto. 
The Belles finished fifth in the tournament last year and fourth in 2003. 
"Notoriously, we've done very good there," head coach Jackie Bauters said before the meet. 
Otto said the course 'itself helps the Belles' times there. 
"I just really like the course," she said. "It just seems to go by fast." 
Bauters herself led the Belles in 2003 with a 17th-place finish en route to the team's best fin­ish that year. 
"It was really exciting," Otto said. "The team was really 
ND WoMEN's SoccER 
Team wins a pair of 
ga111es this vveekend 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
It took the Irish 95 minutes to light up the scoreboard for the first time against Rutgers Friday, but Kerri Hanks' 17th goal of the season was enough to lead Notre Dame past Rutgers 1-0 in a thrilling Big East overtime match. 
Five minutes into sudden death, senior standout Katie Thorlakson fed the ball from the left flank to freshman Brittany Bock at the top of the box. Hanks received the one-time pass from Bock and blasted the game-winning shot into the right side of the goal. 
The Irish dominated the game statistically but failed to capitalize on any of their 10 shots on goal during regulation. Notre Dame attempted 14 shots but committed 10 offsides compared to Rutgers' lone penalty. 
Hanks led the Irish offense with three shots (all on goal}, and the Irish defense stood strong, pre­venting Rutgers from mounting any serious offensive onslaughts. 
But the Irish defense made up for the offense. It posted its eighth shutout of the year, yielding only two corner kicks and one shot-on­goal. 
Though the normally high-pow­ered Irish offense was held score­less in regulation, head coach Randy Waldrum was happy with the end result. 
"To get the win Friday night at Rutgers in overtime was a great win," he said. 
His team's offense rebounded two days later against Seton Hall on the campus of the New Jersey Institute of Technology in Newark with a 7-0 drubbing of the Pirates. 
Bock scored two unassisted goals in a five-minute span in the second half and Hanks marked her 18th goa] of the season in Notre Dame's ninth shutout in 14 games. 
The Irish defense held Seton Hall to just three shots -none on goal -and four corner kicks in the game as Lauren Karas com­bined with Erika Bohn for the shutout. It was Bohn's first appearance in a month, as the all­conference goalkeeper has been sidelined with an injury since Notre Dame's trip to the Santa Clara Classic in early September. 
"I hope by this next weekend she'll be back completely," Waldrum said. "We didn't play her Friday but we played her the second half today." 
Hanks opened the scoring and six players scored for the Irish on the afternoon. Lizzie Reed scored in the final two minutes of the first half, and Amanda Cinalli, Susan Pinnick and Maggie Manning netted goals in the sec­ond to put the game away. 
Waldrum noted the dispersion of the scoring Sunday. 
"It was a good overall perform­ance from everybody," he said. "I can't think of somebody, anybody who had a bad day today. 
"Two Big East wins, it was good for us," Waldrum said. "Now· we [just need to] get back home to get ready for Connecticut." 
The Irish host Connecticut Friday at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler1@nd.edu 
Thank you Michelle McCarthy And Pangborn Hall 

For the September Parents Night Out! 
Your favorite University Village kids and their grateful parents 
pleased with how things went." 
Junior Katie White continued her solid running in the meet for a third straight season, fin­ishing third for the Belles in the tournament. White finished fifth for the Belles as a freshman and fourth last season. Her 
20:58 five-kilometer time was her second-best time in the 5K this season, and she finished No. 32 individually. 
Two freshmen rounded out the top-5 for the Belles. Kelly Biedron continued her strong running in her first season, placing No. 37 in the individual field. Her time of 21:20 was five seconds faster than Caitlin Stevenson's 40th-place time. 
"We're getting to midseason, so everyone is pushing them­selves the best they can," Otto said. 
The Belles entered the tour­nament hopeful because of their past strong performances in the race, as well as results from the beginning of this season. Reigning Eagle Invitational champion Northern Illinois fin­ished behind the Belles last week at the Sean Earle Lakefront Invitational. What's more, Bauters reorganized the team's racing groups before the meet to maximize the perform­ance of some of her improving runners. 
"We've been ... trying to re­pack some girls because some of them have made some improvements and need to move up," Bauters said. 
Though Northern Illinois defended its meet crown, Bauters' strategy worked well, as more than half a dozen Belles posted their best place finish of the year Friday. 
The Feauto-Otto tandem have been finished No. 1-2 for the Belles in each of the team's five races this year. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

ND WOMEN'S CREW 
Team controls Head of the Rock 
By TIM KAISER Spores Writer 
On Sunday afternoon, the Notre Dame women's rowing team turned in a dominant display of team depth in the Head of the Rock Regatta in Rockford, Ill. Against opponents including Wisconsin, Minnesota, Purdue and Iowa, the Notre Dame team had three boats finish in the top 10 of the open eight event. 
The team entered only three varsity boats into the event, and Notre Dame's first varsity boat took third place behind WISconsin and Minnesota, with its second varsity boat placing sixth and its third varsity boat placing 1Oth. 
Along with the three varsity boats, Notre Dame also entered two novice boats in the race, which saw 28 boats in total com­pete. The team had been looking forward to the race since the beginning of the season. 
"We have been preparing for the race at Rockford for some time now," said senior rower Sarah Palandech, who sat bow seat in the varsity eight boat that finished third. "We were very excited to get out on the course and race against some competi­tive crews. We rowed well, are happy with our performance, and we are looking forward to com­peting in a few weeks at home." 
Junior Maria Romano, the coxswain on the first varsity boat, agreed that the race was an important step in getting the new 
2005-2006 Law&... 

rowers an opportunity to learn and was useful for the veterans to shake off some rust. 
"I thought this was a good race for us to go out and get some experience," she said. "It was a great day for a race and we were anxious to get out there and see what we could do." 
Sophomore rower Lindsay McQuaid, who manned the four seat of the second varsity eight, was also happy with her team's performance, but looking forward to the season ahead. 
"Overall it was a great day: sunny weather, competitive rac­ing and we placed all three varsi­ty boats in the top 10," she said. 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 

an interdisciplinary colloquium series presents 
Potential and Pitfalls of Social Security Reform Presenter: Teresa Ghilarducci Department of Economics and Policy Studies 
Commentator: Matthew J. Barrett The Law School 
October 12 4:30p.m. Law School classroom 120 
Monday, October I 0, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Riggins leads Irish to victory in home Relays 
and with knowing we were Hopkins, Jessica Stephens and a 4:32.50. 3-rneter and 1-nwter synchro­
By CHRIS KHOREY 
going to do well," Higgins said. Krissy Archer finished third, In the 400-yard butterfly relay, nized contests combined for a 
Sports Wrirrr 
New Irish coach Carrie Nixon almost four seconds behind. the Irish came away with a vic­relay scorH. Irish divnrs Tara wanted to instill a sense of The Irish returned to their tory as Choura, Higgins, Claire llyer and Lucy llirt won the 3­Christa Higgins couldn't wait teamwork and unity in her winning ways in the HOO-yard llutehinson and Wagner eom­rnetor competition, but Ball to get in the pool. squad bef'orn the season began. freestyle relay. Led by Katie binod for a time of 3:56.51. State won overall with a seorn of' 
The freshman swirnmnr was Higgins said she felt Nixon's Carroll, whose leg of' 1:50.89 Thn Irish continued their win­428.15. tlw first in tlw water for Notre efforts had succeeded after the came one second short of the ning streak with a vktory in the Tho Irish will now rnf'ocus f'or Damn, leading oil' an Irish victo­Stark Hcdays. school record, Notre Dame set a 400-yard backstroke relay with tlw dual meet season, which ry in tho 200-yard f'rnnstyln "I thought we had great tcmm moot record with a 7::~2.87. Brand, Barton, Gooch and Kiley begins Oct. 2H against rnlay on thn way to a dominat­pride and Irish pride," Higgins Carroll. Ellen Johnson, Hnbecca Grove posting a time of 3:56.62. California. This chango repre­ing team performance Friday in said. Grove and Ann Barton beat the In the 400-yard breaststroke sents not only an altered mind­tlw I>Pnnis Stark Holays at the Illinois State took third in the old mark by almost 1 0 seconds. relay, Quinn, Steplwns, Choura sot, but also dill'ernnt workouts Holf's Aquatk CnntPr. meet with 154 points, followed The Notre Damn 400-yard and Burke led tho Irish to a vie­in prar.tice. 
Tlw Irish ac:c:umulated 240 by Oakland with 114, Wisconsin­individual medley team also tory with a time of' 4:30.67. "I know right now we're kind points, 40 morn than snc:ond Milwaukee with 94, Valparaiso won. with Jessica StHphnns, Hutchinson and Abby Strang of on an aorobk based program. place Ball StatcL Notrn Dame with 50, Cloveland State with 46 Natalie Burke, Carroll and won the two-swimmer 1000-and after fall brnak we're going won all but. three scored evcmts. and Marquntte with 26. Courtney Choura finishing just yard freestyle relay with a time to do more spedlk, personally 
Tlw nwet c:onsisted entirely of' Higgins and tnammates Haine .41 short of the rnnet record of 10:19.11. related sets," Higgins said. relays, a format designed to Paulson-Andrews, Mnghan with a 4:00.68. Ball State broke the Notre~ "Sprintn r s w iII d i vi d ~~ into easP teams into t.lw snason and Linelli and Katie Guida won the The next race was a 500-yard Dame winning streak with a vic­sprints, middle distance and makP tlw transition to collegn 200 Froe to begin the mont with eresenndo rHiay, with athletes tory in the 200-yard medley long distance the sanw way. I eompdition nasier for young a time of' 1::~H.14. swimming in 50-, 100-, 200-, relay, but the Irish won again in think tho distance we swim will athlc~tc~s like Higgins. The Irish were less successful 100-and 50-yard legs in order. the 400-yard freestyle relay, as be tho same, but the way we 
"It was very exeiting to swim in the next scored raco, the 400-The Irish team made up of' Caroline Johnson, Paulson swim will be difl'enmt." for your collnge coaches f'or the yard medley. Ball State won the Grove, Ellen .Johnson, Caroline Andmws, Kelly Battle and Guida first time, but it was less prns­racn in 3:57.57. The Notre Dame Johnson, Higgins and Katie passed the Cardinals. Contact Chris Khorey at sure with it hning a relay meet learn of Ellen Johnson, Katie Guida broke a meet record with On the diving side, scores from ckhorey@nd.edu 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
No. 10 Notre Dame chalks up wins over Connecticut, St. John's 
By TOM DORWART 
Sports Wri rt•r 
Their streak has rnaehed seven. 
Af't.er wot~kond victories over St. .John's ( 15-(J, 1-3 Big East) and Conrwetkut (9-8, 2-3 Big East), the No. 10 Irish improved to 14-1 overall and 5-0 in the Big East. 
Notre Damn's hitting pereent­age skyrockoted in the Sunday Connndicut rnatd1. The Irish hit .355 as a team en routn to a 30­20, :~o-2:~. 30-23 sweep of the lluskies. 
Sophomore setter Ashley Tarutis led the offense with 42 set assisl<;. Tarutis' counterpart, fel­low sophomore outside hitter/libero Adrianna Stasiuk, netted a double-double with 10 kills and 11 digs. Senior All­American Lauren Brewster added 16 kills. 
The Irish were also strong on defense, allowing only one service ace. Senior outside hitter/libero Meg lloniean received 26 serves perfi~ctly. 
Eventually, the match turned into a good opportunity for coach Dobbie Brown to get the young­sters some playing time. All 13 players on the roster played for only the soeond time this season. 
Saturday, the Irish struggled at first with the Red Storm but ral­lied f(Jr the 28-30, 30-26, 30-28, 30-27 win. Heading into the match with the mysterious Hed Storm, Brown knew little about her opponent. 
"They haven't played a real strong schedule, so they have 
Looking for an Opportunity to Make a Difference? 
CIA's Directorate of Intelligence will be interviewing candidates for Analyst Positions. 
Representatives from CIA's analytical arm, the Directorate of Intelligence, will be interviewing for analyst positions in Chicago during the week of November 14th. Analysts work on the forefront of protecting national security, quickly assessing how rapidly changing international developments will impact US interests at home and abroad. They use information from classified and unclassified sources from around the world to develop and provide the reliable intelligence that is essential for US policymakers to make informed decisions. The Dl Is hiring for the following positions: 
• 
Analytic Methodologist • Economic, Political, Leadership • Psychological/Psychiatric 

• 
Collection Analyst and Military Analysts Analyst 

• 
Counterintelligence • Science, Technology and • Crime and Countemarcodcs Threat Analyst Weapons Analyst Analyst 

• 
Counterterrorism Analyst • Medical Analyst Candidates must have at least a bachelor's degree with a minimum GPA of 3.0. Language skills. previous foreign area residence or travel, and relevant work experience are pluses. Candidates must successfully complete a medical examination, polygraph Interview, and an extensive 


background investigation. All positions require US citizenship and relocation to the Washington, DC area. The CIA is America's premier intelligence agency, and we are committed to building and 
maintaining a work force as diverse as the nation we serve. 
For additional information, and to apply online, please visit www.cia.gov. Successful applicants who have submitted their resume by October 17th will be contacted to attend an information session and arrange a local area interview. 
An equal opportunity employer and a drug-free work force. 

played well against some teams, but it makes it a little~ bit diflieult [to rnadl," she said last week. "We just can't gnt as good of a read on them just because of thn schedule they've played." 
Perhaps that was one reason for the tight match, which fea­tured 27 ties and 13 total lead changes. 
With 55 set assists, Tarutis orchestrated the explosive Notre Dame ofl'ense to 66 kills. 
Brewster led the way again with 17, hitting at a .389 percent­age. Stasiuk matched her career­high with 16 kills. 
Senior Lauren Kelbley and Carolyn Cooper pounded 13 and 11, rospeetively. 
Adding to the already high­powered oflensivo battle, Iloniean served up three aees. The Irish had eight service aces and just seven errors. This season, their aee-to-error ratio of .826 ranks as the soeond best evnr by a Notre Dame team. 
The Irish, along with No. 6 Louisville, are one of' the two unbeatens in Big East play. 
After playing 1 0 of 12 matdws on the road, the Irish will bn horne this week f'or practice before traveling to DePaul this Saturday. Though tho Irish have won seven consecutive matches, the Irish welcome the time this week to improve their game evon morn. 
"We really want to work on bning more eonsistent," Brown said. 
As the Irish have played fairly consistently on the road, she is paticmt and, at the same tinw, exdted to finally play at home. 
"We'll got our ehanee to be home," Brown said, ref't~ning to her team's lack of' reennt home ganws. 
"I don't think it's lbning-on llw road I too big of' a rwgative factor." 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
Chimes 
Saint Mary's College Literary Magazine 
is now accepting Poetry, Fiction and Plays for publication consideration. Please send your work to Corrie Brisson, bris6533@saintmarys.edu, or Meghan Cassidy, cass0593@saintmarys.edu, by November 7th, 2005. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 10, 2005 
HocKEY 

Jackson era begins as Blue defeats Gold 3-2 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

The game may have been labeled an intra-squad scrim­mage, but the physical play and offensive flair produced an atmosphere more akin to a do­or-die battle with a league rival. 
In the annual Blue-Gold game for the Irish hockey team, an evenly-distributed Blue team topped the Gold squad, 3-2, in a hotly-contested affair decided by a shootout. Regulation time ended with a 2-2 tie and the split Irish squads played their way through a scoreless sudden death overtime before reaching the deciding shootout. 
Each side chose five men to head one-on-one down the ice against net minders Dave Brown and Rory Walsh, playing for Blue and Gold, respectively, Sophomore Evan Rankin wasted no time putting his Blue team up after converting on his squad's first opportunity. Rankin deked left then right on Gold's Walsh and slid the puck along the ice towards the right post, past a diving Walsh. 
Blue's Brown then stoned three consecutive Gold attackers with several stellar saves to preserve the lead. That left Blue's Matt Amado to put the shootout out of reach for the Gold team, with a goal on the fourth series. Amado took the puck at center ice and picked his corner on Gold's Walsh, putting the puck low on the left side for the 2-0 shootout victory, giving Blue the 3-2 victo­ry. 

"I thought the energy was good. I thought that we did some things really well," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said of the overall game. "I know it's novice stages for a team that's really going through an entire transition, as far as the style of play. I think that they picked up quite a bit." 
The freshman provided the spark offensively for both teams to start the game. Gold freshman Garrett Regan got his team on the board first with a little over three minutes left in the first of two 25-minute periods. Regan buried the puck on a redirect in front of the net by sophomore Victor Oreshkovich. Senior winger Tim Wallace worked behind the scenes on the goal after digging the puck out of the left-hand corner to feed 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles suffer repeat loss to tough Flying Dutch 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

It was deja vu for the Belles soccer team, but it was not the warm recollection for which they had hoped. 
Saint Mary's dropped a tough loss to late-surging Hope College 2-0 at home Saturday. It was the second time this year the Belles were knocked off by the Flying Dutch with the same score, moving the Belles to 5-4 in MIAA play and 6-6 overall. 
In 2004, the 

Belles upset Hope "We were able to the back­with the reoccur­pass around them breaker in the ring 2-0 margin at 83rd minute.
well, we came out
home en route to a Sophomore season split for the with a lot of Ellie Tresslar year's series with intensity. ,, put the game the Flying Dutch. at 2-0 when The staunch she found the 
Colleen Courtney 
Hope defense net on a ques­proved too tough Belles midfielder tionable goal. 
regulation time, while both defenses smothered the oppo­sition's attack. Hope struggled to sneak eight shots past the resilient Saint Mary's defense and could not convert until the 72nd minute. 
Hope senior Negeen Masghati forced the ball past Belles' goalkeeper Laura Heline off a pass from Erin Dargis to put Hope up 1-0 with a little under 18 minutes left to play. 
The Belles forced their hand but could not come up with the 
equalizer as 
Hope notched 

of a nut for the powerful Saint Mary's offense to crack as the Belles managed only four shots on Flying Dutch keeper Holly Nestle. This was Hope's eighth shutout of the year as it moved to 8-1 in the MIAA, good enough for second place behind undefeated Calvin College. 
Hope has held opponents to slightly under eight shots per game on average and has only given up five goals in 12 regu­lar season games. 
"We were able to pass around them well, we came out with a lot of intensity," jun­ior midfielder Colleen Courtney said. "We were able to break them down. We had shots, but we just couldn't get it in the back of the net." 
The game remained score­less for well over two-thirds of 
Neither 

team knew the ball had crossed the line as they continued to play, only the referee's flag signaled that it was, indeed, a score. 
With the loss, the Belles fall into a tie for third place with Kalamazoo College. Kalamazoo upset the Belles, 1­0, last game, the start of the Belles' current two-game los­ing streak. Both teams cur­rently have 15 points on five wins and no ties, but Kalamazoo has only three loss­es to date. 
"I think it was an extremely well-played game," Courtney said. "We fought well, we gave them good competition. We just came up unlucky in the end." 
Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 
Oreshkovich in front. 
Blue struck back with its own freshman with 30 seconds remaining in the period. Eric Condra roofed a rebound coming off goalie Jordan Pierce on a shot from fellow winger Mark Van Guilder. _ The pair hooked up once again in the second period, only this time the roles were reversed. Condra worked the puck along the boards off of a Gold defender and sent a quick pass to an awaiting Van Guilder high in the slot. Van Guilder ripped a beauty of a one-timer past goaltender Walsh to put Blue up 2-1. 
"We hacl some fun out there," Condra said of playing with Van Guilder. "We read off each other, it just seemed like we clicked." 
Gold tied the game halfway through the second frame on the only power play converted for a goal in the game. Senior Tony Gill one-timed a pass from Christian Hanson into the top right corner of the net, while sit­uated just outside the crease along the right post. The two teams failed to convert for another goal in the remaining twelve minutes nor during the five-minute overtime that ensued. 
Coach Jackson viewed the game from the press box and left the coaching to assistants Paul Pooley, Blue squad, and Jim Montgomery, Gold squad. 
"These guys are so new to me. The only time I've really seen them is on the ice in practice this week," he said. "You see so much more systems stuff. We practiced some this week, and I wanted to see which guys grasped it. and which guys retained it. You also see their hockey intelligence, what deci­sions they make with the puck. You don't always see that at ice­level." 
Both squads played the body with full force; teammates or not, the Irish held nothing back. The physical play led to 15.5 minutes for both teams in the penalty box, a total of 14 individual penalties. This allowed Coach Jackson to take a close look at his team's skill on the penalty kill and power play. Jackson feels that he may consider several freshman for the crucial special teams lineups, an event he didn't consider prior to the game. 
"We were told to go hard, and it was like a real game," Condra said. "We're playing for spots still, so we're going all out, hit, show what we can do." 
The Blue team out-shot Gold 31-22 in the two regulation peri­ods and overtime. Walsh (22 saves) faced a majority of the Blue team's onslaught, while Brown stopped seven shots and made four consecutive shootout saves. Pierce suited up for both squads and made a total of 20 saves. 
Van Guilder was named MVP of the game by Coach Jackson for notching his second period goal and contributing on Condra's tally. 
"This coming week we are going to spend more time on the offensive side of the puck. I was pretty pleased based on working on defense," Jackson said. "I know this team needs to work on scoring goals, but on a positive note we didn't give up an odd­man rush. There was a partial breakaway early in the game, but really there was no odd man rushes other than that. For the most part, I think a lot of things were real positive." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 
h:en0:::MUSIQVE 
CONCERT XXV 

MEDIEVAL CHANT AND POLYPHONY FROM PRAGUE 
SCHOLA MUSICORUM 
9:30P.M. WEDNESDAY. OCTOBER 12. 2005 
' 
REYES ORGAN AND CHORAL HALL MARJE 1'. Df.MRTOI.O CU~TER FOR THE l'fRFORMJNG ARTS 
fRFE AND OPEN TO HIE PUBLIC TICKHS REQl!lRED ,,;_?~,, D E B A R T 0 l 0
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 

llf:"f'ARTM"El'c'T OF .MliSJ.C I'IIONE 57+631-2800 FOR TiCKETS Ji$g Ji!' PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 


-
Monday, October I 0, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish miss opportunities, fall to No.9 Huskies 


Dame took control of the ganw. At halftime, Notre Dame had reeordnd five shots, and UConn had mustered just two. The Irish took eight corner kieks in the first half, while the lluskies only took one. 
FivP. minutns into the seeond 

hall', Notre Dame almost 
evened the scorn. Sophomore 
midlielder Alex Yoshinaga !ired 
a laser from 25 yards away, but 
the shot hit the left post. 
Minutes later, UConn extend­ed its load. Cordeiro eollneted a ball that ricoeheted ofT a UConn attacker and a Notre Dame defender and found the baek of the net. Tho goal, cou­pled with his assist on James' score, brought Cordeiro's sea­son point total to 1:~. 
The Irish responded quiekly, as senior defender Ben Crouse put Notre Dame on the board four minutes after Cordeiro scored. Crouse headed in a pass from junior defender Hyan Miller to cut the UConn lead to 2-1. The assist was Miller's third on the year, tying him with forward Joe Lapira and midf'ielder John Stephens for the tnam lead. 
"I was hoping to get us back on track," Crouse said. "But it just wasn't enough." 
Clark was thrilled for Crouse. The goal was the first of the defender's earner. 
"It was great for Benny, because Benny's been working very hard all season and play­ing very well all year," Clark said. 
Af'tnr Crouse's goal, the Irish -,. continued to pressure the Huskies. Notre Dame eonsis­tently kept the ball on UConn's half of the field for the remain­der of the game and had snvnr­al chances to seorn. 
With 23 minutes remaining, junior midlieldor Nate Norman beat two dofnnders to gp,t a clp,ar shot from just inside the box. Norman's shot sailed just high, though, and the Irish still trailed. 
Notrn Dame's final scoring opportunity camn with just 15 seeonds left in the game. But midfielder Ian Etherington, who had a game-high five shots, also missed high. 
"We had several that were just very close, but you know we didn't linish. We didn't nxn­cutn," Clark said. 
Notre Dame rinishnd thn game with a 15-7 shot advan­tagn. The Irish also took 11 corner kicks in the game com­parmi to just livn for UConn. 
"To be fair, they gave us a lesson in that," Clark said. "It's not how many shots you have. It's not how much you h<tvn tho ball. It's ~hat you do with your chances. 
Notre Damn once again played without one or its three captains, as center back Dale Hnllas sat thn gamn out with an injury. Greg Dalby movnd back from his usual center midfield position to take Hellas' place. 
Notre Dame travels to East Lansing Tuesday !'or an out-of­conference matchup with Michigan State. Clark hopes the team's outstanding play from Saturday will carry over. 
"It was as good a perform­ance as l've had evnr from any team," the 28-ycar coaching veteran said. "Now the test is to get back and get it going again." 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@ nd.edu 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Spons Writer 
Great performances are not always recorded in the win-loss column. 
Notre Dame turned in one of its best games of the season Saturday, but still fell 2-1 to the No. 9 Connecticut lluskies. The Irish dominated play for the majority of the afternoon, but failed to capitalize on numer­ous scoring opportunities. 
"Soccer can be a cruel game," head coach Bobby Clark said. "I thought the team played superbly well -possi­bly as well as we've played all season." 
UConn's Julius James opened the scoring in the 21st minute by recording his second goal or the sp,ason. James headed a Hyan Cordeiro cross past Irish goalkeeper Chris Cahill to put the Huskies up 1-0. 
Following the goal, Notre 

-
page 20 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday,October 10, 2005 
We believe in sandy feet, beach ~ bonfires and lifelong memories. We believe in vacations: 
Have a vacation on us. Learn more in November. 
Your life. You can bring it with you. 
*connectedthinking 

C 2005 Pricewatefhouseeoopers LLP. All nghts rese<ved. "Pricewatamouse<..'copers" refers to PncewatemouseCoopers UP (a Detnware limited liability partnership) Of, as the context requires, otr-memtler flrms of PricewaterhouseCoapoo; International Limited, each of whiCh is a Sll08rata and 1ndeptlfldent $0tity. ·connectedthinking IS a trademark of PricewaterhooStiCoopers LLP (US). Wa are proud to be ill1 Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. · · 
------------------------------------.-~-------~­
Monday, October I 0, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
and third place, respectively. established, but let up and fin­the conelusion of the season. also marks the conclusion of The weekend's tournament ished fourth in the final event Mattia was named tho Most the fall season for the Bellns.
Cha01ps 
reflected exactly what the con­leading to the championships. Valuable Golfer in the MIAA for llnad coach Mark llamilton 

continued from page 24 ference competition has seen And the victory achieved just 2005, and finished the season said tho tnam f'nlt mixnd nnw­
throughout the entire fall sea­what the team has been work­with the lowest scoring avnr­tions on snning tlw snason nnd. tlw day with a :H!i. Albion son. ing toward sinee the beginning age, 80.6, in the conference. "It seemed likn Itho season I 1:ame in third on Saturday, only In two of the three jamborees of the fall. Mattia was also named to the went quickly," llamilton said. orw stroke behind llope and this fall, Saint Mary's has fin­"As a team we really want to All-MIAA First Team for thn "The girls will be rnady for a Olivet dropped to fourth place ished in first place, giving end it on a high note," senior third year. Teammates Nicole little bit of' a brnak ... but with a scorn of' :f!iO. Al'tnr the tlwmselves a sneuro lead in the Megan Mattia said. "We want Bellino, Kirsten Fantom and they'll bn sad to son it nnd." two rounds of golf. Saint rankings. to keep it going for tho fresh­Katie 0' Brion were also Tho Bolles will reeomnwncl' Mary's linislwd thn tournament Olivet made a run in the sec­men." awarded conference honors play in thn spring, although tlw in first place, finishing four ond conference event, beating In addition to the final tnam this year, eaeh earning a plaee 2006 sehnduln is still pending. strokns ahead of Olivet and 13 out the Belles for the f'irst standings, several Saint Mary's on the All-Conference Second strokos ahead of' I lope, which place spot and cutting into the golfers were awarded individ­Team. Contact Anna Fricano at orHind the w1~nkend in second lead that Saint Mary's had ual honors from the MIAA at The conclusion of' MIAA play africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
tained against the Wolvorinos, how USC will play. Ianello bolinvns it's important "We're just trying to dnwlop
Ianello 
for each playnr to know he has eomplnte recnivers," larwllo continued from page 24 a responsibility to givo his best said. "Complnte rnenivnrs 
possible contribution to tho block. Complete rnc.nivors run his knack for snagging touch­team. good routes. Complntn downs. llis eight seoring eateh­"You develop your dnpth rocoivnrs road eovnragns. es lead the team and plaen him from the bottom up ... so Complete roceivnrs makn plays No. 18 nationally in scoring. everybody has got to bn ready down the liPid. We'w trying to 
Samardzija is an example of to go and be plugged in and gnt develop that, and every drill what happens a chanee to get has its own diiTerent aspnct of when Ianello's their opportuni­that part of tlw game." coaching strategy "We're just trying ties and take lanello knows no one will suecoods. advantage or ever beeonw a porl'oet reeeiv1~r.
to develop com­
llis 6-foot-five them," he said. no matter how many drills or
plete receivers. " 
!'ramo and athlet­The Irish have practiens a player goes ic ability honed been suecessful through. from spending Roblanello this season in But that doesn't mean his summers on developing this lnanello and his eolloagups
Irish coach 
the mound as a depth. The squad won't strive for it. pitcher for the has looked f'luid "The eoaehing staff is trying to Irish baseball team have been and explosive so far -espe-. get perfection," lanello sai.d. utilized this season. eially in seoring 49 points "Thorn's a buneh of things 
"You have got to use your against Purdue on Oct. 1. But. when you go through tho game advantages," lanello said. "For No. 1 USC will present the films that nnod to I bP some guys it's quiekness, for Notre Dame receivers with a improved!. And the neat thing some guys it's height, for some huge challenge. about this group of receivers is guys it's both. We just try to Though lanello knows about they see it too. So they know use whatever advantages we the talent and ability or the there's plenty of room for have for eaeh individual." Trojan defense, he still stresses improvement." 
When one of these individu­that the Irish need to take care Irish receiver Matt Shelton cuts upfleld In Notre Dame's 49-28 als is taken away, as MeKnight of themselves each day in Contact Mike Gilloon at victory over Purdue Oct. 1 at Ross-Ade Stadium. was with a knee injury sus-practice and not worry about mgilloon@nd.edu 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Brey excels in his Coaches vs. Cancer efforts 
he coached the Blue Hens. "Certainly, my wife Tish has one of the top eve fundraising know somebody in the family
By PAT LEONARD 
Behind the efforts of Brey and been a big driving force behind sehools in the country as head that's close that this dreaded 
Sports Writer 
his wife, Tish, the University it," Brey said Saturday at the eoaeh in Newark, Del., as well. thing has touched ... 
ranks fifth among universities Notre Dame Basketball Coaehes Since 2002, Brey and his wife I think if you have a position Like Delaware, like Notre and colleges across the country Clinie. "But both at Delaware have raised more than $630,000 where your profile's high and Dame. in money raised for the eve and and at Notre Dame, we've had total for the Miehiana communi­you ean make a difl'erenee, you 
Notre Dame men's basketball the American Cancer Society. two eommunities that have eom­ty's fight against cancer. Brey want to use it to your advan­coach Mike Brey is maintaining Notre Dame earned the rank­pletely embraeed the program. believes it is his responsibility. tage." his level of fundraising excel­ing by raising $216,010 in 2004-The Miehiana eommunity really "The one thing about this dis­Brey was the reeipient of the lenee for the Coaches vs. Caneer 05, a $47,000 jump from the has embraeed it." ease, it's touehed everybody," 2003 CVC Champion Award, 
(CVC) Program that he did when previous year's sum. Brey helped make Delaware Brey said. "If not direetly, you presented annually by the eve 

National Couneil and the National Association of Basketball Coaches. lie has been a national board member of the Council since February 2003. 
"I think oneo we kind of got it rolling, people saw it from tho outside -business leaders, University people -that now we've developed another arm to it every year," Brey said. 
Brey eitod contacts at Martin's supermarkets and at loeal tole­vision station WSBT for eontin­ued support, as well as tho adviee and experience of University Provost Thomas Burish, who is the chairman of the American Cancer Sodnty's national board of directors. 
The !'hilly 6, a collection of area Philadelphia colleges and universitins, loads tho rankings with $(J()!i,ll X raised for 2004­
05. Syracuse is second with 
$414,201.00,  followed  by  
Connecticut ($:~97,745)  and  
Gonzaga ($387.%0).  

Al'tnr Notre Dame, tho nnxt closest univnrsity is Illinois, with $116,774. 
Contact Pat Leonard at 
pleonard@nd.edu 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, October 10, 2005 
Twins 
continued from page 24 
game, the Irish seemed destined to cruise to victory. A tough Bulldog squad answered, though, rallying to earn the break. A hold in the next game tied the match at six. 
The Fresno State team, which ddeated the No. 1 team in the nation (Caroline Basu and Shadisha Robinson of Georgia) in tho semifinals, would win two of the next three games. They had a ehance to serve out the match at 8-7. The Bulldogs had two match points that game, but clutch returns by the Irish thwarted Fresno State's chance at victory. Notre Dame won the game on a net-cord winner to send the match to a decisive tiebreak. 
The tiebreak was a microcosm of the entire match with momen­tum swings throughout. No team held a lead larger than one point until Sainz's errant return gave the Irish the victory. 

The match was the closest dou­bles final in the ITA All-American Championship's history. 
The Thompsons had high expectations this weekend as they entered the tournament ranked No. 2 in the nation in doubles. They finished runner-up in the tournament last year. 
Dasso said an attitude change put the sisters over the top this year. 
"In the past, they would get upset with each other when things weren't going well," she said. "This weekend they were calm. They got fired up for each other and totally supported each other. Last year, they would have let each other get down in a match like that [the title match!, 
but they just rolled with it this year. The attitude difference is like night and day." 
The Irish advanced to the fmal by virtue of three victories over top-seven opponents earlier in the weekend. 
The Thompsons blanked No. 7 Gabrielle Duch and Neyessa Etienne of South Florida 8-0 in the round of 16 before defeating No. 6 Stanford's Alice Barnes and Anne Yesley in the _quarterfinals, 9-7. An 8-1 win over New Mexico's Iva Gersic and Maja Kovacek clinched a birth in the championship round. 
Head coach Jay Louderback did not travel with the sisters to California, but was extremely proud of his star doubles team after hearing the result. 
"We are excited to have the Thompsons come through in the final of a national tournament," Louderback-told und.com follow­ing the match. "They have been so close over the past year. I think this is a big step for them to play so well in such a big tourna­ment. They played really well throughout, defeating several really good teams. This experi­ence should be really big for them in the future." 
Dasso also commented that in addition to the doubles success, she was also proud' of the sisters' singles play at the All-Americans. Christian Thompson knocked ofl' five ranked opponents in the pre­qualifying and qualifying rounds of the singles tournament, while Catrina Thompson fought off cramping to post a 2-1 record in singles. 
"This week showed them that they can compete against anyone in singles and doubles," Dasso said. 
Catrina and Christian Thompson will rejoin their team­mates this week to prepare for a match at home against Southern California Friday afternoon. 
Coach Dasso emphasized that the twins cannot rest on their laurels, especially with a talented Trojan squad on the horizon. 
"We've got a good USC team coming in here this weekend, and we need to get back and focus on them," Dasso said. "Everyone will be after !the Thompsons] now.' Everyone will play their best mateh against them. They need to be focused for every match." 
Dasso said while the sisters need to be prepared for every opponent, they are extremely confident following this week­end's success. 
"They know there's no one they ean't beat," she said. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 

Collins 
continued from page 24 
pushed Falls further out to cre­ate separation between the sharpshooter and his teammates. 
At 54 years old, Collins' coach­ing days are over -for now, anyway. Collins once slipped from broadcasting back into eoaching in 2001, when he took over the then-woeful Washington Wizards to oversee a 40-year old Michael Jordan. 
But on Notre Dame's Joyce Center floor at 10:30 a.m. Saturday, Collins explained his philosophies and roots in the game of basketball, telling sto­ries and running drills to illus­trate his points to the attending area high school coaches. 
Collins came at the request of Notre Dame coach Mike Brey, who pled guilty to taking full advantage of such a respected and thorough basketball mind being available to his team. 
"As important as you like to have high school coaches on your campus and close to your program, I looked at !Saturday] as a day of having Doug plugged into my team and my program and using him as a consultant and eyes," Brey said. 
Brey and Collins have been close friends since their first meeting, when Brey was an assistant at Duke University recruiting Collins' son, Chris. 
Since then, both men have been busy with their respective programs or, in Collins' case, broadcasting roles. But Brey said Collins has always been an accommodating friend and fel­low coach. 

"When I was [the head coach] at Delaware, I needed [Collins] for my banq1-1et, and he was doing a Lakers game in L.A. on a Tuesday; the banquet was on Wednesday," Brey said. "He red­eyed all night to Philly, drove down and did my banquet on one week's notice ... He's a good friend." 
Brey is not the only person in the Irish basketball program who is close friends with the esteemed coach. 
The Quinn family has known Collins since they moved to the Chicago area and Collins' son was playing basketball at Glenbrook North High School, Collins said. Quinn attended Collins' basketball camp and consulted Collins when he moved to Columbus, Ohio. Collins rec­ommended Dublin-Coffman coach Tony Bornhorst, where Quinn would eventually play. 
Collins has coached the Chicago Bulls, the Detroit Pistons and the Wizards during his pro­fessional coaching career. He has worked for CBS, Turner Broadcasting and NBC, and he's now a commentator for TNT. 
As for his hands-on work with Notre Dame's squad Saturday? 
"They're fast learners," Collins said. "Obviously, Chris Quinn and Colin Falls can really shoot the ball. Their big men have a chance to be good on the inside. So this could be a surprising year for Notre Dame. 
"I know they had a big loss with Chris Thomas [leaving], but I think this team may be coming under the radar a little bit to sur­prise some people. They picked things up quickly today, they're competitive and they looked to be in great shape. I think they're ready to start practice next week." 
Following his speech and on­court demonstrations, Collins spoke about issues concerning his career, the NBA and the game of basketball. 
On Collins' path to remain close to the game of basketball 
"I was taught how to play bas­ketball as a young guy, so I have an awareness that when I watch the game, I have the ability to articulate what I'm seeing so that hopefully you can better understand it and enjoy watch­ing it. 
I think all the coaches who worked with me helped me in that area, and then I've worked with some great broadcasters who were play-by-play guys who taught me how to be in TV. 
I've worked with the best there is -Marv Albert, Bob Costas, Gary Bender, Brent Musberger, Bob Neele, Vern Lundquist. I've been a lucky guy." 
On Collins' toughest challenge entering a coaching job 
Afamily concert with Jim Gill is eve-n more playful than his music! 
Sunday October 16th, 2:00 p.m. 
Olaughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College, $5.00 per ticket Tickets available at Olaughlin Box Office (574) 284-4626 

"Washington, easily. Wasn't even close.-Because of the dynamics, where Michael [Jordan] was president of the organization, was part owner, [camel back at the age of 40 to play; knowing he's going to play and then move back into the front office and then with all the young guys we had on the team. ... that was definitely, by far, the toughest job I ever tried to do." 
On coaching Jordan in Chicago 

"[Michael Jordan! would wish he could play two games every day, not just one. I've never seen a more passionate, fundamental­ly sound, competitive, winning athlete ... and he always treated me with the ultimate respect, and that means as much to me as the games he won for me." 
On the NBA's allowing zone defense 

"I don't really think it's had that much eliect. You don't see that much zone. 
You'll see it occasionally [on] endline out-of-bounds plays, sideline out-of-bounds plays or when teams are coming out of timeouts -you'll see a team run a zone so if the other team has called a play, you're trying to run them out of the play. 
But teams are shooting three­point sh9ts so well now, and coaches don't like to give up open shots. You're seeing [the zone's influence] in little bits, but I don't think you're seeing the dramatic effect that you thought it would have. Aetually, scoring was up last year and shooting was up, so I think it's a positive." 
On recent low NBA ratings 

"I think the reason the ratings are down is because there are so many games on television. Other than [TNT's! Thursday night game, which is an exclusive game, with every game that's tel­evised there's probably eight or nine games going on that partic­ular night. And it goes in cycles. But I think the NBA is on a very positive upswing." 
On NBA teams' draft habits 

"It's totally dill'erent [from the past]. Now, if you stay in college three years, they think you can't play anymore. But I went to school for four years, and I still got better when I got in the NBA. 
Now, [a team's philosophy I is 'Let's get them as young as we can.' And if that's the case, unless the player is unique like a_ LeBron James or a Carmelo Anthony, it's going to take him two or three years [to develop]. And usually the first coach who coaches him is going to get fired, developing him so somebody else can coach him. 
Very seldom will you be able to develop a young player and be there long enough for when he's at his prime to even be able to coach him, because you're going to take all the losses." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Memorial Service for Rev. Thomas Gedeon, S .J. 
(Former Director of Retreats International) 
will be held in th.e Chapel of Malloy Hall 
on Thursday, October 13 at 4:30pm 
Rev. Robert Pelton, C.S.C. will be the celebrant 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 


Monday, October I0, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ERIK POWERS & ALEC WHITE
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 

€:\1 E ~'I f;cP'i 5>'rlU."T U f' ? 
I'Vl::_ UC>T AM tPF-:A . L\':>T£-N-L(;':TS TI\\<.E:. ft <.rl.\ KE~ \1'<'1-\Et<.E WE. 
WOULP  '101..1  fOIN(-FOlL<:>'IH  ME  
Ll~t  To  P.l-i':>Wffo:.  TI~IS  ONE: -AI E.A<.I--\ C>'f"t\i>l'<;l  
QUeS·nol'l  (f(.eP;flNq 11.\E ILI.\AS.IC~  
(Hi'  DJ>.'ll  Al?e  <.ot-4MUNtc.p,"t1Nt.l  
-c ~--t e­ ~'>1\.f'fii.ll..  

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Jl~ffil11].
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
DEEXU 

rJ lu
1 

!02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
ffftrJ 
NAKTIE ± 

-
www.Jumble.com 
DIRNEH j 

(Answers tomorrow) Saturday' Jumbles: CHANT MOLDY SOLACE FLAXEN s Answer: What must be learned to become a diamond 
cutter?-MANY "FACETS" 

THE: BAKE:R HIRE:D A HE:L....PE:R BE:C.AUSE: 
HE= HAD A--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above car-

CROSSWORD  
ACROSS  34 Casino  67 One with a dish  
1 The "C" of  supervisor  towel  
U.S.M.C.  38 Cambridge sch.  
6 Opinion tester  41 Stocking's end  DOWN  
10 "That's enough!" 14 France's Joan  42" hooks" (box warning) 44 CPR giver  1 Dot follower 2 Son_ gun 3 Bit of sunshine  
15 Samoa's capital 16 Spy Mala_ 17 City chief 18 Lady's escort 20 Bit of encouragement 22 Bent over 25 Frankie of the Four Seasons  47 Antes 50 "Me, too" 52 Pixies 53 Hoodwink 57 On the way 58 Wrinkled citrus fruits 62 Barbara of "I Dream of Jeannie"  4 Request a hand? 5 Barely gather together, as funds 6 Chinese temple 7 Dentist's request a remover 9 Plaster backing  
26 Stephen King novel 30 Wide shoe width 31 "Farewell" 32 The WB rival 33 Old draft letters  63 Cries of surprise 64 Poor 65 Georgia and Lithuania, once: Abbr. 66 Corduroy feature  10 Queen of_, biblical V.I.P. 11 Mexican dish 12 Soothsayer 13 Little finger 19 Impose, as a tax 21 President pro  
h-l~-:+:;+.::+::+;:+itt-~F.+rli7+.:;+.:-i 23 Kennedy and Turner 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 22 Restful resorts 
~~~~~··~~~nn.~m 24 "Miss
I-; Regrets" 27 Centers of Christmas 
wrapping paper 28 G.l.'s address 29 M.D.'s 
associates 
~~~~~tl~••c:rn.~tt~ 35 Skater Midori 36 Wee one 37 Envelop 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

38 Competition  46 Rag  55 Fed. workplace  
with shot putters and hurdlers 39 As to, in legal  47 colada 48 Infectious fly  watchdog 56 Six-stringed instrument  
memos  49 Kind of  
40 Use a Frisbee 43 Bee or wasp  financing, for short 51 Daybreaks  59 Hula hoop? 60 Suffix with chlor-or suit­ 
44 Catches sight of  54 Plenty, to a  61 Damascus'  
45 Piles  poet  land: Abbr.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ______________________ 
Address ________________________________________ City----------'-----State ____ Zip______ ­
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS I>AY: Zachery Ty Bryan. 24; Steve Burns, 32; Scott Bakula, 5 I: Robert Wuhl, 54 
Happy Birthday: You may think you have a hamlle on everything and everyone in your life, hut think again. Just when you arc ready to pursue your own interests, something will make it diiTicult to move ahead. Plan ti1r the unexpected. Make up your mind that you will follow through--your determination will lead to success. Your numbers arc 13, 17, 26, 32, 3!!, 43 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119J: The world may be your oyster, hut you arc still 
likely to face a few small glitches along the way. Don't he overly conlidcnl or 
you will set yourself up for disappointment. A chance lo do something nice for 
someone else will help you more than you realize. ** 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): A short trip will help you make a decision 
regarding your future. Check out the possibilities of making a move thai will 
enable you to up your income. Real estate dealings will turn out better than 
anticipated. ***** 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Back up and decide what's important and reorgani1.c 
your time. A chance to hook up with someone from your pas! could be exactly 
what you need in your life to make your next move. Shopping will result in good 
buys. *** 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may wanllo work around the house today 
and stay nut of everyone's way. Don't bother complaining--it will only lead lo 
heartache. You will he feeling a lillie sorry ti1r yourself. You may wan! to chc<.:k 
your own motives. *** 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make a very good impression on someone you 
have wanted to get to know better for some time. A neighborhood party or 
community event will lead to an interesting connection. ***** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may think you arc doing all the right things 
but, chances arc when it comes to love, you arc probably not doing enough. Let 
your heart lead the way and put your practical side on hold just for today. ***"* 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may he a little too self-centered today. Consider 
someone who has done a lot for you and return the favor. If you arc truly generous 
with your time and your knowledge, you can turn someone's world around. ** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A thought will lead to a new project. Check out 
what it will require to get things started immediately. The more time wasted, the 
less you will gain in the end. **** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): If you aren't happy with the direction you 
have been pursuing, stop whining and start making choices thai will allow you 
to follow through. A sudden change regarding your love life may appear to he 
bad, but in the end, you will realize your good fortune. *** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will he emotional ahout your life and 
your future. Don't settle for less than what you feel you arc worth. Don't share 
your intentions with others: now is the time to he secret and mysterious about 
your plans. *** 

AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): A problem with authority ligures will develop 
if you don't abide by the rules and regulations. Stick close to home and don't 
even entertain the thought of being around people who tend to overindulge. *** 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You'll be able to make some very interesting 
changes. An emotional mallcr can he resolved, but not without hashing out all 
the problems that havc~cn bothering you. Take a short trip to visit old 
friends. **** 

Birthday Baby: You are cautious, determined and quite unique. You arc open­minded, intelligent and emotional. You strive to do what's right. 
Eugenia's W~b sites: astroadvice.comfor flm, eugenialast.c'tJmfor ctmjitit•fltial c·onsultatic'''·'· 

M'l t.tOt>­'fO\J 'f'-1?. R\UI-n 
AN.P ou~ 
AN!>'l'IER5 (01..1\-D 
I'lLSO ~\"of' efl... 
tO EA'-H 01\-\EIZ.. 
LI~\Et-1 PI-\.OH2><.:( U:.U 'f -THIS 
E.f-'f-f::C"{ 
E.N\t~E:L'f DE.~E«P) 
ON -·o-lE HE:.LLb? 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, October 10, 2005 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Seeing double 
Thompson twins win ITA All-American Championship doubles 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
Catrina and Christian Thompson won the ITA All­American Championships dou­bles title Sunday in Pacific Palisades, Ca., making history by becoming the first Notre Dame women's tennis players to cap­ture a collegiate tennis grand slam tournament. 
The twin sisters won the title match 9-8 (9-7) over Fresno State's Luica Sainz and Kathrina Winterhalter after fighting off two match points. Sainz's return of a Catrina Thompson serve at 8-7 in the tiebreaker sailed long to give the Irish the champi­onship. 
'There were no free points out there," assistant coach Michelle Dasso said. "The girls really earned it. Both teams had chances with match points. It was defrnitely nerve-racking." 
The title match was a back and forth affair. The Irish jumped out to a 2-0 lead, but Fresno State was able to hold. its serve and break the Irish to tie the match at two games all. The score was tied 4-4 before a hold and a cru­cial Irish break gave Notre Dame a 6-4lead. 

With Christian Thompson serv­ing up 30-0 in the following ERIN VRANISHffhe Observer 
Catrina Thompson returns the ball against William and Mary in a 4-3 Irish victory April 9. see TWINS/page 22 Thompson paired with sister Christian to claim first place in doubles this weekend. 

SMC GOLF 

Belles win their 4th straight title 
By ANNA FRICANO 
Sports Writer 

A new piece of history was made for Saint Mary's this weekend when the golf team traveled to the MIAA Championship and brought home its fourth conference title in four years. 
The two-day, 36-hole tourna­ment was the last leg of the race for the 2005 MIAA title, which is determined by total team score after four confer­ence events. 
After three jamborees, the Belles went into this week­end's tournament already with a 22-stroke lead in the stand­ings. On Friday, their lead was cut down somewhat by rival Olivet College, which finished 10 strokes under the Belles after the first round of play. Saint Mary's finished on Friday with a team score of 352. In third place was Hope College, four strokes behind the Belles. 
But on Saturday, Saint Mary's was able to significant­ly lower its team score, and finished the second round with a 336. Hope College was the runner-up on the second day of the tournament, finishing 
see CHAMPS/page 21 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Collecting Collins' wisdom 

AP Former Washington Wizards head coach Doug Collins talks with former NBA superstar Michael Jordan during a game in 2003. 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
One of Doug Collins' first drills at the Notre Dame Basketball Coaches Clinic on Saturday began with an entry pass to the 
wing. 
When Notre Dame guard See Also Colin Falls 
"Brey excels in

caught Chris Quinn's pass his Coaches vs. 
with his feet 
Cancer efforts" 

on the 3-point 
page 21

line, the coach in Collins showed itself -or at least proved it will never go away entirely. 
"Colin, they'll guard you in the parking lot," Collins said, and he 
. see COLLINS/page 22 
FOOTBALL 

Ianello, Irish receivers bearing fruits of labor 
recruiting coordinator said. "I
Coach strives to help 
told them all when we started 
wideouts excel under spring practice I was coach­
ing them all like they were
Weis' complex offense freshmen. Because in this 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Sports Editor 

Notre Dame entered the season with one of its deepest receiving groups in quite some time, as Rhema McKnight, Maurice Stovall, Matt Shelton and Jeff Samardzija all had talent and experience. 
But that didn't matter to Rob lanello. 
"We just started from ground zero," the first-year Irish receivers coach and offense and [with] their expe­riences with our staff, they were freshmen." 
These "freshmen" have come along pretty fast. 
Despite the loss of Rhema McKnight during the 17-10 Notre Dame win over Michigan Sept. 10, the Irish receivers have made huge strides this season. 
Stovall, Samardzija and Shelton are each averaging more than 11 yards per reception. Samardzjija has drawn national attention with 
see IANELLO/page 21 
ME~'S SOCCER 
iiOCKEY 

SMC SOCCER 
~D WOME~~s SOCCER
~[) VOl.LEYflfUJ. 
SMC XC 
LLI 

The Belles run to a
Connecticut 2 

Blue 3 
Flying Dutch 2 
Notre Dame 3 
Notre Dame 1 
fourth place finish out 
"' z Notre Dame 1 

Gold 2 
Belles 0 
UConn 0 
Rutgers 0 

of 25 competing teams
.., 
::5 The Irish play their 
The Blue squad edges 
Hope College nets a 
The Irish hit .355 as a 
Kerri Hanks provided 
at host Benedictine
best game of the year, 

the Gold team in a 
pair of late goals to 
team in routing the 
the game-winner in the
c::s 
University.
but still fall to the No. 9 

shootout to win the 
defeat Saint Mary's. 
Huskies. 
95th minute, downing
c:::c 
Huskies. 

annual Blue-Gold game. 
the host Scarlet Knights. 
!; 
page 19 
page 18 
page 18 
page 17 

page 16 
page 16 
< 



