
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 71 MONDAY, JANUARY 17,2005 

Keough freshman dies of heart trouble 
Dan Kish suffers surgery complications; friends remember him for his kindness and laugh 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Ediwr 
A Notrn Damn l'rnshman who rnenivnd a !wart transplant while in high school died Friday from complications during surgery in Indianapolis. 
Dan Kish, IIJ, a graduate of I'Pnn lligh School in Mishawaka, expnrinnend partial heart lililurn during winter brnak and spent limn in tlw hospital. said l'rnsh­man Matt Elliott, one of Kish's close friends from his dorm, 
Keough. Kish traveled to an 
Indianapolis hospital Friday for surgnry to implant a pacemaker, which would regulate his heartbeat, Elliott said. 
In an e-mail 


to frinnds Kish bnlilrn the sur­gnry, Kish did not indicate thn proendure could be Jili.J-threaten­ing, Elliott said. 
''I'm sure there was a risk involved, but from the e-mail I'm sure he was fully expecting to come back," Elliott said. "IIe said barring unl(weseen cireumst.ances lhel should be baek Saturday ... this was just a shock." 
Kish stopped by Keough earlier last week, on Jan. 11, to visit his friends and to inform them he was withdrawing from Notre Dame for the semester, Elliott said. 
"IIe told me he was debating coming baek," Elliot said. ''I'm sure he didn't want something like what happened ov1w broak to happen at school." 
Kish needed another heart transplant befi>re he could return to a normal school routine, Elliott said. Last semester. he added, Kish was constantly carrying a cell phone that would ring when a new heart became available. 
"As soon as he !would havn received] a call, he'd !have bonn I in a car going to Indy right then," Elliott said, adding that his friend had to stay within a three-hour 
see KISH/pagc 4 

SMC welcomes Mooney in style 
By ANGELA SAOUD S.tim Mary\ Editor 
/\s Carol Moonny processnd into ()'Laughlin auditorium Saturday following a proces­sion of tho snnior elass and l'al'ulty, slw had a famil­iar smiiP on See Also lwr !'ace-a 
"Educating

smile that 
Women,

said she was honw. Transforming Moonny 
Lives 

was inaugu­ratnd as tho Symposium" I lth and 
page3

first lay graduatn prnsidnnt in an afternoon ~~ n r n 111 o n y i n c lu di n g gr e n t­ings l'rom Cong)'(~ssman Chris Chocola. Notr1~ Dame provost Nathan llatch and Exn!'utivn Dirnctor ol' thn Womnn's Collngn Coalition Susan E. l.muwn. 
Vic1~ l'rnsidPnt and Dnan ol' Jo'aculty l'alril'k White wnl­conwd studnnts. faculty. stal'l' and gunsts by speaking about thn l'oundnrs of thn Collngn and tlwir dreams for 
sec MOONEY/page 4 

Ceremony, traditions and speeches usher in President Carol Mooney at Saturday's 
inaLL~llratilJn.
•

PHOTOS BY KELLY HIGGINS 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Jeep flips on Juniper, Douglas 
Students involved but not badly hurt 
By TERESA FRALISH Associate News Editor 
A one-car accidnnt involving two Notrn Damn juniors, onn who police said was driving undnr tlw inlhwnen, oecurrnd at tho intnrsnetion of Douglas Hoad and .lunipnr !load around 4 a.m. Sunday. 
According to Captain .lohn Cruszynski of tlw St. .losnph County l'olie1~. 20­ynar old Notre Damn junior llnlios MaeNaught, tho d r i v~~ r oI' t h ~~ r n d J n n p Clwrok1w, and his passnn­gnr. anothnr n.Jale Notre Damn junior whose nanw and agn wnrn not n~lnasnd, l'lippnd the vnhieln al'tnr hilling tho rm~dian strip in the middle of Douglas. Nnitlwr student was seri­ously injured, (;ruszynski said. 
The Obsnrvnr was unable to eontad MaeNaught. 
Tho passenger was intnr­viewed at tho sennn by policn and picknd up by friends shortly al'tor with no significant injuries, Cruszynski said. lin added police did not administnr a blood alcohol eontnnt tnst bncausn the passnngnr did not appnar intoxicated. 
Aeeording to Cruszynski, MaeNaught was l1~gally intoxicated, with a blood alcohol content bnl.wnnn 
0.15 and 0.2. In tho statn of Indiana. the lngal blood aleohol limit for drivnrs over 21 ynars of age is .OX. 
Cruszynski addnd that Ma1~Naught also probably nxenndnd the 30-miln pnr 
see ACCIDENT/page 4 


Student leaders use foru111s to shape report 
By AMANDA MICHAELS A<sistanr News Editor 
In an eiTort t.o make thnir upcoming Board of Trustnns rnport as infornwd by student opinion <L<; possibln, student body pn~si1llmt Adam Istvan, studnnl. body vkn prnsidPnt Karla Bdl and chilli' ~~xneutiv1~ assistant Davn Baron organiznd threP forums to addrnss thn campus' hot-button divnrsity issuns. 
ThP trio nxaminnd tho faenl-; of raeism at Notrn Dame with 35 studnnl-; from a varinty of dasses, nthnieitins and orientations Sunday night in the lirst of these inliwmal discussions. The suqj1~el-; of hntorosexisrn and snxism will be nxplored during tonight and Tunsday's snssions, respectively. 
Participants wnrn split up into tlm~n smallnr groups, naeh explor­ing a sot. of prndntnrminnd ques­tions that indudnd. "/\t what point was the first time at Notm Damn you notiend raee mattnmd'?' and "Do you lind the administration to bn wnkoming and willing to follow through with initiatives embracing 
see FORUM/page 9 

Campus events celebrate activist 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Wrirer 
Although both Notrn Dame and Saint Mary's will continue 
to hold classes on Martin Lutlwr King, Jr. Day, each campus is spcmsoring a number of events to com mom o­


rate this King national holiday. "I think it's a good idea to havn nvonts commemorating [this dayl," Brian Cardile, a 
Notre Dame junior, said. "I think it's okay to have dasses, especially since somn of my profnssors are showing movies about Martin Luther King." 
Not all students share this view. 
"Tho importance of these events is undermined by t.he faet that we have elass, whilll other schools do not." Notrn Damll sophonwrll Kendra Morlok said. "Those llvents arn important, but more students would attend thnm il' we did not have class." 
At Notre Damn, the Center for Social Concerns is working with the Martin Luther King, Jr. Foundation of St. Joseph County and tho Center for 
Pnacn and Nonviolnnen of St. Joseph County to cosponsor tho visit of civil rights stratn­gist Diann Nash. 
Tho first event l'naturing Nash is an II :30 a.m. mar!'h from thn County City Building, loeatnd at 227 Wnst .JniTerson Boulevard in South Bond. Prior to the mareh. Nash will give a brinl' spm~ch nntitlnd. "Why March'?" 
The rwxt nvnn t fcHttu ring Nash. a Martin l.ut.hnr King Day workshop and lnclure, will takn plaen from I ::~0 to 
3:30 p.m. at tho Collngn Football llall of Fanw. The subjeei of this loeturn is 
see KING/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Kudos to Culkin 
After seeing him in all his glory in the recent movie "Saved," I feel com­pelled to offer some thoughts on one of the greatest and most under appreciated actors of our time: Macaulay Culkin. 
Eileen Duffy
Sure, he's done some crazy things in his life, includ­Assistant ing getting mar­
News Editor 
ried at the ripe old age of 17. I believe, however, that his-acting has greatly affected our generation, specifically in his masterpiece, "Home Alone." 
I am willing to bet that 90 percent of this campus has seen the film "Home Alone," and with good rea­son. Just 10-years-old when the movie came out in 1990, Culkin art­fully captures the excitement of eight-year-old Kevin McAllister's newfound independence as well as the childlike fear of being alone. 
Culkin is remarkably articulate for his age in "Home Alone." He asks the tongue-twisting question, "Excuse me, is this toothbrush approved by the American Dental Association?" with perfect grace. Ilis verbose post­shower monologue -ending in the familiar "Home Alone" scream­suggests he could be ready for Shakespeare... 
"I took a shower washing every body part with actual soap; including all my major crevices; including in between my toes and in my belly but­ton whieh I never did before but sort of enjoyed," says Kevin to his reflec­tion in the mirror. "I washed my hair with adult formula shampoo and used cream rinse for that just­washed shine. I can't seem to lind my toothbrush, so I'll pick one up when I go out today. Other than that, I'm in good shape." 
As a youngest child myself, Culkin speaks to my heart when he, as Kevin, tackles his brother Buzz for eating all the plain cheese pizza. Just a few minutes later, when forced to go up to the third Door, Culkin beau­tifully alternates between the remorseful Kevin and the angry one who daringly wishes for his family to disappear. Much later in the film, Kevin opens a door to find himself face-to-face with his enemies, Harry and Marv -Culkin's look of shock is truly Oscar-worthy. 
Yes, as Kevin, Culkin often conveys a great deal with few, or even no words at all. When he first discovers he is home alone, Kevin sits· at the kitchen eounter for a good think ­Culkin's face moves from puzzlement to devilish elation as he announces, "I made my family disappear." One afternoon, Kevin's grocery bags break as he is walking home from the store; his subsequent sigh is heart-wrenching. Finally, upon his mother's Christmas morning arrival, Culkin's ear-to-ear grin has moved me to tears. 
So take another look at "Home Alone" when you get a chance. I know it's not fun to wateh Marv step on those glass ornaments or smash the tarantula on Harry's face, but do it for Macaulay-he's a gem. 
Kevin, thanks to Macaulay, you are not a disease. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highest standards ofjournal­ism ar all rimes. We do, howeyer, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conracr us ar 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, January 17, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU MISS ABOUT SCHOOL OVER BREAK? 

Pamela Jetson Jeff Schaal Jenny Keegan Patrick Jensen Bill Coffey Lauren Centioli 
junior junior junior senior senior sophomore Walsh Morrissey Lewis off-campus off-campus Dillon 
"Hanging out ''The great "Late nights in ''The snow.'' "Thirteen-foot "Four a.m. 







Tv.

s. , meals at Reekers." 
IN BRIEF 
A Town Hall meeting called "And Still We Rise Remembering is Not Enough," will be held on Tuesday from 7 to 8 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Center. The even is part of the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday Celebration. 
The Center for Social Concerns is holding a Social Concerns Festival Wednesday from 7 to 9 p.m. in Center for Social Coneerns classroom. The festival is an evnnt similar to Activities Night, where local agencies from around the community will come and try to get Notre Dame students involved in service. 
Wednesday is the last day to make class changes. 
Welsh Family will present the Welsh Family Dance Show from 7:30 to 9 p.m. Friday and Saturday in Welsh Family Hall. 
Siegfried Hall will hold a Dance-a-Thon Friday night from 9 p.m. to midnight in Stepan Center. 
The Late Night Olympics returns to the JACC for its 19th year on Saturday. Sponsored by HeeSports, the event will run from 6 p.m. to 4 a.m., and features dorm teams from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's competing in an all-nighter of sports, fun and fundraising. Profits will ben­efit the St. Joseph County Special Olympics. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH 26 HIGH 28 LOW 21 LOW 23 
with my dining hall Fitzpatrick." friends." food." 

RICHARD FRIEDMAN/The Observer Members of the Duffy Fan Club, dedicated to the Irish women's basketball point guard Megan Duffy. The students shower their support with amended "I (love) Ty" T-shirts and jigs and cheers from the stands. 
OFFBEAT 

Construction worker 
discovers nail in his 'skull 
LITTLETON, Colo. -A 
dentist found the source 
of the toothache Patrick 
Lawler was complaining 
about on the roof of his 
mouth: a four-inch nail 
the construction worker 
had unknowingly embed­
ded in his skull six days 
earlier. 

A nail gun backfired on 
Lawler, 23, on Jan. 6 
while working in 
Breckenridge, a ski resort 
town in the central 
Colorado mountains. The 
tool sent a nail into a 
piece of wood nearby, but 
Lawler didn't realize a 
second nail had shot through his mouth, said his sister, Lisa Metcalse. 
Following the accident, Lawler had what he thought was a minor toothache and blurry vision. On Wednesday, after painkillers and ice didn't ease the pain, he went to a dental office where his wife, Katerina, works. 
"We all are friends, so I thought the [dentists] were joking ... then the doctor came out and said 'There's really a nail,'" Katerina Lawler said. "Patrick just broke down. I mean, he had been eat­ing ice eream to help the swelling." 

lie was taken to a sub­urban Denver hospital, where he underwent a four-hour surgery. The nail had plunged 1 1/2 inehes into his brain, barely missing his right eye, Metcalse said. 
"This is the second one we've seen in this hospital where the person was injured by the nail gun and didn't actually realize the nail had been imbed­ded in their skull," neuro­surgeon Sean Markey told KUSA-TV in Denver. "But it's a pretty rare injury." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a:: 
:::1: 
"' 
3: ~ "' 
..... 
cs: 
(,) 


0 

..... HIGH 17 HIGH 13 HIGH 21 HIGH 23 
LOW 12 LOW 12 LOW 15 LOW 8 
Atlanta 48 I 31 Boston 33 I 23 Chicago 12 I 2 Denver 28 I 12 Houston 54 I 34 Los Angeles 71 I 51 Minneapolis 01-14 New York 34 I 24 Philadelphia 35 I 22 Phoenix 72 I 49 Seattle 38 I 33 St. Louis 26 I 8 Tampa 58 I 52 Washington 36 123 
------~­

Monday, January 17, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
EDUCATING WOMEN, TRANSFORMING liVES SYMPOSIUM 
Above, m!'l.uly-inaugurated Saint Mary's president, Carol Mooney, hft, listens as student body president Sarah Critherine White spcaks at Sunday's synzpo­silun. At right, the depart­ments at Saint Mary's came together to surprise Mooney with a symbolic welcoming quilt.
•
PHOTOS BY KELLY HIGGINS 

Arts and Letters dean publishes nevv book 
Special to the Observer 
A nnw book by historian Dorothy 0. Pratt, assistant dean in tho College of Arts and Letters at the University of Notre Damn, pn~sonts the his­tory of an Amish community in nortlwrn Indiana and its sur­vival as a cultural and nthnie entity over thn past century. 
Published by Quarry Books, "Shipshewana: An Indiana Amish Community" tolls tho story of a community estab­lished in 1841 as a "distriet" of the Elkhart-LaGrange Amish settlement that is tho third largest settlement of Old Order Amish in the world. 
After spending more than a decade interviewing members of tho Shipshewana Amish community, Pratt tolls of how they have resisted Americanization and techno­logical change by remaining "a people apart." In a review of the book. Publisher's Weekly calls it a "worthy ease study of resistance to chango." 
In 19th-eentury Amnriea, tho dialect of German spoken by the Amish, a dialoet dif'licult for outsiders to understand, aided the boundary separation between the Amish and thPir neighbors. Over tho years. the Amish developed a stable farming economy and a unique social structure. Pratt details how they protected their boundaries during tlw crisis ynars ol' I<J 17 through 1945 in ways that would not conl'lict with thPir basic rPii­gious principlns. TIH• book desr.rilws how tlw Amish. as r.onscinntious objPdors, hon• tlw traumas ol' World War I. struggled against tlw Compulsory School Ar.t ol' 1921. copnd with Nnw l>nal bui'IHILH~ral~y. and lahornd in Alternative SPrvice in World War II. 
"Shipshewana: An Indiana Amish Community" tnlls ol' tlw community's postwar ynars ol' continuing d if'f'ieul tins with federal and state regulations and ehallnngos to tho consci­entious obj1~etor status of tlw Amish. Pratt doscrib1~s tlw ITI~­ation of the Amish Steering Committee for thn purposo of prnsenting a united front to such challnngns, but slw notns that tho eommil.tnn's ~~!Teet has be1m limited. Continuing crisis and abuse l'rom tlw outsidP world hav1~ torHind only to con­f'irm the Amish community's dnsire to remain "a pnoplo apart" l'rom the modnrn world. 
Many tourists, mostly from the Midwost, visit Shipshewana each year to nxperienen its auctions and flea markets, scennry. and Amish rnsidnnts. A l'eaturP story highlighting thn attrac­tions of Shipslwwana appeared on tlw l'ront. pagn ol' the travel snction of Tlw Nnw York Timns this past StllltmPr. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Social Concerns Festival 

Learn How Local Service & Social Action Can Make An Indelible Mark On Your Life 
Wednesday at the January 19, 7~9 p.m Center for Social Concerns 
~------~ 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 17, 2005 



Mooney 
continued from page 1 
the future of it. 
"This is a day to celebrate where we have come from, and where we might be going," White said. 
Student body president Sarah Catherine White told Mooney she was P.xcited for this time of change. 
"We are so glad your life experience has brought you back to the strong commit­ment of excellence and serv­ice at Saint Mary's," White said. "It is a time of transfor­mation and courage for this College." 
Chair of the Parents Council and 1975 graduate Catherine Hammel Frishkorn 
gave  Mooney  a  powerful  
challenge.  
"Our daughters  come  here  

as children and leave as adults," Frishkorn said. "We challenge you to build on the foundation we've given them [our chil­

dren] and lead "This is a day to tion, and many them into the celebrate where we were happy to 
future." be a part of the
have come from 
And while day. most of the and where we Senior Becky 
greetings held might be going." Davies said she 
messages of was impressed hope and with the large
Patrick White 
encouragement turnout. 
for Mooney, a vice president and "It was nice to few used humor dean of faculty see all of the 
in their saluta­tions. 
Chair of the faculty assembly Don Miller spoke of' Mooney's days as a student at Saint Mary's. 
''I'm one of the few who can truly welcome you back -I led the procession when you graduated in 1972," Miller quipped. "While you were out conquering the world, a few of us have kept the institution running." 

Chair of the Board of Trustees, 1974 graduate Deborah Johnson Schw­iebert, inaugurated Mooney and gave her the symbol of the office of the president, a gold French cross necklace, before Mooney herself spoke to the audience. 
Mooney glowed as she spoke of the history of the College and her namesake. 
"This is a college dedicated 



Accident 
continued from page 1 
hour speed limit while driv­ing on Juniper -another fac­tor that likely caused the acci­dent. 
After police completed the BAC test, MacNaught was treated for minor scrapes and abrasions at St. Joseph Medical Center around 5 a.m. and then transported to the St. Joseph County Jail at about 
6:30 a.m., Gruszynski said. 
The student was booked at the jail l'or DUI charges and released on $500 bond at 4:20 
p.m. Sunday, St. Joseph County Jail Deputy Sean Paterna said. 
Gruszynski said the car, heavily damaged on the top and front. not drivable and towed !'rom the scene, landed just west of the Douglas medi­an. Police did not impound the car for investigation. 
The students were headed south on Juniper and possibly intended to turn right at the stoplight, said Gruszynski. lie said the passenger told him to a woman and-named for her, and I believe there is significance in her name," Mooney said. "We think of Mary as a loving mother, and 

of her soft qualities,  but  
Mary  was  also  full  of  
strength and courage."  

Mooney shared a story about a day she spent with 30 middle school aged girls this past fall, discussing per­ceptions of the words 'mas­culine' and 'feminine'. 
"What are little boys made of," she asked, repeating the nursery rhyme. "Snakes and snails and puppy dog tails. But what are little girls made of? Sugar and spice and everything nice. Mary was made of stronger stuff than sugar and spice and so are the women of Saint Mary's." 
After music from the Saint Mary's women's choir and a final blessing, the proces­sional exited to a reception held in the Noble Family Dining Hall. About 150 members of the 
senior class 
participated in 
the inaugura­
delegates from 

the different 
colleges and universities showing their support for our college and new president," she said. "It was a neat way to see our president celebrated." 
And as inauguration week­end closed with a dance at the Angela Athletic Facility Sunday evening, many mem­bers of the community are ready to see where the future takes Saint Mary's. Senior Mia Novak is one of them. 
"It was exciting to be a part of such an important event in Saint Mary's histo­ry," Novak said. ''I'm glad I got be here and participate in something so extraordi­nary." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 

MacNaught was returning to campus. Both students were wearing seatbelts. 
"That probably saved their lives," Gruszynski said. 
Gruszynski said there was little traffic on Juniper and Douglas at the time of the accident. An ambulance and fire truck were called to the accident, although neither was needed, he said. 
Notre Dame Security/Police director Rex Hakow said NDSP officers assisted with traffic control, and the department would receive a copy of the accident report within the next few days. 'NDSP will then for­ward information about MacNaught's arrest to the Office of Residence Life, Hakow said. · 
Larissa ZavalaMejia, a friend of the two students involved in the crash, said she walked by shortly after the accident and stopped when she recognized one of the students involved. 
"The car was pretty beat up," ZavalaMeija said. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 
King 
continued from page 1 
"Charismatic Leadership lias Never Freed Us." 
Nash will deliver her keynote address entitled "Will Nonviolence Work in the 21st Century?" at 7 p.m. in the Bendix Theatre of the County Center of South Bend. 
"As we look at the 21st cen­tury, especially with the events of recent years, whether non­violence will work is a poignant question to ask," Hache! Tomas Morgan, direc­tor of International Service Learning and Justice Education at the Center for Social Concerns, said. 
Various groups at Saint Mary's have planned events to celebrate Martin Luther King, Jr. Day. One MLK Day Hemembrance Event is an ongoing viewing of "Eyes on the Prize," highlighting seg­ments of the 14-part series about the civil rights move­ment. This viewing will take place from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in Room 303, Haggar. A number of King and civil rights resources will also be on dis­play. 
"I look forward to attending these events. They are great for our campus," Saint Mary's junior Katie Kelly said. "They 


Kish 
continued from page 1 
drive of the city at all times. 
Keough rector Father Peter Jarret and Kish's resident assis­tant Danny Richter informed Kish's roommates, freshmen Peter Mueller and Brendan Ryan, Elliott and other close friends about the tragedy at about noon on Saturday. 
"They were pretty shocked ­you could see it in their faces," Hichter said. "I knew coming in that he had issues with his heart ... but he didn't seem sick ... I had no idea this was coming." 
Though he was also aware of Kish's transplant, Jarret said the freshman seemed fairly healthy. 
"As far as we were concerned, he was no different than any other student," Jarret said. "He was involved in the life of the celebrate the work that Martin Luther King has done and the work that needs to continue." 
At noon in Room 303 of Haggar, there will be a Soul Food Luncheon featuring some of King's favorite dishes. 
One of the more highly pro­moted MLK Day events at Saint Mary's is the 14th Annual Interfaith Prayer Service Memorial of Martin Luther King, Jr., held at 4:30 
p.m. in the Stapleton Lounge. The student-led prayer service will feature readings from King's sermons and refiections by students. Campus Ministry's written goals for service note it is intended to "allow members of the St. Mary's community to gather in prayer for justice and peace among all people, in ways that welcome members of different religious communities." 
"The importance is how [Martin Luther King, Jr.] sent the message of living in a just world and bringing about peace," Judy Fean, director of Saint Mary's Campus Ministry, said. "This interfaith service is for all of us to come together to break down barriers. and bring peace." 
The service will feature art­work by students in the after­school program at Marquette Primary Center, where many Saint Mary's students volun­teer. It is sponsored by 
hall, the life of the section ... had lots of friends, was very outgo­ing." 
Kish was also very responsible about taking precautions to ease the strain on his heart, such as not participating in physically challenging Freshman Orientation activities, Hichter said. It was also difficult at times for the freshman to walk to Stepan Center for their early­morning classes and tests togeth­er, Elliott said. 
But for the most part, close friends remembered Kish as a good-natured, caring person who didn't want to draw attention to himself or his heart problems. 
"He never complained," Mueller said. "He often tried to pass it off as a joke -I for one never would have gotten the impression that it was a serious condition." 
Elliott said Kish simply had "the greatest laugh I've ever 
'lb kEep your body healtey. 
'lake it every day. 
Campus Ministry and cospon­sored by the Office of Multicultural Affairs, Justice Education, the Intercultural Studies program the Ollice of Civic and Social Engagement, the Sisters of Nefertiti, the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership and the Intercultural Living Community. 
"It is our hope that people come together to reflect on the life of' a remarkable person and see that peace really is an option," Annie Crew-Henzo, a Saint Mary's campus minister, said. 
The Saint Mary's events will conclude with a showing of the movie "Four Little Girls" -a documentary by Spike Lee, that deals with an Alabama church bombing on September 15, 1963 -at 
6:30 p.m. in the Carroll Auditorium. 
"I think that the holiday is an American holiday, not an African-American holiday," Notre Dame junior Hhea Boyd said. "Martin Luther King, Jr. was a national leader whose life work was, through mobi­lizing blacks, bringing our nation togethe~ His effort is commendable, his dedication undeniable, and his wisdom simply incredible." 
Contact Karen Langley at klangel@nd.edu 
heard in my entire life." "You heard that laugh, and you started laughing," he said. 
Richter said the freshman stopped by his room occa'iionally to talk, and praised Kish -a non-Catholic -for having a strong senSe of his own faith. 
"He was a really niee guy ­smart, caring," Hichter said. ''I'm going to miss him." 
After Kish's death, both Hichter and Jarret spoke with hi'> family -including his older brother, Notre Dame senior Jefl' Kish ­but chose to give them "time and space" while offering condo­lences and prayers, Jarret said. 
A memorial mass will be held for Kish at 10 p.m. Tuesday in Keough. Jarret said he would also inform dorm residents about local funeral arrangements when they are made. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 

You need 400mcg (mic:rogr~J or 0.4 (mil.l.iqrarBJ d:rily. 
Take it this -way. An ""'¥ ""Y to be sure ;= are gettin;J a=gh is to take a rrulti-vitanin or folic acid i3Ui;Plere1t. Ycu can a1ro get it by eatirq a cereal that is 100\ fartifie:l with folic acid. 
Take= WJ.rd for it. !f there' B any chance you could beccme pregnant, you need to get erv.Jg'h folic acid every day. It has been proven to prevmt serioos birth defects v.l1en taken before preJililllCY. And it may also protect ;= frnn heart disease and certain cancers. 
'lb find C'Jt m:>re, call us at 1·800-433-0746 cc HE6-275·l274 TIY/IID or visit o.1r ~ite at -.in.<pl/~fi:lliaril. 

c:··~-"·-o•_•o. was funded by a state genetics ;urplementation qrant fran the U.S. Department of 
Services, Health Resources and Services Administration, Maternal and Child 

------~--­





ORLD & NATION 
Monday, January 17, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE 0E>SFRVEirS WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Prisoners freed in cooperation effort 
Ki\Blll., Afghanistan -Tho U.S. military frPtHI HI prisoners lwld in Afghanistan on Sunday. and tlw rountry's most S(~nior judge said till' governnwnt was pn~ssing for the rPinasP of hundn~ds mon· from American cus­tody. • 
Tlu• prisonPr ndtHLS(~ ahead of' the Muslim fpasl of Eid al-1\dha, which bogins Jan. 20, rould lwlp a reconciliation drivn with former Taliban n•gimn nwmb(~rs sought by both l'rPsidt•nt llamid Karzai and the i\meriean military in hopt~s of dl'fusing a stubborn insur­gPncy hampering Afghanistan's recovery. 
In frnsh violPncP, ol'lkials said a roadside bomb killt•d an Afghan soldier in eastern Kunar province on Friday, an i\fghan died try­ing to plant a similar dPviw further south on Saturday and a gn~nadt• attack injured a pro­gov(~rnmenl mullah in cnntral llruzgan province. 
Protest over welfare cuts continues 
ST. I'I·TI·:HSBUIH;, l!ussia-Pensionnrs and vt'lt·rans angt·n~d owr tlw cutoff of welfare paynwnts rlogged stn·Pls and paralyznd trallic in St. l'etPrshurg. hornetown to l'rnsidnnt Yl:l(timir l'ulin, for a snrond day Sunday and tlw strl'l'l dt•monslrations spn~ad to other l!ussian ritif's. 
Top gowrnnwnt ol'lirials sought. to shirt the hlanu• by arrusing n•gional leadm·s of botch­ing tlw rnanagnnrPnl of nPw sorial programs, undt~r which lwnnfits such as frn!' rm~dicine and publir transportation wen~ rnplaced by a monthly gowrnnwnt sti ptmd. 
Though St. l'l'tPrsburg authorities promised to rnston· sonu• benefits after 10,000 people j;unmnd tltP cnntnr of Hussia's sncond-largest city on Saturday, demonstrators rnturnod Sunday to rally on N«wsky Prospect, again snarling traflic in tlw centt~r of the city. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Body recovered from avalanche 
S/\1:1' lAKE CITY-Search teams digging through the tons of snow found tlw body Sunday of one of tlw five people believed buried by a pownrful avalanche in an area that skim·s had been warned to avoid. 
The body of a man who appeared to be in his 20s was found under 4 feet of snow after trairwd dogs alerted the teams searching the an~a 'f'lf Friday's slidn, Summit County Sherifl' l>ave Edmunds said at a news conference. 
Tlw body was not immediately identified. though Edmunds said the man's clothing matdwd that of a missing snowboarder. 
Tlw only person identified as having been caught by the avalanche was Shane Maixner. 2H. of Sandpoint, Idaho. 
Americans hopeful about next term 
Wi\SIIINGTON -!\ majority of Americans say thny !'en! hopeful about President Bush's second term, but thos(~ hopes are clouded by doubts about when the bloodshed in Iraq will end. 
People say Iraq should be the president's highest priority, according to an Associated Press poll that found that those surveyed are not optimistic: a stable government will take hold then~. 
i\f'ter winning re-election, Bush is prepar­ing to purstw an ambitious agenda that includes dl'orts to change Social Security, fed­eral tax laws and medical malpractice awards. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana Tech celebrates 75 years 
H)HT Wi\YNE -Indiana Tech is celebrat­ing its diamond anniversary, 75 years after its first students were allowed to attend $55 classns by paying with cars, chickens and popcorn. 
Since its humble beginnings as a college with eight students who met in a former mortuary. the university has grown to 3,600 students on a 37-acre campus in Fort Wayne. 
Tlw school has never strayed from its roots in enginnering, but over the past two decades has built up its business college. 
ISRAEL 

Army to crackdown on militants 
Prime Minister Sharon issues his directive to army after series of Palestinian attacks 
Associated Press 

JEHUS/\LEM -Prime Minister /\riel Sharon told the army to do whatever was necd(~d to end Palestinian rocket, mortar and bomb attacks, and the government dismissed a call Sunday by the PLO leadership for a halt to militant violence. 
"Despite the change in tlw Palestinian leadership, we note that those at the top have not begun any action whatsoev1~r to halt the terrorism," Sharon told the Cabinet at its weekly mt~eting. "The situation cannot continue." 
Aller nightfall Sunday, a tank shell slammed into a house in a Gaza refugee camp across from an Israeli settlnnwnt, killing a 28-year-old man and his 59-year-old mother and seriously wounding his father. Palestinians said. Tht\ military said there was no tank shelling, but tanks fired machine guns. 
The bloodshed has esca­lated tensions with the new Palestinian leader, Mahmoud i\bbas. whose election last week had raised hopes for a break­through in Mideast peace­making. Palestinian offi­cials accused Sharon of undermining i\bbas' fledg­ling efforts to persuade militants to halt the vio­not specify, however. what ing no injuries, and Sharon told his Cabinet. lence. action might be taken Palestinian mortar fire Senior military ofl'icials. 
i\ft.er Sharon unleashed against militants. damaged a home in a speaking on condition of his military, the Israeli officials discount­Jewish settlement. anonymity, said the army Palestinian Liberation ed the statement and said Israel wants i\bbas to was considering either a Organization's Central military preparations for a crack down on the mili­major raid or several small Committee met to discuss crackdown were continu­tants. While repeatedly operations against mili­the rising tensions. ing. condemning violence as tants. The military prefers 
At the end of the meet­Sharon cut off contacts counterproductive, Abbas the second option. fearing ing, the powerful PLO body with Abbas after prefers to negotiate a a broad operation would headed by i\bbas said the Palestinian militants killed cease-fire commitment ruin i\bbas' chances for militants were only hurting six Israelis at a Gaza Strip with the militants. lie has success, the officials said. the Palestinian cause and crossing Thursday. The been in talks with the The new violence may called on them to "stop all attack sparked Israeli llamas and Islamic Jihad reflect militants' desire to the military action that reprisals that killed eight groups. prove their strength and might harm our national Palestinians in Gaza on "The army and the secu­compel Abbas to take them goals and give the Israelis Saturday. rity forces have been into account as he begins an excuse to obstruct Defying the Israeli offen­instructed to step up oper­his tenure. Palestinian stability." sive, militants fired home­ational activity against ter­Militants have also 
The statement was the made rockets from Gaza at rorism and they will con­stepped up attacks ahead PLO's strongest language the southern Israeli border tinue to do so. without of a planned Israeli with­against violence since the town of Sderot, critically restrictions, I emphasize, drawal from Gaza this death of longtime wounding a teenage girl. without restrictions, as summer, hoping to make it Palestinian leader Yasscr Two more rockets landed long as the Palestinians look like Israel is fleeing i\rafat on Nov. 11. It did in Sderot on Sunday, caus-are not lifting a finger," under tire. 

U.S. troops may not leave Iraq this year 
pared -better prepared, better end of his second term in 200'J.
Associated Press 

equipped to fight -the sooner our Bush said his priorities over the 
WASHINGTON -President Bush troops will start coming home," Bush next four years arc winning the fight says the U.S. military will pull out of said. against terrorism, spreading free­Iraq "as quickly as possible," but he Powell told National Public Radio dom and democracy. reducing the is not endorsing Secretary of State last week that he believes Americans deficit and overhauling Social Colin Powell's statement that troops could begin leaving Iraq this year as Security and the tax system. could begin returning home this the Iraqis take on a larger security White Ilouse counselor Dan year. role. Powell. in his final days as the Bartlett, who appeared on three 
"The way I would put it is, government's chief diplomat, said he talks shows on Sunday, said Bush's American troops will be leaving as could not give a timeline when all the inaugural address on Thursday will quickly as possible, but they won't be troops will be home. stress those goals. leaving until we have completed our Bush said the U.S. military is "con­"It really is a liberty speech -how mission," Bush said in a Washington stantly assessing" if Iraqi security we promote liberty overseas, which Post interview published Sunday. forces are up to the job, allowing the is in our direct interest for security 
"And part of the mission is to train United States to begin pulling out. here at home, as well as liberty here Iraqis so they can light the terrorists. The president would not commit to at home," Bartlett told "Fox News i\nd the sooner the Iraqis are pre-significantly reduce troops by the Sunday." 
page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 17, 2005 

enter for a chance to win a free trip for you and a friend in our vacation sweepstakes. you have priorities. an amazing vacation is one of them. whether it's at the beach, volunteering in the community, or on an adventure, the choice is yours. for official rules, visit www~pwc.com/mypriorityvacation· 

-

-
1
. No purc~ase necessary. 


2. 
Must be at least 18 years of age, a student attending this school and legal U.S. resident. 

3. 
Must enter by 2/22/05 at 11:5gPM EST. 

4. 
See Official Rules at www.pwc.com/mypriorityvacation 


*connectedthinking 


© 2005 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. All rights reserved. "PricewaterhouseCoopers" refers to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (a Delaware limited liability partnership) or, as the context requires, other member firms of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Umited, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. 'connectedthinking is a trademark of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (US). We are proud to be an Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Employer. 
TI-lE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Monday, January 17, 2005 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,558.00 +52.17

jones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2.241 167 1,334,819,968
'V 

AMEX I ,399.07 -1.53 NASDAQ 2,087.91 + 17.35 NYSE 7,066.22 +37.55 S&PSOO 1,184.52 +7.07 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,438.39 0.00 
fTSE IOO(London) 4,820.80 +20.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.88  +0.20  23.02  
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI)  -0.15  -0.01  6.45  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.57  -0.15  26.12  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  +0.53  +0.10  18.88  
AI?PLIED MATERIALS (AMAT)  + 1.72  +0.28  16.53  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.38  +0.18  47.34  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.69  +0.29  42.16  
5-YEARNOTE  + 1.03  +0.38  37.11  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.78  +0.18  23.20  
Commodities  
liGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  +0.26  48.53  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -2.00  423.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +0.40  95.4.3  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  I 02.000  
EURO  0. 7630  
POUND  0.5344  
CANADIAN$  1.2171  

IN BRIEF 
Retired Nike CEO to sell shares 
POHTLAND, Ore. -Phil Knight, the 

recently retired CEO of Nike Inc., has filed 
tlw regulatory paperwork needed to sell 5.7 
million shares. roughly 8 percent of his total 
holdings. 
It marks one of Knight's largest single divestments in his 33 years as chief execu­tive of Oregon-based Nike, the world's largest sneaker and athletic apparel manu­facturer, company officials said. 
According to the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Knight is con­verting 5.7 million of Class A shares­which are owned only by the company's orig­inal investors and which cannot be sold -to Class B stock. which can be traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 
The shares will be sold over time, as required under SEC rules. 
!lad the transaction been completed Friday at a share price of $88.95, the total sale would be worth over $507 million. 
Knight will continue to retain direct own­ership of 92 percent of Nike's outstanding Class A shares -roughly 25 percent of Nike's total outstanding common stock. 
Company insiders say the move is intended to free up cash to help Knight with his estate planning and is not a move into the sunset. 
Macy's to eliminate racial profiling 
NEW YOHK-A school custodian who said he was wrongfully singled out for shoplifting solely because he is black applauded Macy's anti-profiling agreement on Friday as a vic­tory for civil rights. 
"I do this for every color, white, black, green. yellow." said Makan Magassa. 42. "This is not supposed to happen to anyone in this place right now. Color doesn't matter." 
The agreement between Macy's East Inc. and state Attorney General Eliot Spitzer, filed Friday in U.S. District Court, said the retailer will make sure its security guards adhere to store policy prohibiting racial and ethnic proliling in detaining suspected shoplifters. 
The retailer also agreed to pay $600,000 in damages and costs to the state. The settle­nwnt covers Macy's stores in New York state. 
Growing competition threatens TiVo 
TiVo faces difficult year as more companies enter lucrative business 
Associated Press 

SAN JOSE, Calif. -TiVo has been synonymous with digital video recording since it pioneered the industry five years ago, controlling an estimated one-third of the market in 2004. ­


That lofty perch is now ­
0
-
beginning to crumble. 

Competition in the grow­ing and lucrative industry is intensifying as cable providers. satellite opera­tors and consumer elec­tronics companies push ahead with models of their own, giving consumers more choices while threat­ening to significantly blunt TiVo Inc.'s edge. 
"They're facing a very, very difficult year this year. It'll be increasingly difficult for them to sign up new subscribers," said Josh Bernoff. an analyst at Forrester Research. "Why do you need a TiVo when there's a cable DVR (digi­tal video recorder) for free?" 
Many agree that TiVo's service remains the best of breed, with its easy navigational controls and advanced search and record functions. 
Its subscribers, who tend to be an evangelistic TIVo, which used to control about one-third of the digital recording market, Is expect­bunch. account for one in ed to see a severe decrease In sales with the Introduction of new competitors. three of the estimated 6.5 million U.S. households The rivals also charge for the boxes to arrive. agent. was that unlike the with digital video consumers less per month TiVo gave away 2,000 of others. there was no recorders. for digital recording -its DVRs to anyone who upfront cost for the equip­But the small company about $5 to $10, com­could show a Comcast bill. ment -only the monthly based in the south San pared to TiVo's $13. That's right. gave them service fee of $9.95. Plus. Francisco Bay community Consider Alex Wilkas, away. the Comcast box supports of Alviso is now playing in who appreciates the latest Then EchoStar high-definition TV signals. a land of giants, faced gadgetry but won't hesi­Communications Corp. Score one for Comcast, with a mass market of tate to trade it in if anoth­took out a full-page adver­the nation's largest cable consumers looking for er has a better price or tisement in a local news­provider. convenience and low better features. paper panning Comcast But there are millions prices. Wilkas lives in the San and reminding potential more potential customers Even with its latest inno­Francisco Bay area, where customers that the satel­to go in the nascent mar­vations, TiVo will find it the digital recorder battle lite company also offered ket of digital recording. difficult to compete escalated in December a DVR service. which lets viewers record against the clones of deep­after the local cable com­So which new set-top shows to a hard drive. fast pocketed cable or satellite pany, Comcast Corp., box arrived in· Wilkas' forward through commer­operators. started rolling out its Foster City home two cials and pause live TV. Those companies can newest DVR-equipped set­weeks ago? Comcast's A snapshot of how TiVo afford to subsidize hard­top box to customers. DVR, which allows users is being attacked from ware costs and already Comcast heavily adver­to record two channels at many fronts emerged ear­have tens of millions of tised the advanced digital once. lier this month at the customers on their ros­service. But while some The main reason, says International Consumer ters. customers were waiting the 60-year-old real estate Electronics Show,. 


Fortner McDonald's CEO dies of cancer 
talization and chemotherapy, Charlie giant, starting at a Sydney restaurant
Associated Press 

led this company with pride and in 197 5 and becoming the youngest 
CHICAGO -Charlie Bell, who determination." store manager in Australia by the began his McDonald's Corp. career Bell was replaced as CEO by Jim age of 19. as a part-time worker in a suburban Skinner, the Oak Brook, Ill. -based From 1993 until late 1999 Bell was Sydney restaurant and later became company's third CEO in a year. Bell managing director of McDonald's chief executive of the fast-food icon, was chosen to replace former chief Australia. He then served as presi­died early Monday of colon cancer in James Cantalupo, who died of a dent of McDonald's Europe until his native Australia. He was 44. heart attack in April 2004. December 2002 and was then named 
Bell was diagnosed with cancer last Early last month, Bell and his fami­president and chief operating officer May, only a month after ascending to ly returned to Sydney where he was and a board member of McDonald's. the top job. He left the fast food-giant continuing his cancer therapy. "Charlie grew up with in November, after several rounds of McDonald's spokesman Walt Riker McDonald's," Fred Turner, the com­treatment. McDonald's announced declined to comment on whether Bell pany's former chairman and CEO, his death Sunday evening. was in the hospital or at home. No said in a statement. "lie always put 
"Charlie Bell gave his all to funeral arrangements have yet been the system first. I lis natural love of McDonald's," said Andrew J. made, he said. people, his energy and passion for McKenna, chairman of the compa­Bell rose through the ranks of the life and the business were contagious ny's board. "Even during his hospi-Oak Brook. 111.-based fast food to all who came in contact with him." 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 17, 2005 




NEVER SATI~FIED? GOOD. 
Call it a hunger to accomplish something great 
Or simply,~n eagerness to solve blems 
quickly. This qualityis as much a·ben!fit as any 
we offer our· eli ents. lf you share it"" and are 
intereste 

you won'tbe disappoint~d. 
Firmwide Information Session 
Learn about our summer opportunities Tuesday, January 18, 2005 
6:00 pm -7:30 pm McKenna Hall, Center for Continuing Education, Room 100 
Application Deadline: Sunday, January 23, 2005 Apply online at gs.com/careers and through your career services office. 
Campus Interviews: 
Thursday, February 10, 2005 


GS.COM/CAREERS 


.-----------------­
Monday, January 17, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 9 

ForuiD 
continued from page 1 
divnrsity? What about Student Aetivitins, or studnnt govern­mnnt'(' 
"Tho things that was great about thnsn li1cus groups was that thnsn wnre thn pnopln that were mmmittnd to tlw issw~ ol' radsm," Baron said. "Thny wnre nspneially impassioned bncausn ol' Martin l.utlwr King, Jr. Day. Mnnting with thnsn pnopln tonight was an inspi­ration li1r anyone in student gov­nrnrnnnt, and motivation to makn this report something to mobilizn around." 
Though Baron said that they alrnady have a dnlinito dirnetion lhr the BOT report. thn testimoni­als I ward at thnsn li1rurns will bn usml to supplnmnnt and l'urthnr dirnet its aims. 
"Tho li1eus of the report is pretty set, so this is mainly a chance li1r tho studnnl<> to influence it, for us to lind the parl'i where the most stress nneds to be," he said. 
As it stands, the February 3 report will broadly deal with "Jssuns of Equality and Ensuring a Welcoming Environment For All," and will bn divided into two-parl<> -"Situation" and "Solution". 
Baron said that the plan was to make the report available for viewing a wnek in advance of the actual presentation, eithBr thmugh posting onlinn or publica­tion in Thn Observer. 
"We want studenL'i to stand up with us on Fnbruary 3 and show that some things nend to change," Baron said. 
Istvan said that while they arB prepared to handle 80 partici­pants, they expeet about 25 stu­denl'i tonight and Tuesday. 
"The great thing about focus groups is that eight people can make a sizeable contribution," Istvan addnd. 
No particular section of the stu­dent population is being targnted to partieipatn, and Baron said that while more minorities roprnsentnd more than the University's stan­dard 20 percent at Sunday's forum, the number of majority studnnl'i present surprised him. 
"We just want a diversity of opinions," Baron said. "With the focus groups themselves, we're looking for anyone who has an impassionnd interest in one of the three categories to come give us their voice so we can make their voice known to the highest of the highest bodies at Notre Dame." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

Avvards honor entertainlnent' s best 
'The Aviator' and 'Sideways' win big at annual Golden Globes 
A..sodatcd Press 
BEVEHLY HILLS, Calif. -The Howard Hughes epic "The Aviator" and the road-trip romp "Sideways" narnnd bnst-picture (ioldnn c;tohns on Sunday, boosting their status as front­runners for the upcoming Acadmny Awards. 
"The Aviator" won for best dramatic lilm, giving it an edge at the Oscars, which favor hnavyweight drama. "Sidnways" won for eomedy lilrn. 
.Iamie Foxx of the Hay Charles film biography "Hay," Hilary Swank of the boxing saga "Million Dollar Baby," Annette Boning of the showbiz comedy "Bning .Julia" and Leonardo DiCaprio of "The Aviator" also boosted their Oscar odds by winning the top acting Globes. 
"Can I just tell you that I am having the ride of my life right now?" said Foxx, considered the favorite to win the best­actor Oscar for his uncanny emulation of Ray Charles, who died last year. "l wish I could take what I'm feeling right now and put it in the water system, and we would all love each other a whole lot more." 
Earning a record three Globe nominations, Foxx lost in his other two categories, support­ing movie actor for "Collateral" and actor in a TV movie or miniseries for "Hndemption." 
Boning won for best actress in a movie musical or comedy, playing an aging stage diva in 1930s London who plots gleeful revenge against the men in her life. 
Backstage, Bening said that while Hollywood economics is geared toward roles for younger aetresses, she said there are filmmakers eager to present tales of older women. 
"I think there's no question that sexism exists, but I think that as long as people are will­ing to fight and create interest­ing stories that involve women of all different ages, then the movies will get made," Bening said. · 
Swank's and Bening's Golden Globe wins set up an Oscar rematch between the actresses, who competed against each other five years ago for best actress. Underdog Swank won the Golden Globe and Oscar for "Boys Don't Cry" over Bening, who had been considered the favorite for "American Beauty." 
Associated Press 
BATON HOUGE, La. ­Wilbert Rideau, imprisoned since the days "whites only" signs hung across the South, enjoyed his first full day of freedom Sunday, after a jury efTeetively decided he had bmm punished enough for a killing that continues to divide his hometown along raeiallines. 
Hideau, a black man convict­ed three times in the cas1~ by all-white juries, transformed himself into an award-winning journalist during more than four decades in the nation's bloodiest prison. He walked free Saturday when a racially mixed jury found him guilty of a lesser charge of manslaugh­ter. 
A quietly jubilant Hideau savored his new freedom Sunday in Baton Rouge, relax­ing at a friend's house and blinking in a world he left behind when John Kennedy was the new president. 
''I'm still trying to wrap my mind around it," Rideau told The Associated Press in one of his first interviews since tho verdict in his nativo Lake Charles. "Jail is so far distant. It's distant." 
Rideau, 62, never denied that he killed Julia Ferguson on Feb. 16, 1961, and shot two others after a botched robbery. Testifying for the first time in this trial, he said it was an act of panic. 
Prosecutors, seeking a mur­der conviction and a life sen­tence, scoffed at Rideau's con­tention that although he killnd Ferguson, he didn't murder her. But after deliberating for 

All focus groups will be held in the Student Govt Office: 203 LaFortune 
Free Pizza and Drinks provided 

Acclaimed journalist set free after 44 years 
nearly six hours, the jury of eight whites and four blaeks agreed with him that the crime was not plannnd or premedi­tated. 
Since he has spent nearly 44 years in prison -more than double the 21-year maximum for manslaughter when the crime occurred -he was immediately released. 
"It offers hopn to the black community. It's a new day," said the Hev..1.1.. Franklin of Lake Charles, who has lod a ministnr's group that has pushed for years for Hideau's release. 
After a cnlebration with his attorneys, he spnnt the night with his mother and sisters. Elsewhere in Lake Charles, a spontaneous G!~lebration broke out at a crowded zydeco ball when news of Hidnau's releasn emerged. 
"Wilbert was just so elatnd," Franklin said. "We were all just extre.mely excited. And amazed that he is free. Wn were all very excited and Wilbert's talking about his projects." 
Hideau was a janitor and eighth-grado dropout wlwn he enterod tho notorious Louisiana Stato Penitentiary in Angola. Behind bars, he became a self-edueatnd writer and helped nxposn the violence behind prison walls, elevating the prison magazine, The Angolite, to national acdaim. 
lie gained fame and numer­ous awards, eo-directing the Oscar-nominated prison docu­mentary "The Farm" and co­writing and narrating an award-winning National Public Hadio documentary. 

~oil sees 1ftotre marne sexism 
-Chicago Tribune: Dec 4, 2004 
Alternative Lifestyles not an Alternative... ND ranks #1 
-Princeton Review: 2004 
Observer Question of the Day: What did you do for MLK day? Answer from 5 students: Nothing. 
-The Observer: Jan 20, 2004 

DO SOMETHING THIS TIME! 
-· ···---···--~· ----­
Let the Board ofTrustees hear your voice on issues ofequality at ND by contributing to Student Government's winter presentation 
Focus Group #2: Heterosexism Monday Jan 17, 8:00pm Focus Group #3: Sexism Tuesday Jan 18, 8:00pm 
FDA to reassess fate of morning-after pill 
be next to condoms in drug storos," said Knlly Mangan, 22, president of the University of Florida's chapter of the National Organization for Women. Shn was arrested this month in a protest outside the FDA's hnad­quarters in suburban Maryland. 
Opponents worry that the drug encouragns women ­toenagnrs in particular -to have risky snx. If over-the­counter sales are permitted, older teenagers or adults might buy the pills for some of their younger frinnds or thoir sexual partners, critics say. 
"It encourages risky sexual activity with thn promisn 'just pop a pill in tho morning and you don't need to worry about pregnancy,"' said Wnndy Wright of Conenrned Women of America, a conservative group that focuses on social issues. 
"What we'rn concernnd about is a numbnr or young people who are not ongagnd in sexual activity who foe] trem1mdous pressure, and this will only add to the prnssurn that is on them," Wright said. 
Not contested, by either side, is that thn drug is drug is safo or effective. Some who work for the FDA believed that questions about people's sexual behavior were overwhelming scientific ones, according to an internal agency memo writtnn last yoar. 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -The govern­ment is considering whether to make morning-after birth eon­trot available without a pre­scription, and like most issw~s that involve sex and pregnancy, it has generated heated debate. 
Fierce arguments have gone on inside and outside the Food and Drug Administration, which may decide as soon as this week whether drug stores can sell the emergency contraception known as Plan B without a pre­scription to women age 16 and older. 
Each side aecuses the other of manipulating science for politi­cal purpose. 
Plan B supporters say the pill is a safe way to prevent thou­sands of unwanted pregnancies and the abortions that some­times follow. Making the contra­ception available over the counter, they say, is crucial for women who might need the pro­tection over a weekend or when it is difficult to obtain a pre­scription. 
Plan B can prevent pregnancy for up to 72 hours after sex. The sooner the pill is taken, the more effective it is. 
"Women's reproductive rights shouldn't hinge on someone else's schedule. We should have this at our fingertips. It should 

THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, January 17, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Thf! lndqmuln~t, Daily Nnvrpapn-&ruing Notre Dam~ and Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Drune, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Man l.ozar 

MANAGING EDITOR 8USINF.SS MANAGER Meghanne Downes Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOil Joe Hettler 

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: .'.arab Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather V.'ln Hoegarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EOITOil: Mike Harkins ADVEIU!SING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
President expresses gratitude 
This weekend Saint Mary's College celebrated its 160 year history and my inauguration as its 11th presi­dent. The inauguration of a college or university president is, like com­mencement, one of the great academ­ic liturgies. At commencement, the focus is appropriately on a single institution and its graduates and its faculty. In contrast, an inauguration involves the participation of the fac­ulty and students of the college but it also brings together presidents and delegates from other colleges and universities in a show of solidarity to our common calling -the preserva­tion and creation of knowledge and the passing on to and sharing of that knowledge with a new generation of learners. Saint Mary's was pleased to host presidents and delegates from almost 100 other colleges and univer­sities. Most importantly, to me, repre­sentatives from the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross and from all of the Holy Cross colleges and uni­versities in the United States were present. Each of the Holy Cross insti­tutions shares a common commitment to the vision of the founder of the lloly Cross Congregations, Father Basil Moreau; we are all committed to excellence in education and to edu­cation of the whole person: mind, heart, body and soul. The support that I have individually from the Sisters of the Holy Cross and from the other Holy Cross presidents, and the support that Saint Mary's enjoys as a member of the group of Holy Cross colleges and universities, is a life giv­ing force both for me and for Saint Mary's College. 
Organizing and executing all of the celebratory events of the past several days involved the best efforts of virtu­ally nveryone on our campus. Indeed, months of preparation went into making each of the events successful and into making the weekend a seam­less whole. I want to take the oppor­tunity to thank everyone at Saint Mary's-faculty, administrators, staff and students not only for their hard work but also for their enthusi­asm for our beloved Saint Mary's. Guost after guest told me about the wonderful hospitality they were shown by Saint Mary's. Evoryone who visited our campus over the past sev­eral days left with knowledge of our pride in our College and with excite­ment about what we have been and what we can become. That pride and enthusiasm was communicated by all of you in countless ways. I want also to acknowledge and thank the mem­bers of the Saint Mary's Board of Trustees whose commitment to the College is extraordinary and whose support made possible the wonderful celebrations marking this next chap­ter in the life of the College. 
Let me conelude by expressing my sincerest thanks to the entire Saint Mary's community and by saying how pleased I am to be home again. 
Carol Ann Mooney Saint Mary's College President Jan. 16 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 vicwpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631•4543 sporcs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OssERVERONLIN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe srudents ofrhe University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofrhe adminisuation ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor musr be signed and must include contact inrormation. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in U1ief Matt Lowr. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

i!Jc Ol~cm:r /USPS 1•Jt) 1-4000) i:. puhli~lu:d Munday lluough f-rid.ty cxccjll duri~ I!Dm .and v;u:.uum JlCriods. A sumcripwm Ill The-Ohserver iJ$1(10 liH OOC' aadcmic year;. S55 for one M:lllester. 
11n:· Ohst•rver ~~ puhlh~ltcd at: P0;TMASTER 024 South Dlnin14 Hall Send addrc~...-;;:ntrection.~ tb~ Notre Dame. IN 465')6.-0779 ThcOb~rver 
I~riod.kal pn~tJ~e paid at Notre DJmC P.O. Boxn9 
<~.nd o~dditiouJI m.1iliu~ otlkes. 014 South Dining IIIli I 

Notre Dame, IN 46SS6-IIi7'-J 
The Ohwrvct iliH mcml~er of tlu; A....~ot.:t.Ucd PJX.'<~>. AllteproditCiion rigltll> ar~ 
r~erved. 
U-WIRE 

Education shouldn't be for sale 
Sometimes those little jokey page­filler articles deep within a newspaper tell us more about the world we live in than the front pages. 
This was plainly the case last week 
when the more avid newspaper reader Matthew might have come Kennard 
across a story about a The Daily Bruin 20-year-old American University of man who is auction-Califomia­ing-yes, auctioning LosAngeles -his forehead on eBay. 
Andrew Fischer, from Omaha, Neb., said he would tattoo a non-permanent logo or brand name on his forehead for 30 day~. Last time I checked he had received 123 bids, with the largest bid over $25.700. 
Is anything safe from the sprawling tentacles of corporate power these days? The military, hospitals, schools, social security -it seems nothing now is sacred in the face of a quick buck from the leech-like corporato sector. A man is now even trying to turn his face into a billboard. Should this be a warn­ing to us all? What's even more inter­esting to us as students are his motiva­tions. He said he would use the money to pay college fees -he is planning to study graphic design. But even if he made it to UCLA he would find an insti­tution that is pimping itself in the same way. The great pride that should be associated with being an excellent pub­lic institution is slowly frittering away. Both UCLA and University of California Berkeley's law schools have been increasingly turning to private dona­tions for funding. 
I chatted with Professor Earl Thompson, an economist at UCLA spe­cializing in monetary and economic the­ory, who said, "Private universities do fairly well in this world. The trick to having a great university is to have a great budget. So if more legitimate pri­vate donors show up to offer financial support to Berkeley, we should accept it. We should even solicit private sup­port and (we) regularly do." 
So what's the problem, I thought. The university gets more money, and we, in turn, get world-class teaching and facil­ities. Why didn't we do this a long time ago? Next on my list was the UCLA law dean, Michael Schill. He seemed to be a little more coy than Edley and Thompson (he went to great pains to "resist any description of what is going on as 'privatization,"' and reassured me repeatedly that UCLA has no intention or desire to privatize). 
Private donors are not altruistic bod­ies who spend their time looking around for a university in need. They are calcu­lating prolit-maximizers who see an opportunity for making money and snatch it. 
Now there's no doubt that short-term increases in revenue are a benefit that does come with private funding. That is incontrovertible. But there is a very marked correlation between the amount of private funding a university receives and the fees it charges. Just look at any of the private institutions in the United States, like Yale, Harvard or Princeton. They all eharge more than three times as much as UCLA. 
On top of this, an increase in fees affects the ability of students to pursue careers in "public interest" fields. At the moment, graduates of the Boalt Law School at UC Berkeley are about twice as likely to work for socially conscious companies than are private law school graduates from Stanford and USC. 
But most importantly, while people like Schill will give lip service to the fact that "neither the state, the Berkeley administration, our campus, nor our faculty want us to be anything other than a public institution," privatization has an inevitability about it. The trend toward public dis-investments in higher education could spell the end of public universities altogether. Currently the state contributes as little as 44 percent of the Berkeley law budget, according to Schill. "All too often the education process is entrusted to people who appear to have no understanding of industry and the path of progress," the European Roundtable of Industrialists observed in 1998. "The provision of education is a market opportunity and should be treatod as such." 
This is what this great public univer­sity has become-a market opportuni­ty. We will soon be "intellectual capital," finding our debt-ridden way through the "knowledge economy." 
This column originally appeared in the Jan. 14 edition of' The Daily Bruin, the daily publication at the l!niuersity ofCalifornia-Los Angeles. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and nol neces­sarily those of The Obseruer. 

TooAv's STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Amanda Michaels Justin Schuver Katie Perry Mike Gilloon Tricia DeGroot Katie Seryak 
What type of job do you feel student 
Viewpoint Scene Justin Spack Maria Smith government has done this year? Graphics Illustrator Desiree Zamora Meg Dwyer 

Vote by Friday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy." 
Martin Luther King, Jr. activist 


THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Monday, January 17, 200'5 page 11 
When race really matters 

As lurk would haw it, my r.olumn happens to have l'allm on tlw observation of tho birthday of Martin Luther Kin~; .lr.. ;• day notorious for American nnws­papPr columnists to Plthrr oraiso thn grnat stridns made in nu~o rPiations sim~n the Civil Bights Mownwnt (white writers), or to harshly eritidzn the suh­Joey Falco st~rvinnt position in sodety still rPiegatPd to bhu~ks by white 
Forty Ounces to 
elitists (black writers). 
Falco 

Nt~odless to say, rny dancing and jumping abilitins have provtm time and again that I happen to boone of thn whitest people on tho planet, so buekln your snat­lwlts. 
First and limmwst. I would have to say that my biggest grievanc(~ against studenL'i of modern American race relations, mysnlf' induded, is our ten­dnney to uttributn raeo us the chief mvtivator behind every inddent that or.eurs between people from varying racial backgrounds. It sooms as though so mud1 mnphasis has bt~en plaet~d on simplifying evnrything down to black and white that wn have lost tho capacity to son anything beyond thesn two mlors wlwn it comes to analyzing contemporary sodnty. Luckily, one of the most pertinent oxamples in n~ennt nwrnory of this phononwnal obsession with racn happens to have oeeurrod on this vnry campus only a month ago: r.onsequontly, I I'm~! that a look at tho recent lwad liHlthall coaeh "s<~andal" hero at Notre I >arne in relation to tlw theories dmmpionml by some social scientists on tho trend for fadors liko rlass ami eronmnics to supon~ndn raen as thn chief motivating issues in society would bn an ideal way f(lr mo to rnspedf'ully voieo my support lin· Charlio Wnis on Martin I ,utlwr King I >ay. 
Cranted. many of tlwse aeadmnies, most notably llarvard sociologist William .Julius Wilson, implo­mmtthis argument for tho purpose of highlighting flaws in govnrnnwnt pro).,'rams that fail to aid poor blacks. Newrtlwlnss, I still l'nol that this basic linn of n~asoning can lw expoundod upon for tho purpose of justil}ting many of' tlw decisions made by lhn Board of' Trustens ovm llw past sovnral wnoks. 
For examplo, in his analysis of Anwrir.an race rnla­tions. Wilson points out tlw possibility of racial mal­trPatnwnt ot~t·urTing as a side Pll'er.t of r.apitalist busi­rwss prarlicns throughout Anwrican history. Tho ini­tictl nnslavnnwnt of blar.ks, aftnr all, rnally only gn1w popular in the UnitPd States al'ter it was detmlt~d to bP a dwaper labor alternative to tho whitn Huropnan imhmtrrn1d servanLo.; that had bmm working in America's linlds sinen thn snvnntoenth enntury. l.iknwise, in tlw industrial ora surrounding the two world wars, l'adory owners had no problnm crossing tho racial dividn and hiring black worknrs to replaen whito worknrs who had eithnr gone on strike or to war, simply for tho sake ol' maximizing profits. Cloarly, even in these oxtrnmo ca.<>ns, raee dramati­cally dedines in significance when the almighty dol­
lar is at stake. 

Following suit, then, I lind it immature, insulting, and downright ombarrassing that so many mnmbers o!' the Notre Dame c.ommunity would assume that such a relatively mundano oecurrenee as a redirec­tion or tho football program could be driven by such an unconneel!~d fador as skin eolor. Simply put, the mnmbers of the Board who felt it necessary to break with tradition and replaee our coach after only three years did so because their primary concern is and always has bonn the ovnrall well-bning of thn University. At this school, in partieular, this duty is often directly related to the success of the (ilotball program, with the sport initially putting the Irish on the map over 80 years ago and the level of alumni donations and undergraduate applications still depending to some extent on what happens eac.h autumn insid11 Notro Damn Stadium. Cons1~quently, if a mnmber of the University stall' rails to perform at thn level expoetnd of an mnployee at one of America's top schools, bo it an unpublished prof(ls­sor, an unproductive administrator or an unsuccess­ful liHltball eoaeh, he will bo rnplacod regardless or his raee. 
Aftnr all, pnople often seem to forgot this is one of tho few universitit~s in tlw nation wlwro black stu­dent athlotos are given the n~spoct they deserve not only as athlntns, but as students, too. In 2004. tho graduation rates amongst Notre Dame's football players wen~ idnntical aeross racial lines, with 7b pnrcent of whites and 7CJ perennt of blacks graduat­ing suec.ossf'ully. Comparn that to tho rates at other top football programs, like Mid1igan's 47 percent black and 70 pnrcnnt whitn graduation rates, Auburn's 40 pnrcnnt black and 7 4 pnreent whith rates, and Tmmossoe's 30 percent black and 67 per­cent white rates, and pnrhaps cynics like Michael Wilbon, the Malcolm X of the sports world, can start pointing tho linger of racism away from the allogod mistrnatment of one black millionaire in South Bond and toward places whern truly disadvantagnd blacks arn bning nngloetnd. 
In the meantimn, I'd say it's about time l'or tho Notrn Damn eommunity to unite around its new coach and start a rigorous training regiment so that ovnryonn's upper body is strong nnough to handle thn unbolievabln amount of' pushups that we'll bn doing in the stands every game next fall, because with Charlie Weis on the sidelines, things are going to get pretty nasty around horn. 
Joey Falco is a sophomore American Studies major. /lis column appears every other Monday. lie can be reached at.ifalco@nd. edu. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Don't be ashamed of football excellence 
Gary Caruso's Jan. 14 lnttor in tlw Observer's Viewpoint is an uttnr embarrassment to Notre Damn. I lis criticisms rest on the fallacious assumption that thn pursuit of' excellenen in foot­ball ean only be done at the exp1mso of' academic integrity. I would enjoy seeing him attmnpt to explain that connection to the countlnss student athletes in Notre Damn's past who attainod greatness at Notre Dame both on and oil' the field. 
Ultimatnly Notre Dame's chorishnd football program snrvns many ntw.ds, but none morn important than thos«l of' its stu­dents. Notre Damn asks much of' its student at.hlntes. morn than any other school. Finally those in ehargn of' Uw University's futuro recognize their n~sponsibility to providn them with the very best emu~hing stall' in return for the high demands it places on its young nHHJ. Asking young nHm for their best and giving them less in n~turn is a sign of badly mis­placed priorities. 
Caruso dodges an important l'ad -Tyrone Willingham failed at Notre Dame. Of course Willingham is a linn man, hut fine mnn ean fail. His program had made absolutely no progrnss in three seasons, a sign that has porttmdnd certain doom historically at Notre Dame and at other major programs. 
The trustees serve as stnwards f'or all or Nntre Damn's endeavors. It may makn Caruso uncomfortabln, but football has become a vital part or the university. both culturally and economieally. For Notre Damn's trustnns to havn allowed the administration to continun to operate under tho foolish hopn that things might magically right thmnsnlvns over tlw rwxt two years would havn bonn irrnsponsibln to say thn lnast. 
Why Willingham was tnrminatnd al'tnr his third season is t.lw question many arn asking. I bnliovn it is mw·.h morn rnltwant, appreciating football's importancn, to wonder why lwad coaches Gerry Faust and Bob Davin wnrn both allownd to coach a fourth season. Morn importantly, onn should ask why University Prnsidont Father Edward Malloy and Knvin Whitn appeared content to ignore obvious signs of failurn which his­tory attmnptod to teach tlwm. 
Finally, Caruso's assertion that Notrn Damn nnvnr accnptnd Willingham is a patlwtk attnmpt to paint alumni as intolnrant raeists. Willingham was widely n~spnctnd by alumni as t.lw man of character and integrity he gnnuinely is. Unliu"lunatnly, were this all onn nnndnd to nxco!, tho job of' Notre Damn limt­ball coach wouldn't be worth writing about as often as pnopltl do. Willingham himself understood thn yardstick lw'd lm measurnd by at Notre Damn. No orw questiorwd how wPII lw was aecnptnd during the narly succnss«~s of Willingham's first season. l~xcnllnncn is what alumni a<~cnpt, bocausn nxcellnncn is what our student athletes dosnrvn. 
Of coursn, nonn of this mattnrs now. Wn haw witnnss«~d tlw nmergnncn of a nnw calling among tlw Board of Trustees known as accountability. The nnw administration refusns to apologize for pursuing exeellenen in f(lOtball and will no longnr join Caruso in his hand-wringing owr false dwiees. It's going to bn awfully fun watching people likn Caruso li~nl uncomfort­able explaining to his (",ollnaguos why wn'rn winning again. 
Chuck Emma 
alumni 
class of'84 Jan. 14 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Monday, January 17, 2005 
BooK REVIEW 
Original 'Sex and the City' lacks class 
By BECCA SAUNDERS Assistant Scene Editor 
It is the rule that in most eases, when a book is turned into a movie, mini-series or television series, the book is better than the visualized ver­sion of the story. 
This is not the case in Candace Bushnell's "Sex and the City." While the immensely popular IlBO series "Sex and the City" is based off this book and the life of the writer, the show is generally wittier than and not quite as obscene as the book. The writers of the "Sex and the City" series are also much better at dialogue and the like than Bushnell, whose writing is often jum­bled, confusing and wordy. 
Thn book is a collection of Bushnell's 
debauchery throughout the collection of columns in "Sex and the City." 
The book is broken into chapters that seem to be arti­cles or perhaps multiple arti­cles on the same topic written by Bushnell. With topics rang­ing from "modelizers" (men who only date models), "Bicycle Boys" (men who ride their bikes around the city like the literary men of old), three­somes, psychotic parents, the suburbs and much more, it would be impossible to deny that "Sex and the City" is informative. However, just how much information does the average person really want to know about the sick world that seems to compose Manhattan? "Sex and the City" pushes boundaries, but at times Bushnell pushes too far, pro­
viding too 


much dis­
articles for 
turbing

the New 
information

Y o r k 
about her

Observer 
personal

that she 
life and the

began in 
personal

1994. After 
lives of oth­

the popular­
ers.

ity of the 
The first

column in 
half of "Sex 

New York 
and the

City took 
City" begins 

ofT, Bushnell 
composed this collection of artieles that became the book in 1996. The version that is now available also has an introduction by Bushnell from 2001 and two added chapters at the end of the book. 
While the stories range from sweet, shocking, funny and borderline offensive, they are all intriguing, even if all one is intrigued by is the seemingly sick world in which Bushnell portrays the majority of New Yorkers as inhabiting. Everyone is unhappy, unfaith­ful and unfulfilled in the Big Apple, and Bushnell willingly gives out the details of the 
very slowly. Collected columns jump from topic to topic, covering bits and pieces of the friends in Bushnell's life. Of course everyone is given a pseudo­nym, but the identity of most of the characters would proba­bly be a bit obvious for anyone who actually knew Bushnell. The main character is referred to, by Bushnell, as her friend Carrie. Carrie is quite obvious­ly Bushnell, and the second half of the collection of columns reads much more like a novel as the columns dive in · to Carrie's relationship with "Mr. Big." 
Big is of course not attentive 
enough to Carrie, causing her to do drugs, almost sleep with a woman and claim she had lost her mind. Carrie ends up coming across as needy, jeal­ous and eventually kind of nuts, which is interesting con­sidering Bushnell published these columns for all of New York to read in close proximity to the relationship happening, and thus makes the connection between her and crazy Carrie all the more apparent. The added chapters make clear the closeness of the writing of the articles to the events in Bushnell's life as the last two chapters detail the break-up of Carrie and Mr. Big. The novel ends on a different note than the series as "Mr. Big is happi­ly married. Carrie is happily single." 
For fans of the 1-IBO series, "Sex and the City" may be worth the read, but without some vested interest in the series,. "Sex and the City" the book would most probably be an un-enjoyable experience. Many of the names are the same, such as "Samantha Jones," "Stanford Blateh" and "Miranda Hobbs," although the professions are different. The driving force behind the novel is the relationship between Carrie and Big, which is true in the series as well. Some of the ideas for different episodes are taken from the columns, such as attending a baby shower thrown by an old friend from the city in the sub­urbs where Carrie finds "a fourteen-by-seventeen color photograph of Jolie, Demi Moore-style, naked save for a skimpy negligee that-was open in the front to reveal humon­gous [breasts] and a huge belly." There are many traces of the series in the book by Bushnell and overall it is dear the original columns served as inspiration for the series, but not much more. 
Bushnell's writing is weak, and although the stories she shares of Manhattan at its worst and best are interesting, they are nothing spectacular in regards to subject matter or style. A fan of the HBO series may find the book interesting, but it hardly ever rises above average and at times is far 


Photo courtesy of www.amazon.com 
below even that point. Although Bushnell is the cre­ator, "Sex and the City" is just a little classier and wittier via Sarah Jessica Parker. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 

PAC REVIEW 
St. Petersburg Ballet puts new twist on old story 
_By CHRISSY ROCHEL 
Scene Writer 

South Bend patrons of the arts had a rare chance to see one of the top ballet comapa­nies from across the world last Thursday. 
The St. Petersburg State Ballet Theater usually performs in Europe or Asia, but visited South Bend as part of a series of acts presented at the Morris Performing Arts Center thanks to scheduling from Notre Dame's DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
St. Petersburg State Ballet Theater danced a modern ver­sion of the famous tragic love story. The show eliminated tra­ditional features such as the classic balcony scene often used in ballet versions of "Romeo and Juliet." This mod­ern take on Shakespeare's famous ·play personified death with a dancer in a black span­dex bodysuit. This character acted as the sword-killing Mercutio and Tybalt in the two fight scenes. This dancer also gave Romeo the kiss of death at Juliet's gravesite and presented Juliet with the sword that ended her life. 
As death danced the end to the sad story, Romeo and Juliet were lifted towards the ceiling on wooden boards. Meanwhile, the other dancers posed on stage with blue lights, which represented the stars of heav­en. 
The staging as well as the characters and costumes pre­sented a modern interpretation of the ballet. The performance began with a transparent cur­tain slightly obstructing the view of the audience. Wooden pillars lifted and descended upon the right and left sides of the stage during climactic scenes. Though this new pres­entation failed to leave the audience teary-eyed at the close, the audience rose to its feet to give an enthusiastic standing ovation and left the theater smiling. 
The performers danced the 
choreography of Serge Vikulov to the moving musical score of Sergei Prokofiev. When the band of Capulet men danced on stage in black and red attire, combatant like music highlight­ed the conflict between the houses of Montague and Capulet and passionately drew in the audience. 
Ballet connoisseurs· deem St. Petersburg the birthplace of Russian Ballet. The 38-year old St. Petersburg State Ballet Theatre has received the high­est official status by the Russian government. Only the best companies in Russia gain the prestigious title of "State and Academic Ballet." This company has toured in over 50 countries with numerous sold­out audiences. 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center executive director John Haynes said he was "particu­larly excited for the perform­ance" and felt that "students as well as the entire South Bend community benefits from hav­ing such renowned artistic per­formances come to the area." 
Haynes said that ND Presents will continue bringing award­winning performances to the Morris with the upcoming National Acrobats of Taiwan in March and the Opera Verdi Europa in April. 
Contact Chrissy Rochel at 
crochel@nd.edu 



THE OBSERVER 





CENE
Monday, January 17, 2005 
page 13 

Relaxing off the beaten path 
A look at the non-traditional nightlife beyond the typical 
student destinations 
1\y CHRISTIE BOLSEN 
As,i.~tanl Scene hli10r 
II' tlw words "onn in, one out" makn 
you f'nol sad inside, thnn you arn proba­
bly familiar with tlw standard student 
linnup of' nowdnd bars:.Ciub 23, 
Corby's, Bum Hun n1~rs, Statn, 
llnartland. fo'i n n igan 's and tho Backer. 
I•:vPn with Tlw Boat Club gonn, many of' 
thnsn nstablishrnnnt.s ol'l'nr tlw same 
familiar 1'1wling ol' having your body 
pr1~ssPd intimately against pnopln 
whom you only vagunly rncognizn in 
your attempts to l'orcn your way 
through a wall of' studonts to the dis­
tant rPstrooms. 
If' not having your arms pinnnd to 
your sidns is morn important to you 
than snning ovPryonn you'vo nvnr 
known sincP f'rnshman yoar, thnrn is a 
wholn now world of' altornativn drink­
ing spots for you to try. Frnqunntml by 
lo1:als instead ol' studnnts, you may only 
know tlw poopiP you eanw with, so 
bring good company. Thoro probably 
won't hn f'nw drink coupons a Ia the 
Back1~r. hut many ol' tlw spndals arn 
surprisingly nasy on tho wallnt. and 
most pl<u:os ol'fnr morn originality in 
tnrms or atmosphere and erowd than 
tlw usual student bars-and of' course, 
a brnak from tho nl.nrnal erowds. 
llnn~·s a roundup of just a sampling of' 
what tlw South Bnnd arna has to olTnr 
studnnts 21 or older and with valid 
idnnti lication. 
The Sports Page 
Whiln this bar is more out of' tlw way with its (irangnr location, tho Wndnnsday and Thursday bargains on pitchnrs make the trip worthwhile­think penny pitchers and deals on import honr. As for atmosphere, thorn are giant telnvisions overywhere for sports fans and a dance floor in one room for daneo party fans. It's spa­dous and dean, suitable oither for an narly game wateh or a night out with frinnds. 
.lust like nveryone's favorite Sunday bars, it's open seven days a week. As a bar and grill it offers an impressive menu as well. and the restaurant area doubles as a relaxed place for non­dancers to sit. There usually aren't Notre Dam1~ students, but there is a youngnr crowd most of the time, mostly studnnts from othor colleges. Tho local crowd is l'rinndly and approachable for tho most part, so even though you won't recognizo as many people as usual you ean still bn sociable. 
Tho Sports Pagn is located on 50827 Princess Way in Grangor. 

Cheers 
Everybody won't know your name, but at loast you ean got eheap drinks and hear bands. There are specials on shots on Wednesdays and Thursdays, and this bar also featuros live musie on a regular basis-open jams on Wndnesdays, whern Cheers supplies tho oquipment, and Thursday through Saturday there is different entertain­ment. Many Notre Dame bands play at this venue, so you can come support thorn as well-a plus if you're tired of the samo soundtrack of 80s and coun­try featured at most places that don't have livn musie. 
Cheers is located on 103 S. Dixie Way. 

Club LaSalle 

And now, for something completoly 
dil'f'orent-patrons of this bar rofnr to it 
as a "diamond in the rough in South 
Bond" because of its distinctly upseale 
environment. On Tuosdays there are 
specials on mini martinis, whieh 
attracts many graduatfl students, but 
tho main pull of Club LaSallo is thn 
"businoss relaxod" ambiance. The 
mood is set with thn loathnr furniture 
and darker lighting, and is rnminiscent 
ol' a Chicago jazz club or a big city bar. 
Those looking for a frosh experioneo or 
those who enjoy the linnr things in life 
may spond morn money but will enjoy 
the dassy atmosphero. 

Club LaSalln foaturns live nntnrtain­
ment on Wednesday through Saturday, 
which rang.os from jazz to blufls to 
funk, nithnr solos or duos and larger 
bands. Thorn is a $4 eover on those 
nights, but tho club brings in bands 
from places like Minneapolis, Chicago 
and Detroit. Tho bar is open Tuesday 
through Saturday, and is a part of' the 
LaSallo Grill building. Anyone looking 
to nnjoy tho elassic cocktails should bo 
advised that jeans, shorts and tennis 
shoes arn discouraged. 

Club LaSallo is located on 115 W. 
Colfax Avo. 


Club Landing 

Sinco Club Landing is always packed, it might not be the best alternativo for people looking to avoid thn swarms of people at State and Club 23. It does offer more than the typical swoaty dance l'loor, however; there are salsa dance party nights, DJs and live ontor­tainment. There are drink specials ovory night it's open, Wndnesday through Saturday. When warmer weather arrives and you ean stop wearing a parka and snow boots when you go out, there's outdoor daneing and dining. This is mostly a club for people who can't get enough of the dance floor and want a "casual yet upscale envi­ronment." 
Club Landing is located on 1717 Lincolnway East. 

Truman's Night Club 

Although the Princeton Review thinks that alternative lifestyles are not an alternative at Notre Dame, Truman's has entertainmnnt and specials that might appeal to students who are tired of the same old thing every night. Next to Hum Hunners, Truman's is a nightelub, lounge and sports bar. Wednesday is karaoke night, Thursday through Saturday there are drag shows in the lounge, Sunday is open mic night, and all weekend the sports bar is open for no cover. 
There's no cover during the week, although there arn specials on Wednesdays and Thursdays where you can pay $5 to the bar­tender to get drink deals. You don't have to pay if you just want to check out the dance floor, which seems to be the main appeal for students who have given the enter­tainment complex high reviews. 
Truman's is located on 100 N. Center St. in Mishawaka. 

Quasi-Traditional Bars 

Many of these bars don't deserve the title of "non-traditional" since 
thoy'ro oithor on their way baek to tho realm ol' traditional or because they have fairly high student attendanen on a regular basis, so thny fall under the sem i-alternativn category. 

Bookmaker's 

Bookmaker's espfH~ially ranks as on its way baek to mainstream, since it's been packed wall-to-wall as of late. The host deals on covnr and drinks arn on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, so it can be a f'irst-choiee destination or an altornativn if' other places are too crowded. Since Tho Boat Club's domiso, this bar has soon a resurgeneo of stud0nts. It's close to campus, roomy and elean, making it fun for any night or tho wonk. Bookmakor's is locatod on 2046 South Bend Avo. 

Madison Oyster Bar 
Madison Oyster Bar attracts students consistently with its morn laid-back atmosphere, and it also offers specials every night. Thnre are three lnvels. somo pool tables and a jukebox as well as televisions. Tho food and drink mnnus are mor1-1 original than tho stan­dard faro at other bars, and it's a notch above in classiness in case you want to bring your parents out to a sanitary bar when they come to visit. As you may have guessed, you can indeed dine on oysters if' you're adventurous. Madison Oyster Bar is loeatod on 129 
N. Main St. 


Fiddler's Hearth 

Seniors may remember whon Fiddler's Hearth opened a few years ago. Tho live entertainment ranges from blungrass, Celtic and folk, and the 

Alternate weekly bar s9hedules 
Tuesda.v Oyster Bar 
-The Sports Truman's 
--"'.~;;;;::;;,im"ii;;--·!f. :~1•·JJt·~dlW ~=~ iedletf'-s Hearth 
pub's boor rnnnu might nvnn satisfy people who miss lwing abroad. II' you're choosy about how your Cuinnnss is pournd and prnsPntPd, f.'iddlnr's is a Guinnnss Cold Standard Location -$4 for tho pnrl'ol:l. pint.. or course, you should nxpnet nothing loss from a pub that sorvos hangers and mash, WPish rarebit and Molly Malone stow. TIH' atmosplwro is suitahln for dinner and nvnn famili1~s. siJH:n tlw uniqun nntnr­tainnwnt should lw thn main attradion in this cozy pub. Unlike tho ot.hnrs on tho list, Fiddlnr's in not limited to 21 and over -any01w ol' any ago can sit in the dining room, as long as tlwy stay out of' thn bar arna. Fiddler's llnarth is located nnxt to Madison Oyster Bar on 127 N. Main St. 





More where those came from ... 
Tlwre an~ actually many nwrn bars and dubs in tho Notrn Danw area for pooplo borne! with tlw rnpntition ol' night life, so you don't havn to resort to tho samn snvnn places nvnry wnPk whiln pining away for Boat. Most pno­pln would bn surprisnd at how many drinking nstahlishnwnts thnrn arP which lend to got ignornd in our hastn to got to our usual stomping grounds; that said. thnrn is absolut.nly nothing wrong with a wnnkly routinn of' trind­and-trun bars. So wlu;tlwr you try out Martha's Midway Tavern for a nnw nxporinnen, or whnthnr you just can't tear yourself' away from Corby's nar.h wonk, just rnnwmbnr that thorn's always a drink spncial waiting for any­one 21 or over sonwwhnrn in South Bend. 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu 
' ­
Monday, January 17, 2005 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MEN'S TENNIS 




Toledo, Illinois State fall victim to Irish men 
Buchanan defeated Travis

Bass, King post wins Curran 6-3, 6-1 No. 113-ranked Barry King
to lead ND to victory 
clinched the match at No. 2 for 

the Irish with a 6-3, 6-1 win By KATE GALES over Tony Tran with a 6-4, 7-6 Sports Writer (7-1) score. At No. 3, Hyan 
Keckley notched a 6-2, 6-4 vic­

There wasn't much suspense tory over Freddy Gomez.· this weekend at the Eck Tennis Making his debut at the top Pavilion. The No. 34 Irish domi­spot for the Irish, No. 77­nated season-opening play, reg­ranked Stephen Bass defeated istering a 7-0 victory over Khalid AI Nabhani to finish sin­Toledo Saturday morning and gles competition. adding a 6-1 win In doubles, over Illinois State Langenkamp and 
on Saturday after­"/ think we kind of Peter Graham ­
noon. fresh off a shoul­
passed a test.
"Overall this is a der injury -took strong showing," We've still got work the first match for Irish coach Bobby the Irish 8-4, and
to do." 
Bayliss said. ''I'm Jimmy Bass and real excited about co-captain Nick 
Bobby Bayliss
our team -I Chimerakis don't know how Irish coach clinched the point good we are yet." for the Irish with 
The Irish did not an 8-6 victory. lose a set to Toledo, as No. 6 Co-captain Brent D'Amico and Eric Langenkamp put up the Keckley concluded play against season's first point with a 6-2, Toledo with an 8-6 victory at 6-0 victory of Josh Moran. At the top doubles spot. No. 4, lrackli Akhvlediani fol­"I think everyone's doing a lowed with a 6-1, 6-1 win over great job," D'Amico said. "It's Chris Clark and No. 5 Patrick definitely positive to have a lot 
~ 
of young guys contributing." 
Irish momentum carried through the first match into the afternoon, where the team defeated Illinois State 6-1. 
"I think we kind of passed a test," Bayliss said. "We've still got work to do." 
Bayliss modified some of the singles positions in the day's second matches as well as rear­ranging the doubles lineup. 
Bass was first off the courts in singles play with a 6-1, 6-2 win over Guillermo Gomez at the No. 1 spot. D'Amico followed at No. 3 and King at No. 2, both with scores of 6-3, 6-3. 
Sheeva Parhbu clinched the match in his first time on the courts playing collegiate tennis. In the No. 4 spot, he topped Oscar Beich 6-1, 6-3. Akhvlediani added another point at No. 5 with a 7-5, 6-2 defeat of Alban Renard. 
In a hard-fought battle at No. 6, Ryan Keckley fell to Alfredo Lagarda in the Redbirds' come­from-behind victory with a score of 4-6, 7-6 (7-3), 1-0 (11­9). 
Keckley came back for the doubles comeption, however, as he and D'Amico soundbr won 8­1 in the top spot.·~<'. 2. Langenkamp and Parbhu w-;~n 8-5 and Bass and King stayed. perfect with an 8-4 win at No. 3. 
Despite the lopsided victories, Bayliss wants his team to stay' focused on tougher competition ahead. 
"We've got to continue. to improve as the season goes on," Bayliss said. "1 just hope we can get a win or two early that helps really propel us and helps us believe with ourselves." 
This weekend provided a solid foundation for that sort of confi­dence. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu. 
NOTRE DAME 7, TOLEDO 0 at the ECK PAVILLION 
SINGLES 
No. 1: #77 Stephen Bass (NO) d. Khalid AI Nabhani (T) 6-4, 7-6 (7-1). No.2: #113 Barry King (NO) d. Tony Tran (T) 6-3, 6-1. No. 3: Hyan Keckley (ND} d. Freddy Gomez (T) 6-2,6-4. 
No. 4: Iraekli Akhvlediani (ND} d. Chris Clark (ND} 6-1, 6-1. No. 5: Patrick Buchanan (ND) d. Travis Curran ('f) 6-3. 6-1. No. 6: Eric I.angenkamp (ND} d. Josh 
r-.'man (T) 6-2, 6-0. 
IJOVBLES No. 1: D'AmicoiK~ddey (NDI d, AI Nabhaniffran (T) 8-6. No. 2: (;raham/l.angenkamp !NO) d. Gomr.:r/foral IND) 8-4. No. 3: Bass/Chimerakis INI)) d. Moran/Ragnr ('(') 8-6. 
NOTRE DAME 6, ILLINOIS STATE 0 at the ECK PAVILLION 
SJN(;LES 
No. 1: #77 Stephen Bass IND) d. Guillermo Gomez (ISU} 6-1,6-2. No. 2: #113 Barry King (ND) d. Ojorde Uskokovic (ISU) 6-3, 6-3. No. 3: Brent D'Amico IND} d. Luka Marenkovic (ISU) 6-3, 6-3. No. 4: Sheeva Parbhu INDJ d. Oscar Beich (ISUJ 6-1,6-3. No. 5: Irackli Akhvlediani IND) d. Alban Henard (ISU} 7-5, 6-2. No. 6: Alfredo Lagarda IISU) d. Ryan Kecklcy [NDJ 4-6, 7-617-3}, 1-0 (11-9). 
DOUBLES 
No. 1: ll'i\mieo/Keckley IND) d. Gome~AJskokovic (ISU} 8-1. No. 2: Langenkamp/Parbhu [NO) d. Marenkovil:/l'ettinari (ISU} 8-5. No. :{: Bass/King (ND) d. Lagarda/Renard IISU) 8-4. 

tNFL 


Falcons swoop past Ran1s, Steelers survive in overtin1e 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA -Michael Vick rolled to the left, brushed aside a rusher like a pesky gnat and took off the other way. 
lie didn't stop until 4 7 yards later. 
The Atlanta Falcons were off and running -and their one­of-a-kind quarterback had plen­ty of teammates along for the ride. 
Warrick Dunn ran for a 62­yard touchdown, Allen Rossum set an NFL playoff record for punt returns and the Falcons routed the St. Louis Rams 47-17 Saturday night. 
Vick? He was right in the mid­dle of things, of course, throw­ing a pair of touchdown passes and running for 119 yards to break Donovan's McNabb's year-old record for rushing yards by a quarterback in a playoff game. 
But Vick's teammates man­aged to escape his considerable shadow, putting Atlanta within one win of the Super Bowl. 
"You saw a team that plays together," rookie coach Jim 
Mora said. "You saw a team that's pretty complete. We like to say in the locker room that the best player on our team is our team. We proved that tonight with the way we played." 
The Falcons advanced to the NFC championship game for just the second time in the fran­chise's 39-year history. They will either host Minnesota or travel to Philadelphia next weekend for a spot in the Super Bowl. 
Steelers 20, Jets 17 
Two minutes, two misses. And now no more chances for the New York Jets. 
Doug Brien lined up for his second shot at winning the game against the Pittsburgh Steelers on the last play of reg­ulation. The 43-yarder launched off his foot, and Brien immediately knew something was terribly wrong. He kicked the ball so hard, it started curv­ing, curving, curving until it sailed wide left. 
Just before that, Brien bounced a 4 7 -yard try off the crossbar that would have given the Jets the late lead. 
Instead, the Steelers got the perfect opportunity to steal a game they seemed destined to lose. Jeff Heed kicked a 33-yard field goal in overtime to win it 20-17 Saturday, and the Cardiac Jets trudged off the field. Heartbroken. 
Kind of like what the Jets did to the Chargers last week in the wild-card round, when Brien was the hero after making a 28­yarder to win it. 
"I just feel bad for the team," said Brien, his eyes tearing up while teammates dressed silent­ly around him. 'Til be fine. I just feel bad for the guys that played so well, played so hard and came up short." 
The Jets, who went into the fourth quarter with a seven­point lead, blew that when Hines Ward scored on a shovel pass from Ben Hoethlisberger. 
Brien, his sentences clipped, said he tried to hit his second attempt harder because the first one came up short. Everyone on the team, from coach Herman Edwards to Chad Pennington, thought the second kick would win it, prolonging their roller-coaster season. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Complete working computers $125 574-286-3295. 
WANTED 
Reliable childcare needed for 2 chil­

dren. Schedule varies,3 days/week FoR RENT 
10:30-5:00 (8:00-5:00 non school 
days), which includes school pick 
up. Reliable vehicle,proven driving 
record,and child care history are 
required. Call Amy,287-5152 after 

6pm. 2-6 bedroom homes for 05-06 Walking distance from NO. 
2-6 BDRM HOMES. NOW & 2005/6. 272-6306 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BED­ROOM HOMES. GOOD CONDI­TION. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call Sean 532-1895. 
1 bdrm apt 1/2 mile to NO. $550/mo. Laundry incl. Call 283­0325 
Furn.room w/amenities in private home. Near UP Mall. Nice area. www. Daveshouse.com 
New 4-bdrm,3-bath home.Avail  Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849  BOSOX FANS check out newyork­ 
8/05. Cathedral ceiling, fireplace,  chokees.net  
deluxe kitchen, skylights, 2-car  www.ststravel.com  
garage, family room, 1Ox20 deck.  Happy Birthday Eli!  
Safe area. Call 57 4-232-4527 or  FREELANCE ONLINE TUTORS  
269-683-5038.  Instruct 3-12 grd stdnts;lnternet  
connex reqd; tutor/teach exp. prefrd  
HOUSES FOR RENT:3-5 BED- jobs@ brainfuse.com  The Dirty Birds will fly again.  
ROOM HOMES.GOOD CONDI­ 
TION.CLOSE TO CAMPUS.Call  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5  
Sean 532-1895.  Days $299! Includes Meals,  
Celebrity Parties!  Maybe next year, Peyton.  
PERSONAL  Panama City, Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco,  Here's your shout out Doyle.  

MMMRentals.com 532-1408 Nassau $499! Award Winning
FoR SALE 

3 bdrm north of campus, ample Spring Break 2005 with STS, Company! From your favorite creeper. House for rent across from NO. parking, partially furnished, many Americas #1 Student Tour Pre-owned Dell computers. $100-Avail now and for 2005-06 school extras. Call412-478-5192 for the Operator. Hiring campus reps.Call SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678-Ray and Foxy...too cute. 
250. 574-229-3333. yr. Call 232-0875. details. for group discounts. 6386 
Monday, January 17, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
HOCKEY 


Ohio State bucks Notre Dallle, s-weeps -weekend series 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports Writer 
Saturday was just orw of' lhosn nights for thn Irish ­nights tlwy'vn had far too much ol' this snason. whnn nothing S«H'nwd to go their way. 
Irish dnl't'nsnman Brock Slwahan roeoivnd tho puck at tlw top of' tlw hd't drdP with a widn-opPn look at thn goal dur­ing a powPr play and tho scorn 2-1 in favor of' Ohio State. lin rnarnd hat:k and ripp11d what VPry WPII t:ould havP been the gar;w-tying goal, only his stick 
brokt~. 
Oops. 
For a team that has bonn hav­ing so many problems ofTonsivo­ly, t.his strangn oeeurrenee snnnwd fitting. 
Off'nnsivnly, the Irish have bn1m dismal in thnir last several nfTorts. and tlw loam's glaring prohlom n~arnd its ugly lwad both l.'riday and Saturday night, as tho Irish droppnd both games to Ohio Stat«~. 4-1 and 3-1. 
Things opnrwd up fairly woll on l.'riday night, as tlw Irish l'ou nd thnmselves on the lwttor oml or a !'i-on-3 power play. 
I !'i:!'i2 into the first period, Cory Md.nan found Wns O'Neill opnn at thn blue line, and O'Noill slappnd ono in from thn point to giv1~ Notrn Dame a 1-0 lead. Tlw sophomore defense­man O'Neill leads thn Irish in goals f'or tho season with snven. 
llownver, the Irish lead did not last long. 
(;oing into the wnnknnd against the Irish, the Bueknyns wem scoring on roughly 20 per­cent of thoir power plays -and it did not take too mueh time to prove the strength of this aspeet of' their game. 
At 18:53 of the first period, Irish dnfonseman Noah Babin was called for tripping. The Bueknyos wastnd no time, with forward Tom Fritsche seoring on goalie Dave Brown from the near right cirde just 23 snconds later. 
Nate Guenin's IWim-strength goal at 10:22 or tho second peri­od gave thn Buckny11s a 2-1 load. 
Tho Buckeyes' success on the power play continund in the third period, when Notre Dame's Vietor Oreskovich was called f'or high sticking 1!'i:33 into the period. Ohio State's !'or­ward Bryce Andorson set up on tho right eirde and scored on a onn-timnr !'rom Fritsche to make tho seore :1-1. 
"Wo did a good job on the ponally kill and unfortunately it's not going to look like it because there is going to be throe or !'our goals on the power play," Irish eoach Dave Poulin said. "The last onP the kid gets his stiek lifted from bnhind, the othor one the penal­ty is almost over, and the kid throws it up blind." 
At 17:!'i4 in thn third pnriod, Sheahan was penalized for slashing, and true to form, Ohio State again took advantage wlwn Matt Bnaudoin scorml ofT his own rebound to put the game out of' roach. 
Arter Friday's game, Poulin addressed the problems that thn tnam is having offensivnly. 
"We are a prntty good defen­sive hockey team that right now has got some kids that are struggling in their beliefs to score goals," Poulin said. "It's going to happen again, but it certainly can't come soon 
nnough f'or this coach or this team." Unfortunately, the Irish ol'f~m­sive problems have had a nega­
tive  ef'f'eet  on  the  team's  
dnl'nns«~.  
"I  think it gets  to  a  point  

where you're up on you1: toes and your trying to do whatever you can to score a goal and you leave yow·sell' vulnerable del'en­sivoly," Poulin said. 
The problems continued on Saturday, as the Irish again struggled to lind a groov!l oiTen­sivnly until it was a littln too late. 
The Buckeyns eamn out aggressive and continu!ld to prove why they are rncognized l'or being strong on tlw power play. 
Early in thn gamn, the Irish worn whistled for having too many men on the ice. 
At the R:28 mark, Sean Collins made the Irish pay for that mis­eue, l'inding Hod Polley, who scored to give Ohio Stain a 1-0 lead. 
Ohio State tacknd on another goal midway through tho sec­ond period, as Fritsche made a beautif'ul pass from behind the net to set up a backhand shot from in dose by Anderson. 
Notre Dame responded ·mid­way through the third period, as .Josh Seiba scored orr a rebound in front of the net. 
Seiba's goal seemed to rejuve­nate the Irish intensity. 
"Confidenee is a very fragile thing," Poulin said. "You can sne when Wfl seore a goal in the third period, all of a sudden not only the guy who seored the goal is confident, but the whole team is confident." 
Despite their inspired play down the streteh, the Irish 

RICHARD FRIEDMANfThe Obsen~er 

Irish goalie Morgan Cey deflects a shot by Buckeye forward Rod Pelley during Notre Dame's 3-11oss to Ohio State. 
eould not lind a way to score a tying goal, and the Buckeyes taeked on an empty net goal with night seconds remaining. 
"ThPre were a few opportuni­ties tonight, thnre wore morn scoring chanens than we've had dearly," Poulin said. 
Onee again, senior· Morgan Cey played beautifully in the goal for the Irish, making 27 saves in the losing effort. 
"For now, all I can do is come in to the rink every day and work my hardest and give my team a chance to win ever night, so that's all I'm trying to do," Cey said. "We'll take any kind of momentum we can get. .Josh's goal there in the third really lifted our spirits, and we need little things like that to gnt our confidence going." 
Cey has now allowtld night goals in the team's last f'ive gamns, f'ollowing his 27-savP pnrl'ormaneo Saturday night. 
"lin's rnally good," Poulin said, with a slight smiln on his face. 
Notre Danw would lovn to now take thn confidence that eamn from the last half of th•~ third period Saturday into this wenk, when they play Tunsday against Michigan Teeh and nnxt wnnkond against Wiseonsin in consecutivn league games. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.cdu 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Saint Mary's falls into fourth place 
offee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 

By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
In the midst of a streteh coach Suzannn Bellina has ealled "so important to us," tlw Bnlles lost a key game to Alma Saturday 77-71 in overtimn. 
Saint Mary's (7-9, 2-5 MIAAJ entered Saturday one gam11 ahead of Alma (7-6, 2-5) in llw confnrnncn standings. Tlw loss drops Saint Mary's into a four­way tin for llfth with Olivet. Tri­State and Alma. 
Star . forward Emily Creachbaurn said the team is disappointtld with dropping an opportunity to pick up a win against Alma, an MlAA bottom fender. 
"I Saturday I would havn helped established us in tho middle of the pack," she said. 
With the eonfnrenee season heating up and the Belles still on a roller eoaster ride, Creaehbaum said the tlmm is trying to eoneentrate on one game at a time. 
"Every win in our eonl'ernncn will help us move up," she said. The Belles' schedule should be easier over the nnxt few 
against M IAA powerhouses Albion. llopn and Calvin. 
"We'vn already played tlw top tnams in our eonfnrenen on tho road," Cwachbaum said. 
Likn so many games this sna­son, the BPIIns started the Alma gamn hot. and led :H1-:H at half­time but lost t.hn lead after half­limn. 
"Tho monwntum switl'lwd at th n bngi nn in g of tlw seeo n d hall'." Crnachbaum said. 
Saint Mary's was ahln to !'oren the game i'n to overtinw, hut Scots forward Katey Pmu:ock took over in the nxtra l'ramn. Pnaeock linislwd tlw ganw with 25 points on 7 -of-1 S shooting from tlw liPid. 
"They would snt three scrnens, and she would cut," Cmaehbaum said. "Wn fnlt like w11 were just ehasing her around, and slw seomd a lot of' basknts." 
On a morn positive note for the Belles, four players, Bridget Lipkn, Maunwn Bush, Alison Kessler and Bridgnt Boyen, scored in double l'igurns, with Lipke leading the tnam with 17. Creachbaum pitclwd in night points and nino rebounds. 

Tuesday, January 18th 
7:30-9:30p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 


Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
wenks, as Saint Mary's has Contact Chris Khorcy at 
already played its road gamns ckhorcy@nd.cdu 
MEN'5 BASKETBALL 







Irish can't take wins for granted in Big East 
With the score tied at 14, But Notre Dame also found "They really have nothing to Chris Quinn dribbled into his out that even after it challenged lose. They're just playing," Brey defender and forced a f1oating Syracuse for 26 strong minutes, said. "This is an NCAA tourna­
beating a St. John's team that ment game to them. They're just last year set a record for playing them like there's 12 or lowest conference wins -for 13 left." this Irish squad -was not a But the fact that the Red given. Storm would have stolen this 
In fact, coach Mike Brey said one in the Joyce Center had it his team understood its situa­not been for poor foul shooting tion prior to tip-off. and Chris Thomas' 3-point shot 
"[Our players] are not speaks volumes towards Notre shocked we had to do this to Dame's status as a basketball win," Brey said. "I told them to team. expect to do this to win. We "Part of playing in this league never expected we were going is learning how to win, especial­to peat St. John's by 10 or 12. I ly down the stretch," Quinn don't expect that at any Big said. "I think in our four games East game." for the most part we've done a 
But the Irish should have pretty good job down the expected that against the Red stretch ... it seems like every Storm. Big East game is going to come 
While Notre Dame's being down to those last three br four favored should not demand a minutes." 
Colin Falls, left, chats with Chris Quinn, center and Torin
sound victory alone, the Irish The Irish are 3-1 in the Big 

Francis during Notre Dame's win over St. John's Saturday.

had every opportunity to put a East, a game better than they team away that shot 31 percent were after four conference from the field in the second half games last season. But as a come tournament time." work tomorrow, because a and made 10 of its 22 foul tough schedule looms ahead, It sure does, and playing in league win is a league win. And shots, including 5-of-12 during Notre Dame has not shown con­the Big East undoubtedly pre­we'II take it, man." the final 8:38 of the game. vincing evidence that it is signif­pares teams for the stiff compe­But if Notre Dame cannot 
In that same stretch, Notre icantly better than anybody. tition they will see in the post­hang with teams like Syracuse Dame scored only 12 points and While the Irish swarmed season. In such a difficult con­for the full 40 minutes, the Irish made no two-point field goals Syracuse Monday, the Orange ference, Brey shows strength must take care of teams like St. the remainder of the game. eventually separated them­and leadership as a coach by John's consistently. 
The shot selection is not as selveS' as the better, more com­appreciating a win for what it Otherwise, they should not big of a deal because most of posed team with a 14-0 second is. expect any referees' calls. Even the shots the Irish took half run. Notre Dame could not "I want [our players] to cele­at home. Saturday, as Brey said, were do that to St. John's Saturday. brate," he said. "I don't want The opinions expressed in this good ones. Also, St. John's is "Last year we lost a lot of them to say, 'Oh man, we column are those of the author playing every game like a play­close games, and this year should have won by [so many and not necessarily those of the off due to its ban on postseason we're winning them," Falls points] ... B.S. We will enjoy it, observer. Contact Pat Leonard participation. said. "That makes a tlifference and then we will get back to at pleonard@nd.edu 
The Observer 
is currently accepting applications for the 


Pat Leonard 
Sports Writer 


Monday, January 17, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

A Townhall Discussion to celebrate The Life and Ministry of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 
Please join us for a campus-wide discussion on politics, social justice, race and other topics that affect our Notre Dame community and the world. 
Facilitated by: Dr. Richard Pierce, History Department, and MLK Committee Members Colleen Case and Melissa Hentges 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DR. MARTIN LUTIIER KING, JR. HOLIDAY CELEBRATION TUESDAY, JANUARY 18: TOWN HALL MEETING 7:00-8:00 PM COLEMAN-MORSE CENTER 
-
Monday, January 17, 2005

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 

Blowout 
continued from page 24 
I think we've had all year long." 

Notre Dame (14-3) and Purdue (10-6) went back and forth for the first 11 minutes, with eight lead changes. But with 8:57 to play in the half and Purdue up 27-24, the Irish came out firing. 
Powered by outstanding shoot­ing and rebounding, the Irish went on a 19-7 run to go ahead 44-32 with 3:10 to play in the half. 
The Irish closed the first half on a 7-0 run to extend the lead to 54-38 at halftime. 
Point guard Megan Duffy was 3-for-3 from behind the arc in the first half, en route to 17 first half points. 
"I felt good out there," said Dully, who finished with 19 points and six assist'>. 
Early in the second half, Notre Dame maintained its lead, carry­ing a 60-45 advantage after just under four minutes of play. But Purdue fought back, going on a 6­2 run to cut the Notre Dame lead to 11 with 14:35 to play. 
After a Notre Dame timeout, the Irish scored six straight points to extend the lead to 68-51 behind points from Dufly, Teresa Borton and Tulyah Gaines and four rebounds from Batteast, who showed no ill effects of an ankle injury suffered Wednesday night. 
Purdue never got closer than 13 points, and Notre Dame cleared its bench with two min­utes to play, securing the first win over the Boilermakers since the 2001 National Championship game in which Notre Dame defeated 68-66 Purdue for the NCAA title. 
"We just wanted to come out and show them that they're not going to do anything that we don't want them to do in our house," said Batteast, who also had three blocks. 
Notre Dame gave up 69 points, well above its season-average of 56.9, but the Irish defense was key to the game, according to McGraw. 
"We played with tremendous intensity at the defensive end and really did some great things," McGraw said. 
Notre Dame had six steals, and Purdue turned the ball over 21 times, with the Irish converting them to 29 points. Notes: 
+ 
Borton has shot 23-31 from the field in the last four games good for 7 4 percent. 

+ 
Batteast's double-double (21 points, 11 rebounds) was her fourth of the season and 36th of her career. Sunday's numbers tied her with Ruth Riley for sec­ond on the all-time list of most double-doubles for Notre Dame. 


NOTRE DAME 86, PURDUE 69 at the JOYCE CENTER 

NOTRE DAME (14-3) 
Batteast 7-17 6-7 21, Erwin 2-4 0-0 4. Borton 8-1 2-3 18, Duffy 4-7 8-8 19, Gray 2-5 0-0 5. Gaines 3-41-2 7. Allen 2-10 3-4 8, Powers 0-0 0-0 0, D'Amico 0-2 0-0 0, Tsipis 0-0 0-0 0, LaVere 2-2 0-0 4. 
PURDUE (10-6) 
Wisdom-IIylton 4-7 1-1 10, Lawless 6-8 1­
2 16. Heikes 4-8 2-2 10. Gearlds 5-15 4-4 
14. Pollack 2-4 0-0 4. Bogdanova 1-1 0-0 
2. Traore 0-1 1-2 1, Mays 0-2 0-0 0, Jackson 4-11 0-0 10. Duncan 0-1 2-2 2. 
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME 54  32  86  
Purdue  38  31  69  

3-point goals: Notre Dame 6-8 (Du!Ty 3-4. Batteast 1-2, Gray 1-1, Allen 1-1). Purdue 6-17 (Lawless 3-3, Gearlds 0-5, Wisdom­llylton 1-2, Jackson 2-6, Traore 0-1). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 14-36 (Batteast 111. Purdue 11-31 (Heikes 9). Assists: Notre Dame 22 (Duffy 61, Purdue 19 (Pollack 7). Total fouls: Notre Dame 19. Purdue 22. 
ND WoMEN's BASKETBALL 
Win over Purdue gives Irish confidence 
Few 13-3, top-10 teams ever have must-win games in January against a non-conference opponent. 
But that's where Irish coach Muffet McGraw thought her team was, heading 
into a matchup against No. 20 Purdue on Sunday. 
In its two previous games, Notre Dame played sloppy, inconsis­tent and downright ugly basketball in consecu­tive losses to Villanova and Connecticut. They looked like an NIT-cal­iber team, not a squad that won 13 of its first 

Sports Writer 
14 games. 

After the defeats, McGraw believed her team was at a pos­sible turning point in the season. With several talented opponents waiting on the schedule in the near future, the long­time coach knew the Irish needed a win. 
After 40 dominating minutes of basket­ball, Notre Dame delivered just that-in the form of an 86-69 crushing of Purdue. 
"It's a huge shot of confidence for us," McGraw said. "We really needed a win tonight. I thought our season was kind of on the brink of going either way at this point. We started off so well and we needed to keep it going. This game gives us the confidence we need." 
And just like that, the Irish are back playing well in all aspects of the game. Their intensity is back. Their aggressive play is back. And, most importantly, their swagger is back. 
All those characteristics -characteris­tics that made this team one of the best in the nation during the early stretch of the season-led Notre Dame back were it should be Sunday-in the win col­umn. 
Up until last week, Notre Dame looked like a lock to cruise into the NCAA tour­nament in March with a No. 1 or No. 2 seed in the bag after playing impressive­ly through 14 games. They drained every big shot, grabbed every crucial rebound and made every key defensive stand. If one player had a rough night, someone else picked up the slack. When the game was close in the waning minutes, Notre Dame played fearless. 
Simply put, the Irish could do no wrong. 
Then came the Villanova and Connecticut games. The Irish were pushed around and didn't make the plays down the stretch to beat Villanova, then watched helplessly as a four-loss Connecticut team smoked them at home. 
Suddenly, the intensity, the confidence 
TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer Irish guard Megan Duffy looks to pass the ball in Notre Dame's 86-69 win over Purdue Sunday. Duffy scored 17 points in the first half of her team's victory. 
and the swagger were gone. In their place was a team searching for answers. 
But just as quickly as Notre Dame had lost its confidence, they found it again by blowing out their intrastate rival. They went back to playing Notre Dame basket­ball. They hustled on defense and spread the ball around on offense. Megan Duffy played superbly at the point, scoring 17 first-half points, while Jacqueline Batteast had a typical evening-21 points, 11 rebounds and five assists. Teresa Borton added 18 and the rest of the team contributed with solid nights as the Irish pulled away midway through the first half. 
"Coming off two losses we were angry more than anything," Duffy said. "I think confidence was down a little bit but it was more so the fact that we needed a win and it was nice we got it against Purdue. We just focused on whatever it takes to get a win that's what we have to do and we did that tonight." 
The Irish are in the midst of likely their toughest stretch of games this season. The team has road contests against Syracuse and Connecticut and Rutgers and Boston College at home in four of its next five games. This is when Notre Dame needs to begin playing its best bas­ketball as the schedule turns over into February. 
It looked like the Irish would be falling during this stretch, not rising after the two losses in conference. But McGraw believed her team had the ability and toughness to overcome some mid-season adversity. She believed this team would­n't fold when faced with challenges. She believed her team would overcome the obstacles in its way. 
Sunday against a ranked Purdue team, McGraw's players proved her right. 
"We just really came out fighting and I think that's how you tell the character of your team -how they respond after a loss," McGraw said. "I thought we responded really well." 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessar­ily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Joe Hettler atjhettler@nd.edu 

l.qfqna«lim« Scs.siu fer ll•c Uuiwrsit)l qfNottt Dsmc's llfl('ffl!!tjou;tl Shldy Pr"#r.:~ms 
Study"' ;.\broad This Sun'lrner! E,a..rn ND credit in: Dublin, Ireland Toledo, Spain 

Plus, ne\-v this sun1.mer: Berlin.., Germany Rome, Italy Puebla, Mexico (ND EG courses offered!) Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
vVednesday, January 19. 2005 5:30pm 129 DeBartolo Han 


APP'LJCATtON DEADUNE IS MARCH 1,. 2005
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Monday, January 17, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 

THEATRE 

Late Nite Catechism 2 

Presented by the Broadway Theatre league Decio Moinstage Theatre 
This sequel to the hit comedy Late Night Catechism explores the concept of Catholic guilt through the character of "Sister," on old-school nun who accepts no excuses and tokes no prisoners. 
Wednesday, January 19 at 7 p.m. Thursday, January 20 at 7 p.m. Friday, January 21 at 8 p.m. Saturday, January 22 at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. Sunday, January 23 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. 
Tickets: $30, $27 seniors, $15 all students 

Les Fourberies de Scapin 
by Moliere Philban Studio Theatre 

Thursday, January 27 at 7:30p.m. Friday, January 28 at 7:30p.m. Saturday, January 29 at 7:30 p.m. 
Tickets: $8, $7 faculty/staff, $6 seniors, $5 all students 
M U S c 


John Blacklow Recital 

A NOTRE DAME FACULTY PERFORMANCE 
leighton Concert Hall Wednesday, January 19 at 8 p.m. Tickets $10, $8 faculty/staff, $6 seniors, 
$3 all students 


Organist Craig Cramer 

A NOTRE DAME FACULTY PERFORMANCE 
Opening Recitals on the Fritts Organ 
Reyes Organ and Choral Hall Thursday, January 20 at 8 p.m Friday, January 21 at 8 p.m. Saturday, January 22 at 8 p.m Sunday, January 23 at 4 p.m. Tuesday, January 25 at 8 p.m. 

These performances are open to the public and free, but tickets must be obtained through the DeBartolo Box Office. 

The Marian Anderson String Quartet 
Presented by the Fischoff National Chamber Music Association Decio Mainstage Theatre Thursday, January 27 at 7:30p.m. 
These performances are open to the public and free, but tickets must be obtained through the DeBartolo Box Office. 

Othello 

by William Shak,9speare 
Featuring AcTORS FRoM THE LoNDON STAGE 
Leighton Concert Hall 
Friday, February 11 at 7:30p.m. 
Saturday, February 12 at 7:30p.m. 
Tickets: $18, $16 faculty/staff, $16 seniors, $1 2 all students 

The Laramie Proiect 
by Moises Kaufman Directed by Anton Juan Decio Mainstage Theatre 
Tuesday, February 22 at 7:30p.m. Wednesday, February 23 at 7:30 p.m. Thursday, February 24 at 7:30p.m. Friday, February :25 at 7:30p.m. Saturday, February 26 at 7:30p.m. Sunday, February 27 at 2:30 p.m. matinee Tuesday, March 1 at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday, March 2 at 7:30p.m. Thursday, March .3 at 7:30p.m. 
The Laramie Proiect is part of Spring ArtsFesl: Ti.>lerance and Reconciliation 
Tickets: $12, $10 faculty/staff, $10 seniors, $8 all students 
I 


For mor~ information about 
I 

these events or to see what 
is scheduled for the rest of 
the s+ester, please visit 
http://p~rformingorts.nd.edu. 
! 

For fick~ts to these events, 
' 

please cpll the Ticket Office 


of S74.631.2800. 
Dead Man Walking 
by Tim Robbins Philban Studio Theatre 
Saturday, February 26 at 7:30p.m. Sunday, February 27 at 2:30 p.m. matinee Tuesday, March 1 at 7:30p.m. Wednesday, March 2 at 7:30p.m. 
Tickets: $12, $10 faculty/staff, $10 seniors, $8 all students 
Arcadia 
by Tom Stoppard Directed by Holger Teschke Decio Mainstage Theatre 
Tuesday, April 12 at 7:30 p.m. Wednesday, April 13 at 7:30p.m. Thursday, April 14 at 7:30p.m. Friday, April 15 at 7:30p.m. Saturday, April 16 at 7:30p.m. Sunday, April 17 at 2:30 p.m. matinee Tuesday, April 19 at 7:30p.m. Wednesday, April20 al7:30 p.m. Thursday, April21 at 7:30p.m. Friday, April 22 at 7:30p.m. Saturday, April 23 at 7:30 p.m. 
Tickets: $12, $10 faculty/staff, $1 0 seniors, $8 all students 
F l M 
BROWNING CINEMA Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, 
$4 seniors, $3 all student 
Tickets go on sale each Monday before the screenings. 
Notre Dame Student Film Festival 
Thursday, January 20 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. Friday, January 21 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. Saturday, January 22 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. Monday, January 24 at 7 p.m. and 10. p.m. Tuesday, January 25 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. Wednesday, January 26 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
81/2 
Directed by Federico Fellini Saturday, January 22 at 3 p.m. PAC Classic 100 
One of the greatest films about film ever made, Federico Fellini's 8 0 (Otto e Mezzo) turns one man's artistic crisis into a grand epic of the cinema. Guido Anselmi (Marcello Mastroianni) is a director whose film-and life-is collapsing around him. An early working title for the film was La Bella Confusione (The Beautiful Confusion), and Fellini's masterpiece is exactly that: a shimmering dream, a circus, and a magic act. 

More event information available at http://performingarts.nd.edu 
Call 574.631.2800 for tickets and more information 
Discounted tickets are underwritten by the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. There are a limited number of student discounts available. 

~-~-~ 


OUND THE NATION 
page 20 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S w1 RE SERVICES Monday, January 17, 2005 
NFL

Men's Swimming & Diving CSCAA Top 25 
team  points  
1  Stanford  200  
2  Florida  190  
3  Auburn  184  
4  California  170  
5  Arizona  164  
6  Southern Cal  163  
7  Minnesota  156  
8  Michigan  149  
9  Texas  136  
10 11  Virginia Kentucky  127 118  
12 13  Georgia Indiana  108 105  
14  Northwestern  96  
15  Tennessee  90  
16  Purdue  78  
17  Wisconsin  67  
18  Texas A&M  60  
19  North Carolina  53  
20  BYU  48  
21  NOTRE DAME  36  
22  Hawaii  34  
23  Florida State  25  
24  Ohio State  11  
24  Alabama  11  

Women's Swimming & Diving CSCAA Top 25 
team points 
1 Georgia 175 
2 Auburn 168 
3 Florida 159 
4 Arizona 156 
5 Texas 146 
6 SMU 141 
7 California 133 
8 Stanford 124 
9 Wisconsin 118 
10 TexasA&M 115 
11 UCLA 104 
12 Maryland 96 
13 Michigan 89 
14 Penn State 83 
15 North Carolina 74 
15 Virginia 74 
17 Arizona State 64 
111 Southern Cal 56 
19 Purdue 46 
20 Hawaii 45 
21 Florida Slate 28 
21 NOTRE DAME 28 
22 Northwestern 20 
24 Indiana 8 
24 Washington 6 

Central College Hockey Association 
team CCHA overall 
Michigan 15·1-0 18·5-1 Ohio State 12~3~1 15-6-3 Nebraska-Omaha 9-J.2 11·9-2 Northern Michigan 8-5-3 10·7-5 Bowling Green 7~5-2 10·7-3 Lake Superior 6-6-2 7-12-3 Michigan State 7-9-0 12•114 Alaska Fairbanks 5-10-1 6-11-1 Ferris State 4-9·3 9·12·3 Miami (Ohio) 4-9-3 8-12-4 Western Michigan 5-10·1 18-11-1 NOTRE DAME 3-11-4 5·13·5 
around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Connecticut at Seton Hall, 7 p.m., ESPN Oklahoma State at Texas, 9 p.m., ESPN 
WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Texas at Connecticut, 5 p.m., ESPN2 
TENNIS 2005 Australian Open, 2 p.m., ESPN2 

Associated Press 

PIIILADELPI-IIA -In the Eagles' first meaningful game in nearly a month, the back-ups played like regulars and the support­ing cast picked up the slack. Philadelphia wasn't rusty at all in making its fourth straight NFC cham­pionship game with a 27­14 romp Sunday over the self-destructing Minnesota Vikings. 
Mitchell was the headlin­er. He more than filled in for All-Pro wide receiver and glamour guy Terrell Owens, who watched from a luxury box while nursing an injured ankle. He scored two touchdowns, and wasn't a bit shy about congratulating himself for playing the part of team celebrity. 
'Tm a special player," he said, wearing an Indiana Jones hat and bow tie. "I've just got to thank my hands for being so great. I've just been chillin' being patient, being humble. I knew my time was going to come." 
The bigger question: Has the Eagles' Super Bowl time finally come? 
Philadelphia, which has lost three consecutive con­ference title games, the last two at home, hosts Atlanta next Sunday. 
offootball is incredible."
Associated Press 
Manning's quarterback­
FOXBOHO, Mass. -The ing brilliance was neutral­New England Patriots kept ized as usual by Bill the ball away from Peyton Belichick's punishing Manning most of the game defense and the Colts' and shut him down when Super Bowl aspirations he had it. ended yet again on this 
For the second year in a snowy New England field. row, the Pats made the Manning is now 0-7 in league's MVP look ordi­Foxboro. Brady is 7-0 in nary and his Indianapolis the postseason. teammates inept, this time For the defending cham­beating them 20-3 Sunday pions, one more win in behind Corey Dillon's 144 Pittsburgh and it's on to yards rushing. Jacksonville, Fla., for their 
"I think our defense is third Super Bowl trip in what made this game suc­four years. cessful," Patriots quarter­Tedy Bruschi, Willie back Tom Brady said. McGinest and Bill Beli­"Three points to one of the chick's defense spent the best offenses in the history day frustrating Manning. 
IN BRIEF 

Kwan makes history, wins Tenley Albright and Peggy Fleming­Bobby Hernandez said. ninth title they all won multiple titles, but none "The officer was literally fighting 
POHTLAND, Ore.-Michelle Kwan came close to Vinson. for his life, trying to get Mr. Hobbins held up nine fingers and grinned at But it's somehow fitting that Kwan from getting his gun. That's when the the camera. She has her place in his­was the one to finally reach the pin­shots rang out," Hernandez said. tory, a run as impressive for its nacle. Her former coach, Frank Hobbins, 31, was confronted in a longevity as its dominance. Carroll, trained with Vinson, and second-floor office in a building that 
Kwan won her ninth title at the Carroll would often tell Kwan stories also houses a nightclub, gym and 
U.S. Figure Skating Championships about Vinson and the lessons she'd jewelry store. He was considered a on Saturday night, tying Maribel taught him. burglary suspect, though no charges Vinson for the all-time record. She Former Raiders center shot had been filed, Hernandez said. earned four more 6.0s, giving her 42 by police officer "We just have to figure out what he at nationals in an illustrious career MIAMI BEACH. Fla. -Former was doing there," Hernandez said. 
that began more than a decade ago Oakland Raiders center Barret Hernandez said authorities had not been able to interview Hobbins, but
when she was too young to wear Robbins was shot and critically 
that the former offensive linemanmakeup. wounded during a struggle with a was expected to face a charge of bat­Now 24, Kwan is as dominant as police officer investigating a burglary tery on a police ol'ficer. Hernandez ever, with no one in the United States at a South Beach office building. 

also said police were trying to deter­

coming close to challenging her. Hobbins, a former All-Pro known mine whether he would face tres­
"Nine incredible national champi­best for going AWOL during the 2003 passing or burglary charges. onships," Kwan said, looking stunned Super Bowl and other erratic behav­Detective Mike Muley, who fired the at the magnitude of what she's done. ior, was hospitalized in critical condi­shots, had minor head injuries from "I don't know, every one is so differ­tion. the scuffle and was treated at a hos­ent and unique." Hobbins was shot several times in pital and released. 
Vinson won nine titles in the 1920s the torso during a "violent struggle" Hobbins was taken to Hyder and 1930s, a mark that once seemed with a Miami Beach detective Trauma Center at Jackson Memorial certain to starid. Gretchen Merrill, Saturday night, police spokesman Hospital. 
Monday, January 17, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 


RICHARD FRIEDMANffhe Observer 

Irish guard Chris Quinn brings the ball up court against St. John's during Notre Dame's 67-66 win over the Red Storm. 
Tuck 
continued from page 24 
sideration many faetors when dneiding whothor or not to enter the draft, indud­ing how high lw would ho dral'led. lin said Sunday night that he exiHH'.ts to go latn first-round or early see­on d round who n tlw draft approaches. 
" A n y ti nw y o u h a v o an opportunity liko this ono, it's an opportunity that fnw pno­pln get," Tuck said Sunday night on the show. "There's really no guarantees going out or coming baek hut I did my research and I feel like it's the best decision for me and my family." 
Tuek said the coaching change didn't play a large role in his decision to turn pro. 
"Anytime you have a eoaching change of that magnitude it will affect a decision, but the new staff really reaehnd out to me," Tuek said on tho show. "I know this staff is going to be a great staff so it didn't real­ly have that much of an effect." 
After having off-season knee surgery, Tuck saw his numbers dl)erease this year. 
lie recorded 73 tackles in 
2003, ineluding 1!J tackles for a loss. However, this sea­son, facing constant double teams, Tuck registered just 4 7 tackles, including 14 for a 
loss  and  six  sacks  in  11  
games.  
lie  sat  out  the  Dec.  28  

Insight Bowl nut·sing a sore knee. 
This season, despite the deeline in his numbers, Tuck was named Notre Dame's Most Valuable Player. 
"I just want to rpflect baek on all the good things," he said on the show. "My time here has been great." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Squeaker 
continued from page 24 
before," Thomas said. "When they told me I had a eoneussion and said I would­n't be playing the rest of the game, I think that's what hurt me more than not knowing where I was." 
On the last possession of the first half, Thomas was guard­ing the Hod Storm's Darius 
llill who went  long  on  the  
inbounds play. Thomas  ran  
straight into a  pick from  Hod  

Storm forward Lamont Hamilton. 
Needing help to get to the locker room, Thomas' condi­tion became the hot topic. 
The coae hi ng staff heard from team physician Dr. Jim Moriarty that it was doubtful Thomas would return to the shooting on :{-pointers, and Hamilton who had 17. But in the second hall', and specifi­cally down tho stretch, St. John's free throw shooting prevented them from pulling the upset. 
The Hod Storm made I0-of'­20 free throws af'ter hall'linw, and only 1-of-4 in tho last minute. That gave the Irish a coupln of' ehancns down tho stretch. 
Do~n (J!i-(14 with just und!H' a minutn rnmaining, Thomas found a widn-open Falls. Known for hitting big-time shots, Falls' attempt Wl'nt around thn rim and out. 
"I thought wn had a groat look with Colin, it just didn't fall for us so I knew wn wm·n going to got an opportunity coming back," Thomas said. 
Aftnr llill split two free throws, Thomas brought tlw ball down court. lin dribbled 


lnfortnation Session 
for those interested in the position of 
Assistant Rector 
for University Residence Halls 
Tuesday, January 11, 7:30-8:30 p.m. Recker's Hospitality Room 
OR 

Wednesday, January 19, 7:30-8:~~0 p.m. Recker's Hospitality Room 
Ligl1t re/Tes/JnJeiJts served 
For further information v:isit http:/I osa.nd.edu/ 
game. 
''I'm surprised he played lal'terl the way he lookod at halftime," Irish coach Mike Broy said. "We went into t.he second half thinking he wouldn't be back." 
When Thomas got the same message, even boing groggy, he didn't like what he heard. 
"When he told me I wasn't going to play, I was likn, 'Are you serious? This is Big East, my senior year,"' Thomas said. When I first carne in I was nauseated. My feet worn heavy and my head was light. I couldn't even walk into the locker room with<)ut escorts. When they told me I eouldn't play, that's when you put everything. els<;, aside and make a saenfice. 
Sporting a q uarter-siz1HI bump on tho loft side of his forehead, Thomas !ward from Moriarty he had to wail 20 minutes before heading baek to the court. Thomas watched the beginning of' the soeond half' in tho locker room while listening to the announcer and Joyce Contor <:rowel. 
Then Thomas went down to Tho Pit, ran some suicide sprints, and after talking with Moriarty some more, got clearanee to return to the game and chocked in with 
11:36 remaining. 
"Yeah, lthe second hall'l was clear to me, but I still have a serious headache," Thomas said. "You just fool light and carefree. I just wasn't getting into the hype of the game until it really hit me with 3 minutes loft." 
Tho game staynd closn because of thn play of llill who led the Hod Storm with 30 points, ineluding !i-of'-6 
.to the right, loohd at Torin 
Francis who was battling for 
position on the blocks, but 
Thomas used a shot fake and 
pass fake on llill who slipped 
and lef't Thomas with a wide­
open look at tho game-winner. 
"You know what, the next person that I see out tlwre who has something negative to say about Chris Thomas, I going to say, 'Wateh this gamn, to watch this shot,"' Irish senior .Jordan Cornnttn said. "I think that in a nut­shell tells you what kind of guy hn is. Any naysay<)rs out there are crazy because he~ one of thn best guys J'vn bn1m on the court with. 
"Whnn Ito took that. shot, I don't know if' you knnw, but I knnw it was going down." 
NOTHE DAME 67. ST. JOliN'S 66 at the JOYCE CENTEH 
NOTHE nAME ( tt-:i, :i-1 I 
Cornntln :1-10 0-0 1), Fmncis 2-') S-lo, 9, Thomas :~-1 0 :l-4 I I, l)uinn S-12 1-1 13, Falls 7-11• :1-:~ 2:1. lsrnal 0-2 0-0 0. l.alimorn 0-4 0-0 0, Cartl'r 1-2 0-0 2. 
ST. JOliN'S (6-7, 0-:i) 
llamilton 7-I h :l-fo 17, IIill 11-21 :J.(o 30, l.awrPneP 1-4 0-2 2 . .laekson 0-1 0­2 0, (;ray 1-4 0-0 2. Misst,rl' 3-:! 1-2 7, 
Williams 2-S :~-4  S.  
NOTHE llAME St. .John's  lsi 35 :lh  2nd 'lhlul :!2 h7 :~o hh  

:!-point goals: Notn• llamP J:!-:!4 !Falls h­13, CornPUt• 3-'). l)uinn 2-S, Thom1L~ 2-h, Cartt•r 0-1 ), St. John's (11ill S-h, Williams 1-3, l.awrnnen o-:l. .lat·.kson 0-1 J. Fnull'll out: NnnP. IIPhnunds: NntrP )lamP 41 !Franeis 'll. St. .John's !Williams 101. Assists: Notrn llunw 17 ICorndtn, Thomas. <)uinn 41. Si. .John's (l.awrnrll~n 6). 'lhtul l'ouls: Notrn llamn 17, St. .John's 
16. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

....------------------­
~-~ 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 17, 2005 

Illinois 

continued from page 24 
next day, she shattered the pool record with a 3-meter div­ing score of 576.05 points in 11 dives. Her score was more than 25 points better than the previ­ous mark, and had been the only pool record that she did not own. 
"She's done a great job for us all year," Weathers said. 
The Irish diver is now 8-0 in 2004-05, and the win extended her dual-meet winning streak to 21 in a row, dating back to 2001. 
The meet featured both Illinois and the No.13-ranked Michigan teams, but the Irish were only scored against the lllini. 
Friday's session began with Illinois jumping out to a quick lead, but the Irish swimmers roared right back as the night progressed. 
The Irish charge was led by Carroll and freshman Kellx Battle, who finished second ani:! third in the 200-yard individual medley. Notre Dame took over the lead on the final event of the day, as the team of Caroline Johnson, Carroll, Jessica Stephens and Ellen Johnson posted a time of 3:51.90 in the 400-yard medley relay. 
The Saturday morning session was highlighted by a few unlike­ly marks posted by the Irish. Carroll took second in the 400­yard medley despite it being only the second time she swam ceptions. 
He documented his experi­ences as a Division I recruit in the form of a diary for his local newspaper. 
He chose the Irish over Georgia Tech and Maryland 
Yes 
continued from page 24 

Irisheyes.com. "I saw that Notre Dame degree and I knew I could do something with that after football." 
Hord is the 12th verbal commitment to Notre Dame this year and the second commitment the Irish received in the last week after safety Ray Herring ver­bally committed to the Irish on Wednesday. Notre Dame's recruiting class is currently rated 24th nationally by Scout.com. 
Hord, from Kansas City, caught 36 passes for 560 yards and six touchdowns his senior year at Rockhurst High School. As a junior he tallied 600 receiving yards and 10 scores. 
But Hord's speed and quickness is what makes him 
after an emotional visit to the Notre Dame campus. 
"They pla­yed an ama­zing video about Notre Dame, the traditions, the athlet­ics, the peo­ple, just a 
"/ was impressed with 
and other how much they care members or the new staff
about you as a student 
alleviated any
as well as an athlete." 
other worries that Herring Ray Herring might have had.
Irish verbal 
really inspiring video that got my attention," Herring said in "Florida Today." "I don't know why but I even got a little choked up." 
Named to the all-state team every year in high school and carrying a 3.7 
the event this year. In the 100-yard butterfly 

Junior Christel Bouvron finished  the 10th-rated  
just .09 seconds behind Illinois'  wide  receiver  
Christina Brunka, despite bat­ prospect in the  
tling an illness that caused her  nation  by  
to scratch out of a1l other races.  Scout.com.  He  
The Irish began the final ses­ has  run  the  
sion strongly, as senior co-cap­ 100-meter dash  
tain Kelli Barton and sophomore  in  10.39  sec­ 
Abby Strang took third and  onds and has  a  
fourth place respectively in the  35-inch vertical  
first  event,  the  1,650-yard  leap.  
freestyle.  ''I'm tall and  
Despite a strong showing from  have  good  
senior Kristen Peterson and  speed," 1-lord,  

"/ saw that Notre Dame degree and knew I could do something with that after football. " 
D.J. Hord Irish verbal 
GPA, Herring thinks he will be able to han­dle the athletic and academic pressures at Notre Dame. 
"I was impressed with how much they care about you as a student as well as an ath­lete," Herring team. Brown went on to become a first-round draft pick of the New York Giants. 
After Tyrone Willingham was fired on Nov. 30, Herring's interest in playing for the Irish wavered. But talking with Irish coach Charlie Weis 
"I love 
[Weis'] atti­
tude and the way he expresses himself," Herring said in "Florida Today." "He isn't cocky but he has real confidence in what he says. 
"I knew he was a coach I co~.ld see myself playing for. 
llord also felt Weis made a good impression during his campus visit the weekend of Jan. 7-8. 
"Before the visit I really didn't know who the coaches were," Hord said to Irisheyes.com. "After talking to coach Weis face to face, that was a big thing for me on the visit." 
Herring is rated 48th at his safety spot by Scout.com and Rivals.com lists him as the 57th best player in Florida at any position. 
But recruiting rankings are only predictions and the two recruits are both eager to live up to the hype. 
"Everybody is sta.rting all over since it's a new sys­tem," Hord said to Irisheyes.com. "I think I can come in and make something happen." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
sophomores Ellen Johnson and Ann Barton in the 200 back­stroke, the Irish found them­selves down by 14 points with only two events remaining. 
Excellent times from Carroll and senior Brooke Taylor in the 200-yard butterfly brought the Irish to within three points of the Illini, setting the stage for the final relay. 
"I was slightly nervous, we were all a little nervous, but we all knew we could win the meet," Grove said. "We knew how important it was for the seniors." 
"We haven't had a meet that came down to the last relay in several years," Weathers said. "I think it's a really good experi­who is listed at 6-foot-1, 190-pounds, said to Irisheyes.com. ''I'm a finesse and flashy type of player." 

Herring, from Melbourne, Fla., is a three-star prospect according to Scout.com. He made 76 tackles and nine interceptions his senior year and recorded 401 tackles and 25 interceptions during his career at Holy Trinity Episcopal School. 
Herring ranks seventh in state history in career inter-
said in "Florida Today." "I like the fact that they have a 99 percent graduation rate among their football play­ers." 
Herring is only the second player from Melbourne to accept a scholarship offer from Notre Dame. 
The other, tight end Derrick Brown from Merritt Island Prep, signed with the Irish in 1988 and was a freshman on Notre Dame's last national championship 
ence for us. It's a confidence 
Open House for
builder." 
The Notre Dame women swimmers are o!T until Jan. 28, 

2005-06 School Year 
when they travel to Michigan to 

at the Early Childhood Development
take on the No. 13 Wolverines. 

Center at Saint Mary's College Contact Mike Tennant at mtennant@nd.edu 
Come and see our program and meet the ECDC-SMC 
Saint Mary's College 32nd Annual 
EUROPEAN SUMMER STUDY TOUR 
Travels in Ireland, Scotland, England and France 
INFORMATION SESSION WEDNESDAY JANUARY 19 
6:30 p.m. Science Hall 286 
May 18 to June 15, 2005 Courses offered in Art, Biology, and Psychology For further information contact: Prof. Tom Parisi 284-4529;4534 Madeleva 152 E-mail: tparisi@saintmarys.edu 
teachers: 

Sun., Jan. 23, 2005 ....... 2:00-4:00p.m. 
Sun., Feb. 20, 2005 ....... 2:00-4:00p.m. 
Sun., March 20, 2005 ....... 2:00-4:00 p.m. 
ECDC-SMC offers four preschool programs: 3's, 3/4's, 4's and 4/5's. Full Time and Part Time 
enrollment schedules are available. 
Did you know that ECDC-SMC has degreed early childhood teachers; is NAEYC accredited program; enrichment programs include dance, gymnastics, and Spanish; college students in training; multicultural environment; family involvement 
opportunities; a summer day camp for children 
ages 3 through 9. 
For more information, please call 284-4693 or 
kalford@saintmarys.edu 

~-­

Monday, January 17, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
HEY, DILBERT, CAN 
YOU UPDATE THE 
YIELD NUMBERS FOR 
OUR DISCONTINUED 
CHIPS? 


PEANUTS 
~~~._~--~~~--~ 
SCOTT ADAMS 
CONSIDER MY CRAZY I GUESS GLARE . I'LL START 
BEING USELESS. 

CHARLES SCHULZ 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
CEEPI 
rJ 
1 
ITANGOU 
j 
THIS C.AN WRL. 
YOUR HAIR AT A
rJ r 
www.jumble.com 
~E:AUTY ?AL.ON. 
HINSAB ± 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
I I ( J I
...___.__....___,~""-'-'~"----' suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print arlSW2r here: 
[XIIIIJ
(Answers tomorrow) 
Saturday's I Jumbles: OXIDE CEASE PURVEY DEVOUR Answer: What the photographer feared when she shopped for a swimsuit-OVEREXPOSURE 
E 
~ 
g 
@) 
,.. ~ 
~ 
~ 
E 
0 
(,) 
t:: 
Gl 
.c 
WELL, IF I HAVE TO CHOOSE BETWEEN BEING RUDE AND DOING SOMETHING 
USELESS ... 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Not completely dissolved, as a

Beginner drink mix5 Ceiling support 38 Online auction9 Brass houseinstruments 39 Collect
14 Crowd noise 41 "Dear" letter
15 The Bruins of recipient
the Pac Ten 42 Guitar bars
16 Take by force 43 Pickle flavoring
17 Just twiddling one's thumbs 44 Copier of a manuscript
18 Diagram 46 Wide shoe
19 Juliet's beloved specification20 Navel 47 Mama Cass
23 Louisville Slugger 
49 Dirties

24 French president's 51 TV host Winfrey 
residence 
53 Shines 25 Critical 57 F.B.I. employee: 27 "Oh my Abbr. goodnessI" 
59 The Midwest. 30 Hippie agriculturally 
happening speaking 33 One of the 62 Bar mitzvah Bushes officiator 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

64 Fitzgerald of scat 65 It ebbs and flows 66 Approximately 67 "Whatcha ?" 68 Dublin's land, in poetry 69 School readings 70 Gulp from a bottle 71 Mexican sandwich DOWN 1 Arapaho or Apache 2 Alpine song 3 Come from 
behind 4 Ultimatum words 5 Hobgoblin 
6 Off-white 7 Landed (on) 8 Fox comedy 
series 9 Seek help from 10 Bob Hope tour 
grp. 11 Big stinger 12 _code (long­
distance need) 13 Parking place 21 Safecrackers 22 Slick 26 Profess 28 Frisbee, e.g. 29 Mixes 31 "Must've been 
something _" 32 Nasdaq rival 33 Green gem 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

34 Silents star 48 Satellite paths 57 Smell _(be Jannings leery)
50 Last six lines of 
35 Vote depository 

a sonnet 58 Kotter of 37 Threesome "Welcome Back,
52 Obeys
40 Lingerie item Kotter'' 
54 Director42 Guy 
60 Strike blow 44 Christmas tree 
Kurosawa 
55 Doc 61 552, in oldtopper Rome
45 Cosmic 56 Meetin9 explosion transcriber 63 Except 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords . 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS HAY: Mason Gamble. 19: Kate Moss, 31: Dehhie Allen, 55: John Carpenter. 57 
Happy Birthday: You can fool just ahout anyone with your ability to sympathize this year. You are very capahle of doing just about anything hy yourself. It will he group effort that counts this year, so prepare to he putient, a teacher and a team player. Your numbers arc 10, 14. 19, 22, 38,46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Do your hestand acquire success. Whoever is 
causing you a problem will he shown up once and for all. Progressive ami positive 
action will he your hcst recourse. *** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may have trouble with authority figures if 
you haven't done everything hy the hook. Educational pursuits may he interesting 
hut may also set you hack linancially. *** 
GEMINI (May 21-.lunc 20): If someone wants to set you up for a business or 
personal meeting, you must anend. Something good will unfold that can result 
in making money. Don't pick up the tah or donate. **** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may no! realize what someone expects of you. Ask questions and demand answers. You may not like what you hear. hut at least you'll know where you stand.** LEO (July 23-Au~. 22): You're the boss today, so act like one. The power plays you make will only make you more altractive to onlookers, especially if you manage to make headway at the same time. ***** VIRGO (Au~. 23-Sept. 22): Someone may he waiting for a chance to catch you off guard and ask you for a contribution. Be prepared to say no. Do something nice for yourself: you deserve it. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Today is all about relationships and how you handle the peopl6 around you. As tough as it might get, remain consistent or you may end up looking foolish and losing control. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Put your energy into what you enjoy doing the most. It could turn into something lucrative as well. You should he following your heart and doing your own thing. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Today is about you and your friends and doing things that will make you feel good ahout yourself. Love is in a high cycle, so prepare to romance someone special. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): What you think and do may not thrill someone who means a lot to you. Explain your actions or compromise so that you can keep the peace. Gossip may cause a problem. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): Join in and discuss all the ideas you have with a friend you trust. A short trip will prove interesting and infonnative. Put your plans in motion. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may he considering changing your occupation or looking for something new to do with your time. Be careful that someone doesn't mislead you or take advantage of you. *** 
Hirthday Baby: You aren't afraid, nor will you hack down. You will try anything once and will not give up when others walk away. You arc strong, steadfast and courageous. 
Check 0111 Euxenia's Web sires ar asrroadvice.com and eufit'llia/a.l'f.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
-
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, January 17, 2005 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Tuck decides against fifth year, will enter NFL draft 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
After breaking the career sack record at Notre Dame, defensive end Justin Tuck has decided to take his talents to the next level. 
Tuck announced Friday afternoon that he has made 
N D BASKETBALL 
Thomas hits winning 3-pointer late as Irish squeak past St. John's 
By MATT LOZAR SportS Writer 
The only thing that could keep Chris Thomas off the floor during a Big East game was a eoneussion. 
And that was for only eight minutes. On his only See Also field goal "Irish can't take 
attempt of the second wins for granted half, Thomas 
in the Big East" 

nailed a game-win­page 16 ning 3-point­er with 6.5 seconds remain­ing as the Irish {11-3, 3-1 Big East) survived St. John's' (6­7, 0-3) upset bid 67-66 Saturday at the Joyce Center. 
"I never had a concussion 
see SQUEAKER/page 21 

himself available for the 2005 NFL draft. 
"After much thought and consideration, I have decided to make myself eligible for selection in the upcoming NFL Draft and will not return to Notre Dame for a fifth sea­son," Tuck said in a state­ment. "The coaching staff at Notre Dame did a great job preparing me for the NFL. 
Coach Willingham and coach Mattison, along with the rest of the staff, have been a very positive influence in my per­sonal growth on and off the field. I know that I'm ready to test my skills and meet the challenges of the National Football League. I'd like to thank the Notre Dame com­munity, the students, the fac­ulty, the alumni, and all of my 
teammates for their outstand­ing support." 
Tuck, an academic senior with one year of eligibility remaining, will graduate in May with a degree in business managemen tie ntre prene ur­ship from the Mendoza College of Business. 
"That's the No. 1 focus," Tuck said Sunday night on WSBT'S "Sports Dawgz." "My 
main f?,cus was getting my degree. 
The Kellyton, Alabama native is the Notre Dame leader in career sacks with 
24.5 in his three year career. He also holds the single sea­son mark, set in 2003 when he recorded 13.5 sacks. 
Tuck said he took into con-
see TUCK/page 21 

A win's a win 
Batteast dominates with 
21 points in team's 86­
69 rout ofNo. 20 Purdue 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame needed a win. They got that and much more Sunday with an 86-69 win over 
· No. 20 Purdue. 



RICHARD FRIEDMAN and TIM SULLIVAN/The ObseiVer 
At left, Irish guard Chris Thomas dribbles the ball against St. John's. At right, Notre Dame for­ward Jacqueline Batteast, left, gets ready to shoot against Purdue Sunday. 
Jacqueline Batteast had 21 points and 11 rebounds to. See Also lead No. 7 
"Win over
Notre Dame, who entered Purdue gives 
the contest Irish confidence" 
after dropping two tough page 18 games to Big East foes Villanova and Connecticut. 
"That one feels good," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "That was probably the best team effort 
see BLOWOUT/page 18 

FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Herring, Hord say 'yes' to Notre Dame 
By MIKE GILLOON News Writer 

D..J. Hord did not make a reception in Saturday's Army All-American Bowl in San Antonio. But the biggest grab of his life may have come at halftime when he reached into a duffel bag and pulled out a Notre Dame baseball cap, signil'ying his intention to play football for the Irish next season. 
A !'our-star wide receiver according to Scout.com, Hord chose Notre Dame over Kansas State and will be able to officially sign with the Irish on February 2. · 
"I always felt comfortable with those guys," Hord said to Mike Frank of 
see YES/page 22 

ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Swimmers win on close finish 
By MIKE TENNANT Sports Writer 

Sixth hundredths of a second may not seem like a lot, but it was huge for the Irish women's swim team this weekend. 
lllinois led the No. 21-ranked Irish 175-172 going into the final swim of the meet, the 400­yard freestyle relay. Three and a half minutes later, Notre Dame sophomore Hebecca Grove touched the wall .06 sec­onds in front of Illinois' Barbie Viney, giving the Irish a 183­181 victory. 
"I couldn't really see any­thing, so l just looked up at the girls and saw Ellen !Johnson] holding her arms up and jump­ing up and down, that's when I knew," Grove said. 
The team of sophomores Katie Carroll, Ellen Johnson and Grove and freshman Caroline Johnson posted a time of 3:28.22, the best for this Irish in this event all season. 
The relay victory brought a fitting close to the final home meet of the season. 
"We made it more exciting than we intended," Irish coach Bailey Weathers said. "We've had this meet on and off the last few years, and they [Illinois! always make things pretty hard on us." 
Six seniors said goodbye to Holt's Aquatic Center Saturday, but none more triumphantly than diver Meghan Perry­Eaton. 
The fifth-year senior broke her own pool reeord for 1­meter diving with a six-dive score of 316.30 on Friday. The 
see ILLINOIS/page 22 


HOCKEY  SMC BASKEJBAU.  MEN'S TENNIS  NFL PlAYOFFS  NH PLAYOFFS  
LU  
(.) z s ~  Irish drop ~air of games to 0 io St. leers fall4-1 Friday, 3­ Alma 77, St. Mary's 71 (OT) The Belles missed out  Team wins two matches easily Notre Dame has little  Steelers, Falcons advance Saturday Pittsburgh needs  Eagles, Patriots win Sunday Philadelphia's receivers  
c:c ;:  1 Saturday to the sec-ond-place Buckeyes.  on a chance to move up in the MIAA standings.  trouble in victories over Toledo and Illinois State.  overtime to beat New York. Atlanta routs St. Louis.  play well in win over Mirmesota. New England ends Manning's dream  
season.  
page 15  page 15  page  14  page 14  page 20  









