
----~---~---------~ 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 87 WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2005 
Fisher hit by string of break-ins 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
A.sistalll News Editor 
The Notre Dame Sm:urity/Polien Department is eurrently investigating a string of four burglaries that took plaen in Fislwr Hall between Jan. 21J and Feb. 2, NilS!' assistant direetor Phil .Johnson said. 
On .Jan. 21J at approximato­ly II a.m. an alleged suspect nntnred the unloeknd room of' frnshrnen Kevin Jlotznl 

Professors avvare of liberal bias 
By MICHAEL BUSK 
News Writer 
l:'ditor 's note: This is the third in a three-part series t•xploring the role t~{ partisan politics in classes at Notre 
/Jam e. 
Thorn are no Hepublieans in tho Massachusetts Institute of Tnchnology's faculty, according to a 2003 study done by the C4HltiW f'or tlw Study of Popular Culturn. Thnrn arn two at Brown UnivPrsity. Yale Univnsity has fivn, and Columbia UnivPrsity has four. 1\s far as tho study could lind, tlw f'our srhools' combined ratio of' rngistnrnd Democrat faculty to registernd lkpuhlil'an faculty was 196 to 
II. 
Tlw study nxaminnd 32 of tlw nation's top 1:ollngns and univnrsitins. including the nntirn Ivy League. Of the facul­ty and administrators who WPre n~gistnrPd to one party or anotlwr. 1.:~ 1J7 were rPgisternd D1~rnol'rats and 134 wnro reg­istered Hnpublieans. Along with similar findings, conser­vatives often usn these num­bers as nvidencn of tlw dispro­portionate liberal majority in 1\nwriean ar.ademia. Liberals ol'tnn rnspond by saying uni­VPrsit.ins are dots of' blue in a n~d nation. and as a whoh) ad as a hnalthy eountnrbalarH:e to tlw eonsnrvativP dominance inrn~asingly found across thn nation and own in traditional­ly-liberal Washington, D.C. 
"I think it's just plain trun that l'aeultins at universities are morn liberal than the gnn­Pral population," snid l>aninl Philpott, prof'nssor of' politieal sderH·n al Notrn Damn. "I think it's dnrnonstrabln. Sonll' pnopln would say that's good. 1\ libnral would say this is tlw onn oasis wlwrn you ('.an put forth some 
see CLASSES/page 11 

and Will McLeod, where the two lay sleeping, Hetzel said, stealing their Playstation, Nintcndo 64, a few video games, a boxed set of "The O.C." and $10-15 in cash out of Hotzel's wallet. 
The two woke up as the alleged suspect was exiting the room, but were not par­ticularly concerned about his presenee, lletzel said. 
"Since it was so early on a Saturday, I figured it was some [intoxicated) guy," he said. "When I got out of bed and realized our Playstation was gone, l called NDSP." 
Hetzel described the alleged suspect as a black male who was "pretty big, about six feet tall." lie appeared to be college-age and was wearing dark cloth­ing, Hetzel said. 
On Jan. 31 between the hours of 10 a.m. and 1 p.m., an alleged suspect entered the unlocked room of fresh­men Kevin Carrier, Jarred Wafer, Dan Curran and Luke Cieslewicz -but unlike the first burglary, the room was empty at the time, Cieslewicz said. 
According to Cieslewicz, the alleged suspect stole a Game Cube, a Playstation and the accompanying mem­ory cards and controllers. The alleged suspect also took about 18 DVDs and 19 video games, Cieslewicz said. 
On Feb. 2, an alleged sus­pect entered the unlocked single of sophomore Paul 
see BREAK-INS/page II 
VICTORY! 


Students pour out of the stands and onto the Joyce Center court Tuesday to celebrate the men's basketball team win over previously undefeated Boston College. The Irish defeated the Eagles, ranked fourth In the nation, 68-65. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Duerson court date scheduled 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Editor 

Former Notre Dame football captain Davo Duerson, who resigned from the Board of Trustees Friday after allegedly assaulting his wife in The Morris Inn Thursday, is sched­uled to appear in St. Joseph Superior Court Fob. 2R, St. JosBph County Prosecutor Michael Dvorak said Tuesday. 
The prose­eutor's office 

Duerson

l'i led two eounts of battery and two counts of donwsti1: batter·y against Duerson Monday in charges resulting from the incident, which took plcu:e in room 236 of The Morris Inn at 
1:45 a.m. Thursday, aecording to the proseeutor's suppln­mental affidavit. 
To date, no lawyer has regis­tered on Duerson's bnhalf in the Traffic and Misd!Hll(1anor Division of' thn Superior Court. according to eourt reeords. 
The Observer was unable to reach Dave or his wife, 1\lieia Duerson, for comment Tuesday. 
A woman reaehnd at tlw Duersons' Highland Park, Ill. residenee, who described lwr­self as the family's baby-sitter but declined to give her nanw, 
see DUERSON/page II 

Two retnaining tickets focused on runoff 
Friendships between candidates adds strain 
By MADDIE HANNA 
News Writer 
Old f'rinnds, Senate leadnrs and now serious eompetitors, Dave Baron, Lizzi Shappell, .Jamns Lllito and Jordan Bongiovanni say while running against naeh otlwr for Notre Damn student body president and vieo presidon t is difficult, they bdieve their friendship will withstand the tnst of Thursday's runoll'. 
"Come Thursday, when the pioees fall whnrn they will. I'm confident Jam1JS and I will be l'ino. Wo started this eloetion tight, and I'll make sure that wo end it that way as well," Baron said. 
The history between the ean­
see HISTORY/page 6 


Program budgeting, racism arise in debate 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
News Editor 

Details and divnrsity sharnd the limelight at Tunsday's studnnt body prnsidnntial runoff debate, as tlw race's two f'inal tieknts pointnd out key dil'f'nrencns bntwe1m tlwir snemingly similar platf'orms and pledg1Hl t'heir commit­ment to making Notre Damn a loss homog11nous l:ommuni­ty. 
The tiekets of' Dave Baron­Lizzi Shappell, who rncnivnd 1,333 votes in Monday's primary olnetion, and Jan111s Lnito­Jordan Bongiovanni, who rnenivnd I ,07 4 votes, nxchangnd statemonts on tho first floor of' LaForturw for approximately 
sec DEBATE/page 9 

Wednesday, February 9, 2005
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The ''D'' 

word 
Dating. A word that scares many Notre Dame undergraduates. Dating never scared me until I got to Notre Dame. But, after a few quasi-rela­tionships and bad dates over the 
years, I think I  
may have part of the bizarre Notre  Jeannine Prlvat  
Dame social scene  
figured out.  
Dating is not as  wire editor  
I imagined it  
would be as a  

late-teen, early twenty-something college student. I had imagined a lax social scene where people casually dated, i.e. did not see each other everyday, did not chat on IM at least twice a day, and did not stay in con­stant contact by cell phone calls ­all after going to an SYR and eating dinner Thursday night at the dining hall. 
Yes, I had imagined something quite different. A guy in class might ask for my number, we would have dinner one week night. Then, if we were still slightly interested in each other, maybe go to a party together the next week. Eventually, this could progress to seeing each other a cou­ple times a week. Defining the rela­tionship would not take place before the 6-week mark. I would be able to casually date other people in addi­tion to the first guy, without either of our feelings being hurt. 
Instead, we have de facto mar­riages and obsessively random hook­ups, with people frightfully avoiding repeat hookups with the same per­son in an effort to ward off said de facto marriages. A de facto mar­riage you might ask. I can really come up with no better title for the relationships rampant on the Notre Dame campus where couples virtual­ly live in one another's rooms or apartments, spending hours a day in close contact with one another. Beiag part of a Notre Dame couple requires more commitment than any other dating relationship in the real world, with apartments and rooms mere 3-minute drives or walks away, it's difficult to stay away. Some stu­dents embrace this hyper-commit­ment, while others avoid it like the plague, leading to commitment-pho­bics who refuse to engage in any behavior other than random hookups. 
One large problem is the assump­tion by the student population that female students, especially juniors and seniors, are concerned only with obtaining a "ring by spring." I can safely say no ring will be forthcom­ing for me this spring, nor do I actu­ally want one. With my future a huge question mark, and a burning desire to travel the European and African continents, a husband, or worse my own family, is the last thing I want. Nor do I want to avoid interaction with the opposite sex. It would be nice to be in a casual thing with someone whose company I enjoy, but who isn't looking for a huge commitment. -I'm not hold­ing my breath. 
So, I'm biding my time, waiting for the real world, when I will be able to casually date men without thinking of only sex or china patterns. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU GIVING UP FOR LENT? 






soul." 
IN BRIEF 
The second annual Notre Dame Queer Film Festival begins today and will continue through Saturday. The event will run all day in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts and is spon­sored by the department of film, television and theatre. 
Writer Naomi Schaefer Riley will present a talk on her lat­est work "God on the Quad: 
How  College  and  the  
Missionary Generation  are  
Changing  America."  The  

presentation will begin at 7:30 
p.m. in Carey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library and is sponsored by the Center for Ethics and Culture. 
The class of 2008 is hosting "Speed Dating" Thursday from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. at Legends 
Actors from the London Stage will stage a performance of "Othello" Friday and Saturday nights at 7:30p.m. in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The event is sponsored by the department of film, television and theatre. 
Chicago Samba. a Midwest­based music ensemble that performs authentic Brazilian music, will perform at the Palais Royale Friday from 8 
p.m. until midnight. The even is free and open to the public. It is sponsored by the Kellogg Institute, International Student Services and Activities, International Studey Programs, La Alaianza and WVPE 88.2 FM. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

Thao Nguyen Lisa Nguyen Vlnh Nguyen Jean Nguyen Paul Nguyen Huyen.Nguyen 
sophomore junior sophomore Freshman Sophomore freshman Keough McGlinn Stanford McGlinn Keough Farley 
"Missing my "Drama and "Sweets, and no "French fries, "Caffeine; may "Facebook. so 8:ooa.m. boys." I'm not related and I wish I God rest my don't poke me. " 
class." to them." was related to Vinh." 


ERIC SALES/The Observer Members of the Filipino-American student organization practice a filipino bamboo dance In the Lewis basement for their annual event Flestang to be held Feb. 26. 
OFFBEAT 
disciplined, the Ministry of Defence said Tuesday. 
The Lynx helicopter was on a map-reading training exercise in eastern England on Jan. 25 when it made a landing in the Stanford area, a Ministry of Defence spokesman said. 
"The pilot took it upon himself to basically deliver this pizza," the spokesman said. "He has been made aware thaf the chain of command doesn't condone his actions and has been disciplined." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Toddler goes for joy ride In mother's car 
DETROIT -A 4-year-old Michigan boy took under­age driving to new extremes by slipping behind the wheel of his mother's car for an overnight visit to the local video store. 
Nile Hayden, mayor of the small town of Sand Lake in the southwest cor­ner of the state, said the boy's "joy ride," which ended with more than one fender bender, occurred about 1:30 a.m. last Friday. 
He drove about a quarter mile from his home to the video store without inci­dent, Hayden told Reuters. 
The store was closed. On the boy's return home, he hit two parked vehicles before backing up into a police cruiser, Hayden said. 
"Once the officers got him out of the car and sat him on the hood of our car, he started crying and say­ing: 'I want to go into the house. I want to go back to bed,"' Hayden said. 
Pilot punished for deliver­Ing pizza by helicopter 
LONDON -A British military pilot who used an army helicopter to make a pizza delivery has been 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
IJ.I 
:::z:: 
ti 
;:IJ.I 
..I c( (,) 


23 20 

28 18 

33 
30 
0 
HIGH 29
... 
LOW 21 

Wednesday, February 9, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Classes, cold can't stop fans gunning for courtside 

By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
When it comes to attaining prime seating at home Irish bas­ketball games, there is only one rule -!'air-weather fans need not apply. 
Fourteen Domers slept outside the Joyce Center Monday night to obtain the most coveted seats in the Notre Dame student sec­tion, or more colloquially dubbed, the Leprechaun Legion. Thn earliest students arrived at the JACC was approximately 
10:30 p.m.-over 20 hours prior to tip-ofT. 
Through Monday night and into Tunsday, fans amassed in front of Gate 1 to ensure court­side seating at last night's game against Boston College. 
Seated in lawn chairs and draped in blankets to block the unseasonably warm but still frigid air, diehard basketball fans spent the night playing cards, futilely attempting home­work and sleeping. Best was minimal, however, as one stu­dent noted, they had only slept about "three or four hours." 
For many of the students, Tuesday classes took a backseat to the big game. Freshman Michael Cimino admitted he missed two, but felt the impor­tance of the game was justifica­tion enough for his nonatten­dance. 
"I consider them excused absences," Cimino said. 
Many fans wished to remain nameless for fear of negative reactions from faculty members. But according to the students, responses from passersby were not much better. 
Despite the bewildered looks and puzzled inquiries of bystanders, members of the Irish coaching staff received the stu­dents warmly. 
At noon on Tuesday, head coach Mike Brey delivered "care packages" to the dedicated fans. The large cardboard boxes brought to the students con­tained chips, other assorted snack foods and soda. According to students, Brey has made a habit of providing food as a token of his gratitude for their enthusiasm for the program. 
"Brey is probably the nicest coach on campus," freshman Kevin Baker said. "He is a really cool guy." 
Brey was not the only coach who paid the devoted fans a visit, however. In the early morning hours, assistant coach Lewis Preston made a declara­tion as he passed the JACC. 
"It ends tonight," Preston said, referring to the Eagles' previous­ly untarnished record. 
Preston's prediction proved true, as the Irish rode to victory on solid play as well as the elec­tricity of the student section. Ironically, some of the most energized fans at the game were those who had spent the night outside the JACC. An ESPN cam­eraman's dream, the students painted their bodies in blue and gold and riled the rest of the Legion for the entire game. 
Students agreed their quest to obtain the best possible seats was not driven by the desire to appear on television. Instead they cited a deep passion for the team and especially the magni­tude of this particular game. 
''I'm here for one reason," sophomore Johnny McDnrmott said. "pure, unadulterated hatred for Boston College." 
Instead of hatred of the oppo­nent, Baker arrived at the JACC several hours before the game because he is "addicted" to the 
. first-rate seating granted through his sacrifices. "You do it once, and you get hooked," he said. Cimino voiced his rationale in the form of prophesy. "It's going to be a marquee moment in Notre Danw history," he said of tlw gamP. lie could not haw btwn mort' right. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 

is now accepting applications for
THE 

2005-2006R General Board 
Any full time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross is encouraged to apply. Applicants should submit a resume and an application at least 3 pages long explaining how they would run their department. 

NEWS EDITOR 
Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR 
Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Ed1tor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR, Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SCENE EDITOR 
Applicants should have feature writing and editing experience. The Scene Ed1tor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas and is responsible for the content of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of ph'otogtaphers and lab technicians and must work closely with the News, Sports and Scene department editors in assjgning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR 
Applicants should have reporting, writing and editing skills. The editor man­ages Saint Mary's department heads,. coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER 
Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The 
Advertising Manager oversees a staff of account executives and is responsible 
for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of Quark 
Xpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager over­
sees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing depart­
ments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER 

Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and .knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responSible tor training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR 
Applicants must be familiar with building and maintaining a Web site. The Web -Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial department of The 
Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The 
Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the s1te. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR 

Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top­quality graphics with the content of each day's newspaper. 
All applications must be submitted to Claire Heininger in the Observer's office, located in the basement of South Dining Hall, by Wednesday, February 9, 2005 by 5 p.m. Questions about the application process can be directed to Claire at 1-4542. 
Wednesday, February 9, 2005 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Crnkovich named communications VP 
PR executive to oversee ND Magazine 
By KATIE WAGNER 
News Writer 
Hilary Crnkovich, currently an executive for the global public relations and public affairs firm Burson-Marsteller in Chicago, was elected vice 
president for public affairs and commu­nication at Notre Dame on Friday. 
Beginning March 2, Crnkovich will oversee Notre 

Dame Maga-Crnkovich zinc and many University offices, including marketing, media relations, community relations, web and print design photog­raphy, video and internal com­munications. 
She said she will be responsi­ble for "overall management of the way the world sees the University of Notre Dame" and will be working with a team of more than 50 people. 
"I think this is an exciting time at Notre Dame," she said. ''I'm looking forward to work­ing with everyone." 
Crnkovich has worked in the field of marketing and commu­nications for 20 years. 
Prior to her position at Burson-Marsteller, she was a senior account executive for Earle Palmer Brown, a full­service marketing communica­tions company, and a partner in Chicago-based Design­kitchen, an award winning print and Web site firm. She has served not-for-profit, cor­porate and quasi-governmental clients. 
Crnkovich said her job at Notre Dame will be the culmi­nation of all of her work in the fields of marketing and com­munications. 
"It's an opportunity to merge all my different types of expe­riences ... into one position," Crnkovich said. 
''I've worked in on-line mar­keting for a very long time." 
University President-elect Father John Jenkins said in a statement that Crnkovich was an outstanding choice. 
"Notre Dame is fortunate to attract individuals at the top of 



Poker Chips from $4.95/50 Texas 
from Poker Tables from $299.00. 
Rentals Available 
Large Selection of Game Tables, Supplies and Table Toppers. 
46-fJIISIO 
50510 St. Rd. 933N • South Bend 
574-272-1617 
their professional careers and certainly that is the case with Hilary," Jenkins said. "Her cre­dentials are impeccable and they match our needs in the very challenging media and marketing climate of the Internet era." 
Crnkovich is Catholic and her husband Chris graduated from Notre Dame in 1978. She said Notre Dame is an exemplary University and called the posi­tion "a once in a lifetime opportunity." 
"I really believe in the University, in the mission of furthering the ideas of the University. the importance of Catholic higher education and very much believe in the future of the University," Crnkovich said. 
Jenkins expressed confidence in the new vice president. 
"She [Crnkovich] has a deep understanding of our academic mission, our commitment to maintaining the Catholic char­acter of the University, and the wide-ranging constituencies that constitute the Notre Dame family," he said. 
Crnkovich earned her bache­lor's degree in political science from Michigan in 1983 and studied graphic design and fine arts at the Parsons School of Design in New York. 
"My hope is to communicate the full essence of Notre Dame to the world," Crnkovich said. ''I'm excited to work with Father Malloy and what else is ahead." 
Contact Katie Wagner at kwagner@nd.edu 

Campus prepares for Lent 
Meatless dining hall options, special masses offered 
ByJOHN EVERETT News Writer 
Today, Ash Wednesday, marks the beginning of Lent, a season of reflection, repentance and self-denial for Christians. 
The season lasts until Easter Sunday, and the Notre Dame campus will be celebrating the season in a variety of ways. 
Traditionally, Catholics above the age of 14 are to abstain from eating meat on Ash Wednesday and on any Friday during Lent. In accordance with this tradi­tion the dining halls will not serve meat on these dates, offering instead a wider variety of meatless options to cater to the stu­dents observing the Catholic doctrine. 
In past years this has caused grumbling from both Catholic and non­Catholic students alike. Some argue the lack of meat makes the avoidance of it less of a sacrifice, as the intended thought and observance are taken out of the equation. 
Others state it is unfair for the University to make a choice for its students in the area of religious tradi­tions, as not everyone on campus is an observing Catholic. 
Sophomore John Coyle supports the University's stance. 
''I'm glad they have it this way, it doesn't put any extra temptation in front of us. If they had meat they wouldn't be able to offer a sign up for the Wednesday variety of non-meat options Lunch Fast for the duration to the many students who of Lent if they are not are going to abstain." Coyle already part of the pro-said. gram. , 
Sophomore Vincent Au. a The project is run in con­non-Catholic, had mixed junction with the World feelings. !Iunger Corporation, with 
"I don't know how I feel proceeds going to aid about it, when tsunami vic­you go to tims. Notre Dame Campus
"Jfthey had meat 
you get used Ministry is
they wouldn't be 
to it. It is only offering ves­once a week," able to offer a pers every 
Ali said. variety ofnon-meat Sunday 
It should be evening at
options to the many
noted Notre 7:15 p.m. fea­Dame is not students who are turing one of alone among going to abstain." the Basilica Catholic uni­choirs. versities in There will 
John Coyle 
the practice of also be a meatless meal sophomore rosary said 
options during Lent. 
However, some institutions, such as Boston College, do not remove meat entrees from its dining halls. 
With the spirituality of the season in mind. the University is planning many events designed to bring students closer to God dur­ing Lent. 
Tonight, the Center for Social Concerns is hosting a special Ash Wednesday penitential mass at 7 p.m. at the Log Chapel. 
Father Tim McDermott will preside over the serv­ice, and a Sudanese woman who survived the tsunami will be there to deliver a homily about her experi­ences. 
The CSC would also like to remind students they can every day at the Grotto at 
6:45 p.m. and Stations of the Cross will be held on Friday evenings at 7:15. 
An e-mail sent out by assistant din~ctor of Campus Ministry Priscilla Wong includes advice to students on how they can deepen their faith this Lenten season -a time intended for examination and renewal of personal religious beliefs before the Easter celebration. 
It advises students to pick up good habits as well as sacrifice bad ones, to try and be aware of the needs of others, to perform acts of mercy and to read spiri­tual works. 
Contact John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February 9, 2005 CoMPILED FROl~.1 'THE ()HSERVER'S WllU SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Second cloning license granted 
LONDON -The British government Ttwsday gave the creator of Dolly the Sheep a license to clone human embryos for med­ieal research into the cause of motor neuron diseas1~. 
Ian Wilmut, who led the team that created Dolly at Scotland's Hoslin Institute in 1996, and motor neuron expert Christopher Shaw of the Institute of Psychiatry in London. plan to clone embyros to study how nerve cells go awry to eause the disnase. The experiments do not involve cn~aling clorwd babies. 
ll is the sncond such license approved since Britain lwcanw the first country to legalize n•sParch cloning in 200 I. Thn first was granted in August to a team that hopes to usP cloning to r.reate insulin-producing cells that could be transplanted into diabetics. 
Shiite ticket poised for victory 
BA<;IIDAil. Iraq -Despite assurances they will stay out of politics. Iraq's powerful Shiite Muslim clergy is likdy to wield considerable inllw•ncP in shaping the new Iraq now that a Shiite-dominated ticket is poised for victory in last wm~k 's national elnctions. 
Sine:«~ tlw arrival of U.S.-led troops. Shiite elt~ric:s -chid among them Iranian-born (;rand Ayatollah Ali ai-Sistani -have used tlwir enormous prestige to force major conces­sions from the Americans and their Iraqi allies whiln largely avoiding armed confrontation in tlw styh~ of their Sunni Muslim rivals. 
Major Shiite politicians, including those who favor Western suits and speak foreign lan­guages. have avoided making nH\jor decisions without dearing them with ai-Sistani and the rh~rical hierarchy in Najaf. spiritual center of the Shiito faith. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Gay marriage ban approved 
HICIIMONI>. Va. -The Virginia House approved a constitutional amendment ban­ning gay marriage Tuesday, despite a warn­ing from the state's lirst openly gay legislator that the measure will one day prove as shameful as slavery and segregation. 
The I louse voted 78-18 in favor of a resolu­tion similar to one easily approved in the SPJHLte on Monday. 
If negotiators can reconcile the two ver­sions this year. and the measure passes both chambers again next year, it will be put to the voters in November 2006. 
Education's importance evident 
WASIIINGTON-Young adults value college. but many haven't enrolled because of money woes, poor prt~paration, low expectations at home or sheer laziness. a survey finds. 
Tlw rnsult is that seven in 10 young workers without college degrees say they are in their jobs by chance. not by choice. Less than two in I 0 view their jobs as likely careers. 
Ovt~rall. most adults age 18 to 25 sec college as a way to earn society's respect and ensure financial security, says the survey by Public Agenda, a nonpartisan public opinion group. The positive view of college is true regardless of race. ethnieity or family income. 
"Most young people have absorbed the 'Go to college. get more education' message," said Huth Wooden, the Public Agenda president. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Daniels ' not switching residence 
INDIANAPOLIS -Gov. Mitch Daniels does not ncml to livn at the ol1ieial governor's resi­dence because lw already has a horne in one of the city's most upscale areas and plans to build a new house in a gated community in suburban Carnwl. 
But Indiana's future governors may not all lw wealthy or liv1~ near the state capital. Sonw kind of living arrangPment will have to be made for them. though it doesn't neces­sarily have to be a state-owned mansion, a political scientist said. 
Rice seeks fresh start in France 
Goal of joint diplomacy between U.S., Europe drives Secretary of State's tour 
Associated Press 

PAHIS -Secretary of State Condoleezza Hice took the argument over American ideals and inl1u­encc to her European crit­ics' door Tuesday. and urged cooperation to move beyond disagreements over the war in Iraq. 
"It is time to open a new chapter in our relationship and a new chapter in our alliance." Hice told Paris' Institute of Political Studies as she defended the Bush administration's foreign pol­icy in hostile territory. 
France was the most vocal opponent of President Bush's handling of the Iraq war, and Hice did not engender any goodwill in his lirst term when she said the United States should "punish France, ignore Germany and forgive Hussia" for their opposition to the invasion. 
Hice chose Paris for the major address of her first tour of Europe as America's chief diplomat to try to turn the page. She also took questions. 
"America stands ready to work with Europe on our common agenda. and Europe must stand ready to work with America," she said. 
She did not back down from Bush's call last month never been," Rice said in and Europeans work ous opposition here and in his inauguration speech response to a question together," Barnier said. elsewhere in Europe. to spread freedom across about why she chose Paris "while respecting one Fondation Nationalc des the globe, a challenge per­for her address. another's particular views Sciences Politiques, known 
ceived as arrogant or naive "I know it looks really and sensibilities." in France as Sciences Po, is on some European opinion hard, when we see the pic­Barnier also said that an elite and left-leaning pages. tures from Iraq of the sui­France, Britain and political science academy. A "History will surely judge cide bombers, to think that Germany still think their large swath of French politi­us not by our old disagree­the Iraqi people are going to joint diplomacy is the right cal and intellectual leaders ments but by our new build a free and stable dem­approach to dissuade Iran are graduates, and some achievements," Rice said. ocratic state," she said. from pursuing a nuclear were in the audience of 
Hice, on the job just two Rice's French counter­weapon. "We need about 500 on '1\Jesday. weeks. did not directly part, Foreign Minister American support and con­Sciences Po has been at address criticism of the Iraq Michel Barnier, later deliv­fidence," he said. the center of the debate 
war but repeatedly pointed ered double-edged thanks. The United States has not over America's reach and to what she called the brav­After meeting with Rice. joined the European effort, power in Iraq and else­ery of Iraqi voters who Barnier told reporters, "It's which some U.S. officials where around the world. as 
turned out for elections last time to get off to a new have privately described as Hicc acknowledged with a month despite threats of start," but he added that coddling the Iranian gov­smile. terrorism. "alliance is not the same as ernment. "France has a great tradi­"I know it looks really allegiance." Barnier's comments were tion of debate, of intellectu­hard to talk about the "Let me say loud and a reminder of France's frus­al ferment," said Hice, her­spread of freedom and lib­clear that the world is a bet­tration that Bush went to self a former Stanford erty into places where it has ter place when Americans war in Iraq despite vocifcr-University academic. 


Republicans skeptic of budget 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -White House officials and Congress' top budget writers tried rallying support Tuesday for President Bush's $2.57 trillion budget. but cracks in Republican unity showed as law­makers digested the plan's pro­posed spending cuts. 
"Stay in the game the rest of the year." House Budget Committee Chairman Jim Nussle, R-Iowa, urged colleagues who havn voiced support for paring thn defieit since the budget's release Monday. "Don't claim you want to cut the deficit in one breath and demand we spend more in the next." 
Joshua Bolten, Bush's budget chief, told Nussle's committee that the president "won't hesitate" to veto excessive spending bills ­which he has yet to do in four years. 
"I don't anticipate it will be nec­essary this year," Bolten added. 
Even so, Republicans across the Capitol flashed signs of concern about Bush's proposals, raising questions about how closely the GOP-led Congress will follow the president's fiscal outline. Bush has proposed increasing defense and domestic security spending while culling $137 billion in 10-year sav­ings from Medicaid and other bene­fits. plus eliminating or deeply cut­ting more than 150 education and 
other programs. 
"Maybe some things the president doesn't want to keep we'll put back in," said Sen. Ted Stevens, H­Alaska, a top member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. "But I think we'll keep the budget disci­pline." 
Underscoring GOP fault lines, Senate Budget Cornrnitten Chairman Judd Gregg, H-N.Il., opened Tuesday's Senate session by voicing support for Bush's plan. Gregg callnd Bush's plan "cour<L­geous" and said he was willing to lead a charge to l'ind savings from benefits like farm subsidies and Medicaid. the federal-state lwalth­care program for the poor and dis­abled. 


~--­
page 6 Wednesday, February 9, 2005
The Observer + NEWS [ 
t Bongiovanni said while she had said. Bongiovanni also mentioned had been able to keep her priori­not known Shappell before this No matter what happens on the stress factor. ties straight. 
History 

year, she believes they will con­Thursday, the candidates say "It's an election. not a war," she "It's all about balance. aFJd pre­tinue to become better friends. they will be relieved to be fin­said. "But the time and energy serving what's most important."
continued from page 1 

"If anything, my relationship ished with such an intense alone that goes into a campaign she said. dictates goes back to their fresh­with Lizzi has grown stronger endeavor. stresses all of my relationships." man year, when juniors Baron, because of our unique positions "It's just such a stressful time," Even while dealing with this Contact Maddie Hanna at Bongiovanni and Leito were all in this campaign. I am looking Baron said. stress, Bongiovanni said that she mhannal @nd.edu members of Freshman Class forward to sharing many cups of Council. coffee after this is over with a 
"Interesting enough, Jordan friend who has been through was the one to nominate me for such a similar, eventful experi­president, and I nominated ence," Bongiovanni said. James for treasurer," Baron said. According to Shappell. they are 
The ties grew more complex all trying to put politics aside and last year when Baron served as move forward. campaign manager for the "It is a little tough running 
Looking for a great stlmmer job? 

Ebersol-Leito ticket and was then against James and Jordan appointed chief executive assis­because of our friendship and 

Want to live in tl1e Hamptons?

tant by the winning Istvan-Bell working relationship. I don't, administration. however, feel any conflicts 
Baron stressed the careful because of our background decision-making he had prac­because I know we are all in this ticed over the course of his time for the right reasons," Shappell 
in student government. said. 1~his is your chance to have both. 
"When I came back from Leito said he found the race France last year, I wanted to get difficult because of Baron's back­involved again. Knowing James, I ground. made a decision to back them "It is frustrating to run against [Ebersol and Leito]. and I whole­any student holding a position at 
What: Various estate caretaking duties for an NO

heartedly worked to help them," the top of a student government Baron said. that has failed to accomplish 

alutnnus in East Han1pton, NY

He continued, "When we lost many of its goals," Leito said. and Adam Istvan offered me the Despite this difficulty, Leito chief executive assistant spot, I said, "I would think that regard­made another decision and dedi­less of whatever happens, we will Con1pensation: $to~ooo scholarship, $150 per \Veek 
cated myself wholeheartedly to all still remain friends." combine the ideas I found to be Friendship was essential for spending tnoney, paid travel to and ti·on1 NY and 
most important from both tickets' Bongiovanni as well, who said, campaign." "Before we even decided which roon1 and board 
However strong their decision­of us would run together. I took making skills might be, all four James and Dave to dinner to candidates were tested this past stress the point that if our friend­November in choosing who was ships were damaged because of How to apply: Send a full resun1e and short essay on going to run and for what posi­this election, I would consider 
tion. that to be the greatest loss. And I why you vvould be interested in the job, your career 
"This election actually started still feel that way." 
in November when both James Bongiovanni said they aren't interests and n1ost defining characteristics~ or any and Dave asked me to run with much different from your aver­
them. Deciding between two of age group of friends. questions~ to NDsun1n1et:job@yahoo.con1* 
my closest friends' offers and my "Every friendship has their own decision of running for the tests and trials -ours are just a 
presidency myself naturally cre­little more publicly known than *Must be able to live on the estate t(>r the entire summer, must be a cur­ates conflict. But in the end, my usual," she said. rent freshman or sc,phomore ro apply 
decision is based on the running In addition to preserving their mate and position that best own friendships, the candidates matches my own values and also have to deal with having so skills," Bongiovanni said. many mutual friends that find 
Shappell, a sophomore, entered themselves torn. the picture this year when all "Our mutual friends have been four worked together in Senate. split, some helping us. some 
Leito and Bongiovanni both helping them, others staying emphasized their strong friend­wholly out of it," Baron said, con­ship, a tie made even closer not cluding, 'They will definitely cel­
Snite Museum of Art

only by their past cooperation in ebrate when this election is COR and Senate but also by the over." fact that they are both account­Leito agreed with Baron as to Why Art Museums Are Essential: ing majors and frequently study the uncertainty of the situation. together. "I wouldn't want to speak for The Challenges and Opportunities of Directing an Art Museum 
"We feed off of each other's our mutual friends, but I am con­drive and push each other to fident that they will make what­work harder," Leito said of their ever decision they personally feel relationship. is best for the University," Leito 
2004-05 SEASON 
NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
,...,.<{,, 
~ 

i\ttors Frorn rrhe London Stage OTHELLO 
by William Shakespeare 
. Friday, February 11 and Saturday, February 12 : Both performances at 7:30 p.m. 
Leighton Concert Hall 
• 

~· · · Marie P DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
General Public $18.00 • Seniors/NO Faculty/Staff $16 • All Students $12 
Tickets available at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders accepted. Call 631-2800. 
The Actors res1dency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
r±JUNIVERSITY Of ~DE BARTOLOw l\'OTRE DAME ~PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 


THE 0BSERVEI'Z 






USINESS
Wednesday, February 9, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

10,724.63 +8.87

jones 
···~·· Same: Qqwr: Composite Volume: 1,845 167 • 1,412,532,608 

AMEX 1,472.18 +3.28 NASDAQ 2,086.68 +4.65 NYSE 7,207.45 +6.54 s&PSOO I ,202.30 +0.58 NIKKE.l(Tokyo) I t ,486.29 -4.14 ffif IOO(London) 4,995.50 +15.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.44 -0.08 18.24 INTEL CP (INTC) +2.18 +0.50 23.41 NASDAQ I00 TR SER I (QQQQ) +0.18 +0.18 37.74 SIRIUS SATELLITE R(SIRI) -3.73 -0.23 5·.93 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +OJ I +0.08 26.24 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.72 -0 32 43.92 10-YEAR NOTE -0.37 -0.15 40.37 5-YEAR NOTE +0.33 +0.12 36.75 3-MONTH BILL + 1.15 +0.28 24.65 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0. 12 45.40 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.10 414.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.20 89.20 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 05.6800 EURO 0.7838 POUND 0.5392 CANADIAN$ 1.2484 



IN BRIEF 
Provocative ad pulled mid-game 
NEW YOHK-;\racy ad for a vendor of Web sitf~ names was pulled at the last minute from a second showing during the Super Bowl telecast on Sunday after NFL executives objected that tho spot made light of Janet Jackson's "wardrob1~ malfunction" incident in last year's halftime show. 
The ad for GoDaddy.com Inc. featured a buxom woman appearing before a "broadcast censorship" hearing making her case that she wanted to appear in a commercial, when sud­denly she sufl'ers a malfunction of her own as a strap breaks on her already skimpy top. 
One of the elderly committee members reach­es for an oxygen mask. while a woman suggests that thn woman put on a turtleneck. The logo of tlw fake news channel was "G-Spin," and the lwarings were supposedly being held in Salem, MIL'iS., the town made famous by witch trials. 
Although the spot was initially approved by Fox executives prior to airing, a decision was made during broadeast not to air the spot a sec­ond time later in the game. Brian McCarthy, a spokesman for the NFL, said that the NFL's chief operating officer, Hoger Godell, expressed his "disappointment" to Fox executives after seeing tho first airing of the ad. 
Trump's shareholders file claim 
;\TI..ANTIC CITY, N.J. -Denouncing Trump I lotels & Casino Hesorl'i' bankruptcy reorgani­zation plan as "a basket of goodies" for Donald Trump, a group of common stockholders wanLc; to file an alternative with fewer perks for the casino mogul and more valtui for stakeholders. 
In a cot1rt filing Monday, the Official Committee of Equity Security Holders asked a judge to terminate Trump Hotels' exclusive right to reorganize its affairs, saying the Chapter 11 reorganization plan now being con­sidered reeks of inside deals benefiting Trump, his bankers and others at the expense of the approximately 32,000 holders of the casino company's common stock. 
Trump and his allies are looking out for thnmselves, not stockholders or others with stakes in Trump I Iotnls. according to the share­holders. 
"First. this is clearly a case in whieh "the fox is guarding the henhouse," the Equity Committe1~'s filing said. 
Bush's budget seeks results 
Federal programs affected by budget cuts range from health care to farming 
Associated Press 

DETHOIT -President Bush said Tuesday that Congress must bring disci­pline to the federal budget and cut failing or unnec­essary programs even if thoy have laudable goals. 
"It is essontial that those who spend the money in Washington adhere to this principle_ a taxpayer dol­lar ought to be spent wisely or not spent at all." Bush told the Detroit Economic Club. 
Bush sent Congress a $2.·57 trillion budget Monday that drastically cuts or eliminates 150 federal programs, includ­ing subsidies paid to farmers, health programs for poor people and veter­ans and spending on the environment and educa­tion. 
Bush said every pro­gram on the chopping block is failing to meet its goals, duplicates other available services or is not an essential priority for the federal government. Bush singled out farm subsidies, which he said are providing government checks of up to $360,000 a year to individual farm­ers. 
"I think that no farmer should get $250,000 a Every government pro­tion and the economy have achieved." year in subsidy," Bush gram was created with wasn't enough of a con­Bush has offered a said. He said cutting the good intentions, but not cern to deny Bush a sec­budget proposal for next subsidies will save taxpay­all are matching good ond term, although it con­year that would boost ers $1.2 billion over the intentions with good tributed to his loss in the spending on the military next decade. results." hard-hit swing state of and homeland security 
Bush also cited Even Bush's slimmed-down Miehigan. but cut many other pro­Start, a 16-year-old litera­budget proposal is just Employment figures grams. Many of the pro­cy program for poor fami­one of the conservative released last week provid­grams Bush wants to cut lies. Bush said everyone fiscal policies he plans to ed a reprieve to the White are popular in Congress. wants poor people to push in his second term House. While the addition which still has to approve learn to read. but three as he tries to continue of 146,000 jobs was small, his plan. evaluations have made it expanding the economy it gave Bush a net gain of Gus Faucher, a senior clear that Even Start is and improve the slowly 119,000 jobs during his economist at Econ­not working. recovering job market. first term and allowed omy.com, said Bush's plan 
"Congress needs to join Bush also wants tax cuts, him to escape being the to keep spending below with me to bring real deregulation, free trade first president since the rate of inflation for spending discipline to the and more modern training Herbert Hoover to have a programs outside of federal budget," Bush said for the work force. net loss of jobs on his defense and homeland to applause from automo­Questions about the watch. security is a change from tive executives and others health of the jobs market "We have overcome a the first term, when he Michigan leaders jammed dogged Bush throughout series of challenges to our oversaw large increases wall-to-wall at tables in a his first term and was a economy," McClellan told in federal spending. large room at Cobo Hall. hot-button issue in the reporters Monday. "We "In that sense he has "Spending discipline presidential campaign. must continue to act to not been conservative at requires difficult choices. Ultimately the jobs situa-build upon the results we all," Faucher said. 

WorldCom CFO: "this isn't right" 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Confronted with deteriorating finances at WorldCom, CEO Bernard Ebbers repeatedly insisted the company had to "hit our numbers," the former chief financial officer testified Tuesday. 
Scott Sullivan told jurors at Ebbers' fraud trial that he informed the CEO in the fall of 2000 that it could only meet Wall Street expec­tations by booking improper figures to boost revenue and hide expenses: 
"I told Bernie, 'This isn't right,"' Sullivan said, describing an October 2000 meeting in which he showed Ebbers a plan to ereate $133 mil­lion in revenue by improperly draw­ing down reserve aceounts. 
"He just stared at it. and he looked up at me and he said, 'We have to hit our numbers,"' Sullivan testified. 
The government contends the remark was a command from Ebbers for Sullivan and WorldCom accountants to commit fraud _ a fraud that eventually grew to $11 billion and drove the telecommuni­cations firm into bankruptcy in 2002. 
Two accountants have testified they threatened to quit in October 2000, and Sullivan testified he sent a handwritten note to Ebbers com­plaining that there was no support for the adjustments. 
Sullivan said Ebbers later told him: "We shouldn't be making these poople make thesn adjustments." 
Sullivan, the star witness for the government and the only 0111~ to directly link Ebbers to the fraud, has already pleaded guilty in the WorldCom scandal. On his second day of testimony, he walked jurors through late 2000, when WorldCom's business was suffering mightily. 
At the time, the dot-com bubble had burst, and WorldCom was faced with sharply slowing rnvnnur growth and expenses that soan~d so high Sullivan said he thought there was something wrong with the numbers. 
page 8 Wednesday, February 9, 2005 
The Observer + NEWS
' 
t 
BRAZIL 
Revelers take to the streets for Carnival 
Associated Press 
HIO DE JANEIHO -Street bands snarled traffic across the city as tens of thousands of paraders took to the streets Tuesday for the final day of carnival. 
In the Ipanema beachfront district, drag queens jostled with little children in super­hero costumes as the sun set in the distance. Traffic was backed up for miles, as those who fled the city during the celebrations made their way back at a snail's pace. 
After two nights of parades in a specially designed stadi­um, Rio's streets offered the last chance to celebrate before Ash Wednesday, which opens the 40-day period of peni­tence, sacrifice and reflection that precedes Easter in Roman Catholic tradition. 
"The Sambadrome is great, but we also have a super active street carnival," said the Rei Momo, or carnival king, Marcelo Reis, whose five­day reign also ends Wednesday. 
Parades wrapped up well after dawn in the Sambadrome, with the Beija Flor group mounting the final performance in a bid for its third straight championship. 
The stadium competition has become the centerpiece of Brazil's carnival, beamed across this nation of 183 mil­lion people who root for their favorite samba groups with a passion usually reserved for soccer teams. Fourteen of Rio's top samba groups vied for a distinction that brings lit­tle more than bragging rights. 
Fact mingled with fiction in one parade. The TV Globo net­work placed several actors from its telenovela "Senhora de Destino" among the mem­bers of the Grande Rio samba group and filmed them as members of a fictional samba group, Vila Sao Miguel. 
Although the stadium's 60,000 seats sold out long ago, crowds milled around the entrances in hopes of a glimpsing the festivities and the TV stars. 
The Portela samba group, which sang the praises of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals for tack­ling poverty, attracted a hand­ful of U.N. representatives from Brazil. 
Their presence, however, was overshadowed by British supermodel Naomi Campbell, who paraded in a skimpy blue sequined costumed atop one of the 11oats. 
''I've never been at an event as spectacular as this. it's indescribable," Campbell told reporters. ''I'm just thankful to be here." 
In Sao Paulo. the s·amba group Imperio da Casa Verde was declared this year's cham­pion. 
In the northeastern city of Salvador, street revelers cele­brate well past sunrise. After pausing to let street cleaners pass through, the party re.sumed around noon. 
Operation Rice Bowl returns for Lent 
By TRICIA de GROOT News Writer 

For some Notre Dame stu­dents, the beginning of Lent means giving up sweets or finding no meat in the dining halls on Fridays. But for the second time in several years. many will participate in Operation Rice Bowl -an opportunity for generosity ­starting today. 
This collection, which raises money for Catholic Charities around the world, elicited slightly over $4,000 last year and hopes to raise $10,000 from the 5,000 bowls distrib­uted this Lenten season. 
The Class of 2005 will be handing out the bowls today to undergraduates at the resi­dence halls, and students and faculty alike are encouraged to donate their change throughout the season. 
Seventy-l'ive percent of the donations will be given to Catholic Relief Services around the world while the remaining 25 percent will be used in the local dioceses. 
"Catholic Relief Services is in dire need of contributions at this time because they have used and continue to use many of their funds to aid all those affected by the Tsunami disaster," said Brin Anderson, who started the campaign with Julia Miller-Lemon last year. 
Notre Dame is one of over 14,000 schools. parishes and community faith groups across the nation to partici­pate in this project, which became the official program of the Catholic Helief Services during the Lenten season in 1977. 
Initiated by a Catholic 
priest, Jewish rabbi and Protestant minister in an attempt to bring their Pennsylvania communities together in the fight against hunger. Operation Hice Bowl celebrates its 30th year of service this year. 
"Our hope would be that Operation Hice Bowl will become an annual campaign at Notre Dame. and in turn. with each year, we feel that its popularity will grow." Anderson said. 
Contact Tricia de Groot at pdegroot@nd.edu 


Thirsty for knowledge? 
Say when. 
At Ernst & Young, the opportunity for growth is enormous. We offer over 
7,000 professional development programs -some of the best formal 
learning programs in the country -because our philosophy is People First. 
We recognize that our employees are essential to the firm's growth and
FORTUNE' 

success. And in order to attract the best talent, we've built an environment100 BEST that Fortune"' magazine has consistently recognized as one of the "100 Best COMPANIESg Companies To Work For." So whether you're looking for a place to grow or a TO WORK FOR~ great place to work, look for our recruiters on campus. ey.com;us;careers 
Audit • Tax • Transaction Advisory Services i!/ERNST&YOUNG 
Quality In Everything We Do 
.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, Wednesday, February 9, 2005 page 9
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Debate 
continued from page 1 
45 minutes Tuesday night. In front of a crowd likely depleted by tht~ Notre Dame­Boston College men's basket­ball game -and with that game blaring in the back­ground -the candidates delivt~red opening and closing statements that highlighted their t~xpe rie nee in student govt1rnment, and responded to both prepared and audi­ence qtwstions in between. 
Tlw prosptH:t of asking the Board of Trustees to add a studt•n t nw mlw r. an idtHl that apJ>Pars on both Baron and l.eito's platforms, offertHI the. eandidates tlw dt~bate's first ehance to dil'f't•rentiate. 
I. rd t o a n d B o n g i o v a n n i s t rt~ s sod the importance of having a student sit in on trustee discussions involving student life. and pointed to 
the 2002 alcohol policy changes as an example of how the student body could have benefited from greater Board representation. 
"We understand and respect the position of the Board," Bongiovanni said, adding she and Leito plan to use their entire administra­tion to prove student leaders are worthy of the Board's respect in return. 
Baron, who is currently the ehief executive assistant for student body president Adam Istvan and vice president Karla Bell, countered with a positive description of his own presentations to the Board this year, most recently Thursday's ""Issues of Equality: Creating a Welcoming Environment for All, Part I: The Situation." 
But Baron said he and Shappell would only support adding a student trustee if these presentations, delivered three times a year, are 

INCOME TAX PREPARATION 
Daniel F Osberger, CPA & MHA Call to 1\leet at Your Campus Office or Home W: 246-1165 C: 514-7453 0.1JIJ I,.INANCIAL SERVICES ( )sberger Accounting Solutions & Investment Services 
203 S. Ironwood Drive South Bend, IN 46556 I•:-mail: Dan.( )sberger@Comcast.Net 

allowed to continue. 
"We don't think that !gain­ing! a student on the Board of Trustees is worth losing the right to agenda," Baron said. 
Another shared platform promise that forced the can­didates to delve into details was the creation of a pro­gramming endowment. 
ter-or $5 million total -as the Leito ticket's goal. 
"This is a growing process, it's·not $5 million or noth­ing," she said. "But we have to let the administration know it's our goal, it's what we're shooting for." 
After briefly summarizing 
what they view 
as their biggest 

Shappell reit­"We're looking for student govern­erated her tick­ment accom­
a million because
et's commitment plishments and 
we think it's 
to soliciting failures and their $900,000 of feasible -it's a self-described alumni money to leadership
starting point. " 
add to the strengths and $100,000 she weaknesses, the and Baron pro­Lizzi Shappell candidates pose to take vice presidential responded to from an existing audience ques­
candidate 
student govern­ment earryover account -bringing the total to $1 million. or a $50.000 yield per semester. 
"We're looking for a million because we think it's feasible -it's a starting point," Shappell said 
Bongiovanni quickly coun­tered $50,000 per semester "is not enough" to consistent­ly bring both speakers and concerts to Notre Dame and named $250,000 per semes­
tions, several of 
which  were  
diversity-based.  
Bongiovanni  and  Baron  

both cited Senate research into issues of diversity at other universities, adding their work will be a major basis for the spring Board of Trustees report, "Issues of Equality: Creating a Welcoming Environment for All, Part II: The Solution." 
In response to an audience question that asked the can­

11~ '4 'D4e1 Sftedai 
1 Dozen Roses, Bouquet $27.99 
CASH AND CARRY, PRE-ORDERS ONLY OTHER SERVICES WITH DELIVERY AVAILABLE 
MUST CALL BEFORE WEDNESDAY, 2/9/05 
The Primitive Heart and Nursery 
Located at 103 Dixie Way North in Roseland 
Order Now! 272-0970 
dictates if they view Notre Dame students as racist, all four disagreed with the description but recognized the need to change the University's often "unwelcom­ing" environment towards minorities. 
"We lack a certain sensitivi­ty," said Baron. calling him­self a "communicator" who as president could facilitate dia­logue between minority and majority students. 
"We can't talk about race if we aren't faced with it every day," he said. 
Leito and Bongiovanni agreed that Notre Dame stu­dents often lack thP basic knowledge to intelligently address diversity. 
"This is a growing process. this is a long-tPrm process," Bongiovanni said. "We want to make this a more comfort­ing place." 
In their closing statements, both tickets praised t h ~~ strong leadership qualif'ica­tions of all thP rPmaining candidates, but tried to demonstrate what makes them unique. 
Baron and Shappell said tlwir passion and overall goal was to bring "tlw entin~ stu­dent body together." 
"That's whern we think stu­dent government needs to go," Baron said, "and that's where we want to take it." 
Leito and Bongiovanni stressed their consistent involvement in and devotion to student governnwnt. 
"I put my whole heart into this," Leito said. "I love every facet of student government. whether it's work or play." 
Contact Claire Heininger at 
cheining@nd.edu 
CENTER FOR SociAL CoNCERNS ~UNIVERSITY OF WNOTREDAME Volunteer Opportunities Food Collection A local Hispanic parish is in need of food ro help supporr sev­eral families. If interested in orga­nizing your dorm or a section of your dorm to adopt a family and collect food items (like Grab-n­Go) plea..~e call Felipe at 1-7847 or Marisol at 234-3303. Errands An elderly woman in the South Bend community needs someone to help her with her errands, such as buying groceries. She is very grateful to the two NO students who helped her last year. ller name is Francis and her number is 288-3330. Babysitting La Casa de Amistad holds a meeting for mothers called "Comadres" the third Thursday ofevery month. Volunteers are needed to rake care ofabout 5-l 0 childre~ from 4:30-6:30pm. Please contact Marcia Good at mgood 1 @nd.edu. Spanish Speakers The Notre Dame Immigra­tion Clinic needs volunteers who are fluent in Spanish both to translate legal documents and to help with clients. The clinic is on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 5-7pm. Contact Barbara Szweda at 1-7637, if interested.  The Social Ethics ofJudaism Featuring Elliot Bartky, Program ofLiberal Studies. When: Wednesday, February 9 at 7 p.m. Where: Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium Gospel Non-Violence Lenten Reflection Fr. Charles Emmanuel McCarthy will be joining us for dinner, followed by Gospel Non-violence Lenten Reflection/Lecture Fr. Charlie was nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize in 1992. He is a Mel kite Catholic priest, married, with 13 children, founder of the Program for the study and practice of non-violent conflict resolution at Notre Dame, and co-founder of Pax Crisri USA along with Dorothy Day and Tom Cornell. When: Thursday, February I 0, 5:30 Dinner, 6:30 Talk Where: CSC Coffee House Re-Imagining God and Mission Stephen Bevans, S.V.D., Professor ofMission and Culture at the Catholic Theological Union, will speak as part ofThe Holy Cross Mission Lecture at Notre Dame. When: Sunday, February 13 at 7:15p.m. Where: Moreau Seminary Auditorium, Discussion and Reception to follow Human Rights Watch International Film Festival A film festival focusing on human rights during the week of February 14. The festival is co-sponsored by the Kroc Institute. A complete list of films is available here. When: February 14-17, 200~ Where: Saint Mary's College, Carroll Auditorium  ACCION Business Internship Applications are available at the Center for Social Concerns for the 10-week ACCION interships in 7 major U.S. cities. Ap­plications are due February 20. ACCION provides loans and business training to persons who would like to start their own business but have no credit history. This internship is open to junior and senior business students. Interns receive a $3,000 scholarship plus a living stipend. The program is built into a course which gives 2 business cred­its and 1 theology credit. Contact Andrea Smith Shappell (Shappell.! @nd.edu) for more information. Deadline for Summer Service Project Internship is Feb. 22 The SSPI is an eight-week service-learning experience at roughly 200 agencies and organizations throughout the Unites States. Students are provided the opportunity to witness un­derserved populations first hand by working for, and with, the clients and staff at each site. Students receive: • $2000 tuition scholarship • Valuable alumni contacts • 3 Credits Theology, with possible cross-lists. Contact Andrea Smith Shappell (Shappell.! @nd.edu) for more information. Lunch Fast to Support Tsunami Relief To support tsunami disaster relief efforts, Notre Dame stu­dents can sign up to participate in the Wednesday Lunch Fast. Once you register, NO Food Services will make a donation based on the cost ofyour Wednesday lunch for the remainder ofspring semester. Register at https:/ /www3.nd.edu/ ~socconcn about/tsunamiform.shrml  

Wednesday, February 09, 2005

page 10 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

H Tiopeta rou I:raupou Ch~ng Dang Thanh Giii Lc Chemin de Ia Croix Via Crucis Korsets Vag Njia ya Msalaba 
~.....s':\1"6Jior< 
La Via Crucis 
+*~0)~ 

THE WAY OF THE CROSS 
ifli~~Ziii 

UzoNkeObe La Via de la Cruz ,\. <"\1 :u .L



L ... 
~~ 

Ang Daan ng Krus KpecTHbiM llyTb 
oKrizu 

Ekkubo Ly'omusaalaba 
Der Kreuzweg 

0 caminho da Cruz Triq ta Salib Droga Krzyiowa 

+ 
+ 

THE WAY OF THE CROSS 
' An exhibition of prints designed by John F Sherman 
Department C?JArt, Art History &_Design 
February 9-March 28 Our Lady Seat of Wisdom Chapel Malloy Hall 
+ 
Related event on: 

Thursday, February 10, at 5pm and Friday, February 11, at 1pm Our Lady Seat of Wisdom Chapel Malloy Hall 
Thejollowing talk will be offered on both occasions: The Development and Practice ifthe Stations ifthe Cross Theresa Sherman, senior Theofo[JY ma1or and 
A Designer's Rtiflection on The Way ofthe Cross 
John F Sherman 
+ 

A meditation hookkt will he available in the chapel to aid with the devotion of this scriptural Way of the Cross. Except for scheduled Masses at noon on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday or when classes arc scheduled in the chapel, the exhibition is aYailablc. 
+ 

support has been receivedjrom 
Department of Art, Art History & Design Department of Theology Center for Creative Computing 
+ 

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---­
Wednesday, February 9, 2005 page II
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 


Classes 
continued from page I 
of tlwse values. that this is the consd1mce of soci1~ty, whereas otlwrs would say students an~n't gt~tting a fair perspec­tive." 
;\ n~ c~~ n t e d i to r i a I i n T h e Economist discussed the rela­tionship between polilics and tlw university in i\mcriea. Its first lirw was "If you loathe political d!~hat<~. join the faculty of an i\nwrican university." 
Tlw editorial nol!~d the two largest employee group contri­butions to the 2004 Kerry cam­paign wt~rn by the faculty and staff at UC-Berkeley and llarvard University 
n~ad the editori­
a I. " 0 n t hn !lll e 
hand, colleges bend over back­ward to hire minority profes­sors and recruit minority stu­dents ... yet when it comes to politics. tlwy are not just indif­fen~nt to diversity, they are downright allergic to it." 
Philosophy professor Kenneth Sayn~ said he believes tension between d1nnocrats and rnpub­lirans in academia is a micro­cosm of the larger red stal!~/blue state division many claim is tearing the coasts apart from tlw heartland. and the cities from their suburbs. 
"You can't be moderate in today's political climate and be effective," Sayre said. "That kind of' polarization is definitely on the scene now, and it's fairly recent." 
Sayre said a unified coalition of moderates in academia and in government could be the bridge for an increasingly polarized nation. 
"What I would like to see, both in national politics and at the university level, would in effect be a cooperative, mutu­ally respectful joining of inter­ests by moderates of all politi­cal stripes," he said. 
Philosophy professor David Solomon, on the other hand, believes the problem is not heightened partisanship. but rather onc-sidedness. 
"I don't think there's much polarization in the American academy," Solomon said. "I 
think there's con­formity ... There is a rigid set of views, a kind of code of acceptable political views in the American academe that's q uitc strictly enforced. Divergent voices are not respected much." 
But notions of liberalism and conservatism themselves arc 

alwad of Time Warner. Goldman Sachs and Microsoft. 
"Academia is simultaneously both thP part of ;\ nw r i c a t h at i s 
most  obsess1HI  
with  diversity.  
and  thP  l1~ast  

diVPrse part of tlw country," 
"/ think ifan institution doesn't encourage a more liberal view of life and society. then it's not doing it job. .. 
Kenneth Sayre philosophy professor 
also becoming more moderate, several professors said. 
Solomon believes such a lack of strong extreme positions on the right and left can make academic debate at universities quite tepid. 
"It would be false to say that everybody at the university's radically left," Solomon said. "Nobody's radically left in this country. The academy consists of squishy-in-the-middle liber­als for the most part, and that's the orthodoxy ... I think that's the danger of the American academe, that it makes discus­sions really boring, because basically everybody agrees on certain types of issues." 

Solomon also mentioned the tension between academia and America at large, citing the fact academia as a whole seems to have come to a gener­al consensus with regard to many issues that are still mat­
ters  of  serious  contention  
throughout the  rest  of the  
country.  

"Maybe it's just that the sim­ple truth about the world is the set of views academics have come upon [are] out of touch ... with American voters because [professors arc] smarter than the majority of American vot­ers, and really do sec the truth more clearly," said Solomon. 
Sayre discussed the ideas of conservatism and liberalism beyond the red/blue dichotomy that is so prevalent in the United States today, harkening back to what he believes is the purpose of a liberal arts educa­tion. 
"I think if an institution does­n't encourage a more liberal view of life and society. then it's not doing its job," Sayre said. "The liberal arts are not named as they arc for no rea­son ... Tlwir goal is to liberate you. to 1~xpand your horizons and as you expand your hori­zons you're going to get less conservative." 
Sayre elaborated, arguing that the broadening of world­view that ought to take place at universities should free them from a narrow-minded, dog­matic provincialism. 
"As you expand your range of experience and your range of knowledge of things that are happening in the world, your views of things become much more inclusive," he said, "and the more inclusive your views are, the less they arc going to tend to be summarized or sum­marizable in a set of percep­tions and political positions that emphasize orthodoxy." 
Contact Michael Busk at mbusk@nd.edu 

Break-ins 
continued from page 1 
Wasnick between the hours of 9:15 a.m. and 3 p.m., as well as the quad of sopho­mores Jake Benedict, Mike Elpers. Jerremy Moreno and /\dam Record between the hours of 10:15 a.m. and 
2:15 p.m .. according to records on the NDSP crime blotter. 
According to Wasnick. the alleged suspect stole a watch and $26 in cash from his room. The residents of the quad could not be reached for comment Tuesday, but the alleged suspect took jewelry, DVDs and "consumer electronics" from the room, Johnson said. 
Wasnick's next-door neighbor, sophomore Teddy Weltncr, spotted the alleged suspect sitting on Wasnick's futon looking at his Playstation when Wellner poked his head in the room. Wasnick said. Wellner could not be reached for comment Tuesday. 
According to Wasnick, Wellner described the alleged suspect as a "bigger, intimidating black male in his mid 50's." 
When Wellner inquired into Wasnick's whereabouts. the man replied grufl'ly, "'Paul's not here."' Wasnick 


Duerson 
continued from page I 
said Dave and Alicia Duerson were out of town Tuesday and deferred comment to family spokesman Miteh Hosen. 
Rosen. who rel!~ased a statement from Dave Duerson Monday night. declined to comment further on the family's legal proceed­ings Tuesday. 
Dvorak declined to com­ment on Alicia Duerson's degree of participation with the state of Indiana in bring­ing the charges. 
Alicia Duerson told Notre Dame Security/Police officers Thursday "that her husband had become upset with her in the hotel room and began striking her about the head and body ... land] she was thrown out of the room by her husband," according to the supplemental al'fidavit, signed by NDSP Lt. Pat Cotrcll. 
Though the charges state Dave Duerson "did knowingly touch Alicia Duerson in a rude, insolent or angry man­ncr ... striking or choking her," Dvorak declined to clarify whether Alicia Duerson was allegedly struck or choked. lie declined to release further details about the encounter or the status of the alleged victim. 
Each count filed against Dave Duerson is a class i\ misdemeanor punishable by up to one year in jail and a $5,000 fine, said Catherine Wilson, Dvorak's assistant. However, any sentencing that would occur if Dave Duerson were convicted would take into account whether or not the defendant has a past criminal record, Dvorak said. 
Dvorak said the prosecu­tor's office chose to lilc two counts of battery and two 

said. 
"I think the guy was plan­n i ng o n t a k i ng It lu~ Playstationl," Wasnick said, "but IWeltnerl scared him out of' it." 
The alleged suspect has made otiJPr attempts, said Dominic i\ngiollo, tlw assis­tant rector of Fislwr llall. 
"We've had a couple stu­dents say they saw sonw­body come in their room and essentially chased them out," i\ngiollo said, declin­ing to name additional stu­dents. "Another student saw some body wand e ri·ng through the hall." 
i\ngiollo declined to give a description of an alleged suspect. 
The first students robbed on Jan. 29 did not alert Fisher Hall Staff, i\ngiollo said. When the .Jan. 31 bur­glary took place, the staff became aware of the first incident, i\ngiollo said. and immediate Iy not il'i ed t lw hall by e-mail. Following tlw most recent Feb. 2 inci­dents. tlw staff left Fislwr rc~sid!'nts a phorw nwssagP, i\ngiollo said. 
NDSI' urges studonts to lock their rooms while away or while asleep, and not to allow people unknown to them into their residence halls, Johnson said. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd.edu 
counts of domestic battery so the prosecutor could attempt to prove battery charges without the burden of' prov­ing Alicia Duerson is Dave Duerson's wife. 
Should Dave Duerson be convicted on all four counts, the doctrine of merger dic­tates he could only be pun­ished for two counts, Dvorak said. 
The incident was first brought to NDSP attention by repn~sentatives of' ThP Morris Inn, particularly tlw night auditor, who n~cPived phone calls from occupants on tho second floor regarding fighting in the lluersons' room. the affidavit states. The affidavit does not nanw the night auditor, NDSI' oiTi­c c r s o r o t he r w i t rw s s e s . Dvorak said the prosecutor's 
ofl'i c e i s c o m p11! Ie d by Indiana Suprnnw Court law to withhold witnesses' names. 
Dvorak added he did not believe all witnesses· to tlw incident w1~re Morris Inn employees and derlirwd to give an estimate of the num­ber of' witnesses except to say there were mor<' than two. 
Dave Duerson, who gradu­ated from Notr!' DamP in l!JX] after playing dei'Pnsiv!~ back for tlw Irish from 11)71)· 83, twice won i\ll-Anwrican honors. lin went on to win two Super Bowls in tlw NFI.. lie is also founder, president and CEO of Duerson l'oods, LLC, and he and Alicia Duerson are both on the company's Board of Directors. 
Charles January. a security supervisor at Duerson Foods, LLC, said the eompany will not issue a public statement on the Ducrsons' status and that "the matter is being handled privately." 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 


r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 12 Wednesday, February 9, 2005 
The Observer + NEWS 
AFGHANISTAN 



No survivors found in plane crash lVreckage 
Associated Press 
KABUL --All 104 people aboard an Afghan airliner that hit a snow-covered mountain last week are dead, authorities said Thesday, confirming the country's worst air disaster, 
NATO and Afghan soldiers man­aged to inspect the crash site, 20 miles east of the capital. on Monday, fmding human remains among the scattered wreckage and deep snow, but no signs of life. 
"The troops found that no one was left alive from the crash," said a statement from an Afghan gov­ernment commission investigating the disaster, offering condolences to the victims' families. "Now the search and rescue operation is complete, the recovery operation has started to investigate the cause of the crash." 
The Boeing 737 operated by Kam Air, Afghanistan's first post­Taliban private airline, vanished from radar screens Thursday after it approached Kabul airport in a blizzard from the western city of Herat. There were 96 passen­gers and eight crew on board, most of them Afghans, but also 

I •
I 
2005 
How to Becmne a 

Bookstore Basketball Commissioner 

1. 
Download the form at WWW.nd .edu/"'bksfr 


2. 
Return to 314 Lafortune by 3 PM, Friday, Feb. 18111 

3. 
Sign up for an interview outside 314 Lafortune 



Interviews will be held during the week of February 21-24 

Required to attend meetings and work 3-4 days per week during the tournament 
*& pari ofthe Worlds Greatest find Lflrgest 

Outdoor 5 on 5 &sk.etbaY 
Toull'Niment 
including nine Turks, six Americans, four Russians and three Italians. 
Afghan authorities say the cause of the crash remains a mystery and they are calling in U.S. experts to help investigate. The aircraft's flight recorder has yet to be found. 
NATO helicopters spotted part of the wreckage on Saturday, but freezing fog, low clouds and up to 8 feet of snow have limited their visits to the scene to just a few hours so far. 
The commission said Tuesday that the plane hit near an old mili­tary lookout dating back to the Soviet occupation of the 1980s and that the site was mined. 
Relentless snowfall kept govern­ment troops from scaling the 11,000-foot Chaperi Mountain anew Tuesday, and it grounded NATO helicopters poised to ferry medics and investigators from Kabul airport. 

Hunger has no boundaries. • • 


What are Y 0 U doing to help? 
PARTICIPATE IN OPERATION RICE BOWL FEBRUARY 9-MARCH 23 


SEE A HALL PRES!DENT/RA FOR INFOMRATION OR COJ\TACT llo\'\DJ-.RS6W Nll.ll!L 
UNlVERSITYOF INSIDEND ~
tJNOTRE DAME 

NOTRE DAHf!'S ONLINE COHHVNITY 

Discover 


What's http://inside.nd.edu 
Inside 



Church clarifies annul:rnent rules 
Papal criticism pushes Council to publish new guidelines 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY -The Vatican has clarified the guidelines it wants church judges to follow when making decisions on marriage annul­ments, saying Tuesday that it wants the practice that some critics have dubbed "Catholic divorce" handled more seri­ously. 
Publication of the compendi­um of canon Jaw aspects about marriage comes on the heels of the most recent criti­cism by Pope John Paul II, who complained that annul­ments are too easily obtained and expressed worry that tri­bunals face the risk of corrup­tion. 
"In the context of a divorce mentality, even canon processes of annulment cases can be easily misunderstood. as if they weren't anything more than ways to obtain a divorce with the blessing of the church." said Cardinal Julian Herranz. head of the Pontifical Council for Legislative Texts. who pre­sented the new guidelines to reporters. 
For Catholics who want to remarry, annulment is their only hope of being able to do so in the church, which for­bids divorce. 
Among the reasons church tribunals grant annulments are impotence. refusal by a spouse to have children, and psychological immaturity at the time of saying "I do." 
Critics of the annulment process contend the last rea­son is frequently interpreted too loosely. They also suggest 
U.S. diocesan tribunals are too generous in embracing canon law loopholes, pointing to the lopsided statistics: annulments decreed by U.S. dioceses account for roughly two-thirds of all those granted worldwide to faithful. 
"Nobody misses the fact that human frailty can make it possible that true justice did­n't happen in a specific case or that it didn't come swiftly," the cardinal said, acknowledg­ing flaws in the church's sys­tem. 
But the church is deter­mined, Herranz said, "to per­severe in the intent to improve handling both in terms of seri­ousness and swiftness ... and to render all the tribunal's decisions more harmonious." 
At John· Paul's orders, experts compiled guidelines contained in revised canon law and interpretations of the last two decades by Church courts but added no new rules. The previous such com­pendium dates to 1936. The instructions issued Tuesday. "Dignitas Connubii," is based on the 1983 Code of Canon Law. 
A densely packed document of more than 200 pages, it covers all canonical provisions and guild<~lin<~s concerning marriage and annulment. 


Wednesday, February 9, 2005 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 13 

Mardi Gras festivities 
attract sparse crowd 
Associated Press 
NEW OHLEANS -Mardi Gras costumes were sparse but so wern the crowds Tuesday as the annual extravaganza of paradns and parties arrived earlier than usual because of a quirk in the calendar. 
"This is the smallest I've seen il in at least the last 10 years," Police Chief Eddie Compass said after posing for a picture with a group of women wearing grass skirts and coconut shells. "I think it's the early date and the rain." 
The annual pre-Lent celebra­tion. a combination of family party and Bacchanalian blowout, still resembled the same jubilant citywide specta­cle il has been for over a centu­ry -it was just a bit easier to get around. 
Along St. Charles Avenue, the normally jam-packed street had stretches of empty spaces when the Zulu Social Aid & Pleasure Club, the first of 11 parades Tuesday. made its way past. 
The problem was partly that Fat Tuesday is the earliest this year it's been in 15 years -so far from spring break that it kept much of the college crowd away. 
And while Tuesday was cloudy but mild. with the tem­perature around 70. rain had fallen Monday and during the night, turning some spots muddy. 
"It's definitely off," said Fallon Daunhauer, a bartender at Johnny White's in the French Quarter for 21 years. "I think both things hurt. It's not the best weather and it's so early. Too close to Christmas, not close enough to spring break to get the college kids in." 
On Bourbon Street, where college students and others trade beads for glimpses of flesh, normally crowded bal­conies held fewer people. 
In the French Quarter, mer­chants marked Mardi Gras T­shirts down to five for $20 or less. Vendors hawking beads, hats, feather boas and other trinkets along the parade route also said business was poor. 
"We're not making any money," said Vinney Lucus of Cranston, H.l., whose uncle has been selling along the parade routes for 10 years. "But you aren't so mobbed, so there's less stolen." • 
Mardi Gras, which capped 11 days and more than 70 parades, kicked off with dozens of marching groups parading through the streets at dawn. Mayor Hay Nagin toasted the faux monarchs of each parade and turned rule of the city over to Hex, the king of Carnival. 
"It's been very peaceful," Compass said. "We haven't really had any trouble on the parade routes or in the Quarter. People are just having fun." 


Bush calls for freedotn at hotne 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President Bush, whose relationship with black lawmakers has been strained over the last four years, told black leaders Tuesday that the United States can not carry freedom abroad while holding "the baggage of bigotry" at home. 
Bush welcomed black lead­ers to the East Room of the White House to celebrate black history month. 
"Success of freedom on the home front is critical to its success in foreign lands," Bush said. "As I said in my inaugural address, we cannot carry the message of free­dom and the baggage of big­otry at the same time." 
Bush noted legislation he signed in 2003 to create the National Museum of African American History and Culture within the Smithsonian Institution. The president and his wife. Laura, made a contribution. for an undisclosed amount, to construction of the muse­um. 
"It's important that our children know that there was a time in their nation's histo­ry when one in every seven human beings was the prop­erty of another," he said. adding that bigotry and dis­crimination did not end with slavery. 
"Americans were still barred by law from hotels and restaurants, made to drink from separate water fountains, forced to sit in the back of a bus -all because of the color of their skin. We need to teach them about the heroes of the civil rights movement, who by their courage and dignity forced America to confront the cen­tral defect of our founding." 
Those who attended the event included Dorothy lleight, 92, who spent 30 years as the president of the National Council of Negro Women: members of ~he original Tuskegee Airmen, a group of minority pilots who excelled in· the era of Jim Crow; Frederick Douglas IV. great-great-grandson of the famed abolitionist, and actress Cicely Tyson. 
Bush's relations with the black community have been strained the past four years. 

Longtime CBS reporter dies 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -George Herman, a longtime political reporter for CBS News and the longest serving moderator of the network's Sunday talk show, "Face the Nation," died Tuesday. He was 85. 
The cause of his death at The George Washington University Hospital was heart failure after a long illness, the network said. 
Herman began his career in political reporting from Washington as CBS' White House correspondent during President Eisenhower's first term. I le held that post during President Kennedy's adminis­tration as well. 
lie was host of the net­work's Sunday morning public affairs show on television and radio for nearly 15 years, 1969-1983, the longest tenure in the 50-year history of "Face the Nation." 
Herman joined CBS as a 
radio newswriter in 1944 and was affiliated with the net­work for 43 years. lie was quick to embrace television and made his first appearance analyzing caucus declarations at the 1948 Democratic Convention in Philadelphia. the first to be televised. 
In 1949, he traveled to Asia as a stringer with a 16mm camera and audio recorder and provided CBS News with its first sound and film reports from abroad. 

Law& • • • An Interdisciplinary Colloquium Series February 9, 2005 4:00p.m. Law School Courtroom The Effects of Welfare and Tax Reform: The Material Well-Being ofSingle Mothers in the 1980s and 1990s Presenter James Sullivan Department ofEconomics and Econometrics Commentator Michael Kirsch The LawSchool  

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 14 Wednesday, February 9, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Crazy little thing called active love 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt.Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
WF.B ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter 
CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631·4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 
News DesK 
(574) 631·5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoinc.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.!@nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK smc.l@nd.edu PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's C..ollege. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Ediror in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not n=sarily rhose ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contaet information. 
~stions "Karding Observerpolicios should~ directed to Editor in ChiefMatt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob,~t,'tVL'T (USPS 599 2·4000) is publliht'd Monday duo ugh fridMy m:epr during o.:aru md vaca.rion ~iadt, A 'ubscription ro The Observc:r is $100 for one: ac:ukmk ~· S:S5 for one: ktnatct. 
'T'hc-Obse¥~ is publiiht-d u: I'OSTMASTER 1124 South Dining Hal! Send add.reu Gmttaioru ro: NOU'C' Dame:, IN 46~56..0779 TheOb~~erver PctiOOical pouagc paid at Norrt Dame P.O. llm779 ILtlda.JdicionalmailingofficeL 024 South Dining Hall 
Notrt' Dame. IN 46556-0779 
The Obscr'l'(r II a mcmhcr uf me: ~:ueJ Pn:u. AJI rtproJ.uccion righa iiiC: rc~:rvt:d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Megan O'Neil Kate Gales Amanda Michaels Eric Retter Lisa Schultz Ryan Kiefer Viewpoint Scene Becca Rosswurm Maria Smith Graphics Illustrator Graham Ebetsch Graham Ebetsch 

With Valentine's Day under a week away, 1 thought I might weigh in with some quaint reflections on the topic du jour -love. Before we plunge into the American slushy mantra of chocolate swe~ts and Hallmark Peter maxims. perhaps we Quaranto 
ought to reflect upon this evasive, intricate "crazy little thing A Call to Action 
called love." 
Especially in a university setting, the picking is ripe for erotic queries, ranging from the sociological to the theological, from the epistemological to the mathe­matical. Yet, all inquiries lead to one: What is the meaning of love? That is the question that I not only pose in this col­umn. but attempt to answer. 
The historical narrative of Valentine's Day contains vestiges of both ancient Rome and early Christianity. The Christian feast day of St. Valentine's was set at the time of the Roman pagan Lupercalia festival. a period of purifica­tion for homes, livestock and most of all, women. In ancient times on thisfestival day, boys would run around, slapping women with strips of goat's hide in the hopes of increasing fertility. 
The feast of St. Valentine specifically arose, though, from the life of Valentine, a third century priest who was executed for refusing to consent to the outlaw of mar­riage by the militarized Roman state. It is also believed that Valentine's state execu­tion transpired because he helped Christians escape from brutal prisons. Thus, Valentine's Day is really a celebra­tion of the legacy of a man's courageous acts of public defiance and civil disobedi­ence against the unjust legal system of an empire-state. Go figure. 
According to the ancient Greek tradi­tion, there are three types or forms of love -eros, philia and agape. The first being intense. sexual passion, while the second is committed appreciation or respect. Finally, agape, the selfless form of love, puts the good of the other before the good of one's self. Given the guidance of the Greeks, it would appear that the ideal love is some amalgamation of the three. 
Yet, can love be so easily pigeonholed by Platonic forms and Aristotelian logic? Over the years since the reign of the Greeks, there is much in literary tradition that gives life to the contours of our understanding of love. In Leo Tolstoy's epic novel. "War and Peace," Prince Andrew exclaims, "Love is life. All, every­thing that I understand, I understand only because I love. Everything is, everything exists, only because I love." Prince Andrew seems to thrust aside Descartes' "cogito ergo sum" for some form of "amo ergo sum." I love. therefore I am. 
Perhaps. though, the German philoso­pher Friedrich Nietzsche said it best: "Every great love brings with it the cruel idea of killing the object of its love ... " Nietzsche, the great nihilistic, believed that traditional Western philosophy, par­ticularly Christian thought, Leads us to servile morality, and consequently, servile love that consumes us. In some ways, Nietzsche's discussion oflove runs paral­lel with that of the character Rosalind, in the Shakespearean play "As You Like It," who pronounces, "Love is merely a mad­ness." 
I think, however, Nietzsche tends to overlook the softer, gentler, non-killing side oflove. Another Shakespeare charac­ter, in "Love's Labor's Lost," speaks of that softness: "Love's feeling is more soft and sensible than the tender horns of cockled snails." What is softer than tender horns of cockled snails? Yes, true love makes even the hardest warriors the gentlest poets. Would it be unjust to call love transformative? 
According to Rainer Maria Rilke, it would be quite just. He proclaims, "For one human being to love another: that is perhaps the most difficult of our tasks; the ultimate, the last test and proof; the work for which all other work is but prepara­tion." In his writings, Rilke speaks of love in action more than love as a state. He contends that active love is a way of liv­ing, a way of seeing, a way 6f relating authentically and truthfully. 
This concept of "active love" is also articulated in Fyodor Dostoevsky's The Brothers Karamazov, a book that includes everything there is to know about life. In the book. Father Zossima declares. "Love in action is a harsh and dreadful thing compared to love in dreams." Harsh and dreadful-quite. Transformative -cer­tainly. 
In our recent times, we have come to accentuate the more velvety, cushy, chocolaty, orgasmic elements of love. From the axioms of the card companies to the thrill of "Desperate Housewives," we have assented to a glorified quick-fix romance of dreams. That is not to denounce modern Valentim~·s Day. but to draw attention to its incompleteness. Are we not dishonest and foolish to disregard the rich tradition of understanding love that runs through pagan fertility rituals. Christian anti-establishment radicalism, Aristotelian ethics, Shakespearean mono­logues and Dostoevskyian moral psychol­ogy? 
All things considered, though, it is quite foolish to attempt to define love intellectu­ally, rationally or even irrationally for it is beyond our tools of comprehension or articulation. I will simply venture to state this: love is lived in defying, trusting, grieving, sacrificing, blessing, empathiz­ing among other things. Love is an active verb, not a passive noun. So in five days, enjoy your chocolates as we celebrate a way of life, the greatest way of life. For Dostoevsky, as always, was right about the power and liberation of active love. 
Peter Quaranta is a junior political sci­ence and international peace studies major. lie writes from Kampala, Uganda this semester where he is studying. Contact Peter at pquarant@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
Do you feel your professors' political beliefs affect how they conduct themselves in the classroom? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www. ndsmcobserver. com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The basic formula of all sin is: frustrated or neglected love." 
Franz Werfel novelist 


THE. OHSE.RVE.R 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 9, 2005 
page 15 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Diversity provides sustenance 
Food outlnts do not exist to make the world a better placn, or even to provide people with nutritious food. Their institutional mandate is to increasn the profit of their shareholders. The tenuous justification for this structuring is that Americans should in theory desire nutri­tious food. and as such the most profitable 
food corporations would bn thosn that 
incentive could make journalists provide the most nutritious food. more, rather than less, likely to let But. as the catapulting of their political views affect their McDonald's and Dairy Queen reporting. to the top of their respective Even if we come to a satis­dicntPie charts demon­factory definition of media slratns. what Americans impartiality. and create an terHl to want most from outlet devoted to it. we what thny eat is to rnin­can't force people to forcc their prenxisting watch it. (I'll write a sep­tast«'s for junk food. arate letter for those of 
Chang1~ tlw words you -if any -who "food" and "nutritious" want to repeal the first to "rwws" and "unbi­amendment). Anyway, aSIHI." and you g1~t part just as there is nothing of the argunwnt unhealthy about eating Michanl Poffenberger a hamburger if it is fol­puts forth the claim that lowed by a game of ulti­"transforming media mate frisbee, there is nstablishments into more nothing wrong with read­transparnnt. publicly­. ing the New York Times if owned and not-for-profit Fox News is for dessert. organizations would drasti­What's more, with the cally improve thn quality of spread of the internet, every nnws and commentary." ,.~-~~~~ point of view has a chance in 
Is I'BS less hiasnd than other "' the public square. nnws organizations'? Perhaps, but 
Some problems in the media thnir audinnce is not particularly involve integrity and honesty, not 
largn. NI'B's radio news is very popular. but tlwy lnan a hit left. Was Dan Hather's slop­py journalism due to an effort to please stock­holdnrs'? More likely it was political bias at the root of tlw problem. 
Impartiality in the news is actually di!'ficult to dPfine. Issues on which most Americans agree will inevitably be handled in a one-sided fash­ion. We simply won't hear the viewpoint that women should not be allowed to vote, for example. That's good for those who believe that women ought to vote, but bad for those 
U-WIRE 
Thefacebook: there for support 
Today, I decided to see what this Thefacebook craze is all about. Little did I know, two hours later. with a deadline knocking at the door, I would still be engrossed in such a ridiculous 
waste of time.  
Surely, everyone has heard  Josh Mullins  
of this phenom1mon. If some­ 
 
one isn't a member. then he  West Virginia  
or she knows someone who is.  University  
And on the off chance people  The Daily  
don't, there is no way that  Athenaeum  
they haven't heard someone  
talking about it.  

Thefacebook (www.thefacebook.com), for those not in the know, is a Web site that allows users to sift through the vast numbers of peo­ple they have class with, pass on the street and see at the bar. Each has a profile filled with an obscene amount of personal information. Some even have their class schedules listed to make life easier on potential stalkers. 
"But how will I find people I know?" It's easi­er than one woufd think. If users enter class sched ulcs, they arc automatically connected to hundreds based solely on the classes they have in common. It's all downhill from there. 
There's no stopping after digging into Thnfaccbook. The amount of wasted time incrnases exponentially with every face. Each time a window of a friend's list of friends is opened. there will be more familiar people. m1ding with more wasted time. I thought the lntPrnet Movie Database trivia section was bad. 
Just when someone thinks they have found all of the people they know and the people those people know, the sitt~ strikes again. A multitude of search options lets users lind peo­who don't. Conversely, if a sufficient number of Americans hold an insane viewpoint, the media is forced to treat it as sane. A non-profit news outlet could choose between maintaining this standard, or making its own value judgments concerning which opinions are worthy of men­
tion. Either way, removing the profit 
bias. I agree with Poffenberger that journalists should disclose their con!licts of interest. I grant that free markets are not the a prior solution to every economic problem. But when it comes to food and news, the diversity in available products ensures that those with healthy tastes will be able to lind nourishing sustenance. 
Josh Cole Graduate Student Feb. 8 

pie they'd forgotten they didn't want to talk to ever again. 
There's an option for searching for people who graduated from a certain high school, which not only gives the people at the user's current school but also shows those brave souls who dared to attend an unfamiliar insti­tution. 
Aside from this, people can also be found through common interests. Thousands of groups are available on Thefacebook. Some are broad-based in their subject matter, but most are insanely specific, though still well repre­sented. Not surprisingly, Captain Morgan is the main subject of at least three of these groups. 
Hilarity ensues when users decide which groups to join. There are all sorts of gems, like the Anti-Lumberg group, which I can only assume detests TPS reports. Also, in the People with Messed Up Last Names Support Group, users can find unfortunate students saddled with names like "Bonecutter." 
Give it a look sometime. Stalkers, harass in the comfort of home. Socially inept, continue avoiding contact yet still feel like you've met people. And for the bored, well, have some­thing with which to fill your time. 
Personally. it's just one more thing to keep me from doing my work. I think I'll join WVU Procrastinators Anonymous if I ever get around to it. 
This column originally appeared in the Feb. 8 issue of The Daily Athenaeum. the daily publi­cation at West Virginia University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not those of The Observer. 

Keenan Revue: all in good fun 
I have always been told to stick to the advice that "until you try something, you cannot judge it." 
For example. to me. this means I cannot say I hat!' sushi because I have never tried it. To judge something based on outPr appnar­ances or hearsay is not a judgment at all. This being said, I do not understand how Paul Kellner and Maureen Hitchny think they can criticize and ridicule the Keenan lkvue. 
I knew that upon attending the Hevue. I would n1wd to go with an open mind and understand that this event takes placP in a fun. entertaining environment. and is not to be taken seriously in any way. I was looking forward to the jokes about the "more experi­enced" S1lint Mary's students as well as the sexual preference of Zahm 's residents. knowing these arc simply jokes. Being able to laugh at yourself and others makes lilt1 a lot easier. and I thought the Keenan Hevue was a nice break from the busy week I had just finished. 
Although I agree that some of the skit~ included n1pulsing, gross and crude material. I am sure none of the contents of the HPvLw were present to offend anyone. I enjoyed the Keenan Hevue and thought everyone involvnd in the production did a wondnrful job in accomplishing what they set out to do, make people laugh. So, in conclusion, congratulations to the Keenan Knighl<> on a job well done! 
Caitlin Fitzpatrick sophomore McCandle." H<~ll Feb. B 

~as that a joke? 

Paul Kellner and Maureen Ritchey, authors of the letter, "Revue hits all the wrong buttons." had to be joking. But, even so, I know that people who honestly believe what they wrote do exist. which is the only reason I write this letter. Blinded by the supposed goodness of their moral path in comparison to those who laugh/enjoy life. they describe the Hevue as "a theatrical monstrosity," "quite offnnsive" and "unequivocally demeaning to men." 
They openly admit that "neither of us actually attended the Revue this year," freely conceding that their entire argument is built on hearsay and assumptions. It does not matter if they are partially right and the Revue really is (gasp) "quite offensive." They are still entirely in the wrong in their assertion that Notre Dame, as a private university, should not condone such produc­tions so as to protect the "consenting adults" who see it. 
The authors, who base much of their argument on the sancti­ty of humanity, still see our "unity of [the) mind, body and tran­scendental spirit" as fragile enough to be instantly corrupted by exposure to a show that everyone knows is a comedy in the first place, contending that they "cannot stand idly by while this piece of performance art is being displayed to all of our friends who consented to view it and may even agree with the Hevue's underlying ideology." 
If they already agree with the "underlying ideology." then opt­ing not to attend the production will not change what Keller and Hitchey perceive to be the problem in the first placn. The only part of this episode that is truly demeaning to men is Keller and Hitchey's lack of faith in mankind's ability to make conscious decisions; if it really was a hoax (I cannot rule it out. since the article was wc1ll-written despitn its content flaws). well done. 
Joseph King freshman Siegfried Hall Feb. B 
TI-lE OBSERVER 






CENE

page 16 
Wednesday, February 9, 2005 

The play takes place in oughly sleazy as busi­Mucchetti supervised set By MARIA SMITH the era of the nessman Preysing. construction. Scene Editor Charleston, the ''I'm detestable," "Musical directing has 
speakeasy and the stock Anthony said. "It was a been a very rewarding 
The Pasquerilla East market bubble. Anti­little daunting at first experience for me," Musical Company's musi­Semitic sentiment is because it's very gross, Mucchetti said. "In my cal is a highlight of the beginning to emerge but I sort of got into it role as technical director, winter months every around Germany, eventually." it's been an enjoyable year. This group of stu­America still represents Senior Brian Grundy, process to see the trans­dent performers, one of a dream of opportunity one of two electrical formation of a conceptu­the best known on cam­and jazz is beginning to engineers in the cast, al grandness into some­pus, never fails to put on steal the spotlight from found his role to be a thing tangible." a sharp and entertaining ballet as a popular pas­good break from his nor­The Company as a show. time. mal studies. whole both gains and 
While "Grand Hotel" is The audience looks in "It's a very fun role," suffers from choosing a no exception to that rule, on the events that Grundy said. "I basically relatively obscure musi­it is a departure from change characters' lives just wear a tuxedo and cal to work with. Few past performances in within a single day at the hit on women all the have heard of "Grand other ways. Few of the Grand Hotel. Nobility, time. It couldn't be bet­Hotel" even among the­Company's musicals fea­artists, workers and the ter." ater aficionados, and the ture such a balance seedier members of soci­Sophomore Brad musical does not contain between a wide variety ety all make their way Laney, who plays the any of the often per­of major characters, and through, provided they doctor, found his first formed crowd-pleasing the focus on dance in have money to pay or a role as someone over 50 favorites that appeared this year's performance skill to sell. to be a challenge. in last year's perform­is perhaps a first for the The threads of love, "I would say that I am ance of "West Side group. death and money under­a symbol of the Great Story." However, this 
Director Devon lie almost every scene. A Depression to come, and keeps the spectators on Candura· and choreogra­dissatisfied group of overall depression and their toes. The ending is pher Erin Porvaznik menial laborers mutters • sorrow," Laney said. "I not a foregone conclu­chose the play partly to Marxist rhetoric around bring out all the flaws sion, and the audience find a good mix of the edges of the action and all the good things d()eS not dtifi off due 'to required talents. while the elite strive to and bad things in peo­overly familiar scenes. 
"We wanted a play that hang onto the money, ple's lives." Perhaps not least, per­had challenging dancing and the status, to which The death bolero is a forming a little-known and challenging acting," they are accustomed. A fascinating central point work saves the perform­Candura said. "The plays woman in red, repre­for the play. Juniors Jen ers from wondering that fit that were few senting love, periodically Belliveau, who has whether they are being and far between." flirts with death, a man danced for 17 years but compared to actors and 
Candura atso wanted dressed in black. A death never in a Notre Dame singers whom the audi­something a little differ­bolero between the two production, and Joe ence members have pre­ent and a little more marks the climax of the Garlock, who had never viously seen in the roles. obscure than the average action. danced before joining the As in most years, the musical. Of the six largest roles Swing Club at Notre tickets for the musical 
"I was looking for it would be impossible to watches the action and acters. Allison Dame, worked together have long since been something that didn't pick out a single lead. offers his own observa­Giovinazzo, a sopho­on Sunday nights to sold. But if you can get end in a double wed­The action is well divided tions on life and the peo­more, who like many of learn the complicated your hands on them, the ding," she said. "Being a among a fading ballerina ple who get caught up in the lead actors played a dance. performance is well less well-known show and her devoted assis­it directly to the audi­small part in last year's Sophomore Tom worth your time. was really attractive to tant, a young typist ence. production, is endearing Mucchetti was responsi­"Grand Hotel" will be me the year after 'West aspiring to a better It would be equally as the young and na'ive ble for much of the final performed tonight Side Story."' future, a young book­impossible to pick out a Flaemmchen, dreaming production in his roles as through Saturday at 
"Grand Hotel," one of keeper determined to see best performer. The cast of Hollywood but worried both musical director Washington Hall. the few plays to fit the a little bit of life, a cor­members all work about a pregnancy. and technical director. In bill, takes the Company rupt businessman and a together well, a key ele­Senior Tom Anthony, a addition to working with to the most expensive nearly bankrupt baron. ment between such long-time campus the­musicians and conduct­Contact Maria Smith at hotel in 1920's Berlin. An old, cynical doctor closely interwoven char-ater veteran, is thor-ing the orchestra, msmith4@nd.edu 




KC KENNEY /The Observer 

Aspiring American jazz singers Jimmy and Jimmy (Mike Bogden, left, and Ramln Saghafi) meet Flaemmchen (Allison Giovinazzo). 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Wednesday, february 9, 2005 
page 17 
Queer Film Festival enters second year at 
Notre Dame 
Films and workshops seek to promote discussion and awareness among students 
By CHRISTIE BOLSEN Scene Writt•r 
Tho suceessful dobut of tho <Juner Film Festival last year and its rww lineup of movies and diro<~tors this year provns gay and lesbian artists havn made many important contributions to the world of dnmna. Tho coneept behind thn film f<~stival this wneknnd, however, is not just to promotn the achievements of gay moviomakers. It also provides an opportunity to bring the commu­nity togetlwr around an evnnt, olr<wing gay students as wnll as straight stud<~nts the chancn to nngagn in dialogue or simply nnjoy thn lilms and panel discus­sions. 
Notrn Damn graduate Liam I lacny, director of opnrations and <·o-roundnr of the festival as a S<liJior lilm major last year, said tlw response to the lirst li.1stival last ynar was encouraging. While tlwre W<'fl~ a few angry letters from alumni, the overall student maction was vnry positive. 
"We had a grnat response last ynar," Dacny said. "Wn got a lot or good feedback from the cam­ll!IS i~~ftjJ;, ,lJil(l W.f.l, r;e.ally got almost nothing hut positive rnmarks rrorn students." 
Tlw r<Jstival went off without any protnsts. and the demand was so high for tlw award-win-Queer Film Fnstival, Storin point­ml out they should bn taken in context with all the other ovnnts on campus that garner less attention but align more with what poople might expnet from a Catholic campus. lin also pointed out thn ndu<~ational aspnct of such events. 

"Bettnr that (students( expPri­ence some of' those things -not everything that's out thorn, but some of thesn things -in the context of prineiples that are learned at this University in other elasses than to hav<~ no grounding in these things and then graduatn after four years and suddenly you'rn thrust into that world," Storin said. 
The faet many acadomie. department:;; and groups are sponsoring the festival rellects the widespread support around campus for this event. Thn Queor Film Festival is sponsored by tlw Gay and Lesbian /\lumni/ae of tho UnivMsity of NotrP Dame and Saint Mary's CoiiPgn (G/\L/\ ND/SMC), the dopartmont of lilm, tolnvision and thnatrn, tho departmnnt of 1\nglish, tlw dnpartmnnt of anthropology, thn 
department  of  history,  the  
Counseling-Center  and  the  
(iendor Studins Program.  

Tlw ovonts will all be hold in thn Pnrforming /\rts Cnnter's Browning Cirwma. 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu 

ning "Hedwig and the Anhrry Inch" that another screening had to be scheduled. 
"Along those lines it was a really great success ... it's not trying to push an agenda or anything, it's about the nlms and tilmmaking," Dacey said. "It's the only thing of its kind at Notre Dame." 
Dacey points out although the term "queer cinema" is used in acade­mia, the films sometimes dmtl with gay and lesbian issues and sometimes don't. Though creators of the li.1stival hoped it would raise awareness that gay members of the Notre Dame community are just like other members, they also hoped to challenge a panel at 11 a.m. entitled "From Script to Sereen: The Screenwriting Process." The panel will feature Terrnnce McNally, writer of the screenplay "Love! Valour! Compassion!" and Don Roos, direetor of "The Opposite of Sex," "Bouneo" and "Happy Endings," which will debut at this year's Sundanee Film Festival. The panel will be followed by a showing of the second part of "Angels in America" at 2 p.m. 
The final event will be a showing of "Love! Valour! Compassion!" at 7:30 p.m. The film is about eight gay male friends who leave behind the city for a sum­mer in a secluded home in upstate New York. "Love! 

Notre Dame alum Sister Jeannine
the perception of. Notre Valour! Compassion!" deals 
Gramlck will answer questions Saturday. 
Dame as intolerant. with many issues, inducting 
The festival will kick oil' Thursday at 7:30 p.m. with a screening of "Saved!" The movie, starring .lena Malone, Mandy Moore and Macaulay Culkin, earnnd eritieal acclaim last year for its satirieal depiction of a hars.bJy judgmental Hap(~)Iigh. school. Direetor and writer'Brian Dannelly will be on hand after­ward for a question and answer session. 
Next will be a panel discussion on Friday at 1 p.m. entitled "The future of gay marriage." The event will be moder­ated by David Pais, class of 1972, and features Sister Jeannine Gramick, prol'nssor Gail Bederman, Illinois Politieal Director of !\quality Hick Garda and Brendan Fayn. Gramiek is the star of' "In Good Consdem~e." the restival's second film. Faye is the rounder and eo-chair of New York's inelu­sive St. l'atriek's Parade and one of the Jirst New Yorkers to marry in Canada in 20(>3. 
The sernnning of "In (;ood Conscience" will bn at :~:30. The docu­mentary follows Gramiek, a Notre Dame alum who ministers to gay and lesbian Catholies, refused to stop her aetivities and attempted to take her case to the Vatican. She will be p.res<'.pt for the question-and­.aQs,.~er )efosion afterward with Barbara Rick. the director and producer of the lilm. 

The next film shown at 7 p.m. will be "Gay Pioneers." The film tells the story of one of the lirst homosexual civil rights demon­strations in the United States in Philadelphia at a time when few publiely identilind themsnlvns as gay. "Gay Pioneers" follows the story of some of these first organized annual homosexual civil rights demonstrations from 1%5-69. 
The lilm will bn shown in eon­junction with a brief presentation on gay history with Bederman. !\ question -and-answer session after will be held afterwards with activist Barbara Gittings and Equality Forum executive diree­tor Malcolm Lazin. 
The first part of "Angels in Amnriea" will be shown at 9 p.m. Adapted from the play of tho same name, the film starring AI l'aeino and Meryl Strnnp tells the story of a gay eoupln who b(~gin to fall apart al'tnr orw grows ill rrom Ams. lie bngins to have religious visions of an angel, announcing he is a prophet. 
Saturday's li1stivitios begin with 
living with IllY-positive sta­tus, family problems and love tri­angles. McNally, who wrote the play as well as the screenplay, will host the question-and­answer session aftnr the sereen­ing.. 
Unlvetsity spokesman Matt Storin said there seemed to be a misunderstanding surrounding the event. While some were under the impression the films wern pornographie in naturn or films that wouldn't be shown in downtown South Bend, that isn't the ease. 
"There are people who object to it and we respect those opinions," Storin said. "But if we attempted to stop the culture of the United States of Ameriea in the year 2005 at the gate on Notre Dame Avenue and on Juniper Hoad, not only would that be a fruitless exnrcise, but we really would­n't be preparing our studnnts for tlw world they're going to ontnr into." 
Even though pno­plc might protest the prnsenre of evnnts such as the Vagina Monologues and thn 




"Score" tells story of renowned conductor Leonard Bernstein 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN 
Sn·no Writer 
Notrn Damn will host tlw SIT! Company's production or "Scorn," a play centering on the brilliance of world-renowned musician I.nonard Bornstein, today at the Debartolo Performing /\rts Center. 
The orw-man play is the linal installment of a trilogy about the creativn process, with the previ­ous two plays focusing on stagn direetor Hobert Wilson and writer Virginia Woolf. "Seore" looks at the ernative gnnius that engulfed Bernstein and enabled him to introduen millions to clas­sical rnusie. Tom Nnlis, who won an Obin award for his perform­ancn in "The Medium," portrays Bernstein with the intent of eon­veying what oceurred in Bernstein's mind as he tried to live out a life as a conductor, composer, film scorer and pianist. 
Much of the play is based upon print and media interviews with Bernstein, as well as some of his own writings. The play builds in tension when Bornstein reaches a point of erisis, with dose atten­tion paid to the sound design (i.e. the musie) throughout the pro­duction. 
"Scorn" was recently shown at the Clarice Smith Performing Arts Center at the University of Maryland and has one more per­formance at the College of DuPage Performing Arts Center Friday. 
Anne Bogart, one of SITI's founding members, directed the play. SITI is an ensemble-based 
theatrn company that focusm; on the creation of nnw theater material. the training of young actors and an emphasis on intnr­national eultural exchange and eollaboration. The company is based in New York City, with a summer season in Saratoga. SIT! believes, as it states on its Wnb site, that "eonternporary American theatre must necessar­ily incorporate artists from around the world and learn from cross-eultural exehange of dance, music, art, and perform­ance experienees." 
Nnllis is a long-tinw rnnmlwr of the SIT! Company. Wlwn not per­forming, hn also teaches Suzuki Tnehnique and Viewpoints Training for SIT! workshops and also snrvns on the faculty at tho University of Pnnnsylvania and Princeton University. 
Tiekets li1r "Scorn" are $35 for gennral admission, $2H for facul­ty/staff, $26 for senior eitizens and $15 for studnnts. The play begins at H p.m. 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at 
bholliha@nd.edu 
Wednesday, February 9, 2005 

page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

No.1 Illini stay perfect against Wolverines, 57-51 
overcame an eight-point deficit to Ravi Moss for a lay-in with
Associated Press in the second half to beat 13 minutes left. ANN ARBOR. Mich. -Dee Wisconsin 75-65 one game after The Wildcats went ahead for Brown made sure No. 1 lllinois Iowa pushed them to overtime good at 53-52 on Azubuike's 3­survived a scare. before losing 73-68. pointer with 9:52 left and held Brown turned three straight "We've won a couple this year the lead thanks in good meas­steals into baskets. including ugly," Brown said. "You just ure to the play of Hondo, their the go-ahead three-point play, can't beat everyone by 20 or freshman point guard. and scored 16 points to keep 15." The 6-foot-1 Rondo had 14 the Illini undefeated with a vic­Early in the game, it looked points, seven rebounds and four tory over Michigan. like Illinois was going to win assists. He also helped shut "That was the difference­another game easily. down Anthony Roberson, the maker in the game, no doubt The Illini led by as many as SEC's second-leading scorer, in about it." Illinois coach Bruce 10 points and were ahead 23-the second half, when he had Weber said. 15 with 8:47 left in the first eight mostly meaningless points Illinois (24-0. 10-0 Big Ten) half. after scoring 15 in the first half. overcame a total collapse on Then they went on a stunning Rondo, a 50 percent free offense -going nearly 12 min­drought, going almost 12 min­throw shooter, even went 8-of­utes without a field goal -and utes without a field goal and 10 from the line. Kentucky, an eight-point deficit early in scoring only one point. When which entered the game shoot­the second half to become the they finally made a shot a few ing 65.8 percent from the line, nation's only undefeated team. minutes into the second half, went 18-of-24 (75 percent) Previously unbeaten Boston they trailed by just four. against the Gators. College lost 68-65 at Notre "If you guard. you always Rondo "is quick enough to Dame just minutes before the have a chance," Weber said. make Hoberson work harder." Illini finished off the Kentucky coach Tubby Smith Wolverines. Kentucky 69, Florida 66 said. "After halftime. he figured "It's a good feeling, but Kentucky keeps coming up out how to guard him." there's a bigger target on us with new ways to maintain its Kentucky only had three sec­now," Brown said. dominance over Florida. ond-half turnovers after com­Dion Harris had 21 points and Kelenna Azubuike scored 18 mitting eight in the first half. seven rebounds for Michigan, points and the fifth-ranked Kentucky led 64-54 after a while Courtney Sims scored 15 Wildcats rallied from a nine­three-point play by Azubuike points and Chris Hunter had 10. point second-half deficit to beat with 3:37 left. Florida came The Wolverines (12-12, 3-7) Florida. within four points with a minute have lost seven straight, their The Wildcats (18-2, 9-0 left and had two chances to pull longest losing streak since the Southeastern Conference) beat closer. but Walsh and Roberson 1999-2000 season. Florida (14-6, 6-3) for the each missed 3-point attempts. St. John's (8-12, 2-8) beat Pitt Pitt. Michigan coach Tommy eighth straight time and 1Oth in Chuck Hayes, who had 11 65-62 in New York on Jan. 18, "They put more pressure on Amaker was not satisfied with 11 games. The Wildcats hold a points and nine rebounds, made and it looked like the Red Storm me than they did the last keeping it close against Illinois. three-game lead in the SEC two free throws for Kentucky might threaten another upset game," Hill said. "It's still a loss," he said. East over second-place Florida with 26 seconds left and Moss after trailing only 17-15 at half­Pitt was the nation's second­"We're still disappointed. It's with seven games remaining. went 1-of-2 from the line with time. best defensive team last season, obvious our kids played their "I don't know if you can call it 10 seconds left, sealing the "It was a horrible game -for but was coming off an 83-78 hearts out." a rivalry," Florida junior Matt Wildcats' eighth straight win the first half," Taft said. overtime loss at West Virginia Luther Head scored 14 points Walsh said, "until we win some. since a home loss to Kansas. Pitt's second half wasn't much on Saturday that represe·nted' for Illinois and James Augustine I've never beaten Kentucky." better on a night the Panthers the most points against the had 10. Kentucky's streak against the Pittsburgh 55, St. John's 44 had 22 turnovers and their Panthers in nearly 5 years. Brown took over when Gators has spanned the ga~ut Pittsburgh's defense is back to bench produced only two points "Coach really emphasized the Michigan was clinging to a 39-from the sublime (a 70-55 romp . where it should be with the Big in 37 minutes played. But they 'D,"' point guard Carl Krauser 35 lead midway through the in 2003, when Florida was East Conference tournament contested nearly every shot by said. "He said to go back to second half. ranked No. 1) to the ridiculous only a month away. The the Red Storm. limiting them to playing our aggressive His three steals in just over a (scoring the final 11 points in a offense? That still needs a lot of 27.8 percent shooting (15-of-defense." minute led to three baskets, three-point win last season). work. 54). Despite their improved defen­including the three-point play On Tuesday. it was more of Chevon Troutman and Chris "St. John's looks to force sive play. the Panthers' frustra­that gave Illinois the lead for the same. Florida, which routed Taft wore down St. John's in the turnovers and we helped them tion with a second consecutive good with 7:54 left. Brown fin­then-No. 11 Alabama by 31 second half with their size and on that end," Pitt coach Jamie poorly played game was evident ished with four steals and four points on Saturday, looked to be strength and the 18th-ranked Dixon said. "But we did a better when Krauser drew a technical assists. in control against Kentucky as Panthers shook off a sloppy per­job of being aggressive in the foul for arguing with Pitt up "He's electrifying," Amaker well, leading by 11 points in the formance for a victory. second half. We are not playing only 24-21 early in the second said. "He ignites their team and first half and by nine with 16:57 The 6-foot-7 Troutman, aver­our best basketball, and I hope half. he does it in so many ways. He left. aging 19 points over his last we get more comfortable." Krauser came into the game made everything happen." But Kentucky scored 13 of the seven games. had 19 points and Daryl! Hill, the Big East's averaging 15.9 points, but did­Illinois. held to its lowest next 15 points to go ahead 4 7-the 6-10 Taft had eight of his 12 third-leading scorer with a 19.8 n't get his first field goal until point total this season, proved 45. The Wildcats took the lead points in the second half to help average entering the game, was just over a minute into the sec­again it can win without playing for the first time since early in the Panthers (16-4, 6-3) avoid a 6-of-18 from the field and had ond half. He finished with 12 its best. the game when Rajon Rondo second consecutive surprise 18 points, eight fewer than he points and surpassed the 1,000­Two weeks ago, the Illini threw a behind-the-back pass loss to St. John's. had in the first meeting with point mark for his career. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI-Two story house completely remod-COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR AVAILABLE-UMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 eled 2003 Ready for 2005-06 LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year. LOST & FOUND FoR SALE SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED-school year. Off street parking Available June 1, 2005. 2 
Residential camp, located in south ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY 235-includes motion sensor light for Bedrooms-2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, LOST: lpod white with black case central Indiana. Operated by the One bedroom condo near UND. 7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. security. Four individually locked Security System, Fully Furnished 15GB at Saint Marys January 29. Catholic Youth Organization since Appliances $72,000 280-8160 DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW bedrooms, six blocks from Notre 626-233-7373 or Salvaty @earth-Has my only copies of my semester 1946. Kim Kollar LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 Dame. bus stop in front of house, link. net in Australia pictures. REWARD. SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES surrounded by other student hous-Please return to ND or SMC securi-Serving campers aged 7 to 16 in LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS-ing. Laundromat next door t various programs. Inclusive of per-FoR RENT ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED-(drycleaning also). basement avail· 
PERSONAL 

sons with disabilities. ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT able for storage of bicycles, lug-Great 6-7 bdrm home available NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY gage,trunks,etc..new furnace and WANTED Great staff community. General 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail-SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. central air, new kitchen including Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 
Counselor, Specialty, Adventure able NOW. Both Close to MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL new stove and refrigerator, large liv-Days $299! Includes Meals, PART-TIME SALESPERSON. and Health positions available. ND,W/D,on-site parking. ND ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006-ing room for TV or entertaining,free Celebrity Parties' Panama City, EARNINGS UP TO $1 000/WK. Extensive training provided starting Internet Canopy access. Call Joe 2007 SCHOOL YEAR· 2-3-4-5-6-7-trash removal. Call 289-4071 Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, KNOWLEDGE OF PAINTBALL May 2005. For application and Crimmins 574-229-3659 8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award HELPFUL 315-7275. START information contact: CYO Camp GOING QUICK. )JISIT OUR WEB-Attention 2005-06 Jrs & Srs, Grad Winning Company' ASAP. Rancho Framasa (toll-free):(888) 5 bdrm on ND Ave available 05-06. SITE Students. Rental Home avail.for 2 SpringBreakTravel.com 
988-2839,x25 or e-mail angi@cam-1000/mo. email WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR students. 9/12 mo. lease avail. Fully Professional Mom needs help pick-pranchoframasa.org ndhouses@yahoo.com CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234-furnished. All appliances, 1-800-678-6386 ing up children from two area 2436 OR 574-315-5032 utilities,cable TV &high speed inter-Catholic schools and taking them to Want a $10,000 scholarship for Spotless Apartments Apartment net included.Off street parking, 4 1994 ND grads hoping to adopt. a few afterschool activities between tuition? Want a great summer job? Cleaning SPECIAL RATES FOR 2 bdrm condo on the lake w/loft. 1-miles from ND. $465/mo/student. Please see ParentProfiles com for 3:00-6:00 p.m. Monday-Friday. Here is your chance for both. E-mail STUDENTS. Emergency Weekend car garage,close to ND. $850/mo. 574-656-8695. more info (Arizona/Michael & Great kids-daughters ages 11 and Ndsummerjob@yahoo.com for Cleaning Available. Call574-329-0838. Avail. now. Kathryn). 14; Great Pay! Schools and home more info Exclusive Home Stables and Indoor close to ND and SMC. If transporta-Call or Email for FREE Estimate 5-bdrm house. $400 per student. All Arena. Indoor swimming pool & SEND A VALENTINE CLASSIFIED lion 1s needed, car can be provided. BOUNCER WANTED LOCAL PUB Spotlessapartments@ comcast.net utilities included + washer, dryer, Sauna. Call for details Judy 574 TO YOUR SWEETHEART DEAD-Call Karen Stonehill 272-5013 274-4145 532-4933 574-968-3670 security system. Call315-3215. 298-6217 LINE IS FRIDAY, 2/11. AT 2 PM 


Wednesday, February 9, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NBA 
Warriors break Magic winning streak; Cavs, Spurs win 

Associated Press 
OHLANDO. Fla. -Jason Hichardson scored 11 of his 32 points in the final 3:24, and the Golden State Warriors defeated the Orlando Magic 113-109 to snap a l 0-game road losing streak. 
Derek Fisher had 25 points. while Adonal Foyle scored 13 of his season-best 15 in the fourth quarter. The Warriors. who had lost 17 of 19 games, also snapped an 11-game losing streak in Orlando dating back to '1992. rlr · 
Orlando was led by Grant llill's 28 points, including the Magic's first 12. 
Steve Francis, denied an invi­tation to his fourth All-Star Game earlier in the day, had 21 points. six rebounds and six assists before fouling out with I :07 remaining. 
Foyle's free throw after Francis' sixth foul snapped a 107 -all tic. After Hill missed a jumper. Hichardson's layup put ttw Warriors up by three with 
14.4 seconds ldt. 
The Magic's bid to tic in the closing seconds fell short when Janwer Nelson missed a 3­pointcr. Nelson scored 16, including Orlando's only two 3­pointnrs. The Magic have lost four of live. 
Hichardson shot 11-for-22 from the floor and 10-of-11 from the line. lie also had 11 rebounds. 
The Warriors were playing thnir fourth game in live nights. but fatigue was never a factor. 
The Warriors drove the lane and attempted 34 free throws. making 27. and fought hard for loose balls despite being outre­bounded 52-44. 
Golden State shot 47.6 per­cent. the first time in nine games it topped 45 percent. 
Richardson had 14 of the Warriors' first 17 points. while Fisher made his first four 3­point tries. Golden State led 61­57 at the break after closing the second period on an 18-7 run. The team shot 55 percent, making six of 11 3-pointers. 
The Warriors hadn't! scored that many points in a half since they last played Orlando, on Dec. 10. In that game. the Warriors held a 65-64 halftime lead yet lost by five. 
The Magic shot 52 percent in the opening half. despite miss­ing nine of their last 12 shots. 
Cleveland 104, Toronto 91 
Zydrunas Ilgauskas scored 23 points. fellow All-Star LeBron James flirted with his third triple-double in limited action and the Cleveland Cavaliers rolled to a victory over the Toronto Raptors. 
James. voted to start for the Eastern Conference in his first All-Star game at age 20, had 15 points, 11 assists and eight rebounds in just 33 minutes. 
Ilgauskas, named an All-Star reserve earlier in the day, shot 8-for-13 from the field and had six rebounds and three blocked shots. 
Robert Traylor added 13 points and 11 rebounds off the bench for the Cavaliers. who improved to 18-4 at home and tied Detroit for first place in the Central Division at 28-19. 
Jalen Rose scored 21 points to lead Toronto, which lost for the fifth time in seven games. 
Raptors guard Hafer Alston scored five points in eight min­utes and did not play after the first quarter. A team spokesman said during the sec­ond half that Alston's absence was not injury related. 
Alston. averaging 14 points a game. served a two-game team suspension late last month and has had a rocky relationship with first-year coach Sam Mitchell. 
When the Haptors played in Cleveland on Dec. 4, Alston was held out of the starting lineup by Mitchell after getting a criti­cal technical foul in a two-point loss in Boston the previous night and then saying he would quit the NBA. 
Alston played 37 minutes that night and scored a team-high 20 points in a 105-97 loss at Gund Arena. 
Tuesday night, Ilgauskas scored 13 points and James had six assists in the first quar­ter as Cleveland quickly took command. 
James' best play came early in the game when he appeared primed to turn an alley-oop pass from rookie Sasha Pavlovic into one of his patent­ed power slams. But the pass was slightly off the mark, so James had to deftly tip it down instead. 
The Cavaliers opened a 19­point lead and led 57-43 at halftime. 
Cleveland improved to 2-0 with games remaining against Denver. the Los Angeles Lakers and Atlanta in an important five-game homestand. 
Toronto forward Chris Bosh, who had a career-high 29 points Sunday. scored six on 2­for-8 shooting. San Antonio 104, Charlotte 
85 
Not even the absence of Tim Duncan could slow the San Antonio Spurs, who got a big lift from the return of Hasho Nesterovic in their win over the Charlotte Bobcats. 
With Duncan out for the first time this season with a sprained ankle, Nesterovic marked his return to the start­ing lineup after a six-game absence with 15 points and eight rebounds in just 22 min­utes. 
Nesterovic made his first seven shots against an under­manned Charlotte team that struggled to defend him. He fin­ished 7 -of-9 from the lloor. 
Tony Parker had 20 points. Manu Ginobili had 12 and Bruce Bowen added 10 for the Spurs. who improved to an NBA-best 39-10. 
San Antonio started Tony Massenburg in place of Duncan. and he hardly filled the All-Star's shoes. Massenburg finished with one point, going 0-for-4 with three rebounds. 
Jason Kapono led Charlotte with 17 points off the bench. 
Primoz Brezec had 14 and Melvin Ely scored 12 as the Bobcats fell behind early and almost had their worst loss of the season. Trailing by 27 in the second half -and threat­ening to best their 113-90 defeat at Miami on Jan. 1 -the Bobcats only made it respectable when the Spurs benched the majority of their starters. 
Short on bodies -star rookie Erneka Okafor is on the injured list. center Jamal Sampson was waived prior to the start of the game and two others dido 't dress because of injuries. the Bobcats had just eight players after guard Keith Hogans left with an ankle sprain n1~ar the end of the first half. 
San Antonio built a 52-34 halftime lead behind 51 percent shooting. while Charlotte strug­gled offensively in making just 13 of 44 shots. 
The Spurs continued to roll in the second half. stretching their lead to 76-49 on Brent Barry's 3-pointer late in the third quar­ter before they benched the bulk of their starters and allowed the Bobcats a slight comeback against their reserves. 
Although the Bobcats were able to chip away at the deficit. they were hardly inspiring and few fans stayed around to see them trim it to 83-69. The front row, usually packed with Charlotte-area celebrities. had 13 consecutive empty seats glaringly empty at midcourt for most of the fourth quarter. 


DAVIS CuP 
Agassi will join U.S. tennis dreaiTI teaiTI 
Associated Press have won this thing once or twice." McEnroe said he's not sure whether Instead. the eight-time Grand Slam Agassi will play in later Davis Cup 
NEW YORK -Andre Agassi helped tournament champion stopped playing rounds if the United States keeps win­the United States win three Davis Cups Davis Cup as part of a scaled-back ning. before leaving the team in 2000. Now schedule geared to peaking for the McEnroe also said that's OK. he's coming back, hoping to end the majors. He left with a 30-5 Cup record. Agassi told the captain he didn't think country's longest drought in 68 years. And the 10 years since the last U.S. he wanted to corm~ back to thn toam 
Persuaded by a 2 1/2-hour chat with title is the biggest wait since the gap unless IH~ was surr~ he would bP tlwre 
U.S. captain Patrick McEnroe over din­between victories in 1926 and 1937. for PV!'I"Y match. But McJ.:nr<H' n(~W to ner in Las Vegas, Agassi agreed to Led by Andy Hoddick. the Amnricans Agassi's homdown last Wf'Pk to say rejoin the team at least for the !'irst rnaehcd the semifinals in 2003 and lost such a commitment wasn't ncPdcd. round against Croatia on March 4-6 at to Spain in last year's final. "I told him. 'Look. I'm not expPcting Carson. Calif. "This is really a dream team for the you to do that. nor arn any of the guys 
The Americans last won the title in U.S.." said U.S. Tennis Association chief on the team. Don't cut ofl' your options 1995. when Agassi and Pete Sampras executive Arlen Kantarian. who credit­by saying it's all or nothing, bPrausP were on the squad. ed McEnroe with creating a "player­we've never had a year wlwrP WP had 
"Imagine if Agassi had played the last frinndly environment around Davis the same four guys for evPry match."' four years." McEnron said in a confer­Cup. There's a new sense of cama­McEnroe said. "I just tried to convincP ence call Monday. "We probably could raderie." him that it wasn't a d!~al-breaker." 
Wednesday, February 9, 2005 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
NBA 


Mike Ja111es leads Milwaukee in blovvout of the Celtics 
Timberwolves struggles continue as the team drops its sixth straight game, falls below .500for first time this season 
Associated Press Michael Redd, left off the All­with 27 points but had only eight 
Star squad, had 17 points. in the second half. He scored 14 
MILWAUKEE -Mike James The Bucks outscored Boston in the second quarter, making a could feel a night like this com­42-15 in the second quarter. three-point play and a four-point ing after feeling good all week "It was probably our best play on consecutive possessions. during practice. offensive quarter of the year," But with sixth man Jerry 
James scored a career-high 28 Bucks coach Terry Porter said. Stackhouse out with a groin points, including eight 3-point­"It's a lot of fun when you play injury, the Mavericks had no ers, to 'lead the Milwaukee that way." second offensive threat and Bucks to a big first half and a Boston's Kendrick Perkins was Chicago capitalized. 121-97 victory over the Boston ejected following a scuffle The Bulls trailed by six early Celtics on Tuesday night. underneath the Bucks baaket in the third quarter when 
James, a former Celtic, had 19 with 1:27 remaining in the third Dallas' Josh Howard slammed a points and five of his 3-pointers quarter. breakaway dunk off the rim. before halftime as the Bucks Perkins fouled Desmond Chicago took over the ·momen­used a 22-0 run late in the sec­Mason as he drove the baseline tum from there, going ahead for ond quarter to take a 78-46 for a layup. The two got tangled good with 9:10 left in the game halftime lead. up, and Perkins threw Mason to on a dunk by Curry. Although he 
The 78 points were the most the floor. got a technical foul for taunting for the Bucks in a half in 18 Members of both teams the Mavs bench after the shot, years and the second-highest engaged in a shoving match, but he made up for it by turning it total for a half in the NBA this no punches were thrown. Ricky into a three-point play. season. Davis also picked up a technical. Curry made a layup with 2:03 
Raef LaFrentz led the Atlantic "That was something I wasn't to go that put the Bulls up 98­Division-leading Celtics (24-25) expecting," Mason said. "My 88. Consecutive 3-pointers by with 13 points. Paul Pierce, teammates helped me stay out Michael Finley and Jason Terry named to his fourth straight All­of trouble, which I appreciate." got Dallas within four with 1 :06 Star Game·-earlier in the day, The 121 points were a season left. but Kirk Hinrich answered had just seven points -15 high for Milwaukee. by making two free throws with below his average. "When we get it going like 3.8 seconds left to snuff the 
Boston had its three-game that, we can play that way," Mavericks' last-gasp rally. winning streak snapped and Mason said. "But the thing is we Hinrich finished with 12 failed to move above .500 for the don't do it often enough." points, six assists and six first time since Nov. 12. Chicago 107, Dallas 100 rebounds. Tyson Chandler had 
Boston head coach Doc Rivers Luol Deng had 30 points and eight points and 15 rebounds called the game "stinky." 11 rebounds and Eddy Curry and Ben Gordon scored 16 
"We cut our own self in the added 23 points, including sev­points, shooting 4-of-7 on 3­throat," Pierce said. "Things eral big buckets in the fourth pointers. didn't go our way, and then we quarter, to lead the Chicago Chicago outrebounded Dallas really couldn't stop the bleed­Bulls past the Dallas Mavericks 56-40 and outscored the Mavs ing." Tuesday night. by 12 in the paint. The Bulls in the third period before a 9-0 Kevin Garnett scored 24 points 
James shot 9-of-15 in eclipsing The Bulls won for the 23rd were so dominant inside that Minnesota rally cut the lead to to lead Minnesota. while Wally his previous career high of 24 time, matching last season's Nelson benched center Erick 98-86 with 5:22 to play. But the Szczerbiak scored 19 on 9-of-12 points set with the Celtics early total. This one ended a three­Dampier for Shawn Bradley Timberwolves could get no clos­shooting. Latrell Sprewell scored in the 2003-04 season. He was game losing streak and put them with 2:53 left. er, losing their sixth straight and 17, and Troy Hudson had 13 traded to the Detroit Pistons in over .500 (23-22) in February Terry had 25 points and six dropping below .500 for the first with eight assists. time for their championship run for the first time since Michael assists, while Finley had 16 time this season. The Grizzlies got off to a quick before signing with the Bucks in Jordan's last season. points and six assists but shot Minnesota had won its previ­start. shooting 59 percent in the the offseason. Defeating Dallas was another only 5-of-16. Dampier had 11 ous 10 road games against the first quarter and benefiting from 
James ended the first half with first since the Jordan era. points and 12 rebounds for his Grizzlies. seven Minnesota turnovers en a bang, picking off a long down­Chicago had lost 13 straight to sixth straight double-double. The Timberwolves' futility route to a 29-14 lead after one court pass, dribbling to the top the Mavericks and hadn't won in Memphis 108, Minnesota 96 included a season-high 22 period. of the key and sinking a wide­Dallas since Nov. 29, 1996. Lorenzen Wright had 18 points turnovers leading to 24 Memphis would eventually open 3-pointer with less than a This victory ruined Mavs and 12 rebounds Tuesday night, Memphis points, and no scoring extend the lead to 20 before tak­second remaining. The Bucks coach Don Nelson's return to the leading six Memphis players in from backcourt starters Sam ing a 63-44 lead at the break. left the court to a standing ova­bench after a 1 0-game absence double figures as the Grizzlies Cassell and Trenton Hassell. The 63 points were only two tion from the crowd of 13,764. while having his right shoulder defeated the struggling Cassell was limited to seven short of the most allowed by 
"Once you get it going, it surgically repaired. The loss Minnesota Timberwolves. It minutes in the first quarter after Minnesota in a half this season. seems like the basket is the size also kept him from tying Dick marked Wright's fourth consecu­his right hamstring tightened Swift, Wright and Williams of a garbage can," said Motta for the most coaching tive double-double as Memphis Jason Williams had 15 points had 10 each for the Grizzlies, Milwaukee forward Joe Smith, wins in team history. won for the fourth time in five and eight assists, while Shane while Szczerbiak scored 11 for one of five Bucks to score in Dirk Nowitzki, named an All­games. Stromile Swift matched Battier and Brian Cardinal fin­Minnesota, hitting all but one of double figures. "He got it going Star for the fourth straight sea­Wright's 18 points. ished with 14 each. Dahntay his six shots in the half. Garnett early and just rolled with it." son earlier Tuesday, led Dallas Memphis built the lead to 29 Jones scored 12 for Memphis. had 10 points. 



Wednesay, February 9 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
MLB 
Washington Nationals getting ready to take the field 

Associated Prc:ss Heady or not, the Nationals whole lot new for the former low on the major league totem million budget -he said he are about to take the field. Montreal Expos. The era of pole -Bowden couldn't re­wouldn't have enjoyed the 
WASHINGTON -In a tem­Pitchers and catchers report living in limbo is finally over sign free agent Tony Batista, same success. porary office in the nation's to Viera on Tuesday, followed now that baseball has decided but he was able to snag third "You don't have Cristian capital, the president of the l'ive days later by the rest of on a permanent home for the baseman Castilla and short­Guzman if it isn't for Washington Nationals is trying the roster. The ongoing logis­franchise, and a modest stop Cristian Guzman in free Washington. D.C.," Bowden to complete a to-do list 65 tics scramble in Washington -increase in the payroll has agency and work a trade for said. "lie signed here because items long, a task that has further complicated by a lost allowed Bowden to reverse the outfielder Jose Guillen. he and his agent had the become more maddening by week in December when city outward talent now of the last The newcomers join top vision to know what this mar­the red tape he seems to politics almost derailed the few years. returnees such as outnelder ket was going to be, and they encounter at every turn. move -will soon lead a par­"It's weird," closer Chad Brad Wilkerson, second base­wanted to be a part of it. We 
"What will be a miracle," allel existence with the pop of Cordero said, "because every man Jose Vidro, first baseman don't make the Jose Guillen Tony Tavares said. "is if I mitts and other baseball time I turn on ESPN, I see the Nick Johnson and catcher trade if it isn't for Washington, make it to opening day with­sounds. bottom line, and I see they Brian Schneider, giving man­D.C." out assaulting a lawyer." "I kept having faith it would just signed Vinny Castilla or ager Frank Hobinson the mak­Now the players have to 
In more permanent accom­happen," Bowden said. "Even Esteban Loaiza. It's definitely ings of a respectable lineup, hope D.C. will be ready for modations in Viera. Fla., the when we had that little set­cool to see how they're trying though without much depth if them in April. The good news interim general manager has back in December, I still to get all those guys. It'll be someone gets hurt. is that HFK Stadium is on pace spent three months trying to thought at the end of the day fun to go down to spring train­Pitching is another story. for its overhaul to be complet­improve a last-place team that everyone would come ing and see all the new faces The starting rotation has more ed on time to host an exhibi­with a limited budget. together and do the right and put on the new uniforms than its share of hard-luck tion game April 3 and the 
"You never have enough thing, and the right thing and stuff." stories. Tomo Ohka had his home opener 12 days later. time," Jim Bowden said. "I finally happened." Working with an absolute arm broken by a line drive The bad news is that the team didn't start until Nov. 2, so While the spring training upper limit of $50 million -last year. Zach Day broke a doesn't yet have a television you're behind a little bit, but complex is the same, as is up from last year's $43 million finger trying to bunt. Tony deal. a mascot-and a bunch we're very excited." much of the roster; there's a opening day roster but still Armas Jr. spent the season of other things on Tavares' 65­
recovering from rotator culT item list. surgery. Livan Hernandez is "There's a litany of issues," the ace of the staff. a title Tavares said. "Locking down deserved just for making it our budgets for game-day through the entire season staff. deciding on how many without a major calamity. uslwrs, how many ticket-tak­
Bowden tried to upgrade by prs. how many SP<:urity pursuing young pitchers guards. Who's thP cleaning Odalis Perez and Jaret Wright. contrart'? Who's tlw parking "And then all of a sudden the contract'? Tlw concession market just blew up in our deal? It's tedious kind of faces," Bowden said. "And things, like getting our tax Ill there's nothing we could do locally." about it." Executive vice president 
So he ended up with Loaiza, Kevin Uhlich's duties run tlw gambling that the inconsistent. gamut. lie is drawing up a right-hander can regain the promotions schedule so kids form that produced 21 victo­will know when they can run ries for the Chicago White Sox the bases, but he's also work­two years ago. ing to help select an architect 
"We knew we couldn't afford for the new ballpark that guys who made $5-15 million, needs to be built by 2008. lie's so we concentrated on guy_s doing all this in a makeshift we could afford to fill all the workplace because the team's holes," Bowden said. "I said new offices inside HFK won't when I took the job that we be ready until the end of wanted to improve at right March at the earliest. field, shortstop and third base. Still, there is confidence that With Guillen. Guzman and everything on Tavares' list will Castilla, I think we did that. get done in time for Obviously we wanted to get a Washington's first baseball starting pitcher capable of 180 season since 1971 -even if a innings. At the end of the day few of the less important mat­we got a guy that's been a ters run a little behind sched­two-time All-Star that won 20 ule. games." 'Tm sure we're going to lind 
Throughout the negotia­stuff that will fall into that tions, Bowden found category," Uhlich said. "We're Washington to be his best sell­looking at it globally, but right ing point. If the team still was now the focus is on that l'irst in Montreal-even with a $50 weekend." 


page 22 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, February 09 2005 


. -) . . .


rc········{) -----(--. ...-...
') .· /
( /. -~~ .' . , / )
., ..




{[Yi(,(l{l ~)") ~}l;'(((f(/k(/ 
Notre Dame Literary Festival 2005 
The theme of this year's Festival is "The Road Less 

Traveled." In keeping with the  
brought to you by the student union board  grand tradition of NDLF, we  
sub.nd.edu  have set out to assemble a  

group of distinguished guests who will provide the Notre Dame community with unique and compelling perspectives on the literary world. We have titled the 2005 Festival "The Road Less Traveled" because we will be featuring a very diverse group of authors who have rather unorthodox backgrounds. 

Wednesday, February 9, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NFL 
Bro\1\Tns name Crennel head coach 
Super Bowl champion Patriots say goodbye to another coordinator 
Associated Press 
BEHEA. Ohio -Borneo Crennel's long wait is over. An assistant coach for 35 years, he's finally in charge. 
Fresh from winning a third Super Bowl title as New England's defensive coordina­tor, Crennel was introduced Tuesday as coach of the Clevnland Browns, a team with far more imperfections than tlw one he left. 
"''ve been somewhat success­ful as a position coach. Now bning able to take the reins of a team and try to run a whole team, since returning to the league in 1999, selected an older. more experienced coach instead of going for an up-and-coming college candidate, as they did in 2001 when they plucked Davis from the University of Miami. 
Crennel joins Tony Dungy of Indianapolis, Marvin Lewis of Cincinnati, Dennis Green of Arizona, Herman Edwards of the New York Jets and Lovie Smith of Chicago among the league's black head coaches. 
As the Browns introduced Crennel, the Patriots celebrated 
in a parade 
through the 

that's special," "/ want to win and streets of Boston. Crennel said at a But Crennel
that's what I want 
news conference. knew he was in 
''I'm excited to try to bring to the right place. about it. I want to Cleveland. a "Considering be successful, and the alternative,
winning football 
I want to win and this is a good one that's what I want to be at," said
team." 
to try to bring to Crennel, who Cleveland, a win­was joined at the
Romeo Crennel 
ning football news conference

Browns head coach
team." 
The 57 -year-old Crennel is the 11th full-time coach in Browns history and the team's first black coach. lie's the NFL's sixth minority coach, but the only one with a Super Bowl ring for each finger of one hand. 
Cn~nncl received a live-year, $11 million contract from the Browns, who am coming off a disastrous 4-12 season that was scuttled by major injuries and highlighted by the resigna­tion of Butch Davis on Nov. 30. 
In hiring Crennel, the Browns. who are just 30-6(J with one playoff appearance 
by his wife, 
Rosemary, and 

two of his three daughters. 
Crennel. who began his pro coaching career with the New York Giants in 1981, was passed over for head coaching jobs in the past. Last year, he interviewed with several teams, including Buffalo, Oakland and Chicago. The year before, he spoke with San Francisco about the job that eventually went to Dennis Erickson. 
But after the Browns inter­viewed him on Jan. 7, they knew Crennel was their guy. Except for a small window dur­ing the Patriots' postseason bye week. league rules prohibited the Browns from having any discussions with Crennel while New England was still playing. 
The secret was out, though, and if the Browns were having any doubts about Crennel as their choice, he reassured them by devising defensive schemes that stopped Indianapolis and Pittsburgh in the AFC playoffs. 
On Sunday, the Patriots bare­ly had another Vince Lombardi Trophy in their grasp following a win over Philadelphia in Jacksonville, Fla., when Browns president John Collins called Crennel to ofl'er him the job. 
Crennel's first priorities in Cleveland will be to hire assis­tants and get to know general manager Phil Savage. The Browns are counting on the Crennel-Savage combination to reverse six years of question­able draft picks and turmoil. 
Crennel will reportedly bring in Maurice Carthon from Dallas as his offensive coordinator, and Patriots defensive backs coach Eric Mangini is the lead­ing candidate to run Cleveland's defense. 
That was Crennel's job with Cleveland in 2000 under Chris Palmer. The Browns haven't improved much since Crennel left, and he'll be faced with some major decisions in his first weeks on the job. 
One is the future of quarter­back Jeff Garcia, who struggled in his first season in Cleveland after signing a four-year, $25 million free agent deal last March. Garcia is due a $500,000 roster bonus on March 1. 
NBA 


All-Star bid less joyful for O'Neal 
Associated Press and class," Carlisle said. 
"Those are things that play 

INDIANAPOLIS -Indiana into the coaches' votes." forward Jermaine O'Neal was A year ago, O'Neal, Carlisle in no mood to celebrate and forward Hon Artest all Tuesday. made the trip to Los Angeles, 
Sure, he had just been and in 2003, O'Neal took a named an All-Star reserve, large group of family and 
extending his team record for consecutive "It is a situation appearances in 
where this team

the NBA's mar­
has been through

quee midseason game to four. so much that it's And, of course, he 
hard for me to say

appreciated the 
I'm an All-Star this 

votes of fans and coaches. year. It's just that by going it alone this 
Jermalne O'Neal 

time, O'Neal's trip 

Pacers player

to Denver will be 
more subdued. 
"It is a situation where this team has been through so much, that it's hard for me to say I'm an All­Star this year." he said. "Maybe next year I can take my teammates and coach back. This has just been a funny year." 
Perhaps Tuesday's announcement should have given O'Neal a sense of vindi­cation. 
After an ugly Nov. 19 brawl with Pistons fans, he was sus­pended 25 games by commis­sioner David Stern -a punishment 
friends with him to Atlanta. lie won't have either in Denver. 
Artest remains suspended for the rest of tho season and teammate Stephen Jackson just returned two weeks ago after a 30-game suspension both for the brawl. O'Neal isn't planning on 
bringing many fans with him to this year's game, either. The bigger concern for O'Neal is the Pacers' plight. 
They've lost seven of their last nine games, which has put them in a precarious posi­tion a little more than halfway through the season. Indiana, one or the preseason favorites to challenge the defending NBA champion Pistons, trails Philadelphia by 1/2 game for the final Eastern Conference 
playoff spot. 

that could have "It's definitely a 
precluded him 
pleasure, it's just

from All-Star con­sideration not as enjoyable as 
because he would­the last couple of 
n't have returned 
years.

until January. 
An arbitrator later reduced Jermalne O'Neal O'Neal's suspen­Pacers player 
0 ' N e a I received the third-highest total among Eastern Conference for­wards in fan balloting, receiving 1,432.438 votes. lie missed a chance to start in the game for the third straight year by 
a little more than 65,000 votes to Grant Ilill of the Orlando Magic. 
Carlisle said O'Neal still deserved to bn an All-Star. 
''I'm happy for him," CarlislP said. "lie is a guy who has a pu r e heart for tIH~ game or basketball and how lw feels about his teammates." 
But for O'Neal. this year's All-Star Game just won't be the same. 
"It's dnfinitely a pleasure, it's just not as enjoyable as the last couple of years," he said. "When coach Carlisle was there and other guys were there, it was much bntter." 


sion to 15 games, a decision that was upheld by a federal judge. The ruling allowed O'Neal to return Dec. 25 against Detroit and since then he has been the Pacers' one constant. lie leads Indiana in scoring (26.(J points per game) and rebounding (9.3). 
O'Neal also now holds the distinction of having overcome the longest suspension to evnr make an NBA All-Star team. 
Pacers coach Hick Carlisle said he understood why the league's coaches rewarded O'Neal. 
"This is yet another sign of him not only being a great basketball player, but a guy who persevered with dignity 
ATP 


High seeds fall early in Buenos Aires event 
Associated Press 
BUENOS AIHES. Argentina -Fifth-seeded Juan Ignacio Chela of Argentina and sixth­seeded Filippo Volandri of Italy were knocked out in the first round of tlw ATP Buenos Aires tournament Tuesday. 
Chela lost to Marc Lopez of Spain 7-5, 6-1, while Volandri was beaten 6-4. 6-2 by Lars 
Burgsmuller of Germany. 
Top-seedPd Carlos Moya, the 1998 Fn~nch Open cham­pion, reaehed the second r o u n d by bI' a t i n g I' ~~ t e r L u ezak of Australia 6-:{. 7-(J (5). 
French Open champion and second-seeded Gaston Gaudio rallied after struggling early and beat Italy's Federico Luzzi 2-6, 6-1. 6-3. 

.-----------------------------------------------------------­



OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, February 9, 2005 
NBA 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
~ 
Atlantic Division 
team record perc. GB L 10 
Boston 24·24 .500 6~4 
Philadelphia 23·25 .479 1.0 5·5 
New Jersey 21·27 .438 3.0 7·3 
Toronto 20·29 .408 4.5 4·6 
New York 19·29 .396 5.0 2·& 
Central Division 
team record perc. GB L10 
~ 
Detroit 28·19 .591 5·5 Cleveland 28·19 .591 5·5 Chicago 22·22 .500 4.5 6·4 Indiana 22·25 .468 6.0 3·7 Milwaukee 17-28 .378 10.0 5·5 
Southeast Division 
team record perc. GB L10 
Miami 36·14 .720 7-3 Washington 28·19 .596 6.5 6·4 Orlando 25·23 .521 10.0 4·6 Charlotte 10·35 .222 23.5 2·8 Atlanta 10·37 .213 24.5 3-7 
WESTERN CONFERENCE 
team 
Seattle Minnesota Denver Portland Utah 
team 
Phoenix Sacramento 
L.A. Lakers LA. Clippers 
Golden State 
team,,.,. 
San Antonio Dallas Houston Memphis New Orleans 


around the dial 
NBA Charlotte at Indiana 7 p.m., Fox Midwest Miami at New York 7:30 p.m., NBA TV 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL Memphis at Louisville 7 p.m., ESPN North Carolina at Duke 9 p.m., ESPN 
COMPILED FROM TilE ()BSFRVER'S WJlU: SERVICES page 24 
NBA 


AP 
Spurs guard Manu Ginoblll drives past the Clippers' Elton Brand in a game Jan. 19. He was named to the Western Conference All-Star team Tuesday. 
All-Star game reserves announced 
Northwest Division 
record GB 
32-13 24-24 9.5
....... 2,0

21-26 20·26 ,I) 
16·32 .aaa .;·::i:: 17..5 
Pacific Division 
record perc; GB 
38·11 .776 
32·15 .681 5.0 
24-22 .522 12.5 
23·25 .479 14.5 
14·35 ,286 24.0 
L 10 
6-4 
5"5 
6•4 
li•5 
3~7 
L 10 
7-3 6·4 4·6 5·5 2·8 

Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Dwyane Wade, Manu Ginobili, Gilbert Arenas and Rashard Lewis are NBA All-Stars. Jason Kidd and Steve Francis are not -nor are any members of the Sacramento Kings. 
Six first-timers were among the selections Tuesday, when the NBA announced the reserves for the Feb. 20 game in Denver. 
The league's 30 coaches chose the reserves, rewarding several young players whose teams have exceeded expectations. The Phoenix Suns will be sending Steve Nash, Amare Stoudemire and Shawn Marion, while the Cleveland Cavaliers, Washington Wizards and Seattle SuperSonics are sending two players apiece. 
"I'm thrilled, I'm excited, I'm very happy that in my second year I'm an All-Star," said Wade, the Miami Heat guard having a breakout season play­ing alongside the game's most domi­nant big man. Shaquille O'Neal. 
"To Shaq, who said when he got here that I'd be an All-Star, what can I say but 'Thanks. big fella. I love you."' 
Emotions were strong elsewhere, too, more so for those who did make it than those who didn't. 
Washington owner Abe Pollin stopped practice by wheeling a giant cake onto the court so the Wizards could celebrate the selections of Arenas and Antawn Jamison, the first time in nearly two decades the fran­chise has two All-Stars. 
Guard Ray Allen of Seattle and for­ward Dirk Nowitzki of Dallas rounded out the Western Conference selec­tions. The East's other reserves are centers Zydrunas Ilgauskas of Cleveland and Ben Wallace of Detroit. forward Jermaine O'Neal of Indiana, and guard Paul Pierce of Boston. O'Neal was picked despite missing 15 games when he was suspended for his role in a brawl with fans at a Nov. 19 game at the Pistons. 
"This is yet another sign of him not only being a great basketball player, but a guy who persevered with dignity and class," Indiana coach Rick Carlisle said. "Those are things that play into the coaches' votes." 
Among those left off were New Jersey's Kidd, who had played in every All-Star game since 1998. and Orlando's Francis. a three-time All­Star. 

IN BRIEF 
Chicago gets WNBA team 
CHICAGO -Tamika Catchings didn't think she'd get a chance to play professional basketball when she was growing up, let alone be able to play in her hometown, in front of family and friends. 
Well, now she can. 
The WNBA awarded an expansion team to Chicago on Tuesday, giving the league its 14th team and return­ing women's professional basketball to the home of the Chicago Hustle. The team will begin play in 2006 at the Illinois-Chicago Pavilion. 
"This is an amazing time," said Catchings, a Chicago native who plays for the Indiana Fever. "I want to thank you from the bottom of my heart for making this possible.... This is an awesome opportunity." 
The Chicago team -its nickname will be announced later -will be the WNBA's first new franchise since 2002. San Antonio and Connecticut began play in 2003, but each moved from a previous location. 
Patriot fans welcome home Super Bowl Champs 
BOSTON -Three silver Super Bowl trophies and the gray sweat shirt-wearing mastermind who won them all took a championship ride through the streets of Boston on Tuesday, passing nearly 1 million screaming fans. 
Kids skipped school and grown-ups missed work. Confetti flew and play­ers blew kisses to the crowd. 
The New England Patriots took another victory ride through town their third in four years to give their sign-waving, slogan-chanting sup­porters a chance to share in Sunday's 24-21 win over the Philadelphia Eagles in Jacksonville, Fla. 
"It's incredible. It seems very sur­real, deja vu, man," quarterback Tom Brady said. "You never get sick of the winning. You never get sick of the fans. I tell you, it's a great place to play." 
U.S. soccer team in Trinidad for World Cup qualifier 
PORT-OF-SPAIN, Trinidad -The calypso was playing at a mind-numb­ing level when the U.S. soccer team walked into its hotel just after mid­night. Carnival was in full swing. and this island nation looked toward Wednesday's World Cup qualifier as the after-party. 
Sweating from the 90-degree heat and humidity. people in glittery cos­tumes and headdresses walked to the Queen's Park Savannah for Tuesday's Carnival celebration. At the Queen's Park Oval, the site of the game, U.S. coach Bruce Arena had to shout instructions to players over booming music during practice. 
There was a 24-hour-a-day party leading up to Ash Wednesday, billed as the second-largest Carnival cele­bration behind Brazil. U.S. forward Clint Mathis, however. didn't find the scene too unusual. 
"This is just typical any time we come to a Caribbean country, playing music," he said. 
Wednesday, February 9, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
NFL 
TW"o-Ininute offense will be Eagles' focus in the offseason 
Associated Press 
In the bett"ing world, the l'hiladelphia Eagles won the Super Bowl, easily covering the oiw-touchdown point spread to put a few bucks in their fans' pocknts. 
In thn rnal world, thny drove thos1~ fans nuts with turnovers and mindlnss clock manage­IllPnt in tJw fourth quarter Of a gamn tlwy had a chance to win. 
Assignment No. I at next summnr's Hagins training ramp: tlw hurry-up ofT1~nsn. 
That's tlw opposite of tho slow dane!' thn Hagins took down tlw field on their last tourhdown drivn against tho Nnw Hngland Patriots -play­nrs straggling back to the hud­diP, coach t\ndy Hnid watching dispassionatnly. quarterback Donovan McNabb acting too dl'libnralPiy as tlw clock ticked down. 
Hagins fans shouted "Go! Go!" at the game Sunday in Jacksonvilln, Fla., and probably millions more watching on tele­vision shoutnd the same thing, trying tolekinetically to prod tlw loam into some sense of urgency. Look at the clock. look at tlw score. "Go! Go!" 
The gamn and the points wnn~ on the line when the Hagli)S, trailing 24-14, started with the ball on their own 21 with 5:40 left. They needed two Tl>s to win tlw trophy but only Ill!!' to covnr lhP point spread. Hath1•r than rush. they moved patiently. nxenJciatingly so, running the clock down to 1:55 in going 49 yards. Hather than ano-huddle offense, they hud­dled too long. 
Center llank Fraley tried to hurry his teammates back to the line of scrimmage, McNabb called them back for a chat. 
"We went to our hurry-up offense," McNabb insisted. "We were trying to hurry up," Heid agreed. "Go! Go!" fans shouted in the stands, at bars. at home. 
McNabb, throwing on 12 of 13 plays during that drive. put the bettors ahead with a 30­yard TD pass to Greg Lewis. Winning the game was another matter. 
"We did try to get it going," Heid said of the offense. "I can't tell you the details, the circum­stances on why it didn't work as well as it should have." 
Maybe he can explain it and get it right by next year. 
With the clock down to 1 :48, Heid called for an onside kick that didn't, a questionable deci­sion since the Eagles' defense had stopped the ·patriots three and out on the previous series. Heid almost certainly would not have gone for the onside kick if there were an extra minute on the clock. 
The whole ending plays out differently if the Eagles had managed the clock smarter and saved a precious minute in their last scoring drive. 
t\ kickoff rather than an onsid1~ kick pins the Patriots cl·enp, doesn't put them on the 
Eagles 41. The Eagles maybe get the ball back in better posi­tion after a punt than they did when they took over on the 4­yard line with 46 seconds left. McNabb maybe doesn't throw that last interception under pressure back by his own end zone. 
There were surely many other reasons why the Eagles lost 24-21 -two other inter­ceptions, a fumble, four sacks, a general sloppiness that was uncharacteristic of' the team. Then, too, there were the Patriots, who showed again the difference between a very good team and a great one. 
The Eagles who showed up in this game were merely very good -except for one who almost couldn't play. 
Terrell Owens would have been the MVP if the Eagles had found a way to win. 
T.O., who says he found divine powers of recuperation, matched Curt Schilling in the World Series for one of the all­time gutsy command perform­ances by an athlete under duress. 
There was Owens, ready to be the star again, 6 1/2 weeks after doctors screwed a plate to his ankle. Defying medical advice, risking further damage, he not only played in the Super Bowl, he played as if he'd never been gone. lie cut right, cut left, spun around, juked defenders for big yards after he caught the ball. lie caught nine passes for 122 yards, the longest a 36-yarder. 

He was strutting again, his arms flapping. He had said he would not be a mere decoy and he surely wasn't. McNabb went to him from the start, giving him the honor, as it were, with passes on the first two plays, one incomplete, the second good for seven yards. 
T.O. was back. Del1antly back. Making chumps out of doubters. Showing again that there's substance behind his flashy, self-promoting styln. t\11 that awaited was some new TD dance, but he never got the chance. 
Something was m1ssmg, the extra strength to swat away defenders, the extra speed to break away. lie played gallantly but just couldn't quite get into the end zone as he had 14 times this season. 
The Eagles may do some ruminating the next few months, ruing the mistakes they couldn't afford to make against the Patriots. thinking about the changes they'll havn to make to win oiW ganw mon~. They kept their bettors happy, but they let themselv1~s down. 


~-------~-­
Wednesday, February 09, 2005

page 26 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
' 
~ 
I I 
i 
I 
! I ~ 
! 
I I I I I 
I I 

The Collegiate ReadershiP Program  
Brought to you by the Notre Dame Student Government  
The Collegiate Readership Pilot Program will be available to University of Notre Dame students from February 8 to March 4, 2005 at the following locations: J Mendoza College of Business J North Dining Hall J Hesburgh Library J South Dining Hall J LaFortune Student Center J 0'Shaughnessy Hall Pick up your FREE copy of: ./USA TODAY ./Chicago Tribune ./ New York Times  
Notre Dame Student Government would love to hear your feedback about The Collegiate Readership Program! For more information or to provide feedback, please email studegov@nd.edu or call574-631-7668.  
• Please Recycle  

--~---------·--------­
Wednesday, February 9, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
CLUB SPORTS 
Field hockey sticks it to competitors in Ohio 
the semifinals where the Snyder, belied their inexperi­Morgan sixth, Lindsay May club participated in the Miami
Irish squad handles 
squad again dropped a 4-0 ence. 11th, !\nne Mahoney 17th. Cup Invitational. held mixed-sex squads in decision to Lexington. The first game of Saturday Sarah Haunvenhorst 18th, Saturday at Miami (Ohio). The was a disappointing 9-8 (oss to Lauren Dacey 26th and Mary Irish women were lead by sen­stride last weekend Ultimate Frisbee Carleton College in double Kate Sweeney 33rd. In the ior Caitlin O'Brien. who scon~d This weekend, the Ultimate overtime. Jenifer Pruehnik giant slalom. Clements. a 32.45 all-around. Mary Special to The Observer Club traveled to Baton Houge, revealed surprising coolness Morgan, and May again led the Blazewicz, Wendy Svntanol'f. La .. to compete in the 18th as a young handler. with the squad, finishing seventh, lOth. Cecilia Torres. Maura Ste1~d 
Undaunted by playing coed annual Mardi Gras help of veteran handler and 11th respectively. and Charlotte Low also com­t1~ams. Notre Dame's l'ield Tournament. Both the Elizabeth Shiel. Kristin Dube Haunvenhorst. 13th. Mahoney petl~d in the women's division. hockey elub rnlishns the chal­women's and men's teams worked into the open midfield 19th. Casey Dunne 25th, while Paul Kane represented lnnge of playing the best enjoyed success in their first point after point against a Dacey 26th and Sweeney, the Irish men. squads in the area. Cincinnati outings of the spring season, strong zone defense. Hashelle 33rd, completed the team fin­The women's team competi­played host this weekend to led by senior captains Simpson impressed the crowds ish. tion was won by Ohio both women's clubs and coed Meredith Sheperd and Matt with several unlikely catches The men's squad improved University. squads. Hebeccca Mosca Sullivan, respectively. The in the shifty wind. to third in the slalom and 4th llost team Miami and scored llw lone goal for the women won three of five con­Meanwhile, the men enjoyed in the giant slalom. Jason Purdue f'inished second and Irish in an opening 5-1 loss to tests. while the men won five a 5-1 record, winning their Luecht had the best finish for third. respectively. The men's Lexington Club in the opener. of six. first five games before eventu­the Irish in the slalom, at sev­team competition was won by The strong coed squad from Notre Dame women's ulti­ally succumbing to a top-seed­enth, followed by Steve Fuetz Purdue, with Illinois and K1~ntucky would go on to reach mate showed increasing inten­ed Illinois team in Sunday's 14th, and Chris Eakins 21st. Miami rounding out the top the finals against another coed sity with every game this championship bracket. Barrs In a team picture finish. Brad three. power, Cincinnati Club, which weekend. Hache! Meeks and Lang and Ryan Butler provid­Jolitz was 29th, Pat defeated thn Irish 3-0 in sec­Kaitlin Price were key players ed offensive flourish while Leimkuehler 30th, Sean Salllng ond-round action. in a 13-5 win against Tulane Steve Kurtz and Mike Florack Glenn nan 31st and Alex Tulane hosted the Nelson 
The Irish faced their first University. Hache! was on the were standouts on defense. Gloechner 37th. The giant Holtsch Hegatta last weekend, women's squad in the third handle with many beautiful Tommy Hanculak and Nick slalom order of finish for the featuring 14 schools from ­round and shutout the throws to rookie Price. The Chambers had great success men was Luecht, 16th, Fuetz, around the country. Notre Wildcats of Kentucky, 2-0 second game was an easy 13-6 playing in their first tourna­19th, 1\ndrew Breslin 26th, Dame's A boat skipper and behind Summer Shea. playing win against Grinnel College. ment. But it was the consis­Gloechner 31st. Leimkuehler, crew of Katie Brandes and her first tournament in goal. The Grinnel women had style tent. high-level play of 1\ndrew 32nd and Eakins 36th. Katie Thompson placed 1Oth Eleanor Badley, assisted by but not enough to cut down Hochstedler and 1\ndrew In Saturday's snowboard and the B boat, sailed by J H Da n i e Ill~ Fe d e I e . a n d M a r y the finesse of Christina Sheehan on both sides of the competition, the Irish women Garcia, Jay Barron. Liz Davis ripped homn goals for Hedges' swing throws and long disc that put an otherwise were paced by Cat Dunne, Ketterhagen, and Liz 1\rnddy, t lw I r is h . T h e I r is h t h e n hucks to Nancy Powaga's stel­young team in the position to eigth. and Emily Williams. 14th, for an overall team !'in­squared off against the lar catches in the deep feild. compete with elite competition 10th. Nick Cottinghan. 8th. ish of' 12th. University of Chicago, another The women's only loss on from around the country. James Weber. 10th. Tim Iluml, South Alabama earned first coed squad. Mosca again Sunday was to the l'irst seed 12th and Dan Vanderwer. 13th place, with Boston University found the back of the net. on club team Zanzara. lleather Ski Club finished atop the men's board. second, UC Irvine third. an assist from Bradley, and Tsukamoto proved to be an Skiiers from six MCSA con­In Sundays, mixed team com­Florida fourth. and Texas 1\&M Lauren Petrozziello's goal absolute asset and too wily for ference schools converged on petition. Cottingham's third­Galveston fifth. knotted thl) final seore at 2-2. these older women as Notre Crystal Mountain in place helped the squad to an The rest of' the order of lin­
Ashland College fell to the Dame struggled to secure five Thompsonville, Mich. this overall second-place finish ish was New York Maritime Irish in the fourth round, 3-0. points to their 13. The last weekend for the season's sec­with Vanderwerff seventh, sixth, Citadel seventh, UMBC Mosca and Meredith Gluck game on Sunday was the "Big ond conference competition. Iluml, 13th, Weber, 17th and eighth, Georgia Tech ninth. nach registered unassisted Easy" for the Irish after facing Notre Dame's women took sec­Dunne, 21st finishing at the University of New Orleans goals, while Davis scored with Zanzara, as Notre Dame shut ond in both slalom and giant top. 1Oth. Western Washington the assist to Bradley in Shea's out Texas State 13-0. First-0 slalom, trailing Michigan 11th, Notre Dame 12th, Texas second shutout of the tourna­year players Colleen Stehlin, State. In the slalom, Daniello Gymnastics 13th and the Univnrsity of' ment. Tlw Irish qualified for Sheilds Duss. and Stephanie Clements placed third, Hita The Notre Dame gymnastics Chicago 14th. 
Announcing the Year 



2005 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thunb to a generous grfl from the Albert Runmno far111l). the ltalwn Sna.llcs Pro~n1n1 is plc;.ascJ to announce the ycm :!.005 annual t.:ompctliHm for tnn·cltn supportnl summer rcscan.:h anJ foreign study rn !tal). Grants will he made 111 amounts not to exceed $3,<XXl, ~md wall not no11nally l.'ll\'cr all expense. .... Notre Dame graUu;.atc o.~nU undcrgmdu;.•tc stuJcnts who arc plan rung to pursue rc~cun..·h or a formal J>HlFnllll (ll summer stud) 111 Jtuly urc Ill\" lied to uppl) Stullcnts must ha\·c completed at lca.... llUH..' )carol Jtulian Jo.mgtmgc. The c{1ursc work will lllll mall~ he 111 ltalrt.ul, wtll 111' ol \ l' the stw..iy lll lt;.llmn language. literature.•mJ c.:ulturc, anJ mu:-.L be o.tpp!Jcahlc tu ol student\ degree p!og~<un ut the Um\ erst!) ol Notre Dame 
Rct.:nmmcnJcd program:-. lor 1nretgn sllld) llll'IUdc. hut .u-c nntlumtt~d lo Ln)ol~a UnJ\"ersrt~ 111 Rome. Bnstnn UnJ\'cr~rl) 111 Padua. UCLA 111 P1~u. MJ.IIlll Un1' cr..,ll~ ln Urbtml, C\1lumbJ.1 UnJ,crsrl~ 111 SL·andti.lntl lntcre:-.tcd "llllknt:-. .Ul'l'lll'tiUJagcd \t} con:-.ultlhl' matenal:-.nnlta1ran lllll'lt!ll ~tuJ~ 111 the Dcp.ll"lllll'11l til Rt~mo.an..:c L.tn~tJ;.tgl·~. 343 O'Shau~hnc") Hall 
StudL•nl.'l o~rc 111\"Jtcd to ~uhm11 a ll·Hcr whrd1 :-.llilll[d 111dudt• 
I) an C\planatllllllll ho\\ thl' propnscd rc:-.can:h 111 lnrctgn ~tud~ ''til cnll.IJll"l' lht'll dqncc prog1.un .11 Notre Dame 
2) .1 pcr~llllal ~lalcmcnllndJcaiJng thc11 haL·kgltllllld. llllcle!'r.t..... .111d hmg·IC1111 gtl.tl:-. 
3) a dc~L'Ilptum ol the rcscan:h pllljl'l'ltll tiH.' prugr.unthc) Jntcnd \l,llnllo\\ 
4) a hudgclrndJt.:a\111~ the t.:o~ts 111\'ol\"l'll 
5) the name:-; ol two rcfercm:c~. 
All(Jiil·ntion Dcndlinc: :\lundn), FehrunrJ 21 ... 2005 Alhl•l1 Rn\'nrino ltnlian Sludie... Tn1vel Sdwlnnhip l'rngrnm in llnliun Stud((",. J4.l O'Shnughnc"y linII llnh·el'"iily or Noire I>UIIIl' 

Corner McKinley & Grope 1 blk south of Colfax Inside Mertins 
574. 252.5820 574.288. 9450 574. 287.9651 
4615 Miami Road
"fr_ US.Cellular. 
Miomi & Ireland 
AUTHORIZED AGENT 
574. 299.2860 




Write for sports. 

'A~ ''E """' ,,,hd 011 ~vJ-vuar ::..1surrer ~'"' irlJ·E<'rntlflls of $49.~ 01 nrgner DHer .nckKI..s frrSl h~e at ~99J with~ access discouct plus $20 Sr1.1reTall 50% dtcess crscoum val,o :01 tr,e ht tllr~ 111.)1~1;, r,f 11 twn--,eJI OFtllltrnert A1rtnr~ and Sha1ela..; phoue utters reQu1re unew t¥.u-~'$r consurnw se1VJCe agreerne:ll L1n1rt three ShareTalK 11nes pe1 pnma1y lme t..ccess lee~ ShareTalk untt IS $20irro. hrnkl"' ·"~ r11~1 ro. 011 apore plan ot S:l9 95 a•>:! nrgc,er hun>Jt~nal pi'(JOO sub1ect to clldi1!Je. CuStomer rs resi)lnSrble lor all sales t.Jxe;. N~ht and Weekend Mrnutes are val~ M-F 7pn· 111 559 am Jltd .11 :IJ< Salcrd.'ty and Suno<rv ~1glrt Jnd VA.'l1i<erl:ltntnulel ~m a;ailablo 111 local tailing area only Cuslomm placing ood raceiwtg calls rnu;t be U.S. Cellular customers a•>:! on tltl' Mobtle-ID·Mollilu feature. 
Call 1-4543.

I,UJllu ro Mi!bt~ ·ninutes app~ to calls ploceulo orr(l';(lt\'etllrom another U.S Culluk1r s"nscribtlf's ph<Jnu. forwur call to quality lOt MoOIIIKo·Mobilo n11nutes, )UU rnusl place oneceiw tne call from wttllln your ~..tol,~ tr. Mohl~! \:all1"1fJ Arr.a. 11M thP marmnq r01l~t~1tnr 011 ','(MJ1 pt10r'P.Ill.tM tm oft Carls to/frorn nutSit1etne MOD11&to-Mob'le calrrng area will ilPPIV toward yOlJI regular plan mmutes May not be avarlnhk! with rt·rt.ll ·nltus lhl... lt:Jiurt) docs r11J1 'duducalls 1e Vllt(.tl SaviQ!'iUI 411 h{J(Imll~lr·nargBs !a.'S, surchar[JE!S a1Kf raxes 1nay ;)IJPI~. 1Pckk111g it fodural arn.l Othm llugulaiOfV Foe dtargp of S.!E Al:1 valrOft fuc S3U A.ll•:t..lfli1Ctl J4r!!t!nDrt" sul/je(: 10 nn Pdlly 1tl'mmal,n111Att Olher restrrL11® OldY Hnlly Set! store rrx dettlliS. lrrnitt!IJ lm'lf:l offer (,1;)?.ff!j U.S. Cellular CorporatKJn 
-----------------------------------------------~----------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, February 9, 2005

page 28 The Observer + SPORTS 
Belles 
continued from page 32 
behind Saint Mary's. 
Adrian has balanced scor­ing all year, but its most con­sistent players have been point guard Corri Helldober and forward Amanda Raisbuger. Forward Thera McCall has also stepped up, scoring 14 points in an 88-48 loss to Hope last week. 
The Bulldogs had last weekend off. but with a win­ning season beyond their reach and with a 40-point blowout loss at the hands of the Flying Dutchwomen still fresh in their minds, Adrian may come out flat against the Belles. 
Saint Mary's will hope for continued outstanding play from senior center Maureen Bush. Since bursting on to the scene with a 31 point effort against Tri-State. Bush has become a force in the middle, averaging 15.7 points per game over a 10-game span. 
Also key for the Belles should be senior guard Katie Boyce's return from injury. Boyce scored six points against Hope in her return to action after a foot injury sidelined her for three weeks. 
"It's a huge plus. It helps our rotation and our defense, and she brings leadership," Bellina said. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

KELLY HIGGINSffhe Observer The Belles look to score against Anderson earlier this sea­son at the Angela Athletic Center. 

THAI RESTAURANT 
We are looking forward to creating a wonderful evening and a romantic experience for you and your special guest this Valentine's day. (Please make a reseiVation in advance ifyou plan to spend your romantic evening with us.) 
Lunch:Mon-Fri llam-2pm Dinner:Mon-Sat Spm-9pm 
2ll N. Main Downtown South Bend 
232-444.5 
·'·' ~ ,·. .~·' 





Write for sports. ·Call 1-4543. 
..... 
Friars 
continued from page 32 

held the Panthers to 25 per­cent shooting and pulled down a season-high 50 rebounds. 
"So many people are playing well and playing to their potential," McGraw said. "We look sharp -we had just two turnovers at halftime. 
The win at Pittsburgh was . especially important for the Irish as they came into the game with two big wins against then-No. 9 Connecticut in Storrs; and then-No. 16 Boston College at home. 
"It was just one of those games, where you're coming off two big games, and you think you're gonna have a let­down," McGraw said. 'It's so important to play well. and I gain mo.re and more confi­dence every time we play like that." 
Leading the way for the Irish Saturday were two players from the bench -Courtney LaVere and Charel Allen. 
LaVere finished with 17 points and eight rebounds, and Allen had 16 points in front of a hometown crowd in her native Pennsylvania. Allen was named the Big East Freshman of the Week last week after averaging 12.5 points on 62.5 percent shooting and 4 rebounds per game off the bench for the Irish. 
"She's really kinda surpassed our expectations," McGraw said of Allen. "I thought she'd play a lot, I just didn't think she'd play as well in the big games. And she has stepped up really well in the big games. She doesn't get flus­tered, she doesn't get nervous. Playing in front of your home­town -that's hard for some people, and she just had her regular game. I don't think anything fazes her." 
Allen and the Irish face a weak Providence team tonight who lost to No. 11 Connecticut 71-24 Saturday, after scoring just six points in the first half. Led by sophomore Shauna Snyder, who averages 12.7 points per game, the Friars have struggled this season after returning just four letter winners from last year's team. The Friars were also hurt when lone senior Gayle Nwafili 

(12.3 points, 8.3 rebounds per game last season) suffered a season-ending knee injury during exhibition play. 
In her absence, sophomore Jill Furstenburg has stepped up, averaging 10.4 points per game. The Friars only win this season was a 59-56 win over Troy Dec. 30, snapping a 10­game losing streak to start the 
Attention: 
season. 
Notre Dame is led by All­American Jacqueline Batt­east's 17.7 points and 6.3 rebounds per game. and Megan Duffy's 11.4 points and 
5.6 assists per game. 
Tonight the Irish will focus on themselves, and try to keep the momentum from their seven-game win streak alive. 
"We'll concentrate on our­selves," McGraw said. "We're going to work on a lot of dif­ferent things defensively, try to execute without turning the ball over, try to work on our presses. Really. just play it and see what we can learn." 
Tipoff is set for 7:30p.m. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


JUNIORS 
who are interested in the 
Rhodes Scholarship 
(for two years ofstudy at Oxford) 

Marshall Scholarship 
(for two years ofstudy in the United Kingdom) 

Mitchell Scholarship 
(for one year ofstudy in Ireland or Northern Ireland) 
Come to an information meeting on 
/3 

Thursday, February 10 or Wednesday, February 16 5:00 pm in 119 O'Shaughnessy 
Ifyou cannot attend but would like information, please contact the Fellowships Office 103 O'Shaughnessy fellows@nd.edu 
Wednesday, February 9, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 29 
February 9, 2005 




FAITHPOINT 


''Pretty Please'' 

SENIOR L.T.R. 
by KATE BARRETT 
RETREAT Learning To Talk About Race
Campus Ministry stt{/f 
Friday 2111-Saturday 2112 I..~eadership Retreat Recollect, for a moment, the things you've asked of 
Sacred Heart Parish Center Friday 2/ll-Sutu rday 2/12
God in prayer lately. Wann weather? Help with an 
... & Downtown Chicago Gnuova Con ter
upcoming test, presentation or other responsibility? Ajob interview, or the insight to discem what major you should 
SATURDAY, 2/12

choose? A blowout victory for the Patriots (and ofcourse, ­*Vigil Mass (5 pm, Basilica)
that several future Notre Dame recruiting classes are 
TODAY, 2/9 

*Solemn Mass of the Blessed *Four:7watching the game)? Maybe you've prayed for much more 
Virgin Mary (9am, Alumni Chapel) (9-Jlpm, CoMo Lounge)
significant, even scary things as well, such as health for a 
desperately ill grandparent, or reconciliation within your 
SUNDAY, 2/13

(Note Time Change)
parents' troubled marriage. 
Viewing of The Passion ofChrist *10:00 am Mass (Basilica)
Have you ever felt slightly foolish while making *Sant'Egidio Prayer Community 
*11:45 am Mass (Basilica)

these prayer requests-as if God might be listening and 
(6:30pm, Log Chapel) 
*Spanish Mass (1:30pm, St. Ed:~)thinking, ''Dub! I know you want him to get well. So do I!" 

*Ash Wednesday Masses 
*Law School MassOr have you ever felt perhaps you might come across as 

(/1:30am & 5:15pm, Basilica) (5 pm, La·w School Chapel)
too bossy or presumptuous inyour requests ofGod, while at 
*Lunch Fast 
*MBA Mass

the same time thinking, " ... but, pretty please"? We've been Interdenominational Prayer 
(7 pm, Mendoza Faculty Lounge)

taught since childhood that God already knows what we 
(/2:30pm, Dillon Chapel)
want; in fact, He knows better than we do. 
MDNDAY, 2/14

We may feel mixed emotions at different moments 
THURSDAY, 2/10 
*Applications for NDE #86during our prayers ofpetition, but these vital prayers fonn a *Halaqa: A Qu'ran Discussion & available! (Due 2128)central part ofour relationship with God, and they return our 

Conversation Circle 
*Eucharistic Adorationhearts and minds in several important ways to the 

(7-8pm, CoMo Meditation Room) (M-Th, 12-?pm, CoMo Chapel)
mysterious beauty of God's grace. 
*"Passion & teh Eucharist":

First, our prayers ofpetition ott en remind us ofj ust 
FRIDAY, 2/11 
Scipture Studyhow blessed we already are. Though we may plead with 

*Senior Retreat (See above) (7:30pm, 330 CoMo)
God for a particular outcome, like a healthy newborn niece 
*Learning to Talk or nephew, or fulfilling employment, we are also led to 
About Race Retreat (See above) 
TUESDAY, 2/15

remember, even in the midst ofour longing, to thank God for *Bible Study w/ Fr. Frank Zagorcall we have. And when it comes to prayer, our God is 
(7:30-9:30pm 316 CoMo)

nobody's fool. Imagine the foresight to think ofcreating us with the inborn desire to thank our creator! So many of our most treasured prayers begin with thanksgiving and praise 

LIVE IT!!!

to God, yet we'll never have enough opportunities to express adequately the depth of our gratitude. "Our Father, 

i Whether she's singing her heart out in the Basilica Loft, from the who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name." "Father, ali­t Canters stand, or in her dorn1 chapel, Lauren Prieto lives her faith as powerful and ever-living God, we do well always and she shares the gift of song. Lauren, an RA in PW, has been a member 
everyll'here to give you thanks through Jesus Christ our 
of the Folk Choir tor four years. As a senior she has emerged as a Lord." 
leader and serves as the choir's president. She worked well with others Second, prayers of petition must be a part of a 
I 

to pian the Choir's 25-year reunion and East Coast Tour this coming larger, living !if~: of prayer. If you've ever created, and stuck ,;{
~., . spring. Lauren serves as an accompanist as well. 
with, a prayer ritual in your life, you know the lure of prayer. The more you do it, the more you feel drawn to In PW Lauren is well known for her genuine warmth, generosity, and kindness. She does doing it more. Once you're hooked, you begin to anticipate double-duty on Sundays, also serving her hall as Liturgical Music Commissioner and pianist the m:xt time you 'II have the opportunity to indulge again. for Mass. As ifthat isn't a enough, Lauren is teaming the Senior Retreat coming up in Lt:t's not kid ourselves, however; praying is also a skill we February. must develop, not too unlike playing the piano or taking up 
Need help tuning your guitar? Lauren has perfect pitch, which means you can ask her to jogging. If we tell ourselves we'll practice or run when we 
sing aD-flat and she'll pull it out of thin air! Thanks for all you do, Lauren! 
have time or when we're in the mood, we find it easier and .easier to set it aside, especially when other concerns and All across campus, ND students are living their faith. Do you know anyone who is out there making commitments crowd in. But if we set aside a specific time a difference? Send nominations to schuster.13Crond.edu of day to pray, and seek out fonns of pr..:yer that intrigue us and draw us in, we begin to tum a habit into a skill, and a skill into a desire, and perhaps a desire into a virtue. When 
Catholic Q&A 
we pay attention, we'll notice that God not only calls us, but 
Why do Catholic priests wear the Roman Collar? Are they the only ones who do? 
has placed in our hearts the desire to respond. diocese might better emulate the 
Give yourself some uninterrupted prayer time each During the first nearly 1,500 yea!'ll of the Church, there 
Italian Church. One such way

day-and while you're taking a shower or driving to 
was that clergy should begin campus isn't what I mean. You wouldn't practice the piano 
was no specific rule of dress for 
wearing the Roman collar as their and talk on the phone at the same time, or go jogging while not during this time, clergy would 
normative public dress. In the U.S., 
the priesthood. More often than 
reading the paper, would you? Give a few moments or take on the garb of their it was the C.!>uncil of occupation (e.g., professors, 
Baltimore ( 18R4) that ruled that 

morcjus/to God. Watch your relationship grow, as well as philosophers, etc.) or specific 
priests should wear the Roman your ability and desire to say both please and thank you. 
collar in public. Today, the U.S. 

vocation (e.g., monks. hermits, 
Conference ofCatholic 13ishops etc.) A universal Church decree 

on this issue simply did not exist. inverted Roman collar, as the has instructt:d that. "Outside of The Council of Trent normative dress for priests in liturgical functions; a black suit 
First Sunday ofLent 

( 1545-1563) decreed that "ck"rics fult1liment ofTrent's requirement. and Ruman collar arc the usual 
Gospel

lst 
2nd 

Usage ofthe cassock became most attire f()r priests." Genesis 
SHJtOIIJl 

always wear a dress comfortable 
Matt he"Romans 

to their order, that by the widespread in Italy, Frnncc, and Local customs still 
·k1-112:7-9; 3:1-7 5:12-19

Scriptures 

their Spain. vary, however. In Gcnnany, t(Jr
propriety of outward 
Usc ofthe Roman collar example, Catholic clergy most Phone 
inward uprightness of their did not catch on in England and often wear a dark suit and tie; it 1-7800 morals" (Session 14). Soon the United Stutes until the 1800s, is the Lutheran clergy who arc 
Web afterward, Pope Sixtus V however. At that time, Cardinal most frequently seen "in collar." campusministry.nd.edu proposed the cassock, a button­Nicholas Patrick Wiseman of Some Protestant clergy stateside Main Office dowp tloor-l<.."'lgth black robe with 
apparel they may show forth the 
England promulgated a list of also choose to sport "the long slt!cves and the now-familiar multiple ways that priests in his blacks."
319 CoMo 
Retreats Office 

Campus Ministry Sencl yout questions to Petkins.26@nd.edu!
114 CoMo 

page 30 Wednesday, February 9, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 



Tho01as 
continued from page 32 
his own game after Saturday's 60­57 loss to Syracuse. They said he wasn't himself, and Thomas agreed. 
So he decided against Boston College, he would take some friendly advice -and even tag it on his footwear. 
"I didn't have any baggage com­ing into this game from [the loss to) Syracuse," Thomas said. "I 
When Thomas knocked the ball loose, Smith tried to retrieve it. But Thomas ripped the ball from the floor and shook his head at the Eagles' forward. 
"No, that's mine," the head­shake seemed to say. The ball and the game were his. 
Later, as Chris Quinn and Jordan Cornette both missed the front ends ofone-and-one oppor­tunities to seal the victory, Thomas stepped up and made four straight free throws. 
"It's up to me to play fearless, play with a level head and play College opened up a 15-6 Like l said after UConn. there lead, attacking Notre Dame's are no grand statements
Win 

man-to-man defense. Irish here," Brey said. "I would continued from page 32 
coach Mike Brey switched his think you dealt with a group 

team to a 2-3 zone it would in the lockPr room that was second-half lead with a 10-2 continue to play for the pretty enjoying. but not giddy. run, highlighted by two 3-majority of the game. forcing "It's a great league win. it's pointers from Falls. the Golden Eagles into hoist­powerful. but we know we 
In 12 of its wins, Boston ing up 22 3-pointers -more have Pittsburgh coming." College had trailed in the sec­than twice their season aver­ond half, four times by dou­age. Contact Matt Lozar at ble-digits. Seeing Boston The Irish used a quick 12-2 mlozar@nd.edu College come out of a timeout run, scoring on five ,straight 
NOTRE DAME 68, BOSTON

with an 8-0 run possessions after 
COLLEGE 65 

to cut the lead the Golden 
at the JOYCE CENTER 

down to 49-46 "! would think you Eagles built that 
wasn't surpris­dealt with a group early nine-point NOTRE DAME (14-6. 6-4) ing. lead to go ahead Cornelle 0-1 0-1 0. Francis 2·'1 2-4 6.in the locker room Thomas 6-10 4-4 19. Quinn 4·7 1·3 10.
Throughout 18-17. 
Falls 8-14 0-0 23. Cornett 0-0 0·0 0,

that was pretty
the rest of the The Irish took 
Latimore 5-8 0-0 10, Carter 0-0 0-0 0.. half, the Irish enjoying, but not the lead for good 
steadily kept at with a 10-0 run BOSTON COLLEGE (20-1, 9-1) 
giddy." 
Smith 4·14 1-2 9, Dudley 5-13 4-5 16.

least a three­later in the first 
Doornekamp 3-8 0-2 7, Hinnant 5-9 0-0

point lead, half. 
13, Marshall 4-9 1-1 9, Wal~on 4-9 0-0 bumping it up to Mike Brey With the fourth 11, Williams 0·0 0-0 0. eight points with Irish coach straight game 
1st 2nd Total

4:08 remaining. against a ranked 
NOTRE DAME 37 31 68

Down the str-opponent on the 
Boston CoUege 32 33 65 etch, the Eagles were able to horizon at Pittsburgh get the lead back down to Saturday, Brey knows his 3-point goals: Boston College 9·22 (Watson 3-5. Hinnant :l-6. Dudley 2·7,
three points, thanks to contin­team can't get too high after 
Doonwkamp 1·2. Marshall 0-2). Notre

ued struggles from the free­this national-headline win. 
Dame 11·20 (Falls 7·12. Thomas 3-5. throw line by the Irish. Yes, it improves that tourna­Quinn 1·2. CornPtt<' 0-11. Fouled out: But Boston College couldn't ment resume, but it is only None Hebounds: Boston Coll<•gt> :l8 
(DudlPV 11 ). NotrP DamP :lO (Francis X)

make enough shots in the last one win -regardless of how 
Assist~: Boston CollPgP I X !Dudley hi.

minute to get any closer. big it is. 
Notre !lamP I'J !Thomas 'JJ Total fouls: In the first half. Boston "We're going to enjoy it. Boston College 17. :'llotre Dam•• l:l. 
didn't even think. I just played." with a smile on my face," Thomas 
While issues such as the pro­said. duction of Notre Dame's front­Thomas' coach knows self­court have dominated discussion inflicted pressure is nothing new 
2005 SUMMER RESIDENCE 
of the Irish ups and downs thus to the seasoned senior. far, Thomas' play has been the "He wanted that one in the most consistent factor in gauging Carrier Dome bad, and he was 

HALL STAFF 
the team's success. really disappointed we didn't get Against Connecticut, Thomas it," Brey said. "Chris is the kind of 
The Office of Residence Life and Housing
scored or assisted on every Notre guy that blames himself. Chris Dame basket from the 5:07 mark takes too much responsibility. One 
is currently accepting applications for 
of the second half on. The Irish of the things I want him to do is won 78-74. just enjoy playing and smile, and 
summer positions.
Against Syracuse, he shot 2-for-not play with the weight ofthe 12 from the field and could not world on his shoulders, and know lead the Irish past a late Orange that he has other guys out there full-court press, turning the ball with him that have got his back. 
• Be part of a successful team 
over four times to his five assists. Thomas had Falls helping him 
• Share your Notre Dame experience
The Irish lost 60-57. on the scoring end Tuesday, and When Chris Thomas plays well, the sophomore sharpshooter will 
• Meet new people
Notre Dame wins. And on receive most of the initial mention Tuesday night, Thomas played his as Irish fans praise individual best game of the 2004-05 season efforts in the Notre Dame upset. up to this point. "The [fans] probably would take 
The application and additional
Thomas shot 6-of-10 from the [Falls'] miss over me shooting field and 3-of-5 from 3-point every day," Thomas said, smiling. 
information is available in the Office of 
range, finishing with 19 points He knows he is highly criticized. and coming one assist from a Since he arrived his freshman 
Residence Life and Housing or on-line at: 
double-double the senior year, Thomas has experienced deserved. nothing but close media attention. "It was predictable that he But with the all-important would play like this tonight," Brey smile, the all-purpose player 

orlh.nd.edu/employment
said. "He's a winner." turned point guard leader was Notre Dame led 49-38 with able to do his ultimate job 
13:58 remaining, but the Irish Tuesday, committing no 
Applications: on-line until Feb. 23 
slowed their offense in an attempt turnovers. to maintain their lead and slid The result: No. 4 Boston College 
Interview sign-up: Feb. 23-March 4 
back into Boston College's game fell in the Joyce Center and plan. became -as the fans chanted so 

Interviews: March 15-24 
Not until Notre Dame came out frequently before, during and ofa 30-second timeout up 57-54 after the game -"20-and-1 ". with 6:13 remaining did the team Because Thomas discovered all 
Sign-up and interviews will be 1n 305 Main 
regain momentum -and that he had to do was "just play." 
Building.

was thanks to Thomas. 
The point guard hit Colin Falls The views expressed in this col­(23 points) for a 3-pointer, umn are those ofthe author and stripped Eagles' guard Jermaine not necessarily those ofThe 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING
Watson, finished the lay-up and Observer. 
Phone: 63 1-5878 E-Mail: sumstaffla)nd edu 
then stole the ball from Boston Contact Pat Leonard at 



ofl&fi

College forward Craig Smith. pleonard@nd.edu. 
NO Hockev Bus Trip •Fridav 2/18 -leaving lrom Jovce Center Gate10 @4:45 PM ND ~·.Michigan atlhe Fon wavne Allen couny~r Memorial Coliseum 


Transportation, lood, and aticket lor onlv $10! RSVP bV Mondav 2/14/05 Call1-8393to reserve vour spot [vou're smart, vou knew thaD 

page3:-l
Wednesday, February 9, 2005 
The Observer+ TODAY 
============================================================================================ 
~ 
~ 
DILBERT 
PEOPLE THINK I'M WORTHLESS, BUT IN FACT I'M A SUBJECT­MATTER EXPERT IN A 

VERY NARROW FIELD. 

PEANUTS 
THIS 15M"( REPORT ON ~A TALE OF TWO CITIES" 131( 
SCOTT ADAMS 
WHAT FIELD THERE'S

IS IT? 

NO WAY TO KNOW FOR SURE. 
CHARLES SCHULTZ 
ONE OF THE GREAT
'' 51 PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS 

TRIES OF ALL TIME, SIR
ARE ... '' 
HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRlON 

JJCWli'i!WibJ! 
Unscramble these tour Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, to form tour ordinary words. 
SLARN 
rJ 
1 
~005 Tribune Med1a Services, fnc 


i;;f~rr IJ 
tYAXTIL t

I J I J 
www jumble com WHAT AN EXPENSIVE MEAL-CAN C.OST. 
, j~------,1c,_E__,Tr?""o.....,xr--~L~­

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
. I (J tiJ 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 

Ar I I JoF[ I I I I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 
Yesterday's I Jumbles BULGY ITCHY VELVET UNLOAD Answer· Why the operator went to work despite a heavy cold-THE "CALL" TO DUTY 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Cloak for 1 Nerd Claudius 6 Colorless 38 What the starts of 20-and
10 Sign of poor schoolwork 53-Across and 
11-and 14 Philly footballer 29-Down are15 of Sandwich 40 Intoxicating16 Plains cylinder Polynesian drink 

17 Strasbourg 41 Painting withschool crashing waves,18 Nay sayer 
maybe 19 Bell sound 
43 Rosie of "White 
20 Places for Men Can't 
American Jump"
Beauties 44 Mode of hobo23 Slalom 
transportation24 "Country 
45 ConflictGrammar" 

rapper 
47 Buffalo-to­Rochester dir.

25 Cleaned up 48 Modern phone
27 Dolt feature
30 Tarzan portrayer Ron 50 Enjoy greatly 
52 Little _, who sometimes 31 Proof part, sang ''The 
Loco-Motion"32 Pals 34 Military strength 

53 Breakfast staple in the sky 58 Bunks 
~NSWER .TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ALA "I HE E ••• MIEIAIRI
sA 0 E ARc 0 w RIEINISI S N 0 W T 0 R N A FJLIAITI H A R R Y H 0 U 0 I N I 

El El ~-XIA C T
-T UITIS I G E IIG E R H E LIE NIHIU N T TIO 0 0 
ECO_S.NEV
W 0 MIB H E NIRIY HIY 0 E 
E L All N E 0 liAIN E R I NIG E R S C R A p 
s IIIIIIH E R M A N N H E S 
S E L

JjiJHJAO.EQU 'I' 
TA 
E
AIVIAII L LuMp ART sG!EINIR E L A B S M 0 S 
60 Food product 
that melts 61 Died down 62 Computer 
correction command 63 An eclipse, some think 64 Static 65 Charon's river 66 Snickers alternative 67 Hardly easygoing 
DOWN 1 Bucks and does 2 Baylor's home 3 They may be 
involved in shouting matches 
4 Popular 1990's sitcom 5 "Saturday Night 
Fever" trio 6 So very much 7 Lustful 
8 "Vissi d' " ''Tasca" song 9 Horse focuser 10 Mind-reading skill, for short 
11 Colorful dishes 12 Goofball 13 Like a rock 21 Everyone 22 Cesspool 26 Sign of an 
engine problem 27 Follower of 
John 28 Pump 29 Wealthy 
boyfriend, perhaps 

WILLSHORTZ 

31 Dogpatch  43 Speak so the  so Curl one's lip  
diminutive  back row can  51 Moscow money  
33 Kenyan tribe  hear  54  mater  
34 Wonderment  45 Conestogas  55 Wading bird  
35 On a par 36 Tear down 38 Dance venue  46 Michigan, e.g., in Chicago: Abbr. 48 Picture puzzle  56 '/10o of a euro 57 Like some modern filmmaking  
39 Photo  49 Shot put or  59 White or Red  
42 ''Ta-ta!"  1 00-meter dash  follower  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST


HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Seth Green, 31: Rohen Klein, 63: 
Nick Nolte, 64: Ted Koppel 65 
Happy Birthday: Opportunities are available this year. Whatever you have wanted to aspire to, give it your best shot. You will have great tuning and the ability to envision what will and won't work. You will he a mastermind when dealing with others and in solving problems. Someone from your past will make 
· a difference to your future. Your numbers arc 6, 17, 21. 35, 44, 48 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Things are looking up. so make your move and do your thing. You have the talent and the know-how. so take the plunge and jump into the future with optimism and confidence. •••• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be careful not to offend someone by being a know-it-all. You will get into trouble if you don't stick tu what you are supposed to be doing. Better to show what you can do than to toot your own horn. •• GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): You are in the groove today. Play your cards right and you'll have everyone eating out of your hand and everything going your way. Love is all around you. so tell someone special how you really feel. ••••• CANCER (June 21·July 22): Everything will be riding on the chotccs you make today Investment opponuniues arc apparent. but you mustn't stretch your financial boundaries to play the game. Practical maneuvers will be your best bet 
LEO (July 2.1-Aug. 22): So much is mling on how you treat the people around you today. You can be a star or a villain -· the choice is yours. A new partnershtp can lead you in a better direction. Your willingness to pitch in and help will make the difference. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): The emphasis is on what you can accomplish Let your imagination take over and invent a new angle to something that you already know how to do. It's all about being in the right place at the right time today. ••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You have the edge. You can be spectacular as long as you don't start putting off things you should be getting done right now. The time is right to excel. so get moving.***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may want to think twice about somethmg you are planning to do today. Putting things off isn't such abad idea. especially if you don't feel totally confident that you can do your best. •• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You'll be on the go. Everything will fall into place as long as you keep the momentum going. Travel and interaction with others will help you acquire the information you need to get what you want. 
**** 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Let your industrious side shine through. You can make ahuge impact on others if you are passionate about whatever it is you are working on right now. Opportunity knocks today so don't miss out. ••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will learn something very important from someone whose lifestyle is totally different from yours. Don't rule out combining a few different ideas in order to come up with something that works for you. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Getting your act together should be your intent. If you have been wasting time trying to take from others instead of doing for yourself. apologize and work at bemg more self-sufficient. ••• 
Birthday Baby: You are ahead of your tune and always setting new trends. You have a great sense of what works and what doesn't. You are intuttive, intelltgem and extremely inventive. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroauvice.wm and eugentalast.com. 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________________________ __ Address _____________________________________ City-----·---State _____ Zip______ 
---------·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 

THE OBSERVER 








PORTS
Wednesday, February 9, 2004 
page 32 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
20 

Undefeated No.4 Boston College falls as Irish stifle Eagles, 68-65, at Joyce Center 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
Trailing in the second half was nothing new to Boston College. 
Leaving the court as losers was. 
Behind 23 points from Colin Falls and a nine assist-zero turnover performance from Chris Thomas, Notre Dame (14-6, 6-4 Big East) handed Boston College (20-1, 9-1) its first loss of the season 68-65 at the Joyce Center Tuesday night. 
"They were 20-0, the No. 4 ranked team in the country and this is the Big East," Irish forward Torin Francis said. "Everyone was talking about how BC was undefeated. Yeah they were, and they are a good team, but that doesn't mean they couldn't lose." 
One of four Irish players in double figures, Palls found himself with wide-open looks the entire night, something he isn't used to after gaining a reputation as one of the Big East's top 3-point shooters. Boston College came in with the same game plan of wanting to prevent Falls from getting those looks. Its failure to exe­cute resulted in Falls being open all night. 
"We just made some mis­takes to allow them to get some opportunities. We just have to learn from them," Boston College coach Al Skinner said. "That's [the] first time I thought mentally that we made mistakes. That's something we can't just allow to happen." 
Thomas came into Tuesday night with some of his heaviest criticism in his career as Notre Dame's point guard. The senior looked like a different player against the Eagles and his quarterbacking of the game led to the win. 
"He played his game and did­n't let the weight of the world get on his shoulders. When's he calm like that, I think he's one of the best players in col­lege basketball," Irish co-cap­tain Jordan Cornette said. "When he made a mistake, he knew it wasn't the end of the world and kept playing. That's why he was so successful." 
The Irish broke open a 39-36 
see WIN/page 30 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles ready to face MIAA rival Adrian 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
Following a tough stretch against the top teams in the conference and finding them­selves on the losing end of three consecutive double­digit decisions, the Belles look to bounce back against the Adrian Bulldogs today. 
The Belles are currently 9­12 on the year and 4-8 in the MIAA. With four games remaining, Saint Mary's can finish the regular season with a winning record over­all and the Belles can still finish .500 in conference. The Belles' final four oppo­nents are a combined 32-44 this season -a fact that could make the Saint Mary's team optimistic. 
"We ended the game on Saturday playing really well," coach Suzanne Bellina said. "We have to find a high level to play at for the rest of the year." 
Even the current record is an improvement over last season's 7-18 mark that included an abysmal 2-12 conference record. Bellina, however, is wary of compla­cency. 
"We've definitely taken a step up, but a lot hinges on how we finish the season," she said. 
The Belles will begin their quest for a winning season tonight in Adrian, Mich. The Bulldogs come into this game in sixth place in the MIAA, one spot and one game 
see BELLES/page 28 

••• and 1 
Thomas sets tone as 
team unites behind 

senior point guard 
Chris Thomas made his mark Tuesday night not once, but twice. 
In black, permanent marker, Thomas scrawled the words "Just play" across the insides of his playing shoes in the locker room before the game. 
Then he put Notre Dame on his back to upset unde­feated Boston College. 
With or without a marker, how­ever, the sen­ior point guard proved Tuesday the story of the 2004-05 Irish season will finish according to how he writes it. 
"I thought Chris Thomas was fabulous orchestrating the game -leading, keeping us poised when they made runs," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "He set the whole tone." 
Thomas said friends advised him he had to return to playing 
GEOFF MATTESON/The Observer 

Colin Falls' 23 points were crucial to Notre Dame's upset of No. 4 Boston College Tuesday night. see THOMAS/page 30 


Pat Leonard 
Associate Sports Editor 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 


One-win Friars to host Irish 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Ediror 

Providence has won just one game all season, and tonight it is likely to stay that way. Red­hot Notre Dame travels to Alumni Hall this evening to face the Friars (1-19, 0-9 Big East), who have struggled all year. 
Meanwhile, the No. 6 Irish have hit a midseason stride as they carry a seven-game win streak into tonight's matchup. 
"Right now, I'm so excited about the way we're playing," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Notre Dame (20-3, 8-2) comes off a 75-4 7 win at Pittsburgh Saturday after­noon, when they used a late 14-0 first half run to put the game away for good. The Irish 
see FRIARS/page 28 

TIM: SULLIVAN/The Observer Center Teresa Borton goes for a layup against Washington on Dec. 11. The Irish face the 1-19 Friars today. 


CLUB SPORTS NFL 
MlB 
NBA NBA 
NCAA BASKETBAll 
LLI 

~ Field hockey com-Crennel to leave Bucks 121 Spurs 104 Illinois 57 
z petes in Ohio New England Celtics 97 Bobcats 86 Michigan 51 
The Washington
::5 

Nationals are preparingThe Super BowlHockey and other Mike James led the 
Spurs win again 

The No. 1 Illini stayed = c::c club sports saw success 
for their first springchampion's defensive Bucks with a career­despite not having Tim 

perfect in a close game in weekend competi­
training.
coordinator is headed to high 28 points. 

Duncan. 

against the Wolverines. tion. 
Clev land as head coach. 
ti: 
page 23page 27 

page 21 
page 18page 19 page 19 




