
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 48 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2005 
ACE provides relief for GuH Coast 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
Associate News Editor 
The fall brnak trip organized by the Allianee for Catholie Education (ACE) to a Gulf Coast area devastated by llurrieane Katrina endnd in prayer under a 400-year old live oak tree that had survived the storm -unlike nearly everything around it. 
"Everything around the tree had bmm destroyed: houses torn to bits, boats thrown up on the lands, ears overturned and a Church eompletely gutted," said Thomas Bambrick, an ACE assis­tant diredor who travnled to the Gulf Coast from Oet. 16 to Oct. 21 with a group of Notre Dame stu­denlc.;. "As Father Tim Scully led the group in prayer, a powerful sense of hope pervaded, as peo­ple reflected that blessings and moments of graefl often accom­pany tragedy." 
ACE organized the trip to Biloxi, Miss. to help rebuild area ACE and neighboring Catholic schools destroyed by Hurricane Katrina, said Colleen Garvey, assistant director for Alliance for Catholic Education. 
"I went because I feel it is important to help in whatever way possible," senior Mike Zintsmaster said. "One of our hosts ... had a fine quote: 'There's nothing worse than the man who does nothing because he can only do a little."' 
see ACE/page 4 

Value of Items Shipped to ACE 
i 
a. 
I ~ 
I f
jl
i 
II 
I 
.it 


There's never a dull motnent in city cabs 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
Assistant News Editor 
Every Thursday, Friday and Saturday night, thou­sands of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students 11ood the streets of South Bend, leaving campus behind to forget the stress and rigors of their every­day lives and have a good time. 
But what most students forget is that while they are having a blast, many South Bend residents are hard at work -and for some, like the eab drivers who cart the students around town, their work is the students. 
Michigan Taxi driver Hobert, whose last name has been withheld for pri­vacy reasons, allowed The Observer to ride along with him Wednesday 
see CAB/page 6 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Students stoked for Saturday's Inatchup 
By LUISA CABRERA 
News Writer 
Last weekend may have been inundated with Halloween events, but the lack of a home football game left Notre Dame students itching for Saturday's match­up against the Tennessnn Volunteers. 
The bye wonk follownd home gamns against the University of Southern California and Brigham Young Un.ivnrsity, making up an unusual five-game home stand over six successive weekends. 
Megan Spokes, a junior, said last weekend increased her anticipation and expnr.ta­tions for the eoming game. 
"I feel like a bye wnnk just magnifies your nxcitnmnnt for a gamn, espedally when we played so well against USC after our last byn wonk," shn said. "The team has had a rnst along with all the stu­
dents  and  fans.  Evnryorw  
should be  ready  to  go  for  
Saturday,"  

After the 5-2 Irish have started strongly this season, students like sophomore Nicholas Zehrbach are conl'i­dent the football lflam will capture a win against thn Volunteers. 
''I'm excited, but then again it's just another easy victory for the Irish," he said. "I think tho fact that we got much better over tlw ofT sna­son, while Tennessee obvi­
see GAME/page 4 



College closely guards its seal 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
News Writer 
Junior dass president Heidi Goeppinger never expected to encounter msistanee from the administration when she dnsigned a fleece jacket embroi­dered with 
the Saint Mary's seal for a class fundraisnr. 
"I wantnd to make thn l'leece look 


dassy with thn collegn crest on the front," Gonppinger said. "I notieed that it was on many items .in the bookstore, such as shot glasses, cards and folders. So I did not think it would boa problmn." 
Goeppinger's design was rejected by the administration because it incorporated the College's ollicial seal, which is dosely guarded by Saint Mary's to protect ilc.; veracity. 
Nick Farmer, the director of marketing communications, said the seal gained popularity 
in the past few years due to its 
"design and official appeal." 
"Unfortunately, using the seal 
as a general stamp for use on 
everything from flyers to doth­
ing is not appropriate," Farmer 
said. "While the seal is allowed 
for select projects, the College 
works to protect the integrity of the seal as a symbol reserved for oiTicial use by the president and the Board of Trustees." 
The initial rejection of the lleeee was not well received by Goeppinger and the junior dass board. 
"I asked my board to go around campus and take note of all the places they saw the seal," she said. 
Together, Goeppinger and the board noticed the seal was used not only on several bookstore items, but was also incorporat­ed into the architecture of the College. 
With the help of the Vice President of Student Affairs Linda Timm, the board was able to receive approval from the Board of Trustees and the administration to use the seal on the fleece. 
"Dr. Timm was so helpful," Goeppinger said. "She helped us gather all the information and then gave a presentation to the 
see SEAL/page 4 

SMC dining options cater to busy students 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
With busy academic, athlet­ic and social schedules, not all Saint Mary's students can eat dinner at the dining hall during the normal hours of 
4:30 to 7 p.m.-but now they have alternative option. 
Board of Governance stu­dent services commissioner Kate Wallach proposed the establishment of a new choice. Along with student· body president Kellye Mitros, vice president Susan Mcllduff and dining hall general man­ager Barry Bowles, Wallach helped create a pasta bar at Dalloway's. 
The pasta bar is open Monday through Thursday from 7:30 to 9:30 p.m. ­when the normal dining hall hours have ended. 
"Students should not be penalized for missing dinner due to a rigorous practiee and study regimen," Wallaeh said. "The pasta bar was an attempt to meet thosn needs, as well as extend the late din­ner option to others." 
The pasta bar is self-serve and ineludes breadstieks and salad at the exchange of one 
see DINING/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



On being 
•


unique 
I'm pretty much your standard Notre Dame student. 

Attention is often brought to the apparent homogeneity of our student body, and after being mistaken for another person 
Katie Perry 
three times in one day last week, I began to thiqk 
Assistant
maybe I am just 
News Editor 
another face in the crowd. 
The charcoal grey and black North Face jacket, the white T-shirt, the intentionally distressed jeans with iPod clipped securely to the front pocket -all of these things clearly are not helping me "stand out" from my peers. 
And lest we forget my first name is undoubtedly the most frequented on campus. In fact, I've stopped responding to it altogether. If I hear a "Hey Katie!" from across the quad, the person might as well be yelling "Hey Emily!" or "Hey Megan!"-or "Hey Chinedum!" for that matter. 
My last name doesn't add much in terms of individuality either. Just think of all the Perrys in the world: Steve Perry (lead singer of Journey), Joe Perry (lead guitarist of Aerosmith), Matthew Perry (Chandler Bing of "Friends") and Luke Perry (Dylan McKay of "Beverly Hills, 90210") to name a few. 
Now, I am either destined for greatness -or perhaps television obscurity -or my name is fairly common. Unfortunately, I think it's the latter. 
So, is that it? Am I really just a cookie-cutter product of the society in which I live? 
Nah. The way I see it, it's like my fourth grade teacher Miss Lannier used to tell us every morning after the Pledge of Allegiance. 
"You are all special in your own way!" 

1think we all look back at those elementary school moments, chuckle to ourselves and say, "Wow, my teacher was such a tool." And your teacher may very well have been a tool -I know mine was -but she may have had a point. 
We might be religiously homoge­nous at Notre Dame, we might be racially homogenous at Notre Dame, we might be socioeconomically homogenous at Notre Dame -but I don't think we are, in a general sense, homogenous at Notre Dame. 
I probably look the same as a lot of kids here, or maybe have the same name, but I'm pretty sure I'm not the exactly same as everyone else. 
After all, the reason I am wearing my North Face jacket is to hide a hot chocolate stain on my white T-shirt, because I am uniquely clumsy. And I'm wearing distressed jeans because -OK you caught me. But would you believe me if I told you my current iPod play list of choice is an 87 -song tribute to Bruce Springsteen, because I uniquely believe him to be the greatest human being alive? 
It's true-unlike the rumors that he was going to play at our pep rally, which I believed because I am uniquely gullible. And yes, I am still uniquely bitter. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
Friday, November 4, 2005
The Observer+ PAGE 2 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO WOULD YOU LIKE TO HEAR GIVE A LECTURE ON CAMPUS AND WHY? 









Daniel Klrkconnell  Gretchen Ryan  Matt Walters  Max Hand  Pat Nugent  Timmy Falvey  
freshman Keough  senior PW  freshman Keough  freshman Keough  freshman Keough  junior Dillon  
"Lou Cavadini, because he looks good in a Speedo."  "Jesus, because I have a lot of questions to ask him."  "David Hochstetler, because he walks the halls naked."  "Jimmy Buffet; he likes to drink beer and play ,music.  "White Goodman, because he is the beacon of human physical perfection."  "Shaquille O'Neal, because he's the Diesel-and also my hero."  


Baggy pants fall, trip up suspected thief 
FERNDALE, Mich. -A man suspected of stealing discs from a video store was tripped up by his baggy pants, falling twice before police captured him, authorities said. 
James Green, 30, of Detroit, took a half-dozen DVDs on Sunday night, and initially made his getaway on a bicycle, police said. 
Officers spotted him in an alley, and he abandoned the bike and ran, but his pants fell to his ankles and he tripped, Ferndale Detective Sgt. Patrick Jones told The Daily Tribune of Royal Oak. 
"Finally, he kicked off his pants and shoes" and then jumped a fence into the backyard of a house where he was captured, Jones said. 
On Monday, Green plead­ed guilty to resisting arrest and retail fraud and was ordered jailed for 30 days. 
Man lobs bed parts from 15th floor window 
HONG KONG -A Hong Kong man was arrested for throwing parts of his bed out of the window of his 15th floor apartment, police and local media said Friday. 
No one was injured by the falling planks of wood that the 42-year-old man lobbed out of his window Thursday morning, said a police spokeswoman who declined to be named. 
Police had to break into the man's apartment because he was emotional at the time of the arrest, she said. 
A neighbor said the man had recently moved furni­ture and electrical appli­ances from his flat to the garbage collection area in the housing estate, the South China Morning Post reported. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 

...I 
c( (.) 






0 

HIGH 72 HIGH HIGH HIGH
...I 

LOW 45 LOW LOW LOW 
60 53 
60 
45 
62 38 
IN BRIEF 

The sophomore class council is hosting Comedy Sports, an improvisational comedy act, in Washington Hall Today at 8 p.m. 
"Open Doors to the Physics Labs" will take place Saturday from 9 a.m. to noon in Nieuwland Science Hall. Professor Chris Kolda will speak from 10 a.m. to 11 in room 118 on "God's Dice: Einstein and the Journey from the Wedgewood Kilns to the Uncertainty Principle." 
Blak Images -the Black Cultural Arts Council's signa­ture event -will take place Saturday at 8 p.m. at Wash­ington Hall. Performances from First Class Steppers, Voices of Faith and Troop ND will high­light the event. 
An examination of how Catholicism is played out in col­legiate sports will be the focus of a three-day conference Nov. 10 to 12 in McKenna Hall. "Catholic Identity and the Role of Sport," sponsored by Notre Dame's Program in Catholic Social Tradition, will focus on topics such as character devel­opment, gender equity and amateurism and include pre­sentations by experts from across the country. 
The Notre Dame Department of Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) will present Noel Coward's "Design for Living" Nov. 8 to 20 in the Philbin Studio Theatre of Notre Dame's Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 

Atlanta 74 I 55 Boston 70 I 52 Chicago 70 I 44 Denver 58 I 30 Houston 84 I 66 Los Angeles 70 I 54 Minneapolis 50 136 New York 70 I 56 Philadelphia 70 I 52 Phoenix 83 I 58 Seattle 47 I 40 St. Louis 74 I 53 Tampa 84 I 66 Washington 73 151 
Friday, November 4, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC draw-s w-otnen from abroad 
College hosts 2foreign exchange students and 9 international students 
By LIZ HARTER News Writer 
A majority of Saint Mary's studnnts hail from thn American Midwest, while somn come from the coastal states. But every year, a handful of international and foreign exchange students also call the College home. 
This year, Saint Mary's plays host two foreign. exchange stu­dnnts in addition to its nine four-year international stu­dents from nine different coun­tries including Latvia, India, Guatemala and Uganda. 
Minjoung Kim (Sophie), from South Korea, and Daisy Bannerman, from Australia, are the two forejgn exchange students on campus this year. Both are here because their home institutions are sister schools with Saint Mary's. Saint Mary's reciprocates their universities' exchange pro­grams, sending students on the Korean Culture Studies Program in thn summer and tho Australian study abroad trip, said Tracy Hobison, direc­tor of International Living. 
The foreign exchange stu­donts normally spend a full year at Saint Mary's, she said, and she checks in with them ovor the course of that year to make sure their visas are kept up to date and to plans activi­ties during each semester to bring all of the international students together. 
Kim, who studies at the Catholic University of Korea, a co-ed college in Seoul, South Korea. said she initially found Saint Mary's boring because she was not used to being in an all-woman environment. She said she now finds it very calm and peaceful. 
Although she's 23 years old, Kim is studying first year sub­jects because she is not fluent in English. She can read and understand spoken English, States. 
"The people I've met at Saint Mary's have definitely made this experience for me," Bannerman said. "Everyone has been so hospitable and welcoming, I don't know how I will ever leave." 
Neither girl will go home at any point during their stay because of the long flights, but both call home regularly. Bannerman talks on the phone with her family and friends 
she said, but still struggles to speak. 
"I can't speak my opinions," Kim said. "I can't participate in class activities." 
Bannerman is from Perth, Australia, a placed she described as "the most isolated city in the world." She studies at the 
"The people I've met at Saint Mary's have definitely made this experience for me., 
Daisy Bannerman foreign exchange student 
and hopes to be able to meet a few friends in Canada before flying back to Australia. 
Kim uses a Webcam to speak to her parents every Thursday so that they can see each other as well as talk and ease the home­sickness. 
Both were 

University of Notre Dame in Fremantle, Australia, one of the locations where Saint Mary's and Notre Dame stu­dents can choose to study abroad. 
She knew what to expect coming into an all-women environment, Bannerman said, becausn she attended an all­girls' high school. 
A junior, Bannerman is only here for one semester because the school year in Australia is different from the United 
recently introduced  to  the  
American  traditions  of  
Halloween.  

Bannerman said Halloween isn't celebrated as theatrically in Australia. 
"To see all the mock graves erected in the front yards around town and pumpkins for sale on every corner was defi­nitely different," Bannerman said. 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteOl@saintmarys.edu 

World-famous artist speaks to large crovvd 
Graphic design students listen at Snite 
By KATIE MCANANY News Writer 
World-renowned graphic designer Michael Bierut spoke to graphic design stu­dents about his life and career at the Snite Museum of Art Thursday. 
Bierut emphasized the importance of design in con­temporary society. 
"If you think that doing graphic design doesn't make a difference, take the presi­dential elections of 2000," he said. "The problems with voting were based around the poor design of the bal­lot." 
Senior Evan DeWalt said he attended the lecture because of Bierut's fame and prestige in the world of graphic design. 
"He has a great sense of humor and is really person­able, so on top of being a huge name in the business, I knew he'd be interesting," he said. 
Bierut described his devel­opment as a graphic artist over throughout his lifetime. The artist even shared a connection he had with the University as a child ­Beirut's Catholic mother had a dream for her son to attend Notre Dame. 
"I was excited at the opportunity to actually full'ill my mother's dream, so com­ing to Notre Dame seemed very logical," Bierut said. 
Since 1980 Bierut has worked for Pentagram, a prestigious graphic design firm that consists of collabo­ration between roughly 20 graphic artists. Through Pentagram, Bierut designed for clients such as Walt Disney Company, Godiva Chocolatier, Princeton University, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, Harley­Davidson and the Library of Congress. 
Some of Bierut's more famous projects include graphic design for Celebration City, Fla., street signs in downtown Manhattan and the of'ficial logo for Citi bank. 
Currently, Bierut is collab­orating to design the interi­or of a new building for the New York Times. 
Approximately 200 people were in attendance includ­ing not only University stu­dents, but also graphic design students from Purdue 

University,  Indiana  
University  and  Goshen  
College.  

Contact Katie McAnany at kmcanany@nd.edu 
Mondav 11/1: ·Dr. Jean Kilbourne; <The Naked Truth: <Advertising's I1nage ofWomen 1 7pm 101 DBRT Lecture followed by reception/book sig11ing Thursdav 11/10:Wednesdav 11/9: 360°: Perspectives of Facing the Freshman (or Sophomore, Junior Eating Disorders and Senior 15): Strategies to Assess the Causes Open fishbowl and Reverse the Problem discussion featuring 7pm Oak Room, South Dining Hall friends, family, • SUrviVOrS, A Life Uncommon-and professionals. Student Facilitated Group for Women 8pm North Dining Hall 9pm 316 Coleman Morse roomF ponsored bv: student government, gender relations center, oit, office of the president, student affairs, office ofthe registrar, U-B Well, a life uncommon, food services, departments of accountancy, anthropology, classics, english, gender studies, music and sociology  

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 4, 2005 
ACE 
continued from page 1 
Bambrick said 17 students were picked to attend the service seminar out of approximately 30 who applied. 
"Seeing the aftermath of the hurricane as we drove along the Gulf Coast was completely over­whelming. I've never seen such destruction," senior Barrs Lang said. "After hearing the story of the local priest and walking through his home which had at one point been submerged in 52 inches of water, we were all des­perate to help in any way we could." 
The group stayed in Mobile, Ala. at one of the diocesan retreat centers, Bambrick said, and worked at area Catholic schools, including Resurrection Elementary School, Resurrection Catholic High School and St. Peter the Apostle Elementary school. 
"At three of the schools, they were in session so we were work­ing while they were in classes," Bambrick said. "The principals who were asking us to do certain things were trying to adminis­trate and run the school because they had just ... reopened." 
The group was shocked with the amount of work there was, and still needs to be done, in the flood-stricken area. 
'There was so much destruc­tion and devastation that they have months and months and years even that needs to hap­pen," Bambrick said. "I was also surprised because they told us that it was already so much bet­ter than it was after the hurri­cane." 
The group used tools supplied by the diocese and used money from the ACE hurricane relief fund to buy supplies for the schools. 
"In a week filled with both suf­fering and hope, we witnessed schools at every stage of recov­ery, from buildings still strewn with rubble to those newly cleaned and even newly con­structed," Bambrick said. 
The group assisted four differ­ent schools at every stage of recovery, Bambrick said. 
"The group I was in worked at a school that was rebuilt in a roller rink," Lang said. "We installed Internet ports in every classroom and office in the build­ing. This involved crawling through ceilings, running wires and installing jacks and ports. It was hard work but the final product truly gave us a sense of accomplishment." 
Students also organized books donated from all over the nation for the school's new library, ripped tiles off of the floor at a St. Vincent de Paul center and helped clean areas covered in debris and flood water, senior Kat Moravek said. 

Moravek said there was a great level of hope and determination in the schools in once beautiful communities that were "now a pile of debris." 
"What struck me most when I first arrived was the amazing spirit of the people afflicted by the disaster. They were so full of hope and determination and so incredibly grateful for our pres­ence," senior Amber Jackson said. 
In addition to sending students to the Gulf Coast, ACE will be dis­persing the $62,000 collected by the University for Katrina relief. 
"That contribution is composed of one quarter of the stadium col­lection," Garvey said, referring to the Sept. 17 collection at the Michigan State football game that raised more than $240,000. 
ACE worked for weeks on sending a shipment of supplies to the region to support the devas­tation of ACE schools in the affiicted areas. 
A total of $30,359 worth of products were successfully deliv­ered to Biloxi on Oct. 24. 
In an Oct. 27 letter to executive assistant to the president Frances Shavers, Timothy Gibney, assis­tant vice president for procure­ment services, described the breakdown of products delivered. 
After contacting individuals in the Biloxi area, Gibney was bet­ter able to discern what products were needed most in schools. 
The licensing department sent 24 boxes of shirts of various sizes, valued at $22,260 total, and four boxes of hats and visors, valued at $960. 
NDSurplus, whose pricing is reduced significantly compared to the fair value market, sent 23 computer systems valued at $2,771 and 98 miscellaneous fur­niture items valued at $1,928. 
Building Services donated 500 towels, 60 bed pads and 90 blan­kets, Gibney said. 
The Office of Information Technologies (OIT) donated one fax machine, one scanner and ten DVDNCR players. 
An additional $80,000 has been raised by ACE graduates and friends, Garvey said. 
"Returning to Notre Dame at the end of the week, we could not help buy feel a renewed sense of faith and trust, as the terrible images of devastation were over­come by the stronger images of determination and hope," Bambrick said. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kntonac@nd.edu 
denied. They would rather put a quote on a shirt and be done 

Seal 

with it." continued from page 1 Although Farmer encour­
ages student organizations to Board, who in turn let us use create T-shirts that enhance the seal on our fleece." the image of Saint Mary's, he The junior class board's is unable to control the cre­
right to use their seal on their ation and selling of "under­fleece does not reflect the ground" T-shirts made by stu­administration's approval to dents for personal profits. allow it to be used on other This year, several seniors products or apparel. created yellow T-shirts to 
"It is a one time deal [and] it wear to the football game that may not happen again," she say "SMC Chicks" on the front said. "Dr. Timm told us that in and "Win or Loose, We Still the last 14 years no one had Booze" on the back. ever asked why the seal could Senior Angela Rizzo said not be used or challenged these T-shirts do not disgrace 
[administra­ the  image  of  
tion's] refusal." Farmer said  "I am happy to be  the College, but allow students  
Saint Mary's is also known for its French cross logo, which came from a  wearing my SMC chicks T-shirt and representing my college. "  to incorporate their Saint Mary's pride into Notre Dame football  
second form of  games.  
the college seal. The cross sym­bolizes the  Angela Rizzo senior  "I am happy to be wearing my SMC chicks  

College's Catholic her­itage and more specifically, its founding by the Congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
Several years ago the French cross image was used on apparel and other products as an image separated from the entirety of the seal. The College permitted this as long as the Saint Mary's name was closely linked to it. 
"Since that time, the French cross has gained popularity as an unofficial stand-alone 'logo' of the College," Farmer said. "Unfortunately, this pop­ularity has led to inappropri­ate use of the cross and has trivialized it religious signifi­cance." 
French club member Brooke Sheldon also encountered administration disapproval for her creation of a club T-shirt that incorporated a chick wearing a beret. She believes the rejection was due to the potentially derogatory nick­name of "SMC chick" that is sometimes associated with Saint Mary's students. 
Sheldon, who was told by the administration that College apparel could not con­tain a person, animal or char­acter, fmds it difficult to come up with creative ideas for T­shirts. 
"Some people may have been offended by the chick, but it is all in good fun which makes it OK," she said. "I think the T-shirt policy scares people away because they don't want all their work to be T-shirt and rep­
resenting my college, Saint Mary's College, while cheering on the school across the street," she said. 
Senior Constance Campe agreed, and noted how many positive comments she receives from students and alumnae while wearing her shirt. 
"I don't think that it tar­nished our school at all, in fact I think it shows how much we have grown in a way," she said. "We've had comments from alumnae saying that no one would ever be able to wear a shirt like that when they went here, and they think it's great that we can now." 
Farmer and the College hope to reflect the progress the College has made through an upcoming identity initiative that will clarify the Saint Mary's identity and the best ways to distinguish and pro­tect it. The study will include the input from students, facul­ty, staff and the outside com­munity such as alumnae and prospective students. 
"A specific part of the study will examine all of the Saint Mary's logos and graphics and how they are used and per­ceived," he said. "Based on the research, a new set of graphic standards will provide clarity about how we repre­sent the College, and specific ways to use our unique sym­bols to build a strong, consis­tent image of Saint Mary's." · 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


GaiDe 
continued from page 1 

ously did not, is a huge indi­cator that we are going to pull a large margin victory this Saturday." 
Sophomore Pat Lyons said 
despite  last  year's  win  
against  Tennessee,  the  
biggest indicator for a win  

this season is the success the team has achieved thus far. 
Though there were worries of being overwhelmed with so many consecutive home games, students are taking this season's unique schedule in stride. 
"I don't think it's made too many problems for me," Lyons said. "I've just had to be smarter about budgeting my time." 
Many students feel the sea­son is passing them by. 
"In a way I feel like the sea­son is going fast because there have been so many games already," said junior Annie Parrett. "With only [three] home games so far, it [also] seems like the home season is still just beginning. I'm sure it will be a blur with three in a row at home." 
Students are also keyed up for Friday's pep rally and for the opportunity to see friends and family visiting for the game. 
Hobbs said this game will be especially memorable because many of her friends that graduated last year will be coming to South Bend. 
Pep rallies for Notre Dame's final three home games against Tennessee, Navy and Syracuse will require tickets for non-student fans wishing to attend. In the past, fans could enter the pep rally by waiting in line; however, a limited number of free tickets will be made available to the public on the day of the rally due to increased demand. 
Spokes said the past proce­dure was a better way of handling the admittance of fans. 
"I think that requiring fans to get tickets may discourage the attendance to the event," she said. "Pep rallies are meant for anyone and every­one who loves Notre Dame to get excited for the game. By limiting the event with tick­ets, you're leaving out some dedicated fans." 
Contact Luisa Cabrera at lcabrera@nd.edu 

small step in the process of Mcllduff created the group modifications needed to meet with the committees to increasing overall student sat­this year to specifically target student demands," she said. increase healthy options at


Dining 

isfaction." "student services." The publicity subcommittee the dining hall and revise the continued from page 1 Freshman basketball player "The student dining commit­is in charge of creating polls menus at Dalloway's and the 
Meghan Conaty said she tee had been the goal of cur­and surveys to elevate student Cyber Cafe. meal on a student meal plan. sometimes has trouble mak­rent general manager, Barry awareness and gather organ­The new dining options will Saint Mary's students also ing it to the dining hall within Bowles, for quite some time ized data to highlight areas of continue to change under the have the option of eating at dinner hours, but she does now," Wallach said. need and improvement, leadership of Wallach and the the Cyber Cafe, but the cafe not want to resort to using At the committee's first Wallach said. various student-run groups. accepts cash -or "Munch her cash or meeting last Retail is in charge of other "As this is a new committee Money" -rather than a meal "Munch Money" Thursday, dining locations and will sit at Saint Mary's, I am sure our exchange. when she misses Wallach created on the Dalloway's and Cyber direction will be influenced by
"I went to the 
Wallach said the pasta bar a meal for a subcommittees Cafe boards monthly. The the feedback and need of the
pasta bar last 
is not only for athletes and practice or game. consisting of subcommittee will also form students," Wallach said. "Our other busy students. "I went to the week and it was budget, publicity, collaborative goals with those goals are team oriented. In 
"It is also a late night din­pasta bar last perfect.,, retail and a spe­established by Wallach and order to implement change, ner option to others," she week and it was cial events com­the SMC Board of Governance. we need to gather ideas from said. perfect," she mittee. The special events commit­the student body, see if our 
Wallach said opening night said. "The food Meghan Conaty Wallach said tee will work with the dining aims can fit the budget, make "went well" in terms of was good and I freshman the budget sub­hall to plan cultural, holiday modifications in the menu or turnout. didn't have to committee tracks and other events. They will organization in the dining 
"We had about 40 people spend any money where student also reach out to the students area, and then gather more come that night," she said. because it was covered by my money is going and deter­who have different eating feedback to see if our means "Still in our first week, we are meal plan." mines if the goals are reason­styles such as vegetarians or justified the end." getting the same turnout as Students on the student din­able to follow. students with busy schedules we did on the first day ... I ing committee assist Wallach "To keep a balanced budg­such as athletes. Contact Katie Kohler at hope [the pasta bar] will be a with the pasta bar. Mitros and et, they also will consider the Wallach said she is working kkoehleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Friday, November 4, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Paris-area riots spread to 20 towns 
AULNAY-SOUS-BOIS -A week of riots in poor neighborhoods outside Paris gained dangerous new momentum Thursday, with youths shooting at police and firelighters and attacking trains and symbols of the French state. 
J."adng mounting criticism, Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin vowed to restore order as the violence that l~ruptPd Oct. 27 spread to at least 20 towns, highlighting the rrustration simnwring in housing projflcts that are home to many North African immi­grants. 
l'olic1~ deployed for a feared eighth night of dashes, after bands of youths lobbing stones and pdrol bombs ignored President Jacques Chime's appeal for calm a day earlier. 
"I will not aeeept organized gangs making the law in sonw neighborhoods. I will not accept having erinw networks and drug traf­ficking profiting from disorder," Villepin said at the Senate in between emergency meet­ings railed over the riots. 
Bird flu could hurt Asian economies 
MANILA-Tlw Asian Devnlopmnnt Bank projnc~ted Thursday that a bird flu pandmn­ir in Asia could kill 3 million people, cause nronomie losses of up to nearly $300 billion and possibly push the world into a reces­sion. 
China, llong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand would likely be hit hardest in tlw evnnt of an outbreak, the report said. 
Tlw bank oullined two potential seenar­ios, both assuming a pandemic would last about a year. would cause 20 pereent of the region's J)opulation to fall ill and would kill 
0.5 pnreent of thmn -or 3 million pnople. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Alito hearings to begin in January 
WASIIINGTON -The Hepubliean-eontrolled Snnatn will begin hearings Jan. 9 on Judge Samuel /\lito's appointment to the Supreme Court, leaders of the Judiciary Committee announ1~ed Thursday, a bipartisan repudiation of Prnsidnnt Bush's rail for a final eonlirmation vote belhre ynar's end. 
"It simply wwm't possible to aeeommodatn the sdwduln that thn White llousn wanted," said Sen. Arl~m Speder, H-Pa., the eommittne chair­man. lie outlined a timetabln that envisions five days of hearings, lhllownd by a vote in eommit­tnn on Jan. 17 and thn full Senate on Jan. 20. 
"It's far more important to do it right than fast," said Vermont Sen. Patrick Leahy, the sen­ior Democrat on the eommittee. "In this case, I suspect we're doing both." 
Judge withdraws from DeLay case 
AUSTIN -A nnw judge was seleeted to pre­side over Hnp. Tom DeLay's conspiracy and monny laundering trial Thursday, after another judge became the second to step away from involvement in the ca.'ie bneause of political con­tributions hn ha.'i made. 
Administrative Judge lLB. Schraub, a Hepubliean who wa.'i to have selected the judge for the case, withdrew after Travis County District Attorney Honnie Earle filed a rnquest to have him rnmovnd. Two days earlier, District Judge Bob Pnrkins was removnd from the ease at DnLay's rnquest because of his contributions to Dmnocrats. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Geist man shoots himself and son 
INI>IANAPOLIS -A Northeastside ehurch eongrngation is rneling today after a member killnd his 4-ytmr-old son and then shot himsell' after sending out an B-mail to 80 people nxplaining his actions. 
Polien limnd the bodies of Edward McGuffey, 37, and his son, Jason, Wednesday night in a home in the 9900 block of Beam Ridge Drive, in the~ Geist arna on Indianapolis' Northeast side. MdiuiTny blamed a pending divoree and his wife's plans for moving away with their son. 
Libby pleads not guilty at trial 
Cheney's former chiefof staff attempts to 'clear his good name' in felony indictment 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Vice President Dick Cheney's former chief of staff plead­ed not guilty to a live-count felony indietment Thursday in the CIA leak easn, signal­ing a protracted court bat­tle that is sure to prolong debate about the White House's prewar use of intelligence on Iraq. 
Lewis Libby appeared at his arraignment with trial lawyers Ted Wnlls and William Jeffress, known for their ability to win jury acquittals for high-profile clients in white-eollar criminal cases. 
"With respeet, your honor, I plead not guilty," Libby told U.S. District Judge Heggie Walton, a former prosecutor who has spent two decades as a judge in the nation's capi­tal. 
Cheney and othnr top White Ilouse oflieials could be ealled to testify if Libby goes to trial. He is eharged with obstruction of justice, two eounts of lying to the FBI and two eounts of committing perjury before a federal grand jury. 
Hecovering from a foot injury, Libby leaned his crutehes against a lectern from which lawyers nor­mally question witnesses or address the court. 

"He has declared to the husband, former U.S. later said the passage reporters' notns and world that he is inno­Ambassador Joseph should have been taken Libby's lawyers eould cent," Wells said outside Wilson, accused the admin­out of the president's demand the government the courthouse after the istration of twisting intelli­address. turn over an extensive 10-minute session. "He gence in the run-up to the In court in Washington, amount of classilied infor­wants to clear his good war to exaggerate the Iraqi Libby waived his right to a mation from the CIA about name, and he wants a threat from weapons of speedy trial. It will take Plame's eovert status. jury trial." mass destruction. his legal team three The indietment says 
Libby's indictment has Wilson made his accusa­months to get security Libby got information enabled Democrats to raise tion after a CIA-sponsored clearances and to exam­about Plame's identity in anew questions about the trip to Africa in which he ine classified information June 20(>:{ from Cheney, Bush administration's pri­said he found no evidence that the prosecution must the State Department and mary justification for to support the allegation produee to the defense. the CIA, then spread it to invading Iraq, the incorrect that Iraq had an agree­Jeffress said there may New York Times rnporter assertion that Saddam ment to acquire uranium be disputes over the use of Judith Miller and Time Hussein had weapons of from Niger. classified information and magazine reporter Matt mass destruction. Bush told the nation on that there may be First Cooper. Libby told FBI 
Libby was charged with Jan. 28, 2003, that "the Amendment issues. He agents and a fednral lying to investigators and British government has was referring to the fact grand jury that his infor­the grand jury about leak­learned that Saddam that journalists are among mation had come from ing the CIA status of covert Hussein recently sought the case's central witness­NBC rnporter Tim Hussert. CIA officer Valerie Plame to significant quantities of es Russert says he and reporters. Plame's CIA sta­uranium from Africa." Legal experts say there Libby never discussed tus was exposed after her The Bush administration could be demands for Wilson or his wife. 

BELGIUM 

Secret CIA prisons investigated 
Associated Press 
BRUSSELS -The European Union and the continent's top human rights group said Thursday they will investigate allegations the CIA set up secret jails in east­ern Europe and elsewhere to interrogate terror suspects, and the Hed Cross demanded access to any prisoners. 
Human Hights Watch said it has evidence, based on flight logs, that indicate the CIA transported sus­pects captured in Afghanistan to Poland and Homania. But the two countries -and others in the for­mer Soviet bloc -denied the alle­gations. U.S. officials have refused to confirm or deny the claims. 

Such prisons, European officials say, would violate the continent's human rights principles. At work may be a complex web of global politics, in which eastern European countries face choices between the views of the European Union and their interest in close ties with the United States. 
The International Committee of the Red Cross expressed strong interest in the claims, first report­ed Wednesday in the Washington Post, that the CIA has been hiding and interrogating some of its most important ai-Qaida captives at Soviet-era compounds. 
Hed Cross chief spokeswoman Antonella Notari said the agency asked Washington about the alln­gations and requnsted aceess to the prisons if they exist. Thn Hed Cross, which has exclusive rights to visit terror suspects detained at a U.S. military base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, long has been coneerned about reports U.S. officials were hiding detainees from ICHC delegatns. 

..-----------~---------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 4, 2005 
Cab 
continued from page 1 

night. lie said that while school is in session, almost all the business cab companies do is with students. 
"Thursday, Friday, Saturday -regular Notre Dame traffic, you might get 150 to 200 calls a night," he said. "A home game? Two or three times that." 
Hobert, 35, said he moved to South Bend from Los Angeles nine years ago and has been driving cabs for various com­panics since then. With so much experience under his belt, he has hundreds or sto­ries about driving through town -many of which involve students, and most of which arc unprintable. 
Robert said he has seen "pretty much everything" there is to be seen inside and outside his cab, ranging from the busting of Boat Club in January 2003, to nudity, to shady characters attempting to harass women he was driv­ing, to disgusting bodily f1uids -which he said he sees on a fairly regular basis. 
"Don't be afraid to tap us on the shoulder, let us know you're going to puke," he said. "If someone pukes in my cab, I charge $50. A, I have to clean it up and B, I'm done for the night." 
Hobert said intoxicated stu­dents vomiting or "passing out and losing bladder con­trol" is a common occurrence for cabbies, and once such a situation has occurred, the driver has to stop driving, because no one will want to sit in their cab -least of all the drivers, who are in their vehicles for extended lengths of time. 
"I work 15 to 18 hours a day, six days a week," he said. 
Unfortunately for the driv­ers, Robert said most of that time is spent "sitting and waiting" in the cabs for calls to come in. Drivers wait at Main Circle or at the airport, and Robert said he likes to read to pass the spans of time before calls become frequent. 
"They start around 11 p.m., then at 1 a.m. they die down until 2:30a.m.," he said. "For parties, it's four, sometimes 


five in the morning." 
Hobert said one common problem cab drivers in the area experience is that students eager to be picked up will call multiple cab companies and leave with whichev­er one arrives first, even if the first number they call said the wait would be short. 
"They don't know how annoying it is when they call four or five different cab quented. 
Robert said many times stu­dents returning home from bars will have spent all their money and have problems coming up with return fare, which takes money out of the drivers' pockets. He also offered suggestions for stu­dents who may face the prob­lem. 
"Sometimes, you're lucky to get the whole fare," he said. "!Students should] always make sure they have at least $2 before you leave that bar." 
Hobert also said it would be helpful to drivers if students collected money before the ride was over so that "one 
"They don't know how annoying it is when they call four or five different cab companies and then they're not there." 
Robert taxi cab driver 

person could pay one bill." 
Fares with Michiana Taxi -like other area cab companies popular with students, such as ABC Cab, Checker Cab, City Cab, Express Cab, Minute Cab, Shamrock and United Cab -are generally $2 
companies and then they're not there," Robert said. "It can really screw you up on a busy night to go [to where the student called from] and som.~body's not there for a cab. 
Robert said most students request to be picked up from campus and delivered to local bars, citing RumHunners, Bookmakers, The Linebacker, Club Fever, Club Landing and The Library as the most fre­a head, with a $6 minimum and charges of $8 from cam­pus to Mishawaka and $9 to downtown. One student who rode with Hobert, prepared to pay the fee from campus to RumRunners, leaned back into the cab and handed Robert two extra dollars. 
"That's a rare occurrence," Robert said. "If you get a tip from an ND student or Saint Mary's student, you're lucky." 
Robert said "nine times out of 10" students fail to tip, either because they forget or did not bring enough money. He said tips help alleviate the costs of gas for the cab, which typically costs $35 to $40. Robert said he understands that college is a hard time financially, but he wishes stu­dents would remember to tip more often for the services they receive. 
"They're students, they're poor," he said. "Well, so am I, I drive a cab." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 


Friday, November 4, 2005 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,522.59 +49.86 
ones
J 4 
lJfx Same: Down: Composite Volum 
1,667 164 J.ll'1 2,690,977,070 
AMEX 1.694.21 +13.00 NASDAQ 2,160.22 +15.91 NYSE 7,534.81 +24.9]: l S&PSOO 1,219.94 +5.18 NIKK£1(Tol<yo) 13,894.78 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5,431.90 +73.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ) +1.51 +0.59 39.94 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -2.24 -0.28 12.20 JDS UNIPHASE ODSU) +8.06 +0.18 2.40 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.02 26.44
-0.08 INTEL CP (INTC) +0.60 23.89
+2.58 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.75 +0.36 48.37 10-YEAR NOTE +0.74 +0.34 46.44 5-YEAR NOTE + 1.00 +0.45 45.42 +0.26 +0.10 38.47
3-MONTH BILL 
Commodities 

UGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +2.03 61.78 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) -2.70 461.90 PORK BELUES (cents/lb.) -0.20 88.28 
Excho e Rates 

YEN 
117.1650 EURO 
0.8370 POUND 
0.5647 CANADIAN$ 
1.1810 
IN BRIEF 
Stocks boost from high retail sales 
NEW YOHK -A wide swath of good news, from better-than-expected retail sales and worknr produetivity figures to a major court vietory for Merck & Co., drove stocks higher Thursday, although a jump in oil prices limited the gains. 
Wall Street's inflation worries were mollified 
by th11 latest government report on productivi­
ty, which rose 4.1 percent in the third quarter, 
tlw biggest rise in a year. With workers more 
productive, they can be paid more without 
increasing the risk of inflation. 
And while investors remain cautious about consunwr spending this winter due to high healing prices, October's retail sales reports were generally stronger than expected, with Wal-Mart Stores lne., Costco Wholesale Corp. and Nordstrom Inc. all surpassing expecta­tions. 
Stoek buyers received further encouragement by a rnporl showing growth in th1~ service sec­tor. The Institute for Supply Management's serviens index rose to 60 in October from 53.3 in Snpternber and three points better than eeonornists had foreeasl. 
Budget deficits may affect economy WASIIIN(;TON -With just three months left bnf'ore he leaves off'iee, Federal Heserve Chairman Alan c;rnenspan raisnd a warning to Congrnss: The eounlry eould face "serious eeo­nomie disruptions" if bloated budget delieiL'> are not eurbml. 
The Fml chi11f"s strong eommenl'i, made during an appearanc1~ Thursday before Congress' Joint Eeonomic Committee, come after the government produeed a $31 CJ billion budget deficit this year -an improvenwnt from the record amount of n1d ink rP!,ristered in 2004 but still the third-high­est delidt on record. 
In tlw short term, costs related to rebuilding af'l11r the trio of devastating hurrieanes will make it harder to improve the nation's balanee sheel<;, he aeknowledgml. In the long term, a huge wave of rnliring baby boomers will put massive strains on government resources, he said. 
"Thern arn no easy ehoiees. Easy choices are long gone," said Greenspan, whose 18-plus year run at the Fed comes to an end on Jan. 31. 
Congress is working on separate packages of lax eul<; and spending cuts. 

THE OBSERVER 


USINESS 
page 7 

Merck & Co deemed not liable 
Idaho Vioxx user brings lawsuit that patients were not warned ofdrug's risks 
Associated Press 
ATLANTIC CITY -The New Jersey-based drug maker won the second of thousands of lawsuits it faces over its recalled pain medication, Vioxx. on Thursday as a jury in its home state found that the eompany had ade­quately warned con­sumers about the pill's risks. The verdict absolved Merck of liabili­ty for a heart attack suf­fered by an Idaho Vioxx user. 
Barely three months ago, a Texas jury ruled that Merck was liable for the death ol' a Vioxx user and slapped it with more than a quarter billion dollars in damages. 
Arter deliberating for less than eight hours over three days, tlw jury cleared the nation's No. 5 pharmaceutical eompany of allegations it failed to warn consumers about the drug's risks and engaged in "uncon­scionable eommercial practices" in marketing it to doctors and their patients. 

The verdict was Merck's first win out of two Vioxx-related trials. Merck is appealing the Texas verdict, but still faces about 7,000 law­suits over Vioxx, which it eral more cases, includ­"There's an awful lot at n y lras s e t as i d e j u s l voluntarily pulled off the ing a federal case that stake, not just for $675 million for legal market last year because will start Nov. 28 in Merck," but for the phar­defense costs, but noth­of links to heart attacks Houston, before lawyers maceutical industry and ing for jury awards or and strokes after 18 can find any sort of patients, he said, claim­settlements. months' use. precedent that might ing floods of lawsuits can "It's still going to be a 
Much of the New Jersey determine Merck's ulti­dis courage scientif'ic marathon" in the courts, trial, eagerly watched by mate Vioxx liability. research and keep need­said Barbara Ryan, phar­lawyers and plaintiffs Merck was clearly elat­ed drugs off the market. maceuticals analyst at from around the country, ed by its victory. Merck's stock rose Deutsche Bank North relied on the testimony of "We feel very much vin­$1.07, or 3.8 percent, to America. medical experts. Witnesses dicated," Merck general $29.48 after the verdict. About 20 million for Merck testified the counsel Kenneth Frazier More than 32 million Americans took Vioxx company believed Vioxx said. "The jury found in shares changed hands in after it hit the market, was safe for the heart our favor, we believe, barely two hours on the embracing it for its effec­before the drug was because the evidence New York Stock tiveness in relieving pain pulled from the market in showed that Merck acted Exchange -about four while sparing them the response to a study that responsibly." times the stock's normal upset stomachs, ulcers showed it doubled risk of Frazier said Merck will daily volume. and other gastric prob­heart attacks and strokes fight each lawsuit indi­Wall Street analysts lems associated with when taken for at least vidually, adding that said the company clearly some otlwr analgesics. At 18 months. mass settlements aren't will face huge legal costs its peak, Vioxx was a 
Thursday's verdict appropriate because given its plan to fight $2.5 billion-a-year block­means it might take sev-facts in each case differ. each lawsuit. The compa-buster. 

FRB raises interest rate to 4 percent 
Special to The Observer 
This article was written by the Student International Business Council-Finance Division. 
On Tuesday Nov. 1, the Federal Reserve Board raised interest rates ­or rather the federal funds rate ­another quarter of a percentage point to 4 percent following President Bush's appointment of Benjamin Bernanke as Chairman of the Federal Reserve. 
Bush's move to replace former chairman Alan Greenspan surprised very few given Bernanke's credentials. 
Currently Bush's top economic advi­sor, Bernanke served as ehair of the Princeton University Department of Economics and governor of the Atlanta Reserve Bank for several years. 

Bernanke's appointment alleviated concerns that a new chairman would bring significant changes in federal policies -something experts said could disrupt continuity in the American economy. 
Markets reacted favorably to Bush's pick because Bernanke was seen as a familiar face in the economy likely maintain most of the polieies of Alan Greenspan. 
Bernanke is a proponent of "infla­tion-targeting," which is intended to help strengthen the dollar and allow favorable responses by the economy. 
However, a stronger dollar entails that exports will decrease and imports will increase, adding pressure to the already enormous accounl<> delidt. 
But both Bernanke and Greenspan will to allow this to happen in order to reap the benefits of a lower inflation. Thus, it appears the recent upward trend of the Federal Funds Hate will continue after Bernanke's ollieial eon­lirmation. 
Once the Senate confirms his appointment, Bernanke will take office immediately following Greenspan's retirement on Jan. 31. 
Reports from the previous meeting in late September indicated a moder­ate expansion in economic aetivity in August and early September. 

r--------­
page 8 Friday, November 4, 2005
The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS 
Public Broadcasting ex-chairman resigns 
Embattled Kenneth Y Tomlinson steps down 
Asso~iated Press 
WASIIINGTON -The former chairman oL the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, under fire for promoting conservative pro­gramming, resigned Thursday from the corporation's board after the panel reviewed an inw~stigative report on his activi­ties. 
Kenneth Y. Tomlinson, whose term as board chairman ended two months ago, left the board after the third day of closed­door meetings by the board of directors to review the findings of the agency's inspector general about his tenure. 
In a statement e-mailed to reporters and interest groups, the board said "both the board and Mr. Tomlinson believe it is in the best interests of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting that he no longer remain on the board." 
The move did not quiet critics of Tomlinson's nearly two-year tenure, who called for public release of the investigative find­ings and for the board to repudi­ate his policies. 
The board's statement did not detail the inspector general's findings, which are expected to be released later this month but said "Tomlinson strongly dis­putes the findings." 
Tomlinson did not respond to a voice mail message left on his home telephone Thursday night seeking his comments. 
The investigation was begun after Reps. David Obey, D-Wis., and John Dingel, D-Mich., called in May for CPB Inspector General Kenneth A. Konz to look into reports that Tomlinson used questionable tactics and corpo­ration funds to exert political influence over public broadcast­ing. 

The board said it "does not believe that Mr. Tomlinson acted maliciously or with any intent to harm CPB or public broadcast­ing" but it "expresses its disap­pointment in the performance of former key staff whose responsi­bility it was to advise the board and its members." Corporation spokesman Michael Levy could not be reached Thursday night for elaboration. 
1-'inally, the board commended Tomlinson "for his legitimate efforts to achieve balance and objectivity in public broadcast­ing." 
Obey and Dingell asked the inspector general to investigate a consulting contract that, according to The New York Times, was initiated by Tomlinson to review the "Now With Bill Moyers" public televi­sion show for political content. They also asked for an inquiry into CPB's decision to hire two ombudsmen to review public programming. 
"Tomlinson's resignation should be used to bring people together, not divide them as he and the administration have done," Obey said. 
Dingell called the resignation "long overdue." 
"We will need to determine how to stop this kind of misbe­havior in the future," Dingell added. "We hope today's action is the first step by the board to operate in a more professional, nonpartisan manner." 
Sen. Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., said he expected to see the inspector general report shortly. He said a conservative political consultant that Tomlinson, a Republican, hired to conduct an analysis of political bias in pro­gramming had no professional standing as a media analyst. He said there were complaints that Tomlinson had acted without board approval and outside CPB bylaws. 
The Times reported that the consultant kept track of "anti­Bush," "anti-business" and "anti-Tom DeLay" guests on Moyers' show. Moyers, who served in the Johnson adminis­tration, has left the show. 
Tomlinson has said public broadcasting shows were too liberal and didn't give equal treatment to conservative views. 
"Tomlinson's legacy at the Corporation for Public Broadcasting is a negative one," Dorgan said. "He has done far more harm to the CPB than good." 

1213 Lincolnway West-Mishawaka Corner of Logan & Lincolnway 
(574) 256-1444 Francesco was Chef at Notre Dame for 2.5 years! Francesco & Family invite you to dine at their house. Enjoy authentic Italian cuisine from Calabria in an elegant yet casual atmosphere. Whether in front of the fireplace or on the 
veranda, we look forward to serving you and your guests. 
"'VJEJLCOM[]E JFOOTJBV\JLJL JFJRJJEND§ 
AND JFAMlJ[JLY!! 
Tuesday-Thursday s:oo-9:oo  Full bar available  
Friday & Saturday  Free bruschetta with ad  
s:oo-1o:oo  Frattcesco's tteeds servers  

Juanes leads Latin avvard vvinners 
Colombian rocker takes home three trophies at revamped Grammys 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -Colombian rocker J u anes won three awards and Spanish crooner Alejandro Sanz won two at Thursday's revamped Latin Grammys, which were broad­cast in Spanish for the first time and showcased an expanding range of genres. 
Juanes, a Latin Grammys favorite who dominated the awards in 2003 with five tro­phies and had nine coming into Thursday's show, collected hon­ors for best rock song, "Nada Valgo Sin Tu Amor," best music video for "Volverte a Ver," and best rock solo vocal for "Mi Sangre." 
"This is a dream night," Juanes said after collecting the rock solo vocal trophy. "To all the fans in Colombia, I love you and thank you very much." 
Sanz, who won four trophies at last year's award show, picked up the song of the year and the record of the year awards for "Tu No Tienes Alma." 
"It is embarrassing to collect this prize because I think that all those who were nominated deserve it more than I do, and many who weren't nominated," Sanz said while accepting the record of the year honor. "I ded­icate it to all of them who inspired me to do music. Thank you so much." 
Brazilian singer-keyboardist Ivan Lins won album of the year for "Cantando Historias." 
Spanish alternative singer­songwriter Bebe had a leading five nominations but took home only one Grammy, for best new artist. 
"I didn't expect it. That's the truth," said the native of Valencia, Spain, who was also nominated for album of the year for "Pafuera Telaranas" and record of the year and song of the year for "Malo." 
Italian vocalist Laura Pausini pulled off one of the night's biggest upsets when she beat out Bebe for the best female pop vocal Grammy. 
"Thank you so much. I haven't prepared anything because I thought that Bebe was going to win," she said, her voice breaking. "I don't have the list of who to thank because it's at home." 
The award was Pausini's first Latin Grammy. 
Dominican merengue and salsa music master Juan Luis Guerra collected two trophies: best Christian album and best tropical song for "Las Avispas." 
"I want to dedicate my award to wife and children . . . and all the fans of (his band) 440 and of my beloved Dominican Hepublic," Guerra said. 

Puerto Rican singer Obie Bermudez, who earned the Latin Grammy for best male pop artist, let loose with a yell and held his award up in jubilation 
"Nothing is impossible. I am happy, really happy. I swear I was not prepared for this," he said, dedicating his award to his father. "I want to give my thanks to God." 
The Tex-Mex group Intocables won the award for best Norteno album for "Diez." 
Mexican heartthrob Alejandro Fernandez kicked off the live Univision Network telecast from the Shrine Auditorium perform­ing "Canta Corazon" with a vir­tual waterfall as a backdrop. The singer was nominated for best male pop vocal album for "A Corazon Abierto." 
The broadcast showcased an expanding range of genres, including pop, salsa, reggaeton and rock. 
NOT~E DAME'S DEDA~TMENT Of FilM, TElEVISION, AND THEAT~E D~ESENTS 
Tuesddy, 
November 8 
through 
Sunddy, 
November 20 
Philbin Studio 
Thedtre 
$8 oil students For tickets, ct~ll the DDAC Ticket Office 
Of 631-2800 
or visit http:// pertormlngorts.nd.edu 



... 

.

0 BY N 0 E l c 0 W A 


AP 
Colombian singer-songwriter Juanes took home three trophies at Thursday's Latin Grammy awards held in Los Angeles. 

..
·R·.··.·.····· ·
.. .. 
G 
D 

~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREOAME 

Friday, November 4, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Study: Religious use of peyote not harmful 
Drug poses no danger to American Indians 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -A study of the niTocts of peyote on American Indians found no 1widence that thn hallucinogenic cactus caus1HI brain damage or psy­ehologieal problems among peopln who used it frequently in rnligious ceremonies. 
In fact, researchers from llarvard-afJ'iliated McLean llospital found that members of thn Native American Church perfornwd better on some psy­chological tests than other Navajos who did not regularly usn pt!yote. 
I\ I994 federal law allows roughly 300,000 members of tho Native Ameriean Church to usn pnyote as a religious s1u:rarnnnt. Tho livo-yoar study Sl't out to lind sdentilic proof for tho Navajos' belinf that the substance, whieh eontains the halludnognn mnsealine, is not hazardous to their health even wlwn used l'reqtwntly. 
The study was conducted among Navajos in the Southwest by Md.nan psychia­trist John llalpern. It eom­parl•d test rnsults for (>0 rhureh nwmbers who havo used peyote at least I00 times against those for 79 Navajos who do not regularly usn pey­otn and :H> trilw nwmhers with a history of alrohol abus1~ but minimal JH'yoto ust~. 
Thosl' who had abusl'd aleo­hol fan•d worsl' on tlw tests t ha n tlw ch u r c h rn e m bn r s , according to tlw study. 
<:hurch mnrnbnrs bnlinve pnyoto oiTt~rs thnm spiritual and physkal hnaling, hut thn 
researchers could not say with any certainty that peyote's pharmacological effects were responsible for their test results. 
"It's hard to know how much of it is the sense of community they get [from the religion] and how much of it is the actual experience of using the medication itself," said Harrison Pope, the study's senior author and director of the biological psychology labo­ratory at the hospital near Boston. 
The researchers argue that their findings should offer "reassurance" to the 10,000 Native Ameriean Church mem­bers serving in the military who were barred from using peyote bof'ore new guidelines were adoptnd in 1997. 
"We lind no evidence that a history of peyote use would com promise the psychological or cognitive abilities of these· individuals," they wrote in their paper published in the Nov. 4 issue of Biological Psychiatry. 
The researchers note that tlwir study draws a elear dis­tinetion between illicit and religious use of peyotn. They did not rule out the possibility that other hallucinogens, such as LSD, may be harmful. 
"In comparison to LSD, mescalinn is describnd as more sensual and perceptual and lf~ss altering of thought and S<'nso of sell'," they wrote, adding that peyote does not stwm to produce "flashbacks" tlw same way that LSD appar­ently does. 
Associated Press horse as somebody sings: 
"Thflrc's one thing for cer­
NEW YOHK -Politicians tain, I'll love you until I din." looking for a fresh way to get Then Bush plants a kiss on voters' atttmtion have seized Bloomberg's cheek.. on something that is more Phil Angnlides, a Democrat "South Park" than "Wnst running for governor of Wing": cartoons. California in 2006. has run a 
Around the country, candi­cartoon that beseeches voters dates are running cheeky to take back tlwir state from animated political ads, most­Arnold Sehwarznnegger's ly on the Internet. but also on right-wing friends. Tho skit television. takes place on 
Dmnoerat Fernando Ferrer, "Schwarzenegger Street" and a candidate for mayor of Now features a "Cheney Monster" York, paired Mayor Michael who gobbles the Constitution. Bloomberg and Prnsident Columnist Arianna Bush in a spoof that hit thn Buffington deployed "Tho airwaves this week. The two Hybrid Versus the llurnmor" Hepublicans arc seen riding a during California's 2003 
recall f1leetion to poke fun at 
r-----------------------------~~-----Schwarzenegger's penchant for driving gas-guzzling llummers. The cartoon

CHARLES PHI 
shows the former action 
star's Hummer wrecking the 
environment as Bush fills it 
with gas.
l'R.E-:51DENT, 0 

Animated political spots are not new. Dwight Eisenhower and Adlai Stevenson both deployed primitive black-and-white cartoons during their 1952 


FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2005 
presidential race. But thn recent cartoons are far morn sophisticatnd, and wickedly satirical as wnll. 
"They are magnnts for attention, and that's the name of the game in political advertising," said Martin Kaplan, an assoeiate dean of the Annenbnrg St:hool for 
Communication  at  the  
University  of  Southern  
California.  

The burst of animated ads may be traceable to tlw wild­ly and unexpectedly popular "This Land" dip that was unleashed ovnr tho Internet by JibJab Mndia during tlw 2004 prnsidnntial campaign. The musical satire skownrPd both Prnsidnnt Bush and John Kerry. 
In it, ovnrsiznd photos of the candidates' lwads were eomputer-pasttHI onto ani­mated bodies, and the mnn traded singing-and-dancing insults to the tune of "This Land Is Your Land," with Bush calling Kerry "a liberal wiener" and Kerry branding the prcsidnnt a "right-wing nut job." 


.-.·.:·· 
;: : 
JORDAN AUDITORIUM 
WIN ALEGEND EAGLE ONE 
Holy Cross & St. Stanislaus Parish 
will be raftling this beautiful red, 
Harley Davidson Powerd 
Legend Eagle One

PleasejoLV\, 1.{.$ for lilll\, L.V\,forlt\1\.liltl.ve presell\,tliiHOV\, btJ lif tecJtll\,ologtl lilll\,cl Wlilll street expert Only 3000tickets will be sold. 

$20 per ticket 

Innovation --Challenges and Opportunities 
All proceeds go to benefit the Renaissance Campaign to build
Industry Trends --Current and Future 
Aggressive Acquisition and Consolidation along-awaited Gym and Social Center and to create astate 
.........~---• --Impact on the Software Industry and on Oracle of the art library, media center and art department for the 
Personal Views on Leadership 
students of Holy Cross School. Send your ticket information to: 
Mendoza College of Business 

University of Notre Dame Holy Cross, 920 N. Wilber St., South Bend, IN 46628 For more information call 574.233.2179 Be sure to include your name, address and phone number. Drawing will be May 26, 2006 or before if all tickets are sold earlier. Indiana License# I 06569 

Senate clears digital TV deadline 
Congress members move technological transition one step closer 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON The Senate moved the digital TV transition one step closer to reality on Thursday, setting a firm date for television broad­casters to switch to all-digital transmissions. 
Lawmakers gave broadcast­ers until April 7, 2009, to end their traditional analog trans­missions. The so-called "hard date" was included in a sweeping budget bill. 
The bill also would provide $3 billion to help millions of Americans buy digital-to-ana­log converter boxes for their older television sets -so those consumers will contin­ue to receive a signal once the switch is made perma­nent. 
Legislation approved last month by the llouse Energy and Commerce Committee calls for a Dec. 31, 2008, deadline and provides nearly $1 billion for the converter boxes. 
Differences between the measures would need to be worked out in a House-Senate conference. 
In the Senate, an amend­ment by Hepublican John Ensign of Nevada that would have reduced the converter box subsidy to $1 billion was withdrawn. Spokesman Jack Finn said Ensign was con­cerned that the $2 billion in savings would be spent on other projects instead of deficit reduction. 
Digital television promises sharper pictures and better sound than analog TV. 
National Association of Broadcasters president Eddie Fritts said tho 2009 deadline "represents a victory for mil­lions of Americans who could have been left stranded by a premature end to analog tele­vision service." 
The move to all-digital will free valuable radio spectrum, some of which will be allocat­ed to improve radio commu­nications among fire and police departments and other first responders. 
Sen. John McCain, H-Ariz., unsuccessfully offered an amendment to move up the hard date by one year, saying "first responders' ability to communicate during times of tragedy can be literally a matter of life and death." 

Anitnation etnployed in politics 
page 10 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 4, 2005 
CHINA
UNITED NATIONS 

Young girl -who saved 
Officials ready for flu outbreak 
Prevention measures extendedfor two-mile radius from infectedfarm

100 lives Illeets Clinton 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS -Tilly Smith, just 10 years old at the time, put her geography les­sons to good use: By quickly recognizing the warning signs of a tsunami, the English schoolgirl saved about 100 people from near-certain death at a staff. the girl dashed back toward the beach filled with about 100 people. She told the Japanese-born hotel chef of the danger, "and he knew the word tsunami because it's Japanese. But he never saw one." 

The chef and a nearby hotel 
security agent 
both spread the 
Associated Press 

TENGJIAYING -Chickens were dropping dead by the dozens at Qin Zhijun's farm one morning, most while feeding in their squat, brick coops. 
"They died instantly," said Qin, a breeder in China's northern Inner Mongolia region, which reported the 
first of the country's three Tilly, now 11, beach was swift­
Thai resort. "Tilly's story is a warning and the 
bird flu epidemics in poultry
simple reminder 
last month. "I've never seen
visited the United ly evacuated ­
that education can 
a disease like this."

Nations Thursday minutes before and met former make a difference the devastating 
Within 15 hours of the Oct. 14 outbreak, he says, up to
president Bill waves struck.
betweeen life and 
2,000 of his birds had died of
Clinton, the U.N. The beach near
death." 
the H5N1 virus and 7,000
envoy for the the Marriott others were destroyed by
tsunami recovery. Hotel was one of "My mum didn't Bill Clinton the few in Phuket health officials. The prevention measures
realize what was where no one
former President 
happening on the beach because she wasn't taught about tsunamis when she was younger," said Tilly, who was in New York with her mother, father and sister. The Smith family all escaped the lethal waves after Tilly's early warn­ing during their vacation on the island of Phuket. 
Two weeks before the Dec. 26, 2004, disaster that took at least 178,000 lives, Tilly had studied tsunamis in her geog­raphy class in Oxshott, a com­munity of about 5,000 just south of London. The children 
was killed or 
seriously hurt. 

On Thursday, she was wel­comed at U.N. headquarters by officials of the International Strategy for Disaster Reduction, a Geneva-based 
U.N. agency that is trying to educate people worldwide on proper disaster response. 
During last month's earth­quake in India and Pakistan, scores of schools were destroyed and many children died under the rubble. 
"Tilly's story is a simple 
reminder that education can make a difference between life and 
poultry -one in Anhui
were shown a death," Clinton
"All children 
province in the east, the
video from an said before his
should be taught 
other in central Hunan
earlier tsunami. meeting with Tilly was armed disaster reduction Tilly. "All children province -have sparked fears that human infections
with that knowl­so they know what should be taught 
may be on the horizon.
edge when the disaster reduction
to do when natural 
China on Thursday report-
Smith family so they know decided to go for hazards strike. " what to do when 
a morning walk natural hazards on the idyllic strike."

Bill Clinton 
beach near the Later Thursday,

former President 
JW Marriott 
Phuket Resort and Spa. 
Suddenly, "I saw this bub­bling on the water, right on the edge, and foam sizzling just like in a frying pan," she remembered. "The water was coming in, but it wasn't going out again. It was coming in, and then in, and then in, towards the hotel." 
She recognized it as an indi­cation that earthquake-driven waves were only minutes away. 
·Tilly turned to her mother, Penny, "and I said, 'Mum, I know there's something wrong, I know it's going to happen _ the tsunami."' 
When her mother replied that it was just a day at the beach, "Tilly went hysterical," recalls her father, Colin, who decided to return to the hotel with her 8-year-old sister, Holly. 
While Colin Smith relayed Tilly's warning to the hotel 
ed another outbreak, saying 8,940 chickens in Badaohao village in the country's northeast died, prompting authorities to destroy 369,900 other birds. The Agriculture Ministry blamed the Oct. 26 outbreak on the H5 strain, which is separate from the H5N1 strain that poses a threat to humans. 
Reporters dressed in pro­tective suits and masks were taken on a whirlwind tour Thursday of Tengjiaying, a village of about 1,000 people just outside Hohhot, the regional capital. Cows and sheep roamed the dusty streets. 
Buses carrying the group were stopped at a check­point, where the wheels of the vehicles were sprayed with disinfectant by workers wearing white and blue pro­tective suits. A thick registra­tion book sat on a table filled with information on drivers and their cargo. 
"From the officials at the top to ordinary citizens, everyone understands this is a problem and everyone is paying great attention to it," said Xu Yanhui, the official in charge of anti-bird flu meas­ures in Inner Mongolia. "Everyone is filled with con­fidence that we will be able to overcome this." 
Qin, 44, said that on the day of the outbreak, he awoke at 6 a.m. to find a few dead birds. He said many more dropped dead while eating an hour later. 
Qin said authorities, who arrived 30 minutes after he 
reported the deaths, detained him and his wife at the farm while they tested the chickens. He said that when the results came back positive for bird flu, they began destroying other chickens. 
On Thursday, Qin's coops stood empty, their windows sealed with plastic. The ground is covered in chalky white powdered disinfectant; empty bottles for liquid disin­fectant were piled up nearby. 
"At the time, it was hard to bear," said Qin, whose face was browned by the sun and deeply lined. "I did not feel like eating, I did not feel like sleeping." 
He said authorities filled a pond where they suspect migrating birds might have passed the virus to his flock. 
Of the 62 people who have died of bird flu in Asia since 2003, most have been linked to close contact with infected birds, but experts fear the H5N1 virus devastating flocks in Asia and pockets of eastern Europe could mutate into a form easily spread from person to person, and have called for increased prevention worldwide. 
In China, where animals and people often live in close proximity, authorities have destroyed tens of thousands of birds in an effort to con­tain the virus and banned poultry imports from 14 countries with bird flu out­breaks. The leadership has also called for tighter moni­toring and more aggressive vaccine research. 

extended for a two-mile radius from Qin's farm. with more than 93,000 birds slaughtered and tens of thou­sands more vaccinated. 
Now authorities are eager to assure the public and the world that the government is taking its anti-bird flu work very seriously -and to show it can be open following sharp criticism that it was unwilling to share informa­tion during an outbreak of severe acute respiratory syn­drome in China in late 2002. 
No human cases of bird flu have been reported in China, but two recent outbreaks in 
the former presi­

dent sat next to Tilly on a couch at a midtown Manhattan hotel and asked 






JMs on campus
her to tell him about what happened. In countries such as Japan, Cuba, Iran and Bangladesh, 
NO surchargelpeople have learned to live with frequent natural hazards such as floods and earth­quakes, said Salvano Briceno, who directs the Geneva-based 
U.N. disaster strategy agency. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 2s,ooo-Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 




OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 
e ATMs near
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
ht where you
232-8444 


em, right when d them. 
'3 




NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 

574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 


Friday, November 4, 2005 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 

Prince Charles visits Georgetow-n 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Prince Charlns reenived the warmest public wnkome so far of his U.S. tour Thursday, mingling with morn than 1,000 dwering stu­denL-; at (;norgotown University­and evnn signing a soflball. 
Arriving for a seminar on faith and social responsibility, Charles sptmt 15 minutes talking to stu­denL-; and stall' who craned over barrit:adns to cateh a glimpse of him -oiToring handshakes to many and a rare auto1,rraph on a profTnrml softball to one young man. 
Many in thn crowd yelled "Prince Charles!" as he approached -one woman adding, "Whom's William?" 
The 56-year-old heir to the throne may lack the college appeal of his 23-year-old son William, but the enthusiastic rneoption was a welcome boost for a royal tour that has met a muted response in a Washington preoccupied with legal fights involving top White House and congressional figures, battles over a Supreme Court vacancy and the rising death toll in Iraq. 
After the pomp and ceremony of Wednesday's black-tie dinner hosted by President Bush at the White House, Charles and his wife Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall were on comfortable ground Thursday -visiting worthy proj­ects in whieh they have a person­al interest. 
Charles, who has called in the past for a greater understanding of Islam from the West, met rep­resentatives of Christian, Muslim and Jewish groups at Georgetown's Center for Muslim­Christian Understanding. 
Earlier, the prince accepted an award for his contribution to architeeture at the National Building Museum, donating the $30,000 prize money to hurricane recovery in Mississippi. 

Charles and Camilla were due to see hurricane damage first­hand on Friday, flying to New Orleans to meet residents and recovery workers. 
Later, Camilla wore a gold lace cocktail dress and a diamond necklace as she and Charles min­gled with 140 guests at a recep­tion hosted by the British ambas­sador, Sir David Manning, and his wife, Lady Catherine. 
The weeklong tour, designed to bolster trans-Atlantic ties and promote Charles' environmental­ist causes, also represents a com­ing-out for Camilla. The 58-year­old married the prince in April after a relationship that stretched back three decades -and was interrupted by their marriages to others. For many fans of the late Princess Diana, she remains the woman who broke up the fairy­tale royal romance, although both Charles and Diana acknowledged having affairs during a marriage that ended in divorce in 1996. 
Notre Dame 
Symphony 


Orchestra 
with special guests 

I 
inds 
Friday/ November 4/ '05 
9:00 pm (following the pep rally) 
Leighton Concert Hall/ DPAC 
Universi~ of Notre Dame 

AFischoff Arts-in..Education Residency Event 
AI 
rnfNOONA Underwritten by: Henkel's Lecture Series. Arts &Letters ·University of Notre Dame 

fEUNtV£RSITYOf 
IJAI:OUl 

Allen Whitehill Clowes Charitable Foundation, Inc. • 20051ndiana Achievement Award 
~NOTRE DAME
~lla{iWNIIIl 

Gene~s Program &the City of Elkhart • The Junior League of South Bend. Inc * NIPSCO
101 IN! All~ 

'--•WIIfl""~
""-"Ill nMC.,lrt South Bend Community School Corporation TITle IProgram Culkogc uf Arts and letters 
--.\lt~t­
........,...r....., 
......,........ 
Fischoff Naff Chamber Music Aswc.. 303 Brownson Hall, Notre Dame. IN 46556 Iph 574.631.0984 Iwww.fischoff.org Departmcmof Mu~c 
Radio City officials rebuff players' strike 
Orchestra returns to work after one day 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Disappointed musicians clutched their instruments outside lladio City Music Hall as thousands of ticketholders streamed past Thursday for the annual "Christmas Speetaeular," where recorded holiday music replaced the usual live orches­tra in a bitter labor disputn. 
The musicians pulled down their picket line and returned to work Thursday morning after a one-day strike. But they wound up stranded out­side Radio City as the first show of the season went on with taped tunes. 
"We are ready to play unconditionally and immedi­ately, but apparently we've been locked out," said David Lennon, president of Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians. "We took the picket signs down, and we did it for all the audience members and all of New York." 
The dispute did not affect the world-famous Hockettes dance troupe, one of the major attractions in the holiday fix­ture of the last seven decades. But the labor dispute raised questions about this year's show, particularly after stage­hands conducted a one-night walkout Wednes-day in sup­port of the musicians. 
Hadio City Entertainment, which produces the show, denied that the musicians were locked out. 
"We told the musicians in no uncertain terms that until there is an agreement, and there is no possibility of them walking out on future per­formances, they remain on strike," management said in a 

r------------------,
: VERA BRADLEY : 
1 20% off with ND/SMCStu.LD. 1 
I  I  
I  tiiJ~ ~l.t ~u  :  
1  Ea..'lt Bank. Emporium Re8taurant Bldg.  1  
121 S. Niles Ave., (574) 231-ll4&8  

L------------------~ 
·statnmnnt distributml outsidn 
the musir. hall. 
Nngotiations wnrn ongoing, 
said nHuwgenwnt spoknsman 
Barry Watkins. 
Thn lack of a livn orrhnst.ra 
did little to dampnn t.hn l~nl.hu­
siasm of many patrons lnaving 
tho first of two shows 
Thursday. 
"It was just as gwat without 
the orchestra," said Dorothy 
Weed of Norwalk, Conn. "It 
was fantastic.!" 
Wednesday's strike forc.nd 
cancnllation of a prnsnason 
performanen that night. 
stranding hundreds of disap­
pointed tieketholders as sever­
al dozen musieians picknted 
outside the Manhattan land­
mark. 
The show, featuring the cho­
rus-line kicks of the Hockettns 
dancers, is known around the 
world. Tickets run as high as 
$250. 
Mayor Michael Bloomberg 
called the dispute "very unfor­
tunate." 
"New York City is about live 
music, nobody suggests for a 
second that you would havn 
the same quality of perform­
ance if you just play a tape, 
and I would just urge all par­
ties to look not at just what's 
in their interest but what is in 
the eity's interest," he said. 
The orchestra's contract 
expired in May. The union 
accuses Cablcvision Systems 
Corp., which operates Hadio 
City, of vastly underpaying 
musicians who put on several 
shows a day throughout the 
holiday season. 
In a statement, Hadio City 
said it had offered the musi­
cians increases in salary and 
benefits "over what is already 
the most lucrative contract in 
the industry." 
Because there was no picket 
line, all other unions at Hadio 
City went to work as usual. 
More than a dozen 
Broadway musicals went dark 
in March 2003 for four days 
after the musicians' union 
walked out, and theaters lost 
millions of dollars in revenue. 
Taped musie was used during 
a 2000 strike at the New York 
City Ballet. 

Thank you Pasquerilla West and Dillon Halls for the fun fi lied Halloween Activity Party! The Residents and Children Of University Village - 
Bankruptcy Liquidation Sale! 300 S. St. Louis Blvd., Ste. 200, South Bend. Nov. 8th-Nov. 11th, open 10am to 5:30pm daily Terms of sale CASH, credit cards. NO CHECKS All items sold "AS IS". Computers with 21" monitors, Fax machines, copiers, scanners, ID card maker, printers, Bifone phone system, Plantronic headsets and Misc. items .  

page 12 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 4, 2005 
Do-it-yourself AIDS at-ho111e test takes off 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Tom Donahue, 26 years old, learned two years ago he had the virus that causes AIDS. 
He told government medical advisers Thursday he had learned from a family doctor in State College, Pa., that he had tested positive for HIV. But he worries that too many people are afraid of going to clinics to get tested because others may find out. 
"I live in a community sur­rounded by students and stig­ma," he said. 
Donahue implored a federal panel to speed approval of the first HIV test that can be taken entirely at home, saying it will lead to more people learning sooner they have the disease. 
The test, called OraQuick Advance, is made by OraSure Technology, of Bethlehem, Pa. It is already widely available in health clinics and doctor's offices, and the FDA is consider­ing permitting it to be sold over the counter. 
"I am grateful that I know. I now know I have the tools I need to keep me healthy for years to come," said Donahue, who has founded an advocacy group called Who's Positive. 
The government panel, the Food and Drug Administration's Blood Products Advisory Committee, heard opinions on whether the test should be available over the counter. 
An FDA scientist said the pri­vacy and convenience of the test is a potential boon in that it could lead to more people seek­ing treatment earlier during the course of the illness, but the agency needs more information before it can be approved for sales directly to the public. 
"Anonymous testing potential­ly leads to more people knowing their HIV status," Elliot P. Cowan, a product review chief at the agency, told the commit­tee. 
Still, Cowan raised a number of concerns to the panel, a group of independent experts who can recommend to the FDA whether to approve the product. The panel was not asked to make such a recom­mendation Thursday but may in a future meeting, and the fmal decision ultimately rests with the FDA. 
The possible availability of the test, which relies on-a swab on the inside of the mouth, has raised concerns about the potential psychological impact on people who learn they have the virus with no doctors or counselors present. 
A person takes the OraQuick test by taking a mouth swab and then inserting the swab in a vial of fluid that comes with· the test. Twenty minutes later, the device indicates whether it detects the presence of HIV-1 or HIV-2 antibodies inside cells picked up by the swab. 
The test will not detect the virus if the person only recently acquired HIV because it takes several weeks for the antibodies to appear. 
Panelists raised a variety of questions about the test's pack­aging, instructions and ease of use. Would it include instruc­tions in French, given many immigrants from Africa speak French? (Company officials were open to the idea.) What­happens if the cat tips over the test before it has results? (Probably need another test.) Would the test be available in jurisdictions that mandate the reporting of HIV-positive cases? (Company officials said they would address the issue with those jurisdictions). 
The company has not decided at what price it would sell the kits to consumers, company officials said. The company sells the kits for between $12 and $17 to clinics and doctors, he said. 
One professor flown in by the company to speak to the panel said her studies suggested that many people would find it a burden pay more than $15 for such a test. 
The test is accurate more than 99 percent of the time, the company says. Still, a few peo­ple will get a positive result when they don't have HIV, and anyone who gets a positive result should be confirm it through an additional test by doctors or public health offi­cials, the company said. 

t'-r 

t«f for a stylish afternoon. Preview the latest in hridalwear. Enjoy hors d'oeuvres and cocktails. Hire your musician and florist. Or just gather ideas. Everythingyou need for yourbigday. 
November 20, 2005 
I2 p.m.-5p.m. Palais Royale Ballroom 105 W. Colfax, South Bend 

Tickets: $5 in advance $10 at the door To order call: 
574-235-9!90 

Blogger draw-s race into politics 
Rascism re-emerges after writer's depiction of Lt. Gov. of Maryland 
Associated Press 

ANNAPOLIS, Md. -A blog­ger's depiction of Lt. Gov. Michael Steele in minstrel makeup has brought to the sur­face issues of race -and fideli­ty to one's race -as the Republican seeks to become Maryland's first black senator. 
A black man in New York who runs a left-leaning news com­mentary site created the image and condemned Steele last week as "Simple Sambo." 
The posting highlighted the perception among some black voters that black Republicans are sell-outs who do not support their race on such issues as education and affirmative action. 
Steele said he understands some black voters view black Republicans with suspicion. 
"When people say you can't be black and be a Republican, I look at them and tell them, 'History proves you are wrong and your family probably proves you wrong,"' he said. "I just think that when we set up this monolithic test for individuals like myself to pass, it diminishes us." 
The Republican Senatorial Campaign Committee recruited Steele to run in 2006 for the Senate seat that will become open with the retirement of Democrat Paul Sarbanes. 
National GOP leaders have said they want to restore the party's historic bond with black voters and have showcased Steele, most prominently when he spoke at the 2004 presiden­tial convention. 
In remarks prepared for an address Thursday night in Baltimore, Republican National Committee chairman Ken Mehlman denounced the "Sambo" blog and said the GOP is working to become more inclusive. 
"The party that was founded to eliminate slavery will not be whole again until we welcome more African-Americans back home," Mehlman said. 
The blog followed other simi­lar incidents involving Steele. The head of the state Senate in 2001 called Steele, then head of the state GOP, an "Uncle Tom." During Steele's 2002 campaign for lieutenant governor, Oreos were distributed at a debate, and an editorial in The (Baltimore) Sun said he brought little to the ticket but his skin color. 
Steven Gilliard, the blogger wl)-o brought the topic to the forefront during the very first week of Steele's Senate cam­paign, said he does not believe that "if you are a Republican you are an Uncle Tom." 
But he said it is fair to criticize Steele because when it was learned that Republican Gov. Robert Ehrlich had held a fundraiser at an all-white coun­try club, Steele initially failed to speak out against the event. 
On Wednesday, Steele's staff responded by organizing a news conference with a black busi­ness leader and two black pas­tors -all Democrats -who were upset that racially charged terms had become part of the debate. 
"I don't quite understand why Michael Steele has been target­ed for this kind of hatred," said Garland Williamson, president of an organization of black busi­ness leaders. "Anybody can dis­agree with Michael Steele or anybody else they want to dis­agree with, but let's talk about the issues." 
Ron Walters, author of a book on conservative public policy in the black community, said black Republicans are often "per­ceived to be tools of the conser­vative white power structure." 
"Terms like Uncle Tom, sell­out, Stepin' Fetchit-those terms have not come from nowhere. They have a history," he said. "It is deserved, to the degree that they support anti­racial policies." 
Steele never ran for office before seeking the lieutenant governor's job and so has no voting record on issues such as affirmative action and educa­tion. However, as Ehrlich's sec­ond-in-command, he presided over a commission that recom­mended wider use of charter schools in Maryland. 
Steele also presided over a task force that changed rules to increase state spending on con­tracts with minority-owned businesses and to bar contrac­tors from dropping minority subcontractors after winning a bid. 
Blacks cast about 20 percent of the votes in statewide elec­tions in Maryland, and between 80 percent and 90 percent of that vote traditionally goes to Democrats. But some believe the old suspicion of Republicans that has led to automatic sup­port for Democrats among black voters is breaking down. 
Democratic state Delegate Anthony Brown, a black man from Prince George's County, a suburb of Washington, said that in Prince George's especially, "African-Americans are much more willing these days to eval­uate candidates based on what they stand for." 

JPW 2006 
FEBRUARY 17, 18, 19, 2006 
TICKET APPLICATIONS HAVE BEEN MAILED 
TO THE PARENTS OF CURRENT JUNIORS, AS WELL AS SENIORS WHO WERE ABROAD LAST SPRING. PLEASE CHECK WITH YOUR PARENTS TO MAKE SURE THEY HAVE RECEIVED A TICKET APPLICATION. 
TICKET APPLICATIONS CAN ALSO BE PRINTED FROM THE JPW WEBSITE: www.nd.edu/-jpw 
TICKET APPLICATIONS ARE DUE: 
MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2005 
Please contact the JPW Executive Committee with any questions you may have: 
Email: jpw@nd.edu Phone: 631-6028 

Junior Parents Weekend ... 300A LaFortune Student Center 
Friday, November 4, 2005 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 13 
Schools invest in aesthetic appeal 
Advocates ofschool design say style can foster academic advantaage 
Associated Press 
MANASSAS PAHK, Va. -As a high school prineipal. Bruce Mdlade is in charge of student Inarning, morale and safety. So hn's lwcorne adept at interior design. 
Bathroom mirrors? In his school, they aw in the hallways, where image-conscious teenagers can be supervised when they cluster to check their appearance. 
Classroom chairs? They are 26 inches wide, two inches roomier than normal, to keep students comfortable. 
And oh yes, the window shades. McDade and his team went with ones that block glare but still pmmit plenty of indirect light. 
In schools, style is taking on substance. From the width of the corridors to the depth of class­room sinks, the smallest detail is vinwed as a way to foster an acadnmic advantage. 
Advocates of fresh school dnsign, however, have work to do. Tlwy must show elected llmdtws and taxpayers that sueh attnntion to detail does not drive cosLo; out of reach. 
At Manassas Park High School, scores in algebra, geom­etry and writing have jumped since 1999, when students moved into a building featuring light, versatility and open spaces. McDade says he has no doubt the school's physical fea­tures have eontributed to those scores. 
"That's exactly the messagn,'' Md>ade said. "The design of this building does in fact have a mnasurable effect on student achinvement and student behav­ior." 
Studies support what educa­

''LOU HOLTZ I OOWINS'' 
Commemorative lithograph honoring Lou Holtz's remarkable coaching career here at Notre Dame. Special visit by artist Curt Sochocki who will sign and number lithographs Saturday November 5 from I I to I pm at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Includes Certificate ofAuthenticity. $150. A portion of the proceeds benefit a nursing scholarship in honor of Lou's mother,Anne Holtz. 
Also available at www.ndbookstore.com 
MIT tracks wireless users inside campus 
Associated Press see down to the room on 
campus how many people arn 
CAMBHIDGE, Mass. -In Jogged on," said Carlo Hatti, another time and place, col­director of the school's lege students wondering SENSEable City Laboratory, whether the campus cafe has which created the maps. "You any free seats, or their can even watch someone go favorite corner of the library from room to room if they is occupied, would have to have a handheld device that's risk hoofing it over there. connected." 
But for today's student at Hesearchers use log files the Massachusetts Institute of from the university's Internet Technology, that kind of infor­service provider to construct mation is all just a cliek away. the maps. The files indicate 
MIT's newly upgraded wire­the number of users connect­less network -extended this ed to each of MIT's more than month to cover the entire 2,800 access points. The map school -doesn't merely get that can pinpoint locations in you online in study halls, rooms is 3-D, so rnsearchers stairwells or can even distin­any other spot guish connectivi­on the 9.4 mil­ty in multistoried 
"You can even 
lion square foot buildings.
watch someone go
campus. "Laptops and 
It also pro­from room to room Wi-Fi are creat­vides informa­ifthey have a ing a revolution­tion on exactly ary change in
handheld device 
how many peo­the way people ple are logged that's connected." work," Hatti on at any given said. Tlw maps location at any aim to "visualize
Carlo Ratti 
given time. It these changes by
director
even reveals a monitoring the 
SENSEable City 
user's identity if traffic on the the individual Laboratory wireless nntwork tors consider to be common sense: Students do better in school when they hear well, see well and arc not packed into tight spaces. Noise, light, air quality, cold and heat have all bnen found to inlluence behav­ior. 

Yet there is no comprehensive research that ties smart design to achievement, said Judy Marks, associate director for the for them," said Ronald Bogle, president of the American Arehitectural Foundation and former president of the Oklahoma City Board of Education. "Let's create environ­ments that are uplifting, that are exciting, that are interesting." 
That sounds great to policy­makers, until the question turns to money. Leaders are under pressure to ease crowding and 
National Clearinghouse for Educational 'The design of this 
Facilities. building does in 
"We have exam­
fact have a

ples of kids whose schools were dark measureable effect and dank and 
on student 

crumbly, and when . d
h

ac ewement an opened, morale student behavior. " increased, the community came 
their new school 
Bruce McDade 

togother, teachers 
principal

stayed longer. Even the football ensure safety, which means design is often seen as a luxury. 
Bogle, whose foundation leads a national drive to improve school design, said suc­
cess stories need not be more expensive. The nation spends roughly $30 bil­lion a year on school construc­
team got better," Marks said. "There are those anecdotal sto­ries that ean give you a glimpse, but trying to look for solid research on that is a little tricki­er." 
Clearly, though, the conversa­tion about school construction is changing, as shown during a recent meeting of architects, mayors, city planners and school leaders from 38 states. 
School leaders are gradually asking new questions: +What do parents and teach­ers want? 
+How can the community help design the school, then have access to it once it's built'! 
+What kind of layout would students find so engaging it would make them eager to show up? 
"Let's not build warehouses 
tion, he said, and "good design can be accomplished at the same price as bad design." 
In St. Paul, Minn., architects designed the John A. Johnson Achievement Plus Elementary with ideas and money from com­munity groups. A YMCA is built right into the school. It also has medical services, adult educa­tion, family support and housing assistance. 
The point is to help children overcome any barrier that could affect their academic ability. 
"It's all about results," said Pat Quinn, executive director of operations at St. Paul Public Schools. "You run a great risk if you spend your time chasing fads. What you chase has to be a proven method of teaching, and that has to be incorporated into the design." 
has opted to make that data public. 
MIT research-ers did this by developing electronic maps that track across cam­pus, day and night, the devices people use to connect to the network, whether they're laptops, wireless PDAs or even Wi-Fi equipped cell phones. 
The maps were unveiled this week at the MIT Museum, where the they are projected onto large Plexiglas rectangles that hang from the ceiling. They arc also avail­able online to network users, the data time-stamped and saved for up to 12 hours. 
Hed splotches on one map show the highest concentra­tion of wireless users on cam­pus. On another map, yellow dots with names written above them identify individ­ual users, who pop up in dif­ferent places depending where they're Jogged in. 
and showing how people move around campus." 
Some of the results so far aren't terribly surprising for students at the vanguard of tech innovation. 
The maps show, for exam­ple, that the bulk of wireless users late at night and very early in the morning are logged on from their dorms. During the day, the higher concentration of users shifts to classrooms. 
But researchers also found that study labs that once bus­tled with students are now nearly empty as people, no longer tethered to a phone line or network cable, move to cafes and nearby lounges, where food and comfy chairs are morn inviting. 
Hesearchers say this data can be used to better umler­stand how wirnless teehnolo­gy is changing campus lil'n, and what that mnans for planning spaces and adminis­
services.


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 14 Friday, November 4, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Tb~ /nd.pmdtmt, Daily Newspapn-&rvi,.g Nom Dame anJ Saint Ma.ry's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabu!as AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SI•ORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 

SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commemaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The &ee expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q.mtions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Hdninger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The obliCrvct (USPS 599 2-4000) il pubUshed Monday tbwugh Friday cxa:pt dtJring exam and vaation periods. A sul»aiption m The Obst:Mt' b; $lOo-tQr one academi<: year: $55 for one semeS(er. + 
Th:e Ob$crvc:r iJ published <It: POSTMASTER 

024 .s.mth Dining Hall Sc:nd a~-wmt:l:iomto: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 ThcO!><emo 
Periodical pou:age paid. ar NQue Dame P.O.Box779 
md addi!iona! mailing offices. 024 Sooth Dining Hall 

Nor« Dame, IN 465~n9 
The Observer il a membtr ofW ~ted PI"CS5.lill reprodnalon rights ate reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Katie Perry Mike Gilloon Mary Kate Bobby Griffm 
Malone Ken Fowler Jenny Hames Fran Tolan Viewpoint Scene Sarah Falvey Chris McGrady Graphics Illustrator Kelly MacDonald Robin Fallon 
Use unity to strengthen security 
It's easy to feel safe at Notre Dame. 

The manicured quads, lulling study routine and organized dorm life all make us feel like we're in a bubble, far removed from the outside world. 
With this sense of seeurity in our community, we don't think twice before holding the door for someone who follows us into our dorm. And we don't think twice befon~ leaving our dorm room door unlocked while we're at elass. 
It's time to think again. 
A rash of thefts have swept campus this fall, 

O 
Jhe
occurring mostly in men's dorms. Laptops, bikes, 

jewelry, wallets and other valuables have been combined with individual precautions. Students stolen in what seems to be a growing trend. A must get in the habit of locking their doors. 
FJitorial
suspicious man has been seen entering dorms Students should carefully monitor access to main Dame bubble if a false sense of security allows thieves and potentially dangerous people to aecess the dormitories, the homes of about 6,000 students. 
Instead of lulling us into this trusting naivete, our sense of community should intensify our vigilance and protectiveness of our roommates' and neighbors' possessions. Just as we would quickly become concflrned if an unfamiliar person walked into our living room at home, we must utilize the existing channels of support in the residence halls if we wit­
ness strange behavior. 
Yet ultimately, this collective ah~rtness must be 
and walking into student rooms. 

And this isn't the first time that dorm security has been threatened. Last spring, sexually explicit phrases appeared on the walls, white boards and in the showers in Pasquerilla West. Gradually, residents came lilrward and reported seeing a strange. man around the dorm, but hours elapsed after a lurk­er was seen in the showRrs before NDSP was called to the scene. 
!lave we ber~ome so eomplacent that suspicious people can walk in and out of dorms without being reported immediately by residents who see them? 
It is time that students realize the downside of the Notre 
entrancns of dorms with swip1~ access -doors should not be propped open and tPmptation to hold the door open for unknown others must bP resisted. 
Perhaps there is a lesson to bn learned from the dorms that are currently reacting to a breakdown in security. In its char­acteristically idiosyneratic way, Zahm llall has quickly pulled together to protect its dorm against further thefts with signs, catchy phrases (you loot, we shoot) and nicknames (WD40). Vulgarity aside, the signs have raised much-needed awareness. 
In order to pop the bubble of false security, it's time for other dorms and students on eampus to take their own precautions to think twice and act as a vigilant community. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

I hope, I fear, I pray 
I hope that the abortion crosses that are currently on South Quad were put there for the right reasons. I hope that the peo.­ple who decided to put those crosses on South Quad did so because they feel that God is calling them to work to fix this societal injustice. 
I hope that those activists really do care about all those unborn children that the crosses represent. I hope that those who are responsible for the cross demonstration really do hope for the forgiveness of every woman that had and will have an abortion. I hope that those people who put those crosses on our public space performed that brave act so that more abortions in the future can be avoided. I hope that these crosses had nothing to do with politics. 
I hope that those same people who are against abortion are the same people who are for increased funding for sexual education in our public schools. I hope that those same people who put down those crosses are also promoting programs for pregnant mothers in our public schools. 

I hope that those same anti-abor­tion activists are for a broader social safety net in America, so that every child born in this country can have access to health care. I hope that these activists care just as much about an aborted child as they do about a child who has to live in a neighborhood where the best he can hope for is to become a gang member. 
I hope that these activists yearn for justice in every stage of life from conception to death. I hope that these activists care just as much about abortion as they do about capital punish­ment in America. I hope that these activists will have another demonstration for the 2,000 soldiers who have died in Iraq, not to mention the 110,000 deceased Iraqi civilians. I hope that these activists are champions for all of those who can't speak in America, not only those who are unborn. 
I fear that this abortion demonstration was a stunt. I fear that it was done at this time so that everyone who comes the football game on Saturday will see it. 
I fear that these same students who made these crosses are against sex education in Ameriean public schools. I fear that these activists are the same people who are against govern­ment assistance to poor Americans. I fear that these demon­strators do not equally care about capital punishment, war and a just economic system. 
I fear that these demonstrators were influenced by a corrupt American Catholic Church. I fear that the Catholic Church in America intentionally focuses on abortion more than other equally important issues. I fear that the Catholic Church does this for corrupt rea­sons. I fear that the reasoning behind why the Catholic Church told politicians who supported abortion in the 2004 elections that they could not partici­pate in the sacrament of Holy Communion was not genuine. I 
fear that the Church excluded these Catholics for monetary reasons. I fear that the Catholic Church, facing a decline in funds due to the chiid abuse scandal, came up with a plan to get dona­tions back to a normal level. I 
fear that the Church targeted their biggest donors, mostly con­servative, Republican-voting 
Catholics, by promoting their politi­cal party from the pulpit. I fear that if Democrats happened to 
be the biggest donors to the Church, then a politician who voted for capital punishment or the war in Iraq would not have been allowed to receive the sacrament of Holy Communion. 
I fear that we, Catholics, are all too blind to reality to real­ize what is happening right before our eyes. I fear that in America the only thing more corrupt than politics is religion. I fear that things will never change unless we take our Church back. I fear that we will allow these awful acts to continue. 
I pray for the courage of every Notre Dame student to fight to change this injustice. 
James Dubray freshman Dillon Hall Nov. 4 
OBSERVER POLL 
Will you change your behavior based on !he evictions at Turtle Creek and !he stricter disorderly house ordinance? 

JSubmit,a,,Letter 1 
a.Yes, Iwill have fewer parties. 
b.
Yes, I am nol moving off-campus. 

c. 
No.I wasn'l doing anyihing wrong in first place. d.No, ihe ordinance will nol change my 



1to the Etbtor at 1 
behavior. 
*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is ba'icd 

~ lwww.Rdsmcobserver.com II
on 324 responses. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'The important thing is not to stop questioning. Curiosity has its own reason for existing. " 
Albert Einstein Physicist 

-
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Friday, November 4, 2005 page 15 
A South Side journey 
Those of you who have ever been to the Linebaeker Lounge know that you ean walk into the bar with certain expnetations. As inevitable as the free drink eoupon you get at the door, you know your night will include tunes such as "Brown Eyed Girl," "Ignition Hmnix," "Only the Good Die Young" and, of eoursn, some .Journey. While hits sueh as "Anyway You Want It" and "Open Arms" ean bn real crowd-pleasers, noth­ing gets the Friday night crowd at the Backer on the dance lloor more than "Don't Stop Believing." 
Morn reeently, this song has seen a revival on the South Side of Chicago. It has bnnn among the top downloadnd songs on iTunns over the past couple wonks. It's impossible to wateh the local news in Chicago without seeing Steve Pnrry appnar on screen. lleck, nvnn my grandmas know the words to .Journey's famous ballad. This is all thanks to the suceess of' the Chicago White Sox. 
When I was growing up in th11 Chicago's Western Suburbs, it was never in vogue to be a Whitn Sox fan. Whiln most kids donned their blue and rml Cubs hats, I had to stick to the morn mundane eolors of black and white. Even after I grew up and my cir­cle of friends expanded, I still found myself in the minority. On warm sum­mer days, many of' my Cubs-fan friends likn to spend several hours in Wrigleyville bars, stagger into the Cubs gamn for a few innings, then stagger back to the bars, talking about how much they "Love their Cubbies." As a Sox fan, I also enjoy spending a sum­mer night at the old ballgame. 

Molly Acker 

Nobody Likes a Dumb Blonde 
However, when I go to Comiskey Park (for true Sox fans, the name-change to 
U.S. Cellular Field never happened), I go eheer on my team. When the game is over, I either head to my car or hop on the train to get back uptown, because going to a Sox game is about baseball; not people watching at over­crowded bars. 
Part of the reason that there has been nothing trendy about being a White Sox fan is due to the fact that the Sox have gone relatively unnoticed in the base­ball world. The Cubs attraet fans with an archaic stadium that doubles as the world's largest outdoor beer. They have cute little curses involving goats to explain their chronic losing. 
The Cubs have enjoyed a reputation as baseball's "loveable losers," whereas the Sox were its "forgotten losers." They were never good enough to win, yet never bad enough for people to realize that they hadn't won. They never had the high payrolls that are commonplaee in Los Angeles. Their roster never ineluded the names of leg­ends like those who played in the Bronx and they never had a nationwide following like the team in Boston. Simply put, the Pale Hose have always been a blue-collar team -the second team in the Second City. 
Nevertheless, week after week, year after year, arguably baseball's most · loyal fans cheer on the White Sox. Though small in number, we supported our team despite the fact that our last World Series title was not even broad­cast on the radio -radio broadcasts hadn't been invented yet. Even our last go at the Series was back in 1957 and so you can imagine the astonishment Sox fans when the Pale Hose jumped out to their best start in franchise his­tory this spring. 
We all watched the season with cau­tious optimism. The Sox started strong and had the best record in baseball by Memorial Day. Even though the team seemed to be running on all cylinders, 
we held our breath because, "C'mon, 
it's the Sox! When do we ever win?" 
But then again, could this be our year? 
The summer passed us by, and the Sox clinched the division title in late September. Much to our surprise, they got on a roll and began winning playoff games in bunches. Can they really do it? Could our Sox get to the World Series? Well, it happened. On Sunday, Oct. 16, 2005, the Chicago White Sox beat the Angels in 5 games to advance to their first World Series in 46 years. 
It was at this time a story came out about one of the players, Joe Crede. In early August, Crede and some team­mates found themselves in a New York piano bar celebrating a win over the Yankees. Crede, apparently a fan of '80s music, demanded that the pianist, "Play some l"'**ing Journey!" Well, once word of this spread, Sox fans, young and old alike, decided to play some Journey too. We adopted "Don't Stop Believing" as our post-season mantra. 
Last Wednesday the Sox found them­selves up three games to none in the World Series. Hoping that they would sweep the series, I took a gamble and "journeyed" to the South Side to cheer on the Pale Hose with some true fans. We won the game 1-0, swept the Astros, and celebrated our first World Championship in 88 years. It was like nothing I had ever experienced. 
As "Let's Go Go-Go White Sox" (the Sox fight song) and "Don't Stop Believing" played on repeat until the wee hours of the night, I witnessed complete strangers hug each other and grown men ery. There wasn't a person there who was not thinking of a deceased parent or grandparent who had waited many years, but never got to experience this sort of moment. It was a magical night; after all those years of putting our faith behind the Sox and believing they could do it ­they did. 
And so we danced and sang -I know you all know the lyrics. "Working hard to get my fill Everybody wants a thrill Paying anything to roll the dice Just one more time Some will win, some will lose Some were born to sing the blues Oh the movie never ends It goes on and on and on and on Don't stop believing llold on to that feeling" 
And so for "We few, we happy few, we band of brothers," who stood by the Sox for so many years with nothing in return, these words really resonated. Sticking by them through the wins and the losses finally paid off, bncause we never stopped believing. 
For those of you who are not baseball fans, or even those who arc Astros fans, you may not see what this has to do with you (heck, you may have stopped reading once you saw the words "White Sox"), but this is a good message for everyone to take note of. We are all at a time in our lives where the future is uneertain. At times we get diseouraged. Let's faee it, thern's a lot of pressure on us-will I lind the per­feet job? Will I get that internship? Can I get into my top medical school? 
Of eourse, I don't have the answers to these questions, but this I can tell you -don't stop believing. Believe in your­self. Believe in God and believe that he will help you. While all of us Sox fans are still "holding on to that feeling" of a victory, follow our example of' persist­enee and faith. Just think, if the Whitn Sox can win the World Series, then you can do anything you set your mind to. 
Molly Acker is a junior communica­tion and humanistic studies double major at Saint Mary's. She can be con­tacted at acke6758@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Ovserver. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Humor offends some and amuses others 
Insensitivity inexcusable 
In response to the letters from eomndians and other students defending the jokes made during a stand-up show, we would like to express our disappointment in approval for jokes that were clearly ol'fensivn. 
Will Seath 's joke about black stu­dents of Notre Dame being able to sit in the front of the dining hall dimin­islws the significance of Hosa Parks' refusal to give up her seat on a seg­regated bus. Jim Crow laws mandat­nd segn~gation on busing as a way of making blacks feel inferior to their white counterparts. Parks' actions were a means of demanding her rights as a human being and an equal citizen, something that should not be made light of by a tasteless jokn. Seath also made another joke he failed to mention in his letter whkh asks why sitting in the baek was a problem considering it is whern all of the eool people sit. Pnrhaps for blacks during the Jim Crow era, sitting in the back lost its "cool" appeal when they were forced to sit or stand uncomfortably in the baek of the bus when seats were available toward the front. 
Brian Berry, another comedian who performed, came to the defense of Seath in his Oct. 31 Letter to the Editor, "Missing the Point." Berry had a joke in which he mentioned the taboo word "nigger." He justified it as an attempt to show the growing numbness towards an offensive word. However, this word has not beeome numb by any means when some still refer to blacks as "niggas" in a demeaning way. 
The jokes made by Berry and Seath were a display of insensitivity and a lack of consideration for minority students at Notre Dame. Parks had not yet been laid to rest when these comedians attempted to make jokes about her efforts and used a word she had more than likely been called numerously. Too often minorities· on this campus are forced to remain silent about incidents involving race because they are often convinced by some of their peers as overreacting. But there is no justification for these comments and we will not be con­vinced otherwise. 
Lauren Prease Vice Presidem Notre Dame Chapter of the NAACP Nov. 3 

Humor: A paradoxical solution 
You know the details -tasteless jokes were made, feelings were hurt and angry letters were written. Sensitivity? Good taste? Katrina? 
The key issue is this: some people are offended by some jokes. Are these "insensitive" jokes permissible? Fortunately for you, I have a simple solution. 
I am offended by jokes that aren't offensive. 
Bland, tasteless drivel that sounds like it was read off a Popsiele stick makes my blood run cold with disgust and hot with anger. Humor that doesn't come at some­one's expense is cheap. If Mickey Mouse would be proud to say it, then I don't want to hear it. 
But now because of my tasteless taste in humor, there are no jokes left in the world that offend nobody -either they offend somebody, or they offend me. I am sorry, Ashley. Williams ("Understanding sensitivity and toler­ance," Oct. 31 ), but our goal of being perfectly inoffensive all the time is fan­tasy. 
The authors of "Jockular" never offend me. Monday's strip ("Slutty Nurses") is great. It is not the issue. The real issue is the menagerie of "sexy police offi­cers," "sexy referees" and "sexy .... 
ladies" that I saw last weekend (Unfortunately, not everyone followed the sensible advice in Pete Schroeder's Monday, Oct. :n column, "Don't be a llalloweeny"). 
I'm a white male, and I've heard all the jokes about my resulting (lack of) ability to dance. The jokes sting-with the truth. Yet, to ask somebody to please be more "sensitive" is to ask to censor the truth. This is the point that Kimberly Bak~r ("Hecog~izing the value of ~Jth­ers, Nov. 1) misses: women arcn t demeaned by "Jockular"-they aro demeaned, rather, by the culture that tells them to "sexify" their outfits. Censoring "Jockular" doesn't solve the problem; it merely deprives my of my daily chuckle. 
As Will Seath and Elizabeth Deak ("Ignoring the eon text," and "Comedy a useful tool," Oct. 31, Nov. 2) explain (way much more eloquently than I'd have stat­ed it), the sting of humor is often the sting of self-scrutiny and unabashed critieism. Good humor puts a stitch in my side ... because it really hurts. 
Jeff Smith junior Sorin College Nov. 2 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 16 
Friday, November 4, 2005 


Photo courtesy of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing 

Y 
oussou N'Dour is a globally revered, Grammy winning artist, known for his wide range of work and styles. The Senegalese artist, known as the "Voice of Africa," will perform here at Notre Dame's Leighton Concert Hall this Sunday, Nov. 6, at 7 p.m. His performance will include selections from his newest and 
Grammy-winning album "Egypt." 
Youssou N'Dour is one of the most ~elebrated African artists. Rolling Stone claims, "If any third world performer has a real shot at the sort of universal popu­
larity last enjoyed by Bob Marley, its Youssou, a singer with a voice so extraordinary that the history of Africa seems locked inside it." His large, international -base is the result of his incredibly eclectic music styles. He is strongly rooted in and inspired by his homeland's rich musical culture. His music contains Senegal's many 
rent sounds, from the traditional d modern music and Sufi Muslim hants. He is most unique, however, lbecatise he draws inspiration from the other sounds of the world, includ­different areas of Africa, Cuba, stern hip hop, jazz, soul and pop. result is one of the most global one can hear, described by the as, "the finest example of the meeting of African and Western music." His music is so appealing throughout 
world because of his unique voice deeply intelligent music. 
N'Dour inherited his musical skills m his mother and joined a popular group, Super E'toile De Dakar, at neteen. The group, led by N'Dour, mbalax, an upbeat style blending , Caribbean and pop rhythms. hey performed for the first time in 
Europe in 1984 and in North America the next year. 
N'Dour gained greater recognition in the West in the late 1980s, when he col­laborated with other famous musicians, such as Paul Simon, Peter Gabriel, Sting, Neneh Cherry, Wyclef Jean and many others. With the international release of "Set" and the famous single "Shaking the Tree," N'Dour was nomi­nated for a Grammy and signed with Columbia Record's 40 Acres and Mule Label. 
As well as being a prolific and unique artist, N'Dour is a powerful cultural icon and advocate of social issues. He is a Goodwill Ambassador to the UN, Ambassador to UNICEF and an .elected Ambassador to the International Bureau of Work. In 1985, Youssou organized a concert for the liberation of Nelson Mandela. Three years later, he performed at Mandela's birthday con­cert, when he was the President of South Africa. He also toured with the Amnesty International concerts throughout the '80s and continues to give concerts for children with AIDS. In 1988, N'Dour toured with Peter Gabriel, Bruce Springsteen, Sting and Tracy Chapman on the Amnesty International Human Rights Now! tour. In 2000, he was one of the prominent performers at the Jubilee 2000 concert, consecrated by Pope John Paul II for the relief of Third World debt. 

N'Dour will perform selections from "Egypt," his newest album, which earned him his first Grammy for the "Best Contemporary World Music Album," This album is a radical change of pace and style for the artist, synthe­sizing only northern and western African sounds. It is a highly spiritual album, focusing on the religion of Islam, specifically the Sufi practice that domi­nates Senegal. "Egypt" challenges Western musical preconceptions and presents a different very different worldview. N'Dour explained to the BBC and Al-Jazeera, " 'Egypt' is an album which praises the tolerance of my reli­gion, which has been badly misused by a certain ideology ... Our religion has nothing to do with the violence, with terrorism." This album is a stunning experience and an opportunity that N'Dour has given his Western audience to appreciate the beauty and diversity of the Muslim world. 
Contact Grace Myers at gmyersl@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE

Friday, November 4, 2005 page 17 
DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
Imani Winds join forces with Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra 

By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
!\ uniqtw and invigorating blend of /\frkan. l·:uropnan and Amerkan music will he fnaturnd on Friday, as a profes­sional wind quint1~t joins tho Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra onstage in the l.nighton Con1:nrt Hall. 
The lmani Winds. a young group of touring and meording musicians, will be l'naturnd in a eollaborative conenrt with the student musicians of the Notre Dame Symphony Ordwstra. The two groups will play tog1~tlwr, covering both elassieal pinees and lmani Winds-originals. 
The lmani Winds arn a quintet featuring Valerio Coleman (flute), Toyin Spellman (obon), Mariam Adam (clarinet), Jell' Scott (Fnmch horn) and Monica Ellis (bassoon). Known for th!iir dynamic playing and innovative programming, the quintet has alrnady garnered attention and exposure, induding performances on NPH and the fnstival circuit. They have toured exten­sively, both at the collegH-Ievel and at fes­tivals, and have already perl(>rmed at sev­nral notnworthy festivals this year, includ­ing the Florida International Festival, the Vancouver Chamber Music Festival and thn Orngon Bach Festival. 
Musically, the quintet is far more adven­turous than the average classical group. Seeking to tie together the seemingly dis­paratfl styles of European, African and Amnrican music traditions, their reper­toire is morn diverse than most. Featuring works by such distinctly different com­posers as Dvorak, Schubert and (;ershwin, the Imani Winds uniquely invigorating musicality links the edecti­dsm together. /\dditionally, their concerts often feature self-penned compositions like flutist Valerie Coleman's "Afro-Cuban Concert for Wind Quintet and Orchestra." 
The lmani Winds formed in 1997 and reiPased their first recording, "Umoja," in 2002 and have recently released their major-label debut. "The Classical Underground" (available from KOCH International Classics) features both origi­nal compositions and interpretations of traditional pieces. The energetic perform­ances and impressive musicality heard onstage is featured on both recordings, which can be obtained at the group's Web site, www.imaniwinds.com. 
In addition to their touring and record­ing, the quintet is extremely active in the community, as they have taken time to partieipatn in many residency and com­munity outreach programs. Through these programs, the lmani Winds seek to educate on both African Diaspora and Western classical traditions in a class~ room setting. 
The lmani Winds will be featured in conjunction with the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra. The Symphony Orchestra is an organization of student musicians and is under the direction of Daniel Stowe. Tomorrow will mark the first time the two groups have played together. 
Tickets are available from the DPAC Box Office and are $3 for students, $4 for seniors, $5 for stafli'faculty and $6 for the general public. The concert is on Friday at 9 p.m. in the Leighton Music Hall, located in the DPAC. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 





They're red, weird and unapolagetic: Zahm's tradition of outrageous dormwear leaves other halls in the dust. 
For next week: What are the best windows on campus? Send your suggestions to obsphoto@nd.edu. 
• 
-
Friday, November 4, 2005 

NBA 
Shaq sprains ankle in 105-102 loss to the Pacers 
Marion and Nash lead Pheonix over Los Angeles, despite 39-7-5 from Lakers' Bryant 
page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 

Associated Press  win."  
Gary Payton made a layup  
MIAMI  - Jermaine O'Neal  and  was  fouled  by  Jamaal  
was  celebrating.  Shaquille  Tinsley to get Miami within 93­ 
O'Neal was on crutches.  92. Tinsley was whistled for a  
A look at either O'Neal told  technical, and Wade made that  
the story Thursday night.  free throw to tie it -but Payton  
Indiana's O'Neal scored 27  missed the one that would have  
points, six in the final three  put Miami ahead.  
minutes to help the Pacers  That was a theme for the  
recover from wasting a 14-point  Heat: Miami was 27 -for-42 from  
second-half lead and beat the  the foul line, plus committed 17  
Miami Heat.  turnovers that Indiana turned  
"There were a lot of times we  into 20 points. The Heat could­ 
could have broken down," said  n't even blame the woes on  
Ron Artest, who  their center who  
added 22 points for the Pacers who have won 13 of  'There were a lot of times we could  has notorious free throw problems: Shaq was 6-for-8  
their last 14 regu­ have broken down.  from the line.  
lar-season meet­ings with the Heat. "But we didn't. We  But we didn't. We stayed together  "It'll get better as we go, but it's going to require a  
stayed together throughout this whole game."  throughout this whole game.,,  focus from a lot of people," Van Gundy said.  
Shaquille O'Neal  Stephen  
sprained his right  Ron Artest  Jackson's  two  
ankle midway through the fourth  Pacers guard  free throws with 1:37 left gave  
quarter;  X-rays  Indiana a 103-97  
were negative, but Heat coach  lead, but the Heat answered  
Stan Van Gundy expects his  with five points in the next 29  
center, who had 18 points and  Jermaine O'Neal celebrates after scoring a basket against Miami Thursday night. O'Neal led theseconds. Wade hit a 3-pointer  
six rebounds, "to miss some  Pacers to a 105-102 win, scoring 27 points.and Haslem put back Payton's  
time."  miss with 1:08 left to draw  
Dwyane Wade had 31 points  Miami to 103-102.  build a 34-23 lead.  points before the Suns scored  As they did in the second and  
and 10 assists for the Heat, but  Jermaine O'Neal made two  Miami scored seven straight  the game's final seven points.  third quarters, the Suns domi­ 
his 3-pointer to tie rattled out  free throws with 50 seconds  points to claw within 43-40 with  James Jones added 17 points  nated in the flrst few minutes of  
as the buzzer sounded.  left, and Miami didn't score  5:21 left in the half, but another  and Raja Bell and Kurt Thomas  the final period, outscoring the  
"It was  like the Wheaties  again.  end-of-period heave  - this  each scored 14 for the Suns.  Lakers 11-2 for a  106-89 lead  
commercial  with  [Michael]  "We showed a lot of compo­ time,  a  long  jumper  by  Bryant led the Lakers with 39  with 9:09 remaining.  
Jordan," Wade said of his final  sure  from  start  to  finish,"  Jermaine O'Neal with .8 sec­ points, seven rebounds and five  It  was  108-91  when  the  
shot.  "It went  around  and  Jermaine O'Neal said.  onds  remaining  - allowed  assists. Lamar Odom had 23  Lakers went on  a  12-2 run,  
played with me, and came out. I  Tinsley had 13 points, and  Indiana to take a 59-50 halftime  points, 16 rebounds and eight  making it 110-103. The Suns  
got a good look, got a good shot.  Austin Croshere and Jackson  lead.  assists,  and  Smush  Parker  extended the lead to nine before  
It went in and came out."  each  had  11  for  Indiana.  matched his career high with  Los Angeles went on a 7-1 run  
The Heat led for only 19 sec­ Haslem had 14 points, while  Suns 122, Lakers 112  21 points.  to draw within three points with  
onds - Udonis Haslem scored  Antoine Walker and Alonzo  The Phoenix Suns weren't  The game was the Lakers'  2:11 remaining.  
the game's first basket - but  Mourning each scored 12 for  about to blow a  big fourth­ home opener, and their first  But the Lakers wouldn't score  
still had chances to win their  Miami.  quarter lead a  second time,  regular-season game at Staples  again.  
home opener.  "We pulled for each other  although they came close.  Center since Phil Jackson was  Jones made a 3-pointer with  
Miami forced Indiana into 10  when things got tough," Tinsley  Shawn Marion had 30 points  rehired as coach. They opened  1:57 left, Bell added a jumper  
straight missed shots over a  said.  and 11 rebounds, Steve Nash  the season with a 99-97 over­ with 51 seconds to play, and  
nine-minute stretch of the sec­ Artest, who was booed when  had 17 assists and 12 points,  time  victory  in  Denver  on  Nash made two free throws  
ond half, allowing the Heat to  introduced before the game,  and the Suns held off the weary  Wednesday night.  with 30 seconds remaining to  
claw back from a 73-59 deficit.  had 10 points in the opening  Los  Angeles  Lakers  on  Jackson received a loud ova­ complete the scoring.  
And a 14-6 run in the fourth  quarter, silencing the sellout  Thursday night.  tion before the opening tip - The Lakers had won 12 of  
drew Miami into a 93-all tie.  crowd  with  a  3-pointer  - The Suns, who blew a  17­ not  long  after  saying  fans  their previous 13 home open­ 
"We knew they were going to  shooting it 8 feet behind the arc  point lead in the flnal quarter  attend NBA games to watch the  ers.  
,..  make runs," Indiana coach Rick Carlisle said. "We knew Wade  and over Haslem's outstretched arm -at the buzzer to push  before losing 111-108 to Dallas in double overtime Tuesday  players, not the coaches. "The excitement is on the  The Suns outscored Los Angeles 9-3 to start the third  
was going to play big down the  Indiana's lead to 29-23.  night to start the season, led by  floor," he said.  quarter for a 75-59 lead. With  
stretch. When that happens, we  That shot was part of an 11-0  17 with 8 1/2 minutes left in  The  Lakers ·won  only  34  Odom scoring seven points and  
had to keep our poise and com­ run by the Pacers, who used  this game.  games last season and missed  Parker adding flve, the Lakers  
posure. We did that and made  five quick second-quarter points  But  the  Kobe  Bryant-led  the playoffs for just the second  went on a  12-2 run to draw  
the plays we had to make to  from Sarunas Jasikevicius to  Lakers got as close  as three  time since 1976.  within six points.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
-
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Area Houses and Apartments for Beachwalk resort-Rent this 3 bed-rent. Log on to room 2.5 bath home in Beachwalk NOTICES FoR SALE MichianaRentals.com Call574-993-Resort Community located in TICKETS PERSONAL 
RENT (7368). Michigan City, IN. Great for football 1-bedroom apt 1-mile from ND in ND FANS For Saje: Cabin 25 mi. weekends! Close to shopping and WANTED: UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do quiet historic neighborhood, from ND. Wooded gated community House for rent. 3 BR, 1 BA, 2 Car riverboat gambling $700/weekend. not go it alone. If you or someone $575/month. Call 283-0325 with lake access. 3 BD 2BA loft, Gar. Clay Area. $700/mo. 574-210-Weekly rates also available. Email ND FOOTBALL TIX. you" love needs confidential support 
screened porch, FP, $295,000. Call 8308. caldanaro@ yahoo.com or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. 
619-606-8815. TOP$$PAID. Gude, esc, at 1-7819. For more WANTED KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES Walk to ND. Rooms for weekends. 251-1570. information, see our bi-weekly ad in FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07 Best rates. Kitchen. 272-0842. THE OBSERVER. Ten girls from the Class of 2005 FOR RENT SCHOOL YEAR. CLOSE TO CAM-FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. PUS. 4 BEDROOMS, UPTO 10 Rent house walk to ND 4 students 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB-Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 looking for a place YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart-BEDROOMS. CALL 315-5032 ASK 309-3105 SITE FOR$$: Days from $299! Includes Meals, ments available for 06-07 school FOR KRAMER. www. victorytickets.com MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, within walking distance to ND year. Call today 235-7234. GREAT HOUSES Acapulco, Jamaica From $499! 
KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS 1 GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT-Campus Reps Needed! to rent for the Tennessee weekend. Rooms in private home for rent dur-SINGLE FAMILY HOME 06/07 & 07/08 BALL TIX. PromoCode:31 www.springbreak-Call Andrea at 651-308-9285. ing ND football weekends or other AVAILABLE. travel.com 1-800-678-6386 
ND-SMC events. Call 243-0658. 140 N.SHORE BLVD. 3 BED-andersonNDrentals.com CHECK MY PRICES. Sr. seeks 3 housemates ROOMS, 1.5 BATHS. GREAT FOR 574-233-9947 273-3911. He showers in grain alcohol and WALK TO SCHOOL PROFESSORS,STAFF, OR GRAD feeds his baby shrimp scampi!!! ASAP 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES STUDENTS. 3-6 bdrm homes for 06/07. I NEED TN TIX. MMMRENTALS.COM CALL 315-5032, Club Fever. Appetite. Tonight. 287-4961. 532-1408 ASK FOR KRAMER. Also avail.now. 574-329-0308. 57 4-329-0308. 


OUND THE NATION 
friday, November 4, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 19 
Men's Soccer Poll 

tr.am record Pren 
1 Akron 16-0-1 1 2 New Mexico 12-1·1 2 3 Maryland 13-3·3 3 4 North Carolina 10-3-2 9 5 Indiana 10-1·6 5 6 Santa Clara 12-3-1 6 7 Connecticut 12-3·1 7 8 Duke 10-3-2 4 9 Old Dominion 13·2·2 8 10 California 11-3-1 11 11 Hartwick College 10-3-1 13 12 Southern Methodist 10-5-2 9 13 Virginia Tech 10-3-4 20 14 Duquesne 12-3·0 21 15 UCLA 10·3·2 17 16 St. John's 8·4-5 15 17 Creighton 9·4-3 16 18 Brown 10-3·1 18 19 NC State 10-5·1 NR 20 Virginia 11-3·2 12 21 Seton Hall 12-3-2 14 22 Cal State Northridge 11-2·3 25 23 UC Santa Barbara 10-3-3 22 24 Fairfield 10-3·3 24 25 Yale 8·2-4 NR 
Women's Soccer Poll  
team  record  
1  Penn State  19·0-0  
2  Portland  17-0·1  
3  North Carolina  17-1-0  
4  UCLA  15-1-2  
5  NOTRE DAME  17-2-2  
6  Florida State  16-2-0  
7  Santa Clara  14-3-2  
8  Virginia  13-4-1  
9  Calllornia  12·3-2  
10  Texas A&M  13-3-2  
11  Marquette  17·2·1  
12  Duke  12·4·1  
13  Boston College  11-4·2  
14  Brigham Young  15·1·3  
15  Connecticut  14·3·2  
16  Tennessee  12·5·1  
17  Cal State Fullerton  15·3·0  
18  Florida  13·4·1  
19  West Virginia  11-4-3  
20  Purdue  11-6-1  
21  Gonzaga  11·3·4  
22  Utah  13·5-1  
23  Colorado  10-6·3  
24  Clemson  9·7·2  
25  Dartmouth  11·3·1  
Men's Cross Country  
team  points  
1  Wisconsin  476  
2  Arkansas  468  
3  Colorado  442  
4  Stanford  432  
5  NOTRE DAME  414  
6  Brigham Young  402  
7  Georgetown  354  
8  UTEP  351  
9  Arizona  342  
10  Texas  338  

pretJ. 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 10 9 11 12 13 8 15 14 16 18 17 19 24 20 
NR 
NR 23 NR 
around the dial 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL Toledo at Ohio 8:00p.m., ESPN2 
PGA 

The Tour Championship presented by Coca-Cola 11:30 a.m., ESPN 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL 


Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -Few games have gotten ofT to a wilder start than Louisville-Pittsburgh on Thursday night _ two touchdowns in the lirst 25 seconds, both on kickofTs. But by game's end, the result was routine: anoth­er lopsided Louisville win. 
Michael Bush rushed for 115 yards and two touch­downs and Art Carmody tied a school record with four lield goals as No. 24 Louisville controlled the game in the second half en route to a 42-20 win over the Panthers. 

Louisville (6-2, 2-2 Big East) has won two straight after losing its first two league games and tem­porarily falling out of the top 25. The Cardinals, wearing black jerseys for the first time since the 11J84 season, bt~came bowl eligible with the win in front of a record crowd of 42,692 at Papa John's Cardinal Stadium. 
At the beginning it kind of felt like it was a little video game," Bush said. "After that, we got our­selves together and we made a couple of nice plays and we were able to get the win. Things just settled down in the second half." 
Pitt (4-5, 3-2) had a three-game winning streak snapped. The Panthers must win tlwir final two games, against Connecticut and No. 18 West Virginia, if they are to extend their streak of consecutive bowl appear­ances to six. 
Louisville, known for its high-scoring offense, wore the Panthers down with long, clock-chewing drives after halftime. The Cardinals scored the game's final 23 points and held a commanding edge in time of possession, 37:10 to 22:50 for I' i ttsb u r gh , an d rw v~~ r puntml. 
Bush's sneond scorn, a 3-yard run in tho third q uart.t~ r, was his 20th rushing touc~hdown of' tlw season, tying tho school record sot by Lmmy Lyles in 11J57 and matclwd by Erie Shelton last season. 
Bush, tho NCAA Division 1-A smring leader, lnf't. tho game after that with a sprained left foot. X-rays taken Thursday worn neg­ative, and Louisville spokesman Hocco Gasparro said Bush would undergo an MHI exam on Friday. 
IN BRIEF Injured hockey: player to 
receive workers' comp 
NORFOLK, Va.-A former minor­league hockey player who injured his shoulder in a fight he claimed his coach told him to start is entitled to workers' compensation, a Virginia appeals court ruled. 
The Virginia Court of Appeals upheld a Virginia Workers' Compensation Commission finding that "fighting is an integral part of the game of hockey" and that Ty A. Jones' injury arose in the course of his employment as an "enforcer." 
Jones' former team, the Norfolk Admirals, had argued that the fight amounted to willful misconduct and that he was not entitled to workers' compensation. 
L. Steven Emmert, a leading Virginia appellate attorney and hock­ey fan with no connection to the case, suggested the finding Tuesday was so obvious that it does not amount to much as a legal prece­dent. 
"This court finds that lighting is an integral part of hockey," Emmert said. "Thirty million Canadians could have told you that." Texas track finally set for sec­ond NASCAR race 

FORTH WORTH, Texas-It took nine years and a lawsuit to get it, but Texas Motor Speedway is finally ready to put on the second NASCAR Nextel Cup race it coveted for so long. 
The Dickies 500, the eighth race in the 10-race Chase for the champi­onship, is set for Sunday, and it looks like it will be worth the wait. 
More than 200,000 spectators are expected for what could be a pivotal race in the championship. And, to make it even more interesting, the track on the north edge of Fort Worth has put up a purse of more than $6.8 million, easily the biggest payoll' in the Chase. 
"NASCAR fans have waited nine long years for this race and there is a tremendous buzz going on about it," said track president Eddie Gossage. "The first camper showed up 17 days 
prior to the race." Injured Owens returns to practice 
PIIILADELPIIIA -Terrell Owens returned to practice Thursday, a day after he was listed as doubtful for Philadelphia's game at Washington on Sunday. 
Owens sprained the same ankle he had surgery on last year in last Sunday's loss to Denver. He was upgraded to questionable for the Eagles' matchup against the Hedskins. 
Meanwhile, quarterback Donovan McNabb missed his second straight practice with a rib injury, and was downgraded to questionable. 
"lie did a nice job," Eagles eoach Andy Heid said. "Wn limited his reps, but he did a niee job when he was in thorn." 

-
Hnid said Owens has bnen sponding most of his time in the trainer's room trying to gnt his ankle rnady."It's a matter of' getting the swelling out," Hnid said. "We'll see whore it's at tomorrow." 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 4, 2005 
PGA 
Bryant finally starting 
-, 
to believe he belongs 
Tour Championship successful so far for 42-year old grinder 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA -What was shap­ing up as a record round Thursday at East Lake suddenly was in peril as Bart Bryant planted his feet on the grassy mound of a bunker and chipped awkwardly to the hole. 
He would have been happy to get it within 10 feet. Imagine how he felt when his shot hit the 
"/saw him at
pin, rattled the win the Tour cup and settled a 8-under and Championship. few feet away. thought he was This time, it was­"My caddie and n't even good
playing a scramble
I looked at each enough for the 
other and said, with Ted Purdy. , lead. 'This is your "I had a funny day,"' Bryant said. feeling somebody
Charles Howell Ill 
The career would shoot low
golfer
grinder and late bloomer must be starting to think this is his year. 
Bryant was nearly f1awless Thursday in the Tour Championship, making an aus­picious debut by setting the course record with an 8-under 62 to take a two-shot lead over defending champion Retief Goosen. 
He was the only player in the 29-man field without a bogey on his card. He missed only two greens and two fairways. Caught between clubs on the par-5 15th, he went with a hybrid and knocked it within 6 feet for an eagle. 
Maybe now the 42-year-old Bryant will start believing he belongs with the best. 
''I'm working on it," said Bryant, who didn't win until the Texas Open last year and added a validation victory at the Memorial in early June. "People try to pound it in my head, 'You belong, you belong.' If I go out and shoot three more 62s, maybe I'll believe it." 
Kenny Perry bogeyed the last two holes for a 65, while Tiger Woods and Sergio Garcia were at 66. 
Woods was at 5 under through eight holes and was poised to shoot 29 on the front until failing to convert an easy up-and-down for birdie from the bunker. He struggled the rest of the way, but had few complaints. 
Bryant had nothing to com­plain about, either. He wound up breaking by one shot the East Lake record set by Vijay Singh in the first round of the 1998 Tour Championship. 
Goosen made eight birdies in a round of 64, the same score 
he shot on the last 
day a year ago to 
around here ... if 

the weather stayed the way it was," Goosen said. 
Not many would have guessed it would come from a player who had never seen East Lake until this week. 
"What a round of golf that is," Charles Howell III said after a 
67. "I saw him at 8-under and thought he was playing a scramble with Ted Purdy." 
Twelve out of the 29 players at East Lake broke par, a trib­ute to a gorgeous afternoon with hardly any wind, and a course that is playing firm and fast. 
Even so, Bryant's score got everyone's attention. 
"I wasn't expecting 8 under," Davis Love III said after a 68. "I· wasn't expecting 6 under." 
Bryant's expectations keep getting higher, although it was­n't always that way. There were times he would lie awake and wonder if his journey through the smaller tours and too many trips to Q-school were a sign that maybe he should find another job. 

Tourney goes Tway's way 
Golfer fires 64 to tie course record at SFB Classic in Mississippi 
Associated Press 

MADISON, Miss.-Bob Tway shot a tournament record-tying 8-under 64 Thursday for a one­stroke lead after the first round of the Southern Farm Bureau Classic. 
Tway, an eight-time PGA Tour winner whose last victory came at the 2003 Bell Canadian Open, matched the first-round scoring record shared by four players in Mississippi's only tour stop. Frank Lickliter was the last to open the event with a 64, in 2000. The SFB Classic's record for a low round is 61, set by Keith Clearwater in 1996. 
Jonathan Byrd opened with a 
65. Kevin Na, Tom Pernice Jr., Tom Byrum and Bo Van Pelt were two shots back after frrst­round 66s. 
Tway, who started on the back nine, had four straight birdies, starting at No. 3, to get to 9 under at Annandale Golf Club. After a third straight par, the 46-year-old Tway had a chance to break the opening­round record on his last hole, but left a 13-foot par putt 2 inches short. 
"I don't think I know the golf course all that well," Tway said. "It's the type of golf course where if you hit it well, the greens are going to stay recep­tive. They're going to stay soft and each round you can have a chance to make some birdies.... If you can make a few by get­ting close enough and and birdie the par-5s, you'll be OK." 

Carl Petterson, whose first PGA Tour victory came at last week's Chrysler Championship, played in Tway's group and said the veteran's finesse was impressive. 
"It all seemed very easy," Petterson said of Tway. 
Byrd had a chance to tie Tway on his final hole, but hit his approach at the par-4 ninth into the bunker left of the green. He chipped to 5 feet and made the par putt. 
Byrd, who finished in the top 10 here in 2002 and '04, made a 46-foot birdie putt at No. 14 and a 15-foot eagle putt at No. 
18. 
"I seem to always play well toward the end of the year. I don't know why that is," Byrd said. ''I've played well here in the past, I've got good memo­ries." 
Na predicted a wide gap between the leaders and the middle of the pack because of the chilly conditions facing play­ers with early tee times. The temperature at mid-morning Thursday was in the mid-50s. 
"It's only been one day, but I don't believe it's going to be as bunched up as it was last year, just because it's so cold in the morning," Na said. 


-
Friday, November 4, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

PHIL HUOELSON/The Observer 

At left, junior Russel Carter drives the baseline to the hoop. Carter scored 11 points In 21 minutes of action Thursday. Torln Francis, center, towers over Lewis defenders In the paint. At right, freshman Kyle McAiarney prepares to dish out a pass In his first college game. McAiarney had three assists against the Flyers. 
home crowd in his first game, 16-2 run with 17:39 remain­points on 4-for-9 shooting. game, most notably McAlarney drilling a 3-pointer minutes ing, that Notre Dame pulled Carter's two-handed dunk off and former-McDonald's All­after stepping on the court. He away from its Division II oppo­an outlet pass from Colin Falls American freshman Luke Zeller. continued from page 32 had seven points on 2-for-5 nent. with 6:58 remaining in the sec­Zeller looked impressive on shooting, three assists and The Irish began forcing ond half put the stamp on the both ends of the floor, show­beeame a reality. three steals, and showed an turnovers and creating fast Irish victory. casing his ability to rebound, 
Nine minutes into the game, ability to get to the basket to breaks during the stretch, "We felt that we had to get block shots and stroke the mid­Brey further departed from his create scoring opportunities. which was high-key stops, like range jumper. starting lineup of Chris Quinn, But with the variety of looks lighted by five three stops in a He had four points on 2-for-5 
Open 
"If[Chris] Quinn and
Colin Falls, Hussell Carter, Rob and the integration of new play­points from row ... to really shooting, grabbed four Kurz and Torin Francis, adding ers into the lineup, Notre Dame Carter, who start­[Colin] Falls shoot break it open," rebounds and blocked three a 6-foot-1 freshman point guard started off slowly Thursday ed his second Carter said. "We shots.
like that, I don't 
into the mix. night, shooting 9-for-36 (25 career game with just pulled togeth­"I thought Zeller got into a 
care who we play,
It was a familiar look for the pereent) in the first half. The the Irish. er and did the nice rhythm," Brey said. Irish. Kyle McAJarney was now Irish led Lewis by only one His play we are probably job." Notre Dame will play its linal occupying Chris point, 22-21, impressed Brey, Notre Dame's exhibition game Nov. 11
going to get beat." 
Thomas' spot in heading into who said the rough offensive against Quincy College at the last season's "We dug in pretty good halftime. junior's playing start forced it to Joyce Center. 
Mike Brey
small baekcourt at man-to-man." "If Quinn and time would rely on defense to alongside Quinn. Falls shoot like depend on his Irish coach keep the game Notes: "I wanted to that, I don't care defense and abili­from slipping + On the first Lewis offen­look at that Mike Brey who we play, we ty to integrate into the offense. away. The Irish played pre­sive possession after bneause I think Irish coach are probably "I thought he was disciplined dominately man-to-man, but McAlarney cheeked into the wn arll going to going to get defensively for the most part Brey refused to commit to a game, the freshman ran into a have to play that beat," Brey said. tonight," Brey said. "That's specific defensive identity for screen near the opposite foul way, maybe to spread people Quinn and Falls combined to what he's got to do first, and the remainder of the season. line and fell on the ground. He out," Brey said. "You're worried shoot 7 -for-24 from the floor for then be good with the ball and "We're going to play a lot of immediately got back up and about it defensively ... but the game and just 3-for-13 from easy to play with. I thought in zone," Brey said. "We may bumped the opposing player !Quinn and MeAlarneyl are so three-point range. the second half he was a little become mostly a zone team, I who had welcomed him to the good with the ball." It wasn't until the second smoother to play with." don't know. It was nice to see college level. McAlarney impressed the half, when the Irish went on a Carter finished with 11 when we had to dig in. We dug "I don't really let anybody 
FYI while you were out 



UNIVERSITY 
§Iff l J i lWR'¥!8 :::::t.~~~~~~~wt;:;:~::;:n':::?r<'if~~t%%:::'${' 
OUTFITTERS™ 
the campus store off campusThl 
located in the Martin's Supermarket Plaza I block east of Turtle Creek Apartments 
243-4197 
in pretty good at man-to-man. 
"It was good because in the first half we weren't flowing offensively. We had to rely on defending because nothing was going in on the other end." 
Though Brey said before Wednesday's practice "every­body should be available," for­ward Rick Cornett did not dress for Thursday's game. 
Brey used all of his available scholarship players in the push me around like that, no matter how big or how strong they are," McAiarney said. "That's just how my dad taught me and how I was brought up. It's part of the game though, to get knocked over like that. But its also part of the game to get right back up and hustle back." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
PR~PA.R:J TO G:JT COW-PUHK'D!!! 

SPORTS PAGE BAR & GRILL 
50827 PRINCESS WAY (JUST UP RT. 23 IN GRANGER} * FRIDAY, NOV. 4TH * 8 PM * 
LDNS AWAI~D R~Il!IO!t OF L=G~RDARY ROTR~ DAM: GRADS: "BILLY SAUL. Ct~US. CLIRT. ~VIS A GOAT :BOY MOOOY!H 

-
page 22 Friday, November 4, 2005 
The Observer • SPORTS 
NFL 

This could be the year for Colts 
Sherman's future 
Indianapolis will take
tied to QB Favre's 
on New England in 
Packers' signal-caller hopes head coach will remain in Green Bay 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. -Brett Favre says he would be reluc­tant to return to Green Bay next season if Mike Sherman isn't still coaching the Packers. 
The Packers (1-6) are off to their worst start since 1991, which has led to speculation about Sherman's future. 
In an interview with The Associated Press on Thursday, Favre said Sherman's status would play an important role in his annual decision to keep on playing or to call it a career. 
"I don't think there's one spe­cific thing that would make me say yeah or no. It's just a culmi­tle bit different, but I've been here through the evolution. No one else has. The downside of that is, it would be so hard for me to learn something new in a year. 

"It would just be so difficult. I mean, it could be done. Anything can be done. We're talking about just the logistics of the Xs and Os and stuff. But when you've spent 14 years, all they have to do is come in and say right now ... instead of odd being to the left, now it's going to be to the right. You see where I'm coming from? 
"It's no different than my first time in Tokyo, you're driving on the wrong side of the road and it was hell. And I didn't drive; I just rode." 
Favre said that even small tweaks in the offense would force him to deprogram what he's perfected and would have 
a big impact on 
his play. 

Jv1onday night game 
Associated Press 

FOXBOROUGII, Mass. -By next week. the Indianapolis Colts will no longer have to wonder if they choke when they play the New England Patriots. 
They'll have the answer, for sure. 
If the Colts beat New England on Monday night, they can con­tinue to argue that their failures against their former AFC East rival have been due more to personnel than psyche. And should the Patriots win, it will be just as obvious that they sim­ply have the Colts' number. 
"Obviously, you hear a lot of 'Patriots this. Patriots that.' Rightfully so," defensive line­man Dwight Freeney said. "They've beaten us every year since I've been here. So, you have to just handle it and go out there and do what we have to the AFC South. 

The Patriots are 17-4 against their former AFC East rivals since 1993, including six con­secutive victories and seven straight in Foxborough. Peyton Manning is 10-2 against New England; Tom Brady is 6-0 against the Colts and Bill Belichick is 7-1 when leading the Patriots against them. 
"I don't think you get psyched out by that. I think a lot of times it is just dealing with a good team," Indy coach Tony Dungy said. "In the years I have played the Patriots, we haven't beaten them, but not that many other people have beaten them either. I think we have had a team that is good enough, but we just haven't done it." 
But this year is supposed to be different: Indianapolis is the last unbeaten team in the NFL and 1 1/2 games better than its closest pursuer. And even though the Patriots have won the last two Super Bowls, this year they've struggled to over­come the kind of injuries they shrugged off in the past. 
Safety Rodney Harrison is out· for the season, cornerback Randall Gay has missed four games and defensive lineman Richard Seymour has missed three. Running backs Corey Dillon, Kevin Faulk and Patrick Pass are all ailing. 
That tells a lot about why New England has already lost more games this season than in the previous two. And why the Colts have their best chanc~ yet to stop answering questions about the hex the Patriots hold over them. 
"The only way we can end that is to win some of these games," Dungy said. "The last four years, they have been the dominant team in the league and a lot of people are chasing them, including us." 
Belichick also denies there is any magic to the streak, noting that New England won last year's opener 27-24 when McGinest sacked Manning for a 13-yard loss, forcing Mike Vanderjagt to try a 48-yard field goal that he missed with 19 sec­onds left. Manning threw for 259 yards and two touchdowns. 
"Well, look," Belichick said when asked about his team's success against Manning. "He's completed plenty of passes against us. I'm sure he probably had to ice down his arm a cou­ple extra days after the opener last year, he got tired of throw­ing those 60-yarders." 

nation of a lot of "What happens 
do."

"/ don't think 
different things, is your mind 
Patriots this: New England
there's one specific
that being one of almost has just 
has won three of the last four 
them," Favre said. thing that would been engraved 
Super Bowls. Patriots that: the 
"Maybe you're on make me say yeah with certain 
last two have come after knock­
the verge of say­things," he said. 
ing the Colts out of the playoffs.
or no. It's the 
ing yeah, and "I mean, it could 
Patriots one other thing: Indy 
then you say, 'You culmination of a lot be done. It would 
came into those playoff games 
thinking it was their chance to
know what, do I ofdifferent things, be a pain in the 
really want to sit [rear end] I would 
finally break through against
that being one of
in meetings and think. Maybe I'm 
New England.

them.,,
have to learn wrong." 
"I don't think it's any magical 
something all over Favre said he 
or special things that we do, or 
again?' won't know about 
else everybody would be doing
Brett Favre
"That could be next season until 
it," Patriots linebacker Willie
Packers quarterback 
the straw that 
breaks the camel's back." 
General manager Ted Thompson, who has refused to comment on Sherman's future, was out of his office and didn't immediately return a call from The Associated Press. 
Sherman, who signed a two­year, $6.4 million contract extension on Aug. 23 that would take him through 2007, declined comment on Favre's remarks. 
Favre, who turned 36 last month, previously has said he wouldn't want to finish his career in another uniform because he's too set in his ways to learn a new offense. 
Favre, who was traded to the Packers in 1992 after a year in Atlanta, has spent his entire time in Green Bay running vari­

--ous versions of the West Coast offense. "I think that I've been maybe the only player that's ever played 14 years in the same offense," he said. "This offense has evolved; it's something a lit-
the offseason, but 
the weekly grind 

of preparing for games wears on him more with each passing year. 
"It could come down to some of the littlest things, what I'm willing to put myself through. I mean, if it was coming down to just games, I don't think noth­ing could pull me away from the games. I love to play. I love to play," Favre said. 
"But you know, I know, it's not baseball, it's not basketball. You only play three hours a week. You spend all this time ­people think at home that I just show up on Sundays and we McGinest said. "The Colts are a very good team. All of that has been in the past, as far as us winning. That was in the past. This is a new year. They're the best football team in the game right now." 
The Patriots (4-3) have undoubtedly been a good team lately, as evidenced by the three silver footballs in their crowded trophy cabinet. And no one knows that better than the Colts (7 -0) as they come to Foxborough for what has remained an annual rivalry game even after their move to 
play. I'm here taking a damn nap here at lunch, spend all 
Sugarberry Lane "Welcomes All Students,
day and watch film at night. For three hours. And if it does­n't go your way, it's so disap­
Families & Friends To The Game! 
pointing all the time you've put 
into it." While you are in town, be sure to visit Favre pondered retirement 
Sugarberry Lane. Bring this ad and SAVE

last winter while his wife, Deanna, was undergoing treat­ment for breast cancer, the lat­est in a long list of tragedies to 
15% OFF* 

strike the Favre family. 
on all of your purchases, when you select from our 


in stock regularly priced items. 
This area's FAVORITE VERA BRADLEY Emerald Dealer 
Great lines of creams and skin care items • Yankee Candles &Plug-in 
Plus many fine gifts & seasonal decor items 

Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
-----------.~~~---------­
We otTer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie,
-
Baklawa and many delicious dishes... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
Mon-Fri lOam to 6pm • Sat. lOam to 5pm • Closed Sun
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 
A few miles north of Notre Dame & St. Mary's
We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 
*Offer expires November 11, 2005 
Friday, November 4, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Bender loses in first scrimmage with Belles 
By JACK THORNTON 
SportS Writ~r 
With the first regular season game just two weeks away and only two full wm~ks of practiee behind him, first-year Belles' coach Stove Bender decided to throw his players into the lire and sen what they were made of. 
"I wanted to scrimmage some­body that would just kick our fannies, you know, because that's a great wake-up call and that's exactly what we need," Bender said. "It doesn't do us any good to go out and thump somebody and get a false sense of sccuirty. I love to go out and just play tough people." 
Bender got what he was hop­ing for Thursday. The Belles hosted the fitter, more-seasoned Lady Pilots of Bethel in a three­half scrimmage, falling 109-62 and dropping the first two by a combined score of 85-50. 

"We were a lot more condi­tioned than they were," Lady Pilots guard Abby Noll said. "We started nil' kind of slow, but we got up and down the court a lot quicker than they did. I just think we wore them out." 
The evening started out well for the Belles. Saint Mary's zone defense was solid early, forcing Bethel to take risky threes. On offense the Belles converted both in transition and in the half-court set and took an 11-9 lead with under 11 minutes left before things fell apart. Utilizing a string of costly Saint Mary's turnovers, the Lady Pilots went on a 10-0 run and never looked back. 
"When Saint Mary's was fresh, they were executing very well," Bethel coach Jody Martinez said. "They had the lead, they kept it close, but as our cond­tioning came into effect in our transition game, then we wore them out. It's obvious that we've practiced longer." 
Bethel has now had 24 prac­tices plus Thursday night's scrimmage, while Saint Mary's is just entering its third week of practices. 
"What we can get out of this is that we'd like to get transition­wise where Bethel is," Bender said. "They get up and down the court, but I think two more weeks from now, we'll get clos­er." 
Saint Mary's couldn't provide much of a defensive challenge to Bethel, which didn't play three of its starters. The Lady Pilots shot over 50 percent (:33-for-65) from the field in the first two halves, inducting a 9-for-16 per­formance from behind the arc in the second half. 
"My teammates got me the ball, and just set good screeens, and we had really good ball rotation tonight," said Noll, who led the Lady Pilots with 20 points. 
The night wasn't without a few bright spots for Saint Mary's. The Belles were 5-for-10 from 3-point range in the first two halves and outscored Bethel 24-12 in the third half. 
"I think that we exectued 
offensively very well," said Belles guard Nieolo Tucker, who led Saint Mary's with nine points. "I just think that wo miss1~d a lot of bloopor shots." 
Thursday was Bonder's first game action as hnad eoach, giv­ing Saint Mary's fans a ehancn to see the impact he'll rnako with his motion-style oll'onsn. 
"I saw a lot of good things," Bender said. "We just missnd a lot of easy stull' and they worn hottor than a firecracker. I real­ly think we've got a lot of good parts. we just broke down men­tally a little bit whnn things got bad, but that's just frustration­and that's my fault, we'll even­tually got there." 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu 

MEN'S SWIMMING 
Familiar faces meet today 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
Pittsburgh is not us~1d to fin­ishing second. For eight straight snasons, Pitt captured tho Big East title. Last year, though, Notre Dam!~ dnthronnd thn Panthers and won its first ovor conforonce championship. 
The two teams will meet again today in a hnad to head rnatehup at Pitt's Trees Pool at 4 p.m. in Pittsburgh. 
Notre Dame coach Tim Welsh doubts tho Panthers have for­gottnn who stole its perennial crown a year ago. 
"Tako a guess whether we think they arc going to be rnady'!" Wnlsh said. 
As the top two programs in the Big East, the Irish and Panthers have dovelopcd an intnnso rivalry. In the dual meet lwld at Notre Dame last year, thn Irish outlasted Pitt by 3 hundrndths of a second in the final raeo to eorne out on top. 
"It's a vnry hnalthy rivalry. It's vory spiritnd," Welsh said. "It's rnadn both toams hotter." 
Tlw No. 19 Irish enter today's meet coming on· a disappointing loss at No. 15 Purdue. The Boilermakers defeated Notre Dame 182-118, but Welsh was encouraged by many of the times the Irish posted. 

"Last week's loss was disap­pointing to be sure," Welsh said. "But wn also had a num­ber of events where we got faster." 
Nonetheless, Welsh knows the team must improve across the board to come away from Pittsburgh with a vietory. 
"There isn't a single race where we would say right now 'We are as fast as we want to be,"' the coach said. "We spent a lot of our training week this week looking at specific areas that we can improve in each of our races." 
Notre Dame expects to hold an advantage over Pittsburgh becausn of its superior depth. While the Panthers have a con­centrated group of swimmers who post excellent times, the Irish rely on a larger contingent who all are capable of racing at the same speed. 
Pittsburgh traditionally holds the edge over the Irish in div­ing, however. The Panthers return an experienced and suc­cessful group of divers and have added Alex Volovetski, one of the top freshman divers in the nation. 
"Their divers have been the lead divers in the Big East for a long time," Welsh said. 
The Irish will counter with a young but talented foursome of divers in freshman Michael Bulfin and sophomores Mike Maggio, Sam Stone and Chris Kane. Bullin has already estab­lished himself as the team's top diver after just three career col­legiate meets. 
Notre Dame is excited to have the opportunity to take down its top Big East rival this early in the year. 
"We're eager for the meet and we are looking forward to the races," Welsh said. "We know that in order for us to become the team we want to become we have to win tough meets on the road. 
"We are eager for the chal­lenge." 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 



2046 South Bend Ave. 212-1166 Across from Martin's Plaza 

BEFORE, DURING AND AFTER THE GAME 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING. 
Big East competition looms for swimmers 
The Irish will take on Pittsburgh today in conference match 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will get its flrst taste of Big East competition this season when it travels 
east to take on Pittsburgh today at 4 p.m. 
The Irish enter the meet follow­ing a tough week­end that included a close loss to No. 8 California and a defeat to in-state rival No. 15 Purdue. Though Notre Dame lost both meets, the 
Irish remained upbeat about the season. 
"We've had some really great swims so far," junior swimmer Katie Carroll said. "We're right where we want to be at this point." 
The Irish have reason to be positive despite their two loss­es last weekend, as ther·e were strong performances across the board. Carroll won 
six events over the wnekend, and the Notrn Dame frnsh­men showed great promise, totaling three first-place fin­ishes and ono second-place finish. 
Pittsburgh enters Friday's moot with confidence after a convineing victory over Big East opponent Syracuse last week. 
The Panthers won 10 events 
"We've had some really great swims so far. We're right where we want to be at this point." 
Katie Carroll Irish junior 
in the meet on their way to a 173-70 victory that pushed their record to 2-0 and 1-0 in the Big East. 
Des pitn Notre Dame's inferior record and Pittsburgh's strong start, tlw Irish have high hopes for not 
only this weekend's ment but also the season in general. 
"Our goals are beyond the Big East season," junior Jessica Stephens said. "We hope to take can~ of the com­petition in the Big East, and then focus our attnntion to the NCAA Championships." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

-
-
Write Sports. Call Mike. 1-4543.  
£e> me il n d l:nie>"Y Live ~usi c:; il n d if711"e ill-r= e>e> d in ,._,e>vern beII" ill­tftVfR &~ FOOTBALL FRIDAY'S@ FEVER 4TH .APPETITE FOR DESTRUCTI ON '1 iTH FREAKBOX '1 8TH EAR GASM 25TH DANGEROUS .JIM POST DOORS OPEN@ 9 $ '1 AND $2 DRINK SPECIALS 222 SOUTH MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND V,/Vv\N. CLUBFEVER. BIZ v.~n,.•,fV•I. 2 221TAUANSTEAKHOU SE. COM  


..... 

r 
t t 
t page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 4, 2005 
•~ • 
• ~ 
Klein, who rushed for 86 yards 

•I 
last week, also commented on


Se01is 
#1 Zahm #2 
I I the importance of winning the 
• battle in the trenches. 
continued from page 32 
Last week, Morrissey pulled
f 
out a thrilling 13-7 win over
• 
The Bats dodged several late Siegfried, with Klein scoring the bullets last week to pull out a 14-winning touchdown with 23 sec­
Sunday Sunday
0 win over O'Neill. Zahm captain onds remaining in the game. Pat Gourley said he was disap­Despite such an emotional fin­
1 P.M. 2 P.M. 
pointed the defense allowed so ish, Klein assured that his team 
many yards, as he believed the would be mentally prepared for 
game was closer than the score Sunday's game. 
indicated. However, he feels the "We don't want to focus on 
team has to move on. fearing a letdown," Klein said. 
#4 Morris #3 Carroll 
"We're really trying to take the "We have to get our guys to real­positives out of it," Gourley said. ize how close we are to the 
MATT HUDSON/Observer Graphic 

"Our corners really stepped it up Stadium." in the fourth quarter, and our Defensively, Morrissey may red zone defense was key to win­have its hands full in containing men's interhall semifinal Bennett caught a long touch­"Keenan is a really good team, ning." the trio of quarterback Sean between Keenan and Carroll. down pass, and captain Kory they have a lot of guys who can 
The Bats forced a turnover on Wieland, who threw two touch­Few teams have shown the Wilmot scored on a 5-yard run to play," Wilmot said. "The key is downs three times inside their downs last week, wide receiver balance and dominance of these account for the two Vermin defense. If our defense comes to own 20-yard line to preserve the Jake Richardville and tailback two squads, each standing at 4-1 scores. play, we can beat anybody. That victory. Theo Ossei-Anto. after wins in their respective The narrow victory seems to whole side of the ball has a lot of 
Gourley was quick to point out "They have a balanced attack, quarterfinal games. Last week have reinforced Carroll's feeling responsibility. They have a good his undefeated team was not but we think that we can give Keenan easily handled Sorin, that a championship this season offense, and our defense has a looking ahead to the champi­them a good game," Klein said. shutting the Otters out 14-0. is meant to be. big job to do this week." onship game. Defensive linemen John Bush Despite the win, Knights' captain "We have a lot of confidence," "We're ready," Lyzinski said, 
"We're not expecting it to be and defensive Vince Lyzinsk Wilmot said. "We've won our last "When we look at Carroll, we see easy," he said. "Everyone knows back Dan Kiesa wasn't too four games, and we're riding a mirror image -the same it. It's going to come down to who hope to play "[W]e think that we can impressed with pretty high on confidence. Our weapons on offense, the same wants it more." pivotal roles in give them a good game. " his team's play. guys look pretty good. They're tough defense. We know how 
The Bats' captain also men­stopping the "We didn't play intense; they know the signifi­good we can be, and how good tioned that the game could very Zahm offense. very well against cance of this game." they can be too." 
Nick Klein 

well be decided by whoever con­On the other Sorin, we actual­Both teams feel they can win 
trols the line of scrimmage. That side of the ball, Morrissey captain ly had a pretty Sunday's matchup. But both Contact Colin Reimer at 
will be key in stopping the vaunt­Bob McQuiston, bad game," he have a lot of respect for their creimerl@nd.edu and 
ed Morrissey rushing attack, he who recorded said. "We could­opponents and neither is expect­Tim Kaiser at 
said. two sacks last week, and Jake n't run last week, and if we can't ing an easy victory. tkaiser@nd.edu 
Led by team captain and full­McDonald lead a unit that run this week, we won't win." back Nick Klein, the Manorites recorded seven sacks against Keenan's two touchdowns both hope to be the first team to solve O'Neill. came courtesy of quarterback Zahm's stellar defense. Hob Colly -one on a quarter­
"We know that they have a Keenan vs. Carroll back sneak and the other on a good defense," Klein said. "But This Sunday, the Blue league's 60-yard pass from Colly to we just have to wait and see how second-place finisher will clash receiver Dan Zenker. Lyzinski our guys handle it." with the Gold league's best in a said the Knights have practiced 
hard this week for a chance to 
go to the championship game in 
Notre Dame Stadium. 

'They're a really good team, so we got back to fundamentals during practice, and now we're ready to play the game," he said. "The intensity has been stepped up." 
Carroll also scored two touch­downs in its first round victory over Dillon, but the outcome was much closer then Keenan's win over Sorin. The Vermin found themselves down 6-0 at the half to the Big Red, but overcame the PAMELA LOCK/The Observer deficit and a touchdown by A Carroll receiver dives for a pass in Carroll's game against Fisher Dillon to win 14-13. Mark on Oct. 2. Carroll faces Keenan Sunday in the semifinals. 
GEOFF MATTESON/The Observer 

A Morrissey running back evades the reach of a lunging 
Stanford defender in the teams' game on Oct. 13. Morrissey 
hopes to knock off Zahm In the playoffs Sunday. 
r------------------,
: VERA BRADLEY :
Write Sports. 

1 20% off with ND/SMCStu.LD. 1 
I I 
: c~~Ie~Ie :
Call1-4543. 

1 East Bank Emporium Restaurant Bldg. 1 

19o6DOME2oo6 

I 12] S. Niles Ave., (574) 232-8488 I
L------------------J 
YEARBOOK 




'TIME OUT'' 
·. 

. 

.~' 
JiOO PM TfLL CLOH • 1 OAVS A. WEEK· 

7:00 pm til 2:00 am Friday & Saturday 52565 State Road 933 North South Bend, IN 46637 
574-277-5672 Located in North Village Mall (behind Ponderosa)
-
Daily Drink Specials -Sandwiches -Darts -Pool Live Music Every Weekend Watch the Irish on the 106' Projection TV Must be 21 years old with valid ID to enter 
A Ce-PVt:t-1/ry ofJlAe#U>ries" 
Historic yearbook Display 
10 a.m.-Noon Every Football Saturday Dooley Room, LaFortune 
Friday, November 4, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 
,, , 

SINCE HIS BONE TRANSPLAN1i TYLER. IS PLAYING WITH A HANDICAP.. AT THE MOMENT,-IT'S ABqUT NINE. 
c 
fl) 
:;::, 
fl) 
H 
(I) 
fl) 
E 
•r-t 
~ 
fl) 
E 
'0 
U1 
• 
co ~ 
u 
(I) 
~ 
E 
E 
fl) 
..c 
~ 
:3 
0 
.c 
(I) 
.. ~ 
c 
U· •r-t 
"Q 
H 
c.-' 
•r-t 
~ 
c 
co 
...-i 0.. 
(I) 
c 
co 
~ ~ 
fl) 
c 
0 
.c 


co u 
co 
..c 
H 
;I 
0 
c 
~ 
c 
fl) 
:;::, 
fl) 
u 
...-i 
:l 
0 3 
u ~ 
0 
.c 
0 
2 
• 
c 
•r-t 
co 
CJl 
·CO 
~ 
fl) 
CJl 
co 
c 
fl) fl) 
~ 
...-i 
co 
E 
~ 
0 
c co 
E 
co 
H 
.. 
..
... 

• i 
~ 
co 
._c _.,) 
_fl) 
:;::, 

0 ...-i . 
' 
-·~ 

.fll '·· 
L 

t-,/ 
I
fl)• 
..p 
•r-t 
.c 
~ 
co ~ 
..c 
(I) 

co. 

-
' 

E ., 
0 
~ 
4­
(I) 
~ 
·CO 
u 

(I) . i 
' 

~·· 
E 
~ 
0 
Ol H 
(I) 
...-i 
•r-t ~ CJl 
...-i 
~ 
fl) 
~ 


?I' .. 

Tyler· seldom thinks abbut the bone transpant that ~aved his leg. 
' . . ' \ • I < 
he. simply doesn't have time. A self.:.describe~ normal teenage kid, 
National Transplant Tyler has moved on from that bone -cancer and the tissue transplant 
~. I . ..... ,
Assistance Fund 
that followed. Today, he enjoys everything that other· J;tigh school 
. ' . / 
® -students enjoy-:-especially golf. Tyler absolutely loves tha game and
DltNATE 

. ' ·-, ' 
has turned into.quite a goifer. All possible bl\!cause someone like you
tiFE 

made ·the decisi~h. to be an c~gan:~itd tissu~·rlonor... · 
.. ' .· 
YOU HAVE THE POWE~ TO DONATE LIFE. 
To help a patient awaiting:a.transphu~t, col}tact ·~ational·Transplant As~istan~e Fund... 
-
800-642-8399 . • Radnor, PA • w.Ww:transplantfund.org t 
' ~ 

' 
.. 
•. 
. ' 
Friday, November 4, 2005 

page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBALL-QUARTERFINALS 
Walsh begins title defense this weekend 
Cavanaugh will try to continue undefeated season against Badin 
By DREW FONTANAROSA, JAMES FEGAN and GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writers 
Many teams don't get a second chance. But on Sunday, the Chicks of Lewis get just that as they take on the defending cham­pion Wild Women of Walsh in a 3 
p.m. women's interhall playoff game at the West Quad fields. The game will be a rematch of the squads' season opener. 
The Wild Women used two interceptions by cornerback Julie Campbell and three team inter­ceptions overall to beat the Chicks by a score of 12-7 on Sept. 20. 
'The score wasn't indicative of the game," Lewis offensive cap­tain Kara Bailey said, pointing out that the three turnovers led to one Walsh score and halted two promising Lewis drives. 
-
She insisted she wasn't point­ing fingers, however, as she attributed the problems to the 
team's offensive unfamiliarity. 
Senior quarterback Elisa Valdez, a Cavanaugh transfer, was not only making her first start for Lewis but the first of her career. Her teammate says she's improved. 
"I don't even know if she's thrown an interception since," Bailey said. 
Walsh captain Mary Ellen Botta would probably disagree, howev­er, as she continuously praised the ability of her defense for the Wild Women's success. 
"Not only are they tough, but they have scored points all sea­son," Botta said. 

Botta singled out starting cor­nerbacks Campbell and Patty Rose, a senior co-captain, for their excellent play all season. 
Not to be outdone, Bailey also lauded the toughness, speed and agility of Lewis' defense. She didn't forget the offensive side of the ball, either. 
"We're a very balanced team," she said. 
While both teams are confident in their football abilities, they also both expect experience to play a role. 
The Wild Women believe last year's title run, in which they beat the Chaos of Cavanaugh 20­7 in the Stadium on Nov. 14, 2004, will be a distinct advan­tage. 
"We're definitely confident," Botta said. "But not overconfi­dent." 
Lewis, as Bailey put it, went through a "transition year" last season but believes it can fall back on Stadium experience from 2003, when the Chicks lost 7-6 to Badin in the finals, a defeat that Bailey says is still very fresh in the minds of Lewis' upperclassmen. "We will expect to win," Bailey said. 
When asked for any special preparations, Botta believed none were in order. 
"We will treat this game as any other we have played," she said. 
Cavanaugh vs. Badin 

Cavanaugh has every reason to be confident. 
It enters Sunday's 1 p.m. women's interhall playoff game against Badin at West Quad fields on a roll. 
After falling one game short of the title last season, losing 20-7 to Walsh in the championship game, the Chaos have responded with their second consecutive undefeated regular season. 
Quarterback Lisa RuiTer has teamed with a stout defense that blanked Badin 13-0 on Sept. 27. 
If the Chaos win Sunday they could have a rematch against Walsh in the semifinals. The Wild Women face Lewis at 3 p.m. Sunday at West Quad fields. 
Badin, which has struggled to a 1-4-1 record this season, believes the task it faces is great. 
"They're a very good team," Badin captain Meg Charlebois said. "We'll need our older play­ers to step up on defense, partic­ularly Laura Feeny and Katie Fraetz." 
The Bullfrogs believe they stand a chance if they can con­tain Lisa Ruffer in the pocket. While she is a more than capable passer, Badin wants to force Cavanaugh to throw to keep Ruffer from scrambling for yards. 
Cavanaugh's defense is yet another problem for the Bullfrogs. 
Led by Lauren Manning, mid­dle linebacker Karri Bergen and defensive end Kat Moravek, the Cavanaugh defense has lived up to its nickname all season. It frustrated Badin freshman quar­terback Katie Rose Hackney in the teams' previous matchup. 
McGlinn vs. Pasquerilla West 
Sunday's 2 p.m. game at West Quad fields between No. 4 seeded McGlinn and No. 5-seeded Pasquerilla West will be a rematch of a closely-contested late season game. 
In that matrhup, which ended in a 0-0 tie on Oct. 11, both teams had trouble moving the ball as each defensive line put excessive pressure on the quar­terback. 
The Purple Weasels forced McGlinn quarterback Becky Brown to throw two interceptions and induced four consecutive incompletions from their own 4­yard line in what proved to be the decisive defensive stand of the game. 
"PW has a couple of great sec­ondary players, and they were able to catch a couple of 50/50 passes last game," McGlinn cap­tain Bridget Meacham said. "Other than that, I thought we played their defense very evenly." 
As for Sunday's game, McGlinn and Pasquerilla West enter as teams going in opposite direc­tions. McGlinn currently has a two-game winless streak includ­ing the tie with Pasquerilla West and its last result, a 14-0 loss to No. 7 seeded Welsh Family. That makes two games in a row that the Shamrock offense has failed to score, but Meacham thinks this contest will turn out differ­ently. 
"We have some new plays for this game," she said. "We're also more relaxed and focused as we were taking ourselves too seri­ously at the end of the season." 
Pasquerilla West, on the other hand, comes into the game ofT a convincing 26-6 win over Mod Quad rival Pasquerilla East. 
The offense shut out by McGlinn was firing on all cylin­ders as quarterback Cara Davies had three touchdown passes ­all to wide receiver Maureen Spring. 
Welsh Fam vs. Pangborn 
Welsh Fam will take on Pangborn in a semifinal matchup 4 p.m. Sunday at West Quad. 
The winner of the game will play either Lewis or Walsh, depending on who wins that game. 
Pangborn is seeded No. 2 and WelshFam is seeded No.7. 
Contact Drew Fontanarosa at afontana@nd.edu, James Fegan at jfegan@nd.edu and Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

Professor of Psychology, Associate Dean of Am and Letters 
"Exnlorine: Lewis and Clark" 
r " 
10/12-BYU 
James M&ooa, Rev. Edmund P]r!'Jce, CS C, Professor of Anthropology

"Understanding Personality and Emotional Development in 
"Caring for R1bks. Caring for Parcnrs: 

Babies and Children," with Julia Braungart-Rieker, professor 
What Human lnfams Rc;;lly Need and Why'' of psychology and associate dean of Am and Letters. Braun­
11/5-'Iennessee 
gart-Rieker, a developmental psychologist, will discuss some Julia Braungart-Rieker, Professor ofPsycboloc'{y. Associrtte Dean ojArts and Letters
of the various techniques and ways in which experts observe 
''Undemanding Personality and Emorional infants' and children's behaviors to gain a better under­Development in Babies and Children" 
standing of how emotions and children's personalities de­
U/12-Navv 

velop over time. R. Scott Appleby, Prr~fessor ofHistory, john kl. Regan Jr. Director ~(the ]otm B. Kroc Institute }1r lnterm#onal Peace 5tudieJ· Lawrence Cunningham, john A. O'Brien Pr~f'essor ofneology Rev. Richard McBrien, C·owley-01Jrien ProfesJor ofTheology "A Change ar the Top: Pope Benedict XVI" 
11I19-Svracuse Maria Toma.mla., Afit:hael P. Crace Associatr Professor ~/Art; An Hi.;tory and Design • ·'Vasr: The An of lviaria Tomasula" (Snire Museum of Art) 
3-lil hours b&lfe kickotTat rhe auditorium in the Hesburgh Center for International Srudies (unless otherwise nored).

For more infimnarion, visit http://saturdayscholar.mtedu 
For more information, visit http://saturdayscholar.ud.edu 
UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 

"Understanding Personality and Emotional Development in Babies and Chi/Jren» 
Julia Braungart-Rieker 
Fall 2005 Schedule 

Experience an intimatt' discussion with Notre Dame's most engaging faculty speakers on somt~ of the most pre::;sing issues of our times. 
.,.v.~~ 
9/17-Michigan State

~ 
Hnda Przyhyszewski, As.wcittte Pmfo.•sar ~(History ''Carholics, Concubines, and the Consrinrdon: 19th-Cenmry Battles over Churcb and State" 
10/15-USC 
Thomas Slaughter, Andrew V. Tackes Pmfessor ofHisto~y 



Friday, November 4, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 

Tourney 
continued from page 32 
"We know we're a good team and we know we should have won that game," Chapman said. "Not a lot of teams get the chance to play a team you lost to." 
With NCAA tournament SfJOd­ing on the line, Notre Dame has an extra incentive to per­form this week­end, unlike last 
much about it lin the past! because my focus has always been on the NCAAs," Waldrum said. "''ve probably thought about lit[ more this time. 
"The tournament in the Big East has never been a big goal. For the first time ... it is." 
Even if the Irish win this weekend's tournament, Waldrum is concerned that it 
son, compiling a
"We know we're a good

year when the I 0-0 mark in Irish headed team and we know we South Bend. into the confer­Tlwir only two
should have won that 

ence tourna­losses havo 
game.

ment undefeat­eomn on t.hn ed. road -at Santa "I haven't Candace Chapman Clara and 
thought too Marqunttn.
Irish captain 


Echoes of Notre Dame Football 
John Heisler 9:00am -11:00 am 
The Spirit of Notre Dame 
Jim & Jeremy Langford 
10:00 am -12:00 pm 
Tales from the Notre Dame Sideline 
Gerry Faust 12:00 pm -1:00pm 
Notre Dame: Where Have You Gone? 
Eric Hansen 
10:00 am -12:00 am 
Holiday CD and Notre Dame Special Edition CD 
Regis Philbin 12:00 pm -1:00pm 


Friday, November 4 
Notre Dame vs Tennessee Book Signings 
Notre Dame Baseball Greats 
Cappy Gagnon 11:00am-1:00pm 
The Phantom Letters 
Tom Pagna 1:00 pm -3:00 pm 
Future Domers 
Sharon Bui 
1:00 pm -3:00 pm 

I Play for Notre Dame 
Ted Mandell 
3:00 pm -5:00 pm 
Back to Earth 
Kerry Temple 
3:00 pm -5:00 pm 
Saturday, November 5 
My First Notre Dame Words: GO IRISH 
Connie McNamara 10:00 am-12:00 pm 
Irish Gilt: A Notre Dame Mystery 
Ralph Mcinerny 12:00 pm-2:00 pm 
Legendary Notre Dame Quarterbacks 
will be in the bookstore signing their new DVD "Inside the Irish Huddle" 
from  
10:00 am ­ 12:00 pm  
Tales from the Notre Dame Hardwood Digger Phelps 11:00 am-1:00pm  NoTRitDAME i BOOKSTORE  
IN  THE  ECK  CENTER  
phone: (574l 631-6316 • www.ndcotolog.com  

will not be enough for Notre Damn to obtain a top sood. 
''I'm not tho most optimistic about it," Waldrum said. "I think somo othor things still would ne11d to fall into place for us Ito be in tho top four!." 
They will moot No. 1 I Marquette tonight, with the winnor moving on to play either Connodieut or Wost Virginia Sunday in tho Big East Championship, also to be hold in Milwaukeo. 
The Irish havo not lost at 
home all sea­
But. tlw 
Marqunt.te team that upset Notre Damn in latn September will faee a very dif­ferent Irish team tonight. 
For starters, Irish dnl'ender Kim Lorenzen will play for thn Irish tonight. Loronznn was injured in the previous moot­ing. 
"We've got a team full of stars with kids likn Chapman and lfreshman forward Korri I Hanks and !senior forward Katie! Thorlakson," Waldrum said. "But I think Kim has always been the onn player that I've said we can't do with­out." 
With Notre Dame's ability to pressure teams on offense and kill scoring opportunities on defense, the Irish are confident about their chances this wonk­end even though they are matched up against a team that beat them once already. 
"I think we've got to bn smart," Waldrum said. "I think I've got to be a better coach · than I was the last time wn came here. I really wasn't at my best, in hindsight, at mak­ing some moves." 
Offensively, thHre are not many teams that can compare to Notre Dame. llanks (22 goals, 13 assists) and Thorlakson (15 goals, 26 assists) lead tho tnam with 57 points and 56 points, rPspec­tively. 
Thorlakson, who is seoking her first Big East Tournament title in her final season, was named the conference ofTen­sive player of the year Thursday night in the Big East awards banquet. llanks took home rookie of the year hon­ors. 
When Amanda Cinalli is added to the mix, her six goals and 14 assists give the Irish an offensive unit that has 139 points on the season. 
With the semifinal match late tonight and the final scheduled for 12 p.m. EST Sunday, Waldrum said he plans to use a heavier batch of substitutions than he did in the loss, espe­cially because of the quick turnaround if the Irish advancn to the finals. 
"We'vn got to try to ... stay fresh," Waldrum said. "I think we'll knep mixing it up." 
Notes: 
+Junior Jon Buczkowsi took home the Big East's top honor for midliolders in the awards banquet Thursday. With Thorlakson. Chapman and llanks also claiming top honors in their categories, Notrn Damn became the first team to win four major Big East awards in a single year. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu and Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

page 28 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, November 4, 2005 
MEN's SoccER 

Irish face St. John's in Big East second round 
Notre Dame fresh off win over Syracuse in tournament's opener 
By KATE GALES 
Associate Sporrs Editor 
In sports, there aren't always second chances. 
But the Irish are getting one this weekend as they face con­ference foe St. John's in the take place next weekend at the University of Connecticut. 

Past this weekend's game, the Irish are fighting for a bid to the NCAA Tournament. By winning the conference tour­nament the team can receive an automatic bid. They are in solid position to make the tournament now but have not clinched a spot. Another win, especially over a program like St. John's, could make their case for the selection commit­tee. 
They know what's at stake, but the Irish are continuing to take it one game at a time. 
"The mood's been good all season, it's been strong, it's been a strong mentality," Clark said. "This has all the makings of a very good team -I don't think there's any question in anyone's mind about that, certainly not the coaching staff." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

quarterfinals of the Big East tournament Saturday at 7:30 
p.m. in Jamaica, N.Y. 
"I think the guys are very excited to back to St. John's because we felt that was one of the games where we really didn't acquit ourselves too well," Notre Dame coach Bobby Clark said. "Same team, same venue -if we're lucky we'll see if we can do better." 
The Irish lost to St. John's 2­1 on Oct. 16 in an early-sea­son road match. It was the Big East opener for both teams and featured St. John's at a No. 10 ranking and the Irish at No. 16. 
Playing at St. John's is diffi­cult for any visitor, and the Irish have never won at the site. 
"It's because you play on field turf and you've got to adjust your game ... there's certainly things you can do that certainly, I think we can do better," Clark said. "I don't think we did such a good job the last time and there's a few things I think we feel we can improve on." 
St. John's is 9-2-3 against Notre Dame all-time. However, the Irish knocked off the Red Storm to win the Big East tournament title in 2003. 
The Irish finished with a 6­4-1 record in the competitive Big East. The conference had four teams ranked in the latest Soccer America top 25 -No. 5 Connecticut, No. 20 South Florida, No. 23 St. John's and No. 24 Seton Hall. 
"Every game's tight, if you look at the Big East that's the way it is," Clark said. "Let's be honest ... if you can just take one game back and you're pretty well in there." 
The Irish tied Syracuse 0-0 in the first round of playoffs, but won 4-2 in penalty kicks. Last year, the Irish were elimi­nated from the Big East tour­nament by Seton Hall in penal­ty kicks. 
Justin McGeeney, Ian Etherington, Kurt Martin and Matt Besler scored in the shootout for the Irish, with Besler notching his first career goal to clinch the match. 
The Irish were coming off a dominating 4-0 victory over then-No. 16 Seton Hall as Notre Dame finished the regu­lar season on a high note after a hard-fought 3-0 loss to No. 4 Indiana in a regional rivalry match. 
If they win Saturday, the Irish will advance to the con­ference's Final Four. The semifinals and final match will 



Friday, November 4, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 29 
Battle 
continued from page 32 
probably most similar to Denver in the way they play. 
"They have a lot of speed and they play an aggressive stylP. They have an aggres­sive penalty kill and an aggressive power play, which concerns me because that's where we broke down against Denver." 
Tho Wolverinfls arfl 5-1-1, having tied No. 10 Miehigan Statfl and lost at Alaska­Fairbanks 4-2. 
Michigan led by junior Matt llunswiek, who has racked up 10 assists already this season and sophomore Kflvin Portflr, who has found the back of tho net six times. 
Pearce's shutout Saturday left him in serious contention to replace incumbont junior Dave Brown. 
Jackson said he has yet made a deeisiori about a per­

manent startor. 
"Hight now I'm looking to maintain a rotation until I fool like one of them is rnady to become 'the guy,"' he said. 
"If some­body plays two or three 
a starter until after the team's morning skate. Jackson said he hoped the student section would reach 
"/Michigan has/ a lot of speed and they play an aggressive style. They have an agressive penalty kill and an aggressive power play." 
Jeff Jackson Irish coach 
the level of excitement found at Notre Dame's regular sea­son home 
o p e n e r against Princeton. 
"The stu­dent section was awesome last Friday n i g h t ... 
our team immensely." 
Jackson, whose previous college head coaching job was at Lake Superior State, praised the Notre Dame Pep Band for its role in contribut­ing to the Joyce Center envi­ronment. 
"I can't say enough about our pep band," he said. "We've got one of the best fight songs in the world, if not the best." 
Both Friday's game at the Joyce Center and Saturday's game in Ann Arbor will face off at 7:35p.m. 
The Irish return home to faee Bowling Green at the same time Thursday. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

SMC SWIMMING 
Rose-H ulman will test winless Belles 
Saint Mary's hopes to improve in second meet of young season 
By DEIRDRE KRASULA and BECKI DORNER Sports Writers 
The Belles will eertainly have their hands full Saturday as they look for their first win of the season versus the Rose-Hulman Engineers at Wabash College. 
Saint Mary's looks to move in a positive direction after disap­pointing perform­anees in its first won the 100-buttorfly in a time of 1:04.71 and the 1 DO-breast­stroke in 1:11.82. 
Tho 400-modley relay team of Chrissy Guidi, O'Connor, Elaine Kratz and sophomore Anita Isch eaptured top honors with a time of 4:24.46 as well. 
Saint Mary's captain Katie Dingeman stresses that it is still early in the season. 
"Our team still has a lot of training to do before we get to where we want to be," Dingeman said. 
Yet the Belles look to Saturday as a ehance to move forward. 
"We want to improvn our indi­
vidual times and 
continue to have 

meet as it lost to "Our team still has a fun," she said. Hope 89-11 and Hose-Hulman is
lot of training to do. " 

Olivet 98-13. a new opponent 
A confident for the Bellns as a Hose-Hulman Katie Dlngeman non-MIAA team. should be ready Belles captain It will be Saint 
for the challenge, energized after recording several top finishes in the recent Monmouth Invitational. The invite field included national swimming power Chicago and Division I Western Illinois among the six­team field. 
Junior Erin O'Connor of the Engineers led the team's effort with two first-plaee finishes and part of a relay victory. O'Connor 
Mary's last oppo­nent before embarking on winter training. After Saturday, Saint Mary's next meet will not take place 
_...
until the .Jan. 14 when the Belles take on Alma at the Holl's Aquatie Center. 
Contact Deirdre Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu and Becki Dorner at rdornerl@nd.edu 

good gamos in row, they'll probably got the fourth start." 
As for Friday's game, .I ackson said ho will not pick Jaekson said. "It wasn't quite as good on Saturday night. If we can get the students like they were last Friday night on a regular basis that helps 
Open Doors to the Physics Laboratories Nieuwland Science Hall 
Saturday,  November 5th  
9-12  noon  
9 a.m.  Physics Lab Tours and Observatory Open  
10 a.m.  Lecture by Professor Chris Kolda God's Dice: Einstein and the Journey from Wedgewood Kilns to the Uncertainty Principle Professor Kolda will describe the twistffi history of quantum rrechanics and Einstein's role as its inventor and then critic, and haw we may be on the verge of cx:rrpleting Einstein's quixotic search for a throry 'Which would bring relativity and quantum mechanics into agreement after 100 years of disagreement....  
11  a.m.  Guided Physics Lab Tours and Observatory Open  

www.physics.nd.edu Free admission. General public invited. 

page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, November 4, 2005 
BCS 

continued from page 32 
BCS ranking, the schedule is oddly turning against the Irish when they need it most. 
Uncontrollable disparity? 
Notre Dame ranks No. 69 ­tied with Clemson, Iowa. St, Memphis and Wyoming -in strength of schedule by cumu­lative opposition. This means, factoring the records of all teams on Notre Dame's 2005 schedule, past and future, the Irish have fallen behind 68 of them in the strength of their opponents' performance. Those 68 teams include Rice, Wake Forest and even Temple. 
The past five seasons, Notre Dame has averaged about No. 19 in that statistical category. 
Last season, the Irish fin­ished No. 7 in the country in strength of schedule. And in 2003, Notre Dame was No. 3 
behind  only  Alabama  and  
Florida, respectively.  
The  same  teams  on  the  

schedule last season are there again this season. So is the sit· uation out of Notre Dame's control? 
"It's just another example of how you really don't know how it's going to play out," Notre Dame assistant athletic direc· tor John Heisler said from his office Oct. 27. "You have these names on your schedule, and at the end of the day, no mat· ter who it is -whether it's Michigan or USC or whether it's Pittsburgh or Purdue ­you don't know how good they are and you don't have any control over that." 
Notre Dame, and any 

Division-! program in general, also has no control over how the schedule strength affects BCS standings, which ultimate­ly determine postseason aspi· rations and revenue gains for participating schools. 
But the schedule strength clearly is hurting the Irish at this point. 
How the BCS system works 
BCS standings rank Division­! teams from one through 25. There are three systems, and each counts for a third of the final "BCS average," the deci· mal point that determines the rankings. 
There is the Harris Interactive Poll, the USA Today Poll and the computer rank­ings. The Harris Interactive polls former players, coaches, administrators and media. USA Today polls coaches. But the computer rankings, with six different contributors, fac­tor schedule strength along with other stats into their final decision. 
Therein lies the difference between Notre Dame being No. 14 at the moment, or poten· tially much higher [see graph­ic]. 
While the Harris Interactive and USA Today polls each list the Irish at No. 9 by their cal­culations, the computer rank· ings push Notre Dame back to No. 22. 
The Irish get an automatic bid to a BCS bowl game if they are ranked sixth or better with nine wins. Notre Dame also is eligible for BCS bowl selection if ranked No. 12 or better with nine wins. 
But average all three of its rankings together, and the Irish are still eight spots out of receiving an automatic BCS 
Avg.

Ramo Imem:i"" USA 'Today 
Comp. BCS 

.........~.ank. ..~.. 
1;1~~~~ ...........'!. ....... 
....~~k ..Yo..

·1:· ~;rt~~c~~~~~i~  1 0.9940  0.9961  T·2  o.940  -~~~:·] 
2. Texas  2 0.9607  2  0.9581  1  1.000  
3. VIrginia Tach 4. Alabama  3 G.9250 4 0.8683  3 4  0.9232 0.8703  T-2 4  0.940 0.870  0.92941 0.8695  
5. UCLA  6 0.7781  7  0.7742  6  0.810  0.7874  
6. Miami (Fla.}  5 IU106  5  0.8290  10  0.830  0.7566  
1. Penn State  10 0.6435  11  0.5981  5  ll.830  0.6905  
8. LSU  1 o.7685  6  0.7839  T-14  0.510  0.6875  
9. Flor!da State  8 0.6892  8  0.6839  T-14  0.510  0.6277  
10. Ohio State  12 0.5565  12  0.5335  8  o.700  0.5967  
11. Georgie  11 0.6060  10  0.6232  12  0.530  0.5864  
12. Wisconsin  14 G.-4821  14  0.4768  1  0.730  0.5630  
13. Oregon  13 Q.4828  13  0.5045  9  o.aso  0.5458  
14. Notre Dame  9 0.6802  9  0.6374  22  0.160  0.4859  
15. Texas Tach  16 O.A042  17  0.3845  11  0.560  0.4496  
1€L Florida  1& 0.4382  15  0.4181  16  0.390  0.4154  
17. Wast VIrginia  18 0.3175  16  0.3852  13  0.520  0.4076  
18. TCU  19 0.2605  20  0.2588  T-18  0.380  0.2924  
19. Boston College  20 0.2545  19  0.2871  20  0.240  0.2605  
20. Auburn  17 0.3497  18  0.3318  NR  o.ooo  0.2271  
21. Michigan  22 0.1526  23  0.1148  17  0.380  0.2158  
22. Colorado  24 0.0851  24  0.0781  T-18  0.380  0.1748  
23. California  21 0.2124  21  0.2110  NR  0.000  0.1411  
24. Fresno State  23 0.1465  22  0.1600  NR  0.000  0.1022  
~~:.QI!~~--··~·-~--···  J.::~L!~~  T-30  0.0077  21  0.200  0.0704  

bowl bid. 
The schedule bowl 

Heisler said the BCS bowl picture rebounds to influence the way in which programs now compile schedules. In the past, a team like Notre Dame did not have to schedule while wary of a postseason formula. 
"There was really no formal . mechanism in terms of the bowl games other than they were probably extending invi­tations historically at some point in the month of November, quite often when teams still had games to play," Heisler said. 
In 1978, for example, Notre Dame went 8-3 but still received an invitation -which it accepted -from the Cotton Bowl. The BCS, not in exis· tence at that time, was created prior to the 1998 football sea­son partially, Heisler said, to avoid situations such as bowls being determined before a sea­son's completion. 
"That's probably prompted people to take a harder look at their schedule and say, 'Hey, whatever we're being handed by our conference or in our position as independent, 8-3 probably isn't going to be good enough to make the cut, even more so as an independent,'" Heisler said. 
"You'd love to play the Michigans and the USCs every week, but that's just not reali­ty." 
An evolving future 
New NCAA legislation has increased the Division-I foot­ball regular season to 12 games, beginning next season, so schools' scheduling tactics will be evolving yet again. 
Once the 12-game season becomes the norm, for exam­ple, schools will have room for only one bye week, Irish coach Charlie Weis said Tuesday. That will eliminate any specu­lation on the effect of having two bye weeks so close togeth· er, as Notre Dame did this sea­son (Oct. 8 and Oct. 29), but won't have a drastic effect on the team, according to the coach. 
"If [the bye week] is early in the year, you have to use it to push your system," Weis said. "If it's in the middle of the year, you've got to use it to rest your guys. You just have to make sure whenever those bye weeks occur, you use them to the greatest benefit." 
Notre Dame is also inching closer to securing "neutral site" games for the 2009 sea­son and afterward. Heisler said Notre Dame is heavily considering the states of Florida and Texas as locations for its 12th game. Notre Dame plans to schedule seven home games and four away games along with the "neutral site" game in those seasons. 
"We've had a very good response from various 
Notre Dame is ranked No. 9 
in the Harris Interactive and 
USA Today P.Olls. but its No. 
22 standin£. in the com'fhuter 
rankin:t&s ags the Iris to 
o. 14 overall. 
liM 
=· 
Poll percentages are calculated by dividing team poll-point totals by common numbers unique to each system. 
The BCS average is calculated by averaging the percent totals of the Harris Interactive and USA Today polls and computer rankings. 
MATT HUDSON/Observer Graphic 
cities/bowl games/sports com­missions," Heisler said about interest from possible hosts for the "neutral site" game. "We've kept folders and prom· ised to get back to people as we get to the decision-making point. We just haven't quite pulled the trigger on any of these yet." 
Doing what they can 
Though the schedule and postseason pictures inevitably will change again in the future, all the 2005 Irish can do at the moment is fight for wins and the let the rankings take care of themselves. 
Though Tennessee is No. 9 in the country in strength of schedule, none of the four remaining teams on the Irish slate are even close to BCS contention. And that is where the interesting contrast exists. 
Year to year, in a sport with a constantly evolving postsea­son format, all programs ­Notre Dame included -must adjust to a common set of rules and polls, though season to season, those same rules seem to backfire in different ways. 
However the rules of the BCS and the laws of scheduling change, all a program can do is adjust. 
"Things could change year· to-year relative to the NCAA and the window of these play­ing seasons just like they do with other sports," Heisler said. "The harder thing is that with football, your schedule is being done -more so than other sports -on more than just a year-to-year basis. 
"The way we're doing our scheduling, when we've got all 12 games in our hands, there'll be much more of an ability for us to create ... It's not going to be anyone else's fault if the schedule doesn't look like [what] we want it to look like." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 




Friday, November 4, 2005 
The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
~ 
. 


ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
CROISSANTWORLD 
Su\ w~ E.N ALL -~~E. 
ALL T1-1£.SE 
PEOPLE. ~\lf;:.R'\ \NI-\E.\2.,e I f><M So !CY\A L.L~ 1-\0ME FoOTBALL 
G. E.\ S\R.e ss r uL , 1 L.OS\ ~\L-1.1-\\ NOW. 
GAM£':> ARE 
USUALL'I COMI:: \..\P \-\ 'Do "( o U K I D'.S $TA~\IN(( TO 
"TO \I-I.E. \h !-~ "PLOOF!., \1.-(e 
(TE.\ TO ME.. 
Of' THE Ll !'> Rf'\~~ Tb 
S\Ul>'\ At'\£:;> _.........___c.~.-~\1-L OU:T 
~ 
(/-; -:' ' t 'L-:­
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 32 Negatively 51 "There's no way"
1 Airshow staple 33 Double-check, 12 Skip preceder .say 
58 A third of nove 
15 Catwoman, e.g. 35 1970's radical 59 Old Colony's grp. neighbor
16 "0 the cannons ~ their rosy-36 Provider of so Done, to Donne 
flashing partial 61 Spy wear muzzles!": coverage? Whitman 
37 Certain polit. 

DOWN17 Result of a big party 1 Flight 
impact 
38 Pope's title 19 Some 2 With 4-Down,40 Concert ending 
some swimsuits 41 Quince, for one
accounting 
entries: Abbr. 3 Giant of note 42 Mine openings
20 Brand name on 4 See 2-Down a white bottle 43 Constitution: 
5 Sticker 21 "When We 
Abbr. 

6 His mate
Dead Awaken" 44 Kind of 7 Verdi's "_ tu"
dramatist personality a Raft
24 Hi· 46 Abbr. in many 27 China's Zhou French street 9 Goose, to 
names Gregoire 
28 "Children of the 47 Pinups, perhaps 10 Whenever Tenements" 48 Foot bone 11 Political adviser author Richard
50 Winter 29 Peggy Ashcroft Olympics 12 It offers bedding and others powerhouse: and betting 30 Pseudonymous 47 Gloria 53 End of peace? 31 Numerical prefix Abbr. 13 Working doctor Steinem's" 
54 Where SantaPlayboy Bunny" 
14 Some longhairs 33 "From to 
Fe is: Abbr.
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 18 Defensive Mozart" ( 1980 49 Broad-topped 
comeback documentary) hill, in the 55 Dance bit 34 Some N.F.L.ers Southwest 
"":"T-:-r':"""T"':"'T":="' 

21 Part of an 56 It includes 
-rl-:-:+:-:+::+.F-1 underg round 39 Holdup 50 Rock producer juilletspring crop 
43 Aces Talmy 

57 Super_
22 Forbes 400 
45 Spread like 52 "As It Happens" (GameCube wildfire airer predecessor)
!ln~···· 

23 Novellistee subtitled••-=+=+=+:.;..! "The Weaver of Raveloe" For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1·800·814·5554.
24 Bartender Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaydupers crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888· 7 -ACROSS.
25 "Seriously!" 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
~~=+~:+.;;..! 26 Place out of 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).sight 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 
___.___.__.__._.....__....._.......... L......I 

29 Friend of Froggy solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City _________ State ____ Zip______ 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square. 
to form four ordinary words. 
DAGUR 
1 
rJ [] 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
MUJOB 
I I I 


WHAT HAPPEN~ TO THE: BASKE:T­
tLENCAG 
BAL-L. PL.AYE:R WHO COUL.DNT DRIBBL-E:?
J I I 
www.jumble.com  
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon.  
Yesterday's  Jumbles: Answer:  (Answers tomorrow) PLAIT TWICE DRUDGE NUMBER When the marching band won lhe school competi· lion. they-"TRUMPETED" IT  

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Dolph Lundgren. 4!!; Adam Ant, 51: Kate Capshaw, 52; Dennis Miller, 52 
Happy Uirthday: Face your problems head-on this year instead of waiting for someone else to take the lead. There is nothing wrong with changing your mind along the way, but don't contribute just to complain when things don't go your way. Be a participant. Your numbers arc I. 4, II. 14, 28. 35 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Talks will lead to resolution, so clear up whatever you can today. Be concise and don't let anyone put words in your mouth. Your strong convictions will attract someone who can make an interesting partner.***** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your mind should he on money and contracts. The more you can do to finalize what you want, the better. Take cure of any legal matters quickly before they get out of hand. A new partnership may he just whal you need. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): It's time to set the record straight and tcm1inatc dead weight. Professional moves will lead to a positive future. Your ahility to sell yourself will seal a deal. *** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have a much wider view of the possibilities being presented to you. Don't stop short of getting everything you want. If you hold out just a little longer, everything will fall into place. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): No one will know what you want or where you arc headed today. You will be up and down and will exude excitement and adventure. You'll be hard to resist and difficult to keep up with. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Relieve the tension you are feeling by getting into a competitive situation. Once your mind is preoccupied with winning. you will find the everyday chores a piece of cake. Make plans to do things with family.*** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): The more you move ahout, the hetter you will do and the more you will learn. You will find a new way to make money and, if you follow through, you will be able to change your life. Romance is in the picture.**** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You prohahly won't see things too accurately, especially when dealing with personal issues. A chance to get involved in a new project may sound fantastic, but be careful ahout putting your own money on the line. Financial risks will not pay off. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may be questioning your direction, hut don't fret·· that is the only way you will discover what you really want to do. Change is inevitable, so don't fight it.*** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't get angry because a group you belong to isn't following the rules. Take this as a sign that it may he time for you to move on. Working within the confines of a tightly knit group could limit your accomplishments.*** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't be hullheaded enough to think you can go it alone. Overspending or being egocentric ahout your abilities will be the very thing that stops you dead in your tracks. Listen, observe and incorporate the suggestions. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): To make a full-fledged decision, leaving you no room for maneuverability will be a mistake. Hem and haw if you must, hut don't make promises that will block what you want to do in the future. ** 
Birthday Baby: You are dynamic and engaging with vast interests and a desire to try everything. You have a strong will and a unique way of viewing things. You are a contrihutor. 
EugPnia's Weh sites: astmadvice.cmn for fun, eugenialast.mm for mnfidemial consu/tatiom 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Friday, November 4, 2005 
page 32 
MEN'S INTERHALL SEMIFINALS 
Stadium awaits winners 
Morrissey hopes to take 
down top-seeded Zahm 
in Sunday's semifinal 
By COLIN REIMER and 
TIM KAISER 
Sporrs Wrirers 
A trip to Notre Dame Stadium is 
on the line Sunday as top-seeded 
Zahm clashes with Morrissey at 1 
p.m. at Riehle Field, the first of two men's interhall semifinal contests that day. 
The game features teams that possess power running games and stingy defenses. Both squads pulled out close wins last week and are prepared for what promises to be a very physical battle. 
see SEMIS/page 24 



HOCKEY 

Notre Datne prepares for No. 3 Wolverines 
Irish turnaround is on the line tonight as team faces highly-ranked Michigan at the JACC 
---
The Irish are 1-3 and are goalie Jordan Pearce to win haven't we?" Irish head coach 
By CHRIS KHOREY 

coming off a 
.,.....,,..,...,..,.,...~................, 2-0. Jeff Jackson said. "It seems 
Sports Wrirer 

split with Pearce was named CCHA like every team we've played Princeton at rookie of the week for his 27-has been No. 1 at some 
After earning its first win of the Joyce save performance against the point." the season last Saturday, Center last Tigers. Jackson said the experience Notre Dame will face a tough weekend. The Wolverines will be the of playing the Colorado challenge this weekend in its The Tigers third top-1 0 team Notre schools will be a positive Central Collegiate hockey won 5-3 last Dame has played this year. against the Wolverines. association opener, a home­Friday, but The Irish faced No. 10 "Playing teams like Denver and home-series against No. Notre Dame Denver and No. 1 Colorado and Colorado College can only 3 Michigan beginning tonight b o u n c e d Jackson College in a western road trip help us," he said. "Michigan's at 7:35 p.m. in the Joyce back behind Oct. 21 and 22. Center. a shutout from freshman "We've picked them all, see BATTLE/page 29 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish vvant revenge at Marquette 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN and KEN FOWLER Sporrs Wrirers 
A month ago, the Marquette Golden Eagles embarrassed Notre Dame, 4-1, in the team's worst conference loss in a decade. Tonight, the Irish hope to return the favor and further their quest for the team's first Big East Tournament title since 2001. 
No. 5 Notre Dame travels to Milwaukee to face No. 11 Marquette in the Big East semifinals today, attempting to win its lirst conference post­season crown in four years against a team that knocked the Irish off on Sept. 30. 
Irish head coach Randy Waldrum said the team's 4-1 loss earlier this season to Marquette has inspired the Irish leading up to the week­end competition. 
"I probably haven't seen them this excited for a Big East Tournament in the last few years," he said. "It's some­thing they're looking forward to." 
Senior Candace Chapman, who was named Big East defensive player of the year Thursday, knows what it means to have the chance to play a team for the second time in a season, especially when the opponent won the first meeting. 
see TOURNEY/page 27 
fOOTBALL 

Rivals slacking when 
ND needs it the 111ost 
Strength of schedule is dragging down Irish BCS ranking 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Wrirer 
In recent years, the Bowl Championship Series (BCS) postseason picture has not been the backdrop coloring the Notre Dame football land­scape. The Irish have made just two, non-BCS bowl games in their previous four seasons -the 2002 Gator Bowl and the 2004 Insight Bowl. 

Also during this time, and especially in the past few years, Notre Dame has boasted one of the strongest schedules in the country. The statistic meant nothing when the Irish were not in bowl contention. But as Notre Dame heads into its eighth game of the season with a 5-2 record and No. 14 
see BCS/page 30 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Lewis gives Irish a quick scare 
Irish struggle early, recover to cruise by Division II Flyers 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associare Sporrs Edi ror 

Notre Dame coach Mike Brey planned to experiment with a variety of on-court combina­tions in the team's first exhibi­tion game Thursday night. In a 59-40 Irish win over Division II Lewis University at the Joyce Center, his plan quickly 
see OPEN/page 21 


en 
MEN'S SOCCER 
SMC BASKETBALl 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

NCAA fOOTBAll 
1-u LLI 
Notre Dame at 
Bethel90 

Louisville 42
Notre Dame at 
z St. John's 
Saint Mary's 52 
Pittsburgh 

Pittsburgh 20
:3 

The Irish look to
= The Lady Pilots 
The two top teams in 

The Cardinals handed 
creamed the Belles in a

avenge their loss to the 
the Big East square off 

Dave Wannstedt and
c:c 

Johnnies in the Big East 
scrimmage at the Angela 
in a dual meet today in 

the Panthers another 
Athletic Center. 
Trees Pool. 

conference loss. 
Tournament. 
page 23

page 28 
page 23 
page 19

en 
= 
...... 
Irish Insider cr
r 
No.8 Notre Dame takes on Tennessee in Notre Dame Stadium at 2:30 P.M. Saturday. 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 4, 2005 
Role reversal for Irish and Vols 
Here we go again. as Randy Sanders stepped But all of this could help good coach. 
There's another late-sea­aside as offensive coordi­the Volunteers tomorrow. They don't have to hear son game tomorrow at nator Monday in one of the Will the Irish underesti­local talk radio in Notre Dame Stadium scariest Halloweens in mate Tennessee? Are the Knoxville bemoaning this involving a head coach Volunteer football history. Irish too thrilled with the underperforming football under fire 
But doesn't it feel like fact they team. and an the roles should be are about Tennessee offensive reversed? two plays is hurt but system The Irish have been the away from The Volunteers are 3-4, very dan­that can't team to underachieve and being No. 1 gerous. 
seem to grasp around unsuccess­in the but those losses have Remember find its fully for an effective nation? come to Florida, one thing­way out of offense in the past decade. They Georgia, Alabama and the SEC is a paper There's no question, shouldn't by far the
South Carolina -four
though, that this is a new be. As Irish toughest
bag. Two Mike Gilloon 
of the season for the Irish -with defensive squads with a com­conference most sto-a new coach and definitely coordinator bined record of26-6. in the coun­ried pro-Sports Editor a different offense. Rick Minter try. The 
grams in It's Tennessee that has said, the Volunteers college the problems. It's 3-4 Volunteers are 3-4, but football history will meet record is indicative of the are scholarship players those losses have come to in one of the best fight­rocky situation on Rocky too. Notre Dame should Florida, Georgia, Alabama song matches of the sea­Top. The Vols don't even remind itself that the and South Carolina -four son, but the play on the have a solid No. 1 quarter­Volunteers secondary has squads with a combined field looks to be a mis­back this late in the year, given up just three passing record of 26-6. The match. One team is so as both Erik touchdowns Volunteers don't seem to down after last week's loss Ainge and all season be scared of raucous envi­to a school they have in Rick Clausen Tennessee ronments either -they the past had no trouble have tried to The Irish have been will need to ventured into Death Valley beating, they might not be run this inef­put on its best at LSU earlier this season
the team to 

able to get up. fective performance and came out 30-27 over­
underachieve and

But, for once, that team offense. The of the season time winners. is not Notre Dame. The situation is so grasp around to have a There's an ugly, angry, Irish aren't trying to bad that sev­unsuccessfully chance at orange animal on its way recover from another loss eral fans wore upsetting No. to South Bend. The Irish
for an effective

to Boston College or look­paper bags 8 Notre had better have their ing for a way to somehow over their­offense in the Dame. guard up. keep Florida State from heads last past decade. It just racking up 37 points. week during might. The Contact Mike Gilloon at 
The team is Tennessee, Tennessee's Volunteers mgilloon@nd. edu. and that coach is Phillip 16-15 home are on the The views expressed in Fulmer. Fulmer shook up loss to South Carolina, led road -away from their this column are those of his coaching staff this by the least popular man fans, many of which have the author and not neces­week in an attempt to get in Knoxville -Steve seem to have forgotten sarily those of The this season back on track Spurrier. that Fulmer really is a Observer. 
game hype 

'This is the scariest 3-4 team you're ever going to go against. " 
Charlie Weis Irish head coach 
''We're just focusing on Tennessee ... thinking about the orange and the 

white." Corey Mays Irish linebacker 

"[Their 
defensive linemen] can play almost 
. anyother position on the field, with as 
Brady Quinn 
fast as they are." 
Irish quarterback 
"Sometimes life doesn't go the way you wanted it to go and you have to keep fighting. " 



219 N. Front Street Niles, Ml 49120 269-684-2233 www. nilesriverf rontcafe. com 
**Located in downtown Niles 10 minutes from the University 
Accepting Reservations for Post-Game Dining 
Outdoor Dining: Outdoor Grill On the Weekends 
Live Entertainment: Some of the Best Blues, Jazz &Classic Rock in the area 
Great menu featuring gourmet Soups, Salads, Sandwiches, Pizzas &Baked Pastas 
Serving Espresso Drinks and the Cafe's own Specialty Drinks 
. 

Art Gallery &Gift Shop 
Friday, November 4, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page .1 
0 Captain, nty captain 

CLAIRE KELLEY and MATIHEW SMEDBERGffhe Observer 

A pensive Brandon Hoyle pauses during game action at Washington on Sept. 25, left, and breaks up a pass to USC running back LenDale White in a 34-311oss on Oct. 15. 
and in a red-shirt freshman sea­season-saving hit. On Oet. 5, Iloyte joined a group Dame should not bn any morn 
By PAT LEONARD 
son. "You don't just hit people to of fellow Notre Dame and Saint dillkult lin· I Ioytn. Sports Writn 
(;oing into the fall, I Ioyte made tackle them," lloyte said follow­Mary's students for a bonfirn at Wlwtlwr he continues a f'oot.­tho preseason Butkus Award ing the game. "You tackle them the soecer lield behind Angela ball earner or puts his :~.:~5 <;PA At first glance, this is tho story watch list to honor the nation's so they won't get back up." Athletic Center. lloyte reeited to use, the man on thn weak side of two nwr1. top linebacker. lie was named a The Irish would lose to two original poems to the group. of thn Irish linebaeking r.orps has 
Onn is a Division I football Lott Trophy quarter-finalist last Pittsburgh the following week, lie has been writing pontry since set himsnlf and thn Irish up pnr­playnr with 261 can~nr tackles wonk in honor of on-and off-field eliminating the possibility of a junior high school. feetly. and a knack for making the big pnrl'ormance. strong finish to the season. But On April 28, lloyte was the fea­On tlw field, opposing players play. lin's in his fourth year play­But lloyte -the player and lloyte had set the tone of how tured speaker for the Literary have criticized lloyt«~'s spend. IIn ing lirwbacknr, and he hits as the poet -doesn't load a dou­the Irish defense should play -Council of St. Joseph's County's is not the tallest player, nithnr. hard as somn of thn pros. ble-life. lie just lives a complete and of how Hoyte would become eighth annual Luncheon for But his vocal leadnrship and 
Tlw sneond is a college stu­one. their leader. Literaey. hard hitting have lwlpNl Notr·<~ dent. quiet and reserved, who "Anything you would ever ask "I think [I lead] first and fore­"He was wonderful to work Damn's dnl't~nse -with I (J does his best thinking with a pen for in a model football player, most by producing on the field," with," said Brenda Green­turnovers in sovnn gamos ­and a pad of paper. IIn attends student-athlete and person and Hoyte said. "You can say what O'Connell, the council's executive earn some desorved respect. bonfires to recitn pontry and captain is what he is," defensive you want, but you have to pro­director. ''lie's sueh a generous "We don't take him ofT tho d«u~s community serviee. eoordinator Hiek Minter said duce." person." field," Wnis said Tuesday. "Jir~·s 
It's interesting that at sfleond Wednesday. "lie's our eoach on lloyte leads the team in tackles In a nationwide sports atmos­earned our trust as thn most glance, the two men arfl the the field. make no mistake about this season with 56 (33 solo). He phere of scandal and debate, dependable guy we have in all samn pnrson. It's fitting that fifth­it." has four sacks and 11.5 tackles athletes like Hoyte seem to situations." year senior Brandon lloyte -for Joss -five more than the bridge the gap of understanding. So maybe, as the saying goes, multi-talnnted and respected -Erik, remember me? next closest player, defensive end His tendency to mingle with any Hoyte is not a warrior poet at all. was named Notre Dame's dflf~m­On second-and-eight, from its Victor Abiamiri. Hoyte is averag­person -athlete or non-athlete He is, instead, a poetic warrior, sivn captain when coach Charlifl own 32-yard line with less than ing eight tackles per game and is -makes him a natural favorite writing his final verse. Wnis took over for the 2005 sea­30 seconds remaining in the sec­on pace to shatter his previous of those he runs into, those he The Volunteers are in town, son. ond quarter, Tennessee lined up season-high of 74 (2003 and has class with and those he takes and Notrn Dame's defensive cap­
"I le may snmn quiet to every­in the shotgun. Volunteers coach 2004), But he always shifts his snaps with. The only question tain has three home games one else, but onee he puts the Phillip Fulmer would regret the concentration away from previ­remains: how many people in the remaining to dose out what has pads on, puts the helmet on, he's play call. ous aceomplishments when he world ean knock a quarterback been -but what he won't yot a difl'ernnt person," Notre Dame Tennessee quarterback Erik discusses his football career. out of a game and also write admit to be -a memorablo quarterback Brady Quinn said Ainge fumbled the snap, and as Following last season's 6-6 fin­poetry regularly? career, on and off the field. Wednnsday. he serambled to reeover, Hoyte ish, for example, Hoyte said out­"I would say it's a normal per­"I don't think you ean ever sell 
Quietly, I IoytP (5-foot-11, 235 steamrolled into the baekfield right he did not play his best and son !that canl, to be honest with yourself short with elliwt," Iloytn pounds) has boeome a forceful and drilled Ainge, falling to the that he was glad he had another you," Hoyte said, laughing at any said. "I think that's one thing I've loader for the Irish defense. turf hard with the orange jersey year to rnetify it. Now, with only hint of abnormality in the situa­learned ovor the years playing I laving play«~d bnhind and along­beneath him. four regular season games and a tion. this game is that sornetim1~s side doparted linebackers like Ainge had a separated right possible bowl berth looming on "I just like having fun, and effort beats talnnt, sonwtinws Courtney Watson, Mike Goolsby, shoulder. Notre Dame had the the horizon of his days wearing that's my way to have fun and efl'ort boats smarts. Ho1~ky Boirnan, Tyrno Harrison momentum and, eventually, a No. 39, Iloyte refuses still to give my way to get away. I got away "And I hope that at the rmd of -rwPn living with Derek Curry 17-13 road win in Knoxville, a final evaluation. from life when I get onto the the day people say, 'You know, -tho Parlin, N.J. native has Tenn. On Nov. 6 of last season, "I'd say [l'ml not finished football field, and I get away what? That kid plays roally, n~al­grown through nxperirmcn and I loyte made his presence known because the season's not fin­from life when I write poetry." ly hard." innxpnri1mce, in-gamr~ situations with a devastating and nearly ished," Hoyte said Wednesday 
when asked to assess his career's Closing out Contact Pat Leonard at progress. "Game to game, I see Getting on with life after Notm pleonard@nd.edu myself getting better." 
A way with words 

lloyte strives to improve in 
by the numbers

other endeavors, as well, but they present difl'erent obstacles. In football, for example, you Number of opponents the Irish have faced from the SEC ean't run out of ink. in the last seven years-Tennessee. The Irish are 20-12 
lloyte writes poetry in his all-time against the SEC. 
1 

spare time and oven reeites it publicly, proving that when pno­
Notre Dame's national rank in total offense. The team is averaging

ple or teammates label him as 
492.71 yards per game.
9

"quiet," they don't mean he keeps to himself. They mean he is thoughtful and both soft-and 
Tennessee's national rank in defense. The Volunteers have
well-spokrm. 
allowed an average of only 293.6 yards per game.

"lie's one of those guys who I 
12 

think is obviously quiet, I would­n't say soft spoken," Quinn said, searching for words to aecurate­
3 Passing touchdowns allowed by Tennessee in seven games this season. 

Iy dnseribe his co-captain. "But at the same time when he speaks I think everyonn listens because 
Touchdown passes thrown by Brady Quinn this season, breaking the 
2o
of ... his passion." 
record of 19 set by Ron Powlus.

The linebacker's passion and empathy have rubbed olf on the MATI SMEDBERGffhe Observer people he has worked with off 
7 
Number of games in which junior wide receiver Jeff Samardzija has

Unebacker Brandon Hoyle, top, and defensive back Ambrose Wooden the field ever since he arrived in 
caught atouchdown pass-a Notre Dame record.

take down BYU's Naufahu Tahlln a 49-23 win on Oct. 22. South Bend. 

Friday, November 4, 2005 

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 

HEADT
Record: 5-2 

AP: 8 Coaches: 9 Notre Dame Fighting Irish 
Charlie Weis first season at 
NOTRE DAME

Notre Dame career record: 
2005 Schedule 
S-2 
Sept. 3 at Pittsburgh-W 

at Notre Dame: 
S-2 
Sept. 10 at Michigan -W
CharlieWeis against head coach Tennesse: 0-0 
Sept. 24 at Washington -W
Roster 

·::¥1 No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR I D.).Hord WR 6-1 198 FR 
Oct. 1 atPulctue-W 

•....:f/:f;

3 Darius Walker RB 5-11 200 so 
4 Anthony Vema~ia DB 6-3 221 so 
5 Rhema McKnig t WR 6-1 215 SR 
-L

6 Ray Herring DB 6-0 199 FR 7 Darrin Bragg WR 6-1 192 so 8 Junior }abbie RB 6-0 188 so 9 Tom Zbikowski DB 5-11 203 }R 
Oct. 

10 Brady Quinn QB 6-4 231 }R 11 David Grimes WR 6-0 170 FR 12 Marty Mooney QB 6-2 207 SR 13 QB 6-2 207 FR 
Nov.5 TENNESSEE 14 s::7l~~r~:r QB 6-2 196 so 15 Leo Perrine DB 6-0 186 so 16 Rashon Powers-Neal RB 6-3 238 SR 
Nov. 12 NAVY

17 Geoffrey Price p 6-3 186 }R 17 Dan Gorski QB 6-3 196 FR 18 Chinedum Ndukwe DB 6-2 219 }R 19 D.}. Fitzpatrick KIP 6-2 206 SR 
Nov. 19 SYRACUSE 

20 Terrail Lambert DB 5-11 188 so 21 Maurice Stovall WR 6-5 222 SR 22 Ambrose Wooden CB 5-11 197 }R 23 Chase Anastasio WR 6-2 203 JR 
Nov. 26 at Stanford 


7: 
23 W. David Williams DB 5-10 170 so 24 Brandon Erickson WR 6-0 178 so 25 Nate Schiccatano DL 6-2 237 SR 26 Wade lams DB 5-9 188 so 26 Travis Thomas RB 6-0 215 JR 27 David Bruton DB 6-2 187 FR 27 John Lyons RB 6-1 205 JR 28 Kyle McCarthy DB 6-0 189 FR 29 DB 5-9 190 JR 
30 ~i~~o~c~:~Js~~on DB 5-11 193 SR 31 Jake Carney DB 6-0 187 SR 32 Jeff Jenkins RB 6-0 232 SR 32 Alvin Reynolds Jr. DB 5-10 180 so 33 Justin Hoskins RB 5-10 186 so 34 Tommie Lee DB 6-2 200 JR. 
COACHING QUARTERBACKS IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
35 Ashley McConnell RB 6-0 247 JR 35 Tim Kenney DB -6-0 180 JR 36 Brandon Harris DB 6-0 198 SR 37 Matt Mitchell DB 5-8 187 SR 38 Nick Possley WR 6-1 183 so 39 Brandon Hoyte LB 6-0 236 SR 
Quinn has been noth­Weis finally got the After running for at least Maurice Stovall became 
40 Maurice Crum, Jr. LB 6-0 220 so 41 Scott Smith LB 6-3 234 FR 
ing short of spectacularmonkey off his back last 100 yards in each of his the first Irish receiver in
LIJ

42 Kevin Washington LB 6-1 231 FR 
this season, tossing 20week, winning his first first four games, Walker school history to catch four 
43 Anthony Salvador LB 6-2 233 SR 
:E 

touchdowns, including a44 RB 6-0 250 FR 
home game against BYU has slowed down recently, touchdowns in a game,
<C

45 ~!:f~i~~~wapp 5-10 )R
K 183 

Notre Dame record sixQ after losing to both 
with only 17 yards on 
snagging four of Quinn's 

45 Rich Whitney DB 6-2 213 JR 
46 Core?', Mays LB 6-1 234 SR 
last week against
Michigan State and USC. 
seven carries against BYU. 
six against the Cougars.
LLI

47 Mite ell Thomas LB 6-3 240 JR 
Brigham Young. He
Weis was effective in help­Rashon Powers-Neal Samardzija extended his

48 Steve Quinn LB 6-2 220 }R 
0:: 

49 Matt Augustyn FB 6-3 220 }R 
0 ~ 

earned his second
ing the Irish rebound 
scored six times in his first streak of consecutive

50 Dan Santucci OL 6-4 290 SR 52 Joe Brockington LB 6-1 212 JR 
Cingular Player of theagainst the Cougars after four games but didn't play games with a touchdown 
53 Joseph Boland LB 6-2 242 SR 
z 

Week award for the
a heartbreaking loss to 
against USC or BYU and is to seven with his 11th

54 David Fitzgerald OL 6-4 293 SR 56 Nick Borseti LB 6-4 238 JR 
effort.
USC in the final seconds. 
not practicing. 
touchdown against BYU. 

57 DL 6-2 252 )R
~b~~r~;~dahenson

58 LB 6-1 220 so 59 James Bent OL 6-2 265 SR 60 Casey Cullen DL 6-1 238 JR 61 ).).jansen LS 6-3 242 so 
The Volunteers' passPhillip Fulmer is one of The Vols have struggled The Tennessee run 

62 Scott Raridon OL 6-7 304 SR 63 Jeff lisak OL 6-3 305 FR 
defense isn't as impressivethe best coaches in NCAA to find a quarterback and defense is one of the best 

66 Derek Landri DL 6-3 263 SR 
as the run defense but has 
football, posting 126 

stick with him in 2005. 
in the business, yielding 
LLI

68 Ryan Harris OL 6-5 288 )R 
LLI 
been solid this year andwins, all with Tennessee, Rick Clausen has played in 

only 85.6 rushing yards69 NeilKenned/; DL 5-11 260 SR 
«n

71 James Bonel i OL 6-5 280 SR 
yields 208.3 yards in thesince taking over as head seven games, throwing for per game. Top in the

72 Paul Duncan OL 6-7 292 FR 73 Mark LeVoir OL 6-7 311 SR 
ffi 
air per game. The team'scoach in 1992. Fulmer 1,107 yards and three tough SEC in run defense, 

74 Dan Stevenson OL 6-6 292 SR 
z 
secondary has protectedled the Vols to a perfect touchdowns, while Erik and fifth overall, the unit

75 Chris Frome DL 6-5 268 SR 
z 

76 Bob Morton OL 6-4 292 SR 
against the big play for the 13-0 mark and a national 

Ainge has appeared in five 
is anchored by a strong
LIJ

77 Michael Turkovich OL 6-6 290 FR 78 john Sullivan OL 6-4 298 }R 
1­
most part and is currently
championship in 1998 

games, where he's thrown front four and linebacker 
79 Brian Mattes OL 6-6 285 SR 
and has coached in 11 ranked No. 8 in the SECfor 343 yards and two Kevin Simon, who leads

81 Rob Woods WR 6-2 208 SR 82 Matt Shelton WR 6-0 172 SR 
January bowl games. 
and No. 44 nationally. 
touchdowns. 
the team with 63 tackles. 

83 jeff Samardzija WR 6-5 216 JR 84 Michael O'Hara WR 5-10 180 SR 85 )oeyHiben TE 6-4 253 FR 86 Mike Talerico TE 6-5 245 so 87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-3 245 SR 
As effective as Weis has 

A legitimate Reisman The Notre Dame 
While Tennessee has 

88 Anthony Fasano TE 6-5 255 SR 
been in turning around a). 
been respectable in pass
Trophy candidate, ground game has cooled ,

89 john Carlson TE 6-5 255 SR 90 Brian Beidatsch DL 6-3 294 SR 
struggling Notre Daniel 
off, rushing for just under .l 


coverage this season,
91 Craig Cardillo K 6-0 174 JR 
program, year in and yeari Quinn, Samardzija andthe table than 200 yards total a:gainstt

92 Derrell Hand DL 6-3 301 FR 
93 Dan Chervanick DL 6-1 259 SR 
out, Fulmer and hhP 
Stovall provide too muchheaded USC and BYU in its last'~ 

94 Justin Brown DL 6-3 247 so 95 Victor Abiamiri DL 6-4 260 JR 
Volunteers have been a of Clausen and two games. Run defense for the Vols to handle. Add 

96 Bobby Renkes K 6-0 195 JR 
force to be reckoned with. 

Quinn knocked is Tennessee's strength, Walker, Matt Shelton and 
96 Pat Kuntz DL 6-2 267 FR 98 Trevor Laws DL 6-1 293 JR 
In the last 10 years, and it yielded only 65 
Anthony Fasano. and the 

99 Ronald Talley DL 6-4 261 so 
Tennessee has posted the 

Irish should be able to con­most wins in the SEC with 
in. the rushing yards to South 
tinue piling up the big a 101-25rf)cor~,;,;jl b~ttv'een Carolina and 67 to 
numbers.

a 17-13 Irish win. Alabamll!Ji)Y;P. ~~~~Jago. 


Pat Leonard 
Managing Editor 
Heather Van Hoegarden 
AME 



Friday, November 4, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 

~-------­
: 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 4, 2005 
Sizing up the Irish and the Vols 

AVERAGE PER GAME 
total yards gained total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained passing yards allowed 

kick return yards gained kick return yards allowed 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE 
vs 
TENNESSEE'S DEFENSE 

L___ ___ 492.71 
-~l!?lli!lli¥11!!•1.-------' 
152.71 


L__ 34o.ol 
_ .....,:!111!11.------' 
~ 
• : 
yards per punt punts blocked 
turnovers lost turnovers recovered 
total points scored total points allowed 

Notre Dame yards penalized Tennessee yards penalized 
40.11 
1 


I . 37.91
-..r-------------' 
TENNESSEE'S OFFENSE 
vs 
NoTRE DAME's DEFENSE 


-.---.
c=== 25.31 
NOTRE DAME 
RUNNING GAME 
Darius Walker leads an Irish rushing attack with Travis Thomas, above, that managed just 44 yards on 23 attempts in last week's 49-23 win over BYU. But the team did most of its damage in the air, throwing for six scores. 
Offensive tackles Mark LeVoir and Ryan Harris have helped Notre Dame average 
152.7 yards per game on the ground and score 13 rushing touch­downs. The Irish aver­age 3.5 yards per carry but will continue to deal with the absence of full­back Rashon Powers­Neal, who has not been practicing with the team. 
TENNESSEE 
RuN DEFENSE 
Tennessee's defensive line has held opponents to 2. 7 yards per rush and only 85.6 yards per game while giving up just six touchdowns on the ground. 
Defensive ends Parys Haralson, above, and Jason Hall -along with Justin Harrell ­anchor the line. Haralson has had 30 tackles on the year, just ahead of Harrell (29) and Hall (26). 
Haralson also leads this year's team in tackles for loss and sacks with 10.5 and 5.5, respectively. 
The Vols have held opponents to 39 first downs on the ground this season. 




Did you work for The Observer? 
The Observer will be celebrating its 40th Anniversary with a reunion during the weekend of the Blue a:· Gold Game this spring. We would love for you to attend. 
Please contact Maureen Reynolds at mreynold@nd.edu for more information. 
hiday, November 4, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Thomas takes over role of 'power back' 
tlw next game againstJunior has seen key Michigan, Thomas was relegat­ed to second-string. But he
thne on the field as 
found a home in special teams,Walker's conzplement and that gave him the confi­
dence to try to work his way 
back into the ofl'ensive rotation. 
By HEATHER 
"Special teams was some­
VAN HOEGARDEN thing I did well last year, and I 
Sports Wri1cr 
thought playing well on then1 
would also give me an opportu­
Travis Thomas madn a good nity to have a key role on lirst impression on Notn1 Damn ofTnnsn," the junior said. "So I Ill'ad coach Chari i<' Wnis, and just took advantage or every SI1VPn galllPS latPr, it is paying opportunity I had." oiT. For Thomas, it took a lot of 
Thomas was Plnetl'd spneial waiting to g11t another opportu­teams captain for tho Irish's nity at running back. In the first first ganw against Pittsburgh, six games of this season, he sonwthing that rnally stuck out didn't get many carries outside to Wnis. of those when the Irish were 
"Wiwn I first got hnrn, tho winning by a large margin. first gamo I coached horn, "It.'s always hard to be Travis had alrnady bnnn award­patient, but I just tried to keep .-d to IH1 the t1mm captain on a positive mindf'rame," Thomas SJWCial tnams said. ''I'm going to right off tho hat," wait to get an Weis said. "So lw opportunity soon-had alrnady won or or later, I just
"New staff. 

m y r11 s pnct had to be ready 
new start,

bneauso I thought when it comes." that's llw typo ol' new attitude." But the patience pnrl'orrnane11 that paid of'f', as the lw had put in, in coaches slowly
Travis Thomas 
tlw ol'fsnason. gnt­started to insert 
Irish running back 
ting r11ady to just him as a pass gPt startnd whnn I blocker in certain first startnd situations. coaching lwn1." "I think that's 
Thomas first startnd playing where they started me ofT in SJWcial tiHtms as a sophomorn situations where I had to pick last snason af't11r losing his up blitzes, key plays, and I cap­starting running back position italized on that opportunity. wlwn lw fumhlnd twien in six and I got some carries oiT of' rarrins in tho opnrwr against that," Thomas said. Brigham Young. Wlwn fresh­And so after excelling in man Darius Walk11r nmnrgnd in those opportunities, Thomas has linally made his way into the oJTens1-1. Against No. 1 USC on Oet. 15, he ran for 52 yards on 1 R carries, including a 16­yard touehdown run. Thomas credits the fresh start he had this season in helping him regain his conlidenee. 
"New staff. new start, new attitude," Thomas said. "IThe key was] just stepping up and playing the way I know I can play, and I think I've done that so far. I think the more you play, t~e more confident you can be. 
And so now that Walker and Thomas are sharing the car­ries, both believe it is only to the b1melit of the team. Walker is more of a finesse back, whereas Thomas hits the line a little harder, giving opposing defenses two backs to prepare for . 
"Travis is a bigger back, and he's able to get in there on the short yardage; he's more of a power back than I am," Walker said. "Me, I'm kind of' the speedy guy who kinda moves around a little bit, slashes and euts. It's nice for us to get out there and for both to be able to play our role because it keeps the defense off balance, they don't know what they're going to get which back is going to come in." 
And both backs are willing to sharo carries, as they say that they see it as friendly competi­tion. 
"Obviously there's competi­tion -running baek is a com­petitive spot," said Thomas, who has carried 3R times in seven games, good for 167 shown in tho game against thn 

yards and three touchdowns. Trojans. 
"But we're also good friends ofl' "Travis has now put himsnlf 
the lield, too. I think wn com­in tho position to continuo to 
plement oach other well. I think gnt mon1 rnps ofTonsivnly as a 
he's a more flashy typo. of back, running back," Wnis said. "It's a 
and I'm more of a hit it and get . dol'initn chango or paen ­
it type of guy, so I think we'ro a bdw11nn him and Darius. I have 
good complement to each a lot of <~onfidorH~o in Travis 
other." both as a spodal toams playnr And with Thomas morn confi­and as a runrwr." 
dent in himself this season, 
Weis isn't hesitant to give him ContactHeather Van Hocgardcn 
tlw ball on ol'f'ense, as was at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Weis prepares for vaunted Vols defense 

By MATT PUGLISI Associate Sports Editor 

Tennessee offensive coordi­nator Handy Sanders resigned Monday. The Volunteers have not settled on a permanent quarterback between senior Hick Clausen and sophomore Erik Ainge. And a seasoning­ending injury to the team's starting running back, Gerald Higgs, Jr., has left the offense in dire straits. 
But for all of Tennessee's offensive problems, nobody is questioning its defense. 
''I'd say this is as good a defense, if not the best defense, we've played this year," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "I have no problem say­ing that. This is as good a defense as ... I've ever seen since I've been here." 
The numbers are impressive. 

Entering tomorrow's show­down with Notre Dame, the Tennessee defense is allowing 
16.0 points per game (ninth lowest in the nation) and 293.9 total yards per game (No. 12). The Volunteers have been par­ticularly stingy against the running game, holding oppo­nents to only 85.6 yards per contest (No. 5). That includes 132 total rushing yards com­bined by South Carolina (65 yards) and Alabama (67 yards) in their last two games. 
Tennessee hasn't carried the same stif'ling defense to pass coverage, where tho Vols are currently yielding just over 200 yards a game (20R.3) though the air, only No. 44 in the nation. 
But the seeondary has given up just three passing touch­York Giants standout 111ft end downs through the season's Michael Strahan, who silt an first seven games. NFL record with 22.5 sacks in 

The success of the Tennessee 2001. defense starts with the hard­"First of all, he looks bigger nosed, gritty play of the team's than 24R to me," Weis said. "I four primary defensive line­used to say tho samn thing men: left end Parys Haralson, about Michael Strahan with left tackle Justin Harrell, right the Giants. lie's I think listnd tackle Jesse Mahelona and at about 260 pounds. You sit right end Jason Hall. there and say, 'They play tl111 
"Those guys can play almost same position. they're over at any other position on the field, that left defensive end on our with as fast as they are," Irish right. Why are they such good quarterback Brady players'!' Quinn said after "There's really watching film. "''d say this is as two reasons 
"They can get good a deftnse. if when a guy is pressure on you undersized: 'A,'
not the best 

with only rushing they're dynamie
defense. we've

four," Weis said. pass-rushers. "Not that they played this year. " 'B,' they play don't blitz, with leverage. I because they blitz think lllaralson I
Charlie Wels 

plenty. Any time dons both. 
Irish head coach 
think he's a vnryyou can rush just four and get pres­sure on the quar­terback, that already gives you an advantage. But they are physical up front, both as pass­rushers and in the run game. They move around a lot." 

Tennessee head coaeh Phillip Fulmer echoed Weis' senti­ments, also pointing to the pressure created by the front four as the key or the Tennessee defense. 
"Our front is where it starts," Fulmer said. "Our defensive football team has played con­sistent." 
Loading the team with 10.5 tackles for loss and 5.5 saeks, Haralson has anchored a line that has provided constant pressure all season. Wnis likened the undersized Haralson (248 pounds) to New 
good pass-rush­or and lw plays with leverage." 
An athlntie linebaeking unit. led by leading tacklnr Knvin Simon (63 tackles) couples with a quick. tall secondary that has, for thi1 most part, managnd to prevent the big play. 
"They havn an nxpnrinnend group or linebackers bnhind them that is thorn to makn plays on top of it lwforn you even get t~. thn .spne.d ir~. tlw secondary, Wms sard. You got spend in tho secondary, you got experinneed, athletic linn­backers and a front four that's pretty dominant. I think that's a very good combination." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 4, 2005 



... en
GO DEEP MEDIUM EXTRA LARGE 
In

= a 
-a:

--.. 
-... z 
CD= 
-II.
•
.1:.. 
-a
a: 
In" 
-w 

BUILD YOUR OWN 
EXTRAS 

One Topping 7.99 11.99 13.99
• 

wings breadsticks u= Additional Topping 1.00 1.50 1.75 buffalo or barbeque 
cheesesticks
.. 
chicken strips

c:t Coca-Cola® u BETTER TOPPINGS salads Products 
Ham Beef Green Peppers
=-= 
u 

Pepperoni Anchovies Jalapeno Peppers
f I· 
f = Spicy Italian Extra Cheese Banana Peppers
~ 

Sausage
a 
Mushrooms Pineapple 
Sausage
c:t 
Onions Grilled Chicken Bacon

c:t 
Black Olives Fresh Sliced CD Tomatoes Tomatoes 



'· 








