
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
College grants focus on local area 
Students collaborate with South Bend 
Hy MEGAN O'NEIL 
A"istant News Ediwr 
t\ fnw months ago, 1\lia Sanclwz was just a regular sPnior al Saint Mary's. Now, with Llw lwlp of a grant from llw Cnnter for Women's lntnrl"ultural Lnadership ICWII.I. shn is putting hnr Spanish skills to work as tlw studnnl coordinator, anchor and produrnr of a lora! pui.Jik tPinvision program "lmagnn l.alina." 
CWII. has crnatl'd a nnw grant opportunity for Saint Mary's faculty and students likn Sandwz, d1~sigrwd to facil­itate pr<(jnclo.; lwtwenn thn local I'OIIIIIlllllil.y and thn Collngn. 
ThP "bridging college with t·ommunity grant," which is 1·.o-sponson~d by the oflkn of civic and social nngagmnnnt, provides up to $2500 li1r facul­ty-student tnams to eollai.Joratn with a community nwmbnr or organizal.ion on nd ucational initiativns. 
Since ilo.; birth in 2000, CWIL has awardml dozens of granlo.; n~lat<~d to ilo.; mission of insti­gating intnrcultural nngago­numt at Saint Mary's. The cen­lnr oft1•n providns monny for studnnlo.; traveling abroad and fiu~ulty n~snan~h in intercultur­
see CWIL/page 6 

THURSDAY, MARCH 3, 2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Students anticipate Bush's visit 
Air Force One not 
expected to disrupt 
spring break flights 
By MADDIE HANNA 
Assistam News Editor 
While some studnnts are vying for tickets to Prnsident Bush's speech at the .Joyce Center Friday, and others are preparing to prott~st outside, still others are worrying about tho prospect of spring brnak flight dnlays out of South Bend Hngional t\irp01t dun to the arrival of t\ir Foree One. 
llownver, the only delays will oceur during the 15 minutns bnforn Bush's arrival and tlw 15 minutes aftnr his dnpartun•. air­port exocutive director .John Schalliol said. 
The Whitn llousn issued a media release Wednnsday that included arrival and departurn timns for .Air Foren Onn, hut ask<~d nnws agencies to keep Uw information eonf"idnntial for security r<msons. l.ocal tnlevision stations WNDU and WSirJ', how-
see AIRPORT/page 4 

Roughly 1500 identification cards swiped in five-hour distribution of lottery numbers 

By KATE ANTONACCI 
Associate News Editor 
Students lined up outside the J>oolny Hoom in the LaFortune Student Centnr Wednesday to enter a lottery for the 200 avail­abln tkkets to President Bush's visit to the .Joyce t\thletic Center Complex (.IACC) Friday. 
"I don't have an cxaet number, but our rough estimate is that around 1500 [idnntilieation cards[ were swiped," said .Jimmy Flahnrty, Student Union Board (SUB) managnr. 


Death penalty talk gets personal 
Exonerated inmate, others discuss firsthand experiences in panel 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
Whiln tlw issue of capital punishmPnt typically gnrwratns dnhatn. fpw discussions involve individuals from as many pnr­spPctivns as did Wndnnsday night's panPI nntitl<•d "National llPI>atn on thn I>Path l'nnalty." t\ pardonml dnath row inmate and till' grandson of a brutally mur<IPrPd woman wnrn among tlwsn who ofTnrnd t.lwir opin­ions on till' isstw. 
TIH• disrussion was <JJJP of lhl' rulminating nvnnts in a WI'Pklong snries of events eallnd "l.i fn in thn Balance: llnath l'nnal ty l'nrspectivns," and was modnratPd by law student Katn Leahy, chair of 
the Notre Dame Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty, and snnim Miehanl PoiTenberger, a anthropology and peaee stud­ii~S major. 
"It is up to us as concerned speaknrs to detennine how to ad most responsibly within sodnty," l'ofTnnberger said. 
Tho f"it·st panel member to speak was Hichard Di11tnr, thn exneutivn dirnetor of the Washington. I>.C.-basnd Death Pnnalty Information Center. Dieter strnssed the presence of tho dnath p1~nalty in t\nwriean history while rof"erring to Tuesday's Supreme Court rul­ing that tho Constitution bars eapital punishment for juve­niles. 
"What happened yesterday 
SUB was asked to eonduet a lot­tery Tuesday evening and put tognther a distribution similar to the one used for away football gamns, which usually takes a fbw wnnks to plan. Flahnrty crndited the hard work of SUB members lbr the ellkiency of the last-minute event. 
"People were aetually really excited," said J:llaherty. "People kind or knew what to expeet from a SUB lottery-that they are well­run and organized." · 
SUB was the organizer of the event, but Student Government, mainly the Student Senate, was asked to assist in the ticket distri­bution. Student government oln­eers said students took advantage of the opportunity to put their name in the lottery. 
"Both my eonservative and liber­al friends are trying to got tickets, which is also positive," said Niek Coleman, Senate Diversity Committee Chair. "I eould also notiee that the studenl<> were dis­appointed that only 200 studenlo.; will have the opportunity to see President Bush ti·om tltis lottery." 
Many studenlo.; expressed exeite­ment at the chance to see the president, whether or not their political bnlin[o.; are consistent with thoso of the currnnt administra­tion, 
"I was interested in hearing our president spnak, nspndally sinen I'm a Bush supporter. It'd be intemsting to see what lw has to say," said junior .Johnny Mospan. "It'd be enol. Not evnryone g<~lo.; to hoar a prnsidnnt spnak in pnrson." 
Bush's speoeh about Social Security is i1pen to the greater South Bend community, as well <Lo.; to Notrn Damn, but l.ieknts arn short in supply. 
see LOTTERY/page 4 

was an amazing turnaround for the Court. The Supreme Court took on_ this issue 1 5 years ago, but in 1989 there was a sense that the death pPnalty was permissible under our constitution," Dinter said. "Even when the death penalty · was originally banned in 1972, it was not boeaus1~ executing humans was deemnd erunl or unusual. but becausn !capital punishment! laws at that time wern very arbitrary." 
Dintnr doseribed tho subso­quont shirt in public opinion away from the doath penalty, attributing this move to the establishment of DNA technol­ogy as an accepted means of 
see PANEL/page 6 


Thursday, March 3, 2005 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE CoLUMN 
Spring break ... serenity? 

Unlike a lot of my classmates, I'm not going on vacation for spring break. Sure, a cruise in the Caribbean or spending the day relaxing on a beach in Mexico would be nice. But what's so great Mike Gilloon about a week in a tropical paradise full of sand and 
Sports Writer 
sun? 

Instead of all that, I'm heading back to my home­town of Omaha. That's right. Instead of travelling to Cabo, I'm spending my spring break "some­where in middle America." 
And I can't wait. 

I can't wait to hang out with a few of my old friends. But not to party all night long, I just want to relax on the couch in my buddy's base­ment. Watch some Seinfeld re-runs and recall the time our friend Morgan's pen exploded in his mouth during sophomore theology class. 
I can't wait to pick up a late-night Frosty at Wendy's and cruise the street with the windows down as Bob Seger's voice seeps through the classic rock station on the radio. 
I can't wait to stop for lunch at King Kong Gyros, where everyone speaks clear English .. except for the guy taking your order. His Greek accent is the only thing thicker than the half-pound burgers they serve. 
I can't wait to shoot hoops in the driveway with my sisters, using the same Notre Dame basketball I got when I was 11. The grip is all worn off and the Leprechaun is gone, but it still works for a game of knock­out. 
I can't wait to sleep in my bunk bed, the same one I've slept in since I was eight years old. It creaks a little bit and my legs hang over the edge. But it's cozy and the sheets are a lot warmer than my dorm room. 
I can't wait to drive past Rosenblatt Stadium, the home of the College World Series. I'll look forward to the second week of June, when I can sit with my friends in the sun-soaked stands all day long and watch the top college baseball teams in America. Tickets are only five bucks, just two dollars less than the chicken fingers. 
I can't wait to head over to Homer's Music, the best record store in town. The COs aren't as cheap as at Best Buy, but the atmosphere is incomparable. There are only two cash registers, and the people behind them look like they are in a contest to see can dress more like Jerry Garcia. 
I can't wait to go home. 

And if I get bored? Well, I'll just turn on MTV and see how much fun everyone's having at spring break. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu ,... 
The views expressed in ·the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTION 

The Observer regards i <Self as a professional puhlicarion and mives for rhe highesr srandards of Journalism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mis­take, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU WERE ON IRISH IDOL, WHAT SONG WOULD YOU SING, AND WHY? 


Brendan DuBree Andy Carter 
senior freshman Stanford Fisher 
"That 'Numa-"'School's Out Numa-i.ei' song for the Summer' because that because we all dancing fat guy wish it was. " is just awesome. 

OFFBEAT 
Man sets off nuclear alert detector on fire engine 
ESCONDIDO, Calif. -A man who recently had received radiation treat­ment for: a medical condi­tion set off a nuclear alert detector on a !'ire engine, prompting police to close down a roadway in Escondido while authorities searched for a nuclear weapon. 
The Rancho Santa Fe Fire Protection District engine crew's radiation monitor sounded Tuesday when the man and his friend walked past the crew on their way to fill a gas can. 
The Nuke Alert monitor 
TODAY 

0: 
Zac Liptak 
freshman Zahm 
"'Call On Me.' We all know why." 
sounded again as the men walked back to their vehi­cle. 
Firefighters notified the San Diego County Sheriff's Department after they drove by the men's vehicle and the monitor sounded a third time. 
Robber: Prison will help my crime research 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -A man caught in a parked car counting loot from the bank he'd just robbed, with his fake mustache falling off, told the judge who gave him a nine-year term that prison would be an opportunity for his further study of criminal 
Eric Natke 
freshman Dillon 
"Hmm ... 'Jefferson 
'
Starship because it's awesome. 
behavior. 
''I've talked to kids about crime across this country and on three continents," John L. Stanley told U.S. District Judge Fernando Gaitan at his sentencing on Tuesday. "But there arc some things about crime you can't understand unless you get into the belly of the beast." 
Stanley, 61, of Dallas, already has first-hand knowledge of life behind bars, and he's written and lectured about his criminal past. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 

Grise! Ruiz Pat Ryan 
senior freshman off-campus Keough 
"If I did sing, "'Since U Been-
which I can't, I Gone' because would sing Hamilton Marx something is my idol." romantic, like Whitney Houston. " 
IN BRIEF 

There will be a poetry reading entitled "Notes from the Divided Country" today from 7 p.m. to H in the Hospitality Room of South Dining I I all. 
The Higgins Labor Research Center is sponsoring a viewing of the lilrn "On the Waterfront" today at 4 p.m. in C-1110 Hesburgh Center. 
The women's lacrosse team face Northwestern today at 4:30 
p.m. at the Moose Krause Field. 
As part of Gay. Lesbian. Bisexual and Questioning Awareness Week. thr. l'ifm "In and Out" will be shown today at 6 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. There will be free pizza and soda at the ewnt. 
Frank Connolly. professor ol" mathematics, will be featured in the workshop "How to Prepare Undergraduates for Graduate Work and Graduate Fellowship Competitions" Friday from 3:30 
p.m. to 5 in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Center. The event is open to all Notre Dame faculty. 
Men's and women's track will be competing in the Alex Wilson invitational from 7 p.m. to 9:30 in the Loftus Sports CPntc·r Friday. Tlw meet continuPs Saturday from 10 a.m. to:~ p.m 
The film "Bad Education" will be shown at 7 p.m. and 10 in tlw Browning Cinema ol' tlw DeBartolo Center for tlw Performing Arts. For tickets. call the DeBartolo box ollke at 1-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

37 31 

HIGH LOW 

LLI % 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
c( 
CJ 


0 
HIGH 31

..J LOW 24 

HIGH LOW 


42 29 

35 25 

Thursday, March 3, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
SENATE 
Melllbers discuss new-spaper, printer pilot prograllls 
Tribune are now bning dis­
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
tributnd to campus locations News Writer 
daily -morn than double the 400 handnd out each day 
Pilot programs took tho when tlw program first start­wlwn I at Wednesday night's eel. meoting of tho Student AfTirrning that everything SPnato, wlwrn sPnators wore "wont very well," Sexton givnn updatns on thn progrnss nxplainnd that they will 
o f ho t h tlw Co II e ge examinn the surveys taken by l!nadnrship and dorm printer students Wndnesday and pilot programs. begin to work out the most 
Tracie Snxton of' thn USA viable program for the Today addressed tlw Sonatn University. during podium, giving a When questioned about the rnvinw of the College cost of the service, Sexton Hoadnrship Program's deelined to give a number, progrnss and answnring any saying they have to get questions senators might through the process of analy­havn. sis and discussion before they 
Tlw l'our-wook long pilot can outline a realistic budget. program, which ends Friday, Vijay Hamanan, chair of the is a f'rtH~ trial pnriod during Committee on Academic whieh thn nnwspaper nneds Aff'airs, which spearheaded of' tlw studtmt population arn the program, said his com­addrnssed, and al'tnr which mittee is looking into sources mombers of tho student gov­of' funding, and plans to send nrnnwnt can assoss tho valuo letters to academic depart­of' paying l'or tlw snrvicn f'ull nwnts asking for contribu­limn. tions to help balance ()Ut the 1,500 to 2,000 pages were epidemically," as Powers enf'orcement of' parietals over 
Soxton said that ovor a costs. printed ofT in the trial dorms said. the break. t h rt~ e -we n k p n r i o d , 2 6 , H 8 9 Chris Harris, Carroll each week, and that an White protested the m is­"We suggest giving each rwwspapers eir­Senator and expansion to all the dorms is nomer of "Spring Break," student an anklet that ean nrlatPd through member of the being considered. The cost of pointing out that the vacation detect the hormone lnvels in
"The consumption 

Notre Dame's Committee on doing so, however, must be is two weeks be fore the the room and runs on a uni­st.udnnts and l'ae­Academic factored into the University's Vernal Equinox that of'fieially versal eloek, so if thnre's too
was awesome here. ulty. It:., probably one of Affairs, then budget be fore it can be ushers in the spring season, much of' the wrong hormonn "Tiw consump­updated the approved. and the violence connoted by in a room after midnight or
the strongest 

tion was awn­group on the sta­Sending the senators off' on the word "brnak" itself. two, you got a litt.ln shock,"
consumption

sumP hPre," tus of the dorm a lightnr note, Sorin senator He suggested changing its White said. Snxton said. "ll's patterns we've printer pilot pro­Erik Powers and his former title to, among other things, They also proposed that probably ono of' gram, which prnsidential running mate "A Temporary Hestraining students write a one-page
seen at any

the strongost installed printers Alnc White presented a reso­Order from Our Lady." report on their vacation expe­
school."

consumption pat­in five dorms in lution to change the name of' They also objected to the riences, and that a booth with l!~rns we've soon hopes of' deter­spring break at Notre Dame prevalence of f'ake tans on pin-up eruciJ'ixes bn set up in at any school." Tracie Sexton mining whether to "Alee and Erik's Week of the campus, proposing that LaFortune so everyorw ean be S h ~~ reportn d putting a printer Awesomeness." the University line the side­sure the rooms tlwy stay in
USA Today

that ')00 copies in every dorm The pair expressed eoncern walk with foil sheets so stu­over break havn one. of' tlw Nnw York would be both about a number of issues that dents could get a tan while Times and USA Today and feasible and necessary. afTect thn University "socially, walking to elass. Contact Amanda Michaels at 800 copies of' the Chieago llarris said he was told physically, emotionally and Also in question was the amichael@nd.edu 
Cun versity 0 f notre dame 

Bomber had sketch of 
0 
JUNE 20 -AUGUST 5, 2005 

Grand Central Station 
anthropology The 2005 summer session will begin on 
·­
architecture Monday, June 20 (enrollment), and end on 
Associated Press identil'y. But an analysis found
(J) 
art Friday, August 5 (final exams). Some courses­
no indication of a terrorism

biology 
primarily in science and languages-will begin 
NEW YOHK -A crude plot, and authorities quickly
business 
and end before or after these dates. The 
sketch of Grand Central decided there was no need to
(J) 
chemistry 
Summer Session Bulletin contains complete 
Terminal was found at the alert the public, he said.
classical languages schedule information. The Bulletin is available 
home of a suspect in the "We didn't see it as a
computer applications 
at the Summer Session Office ( 111 Earth 
Madrid train bombings, but threatening piece of informa­
(]) 
east asian languages 
Sciences Bldg.) beginning on Monday, February 
was not considered cause l'or tion," he said.
economics 
28. Information on summer courses, as it appears 
alarm, Nnw York City's police On Wndnesday at Grand
engineering 
in the Bulletin, is also available at the Summer 
(J) 
commissioner said Central. security appeared to
english 
Session Web site (www.nd.edu/-sumsess). 
Wednesday. be at a high level as usual,
film 
The one-page, hand-drawn with National Guardsmen, law
french 
Notre Dame continuing students-undergraduate 
document "was a very basic enforcement officers carrying
german 
and graduate students in residence during the 
L.. 
schematic," Commissioner machine guns, and bomb­
history 
spring semester of 2005 who are eligible to 
Haymond Kelly said. "It's not snifling dogs.
irish studies 
return in the fall-must use Web Registration 
an operational plan. It's not ''I'm used to this," said
italian 
E (]) 
(1) to register for summer courses and (2) to 
something that would indieate Elaine Weaver, a tourist from
mathematics 
add or drop courses according to the add 
an immediate threat." England who was passing
music 
and drop dates specific to each course. The Web 
The Spanish newspaper El through the station. "We're
philosophy 
Registration PIN (personal identification number) 
Mundo reported that the used to bomb scares evnry­
physics for summer is available on insideND for all 
drawing and other data were where. So you're careful but
political science on a computer disk seized it doesn't deter me." 
E 
continuing students. Instructions for course sociology registration (selection) are available at 
psychology 
about two weeks after the Thn NYPD's intelligenee 
train bombings in Madrid that division studied the bombings
spanish http://registrar.nd.edu. Course reference 
.killed 191 people on March in Madrid as a possible tem­11, 2004. Spanish police plate for a New York attack. 
theatre numbers (CRNs) are published in the Bulletin 
theology and at the Summer Session Web site. 
turned the disk over to tho The departmnnt responded by 


:J 
Web Registration will be available for summer registration from Wednesday. March 16, through the add and drop dates specific to each course. Students may register or 
make schedule changes whenever they choose during this period; no appointment times are necessary.
(J) 
Air-conditioned and non-air-conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be available. Forms for these services may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. Students may also apply for summer housing online at www.nd.edu/-sumsess 
FBI and CIA in December. 
Kelly said the data -found on the disk of a laptop com­puter -was also shared with the New York Poliee Department's counterterror­ism division and city transit off'icials, who concluded the sketch depicted Grand Central. 
tightening security in the sub­ways and at train stations. Those measurns were in place long before the city rncnived word of the sketch. 
"This is not something I think people should be pan­icked about or worried about," Mayor Michael Bloomberg said. "We took the 

The material also ineluded appropriate steps and we do
Tuition for the summer session of 2005 will be $565 per credit hour for undergraduate 
photographs, and a drawing not think that in that particu­
students and $302 per credit hour for graduate students, plus a $50 general fee. 
of a private building in the lar case there was a rnal plan city, which Kelly refused to to attack Grand Central." 
•• :0 I IS9i:: ,;~I' ' Xlll!lll.l '1 ::I Ct •l r (;19.JBIIn'· ,;,; l. 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, March 3, 2005 
Airport 
continued from page 1 
ENGLAND 




Ban on Muslim dress ruled violation of rights 
Associated Press 
LONDON -A school violated a student's human rights by ban­ning her from wearing a tradi­tional Muslim gown to class, a British court ruled Wednesday, ending a more than two-year legal battle. 
Assimilating Muslim students is a sensitive political issue in Europe, especially in France, which last year banned "con­spicuous religious symbols" such as head scarves from state schools. Britain allows individual schools to decide what form of dress is appropriate. 
Shabina Begum, now 16, was sent home from school in Luton, north of London, in September 2002 for wearing the jilbab, a long, flowing gown covering all her body except her hands and face. 
She first went to the High Court, arguing that the ban breached her right to religious freedom under the European Convention on Human Rights. 
The court rejected that argu­ment in June. But on Wednesday a panel of three Court of Appeal judges ruled that Begum had been illegally excluded from the school, which "unlawfully denied her the right to manifest her reli­gion." 
The teenager was represented in her high-profile appeal by Cherie Booth, wife of Prime Minister Tony lllair. 
Muslim leaders welcomed the ruling that Denbigh High School had breached Begum's right to freedom of religion. The school said it was trying to respect the views of all its students -and balance competing views of what is "appropriate" Muslim attire. 
Begum, who now attends a school that allows her to wear the jilbab, said the ruling was "a victory for all Muslims who wish to preserve their identity and values despite prejudice and big­otry." 
"It is amazing that in the so­called free world I have to fight to wear this attire," she said. 
Four-fifths of Denbigh High's students are Muslims, and the school said its ban on the jilbab had the support of many stu­dents and parents, who looked to the school to protect children from the influence of religious extremists. 
The school argued that the jil­bab posed a health and safety risk, and might cause divisions among pupils, with those who wore traditional dress being seen as "better Muslims" than others. Pupils are allowed to wear trousers, skirts or a tradi­tional shalwar kameez, consist­ing of trousers and a tunic, and female pupils may wear head scarves. 
EGYPT 

Australian archaeologists discover tnutntny 
ever, reported the president will arrive at the airport at 2:25 p.m., speak at the JACC at 4:45 
p.m. and depart South Bend at 6:20p.m. 
According to Schalliol, the air­port will not miss any flights, and the maximum delays will last for just 15 minutes. 
"But we have those kinds of delays anyway, so it's not a prob­lem," he said. 
Schalliol did not expect major travel difficulties. 
"There should be no serious ramifications," Schalliol said, explaining that these measures were standard procedure when a President travels by plane. 
Schalliol could not comment on further details regarding the trip. 
"There are a lot of things going on with the airport staff, securi­ty, the Secret Service," he said. "But nothing that affects anyone else or the traveling public." 
Many Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students flying out of South Bend on Friday are con­cerned about their travel arrangements. 
"It kind of annoys me," fresh­man Betsy Keough said. "It's just the anxiety of the possibility [of problems]." 
Keough, who is scheduled on a 
7:30 p.m. flight to Atlanta, said she has been checking the Delta Web site frequently for any updates. 
Sophomore Stacy Fredrich, scheduled on a 3:30 p.m. flight to Orlando, agreed with Keough. 
"That would be kind of annoy­ing, but it's Bush, so what can you do," Fredrich said. 
Students also said they were confused and had no idea what would happen o:g Friday. 
"I have no idea what's going on," said Darrin Albers, a junior who will be flying out on a char­ter plane Friday afternoon with a small portion of the band on the women's Big East trip. 
Similarly, freshman Antoinette Bronesky said, ''I'm not sure what to expect, since we don't really know the details about Bush's visit. I don't know how it will affect me." 
Bronesky, scheduled on a 6:40 
p.m. flight to Cincinnati, said she didn't think she could change her plans at this point. 
"I heard today that the airport already knew [about Bush], so there aren't flights scheduled while he's here, but I don't know ifthat's true," she said. 
Saint Mary's students received an e-mail yesterday from vice president of Student Affairs Linda Timm warning about traf­fic disruptions and urging them to plan ahead and check their departure times in advance. 
"I know the roads are going to be closed, and I will leave earli­er," junior Cristina Ortega said. 
Ortega said she would not switch her Friday morning flight to Texas unless the airport called to say there would be major delays. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at 
mhannal@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
SAQQARA -Archaeologists uncovered three coffins and a remarkably well-preserved mummy in a 2,500-year old tomb discovered by accident -after opening a secret door hidden behind a statue in a separate burial chamber, Egypt's chief archaeologist said Wednesday. 
The Australian team was exploring a much older tomb -dating back 4,200 years ­belonging to a man believed to have been a tutor to the 6th Dynasty King Pepi II, when they moved a pair of statues and discovered the door, said Zahi Hawass, Egypt's top antiquities official. 
Inside, they found a tomb 
from the 26th Dynasty with 
three intricate coffins, each 
with a mummy. 
"Inside one coffin was 
maybe one of the best mum­
mies ever preserved," Hawass 
told reporters at the excava­
tion site in the cemetery of 
Saqqara, a barren hillside 
pocked with ancient graves ·about 15 miles south of Cairo. 
"The chest of the mummy is 
covered with beads. Most of 
the mummies of this period ­
about 500 B.C. -the beads 
are completely gone, but this 
mummy has them all," he 
said, standing over one of the 
mummies that was swathed in 
turquoise blue beads and bound in strips of black linen. 
The names of the mummies have not been determined, but the tomb is thought to be that of a middle-class official. 
I-lawass said the wooden coffins, called anthropoids because they were in the shape of human beings, bore inscriptions dating to the 26th Dynasty, together with a stat­ue of a deity called Petah Sakar. Petah was the god of artisans, Hawass said, while Sakar was the god of the cemetery. 
The door was hidden behind 4,200-year-old statues of a man believed to have been Meri, the tutor of Pepi II, and Meri's wife, whose name was 
not revealed. 
Meri also was believed to 
oversee four sacred boats 
found in the pyramids, which 
were buried with Egypt's kings 
to help them in the afterlife, 
Hawass said. 
"I believe this discovery can 

enrich us about two important periods in our history, the Old Kingdom, which dates back to 4,200 years, and the 26th · Dynasty, that was 2,500 years 
ago," Hawass said. 
According to tradition, Pepi 
II -the last ruler of the 6th 
Dynasty -ruled from 2278­
2184 B.C., one of the longest 
reigns in ancient Egyptian his­
tory. 

Lottery 
continued from page 1 
"I think it might be the only chance for tne to hear the pres­ident speak," said junior Mark Cartoski. "[It's] an important time in history. I'd like to be a part of it however possible." 
Some students have delayed their spring break plans due to the President's visit. 
"I personally am driving to Florida Friday and our carpool has decided to wait until after Bush speaks, providing some of us win tickets, to leave," Coleman said. "I have heard some of the same reactions from people eager to hear him speak and from people who are going to protest." 
Students received a ticket stub from the lottery distribu­tion. The 100 winning num­bers were posted on the door of the SUB office in 201 LaFortune Wednesday evening. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 


The College ofArts and Letters invites Student Nominations for 
Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Each year Kaneb Teaching Awards recognize approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have taught at least five years are eligible. 
Take advantage of this opportunity to have a voice in the selection of these recipients by nominating one ofyour outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 
Hugh Page, Associate Dean 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Friday, March 18, 2005 
Welcome to Paradise! 
• 
Pre-leasing for the 2005-2006 school year 

•Studios 
and 1 and 2 bedroom apartments (574)272-8124 


ask Sherry for details www.aimco.com 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 3, 2005 CoMPILED FROM Tt..IE OBsERVER's WIRE SERvrcEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Palestinian leader Abbas visits EU 
BHUSSHI.S, Bnlgiurn -Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas told the Europnan Union on Wndnnsday that hn wants Palnstinian state­hood "as soon as possible." 
Abbas was making his first visit to EU lwadquartnrs to drum up support from tho 25-nation blo!'. for his rnforms to pmparn for statehood. "We will rontinue to work for this as soon as possible," he said. 
/\skPd wlwn thn l'alnstinians might get statPiwod, EU foreign policy chief' .Javier Solana said: "Tiw soonnr the bolter." 
Abbas on Tw~sday attended an internation­al confPreru:n on tlw Middle East in London, wlwrn lw pledged to improve thn Palestinian Authority's security snrvkes, a key demand of lsntPI and world donors. 
Thn I·:U has given millions of' dollars to ba!'.k thn building of' government institutions. 
Workers for the tribunal killed 
B/\GIIIl/\ll. Iraq -(;unnwn killed a judge and lawyer working for tlw tribunal that will try Saddam II ussPin and nwmlwrs of' his f'or­lllPr rPginrn. a day afl!~r tlw snen~t eourt n~f'Prrnd livP of' tlw oustnd dietator's aidns to lrial for alll'gPd crinH'S against humanity, oflil'ials and a rnlatiw of' tlw slain men said WPdrwsday. 
News of' tlw deaths <:amn as two car bombs Pxplodpd in llw capital, killing I 0 Iraqi sol­dilws and wounding doznns of otht~rs. Thn l'irst blast targ1~ted an Iraqi army basn in contra( Baghdad, killing six troops and wounding at lnast 25. ;\ sneond car bomb an hour later at an army chnekpoint in south Baghdad killed four soldiers, polien said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Court considers Commandments 
W/\SIIINGTON -Tho Suprmne Court is eonsidnring whether Ten Commandments displays on govnrnnHmt property uncon­stitutionally entangle ehurch and state, a cultural battle that has splintered lower courts for morn than two decades. 
Justices were hearing arguments Wednesday in two eases involving dis­plays in Texas and Kentucky. It is the first timn ·sincn I<JSO the high court is tackling thn nmotional issue, in a courtroom boast­ing a wall carving of Moses holding the saernd tablets. 
Tnn Cornmandmonts monuments are common in town squares, courthouses and otlwr governmnnt-owned land around thn country. At issue is whether they vio­latn tlw First Amendment ban on any law "rnspnding an ostablishment of' religion," or simply represent a secular tribute to /\nwriea's legal lwrilage. 
BTK suspect charged with 10 counts 
WIC:IIIT/\, Kan. -As Dnnnis Hader was formally 1·.harged with I 0 counts of' first­dngree murder in the BTK serial killings, invnstigators usml metal detectors to search fi1r new evidenee along suburban roads. 
Slwrifl' (;ary Steed said the search in Park City was sparked by nnw information from tho task forcn invnstigating the serial killings. lie deelined to elaborate. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Tensions increase in the House 
INDIAN/\POI.IS -Partisan tensions ran high in tlu~ Indiana I louse on Tuesday with represen­tatives li.u:ing a midnight deadline to keep sever­al bills alive, including ones to mandate statewide observance of daylight-saving time and ).,rive thn governor's inspector general prose­cutorial pownrs. 
The Hepublican-eontrolled llouse convened shortly aftnr <J a.m. EST, but Demoeral'> upset about several bills they consider partisan power ~-trabs tell tho floor to meet privately. 
Financing flaws need attention 
Greenspan wants the financial issues in Social Security and Medicare mended 
Associated Press 
W/\SIIINGTON -Fe­deral Hnserve Chairman Alan Greenspan urged Congress Wndnesday to move quiekly to fix the financing problems in Social Security arid Medicare, arguing that dnlay will only make the country's budgetary prob­lems morn severe. 
Greenspan again end1irsed the key part of Presidont Bush's Soeial Security overhaul to set up private accounts, but he stressed that mueh more noeded to be donn to put the giant rntinmwnt program and Mndicarn, which he said l'acod ovnn more severn financial strains, on a more sound footing. 
Whilo saying that Congross should movn quiekly to consider possi­ble benefit cuts for Social Security and Medicare bel'orn the baby boomers begin retiring, Greenspan, as hn did a month ago, urged a go-slow approach to setting up Bush's pro­posed private aecounts. 
The administration esti­mates those accounts will require about $745 billion in new borrowing over the next deeade. Greenspan said it is difficult to judge what impact that Greenspan warned that and when you have a lot aecounts by divnrting up increased borrowing will every year of delay would of people who say there's to 4 percentage points of have on financial markets make fixing the problem no problem." payroll taxes into the new and for that reason, the harder, especially after In his testimony aeeounts. government should move the baby boomers begin Wednesday, Greenspan Diverting the payroll cautiously to keep from retiring. repeated a warning he taxes into the Social triggering higher interest Bush's proposal for pri­first made a year ago, say­Sceurity trust fund, he rates. vate accounts has proved ing he believed the gov­said, had merely allowed 
"I think it is very impor­to be a hard sell. ernment had promised the government to run tant that you move gradu­"This is the mother of all more than it could deliver larger budget del'ieits. ally and see what the issues," House Majority to the 78 million baby Greenspan said that response is," Greenspan Leader Tom DeLay said boomers now approaching switching to the private said. Tuesday, as Hepubliean retirement and saying that accounts would be a way 
Ile said it is entirely pos­congressional leaders eon­cuts in benefits would to bolster the nation's low sible that the impact on ceded that they may not have to be considered. savings rate. interest rates will be be able to win congres­"If existing promises In his prepared testimo­"zero," but he said sinee sional approval of it this need to be changed, those ny, Greenspan did not that can't be forecast with year. changes should be made repeat the cautionary total confidence "cautious Senate Majority Leader sooner rather than later," message he sent last and gradual" was the best Bill Frist said Bush will he told the House Budget month: Creation of the approaeh. have to take a lead in Committee. accounts should be donn 
Bolstoring the adminis­building support for pri­Greenspan reiterated slowly to gauge the impact tration's drive to get a vate aeeounts, especially that he supports President the increased borrowing Social Security reform bill "when a lot of politiealfig­Bush's push for setting up that will be nnoded will enaetod this year, ures want to run and hide personal retirement have on linandal markets. 

ISRAEL 
Gaza settlements could create jobs 
packed into the narrow coastal strip. United Nations put unemployment in Associated Press 
Luxury items such as flowers and Gaza at more than 22 pereent. 
strawberries would be exported, A USAID off1eial in Tel Aviv said 
JEHUS/\LEM -Israel is negotiat­mainly to the European Union. 3,000 Palestinians were working in ing to hand over greenhouses in Gaza "Israel is negotiating now with settlement greenhouses and turning settlements to Palestinians after its America and with others, with the them over to Palestinian ownership planned withdrawal in the summer, international community, to leave all could create a further 7,000 jobs. an offieial said Wednesday, and the the infrastructure of the greenhouses With eaeh Gaza laborer supporting military scrapped a contentious plan to the Palestinians through a third about eight other people, that could to dig a deep, wide moat along the party," Bassi said, without giving fur­help an estimated 63,000 people. Gaza-Egypt border. ther details. Bassi also said all the residents of 
Yonatan Bassi, head of Israel's A study published last year by the the largest Gaza settlement, Neve Disengagement Authority, told United Nations and the United States Dekalim, could move to Nitzan, a reporters that peppers and tomatoes Agency for International Development failed community between Ashdod grown in the greenhouses could help said seven out of 10 Palestinians were and Ashkelon on Israel's southern feed the 1.3 million Palestinians living on insufficient food, and the coastline. 
r--------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 3, 2005 
Grants 
continued from page I 
a! studies. 
According to Bonnie Bazata, director of community connections for CWIL, this is the first time a grant has been offered specifically tailored for projects within the Michiana area. "One of the outcomes is we will have deepened our relationship with our community, and the com­munity will have a deeper knowl­edge of the College," Bazata said. 
Six proposals submitted since the start of the semester have already been accepted and are underway, and six more are "in the pipelines," Bazata said. Sanchez is the student organizer for one of the projects already begun. She was approached in the fall by political science professor Marc Belanger and Jesusa Rodriguez, director of "Imagen Latina," about contributing to the show. 
The program, which airs Thursday and Sunday afternoons at 
5:30 p.m. on Comcast channel 99, is targeted at the local Hispanic population and has a viewing capacity of 880,000 people. Content includes practical information such as changes in immigration laws and how to survive the cold weath­er. 
"It was bridging with the commu­nity and I had been looking for a way to work with the community," Sanchez said. 
Sanchez seized the "Imagen Latina" opportunity, for which her CWIL grant provided $2500 to pur­chase production equipment. Once her project is done, the equipment will belong to the College. 
She called the grant opportunity "phenomenal" and said the experi­ence she is gaining is invaluable. As part of her work with the television program, she recently presented a grant proposal to the South Bend mayoral otlice that was promptly approved. 
"The types of skills we are learn­ing are basically untouchable," said Sanchez, and said that this knowl­edge can't be found for undergrad­uate students anywhere else. 
Sanchez added that the people in the community she has met through her work with "Imagen Latina" have been "inspirational and motivating." The first Saint Mary's student-produced segment airs today. 
Communications professor Susan Latham was told that her bridging grant proposal on communicative disorders had been approved Tuesday. 

Working with Saint Mary's stu­dents in the communications and social work departments, Latham is launching a program to educate local parents on communication development. 
"The goal of this program is to provide training to important peo­ple in the child's life so they can provide language training through­out the day," said Latham. 
The program will be based at St. Joe's Health Center, also know as the Chapin Street Clinic, but will include house visits. 
The departments "give (the stu­dents) a wonderful opportunity to work in schools and in hospitals ... but what is always missing is the parents' perspective," said Latham. 
Latham and participating stu­dents are using connections the social work program already has with students in the community to enter homes and assess the needs of parents, she said. 
Bazata said these programs are proof that the grant will bring many more original project propos­als to CWIL and the community than she could develop alone. ''I'm thrilled [with the proposals so far]," she said. "[They are] far more creative than I could come up with just sitting here." The proposal must include, among other things, an inter-cultural aspect, and must be based in Michiana. 
"We are looking for a creative idea, committed partners and something feasible within the time frame [of the school year]," she said. 
According to Bazata, the project idea usually starts with one individ­ual who must then approach poten­tial partners. 
"It has to be triangulated," Bazata said. "There has to be a stu­dent involved, there has to a faculty member involved and there has to be a community member involved." 
Once the project is completed, participants are expected to reflect on the experience and then share it with others, Bazata said. 
'They have to submit a written report," she said, "and we encour­age them to do some sort of other sharing with the Saint Mary's com­munity." 
CWIL also provides a retreat at the end of the year so those who worked on projects can meet and interact with one another. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 


Scholastic 
is taking applications for 
Business Manager 
Commission paid for advertising 
e-mail Scholast@nd.edu 


Panel 
continued from page I 
evidence in American courts. 
"The numbers [of convicts] on death row are dropping," he said. "We're not sure who is innocent and who is guilty anymore." 
Bill Pelke, whose grand­mother was murdered, then spoke on his personal expe­riences with the issue. In 1985, Pelke's grandmother was stabbed 33 times when a group of high school girls entered her home under the pretense of seeking Bible lessons, Leahy explained. One of the girls, Paula Cooper, was 15 years old at the time of the murder. At 16, she became the youngest death row inmate in the United States. , 
"About three and a half months after she was sen­tenced, I began to reflect on my grandmother's life and death. My mind went back to the co'urtroom on the day that Paula Cooper had been sentenced to death," Pelke said. "As the judge sen­tenced her, he said that he hoped that someday soon the American public would have its fill of the death penalty." 
Pelke described his reflec­tions about his grandmother and her killer. 
"I thought about my grandmother's Christian faith. I thought of my grand­mother and tried to pray for God to give me compassion for Paula Cooper," he said. "I no longer wanted her to die. I learned the most important lesson in life that night: the lesson of the healing power of forgiveness." 
Pelke went on to found Journey of Hope, an organi­zation of murder victims' 

I uesday, 3/15 
family members committed to promoting forgiveness and abolishing the death penalty. He is also the presi­dent of the board of direc­tors of the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty and sits on the board of directors of Murder Victims' Families for Human Rights. 
The third speaker, Madison Hobley, said he sur­vived a fire that killed his wife, son and five others ­only to be arrested and tor­tured by four Chicago police officers. The policemen went on to provide the testimony that led to Hobley's convic­tion for the fire and his sub­sequent death sentence. Hobley spent three years in prison and 14 years on death row until Illinois professor emeritus of law, was the evening's final speaker and spoke about law and Catholic teaching. He has published extensively in the areas of natural law, abortion jurisprudenc.e and Catholic morality and the law. 
"I formerly supported the death penalty for pro-life reasons because I regarded the infliction of the death penalty for murder as the proper stigmatization of murder, so as to create a cli­mate in which murder would be reduced," he said. "My opinion has since changed." 
Rice described Catholic teaching on the death penal­ty. He explained that the state does have the authority to impose the death penalty, 
Governor but that Pope
"/thought ofmy
George Ryan John Paul II
grandmother and
pardoned him has sharply in 2003. tried to pray for God restricted the 
"It is sad moral power
to give me 
that we put of the state to · 
compassion for Paula 
our trust in use such a police who Cooper. I no longer punishment. would sacri­wanted her to die., "The main 
fice a person focus is the like me for conversion of 
Bill Pelke
the color of the sinner. my skin and president The state has execute me National Coalition to the moral 
for a crime I authority to
Abolish the Death Penalty
did not com­mit," Hobley said. • 
Hobley de-scribed the sub­human conditions of death row, in which inmates reside in tiny cells, are chained at all times and are forbidden communication with anyone. 
"If you had experienced what I did, I don't think you would be pro-death penalty. There is no doubt that we need prison, because many inmates were guilty of crimes, but I also learned that they are human beings," he said. 
Charles Rice, Notre Dame use the death 
penalty only when it is absolutely neces­sary to protect other lives from this guy," Rice said. 
He noted that it is difficult to imagine a situation in contemporary America that would necessitate infliction of the death penalty. 
"Support for the death penalty is a symptom of a broader cultural problem in which the infliction of death is looked at as a problem­solving approach," Rice said. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 
Sujeet Desai will be playing the violin, clarinet and piano. He graduated from the Berkshire Music Academy and was born with Down syndrome. 7p.m. Washington Hall, Free Admission 
Saturday, 3/19 Come to the Best Buddies Friendship Games and interact with children and adults with special needs. 12 noon-2p.m. Logan Center Gym 
Monday, 3/21 Head Football Coach Charlie We is, 9p.m. DeBartolo 102 Coach Weis will be speaking about disability awareness. 
Tuesday, 3/29 Students with Disabilities Discussion, 8p.m. Legends 
www.nd.edu/-bbuddies 


Notre Dame Disability Awareness Month 
March 2005 

THE OBSERVER 




·usiNESS

Thursday, March 3, 200'5 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,811.97 -18.03

}ones 
Up: Some: Down: Composite Volume: 1,515 185 V.!;f 1,567,437,056 

AMEX I,515.78 +6.34 NASDAQ 2,067.50 -3.75 NYSE 7,343.14 -7.X9 s&PSOO 1,210.08 -0.33 NIKKEI(Tokyo) I I , 8 I 3. 7 I 0.00 fTSf IOO(London) 4,992.XO -7.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDt>Q IOOTRSERI(QQQQ) -0.05 -0.02 37.61 SIRIUS SATELITTE R (SIRI) +0.51 +0.03 5.92 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.41 -0.10 24.52 MICROSOFT CP (MSFl) -0.08 -0.02 25.26 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) + 1.37 +0.24 17.74 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND "+0.34 +0.16 47.37 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.16 +0.07 43.79 5-YEAR NOTE -0.35 -0.14 39.94 3-MONTH BILL -0.56 -0. IS 26.77 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.37 53.05 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.10 433.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.05 89.38 
Excha Rates 

YEN 104.7400 EURO 0.7610 POUND 0.5226 CANADIAN$ 1.2393 
IN BRIEF 
Chiron resumes making flu vaccine 
NEW YOHK -British re!-{ulators gave tho go­ahead Wednnsday filr Chiron Corp. to rnsume pro­duction of flu va1~eine. nrHiing a five-month sus­pension that caused widnsprnad short.agns in th1~ Unitcld States. 
The mmpany said it plans to bngin production imnwdiately in anticipation of gtltting dnaranen lhnn the U.S. Food and Drug Administration so it ran have vac~dne available for tho flu season start­ing this fidl. 
In October, Britain's Mndidnos and llealthcarn l'rodurl<; Hngulatory Agency IMIIH.Al barrnd the t·:nwryvilln, Calif.-b<L<;NI company from shipping to tho llnitnd States sonw 48 million doses of its Fluvirin-brandnd flu rnndieine made in its Liverpool. t·:ngland fiu:tory bncausn of contamina­tion I'Onenrns. 
Chiron had bonn expected to supply nnarly half" the U.S. vaceinn supply for tho llu season. Tho rnsulting shortage prompted U.S. health oflkials to put rPstridions on who wa<; eligible lilr flu shoL<;. ThosP mstrktions wnnl latnr na<;nd 
Mall changes gift card policies 
ALBANY, N.Y. -The nation's largest shopping mall chain on Tuesday agrnnd to chango il<; poli­dns nlgarding gill eards that Nnw York Attorney (;nnnral tmot Spitznr callml misleading and eostly lilr consunwrs. 
lndianapolis-b<L<;nd Simon Property Group lne. snttlnd Spitzer's ease lilr $125,000 in pnnaltins and eosb of the invnstigation. Similar legal battles in M<L<;sadtusnll<;, New llampshirn and Connecticut eontinun, said Spitzer spokeswoman Christine Pritdmrd. 
Tlw snttlnmnnt eomns before New York con­sumnrs would liu~n a $2.50 monthly "administra­tive 1\\e" beginning May 18. 
Simon agrnnd not to charge the fee unless thn ~,rill mrd has bmm unusc\d filr 12 straight months, Spitznr said. Simon also a).,>Tnnd to disdosn on the gift mrd thn $5 fi1e it charges to replaen a card and tho $7.50 fil<l it charges to rnissun an expired card. The prominnnt disdosurn is roquirod by statn law. 
"This sdtlenwnt meo).,•nizns that consumers are nntitlml to rocnivn the full protndion or the law with rngard to monthly fens and important disdosures about gift card tnrms and condi­tions," Spitzer said. 
Prosecutors analyze corruption 
WorldCom's Bernard Ebbers' c01nbination of money and po,wer led to fraud 
Associated l'ress 
NEW YOBK -Money, power and prnssure eom­bined to form a "pnrfnd. storm of corruption" that lnd one-limn WorldCom lne. ehicll" Bernard Ebbnrs to commit an $11 billion aeeounting fraud, a fnderal prosneutor said Wndnosday in closing argumnnts. 
Prosncutor William Johnson said Ebbers~ wor­riod about repaying multi­million-dollar loans that were backnd by WorldCorn stock. ordered his subordi­nates to cover up exponsns and inflatn earnings. 
Evon whnn former finanen chief Scott Sullivan warnnd Ebbnrs it would be wrong to cook the books, "1\bbnrs commanded Sullivan to do it anyway," and thnn lied to the public about it, Johnson said. 
"WorldCom had truly bneome World-con," the proseeutor said. "He lied over and ovor again. All of' his lies wore criminal." 
Johnson said Ebbers had the biggnst motive of any­one at WorldCom to cook tho books -and was the only person with the authority to control it. 

"lie was WorldCom, and WorldCom was Ebbors," Johnson said. "lie built this company. lie ran it. Of Sullivan, who testified as fraud was under way. othnr expenses in tho doc­eourse he directed this the star prosecution wit­Ebbers was presented unwnt, sueh as adminis­fraud." ness, claimed Ebbers pres­with a WorldCom budgnt trative eosts. 
The defense rested its sured him into committing report that showed so­Ebbers is eharged with ease earlier Wednesday the fraud. He said he called line ecist expenses at fraud, conspiracy and after t.wo days in whieh repeatedly told Ebbers it $732 million in September making falsn filings to the Ebbers took the witness was wrong, but Ebbers 2000, only half the $1.4 Soeuritios and Exchange stand ·and denind any role insisted that WorldCom billion budgoted by tho Commission. The eharges in tho fraud, saying he must "hit our numbers." company. carry up to X5 ynars in only learned about it aftm Prosecutors say the The report was doe­prison. he resigned after remark was an indication tored, reflecting adjust­Sullivan, who testif"ind WorldCom in April 2002. that Ebbers, worried about ments made by WorldCom for the government earlier 
Tho 63-yoar-old e~-CEO $400 million in personal aceountants to cover up in tho easn, daims Ebbers claimed on Monday that loans that were baeked by line costs that wnrn much was obsessed with hitting Sullivan never told him his WorldCom stock, was higher that summer than Wall Stroot earnings and about tho huge adjust­desperatB for the company the company expected. nwnnue targets and pres­ments WorldCom account­to meet WaJI Stroet osti­Fodera! prosecutor sured him nach quartnr ants wore making to matns. David Anders asked into committing tho fraud. inflate earnings and hide In a daylong cross-exam­Ebbers whether ho noticed Tho former finance chief out-of-control expenses. ination Tuesday. Ebbers tho gap. said Ebbers attended a 
"He's never told me hB said he "just didn't see" "If I would havB noticed meeting during tlw spring made an entry that wasn't glaring irregularities in that, we would not be hem of 2001 in Ashburn. Va.. in right," Ebbers said. "If he internal financial papers today," Ebbnrs responded. whieh he was told that. linn had, we wouldn't be here that he reviewed while tho The former CEO said he eosts wore spiraling out of today." company's $11 billion paid more attention to eontrol. 

Disabled workers see decline in pay 
Take-home pay is less than half that of said.
Associated Press 

a year ago, said worker Jim Benedum. "We are not losing customers becausn 
MUNCIE, Ind. -Disabled workers "Before, we were going like gang­we are providing bad snrvices; wn arn employed by a specialized shop that busters," Benedum told The Star Press losing customers because tho companies depends on eontrael<> with local manu­for a Wednesday story. "Now, it has we have eontrael<> with arn eithnr mov­facturers have seen their pay clodine as slowed down dramatically, and that hil<> ing out or doing away with loeal busi­the amount of work has dwindled, om­me in the wallet." ness commitmnnl<>," said Bolser, adding dais said. Hillcroft has for 50 years sought work that sheltornd workshops in othnr eorn­
More than 180 workers at llillcroft for disabled clients who also receive munities laced the same problems. Service's Cannon Industries' sheltered Medicaid and Social Seeurity benefits. One of the largest contracts lnf't at workshop have only about hall' tho work As many as 500 dients work in oul'iide Cannon Industries is with Artista, a today a<> they had a year ago, said Clint businesses, but the rest are employed in company that provides gift wrap for Bolser, llilkroft's exeeutivo director. The the highly supervised, sheltered work Victoria's Secret stores nationwide. workers still split assignments 180 environment for the seven months from Folding pink tissue paper is dnannr ways, but al<>o must divide the declining July 2003 through January 2004, work than loading kil<; for a<;sombly line payroll. Cannon's contracl<> totaled $770,000. A workers at manufacturing plants, 
The decline ean be directly linked to year later for the same seven-month Bonodum said. But he misses tlw fatter the loss of manufaeturing jobs in oast­period that ended this January, con­payehncks that came with a<;snmbly linn enntral Indiana, Hilkroft oflicials said. tracts totaled only $385,000, Bolser work. 
Tl..-IE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, March 3, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Risking Notre Dame's reputation
The lruU.pnulnt, Daily Nn1•spaper Sn-t~ing NDtrr! Dame and Saint MaryS 
1~0. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINFSS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie rranklin 
An Dr,siGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Nlen 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: jim Coulter 
CONTROLU:R: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(5i4) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY's DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of rhe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor in Chief; Managing Editor, A~sistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer., 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer polides should be directed to Fditor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tiu: Obscrvrr (USPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday through C:riday ex<:ept during c:um ;uid vacation pc:ril;Jd~. Asubscriptu•n toTiu: Obscrv~r is $100 for one acadc:rnk ye;tr; $55 filt one sem~cr. 
The ObM"rYcr i! published at; POSTMA!>TER 
024 Somh Dining Hall Send .u:ldress cor~dons co: 
Notre Dame, IN 46'556·0779 Thc:Ohs;crver 
Ptriodical p(1stagc paid Jt None Dmte P.O. Box 779 
and additi1mal mailing offic~. 024 Sowh Dining I f.dl 
Norre Dam,, IN 46556-0779 
lbe OhsC'tVC'r i~ a memher ofthe: Associated Pres~~. All reproduction rights are tr:scrvcd. 
In retrospect, it is clear that the Queer Film Festival and The Vagina · Monologues were not what they claimed to be. My concern is with the judgment of our leaders in permitting these 
events again at Notre Charles Dame. These com-Rice ments, therefore, raise no issues relat­Right or ing to the students Wrong? involved. 
Liam Dacey, director of the Queer Film Festival, said "The theme ... was ... not a promotion of [a] gay agenda." The "gay agenda," however, is to legitimize homosexual activity as a mainstream lifestyle. The presentation of films that support that objective at a Catholic uni­versity serves that "gay agenda." Due to space limits, discussion of that will wait for another day. 
With respect to The Vagina Mono­logues, it claims to promote awareness of the problem of violence against women. The Vagina Monologues, how­ever, is so inconsistent with that pur­pose that it could almost qualify as a spoof. In two ways, the play itself pro­motes violence against women. First, the proceeds of The Vagina Monologues went to Sex Offense Services, the rape­crisis center and to the St. Joseph County YWCA. Both entities provide information on abortion access to preg­nant women. Abortion is an act of vio­lence, in which about half of the victims who are killed are women. 
Second, in its content, The Vagina Monologues promotes violence against women by glorifying the depersonaliza­tion that contributes to such violence. The human person, as Pope John Paul II put it, is a "unified totality" of body and spiritual soul. The Vagina Monologues fragments that unity of the woman's person in two ways, by per­sonalizing a part of her body and by identifying the woman herself with that body part. 

Various monologues present the vagi­na as an entity with which the woman can, and should, establish a "conscious relationship." I spare the reader the abundant details I believe it-you should thank me). The monologues include such literary gems as, "If your vagina got dressed, what would it wear?" and "If your vagina could talk, what would it say, in two words?" One monologue recounts a group masturba­tion in a workshop run by "a woman who believes in vaginas." This intro­duces the Notre Dame community to the concept of organolatry, the deification of a body part. The decisive moment in that monologue came when the work­shop participant thought, "I didn't have to lind it. I had to be it. Be it. Be my eli­loris. Be my clitoris .... My vagina, my vagina, me." There, the person is redueed to, and equated to, her body part. This fragmentation and objeetili­eation of the person facilitates violence against women. 
The Vagina Monologues includes a monologue, "The Little Coochi Snoreher That Could," a detailed recounting of the lesbian seduction of a 16-year-old by a 24-year-old. This seduction is described by the victim as "my ... salva­tion." This monologue is abominable in a "Catholic" university in light of the sex abuse crisis in the American Church. The great majority of such eases involve seduction of a teen-aged boy by a homosexual priest, the mirror image of the lesbian seduction portrayed as a "salvation" for the victim in the mono­logue. 
Another monologue consists of the repeated utterance of a four-letter expletive used to describe a body part. Other monologues, I guarantee, are bet­ter left unmentioned. The intelleetual content of the text would suffer by eom­parison with the transcript of a town meeting of "Idiot Village." Maybe you have to be a politically correct academ­ics or administrator to take such mate­rial seriously. 
"Ex Corde Ecclesiae," the Apostolie Gonstitution on the Catholic University, lists, as one of the "essential character­istics" of the Catholic university: "Fidelity to the Christian message as it comes to us through the Chureh." As Bishop John D'Arcy said in his state­ment, "Ex Corde" guarantees academic freedom within thP parameters of "truth and the common good." Bishop l)'Arcy concluded that The Vagina Monologues violate not only the com­mon good but also "the truth about women; the truth about sexuality; the truth about male and female; and the truth about the human body." 
Notre Dame is subservient to the NCAA, acerediting agencies and many other entities. The one entity it will not obey is the Catholic Church, not even to the limited extent required by "Ex Corde." The University's eoncept of aca­demic freedom is no different from that at Michigan State, Stanford, etc. In short, Notre Dame's claim to be Catholic violates the principle of truth-in-label­ing. 
The effect of the Queer Film Festival and The Vagina Monologues was to hijack the reputatibn of Notre Dame in support of an agenda at war with the Catholic Chureh. Our leaders who per­mitted this repeated exploitation of Notre Dame ought to be more than embarrassed. They ought to be ashamed of themselves. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School Faculty. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be con­tacted at plawecki.l @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


IP  
('.  e  (;'  
$  $':  :-t:::  '!:'  ..,  ..  v  
0  0  (':t 0  :t!  {;.t  0  
1)  0  ""  ~  ,0  
4P  "'  ..  ..:i·  ~.~> ..  ·"  a  0  ""  j'~  .,.  .:>  
0  b  ...  "'  .,,.  c  "'  "'  
i?  II> ~~/'""-""'~t---~-·~-->  0-~  q ....  ...  <>  
¢  0  &  .,  0  
'-'  0  
__ ... ~-...,  

;I! o?'.;:.
0 
0 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Eileen Duffy Justin Schuber 
Where are you going for 

Kate Antonacci Eric Retter Jen Rowling Steve Coyer spring break? Viewpoint Scene Katherine Rowley Kenyatta Storin 
Graphics Illustrator Vote by today at 5 p.m. at Kelly MacDonald Katie Knorr www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"As long as people believe in absurdities they will continue to commit atrocities.,, 
Voltaire French philosopher 


THE 0HSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thmsday, March 3, 2005 page 9 
Experiencing Rome with the pope 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Million dollar blunder 

If you have not seen the Oscar-winning movie "Million Dollar Baby," stop reading this artide right now because I am about to blow the ending li>r you. 
Of all tho rieh layers of storyline, the one layer that olidtnd the most prolhund soul SParching on my part showed ilc;elf at the very end of the film when Frankin (Clint Eastwood) submits to Maggie's (llilary Swank) desire to rnmove her breathing tubn, thus tmding the young woman's life. Lying in a hospital bnd permanently paralyzed from the neck down aft11r a dnvast.ating boxing injury, Maggio wishes li>r death instead of living the lili1 shn has inhnrited. Frankie at first 
rnsists, but finally acquiesces. live. Her family is battling against her 
This is an oxample of' mrthana-husband in the eourl'i beeausn he sia. A'i a practicing Catholic, I wanl'i to remove the tube from havn always assnntPd to the· Teri and therefore end her life. Church's teaching on this In Tori's ease. she is unable to mattPr, whkh flows l'rom speak in order to express her the bnlinl' that human lili~ own desire in the matter, so is S<UTI1d from nmcnption the eourlc; are weighing to natural d11ath. "Million what her intention would be Dollar Baby" prompt11d by eonsidering the wishes or mn li>r p11rhaps thn first those closest to her. limn. howovnr. to doeply I thought of Tori after see­pond1•r th11 natural dnath ing the movie. I was led to 1md of tlw consistnnt othie of' ponder what value tho !-,Tift of lili1. life has when someone is 
Maggio's desire and !•rankin's brought to a state like hers. I subsequent action snnnwd to me honestly asked mysfllf, "Would it be to be ohjmtively wrong. I li>uml better to din at that point than to go on 
mysnll' with thn overwlwlming li1Piing that Maggie's vinw of lwr lilil-a view whieh was oru·p so robust and rPiatiwly nxpansive -had beconw detrinwntally narrow. l.ying on her bed unabln to mov11, Maggin r.anw to define hersnlf in t11rms of what shn had onc11 b11nn able to do ratlwr than who she was prnsnntly, even though who she was prnsently was innxtrkably conneeted to who stu~ had b1111n. Ih1r dnsirn to din was thnn, I think, a product of a radimlly incomplntl~ vision of hnrsnll'. 
fo'rankio insl.inctivnly krww that thorn was somn­thing wmng with Maggi11's dnsirn. 
Jo'r·anki11's parish priost provid11d what I thought W1L'i a wry insightful obsnrvation when he said that should l;rankin go along with Maggie's wishes, he would pnrhaps nnvnr again hi' able to lind himself. ;\s I pnrcllivnd it, Frankin violatnd his eonsdnnen by giving in to Maggi11's wishes. lin had b11nn willing and nagnr to lwlp Maggie continue on with hnr lili1 in a new way, but in the end he quieted this will and aetod in another manner. 
This issue brought to mind two real-life situa­tions -those of Christopher Heeve and Tori Schiavo. Heeve, who once played Superman, was confined to a wheelchair after an injury in 1995­paralyzed, like Maggie, from the neck down. Hather than choosing death, though, Reeve embraeed fully the new fbrm of his life. lie strug­gled through numerous medical complications and hardships, but attempted to experience the fullness of life just like anyono else. 
Tori Schiavo is the woman in Florida who 
must be fed through a tube in order to 
living in such a way'?" 
In the end, my answer was, "no," I would rhoose life, evnn if it meant living without many oftho fac­ulties that am natural to mo. 
What I witnessod in "Million Dollar Baby" has led me to beliPvn !Wnn more fully that life is precious in all il<> forms, that it should be proteeted and pro­motnd, and that the prnmaturn taking of a lifo is objeetivnly wrong. 
Ultimately, I think tho root cause of a dnsire lbr one to die prmnaturnly or to take the life of another in those situations may bn an inadnquatn view of self. Limited definitions of lili1 can lead one to acc11pt the unnatural tnrmination of it. 
Lenny DeLorenzo Institute lor Church Life Recruitmcm C:omdinaror March2 

U-WIRE 
Instant messenger lingo a-go-go 
LiveSeience.com daims a new study has found that collng11 stu­dents typing on instant messaging systems like AOI. Instant Messenger, Yahoo! Messengnr and the like are surprisingly formal. 
I would love to meet all these "formal" people hanging out online. They certainly arc not the people I usually talk to. If I only had a dollar for every time I saw "LOL" 
John Allan

on my screen. Apparently, I am quitn the comedi­an because some people I talk to just cannot seem 
Marshall

to stop laughing out loud. Tell a friend I am glad I 
University

get to actually sleep for more than eight hours and 
71w Parthenon

I might as well be David Letterman; my eorro­spondent is laughing so hard. 
Face reality: Half the time people typo "LOL" they arn not laughing out loud. Often times they probably are not laughing at all. Do you really think anybody has ever pulled an "HOFL" over an instant mes­sage'? It is pretty hard to fall out of your chair. Evm1 il' you did pull that part off, proceeding to roll around on the floor like you atn bad chicken just does not seem likely. 
II' we are going to usn slang and lingo, why not add some that describe how we really fen!. Something like "loti" fi>r laughing on the insido. If you're laughing under your breath throw in an "lumb." 
You might also throw in an "IDHKIITHTWY.JSSIT;\TI.I" for "I don't rnally know how to respond to what you just said so I'll typl' all thnsn letters instead." 
Whnn the acronym gets so long you actually have to stop and con­centrate intently to figure out what it means, you arn deli~ating thn purpose of abbreviating things. 
The study also elaims that the collnge kids ar<' very good spnllnrs. This also comes as a surprise. In my nxpnrinnen. instant nwssaging systems are excuses li1r typing too fast, thus causing you to missp11ll morn words and leave a letter oil' or add a letter that. shouldn't go there. 
Lot's not forget contractions. I am usually morn surprisnd to actu­ally see an apostrophe us11d than left out. 
Run on sentenees arn also a problem the person just starts typing whatever they'ro saying and "thro n sum slang 4 u 2 look at thny wont usn punctuation n they wont even eapitalizn lnttnrs." 
If you must usn your slang and shortcuts with a complntP lack of grammar and punctuation make sure you do not lnt it. spill ovnr into your regular writing. If ever you start turning in assignmnnts with your instant messaging shorthand, then it will bn time to say tho stylo has "gtg". Tty I. 
This column originally appeared March 2 in 11w Parthenon, the daily publication at Marshall Uni11ersity. 
The views expressed in this column are those (~{the autlwr and not necessarily those of71ze Observer. 
Last yt~ar abroad in Honw I had many Pxhilaraling nxperienees. Living in the "EtPnml City." staying down the block from tlw Pantlwon. lming just. a short walk from the Homan Forum and Casto! San i\ngnlo. Tho list is 
Molly

nndlnss, hut thnre was 

Acker 

OIW thing that SUr­passnd 1~vnn tlw thrill of being able to see tlw Nobody Likes A tremondous Vatiean Dumb Blonde regularly. 
For nw tho oxpnrieneo of sooing Popo .John Paul II is sun~ly something I will nover forget. I was lucky enough not only to see him at his weekly Sunday bless­ings, but also to attnml an audience and lwatilkation mass. Each limo I found mysoll' in awn in the presonce of this holy man. 
Not nvnryonn is as fortunate to have liVPd so rlosn. Thernforn, to many pnoplo tho Vatican and the pop.-soom evon morn distant than thn thousands of milos that soparato Homo lhnn i\nwriea. Hight now tho Catholic Church in America is in 1~risis. We aro in desporate noed for peo­pln with ndigious vot~ations. 
This raises questions of why women cannot be priests and why not just allow tlw dergy to marry. In addition to this problnm, wn sne that somo of the priests we do have arn sadly sometimos less than p11rfnet. This is not to undermine tlw many wondorful priests we do have who are capable of changing lives, but the sox scandal in the Catholic Church is a huge issue that has loft many Catholic Americans disnnehanted with the institu­tion. 
Further separating many 

Americans from the Church tive when it comes to issuns aro what they feel is old such as abortion, birth con­doetrino that must bn trol and euthanasia to updated. Though the which he said, "It's a 
·Socond Vatiean Couneil mistake to apply optmed the door for Arneriean democratic mueh discussion on procedures to the faith issues we are still and truth. You cannot concerned with take a vote on truth." today, there an1 still But you cannot say stances the Chureh this man did not takes that seem rnaeh the people. ridiculous to many. It Many people arguo is a constant struggle that he is responsible for some Catholics to for the ultimate fall of choose whether to fol­communism in his native low Church doctrine to country of Poland. practice the cultural norms In his own papacy Pope our country has today. John Paul II has pnrsonally 
Dospite the faet that the Catholic Church still has to makn groat strides and that many disagree with the belief's and ollieial positions of our current Church leader, few can deny that this man is not a deeply religious man with a presence and charisma that has shaped and inllueneed many to be better Christians. 
You may not a~:,rree with Pope John Paul ll's stances on war. You may have hmm angernd by his warnings to Americans about the dangers of materialism, snlfish­noss and secularism and his urging to sharn our wealth with the Third World. 

You may think ho is too conserva­
eneounternd more individuals 
than any other popo to date. More than 17.6 million people have made pil­grimages to Vatican City for his weekly audiences. lie has traveled to virtually every eountry in the world. Pope John Paul II has visited 110 parishes outside Italy, not to mention the 146 in Italy and 317 in Home. Among the people he has met, he especially tried to connect with young Catholics by holding Wol'ld Youth 
Day eelnbrations, which lw has n~lnbrat­ed every othnr ynar sinen 19X5. 
Pope Jolfr1 Paul II has bnnn alllieted with Parkinson's Disnasn and has nvnn survived a near-fatal gunshot wound in 19H1 ynt has nevnrtheless rnmairwd steadfast in all his convictions. lin has undoubtedly relied on his strong faith in God as a sourcn of strnngth throughout these trials whieh has narrwd him a grnat deal of rnspnct. This is a man who has always remained committnd to his prinei­plcs and has refused to back down. We have all seen his health quickly dotnrio­rating lately causing him to undergo sur­gery and miss his first papal blnssing on Feb. 27. Perhaps you do not agrne with his positions as a leadnr, but you must respect this man as an exam pin of how one should live a Christian lifn of intngri­ty. It semns apparent that this man whom has praynd to God for so much of his own lifo now needs our own praynrs morn than ever. I am sure he can tell you bnt­ter than most how pow11rful this can truly bn. 
Molly Acker is a junior lumzanistic studies and communications double major at Saint Maryk .'>'he can be con­tacted at acke6758@saintmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsenwr. 


TI-lE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 10 
Thursday, March 3, 2005 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
Kings. of Leon keeps rock shaking 

Stars ablaze on stellar third record 

By BECCA SAUNDERS Assisram Scene Ediror 
Many American rock fans have at least heard of Kings of Leon, but the band's popularity in the States is miniscule compared to the success the band has experienced in Great Britain, where its first album, "Youth and Young Manhood," has almost reached double platinum. While Kings of Leon experienced a great deal of critical acclaim on both sides of the Atlantic, something about these homegrown rural American boys did not pick up in their homeland. 
All this may be about to change. "Aha Shake Heartbreak," the second major release for Kings of Leon, is a darker follow-up to 2003's "Youth and Young Manhood." The Kings of Leon Web site explains the difference between the two albums, saying, "If 'Youth and Young Manhood' was the party, 'Aha Shake Heartbreak' is the hangover." Although the album is def­initely one of a much darker mood and tone, "Aha Shake Heartbreak" 
Aha Shake Heartbreak Kings of Leon 
RCA 

By MATTHEW SOLARSKI Scene Music Criric 
Stars, a Montreal-based electro-pop band, by nature possess a multitude of extraordinary properties. In the fine tradition of Pixies. Liars, Panthers, Oxes and Owls, defy the definite arti­cle. The quartet, comprised of vocal­ist/keyboardist Torquil Campbell, vocalist/guitarist Amy Millan and multi-instrumentalists Evan Cranley and Chris Seligman, seems to shine exponentially brighter with each sue-has a great many strengths of its own. 
The story of the Kings of Leon is not in any sense a traditiona' tale of rock star formation. Three of the members of the band, singer-guitarist Caleb Followill, bass guitarist Jared Followill and drummer Nathan Followill are brothers. And the fourth member is hardly excluded from the family, as the Followill brothers' first cousin -Matthew Followill -plays guitar. 
The three brothers grew up in a fundamentalist Christian family, led by their father who· was a traveling evangelist. The boys spent a great deal of time on the road with their father going from city to city through­out the southern U.S. to spread the good news. 
The subject matter of the majority of "Aha Shake Heartbreak" hardly reflects this upbringing. For the most part, the album covers the wild life that the members of the band have experienced in their rise to fame in the past year and a half. Many of the songs are strong enough for the album to gain a parental caution 

cessive release. "Set Yourself on Fire" proves to be the combo's most accom­plished release to date, brimming with the warmest of harmonies, the most infectious of melodies and near peer­less production. 
Stars entrance. Beginning with the mesmerizing opener, "Your Ex-Lover Is Dead," Stars exerts a hold over the lis­tener's heart, with swelling strings underscoring Amy Millan's frost­tinged, angelic vocals. Millan's procla­mation, ''I'm not sorry there's nothing to save," subtly becomes "I'm not sorry; there's nothing to save" just as sticker and the lyrics seem to tell the true life of future rock and roll icons. 

Nathan Followill explains this sub­ject change and their personal rela­tion to the lyrics of "Aha Shake Heartbreak," saying, "On our first album, I'd say about 30 percent of what we were writing about was autobiographical and 70 percent was wishful thinking. We were writing about things we hadn't seen yet. On this album, 90 percent of what we're writing about are things we've experi­enced, nights we've had. There's still that other 10 perce1,1t though ... " 
The "Aha Shake Heartbreak" expe­rience does not end at the meaning behind the lyrics -the music also shows the growth of Kings of Leon as artists. Many different types of songs are featured throughout "Aha Shake Heartbreak." The slower "My Generation" and "Slow Nights, So Long" are matched in quality to the 
the strings and drums rise to climax. "Ageless Beauty," much like "Elevator Love Letter," from Stars' previous effort, immediately casts its spell over the listener and holds the room in trance for all of its four glorious min­utes. 
Stars illuminate. The lyrical leap made by Campbell and company since their 2001 debut "Nightsongs" is easily their most stunning advancement. Here, Campbell and Millan deftly illus­trate the proverbial ins and outs of love, life and current affairs with impeccable flair and sensitivity. On the down-tempo duet "The Big Fight," the two trade vocals in a bedside dialogue, then align in lovely harmony. The charming "The First Five Times" is a wistful account of just that -the "first time," euphemistically speaking, and the four thereafter, until "finally we rested." 
Venture too close and Stars is apt to burn, as on the chilling "He Lied About Death," a scathing invective against the sitting U.S. president. This jaw-drop­ping number showcases Stars at its most fiercely political, at one point rebuking the man in question as the "the shadow of fear." Perhaps more efficacious is "Celebration Guns," which trades on the cruel irony inher­ent in the titular phrase. Here, Millan 
--::.J;ZT?X>i~·::·-;<='"'-····. 

Jlcnc• Ash lh ADigital 
....,......:.: · ·:::·t:1f*t::o::.. :·: 
more upbeat pace of "The Bucket" and "Taper Jean Girl." Caleb Followill's vocals are distinctive throughout the all the album's songs, and it seems that Kings of Leon on the whole has captured its own unique sound. 
While "Aha Shake Heartbreak" is not as groundbreaking as "Youth and Young Manhood," it is a little easier to listen to and relate to musically. This album sets the Kings of Leon up for a spectacular third album where the originality of "Youth and Young Manhood" can be combined with the musical maturity of "Aha Shake Heartbreak." Overall, "Aha Shake Heartbreak" is a terrific rock album that proves the Kings of Leon deserve and probably will receive recognition on both sides of the Atlantic. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
asks, "How will you know your enemy? By their color or your fear?" to the tune of pensive strings and percussion made to sound like cannon fire. Of war's casualties, she probes, "are the beating drums I celebration guns I the thunder and the laughter I the last thing they remember?" 
· Amusingly, Stars too embody many of the same qualities commonly associat­ed with stars of the sort born in Hollywood. The personalities of Campbell and Millan impress them­selves indelibly upon the listener. The songs here exude an unmistakable charisma, and manage to be instantly catchy while begging repeat listens ­indeed, only then do these pop confec­tions reveal their true sophistication. 
Stars' star is one that continues to rise. The quartet just garnered a Juno nomination for "Set Yourself on Fire" (the Junos being eons more astute than its stateside counterpart, the Grammys), and "The OC" and "Cosmo Girl" invariably loom on the horizon for these pop parvenus. For now, Stars has light-years of warmth to share with the lovelorn who gaze perennially sky­ward. 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 

~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------· 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Thursday, March 3, 2005 

Four years later, seniors represent new identity 
When you first think about it, the question seems so obvious it shouldn't need an answer. On the other hand, the question is so loaded most people would opt not to answer it at all. Which is why the question, full of history and drama and signifi­cance beyond even words, 


Pat Leonard 

needs to be asked. 
Associate
What will 
Sports Editor 

Notre Dame basketball be without Chris Thomas? 
Don't dismiss it. Though every team graduates seniors and every program moves on, this year's Notre Dame team seems different. Comparing the state of the program four years ago to its status today, one answer to the question becomes clear. 
It will not be the same. 

Amid heavy criticism from fans and under the spotlight of national media, Thomas has accomplished what he hopes others will continue -the revival of Notre Dame basket­ball. 
He has had his bad days, bad weeks and bad streaks. He has thrown the ball away trying to make the extra pass, the high­light reel assist. But give Thomas a break. All he is try­ing to do is win. 
Talk to his teammates, his coaches, his managers. They all say the same thing, and it sounds like this -Chris Thomas cares more about this team than anyone else. 
That may be true, but if it isn't, that is only because the other Irish senior cares just as much. 
Following Sunday's 75-65 loss to UCLA at the Joyce Center, coaches and players were quiet and reserved, dis­appointed in the loss. Jordan Cornette was devastated. 
The senior forward sat in the first seat in the locker room ­not his normal post game spot. l-Ie held his head in his hands, with elbows rested on limp knees. 
Cprnette seemed on the verge of tears. 
"That's one the thing with senior leadership, you've got to make sure everyone's heads are right and the morale is high," he said Tuesday night. "That's one of the toughest tasks as a senior." 
Days later, Cornette was back to being the most vocal person in the Notre Dame locker room. 
"''m always trying to be that voice in their heads keeping the [team] focused," Cornette said. "I think especially down the stretch, this is when any team, especially our team, needs the senior leadership." 
The Irish need the leader­ship, especially, because of who the seniors are. 
Thomas recently joined Sherman Douglas and Gary Payton (two NBA stars) as only the third Division-I player to register 2,000 points and 800 assists during a career. Maybe he set the bar too high when he notched a triple-double in his first game as a freshman, and all of the fans that gave Thomas a hard time felt they had the right to compare his play to that one game. 
But while criticism is justified for Thomas' play on occasion, the Irish point guard can do a large number of things the Notre Dame program has not seen for a while in a single player. 
The most important of those things is that Thomas can win consistently. And Notre Dame, under Thomas' lead, for the most part has done that. 


This senior class ha.s value even down to the walk-ons, who the floor general says has everything to do with his suc­cess in games. 
"I told [senior walk-on Greg Bosl] this about a month ago, people don't realize the impact he has on our team," Thomas said. 'They don't get any PT [playing timeJ, but their impor­tance in practice, knowing other teams game plans has been a huge part of our suc­cess this season." 
On Saturday, Thomas will walk with Cornette and Bosl onto the floor to face Pittsburgh on Senior Day, their final home game at the Joyce Center. 

"It's going to be a culmina­tion of great experiences, big games, the resurgence of Notre Dame bask11tball back on the map," Thomas said. "It's defi­nitely going to be an emotional time, but it will be a great motivator for us going into the tournament and finishing the season strong." 
Thomas and Cornette deserve a deep NCAA tourna­ment run. Four years ago, such a statement would not logically attach itself to Notre Dame basketbalL But now, Thomas more than anyone deserves a memorable postseason to put an ideal finishing touch on a statistically and historically amazing career. 
What will Notre Dame bas­ketball be without Chris Thomas? 
The Irish hope they don't find out until April. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd. edu 

PosT PERIMETER COACHING STYLE OF PLAY BENCH INTANGIBLES

PLAYERS PLAYERS 
1.&.1 
:E 
ct 

Q 
1.&.1 
D:: 
..... 
0 

z 


After the disappoint­ing UCLA loss, Brey had his toughest coaching job of the season to get the con­fidence back. He suc­ceeded in getting his team focused for Rutgers.  The UCLA loss forced the Irish to rededicate themselves on the defensive end of the court. In the past, Brey would try to outscore teams, but against the Panthers, they just can't adapt that philosophy.  Every time the Irish take the court, no one knows how the big men will produce. Francis played better on Sunday, but it seems like he needs· a fire lit to play to his ability. Latimore and Cornett haven't been consistent help off the bench.  In the two-point loss Feb. 12, Thomas and Quinn carried the Irish with a combined 41 points. This has been the strength of the team all season and will carry the Irish as far they go in the post­season.  Brey's been experi­menting more with lineups of late. Isreal is seeing alot of time and looks more confi­dent every night. Carter's been stuck in the backcourt logjam but provides instant offense off the bench.  If the Irish win this game, they are a lock for the NCAA tourna­ment. Beating the Panthers gets the Irish to 10 wins in confer­ence, which is impres­sive in the Big East.  
With his team facing a place on the NCAA tournament bubble, Dixon got the Panthers to play their best game of the season in the 22-point destruc­tion of Boston College at the Conte Forum Monday night.  Pittsburgh continues to be a typical Big East team -battling down in the post and playing· in-your-face defense .. After allowing more than 70 points during their three-game losing streak, the Panthers allowed just 50 against the Eagles.  This is the strength of the Panthers. Trout­man has been their most consistent player, while Taft has been frustrating for Dixon. But Taft joined Troutman in leading the big win Monday night.  Krauser has been making some big-time shots of late, especially against the Irish and in the comeback win at Syracuse Feb. 14. Graves has started 22 games and can fill it up from behind the arc.  The Panthers have nine players getting double-digit minutes every night, but no one sticks out. Dixon isn't afraid to pull one of his starters like he did with Taft in the first meeting against the Irish.  Pittsburgh's in the NCAA tournament. The only thing left is playing for seeding. A win at Notre Dame would help that resume and move the Panthers farther away from playing a 1 or 2 seed before the sec­ond weekend.  
Brey has more expe­rience, but both of these teams have struggled to 'get 0,1:1 a,; roll heading into col1 lege ba$ketb<J:J!:~ mos~ important month. Adjustments from the first game will be key.  The Irish backcourt struggled against UCLA, but its depth provides the edge against the Panthers. Falls is in a slump, but there's sim­ply too many options for;#" Brey that someone will play well on Saturday.  Neither of these areas stand out over t t\ler. B could$, an ue~~tPe;&leJ $1~~.~ from one of the reserves that gets an advantage.  Despite the majority of students being on spring break, this one still goes to the Irish. Senior Day will be .an advantage, but the Irish get tllis cat­egory because they need this game to get into the dance. They haven't for­gotten last season.  

-
Thursday, March 3, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 



End of an era 
Chris Thomas plays his last home game Saturday against Pittsburgh 
By MATT LOZAR 
"i<'nior Swll"Writer 
Mikn Brny pointnd out his oflke window. 
It wasn't at thn blizzard blanketing the Notre Dame campus Tunsday. lin was pointing at Notrn Dame Stadium. Why'? To dnscrilw Chris Thomas. "I think he's rnally been tlw poster boy for tho pro­
gram," Brey said. "()uitl~ frankly, he's bem1 the highest prolile athlete lat NotrP Dame) as well. Morn than any of tlw guys over tlwre, because lw's been the guy,. and I think lw's handlnd that with roal gracn." 
Forgot about Thomas' name bning all ovnr tho Notrn I lame rncord book. Forgnt about the aceoladns and awards decorating his hittgraphy. Forgt~t about tlw expectations eoming from being Mr. Indiana or his opnning-night triple double. 
What Brny indicated by simply raising his loft arm eon­firmnd tlw landmark deeision made by tho l'iko high school junior in April 2000. 
Thomas aceomplislwd what he camn horn to do. 
Making his own path 
In basketball-crazed Indiana, the nnws of Thomas spread quickly throughout thn statn. l'urdun eoa1~h Gone Keady and former Indiana coach Bob Knight had recruit­ml Thomas since junior high. Thomas looked at top-flight programs ouL'iide Indiana as well-specifi­cally Duke and Michigan State. 
"fie wants it to be

Wlwn it mmn down to it, Thomas wantnd Thomas hurt the knee after his sopho­to be dilli1rent. the team did this more year but didn't want to shut down "I kind of wanted to writo my own story," his junior season when Brey asked him
and not CT did 

Thomas said. "I think I wanted to havo the twice if he should. lie actually cut his
this."

ability to gnt a gn~at dngrnn and gnt playing coach ofl' in mid-sentence both times. tinw and really do sonwthing nobody has So Thomas stayed the course and the really donn. That was a hugn part of tho Jordan Cornette led tnam through an eight-day stretch that dndsion." saw the Irish, sitting at 1 0-9 
Irish senior 

Coming down to a ehoiee b11tween Notm Damn and Stanford, Thomas chose thn Irish with a major n~ason !wing thon-coach Matt Doherty rPITuitnd him hanlnr than anybody. 
But af'tl'r tJilP smtson in South Bend, the former North Carolina playPr left for his alma meter when the head mach position opened up in Chapel IIill. Dohnrty didn't IWIHl rail Thomas or Jordan Cornotte, who were at a Nikn Camp in Indianapolis, until the noxt day to let them know. 
llownver, when he got the Irish job, Brny eal.led Thomas "right away" and asked tho Indianapolis native to r.onw visit tlw campus in early August, spend some time wit.h the now eoar.hing stall' and sen if it was still going t.o bo a fit. 
Thomas nnvnr opmwd his rneruiting baek up to other schools. 
"I think hnfilrP lw mot me, when I was on tho phone with him in July, hn was about 90 pnreent baek to stay­ing," Brny said. "I think that says a lot about him as a kid -talk about a loyalty to a university." 
Setting the bar high 
Thomas didn't walk onto campus as a celebrity. Whnn lw would play at Holfs or outsidn his dorm, people would providn somn advice-try out for tho team. 
It didn't afl'net Thomas until his first collegiate gamn. Twenty-four points, I I assists and 11 steals latnr, and Thomas wasn't a campus unknown any longer. 
"It was something I just shrugged ofl' until the very first ganw wlwn I had tho triple-double or the exhibition ganws wlwn I played n~ally well," Thomas said. "So I just snt the bar n~al high. I nxpeetml to play real well." 
Thomas played wnll throughout that froshman season --earning numnrous freshman or rookie of the year hon­ors--when the Irish almost knocked ofl' No. 1 seed Duke 

GEOFF MATIESONfThe Observer Notre Dame's 55-45 win at Indiana on Dec. 8, the first In Bloomington since 1973, was especially sweet for Indianapolis native Chris Thomas. 
in the second round of the NCM tournament. One year later, the Irish finished off their seeond-round opponent, advaneing to tho school's first Sweet 16 since 1987. 
Coming off a season whore he garnen~d Associated Press honorable mention All-American honors, Thomas declared himself eligible for the NBA Draft on May 6, 2003. Brny was right thorn next to him, encouraging him. 
Aller participating in individual workouts with a num­bnr of' teams, Thomas never got a guarantne he would be a first-round pick, which meant a guaranteed three-year eon tract. 
Thomas therefore returned to school on June 16. 
''I've always said, I think it was a groat decision to explorn it and if he was guaranteed a No. 1 pick, ho would have gone and I would have told him you have to go, even if he didn't want to go," Broy said. "I think it was good for him because it showed him what he had to work on. Becoming a leader 
Thoso 41 days taught Thomas a lot. It taught Thomas the decision-makers in the NBA weren't looking for flashy point guards, but leaders. 
"It was very important to my progress as a player more as a cernbral player. You see their work ethic and see what the general managers look for," Thomas said. "They don't look for the dunks or crossovers, but how you lead your team, win big games, pick up full court on defensn." 
Attempting to better understand his role as a point guard, Thomas refocusnd his game for his junior year. 
There was only one problem -that pain 
in his tell knee. 
overall and 4-5 in the Big 

East, beat Connecticut, "Quite frankly, he's run in the NIT. Seton llall and Syracuse -three future been the highest But for four years, Thomas has11't put NCM tournament toams --and got back himself first. 
profile athlete I at 
into the talk for the tournament. "I just look at the wins and losses ovm· 
"I think that kind ol' shows what kind of Notre Dame]." the last four years," Thomas said. "In my kid he is," Brny said. "I was proud of him eyes, my main baskntball goal was to help because he earrind us. For us to get to <J-7 turn this program around.
Mike Brey
lin the Big Eastland be on tho bubble after "I think that was my main goal, and I f'nl'l
Irish coach 
where wo worn at 1 0-9, 4-5 and the big guy [Torin Francis) goos down, that says a lot about the kind of strntch drive he had for us ... lie was a hunchback by the end of the season. No wonder the knee was sore." 
The Irish finished at 16-11 but didn't hear their name called on Selection Sunday. After two years of going to the Big Dance, the Irish settled for the NIT. 
"It was real tough. That was probably the lowest point of our four-yoar career, Jordan ICornette I and mine," Thomas said. "Walking out of coach Brey's basement knowing that you couldn't even play in the tournament. 
"I think it was a motivator, a wake-up call." 
Leaving a legacy 
That motivation stayed with Thomas during the ofl'-soa­son, despite his April 9, 2004 surgery preventing him from rnturning to the court until August. 
Now it's put his tnam in position f(Jr the NCAA tourna­ment --one final chance for Thomas to leave his mark on the Notre Dame program. 
"Nobody deserves it more. I think anybody around the country with this kid, you want him to go out playing in the NCM tournament," Brey said. "I don't know if any­body wants that more than he and 1." 
Hogardless of' what happens this season, Thomas has already left his mark on th~ program for next season. Bn~y said he now can recruit a segment of high school players Notre Dame hasn't seen since tho middle of tho 1980s. Players that led to the incoming freshman class being rated in the top 15 in the country. 
Players such as Luke Zeller from Washington, Ind. who stayed in-statn but came to South Bend. Players such as Kyle McAlarney from Staten Island, 
N.Y. who is the heir apparent to Thomas at the point guard position and cam1~ to Notre Dame largely bocausn of what Thomas has done during the past four years and the relationship Brey has with the current point guard. 
"lie's one of the best guards in the nation, and he's got­ten better over his four years there, and he's been quar· terbacking his team since he was a freshman," MeAlarney said. "It influenced me a lot. I saw the style of play. And I think I have kind of a similar game to him offensively," 
It's not easy to match Thomas' success by filling out the stat sheet, but Brey's been judging his point guard by what he's measured by-wins and losses. 
It's something Thomas' teammates and fellow senior co-captain Cornette see all the time, putting the team above himself. 
"People are going to naturally associate you with want­ing to aehiove personal achievements. lie's the guy that would trade it above all else to have team achievements," Cornette said. "lie wants it to be the team did this and not CT did this. That's a huge testament. lie puL'i evnry­thing aside for tho bettnrmnnt of the tnam. That's selfless­ness." 


Thomas eould have taken the easy road and ((JIIownd the rest of the top players from Indiana and stayed at a stato school. 
lie eould have thought about his bank arwunt and left for the NBA after either of his first two snasons. 
lie could have put himself first last snaso11 and n~pain~d his aching knee that got knd down minutes after evnry game before tho quarterfinal 
like I've aceomplishnd it prntty wnll." 
Thomas has onn morn hornn garnn and the Big East tournament to prnparn for an NC/\1\ tourna­ment run --the tournamnnt lw eame to Notrn Damn l<tr. 
"It's been almost a whole ynar sinen wn'vn bmm back. Even though you're in postseason tourney play, it's a totally difl(mmt atmosphere," Thomas said. "Your pro­gram's not buzzing about it, and when we wont sopho­more year, it was the biggnst thing to eomn around f(u· a long time." 
The biggest thing to conw around, that. is, sinen Chris Thomas. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.cdu 
Chris Thon1as by the numbers 
consecutive starts made by Thomas -a Notre Dame record and every Irish game since he 
125

arrived on campus 
8 2 
Notre Dame wins since the Indianapolis native took over the point guard position lour seasons ago 
years the two-time state champion at Pike High School has been named an Associated Press honor· 
2

able mention All-American 
41 days the former McDonald's All-American spent flirting with the NBA Draft after declaring himself eligible following his sophomore season 
Big East Rookie of the Week honors garnered by the only Mr. Basketball from Indiana to attend Notre Dame 
6

during his 2002 Big East Rookie of the Year campaign 
3 
point guards in college basketball history with 2,000 career points and 800 career assists. Thomas joined Sherman Douglas and Gary Payton In that club Sunday 
minutes played by Thomas as a freshman In a 116-111 quadruple-overtime win at Georgetown­
60

an NCAA record 
1 
triple-doubles in Notre Dame history. Thomas record­ed 24 points, 11 assists and 11 steals against New Hampshire Nov. 16, 2001 in his first collegiate game 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 4 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Thursday, March 3, 2005 
Brey mixes and matches with deep bench 

Carter, Cornett, Isreal working their way into team's rotation 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
At the beginning of the season, Mike Brey boasted he had nine or 10 players ready to see the court and make significant con­tributions. 
Twenty-six games into the 2004-05 campaign, the Irish coach is using the depth. he talked so highly of early in the season. 
Juggling six players through three combinations of starting lineups, Brey also has found strengths in reserve players Russell Carter, Rick Cornett and Omari Isreal. 
"Everyone knows during the course of the game that anyone could be playing from Chris Thomas to our last walk-on," Carter said. "Not just me, but everybody -[coach Brey] tells everyone to be ready." 
Cornett, a 6-foot-8, 256-pound junior, has played the most prominent role off the bench this season, often substituting for center Torin Francis down low. At first permanently relegated to the bench behind a healthy Francis and Arizona transfer Dennis Latimore, Cornett played his way into a 9.5 minutes per game average -he scored four points in six minutes and anchored a 2-3 zone in the hos­tile Assembly Hall early in the season. 
On the other hand, sophomores Carter and Isreal have shown in later emergences they may be able to contribute just as much in a back-up role as Cornett. 
The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 

http://osa.nd.edu 
Nominationt•J are due by Friday, March 4, 2005. 

"I just play," Carter said. "I made the most of them. The know 1 can play. And I just go out sophomore forward scored livr~ there and show what I can do." points and grabbPd four 
What Carter can do is score. rebounds in 16 minutPs. 
The sophomore is shooting ''I've just always brwn positive." almost 49 percent from the field said Isreal, who is averaging 7.7 and 10-for-18 (55.6 percent) minutes and 1.3 points per game from the 3-point line. He aver­in 16 games played. "I think I've 
ages 7.3 minutes per game and gotten stronger mentally. has played in 21 of the team's 26 Physically, l think I've been the contests. Carter playnd 10 hard same all here. Mentally. I think minutes in a 75-65 loss to UClA I've gotten bettPr." Sunday, spelling a 
Similar to Cor­struggling Colin nett's role of be­Falls and scoring coming an extra,
"I know I can play.
six points on 2-of-skilled body, isreal
And 1just go out
3 shooting (both often jumps into baskets were 3-there and show the lineup for th!' pointers). what I can do." athletic Cornette or 
Carter (6-foot-4, for the third Notre 223 pounds) said Dame guard. His
Russell Carter
he has gained 25 presence makes pounds of muscle Irish sophomore the Irish defense since he arrived at longer and the the Joyce Center overall team taller. 
his freshman year. Physical work "As the season goes on. guys in the weight room has increased that play a lot of minutes get a Carter's strength and value on little bit tired," Isreal said. "Big the floor, though -as any player East ·gets more physical, so the would -he may have enjoyed extra bodies help us a lot." the playing time sooner. Isrna! shoots just :~o percent 
"Everybody is coming from from the field and averages 1.8 their high schools where they rebounds per game, but his per­were the man. and sometimes it's formance against UCLA showed a slow process," Jordan Cornette the sophomore is close to becom­said. ing a major factor. 
Carter "was the man" at "Omari waited his turn," Paulsboro Iligh School, finishing Cornette said. "Now he's getting as the second all-time leading the opportunity to show his scorer in school history with stufl'." 2,287 points after averaging 30 CartPr. Corn<'tt and lsn•al havl' points, 11.2 rebounds and 3.4 all taken a maturn approach to assists per game as a senior. their roles, prnparing for each 
This season. while demonstrat­game as if they will see the floor ing his scoring ability, the sopho­even more than they did the more has also committed 20 game before. turnovers and 25 personal fouls, "On any given night, I can get .both factors that limit him to a 10 minutes or no minutes.'' bench role but that, once correct­Carter said. "It's mental tough­ed, vtill place Carter in a position ness." to hog minutes. 
Isreal, like Carter, saw signifi­Contact Pat Leonard at 
cant minutes against UCLA and pleonard@nd.edu 

Welcome to Paradise! 
•Pre-leasing 
for the 2005-2006 school year 

•Studios 
and 1 and 2 bedroom apartments (574)272-8124 


ask Sherry for details www.aimco.com 
-"uw•4•
•"o• r 

' 
..,.

,;;;=·:::;::o"••"'eod\W't e=;: .·= , 
~.,.,, .,.. '"o' And Ch~erleadcr Tryouts 2005 
Information Meeting March 1 S @ 5:30 p.m. Gym 2 (ftbtWfll G1te 10 of thfl Joyc@ Center). All gjm woleom~ = eome eee wh€lt el'leerl@iitdln~ ftt Notr~ Dame is oil about, .. 
Tt-··f E0 HSERVER 







CENE
Thursday, March 3, 2005 
page II 
ALBUM REVIEW 
Third Atticus compilation worth a look 
By MIKE TENNANT 
St"rne Music Critic 
J\tlir.us is hack again with its third installment of tho "Dragging the Lake" compilation. Tho album eon­tains some newer and somewhat hardnr to find tracks from well-estab­lislwd and popular bands, such as Blink IH2 and Taking Back Sunday. i\nd just likn its prndecnssors, Attieus submits a numbnr of unfamiliar sounds for tlw listener's approval. 
Whill' the previous i\ttints discs are tHtsinr to elassify under the punk or emo categories, the third chapter con­tains llltll:h morn or a mishmash of genres and styles. While this is great 
for thn musically-cultured listener, it is a tough listen for single-genre­minded folk. 
On the whole, the tracks from the more popular acts are good -but not great. Many Taking Back Sunday and MxPx fans might find their hands' cuts slightly disappointing. While Taking Baek's "Number Five with a Bullet" gets extra credit for its "High Fidelity" reference, the track is not up to the band's usual standards. The song is a good emotionally driven rock song, no doubt, but it is not up to the group's standards set by its breakout album "Tell All Your Friends." 
Tho Motion City Soundtrack cut "1 000 Paper Cranes" also falls along 

the same lines. While not as well known as Taking Back or Blink, tho band does have a loyal following. And the majority of them know it has bet­ter songs. Again, the song is not bad by any means. It offers a jumpy style of post-punk complete with a well­incorporated moog. The drums rock tho listener along, and by the end you very well could be jumping up and down. But they have even bettor songs that are not on display here. 
However, Blink's cut "Not Now" proves the exception to the rule, as the veteran punk trio puts forth a quality tune. Musically, the song demonstrates the maturation of the band's style. This is also demonstrat­ed in the lyrics, as Mark lloppus and Tom Delonge sing as though they are laying on their deathbeds coming to grips with the ever-approaching end. 
While the majority of the lesser­known acts on the album tend to blend together in a big mesh eloak of Taking Back Sunday I Thursday I Further Seems Forever-type music, there are a few diamonds in the rough that stand out. 
Lucero takes a big swing at original­ity, as it is essentially a punk-country band that somehow manages to cross Hancid with Johnny Cash. "Bike Hiders" casually and almost perfectly blends these styles as lead singer Ben Nichols narrates a sad story of a biker romance from bar-room beginnings to 

sad bedroom endings. 
i\lso stepping up to t.he plato is tho band Gratitude whose song, "This is tho Part," could very wnll bo tho best of the bunch. This San Francisco group starts the album ofT on t.ho right foot with a nice big hook and a sound similar to .Jimmy liat World. I>o not be surprised if' you find yourself' nodding your head and singing along bnl'ore the nnd of the song. 
Other bands also try a little origi­nality, but its mombers ond up falling on thoir faces. VCH's "Brateore" is nothing more than a dwap attempt at danco-punk that ends up sounding a lot like a weird European night duh whore only the extrenwly weird von­lure out to the dance floor. 
Ovnrall, tho album has a dnpressing feel to it. Taking Back Sunday sings about dying misorable and alone, while Blink singnrs lament. on their deathbeds. Death Cab for Cutin thon sees nothing hopeful about New Year's. This is mostly a product of' the emotionally-driven style of music that flows through thn majority of' the bands on display, but it. provns to lw a downer anyway. 
While some of' tho song selections might be subpar, the diamonds in tho rough mako "Dragging tho Lako Vol. 3" worth tho listen. 
Contact Mike Tennant at 
mtennant@nd.edu 
50 Cent feuds with protege 
Assudatcd Press 
i\notlwr day. anothor foud for 50 Cent. This t.imo, lw's beefing with his own protege, the best-selling rappor The (;amo. 
/\dually, make that formc~r protege. 
In an intnrview on hip-hop radio sta­tion llot 97 Monday night, 50 announeed that he was kicking The (;anw out of' his G-Un it clique bocauso of disloyalty -for rnfusing to take 50's sidP in his latnst battles with high-pro­lilo rapJWrs. Thon a shooting oc:eurrod outsidP llw radio station, wounding one man. police said. 
i\1. t.lw limn. 50 CPnt was inside speak­ing on the radio -the interview ended abrupl.ly as security pnoplo escorted tho rappPr out tlw building, a spokesman for l.lw radio station said. 
"No orw f'nlln llot IJ7 witnessed this inddnnt." said /\lex Dudley, the llot 97 (W()IIT-FM in Nnw York) spokesman. 
lnvnstigators, still trying to sort out tlw ehaotie sc:nrw, suspndnd 50's eom­nwnts WPrn lward on thn radio by assn­datos of' Ttw (;arnn, including the shoot­ing victim. Thn assoeial.f~s allngedly wont to the radio station, whore they were rnnt outside by rnnmbnrs of 50 Ctmt's tmtouragn and the violence erupt­mi. polien said. 
It was undnar whether Tho Game was directly involved. police said. 
No arrests have beon made. An unidentified, 24-year-old Los Angeles man was in stable eondition with a gun­shot wound to the uppor thigh. 
l'oliee wero also investigating a report of' a sncond shooting ineident about two hours latnr outside a building where the company that manages 50 Cent ­named Violator-has offices. Witnesses said two men tired eight shots through the building's front door, then fled. No one was injurnd. 
Hepresentatives for 50 had no com­ment when contacted by The Associated Press on TUI~sday. 
All this comes as 50 prepares to relnase tho album "The Massacre" Thursday. It's the follow-up to 2003's "Get Hieh or Die Tryin '." which not only made the bullet-searred. brash rapper an international superstar, but also an empire. 
The rappnr's dnbut sold more than 8 million copies, and his G-Unit umbrella has launched the careers of' three top­selling rappers -The Game, Young Buek and Lloyd Banks. In addition, there's a G-Unit fashion line and other enterprises.. 
"The Massacre" was scheduled for releasn March 8, but was moved up to Thursday becauso it is so hotly antici­pated. The first single from the album, "Candy Shop," is already No. 1 on the Billboard !lot 100 chart. 
Elliott Wilson, the editor in ehief of the hip-hop magazino XXL, says the publici­ty will give a boost to what is already expeeted to be a bloekbuster album. 
"It helps him obviously in terms of exposure. You can't ask for better pro­motion. Now he's literally making histo­ry by beefing with his own artist," Wilson said. "This is more the boss of the clique dismissing his own artist." 
50 Cent built much of his stature on feuds -his battle with Ja Hule helped demolish Ja Hule's star power. As his new album approached, he's also picked feuds with Fat Joe, Nas and Jadakiss. 
The Los Angeles-based rapper, The Game, seemed to be following in SO's footsteps. Like 50, he was a former drug dealer, had been shot several times and used rap as his way out of a life of crime. And like 50, who was introduend under the wings of Eminem, The Game rode 50's coattails into the rap world. 

The Game's album "The Doeumentary" debuted at No. 1 when it was relnased in January and features 50 on several songs, including the album's hit, "llow We Do." 
The Game apparently drew 50 Cent's ire after an interview appearance on Hot 97 Saturday night, in which he sup­ported SO's enemies. 
"I ain't gonna tum on my friends and Nas is one of my friends, and Jada's really a homie ... SO's beef is 50's beef and I really don't know where all this stems from." 
On Monday's show, 50 said The Game was no longer part of G-Unit and claimed responsibility for his success. 
"Every record he's selling is based on me being on his record with him," he said. 

In tho short-term, 50's presence on his album may nnd up hurting Tlw Garnn, who brags about his al'liliation with G­Unit in songs likn "llow We Do." But ultimately, Wilson said tho feud may end up boosting his earner by showing he's not a 50 puppet. 
"I think that Gamn obviously feels like he's his own man alrnady," said Wilson. 
As for 50 Cent, Wilson said all the drama surrounding the star may turn into a negative. It has eortainly caused some waves for both 50 and The Game's parent label, lntorscope -and for Eminem and Dr. Dre, who are both allil­iated with The Game (lk Dre produeed much of the album). 
"I think he's making more and more enemies," Wilson said of 50. "You defi­nitely feel like is he doing too much of a Tupac spiral, like me against the world. You bring more people wanting to sec you fail." 
3} LCD SOUNDSYSTEM-LCD Soundsystem 4) SUPERWOLF ·Abuse & Die 5) ELUOTT SMITH-From a Basement on the Hill 
page 12 The Observer + ClASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 3, 2005 
NBA 

Francis scores 29 points in victory over Kings 
Nets stop 76ers; Wizards knock off Rockets; Celtics beat Lakers; Warriors win 
Associated Press Webber said. "Anything you say 
is an excuse. You just have to 
OHLANDO, Fla. -Steve do it. Everybody knows what Francis and the Orlando Magic type of player I am. Obviously, I had a difficult time holding off have to make adjustments. It's the tired Sacramento Kings. frustrating." 
Francis had 29 points and 10 The Nets have won three assists to help the Magie snap a straight to close within 1 1/2 three-game losing streak with a games of Philadelphia, which victory over the Kings. trails first-place Boston by 1 1/2 
"We just wanted to get back games in the Atlantic Division. to playing well after losing our "There's got to be a grace previous three," Orlando coach period for the guy to fit in," Johnny Davis said. "Our mis­Nets coach Lawrence Frank sion is the make this the stan­said of Webber. dard for how we play every Carter has fit in well with the night." Nets since coming to New 
Francis had eight points in Jersey in a trade with Toronto the fourth quarter, including a on Dec. 17. He has scored 30 or dunk that gave the Magic a more points in 12 of his 33 seemingly safe 114-105 lead games with the Nets, who are with 48 seconds left. But the 19-18 since the trade. Kings' Cuttino Mobley and Mike After a three-point play by Bibby hit consecutive 3-pointers Iverson cut New Jersey's lead to to cut it to 114-111 with 30 sec­85-82 with 2:36 left, Carter and onds to play. Iverson traded 3-pointers. 
The Kings, playing their Carter added a pair of free eighth road game in a nine­throws, giving the Nets a 90-85 game span, had a final chance lead, and the Sixers couldn't get with 3.3 seconds to play, but any closer. Peja Stojakovic's 3-pointer at "We were able to maintain the buzzer was just long. when they made their runs," 
"It felt pretty good when I Carter said. "We tried to take released the ball," Stojakovic advantage of mismatches." previous seven came before he · Bryant scored 17 first-quarter their sixth road victory of the said. "An inch shorter and Carter missed eight of his was sidelined after a victory points against Boston. But he season, a win over the maybe it goes in, but we gave it nine shots and had just 6 points over Phoenix on Jan. 15. His was scoreless in the fourth -Timberwolves. a good effort." in the first half. But he scored teammates went 9-11 in his missing a 3-pointer just before The Warriors trailed by as 
Stojakovic led Sacramento 14 in the third quarter, includ­absence and had lost five of the buzzer -as the Celtics beat many 11 points in the third with 28 points in his first game ing 12 during a 23-8 run that their last six. Though playing Los Angeles to extend the quarter, but opened the fourth after missing seven games gave the Nets a 65-59 lead. with a splint on his thumb, he Lakers' losing streak to four with a 16-2 run to snap a three­because of a hamstring injury. Carter had three 3-pointers in showed no ill effects from the games. game losing streak and hand Bibby had 26 points and 10 that stretch. injury as he resumed his back­Asked about the settlement the Timberwolves a crushing assists. "I wasn't discouraged," court chemistry with Gilbert following the game, Bryant home loss. 
"It was great to be back on Carter said. "I tried to be Arenas, who finished with 33 said, "Gentlemen, anybody with Kevin Garnett had 28 points the court," Stojakovic said. "I patient and get other guys points, eight rebotmds and five basketball questions, gentle­and 13 rebounds for the was worried about my injury, involved." assists. men?" Pressed a few minutes Tirnberwolves, who remain one but it felt good. It is going to Wizards 101, Rockets 98 "A lot of players who get later for comment, he repeated game behind the Los Angeles take a couple of days to get Larry Hughes stunned his injured, it takes them three of his no-comment and Lakers Lakers for the eighth and final back to normal." teammates, his coach and the four games to get a swagger spokeswoman Allison Bogli playoff spot in the West after 
Sacramento lost for the sec­fans with 31 points in his first back," Arenas said. "But it was said, "Basketball questions advancing to the Western ond straight night without cen­game back from a broken like he didn't miss a beat." only." Conference finals a year ago. ter Brad Miller, sidelined by a thumb. To hear him talk, it was Hughes credited his success After a few more questions With home games against the calf injury. That, combined with his game plan all along. to waiting until he was properly about the team's troubles, Warriors and Milwaukee and a trade of Chris Webber to Hughes did not ease himself healed to attempt a return. His Bryant was asked when he game at Boston this week, the Philadelphia last week, forced back into the lineup the way thumb was broken when it was might be. able to comment on Timberwolves were hoping to the Kings to start backups many injured players do. He hit by Quentin Richardson dur­his own. "I know you came all "make some hay" as new coach Darius Songaila and Brian had a block and a dunk before ing a drive in the paint, and he the way down from New York," Kevin McHale put it and gain Skinner. the game was two minutes old. didn't want another hack from he told a TV reporter, "but y'all some ground on the Lakers, Nets 99, 76ers 93 He played 37 minutes, made 11 a defender to re-injure the came all this way for nothing." who lost to Boston on 
Vince Carter's transition to a of 20 shots, grabbed six thumb and knock him out for Paul Pierce had 29 points and Wednesday night. new team is going much rebounds, had four assists and the season. nine rebounds, Ricky Davis But the Warriors had other smoother than Chris Webber's. made the 3-pointer that gave "You're the only person who scored 29 points and Antoine ideas. 
Carter scored 26 of his 32 the Washington Wizards the knows your body," Hughes said. Walker had 16 points and 13 After scoring just 13 points in points in the second half and lead for good in their victory ''I've been around in this rebounds in his first game in the fourth quarter of a loss to Clifford Robinson added 18 over the Houston Rockets. league, and I know that you Boston since being reacquired Memphis on Tuesday night, points, leading the New Jersey "That was above and beyond have to take care of yourself. at the trading deadline. The Golden State ripped off 31 Nets to a victory over the the call of duty, it really was," You have to make sure that rejuvenated Celtics have won against Minnesota, coming up Philadelphia 76ers. coach Eddie Jordan said. "Just you're ready to go, and that's three straight since then and with every big shot down the 
Allen Iverson had 37 points to come and play those minutes really what I did." six straight at home overall. stretch to stave off the desper­and Webber scored 10 in his and to score the points and play Celtics 104, Lakers 101 Warriors 99, Timberwolves 93 ate Timberwolves. worst performance in three the 'D' and make timely shots Kobe Bryant's problems have The Minnesota Timberwolves Mike Dunleavy's 3-pointer games for the Sixers. late in the game. Man, that was moved back to the basketball are looking more and more like gave Golden State a 90-79 lead Philadelphia has lost three of a classic." court. a lottery team. with 3:15 to go, but the four since acquiring Webber The Wizards have an eight­Just 30 minutes after settling Derek Fisher had 23 points Timberwolves responded with a from Sacramento last week. game winning streak when a lawsuit filed by the woman and nine assists to lead the 7-0 run to pull within 90-86 
"I don't know what to say," Hughes is in the lineup, but the who accused him of rape, Golden State Warriors to just with 1:12 to go. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr to edit all classifieds for conrent wid10ut issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BEDROOM, TWO BATHS. HURRY 235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent program. Blue & Gold Homes (574)250-7653. 

2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 
S.B. AVE -605 ST. PETER CALL 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 
6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH+ DEP. STAFF AND FAG­UL TY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876­3537. 
2-3 bdrm houses avail. now and 05­
06. Close to ND. Call 276-2333. Omni Properties KNOLLWOOD HOME FOR RENT, 4BD,2.5 BATH,$1650. 858-722-4469. 

FOR SALE 
OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4 rm, 2 bath. For details fimbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900. 
Save your grant money & buy a refurbished DELL computer.$1 OO&up. 229-3333 
FoR RENT 
Catholic family 
offering full time 
summer childcare opportunity; 4 
children ages 
6 to 12; 
Scottsdale Mall area; 7:30 am to 
4:30 pm;wages negotiable; non . smoker; own transportation needed. Call Maureen 360-1738. 


PERSONAL 

Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! Panama City, Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco. Nassau $499! Award Winning Company! SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Have a great time in South Padre 
girls, I shall miss you. "I wish it was a leap year'' as a celebration 
And to rejuvenate freshman year, sweet, sweet Iovin', or just Iovin'. ATL bound-let's go bowling 
chiscuit and sweeving is fun I've fallen from the rankings, it is a sad day. 

Thursday, March 3, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
NFL 

Ravens sign former Titans wide receiver Mason 
Moss trade to Oakland becomes official; Redskins come to terms with Samuels 
Washington's catch was a
A.-.ociarcd Press l'ormnr Haven, 'ennter Casey Tlw Washington Hndskins Babach. who joirwd a team has did it again, jumping spnnt millions in tho early days Wndnesday to sign t.lw first of' f'rnn agency the last two sna­freo agPnt of t.lw spason. sons. But morn significant for B ul tlw BaItiIll orn H a v n n s tlw Hodskins. who went wildly .larHIPd Uw biggPst priw of' thn al't1~r high-priend fnw agents lirsl. day of f'rPP agnncy. signing on thn f'irsl day thn last two widP rPrniv1•r I>Prrick Mason. ynars. was knPping onn ·or their whosP 1J(J ratriH~s f'or own -left tackle Chris TPnnnssPP last snason lnd all SarnuPis. whosn contract. was NI.'J. widP rPcPivors. rndone to provide morn salary And thP CIPvPiand Browns r.ap romn. lnrdPd <IPI'Pnsiw t<u~kiP (;erard Those wnre the major free WarrPn. thn third overall pick agents to sign on Day I of free in t.lw 200 I dran. to l>onver. It agency. 
was  an  overall  nnt loss f'or  Oakland  also  madn  an  
Clewland  - tlw  oxpneted splash by  
Browns will gel just a l'ourth­ "~{I Moss is not/the  offkially eomplnt­ing the deal for  
round draft rhoicn f'or tlw underachieving  best. he's certainly one ofthe best."  Handy trade week  Moss. a made last with  
Warren.  Minnesota.  Tho  
Tlw  ] 1-yPar­ Kerry Collins  Haidnrs gave  up  
old  Mason.  orw  Raiders quarterback  linebacknr  
ol' six Titans cut  Napoleon  Harris  
last month  in  a  and  two  draft  

salary 1~ap purgn, will join a pieks, onn of thnm the seventh loam whosn lnading receiver ovnrall in April's lottery. had just ;{5 catdws a ynar ago. Moss may not be the only 
"Wo wore high on his list, signil'ieant addition to the and hn was high on our list," Haiders' offense. Hav1ms gnneral managnr Ozzie They appeared elosn to sign­Nnwsonw said. "lin was really ing running back Lamont tlw only rncoiver we have had .Jordan, who spent four years any activo discussions with as Curtis Martin's backup with thus l'ar. What this does is, we tho New York .lets. lie aver­bring in a veteran receiver aged 4.9 yards per carry in who has tlw typo of attitude part-tirn1~ duty but has never and type of personality that we been a full-time back. look for in a football player." .Jordan should help, but Moss 
St. Louis, meanwhile, signed teamed with the re-signed ;{2-ymtr-old lirwbacker Dexter Jerry Porter is the seemingly Coakloy, one day after he was perfect combination for the rnloasnd by Dallas. strong arm of quarterback 

Kerry Collins. The big question is whether the offnnsivo line can protect the immobile and turnover-prone QB. 
Collins was delighted. 
"If he's not the best, he's cer­tainly one of the best," he said of Moss. "You can make a strong argument. Everybody has their own opinions. But ask any quarterback around the league which receiver they'd want, and I think most 
would say Handy Moss." 
As for Habach, who played at Wisconsin, he will probably replace another former Badger with the initials "CH," -Cory Haymer in the middle of the line. 
With Jon Jansen back from injury at right tackle and Samuels on the left side, the Washington offense should be stronger than last year's unit, which scored just 240 points, 

sneond f'nwest in tho NFL. 
In other developments: 
+Philadelphia re-signnd run­ning back Corrnll Buckhaltl~r. who missed all of last season with a knee injury. 
+Guard .Joe Andruzzi. a starter on all three of Nnw England's Super Bowl winnnrs, was in Cleveland talking to tho Browns, eoaehed by former Patriots' defensive coordinator Borneo Cronnnl. 

HORSE RACING 

Stnarty Jones' jockey detained by custotns 
Wietsma. a spoknswoman for
Associated Press Elliott. Thn joekny was ~~xpnl'l.­PIIILADELPIIIA-Kentucky nd to ap(War lwfore a fndnral Derby winning joekny Stewart judge Thursday. Elliott was on his way hack "This was an unforl.unat.n sit­from an ovnrseas trip whnn his uation. Thn arrest. was many past caught up with him again. years ago. I served my proba­Elliott. a Canadian eil.iznn tion and paid tlw litw," l·:lliott who won tho Derby and said in statnnwnt. rnloa.snd by Preakness aboard Smarty Wil'tsrna. "I thought. this was Jones last year, was taken into all hnhind mn." custody Tuesday and detained 1\lliott's criminal history by customs agents in eonnnr.­become puhlie during Smarty tion with a guilty plea to felony Jones' hid for thn Tripln assault four years ago, th1~ Crown, whieh fpll short wlwn Department of' llomnland he lost to Birdstotw by a lnngt.h Security said Wednnsday. at the Belmont Stakns in June. The 40-year-old Toronto lhit federal ol'l'idals said tlwy native was returning from a wnren't awarn ol' it until trip to Hong Kong latn last year recently. when f'nderal agnnts inter­"It takes tirnn for court viewed him at John F. Knnnedy records to get enternd," Van lntemational Airport in Nnw Pelt said Wednesday. "Then~ York. but let him go on his are tons of thousands o(' COn­way, said Homeland Security vietions that occur in thn spokesman Manny Van Pelt. Unitnd States llVIlry yoar." lin was asked to return to a Under f'nderal immigration Customs and Bordnr Protection law. aliens with fnlony convic­of'tice in Nnw York, whnrn ofli­tions are subj111~t to removal eials said he was arrested and from tho Unitnd St.atns. Van transferred to Immigration and Pelt dnelirwd to eornment on Customs Enforcement in Elliott's immigration status Philadelphia. spndlieally, hut said that lw "is Elliott was held at the York not hero illngally." County Prison in central A lawynr for Elliott said lwr Pennsylvania. lin was released elinnt voluntarily appnarnd shortly al'ter 5 p.m. bnf'orn tlw immigration eou rt Wednesday, said Knlly Tuesday. 







OUND THE NATION 
page 14 CoMPILED FROJ'v1 THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Thursday, March 3, 2005 
Men's College Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Illinois (31)  28-0  775  
2  North Carolina  24-3  742  
3  Kentucky  22-3  691  
4  Wake Forest  24-4  673  
5  Boston College  23-2  648  
6  Duke  21-4  579  
7  Kansas  21-4  555  
8  Oklahoma Slate  20-5  542  
9  Louisville  24-4  524  
10  Washington  23-4  499  
11  Arizona  24-5  480  
12  Michigan Stale  20-5  431  
13  Gonzaga  22-4  376  
13  Syracuse  24-5  376  
15  Utah  24-4  354  
16  Connecticut  19·6  276  
11  Pacific  23-2  272  
18  Charlolle  21-4  226  
19  Alabama  21-6  210  
20  Oklahoma  21-6  1.84  
21  Cincinnati  22-6  175  
22  Villanova  19-6  135  
23  Wisconsin  18-7  125  
24  PIHsburgh  1H  86  
25  Southern Illinois  24-6  43  

Women's College Basketball AP Top 25 
team record points 
1 LSU {45) 25-1 1,125 2 Stanlord 25-2 1.061 3 Ohio State 2·3 976 4 North Carolina 24-3 920 5 Tennessee 23-4 915 6 Duke 26-3 909 7 Baylor 23·3 887 8 Michigan State 25-3 881 
9 Rutgers 22·5 796 10 NOTRE DAME 24-4 746 11 Texas 19-7 618 12 DePaul 24-3 603 13 Texas Tech 21-5 568 14 Connecticut 19-7 534 15 Minnesota 22-6 500 16 Temple 24·3 462 17 Kansas State 20·6 344 18 Vanderbilt 21-6 331 19 N.C. State 20·6 314 20 Iowa State 21-5 257 21 Georgia 21-8 216 22 Boston College 18-8 164 23 Penn State 18·9 148 24 Gonzaga 25-2 106 25 Maryland 18-8 63 
Fencing Coaches' Association Rankings 
Women's Men's 
1 Ohio State 1 Ohio State 
2 NOTRE DAME 2 Penn State 
3 Penn State 3 St. John's (NY) 
4 Harvard 4 NOTRE DAME 
5 Columbia 5 Columbia 
6 Northwestern 6 Princeton 
1 St. John's (NY) 7 Penn 

8 Penn 8 Harvard 
9 Princeton 9 Stanford 
10 Temple 10 Air Force 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Georgia Tech at Wake Forest, 7 p.m, ESPN CHarlotte at Louisville, 7 p.m, ESPN 2 Purdue at Illinois, 9 p.m, ESPN2 
NBA 

Indiana at Denver, 8 p.m, TNT Detroit at Phoenix, 10:30 p.m, TNT 
NBA 

Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. -For all his popularity among the players and the fans, Portland Trail Blazers coach Maurice Cheeks ulti­mately didn't have the wins. 
Cheeks was fired Wednesday morning, after the Blazers had lost seven of their last nine and tum­bled to 22-33. 
"Our players liked Mo a great deal, but sometimes a fresh voice might ignite them to go in a different direction," Blazers general manager John Nash said. 
With Portland's chances of making the playoffs dwindling, the Blazers appointed Kevin Pritchard, the team's director of play­er personnel, as interim head coach. 
While not entirely giving up on the playoffs, Pritchard's appointment indicated the Blazers were going to focus on evaluat­ing their younger players. 
''I'm not going to mislead anybody. It's a long uphill battle to get to the playoffs from where we're at-11 games under .500," Blazers President Steve Patterson said. 
The Blazers are in 12th place in the Western Conference, six games back of the Los Angeles Lakers for the eighth and final playoff spot. They went 41-41 last season, missing the playoffs for the first time in 22 years. 

With the loss to the Pistons, Cheeks leaves the Blazers with a 162-139 record. He was in the final year of a four-year con­tract worth an estimated $12 million. 
Cheeks, who played in the NBA for 15 seasons, was hired by Portland in 2001 to replace Mike Dunleavy, who was also fired. 
The Blazers hardly made Cheeks' tenure easy -on and off the court. 
There were several play­ers cited for marijuana possession, and forward Qyntel Woods was investi­gated in a dog fighting scandal. 
Former Blazer forward Rasheed Wallace also drew unwanted attention to the team two seasons ago when he threatened a game official on the load­ing dock of the Hose Garden. 
Cheeks never shied away from questions about his team's misbehavior, bring­ing him the respect of fans and reporters who covered the team. 
He endeared himself to many in April 2003 when he came to the rescue of a 13-year-old girl, Natalie Gilbert, who forgot the words to the national anthem before a playoff game against the Dallas Mavericks. Cheeks went to her side and helped her with the words. 

IN BRIEF Colts release tight end 
Marcus Pollard 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis Colts released veteran tight end Marcus Pollard on Wednesday, sav­ing the team an immediate $2.65 million against the NFL salary cap. 
Colts President Bill Polian said the team hoped eventually to gefPollard back under a new contract and would welcome him next season if he does not sign with another team in the meantime. 
Pollard, the only team member to have played in both of the Colts' AFC Championship Game appearances in 1996 and 2004, said he had been expecting the move. Polian and coach Tony Dungy told him in person Wednesday morning, but paperwork for Pollard's release had not yet been completed late in the afternoon. 
''I've always dreaded this day because I didn't know how it would happen and how I would deal with it emotionally," he said. "But as far as how Bill and Tony handled it, I got cut, but I don't feel like I got cut, if that makes an.v, sense." Serena Williams rallies to 
reach Dubai quarters 
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates ­Australian Open champion Serena Williams overcame a rough first set and tricky wind Wednesday to beat Russia's Elena Bovina 1-6, 6-1, 6-4 and reach the Dubai Women's Open quarterfinals. 
Williams was making her first tour appearance since a stomach illness forced her to withdraw before the Paris Indoor quarterfinals last month. 
"I don't know what I was doing there tonight," she said. "I think I was trying to kill myself out there. It was really windy and I hadn't played in the wind. All my shots were going out of here." 
Top-ranked Lindsay Davenport had an easier time, defeating qualifier Jie Zheng of China 6-2, 7-5. Davenport will next meet Conchita Martinez, who ousted seventh-seeded Nathalie 

Dechy of France 6-1, 6-2. Former Atlanta pitcher
Rick Mahler dies at 51 
VIERA, Fla. -Rick Mahler, who won nearly 100 games during a 13­year career spent mostly with the Atlanta Braves, died Wednesday. He was 51. 
Mahler died of a heart attack at home in Jupiter, Fla., while prepar­ing for his second season as a minor league pitching coach for the New York Mets, the team said. He was set to rejoin the Mets' Class-A team in Port St. Lucie. 
New York pitcher Tom Glavine tele­phoned the Braves to inform them of his former teammate's death shortly before Atlanta played Georgia Tech in its first exhibition game of the spring. 
Mahler pitched in the majors from 1979-91, going 96-111 with a 3.99 ERA His best season came in 1985, when he went 17-15 with a 3.48 ERA for the Braves. The next year, he led the majors with 18 losses. 
r------------------------­
Thursday, March 3, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Irish prepare to face 'Cats 
By MATT PUGLISI 
Spuns Writl'r 
Hnvnngfl is a dish best served eold. 
No. 20 Notre Dame's opportu­nity to avenge last year's sea­son-ending NCAA tournament l'irst round I0-X loss to No. 3 Northwestern (3-0) comes rela­tively quickly. The Irish have only played onn regular-season game since the heartbreaking dnl'nat. Notrn Dame (1-0) will takn the revenge in whatever form it ean gnt it -cold, hot or in between. The Irish will have that chance this afternoon when thn rnd-hot Wildcats visit 
"As early as it is in the
thn Lol'lus to," Coyne said. Cent11r at 4::~o season, I think there's "We have prn. going to be a playoff respect for them 
Coach Tracy and what
type atmosphere 
Coyne expects they've done 
thn showdown to the game. " over the past to produce thn couple of years. high-levnl of We're just look­
Tracy Coyne 
nmotion typi­ing forward to
Irish coach 
eally reservnd for season­tmd. nlirnination contnsts and not the second game of' the year. 
"As early as it is in the sea­son, I think them's going to bn a playoll:. typn atmosplw!.'': to the gamn, Coyne said. Several months have passed since we've played tlwrn, but I still think tlwrn arn a lot of fenlings about how ltlw playoll' game last MayI wont that arn going to be nvi­dont in this game." 
Building a 6-4 advantagn by tho ond of the first hall' in the NCAA tournament l"irst round match-up, thn Irish worn unable to hold off the Wildcats as Northwestnrn rallind to net live of the second half's first six goals en route to the victory. 
The playoff loss wasn't the first time .last season that Northwestern rained on Notre Dame's parade -the Wildcats also handed the Irish the sec­ond of four consecutive losses after Notre Dame started last season by reeling oil' 10 straight victories. 
The pair of close, hard-fought contests between the two tal­ented squads has fueled a growing tension between the teams. 
"I think we definitely feel a rivalry towards Northwestern -one of those Gompctitive games that you look forward 
playing them." 
The Irish enter today's game on the heels of a season opening 16-10 stomping of Ohio University in Athens, Ohio last Sunday. 
Paced by attack Crysti foote's career-high eight points (five goals, three assists) and a pair of four-goal performances from sophomore midf1elder Meghan Murphy and freshman midfield­or Caitlin McKinney, the Irish scored flarly and oftfln in the victory. 
After jumping out to a quick 4-0 lead, Notre Dame allowed the Bobcats to get back into the contest before a pair of goal­scoring bursts finished ol'f host Ohio. 
While Foote's career-best per­formance was instrumental in the win, Coyne pointed to the play of Murphy and McKinney as particularly important, yet not surprising. 
"From what we were seeing in practice, II expected the high goal output!," Coyne said. "I was very pleased that Meghan and Caitlin both had four goals each -I think that was a good way for the season to start off." 
After rallying from a 5-2 half­time deficit to top then-No. 6 North Carolina Feb. 20, Northwestern trounced both Oregon and Denver 21-2 and 20-9, respectively, in its two most recent games this past weekend. 
Following the home face-off with the Wildcats, the Irish hit the road for a three-game spring break trip down the East Coast, where they will lock horns with Cornell, Vanderbilt and James Madison. Notes: 
+Two Notre Dame players took home conference awards this week for their play in last weekend's 16-10 victory over Ohio University. Foote was named Big East Offensive Player of the Week for her career-best eight point game (five goals, three assists) while midfielder Jess Mikula was pegged as the Big East Defensive Player of the Week. Mikula recorded two ground balls and five draw controls while causing a trio of turnovers in her team's victory over the Bobcats. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 

Denny Moore 
Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known., including personal integrity and character, comn1itment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, 
or fellow students. 
For a nomination form, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu 
No1nination..s· are due by Friday, March 4, 2005. 
MEN'S GOLF 

Kubinski already off to good start -with tea111 
Mark IBaldwin I and Eddie
Notre Dame takes 

IPeckels I and I together and first place in new this thing's over,"' Kubinski said. Hight al'ter that, hecoach's first tourney said, Cole lsban and Tommy Ba.lderston "looked at each 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
Already, Jim Kubinski has made his mark -one tour­nament, one win. 
The new Irish men's golf head coach joined the team at the end of January, and 30 days into his tenure as head coach, he has set the highest of standards for the rest of the season and the rest of' his career. 
That's fine with him, though. The important thing 
for  Kubinski  is  to  set  a  
precedent.  
Finishing  well  in  early  
tournaments is  
"important  


"For me, INotre
when you're The Irish had trying to Dame] was the just shot a team establish ered­score of 5-cJVer
perfect setting to 
ibility and 293 and vaulted
build a program. " 
build a pro­from l'il'lh al'ler gram," he the morning to said. "We've Jim Kubinski first by tlw after­started down noon.
Irish coach 
the right road. llonestly, I was hoping for a good finish, but to have a chance to win shows a lot about us." 
Kubinski led the Irish to more than just a good l'inish. He led the team to its first win sinee last April. 
After serving at Duke as an assistant coach since 2003, he accepted an offer lo join his long-time favorite university on Jan. 28 to replace John Jasinski as head coach. 
"At Duke I had to be a more of a closet fan Iof the Irish!." he said. "But for me, INotre Dame I was the per­feet setting to build a pro­gram." 
In the month since Kubinski joined the Irish, his main task has benn to instill a confidence in his golfers. 
"One, you've got to bnlieve in yourself ... and have that eonfideneP. that wn're going to go into tournaments lknowingl we're going to beat these guys," he said. 
lie saw that confidence on the 16th tee of tho English Turn Golf and Country Club Tunsday as his players pre­pared for their playoff with the University of North Carolina at Wilmington for the tournamnnt title. 
"When we found out we were going to have a fivn­person playoff EI"ie [Deutsch! said, 'you put other likn thoy'rq. never going to lose this thing." 
They didn't. 
That attitude, though, was not isolated to the tne of the playoff' holn. 
Kubinski stressnd that the Irish wnre calm, patie11t and determined throughout the 54-holo tournamnnt. 
"In the morning, they played okay," he said. "We just weren't making any putts. Then they came out in the aftt~rnoon and shot the low round of the day. 
"When things are rough out there, it just lakes a lot of patience. That's what I was impressed most about." 
lie had reason 
to be impressed. 
Af'tc~r falling 
behind to Wilmington on Tuesday, that calm demeanor rnturned towards thn end of the round. 
Notre Dame, down nearly a half-dozen, saw Wilmington's best golfer make a triple-bogey, and thn Irish were right back in the tournament. 
From thnn on, .Jasinski said, "everyone was very n~laxed. There was no panic." 
No panic, indeed. 
The Irish came back, tied tho Seahawks, and then won tho playoff convincingly, 2­under to 1-ovnr. 
"It's just remarkable .... For me, this was the perf'eet setting to build a program," Kubinski said. 
lie f'ollownd that snntnncn with a commnnt that provns the new coach trying to build a program is fully aeelimatnd to tho old school with its long-standing tradi­tions. 
"Notre Damn is what col­loge sports is all about," hn said. 
With wins likn this week's and words likn thosn, eoaeh Kubinski's ora as Notrn Dame's mnn's golf c:oaeh just started as smoothly as his players' swings. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 


..4543. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, Marcl13, 2005 
CLUB SPORTS 

Squash team reaches finals in national championship 
Men's volleyball falls in first round of Hoosier-Illini Classic 
Special to The Observer 
Notre-Dame made an auspi­cious debut in the Collegiate Squash Association national championships in Cambridge, Mass., this weekend. 
Playing in the emerging team division, the Irish reached the finals in their first participation in this pres­tigious event. 
Trinity won its seventh con­secutive national champi­onship, defeating Harvard in the finals. Forty-eight teams, most of them varsity, were entered in six divisions. 
The Irish opened quarterfi­nal play with a 5-0 blanking of Bard College. All five Irish players swept to vietory in three games. James Zhang at No. 1 defeated Brian Wolf. 9­0, 9-2, 9-1; at No. 2, Mike Gelinas defeated Hafael Ishnokov, 9-0. 9-0, 9-1; at No. 3, Phil Moss handled Trey Phillips, 9-3, 9-2, 9-4; Mike McConnell defeated Amwi lleredia at No. 4, 9-0, 9-0, 9­1; and Jose Polomo white­washed David Manning, 9-0, 9-0, 9-0. 
In the semifinals, coach Geoff McCuen's Irish again blanked their opponent, Bryant College, 5-0. Zhang defeated Eric Zipp, 9-2, 9-0, 9-1; Gelinas topped Eli Chernin, 9-0, 9-1, 9-2; Moss was a 9-5, 9-2, 9-3 victor over Steve Lamb; McConnell han­dled Steve Parry, 9-2, 9-5, 9­3; and Polomo won a close match over T J Euley, 10-9, 10-8, 9-2, to set up the show­down with Washington in the finals. 
Washington had also swept two opponents, USC and Kenyon, as the two squads proved to be the best in the division. The final, played at Harvard's Muir Gym, was competitive, but the Huskies proved the better squad. Zhang lost at No. 1 to Sawhill Ghandi, 9-6, 9-5, 9-6; Gelinas claimed the only point for the Irish at No. 2, 10-8, 9-1, 6-9, 9-5; Moss fell at No. 3 to Norman Wilson, 9-0, 9-3, 9-0; McConnell dropped the No. 4 match to Ryan Antonio, 9-1, 9-0, 9-4; and Polomo was unable to sustain his early momentum, falling at No. 5 to .Ritwik Kejriwal, 0-9, 0-9, 9-6, 10-9, 9-7. USC won the losers 
· bracket to finish third in the division. 
Men's Volleyball 
The Irish men's club volley­ball team participated in the largest regular season tour­nament in the Midwest over the weekend, attending the Fourth Annual Hoosier-Illini Classic at Indiana University. Forty total teams were there including 12 of the top 25 teams in the country. 
The Irish won the first match handily against the Wildcats of Kentucky, 25-21, 25-16, outplaying them on all fronts. In their second match of the day Notre Dame faced Virginia Tech and played an exciting up-and-down contest. 
The Hokies stole the first game from the Irish by rally­ing to win the final four 
points of the game, ending 25-23. 
This inspired the Irish to fight back, and they dominat­ed Virginia Tech in the second game, winning 25-13, but Tech trumped Notre Dame in the final game, 15-8, to win the match. A flat Notre Dame squad took the floor in the final match of pool play against No. 10 Purdue, and they paid the price, losing 25­16, 25-18. 
The Irish took on Miami of Ohio in the challenge round, having success in a very com­petitive match to make it to the Gold Bracket in Sunday's tournament round. The victo­ry (25-21, 27-25) was aided by strong play from Ryan Goes, who stepped out of his normal role of middle blocker to play outside hitter. 
The Irish played one of their best matches all season against host Indiana (No. 16) in the first match of the tour­nament round. In an 8 a.m. match against the hometown heroes, Notre Dame came to life in the first game, jumping out to an early lead and never looking back, taking Game 1, 25-14. 
With freshman setter Nolan Kane running the offense, the Irish got several open looks, and hitters Mike Giampa, Joe O'Connell, Dan Parziale, Dan Zibton, and again Goes were putting the balls away hard. Revitalized by their fan sup­port, the Hoosiers regrouped for a great Game 2, and the Irish did what they could with solid blocking and great defense from Kevin Overmann and John Tibbie, but fell 25­21. 
Tibbie was making incredi­bly plays all weekend as libero, and was even compli­mented during the match by the captain of Indiana after making two diving saves in one volley. 
Game 3 was very intense, with the score tight through­out, but Indiana eventually pulled out the win 18-16 in a heartbreaking loss for the Irish. 

this year. The first three duos have seen plenty of doubles play already this season. Playing at the No. 1 slot will be senior cap­tain Brent D'Amico and sopho­more Ryan Keckley. 
"Our No. 1 team has had some real bright spots this year, but also some poor matches," Bayliss said. "But they've played extremely well and it looks like they're beginning to gel, just in time for this stretch run here at the last half of the season." 
Junior Erie Langenkamp and freshman Sheeva Parbhu com­prise the No. 2 team and sopho­mores Stephen Bass and Barry King will play as the No. 3 team. Junior Patrick Buchanan and sophomore Irackli Akhvlediani will round out the Irish duos entered in the event. 
"Eric and Sheeva have been a little more consistent, but they've had a couple matches in a row that they didn't play well," Bayliss said. "So it was great to see them rebound [against Virginia]. The biggest concern is at No. 3. We have good tennis players who can do different things well -some serve well, some return well and some volley well -but we're looking for the whole package." 

Notre Dame has been busy with dual match play in the last few weeks. The next few days should provide a relaxed, yet competitive, atmosphere for the Irish as they prepare for the season's stretch run. The team will conclude the weekend with a dual match against St. Joseph's at noon on March 6. 
Contact Ranta Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 


MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish travel west for tourney 
Pacific Coast Doubles Championship should give team good practice 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Sports Writer 
The forecast for the next few days is sunny and 70 degrees ­in California. It should be a wel­come respite· for the men's ten­nis team, which heads out to La Jolla, Calif., to take part in the Pacific Coast Doubles Championships March 3-6. 
For the seventh time in the last eight years, Notre Dame (10-3) will compete in this annu­al doubles competition, one of the oldest and most prestigious tennis tournaments in the nation. The names of winners at the event feature a who's who of tennis greats, including John McEnroe and Stan Smith. 
While the competition fea­tures a few professionals and a few junior players, the field con­sists primarily of college play­ers. Because there are non-col­legiate players in the event, the results do not count in the col­lege rankings and should pro­vide valuable practice opportu­nities for the Irish. 
"It's something that we look forward to very much," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "It gives us an opportunity to make the transition to outdoors. This tournament allows us to do this where the results don't hurt us and yet the level of competition is as good as anything we'll see all year, including the NCAA Championships." 
Among the slated teams entered in the event are Stanford, UCLA, USC and Pepperdine -all top 20 teams. These schools will enter some of their nationally-ranked doubles teams in the tournament, pro­viding plenty of competition for Notre Dame's own tennis duos. 
"It's hard not to improve because you're surrounded by some of the top doubles teams in the country," Bayliss said. "You're forced to meet that level of competition so all our guys benefit from being here." 
The Irish will enter four dou­bles teams into the competition 


HOLY CROSS COl.LEGE 
HALL DIRECTOR NEEDED AT HOLY CROSS COLLEGE MEN'S HALL 
GRAD STUDENTS 
LAW STUDENTS 
IF INTERESTED CONTACT RESLIFE@HCC-ND.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION 
Thursday, March 3, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 


Victory 
continued from page 20 
up at all. 
On Wednesday, the Irish shot 53.3 percent from tho linld and held Hutgnrs to 29.5 J>Prcnnt from thn floor. 
"We knew that we were going to have an edge about us bncausn of how we prac­tinHI this whole wnnk," point guard Chris Thomas said. 
Wlwn Notre Damn players showed up for practice Monday al'ter·noon, they were not allowed in the locker room. But Thomas said the motivational tactics of coach Mikn Brny worn not negative. 
"We haven't been on punish­ment," hn said. "llis thnme 
was we have to got back to playing like how people rnspect us. We rnally don't get any rnspect." 
Thorn as scored I 0 points and dishnd a respp,ctabln 12 assists while com­mitting only one turnover, whiln Colin Falls scornd a team-high 1 X 
points and Chris Quinn add!1d 14. 
Quinn limped off the court towards the middl!1 of the sec­ond half' and did not return. Coach Mikn Brey said Quinn's status for Saturday as of now is questionable. 
Thomas, meanwhiln, did not forcn much on offnnsn and ignitnd scoring in the second half. · 
"I was prntty much being a dncoy on ol'fensn the wholn game and just waiting to piek my spots," Thomas said. 
With undnr 11 minutes rnmaining, the Irish were up 

Chris Thomas, left, drives past the defense of Ricky Shields 
Wednesday night. 
49-41, but the Scarlet Knights rattled ofT three straight buck-· nts to cut the lead to two. When Hkk Cornett dunked but then Hutgers Quincy Douby 
"We knew that we were going to have an edge about us because ofhow we practiced this whole week. " 
Chris Thomas Irish point guard 
(19 points) canned two free throws out of' a timeout, Thomas answered with two pull-up jumpers to hold the Notre Dame lead. 
"I think f'orced a couple threes early just trying to get going and 
coach told me to let the game come to me, and I had some open looks there in the second half," Thomas said. 
A Thomas bucket with 5:51 left put the Irish up 55-49. After a few Hutgers misses and some Irish free throws, Notre Dame gained its largest lead of 12 (66-54) before earning the 1 0-point victory. 
"Those teams at the bottom of our league don't have a lot of wins," Brey said. "But I don't think of them as teams at the bottom of our league." 
Brey said he did underesti­mate Hutgers because he knows how the Irish battled against other "bottom" teams in three onn-point conference wins. 
On Jan. 5, the Irish defeated Seton Hall on a Falls :~-point­er. On Jan. 15, they beat St. John's, 67-66. And on Feb. 19, the Irish edged Providence, 62-61. 
Notre Dame led 30-29 at the half, despite shooting 52.4 percent to Hutgers' 27.6 per­cent from the field. 
The Scarlet Knights scored the first basket of the game on a Marquis Webb 3-pointer. Douby scored 13 points in the first half, including two free throws to make the score 26­25 just before the 3:54 televi­sion timeout. 
Scarlet Knights' center Jimmie Inglis canned two free throws to make the score 27­26 Rutgers, but Torin Francis followed with a bucket to give the Irish a 28-27 lead in the fourth lead change of the half. 
Thomas scored his first points of the game on two foul shots with 57.5 seconds remaining, and Notre Dame went into halftime with the lead. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


Defense 
continued from page 20 
ing 53 percent compared to Hutgers' 30 percent, and a 68­58 victory seems disappoint­ing, especially for a team marching to the NCAA tcmrna­ment. 
But Mike Brey knew bnttnr. 
"I fully expected a battle," he said. 
Going by Big 

East standards, "I fully expected a upset in the first maybe this one round of next
battle." 
was a blowout. week's Big East 
Brey pointed out tournament. A in Notre Dame's Mike Brey IJ-7 rncord in the three other wins Irish head coach deepest confnr­
against the Big East's cellar dwellers -Seton Hall, St. John's and Villanova -the Irish survived by a com­bined three points. 
So Wednesday night's 10­point victory could be classi­fied as a pre-Spring Break cruise for this Irish team. 
The Irish won this game with what's been emphasized dur­ing the two days of practice leading up to Wednesday's game -defense. 
Jordan Cornette jumping out in the ence play for the firth straight year, somnthing only Syraeusn has done in the Big East dur­ing the same time pnriod. That simple statemnnt Brey can lean on to promotn his pro­gram to the media, fans and recruits. 

For this season, a winning record in conf'nrencn makes a major statemnnt to the NCAA tournament committee, even if the Irish lose to Pittsburgh Saturday and gnt 
"We know we're an
passing lanes, East team has forcing passes NCAA caliber team ever won f'o u r closer to half­games in four
and most ofthe 
court than the 3-days at Madison
time we show that, 
point line. Square Garden. 
Chris Quinn but there are times The Irish are swatting passes we don't." leaving all of that out of bounds. prognos tication, 
Dennis Latimore at least publicly,
Chris Thomas 
and Torin Francis to thn media. stepping out on Irish point guard Chris Thomas 
ence in Amnrica moans the Irish are worthy of 

getting thnir namn called on Selection Sunday. 
The Irish still control their postseason destiny. A win Saturday gets them to 10-6 in the Big East and all but guar­antees thnm in the NCAA tour­nament. A win Saturday also gets them a· bye in the Big East tournament, meaning thny would have to win thrne games in New York to wrap up the league's auto­matic bid. No Big 
pick-and-rolls to disrupt the Rutgers offense's flow. 
All of that led to Hutgers shooting 29.5 percent from the field overall, an emphasis for the Irish in every game they play, but especially so Wednesday night. 
"That was a main goal, field goal defense," Cornette said. "UCLA came in here and shot the lights out." 
That's the short-term posi­tive from the win. 
Now for the long-term posi­tive -getting to 9-6 in the conference. 
It doesn't sound too impres­sive, but putting it in perspec­tive definitely does. 
The win guarantees the Irish a winning record in confer-



Students 
Fly Cheaper 
spring break. study abroad &more 
didn't bite on the question Wednesday night. 
''I'll leave that to Digger," Thomas said. "He'll be the one to do that." 
But don't kid yourself that the Irish aren't doing some projecting of their own. 
"That stays in the locker room," Thomas said. "We know we're an NCAA-caliber team and most of the time we show that, but there are times we don't." 
Just like Wednesday night. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. ' Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd. edu 




page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 3, 2005 

Acadentic 
continued from page 20 
points are earned. lleisler said that one of the main advantages of the APR is the relevancy of the numbers. 
"I think we're all usnd to dealing with the graduation rates that have not been completely up to date because of the len~-,tth of time they permit for the graduation to take place or for the recording process,'' he said. "In some cases, you're talking about people who enrolled eight or nine or 10 years ago, where as this is a completely up-to-date measurement for the most recent academic year." 
Heisler said that in order for the APR to take full effect, there is going to be a learning process for all NCAA schools. 

"I think it is a learning experi­ence for everyone to have an appreciation for what the numbers mean, and in the case of anybody who falls short of the 1,000 mark, how does that happen?" Heisler said. "It's going to take a while for everyone to appreciate exactly what it is that causes you to not receive the full complement of points." 
The lowest numbers at Notre Dame came in football, where the Irish scored a 934. But Heisler said this number can be deceiving because of the unique way Notre Dame handles fifth-year seniors in the program. 
At Notre Dame, fifth year seniors are often not eligible in the second semester of their fifth year per the NCAA standards because they are not taking the minimum number of credits. 
"There's a little bit difference in philosophy in terms of the compu­tation that was probably affected to some effect by some fifth year people," Heisler said. 'That may be the kind of thing that you go back to the drawing board and explain a little about how each sport works." 
Despite the fact that the APR will be used to compare all schools in the NCAA, Heisler said the num­ber doesn't necessarily tell the whole story of student-athletes at their respective schools. Different schools have different standards for student-athletes, as the NCAA allows them to, and this could dis­tort the APR to an extent. For example, at Notre Dame, student-athletes have to maintain a 2.0 grade-point average, a standard enforced by the University, not the NCAA. 
"In some cases, our numbers are a reflection of our own eligibil­ity standards, which are not neces­sarily the samn as other people's," Heisler said. "In some cases, you're not always comparing apples to apples, because what the NCAA requires .is a one-time per year certification of an athlete in terms of their eligibility. So once that certification takes place, the NCAA doesn't worry how that per­son has done academically until the time comes to certify every­body again." _ 
Heisler also expressed concern that at Notre Dame, the numbers might not always accurately reflect a school's progress in aca­dernics. 
"In some cases, our numbers may reflect that our student-ath­letes are being held to higher stan­dards," he said. 
A<> far as the overreaching effect of APR, Heisler said it will rein­loren to schools that they need to bring in student-athletes that can make in it in the classroom as well as in the athletic realm. 
"I think it's probably going to makP coaches in particular think twice about anybody that they recruit and their ability to be suc­cessful academically, because your program could be penalized if you are recruiting and giving scholar­ships to people that aren't going to make it," Heisler said. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


Panzica 
continued from page 20 
After missing the Bouts his sophomore year due to a case of mono, Panzica slugged his way to the finals of the 155 lb. weight class his junior season. Once there, he lost to teammate Nathan Lohmeyer. 
"Last year, it was a big achievement for me to be in the finals," the Cleveland native said. "I think I was more in awe of being there." 
With the finals defeat in mind. Panzica has trained over three hours per day, six days per week since boxing season started in January. 
"I usually try to get to prac­tice 45 minutes to one hour early just to work on some individual things," Panzica said. 
Spending all that time in the boxing room, Panzica has formed a close bond with many of the 127 club mem­bers, but especially with the four other captains. 
"I definitely admire and respect the other captains for the amount of work they put into boxing," Panzica said. "It's a great group of guys and we just keep each other going." Panzica is a finance major and will be working in the real estate business next year. Though the corporate world can be competitive, it will be tough to match the adrenaline rush he receives from boxing. 
"It's a feeling I've never had before in any other sporting event," Panzica says of the Bouts. "Because all eyes are on you." 
All proceeds from the Bengal Bouts go to Holy Cross missions, a fact which Panzica is proud of. 
"What makes the Bengal Bouts so great it is that it is a completely selfless event," Panzica said. "There's a hun­dred-plus kids doing this purely for the fact of raising money for people on the other side of the world. I think it's unbelievable how unselfish that is." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at 
mgilloon@nd.edu 
'·n 




Now, 

Thursday, March 3, 2005 The Obsaver +TODAY page 19 




PEANUTS 
TI-IEN I KICKED IT ACR055 T~E FIELD! 
= 
AND TI-IER.E IT 15, R161-lT 
RATS! I 

Wl-lERE I LEFT IT! 
COULDN'T CRAWL FAST ENOUGH .. 
HENRI ARNOLD 


JUMBLE 

.. MIKE ARGIRION 
Unscramble these lour Jumbles. 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TOlD I 
1 
rJ t J 
C2005 Tribune Medl8 ServiCes. Inc 

,~~,~~rr [) 
ARQUEV 
WHAT THE: KIDS
rJ b 
FAC.E:D AFTE:R
www.Jumble com 
DINNE=R.
tPERUSH 1 j 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as

J I r I I 
suggested by the above cartoon 
Pulswer: 

A"[ I I I J-rI I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

Yesterday's J Jumbles: AIDED PLAID WEAKEN AUTHOR Answer: What the tipsy gambler and the dice had in common-THEY WERE "LOADED" 
~-:-~---~=============------=====================================================================================
__  
CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  30 Letters in  57 What's brewing,  
1 Appear  Icelandic  perhaps  
4 KLM competitor  31 "Yay, team!"  58 Tolkien monster  
7 Promulgate  32 Patronizes, as a  59 Tempers  
10 Help the crew  restaurant  so Knave  
11 Paprika­powdered serving 15 One doing  33 Make compact, with "up" 35 Groups on horseback  61_degree 62 Lily Tomlin character Edith  
checks and balances?  39 Parking place 40 Particle flux  63 Shaker_, 0.  
16 Election day:  density symbols  
Abbr.  44 Ouechua­ DOWN  
17 "Not true!"  speaking  1 Gallery event  
18 TV cartoon dog  45 79 for gold,  2 Terse verse  
19 Stain  e.g.: Abbr.  3 Like L,  
21 Bicycle maker since 1895  46 Neither this nor that, in Peru  alphabetically 4 Where to order  
23 Some sports cars, for short  47 Rob Reiner's father  tekka maki 5 Like  
24 "Out of Africa" novelist Dinesen 26 Niche at Notre Dame  48 Chichen (Mayan city) 49 Hearts 50 Gossipy group  6 Some dips 7 Newspaper publisher who founded the  
27 Baltic Sea  52 Lug  United Press  
viewer, maybe 28 Rudiments 29 Cleaning cloths  54 In place 55 Horace's "Ars  8 Briny expanse 9 Most pale 11 Beats it, out of the city  32 Opposite of endo­33 Upper body:  38 A dash, maybe 40 Kitty 41 Time for one  49 The New Yorker cartoonist Addams  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

Abbr.
12 Not needing a doing time 51 Marienbad, for 
prescription: 34 Occidental, e.g. 42 Words of one Abbr. emphasis
35 Harasses 53 D with 50% off 13 Twisted 
36 Ready for 43 Some pot 56 Number of one­14 Restrainqd anything scrubbers 
voweled, seven-laugh 45 Acropolis figure 
37 No-go at the letter words in 20 Some are wild track 48 Pointer's target this puzzle 22 "You're going 
too fast for me!" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 25 "Hogan's 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Heroes" 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaysergeant 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 28 Meteor paths 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
29 "Do _ Diddy past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Diddy" (1964 #1 Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young hit) solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST






HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON TillS DAY: Jon Bon Jov1, -B; Laramc Newman. 
53: Lou Rcud, 63: Jennifer Jones, ~6 lll1ppy llii-thday: Everylhing is beginning Ill fall inlll pla<:e. Times an~ <:hangmg, bul lhe .:hanges are good. Lei goof allihal's unnecessary from I he pas! and dear !he way for bigger and bc11cr limes. Take on new proJecls. Jearn new skills and make a promise IO yourself !hal you will no longer harlx1r iJJ f,·cJings aboul wh;ll\ over and done wilh. Your numbers arc I, 16. I 9, 28. 33. -t2 ARIES (1\larch 21-April 19): Don'1 gel angry--gel moving. You have 10 ask yourself whm you wam ami go alkr i1. (iclling upscl wilh someone who lnes 10 sabolage you is just a waste of lime. Rise above ;my conflicl. ••• TAlJRlJS (Aprii20-May 20): li's nol aboul whal you gel back btlllruly aboul whal,you give. You can 1urn a negative inlo a posilive. by taking action and moving forward. Someone you know will open your eye~ 10 some1h1ng you overlooked. *** GEMINI (May 21-.lune 20): Nmhing should stand in your way wh<:n 11 comes to gelling your work or duties out of the way. You may not be lhinkmg stra1ght. so double check everything you do. Someone is likely to lei you down. *** CANCER (.June 21-July 22): Use your cha1m 10 gel what you want. Someone you meet will take a serious inlerest in you. You will find oul somelhing aboul your background 1ha1 will make a difference 10 your future. Love is apparent.••••• LEO (July B-Au~. 22): Somelhing isn'l righl bu1 you can't pul your fing~r on 
il. Don't leave anything 10 chance, especially if it involves a comracl. a legal or financial matter or anything 10 do with your home and family. You can h<: a hero if you stay on top of things. ••• VIRGO (Au~. 23-Scpt. 22): You can have it all 1oday just by slanding up and pushing for whai_ you believe. Parlnerships may he tense al first, bul as the day progresses you should be able to smooth things over. An energetic approach In everything you do will bring resulls. •••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your mimi should be on whal 10 do ncx1 in 1crms of work. money and gelling ahead. Don't think 100 big, or you will miss oul on an opporlunity that has a greater potential for longevity. llon'l be 111 loo big a hunY *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can'! go wrong as long as you lake lhL' initiative and mak~ those all-lmpol"lanl phone calls. Your crea11 vc Iakili 1s htgh. so lake adva111agc of the ideas Ihal pop inlo your h..:ad. Short 1nps will lead Ill new connections. ••• SAGITTA RillS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): You won'! sec cvcrylhlllg !hal ts going on around you. Someone may try 10 lake advanlag<: of you cmolionally and menially. Pr.:pare 10 face a .:halknge head-on. If somclhing doesn't seem tighl. ask qucsllon' 
before giving your word.*** 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): You've gol cverylhing going your way as long as you don't lake on too much. The key will be moderation and graciousness. Once you masler lhcse 1wo quali1ies you will have everyone ca1ing ou1 or your hand. **** AQliARHIS (.Jan. 20-Feh. 11!): Focus on work and learning and forge! ahoul whal's going on around you alan emolionallcvel. As long as you proleCI yoUI·,eJr from dishonest people you will do just fine. l'ul you firs! and work 1owarc.l a better fuiUre. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-1\Jarch 20): Love, romance and partnerships are Jook1ng good. Your unique approach to c·vcrylhing you do will bring you a lot or a\Lcnlion today. You will be in 1unc with people you deal with. knowing exaclly how 10 mampulale the situalion to get whal you want. ••••• Birthday Baby: You arc imaginmive, artis1ic and innovatiw. You are inleresiL'd in anylhing !hal is peculiar or unusual. You arc sensitive. loving and kind. 
Cited 11111 Eugenia's Web sites at astmwh·il'e.r·om al/l/ eugenia/a.,·t.r'!J/11. 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name _____________________ Address ___________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 


THE OBSERVER 


PORTS
Thursday, March 3, 2005 
page 20 
NCAA ATHLETICS 
Notre Dame passes NCAA's first academic test 
New academic progress rate information shows Irish above minumum requirements for Division I teams 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 

More than half of Division I sports teams had at least one sub­par academic progress rate (APR), according to NCAA statistics released Monday, but Notre Dame was not one of them. 
The newly formulated academic standard shows that the Irish are 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame downs Rutgers Wednesday at the Joyce Center 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 

Notre Dame is one win away from earning a bye in the Big East Tournament. 
Needing wins in its final two conference games to secure the No. 5 seed. the Irish took care of half See Also the battle by "MORE THAN beating 
JUST

Rutgers (9­17, 2-13 Big NUMBERS" East), 66-56, 

IRISH INSIDER 

at the Joyce Center Wednesday night. 
Notre Dame (17 -9, 9-6) had lost its previous two contests to UCLA and Connecticut, games in which the Irish defense played subpar or did not show 
see VICTORY/page 17 

above the minimum rate in every Division I sport they partieipate in, and have perfect scores in 13 of22 sports, according to the data, which is based on the 2003-04 school year. Only Duke had more teams with perfect scores in Division I-A, with 15 of 24 teams registering 1,000 on the 1,000 point scale. 
With the new rules by the NCAA, teams would face scholarship loss­es if a sport underperforrued per the standard. For example, teams that don't meet the NCAA mini­mum would lose a scholarship if a player leaves because he or she is academically ineligible. However, these penalties won't be enforced until next fall. 
Points are awarded based on a player-by-player basis, taking into account whether the player remains at the school, and remains academically eligible so that he or she graduates. The maximum points a team can earn is 1,000, and the NCAA minimum is 925 -the number the NCAA says is equivalent to a 50 percent graduation rate. 
"I think this is a little bit of a learning experience, an education­al process for probably everybody involved," Notre Dame senior associate athletic director John Heisler said. "The fact that this is a different way of going about meas­uring academics and graduation 

.Goodknight 



rates, and it's a more current set of criteria that what's been avail­able in the past." 
With the new standard, a team can earn up to two points per player, per year. If a player trans­fers or leaves early for a profes­sional draft, he or she earns one point. But if that same athlete leaves because he or she is aca­demically ineligible, then zero 
see ACADEMIC/page 18 
Renewed emphasis on defense plays key role in Irish victory 
It would have been natural to expect a blowout. 
Called for a midnight prac­tice hours after the UCLA embarrassment and forced out 
of their lock­er room because of a "wiring" problem prior to Monday's afternoon practice, the 

Irish should Matt Lozar have been pretty ticked off heading Senior Staff into Wedn-Writer esday night's home game against a 2-12 Rutgers squad that hasn't won a conference road game since January 2004. 
Then looking at just field goal percentage in the box score, with Notre Dame shoot-
see DEFENSE/page 17 

BENGAL BouTs 



Senior captain ready for hard work to pay off 
punches and one dazed look capturing his first Bengal tonight as he faces Bryan "My older sister would tell By MIKE GILLOON 
after the second-round fight Bout title when the finals Grissinger in a Bengal Bouts me how cool it was to watch Sports Writer 
started, Panzica knew he had take place on March 19. quarterfinal fight beginning the fights," Panzica, a team a long way to go if he wanted "A championship would def­at 6 p.m., in the Joyce Center captain, said. "Initially I was 
Mike Panzica has been to be a Bengal Bouts champi­initely be a great end to these Fieldhouse. just looking for a regular scared only once in a boxing on. four years of boxing," Panzica joined the boxing workout. But after doing it ring. He was a freshman at Four years later, Panzica is Panzica said. "It would pretty club his freshman year and every day, I got to meet a lot the time and climbed inside close to reaching his goal. much make everything worth first heard about the Bengal of great guys and a lot of the ropes to face the top­He's a senior and one of the all the effort." Bouts from a sister who good friends." seeded senior in his weight top seeds in the 155 lb. The first step on the final attended Notre Dame before class. Ten seconds, two weight class and has hopes of leg of his journey begins him. see PANZICA/page 18 

MEN'S TENNIS CUJB SPORTS WOMEN'S lAX MEN1S GOlf 
NBA 
NFL 

Irish head to California Squash team falls in Notre Dame gets Kubinski off to a good 
Portland Trail Blazers 
Ravens sign former 

for Pacific Coast Doubles National Championship ready to face No. 3 start as Notre Dame's 
fire head coach Maurice 
Titans receiver Derrick 
Cheeks. 
Mason.

Championship ThursdaS finals Wednesday. Northwestern ThursdaS new coach. 
page 1 page 16 page 1 
page 15 

page 14 
page 13 






