~ ~­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
--l~-~· Crime and ~~·,i.\)
Jl·' A.. A six-part series on discipline at Notre Dame 1\P 
Confusion swirls over policy enforcement 
Tho University stands by its dis­climb into her bed, where they
By MADDIE HANNA ciplinary system while acknowl­began to talk -and fell asleep. 
A~socimc News Ediror edging the inherent difficulty in Flash forward to 2:30 a.m., a 
the process. phone call and a knock on the 
Tlw Notrn I>anw rumor mill is "Is it imperfect'? Absolutely," door that awakened the two stu· in business, churning out "did­said Bill Kirk, associate vice presi­dents. you-lwar" storins of unwarrantnd dnnt !'or student affairs. "It's an "One of the assistant rectors llnsl.ifns doled out by the adminis­ed ueational process. Ideally we announced that she was coming tration. Allngal.ions of unequal would be able to find the way to into the room and opened the tn~atnwnt swirl, angering some bnst edueate each individual with door," the junior said. "It was not students whill~ confusing others. what's going on. That's not always until she turned on tho lights and 
Tho talk may or may not be possible. I think we do our best, asked [my boyfriend] to leave the trtHl, hut one thing is dear -and I think the folks in Hesidence room with her that I noted the many students believe the Life take a personal interest in time, 2:30 a.m., and understood Univnrsity's rules and regulations each ease, they deal personally that it was past parietals. The AR. arn not always fairly or uniformly with a lot of those students, so said nothing else to me, other nnl'orend. they try to tailor a lot or those than asking for my name." 
"That's Llw thing about HesLife punishmnnts and penalties. But The junior's boyfriend entered -you never know what the pun­it's imperfect." the lobby of her dorm at 1:45 ishment is going to bn. They can a.m., she said, and signed in with treat you normally and· fairly, or "I was completely terrified" the resident assistants -a stan­tlwy could be so harsh you could­It was a Friday night, and the dard practice in this dorm during n't imagine," said a female junior female junior had returned from football weekends. who wished to remain anony­a gathering off-campus with her "I felt like it was pretty obvious mous. frinnds and dozed orr in her bed. we weren't trying to break pari­
Slw madn her lirst trip to the It was 12:30 a.m. etals," she said. "Why would he Offiee of Hesidence Life and Shn was stirred by the sound of sign in 15 minutes before? I Housing earlier in tlw semester her boyfriend entering the room. for a parietals violation. Still drowsy, she asked him to see POLICYIpage 8 

Women's College. Feminist College? 
By EMILY LAVELLE AND 
LAUREN LAVELLE 
News Writers 
'111is is the first in a three part series t•.ramininy tht• pt'rl't•ption offeminism within the ,\'aint Mary's Coileye t·ormmmiIy. 
Whilf' tho identity of Saint Mary's as an all-wonwn 's institution is widPly rnlnhrai.IHI and Willi puhlidzed. onn dnl'inilion rnmains loss dear ­whPihPr or not l.lw College can dnsaihn itsPif as a fnminist environ­mPnt. 
Forty ynars allPr tlw snxual mvolu· lion, f'Pminism n•mains a polarizing issun on campus. Studnnts' poreop­tions of fmninists vary drastically ­from artivisL<; lobbying li1r nqual pay in thn workplanl to wonwn burning bras on tlw steps of the Capitol Building. 
Saint Mary's studnnl body prnsidnnt Kelly Mitros mealled one instance in which she fully realized the division rngarding feminism at Saint Mary's. 
"In one of' my art history classes, my prolilssor asked who in the dass was a liHninist." Mitros said. "I was the only one who raised her hand. I eouldn't nvnn bnlieve it. I looked around the room at these othor women and thought. 'You've got to bn kidding me.' I got a dirty look from nvnry single onn of them." 
Mitms said the wonwn in 1-ier class oxprnssed tlwir bnlief that being a (ilminisl mmmt having hairy legs and burning bras. Mitros said she views li~minism in a difl{mmt light. 
"To me, feminism is being able to make your own choices concerning your lifo ... without fooling that you have to fit someone's preconeeived definition about what a woman should bn," Mitros said. 
see FEMINISM/page 6 


Malloy inducted into South Bend Hall of Fame 
Monk as given to Notre Dame and to all of us," said Robert Nagle, a South Bend Alumni Assoeiation member and the banquet's emcee. "He has promoted community service and worked to combat sub­stance abuse through mem­bership in the Boys and Girls Club of America, the National Advisory Council on Alcohol and Drug Abuse and the Governor's Committee for a Drug-Free Indiana." 
Malloy accepted the award with a bowed head and a 
see MALLOY/pagc 9 


Kernan to teach at University 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
Joseph Knrnan. former govnrnor of Indiana, has been hirod by tho Notro Damn political scinnc.n department to tl'lH'.h a singlo credit, gubernato­rial leader· ship snmi· nar begin­ning next year, acting chair of political science John Hoos said. 
Kernan's class, titled "The Executive Branch and Public Poliey," will have about 20 students and will be offered during the spring semester of 2006, according to a University press release. 
"Joe has an enormous lifn experience or balancing multi-billion dollar budgnts, dealing with a state legisla­ture, working in the gover­nor's ol'fiee and being mayor of South Bend for nine years," Hoos said. "lie has a wide range of political expe­rinnce he ean share with his students. lin's a real loader." 
Kernan's class will focus on 

see KERNAN/page 4 


By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
University President Emnritus Father Edward "Monk" Malloy .was formally inducted into the South Bend Hall of Fame Tuesday, prov­ing that his influence as president of Notre Dame stretched far beyond the imrnndiate campus. 
The 19th annual II all of Fame Banquet was held at the Cnntury Center in down­town South Bend. Five com­munity loaders were induct­ed into the Hall of Fame, each representing different aspects of public service. The South Bend Alumni Association hosted the ban­quet. 

The purpose of the llall of Fame is to recognize individ­uals whose accomplishments have left a lasting impaet on the city. Malloy was honored for his commitment to the South Bend community and for tho unifying force he has provided between South Bend and Notre Dame. 
"We could go on for an hour about all the things 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, November 16, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The BCS vvorks? 
Bowl Championship Series. Are there any other three words that inspire more disgust and the occa­sional expletive from any college football fan worth their salt. 
Auburn went undefeated last Greg Arbogast season, in the 
SEC nonetheless, and was left out Sports Writer of the national 
championship game. Two years ago, Oklahoma lost by more than four touchdowns to Kansas State in the Big 12 cham­pionship game and made making the national championship game. Four years ago, Nebraska lost to Colorado, yet was still chosen over 1 0-1 Oregon for the national cham­pionship game, where they proceed­ed to lose by 23 points to Miami. 
Every year there is inevitably some controversy surrounding the BCS at the end of the season. Except this year. 
It looked as though this season would finally be the year that proved the irreconcilable flaws of the BCS. However, thanks to losses by Georgia, Alabama and Virginia Tech all within the last three weeks, the BCS escaped yet another disaster. 
But the BCS didn't just escape dis­aster. It has been put on a crash course for one of the best college football games in recent memory. 
Barring Heggie Bush, Matt Leinart and Vince Young all simultaneously breaking their legs within the next two weeks, USC and Texas are on a path to meet for what could be one of the most hyped and, more impor­tantly, one of the most evenly matched college football games ever. 
Just imagine the possibilities. USC, currently on a 28 game win­ning streak, versus a Texas team that has won its 10 games this year by an average of 35 points. Matt Leinert, Reggie Bush, Lend ale White, Dwayne Jarrett and Steve Smith trying to outscore Jamaal Charles, Billy Pittman, Limas Sweed and Vince Young. The scoreboard operator will be in for a very busy night. 
Don't get me wrong. I'm just as much against the BCS as all of you barring those few people that actu­ally support this system. If it were up to me, we would be looking for­ward to an eight-team playoff (which Notre Dame would be includ­ed in). 
As a college football fan, though, all I really ask for is that the best two teams be matched up at the end of the season. This year, I couldn't ask for anything better, outside, of course, of an Irish appearance in the National Championship game. Seeing as how that won't happen this year, strong emphasis on this year, I'm already counting down the days until Jan. 4 when I can plop down on my couch and watch what I expect to be the best national cham­pionship game of the past decade. Strangely enough, we have the BCS to thank for it. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garboga@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In the Nov. 15 edition of the Observer, Newsweek journalist Melinda Henneberger's name was mis­spelled throughout rhe story. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: DOES DISCIPLINARY ENFORCEMENT DIFFER IN MALE AND FEMALE DORMS? 







Daniel Rosas  Jason Dodge  Kelly Poupore  Ryan Mingo  Tony McConnell  
freshman Alumni  sophomore Alumni  freshman Cavanaugh  sophomore Dillon  senior off-campus  
"No way! Alumni never has any parties.,,  "Yes, otherwise women couldn ,t go crazy in Alumni.,,  "Of course! I go toAlumni to ,,party.  "Alumni gets away with everything. Do they count as a girts dorm or a guy,s dorm?,  "Yes, RA,s in Zahm never enforced rules. ,,  


State officials ordered a probe into the behavior of Devendra Kumar Panda, an inspector general in the Uttar Pradesh state police, which could cost him his job, officials said Tuesday. 
Panda, 57, who believes himself to be the reincar­nation of a lady consort of the Hindu amorous god Krishna, claims he is merely exercising his free­dom of religion. But his wife, who is suing him, says he is no woman at heart -just a womanizer. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Woman plans to marry man who shot her 
SAN BERNARDINO, Calif. -A woman said she still plans to marry the man who shot her in the groin and then held her hostage in his family's garage for six days. 
Tina Marie Stebbins revealed her intentions in a letter released Monday as her boyfriend, Christian Leroy Lindblad, was sentenced to 20 years in prison for shooting her in June 2002. 
"I love Christian today as deeply as I loved him before this awful thing happened to us," Stebbins wrote in a victim impact statement. "We are soul mates." 

She added: "I want to tell you all that I have for­given Christian. And I pray that Christian has forgiven me for failing him when he needed me most." 
Cop may lose job for dressing as a woman 
LUCKNOW, India -You can't call this top cop a plainclothes policeman ­not after he appeared on television in a canary-yel­low dress, sporting dark red lipstick, matching nail polish and a nose ring. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
1.1.1 :::1: 
~ 
1.1.1 
3: 
..... 
< 
(,) 





0 

..... HIGH 42 30 HIGH 40 
LOW 34 22 LOW 27 
HIGH LOW 
33 22 
HIGH LOW 
IN BRIEF 
The Armed Services Blood Drive will be held from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. today at the Pasquerilla Center. All blood eollected will go to support military blood centers worldwide. 
0. Carter Snead, associate professor of law in the Notre Dame Law School, will bn giving a lecture on "Speaking Truthfully About Stem Cell Research and Human Cloning" at 4 p.m. today in McKenna Hall auditorium. 
Jaleei White, a.k.a Steve Urkei, will be speaking about life and experience in show business tonight at 7:30p.m. in DeBartolo 101. 
Susan Peters, Vice President of General Electric, will speak on the roles of women in corporate America at 7 p.m. Thursday in The Little Theater in Moreau HaJl. 
Graham Beal, director of The Detroit Institute of Art, will give a lecture on his museum's plans to reinstall its works thematically rather than chronologically at 
7:30 p.m. Thursday in the Annenberg Auditorium. 
Asian Allure, an event cele­brating Asian heritage and cul­ture at Notre Dame, will take place Friday at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy will be signing copies of his new book, "Monk's Notre Dame," Friday from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

SATURDAY SUNDAY 


46 HIGH 32 LOW 

Atlanta 61 I 33 Boston 65 I 47 Chicago 37 I 20 Denver 48 I 34 Houston 62 I 36 Los Angeles 83 I 53 Minneapolis 24 I 11 New York 67 I 44 Philadelphia 70 I 39 Phoenix 80 I 53 Seattle 52 I 41 St. Louis 40 I 19 Tampa 83 I 62 Washington 68 I 39 
.------------------------------­
Wednesday, November 16, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
College's career fair dravvs 45 co111panies 
By MOLLY LAMPING News Writer 
With Thanksgiving quickly approaching, studonL'> are getting nmdy to face tho inovitable "what are you doing with your life?" question from t.hnir parnnts and relatives. For Saint Mary's stu­dnnL'>. tho answer to this question eould bn dL'ieovnrnd tonight at the ShOWCIL'i!l of earners. 
Held from 3-6 p.m. in the Heignbeaux Lounge of I.e Mans I tall, morn than 45 companies and organizations will be represented at tho Showe&'>ll. 
That is 15 mom than were at l<L'>t Ymtr's fair. 
"In putting this event together, we prornotnd tho quality of the Saint Mary's students," said Jell' HoberL'>, thn Dirnctor of tl1n Center fiJr Carner Opportunities, as a rea­son li>r thn iJJ(~fn<L'>P in organiza­tions present. 
This stratogy snomed to work, as nnarly 50 porcent of thtl groups rnprnsnntnd tonight are nnw to the Saint Mary's community. 
Tho Showcasn of Careers is rnortl than a job fitir; it is a chance fi>r studnnl'i of all agns to search fi>r intnrnships, summtw jobs and full-tirnn mnploymnnt. In addition to 1~ompanins seeking new mnploynes, graduatn schools, busi­nnss schools, Notrn Dame Law School and voluntenr organiza­tions, such as Toach filf America, will also be prnsont. at thn ShowelL'ill. 
"Our goal is to give students loads on intnrnships and to help them transition to live after Saint Mary's," HoberL'> said. "About 20 diflcrnnt organizations are looking fi>r interns, but the bulk of thL'i Lo; full-time work." 
While them will be a multitude of companies who are sending representatives to man the various tables and talk to Saint Mary's women about the various opportu­nities they present, not all of the organizations represented are going to be available in person. 
"Some corporations can't be here," said Roberts, "But student'> can drop on· their resumes [to the Center fi.>r Career Opportunities]." 
When it comes to speaking with tho people who will be present, intorvinw etiquette is very impor­tant. The dress code of tim evening is business casual for those who just want to stop by and browse the selection of opportunities. Jlowevnr, for students with morn serious ambitions, Roberts recom­mends wearing business attire. 
While the Showcase is targeted toward studonts at Saint Mary's, studnnts from Notre Dame and Jloly Cross are more than wel­come to attnnd the event <L'> well. 
''I'd love to sen IL'> many studenL<> a'> I can," said Hoberl'i. "If the stu­dents that show up are nngaged and talk to people, it might open up. thir!gs they never thought of be lorn. 
Contact Molly Lamping at nilampiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Candlelit vigil held for Pakistan 
By MARY CONROY News Writer 
Despite the rain and cold weather, a crowd of 22 gath­ered at the Fieldhouse Mall Tuesday night a candlelit vigil to raise awareness of the Oct. 8 earthquake in Pakistan. 
Sarah Shafiq, a Notre Dame graduate student, and a member of the Muslim Student Association and the Pakistan Student Association, began by reading a story that recalled that tragic disaster. Shafiq reminded the crowd of that the damage is not over yet. 
"More people will die with the aftermath than the earth­quake itself. [But] we have the power to help. The idea of this event is to raise aware­ness and collect funds because there is an extreme shortage of funds. Every bit helps," she said. 
Shafiq said it is important to know that $10 can buy food for two weeks in Pakistan. 
"We shouldn't forget about it Ithe earthquake I because the media is not giving it enough attention. It is easy to forget because we are so far away. But it is part of our humanity; we need to make an effort to the global socie­ty," she said. 
Dr. Ahmed, a leader of the event, shared many statistics of Pakistan, its people and the damaged eaused by tho earth­quake. He stressed the impor­tance of taking action quickly. 
"There are many statistics for this earthquake. More than 3 million people are dis­placed, and more than one million of these people aro still homeless," he said. "Fifteen thousand villages devastated, 75,000 people killed, 10,000 hospitals destroyed, and 7,000 schools damaged, 274 of which were completely wiped out." 
Priscilla Wong, assistant director of campus ministry, said that four million people have been affected by the earthquake -half of which are children. 
"Less than 30 percent of needed funds have been raised so far, and 20,000 chil­dren are physically impaired," she said. 
Ahsam Kareem, another leader of the event, then shared the scientific explana­tion of the earthquake, stress­ing the severity of the darn­age. 
"Some events happen quick­ly. Somn events have warn­ings," he said. "Why does this happen?" 
Pakistan is one of the hottest areas for an earth­quake activity, Karnem said. The plates under Pakistan move about one to one-and-a­half inches per year and, since this collision of plates was so close to the surface, it caused a "tsunami like" wave of instant disaster for Pakistan. 
Jle than compared how the damage would affnct the Notre Dame area. 

".Just image in a fnw see­onds all of South Bend gone, and all of Mishawaka injured, and many surrounding areas also aiToeted," he said. "My feeling is unfortunately for those peoplo in Pakistan, !the areal isn't like where the tsunami occurred, an arna with a lot of tourism, and an area that received a lot of media. Pakistan is lal remote area, and the earthquake was not eaught on f'ilm, likn the tsunami, and you don't see the misery of the people." 
The ceremony ended with a prayer led by Shariq. Attendees then proceeded on a candlelit walk around cam­pus to raise more awareness. 
"We have these events because Notre Dame Pakistani students took initia­tive to help those suffering from the earthquake," Wong said. "All the money received for rolinf donations will bo given to tho Catholic Helnase Services. This servicn in Pakistan is unique bncausn lit's] IJO percent Muslim. lit's] really great to have this col­laboration of worknrs." 
In mlclition to tlw candlelit vigil, another event is taking place on campus to raiso awarnness and funds for tho Pakistan narthquake. Today, at 6 p.m. there will bo a din­nor in tho La Fortuno Ballroom. It will bo fnaturing Indian food. A $7 donation is suggostod. 
Contact Mary Conroy at mconroOI @saintmarys.edu 
IVlTERVlATIOVlAL EDtACATIOI/1 WEEK 
SI'ON.SOPEt> 8-Y ­t:~> IS.SA: ··· Offie:e of In1""orno1'1onol .S'f'Udi«# ..,. ln#-tU·u'fllR' for L::t'tino S'f'Udios • Kellogg In:s;·h'fU't'# ~ J···!C,'U:ltV~.c: ln'$"ti:'tu'tct ~·. Ft.s.(:'h.-r Groduo1'~~~~t Jhl!'sidan-c:::as lnft!M'lot4onct MS.A:s * :Indfan SNd.ont· As:s:oci:.Q·ti~n « P..,...s•donf>'ll Of·t•e« » 
Ooon''S Of·tu:.:e. CoHogcc of Art"$ ond Lwtt'ov.~ ·· tr"():grom in G-ond..-,... .$··h.1dio1: u Th• Cor-a•r C...n'ter ~) Eo-s:-t A:uon Longoog•s .& lif'O't-'"'O'tUt"'4"S · l>«portment-o'f 8-tology b•poMnutn't' of Am.cu...i.eon .S.t-udi4t$ 41-.AAA ,. Ot...A A.tumn• ,A:sso.e•o'tton 
For a calendar of events go to: www.ltd.edu/-lssa/IEW 
WEDNESDAY,NOVEMBER16 

NANOVIC INSTITUTE PRESENTS AN INTERNATIONAL LECTURE 
"Poland Today," Visiting fellow, Aneta Gawkowska, Assistant Professor of Sociology in the Institute of Applied Social Sciences at Warsaw University 4pm, Nanovic Institute , 211 Brownson 
INDIAN STUDENT ASSOCIATION AND PAKISTAN STUDENT ASSOCIATION BENEFIT DINNER FOR EARTHQUAKE RELIEF 
6pm, LaFortune Ballroom, Indian Food: $7 at the door 
EYES ON THE WORLD: STORIES BEHIND THE PICTURES 

People who served or studied abroad will bring in photos they took and share the stories behind the pictures. It will be a casual and informal presentation by ISSLP and Kellogg Institute Internships participants of their service projects abroad. 7pm, Coleman-Morse Lounge 
KELLOGG INSTITUTE'S FILM SERIES "WOMEN MAKE MOVIES: A LATIN AMERICAN EXPERIENCE" Los Rubios 
8pm, Hesburgh International Center Auditorium 

Full Week Calendar of Events at: www.nd.edu/-issa/IEW.htm 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 16, 2005 
Native A111erican gives lecture 
By L-IZ HARTER 
News Writer 
Suzan Shown Harjo, a columnist for Indian Country Today and President and CEO of The Morning Star Institute, spoke to a crowd of 35 at Saint Mary's Tuesday about the removal of Native American culture and language from the modern United States. 
The fourth lecture in the first-year series themed "Who Counts in the United States?," Harjo's talk, entitled "Diversifying Diversity: Beyond One of These, One of Those ... ," focused on her own experi­ences of combating the loss of culture. She drew on her extensive work as a prominent Native American poet, author, spokesperson, curator and policy advisor. 
The first-year theme, chosen every spring by a group of pro­fessors and the Center for Academic Innovation, is meant to create a sense of intellectual community, especially among first-year students. 
Harjo cited the familiar nursery rhyme of "ten little, nine little, eight little Indians... " and said it proves citizens' understanding of how Native Americans count in the 
U.S. -"backwards." 
The nursery rhyme shows Native Americans have a his­tory of being diminished in the American psyche, of having lands diminished and of being counted out, Harjo said. 
She said the nursery rhyme is taught to small children and "means that something bad is coming, it means that every­thing is disappearing." 
She said children need to be taught "counting up" to show that Native Americans are flourishing. 
Harjo said Native American cultures started to diminish when Europeans began set­tling further west. The whites, she said, considered the ritu­als and religions of the Native Americans to be the ·hellish work of the devil. They there­fore renamed conquered sacred locations of the Native Americans, calling the places names like Hell's Canyon and Devil's Tower, Harjo said. 
The Europeans imposed laws upon the Native Americans such as outlawing traditional religions and roam­ing off the reservations they had been forced onto without a purpose, she said. 
Harjo cited the recent debates over NCAA Universities having to change Native American-themed mas­cots as one of the ways that white people dominated, colo­nized and dehumanized Native Americans. 
But Harjo said not all laws regarding Native Americans are oppressive. The Federal Indian Boarding Schools allowed Native Americans to meet with teenagers from other tribes. Harjo's own par­ents were members of differ­ent tribes -her father is Muskogee and her mother is Cheyenne. 

The American Indian Boarding Schools were intend­ed to teach people to be open and accepting of other cul­tures. 
The boarding schools were a failed attempt by the federal government to breed out the Native Americans in three generations, Harjo said. The schools tried to introduce Native Americans into the white culture so they would marry white people, but instead they married each other, she said. At these schools, Native Americans often banded together after being beaten for speaking in their native languages, bring­ing them closer together. 
Harjo has worked with the federal government in proac­tive Native American efforts. She has recovered more than one million acres of sacred land for different tribes and was instrumental in protecting Native American culture and arts by working closely with the Smithsonian to open the 
National  Museum  of  the  
American  Indian  in  
Washington, D.C.  

She said the museum focus­es on the religious aspects of different tribes and that visi­tors do not need to know everything about Native Americans to enjoy the exhibits. 
Counting, Harjo said, "begins with respect and with a cele­bration of our differences." 
Contact Liz Harter at eharteOl @saintmarys.edu 
he just didn't know if he wanted to do something both
Kernan 

semesters or one, or how it continued from page 1 was going to be structured," 
Roos said. "We talked togeth­state and local budgets, wel­er [about the position]. We've fare, economic development, known each other for a long 
health care, capital punish­time." ment, urban development Kernan and crime. He will give peri­of Notre odic lectures throughout the year on politics 
"He has a wide 
and public serv­

range ofpolitical
ice and be avail­able for individ­experience he can 
ual meetings share with his 
with students 

students. He's a
seeking career 

advice. real leader. " "This is some­body that's 
John Roos
always been 

acting chair
devoted to public 

political science
service," Roos said. "He's a really, really 


is a 1968 graduate Dame and former mayor of South Bend -a posi­tion he held for nine years. He was South Bend's longest­serving mayor when he resigned to bec'ome lieu­tenant governor under Frank 0' Bannon in 1996. When O'Bannon suf­fered a massive stroke in 2003, 

good guy." Kernan assumed command 
Roos said Kernan's hiring as Indiana's 48th governor. was pursued by both the University and Kernan. Contact Mary Kate Malone at 
"Joe was always interested, mmalone3@nd.edu 

r---­
Wednesday, November 16,2005 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVJCES page 5 
~================================================================= 


ORLD & NATION 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. forces discover tortured Iraqis 
BA<;III>AI>. Iraq -Iraqi and U.S. ollicials disdosml Tuesday that more than 170 mal­nourislwd Iraqi ddainnns had been fi1uml in a wooknnd raid at an lntnrior Ministry dntnntion cnntnr and that some appnarod to havo bonn l.orl.urml. 
U.S. and Iraqi fim~ns discovered the inmatos wlwn thny wont into tho facility suspocting that individuals llwrn may havn been mistrnat­nd. tho Pentagon said. 
A Sunni politieian said the prisoners were Sunni Arabs and accused the Shiite-led gov­nrnnwnt of long ignoring tho abuse. 
Coalition f'orcns "found things that eon­corned them," Pentagon spokesman Bryan Whitman said. lin did not say when the inmates were found, but U.S. troops took con­trol of tho Interior Ministry building on Sunday. 
Prinw Minister Ibrahim al-Jaafari said Iraqi authoritios worn invnstigating what happened and that tho dotainnes had been moved to a lwttnr location and given medical care. 
Police arrest former Chad dictator 
AKAH, Snnngal -Police on Tuesday arn~stod I lissono I labro, the former dictator of Chad who was wantod on an international war crimns warrant 15 years after his fall from powor in the dostituto central Afriean country. 
I I aim~. who is accused of murder, torture and a host of otlwr crimes during his eight-year roign, ww; arrested at his home in Snnegal's sea­sidn capital, whore he had livnd in nxile with his family sincn his oustnr in 1990. 
Wearing whito robns and cap, the 63-yoar old llabro wavnd to reportnrs outside eourt after his arrest. lie made no remarks before being taken to jail and his lawyer could not bn immediately rnachnd for comnwnt. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Rumsfeld defends U.S. war in Iraq 
WASIIINGI'ON -Dnl'onse Secretary Donald 
II. Hurnsfi~ld on Tuesday joined the Bush admin­istration's attack on Iraq war critics, quoting <:linton administration oflidals who contended in the late 1<J<JOs that former Iraqi leader Saddarn llussnin was a security thrnat to tho United Statns and iL'> allies. 
At a Pentagon nnws conferenCt\ Humsfold nott~d that thn Iraq Libnration Act, passnd by ConJ.,rrnss in 1<J<JS, said it should be U.S. govnrn­mnnt poliey to support efl'orts to remove tho Saddam rt~ginw from power. lin noted that Prt~sident Bill Clinton signed the ad and ordered l(mr days of bombing in December 199S. 
With DnnHHTaL'> aceusing President Bush of having mislnd the American public about the urgenry of tlw Iraqi threat prior to his order to invade in March 20m. Bush on Monday threw ba('k at I>nrnocratk rritics the worries they once nxpn~ssnd about Saddam. 
Alito downplays abortion comments 
WASIIIN(;')'()N -The Samuel Alito who argued against abortion righL'> in 19R5 was "an advo('.atn sneking a job" with the conservative Hnagan administration, the Alito who is now a Supreme Court nominee told Democrats 
Tw~sday. 
Tlw eurnmt Vt1rsion "thinks he's a wiser per­son" with "a better grasp and understanding about constitutional righl'> and liberties," sena­tors said IL'> Alito tried to play down a 20-year-old document in whkh he usserted "the Constitution does not protect a right to an abortion." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana counties debate time zones 
LOCANSPOHT. Ind. -Some 70 people from I I counties attended tho first of four public hearings by the U.S. Dt!partnwnt of Transportation on Sunday to discuss Indiana counties' requests to switch from Eastern time to Central time. 
Those who teslil'ind favored a switch to the Central Time Zone 3-1, and many nxpresstHI concern over confusion that could rnsult from having different coun­ties in different time zones. 
Republicans reject timetable 
GOP proposal asks Bush for explanation ofIraq policy, does not force withdrawal 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -The He pub I i can -con t ro lind Senate on Tuesday easily defeated a Democratic effort to pressure President Bush to outline a timetable for a phased withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq. It then overwhelmingly endorsed a weaker statement calling on the administration to explain its Iraq policy. 
Senators also overwhelm­ingly voted to endorse the Bush administration's mili­tary tribunals for prosecut­ing suspected foreign terror­ists held at the U.S. naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, but to allow detainees to appeal their status and punishments to a federal court. 
On the question of a timetable for troop with­drawal, senators rejected the Democrats' measure by 58-40. Democratic leaders had advanced the timetable measure in the wake of declining public support for a conf1ict that has claimed more than 2,000 U.S. lives and cost more than $200 billion. 
Hepublicans countered with their own non-binding altHrnative. It urged that 2006 "should be a period of significant transition to full Iraqi sovereignty," with Iraqi forces taking the lead in providing security to create the conditions for the phased redeployment of United States forces. 
On a 79-19 vote, the Senate approved that GOP­sponsored proposal, which did not call for the president to put forth a withdrawal timetable unlike the Democratic proposal. 
"They want an exit strate­gy, a cut-and-run exit strate­gy. What we are for is a suc­cessful strategy," said Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist, R-Tenn. 
Senate Democratic leader Harry Heid, D-Nnv., said: "We want to change the course. We can't stay the course." 
Tuesday's fast-paced 


developments underscored tho political significance of the war as the U.S. death toll climbs, public support plummets, the insurgency continues and the price tag soars with no end in sight. 
The Senate added the GOP Iraq policy to a defense bill the Senate was completing work on Tuesday. 
Overall, the bill includes provisions that, taken together, mark an effort by the Senate to rein in some of the wide authority lawmak­ers gave the president fol­lowing the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. 
The measure includes White House-opposed lan­guage that would prohibit the cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment of detainees and standardize interrogation procedures used by U.S. troops. The Bush administration has threatened to veto any bill that includes language about the treatment of detainees, arguing it would limit the president's ability to prevont terrorist attacks. 
Senators also added lan­guage Tuesday that would allow Guantanamo detainees to appeal their status as "enemy combat­ants" and the rulings of U.S. military tribunals to a fi1dor­al appeals court in Washington, D.C. That avenue would take the place of the one tool the Supreme Court gave detainees in 2004 to fight the legality of their dntontions -the right to file habeas eorpus peti­tions in any fi)deral court. 
Senators approved the measure on tribunals by an 84-14 vote. 
Senators dnl'eatnd a Democratic proposal that would have reinstated tho right to lile habeas eorpus lawsuits, but limited tho challenges to one court. 
Hefleding senators' angnr over recnnt leaks of dassi­lied infimnation to thn pub­lic, the bill also indudns pro­visions requiring tho Bush administration to providn Congress with details on purportedly sncrnt CIA pris­ons ovnrsoas and stripping of security dearanens of any federal govnmrnnnt oflieial who knowingly diselosns national security socrets. 
JAPAN 

Bush supports a democratic China 
Associated Press 
KYOTO, Japan -President Bush prodded China on Wednesday to grant more political freedom to its 
1.3 billion people and hold up archrival Taiwan as a society that successfully moved from repression to democracy as it opened its econo­my. 
In remarks sure to rile Beijing, Bush suggested China should follow Taiwan's path. 
"Modern Taiwan is free and demo­cratic and prosperous. By embracing freedom at all levels, Taiwan has delivered prosperity to its people and created a free and democratic Chinese society," the president said. 

Bush made his remarks in the advance· text of a speech that was to be the cornerstone address of his Asian trip. From Japan, he will con­tinue to South Korea, China and Mongolia. 
Seeking to solidify America's influ­ence in Asia in the face of China's rising economy and military might, Bush said Beijing's economic growth must be accompanied by more free­doms for its people 
"As China reforms its economy," the president said, "its leaders are 11nding that once the door to frnn­dom is opened evnn a craek, it can­not be dosed. As the pnoplo of China grow in prosperity, their demands for political freedom will grow as well." 
Bush also lectured China about opening its economy to foreign cOin­petition to narrow the nxpnetod $200 billion trade surplus with tho United States. "China noeds to pro­vide a level playing field for American businesses seeking aeeess to China's market," Bush said. Further, he said China must fulfill its promise to move toward a more market-based currency. 


-----------, 
page 6 Wednesday, November 16, 2005 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
what conservative. seeing yourself as an empowered to be some limitation or miscon­Students like Mitros are more "I would consider my views not woman and advocate for change ception about what feminism is to than ready to see an improvement
FeiDinisiD 
continued from page 1 
While she may have been the only woman in class to defend feminism, Mitros is not alone with­in the Saint Mary's community in identifying herself as feminist. Many students share the idea that feminism allows women to push for social and domestic equality. 
Like Mitros, junior Kirsten Kensinger is a self-described femi­nist who believes in supporting women's equality. She does, qow­ever, notice the negative connota­tions about feminism at Saint Mary's. 
"Some people think that if you are a feminist then you are a man hater. I think a lot of people are afraid of feminists," Kensinger said. "But again, I think feminism in its most basic nature means equality, so I don't see why you wouldn't want to believe in that." 
Kensinger said her ideas about feminism did not influence her choice to attend Saint Mary's, but she finds the atmosphere at the College does foster such ideas. 
"I have really come to appreci­ate the fact that Saint Mary's pro­motes higher education for women and has had a great histo­ry of doing so when no one else in the country was," Kensinger said. 
Senior Meghan Daley. who con­siders herself a feminist but does not embrace many of the ideals of 'radical' feminism, shares Kensinger's attitude. · 
"I believe that feminism is often misunderstood, especially by social and political conservatives, who frequently assume that the feminist movement has been irre­versibly tainted by the sexual rev­olution," Daley said. "On the con­trary, authentic feminism will always have as its goal the ulti­mate well-being and dignity of women." 
In addition to proclaiming them­selves members of the feminist movement, both Kensinger and Daley said they think Saint Mary's does a sufficient job of promoting feminism. Kensinger said many events on campus such as guest speakers and forums sponsored by Feminists United -a feminist club on campus-have raised her awareness. 
Kensinger said she has also experienced feminism inside the classroom. 
"I have had several professors who have been amazing with it, especially in my Humanistic Studies major," Kensinger said. "We look at the evolution of women's status in society. I think it gives me a better perspective of how far we've come but at the same time, how much more improvement we need." 
Like Kensinger, Daley has also encountered feminism at Saint Mary's. 
"I would consider Saint Mary's a feminist school because it seeks to provide an environment conducive to the intellectual and spiritual growth of women," she said. 
Not exclusively feminist 
Other Saint Mary's students, however, are more reluctant to use the word 'feminist' to describe themselves or the College. 
.Junior Erin Kotelnieki is one Saint Mary's woman who refuses to identify herself as a feminist. For Kotelnicki, 'feminist' is syn­onymous with extremist. 
"I feel that feminism is a very extmme term," Kotnlnicki said. "It is one thing to be a very powerful woman but being a feminist is a totally different thing. A feminist is almost an extremist in women's rights." . 
While she largely generally sup­ports women's rights, Kotelnicki said she cannot classify herself as a feminist because her views about women's rights are some-to be submissive but instead more traditional," Kotelnicki said. "I believe that women should have just as many rights as men but I am more traditional in the way that I believe a man should take care of his wife and his children. I feel that this idea clashes with feminism." 
Kotelnicki does not see Saint Mary's as an institution that encourages or promotes femi­nism. 
"I would say absolutely not," Kotelinicki said. "Saint Mary's is not a feminist school. I don't think that the college pushes us in either direction. I think that because the majority of the people here are conservative there is naturally going to be less of a drive towards promoting feminism. I just feel like it's really not that big of an issue." 
Freshman Andrea Beres is also reluctant to call herself a feminist. Beres said her image of a feminist is an extremist -someone who does not shave or believe in the institution of marriage. While an advocate for women's rights, she does not want to be associated with extremism. 
"I cringe when I think about calling myself a feminist," she said. "I think it is very hard to come up with a general definition of feminism that pleases both extremisl<;. So I do have reserved thoughts and I don't think I could ever defme myself as a feminist." 
"Different kinds of feminism" 
Some members of the Saint Mary's community said they believe the differing views on the issue are rooted in the connotation of the word, not the movement itself. 
Elaine Meyer-Lee, Director of the Center for Women's InterCulturaJ Leadership, said the concept of feminism is largely mis­interpreted. 
"I think that there are a lot of different kinds of feminisms, not just one perspective," Meyer-Lee said. "Just like there are lots of women, there are lots of views about what it means for a woman to matter and to be fully human. Its like any word, it can take on negative associations . . . and you can choose to dump the word and pick a new one or you can reclaim it." 
Katie Kelly, the student director of the Saint Mary's College Women's Resource Center, believes the confusion lies in the understanding of the word. 
"Feminism is a way of being in the world," Kelly said. "It's about 

National Security Education Program David L. Boren Undergraduate Scholarships 
SCHOLARSHIPS FOR STUDY ABROAD NSEP provides opportunities for .U.S. citizens to study in Asia, Africa, Central and Eastern Europe, Eurasia, Latin America and the Caribbean, and the Middle East. Award amounts are up to $10,000 per semester or $20,000 per academic year. In return, scholarship recipients agree to seek employment with the federal government. · You must be a U.S. citizen and enrolled as an undergraduate at a U.S. university, college or community coJiege in order to apply. Scholarships are for summer, semester and academic year study abroad programs. For more information, contact your NSEP campus representative or the Institute of International Education. ·  
INFORMATIONAL MEETING THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 17 5:00PM DEBARTOLO HALL, ROOM 118  
Campus Deadline: January 23, 2006 For more information, email plongenb@nd.edu or stop by the NO Fellowships Office, I05 O'Shaughnessy Hall Apply Online: www.iie.org/nsep  

in gender inequality concerning social, political and economic issues. Too often in our world, feminism is that dirty 'F' word connoting man-hating femi-nazis and bra-burning wenches." 
Vmcent Berdeyes, a professor in the department of communication and performance studies, said it is impossible to attend Saint Mary's and not be a feminist. 
"I think the thing about a women's college is that those val­ues of feminism are woven into the institution, just educating women is a primary value," Berdeyes said. "To me it would seem an inherent contradiction between being a woman in college and being anti-feminist. There has 
~uJ for a stylish afternoon. 
Preview the latest in hridalwear. Enjoy 
hors d'oeuvres and·cocktails. Hire your 
musician and florist. Orjust gather ideas. 
Everything you ne~d for your big day. 
November 20, 2005 12 p.m. -5p.m. Palais Royale Ballroom 105 W. Colfax, South Bend 
~~BB.Iillla:R~tillal~~~~~~.uom 
,::;:t-~(.0 ..\ 
be able to hold that position." 

Molly McGuire, a junior women's studies minor, said as a women's institution Saint Mary's embodies "fundamental compo­nents of feminism." 
"By attending an all women's college, students are obviously for the academic advancement of women and feel comfortable in a community that isn't run by men," McGuire said. 
Feminism supporters at Saint Mary's have, in recent years, attempted to reclaim feminism as a positive movement despite resistance. Several clubs and organizations have been set in place to foster a better under­standing. 
,An Excefinonal f:vtnt f: 
re,w~ 

Tickets: $5 in advance $10 at the door To order call: 
574-235-9190 
c 
in students' attitude toward femi­nism. 
"When you are at an all­women's college and you have a class of 15 women who say that none of them would consider themselves feminists, you think 'Wow, this really needs to be a greater focus,' " Mitros said. "We have so many resources on cam­pus that we are not using to the full potential. We have amazing opportunities to really expand people's horizons that need to be tapped." 
Contact Emily La Velie and Lauren LaVelie at elavelO 1 @saintmarys.edu and llavelO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Presented by 
lm!Jges 
Brit!(, 

Wednesday, November 16, 2005 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
10,686.44 -I 0.73 

}ones 
4 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume 1,061 160 1,12 2,362,026,260 

AMEX 1.693.22 --6.51 
NASDAQ 2,1 X6.74 -14.21 
NYSE 7,509.38 -39.79 S&PSOO 1,229.01 -4.70 NIKKE.I(Tokyo) 14,060.46 -31.31 FTSE IOO(London) 5.439.60 -30.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) -0.48 -0.19 40.52 CAPSTONETURBINE (CPST) +35.76 + 1.13 4.29 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.84 +0.23 27.50 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -0.46 -0.08 17.27 SIRIUS SATELLITE R(SIRI) +2.72 +0.19 7.17 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -1.15 -0.55 47.41 I0-YEAR NOTE -1.02 -0.47 45.57 5-YEARNOTE -0.86 -0.39 45.02 3-MONTH BILL +0.85 +0.33 39.15 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.71 56.98 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.10 469.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.50 88.75 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
118.9100 EURO 
0.8533 POUND 
0.5762 CANADIAN$ 
1.1928 

IN BRIEF 
Congress takes back 9/11 funding 
WASHINGTON -Congressional budget negotiators have decided to take back $125 million in Sept. II aid from New York, which had fought to keep the money to treat sick and injun~d ground zero workers, lawmak1~rs said Ttwsday. 
NPw York ol'lirials had sought for months to hold onto tlw funding, originally rnoant to rover inrreasml worker compensation costs stemming f'rom tlw 200 I tlwror attacks. 
But a massiv«~ labor and lwalth sp«~JHiing hill moving fitfully through llouse-Sonato IJPgotiations would take back that funding, lawmakers said. 
"It se1Hns that despite our efforts tho resdssion will stand. v«~ry sadly, and that is sonwthing of' a promise broken," said Hop. Vito Foss«~lla, H-N.Y. "We will try hard in the coming wonks, but ultimately Congross will have sonwthing of' a black nyn over this." 
A spokeswonHlll ror Hep. John Sweeney, H­N.Y., said the congressman also had been told Nnw York would lose the funding in whatever compromise version or the spend­ing bill finally rnaches tho floor. 
Thn tug-or-war ovnr the $125 million began earlier this ynar wlwn the Whitn House pro­poSIHI taking tho money back bncausn tho statll had not yet spent it. 
Federal insurer PBGC losing assets 
WASIIIN{;TON-The federal agency that insures the private pensions of' 44 million workers is having big problnms of its own, hitting a deficit of $22.H billion as big air­lines in bankruptcy dump liabilities. 
With billions flying out tlw door of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., concern has been mounting over its financial footing. Tho agency disclosed Tuesday in an annual report that as of' Snpt. 30 it had $56.5 bil­lion in assets to cover $79.2 billion in pen­sion liabilities. 
Without a logislative overhaul of the pri­vate pension system, the PBGC eventually will run out of monny to pay the pension c:laims or the rntireos of companies whose plans it has assumed, tho hnad of the agnncy warned. That would raise tho possi­bility of a taxpayor bailout. 


THE OnsERVER 
USINESS 
page 7 

Investors fear GM bankruptcy 
Despite large debt, General Motors denies plans to seek bankruptcy protection 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK An increasing numbnr of investors arn betting that Gnnnral Motors Corp. may bn f'orcod to seek bankrupt­cy protnction within thn next 12 months as it strug­glns with slumping sales and high health earn costs for workers and retiroos. 
Concerns about tho future of the world's largest automaker aro showing up in the credit default swaps market, whero investors nfTectivnly buy insurance protection against defaults. Holders of GM debt who want to arrange a hedge against the risk that they won't be repaid arn finding that the cost or buying tho protection has risen dra­matically in rncnnt days. 
"Thn markets are telling you that more traders are starting to see a greater risk that a default scenario could happen sooner in time than later." said John Tinrney, a credit strategist at Deutsche Bank Securities in Now York. "You cannot deny there is a pattmn here." 

GM spokesman Jerry Dubrowski responded by saying the automaker has "no plans to declare bank­ruptcy," and he noted that GM has about $19 billion in cash on hand. Beyond that, he deelined to discuss bondholder seeking protec­October, and Delta, the default swaps traders now recent pricing trends for tion against a default has nation's third largest carri­view GM as a company so crndit default swaps. to pay more money up er, went bankrupt in risky that a holder now "Typically we don't com­front because the Wall September. must pay as much as $12 ment on stock prices or Street firms arranging the GM lost nearly $4 billion per year ror every $1 ()() or bond pricns," he said. "We hedges have to pay more to in thn first nine months of' the automaker's five-year don't think it is appropriate protnct themselves. this year. The Detroit­eorporate debt if tlwy want to do that." Michiko Whetten, a based company has been to hnrlge against a default, 
At issue is the nnarly $31 quantitative credit analyst hammered by high labor up from $H to $9 just sev­billion in debt related to at Nomura Securities costs and rising priees for eral weeks ago. In addition, {;M automaking operations International Inc., said GM raw .materials like steel. credit ddault swaps that ratings agencies debt had previously never And whiln it recently traders are now dnmand­alrnady have downgraded traded on an upfront basis. reached agreement with ing morn of' that money up to junk status, or below But now that it is, it puts tho United Auto Workers front. from investors look­invostment grade. GM in an unenviable cate­union to temper the rise in ing to proteet their GM l>ubrowski said GM's total gory with Dnlphi Corp. and health eosts, GM still has holdings. debt, induding dnbt sold by Delta Air Lines lne. -been losing U.S. market Thes«~ losses may not its General Motors other companies whose share due to com petition actually oeeur, but the pric­Acceptance Corp. unit, now debt tradnd on an upfront from healthier foreign ing moves 'in tho swaps stands at $276 billion. basis ahead of their peti­rivals and weakened market are a good indica­
Credit default swaps for tioning for bankruptcy. demand for sport utility tion of how Wall Street GM are now trading at Auto parts maker Delphi, vehides, its longtime cash traders and investors are what is known as an once owned by GM cows. judging the risk of a GM "upfront" basis, meaning a declared bankruptcy in Wall Street's credit default. 

Bemanke to uphold current policies 
.. 

Bernanke said. worries about whether the high-flying 
"I intend to be flexible and to learn housing marknt will crash. There also 
WASHINGTON -Ben Bernanke, from experience," he said. "But I are concerns about high energy the president's chief economist, told believe the right starting point is the prices and tho lackluster jobs market. senators Tuesday he'll continue the point where we currently are, that "All of your intellectual horsepower policies of Alan Greenspan if con­Chairman Greenspan has demon­is going to bn needed," said Sen. tirmed as Federal Reserve chairman strated in his policymaking." Debbie Stabenow, D-Mich. and will make sure the central bank Bernanke also sought to assure Bernanke, 51, is a former Princeton remains free of political influence. lawmakers, investors and the public professor and Fed governor who now 
Senate Banking Committee mem­that he would make decisions on serves as chairman of the White bers, at a three-hour hearing on interest rates and other matters House Council of Economic Advisers. President Bush's choice to head the based on economic considerations, Lawmakers and the administration Fed after Greenspan retires, largely not political ones. "I will be strictly want him ready to take over when expressed confidence in the man who indep~nden~ of all political influ­Greenspan retires Jan. 31, af'tnr 1H­would take over a position seen by ences, he smd. plus years at the helm. many as the second-most-influential If eonlirmed as nxpeeted, Bernanke Senators intend to aet on job in America. will lead the Fed at a time when tho Bernanke's nomination "as soon as 
Maintaining continuity with economy faces challenges, including possible," said committee ehairman Greenspan's policies is a top priority, bloated budget and trade deficits and Hichard Shelby, H-Aia. 
Associated Press 

Wednesday, November 16, 2005 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
some rectors to tell students ResLife. Fortunately, I was able alcohol. there's a consistency, even if they're facing disciplinary to figure out this kid told on "When I grew up, [the drink­students don't see it," Kirk said. 
Policy 
action from the University, but me. Nobody else got in trouble." ing agel was 18. I liked it when "Because students typically continued from page 1 others don't tell them at all, Brown said the way he was I was 18, but I understand and only know the faets about their 
students said. reported made it impossible to appreciate the reasons and individual case." emphasized over and over Junior Dan Brown was sent to even attempt to defend himself rationale for it being 21 now. So Director of Residence Life Jeff again [in a later conversation the Otlice of Residence Life and at his conference. I think what our regulations do, Shoup said sanctions were by with my rector], we weren't try­Housing last spring after help­"The way ResLife works -they say for example, hard and large uniform across cam­ing to break parietals, we ing to get six kegs into St. there's a presumption of guilt," alcohol is prohibited in a resi­pus. would have tried to sneak him Edward's Hall for a party. Brown said. "They [rector and dence h-all, even if you're 21, "If you have a violation in in or something ... l-Ie wouldn't He was then kicked off earn­ResLife staff] get the heads-up because we've seen that your hall, and you'r,e talking to have just walked in. That's pus with three weeks left in the ahead of time and have pretty regardless of your age, that a friend whose had the same completely stupid." academic year. much already come to the con­abusive drinking takes place violation in another hall, you 
For something she called Brown doesn't deny wrongdo­clusion. There's no transparen­more likely with hard alcohol should be able to have a con­"completely stupid," the junior ing -the party's purpose being cy in it. It's not like you can ask than it does with other kinds of versation if you wanted to and and her boyfriend each got sent "to stick it to the man" -but questions ... there's really no alcohol," Kirk said. say, 'We both got similar sanc­to disciplinary conferences in he felt his disciplinary process fairness at any levels. You can But students say while policy tions,"' Shoup said. "Now there the Office of Residence Life and was riddled with injustices. appeal it, but you don't have is one thing, enforcement is may be some eircumstances Housing and were assigned 20 St. Ed's rector Father Tom access to the same evidence another. that may limit them slightly dif­hours of community service Eckert declined to comment they do. If someone tells on you Sophomore David G.ruener, ferent than the other, but they apiece. The boyfriend was when asked about an incident [you can't do anything]." who vehemently opposes the should be similar, at least." banned from the junior's dorm involving Brown. After being put on discipli­parietals policy, said he felt the But many students said they for the rest of the year and also "As a policy, I don't comment nary probation and forced to University's rules wrongly saw discrepaneies in enforce­given University counseling, she on students' disciplinary pro­move off-campus, Brown said "superceded" government ment, espeeially between men's said. ceedings," Eckert said. he "lived a nomadic life," keep­rules. and women's dorms. 
Then the junior learned this Brown said he had driven ing his belongings at his broth­"It's picking and choosing "The rules are mueh more wouldn't have necessarily hap­right up behind St. Ed's using a er's apartment but sleeping in which Biblical beliefs you strictly enforced in girls' pened in other dorms. security key card he had places like O'Shaughnessy Hall, enforce," sophomore David dorms," said senior Caitlin 
"Since it happened in [my obtained. The kegs were smug­Hesburgh Library and the Hiley Gruener said. "Getting drunk Evans, who lives off-campus. dorm I. we both got sent to gled into the dorm via recycling computer cluster. underage is all right, and "It's a lot healthier in guys' HesLife. [My rector] was dead bins. "Those bastards -they kick breaking the law is OK, but dorms ... The RAs really get to set on sending us both," she "The hall staff all knew about me off with three weeks left to having sex isn't. I struggle with know the students. A lot more said. "My boyfriend's HA had it, except for one RA," Brown go," Brown said. "What a that when you can get suspend­things ean happen out in the talked to him and said if it hap­said. "The rector was gone. bunch of petty s**t. I have the ed for having a girl laying on open land] the HAs still know pened in his dorm, it would What happened was the parties lifetime ban from St. Ed's your couch after hours." what's happening. In girls' have stayed within the dorm, went off without a hitch, we got because they don't want me ... Gruener's argument was dorms, a lot more is happening you would have gotten a fine." the kegs off campus land] the rector shivers every time he based on what Brown described behind girls' doors. There's the 
Even if the parietals-breaking returned." sees me." as the University's "blind fear of getting busted." had occurred in another Eckert, upon hearing "rumors acceptance of people drinking." That statement is supported women's dorm, the RA said the from other rectors" that this "Picking and choosing "You can get s**tfaced, oblit­by a female sophomore who boyfriend only would have party had occurred, then went Biblical beliefs" erated drunk in the dorms and wished to remain anonymous. received a fine, the junior said. into a freshman's room that The University's rules about nobody has a problem with it, "I've broken parietals proba­
"I don't understand why there contained a beer pong table, drinking are outlined in duLac but if you smoke pot ... I mean, bly about six times," she said, was such disparity," she said. Brown said. and are guided by Indiana State out of principle, they feel obli­"in Siegfried, Keenan, Knott." 
Further coloring the incident The table was covered with Law. gated to get you kicked out of She knew the rules and said was the junior•s frustration scribbles and messages, but "Any person under 21 years school," Brown said. she wasn't afraid of being with its timing. Her disciplinary Brown said one in particular of age is underage in the State Brown thought this might be caught. conference wasn't scheduled caught Eckert's eye -"There of Indiana. All students are due to Notre Dame's historically "But it's never been in my until a month after the incident was a keg in here." Brown said expected to comply with Irish culture, where alcohol and dorm," she said. "I feel like it's occurred -a process drawn Eckert then "extrapolated" that Indiana law at all times. tradition go hand in hand, he stricter in girls' dorms. I would out by the rector's failure to call a keg had indeed been present. Students may be subject to dis­said. never break parietals in my the junior to her office for a A freshman "afraid of losing ciplinary action for underage "We don't condone any drink­own dorm." meeting until a week later. his scholarship" told Eckert consumption, possession or ing when they're not 21, but we Evans said it was hard to 
"After the whole process I that Brown had purchased the transportation of alcoholic bev­allow it," said Brown, giving his speeulate as to the eause of the was completely terrified," the keg, Brown said. erages," duLac reads. interpretation of the apparent differences in junior said. ~'The rector, in his SS-like Kirk explained the logic University's guidelines. "What enforcement. 
need for secrecy, doesn't come behind Indiana's drinking age the hell does that mean? "There's a really old attitude "What a bunch of petty s**t" down to talk to me or ask me," -a logic that also applies to Everybody knows you can drink that still kind of runs here ­It may take a long time for Brown said. "He sent me to the University's policy on hard in the dorms. Then you go to 'boys will be boys.' But the 
Wednesday, November 16th 
THEOLOGY ON TAP 
presents 
ttristian Alleg0 ,. 
c, ~
Fr. Charlie Gordon, CSC 


Fiction andY UR Faith 
*Last Theology on Tap this Semester* 
Get tapped in at Legends 
CM 
Doors Open at 9:30pm, Speaker starts -1O:OOpm Free soft-drinks and food, cash bar Campus Ministry 
tailgates and do the same thing and you get sent to ResLife. And you're supposed to be apologetic. Why? B«;lcause I wasn't drinking alone in my dorm room?" 
Not even one semester into their Notre Dame experience, freshmen said they saw con­flicts regarding policy enforce­ment. 
"It's the way they allow some stuff and not others," said freshman Miehael Kaiser, refer­ring to the University's ban on hard alcohol. "Well, you're allowed to have beer, maybe not technically. But the HAs say you can have it in your room." 
It's a different story, Kaiser said, "if you get caught bringing it into the dorm, on campus." 
A male RA who wished to remain anonymous said parties were completely acceptable as long as they stayed under con­trol. 
"For drinking, we make it very clear about the expecta­tions. We encourage social gatherings because they build the eommunity," he said. "We'll help you manage the party. You just need to be responsible, make sure the party doesn't get too [crazy]. When people flow out into the hallways or it gets too wild and we hear 'chug, chug, chug' ... we have to step 
in." 
"Boys will be boys" 
Students may eomplain about ineonsisteneies within the sys­tem, but Kirk said many times misinformation is to blame. 
"Important to understand is that [the Office of Residence Life and Housing staff mem­bers] don't just manufacture these decisions out of thin air, same is true of girls," she said. "Other colleges around the country are realizing this, too. The guys at Notre Dame aren't necessarily crazier than the girls -they're just allowed to be." 

Kelly Lawrence, assistant director of the Otlice of Alcohol and Drug Education, said he often has students who attest to strieter enforcement in female dorms during peer diseussions. 
"I hear that in the classes a lot," he said. "I think what hap­pens is most of the parties hap­pen in guys' dorms ... that it's maybe a little too strict in girls' dorms." 
Dillon rector Father Paul Doyle said differences in enforcement were due to the subjectivity of hall staff -a neeessary trait, he said. 
"That's what they're paid for, to use their heads. It's not blaek and white," Doyle said. "There are 27 different human beings [as rectors], they're not eookie cutters. Some people would like every dorm to be exaetly alike, and I think that's nuts." 
How does Doyle exercise his judgment? 
"I usually let the girls go when I see something going on in Dillon," he said. 
While students and adminis­trators may often feel lost in an tangle of aecusations and defenses, numbers don't lie. The fifth part of this series will examine data on referrals to the Office of Hesidenee Life and Housing and how Notre Dame discipline eompares to that of its peer institutions. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
--------~---------------------------~----­
Wednesday, November, 16, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Malloy 
continued from page I 
smilo. 
"When I was a student at Notre Damn, I remember tak­ing the bus out to a local n~staurant or onjoying a movio at one of the local the­aters, and I was absolutely surprised to discover the n~gions out of tlw bounds of Notre Damn," he said. "I never did f'igurn out why thorn was such a prohibition about oxploring the riehnnss and varioty or this communi­ty... 
Malloy said he had made community relations a top 
Ringtones for $2.49 Text code to 386 
priority as he had climbed the ranks of the University. 
"South Bend has enjoyed a tradition of honest govern­ment of people who want the bnst for South Bend," Malloy said. "This has always been a community where loaders pull together to make a case for atlracting new business and finding ways to trans­form old neighborhoods. 
"Thore is always a positive spirit, and thus we were able to work to make a differ­nneB." 
Though the relationship between Notre Dame stu­dents and the community has been strained in recent months due to the passage of an ordinance meant to curb 

student partying, Malloy firmly praised the progress the community and the University have made. 
"The Center for Social Concerns motivates people to get involved especially the bright and talented under­graduates at Notre Dame," Malloy said. "There is a posi­tive momentum that has been established that can give us confidence as we move for­ward and do great things in this community." 
Jim Kapsa, acting chair of the llall of Fame banquet, informed Malloy about the llall of Fame honor earlier this· year. 
"lie was taken aback and very honored," Kapsa said. 
"Malloy has done groat things for this community." 
Malloy assured the audi­ence he will continue to work on improving the South Bend community. 
"There is no problem this community can't solve, no issues that we can't build a coalition around, no way in which people that pour into this community can't discov­er what we're all about," Malloy said. "Looking back on my lloosier-dom, I cherish the time I have spent in this . community. I look forward to continuing my commitment in the years ahead." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 


Title My Humps-Black Eyed Peas Hustler's Ambition -50 Cent Stay Fly -Fall Out Boy Run It! -Chris Brown Here We Go Again (feat Kelly Rowland)-Trina We Be Burnin' (legalize It) -Sean Paul I'm Sprung -T-Pain Girl Tonite (feat. Trey Songz) -Twista Don't Cha -Pussycat Dolls Play -David Banner I'm aKing (feat. T.l. and Lil' Scrappy) -P$C Reggaeton Latino -Don Omar 
Text Code 141001 141002 141003 141004 
141009 141010 141011 141012 

Games &Apps for as low as $3. 99* Text code to 386 



141040 141041 141042 141043 
•-.n. . 

141045 141047 141048 141050 141051 

"7 r. ' ' 

1111
"" 

141052 141053 141054 141055 141056 
Graphics for $1.99 rextcodeto386 
Sugar, We're Going Down-Fall Out Boy 141013 
Soul Survivor ­Young Jeezy  141 014  
Gold Digger -Kanye West  141 015  
Presidential  -Youngbloodz  141016  
Hung Up 0Can't Keep Waiting For You) ­Madonna  141017  

Welcome to Jamrock -Damian Marley 141018 

t ~. ~· 
'
'··:,.: :· 
·~ 

141080 141081 141082 
. 
l' ill{~
BOll
... ·...~ 
'
!-i 

141086 141087 141088 
t-!1;~
~~:-~~~' 
/ ....

II •
141083 141084 141085 
G','L 
;..:)
-,~ o.: 
~l
.. " .;, A~# ~ i-t~ 
141089 ' 141090 141091 
Calllarillo to lecture on race 

Special to the Observer Albert Camarillo, Miriam and Peter Haas Centennial Profossor in l'ublir. Servieo at Stanford University, will give a lecture on "The Now Har.ial Frontier in 
Majority­Minority C i t i e s : African­Americans and Latinos in Compton, California, 1950-2000" 


at 5 p . m . Camarillo Thursday in 20S Mr.Kenna llall. Tho lee­turn is froe and open to the public. 
Camarillo, who has pub­lished seven books and more than three dozen articles and essays on the experiences of Mexican-Americans and other immigrant groups in the U.S., will diseuss materi­al from his forthcoming book "Not White, Not Blaek: Mexicans and Haeiai/Ethnie Borderlands in American Cities." 
In "Not White, Not Blaek," Camarillo explores the steady increase of "majority­minority" cities as a signifi­cant demographic: change in urban America over the past generation. lie believes the nation's largest cities with majority populations of peo­ple of color have ereated a "new racial frontier" in 21st century America, and that ethnic and raee relations no longer ean be understood from the dominant historical paradigms of majority versus minority. 
Camarillo is the founding director of the Stanford Center for Chieano Hosearch and founding executive director of the Inter­University Program for Latino Hesearch, now head­quartered at Notre Damn's Institute for Latino Studies. 
The first or two Latino/a History Lectures in the 2005­06 aeademie year, the event is sponsored by the Institute for Latino Studies, Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts and the his tory, American studies and African a studios depart­ments. 
Please 
recycle 

the Observer. 
Jesus of Suburbia -Green Day Lighters Up -Lil' Kim Back Then -Mike Jones Back in Black -AC/DC Shake It Off -Mariah Carey Stewie's Sexy Party -Family Guy Slow Wind -R. Kelly I'm NLuv (Wit a Stripper) -T-Pain My Hood -Young Jeezy Feel Good Inc. -Gorillaz Bad B*tch -Webbie Because I Got High -Afroman 
141019 141020 141021 141022 141023 141024 141025 141026 

page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, November 16, 2005 
Activists protest marriage lavv 
Georgia law allowing children to nzarry is under heavy criticism 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Ever since her 13-year-old niece wed a 14-year-old boy last year, Sharon Cline has sent law­makers a slew of letters :Qeg­ging them to change a Georgia law that allows chil­dren of any age to marry ­without parental consent ­as long as the bride-to-be is pregnant. 
"Some of the lawmakers· just didn't believe this 
House Majority Leader, said Tuesday. "Our legislative counsel -the lawyers who draft the laws -even had to look it up." 
Most states require minors to get their parents' permis­sion before they marry. And if a person is 16 or under, many states require approval from parents and the court. But some states allow minors to marry with­out parental consent in the event of a pregnancy 

could  hap­ "When you're pregnant,  or birth of a  
pen, Cline, lives  said who in  you can get married ­and it doesn't matter if  child, although the couple  
Weston, Fla.  you're nine years old or  may have to  
"It was very frustrating."  1 o years old."  get permis­sion from a  
They're believers  Karla Drenner  court. Still, Keen  
now.  Georgia state representative  and  other  

L i s a Lynnette Clark, 37, was charged last week in Gainesville with child molestation for allegedly having a sexual relationship with a 15-year­old friend of her teenage son. Just days before her arrest, she wed the boy under a Georgia law that allows pregnant couples to marry regardless of age and without consent. 
Disturbed by the child groom, Georgia lawmakers may soon debate changing a law that many didn't know even existed. Geared toward preventing out-of-wedlock births, the law dates back to at least the early 1960s. 
"I never knew it was in the code until this morning," Jerry Keen, the state's 
leaders in 
t h e Rep ub li can-controlled Georgia Legislature stopped short of endorsing a change to the state's marital requirements. 
"It's very difficult to gov­ern by exception. You have to govern by rule," Keen said. 
Instead, Keen and Senate Majority Leader Tommie Williams said the state's GOP lawmakers will focus on passing stricter penalties for those convicted of child molestation. Keen said the legislation would require convicts to spend at least 25 years in prison and wear an electronic tracking device within the state's borders after their release. 
Democratic lawmakers, 
Dining By the Dome 
SAY••. 
''Cheesecake~' 
COFFEE & WINE Proudly Serve 
Domestic & Imported Wine Cheesecakefrom The C11eesecake Factory Seattle Best:~ Coffee & The Republic t!{Tea Joseph Schmidt:~ C1wcolate.from San Fraucisw 
Mon-Fri 7am-JOpm/Sat IOam-lOpm 213 North Main Street, Downtown South Bend 
233-Cafe 
(Now Hiring) 


recently in the minority after more than a century in power, may hope a proposal to change the marriage stan­dards will drive a wedge in the GOP majority. 
State Rep. Karla Drenner said she plans to author a bill that would bar children under age 16 from marrying regardless of the circum­stances or at least would require parental consent. 
As the only openly gay elected official in Georgia's state government, Drenner said the irony of the lax marriage standards for minors is not lost upon her -particularly a year after lawmakers passed a consti­tutional amendment banning gay marriage. 
"We're protecting society from the perceived threat of homosexual marriage, which was already illegal," she said. "But yet if you're preg­nant, you can get married ­and it doesn't matter if you're nine years old or 10 years old." 
Meanwhile, Daniel Sammons, Clark's court­appointed attorney, said he likely will use the marriage as a shield to prevent the boy from testifying against Clark. 
Sammons said his defense is also bolstered by a 2004 
U.S. Supreme Court ruling that restricted prosecutors from using a wife's taped statement to police to try to undermine her husband at a trial. The ruling, he said, will make it difficult for prosecutors to rely on a wit­ness statement that the boy gave detectives. 


S T A U R A N T 
Now Hiring 

~ettenced &rver~ 
App 
m ' 

2ll N. Main St. Downtown South Bend 
232~4445 

www. SiamThaiSouthBend .com 
Tuesday, November 16, 2005 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
FRANCE 
State of etnergency extention to go to Senate 
Associated Press 
PAI!IS -Franco's lower hous1~ of' parliamfHlt voted Ttwsday to ~~xtond a stall~ of erneq{nncy for thren months, aftm tlw government said the extra pow1~rs am still nnmled to end tho country's worst eivil unrnst in four decadns. 
The govnrnnumt also moved to deport I 0 fowigners convict­ed during tlw 19 days of vio­lence in troubled poor neigh­borhoods. 
The National Assmnbly voted 346-14H f'or the extension, which would keep the measure in placn through mid-February. The nwasure goes next to the Senate, wh11re it is expected to be approved Wednesday and go into eiTect at midnight Monday. 
Tho opposition Socialist Party argued against an extension, saying emergency measures wern no longer needed beeause violnnce is abating. But the extension passed with support from President Jacques Chirac's governing conserva­tives backed by centrist law­makers. 
The 12-day state of emer­gency was declared Nov. 9. 
National Police Chief Michel Gaudin said vandals torched 215 vehicles overnight, contin­uing a steady decline that showed France was "getting back to normal" after nights of arson attacks, elashes with police and other unrest. 

Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy, arguing for the exten­sion, said that because of the unrest, France faces one of its "sharpest and most complex urban crises." 
Sarkozy, who many immi­grants say has fanned the vio­lence with combative talk. told the National Assembly that many people live with "fear in the belly" because of crime in tough areas. 
"The state of emergency has been, is and will be applied with discretion," Sarkozy said. "The stakes are considerable. If republican order does not rule in these neighborhoods, gangs and extremists will." 
The crisis has led to collec­tive soul-searching about France's failure to integrate its African and Muslim minoritins. Anger about high unmnploy­ment and discrimination has fanned frustration among the French-born children of immi­grants. 
While violence has cased, Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin told parliament that "the situation remains dil1icult in a great number of neighbor­hoods. We cannot accept that more than 200 cars burn each night." 
lie said the emergency meas­ures could be lifted before three months if "peace is restored in a lasting manner." 


WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK~ 
s•s7oN.IRONwoooon. SOUTH BEND/MISHAWAKA 5343N.MAINST. 
57 4.277.8500 57 4.968.4600 
''YOUR MOM WANTS YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOliN'S!'' © 
page II 
AFGHANISTAN 
Soldier killed in explosion 
Afghani president predicts similar terror attacks in the future 
Associated Press 
KABUL -A U.S. soldier was killed Tuesday when a bomb exploded near a troop patrol in volatile eastern Afghanistan, while President Hamid Karzai said he expeets terror attacks to continue in his country "for mueh morn time to come." 
The attack occurred a day after suieide bombers rammed cars filled with nxplosives into NATO peacekeepers in two attacks in the Afghan capital ­the first major assault on foreign tr.oops in Kabul in more than a year. The death toll rose to nine Tuesday as police found morn bodies in a ditch and a wounded man died. 
Polieo blamed al-Qaida li1r the suieide bombings. Sueh seeming­ly eoordinated attaeks are unprecedented in Afghanistan and reinlilfl~ed fears that Osama bin Laden's terror network has teamed up with its old ally the Taliban, which daimml responsi­bility for the attacks. 
In Tuosday's violence, U.S. and Afghan troops were traveling in an armored vehide in Paktika province near the Pakistani bor­der when the roadside bomb exploded, killing an American soldier. The blast also woundod another U.S. soldier, two Afghan soldiers and a eivilian, the mili­tary said. 
This year has been the dead­liest for U.S. troops in Afghanistan since tho Taliban was oustnd in 2001. At least H7 
U.S. military personnel have been killed or died in <u~eidents. Nnarly 1,500 Afghan civilians. security f'orecs and rebels also have died. 
Militants also lired two rocknb into Kabul late Tuesday, landing one about half a mile from the headquarters of NATO peace­keepers. said Lt. Col. Cristoni Hiecar, a spokesman for the lilfl~n. No easualtins worn report­ed. 
Karzai said he expect<; the vio­lence to continue. 

"Terrorism will remain to aiTeet us. will rnmain to attack us. for much more time to come," Karzai told reporters while attending an Islam wnli•r­ence in Austria. "What is impor­tant fi1r us right now is to eontin­ue to ... strengthen demoeratk institutions." 
A'iknd about the new suspneted link between al-Qaida and tlw Taliban, Karzai said the two groups never eeasnd to eoopl\r­atn. 
"It's tho same thing -it's tnr­rorisl<;," he said. 

Monday's bombings appeared to be part of a nnw eampaihrn by militants to usn suieido assailant'> in Afghanistan. Until two months ago, they wore relatively rarn here, unlike in Iraq. But sincn then, 1\ight such assaults havn bmm used nationwide. 
Investigators reeovorml parts of the bodies of' the two bomb1\rs in Kabul and said the attackers appeared to have been Arabs, police commander Gen. Mohammed Akbar said. 
-------------~-----------­


page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Nwe Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 63[-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 63!-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.ed)l 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 spons.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene. I @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refitse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, A,sistant ManagiRg Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefC/itire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obsct."Vcc {USPS 599 2-4QOO) is published Monday chwugh Friday except dl.lring exam and vaouion periods. A.subscription !O The Ob~rvcr is $100 for Qnc academic year; s;; for one semester. 
The Observer i.s published ar. POSTMASTER 024 $t)uth Dining Hall Send. addr~s com:alons to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodic:al posc:age paid .at Notte O.unc: ro.Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 SoUlh Dining Hall 
Norre.Damc:, IN 46556-0n9 
Tht Oh.sc:rvcr is o1 membtr vfthl.' Mociared Prc!Si. AU reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kate Antonacci Bobby Griffin Lisa Schultz Ken Fowler Kaitlynn Riely Jay Fitzpatrick Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Brian Doxtader Brauweiler Illustrator Graphics Meg Dwyer Kelly MacDonald 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT Wednesday, November 16, 2005 
The people's priest 
In September 1958, a priest of 42 stood in front of the formidable Chicago City Council on the subject of urban renewal to say what no other Chicago leader would -the city's plan to rebuild and reconstruct a south side neighborhood would displace the poor and mainly minority residents. He stated that the Catholic Church's vested interest was in the lives of peo­ple, especially the poor. Any plan to rebuild Chicago had to be constructed K-Mart's Blue with justice and Light Special concern for every-one's needs, especially the poor. Many criticized his taking public stance, saying it was not his place as a priest to take such a role out front, challeng­ing the city. He stated then explaining his actions "A priest is also a pastor and a teacher. Occasions may come when he is forced to say things that will be regarded as unkind. So be it ... stern words and honest ones are fre­quently spoken in love and charity too." 
That priest was Monsignor Jack J. Egan who advocated for the poor and marginalized throughout his work in Chicago and here at Notre Dame. Without Msgr. Egan many of Chicago's powerful community organizations, social services and diocese justice programs would not exist, or not have been as effective. The relationships Egan made between the Catholic Church and justice movers were vital. Beyond standing against displacing peoples from urban areas in the '50s, he helped in organizing civil rights and justice organizations in Chicago to stop racial violence and terrorism, 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
ASIA TR~? FORTIJN'E.: 

marched with civil rights leaders in Selma, Ala., was a leader in organiz­ing clerics in Chicago for greater democracy within the priesthood and reached out to leaders of other denominations and faiths. Msgr. Egan was a prophetic voice for human dig­nity, racial justice and workers' rights, while working in a style that welcomed other faith communities, uplifted the laity and recognized the dignity of women. In his last years in Chicago, he worked with activists to pass restrictions on Pay Day Loan shops who preyed on the poor, charg­ing up to 500 percent interest on small loans. 
Egan also blessed this campus with his organizing know-how and public relationships. He brought with him into Notre Dame his network of justice organizations contacts. which were vital in helping the people who started the Center for Social Concerns. He founded the Catholic Committee for Urban Ministry as special counselor to Father Ted Hesburgh. 
In remembering Egan, a couple of concerns come to mind. For myself. I grew up in the Chicago Catholic Church, worked for two organizations Egan helped build or worked with and practically lived at the Notre Dame Center for Social Concerns. Through my time in all of these institutions, I never heard anything about Egan. The institutional memory of these institutions is severely lacking. Formation is vital in building commu­nity and teaching people. At the Center for Social Concerns, for exam­ple, how can they be effectively form­ing the young people who arc active there without providing models for their action? Egan took his faith, beliefs in the value of people and the necessity to work for the kingdom of God on earth into the city. Egan was not afraid to challenge systems in the city he grew up in and lived in. Notre Dame students of conscience arc quick to flock overseas to do good work, and we praise them for it. Yet how are we challenging young people to look to their home communities and act where they-as college stu­dents of means-have a greater abil­ity to influence the situation? How are students challenged to see and respond to the marginalized "other" in their home cities or here at Notre Dame? 
We -clerics, theologians and lay people -need the reminder of Egan to keep us on the path that leads to the kingdom of God. We need him to show us we should be standing with the workers, the oppressed and the forgotten in our arms' reach. 
So, I am calling this University to have a memorial and a summer schol­ar service program in honor of Egan, fitting for his life. I will work with others to raise the funds and design this memorial until it is finished and also to design a summer program that will bring Notre Dame students to Chicago for the summer to work with organizations Egan loved and worked with to learn about his life and prayerfully re11ect on the role of the church to stand tall in struggles for justice. It is my hope Egan's witness will help Notre Dame's students and administrators to see this place as more than a football school or a busi­ness, but as a community where our actions -especially economic ­affect each other's ability to live digni­fied lives. 
Ka"maria H. Porter is a senior and enjoying writing an extended paper on Monsignor Jack Egan. She can be reached at kporter@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
SO SORRY.. B 
IRAQ Atro A 


OBSERVER POLL 
Are you planning to go to the last pep rally? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Submit aLetter 
to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Music is well said to be the speech ofangels." 
Thomas Carlyle 
British historian 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Wednesday, November 16, 2005 page 13 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
It should be a 'W' 

In my five years horn at Notre Dame, I have game. Imagine if you were able to look out nnvnr seen f(HJtball gamns at Notre Dame from the student section and sec and hear Stadium likn I have this year. The way that the entire stadium fhL'ihing tho "Ws" and the 2005 fi1olball team plays and carries il'inlf chanting "Wnis-Wnis-Weis ..."You'd feel lHL'i brought !if(~ back to tho fans that come something speeial. horn on a football Saturday. It's not that the "C" wouldn't have the same 
I rnmnmbm· back to fmshman year, won­cllcet-it certainly would. But tills year, dering why only Uw sludnnl'i fannnd lhnir from the very first gamn in Pitl'iburgh, the arms bntwnnn tho 3rd and 4th quarters as majority of the fans continued the "Ws." llw band played tlw 1 X12 Ovnrture. Non-stu­A'i we near the last home game of the sea­dPnt fans never usnd to join in during the hL'it son, it is tl1e "W" that is slowly being passed f(ntr years I've bonn hnre. And yet, game around the stadium. Confusion about "the allnr ganw, P~'Jl rally after pep rally, this ynar right thing" will eauso too many poople to morn and morn pnopln am joining in. miss the point. It's all about solidarity-one 
I don't know if you look around the stadium common purposn -all 80,000 people togeth­wlwn llw "Ws" an• going, but it looks inamli­er, eager for the lcL'il 15 minutes of' lilotballlo bln. start. It's about a groat tradition of'showing 
Why do wn all g«~l so nxdtnd when the gratitude fbr the mach, thanking him for a wav«~ makes it around the stadium, or «wen groat af'lernoon of' football. It's about pride in morP Pxdted wlwn we have two waves going being Notre Damn. And this ynar, it's about in oppositP dirnrtions and tlwy cross ear.h Wnis. ot.lwr and kenp going'? A lot of it has to do John Wrenn with thP fi~Piing that nveryotw in that stadium 
SCiliO( 

earns about what is going on, is paying altlm­off-campus t.ion and wants to enjoy every aspect of' t.lw Nov. 15 
Naval thanks 

l'lnasn eonvPy my commendation and thanks to Peter Schroeder for his Nov. 14 eolurnn in The Observnr on the Navy-Notre Dame football game, "The loudest silenen." Your team, your coach, your fans, your newspaper and Peter Schroeder made an old Naval Academy graduate proud. 
However, I was present 42 years ago when Navy did triumph and it was as good as beating Army. It was made even better as I was siting next to my brother-in­law, a Notre Dame graduate and diehard fan. He would not speak for an hour al'ler the game. 
We look forward to next year. 
Miller Andress class of 1955 United States Naval Academy Nov. 15 
Care package help 

Many of you have probably read about the NOAA are sending over 100 care pack­the Notm Dame Accounting Association's ages to deployed members of the Notre drive to snnd care packages to our Dame family. Each one will contain news deployed troops. I am a Notre Dame alum­from the Bend, Christmas cards and good­nus, currnnl graduate student and Army ies. The NOAA is soliciting donations of vetnran who benefited from the kindness food, Christmas music, notes of support and gmwrosity of students, faculty mem­and money for postage (this week in the bers and slaiT while doploynd to the desert Mendoza atrium, from lOa.m.-2 p.m.). during Operation Iraqi Frnedom. Between football, finals and holidays, it's 
I cannotnxpmss just how thrilled and easy to forget just how big an impact we humblnd I was to recnivo a box full of can have. Please support our deployed ser­cards, goodies, Observers, Christmas vicemembers for whom the holidays mean music and "The Shirt." That amazing show just another workday in the desert, a time of support gave a lrnmendous lift to my away from home and their loved ones. spirits. This, more than anything during my six years at Notrn Dame, shownd me Christopher Welch what it moans to be part of the Notre graduate student Damn family. class of 2002 
This ynar, Professor Margot O'Brien and Nov. 14 
U-WIRE 
America's downfall 
A study released last Wednesday by Television shows such as Fox's "24" the Kaiser Family Foundation suggest­depend on short shot lengths and ed that nearly 70 percent of television quick aetion sequnnces to eaplivatn the shows in elude some form of sexual viewer. Others, like Vlll 's "Best Week content, according to The Associated Ever," utilize brightmlors to hypnotize Press. On average, the viewer. television shows Farraz Tho purpose bnhind thesn fast and portray five sex Khan loud tactics is essentially to maintain scenes per hour, tho viewer's altontion. Slowly, though, with the most pop­University of those tactics transform the way a per­ular leon shows Texas son is able to view and interpret the depieting almost Daily Texan rnal world. seven somes per Tho inevitable rnsult is increased hour. impatience. With an altnntion span 
The study also noted that the num­impairnd by the ladies of program ber of sex scenes has increased produenrs, a person now expects twofold in the past seven years. instant gratification in all of his expnri­
This growth in the portrayal of sex nncns and has littln rnspnd for hard -induding sexual dialogue and aetion work. A dear nxampln of this is tlw -is an entirely prndietable develop-popularity of the gnt-rieh-quir.k mont. For years, m11dia moguls and sdwmns that attract so many. advertising executivns have pledgnd Evnn n1~ws shows at.tnmpl. to attract their allegiance to a singular axiom: and nnlertain llw massns, ratlwr than Sex sells. to properly inform tlwm. Shows on 
Likewise, entertainment companies news dmnnels likn CNN and Fox Nnws have employed ladies to cement their foeus on easily consumable slorins likn hold on market share. The obvious homieides or celebrity scandals, rallwr impetus behind these tactics is the than on morn rehwanl but loss oxeit.ing increasingly competitive environment issues such as heart disease or povnrty. inhabitnd by media companies, in The rosull is an uninformed publk. which ratings are supreme. An informed consent is tho keystone 
Today, six media conglomerates con­in the success of' any democratie sys­trol the vast majority of television pro­tnm. However, it seems as if the sue­gramming. Dedicatnd to the pursuit of cess and prosperity of the United a fat bottom line, these corporations States is determined by individuals construct their products in ways to who know that Brad and Jennifer attract and retain huge audiences. broke up but haven't the faintest due They produce shows that are easily what is happening in Darfur. accessible to the masses -ones that Quite simply, we as individuals usually include a variety of bright col­become what we consume: Useless ors, painfully simple plot lines and lots masses that have nothing substantial of pretty people. to offer to ourselves or to society. 
Ultimately, this notion of widespread But whose fault is it-the producers accessibility is the very notion that jus­or the consumers of this valueless pro­tifies vacuous, vapid entertainment gramming? entirely devoid of intellectual stimula­An equal, if not greater, amount of tion or social value. blame must be assigned to us, the 
An illustrative example is the popu­viewers. After all, millions of teens lar MTV reality show "Laguna Beach." tune in every week to the latest The show consists of a handful of episode of "Laguna Beach" to watch superficial, self-centered teens who the "kinda pretty girl" call the "really constantly bicker about their friends, pretty girl" mean. boyfriends and girlfriends. What the Ultimately, our ability to produce and program lacks in plot, characters and offer something worthwhile to our­elementary storytelling capacity, it selves and to the world depends on us. makes up for in catchy tunes, attrac­We must realize that we don't have tive blondes and opulent surroundings. to consume television programs simply 
Subconsciously, the program works because they are there. We must rnal­to cultivate the most distasteful quali­ize that we can turn ofT the lube if ties in young people. At the same time, nothing important is on. We must real­it fails to offer any sort of information ize that we have the power to change capable of inspiring thought or reflec­what media bigwigs eonsider "aeeessi­tion. ble to the masses." 
The brutal fact is that television pro­And that's all available at a click of a gramming is not founded on the value remote eontrol button. of public good, but on the greed of media groups and advertisers. This column originally appeared in 
The results of such programming the Nov. 15 issue ofThe Daily '/han. extend far beyond temporal entertain­the daily publication at the llni11ersity ment. The devastating effects of those ofTexas. kinds of programs suffuse our lives, The views expressed in this column inhibiting our abilities to be produc­are those ofthe author and not neces­tive. sarily those ofThe Obser11er. 
Give students a choice 
It was to he 1~xpectnd. Al'lor spending a good part should otTer them the ehoico to remain at UC will be focusing on rebuilding. their basic infrastruc­of' the snrnnswr in Berkelny and faced with the Berkeley through tho spring. ture, students won't be getting the sanw quality of daunting prospect of returning to The university has committed to sending students education as they would havn bef'orn the hurricann.
Staff

a recovering New Orleans, a back by the semester's end in order to support the Whether stud1mts rnlurn should hn up to thorn.
Editorial

group of students displaced by recovery of Nnw Orleans universities. Aside from The university shouldn'l hesitaln to o!Tnr these stu­Hurricane Katrina and sympa­the f'ivc universities' key role in re-establishing the dents saneluary for another smnnsler.
University of 

thiwrs is asking tlw Univ11rsily arna, they need tuition to carry on. This is a noble
California­

of' California-Berkeley to intention, but thn university shouldn't take it upon This editorial originally appeared in t.he Nrm 15
Berkeley

nxlend tlwir stay for another ilsnlf to force students baek into a f'lood-ravaged issue oj' The /Jaily Cal(fornian, the daily puMicafion
Daily

sPnwster. Tlw univnrsily is hav­area. Look at it from students' perspeelivn: The New at the l!nit,ersit.y of Cal(fornia-!Jerkeley.
Califbrnian 

ing nono of it. Orleans univnrsitins say they'll be up and running in The views expressed in this editorial are those of Let's get one thing straight: While the studnnts a few n1onths' lime, but how will that translate into the author and not necessarily those of The should go back as soon as possihln, the university reality'? In an environment whore the universities Observer. 


r-----------~-------------·----------­
page 14 
"Pride and Prejudi
_·f'::; 
,, ~,lAtter-Day "'v..uv"' 
. •ijf. 
(2003) ·~In the Mormon · . : ~version of "Pride and Plejudice,,. Elizabeth Bennet i~dent at a predominan~ Latterpay Sain'tti. . . itj who ha~ decided · the 
dating the 
...""._on ~ting;a ly, s}to' becomes involve(t witlt a 
dasning young ml1lcnarned Wickham and is strangely interested in an overly levelheaded businessman named Darcy. 

By CASSIE BELEK 
Scene Critic 

With a near-perfect and wildly popular miniseries just 10 years old, it does not seem as if "Pride and Prejudice," Jane Austen's most-celebrated novel of her short writing career, is ready for another adaptation. Of course, missing the opportunity to do a remake just because it is too soon has never been the Hollywood way. 
Enter director Joe Wright, who has the chal­lenge of recreating the world of the Bennet sisters, while making his film distinct from the 1995 A&E minis­eries and remain­

Nov. 23 (wide)
mention keeping were most skeptical
Director: Joe Wright 
"Janenites" across upon hearing that the 
Screenwriter: Deborah Moggach
the world happy. film was being made,
Starring: Keira Knightley, Simon Woods, 
The result is a film and even more skeptical
Matthew MacFadyen and Brenda Blethyn 
that has critics upon learning that Keira 
buzzing and has already garnered Oscar hype. 

"Pride and Prejudice," starring Keira Knightley as Elizabeth Bennet and Matthew MacFadyen as Mr. Darcy, is a love story set in a time when a mother's primary objective in life is to marry off her daughters to wealthy bachelors and intelligent and an independent young woman like Lizzie Bennet is a rarity. The movie follows the five Bennet girls -Jftne, Lizzie, Mary, Kitty and Lydia -as their comically interfering mother (Brenda Blethyn) attempts to match them with suitable hus­bands. 
When Mr. Bingley moves into the neighbor­hood and brings his handsome friend Mr. Darcy, both Jane and Lizzie seem to have struck gold. Yet it is only Jane who finds love with Mr. Bingley as Darcy's pride interferes with his ability to open his heart to someone as inferior in status as Lizzie. 
Likewise, Lizzie hears horrible details of Darcy's character from new friend Mr. Wickham (Rupert Friend), whose own charac­
courtesy 

Knightley was going to fill the role of their dear Lizzie. 
The casting of Lizzie is essential to the film, and Knightley simply does not fit the descrip­tion in the novel. While Elizabeth is supposed to be beautiful, she is not supposed to be as strikingly picturesque as Knightley. In the novel, older sister Jane is the real beauty. 
Yet, Knightley is stunning and the camera loves her. In fact, Wright was even skeptical of casting Knightley because she was too attrac­tive. Jennifer Ehle of the miniseries looked the part much better, but there is more to Lizzie than just her outward appearance. If Knightley can pull off the feminist and free­spirit aspects of Elizabeth, then she will have succeeded as much as Ehle did. 
As important as casting Lizzie is, the film would be in tatters if not for the perfect Darcy. Judging from theatrical trailers for the movie, MacFadyen is certainly handsome enough, and even in the small moments he has been seen he seems to have that Darcy pride and mystique. 
Contact Cassie Belek at cbel 

page 15 

----======== 



tlwm that there~ nn Darcy in this 
isnrins bneausn it trun to thn novnl dons not eompro­any storylines. It ly has no rnason to romisn within its our running time. r as minisnries go, dn and Prejudien" is as popular as ots" and "The snts are pnrennial 
wo hours long, so hompson, who has lilm (I <J<J5's "Sense by Ang l.ee), even d ro-write of' the t is thn captur­and prnviow critics re saying that has 
the film with an tly pkk it apart (a e "llarry Potter" newcomnr should 
ve story between >arey, maybn it will for the nnxt 
English paper, yet play one of" its filmic incarnations (or a film inspired by the novel) in any girl's dormitory and it would be granted instant rneognition. Somehow, this outwardly simple and romantic tale left an inerasable mark on both classic literature and pop-cui­turn. 
With its opnning line of "It is a truth univer­sally acknowledged, that a single man in pos­session of a good fortune, must bn in want of a wife," Austen's book leaps into the story of a middle class family and their struggles to "marry orr· five daughters. The novel focuses on Elizabeth Bennet, the second oldest and most independent of the five. 
The village of Longbourn is thrown into excitement when it is revealed that "Netherfield is let at last," and by a very wealthy, and single, young gentleman, Mr. Bingley. Soon, the Bonnets finally catch sight of Mr. Bingley and his friends at a town ball where he becomes quite taken with Elizabeth's older sister, Jane. 
Elizabeth herself is scorned by Mr. Bingley's friend, Mr. Darcy, who refuses to dance with her. In turn Elizabeth brushes otT the insult and Mr. Darcy loses his standing in her eyes, but as the rest of the novel reveals, pride can be a burden and first impressions a mistake. 
"Pride and Prejudice," like most of Austen's novels, centers its action around marriage and its meaning on good choice and character, but as author and editor Ronald Blythe comment­ed, "Jane Austen can in fact get more drama out of morality than most other writers can get from shipwreck; battle, murder or mayhem." 

Jane Austen pulls her readers into the world of Elizabeth through the novel's entertaining and suspenseful plot, clever dialogue and unforget­table characters. 
Beyond its simple appeal as a story, "Pride and Prejudice" provides a beautiful illustration and satire of a class and age. "Pride and Prejudice" is a tongue-in-cheek criticism of many of the Hegency Era's faults, focusing on the differences in status between the middle and upper classes as it leaves out almost any presence of the lower classes. 
Throughout the novel. Austen disparages the rifts between these two classes as she presents Mr. Collins as a bumbling sycophant and Mr. Wickham as a class climber at any cost. She also makes Mr. Darcy's main obstacle overcom­ing his own pride, and ultimately illustrates the positive effects of letting love prevail over class prejudice. 
Perhaps "Pride and Prejudice" is such a widely acclaimed and accepted novel because of its versatility. It is both one of literature's great works and chick-lit's ultimate master­pieces. It paints a beautiful picture of its era and then reaches beyond it. It contains charac­ters that are romantic, and yet familiar and accessible -they are full of their own faults, their prides and prejudices. 
Jane Austen described her own "Pride and Prejudice" as "rather too light, and bright, and sparkling," but history has seen fit to deem it a "truth universally acknowledge" that it is as radiant as it should be. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 

Mr. Darcy (Colin Firth) and Elizabeth Bennet (Jennifer Ehle) star In the 1996 mini-series version of Jane Austen's "Pride and Prejudice." It's being remade by Joe Wright with Keira Knlghtley and Matthew MacFadyen in the lead roles. 
Photo courtesy of members.aol.com 

"'Bride aud Prejudice" 

) 
With it Like Beckham Chadha at and u.........rn 
Prejudice" spectacle and Bollywood. Reset 
Amritsat, lnd~ East meets West as the beautiful and 'illtel!i,gent Indian Lalita and proud American business tycoon Will follow the footsteps ofElizabeth and Darcy in a wonderfully fun 
and vibrant movie guaranteed tomake you want to jump up and join ~ , 
the characters in a world of music and color. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, November 16, 2005 
DVD REVIEW 
Final ~star Wars' film arrives on DVD 
By MARK BEMENDERFER AND TAEANDREWS Scene Crirics 
Mark says: For a while, it seems that Christopher Lee couldn't act without a blue screen. Heturning to his role as Count Dooku from "Episode II: Attack of the Clones," the 83-year old actor somehow manages to pull off moves that appear impossible by even a younger man's standards. 
That's because they are. 

"Star Wars Episde III: Hevenge of the Sith" contains the best special effects that llollywood has to offer, yet in the end its all mere eye-candy. When the audience sees Lee duel against much younger opponents. a sense of disbelief accompany the on-scn~en action. Not because Lee happens to be pretty mobile for 83. but due to his digitally rendered better self. 
The movie simply feels too artificial. 

When it is obvious that the audience is seeing two actors in front of a blue screen, it's impossible to be drawn into the movie. Not that the movie itself had much going for it beyond the eye­candy. The acting is some of the worse seen in any Hollywood film in recent memory. 
The actors are not entirely to blame, though, since some of the poor acting is due to the script. The poor dialogue coincides with every scene that is 
.o:'""-meant to be emotionally charged for the audience. There were several examples of this, most noticeably dur­ing every exchange between Anakin and Padme. The story is competent, but only because it serves as a bridge from the prequels to the original trilogy. The audience learns how the Republic became the Empire, how Anakin becomes Vader and how several char­acters end up where they do in the galaxies. Another culprit that might have caused bad acting can be attributed to all the blue screen effects. Not only is it hard to get into character in empty surroundings, but everything that is going on in the background tends to overshadow the drama. The special features on the DVD are 


worth watching to see how LucasArts crafted the movie. The commentary track is especially valuable, as it show­cases director and write George Lucas, producer Rick McCallum, animation director Hob Coleman, John Knoll and Hoger Guyett. They give various insights into the production of the movie, such as how they did the star­ship battle over Coruscant and how they transformed Lee into a blur of motion. 
The usual deleted scenes are also present for viewing pleasure -many of them showcasing a great deal of computer rendered images. Two of them should be of particular interest for fans of the series. "Grievous Slaughters a Jedi: Escape from the General" has exactly what it promises, which makes Grievous a more menac­ing figure as he executes a Jedi from the animated series. The second one of interest is "Exiled to Dagobah," which is a small glimpse of Yoda's initial time on Dagobah. 
There are several other features and 
documentaries on the DVD, with "Within A Minute" offering the most for fans. The featurette takes a single minute from the movie, and breaks it down com­pletely to its base parts. Highlighting all the work that went into that solitary minute takes over two hours to watch, which shows how much work is put into a special effects extravaganza. 

This movie is aimed at select crowds, and for those crowds it does its job admirably. "Star Wars" fans will find in the movie the proverbial missing link, while special effects hounds will love it for the overwhelming eye-candy. 
However, everyone else will find this movie to be merely average. 
Tae says: Critical fans of the "Star Wars" franchise awaited the release of "Episode III: Revenge of the Sith" with baited breath. After the first two films of his prequel trilogy failed to live up to quality of the originals, would director George Lucas strike out, or would the third time be the charm? 
"Episode III" is a satisfying segue between the prequels and the original three Star Wars films -while it still cannot match the exalted status of the "Holy Trinity," Lucas manages to get enough of it right to make fans remem­ber why they first made the jump to hyperspace a long time ago in a galaxy far, far away. 
Quite possibly the worst travesty of "Episodes I" and "Episodes II" was their portrayal of Anakin Skywalker, AKA man who becomes Darth Vader. In Episode I, Anakin is an annoying bowl­cut little tyke who goes by the rather effeminate nickname of "Annie." Orphan or not, the future Dark Lord of the Sith should still be more reminis­cent of the gruff Daddy Warbucks than of the curly carrot-top with the pen­chant for breaking out into song. 
The only cool thing learned about Anakin is that he was born of a vestal virgin, making him a sort of dark, twisted messianic figure. "Episode II" continued to disappoint in terms of Anakin's characterization -Anakin is a whiny adolescent consumed by teen angst and his obsession for Padme. 
In Lucas' third installation of the pre­quel trilogy, gone is the mop-top child and surly adolescent, replaced by a Dark Jedi worthy of his prophecy as "the one who will bring balance to the Force." Hayden Christensen finally delivers as the brooding. deadly Anakin Skywalker. Having grown his hair out and taking to wearing darker Jedi robes, Anakin looks like a sci-11 grunge rock star, only he is a virtuoso with a lightsaber, not a microphone. . 
Still, there are times when it is diffi­cult to remember why exactly Anakin is so consumPd by anger and hatred ­after all, not only is he the best fighter pilot in the galaxy, but he also gets to date Natalie Portman, bringing an entirely new meaning to his title as "The Chosen One." 
True to the form of the first two installments of the prequels, the dia­logue is again rocky. Listening to Lucas' love scenes is an experience very much akin to navigating an aster­oid field: you just have to weather the small debris and brace for impact from the larger clunkers. 
For example, in one romantic inter­lude against the backdrop of the glit­tering Coruscant cityscape, viewers are treated to the following exchange: "You ... are so beautiful. It's only because I'm so in love. No, no, it's because I'm so in love with you." By the twin suns of Tatooine, that is terrible. 
However, composer John Williams' score is again breathtaking, thankfully providing a steady constant theme of excellence throughout all six "Star Wars" films. Visually, Lucas is truly in a class of his own. He has created a filmic microcosm and is more than happy to give his viewers a joyride through his artificial world. 
Fans are once again treated to seeing Yoda in action, proving that the diminutive Jedi master is the most delectable green package to come in pint-sized form since Ben & Jerry's mint chocolate chip ice cream. 
The film's ending is epic, with the mother of all lightsaber duels between Anakin and Obi-Wan, and Anakin's Frankenstein-esque transformation into_ the cyborg Darth Vader. Seeing Vader's skeletal mask again and hear­ing the same James Earl Jones bari­tone which raised hairs on the necks of audience members back in the '70s, is more than enough to remind the view­er that, in the words of AC/DC, the Dark Lord of the Sith is back in black. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu and Tae Andrews at tandrewsl@nd.edu 

Uneven dialogue in the love scenes between Anakin (Hayden Christensen) and The DVD highlights many of the best scenes, including the epic final duel Padme (Natalie Portman) is one of the major problems in "Revenge of the Sith." between Anakin (Hayden Christensen) and Obi-Wan Kenobi (Ewan McGregor). 
Wednesday, November 16, 2005 
THE WORLD'S MOST FAMOUS CHILDREN'S CHOIR 
VIENNA CHOIR BOYS 
Sun. Nov. 27 at 3 pm I leighton Concert Hall Student Tickets: $10 

-
page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 16, 2005 
NBA 

T-Mac's 25lead Houston over Minnesota 
McGrady made 13-13 free throws and grabbed eight rebounds in the 94-89 win 
Associated Press scored just two points in the first quarter but followed with 
MINNEAPOLIS Tracy 14 in the second. 14 in the third McGrady scored 25 points and and seven in the fourth before made three consecutive clutch leaving with 2:32 left. plays down the stretch to lead Cavaliers coach Mike Brown the Houston Rockets to a 94-89 tried to substitute for James victory over the Minnesota "three or four times" in the first Timberwolves on Tuesday night. quarter, but it seemed like as 
McGrady, who went 13-for-13 soon as Jackson vacated his seat at the free-throw line, grabbed and headed for the scorer's eight rebounds and had 13 table, James responded with big points in the fourth quarter. He plays. hit a long jumper over Trenton Hassell with 2:35 remaining to Miami 109, New Orleans 102 put Houston up for good, 85-84, MIAMI -Dwyane Wade after trailing most of the night. scored Miami's final eight points 
After Wally Szczerbiak missed in the fourth quarter, and James a shot on the other end, Posey and Gary Payton each hit McGrady zipped a pretty pass a key 3-pointer in overtime to from the top of the key to give help the Heat rally past the New Rafer Alston -who had beaten Orleans Hornets on Tuesday Troy Hudson on a backdoor cut night. -an easy layup with 2:04 left. Wade finished with 25 points 
Then Hassell's risky cross­and 10 assists, but it was his court pass was stolen by play down the stretch during McGrady on the following pos­regulation that gave the Heat a session to seal a much-needed chance to win their third victory for the Rockets, who had straight game without center lost four of their previous five Shaquille O'Neal. games. With Miami trailing 90-83 
Kevin Garnett led Minnesota with 1:59 left, Wade scored the with 25 points, and Wally final seven points, including a Szczerbiak scored 12 points on tying jumper with 35 seconds 5-for-14 shooting. remaining to force overtime at 
McGrady returned from a 90-all. bout with back spasms to score Posey started overtime with a 30 of his 35 points in the second 3 -his first points of the game half of a win at New Jersey on -and Payton followed with Saturday. He was held to 14 another as Miami opened a 96­points the next night in a 20-90 lead to take command. Posey point loss at Boston. knocked down another 3-point­

The first half wasn't so er as Miami built a 101-94 cush­smooth for McGrady, who shot ion with 1:43 remaining. only 1-for-6 and had four The Hornets lost for the third mismatched pair, the two are points and the Sixers shot 77 points off the bench for the turnovers over the first 24 min­straight game, but not without dominating -and woeful percent overall as they raced to Nets. utes. But he came through when giving the Heat a scare. Toronto was the latest team to a 19-point lead. Rashard Lewis had 29 points his team needed him most. P.J. Brown's three-point play pay. When the two failed to click in for Seattle, which was playing 
capped a 10-2 spurt, putting Iverson scored 34 points and the fmal 2 1/2 months last sea­its fifth game of a six-game road Cleveland 114, Washington 99 New Orleans ahead 87-80 with added 12 assists, Webber had son, there were serious doubts trip that concludes Wednesday 
CLEVELAND -Every time 4:08 left in the fourth quarter. 28 points and 16 rebounds and they could thrive together. night in Boston. The Luke Jackson got up off the A short jumper by Brown gave the Philadelphia 76ers won Instead, they have combined for SuperSonics lost the first three bench, LeBron James knocked the Hornets a 90-83 lead before their fifth straight game over five double-doubles during the games by a total of 93 points down another shot. Wade took over. During that the winless Raptors on Tuesday winning streak and always look before winning at· Toronto 
"If LeBron is hitting 3-point­stretch, he had an outside night. to each other as the first option. Sunday. ers, you've got to let him keep jumper, a three-point play and Since losing their first three Allen finished with 19 points rolling," Jackson said. "Nobody another jumper from the top of games, the streaking Sixers New Jersey 109, Seattle 99 but had 18 field goal attempts, has a problem with leaving him the key to tie it. have been perfect. They won all EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. -making only four. in when he's like that." Following a miss by David four games on their longest Nenad Krstic scored a season­Trailing 79-70 to begin the 
James scored a season-high West, the Heat. had the final homestand of the year and get high 25 points and New Jersey fourth quarter, Seattle closed to 37 points and Larry Hughes possession, but Wade's shot the downtrodden Raptors again held Ray Allen without a field 87-86 on a fadeaway by Allen, added 22 in his first game from beyond the top of the key Wednesday night in Toronto. goal for three quarters as the who entered the game tied for against his former team as the bounced out as time expired. Iverson and Webber again led Nets defeated the Seattle 10th in the NBA in scoring at Cleveland Cavaliers roughed up the way for the Atlantic SuperSonics Tuesday night. 23.7 points per game. But the the Washington Wizards on Philadelphia 104, Toronto 92 Division-leading Sixers, break­Vince Carter and Richard Nets pushed the score back to Tuesday night. PHILADELPHIA -Allen ing the game open in the first Jefferson added 19 points for 99-90, aided by six points from 
James, who helped recruit Iverson and Chris Webber are quarter. Webber made all six New Jersey, which snapped a Carter and a steal and layup by Hughes as a free agent to playing more like a dynamic duo baskets and scored 14 points, two-game losing streak. Scott Jason Kidd, who finished with Cleveland during the offseason, than dynamic duds. No longer a Iverson went 5-for-6 for 13 Padgett scored a season-high 13 10 points on 3-for-13 shooting. 
-
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

908 SB Ave: Roomy 6-7 bdrm 3-6 bdrm homes for 06/07. Also home 4 blocks to NO. 2 baths, w/d, avail.now. 574-329-0308. WANTED FoR RENT broadband internet incl. Avail. 06-07 For rent: Two story house com-TICKETS PERSONAL 
& 07-08 school year. 327 Hill St: pletely remodeled 2003. Ready for CHRISTMAS HELP NOW! $12.25 WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED-NEED A HOME TODAY? NEED A immediate occupancy or nex1 WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do base/appt. Flexible schedules ROOM HOMES SECOND CHANCE? Very nice 3 semester or next school year. Off TOP$$ PAID. not go it alone. If you or someone around classes, customer sales & MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 bdrm home. Close to NO & Corbys. street parking includes motion sen-you love needs confidential support service, conditions apply, all ages House for rent. 3 BR, 1 BA, 2 Car Broadband internet option. WID & sor light for security. Four individu-251-1570. or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. 17 & older. Call Now! 574-273-Gar. Clay Area. $700/mo. 574-210-alarm system avail. Move in today. ally locked bedrooms, central sta-Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more 3835. 8308. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 or lion monitored security system, six FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. information, see our bi-weekly ad in 
email blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB­I Caring, organized individuals need-_ KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES JCrimmins@ myLandGrant.com in front of house, surrounded by SITE THE OBSERVER. I ed to place exchange students in FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07 other student housing, Laundromat FOR$$:
i. I 
local schools and host families. SCHOOL YEAR. CLOSE TO CAM-HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 nex1 door, basement available for Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 I Earn a per-student stipend and pos-PUS. 4 BEDROOMS, UP TO 10 bdrms includes all utilities,local storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, Days from $299! Includes Meals, 
I 
sible travel to Europe. 888-266-BEDROOMS. CALL 315-5032 ASK phone,washer/dryer,security system. etc.,new furnace and central air, www. victory1ickets.com MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, 
I 
I 2921 or sumckeen@ie-usa.com FOR KRAMER. $400/student. 574-315-2509 ndstu-new kitchen including new stove Acapulco, Jamaica From $499! 
dentrentals.com 2006 SPRING and refrigerator, large living room BUYING & SELLING NO FOOT-Campus Reps Needed! START @$70 for a 5 hour event! GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH-SEMESTER NOW AVAILABLE. for TV or entertaining, free trash BALL TIX. PromoCode:31 www.springbreak-Responsible for promoting brands, BORHOODS 06/07 & 07/08 removal. travel.com distributing samples/brochures & andersonNDrentals.com 574-233-Closest house to campus. 2-min. Call 289-4071 . demonstrating products to con-9947 walk to library. Fully furnished,new CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911. 1-800-678-6386 sumers. Part-time & weekends 4-6 carpet & appliances. 2-car garage. Stop overpaying for rent. Visit hours. Apply at www.eventsandpro-123 NO Ave. 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath. Call Avail Now. Just bring clothes. John BlueGoldrentals.com Money schemes. motions.com 574-229-0149. 949-456-0343. $895. 



OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, November 16, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 19 
Men's Basketball AP Top 25 
tt•am  points  
1  Duke  1788  
2  Texas  1661  
3  Connecticut  1603  
4  Michigan State  1589  
5  Villanova  1415  
6  Oklahoma  1391  
7  louisville  1284  
8  Kentucky  1270  
9  Gonzaga  1266  
10  Arizona  1219  
11  Boston College  1099  
12  Memphis  916  
13  Stanford  858  
14  West VIrginia  702  
15  Alabama  666  
16  Syracuse  612  
17  Illinois  565  
18  UCLA  524  
19  Wake Forest  509  
20  Iowa  401  
21  GWU  296  
22  Nevada  281  
23  Indiana  253  
24  Maryland  252  
25  Iowa State  232  

Women's Basketball Top 25 
tuam points 
1 Duke 1107 2 Tennessee 1102 3 LSU 1025 4 Ohio State 997 5 Rutgers 881 6 Baylor 874 7 North Carolina 863 8 Georgia 853 9 Connecticut 802 10 Michigan State 727 11 Stanford 675 12 Texas 644 13 Texas Tech 601 14 Maryland 598 15 NOTRE DAME 408 16 Minnesota 344 17 Vanderbilt 341 18 DePaul 335 19 Purdue 297 20 Arizona State 271 21 Temple 215 22 Utah 199 23 North Carolina State 192 24 usc 168 25 Oklahoma 143 
Women's Soccer Top 25 
team 
Penn State Portland North Carolina UCLA NOTRE DAME Florida State Santa Clara VIrginia California Texas A&M Marquette Duke Boston College BYU Connecticut Tennessee Cal State Fullerton Florida 
record 
19·0·0 17-0·1 17-1-0 15-1-2 11·2·0 16·2-0 14-3-2 13-4·1 12-3·2 13·3·2 17-2-1 12-4-1 11-4-2 15-1-3 14-3·2 12-5-1 15·3·0 13-4·1 
Prell. 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 10 9 11 12 13 8 15 14 16 18 
17 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Northern Illinois at Toledo 7:30 p.m., ESPN 2 
NBA 
New York at LA Lakers 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 
NHL Pittsburgh at Philadelphia 7:00p.m., OLN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Major leaguers will face tougher penalties for steroid use and testing for ampheta­mines next season under an agreement between owners and players reached Tuesday after months of negotiations and pressure from Congress. 
The deal, which must be ratified by both sides, includes a 50-game sus­pension for a first failed test, 100 games for a S!'JC· ond and a lifetime ban for a third. 
"I don't regard this as an interim step, I regard this as the completion of a long process," baseball com­missioner Bud Selig said. 

Baseball's current steroid penalties are a 10­day suspension for a first offense, 30 days for a sec­ond offense and 60 days for a third. The earliest a player could be banned for life is a fifth offense. 
Selig rejected calls by some -including law­makers -that baseball adopt the policy of Olympic sports, where a first positive test results in a two-year ban and a sec­ond in a lifetime suspen­sion. 
Several bills that would increase steroid penalties in major U.S. pro sports are pending in Congress. But Tuesday's news "stops the rush to move legisla­tion through at this time," said Rep. Tom Davis, whose llouse Government Reform Committee held the March 17 hearing on steroids with Rafael Palmeiro, Mark McGwire and Jose Canseco. 
At that hearing, Selig and union head Donald Fehr were scolded for what congressmen called a weak penalty system. The next month, Selig made a 50-tOO-lifetime proposal and suggested testing for amphetamines for the first time. In September, Fehr countered with 20 games, 75 games and, for a third offense, a penalty set by the commissioner. 
The players' association appeared to pretty much capitulate to Selig's demands from April, except for gaining the right to have an arbitrator review reinstatement deci­sions. 
"This agreement reaf­firms that major league players are committed to the elimination of per­formance-enhancing sub­stances," Fehr said in a statement. 
IN BRIEF CFL Player tests positive for 
HIV after alleged assault 
TORONTO -Police disclosed that a Canadian Football League player is IllY positive after he was charged with sexual assault, saying they thought a public health warning about his health was necessary. 
Linebacker Trevis Smith of the Saskatchewan Houghriders and for­merly of the University of Alabama was arrested Oct. 28 in Hegina, Saskatchewan, and charged with aggravated sexual assault. Smith denies the charges and will plead not guilty, said his lawyer, Paul llarasen. 
lie was frned on bail and ordered by a judge Nov. 2 to practice sale sex, tell all future partners he's l-IlY positive and surrender his passport. 
The ease has raised questions over privacy in the workplacn, fears some players might have about playing against an lilY-positive opponent and an nmployer's responsibly for protect­ing the public. 
The Canadian Public Health 

Association is offering information packets to all nine CFL teams to help educate players and management about HIY and AIDS. Busch alcohol test shows 
driver was under legal limit 
PHOENIX -Nextel Cup champion driver Kurt Busch had a 0.017 blood­alcohol level on a preliminary sobriety test, far below the state's impairment limit, Maricopa County sherill"s ollice said Tuesday. 
Busch was detained Friday on sus­picion of drunken driving and cited for reckless driving after a confronta­tion with Maricopa County deputies. IIn was suspended by Roush Hacing lor the rest of the season. 
Maricopa County sheriff's spokesman Lt. Paul Chagolla said the preliminary test is not admissible in court, but is designed to help indicate the presence of alcohol. The legal limit in Arizona is 0.08. 
Chagolla said deputies tried to administer an oflicial alcohol breath test but the machine malfunctioned. 
None of the six signs that would indi­cate impairment during another test were present either. 
Busch was issued a criminal trallic citation for reckless driving. All-Star Federov traded to Blue Jackets 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -The Columbus Blue Jackets acquired six-time All­Star center Sergei Fedorov on Tuesday from the Anaheim Mighty Dw~ks for forward Tyler Wright. rook­ie defenseman Franeois Beaudwmin and a fifth-round pick in 2006. 
Thn 35-year-old Fndorov had one assist in live games this season for Anaheim, his second with the Mighty Ducks after 1:~ seasons with Detroit. lie recently returned from a groin injury that sidelined him for 13 games. 
Columbus general managnr and president Doug MacLean had been sorting through trades for the past few weeks, but said he was unwilling to part with any of the Blue Jackets' young talent. 
Wednesday, November 16, 2005 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Kansas State football coach Synder retires 


Wildcats are not bowl eligible for the second time in two seasons 
Associated Press 

MANHATTAN, Kan.-Saying he wanted to spend more time with his family, Bill Snyder retired Tuesday from the Kansas State program he coached from college football's depths to a spot among the nation's elite. 
The 66-year-old Snyder, Kansas State's coach since 1989, said health was not a factor. 
"As far as I know, my doctor has not complained -well, he's complained about some of my habits," Snyder said. "But to my knowledge, I'm physical­ly fine." 

Athletic director Tim Weiser said no timetable had been set for choosing Snyder's succes­sor. Snyder, who signed a six­year contract extension in 2001, will remain under con­tract as the football coach until his successor is hired. 
After that, he will stay on as a special assistant to Weiser, the school said. 
With Kansas State failing to qualify for a bowl for a second straight year, Snyder's final game will be Saturday against Missouri. The stadium will be renamed Bill Snyder Family Stadium, the university said. 
"Family" was a common theme during Snyder's news conference, with the coach repeatedly fighting back tears almost every time he said that word. 
And although Snyder's health might not be at issue, he talked several times about the toll his schedule -long hours spent at the office, breaking down film and preparfng game plans from the predawn dark to late at night -has taken on his 


I I I 
I. 
~ 

I I 
DUTPDST 
~ 
Cold Weather Experts 
family life. 
"I've not been the kind of father that I should have been, and the kind of husband," said Snyder, who has five children and eight grandchildren. 
When Snyder took over the Wildcats' program, Kansas State was the only major col­lege team with 500 losses. 
He is 135-68-1 in Manhattan, including a run of 11 straight bowl games that began with the 1993 season. But after win­ning the Big 12 championship in 2003, Kansas State has stumbled to two straight losing seasons. 
Kansas State, (4-6, 1-6 Big 
12) has failed to qualify for a bowl game for the second straight year, the first time since 1991 and 1992 that Kansas State missed bowl games in consecutive seasons. 
Snyder went 1-10 in his first season, but his team steadily improved. In 1993, the Wildcats appeared in a bowl game for the second time in school history, defeating Wyoming in the Copper Bowl. 
By the late 1990s, with Michael Bishop at quarterback, they were a national champi­onship contender. 
Snyder had his team on the brink of playing for a national title in 1998 before Texas A&M upset the previously undefeat­ed Wildcats in the Big 12 championship game. Kansas State then opened 9-0 the fol­lowing season before being routed at Nebraska in 1999. 
Stepping away after a suc­cessful season would have made things harder on his suc­cessor, Snyder said Tuesday. But with 18 starters scheduled to return next year -although some of them could transfer­Snyder said he is leaving the next coach in a better situation than the one he inherited in 1989. 
"Some of the glow is off the program," he said. 
NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick fleece coat is perfect for winter. Ask any yak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 

Hours: Mon. -Fri.: 1o:oo am -9:00 pmSat: 1o:oo am -B:oo pm Sun.: 12:00 pm -6:oo pm 
MLB 

Maddon introduced in Tampa 
Associated Press 

ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. ­No one had to sell Joe Maddon on the potential of the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. 
.A computer whiz who uses modern technology to ana­lyze statistics and break down other aspects of base­ball, Maddon showed up for an interview for the team's vacant managerial position with a stack of information on the club's promising nucleus of young talent. 
"He had a thick binder," executive vice president of baseball operations Andrew Friedman marveled. "He's just extremely prepared." 
Maddon was introduced Tuesday as the fourth man­ager in Devil Rays history, ending a six-week search for Lou Piniella's replacement. The longtime Los Angeles Angels bench coach signed a two-year contract that includes club options for the 2008 and 2009 seasons. 
The new skipper takes over a team that's finished last in the team and promoting the 29-year-old Friedman to run baseball operations. 
"The nucleus we have is great," Maddon said, adding that 
seven of the franchise's eight seasons  "/ like the way this organization is  the Devil Rays' core of exciting young players  
and never won  coming together.,,  reminds him of  
more  than 70  the type of per­ 
games. The Devil Rays have  Joe Maddon  sonnel that helped transform  
the lowest pay­ Devil Rays manager  the  Angels,  
roll  in  the  Cleveland Indians  
majors,  but  and  Minnesota  

Maddon envisions a bright Twins into winners in recent future. years. 
"I like the way this organi­Maddon, 51, served as zation is coming together," Angels bench coach for 10 Maddon said, alluding to off­seasons, the past six under season moves that include manager Mike Sciascia. The new principal owner Stuart team reached the playoffs Sternberg taking control of three of the past four years 
UNITED 
and  won  the  2002  World  
Series.  
The  Devil  Rays  were  

attracted to his enthusiasm and background in player development, as well as the experience Maddon gained in numerous jobs he held dur­ing 31 years in the Angels organization. 
"From the beginning, we felt our ideal candidate would have infectious energy and optimism, strong com­munication skills, extensive player development back­ground and willingness to embrace new ideas," Friedman said. 
"He is a teacher, a leader and a strong communicator. ... He understands what it takes for a team to be suc­cessful." 

For Pakistan Earthquake Relief 
Why your contribution is essential? 
Devastation increased by inaccessible terrain, harsh winter 
temperatures dropping to -54 F (-12 C), and less than 30% relief 
funding raised ....... YOU CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE! 
General population The Children 4 million affected 1.6-2.2 million children affected 75,600 killed 37,000 killed 3 million displaced/homeless 20,000 physically impaired 80% of structures destroyed 
TONIGHT Fundraising Dinner 
featuring Indian food 6 pm, Wednesday, Nov. 16, LaFortune Ballroom $7 donation 
Presented by India Association of Notre Dame, Pakistan Student Association & lnt'l Student Services and Activities. 
ND relief effort sponsored by: Pakistan Student Association, India Association, Student Gov't, Campus Ministry, Center for Social Concerns. Political Science & lnt'l Student Services and Activities. 
Donations will be forwarded to Catholic Relief Services. 
Wednesday, November 16, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
McNabb unlikely to play against Giants 
Philadelphia quarterback injured his groin in Monday night's 21-20 loss to Dallas 
Associated Press 
I' I III.ADI\LI'IIIA -Donovan McNabb has a bruised ngo to matd1 his hatterml body. 
McNabb is unlikely to play in l'hiladnlphia's game against the Nnw York Ciants on Sunday bnc:ausn of a groin injury. His psydw is feeling worse after his int()rcnption cost the Eagles a c:rudal victory against Dallas on Monday night. 
"I In takes a lot of responsibili­ty on his shoulders and he was dnvastatml by the loss," coach Andy Hnid said Tuesday. 
McNabb rn-injured his groin while trying to tackle Cowboys safety Hoy Williams after he misrnad thn coverage and thrnw an intnrc:nption. Williams rnturnml tlw pick 46 yards for a touchdown with 2:43 left to lead I >alias to a 21-20 comnback vie­tory ovnr thn Eagles. 
Hnid said McNabb had an MHI on Ttwsday morning, and was waiting to see a specialist. II' McNabb donsn't play, Mikn M(:Mahon probably would start ovnr Koy Detmer against tho c;iants. 
"I wouldn't bnt on it," Heid said of McNabb's chances to play. "lin doesn't look good today." 
While McNabb is hurting physically, he and the team are dnaling with the agony of a tough loss that dealt a severe blow to tlwir playoff hopes. The reigning conference champions (4-5) have lost three straight and are last in the NFC East. They'rn 0-3 in the division and 1-4 in conference games. 
ECDC ANNUAL BOOK FAIR 
When: Nov. 14-18 &21, 2005, 8:00 a.m.-5:15p.m. Where: ECDC-ND and ECDC-SMC (ECDC-ND is located on Bulla Road across from O'Hara Grace Residences, ECDC-SMC is located in Havican Hall on the Saint Mary's Campus) What: Scholastic Book Fair with a wide selection of quality children's books for preschoolers through upper elementary grades, including chapter books. Cookbooks and other books great for families are also available for purchase. How: Come and check out the wide selection of quality books available. Pay by cash, check or credit card. Why: SUPPORT ECDCI Great holiday gifts. All funds raised will go towards the purchase of educational materials for ECDC. 


\,, il 
··~ 
"I take the blame for every loss," McNabb said. "I don't point the finger at any time. I takn the blame for all losses." 
Perhaps the mobile McMahon could spark the offense. lie nearly led Philadelphia to the winning score after eoming in for the last series against Dallas. McMahon, listed as the third-string quarterback, drove the Eagles to the Cowboys 42 before David Akers missed a 60-yard field goal attempt in tho final soeonds. 
"lie handled that situation nice. That's about as tough a situation you can be put in," Heid said. 
In four seasons with Detroit, McMahon started' seven games. lie had a 43.S completion per­centage with 10 touchdown passes and 13 interceptions, but he ran for 273 yards on 46 car­ries. 
Detmer has been MeNabb's backup the last six seasons. lie is the No. 2 quarterback this year only because he holds the ball on extra points and field goals. 
"You never know what's going to happen," McMahon said. "So, you've just got to be ready at all times whenever that opportuni­ty comes." 
McNabb has played through several injuries this season, including a sports hernia that will require surgery. He walked gingerly to the podium at his postgame news conference and grimaced with every step. 
Heid said McNabb is "sore more in the groin area than in the abdominal area." The five-time Pro Bowl selection clearly isn't the same quarterback he's been. 


McNabb has thrown a costly interception in each of the last three games, and has nine picks this season. He threw eight inten~eptions last year when he became the first player in NFL history to throw more than 30 touchdown passes (31) and fewer than 10 interceptions. 
In a 49-21 loss at Denver on Oct. 30, the Eagles rallied from a 28-0 deficit and were within 24 yards of scoring the tying TD early in the fourth quarter. 
McNabb had running back Lamar Gordon wide open on a third-and-5, but went for Reggie Brown in the end zone instead and was picked off by rookie Domonique Foxworth. The Broncos then put the game away with 21 straight points. 
In a 17-10 loss at Washington last week, McNabb drove the Eagles to the Redskins 7 in the final minutes only to throw an interception on a fourth-and-4 with 1:25 remaining. 
''I'm just trying to make a play. You have the confidence you can get it in there, so you try to get it in there," McNabb said. "As a quarterback, you can't be tentative. You can't sit back and hold the ball. You've got to give your receivers an opportunity to compete and make a play for you. That's what I've been doing. I've bnen doing it the last couple of years. Some balls have gotten inter­cepted. It's going to happen as a quarterback. All quarterbacks go through it." 
McNabb's troubles this season started ofl' the field with tho tur­moil between him and Terrell Owens. The All-Pro wideout was suspended before the loss to Washington, and was told not to return to the team last week. 
McNabb, who feuded with Owens throughout the summer, put himself on the spot by say­ing the team was "better orr· without its top playmaker. He refused to answer questions about Owens after the loss to Dallas. 
ThankYou Baby 
www.montecristorecords.com/dvds.html 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, November 16, 2005 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Thues satisfied with decision to leave job 
New Mexico State coach worked under Rick Pitino last year 
Associated Press 
LAS CRUCES, N.M. ~Reggie Theus' office consists of two remodeled dorm rooms. His New Mexico State players are practicing in an auxiliary gym that's too small, and the coach still hasn't acquired a taste for chili. 
So is Rick Pitino's former assistant having second thoughts about his decision to trade Louisville's blue grass scenery for the sagebrush and sand in this southern New Mexico college town? 
Not a chance. 
"I see this as a diamond," the first-year Aggies coach said. "It may not be the mar­quis diamond that they have at Louisville and North Carolina, but it's still a diamond and it will still cut glass." 
That diamond currently has some rough edges. The Aggies had to use Rentfrow Gymnasium for most of their preseason practices while a $23 million renovation of the Pan American Center was being completed. The problem is Rentfrow's floor measures 84 feet long, 10 feet shorter than regulation. 
The renovation of the Pan American Center also forced Theus and his staff to relocate to dorm rooms. 
The Aggies, who open the season Tuesday night at UCLA in the preseason NIT, are hop­ing Theus can do what Lou Henson accomplished 40 years ago: take the Aggies from obscurity to national promi­nence. 
Henson took over a New Mexico State program that fin­ished 4-22 in 1965-66 and turned it into an overnight success. The Aggies went 15­11 in Henson's first season and earned the first of five straight NCAA tournament bids, including a trip to the Final Four in 1970. 
The Aggies, under Neil McCarthy, played in five straight NCAA tournaments in the '90s. Henson, who returned to NMSU after McCarthy was fired just before the start of the 1997-98 sea­son, led the Aggies to a 23-10 record and an NCAA bid in 1999, but the school hasn't been back to the tournament since. 
Unable to coach last year because of health problems, Henson retired in January without coaching a single game and the Aggies finished 6-24 under interim coach Tony Stubblefield. 
Theus, who spent 13 seasons in the NBA but has never coached at the Division I level, was hired in March after spending two seasons on Pitino's staff. Theus may be short on major college coach­ing experience, but not on confidence. 
"At this point, no way can I coach like Coach Pitino, but I can teach the game like Coach Pitino," Theus said. "I can teach what I did as an NBA player. The learning curve for me as a coach, because of my background, may be a very small one." 
llaving players like former St. John's guard Elijah Ingram and former Pepperdine guard Shaun Davis should help. 
Ingram sat out last season after leaving St. John's in the midst-of a strip club scandal that rocked the program in 2004. Ingram and five team­mates broke curfew after a loss at Pittsburgh on Fe'h. 4, 2004, and a 38-year-old woman told police she had been raped by St. John's play­ers she met at a strip club. 
No criminal charges were filed against the players and according to court documents, the woman later told police she had made up the story after the players refused to pay her $1,000 for sex. 
Ingram, a former McDonald's All American at New Jersey's.St. Anthony's High School, was averaging a team-high 13.3 points a game for St. John's when he left. He said he's adjusted to the move to New Mexico State and is looking forward to playing for Theus. 
"Sitting out last year was tough, especially the way the season went," Ingram said. "This year I have a lot of moti­vation. I'm anxious to play for Coach Theus." 
Davis played his freshman season at Pepperdine and averaged 8 points a game. He spent last season at the College of Southern Idaho, where he averaged just under 10 points a game. 
Four players who trans­
NFL 

Big Ben may not play Sunday 
Roethlisberger listed as questionable for game with Baltimore 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH -What does­n't look questionable about the Pittsburgh Steelers' injury-com­plicated quarterback situation is coach Bill Cowher's decision to keep not one, but two proven backups behind Ben Roethlisberger. 
Cowher said Tuesday he won't know until later in the week whether Roethlisberger can play in Sunday's game at Baltimore. Roethlisberger, who is listed as questionable, has missed two games since having knee surgery Nov. 3. 
If he can't play -and the Steelers are hopeful he can ­then Tommy Maddox will be their third starting QB in four games. 
"There is no defined starter right now," Cowher .said. 
Charlie Batch started and won the last two games in his first extended playing time in four years, but will sit out at least one game after breaking a bone in his right hand during a 34-21 victory over Cleveland on Sunday night. Batch played about as well as a backup can during the firs.t half, completing 13 of 19 passes for 150 yards and breaking off a 15-yard run. 
The Steelers want Roethlisberger to play against the Ravens (2-7) not only because he gives them the best chance of winning, but so he can get back to game speed before pivotal games against the Indianapolis Colts (9-0) on Nov. 28 and division rival Cincinnati (7 -2) on Dec. 4. Roethlisberger hasn't played since a 20-19 victory over Baltimore on Oct. 31, undergo­ing arthroscopic surgery to clean up damaged cartilage in his right knee three days later. 


The Steelers won't rush him back and possibly jeopardize his status for the final six weeks of the season. 
Roethlisberger underwent therapy and threw some passes Tuesday, normally the players' day off. But Cowher wants to see if he can throw passes with­out being in pain and has full range of motion in his right knee. The team starts practic­ing for the Ravens on Wednesday. 
ferred to New Mexico State this summer and are sitting out this season should help make the Aggies a formidable bunch in 2006-07. They are former Utah forward Justin Hawkins, 7 -foot center Iti Martin from UNC-Charlotte, former Kansas State guard Fred Peete and former Northern Colorado forward Trei Steward. 
Theus left the NBA in 1993, then spent a decade as a TV sports commentator and bas­ketball analyst. He also did some acting. He sees his latest career move as a chance to "reinvent" himself and the New Mexico State program. 
"You don't go to a job that doesn't have any history," he said. "The fact that they've won big here before, the fact the fans have historically been some of the best in the coun­try, that there is basketball mania here. It once was and can be again." 
Theus grew up in South Central Los Angeles and played his collegiate ball at UNLV. His NBA career includ­ed stops in Atlanta, New Jersey, Kansas City, Chicago, Orlando and Sacramento. Adjusting to little Las Cruces, he says, has been no problem. 
"Las Cruces has exactly the kind of things I love to do," Theus said. "It's an outdoors place. It's got mountains, it's got desert. It's a hiker's haven. There's a lot of hunting and fishing around here." 
There's also plenty of chili, the hot stuff that's a staple of New Mexican cuisine. Theus is still working on that. 
''I'm not a hot foods guy," he said. 

Tuesd<ly, November 8 through Sund<ly, November 20 
Philbin Studio 
TheCJtre 
S8 oil students For ttcilets, coli the DPAC Ticket Office ot 631-2800 or visit http:// performlngorts.nd.edu 
I$1UNIVERSITY OF 
DEBARTOLO


~NOTRE DAME PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
"I can't give a long-term diag­nosis," Cowher said. "We'll assess it day to day." 
Linebacker James Farrior (knee), left tackle Marvel Smith (ankle) and running back Willie Parker (ankle) also are ques­tionable. Farrior, an All-Pro linebacker last season, and Parker, the team's leading rush­er, didn't play against Cleveland. 
"The good news is nobody is on injured reserve, but it seems I spend half the news confer­ence reading the injury list," said Cowher, who listed 13 players as probable or worse. "But nobody is going to feel sorry for us, and we're not going ,to feel sorry for our­selves. 
NOTRE DAME'S DEPARTMENT Of FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 



B y N 0 E l C 0 WAR D 
Wednesday, November 16, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
MLB 
Pujols beats out Jones to win NL MVP award 
Cardinals first baseman received 18 first place votes after hitting 41 home runs 
Associated Press 
NHW YOHK -Albert Pujols started his earner with four startling s1~asons, equal or bnt­tnr than tlwsn of many I Jail of Fanwrs. Only Barry Bonds always did better -until this year. 
l'ujols won his llrst National League MVP award Tuesday, boating Andruw .Jorws in a close vote that didn't indudn Bonds, who missed most. of tho season bncausn of a knnn injury. 
"A lot of tho fans and even tho players, thny missed Barry," Pujols said of the seven-time MVP, who had won the previous four seasons. "I wished he would have been healthy and played." 
Pujols, tlw St. Louis Cardinals' first baseman, rneeiw~d 18 lirst­plaee votes and 14 seconds for 378 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Assodation of America. Jones,. the Atlanta Braves' eenter fielder, got 13 firsts, 17 sneonds and two thirds for :~51 points. 
Chieago Cubs l'irst baseman Derrek Lee got the other lirst­plaen vote and was third with 263 points. 


"It's awesome when you hear people compare yourself with Barry," Pujols said. 
Pujols hit .330 with 41 homers and 117 HBis. I lis average was second, live points behind Lee, and he trailed only .Jones (51) and Lee (46) in homers. He tied for second in ·HBis with 117, 11 behind Jones. 
Jones led the major leagues in home runs, batted .263 and won his eighth straight Gold Glove. 
"I think he deserved it. The voting was the right vote. lie was the right choiee,'' Jones said. "lie had the most solid season average wise, home-run wise and HBI wise." 
Pujofs played in 161 of 162 regular-season games despite being bothered nearly the entire season by plantar faseiitis, a heel injury that he also felt in 2004. 
"Them were some times when I got out of bed, I had to sit up before l jumped out of bed because it was bothering me so bad," he said. 
The 25-year-old Pujols has put up remarkable statisties in his first live major league sea­sons, averaging 40 homers and 124 HBis to go with a .332 aver­agn. 
lie was third behind Bonds and Adrian Beltre in last year's MVP voting after f'inishing fourth as a rookie in 2001 and seeond to Bonds the following two seasons. Bonds missed most of this year with a knee injury after winning the award four straight times to increase his total MVPs to a record seven. 
The Cardinals led the majors 
2005-2006 Law&... an interdisciplinary colloquium series presents 
Biometrics and Privacy 

Presenter: Kevin Bowyer Department of Computer Science & Engineering 
Commentator: Jimmy Gurule The Law School 
ThursdavJ" Novctnber 17 4:00p.m. Law School Classroom J20 

with 100 wins this season and breezed to the Central title. Pujols was the driving force on a team that lost Scott Holen and other key players to injuries. 
Atlanta went 90-72 and won its 14th straight division cham­pionship. Jones was the only Braves player with more than 21 homers or 78 RBis. 
Pujols, who gets a $200,000 bonus, won the 15th MVP award for the Cardinals, the first since Willie McGee in 1985. 
By finishing third, Leo trig­gered a $750,000 ineroase in his next 2006 base salary to $8.75 million. 
Florida first baseman Carlos Delgado, who was sixth, earned five points toward the 30 he needs by the end of 2008 to guarantee a $16 million salary in 2009. He would get 10 points for winning the MVP, 20 if he is a World Series MVP and 10 if he is a league championship series MVP. 
Yankees, Matsui reach prefuninary agreelllent 
GM Cashman declines comment; baseball official confirms deal 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK llidcki Matsui and the Yankees reached a preliminary agrnn­ment Tuesday night on a $52 million, four-year eontraet that will keep tho popular outJinldnr in New York. 
Matsui's agnnt, Arn Tnllnm, and Yankees general manag­nr Brian Cashman mot t.hn Nov. 15 deadline contairwd in Matsui's first contrad with thn tnam. That dna! stated that if' thnn~ was no agnw­m e n t b y t h n n • N ~~ w Yo r k would have to plaen thn out­fielder on uneondiiional release waivers, whieh means the Yankees eould not havn re-signed him until May 15. 
The deal was eonf'irmnd by a baseball ol'f'ieial speaking on eondition of anonymity beeausn an announecmnnt had not yet bonn made. There worn still a l'nw minor issues romaining, sueh as finalizing the payout sched­ule over thn f'our years, tho official said. 
Matsui is eoming ofT a $21 million, thren-ynar eontraet in whieh lw nanwd an addi­tional $1.5 million in pnr­f'ormanees bonuses. 
A three-limn MVI' in Japan's Central l.eagtw with the Yomiuri Giants, Matsui has hnnn one of' thn Yank1H~S morn produdiv1~ hittnrs. lin batted .:w:; with 2:l honwrs and II f1 HBis last season. 
;\f'tnr agrnning to a nnw contract to stay on as gPnnral nwnagnr, Cashman said that re-signing Matsui was his first priority. 
In other Yankens rwws, Nnw York exnreisnd its $1.5 mil­lion option on rolievnr Tanyon Sturtzn rather than paying a $150,000 buyout.. The :~5-ynar-old right-hander was 5-:~ with a 4. 7:{ 1\B;\ and onn save in one start and £1:~ relinf' appnaranens. 

--~~--~~~~~---~~~~~--~~~--------------------------------------, 
page 24 
Babin 
continued from page 28 
es are to top-1 0 squads Michigan, Colorado College and Denver. 
The sweep of Bowling Green, the first time in two seasons that Notre Dame has swept a two-game series, evened the Irish's CCHA record at 2-2-0. 
Babin, who hails from Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., is one of only two players in Division 1 
hockey from  the  sunshine  
state.  
"[Hockey)  was  a  bad acci­ 

dent by my dad," Babin said. "lie bought me a little roller hockey set for my birthday and it kind of spawned from there." 
Babin started playing for the Florida Select travel team. At a tournament in Michigan when he was 14, scouts from the Compuware Ambassadors, a Junior A-level team in the North American Hockey League, asked him to play for Ann Arbor, Mich. This was another major change for the then 17 -year-old Babin. 

"[Hockey] was a bad

their team. That necessitated a accident by my dad. major life 
He bought me a little 

change. 
roller hockey set for

"I moved to Michigan when I my birthday and it 
mom," Babin 
there."

said. "Me and her lived there for two years." Noah Babin 
Later on, 
Irish defender 

Babin tried out for the United 
"I moved out on my own and lived with another family while I played for the U.S. pro­gram, then another junior team, then I came [to Notre Dame]," he said. 
Babin said that, like most young hockey players, he wouldn't trade 

States National Development his unorthodox high school program, which is located in years for anything. 
The Observer + SPORTS 
"It's a whole different way to go through life," Babin said. "When I was with the U.S. program we were all living with different families. Mine was great, I could have lived with them forever. We got to go to school every single day with the entire team. 
"Plus we got to see the world. We got to go . to Germany, Russia, and Switzerland." 
Babin and the Irish will travel to Miami of Ohio for games Friday and Saturday at 7:35p.m. each night. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Wednesday, November 16, 2005 
MLB 

Dodgers hire former Giants assistant GM 
Los Angeles does not protnote Kim Ng to make league history 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -The Los Angeles Dodgers hired Ned Colletti as their general man­ager Tuesday to replace the fired Paul DePodesta. 
Colletti has been an assis­tant GM with the rival San Francisco Giants since 1997. He beat out Dodgers assistant general manager Kim Ng, who was trying to become the first woman in major league history to be hired as a GM. 
The Dodgers called a news conference for Wednesday to introduce Colletti in his new job. 
Ng and Colletti were thought to be the only candi­dates to interview for the job. Former Texas Rangers and Cleveland Indians GM John Hart withdrew Monday as a candidate. 
Dodgers spokeswoman Camille Johnston confirmed the hiring of Colletti, who has served under Giants general manager Brian Sabean for the past nine years. 
The 50-year-old Colletti is considered a good negotiator and communicator, attributes owner Frank McCourt said he wanted in a GM after firing DePodesta on Oct. 29. 
DePodesta was let go after less than two years on the job. He succeeded Dan Evans and signed a five-year con­tract in February 2004, short­ly after McCourt purchased the team from News Corp. 
The Dodgers are the only team in the majors without a manager. McCourt said at the time of DePodesta's firing that the search to replace Jim Tracy would be on hold until after a GM was picked. 
Tracy and the team parted ways in October, and he was hired to manage the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
The Dodgers went 71-91 last season, their worst record since 1992 and sec­ond-poorest since the fran­chise moved from Brooklyn to Los Angeles in 1958. They won the NL West champi­onship in 2004 with a 93-69 record. 
Colletti, who began his career in public relations for the Chicago Cubs in 1982, eventually became involved in the baseball operations side of the business. He represent­ed the Cubs in arbitration hearings and negotiated con­tracts. 


1""'"-------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, November 16, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Cuse 
continued from page 28 
down now." They're going to come in hnrn trying to beat us." 
Notre Dame's first two home games wnre losses to Michigan State, a 44-41 over­time defeat, and to Southern Cal in a 34-:~ I last-sncond hnartbreaker. The scores were close and the Irish had chances to win both games, but the team didn't pull it out at home early on in the sea~ son. 
Weis blames himself' for causing the lone 'distraction' of' playing home. 
"The only distraction that was created was really my fault to be honest with you," Weis said. "Way back early in the year when we lost to Mid1igan State, not that we didn't deserve to lose, but that was thn head coach's fault." 
Whatever distraction rnmains at Notre Dame Stadium after Saturday will be inconsequential, since the only game remaining on the Irish slate will be a Nov. 26 date with Stanford in 
NFL 

California. 
Notre Dame may be looking forward to a climate change, anyway. Current weather forecasts call for rain during Saturday's game and a low of 32 degrees. 

Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Giants co-o-wner Robert Tisch dies of brain cancer at 79 
New York deals with the loss of another fixture in the community just three weeks after Wellington Mara's death 
Associated Press 
NI·:W YOHK -Hobert Tiseh, eo-owner of thn New York c;iants and a civic leader in Nnw York City for several 
decades, died Tuesday of brain cancer. He was 79. Tisch died at his home, a family publicist said. Three weeks ago on Oct. 25, the Giants' other co-owner. 

Wellington Mara, also died of cancer. Wellington Mara was the son of team founder Timothy J. Mara. 
Tisch bought 50 percent of the Giants in 1991 from Tim 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CHORALE 
& 
CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 


9:00p.m. • Friday, November 18, 2005 
LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL DERARTOLO'CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS 
f'ICKETS $10/$8/$6/$3

MARIE P. DEBARTOLO UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE [lAME 
CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS Pl·lONE 574-631-2800 DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Richardson reportedly gives verbal to Irish 
Senior from Atlanta impressed scouts with speed and hard hits 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Notre Dame picked up its 20th recruit for the class of 2010 Tuesday when linebacker Morrice Hichard-son verbally committed to the 

play linebacker f'or Notre Damn. 
"lie can run pretty well," Mike Frank of Irishcyes.com said in Tuesday's edition of The Observer. "lie loves to hit and loves to punish people." 
Hichardson picked Notre Dame over Georgia Tech. 
He is the lirst linebacker to commit to Notre Dame and the eighth defensive player. lie joined tight end Konrad Heuland as the only two players making onicial visits to eampus 
this past weekend 

Irish, according to for Notre Dame's
"[Richardson/loves
Irisheyes.com. 42-21 win over 
to hit and loves to
The Observer Navy. could not reach punish people. " Hichardson's Hichardson for commitment can­comment Tuesday not be finalized
Mike Frank
night. until February,
lrisheyes.com
Hichardson, a 6-when official let­
foot-3, 235-pound prospect from Westlake High School in Atlanta, was being recruited by some schools at defensive end but will probably 
ters of intent can 

be signed. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
Mara, Wellington Mara's the 14 years he's had the priv­nephew, not long after the ilege of owning this team, it's Giants beat Buffalo in the been tiHl greatest girt for him, Super Bowl. professionally and personally." 
He also was U.S. postmaster A native of New York. Hobert general from 1986-88 and Tisch was involved in numer­chairman and director of ous civic organizations in tho Loews Corp., a company he city. and his late brother, Laurence lle served as the chairman Tisch, had purchased in 1959 of the New York Convnntion 
when it  was  a  and  Visitors  
movie  theater  Bureau  for  19  
chain. The com­pany changed its name from  "For the 14 years he's had the privilege  years and was chairman of the Citizens  
Loews Theaters in 1971 and cur­rently owns and operates Loews Hotels, the  ofowning this team, it's been the greatest gift for him, professionally and  Committee for the Dnmoeratic national conven­tions held in New York in  
Lori liard Tobacco Co. and  personally. "  1976 and liJSO. Mayor David  
97 percent of' Bulova Corp.,  Steve Tisch  Dinkins in 19SO appointed Tisch  
among  other  son of Robert Tisch  the  city's  

interests. 
Tisch was diagnosed with an inoperable brain tumor in 2004 and had curtailed his regular visits to Giants practices and games. 
During his illness, his son. Steve Tisch, was named the Giants executive vice presi­dent and took on a larger role in the operations of the team, particularly in the negotia­tions between the Giants and the state of New Jersey over a new stadium at the Meadowlands sports complex. 
The Giants wni continue to be co-owned by the Tiseh and Mara families. 
Steve Tisch and brother Jonathan Tisch, the Giants' treasur"er, addressed the team after practice on Saturday, the day before the Giants lost to the Minnesota Vikings at the Meadowlands. 
"I wanted to express to the players, the coaches and real­ly the whole staff what being involved with the New York Giants has meant to my father," Steve Tisch said. "For 
ambassador to 

Washington, a post he hold through 1993. lie also was chairman of the Nnw York Chambor of' Commerce and Industry from 1990 to 1993. 
Football was his love, his family said. 
"It gavn him so much pleas­ure and so much pride," Steve Tisch said. "Sunday al'ter Sunday aftllr Sunday, this is what he lived and loved." 
Among the charitable organ­izations Hobert Tisch helped found was Take thn Field, a nonprolit corporation that has raised more than $130 million to renovate and rebuild publie school athletic facilities in New York. 
Born Preston Hobert Tisch on April 29. 1926, he attended Bucknell University and, after serving in the military in World War II, earMd a bache­lor's degree in economics from the University of Michigan. 
He is survived by his wife, Joan Tisch, and three chil­dren. 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, November 16, 2005 
Four 
continued from page 28 
been a central factor in Notre Dame's success this year. 
"The past few years the freshman classes have been able to have an immediate impact on our team and our 
sprinter who has already qual­ified for the 2008 Olympic Trials in the 200-yard breas­troke. LeBlanc is a mid-dis­tance freestyler who has quali­fied for the Olymprc Trials in the 200-yard butterfly. 
The other swimmers who have signed letters of intent are Bobby Navarre, a freestyle sprinter from Loyola Academy in Wilmete, Ill. and John Lytle of 

success so getting a solid incoming class is vital to our success," Brown said. "I think it's a testament to [head] coach [Tim] Welsh and assis­tant coach Matt Tallman for really working hard and getting quality, Notre Dame guys who want to take 
'The past few years the freshman classes have been able to have an immediate impact on our team." 
Ted Brown Irish junior 
Clearfield High School in Clearfield, Penn., who also specializes in short­distance freestyle events. 
"[Lytle is] anoth­er sprint specialist and, with his times, he and Bobby should both, in their respective states, contend for state 

the swim team to the next level." 
Headlining the class of 2010 are Tyler Angelo of Las Lomas High School in Walnut Creek, Calif. and McKenzie LeBlanc of Plano East High School in Plano, Texas. Angelo is a 
Quinn 
continued from page 28 
herself unable to permanently resist the attraction of Notre Dame. 
"Even at Minnesota, I still thought about Notre Dame a lot," said Quinn. "It wasn't until coach [Carrie] Nixon got hired as head coach, though, that I really got interested. I was 
with her new coach, and Nixon has equal reason to be content with her newest transfer. 
Quinn helped the 200-meter medley relay team to a victory against Minnesota and won the 200-meter breast stroke with a time of 2:18.17. 
In addition, Quinn has formed a lethal combination in the 200-meter breast stroke with fellow junior Jessica Stephens, as they have accounted for first and second place in the 200-meter breast stroke in each of the last three meets for the Irish. 
"Julia is a very talented ath­lete and a very hard worker," Nixon said. "She has gotten better and she's going to con-

Write Sports. Call 1-4543 .. 
championships this year," Tallman said. 
In addition to grabbing points in individual events, the sprint­er-heavy class will help the Irish improve its team relays. 
"One of our biggest things we've talked about the last 

looking for a "Even at Dame." coach with ener­Minnesota, I still The Irish are 
gy and a coach reaping the bene­
thought about 

that would be fits of having as able to relate to Notre Dame a lot. " talented a swim-athletes, and mer as Quinn on coach Nixon has board.
Julia Quinn 

all that." "Since she has
Irish junior 
Quinn is happy been on different 
tinuetodoso." · 
While Quinn said she made the right decision in transfer­ring to Notre Dame, she describes her experience at Minnesota as beneficial in helping her advance to where she is today. 
"My experience at Minnesota was integral to who I am today," Quinn said. "Swimming under the coaches there gave me a different perspective, and it has been something that I've built upon since I got to Notre 
teams, she has a 
unique maturity and perspective," Nixon said. "She took her experience from Minnesota here with her, and it is helping both her and our team. We are very fortunate she decided to look our way." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

couple of seasons is bringing decided to fully fund all of its in top sprinters because we sports teams, that the men's 
have  great  dis- swimming  team  
tance guys," Tallman said. "But  "We've brought in a  had its full allot­ment of scholar­ 
distance  swim­ class that's a little  ships. Since then,  
mers  usually  better than the  the  Irish  have  
aren't that great for relays because they don't have to  class we lose every year, and that's  recruited better with the ability to attract more top  
swim as long.  been our main  swimmers  with  
"We've had some success with  focus."  scholarships. "We've brought  
our  guys  ...  but  in a class that's a  
trying  to  get  a  Matt Tallman  little better than  
relay to the NCAA  assistant coach  the class we lose  
level  will  be  every  year,  and  
another giant step  that's  been  our  

to getting national recogni­main focus," Tallman said. "We tion." plan on bringing in a better It wasn't until December class each year, and there's luck 2002, when the University involved, but we've been getting 
more recognition around the country and as that's improved so has our recruit interest." 
Since Notre Dame will lose 10 seniors to graduation next year, the class of 2010 will include more than just four swimmers, but NCAA restrictions prevent coaches from discussing unsigned prospects until they receive a letter of acceptance and make a deposit to the school. 
"We certainly anticipate addi­tions to what's shaping up to be a great class, and we'll have comments on those guys at an appropriate time," Tallman said. 
Contact Jack Thornton at jthornt4@nd.edu 


GREAT LIFESTYLE 
Turtle Creek Aartments 

Adjacent to Campus! 
Remodeled Apartments Available 
www.campuscribs.net 
1.866.395.4201 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 
Presentation will be on i, Ihursday, November 17
li 

m at 3:30p.m. in the 
I: McKenna Hall Auditorium 
i 

Reception to follow 
ijJ 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS 

William M. Ramsey Department of Philosophy 
Gail Bederman 
Departnwnt of History 


CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 44 Times to revel, 72 Uncool sort 1 Fudge maker? 
maybe 

45 Not the Society-handsomest dog 
5 Iowa's DOWN 
1 Boutonnieres' 

10 Asian nation 46 Surface figure places 
suffix 48 Ones who've 2 One found just 14 A lot? gone splitsville 
around the 15 Like early PC 50 Circus Maximus block? graphics attire 3 Pique 16 Mall aid 54 Vas deferens 
4 Accountand others

17 Start of a quip overseer, for 56 Place for carved short
20 Big bird initials 
5 Car 58 Top guns discontinued in 

21 Source of iron 
22 Pound sound so Circus Maximus 2004 
23 Some are greeting 6 Grounds crew
famous 61 MP3 player 7 "Exodus" hero
27 Unearthly maker a Bring home30 Elvis trademark 62 End of the quip 9 Pasty-faced31 Induce rain from 67 of the earth 10 Like hair at33 Claimer's cry sa "You've got salons34 Grant-in­mail" hearer 11 Gold medal, e.g.
36 Milky Way and 
69 Lily family others 
12 Lunched

member 38 City, state,_ 13 Opposite of
70 Four-time Indy paleo­39 Quip, part 2 winner 40 Nice things to 49 Ready for 59 Started a18 Like some

43 "Yo!" 71 Rotten look at dinner triathlon
women's jeans 51 Fountain sound

19 time 41 Counter call 62 Hip-hop "cool"
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
(course slot) 52 Hold fast 

42 1974 Marty 63 Noted resident 
-7+:-:+.+.:-r.:+.-:-t::;-~ 24 Hotfoot it Feldman comic­
53 Did toe loops, 

of the Dakota =+-=+-:+=+=+=-+i:-1 25 Demeaning one horror role say 55 "Quiet!" locale 64 Milne marsupial
-=+*~::-i 26 Use wax on 
43 Took to the 
57 Part of the

cleaners 65 Off one's feed••• 28 Egyptian sacred
• mnemonic for
bird 

47 For no profit EGBDF 66 Actor McKellen 1-:'-t":+.±:-fl!!l-=+::,.r.;:fi!I!I-:+.~::+.::+.:-B 29 Empath's skill ....:~+=-•-=-+-=+:+.:-! 32 Coffeemaker 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with astyle 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 35 Went off the 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaydeep end? 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 37 Sing "K-K-K­
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 Katy," say past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). ,_7:+-:::+.~±::+.-:-i 39 Big silver Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young exporter solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

page 27 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ATLAN 
j

I [I [] 
02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc, All Rights Reserved. 
SUROC 
rxJ 

~ ~ ~

NAHZIG WHAT THE: MOYI!: DIR!:C.TOR !:ND!:D
rJ 


1 UP WITH WH!:N HI: 
www,jumble,com 
TRI!:D FL-Y-FISHING. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) BASIN WALLOP CASHEW 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEIJRITIES OOI{N ON TillS DAY: Zena Urey, 17; Sum Wuterston, 65; Pctula Clark. 73; Beverly D'Angelo, 54 
lbppy IJirthday: Being trw: to yourself will he what counts this year. So much will depend on how you handle others. By giving in just to keep the peace. you will he doing yourself an injustice. Change is inevitable, so stop being so ati·aid to make it. You arc more prepared than you realize. Your numbers arc 4. II, 19, 24.30.38 
AIHES (March 21-April 19): You will come into cash or a gill in an unusual way. Take care of a legal concern and resolve issues that have been holding you hack. Don't let a personal problem gcl in the way. ••• TAliRUS (Apri120-May 20): You may he caught between what everyone else wants you to do and what you can do. Don't let down the people you love the most, hut tell them how much you have to get done. You may be surpriscd when help is offered. ••• GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): Problems with truvcl. authority figures, institutions. hanks or hospitals can be expected. Don't leave yourscl f wide open ll1r criticism. Invest in something that will contribute to the way you look and feel. ••• CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Don't make it difficult for others to know what you want. Ifyou arc open and honest ahout your needs, you stand a better clumcc of getting what you want. Love and romance can brighten your day. • • • • LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This may he a dillicult day for you to gel things done. Don't put so much pressure on yourself that you feel depleted. Take your time and do what you can. Tomorrow is another day and another chance to gct things done. •• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Take control and make things happen. Someone who is willing to help you will he oflended ifyou arc critical and unappreciative. Acceptance and willingness to share will get you whatever you want. ..... LtnRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Feel out any situation you face and talk your way through it step-by-step. Ifyou assume something, you arc likely to be faced with opposition. This is not the day to shop for personal items. • • • SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A partnership can be revamped or taken to the next level. Talks may be diflicult to get started, hut once you arc under way, you should be able to resolve issues. Don't be surprised if someone shows you his or her true colors. • • • SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Make it a point to talk about your ideas and work strategies. Your candidness will be respected and bring you interesting responses. Make some overdue changes to your living space. • • • CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): You can lind new outlets for some of your ideas or concepts. Travel foH-msiness and you will prosper. Spend a little time romancing the one you love, even if it is over the phone. • • • •• AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. II!): Long hours now will ensure you get everything done on time. Your ability to take nothing and make it into something will impress someone you've been trying hard to get to know better. Follow through with your promises. •• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may have problems with someone who is trying to tell you how to do things. Don't let this situation get blown out of proportion. Listen, acknowledge and then add your own unique touch. •••• 
Birthday naby: You are versatile, unpredictable and interested in the unlluniliar. You are controlling, determined and willing to go the distance to acquire your objectives. 
Eugenia's Weh sites: astroadvice.comfi>r fun. eugenia/ast.comfi.r confidential consultatiom 
---------------------~------------------------------------~--------------­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address _____________________________________ 
City ___________ State ____ Zip_______ 
-
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, November 16, 2005 
page 28 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Gophigure 
Former Golden Gopher is driving Irish to success 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
Julia Quinn had obvious reason to be happy after Friday's victory over Minnesota. She won two events and helped Notre Dame obtain a 163­135 vi.ctory. But Quinn had another reason to smile -she had just
.. 
defeated her old team. 
Quinn, a self-proclaimed Irish fan since she was able to walk, initially chose Minnesota over Notre Dame as her destination of choice for her collegiate swimming career. 
"I had a lot of family come to Notre Dame ineluding a couple who were involved in varsity athletics, so I guess I was just trying to break away from my family," Quinn said. 
Despite enjoying two successful seasons for the Golden Gophers, which included an NCAA champi­onship appearance, Quinn found 
see QUINN/page 26 


fOOTBALL 
Hoine stretch ends on Orange 
Weis has compiled a 3-2 record thus Jar at Notre Dame Stadium 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
As the wins piled up and the Charlie Weis bandwagon rolled along into mid­October, the first-year coach had not won a home game. 
Notre Dame's head coach did not earn his first home victory until Oct. 22 against BYU, 49-23, and one week later he had a 10-year con­tract extension that sent crit­ics into fits. But Weis has remained consistent at Notre Dame Stadium in an unusual­ly long home stretch, not only moving to 3-2 at home with a victory over Navy Saturday but also outscoring his past three opponents there, 132­65. 


Fullback Asaph Schwapp hits a hole opened by guard Dan Stevenson during Notre Dame's victory over Navy Saturday. 
"It's important for us to establish the fact that we can win at home," Weis said in his Tuesday press confer­ence. "By reputation this place has been known as a quiet pla,ce to play, and it certainly hasn't been that way this year." 
Saturday's upcoming game against Syracuse will be the fifth consecutive Irish home game since winning at Purdue, 49-28, on Oct. 1. 
That long stretch has not allowed Notre Dame to get into a completely normal and comfortable rhythm of play­ing at horne, since two bye weeks preceded the stretch and then threatened to stall Irish momentum following the BYU victory. 
"The only problem was there were byes intertwined in that," Weis said. "So we've been horne forever, but in there we also have had two sets of unorthodox weeks, a no-game week followed by a long week. So there's the flip­side of that in both ways. 
"Right now, like I said, our next game is at horne and we're just happy to be play­ing at home, but we realize that Syracuse isn't going to just come in here and lay 
see CUSE/page 25 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Walsh inks four strong 
•

sw1m1ners 
By JACK THORNTON Sports Writer 
The renaissance that has taken place at Rolfs Aquatic Center in the past two years is showing no sign of letting up, as the end of the recruiting season today brings Notre Dame one of its best classes in school history. 
"IThis is] probably the best class we've had to date since we got the full allotment of scholar­ships allowed," assistant coach Matt Tallman said. "Our current junior class is probably our best class top-to-bottom and they'll probably rival those guys and to have them both on the same team will be great." 
Ted Brown is a member of that vaunted junior class and has 
see FOUR/page 26 
HOCKEY 

Babin takes home conference honor 
CCHA names Irish junior the league's top defenseman for week 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Wri rer 

The positive news keeps corning for the Notre Dame hockey program. 
After a two-game sweep of Bowling Green last weekend, I r i s h 
defenseman Noah Babin was named Central Collegiate Hockey Association defenseman of the week. 


Babin had Babin three assists in the two games against the Falcons, a feat he attributes to solid play by Notre Dame's forwards. 
"I was just kind of looking for an open person," Babin said. "I just got lucky that our forwards were on fire." 
The award was the second of its kind for the Irish this season. Freshman goaltender Jordan Pearce won rookie of the week Nov. 1 after shutting out Princeton. 
Last season the only Irish player to win a weekly confer­ence was award was goalie Morgan Cey, and he did that in the first month of the sea­son. 
"I think you're going to see a lot more individual awards [this year]," Babin said. "We're playing a better brand of hockey than before. That's going to show in a bunch of different things. We're going to score more goals, we're going to play better defense." 
Babin said new coach Jeff Jackson has instilled a confi­dence in this team that it lacked last year in going 5-27­6. 
"We have a lot more struc­ture, which I think we needed, and a lot more direction, which I think we needed," Babin said. 
The Irish are 3-5-0 under Jackson, but four of their loss-
see BABIN/page 24 

en 
NFL 
MLB 
NFL 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
MLB 
LLI

1--
Co) Tisch dies at 79 
z 
St. Louis Cardinals' 

Pittsburgh Steelers 
Philadelphia Eagles 
Kansas State coach 
The players, owners 
The New York Giants 
first baseman Albert 

coach Bill Cowher said 
coach Andy Reid said 
Bill Snyder retired 
and commissioners'

a: ::5 
= 
lost their second co-
Pujols took home his 

Ben Roethlisberger may 
Donovan McNabb like­
Tuesday after 16 years 
office agreed to 
owner in a span of just 
first NL MVP award. 

miss Sunday's game 
ly will not play against 
with the program. 
new, tougher steroids
cc 
three weeks. 
against Baltimore. 

the Giants Sunday. 
penalties Tuesday. 

= 
ti 
page 25 
page 23 

page 22 
page 21 

page 20 
page 19

en 
-



