
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Notre Dame assists as New Orleans tries to rebuild 

Alumni network reaches out to graduates affected by Katrina 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
In the days following Hurricane Katrina, Notre Damn alum Paul Christmann, Class of 1989, was plaguod by the mneerns of any New Orleans resi­dent -spedfieally his inability to contact any frionds from the devastated city. While Christmann and his family had found housing with rolativos in Florida, the hasty evacuation of New Orloans loft most residents without any way to loeate their neighbors and eoworkers. 
But Christmann, a software developer and presi­dont of the Notre Dame dub of New Orleans, was abln to unite his profession and his passion to mrrw up with a solution -he developed an online alumni bulletin board at www.ndkatrina.com. 
"Tho rnally popular Wnb sites were listing hun-
AP 

The Notre Dame community has worked to respond to the see KATRINA/page 4 fallout from Hurricane Katrina. 

Students from southern schools adjust to University, College life 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
It has been two and a half months since Hurricane Katrina struck New Orleans and sur­rounding Gulf Coast communities, displaeing thou­sands of students attending colleges and universi­ties in the area. 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are among hun­dreds of schools nationwide to allow students from the affected region to take classes on a temporary basis until Gulf Coast universities reopen their doors for the spring semester. 
"The decision to help students displaced by Hurricane Katrina grew out of a desire to assist those less fortunate who were impacted by the dev­astation of this natural disa..c;;tnr," said Daniel Meyer, vice president for enrollment management at Saint 
see STUDENTS/page 4 


Alumni residents sell pizza from basetnent 
about it," Leimkuehler said. 
But the idea didn't die. This year, the plan resurfaced through Alumni's Hall Council, when someone broached food sales as an option for students. 
"I said I'd do it because my older brother, who graduated last year, used to work in the Keough kitchen and ... they kind of did the same thing, so thafs where I got the idea," Leimkuehler said. 
The basement pizza business set up in Alumni parallels those established by many other men's dorms such as Keenan, Dillon, Keough, Zahm, Morrissey, Knott and Siegfried. Carroll, Stanford, Sorin, St. Edward's and Fisher are among those that do not have pizza sales. 
Dawg Pizza does not have to pay rent since it also sells dorm merchandisfl, which helps the business thrive. 
But luck playp,d a role, as well. 
"We were looking at ovens 
see PIZZA/page 6 
By KATIE KOHLER News Writ(•r 
Students at Saint Mary's cross the strent to Notre Damn to study, socialize, attnn<l meet­ings, exorcise and nat on a daily basis. And tlwy ol"tlm rely on thP Saint Mary's Sneurity Dnpartnwnt to gnt thnm home safe and sound. 
With days getting shorter and wnallwr getting eoldnr, the 15­rninutn walk or five-minute bike ridn to Notre Dame has bneom1~ loss and less appealing to many Saint Mary's students. Instead they arn choosing more often usn the various modes of free transportation offered. 

Dave Chapman, director of security at Saint Mary's, said there are three escort services offered to students: the trolley, the escort van and security nseorts in squad cars. 
"There are always safety issues," Chapman said. "That is why we provide these services. It is a proactive way to pnwnnt something bad from happening 
see SECURITY/page 6 

By JOE PIARULLI News Writer 
Domino's and Sbarro beware. Thanks to sophomore business major Patrick Leimkuehler, the residents of Alumni Hall no longer need to call local restau­rants for a slice of pizza. 
Leimkuehler, an Alumni resi­dent, is giving local pizza chains the proverbial run for their money after creating a pizza place in the basement of Alumni, aptly named Dawg Pizza after the dorm's mascot. 
Along with two roommates ­fellow business major Dan Ott 
-and architecture major Kevin Kelly -Leimkuehler started the business Oct. 8. The three are currently the only employees and are all equal partners. 
"I wanted to [start[ it last year, and I went to talk to the guy run­ning food sales last year and he just wasn't really enthusiastic 


Students offered safe 


shuttles by security 
Students to send 


packages to Iraq 
By ALICIA CONLEY News Writer 
Beginning next week, the Notre Dame Accounting Association will be shipping out packages filled with Notre Dame memorabilia and other items -including hot choco­late, Gatorade mix, snack food, DVDs, magazines and soup -to Notre Dame gradu­ates currently serving in lhn armed forces overseas. 
The Accounting Association has been eolleeting namns and addresses of graduates sm·v­ing overseas since late last week, said junior Hena Zarah. one or the directors of the projeet. 
The association will bn sending packages to any address it rec.eives, she said. 
"[The Ae1~ounting Association! sent out an n­mail to the Notre Dame com­munity saying if you know anyone serving, give us tlwir address and we'll send tlwm a package," Zarah said. 
Last year, the association only had 40 requests for paek­ages, but in just five days s i n c e a n n o u n ei n g tlw p r o ­gram, 110 names have bonn submitted, Zarah said. 
Many of tho addrnsses the Assoeiation has rnceived have come from "brothers or sis­tors or nieces of people serv­ing, so it's just as if it were from a family member," Zarah 
see PACKAGES/page 6 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, November 9, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Turkey Day at the slots 
I don't know iff have ever received a mom ofl(msive e-mail in my life-and it was from my Uncle Mark about Thanksgiving. 
"Please give me one vote per family of your honest desire for the meal-our Lisa Schultz house or an early Argosy buflet then back to our house," News he wrote. "Ifthere Production is dissension in your Editor family then the Mother of the house decides. If we have 7 yes's, then we head to the casino. Ifthem is one no, then we go the traditional route and the entin~ day is at ow house." 
I thought it was a joke until several cousins, aunts, and uncles said they would be open to change. 
Thanksgiving isn't supposed to change. We play touch football, eat too much turkey and stufling, watch the Uons and Cowboys and wake my dad up snoring in the third quartor. There are quarks like every family, but when it comes to holi­days, Lhe Gates' (my mom's side) Thanksgiving is like a Norman Rockwell painting. 
Any thought..c; ofconsidering this farce were over once I did about five minutes of research on this Indiana riverboat casino. Eating at a bullet twice a day every day has taught me that mass-produced food just isn't good as a rulE\ but some ofthe menu items were ridiculous. I know one ofmy favorite Thank..c;!-,riving sides, cheesy potato casserole with Hice Krispies on top, might be a little non-traditional, but I have serious reservations that Plymouth pilgrims shared Peel-n-Eat shrimp with Pocahontas. Argosy also offers "home made cranberry relish," but I am still wondering whose home it come from. 
Ambiance is another issue. I guess the adult..c;' and kids' tables would not only be in separate rooms this year, but in one "six uniquely themed seating areas." After dinner, we could watch football in the adjacent sports bar, but I think my dad would find difficulty napping on a barstool instead of a La-Z-Boy. 
Possibilities ofditching my family, and the other weirdos that spend Thanksgiving at a casino, came to mind. I muld drive to Lexington instead of Cincinnati to spend the holiday with my buddy working at HoneyBaked Ham-I'll take some ham over fried chicken, which was on the casino menu, any day of the year. My roommates' house was another option; I could meet up with the lam after dinner to gloat about gravy without giblet bits (also on the menu). I was also contemplating maxing out my credit card on a plane ticket to lA to see my sister who can't come home. 
But, above all, lbanksgiving is about family. So I threatened my family that I would be doing my best to blend in with the traditional Argosy Casino clientele by purchasing a Nascar T-shirt, wearing bleach blonde mullet wig under a John Deere trucker hat, and borrowing my brother-in-law's Carhartt bibs he wears duck hunting. In addition to my themed ensemble, I'd chain-smoke Marlboros during the main course and Swisher Sweets with dessert. 
Thank God my mom vetoed. I really didn't want to endorse Jeff Gordon. 
Contact Lisa Schultz at lschultz@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTION 
Due ro a reporting error, an article in the Nov. 8 edirion of rhe Observer said a Campus Life Council resolution creared new resrricrions on hall dances. In fact, everything mentioned in the resolution is already serried policy; the CLC resolurion calls for that serried policy ro be added ro the Dance Commission Manual. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT KIND OF CAMPUS BUSINESS DO YOU WANT TO START AND WHY? 





Andy Hronick Kristine Murphy Lisa Furibondo Bob Brooks Michelle Furibondo Rema Slaieh 
fifth year senior freshman freshman fifth year senior freshman fifth year senior off-campus McGlinn McGlinn off-campus McGlinn off-campus 
"Maybe some ''A Chipotle!" ''Anchor Bar!" ''A risky "Wegmans ... "Aristocampo ... kind ofuseful business. " a. k. a. the best in Bond." 
service . . . like polling students and taking their pictures!" 

GEOFF MATIESON!The Observer 
A squirrel takes a quiet snack at Holy Cross Cemetery Tuesday. 
OFFBEAT 

Bolivians honor skull-toting tradition 
lA PAZ, Bolivia-It's a tra­dition people outside Bolivia might find creepy: families perch human skulls on altars, revering them and asking them for protection and good luck. On Tuesday, the skulls were gussied up and taken to cemeteries, where the fami­lies crowned them with flow­ers and filled their jaws with lit cigarettes. 
The chapel in La Paz's main cemetery was filled with hun­dreds of people jockeying to get their skull, or "natita," in a good position for a special annual Mass. Thousands more people gathered out­side. 
"I was scared of them at 
first, but now I realize I was scared because I wasn't tak­ing care of them," said Shirley Vargas, who brought two skulls, who she calls Vicente and Maria, to the Mass. "Now I keep them in my room with me. I love them a lot, and they have helped our family when we've had problems." 
Milton Eyzaguirre, an anthropologist, said Bolivians are now more willing to bring out their skulls than before. 
Doubts raised about toilet­seat case 
DENVER -A man who sued Home Depot last month claiming a prank left him glued to a toilet seat made a similar allegation about another restroom more than a year ago, an official told a newspaper. 
Bob Dougherty's lawsuit alleges employees at the store ignored his pleas for help on the day before Halloween 
· 2003 because they thought he was kidding. But Ron Trzepacz, former director of operations for the town of Nederland, where Dougherty lives, told the Rocky Mountain News in Tuesday's editions that Dougherty told him in the summer of 2004 he was glued to a toilet seat in the town's visitor center but pulled himself free. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY a: 
LLI ::E: 
~ 
LLI 

~ 
..I 
< 


(.) 


...I 0 HIGH 61 HIGH 42 HIGH 50 HIGH 56 LOW 53 LOW 36 LOW 32 LOW 39 
store ever." 
IN BRIEF 

Michael McConnell of the American Friends Service Committee will speak at 7:30 
p.m. tonight at the Center for Social Concerns about his experiences with war and the draft. 
Andre Connors, senior cura­tor of the National Hispanic Cultural Center in Albuquerque, N.M., will give a lecture titled "Graphic Text: The Enduring Power of a Well-Designed Message" at 7 p.m. tonight in the Annenberg Auditorium in the Suite Museum. 
The Saint Mary's Spanish Club is hosting a salsa night from 8 p.m. to 10 tonight in the Saint Mary's Student Center. Music, dancing and games included. 
The Notre Dame volleyball team faces the University of Saint Louis at 7 p.m. tonight in the Joyce Center. 
The film "2001: A Space Odyssey" will be shown at 10 
p.m. Thursday in Browning Cinema as part of the Physics and Film Series. Tickets are $6 general public, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors and $3 all students. To purchase tickets, call 574­631-2800 or visit http://per­forming arts.nd.edu to pur­chase tickets. 
Major Jason Frei will be the guest speaker at the Veteran's Day Recognition Ceremony will be held Friday at 4 p.m. at the Clarke Memorial Fountain between LaFortune Student Center and Hesburgh Library. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


Atlanta 82 I 60 Boston 50 I 38 Chicago 61 I 35 Denver 56 I 41 Houston 87 I 64 Los Angeles 67 I 57 Minneapolis 46 I 30 New York 58 I 46 Philadelphia 63 I 49 Phoenix 88 I 63 Seattle 53 I 46 St. Louis 67 I 37 Tampa 83 I 63 Washington 53 I 40 
Wednesday, November 9, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Law-creates a new­ND retirement option 
thing she would consider. 
By SARAH WHEATON "It's good for me, because 
New' Writt·r hopnfully I will bo making more 
money in the future," Sgambati 
Thanks to a nnw fndnral law, said. "I love having it taxed on Notrn Damn nrnploy110S will the way in, thnn thorn are no havn a rww rntiJ'IHnnnt option surprises when you withdraw." availahln at thn start or tho nnw Sgambati said she currently ynar. contributes to a traditional 
Tlw nnw accounts -called 401 (k) account and a Hoth IHA, Hoth 401(kl options-differ so she would consider switching from the traditional 401 (kl to thn Hoth 40l(kl account accounts by taxing worker's whnn it is made available. But monny as tlwy narn it instead or she dons have reservations. aftnr tlwy withdraw it, Notre "Tho fad that the government llanw assistant professor or passnd a Jaw making it an 11conomi1~s Jim Sullivan said. option makes me suspicious," 
Tho traditional 40 I (kl Sgambati said. "It just seems 
account allows workers to Ialor too good to bn true. I would invnst and savn th11ir money have to do my own research on without taxation. The taxes are it." ehargnd Ialor, when workers go Kamaria Porter. lead organiz­to withdraw money from their er of' Notre Dame's campus 
account. labor action project, stressed 
Tho nnw Hoth 40 I ( k l option the importance of putting the would tax workers' money as new option in context. they earn it, allowing thorn to "As a worker told me the 
withdraw money from their other day, benefits don't put aceount tax-frnn lallw. food on the table," Porter said. 
The law will go into effect "Whiln people should b~1 able to .Jan. 1. and most eompanies will plan for tomorrow, the needs of provide tho option sometime today must be addressed with a af'llw tlwn. living wage and voice at work." 
The nnw option will not be The campus labor action proj­best for everyone, specifically ect has been working to taxpayers who are eligible for improve employee benefits. tax breaks that are based on "I think it's important that taxable ineome, Sullivan said. employees at Notre Dame main­
"Thn Hoth 40 I ( k l is most like­tain and improve their benefits, ly to hn an attraetive option for induding retirement plans, but thosn who nxpnct to be paying a we need. to focus on ensuring a higher tax ratn in rdirmnent living wage and the dignity of than tlwy do today," Sullivan the worker," said Katie-Rose said. Iloovnr. a member of the cam­
This usually refers to younger pus labor action project. workers who beliovn they will Joe Murphy, another member havn a highor ineome lator than of CLAP, agreed people need to tlwy do now or those who put the chango in perspective. bnlinvo tho government will "Regardless of when you tax raisn income tax ratos in the it, there is not enough there," future, Sullivan said. Murphy said. "That is the prob­
Colette Sgambati, program lem that needs to be addressed, assistant for research and poli­instead of when it is taxed." cy at the Kroc Institute for International l'eacn Studies, Contact Sarah Wheaton at said tlw nnw option is some-swheaton@nd.edu 

Rebuilding needed after tornado 

Associated Press sustained major damage. 41 miles long and about a 
Hesidents likely would not be quarter-mile wide. At least 
EVANSVILLE, Ind.-Crews allowed to return to the area 1 S people died at tho mobiln finished draining a four-acre until Wednesday or homo park, and four others retention pond Tuesday as Thursday. were killed in neighboring they made sure there were Gov. Mitch Daniels, who Warrick County. Doznns no more victims of' the huge visited damaged areas of remained hospitalized. tornado that killed 22 people Evansville and Expnrts say over the weekend. n e a r b y the tornado was 
Five bodies initially were Newburgh for unusually
"We're focused on 
found in the pond near the the second time intense and fast.
getting people back 
Eastbrook Mobile Home Park, since the torna­l'uslwd by a which was torn apart by the do, said allow­on their feet. " rapid shift in the twister. Hescuers found no ing residents to jot stream, it more bodies in the retention gather what raced along at
Eric Dietz
pond, and officials said the remains of their 70 to 75 mph

Indiana director of 
search there was finished. belongings and stayed on 
Also, President Bush signed would be the homeland security the ground for a disaster declaration that first step in a about 35 min-will clear the way for federal gradual recov-utns. said David assistance in Vanderburgh ery. Blanchard, a mntnorologist and Warrick counties. "There will be people bern with the National Wnathnr 
"We're focused on getting who will be without pnrma­Servien in Paducah. Ky. these people back on their nent housing for a good Weathnr servien ol'f'ieials feet," said Eric Dietz, state while," Daniels told reporters were looking into why sonw director or homeland securi­after touring damaged areas special radios failed to pick ty. on foot and by helicopter up a tornado alert sent 10 
State ol'f'icials said nearly Tuesday. minutes before the twister 600 homes were destroyed or The tornado carved a path struck. 



Notre Dame to host regional research project competiton 
Spc<ial to The Observer maties education in America. $100,000 scholarship. finalists, whoso entries are in All of' thn prize morwy will 
It is open to individuals and The Siemens Foundation has mathematics, material sci­be applied toward tlw winning 
Five individuals and four teams of' high school students partnered with six prestigious ence, chemistry, biology, toxi­students' post-secondary edu­tPams of high sdwol students who develop independent institutions to assist in judging cology, biochemistry and cation. Panels of leading sci­have hnnn snlnctnd to eompetn rnsearch projects in the physi­and hosting the regional com­physics, will present their entists and univorsity !'acuity Friday and Saturday at Notre cal or biological seienees or petitions throughout the fall: independent research projPcts will SfHVn as judges at tlw Damn in the Midwnstern mathematics. Competitions in the University of California, to a panel of' judges composed regional and national compnti­HPgional of tire Siemnns six regions across the United Berkeley, and the University of of Notre Dame faculty. The tions, under tho indepondnnt W11s li ngh o usn Sein n ce and States are being held through­Texas (Nov. 4-5); the individual regional winner will oversight of tlw Collnge Board Tnc:hnology Compntition, a out Novembnr. Hegional schol­Massachusetts Institute of receive an award of $:3,000; and the Educational Tnsting leading scholarship and arship winners advance to the Technology and Notre Dame members of the winning team Service. awards program. national competition Dee. 1 to (Nov. 11-12); and Carnegie will share a prize of' $6,000. The public can vi1~w studnnt 
Tlw Nnw .Jersey-based non­Dnc. 5 in New York City for a Mellon University and the All regional individual and posters at 5:30p.m. Nov. II in profit Siemens Foundation top individual prize or Georgia Institute of team runners-up will be tho Great llall of' the llesburgh ereatnd the competition to $100,000. Members of the top Technology (Nov. 1 S-191. awarded $1 ,000 scholar­Cnnter for International enhaneP sl:inneP and mathe-winning team will share a The Midwestern Hogional ships. Stud ins. 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 9, 2005 
ter, reflected on her experi­University. 
stemmed from his years at the ences thus far.
Students
"Social concern is part of the 
"Things at Saint Mary's and great values of Notre Dame," he 
in South Bend have been
continued from page 1 
great," Prior said. "The girls education, but if you walk out 
said. "It's great to have a fine 
here arc really sweet, and I was with a diploma and don't do 
Mary's. "As a Catholic institu­already familiar with South anything that attends to the 
tion, we felt compelled to assist Bend before I decided to go to human condition, you've wasted 
those in need, just as we would Saint Mary's. your time." 
hope otherls] would reach out "I am from Chicago originally, One large show of fmancial aid 
to this community if the circum­so South Bend isn't too far from came from the Notre Dame Club 
stances were reversed." home." of Orange County, which raised 
Meyer described the many Prior also discussed her aca­$10,000 among its membership 
steps involved in admitting dis­demic schedule, noting her pro­and prompted two local high 
placed students into Saint fessors at Saint Mary's helped schools to raise an additional 
Mary's and helping them to her to adjust after beginning $12,000. Of this total, $10,000 
adjust upon arrival. classes two weeks later than was donated directly to the 
"We cheeked with the housing her classmates. She also said Notre Dame Club of New 
staff to deter-her coursework at Orleans. 
mine where Saint Mary's is
"! was scheduled to 
"We felt they had the best per­
underutilized structured so she'll spective as to where help was 
space existed," take the same be able to resume needed," said Tony Hoberts, 
he said. "We a normal schedule
basic classes at 
worked with upon her return topresident of the Notre Dame 
Tulane, so it fits
Club of Orange County. "The 
faculty to deter­New Orleans in concept of the 'Notre Dame fam­
mine appropri­perfectly with my January. ily' is not just a catchphrase, and 
ate courses and "I was scheduled
curriculum from 
avoided those to take the samewe felt that our sister club would 
Tulane."
that the time basic classes at help the most people." 
know how to use the money to delay since the Tulane, so it fits 
The family of which Hoberts 
start of the Julie Prior perfectly with my spoke did not consist only of 
semester would curriculum from
Tulane University
present insur­Tulane," she said. alumni, as approximately 50 
freshman
mountable Notre Dame's club's members are not Notre 
percent of the Orange County 
challenges. We administration has Dame graduates. Family 
worked closely with the staff not released many details remains a term that is frequent­
from the First Year Studies regarding its arrangements to ly used to characterize the Notre 
Office to assist student<> in prop­accept displaced students for Dame community, Hoberts said. 
er selection of course work." the fall semester, emphasizing "One of the great things about 
Meyer also noted the twofold the need to allow these students Notre Dame is that students can 
responsibility that colleges face to feel like a part of the commu­say, 'When I graduate, there's a 
when accepting displaced stu­nity. family out there for me,"' 
dents. "Everyone has been incredi­O'Brien said. 
He said Saint Mary's would bly generous and responsive [to O'Brien suggested that most 
forward fees collected for the displaced students at Notre tales of selfless service will never 
semester to the students' home Dame]." Vice President and surface, since few alumni want 
universities. Saint Mary's will Associate Provost Jean Ann attention for their post-Katrina 
also award transfer credit on Linney said. "We have tried to efiorts. 
many courses a student has provide as 'normal' an experi­"Like Notre Dame students, 
already taken. ence as possible, trying to give a the alumni didn't do service to 
"This allows displaced stu­visiting student the opportunity make a name," O'Brien said. 
dents to avoid interruptions in to have the same degree of pri­"They do it to make an impact 
the pursuit of their educational vacy and anonymity that upon people. They just want to 
objectives," he said. degree-seeking students at get out there and serve others." 
Julie Prior, a first-year stu­Notre Dame enjoy." dent at Tulane University in Contact Karen Langley at 
New Orleans who is attending Contact Steve Kerins at klanglel@nd.edu 
Saint Mary's for the fall semes-skerins@nd.edu 


Katrina 
continued from page 1 

dreds or thousands of entries," Christmann said. "I thought I could do something similar but for a more targeted group -if I was looking for my NO alumni friends, maybe an ND Web site would be the right place to go." 
The site has succeeded in helping people locate one anoth­er, giving a place to offer and request help and supplying a way to lind alumni in any city. 
"Alumni around the country asked me where they could start helping -they were willing to drop whatever they had to show up in our city and start the rebuilding process," Christmann said. "I think this is tied directly to the values that the school espouses, and its Catholic back­ground." 
Christmann, who also created a bulletin board for Hurricane Hita, was only one of many Notre Dame alumni who thought of their alma mater in a time of need. 
"A lot of alumni, as they fled New Orleans, took two things with them: their class ring and their football tickets for this sea­son," said Sean O'Brien, director of the alumni community service program. "They turned to Notre Dame as their home and came back to the security of the University." 
In the wake of Katrina, many alumni strove to serve others and tied this desire to serve back to their time at Notre Dame, O'Brien said. 
At least 80 percent of Notre Dame alumni clubs participate in service activities, which should come as no surprise on a campus that encourages service among its students, he said. 
The Alumni Association raised $46,000 for Katrina relief efforts as of Nov. 1, while many alumni around the country have made separate donations through their workplaces or other charities. 

and we saw the absolute devas­tation that it brought, we felt we had to make an exception," said Kristin Leonardo, club manager and a 2000 Notre Dame gradu­ate. 
The University is successful at fostering service work among its students and this social con­sciousness is equally strong among its alumni, Leonardo said. 
"The Notre Dame community makes it 'cool' to do service work, whereas other schools are more interested in their fraterni­ties or sororities," Leonardo said. "The University has so many service projects going on around campus, it's almost hard not to get involved in some­thing." 
Notre Dame alumni have also been involved in developing ideas for active service work. Catherine Kane, Class of 1992, proposed to the Alumni Association that they could organize school break opportu­nities for students to work on Gulf Coast relief efforts and damage prevention efforts for future storms. 
Kane, who has. been active with disaster relief for live years, said that her interest in service is the same as any Notre Dame graduate. 
"To paraphrase Luke 12:48, 'To whom much is given, much is expected,"' she said. "I have received tremendous gifts and the opportunity to train in the communications and disaster relief fields. It is difficult to describe how rewarding each day is when that day has a posi­tive impact on even one person." 
O'Brien suggested that the trips Kane proposed, which are being considered for the spring or possibly winter break, should focus on the poorest areas. 
"New Orleans will rebuild itself, but Biloxi, Mississippi, has so many people who are just the poorest of the poor," O'Brien said. "Even ACE is reevaluating whether to reopen its schools there." 





ORLD & NATION 
WcJnesJay, November 9, 2005 COMPILED FROM TH.E OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Second Hussein lawyer assassinated 
BAGJ II>AD, Iraq -Three masked gunmen in a spending Opel assassinatnd a second lawynr in tlw Saddam Hussein trial Tuesday, casting doubt on Iraq's ability to try the casn and lnading a promirwnt war crimes prose­cutor to urge moving the procnndings to another Arab country. 
Adnl ai-Zulwirli, lawyer for former Vien l'rnsidnnt Taha Yassin Harnadan, dind whnn bullnts worn sprayed at his car in a largnly Sunni Arab neighborhood of wesl!Hn Baghdad. The shots also woundnd Thamir ai­Khuzaie, attorrwy for another co-dnfnndant, Saddarn's half brotlwr Barazan Ibrahim. 
Thn braznn daylight attack on a major avnmw camn thren wonks after the kidnap­slaying of another defense lawyer, Saadoun al-.lanabi. llis body was found Oct. 20, onn day after the trial's opening session, where hn rnprnsented /\wad ai-Bandar. a formnr ollieial in Saddarn's Baath Party. 
No group clai11wd responsibility for the killings. An Iraqi gov1~rnmnnt spoknsman pointed to Saddarn loyalists for thn latest attack, while the didator's lawyer blamed the Shiite-dorninatnd governmnnt. 
Six nations gather for nuclear talks 
BI·:JJJN(; -South Kon1a on Tuesday urged delegates to six-nation talks on North Korna's nuclear disarmament to crnatn an atmos­plwrn of trust as participants geared up for anotlwr round of negotiations in Beijing. 
Tensions lwtween the United States and North Korea, however, wmn already build­ing. Thn communist country critieized l'n1sidnnt Bush for calling North Korean lnadnr Kim .long II a "tyrant," saying the rnrnark put the prospncts of thn talks in doubt. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Board's ruling questions evolution 
TOPEKA, Karl. -Hnvisiting a topic that nxposnd Kansas to nationwidn ridicule six ynars ago, the state Board of' Education approvnd seinrH~n standards for public schools Tunsday that east doubt on thn tlwory or evolution. 
Thn board's 6-4 vote, expected for months, was a victory for intnllignnt design advocatns who helped draft the standards. Intelligent design holds that thn univnrsn is so complex that it must have been crnatnd by a higher power. 
Critics of thn proposed language charged that it was an attempt to inject creationism into public schools in viola­lion or the separation between church and state. 

Congress investigates secret prisons 
WASIIINGTON-Scnatn Majority Leader Bill Frist and llousn Spcaknr Dnnnis llastert eireulatnd a lntter Tuesday calling for a congressional investigation into the disdosurn of allngnd secrnt U.S. interroga­tion eentnrs abroad. 
The Washington Post reported Nov. 2 on the existnnce of secret U.S. prisons in Eastern Europe f'or tnrror suspeets. 
Seerntary of' State Condoleezza Hice side­steppnd qunstions on secret prisons Tuesday, saying the United States was in a "diiTerent kind of war" and had an obliga­tion to defend its1~lf. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Counties request time zone change 
INDIANAPOLIS -The fednral government announend thn datns and times of four public hearings it will conduct to gather public input on rnqunsts from eountins wanting to switch to the CPntral Time Zonn. 
The U.S. Departmnnt of' Transportation, which regulatns time zones, recently pro­posed that live or 19 counties that initially petitioned for a dHmgn be rnovnd to Central tirnn. Two counties dropped thnir petitions hnl'ore tho agency's doadlinc for requests nxpired. 

Social Security plans delayed 
Lawmakers believe system will not be overhauled until Bush's term ends 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -It will be 2009, after the nnxt presidnntial eleetion, bnf'ore lawmakers serious­ly consider overhauling Soeial Sneurity, the ehair­rnan of the Senate panel overseeing thn program said Tuesday. 
Finance Committee Chairman Charles Grassley, H-lowa, said he's "very pessimistic" that lawmakers can act bofore the end of President Bush's second term on Social Security ideas that Bush made tho center­piece of this year's legisla­tive agenda. 
''I'm pessimistic that it could come up before 2009," Grasslny told an audience at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. "Doesn't mean that I won't try to bring it up before 2009." 
Betwenn now and 2009, the political environment will heat up for midterm eongressional elections and then the next presi­dential election. 
Bush acknowledged at a press conference last month that Congress has little appetite for taking on the issue this year, even after he made dozens of speeches nationwide. 
"I did make some cia! health means law­probl~m i~ not ~oi~.g long-term financial health. progress convincing the makers don't have to wait away, McCrory satd. I Grassley said Bush had American people there for upcoming congression­think both Democrats and campaigned on Social was a problem," Bush al and presidential elec­Hepublicans recognize Security issues and there­said. "And I'm going to tions, said Hep. Jim that this problem is not fore entered his second continue talking about the McCrery, H-La., who going away." term with "somewhat of a problem because I strong­heads the llouse Ways and At this ye<tr's State of rnandatn" to address the ly believe that the role of Means Subcommittee on the Union address, Bush retirement and disability those of us in Washington, Social Security. asked Congress to estab­program, but el'f'orts to one role is to confront "I think that it is possi­lish personal accounts for · unite the GOP around a problems." ble for us to pass Social individual Social Security single plan failed. 
The need to confront Seeurity reform either beneficiaries and make Lawmakers developed problems with Social next year or the year necessary changes to several proposals, but Security's long-term linan-after, simply because the shorfl up the program's none advanced to a vote. 

fRANCE 


Riots show effect of discrimination 
working against the discrimination children of Arab and black African
Associated Press that feeds the frustration of youths immigrants arc Muslim, police say made to feel that they do not belong the violence is not being drivnn by PAHIS -France declared a state in France. Islamic groups. of emergency Tuesday to quell the "We must be lucid: The Hepublic Images of' teenagers from immi­country's worst unrest since the stu­is at a moment of truth," Yillepin grant families pelting riot police dent uprisings of 1968 that toppled told parliament. "The effectiveness with stones and gasoline bombs ­a government, and the prime minis­of our integration model is in ques­rnminiseent of Palestinian youths ter said the nation faced a "moment tion." lie called the riots "a warn­attacking Jsranli patrols-arn strik­of truth" over its failure to integrate ing" and "an appeal." ing a cord throughout the Arab Arab and African immigrants and Despite his conciliatory tone, world. their children. Villepin said riot police faced The Egyptian daily Al-Massaie The extraordinary security meas­"determined individuals, structured referred to the riots as "the inte­ures, which began Wednesday and gangs, organized criminality," and fadeh of' the poor." Arabic satellite are valid for 12 days, clear the way that restoring order "will take networks have given lead covnrage for curfews after nearly two weeks time." Hinters have been using to the mayhem, with regular live of rioting in neglected and impover­mobile phone text messages and the reports. Newspapers throughout the ished neighborhoods with largely Internet to organize arson attacks, region havn closely followed the Muslim communities. said police, who arrnsted two story, calling it a "nightmare" and a Prime Minister Dominique de teenage bloggers accused of inciting "war or the suburbs... Villepin, tacitly acknowledging that other youths to riot. Arson attacks, rioting and other France has failed to live up to its The rioting is forcing Francn to unrest have sprnad from the sub­egalitarian ideals, reached out to confront anger building for decadns urbs to hundrnds of cities and towns the heavily immigrant suburbs among residents who complain of -though acts of vioiiHH:c were where the rioting began. He said discrimination and unemployment. down somewhat Monday night from France must make a priority of Although many of the French-born the previous evening. 
Wednesday, November 9, 2005
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
"We made sure all the drinks are at least 50 cents cheaper
Pizza 

than the vending machines," continued from page 1 Leimkuehler said. 
Word of mouth has already 
taken Dawg Pizza a long way, online, and we got keys to the with the help of Mass food sales room in the base­announcements and advertis­ment," Ott said. "We went ing. down there, and we actually "We've put flyers throughout found a pizza oven which the dorm and sometime this nobody told us about. I don't week we're [going to] slide fly­think they knew about it ers under everyone's door," either." Leimkuehler said. 
The three are Dawg Pizza is still trying to open Sunday after cover the start­Mass until 1 a.m.,
"I think it's really 
ing cost, but and Monday
cool how they took 
they've made through Thursday more than the initiative to put from 9 p.m. to 1 $1,000 in sales, it together. The a.m. Orders can be not all of which placed in person or 
guys are cool, and
is profit. after by phone. After 11 
only about two I like to help them p.m., the pizza is weeks of work, out. It's convenient, delivered to dorm Leimkuehler rooms.
it's right here and
and Ott said. Each of the three "Supplies cost it's not that employees works a lot." expensive. about 10 hours a Leimkuehler week. From 9 p.m. said. "Last to 11 p.m. only one
Josh Raycroft 
week we over­person works, but ordered, so we sophomore after that, at two of had some crusts the men are in the that just went kitchen. Over time, bad." the men expect to hire other 
Despite such initial difficul­students in order to expand ties, sales have continuously the hours, deliver to other improved. dorms and perhaps spread out 
Leimkuehler said being a to basements of other dorms. business major has helped "It's really fun. It's not hard smooth some bumps in the to do, I hang out with my road. friends and we deliver to peo­
"Initially there wasn't any­ple in our dorm, so it's really thing specifically I used from kind of social, too," class, but as we Leimkuehler said. started doing Generally the stuff we made other in-hall con­spread sheets "It's really fun ... I cessions open after from our hang out with my 9 p.m. on most Management IT days of the week,
friends and we
class that we and benefit the use," he said. deliver to people in students who work "As we started our dorm, so it's in them. the business up, O'Neill has a con­
really kind of 
more and more cession business on stuff that we social, too. " the first floor. learned in class "We sublet [the was making Patrick Leimkuehler profits] to a couple sense." Dawg Pizza founder of guys that run it. 
Sophomore It's been that way Josh Raycroft, all the years I've one of Dawg been there," Pizza's first loyal customers, O'Neill rector Ed Mack said. said the three men make a They sell pizzas, breadsticks, good pizza. and different kinds of pop. We 
"I think it's really cool how just got the slushie machine they took the initiative to put it fixed, so they're in the slushie together," Raycroft said. "The operation now." guys are cool, and I like to help them out. It's convenient, Contact Joe Piarulli at it's right here and it's not that jpiarull@nd.edu expensive." 
Leimkuehler said price and 

Security 
continued from page 1 
to one of our students." 
In October alone, the escort van and security officers gave more than 2,900 students an escort. 
"No matter what, there is always some way to get back to campus," Saint Mary's freshman Emily Tarnacki said. "I always feel safe because I know if the Sweep isn't run­ning, security will be there in a phone call." 
The trolley, known as the Sweep, runs from 7 a.m. to 
10:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday and stops at Main Circle and Library Circle. The Sweep runs from 7 a.m. to 
2:30 
a.m. at the same locations Fridays and from 9 a.m. to 

2:30 
a.m. on Saturdays. 


But the trolley does not run on Sundays, one of the most common complaints among students who use the shuttle service. 
Saint Mary's freshman Jameson Loubsky said often­times she spends most of the day on Sunday at Notre Dame studying and meeting with friends. The downside is she usually has no way of getting back to Saint Mary's without walking or riding a bike back at night. 
"Once it starts snowing, I am not going to be able to go between campuses as easily since the shuttle does not run on Sundays," she said. 
Freshman Rachel Kalas had similar sentiments. 
"Sometimes I find myself missing my club meetings on Sundays at Notre Dame because it is just too much of a hassle to walk to Notre Dame when it is raining or I am just running late," she said. 
Despite students' qualms, the Sweep is the most popular form of transportation to and from Notre Dame and is free for anyone holding a Notre Dame or Saint Mary's ID card. 
Saint Mary's sophomore Megan Welsch, who rides the trolley frequently, said it is the safest way to travel back and forth. 
"Although the Sweep isn't the most efficient way for Saint Mary's girls to enjoy Notre Dame, it is the safest, most reliable and only resource [for students without cars]," she said. 
Saint Mary's security also provides an escort van around campus, which is affectionate­ly called "Blinkie" by Saint Mary's students. 
The van drives around Saint Mary's campus only and takes students safely from building to building when they do not feel safe walking alone after dark. 
The third escort service for Saint Mary's students is securi­ty officer escorts in squad cars. These officers pick up students at the Grotto after the Sweep is no longer running for the night. 
Chapman said Saint Mary's students appreciate these rides. 
"Students arc respectful and nice to the Security Officers," he said. 
Chapman said another com­mon problem with the escorts is that students will go to the Grotto and call for security while the Sweep is still run­ning because it is more con­venient than walking to one of the pickup points. 
"If they [the students) could use the Sweep instead of the Security Officer on our campus to pick them up, this would keep the Security Officer on our campus to perform their duties here," he said. "Once the Sweep stops, we are more than glad to give them a ride." 
Safety is the most important element of each service, Chapman said. 
"The Sweep, escort van and Officer Escorts are all done for the safety of our students," she said. "That is the most impor­tant point in our Security Department -the safety of the Saint Mary's College Community." 
Contact Katie Kohler kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Zarah said. "The next Monday we're She said the Association putting together all the

Packages 
hopes the Notre Dame memo­boxes, and then that Tuesday, 
continued from page 1 rabilia in the packages will the Tuesday before remind soldiers of their time Thanksgiving, they'll be at the University. shipped out," she said. 
said. The Association is also Zarah said soldiers have 
Members of the Reserve accepting monetary dona­been appreciative of the Officers' Training Corps also tions to pay for other expens­packages in the past. have provided the association es, such as postage, which "Last year we did get a with names of people to send they hope will be at least par­thank-you note from a sol­to, Zarah said. tially covered by donations, dier," Zarah said. "It's the 
"We're pretty sure we'll be Zarah said. most wonderful thing to able to send packages to The Association ran a con­receive a package, especially everyone, but they'll be cession stand a few weeks from the Notre Dame commu­smaller than last year's" ago to help cover the costs. nity. They're very grateful." because of the number of Local South Bend stores The Association will be col­people whose names have such as Wal-Mart are also lecting donations in the lobby been given to them this year, getting involved in the project of the Mendoza College of Zarah said. by giving the Association Business next week from 10 
Every item in the packages store credit to buy items for a.m. to 2 p.m. Monday is donated. the packages, Zarah said. through Friday. 
"We're really depending on "All donations are going to people to give stuff to us to be collected next week," Contact Alicia Conley at make the packages good," Zarah said. aconley 1 @nd.edu 

sticks, nachos and drinks. 

Students said they like to work in the pizza places in dorms because it's generally not a difl1cult job. 
"I occasionally get people ordering from Stanford, so I guess it shows that if people know it's there, they'll make use of it. We get a lot of busi­ness usually," said John Cappa. a sophomore in who works in Keenan's pizza place, Zaland. 
As in Alumni, most of the dorms' pizza services do not bring in a lot of money. 
"It's pretty much non-profit. What we make I just give back to the workers," said 
Gail Bederman Department of 1-Iistory 

Presentation will be on Thursday, November 17 at 3:30p.m. in the McKenna Hall Auditorium 
Reception to follow 
\iJ 
William M. Ramsey
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS Department of Philosophy 
Morrissey senior Dan Liem, who ran his hall's concessions last year. 
TI-lE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Wednesday, November 9, 2005 
page 7 

Dow 
10,539.72 -46.51
}ones 
4. 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volun 
1,247 ·J.II8 1,965,049,110
183 

AMEX L,678.47 ..5.59 NASDAQ 2,172.07 -6.17 NYSE 7:489.72 ~29.70 S&PSOO 1,218.59 -4.22 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 14,036.73 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5,460.90 +0.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) 
-3.08 -0.12 3.7 NASDAQ 110 TR (QQQQ) +0.02 +0.0 I 40.1 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.15 +0.0395 27.049 JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU) -5.49 -0.13 2.2 INTEL CP (INTC) +0.20 +0.05 24.5 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -1.43 -0.69 47.5' 10-YEAR NOTE -1.60 -0.74 45.6~ 5-YEARNOTE -1.47 -0.67 44.8 3-MONTH BILL +0.91 +0.35 38.6: 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.24 59.71 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) + 1.90 462.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.05 91.13 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
117.285 EURO 
0.848 POUND 
0.573 CANADIAN$ 
1.184 

IN BRIEF 
Greenspan warns of economic crisis 
WASIIINCTON-With just three months left hdore lw loaves office, Federal Heservn Chairman Alan Greenspan raised a warning to Congress: Tlw country could face "serious IH:o no 111 ic dis ru ptio ns" if bloated budget delkits are not curbed. 
Tho Fed chief's strong comments, made dur­ing an appoarance Thursday before Congress' .Joint l·:eonomie Committee, come after tho govornnwnt produced a $31 !J billion budgnt dolidt this year -an improvement from the record amount of rod ink registered in 2004 hut still tlw third-highest ddieit on record. 
In tho short term, costs related to rebuilding al'lor tho trio of dovastating hurricanes will make it harder to improve tho nation's bal­ance sheets. he acknowledged. In the long term, a hugo wave of retiring baby boomers will put massive strains on government resourcns, lw said. 
"There aro no nasy choicns. Easy choices are long go no," said Greenspan, whose 18-plus year run at the Fed comes to an 1111d on Jan. 
:n. 
Casino sale to boost Gary economy 
c;AHY, Ind. -Donald Trump's casino company said Friday it had aJ..rrned to sell il'i Lake Michigan riverboat and hotel to the owner of il'i dock-shar­ing compotitor in a $253 million d1~al. 
The sale of tho casino comes as Trump Ent1~rt.ainment Hesorl'i works on its reorganization aft1~r liling for bankruptey protection last year and just months alter it was forced to drop il'i plans to build a new casino in southern Indiana's Orange County. 
Tho casino's buy1~r is Las Vegas-based Tho Majostic Star CiL'iino LLC, which has a neighboring casino at c;ary. Tho two companies have a joint vnntun~ that owns the dock, ontrance pavilion and restaurant-; that thn two rivnrboal'i sharo. 
( ;ary Mayor Seott 1.. King said tho saln should bn a boon for the eity's hopes to redovolop tlw laknshorn to boost thn rngional economy, which indudn plans by Majnstie Star ownnr Donald Banhm to build a hold and eonvnntion center. 
"From thn city's pnrspectivn I think this is going to l'arilitatn tho broader lakefront dnvnlopnu~nt," King said in a phonn inter­vinw Friday. 
ENGLAND 

U.S. limits Chinese imports 
Trade agreement viewed as victory for American clothing and textile workers 
Associated Press 
LONDON -The U.S. and China signed a deal Tuesday limiting imports of Chinese dothing and tnxtile products into tho United States, ending throe months of negotiations over the thorny issue. 
U.S. Trade Representative Hob Portman and Chinese Commeren Minisll~r Bo Xilai both described thn deal as a "win-win" following a final round of talks here, but Bo Ialor added that it was a "far ery" from China's original expecta­tions. 
In the United States, groups representing cloth­ing and textile manufaetur­ors hailod the agroement while some rotailers nxpressnd disappointment that the annual increases wore not larger. 
The U.S. industry has bonn pushing for a deal to stem a flood of Chinese imports that began when global quotas worn lifted in January, and Tuesday's an noun eo men t sm IHllhs ovor the trade relationship between the two nations just ovor a week before President Bush visits China on a state visit. 

"We don't want to see such a small trade obstacle impede the overall trade and economic cooperation between the two countries," efits both countries," he their communities are big families: shirts, pants and Bo said through a transla­said. winners today. This bilater­underwear," said Laura E. tor after signing the agree­Jim Chesnut, chairman of al agreement represents a Jones, executive din~ctor or ment. the National Council of necessary and wnleome the U.S. Association of 
Portman said the deal -Textile Organizations, said step towards addressing Importers of Textiles and set to take effect Jan. 1 and the deal reassured China's unfair trade prac­Apparnl. cover 34 clothing and tex­Americans that China tices and highly disruptive Bo said the agn~1~nwnt tile categories induding 14 wouldn't be able to flood levels of trade." was concluded after "prac­considered the most sensi­the U.S. market in the next But representatives of tical and equal negotia­tive by the U.S. industry _ three years. American retailers tions" and provided a "pn~­was fair to both countries, "This agreement is a vic­expressed disappointment dktable and stable environ­and called it an illustration tory for hardworking U.S. with what they saw as mont" for the textile indus­of what "hard work" and textile workers," he said. overly restrictive limits on tries in both China and the "good faith" could accom­Auggie Tantillo, executive future imports. United States. plish. director of the American "Instead of terms that llowever, he also said thn 
"I believe this textile Trade Action Coalition, ensure that there is a true agreement would have a agreement is an example of another industry group n~p­transition to unrestricted much greater impact on how the United States and resenting textile and cloth­trade after 2008, the agree­China's 20 million textile China do have the ability to ing manufacturers, said, ment imposes tight quotas workers than thn several resolve tough trade dis­"U.S. textile and apparel on the products of greatest hundred thousand workers putes in a manner that ben-manufacturing workers and importance to American in the United States. 


Government aids prisoner re-entry 
Associated Press she said. That is defined as an adult entry initiative, which emerged from 
who has never been convicted of a the president's 2004 State of the 
WASHINGTON -The Labor violent or sex-related offense. Union address. The initiative aims not 
Department is awarding nearly $20 The department hopes to help some only to aid ex-prisoners lind employ­
million in grants to religious and com­6,250 released prisoners through the ment when they return to their com­
munity groups to help people released granL'i, Chao said. munities but also to help urban areas 
from prison find jobs and smoothly "When ex-offenders return to the that have largo numbers of returning 
make their way back into soeiety. community they need help," Chao ex-prisonors dna! with these chal­
Labor Secretary Elaine Chao said. "Faith-based organizations in lenges. 
announced the grants in an interview urban centers -because they are so Approximately 549 applications 
with The Associated Press on Tuesday. mueh part of the community -can be were submitted to the department for 
The money will go to 30 organizations of tremendous assistanee in reinte­a slice of the grants, whir.h total $1 <J.H 
to fund projects in 20 states. grating these ex-oiTenders back into million. Most grants w1~rn in tlw range 
"Everyone dnsnrves a second the community. What we hope will of around $(160,000 a piece. 
chance," Chao said in the interview. happen is that there will bn a holistic Hneipinnts inc.ludn: Mnt.ro United 
Job training and placement, rnentor­approach in helping these ex-oll"end­Methodist Urban Ministry in San 
ing and counseling are among the ers." Dingo, Calif .. $M15,1J35; Odyssey I louse 
types of services that the groups will The grants are being ol'fnred Louisiana, $hH4,250; and (;oodwill 
provide to "nonviolent" ex-oll'enders, through President Bush's prisoner re-Industries of San Antonio, $6(~:~.045. 
page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, November 9, 2005 
VENEZUELA 


Chavez claims 'knockout' 
American proposal ofFree Trade Area ofAmericas rejected at summit 
Associated Press largest oil and gas reserves. 
But while Chavez rattled 

ARACAS -Venezuelan some with his sharp com­President Hugo Chavez pro­ments about U.S. policies, it claimed a "knockout" victory was Brazilian President Luiz in the Summit of the Inacio Lula da Silva who qui­Americas after helping etly gained Bush's ear. In a thwart a U.S.-backed free friendly post-summit meet­trade zone, strengthening ing, Bush said he agreed his position as Latin with Silva that the U.S. America's most vocal rival of should aim to drop agricul-President Bush ture subsidies so and as a mav­it is easier for erick unafraid farmers in the of irritating his developing neighbors. "/ wouldnt say world to com­
The fiery pete.
Chavez emerges as
leader was The U.S. has buoyed by the a triumphant raised concerns emergence of a leader. You don't about the health 
five-nation bloc of Venezuelan
have a situation
opposed to the democracy
where Latin 
trade pact and under Chavez, was cheered by America is united but the thousands of Venezuelan
around Chavez. 
anti-Bush pro­leader insists he
Latin America is 
testers at the supports demo­summit in very much divided cratic principles. Argentina. now. Mexican 
But some say President it's too soon for Vicente Fox Chavez to Steve Ellner headed a camp declare victory, Venezuelan Eastern opposing Chavez 
and that while University political and was sharply 
he has begun to critical of all
science professor 
deliver on 
promises to 
s h a r e 
Venezuela's oil 
wealth with the poor at home and abroad, his heavy spending on handout pro­grams could leave him 
overextended. 
"Bush lost by total knock­out," Chavez said after the summit in Mar del Plata, calling the U.S.-proposed Free Trade Area of the Americas a "fallacy" designed to allow richer nations to exploit poorer ones. 
The United States argues the free trade zone would create jobs and build better lives for the region's poor. But Chavez proclaimed "the FTAA is dead," and emotions ran high as crowds of pro­testers clashed with riot police in the streets on Friday. 
Bush, unable to get the 34 nations to agree on reviving the stalled pact, left the negotiations early. Mocking Bush for leaving "with his tail between his legs," Chavez crowed to reporters that he was savoring the sweet "honey of victory." 
Not everyone agrees. 
"I wouldn't say Chavez emerges as a triumphant leader," said Steve Ellner, a professor of political science at Venezuela's Eastern University. "You don't have a situation where Latin America is united around Chavez. Latin America is very much divided now." 

Five nations opposed the free trade proposal: South America's two-largest economies, Brazil and Argentina, plus Uruguay, Paraguay and Venezuela, which has the continent's 
r------------------,

: VERA BRADI.~EY : 
1 20% off with ND/SMCStu.LD. 1 
I I 
: llJ;~ ~U ~U 
I 1 East Bank Emporium Remurant Bldg. 1 1 121 S. Niles Ave., (.574) 232-8488 1 
L------------------~ 
countries that 
did not want to 
JOin the free 

trade zone, call­ing for the 29 supporting nations to go ahead with talks without the dissenters. 
In Venezuela, Chavez points to his socialist "revo­lution" as the answer to decades of U .S.-style capital­ism that he says has caused widespread poverty. He has poured billions of petrodol­lars into infrastructure and social projects, including subsidized state-run food markets and cooperatives bringing thousands of jobs to the poor. 
Abroad, he has also begun sharing his country's oil wealth as he seeks to strengthen his political alliances. Under Chavez, Venezuela has begun ship­ping fuel to six Caribbean 
countries, including Jamaica, Cuba and Dominica, as part of a plan to supply oil under preferen­tial financing to 14 countries in the region. 
Oil-producing Trinidad and Tobago, however, has refused to sign on, saying joining would hurt its eco­nomic interests. 
Venezuela, the world's fifth-largest oil exporter, also has allowed Argentina to pay for oil with cattle and elevators. Cuba has sent thousands of doctors to treat Venezuela's poor for free. 
Venezuela is raking in the proceeds of high oil prices, with oil money going toward everything from a free uni­versity to adult education programs. 
Time will tell how the effort fares, Ellner said. 
"If that oil money were to dry up, if prices were to decline, I'm not saying that these policies would be fail­ures, but it would certainly limit the options," he said. 
Until Chavez's system is put to the test, he added, "the opposition can't say it's going to fail, the government can't say it's going to be a success." 
Chavez pledged $10 billion at the summit to fight hunger in Latin America, saying his policies aiming for regional "solidarity" are more just than "destructive" 
U.S. capitalism. 
But some critics argue that while Chavez is pledging help for other countries ­even promising cheaper heating oil to some poor U.S. communities -Venezuela still has many problems that need to be addressed. 
"I think the state of this country worsens every day," said John Alexander Cadadi, a street vendor. "It's full of garbage, there's a lot of crime and a lot of corruption in the government and police. It's all upside down -everything." 

JAPAN 

Whale hunt a part of controversial research 
Greenpeace, New Zealand speak out against Japanese work 
Associated Press 
TOKYO -A fleet of Japanese whaling ships left for the seas of Antarctica amid protests Tuesday, aiming to kill 850 minke whales -almost double last year's catch -and expand the hunt to fin whales for the first time. 
The expedition is the first under a six-year research whal­ing program launched earlier this year by the Tokyo-based Institute of Cetacean Research, fisheries ministry official Kenji Masuda said. Japan wrapped up an 18-year study of feeding and migratory habits in March, when the fleet returned from an Antarctic hunt with a haul of 440 minke. 
Their meat was sold to restaurants and food whole­salers. 
Greenpeace International called on Japan to cancel the latest hunt, calling it commer­cial whaling in disguise. 
The hunt, which is permitted as research under the rules of the International Whaling Commission, is expected to kill 850 minke whales and 10 fin whales, a rarer species. 
"In the last survey, we found the number of fin whales has been increasing, so we included them this time," Masuda said, adding that the fleet plans to expand the hunt again in 2007 to humpback whales. The cur­rent research program runs through 2011. 
Japan's research whaling pro­gram has for years been a divi­sive issue within the International Whaling Commission, which banned commercial whaling in 1986 but approved limited hunts for research purposes a year later. 
Japan maintains that whaling is a national tradition and a vital part of its food culture. It says whale stocks have suffi­ciently recovered since 1986 to allow the resumption of limited hunts of certain species. Research hunts, which end up killing the whales, are needed to establish reliable information on whale populations and habits, the government main­tains. 
Opponents say non-lethal means could be used and that the hunts differ little from com­mercial whaling because Japan sells the whale meat to restau­rants. Last spring's catch yield­ed 4.16 million pounds of meat and fetched $26.5 million, Masuda said. 
The proceeds fund further research, the government says. 
New Zealand Conservation Minister Chris Carter issued a statement Tuesday expressing alarm about Japan's expanded whale hunt, saying his country was working with other nations to address provisions in the international convention on whaling regulations that make scientific whaling legal but "are out of step with modern conser­vation approaches." 
"Hunting whales is like hunt­ing tigers (or) gorillas. New Zealanders regard it as unjusti­fiable," Carter said. 
The current fleet of six ships left the western port of Shimonoseki led by the 8,030 ton Nisshin Maru, and is to return in mid-April. 
Tokyo has repeatedly failed to muster the three-fourths major­ity of International Whaling Commission member nations needed to overturn the com­mercial whaling ban. Each-year, Japan also kills another 210 whales -100 minke whales, 50 Bryde's whales, 50 sei whales and 10 sperm whales-during a similar research expedition in the northwestern Pacific. 
Norway is the only country that hunts whales for profit. Iceland, like Japan, kills them for research in hunts sanctioned by the International Whaling Commission. The United States and other nations opposed to whaling have said there is no scientific basis for the research. 


Wednesday, November 9, 2005 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Detnocrats lead in governor races 

AP VIrginia Lt. Gov. and democratic gubernatorial candidate Tim Kaine, center, and his wife, Anne Holton, talk with neighbor John Knapp after visiting the polls in Richmond, Va. Tuesday. 
Associated Press 
Dmnocrat l.t. Gov. Tim Kaine clung to a steady lead over Hepuhlican .Jerry Kilgore Tuesday in the race for Virginia govnrrwr, while early rnt.urns in N~~ w .I e rsey 's gu berna tori al race showed Democratic Sen. 
.Jon  Corzine  ahead  of  
Hepublkan Doug Forrester.  
Kairw had 6XO,I2!i votes,  or  

!i 1.7 percnnl. to Kilgore's h0h,06 7 votes, or 46.1 percent, with two-thirds of precincts eountNI. 
With 12 percent of precincts reporting in Nnw Jersey, Corzirw IPd with 144.271 votes, or 52 pnrcnnl. to Forrester's t2:{,1J1J!i votes, or 44.7 percent. 
Both gubernatorial races saw rneflrd-hmaking, mean-spirited campaigns, and worn closely watdwd by political analysts for signs of' tho public's mood ahead of next year's midterm elections. Elsewhere, New York and a few other major cities seleeted mayors. 
Statewide ballot refnrendums put gay rights before the voters in Maine and Texas, while sev­eral government-overhaul measures on the ballot in California were seen as a refer­endum on GOP Gov. Arnold Schwarzeneggcr, who cam­paigned hard for them. 
Both Nnw Jersey and Virginia saw races for governor marked by nasty personal attacks. One ad in Virginia charged that one candidate would not have sup­ported the death penalty for Adolf Hitler; another in New .Jersey quoted a candidate's ex­wife as saying he would bntray the state. 
In New Jersey, Democratic Snn. Jon Corzine and Hepublican businessman Doug Forrester spent upward of $70 million on the governor's race. Acting Gov. Richard Codey assumed the office last year when Gov. Jim McGreevey, a Democrat, resigned over a homosexual affair, but Codey dneidod not to run. 
In Virginia, at least $42 mil­lion was spent in the contest between Kaine and Kilgore, the former state attorney general. Demoeratie Gov. Mark Warner cannot seek a second term. 
Votnrs also picked mayors in Nnw York, Detroit, Houston, San Diogo and Atlanta. 
The vitriol in the gubernatori­al campaigns left voters weary. 
"You turn on the TV and there's nothing but negative ads on. I can see why people get frustrated with that," business­man Nick Husso said in Hidgewood, N.J. "It just turns you off." 

Wednesday, November 9th 
THEOLOGY ON TAP 
presents 





Catholic Q&A 

Suspect recognized on security videos 
Associated Press 
SAHASOTA, Fla. -A busi­ness partner, room male and othnr acquaintances of a man accused of raping and strangling an 11-ynar-old girl lestil'iod Tuesday that they recognized him in images captured by a secu­rity camera. 
The suspect in the imagns had Joseph Smith's gait and wore a uniform like the on1~ worn at the garage they operated together, said tlw business partner, Ed Dinyes. In tho tape, the suspect is seen taking the girl away by the arm. 
"That is Joe? What ... is he doing there?" said Dinyes, recounting his reac­tion after seeing the images in February 2004. "I could­n't believe that this is the guy I know." 
Smith, a 39-year-old for­mer auto mechanic and father of throe daugh tnrs, is charged with first-degree murder, kidnapping and capital sexual battery in the death of Carlie Brueia. lin pleaded not guilty. If' con­victed, he may face the death penalty. 
Besides the videotapn, prosecutors have said they have DNA evidence linking Smith to the crime and clothing fibers belonging to Carlie that were found in a ear used by Smith. The defense says the evidence is inconclusive and other sus­peels weren't properly investigated. 
Dinyes said his wife was the first to recognize Smith in the images broadcast just a few days after Carlin dis­appeared from the parking 

lot of a ear wash. Slw wokP her husband, told him to 
w a t e h  t lw  t nI e v i s i o n  a n d  
urged him  to call authori­ 
ties.  

After his wifn lel't for work. Dinyns reportPd his suspieions to a po li1:n hot linn recording, hut tlwn called IJ II because hn f1dt . "it was vital that I gel a hold of' someonn," he said. 
Haskell Clemons, who managed a lire shop when~ Smith worknd occasionally, and Jeff Pincus, Smith's roommate, also testified that they recognized Smith from his posture and walk. 
Clemons and the Dinyes told jurors that Smith had gained weight and changed haircuts since the images were taken. 
Pincus said he loaned Smith his station wagon tho afternoon of' Carlin's disap­pearance, believing it would be returned in a few min­utes. But Smith didn't return the ear until the next morning and had addnd more than 300 miles to tho odometer. Smith lef't wear­ing a mechani<:'s uniform but returned in a grnnn sweat shirt, Pincus addPd. 
During cross examination, Pincus acknowledged that in a dP.position lw had con­fused tho days when hn loaned Smith the station wagon. 
Detective Toby Davis testi­fied that he interviewed Smith at his home, searclwd his bedroom and found meehanie's uniforms. Davis showed Smith a still photo taken from tlw security eamera imagos, and Smith said, '"That looks like me, but it's not me,"' he said. 
Bankruptcy Liquidation Sale! 
300 S. St. Louis Blvd., Ste. 200, South Bend. 
Nov. 8th-Nov. 11th, open 10am to 5:30pm daily Terms of sale CASH, credit cards. NO CHECKS All items sold "AS IS". Computers with 21" monitors, Fax machines, copiers, scanners, ID card maker, printers, Bifone phone system, Plantronic headsets and Misc. items. 

i!lMl ~ ~c9loo~c1lmi}~ ~, lB©lffll©llu® lBIJlllflff!~®~ 
Present this Ad for 

$4 Burritos ALL DAY 
(11 am-midnight) 
Now open on Sundays from 2pm-1 Opm 
1724 N. Ironwood Dr. 
(next to Nick's Patio) 
Want to write for News? Calll-5323. 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, November 9, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
'Different, better and stronger' 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEf Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR · BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDimR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROUER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 63!-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.J@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presem the views ofrhe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conracr information. 
Qz=tions regarding Observerpolides should be directed to Editor in Chief Claire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The OhbCrvcr {USPS 5991-4000) is published Mon~y through Frid.1y ex<ept during ~:Urn and vacouion periods. A subscrip1ion ro TI1c Obsaver is $100 for one ;~:caJcmic year; S55 fur one scmesrcr. 
The Ob~rvcr is publi\hc:d at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dinin~ Hall Send address correcciuns to: Notre Dame, IN 46)56-0779 The Observer Pcriodic.tl posntgc paid :u Norn: Damt P.O.ilo< 779 and add•tiunal mailing offiC¢S. 024 Sourh Dinmg Hall 
Notre Dame. IN 4:65%-0n9 
The Ob~rvcr i~ ,, m~mher ofthe.A!o!>ndll.tcd Pr~. All reproduction right~ are roc:rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Kate Antonacci Kate Gales Lisa Schultz Jack Thornton Kaitlynn Riely Jay Fitzpatrick Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Brian Doxtader Brauweiler Illustrator Graphics Meg Dwyer Kelly MacDonald 
This is a column about torture,-and in particular the torture that has been practiced by all branches of the U.S. military and by the CIA for the past sev­eral years, and which is only now (long after it first came to light) getting the media attention it deserves. There is a vast amount of docu­mentary evidence on the subject, thou­sands of pages in lurid detail, and most of it can speak for itself. 
Typically I devote a great deal of time to carefully developing rhetorical argu­ments. For this piece I have abandoned that style, because in the face of the evidence and the nature of the crimes, each of us knows that tor­ture is wrong, even those who support its use against our enemies. What the proponents of torture believe is that is it is necessary to defend our freedom. What I propose to you, and what I feel the selections below indicate, is that the existence of torture in a free society. for any reason, is inherently inconsistent, and indeed a far greater threat to everything we believe in than all the terrorists in the world put together. 
Senator John McCain to the U.S. Senate: "I have been asked before where did the brave men I was privi­leged to serve with in Vietnam draw the strength to resist ... Our enemies dido 't adhere to the Geneva Convention. Many of my comrades were subjected to very cruel, very inhumane and degrading treatment, a few of them even unto death. But every one of us knew, every single one of us knew and took great strength from the belief that we were different from our enemies, that we were better than them, that we, if the 

Lance Gallop 
Tidewater Blues 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

It's our backyard, too 
In response to Professor Ed Manier's Oct. 31 letter "Not 
In My Backyard," I would like to make a few points. First, the "student body sycophant" he cites is the first student body president in many years to recognize that the relationship between Notre Dame and the community of South Bend warrants careful attention and improvement. He has taken action, forming the Committee on Community Relations in the Student Senate, organizing an off-campus seminar and has frequently met with city leaders to address the issue. The only things that Dave Baron panders to are the best inter­ests of Notre Dame. Second, muscling through an ordi­
nance that specifically targets students 
at a time when students are not ade­
quately represented docs not help to 
improve community relations. Promising that 
the ordinance will not be enforced unless neigh­

bors complain and then breaking that promise does not 
OBSERVER POLL 
What do you think of Notre 

Submit aLetter
Dame's disciplinary policies? 

'to the Editor at 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

11 www.ndsmcobserver.com, 
roles were reversed, would not disgrace ourselves by committing or countenanc­ing such mistreatment of them. That faith was indispensable not only to our survival, but to our attempts to return home with honor." 
Official council of Assistant Attorney General JayS. Bybee: "Any effort to apply Section 2340A [which incorpo­rates the Convention Against Torture into U.S. law] in a manner that inter­feres with the President's direction of such core war matters as detention and interrogation of enemy combatants thus would be unconstitutional." 
(Reportedly another Justice Department memo, still classified, goes so far as to claim that Congress has no constitutional authority to interfere with the President's powers as Commander­in-Chief. Since then the United States has opened several interrogation camps in such freedom-friendly nations as Thailand and Russia. Twenty-eight detainees have been tortured to death.) 
Official testimony of a detainee at Abu Ghraib, Iraq: "They stripped me naked, they asked me, 'Do you pray to Allah?' I said, 'Yes.' They said 'Fuck you' and 'Fuck him.' Someone else asked me 'Do you believe in anything?' I said to him, 'I believe in Allah.' So he said, 'But I believe in torture and I will torture you."' 
(It is worth noting that, according to official documents, as many as 90 per­cent of the detainees at Abu Ghraib are innocent civilians collected through ran­dom and poorly organized night sweeps of the Iraqi countryside. If the war in Iraq and the war against terrorism are propaganda wars, then the actions at Abu Ghraib are simply incompetent.) 
From the official investigation of Abu Ghraib: "On another occasion DETAINEE-07 was forced to lie down while M.P.s jumped onto his back and legs. He was beaten with a broom and a chemical light was broken and poured 
help to improve community relations. Community rela­tions is not just a Notre Dame issue; it's a South Bend issue, too. We have to address it together, not in the summer when the other half isn't here. Third, the punitive measures taken against first-time violators of the ordi­
nance are unreasonable and extreme. Underage alcohol eonsumption is ille­gal, and a reasonable person expects some punitive actions if he knowing­ly breaks the law. Eviction, howev­er, is extreme punishment for a first-time misdemeanor offender. We cannot begin to improve commu­nity relations until both Notrn Dame students and South Bend residents realize together that the ordinance docs not in fact support that end. 
Patrick Knapp junior Zahrn House Senator Nov. 8 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Everything has been figured out, except how to live. " 
Jean-Paul Sartre French philosopher 

over his body ... During this abuse a police stick was used to sodomize DETAINEE-07 and two female M.P.s were hitting him, throwing a ball at his penis and taking photographs." 
Senator John McCain to the U.S. Senate: "[W]e are obliged to make clear to [our solders] ... that they arc always, always-through the violence, chaos and heartache of war, through depriva­tion and cruelty and loss -they are always, always Americans, and differ­ent, better and stronger than those who would destroy us." 
Anthony Lagouranis, former Army specialist: "I think our policies required abuse. There were freaking horrible things people were doing. I saw [detainees! who had feet smashed with hammers. One detainee told me he was forced by Marines to sit on an exhaust pipe, and he had a softball-sized blister to prove it. The stufl' I did was mainly torture lite: sleep deprivation, isolation, stress positions, hypothermia. We used dogs." 
Excerpt from II.H. 2863, approved by the Senate 90 to 9 and currently in Joint Committee: "No individual in the custody or under the physical control of the United States Government, regard­less of nationality or physical location, shall be subject to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment [as defined by 5th, 8th and 14th Amendments!." 
(The Bush administration strongly opposes this legislation.) 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate of Notre Dame. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be contacted at comments@tidewaterblues.com. In particular he would like comments on the experimental format used in this column. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Wednesday, November 9, 2005 page 11 
LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
The crack in the case 
Joey Falco's Nov. 7 article "Beating about his life as a prosecutor, is accus­(around the) Bush" is a case in point of ing Delay of conspiracy to break a law why the American Lef't continues to slip that wasn't even on the books, and further away from the mainstream. llis wouldn't be for another two years. article is simply a restatement of the Ronnie Earle knew his indictment Democrat talking points since Katrina, would force Delay to step down in the and though he paints a beautiful pic­House, and would also serve as a great ture of what the liberal democrats and ending for his political smut lilm. thn media wish, hope and dream will As for the Scooter Libby "crack," he lw true, il contains very few actual was indicted for making a false state­facts. ment, not for outing a covert CIA 
Falco's first supposed crack in Bush's agent. Falco dismisses the fact that "glass case of composure" was hurri­Valerie Plame had not been undercover cane Katrina. New Orleans, a for over five years as well as the fact Democrat-controlled city, failed to that she sent her husband, Joe Wilson, evacuate its people and failed to accept to Niger to investigate WMDs. lie also federal aid prior to the storm. Mayor fails to mention that Wilson never filed Hay "school bus" Nagin failed to mobi­an official report on his findings in lize hundreds of school buses that were Niger or that Wilson himself helped in at his disposal to hnlp evacuate his city. the "outing" of himself and his wife by Democratic governor Kathleen Blanco, approaching the news media. prior to Katrina. turned down the help Bush was eriticized for not preparing of the fndnral government when Bush well enough for Katrina, and with the oiTered it. It was recently discovered Bird Flu wreaking havoc throughout that millions of dollars that had been the world, Falco now criticizes Bush givnn to Nnw Orleans to improve the for preparing too soon. The left and known problnms with the levee system people like Joey Falco read the news wnrn divertnd to other projeets. The and feel that there is some sort of con­media reportml rapns and killings in servative crackup occurring. They see tho Supnrdorne and deseribed the eity the hope for their struggling democrat­as a "Toxk Soup" that would never be ic party to finally regain the eontrol n~built, none of' which was accurate. It that had been "stolen" from them by was all part of a liberal vision of what the corrupt Bush administration. What thny hopnd to be true. It's absurd to they don't see is that all of Falco's think the president hoped for hurri­"cracks" have actually revitalized the canes in order to bolster his brother's resolve of the Republican Party. Time reputation, but the liberal media and will show that this will be the begin­leaders wished for a disaster so that ning of a conservative crackdown. It is they could blame it all on Bush. obvious that the dreams of the left, the 
Another "crack" was the indictment media and Falco will not be coming of Torn Delay. Falco fails to mention true, and they will soon wake only to that the prosecutor, Ronnie Earle, who find themselves looking at their reflec­indicted DeLay, had to go to three dif­tions through the shards of their own ferent grand juries before he found the cracked case. only one that would indict (one which had been sworn in just hours earlier). Chris Reintjes And what are they indicting Delay for, senior. you might ask? Ronnie Earle. who at off-campus this very moment is making a movie Nov. 7 
Estimate of deaths low 
Ryan Crane unfortunately misrepre­that the number is lower than 65,000, sents statistics in his Nov. 7 letter to and a 20 percent chance it's higher the editor (ironically) entitled than 147,000 {thus a 60 percent "Misleading Statistics." Crane insists chance the number is between 65,000 that The Lancet article, which esti­and 147,000). mates that between March 2003 and Many refer to the lower number of September 2004 the U.S.-lead innocent Iraqi dead (currently around Coalition caused 98,000 excess Iraqi 30,000, but around 15,000 at the time deaths, is "easily debunked" due to "a ThH Lancet articiH eame out a year confidence interval so large as to be ago) at The Iraq Body Count website, almost statistically meaningless." In which is based on the work of Mare fact, The Lancet estimate is probably Herold, an economist from the quite low because it excluded data University of New Hampshire. llerold from hot spots like Fallujah (not to says his numbnr is probably very low mention the number of deaths since because it comes only from deaths September 2004). direetly caused by the U.S. Coalition 
Crane misleads the reader about that are reported by at least two dif­how a "confidence interval" {Cl) works ferent news organizations. So indi­in statistics. Crane makes the false rectly caused deaths (e.g., deaths due presumption that a 95 percent Cl of to the anarchy following the war) and 8000-194,000 means that the number deaths not reported by at least two of deaths are just as likely to be any media sources are not eountml. number between 8000 and 194,000. If According to The Lancet, the risk of this false presumption about Cl were death from violenee in the period after true, then The Lancet estimate would the invasion was 58 times higher (95 indeed be meaningless (as well as percent CI8.1.419) than in the pnriod some of Crane's own stats about before the war. Note that there is only Kurds killed by Saddam, not to men­a 2.5 percent chance that the risk of tion the deaths from the Dee. 2004 death from violenee is less than 1-1.1 tsunami, etc.). times higher than it was bnl'ore. 
However, the numbers in the middle Americans need to face the faet that of the Cl are statistically more likely to our military kills a large numbt~r of be more accurate than the numbers innocent people. Many more have closer to either extreme. The stats are died since The Lancet article was pub­something like this: lished a year ago. We need to take an 
(i) 
There is a 2.5 percent chance unbiased look at all the numbers in that the number is lower than 8000, context. We need to admit to the reali­and a 2.5 percent chance it's higher ty of a war that we had overwhelm­than 194,000 (2.5 percent+ 2.5 per­ingly supported. Only then can we cent = 5 percent, thus the 95 percent even hope to have the knowledge and chance the number is between 8000 self-knowledge to make mature, and 194,000). informed decisions about when and 

(ii) 
There is a 10 percent chance how to use &he most powerful military that the number is lower than 45,000, in the world. and a 10 percent chance it's higher than 167,000 (thus a 80 percent Sean Walsh chance the number is between 45,000 graduate srudenr and 167,000). philosophy 


(iii) There is a 20 percent chance Nov. 7 
Content of comic is questionable 
I am amazed that, given the prominence of The Observer reeently, people haven't noticed the comics offered on the last page. Hecently, I have found that .Jockular is particularly offensive to both myself and those with whom I work. Kimberly Baker submitted a let­tnr [Nov. II about its position on women. Not only have I taken offense at those eomics, I have also taken offense at Monday's eornic about the white erosses. 
Alnc White, a junior, and Erik Powers, a senior, were both students last year during the outrage that ensued following the destruetion of the crosses. I fail to see how a comie depieting the burning of the crosses (misinter­preted as "T"s) and the tasteless remark "I think the Keebler Elves have joined the Klan!" can be funny. Abortion, as is evident, is a very sensitive issue, and race relations. as is also evident, is not much "safer" for the eontent of a comic strip. As a Catholic, I was offended by the lack of respect given to the cross, and as a human being I was offended by the lack of respect for a differing view on an issue so serious as abortion. Furthermore, I am amazed that a newspaper serving a Catholic commu­nity would publish a comic such as Jockular, especially as humor, beeause of its morally questionable eontent. I am also surprised that the artists, despite outcry by mem­bers of the community, have continued to produce base­less comics that are, at best, ill-suited for print media, and (sometimes) offensive. Never before have I seen faith taken so lightly. Maybe it is a lesson that the authors need to learn bdore taking another entertainment posi­tion. 
Dustin VanHandorf junior Stanford Hall Nov. 8 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


. -­

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.. THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, November 9, 2005 
DVD REVIEW 

'Land of the Dead' better suited for fans 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
A~sistanr Scene Editor 

"Land of the Dead" establishes its unique identity by building off of a cine­matic heritage that spans nearly half a century. 
While it is a splendid palimpsest for a very select crowd, watching it with no knowledge of its predecessors leaves the average viewer in the dark. This is prob­lematic for most viewers, which is why "Land of the Dead" is better suited for fans of its predecessors and genre afi­cionados than most general audiences. 
In the original, due to unknown reasons, the bodies of the recently deceased began to rise up and attack the living. The mili­tary and society at-large proved incapable of dealing with the situation. To make matters worse, the animated dead appeared to get smarter as the living.civi­lization declined. 
This leads into the fourth of George Homero's "Dead" series, "Land of the Dead." Civilization at large has fallen, 

The emphasis on the corrupt having power and critical looks on society at large would appear to be more appropri­ate in a non-horror movie. But Romero pulls it off admirably, pulling "Land" out of the standard mire of Hollywood horror. 
Horror junkies will fmd plenty to like in the movie. The gore is abundant, as bites, headshots and explosions run rampant. The unrated version is one of the gorier films to in recent memory, though an R­rated version is also available. 
The special features are great for long­time fans and newcomers alike. The DVD goes into great detail how the special effects were done, some of which are quite visually impressive. There are also some fan service features, as it shows where the zombie-parody "Shaun of the Dead" actors made cameos. 
As good as "Land of the Dead" is, it is not for everyone. It's aimed at a niche audience, and those within the niche will love the movie. And while it's recom­mended that those not in the audience learn more about this particular niche, this movie is not the best place to start. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

MOVIE REVIEW 

Mendes' 'Jarhead' only a half-full Gulf War drama 
will potential bullet in that time. 
Jarhead

"Jarhead" fans be While "Jarhead" disappointed by a may be termed a film that does not )~;~ war movie, it is 
. '···~

live up to its lofty .· .': ... really a character
•••~ 
expectations. drama set in a war.
Director: Sam Mendes
"Jarhead" is a film The movie does not
Writer: William Broyles Jr. 
recounting the preach thfl pros or
Starring: Jake Gyllenhaal, Jamie Foxx,
memoirs of Corporal cons of the Gulf
Peter Sarsgaard and Chris Cooper
Anthony "Swoff" War or the current 
Marines are shipped off to Iraq and placed under the watchful eye of Lt. Col. Kazinski (Chris Cooper, "American Beauty"), the action seems ready to start. 
But the only problem is that there is no action. 
The Marines spend their time in the desert talking, drinking water, thinking about wives and girlfriends back home, shooting at sand dunes, playing football and preparing for an enemy just over the horizon. When the men actually engage in the war, there is no enemy or battle, just a lot of walking. When the war ends and he returns home, Swofford narrates his war lasted four days, four hours and one minute, and he did not fire a single 
By SEAN SWEANY 
Scene Critic 

"You will train. You will hydrate. And you will maintain a constant state of sus­picious alertness." 
Do it all, Sam Mendes fans. 

While these words are directed at Marines in the Gulf War movie "Jarhead," they equally apply to audiences eagerly anticipating this recent directing effort of the Academy Award-winning Mendes ("American Beauty," "Hoad to Perdition"). 
Just as the Marines' preparations were mostly useless --since the war did not happen as the sol­diers expected --so leaving only isolated pockets of humanity. The city of Fiddler's Green is one such pocket and is depicted as possibly the final remaining US city populated by the living. 
Lacking the means to support itself, the city's corrupt government --led by the slimy Kaufman (Dennis I lop per) --sends out raiding parties to collect supplies from neighboring areas. But departing from the city for supplies is not a pleasant job, and certain members of the crew yearn for a better life. 
The corrupt raider Cholo (John Leguizamo) dreams of joining the rest of the social elite in Fiddler's Green tower. Another Raider, Riley (Simon Baker) has different aspirations. He wishes to leave the corrupt society and make his own way through the "wild." Both characters are well developed and play wonderfully into various forms of interpretation. 
Running counter to the aspirations of these two individuals is the smart zombie Big Daddy (Eugene Clark). After witness­ing a raid on his town, he chases after the crew with an ever-increasing zombie horde, which leads to a climactic show­
down with the corrupt, the innocent and the dead. 
"Land" is a worthy addi­tion to the series, as it con­tinues everything that made the previous ones memorable. The satirical look at consumerism from "Dawn of the Dead" is back, as well as several other themes that a Romero fan would notice immediately. 

Swofford (Jake Gyllenhaal, "D(mnie Darko"), who served as a Marine during the Gulf War. As a 20 year-old who enlisted in the Marines rather than flunk out of college, Swofford was a soldier filled with questions and anger about his role in Operation Desert Shield in 1990. 
After an opening scene reminiscent of Stanley Kubrick's "Full Metal Jacket" (1987), the film continues with any fur­ther allusions to previous war movies and sets its own tone. Staff Sgt. Sykes (Jamie Foxx, "Ray"). a tough, no-nonsense, insightful platoon leader, sets the tone. He leads the sniper Swofford, his partner Troy (Peter Sarsgaard, "Flightplan") and other stock characters. And when the 
situation in Iraq. One scene features a character ranting about the politics of the situation until he is cut off by another soldier who tells him that nothing matters except the fact that they are there. 
Essentially, this is a film about bore­dom. Thousands of soldiers were placed in the desert with nothing to do, and "Jarhead" graphically portrays how many of them became insane from the boredom. The film avoids being com­pletely boring itself, but at the same time it fails to stimulate viewers into feeling strongly in any direction. 
The sad part about this seeming apathy is that the rest of the film is very well done. Gyllenhaal shows he is one of the top young actors in Hollywood, while Foxx backs up his award winning per­formance in "Ray" with another phenom­enal effort. The rest of the cast, especially Sarsgaard and Cooper, also give stunning supporting performances. 


Mendes directs the talent well. His imagery and cinematography --especial­ly when the oil fields are burning and raining oil on the soldiers -make the movie visually breathtaking. 
The film is even written well, but there is just not enough writing to fill the jar of "Jarhead." There are certain scenes that scream for more attention and exposi­tion, only to be abruptly eut short before any substantial significance can be rea­soned. 
The agonizing part about "Jarhead" is that the weak story is the only thing that keeps this film from being in the pan­theon of war films. As it is, "Jarhead" ends up being a technically flawless film that still leaves viewers confused and wanting much more as the end credits roll. 
Contact Sean Sweany at ssweany@nd.edu 

r-------------------------------------------~------------------------------~-----------------------------~-~ 


NBA Live 2006 contains features including a three-point contest, slam-dunk contest and All-Star game. There are also Dynasty and Season modes. 
VIDEO GAME REVIEW 
By CHRIS MCGRADY and TAE 
ANDREWS 
Su:nt· Cri tin. 
Chris: With lwadlining <u:l'i such as FIFA 200(,, NFI. 2006 and NCAA Football 2006, I·:A Sports has nf'f'nctively built the gold standard l'or sports-rnlatnd video games. And in tho world of' basketball arcade nntnrtainment. NBA Live 20()(, is a slam­dunk. 
Tlw garrw's nurrwrous nnw l't1atures (son the now l'laymakor eontroll mmplnmnnt nicnly with tlw improvnd graphics and nmtrollability of' the players. Although (H'rhaps rnmovml from nmlity a bit (i.e. Carnwlo Anthony or Manu Ginobli rou­tinely dropping hO points in a game), tho ability to personalize your playing style is a hug«~ stop up. 
Tho prnvious vorsion of' tho game had snw~ral f(~aturns that could turn a nasty hallor into a wnnpy bawler. In the old ver­sion. certain moves in the game were noarly impossibln to nxecutn. 
(;onn are the days of' thn inability to per­form even a simple "pro-hop," which promptnd the renaming of the button that produced such a movn to the "turn over button" among many avid NBA Live play­ors. Ushered in is a new era of behind­tlw-back passes and tomahawk jams. With tlw new take, video garners are given a virtual arsenal of em1ctive drive, dunk. dish, dip and dodge abilities that will have even the most experienced of play<~rs salivating. 
Aside from rngular game play, there are numerous extra features that enhance the overall experionce of the game. The first of these is th!l All-Star Weekend, which indudns the 3-point eompntition, tho Dunk eontost and the All-Star Game. 
Need help working on your outside stroke? Well. the 3-point feature is baek and bt~tter than ever. Don't like the view you're getting from your shooter? Feel frnt~ to ehango thn eamera angle without leaving the game. The 3-point competition 
NBA Live 2006 

PS2, XBox, Gamecube 
EA Sports 
will let oven the most un-athletic of eoach potatoes "make it rain" alongside the likes of Kyle Korver and Michael Rndd. 
The dunk competition makes the game enter a new realm of fantasy rivaled only by the bullet-time bonanza found in "The Matrix." There is such a thing as hang­time, but the way LeBron James hangs in the air makes the gamer start looking for wires attached to his back. Despite this stunning visual aspect, the competition takes on a near-ludierous level when King James tosses the ball off the shot-clock, does a forward handspring and then dunks the ball with his arm covering his eyes. 
Stupid? Yes. Entertaining? Definitely. 
The dunk competition's perverse usc of fake abilities makes the most unrealistic facet of the game one of the most fun. 
Want to prove that Charlie Weis isn't the only guy out there who can put the "nasty" back in "dynasty?" Look no fur­ther than NBA Live's Dynasty Mode. 
Are you a fan of the championship­thirsty Clippers or the toothless Toronto Haptors'! Well, fear no longer. You don't 
have to wait until next year's draft to watch your team rebuild, as you can trade and sign players en­route to the championship faster than you can say Grng Popovich. 
Don't feel like playing an entire season just to pull a "Denver Nuggets" and run into a brick wall in the first round of the playofi's? That's line, too. Just use the simulation feature and you can skip more games than Hon Artest, and you don't even have to punch anyone to do it. 

Overall, the game is a worthy, enjoyable and entertaining take on professional bas­ketball and is an enticing time to the Marcus Camby in all of us. 
Tae: The evolution of a perennial sports title is a continually changing process. Game creators use fan input to determine what facets of a game work and which aspects aren't working. Then they seek to modify and improve upon delieiencies in the overall gaming experience. 
The latest reincarnation of Live is defi­nitely a step up from last year's title, but it fails to be an entirely successful renais­sance since some areas still require improvement. 
Last year's version of the game placed more of an emphasis on the use of power forwards and centers to dominate the interior underneath the hoop. But this was met with a negative reaction from Live players skk of driving to the basket in search of a jamboree, only to lind they had mistakenly been invited to a block party. 
In other words, it was too easy for shot­blocking big men to mercilessly swat would-be drives to the rim. Fear not, fel­low Livers, for this year's game is much more guard-intensive. 
An effective mid-range jumper game combines with a new relative ease in fin­ishing around the basket to make the 2006 version the Year of tho Guard, as opposed to 2005, which was delinitnly the Year of tho Forward. 
By far thn best aspect of this year's ganw is its nnw Freestyle feature. Th«> 200(, rnincarnation of NBA Livo oll't~rs a nnw twist: hold 1.1 and tlwn hit any of th11 four buttons on tlw right. side of tlw con­troller (triangle, eirdt~. squan~. or X). 
In turn, this will enable tho player to. in the words of rapper Bun B. "go hard through the paint likt~ Carnwlo." Difrt~rnnt options are availabln for difl'nrent kinds of' Freesl.yling, allowing you to "ha.vn it your way" through a variety of customization options that nvnn Burgnr King cannot match. 
For example, using tlw l'laymaknr Fronstyle limturo with a llashy point guard will allow the player to sort through a nas­tier palette of dishes than one can lind while scrubbing platns on tho dishline of North Dining hall. Frnnstyling with a seor­er such as the Spurs' Manu Ginobili pro­vides you with a varinty of creative finish­es at the basket, allowing you to makn likn breaded chicken and shake and bake your way to the rack. 
Similarly, using Freestyle with a high­flyer such as Dwanye Wade will enable the player to defy the law of gravity on route to a series of high-llying aerial slam dunks. With more no-look passes and ankle-breaking dribble moves, the new and improved Frcnstyle feature is no doubt the most fun new part of the game. 
But what makes the 2006 version so much fun -increased creativity in scor­ing-is also the game's biggest flaw. The influx of myriad new offensive weapons makes scoring in Live '06 too easy. It's fairly routine to raek up ludierous point totals of 40 or 50 points with a single play­er. 
The game overall sufl'ers from a laek of realism. The experinnee overall definitely smacks more of the arcade than of the hardwood. 
EA SporL<;' tagline is, "If it's in the game, it's in the game" as a testament to the realistic nature of its games. NBA Live 2006's mantra should be, "If it happens on SportsCenter's top 10, it happens a lot in the game." 
J\lso, by performing broathtaking movns ad nauseum with but the slightest elli1rt, thny losP som11 of their oxdtnment. 
But despite its llaws. NBA Live 2006 is a fun way to get your hoop on and settle some of that preseason trash-talking you'vn had with your roommatn by going Manu y Manu on thn Playstation 2. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl@nd.edu and Tae Andrews at tandrews I @nd.edu 
courtesy Photo courtesy 
NBA Live 2006 has more gameplay balance than its predecessor, as players are now able to drive to the paint more easily and use their guards more effectively. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, November 9, 2005 
DPAC SPOTLIGHTS 

George Lucas' first film coming to DPAC 
By MARTY SCHROEDER Scene Critic 

When released in 1971, George Lucas' "THX 1138" was light-years ahead of any American film at the time. It came during a period when the old studio system of Hollywood was failing and the new generation of young, adventurous filmmakers was taking over. 
Names like Scorsese, Coppola, Spielberg and Lucas were just begin­ning to be 
hardships as they fight the "Big Brother," which is present everywhere in the guise of the mechanical police­men and cameras that patrol all levels of society. THX 1138 becomes increas­ingly resolved in his plan to escape throughout the film, especially when he meets society's outcasts in a permanent hold for the people who choose not to conform to Big Brother's standards. 
The story of this film is constructed well -the script was co-written by Lucas and sound designer Walter Murch. But the visuals make this film 
stand out. 

passed around The design of this
TIIX 1138
in film circles, film is George Lucas and it was this 
at his best. The film -the first futuristic city is to come out of devoid of color, as Francis Ford are the ubiquitous Coppola's pro­white jumpsuits that
When: Thursday at 7 pm
duction compa­the citizens wear. At
Where: Browning Cinema, DPAC
ny American times, this creates 

Zoetrope that put these new filmmakers on the map. 
Directed by Lucas and produced by Coppola, "THX 1138" follows a man liv­ing in a future that has outlawed emo­tion, sex and even love. Robert Duvall plays the character named THX 1138, a factory worker who makes the robotic policemen that oversee the film's futur­istic society. His living partner, LUH 3417 (Maggie McOmie), alters his drug regimen and THX 1138 begins to feel emotion. 
Eventually he and LUH 3417, who fall in love, plot an escape. They suffer 
the very unusual effect of floating heads as the white uni­forms blend in with the white walls of the city. 
The police are mechanical but pos­sess a human quality that is very unnerving. These robots also posses a single-mindedness that makes them the perfect law enforcement. The casting choices, which feature mostly Caucasians, compound the oneness and lack of individuality of the society pre­sented. 
"THX 1138" was highly influenced by the French New Wave directors such as Godard and Truffaut. They fascinated 

Browning to screen Kubrick's 1968 sci-fi masterpiece 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Assistant Scene Editor 

If told today that a renowned director was attempting a 140-minute, nearly­silent science fiction film that featured no stars, critics and audiences might be skeptical (and rightfully so). Yet Stanley Kubrick managed to parlay his high-risk venture into one of the most enduring and compelling films of the 1960s. 
The year 2001 has come and gone, but Kubrick's indelible vision of the then-future endures. Opening to mixed critical opinion in 1968, "2001: A Space Odyssey" has since become renowned as Kubrick's masterpiece and a revolutionary film that stretched the boundaries of what a mainstream motion picture could be. 
Arriving at a time when the rules of Hollywood were changing, "2001: impenetrably elliptical in its presenta­tion. 
Tracing human evolution -in one brilliant dissolve -from ape to astro­naut, "2001" is one of those rare films that is about neither character nor plot, yet still works. Kubrick's out­standing visual sense, coupled with the film's eerily discomforting tone, keeps "2001" compelling through its long running time. 
"2001: A Space Odyssey" is nominally _ 

A Space Odyssey" 2001: A Space Odyssey and a detached helped rearrange 
voice (supplied by the notions and Douglas Rain), who conventions of ends up being the the science fiction most interesting genre. Previously When: Thursday at 10 pm computer. associated with Where: Browning Cinema, DPAC Named the about a team of astronauts' journey to Jupiter to investigate a giant black monolith. A similar monolith was found buried under the surface of the moon, so a team led by David Bowman (Keir Dullea) and Frank Poole (Gary Lockwood), and supplemented by the AI computer HAL 9000, journeys out to the far reaches of the solar system to investigate. 
Surprisingly, it is the computer HAL, 
nothing more than 
a glowing red eye 

Buck Rogers­esque serials, it was rarely taken seriously, despite a few exceptions (perhaps most notably Robert Wise's 1951 film "The Day the Earth Stood Still"). Kubrick's magnum opus tries to envision a future as it might be. 
Worked up from a short story by renowned author Arthur C. Clarke, the methodically paced film contains some 20 minutes of dialogue in a 140-minute running time. Split into several dis­cernable Acts featuring different phas­es of mankind, the film is almost 
American Film 
Institute's 13th greatest villain of all time, HAL (who is literally one step ahead of IBM) pro­vides some of the film's most dis­turbingly chilling moments. His cold logic, lack of a manifested form and detached demeanor made him one of the best embodiments of human fear of technology. 
The film's final act, in which David Bowman enters the monolith, is as trip­pily psychedelic as anything committed to celluloid. As the film reaches its obliquely ambiguous conclusion, the aforementioned generation of American filmmakers and brought about a change in American cinema that would make the entire industry adapt to a new method of filmmaking. Changes occurred as Hollywood began to subsume this new, more artistic mode. 

These changes are perhaps most visi­ble in the rise of the auteur (a French cinematic term that means "author") in American cinema, which is evident in films like "THX 1138," which was both written and directed by Lucas. 
"THX 1138" is an excellent film that received very little attention during its original release. It is a blessing to later generations that Lucas refused to com­promise and decided to make it in the way they he wanted to make it. 
This film pushed audiences to the lim­its, and the legacy of a few brilliant and upstart filmmakers will forever be immortalized in "THX 1138." 
"THX 1138" will be screened in the Brflwning Cinema at the DPAC on Thursday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Marty Schroeder at mschroel@nd.edu 

Kubrick's epiphanic grandiosity comes full circle in fulfillment of the director's majestic vision. 
It is only in that final shot that the audience is given a chance to under­stand the film in a way ·that transcends the trappings of most mainstream cine­ma. 
"2001: A Space Odyssey" is undoubt­edly a masterpiece, but it's not even Kubrick's best film -that honor goes to the black-as-night satire "Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb." Like that classic Cold War comedy, "2001" is both timely and timeless in equal measure. 
In an indication of the film's renown, it has been parodied endlessly, in everything from "The Simpsons" to "Zoolander." But for anyone who only knows "2001: A Space Odyssey" from the strains of Richard Strauss' "Also Sprach Zarathustra," it is required viewing. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
Wednesday, November 9, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Don't forget about MOVIES in the BROWNING CINEMA 
Caii6J1 .. fiLM for a recorded list of this week's showings! 
~ 


CLASSICAL PIANIST 
KRYSTIAN ZIMERMAN 
Wed., Nov. 9, 7:30pm 
Leighton Concert Hall 1 Student Tickets: $15 

--------~ -~---------------------------. 
r 
I 
I I page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 9, 2005 
NBA 

Bryant scores 37, Lakers win 103-97 in Atlanta 
Murphy dominates from three-point arc to lead Golden State over Milwaukee 
of the game until the Hawks er 3-pointer and added a three­
Associated Press 
closed the gap late with Bryant point play on the next posses­on the bench. sion to stretch the lead to 96­

ATLANTA -The Atlanta With 7:54 to play, Bryant 87. Hawks' new star couldn't slow scored on a breakaway jam, The Bucks got it back to 96­Kobe Bryant. drawing a foul from Hawks 94, but Davis made a 3-pointcr 
The Hawks' old smoking rookie Marvin Williams, to give and Derek Fisher added anoth­game clock didn't have any bet­him 37 points. With the Lakers' er 3 to end the Bucks' threat. ter luck, only causing delays lead at 12 points, Bryant sat out Davis, a two-time All-Star, that gave Bryant time to rest most of the fmal seven minutes. also throttled Ford, the Eastern and point the Los Angeles "In the third quarter they Conference's player of the Lakers' fast-break offense in a wanted it more than we did," week. Ford went 3-of-14 with winning direction. Johnson said. eight points and 11 assists-10 
Bryant scored 37 points, The Hawks, 0-4 for the sec­in the first half. including two drives to spark a ond straight year, are coming Golden State picked up Davis 14-2 second-half run, and the off a franchise-worst 13-win in February, and he helped Lakers spoiled Atlanta's home season. spark a 14-4 streak to end last opener, beating Joe Johnson "Right now it ain't looking season. With every starter and the Hawks on Tuesday good," Johnson said. "We've got returning, Golden State has night. a lot of work to do. We've got to picked up right where it left off. 
On a night the Philips Arena go back in the lab and get to Ford's dynamic play has been game clock and shot clock work." the biggest improvement for the rarely worked, the public surprising Bucks after he address announcer had to call Warriors 110, Bucks 103 missed last season following out the scores. Coach Phil Baron Davis showed T.J. Ford cervical spine surgery. Jackson and the Lakers laughed that he's still got a lot to learn But he played on the edge after the game about the often­at point guard -and the most of the night, like when he comical attempts by Hawks' Milwaukee Bucks found out intercepted a pass, nearly fell management to keep the game they have trouble defending the coming up the court, dribbled moving. 3-point shot. behind his back and spun a 
There were several delays Davis had 20 points and 15 bounce pass under the basket and reports of equipment smok­assists and the Golden State to Redd, who completed the ing behind press row. Warriors went 13-of-27 from 3-break with a difficult reverse 
Asked if he had ever experi­point range. layup. enced a similar collapse of tech­Troy Murphy scored 25 points During that stretch, Ford had nology, a smiling Jackson said -including 4-of-7 from beyond assists on four of five baskets as "It was probably here in the arc and Jason Milwaukee turned a four-point Atlanta, the last time it hap­Richardson added 23 for the deficit into a 53-50 lead, but for the Grizzlies and Eddie from 1999-2004 and was trad­
pened." Warriors (3-1). Davis answered with a 3-point­Jones had 10. ed in a blockbuster deal that 
Some Los Angeles players Mo Williams and Michael er to tie the game at 53 at half­Ray Allen led the Sonics (1-2) brought McGrady to Houston in joked the a'nnouncer kept an Redd each had 21 points for the time. with 15 points, less than half of June 2004. He was booed when exaggerated slow count of the Bucks (3-1). his 31.5 average through he was introduced and almost shot clock when the Hawks had Milwaukee coach Terry Stotts, Grizzlies 94, SuperSonics 69 Seattle's first two games. every time he touched the ball the ball but raced through the who served on the Warriors Shane Battier and Pau Gasol Rashard Lewis had 13 points, on Tuesday night, but shrugged count when the Lakers were on staff last season, worried before each scored 20 points and all in the first half, and 10 ofT the jeers to go 12-of-26 from offense. the game about the matchup sparked a third-quarter rally to rebounds. He missed all four of the field. 
The scene reminded Bryant of problems the 6-foot-11 Murphy lead the Memphis Grizzlies to a his shots after the break, and Dwight Howard and DeShawn summer league games in presented. · victory over the Seattle he and Allen were on the bench Stevenson each had 12 points Philadelphia. Murphy scored eight straight SuperSonics. for good with about seven min­and Nelson scored all 10 of his 
"I had no clue what the score points, including consecutive 3s, Battier scored 13 points in the utes left. in the final quarter for the was. It just made it a little hard­and Mike Dunleavy hit a third third quarter as Memphis built Magic, who won despite shoot­er to manage the game a little straight shot from beyond the its lead to 68-51. Battier Magic 76, Rockets 7 4 ing 37.8 percent. bit strategically," he said. arc as Golden State stretched a outscored the Sanies by himself Steve Francis broke into a Yao Ming had 17 points for 
Bryant topped the 30-point one-point lead to 72-59 late in until the final minute of the smile in the final seconds of the Houston, which looked shaky on mark for the fourth straight the third quarter. period. Meanwhile, Gasol had Orlando Magic's victory over the offense for the second straight game and had 37 for the second The Bucks, who had come 10 in the quarter which Houston Rockets. game without McGrady. The straight game -right on his from behind in all three previ­Memphis closed with a 10-2 Yeah, it was definitely sweet Rockets finished 26-of-70 from NBA-best average of 36.3. ous games, had never been run. to beat his former team. the field (37 percent). 
Atlanta, sparked by Johnson's down by as much, as late at The win was the third straight Francis scored 27 points and The Rockets still had a chance season-high 26 points, led 29-that point. for Memphis, and gave the had two assists to Jameer to win, leading 71-67 after a 19 in the first quarter and 51-But they mounted another Grizzlies (3-1) their second -best Nelson in the final two minutes layup by Hafer Alston with 2:06 48 at halftime. But following the run -without Redd, who start in franchise history. They as the Magic won for the first left. last tie at 63, Bryant scored on scored just two points after were 4-1 to open the 2000-01 time in four games. The Rockets double-teamed back-to-hack drives to send the picking up his fifth foul with season. It also snapped a six­The Rockets (1-2) lost their Francis in the closing minutes, Lakers on the run that made it 7:09 left. After a three-point game losing streak to the second straight without Tracy but Francis twice dribbled into 77-65. play by Williams and a layup by Sanies, who had won five McGrady, who's out three weeks the lane and found Nelson open 
The Lakers kept the lead in Charlie Bell, the Bucks trailed straight in Memphis. with a back injury. for 3-pointers that put Orlando double figures most of the rest 90-87 before Murphy hit anoth-Mike Miller added 14 points Francis played for Houston up 73-71. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
House for rent. 3 BR, 1 BA, 2 Car For rent: Two story house com-Furnished 1 bedroom condo (Ivy HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 
Gar. Clay Area. $700/mo. 574-210-pletely remodeled 2003. Ready for Residential/Jamison) 11/21/05-bdrms includes 
8308. immediate occupancy or May,2006. Call Mary Anne Benedict all utilities,local 
NOTICES PERSONAL 
next semester or next school year. 607-723-7363 or 607-770-0944. phone,washer/dryer,security sys-1-bedroom apt 1-mile from ND in KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES Off street parking includes motion tem. $400/student. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do quiet historic neighborhood,. FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07 sensor light for security. Four 2 bdrm,furn house, sleeps 5. 57 4-315-2509 not go it alone. If you or someone $575/month. Call 283-0325 SCHOOL YEAR. CLOSE TO CAM-individually locked bedrooms, Week/weekend (2 day min.) New ndstudentrentals.com you love needs confidential support 
PUS. 4 BEDROOMS, UP TO 10 central station monitored security Carlisle area (574)514-1669. 2006 SPRING SEMESTER NOW or assistance, please call Sr. M.L BEDROOMS. CALL 315-5032 ASK system, six blocks from Notre AVAILABLE. Gude, esc. at 1-7819. For more FOR KRAMER. Dame, bus stop in front of house, 123 ND Ave. 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath. Call information, see our bi-weekly ad in
FoR RENT surrounded by other student hous-574-229-0149. THE OBSERVER. 
KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS 1 ing, Laundromat next door, base-
YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart-SINGLE FAMILY HOME AVAIL-ment available for storage of bicy-908 SB Ave: Roomy 6-7 bdrm TICKETS SPRING BREAK -Early Booking 
ments available for 06-07 school ABLE. 140 N.SHORE BLVD. 3 cles, luggage, trunks, etc., home 4 blocks to NO. 2 baths, w/d, Specials-FREE Meals & Drinks ­
year. Call today 235-7234. BEDROOMS, 1.5 BATHS. GREAT new furnace and central air, broadband internet incl. WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. $50 Deposit-800-234-7007 
FOR PROFESSORS,STAFF, OR new kitchen including new stove Avail. 06-07 & 07-08 school year. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. www.endlesssummertours.com Rooms in private home for rent dur-GRAD STUDENTS. CALL 315-and refrigerator, large living room 327 Hill St: NEED A HOME ing ND football weekends 5032, ASK FOR KRAMER. for TV or entertaining, free trash TODAY? NEED A SECOND FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 or other ND-SMC events. removal. CHANCE? 289-9280 OR Days from $299! Includes Meals, Call 243-0658. GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH-Call 289-4071. Very nice 3 bdrm home. Close to VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR$$: MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, 
BORHOODS 06/07 & 07/08 NO & Corbys. www. victorytickets.com Acapulco. Jamaica From $499! WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED-andersonNDrentals.com 574-233-RENTAL FOR 2ND SEMESTER Broadband internet option. W/D & Campus Reps Needed! ROOM HOMES 9947 beautiful newly constructed 1 or 2 alarm system avaiL Move in today. BUYING & SELLING NO FOOT-PromoCode:31 www.springbreak­
bedroom Dublin Village Townhouse Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 or BALL TIX. travel.com 1-800-678-6386 MMMRENTALS.COM 3-6 bdrm homes for 06/07. Also across from SMC. email CHECK MY PRICES. 532-1408 avail.now. 574-329-0308. 570-220-9296. JCrimmins@myLandGrant.com 273-3911. Hi Mom! Tell Mark I said Hi, too! 



OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, November 9, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVERS WIRE SERVICES page 17 
Men's Basketball AP Poll 
tc>am 2005 record points 
1  Duke  27·6  1,785  
2  Texas  20·11  1,652  
3  Connecticut  23·8  1,578  
4  Michigan Slate  26·7  1,572  
5  Villanova  24·8  1,413  
6  Oklahoma  25·8  1,378  
7  Louisville  33·5  1,319  
8  Gonzaga  26·5  1,275  
9  Kentucky  28·6  1,255  
10  Arizona  30·7  1,212  
11  Boston College  25·5  1,093  
12  Memphis  22·16  920  
13  Stanford  18·13  842  
14  West Virginia  24·11  652  
15  Alabama  24·8  621  
16  Syracuse  27-7  586  
17  Illinois  37-2  563  
18  Wake Forest  27·6  524  
19  UCLA  18·11  499  
20  Iowa  21-12  395  
21  George Washington  22-8  304  
22  Nevada  25-7  291  
23  Indiana  15·14  273  
24  Maryland  19·13  528  
25  Iowa State  19·12  251  

Men's Basketball Coaches Poll 
tc>am 2005 record points 
1 Duke 27·6 767 2 Connecticut 23·8 692 3 Texas 20·11 683 4 Villanova 24·8 644 5 Michigan State 26·7 632 6 Oklahoma· 25·8 617 7 Gonzaga 26·5 540 8 Louisville 33·5 536 9 Arizona 30·7 532 10 Kentucky 28-6 511 11 Boston College 25-5 484 12 Memphis 22-16 354 13 Stanford 18·13 331 14 Alabama 24·8 295 15 West Virginia 24·11 265 16 Syracuse 27-7 210 17 Illinois 37·2 201 18 UCLA 18-11 190 18 Wake Forest 27-6 190 20 Iowa 21-12 176 21 Maryland 19-13 167 22 Indiana 15·14 153 23 Iowa 19-12 118 24 George Washington 22-8 109 25 Nevada 25-7 88 
Big East Women's Volleyball 
team Big East record pet. 
1 NOTRE DAME 11·1 .917 2 Louisville 11-1 .917 
3 Syracuse 10·2 .833 4 Cincinnati 9·3 .750 5 Plltsburgh 9·3 .750 6 St. John's 7-5 .583 7 MarqueHe 7-5 .583 8 Villanova 7-5 .583 9 Connecticut 5-7 .417 10 Rutgers 5·7 .417 11 West Virginia 4-8 .333 12 Seton Hall 2·10 .167 13 Georgetown 2·11 .154 
14 DePaul 1·11 .083 15 USF 1-12 .077 
around the dial 
CoLLEGE FooTBALL West Virginia at Cincinnati 7:30 p.m., ESPN 2 
NBA 
Miami at Indiana 8:00p.m., ESPN Sacramento at Denver 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
NEW YORK -Bartolo Colon always had the blazing fastball, the snap­py sinker, the natural look 
of a No. 1 starter.  
Still,  something  was  
missing: consistency.  
So he learned to  pull  

back a bit, focus on throwing strikes and get­ting grounders. Now, he's the dominant ace every­one envisioned, and he has an American League Cy Young Award to prove it. 
Colon won a surprising­ly one-sided vote Tuesday, beating out reliever Mariano Rivera and becoming the first Angels pitcher in 41 years to take home the honor. 

"If I can get an out with one or two pitches and use my sinker or my cut­ter, I'm better off," Colon said through a translator. "I stopped being a village boy, thinking that I can throw any stone, any rock through a wall, and start­ed thinking about being a guy that could last longer, to take some off my fast­ball and not to depend only on throwing hard." 
Colon, who led the league with 21 wins, was listed first on 17 ballots and second on the other 11 for 118 points in vot­ing by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. He was the only pitcher named on every ballot, easily topping Rivera, who received 68 points. 
The New York Yankees' closer got eight first-plaee votes for the highest fin­ish of his career, while 2004 winner Johan Santana of the Minnesota Twins received three and came in third. 
"After the season, yeah, I've been thinking about it a lot," Colon said during a conference eall from the Dominican Republic. "And one of the prevailing thoughts was the fact that maybe I won't get it. Maybe it was going to go to somebody else. A Jot of crazy things came into my head." 

Though Colon (21-81 was the league's only 20­game winner, this year's Cy Young race was thought to be close. II is 
3.48 EHA and 157 strike­outs ranked eighth, while Hivera racked up 4:{ saves and a eareer-bost 1.38 EHA. Santana went 16-7 with a 2.87 EHA and led the majors with 2:l8 strikoouts. 
IN BRIEF Bowden and Beattie apply
for Red Sox GM job 
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. Washington Nationals general manag­er .Jim Bowden and former Baltimore Orioles boss .Jim Beattie will interview with the Boston Red Sox to replace departed GM Theo Epstein. 
Hed Sox president Larry Lucchino and chairman Tom Werner will inter­view Bowden on Wednesday in Palm Springs, team spokesman Glenn Geffner said Tuesday night. Beattie will interview Friday in Boston. 
Other candidates might be inter­viewed Wednesday and Thursday in California, but their names won't be announced until the meetings are scheduled, Geffner said. 
The Hed Sox have received permis­sion to interview two officials of unidentified teams. 
Bowdon, Cincinnati's general man· ager from 1992-03, replaeed Omar Minaya as GM of the Montreal Expos/Washington Nationals after the 2004 season. Minaya left to become GM of the New York Mets. 

Congress introduces new,
eased steroid plan 
WASIIINGTON -Aiming for a Senate vote on steroid legislation this week, lawmakers eased the proposed penalties Tuesday, calling for a half­season suspension the first time an athlete tests positive for performanee­enhaneing drugs. 
The bill, sponsored by Sens. .Jim Bunning, R-Ky., and .John McCain, H­Ariz., contains a one-season ban for a second steroid ofl'ense and a lifetime ban for a third. It would apply to Major League Baseball, the NFL, NBA. NHL and baseball's minor leagues. 
Several bills that would standardize steroid rules across U.S. professional sports have been proposed in the House and Senate in recent months. Most -including the original version of the Senate measure -were based on the Olympic model: a two-year sus­pension for a first drug oflensc, a life­time ban for a second. 
"I think, seriously, that they are under the opinion that we will not act," said Bunning, a former piteher eleeted to baseball's Hall of Fame. "We tried to explain to them that we are going to act bncause of their fail­ure to do so, and I don't think it's sunk in." 
Auriemma leads spring
inductee list 
STOHHS, Conn. -Connecticut coach Gcno Auriemma leads the list of those to be inducted into the Women's Basketball Hall of Fame this spring. 
The other induetees are former Texas All-American Clarissa I>avis­Wrightsil, Louisiana Tech star .Janke Lawrence Braxton, formnr Gnorgia All-American Katrina MeClain Johnson, Bentley Collngn coaeh Barbara Stevens and Brazilian Olympian Maria Paula Gonealvns da Silva, a person with firsthand knowl­edge of' the induction proenss told 
The Associated Press on  tlw eondi­ 
tion of anonymity.  
The  class  will  be  of'f'ieially  

announeed on Saturday during thn women's basketball TipofT Classie at Texas Tech. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, November 9, 2005 
PGA 

Augusta National to add more yards 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. -For more than 40 years, the yardage on the scorecard at Augusta National Golf Club stayed about 6,925 yards for the Masters, which fooled no one. 
"I think '51 was the first year I played, and the 11th tee was almost behind the 10th green," Dow Finsterwald said Tuesday morning. "Then one year, they moved it way back in the woods to the left, and the yardage never changed. And on No. 15, the tee used to be in front of the service road. They moved it behind the road, and it was still 6,925. But it was such a great tournament, nobody ever really raised the question. 
"What difference does it make. anyway? Everyone plays from the same tees." 
Some of the tees won't be the same at the 70th Masters this April, and players won't need a seoreeard to notice. The offieial yardage is 7,445 yards, courtesy of changes to six holes that added about 155 yards. 
It's the third time in the last six years that Augusta National has strengthened its golf course -520 yards since 1999 -each an attempt to restore the rhythm and shot value the way Bobby Jones and Alister MaeKenzie designed it. 
As usual, the new tees look as if they had been there all along. 
Players will know better, espe­eially when they leave the prac­tice green for the first tee, which is now a short walk. The tee box has been moved back about 20 yards to make the hole play 455 yards, although change at Augusta National is not all about length. 
The eye-opener is that cav­ernous bunker down the right side, where a finger of turf now dips into the sand and creates the appearanee of a double bunker. Balls rarely will be in the middle of the sand, allowing for a routine escape; now there will be steep lips in the way. 
Players might get lost on the way to the fourth tee. 
It used to be positioned direct­ly behind the third green. Now, take a hard right and go some 40 yards into the woods. Or what used to be woods. Already the meanest par 3 on the course, it now plays up to 240 yards. 
Jones gave Sports Illustrated a hole-by-hole description in 1959 and said of the par-3 fourth, "The shot is usually a strong iron, or even a 4-or 3-wood." 
"It's usually a 6-iron, depend­ing on the wind," Retief Goosen said when asked last week how he played No. 4. "Sometimes, it can be a 5-iron, or even a 4­iron, when the pin is to the right." 
Maybe the Goose should talk to Ben Crane, who played five rounds in four days a few weeks ago. Crane, no short hitter at 61 st in driving distance on the PGA Tour this year, hit 3-wood to the green, except the one time the tees were slightly for­ward. Then he hit 2-iron. 
The seventh hole is about a football field longer than when Jose Maria Olazabal won in 1999, thanks to a tee that has been moved back 40 yards so that it now plays 450 yards. Just look down a ehute of towering pines and search for five white specks (bunkers) to find the green. 
Finsterwald will be glad to know that No. 11 is now 505 yards, with a tee pushed even farther back into the woods. Again, it's not strictly about length. The club has added 17 additional pines down the right side, bringing the small forest to 43 trees and making the right side -a bailout area when the pin was back left -no longer a safe alternative. 
The other two changes simply put an extra club in the players' hands, if that. 
The par-5 15th is baek about 30 yards and over to the left, so anyone hitting a power draw can still get plenty of roll and reach the green. 


NFL 

Colts, Manning focus on future 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Peyton Manning stood at his postgame news conference with a rare smile and an unusual twinkle in his eyes. He had finally won at New England, and for once, Manning wanted to savor the moment. 
By Tuesday morning, the cel­ebration ended as the Indianapolis Colts looked ahead to their next game against Houston. 
"I love plane rides in the NFL after a win," Manning said Monday night. "Hopefully we'll fly slow -a two-hour flight­and then touch the ground and it's on to Houston." 
For Manning and the Colts (8-0), the expectations follow­ing a 40-21 victory over the two-time defending Super Bowl champs pose the biggest threat now. 
Indy fans treated the Patriots game as if it was the Super Bowl, and a conveniently timed bye week played into the buildup. Some figured a victo­ry at New England also meant the Colts punched their tieket to Detroit, site of this year's Super Bowl. 
On Tuesda~ eoach Tony Dungy wasted no time in debunking such thoughts as premature. 
"You get all these stats about the last team that won their first eight or nine games or the last unbeaten team going to the Super Bowl," Dungy said. "It's like the Indy-New England spiel, it really doesn't mean anything." 
Nonetheless, Dungy was still peppered with questions about whether the unbeaten Colts could challenge the 1972 Miami Dolphins' perfect record, especially with a tough stretch ahead _ a Nov. 20 date at Cincinnati followed by a Monday night game at home against Pittsburgh. He taetfully avoided the bait. 

Rather than looking ahead, ref1ecting on the best start in franchise history or the victory at New England, Dungy turned the attention back to Houston. 
"We have to do what we did last week and that is to focus on the opponent you're playing and that game," he said. "What's happened in the past, what could happen in the future, we have to block all that stuff out. I think we have some guys on this team that will help us do that." 
It starts with Manning. 
No matter the eireum­stances, Manning always seems to find the right words to challenge his teammates, and Monday night proved no exception. 
Mueh as he enjoyed his lat­est personal milestone, win­ning at New England for the first time in eight games, Manning's quick mention of Houston was an indication that everyone needed to move on. 
"There always will be some­thing else, like this was not a playoff game," Manning said. "I am very content to have won this particular game." 
The difference between this season and past seasons is that the Colts no longer must rely on the strength of Manning's right arm to win games. 

Free Pizza  Free Pizza  Free Pizza  Free Pizza  
Interested in IRELAND? Want to study in IRELAND? Want to work in IRELAND?  
Information meeting  
THE GREAT HALL, O'SHAG 8:00-9:00 pm THURSDAY, 10 NOV. 2005  
Faculty available to answer questions about the MINOR in IRISH LANGUAGE & LITERATURE and the MINOR in IRISH STUDIES  
Free Pizza  Free Pizza  Free Pizza  Free Pizza  

Sponsored by the Dept. ofIrish Language & Literature and the Keough Institute for
November 20, 2005 Tickets: $5 in advance 
12 p.m. -5p.m. $10 at the door 
Palais Royale Ballroom To order call: 
105 W. Colfax, South Bend 574-235-9190 
Irish Studies 


Wednesday, November 9, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MLB 
Urbina jailed in Venezuela 
Plziladelphia pitcher accused of attacking five with machetes 
Associated Press 
CAHACAS. -Philadelphia Phillies pitcher Ugueth Urbina was arrnstml and held Tuesday pending a formal charge of attmnpt1~d murder. 
Last month, Urbina and a group of men alleg~~dly attacked live workers with machetes and pourml gasoline on them in an attempt to set them on lire. All five were injurnd, somn of them with euts and one with burns on the back and right arm, police said. 
Urbina. who was detained late Monday, has insisted he had nothing to do with the vio­lence at his family's ranch Oct. 
16. 
"Everything will be cleared up soon and people will know thn truth," Urbina said from his ~~ell at a police station. "Hight now we aren't going to do any­thing to deny things that aren't true." 
The authorities said Urbina would be formally charged once he appears before a judge, and Urbina said he understood that !waring could be held Tuesday. 
Urbina's lawyer, .lose Luis Tamayo, said the piteher was sleeping at the time of the inei­dent and was not involved. One vi1~tim, Argenis Farias, has accused Urbina of being among thn attackers. 
Urbina was traded from Detroit to Philadelphia in the middle of last season. The 



•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 

reliever became a free agent aftnr the season ended. 
"This, of course, can in some way hurt his career as a profes­sion;tl ballplayer, and all will depend on the way in which he is brought before justice," defense lawyer Jose Luis Tamayo said. 
Urbina was with his mother and other relatives late Monday at another of Urbina's homes on the outskirts of Caracas when the police came with an arrest warrant, Tamayo said. He called the arrest "inexplicable." 
"Aside from whether a person is guilty of a crime or not, if there is no danger of flight or obstruction of justice, that per­son has a right to be tried while free," Tamayo said. 
The lawyer said Urbina has cooperated with the authorities all along, noting he has come to the police voluntarily to provide testimony. 
New Phillies general manager Pat Gillick, speaking at tho GM meetings in Indian Wells, Calif., said he had heard about the arrest but had no reaction because Urbina was no longer part of Philadelphia's organiza­tion. 
The violence broke out at the ranch house where Urbina's mother, Maura Villareal, lives about 25 miles south of Caracas. 
Police initially said the vio­lence broke out in a dispute over a handgun. 
The 31-year-old Urbina has a 44-49 record with 237 saves and a 3.45 EHA in 11 seasons. 



University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
Angers, France Paris, France 
INFORMATION MEETING 

"Tying Up Loose Ends Before Packing Your Suitcase" 
With Prof. Paul McDowell and returnees of the program 


Wednesday, November 9, 2005 7:30PM 118 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2005 Academic Year 2006-2007 Fall 2006 Spring 2007 Applications available: www.nd.edu/~intlstud 
NFL 

Owens apologizes to Eagles, McNabb 
Associated Press 
MOOHESTOWN, N.J. -For once, Terrell Owens put aside his pride, admitted he was wrong and pleaded for a sec­ond chance with the Philadelphia Eagles. 
The team appeared unmoved. 
A contrite Owens, hoping to . overturn his dismissal from the Eagles, on Tuesday apolo­gized to coach Andy Hnid, quarterback Donovan MeN abb, the team's owner and president, and fans. 
"The mentality that I have, my greatl~st strength can also be my greatest weakness," Owens said, reading a state­ment outside his house. ''I'm a fighter. I've always been and I'll always be. I light for what I think is right. In doing so, l alienated a lot of my fans and my teammates." 
"This is very painful for me 

• to be in this position," he said. "I know in my heart that I can help the team win the Super Bowl and not only be a dominant player, but also be a team player. I can bring that." llis agent, Drew Hosenhaus, said Owens made a public apology in hopes of returning to the Eagles immediately. "We hope he plays again for the Philadelphia Eagles," Hosenhaus said. "We hope he plays right away. We hope he plays against the Dallas Cowboys on Monday night." Team spokesman Derek Boyko said the Eagles had no comment. A day earlier, Owens was told by the team not to return this season because of "a large number of situations that accumulated over a long period of time," Heid said. He said Owens had been "warned repeatedly about the consequences of his actions." 
The All-Pro wide receiver didn't play in Sunday night's 17-10 loss at Washington, and will remain suspended for throe morn games without pay. Arter t.hat. the Eagles plan to deactivate him for tlw rest of the season. 

NFL spokesman Grng Aiello said Tuesday that t.he players' union has f'iled a grinvane1~ on behalf of Owens snnking to overturn thn suspension. It will be hnard Nov. 1X bdon~ arbitrator Hiehard nloeh. 
Owens was suspnnded Saturday. two days after lw said the 1\agles showed "a lack of elass" for not publiely recognizing his 1OOth earner touchdown catch in a ganw on Oct. 23. In the same inter­view with 1\SPN.com, Owens said the Eagles would be bet­ter off with Groen Bay's Brett Favre at quarterback instead of McNabb. 
Owens apologized to the organization for making those comrmmts. but didn't address McNabb, even though the statement he read from included a direct apolo­gy to the 11ve-time Pro Bowl quarterback. 
This time, Owens said hn was sorry not only to Heid and McNabb, but also to Eagles president Joe Banner and owner Jeffrey Lurie. 
"I would like to reiterate my respect for Donovan McNabb as a quarterback and as a teammate," Owens said. "I apologizn to him for any comments that may have been nngative." 
The Eagles are 4-4 this sea­son and last in the NFC East. Last year, they were the top team in the conference, going 13-3 on the way to the Super Bowl. 
"It really hurts me not to be part of the team anymore," Owens said. "I came here to help the Eaglns get to thn Super Bowl and win the big game." 
While Hosenhaus spoke to reporters and refusnd to answnr snveral questions. Owens stood stoically along­side a burly bodyguard. 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, November 9, 2005 
MLB 
World Baseball Classic scheduled for next year 
Associated Press 
INDIAN WELLS, Calif. ­Mike Piazza could find himself on a new team next year ­Italy. 
The All-Star catcher could be eligible to play for the Italians in the inaugural World Baseball Classic under eligibility rules being dis­cussed by the commissioner's office and the players' associ­ation. 
Angel Stadium in Anaheim, Calif.. will be used with Bithorn Stadium as a second­round site for the tourna­ment, to be played from March 3-20, the ty of the U.S. team and boost the depth of other nations in the tournament. 
While rules have not been finalized, among the ways players could be eligible for a team would be if they hold a passport, were born in the country, have a parent who was born in that country or they had residency in that country. 
"The union told us they determined that Mike could play for the Italian team," said Piazza's agent, Dan Lozano. He was unsure of the specific reason why Piazza, who was born in Norristown, 
Pa .. was eligi­

commissioner's ble.
"Eligibility rules 
office announced "The Italians 
are still being dis­
Tuesday. The believe that if semifinals and cussed. It will be Mike Piazza was final will be at to apply for dual
similar to IBAF
San Diego's Petco citizenship, he
rules."
Park, baseball would be grant­and the union ed it," players' said in September. Paul Archey association chief Chase Field in operating officer
senior VP of MLB
Phoenix (formerly Bank One Ballpark) and Scottsdale Stadium will join the Tokyo Dome, Hiram Bithorn Stadium in San Juan, Puerto Hico, and the Atlanta Braves' spring training ballpark in Kissimmee, Fla.. as first­round sites, said Paul Archey, a senior vice president of Major League Baseball International. 
For soccer's World Cup, players must be a citizen of a country and hold a passport for that country to partici­pate. Rather than let each nation's eligibility rules be the determinant, baseball will likely apply the broadest rules of any participating country to all teams in the 16-nation event. 
Under these rules, players born in the Dominican Republic who are United States citizens still would be eligible to be on the Dominican team. These rules probably will lower the quali-Gene Orza said. 
Orza said he thought the reason was because Piazza has a grand­parent who was born in Italy. 
Baseball hopes to announce at the winter meetings in December commitments from players to participate. 
"Eligibility rules are still being discussed. It will be similar to the lBAF rules," Archey said, referring to the International Baseball Federation. 
With seven teams changing their top baseball operations people since August, many clubs were still formulating their offseason plans heading into the five-day session. Agent Scott Boras predicted that will lead to a slow mar­ket for free-agent signings. 
"With so many new GMs, there's a belief that with many clubs there have been philosophical changes that may free up players who were previously unattainable." he said. 
NHL 

Flyers defeat Boston, 4-3 
Overtime score gives Flyers comeback win 
Associated Press PHILADELPHIA -J oni Pitkanen scored the tying goal with 23.4 seconds left and added the winner 1:55 into overtime to give the Philadelphia Flyers a 4-3 victory over the Boston Bruins on Tuesday night. The Flyers won their fourth straight game and seventh in a row at home, overcoming a two-goal deficit in the final 3:35 of regulation on goals by Pitkanen and Simon Gagne. Sergei Samsonov, Shawn McEachern and Joe Thornton scored for the Bruins, who haven't lost in regulation in nine games since Oct. 20. With goalie Hobert Esche on the bench and an extra skater on the ice, Pitkanen took a long pass from Peter Forsberg, streaked down the left side and wristed a shot into the far corner under the crossbar to tie it at 3. In overtime, Pitkanen took a pass from behind the net and tucked it past goalie Hannu Toivonen to win it. Mike Knuble also scored for Philadelphia, which played without captain Keith Primeau and top defenseman Eric Desjardins. Both players have concus­sions. Samsonov scored during a two-man advantage 56 sec­onds into the third to give the Bruins a 2-1 lead. Thornton set it up with a 

nifty pass in front. 
Soon after, Esche made a sliding save with his left pad on a shot by Thornton to keep the deficit at one. 
But Thornton scored an unassisted goal to make it 3-1 with 4:48 left. Gagne cut it to 3-2 a minute later with his NHL-leading 16th goal. 
Boston tied it at 1 on McEachern's power-play goal late in the second. McEachern's slap shot 
sailed past Esche's glove. 
Knuble deflected a slap shot by Kim Johnsson past Toivonen for a power-play goal that gave the Flyers a 1-0 lead in the final minute of the first. 
Knuble played his first game against his former teammates. lie spent 4 1/2 years with the Bruins and was a member of Boston's top line with Thornton and Glen Murray. 


Bessette House of Discernment University of Notre Dame Congregation of Holy Cross Brothers of the Midwest Province 
Are you interested in spiritual direction? 
Would you like a place for solitude for a morning, an afternoon, a full day or a weekend? 
Are you interested in a directed one or two day personal retreat? 
Are you and a group of friends interested in guided reflection upon scripture or discernment of vocation? 
Contact Brother Philip R. Smith, CSC at 574-631-0995 
psmith@brothersofholycross.com 
Wednesday , November 9, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 fOOTBALL NOTEBOOK 
Quinn natned a finalist for prestigious O'Brien Avvard 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Spons Writt•r 
Junior quarterback Brady <}uinn was nanwd one of 15 finalists named for the 2005 l>avny ()'Brien National Quartnrbaek Award Tuesday. 
<}uinn joins thn likes of' Matt Leinart of' USC, Vinee Young of Texas and DrPw Stanton of Mkhigan Statn as a linalist for thn pn~stigious award. 
<}uinn has completed 195-of­299 passes this season li1r 2,64 7 yards, and is just )()(,yards 
Navy 
continued from page 24 
ymtr thoy havn 1~anwd a bid ­a sdwol rm:ord. 
"All our focus has to he on going against tho team that's got similar goals as we do," Wnis said. 
Navy IJPPds just onn win in its rPmaining games against tho Irish. Tomplo and Army to be howiPiigihlo, and tho Irish must lwat Navy and Syracuse at honw and Stanli1nl on tho road to prnsnrvn tludr BCS bowl hopos. But Wds wants his play­~~rs focusod solely on Navy, IHwausn if they ovnrlook the Midshipnwn tlwy could be in lilr probiPms. 
"I think that the most impor­tant thing thny have to nmlizo is that when thny're playing against Navy, tlwy'm playing against a t1~mn that's put them­selves in a position to make sonw serious noise themselves, away from breaking Jarious Jackson's single-season passing record of 2,753. 
The junior is 53S yards away from tho career passing record of' 7,0(14, held by Hon Powlus, who is now the Director of Personnel Development for the Irish. 
Quinn has also thrown li1r 23 touchdowns and four intercep­tions in his third year as the Notre Dame starting quarter­back. 
Thrnn finalists for the O'Brien Award will be announe11d Nov. 
22. and tho winner will be named on Doe. 8. 
so wo'ro not alone in this situa­tion here," Wnis said. 
And so for the Irish to win out, it starts this weekend against Navy and its triple option offense. The Midshipmen's undnrsized quar­terback, 5-foot-9. I R5-pound Lamar Owens, a eo-captain, is a dual thrnat. On tlw season he has 5S5 yards on the ground and 936 yards in tim air. 
"Their whole oiTenso starts with the quarterback Owens," Wnis said. "lie's a dual threat 1wnry time he touehns tho ball." 
Owens leads a Navy team that has beaten Duke, Air Foree, Kent State, Hice and Tulane, losing only to Maryland, Stanli1rd and Hutgnrs. And Weis said the Irish are not taking the Midshipmen lightly. 
"Tiw game is going to be short11ned," Weis said. "You have to make the most of your own possessions because you 
A little history 
Before coming to Notre Dame, Irish head coach Charlie Weis worked under New England Patriots head coach Bill Belichick. Beliehick's dad Steve was an assistant coach at Navy for :B years. 
"Trust me, he'll work me up at the game and be all over me," Weis said of Bill Belichiek. ''I'm sure he'll be around." 
Weis said he watched part of' the Now England-Indianapolis game on Monday night, but that he had to turn it off after tho Patriots were down big. 
"I watched about part of' the 
quart11r points -four toueh­downs on its lirst four posses­sions to put the game out of reaeh early. Navy finished with 418 yards rushing, throwing the ball just three times and com­pleting one pass for 29 yards. 
"Healistkally, what they do is run their core things and make you stop thorn," Weis said. "They very seldom get stopped. You don't average 282 yards a game rushing by people shut­ting you down." 
Weis said for the Irish to be successful. they have to get on· to a good start, as Navy is 3-0 this season when it scores lirst. And Weis said that since Navy is an aeademy, the team is one of' the most diseiplined teams the Irish will play this year. 
"These guys are so funda­mentally sound and they're driven to be successful, it pres­ents some serious problems," he said. 

probably won't have as many." Last week in a 49-21 win over Contact Heather Van Hoegarden Tulane, Navy scored 28 first-at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Do you want a great summer job on campus? 
2006 SUMMER RESIDENCE HALL STAFF 
The OHice of Residence Life and Housing is 
currently accepting early applications for summer staH positions. Going abroad next semester? Apply and interview before you leave campus. 
Applications and additional information are available on the OHice of Residence Life and Housing web site at: 

Applications: on-line until Feb. II Interview sign-up: call 1-5878 Interviews: Nov. 16-Dec. 9 
Interviews will be in 305 Main Building. 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
Phone• 631-5878 E-Maih orlh@nd.edu
ofl&n 

first half and then 1 got sick, so I just said that's enough," Wois said. "I didn't throw in tho towel on who would win, but there came a point whore it was time to go home and get in bed and go to sleep." 
The final score was 40-21 in favor of the Colts. 
Knowing what to expect 
Weis said Tuesday that it's no secret as to what Navy will try to do on Saturday. On the con­trary, Weis prides himself in designing a nlJW game plan each week, tailored to the Irish's opponents. 
Swinnners 
continued from page 24 
to showease our team dnpth. think the voters rneognized that in tho polls." 
The new ranking is part of an upward trend as Notre Dame attempts to slide into the eollo­hriate elite. 
"The improvement has been a result of two main factors: the arrival of [fourth-year assistant coach] Matt Tallman and the ath­letic department's new commit­ment to their Olympk sporl'i pro­grams," head eoach Tim Welsh said. 
Among other responsibilities as an assistant, Tallman is in eharge of recruiting for the team. llis expertise has landed three of the top reeruiting elasses in Notre Dame's history. 
"I've known ITallman [ since I was eight years old, and he's always been good to me," sopho­more Graham Parker said. "lie is very professional in his work." 
The Notre Dame athletie department also has played a role in the recent team improvements. In 2002, the athletic department decided to step up its support by providing the NCAA maximum of 
r------------------,
:VERA BRADLEY: 
1 20% off with ND/SMCStu.I.D. 1 
L------------------J 
I  I  
I  ~It~ ~U ~U  :  
1  East Bank Emporium Restaurant Bldg.  1  
1  121 S. Niles Ave .• (574) 232-8488  t  

"They are a little bit contrast­ing to me in tlw fact that they're going to eonw out and takn play action shots, and one of' the rea­sons why they're averaging 20 yards a catch with all those skilled receivers is because everyone spends so much time trying to stop tlw run," he said. "All of' a sudden everyone is try­ing to stop tho run, and next thing you know they're bnhind you. They oxncuto very well and I have a lot of' l'l~spoet for tlwir oll'ense." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
9.9 tlmm scholarships. 
"People havn probably always been interested in eoming to Notre Damn to swim, but tlwy opted to go nlsnwlwn~ for finan­dal reasons," Tallman said. 
The Irish swimmers also eitn the hard-working attitude and passion of Welsh as a mason li1r thnir suecess. 
"Tim is what we call the philosophnr-eoaeh," Irish captain Patriek llnlimmn said. "lie thinks long and hard about evnrything hn has us do in praetien and is really passionate about the pro­h'Tam." 
Welsh has eoached at Notre Damn l'or the past 20 years ­second in duration only to tral'.k and linld eoach Jon Piano in his 31st smL'ion-and IHL'i had a sim­ple strategy since tho day he arrived. 
"Everyday, nvnry pradien WI~ just try to get a little bit faster and a littln bit better." Welsh said. 
Dnspite rnueh impmvemnnt, his goal rmnains the same. Welsh's only prediction for the futuro of tho Irish pro!-,rram is that they will continue to work hard to get faster in the water. 
"We have a lot of big meets coming up in the next few months whore we can really show oil' our talent against some of the bnst teams around," Kegnlman said. 
The tnam's next ehallnnge comes Friday in East Lansing against Michigan State. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 

For alimited time, buy one air/hotel package and the second person flies free from South Bend! 
Packages available with 30 ofLas Vegas' most exciting hotels. 
Book now at 
www.allegiantair.com 
Calll·S00-432-3810 page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, November 9, 2005 
Golf 

continued from page 24 
from Las Vegas until Thursday, which means the team was only on campus for one day before flying to Georgia on Saturday. 
King said while the hectic week may have affected some individuals, she didn't think it had an adverse effect on the team as a whole. 
"It's hard to say," she said. "Some people like it hectic. Others like it slow. Regardless, we don't like to make excus­es." 
The tournament was Notre Dame's last of the fall season. The Irish will not compete again until Feb. 19 in the Central District Classic in Parish, Fla. 
"We're ready for the break," King said. "It's been a long semester with a lot of travel. We're ready to start strength and conditioning and work on the mental part of the game." 
The team will also work with sports psychologist Mick Franco during their winter break. 
Franco has worked with sev­eral Irish squads, including both the men's and women's soccer teams. 
"[Franco willl work on taking one shot at a time, not being in the past, not being in the future, only thinking in the present, gaining confidence, how to focus," King said. 
East Tennessee State fin­ished third in the tournament, followed by Arkansas State, Western Carolina, Florida International, Jacksonville State and Birmingham Southern in No. 4-No. 8, respectively. 
Florida State sent a team of less experienced golfers to the tournament. The young Seminoles finished ninth. 
Elon, Richmond, James Madison and Wyoming round­ed out the field of 13. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edudu 
Carroll 

continued from page 24 
secutive year. 
Carroll is quick to credit her new coaching staff, especially head coach Carrie Nixon, a for­mer swimming standout at Notre Dame, for helping her to get off to such a good start this season. 
"A Jot of it has to do with the new coaching staff," Carroll said. "Now that Carrie's our head coach, she's doing things her own way, and what she's doing will really benefit both myself and the whole team." 
Carroll's early success this sea­son should come as no surprise, given her strong finish to the 2004 campaign. She was named the Most Outstanding Swimmer of the Big East Championships along with an impressive performance at the NCAA championships. 
Carroll finished ninth in the 200 individual medley, a 13-spot improvement from her freshman year, and 14th in the 400 individ­ual medley, a 21-spot improve­ment from her freshman year. 
"The NCAA's really gave me a 


~ 
DUTPDST 
~ 
Cold Weather Experts 

confidence boost last year," she said. "It really helped me seeing that I was able to compete with swimmers across the nation at that high a level." 
Not one to rest on last year's accomplishments, Carroll still has a few things she hopes to accom­plish with the remainder of this season. 
"I want to help the team win the Big East this year, but I think we have goals beyond that," Carroll said. "We have a lot of girls on the brink of qualifying for the NCAA's this year, and with the training we've had so far, I think we can get them to the NCAA's." 
Carroll, who posted a pair of top-30 results in the 2004 Olympic trials, also isn't ruling out the possibility of an Olympic appearance. 
"2008 [Olympic Games] is a goal in the back of my head, but I'm just taking it one year at a time," she said. "Right now, my focus is on this season and help­ing Notre Dame as much as I can." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 

NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick fleece coat is perfect 
for winter. Ask any yak. 

300 Weight Polartec@ fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 


Hours: Mon.-Fri.: 1o:oo am-9:00pmSot: 1o:oo am -B:oo pm Sun.: 12:oo pm -6:oopm 
Francis 
continued from page 24 

Chris Quinn started at point guard last Thursday against Lewis University, though he spent last season as the off guard in Thomas' offense. 
Colin Falls moved to his natural shooting guard spot. And Rob Kurz and Russell Carter -who have one reg­ular season start between the two of them -filled the small forward and power forward positions, respec­tively. 
Only Francis was com­pletely used to his responsi­bilities. 
"That's going to be the key this year, seeing how every­one fits in their role," Francis said before practice Tuesday at the Joyce Center. 
The senior captain from Boston, Mass. knows much of Notre Dame's success this season will ride on his per­formance. 
"I have to do better in other ways as far as being a defensive stopper, not letting anyone get to the basket and just being a physical pres­ence out there," Francis said. "That's one of the ways I have to lead the team." 
Registering nine blocks, eight points and seven rebounds against Division II Lewis was a start. 
Irish coach Mike Brey said after Lewis he was impressed with Francis' ability to patiently handle and pass the ball out of the double team. 
"I thought Torin handled the ball against the double team better than he ever has, and that usually both­ered him," Brey said. "They watch a lot of tape of us obviously." 
Outside of Francis' on­court performance, the sen­ior is going to be responsible for leading a young team that includes four freshmen. While Francis was also a captain as a junior last year, he said more depends on him this season. 
"This year, I'm a senior," Francis said. "When Chris Quinn and myself ... are out on the floor, we're supposed to be the leaders. We're sup­posed to be the coaches on the 
Francis averaged 9.3 points and 7.8 rebounds in 
26.4 minutes per game last season, down from the 14.2 points and 8.8 rebounds he averaged during his sopho­more season. He scored 25 points and grabbed 10 boards as a freshman against Arizona in the Sweet 16. 
Following the end of his junior season, Francis declared himself eligible for 
the NBA draft. lie went to 

floor." "I just learned Chicago and Much of this that every game participated in 
leadership will pre-draft work­
counts. You
involve the outs. development of can't take any But Francis freshman games off" said everybody power forward at the workouts Luke Zeller. was a solid bas­
Torin Francis
Francis spent ketball player, time before this Irish captain and he realized 
GREAT LIFESTYLE 
Turtle Creek Aartments 

Adjacent to Campus! 
Remodeled Apartments Available 
www.campuscribs.net 
1.866.395.4201 

1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 
CLOSEST TO CAMPUS 

season working with Zeller and said because they both oper­ate in the low post, he has a Jot to teach Indiana's reign­ing Mr. Basketball. 
"[Our older guys] experi­enced everything, and we really know what to tell the freshman in order to make themselves better," Francis said. "They do look up to us." 
Last season is still fresh in Francis' mind. He remem­bers the disappointment that came along with not making the NCAA tournament and hopes to grow from last sea­son. 
"I just learned that every game counts," he said. "You can't take any games off. Not only that, you can't take any possessions off. There were so many games I can think of where we should have won. We had the lead, and we let it slip away." 
He learned valuable les­sons last season about him­self and his game, as well. 


that foregoing 
his senior sea­son would mean possibly selling himself short. 
"I just realized that I want­ed to come back to school," Francis said. "I didn't really accomplish what I wanted to last year. We lost [in the] first round in the NIT and I didn't want to go out like that." 
Francis is back and is ready to lead the Irish. He said he is prepared to han­dle the individual responsi­bility of taking charge so last season's mistakes do not repeat themselves. 
"I need to learn that I have to step up in those situations when we're up by four with a minute to go," Francis said. "I have to step up and say we're not losing this game. We're winning this game. That's the difference between losing and being successful." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edudu 

Wednesday, November 9, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
JOCKULAR 
ERIK POWERS and ALEC WHITE 

CROISSANTWORLD 
' 

c ANI DELlt>E: 
Al"-E 'jol}. 

I?,E..IW E E:. N RE.ADIN (J C..LA~ 
II '\HIS <-LA~ t>E~(.\Z.IPTiot-15) 
\N ILL MAI<.E. 'jou WE..\ 'fOUf!... PAN'"T5 IN A<.i>\I:>EcM \C. E.I.J.f'\-1 O~IA '' 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
ANo h .T'-HS C..UISS 
WILL MA~<;E. 'f0l.1 
\t-.IE.E.P POR ·-:~o'(, 1-\ u 1:>\)LE. t:> I !'IA~E.D 
Al'-.11:> 'S.I--l\'JEi2--INLr, 
JN \HE COI'ZNE~ IN 
'"114E PRESE.N<..e: oF 
'/OUR 0DI> -:·· ME ,l"J.1 
G,u'\ "\ E.AC.H IN. ·.· 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJ~&b~ 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
GAADE 
j
rJ r 
102005 Tnbune Media Services, Inc.
f5;f't J 
JADEGG 
WHAT THE: OOC.TOR C.ON51DE:Re:D THE:
I I I 
MIND RE:AOE:R WHO
www.jumble.com 
FE:L-L-ON THE: IC.E:.
t
COLUSH t 

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as

J I I J I 
suggested by the above car­
ffi1swer here: A 

'l I I I Jl I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' Jumbles: TWILL MINCE KOWTOW GEYSER s Answer: How the pretzel maker increased business­
I 

WITH A NEW "TWIST" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34 Part of T.G.I.F.: Abbr.
1 Place to get sober 37 Barbra's "A Star Is Born" co-star
6 Prekindergart­ners 38 One way to the 10 Repulsive one 
www 
39 North African Spain 14 Walled city in port 
15 Uprising 40 Former J.F.K. lander
16 Within: Prefix 41 Spice wagon?

17 Pirate's pal 45 Lisa of "The
18 Start to freeze? 

Cosby Show" 19 Nautilus skipper 
46 Gilda of "S.N.L." 

20 Committee 47 Phoebe orbits it
head's timepiece? 50 Champion's award

23 A.C. measure 26 Prior to, to Prior 
51 Explosive inits. 

27 Ones running 52 Gibberish from through zoo animals? California 
56 Where a power 28 Trojan hero play may occur 30 Tuckered out 57 Orbital period 
32 Ice-cream 58 Radium request? discoverer 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
AL c 0 AI AEISIOIP.'G'A'S 
J I H A 0 0 IIAINIE 'Qf;;r'f 0 V A T E E N.N L 'Q~'Q B E N .f-8 A L S N I G E L 

.B U M.L 
E T 
T S.E L LA T A K E 
S T H E 
VA 
L U E 0 F R I A T 
A T 
E A T H 0 u 
A-I 
N D 
I NS A 
R 0 
ME R A H 
0 0 S Y M B 0 L F 0 R ~~R B 0 N PEER.DARED AON. A M N I O.M A S K • T R U 
0 
L F-Y 

S E T T  L EJOJU  P  ~  0  H  I  T  
iif;;r'QI EJXJIJL  E  0  B E S E  
~~!  GJOJMJA  D  T  I  R E S  

WILLSHORTZ 
62 Start of a crystal gazer's statement 
63 Library catalog abbr. 64 Passes over 65 Saucy 66 Turn down 67 Dummies 
DOWN 1 Rear-end, e.g. 2 Stowe heroine 3 Bomb's opposite 4 A Baldwin 5 Seasoning from 
the laurel tree 6 Try to locate 7 Sty cry 8 Oz visitor 9 Get starched? 


10 Opposite of "At ease!" 
11 Actor Patrick 
12 Fess up to 13 Some are sliding 21 Guesstimate phrase 22 Porch chair 
material 23 Pigskin carriers 24 Crocodile 25 Dark 29 Loop transports 30 Patton player 31 Game you can't 
play left-handed 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
33 Like a white  43 60's dance  53 Big do  
Bengal tiger  44 Where  54 James of  
34 Battle line  Yarmouth is  "Thief"  
35 "Nevermore"  45 Bailer's need  55 Ring contest  
speaker  47 Temporary  59 Free (of) 
36 Like neon  money  
39 Moth-eaten  48 Wake up  so"Am ...?"  believe  
41 Stopper  49 Copier need  61 Part of a slot­ 
42 Ticked off  50 Singer Simon  car track  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEHRITIES HORN ON TillS BAY: Jack Osbourne, 20; Tara Reid, 30; Bonnie Railt, 56; LcifGarr~tt. 44 
Happy llirthday: You may lind it diflicult to make a decision this year. Your cr~ativ~ ability, however, will be hitting a high point, so don't let your emotions keep you from following through. Someone will be deceitful about how he or she really feels about you. Let your intuition be your guide. Don't second-guess yourself. Your numbers arc 3, 8, 16, 22, 34,42 
ARIES (Murch 21-Apri119): An unusual financial oppm1tmity will tempi you, but don't be too quick to make a move. Someone will be complimentary and eager to plea~e. Take advantage of what's being oflcred. remembering that nothing will be straightforward today. •••• TAVl~VS (April 20-Muy 20): Someone who is paying attclllion to you may be trying to fool you. Emotional matters will crop up. Don't make a decision; hold off until you feel more certain about the outcome. •• GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): A chance to do something creative is likely to he lucrative f()r you. Conc~rning love: You can discuss what is troubling you and get answers that will put your mind at case. ••••• CANCER (.June 21-July 22): Money can h~: made if you give your all to a prqiect. A love connection will prove to b~ hotter than you thought. An old friend or lover will influence your way of thinking. ••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Be completely honest with yourself as well as others today. Slipping up will not be rcd~cmahl~. Everything will count, so don't tl)' to overstep your hounds. It's better to do less and do it well .... VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Focus on satisfaction and enhancing your reputation. By going back to places where you felt comfortable, you wi II he able to successfully make the future changes required. • •• LIJIRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will have quite an eye for things today. Money can he made in an unusual way. Someone you least expect will help you out. Younger people in your life will clarify things for you. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): It is likely that someone will try to withhold information or give you a false impression today. Focus on the task at hand. Usc your creative imagination to make whatever you arc working on original. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-l>ec. 21): Concentrate on the people in your life who support you. Secure your position by helping the very people who have helped you in the past. A trip may h~ suggested, but you can probably accomplish jusl as much by phone or e-mail. •••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Someone may II)' to g~t th~ better of you today. Don't donate or lend money. Be smart--anger will not be the answer to getting what you want. Instead, take positive action. • • • AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your need for change may lead to an unfortunate set ofcircumstances ifyou act in haste. Wager the pros and cons, and keep things in perspective. Don't let anyone exaggerate or gossip about you or your ahiliti<.'S. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You may be inclined to think that everyone around you has more or is doing better. Spend less time dwelling on what you don't have and more time trying to huild your confidence and your assets. It's time to start being yourself. ••• 
Birthday Buby: You arc talented, innovative and have a very vivid imagination. You are impulsive, visual and extremely persuasive. You have a magnetic quality that helps you get what you want. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fun. eugenia/ast.comj;,r cm1fidential consultutitms 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip_______ 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, November 9, 2005 
page 24 

Irish have disappointing loss at Lady Jaguar Invitational 
Torin Francis blocks a shot against lewis in Notre Dame's 2005 season opener at the Joyce Center on Nov. 3. 
FOOTBALL 

Midshipmen bring a strong running game in quest for bowl bid 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 

Every year, it's the same line ­this Notre Dame team doesn't want to See Also be the one that "Quinn named loses to Navy 
a finalist for

for the first time since prestigious Navy Heisman O'Brien Trophy winner 
Award"

R o g e r Staubach was page21 under center in 1963. 
And this year it's no different, 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 

After Notre Dame shot three straight rounds under 300 at the Las Vegas Collegiate Showdown last week, Irish coach Debby King was hopeful for a win against a much softer field in the Lady Jaguar Invitational at the Forest Hills Golf Club in Augusta, Georgia 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Carroll is off to strong start in junior season 
By GREG ARBOGAST Sports Writer 

After its dual meet victory over Pittsburgh last weekend, the women ' s swimming and diving team has many reasons to feel confi­dent about its prospects for the rest of the season. And one of the Carroll Irish's biggest sourees of confidence is the per­


..-
NHl 
w 
Co) Flyers 4 z Bruins 3 

.... 
::5 
Philadelphia won in
= 
c:z: overtime behind two 
goals by Joni Pikanen. 
!; 

page 16 
formance of junior swimmer Katie Carroll. 
Carroll has not just been swim­ming -she burst out of the gate this season, taking first place in seven events in only three meets so far this fall. This includes set­ting a new school reeord in the 200 freestyle with a time of 1:48.79. 
Two of her top times, the 
1:48.79 in the 200 freestyle and a 
4:16.53 in the 400 individual medley, are considered NCAA 'B' cut times, which put her in con­tention to qualify for the NCAA championships for the third con­
41, not done 

as No. 7 Notre Dame (6-2) tries to extend its 41-game winning streak against Navy, a matchup that has been played every year since 1927. 
"They better think that way," Irish head coach Charlie Weis said of his team's mentality. "I think that way, so let's hope they're thinking that way. But, you know, I'm not looking at what happened the previous 41 games. I'm only looking at this game. That's all I'm looking at. I don't look in the past." 
This year both teams have a lot at stake. Notre Dame must win its next three games if it wants to be considered for a BCS bowl game, while Navy (5-3}, needs one win in its next three games to become bowl-eligible. A bowl bid for the Midshipmen would be the third consecutive 
see NAVY/page 21 
Monday and Tuesday. 
"We want to sandwich the fall season," King said Sunday prior to the tournament. "We won at the beginning [in the Notre Dame Invitational], and we want to win at the end." 
Unfortunately for King and the Irish, they could not accomplish their goal. Notre Dame posted two subpar rounds of 310 and 307 to finish second in the Lady Jaguar, 16 
see CARROLL/page 22 
MUJ-Nl 
Urbina held in Venezuela 
The Phillies pitcher was accused of attempt­ed murder in his home country. 
page 19 
strokes behind tournament host Augusta State. 
King attributed the drop in scores to inconsistent putting on Forest Hills' difficult greens. 
"The greens were tough," King said. "There were a lot of mounds in them and a lot of breaks." 
Freshman Lisa Maunu was one of the few bright spots for the Irish, posting a 73 on the second day for the lowest 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Francis familiar with role 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Assosicare Sports Editor 
Torin Francis knows a lot can change in a year. 
Last season, Francis, Chris Thomas, Chris Quinn and Jordan Cornette were ready to lead the Irish to the NCAA tournament. 
When Notre Dame was left out on selection Sunday and then lost in a first-round home game against Holy Cross in the National Invitation Tournament (NIT), those hopes quickly faded. 
Francis' team now looks very different. 
see FRANCIS/page 22 
NFL 
Ownes apologizes to teammates 
The problematic wide receiver pleaded for a second chance with the Eagles. 
page 19 

NFL 
No time for Colts to savor victory 
Peyton Manning won in Foxboro, but the 8-0 Colts still have work to do. 
page 18 MEN'S SWIMMING 
Team hits its highest rank ever 
By DAN MURPHY Sports Writer 
With last weekend's dramatic eome-from-behind victory against Pittsburgh, the men's swimming team moved to No. 18 in the nation, the highest ranking in the program's history. 
The Irish pulled ahead by win­ning 15 of a possible 17 points in the fmal relay of the meet. The win raised their record to 2-1 in dual meets this year. 
"The meet was the definition of a team win," junior Tim Kegelman said. "It really helped 
see SWIMMERS/page 21 

round of her career. 
"That's pretty awesome. We're very happy with her," King said. "She had a 75 in the home tournament [in September], but this is her best score all semester." 
Junior Noriko Nakasaki con­tinued to lead the Irish with her consistent play. She shot a 147 (74-73) for the two-day tournament and finished sec­ond overall, only one stroke behind Augusta State's Lauren Smith. 
Senior Katie Brophy, sopho­more Jane Lee and senior Lauren Gebauer rounded out the lineup for the Irish. Brophy shot a 157 (76-81), Lee shot a 159 (78-81) and Gebauer shot a 163 (80-83). 
Notre Dame was delayed in coming back to South Bend 
see GOLF/page 22 

MlB-Al 
Colon wins AL CyYoung Award 
Anaheim's ace battled injury late in the season but received the top honor for pitchers. 
page 17 
Observer 
NBA 
Lakers 103 Hawks 92 
Kobe Bryant scored 37 points in Atlanta as the Lakers won on the road. 
page 16 




