
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 


Saint Mary's set to inaugurate Mooney 
New president confronts College's enrollment, visibility challenges 
helm of the College for one Mary's recent struggle to gar­ment, our admissions,By MEGAN O'NEIL semester. ner national attention and increasing our classes," Assistant News Editor The inaugural weekend will attract applicants. This year's Mooney said. "That's some­
include a day-long academic freshman class had roughly thing I know we will be 
Saturday's presidential symposium moderated by fac­50 fewer students than the attacking soon." inauguration of Carol Mooney ulty members and a formal previous year's. Efforts so far have included officially marks new leader­induction ceremony. The cam­"It's difficult to convince a changes in recruiting tech­ship and a new course of pus will host dozens of guests 17-year old young woman niques and publications. The direction for Saint Mary's including Saint Mary's alum­that [she wants] to be in an College has also created a College. nae and representatives from all-women's college in north­new office at Saint Mary's ­
Mooney, a SeeA/so other colleges and universi­ern Indiana," Mooney said. the vice president for enroll­1972 Saint ties. The new president has ment management. The posi­
"A New Era"

Mary's gradu-While a celebratory and placed recruitment and tion's duties will include over­ate and its pullout hopeful mood for the future of increasing the visibility of the seeing admissions, financial 11th president, the College surrounds the College at the top of her to do aid and retention at the was selected to inauguration, Mooney is well list. College. replace predecessor Marilou aware of the challenges the "Marketing is a sort of dirty "We're fairly far along in the Eldred in December 2003 and position entails. word in academia but we do has already served at the First among these is Saint really need to attack enroll-see FUTURE/ page 4 

Former NO associate provost transitions into SMC role gracefully; reaches out to students 
"I am thrilled," she said. "It's was trying to do one and a half tunity, I hope, to get to know community. And I find that fun,
By NICOLE ZOOK a privilege, and it's humbling -jobs," she said. "Notre Dame most people at Saint Mary's. a challenge." 
Assistant News Editor 

but I couldn't be happier." was wonderful to me. I got That's just not really possible at Mooney has already begun to Mooney, a 1972 graduate of many opportunities, but I've Notre Dame." solve her challenge in the short If she is under any stress as the College and 1977 graduate never had a second glance Mooney will be working with months she has been working her big day approaches, Carol of the University of Notre Dame back.... It was hard to leave, both a smaller student popula­at Saint Mary's. She said she Mooney does not show it. Law School, was a law profes­but I've not had a moment's tion and fewer staff members works well with the presidential 
Sitting in the Sister Madeleva sor at Notre Dame before serv­regret a~ut doing so." than in her former role at Notre staff and has reached out to room in LeMans Hall, she ing as a Notre Dame vice presi­Mooney said that her transi­Dame, which she said will lead students throughout first gracefully shared answers and dent and associate provost. Her tion from Notre Dame to Saint to closer relationships. She semester. In the fall, she invited smiles with journalists from formal inauguration into her Mary's will hold some differ­looks forward to that aspect of each residence hall to an open several television stations and role as the first lay alumna ences, the most marked being her future at Saint Mary's. tea or dessert night. newspapers Thursday, reveal­president at Saint Mary's will the smaller size of the College "A person has a lot of con­"I decided that was a good ing no sign of strain regarding take place tomorrow and compared to the University. stituencies to pay attention to," way to try to get out into each her inauguration as the Sunday. "The biggest difference is just Mooney said. "Students, faculty, of the residence halls, so I went eleventh president of Saint "In one sense a transition the size of the two institutions," parents, alumni, donors, bene­Mary's College this weekend. occurred last spring, when I she said. "It gives me the oppor-factors -even the general see MOONEY/page 4 

Sri Lankan Notre Dame student addresses tragedy, loss 
Junior recalls scenes of tsunami's devastation 
By MEGHAN MARTIN News Writer 

Five weeks ago, Notre Dame junior Dina] Edirisinghe want­ed nothing more than to spend Christmas at a beach in his native Sri Lanka, some­thing that his family had done for years. llis parents, howev­er, had decided that they would celebrate the holidays in Amman, Jordan, where his father manages a textile fac­tory. 
"I complained to my parents about spending eight days in Jordan and not going to the bt1ach in Sri Lanka," Edirisinghe said. "If we were in Sri Lanka. we would have gone to our ancestral home in Galle [a city in the south of the country! for Christmas day. But we were lucky. We weren't in the country that day." 
Instead, Edirisinghe and his mother were on their way to catch a flight to Colombo, the Sri Lankan capital, when they received a phone call from his father warning them not to board the plane. It was Dec. 26, and Edirisinghe and his mother turned on the BBC to learn that a tsunami had hit their country, devastating miles of coastline and instant­ly leaving tens of thousands of people homeless. Edirisinghe and his mother listened in shock. 
"My initial reaction was, let's see if we can get home and do something," he said. "But if we did so, we would need to get back to the capi­tal, and that would divert resources. We decided, why do that? So we remained in Jordan for a few more days." 
While the Edirisinghe fami­ly's frantic efforts to contact friends and relatives in Sri Lanka proved largely futile in those first few days following the disaster, news reports provided them with informa­tion about the extent of the destruction. 
Twenty-seven thousand Sri Lankans, they learned, had been reported dead. 
''I'm sure there are 41,000 
see SRI LANKA/page 6 
Above, damage from the ­tsunami washes up on a Sri Lankan shoreline. At right, Sri Lanka native and Notre Dame student Dinal Edirisinghe.
•

PHOTOS BYTHE 
ASSOCIATED PRESS ANDCHUY BENITEZ 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, January 14, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Here's to you, Culligan m_an 
With nvnrybody back at Notre 
Damn artnr a long winter break, 
most students ean tell you some­
thing that they missed while away 
from school. Many people are glad 
to be baek with 
their friends. Steve Coyer 
Others missed 
South Bend spe­
cialties like Eggs Sports Vlire 
B1mndiet at the Editor 
dining hall or the 
smell of ethanol in the evening. 
For me personally, I am most grateful to have my nearly infinite supply of crisp clear Culligan water back. For those of you who don't know, Culligan spring water is delivered in five-gallon contain­ers and can be found in many ol'fiees and dorm rooms on cam­pus. Not only is it the most pure and refreshing water I know of, it also is dnlivnred by some of the most unsung heroes at Notre Dame. 
These workers ... no, that is not the right word ... I mean, legends deserve to be reeognized and I'm horn to toll thnir story. Forgive me if I seem to exaggerate but I assure you, those men do exist. 
Every two wonks my three room­mates and I go through about 30 gallons of Culligan water (six con­tainers) and at the end of those two wonks we anxiously await the arrival of a certain person. lie arrivns wlwn we lnast suspect and brings with him a large handeart ladnn with 40-pound jugs of water. 
Sometimes his name is Ben; ol.lwr timns it is Dan. Hegardless, he is always tlw Culligan man to us. 
Wnathnr conditions have n<wer stoppnd them from making the dnlivnry. Snow, fog, freezing rain and big puddlns are no obstacle for thesn warriors. 
Although my room is located on the third l'loor, this is hardly a challnngn for thn Culligan man. Evon when thn nlevator doesn't work, hn has been known to haul the watnr up thn stairs barnhand­nd. 
And his feats don't stop once he gets to tho room. Whiln it would be suiTicient to leave the water out­sidn our door, the Culligan man pnrsonally takns each of tho five gallon .i ugs and places thnm nnxt to our cooler. When one of my room­matns tried to lift two of thn jugs at oncn lw failnd nntirely ... dearly tw undnrnstimatnd tlw strnngth of the Culligan man. 
This pattPrn of' Culligan water d1div1~ry happPns all ovnr campus. To somn it might snnrn mundann and routinn. To nw, it is so much morn. My roonHnatns and I have eonw to rnly on a constant supply of' Culligan watnr and wn havo a dnnp appreciation for tho men who dnlivnr it to us. 
And I'm surn most pnople on campus havn their own "Culligan man," a person they rely on wnnk af'tl~r wonk and who novor gnts any roal rneognition. So for all those unsung lwroes, this one's for you. 
'/'he 11iews expressed in /.he Inside Column are those r~f' the author and not necessarily those of'11w Observer. 
Contact Ste11e Coyer at sr:oyer@lnd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives tor the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE BEST THING ABOUT WINTER BREAK? 

Anne Kroeger  Steve Friend  Taryn Lewis  Sarah Muscarella  Craig Peters  Michael Keller  
sophomore Badin  sophomore Fisher  freshman McGlinn  freshman Pangborn  sophomore St. Ed's  sophomore Dillon  
"Having no obligations."  "Showering without shoes. "  "Skyline, Chipotle and  "Not having parietals. "  "Family, friends and the heat."  "Knowing I'm coming back to  




the Cincinnati 
,
Bengals. 


Clean underwear saves man lost in woods 
ROGEHS, Ark. There's another reason Mom is right when she says you should always have a fresh pair of underwear. A city attor­ney learned last week that they can attract res­cue helicopters. 
Ben Lipscomb found himsell' lost in the flooded backwoods while out duck hunting with his Labrador retriever. 
lie only managed to make it out by tying his white briefs to the end of his gun barrel and waving them at an Arkansas State Police helicopter. 
Decked out in full cam­ouflage hunting gear, Lipscomb was practically invisible as the helicopter made several passes at dusk. 
"They had passed over me a couple of times," he said after he was safe and sound back behind his desk at City Ilall. "I knew I had to do something to get their attention." 
New Geneva toilets cost $300,000 each 
GENEVA -Switzerland is renowned as one of the richest, cleanest and most efficient countries in the world. 

Now, authorities in Geneva are bringing the city's public conveniences up to scratch -at a cost of $13 million for just 35 new toilets, Swiss daily Le Matin reported Tuesday. 
Each sparkling new facility is designed by a different architect at a cost of $313,000-about the same as a one-bed­room, city center apart­ment. 
Three of the toilets have already been installed. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

260 Flex Points." 

IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame women's swimming team takes on Michigan and Illinois at 6 p.m. tonight and at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow in the H.olfs Aquatic Center. 
The soon-to-be-released Miramax film "The Choir" ("Les Choristes") will be shown at 7 and 10 p.m. tonight in the Browning Theatre of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The film is nominated for a Best Foreign Film Golden <;lobe Award and will be pre­sented in Frnneh with English subtitles. Tickets must be reserved by calling 631-2800. 
The men's basketball team will compete against St. John's Saturday from at 2 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arnna. 
ND Cinnma will present the film "Sex is Comedy" Saturday at 7 and 10 p.m. in the Browning Cinema of' the DeBartolo Center for the Performing ·Arts. 
Kristi Anseth, winner of the 2004 National Seiencn Foundation Waterman Award, wilt lead a seminar called "Synthetic Hydrogel Niches for Cartilage Hegeneraiion" at 3:30 p.m. Monday in 138 Debartolo. 
The Town llall Meeting "And Still We Hise ... Hemembcl"ing is Not Enough" will take place at 7 p.m. Tuesday in the stu­d<mt lounge of the Coleman­Morsf1 Centnr. The event is in honor of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. day. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsn ews@n d. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH LOW 

21 15 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 0:: 
LIJ :::E: 
~ 
LIJ 

~ 
...... 
<t 
(.) 



HIGH HIGH
..J 0 23 10 LOW 3 LOW -2 

HIGH LOW 

12 
-5 
Atlanta 50 I 36 Boston 48 I 27 Chicago 16 I 3 Denver 30 I 8 Houston 56 I 32 Los Angeles 69 I 47 Minneapolis -1 1-20 New York 49 I 26 Philadelphia 48 I 26 Phoenix 67 I 44 Seattle 36 I 24 St. louis 24 I 10 Tampa 74 I 60 Washington 50 I 28 
Friday, January 14, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Dalltnayr publishes book on peace talks 
Special to The Observer 
In his "Querela Pacis" (The Complaint of Peace), the 16th century scholar Desiderius Erasmus employed a conven­tional literary device of his time to endow peace with a person­ality and voice. Fred Dallmayr, l'aekey J. Dee Professor of Political Th€1ory at the University of Notre Dame, has taken up the theme in his book, "Peace Talks -Who Will Listen'?" which recently was 
published  by  Notre  Dame  
Press.  
In  Erasmus' work,  Peace  

challenges the reader to explain how "if I, whose name is Peace, am a personage glori­fied by the united praise of God and man. as the fountain, the parent, the nurse, the patroness, the guardian of every blessing which either heaven or earth can bestow ... can I believe !proponents of warl to be otherwise than stark mad; who, with such a waste of tn~asure, with so ardent a zeal, with so great an effort, with so many arts, so much anxiety, and so much danger, endeavor to drive me away from them, and purchase endless misery and mischief at a price so high'?" 
Dallmayr articulates Erasmus' challenge in more contemporary terms, applying it to the evolution of interna­tional law and global ethics and alluding to similar expressions in such widely varied writings as those of Francisco de Vitoria, Immanuel Kant, Hannah Arednt, Confucius, Ibn Arabi, and Jalal ad-Din Rumi. 
According to Calvin Schrag of Purdue University, Dallmayr provides "a vibrant contempo­rary voice in the proliferating multicultural conversation of mankind" which "makes the strongest case yet for a peace­making culture that would be able to restrain the war machine mentality of our pres­ent age." 
Hobert C. Johansen, profes­sor of political science and sen­ior fellow at Notre Dame's Kroc Institute for International Studies, said that Dallmayr's book "opens our minds and hearts to an urgent, timely message of how to think about making peace. With penetrat­ing insights and fascinating exploration, he shows that this message, which must be heed­ed if our species is to survive with dignity, has timeless roots that he vividly brings to light while drawing deftly on tradi­tions at once ancient and mod­ern, Western and Eastern, and from the global North and South." 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1978, Dallmayr specializes in modern and con­temporary European thought as well as in comparative phi­losophy and non-Western polit­ical thought, cross-cultural dia­logue, and global human rights. 
Course to exarrtine corrting trends 
'Ten Years Hence' to look at next decade 
Special to The Observer 
The year was 1995 and the world was at relative peace, President Bush had been out of office for two years, gasoline was. considered expensive at $1.30 per gallon, and dot.coms were becoming all the rage. 
Few would have thought that 10 years later the United States would be waging war on two fronts, President Bush's son would be starting a second-term in the Oval Office, gas would be going for $2-plus, and dot.com would be more like dot.bomb. 
V\'hile no one in '95 could have predicted these specific events, perhaps general patterns could have been foreseen, which is the premise behind a new course at the University of Notre Dame that will examine what's on the horizon between now and 2015. 
Titled "Ten Years lienee," the 1.5-credit course will bring eight forward-thinkers to campus throughout the spring semester to explore issues, ideas and trends likely to affect society and business over the next decade. Specific topics will include biotechnology, religious funda­mentalism, economic demogra­phy, oil and peace, futurism and work, and natural resources. 
"We hope to give students, faculty and guests a sense of the near future and the possibilities that lie in store for us by the year 2015," said James S. O'Rourke, a management pro­fessor and one of the course's ilistructors. "The speakers we have lined up will assist stu­dents in understanding emerg­ing issues related to demogra­phy, science, sociology, econom­ics, anthropology, commerce and technology, and how they will affect our lives over the next 10 years." 
The series will begin at 10:40 
a.m. Jan. 14 (Friday) in Jordan Auditorium with a lecture by Eric Peterson titled "Seven Revolutions." The senior vice president for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Peterson directs the Seven Revolutions Initiative, a broad-based effort to forecast key trends out to 2025. 




Professor places 14th in contest 
'Market maestro' Plummer shines in Barron's stock challenge 
Special to The Observer 
Carolyn Plummer, the University of Notre Dame's "market maestro," finished in 14th place in a nationwide stock-picking contest spon­sored by the weekly invest­ment magazine Barron's. 
A violinist and associate pro­fessor of music, Plummer scored a 13.4 percent return in the 10-week Barron's Challenge in which 69 college professors invested an imagi­nary $100,000 portfolio. 
By comparison, the Dow rose 
6.1 percent, the Nasdaq climbed 14 percent, and the S&P was up 8.2 percent over the course of the contest from Oct. 1 to Dec. 15. 
Though she emphasizes she's no expert, Plummer is a longtime investor, who, when not making music, often can be found analyzing financial reports and studying expert opinions. 
Plummer's twin sister, Kathryn, a viola professor at Vanderbilt University, also par­ticipated in the Barron's Challenge and -thanks to some tips from the more expe­rienced Carolyn -topped her twin with an 11th-place finish on a 15.6 percent rate of return. 
The magazine also conduct­ed a separate contest for col­lege students. 

page 4 The Observer + NEWS Friday, January 14, 2005 
Mooney 
continued from page 1 
there and whoever wanted to show up showed up," Mooney said. ''I've been to a number of events -I've been to a basket­ball game [this winter[, and I love having students stop and see me. I 'II be at the dance Sunday night. I'm looking for­ward to that." 
The "Now and Then"-themed event was planned by students in honor of Mooney's time as a Saint Mary's student herself. She looks fondly on her years as an undergraduate student, when she loved "my courses and my friends." 
"I thought I got an absolutely first-rate edueation here," Mooney said. "I had great courses here. I was an English literature major and I worked really hard h!~re." 
Mooney will be personally handing out raffle prizes and getting to know students who attnnd the dance. She also said slw is eager for today's acadnm­ie symposium, whieh she her­self' insisted on. 
"I wanted to showcase the aeadmnie excellence at Saint Mary's, so we'rn having two outside speaknrs, four Saint Mary's faculty, and two students are speaking," she said. ''I'm very excited about that." 
Associated Press 
PASADENA. Calif. -NASA's Deep Impact comet-busting spacecraft emerged from "safe mode" and wa.•; operating normal­ly, the spaee agency said Thursday. 
The spacecraft went into pro­tective mode after Jauneh Wednesday from Cape Canaveral, Fla., when it deteeted higher­than-expected temperaturns in il'> propulsion system. 
Safe mode shuts down all but essential systems whilfl the space­crall await'> new commands from controlh~rs. 
While in safe mode, Deep Impact did perfiJrm essential tasks 

However, Mooney seemed nwst animated about the cere­mony Saturday afternoon. 
"I think what I'm most look­ing forward to is actually the installation ceremony itself," she said. "It's kind of like a wedding ceremony. I imagine I will ery. I eried all the way through my wedding vows, and there's a bunch of 'I do's' here, and I probably will start crying again. And that's okay." 
Mooney said her entire family will be attending, including her husband and four daughters ranging in age from 22 to 26, all of whom attended Notre Dame. The two youngest daughters are still students there, and will make the trek across the street to celebrate with their mother. Also attend­ing will be dignitaries and pres­idents from several other col­leges, and Saint Mary's class­mates Mooney invited from all over the United States. 
"I really wanted to share this with all of them," she said. "It's just great." 
Despite the many aetivities of the weekend and the hectic mood on campus, Mooney 

Future 
continued from page I 
admissions process here, and looking at our numbers right now we're quite hopeful that we're going to have a sig­nificantly larger class," Mooney said. 
Even the recognition Saint Mary's has received in past years has been somewhat tainted. Saint Mary's has fin­ished No. 1 in the annual U.S. News and World Report's "America's Best Colleges" in 10 out of the last 11 years. However, it was listed in a cat­egory called "Midwestern com­prehensive colleges," which is composed of institutions offer­ing professional degrees. 
·'The 'comprehensive college' rankings are really controver­sial here," Mooney said. "It's been wonderful to be No. 1 in that category 10 out of 11 years, but a lot of our alumnae are very disappointed that is the category that we are in." 
According to Mooney, her 

remains ealm and pleased with her role at her former and future College. 
"''m really happy to be here," 


Spill affects Alaskan community 
she said. 
Contact Nicole Zook at  Associated Press  
zook8928@saintmarys.edu  
ANCHORAGE, Alaska ­ Fuel  

oil from the Selendang Ayu has reached a fishing community 50 miles from the wreckage of the 
grounded freighter, prompting new concerns about the effect of last month's spill in the Bering Sea. 
Cotnet-busting craft 
etnerges frotn safe tnode 
State environmental workers goal, and that of the College's, should be to aim for a top 50 national liberal arts college standing. 

"That's where I think we belong. It doesn't mean you need to abandon your nursing or education programs," Mooney said. "I think that's the company we belong in, and that's where we should be." 
The new presi­dent must also 
"/think that's the 
ensure the finan­cial stability of company we belong the College. Due 
in, and that's 
to lower enroll­
where we should
ment and increasing oper­be. " ating costs, Saint Mary's is cur­
Carol Mooney
rently facing a 
Saint Mary's College 
budget deficit of $1.5 million dol­president lars that it plans to absorb over a 
two-year period. Departments have been forced to freeze travel funds and cut printing expenses. 
According to Mooney, the administration will have to reach out to alumnae and 
time the oil has reaehed such a populated area. 
"Obviously the extent of con­tamination has grown substan­tially," Leslie Pearson, a spill response official with the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation, said Thursday. "It makes you wonder what other shoreline impacts there may be." 
Since the oil was reported to the state Wednesday, the agency has been trying to assess the threat to the local water table and area seafood processing plants, Pearson said. 
The 738-foot Selendang Ayu, a 

summer," Grammier, the Deep Impact proj­eet manager at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. 
The spacecraft will release an "impactor" that is designed to col­



BUY YOUR TEXTBOOKS
lide with the comet and produce a crater the size of a football stadi­um. That should allow instru­
AT L COM
ments aboard the spacecraft to study material beneath the comet's surface. The mission cost 
AND SAVE UP TO 40o/o OFF* THE UST PRICE.
$330 million. 
other potential donors to inerease giving to the College. 
"The way to do that is you build relationships," Mooney said. "You're out on the road, you get to know them, you talk to them. You tell them the story of Saint Mary's; you tell them about all the good things that are happening here. That's actually the fun part of 
the job." 
Six months into her adminis­tration Mooney's presence is already felt on campus. She has visited every sin­gle residence hall and answered stu­dents' questions about her visions for the institu­tion and her own 

experiences as an undergradu­ate. She has also spent after­noons with various depart­ments and offices. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
freighter carrying soybeans and 442,000 gallons of fuel oil and diesel, broke apart Dec. 8 off Unalaska Island after efforts to stop the disabled vessel failed. Six of the ship's crew members were lost at sea when a rescue helicopter crashed. 
Salvage crews have recovered nearly 43,000 gallons of oil and water from the ship, but most of the fuel is believed lost. Smaller balls of oil have been spotted in remote areas. 
About 600 dead birds have been spotted near the spill site, said Petty Officer Thomas McKenzie of the Coast Guard. 

including deploying and locking its solar panels, NASA said. The craft was receiving power and was propnrly oriented in space. 
"We're back on [the timeline] and look forward to our encounter with comet Tempel 1 this said Rick found as many as two dozen clumps of oil -some measuring two feet in diameter -along a quarter-mile stretch of Captain's Bay at the southern end of Dutch Harbor, a community of 4,000 on Unalaska Island. It's the first 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
MUSIC FOR TWO GAMBAS AND ORGAN 
Mary Anne Ballard, viola da gamba Elizabeth MacDonald, viola da gamba Craig Cramer, organ 
Music by 

JOHANN SCHENCK AUGUST KDHNEL DIETERICH BUXTEHUDE 
JAN PIETERSZOON SWEELINCK 
8:00p.m. Friday, January 14, 2005 
Reyes Organ and Choral Hall Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
General admission $10; faculty Istaff $8; seniors $6; students $3 phone 574-631-2800 for tickets 

How great is this? Find great savings on newor used textbooks you need this semester. Go to half.com and enter the titles or ISBN numbers. That's it! 
---------~---------------· 
Save $ 
an additional on apurchase of $50 or more. 
.COm™ 
Redeem this coupon by entering this code: 
NOTREDAME2005 



bvEtjl{'
athalf.com 
4r-----------------------­
1 
., 
1 'Cia1m based on compansan of average selling price (exclvdR'\9 shippU'ft) and handling) lor top 10% of textbOoks (by un~ volume) SQid on Haff.COOl fiom '1.·. Augu~ 1st-September 11, 2004 an~ listed as 'brand new' by the seller. v~th list price for same Iitle. TextbOOks are defined as un~ergraduale and graduate teJitllooks and axciude reference bOOks alld n~iaiHI4rature 
., "Off!n31ol let Sl oil oP'J<Jl."' rlt<() or""""1>111""' oory 01re! "lkl r~f"l ~ll<illiY'" oruy. 0<>11"1'81<" ,;,., t< o"""""'ol$0000 t<i<re '"' d<""'m • "'~!OJ om'""11<1"""' Slijl· 
ping, M~~ug, l(I~~Sormwll:l}.~1. TlMCJ.."'lr.«>carmil!OOt!ffiilir:E>!!w'#.\anytl:lE:rtoopil!1. diS(.CllfltQ!I\:r.Qtliil!;;lle,(lrprO!'OO'!~ Aoyp.~iWilifldl'lii!IDII:'trt.!~ th!! COOJIO!l mbt~f. mJI! , ~v.1w~eprr~~.Op!!:!l®ly!QUS:.rer~r:l~ fa~.&:!.r:f.a~eO!'tlilref. Pmmr.4inr.wr.~~tot-Wti.tltK.I!Ilt!lire. Of!i!f~.xo;~rmMm.~:\1. l®Sa; 11 ~·59 EST 
., ~1004eBay;oc . . 




ORLD & NATION 
Friday, January 14, 2005 CoMPl LED fROM THE OssERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Malaria threat emerges in Asia 
BANDA ACEH, Indonesia -Health officials plan to go door to door and tent to tent with mosquito-killing spray guns beginning Friday to head off a looming threat that one expert says could kill 100,000 more people around the tsunami disaster zone: malaria. 
The devastation and heavy rains are creat­ing conditions for the largest area of mosqui­to breeding sites Indonesia has ever seen, said the head of the aid group anchoring the anti-malaria campaign on Sumatra island. The pools of salt water created by the Dec. 26 tsunami have been diluted by seasonal rains into a brackish water that mosquitoes love. 
While the threat of cholera and dysentery outbreaks is diminishing by the day because clean water is increasingly getting to tsuna­mi survivors, the danger of malaria and dengue fever epidemics is increasing, said Hichard Allan, director of the Mentor Initiative, a public health group that fights malaria epidemics. 
Black Hawk helicopter crashes 
BOGOTA, Colombia -A U.S.-donated mil­itary helicopter crashed Thursday while fly­ing in thick fog during a nighttime coun­ternarcoties mission in southwest Colombia, killing all 20 soldiers aboard, the army said. 
The Black Hawk helicopter, used in the U.S.-funded anti-drug effort called Plan Colombia, went down just after midnight near the village of Manguipayan, 340 miles southwest of the capital, Bogota. 
Early investigations indicate the crash was caused by bad weather, the army said in a statement. An army official said the problem was "thick fog." 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Search ends in mudslide zone 
LA CONCHITA, Calif. -Authorities ended the search Thursday for victims of the deadly mudslide and warned residents not to return to the town because of the danger of another collapse. 
The death toll stood at 10 in the beach community devastated by Monday's torrent of dirt and trees, and everyone on the list of missing people had been located. 13 homes were destroyed and 18 others were dam­aged. 
"The La Conchita community is a geologi­cally hazardous area," Sheriff Bob Brooks said. "It has been historically, it is today, and it will remain so. We do not recommend that people return to this area or the people who stay here remain here." 
FDA reconsiders Mevacor sales 
BETHESDA, Md. -Vast numbers of people would take a cholesterol drug if it were offered over the counter even though they don't meet the medical criteria, federal health advisers were told Thursday. 
The cholesterol drug Mevacor has long been available by prescription. Drug compa­nies are now asking the Food and Drug Administration for permission to sell a low­dose version directly to consumers for the first time. 
The advisory committee that is meeting through Friday will make a recommendation to the FDA, which usually follows its panels' advice. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indy man gets 95 years for murder 
INDIANAPOLIS -A Marion County judge this morning sentenced Steven D. Halcomb to 95 years in prison for killing his former wife, Karen Jo Smith, a woman whose body has never been found. 
Smith's loved ones left the courtroom teary-eyed but smiling after Superior Court Judge Jane Magnus-Stinson gave Halcomb the maximum 65-year sentence for murder and another 30 years for being a habitual offender. 


Defense in prison scandal rests case 
Attorneys end their case without accused ringleader of abuses taking stand 
Associated Press 
FORT HOOD, Texas ­The defense for Spc. Charles Graner Jr. rested its case Thursday with­out the accused ring­leader of abuses at the Abu Ghraib prison taking the stand. 
The jury of four Army officers and six senior enlisted men was expect­ed to begin deliberating after closing arguments Friday. 
Graner's lawyers had indicated earlier that Graner would probably be the final witness, and that he would offer his version of what oceurred in a scandal that stirred outrage against the United States around the world. 
But defense lawyer Guy Womaek said the other witnesses provided all of the evidence necessary to make the case that military and civilian intelligence agents con­trolled Abu Ghraib and ordered Graner to soften up detainees for ques­tioning. 
"We came in with a checklist of things we wanted to present to the jury," Womack said. "Once we accomplished that, there was no rea­son to continue." punched one man in the your friend to go to were doing a good job 
Graner, a 36-year-old head hard enough to jail?" asked Maj. Michael and that breaking al­reservist from knock him out, and Holley, the prosecutor. Qaida would save a lot of Uniontown, Pa., is the struck an injured prison­"No, sir," she lives," she said. first soldier to be tried er with a collapsible answered. Another time, she said, on charges arising from metal stick.. Ambuhl, who made a two military intelligence the Abu Ghraib scandal. In testimony Thursday, plea deal with prosecu­officers told Graner to He had appeared glum in a former guard at Abu tors regarding her own physically abuse a pris­recent days, but outside Ghraib testified that actions at Abu Ghraib, oner in a shower. court he said: "I feel fan­intelligence officers testified that intelligence Ambuhl also said she tastic. I'm still smiling." wanted detainees officers directed the lied to investigators who 
He is charged with roughed up there, and prison's guards to rough sought to search her offenses including con­that Graner did not take up and sexually humili­personal computer for spiracy, assault and com­part in a number of the ate detainees, and that photos and other evi­mitting indecent acts and abuses he is accused of the guards were praised dence of abuse. could get 17 1/2 years in committing. for their efforts. Sgt. Kenneth Davis a military prison. But the witness, former On one occasion, she later told the jury about 
Among other things, Spc. Megan Ambuhl, said, an intelligence offi­an incident in which Graner is accused of admitted under cross­cer known as Steve told intelligence officers stacking naked detainees examination that she guards to "break" a pris­stripped three detainees in a human pyramid and had had a brief sexual oner known as al-Qaida, accused of raping a later ordering them to relationship with Graner who was believed to teenage boy at Abu masturbate while other and remains a close have valuable informa­Ghraib and forced them soldiers took photo­friend. tion. to crawl around the graphs. He also allegedly "And you don't want "Steve told us that we prison floor. 




Gaza Strip suicide bombing kills 4 
and Islamic Jihad to agree to a utes before it was to close, the Israeli 

Associated Press 
cease-fire, but so far with no suc­military said. As the explosives deto­GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip -cess. nated, at least two gunmen stormed 
Palestinian militants set off a large The bombing also came just hours the Israeli positions truck bomb as gunmen stormed an after a West Bank Hamas leader said It was not immediately clear Israeli base at a vital Gaza crossing the Islamic group might consider an whether the bombing was a suicide 
Thursday, killing at least four end to attacks against Israel. Hamas attack. One report said the gunmen Israelis and three Palestinians in an was one of three militant groups blew themselves up, but a,nother attack that defied peace efforts by claiming responsibility for the said they opened fire and were killed new Palestinian leader Mahmoud attack, dubbing it "Shaking Castles." by Israeli soldier Abbas. Palestinian officials were not Early Friday, Israeli helicopters 
The attack, which hospital officials immediately available for comment. fired three missiles at a building in said wounded five Israelis, was by The attack took place just before Deir el-Balah in central Gaza, far the largest since Abbas won an 11 p.m. Gaza time at the Karni Palestinian security officials and the election Sunday to succeed Yasser crossing, where all the farm produce Israeli military said. The building, Arafat as head of the Palestinian and other goods enter and leave the which was empty, is used by Islamic Authority. Abbas has been trying to Gaza Strip. The militants entered the Jihad, they said. One person was persuade militant groups like Hamas crossing in a bomb-laden truck min-slightly wounded. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Friday, January 14, 2005 
eel Wednesday that donor have died from the civil war friends and colleagues to plan 
countries pledged $717 mil­alone, before the tsunami fundraising and awareness 
lion to a relief appeal made by struck the island in December. events on Notre Dame's eam­
the United Nations after the Edirisinghe said that the sit­pus. A film screening is 
disaster. Edirisinghe said that uation appears to him as already in the works. 
help from both outside groups though history is repeating "I see myself as a messen­
and Sri Lankan citizens has itself. ger, as bringing out the mes­
combined to create a sense of "The last time something sage," he said. "IIere there 
hope amid the despair of his huge like this happened is in are people who genuinely 
countr-y's situation. legend. Twenty-three hundred care. To see that, all I had to 
"There are 25 years ago," he do was look in my e-mail people who work said. "They say inbox only four days arter the in my father's "The best way to the sea came tsunami. People even contact­factory whose into the land and ed my rector and have
honor the dead is 

families are no the mother of Sri stopped me on the quad to see
to help the living. 

longer. They left Lanka's greatest how I'm doing.... l feel fortu­the country for The worst moment k i n g ' nate and humbled." 
three years to Dutugemunu, Still, the transition from the
is the turn of the 

send money back was a sacrifice devastation of Sri Lanka to
tide."

to their parents to the gods .... the everyday college life of and families in She was sent to Notre Dame ha·s not been Sri Lanka. What Dinal Edirisinghe another king and without its moments of ten­is the purpose of their son was sion.
student 

their !lives] any­the one who "It's like corning into two more if their united the coun­different worlds: you come to loved ones aren't there?" he try, because it was then divid­Notre Dame and everyone's so said. "The best way to honor ed into four parts." happy and everything's so the dead is to help the living. The story, Edirisinghe said, ordered," Edirisinghe said. The worst moment is the turn gives people hope. "Sri Lanka was of the tide." · "A lot of people like one big In a eountry as rife with now say this is like funeral.
"It's like coming 

political, ethnic and religious history repeating There's such a.
into two different

conflict as Sri Lanka has itself. That incident lot of sadness found itself in recent years, was followed by Sri worlds: you come on an island Edirisinghe said only hope Lanka's brightest that's so bPau­
to Notre Dame and 

would allow the divided time. It is when the . tiful." 
everyone's so

nation to repair its differences sea came in that Sri Yet, with the and begin the slow recovery Lanka found its happy and collective from this tragedy. greatest moment. everything's so efforts ol' inter­"I think the best way you So a lot of people national aid
ordered. Sri Lanka 

can honor the people who are hopeful," he groups and have died," he said, "is to said. "Don't get me was like one big everyday citi­make sure they have not died wrong, though, funeral." z e n s , in vain -to make something they are still very Edirisinghe is good come from it." depressed." hopeful for the 
Dina! Edirisinghe 

The northern and part of Edirisinghe future of Sri the eastern regions of Sri returned to student Lanka. Lanka have been held for Siegfried Hall to "It may be more than two decades by finish his junior the darkest Tamil rebels, who have year this month. Ilis role now, hour," he said, "but it will clashed with the Sri Lankan he said, is to educate as many pave the way for the brightest government over the leader­people as possible about Sri light." ship of their homeland in the Lanka's situation in the wake north. The Associated Press of the tsunami. lie has Contact Mcghan Martin at reported that 65,000 people already gathered a number of mmartin@nd.cdu 
She was 28." 

Amid the loss and confusion
Sri Lanka 

of such tragedy, Edirisinghe continued from page I said his first instinct was to do anything he eould to help 
traged ins I now I," in the relief effort. His first Edirisinghe said. "Thoro are task was to deliver more than probably also thousands upon 500 letters from Sri Lankan thousands of survivals. I had workers in his father's Jordan five cousins vaeationlng in textile factory to the compa­eoastal areas. One cousin held ny's headquarters for distri­his twins and hung on to a bution to family and friends at tombstone as the waves went home. through .... Another guy held "I have a little ritual when I his son above his head ... as get ol'f the plane. I touch the the water was gushing I by!. ground and do the sign of the Those are just some of the cross," Edirisinghe said. "And stories." then we !deliver] the letters." 
More stories of both tragedy Edirisinghe's house in and survival Colombo was revealed them­untouched by the selves after "/ had five cousins wave, which 
I\dirisinghe and allowed him and
vacationing in 

his mother many of his
coastal areas. One

arrived in friends to con­Colombo -two cousin held his tribute to the days arter they relief effort.
twins and hung

had initially "I went home 
onto a tombstone

been seheduled and packed up all to return. as the waves went the clothes I had "Tiwre was a and sent them [to
through."

train we heard the places where about ealled they were need­<) u (l(l n 0 f t he Dina! Edirisinghe ed!," Edirisinghe Sea," he said. "I student said. "Everyone rode on it wlwn did that." I was young. During his time Waves earnn and took the at horne before returning to train off its tracks. One boy Notre Dame to begin the survived -he was seven.... spring semester, Edirisinghe But he buried the rest of his said that he was rarely able to rami ly... see friends who had also 
While 1\dirisinghe and his returned home for the break. parents had escaped the Many of them had gone to the tsunami, they returned to Sri town of Beruwela to pass out Lanka to find that close dry rations and assist aid friends had been reported workers. missing in the wake of the "It's amazing to see how tragedy. people are doing such things 
"Before Notre Dame, on their own," he said. "And thought about entnring the the way the international law faculty in Sri Lanka," community responded was 1\dirisinghe said. "A friend unbelievable ... the whole who had advised me on the world is helping out." decision was washed away. The New York Times report­Friday, January 14, 2005 



MARKET 
RECAP 

Dow 10 505.83 -111.95 
}ones ' 
d~} 
·· Up: Same: : Composite Volum 1,514 164 1,509,981,824 
AMfX L400.60 +3~62 
NASDAQ 2,070.56 -21.97 
NYSE 7,028.67 -46.97 
S&PSOO 1' 177.45 -10.25 
NIKKEI(Tol<yo) 11,358.22 0.00 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,800.30 +16.7( 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) +3.03 +0.19 6.46 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.90 -0.51 26.27 SUN MICROSYS INC (SUNW) -0.65 -0.03 4.58 INTEL CP (INTC) -1.47 -0.34 22.82 INTEL CP (lTC) +22.28 +3.79 20.80 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.31 -0.15 47.71 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.19 -0.08 42.36 5-YEAR NOTE -0.22 -0.08 37.03 3-MONTH BILL -0.43 -0.10 22.92 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.12 46.65 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) +4.20 422.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.65 95.53 
Excha Rates 
YEN I 02.4400 EURO 0.7566 POUND 0.5315 CANADIAN$ 1.2015 
IN BRIEF 

Feds extend US Airways financing 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. -US Airways will have .the cash it needs to keep flying through June after a bankruptcy judge approved a deal Thursday between the struggling airline and the federal Air Transportation Stabilization Board. 
An interim financing deal had been set to expire Saturday, but U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stephen Mitchell gave his blessing to an exten­sion through June 30. 
By then, the airline, the nation's seventh­biggest carrier, hopes it will have found a new investor to provide hundreds of millions of dollars needed to emerge from bankruptcy protection. 
The extension comes after US Airways, a unit of US Airways Group Inc., extracted more than $800 million in annual concessions from its labor unions. Most unions reluctantly agreed to accept pay and benefit cuts, but Mitchell last week imposed an estimated $269 million in concessions on the International Association of Machinists when that union failed to reach a deal. 
Airline to begin serving Hawaii 
DALLAS -Southwest Airlines Co. will sell seats on ATA Airlines flights to Hawaii and other U.S. locations starting next month, the Dallas-based carrier said Thursday. 
All connections between the two airlines would be made at Chicago's Midway Airport, leaving travel to the islands incon­venient for West Coast customers. Southwest CEO Gary Kelly said his airline would consider adding connecting cities in the West, mentioning Las Vegas as a possi­bility. 
The airlines will start selling seats on each other's flights Sunday under a so­called code-sharing agreement. The code­share flights are to begin Feb. 4. 
Besides Honolulu, other ATA destinations that will be linked with some Southwest flights through Chicago are New York's LaGuardia Airport; Newark, N.J.; Boston; Beagan National Airport outside Washington, D.C.; Ft. Myers, Sarasota and St. Petersburg, Fla.; Minneapolis; Denver; and San Francisco. 



THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 
page 7 

Retailer begins new campaign 
Wal-Mart introduces initiative to counter criticism of employment policies 
Associated Press 

LITTLE ROCK, Ark.­Wal-Mart chief executive • 
..I 
Lee Scott led a media charge Thursday to count­I I er criticism that the I 
I 
world's largest retailer is a behemoth that takes advantage of its workers and stifles competition. 
Scott said he wants Wal­Mart workers to know the company was speaking up for them, and he wants Wal-Mart to have a better handle on how it is per­ceived by the public. 
The company bought full-page ads in more than 100 newspapers around the nation to highlight its message that it provides opportunity for advance­ment and that its stores provide mainly full-time jobs with a broad benefits package. 
"We want to get those myths ofT the table, set the record straight," Scott said in a phone interview. He was in New York City for a round of media interviews. 

But a union critic of the discount chain said Thursday the company was ignoring social costs created by its megastores. The United Food and Commercial Workers Union, which has been striving for years to organ­ize Wal-Mart workers, said States, making it the said. detractors. the company was bending nation's largest private That's true of some Wal­"Any time you don't the truth. employer. Scott said Wal­Mart shoppers but not answer (criticism). you're 
Union spokesman Greg Mart gives communities most, said Jim Rice, chief going to suffer damage," Denier said Wal-Mart may stable jobs, and workers credit officer at Bernard Rice said, noting Wal-Mart count about three-fourths have advancement oppor­Sands Retail Performance often has let its critics of its workers as full time, tunities and benefits that Monitor in New York. speak and not mounted a but said those employees include stock purchases, a "I don't think a majority defense. "This will have a do not get full 40-hour 401(k) retirement plan and of shoppers pay attention positive effect." weeks. He said the health discount cards. to either the charges or to Shares of Wal-Mart insurance the company Scott said the company Wal-Mart's defense," Rice Stores Inc. fell 44 cents to touts is too expensive and wants to take its message said. "If Wal-Mart has $53.64 on the New York does not provide enough directly to its customers good selection and good Stock Exchange Thursday, coverage for illnesses that and their communities. prices, they'll keep shop­when most stocks were are short of catastrophic. "Customers trust us, and ping." pressured by higher oil 
Wal-Mart has 1.2 million they want to know their But Rice said Wal-Mart prices and concerns over employees in the United trust is well-placed," he was right to respond to its the economy. 


Small businesses will hire in 2005 
expanding their staffs while they vention and food safety firm to
Associated Press 

waited for the right business condi­increase its hiring plans, human 
NEW YORK -At this time last tions -sales, cash flow and a sense resources director Mark Moser said. year, Randy Herz wasn't planning to of confidence and optimism in their While Steritech's business has add any new employees at his estate customers and clients. grown in the past few years, the planning and asset management These business owners are part of company was conservative in its hir­firm. He thought it would be more the hiring trend across the country. ing because many of its customers prudent to invest money in technolo­The nation's employers, many of are in the hospitality industry that gy. whom are small businesses, are was hit hard after the Sept. 11, 
Now, Herz said he expects to hire adding jobs at a steady pace, said 2001, terror attacks, Moser said. three or four people by the end of William Dunkelberg, chief economist Moser said the company has con­the first quarter, joining his current with the National Federation of tinued to hire service workers, the payroll of seven at offices in Independent Business, an advocacy staffers who perform the work for Farmington, Conn., and Boca Raton, group representing small company customers, but "we wanted to make Fla. owners. sure that industry was back on its 
"A number of our business areas "It looks like everything is pro­feet before we made an investment have started to expand to the point ceeding nicely and smoothly," in support personnel" such as office where we need to add on additional Dunkelberg said after the Labor workers. staff," said Herz, who attributed the Department reported that employers Steritech, which has about 550 improvement to clients who have created 157,000 new jobs during employees nationwide, expects more money and who are more December. That number was fewer steady growth in hiring this year, focused on making decisions about than Wall Street wanted, but Moser said. their finances and estates. Dunkelberg said an even and sus­At Harbor Sweets, a Salem, Mass.­
The growing economy has helped tainable pace rather than a torrid based candy maker, "we probably some small business owners decide one is healthier for the economy. have not grown at the rate we might that it's time to start hiring again or, Improving business for customers have if we had felt more confident in in the case of new companies, hiring of Steritech Group Inc. has allowed the economy," owner Phyllis LeBlanc for the first time. They've held off the Charlotte, N.C.-based pest pre-said. 
page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, January 14, 2005 
Bush proposes Pell Grant aw-ard raise 
12 percent increase will aid college students 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -President 
Bush is proposing to raise the 
maximum Pell Grant award by 
$500 over the next five years 
and fix a persistent shortfall 
in the nation's chief college 
aid program, The Assoeiated 
Pross has learned. 
That would put the maxi­mum grant at $4,550 by 2010 -up 12 percent from the $4,050 offered today. 
The White llouse declined to 
disclose whether the president 
wants to increase the grants 
rneoivod by morn than 5 mil­
lion low-income students, but 
congressional and education 
officials familiar with the 
details of his proposal said 
Thursday that Bush will call 
for raising the Pell Grant 
award $100 a year for five 
years. 
!'ell Grants, the govern­ment's largest form of finan­eial aid, help low-income stu­dents afford college. The grants range from $400 to $4.050, depending on stu­dents' financial need, their cost to attend school and wiH1ther thoy are enrolled part-time or full-time. 
News of an increase comes as Bush prepares to send a new budget to Congress next month that tlw administration promises will ineludn cuts in domestic programs. Prnsidents fn~qunntly nmpha­size spending ineroases for politically popular programs to take the sting out of painful trimming tlwy've donn in tlw federal budget. 
Whiln welcomed by both I>onwerats and Hopublieans, tho Poll {irant increase Bush is ex1HH~i<1d to propose Friday during his visit to Florida Community Collf1gn at Jacksonville is shy of his plndgn whnn he first ran for president. 
On tho campaign trail in 2000. Bush vowed to raise the maximum award to $5,100. Despite soaring eollegn costs, it's bonn stud at $4.050 for th ron years. 
"Four years al'tnr making­and breaking -a campaign promise to raise the valun of tho Pnll Grant, I hope Prnsidont Bush is linally will­ing to make good on that promiso," Hop. George Miller, 1>-Calif.. ranking Democrat on the llouse Education Committee, said in a state­nwnt issued Thursday. 
"I also hope lw is ready to olTnr a serious solution to the shortfall in funding for Poll Grants.... My concern is that the president will rob Peter to pay Paul -increase money for Poll Grants by cutting funding for other important education programs. That is not a workabln solution." 
Terry llartle, senior vice president of the American Council on Education, which represents colleges, said his group would be happy with any increase in the Poll Grant award. espeeially if it is cou­pled with eliminating a grow­ing deficit in the program. 
"If true, these proposals would mark the most signifi­cant development in the Pell (irant program since it was created 30 years ago," Hartle said. "The higher education 
community would vigorously 
applaud this action." 
When the economy is slow, more students enroll in col­leges and the Pell Grant pro­gram typically runs a deficit, Hartle explained. Students eli­gible to receive the grants are sent the money even if it exceeds congressional alloca­tions, he said. Because the economy has not been robust in recent years and more peo­ple have gone off to college, the deficit has grown to roughly $4 billion, he said. 
"It's a shortfall on paper, but when Congress looks to increase the Pel! Grant they do so with the knowledge that the program is roughly $4 bil­lion in the hole," he said. "EI iminating the shortfall would make it much easier for Congress to increase the max­imum grant." 
The White House on Thursday hinted that Bush was planning action on the Pell Grant program deficit. 
"The president has been strongly committed to Pelt Grants and insuring that more students are eligible," deputy White House press secretary Trent Duffy said. "There is' a serious shortfall in the pro­gram and the president is committed to addressing it." 
Although Congress did not raise the maximum grant last year, lawmakers did increase Pell Grant money by $458 mil­lion, to about $12.4 billion. llowever, Congress also decid­ed not to block the Education Department from updating tax deduction tables used to cal­culate aid eligibility. 
If the Education Department updates the tables, it would cause about 1 million prospec­tive Pelt Grant recipients to have their eligibility reduced by an average of $300, according to Brian Fitzgerald, starr director or the Advisory Committee on Financial Assistance, which advises Congn1ss. The update would save the Pelt program about $300 million a year. 

Retail chain settles profiling case 
Associated Press 

ALBANY, N.Y.-Macy's has agreed to a settlement in a case in which black and Hispanic customers alleged the company targeted minorities in trying to catch suspected shoplifters, the retail chain confirmed Thursday. 
The company agreed to make sure its security offi­cers adhere to store policy and do not engage in racial profiling. A settlement with state Attorney General Eliot Spitzer is expected to be signed Friday, said Macy's spokeswoman Carol Sanger. 
Spitzer spokesman Brad Maione declined comment. 
Under a tentative agree­ment, Macy's would pay the $600,000 for the state's costs of examining complaints from black and Ilispanic cus­tomers who said they were more often detained, ques­tioned, searched and hand­cuffed than white customers, according to a law enforce­ment official familiar with Spitzer's investigation. 
Macy's has agreed to adopt several measures including appointing a worker to inves­tigate complaints and to train and supervise security personnel, the source said. It will also train security offi­cers and sales people on how to avoid any profiling, and hire an outside auditor to perform unannounced reviews, according to the source. 
The case involved the com­pany's Macy's East branch, which has stores across the Northeast. 


-Accepting Reservations for Post-Game Dining 
-Light menu featuring gourmet soups, salads, & sandwiches 
-Featuring gourmet pizzas 
-Music is live on Fridays & Saturdays, starting at 9pm, Michigan time 
-Wine, microbrews, specialty drinks &martinis, along with traditional coffee house drink menu items 
-Art Gallery 
Bring in this coupon and receive a free latte! 
IRISH CROSSINGS 
Informational Presentation Date: January 14, 2005 Time: 1O:OOAM to 6:00PM 
At: The Eck Visitor's Center on the campus at the University of Notre Dame. 
The presentation will be given by Judy Wantuch of Weiss Homes, Inc. at the top of each hour. The last presentation will be given at 5:00PM. Representatives will be on hand to speak with interested parties individually. Seventy brand new luxurious, care free homes will be built just a few feet from the Fighting Irish. Models will open and homes will be available in May, 2005. Now accepting pre-construction deposits. 
For more information contact Judy Wantuch of Weiss Homes at 574-234-7373 extension 278 or e-mail jwantuch@weisshomes.com. Students, staff, faculty and alumni invited. 
Friday, January 14, 2005 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
National Intelligence Council releases year 2020 report 
Associated Press  are not meant to be predictions  tional popularity and India's  expects the innovation in terror  predicts democratic progress in  
certain to come true but rather  Bollywood movie industry out­ attacks to come from new ele­ key Middle Eastern countries,  
LANGLEY, Va. -And now, a  long-term outlooks designed to  shines Hollywood.  ments of surprise, rather than  including Iraq and Afghanistan,  
look into the future: al-Qaida, out;  stimulate debate at the start of a  "Of course, the United States is  unconventional weapons.  which may be an example for  
murky and scattered new terror  new administration, in the works  in good shape to participate in this  The groups' members will be  Muslim and Arab states still ruled  
cells, in. Hollywood, out; India's  months before President Bush  world, but it will be  tapping technology  by repressive regin1es.  
"Bollywood" in. America as sole superpower, out; China and India as world players, in.  won. The council predicts an emer­gence of new global players - a world that will be much more compet­itive for us," Gordon  "How we mentally map the world of  that provides instant connections for communications  However, Russian and Central Asian countries could slip back­ward, according to the report.  
At least, that's what U.S. intelli­gence future-gazers predicted Thursday.  almost certainly China and India -but whether these new players fit into the world cooperatively or  said. Hutchings said this new order will  2020 will change radically.,,  and training, posing a significant intelli­gence challenge to  The National Intelligence Council reports directly to CIA Director Porter Goss but remains  
"How we mentally map the  competitively remains an impor­ raise the stakes for  organizations  separate from the agency. It is  
world of' 2020 will change radical­ly," said the National Intelligence Council Chairman Robert Hutchings at the release of his  tant uncertainty for the United States. Council Vice Chairman David Gordon said the changes ahead  Arab countries, which may join in globalization trends or experience fur­ Robert Hutchings National Intelligence Council chairman  including the CIA. "Our greatest concern is that ter­rorists might  responsible for preparing National Intelligence Estimates for policy­makers. Although its products are generally highly classified, signifi­ 
panel's new report, Project 2020.  could be "a very bumpy ride."  ther alienation and  acquire biological  cant details have emerged on its  
Newly arriving powers "have the  Among them, he said, the integra­ humiliation. Terror threats, too,  agents or, less likely, a nuclear  overblown estimate of Iraq's  
potential to render obsolete the old  tion of 1 billion low-paid workers  will change.  device, either of which could cause  weapons capability.  
categories of East and West, North  will cause global shifts in rich and  While radical extremism will  mass causalities," the report said.  A team of analysts, consulting  
and South."  poor countries alike. Changes will  continue to grow, the report says  The council treads carefully on  with over 1,000 international  
The unelassilied forecasts offer a  be experienced politically, econom­ al-Qaida is expected to be super­ the success of democratization ­ experts over the last year, assem­ 
range of scenarios about the world  ically and even culturally, as  seded by similarly inspired, decen­ an issue Bush has made the cor­ bled Project 2020, which follows  
15 years out. Officials caution they  Korean pop singers gain interna­ tralized groups. Hutchings said he  nerstone of his foreign policy. It  projects 2010 and 2015.  

WHERE WILL YOU BE FRIDAY NIGHT? 

Get the highest score in Pacman or Breakout 
and TAKE THE TV HOME WITH YOU;' 
PUn Pun 
Sink a long putt & win a golf bagl 

BilliARDS CHAllENGE 
See how many shots it takes to run the table. Top shooter wins a digital camera.' 
TUM SPEED TRIVIA 
Grab a friend and see how many questions you can get right in a short amount of titne. Winning team 111111 EACH get a special prize! 
AU Ill SMC. HGC Slf/IENTS1/IYITE/J 111ArrEII6.. DUIIIJ61111111111. 6/ILESFl16AUAC"'ITIESWIU 81ANAIU81E11116Rl 

JEOPARDY! TDIRN.IM:ENT 
Just like K·en...Piay until you lose. Top S winner gets DVD player! 
10 QUESTIONS 
Ttli'nk you know it ail? Perfect score on this trivia game make.s you eligible to win an ND pocket protector AND an MP3 play·er! 
THE 0BSER.VER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, January 14, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
1~0. Box 779 Noore Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Nurre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Man Lozar 
MANAGING EI>I'fOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Mq;hannc Downt·s  Mike flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Hea1her Van Hoegardcn SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHIC~ EDITOR! Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin An OF.SIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRAIOR: Mary Allen CONTROLLER: Micha~l Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
fAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsncws.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports. I @nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.cdu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLIN£ 
www. ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independem, daily newspaper published in print and online by the student' of the University of Notre Dame du l<tc and Saint Mary's College. Fdiwrial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administrarion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse ;ldvertisenwms based on cont-.·nt. 
Tlw news is reponed '~' accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of rhe F.diror in Chic!: Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Conunt•ntaries, lcttt·rs and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Obserwr. 
Vit-wpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lt•tters is encouraged. l.<:ners to the Editor must be signed and must include . contact infimnatiun. 
Qumions T?gflrding nbservapo!icits should be direcft'd to F.ditor in ChiefMatt lo:mr. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th~ OIMI<'rv~r (liSPS 'S99 l-101)()) Upubli~hcd Mvnday 1htout\h Friday e:a:t:pt durinK eum md VJt<uion periods. A u.~l».:uption w 'I11e Oh~;trvcr i~ $11)0 for nm; acJdcmk ycJr: $'5~ lc1r wtc ~mcsrer. 
The.' <lh.luwr i~ puhl1llhcd ilL POSTMASTER 014 "M.1uth Dillin!( ll.dl Send .1.ddrcs.s corrections ro: N•Hil' ll.uuc. IN 4(..t,')()..ti77'J Hat Ob~crvcr f'criodk;~l p1m.tM,I!' paid itt Nom Dame r.o. am~.n9 <tml ~cidi1ioncl m.uling oUke:\. 024 Sourh Dining lhll 
Nom.-DJillt', IN tifiS56-0779 
I ht' Ol~t~Crvt'r i• ~ I11Clllhcf ut rhc A!wci.m:li Pr~\, Alll't"prmiuc.:rinn nfVu~ arc 
rc~crvc,J. 

Celebration at. Saint Mary's 
Saint Mary's certainly has reason to celebrate. After six months Mooney was herself a student and taking a closer look at where of having College President Carol Mooney at the helm, she will be the College is now. oflidally inaugurated Saturday during a public ceremony. This is a golden opportunity ((Jr Saint Mary's students -one 
But Saturday's spectacle doesn't tell the whole story. The that comes around so rarely it needs to bo taken advantage of College's accompanying week of inaugural events has been well­now. The events this week are as much about each individual on attended by students, faculty and staff-show­campus as they arn about Mooney and the College. ing that the occasion is not just in honor of an OJhe Because events on the scale of an inau~-,ruration ocr.ur individual but also truly a community event. userver so infrequently, it is important li>r students to take 
In an unprecedented move, the College even part in every opportunity they can. elected to excuse students from classes today to Attending today's symposium, Saturday's events
Editorial
allow them to attend an ali-day symposium and even the dance Sunday, whieh Mooney helped to focusing on women's colleges, spreading the plan, will strengthen not only the student body's con­spotlight beyond campus and putting the inauguration into a nection with Mooney, but its sense of its plaen in history. national context. A presidential inauguration is the perfect time to eommnmorate 
The College was right to do so. While this is a time to celebrate the tradition of Saint Mary's-a tradition built on history, reputa­Mooney, her accomplishments thus far and the path that lies tion and the strength and uniqueness of all those who know what ahead, this is also a time to celebrate being a thriving women's it is to be a Saint Mary's woman. In planning and executing a full institution. Many of the week's events have focused on the rich week of events for the whole community, the College gave its rich and unique history of Saint Mary's il'lelf, looking at a time when past and its future leader the n~cognition they deserve. 
Presenting last year's 'Bonehead' awards 
January brings with it an end to the previous year and a fresh start on the calendar. As the winter solstice fades into the fog of the holiday season. nearly everyone resolves to achieve that which has alluded him in the Gary Caruso past. This year, many members of the Notre Dame Capitol Comments Board of Trustees simply need to ask themselves, "What have I done?" 
Seldom in Notre Dame's history do the impulses of a few power-drunk Donald Trump "Wonna Bees" ride roughshod over the institution with such bone-chilling effects. The "retire­ment" of University President Monk Malloy behind dosed doors could be publicly explained as the passing of a torch after his substantial service. The premature public firing of the first­ever ethnic minority head coach of any Notre Dame athletic team wins for the trustees the 2004 Bonehead of the Year Award. 
Last year, Notre Dame was not alone. The administrations, boards of trustees and athletic departments of other major universities ran closely behind Notre Dame for the title of "Bonehead." These institutions need to reexamine how their actions sent hor­rible messages to their alumni and the American public in 2004. Unfortun­ately, both of my alma matters ranked Jirst and second last year -the University of Notre Dame and the University of Pittsburgh. 
Be it resolved for the coming year that the majority of followers on the Notre Dame Board of Trustees note and never more repeat their leaders' pressuring of the athletic department on such an ill-advised public relations disaster as the firing of the head foot­ball coach before his contract expires, especially if that coach is a "first ever" at the University. In 2004, Notre Dame announced to the world that academ­ics no longer rank over athletics and the business considerations with its large sums of bowl money. 
Notre Dame also showed the world that it never was serious with coach Tyrone Willingham. He was always their second choice as a result of the athletic department's fiasco with the on-again, off-again hiring of a head football coach whose incorrectly listed details on his resume eventually led the university back to Willingham. As a result, Notre Dame proved that it is not tolerant enough to allow its "first ever ethnic minority head coach of any uni­versity sport" to prove himself within the allotted time of a five-year con­tract. Had it honored all five years of the contract, the University could eval­uate the coach on a season of play operating entirely with his recruits in his own system. 

Ironically, a decade before when Notre Dame tried to rhyme its reputation into a graduate research uni­versity with a new slo­gan, it did fulfill its half of the five-year con­tracts of two prior failed head football coaches-one, an assistant with no col­lege head coaching experience and the other, a high school coach also with no college head coaching experience. The incoming head football coach may resolve for 2005 to change the term "contract" to "covenant" on his agree­ment with the university so that the Holy Cross order recognizes its fine print. 
To the fans and administra­tion of the Bonehead Award run­ner-up, the University of Pittsburgh where I earned a masters degree, be it resolved that you soul search your conflicted minds in the coming year. Never has any university gone from such lax academic standards as when it won a football national champi­onship in the mid-1970s to such strict academic standards in recent times. As a result, the athletic standings of its teams suffered for decades. 
Now that Pitt has balanced high aca­demic standards for its athletes with winning teams, why not give the next head football coach what you refused to allow the departing coach -the entire season before complaining. The efforts to remove Walt Harris in mid­season was a disgrace, especially in light of his dramatic wins and selection in a major bowl. Be it also resolved that you stop acting like a wife abuser and enjoy your successful football and basketball teams, not to mention your professional Pittsburgh Steelers. 
For the future, Notre Dame trustees also need a reality check to avoid repeating new -pitfalls in 2005 and beyond. As it stands, Notre Dame will never win a national football championship without going undefeat­
ed, so the athletic director needs to examine future sched­
ules with an eye on pacing the team through its premier match-ups each sea­son. With a playoff system, Notre Dame's odds of eompeting in a national champi­
onship game dramati­cally increase, so the new University presi­

dent needs to push for the "plus one" bowl for­mat. Of course, if aca­demics still rank above athletic wins and revenues, simply honor athletic con­tracts while scholars research their projects. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's admin­istration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at hottline@aol. com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Eileen Duffy Dan Tapetillo Nicole Zook Eric Retter 
Mary Kate Ryan Kiefer What are you planning to do 

"The Constitution only gives people the right to
to aid the tsunami victims?
Malone Scene 

pursue happiness. You have to
Viewpoint Maria Smith 

catch it by yourself"
a. Donate money 54%
Alyssa Illustrator 
b. Volunteer 1% 
Brauweilcr Graham Ebetsch 
c. Raise money 1% 

Ben Franklin
Graphics d. Nothing 43% 

inventor
Graham Ebetsch 
*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 69 responses. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Friday, January 14, 2005 page 11 
U-WIRE 
Intern your way to success 
Listen up, people, especially you freshmen, and most especially you little over­achieving fresh meat straight out of high school. I want to share a little chunk of wis­dom my brain decided to drop on me belatedly. College is a game. Well. it's part of the game. It can be a luxuriously-furnished and pocketbook-breaking day-care center for the undecided, or it can be the launching pad for your success. It just depends on how you play it. 
I highly suggest the launching pad option, but it's not that sim­
Oliver Lukacs 

ple. The launching pad image is, of course, the one we're all familiar with. It's part of that formula for success every parent 
University of

and politician swears by as though it's the Bible of capitalism. 
California-Los

Go to college, ace the classes, graduate cum laude, get a lucra­
Angeles

tive job, get the house with the white picket fence with the 
Daily Bruin 

freshly baked Norman Hockwell American dream pie cooling off on the windowsill for those picture-perfect 2.5 kids. College is that mythical magic factory of success. But as most of us know, and many will soon figure out, that's not how it works. 
A bachelor's degree is about as rare nowadays as a millionaire (or the game shows manufacturing them). Not that I completely agree with the assessment, but I once saw the message "UCLA diploma" scribed on the inside of a toilet stall with an arrow undorneath pointing to the roll of toilet paper. 
Obviously this was a message for the undergrads, pardon the pun, but I never quite saw toilet paper the same way after that. There is truth, though, to the idea that in the current job market. an undergrad diploma carries little more worth than mulch. 
But it doesn't have to. That's the part I just figured out, in my classically belated way, on the eve of graduation. 
Of' course, I realize that the overwhelming majority of you reading this will not be struck with soup-puking psycho-panic convulsions and rectal hemorrhages by what will follow. According to a survey by Vaultreport.com, 80 percent of all graduating seniors will have completed at least one internship by the time they've shuttled their mortar boards (that square thing on top of your head at graduation, dude) skyward. 
So I'm writing this for the 20 percenters, who need a catcher in the rye. 
Here's how the game works. In its crudest form, college is a filtration system. The smart ones understand this and will hate me (sorry, guys) forrevealing the dirty little secret that the most important part of college, even more than getting a diploma, is getting a really good internship. 
No one tells you this directly to your face, and that's how the filtration system works. Once everyone gets wise to this -and I'm really taking one for the team here -the competition for internships will stiffen. I justwish somebody had stressed this to me before the eve of graduation. 
For you hard-nosed materialists demanding proof, according to a survey by the National Association of Colleges and Employees, on a list of the top 10 places employ­ers find new hires, guess where internship programs rank? No. 1. 
But don't listen to me; hear it from an accredited school of hard-knocks swami. "A good internship can be almost as important as a diploma," said Dario Bravo, a UClA Career Center "God of Information" and probably one of the most important people you'II ever meet. 
It is a lamentable but undeniable truth that it is who you know, and not what you know, that determines your chances of success in that jungle outside of UClA. This is an uncomfortable truth, and one that is certainly repugnant to the high-minded prin­ciples of academia. 
I want to be clear that I'm neither knocking nor mocking this prestigious and world­class institution. Getting in is no picnic, as we all know. Getting in, however, is just the beginning of the game. 
Just remember that outside the gates of this noble institution is a harsh world that plays by its own rules, and like it or not, the name of the game is survival. 
This column originally appeared in the Daily Bruin, the daily newspaper ofthe University ofCalifornia-Los Angeles, on Jan. 12. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
U-WIRE 
Can bloggers redeem journalism's reputation? 
The drama at CBS is the latest punch to deepen the dented credibility of the media. 
The broadcast news giant just couldn't achieve the accuracy -something journalists should kind of have a knack for-that one blogger nailed with 
a post about forged National Courtney Guard documents. Balestier Now that CBS and Jayson Blair have made "media" syn­
West Virginia 

onymous with "liar," it seems a 
University

profession that's nothing with­
The Daily 

out its readers' trust is losing its 
Athenaeum

foundation. But the press' salvation is the very eye that's catching its mistakes:bloggers. · 
The media can hate these Internet quasi­reporters for exposing their shortcomings. They can embrace them for restoring the transparency that's been clouded by profit-and competition-minded executives, producers and reporters. 
Better yet, they can hire them. 
Bloggers aren't going away, and there's no reason that they should. They're scooping stories almost daily and gaining access to the same sources, all without press passes. At the Democratic and GOP national conventions, there were pseudo-news­rooms full of people whose only credentials were inquisitive minds and laptops; that's reporting in its purest form. 
On his blog, pressthink.org, New York University Department of Journalism Chair and media critic Jay Rosen articulated this trend with a clarity that editors and producers should have realized long ago. 
"We need to keep the press from being absorbed into The Media. This means keeping the word press, which is antiquated," he wrote. "But included under its m modern umbrella should be all who do the serious work in journalism, regardless of the tech­nology used. The people who will invent the next press in America -and who are doing it now online -continue an experiment at least 250 years old." 
The thousands of bloggers like Joshua Micah Marshall of talkingpointsmemo.com are the ones excelling in journalism, and they're not technically journalists. But if they were sitting at the cubicles of The New York Times, they would be the rookie reporters putting the senior staffers to shame. 
Their motivation is simple -they want to know what's going on -and that will always spawn bet­ter journalism than Mary Mapes' desire to stick it to the president. 
The media industry, not the press, creates its own headaches. It's a machine that for decades has grown in experience, but also in corporatism. Accuracy used to be the goal of all journalists, and that's why readers trusted them. Now, credible journalism is as oxymoronic as military intelligence. 
The problem that bloggers don't have is that they're not distorted by increasing profit or kow­towing to advertisers or breaking the biggest story. They don't need 12 competing flashy graphics on the screen to gain points in the ratings; they're writing what they think, and so be it if people read it. 
The ombudsmen and public relations people can try to assuage the skeptics, but CBS has proven that the skeptics are onto something. The silver lining for the media is that their skeptics can do what their journalists have obviously lost the touch for. 
Four people and a legendary news anchor are leaving CBS. Maybe Andrew Heyward should go blog-surfing and see if anyone wants a job. 
This column originally appeared in The Daily Athenaeum, the daily newspaper of West Virginia University, on Jan. 13. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE

page 12 Friday, January 14, 2005 
Pikmin, Samus Aran, the Pri 
Sequels receive good reviews; music on Ninj 
REVIEWS BY J 
Pikmin 2 

llow dons a company follow up an undnrground. systPm n~lease, smash 
hit'! 
By releasing a snqunl that surpasses thn original, of coursn. "Pikrnin 2" is one of thosn few gamns that takes a eompletely original idea and then builds on it to makn it nvnn hnt­tnr. 
Thn story of the 
Pikmin 2 

gamn direetly fol­lows the events of 
Nintendo 

"l'ikrnin" and its hero, Captain Available for Olimar. But this GameCube timn around he has help from his sidn­
Josh's Rating: B+

kkk Louin. Olirnar and Louin must c~ollnet "trnasurn" to hnlp pay ofT the debt of thn eorporation thny work for with the hnlp of sprite-like animals known only as Pikmin. Basieally, Louie and Olirnar lead them around like a gnrwral leads an army. 
Unlikn in the original "Pikmin," in "l'ikmin 2" you havn an unlimited amount of timn to pay ofT the debt. This en~ates a morn relaxing atmosphere and allows leisure to enjoy every aspnet of the game. Tasks are more easily aecomplislwd with the addition of Louin by splitting the task foree of l'ikmin and taking on two different problnms at onee. 
The addition of two new types of Pikmin also makes the game more rounded, providing a better chance of survival in the tough world. The origi-
On the surface, this game is aptly named, hneause it is basically the same game with a different story. But once playing thn game, you will realizn it is morn than just an "echo" of the origi­nal. 
While "Metroid Prime 2: Echoes" has many of thn same 
properties that 
T h e made the first Metroid Prime 2: biggest 
"Mntroid Primo" addition of
Echoes 

a hit. it is the the game, nquivalent of a which pre-
Retro Studios,

rnrnix that is just . vents it as good as the Inc. from being originai.The just a
Available for 

basic: pn~rnisn of clone/remix,
GameCube 

t.hn single player is the addi­game is the tion of mul­
Josh's Rating: A­

sanw. The ganwr tiplayer plays an inter-death­
galadic bounty hunter name Sarnus Aran who must use the first person perspnetivn combat to explore and defeat the c~nemy. But the game is not just combat. Puzzle solving using sc~anners to opnn doors and find key codes as wcdl as using Sarnus's morph hall and grappling hook abilities to get to hard to reach areas, make this a groat adv1~nture game as well. 
You are strippnd of all abilities at the beginning or the game and must tra­verse through a hostile. world, finding all of your items and re-upgrading your armor. You can even upgrade your armor and weapons using technology native to the aliens and to the planets you are currently on. II' you don't 
nal "Pikmin" had three different types of Pikmin with different abili­ties. The new types, added with the old, cmate a balanced squad ready to face any trouble the planet ean throw at you, from carnivorous plants to rushing water, and from electrical 

fences to snake-bird hybrids. 
Visually the game is very reminiscent of the original "Pikmin" with only minimal improvements to the graphics. But the game still looks great 
and sereen transitions arn extremely smooth. The only problem with the visuals, which may not even be a problnm for some gamers, is the massive amounts of eolor on the sereen. It might eventually give you headaches, but other than that, brightens the mood and enhances the style of the game. 
The soundtrack to the game is quirky, with a definitive children's music feel to it, but this only enhances the game. It creates a background of fun that eas­ily entrances the player. The sound effects also display a childlike quality, from the mechanical voice of the spaceship to the singing voices of the happy Pikmin. 
The controls of the game handle very 

Metroid Prime 2: Echoes 
upgrade, you won't be able to beat the game. Once completely upgraded, you become an unstop­pable force capable of completing the hefty tasks the game lays upon you, whieh of course inelude killing the big bad guy and saving 
the planet. 
match and 
capture the f'lag. The game's multiplayer allows you and up to three of your friends to fight for dominance over the level. There is nothing like 
fighting with your friends to be the first to get the rocket launcher and take control of a heated game. 
Visually, the game is exactly the same as the original "Metroid Prime," but this isn't a bad thing. The graphics are still topnotch and show few signs of aging at all. The GameCube has the potential to make the game oven more breathtaking, but the same engine was used in this game as the first. 
One thing lacking in the cinematics is the lack of voiceovers for the movie well, using the e-stick for easy com­mand of the Pikmin, while basically simplifying the game into easy to use one-button moves. Not overdoing the controls makes this game great for everyone from the most advanced garners to people who have never played before. 


Another huge addition to the game is the multiplayer option. Playing solo or with a teammate is great, but going head-to-head in a Pikmin battle royal is 
even more intense. The GameCube doesn't skip a beat. even with so much aetion on the scn~en at once. 
"Pikmin 2" is a great game with very few naws. rts major downfalls are the faet that it is slightly repetitive, over­stimulating to the point of headaches, and childish (although a lot of people love that). This is a great buy for peo­ple who love fun games that you can get a lot of play time out of with mini­mal effort. 

clips. There isn't a single human voice in the entire game, which makes the game seem distanced and less engag­ing. 
The audio track is very well done, establishing just the right amount of suspense and scariness to make seem almost movie like. The ambient noise and special effects noise though is where the game's sound shines through. 
Photo courtesy of ign.com 

Overall, "Metroid Prime 2: Echoes" is a great game that is just as playable and fun as the original, but it has flaws. The lack of a good storyline and the jumbled plot take away from the action of the gamn, and the addition of multiplayer death-match instead of a co-operative play isn't enough to keep this game from essentially being a clone of a former great game. While. it is a great sequel, that is all it is. 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, January 14, 2005 
page 13 
ce and Donkey Kong return 
-· 

ndo srhythmic innovation hits a bad note 
Prince of Persia: Warrior Within 


The follow-up to last year's Game of the Year absolutely buries its predecessor in all aspects. 
While "Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time" was an amazing platl'ormer with interesting puzzles and good combat, "Prince of Persia: Warrior Within" is foremost a fighting platformer with enough puzzles to make lovers of the first game stare in awe. After the events of the first game, the Prince is being hunt­ed by Fate itself. To stop it, he must prevent the Sands of Time from being created by using them to travel back to the beginning of the timeline and destroy them before they were created. 
Confused yet? Don't worry the game explains everything in more depth. 
The biggest change from the first game to this game is the darker atmosphere. The entire mood of this installment is different than the original. The game has been revamped to make all the environ­ments and enemies scarier, more deadly and spooki­er, and even included boss fights, which are a new feature to the game. 
The game also gives a complete makeover to the Prince himself. The Prince has traded in his imperial blue robes and white pants for metal body armor and a red sash. The Prince has also added quite a few tricks to his repertoire. Most notably, he has figured out how to dual wield weapons, effectively doubling the damage in the game. He has also learned all sorts 
of new tricks to interact with the environment including sliding down cur­tains, movie style, and using pillars to propel him­self at enemies. 
To increase the level of combat in the game, the 
Prince now 
ration and puzzles
Prince of Persia: 
can also per­while also delivering a
Warrior Within 
form over two power driven rock pages of com­score, preformed by bat combos to UbiSoft Godsmack, during the ravage his combat sections of the
Available for X-Box, 
enemies with. game.
GameCube and
The player The game has anoth­
Playstation 2 
can also er feature that may string togeth­Josh's Rating: A+ make the game more 
er their own combinations or attacks to make customizable combos and fight in a 360-degree environment. But one of the key factors of the first game is still around in the second, making the game all that much better. The Prince can still control time, using it to outrun enemies and traps by slowing time down or rewinding time after a misstep on a ledge or another mistake. Developing both control over the combos and the Sands of Time is critical to the game because without wither of these, you will not survive long enough to even think about beating the game. 
Finally, the traps in the game are vicious enough to stop you were the enemies fail. Elaborate puzzles are used to escape them and get around large sections of traps. These puzzles involve climbing ropes, pillars, running on walls, back flipping off a wall during a free fall, and many others. 
The visuals in the game are stunning and can be seen in three different view modes, including first person, third person, and landscape. The cinematics are gorgeous and help further the story in a totally engrossing way. This game pushes the GameCube to the edge of its capabilities and shows what exactly the system is capable of doing. 
The soundtrack is also a huge part of this game, 
giving a great classical 
score during explo­
difficult, but is a great addition to the game. The game learns from 

your movements and adapts to your style and plays accordingly. This makes the game extremely chal­lenging but well worth all of effort. "Prince of Persia: Warrior Within" is an amazing game and a must buy for any fan of the action/adventure or platforming genre. 
Ever played "Dance Dance Hevolution?" Like to beat your own drum? Thnn try your hands at "Donkey Konga," an interactive music drum­ming game. 
Okay, that sounded really bad. But just give it a chance. The game is prob­ably not half as bad as you think it is. 
Donkey Konga 
It's actually a lot of fun when played with other people. 
The premise of the game is that a song is played through the television with symbols that signify when to hit the drum. The game comes with a set of double bongos that allow you to strike the left bongo, right bongo, both bongos or clap. Then you just choose a difficulty level and play along with the song. 

Pretty simple, right? Wrong. There are three difficulty levels ranging from Monkey (easy) to Chimp (standard) to Gorilla (hard). The game contains songs from a wide spectrum of genres 
and some decent "classics." With 
music from ska to pop to oldies and 
video game tunes, there has to be 
something you 
would enjoy on 

the game. 
you and your But the music friends can com­
Donkey Konga 
is one of the pete against the big problems system. with the game. There is noth­
Namco 
There just isn't ing about the enough of it, a visuals that is large enough Available for great. Basically, selection of GameCube it is just the good songs, or rhythm pattern
Josh's Rating: 8­
varied enough with colors and music for con-Donkey Kong 
tinual use. You can get really tired of some of the songs after playing them just once or twice. 
There is also a setting where you memorize the beats of a song and play them from memory. This seems like a useless section, because a lot of people won't care enough to memorize the music to attempt it. This could definitely have been replaced with more music for the regular version of the game. 
The real treat in the game though is the multiplayer. You can challenge your friends (if they have another bongo set of course) to a one-on-one head to head challenge to see who the better drummer is. Even better is playing duets with a friend. In duets, you play the same song, but different beats. This makes for a frenzied, complex game sure to be full of laughs. And if you want to play a quartet, the GameCube will play as the other players, so 
banging on a 

drum. The sound is pretty good because the songs are pretty true to the original versions of the songs. 
Overall, the game could use a lot of work, mostly involving more and better music. Hopefully, more discs are released that are just extension discs containing more music. 
Contact Josh Talley at jtalley2@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, January 14, 2005 
NBA 

Lakers beat Cavaliers despite losing Kobe in first quarter 
Associated Press Melnnis and James made 3­
I.OS AN<;I·:LJ<:S -Kobn pointers to move the Cavalinrs 
Bryant WIHl t down hard and within one point with 9.8 sne­
did not rnturn, though thn Los onds to go. Buller made a foul 
Angnlns l.aker·s worn able to shot before Jamns missed a 3­
ddnat LeBron .James and llw pointer that eould have given 
Cleveland Cavaliers without Cleveland the lead. Odom 's 
hi Ill. two free throws with 1.8 see­
Bryant sustairwd what the onds to play eompletnd the tnam eallnd a snvernly seoring. sprainnd right ankln and had Hobert Traylor scored his 
to bn lwlped orr the court first four points of the game early in a victory Thursday during a 10-3 run that gave night. X-rays wl'rn nngative, the Cavaliers a 67-61 lead. but Bryant will have an MHI Atkins then got his first seven on Friday. during a I 0-4 Los Angeles 
Lamar Odom had 24 points, spurt to finish the third quar­night rnbounds and seven tnr that tied the game 71-all. assists, and Caron Butler After a basket by James added 21 points and 11 gave Cleveland a 32-24 lead rd)()unds for tlw !.akers, who -largest of the game for won for the third limn in four either team -the Lakcrs ganws. went on a 16-5 run to put 
.James lnd Cl1wnland with 28 them ahead 40-37, and thny points. a SPason-high 1:~ led 49-47 at halftime. rebounds and ninn assists to Kings 107, Jazz 93 j u s t m i s s h i s l'i r s t c a nw r l'nja Stojakovic scored 27 tripln-doublP . .lnff' Mcinnis points and Chris Webber had addnd 20 points and Zydrunas 23 points and 15 rebounds in llgauskas had 1:{ points and thn Sacramnnto Kings' vieiory 15 rnbounds for tlw Cavalinrs, over thn Utah .Jazz. who had tlwir four-game win­Brad Miller had 21 points on ning strnak snappnd. 9-of-10 shooting for the 
Bryant, tho NBA's seeond-Kings, who had just nine play­1nad i n g sco n~ r w i t h a 2 8 . 2 -nrs in uniform for the second point avnragn, was injurnd straight gamfl when Mike 

whnn he landnd on Ira Bibby sat out with a sprained Nnwbln's right foot while ankle. The Kings then lost by 10 points from Webber. of his 12 points in the extra Houston holding an 81-79 going for a rebound under the Greg Ostertag and Maurice Sacramento maintained the period, and a hobbled Tracy lead. Yao missed two free Cavalinrs' basket with 5:39 Evans to injuries during the lead through the second half, McGrady added 18 points for throws, Carter rebounded and lnft in the first quarter. game, but hung on through a with Utah never getting closer the Rockets, who matched a quickly brought the ball down Nnwble was eallnd for a foul physical game featuring plen­than six points. season-best three-game win­the floor. He found Nenad on the play. ty of hard contact and con­Bibby sat on the sidelines ning streak and moved two Krstic cutting underneath the 
Bryant imr111~diatnly grabbed frontations. next to new acquisitions games above .500 {19-17) for basket for a two-handed slam, his ankle before teammate Matt Harpring landed a Cuttino Mobley and Michael the first time this season. tying the game at 81-all with Brian Grant and trainer Gary hard foul on Stojakovic in the Bradley. The Sacramento Jason Kidd narrowly missed 24.7 seconds left. Vitti helped him ofT the court third quarter, and Stojakovic newcomers were unable to a triple-double with 16 points, Houston's David Wesley and into the Staples Center responded with a one"handed play while awaiting Doug 10 rebounds and nine assists, missed a jumper as the shot tunnel, where Grant and shove. Both players got tech­Christie's physical with and Vince Carter had 17 dock expired, and the Hockets injurnd Los Angeles forward nical fouls, but their team­Orlando, which will complete points for the Nets, who stole New Jersey's inbounds Dnvean George carried him mates prevented a serious the clubs' trade. dropped their third straight pass with 0. 7 seconds to go to into thn locker room. scufllfl. Webber, who missed and fifth in the past six send the game into overtimfl. 
Bryant had two points and With 2:09 to play, Utah's Tuesday's win over Denver to games. From there, Howard and three assists bnfore leaving Carlos Boozer committed a rest his sore knee, returned Playing on a balky right Sura took over. with the game tied at 15. flagrant foul against Evans, with a strong game on both knee that had been drained of The unheralded duo scored 
Bryant injured his right who fell hard to the ground ends, including a two-handed, fluid Tuesday, Sura nonethe­all of the Hockets' 13 points in shoulder late in the first quar­while attempting a dunk. behind-the-head dunk in the less seized control of the the extra period, and evpn ter of a game against the Evans remained on the court second quarter. Rockets' offense with came up with smaller clutch Cavaliers last January at for a moment before walking Miller also grabbed nine McGrady struggling through a plays to keep Houston ahead. Staples Center when he collid­to the locker room, and rebounds, and he capped his rare off night and Yao Ming Sura snuck into the lane to ed with former Clflveland Webber got a technical foul outstanding shooting with a 3-rendered ineffective. grab an offensive rebound guard Kedrick Brown, causing for attempting to challenge pointer with 15.3 seconds left. Sura helped Houston rally and fed the ball to lloward for him to miss six games. Boozer. Harpring scored 16 points from an early first-quarter the go-ahead basket, and 
.James visited the !.akers' Ostertag left the court in the for the Jazz, and Raja Bell deficit, played solid defense lloward then returned the locker room at halftime to second quarter with a towel had 11. on Kidd and hit nearly every favor by finding Sura for the dw1:k on Bryant. over his face after getting hit The Jazz will be without clutch basket down the 3-pointer that gave Houston a 
Erie Snow's 3-pointer -his by an elbow from Utah's Andrei Kirilenko for at least stretch. 90-85 lead with 1:06 left. only points of the game -Curtis Borchardt. He received another week, with coach With Houston trailing 77-76 McGrady, who came into the gavn the Cavaliers an 87-86 stitches in his upper lip and Jerry Sloan deciding to give following Carter's reverse game with an injured left lead with 2:41 to play. But a returned to the bench for the the All-Star forward another layup, Sura found himself thumb and bruised left big basket by Odom and two free second half, but didn't play. week of rehabilitation on his standing unguarded outside toe, exited briefly in the throws by Chucky Atkins put BoozP.r had 15 points, nine sprained knee. the arc. He nailed a 3, send­fourth quarter with a strained tho Lakers on top 90-87 with rebounds and seven assists Rockets 94, Nets 85 ing the crowd into a frenzy left quadriceps but returned 
1:38 len. for the Jazz, who followed up Bob Sura scored a career­and letting his right arm quiekly. 
llgauskas made a free throw surprising victories over high 35 points, including a linger in the air a little longer Yao was held to a season­to draw the Cavalinrs within Phoenix and San Antonio ear­game-clinching 3-pointer with than usual-a sort of person­low six points. lle got into two points, but Atkins and lier this week with their 1Oth 1 :02 left in overtime, to lead al salute to his gutty perform­early foul trouble, took only Butler made two foul shots loss in 12 games. the surging Houston Hockets ance. two shots and went scoreless each to put the !.akers ahead Utah had an eight-point lead to victory over the New Jersey Yao, however, nearly wasted in the first half. lie finished 94-88 with 22.4 seconds in the second quarter before Nets. Sura's effort by bungling a nine rebounds, two blocks and rnmaining. the Kings made a 26-2 run led Juwan Howard scored eight chance to seal the victory with five turnovers. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

CORBY PROPERTIES 2-3-4-5  Furn.room w/arnenities in private  1 bdrm apt 1/2 mile to NO.  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5  
FoR RENT  bedroom homes near campus. Furnished, security systems, W/0,  home. Near UP Mall. Nice area. www.Daveshouse.com  $550/mo. Laundry incl.  WANTED  Days $299! Includes Meals. Celebrity Parties! Panama City,  
newer appliances, phone, cable,  Call 283·0325  Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica.  
2-6 bedroom homes for 05-06  utilities included. $400/per student.  3 bdrm north of campus, ample  Interested in a lucrative career in  Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award  
Walking distance from NO. MMMRentals.com 532·1408  Call Eric at 315-3215.  parking, partially furnished, many extras. Call 412-4 78-5192 for the  FoR SALE  Pharmaceutical Sales? www.beapharmarep.com  Winning Company! SpringBreakTravel.com  
CORBY PROPERTIES 5 bedroom  details.  1-800-678-6386  
House for rent across from NO. Avail now and for 2005·06 school  home available second semester. Call Eric at 315-3215.  New 4-bdrm,3-bath home.Avail  Pre-owned Dell computers. $100-250.  FoR SALE  Spring Break 2005 with STS,  
yr.  8/05. Cathedral ceiling, fireplace,  57 4-229-3333.  Americas #1 Student Tour  
Call 232-0875.  HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BED- deluxe kitchen, skylights, 2-car  FREELANCE ONLINE TUTORS  Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call  
ROOM HOMES.  garage, family room, 10x20 deck.  Complete  Instruct 3-12 grd stdnts;  for group discounts.  
2·6 BDRM HOMES. NOW &  GOOD CONDITION. CLOSE TO  Safe area.  working computers  Internet connex reqd; tutor/teach  Info/Reservations  
2005/6.  CAMPUS.  Call574-232·4527 or  $125  exp. prefrd  1-800-648-4849  
272-6306  Call Sean 532-1895.  269-683·5038.  574-286-3295.  jobs@ brainfuse.com  www.ststravel.com  

--------------------------------------.. 
Friday, January 14, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Young quarterbacks impress 
Brady, Manning, Vick, McNabb are rising stars in new generation ofquarterbacks 
Associated Press 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. -Michael Vick sat on his couch around this time last year, trying to pirk a playoff quarterback to root for. 
Vick had a tough choice. Tlwrn was Donovan McNabb. Pnyton Manning. Tom Brady. 
"I was pulling for Donovan," Vick recalled this week. "Tic's my homeboy, but at the same timn I was pulling for Peyton, pulling for Brady because those are all guys I'm cool with." 
Perhaps there is a reason for that. Vick, McNabb, Manning and Brady are part of the new generation of quarterbacks, rising stars in the league that have ynt to hit 30. This year, Vick is a part of the playoff bunch with his three friends, and they have helped make history. 
From MVP Manning to rookie Ben Hoethlisberger, none of the eight QBs in the Super Bowl quarterfinals is older than 28. 
It is the first time since the AFL-NFL merger that all the passers are so young, accord­ing to the Elias Sports Bureau. 

"That's a good thing," said coach Herman Edwards, who has 28-year-old Chad Pennington leading the Jets. 
"A couple years prior to this we were always talking about, 'Where are the young quarter­backs coming from?' Now, all of a sudden you have them in the playoffs, and that's good for the league." 
There are first-rounders and sixth-rounders, record-setters and jet-setters among the group. Their backgrounds are diverse, but there are a few reasons why they have come this far. Many franchises have decided to build their team around a young player while hoping he becomes a future superstar. 
The theory of having rookie quarterbacks sit on the bench for several years while learn­ing behind a wily veteran has all but disappeared. 
Of the 32 starters on opening day, 18 were 28 or younger. Because of injuries or the need for a change, that number jumped to 21 when the regu­lar-season ended. 
"It's always been accepted as fact in this league that you need a great quarterback to go very far, and I think you can see the eight teams that are left believe that," Colts general manager Bill Polian said. 

MLB 
-

O-wners approve the sale of the Bre-wers 
Associated Press 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. Major league owners unani­mously approved the $223 million sale of the Milwaukee Brewers on Thursday from the family of commissioner Bud Selig to a group headed by Los Angeles investor Mark Attanasio. 
Attanasio, 47, is committed to keeping the team in Milwaukee, thanks to a 30­year lease to play in Miller Park. 
Although approval was assured beforehand, Attanasio said it was an emotional moment when he walked into the room and was given a standing ovation by the other owners. 
"It's indescribable," Attan­asio said. 
The sale is to close Friday, when the ownership transfer will take place. ~ 
Attanasio grew up in the Bronx and has been a lifelong baseball fan. 
"It's probably a labor of love," he said of his decision to buy the Brewers. "But what's better? I love the game of baseball, and it's a new chal­lenge for me." 
Attanasio has been a group managing director of the Trust Company of the West, a money management firm, since 1995. 
Selig's daughter, Wendy Selig-Prieb, has been in charge of the franchise since her father became commis­sioner in 1998. The team has struggled to be competitive in recent years but has made several player moves in the offseason thanks to the prospect of new ownership. 
"We must field a competitive team," Attanasio said. "Frankly, I think we've taken a big step this year developing young players, who we need to continue to develop. We need to continue to put money into the farm system. And then frankly we need to figure out a way to get another $10 million into the payroll over the next couple of years." 
The club currently has a payroll of slightly more than $40 million. 
"We're going to look at dif­ferent business initiatives that will help us raise the money" Attanasio said. 
He said there already are examples of small market teams becoming winners. 
"The A's, the Twins, the Marlins," Attanasio said. "The Marlins won the World Series with a $50 million payroll. But where we want to start is to be a competitive team, then we'll go from there." 


page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, January 14, 2005 

SMC SWIMMING

-
Belles look to break early season slulllp 
By JUSTIN STETZ Sports Writer 

After a long bmak, the Saint Mary's swimming tmun is look­ing to bounce back as it travels to llillsdaln Colll~gn this week­end. The Belles curnmtly stand in last place in tlw MIM with a record or 0-2 after losses against conf"PrPnce opponents I lope and Olivet. 
Saturday. tlw team will takf~ on Alma Collngn beginning at 
1:00 p.m. 
Ilowevnr, tlw SeoL'i have suf"­f"nrml their own sot of problems this year as tlwy remain locknd with tho Bolles at the bottom of the l1~agun, still scan~hing for their first victory this season. All three of Alma's lossns have bcen against conlimmee rivals, by an average or 60 points in each meet. 
Last year in their only head­to-head eompetition, tho Sr.ots worn vidorious ovnr tlw Belles with an irnpmssive 134-97 per­formance. A f"nw bright spots for Saint Mary's during the meet carne from Kelly Nelis, Katy LebiPdz and Sarah Nowak in tlw womnn's 400-yard med­ley rnlay as the group posted an impmssive first-plan~ seom of 4 minutes, 29.11 seconds. 
In tho other 1wents, Lebiedz concluded tlw 50-yard frnnstyle linishing in third place with a 
PGA 
Wie struggles with quest to lllake cut 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU -After scram­bling to salvage a 5-over 75, Miehnllo Win plopped down in a chair and playfully stuck out her bottom lip as if she had just bfJen seoldod. 
The 15-year-old quickly found one positive noto from a tough time Thursday in the Sony Open. 
"At least I'm not in last 

place," Win said. 
Wie finished better than 10 men among early starters on a blustery day at Waialan Country Club. but she was nine shots behind eo-leaders Stewart Cink and Brett Quiglny, and facing an uphill path to her dream of making the cut. 
Still, she wasn't the only one who strugglt~d. 
Thn Kona wind. rare for these parts, gusted up to 25 mph and wreaked havoc on most everyone. Two-time defending champion Ernie Els had to birdie the last hole for a 71, while Vijay Singh stumbled home to a 69. 
"It was hard hitting every shot-tho drive, approach shot was dif'f'ieult," Singh said. "It's tough for the boys ovor here, you know'? Going to be tough for a girl here, too." 
Win opened with a 72 last year at the Sony Open, then followed that with a 6S -the lowest scorn 1wnr by a female compnting on a rmm's tour­timI' of 27 .62. Then a sopho­morP, Nowak ended with a sec­ond-place finish in the 200-yard individual nwd1ey. 
Following the Belles trip to Islamorada located in the Florida Keys, coach Gregg Petcoll' rnmarked this was one Of the bPst winter trips he had ever experienced with the team. So now fi>r Saint Mary's, thny must build upon what the have learned and come out ready against the ScoL'i. 
The team will look to eaptain Ashley Dy11r along with Lebiodz and Nowak to carry the load fi:>r the Belles. Meanwhile, other swimmers such as Nelis, Rachel Boury and Katie Dingeman should help the team improve in the 400-yard medley, while freshman Noreen Sherrod will look liu· her continw~d success in the 1 00-yard freestyle. 
After Saturday's match. Saint Mary's will await Kalamazoo College wlHrcomes to town Jan. 21 to face the Belles. 
The Hornets stand in third plaen in the MIAA standings, posting a mark of 2-1. After beating the Belles handily dur­ing last year's competition, Saturday's meet should be a good test for the Belles who look to doseout their season on a strong note. 
Contact justin Stetz at jstetz@nd.edu 
to miss the cut by one shot. 
Given the conditions, her 75 wasn't that bad. And she hit several shots she didn't have last year, such as a knockdown driver to keep the ball low into a wind that caused palm trees to sway. 
"I was very impressed, all the different shots she was playing," said Matt Davidson, a ()-school grad who unwit­tingly made his PGA Tour debut playing in front of some 3,000 people, enough to line every fairway from tec-to-green, standing six­deep behind the ninth green 
when  they  finished  the  
round.  
"I didn't feel like I  was  

playing with a 15-year-old girl," Davidson said. "She's very polished. She has all the tools to be out here." 
Brett Wetterich also played with Win and had a 70. 
Quigley and Cink each shot 66, and hardly anyone noticed. Almost everyone at Waialae came to watch the 1Oth-grader from Punahou School try to prove she can play with the boys. 
Quigley birdied both par 5s, but really made up ground with a chip-in from 60 feet for birdie on No. 1, which plays into the wind and left even the strongest players reaching for a 3-iron for their second shot. 
"That was stealing two shots there, for sure," Quigley said. 
NFL 

Colts to face muddy field 
Associated Press 
FOXBORO, Mass. -The New England Patriots are preparing what may be the best defense against Peyton Manning and his speedy receivers: a slippery field. · 
The team left the Gillette Stadium grass uncovered through Wednesday's rain and Thursday's fog. With more rain or snow expected Friday and freezing temperatures for the weekend. the Indianapolis Colts' prolific offense could find the footing funky in Sunday's playoff game. 
Patriots coach Bill Belichick knows a cold front may be as critical as his three-man defen­sive front in slowing down the Colts. But he certainly wouldn't turn the field into an iee rink or a quagmire just to help his team, would he? 
"My job is not to pull weeds," he said Wednesday with an inno­cent-looking smirk. "I have a lot of other things to do. Or rake the lield and all of that. I'm sure that will all be taken care of." 
A coach like Belichiek who delves into the smallest detail includes weather conditions in his planning, although he may not have the final say on field maintenance. 
''I'm sure he's consulted on it," team spokesman Stacey James said Thursday, "but it's a collab­orative efl'ort between our stadi­um operations people and the grounds crew." 
There's a 90 percent chance of rain or snow on Friday before a dry weekend with temperatures ranging from 20 to 34 degrees on Saturday and 16 to 33 degrees on Sunday with mostly cloudy skies. There'll be plenty of time for the moisture to turn to ice before the game's late 

offee and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 
~uesday, January 18th 
7:30-9:30 p.m. 
316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and 
Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual members of 
the Notre Dame family, their 
friends, and supporters to an 
informal coffee at the Co-Mo. 


Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *Coffee and refreshments will be served* 
afternoon start. 
There are heating coils under­neath the l'ield at Gillett1~ Stadium that could keep tho turf from freezing. Of course the coils won't stop all that moisture from making the field slick, maybe even muddy. 
Colts coach Tony Dungy said the field conditions won't bf~ a factor. But his team plays homo games indoors in 72-degree temperatures, artilieial turf and no wind. 
"We feel like it's our nature" to play in inclement weather, Patriots linebacker Roman Phifer said. "We live up here. We play in it. We practice in it. So, obviously, that's somP.thing that we're used to." 
Other Patriots think a slippery finld won't make a difl'nrence to the fifth highest-seoring offense in NFI. history with 522 points and three rcceivors -Marvin Harrison, Heggie Waynn and Brandon Stokely -with more than 1,000 yards receiving. 
"They beat people in cold weather. They beat people on turf," strong safety Hodney Harrison said. 'They're going to catch touchdowns. They're going to run the ball. 11. doesn't matter what surface they're playing on. They could be playing on hot coals. It doesn't matter." 

Friday, January 14, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish to face fa111iliar ene111ies at dual111eet this vveekend 

By MIKE TENNANT 
Sports Writer 
Old foes are making a return 
to South Bend this weekend, on a positive winter training as the No. 21 Irish women's trip to the Caribbean that pit­swimming team takes on No. ted them against Michigan. as 13 Michigan and Illinois. part of the St. Lucia The Irish will look to build Invitational. The meet includ­

llot, d!'licious food on a flaming ).(rill ... Sizzling fun in the clubhouse...No oliH'r t'Pstaunmt in South Beml offers mor·p varit>ty. 
Damon\ Grill is like two restaurants in orw. On ont• sitle, then•'s a 11uiet, relaxing dining room. And on the other side, a fun­filled clubhouse. A full-service bar st~parates the two distinct dining areas. 
"Our branding slogan is 'It All Comes Together ' At Damon's Grill,"' said Shannon Foust, President/CEO of the 1~asual dining chain with more than 135 n~slaunmts nationwide. 
The kind of folks that come togethet· at Damon's Gt·ill include those who Pnjoy Pxeeptional quality, flame-gr-illed food and th1• opportunity to either relax and dine m· lw enter·tained hy the sports and national trivia games on our hig SCI'I'I'n. 
The two dining areas have distinctly difft>n•nt personalities. The music is quider in the dining room, and in most of tlw restaurants, there's a fire in the fin·pla1~e in thP wintertime. The dining mom is itlt>al for I(Hiet, leisurely meals and 
!~1mversation. 
On the other hand, the spacious clubhouse, with its multi-tiered, stadium­style hooths and tahles, is the perfect environment for fun and excitement. The duhhouse features four giant television screens that featm·e sports events, news and national trivia. 
Acconling to Foust, Damon's Grill is linked by satellite to the National Trivia Network where guests compete against othet· players in over :3,500 restaurants and hars nationwide as well as players inside the Damon's Grill clubhouse and har. 
"Dining room and clubhouse guests come together on one very important point -the unique flavor of the ribs, steak, chicken and seafood prepared on Damon's open flame grill," Foust continued. "Om· menu centers around our award-winning barbecued rihs. Side items, salads, desset·ts, and even the beverages that are on our menu are chosen hecause they pair well with the signature Damon's GriU flavor." 
Damon's menu features a long list of appetizers too, including Damon's Famous Onion Loaf which has been on the menu since the founding days, 25 years ago. The Onion Loaf is made in-house from giant Spanish onions, hand­sliced, breaded and fried into a loaf. "It's our most popular appetizer." Foust said, "It takes extra time in our kitchen, hut we think it's worth it to provide our guests with a premium, signature product that they can't get anywhere else." 
Damon's unveils several special 

ed nine events in short-course Championships. meters. Irish teams also finished 
Although the Wolverines third and fourth in the relay. outscored the Irish 209-170 at The team of senior Georgia the invitational, the Notre Healey, sophomore Meghan Dame team has a positive atti­Linnelli and freshmen Noemie 
tude going into Friday's meet. "We weren't 
"We know what to
expecting to do awesome, so we expect. Practicing kinda surprised 
right after them, 
ourselves," 
we know how hard
freshman Caroline Johnson they work." said. 
Johnson and 
Caroline Johnson 
other Irish swim­
Irish swimmer 
mers believe the trip was a com­plete success and 
Johnson was the lone individual winner for the Irish, and is ranked 34th in Division I in the event. 
Also claiming a victory at St. Lucia over the Wolverines was the Irish 400-rneter freestyle relay team. The team of soph­omores Katie Carroll, Rebecca Grove, Ellen Johnson and jun­ior Christel Bouvron finished in a time of 3:59.18, which was more than a full second ahead of the Michigan team. The Wolverines took 15th in the event in last year's NCAA Brand and Morgan Bullock finished with a time of 4:10.34, while the team of freshmen Katie Guida and Raine Paulson-Andrews, senior Katie Eckholt, and sophomore Krissy Archer finished in a time of4:11.76. 
The Fighting Illini are riding 

feel their previous experience high into South Bend on the against the Wolverines will heels of a first-place finish last give then an edge this week­week at the Irvine Invitational end. relay meet in California. The 
"We know what to expect," Illini swimmers finished in the Johnson said. "Practicing right top three of all three meets 
after  them,  we  throughout  the  
know how hard  two-dayevent.  
they work." Johnson won the 100-meter  7Illinois has] a few good swimmers,  The Irish are confident though, and feel prepared  
backstroke at St. Lucia with a time of 1 minute, 5.40 seconds, edging  but they're not as good as Michigan, definitely. "  to face Illinois. "They have a few good swim­mers, but they're  
out NCAA qualifi­ not as talented as  
er Kaitlyn Brady of Michigan.  Caroline Johnson Irish swimmer  Michigan, defi­nitely," Johnson  

said. 
The meet will 
take place at 7 

p.m. tonight and at 10:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Saturday. Irish diving, led by senior Meghan Pury-Eaton, will begin Saturday at 4 p.m. 
This weekend will be the only time Notre Dame will face Illinois this season, while the Irish will face the Wolverines again one week from today in a dual meet in Ann Arbor. 
Contact Mike Tennant at mtennant@nd.edu 

promotions throughout the year, plus their annual RihFest. "RihFest is a celebration of our famous ribs heritage. We always feature our original ribs on the menu, although we sometimes spice up our other RihFest offerings according to popular food trends at.the time. Over our 25 year career, many 
Paid Advertorial 

The Reviews Are Hot-Damon's Grill Puts It All Together 
food fads have come and gone. But in the end, hasically, om· original recipe ribs are the award winners and it always 
seems  to  remain  the favorite,"  Foust  
said.  
The  reviews  of  Damon's  Grill  
confirm  that it's  the hottest place  to  

have it all in South Bend. 


OUND THE NATION 
page 18 COMPI LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Friday, January 14, 2005 
Men's College Basketball AP Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Illinois (58)  16-0  1,783  
2  Kansas (13)  11-0  1,730  
3  North Carolina (1)  13-1  1,636  
4  Wake Forest  13-1  1,553  
5  Duke  11-0  1,496  
6  Oklahoma State  11-1  1,412  
7  Syracuse  15-1  1,405  
8  Georgia Tech  11-2  1,301  
9  Kentucky  10-2  1,198  
10  Texas  11-2  1,085  
11  Mississippi State  14-2  909  
12  Connecticut  9-2  904  
13  Boston College  13-0  823  
14  Washington  13-2  742  
15  Michigan State  10-2  734  
16  Gonzaga  11-3  723  
17  Arizona  12-3  666  
18  Cincinnati  13-1  631  
19  louisville  12-3  502  
20  Pittsburgh  11-2  373  
21  George Washington  111-2  370  
22  Marquette  13-1  345  
23  Alabama  12-3  259  
24  Iowa  12-3  194  
25  Oklahoma  11-2  143  

Women's College Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
leatu record point~ 
1 Duke (27) 15·1 986 
2 LSU (11) 13·1 949 
3 Baylor (1) 12·1 911 
4 Stanford 12·2 809 
5 Ohio State 14·2 800 
6 NOTRE DAME 13·2 741 
7 Rutgers (1) 10·2 690 
8 North Carolina 12·2 689 
9 Michigan Slate 13·2 669 
10 Tennessee 10·3 668 
11 Texas 8-4 632 
12 Minnesota 13·2 614 
13 Texas Tech 11-2 521 
14 Boston College 11·1 464 
15 Vanderbilt 12·2 436 
16 Connecticut 8·4 376 
17 Maryland 10·2 375 
18 Georgia 12·4 324 
19 UCLA 11·3 236 
20 Purdue 10·4 216 
21 DePaul 11·3 178 
22 Iowa 13·2 145 
22 Kansas Stale 10·3 145 
24 Iowa State 11-1 90 
25 Arizona Stale 11-3 82 
Central College Hockey Association 
team CCIIA overall 
Michigan 13·1-0 16-5-1 Ohio State 10-3-1 13·6-3 Nebraska-Omaha 8-7-1 10-9-1 Bowling Green 7-5·2 10-7-3 Northern Michigan 7-5·2 9-7·4 Lake Superior 6-6·2 7-11-2 Michigan Stale 6-8·0 11-10-1 Alaska Fairbanks 5-8·1 6·9·1 Ferris State 4·8·2 '9-11·2 Miami (Ohio) 4-8·2 8-11·3 NOTRE DAME 3·9·4 5·11·5 Western Michigan 4·9·1 9·10·1 
around the dial 
GOLF PGA Tour Sony Open 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA Phoenix at Indiana 7:00p.m., Fox Midwest Dallas at San Antonio 8:00 p.m., ESPN2 Minnesota at Denver 10:30 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 


Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn.­Randy Moss trudged out to his truck in the subzero cold. with a huge, black hooded sweat shirt cover­ing almost his entire face. All that was showing was a carefree smile. 
In his usual flippant manner, Moss showed no remorse for his latest mis­deed. 
Minnesota's controver­sial wide receiver was fined $10,000 Thursday by the NFL for pretending to pull down his pants and moon the Green Bay crowd during a playoff win last weekend. 

"Ain't nothing but 10 grand. What's 10 grand, to me?" said Moss, whose salary this season is $5.75 million. He then jokingly suggested he might per­form a more vulgar cele­bration next time. 
Peter Hadhazy, the league's director of game operations, penalized Moss for unsportsmanlike con­duct in a letter released by the NFL. 
"Your actions were based on poor judgment, did not reflect well on you or the Vikings, and were insulting to many," Hadhazy wrote. "They have resulted in wide­spread criticism and need-
IN BRIEF 
Southern California hiring
Floyd 
LOS ANGELES -Tim Floyd is being hired as Southern California basketball coach, taking the job Rick Majerus accepted then abruptly quit last month. 
USC spokesman Tim Tessalone said Thursday that a news conference will be held Friday afternoon on campus to introduce Floyd. 
The former Chicago Bulls and New Orleans Hornets coach will return to the college ranks, where he was 127­58 in eight seasons at the University of New Orleans, then 81-49 in four years at Iowa State. 
Floyd, 50, was fired as Hornets coach last May after they went 41-41 and lost in the first round of the play­offs in his only season with the team. Leil}~rt delays announcingdeCISIOn 
LOS ANGELES -Heisman Trophy winner Matt Leinart has delayed announcing whether he will return to Southern California for his senior lessly detractnd from Minnesota's dramatic play­off victory. Fans should look to you and your team­mates to see how to com­pete and win in football. But when you lose your focus on playing and engage in sideshows as you did on Sunday, you forfeit much of this." 

Moss also briefly bumped the goalpost with his back­side before hugging team­mates in the end zone fol­lowing a fourth-quarter touchdown catch that clinched the Vikings' 31-17 victory over the Packers. 
League rules mandate discipline for "obscene gestures or other actions 
constrund as being in poor taste." A fine for tlw first ofTense undnr those guide­lines is $5.000. 
The NFL said Moss was tined more than the mini­mum because this isn't the first time he has been dis­ciplined for unsportsman­like conduct. lie paid a $25,000 penalty in 1999 for squirting an official with a water bottle. 
Moss wasn't the only player fined on Thursday. The NFL also fined New York Jets linebacker Erie Barton $7,500 for hitting San Diego quarterback Drew Brees in the head during last weekend's playoff game. 

season or turn pro, saying he will reveal his plans Friday. 
"I need an extra day to continue gathering information," the USC quarterback said Thursday, the day he originally set as his deadline for the decision. 
The NFL deadline for underclass­men to declare for the draft is Saturday. 
Two other USC juniors, linebacker Lofa Tatupu and punter Tom Malone, also are expected to say Friday whether they will enter the draft. 
Leinart, 21, obviously is having a difficult time deciding. 
Early this week he said he has sometimes changed his mind almost hourly. 
The redshirt junior and the Trojans didn't play their final game of the season until Jan. 4, when he threw an Orange Bowl record five touchdown passes in a 55-19 win over Oklahoma that gave USC a sec­ond consecutive national title. 
Play~rs, owners forge new stermd agreement 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -With some of its biggest stars under suspicion and lawmakers demanding action, Major League Baseball adopted a tougher steroid-testing program that will sus­pend first-time oll"enders for 10 days and randomly test players year-round. 
The agreement was hailed by base­ball management and its union Thursday as a huge step f(>rward but was criticized by some as not going far enough because the penalties are less harsh than those in Olympic sports and amphetamines were not banned. 
"''ve been saying for some time that my goal for this industry is zero toler­ance regarding steroids," commission­er Bud Selig said. 
A first positive test would result in a penalty of 10 days, a second positive test in a 30-day ban, a third positive in a 60-day penalty, and a fourth posi­tive test in a one-year ban all without pay. 
------~-----­

-----------------------------~-----------....... Friday, January 14, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 FENCING 
-

Irish return to action against tough field in Kansas City 
will return to action today when to bout in the fiercely competi­By MATT PUGLISI they travel to Kansas City, Kan. tive event, including epeeists Sports Writer to compete in the three-day Kerry Walton, Amy Orlando, North American Cup. Greg Howard, Jesse Laeuchli After a month away from the Many of the squad's top fight­and Patrick Gettings, foilists strips, a number of Irish fencers ers are expected to make the trip Andrea Ament, Rachel Cota and 
Do you have what it takes to photograph 
•
ID.aJor events on ca1npus? 



Becon1e an Observer Photographer! 
Come to our first meeting of the year this Sunday, January 16 at 7:30 pm in the 
basement of South Dining Hall. 


Frank Bontempo and sa,bers display will trump that seen last Marie! Zagunis, Valerie month. Providenza, Angela Vincent, "I think that this [cup] will be Patrick Ghattas, Matthew stronger -the reason is the cal­Stearns and Nicolas Diacou. endar," Bednarski said. "Now, 
"It's a continental competi­after the whole preseason train­tion," Irish coach Janusz ing, [the fencers] are starting the Bednarski said. "It will not be biggest heat-they are going for easy for the kids, but we are everything. All the best fencers 
sending the best.  from the continent  
This  is  at  their  are competing for  
level, and they have to try to get good p~sition in country. Five Irish fencers placed in the top  "It will not be easy for the kids, but we are sending the best.,  their national teams and are already prepared, not like in December where some of them  
five at the North  started a little bit  
American Cup in  Janusz Bednarski  later in training ­ 
Richmond,  Va.  Irish head coach  now,  everybody  

Dec. 10-12 in most recent competition. 
Zagunis took home second place in women's saber after falling to Columbia University rival Emily Jacobson 15-12 in the event finals, and Ament dropped a 15-11 decision to Harvard's Emily Cross in the women's foil finals to claim her own runner-up finish. Ghattas and Walton both picked up a third-place finishes in men's saber and women's epee, respec­tively -Ghattas lost a 15-14 semifinals heartbreaker to the eventual event winner Ivan Lee, while Wayne State's Anna Garina topped Walton one round shy of the finals. Orlando rounded out the quintet of top-five Irish fin­ishes, securing fifth place in women's epee. 
While the skill level at December's North American Cup was impressive, Bednarski believes this weekend's talent will be in_form." 
In addition to providing an opportunity for the bouters to qualify for their respective national teams, the North American Cup will offer one last opportunity to gauge the fencers before the Irish begin dual meet team competition Jan. 21 in New York. 
"It's one of the last steps to check their form and to make final touches to prepare them well for the first dual meet," Bednarski said. "[Notre Dame] will have very strong opponents [this year] -they are the same like last year, or even stronger, so it will be interesting to see." 
After fighting at the Cole Sports Complex in New York Jan. 23, the Irish return home to host the Notre Dame Duals Jan. 29­30 at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles hope to i111prove their record Saturday 

2005-2006 RESIDENT ASSISTANT APPLICATIONS 
Available in the 
Office ofStudent Affairs 
316 Main Building 
Applications are also available for downloading at: http://osa.nd.edu/ 
Completed applications must be submitted by January 19, 2005 

By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
Fresh off a key conference win over the Adrian Bulldogs, the Belles look to continue their winning ways. 
Saint Mary's is looking to bounce back to .500 overall Saturday against the Fighting Scots of Alma College. 
The Belles (7-8, 2-4 in the MIAA) are currently in a four­way tie for fifth in the MIAA with Kalamazoo, Tri-State and Olivet. However, the Belles have fallen well behind undefeated confer­ence leader Albion. With each game crucial between now and the end of the season, wins against bottom-feeder teams like the Scots (1-5), will be impor­tant. 
However, the Belles have been streaky all season, following short winning streaks with los­ing streaks. Coach Suzanne Bellina is looking for the team to get hot down the stretch this season. 
"This stretch, starting tonight, is so important to us," Bellina said following her team's victory over Albion. 
The Scots have been led all season by center Erica Philp, who averages 12.1 points ·and 
7.3 rebounds per game. Philp is joined in the frontcourt by 5­foot-11 forward Michelle Dettling, who has scored 9.8 
points and grabbed 6.8 boards per game this year. 
Senior forwards Emily Creachbaum and Maureen Bush will draw the unenviable task of guarding Alma's twin towers. However, these two have also proven to be a force in the paint. 
Bush is averaging 8.8 points per game. Creaehbaum is aver­aging 13.3 points and 5.5 rebounds per game and was recently awarded MIAA Player of the Week. 
"She's so solid and consisen­tent," Bellina said earlier this season of Creachbaum, "she always gets the job done." 
In their last game, the Scots were destroyed 88-49 by Albion. Alma was outrebounded 39-24 by the Britons. A solid effort by Creachbaum and Bush could control the glass for St. Mary's. However, Philp and Dettling both average more rebounds per game than the Belles forwards. 
Another key player in this game will be Belles shooting guard Bridget Boyce. Boyce is averaging almost 15 points per game to lead the Belles. She will most likely be matched up with Scots Freshman guard Ashley Matuzak. Matuzak didn't start in the early season, but since earn­ing a starting position in the backcourt she has averaged almost 10 points per game. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 14, 2005 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK 

-
Irish enter season ranked No. 10 
Huddle enters season favored to claim the 
5000-meter title 
By RYAN KIEFER Sporrs Writer 
Irish coach Tim Connelly has plenty of reasons to smile this spring. 
lie has a seven-time All­American, an established group of distance runners, and a preseason No. 10 ranking, from trackwiro.com. 
The goal for the Irish this season is simple -to win a Big East title ­something they American who qualified for the 11nals at the U.S. Olympic Trials last summer at the 5,000-meter distance. The junior is considered a favorite for the NCAA title in this event. 
The current concern for Jluddle, though, is her health. Huddle ran the NCAA cross country championships on a broken foot, but still managed to finish 28th. Connelly was cautiously opti­mistic about Huddle's reha­bilitation. 
"She's still just cross train­ing, but we expect her to start running in a week or two," Connelly said. "We don't know if she'll be ready 
havo been "She:<> stilljust for [the] indoor unable to do for [season), but I
cross training, but 
the past four think she will. 
we expect her to
years. She'll definitely The Irish will start running in a be running when take the first we start out­
week or two. " 
step toward this doors." goal Saturday Senior Lauren when they face Tim Connelly King, who is also Contra! Irish coach coming of'(' an 
Michigan and Michigan State in an open meet in Mount Pleasant, Mieh. 
Corning ofT a cross country season in which the Irish 11n­ished fourth in the nation, it is no surprise distaneo run­ning is a strength of Notre Dame's team. 
The star in this group of vetnran runners is Molly lluddle, a seven-time All-
injury, and sen­
ior Kerry Meagher bring valuable experience to the team. Junior Stephanie Madia, an NCAA qualifier at 5,000 meters last spring and an all-American in cross coun­try this passed fall. will also make a significant eontribu­tion to the team's success. 
Madia is one of three cross country all-Americans run­
ning track for the Irish. The others are Meagher and freshman Sunni Olding. 
The Irish will look to improve other areas of the team that have been weaker in previous years in order to win the conference title. 
However, Connelly does not see that to be a weakness this year. 
"I really think we have a balanced team, apart from distance," Connelly said. "We have a good group of sprint hurdlers, an all-American high jumper and a good group of freshman sprint­ers." 
Tiffany Gunn will be the 400-meter hurdle specialist from the Irish, and Stacey Cowan will look to build off an indoor all-American per­formance in the high jump. 
This weekend the focus will be shifted from the distance runners to these other areas of the team. 
"We just want to see where we are at this meet," Connelly said. "It's a great opportunity for our sprinters, jumpers and throwers." 
Connelly made it clear that his team's focus is on larger, long-term goals. 
"Winning the Big East is our goal every season, but we also want to send as many athletes as we ean to the NCAA's," he said. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 

Heis01an 
continued from page 24 
winner, awarded to college football's best player on a yearly basis. As a senior, he had 39 catches for 846 yards and three touchdowns while also carrying the ball 34 times for 144 yards and returning three punts for scores. 
Against Michigan State in Notre Dame's second game of the season, Brown put his name in the mix of possible Ileisman candidates by taking two punts back for touchdowns in a 31-8 Irish victory. 
The second return was espe­cially impressive, as Brown broke numerous tackles before juking one last Spartan defender en route to the score. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

MEN'S TRACK 
Postel, Nurudeen set to lead Notre Dam_e 
By JOHN EVERETT Sports Writer 
The Irish open their season against Central Michigan this Saturday in Mount Pleasant, Michigan. 
The Chippewas are eoming oil' an impressive showing in their first meet, held last week and highlighted by several sprinters and throwers already qualifying provisionally for the NCAAc;. The meet kicks off the indoor track season for the Irish, a season full of promise and reason for opti­mism. 
Notre Dame is the two-time defending Big East men's traek and field champions and is look­ing to make it three in a row. 
Central Michigan, however, should provide the Irish with a challenge, as they are favored to finish first in the Mid-American Conference. 
Head coaeh Joe Piane leads a team with many stars, the brightest of whieh is Selim Nurudeen. Nurudeen competed in the U.S. Olympie trials in July for the 11 0-meter hurdles, holds the Notre Dame record for the 60-meter hurdles and has won the Big East 11 0-meter champi­onship each of the last three years. 
The Irish also feature defend­ing Big East steeplechase cham­pion Hyan Johnson and 400­meters champion Hyan Postel, Postel and Nurudeen will join with Jordan Powell and Trevor McCiain-Duer to reprise their Notre Dame record-holding 1,600-meter relay team. 
Contact John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu 

The Observer is currently accepting applications for the 2005-06 Editor-in-Chief Applicants must submit BOTH a resume and at least an 8-PAGE proposal explaining their interest in the position and their plans for running the newspaper. Applications are due Monday, January 17 by 5 p.m. COMPLETED APPLICATIONS CAN BE SUBMITTED TO THE OBSERVER'S OFFICE IN THE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL. Contact Editor-in-Chief Matt Lazar at 1-4542 for more information.  



CHUY BENITEZfThe Observer 

Irish goalie Morgan Cey makes a save against the USA under­18 team on Nov. 18. 
Friday, January 14, 2005 
Opener 
continued from page 24 
ous two years, graduated in 2004 forcing a number of younger players to step up and fill their shoes. According to Bayliss, the team has more than met his expectations for the challenging rebuilding period. 
"Replacing [Scott and Haddock] was a big priority and based on the performance of the guys this fall, I think we are in much better shape than I expected to be," Bayliss said. "Our team is perhaps the deep­est team I've ever coached." 
The depth of the team plays 
~on ~ee~ ~otre 1!\ame ~exi~m 
-Chicago Tribune: Dec 4, 2004 
Alternative Lifestyles not an Alternative... ND ranks #1 
-Princeton Review: 2004 
Observer Question of the Day: What did you do for MLK day? Answer from 5 students: Nothing. 
-The Observer: Jan 20, 2004 
DO SOMETHING THIS TIME! 
Let the Board ofTrustees hear your voice on issues ofequality at ND by contributing to Student Government's winter presentation 
Focus Group #1: Racism Sunday Jan 16, 8:00pm Focus Group #2: Heterosexism Monday Jan 17, 8:00pm Focus Group #3: Sexism 
Tuesday Jan 18, 8:00pm All focus groups will be held in the Student Govt Office: 203 LaFortune 
Free Pizza and Drinks provided 


Fri., Jan. 14@ T35 PM Hockey VS #12. Ohio State +The first 1000 fans receive a hockey promo mask courtesy of The WB and Meijer 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
into what Bayliss said called table and the lower part of the the team's biggest strength -lineup -I have options I've the bottom of its lineup. never had." 
"The bottom of our lineup, no Although early-season line­matter who plays for us, ups are subject to change and should be a reworking, after 
strength," explained.  he  "The bottom ofour  the fall season Bayliss plans to  
Bayliss expects to see Irackli Akhvlediani, Patrick Buchanan  lineup, no matter who plays for us, should be a  have Steven Bass, Barry King, co-captain Brent D'Amico  
and Ryan Keckley to fill out the five  strength. ,,  and freshman Sheeva Parbhu  
through seven spots in the lineup. "They've grown,  Bobby Bayliss Irish coach  in the top four positions. Although  
and each of those  Parbhu,  an  
guys  is  playing  Omaha native, is  

better tennis now than he ever playing the first college tennis has," Bayliss said. "They all of his career, he performed bring different talents to the well in fall competition. 

"He had a great fall," Bayliss said. "He beat a number of nationally ranked players and probably had as good a fall as any player in the country." 
The freshman joins some of the Irish's most experienced singles players. However, adjusting to the top spots will be a challenge for them all. 
"If we can demonstrate some strength in the top part of the lineup -that's one if -and if is if we can play better doubles than we did in the fall ... then I think we're going to have a very good team." 
Finding the right combina­tions for doubles can be a chal­lenge, and Bayliss has experi­mented with a number of dif­ferent combinations. 

Test 
continued from page 24 
ly with three of them against non-conference opponents. But first, they must take care of business against conference foe Ohio State, who comes into the Joyce Center ranked sec­ond in the conference with a 10-3-1 record. 
The Buckeyes split their last series against Ferris State, beating the Bulldogs 3-1 on Jan. 7 in Columbus, Ohio, before dropping the Saturday game by a score of 3-2 in over­time. Ferris State is currently one of two teams -Miami (Ohio) is the other -tied with Notre Dame for ninth in the conference with 10 points. 
Last weekend, Notre Dame visited Sault Ste. Marie, Mich., for a series with conference foe Lake Superior State, tying 1-1 on Friday and then losing in overtime 2-1 Saturday. The Irish are 1-4-1 in their last six 

meiJer 

Women's Basketball 
Ja~ 

VS Purdue 
Basketball@ 2PM T Hockey@ 7:os PM 

--·Quick Change half­
VS St. John's VS #12 Ohio State 

time show! 
-~"Early arriving fans will +The first soo fans 
receive Current PI  receive a set of  
Trading Cards givea  Leprechaun  
sponsored  Stacking Dolls  

Champion Window courtesy of +come out to see the Notre Dame Coca-Cola Bea Federal 
in person +Amazing Rope Warrio half-time show! 
.com for all the latest 
page 21 

"We've gone through a cou­ple of different transition, at this point -and this is early ­it looks like Keckley and D'Amico will start together, possibly at No. 1, followed by Langenkamp and Parbhu, [but] third doubles had been prob­lematic." 
The matches this weekend will be an opportunity for the Irish to see where they stand against NCAA competition in the regular season. 
"As an opener, I felt like we're not tired," Bayliss said. "We're fresh, we've been here since Jan. 3 practicing and I think we're reading to go." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
CCHA games. 
One reason for Notre Dame's difficulty this season has been a lack of scoring goals. The Irish are dead last in the CCHA with a woeful scoring average of 1.67 goals per game-Lake Superior State is 11th with a 
2.35 goals per game average. 
Even with its anemic offense, the Irish have still been able to keep games close thanks to the play of senior goalie Morgan Cey, who has a record of 3-6-4. 
.­

Cey's 2.24 goals against aver­age is fourth in the CCHA, while his .928 save percentage is currently ranked second. 
"[Cey is] a senior, and he wants to see this team win," Poulin said. "He's seen this team have so much success over his career, and I think he looks at is as saying, 'I'm a senior, and I want this team to go out in a blaze of glory.' 
"This team can definitely rely on its goaltending, but I think maybe we're relying on it a bit too much right now. " 
The Buckeyes counter Notre Dame's goaltending with an impressive goalie of their own. Dave Caruso has collected an 11-4-3 record this season with a 2.24 GAA and a .918 save percentage. Both marks rank in the top six of all CCHA goalies. 
Ohio State's real strength is on offense, where the Buckeyes rank second in the CCHA with a 3.41 goals per game average. 
Junior Rod Pelley (12 goals, 10 assists) and freshman Todd Fritsche (three goals, 19 assists) lead the Buckeyes with 22 points each. Defenseman Sean Collins' 15 points (four goals, 11 assists) is the second best scoring total among CCHA defensemen. 
The Buckeyes have ridden their talented special teams to the top of the CCHA standings, as well. Ohio State's 19.l per­cent power play rate is fifth in the conference and its 8 7. 9 percent killing rate is first. 
Notre Dame drops the puck against Ohio State at the Joyce Center tonight at 7:35 p.m., and Saturday at 7:05p.m. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, January 14, 2005 

Wednesday at West Virginia. early season was how Brey Defeating th1~ Heel Storm gets would deal with the toam's
St. Johns 

the Irish to 3-1 in conference, a depth. In the non-conference continued from page 24 record Brey said he would have ganws, Brey looked at difTen~nt "signed up for" if offered it on lineups and got an idea of what 
this year as it did all of last Christmas Evn. A letdown drops will work. season and took No. 21 Wflst the Irish to 2-2, provides no Against Syracuso and at Snton Virginia to tho limit in a 64-60 momontum bnfore hitting tho Ilall. Brey only went snvnn denp loss on Saturday. road and affects that NCAA -Jordan Cornettn and HussPII 
That's why ll'ish coach Mike tournament resume, despitn Carter worn the only non­Brey won't let his team look only !wing the middle of starters to see playing tinw. In past last yoar's Big East door­January. tlw Villanova game, Hi1:k mat. Believing this team won't CornPlt came of'f' thn bench 
"Then' is nobody in the Big ovPrlook the Heel Storm wlwn Torin Francis got into East that will be OVI~rlooked this becomes morn realistic whnn early foul trouble. year. St. .John's is not the St. putting it in perspective. Brey has a track rt~cord of John's of last year who had a lot "It's important throughout thn shortening his bench on the of problems during Big East season road or in ganws against big­the year and an you are able to time opponents, but lw said interim eoaeh." "/ think each game bounce back," Thursday his futuro rotations Brey said. "Norm kind ofcan dictate Irish guard Chris r.ould change on a ganw-by­Hoberts has them Quinn said. "Wn game basis.
a different 
playing hard, they play 16 games in "I think anything is possible.
rotation."
are quick and they the Big East -Whatever stylf~ of play dietates beat N.C. State, a you aren't going how we would substitution," ranked team by Mike Brey to go 16-0, I don't Brny said. "A guy Jikn Omari about 30. That's all think any team is Isreal this eould be a good
Irish coach 
I know." going to [do that!. game, for him. Cnrtainly Hick 
The one theme "To get to 3-1 ICornettl has given us good coming from the players at in the Big East is very impor­minutes, he didn't get to play practice Thursday and from tant for us especially going on tho other: night, but wn havnn 't Brey himself was using the three-game road trip. Hoad forgotten about him. Saturday's game to bounce back games are so tough in this "I think each game kind of from the loss to the Orange. league, it's very important to go can dictate a difforent rotation." Being able to do that would with a win." greatly help this team before a One of the questions in the Contact Matt Lozar at three-game road trip starts preseason and persisting in the mlozar@nd.edu 
Md;raw said after the game. Sunday's game marks the

Purdue 
third game in a tough stretch continued from page 24 for Notre Dame. 
The Irish must win if they per ganw. are to stop their first losing Purdue has also seen fresh­streak of the young season. 

man Lindsay Wisdom-llylton In order to do so, they hope 
mnergn as one of its key play­that All-American Jacqueline ers. Batteast gets healthy. The newcomer had I I The senior injured her points in tlw Boilermak1~r win <Lilkln in the first half of 
over Mid1igan Wednesday's ey 8t Services 
and is avPrag­game. ing 6.:l points 7 was pretty She averages 
and 2.S 18.4 points and with the founding sponsor
surprised because I 

rebounds per 6.8 rebounds for its 3rd annuaf Life 
game. thought we would per game. 
Entries should describe 
Purdue's give them more Against the 

losses have Huskies, .,.....,,.....,..,., in the life 
competition."

eome against Batteast was Houston at held to eight home. UCLA, Teresa Borton points on 2-for-Duke and Ohio Irish center 12 shooting. State. Notre Dame 
However, the also relies heav­Boilermakers did heat a very ily on point guard Megan 
·;;; January 28, 2005
good Jh~Paul team. Duffy. The junior averages Also leading Purdue is Tye 11.1 points and has 79 assists 
.2005
Houston. who averages 7.5 on the season. points per game. In the post, Teresa Borton 
Purdue conws into Sunday's averages 8.3 points and 5.5 game after a loss against rebounds for the Irish. Minnesota. Wisd o m-lly Iton Notre Dame hopes to get had 10 points and 10 back on track al'tnr rnbounds for Purdue in the Wed rwsd ay 's disappointing defeat. setback. 
Notre DamP, meanwhile, "I was pretty surprised, will try to rPbound arter two because I thought we would eonsecutivP loss1~s. the last give them more competition," 1me at honw to Conrwetieut. Borton said after tho 67-50 
Against the lluskies, the loss to Connecticut. Irish turned thP ball ovnr 17 Tipoff with Purdue is 5 p.m. times and had trouble pulling at tlw Joyee Center. down ddensivP rebounds. 
"We have a lot of work to Contact Heather Van Hoegarden do," Irish eo a e h M u f'fe t at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Do you play a musical instrument? 
I 
. ~

Do you want to be a part of Irish hockey? If so, you can join the 
ll\i5h Hocl{€Y t:l\ttV€1 J:,and 
for 1/22 vs. Wisconsin in Chicago and/or 2/18 vs. Michigan in Fort Wayne! 
FREE FOOD -FREE TICKETS TO THE GAME -FREE TRANSPORTATION You can be part of the Irish Hockey Travel Band! For more information, please contact NO Sports Marketing and Promotions at 1-8393. 
~-;:t-::::t-:-t-:-+7-1 r.-tr-:-:-t-=+711......  conveyors 18 Star in chains  
20 Manner of speaking  
25 Dome-shaped Buddhist memorial  
27 Crackerjack  


Friday, January 14, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

DILBERT 
ANAL 'YSIS AND FOUND 
NO CORRELATION BETWEEN M'Y EFFORTS 
AND M'Y REWARDS. 
PEANUTS 
I-IERE'5 SOMETf.tiN6 YOU PROBABLY 51-tOULD KNOW .. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
r-------------------------~or-------------------------~
f1.5 AND THEN I GOT PAIDI FELT ADRIFT IN A ::o,., AND I PURCHASED SOI"\ESEA OF RANDOMNESS I "' UNNECESSARY 1"\ERCH­DESPERATE AND ABSURD I g oi ANDISE AND NOW I FEELDEVOID OF PURPOSE I 
o FINE.
.5
LOST. 
IF '(OU WANT SOMETI-tiNG, THE TEACHER SAYS TO JUST RAISE YOUR I-lAND... 
HENRI ARNOLD 

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion
JJ~l]]1JE.
Unscramble these four Jumbles. 
one letter to each square, l"m getting my degree 
to form four ordinary words. 
this year. Forty years 
late 

UROCC \ 
[l] 
@2005 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SBELS 
± 
SNULES 
WHEN THE J<E:TII<E:E: J<E:TUJ<NE:I/ TO
[l] 
COI..-LE:GE:, HE: WA5 

www.jumble.com 
PLAC£17 IN THE--­

ARIVED j 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Stop lying, 55 58-Across and perhaps others
Narc's find 26 It's based in 58 Writer of 17-,
6 Ancient pyramid 
Mclean, Va. 19-and builders 34-Across28 It may be 10 Fatigued bunch? 

unleashed 59 Venae cavae 13 "Un Ballo in outlets
29 One with sticky

Maschera" aria 
toes 60 Monarch 14 Tuesday is catcher
32 "Mower maker

named for his 61 Per person 
Germanic 34 Third of a 62 Mean mutt
counterpart 58-Across trilogy 63 Old activist org. 
15 Next to nothing? 37 Break etiquette 64 Rare bird 
16 Golden calf 
at a dinner table 

crafter 65 Be affected by a 40 Meets, as blocked airway 
17 First of a changing58-Across 
conditions

trilogy DOWN 44 Hoops coach 
19 Second of a 1 Pipe application 
Kruger58-Across 2 This isn't true 

45 Ready for war 3 Site of some trilogy 48 Discharge21 Rat tail? 

bombersletters? 

22 Eddy creator 4 Brown ermine
49 Couple

23 Accompanier of 5 Proceed with a
50 Couple's word 

a wondrous feat game plan 52 Bug big-time 
24 Business card 6 Great, to Gaius info: Abbr. 54 Stoke 
7 8-Down's tongue 
8 Djiboutian's ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

neighbor across the strait 9 Like some tars 
1 o Flipped out 
11 Neat 
12 Feeling 
.......-.7-t::+.*-:-1 17 Corporeal 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

1-::-::-+--+­
30 Alway 38 "Walk on the 47 One of the Wild Side" Jacksons
31 Makeup carrier? 
singer 
51 Flash
33 Round fig., say 
39 Disturbed states 35 Some collar 41 Affirm 53 Hose hue attachments 
42 Closer to the 
54 Belong 36 Writer exiled in minute? 56 Top Tatar
1302 43 "Probably ..." 37 Some 46 Correct a key 57 Artistic touch-trademarks problem? ups 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip__________ 
-
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Orlando Bloom, 28; Stephen Hendry, 36; Julia Louis Dreyfus, 44; Richard Moll, 62 
Happy Birthday: There is something whimsical about you this year, but it works. You can draw others to your side and sound convincing when you talk about your future plans. You will gain support and build your vision. You can have lhe success you want just by being honest and loyal to yourself and to your dreams. Your numbers are 5. 17, 24, 26, 39, 46 
ARIES (March 2l-Aprill9): Nothing will be stable, especially where finances are concerned. Concentrate on accomplishment and doing what you know will bring the highest returns. Protect yourself from phonies. *** TAURUS (April20-May 20): You've got a lot going for you today. Believe in yourself and your ideas, and you will he convincing when you talk about your plans with potential partners. **** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): If you act too fast, you may end up making a mistake you cannot retract. Opportunities are available hut someone may tempt you to try something that will not tum out to he advantageous. ** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take the initiative and make the first move if you want to get to know someone better. Common interests will lead to a close bond. Visiting. communicating and traveling are highlighted. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Strive to make things a little different around your home and you will grab the attention of neighbors, friends and your family. Sudden financial changes are apparent. Be smart with your money. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Today is all about partnerships and making them the best you can. Bending a little to accommodate someone you really care about will pay off. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will have a different way of viewing things when it comes to work. Don't fight the changes in your career direction or within the company you are working for. It will be favorable. *** · SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will be in the mood to get things done and to make whatever changes are necessary to boost your confidence. You will get a good huy if you go out shopping today. ***** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Put your heart and soul into your work. Trying to sort through your personal problems will be like spinning your wheels. focus where you'll prosper. ** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will enjoy the company of friends and family, especially if you get to travel or do something unusual with them. You will be in an expressive mood. so let everyone know how you feel. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be drawn toward unusual careers. U nexpectcd changes will help you make up your mind about your f ut.ure direction. A gift, winning or dividend will surprise you. *** PISCES (Feb.l9-March 20): You will be unpredictable if you are forced to make a personal decision. Don't put pressure on yourself: instead of jumping into something, check it out from every angle. *** 
Birthday Baby: No one is ever sure what you will do next except you. You have your own ideas and a special curiosity. Nothing should surprise the people who know you best. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, January 14, 2005 
page 24 
FooTBALL 

Brown exploring options in football program 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
Charlie Wnis and his new Notre Dame eoaehing stall' have Super Bowl and national ehampionship rings, head eoaching nxpt~rience and numerous accolades and awards to their eolledivc names. 
They don't, however, have a lleisman Trophy winner. At least notyot. 
N 0 BASKETBALL 
Notre Dame looking to bounce back after 70-61loss to Syracuse 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
Coming off a disappointing home loss to No. 7 Syracuse, the pnrfoet opponent for the Irish (10-3, 2-1 in the Big East) on Saturday at 2 p.m. would seem to be St. John's (6-6, 0-2). But this isn't the 2004-05 edi­tion of tim Hed Storm that had six scholarship players sus­pended in the middle of last soason, lired coach Mike .Jarvis night games into the campaign and lost 15 of its last 17 games. This is a St. John's tnam that 
lwat  then-No.  17  North  
Carolina  State  63-45  in  
Novombnr  and  held  the  

Wolfpack to 10 first-half points, won as many games by Dec. 30 
see ST. JOHNS/page 22 
Former Irish great and 1987 lleisman win­
ner, Tim Brown, was at Notre Dame on Thursday to explore a possible return to South Bend to become 

involved with Brown the football program in some 
manner, Associate Athletic Director John Heisler said Thursday evening. Brown cannot help with recruiting unless he is hired by the University, either as a eoach or graduate assistant. 
"He was here," Heisler said. "He is similar to a number of for­mer players who have expressed inter~.st in helping the football team. 
Brown, who recently finished his 17th season in the NFL, has been one of the greatest wide receivers in history. The longtime Los Angeles/Oakland Raider has been selected to 11 Pro Bowls, caught 1,094 receptions and amassed 14, 934 yards receiving as well as 100 career receiving touchdowns. Be spent last sea­son with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers after 16 years with the Haiders. 

Heisler said Brown is trying to plan his future and looking into 
Searching for answers 
TIM Observer 



Irish hoping to snap two-game losing streak this Sunday 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
Two straight Big East loss­
es, and the Irish  are  on  the  
ropes.  
After  losing  to  No.  16  

Connecticut on Wednesday and Villanova on Jan. 9, No. 7 Notre Damn (13-3, 2-2 Big East) is back in action against in-state rival, No. 24 Purdue on Sunday. 
Purdue (10-5, 3-2 Big Ten) is led by sophomore forward Erin Lawless, who averages 
15.8 points and 5.6 rebounds per game for the Boilermakers. She is joined by Katie Gearlds and her 
13.3 points and 4.1 rebounds 
see PURDUE/page 22 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Young lineup leads teatn into ne-w season 
Toledo and Illinois State on
By KATE GALES Saturday at 9 a.m. and 2 p.m. 
Sports Writer 
"There were some question marks that we had to address,"Tho racquets are restrung. 
Bayliss said. ''I'm pretty satis­
Thn lirwup is revamped. Eck 
l'ied with the answers I 
Tennis Cnntnr awaits. 
received." 
The Irish take the courts for Luis Haddock and Matthew 
the first timn in the regular 
Scott, who had dominated the season after completing what two top positions for the previ­
eoach Bobby Bayliss callml "a great fall." They will play see OPENER/page 2 I all possiblo opportunities -from playing another season to assess­ing several business ventures. 
''I'm not sure where it goes from here," Heisler said. "lie has a lot of options. I can't speak for him. Ilc's just exploring his options and figuring out, 'Where docs my life go from here?'" 
Brown is Notre Dame's seventh and most recent lleisman Trophy 
see HEISMAN/page 20 
HOCKEY 

Busy stretch awaits the Irish 
the CCIIA) start their busiest night game to be played at
Team will play five 
stretch of the year Friday, in Chicago's Allstate Arena. games in the next which they will play five "It's a great thing," Irish games in nine days. Notre coach Dave Poulin said. "A Jot 
nine days Dame faces No. 12 Ohio State of times you focus too much (13-6-3, 10-3-1) in a two­on what you're struggling game series this weekend at with, when you're not playing
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 

the Joyce Center, then travPls games. I honestly feel that this 
Associate Sports Ediror 

to Green Bay, Wise., to face weekend is a great test for us, Michigan State in an unusual but it's also a great time for us 
For a team that has had its Tuesday night matchup. The to step up." share of early troubles, the team finishes up its hectic The Irish might relish the next few days might be just streak with a two-game series large span of games, especial-what the doctor ordered. next weekend against 
The Irish (5-11-5, 3-9-4 in Wisconsin, with the Saturday see TESTIpage 2 I 
en 
MEN'S TRACK 
NO WOMEN'S TRACK 
FENCING 

SMC SWIMMING 
PGA

SMC BASKETBAll 
LLI
1-
c.,) Postel leads the Irish 
Notre Dame enters 
The Irish return to 

Saint Mary's is look-
The Belles are looking 
Michelle Wie shot a 75 
z in the season opener 
the season ranked No. 
action after a one month 

for their first win of the 
ing to get back to .500 
in the Sony Open. 
against CentraI 
I 0, led by seven-time 
break in the North 

overall against Alma 
season against Alma
a: ::5 
Michigan this Saturday 
All-American Molly 
American Cup. 
College. 

College.
= c::c in Mount Pleasant,1 
Huddle. 
Mich. 
= 

-I:L. !;: 
page 20 
page 20 
page 19 

page 19 
page 16 
page 16
en 


•'. 
.. .~· ~ . I~., • 

page 2 The Observer+ IN FOCUS Friday, January 14, 2005 
College ready for inauguration 

Alumni, academic representatives on campus for ceremonies 
Indiana Hepresentative Chris 
By ANGELA SAOUD Chocola. 
Saint Mary's Editor 

Some of the delegates in attendance will be presidents Saturday will be no ordi­from other colleges and uni­nary day for any of tho mem­versitins. The presidents from bers of the Saint Mary's com­Bethel College, Hope College, munity. The semester will IUSB, Manchester College, kick ofT with a cnremony like Kings College, Midwestern no othnr. ofTnring the commu­University and the current nity a glimpse into the futuro presidents from Notre Dame a future with Carol and Holy Cross will all be in Moonny at tho helm. attendance for Mooney's 
Mooney will be inaugurated inauguration. as the I I th president of Saint Mooney graduated from Mary's and the first lay grad­Saint Mary's with her under­uate pn1sident Saturday at graduate degree in 1972. She 
1:30 p.m. then attended the Notre 
And while the public is Dame law school where she invited to attend the cnrnrno­graduated first in her class. ny, it is the faculty In 1980 she and students who joined the Notre will he a part of Dame law
"We'll have around 

tlw n v n n t t h at school faculty,
120 delegates from

many have bnPn becoming an looking forward to out oftown and associate law for some limn. professor in
approximately 25 
According to 1984. From
.'iaint Mary's Board

Dean of faculty 1988 to 1991 and symposium oJ.r7·rustess. " she served as committee <:hair an assistant Pat White, rwarly dean. She
Pat White

200 delngates will became a full
dean of faculty 

join Moonny dur­law professor in ing her inaugural 1991 and an cnrnmony. associate dean 
"Wn'll have around 120 dnl­in 1992. ngatns from out of town and Moonny's inaugural ceremo­approximately 25 Saint ny will be similar to former Mary's Board of Truslnns president Eldred's inaugura­lnwmbnrsl plus a number of tion ceremony. Faculty and olhnr area alumruw," White mombers of the senior class said. "We're going to havn a will march in rngalia during fair amount of pnople here." thn procession of the ceremo­
Thn Exnc.utive Dirnetor of ny. Ninnty-two delegates were lhn Women's College Coalition prnsent whon Eldred was Susan E. Lennon will give a inaugurated, and while presi­grneting at the Pvent. as will dents of both Notre Dame and othnr delegal<~s. including Holy Cross spoke at Eldred's ceremony, this time they will offer short speeches along with many others. 
In 1996, Mooney was named vice president and associate provost of Notre Dame, a position she held until she was·named the Saint Mary's President, replacing Marilou Eldred, on Dec. 26, 2003. Mooney began .work at Saint Mary's on June 1, 2004 and now seven months later, she will begin her term as the inaugurated president at Saint Mary's. 
When named as the presi­dent of Saint Mary's, Mooney said she was committed to carrying forward the Saint Mary's Master Plan and the Strategic Plan. With the com­pletion of the on-campus stu­dent apartments and the nearly-completed new stu­dent center, she has stayed true to the course. 
Mooney's other priorities since arriving on cam pus have been focusing on-the academic excellence of the College and ensuring that the school continues to attract "talented young women." 
In addition to Saturday's inauguration ceremony, there will be an information booth from 8 a.m. until 1 p.m. in LeMans Hall where staff will be available to answer any questions visitors have about Mooney or Saint Mary's. There will also be a reception immediately following the ceremony. 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 


KELLY HIGGINSfThe Observer Professors and students gathered Wednesday to discuss the proposed 1972 Saint Mary's-Notre Dame merger, an Important milestone In the College's history . 
Mooney's presence felt by student body 

and tha~ s.he's so p~es~nl o_nBy DANIELL£ LERNER campus. hlllnon sard. She rs 

In Focus Writer 
somnonn to look up to bncausn shn has suceondnd in a world 

Anticipation continues to whern mnn typically have grow on campus as studonts more luck. That's somnono we prepare for the inauguration want leading our school." of Carol Ann Mooney, the 11th In an attnm pt to keep tho President of Saint Mary's studrmt body informnd, bright College. pink T-shirts wnre made with 
Students were invited to par­the evnnt sehedule on the take in a weeklong celebration baek. Student government of events before Friday and rnprnsentatives handed them Saturday's inaugural activities. out to all studr)nts intnrosted. 
Saint Mary's sophomore "I think the shirt is a really 
Katie Treder is  good  idea,"  
one  of  many  Treder said.  "I  
students looking forward to Mooney's  "It's obvious she cares a lot about  think it gave us, as students, a part in Ithe  
Inauguration.  the students. Rut  Inauguration]  
''I'm really excited about it because it opens her up to every- most importantly she -cares about our opinnions and  and gave us an opportunity to fnnl morn inelud­nd."  
one," Treder.  said "I  ideas."  Saint Mary's sophomore Lnda  
think it's a real­ DePalma thinks  
ly great way to  Katie Treder  allowing  stu­ 
get the students  student  dnnts to have tim  

involved." 
Students are not only encouraged to attend the inauguration, but many have participated in tho actual planning process and organiz­ing of events. 
Student trustee Sarah Brown said she has attendod a variety of events and is really enjoying the week. 
"I think it's going really well," Brown said. "Once we got back on campus from break there was all this excite­ment and buzz going around which really livened up the campus. I think this week and all the history-type events are a really good way to pull together the time from when Mooney was here and now." 
And with the buzz around campus growing as inaugura­tion day approaehes, students are looking are seeing Mooney as more than just someone being talked about: they sec her as a role model. 
Junior Emily Fapnon said she was immediately impressed with Mooney after meeting her last semester. 
"I think it's great that we have a lay woman president 
day oil' to attend 
the symposium is anothnr way to exposn stu­dents to thn nnw president. 
"I think not having dass will allow pnopln morn timn to attend thnsn events," DePalma said. 
During her time at Saint Mary's, Mooney has remainnd a visibln figure on campus. She has attended sporting nvnnts, Senior Dad's weekend, hnlpnd nnw studnnts move in, and met with naeh rnsidoncn hall to talk with students. 
Saint Mary's junior .Jennifer Parker has taken notice of Mooney's visibility. 
"It's good to see hnr and to know who our President is," Parknr said. "It shows she is enthusiastic about coming here and enjoys her job." 
And many others agroe. 
"It's obvious she cares a lot about the students," Treder said. "But most importantly, she earns about our opinions and ideas. That's what's important." 
Contact Danielle Lerner at lern6311@saintmarys.edu 


.• .·. 

--~-------·-·---·..~·,· ·. 
Friday, January 14, 2004 The Observer + IN FOCUS page 3 
Future of Saint Mary's bright for students under Mooney 
There was something with us in the church last spring when Dr. Mooney gave her opening remarks to the student body. Our l'uture president, Dr. Carol Ann Mooney, 
Jacqueline

stepped gra­
Cuisiner

ciously up to the micro­
senior class

phonn, and as 
president

she spoke, a brilliant light eame through the stain glass windows in the Church of Our Lady of Loretto. Many of us noticed the light, and we talked about it afterward. "Did you see that?" And thus began a new era in the rich history at Saint Mary's College. 
Since the mass last spring, I have gotten to know more about our future president. I have learned that she loves to dance, and she loves pink (just like many of us). But what I person­ally have come to respect about Dr. Mooney is that it seems to me she has spent more of her time here in the past few months seeking to understand us, rather than to get her mes­sage understood as to what she will do as president. We've seen her observing us at our SMC Toastal and chatting with our dads at the Senior Dad's Weekend events in November. 
And last fall, Dr. Mooney was eager to sit down with the inau­guration dance committee in order to give us her feedback for the feeling on campus during the year 1972 (her graduating year), which we will try to recre­ate at the dance on Sunday. 
One aspect about Dr. Mooney that I think is so special and unique is that she, herself, attended Saint Mary's. Wednesday, one senior I know complained about the fact that she had to put on her cap and gown on Saturday for the Inauguration. "It's just depress­ing to put it on," she stated. I agree. None of us want to think about leaving. There's some­thing about being a student here that can't ever be described; it can only be experienced. That is why I think it's so wonderful that Dr. Mooney attended our col­lege. She's one of us. As Sarah Catherine White, our student body president, casually stated once, "She's an alum, she has four girls of her own, she just gets it." 

I don't know exactly where Saint Mary's is headed in the future, but I am hopeful. I can't explain why. An attempt to explain that would be like trying to describe the affect that Saint Mary's has on a woman. It would be like trying to explain the light we all saw in the church that afternoon. I just have this feeling that Dr. Mooney has a vision that includes contin­uing to strengthen women so that we, like many before us, will leave as well-rounded, thoughtful individuals, rich in spirit and in hope. 
Jacqueline Cuisiner is the president of Saint Mary's Class of 2005. She can be contacted at cuis2245@saintmarys. edu. 
The views of this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.· 
Past Saint Mary's Presidents 

1997-2004  ~larilou Eldred  
1986-1995  \Villiam flickev  
.I  
1975-1986  John l)uggan  
1965-197 5  Edward llency*  
John !vlcGrath*  
Sister :v1arv Grace* . . •'  
1961-1965  Sister Maria Renata r)ruJy  
1934-1961  Sister _l\htddcva  
1931-1934  Sister Inna Burns  
1916-1931  1\:lothcr Pauline ()'Neill  

*Each scrn.·d separately from I%:1 1975 
MII<E HARKINS/ObseiVer Graphic 


KELLY HIGGINS!fhe ObseiVer 

Just as when Carol Mooney was a student, many hours are spent in Haggar College Center buying books and purchasing snacks. However, businesses will move to the new student center. 
Faculty express enthusiasm for inaugural celebration 
Professors will lead day-long academic symposium, participate in inauguration ceremony 
By MEGAN O'NEIL In Focus Writer 
Arter months of anticipation, Saint Mary's faculty members are ready to don their academic regalia and officially welcome Carol Ann Mooney as the new College president during this weekend's inauguration celebra­tion. 
.Just as in the presidential search process, faculty will play a key role in the inauguration pro­ceedings. With all elasses can­celed for today they will host a daylong symposium examining the role of liberal arts in academic and leadership development. Saturday they will be part of the inauguration ceremony proces­sion, which will include the cur­rent senior class as well as repre­sentatives from numerous aca­demic institutions. 
Pat White, dean of faculty and chair of the symposium commit­tee, said the symposium serves as a great opportunity for faculty and students, as well as guests, to discuss the history and the future of liberal arts. 
"We are trying to show that the liberal arts is a living tradition and where we go and what we make of liberal is our responsibili­ty," White said. "Saint Mary's should be in the forefront of where liberal arts is going." 
Students should regard today's symposium as a substitute to classes, White said. The commit­tee, in fact, was hesitant to use the term "canceled," when refer­ring to classes, he said. 
"It was very important to Dr. Mooney to highlight the academic excellence of the College," said White. "[the symposium] is some­thing unusual and distinct thing about our college. We are hoping all the students come because it is a rare occasion." 
And though some faculty mem­bers expressed r:oncerns over a lost class day, for the most part the cancellation did not damper their enthusiasm for the inaugu­ration. 
Chemistry professor Dorothy Feigl said she is usually strongly opposed to canc~ling classes but that an inauguration only comes once every five or 10 years and the college should celebrate. 
Feigl, who will be one of eight symposium presenters, said Mooney has done an excellent job of introducing herself to the Saint Mary's community, spending time in each building and with each department. 
"I am very pleased with her so far: She is extremely bright and she seems to really have a sense of accessibility in that she really listens to people and listens to ideas," Feigl said. 
Mary Connolly, chair of the math department, said the faculty is looking forward to the presi­dential inauguration with great enthusiasm. A veteran professor, Connolly will mark the third inau­guration of her Saint Mary's tenure at tomorrow's ceremony. 
"I have been talking it up with all of the students because it is a golden opportunity, and it won't come again during your career as a student," she said. 
In her one semester as presi­dent of Saint Mary's, Mooney has impressed Connolly with her hard work and focus. 
"She is absolutely terrific," Connolly said. "She is very smart, a good listener, a good problem solver and she places academics at the forefront of everything." 

Elaine Meyer-Lee, director of international and intercultural learning at the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership, described the presi­dential transition thus far as seamless. 
"We knew from her colleagues at Notre Dame that she had a real track record in women's and intercultural issues of real action and she has shown up at about everything we have given her an invitation to," Meyer-Lee said. 
Meyer-Lee said she thinks it is great to be inaugurating a person who values diversity and who knows from personal experience the importance of women's lead­ership. 
"She had been very supportive of our work bringing diversity to increase excellence here at Saint Mary's and highlighting the advantages of a women's environ­ment for leadership develop­ment," Meyer-Lee said. 
When inaugurated on Saturday as the 11th president of the College, Mooney will become the first lay graduate to head Saint 
Mary's. According to some faculty members, that fact alone makes ·this weekend's ceremonies 
unique. 
"She is the first lay president of 
the College who is a Saint Mary's 
graduate. I think to recognize that 
is important," said political sci­
·ence professor Sean Savage. 
English professor Jeanne 
Rhodes has worked at Saint 
Mary's for 40 years in four differ­
ent departments. Rhodes first met 
Mooney when the new president 
was still a law student at the 
Notre Dame Law School, where 
Rhodes' husband was a professor. 
Mooney was an outstanding 
student, Rhodes said, and later an 
outstanding administrator. Her 
work was always characterized 
by her direct and open attitude. 
"Carol had a lot of vitality, and 
of course she went to school here 
and she knows the school and she 
loves it," Rhodes said. "I think we 
are very lucky because I think she 
will bring a lot of happiness to the 
job, in the job. I don't think she 
will be fazed at all." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at 
onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
page 4 The Observer + IN FOCUS Friday, January 14, 2005 

College hosts vveek of events to celebrate inauguration 
By MEG CASSIDY 
In Focus Wri1cr 
Nothing gels ~~ollege students ~~xciled quito like frnn T-shirts. And Saint Mary's is no excep­tion. 
ln order to initiate thn ~~nlhu­siasm on llw Saint Mary's ntm­pus for the upcoming inaugura­tion of CollegP Pn~sidnnl Carol Moorwy, the Saint Mary's Board of GovernarH~e distributed free inauguration T-shirls to the student body on Monday after­noon. The bright pink shirts feature a us1d'ul calendar on tlw back that outlines the wonk's sdwduln of events. 
This is a busy week for the Collnge community. The inau­guration of tlw College's 11th president will formally take place on Saturday afternoon. 
Lnading up to the cer.emony itself is a week's worth of activ­ities and events for students to participate in and enjoy. Many students have already put a lot of time and energy into plan­ning these events and the antieipation on campus is high. 
Senior elass president Jacqueline Cuisinier said the student inauguration commit­tee began planning this week months ago. 
Cuisinier said Mooney per­sonally met with the planning committee and had a lot of ideas and. input about how the inauguration week could be a positive one for the entire com­munity. 
"The week of events is thorned around our new presi­dent and the dif'ferences between her graduating year from Saint Mary's and today," Cuisinier said. 
The theme "Then and Now" is the ins pi ration for this week's schedule of events, whieh is cnnll~rnd on invigorat­ing the College's identity by cel­ebrating a new beginning while appreciating its past. 
The events b1~gan on Tuesday night with a forum entitled "Then and Now: Same Issues, Different Women." This discus­sion-based forum brought alumni and current students togntlwr to talk about large social issues that both sides 
could learn from. The topics included the wars in Vietnam and Iraq, student activism and apathy, changing roles of women and feminism and 1~hanges in the Church. 
On Wednesday at noon, anothnr forum focused on the issue of the proposed merge between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's that occurred in 1<J72 whnn Notre Dame became a co-ed institution. Like the other scheduled events, the intent for tho lor.ture was to reaffirm the uniqun idnntity of Saint Mary's while also appreciating the his-. tory of the school as it enters a new age. 
Thursday night the movie "Now and Then" was shown in Carroll Auditorium at 7 p.m. 
And today, an ali-day sympo­sium will be held in ()'Laughlin Auditorium from 9:30 a.m. to 
4:30 p.m. in lieu of elasses. Students are strongly encour­aged to attend and participate in this unique event, which was designed by seniors Mary Pauline Moran and Mary Kathryn Homer. It will feature professors and students as well as other keynote speakers from around the country who will provide diverse perspectives on the theme of the symposium: "Edueating Women, Transforming Lives: The Liberal Arts in the 21st Century." 
Vice Preside-nt, Dean of Faculty and symposium com­mittee chair Patrick White wrote to students over Christmas break about the sig­nificance of this event to the Saint Mary's community, and he encouraged individuals to attend this important event. 
"Hy taking advantage of the symposium, students and facul­ty will celebrate with President Carol Ann Mooney and demon­strate our eommitment to Saint Mary's as a liberal arts col­lege," White said in his e-mail. "This symposium offers us all an opportunity to pause and consider what we are about as a college, what education should mean and how we can engage in the discovery of the knowledge that helps us create our own humanity." 
Saturday's events are een-


tered on the inauguration itself, beginning with a 9 a.m. mass in the Chureh of Loretto. The inaugural ceremony will be held in O'Laughlin Auditorium at 1:30 p.m. with a reception to follow in the din­ing hall. The ceremony will include music by the Saint Mary's College Women's Choir and this year's senior elass will march in cap and gown. 
Sunday night from 7 to 10 p.m., the week of inauguration celebrations will culminate with a dance in the Angela Athletic Facility. The theme for the dance is also "Then and Now," and students can choose to wear either a costume inspired from '70s fashions, or modern attire. The music will dually feature popular songs from both eras. 

Senior and co-chair of the inaugural dance committee, Lindsay Greene said Mooney met with her committee and shared with them her ideas for the night. Greene said that the purpose of the dance is for stu­dents to get the opportunity to meet and interact with Mooney on a more personal basis. 
"We will be raffling off some movies and CDs from her sug­
gestions and will definitely be providing Butterfinger's, as they are her favorite," Greene said. 
There will also be food from Jimmy Johns and Fazoli's at the dance. 
After all the planning that has gone into making this week an eventful one, the schedule is in place for a celebration that aims to unite and inspire the Saint Mary's community as it embarks on a new beginning. 
Contact Meg Cassidy at cass0593saintmarys.edu 


..­







