
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Construction alters the face of ND 
By KATE ANTONACCI Associate Nt·ws Editor 
Thn brightnr-than-nvnr Dome and tho top-notch "Gug" may bn getting all the attention, but sev­eral othnr construction projects underway on campus will soon make thnir prosnnen f'olt in stu­dent lit'!~. 
From tho majostie new entranr.e to tlw rerouted Edison Boad to tho rnnovated Health Serviens building, changes are undnrway at Notrn Dame, and eonstruction erews worked busily over tho surnnwr months to pre­
pare tho campus for the 2005-06 ·school year. 
Their efforts are seen most visi­
bly through work on the campus 
road project, as Edison Road and 
Hotrte 23 were widened, and a 
large portion of Edison was 
demolished and realigned so a 
f(Jur-lane north-south road could 
be created where Edison met Ivy 
Hoad. 
'The campus road project went spectacularly," said Executive Vice President John Affleck­Graves. "It is live months ahead of schedule." 
see CHANGES/page 4 

Transpo offers new routes for ND/SMC 
Company gives free transportation throughout both campuses and the South Bend area 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
For cash-strapped stu­dents, it's a lot better than hitchhiking. 
The South Bend Public Transportation Corporation (THANSPO) has established a public route that lets Notre Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents, faculty and staff ride for free, provided they show identification. 
"Over the years we hear from different community groups about service needs," THANSPO general manager Mary McLain said. "This will provide greater connectivity for college age passengers to businesses in the communi­ty." 
A new routing loop called The Sweep will travel 
between Notre Dame, Angela and State Hoad 933, University Village and Saint Mary's. The Sweep will con­nect with the pre-existing but newly modified Route #7 at Library Circle. Houte #7 will now include stops along the Grape Road corridor. 
Dan Skendzel, director of administrative services for the University, said the new routes use Angela and SH 933 to get to Saint Mary's, no longer traveling on Holy Cross Drive like last year's shuttle. 
"I think the new route serves the primary access points to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's," Skendzel said. "And the trolley concept is visually appealing." 
Skendzel said TRANSPO 
see TRANSPO/page 4 



Missing student found in St. Joe County, safe 
By KATE ANTONACCI Aw>ciatc News Editor 
Polieo eancellnd their suareh for Stl~phnn Liu, the Notre Dame sophomore who went missing Thursday morning, after he was locat­ml in north­
o rn St. Josoph County Friday af'tnrnoon, authorities said. 
Li u, 19, was located by police after a tow truck driver spotted the stu­dnnt and recogniznd his car and physical description from news reports, said 


Capt. Philip Trent, public information officer for the South Bend Police. 
Liu is "safe and fine," Trent said in a press release. 
Trent said it was thanks to the publicity the story received that Liu was found. 
"This is a textbook exam­ple of our cooperation help­ing solve a case," said Trent, who could not be reached for further comment. 
The University also declined to release further details on the case. 
"We're obviously very pleased that he was found safe and sound, but my understanding was that the family wants as much priva­ey as possible," University spokesman Matt Sturin said. 
see FOUND/page 4 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Interest shovvn in WNDU 

Several qualified bidders vie for station 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
Associate News Editor 
Nearly five months after Notre Dame announced its plans to sell Miehiana Telecasting Corp. (MTC), the operator of WNDU-TV, multi­ple bidders have expressed interest in purchasing tlw on-campus NBC afl'iliato. officials said. 
A numbnr of "expnrinncnd. high quality operations" have statnd their interest in buying the station, which Notre Damn has owned sineu tho 1950s, University President Father John Jenkins said. 
"We're ploasod with the numbor and quality of' firms that are interested in pur­chasing WNDU," he said. "I think it will bo in good hands with any number of thosn. So that's whero we are now. !There arnl several bidders, we'rp talking with them and I hopn wo'll got a resolution before too long." 
Tho University announcod April 1 that Kalil and Co., a brokerage l'irm based in Tuscon, Ariz., had been hired to look into tlw possi­ble sale of MTC. 
Kalil and Co. has boon involvf~d with thn sale or tel-
see WNDU/page 6 

ND offers courses in Quechua 
Peruvian language vie!Ded as one ofLatin America's most important 
By JOE TROMBELLO News Writer 
Junior Kevin Blinn received some strange reactions from friends and family last spring when they learned of his deci­sion to take Notre Dame's first­ever beginning Quechua course. 
"My dad right ofT the bat was like, 'You are taking what and why?'" Blinn said. "Hardly any­one has heard of Quechua. [My friends] didn't even know it was a language." 
In fact, not only is Quechua a language, it is one of Latin America's most important indigenous languages, accord­ing to Ted Beatty, an associate professor of history and fellow of the Kellogg Institute. 
"There are millions who speak Quechua as a primary language," he said. "We see 
-.• .. 

[the indigenous perspective) as critical to the study of Latin America." 
Quechua is most prominent in Peru, and was also the lan­guage of the Incans before Spanish conquerors destroyed the once-powerful civilization in the 16th century. Notre Dame is currently one of only 14 univer­sities that offer the language. 
Notre Dame faculty stressed the importance of offering courses in an indigenous lan­guage rather than simply teaching courses in more domi­nant languages like Spanish or French. 
"The assumption is if you are to study Latin America, you need to know Spanish," Beatty said. "That will get you a cer­tain distance ... but there are limitations. For South America ... Quechua is the most impor­tant and the most widespread [indigenous language]." 
Ted Cachey, chair of the department of romance lan­guages and literatures, said the Quechua courses complement the department's mission to help students realize "tho importance of knowing lan­guages and knowing the world through languagns." 
lie also bolievns that tho courses, taught in alternating years by two women from Cuzeo, Peru -the andent capi­tal of tho Inean mnpirn -will improve the divnrsity of aca­demic expnrieneos students can be ex posed to. 
"We are excited about having the opportunity to offer Quechua. It also corresponds to a goal that we have of enhanc­ing diversity of the eollegn and the UnivPrsity ... indigenous languages represent a souren of diversity to us," he said. ")Also] 
see QUECHUA/pagc 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, August 29, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 


The big questions 
It h<L'> been over a year since I came to Notre Dame lor my Frosh-0 weekend, but I can remember those first crazy days dearly. While I did manage to have a few meaningful conversations that weekend (even at Domerlest), most 
Karen Langley 
exchanges required 
me to say no more 

News 
than "Hi, I'm Karen 

Production
from New Jersey and 

Editor 
now from Farley 
Hall." 

This year, I returned to campus as a 
sophomore and realized that this was 
going to be a very good year. I was no 
less excited to come to school this year. In 
fact, the biggest difference was that as a 
sophomore, I know people. 

While missing so many people over the 
long four months ofsummer made me 
long for the return to campus, I had for­
gotten that the big questions ofFrosh-0, 
the "What is your name? Where are you 
from?" would be replaced by another set 
that would become no less repetitive. 
"How was your summer? What did you 
do?'' became the mantra among the 
uppercl&'ismen who arrived on campus 
early. 

Being from Jersey hardly sets me apart 
among college students, and so this year 
I didn't mlnd having a more interesting 
answer to the generic back-to-school 
questions. 

"It w&'i interesting," I said. "I worked at 
a medical clinic for homeless people. And 
I lived in a shelter." 

After &<;suring people that I do still 
have a place to live and thanking them 
for offers to crash on their sofas, some 
wanted to know more about my Summer 
Service Project in Albuquerque, New 
Mexico. 

I told them it was a pretty crazy sum­
mer. I saw the doctors treating a man for 
a gunshot wound in the head, and I 
arrived home one night shortly before a 
man tried an unsuccessful armed rob­
bery ofthe restaurant next door to the 
shelter. 

I told them that after some ofthe con­
versations I had, I doubt awkwardness 
will ever again bother me. There were 
days when a nurse would ask me to talk 
for 10 or 15 minutes with someone who 
was newly homeless because he or she 
had just gotten out ofprison. I learned 
that California penitentiaries are the best 
place to get a colored tattoo, and the ex­
cons listened to how the Irish student 
body rushed the field after beating 
Michigan last year. 

I told them it was a lonely summer, and 
that I missed my family and friends so 
much my cell phone bill became an issue. 
At the same time, I met some incredible 
people. Some were breaking out ofa gen­
erations-old cycle ofpoverty by getting an 
education. Others were kicking habits so 
their kids could have easier lives than 
they did. Not any less striking were the 
rabidly Irish ND alumni who welcomed 
students into their homes in the city, the 
suburbs and even the Navajo reservation. 
Uving with the homeless wasn't always 
easy, but I wouldn't give up this past 
summer for anything. My experience of 
poverty could not be entirely genuine 
because I always had an out, a safe home 
and a good school that I could return to 
in a matter ofweeks, but I was able to 
see the gritty reality ofthe poor firsthand. ·And it gave me a pretty good conversa­
tion starter this Frosh-0 weekend. 
Contact Karen Langley at 
klangle 1 @nd. edu 

The views expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and not 
necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Aug. 26 Irish Insider, the article on page 7 titled "Zbikowski leads experienced secondary" stated Tom Zbikowski, Anthony Vernaglia, Terrail Lambert and Mike Richardson had solidified starting spots. This was incorrect, as no starters had been named as of Friday. The Observer regrets the error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH HARRY POTTER CHARACTER ARE YOU MOST LIKE AND WHY? 








Luther Yoo  James Mitchell  Claire VerHulst  Chris Wilkinson  Tony Piskurich  Dan Ott  
sophomore Dillon  freshman O'Neill  freshman Welsh Family  freshman Old College  freshman St. Edward's  sophomore Alumni  
"Harry Potter! He does magic!"  "Whatever's good for America and freedom."  "Hermione, because I'm the brains ofthe bunch and I do stuffbetter than ,the guys.  "Dumbledore, because I totally want the long hair and astronomy makes me ,happy  "Harry, because I love a challenge and I always stand by my friends."  "Hagrid, because I'm big. "  


CLAIRE KELLEYfThe Observer 

Carroll Hall students enjoy the South Bend sun Friday afternoon by creating a slip-and-slide outside their hall. 
OFFBEAT 

Amputee elephant fitted with temporary prosthesis 
LAMPANG, Thailand -A Thai elephant that attracted worldwide attention when its foot was amputated after it stepped on a land mine has been fitted with a temporary prosthesis, a wildlife conser­vation worker said Sunday. 
The 44-year-old female ele­phant, Motola, is expected to wear the lightweight, canvas shoe-like device for five to eight months until her leg is strong enough to carry a heavier, permanent one, said Soraida Salwala, founder of the Friends of the Asian Elephant hospital in northern Thailand. 
Motola was injured in 1999 while working at a logging camp near the border with neighboring Myanmar, a region peppered with land­mines after a half-century of insurgency. Her mangled, left front foot was subsequently amputated, and she has hob­bled on three feet since. 
Swazi princess whipped for loud music at party 
EZULWINI VALLEY, Swaziland -The king of Swaziland's daughter was whipped by a palace official at a party of teenage virgins ahead of a festival where more than 50,000 maidens are available to become her father's 13th wife, media said on Sunday. 
Princess Sikhanyiso, 17, told the Times of Swaziland a palace official whipped girls, including beauty queen Miss Swaziland, at the party as a punishment after they refused to turn down the music. She was pictured showing her bruises. 
Thousands of bare-breast­ed virgins will dance for Africa's last absolute monarch in Monday's Reed Dance ceremony, which King Mswati Ill has used to choose new brides. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 

A Mass with intentions for those affected by Hurricane Katrina will be held today at 
5:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. All are invited to attend and share in prayer, e!?pe­cially for the families and friends of current and former Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students affected by the tragedy. 
The International Welcome Back Picnic for international stu­dents, new and returning, will take place today from 5:30 p.m. to 7 on Holy Cross Field, across from the Grotto. 
Notre Dame's annual Activities Night will take place Tuesday from 7 p.m. to 9 in the JACC. All students are welcome to attend. 
Saint Mary's annual Activities Night will take place Wednesday in the Student Center. The event will run from 6 p.m. to 8 and all students are welcome to attend. 
ND Cinema will host the criti­cally acclaimed documentary "Murderball," about quad rugby Team USA's bid in the 2004 Paralympics, in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center's Browning Cinema Friday and Saturday nights at 7 
p.m. and 10. Tickets are $5 for faculty and staff and $3 for all students. 
An exhibit entitled Two Italian Hardhodies: Sports Cars Clad by Scaglietti and Frua will be on display in the Snite Museum of Art Entrance Atrium Gallery until Sept. 18. The exhibit fea­tures a 1958 Ferrari and a 1955 Maserati. Admission is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY a: 
LLI
::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...J 


~ ~ 
<C 
(,) 0 

HIGH 91 HIGH 65 HIGH 82 HIGH 78 HIGH 81 HIGH 79
...I LOW 83 LOW 63 LOW 62 LOW 58 LOW 57 LOW 55 
Atlanta 84 I 72 Boston 84 I 70 Chicago 84 I 66 Denver 86 I 56 Houston 103 I 81 Los Angeles 88 I 66 Minneapolis 78 165 New York 84 I 70 Philadelphia 85 I 67 Phoenix 114 I 94 Seattle 80 I 58 St. Louis 88 I 73 Tampa 90 I 78 Washington 95 I 72 
Monday, August 29, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC kicks off year -with Mass 
Packed Loretto celebrates new academic term, importance ofeducation 
By KATIE KOHLER 
Nt-ws Writt·r 

Saint Mary's students, facul­ty and starr kided off thn school ynar with high partiei­palion in an Opening Mass for tho 2005-O(J i\1:ad n rn ic Year Sunday afternoon in a l'ull to capacity Church ·of Loretto. 
Fathnr Konrwth Molinaro prnsidl'd ovnr tlw 1:eromony and was assisted by many Saint Mary's students through singing, roading, liturgical dancing and acting as l~xtraordinary Ministers of the J.:ucharisl. Both the Saint Mary's Womnn's Choir and the l.if.urgiral Choir sang and sev­eral students contributed to tlw music ministry through playing instrumonts and par­ticipating in the llandbell Choir. 
Molinaro wnlcomed the nntiro community to another academie ynar at Saint Mary's and blessed the Colloge, pray­ing for another successful s1·.hool yoar in all aspncts. 
Molinaro's homily -which rofnrPneod Sister Madeleva WoJfp's book "Conversations with Cassandra who lwlievns in nducation?" and the l'ormer Collnge president's i d I' as of t h ~~ importance of "nducating wonwn and trans­forming livos" -coincided with tlw spocial Votive Mass readings, which !'or the most part dealt with the lloly Spirit present among the students. lin said the Holy Spirit would transform the students into leaders. 
Father Molinaro also encouragod tho students to recognizn their faults in an attempt for a more complete sensn of snll'-knowledge. He coneluded by illustrating how tlw women of Saint Mary's 
and thnir ideals are transformed over the eourse of their time at the College, saying that students enter "with the ideas or girls, but leave with the ideas or women." 
College PresidHnt Carol Mooney also spoke near the conelusion of the liturgy, to give her opening remarks and 
"I think it is hard for us to relate to a 'spirit of truth,' as the Bible puts it, because it is abstract and gives no sense of the power ofGod. " 
Carol Mooney College president 
hopns for the sehool year. She, too, spoke about the readings and gave her thoughts on their significance for this year. 
Mooney said many of the . images of the lloly Spirit in the Bibl!l arH abstract, such as that or a "spirit of truth." 
"I think it is hard for us to rnlate to a 'spirit of truth,' as the Bible puts it, because it is abstract and gives no sense of the power of God,'' she said. 
Mooney went on to say her favorite image is that of the dove, which is painted on the ceiling of Loretto. She said the flying dove is spodal in that its presence can be seen, heard and even felt by people -when its heart beats, it emanates warmth and wind can be felt when a dove flaps its wings. 
Mooney also made Biblical references to fire and wind, 
calling them tan­gible, powerful images not as abstract as that of a "spirit of truth." She urged the congregation and students especially to rec­ognize that "the Spirit is always with us." 
Mooney began her closing remarks using excerpts of Gerard Manley Hopkins's poem 

"God's Grandeur," which makes references to nature and fire and fit perfectly with the many Holy Spirit references through­out the afternoon. Similarly to Molinaro, Mooney also ended by welcoming the students to another academic year -with hopes that it will be as success­ful as years past. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohlerO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
ND Anthropologist publishes new-book 
Richman focuses on 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dan11~ anthropolo­gist Karnn Hichman exam­ines the nature and eentrali­ty of religion for Haitian migrants to South Florida in a new book titled "Migration and Vodou," published by University Press of Florida as part of thn New World Diasporas series. 
Discrediting myths of exotie and primitive vodou long used against Haitians, "Migration and Vodou," which is aeeompanied by a compact disc, provides a rare excursion into the innovative ways a community of llaitian migrants to South Florida has maintained religious tradi­tions and famiLial connec­tions, including recording sacred songs and circulating them among communities. 
The first ethnography of the religion, ritual, and aes­thetic practices of a single, transnational llaitian society, the text and compact disc were produced in collabora­tion to give the readP.r inti-

migration and vodou 
mate accnss to llaitians' ingenious usns of <:assPttn tapns to extend tlw bound­aries of thnir rhetorical and ritual sp;u:ns. 
"Thn pnopln at thn cnntnr of' this book and 1:ompact disc arn a transnational <:ommuni­ty," Hichman said. "Ti Hivyn (Little Hivnr), a coastal ham­let in LP.ogann, llaiti. is tlwir moral and matnrial anchor, and although Ti Hivyn spans Haiti, thn Caribbnan, North America and Francn, its major outpost is Palm Bnarh County, Fla. This study explores both how migration has a!Teeted tho wligion and ritual practicn of this mobile, long-distance 1:ommunity, and how religion and ritual inlluencc tho oxpnrience of migration." 
Hichman. assistant profns­sor of anthropology and a faculty fellow in Notre Damn's Kellogg lnstitutn for International Studies and Institute for Latino Studios, specializes in I Jaitian society, language, religion, migration and polities. 


Write for News. ~.": €ca1l Heather at 1-5253. 



FOR 6DAYS ONLY/ 

Visit Us At: bayondtha1Nall_eom 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, August 29, 2005 




Transpo 
continued from page 1 
came to him with an acceptable proposal after discussion with Notre Dame student govern­ment, the Student Activities 
Office,  Notre  Dame  
Security/Police and Saint  
Mary's.  

"TRANSPO recognized an underserved population center at our campuses," Skendzel said. "They began asking the University and Saint Mary's what the transportation needs were for students, faculty and staff." 
Student body president Dave Baron said his involvement with the project began with students who were unsatisfied with South Bend transportation options. 
"We had received complaints about gouging taxi fares, incon­venience, lack of alternative means of transportation as compared to peer schools, and especially, safety," Baron said. 
So in fall 2004, student gov­ernment representatives went to the Board of Trustees with a presentation on off-campus safety recommending the SafeBus, a proposed late night bus service for students. The trustees reacted negatively to the idea. 
"When the University expressed their reluctance to the bus, we continued to explore other options," Baron said. 
In spring 2005, Baron and former student body president Adam Istvan met with McLain, and the TRANSPO talks began. Baron said he thinks the serv­ice will greatly benefit stu­dents. 
"I recognize that some [stu­dents] now are a bit weary to venture out with public trans­portation," Baron said. "I do believe that any reluctance to ride TRANSPO will dissipate quickly as more students ride the bus and witness how clean, safe and convenient it is." 

McLain, who said TRANSPO has been working on this plan for a while, was optimistic about the future of the new routes. 
"We are confident that this offering is going to be so popu­lar that [usage] will continue to grow," McLain said. 
An off-campus student him­self, Baron said he had already used the system to travel to and from campus for classes three times and on Friday nights. 
"Once you have the schedule in your hand, the system is easy to navigate," he said. 
Several Saint Mary's fresh­men were enthusiastic about the new service. 
Meghan Conaty, who used TRANSPO to go to Zahm Hall Saturday night, said she found the system efficient and appre­ciated not having to worry about getting a cab. 
Emily Cwidak-Kusbach, who used TRANSPO to get football tickets and to travel to Alumni Hall, agreed with Conaty about the convenience. 
"It is always there when you need it, it is free, and you never have to worry about needing a ride," Cwidak-Kusbach said. 
But she said the actual ride Saturday night was "claustro­phobic," noting the three-to-a­seat, standing room only crowd. 
The Sweep will operate year round from 7 a.m. until 10:30 
p.m. Monday through Friday with additional hours on Friday nights until 2:30 a.m., and Saturdays from 9 a.m. until 
2:30 a.m. Extended hours for Route #7 are until 2:30 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays. Neither The Sweep nor Route #7 runs Sundays. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

Changes 
continued from page 1 
Although the project involved the demolition of soccer fields on Edison previously used for parking on football weekends, the fields will be relocated for the fall football season, accord­ing to the University Architect's office. 
"Phase One is substantially complete, and that was the re­routing of Edison Road," said James Lyphout, Vice President for Business Operations. Landscaping and lights still need to be added, he said. 

Phase Two of 'The dry summer was mately $9.5 the campus road great for the million, project -which funded by
construction projects. 
will take the Ivy private gifts,
We were able to stay
Road replace­Lyphout ment all the way on schedule and on said. to Douglas Road Health
budget. We haven't
west of the Notre Services is
had any suprise costs." 
Dame Federal temporarily Credit Union -b e i n g will begin in the James Lyphout housed in next two weeks, the old
Vice President for
Lyphout said. campus

Business Operations
The University security 
The entrance was financed with University funds for the campus road project. 
Renovations also began this summer on the 47,591 square foot Health Services building on Holy Cross Drive next to Stanford Hall. Work will include demolition of interior walls, new windows and roof repairs, among other things, Lyhpout said. 
Work will "probably not be completed in time for the fall semester of 2006," Lyphout said, adding that the center should open following Christmas break of 2006. 
The renovation of the build­
ing will cost 
approxi­
hopes for the project to be completed by August 2006. 
The campus road project also includes the construction of a newly expanded and reconfigured campus entrance on Notre Dame Avenue, which was started in early June and is now open and usable. 
"The [entrance] construction work should be completed in about two weeks," Lyphout said. 



Found 
• continued from page 1 
"We served as a liaison to 

building near the D-6 parking lot, while the counseling center is tem­porarily located in the old post office. 
The Golden Dome is also shining brightly, thanks to $1.5 million worth of work this summer. The remaining paint­ing and construction should be finished by Sept. 9. It will take a week to repair landscaping, Lyphout said. 
"The dry summer was great 
some extent between the family and the [South Bend Police]," Storin said. 
The Observer was unable to reach Liu, whose mother reported him missing for the construction projects," Lyphout said. "We were able to stay on schedule and on budg­et. We haven't had any sur­prisl~ costs." 
Work continued over the summer on the Jordan Hall of Science, which will contain lab space for undergraduates as well as an observatory, a greenhouse and an herbarium. The project should be fmished by summer 2006. 
The Guglielmino Family Athletics Center is now open and occupied, though minor details are still being complet­ed. 
The Morris Inn also under­went a remodeling this sum­mer, Lyphout said. 
"We put a new roof and new windows and we remodeled all the rooms. It was completed in the last couple of weeks," he said. 
Work also continued on Dillon Hall, which began its makeover on March 3. 
"We did some remodeling there this summer," Lyphout said. "We replaced all the showers, bathrooms and win­dows." 
Alumni Hall underwent simi­lar updates during the summer of 2004, and Lyphout said there is a rotating system to determine which dorm will receive updates. 
"We have a rotation that we take care of those kinds of issues," he said. "Each sum­mer we'll take one or two [dorms] and make some sub­stantial improvements." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
Thursday morning. The sophomore lives alone off­campus, police said. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
Monday, August 29, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRI SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. senators held in Russian airport 
MOSCOW-;\ plano carrying two U.S. senators was detained for several hours Sunday while trying to leave Hussia, before !wing permitted to leave the country for Ukraine, according to spokesmen for thn lawmakers. 
Sons. Hichard Lugar, H-Ind., chairman of tlw Smmte lloreign Helations Committee, and Barack Obama, 1>-111., who had both been visiting storage sites for weapons of mass destruction, were lwld ·at an airport in the Ural Mountain rity of Perm for several hours, but werP allowed to leavo after talks lwtwnnn U.S. and Hussian ol"licials. 
"I am in Ukrairw with Sen. Lugar," Lugar's spokesman, Andy Fislwr, said in a messagn sent from a personal messaging dnviee Sunday al"lPrnoon. 
lin said Hussian of"fidals n~rused to let the plane take orr for three hours and insisted on boarding it. "Tiwy did not. Tho border patrol lir~.ally got ord(~rs to _let u~ go::' FislH;r said. 
We worn treated JUSt [me, he scud. 

Bomb destroys ferry in Philippines 
Mi\NII.i\-;\ bomb stashed in a pack of clothes nxplodPd on a ferry in tho southern l'hilippirws as it was loading passengers Sunday morning. injuring at least :w peo­piP, including nine children, military o[Ti­("ials said. Tlw region had been on alert for terror attacks. 
Tlw M.V. Dona Hamon a was doeked at the wharf at Larnitan. on thn island of Basilan, around 7:]0 a.m. local timn as it prnpared to depart for rwarby Zamboanga. At least six people were badly burnnd, including a soldier. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Protest outside Bush ranch heats up 
CHAWFOIW. Texas -Tho Hnv. AI Sharpton joirwd hundreds .of war protesters (:amping rwar President Bush's ranch for an interfaith service Sunday, saying he felt rornpnllod to nH~ol Cindy Sheohan, the griPving motlwr who started the rally three we(~ks earlier. 
Sheehan arrived in Bush's honwtown Aug. (J and refused to leave until shn could ques­tion t.lw president about tlw war that has killnd morn than 1,S70 U.S. service mem­bers. including hnr son Casey. 
"I fool that it is our moral obligation to stand and to bo couragoous with these fam­ilins. and particularly Cindy, that have lweonw the eonsdence of this nation," said Sharpton, an aetivist and former l>nmocratir prnsidential candidate. 
Sharpton and Sheehan laid roses at cross­es rwar "Camp Casey," named for Sheehan's 24-ynar-old son who was killed in Iraq last ynar. 

Wildfires force evacuations in Calif. 
1'1\I.M SI'HINCS, Cali!". -Erratic wind and high tnmpPraturns stoked a 2.:-HJO-aero wildlirn on Sunday, leading to tho voluntary evacuation of about I00 homos, ofl"ieials said. 
Tlw lirn was five percent contained, said Kathy Ungemaeh. spokeswoman for the San Bernardino National Forost. No stru<:­tun~s or homos won~ dostroyed by flames and then~ wnrr~ no injuries reported, she said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Deputies kill man during robbery 
INDIANAPOLIS -Marion County sherifl"'s deputies shot and killed a man early Saturday aftnr they interrupted a homo invasion, police said. 
Dnputies wont to a home on the eity's north­easLo.;idn about 130 a.m. alter a neighbor pass­ing tho home rnportnd a robbnry. As the ollieers arrived, they confronted a man tying up a woman on the noor and ordered him to stop, poliee said. 
Tlw man ran out the back door and another man pointed a gun at the oflicers, Sheriff's l>npartment Sgt. Michael Dehart said. 
... 

New-Orleans braces for storm's fury 
Katrina's winds reach 160 mph; evacuations result in massive traffic jams 
Associated Press 

NEW ORLEANS -A monstrous Hurricane Katrina barrelod toward New Orleans on Sunday with 160-mph wind and a throat of a 28-foot storm surge, forcing a mandatory evacuation of the below­sea-level eity and prayers for those who remained to face a doomsday scenario. 
"Have God ori' your side, definitely have God on your side," Nancy Noble said as she sat with hor puppy and throe friends in six lanes of one-way traffic on grid­loeknd Interstate 10. "It's very frightening." 
Katrina intensified into a Category 5 giant over tho warm water of the Gulf of Mexico, roaching top winds of 175 mph bnfore weaken­ing slightly on a path to hit Now Orleans around sun­rise Monday. That would make it the city's first direct hit in 40 years and the most powerful storm ever to slam the eity. 
Forecasters warned that Mississippi and Alabama were also in danger because Katrina was such a big storm. with hurri­cane-force winds extending up to 105 miles from the center. In addition to the winds, the storm paeked built structures will have that most of us have long i\smueh as 10 font below tho potential for a surge of tremendous damage. Of feared," he said. "This is a sea lnvel in spots, tho eity is 18 to 28 feet, 30-foot waves eourse, what we're really once-in-a-lil"etime event." as thn rnnrey of a network and as much as 15 inches worried about is the loss of As many as 100,000 of levnns, canals and of rain. lives. inner-eity residents didn't pumps to kenp dry. 
"The conditions have to "New Orleans· may never have the means to leave Seientists predidnd be absolutnly perfeet to be the same." and an untold numbnr of Katrina could easily over­have a hurricane beeome By evening, the first tourists were stranded by take that l(wen system, this strong," National squalls, driving rains and the dosing of tho airport, swamping the city under a llurricane Center Director lightning began hitting New so the eity arranged buses 30-feet cesspool of toxic Max Mayfield, noting that Orleans. A grim Mayor Hay to take people to 10 last­chemicals. human waste Katrina may yet be more Nagin earlier ordered the resort shelters, ineluding and oven col"lins that could powerful than the last mandatory (Wacuation for the Superdome. leave more than I million Category 5 storm, 1992's his eity of 485,000, eoncod­For years, forecasters people homolnss. llurrieane Andrew, whieh ing Katrina's storm surge have warned of tho night­"All indications an~ that at 165 mph leveled parts of pushing up the Mississippi mare flooding a big storm this is absolutnly worst­South Florida, killed 43 Hiver would swamp the eould bring to New ease sennario," lvor van people and caused $31 bil­city's system of levees, Orleans, a bowl-shaped dty llenrden, deputy dirm:tor of lion in damage. 11ooding the bowl-shaped bounded by the half-mile­the Louisiana State 
"It's capabln of eausing city and causing potentially wide Mississippi Hivor .and Univnrsity llurrieann catastrophic damage," months of misery. massive Lake Pontch­Center, said Sunday afl!~r­Mayfield said. "Even well-"We are faeing a storm artrain. noon. 
IRAQ 


Sunnis fail to endorse-completed constitution 

Associated Press 

BAGHDAD -Iraqi negotiators finished the new constitution Sunday and referred it to the vot­ers but without the endorsement of Sunni Arabs, a major setback for the U.S. strategy to lure Sunnis away from the insurgency and has­ten the day U.S. troops can go· home. 
The absence of Sunni Arab endorsement, arter more than two months of intensive negotiations, raised fears of morn violence and set the stage for a bitter political fight ahead of an Oet. 15 nation­wide referendum on the document. 
A politieal battle along religious and ethnie lines threatened to sharpen eommunal divisions at a time when relations among the Shiites, Sunni Arabs and Kurds 
appear to be worsening. 
Sunni negotiators delivered their rejeetion in a joint statement shortly after the draft was submit­ted to parliament. They branded the final version as "illegitimate" and asked the Arab League, the United Nations and "international organizations" to intervene against the document. 
Intervention is unlikely, however, and no further amendments to the draft are possible under the law, said a legal expert on the drafting committee, Hussein Addab. 
"I think if this constitution passes as it is, it will worsen everything in the country," said Saleh ai-Mutlaq, a Sunni negotiator. 
President Bush expressed disap­pointment that the Sunnis did not sign on but pinned his hopes on the referendum, saying it was a 
chanc£~ for Iraqis t.o "snt t.hn foun­dation fo;, a perrnannnt Iraqi gov­ernment. 
But tlw dnpth of disillusionment over the charter in the Sunni establishment nxtnnded beyond tho 15 negotiators, who worn appoint­ed to the constitutional eommittne in June under U.S. prnssure. 
The country's Sunni vice prnsi­dent, Ghazi ai-Yawnr, did not show up at a Sunday cnrnrnony marking completion of tho document. Wlwn President Jalal Talabani said that al-Yawer was ill, sonior govern­ment officials ineluding Deputy Primo Minister Ahmad Chalabi howled with laughter. 
"The constitution is loft to our people to approvn or reject it," said Talabani, a Kurd. "I hopo that our people will accept it despite some flaws." 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, August 29, 2005 

WNDU 
continued from page 1 
evision stations like WNDU in the past, University spokesman Matt Storin said. 
Jenkins said the University involved an out­side agency because such a sale should be handled by the experts. 
"We, in house, don't have that kind of expertise," he 
said. "We don't have the people that know that kind of business well; we don't have the people who can make the tough deci­sions in a kind of intelligent way." 
WNDU's 
President and General Manager Jim Behling declined to comment about the possible sale. 
"My job is to run and operate the station here," Behling said. "We've just been going along with business as usual. I don't really have anything to do with the sale." 
Notre Dame started WNDU in the 1950s, during a time when a number of other institutions took sim­ilar initiative. 
"It was kind of a fledg­
olso apPfllrlng Horoon 5 
Wqdntsday, August 31, ZOOS 
tomtrka Park • liomt of 1M DetroitTlgtn 
Free ticket for g..g Silver Hawks playoff game with everv bus trip purchase 

ling industry, and made sense for communication, and it's done just a tremendous job," Jenkins said. "It is the leading local station. They just do high quality work." 
Still, Jenkins said it is a complicated business and there are certain pressures that need to be addressed. 
"I think we'd be better served if we do our best at running the University and I think a company is going to buy WNDU that knows 
"Any educational benefit we got from it, we can still get from it, even ifwe don't own it ... so it's not an impediment to the education ofour students." 
Father John Jenkins University president 
this busi­ness and it's going to flour­i s h ' " Jenkins said. 
Jenkins said that the station is "better off" -as is the University -if it is owned by a group 

who knows the media busi­ness well. 
The University is not worried about students being able to learn from WNDU, as working there will still be an option. 
"Any educational benefit we got from it we can still get from it, even if we don't own it ... so it's not an impediment to the edu­cation of our students," Jenkins said. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
Quechua 
continued from page 1 
there is a benefit to the student to have teachers from all parts of the world." 
Cachey said his departmnnt is trying to promote the courses through posters displayed in O'Shaughnessy Hall. While some undergraduates did take Quechua in the spring, the only two students currently enrolled are frrst-year Ph.D. candidates in the new doctoral program in Latin American History, which is being offered by the history department. 
"We invite the undergraduate students to seriously consider [Quechua courses]." he said. 
Both the Quechua courses in particular and the new historical doctoral program in general were due to the influence of Sabine MacCormack, arl endowed professor with joint appointments in the history and classics departments. She said exposing students to an indige­nous language will afford them a more realistic understanding of the culture and history of Latin America. 
"We view Latin America as being populated by people who speak Spanish or Portuguese," MacCormack said. "In fact ... practically all Latin American countries have a signilicant pop­ulation that speaks an indige­nous language. Our students [taking Quechua will] have access to how these countries really are." 
MacCormack has conducted much of her academic work in Peru. Her connections with the Andean College in Cuzco -as well as her previous teaching at the University of Michigan, which offers Quechua -enabled MacCormack to start the lan­guage courses at Notre Dame. Inez Callalli will be teaching Quechua this academic year and currently lives with MacCormack. The previous teacher, Gina Maldonado, is residing in her native Cuzco and will return next school year. 
The language is currently being offered at the beginning and the intermediate levels, while next term will allow stu­dents to also take the course at 
the advanced level. MacCormack said the course is con­ducted primarily in Quechua, although Spanish is also used. 
"My hopes are that the Quechua program will real­ly thrive and become a regular part of the curricu­lum," she said. "Once we have a 
fully formed advanced class, people could be reading colonial texts which give access in histor­ical terms to an understanding of the complexity and many-faced cultural diversity of Latin American countries." 
MacCormack said the language courses connect with a number of programs, like the new doc­toral program in Latin American languages and literatures being offered by the department of romance languages and litera­tures and the Kellogg Institute's emphasis on the relationship between the democratic process and Latin America. 
In addition, a new study abroad program will be ofl'ered for the first time this summer in Cuzco. MacCormack says a knowledge of Quechua could be beneficial to students who would be encountering indigenous peo­ple in their day-to-day lives. Also, given student emphasis on community service, she believes students could volunteer either at archeological digs or through teaching English and computer courses to indigenous people who have been displaced from the countryside. 
"From the point of view of the 
student, practicing 
Quechua can be 

"My hopes are that very illuminating in other ways," she 
the Quechua 
said.· "It is helpful

program will thrive 
for us who come and become a from a rich coun­try to see what it
regular part ofthe 
[poverty] is really

curriculum. " 
like that 

although poor, Sabine MacCormack these people live 
useful and worth­

professor 
while lives." 
MacCormack also said that being exposed to an indigenous perspective can help college students realize the complexity of a concept like identity. 
"In Latin America, identities are constructed in many differ­ent ways from those that we take for granted," she said. "A pro­gram that helps draw attention to the polyphony of voices will help Notre Dame students locate themselves in the current and in the future." 
Contact Joe Trombello at jtrombell@nd.edu 



Tl-·IE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Monday, August 29, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,397.29 -53.34

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: I,898 206 • 1,590,339,430 

AMEX  1,617.36  -10.36  
NASDAQ  2,120.77  -13.60  
NYSf  7,379.86  -54.72  
s&PSOO  1,205.10  -7.27  
NIKKEI(Tokyo)  12,439.48  0.00  
FTSf IOO(London) 5,228.10  -27.60  

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ)  -0.33  -0.128  38.460  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -0.46  -0.08  17.40  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.20  -0.05  25.41  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.22  -0.06  26.97  
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI)  + 1.82  +0.12  6.70  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.37  +0.16  43.81  
I0-YEAR NOTE  +0.70  +0.29  41.89  
5-YEAR NOTE  + 1.14  +0.46  40.84  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.93  +0.32  34.67  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -1.36  66.13  
GOLD ($!Troy oz.)  -1.00  443.10  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  + 1.20  82.83  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  II 0.1950  
EURO  0.8138  
POUND  0.5555  
CANADIAN$  . 1.1998  

IN BRIEF 
Raycom Media buys Liberty Corp. 
MONTGOMEHY, Ala. -Haycom Media of Montgomery agreed Thursday to buy Liberty Corp. of (irnenvilln, S.C., in a $987 million deal lhal will boosl Haycom's holdings to 52 TV stations. 
Liberty operates 15 network affiliated sta­tions, including WFIE in Evansville, Ind., and Hayeom, an employee-owned eompany, oper­ates 37. The deal will give Haycom a highly rated station in its hometown, WSFA-TV. 
Hayeom President Paul MeTear said the agreonwnt "allows us to take an exciting and logkal next step into an exeeptionally attrac­tive group of markets." 
Hayeom agreed to pure\utse Liberty's stoek at $47.35 per share, making the deal worth $987 million. Haycom will keep its headquar­ters in Montgomery, McTear said. 
Hayne llipp, Liberty's CEO and chairman, sai.d Liberty's stations "will benefit from grnater seale and resources, which arc neces­sary to compete ell'ectively in today's increas­ingly competitive media market." 
Company officials said they expect to eom­pllte the transaetion by Dee. 31. 

Vioxx makers may settle lawsuits 
NEW YOHK-Merck & Co. might consider set­tling some lawsuits over its painkiller Vioxx, whose links to heart trouble have spawned thou­sands of lawsuil'i and a $253 million jury verdict, a spokesman for the company's legal team said Friday. 
The company has previously said it would light all personal-injury litigation over the drug's harmful sidl~ em~el'i. 
"Certainly we will make reasonable decisions about how to proceed in defending each one of those eases," spokesman Kent Jarrell told The Associatml Press, adding that Merck has "no intention of entering into any kind of global settle­mont." 
Merek's general counsel, Kenneth Frazier, told The Nnw York Times in Friday's editions that Morek would eonsidnr settling suits brought by pnopl1~ who took Vioxx li>r long periods of tim1~ and had few other risk factors lilr heart disease. 
Nnw .Jersny-b<L'ind Morek pulled Vioxx from the market nearly a year ago when a study showed it mulct double the risk of hP.art attaek or stroke if taken liu· 18 months or longer. 
IRAQ 



Iraqi cotnpany to repair key oil wells 
Westerners refused to undertake responsibility without extensive legal protection 
Associated Press  
BASH/\ -An Iraqi state­ 
owned company has been  
given the job of ropairing oil  
wells that sit on largH, lucra­ 
tive oil rnservns in the coun­ 
try's south ­a decision like­ 
ly to mean additional  
months of pumping delays  
for an industry already suf­ 
fering from sabotage and  
lost rnvnnues.  
The deeision by U.S.  
reconstruction oflidals eame  
after American and other  
Western companies - 
including giant oil-linld serv­ 
iens firm KBH Oil -balked  
at doing lhe work without  
strong legal protections, or  
indemnifications, guarantee­ 
ing they would not be  
blamed if things went  
wrong.  
Iraqi authoritios had  
promised such protections,  
according to American o!li­ 
eials, but eoneerns about the  
Iraqi government's stability  
prompted Western compa­ 
nies to unsuccessfully  
demand the same guaran­ 
tees from Washington.  
"Nobody is probably going  
to take on that type of liabili­ 
ty-at least no U.S. compa­ 
ny," said Don Lassus, an olli­ 
eial with WorleyParsons, an  
energy services firm that  
declined the work. An Iraqi man operates valves at an oil field in Rumailah, near the southern city of Basra,  
U.S. ort1cials announced Sunday. An Iraqi company was given the project of repairing crucial oil wells.  
the decision to use the Iraqi  
Southern Oil Co. alter sever­ project could take months  the south could increase by  case wells were damaged  
al inqumes by The  longer at a time when delays  as much as 500,000 barrds  during tho drilling proenss.  
Associated Press. American  already come at a high  a .day once the project is  "The feeling is that with  
officials now are training  price. With the price of oil  complete, according to the  conditions being wlalively  
employees and buying them  topping $60 a barrel, the  U.S. reconstruction agency.  unstable, nobody lilels mm­ 
equipment, according to  Iraqi government is losing  The number of wells to be  fortabln with the notion that  
Friday's statement by the  hundreds of millions of dol­ mpaired has not boon dis­ they'd bn indmnnilind by the  
Project and Contracting  lars in potential revenue  closed.  Iraqi Southern Oil Co.,"  
Ofikc, a U.S. reconstruction  from the dilapidated wells.  The contract to repair  Lassus said.  
agency. The contract is for  The wells deteriorated  wells was originally award­ KBH said it required guar­ 
$37 million.  during Saddam llussein 's  ed to KBH Oil, a subsidiary  antees li'IHn the U.S. govnrn­ 
The training likely will  rule, when international  of Halliburton. But tho  rnnnt because its eontraet  
cause delays, whereas a  sanctions barred leading  agreement was canceled  was with Amerkan authori­ 
Western firm alnmdy would  Western companies from  when the oil giant and other  ties, who are funding the  
have the needed expertise.  working with the Iraqi gov­ eompanios insisted on linan­ project, and not with Iraqi  
That means the reassigned  ernment. Oil production in  eial protections upfront, in  authoritios.  

NIGERIA 

African oil accompanied by corruption, violence 
Associated Press Often, oil money is a driving force in oil prices, drawing strike threats from 
heating long-standing political rival­labor unions. Most Nigerians see 
BUGUMA -The capital of the ries to the boiling point. cheap fuel as the only benefit they ancient Kalahari kingdom is vivid tes­Buguma's unrest is at least partly ever got in a country with no welfare timony to the downside of Africa's oil. over royalties that Arnachree says arc system and where more than 70 per­
A gutted loeal government building paid to King Theophilus Prineewill by cent of the pnople live on loss than $1 stands by the central square, near a Shell, the major oil producer in a day. smashed statue of the town's founding Kalahari. Four rival militias, one call­Nigeria is the world's seventh­king. Soldiers patrol the streets. ing itself "the Germans," another "the biggest oil producnr, exporting rwarly 
These are scars from a three-month Italians," have fought over who should half of the 2.4 million barrels it pumps occupation last year by a private mili­be king and therefore get the royal­every day to the Unitnd States. Africa's tia accused of rapes and random ties. biggest oil power. home to more than killings, and dozens of villages in the In London, Shell spokesman Simon 250 ethnic groups, is only onn exam­oil-rich Niger River delta have suf­Buerk said the eompany has never ple of how oil can he a curse on the fered similar violence. paid royalties to local potentates, but continent. 
"We are in a state of emergency," "homage payments" are allowed -Thn development group Catholic said the head of Buguma's Council of limited to $1,000 per project since Belief Serviens and a World Bank Chiefs, 62-year-old Mangibo 2003. A Shell report said it spent watehdog oflk1~ said in a report on Amaehree. Soldiers are keeping the $100,000 on such payments last year Chad, which began exporting oil last peace for now, and Amachree prays in Nigeria. year, thal adding oil to repressive, they will stay until the 2007 presiden­President Olusegun Obasanjo also corrupt and poor countries too often tial election, which already is raising has angered Nigerians by approving results in simply morn repression and fears of more fighting. fuel price hikes to rnflect high global corruption. 

page 8 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Monday, August 29, 2005 

MTV Video Music Aw-ards roll out white carpet in Miami 
Rock bands Green Day, Fall Out Boy, The Killers win moonmen; rap mogul Suge Knight shot at pre-party 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -MTV dodged two major disasters -one from nature, the other from the barrel of a gun -as the Video Music Awards unfolded 
Sunday night with flashy per­formances, over-the-top bling and a few blasts from the past. 
The annual bash was brief1y overshadowed by Hurricane Katrina, which hit southern Florida on Thursday and killed several people. As the storm passed, a celebratory mood took over the city ­until early Sunday morning, when rap mogul Suge Knight was targeted by gunfire at a Kanye West party. 
MTV vowed that neither event would affect the cere­monies-and they didn't. 
"The theme of tonight is, anything can happen," pro­claimed host Diddy, whose entrance included dancers, pyrotechnics and a cascading waterfall -a spectacle that rivaled the show's actual per­formances. 
Ludacris man­

aged to turn his 
hedonistic "The theme of tonight plicable "Pim pin' All Over moment
is, anything can 

the World" into a may have
happen."

multicultural come from Mardi Gras-like R. Kelly, extravaganza, Diddy w h 0 complete with re.mains a
Entertainer 

steel drummers, African dancers and, of course, around-the-way booty-shak­ing girls. 
When it comes to booty shaking, Luke of 2 Live Crew fame is the king with his infa­mous dancers, and he brought a bevy of women a dance with Diddy and H&B heartthrob Omarion. 
But one of the biggest sur­prises was a performance from MC Hammer, recaptur­ing some of his glory while shaking to his '90s hit, "U Can't Touch This." 
Another 11ashback moment came in a tribute to Diddy's protege, the late Notorious B.I.G., that featured Diddy "conducting" a string orches­tra as the legendary rapper's songs played. Snoop Dogg came out at the end and deliv­ered a verse on the B.I.G. hit "Warning." 
West and Kelly Clarkson were amt:mg the early win­ners. Clarkson won for best female video for "Since U Been Gone," while West won for "Jesus Walks." 
"I guess they're saying, 'We're going to give him his award early so we don't have to worry about nothin'," said West, referencing his infa­mous American Music Awards tantrum last year. 
Green Day, who arrived in the vintage green convertible from their "Boulevard of Broken Dreams" video, won best rock video for the clip ­one of the eight awards they were nominated for, making them the most nominated act of the year. 
"It's great to know that rock music ·still has a place at MTV," said lead singer Billie Joe Armstrong, speaking of hip-hop's recent takeover. 
T h e 
evening's 
most inex­
chart-topper 
even though 
he's await­ing trial on child pornography charges. 
On a bedroom set that looked like a scene from a Tyler Perry play, Kelly delib­erately lip-synced highlights of his five-part soap opera infidelity song, "Trapped In The Closet," then debuted a new chapter involving a cheating wife, a cheating hus­band and his boyfriend. 
Some of the night's more decadent moments came dur­ing the pre-show arrivals. Lil Jon came by sea, on what looked to be a three-story, pimp-my-yacht contraption. The prison-bound Lil' Kim arrived on the white carpet in 
a Rolls Royce Phantom, though she looked somewhat demure in her low-cut mauve dress -no pasties or dan­gling appendages this year from the diminutive rapper. 
"I might show some leg," teased the star, who is due to start serving a year-and-a-day sentence in September on a perjury charge. When MTV personality Sway delicately asked if she had anything to say to fans who "might not see you for a while," Lil Kim said: "You can write me let­ters." 
"Entourage" star Jeremy Piven couldn't help but tease her about her upcoming bid as they presented best rap video, which was won by Ludacris. 
"You know, she's about to go to the big house, for lying," he said of Lil Kim. "I'd like to place a call to the warden and upgrade your situation." 
The much-hyped white car­pet was one of one of the Diddy-designed elements of the show. Another was the "Diddy Fashion Challenge" ­in which he vowed to give away $50,000 each to the charities of the best dressed female and male at the event. Amerie, Gwen Stefani and Eva Longoria were the three female finalists; Usher, West and a pimped-out Snoop Dogg were the male finalists. Diddy himself was out of the run­ning, though you wouldn't know it -he made three wardrobe changes in the first half-hour. 
The awards typically snow­ball into a weeklong party with decadent A-list bashes, but Hurricane Katrina forced the cancellation of some events. Several stars, like West, were late arriving to Miami because of the weather. 
Knight, the Death Row Records founder who has been at the center of some of hip-hop's most violent moments, was shot in the leg early Sunday morning at a star-studded party thrown by West. His injuries were not life-threatening; no arrests were made. 



Have news? Want to write news? Call Heather at 1-5323. 


Monday, August 29, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Man fooled in S.I.U. student paper hoax 
Associated Press 
CAHBONDALE, Ill. -Patrick Trovillion got a military-style haircut. was outfitted in f'atiguns, and studied a script detailing the character he was to play in what he thought was a documentary about a father torn away from his young daughter by his deployment in 
Iraq. 
But Trovillion says his acting paled in comparison to that of the woman he says tricked him into thinking he was starring in a Jilm. Instead, it was part of an bizarre hoax that hood­winked the Southern Illinois University student newspaper and its readers with heartronding stories of a moth­erless 8-ycar-old girl's anguish at seeing her dad go to war. 
The Daily Egyptian for more than a year published letters from little "Kodee Kennings." The paper issued a complete retraction and apology on Friday after investigations by thn Egyptian and the Chicago Tribune determined that a Sgt. Dan Kennings with the Army's 101 st Airborne didn't exist. 
Trovillion said he was tricked into acting as the girl's father by .Jaimie Heynolds, a 2004 SIU graduate who is now accused of concocting the ruse. He said Heynolds told him he was appearing in a legitimate movie. 
Both Trovillion and Caitlin Hadley, a 10-year-old from Montpelier, Ind., who played Kodee, said Heynolds tricked them into believing they were being taped by hidden cam­eras. 
''I'd sure like to know the motive behind all of this and know why this entire story was concocted," Trovillion told the [Carbondale] Southern Illinoisan. "In the end, I was scammed. IHeynolds] is a con artist." 
The Jackson County state's attorney's office did not return messages· Saturday asking whether the hoax could result in criminal charges. 
Heynolds admitted the hoax. to the Tribune this week, say­ing she conspired with Daily Egyptian reporter Michael Brenner to help his career ­something he denies. 
"If I was lying I would have had to lie to pretty much every single relative I have for two years. I just can't do that," Brenner said Saturday. 
Heynolds could not be reached for comment Saturday; a public phone list­ing for her Marion home could not be found. 
Trovillion, a registered nurse from Vienna, said Reynolds paid him $100 to meet with Daily Egyptian staff members and $400 to make an overnight trip to Detroit, where he spoke to members of a Baptist church. 
"I mean, these people were hugging me and telling me they loved me and I just went along with it. I thought they were just playing the part," Trovillion said of the church visit. 
The girl's mother, Tawnya Hadley, told the Southern Illinoisan that she was close friends with Reynolds and thought her daughter was tak­ing part in a legitimate TV project. 


Colleges deal with pushy parents 
Institutions attempt to handle 'hyper-involved' moms and dads 
Associated Press 
HAMILTON, N.Y. -They're called "helicopter parents," for their habit of hovering -hyper­involved -over their children's lives. Here at Colgate University, as elsewhere, they have become increasingly bold in recent years, ~elephoning administra­tors to complain about their chil­dren's housing assignments, roommates and grades. 
Recently, one parent demand­ed to know what Colgate planned to do about the sub-par plumbing her daughter encoun­tered on a study-abroad trip to China. 
"That's just part of how this generation has been raised," said Mark Thompson, head of Colgate's counseling services. "You add a $40,000 price tag for a school like Colgate, and you have high expectations for what you get." 
For years, officials here responded to such calls by biting their lips and making an effort to keep parents happy. 
But at freshman orientation here last week, parents heard a different message: Colgate is making educating students a higher priority than customer service. The liberal arts college of 2,750 students has concluded helicopter parenting has gotten out of hand, undermining the out-of-the-classroom lessons on problem-solving, seeking help and compromise that should be part of a college education. 
Those lessons can't be learned if the response to every difficulty is a call to morn and dad for help. 
"We noticed what everybody else noticed. We have a genera­tion of parents that are heavily involved in their students lives and it causes all sorts of prob­lems," said Dean of the College Adam Weinberg. College, he said, should be "a time when you go from living in someone else's house to becoming a func­tioning, autonomous person." 

Colgate says it has ample resources to help students. But when parents call, unless there's a safety risk, they're usually told to encourage their children to seek out those resource~> them­selves. 
As for the China inquiry, Weinberg said, "we tried to explain in the 21st century, the ability to plop down in a foreign country and hit the ground run­ning is a fundamental skill." 
Heightened parental 
The era ol'the 1 0-minute weekly cheek-in from the pay phone in the hall has given way to nearly constant contact. Hob Sobelman, a Colgate sophomore, says when students walk out of a tnst, many dial home immediately to report how it went. One friHnd chocks in with her motlwr evory night before going to sleep, he said. 
"Even 10 years ago, parents couldn't even get hold of their children,'' said Colgate President Rebecca Chopp. "If' you reached them once a week it was a mira­cle." Now she says she's hearing from older alumni who are "worried their grandchildren won't learn accountability and responsibility." 
Many schools have noticed the 
trend, but they've 
been reluctant to 

involvement is "Even 1 o years ago, alienate parents. 
one of the parents couldn •t even Some have tried biggest to accommodate
get hold of their
changes on the change, open­college cam­children. If you ing parental liai­puses in the reached them once a son offices, for 
last decade, 
week it was a miracle." instance. 
experts say. But some One major schools, while reason is the Rebecca Chopp glad to sec par­tight bond president ents care, are between Baby expressing con­
Colgate College 
Boomer par­ents and their children. 
"This is a group of parents who have been more involved in their children's development since in utero on than any gen­eration in American history," said Helen E. Johnson, author of "Don't Tell Me What To Do, Just Send Money,'' a guide for college parents. "I think colleges have been far too responsive in inap­propriate ways to this very savvy group of consumers." 
Another factor is cell phones. 
cern over the 

downside. During freshman orientation this year at Northeastern University in Boston, administrators urged parents not to call their children but to Jet them call home when they want to talk. At Washington University in St. Louis, upper­classmen perform skits about healthy transitioning for par­ents. The University of Vermont hires students as "parent bounc­ers" to delicately keep parents from interfering in, for instance, meetings with advisers. 





Sign up for the SBC Student Plan SBC Yahoo! DSL Express + Your local Access line 
as low as 
$ 
75* 
a month for a g-month term! 
•other monthly clwrges apply. 
rdiiJ~\~ 
~rlu,. l l 
... .-... 


Taxes, other charges and the Federal Universal Service Fund cost-recovery fee extra. For details of additional charges, restrictions and requirements, call1-866-472-7965 toll-free or visit sbc.com/u. SBC, the SBC logo and other SBC product names are trademarks and/or service marks of SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. and/or its affiliates. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. ©2005 SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. All rights reserved. IN 
--~~--------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 
Monday, August 29, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Tbt bukpmdnll, Daily N~Wspaper Serving NtlhY Dame and Saint Mary's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds A~ST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CONTROLLER Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574} 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Marys 
College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. C.ommentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact infom1ation. 
Questiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599.2-4000) l$ published Mond;~.y through FrJday ~t:<:!!pt during exam and vaoadon periods. Asu~cri,ption w:Tht Ohsttrvcr is $100 f():r.,ne academic year~ $55 for cme ,'1¢mesrcr. 
TI1c Observer is publi5hed a1: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining H:lll Send addres5 Cortt:(;'(iom t-o: Notre Dam<:, IN 46556..0779 The Obsctvc:r l'criodk.al postag.; paid .It N<>tre D!lnle P.O.&)!: 779 and additiunil! miUHng offices. 024 Sourb Dining HaU 
Norrc Dame, IN 46556-0779 

Tht Oh.'>Crvcr is .1 memher ofthe Associated Pr~. All reproduction rightS:M<: 
·==~· 
TODAY'S STAFF 
I suppose it is a sign of the times that one of the most popular teen tele­vision shows of the past year ­"Laguna Beach" -is about real peo­ple who act fake in a real setting while using a fake script to present a real glimpse at the fake lifestyles of the supposedly real residents of Orange County, Calif. 
With this utterly confusing layering of reality blurring every action taken on the show, you would think that viewers would have a hard time connecting with the characters as they cheat, lie, manipulate and drink their way through high school in this ultra­hip, ultra-rich Pacific coast suburb. On the contrary, though, our society has grown so detached from the restraints of reality that a layered television show like "Laguna Beach" seems to fit right in with our own perceptions of what really is and what isn't in this crazy world of ours. 
In other words, we all have a basic understanding of certain truths about today's reality, although we act as if our lives are somehow layered and detached from these truths -as if we're all real characters acting out fake lives on television. 
Take the recent gas-price crisis, for example. We've all watched the num­bers advertised outside of local gas stations soar to somewhere in the $2.65 range, and we all take pride in cursing the gas pump as we squeeze out a few extra drops to fill the tank of our SUVs at an even $50. We even curse our excessively large cars for getting terrible gas mileage and we 


Reality bites 
curse the president for getting us into 
an oil-acquisition war that has some­
how only sent oil prices skyrocketing. 
At the same time, we've all heard 
rumors that the global oil supply could 
be dwindling, and with the unstable 
political climates in oil-rich countries 
like Saudi Arabia, Iran and Venezuela, 
we could be the helpless victim of a 
colluded oil shock at any moment. 
But here, in a locale faker than the set of "Laguna Beach," real-life crises like oil shortages and skyrocketing gas prices don't affect us. We just keep on driving our gas-guzzling cars as we always have (don't even think about making me give up my Jeep Grand Cherokee), because these so-called real problems can't possibly get through to our disconnected layer of reality. We're untouchable characters behind the safety of a glass television screen, and it will have to be up to the rest of the world to cut back on oil so that our children's children's children will still be able to drive their Cadmac Escalades on cross-country road trips. 
And then there's Iraq. Did you hear that the U.S. death total there is approaching the enrollment of Notre Dame's freshman class? Not that it really matters, of course, because the reality of that distant war is several layers away from the day-to-day reali­ty of our worry-free lives. Sure, we've all heard about the enraged mother who camped out in front of President Bush's ranch in Crawford in protest of her son's death, but was that real either? What '60s hippie movie does this woman think she's in if she believes that protesting is going to get her anywhere in the reality of today's detached society? After all, if a presi­dent can escape the war that he got himself into by chopping wood and "clearing brush" in Texas, then why should we have to ruin our peaceful reality by concerning ourselves with events that one day we'll just be able to watch in two hours after Steven Spielberg makes a movie about them? 
We are, of course, living in the most detached example of reality in all of American society: college. Anywhere else in the world, getting drunk six nights a week would make you a rag­ing alcoholic; hooking up with three guys a week would earn you the repu­tation of a prostitute; waking up at noon every day would earn you a spot in the unemployment line; and staying up until four in the morning every night would leave you with the lifestyle of a raecoon. This isn't "real" life. Why else do you think we pay $40,000 a year to have the chance to take part in it? (It's not like we're actually paying $120 for a dining hall chicken breast and $5,000 for a grad student to lecture us on Spanish gram­mar.) The majority of that tuition money essentially goes directly to dis­tancing us as much as possible from the constraints of reality-from for­eign wars and oil crises to domestic political struggles and employment concerns. 
And perhaps that explains why we can relate so well to the fake lifestyles of real people acting out a fake script in a real setting on "Laguna Beach" ­we are just as detached from reality as the characters on that show. 
Or else we're just huge perverts who get off on observing the sex lives of high school students, but that's an entirely different story. 
Joey Falco is a junior American Studies major who hopes the Irish rips into his home state ofPennsylvania this Saturday. His column appears every other Monday. He can be con­tacted at jfalco@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE Of' THE DAY

Nicole Zook Mike Gilloon Kelly Meehan Ken Fowler Megan O'Neil Anna Fricano What will the Notre Dame 

:Submit aLetter.
Viewpoint Scene 

~ t. h. ,.E.. d·,... ,.. _,.. -" 
football team's regular 

"Whenever l get the urge to exercise, l lie 
Sarah Falvey Molly Griffin 

down until the feeling passes away." 
season record be? 
Graphics 

t 'OLe Lutor at 1 
Mark Twain Author 

Graham Ebetsch 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 

~~ www ndsmcobserver com I
':ihl • ' . . . : : .. ,. . • ~: 
···:: ··=:::~~::n::~::::w~::::::::w~;:::r.:':-1~::·;i?=:::t:¥:t%B.M-h1·:/L~ ........:::.;00f::~Mw:::r~n-r;:r:r:;tr:Mrr· 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Monday, Augmt 29, 2005 page I I 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Frosh-0 needs tweaking 

I road Tho Obsorvnr's Friday Hditorial schedule allotted no further contact "Stqwrfkiality: Frosh O's real flaw" and with our daughter at her dorm.Even tho agrnnd that ~hangns arH nnnded. Alumni Legacy Reception on Saturday 
As a Frosh-0 mom, I loft campus with could not be attended as the dorm had a (wavier heart than antieipated thanks "mandatory" events. to Frosh-0. I hopH the University does The event that put me totally over the "tweak" the WHnkend. edge was Sunday's Mass. I was looking 
Wo are not now to Notre Dame so we forward to a peaceful mass after which know the routine, the traditions and the I could say my final goodbyes. The final layout. I understand the reasoning of event found us segregated from our Frosh-0 and Notre Dame always does daughter once again. l-Iard to say events with great thought and organiza­"peace be with you" to a stranger when tion ... so I was sadly surprised that I wanted to turn to my daughter and say Frosh-0 incorporated' zero time outside good luck sweetheart and have fun. So of orientation meetings for parents to with only a short walk back to the car, I say goodbye to their children. said a sad goodbye to my daughter-a 
For me, living 2000 miles away, it was goodbye that could have been a happy my only time on campus this year­one but was destroyed by the final blow most of whieh was spent with my hus­of Frosh-0 Sunday Mass. band and none with my daughter. So I think the Frosh-0 experience Frosh-0 incorporated about a total of does need "tweaking." four hours for move-in. From that point on, my coli rang with lists of wants from Jean Palumbo Targnt and Mnijor with no way to even parent drop ofT tho purchases since the dorm Aug. 26 
Notre Dame steps do have tradition 
A week ago, I took my son back t<i to Notre Dame. I oxplairwd that I Notre Dame for his sophomore year. walked "tho stops" f'or tho first time I read Pat Leonard's Viewpoint. col­wlwn I graduated in 1972. Tlwy umn ("Maturity will come, but it can bought into tho idoa. For mo. and I wait," Aug. 20). I feel he misrepre­think for them, one of' the high sented the Main Building "steps" points of their graduation weekend, story. It is not a "silly legend" or was walking "the stops" f'or the first "stupid superstition." It is a tradi­time. As we stood in line, bof'ore the tion. Main Building, watching the gradu­
I believe its history dates back to ates there, taking their turn to walk the early years of Notre Dame when up and down, we witnessed in oaeh students lived in the Main Building an ineffable oxeitement, or perhaps and entered and exited on the mlief, as they walked those steps. ground floor. They were "allowed" to Notre Dame has many traditions. walk the "main steps" only at gradu­For those students who would por­ation. Thus, a tradition was born. haps likP to be part of' one of tho 
Traditions sometimes don't make srnallor traditions, I would suggest sense, but typically are good and not to "walk the steps," uniil gradu­provide the "mortar between tho aticm day. bricks" of Jil'e. But some traditions do become debatable. Jim Rycyna 
I mentioned the "steps" tradition alumnus to my older .children when they carne Aug. 25 
U-WIRE 
All-hours programs cater to the depraved 
Some people would say I am a defeatist, but there arn times in life when the obvi­ous becomes too obvious, when coinci­dences beeonw morn than what they seem to be, and patterns develop thnmselves into acceptable habits. 
Justin

Theso arn the types of 
Williams

things I see every­where, but most impor­
Daily News 

tantly, I see those things 
Ball State 

with the mndia covcr­
University 

agn wo receive from 
all-hour-of-the-day­
and-or-night news broadcasts. 
Wh1~ther you get your news from MSN, MSNBC, ABC; CBS or FOX NEWS, the broadcasts all appnar eerily similar. Call me a conspiracy theorist if you like, but it 
• just snems too strango. Every day-or, for some, every hour­we get the latost news about the worst crimes committnd, get our update on ter­ror levels or witness the latest disaster live, and so on. 
Now, I know by sheer statistical proba­bility, thorn must be news out there that doesn't involve deplorable <:rimes-and I suppose that maybe my appetite for the underbelly of society is limited, but I'm sure there are people who feel the same way. 
So what about the people who like their news gruesome? At what point in the evo­lution of the human mind did it become an enjoyable sight or concept to learn of oth­ers' suffering? In my mind, this phenome­non signals a serious rift in acceptable behavior. 
I happen to remember hearing warnings from counselors in state-funded schools­as well as many other sources while I was growing up-about the ways to recognize a troubled classmate or sibling: Can any­one else remember them? They asked us to look for the type of children who took pleasure in the suffering of animals or other creatures, and they asked us to report the bullying of other school kids to parenl<;, toachers or school officials. 
So, how is our behavior now any difl'er­ent from those children we were told to keep at a distance? When did we become that troubled child? 
Well, let's do what we do best and not put all the blame on ourselves. We did have some help along the way. From the very beginning, we have been receiving violent programming-preparing our minds for the reality of life. Then again, that isn't really reality, is it? But we believed it anyway, and we became what we are today. 

Let's also not forget the omnipotent media giants, of course, who know exactly what we want. Multi-national corporations like GE and AOL Time Warner, who control large portions of the media, and are able to fr.lter in or out the news they deem newsworthy. So, the problem isn't really us. It's just that we've become so accus­tomed to this type of news coverage that it wourd be hard to change. 
It's the equivalent to handing a child a bag of skittles, letting him or her taste a few, then promptly removing the bag and replacing it with a piece of broccoli. While some children would deal with having to eat the broccoli, the majority would rather have the skittles. So, if it's possible to change, why don't we? 
We don't change because bad news is profitable throughout the rest of the world, due to the faet that the majority of' devol­oping and third-world nations have no capacity to produce their own news. but they have the ability to distribute news coverage imported from the United States as well as other programming, via eable or satellite feeds. 
So, where do we go from here? 
Well, there isn't a lot that ean be done, really, unless you ean convince the media giants to stop selling a product that sells ­and sells really well. You can, however, keep that television off and read a newspa­per or use the Internet, but of thesn options are just as susceptible to similar pitfalls. 
Still, if enough people stopped watching these broadcasts, maybe tho media giants would get the picture. 
This article originally appeared on Aug. 
25. 2005 in The Daily News, the daily pub­lication at Ball .<,'tate University. 
The oiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Obsenwr. 
Our eountry has been involved, for the majority of the past 100 years, in wars that eoneern other countries more than our own. It is not a new theme that sol­dinrs are dying' for the sake of democra­
cy and f'ren~om over-Tyler Wittman s1ms. One of the more important details about tho United Rocky States military is that Mountain it is, and has bonn for Collegian quitn somn time, a vol­Colorado State untner force. The lfniverisy exception to this is obviously the draft, which our last presi­dent successfully avoided. The majority of these voluntners support their coun­try and are enthusiastic about their job. When a soldier dies. in war or in peace, they arn to be honored for their service and dedication to demoeraey. Thnir service and sacrifice are not to he used as political weight by any group, nor are their deaths something to be trivialized. Unfortunately, this is 
Shame on Sheehan 
exactly what is happening in Crawford, Texas. 
Cindy Sheehan, for those of you who are not aware, has been the central !ig­ure in a protest this month in front of President Bush's Crawford ranch. She had the unfortunate experience of bury­ing her own son, Casey Sheehan, who was serving in Iraq. Because of this, she has lined the road to Bush's ranch with crosses bearing the names of those who have died in Iraq, as if the president is somehow unaware that we have lost around 1,800 troops since March 2003. 
Let me say that no parent should ever have to bury their child and my condo­lences go out to anyone who has lost someone in this war. Such an experi­ence does·not entitle anyone to the hor­rendous and tasteless tactics that Sheehan has spearheaded lately. 
I fully support her right to protest, it's the real message behind this particular campaign by Sheehan and others that disturbs me the most. She is exploiting the death of her own son to further her own political agenda. Is there a more disgraceful way to dishonor a soldier's sacrifice than to say it was all for noth­ing? Let's not split hairs, this is what her campaign boils down to. Why else would she include her son and other soldiers' deaths into her main appeals? 

While we're at it, what exactly does losing a son in Iraq do for your argu­ment? Ms. Sheehan, you have my sym­pathy but nothing more. There are par­ents who have lost children in Iraq and still support the effort. I guess that can­cels out Sheehan's argument. If losing a child in Iraq suddenly gives you some unprecedented ethos and expertise in foreign policy, then we're going to have lines of "experts" outside the Oval office. It doesn't make you an expert though and it doesn't give you anything more than an emotional appeal that may work on some, but don't count me in. 
If Michael Moore wants to hail this woman as a hero and help her get her 
I' 

15 minutes of fame, then morn power to him and his supporters. If Cindy Sheehan wants to disgrace thn service of Army Specialist Casey A. Sheehan, who died in combat on April 4, 2004, then that is her prerogative. 
I simply don't understand how a mother could do such a thing to her !irst born. There are better ways of dealing with grief. Ms. Sheehan. You aro not the !irst, nor will you be the last, to lose a loved one in Iraq. It is an inescapable fact of war that pnoplo die. Let us honor the soldiers who serve or havn served and let us pray that Cindy Sheehan doesn't tarnish the good name of her son. 
This article originally appeared on Aug. 26, 2005 in Rocky Mountain Collegian, the daily publication at Colorado State Unioersity. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
-----------~--­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE

page 12 Monday, August 29, 2005 
CONCERT REVIEW 
The Show 2005 
Akon, Cake fail to impress the Notre Dame crowd 

By BOB COSTA Scene Writer 

Although The Show is billed as Notre Dame's biggest concert of the year, it seemed merely like an extension of Frosh-0 activities. Veteran alternative­rockers Veteran rockers Cake and newly debuted rapper Akon played to a crowd of about 2,500 students at the Joyce Center. Under the watchful eyes of numerous overzealous Notre Dame security guards, the performances were at times awkward and interrupted. 
Akon's biggest moments came when he sampled Outkast's "Ms. Jackson" and performed his single "Lonely," which is well-known for its background chorus sung by what seems to ·be Alvin and the Chipmunks. Even though The Show 2005 was Akon 's first time to campus, he still found time to make some astute observations about campus culture. 
For his song "Bananza (Belly Dancer)," Akon decided to "give the guys what they want" when he brought up five girls on stage to do their best belly dances in front of their peers. It was a nervous moment for all five involved. Akon seemed to enjoy the fact that he was able to get five college girls to grind in the background of his track, continuously making catcalls and snide sang of "A faintly glimmering radio sta­

tion/While Frank Sinatra sings Stormy Weather," he was able to evoke emotions of both 

remarks to his back­longing and regret.
The Show

ing band and OJ. Cake, which features Unfortunately, for 2005 everything from bouncing 
many of the true rap rhythms to
Artists: Da Natural, Akon 

fans in attendance, mariachi
and Cake

Akon spent much of trumpet,
Date: Friday, Aug. 26

his hour-long set not Venue:JACC
performing. Instead he wasted time talk­ing to the crowd about inane subjects that made some wonder whether he was just phoning in his Notre Dame gig. 
Cake, who began their set at around 9:40pm, opened with "Frank Sinatra," a signature deadpan pop song off their platinum 1996 album "Fashion Nugget." While bearded lead singer John McCrea 
played their songs with vigor of a younger band and hardly sounded like mid-90s radio castoffs. With their incessant jams and intri­cate musical interplay that bounced small bursts of acoustic riffs against 

with a little Weezer. 
Unfortunately, even as Cake began to reach a pulsating crescendo in their set, the security staff in attendance ruined the moment. For approximately 10 minutes 
during the middle of Cake's Cake was a most of the campus 
Unfortunately for many ofthe true rap fans in attendance, Akon spent much ofhis hour-long set not performing. 

the percussion, Cake was a Nor-Cal ver­tion of "Sheep Go To Heaven," which led sion of popular jam-band Phish, mixed to the crowd echoing McCrea's chants 
with "Goats go to Hell!" and alt-rock anthem "The Distance" before finishing The Show with a perfectly frazzled take on their recent hit "Short Skirt/Long Jacket" off Cake's 2001 album "Comfort Eagle." 
Metal barricades stopped the crowd from ever developing naturally in front of the stage. This created an empty expanse of space between the students near the front and the students lounging on the bleachers a hundred yards from the stage. Behind the stage was a mas­sive mural of a landscape painting that appeared to depict Switzerland in the summer, with mountains and flowing streams that looked like they were ripped from "The Sound of Music." Plus, a huge disco ball hovered over the top the stage. 
For many freshmen in attendance, The Show 2005 was less about coming to see the booked acts, and more about meet­ing new people at an event that didn't take place in a packed alley off-campus. While small groups of students were lin­ing up at 8 p.m. to enter the JACC, hordes of students were bypassing the arena as if it was invisible. 
Even though the crowd f1uctuated at times because people were coming and going between The Show and off-campus festivities, The Show 2005 sank under the weight oi:overzealous security meas­
ures. 
Also, it is question­
able whether or not 

set, the bright could identify with the
Nor-Cal version of
house lights of two artists selected for 
the JACC were jam-band Phish, 
this year's perform­turned on,suppos­mixed with a little ance. 
edly because a few students actually decided to attempt crowd surfing. 
Cake finished their set with sing-alongs of their singles and fan-favorites, including a spirited rendi­Thankfully, Cake's
Weezer. 
stream of hits from 
about seven years ago 
and some enthusiastic 

freshmen saved The Show 2005. On Friday night, you were able to have your "Cake and Akon too," but that doesn't mean it tasted good. 
Contact Bob Costa at rcostal@nd.edu 


... 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Monday, August 29, 2005 page 13 

CONCERT REVIEW 
Juliana Theory plays past difficulties 

independent label Tooth & Nail for its By KATE PETELLE first two records, after spending some 

Scene Writer 
time touring the country. Tooth & Nail released The Juliana Theory's first 

Tlw Juliana Theory made its Notre album, "Understand This is a Dream," Damn dobut Saturday night at Legends, in 1999, and "Emotion is Dead" in mtwting with generally good reviews 2000. The band released their third from studnnts. The band played some album, "Music from Another Room" in old favorites like "Into the Dark" and 2001, and signed with Epic Records in "To the Tune of 5,000 Screaming 2002 for their next album, "Love." Childrnn." as well as some new songs The album "Love" is more main­thn band had never before performed stream than the previous albums, in front of a live audience. which is possibly a 
Tlw band blow an amp reflection of signing narly in the show, causing juliana Theory with Epic, but it still somn delay (and some bad stays true to the
Artist: Juliana Theory 

joke-telling), but still met band's independent
Date: Sat, Aug. 27 

with gnnerally good student and unique roots.
Venue: Legends 

rnvinws. Fans can . visit 
"Despite experiencing www.julianatheory.net some <~quipment problems, Juliana to learn more about the band, its influ­Thnory was still able to rock out and ences and to gain access to information put on a good show," said senior about tour dates. They can also get Martin Snow. things like photos, buddy icons and 
During the course of the night, merchandise that relate to the band. Lngnnds saw between 800 and 900 stu­Each album is difierent than the pre­dnnts como for the concert, an excep­vious, showing how the band has tional crowd for tho first show of the evolved musically and has been yoar. inspired by bands like U2, the The Juliana Theory is comprised of Smashing Pumpkins and Led Zeppelin. 
Brott Dotar on  vocals and  The Juliana Theory's  new  
guitar. Chad Alan on bass and backing vocals, Joshua Findlor on guitar, Joshua  "Despite experiencing  album is called"Deadbeat Sweetheart" and is set to be released September 13  
Kosknr on guitar and back­ing vocals and Josh Walters on drums. All of tlw band members  some equipment problems, Juliana Theory was still  from Abacus Hecords. For Juliana Theory fans at Notre Dame, hearing the first live performance of  
grew up in southwestern  able to rock out  some  of the band's new  
Pennsylvania, and Detar, i\lan and Waltors havo been f r i e n d s sin 1: n c h i I d hood .  and put on a good show."  music made for a great night. "It was really exciting to  
Tlwy mnt up with Kosker  hear their new songs and  
and Fi<!dlor while still in high school. Tho five fornwd The Juliana Theory  Martin Snow senior  some of the best of their old," senior Kathryn DiPietro said.  
as a sido group while play- The next major show at  

ing in other bands, but they eventually Legends is GASM on Sept. 1. The band oaeh committed to The Juliana Theory is composed of seniors and grad stu­as a full-time projeet in 1997. . dents and does covers of songs from 
While the name of the band is unusu­the 80s and 90s. al, there is actually no special meaning behind it. The band signed with the Contact Kate Petelle at kpetelle@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME'S BEST... 

BY CLAIRE KELLEY 

Monday, August 29, 2005 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 

Oakland and New York stay hot with big wins 
they've got to get over it. and when you don't have your

A's take lead in West 
"What would I yell at them best stuff you're going to strug­for? For not getting a hit? gle a little bit." 

and Yanks remain 1.5 
They're trying. When they quit Giambi's two homers gave himout with Red Sox win trying, when they get lazy, I'll 23 for the season. It was his 
yell at them." sixth multihomer game of the 
Associated Press 
season and the 29th of his Yankees 10, Royals 3 career. 

BALTIMORE -The Oakland Jason Giambi was the· AI Leiter (4-3) earned his third Athletics had just moved into American League Player of the straight win, limiting the Royals first place in the AL West, and Month when he batted .355 with to two hits in six innings. He the reaction in the clubhouse 24 RB!s in July. In August, he struck out six, walked three and was. a collective yawn. found himself locked in slumps threw 112 pitches after reaching 
"It's not important at all. It's of 0-for-21 and 4-for-38. 75 after three inuings. really insignificant," third base­Same guy, same swing, differ­man Eric Chavez said Sunday ent results. Mariners 9, White Sox 2 after Oakland rolled to its fifth The good Giambi made an Once his teammates, the straight victory, a 10-3 rout of appearance Sunday with two Seattle Mariners have become the Baltimore Orioles. home runs and a single, driving Freddy Garcia's nemesis. 
Dan Haren pitched seven in seven runs in the New York After pitching brilliantly in a 1­innings of three-hit ball, and the Yankees' victory over Kansas 0 one-hit loss to Minnesota on Athletics hit three home runs in City. The spurt pushed Giambi Tuesday night, Garcia struggled reaching double figures in scor­past two personal milestones -in his return to Safeco Field, giv­ing for a second straight game. 1,500 hits and 1,000 RBis. ing up a season-high eight runs 
That, more than the fact that That was news to him, deliv­in 4 1-3 innings in Chicago's loss Oakland moved ahead of the Los ered by manager Joe Torre. to the Mariners on Sunday. Angeles Angels in the standings, "I really didn't know (about the Garcia, who ranks third on was what mattered most to the milestones)," Giambi said. Seattle's all-time wins list behind charging 1\s. "Actually, Joe's the one who con­only Jamie Moyer and Randy 
"Just a week ago we couldn't gratulated me. I said 'For what? Johnson, dropped to 0-3 with an find a hit," said Chavez, referring I know I haven't had a hit for a 8.35 ERA against the Mariners to a stretch in which Oakland while."' this year. He made his first start lost seven of eight, including When Giambi hit the first in his old ballpark since being three straight to Baltimore. homer, Torre wasn't surprised to traded on June 27 last year. "llitting is really going to dictate see the second. "It was a nice day today, but how well we do the next month." "Normally, power hitters hit not for me," Garcia said. "They 

Scott Hatteberg, Marco them in bunches," the manager hit it all over the place. I don't Scutaro and Mark Ellis homered said. "His swing is compact at have any excuse." to help the 1\s pass the Angels, this point in time. I look forward Garcia (11-7) made his short­at home by the AL Central lead­Wells' appeal of a six-game sus­who lost to Tampa Bay 2-1. to tomorrow to see where he hits est outing of the season, lasting ers for the first time since July pension for a confrontation with 
"I already told you I'm not rid­it." only one out into the fifth. The 30-Aug. 1, 1993. umpires July 22 is announced. ing the roller coaster," Oakland Giambi said his left elbow, Mariners chased him with three Moyer hasn't lost in Seattle Wells expects to learn that manager Ken Macha said. diagnosed with tendinitis, felt. runs in the inning to take an 8-2 since Oct. 2. 2004. Monday. 
Oakland, which has outscored better. lead. The 42-year-old lefty took a "Hegardless of what happens the Orioles 26-7 in the first three "I feel like I've got my bat "I played hard; maybe too hard tumble in the opening ... I'm still going to prepare games of the series, Will seek its speed back," he said. hard," he said. "But that's the inning when he was late cover­myself the same way I always first four-game sweep in. Giambi's first homer in the game. You have to take it like a ing first on Pablo Ozuna's bunt. do," Wells said. Baltimore on Monday. third inning was a three-run man." Sexson shuffled the ball to If his suspension remains at six 
Haren (11-1 0) struck out three, shot. He followed that with a Garcia pitched a one-hitter Moyer, who fell when Ozuna games, he wouldn't pitch before walked one and hit a batter. The two-run homer in the fifth and a against Minnesota on Tuesday tripped him during a head-first next Sunday. right-hander had lost his last two-run single in the sixth. night, but lost 1-0 on Jacque slide. His absence may not hurt three starts, in part because Bernie Williams drove in the Jones' homer in the eighth. Moyer wasn't hurt on the play. much if the Red Sox keep hitting Oakland totaled only one run other three Yankee runs with a Against Seattle, Garcia gave up "I was fine," he said. "It was as they've done, with 28 runs while he was pitching. pair of singles. 11 hits, walked two and threw just a matter of catching my and 38 hits in their last three 
"I was getting great run sup­Both of Giambi's homers came two wild pitches while striking breath. I didn't want to step on games. port for two or three months against Zack Greinke (3-16), who out four. It was his shortest start him. I was just trying to avoid an ''I'm not into whether they've straight, then I think the whole lost for the fifth straight time. His since he lasted 4 1-3 innings for injury on his behalf and my got all the pitching or not," team ran into a little funk," 16 losses are the most for any the White Sox against Detroit on behalf." Detroit manager Alan Trammell I Iaren said. "Hopefully that was pitcher in the majors. Aug. 17, 2004. said. "They wear you down our little hiccup this year and "Sometimes, I think I do White Sox manager Ozzie Red Sox 11, Tigers 3 offensively." we're back in it." decent, but it will just fmd a way Guillen talked to Garcia when he The Boston Red Sox kept The Red Sox were led by David 
Melvin Mora homered twice to happen," Greinke said. "Even took him out of the game. pounding the ball and, with Ortiz's 33rd homer and three and David Newhan also connect­if I pitch about as I good as I "He told me he feels pretty David Wells on the mound, the RBis, Bill Mueller's homer and ed for the Orioles, who have lost have pitched, they'll find a way, good," Guillen said. "I said, Tigers couldn't keep up. three hits and Johnny Damon's eight of nine to fall a season-high some way to score runs and win 'Thank God. If you feel bad, I Wells pitched seven strong two hits and three RBis as seven games under .500 (61-68). the game when I'm pitching. don't know what we're going to innings and gave Boston's over­Boston outhit Detroit 14-10. Baltimore issued a season-high "Today I didn't really give us a get."' worked bullpen a much needed Wells gave up three runs, two 11 walks, made its sixth error in chance. They've got some great Seattle manager Mike rest Sunday when the Red Sox earned, and nine hits with a sea­three games and continued its hitters and early on they were Hargrove was more specific beat Detroit to maintain their 1 son-high seven strikeouts. He struggle to score, but interim hitting my pitches pretty much, about Garcia's problems. 112-game lead over the New didn't walk a batter for the sixth manager Sam Perlozzo decided but later in the game I was "freddy had poor location of York Yankees in the AL East. time in his last seven starts. against gathering the team for a messing up." his pitches," Hargrove said. "We "We've got to play tremendous "We scored runs. He didn't stern lecture. Manager Buddy Bell said it didn't see Freddy. Garcia at his ball_from here on out," said give them back as rapidly as we 
"If I had thought going in there was not one of Greinke's better best today." Wells (11-6). "Our starting pitch­did," said Damon about and yelling at these guys would starts. Moyer (11-5) improved his ing has to step up a little bit Saturday's 12-8 loss in which make them get a hit, I wouldn't "His location really wasn't very record at home to 8-0 this sea­more." Boston wasted a 6-0 lead. "David be able to talk to you right now," good and it's a tough lineup," son and reserve Dave Hansen In their previous three games, Wells knows how to pitch and we he said. "These guys are not stu­Bell said. "Especially when came off the bench for Richie Boston's starters allowed at least need him to have a great month pid. They're trying. They're put­they're swinging the bats like Sexson to hit a home run as the five runs. More trouble could be of September and get us back to ting pressure on themselves, but they are, it's tough to deal with, Mariners avoided getting swept looming when the result of where we need to be." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

CHILD CARE WANTED: 3-year-old Two 2-bdrm condos: 18041-B Bulla Furnished 1 bedroom apt. 2 miles to WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. twins in our home. 1-2 weekdays Rd. & 18027-A Bulla Rd. $975/mo. ND. AJC, non-smoking, no pets, TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. 
WANTED (4-8 hours each day). Must provide FoR RENT Property Management Svcs 233-$450/mo. Free laundry, Flexible own transportation. Call Kara at 4590. lease. 289-9365. WANTED:4-6 MSU GAs 574-621-1540. LODGING FOR FOOTBALL together. Dave 248-761-1767 
Part-time babysitter, flex hrs., for 4-GAMES Visit www.amishcoun­yr-old boy. Must be responsible and trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Blue & Gold Homes. 2-8 bec;iroom, 
TICKETS

caring person. References req. Call FoR SALE Breakfast Accommodations. Non-weekend rentals, furnished, alumni PERSONAL 
574-631-3770. smoking, Private Baths, Full owned. You design lease. Call 250­Brand new full mattress & box. Still Breakfasts. 7653. FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do in plastic. $120. Can deliver. 574-289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE not go it alone. If you or someone 
SOCCER REFEREES needed for 876-4474. 2 bedroom home within 1.5 miles of 2001 alum looking to rent out Turtle FOR $$: www.victorytickets.com you love needs confidential support south side elementary school local-campus. Partially furnished with . Creek townhouse MSU weekend or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. ed near Erskine Golf Course on Queen pillowtop mattress set. New extra room, washer/dryer, and (9/16&17) $400 plus full maid BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT-Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more Miami St.$35 per soccer game. Call with warranty. $155. Can deliver. kitchen appliances. $750/month. cleanup on Sunday, negotiable. Call BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. information, see our bi-weekly ad in 574-291-4200. 574-231-4522. Call574-250-8552. Rob (415)845-5445 if interested. 273-3911. THE OBSERVER. 
Monday, August 29, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
MLB -NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Astros waste another stellar start by Clemens 
Valdez and Giants top Mets; Padres win but may lose Klesko 
Associated Press LOS AN<ii\LES -Tho zeros knnp piling up for Hoger Clnmnns. Unf'ortunatt~ly for him, tlwy are on Llw llouston Astros' sidn of' tho seornhoard. Clemons again got no run sup­port. as his l'ornwr Yankcos tnamm all~ .I nf'(' Weaver com­hirwd with l>uarwr Sanchez on an l~ight-hillnr to lnad the Los Angnles Dodgers to a 1-0 victory on Sunday. It was tlw nighth time in Clmnnns' 27 starts this snason thn Astros Wl'fl~ shut out, and tlw firth timn by a 1-0 seorn ­induding tlm~e games that went nxtra innings. "I don't bat an nyn at that." said Clemens, who was trying lilf his 340th 1~arnnr win. "That's hasnball. I don't put a lot of stock in it nithnr way. I've had my share of wins. II' I was wor­ried about that and how many garrws that I've had some tough luck over my 22 years, it would probably drive you crazy. So I don't worry about that. "These an~ rPally good games, run to pitch in and run to battle in, but I wish th1~y'd como out on our side a little morn of'ten." Wnaver (13-HJ allowed seven hits in eight innings, struck out I 0 and walked none. Tho right­hander had nine strikeouts over the first fivn innings -already tying the season high for any Dodg~ws pitcher -and escaped a bases-loaded jam in tho sec­ond by striking out Clemens al'tnr a two-out infield single by Brad Ausmus. 

Sanchez got three outs for his fourth save, as Weaver won his sixth straight decision over nine starts. 
"When you face a guy like Hoger, you've got to be on top ol' your game," said Weaver, who set a earner high l'or wins. "You don't expeet too much, so you take it as a 0-0 ballgame throughout tho game and hope that somewhere along tho line you pull out in front and win ­like we did today." 
Clemons allowed two hits and struck out live in six innings, but tho Dodgers scored in the eighth on Oscar Hoblos' HBI single ofl' Chad Qualls (4-3). Tho hit scored llon-Seop Choi, who dou­bled with two outs as a pinch­hittnr for Weaver. 
"JniT is having a pretty good year, from what I understand, and he pitched well today," Clemens said. "lie had a trnmendous brmtking ball and was able to spot his fastball. lie delinitely has the endurance to eat up a lot ol' innings and make them quality innings." 
Padres 4, Rockies 3 
The San Diogo Padres avoided being swept by Colorado, but wern much more concerned about the possible loss of right fielder Brian Gilns. 
Hyan Klesko had three HBis and Pedro Astaeio threw seven strong innings as the Padres beat the Hockies on Sunday. But the knee injury that drove Giles out of' the game was a major concern l'or the NL West leaders. 
"I think it's fair to say he is one guy we can't lose," Padres manager Bruce Bochy.."That would be a tremendous blow for us if we had him go down." 
Giles' injury is being called a bruised right knee after he col­lided with center lielder Dave Hoberts on a double hit by Choo Freeman into the right-eenter lield gap in the second inning. The two hit their right knees together and Giles went down for a few minutes befon~ remaining in the game. 


lie doubled in the third inning, but had trouble running and was replaced by pinch-runner Xavier Nady, who stayed in the game in right field. 
Giles is seheduled to undergo an MHI exam to rule out any further damage. The fear is that there may be ligament damage to the knee, the same knee in which Giles sufl'ered a strained ligament in April 2003 when playing for the Pittsburgh Pirates. He was forced to go on the disabled list and missed 23 

eastle~oiot 
APARTM E NTS 
18011 Cleveland R~ad • South Bend, [ndiana 46637 
CorneT orCleveland and Ironwood Road 
Phone (574) 272-8110 • Toll Free (888) 642-6110 www.cppj.eoro 
• llu.~ines.~ Center 
• 
rree Tanning Be£1 

• 
Racquet Ball 

• 
ltu:loor/Outdoor Tennis & Basketball 

• 
Stvimming • Exercise Roon1 

• 
Whirlpool & Sauna 


• Short-Term Leasing Options 


• 1-Z BEDROOMS/2 BEDROO.MS WJTH LOFT & DENS 
• MONTHLY EX.EClJfNE SUlTF...S 

games. 
"Hopefully. it's a day to day thing and I will be right back out there," said Giles, who added that the injury does not feel the same as when he strained the ligament with Pittsburgh. 
Giles leads the majors with 98 walks and has a team-high 68 RB!s. He is also considered by the players to be thnir inspira­tional leader. 
"He's the glue that holds this team together," said Mark Sweeney, who started at first base Sunday. 
Even without Giles, San Diego finally ligured out a way to beat the Rockies, the NI;s worst road team at 18-44. Colorado eame in with a four-game winning streak -all on the road -including the first two games of the series. The Padres also handed Jamey Wright his 16th loss, tying him for the most in the majors. 
Klesko, who had been strug­gling recently, broke a 2-all tie in the fifth inning with a bad­hop single that knocked in two runs. 
Giants 4, Mets 1 
Felipe Alou recalls how Noah Lowry's name raroly eame up in discussions of San Francisco's top pitching prospncts. Lowry's stul'l' was wild. and Matt Cain and Mnrkin Valdez always wore considored tho best of tho young bunch. 
The 20-year-old Cain will get tlw c:hanco to showcase his tal­ents wlwn ho makes his major leaguo Monday night, but Lowry has already proven his depond­ability every fifth day. 
Pedro Feliz hit a tiebreaking two-run hornnr in the sixth and 
J.T. Snow also connectnd in tho inning, rallying tho Giants to help Lowry win his lif'th straight start with a victory ovnr tlw New York Mcts on Sunday. 
Lowry isn't looking for the limelight -though he will cer­tainly be a strong candidate l'or Nl. piteher of the month after an amazing August. 
"Matt Cain and Merkin Valdez are guys with electrifying stull'," Lowry said. "My fastball is HCJ­90 and I rely more on mixing speeds. That's OK, that's fine with me (to be an unknown). I'd rather go out and stick to tho way I do things." 
After Carlos Beltran broke a scoroloss tie when he earno home on a wild pitch in top of' the sixth, tho Giants finally got to Kris Bnnson in tho bottom hall'. 
Attention Seniors: The FulbrightTeaching Assistantship Programs and the Romance Languages: 
Programs and Application Procedures Information Meeting with Professor Alain Toumayan 
Tuesday,August 30,2005 6:30PM Room I 18 DeBartolo 

• Featuring as guest speaker legendary NHl coach and Hockey Hall of Farner Scotty Bowman (former Detroit Red Wings head coach, 

winningest coach in NHL history -Including Nine Stanley Cups.) 
• 
Meet the 2005-06 Fighting Irish Hockey team and new head coach Jeff Jackson. 

• 
5-6pm open skate on the Joyce Center Ice Rink 

• 
6-6:45pm autographs with the Fighting Irish .team. 

• 
7pm Dinner Sponsored by Famous -Tickets are limited, call the and Speaking Program. Notre Dame ticket office at 


1-7356 to order you~ today! ..., ... ,nn•., Dame, 
Saint Mary's, Tickets only Cross College $1 0 .,...,,1'1..n'l'<: and Staff 
I I I 
' 
' ­
•
' 
I 
' 
' 
' 
I I 
---------c--~--~----------. 
page 16 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, August 29, 2005 

The SHOW would like to thank our sponsors for alii of their support: 
Student Affairs 
Student Activities 
OIT 
NDTV 
Campus Ministry 
The Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education 
Notre Dome Food Services 
Notre Dome Student Government 
Saint Mary's Boord ofGovernance 
Saint Mary's Office ofthe President 
Saint Mary's Student Activities Boord 

Multicultural Student Programs and Services 
The Morris Inn. 
Class of2006 
Class of2007 
Class of2008 
O'Neill Hall 
McGlinn Hall 
Stanford Hall 
Pasquerilla West Hall 
Center for Social Concerns 
We're looking forward to next year, The SHOW 2006! 
' .
' . 

Monday, August 29, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS 
NFL 
Bears say Orton's their guy 
Former Purdue star to start opening day against Washington 
Associated Press 
l.t\KJ<: FOB EST, Ill. -Hookin Kyln Orton was in the weight room whnn hn was summoned 
t.o eoach Lovin Smith's off'ice and givnn tlw nnws hn expnetnd to hoar: lie's tlw Chicago Boars' start­ing quartnr­b;u:k. 
"I was happy. I was­n't surprised, kind of
t h 0 ugh t it 
....._...._....._o_______ 
· Orton

was gotng t~~ happnn. Orton, a formnr Purdue star, said Sunday when the Bears madn yet another chango. 
"I obviously know tho recent history, so I know the city and all tho fans want a talented quarterback who's going to go out tlwre and play well and win a lot of football games and hopof'ully I'm that guy," Orton addMI, showing his eonfidenc1~. 
"I think I will be." 
While Orton was promoted duo to a strong performance in l,.riday's 1(>-12 11xhibition win ovor BuiTalo. struggling Chad Hutchinson was demoted all tlw way down tho depth chart. 
"As of now he's not in the rotation. We want to take a look at the othnr guys," Smith said. announcing that rflcently signed vetnran JolT Blake is now Orton's backup (tnd Kurt Kittnnr is No. 3. 
"Wn've smm him [IIutchinsonl all through training camp so we really want to get a look at the other guys," Smith added. 
Orton led an 81-yard scoring drive by eompleting 7 -of-9 passes against Buffalo's see­ond-team defense, while IIutchinson was 3-for-14 pass­ing with two interceptions and three saeks in a half of play against the Bills' first team. It was II utchinson 's seeond straight shaky outing since replacing the injured Hex Grossman, who broke his ankle Aug. 12 against the Rams. 
The Boars end their presea­son schedule Thursday at home against Cleveland and open the regular season Sept. 11 at Washington. 
Orton, who played at Purdue, was a fourth-round draft pick. IIe slipped in the draft after he was slowed by a hip injury in his senior season. 
Now he's a starter on a huge stage. In the preseason, he's completed 27 of 42 passes for 409 yards with two touchdowns and two intereeptions, mostly against baekups. 
"It's been a crazy couple months sinee the draft and all the way from sliding in the draft and now starting opening week," Orton said. "It's been lot of ups and downs." 
Orton said he learned watch­ing former Purdue teammate Drew Brees, now with the Chargers. He's also aware of the success another rookie quarterbaek, the Steelcrs' Ben Hoethlisberger, has experi­enced. But he also added he's his own quarterback. 
''I'm not going to try to go out there and be an MVP quarter­back. I'm going to try to go out there and make plays when they're there and hang on to the football and put our team in position to win," he said. 
''I'm not seared at all about being a rookie quarterback. I think I'm right where I nPed to be." 
Hutehinson, a former major league baseball pitcher with the Cardinals, started l'ive games for the Bears last season after Grossman's season ended in Game 3 with a torn knee lig­ament. lie moved ahead of backups Jonathan Quinn and Craig Krenzel after they had their chances to start. 
Hutchinson ran off the prac­tice field Sunday and did not comment. 
"I le told me to be comfortable with it. I think he's happy for me," Orton said of Hutchinson. 
Orton would be the fifth start­ing quarterback used by Smith, who is in his second season. Chicago was 5-11 a year ago. 
"You change any position on the field that much, it will dis­rupt and then you talk about the most important position on the field," center Olin Kreutz said. "We've chosen our guys and tried to stiek with them and there have been freak injuries and stuff like that. Hopefully Kyle is our guy." 
New receiver Muhsin Muhammmad, who'd figured to be Grossman's favorite target and then perhaps Hutchinson's, will now have to catch balls from a rookie. 
"We're going to have to make some tough catches. We're going to have to do some things out of the ordinary," Muhammad said. 

Have you thought about teaching Religion and becoming a Catechist?  
C-M Campus Ministry Ifyou can answer~ to any or all ofthese questions, come find out more about being a Religion Teacher.  
Important Information Meeting: Wednesday, August 31, 2005 5:00-6:00p.m. Room 330 Coleman-Morse Center Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-7163  

page 17 

GOLF 
Molinari rallies to capture US Amateur 
"It means a lot to me. 
Italian overcomes three-stroke deficit  Jones dosnd out his eompPli­tivn r.arnnr with a victory at tlw I<);10 Amatnur.  
to win coveted title  Molinari's approach hit near tho hole and spun back to  
approximately 40 fnet. lin  
Associated Press  made tho long putt and  
unleashed his lirst roal emotion  
ARDMORE, Pa. -Bobby  of the matd1 with a list pump  
Jones made history on tho 11th  as Dougherty shook his lwad in  
hole at Merion Golf Club.  disbPiiel'.  
Seventy-!'ive years later,  Dougherty failed to rnatr.h tlw  
Edoardo Molinari made a state­ birdie, and l'nll 3 down.  
ment there.  "I was just amazed.and a lit­ 
The 24-year-old Italian  tle frustrated because he rnally  
dropped a 40-foot birdie putt at  didn't give nw many opportuni­ 
No. 11 to complete a six-hole  ties," said Dougherty, whoso  
turnaround and extend his lead ·  fathnr, Dan, was his caddie in  
to throe holes, then went on to  tho championship.  
beat American Dillon  "I kept hoping for an oppor­ 
Dougherty 4 and 3 to win the  tunity, fin· him to just make par  
U.S. Amateur championship on  when I had a good chance at  
Sunday.  looking at birdie, and he would  
Molinari rallied from a three­ make it.  
hole deficit after 18 holes and  "So, after he made that on  
closed out the victory with a  11, I didn't li1el like it was over,  
25-foot birdie putt at the 33rd  but I felt like, man, this is get­ 
hole.  ting ridiculous."  
lie became the first Italian  After halving three straight  
male to win a U.S. Golf  holes, Molinari closnd out tho  
Association title, and the first  match on tho 15th with a long  
European to win the Amateur  birdie putt. lin took a step  
since Harold Hilton in 1911. lie  toward tho hole and, as the ball  
also joins Charles  disappeared into  
"Chick" Evans  the cup,  

(1916), Bobby unlnashnd a Jones (1924, '30), I still have to realize sweeping upper­Gary Cowan cut in celnbra­
it completely. " 
(1966) and ':hris tion. Patton (1989) as Dougherty, a amateur champi-Edoardo Molinari senior from 
ons at Merion, U.S. Amateur Champion Northwnstorn 
which hosted its 
17th USGA cham­pionship, the most of any dub. 
"It means a lot to me," Molinari said of winning at the historic Hugh Wilson-designed layout. "I still have to realize it completely. I'm really, really happy to have this win and to have won it here, especially." 
The finalists earned an invi­tation to next year's Masters and U.S. Open, and, as the win­ner, Molinari gets a return trip to the British Open, where he finished 60th this year at St. Andrews. 
Molinari said he'll delay his plan to go to qualifying school for the European Tour, and turn pro after next year's British Open. 
He was 3-down after 18 holes. He struck quickly over the final 18 of the 36-hole match play final, and rode pin­point putting to the title, need­ing just 18 putts over the last 15 holes. 
"It looks crazy to me as well," said Molinari, who is to com­plete his work toward an engi­neering degree next month. "I don't know the difference from this morning to this afternoon." 
Molinari birdied three of the first five holes in the afternoon to even the match. 
On the 19th hole, the tirst of the afternoon round, his approach spun baek out of the ball mark on the fringe, and he used the blade of his wedge to sink a 15-foot birdie try. 
On the second, he rolled in a 20-foot birdie putt to cut Dougherty's lead to a hole, and after halving two holes, evened the match with a 6-foot birdie putt at No. 5. 
He took his first lead on the 25th hole, the 345-yard sev­enth, with a 3-foot birdie putt. 
He curled in a 35-foot birdie putt at 9 to move to 2-up and made an emphatic statement at the historic No. 11, where who was ehnerod 
by his purple-dad teammates and 1~oach. had a chance to nxtend the match, but missed a 20-liJOt birdie try on almost tho samn line as Molinari. 
Molinari shook Dougherty's hand, and thon turned and embrac11d his fatlwr, Paolo, who had llown from Italy to fol­low his son in the evont. 
It was an amazing linish for a player who neoded to make a bunker shot for birdie on the last hole of stroke play to quali­fy for a playofl' bnforo advanc­ing to the 64-playor match play field. 
-
Doughnrty, from Woodland, Calif., is the sncond Northwestern golfor to advance to the finals, joining Evans, a f'ive-time finalist who won at Mnrion in 1<J16 and Engineors' Country Club in Hoslyn, N.Y., in 1920. 
The morning round started in a downpour, but Douglwrty seemed unfazed, making birdie on the lirst and then winning throe straight holes in the mid­dle of his round to go 3-up at tho break. 
Molinari was sure he would come back in tho af'ternoon. 
"I was quite eonf'idnnt boeausn I was playing wnll this morning," ho said. "I just could­n't bolo any putts. So, I said to myself. if I can keep on playing so well, and thnn maybo tlw putts will start to drop in and that's what happened today." 
I>ouglwrty said the hour break botweon rounds might have contributed to his sluggish play in the aftnrnoon. 
"In collegn golf, we play a lot of' 36-hoiP days where we just play a continuous day, and I kind of like that because you get into a rhythm and you just keep going," he said. "We stopped ... and that's a little hard bneause I just want to keep going." 

OUND THE NATION 
Monday August 29, 2005
Major League Baseball 
American League East 
team record perc. last 10 GB Boston 74-54 .578 5·5 New York 73-56 .566 8·2 1.5 Toronto " 65·65 .500 2·8 10 Baltimore 61-68 .473 2·8 13.5 Tampa Bay 55·76 .420 7·3 20.5 
American League Central 
team record perc. last 10 GB Chicago 79-48 .622 5·5 Cleveland 73·58 .557 8·2 8 Minnesota 68·62 .523 5·5 12.5 Detroit 62·66 .484 6·4 17.5 Kansas City 42·86 .328 4·6 37.5 
American League West 
team reeord pen~. last 10 GB Oakland 73-56 .566 6·4 Los Angeles 73·57 .562 4·6 0.5 Texas 61·68 .473 4·6 12 Seattle 55-74 .426 3·7 18 
National League East 
team reeord perc. last 10 GB Atlanta 74·56 .569 5·5 Philadelphia 70·60 .538 6·4 4 Florida 69·61 .531 6·4 5 New York 68·62 .523 7-3 6 Washington 67·63 .515 4·6 7 
National League Central 
team record pere. last 10 GB St. Louis 83-48 .634 7-3 Houston 68-62 .523 4·6 14.5 Milwaukee 64-67 .489 5·5 19 
Chicago 62-68 .477 4·6 20.5 Cincinnati 62-68 .477 8·2 20.5 Pillsburgh 54-77 .412 2·8 29 
National League West 
team record perc. last 10 GB San Diego 64-65 .496 5·5 Los Angeles 59·71 .454 4·6 5.5 Arizona 59·72 .450 3-7 6 San Francisco 57-72 .442 4·6 7 Colorado 51·79 .392 6·4 13.5 
Division 1-A Coaches' Top 25 
team 
1 usc 2 Texas 3 Tennessee 4 Michigan 5 Oklahoma 6 LSU

-7 Virginia Tech 8 Miami (FL) 9 Ohio State 10 Iowa 11 Florida 12 Florida State 13 Georgia 14 louisville 15 Auburn 16 Purdue 17 TexasA&M 18 Arizona State 19 Boise Slate 20 California 21 Texas Tech 22 Boston College 23 Virginia 24 Alabama 25 Pittsburgh 
votes prev. rank 
1,547 1 1,405 4 1,259 15 1,242 12 1,223 3 1,109 16 1,090 10 1,080 11 1,033 19 1,014 8 910 25 879 14 838 6 758 7 723 2 616 35 366 30 304 20 303 13 293 9 247 17 237 21 210 23 194 0 193 0 
around the dial 
NFL St. Louis at Detroit 7 p.m., ABC 
MLB 
Washington at Atlanta 6:35 p.m., TBS Los Angeles at Chicago Cubs 7:05p.m., Com cast 
TENNIS 
U.S. 
Open Coverage 10 a.m., USA 

U.S. 
Open Coverage 6 p.m., USA 


PGA 


AP Brad Faxon celebrates after winning the Buick Championship Sunday. Faxon defeated Tjaart van der Walt when he birdied the 18th hole, capping off a 9-under 61. 
Associated Press 
CROMWELL. Conn. ­Brad Faxon's persistence at the Buick Championship finally paid off. 
He rolled in a 3-foot birdie putt on the first playoff hole Sunday, and beat South African Tjaart van der Walt for his first victory since 2001. 
Faxon tied the course record in regulation with a 9-under 61, a personal best for the 44-year-old. He stayed close to home for his eighth PGA Tour victory, earning a $774,000 paycheck. 
The Rhode Islander has 
been a mainstay at this 

New England tournament, appearing 22 times. His best finish had been an eighth in 1996. 
"People get excited about this tournament and I love playing close to home," Faxon said. "Nobody on tour would ever tell you anything dif­ferently. My father came today, my aunt, my uncle, my cousins are here. Great friends are here. It's just awesome." 
Van der Walt shot a 64 Sunday and birdied the final two holes to tie Faxon at 14-under 266 and force a playoff back to the 434-yard par-4 18th. 
Third-rounder leader 
IN BRIEF 
Clarett to be released by the 
Denver Broncos 
DENVER -Unable to practice much or play at all during the pre­season, Maurice Clarett will be released by the Denver Broncos later this week, his agent said Sunday. 
Agent Steven Feldman said Clarett, the troubled running back who the Broncos surprisingly chose in the third round of this year's draft, will be released when the Broncos make their first round of cuts. 
"They didn't contact me, per se," Feldman said in a telephone inter­view with The Associated Press. "The kid called me and let me know they're going to let him go." 
Clarett's pending release also was reported by ESPN.com on Sunday. 
Broncos spokesman Jim Saccomano said the team didn't plan to release anybody until Tuesday. 
The pending release marks a dis­appointing start to the NFL career of the former Ohio State running back, who missed two years of football Justin Rose (69) finished one stroke out of the play­off. while former British Open champion Ben Curtis (69). Jerry Kelly 

(77) and NCAA runner-up Michael Putnam (63) were all at 12 under. 
Putnam had been at Merion last week for the 
U.S. Amateur when he was told he received a sponsor's exemption to the Buick Championship. He decided to turn pro and earned $177,733 in his PGA Tour debut. 
Faxon thought he would be home sooner than later earlier in the week. He made the 36-hole cut on the number and was back in his hotel room packing up Friday afternoon while waiting to hear if he made it. 
"This was really kind of out of the blue," he said. "The first two days I played OK. Then some­thing happened yesterday where all the putts start~ ed going in." 
On Sunday, not only did his putts fall but he took advantage of a couple of favorable rulings to save par on the last two holes. When his tee shot on No. 17 rolled about 40 yards down a cart path and damaged the ball, Faxon got to pull out a new ball and place his drop. 
On the playoff hole both hit great second shots. 

after leading the Buckeyes to the national title. Kanaan defeats Rice to win 
Indy Grand Prix 
SONOMA, Calif. -Tony Kanaan took advantage of teammate Dan Wheldon's misfortune to move into the lead, then ran away from the field Sunday to win the Argent Mortgage Indy Grand Prix. 
Kanaan beat Buddy Rice by 1.182 seconds-about eight car-lengths­for his second IRL IndyCar win of the season, completing a sweep for Andretti Green Racing on Sunday. Owner Michael Andretti's son, Marco, won the Menards Infiniti Pro Series earlier in the day. 
It was Wheldon's broken fuel pump that allowed Kanaan to take the lead on the 53rd of 80 laps at Infineon Raceway. 
"I have had bad days and he capi­talized a lot on them," Kanaan said of Wheldon, the IndyCar points leader. 
Kanaan averaged 91.040 mph 
around Infineon's 12-turn, 2.26-mile track in the first IRL race held on a road course. PhiladelP-hia releases defen­
sive end Simon 
PHILADELPHIA-The Philadelphia Eagles withdrew their franchise tag on former first-round draft pick Corey Simon on Sunday, making the defensive tackle an unrestricted free agent. 
Simon was offered a one-year fran­chise tender worth about $5.13 mil­lion, but wanted a long-term contract and· never signed the deal or reported to training camp. With the franchise tag, another team would have forfeit­ed two frrst-round picks if they signed the former Pro Bowl lineman. 
"We appreciate all that Corey has done for this organization over the last five years," coach Andy Reid said. "With the great amount of depth and talent we have along the defen­sive line, we chose to give Corey an opportunity to sign with another team." 
r--------------------------------------------------­
Monday, August 29, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page I 9 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Duffy's offseason proves gold~n 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Senior Megan Dully went from having hopes of' being a water girl for team USA to its captain and starting point guard in a matter of' four months. 
DuiTy won gold with the 2005 USA World University (;ames u~arn Aug. 19­almost a month al'tnr sho was one 


of 12 ehosnn Duffy from a group of I(J 11nalists to mako thn tnam. 
"I was just hoping to make the tnam honnslly, whnn I saw the compPlilion," Dully said. "When tlwre wen~ 16 lnl't, I was just hoping to lw the wator girl at the nnd of' thn bnnch -I was pnrl'nelly linn with that." 
llowover, Dul'ly became much morn than that as shn.was nleet­ed co-captain by lwr tnam­mates, which indudnd the likes of Duke's Moniqun Currie and l.SU's Snimonn Augustus, both eonsidnrnd two of thn best in women's collegiate basketball. 
"To lw voted captain by my teammates and pners, was defi­nitely unexJHH~tnd and some­thing that I hold close to my !wart." Duffy said. "It was an honor for m1~ and a privilege." 
The senior hnlpnd the team achievn a 7-0 record, winning evnry game by at lnast 24 points, including a 79-53 win ovnr Snrbia & Montmwgro in the gold-nwdal ganw. Duffy aver­agPd (J.I points and 2.1 assists 
International Study Programs 
INNSBRUCK and Berlin 
2006-2007 Acade11zic Year 
Please Join Prof. Hannelore Weber and returnees of the program Information Session 
Questions?-Wcber.l5@nd.cdu Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2005 
per game, starting all seven games played in lzmir, Turkey. 
"Heprestmting my country was the h ighnst honor I've ever got­ten and it was an overall unbe­lievable experience," Dully said. 
Notre Dame head coach MufTet McCraw said she hopes this experience will help DuiTy's confidence coming into her final season with tho Irish. 
"I think just the whole expori­encn of her leadnrship and see­ing what she's been able to do with this team is going to give her confidence, more than any­thing," McGraw said. "Making the team was great, but then she's elected captain, then she's a starter, so I think it's just doing groat things for her conli­dencn." 
Duffy madn the team Aug. 1 aftnr participating in USA Basketball Training Camp from July 28-31 in Colorado Springs, Colo. Dully and Hutgers' Cappie Pondnxtnr represented the Big East Conference as the only two playnrs snlectnd. 
And playing overseas gave Dully a taste of a different type of game, one that she was not used to. 
"My impressions going into it were that it was going tiJ be more of' a finesse game, but really it was the opposite," she said. "It was more physical, a couple of the games were more physical than any of the games I've played in college." 
And McGraw thinks the expe­rience playing a different style of basketball will only benef'it Duffy and the Irish this season as they look to improve upon last year's second round loss in the NCAA Tournament. 
"I think she's learned a lot of things from them and under-stands a little different type of game at the international level," McGraw. 

But even while gaining valu­able experience, Duffy said it was an honor just to play on the team, especially after taking home the gold. 
"It's pretty neat anytime you have USA across your chest," Duffy said. "We had just an unbelievably talented team. 
"To get a gold medal and share it with your teammates and stop on that podium and hear your national anthem was pretty amazing." 
Notes: 
+ Sophomore guard Charel Allen, who tore her ACL and MCL in her left knee in the final game of her freshman season, should be ready to start praetic­ing by November and ready to play come the Big East season, McGraw said last week. 
"She's on track, she's working hard," McGraw said. "We defi­nitely expect her to play this year. We're not exactly sure when, but we're hoping for cer­tainly by the Big East season. l think she'll be practicing by November and it will be a week­by-week thing." 
Allen said she is confident she can return to the form that earned her a spot on the All-Big East Freshman team. 
"[ feel the improvement," said Allen, who had surgery in May. ''I'm capable of doing things I wasn't coming out of surgery and when I got hurt. I'm still confident in it, not confident nnough to play yet. but the whole process-it feels line." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvan~oeg@nd.edu 

NOTRE DAME DEPTH CHART 
...WR  21 83  Maurice Stovall JeffSamardzija  LE  95 99  Victor Ahiamiri (~Onll/d 1:1//t.'J  
LT  68 77  Ryan Harris Michael Turkovich  LT  98 <)()  Trevor Laws B1ian Beidatsc:!J  
LG  50 79  Dan Santucci Brian Mattes  RT  66 57 96  Derek Landri Dwight Step!Jcnson Pal Kulll7  
76 18  Bob Morton .fohn Sullivan  RE  75 94  Chris Frome .Tustin Brown  
RG  74 62  Dan Stevenson Scott Rmidon  WLB  39 52  Brandon Hoyte Joe Bnx:kington  
RT  73 12  MarkLeVoir Paul Duncan  MLB  46 47  Corey Mays Mitclwll ·nwnws  
WR QB·  Anthony Fasano •.· 1olw C"arlscm . Marcus Ft·eeman 5 Rhema McKnight 82 Matt Shelton 10 Brady Quinn 14 David '"hlke  Apache 40 4 48 LCB 22 15 ws 18 27  Maurice Crum Anthony Vr.mwgli<l Steve Quinn Ambrose Wooden Leo Fcrri11c Chinedum Ndukwe Dilvid nmton  - 
FB :rmn:=::· HB  16 44 3 26  Rashon Powers-:­Neal Asapb Schwapp Darius Walker Travis Thomas  ss RCB  9 28 30 29 20  Tom Zbikowski Kyle McCilrllly Mike Richardson l.<18rose Ilcdgemon I I Termil Lnmbert  

Wednesday, August 31,2005 118 DeBartolo 7:00PM 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 

Depth 
continued from page 24 
"At the tackle spots, it's clearly Hyan and Mark as the No. 1 guys," Weis said. 
"We do not son a similar rotation with those guys as we do with the four inside." 
Three freshmen -Asaph Schwapp, Michael Turkovich and Paul Duncan -are cur­rently listed as offensive back-ups at fullback, left tackle and right tackle, respectively. Weis has. been particularly impressed with Sehwapp's bruising style of play. 
"Asaph has been a very phy:>ical and il-nposing force," Weis said. "I would not call him a pleasant surprise beeause that is what we thought we were gntting when he got here. 
"It is just a question of how quick these guys can get ready to go. I would not be surprised to sen Asaph on the field Saturday night." 
Sophomore David Wolke won the right to back up Quinn at quarterback, edging out freshman Evan Sharpley, and a pair of walk-ons in Dan Gorski and Marty Mooney. 
"We had a really tough competition at the backup quarterback slot, and I think we decided that David's expe­rience really won out over everything else," We is said. "We felt that if Brady went down and we had to play someone, the guy that would give us the best chance to win is David." 
On the defensive side of the ball, Weis will employ a simi­lar approach with his defen­sive line as hn is planning with the offensivn line ­using throe players (Trevor Laws, Derek Landri and Brian Beidatseh) in two spots (left and right tackle). 
nificant comment for nw to make. When I say ho is a foot­ball playnr -then~ arn somn guys who arn out thnrn, hut they don't havn grnat football instincts. 
"I fnnl confidnnt wlwn lw is out on the f'ield. That trio of linob<u~kers, with IBrandon I lloyto, !Corny) Mays and Crum -that is a pretty good thrnn to start out with." 
Zbikowski, as expected, will load a secondary rounded out by Chinndum Ndukwn at safe­ty and Mike Hichardson and Ambrose Wooden at tho l~or­ners. 
In a f'inrcn battle of young players for tho open SIH~ond­ary spots, Wooden rose above his compotition to claim tlw starting lnrt cornerback job. 
"Wn didn't havn him much in tho spring becauso hn was coming ofT an injury," Weis said. "lin was an unknown to mo. I know he had a lot of athletic ability. I know he was very intelligent. lin is anothnr one that falls into that pleas­ant-surprise category. 
'Thoro was a lot of competi­tion and a lot of innxpnri­(1!1Ced players vying for spots. Ambrose has certainly rison to the spot that warrants him running with tlw lirst tnam." 
On special teams, D.J. Fitzpatrick will once again hamlin tho kieking and punt­ing duties, and Chaso Anastasio remains the pri­mary kiek returner, though as many as f'ivn othnr.playors could sen time. 
Perhaps tho most surprising speeial tmuns listing is fresh­man David Grimes in the No. 1 punt returner slot. 
"I think that David <;rimns has had a very nxcellnnt camp." Weis said. "From day one, he has boon OIW of tho most pleasant surprisns wn have had. lie has shown oxceptional ball skills and quicknoss." 
With tho starting and b<u~k­up rolns defined, Weis and his staff can now turn tlwir atten­tion to proparing for their lirst. ganw on tho Notn~ I>anw sidnlinos against. thn Pantlwrs Saturday night. 
Maurice Crum. Jr. joins Walker as tho only two sopho­mores starting on offense or defense. Crum 's football intu­ition set him apart during training camp. 
"Maurice is both very ath­let!.c an? he .is '~. footb~ll pl~y­er, Wms s<ud. That IS a s1g­Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, August 29, 2005 
Classic 
continued from page 24 
the game. A perfect pass from Amanda Cinalli opened up a one-on-one for Thorlakson against New Hampshire goalie Julie Randall. 
After New Hampshire's Ashlee Cieslak capitalized on an Irish defensive miscommunica­tion five minutes later, Thorlakson and Hanks assisted on Susan Pinnick's decisive goal at 29:40. 
Prom there, the Irish played possession soccer, controlling the ball for long stretches at a time. They domi­nated time of pos­in terms of freshman perform­

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
ances on a weekend," he said, "but it's definitely up there in the record books." 
That it was, as Hanks became 

Tough to get by goalie Bohn 
just the second freshman in 
Irish history to record hat tricks in consecutive games, and the first to do so in her first two contests. 
After the game, she was pre­sented with the Nike Classic's offensive MVP award for her 15-point (7G-1A) performance. 
Not only did Notre Dame shine with possession of the ball, but the Irish stymied the opposing offense for the second consecutive game. 
Irish goalkeeper Erika Bohn, 
the tournament's 
defensive MVP. 
session so much needed to make
"We've really got a 

Bohn, the goalkeeper lbr the Irish 
that New just one save 

whose talented teammates virtu­
Hampshire only lot ofweapons to thanks to a suffo­

ally allowed her to sit back and
managed one shot start a good cating defensive 
watch many of the games. 
all game performance.
attack., 

That is, until the title game
Cieslak's early The game was 
itself. · 
goal. marked by steady 

A 1-1 tie late in the final period 
The win gave Randy Waldrum play by a slew of 

was in jeopardy when UClA had 
the Irish six con­Irish coach Irish starters and 
secutive opening­day victories under Waldrum. His only defeat came in 1999 at the hands of' perennial powerhouse North Carolina. 
This time, the team's 22 shots on goal paved the way for a deeisive victory. 
"We've really got a lot of weapons to start a good attack," he said. 
Freshman Brittany Bock added two goals for the Irish in her first official contest with tho tnam. 
"She's an offensive weapon," Waldrum said, "and [she! gives us a physical presence, going up in the air [for 50-SO's]." 
Senior forward Maggie Manning also added a goal and two assists for four. points on the night. Cinalli netted a goal and two assists for the Irish. 
Notre Dame 6, Vermont 0 
With her second straight stel­lar performance to begin her Irish career, Kerri Hanks led the Irish to a solid victory over Vermont Sunday. 
After scoring three goals on Friday, Hanks upped the ante Sunday, netting four more goals for a total of seven in her first two collegiate games. 
What's more, Hanks scored the first three goals of' the game in a 20-minute span, for her second consecutive game with a natural hat trick. 
Coach Waldrum had only superlatives to say about Hanks' performance. 
"I don't know how that ranks 
reserves, as the 
coaching stafl' looked to mix and match the lineups to find what combina­tions of players worked best together. 
Despite Waldrum's admission that the strategy may have "hurt continuity a little bit," the Irish still managed 18 shots, including Brittany Bock's third goal of the-weekend. 
"We played her [Bock] at a couple different places," Waldrum said, "and we're just trying to find again where shfl should play and with what play­ers." 
Though the Irish won both games convincingly, Waldrum said that the team still had areas that needed substantial improvement. 
"We weren't quite ever in sync but I'd probably be a little worried if we were," he said. "It's going to be a long battle in the year, and we want to peak at the right time." 
The next several games may be one such time to peak, as the team faces what Waldrum calls a "tremendously difficult stretch of games" over the next two weeks. 
The Irish face Florida and Maryland at home in the Inn at Saint Mary's Notre Dame Classic next weekend, then go on the road to face perennial powerhouse Santa Clara and Gonzaga in the SCU Adidas Classic Sept. 9 and 11. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 

In 2004, Notre Dame won its second national championship in 1 0 years due in large part to its strong team defense for much of the season. 
The Irish were ablfl to domi­nate their opponents, limiting their scoring opportunities while putting up impressive oll'ensive numbers of their own. 
Lost in much of that was Erika 
an opportunity to take the load on a penalty kick. Bohn, who had not faced a penalty kick all sea­son, was now faced with one of the most stressful situations in all of sports. 
The rest is history. 

Bohn deflected the shot, and Notre Dame went on to win the national championship game 1-1 (4-3 on penalty kicks). 
"I think it really kind of took Erika to the next levfll," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. 
Entering this season, Bohn is hoping to take a lot ol' the momentum coming oil' last sea­son and put it toward a suceessful 2005 campaign. 
Following her impressive championship weekend, Bohn was named to the U.S. Under-21 National Team, one of only two goalkeepers to earn that meogni­tion. Bohn's team went on to win the Nordic Cup in Sweden. 
That sort of recognition is not 
Tallk It Out.... Walk It Out... Wa.lt It Out.•• 

something that Bohn i<> necessari­ly used to. 
Waldrum described the process of selecting players for All-Big East awards, and the difficulty that is presented when it comes to goalkeepers. 
Like most things in competitive sports, statistics define how suc­eessful a player is with respect to those who play the same position. When a strong goalkeeper on a championship ealiber team has her statistics compared to her contemporaries, the numbers often fall short beeause the goal­keeper on thfl weaker team is lacing more shots. 
And, by default, collects more saves. 
"It seems like we've struggled over the years with our goalkeep­ers, because we've had such a great legacy of good goalkeepers, to get them recognized," Waldrum said. 
"Most of the keepers that are getting some of these awards, especially you'll find it in our con­ference, are the ones that am giv­ing up two or three goaL<> a game, but they are handling 25 or 30 shots a game." 
But according to Waldrum, those types of individual achieve­ments do not concern the quiet, mild-mannered Bohn. 
"I think she would rather have the All-An1erican status and the national championship ring," Waldrum said. "I think she's got hflr priorities placfld wflll." 
Interestingly enough, Bohn has already been named the 2005 Big East preseason goalkeeper of the year despite the relative dillieulty Waldrum deseribed. 
The Irish coach has been impressed with Bohn in the early stages of this season, notably when it comes to her conditioning and confidence. 
"She looks the best physically that she's looked in the four years that she's been here," Waldrum said. "She's probably the healthi­est she's been sinee she's been here. Mentally, her confidenee is really soaring." 
And that confidence means more to the Irish than just her ability to stop shot<>. 
Waldrum described Bohn when she first arrived at Notre Dame as a shy, quiet freshman who was nervous around her eoaehes and her new surroundings. 
But as time progressed, Bohn -who by natun~ likes to lead by example -ha'> started to under­stand her role a bit morn. 
"She's starting to come around and become morfl vocal," Waldrum said. "She's starting to conunand a little mom and be a little bit more demanding. Those are the things you want with a goalkeeper. 
"I think there's just a lot of respect for her a_<; a pflrson and I think that translates to some leadership with her a_<; well." 
It is no secret that the Irish havfl unlimited firepower on offense, as was madfl evident in last weekend's vietories over New Hampshire and Vermont. 
The defense wants to continue to be solid, eating up ofl'ensive chances as quickly as they are presented. 
And with a confident, flager Bohn returning in goal, the Irish just might have what it takes to prove that last year wa<> only the beginning of something very spe­cial. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
To register online visit our v,.·ebsite: Vli~\W. take ten. org 


*Spend an hour a "v<reek "~vvita~ }'OUf tearn in ru.11 area school teaching violence prevention skills 
:kChoos.e fi·otn a \ra:riety of s,chools, age groups, and n1eeting tin1es 
*~:raiit1it1g "vJtiU be p1ovido.f ­
*F,ede.ral 1rvork srudy positions ava.:ihble 


-
Come visit our tab'Je at activities nigh~ Tuesday August 30~ 
-ta ke-teh @11 ~ ,e.~ lt 


GEOFF MATTESONfThe Observer Carrie Dew dribbles during practice Aug. 16. The Irish freshman s··74-~6· 3"1_9-·.+24 
574-.631 .94-32 scored one goal during Notre Dame's 6--0 win over Vermont Sunday. 


Monday, August 29, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
NOTRE BIIME --·---­
JICTIJI/TIESI/BIT


Tuesday, August301h ••• 7:00 PM -9:00 PM ••• JOYCE CENTER FIELDHOUSE 
ACADEMIC, ATHlETIC, PERFORMING ARTS, SPECIAl INTEREST ClUBS AND ORGANIZATIONS 
A Life Uncommon Hispanic Business Student Association Shirt Project, The Troop Nom' Dame Acadrmic Compt•tition Club History Club Society of Women Engineers Ultimate Frisbee Club Acrounling Association Humor ArtisL~ Sociology Club Unchained Melodies Actuarial Science Club Hurling and Camogie Club Sarin Rlne Team -Army ROTC Undergraduate Women in Business Ad works Ire Hockey Team, Women's Spanish Club Univt•rsity Young Life Africa Fallh & Juslire Network Indian Association Squash Club Vietnamese Studem As.~oriation African Students Association Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Student Alumni Relations Group Voices of Faith GospPI Choir Amateur l~adio Club Investment Club Student Government Volleyball Club, Men's Anwrlran Clwmiral Society Irish Dance Club Student Intern~llonal Business Council Wabruda. The American Institute of Aeronaut irs & Astronautic~ Irish Gardens Swdent Players Water Polo Club, Men's Arnerlran Institute of Chemical Engineers Iron Sharpens Iron Student Union Board Water Polo Club, Women's Arncriran Sorlety of Civil Enghwt>rs Italian Club Sustained Dialogue Women In Politics 
Amt•rican Society of Mechanical Engineers/ 
Japan Club Swing Club Women's Liturgical Choir 
Society of Automotive Englnet•rs Japanese Martial Arts Club Symphony Orchestra World Taekwondo Fedrratinn CluiJ Amnesty lmcrnatlonal 
Jewish Club Texas Club, The WSND-FM Anime Club Joint Engineering Council Toastrnasters lnlernalional WVFI Anthropology Club Judirial Council Asian Ameriran Association 
Juggler, The SOCIAl SERVICE ClUBS AND COMMUNITY AGENCIES 
Asian lnll'rnalional Society Juggling Club Bagpip•• Band 
AIDS Awareness LEAD-NO
Junior Parents WeekPnd Ballet Folkloriro Azul y Oro AIDS Ministries/ AIDS Assist Life Treatment Centers 
Knights of the Immaculata Ballroom Danre Club Allianre To LPad And Serve Logan Center
Korean Student Association Bands. Student Organization American Cancer Society Club Logan Recreation Club 
La Alianza Baptist CollPglate Ministry Arnold Air Society Ms. Wizard Day Program Team
I..e CPrl'le Francais (French Club) Biology Club Best Buddies Neighborhood Study Help Program 
LPague of Black Business Students Rlark Cultural Arts Council Big Brothers/Big Sisters Club Op••ration Smile Student Organization 
Leprechaun Legion Bowling Club Big Brothers/Big Sisters of St. Joe County Reigns of Life. Inc.
Llnux Users Group Boxing Club, Men's Boy Smul~ of America, LaSalle Council Saint Joseph's Chapin Street Health Ct•nter Volunte<·rs 
Man~g•·ment Club Boxing Club. Wonwn's Boys and Girls Clubs of St. Joseph County Saint Vincent cle Paul Sorlety 
M~nagenwnt Information Systems Club Campus Ft•llowship of the Holy Spirit Campus Allianre for Rape Elirninallon Silver Wings (Benjamin D. Foulols Chapt..r) 
Marketing Club Caribbean Student Organization Campus Girl Scouts Slice of Life
Martial Art' Institute CelPhrallon Choir 
MEChA de NO (Movlmiento Estucliantil Center for the HomelP~'-' S-0-S of M~dison Center Chicano dP Aztlan)
Cht·s.~ Club Charles Martin. Youth Center South Bend Juvenile Corrections Chllclnm of Mary Mediaeval Society of Our Lady of the Lake 
Circle K Southem Care Hospire Mexican American Engineers & SclPnlisls/Children's Defense Fund Conununily Alliance to Serve Hispanics Special Friends C:lu b
Society of Hispanir Professional Engineers Chinese Cultun• Society Oismas House Swdents for Environmental Action 
Minority Pre -Medlral Society Chorale Darners Mentoring Kids Students for Organ Donallon 
Mock Trial Association Climbing Club Foods hare Super Sibs 
Mu Alpha Theta (Math Club) Club Coordination Council Habitat for Humanlly TParnwork for TommTow Muslim Student Assoctallon Club 'Sola 
National Association for the Advancement I-IPlpful Undl'rgr~duate Studt•nts Trident Naval Society Coll!'l!£' Democrats of Colored People Humane Society of St. Joseph County Twenty-First Century Scholars College Libertarians National Society of Black Engineers 
Irish Fighting for St. jude Kids Women In Social Service and Ht•alth College Republicans Native American Student Association 
Knights of Columbus. No. 1477 Women's Care Center Compul!•r Club ND li1r Animals 
La Cas~ de Amistad World Hunger Coallllon Corn Prlm~vt•ra de Nut•stra SPnora NDeslgn 
SPECIAl GUESTS

Cycling Club NDTV (Student Broadcasting of Notre Dame) D(•bate TPam Not·So -Royal Shakespeare Company 
Alliance for Catholic Education· Legends of Notre Dame DPtachment 225 AFROTC Observer. The 
American Red Cross Office of Alcohol and Drug Education/PILLARS
Orestes Brownson Council on CatholicismDonw Designs 

and Ameriran Politics Athletic Promotions RecSports Dome Yearbook 
Organizacion Latino Americana Campus Ministry Robinson Community Learning Centerffake Ten Economics Club 
Orthodox Christlan Fellowship Club Center for Social Concerns Sisters of the Congregation of Holy Cross Entreprt•rwur Club 
Standing Committee on 
Pakistan Student Assodallon Club Coordination Council 

Equestrian ClulJ Gay and Lesbian Student Needs Pasqu••rl)la East Musical Company Educational Talent Search Farley Hall Players Student Activities Office 
Peace Fellowship First Aid Services Team Feminist Volre TrdtlSpo
1'1 Sigma Alpha Gender Relations Center Field HockPy Club Undergraduate Admissions Office 
Polish Club Fighting Irish Wrestling Club Pom Pon Squad Figure Skating Club 
Pre -Dental Society Filipino American Student Organization Prl' .!'rofessional Society/ AMSA First Chts.' St1•ppers Pn' -Vel Club FlipS Ide 
GET INVOlVED 
.­

Progrt•s.sivl' Student Alli~nce Fly Fishing Club Psychology Club 
Forum on Biomedical Ethtrs All current Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross 
Right To Life Freshman Class Council students are invited to join us for our annual
!~owing Club. Men's Crew Gaelic Sod<•ty 
Running Club, Men's Notre Dame Activities Night. Hundreds of clubs and Gl'rman Club 
Running Club. Womrn's organizations will be represented to meet and 
Guitar Players Assorlalion 
Russian Club 

sign-up new members.. distribute information and
Cymnusllcs Club Sahaja Yoga Association 
Halflinw share their plans for the year. Don't miss it. 
Salling Club I landhl'll Choir 
Saint Edward's Hall Players HannOJtla Srholasllc Magazine Online info: Hawaii C:luh -Na Pua Kai 'Ewah1 
Sr!enre -Business Club sao. nd.edu/studentgroups/programs/an/index.shtml
lleahh ( krufMlions Students of America Shades of Ebony 
ACTIVITIES NIGHT IS COORDINATED BY THE STUDENT ACTIVITIES OFFICE 
AND COSPONSORED BY RECSPORTS IN COLLABORATION WITH THE CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL 
Monday, August 29, 2005
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
House 
continued from page 24 
that there's a lot of things that we did well. I think it's also good because we can look at the film, and we can think about all the diffprent things that we did that we weren't as good at, but we know we can be." 
While she was still excited, Big East preseason player of the year Lauren Brewster was just as realistic as her coach. 
"We had a few things that didn't work out, and we cer­tainly have a lot to work on in practice," she said. "It was a lot of fun and really exciting. I think we did pretty well. We did well on some things that we worked on in practice, and we didn't do so well on some things that we worked on in practice. 
"Once you get on the court with your team, it gives you more confidence; you get more comfortable." 
The Irish played a solid defensive match, allowing their setters to get the ball to Kelbley and Brewster and their other attackers. Notre Dame had 46 total set assists and sophomore setter Ashley Tarutis had 40 of them. 
The experienced Kelbley gave credit where credit was due. 
"Obviously it was a com­bined team effort," she said. "We had the passes and great sets that we could put the ball away. We're an all-around crew. I don't think it was just a few girls -I think we all con­tributed greatly." 
On the front line, in addition to Kelbley and Brewster, Carolyn Cooper and Meg Henican combined for 11 kills. Ellen Heintzman added six. 
Throughout the three games, the Irish dominated the Wolverines with a combi­nation of powerful kills, brick­wall-like blocks and diving digs. Brown was pleased with her team's -effort in the open­er. 
"I think the way the team approached it mentally was 

really good; we got off to a good start," she said. "We pretty much controlled it the whole way." • 
While the veterans led, two freshmen, Mallorie Croat and Madison Clark, showed they will be ready to contribute this season. 
"I think it was important for Mallorie to get in, to get out on the floor and to get the jit­ters out of the way," Brown said. "Both of them did well and the other two [freshmen] will have their opportunity." 
This week the Irish will try to. make their corrections in practice, in time for The Inn at Saint Mary's Shamrock Invitational, a round-robin tournament with Arizona State and 11th ranked Texas. The three-team event begins Friday with the Sun Devils tangling with the Longhorns. 
"We've got some great teams coming in," Brewster said. "We had a few kinks that we kind of have to iron out." 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 


Irish 
continued from page 24 
game." 
Irish midfielder Nate Norman drew the game's first blood on a goal at 23:06. Dueling defenders for possession of a corner kick, the junior found the net from more than 30 yards away. 
The Wolverines struck back in the 64th minute, as Kevin Savitskie scored off an Adam Bruh corner kick. Chris Cahill allowed the goal after replacing Justin Michaud, who notched three saves in the game. The score forced overtime for the second time in as many exhibi­said. "[Midfieldersl have got to score goals and be productive and I think that's one of the key things." 

Through preseason play, one strength Clark pointed out is the team's level of athleticism and physical fitness. 
"I think the nice thing in both games, we kept looking to win, we kept looking to force the play," Clark said. "This team is very fit, we looked a very fit team in both games we were playing." 
When the team plays such down-to-the-wire games, players who are already in soccer-play­ing shape are an asset -that and a level of determination that Clark has already noted. 
"When we hit the overtime we were the team that was wanting to win the game, they were quite content to hold on," he said. 
Clark has many reasons to be excited for his squad's season opener Sept. 2 against No. 7/8 SMU. 
"I think we're now beginning to become a team," Clark said. "I don't think we're a team yet but we're getting very close to it. We start ofT at the beginning of pre­season a new group of guys, then I look at every game, we should become more and more of a unit ... we always say that every game were going to improve a little bit every game." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
tion games for the Irish, who bat­tled New Mexico to a 1-1 double­overtime decision last Monday. 
However, a pass from fresh­man Matt Besler would give the lot of problems throughout." 

Last year, the Irish struggled on offense, but return a number of talented and experienced play­ers. In addition, Clark has 
·golden goal to Etherington and the win to the "I don't think we're Irish. 
a team yet but 
"I thought the 
we're getting very 
wide midfielders -both Nate and close to it. " Ian -both did very well," Clark 
Bobby Clark 
said. "Both scored 
Irish coach
excellent goals and you know, carried the play 

encouraged full­backs to get involved in the scoring-Ryan Miller, the right back, scored the team's lone goal against New Mexico-and knows that his out­side midfielders can score from deep·and penetrate 
and were threatening throughout the opponent's defense. the game. These were the play­"Any good team has got to ers that were causing Michigan a have good [midfielders]," Clark 


Make a difference ... 
+ TUTOR :\Ion & Wed 
or Tues & Timrs, 3:30-4:30 01 4:30-5:30pm 
+ \\'ork Studv and 
Volunteer positions :a\'llililble 
t Tb.re.e different tutoring sites in the commu.rritt 
t Tutor training the week of Sept. 5-9 
+ Transpormtion 
proYided FREE b~­Tra.nspo Bus 7 
ROBINSON COMMUNITY 

-
LEARNING CENTER 
921 North Eddy Street 
South Bend. IN 46617 

Contact Kim Croy Volunteer Coordinator at: Phone: 631-9427 Email: kim.croy.l@nd.edu 



Celebrating Learning... One Relationship at a time! 
.... 
Tutor a child 


Monday, August 29, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 37 The woman of 60 Word said 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: LeAnn Rimes, 23; Jason Priestley, Lennon's before opening 36; Billy Boyd, 37; Emma Samms, 45
1 Swine "Woman" the eyes
5 "Money_ 
Happy Birthday: A host of opportunities will come your way this year, and yo1
everything" 38 Dik Browne's 61 Cain's victim 
must be prepared to take advantage. A chance to prove yourself" or do somethin! 9 Northern "Hi and 62 & 63 First two that you will be remembered fi:Jr is in the stars. Think about what you can do 1~1 Scandinavians names of Guy others--your gesture will bring you rewards. Your numbers arc R, 17, IR, 2R,
39 Strikingly bright 

de Maupassant 32,4514 Toward shelter, 40 Habeas corpus, 
nautically 64 Inlet 
e.g. ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Do whatever is necessary to settle linancial anl 15 Burn the 65 Advances of emotional differences. You will he surprised how much you can resolve if you
41 Make a boo-boo

surface of money are open and honest. Today is about compromise. **** 16 Devoured 42 2005 Christo 66 Conclusions TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Do your best to get things done around home. display in New The more you do to improve your own attitude, the better you will f"ecl. Prcpan
quickly 67 Looks at 
to say no to someone who is continually asking li.1r f"avors. •••
York City, with17 Soft light 

GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): Today will be your kind of day--li.ill ofactivit}
"the"

18 Give new decor and socializing. Prepare to make quick decisions so you can pack as much into
DOWN 19 Desmond of 
43 Social class your busy schedule as possible. •••
1 Dik Browne's 

CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Work behind the scenes, avoiding the people wh1
"Sunset Blvd." 44 Got quiet, with the 
tend to upset you. Just when you think you know how things arc going, somethin! 
20 Lungful "down" Horrible" 
will change. Don't count on anything or anyone. •• • 21 1976 Hoffman/ 46 Take back, as 2 Stan's partner LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make a difference just by lending a helping Olivier film one's story hand or by listening to others' concerns. Your insight and knowledge will help
in old comedy 

you find solutions and, in turn, feel good about yourself: •• • • 
23 Music from 48 Draft status 3 Title song of a 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't let things get you down. Retlect on the past 
Jamaica 1966 hit movie 
but don't be critical of your choices. Look at today as a new beginning and 
50 Hold back 

25 Dover fish 4 Darn, as socks prepare to start again. •• 26 Coward's color 53 Character who LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your interest in other people and different culture: 
5 Tel Aviv's land

debuted in All will open your mind to new and exciting ideas. Take part in community events
29 Portugal's 
Star Comics, 6 Prophet Love is looking good, so leave some time for romance. Contact someone trom
capital 
December 1941 7 Nothin' your past. ••••• 33 It may be acute SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A home improvement project may benefit you 
58 August 1 sign 8 Brings (out) 

or obtuse 34 Nick Charles's 45 One of the M's 53 Actor Ken of in starting a business. Property deals are looking good, but don't spend more thru 35 Master hand 59 April 1 sign 9 Lipstick wife in MoMA TV's "Wiseguy" you can rightfully afford. • ** ingredient SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Your ideas and your take-charge personal it~ 36 Workshop 47 Construction 54 Creme cookie will bring about some favorable results today--ones that could turn out to be
1 0 Makes up (for) ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

gripper site machines quite prosperous. Everything is possible if you have a positive attitude and a 
r,-,~~:-:-r:::-r.-:-r-::,.._~"1":":"1....,-=-r-:-T:-:-r:=-"1 11 Salon job, 55 Ship of good work ethic. *** 
39 Darth of 49 Cognizant

informally Columbus CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Put the past behind you. Your greatest reveng<
"Star Wars" 

12 Cougar 51 Christopher of will be your own success. Your ability to talk circles around your peers will als<
56 What a prophet

40 Kind of ad "Superman" bring you satisfaction and greater sell~esteem. •••
13 Bridge reads 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): Think about your future and what you can do
42 Book before 

~~-=-t-::i-1 21 Stag party 52 Bob and 57 Darn, as socks to make it positive and bright. You have everything going for you today, so sel
Exodus
attender Elizabeth of 

your goals and you will be successful. •• ••• 22 _ up (hid out) 43 Normandy city politics 61 High card PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take things one step at a time. lfyou let someon< upset you, it will be difficult to make the right choices. Overindulgence is not
24 Hair goops 

the answer. Today should be about curbing your habits, not giving in to them. 
-:M-=+-=+-:+::+~~ 27 Fail to mention For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
** 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554.
28 Be unsteady 

Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday Birthday Baby: You are a peacemaker and a doer. You know your limitations 
30 Brendan Behan 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. and you continue to push to surpass your wildest dreams. You are perceptivebook and can manipulate a situation in order to make things right. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 H~::=+:::~Bi-::+±=+=*Bi-7+-=+:::-t 31 Step _ (hurry) past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com.forfun, eugenialast.comjor cm1fidential consultation. 
32 Observe Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 

1-:::-i-:-t-::-t-=+-:-:t-::+;:-t.lllll-:::+.:::+:::+:=:r.-+:-+:-rl 33 Actor Guinn ess 
solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 

JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
0>\ I 'v'/CULDN',­'fOU. 1-1\<..E.Tb 
'4<-NO'v>/ 


JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
FLUTA 
I I I 
CCl2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DROAH 
I I ItSELING j

J r I ·I
1 www.jumble.com 
RUMABI j 
, I Jumbles: 
Yesterdays Answer: 

JOKER INLET ABOUND STOLID Spending hours looking through a telescope gave the astronomer a-"DISTANT" LOOK 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrion 

WHY THE: BRIDE DIDN'T WANT A TRAIN ON HER WEDDING GOWN. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS

Monday, August 29, 2005 page 24 
NO VoLLEYBALL 

Cleaning house 
Notre Dame sweeps Michigan in season opener 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 

The leprechaun worked up a sweat. The men's swim team stripped and did push-ups in the Joyce Center stands. And Lauren Kelbley and Lauren Brewster pounded 15 kills apiece to lead the Irish. 
Tradition holds that the swimmers wear 30 pieces of clothing. For every Irish point, they shed one item until they reach the 30th -the Speedo. 
Saturday night, the Irish saw the Speedos -three times. 
In the first match of the 2005 season, Notre Dame defeated Michigan in straight games, 30-24, 30-16, 30-26, before 1,574 fans at the Joyce Center. 
"Obviously, [we're] very excited to have the win," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "For the first game, I think 
Notre Dame's Carolyn Cooper, left, reaches to block a spike by Michigan's Lyndsay Miller during see HOtJSE/page 22 the 30-24, 30-16, 30-26 Irish sweep of the Wolverines Saturday at the Joyce Center. 

NO MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish snag OTwin overUM 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Exhibition games might not count for much in a team's final record. 
But as the No. 19/16 Irish work towards becoming a unit, a road win at Michigan is a solid final step of the pre­season. 
Ian Etherington's goal in the 94th minute gave the Irish a 2-1 win over the rival Wolverines. The game was Notre Dame's last of the 2005 exhibition season and also their first road match. 
"We forced the game even though we were playing away from Alumni Field," said coach Bobby Clark. "Our team was still looking to win [in overtime] and I thought we were always the team that was going to win the 
see IRISH/page 22 
NO WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish smoke field in Classic 

Hanks tallies seven goals as team wins pair of matchups 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 

Looking to start Notre Dame's national championship defense on the right foot, second-semes­ter freshman Kerri Hanks and senior forward Katie Thorlak­son led the Irish to an 11-1 victory See Also over New 
HamPs hire "Tough to get by 
Friday in the goalie Bohn" 

first of two 
page20

weekend games of the Nike Classic at the University of Vermont. 
Hanks became just the second player in school history to score three goals in her first regular­season game with the team. Seven minutes into the second half, she netted her third goal in just over 13 minutes of play­ing time to complete the natural hat trick. 
"Its not something you can 

-

expect week in and week out," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said of Hanks' feat, but "these are the things we saw in her [in the recruiting process] ... and expected Kerri to do for us from time to time." 
Her final two goals were assisted by Thorlakson, who compiled eight points on the night. 
"[Hanks] is just a lot like Katie Thorlakson in that they have a great sense for the game," Waldrum said. 
"She got put in some great positions for a couple of her goals [by] her teammates, ... and she is great at putting her­self in the right position at the right time." 
Thorlakson scored twice and added four assists for her third career eight-plus point per­formance. 
Her first goal came at the 
12:45 mark of the first half, giv­ing the Irish a 1-0 lead to open 
see CLASSIC/page 20 
FooTBALL 

Depth chart release spotlights surprises 
Wooden to start at cornerback; Grimes set to return punts 
By MATT PUGLISI Associate Sports Editor 

Anticipation for Saturday's season opener at Pittsburgh is beginning io peak. But the speculation surrounding who will start against the Panthers died Sunday when Irish c o a c h Charlie Weis released Notre Dame's depth chart. 
With 10 of 11 starters returning on offense, most holes were already filled heading into training camp. And while Brady Quinn will still be under center, Darius Walker in the backfield and Maurice Stovall and Rhema McKnight at wide receiver positions "X" and "Z," respectively, We is did have a few tricks up his sleeve. 

Arguably the most surpris­ing change is Weis' intention to rotate four players -Dan Santucci, John Sullivan, Bob Morton and Dan Stevenson ­at the three inside offensive line spots: left guard, center and right guard. 
"We think that we have four guys that can start on the interior on the offensive line," Weis said. "If you didn't have confidence that you have four guys that you could play, you would only play three. The benefit of that, you end up keeping them fresh. 
"You will see in the game against Pittsburgh all four of those guys playing in those three spots." 
While he's willing to move players around the middle of the line, Weis doesn't antici­pate doing the same with left tackle Ryan Harris and right tackle Mark Levoir. 
see DEPTH/page ~9 


ND WOMEN'S SOCCER  ND WOMEN'S BBAll  PGA  NFL  MlB  MLS  
IU c.) z ::5 =  Erika Bohn anchors the No. 1 Irish in her fourth year minding the net.  Megan Duffy leads Team USA to a gold medal in the World University Games.  Brad Faxon wins the Buick Invitational by finishing at 14 under par.  Bears promote former Purdue star Kyle Orton to starting quarterback.  Dodgers 1 Astros 0 Astros shut out for eighth time with Roger  Athletics 10 Orioles 3 Athletics stay hot with rout of team in  
cc  Clemens on the mound.  downward spiral.  
~  page 20  page 19  page 18  page 17  page 15  page 14  


2005-2006 SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES IN THE SouTH BEND AREA AN INSERT TO THE OBSERVER 
An Invitation to Serve Your Local Community 
T
he Center for Social Concerns invites you to push the boundaries of your classroom into the neighborhoods of South Bend and beyond. Come and enter the lives of those who live and study and work there. Indeed, consider the ways that you might begin to be a part of the world's transformation. 
Through the years, thousands of students have taken part in the numerous opportunities otTered through the Center for Social Concerns and our many partners. Each student has made an important ditTerence. 


Fr. Bill Lies, C.S. C. Often this service involvement, and 
remains no less our challenge and the learning that comes through call. It is the foundation on which 

and with it, transforms you. In we will build the justice we seek turn, this transformation allows and the peace for which we long.
each of you to be impressive agents of transformation and/or goodness Be a part of the transformation within others' lives. This is seen to which we are called, and be within our community long after transformed. Give yourself away.
your time at Notre Dame, Saint One or more of the opportunities Mary's and Holy Cross College. 
on these pages could quite possibly change you forever. 

Jesus called love the greatest of all commandments-to love the Lord God with all our hearts and to love our neighbor as ourselves (Mark 
12: 28-31). It is not easy but it 


Where Do You Start? Answers to Your·Frequendy Asked Service Questions 

gencies in South Bend 
depend on Notre Dame 

tudents as volunteers and greatly appreciate their time, energy and enthusiasm. Working with a large number of volunteers, especially groups doing one-time projects, takes a considerable amount of planning and effort on behalf of the agencies. Below are some FAQs about finding a service placement in South Bend. 
How do I pick an agency? 
Decide on an organization that will fit your schedule, your goals, and your interests. Consider a placement that might complement your educational goals. The Center for Social Concerns has a great deal of information to assist you in making your decision, so please stop by the CSC. Once you've decided upon an organization, call the volunteer coordinator at the agency. He/she can provide you 
with contact information so you can set up a time to meet. 
How do I plan a project for a large group? 
Ifyou are planning a project for a large group, be certain there is interest in the project before contacting the agency and committing to a project. Check with the agency to determine if they can support a large group of volunteers for a one-time project. Be as specific as possible in terms ()f dates, number ofvolunteers, hopes for the project, etc. 
I left a message, but no one has returned my call. Why not? 
Please keep in mind that many service agencies are understaffed and may not always return phone calls promptly. You may need to call several times, so don't get discouraged. 
Continued on Page 4 

Variety of Service Opportunities Available 

Addictions Life Treatment Centers 
Adult Literacy Center for Basic Learning Skills Literacy Council ofSt.Joseph County South Bend Community Schools 
-Adult Education Program 
Adult-older Cardinal Nursing Center Milton Home Portage Manor REAL Services 
Children & Youth Ark Angels, Inc. Big Brothers Big Sisters Big Brothers & Big Sisters ofND/ 
SMC Boys and Girls Club ND/SMC Campus Girl Scouts Casie Center Charles Martin Youth Center Children's Defense Fund Circle K Notre Dame Circle of Mercy Domers Mentoring Kids El Campito Day Care Center Family and Children's Center Home Management Resources Hugh O'Brian Youth Foundation 
Alumni Association (ND HOBY) Irish Fighting for S. Judes Kids Junior Menral Health Association Lead ND ND/SMC Lunch P.A.C.K. Madison Center Ms. Wizard Day Program Team Neighborhood Study Help Program Robinson Community Learning 
Center Slice of Life ND South Bend Juvenile Correctional 
Facility Southgate Dream Center St. Hedwig's Outreach Center There Are Children Here Teamwork for Tomorrow University Young Life 

West Side Neighborhood Partnership Center Youth Services Bureau 
Criminal Justice Amnesty International Indiana Legal Services Michiana Dismas House United Religious Community 
Cultural Issues Broadway Christian Parish Community Alliance to Serve 
Hispanics (CASH) La Casa de Amistad 
Disability Services Best Buddies Chiara Home Corvilla, Inc. Council for Fun and Learning Logan Center ND/SMC Logan Club Reins of Life Special Friends Club SuperSibs 
Environment ND for Animals Net Impact Students for Environmental Action 
(SEA) 
Housing/Homelessness Center for the Homeless ND/SMC Center for the Homeless 
Children's Group 
Notre Dame Habitat for Humanity Hope Rescue Mission St. Margaret's House St. Vincent de Paul Salvation Army South Bend Heritage Foundation 
Hunger Concerns Foodbank of Northern Indiana Foodshare World Hunger Coalition 
Medical AIDS Awareness AIDS Ministries/ AIDS assist American Cancer Society American Red Cross Chapin Street Clinic (St. Joseph's Health Center) ND First Aid Services Team Healthwin Specialized Care Helpful Undergraduate Students (HUGS) Harbor Light Hospice Hospice ofSt. Joseph County, Inc. Operation Smile -Student Organization SourhernCare Hospice 
St. Joseph's Chapin Street Health Center Volunteers 
Multi-Service Groups Alliance to Lead and Serve (ATLAS) Arnold Air Society Catholic Charities College Football Hall of Fame Experiential Learning Council Knights of Columbus Council 1477 Muscular Dystrophy Association Northern Indiana Center for History Potawatomi Zoo Silver Wings (Benjamin D. Foulois Chapter) Srudents for Organ Donation of Notre Dame Trident Naval Society Twenty-First Century Scholars 
Peace and Justice Issues Africa Faith and Justice Network Amnesty International Peace Fellowship Progressive Student Alliance N?tre Dame Right ro Life 
Women's Concerns Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (CARE) Sex Offense Services (SOS) Women's Care Center 
Women In Social Service and Health YWCA Women's Shelter 
Rooted in the Gospel and Catholic tradition, the Center for Social Concerns ofthe University ofNotre Dame creates formative educational and service experiences in collaboration with diverse partners, calling us to action for a more just and humane world. -Centerfor Social Concerns Mission Statement 
PAGE2 The Guide to Community Service 
SERVICE & SociAL AcTION GRouPs 
Africa Faith and Justice Network The Africa Faith and Justice Network of Notre Dame (AFJN­ND] is an organization devoted to education and advocacy on behalf of justice for Africa on the campuses of the University of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College, and Holy Cross College. AFJN-ND is also committed to collaborating in the task of transforming United States policy on Africa in light of Catholic social teaching. AFJN-ND is a university chapter of the Africa Faith and Justice Network with headquarters in Washington, DC. In its first year AFJN sponsored Africa week, raising money and awareness about African issues, and will build upon the success ofAfrica week this coming year. Student Contact: Laura Feeney at /feeney@nd.edu 
AIDS Awareness AIDS Awareness aims to provide a forum for discussion about the disease, increase awareness on-campus, serve those living in the Notre Dame and outside community living with AIDS, and assist in fundraising efforts to find a cure for the disease. We work with AIDS Assist/ AIDS Ministry of South Bend and participate in an AIDS Walk in the fall. In addition, members of AIDS Awareness have the opportunity to assist those living with AIDS and work on campus wide campaigns to raise awareness on World AIDS Day. Student Contact: Laura Cojino at lconjino@nd.edu 
Alliance to Lead and Serve (ATLAS) ATlAS is a community service organization composed of civilian and military students and takes a leadership development approach to volunteerism. Students are encouraged ro envision and cultivate their own community service projects, many of which are focused on the local military community, deployed soldiers, or local youth. ATlAS helps students grow as leaders and as socially conscious community members. Student Contact: Margaret Lero at mlero@nd.edu 
American Cancer Society Volunteers organize on-campus awareness raising and fund­raising events. Student Contact: Kelly Stephan at kstephal @nd.edu 
Amnesty International Notre Dame Amnesty International is a worldwide movement of people who campaign for internationally recognized human rights. In pursuit of this vision, AI's mission is to undertake research and action focused on preventing and ending grave abuses of the rights to physical and mental integrity, freedom of conscience and expression, and freedom from discrimination, within the context of its work to promote all human rights. Notre Dame's chapter has worked in recent years ro raise awareness among students of the abuse of women, the genocide in Sudan, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the War on Terror, and the death penalty. Meetings are held once a week and are student run. Student Contact: Laura Vilim at lvilim@nd.edu or visit www. nd. edu!~peace 
Arnold Air Society Arnold Air Society is a social service group which is a part of AFROTC. It's our mission to foster a better relationship between the military and the campus and South Bend community through service. Student Contact: Matthew Dvorsky at mdvorsky@nd.edu or visit www. nd. edul~ aas/ 
Best Buddies Club members develop relationships with people with mental retardation and other developmental disabilities by going ro movies, sporting events, concerts, and by participating together in recreational events. Student Contact: Kathleen Roblez at kroblez@nd.edu or visit http://www. nd. edul~ bbuddies 
Big Brothers & Big Sisters OF ND/SMC Volunteers provide shared time and friendship with a child. Student Contact: Shane Kappler at skappler@nd.edu 
Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (C.A.R.E.) CARE is an activist group that speaks out to put an end ro sexual victimization on campus and in the wider community. The group helps facilitate information and prevention sessions on sexual assault in male and female dorms, as well as conduct awareness events and weeks throughout the year. The group also refers survivors of rape to the appropriate resource. (However, CARE does ·not organize sexual assault support groups). Student Contact: Kaitlyn Redfield@ kredjiel@nd.edu 
Campus Girl Scouts, Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Campus Girl Scouts are registered adult girl scouts with the Singing Sands Council in South Bend. In the fall we do various service projects for campus and the community. In the spring we volunteer with local girl scouts. We help with cookie booth sales, run badge various troops, and host a lock-in on campus in one of the women's dorms. Student Contact: Kerry Kilbourn at kkilbour@nd.edu 
Children's Defense Fund CDF-ND is a campus branch of the National Children's Defense Fund in Washington, DC. Our mission is ro inform, educate and motivate the students of Notre Dame. Currently, we are working in four basic areas: SPROUT, the Student Poverty Reduction Outreach; a lecture series; publicity; and community engagement and outreach. Student Contact: jessica Collado @ jcollado@nd. edu or visit http://www. nd.edulcdf 
ND/SMC Center for the Homeless Children's Group Volunteers spend time once a week with the children who live ~t the CFH. Volunteers might tutor, organize field trips and plan art & craft activities. Student Contact: Caitlin Rohn at crohn@nd.edu or visit http://www. nd. edu!~ hscgl 
Circle K Notre Dame Join this service club that offers 21 weekly projects with transportation that will satisfY anyone's volunteer desires. By performing 7,000+ hours of service each year, offering over 50 leadership positions, and 800 students participating every year, Circle K was voted Club of the Year 200 1-2002! Weekly meetings: Sunday at 5:00pm in the Library auditorium. Student Contact: Elizabeth Mims at emims@nd.edu or visit http:!/ www. nd. edul~ circlekl 
Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics (CASH) Volunteers assist South Bend's Hispanic community through service activities, educ<ttional programs, and awareness projects. Student Contact: Alissa Verney at averney@nd.edu or visit http://www. nd. edul~cash/ 
Domers Mentoring Kids Student Contact: Laura German at lgerman@nd.edu 

Experiential Learning Council The Experiential Learning Council provides resources and support for the continuation and expansion of community-based learning in South Bend during the school term as well as on fall, winter, and spring break seminars. Student Contact: Felipe Witchger at witchger.2@nd.edu. Email the ELC at elc@nd.edu or visit http:llwww.nd.edu/elcl 
ND First Aid Services Team Volunteers provide coverage for inter-hall sports, concerts, home football games, AnTostal, Keenan Review, campus runs, and any other ND/SMC activity that requests the team's service. Student Student Contact: Michael Ude at mude@nd.edu or visit http://www. nd. edul~fast! 
Foodshare Foodshare is a volunteer organization that ensures leftover food from North Dining Hall is not wasted and the needs of South Bend residents are fulfilled. Every Sunday through Thursday students collect any unneeded food from North Dining Hall and deliver it to the Hope Rescue Mission in downtown South Bend. In addition to delivering food, members of Foodshare have the opportunity serve meals at the Center for the Homeless. Student Contact: Mariah Quinn atfoodshar@nd.edu 
Habitat for Humanity Volunteers are needed ro work on construction crews, donate materials, help fundraising, and interact with our partner family. Help us build a home in partnership with a local family in need! Student Contact: Ryan Iafigliola at riafigli@nd.edu or visit http://www. nd. edu/~habitat! 
Helpful Undergraduate Students (H.U.G.S.) HUGS volunteers provide 2 hours biweekly time with children at Memorial Hospital in South Bend. Physician-shadowing opportunities are offered ro students after 10 hours of service. Student Contact: jenny Sarna atjsarna@nd. edu 
Hugh O'Brian Youth Foundation Alumni Association (ND HOBY) ND HOBY provides a forum for HOBY alumni at Notre Dame to continue developing their leadership .through service and social action activities. Student Contact: Katherine Doyle at kdoyle3@nd.edu or visit http://www. nd. edul~ ndhobyl 
Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids dedicates itself to year-round fundraising activities in support of St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, TN. The hospital is one of the world's premier centers for research and treatment .of catastrophic diseases in children, primarily pediatric cancers. Student Contact: Stephanie Smith @ ssmith6@nd.edu or visit http://www. nd. edu/~ stjude 
Knights ofColumbus Council1477 Volunteers help to raise funds in order to support various service and social action facilities in the area. Student Contact: Ed Medrick @ emedrick@nd.edu or visit http://www. nd. edul~knights! 
Lead-NO The Lead-ND ourreach organization works to promote the voice of traditionally overlooked and under-resourced young people in South Bend. Volunteers work with local youth weekly to facilitate an after-school leadership development and community action program. Responsibilities include lesson planning, mentoring, and leading small-group activities and discussions. Student Contact: Steven Cartwright@ leadnd@nd.edu or visit http://www. nd. edul~ leadnd 
Logan Recreation Club Students volunteer for Friday night bowling, Friclay night dances, and Saturday recreation with people from the community with mental disabilities. Student Contact: Meg Spring at mspring@nd.edu or visit htttp:llwww.logancenter. org/Volunteers/Activities.cfm 
Ms. Wizard Day Program Team Volunteers organize a one-day science fair in February for young women in middle school. Student Contact: Mary Jentz at mjentz@nd.edu or visit http://www. nd. edul~ mswizardl 
Facilities Available For Students' Use 

H
ospitality is an important part of the Center for Social Concern's work on campus. Center hospitality includes a coffeehouse (shown above) and kitchen, a large multi-purpose room, seminar rooms, and a reflection room. These facilities are available for use by approved student and community groups. Contact the Center at 631-5293 to reserve rooms for lectures, films, liturgies, meals, other gatherings, and to inquire about the new policies surrounding vehicle use. 
ND for Animals ND for Animals promotes a compassionate, cruelty-free lifestyle. Members volunteer at animal shelters , hold demonstrations, and organize events to promote awareness. Student Contact: Phil Hudelson at whudelso@nd.edu or visit http://www. nd. edu!~animals 
Neighborhood Study Help Program Volunteers tutor at a variety of centers twice a week for a one to two hour period each time. Student Contact: Katie johnson at kjohnso9@nd.edu 
Operation Smile Student Organization Volunteers work with Operation Smile International fundraising to provide reconstructive surgery to children around the world. Student contact: Katy Conroy at kconroy@nd.edu or visit http://www. nd. edu!~ opsmile! 
Peace Fellowship Peace Fellowship is dedicated to prayer, Gospel non-violence, and social awareness. It educates and promotes issues related to peace and justice around the world. Student Contact: Catherine Herman at cherman@nd.edu or visit http://www. nd. edu/~ paxchrisl 
Progressive Student Alliance PSA works for social justice by organizing around issues of interest to create change, working with other people and groups on both a local and global level. Recent focuses have been economic injustices, student power, and rights for all. Student Contact: Molly Hayes at mhayesl @nd.edu or visit http://www. nd. edu!~psal 
St. Joseph's Chapin Street Health Center Volunteers Volunteers are needed to help serve the indigent population in the South Bend Commonty. Student Contact: Debbie Scrafford at dscraffo@nd.edu 
Slice of Ufe ND Student Contact: Brigitte Thomas at bthomas4@nd.edu 
Silver Wings (Benjamin D. Foulois Chapter) Student Contact: Ellen Riley at wale4775@saintmarys.edu 
Special Friends Club of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Volunteers work with autistic children in the South Bend community on a structured educational program in a home situation. Time commitment is 2-4 hours per week. No experience is necessary to be a "Special Friend." Student Contact: Megan Guslojf and Elaine Kamykowski at sfriends@nd. edu 
Students for Environmental Action (SEA) Volunteers promote awareness of environmental issues amongst the student body and the South Bend community. Srudem Contact: Nichole Mitchell@ nmitche4@nd.edu or visit http://www. nd. edul~seal 
Students for Organ Donation of Notre Dame Studem Contact: Shane Kappler ankappler@nd.edu 
Super Sibs All club members have siblings with disabilities. College sibs mentor children (8-14 yrs. of age) who also have a sibling with a disability. Bimonthly activities include bowling, skating, holiday parties, and pizza and chat sessions. Student Contact: Michael Coogan at mcoogan@nd.edu or visit 
http://www.nd.edul~supersib/ 
Sustained Dialogue at Notre Dame (SD) is a systematic, gradual process used to establishrelationships between conflicting groups by opening lines of communication and questioning 
Continued on page 4 

The Guide to Community Service 
PAGE 3
The Guide to Community Service 

CoMMUNITY PARTNER AGENCIES 
AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist Volunteers provide one-on-one companionship, support, advocacy and assistance with navigating systems of care for individuals/families who are living with HIV; general office support, establish and maintain databases, assist with mailings, newsletter production; assist in educaring the community. Contact: Community-Based Learning Coordinator,Debra 
Strmleyat 234-2870 ext 1151. 
American Red Cross Community Volunteer Services plans, programs, recruits, trains and places volunteers to meet community needs through community education and emergency services. Contact: jeannette Simon at 234-0191 ext. 21. 
Ark Angels, Inc. Volunteers tlltnr youth in age-appropriate and manageable groups and also are encouraged to bring their own passion or interest area into the enrichment structure. Volunteers can help with special teen leadership groups on the weekends and with advanced learning opportunities. Contact: Ron King at 233-5940 or 287-3503. 
Big Brothers Big Sisters In the one-to-one Program, a volunteer is matched with a child and they build their friendship through doing activities together in the community. Our School Mentor Program requires one hour once a week after school. Contact: Deborah Burrow at 232-9958. 
Boys & Girls Clubs of St. Joseph County The volunteers work directly with the members of the Club assisting in the daily activities that take place including tutoring and recreation. Contact: Dawn Woodr at 232-2048. 
Broadway Christian Parish We invite volunteers to help with the following: Sunday community meals, light maintenance and repairs, clothes closet, hospitality room, laundry service supervision, office work, tmoring programs for Liberian refugees, the Jubilee Christmas (various activities), the Summer Arts Program for Children, and weeding and planting flowers in the Peace garden. Contact: Anne Kumeh at 289-0333. 
Cardinal Nursing and Rehabilitation Center Volunteers are needed to visit clients on a one-to-one basis and organize evenings of bingo. Contact: Beverly Shamberg at 287-6501. 
CASIE Center CASIE Center provides services for abused and neglected children. Volunteers assist staff with routine duties and special projects that benefit the children and their families. Organized drives arc also needed for snacks and blank video tapes. Contact: Caron Marnocha at 282-1414. 
Catholic Charities Catholic Charities offers various programs to assist those in need through helping with the food pantry, coordinating food drives, assisting refugee and immigrant families, working in Spanish translation services, and assisting with office work. Contact: Rob Ercoline at 234-3111 or rercoline@ccjivsb.org 
Center for Basic Learning Skills Volunteers ruror adults working toward their GED for rwo hours a week. Hours: 8am-12pm M-F. Contact: Sister Marita Stoffil at 259-5427 (between 4-9 p.m.). 
Center for the Homeless Volunteers are able to assist with children's and adult activities, children's and adult tutoring, serving meals, chapel services, exercise programs, special events, and the front desk. They are also able to assist in the Montessori classroom, with the donation room, and with both the teen and adult leadership programs. Contact: Community-Based Learning Coordinator Adam Kronk at 282-8700. 
Chapin Street Clinic (St. Joseph Health Center) Volunteers work in one of three medical clinics that provide services to low-income adults and families. Volunteers will perform clerical duties, take back patients, follow doctors, and any 01her service that the center is in need of medical assistance. Spaces are limited. Contact: Community-Based Learning Coordinator Michelle Peters at 239-5299. 
Charles Martin Youth Center Volunteers needed for after school programs, computer skills training for kids, tutoring in math and reading, helping with various art classes, conflict resolution programs, and to help clean-up grounds and inside of building. Contact: Gladys Muhammad at 280-7092. 
Chiara Home Chiara Home provides temporary out-of-home respite care for people with special needs. Volunteers needed to assist with personal care of guests (i.e. feeding, entertaining, companioning, cooking meals) and with routine duties, special projects and activities.(Chiara is on a local bus line from NO campus). Contact: Sr. Gretchen at 287-5435. 
Circle of Mercy Circle of Mercy works through Catholic Charities to serve families with parents who work or are in school to provide quality child care. Volunteers work with children in classroom settings to enhance educational experiences. Any skills or special interests volunteers possess to benefit children's development are appreciated. Assistance in cleaning or refurbishing the facility is appreciated. Contact: Sue judge at 287-0500. 
College Football HaJJ of Fame Guest Services-Orienteer, Greeter, Ed Program, Team Building Facilitator--Administrative Services-Staff support-Special Events-Technical Services-Skilled work and Data Entry--­Phone banking for events and more. Contact: jim Baumgartner at 235-5709. 
Corvilla, Inc. Volunteers help with resident (FUN) activities like bowling, dances, arts & crafts, picnics, hay rides, cookouts and movies. Volunteers also help with the web site, developing brochures and helping with fundraising events like Snowball Softball, Glow In The Dark volleyball and a Howi-0-Wee·n Blues Bash. Contact: Diana Do/de at 289-9779 or ddolde@corvilla.org. 
El Campito Day Care Center El Campi to's mission is "to promote the educational, social and economic success of culturally diverse children and their families by providing quality programs and their services to those most in need" {for ages 3-5). There are many volunteer opportunities with our child care, parent education and preschool programs, classroom assistance, evening child care supervision during parent meetings, office assistance, building maintenance projects, bi-lingual opportunities, and grant writing assistance. Contact Rosa Rickman at 232-0220 or elcampito@netnitco.net 
Family and Children's Center Join the Family Partners Program to take a child to your place of worship or become a sponsor ifyou can give 3-4 hours per month sharing activities with a child. Contact: Doug Brown at 259-5666, ext. 256 For intern opportunities in marketing and resource development Contact: Community-Based Learning Coordinator Kregg Vtm Meter at 259-5666, ext. 232. 
Food Bank of Northern Indiana Salvage/Reclamation-Sorting, separating, and organizing food products that are canned, boxed or bottled, Pantry Reception/ Stocker-Stocks the pantry shelves and assists customers with their shopping. Special Events-Letter Carrier Food Drive, Crop-Walk, National Make a Difference Day, U93 Giving Tree. Contact: Robin Fuller at 232-9986. 
Harbor Light Hospice Volunteers provide companionship, spiritual support, music therapy, bereavement services, and administrative support to the patients and their families. They also make crafts and bake favorite foods for the patients. Contact: Lynn Smith at 232-5501. 
HeaJthwin Specialized Care Volunteers work one on one with our residents, reading, socializing, spending time outdoors, pushing residents to and from activities, and assisting the Activity Staff with group activities or outings into the community. Contact: Karen Martindale at 272-0100, ext. 204. 
Home Management Resources, Inc. Volunteer positions exist in childcare, clerical/receptionist work, and computer technology. Occasional help is needed for mailings. Other positions vary from weekly positions to 4-10 once a week commitments rwice during the year (semester basis). Contact: Elena Flynn at 233-3486. 
Hope Rescue Mission Volunteers needed for cleaning, painting, construction, preparing and serving meals, chapel service, tutoring, mentoring, counseling, clerical, teaching classes, and assisting with addiction programs. Contact: Don Bloore at 235-4150, ext. 231. 
Hospice ofSt. Joseph County Volunteers provide respite care for terminally ill patients and their families. Contact: jackie Boynton at 243-3127 
Indiana Legal Services Volunteers serve as Intake Workers to assist potential clients with the application process and summarize legal problems for staff attorney review:ILS is funded to provide free legal representation to low income persons in civil matters. Contact: 
Heather Mezosi at 234-8121. 

La Casa de Amistad Inc. Be seen as a big brother or sister by assisting students with school work. Help to provide students with a positive look at the future through education and self respect to improve their way oflife. Contact: Olga Larimer at 233-2120. 
Life Treatment Centers, Inc. Volunteers work numerous areas of our treatment facility by assisting in staffing the residential and detoxification areas, kitchen help, clients follow up, tutoring, front desk staffing, maintenance assisting, chart breakdown, and assisting our group facilitators and administrative staff to assist persons with addictions to gambling, alcohol and chemical dependencies. Contact: Brenda Mast at 233.5433 ext. 205 
Literacy Council ofSt. Joseph County, Inc. Volunteers tutor adults in both basic reading and English as a Second Language. Requires a 6-month commitment. Contact: Brenda Green at 235-6229. 
Logan Center Volunteers assist children and adults with special needs. Activities include art, cooking, exercise and computer classes as well as one-to-one assistance in children's homes. Contact: Community-Based Learning Coordinator (574) 289­4831 or visit www.logancenter.org 
Michiana Dismas House Volunteering at Dismas House, a faith based prisoner reentry program, gi.ves students the opportunity to serve the broader community. It provides students with the framework to examine the complex issues of social and criminal justice. Volunteer cooks are needed to help prepare evening meals and dine with the residents Monday-Thursday, serve as mentors or tutors and help with home repairs or with special events. Other opportuniries include student residency, internships and work study positions. It is an excellent place to engage in service-learning. Contact Maria Kaczmarek at 233-8522. 
Milton Home Volunteers visit elderly residents on a one-to-one basis, assist with evening activities from 6:30-7:30 pm, and play table games with the residents on Sunday. Contact: Maria Krewson or Lou Ann Nebelung at 233-0165. 
Northern Indiana Center for History Volunteers serve as docents in the Oliver Mansion and the Worker's House; help at special events; serve as greeters in the front lobby at the Center for special events; digitize/scan photos in the Archives; help with mailings, help in the Museum Store; internships in the Education Department/Marketing. Contact: 
Deb Neumann at 235-9664. 

Portage Manor Volunteers needed to pay regular visits to individual residents who have no family. There are opportunities for students who do needle work. Group volunteer opportunities are also available. Contact: Toni Grisham·at 272-9100. 
Potawatomi Zoo The zoo in South Bend has many opportunities in all facets of zoo operation for students to volunteer or be interns. Located just 10 minutes from campus. Contact: jason jacobs at 288-4639. 
REAL Services Students can be matched on a one-to-one basis with clients who need companionship. A six month commitment is requested. Volunteers are also needed to assist elderly/disabled clients of REAL Services with one time assignments for outside yard work projects. Group volunteer opportunities are also available. Contact: Deb Leach at 284-2644, ext. 254. 
Reins of Life Volunteers act as horse leaders or side walkers for people with disabilities during therapeutic horseback riding classes (approx. 2 hours). There are also opportunities to help with special events and care for horses. Contact: Chris Flowers at 232-0853. 
Robinson Community Learning Center Volunteers typically work with srudents after school: reading to them, having them read our loud, having them write and do listening activities. Sessions are expected to last one hour, and volunteers are asked to come rwice a week, either M-W or T-Th. Contact Volunteer Coordinator at 631-8750. 
S-0-S of Madison Center S-0-S is the rape crisis center for St. Joseph County. After training, Volunteer Advocates sign up for one six-hour shift per week during which they agree to be reachable by phone in the event crisis intervention services are needed. Agency Contact: Mary Waggoner-at 283-1308. Emergency Contact: 24 hour crisis line 289-HELP (289-4357) 
Salvation Army Volunteers provide food for Thanksgiving, Christmas and Easter baskets for families in South Bend. Student volunteers can adopt a South Bend family through the Salvation Army. Help is also needed in the office and clothing intakes throughout the year. Contact Katrina at 233-9471. 
SBCSC Adult Education Department Volunteers work individually or in small groups with adulr students ( 16 years of age and older) who arc studying basic academic, job, and life skills, learning English as a second language (ESL), and/or preparing for the GED Exam. Contact: Gayle Silver at 283-7563. 
South Bend Heritage Foundation Volunteers are able to work in all facets of neighborhood revitalization. Also available are internships and course-based work in community development. Contact: Gladys Muhammad at 289-1066. 
South Bend Juvenile Correctional Facility The volunteers aid the students in tutoring the individuals one­on-one in their academic deficiencies. Contact: Tom Ferrara at 232-8808, ext. 369. 
Southern Care Hospice Volunteers needed to do everything from patient sitting while a care-giver gets out for a short while for a much-needed break, to bringing a rented movie and a bag of popcorn to share with a lonely elderly person in a nursing facility. They can work in the office filing, packets, shredding. Contact: 259-0895. 
Southgate Dream Center Volunteers work with at-risk youth on the south side of South Bend serving as mentors, tutors, and ambassadors of love. An ESL program also offers opportunities to work with the adult, Latino population in South Bend. Contact: Efrain Figueroa at 231-6008. 
Continued on page 4 
The Guide to Community Service PAGE4 CSC Guide to Community Service 

FAQ.. 
Continued from page 1 
What things do I need to talk about with the volunteer coordinator? 
When you meet with the volunteer coordinator or a designated supervisor, make sure to discuss the following points: 
• 
Explain your interest in choosing that particular organization, and explain that you would like a hands-on experience. 

• 
Make sure that you will receive orientation, training, and supervisiOn. 

• 
Reach an agreement on your schedule and type ofservice. 

• 
Know that if you are working with children or other vulnerable 


populations, the agency may do a background check. 
I'm sick and can't make it to the site. What do I do? 
• 
Remember that your commitment to an agency is very important. 

• 
Agencies really depend on volunteers, so be there when you say you will. 

• 
Make sure to call if you will be late or unable to attend due to sickness and arrange for an alternative time. 

• 
Make sure the agency is aware of when you will be away on break or unable to attend due to finals. 


If you have further questions, please stop by or call the CSC. Do a good job and enjoy the work you do! 
Community-Based Learning Sites 
Below are the different sites in South Bend where the CSC has partnered with Community-Based Learning Coordinators. They work closely with NO students and faculty to provide complete learning and service experiences at their sites. They are a wonderful resource to call with your questions. 
AIDS Ministries/AIDS Assist Debra Stanley, Consultant 234-2870 ext.1151 WuZuWuZu@aol.com http://www.aidsministries.org/ 
Boys & Girls Club ofSt. Joseph County Kregg Van Meter, Development Coordinator 259-5666, ext. 232 kvanmeter@bgcsjc.org 
http://www.bgcsjc.org 
Center for the Homeless Adam Kronk, Director, Volunteer Services & Community Education 282-8700 ext. 344 akronk@cfh.net http://www.cfh.net 
LOGAN Center Marissa Runkle, Volunteer Coordinator 289-4831, ext. 1043 marissar@logancenter.org http://www.logancenter.org 
Mendoza College of Business . Jessica McManus Warnell, Program Manager & Concurrent Instructor 631-9182 Jessica.McManus.l3@nd.edu http:I/www.ethicalbusiness.nd.edu/ 
Robinson Community Learning Center Marguerite Taylor, Adult Program Coordinator 631-9425 mtaylor43@juno.com http://www.nd.edu./~rclc 
Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center-Community Outreach Michelle Peters, Manager, Outreach Services 239-5299 petersmi@sjrmc.com http://www.sjmed.com 
Agencies ... 
Continued from page 3 
St. Margaret's House Volunteers can: cook and provide kitchen help, receptionist, tutoring, assist with donations, assist with food pantry, assist with art program, interact with children, interact with women, assist with clothes closet, miscellaneous jobs as needed. Contact: Kathy Schneider or Patricia Marvel at 234-7795. 

St. Joe's Regional Medical Center We invite pre-med students to consider being a part of the continuum of care of our patients. Students can choose from Emergency Room, Cardiac Care, Post Surgical, Medical/Renal, Oncology, Orthopedics, Rehab and Outpatient Pediatrics Therapy. Choose one 4 h~ur shift once a week for a semester. Uniform top will be provided and a tneal ticket. The medical center is less than 2 miles from the ND campus. Contact: Director ofVolunteer Services, Denise Kapsa, at 237-7242 or kapsad@sjrmc.com. 
St. Vincent DePaul Volunteers work in the thrift store to prepare used goods for sale and help with special projects at Christmas time. Anyone organizing a food or clothing drive can work through this grassroots organization. Contact: Joan Ash at 234-6211. 
Groups... 
Continued from page 2 
deep-rooted stereotypes. There will be a Kick-Off Retreat , then participants will be divided into smaller groups. Bimonthly open discussions will be held in the small groups to address various issues concerning diversity problems on Notre Dame's campus and on the global stage. SD fosters dynamic relationships among all people regardless of backgrounds and socioeconomic status. Student Contact: Anne Goodenow at dialogue@nd. edu 
Teamwork for Tomorrow Teamwork for Tomorrow is an after-school tutoring and mentoring program open to all ND and SMC students. Working one on one with their students two days a week Teamwork mentors are committed to brightening the lives of children in the South Bend area through improved reading, structured recreation, and purposeful mentoring. Teamwork operates three programs at two different sites in the South Bend Community. Programs run either Mon/Wed or Tues/Thurs. 
General Information about the CSC 
Hospitality: 
Hospitality is an important part of the Center's. presence on campus. We invite student, community and campus groups to use our coffeehouse, kitchen, multipurpose room and reflection rooms. Classes in a variety of disciplines also meet at the Center. All are welcome to come to host or attend hospitality lunches throughout the year which benefit community groups or student organization 
Center Hours 
Monday-Thursday 8 a.m. -10 p.m. Friday 8 a.m. -7 p.m. Saturday 10 a.m. -2 p.m. Sunday 6 p.m.-9 p.m. 
Transportation to Service Sites 
Recent Policy Changes: 

Risk Management's rules have changed, and students who have vehicles can now transport others to community service sites as long as those sites are within St. Joseph County. Therefore, if you have your own vehicle on campus, you are no longer able to rent vehicles from the esc. 
South Bend Transpo, in conjunction with Notre Dame and the Center for Social Concerns, has added most esc service sites to their routes in order to provide students with free There are Children Here (TACH) TACH has a 15 acre facility and hosts an after-school program M-F for about 20 children (ages 4-11) per day. Volunteers are needed to work with the children and to coordinate special projects. Contact: jim Langford at 299-8767. 

Twenty-First Century Scholars Volunteers assist with enrollment, mentoring, campus visits, service learning projects, clerical assistance, parental support and chaperoning activities. We can help to build a volunteer position to meet your schedule and interests. Contact: 
Anthony Bird at 1-888-603-5981, ext. 235. 

United Religious Community Volunteers needed to work on special projects, with the Victim Offender Reconciliation Program and with the Advocacy Centers where volunteers work one-on-one with community residents unable to meet basic needs: This is a good platform for service­learning in the area of psychology. Computer skills are also needed. A regular commitment is expected one day a week (M-F, 9-12). Contact: Carol Thon at 282-2397. 
West Side Neighborhood 
Partnership Center 
Work directly with youth tutoring, 
reading programs, sports and 
recreation, Conversational Spanish 
interactive/play learning programs, 
and with administrative support. 

Contact: juanetta Hill at 235-5800. 
The commitment is two hours a day 
two days a week and is for an entire year. Spanish speaking 
students are encouraged to apply. Student contact: Clare Murphy at 
cmurphy4@nd.edu or visits 
www. nd.edul~teamwork 

Trident Naval Society The group works to develop the professionalism and camaraderie among NROTC Midshipmen and ND students necessary to assume the highest levels of citizenship and command. Volunteers provide services such as assisting at the Logan Center, tutoring, and working with the elderly. Student Contact: Victoria Danielsky at vdaniels@nd.edu 
University Young Life The purpose ofYoung Life is reaching adolescent youth with the gospel ofJesus Christ. This club is committed to reaching out to high school students by acting as Christian role models, sharing our faith with them, and ministering to the needs of this age group. Student Contact: 
john Mospan atjmospan@nd.edu or visit www.nd.edul~y!J 

transportation to South Bend and Mishawaka community-service locations (including most private homes). If your destination is on the bus route, then you will no longer be able to rent vehicle through the CSC. Exceptions to the rule: students who run errands for an organization, students who transport individuals for an organization to an activity, and students who will be traveling outside of South Bend and Mishawaka. If you think that you (or your group) qualifY for an exception to this rule, please e-mail the vehicle coordinator at cscvans@nd.edu to discuss your options. For more information regarding bus routes, you can contact South Bend Transpo at (574) 233-2131 or visit their website at www.sbtranspo. com. Bus route maps to community service sites, as well as directions on how to get around using the bus system, will also be available at the Center. 
-----------c----.­
Women's Care Center Volunteers help welcome pregnant women and couples by helping them gather the resources that they need. Volunteers also needed for counseling and child-care assistance for clients and help with the crib club and baby items store. Contact: Deborah Allen at 234-0363. 
Youth Services Bureau The Youth Service Bureau has several day and evening service opportunities including supervision and. recreation for teens living at the runaway shelter, providing supervision for small children during monthly educational meetings for their parents, and staffing the newly created help line. Hours of service are geared to student needs. Contact: 
Youth Links Director at 235-9231. 
YWCA ofSt. Joseph County Volunteers serve as children's activity aides, clerical assistants, mentors, court monitors, as well as cover crisis lines, sort donations, assist in the kitchen, provide transportation, create welcome bags, plan parties for clients and help with food drives. Contact: Volunteer Coordinator at 233-9491. 
Women in Social Service and Health (WISSH) WISSH is a club that is committed to spreading awareness about issues that affect the lives of females. It is also dedicated to helping those • in need and supporting the female population on campus. This group primarily participates in service to the community regarding health issues that impact women. Student Contact: Ann Marie Szymanski at aszymans@nd.edu 
World Hunger Coalition Volunteers raise awareness and support for the poor and hungry in South Bend and around the world. Volunteers aim to explore pertinent issues involving hunger and become involved in alleviating global hunger. Student Contact: Peter Lavorini at plavorin @nd. edu 
Vehicle Rentals: 
Students who wish to perform community service in the surrounding area, and do not have transportation to their sites, may rent vehicles free of charge from the Center for Social Concerns. If you wish to rent a vehicle, please come into the esc and pick up a copy of the Vehicle Policies and Procedures. 
The Policies and Procedures will explain all of the logistics of vehicle use and will instruct you as to what you need to do next in the process of reserving a vehicle. If you are not able to pick up a copy at the Center, the Policies and Procedures are also online at http:/ /centerforsocialconcerns. nd.edu/campus_local/vehicle.shtml. Request forms are available at the CSC, and if you have any questions, you may contact the Vehicle Coordinator at cscvans@nd.edu 







