
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Tickets to Keenan Revue snapped up in minutes 
Students line up hours in advance to obtain passes to the annual sold-out comedy show held at Saint Mary's 
arrivcd at gatn 10 of thn Joyce before 2 p.m. received ticknts,"1\y KATIE WAGNER Center as early as 10 a.m. said junior Dav1~ Fotopoulos,
News Writer 
"A good portion of the line was dirnetor of the Km~nan Revue. For lill'lnnd by 1 or 1 :30 p.m.," ticket the people that came after 2 p.m., 
Notm Damn studnnts alrnady managnr and junior Steve Millnr he said, "it was basieally 50-50." li~d up with lieknt salns eould add said. Miller said this yoar's tickot dis­anollwr gripP to Uw list allnr long A total of 1,300 tickets were tribution was similar to last linns madn the Ktwnan Hevun allottnd li>r the thrne performanc­year's, sinco all of the 2004 tiek­ticknt distribution last only 23 es of the annual shameless come­ets wern taken within a half hour. minutes. dy show, with Saturday snlling Fotopoulos noticnd a dill'orenen 
Although ticknt windows did out first, followed by Thursday, in this year's event. not opnn until 2 p.m. Friday, thn then Friday. first studnnts to n~cnivn tiekets "Everybody that was there see REVUE/page 3 




Students carry on call to solidarity 

By MARY KATE MALONE News Writl'r 
Wlwn !.aura Fnmwy and Emily Chin rnturrwd from Afriea last wintnr, tlwy brought back a nnw apprBdation for African eulturn and sodnty -and a dntnrmina­tion to spwad tlwir passion with thn rnst of tlw Univnrsity. 
"Whnn wn wnrn in Africa, we spokn about how wn would pro­mote African awareness back homo," Chin said. "So we are just answering the call and taking the initiative to spark the student body's interest." 
The rnsult i>f their work is th1~ development or a weeklong initia­livn that will oneompass nearly all organizations on campus, onding witl1, organiznrs hope, a lm:ture or bennlit eoncert by humanitarian loader and U2 member Bono. 
"This will be tim first eampus­wide event that would be a eollab­oration of all tho resources that wo have around one cause," Chin said. "We want all the groups on campus to gnt their hands in it and to feel like they're a part of onn cause." 
Fenney and Chin, along with 12 other youth representatives, trav­eled to Nigeria from Jan. 1-12, 2004. Willie them, thny attendod a conference aimed at eliminating tho miseonc1~ptions about Africa. 
They also met with various load­ers from Catholic Helief Serviens and Bread for tho World. 
But it was the people of Mriea that left thn biggest imprint, Feeney said. 
"The people are so aware of thoil· problems and their poverty," Feeney said. "They are so caring and thny want to hnlp themsnlves so badly, but they nned someone 
see BONO/page 6 

Events planned to discuss diversity 
By PETER LEAHY News Wrircr 
In an nffort to promotn dialogue about issues sueh as race and religion, tho Notre Damn student gov­ernment dnclared this week to be "Divnrsity Wonk." To l'aeilitatn dis­cussion, thorn will bn events addressing diiTnr­ent issues about divnrsity on campus so studnnts can express their con­cerns and lwar what oth­ers have to say. 
Niek Colnman, Diversity Week chairman and chair of the Senate Committnn on Divnrsity Affairs, said tlwre is a nned for more divorsity on campus. cit­ing that Notre l>anw's 
see DIVERSITY/page 6 

Can1paigners take to the wires, walls 
Presidential candidates publicize using new technology, old techniques 

By KATIE PERRY News Wrircr 
Blending the innovation of new modia outlets and the reliability ol' elassic self-mar­knting strat11gies, thn six tick­ets in the studont body presi­dential/vice presidential raee arP in the midst of a cam­paign surge. 
This .July, national presi­dnntial candidate Sen. John Kerry urged viewers and attnndees of the Demoeratic National Convention to visit his Web site, "something that rranklin Roosevelt eould never have said in his aeeept­anco speech." 
The fusion of traditional and now styles during the 2004 national presidnntial raen is reminiscent of Notre Dame's 2005 contnst. Candidates for student body prnsident and vice president, mueh like the Bush-Cheney and Knrry-Edwards camps, are mobilizing voters both via face-to-face interaction as well as through Internet cam­paigns. 
The tickets have taken their eam paign strategies from tho dorms to the wires by ineor­porating various online ven­
see CAMPAIGNS/page 4 


Heininger nan1ed 2005-06 editor in chief 
Observer Staff Report The Obsorver General Board eloeted news editor Claire !Ieininger as tho 2005­
06 editor in chief on Saturday. 
Heininger, a junior Amnrican Studies major ·and Joumalism, Ethies and 

Do m oeraey Heininger minor from Ann Arbor, Mieh. who lives in Howard llall, joined ThQ Obsnrver as a nnws reporter during her freshman year. Sineo thon, shn has covered a wide variety of topics, induct­ing thn transition in the Notre Damn Oniee of tho l'n~sident, the Taco Bell protests and the "Gay? Finn by me." cam­paign. 
"I look forward to the opportunity to use thn expnri­enen I've gained with tlw news department to improve tho papnr as a wholn," Heininger said. "It is a dutl­lenge, but one I am honored 
see EDITOR/page 4 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Notvvorthy of a stortning 
It's diflicult to keep my emotions sep­arate while sitting on press row. I am a student reporter, and those two roles are very dift'erent. But I feel I do a good job keeping my emotions in check when having to report on 
Notre Dame sporL'i. 
But Sunday after the final horn sounded in Notre Dame's win over Connecticut, I became disap­pointed to be a Notre Dame stu­


dent. Matt Lozar 
That disappoint­ment stemmed from a portion of Editor in Chief the student body storming the court. 
Storming the court should come in games where the country goes, "Wow, that's an unbeliev­able win for that program." Yes, I know that's a weak definition, but there's a feeling when a student body should do it. 
The two Michigan wins in football had solid storming the court cases. Those were two wins that defined the season, the first one more than the second. 
As did the men's basketball win in 2003 over No. 4 PitL<Jburgh at the Joyce Center, and the win over Connecticut exactly one year later. 
As for the studenl'i that didn't storm the court, they did the right thing. 
Look at the members of the team. They didn't wait around on the court for the students to come down. They did some celebration while walking to the locker room, but no way did any of them expect or feel they deserved to be mobbed. Most of them were gone by the time the students made it to the court. They expected to win this game. 
After their loss on Sunday, the Huskies have as many losses as the Irish. This wasn't the No.1 team in the country. This wasn't the same defend­ing national champion from April-the two best players from that team are now in the NBA. 
This was a five-loss Connecticut team, ranked No. 19 in the country, losing a tough road game. The Irish have as many overall and conference losses as the Huskies. 
This was a good conference win. It could possibly be the defining win that sends the Irish to the NCAA tourna­ment. 
But it wasn't worthy of storming the court. 
And please, please, please, don't storm the court ifthe Irish beat Boston College. 
Yes, that could be the Golden Eagles' first loss. It could be a top-S team and the Big East's leader falling at the Joyce Center. That has all of the ingredients one would think about when storming the court. 
As a senior who saw the football team lose four times in four years, my hatred toward Boston College is more than any school. But storming the court only legitimizes them into being on the same level a<; us, which is their only goal in life. 
And that would be worse than any­thing. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Matt Lazar at mlozar@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
In Lance Gallop's Jan. 26 column entitled "Stop using Internet Explorer immediately", he says "be careful though, some browsers, like Opera, use the Internet Explorer engine, and so should nor be considered safe". That statement is incorrect. Opera does nor use the Internet Explorer engine. The Opera Software pro­grammers use their own exclusive code, and no Active X controls are used. The Observer regrets this error. 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, January 31, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR FAVORITE PLACE TO EAT ON CAMPUS BESIDE THE DH? 



Cynthia Esquivel  Rachel Bournat  Alex Ferrello  
junior  junior  junior  
Welsh Family  off-campus  Siegfried  
"Reekers for the  "Anywhere with  "Sbarro at 3  
smoothies. "  this girl."  a.m.  

Fruity beer aimed at new generation of drinkers 
ST. LOUIS -The folks who brought you Budweiser have a new brew that's any­thing but simple. 
Anheuser-Busch Cos. is hoping to lure drinkers away from classic mixed drinks by offering a beer spiked with caffeine, fruit flavoring, herbal guarana and ginseng. 
Slightly sweet but tart and coming in the aromas of blackberry, raspberry and cherry, the beer -called B­to-the-E -is to be market­ed toward "active 21-to 27­year-old experimenters looking for new tastes and 
TODAY a: 

Delphine Risto  Joanna Mangeney  Nick Weiland  
freshman Pasquerilla East  sophomore Breen-Phillips  freshman Dillon  
"Cafe de Grasta, because  "Any place that has cookies. "  "Bull winkle's. No explanation  


their chicken caesar wraps are delicious. " 


meeting Tuesday -to protest the event. The festival's name refers to a time when Gilbert was known for its bars, gambling and "work­ing girls" during Prohibition. 
"The damage has been done," resident Fran Marolt said. "This is not a family­oriented activity." 
Organizers say the festival -and its name -are meant to bring back a part of history. The festival is planned for two days in July and includes a car show, antique fair and bank rob­bery reenactment. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
options." 

Before taxes, B-to-the-E generally will fetch $1.29 for a single can, $4.99 for a four-pack of 10-ounce cans, said Dawn Roepke, the brewer's brand manager of new-product development. A bottled version is to arrive by the end of February. 
Town's historical festival not suitable for children 
GILBERT, Minn. Promoting this town's proud history is one thing. Naming the town's festival Gilbert Whorehouse Days is anoth­er thing entirely. 
A group of angry citizens showed up at a City Council 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
1.&.1 :::1: 
~ 
1.&.1 
3: 
..... 
<C 
(J 


0 

HIGH 38
..... 

LOW 23 

23 20 


33 10 

25 15 


needed." 
IN BRIEF 

Ellen Dunham-Jones from the Georgia Institute of Technology will present a lec­ture on "Retrofitting Suburbs" today from 4:30 to 
5:45 p.m. Sponsored by the College of Architecture, the lecture will be held in 104 Bond. 
The department of anthro­pology presents "Civilizing the Countryside? Village Conventions in Late-Socialist Vietnam," a lecture given by Ken MacLean from the University of Michigan, will be held today from 4:30 to 5:45 
p.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessy. 

The Kellogg Institute pres­ents a lecture on "Why Did Venezuelan Growth Collapse?" by Francisco Rodriguez from 12:30 to 1:30 p.m. Tuesday in C-1 03 Hesburgh Center. 
There will be a seminar held with David Crouse of the City College of New York on "Theory and Applications of Engineering Electromagnetic Field Profiles within Structures using Surface Plasmons" on Tuesday from 
3:30 to 4:30 p.m. in 356A Fitzpatrick. 
William Schlesinger of Duke University will lead a seminar on "The Global Carbon Cycle and the Duke Forest Free-Air C02 Enrichment (Face) Experiment" Tuesday from 4 to 5 p.m. in 283 Galvin Life Science Building, sponsored by the department of biological sciences. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 


HIGH LOW 

33 26 
Monday, January 31, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Colllps give students unique edge 
Saint Mary's senior requirement lauded as beneficial to students 
Hy MEG CASSIDY AND 
ANGELA SAOUD 
News Wrirer and Sainr Mary's Ediwr 
Saint Mary's is a unique col­lt~gn in many ways -it's all wonwn, vnry small and based on Catholic foundations. But to any Saint Mary's senior stu­dent, it is the senior comp that sots this school apart from the rost slw rt~jnctnd. 
Thn Collegn's requirenwnt for thn Snnior Comprnhonsivn l'rojnet is rare in that all dt~partments, regardless of mw's major, rPquire it. 
Political science professor Teresa Marcy said when she was a student at tho Collngo in I 951J, comps wen1 not a new rnquirnmnnt. 
"My understanding is that this has always b11nn a Collnge requirnment," Mar<~y said. "The comprnlwnsivn has dnfi­nitt>ly changed owr thn years." 
Man~y said when she was a student, thorn wnrn two parts to thn comp -a several hour essay exam preparnd by the department and the GHE exam in thn student's an1a of study. 
She also said some major changes had bnnn made to thn eomp bnforn slw started work­ing in aeadnmic administration in I1J7X. 
"For one, llw (;BE's have bt~nn replaced by an llrulnrgraduatt~ Hneord Exam (lJHE)," Marcy said. "The sec­ond change was the rnplace­1111' n t of tho depart rn nn t a I exam for sonw majors by a projnct of some sort ­research projnct, production of a play -something appropri­ate to tlw particular major." 
t\ftnr a time, there were nven morn changes to the co 111 p. Ma r<~ y s a i d . 0 n n involvPd tlw elimination of tho UBI•:, beeausn some dtlpart­nwnts had lodged complaints that it was inappropriate for t h n c u r r i nr lu rn t h n y w tH n teaching. 
t\l'tnr tlwse changes, depart­ments had sole responsibility for organizing and administer­ing their eomps. 
"Thnre is quito a hit of varia­tion across departments, but thn comprtdwnsivns to mn stwm very appropriate for thn rliiTtH'Pnt majors," Marcy said. "Tiwy used to be very umwen, in torrns of difl'iculty, but I think this situation has improwd over tho ynars." 
Assistant Dnan of' t\eadnmie t\ffairs Nancy Nekvasil said slw thinks the stringnnt proj­nct makns Saint Mary's stand out from the crowd of similar schools. 
"I think Saint Mary's is unusual arross the nnrntry for 
requiring a senior comprehen­sive." Nnkvasil said. 
She acknowlndgod whilo many schools have other rigor­tHIS senior graduation requiro­monts, Saint Mary's is unique becauso it requires a compre­lwnsivo project "across tho board for every discipline and in ovory department." 
The specil'ic rnquirements for the t:omps vary drastically betweon departments. The business department does group projects, where each group profiles and analyzes a eompany during the course of a snmestnr. The theater majors naeh direct a play. Math and science majors do major rosoarch or prol.onged experi­ments, on which they write a papor and give a presentation. Biology majors begin their cornps during spring semester junior year. For education majors, their comp is centered on their semester of studont toaehing. Finally, art majors' cornps are presented in the form of a gallery show where they 
something
"This is a culmination of
can actually everyone sees sell their an exciting academic as a goal of a piecos. experience. liberal educa­Most cornps tion," Marey 
involve a s a i d 
Jeff Roberts, 
major writing "Students component, associate director of career sometimes which incor­opportunities complain 
porates a great deal of research and in-depth expert­ise on a subject. Nekvasil said the writing aspect of' this rnquirement is what makes it such an asset for focusing on one's future bnyond college. 
Assoeiatn Director for Career Opportunities Jeff Hoberts said wlwther students are applying to graduate schools, or mar­keting onesp,Jf to Pmployers, the eornp is invaluable. 
"!This is al culmination of an oxciting aeadnmie experience that can be presented in a con­erelt1 form," Hobnrts said. 
English writing major Allison Hoehn completed her comp last semester. 
"The actual experience was valuable," she said. "It helped me realize I need some time ofT bnforn I go into a graduate school program and work nxttHJsivnly on on11 project." 
Tho English writing comp is run as a seminar program during the course of' fall snrnestflr, which Hoehn said helps lnssen thn strnss by sprnading out the process. Hoehn also said she was glad to have been able to linish her comp during fall semester 
Snnior Kathnrine Moran has a bit of a difTorent perspeetive, because as a humanistic stud-
ins major, she is in the midst of a three-week comp intensive. 
The humanistie studies eomp consists of a large thesis paper -eithnr creative or analytical in content -tlutt incorporates important aspects of every­thing one has read and learned in tho program. 
"It shows seniors how much we've learned here," Moran said. 
Even though the comp process is overwhelming at times, Moran said she appreci­ates how it encourages dose interactions with the profes­sors in her department. 
"They really challenge us to dig deeper, and I don't think you'd be able to have that per­sonal asset in a larger school," Moran said. 
t\nd despite the long hours and bouts of complaining among students, Marey said in her .time, she never saw a seri­ous proposal to remove comps as a requirement. 
"They eontributc to the inte­
gration of 
learning, 
about them 

when they are in the process, but most praise them after completion." 
Hoberts said though the process provides signif'icant stress, it has its benefits. 
"The process is proactive for transitioning into one's carenr· bocausn both the process and the final product help one foeus their ereativo thinking on onn dimension of their major in a way that they will them be able to concretely show it to someone else," he said. 
"I don't think that the stu­dents always recognize how important and beneficial it is until afterwards," Nekvasil said. "But the result is very impressivo to potential employers and in applying to graduate schools." 
Moran seemed to be in agreement with that statement as she glanced at the pile of books nnxt to her. 
"I know I'll be glad I did it in 
the  end,  but  the  next  two  
weeks  are going to be  - I'll  
say busy." she said.  

Contact Meg Cassidy and Angela Saoud at cass0593@saintmarys.edu and saou0303@saintmarys.edu 


Revue 
continued from page 1 
"It's !The Knenan Hevuel in its 2<Jth year," Fotopoulos ~<tid. "In eomparison to last year's ltkket distribution!. we had a lot more p11ople." 
Keenan's marketing stratngies for the 2005 Hnvue were mm­parable to how they had been in previous years, said Fotopoulos. 
"We already havn a base audience," he explained. 
Two advortisemnnts for the comedy show ran in The Observer and posters were put up on campus. 
Despite the eompletion of the DoBartolo Center for tho Performing Arts, the Keenan Hnvue will still bn held in Saint Mary's ()'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Miller said no performanee space in the DeBartolo Cnnter holds as many people as the O'Laughlin Auditorium, which seats 1,300 pnople. 
"Playing to tho largest audi­enee possible is the priority," hn said. 
Another advantage to keeping the Kennan Hevue at Saint Mary's is the familiarity that Keenan residents have with this venue. 
"We're quite comfortablP with tho way things are set up there," Fotopoulos said. "We have.a,relationship with Saint Marys. 
Dnspitn the largn amount of students that will not gnt to attend the show, it is unlikely any standing room tiekets will be ofl'nrml. 
Miller said as much as hn wishes they could distribute additional tickets, the safnty eodns and their eontrad with St Mary's forbid tlwrn from doing so. 
"I undnrstand that other pno­ple have dass Iduring the tiekPL distribution I, but we do havn a policy of two tkkots pnr !stu­dent II>I,'' Fotopoulos said. 
Studtml<; also have the option of asking friends from Keenan for tickets, since all r·esidenl'> of this dorm rnceivn at least four tieknl<;. The remaining snal<; arn rnsnrvPd for YIPs, Saint Mary's students and sornn faculty mombnrs. 
"We try to kenp it so that those that arn involvnd in tlw show and thosn that live in Kennan Hall arn not shut out,'' Fotopoulos said. "Prntty much every pnrson in this dorm has handled tho Hnvue in sonw way." ... 
Contact Katie Wagner at kwagner@nd.edu 

Notre Dame: Fixing Hubble a 'no brainer' 
Special to the Observer 
The Ilubblf1 Space Telescope's future is in l'ur­ther doubt amid recent reports that Nt\St\'s 2006 budget will not indude a mis­
sion to repair tho aging instrument. Instead. the reports quotn unnamed White House oflieials as saying thn budget earmarks funds to decommission llubble. 
"White Ilouse to scrap Hubble? I hope not," Peter Garnavich, a Notre Dame astrophysicist, said in reac­tion to tho news roports. "NASi\ has just dosed its 14th round of seienee proposals for the Ilubble. Despite the faet that Hubble may not be work­ing next year. thousands of astronomers from around the world submitted ideas for the usn of the telescope. Nearly all the proposals, ineluding minn to study distant super­novae, ean not be done by any other telescope in the world, mainly bncausn Hubble is not of this world." 
The 14-year old tcleseopn is expected to fail in the next two or three year·s unloss it receives new batteries and gyroscopes. The debate on how to rnpair llubble bngan a ynar ago when Nt\St\ admin­istrator Sean O'Konfe dneidnd using shuttln astronauts to serviee the obsnrvatory was too risky in light of tlw Spaen Shuttln Columbia disaster. llowevnr, a massive public outery prompted O'Keofn to announen in August that NASA would pursun a mission to repair thn tnleseopn using robots. 1\aeh option would eost at least $1 billion. The controvnrsy dnnperwd in December, wlwn an influen­tial eomrnitten of thn U.S. National Aeademins' National Hosoareh Couneil rneom­mnnded that Nt\St\ launch a manned llubbln rescue mis­sion as soon as possible, but O'Keefe hold firm. 
"IIubble is the most produe­tive scinntif'ie mission NASA has over launched," (iarnavich said. "Sevnral national sdenen organizations have rocomnwnded that every efTort be made to keep llubbl11 working. .Just this month tho American .Astronomical Socinty joinnd this list." 
The media reports havn suggested rising costs, assod­ated in part with returning the space shuttlns to f'light, may foren Nt\St\ to focus on a robotic mission to safnly dn­orbit llubbln by sending it splashing into an oenan. President Bush is thought to favor invnstrnnnt in manrwd spaen missions instnad of rnpairing tho llubhle. 
"This administration appnars to bn making a ehoiee bPtWI'tHJ funding pure seiencn and manned nxplo­ration." (;arnavieh said. "This is likn _opnning a public rela­tions o f'f'ien for a eo 111 pa ny that. doesn't sell anything. Mannnd flights art' 1:ool. exdt­ing and expensivo, hut tlwy must do more than bring home a rock to sit in a muso­um. 


Thank you ~-)~ Shanin Leeming And the Class of 2006 
for the FIRST PAR.lENTS NIGHT OUT Of THE. NE,W YEAR! 
from your favorite kids on campus and their parents at University Village 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 31, 2005 

Editor 
continued from page 1 
to accept." 

During Heininger's term as news editor, she coordinated special sections on student gov­ernment and the 2004 presi­dential election and a series exploring Holy Cross religious. 
She is the first editor in chief to come from the news depart­ment since Jason McFarley held the position from 2002­03. 
"I have confidence in Claire's ability to lead The Observer next year," outgoing editor in chief Matt Luzar said. "She has a wealth of great ideas and an excellent relationship with the staff." 
The projects Heininger hopes to undertake during her tenure include establishing a system to improve writing paperwide, increasing recruitment and planning The Observer's 40th anniversary in 2006. 
"I was excited to see what I could do to see The Observer improve next year," Heininger said. "And I'm extremely eager to work with a very talented staff." 
Heininger assumes the posi­tion as editor in chief on Feb. 28. 

;;;; ··;R 
~~.~s .:·~::::.:~:::;::;~:~~:::~~; 
Calll-5323. 


Ca01paign 
continued from page 1 

ues. In launching a multi­faceted Internet campaign, the Dave Baron-Lizzi Shappell ticket has capital­ized on the incalculable ver­satility of the web. 
"We are using technology to mobilize people through TheFacebook[.coml. AIM profiles, our online website and campaign e-mail updates," Baron said. 
TheFacebook.com has exploded into a campus-wide obsession since its debut this fall. The electronic database allows college students to create a profile, connect with other students and join spe­cific interest groups. 
Joining the ranks among some the site's more popular listings -"NO Squirrel Fans," "Irish Drinking Society" and "Anti-Guy Who Participates in Class Too Much" -are a slew of groups devoted to the indi­vidual tickets. 
Along with Baron and Shappell, the Mark Healy­Bob Costa, Alec White-Erik Powers, Will Marra-Pete Harig and James Leito­Jordan Bongiovanni tickets have initiated groups on the TheFacebook.com in an effort to exploit the free space frequented by thou­sands of students everyday. 
Freshman Matt Decker noted both pros and cons to utilizing TheFacebook.com. 
"TheFacebook[.com] is somewhat effective because of how many students use 
the Web site, but since it's very informal, and seen as a 'time waster' for those who use it might risk losing cred­ibility," Decker said. 
Though the Craig Brede­Vijay Ramanan ticket is the only one without a group listing on TheFacebook.com, they joined their competition in launching an interactive campaign Web site. 
"We are going to make it very clear that we are a seri­ous ticket with a high respect and capability for these jobs, and I think that is evident in our Web site," Ramanan said. 
While each differs in style and pres­entation, they all 
"We plan on doing
follow a For sopho­
similar anything and everything we more politi­structure. can to get to students. " cal science 
Most fea-major Joe ture a Brutto, the
Mark Healy
m a i n most effec­page with presidential candidate tive cam­
"We are starting a word-of­mouth campaign to convey our message," Baron said. "With point people and sec­ondary people in every dorm, we can reach most people and get our vision out on campus." 
Leito and Bongiovanni agreed face-to-face interac­tion is an advantageous method to garner votes. According to the ticket's Web site, both candidates will be available to speak with stu­dents at popular campus sites twice a week during scheduled times. 
"Our campaign strategy is to be honest and up-front 
with stu­
dents," 
Leito said. 
a mission statement and photograph of the candi­dates. There are also menu bars containing site compo­nents such as biographies, platforms, feedback forms and downloadable media. 
Aside from efforts imple­mented to reach students via the Internet, the campaigns are also relying on classic techniques like fliers and face-to-face interaction to attract potential voters. 
In addition to traditional posters and dorm visits, the Baron-Shappell ticket emp­hasizes the importance of human contact during a campaign season. 
paign tech­
nique is the tried-and-true style of physi­cally conversing with the candidates. 
"There really is no substi­tute for meeting the people who will vote for you and making a personal connec­tion," Brutto said. "Although new media campai.gning allows candidates to connect to more people than ever before, the technique is very impersonal and not as effec­tive as more traditional methods of campaigning." 
Other students, like Decker, cite the various advantages new m~dia out­lets can offer to candidates 
and voters alike. 

"The use of Web sites makes it much easier to inform students about the individual campaigns, as for many of us it's difficult to make time in our schedules to go to speeches," Decker said. "Web sites allow the candidates to reach a large 
-number of people easily and make it easier for students to follow the different cam­paigns on their own time." Hegardless of the advan­tages and disadvantages of the campaigning techniques, the six tickets are dedicated to getting their message out to .the study body by all means possible. "We plan on doing any­thing and everything we can to get to students," Healy said. For the White-Powers tick­et, this means turning to more unconventional modes of campaigning. "We challenge the other tickets to a pentathlon," White said. "Events will include dodge ball, a water balloon duel, an Iron Chef competition, retaking the SAT's and a Quarter Dog eat­ing contest." Not to be outdone, Marra and Harig are also integrat­ing their own form of origi­nality to reach students. "First, we're going to start off with a flying V, followed by a triple deke to a wrister through the l'ive-hole, and then cap off the W with a shrimp on the barbie," Marra said. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 


is currently accepting applications for the 2005-06 term for the following positions: 
MANAGING EDITOR ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
Applicants for Managing Editor and Assistant Managing Editor should demonstrate strong journalistic and management skills. An in-depth understanding ofnewspaper production, including skills in Microsoft Word, Quark XPress and Photoshop, is required. Experience with Macintosh computers is helpful. 
Applications for any ofthe above positions should be at least five pages and should explain the applicant's qualifications and goals. 
Managing Editor and Assistant Managing Editor applications are due by Wednesday, Feb. 2 at 5 
p.m. Submit all applications to Claire Heininger in The Observer office located in the South Dining Hall basement. 
Please direct questions about these positions or the application procedure to Claire Heininger or Matt Lozar at 631-4542. 







ORLD & NATION 
Monday, January 31, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
British plane crash kills I 0 
BM;III>AI>-A British C-1 :Hl military transport plane crashnd yostnrday north ol' Baghdad, scattPring wrockago over a large an•a. ol'lkials said. At lnast I0 troops worn killnd, Britain's l'rnss Association nnw agPnry said. 
Tlw nash ot:ruJTod at around 5:25 p.m. about 20 mill's northwest ol' Baghdad. a s}JOknsman l'or thl' British Ministry ol' J>nfPnSP. 
I'I'Pss Associ at ion q uotnd unidnntifil'd mili­tary sourrl's saying thP dnath toll was "around I()" and it was "highly unlikoly" to lw mon· than 15. 
Tht•rp was no imnwdiatn word on tlw t·.ausn ol' tlw crash, which oct'UITnd about a hall' hour af't.l'r polls elosl'd in Iraq's nlnt~­t.ions. 
Israel's leading satirist dies 
.11·:\IUSAI.I•:M -lsranl on yostnrday mourr11Hl thP passing of its pn~mil'r satirist. l·:phraim Kishon, whoso biting wit shapnd tlw national agnnda or tlw format.ivo ynars of tlw .lt•wish stall' and kPpt poopln laughing at tlw samn limn. 
Kishon, who appart~ntly su!Tnred a )wart attark. dind in thn showor at his honw in Swit.zMland. his son. llali, said. lin was SO. 
It was a swif't and unt•xptwtnd end to tlw lirn ol' an artist whoso influPJH'.n wont bnyond thP largo numiH'rs ol' pnopln who rnad his hooks and IH'wspapl'r column or watrlwd tho skits, plays and movins lw wroto. 
Kishon, who had mixnd l't11'lings toward lsnwl \alP in li!'P, also gain('(\ widnsprnad popularity in l~uropn. and lw o!lon l'nlt hnttnr apprPriatl'd tlwrt~ than in his adoptnd homn ol' lsnwl, targPt of his sharpnst barbs. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush calls Iraq election a success 
WASil\ NCTON -Prnsidont Bush callod Sunday's oloctions in Iraq a succoss and JH'OJnist1d tho Unitml Statos will continue try­ing to JH'PJ>are Iraqis to socurn thnir own country. 
"Tiw world is )waring tho voice of l'rncdom from tlw contnr or tlw Middln East," Bush told rt1portt1rs at tho Whito llousn on Sunday, four hours af'tnr tho polls closed. lie did not tak1~ qtwstions af'tnr his throe-minute statn­mnnt. 
Bush praisnd the bravery ol' Iraqis who turnod out to vote dospitn eontinuing vio­lnrll~n and intimidation. Bush said voters "firmly rejndnd the antidemocratic ideology" of terrorists. 
Iraqis dnfind throats of violenee and ealls l'or a boycott to east ballots in their first l'rnn nlnet.ion in a half-century Sunday. 
N.J. governor bows out of election 
TIU\NTON, N.J. -Acting Gov. Hichard J. Codny, who took oflicn after his predecessor rnvnalml a gay extramarital alTair, has deeid­nd not to snnk eloction to tho post, a close advisor said Sunday. 
Demoeralic Assnmblyman John McKeon said Codoy made up his mind Friday night, when hn notified his family and political allies. 
"I think he's at peace with it," McKeon said. "The fact he's decided not to run adds to his erodibility as a stabilizing force during a tumultuous period in our political history. In my viow, it was a vnry courageous deci­sion." 
LOCAL NEWS 
Body of missing girl found 
CHOTIIEHSVILLE, -ThH body of a missing I0-year-old girl was discovered by a police ofliet~r on patrol Sunday, five days after she disappeared while returning home from an errand, authorities said. 
A state trooper on patrol found the body of Katlyn "Katie" Collman, 10, in a stream in a wooded area about five miles north of S11ymour, state police Sgt. JHrry Goodin said at a news confernncn. 
Dntails of how the girl dind were not relnased. 
ENGLAND 

Iraqis stream to polls on last day 
Country's first independent election in five decades ended with final absentee ballots 
Associated Press 

LONDON Intqis 
a r o un d t lw w orI d 
streamed into polling sta­
tions yesterday for their 
last chance to t~ast ballots 
in Iraq's historic rllnclion, 
expressing hopes that the 
vote will bring pnacn and 
stability to their home­
land. 

As millions ol' people in 
Iraq dnf'ied insurgent 
threats and vot11d in their 
nation's first independent 
eloetion in f'ivo decades. 
Sunday also nutrkPd the 
third and f'inal day of 
absonteo voting in 14 
other countrios. 
"This is a dear and loud 
nwssage that Iraqis inside 
and outside arn unitod in 
defeating terrorism," 
Mansour Ibrahim said as 
lw onternd a voting ennter 
amid tight security in the 
upscale Suwfiya IWighbor­
hood in tho Jordanian cap­
ital, Amman. 

Seuf'l'lns broke out 
betwncn voters and anti­
U.S. protestors at a polling station Sunday in Britain and voting was nxttmded at one sitt1 in Australia to 
·make up for lost limn after a similar skirmish the day before. 
I
But no major violence ! was reported and organiz­ers said the throe-day bal­loting that startnd Friday 
~ 
has been a success so far, Most of those who did ol' the 21{0,30:{ rogistt1rcd imize tlw U.S.-It1d coali­
dnspite early concerns sign up wore thrilled at Iraqis went to thn polls tion's prnsnncn in Iraq, 
about turnout after only the chance to participate. Friday and Saturday, Sky News TV reported. 
25 percent of 1.2 eligible The latest available fig­many traveling long dis­Sky News showod 
Iraqis abroad registered to ures showed that about tancos. footagn ol' polko breaking 
vote. two-thirds of those who "Everything is procHed­up the fights, but rnport1~d 
The low registration fig­did sign up had cast bal­ing well, everyone is terri­no arrnsts and no snrious 
ure was attributed partly lots in the first two days. bly excited about these injuries. A spokesman for 
to fears of violence and Lazhar Aloui, Jordan's historic HIHctions," said Greater Manehnster Poliee 
retribution from insur­election program manag­Sarah Fradgley, an 10M dnseribnd thn skirmish as 
gents but also the fact that er, said that by the end of spokeswoman in London. "a minor ineident," whieh 
not all countries with large polling more than 90 per­"Everyone is anxiously of'!iccrs had brought under 

numbers of Iraqis, includ­cent of Iraqis registered in waiting for news from Iraq control. ing Egypt, participated Jordan had east their and peoplo have bonn Jubilant votnrs at a vot­and many voters had to votes. I Ic said the counting speaking to their families ing center in Wemhlny, travel abroad to register would begin at 8 a.m. in Ba~hdad and else­northwest London, danct\d and then again to vote. Monday and the results where. and held up Kurdish flags. 
Many Iraqis in the would be sent to Iraq. Fistfights broke out at a But police said thoy United States had to drive The Geneva-based polling station in arrestnd one person for hundreds of milns to reach International Organization Manchester, northern threatening behavior and the livH cities with polling for Migration, which is England, between mostly about 50 dnmonstrators places: Nashville, Detroit, conducting the expatriate Kurdish-Iraqi voters and protesting the nleetions Chicago, Los Angeles and vote for Iraq's electoral dozens of protesters who waved bannnrs and shout­Washington. commission, said 186,619 claimed the elections legit-ed slogans in Arabie. 
Storms leave 230,000 without power 
point only one -of its four runways tures were scheduled out of tlw
Associated Press 

were available Saturday as crews world's busiest passenger airport 
ATLANTA -More than 230,000 labored to scrape ofT icc. Sunday morning, Thomas said. customers had no electricity yester­"There still isn't enough demand to AirTran canceled :n of its estimat­day in Georgia while crews worked have all four operating, but it's much ed 500 flights scheduled for Sunday, to rnpair power Jines snappt1d by an easier today to maintain four run­but the airline expeeted operations to ice storm, and the city's airport ways," airport spokeswoman Lanii return to normal by early afternoon, 
reopened all its runways as tempera­ Thomas said, adding that about 300  spokesman '1'1\d Hutcheson said.  
tures rose above freezing.  stranded airline passengers spent the  Delta, which only operated I{ per­ 
Two traffic deaths in Georgia and  night at the airport because their_  cent of its flights the previous day,  
one in South Carolina were blamed  flights were canceled.  planned to ofl'er 70 percent of its nor­ 
on  the storm that sprtJad sleet and  Thick blankets of ice began melting  mal schedule Sunday, spokesman  
freezing rain across parts of the  Sunday as temperatures climbed  Anthony Blaek said.  
Southeast on Saturday.  above the freezing. Highs reachHd  The iey weathm also forend airlines  
By Sunday, all four runways at  the 40s for northern GHorgia and the  to cancel scores of flights Saturday at  
Hartsfield-Jackson  Atlanta  60s in the southern part of the state.  airports in Greenville-Spartanburg  
International Airport were opera­ Even with the improved weather  and Columbia, S.C., and at Charlotte  
tional again. Only two - and at one  conditions, fewer than 100 depar- and Haleigh, N.C.  

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 31, 2005 
report is diversity of gender, [Diversity Week]," he said.
Senate to endorse their idea. The 
girls wrote a letter to Bono's 

race and sexuality, featuring Both Duncan and Lewis
Bono 
Diversity
agent, and presented it to the sen­

testimonials from student said they will attend some of 
ate in the hopes of gathering 

discussion during recent the scheduled events and
continued from page 1 
continued from page 1 
gn~ater support form student gov­

focus groups. agree that Diversity Week is 
religious, ideological and "They !Istvan, Bell and a start. but discussion about
to help them do it. They just do ernment. 

racial make-up is too Baron] want to unite the stu­diversity needs to be carried
not haw~ the resources." "I thought they wrote a good let­
With the help ofjuniors Meghan ter," Siegfried senator James Leito 

homogenous. dent body behind their throughout the year. 
"Our committee has been report," Coleman said. "It's One of their concerns -
Hanzlik and Katie Connel, they said. "And the senators decided to 
seeing that Notre Dame isn't kind of a big statement to religious diversity -will be
havn begun to finalize their plans do a letter of their own. The girls' 
for a event tentatively titled letter was more down to earth. 
a very diverse place," the Board of Trustees that addressed Thursday night at 
Coleman said. "[The week's something needs to be done a round-table discussion
"Africa Wonk," which will likely We wanted to write a letter from 
take place in April. one professional group to anoth­
purpose] is to try to open up about diversity." among students and faculty 
discourse for tolerance of This sentiment is shared in the Coleman-Morse
"It is still in the planning stages, er." 

other people." by students as well as the Center from 7:30 to 8:30
but we have discussed bringing in The senate's letter, along with 
speakers, luminaries and a film the letter written by the organiz­
On Wednesday, the events student. body leaders. p.m. 
begin with "Interrace," a Freshman Briana Duncan The events to be held
festival," Connel said. ers of Africa week, will be sent to 
The organizers have set their Bono's agent. 

discussion of racial issues on said she notices the lack of Friday and Saturday are 
sights high and are taking meas­"But Africa Week will go on 
campus. It will be held at diversity on campus. aimed at providing a relax­
ures to bring U2's Bono to campus regardless of whether or not we 
5:30 p.m. in the Coleman­"I definitely think that ing and fun environment for 
to speak about Africa's AIDS cri­can get Bono or U2," Feeney said. 
Morse Center. Diversity there's a lot of room for students. The Multicultural 
sis, and also the continent's cultur­"But he's Irish, we're Irish, and it 
Week Chairman Nick [more] diversity," Duncan Student Programs and 
al beauty. would be great ifhe eould come." 
Coleman explained that said. "I think race relations Services (MSPS) comedy 
Bono, well known for his pas­In addition, the group has been 

"Interrace" meets monthly and religious issues could be show is Friday at 10 p.m. at 
at the Center for Social improved upon." Legends.
sionate support of Africa, would circulating a petition through the 
be a hugely effective addition to dorms and plans to set up booths 
Concerns and takes an open Sophomore Dave Lewis "Students can relax, have 
Africa Week, llanzlik said. around campus to gather signa­
forum form. shared Duncan's feelings in fun and celebrate people's 
"We want him to eome to cam­tures and demonstrate student 

"It's a discussion about regards to the variety of reli­diversity," Coleman said of 
pus in any way that he can. He solidarity behind the African 
what's going on [on cam­gion on campus. the comedy show. 
pus]." Coleman said. "This "I think that we need more The week concludes on
has done amazing things in cause. 
Afriea," Hanzlik said. "lie is an Senate has been behind the 
month's topic is about the religious diversity. It is Saturday with Mike Jacob's 
advocate of our cause, and he can cause since the fall, and continues 
climate of diversity." always good to broaden your performance of Cherokee 
demonstrat1~ how one person can to support the efforts. 
Later Wednesday night, proverbial horizons," he music at the Kroc Institute 
make a huge diflerence." But Leito was quick to note that 
Badin Hall is holding an said. at 7 p.m. Coleman urged stu­
Despite his enormous popularity the events and the pursuit of Bono 

Africau Spiritual Mass open Lewis took a different view dents to go. 
and busy concert schedule, the are not senate projects. 
to a][ students to support on racial diversity on cam­"You can broaden your 
likelihood of Bono coming, at least "This is not a Senate project, we 
religious diversity. pus, however. horizons a little bit," he said. 
as a speaker, seems promising. are just showing support," Leito 
. Thursday is "We are ND" "I think we have a pretty "You can experience some­
Since his concert at Notre Dame in said. 
T-shirt day. Student body good mix of people however t?ing, new and have a good 
the spring of 2002, he has spoken Hanzlik believes the nature of 
president Adam Istvan, vice [diversity] is more than just time. 
fondly of the University, Hanzlik Notre Dame -its students and its 
president Karla Bell and being here, it's about how Overall the week is intend­
said. wealth -will make the event a 
chief executive assistant you interact," he said. ed to make students feel 
"Bono ha..s always said he would success. 

Dave Baron have asked that Lewis also added there is a more comfortable on cam­
love to come back to Notre "It's about using what you have 
students unite and wear difference between the way pus, Coleman said. 
Dame," Hanzlik said. "It's just a to help others and that's what 
their green "We are ND" T­multicultural and majority "We want to discuss race, 
matter of him fitting us into his Notre Dame is all about," Hanzlik 
shirts -or any green shirt -students are treated on cam­religion and gender without 
schedule." said. "When you're given so much, 
to demonstrate student sup­pus that bothers him. feeling like people are criti­
Knowing Bono historically has what are you going to do with it?" 

port of the report they are "What I don't like about it cizing us," Coleman said. 
come to schools that demonstrate 
making to the Board of is that I'm a multicultural 
strong student interest, the girls Contact Mary Kate Malone at 
Trustees Thursday after­student, and that's the only Contact Peter Leahy at 
have appealed to the Student mmalone3@nd.edu 
noon. The subject of the reason why I knew about pleahy@nd.edu 

THE 0HSERVER 



USINESS
Monday, January 31, 2005 
page 7 

Lilly with-draws FDA application 
INDIANAPOLIS, Ind. -Eli Lilly and Co. and Bonhringer lngnlheim Pharmaceuticals Inc. havn withdrawn their request seeking U.S. approval to market a sistnr drug to the anti­dnprnssant Cymhalta to trnat stress urinary innmti nenr.e. 
Lilly said thn decision to pull the application Friday for Yentnwe followed disr.ussions with tlw Food and Drug Administration that suggnst­ed the agency would not approve it based on suhmittnd data. 
Yentmve, whieh also is marketed as AriClaim, is approvnd in 27 countries outside of the United States. 
Lilly said the companins "will evaluatn all options for nnxt steps once they have had time to fully understand the FDA's perspediv(~." They will eontinun ongoing dinieal trials for the drug, known dwmieally as duloxntine, as an ineonti­nnnce treatment. 
"Despite this deeision, we continue to havn conlidnnen in duloxetine. whieh is c·.urrently available for thn treatment of strnss urinary incontirwnen in many other countries." 
Dow 
10,427.20 -40.20

}ones. 
Up: I,SM>  Same: 166  Down: •  Composite Volume: 1,642,010,112  
AMEX  1.421.86  -0.61  
NASDAQ NYSE S&PSOO  2,035.83 7,031.99 1,171.36  -11.32 -16.98 -3.19  

NIKKEJ(Tokyo) 11,460.73 +140.15 FTSE IOO(London) 4.832.80 -20.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 TR SER I (QQQQ) -0.49 -0.18 36.92 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.27 +0.07 26.18 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -1.54 -0.28 17.90 
INTEL CP (INTC) -0.31 -0.07 22.24 
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) -2.23 -0.05 2.19 
30-YEAR BOND -1.33 -0.62 46.10 
10-YEAR NOTE -1.64 -0.69 41.38 
5-YEARNOTE -1.52 -0.57 36.84 
3-MONTH BILL +0.84 +0.20 24.07 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.66 48.18 
GOLD ($11i-oy oz.) -0.30 428.1 0 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.30 94.38 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 03.4800 
EURO 0.7679 
POUND 0.5306 
IN BRIEF 
Time Warner to bid on Adelphia 
PIIIIAI>I\LPIIIA-Comcast and Time Warner an~ nxpnetnd to makn a joint ofl'nr by Monday to buy bankrupt cabin operator Adelphia Communications Corp., according to published rnports. 
Comcast Corp., thn nation's largnst cable-tnle­vision opnrator with 2 I .5 million subscribnrs, and socond-ranknd Tinw Warnor Inc., with 10.9 million, havn bnnn working together since last IiLII to makn a bid for Adelphia's 5.3 million sub­scribnrs. 
Industry nxncul.ivns told the Los Angeles Times fi1r Saturday's ~~ditions that they nxpected tlw bid to bn $14 billion to $15 billion, far short of lhn $17.5 billion sought by Adelphia bond­holdnrs. 
The bid plans wern also rnportnd Saturday by Tlw Philadelphia Inquirer. Time Warner spokesman Ed Adler doelinod to comment Saturday, and Adelphia spokesman Paul .lacobson said "tho bidding process is confiden­tial" and he would have no eomment. 
Many of Adnlphia's cable systems arn eontigu­ous to Comcast and Time Warner entities, mak­ing tlwm appnaling from a business standpoint. 


Patent for key Merck drug invalidated 
Osteoporosis drug sold to more than 3 million people to be taken off market 
Associated Press 

THENTON, N.J.-A fed­eral court invalidated the patnnt on Friday for Merek &. Co.'s sncond-largest sell­ing drug, the blockbuster osteoporosis treatment Fosarnax, in a dncision that offers millions of patients hope for a cheap­er version sooner, but darkens the company's already clouded outlook. 
The company also was hit with news that the fed­eral Securities and Exchange Commission is starting a formal inquiry into its handling of arthri­tis blockbuster Vioxx, which it withdrew from the market last year after studies showed it incrnasnd the risk of heart attacks and strokes. 
Merr.k's shares tumbled in heavy trading. 
The U.S. Court of' Appeals for the Federal Cireuit in Washington, D.C., Invalidated the patent for the oncll-a-wnek ver­sion of Fosamax, which dominatns the market for osteoporosis drugs. More than 3 million people in the United States af'nicted with the brittle-bone dis­ease take Fosamax. 
Under the ruling, generic competition could begin as soon as early 2008, instead of 2018. The main patent for the daily 5 milligram and 10 milligram versions of the drug already was set to expire in February 2008. 
Fosamax is the No. 2 drug for Whitehouse Station, N..I.-based Merck. It reported sales of $3.16 billion for Fosamax last year, more than 90 percent of which were for the 35 mg and 70 mg once-a­week versions, according to company spokesman Tony Plohoros. 
. Each version costs about $80 for a month's supply. 
"Merck disagrees with the opinion of the court of appeals and is considering its options, ineluding a request for reconsideration by the court of appeals," Plohoros said. 
The court's ruling was a blow to Merck, whieh far.es a dearth of new drugs to offer, slumping sales from major drugs losing patent protection, and lost rev­enues and a slew of law­suits over its withdrawal of arthritis blockbuster Vioxx. 
Merck shares closed down $3.16, or 10 percent, to $28.02 Friday on the New York Stock Exchange. Nearly 57 million shares were traded, or roughly six times normal daily volume for Merck . 
"It's a big deal," said Barbara Hyan, a managing director at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. "Merck obviously has a lot of issues faeing it, including the withdrawal of' Vioxx from the market and the loss of the Zocor patnnts in the middle of 2006." 

Zocor, for high choles­terol, is Merck's biggest drug, with $5.2 billion in sales last year. 
"The profit impar.t could be very severe," Hyan said of the Fosamax patent loss. 
Merr.k in 2003 lost two major products in late­stage trials that could have eventually replaced Zocor, said pharmaceuticals ana­lyst Albert Hauch of A. G. Edwards &. Sons Inc. 
"How are you going to replace those revenues'! That's what people are worried about," Hauch said. 
Pharmaceuticals analyst Tim Anderson of Prudential Financial pre­dieted the Fosamax deci­sion will leavn Merck with f'lat earnings in 2008. A once-monthly osteoporosis treatment callnd Boniva, produced by Switzerland's Hoehn Group, is dun out in several months and is "an underapprneiatod thwat," lw added. 
The appeals eou rt's 2-1 decision on Fosamax reversed an August 200:1 ruling by the U.S. District Court in Dnlaware, which had upheld the patnnt. · 
The oncn-a-week patent had lHHHl challenged by generic drugmaker Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. of North Wales, Pa., one of the country's largest generic drugmakers, with about 170 medicines on tho market. 
AUSTRIA 



Heating oil prices not likely to change 
Associated Press 

VIENNA -A kHy OPEC committee recommended Saturday that the oil cartel keep its current output quota unchanged, its prnsident said, signal­ing that oil producers believe current prices near $50 a barrel are not too high. 
Kuwait's oil minister Sheik Ahmad Fahd al-Ahmad al-Sabah, who heads the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, said the recom­mendation to keep the quota at 27 million barrels a day was made by the group's Ministerial Monitoring Committne. That quota was set at the December meeting in Cairo, Egypt. 
However, the group currently pro­duces about 29.6 million barrels a day. 
"We believe that we (will) continuo with the ceiling, but at .the same time (need) to comply with the decision we made in Egypt," he said, adding that some cuts had already been made. 
The 10 members of the group sub­ject to quotas are overproducing by some 500,000 barrels daily, al-Sabah said. Iraq is not subject to the quota. 
The full group will meet Sunday to dedde whether to adopt the commit­tee's recommendation, something it does not necessarily have to do. The eommittHe 's task is to take stock of conditions affecting the oil markets and oll'er policy recommendations to the full group. 
"I think the consensus is that we're not going to decrease," Algerian Oil Minister Chakib Khelil said. 
The decision could heighten U.S. consumer concern about heating oil prices this wintnr, although one ana­lyst said prices lik1~ly will remain sta­ble for now. 
The 11 members did say, though, that cuts could b1~ made at the cartnl's next meeting in Iran in March. 
Iranian Oil MinistPr Bijan Namdar Zangeneh said members should focus on improving compliance with the existing output target.. 
"One idna is that we have oversup­ply in tho markot and an increasn in the level of' stocks," which would be an argument for cutting produetion, he said. 
THE 0 BSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 8 Monday, January 31, 2005 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
THE OBSERVER 
Tk Indepnuknt, D11.ily Nnvspapn-Serr~in.t Notrr o~me nnJ Saint MaryS 
' 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Embrace diversity
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Matt Lazar 
MANAGING EDITOR  8USINFSS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
AD 0FSIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter 
CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(57 4) 631-4 543 sports.! @>nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's CoUege. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right co refuse adverrisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be dire~d to Editor in Chief Matt Lazar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob!)(!rvcr (USPS 5~9 2-4000) i~ published Monday thwugh Friday ex-cq:tt during enm .:utd ~tiM ptriods. Asub,;c:ription ttl The Observer i5 $100 for ot1t academic year; $55 tOr one semem:r. 
The Observtr iJ publishl:d ilt: POSTMASTER 
0.2.4 South Dining Hall Send itddress c:ottectious to~ Notre Dame.JN 46SS6..0779 The: Ob!itr¥er Periodical postage paid ar Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailiug oftices. 024 Sourh Dining H•dl 
Non~ Dame, lN 46556-0:779 
TI1e Olnervcr is a me..nher oftill: As.sodatd l'rcSll. All rt':productiou righu :m: reserVed. 

Diversity Awareness. It's a catch­phrase on campus and in our coun­try's politics, but what does it really mean? Most fundamentally, diversity awareness means realizing that other students are different (in race, color, or creed) than you are. Moreover, it 
means realizing that one's actions should avoid mar­ginalizing anyone, in the majority or minority. 
That sounds great -who wouldn't agree that the entire Notre Dame student body should be unified? The trick is figur­ing out how best to achieve this universal goal. The Senate Diversity Committee has faced this difficult question in its attempt to make Notre Dame a better community. 
We have all seen mis­takes made during attempts to change the sta­tus quo. Many stereotypes about the majority groups on campus have been made in the name of diver­sity awareness, demonizing them as rich, white and intolerant Catholics who could never understand anyone different. Likewise, the good-faith efforts of minority groups have been reduced to the actions of an angry 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
few who need to "give it up." The truth, as always, lies somewhere in the middle. 
Diversity at Notre Dame must move beyond tolerance and towards rela­tionships. An increasingly diverse stu­
dent body serves no purpose if the different groups within that body do not intertwine. The purpose of diversity is to learn about one another and, in the process, learn about ourselves. So this 
message goes to all groups and stu­dents alike. 
To the majority: leave your corn­fort zone and go meet new and different people. They exist, we 
assure you. This is a rare time in your life where you have 
access to people in your same position that could offer so many new things. We are all the same age, all students, all going through 
the same experiences. However, some of us come from different places and bring different perspectives. It is this opportunity to see life from per­spectives other than your own that make college a rich and rewarding experience. 
To the minority: There is no point in leaving horne and going somewhere 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Amanda Michaels Justin Schuver Katie Perry Mike Gilloon What kind of discrimination do youTricia DeGroot Kevin Brennan 
feel is most prevalent at Notre 
Viewpoint Scene Justin Spack Becca Saunders Dame and Saint Mary's? Graphics Illustrator Desiree Zamora Meg Dwyer 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
new if you are not willing to take in the experience. Joining a small group of people that are the same as you and sheltering yourself off from the rest gives you no potential to grow. 
Understandably, it is at first com­fortable to face a change with people that can uniquely relate to you. But what is the use of never relating to anyone else? In the end, we are all privileged to be here and we should all take advantage of the opportuni­ties offered. Even if the Office of Admissions did all it could to ensure that each new class is more diverse than the last, its efforts would be worthless unless the kid from Panama gets to know the kid from Panama City Beach, Fla. 
It's Diversity Week at Notre Dame. Notre Dame can be a place where we will be able to openly discuss issues of religion, race and sexuality. We hope to dissolve social stratifications that limit students to sitting at certain tables in the dining halls. Conversations about coach Tyrone Willingham's firing or gay rights shouldn't begin and end with T-shirt designs. We must all realize that someone that disagrees with you is not necessarily ignorant; increased communication will enhance our uni­versity's social and intellectual expe­riences. Please join us in a step toward establishing a closer Notre Dame community. 
Nicholas Coleman Senate Diversity Committee Chair Jan. 30 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Our Constitution is color-blind and neither knows nor tolerates classes among citizens. '' 
John Marshall Harlan former Supreme Court justice 

Tt--IE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
MonJay, January 31, 2005 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Monologues are art, not propoganda 
I onjoynd l'otor Wick's Jan. 27 column investi­gating campus roal:lions to tho "Vagina Monologuos." But I was surprised by his daim that if' Eve Ensler worn "a bntlnr artist shn would havo d1ostm a fi~rmatthat allowed her to acknowlodgo disstmting voices." It semns a rnis­roading of' tho play's purpose and llw purpos1~ of' art in gennral. 
Enslor's play is dosigned to be deliberately provocativo, likn Ann Coulter's books or Michanl Moon~·s films. i\ll three take extrome positions in ord1w to push tho boundaries of' publie dis­courso. Thny lake five steps to the left or right so that tho gerwral public may someday lake orw stop. Thorn is a word for cnmtive endnav­ors that advance a particular political agtmda to tlw 1~xdusion of' all other concerns-propagan­da. 
·But make no mistake: Enslnr's play is art. not propaganda. Its wit and compassion for its charat:tnrs nlnvatn it ahovo the levo.l of' mere polemic. Tlwy lond tht~ play a depth and lm~adth of' spirit that that may allow it to res­onaln with audinnens in 2050. By contrast, both "Fahmnhnit IJ-11" and "Treason" are so cir­eumscribed by their agendas as to be artless. 
Would the Vagina Monologues be better art if. as Wick suggests, they ineluded dissent'? Perhaps. But it's difficult to imagine how it could b1~ integrated into tho play. The resulting "dialogue" would seem to bn like the ones that Notm Dame has regarding abortion and homo­sexuality -two diametrically opposed sides scrnaming invective at ono another, eaeh locked into an ideology that forbids compromise. Put Coulter and Moore in a room and see if' they come out agrneing or dead. 
As a centrist-, someone who says, "There's nothing vulgar about saying 'vagina,"' but blushes as he says it, I, liko Wiek, woleomo voic­os that provide evnnhandnd insight into multiple sides of' eontroversial issuns. But I do not daim. as Wick senms to, that a work of' art ought to give tho opposition equal airtime. After all, that is the purpose of a newspaper editorial page, not the theater. 
Tom Miller graduate student Jan. 29 

Play doesn't protect won1en 
Violnnen against wonwn, like many things in our world, is something that not only eontributos to the bn~akdown of' sodety, it also is just sad. A'l is our Catholic mission here at Notm Dame, wn must wad1 out and protect all in soeiety who are dofimsnlnss -batternd women, victims of abor­tion, tlw poor and tho list goes on. 
Ilowevnr, I think those involved with the Vagina Monologues lictil in this mission. I was absolutdy appalled at tho nature of Karla Bell and Molly Savage's letter on Jan. 27. llow does this production holp stop women's violence'? If anything, it makes a woman's anatomy into something to be joked about, dishonored and lrivializnd. I bdieve this type of aetivity would promote violence against women more than pro­lt~et against it. Why do people in tho world muti­lato thnsn wom1m and their bodies'? The answer is that tlw wonwn arn seen as lesser, as not worth di1-,rnity and respect. 
Trust me, ladins, by talking about your God­givnn bodies in such a vulgar way, you do not promoln dignity li>r yourselvns-you destroy it. 
I Juring early World War II, tho Nazis would nxneutn individuals by shooting them with guns into a pit of bodies. Ilowever, they later ehanged methods. Not only wore bullets bneoming too eostly, but thfl executioners wore having trouble killing so many people, especially ones who spoke German. This was because the Nazis saw the people they were kiiling almost as equals. To hurt someone, a person must see the other as inferior. Otherwise, the task beeomes more dilli­eult. 
The same applies to this ease. Women who are abused, raped, prostituted and murdered are seen as less than human beings by their victimiz­ers. We ought to promote things that go against this trend, not support it. 
Even if some aspects of this production really do aim at goals of stopping violence, one cannot ignore tho glaring ways in which this message is brought aeross. The body of a woman is sacred, and we should treat it that way, not only in our actions but also in our words. 
Dan Allen 
sophomore 
O'Neill Hall 
Jan. 29 


Lecture series disappoints 
As a Catholic and a pro-life feminist, I was plnasnd to sen that two Notre Dame students, Christina Dohan and Anamaria Seaperlanda­Buiz, had organized a series of on-campus talks entitled "The Maria Goretti Project: 1\mpownring Women to End Violence." As we all know, violenec against women is an issue of great eoncern, especially for eollegn-agn women, who are most often the vktims of sex­ual assault, and for pregnant women, as homi­eide was the number one cause of' death for pregnant women in tho U.S. last year. 
When I atltmded the series, however, I was disappointed to find that violence against wonwn was only minimally discussed. On the other hand. the importance of' stay-at-home mothering was giwn top billing two nights in a row. I wondnrnd, as I sat in the audience, if thorn wasn't some ulterior motive behind tho series, something not on the posters, some­thing about tho new feminism of Pope John Paul II. The voeation of motherhood is a fine and worthy topic for eollegn women to discuss, most of' us will bn mothers, still, I felt a bit dncnivnd as the series was advertised as being about violence against women, when in fact its seope was much more broad. 
Finally I think the choice of' St. Maria Goretti was an unfortunate one. Maria Goretti was an eleven year-old when she was stabbed to death by her would-be rapist for refusing to submit her virginity to him. She reportedly shouted, "No it's a sin! I will not do it!" Canonized in 1950 for prnscrving her purity at the eost of her life and for forgiving the perpe­trator, Maria is the patroness of women, purity and victims of rape. Maria's struggle, however harrowing, seems to suggest that a woman's holiness consists entirely in the extent to which she resists the sometimes violent advances of men. This, I think, is the kind of outdated thinking that has left so many women who have been sexually assaulted blaming themselves, and believing that they are responsible for their "sin." 
Anna Nussbaum junior Farley Hall Jan. 29 
U-WIRE 

U.S. president should stay American 

how nonsensical it is to allow foreigners some Will Gardner olliees but not all. Sorry, folks, this isn't tlw mayor of Cross Plains we're talking about, it's tho presi­Texas n~ch dent of' the United States. l fniversity 
Whoever holds this oflice represents our eountry l lniversity to the world, he or she is the embodiment of' what Daily we are all about. In my eyes, for someone to fit tho aforementioned criteria, he or she has to be a natural-born U.S. eiti­zen. 
This is no dig against foreigners by any means. I have the utmost respect and admiration for people with enough guts to leave their country and seek a better life. After all, improving the quality of life for you and your descendants is something for which most aspire. I firmly believe these people who legally enter our country positively contribute to society. They are strong-minded, hard-working individu­als. 
However, I am still strongly opposed allowing them a chance to run for president. American-born citizens have a natural, innate patriot­ism that runs in their blood. It's something that eannot b9 taught or learned. · 
I am willing to bet an Ameriean-born person would die for this country. Would someone born elsewhere feel the same'? Some would, but there would be others who would have to think about it <ir deeline. 
When you are speaking of tho oflice of the president of the United States, that person must bleed red, white and blue. 
Here's another scenario. Let's say foreigners are allownd lo run for president, and someone from France gets elected. He's a grnat, upstanding individual with great ideas for this country's futuro. I low do you think he would reaet if. during his term, we had to go to war against France, his homnland, a place wherP many of his rnlativns still reside'? 
Would he be able to do it'? It would be an obstade this man would have to overcome. There are enough hurdles to leap ovnr already. It would be foolish to add another one. 
Now, while this is purely hypothetical, it eould come to pass if' a for­eigner were elected. 
For all you conspiracy theorists out there: What if a vehemently anti-American migrated here with the purpose of running the Unitnd States into the ground'? Don't think for a second there wouldn't bo someone out there with this notion. If people are willing to attach bombs to their bodies and blow themselves up, this would be a walk in the park. 
I know the chances of these two scenarios aetually taking place aro at best minute, but still, we eannot allow the possibility. 
What it all comes down to is the fact that the president should bn the epitome of American. Would the leader of an organization likn tho NAACP be Hispanic, Caucasian or Asian'? No, bneause he simply can­not grasp the hardships or ideals of blacks. lie can sympathize with them and even lend a helping hand, but unless you are born with that understanding, you never can relate truly. 
It's my main fear that one day we will eleet someone president who doesn't understand or realize what it is to bn an American. That, or maybe I'm petrified that one day, I will be stuek ehoosing bntwenn Sen. Hillary Clinton and the Terminator. 
This column originally appeared on Jan. 28 in the University Daily, the daily publication at Texas Tech University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 10 Monday, January 31, 2005 
CONCERT REVIEW 

The Chieftains impress at the PAC 
World-renowned Irish group entertains with ease 


Canadian brothers Jon, left, and Nathan Pilatzke performed Irish tap dance together at the beginning of the show. Jon also played fiddle in the concert. 
CLAIRE KELLEYfThe Observer 
Chieftains frontman Paddy Maloney leads the band in song. Maloney endeared himself to the audience through his performance and good natured humor. 
By BRANDON HOLLIHAN 
Scene Writer 
An incredible week has arrived at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
Not only did we have the pleasure of a dynamite per­formance Sunday from the Chieftains, regarded by many as the centerpiece of t~;aditional Irish music, but also Thursday evening marks the arrival of perhaps the most famous orchestra in the world. 
"I think it's incredible that we're able to get groups with the notoriety of the Chieftains," said Notre Dame student Bridget O'Brien. "As a senior, I'm really excited to see all this happening now instead of next year." 
But it really is happening here? At Notre Dame? Was everyone headed to Chicago and ran out of gas? 
Whatever the circumstances, it is a musically historic week at Notre Dame, and the Chieftains kicked it off with an electric performance. In their show, they included numerous special guests and even the inclusion of a local group for the encore. 
The band started the evening with two up-tempo Irish ballads, beginning the program with a great deal of ener­gy. The ballads featured a solo on bagpipes and Irish tap dance by the Canadian brothers Jon (whom also doubled as a fiddler) and Nathan Pilatzke. The brothers were astounding, as were traditional Irish dancers Cara Butler and Danny Golden. A group of younger Irish dancers from the World Academy also made an appearance in the show's second half. It was surprising to see such so much time distributed to dancing, but there were certainly no complaint<> about it. 

The musical guest artists also demonstrated a standard of excellence. Spanish musician Carlos Nunez, who has collaborated with the Chieftains since 1990, performed on the Gaita (a Spanish version of the bagpipes), recorder, whistle, and bombard (a double-reed wind instrument, similar in appearance to an oboe). Nunez's music felt mystical and even curious. It seemed as if he were diving into elaborate improvisational phrases that did not stray far from the melody, and yet still felt too complicated to actually have been written out. 
This perspective goes for much of the Chieftains' music as well; everyone performed the concert from memory, but it seemed unlikely that every note played was planned in advance. The Chieftains are very connected with the rhythmic and formulaic aspects of their music. However they make sure to allow for just enough room for melodic variation, so that they do not become sepa­rated from the heart of the music. 
But just playing beautiful music is more than enough, as evidenced by guest artist Triana Marshall on the Irish harp. She did nothing complicated. She played her solos sweetly and harmoniously, and she sounded dazzling. 
After a finale that featured all of the musicians in a great jam session, the Chieftains brought out local Irish group Kennedy's Kitchen. One could feel the excitement on stage, with the fusion of two fme groups -one with worldly connections, the other playing in their own back­yard-resulting in Irish music. 
Paddy Moloney, the frontman for the Chieftains, endeared himself to the audience as the night went on. He cited the group's incredible history, which includes eighteen Grammy nominations and six Grammy awards. "We would've won seven Grammys for 'Down the Old Plank Road," he added, "but those Dixie Chicks were in the way." 
Moloney was also very grateful to the PAC for the con­cert opportunity, noting towards the end of the concert, "We really enjoyed coming here. It's a fantastic theater, fantastic sound." 
The audience gave the Chieftains a warm reception all night. "It's been good to hear traditional Irish music," said student Mike Cloughesy. 
Chieftains fan John Brady gave the concert rave reviews. "It was fabulous," he said. "We saw [the Chieftains] in Chicago five years ago, and we liked them even better here." 
Contact Brandon Hollihan at bholliha@nd.edu 
I 

.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

-




CENE
Monday, January 31, 2005 
page II 
Riley and Reekers feature student art -­
Art majors and selections for 'The Juggler' displayed on campus 




By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 

It's not often you can walk into an nxhibit and are abln to say you know the m·tist. The current displays of Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate prints and photographs in Riley hall and Hflckers may let you do exactly that. The exhibits arn a chance to see some of the best work from student<; who spnnd the majority of their time inside Riley llall working hard as urt and dnsi1-,>11 majors. 
Riley 

Time is running out to catch the work of stu­dnnt photographers in Hiley I fall. The Annual Undergraduate Photo Major Exhibition, set up in the gallery in the front hallway on the west­em side of the building, will be taken down thL<> week. The exhibition is one of two displays of student work presented annually in the Hiley gallery, which is usually reserved for displays by professional artists. 
At the end of the semester the gallery is also used to display ti1e work of student<> graduating after earning their bachelor's degree. The Hiley exhibit is one of the first chances many student<> have to display their work in a gallery setting, and it gives them a chance to learn how to frame and hang their work professionally. Graduate student Sheila Talbitzer Reynolds, who was in charge of organizing this year's exhibit and choosing the prints, was impressed by the quality and variety of the submi<>sions. 
"The show is incredible this time," she said. 

The exhibit represent<> the work of 14 photo majors, each of whom submitted up to iliree dif:· ferent prints for Reynolds to choose. This year tho department will also present juror's award<> for two photos chosen by professors and gradu­ate students from tim department. The awards will be prcsentod at the gallery reception, which will tako place on Tuesday from 6 to 8 p.m. on the second floor of Riley. 
Reekers 

Most students probably remember picking up "The Juggler" in ti1e dining halls; but until this semester, few have had a chm1ce to see any of the actual pieces or art featured in "The Juggler." 
The magazine, which comes out once a semester, is intended to give students a chance to see some of the best new art being created by ).,Tfaduatn and undcrbrraduate students. 
The magazine put<> out a call for submissions once a semester and tile editors choose particu­larly impressive pieces for publication. The new exhibit in Reekers will fr1ature the original finn art prints and photographs featured in this semester's issue of "The Juggler," which is sehedulnd to come out next wonk. 
KThe oxhibit is both a way to promote the magazine itself and to give the artists them­selves a venue for showing their work out<>ide it," Juggler editor Mary Prcdergast said. "Whilo tho magazinn is dedicated to making the cam­pus aware or thn art that's bning madn here, it's obviously much better to sec the work in pnr­son." 
Exhibition organizer and Thn Observer's asso­ciate photo editor Chuy Benitez is currently completing tho nxhibit and plans to bn finished by Friday. 
Studnnt<> can already see most of tho piints on display in Beckers. The display does not have a scheduled ending date, but Benitez hopes Heckers will become a permannnt gallnry for <u1 rnaturnd in "The Juggler," with a new display every semester in conjunction with the maga­zine. 
Both ti1n Reekers and B.ilny exhibits m·e free, conveninntiy located and open to all. 
So tho next time you walk by, stop in a take a look around for work created by your own frinnds and da<>smatns. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 


-
-


-
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, January 31, 2005 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

-
Illini too much for Gophers, win 21st straight 
Duke destroys Virginia Tech as Redick scores 29, rebound from recent loss 
'-Associated Press turnovers on its first two pos­Duke's Shelden Williams. sessions. The Golden Gophers Washington went sprawling 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. -Illinois were led by Vincent Grier, who across the floor, then waited for celebrated 100 years of basket­scored 17 points. the foul to be called. ball on Saturday and the top­"We were in a hole trying to The whistle never blew. ranked Illini made sure they come out of it," Grier said. "You "I was like, 'This game is didn't spoil the party. can't play catch-up like that going to be wild if that's the 
Deron Williams had 18 points against the No. 1 team in the way it's going to be called,"' and six assists, and Illinois con­country." Washington said. "I flew from trolled the game from the open­Powell opened the game with the 3-point line all the way out ing tip in an 89-66 win over a layup off a nice feed from Dee of bounds." Minnesota. Brown. Williams hit a jumper, The Hokies' first trip to 
"I think we wanted to come Head and Powell made 3-point­Cameron Indoor Stadium as a out and put on a show," ers and Powell sank two free member of the Atlantic Coast Williams said. "We always want throws to give the Illini a 12-4 Conference didn't go much bet­to get the job done, but it was a lead with 16:34 to go in the first ter after that. special night with the people in half. Williams had a double-double the crowd so we wanted to win "We really were reactive to by halftime and J .J. Redick it for them, too." start the game," Gophers coach scored 29 points despite a 
More than 300 former players Dan Monson said. "We just cre­shaky performance at the free and coaches were among the ated a monster with our throw line. helping the second­sold-out Assembly Hall crowd defense early." ranked Blue Devils bury that watched the Illini (21-0, 7-While the Illini were scoring, Virginia Tech Sunday night. 
-
0 Big Ten) open the game with Minnesota had to battle to get Williams finished with 25 a 10-1 run. Roger Powell Jr. an open look. The shot clock points and 17 rebounds for scored five of his game-high 21 expired on the Gophers' second Duke (16-1, 6-1), which points during the spurts, and possession and they were bounced back from a home loss 
d scored seven of Illinois' first 12 forced to take three shots in the earlier in the week to Maryland. ~ points. first half with fewer than 5 sec­Daniel Ewing added 17 points. 
Former Illinois coaches Harv onds remaining on the shot "We wanted to come out and Schmidt, Gene Bartow and Lou clock. make a statement," Williams Henson were among those who Illinois took a 17-point lead said. "We knew they were goi1,1g came back for the celebration, on two consecutive 3-pointers to be a scrappy team, so we which included a postgame from Williams and a third from wanted to throw the first introduction of the school's all­Brown with 10:41 to go in the punch, so to speak." century team. Henson, who half before Minnesota came Oklahoma St. 104, coached at Illinois for 21 sea­back with its own 7-0 run to cut Colorado 86 sons and led the Illini to their the Illini lead to 29-19. Oklahoma State freshman

f last Final Four appearance in But Powell's jumper and two JamesOn Curry played a lot like 1989, was greeted with a stand­free throws from Augustine a senior in his first start for the ing ovation and a chorus of started a 14-5 run to close the Cowboys on Sunday. "Lou. Lou," from the crowd. half. Illinois led 47-26 at the Curry scored 17 of his career­
Henson has used a wheelchair break and Minnesota got no high 22 points in the second since a bout with viral closer than 18 points after that. half and was 6-of-8 from 3­encephalitis last fall, but he Brown also had six assists for point range -including making stood in his bright orange blaz­the Illini, who had assists on 21 all five in the second half -in er to accept the ovation just one of 33 baskets. No. 9 Oklahoma State's victory week after retiring as head Rico Tucker scored 12 points over Colorado. coach at New Mexico State. for Minnesota. Dan Coleman Curry, who started in place of 
Illinois, which wore replica had 11 and Jeff Hagen scored Daniel Bobik, helped shut down 1989 uniforms for the game, 10. Colorado freshman Richard "I had six steals and no Andy Osborn and Chris stretched its conference win­Reserve center Spencer Roby, who burned the Cowboys turnovers, that's all that mat­Copeland each scored 19 points ning streak to 17 games, tying a Tollackson left in the second (15-3, 5-2 Big 12) with four 3-ters," he said. to lead the Buffaloes, who were school record set from 1914-16. half after injuring his right knee pointers and 12 points in the Lucas scored 26 points for outrebounded 36-23. James Augustine had 15 points in a fall underneath the basket. first half. Oklahoma State, which won in The Cowboys were 13-of-21 and seven rebounds, and Monson said the injury was not Coach Eddie Sutton put Curry Boulder for the first time since on 3s, while Colorado was a Luther Head scored 10. serious and Tollackson was on Roby exclusively in the sec­Feb. 24, 1996. The Cowboys school-record 17-of-29. The 30 
It was the first time in five walking normally after the ond half, and Curry held also got their most points since 3-pointers was the most by two games that Head failed to lead game. Colorado's leading scorer to just scoring 108 against Oklahoma teams ever at Colorado's Coors Illinois in scoring. Duke 100, Virginia Tech 65 two more points in the game. in 1989, when they played in Events Center. 
"Luther wasn't shooting the Deron Washington found out "The guy played a terrific the Big 8. Oklahoma State rebounded ball (well) from 3 and Deron early what he and his Virginia game" said Curry's backcourt "I thought it was the best from a 67-57 defeat to No. 13 stepped up," Illini coach Bruce Tech teammates were up partner, John Lucas. who added offensive performance we've Oklahoma last Monday, when Weber said. "Every day it's against. he thought the pair are the best had in a long time," Sutton said. Lucas and Bobik combined to somebody else." About 90 seconds into the guard combination in the Big "When your starting guards shoot 4-for-16 and Curry scored 
Minnesota (14-6, 4-3) had game, the forward was running 12. have 48 points, .12 assists and just four points. trouble with the Illini defense back on defense when he got Curry was more reserved only one turnover, you're not The Buffaloes made 11 3­from the start, committing shoved hard from behind by about his performance. going to lose very many games." pointers in the first half. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
LOST: CAR KEYS w/Caesar s keyring near JACC Monday morn­ing. Reward offered. Call 507-304­0446. 
FoR SALE 
Pre-owned Dell computers. $100-250. 574-229-3333. Complete working computers $125 57 4-286-3295. 
One bedroom condo near UNO. Appliances $72,000 280-8160 Kim Kollar 
Hot New Spirit 'T" Shirt! Hanes Heavy Duty, Kelly Green w/Gold Imprint. Front: WEIS UP! Back: Get Nasty! $16.95 ea/2 for $30 plus S+H 574-273-8239. 
FOR RENT 
New 4-bdrm,3-bath home.Avail 8/05. Cathedral ceiling, fireplace, deluxe kitchen, skylights, 2-car garage, family room, 10x20 deck. Safe area. Call 574-232-4527 or 269-683-5038. 
COLLEGE PARK CON DOMINI­UMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BEDROOM, TWO BATHS. HURRY 
235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 

DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR 
ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BEDROOM HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBOR­HOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTE­NANCE STAFF ON CALL. ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7­8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB­SITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234­2436 OR 574-315-5032. 
Great 6-7 bdrm home available 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail­able NOW. Both Close to ND,W/D,on-site parking. ND Internet Canopy access. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year-Available June 1,2005 2 Bedrooms­2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Security System. Fully Furnished (574)233­7373 or Salvaty@earthlink.net 
TICKETS 

Spring Break 2005 with STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! Panama City. Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award Winning Company! SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678­6386 
..
. 

Cheapest 2005 Spring Break $499 all-inclusive, all drinks, all food, all parties! www.needspringbreak.com 1-866-668-9037. 1994 ND grads hoping to adopt Please see ParentProfiles.com for 
more info (Arizona/Michael & Kathryn). Ray, how·s your eye feel? 
GO IRISH 
Brendan­NO's most eligible bachelor Is it football season yet? 

215 days girls and boys. I want to go to Hawaii. ...this place is cold. 
Doyle and Diane are the coolest. pizza is good so long sammy mom send money time to go home 38 counter Fat. drunk and stupid is no way to 
go through life, son. Tha QP. 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
Monday, January 31, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 

F L M 
BROWNING CINEMA Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors, $3 all students 
Tickets go on sale each Monday before the screenings. For more information about these films, please visit http://performingarts.nd.edu. 
Maria Full of Grace (2004) 
Friday, February 4 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
Tarnation (2003) 
Saturday, February 5 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
Bonnie and Clyde ( 1967) 
Saturday, February 5 at 3 p.m. PAC CLASSIC 100 
M U S C 
South Bend Symphony Orchestra 
leighton Concert Hall Sunday, February 6 at 2:30 p.m. Composing for Paris Featuring Notre Dame Professor and Cellist Karen Buranskas Tickets: $18, $16 seniors, $8 students 
THEATRE 

Tickets can be purchased the day of the concert at 
the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Othello Dead Man Walking Arts at the University of Notre Dame or through by William Shakespeare by Tim Robbins the Morris Performing Arts Center box office at Featuring AcTORS fROM THE loNDON STAGE Directed by Siiri Scott and Jay Skelton 235-9190. leighton Concert Hall Philbin Studio Theatre 
ND Jazz Band, ND Symphonic Band, 
Friday, February 11 at 7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 26 at 7:30p.m. 
and ND Symphonic Winds 
Saturday, February 12 at 7:30 p.m. Sunday, February 27 at 2:30p.m. matinee leighton Concert Hall Tuesday, March 1 at 7:30p.m.
Tickets: $18, $16 faculty/staff, Saturday, February 19 at 2:30 p.m.
Wednesday, March 2 at 7:30 p.m.
$16 seniors, $12 all students This performance is open to the public and

Dead Man Walking is part of Spring ArtsFest: 
free, but tickets must be obtained through theThe Laramie Project Tolerance and Reconciliation DeBartolo ticket office. 
by Moises Kaufman Tickets: $12, $10 faculty/staff,Directed by Anton Juan 

$1 0 seniors, $8 all students Jen Chapin in Concert 
Decio Mainstage Theatre 

leighton Concert Hall Tuesday, February 22 at 7:30 p.m. Arcadia Sunday, February 20 at 7 p.m. Wednesday, February 23 at 7:30p.m. by Tom Stoppard Tickets: $15, $12 faculty/staff, Thursday, February 24 at 7:30 p.m. Directed by Jay Skelton $11 seniors, $8 all students Friday, February 25 at 7:30p.m. Decio Mainstage Theatre Saturday, February 26 at 7:30p.m. Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra 
Tuesday, April 12 at 7:30p.m.
Sunday, February 27 at 2:30 p.m. matinee with ND Choruses and Faculty Soloists 
Wednesday, April 13 at 7:30p.m.
Tuesday, March 1 at 7:30p.m. leighton Concert Hall
Thursday, April 14 at 7:30p.m.
Wednesday, March 2 at 7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 26 at 8 p.m.
Friday, April 15 at 7:30 p.m.
Thursday, March 3 at 7:30 p.m. Mozart's Overture to Die Zauberflote
Saturday, April 16 at 7:30p.m. 
Beethoven's Triple ConcertoThe laramie Project is part of Sunday, April 17 at 2:30 p.m. matinee and Haydn's Harmoniemesse
Spring ArtsFest: Tolerance and Reconciliation Tuesday, April 19 at 7:30p.m. Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff,
Wednesday, April 20 at 7:30p.m.
Tickets: $12, $10 faculty/staff, $4 seniors, $3 all students
Thursday, April 21 at 7:30p.m.
$10 seniors, $8 all students Friday, April 22 at 7:30 p.m. 

Joan lippincott -Organ Recital
Saturday, April 23 at 7:30p.m.Shylock Reyes Organ and Choral Hall written and performed by Gareth Armstrong Tickets: $12, $10 faculty/staff, Sunday, February 27 at 4 p.m. leighton Concert Hall $10 seniors, $8 all students Tickets: $10, $8 faculty/staff, Wednesday, February 23 at 8 p.m. $6 seniors, $3 all students Tickets: $18, $16 faculty/staff, $14 seniors, $ 1 2 all students Simon Shaheen and Qantara leighton Concert Hall Sunday, February 27 at 7:30 p.m. Tickets: $35, $28 faculty/staff, $26 seniors, $15 all students 

More event information available at http://performingarts.nd.edu 
Call 574.631.2800 for tickets and more information 
Discounted tickets are underwritten by the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. There are a limited number of student discounts available. 



OUND THE NATION 
page 14 COMPILED FROM THE 0HSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Monday, January 31, 2005 
Men's College Basketball Big East Conference 
team  Big hast  Overall  
Boston College  7-0  18-0  
Syracuse  7-1  20·2  
Pillsburgh  4-2  14·3  
NOTRE DAME  5·3  13·5  
Georgetown  5-3  13·6  
Villanova  4-3  12·4  
Connecticut  4-3  12·5  
Seton Hall  2-4  10·7  
West Virginia  2-5  12·6  
Rutgers  1-6  7-10  
St. John's  1-6  7-10  
Providence  0-6  9-10  

Women's College. Basketball Big East Conference 
team Big East ouerall 
Connecticut 6·1 13-5 Boston College 6·1 15-3 Rutgers 6-1 15·4 NOTRE DAME 6-2 18-3 Villanova 4-3 11-7 Seton Hall 4-5 12-8 West Virginia 3-5 12-7 St. John's 3-5 14-5 Pittsburgh 3·5 11-8 Syracuse 3·5 . 11-8 Georgetown 2·6 7-12 Providence 0-7 1-17 
Central College Hockey Association 
team  CCHA  overall  
Michigan  17·3·0  20·1-1  
Ohio State  15·4-1  18·7·3  
Northern Michigan  11·6·3  1H·5  
Nebraska-Omaha  10·8·2  14-16-2  
Bowling Green  9·7-2  12·9·3  
Alaska Fairban~  7·10•3  8·11·3  
Lake Superior State  6·7·5  7-13·6  
Miami (Ohio)  7-10·3  11-13-~  
Michigan State  8·9-1  13·12·2  
Ferris Slate  4-13·3  9-16·3  
Western Michigan  5·12,1  10·13~1  
NOTRE DAME  3·13·4  5-18·5  

MIAA Women's Basketall 
team  MIAA  overall  
Albion  10-1  18·2  
Hope  10-1  '17-2  
Calvin  8-3  14-4  
Tri·State  5-6  8·12  
Kalamazoo  4-6  9·10  
SAINT MARY'S  4-6  9-10  
Adrian  3-8  6·12  
Alma  2-8  7-9  
Olivet  2-9  7·12  

around the .dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Missouri at Kansas 7 p.m., ESPN Providence at Pittsburgh 9 p.m., ESPN2 
WoMEN's CoLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Georgia at Tennessee 7 p.m., ESPN2 
EXTREME SPORTS Winter X Games 12 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


Associated Press CHICAGO -Sammy Sosa was once as popular a fixture at Wrigley Field as the ivy-covered brick walls and the ancient scoreboard hanging over the center field bleachers. Fans flocked to the neighborhood ball park to watch one of his majes­tic home runs, while other congre­gated in the streets to try and retrieve one of them. Now he's on his way out of Chicago. A trade to the Baltimore Orioles for Jerry Hairston and two prospects is expected to reach Commissioner Bud Selig's desk Monday for approval. From there, Sosa would need to pass a physical and the deal could be announced Wednesday or Thursday. 
IN BRIEF 
Williams overcomes injury 
to win Australian Open 
MELBOURNE, Australia -Serena Williams was losing and in pain, wincing on almost every swing. Her shots lacked their usual zing. Her hopes for a seventh Grand Slam appeared to be doomed. 
Then, with a little help from the trainer, the woman who calls herself the toughest fighter in tennis started getting her power back. And it was top-ranked Lindsay Davenport who was in big trouble. 
Williams rallied for a 2-6, 6-3. 6-0 victory in the Australian Open final on Saturday for her first Grand Slam title in 18 months. 
She also extended her winning streak here to 14 matches. 
Injuries had played a part in Williams' fall from the top spot in women's tennis, and it looked like her health would fail her again Saturday. 
"I said: 'This is not happening again,"' she said. 
The once smiling slugger and the team he played for since 1992 are parting company. And not on happy terms. 
"Sammy has been great for base­ball and really great for the city of Chicago, and I'm sorry to see it end this way," Cubs manager Dusty Baker told the Chicago Tribune. 
"It's really not what his legacy should be. 
Sosa endeared many with his self­styled quirks -a home run hop, blowing kisses in rapid succession after retuning to the dugout, tapping his heart and racing to right field like a sprinter before each game to salute the fans in the bleachers. 
Sosa feasted on the adulation from the fans, especially at Wrigley Field. They stayed with him even after he used a corked bat in 2003. But last 
Safin defeats Hewitt to win 
Australian Open 
MELBOURNE, Australia -Marat Safin finally won the Australian Open, overpowering Lleyton Hewitt 1-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-4 on Sunday night for his first title in the Gland Slam event after two runner-up finishes in the last three years. 
The fourth-seeded Russian over­came a slow start to win his second Grand Slam title and end Hewitt's bid to become the first Australian cham­pion since Mark Edmondson won the 1976 at Kooyong. 
Safin, also the 2000 U.S. Open win­ner, ended top-ranked Roger Federer's 26-match winning streak in the semifinals Thursday before push­ing aside the pesky Hewitt in the first night championship match in Grand Slam history. Leonard overtakes falteringOglivie to win Hope 
LA QUINTA, Calif. -Justin Leonard shot a S-under 67 Sunday to overtake the faltering Joe Ogilvie and season, it began to turn as he strug­gled at the plate and the boos began to ring out from the frustrated home fans. 
He batted just .253 -his lowest average since 1997 -and in 126 games finished with 35 homers and 80 RBis. 
Sosa, who often referred to him­self as a gladiator, seemed to be sur­prised that people forgot what he had accomplished: 574 homers, including three separate seasons of at least 60, and -until last year when he had a back injury -nine straight 1 00-RBI seasons. 
Others thought the showmanship got old. And it was no secret that his boom box that often sent out loud music throughout the clubhouse was not always popular with his team­mates. 
win the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic. 
Leonard finished the 90-hole tour­nament at 28-under 332, three shots in front of Ogilvie and Tim Clark of South Africa. 
Ogilvie, still winless in his six years on the tour, had a closing 73. Clark shot 69. 
Coming off his worst year since joining the tour full-time in 1995, for­mer British Open champion Leonard rolled in six birdie putts and had just one bogey in the final round at PGA West's Palmer Course. 
He began the day three shots behind the front-running Ogilvie, who had been tied for the lead or alone at the top since the opening round of the five-day event. 
Defending champion Phil Mickelson. who also won the title in 2002, shot himself out of contention when he hit into the water on the par-4 No. 13 and took a double bogey. 
His 71 left him tied for 12th at 21 under. 

The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles drop 111eets to Albion and Calvin 
By ANNA FRICANO 
Spnns Writer 
Thn Bnllns sufl'nrnd dnf'nat this w1wknnd against two confer­once opponents. 
Both Albion and Calvin came out on top of the Bnllos, by scorns of' 157-72 and 1H4-45, rnspoctivnly. The three-team rw~nt was hostnd by Albion, cur­r!'ntly rankml at fifth place in tlw MIAA conference standings, onn spot above the Bnlles. 
Calvin currnntly sits in l'irst place, with a 5-0 roeord. Tho tPam dominatml the majority of Llw women's races, capturing lirsts in ninn of' the 13 nvnnts. 
Thn Bollns strugglml narly in tho raen against the two teams, naeh wilh about twice as many swimmors as the Saint Mary's rostnr. 
Thn f'irst event of the al'ter­noon snemed to provide a strong start for the Belles, who wore coming off a loss to Kalamazoo one week ago. The Saint Mary's 200-yard medley relay team rnadn up of sopho­mores Bridget Lebiedz and Nieole Kortn, freshman Kelly Tighe and junior Sarah Nowak placnd third in the event. 
llownver, in the next women's event, the 1,000-yard fre1~style, the Belles were unable to sneurn a scoring spot. For the rest of' the afternoon, tho Belles snnmed to bfl pushnd out of top scoring posilions by an array of' swimmers from their oppo­nents. 
The sheM numbers of the other teams seemed to be tho biggest factor in the outcome of tho meet. Calvin has a women's team made up of 22 swimmers and Albion has 29 swimmers on the team. 
With a Saint Mary's roster comprised of only 14 swim­mers, the Belles eould not keep up with the depth of their oppo­rwnts. 
The only lirst-plaee finish for the Belles on Saturday carne from Nowak in the 200-yard individual mndley, finishing in 2 minutes, 16.H4 seconds. Nowak also came in second in the 200­yard breaststroke. 
.Junior Kelly Nelis came in third in the 50-yard freestyle with a time of 26.62, as well as taking f'ou~th in the 500-yard freestyle. Junior Katie Dingeman placed fourth in the 200-yard breaststroke, finishing in 2:34.52. Lebiedz and Nelis also contributed to the second­place finish made by the 200­yard freestyle relay, along with teammates Bridget Green and Lisa Balog. · 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

MEN'S TRACK 
Benninger blazes through strong field in 3,000 meters 
Irish take first place in seven events at tune-up for Meyo 
By NATHAN DYER 

Sports Writer  
It was a  day for great per­ 
sonal  accomplishment  
Saturday,  as  the Irish wel­ 

comed Grand Valley State, Marquette, Michigan State, Loyola Chicago, DePaul and Butl(;}r to the Loftus Sports Center for the Notre Dame Indoor Invitational Meet. In a non-scoring meet, the men's team won seven events while the Irish women took 10. 
Sophomore Kurt Benninger stole the show, winning the 3,000 motors with the fastest time in the NCAA, 7 minutes, 
59.39 seconds. Benninger's great race not only qualil'ied him for the NCAA Championships, but was only the fourth time an Irish ath­lete has broken the eight­minute mark in the 3,000. 
"I was really happy to break eight minutes," Benninger said. "Hopefully my time stands up for the NCAA !Championships!, but I just Multiple true frnshmen also have to let the rest of the sea­performed very well. Hunning son go as it may." in tho ROO meters for the first 
Fellow teammates and time in his earner, Adam spectators watched as Currie won the evnnt with a Bp,nninger sepa-time of 1:50.29, rated himself threatening thn from the pack qualifying mark early on, running "As a team we ran for the NCAA 
68-second quar­very well. All ofthe Championships 
ter-mile splits in thn process
guys really
from the begin­and putting ning of' the race stepped up their himself in the to the end, and focus and intensity, mix to bo orw of 
simply never tho top eon­
and we had a very
looked back. tenders for the Benninger good meet." Big East title. looks to become Fellow fresh­the third Notre man .Jamal
Kurt Benninger 
Dame runner in Afridi qualified
distance runner
history to run a sub-four-minute mile nnxt Satur­day in the Meyo Mile at Loftus. 
"As a team we ran very well. All of the guys roally stepped up their focus and intensity and we had a very good meet," Benninger said. 
Senior Selim Nurudeen con­tinued his irnprp,ssivc career, again corning in first place in the 60-meter hurdles with a time of 7.H6 seconds. The senior stalwart carne only .01 seconds short from claiming first in the 60-rneter dash with a time of 6.~5 seconds. 
f'or thn  Big East  
Champion-ships  
in  tho  ROO­ 
meter  run  with  a  time  of  
1:55.08.  

"The meet was a great tune-up for next wnek 's Moyo Invitational," Af'ridi said, "IThatl will really show us where our training is at against sonH~ of the best schools in the nation." 
The Irish will host tho Meyo Invitational Friday and Saturday, with events begin­ning at 7 p.m. Friday. 
Contact Nathan Dyer at ndyer@nd.edu 

Join us for THE EIGHTH ANNUAL GLB RETREAT FEBRUARY 4-5 
A 24:-hour retreat for questioning, bisexual, lesbian and gay students and their friends. 
Sign up in 114 Co-Mo or online at 
campusministry.nd.edu by Jan. 31 
EVERYONE Is WELCOME! 
QUESTIONS? EMAIL AMAGEE@ND.EDU ORDZIMLICH@ND.EDU 
SPONSORED BY: CAMPUS MINISTRY 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, J~~axe, 2005 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Brey issues challenge, team responds with win 
It wasn't when the little lep­rechaun sitting on the rim pre­vented Marcus Williams' layup from tying the game that told Mike Brey the Irish would come out victorious Sunday after­noon. 
It was when the where-has­that-been-all­season dunk came from the suddenly dominant Torin Francis 

a eouple min­utes earlier Sports Writer that told Brey the Irish would get the much-needed win. 
"It's almost like we were thinking we're going to get this one today," Brey said. "You're in this business long enough and the games and there's a flow to them. You're thinking that's a heck of an exclamation point." 
That's the impact play the Irish have been waiting to get in the magnitude of a game they have been waiting to win all season. Out of nowhere 
After two disappointing road losses and the missml opportu­nity against Syraeuse three weeks prior to Sunday, no one expected this type of perform­ance out of the Irish. 
So where did it come from? 
It came from a challenge by their coach. 
One heck of a challenge. 
"I challenged their manhood [on] Wednesday night after the game at Villanova and the last two days, and I'm going to chal­lenge it ItodayI." Brey dead­panned after the game Sunday. "It's funny, we all know when that's challenged, especially us males, we react. · 

"I thought they reacted well." 
Brey's challenge triggered something in his players. 

It triggered something in Dennis Latimore to be the type of player many expected to see after he transferred from Arizona. 
It triggered something in Chris Quinn to drive to the bas­ket and be, as Brey said, a two guard in the Big East that peo­ple should have trouble guard­ing. 
It triggered desperation in the minds of the players in the lock­er room. 
"Our backs were against the wall," Irish co-captain Jordan Cornette said. "I don't know if we realized that more now. I wish we had realized that the whole time, but it's go time and everybody realizes that. 
"We weren't coming out of here today with a loss." 

Until being faced with their postseason options hanging in the balance, the Irish didn't play with any sense of urgency. 
And finding that urgency resulted in their best win of the season. 
Think back to after the Irish made a good offensive play Sunday, backpedaling down court, Chris Thomas would call out defenses and not be cele­brating with the rest of the crowd. 
Recall the noise of the scor­er's table echoing throughout the Joyce Center after Brey kicked it midway through the second half when the Irish fell behind 58-52. 
The Irish wanted and needed this game.They wanted it more than Connecticut. Jim Calhoun acknowledged after the game that the Irish made more plays down the stretch necessary to win such a big-time game. 
For the first time· all season, they refused to lose. And they didn't. 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

Bouvron, Irish cotne up short at Michigan 
individual medley, posting an By MIKE TENNANT NCAA "B" cut time of 2 min­Spons Writer utes, 3.75 seconds. 
"When I dove in my goggles fell a little, so I think the only
There were ups and downs 

thing on my mind was to finishthis weekend in Ann Arbor, and the race as soon as possible so Iin the end Michigan prevailed could see again," Carroll said. 
yet again. 

Carroll is the defending BigThe No. 25 Irish won seven East Champion in the event,events Friday at the University 
and was an honorable All­
of Michigan, but it was not American selection, but hasenough, and the No. 17 

been sidelined for most of theWolverines won the meet 161­year by injuries.
138. 

"I haven't had many meets
Leading the way for the Irish this year so I kind of wanted to was fifth-year senior and All­

make a statement not only to
American diver Meghan Perry-my coaches but also to the Big

Eaton. The Big East 

East ... tell them 'we're ready,"'
Championship's Most 
Carroll said. 
Outstanding Diver in both 2003 Bouvron won both the 100and 2004 won both springboard and 200-yard butterfly events. 

diving events, breaking her own Her time in the 200 of 2:01.95 

record on the 1-meter board by was nearly five seconds fasteralmost six points. Her score of than the rest of the field, and

328.43 on the 1-meter board 

she missed the NCAA "B" cut by
was almost 15 points better 

a slim three-tenths of a second.
than runner-up Alexis Goolik. 

It was the fastest time in theAlso highlighting the trip for 
Big East. 
the Irish were sophomore Katie Carroll and junior Olympian Christel Bouvron. Contact Mike Tennant 
Carroll won the 200-yard at mtennant@nd.edu 
What's it all mean? 
On paper, it's a win -a very good win -for the NCAA tour­nament resume. It gets the Irish to 5-3 at the halfway portion of the Big East schedule. In this conference, that's no small feat. 
In the locker room, it does even more. 
It tells the backcourt making double-digit 3-pointers isn't mandatory to win, even against one of the better frontcourts in the country. 
It gives them confidence going into the next three gamlls against three more ranked teams. 
Now Brey's job is to knep the confidence from going too high. With this veteran team, that shouldn't be hard. 
Yes, the loeker room was upbeat after the game, but Brey's postgame press confer­ence was low-key. 
That's because Brey knows it's only one game. And he knows what's coming up in the next three games. 
In the Big East, that's the only way to take it. Every game is extremely valuable and getting too high or too low after each one will do more harm than good by March. 
That's why Brey's mood didn't hit those extremes during the past three games. 
"I wasn't suicidal after Georgetown and Villanova," Brey said. ''I'm going to go home, have dinner and be thankful we're 5-3." 
Before going home, Brey might want to stop at the Grotto on the way. 
And light a candle for that lit­tle leprechaun. 

The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. I 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd. edu 


ND WOMEN'S TRACK 

Cowan clears bar for Irish 
and triple jump titles. By RYAN KEIFER A trio of Irish freshmen Sports Writer emerged victorious this week­
end as well. Sunni Olding, a contributing member of Notre After Stacey Cowan cleared Dame's fourth-place NCAA the high jump bar, 1.80 meters cross country team, won her above the Loftus Center field, first ever collegiate track race, she hit the mat and let out a taking the mile in a personal squeal of joy. This expression best time of 4 minutes, 51.98 
of  emotion  seconds.  
summed up her  Brienne Davis  
feeling and that of  "Our milers were  won  the  200  
her entire team as the Notre Dame women's track team domi­ especially impressive, as we had several  meters and sprint standout Dominique Manning won  
nated its second straight home meet.  {personal records] in that race. "  the 60-meter hurdles. The success of the  
The Irish dupli­ youngest mem­ 
cated last week's performance by winning 10 of 15  Tim Connelly Irish coach  bers of Notre Dame's team was a highlight  
events.  of  Saturday's  

Cowan's jump, her personal meet in the eyes of coach Tim best this season, and fourth Connelly. best in the NCAA this season, "We had a lot of success on was one of many highlights for Saturday with PR's [personal the Irish on Saturday. records I, and victories, but I 
Tiffany Gunn dominated the was most impressed with our 400 and 500-meter events, inexperienced runners who winning both in personal best ran solid races, Connelly said. times. Petra Dankova won "Our milers were especially both of the horizontal jumping impressive, as we had several events by taking the long jump PR's in that race," 
Other winners included Maryann Erigha in the 60­meter dash and Meghan Horn in the shot put. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 


Poker Tables from $299.00 
Rentals Available 
Large Selection of Game Tables, Supplies and Table Toppers. 50S 10 St. Rd. 933N • South Bead 

574·272-1617 
Monday, January 3 I, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page I 7 
Wake 
continued from page 20 
Connolly dindwd tlw doublos point. boating Katie Martzolf and Daniello Schwartz H-1 at No. 2 and improving their rncord to 14-4, and a ;{-1 record in dualrnatdws. 
Sarah Jane Connelly said sm:uring th1~ doublos point was pivotal to the loam's success. 
"It's so important to gel the doubles point," Conrwlly said. "It.'s 1~asier to win thrne singles matchns instoad of four and thorn's a lot loss pressure." 
Adding to tho tnam's momen­tum. sophonwn~ twins Catrina and Christian Thompson dnfeat­nd No. :B Karin Coetznn and Ashlon Davis X-:~ at No. I. The nationally rankod No. 2 Thompsons rnmain unbeaten this spring and arn 12-2 this ymu·. 
No. X!> Buck capitalizod on the toam's momentum following sin­gles, upsotting No. 16 Contzoe 6­1, 6-1 at No. 2 singles. Coetzoe had bonn a 2004 NCM singles Championship qualifier last year, and has been ranked as high as No. 10 during her careor. Coetzce, who hails from South Africa, was the runner-up in last fall's ITA Southeast Championships. 
At No. 6, Alex llirsch collected the tirst point for Wake Forest, boating junior Liz Donohue 6-3, 6-3. But Connelly extended her six match winning streak, put­ting the team within a point of tho victory, besting Schwartz 6­4, 6-4 at No. 4. 
Stastny <:!inched the win for the Irish at No. 5, with a victory ovnr Jnnna LoP.b 6-3, 6-1. At No. 3 singles, Christian Thompson follownd up Stastny's win, claim­ing a vietory over Martzolf 6-2, CJ-2 to extond the Irish advan­tage to 5-1. 
No. (,<} Catrina Thompson was tlw last to walk on· tho courts, 

MEN'S SWIMMING 
Team posts 3 wins over the weekend 
Hy RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
'ipomWrirt•r 
I·: mol ion a lly-d r a i 11 ing Iossns usually sol up two s1:onarios for a lPanl. Orw, il can fold and drop a !'ontnsl that should have bonn wilhin its grasp. Or two. a team 1·arr dig deep and make a state­rrwrrt in il'i following competition. 
This weekend, Notre Damn prowd il'> nwtlln, falling into the se1:oml s1:mmrio. 
Swimming with passion, the No. 21 Irish erased any lingering doubts following their heart­breaking loss to No. 14 Northwestnrn last Saturday. Posting throe solid vil:torios on tlw road. Notre Damn (9-2) swept past both ClnvPland State (X-3) and Canisius (0-10) on Friday and St. Bonaventure (6-4) on Saturday. 
"Wn wanted it to bn Ia statn­mmrt swim)," !wad coach Tim Welsh said. "Wn talkod al't.nr fin­ishing our meet last wonk about how tho rnst of our season was on tho road and tho I Big EastI ( :tmrnpionships were on the road. In the Championships, we race at night and the following morning so we wantnd to be ahlfl to race well one night and then again the li1llowing morning." 
Tho Irish sot linrr Heilly Center Pool records on route to a 150-87 victory against St. Bonaventure on Saturday afternoon. Finishing lirst in all 11 swimming Pvents and both diving competitions, Notre Damn showed li~w si),'llS of fatiguo al't.or its Friday dual-meet. 
.Junior Doug Bauman, junior Patrick Davis and f'rnshman Jay VandenBerg set individual pool rneords in tho 200-yard back­stroke (1 minute, 51.()2 sm:onds), tlw 500-yard fwestyle (4:3H.HO) and thn 1,000-yard frenstyln (1):23.51 ). Thn 400-yard medley relay team of Bauman, junior Tyler c;renda, sophomore Tim Kegelman and senior Frank Frakowski rounded out the Irish quartd of pool rm:ords, with a timl' of :J:26.52. 
"What's intornsling is tho sym­nwtrical-ness of it all." Welsh said. "Northwostorn sot four pool records against us on Saturday and l.hnn we went out and set four pool rncords against St. Bonaventure this Saturday." 
Tlw Irish propelled thmnselves to a quick start, leading 29-6 al't.er two 1wenl'i. Notn~ Damn won the 400 medley relay by morn than six semnds in thn first raco of the mo1~t. broaking the pool reeord. 
"The 'got a good start and irH:roasn your load' philosophy works nvnry time but it's just hard to do," Welsh said. 
The margin would only widen from there. Sophomore Louis Cavadini and senior David Moisan took tho two top spots in the 200­yard freestyle race with times of I :44.H7 and 1 :45.9H, respoctivoly. 
Saturday's competition wasn't the only source for individual Irish accolades. Sophomore Ted Brown (9:22.HH) and Davis 
(9:25.02) also posted the two fastest unshavp,d 1,000-yard frnestyln times in Irish history during Friday's meet at Cleveland Statn. 
En route to their 137-101 victo­ry against Cleveland State and a 172-53 win against Canisius, the Irish again got ofl' to a quick start. Tho tnam won seven of the first nino raens to set the pace early. 
Aftnr sweeping through the weekend's meets, the Irish also dinchnd their eighth winning sea­son in the last 1 0 yp,ars. 
"Obviously, a winning record is where we start from and we'd like to do that every yoar," Welsh said. "Our focus this year has been really on getting ready for the Championships. If we race well along the way, a winning rncord is what comes with it." 
Notre Dame only has one more regular-season meet ahead.-a road moot at Oakland University in Hoehestor, Mich. Beyond that mont, the Big East Championships loom. 
And with all the success the Irish havn achievnd this season, they'll be hungry to make one final statnment on tho season. 
"Tho nxcitement mounts," Welsh said. "We are in a count­down until the start of the Big East Championship. And yet the meet Saturday at Oakland is an important preparation rnop,t !br us. We think that thorn's plenty to got done to make sure we're as ready as possible for our Big East <:hampionship run." 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 

falling to the No. 77 Davis. In the fiercely contested mateh at No. 1 singles. Davis pulled ahead in the tiebreaker 7-6 (7-5), 2-(>, 1-0 (1 0-H) to tally the Deacon's limtl point. 
Sarah Jane Connelly said although tho Irish walked away with the vietory Sunday after­noon, the Deacons proved to bo anything but a pushover. 
"Wake Forest was detinitely a bettp,r team than their No. 30 ranking," Connelly said. "We really had to compete today." 
The Irish will take a brief respite from eompetition before taking on No. 35 Harvard on Feb. 11. Connelly said the team plans to utilize that time oil' to recover and to revitalizn them­selves for the rest of their rigor­ous sehedulf1. 
"We're not stopping here," Connelly said. "There's still a lot more wins to get this season." 
Contact Ann Loughery at aJougher@nd.edu 
Win 
continued from page 20 
cnt as Sunday's final two match­es draggnd into third sets, with tho Irish on the sidelines throwing themselves into supporting their teanunatos on the court. 
The No. 34 Irish improved to 6-0 with the weekend's viet.ories. 
In Saturday's action, tho Irish began their rout of the Tar lloels with victories at No. 2 and No. 3 doubles. Parbhu and Eric Langenkamp put the Irish within a point as they posted an H-3 win at No. 2, and Stnphen Bass and Barry King followed with an H-6 win at No. 3 to seal the point for thn Irish. 
Patrick Buchanan quickly fin­ished David Stone at tho No. 6 spot with a straight snt 6-3, 6-4 victory. Bass went down to No. 66 Haian Luehici at No. 1, but tiHl Irish quickly rebounded as Parbhu topped Benjamin Carlotti 6-3, 6-2 at No.4. 
The clincher came at No. 3, as King usnd a sm:ond-snt tiebrnaknr to dol(mt Gnoll' Boyd 6-4, 7-6 (7-0). 
Akhvlndiani would be sidelinnd with an ankle sprain li1r Sunday's rnateh, and Bass spnnl Satruday night in the emergency room all.nr getting a partido stuck in his eyo. llowever, tho Irish c1uno out strong again in doublns against Florida State. 
Although Bass and King would lose at No. 3 in a quil:k H-2 show­down, D'Ami<:o and Km:kloy hnld fast to an H-6 win mid Langenkamp and Parbhu dinchod tho point with an 8-4 dolimt of tho Seminoles. 
The singles matches turned into nail biters, however, as Bud1m1an's strenuous nlliwl'i in tho second set could not sm:ure a vi!:l.ory at No. 5. Ilis 6-1, 7-5 Joss prnc1~dod Keckll~y's 7-5, 6-4 vi<:tory at No. 6. Bass had chanens in a (>-4, 6-4 dnlimt at tho hands of Mat Cloer at No. 1, but WfL'i unablo to gnt ahnad. 
Contact Kate GaJes at kgales@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 

Irish lose 2 straight to Falcons 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Sports W1·irer 
Tho look on Morgan Coy's face midway through the third pnriod of Saturday night's game against Bowling Green said it 
all. 

The Irish goalie looked dis­mayed while leaning ovnr the team bench, watching Notre · Dame finish out a 6-2 loss, tlwir eighth eonseeutive defeat dating 
back to Jan. 7. 
For the Irish, it has been a 
season of frustration, a seem­
ingly endless amount of losing, 
whieh again came to light this 
weekond as the Irish dropped 
both games to Bowling Grnon in 
a home-and-home series. 
Friday night's game started 
out with the Falcons getting 
three·quick goals in the first 
12:46 of the first pP-riod. 

Taylor Christie scored for Bowling Green at H:33, putting a rebound past Irish goaltender David Brown. 
Just over three minutes later, Hyan Minnabarriet scored at 

11:42 on the power play for the Faleons, after a Brett Pilkinhrton shot dellected oiT Brown right to Minnabarriet who was in per­fect position for the put back. 
Things did not improve for 

Notrp, Dame. 
About a minute later, at 

12:46, Steve Brudzewski scored 
on a one-timer from James 
Unger, who was situated behind 
the net. 
Irish right wing Michael Bartlett scored midway through the second period at 10:23 to cut the Bowling Green load to 3­
1. But another Minnabarriet goal early in the third period at 
5:23 put the game out of roach. 
Saturday night, both teams 

traveled to the Joyce Cnnter to 
play the second of two games, 
but the only thing that changed 
for the Irish was the arena and 
the final score in the loss. 
Once again, the Irish quickly 

found themselves down early in 
the game. 
James Unger started the scor­

ing at 13:30, when he took the 
puck from the left side, beat an 
Irish defender and found him­
sell' with an open net to give 
Bowling Green a 1-0 lead. 
Bowling Grof1n quiekly added on another goal at 14:10, when Alex Foster found Mike Falk in front of the net with another look at an open goalmouth. 
"At that point we had given up two scoring chancp,s and two goals," Irish coach Dave Poulin said. 
"We showed them tape this morning of the game Ion FridayJ and it was eerily like last night's game whnro we played very well for a lot of the game, and wo had our chancp,s again tonight. 
"We have to bury our chances early in the game before it's out of hand." 
Unfortunately for the Irish, things did get out of hand. 
Early in the second period, Falk scored his second goal of the game at 2:20 whnn Jonathon Matsumato found thf1 Bowling Green forward in front of the crease with another open look. 
The scoring continued for Bowling Groen when they tacked on two more goals at 
9:17 and 9:27 in tho second period by Minnabarriet and Derek Whitmore, pushing the score to 5-0 -and prompting Poulin to pull goalie Morgan Coy from the game. 
Minnabarriet's goal carne on a 5-on-3, a play Poulin identified as the turning point in a game, which was still very much in reach. 
"The call to put us two men short ... the interpretation was a directive on the NCAA video, and it didn't lit the description to me at all," Poulin said. "And then I watchPd it on video, and it cJp,arly didn't." 

Jason Paige was whistled for hitting the goalie, despite Poulin's contention that Sigalet was never toudwd. 
Matt Amado put the Irish on the board at 19:14 for tho Irish aftnr a Bowling Grcnn turnover left tho Irish forward with the puck in the slot. Amado boat Sigalet liu· the tirst Irish goal of the night 
Bowli'ng Groen and Notre Dame traded third period goals, as Ben Geelan seorod on a onn­timer from Minnabarrint for the Falcons at 6::n, and Mark Van Guilder scored on the power play from in front of the net at 
15:09 for the Irish. 

Following tho ganw, Poulin had an optimistic view about the way in which the Irish played in the losses. 
"You 'ro going to look at this weekend and say we got swept 4-1 and h-2, and I'm going to look at it and say you start to play woll bdoro you win and unfortunatnly wo playod bnttnr this wenknnd than wo'vo had," he said. 
Notn~ Damn will have to rogroup l'or a pair of' homo games next wonkcnd against Nebraska-Clrnaha. 
Of' tho eight remaining gamos for the Irish, six of' them arn home -ono of' those homo matehos sehedulod to be play1~d in Fort Wayne against Michigan. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, January 31, 2005 
Fencers 
continued from page 20 
that time, including the duals with Penn State and Northwestern. coach Janusz Bednarski did not mind finishing out the day Sunday without one of his top fencers. 
"We need to give the backup fencers some experience," he said. 
While the women were able to avenge their sole defeat, the No. 4 ranked men's team was unable to beat the Buckeyes in their sec­ond try, losing by an identical 16­11 score. Despite another strong effort in the epee, where the Irish, led by senior Michael Sobieraj and sophomore Aaron Adjemian, dominated the Buckeyes 7-2, the team could not niuster much of an attack in the other two weapons. The Irish attack was especially frustrated in the sabre, where Ohio State, led by two-time defending cham­pion Adam Crompton, swept the Irish 9-0. 

"I expected the loss. The result is not showing the intensity of the bouts; lots of bouts were 5-4," Bednarski said, adding "however, we should not lose 9-0." 
The loss was not the only one for the Irish men, as No. 2 Penn State bettered them 15-12 on Saturday. The defeat was again characterized by an opponent's domination in one weapon ­this time in the foil. The foils, who are struggling without All­American Derek Snyder who will miss the season recovering from hand surgery, managed to win only two matches against the Nittany Lions. Led by an unde­feated Soberiaj, the epeeists highlighted a 42-3 day by win­ning six of nine. 
The women, on the other hand upheld their perfect record, defeating No. 3 Penn State 16-11 on Saturday. Kryczalo, Ament, Zagunis, and sophomore sabre Valerie Providenza led the charge against the Nittany Lions, with all of them going undefeat­ed. The match featured a rematch of the 2004 sabre title bout, as defending champ Providenza again defeated Sophia Hiss, this time by a score of 5-4. 
"The women's team really did a great job," Bednarski said. 
The Irish faced little other competition, as both the men's and women's teams rolled through the rest of the field. Despite its No. 6 ranking, Northwestern, who only fields a women's team, proved to be no match, as the Irish easily defeat­ed them 20-7. The women and men triumphed over Michigan by scores of 25-2 and 24-3, respec­tively, and both squads had iden­tical scores against Wisconsin, Cal-State Fullerton and Michigan State by respective scores of 27­0, 25-2 and 24-3. 
Bednarski was pleased with Saturday's results. 
"We beat Penn State in women's, lost minimally in men, and overall we beat them," he 


Francis 
continued from page 20 
from long range but outscored Connecticut (12-5, 4-3) 38-20 in the paint Sunday to come away with a much-needed 78-74 win at the Joyce Center. 
"This is the team we said we were going to be at the begin­ning of the season," Chris Thomas said. 
Notre Dame connected on 6­of-23 3-point attempts, but the team shot 42.6 percent overall and made of 14-of-20 free throws, all of which came in the second half'. 
Torin Francis led the Irish with 19 points, grabbing seven rebounds and limiting Connecticut center Josh Boone -who averages 14.8 points and 
9.6 rebounds-to six points and two rebounds. 

"We really battled physically today," coach Mike Brey said. ''I'm really proud of our front­line. I think they responded in the Villanova game, especially Torin, but to do what they did on the backboard and scoring inside was a key to the game Itoday]." 
The Irish had 36 rebounds to the IIuskies' 41, a formidable showing considering Connect­icut leads the nation in rebound­ing. 
Thomas reinforced his belief in the importance of an established inside game. 
"We just want to make an effort to get our big [guys] touch­es, get them confident," he said. "So many teams have been going inside against us, so we want to be able to counter that with our big [guys] having confidence on the offensive end as well." 
Francis, Dennis Latimore (12 points, nine rebounds) and Hiek Cornett (six points, one rebound) gave Notre Dame its first consis­tent inside-out offensive sets of the season. Francis, however, was the star against one of the nation's top frontcourts in Boone, Charlie Villanueva and freshman Rudy Gay. 
"The perimeter has confidence in me," Francis said. "They are giving me the ball down low. They know I'll make the right decision if I get doubled, I'll kick it out. If I don't, I' II take it up strong." 
Connecticut coach Jim Calhoun did not elect to double­team Francis often, and in the waning stages of the game it cost the Huskies. 
With 2:44 remaining in the game and Connecticut up 74-72, Francis took a baseline pass from Thomas and flushed the said. "[Saturday] was a pretty good day." 

The Irish continued their· suc­cess on Sunday. Other than the men's loss to Ohio State, both teams cruised through the rest of the teams, topping Cleveland State, Detroit, Lawrence, Wayne State and Chicago without diffi­culty. 
ball down over Villanueva for the basket and the foul. The Irish center missed the foul shot out of the TV timeout, but the Huskies did not score the rest of the way. 
Connecticut's defeat was sealed with 15 seconds remain­ing. Husky sophomore point guard Marcus Williams (1 0 points, 16 assists) stripped Notre Dame's Chris Quinn but missed the layup to tie the game. 
Thomas made two foul shots to extend the lead to four and end the ballgame. 
Following a jumper by Connecticut guard Denham Brown (9-of-15, 20 points) with 
5:07 to go, Thomas scored or assisted on every Notre Dame basket to close out the game. His 3-point shot to answer Brown's jumper gave the Irish momen­tum and helped them hold Connecticut scoreless for the final 3:09 of the game. 
"This team doesn't need my scoring," Thomas said. "It needs my confidence. It needs my play­making ability. And that's what I did. I saw the opportunity there and I put in the dagger." 
The Irish win snapped a two­game losing streak after Notre Dame dropped consecutive Big East contests to Georgetown (55­
54} and Villanova (65-60} this past week. 
"We've kind of been all over the board with different people stopping up at different times of the season," Thomas said. "But right now we have to ride what's working for us, and we're con­trolling tempo." 
Notre Dame played a quicker tempo Sunday, going into the half' with Connecticut up 41-39. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Huskies 
continued from page 20 
had lost at home in a regular season Big East game since a Feb. 27, 1993 contest against Georgetown. 
"We're extremely excited and proud of our emlrt tonight," Duffy said. "We've never come into Storrs and beaten them on their home court. It was a total team etfort." 
Notre Dame All-American Jacqueline Batteast logged 37 min­utes, but was mostly ineffective thanks to having the stomach flu. She fini<>hed the game just 3-of-17 from the field for nine points. 
Despite Batteast's struggles, the Irish still got payback on their biggest conference rival. 
"I thought we were more aggres­sive and not intimidated, and I just felt we played our game and did what they did to us," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Notre Dame forced 16 first-half turnovers and converted those pos­session changes into 17 points. Extending their 2-:~ zone defense and using a full-court press at times, the Irish continuously pres­sured Connecticut's point guards and intercepted numerous sloppy cross-court passes. 
"I thought they took a lot of time off the clock. and we were able to get some deflections which led to steals," McGraw said. 
Notre Dame took command of the game late in the first half by sprinting off a 1 0-0 run that helped give the Irish a 34-24 hall'time advantage. 
But Connecticut came roaring back in the second half, cutting the lead down to two at 38-36 on a Jessica Moore layup with just more than 16 minutes left. The Irish bat­tled to stay in front, and extended their lead back to seven when Charel Allen drained a field goal with 10:58 remaining. Allen ended the game with 11 points on 5-of-6 shooting. 

With 4:36 left, Ann Strother, who finished the game with 25 point'> and seven 3-pointers, drilled a 3­pointer to trim Notre Dame's lead to just one at 52-51. On the ensu­ing Irish possession, Batteast near­ly lost the ball out of bounds before firing a pass to Allen in the comer of the court. With the shot clock winding down, the freshman swi<;hed a 3-pointer, putting Notre Dame back up by four. 
Notre Dame extended its lead to five on a LaVere layup before Strother hit another 3-pointer to make the score 61-59. The Huskies quickly fouled Duffy, who came into the game as the fourth-best free throw shooter in the nation at 
91.6 percent. The junior calmly sank both shots and all but ended Connecticut's hopes for a come­back. 
"This whole season I've just had a great amount of confidence at the free throw line," DuffY said. "It was so loud with the fans and everything. We needed two points, and I just stepped up and there were absolutely no nerves whatso­ever." 
The win puts the Irish at 19-3 and 6-2 in Big East play and drops Connecticut to 13-5 overall and 6-1 in the conference. 
Notre Dame faces Boston College at the Joyce Center Wednesday 
· International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 
The University of Notre Dame 
INNSBRUCK PROGRAM 
Is accepting applications for the 2005-2006 Academic Year 
Extended ~pplication deadline: February 1, 2005 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 


Questions?-Weber.15@nd.edu 
Despite their early accomplish­ments, the team leaders do not seem inclined to rest on their accomplishments. 
"In the long run, we have to keep moving forward," Walton said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 

Applications Available www/nd.edu/--intlstud 
Monday, January 31, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
DILBERT 
SCOTT ADAMS 


PEANUTS 
CHARLES SCHULZ 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 God of love 5 Diehard 9 Give the heave-
ho 14 Audition goal 15 Pet on "The 
Flintstones" 16 Bravery 17 Start of a Yogi 
Berra quote 19 Online periodical, briefly 
20 "Thi.~ is only 
21 Ear part 23 Off the wall 24 Susan who 
wrote "Illness as Metaphor" 26 Peruvian beast 28 End of 17-Across 33 Russian leader of old 
36 Knock the socks off of 37 African fly 38 _ Lilly & Co. 
39 Alternative to dial-up Internet: Abbr. 40 "Quiet!" 41 Cheerios 
ingredient 42 The "r" in 1tr2 44 When a plane is 
due to take off: Abbr. 45 B& B's 46 Start of a Yogi Berra quote 49 Mild cigar 50 New Haven collegians 54 Prefix with bytes or bucks 57 Out of control 59 Spice of life 60 Spend, as energy 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


62 End of 46-Across 64 Ditch digger's tool 65 Plant's start 66 Slightly 67 Play (around) 68 Bookie's quote 69 Telescope part 
DOWN 1 Diva performances 2 "Live Free or Die," for New Hampshire 3 Mary-Kate and Ashley_ 
(celebrity twins) 4 Antares, e.g. 5 Modifying word: 
Abbr. 6 Small container 
for liquids 7 Entail 8 Two-base hit 9 Christmas 
1oThe 1920's 11 Pen name for Charles Lamb 12 It's south of 
Mass. 13 Deuce topper 18 And others: 
Abbr. 22 Environmental­ists' celebration 25 Boxer's weak 
spot 27 Beat to a pulp 29 Harry Potter's 
messenger bird Hedwig, e.g. 30 Lots and lots 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 


31 "No man  40 TV classic "The  51 Seeing red  
island ..." 32 New Jersey  Erwin Show"  52 Big name in bottled water  
hoopsters  43 What bouncers  53 Mails  
33 Actress Garr  check  54 Net material  
34 Venetian blind part  44 Went from apes to humans  55 Giant fair 56 Cyclist's choice  
35 Gives a hand  45 Prohibited  58 Monopoly card  
39 Old-fashioned  47 Melodious  61 Golf peg  
showdown  48 Volcano flow  63 Hwys.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
I WOGAL ± 
DE GAL 
tiJ 
tMOANAZ±

J r J
1 
www.Jumble.com 

~ KOYDEN ± 
J I [ J I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

WHAT He E::NDE::D UP WITH WHeN HE: ATE' ALL THe DOUGHNUT?. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 

"'-...<..L.~~~~~~~~r.>""".;su~g~gested by the above cartoon. 
A: A 

..rI I I I I J" rI I xJ 
(Answers tomorrow) saturday's I Jumbles: CYCLE LARVA KINDLY BANGLE Answer: After an hour-long battle with the marlin, the fisherman was-"REELING" 
EUGENIA LAST
HoRoscoPE 
CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: Amanda Peel. 33; Mary J. Blige, 34; Kim Coles, 39; Naomi Judd, 59 
Happy Hirthday: This is an ideas year for you. Do your research and make a few sample runs before you go full tilt. Don't let anyone push you into doing lon much. too fast. You know your own capabilities and what works hest for you. so stick to it and head to victory. Your numbers are II, 14, I!l. 27. 39, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): If someone is nice to you. it doesn't mean lhat he or she is on your side. Watch your back when it comes lo work-related matters. 
** 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): As long as you keep moving and lalk to people viewing your situation from the outside, you stand to henelit. Someone close to you will cause trouble. ** GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): Sign up for a course that will help you professionally. A business trip will pay off in terms of the deal you close. You can meet someone interesting. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): Money--or the lack of it--may be on your mind. A partnership may be on shaky ground if you don't agree on a budget or how money should be spent. Compromise. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't get into a deep. dark discussion with someone who is nagging or criticizing you. Concentrate on gelling ahead professionally and you will make progress. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Do your homework before you make a big purcha.~e. Don't let a fast talker push you into closing a deal you aren't ready to close. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): The coast may appear to be clear, but if you leave your work unauended or in the hands of one of your peers, you can expect to come back to a mess. A love interest is in the picture. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Not the best day to make decisions that will affect your personal life or your home. Asking questions and looking at other possibilities will pay off. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Someone you least expect will hend over backwards to help you when you are in need. This act of kindness will give you a different perspective on life, love and your future. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): An interesting tum of events will occur with respect to how you earn your living. Times are changing and so arc you, so don't settle for a position that is leading nowhere. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will be inclined to blurt nul how you feel and what you expect from others today. Try not to go overboard. or someone you really care about will turn around and walk away. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be considered Robin Hood today for your generous offerings and quiet way of doing things for others. Less publicity will bring you what you need to further your position. **** 
Birthday Baby: You are sturdy. steadfast and very in tune with what is going on around you. You have a great outlook that will always win you points. You can lead as well as follow. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadrice.com and eugenia/ast.com. 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
THE OBSERVER 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________ Address _______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, January 31, 2005 
page 20 
N 0 BASKETBALL 

Connquest 
Francis scores 19 points 

Women break UConn's 
to lead men's victory 121-game home Big 
over No. 19 Huskies East winning streak 
By PAT LEONARD By JOE HETTLER Associate Sports Editor Sports Writer 
-
For every coach in the Big The first time Notre Dame and East, the game plan for defend­Connecticut met this season, the ing Notre Dame's offense may Huskies handled the Irish 67-50 at h a v e the Joyce Center Jan. 12. This time 
around, Notre Dame returned thec h a n g e d See Also 
Sunday. favor and in doing so ended a 12­Demonst­"Brey issues year-old Connecticut streak. rating they Courtney LaVere had 14 points,
challenge, team 

do not live Megan DuffY added 12 points and 
responds with win"

and die a career-high seven steals and No. with the 3-page 16 6 Notre Dame hung on to a 65-59 point shot, victory over No. 10 Connecticut the Irish Sunday evening in Storrs. It (13-5, 5-3 Big East) struggled CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer marked the first time the Huskies 
At left, forward Torin Francis goes up strong for a layup against Connecticut's Charlie Villanueva see FRANCIS/page 18 Sunday. At right, Irish guard Megan Duffy hustles after a loose ball against the Huskies. see HUSKIES/page 18 
fENCING 

Women's squad takes out No. 1 Ohio State 
week ago and securing an unde­against the Irish. The match was clinched when four matches. 
By ERIC RETTER 

feated record in the event. "[The matches] are always Ament defeated senior Metta After her bouts against Ohio Sports Writer The difference for the Irish very close, but giving Brendler Thompson, who has fmished fifth State, Zagunis quiekly showered 
came in the epee, where the Irish three losses was huge," epee in the NCAAs each of the last and left the arena in prepara­Revenge is sweet. won two more duals against captain Kerry Walton said. three seasons, making the score tions of flying home to Oregon, The No. 2 Irish women found their Buckeye counterparts than The successful effort extended 14-10. where she is a finalist for the 
that out firsthand Sunday morn­a week ago, taking six of nine beyond the epees, as the foils, led Howev~r. the Irish did have state's Amateur Athlete of the ing, as they topped No. 1 ranked bouts. A crucial aspect of this by seniors Alicja Kryczalo and their share of difficulties during Year award. With the most Ohio State 16-11 in what turned shift was the fact that Kaela Andrea Ament, who were 3-0 the event. Despite an undefeated important matches of the event out to be the marquee event of Brendler, Ohio State's top and 2-1. respectively against the · effort by freshman Marie\ having already taken place by the two-day Notre Dame Duals, epeeist, who finished seventh in Buckeyes, combined to take six Zagunis, the sabres struggled avenging a 14-13 loss from a the 2004 NCAAs, was winless of nine bouts against Ohio State. against Ohio State, taking only see FENCERS/page 18 
MEN'S TENNIS 

ND knocks off pair of ACC teams 
Victory over No. 18 North Carolina gives No. 34 Irish program's 1,000th victory 
By KATE GALES 

Spores Writer  
There have been 1,001 victories  
in program history for men's ten­ 
nis. But this weekend, the only  
ones that counted were the two  
most recent, as the Irish continued  
their winning streak against No.  
18 North Carolina arid No. 42  
Observer File Photo Florida State.  
Notre Dame Barry King and Stephen Bass look to return aFreshman Sheeva Parbhu bat­ 
shot in a doubles match earlier this season.tled to a fierce three-set victory to  
clinch the Florida State match for  
the Irish, 4-3. The Irish also  ''I'm pretty excited right now,"  weekend."  
claimed the doubles point for the  coach Bobby Bayliss said. "From  The team mentality was appar­ 
fifth time this season after strug­ here it just gets a little tougher ­ 
gling in doubles last year.  we'll have to play really well next  see WIN/page 17  

WOMEN'S TENNIS 
No. 21 Irish dispose of No. 30 Deacons 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
Contrary to popular belief, his­tory does not always repeat itself. 
Case in point -Notre Dame made history of its own Sunday afternoon, besting Wake Forest 5-2 after falling 7-0 last year. The No. 21 Irish (3-1} swept doubles and claimed four of the six sin­gles matches en route to their victory over the No. 30 Demon Deacons (3-1). 
And captain Sarah Jane 
Connelly said revenge couldn't be any sweeter. 
"That was one of the worst matehes we played all last year, so it was definitely satisfying to win this year," the senior said. 
At No. 3, Sarah Jane Connelly and junior Kiki Stastny jump­·started the Irish efl'ort, walking off the court with an 8-1 win over Blakeley Offutt and Alisha Talbot. The duo is 13-4 on the season and 3-1 this spring. Freshman Brook Buck and junior Lauren 
see WAKE/page 17 
NO WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
WOMEN'S TRACK 
SMC SWIMMING 

MEN'S TRACK 
MLB 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
..... 
(.) 
Irish do well at 
Belles drop two 

Team runs well at 
Sosa should be 
Illinois 89,
Michi~n 161,
z Notre arne 138 
Invite 
over the weekend 

ND Invitational 
traded to Orioles 
Minnesota 66 
s 
Diver Megan Perry-

Blockbuster trade will 
The Illini had little
Notre Dame won 10 
Saint Mary's fell in its 

The Irish won seven
= cs: Eaton performs well, 
of 15 events at the Notre 
last regular season 

events at this weekend's 
be reviewed by MLB 
trouble disposing the 
but team can't get past 
Dame Invitational this 
meets, losing to Albion 

Notre Dame Invitational 
commissioner Bud Selig 
Gophers and keeping 
-
!; Wolverines. 
weekend. 
meet. 

their No. 1 ranking. 
and Calvin. 
Monday. 
page 16 
page 16 

page 12
page 15 

page 15 
page 14
Cl) 

.. 










