
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
i C r ime and ~t£1uuO~(~tM1 ~s:; 
.-~' :... A six-part series on discipline at Notre Dame \.:.J 
Changes, unrest mark ND policy history 
ripped and strewnd over the mencement had seniors up in "The party Is over" its most controversial aspect. By MADDIE HANNA rotunda, leaving toilet paper arms -the 1984 protests wore On April 16, 19H4, the "The students do not consider Associate News Editor 
and distressod administrators in indicators of' student unrest that University Committee on the drunknnness an act that tlwir wake. has been present in different Hesponsible Use of' Aleohol -requires disciplinary measures. It was a riot that shook Our Dissatisfaction with residen­degrees throughout the established in response to a This attitude must change," Lady-litnrally. tial life is not a modern phe­decades. November 1982 report on committee chair Fatlwr William 
Two thousand students bran­nomenon. While the most Policy changes have punctuat­"Priorities and Commitments Beauchamp said in an April 17, dishing bner eans stormed tho recent campus drama has been ed Notre Dame's history. The for Excellence (PACE) at the 1984 Observer article. "The Main Building on April 18, 1984 not under the Dome but con­transitions may be smooth or University of' Notre Dame" -whole party scene leads to alco­in a frenzied rnsponsl1 to an cerning the Dome itself' -the rocky, but the changes and the released a new alcohol policy hol abusn. So wn've got to elimi­aleohol poliey rnport released dneision to begin the regilding emotions evoked are to be report. • two days earlier, which they process before last May's com-expected. Banning private parties was see CHANGES/page 8 



Tuskegee Airmen speak in honor of Veteran's Day 
By RYAN SYDLIK 
New.~ Writer 
Thrnn men who broke raeial barri­nrs whill' fighting against Nazi (;nrmany in World War II related tlwir inspiring storins to the Notre llanw community Friday in honor of Vntnr·an's llay. 
HPtirnd Maj. Cnn. Lucius Theus, r·PLirnd Lt. Col. Alexander Jefferson and rntirnd Lt. Col Washington DuBois Boss, who snrvPd in the Army Air Corps during WWII. drow a rrowd to tho Carny Auditorium of the llnsburgh Library. The mnn told of tlwir nxpnrionens as hoth blacks and war votorans. 
"Thnso airnwn hroko a lot of barri­nrs and worn not expected to sue­CIHHI. llowovor, they were the only l'ightnr 1~seort squadron in Italy to 
An ROTC cadet stands guard next to
havn never lost a bomber tlwy 
Stonehenge Friday as part of a
oseortod, a prntty incredible reeord." 
Veteran's Day ceremony.

department chair of aerospace stud­ii~S Col. Mieha1d Zenk said. "We owe tlwm a dobt of gratitude not only for Legion of Merit and the Bronze Star. serving their country, but also for Theus explained the reasoning showing us all how to succeed behind the creation of the Tuskegee against huge odds. Eaeh of these Airmen. throo snrv1Hl in the military with dis­"At that time, it was not possible tinction and tlwn sorvod thoir follow for an Afriean-Ameriean to join the man in tlw civilian lifo as woll." Air Corps or learn to l'ly military air­
Thnus was tho first Afriean­craft," he said. "The Tuskegen exper­Anwrican support officer and only iment would determine onee and for lhn third Af'riean-Ameriean to be all if African-Americans could f'ly appointod general in tho U.S. Air military aircraft. Forw. During his 36-yoar service, he "Prom all over our nation, these roeeived the Distinguished Service Modal with Oak Loaf Cluster, the see VETERANS/page 6 
2,000 students attend rally 
Officials allow non-students to sit in empty student seats 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Writer 
While students did not eompletoly fill the 3,000 seats allotted to them at Friday's Navy pep rally, ollieials allowod non-students to sit in empty student seats and fill the Joyee Center with cheering Irish fans. 
Despite lownring the student seat allot­ment from 6,000 at the Tomwssee pnp rally to 3,000 for the Navy pep rally, thern were still empty seats in the student sne­tion 10 minutes beforn it bngan, hall pres­idents council athletic eo-ehair Justin Doyle said. 
Ollicials decided to admit non-students into the student section onen it bneamn dear that the scats would not be filled by 


Chase at SMC leads to crash 
poets weaved through sonw trees and 
By MEGAN O'NEIL passed directly betwnnn the library 
Saint Mary's Editor and llaviean llall, police said. They 
then proceeded across the library 
A police pursuit that began as a grnen and into the parking lot 
routine traff'ic stop in Mishawaka between the Student Centnr and 
concluded with the alleged suspects McCandless Hall bnf'orn driving to tlw 
driving straight through Saint Mary's far southwnst corner of' campus, 
campus and crashing into a tree where they crashPd in a dirt lot 
behind Loretto Convent Sunday after­behind the Loretto Convent-then 
noon, authorities said. took of'f into the woods, poliee said. 
After entering campus at the Saint 
Mary's Inn entrance, the alleged sus-see CRASH/page 6 

MATTHEW SMEDBERG/The Observer 
Irish fans cheer at the USC pep rally Oct. 14 Inside Notre Dame Stadium. 
studnnl'i. "There worn individuals who waited in 
see RALLY/page 4 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, November 14, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Curtain calls 
"Macbeth doth murder sleep." 

For the last 1 0 weeks, thi'i wasn't just Act II Scene II line 48 of one of Shakespeare's most famous tragedies. It was a rallying cry for 30 young women -extremely tired young women. Nicole Zook Women who woke up at 5 a.m. to run 
Assistant

after studying until 
News Editor 

three or slaved over their senior comps or directing finals for hours before head­ing to rehearsals that sometimes ran past midnight. 
Sometimes it was yelled, sometimes it could be read in away messages and sometimes it was softly sighed as the girl thought of all the homework she didn't have time to do and would have to lose more sleep over. 
To the cast and crew of Macbeth, the line rang true -we sacrificed sleep. But it didn't matter, because what we gained from working on the production was worth losing sleep over. We learned to swordfight, became fluent in Shakespearian language and became comfortable on a stage. We learned tan­gible things, skills that will be useful later in our lives. 
But what we really gained was an intangible, something that cannot be explained. It was the chance to be a part of something bigger than all of us. We spent hours together, onstage and off, bettering our acting and bettering our­selves with the help of the people around us. We became a tight band of brothers mirroring the Scottish clans we were por­traying. 
And what we came up with was magic. A five night run of a sold out show, a play that turned women into men and brought the dead to life for the audience. Somehow 115-pound girls turned into fierce medieval warriors and three col­lege students, awkward on stilts behind the scenes, became 8-foot-tall witches onstage. It was certainly an experience for all of us, one that will never be forgot­ten. 
In 30 years, I know I won't remember my lines. I won't remember how many hours I spent at rehearsal each week. I may not even remember the inside jokes the cast members shared with each other. But what I will remember is that we had them. I'll remember headbanging to Bohemian Rhapsody in the dressing room before the show, quoting Anchorman incessantly with other mem­bers of the cast and mispronouncing the phrase "I am a mother pheasant pluck­er" on a nightly basis. 
I'll remember the excitement of open­ing night and the sadness of taking down the set, the pure energy of jumping around to the bouncy soundtrack of our weeks together, and giving everyone in the cast "my best" every night. I'll remember that feeling of being a part of something bigger than myself, and I'll remember the other women who, both onstage and off, gave it their all. The managers who fretted over the details, the crew who worked behind the scenes to make them come to life, and the cast member who, though she could not speak, somehow found the voice to share with the rest of us the lesson that the show must go on. 
I wish I could give them all a more fit­ting tribute. But the show ended yester­day, and I think that means it's finally time to get some sleep. 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to editing error, Kuukua Yomekpe's last name was spelled wrong rwice in the Nov. 11 edition ofThe Observer ~ once in the text of the article and once in the pull quote on page 6. Due to a reporting error in the Nov. 11 edition ofThe Observer, junior Sara Orro was reported to be a senior, and senior Becky Feauto was reported to be a junior. The Observer regrets the errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF SATURDAY'S GAME? 



Andrew Linn  Lakota Mowrer  Glenn Gutierrez  
sophomore Morrissey  senior Cavanaugh  freshman Knott  
"/bought Descartes and read_,,  "There was a game?,  "It was good to see a lot of respect for the future ofthe armed forces. ,,  

Mary Kate McNamara 
sophomore Welsh Fam 
"One step closer to a BCS bowl.,, 


CLAIRE: KELLEY/The Observer 

Fighting Irish cheerleaders perform a stunt during Saturday's Notre Dame-Navy game. The leprechaun and cheerleaders entertained the crowd as the Irish beat Navy 42-21. 
OFFBEAT 

Drunk mooSe invades senior citizen home 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden ­They rarely have problems with drunks or rowdy ani­mals, but residents of a retirement home in southern Sweden had to deal with both: A pair of intoxicated moose invaded the premises. 
The moose -a cow and her calf -had become drunk over the weekend by eating fermented apples they found outside the home in Sibbhult, said employee Anna Karlsson. 
Police managed to scare them off once, but the tipsy mammals returned to get more of the tempting fruits. 
This time the moose were drunk and aggressive, forc­ing police to send for a hunter with a dog to make them leave. 
Police did not pursue the culprits, but made sure all apples were picked up from the area, police chief Bengt Hallberg said. No one was hurt. 
Police respond to burglary call, find marijuana 
PALM SPRINGS, Calif. ­In retrospect, it probably wasn't such a good idea to call the police. Ronald Meyers summoned officers to his home in an upscale neighborhood Thursday morning, claiming that someone was trying to open his windows and that he could hear voices outside. 
Responding officers found no burglar but asked if they could check inside, said Sgt. John Booth, a Palm Springs police spokesman. When Meyers, 59, let them in, offi­cers allegedly found more than $100,000 worth of marijuana, he said. 
The alleged stash included an 8-foot-tall pot plant, more plants growing in the garage and harvested marijuana ­some packed into large closeable plastic bags ­stuffed in large storage bins in a bedroom, Booth said. 

TODAY TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
a: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 

~ 
..... 
cz: 
(.) 



50 
43 


50 
43 

40 32 
0 

HIGH 55
...I 
LOW 33 


Katie Gibbons  Joey Leary  
sophomore Welsh Fam  freshman Dillon  
"Maurice Stovall for Reisman.,,  "It was nice to see a clean, respectful game  

between two quality schools.,, 

IN BRIEF 
Quinlin Terry, a leading fig­ure in the revival of classical architecture, will present the 2005 Richard H. Driehaus Prize lecture at 7 p.m. today in the Suite Museum of Art. The lecture, "Designing and Building a Sustainable Future," is free and open to the public. 
An examination of the vari­ous aspects of literary art in the 1960s will be the focus of a two-day lecture series, "Artworlds of the Sixties," today and Tuesday in McKenna Hall beginning at 4:30p.m. 
Suzan Shown Harjo, a Native American journalist, will speak on Diversity Tuesday at 7 p.m. in Vannet Theater at Saint Mary's Student Center. 
0. Carter Snead, associate professor of law in the Notre Dame Law School, will be giv­ing a lecture on "Speaking Truthfully About Stem Cell Research and Human Cloning" at 4 p.m. Wednesday in McKenna Hall auditorium. 
Jaleel White, a.k.a Steve Urkel, will be speaking about life and experience in show business on Thursday at 7:30 
p.m. in DeBartolo 101. 
Susan Peters, Vice President of General Electric, will speak on the roles of women in cor­porate America at 7 p.m. Thursday in The Little Theater in Moreau Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

HIGH LOW 


40 27 
Atlanta 7 4 I 59 Boston 60 I 41 Chicago 53 I 483 Denver 56 I 26 Houston 82 I 69 Los Angeles 81 I 58 Minneapolis 46 132 New York 62 I 48 Philadelphia 63 I 47 Phoenix 83 I 58 Seattle 49 I 38 St. Louis 53 I 47 Tampa 82 I 64 Washington 62 153 
Monday, November 14, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Whit111ore W"onders if sweatshops, social thought mix 
By KAITLYNN REILY 
News Writer 
When professor Todd Whitmorn asked his dass if they believed the University of Notre Dame was a brand, 76 percent replied they strongly agrnfld, 24 pen~ent agreed and no one dis­agrned. 
Whitmore says the abundance of Notre Dame goods available, such as rawhide bones inscribed with the Notre Dame logo and can opnnflrs that sing the light song, contribute to a growing consumer culture surrounding Notre Dame. Ken Shanzer, the president of NBC Sports, dnseribnd the contract between NBC and Notrn Dame as "a great linkagn of brands." 
Whitmore, an assodatn profes­sor of thnoloj:.,ry and the director of the Program in Catholic Soda! Teaching, present-
reveal where eaeh of its factories are located and to adhere to the labor codes and the principles of Catholic social teaching. 
According to Whitmore, Notre Dame expects its licensees to fol­low the codes of conduct dictated by the Fair Labor Association (FLA) and the Worker's Rights Consortium (WRC). These codes prohibit forced labor, child labor, harassment and discrimination and require the maintenance of certain health and safety stan­dards and freedom of associa­tion. 
Whitmore described the poor working conditions for a sweat­shop in Lesotho, a country in Africa, but also mentioned the presence of sweatshops in the 
U.S. Under the Department of Labor's definition of a sweatshop as any factory that violates more than one of the fundamental U.S. labor laws, two-thirds of the gar­
ment factories in 
ed a lneturn nnti­Los Angeles, Calif., tlnd "Catholic "It is not intrinsic would fall into that Soeial Teaching, category, he said. 
to football to have 

Notn1 Dame Sports Whitmore said 
an Adidas

Apparel and the Kinko's, which Problem of contract." recently entered Sweatshops" as into a contract part of a three-day with Notre Dame,
Todd Whitmore

eonfernnee held in has violated some

professor

McKenna !tall Nov. labor ethics by I 0 to 12 on engaging in the "Catholic Identity and the Roln of practice of electronic deduction Sport." of hours. The managers tell 
Whitmore serves on a sweat­workers to clock out, and then shop task force started by require them to stay for two University l'rnsident Emeritus hours to clean up. Father Edward Malloy to ensure Much of Whitmore's lecture nthical labor practices by focused on Notrn Dame licensee licensees of the University. Notre Adidas. Adidas is a signatory to Dame requires all licensees to the Fair Labor Association, and Whitmore has l'ound the apparel company to be generally loyal to the FLA's requin~ments. 
"They've ended contracts with certain producers when they haven't followed their code of conduct," Whitmore said. lie believes Adidas does intend to operate by fair labor processes, but says the main factor is decid­ing, "[if] the code is adequate and is the code adequately moni­tored? The code is worth nothing if it is not adequately moni­tored." The Adidas Company has only 30 inspectors to cover its factories worldwide. 
"If they see something, they try to address it," Whitmore said. "The question is whether there are enough monitors." 
Whitmore said Notre Dame has a "No trade in China" policy, so the University prohibits Adidas from making Notre Dame logo apparel in China. However, Adidas maintains factories in China to manufacture other goods. A Notre Dame Varsity athlete at the lecture informed Whitmore that his Adidas shoes, which do not have the Notre Dame logo on them, were made in China, proving that there may be loopholes to this policy that Adidas exploits. 
Whitmore said that overall, Adidas is doing a good job com­pared to other clothing manufac­turers. 
Notre Dame's labor views are influenced by Catholic social teaching, which states that workers should be guaranteed a living wage and the right to organize. It also states, "living wage is morally prior and ought to be legally superior to the eon­tract." 

Whitmore attempted to refute the argument that enforcing a living wage would drive up prices and thus reduce demand for the product by asking the audience if they would pay $53 instead of $50 for a Notre Dame sweatshirt if it was guaranteed that the person who made the sweatshirt was making a living wage. The audience responded in favor of purchasing the more expensive sweatshirt. 
"The argument that [the living wage] would drive up prices is not an economic argument, but one of moral will," Whitmore said. 
Whitmore and the sweatshop task force presented a conscious elause to Malloy as part of Notre Dame's labor position. This clause stated, "II' a coach or <tth­lete, after careful examination and discnrnment, cannot in good conscience wear the ollieial con­tracted apparel, he or she may wear a situationally-appropriate alternative." While Malloy did not approvn this clause, Whitmore said he stands by the importance oJ' the primacy of conscience. 
"It is not intrinsic to football to have an Adidas contract," Whitmore said. "Notre Dame's heydays were prior to that. The contracts are secondary. They might be helpful, they might help us to do better things, but they are not intrinsic to us." 
Contact KaitJynn Reily at kreily@nd.edu 
Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture 1 s Catholic Culture Series Presents ... 
VALOR, FELLOWSHIP, AND SACRIFICE: 

TOLKlEN·s CATHOLIC MYTH 

Missing the Spirit: The Scouring of the Shire 
' 

Tolkien•s Catholicism, and Peter Jackson•s Return of the King 
Greg Wright 
Writer  1n  Residence  at  Puget  Sound  Christian  College  
Tuesday,  November 15, 2005  
7:30  PM  


DeBartolo 141 
For more nformat on go to eth cscenter.nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 14, 2005 


Irish performance pleases fans 
Respectful matchup against Navy continues tradition, reflects character 
By MARY CONROY 
News Writer 
Many Notre Dame fans ­who sometimes deal with rude fans and opposing team mem­bers spiking their flags into Irish turf-saw Saturday's respectful matchup with the Naval Academy as a breath of fresh air. 
Fans said the respectful nature of Navy's players, fans and band along with the win­ning Irish perform­ance made the game an enjoyable sportsmanship. 

"I liked the Navy fans. They're classy people," he said. 
Upon completion of the game, Irish football players traditionally shake hands with the opposing teams and hold their golden helmets up to the crowd before heading to the locker room. 
Saturday, however, after shaking hands with Navy, the Irish players followed Navy to their band, and stood silently, along. with the rest of the Stadium, to lis­
experience. "I liked the Navy ten to the play­Freshman ing of Navy's
fans. They're
Courtney Vietmeier Marine Hymn
classy people. " 
was particularly by the Naval amused and Academy Drum impressed by Tom Mazzacavallo and Bugle Anthony Fasano's Corps.
freshman 
vertical jump over a Midshipman at Navy's 10-yard line. 
"Fasano displayed great ath­leticism and agility when he bounded through the air over 
the  midshipmen  defense,"  
Vietmeier said.  
Freshman  Cameron  

Muhlenkamp was pleased with the victory, and is looking for­ward to what it means for the team's future. 
"It was great to get a step closer to [a] bowl game," he said. 
Freshman Tom Mazzacavallo said he was fond of Navy's Navy fans 

then returned 
the respectful act by removing their hats dur­ing the playing of the Notre Dame alma mater. 
Sophomore Peter O'Malley said this was a significant reflection of Notre Dame's character. 
"At the end when Navy played [the] Marine Hymn and people gave respect, it was very important," he said. 
Notre Dame band member and freshman Lauren Momenee said the Navy band not only exemplified good sportsmanship, but was also very talented. 
"(The] Navy band played very well, and compared with other schools we played, [they] were one of the nicer bands. They congratulated us afterwards," she said. 
Momence also said it is important to remember that the game is a friendly competi­tion. 
"Even though [there is a] rivalry, with Navy everyone comes together and hangs out the night before," she said. 
Freshman Janelle Wise said she also admired the Naval Academy Drum and Bugle Corps. 
"I thought it was a good game. Navy was the only band that turned around and played our song for us, it was great," she said. 
Freshman Lauren Mangiaforte said that what makes this game unique is the history behind it. 
"If you are a true, hard-core Notre Dame football fan, you understand the magnitude of the Notre Dame-Navy series," she said. "(It] is so pure, and so intense. 
"(The] fact that two teams share this tradition and respect for one another is amazing. It is nice to have a connection that goes so far back." 
Contact Mary Conroy at mconroO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Rally 
continued from page. I 
line for tickets who may not have received them," Doyle said. "But immediately before the pep rally began, the ushers allowed those individuals who did not receive one of the 5,000 general admission tickets to sit in the empty student seats." 
Associate athletic director John Heisler said the seat allotment many non-student Irish fans. 

But the Navy pep rally was far more organized and efficient, Doyle said. 
"All of the individuals involved, from students plan­ning it to the athletic depart­ment and Joyce Center officials, they all worked very hard to make it successful," he said. "The Joyce center was ultimate­ly filled and the crowd was live­ly. I was pleased; it was a very good pep rally." 
The number 
of seats that will 
has varied from pep rally to pep rally as officials have tried to pre­ 'The Joyce Center was ultimately filled and the  be allotted to students for the final pep rally on Nov. 18 will  
dict how many stu­dents will actually attend. "We need to be  crowd was lively. I was pleased; it was a very good pep  depend on stu­dent interest. Doyle said the pep rally might  
flexible and try to understand that it's  rally."  attract a lot of seniors since it  
just not going to be realistic to sit there  Justin Doyle  will be their last. "We are going  
. . .  and  suggest  athletic co-chair  to speak to the  
there's going to be  Hall Presidents  hall presidents,"  
an absolute, specif­ Council  Doyle  said.  

ic number that's going to be the same from week to week," Heisler said. 'The bottom line is you want the seats to be full. So however the numbers worked out, that was pretty well accom­plished Friday night." 
The dwindling attendance at pep rallies in recent weeks caused rally organizers to re­think their admission policy for fans. For the Tennessee pep rally on Nov. 4, 6,000 seats were reserved for students -but only about 2,400 actually attended -leaving thousands of seats empty in the student section. The overestimate caused officials to turn away "We're going to 

ask them to approximate what they believe their dorm's student attendance will be at the next pep rally. We'll also ask off-campus repre­sentatives the same questions, and we will move forward from there." 
Students who did attend the pep rally said they didn't notice any problems. 
"I had no trouble [getting into the pep rally]," freshman Thomas Fletcher said. "There just weren't that many students there." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 



IVlTERVlATIOVlAL EDIACATIC:>Vl 
.Sf'ON.SOR:Eb ~y ­~ l.SS A ,, O'f·>f<oc• <>~ :tni'.......,.o~oonol S'tuch•s ·• x..s~i~u~• .,_.,.,... L<:>..-wno S~ud•q"'-• K41logg X""'"'"""""'"" <• f'.lan.:ovic ln<S:1ti11tu . ..-o •· Fo-sch.:>~ ~d._..,..,.. tl:osodqncco-s .x·n1t.;orno1tio..-.col J'All>A·s o Xndooo .S'l'uden't A.s.s.octo1tion "' P~$.id.,n1t's O'f'fi.co " 
b.oon ~$ O'ffic>O: Cotl.eg4 o'f A.r'l'·::s. o.-.d Lo't''I'O.f''"S "!• ,....""09.-.o""' •n G-e"do-r S."t"ud•c-s ";!>. 
Th.,. c.,.... ........ C..,n..-..-.-•• Eos't A><i4rt Lo..guog.,,. & Lo..-.,ra'!>u.-..,,. •• bof>o.-......,....,.. o'f ll>><>t<>gy •· b<>po..-1>-n't o'f ,..,. ....,...,.,..,<*<'• .S'todi<!>$ '·' AAA ,, OLA <> Alu......,i A'!<soc·oo1-ion "' 

For a calendar of events go to: www.nd.edu/-issa/IEW 
MONDAY,NOVEMBER14 
OPENING KEYNOTE LECTURE 
Notre Dame alumna, Melinda Henneberger, (NO '80; Angers program '78) will kick off International Education Week, speaking to students from 10-11 :30am (131 Decio) about her career as a journalist. She will address a group of university leaders at 12noon with her reflections on international education and the media. Sponsored by the Office of the President; Office of the Dean, College of Arts and Letters; Program in Gender Studies; Career Center; Dept of East Asian Language & Literatures; and Department American Studies. 
NANOVIC INSTITUTE FOR EUROPEAN STUDIES PANEL AND DISCUSSION: Why is France Burning? 4:15-6:00pm, Hesburgh Center Auditorium The recent riots and burnings in Paris and the rest of France have caught the attention of the world. This roundtable will explore the historical, political, sociological, and economic reasons that helped ignite the flames. Participants include: Professors Catherine Perry, Anthony Messina, Teresa Ghilarducci, Sebastien Dubreil, Julia Douthwaite, and A. James McAdams, moderator; and Students Drew Cramer and Leslie Kealhofer. 
KELLOGG INSTITUTE, CAREER CENTER, AND INSTITUTE FOR LATINO STUDIES 
DISCUSSION ON DIPLOMACY AND THE FOREIGN SERVICE 
James Creagan, American Ambassador (ret.) 5:30pm, McKenna Hall, Room 208. Reception to follow. 

Full Week Calendar of Events at: www.nd.edu/-issa/IEW.htm 





ORLD & NATION 
Monday, November 14, 2005 COMPI LED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
French riots seem to be near end 
PAHIS -Franen's worst rioting since thn 1 <J60s seems to be nnaring an end, the national police chinf said Sunday as fewer ears WM!l torched nationwide and Paris remained calm despite Internet and cell phonn messages urging violence in the capi­tal's streets. 
In scattered attacks, youths rammed a burning car into a center for retirees in Provnnce and pnlted police with stones in the historic heart of Lyon, the country's third biggost city. A firebomb was tossed at a Lyon mosqun but did not explode. 
The nationwide storm of arson attacks, rioting and other violonce, often by young people from impoverished minorities, has lost stnam since the government declared a statn of emergency Wednesday. 
Youths set fire to 374 parked vehicles before dawn Sunday, compared to 502 the previous night, police said. A week ago, 1,400 ears were incineratnd in a single night. 
French monk beatified at Vatican 
VATICA.N CITY -i\ French monk who lived among thn Tuareg pnoplo in the Sahara and was killml in an anti-French uprising in i\lgeria in I916 was bnatifind by the Vatkan on Sunday, the last formal step bnfore possible sainthood. 
Pope Benndict XVI praised Charles de Foueauld li1r his humility during the ceremony at St. Pnter's Ba.<;iliea. 
I>n Foueauld "dismvornd that Jesus, joinnd in our humanity, invites us to universal brother­hood, which ltlw monk! latHr lived out in the Sahara," Bmwdiet said, spnaking in French to an audim1cn that indudnd Tuaregs in thnir robns and hnadgnar. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Tornadoes rip through Iowa 
WOOI>WAHI>, Iowa -Tornadoes swept across central Iowa on Saturday, ripping up farms, destroying homes in several towns and sending college football fans running from a stadium for shelter. 
At least one person was killed in the storm, two others were hospitalized, and a gas leak forced authorities to evacuate part of Stratford, a town of about 746 res­idents 50 miles northwest of Des Moines. 
"llalf the town's gone," said Bob Smith, who has lived in Stratford for 12 years. He said he ran from his camper as the torna­do touched down. 
Teen kidnapped at gunpoint 
I.ITITZ, Pa. -A 14-year-old girl was missing after her parents were shot to death in their home Sunday morning, and authorities were searching for her 18­year-old boyfriend, who reportedly abduct­Pd her at gunpoint. 
Miehael and Cathryn Borden, both 50, worn found shot to death shortly after 8 a.m., Lititz Policn Chief William Seaee said. 
The couple's <J-year-old son David, the youngest of five children, had fled to a neighbor's house and ealled 911, Seace said. An older daughter still living at home and two adult sons were also safe, he said. 
The Borden family had lived in the home for several years, said neighbor Tod Sherman. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Attorney no challenge to Lugar vote 
INDIANAPOLIS -Indianapolis attorney David Johnson portrayed himself five years ago as the most formidable candi­date ever to take on He publican Sen. Hiehard Lugar, only to become the latest challengnr to mustnr less than a third of the vote against the venerable politician. 
With a year left before thH next election, Indiana's longest-serving senator appears poised for a stroll to a sixth term. 
JORDAN 


Iraqi adtnits to trying to blo-w herself up 
Jordanian television airs woman's confession of plotting to attack hotel wedding 
AssoCiated Press 
i\.MMA.N -Wearing a disabled explosives belt, the Iraqi woman calmly described the plot to attack a hotel wedding party with her husband ­confessing on Jordanian television after al-Qaida's mistaken boast of her "martyrdom" led to her arrest. 
Millions of viewers across Jordan and the region watehed as Sajida Mubarak Atrous al­Hishawi, arrested Sunday, explained how her hus­band helped plan Wednesday's attacks, fit­ted her suicide bomb belt and blew himself up with his own bomb at the Hadisson Si\.S -one of three hotels attacked by three Iraqi men. 
"My husband detonated !his bomb! and I tried to explode Imine] but it wouldn't," said the 35­year-old ai-Rishawi, wear­ing a white headscarf and wringing her hands. 

"People lled running and I left running with them," she said during the three­minute segment, whieh showed her handling sev­eral pieces of the faulty trigger equipment that failed to set off about 22 pounds of RDX explosives information about the wearing explosive-laden of the tape, a TV announc­and hundreds of ball-bear­operations of al-Zarqawi's belts when they strolled er cited security ofl'icials ings. group, which claimed into the Hadisson ballroom as saying the woman gave 
The attackers killed 57 responsibility for the hotel where hundreds of guests, no further details because other people at the bombings, Jordan's dead­including children, were "she was still suffering Hadisson SAS, Grand Hyatt liest terrorist attacks. The attending a Jordanian­from the shock of the and Days Inn hotels. group said the attacks Palestinian wedding blasts and her subsequent 
AI-Hishawi's brother was were retaliation for reception. arrest." once a deputy of Abu Jordanian support for the "My husband wore a belt i\.1-Rishawi was arrested Musab ai-Zarqawi, the United States and other and put one on me. lle at a "safe house" in the Jordanian leader of ai­Western powers. taught me how to use it, same i\.mman suburb Qaida in Iraq, said deputy AI-Rishawi was shown how to pull the {primer where her husband and premier Marwan Muasher. on state television wearing cord] and operate it," she the other two bombers He said the brother, a buttoned, body-length said. rented a furnished apart­Mubarak Atrous al­dark denim dress. Muasher said al-ment, a top Jordanian Hishawi, was killed in the Muasher told CNN the Rishawi's husband noticed security official said. former terrorist strong­belts she also wore on the her struggle when the belt Jordanian security was hold of Fallujah, Iraq. broadcast were captured failed and pushed her out tipped off to her presence 
Officials believe al­with her. of the ballroom in order by al-Qaida in Iraq's claim Hishawi, who entered Al-Rishawi said she and not to attract attention of a female bomber, the Jordan from Iraq on Nov. her husband, Ali Hussein before blowing himself up. oflicial added, speaking on 5, may provide significant Ali ai-Shamari, 35, were After a second showing condition of anonymity 

CHINA 


Schwarzenegger fights DVD piracy 
want the exposure a celebrity like the to Israel, Japan, Germany and Mexieo.
Associated Press 

governor can bring," said Jeff But China's size -1.3 billion people and 
BEIJING Gov. Arnold Williamson, director of the state's growing -authoritarian government Schwarzenegger left for China on Center for International Trade and rapidly emerging economic clout Sunday for a six-day mission to encour­Development. offer a particularly vexing challenge in age Chinese officials to crack down on Schwarzenegger's first-day schedule the global marketplace. Just last year, the piracy of copyrighted music, movies includes a Special Olympics tribute and China sold $162 billion more goods to and software and to promote California a reception with the 80 business leaders the United States than tile United States products. accompanying him. Traveling with him sold to China, and the gap is widening. 
The trip also gives him a chance to are his wife, several cabinet secretaries California is the major gateway for revive his political image after the bruis­and a delegation of executives eager to U.S. trade to China, with cotton and ing defeat of his "year of reform" pack­promote companies that include Pfizer computer-related products leading the age in a special election last week. Inc., Universal Studios and Qualcomm way. The state exported $6.8 billion in 
In China, his celebrity overshadows Inc. goods to China in 2004, double what it his recent political woes. Since becoming governor in 2003, exported in 2000, according to the "Folks coming along recognize they Schwarzenegger has made official visil'l California Chamber ofCommerce. 
-----------------------------------------, 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 14, 2005 
Veterans 
continued from page 1 
young men flocked to this program. They trained hard. They exceeded all expecta­
tions. They were given dan­gerous missions deep within Nazi-held terri­tory. They never lost an American bomber that they were escorting to enemy aircraft. They went on to do some other things that "We had to work." 

Jefferson related the expe­rience of his plane being shot down by ground fire. 
"The shell came up through the floor and out of the canopy," he said. "You hit your buckle and came 
"/ think it is important to have an understanding ofthe history of your nation. " 
Maj. Gen. Lucius Theus U.S. Air Force (retired) 
seemed improbable, if not impossible," he-said. Theus also described the purpose of his visit. 
"We Tuskegee airmen enjoy getting together with fine young people because you fine young people are indeed the future of America," he said. "I think it is important to have an understanding of the history of your nation." 
Ross, who served in the Air Force Reserves for 25 years, spoke of his experiences in the 332nd Fighter Group and the 15th Air Force, which included long-range escort missions protecting Allied bombers. 
"We were not super-peo­ple, we were people just like everybody else," he said. 
out." 
Jefferson was captured by German troops and interred for nine months as a prisoner of war. Although he said he was treated well at the Stalag Luft 3 and Stalag 7a prison camps, Jefferson also said he experi­

enced firsthand the sheer brutality and evil of the con­
"War is hell. In some aspects it's glorious. But basically, it only comes out to those that survive," he said. 
Jefferson also gave advice to young people that he said is often difficult for them to hear. 
"This is the best country in the world," he said. "You are here, why in the heck don't you learn how to join the system? If you are going to be dumb, stupid and igno­rant and refuse to get an education, don't cry and get a bellyache. Do what you have to do to the best of your ability." 
Lyle Summerix, a repre­sentative of American Legion Post 51 who arranged the visit, said he greatly appre­ciated the Airmen's dedica­
flict. 

Upon release, Jefferson said he was told "there's a place down the road with a whole lot of dead people." 
"We could smell Dachau two miles before we got to it," he said. 
Jefferson, who received the Air Medal, Air Force achievement 
"War is hell. In some aspects it's glorious. But basically, it only comes out to those that survive." 
Lt. Col. Alexander Jefferson 
U.S. Air Force (retired) 
tion. 
"The Airmen proved conclu­sively that African Americans could fly and maintain sophisticated combat air­craft," he said. "Their achieve­ments, together with the men and women who supported them, paved 
medal, Prisoner of War the way for full integration Medal and the Air Force of the U.S. military." Presidential unit citation, stated his opinion on the Contact Ryan Sydlik at brutality of war. rsydlik@nd.edu 


Crash 
continued from page 1 
"The two occupants left the vehicle and went down the embankment," St. Joseph County Police Cpl. Corey Brothers said early Sunday evening. "There are still a cou­ple of officers milling around to see if they got out of the woods." 
No one was injured in the incident. 
Described as two black men in their twenties, the alleged suspects are believed to have fled south down along the St. Joseph River, Brothers said. As know whether the alleged sus­pects were armed. 

Police and Saint Mary's secu­rity units patrolled the west­ern border of campus, which abuts the St. Joseph River, much of the afternoon looking for the alleged suspects. The car was impounded, Brothers said. 
Saint Mary's security officer Joyce Vrasis would not com­ment on whether College secu­rity officers had searched for the alleged suspects in any buildings on campus. She did confirm that there was no sig­nificant physical damage to the campus. 
Identification for one of the 
men was found 
under a seat in 

of Sunday night "We saw the the car, Brothers neither had been said.
flashing light but 
apprehended, he There had been
there were no
said. no cars reported 
The alleged sirens. What stolen as of suspects, who Sunday, Brothers
caught my eye was 
were driving a said, and the
the flashing lights. " 
white compact alleged suspects car, were pulled probably over by a Erin Nolan removed the Mishawaka police license plates
junior
officer near the intersection of Grape Road and Douglas Road after he found their license plates did not match the vehi­cle, Brothers said. When the officer approached the vehicle, the alleged suspects drove off, he said. 
The Mishawaka officer and a St. Joseph County Sheriff unit pursued the car onto the College's campus. Brothers estimated the speed of the pursuit to be between 60 and 70 miles per hour. 
"[It was] a decent speed, because they got where they were going quickly," Brothers said. 
The chase caused landscap­ing damage and damage to the vehicle the alleged suspects were driving, he said. 
Brothers said he did not from another 

vehicle and placed them on the one they were driving. 
Despite the pursuit, the cam­pus remained quiet and most students said they did not see or hear the incident. 
Junior Erin Nolan, who was studying in front of a large window in the Cyber Cafe that faces the path the chase took across campus, said she saw a few police cars but little else. 
"We saw the flashing light but there were no sirens," Nolan said. "What caught my eye was the flashing lights." 
College spokeswoman Melanie McDonald was unavailable for comment Sunday night. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 


~Merrill Lynch 
SHARE OUR PASSION MERRILL LYNCH PRESENTATION 
NOTRE DAME juniors are invited to attend: Monday, November 14, 2005 6:00-8:00 pm Center for Continuing Education, McKenna Hall, Room 102 
Whether you look at us in terms of people, culture, products or our virtually limitless possibilities, Merrill Lynch defines "exceptional" in every sense of the word. It's a source of pride for all of us who work here. And a source of exceptional care.ers for those eager to share in our passion for doing great things. 
Attend our presentation. And let's explore the possibilities together. 
Summer opportunities: Investment Banking 
EXCEPTIONAL WITHOUT EXCEPTION 
ml.com/careers/americas Merrill Lynch is an equal opportunity employer. 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Monday, November 14, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks 

Dow 10 686.04 +45.94
}ones ' 
•

Up¢ Some: Down: Composite Volun 1,957 133 -~2 2,097.360,050 
AMEX I ~696.58 +14.69 
NASDAQ 2,202.47 +5.79 NYSE 7.561.40 +31.27 ' 
,,,,,,,...... 

S&PSOO 1,234.72 +3.76 NIKKEJ(Tokyo) T4, 155.06 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 5,465.10 +41.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +1.87 +0.32 17.47 NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ) +0.27 +0.11 40.71 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.70 +0.19 27.28 DELL INC (DELL) +0.65 +0.19 29.40 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.44 -0.11 25.13 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND 0.00 0.00 47.46 10-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 45.64 5-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 44.84 3-MONTH BILL 0.00 0.00 38.72 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.27 57.53 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) +1.70 467.70 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.45 92.70 
Excha Rates YEN 117.9800 EURO 
0.8522 POUND 
0.570 

IN BRIEF 
No rulin~ by Fla. judae in 
Morgan Sfanley contempf case 
NI~W YOHK-A Florida state judge Thursday dnelined to rule on Honald l'nrnlman's motion to subjnet Morgan Stanlny to criminal contempt charges for mishandling e-mails, pending the invest­ment bank's appnal of' a $1.5S billion ver­dict in favor of the billionairn l'inancier. 
l'nrnlman was awarded the sum earlier this year after a jury trial over the bank's roln in advising appliance maker Sunbeam Corp. in its 191JS purchase of Perelman's camping goods eompany, Coleman Co. Sunhnarn latnr admitted it inflated its rnsults, and sought bankruptcy protection. 
Thursday's eight-page ruling by Palm Bt~ach County Judge Elizabeth Maass is a victory for Morgan Stanlny, which had argund, among other grounds, that l'nrnlman l'ailed to show why contempt ehargns worn warranted. 
A n~prnsentative for Perelman was not immndiately available for comment. A Morgan Stanley spokesman deelined to 
CO llliiW n t. 
Dollar nears two-year high
against rebounding euro 
NEW YOHK-The dollar rose against the euro Wednesday as concerns about unrest in Francn and thn lack of a new govern­ment in Germany kept the European com­mon currnncy near two-year lows against the dollar. 
In late Nnw York trading, the 12-nation nuro bought $1.1763, down from $1.1787 the night before in New York and its lowest lovols since November 2003. The euro fell as low as $1.1711 on Tuesday before rnbounding slightly. 
Tho dollar has been buoyed recnntly by signs of oeonomie strength as well as con­tinuing ineroases in the U.S. Federal Hnsorvo's bonehmark intnn~st rate. Poliey­rnakors raisod tho rate last week by a quartnr percentage point to 4 percent ­the highost ratn in more than four years­in tho 12th sueh incn~aso since June 2004, and indieatod thoy would continue to do so at a mnasurnd pa<~o. 
Georgia-Pacific, Koch to merge 
$13.2 billion deal with paper giant will create nation's biggest private company 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Paper products giant Georgia­Pacific Corp., the maker of Hrawny paper towels and Angol Soft tissue, has agreed to be acquired liw more than $13 billion by Koch Industries Inc., a deal that would create the nation's biggest privato company. 
The $13.2 billion cash deal announced Sunday also calls lilr Koch to assume $7.8 bil­lion in Georgia-Pacific debt and will result in the At I anta-based company becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of Koch. The deal values GP at $48 per share, a 38.5 percent premium over its closing price of $34.65 Friday on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Koch, based in Wichita, KarL, is a commodities eon­glomerate that operates refineries and pipelines, trades commodities and manufactures pulp, paper and fibers. With combined annual revenue of some $80 billion from Georgia-Pacific, Koch would surpass food and farm products maker Cargill Inc. as the largest privately held company in the U.S. Koch employs more than 30,000 people. 
Besides Brawny, Georgia­Pacific's brands include Dixie paper cups and Quilted Northern bath tissue. The Koch's history, coming about Georgia Pacific CEO A.D. that our sharo price would company also makes build­18 months after it acquired "Pete" Correll, who faced a go down," Corrnll said. ing products such as ply­lnvista BV, a nylon fibers mandatory retirement when Operating as a private eon­wood. lumber and gypsum business that makes Lycra he turns 65 n«~xt April, is cern also will allow Georgia­wallboard. and Stainmaster, from expected to join Koch's Pacific managnrs to "avoid 
The deal marks tho first DuPont Co. board and help with the the distraction of quarterly major push into consumer Koch acquired two pulp transition. Koch plans to rnports," bettor weather tho products for Koch, which mills from Georgia Pacific in name a new CEO and presi­industry's cyelical down­traces its history to 11J27 May 2004, a deal which dent of Georgia-Pacific later. turns and exeeutn stratngie when Fred C. Koch devel­executives of both compa­In a telephone interview, decisions much fastnr, oped a new method to reline nies said Sunday provided Correll said talks on the cur­Corrnll said. crude oil. Today it operates an introduction and prompt­rent deal began in earnest Correll joked that he also in diverse lields from ranch­ed ongoing discussions. last month and that operat­won't miss quarterly earn­ing to fertilizor to petroleum "From the investment we ing as a private company ings conl'erencn calls with processing and asphalt. made in Koch Cellulose, that will allow Georgia-Padlie to analysts, mandatory report­Chairman and CEO Charles really got us very interested invest in areas -particular­ing requirements undnr thn 
G. Koch and his brother, in the entire fore!;it products ly its packaging and building fnderal Sarbanes-Oxloy cor­David, a company board sector," Joe W. Moeller, products businesses -porate reform law "and 47 member and executive vice Koch's president and chief where it has not previously other" regulatory rnquire­president, are both worth $4 operating officer, said in a because of concerns Wall ments. billion, according to Forbes telephone interview. "We see Street would not approve of A Koeh unit, Koch Fornst ranking of the world's this really as a natural such expenditures. Products, will launch a cash wealthiest people. extension for our company llad it undertaken such tender offer for Goorgia­
The proposed acquisition and a great platform for investments, "we feel that Pacil'ic eorrolmonlls out­would be the largest in growth." the prospeets are very high standing shares by Friday. 

Writers to fight 'stealth advertising' 
well. "Just as there is an ostablished right
Associated Press 

The character Gabrielle on to truth-in-advertising, there should be 
LOS ANGELES -Hollywood writers "Desperate Housewives" was seen last a similar right to truth-in-pro~-,rramming and actors are calling for a eode of eon­season as an auto show model touting where advertising is concerned," said duct to govern a growing trend of hid­Buick. Some reality shows base entire Screen Actors Guild President Alan den advertising in TV shows and lilms, episodes on contestants working with Hosonberg. and they say they will appeal to federal sponsors. Contestants on "The The code would also require the issue regulators if studios don't respond. Apprentice," for example, have been to bo discussed in bargaining with t.ho 
The also want their share of the bil­given tasks involving Burger King, studios to give actors, writers and din~e­lions of dollars in advertising revenue I lome Depot and the DVD release of the tors a voice in how products arn woven generated by what they write and act latest "Star Wars" lilm, among othnrs. into the plot. in, their unions say. The Writers Guild of America plannnd "We are being told to write tho lines 
Advertising has been creeping into to release a study Monday calling lilf a that sell this merchandise and to deftly programming for years, blurring the­eode of conduct that would mandate lull disguisn the sale as a story," tho study lines of ads and entertainment. It can be disclosure of all product integration states. as simple as a Coca-Cola eup promi­deals at the beginning of a program so The nllhrt is part of a larger push by nently displayed on "Ameriean Idol." viewers would know they will be "sub­the WGA to unionize writers, produenrs 
But increasingly, the produets are ject to hidden or stealth advertising," and editors who work on reality TV bncoming integrated into story lines as according to a news release. shows. 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 14, 2005 
Changes 
continued from page 1 
nate it." 
Many students were particu­larly angered by the report's limited view on acceptable social gatherings -"Whenever alcohol containers are open, the total number of people in one room may not exceed four per­sons, or two times the number of students assigned to sleep in that suite" -calling it a direct assault on their freedom to assemble. 
The night of April 17, more than 1,500 students began a "spontaneous rally which cli­maxed with fireworks and horns," according to an April 18, 1984 article. 
Banners swept campus, drap­ing dorm windows. Dillon threatened secession. Cavanaugh asked the simple question, "Why?" 
More than a week after rallies rocked campus -and national media picked up on the story ­student body president Rob Bertino and vice president Cathy David took a calmer approach in an April 26, 1984 Observer column. 
"It is not so much what was done, but the way in which it was done, that we find disturb­ing," the two wrote, stressing the need for student input in policy changes. 
The report also recommended the ban of hard alcohol. 
"Two or three martinis are most liable to lead to alcohol abuse to an 18-or 19-year-old than a beer," Dean of Students David Roemer said in an April 18, 1984 article -a refrain echoed by administrators today. 
Other recommendations included bans on dorm room bars and the presence of under­age students at hall parties where alcohol was served. 
"When I first came here, we were at 'A,' which was totally dry,'' then-University President Father Theodore Hesburgh said in a May 7, 1984 article. "Then later we went to 'Z,' which was pretty wet. Now we're going to 'M,' which is somewhere in between the two extremes." 
"Alcohol is alcohol is alcohol" 
Students returned in August 1984 to find the previous spring's proposed alcohol policy revised and finalized. 
This time, tailgates came under fire. 
"No student, student organi­zation, or residence hall may organize or sponsor 'tailgaters' on campus or on any adjacent fields or parking lots at any time for the purpose of serving alcoholic beverages," the report read. 
The originally proposed report had not made such a restriction based on the expla­nation that "it would be almost impossible to eliminate alcohol at tailgaters on football week­ends." But the Board of Trustees found fault with this reasoning. 
"When they brought this up, it seemed to make a distinction between alcohol abuse and where it was done," said John Goldrick, then-associate vice president for Residence Life. "And it seemed not to address the final issue -the responsi­ble use of alcohol. It became a matter of legal liability as well as educational liability." 
The ban on private parties still stood, although the numeric limit on guests was left to rector discretion. But hard alcohol was back. 
"Alcohol is alcohol is alcohol," Goldrick said. "The distinction has not been made in these reg­ulations." 
Then-Vice President for Student Affairs Father David Tyson said hard alcohol was acceptable when consumed moderately. 
"The primary reason for the change. in policy is if the University says that consump­tion in moderation is allowed then we allow the consumption of alcohol," Tyson said. "I don't want to have policies that are meaningless, or not enforced." 
In marked contrast to the pre­vious spring's uprising, student reaction was subdued. 
"In my opinion now, we really haven't got a fight," Bertino said. "I think we would be more or less wasting our time." 
"We've tried to avoid extremes" 
The next significant policy change came in August 1988 along with a new University President -Father Edward Malloy. After a year of review; the Task Force on Whole Health and the Use and Abuse of Alcohol produced a new policy banning alcohol at hall formals. 
The policy limited residence halls to one hall formal each semester and set restrictions on funding for the dances -specif­ically, no University or hall funds, or funds collected from the sale of dance tickets, can be used to purchase alcohol. The hall was also banned from dis­tributing or supplying alcohol in any public or private area. 
"I think this is a moderate policy that requires some degree of compromise. It's awfully hard to make everybody happy," Malloy said. "We've tried to avoid extremes and find a middle route." 
"Save the SYR" 
It was almost 15 years before University alcohol policy changed once more. 
On March 19, 2002, Vice President for Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman announced the ban of hard alcohol in residence halls, the end of in-hall "screw-your­roommate" (SYR) dances and the enforcement of the rule that only students of legal age may host tailgates in designated parking lots. 
Student government printed thousands of signs reading "We need a voice" and "Save the SYR" for students to hang in windows across campus. Student leaders expressed dis­content with the University's system -similar to Bertino and David in 1984. 
"The real frustration of execu­tive cabinet was about students having a voice in these deci­sions," senior class president Peter Rossman said in a March 20, 2002 Observer article. "It could be any big decision, not just alcohol." 
And while it wasn't the 2,000 students of 1984, 600 students marched to the Main Building on March 20, 2002. 
Wielding "Save Liquor" signs and flaming copies of duLac, the students chanted "We Want a Voice" and rallied around their frustration. 
"This is about dorm unity. This is about a hell of a lot more than hard alcohol," said Joe Muto, O'Neill Hall president­elect, in a March 21, 2002 Observer article. "If you want to take my Mardi Gras !O'Neill SYR] away, if you want to take my dorm unity away, then you'll have to pry them out of my cold, dead hands." 
Muto added that he refused to be "pushed around by a bunch of celibate, white men." 
The ban on in-hall SYRs, a practice steeped in Notre Dame tradition, was particularly con­troversial. 
'The SYRs had just seemed to lished in 1949, when the stu­come out of the blue," Amy dent manual allowed female O'Connor, Club Coordination visitors in private rooms before Council representative, said in 9p.m. the March 20 article. 'To think That time moved up to 6 p.m. when my brother comes here, in 1952, and in 1956, women he's not going to get to go to an weren't allowed anywhere on SYR in his dorm, is something I campus after 9 p.m. unless can't believe." going to or from the Student 
The rationale behind outlaw­Center or "any other official ing in-hall SYRs was linked with place of entertainment," the that behind banning hard alco­student manual read. hol. With in-dorm dances, too The 1961 Student Guide many students could periodical­included a section entitled ly go back up to their rooms and "The Student as a Gentleman," take shots, Farley rector Sister which read, "The Notre Dame 
Carrine Etheridge  student clearly  
told the South Bend Tribune in October 2002.  "/ don't want to have policies that  sees that it is not fitting to ent~r­tain ladies in a  
The South Bend Tribune reported on the Notre Dame  are meaningless, or not enforced. "  men's residence hall. Neither the visitors nor the  
"drinking game"  hall's residents  
on May 12, 2002. Fifty ambulances  David Tyson former Vice President  would be at per­fect ease."  
were sent to cam­ for Student Affairs  The University  

pus during the 2001-02 academic year to bring inebriated people to Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center, the article read. 
But after the policy change, that number began to drop ­eight people during the first eight weeks of the fall 2002 semester, compared with 25 during the same period the year before, the Tribune reported Oct. 13 2002. 
"We realized pretty plainly, pretty clearly after that that we had a problem that needed to be addressed and haven't had anything close to that kind of problem since,'' Associate Vice President of Student Affairs Bill Kirk said. "It's all about educa­tion." 
"Suspension or dismissal" 
Before 1949, there were no visitors allowed in residence halls without rector permis­sion. The precursor to the University's current parietals policy -which never fails to elicit strong opinions on both sides of the issue -was estab­
began to gradu­

ally open the campus to women in 1967, with a directive allowing women guests in student rooms on occasions announced by the Dean of Students, such as football weekends and Mardi Gras. 
In 1969, the Board of Trustees approved a "Hall Life Experiment," quickly followed by changes in 1970 implement­ing a parietals system allowing women guests in men's rooms until 11 p.m. on weeknights and 2 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights. 
With the coming of 1972 came the official admittance of women to Notre Dame. No longer guests on campus, women were members of the residential community. Parietals were extended until midnight on weeknights. 
The gravity of the rule was fully articulated with the 1984 addition of a sentence to duLac: "Overnight parietals violations involve suspension or dismissal." 
In 1986, the administration approved a minor change in the parietals policy allowing rectors discretion to extend Sunday night parietals to 12:30 a.m. 
"In pretty good shape" 
duLac states that the Associate Vice President for Residence Life will make a "best effort" to inform the Campus Life Council -a group composed of adminstrators, faculty, rectors and students that serves as an advisory board to Poorman -of policies under consideration in the next edition of duLac before the group's March meeting. 
"!University policy! doesn't change a lot," Kirk said. "It's in pretty good shape. I think the rules accurately and fairly completely state the expecta­tions of the University with regards to behavior." 
Kirk said the decision to revise policies originates from meetings between the senior staff of the Office of Student Af'fairs, which includes himself, Poorman and the other associ­ate and assistant vice presi­dents. 
"If there's some substantive regulation that we need to address or change, we would consider that and pass it to the Office of Hesidence Life to develop a regulation to that The Office of Residence Life produces an official regulation, which is then presented to the Campus Life Council for feed­back," he said. 
While change is inevitable, the majority of the rules and regulations outlined in duLac have stood the test of time, largely due to their roots in traditional Notre Dame values and the idea of education. The third article in this series will examine current regulations, rationales and their roots. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
Do you want a great summer job on campus? 


06 SUMMER NCE HALL STAFF 
The Office of Residence Life and Housing is currently aCCfpting early applications for 
OTIII.nd.edu/employment 
Applicationsi'"on-line until Feb. gg Interview sign-up: call 1-5878 Interviews: Nov. 16 -Dec. 9 
Interviews will be in 305 Main Building. 

OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
oil&fi 


Monday, November 14, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 page 10 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 14, 2005 

ENGLAND 
'Baby Branson' begins own airline company at age 19 
Alpha One Airline flights set to begin Nov. 21, hoped Southhampton connection attracts business commuters 
Associated Press 
LONDON -The founder of Britain's newest airline is dis­cussing his business vision when a very different image pops into his head -that of his newly hired troop of stew­ardesses. 
At just 19 years old, entre­preneur Martin }~alstead may be forgiven for displaying pre­occupations more adolescent than corporate. 
"They're all very good look­ing," he said of the onboard staff of Alpha One Airways, which made its debut flight this week between the south of England and the Isle of Man, a tax haven off the southeast coast. ''I'm very pleased with the uniforms." 
But he is as quick to talk about his very real achieve­ments, seemingly lifted direct from the average teenager's daydreams: He set up his first business at 15, and qualified as a pilot at 18. Now, regular passenger flights on the new airline are due to start Nov. 21. 
As the face of the airline, bawdy talk fits neatly with the persona he wants to project. "I see myself as a James Bond type," he said, and added that he hopes to be driving an Aston found that jobs were very hard to come by, and I was chatting with a friend and we kind of joked that I should start up my own airline," he said. 
The airline is not his first venture. He's been bringing in cash since he was 15, when he started selling his own com­puter programs -flight simu­lators. 
Halstead wouldn't say how much he made from the sale of that business a few months ago, l:!ut acknowledged it amounted to about two-thirds of startup costs of Alpha One. Living with his mother in their Oxford home also freed up cash. And Mohammed Moinuddin, a Dubai business­man, invested $440,000 after becoming friends with Halstead at Oxford Air Training School. 
Though his youth has drawn plenty of welcome publicity, Halstead has insisted that "age is just a number." He points out that he is the youngest of his 26-strong team by a good seven years, but that his board of directors boast years of business and airline experi­ence. He'll be trying to keep them happy by initially flying 2,000 passengers a month. 
EuroManx, another Isle of 
Man airline, flew 
roughly that 


Martin fairly soon.  "/ don't want to be  number until dis- 
If this kind of  the next Richard  continuing  the  
personality-driven business strategy  Branson. I want to  route about a month ago, citing  
sounds familiar,  be the first Martin  high charges at  
it's  because  Halstead."  Southampton air­ 
Halstead  has  port.  
honed his plans in  Halstead  
talks with Richard  Martin Halstead  believes  
Branson,  chair­ entrprenuer  EuroManx floun­ 

man -and ubiq­uitous public rela­tions face -of the Virgin group of companies. 
"He's been so fantastic," said Halstead, who was invited on Virgin's inaugural flight to Mumbai after Branson read about him -inevitably earn­ing Halstead the "Baby Branson" tag from the British press. 
"Basically, he said the most important thing about how you present your business is in how you present yourself," Halstead said. 
The admiration is mutual, with Branson describing Halstead as being "as bright as a button." 
But air hostesses and Richard Branson are the glam­orous end of the industry. When Halstead resolved to start the business, it was part­ly to address a more prosaic concern: He was worried about getting a job. He has been a plane fanatic since his first flight at age 6 and quit halfway through his studies for his A­level exams -the British equivalent of the SATs -at D'Overbroecks College in Oxford to train for his pilot license, which he was awarded age 18. 
"When I started looking I 
dered by flying 

large planes half­empty; he thinks success lies in flying smaller 19-seat turbo­prop planes at full capacity. 
The airline is starting with just one plane on the Southampton to Isle of Man shuttle. Flights have no meal service, but offer complimenta­ry champagne; tickets can be purchased directly from the airline and through travel agents. 
Halstead is banking on inter­est from business travelers whom he believes will happily fork out from $175 for the 90­minute f1ight when the alter­native is a ferry ride and a couple of train connections that can eat up the best part of a day. 
"They're quite simple to please. They're not interested in bells and whistles. All they want is for you to leave on time," he said. 
Malcolm Ginsberg, editor of Air and Business Travel News, warned that the success of flights within Britain has so far been limited to main routes such as London to Edinburgh or London to Glasgow. 
"Once you get routes that are off the beaten track they become difficult to operate ­the public have got used to paying very low fares, and it's attractive to business com­not really possible to offer muters because it has good those fares on these sort of links to the island of Jersey, flights," Ginsberg said. another tax haven. 
"I don't want to knock some­There are already plans to thing when he might make a fly from the Isle of Man to success out of it, but Isle of Cardiff and Edinburgh, which Man to Southampton isn't the are both discontinued routes first route that springs to that Halstead thinks could be mind. It's not an impossible successfully resurrected. one, we'll just have to wait and Meantime, Halstead's Alpha see." One still has the folksiness of 
Halstead said he believes the the typical startup -instead Southampton connection is of shots of a gleaming air fleet, the company Web site is domi­nated by a photograph of a man jumping up and down and flapping his arms. And it turns out Nick, the man who answers the ticket line, is also one of the pilots. 
Halstead refuses to be drawn on any long-term goals. But he is clear about one thing: "I don't want to be the next Richard Branson," he said. "I want to be the first Martin Halstead." 
The Centerfor Ethics lllld Religious Values in Business 
lllld 

The Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide 
Proudly Present 
Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Our Ethics -The One Thing in the World Over Which We Have Complete Control" 
Stan Hubbard, CEO Hubbard Broadcasting Company and KSTP-TV ofMinneapolis-St. Paul 
Tuesday, November 15, 2005 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium 

Mendoza College of Business 
Monday, November 14, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
McCain vvarns torture policies tarnish Alllerican illlage 
believe in and practice. And
Associated Press 
that is an observance of human 
WASHINGTON -Sen. John rights, no matter how terrible McCain said Sunday that our adversaries may be." Arnnrica's image abroad could Underscoring his fundamen­bn ruinnd if Congress doesn't tal support for the administra­ban the torture of prisonnrs in tion's position on going to war 
U.S. custody. with Iraq, McCain said it is 
McCain, who was torturnd legitimate "to criticize and to during the Vintnam War, is the disagree and to debate" the leading supporter or a provi­administration policy, "but I sion banning want to say, I such inhumane think it's a lie to trnatmenl. say that the presi­
Whitn llouse "Torture cannot be dent lied to the 
officials, howev­American people " 
justified. " 
er, have thrnat­about prewar nned a prnsiden­intelligence on tial vlllo of any. John McCain weapons of mass bill with rnstric­destruction.
senator 
tions on handling The Hepublican­dntainnns, saying led Senate has it would limit the a p p r o v e d presidnnt's ability to protect McCain's anti-torture provision Arnnrieans and prevent a ter­-an instance of rare defiance rorist attack. of President Bush's wartime 
"II' wn arn vinwed as a eoun­authority. try that engagos in torture ... But prospects of the bill any possible information wn clnaring tho House of might be able to gain is far Hepresentatives are uncertain. eountnrbalaneed by [the nega­Vice President Dick Cheney has livnl niTect of public opinion," vigorously lobbied Congress to McCain, H-Ariz., said on CBS' drop or modify the detainee "Face tho Nation." provisions, and wants to 
Tnrrorists are "the quintes­exempt the Central Intnlligence snnee of evil," he said. "But it's Agency from the proposed tor­not about them; it's about us. ture ban. This battle we're in is about McCain said he hopes to the things we stand for and rnach a compromise with the White House. But he said that after the discovery of wide­spread prisoner abuse at the Abu Ghraib facility in Iraq, public opinion about the United States has plummeted worldwide. 
"We've got two wars going on: one a military one in Iraq, and then we've got a war for public opinion, for the hearts and minds of all the people in the world," McCain said. "We've got to make sure that we don't torture people." 
Stephen Hadley, Bush's national security adviser, said on CNN's "Late Edition" that the White House was working with McCain and other law­makers to "come up with an approach that both allows us to do what we need to do to defend the country against ter­rorist attack and, at the same time, make good on the presi­dent's commitment that we will not torture and we will act within the bounds of law." 
Hadley went on to describe a hypothetical situation that imagined one of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorists had been arrested a few days before the attacks. 
"It's a difficult dilemma to know what to do in that cir­cumstance to both discharge our responsibility to protect the American people from ter­rorist attack and follow the president's guidance of staying within the confines of law," he said. "These are diff'icult issues." 
Democratic Sen. Carl Levin, however, said it's "unthinkable that the vice president of the United States continues to insist upon ari exception for the CIA, saying they should not be bound by our torture poli­cy." 

"Torture can't be justified," he told CNN. 
Angioplasty becomes outpatient procedure 
New approach allows growing number of patients requiring an artery cleansing safe, healthy alternative 
Associa1ed Press going to turn the trend" and get artery open. Next, they tested the need to 504 patients given the single 
more doctors to try it, said Dr. 1\vo kinds of complications can keep patients overnight by giving drug dose versus 28 in the other 
DALLAS -It's not as routine Timothy Gardner, a Delaware occur: bleeding from the leg inci­half the patients in their study a 501 patients. as having your teeth deaned, cardiologist who heads the sion and reclog-single dose of anti­The combination of arm angio­but a growing number of people meeting committee but did not ging of the heart clotting medication plasty and single-dose drug arn going to hospitals to get their have a role in the research. artery. and sending them treatment "is extremely safe," heart arteries unclogged and Angioplasty is one of the most To avoid the 'This is the kind of home 4 to 6 hours Bertrand said. going home the same day. common medical techniques in first problem, study that's going afterward. The other The study was funded by Eli 
New researeh presented by the world. About 600,000 are Canadian half got standard Lilly and Co., Bristol-Myers
to turn the trend. " 
Canadian researchers Sunday at done each year in the United researchers led treatment: the single Squibb and Sanoli-Aventis, mak­an American lleart Association States alone. by Dr. Olivier dose plus a 12-hour ers of HeoPro, the anti-clotting conference suggests a new Through an artery in the leg Bertrand of Timothy Gardner intravenous o'ne drug used in the experiment. approach to angioplasty makes it near the groin, doctors snake a Laval Hospital cardiologist given overnight in Bertrand said he had no finan­safe to send patients home the tube to blockages that are clog­Research Center the hospital. cial ties to any of the companies. same day. Complications were ging vessels and preventing in Quebec did Six months later, Outpatient angioplasty is com­no greatnr for those who went them from supplying enough angioplasty a the rates of major mon in France, Japan, Canada, homo a few hours afterward blood to the heart. A tiny balloon different way, using an artery in bleeding, heart attacks or need Germany, much of South than for those who were hospi­is inl'lated to flatten the crud, the arm near the wrist instead of for repeat procedures to treat America and Australia, and is talized ovnrnight. and a mesh scaffold called a one in the leg, which greatly blockages were nearly identical growing in popularity around 
"This is the kind of study that's stent is left behind to prop the reduced bleeding. in the two groups: 30 among the the United States. 
Why? United for Pakistan Earthquake Relief 
More than 75,600 (17,000 children) killed Another 10,000 children at risk of dying due to terrain inaccessibility 20,000 children will have physical impairments and the numbers are increasing daily! 
Information Forthcotning 
Dr. Elizabnth Nabel, dimctor of the National lleart, Lung and Blood Institute, thinks it's a good trend for people with simple, routine blockages in non-emer­gency situations. 
"It helps reduce costs of unnecessary hospitalization," she said. Lowering hospital costs can offsets the 1~xpense of drug­coated stents that in rtlcent years became the standard of care because they cut tho chances that an artery will redog. That risk is now less than 
0.1 percent, Nabel said. But many doctors remain leery of outpatient angioplasty. 
"My view is that we're not ready for that," said Dr. Eric Topol, a cardiologist at the Cleveland Clinic. 
The arm approach holds a lot of promise, but doctors will bn reluctant to learn it because they've all been trained to usn the leg artery, Topol said. 
The Society of lntnrvnntional Hadiology's guidelines note that studies so far have found no greater rate of complications, but the group still recommends that angioplasty patients bP kept overnight. 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 12 
Monday, November 14, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
The loudest silence 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabu]as AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SroRTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala SAJNT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.J@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS &WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudents ofthe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

11tc: 01~ (USPS ~99 2-4000) Is. puhiMuxl Monday through Friday exa:pt during exam and vm~tion period~. A5ubscription m The Observer is $100 for o.ne-aad_c:mic year; $55 fin one scml':li1er. 
The Ob.crvcr ib publuohcd at: POSTMASTER 
024 Suuth Dining Hall &nd address. -correctiOns to; 
Nom: D..me, IN 4655C)..()n9 Thc:Ohsnva · Pt:riudic.tl po~ot;age paiJ at Nouc Dame P.O. Box 779 
;md addirion;~l mailing office:.. 02-i Soruh Dining Hall 

Nolf'e Dame,lN 4655(....0n9 
The Oblcrver i-5 a member ofthe J\ssoci:ucd Press. AU !eproduet:fon rights arc re5ervc:d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Nicole Zook Mike Gilloon 
Kelly Meehan Chris Khorey Viewpoint Fran Tolan Laura Sonn Scene Graphics Molly Griffm 
Graham Ebetsch 
It was another Notre Dame-Navy game this past weekend, an affair that these days seems to be as fresh as Grandma's ubiquitous fruitcake. We all know the routine; these two teams face each other, Notre Dame wins, Navy loses, dance a jig, yadda yadda yadda. It's been that way for 42 years now, and Saturday's game was no different. Save a 7-7 tie in the begin­ning of the game, the Irish had their way with Navy, to the tune of a 42-21 final score. The weather was beautiful, the team looked great, and the home crowd at Notre Dame Stadium had plenty to cheer about on Saturday. 
However, the most impressive event in that stadium was when 80,795 people did no cheering at all. No yelling, no talking. not even an odd sneeze. Dead silence. That's what the Navy band received at the end of the game while they played their alma mater. 
Well, it wasn't entirely silent where I was standing for the game. Just a few rows behind me, a couple Knievelesque Navy fans had made it into the student section with the help of some erroneous ticket booklets and a Notre Dame sen­ior. And while Navy played their alma mater, one of their fans sang along. An opposing student, singing his alma mater in our student section. Surely he must have a death wish. But on this day, no jeers, insults, or contentious voices were heard; thousands of oppos­ing fans simply listened as a solitary 

Peter Schroeder 
Wzll Write for Food 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
voice in a crowd of thousands rang out and sang for the Navy Blue and Gold. That silence, that voice and the goose bumps on my arm after it was all said and done is what makes this rivalry special. 
It's easy to overlook the annual Notre Dame-Navy game. When one team wins 42 times in a row, there's not a whole lot of drama reserved for the football field. However, this historic match-up goes far beyond anything that could happen between the side­lines. The game is more of a ritual than anything else, an opportunity for each team to show their respect for the other. Notre Dame is forever grateful to Navy for supporting the University through tough times during World War II, and the Irish pay back the Middies by playing them year in, and year out. It's our way of saying "thanks" for something done half a century ago, and playing the game is all that matters, not who wins or loses. Of course, that's easy to say when you're on the winning end of 42 years of games, but I digress. 
Remember when we were looking for a football coach, seemingly eons ago? One of the things that is always listed in the job requirements is a guy who gets Notre Dame. He has to get "it." Notre Dame may not be able to describe in words what "it" is, but the coach has got to have "it." If people weren't convinced yet, the end of Saturday's game proved Charlie Weis has "it" coming out of his ears. After convincingly crushing the opponent, Charlie led the team over to Navy's cor­ner of the field to sing their alma mater. Just minutes before, these two teams walked on that grass as dire enemies, but now they walked across as one. Hopefully next year Charlie can show Michigan State how a real team celebrates a victory. 
With no time left on the clock and the outcome decided, this respectful ges­ture wasn't about Navy's football team; it was about Navy. It was a sobering reminder that what we just poured all of our energy into was just a game. Many times that's easy to forget at Notre Dame, where football lies in the hierarchy of priorities somewhere between inhaling and exhaling. While we can spend countless hours worrying about Sagarin rankings, passing effi­ciency, and Mark May, Navy has bigger fish to fry. We may claim that we must protect this house, but Navy must pro­tect something way bigger. 
Sure, the last time Navy beat us, the twinkles in our parents' eyes weren't even us, but rather a Barbie Doll or a 
G.l. Joe. And sure, with Charlie at the helm, a loss to Navy doesn't seem forthcoming in the near future. Lee Corso will never come to a Notre Dame-Navy game. NonethPless, I know I'll be looking forward to this rnatchup for years to come. I'll look forward to being able to cheer for everybody, clap for both fight songs, and enjoy a game for what it is, a game. Thank you, Notre Dame football players, for show­ing respect to an opponent who right­fully deserves it. Thank you, Charlie, for leading the team in that gesture. But most of all, thank you, Navy, for nothing football-related whatsoever. 
Peter Schroeder is a senior English major. He can be reached at pschroed@nd.edu. He hopes you're having a good day. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 

Are you planning to go to the last pep rally? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Su:·h•···J~~~tl t:~tt~er
~ 
,.,... _/ .;,..-.:,: ··.·-./~ ·-.:. Q .< ..<•::::::\-'" -~.... ··-·-. ::::: 
: : ' ;: {:' -:···· u.
.~: < -:
to,.··. t•.h:"E··.·.'.. d··.:.·.J·'·t···ft,r· a,t·.· 
.. · . ./.. .,...-· ~ ~--:,._.,::::--:.-.:... -. ·_,/ _· =: .. _:_ ,, 
www.ndsme0bse.rvef.cmn
·...-· .. _:>:._:=·I ...-: ., 'W. ·. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"One ofthe strongest characteristics of genius is the power o[ lighting its own fire. ' 
John Watson Foster American diplomat 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, November 14, 2005 page 13 
U-WIRE 
Americans lack literary enrichment 
Anwriea has a problem, and we, as college stu­donts, aro ono of the leading contributors to it. 
Aeeording to a study eondueted in 2002 by the National Endowment for the Arts ("Heading at risk: a survey of literary reading in Ameriea," available online at www.arts.gov), only 46.7 rwn~ont of the adult u.s. population Arcadiy reads litorature. The study asked Kantor moro than 17,000 individuals whether they had read any novels, 
The Technique
short stories, plays or poetry in 
Georgia Tech
thoir leisure time over the past 12 
University

months. More than half of the sur­veyed population answered no. 
When I first read these results a year ago my jaw litorally droppod. Less than half of the American pop­ulation is taking the time to read for pleasure? Sell your Barnos & Noble stock ladies and gentlemen, the eountry is hoadcd straight to hell! 
The population of readers in the U.S. dropped by morn than soven percent botwecn 1992 and 2002. Total book reading (56.(, percent of the population had read any book at all in the 12 months prior to the study) is also dedining, although at a slower rate. 
I've seen the truth of the study in my own conversa­tions. Morn and more of my peers say they wouldn't think of pieking up a book for entertainment, prefer­ring tho mindless diversions of hllevision and movies. 
And tlwn, of eoursn, there is the Internet. I'm a Computer Sdenee major, so I would eonsider myself a ratlwr large fan of the Web -bordering on addict, in l"a1~t. But the Internet is a vast repository of content, and what you do with it detnrmines the benefit you gain from it. Thanks to sites like Projnct Gutenberg (www.gutnnbnrg.orgl and the Baen Free Library (www.bann.eom!library/), you can even read full­length books online. 
But most peoplo who spend their the time online do so ehatting or browsing uttorly pointh~ss sites like Myspaen or lllJaum's World. That doesn't do anything positivn for anyonn. 
Ev1m morn disturbing than the general trend, how­evor, is tho doereaso among adults 1 H-24 years old­eollngn studnnts, in other words. Only 42.8 percent of people in this age group read literary works, and the drop sinee 19H2 is a whopping 2H percent compared to only IH percent for the total population. 
That's not just sad, in my opinion, it's nearly jump­off-a-bridge-in-a-final-blaze-of-glory depressing. Why aren't we reading'! 
There arc two answers I hear most frequently from my peers. The first and more unfortunate of the two is that many people simply have no interest in books these days. Perhaps they're engrossed in Desperate Housewives, or maybe they are too obsessed with Soul Calibur 3, but the point is that fewer and fewer people look on books as a viable entertainment medi­um. 
It seems that for students, imagination is but a relic of the past. This is unfortunate, because reading has a wide array of benefits. If there's one thing many engineers are accused of, it's their inability to write eoherently (a very legitimate accusation, as anyone who's evnr had to drudge through a scholarly paper in engineering knows). The first and most important step in learning to write well is to read, read and read some more. 
If becoming a better communicator is 
not enough justification for becoming a It seems that for getting books to students and would not reader, other attractions abound. even be that difficult to implement. Tho
students,
Keeping a novel handy assures you have administration could also help profes­
imagination is but 
available entertainment in the dentist's sors get tho ball rolling by providing lobby, during an airplane flight or any a relic ofthe past. opportunities to read and diseuss novels ject of their elasses. Wouldn't both parties benefit if a student could road a quality novel that relates to issues covered within the class'! The professor could possibly pique another person's interest in his or her field, and the student gains a deepor understanding of the class by seeing it from another porspective. 
In fact, I think this is sueh a great idea that I will impart upon any professors who happnn to read this a simple three-step program for encouraging stu­dents to read: · 
1. 
Include a list of pertinent books intorestnd stu­dents can read on your syllabus. 

2. 
Provide incentives for studnnts who read those novels, such as extra credit for writing a paper on the subject. 

3. 
Try to actually givo your students time to read by not overloading them with homework, projects or papers every week. 


Maybe I'm being idealistic, but I think these three steps would go rather far in 
time you just have 15 minutes to kill. 
Furthermore, books are the single most affordable entertainment medium, par­ticularly in terms of' hours of enjoyment per dollar. Just think about it: a movie that is two hours long can cost $20 or more to buy on DVD. A video game that may take 30 hours to beat will run about $50. A novel, on the other hand, can provide anywhere from live to 50 hours of entertainment and is most likely available in a paperback edition that won't break seven bucks. And if you want to try before you buy, books are still superior; the Blockbuster of nov­els, your public library, has the additional advantage of renting its materials out for free. 
Fortunately for those of us who would like to see books return to prominence, the other impediment to people's rnading can be removed. Many college students who would otherwise read a novel or 20 say they simply don't have time to read during school. The keys to this problem are in the hands of profes­sors and administrators. 
Professors should go out of their way to encourage students to read books that are pertinent to the sub-
that relate to their disciplines. And whilo wo're at it. dear adminis­trators, could we please get more than the token 15 novels in our library? 
All of this is niee to think about, but unfortunately I cannot realistically expect my suggestions to be implemented in my time here, if ever. As such, boat­ing back the encroaching approaeh of illitnraey is up to the students. If you're reading this e1ditorial, clearly you're capable of managing a novel as well. So take the time to read a book or three this semes­ter, as well as the next one and the one after that. II' we all do, maybe in 2012, when the study is likoly to be conducted again, we can reverse the drops and show the world that America is still a literate nation. 
This column originally appeared in the Nov. 11 issue of The Technique, the daily publication at Georgia Tech University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Capitalism creates, oppresses lower class 
Any eapitalist culture will produce and  them except for a job at the local Burger  and socialism provides the perfect blan­ To do so, Wal-Mart finds the highest  
roly upon a distinct elass structure. Karl  King or Wal-Mart. Because of the initial  ket for corporate exploitation.  price that is still lower than the eompeti­ 
Marx' philosophy of social seienee proves  minimum-wage salary, the subject also  If' individuals eannot afford private  tion, and the lowest wago that is higher  
tlw uppnr class nm~ds a large lower class  must shop at Wal-Mart in order to main­ health care, they are largely guaranteed  than other retailers, and creatns a  
in ordnr to maintain power in a capitalist  tain a bearable lifestyle.  assistance from the state. This makes  medioerc median for the lower elasses to  
sodnty.  If the subject decides to marry and  health care a closed system. Our subject  dwell in perpetually.  
America's largest cor­ Ivan  start a family, an already low income  cannot atrord health care, so the govern­ Marxism claims the only chance for  
poration, W1tl-Mart Storns, Inc., provides a  Lovegren  must now provide for additional mouths, making it exponentially difficult to pro­ ment pays the ehild's doctor bills. As long as the government is paying  the lower class to rise from its station comes through a self-motivated mass  
simple example for dis­cussing eapitalism and elass structuro. Opponnnts of eorpo­ratn Amnrica quickly  Daily Nebra..">kan University of Nebraska  vide for each new child. Aceording to the National Center for llealth Statistics, more than 50 percent of marriages end in divorce (2003). Thus, our subject may lind himself rais­ the bills, the health care provider can increase its costs and be assured of pay­ment. By increasing costs, it further eliminates the possibility of the lower­class parent earning enough money to  education. In modern context, this may be stated as a mass awareness of the system. If the American proletariat wants to sec an improvement in his or her station,  
point out a statistic  ing one or more chil­ move to a private  we must ehoose to avoid convnnience for  
W!tl-Mart publiely recognizes: A single  dren on Wal-Mart's  health care provider.  the sake of greater societal issues. Too  
parnnt working full-time at a W!tl-Mart store inevitably finds his or her family living below the poverty line. llowever, on average, Wai-Mart otTers  2003 average annual cashier salary of $11,948. This is $1,000 below the  The average American cannot break out ofthis pattern ofself-perpetuating  This cycle is paral­leled by trends in public education, retirement savings  often the road of eonvenionce is used to make life bearable, instead instigating change through the systmn's flaws. We can choose to follow the pattern of  
bPttnr bnnelits and starting pay to employees than most other retail chains, dnspitn failing to match most independ­ent grocers in average employee wages. Last week independent researcher c;Iobal Insight concluded Wal-Mart has a "net positive impact" on communities in  poverty level if the parent has only one child. In this position, the subject relies on pub­lic education, subsi­dized lunch programs  capitalism, while our flawed social systems provide nothing more than incentives for corporate growth.  and welfare, while forcing an increase in taxation. Tax increas­es further suppress our subject, as trends over the past 20 years invariably favor  the past decade and watch our eountry's wealth flow toward the disproportionatn­ly small number of Americans in the upper class, while the masses placate themsnlves with 60-hour workwneks and TV dinners. Or we can face this issue hoad-on,  
the form of job creation, retail savings  and Medicare ­ the  the upper class.  working to eliminate the growing gap  
and real wages. Still, a "net positive impaet" is not enough to justify the cycle eorporate W!tl-Mart represents for lower-class America.  second cycle of capitalist class oppres­sion. The American system is not pure capi­talism, but rather a free market econo­my augmented by social systems run by  The average American cannot break out of this pattern of self-perpetuating capitalism, while our flawed social sys­tems provide nothing more than incen­tives for corporate growth.  between American social classes. The choke belongs to us, our society and how we deal with the capitalist system. This column originally appeared in the  
Tho cycle, emerging in the past 50 yours through retail and fast-food growth and capitalist soda! systems, goos like this: An unedueated member of the lower  the government for general prosperity. Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal pro­grams of the Great Depression era sought to aid the lower class struggle against capitalism.  In a capitalist system the power ulti­mately belongs to the consumer. This means the only way Wal-Mart ean undercut competition with lower prices is by increasing sales volume and mak­ Nov. 11 issue ofthe Daily Nl~braskan, the daily publication at the University of Nebraska. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily  
class has no opportunities available to  However, this confusion of capitalism  ing up the difierence in price.  those ofThe Observer.  


-----~~~~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

THE OBSERVER 
CENE 
Monday, November 14, 2005 

Save today's youth from the radio 
When the clock struck midnight on Jan. 1, 2000, we didn't all spontaneously combust, and our computers didn't start spewing out death threats in binomial code. Nobody was 
raptured up to the North Star to live with Elvis, and it turned out there was no need to seek shel­ter among the cans of Harmel Chili stored in the base­ment. The lights did­


n't as much as flick­

er. But as the '90s Mary Squillace expired and we entered the new mil­
lennium, something Scene Writer catastrophic did hap­pen. 
Popular music, as we knew and loved it, died. 

While it's difficult to imagine a time when music thrived in the absence of iPods, the 1990s supplied us with a veri­table buffet of delectably catchy and memorable songs across genres. More importantly, the radio was an audio bea­con of wisdom and solace for our genera­tion, leading us out of childhood and safely into adolescence one hit song after another. 
Upon first glance, the 1990s may seem like a wasteland for one-hit-wonders or a decade-long sugar high, fueled by the likes of Ace of Base and New Kids on the Block. And while it's partially true -the '90s remain unmatched in their selection of upbeat pop and dance tunes -they stand for a time when the problems of the world fell away to beguiling beats and lighthearted, ambiguous lyrics. 
The music of the decade was riddled with enigmatic song premises and even made-up words. We may never under­stand why Whitetown (seemingly made up of a group of men) could never be "Your Woman" (and why they would want to be), or whether Ace of Base means that "All That She Wants" is another baby literally or figuratively. Likewise, we will probably never grasp the etymology behind phrases like "Tubthumping," "Blu Da Ba Dee" and "Mmm Bop." However, in spite of how cheesy and nonsensical these lyrics are, their inherent catchiness has immortal­ized songs like these. 
When it comes to boy bands and teen queens, the '90s represent an age of innocence. Reputations untarnished by rehab stints or relationships with notori­ous party girls, members of boy bands wore their matching ensembles like pris­tine boy-scout uniforms. Likewise, Britney and Christina were as pure and virginal as if they had shimmied right out of the womb and onto MTV. Little has to be said for what has become of these stars today. 
However, the effects of the fluffy and bright mainstream pop and dance music were kept in check by the gritty sounds of alternative bands like Nirvana, Bush, Pearl Jam and the Smashing Pumpkins. With their torn jeans, greasy hair and, most of all, true musical talent, these artists provided us an outlet for our pent­up pre-teen angst. 
Today, mall-punk bands try to tap into the same audience with their whiny lyrics and facial piercings and with insuf­ficient musical fortitude. Within the Hock-Alternative genre, bands such as Nickleback and Three Doors Down con­tinue to rasp different lyrics over the same tired song and as a result, still receive airplay that is inversely propor­tional to the amount of talent they pos­sess. It's no wonder kids these days 
struggle to express themselves. 
Similarly, music today seriously lacks a 
strong female presence, unlike the '90s. 
In our day, Alanis ruled as the queen of 
righteous rage, whereas today's youth is 
left with Avril Lavigne and Ashlee 
Simpson, who have tried to take on the 
world with little more than a big fat stick 
of black eyeliner. 

Though her recent efforts with 
"Hollaback Girl" ensure that she will 
either make the varsity cheerleading 
squad or win a first grade spelling bee, 
Gwen Stefani's latest hits leave some­
thing to be desired with her original fan 
base. 

While she and Garbage's Shirley 
Manson once established credibility with their fierce lead vocals, today the Black­Eyed Peas' Sarah Ferguson inspires by singing about her "lovely lady lumps." How empowering. 
In addition to experiencing a musically­mediated catharsis of frustration and anger via alternative artists of tl1e 1990s, kids today may actually be completely devoid of emotion. 
Boyz II Men stood alone in their ability to endow meaning to middle school romances and sweaty-palmed slow dances across the entire country. In fact, it's difficult to fathom how 13-year-olds today will ever learn to love sans the Mo­Town Philly foursome. What's more, ten years ago, tunes by Mariah, Whitney, and Phil Collins were readily available to the average smitten 16 year old via main­stream radio, whereas today such bal­lads can only be safely enjoyed secretly, usually after dark on adult contemporary specialty shows. Not that any of us would know about that. 
And of course, no exploration of the '90s would be complete without mention­ing the force of the 1990s dance craze. 
Together, we put our hands to our hips and dipped, took a walk with Will Smith and the Men in Black and of course, did the Macarena. Under the power of the Macarena, we united not only in our syn­chronized pelvic thrusts, but eventually in our mutual hatred for the song that played nearly every hour, on the hour. Regardless, no song in the 21st century has had even close to the effect of the god awful, but strangely addictive, Macarena. 
Quality music exists today, but it's cer­tainly not readily accessible over the radio. In fact, it's often couched within the folds of music-sharing sites. And, while a rich array of indie artists satisfy the musical appetites of co-eds, think about how many years Tammy Twelve­Year-Old will inevitably spend in therapy after coming of age to the tune of Death Cab for Cutie's "Tiny Vessels"-that kind of music will only put the "emo" into her lifelong emotional baggage. 
Then again, maybe what makes the music of the '90s so good is that it is inextricably nestled among memories of playing pogs under the bleachers at recess, passing notes in Language Arts class and that post-first date awkward embrace (shared while Mom and Dad waited in the van, of course). 
Contact Mary Squillace at msquilla@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Ted Leo rockl 
Indie rock hero returns to alma matt 
By JOE LATTAL 
Scene Writer 

The last time Ted Leo played at the 
LaFortune Ballroom, he lived in Stanford 
Hall, he was with a band called Chisel 
and the calendar read 1990. 
Saying that his return Saturday night 
as part of WVFI's Quadrock show was 
historic is an understatement. The indie 
rock superhero and Notre Dame gradu­
ate (Class of 1994) entertained a sold-out 
crowd with a mix of original songs and 
covers in an electrifying 90-minute set. 
Leo took the stage with bassist Dave 
Lerner and drummer Chris Wilson just . before 10 p.m. in front of more than 200 students down the hall from WVFI, the student-run radio station that sponsored the show and where Leo was a program manager when he was a student in the 
early '90s. 

Leo opened the set with "My Vien Ilin" 
from his 2001 album, "Tyranny of 
Distance." The song began with Leo's 
smooth and accurate voice over rapidly 
changing power chords and finished with 
Wilson and Lerner joining in to repeat 
the main instrumental theme. Fans 
erupted in applause and cheers. Leo 
leapt towards the microphone and said a 
quick "thanks," as he did after every sin­
gle song he played. 
He immediately went into the frantic 
guitar introduction of "Little Dawn" from 
his most recent album, 2004's "Shake the 
Sheets." The audience clapped along to 
the extended introduction that led to dra­
matic, ringing chords of the first verse. 
The song ended with a repetitive 
sequence in which he replayed the intro­
duction and whispered "it's all right" 
more than 100 times over the music 
wh_ile Lerner and Wilson jammed on bass 
and drums. 

There was a scary moment when Leo 
turned away from the audience to cough 
twice before he started the next song. 
The crowd sighed collectively, possibly 
nervous about how much his voice could take before giving out. 
Leo reported earlier in the day that h had been sick and actually cancelled formal interview, but he was still we: enough to play the show. He kept th crowd involved and comfortable b telling jokes about U2 frontman Bon and encouraging the audience to talk t him as he re-tuned. 
Despite the coughing here and ther between a few songs during the se1 there was no noticeable damage o weakness in his voice as he continue' singing for another hour. 
He continued the set with a new song "Sons of Cain," and the recognizable "M1 and Mia" before playing one of hi! biggest hits to date, "Where Have All tlu Rude Boys Gone?" from his 2003 album, "Hearts of Oak." Leo swung his head side to side violently to the music, singing some of his most unforgettable lyrics: 
"Gangsters and clown with a stereo­typed sound I It's coming like a ghost town ... ooh it's easy to see I we could dance to be free I to that two-tone beat I but it looks like it's gone." 
Leo went into "The High Party," one of his more unusual and popular songs. As he hit the high notes of the chorus, his eyebrows went up and his eyelids went down with his head swiveling back and forth on his neck. A bearded and khaki­clad Wilson whipped drumsticks through cymbals as though they weren't even there. Lerner remained mostly still throughout the evening with the bass guitar around his neck, sometimes pedal­ing forward and backward to the beat in a sweater and a mop of curly hair. 
Leo played nine more songs in the main set, a mix of material from all three of his most recent releases. He wrapped it up with the upbeat title track from "Shake the Sheets," a political anthem with an elegant and dramatic decelera­tion at its finale. 
The band left the stage to prolonged cheering, and Leo returned by himself about three minutes later to begin one of the most unordinary encores from a 
CLAIRE KELLEY!The Observer 



NSIDER 
Monday, November 14, 2005 
Notre Dame 42, Navy 21 
Sto..ed away 
Stovall's three touchdowns and the Irish defense keep Midshipmen docked 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sporrs Writer 

Brady Quinn threw for four tout~hdowns. broke Notre Damn's singln-snason passing rneord. led thn No. 7 Irish to a 42-2 I vie tory over Navy and still wa~;>n't happy. 
"I should have donn better, wlwllwr it bn mental mistakns or physir.al things, there's still lots of room for im provmnen t," he said. "I was unhappy with llw way I performed." 
Tlw junior quarterbaek led a balanend Notre Damn attaek that narrwd 505 total yards of oiTnnsn en route to the Irish's NCAA rneord 42nd straight vie­tory over thn Midshipmen. Notre Damn passnd for 2H4 yards and ran for 221, inelud­ing II H from Darius Walknr, his first I00-yard game since lw startnd thn season with four straight. Thn Irish offf1nsive linn did not give up a sack. 
"I think this team is light­ynars better offensively than llwy have been in past years," Navy head coach Paul .Johnson said of the Irish. "Some of the other teams may have been better defensively. Each year tlwy are different." 
Ttw Irish jumped to an early lead after Quinn hit Maurice Stovall in the end zone for a 31-yard score on the lirst drive of the game. But Navy respond­ed with a drive of its own. The Midshipmen went 6H yards in 16 plays on the drive. taking up 
7:45 and tying the game on a nine-yard scamper by Adam Ballard. 
With 5:29 to play in the half. Irish running back Travis Thomas scornd from 12 yards out to put Notre Dame ahead 14-7 after a 71-yard drive. 
Navy got the ball at its own :w after the kickoff, and was driving down the field. But one play af'lnr converting on third­and-?, quarterback Lamar Owens fumbled the option pitch to Ballard. Linebacker Corey Mays recovered for the Irish, and Notrn Damn didn't look hack. 
Notre Damn got the ball at Navy's 49-yard line and three plays later tlw Irish were in tho end zorw. Walker danced in from I;{ yards out to put Notre J>am1• up 21-7 with 2:OS to play in tlw half. 
"Basically, tlwy were doing what they wanted," .Johnson said. 
Navy was tlwn foreed to punt and Notn~ Dame got the ball hark with I :35 to play in the half. Quinn then hit Anthony Navy came out firing in the the first half and the first driv11 Fasano twice -once for 30 second half, driving SO yards of the second half were the two yards, and another for an for its second score of the high points/low points, depend­eight-yard touchdown to put game. Owens ran it in from one ing on perspective," Weis said. the Irish ahead 28-7 at the yard out to make it 28-14. "I think that our defense, in hall'. "I think that the first drive of both cases, settled down al'tnr those drives." 

Notre Damn's defense got back to form, and the ofTense kept putting up points. Quinn hit Stovall for a 16-yard com­pletion and safety Tom Zbikowski intnrcepted an Owens pass at tlw Notre Danw 12-yard line with the Irish up 35-14 to ensure tlw vietory over a tough Navy team. 
"They run what they run with perfection," Irish dnfnnsive lineman Derek I.andri said. "We played hard and we playt~d well and if you don't do that in this game. tlu~n you will be tlw vietim of them putting up a lot of' points." 
Stovall l'inished with l :~o yards receiving on eight l'.ateh­ns, including three touch­downs. Quinn was 22-for-:~ I and beforo his interenption in the fourth quartnr had com­pleted a sehool-reeord l :Hl passes in a row without an interception. 
"We had troubln gntting pros­sure on the quarterback, and if you've got gifted receivers like they do and a great supporting cast, IQuinnl is going to light you up," .Johnson said. "And lu1 did." 
Navy finished with 23«J yards on the ground, and had the ball for 31:35 to Notre Dame's 2H:35. The Irish kept the time of possession, which normally works in Navy's favor, to a min­imal advantage. 
"They control the clock," Stovall said. "We know every time we touched the ball we would have to score, and we sort of did that today. We didn't score [on] every possession, but (we scored on I the majority." 
With the loss, the Midshipmen still have to win one game to become bowl-eli­gible and the Irish kept their BCS bowl hopes alive. But for the Midshipmen, the experi­nnce of playing the Irish is one to n~mmnber regardless of the results. 
"All our guys look forward to this game, in essence, because it's a totally different kind of loppmwntl," .Johnson said. "We have a lot of guys who aren't rncruited who eonw to Navy to have a chance to play Division­( football. And it's a charH~e for them to match up against guys who wern Parade lligh School All-Americans and th1~ guys who were morn highly rncruit­ed and sought af'tnr. I'm sure a lot of them grow up thinking they can play at Notn~ DamP." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegardcn at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
player of the game 
Brady Quinn 

Notre IJame:c; quarterback threw four touchdown passes, broke more records and countered Navy:., r~ffense with a balanced. clock-controlling attack 
stat of the game 
221. 

Number ofIrish rushing yards on 39 carries; good for a s.7-yard average and 8I .4 yards more than Notre Dame:., previous az:erage 
play of the game 
Corey Mays' fumble recovery 
The senior linebacker pounced on a fumbled option pitch and set up a second-quarter Irish touchdown drive that broke the game open to a 2 I -7 Notre Dame lead. 
quote of the game 
"We knew coming in that they were a good offensive jootball team. I sau• nothing today to change my mind. " 
Paul Johnson Navy head coach 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 14, 2005 
report card 

B+ B+ 
A A B 
A 
8­A-
quarterbacks: Despite throwing four touchdown passes and directing a balanced offense, Quinn threw an interception and missed a few open receivers late. 
running backs: Walker, Thomas and Schwapp combined to for a solid Irish rushing performances. The backs made things easier on Quinn with a 
5.7 yards-per-carry average. 
receivers: Fasano opened the field for Quinn, and Samardzija and Stovall posed obvious mismatches for Navy's smaller cornerbacks. Whenever the run game stalled, the pass still worked. 
offensive line: Quite simply, Navy coach 
Paul Johnson said the line's protection of Quinn was the defining factor in 
Notre Dame's offensive success on Saturday against a smaller defense. 
defensive line: Landri, Laws and 
Beidatsch stopped up the interior 
runs well, but Notre Dame's defensive ends did not deter the Midshipmen option attack from bouncing outside. 
linebackers: Mays had a team-leading 14 
tackles, Boyte had nine and Crum, Jr. 
had seven. The linebackers held their own, and Mays' second-quarter fumble 
recovery was a major turning point. 
defensive backs: Zbikowski had an interception. Navy only threw the ball 10 times, but the strong safety and Ndukwe still let receivers get behind them on deep routes. 
special teams: David Bruton made two 
big hits on returns. D.J. Fitzpatrick 
had solid distance on his kickoffs. But 
sloppy returns, coverage and snaps 
had Weis frustrated Sunday. 
coaching: Weis stayed on his players all 
week to prevent a letdown Saturday. He 
countered Navy's rushing attack with This past Wednesday, a few coaches one ofhis own to win his third straight and defensive players entered thegame at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Guglielmino Center's auditorium for 
weekly interviews. It was all part of 3.44 overall: Notre Dame did not play the routine, as it had been set up toperfectly, but the game was never be, but with onein doubt after Mays' recovery. The small change. 
Irish did not underestimate Navy The players despite being heavily favored. 
found seats almost 
as quickly as they 
had entered the 
room. A few, 
including tackles 
Derek Landri and 
Brian Beidatsch, 


appeared visibly Pat Leonard 
more drained than 

adding up 
the numbers 
after a normal Sports Writer 
5 
practice. Both 

players admitted fatigue.
Penalties committed by Notre Dame (four) 
And the point was hammered home
and Navy (one) combined in Saturday's 
after Saturday's game -coach
game. 
Charlie Weis worked his team into the ground, all week, for a game against
Irish punt attempts Saturday. In nine possessions,
0 
Navy. The Irish were favored heavily 
Notre Dame scored six touchdowns, threw one 
going into the contest. Weis didn't
interception, turned over once on downs and ended 
care.
the game with the ball. 

Most likely the last thing Landri or Beidatsch wanted to do after a gruel­
Maurice Stovall touchdown catches 
ing Wednesday practice was put on a
Saturday. He has nine on the season, 
green polo shirt and sit in an auditori­
3

second only to Jeff Samardzija (12). 
um for 25 minutes. Weis doesn't care. But Weis does care about honoring his opponent's alma mater. He does 
27.5 Brady Quinn's touchdown-to-interception 
care about doing the right thing and
ratio after throwing four and one, respec­
respecting an Academy, about loving
• lively, against the Midshipmen. 
8 
his family -about all of the things he should care about. 
And more so than ever on Saturday,
Notre Dame third-down conversions in 12 attempts. 
the Notre Dame football team showed
The Irish were 1-for-2 on fourth-down conversions it has become a mirror image of its first-year coach with only one excep­tion: Weis never admits to being tired. 
in the contest. 
Notre Dame dominated Navy on the
44 
Approximate yards below average that Navy 
field and stood together with them
gained against Notre Dame rushing Saturday. 
afterwards. Forty-two points is not 
running up the score, but it leaves no 
room for doubt, either. And that has 
Navy gained 239 and previously averaged 282.6. 
The last season Notre Dame had 
become the pattern Weis demands of 
seven wins. 
2002 
his team -be courteous, be respect­ful, now go out there and ... From all accounts, including Weis' 
Notre Dame's rankings in the updated AP 
own, the next comments aren't for 
and Coaches polls, respectively. Virginia 
everyone's ears.

6/7 
Tech is No.6 in the Coaches by three points. 
"I might have had a couple of choice words somewhere in the pre-game when we got in the locker room to encourage them to come out fairly hyped," he said with a smirk on Saturday. 
He used the word "encourage" almost sarcastically, as if to imply how harsh he can actually be. Then he explained his game week preparation tactics further, calling to memory his pre­
season promise of a As ofSaturday at 4:19 Navy coach Paul "nasty" football team. p.m., Weis was Johnson said follow­"You never let [your ing the game.
continuing to earn a
players] think that Notre Dame's 
paycheck and validate
you're happy, opponents are because if they think a contract extension by beginning to realize that you're happy what is happening
remembering the two 
then they start to with the Irish 
most important goals of
loosen up a little bit," offense, with the Weis said. "You just a Notre Dame football Irish program. And stay on them, you just they know they have
team -to win, and to 
keep your foot on to play their best to
be respectful while 

their throat the whole compete, because time. It was not a doing it. the Irish will, too. 
line" to play for him.) 
The brashness of a family man con­tradicts itself. To most, a throat-step­ping football bully clashes directly with a smiling, friendly father. 
But push aside the language Weis uses to motivate his team from week to week, and all that remains is a frustrated opposing coach. 
"Anytime we did­
n't score, it was big," 

good week for them." 
Is this the same Weis who voluntarily stood straight for the Navy alma mater and made his team do the same? 
"He was making his paycheck this week, let's say that," linebacker Corey Mays said. 
As of Saturday at 4:19p.m., Weis was continuing to earn a paycheck and validate a contract extension by remembering the two most important goals of a Notre Dame football team -to win, and to be respectful while doing it. 
And from past experience, Weis has learned not only what those goals should be but how he should foster and implement them. 
Like New England Patriots head coach Bill Belichick, Weis has assumed complete control of the pro­gram and adopted an all-through-me policy, in which any request or ques­tion of the football program is approved or rejected by Weis himself. 
Like Dallas Cowboys head coach Bill Parcells, Weis is not afraid to tell you how good he is. (Last week, he said quarterback recruits should "get in And with all of the 
intimidation tactics, whether it be "encouraging" players with unique methods or storming through a tunnel to open a game, Notre Dame under Charlie Weis has begun to ereate an identity. 
Following Saturday's game, Weis began conducting a nationally tele­vised interview when he all of sudden cut an answer abruptly short and trot­ted with his team to the South end zone. The Navy alma mater played, the Midshipmen singing and mouthing the words softly, and the entire Stadium became still. 
"I would have done that whether we won or lost," Weis said afterward. "We were going over there." 
That's because Charlie Weis does things the way he knows how and the way he wants. And whatever reper­cussions that attitude brings in the future -positive or negative -for right now, it's working. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd. edu 
Running game is back at right time 
Darius Walker leads the Irish with 118 yards on the ground, scoring a second-quarter TO 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN A"ociate Sports Editor 
Notro Danw relied on quarterha<:k Brady Quinn's arm for two <:onsncutivn ganws against Brigham Young and Tonnnss1w. But in Saturday's 42-21 win against Navy, tho Irish rnnstab­lislwd a running gamn that had bonn quiPt in tlw tl'am's two previous victo­riPs. 
Darius WalkPr lnd the Irish with his l'il'th I 00-yard ganw of thn seas011, rushing I1J Limns for I IS yards and a touchdown. Travis Thomas addnd 51-1 yards and a touchdown on 1 I earrins. 
"Wn wantnd to play morn of a ball r.ontrol game," Irish eoaeh Charlin W11is said. "You gnt towards tlw nnd of llw ynar and you don't know what thn wPat.lwr is going to be, you just ean't count on going out then~ slinging it on PVI~ry play. Wn wanted to try to havn somn balanen out thorn, to run it a lit­tin bit morn than we worn throwing it and I think wn ran it fairly nf'fkiently." 
NotrP Damn ran the ball :{'J limns for 221 yards. The Irish time of possession was 21-1:25 -only the seeond limn all snason that an opposing team has con­trollnd tho dock against Notrn Damn. 
<)uinn know it would be important to nstablish thn running gamn narly. Notrn Damn nnnded to knnp the ball on ol'fnnsn to make sure its defense was frnsh against Navy's option attack. 
"Wn know that whenever they got thn ball thny wern going to eat up a ton of thn clock," Quinn said. "Our dnfnnsn was going to be out there for a good amount of time. So now when we got our thorn we nned to score and be nl'lkinnt but also kind of having simi­lar long drivns." 
Thnsn long drives also made the quartnrbaek's life a bit easier. Quinn, who has 27 touehdowns and 11vn intnr­cnptions this snason, enjoyed watching thn running garnn elick. 
"Any limn you have a balanen likn that and have the running game going for you, it allows you to relax and sit back and watch Darius and Travis," Quinn said. "It's kind of fun for me." 
Much of tho success of the Irish run­ning game rests on the shoulders of the oiTnnsive linn that controlled the urHinrsiznd Navy line throughout the ganw. 

"We knew we wanted to run the ball games of the season. because a lot of teams, future oppo­"We want to have a two-headed nents, may say they can't run the offense, you want to run and you want ball," Irish offensive tackle Hyan to pass," Thomas said. "I think any-
Harris said. "We came out today and showed that we can run the ball if the game plan asks for it." 
The Irish coaching staff has shown an abili­ty to adapt their offense to the weaknesses of the opposition all season. Because Navy was allowing Notre Dame to run the ball -unlike BYU or Tennessee -the Irish took advantage of it. 

,----------------­
Monday, November 14, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
•

scoring summary 
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total Navy 7 0 7 7 21 Notre Dame 7 21 7 7 42 
First quarter 

Notre Dame 7, Navy 0 Maurice Stovall 31·yard reception from Brady Quinn with 10:31 remaining (D.J. Fitzpatrick kick). 
Drive: 8 plays, 73 yards, 4:29 elapsed 
Notre llanw 7, Navy 7 Adam Ballard 9-yard run with 2:46 remaining (Joey Bullen kick). Drive: 16 plays, 68 yards, 7:45 elapsed 
Seeond qunrter 
Notre Dame 14, Navy 7 Travis Thomas 12-yard run with 5:29 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick). Drive: 10 plays, 71 yards, 3:08 elapsed. 
NotJ·p Dame 21, Navy 7 Darius Walker 13-yard run with 2:08 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick). Drive: 3 plays, 49 yards, 0:21 elapsed. 
NotrP Dame 2H, Navy 7 Anthony Fasano B-yard pass from Quinn with 
0:40 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick). Drive: 6 plays, 48 yards, 0:55 elapsed. 
Third quarter 

Nott·e Dame 2H, Navy 14 Lamar Owens 1-yard run with 8:48 remaining (Bullen kick). Drive: 12 plays, 80 yards, 6:12 elapsed 
Notre Dame 35, Navy 14 Stovall16-yard pass from Quinn with 3:33 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick). Drive: 11 plays, 82 yards, 5:15 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 

Notrn Dame 42, Navy 14 Stovall1 0-yard pass from Quinn with 6:48 remaining (Fitzpatrick Kick). Drive: 11 plays, 57 yards, 4:44 elapsed 
Notre Dame 42, Navy 21 Tyree Barnes 17-yard pass from Brian Hampton with 3:33 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick). Drive: 13 plays, 78 yards, 5:31 elapsed. 
-

statistics 
total yards 


rushing yards 

passing yards 

75 

"We wanted to have some balance out there, to run it a little bit more than we were throwing it and I think we ran it fairly efficiently." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

The 221 yards rushing were 81 yards better than Notre Dame's 139.6 yards per game season average head­ing into the game. Thomas spoke about the importance of having a game like this going into the last few time we can do both of that, defenses are going to be nervous coming into the game." 
The last few games have been productive for Thomas. The junior has moved up on the depth chart to the point where he is now the power running back playing behind Walker. 
"Something that I set as a goal for myself this year was to become a key player on offense," 
Thomas said. "It makes me feel good that I'm doing well and I've made myself a player that the team can count on." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
return yards 

Quinn continues to break Irish records 
0 
• ,:• • 
159 

time of possession
records. Samardzija did not score a Zbikowski was the special
Irish quarterback has 
Quinn also moved into first touehdown. lie was thrown teams eaptain, named such 53 career passing place on the single-season to in the end zone, but the during the week after passing yardage list, with pass was broken up. returning a punt and an TOs, passes Powlus 2,931, surpassing Jarious Coming into this season, interception for a touch­
• 

Jackson's 1999 record. he hadn't caught a toueh­down against Tennessee By HEATHER "lie was kinda quiet today, down pass, but had at least Nov. 5. 
:I!J 

VAN HOEGARDEN and he still had four touch­one in each game this sea­Notre Dame won the toss ~ . 
Sports Writer downs," tight end Anthony son, good for 12 on the year, and eleeted to receive. The 39-221 rushes-yards 58-239 Fasano said of Quinn. "He until Saturday's game. Irish then scored on the first 22-31-1 comp-att-int 4-10-1 continues to do a great job He finished with five possession of the game. 0-0.0 punts-yards 2-38.5 
Friday night at the pep and put us in great situa­eatches for 42 yards on the 
0-0 fumbles-lost 2-1 
rally, formnr Notre Dame tions." day. Honoring their opponents 
4-35 penalties-yards 1-4 
quarterbaek Hon Powlus -Quinn had time to throw After the game, the Irish 
29 21
first downs 
now thn director of player all day, as he was not Hoskins gets back on the went to the Navy side of the personnnl dnvelopment for sacked. field Stadium and stood in rever­
passing
the Irish -joked about "For the most part he Sophomore running baek enee of the Naval Academy 
Quinn 22-31-1 Owens 3-7·0
Brady Quinn breaking his could just stand back there Justin Hoskins saw action on alma mater. Weis said he records. and wait for somebody to Saturday for the first time talked to Navy head coaeh rushing Saturday against Navy, come open," Irish head since Notre Dame played Paul Johnson before the 
Walker 19-118 Owens 26-62
Quinn did just that. coaeh Charlie Weis said. Purdue on Oct. 1. game and asked if it was all 
Thomas, T. 11-58 Whittaker 7-50 
With his four touchdown "Not every throw was timed lie returned one kickoff right for Notre Dame to 
reeniving
pass1~s. ()uinn moved his ... one time he went ofT to for 13 yards and carried the stand as a team as a sign of earnnr total to 53 touch­his fifth receiver. You usual­ball twice for a loss of one respect for the Midshipmen. Stovall 8·130 Campbell 1-34 downs, onn ahead of Powlus. ly don't have time to get yard. "That's out of respeet for Fasano 4-70 Barnes 1-17 lin has 27 touehdowns and through the whole progres­those guys," Weis said. 
Samardzija 5-42 Yokilis 1-14 livn int1~renptions in his jun­sion." Gameday captains "They stand for a lot more tackling ior season. Quinn was the offensive than just eollege football 
Hoyle 14 Caldwell 14
"It's sornnthing whnrn I'm Samardzlja finally doesn't captain and Brandon Boyte players." 
Crum 9 Biles 11
really not going to focus on find the end zone was thn defensive captain 
Landrl 7 Little 8 
and look at it until I'm donn For the first time this sea­for the Irish, as they have Contact Heather Van Hoegarden 7 Price 6 111~ n~ , " Q u i n n said of h is son, Irish wide receiver Jeff bnnn all year. Tom at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 14, 2005 


Navy -blues 
With BCS implications and a 41-game winning streak against Navy on the line, the Irish defeated the Midshipmen 
42-21 thanks to three second-quarter touchdowns. Notre Dame returned to a run-first offense after quarterback 
Brady Quinn carried the load against BYU and Tennessee, as the Irish rushed the ball 39 times for 221 yards. Darius 
Walker led the Irish with 19 carries for 118 yards and a touchdown. Travis Thomas had 11 carries for 56 yards and 
a score. By solidifying the run game, Quinn was able to explode for four touchdown passes-three of which went to 
Maurice Stovall-and pushed his season total to 27. With the four touchdowns, the Irish quarterback passed Ron 
Powlus for first place on the career-touchdown passes list at Notre Dame. Stovall finished with eight catches for 130 
yards. Navy ran its option offense against Notre Dame, racking up lengthy drives and keeping the time of possession 
in its favor. The Midshipmen ran 68 total plays, 58 of which were runs. At the end of the game, Notre Dame honored 
the Naval Academy by walking to their section in the stands and listening to the Navy alma mater. 

CLAIRE KELLEY!The Observer 



Top left, Irish safety Tom Zbikowski runs up field. Top right, running back Travis Thomas is tackled. Middle top, Derek Landri pursues Navy quarterback Lamar Owens. Middle bottom, Corey Mays celebrates the victory. Bottom right, Brady Quinn runs out of bounds on the Notre Dame sideline. Bottom left, fullback Asaph Shwapp runs past a defender. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, November 14, 2005 
page 15 
the ballroom 
for a concert 15 years in the making 

hand of their level of prestige. The nncorn snt was four covers by artists from Nnw Zealand to Ireland. The lirst song was a solo elndric rendition of "Dirty Old Town," an Irish folk tune orig­inally by legnndary Irish songwriter l:wan MacColl that Leo also performed on his solo El' "Tell Balgeary, Balgury Is I>nad." 
J.nrnnr and Wilson returned to the stage to assist in a cover of Split Enz's "Six Months in a Leaky Boat," another song featured on "Tell Balgeary, Balgury Is Dnad" and also inducted on another EP titled "Sharkbite Sessions." The band raised the intensity with another cover, StilT Little Fingers punk masterpiece "Suspect Device," the highlight of "Sharkbite Sessions" and perhaps the most energetic song of the evening. 
Leo concluded the show with a soft and dark cover of Richard Thompson's "Beat the Hetreat." The melancholy gui­tar and vocals echoed in the LaFortune Ballroom as the audience stood in silence, realizing that this was the end of a milestone evening. 
Contact Joe Lattal at jlattal@nd.edu 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Elegance and fury 
Piano virtuoso Krystian Zimerman gives varied, emotional performance that reveals musical talent 
The Sonata was, in a word, magnifi·By ANALISE LIPARI 
cent. The four separate movements 
Scene Wrirer 

were distinct but thematically con­
-

nected, and the final moments wnre 
Pianist Krystian Zimerman's per­dramatic and exhilarating. It was in formance at the De Bartolo this final piece that Zimerman's talnnt Performing Arts Center Wednesday exhibited at full force, with increasing night featured a fascinating array of speed and intricacy proving no obsta­elegance and fury in his selected cle for the pianist. pieces. His concert was a relief for ''I've played the piano for II years, any midweek boredom, showcasing and I have heard a lot of amazing his impressive skill and sophisticated people play, but nothing to comparn selection of pieces. to Zimerman," frnshman Emily Doll 
Zimerman opened with Beethoven's said. "What can I not say about him'! Sonata in C minor, "PathCtique." The lie was spnetacular." spend and strength of the opening llistorically, Zinwrman travnls with movement grabbed the attention of his own piano, and his familiarity the audience, and Zimerman's subtle with tlw instrumnnt is apparnnt in his skill as a pianist was apparent in the inherent ability to play. The crisp sim­intricacy of each note. plicity of his performancn ­
The first half of the performance Zimnrman alone with his instrument continued with "Valses Nobles nt -lent to the focus of the evnning to Sentimentales" by French composer the music itsnlf. Maurice Havel. Here the pace of the "IThisl allows him to eliminate, or concert slowed dramatically, which reduce to the absolute minimum, had a calming effect on the audience. everything that might distraet him The linal piece prior to intermission, from purely musical issues," his of'li­"Ballade" by Frederic Chopin, cial biography statns. cemented that tone of tranquility. Regrettably, thn average agn of thn 
The Chopin pieces in particular dis­concertgonrs was somewhat above played Zimerman's mind-blowing that of a typical college student. artistry and deftness at playing this Perhaps due to the nature of' the most classic of instruments. With music selection or the weeknight each increasingly complex piece, scheduling of the concert, the absence Zimerman's hands flew more and of a significant number of students more wildly over the keys of his was notieeabln. piano. It was truly remarkable to "I think it's a shame that such a behold. world-rnnowned pianist didn't recnive 
The second half of the concert a larger turnout from thn student opened with two Mazurkas by Chopin. body," freshman Laura Benea said. A Mazurka is a traditional Polish folk Attracting students to such "high-art" dance, and the playing of this type of type concerts is undoubtedly dinicult, lesser-known piece was a creative however, and Zimerman fortunately introduction to Zimerman's home cul­did not suiTor for it during his per­ture for the audience. The Mazurkas formance. were less energetic than was proba­An impressive dedication to his bly needed, however, after the tone of craft lends Zimerman to deservnd the previous two pieces. The contin­praise, and the fo.ur encores he ued subdued mood of the concert lost received Wednesday night proved this the attention of the audience, and it point apparent. took the concert's final piece, Chopin's third Sonata, to bring the energy level back up. Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts Krystian Zimerman performed a variety of classical pieces that showcased his musical prowess. He often brings his own plano to concerts for consistency. 

,---­
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, November 14, 2005 
NBA 
Frye helps Knicks boil Kings, grab first win 
Cleveland's James becomes youngest player in league history with 4,000 points 
Associated Press "We were very resilient, and we played with a lot of heart," 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. Marbury said. Though Larry Brown knew his "It's just one game, but win­first win with the New York ning that first game after we Knicks would come eventually, lost the last five, that's tough to he was a bit surprised to pick it do. Coach was happy we won, up in what used to be one of the and we were happy to win for NBA's most intimidating road him. He deserved it." arenas. New York reached season 
Brown won for the first time highs with 105 points, 41 field 
-
in six games as New York's goals, 22 assists 15 steals, in coach, with rookie Channing addition to its sharp shooting. Frye scoring 19 points in a 105-Peja Stojakovic scored 14 of 95 win over the floundering his 31 points in the fourth quar­Sacramento Kings on Sunday ter, but missed seven 3-pointers night. for the Kings, whose 2-5 start 
Stephon Marbury had 17 has caused discontent in Arco points and seven assists for the Arena's nightly sellout crowds. Knicks, who jumped to a big Sacramento is off to its worst early lead and hung on late to start since 1997 -the year halt their worst start in 18 years before coach Rick Adelman took during Brown's first season in over the club. charge of his hometown team. 
Historically, Brown hasn't put Denver 102, Minnesota 91 great trust in young players, but DerMarr Johnson scored 17 his youthful Knicks might win points in his first start of the him over eventually -particu­season and Marcus Camby had larly if they keep playing this 18 points, 22 rebounds and way. Frye had 13 points in the seven blocked shots to help the first half, and Jamal Crawford Denver Nuggets to a victory over and Eddy Curry later added 16 the Minnesota Timberwolves on points apiece as New York never Sunday night. trailed while snapping an eight­Carmelo Anthony matched his game losing streak in season high with 23 points for league-worst, 16-percent accu­around him when it happened is Houston Rockets on Sunday Sacramento. the Nuggets, who played with­racy from 3-point range. a tremendous feeling." night. 

Brown ascribed no special sig­out Kenyon Martin while the All that worked. Johnson James (20 years, 318 days) LaFrentz, who had his 2003­nificance to the win, but his starting forward rested his ten­made two of Denver's seven 3-entered the game needing 10 04 season cut short following players knew it meant some­der left knee, still hurting after pointers to bring the team total points to pass Kobe Bryant (21 right knee surgery in December thing. offseason surgery. to 19 this season. And with years, 216 days). 2003, matched his career high 
"It feels good. I always feel Wally Szczerbiak led the Anthony's outside shot working, After scoring on a jumper, two for points, added eight rebounds good after a team tries hard," T'Wolves with 20 points. Kevin the Nuggets moved the ball well driving layups and a dunk, and finished 7 -for-9 on 3-point said Brown, the only head coach Garnett had 19 points and nine and shot 48 percent. James reachod the milestone on attempts. to win championships in the rebounds, but Minnesota fell a 21-footer with 58.7 seconds "If I'm healthy, I know I can NBA and NCAA. behind by double digits late in Cleveland 108, Orlando 100 left in the first quarter. shoot the ball," he said. "If you 
"We had a lot of guys con­the third quarter and never got LeBron James made history. "I don't let individual statistics don't have your legs, you can't tribute. To win one on the road closer. Donyell Marshall helped make make me unfocused or more shoot the ball." against a pretty good team is a Camby was his usual domi­sure it came in a victory. focused," James said. "I just LaFrentz admitted that he good feeling .... People don't win nant self. He recorded his fifth James became the youngest came out and tried to attack wasn't confident last season. in this building much, so it feels double-double in seven games player in NBA history to reach early, and get us a big lead. We "Anytime you go through an good." this season. His 22 rebounds 4,000 career points and finished were able to take it into over­injury, that takes away some 
Brown's club won by making were two short of a career high with 26 to help the Cleveland time and get a win." confidence you have in your 54 percent of its shots -and and fell only eight short of Cavaliers beat the Orlando ability and in yourself," he said. finding an opponent with even Minnesota's entire total. Magic in overtime on Sunday Boston 102, Houston 82 The 6-foot-11 center thrives worse late-game execution. The Nuggets coach George Karl night. Raef LaFrentz feels healthy, when the team is moving the Knicks wasted second-half leads put Johnson in the lineup in "Unbelievable," Cleveland and it showed. ball around. in both of their last two games, place of Voshon Lenard, hoping coach Mike Brown said. "That LaFrentz was 7 -for-7 from 3-"One of the things we've and blew most of a 19-point to restore some movement in an kid is a talent. It couldn't hap­point range in the first half and always said: 'if Raef gets a lot of lead in Sacramento, but hung on offense that had become stag­pen to a better person. He's a scored 27 of his 32 points in the attempts, that means the ball is when the Kings couldn't capital­nant during the team's 2-4 start great person, great leader and I opening 24 minutes to lead the moving extremely well'," Boston ize on several chances to rally. and maybe improve on Denver's enjoy being around him. To be Boston Celtics to a win over the coach Doc Rivers said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 r.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
CHRISTMAS HELP NOW! $12.25 base/appt. Flexible schedules around classes, customer sales & service, conditions apply, all ages 17 & older. Call Now! 574-273­3835. 
Caring, organized individuals need­ed to place exchange students in local schools and host families. Earn a per-student stipend and pas­sible travel to Europe. 888-266­2921 or sumckeen@ie-usa.com 
Fashion Designer seeks ND Rep. 
Hed;thandba~js.com 206-226-6003 
FoR RENT 
YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart­
ments available for 06-07 school 
year. Call today 235-7234. 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­ROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 
Area Houses and Apartments for rent. Log on to MichianaRentals.com Call574-993­RENT (7368). 
House for rent. 3 BR, 1 BA, 2 Car Gar. Clay Area. $700/mo. 574-210­8308. 
KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07 SCHOOL YEAR. CLOSE TO CAM­PUS. 4 BEDROOMS, UPTO 10 BEDROOMS. CALL 315-5032 ASK FOR KRAMER. 
GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS 06/07 & 07/08 andersonNDrentals.com 574-233-9947 
3-6 bdrm homes for 06/07. Also avail. now. 57 4-329-0308. 
For rent: Two story house com­pletely remodeled 2003. Ready for immediate occupancy or next semester or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sen­sor light for security. Four individu­ally locked bedrooms, central sta­lion monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student housing, Laundromat next door, basement available for storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc.,new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4071. 
2 bdrm,furn house, sleeps 5. Week/weekend (2 day min.) New Carlisle area (574)514-1669. 

123 ND Ave. 3 bdrm, 1.5 bath. 
Call574-229-0149. 

908 SB Ave: Roomy 6-7 bdrm home 4 blocks to ND. 2 baths, w/d, broadband internet incl. Avail. 06-07 & 07-08 school year. 327 Hill St: NEED A HOME TODAY? NEED A SECOND CHANCE? Very nice 3 bdrm home. Close to ND & Corbys. Broadband internet option. W/D & alarm system avail. Move in today. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 or email JCrimmins@ myLandGrant.com 
HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 bdrms includes all utilities, local phone,washer/dryer,security sys-tern. $400/student. 574-315-2509 ndstudentrentals.com 2006 SPRING SEMESTER NOW AVAILABLE. 
Spring sem -Sr. seeks 2 house­mates. 574-309-3105 
4-student house 06-07. Walk to ND. Air,laundry, ADT security. 574-287-4961. 
TICKETS 
WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB­SITE FOR$$: www. victorytickets.com 
BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT­BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911. 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. 

SPRING BREAK-Early Booking Specials-FREE Meals & Drinks ­$50 Deposit-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 Days from $299! Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica From $499! Campus Reps Needed! PromoCode:31 www.springbreak­travel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Ward drops back to pass ... throws toward the goal. ..and it's knocked down by Wooden! The game is over! The Irish have upset Florida State! 31-24! Notre Dame is Number One! ... NDBA Forever 
MacB cast and crew: Congrats on a sold-out run! Enjoy your free nights now that your 'hour upon the stage' is done.-Nicole 
His pants aren't square ... 
they're more rectangular. 
r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--------~ 


OUND THE NATION 
Monday, November 14, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL
A.P. Football Top 25 

lt'am rerord points 
1 usc 10·0 1,616 2 Texas 10·0 1,569 3 Miami 8-1 1.483 4 LSU 8·1 1.418 5 Penn Stale 9-1 1,334 6 NOTRE DAME 7-2 1,246 7 Virginia Tech 8·1 1.214 8 Alabama 9·1 1,176 9 Ohio State 8·2 1,163 10 Oregon 9·1 1,022 11 Auburn 8-2 963 
-

12 UCLA 9·1 876 13 West Virginia 8-1 837 14 Georgia 7-2 780 15 TCU 10·1 719 16 Fresno Stale 8-1 632 17 Michigan 7·3 607 18 Louisville 7·2 486 19 South Carolina 7-3 402 20 Florida 7-3 325 21 Texas Tech 8·2 319 22 Florida State 7-3 173 23 Boston College 7·3 154 24 UTEP 8·1 124 25 Wisconsin 8·3 104 
ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team record· points 
1 usc 10·0 1,543 2 Texas 10·0 1,495 3 Miami 8·1 1,421 4 LSU 8·1 1,363 5 Penn Slate 9·1 1,251 6 Virginia Tech 8·1 . 1,168 7 NOTRE DAME 7-2 1,165 8 Alabama 9·1 1,088 9 Ohio Stale 8-2 1,068 10 Oregon 9·1 1,001 11 UCLA 9-1 890 12 Auburn 8·2 872 13 West VIrginia 8·1 842 14 Georgia 7·2 763 
Associated Press into the AP rankings. Miami was No. 3, fol­Notre Dame was No. 6
15 TCU 10·1 672 
"That was one of the goals, lowed by LSU and Penn and Virginia Tech was sev­
16 Fresno State 8·1 557 
Columbia, S.C. --Steve for the team to finish the State. Each has one loss."I enth. The Crimson Tide
17 Michigan 7·3 495 
Spurrier has South regular season ranked." think Miami's clearly play­dropped four spots to No.
18 louisville 7-2 445 
Carolina in the Top 25. No. 1 Southern California ing the best of the three," 8, and Ohio State and
19 Texas Tech 8·2 382 
The Gamecocks made it and No. 2 Texas remained said Neill Ostrout, of the Oregon completed the top
20 Florida 7-3 322 
to No. 19 in The at the top of the poll, as Connecticut Post. "I've had 10. Auburn moved up four
21 South Carolina 7-3 252 
Associated Press media they have been since the them as top one-loss team spots to No. 11 with a 31­
22 Florida State 7·3 236 
poll Sunday, the first time preseason. for several weeks." 30 victory over Georgia.
23 Boston College 7·3 216 24 Wisconsin 8·3 147 they have been in the USC received 56 first­Ostrout said he moved UCLA was 12th and West 25 UTEP 8·1 142 rankings under their new place votes and extended LSU past Penn State this Virginia was No. 13. coach. its record stay at No. 1 to week, but said the Nittany Georgia dropped live spots South Carolina (7-3) 30 straight poll. Texas Lions and Tigers are prac­to No. 14. ended a 14-game losing received the remaining tically a tossup. No. 15 TCU, tlw
Men's Hockey Top 20 
streak to Spurrier's old nine first-place votes. The USA Today coaches' Mountain West Conference 
team record points school on Saturday, beat­With Alabama losing to poll had the same top five champion, finished its sea­1 Colorado College 9·1·0 798 ing Florida 30-22 in LSU 16-13 in overtime on as the AP Top 25. In the son 10-1 with a 51-3 victo­2 Michigan 7+1 740 Columbia, S.C. Saturday, the Trojans and Harris Interactive poll, the ry over UNLV. Fresno 3 Cornell 3+0 678 "Well, that's wonderful," Longhorns are major col­top 12 teams occupied the State, leading the Western 4 Maine 8·2·0 664 Spurrier said Sunday when lege football's only unbeat­same spots they did in the Athletic Conference, was 5 Wisconsin 6+1 631 told the Gamecocks broke en teams. AP poll. No. 16. 6 Michigan State 5·1-1 608 7 Denver 5·3·0 514 8 Boston College 3·2·1 465 9 Vermont 7-1·0 464 IN BRIEF 10 North Dakota 5·4·1 382 11 Miami 5·1·0 376 James reaches scoring mile­attempt. The 21-year-old Kim then the back nine. But Kim birdied Nos. 12 Minnesota 3·3·2 356 stone celebrated with a hug from father­11 and 12 to gain a share of the lead. 13 New Hampshire 4·3·1 355 OHLANDO, Fla. --LeBron James caddie Man Kim and a beer shower Huston and Perry win 14 Boston University 3·2·0 244 b1~came the youngest player in NBA from fellow player Jennifer Hosales. Franklin Templeton Sliootout 
15 Alaska-Fairbanks 4·2-2 225 NAPLES, Fla. -­
history to reach 4,000 career points "I have been struggling since the Kenny Perry and 
16 St. Lawrence 6·2·0 166 
Sunday night in Cleveland's game Solheim and to know that I could John Huston won the Franklin 
17 Colgate 5·1·1 152 
against Orlando. come out there and be a champion of Templeton Shootout on Sunday, com­
18 Bemidji State 5·1·0 129 
James (20 years, 318 days) entered champions, it's an incredible feeling," bining for a 13-under 59 in the
19 Northern Michigan 5·3·0 
129 needing 1 0 points pass Kobe Bryant Kim said. "All of the girls here know scramble format for a one-stroke vie­
20 Ouinnipiac 8·2·0 92 
(21 years, 216 days). James reached how to win and to win this event is tory over Fred Couples and Adam the milestone on a 21-foot jumper just unbelievable." Scott. with 58.7 seconds left in the first Kim finished with a 15-under 273 Perry and Huston, who each quarter. total on the Magnolia Grove Golf earned $315,000, had a ;{0-under Earlier in the period, James scored Club's Crossings Course and earned 186 total on the Tiburon Golf Club twice on driving layups and also had $138,000. She also won the 2004 course. They opened tlw event with a
around the dial 
a dunk. Longs Drugs Challenge. 64 in modified alternate shot and Kim wins LPGA Tournament Hetherington shot a 68 en route to had a 63 on Saturday in the best-ball of Champions the eighth runner-up finish of her round. 
MOBILE, Ala. -U.S. Solheim Cup career. She won the last of her eight Couples and Scott linished with a
NBA 

star Christina Kim won her second LPGA Tour titles in 2003. 62. Chicago at Golden State 10:30 p.m., career title Sunday, closing with a S­Sweden's Liselotte Neumann, the Mark O'Meara and Nick Price (60) 
NBATV under 67 for a one-stroke victory 1996 winner, closed with a 71 to fin­were third at 27 under. Tournament over Australia's Rachel I letherington ish third at 12 under. Hall of Farner host Greg Norman, playing a month in the Mitchell Company LPGA Juli Inkster (69) followed at 11 under. after minor knee surgery, and Steve
NFL 

Tournament of Champions. Neumann, who started the final Elkington shot a 17-under 55 to lin­
Dallas at Philadelphia 9:00p.m., ABC 
Kim two-putted from 80 feet on the round with a one-shot edge, made a ish fourth at 26 under. They birdied final hole, tapping in for par after 7 -foot eagle putt on the fourth hole every hole but two and eagled No. Hetherington missed a 20-foot birdie and took a two-stroke advantage into 17. 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, November 14, 2005 
NFL 

Steelers overcome injuries to knock out Browns 
Portis' 144 rushing yards aren't enough as Tampa Bay outscores Washington 
PITTSBURGH -For many the play off before they can sub­NFL teams, all these quarter­stitute on defense," Batch said. back injuries might ruin a sea­Batch was hurt when his son. The Pittsburgh Steelers hand struck a Browns player's simply plug in another player helmet on a followthrough dur­and keep winning. ing the second quarter but 
Charlie Batch improvised a 1-stayed in to direct that 40-yard yard touchdown run late in the touchdown drive, which was set second quarter, and his passing up by linebacker Joey Porter's led to another score before he interception of a deflected Trent left with a broken right hand. Dilfer pass. 
-
The Steelers withstood their 

second QB injury in three weeks Indianapolis 31, Houston 17 
to beat the rival Cleveland Edgerrin James is making a Browns 34-21 Sunday night. strong case for a hefty salary 
Whatever the Steelers lack in increase next year. quarterback quality -and, The Indianapolis Colts career with a 7-2 record that ties them rushing leader was designated with Cincinnati for the AFC the team's franchise player this North lead, it's not much -season, and without a new con­they're making up for it with tract he'll become an unre­depth. Ben Roethlisberger stricted free agent. In the missed a second straight game meantime, he's one of the main with an injured knee, but their reasons the Colts are still the other three quarterbacks were NFL's only unbeaten team. just fine. "Just going out and doing my 
Tommy Maddox replaced job," James said Sunday after Batch to run an efficient and he rushed 2 6 times for 12 2 time-consuming offense in the yards and one touchdown and second half. and college QB­caught three passes for another turned-wide receiver Antwaan 26 yards in a win over Houston. Randle El threw a 51-yard scor­"If they get it to me, I'm going ing pass to Hines Ward on a to get it [yardage]. reverse early in the third quar­"I prepare myself, I train and ter to put the Steelers up 24-7. I'm ready for the stuff," James 
Randle El, an option quarter­said. "It doesn't matter when I an improbable restart of the Alstott was hit at the line and struggled the previous two back at Indiana, also lined up get the ball. I'm just trying to NFC West race was in sight. looked like he might fall short weeks after taking over for the under center and scooted for a make something out of nothing But instead of settling for the before twisting and keeping his injured Brian Griese, but played 12-yard run later in the third at times and when it's there try­25-yard kick, Vitt morphed into legs moving to barely get into with much more poise Sunday quarter, about the time the ing to take advantage of it." Martz. providing the turning the end zone. than in losses to San Francisco Browns were wondering where It was his 47th career 100-point in the Seahawks' victory. The Redskins signaled the and Carolina. all these quarterbacks were yard game -the Colts are 41-6 He had holder Dane Looker conversion failed, but the ruling Tampa Bay had seven coming from. in those games -tying him flip the ball to kicker Jeff stood after the replay official's turnovers and Simms was 
"It's really weird," Maddox with Franco Harris for the Wilkins, who was about to review. sacked 10 times in those said of a recent streak of eighth-most in NFL history. He throw to wide-open Cameron "Any time you lose, it's tough. defeats. The left-bander was injuries that also left the also topped 1,000 yards in a Cleveland at the 5. But Seattle There are always 50 plays 15-of-29 with no interceptions Steelers without star linebacker season for the fifth time, and he cornerback Marcus Trufant where you could have won and and no sacks against a Redskins James Farrior. "Sometimes you and receiver Marvin Harrison charged the kicker. Wilkins 50 plays where you could have defense minus tackle Cornelius don't need anybody. Sometimes each had 100 yards in the same aborted the pass and ran feebly lost," Washington coach Joe Grifim and safety Sean Taylor. you need to use everybody." game for an NFL-record 21st into a turnover on downs. Gibbs said. Simms threw a 4-yard TD 
Batch, 2-0 as a starter this time, breaking the previous "All of our guys thought he pass to Ike Hilliard to make it season after losing his last 10 record of 20 first set by Emmitt Tampa Bay 36, Washington 35 was on the ground. That's what 28-28 late in the third quarter. NFL starts with the Lions in Smith and Michael Irvin of With the ball sitting on the 1-everybody told me. I didn't see 2000-01, is expected to be out Dallas. yard line, Jon Gruden couldn't it, but that's what instant replay at least two games, according to Peyton Manning passed for resist. is for." coach Bill Cowher. However, 297 yards and three touch­The temptation to give it to Chris Simms threw for 279 Roethlisberger could return downs, including a 30-yard Mike Als.tott on a gutsy 2-point yards and three touchdowns, Sunday at Baltimore after miss­score to Harrison that made conversion call -even if it including a 30-yarder to Edell ing three of the Steelers' first them the only quarterback­meant going home without a Shepherd that set up the excit­nine games with injuries to both receiver tandem to top 10,000 victory-was too strong. ing finish. Joey Galloway had knees. career yards. At least that way, the Tampa seven catches for 131 yards and 
And to think some NFL teams "In this offense, it can be any­Bay coach said, he would have one TD. don't have a single quarterback body's day," Manning said. "But gone to sleep Sunday night Clinton Portis ran for 144 who can move an offense, much when you see it on film that we knowing the Buccaneers gave it yards and put Washington less four. do spread it around -Marvin, their best shot. ahead with an 8-yard scoring 
"I can still play quarterback Reggie [Wayne]. [Brandon] "It would have been tough not run midway through the fourth -I just don't have that urge I Stokley, Dallas [Clark], Edgerrin knowing what would have hap­quarter. Mark Brunell threw for had as a rookie," Randle El out of the backfield -it can put pened," Gruden said after 226 yards and two TDs, and said. "But maybe when I'm too the defense in a bind." Alstott somehow found a way Ladell Betts scored on a 94­
-
old and slow to play receiver, After punting the first time across the goal line to give the yard kickoff return for the they'll let me play quarter­they had the ball, the Colts (9-0) Bucs a stunning victory over the Redskins. back." scored on their next three pos­Washington Redskins. The Bucs (6-3) surpassed Batch, shaky the week before sessions and seemed to have The run, with 58 seconds their victory total for 2004 with in a 20-10 victory at Green Bay the game in control with a 21-0 remaining, came after the Simms winning for the first time in his first NFL start in four lead over the Texans (1-8). But Redskins blocked a potential as a pro in a game he started years, looked smooth and pol­a pair of special teams miscues game-tying extra point -but and finished. The third-year pro ished while directing the brought Houston back into the had jumped offsides in the 
r------------------,
Steelers to a 17-7 halftime lead. game. process. 
: VERA BRADLEY :
Even when he underthrew the Two short Houston punts hit For a moment, Alstott didn't 1 20% offwitb ND/SMCStu.LD. 1
ball, it worked out -Cedrick Colts blockers as they ran even realize Gruden had decid­I I Wilson shed two defenders by downfield. The Texans recov­ed to try to break a two-game 
I II]p~u~u ,
coming back for a 43-yard ered both muffs and converted losing streak in dramatic fash­
1 East Bank Emporium Re;;taunmt Bldg. 1 
reception that led to Jerome them into a touchdown and ion. I 121 S. Niles Ave., (574)232-8488
Bettis' 1-yard TD run midway field goal. "People were hollering for L------------------JI 
through the second quarter. me. I ran on the field, put on my 
Batch scored with 6 seconds Seattle 31, St. Louis 16 helmet, heard the call and left in the half, the Steelers out It was as if dice-rolling coach thought: 'Uh, oh, here we go," of timeouts and both teams Mike Martz was calling plays Alstott said. scrambling to line up after from his St. Louis-area home "You have to put the trust in Batch twice found Hines Ward Sunday. your team and the players and to put the ball on the 1. The Rams, actually under the say: 'The heck with it.' You have Running a play Steelers QBs are direction of assistant head to gamble once in a while." supposed to use in such circum­coach Joe Vitt while Martz Everybody in the stadium stances, Batch managed to line recovers from a heart virus. knew who would get the ball. up the offense and score him­were lining up for a field goal in but the Redskins (5-4) could not self before the Browns' defense the second quarter to add to a stop the 248-pound fullback, was set up. 3-0 lead against first-place who scored earlier on touch­
"That's the objective -to get Seattle. A third straight win and down runs of 2 and 1 yards. 



Monday, November 14, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Deep Belles drain Lake Mich. squad 
Saint Mary's handles. Lady Indians in final preseason scrunmage 
By TIM KAISER Spons Writer 
Saint Mary's has been prnparing for its first regular snason garno for a fnw weeks now, and judging from the Bnllns' porformance in their sncond and final scrimmage hoforo next weekend's llanovnr Tip-OfT Classic, they arn rnady. 
Tlw Bollos travnlcd to Lake Mi dt i ga n Co II e ge Fr i d a y night and dominated the l.ady Indians on tlwi r own court. 
"You improve the most between your first and see­ond games. It was good to sec everyone in the fold. We had a lot more depth, and we were a lot better." 
Bender was glad to see improvement on both sides of the ball. 
Thn coaeh also said he was impressed with his team's athletieism and how well it played together, despite the absence of Broderiek, Newsom and Bender in the first serimmage. 
"Defensively, we played so much better this game, and we had more eonfidence on offense," Bender said. "Bethel made us aware of our weaknesses, but this game was a big c 0 n f i d e n c e 
Saint Mary's builder."
"We had a lot more
built an early Just as the 
load and didn't depth, and we were team improved lot up. staying a lot better. " between its first ahead for the scrimmage and rnmaindor of the the second,
Steve Bender 

game in a 69-40 Bender hopes to 
Belles coach 

victory. see an even bet-
This was the Bnlles' first con­ventional contest of the year, after playing a three-half scrimmage against Bethel College Nov. 3. 
Saint Mary's added three nnw players last week in Benya Broderick, who returned from an injury, eross-eountry runner Erin Newsom and volleyball play­er Shelly Bonder. 
The Belles' new depth was evident, as 12 of the 13 play­ers on the rosttH scored points during the game. Alison Kessler led Saint Mary's with 13 points against thn Lady Indians. 
Bellos' eoaeh Steve Bender was thrillod with his team's performanee. 
"I was very, very happy," he said. 

ter performance 

from his team in its first regular season game when it travels to the Hanover Tip-Off Classic on Friday in Hanover, Ind. The Belles will play Hanover on Friday at 6 p.m. and Franklin on Saturday at 1 p.m. 
In the meantime, Bender believes Saint Mary's has work to do. 
"Our biggest deficiency [against Lake Michigan) was rebounding," Bender said. "We've got to get a lot more physieal on the boards. We've got to develop more of a post presence, and pick up our intensity. Hanover and Franklin are going to come at us tough." 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 
NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick fleece coat is-perfect for winter. Ask any yak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for 

wet-weather protection. Denali Jacket 
~ 
DUTPDST 
~ 
Cold Weather Experts 

3602 N. Grape Road Mishawaka, Indiana 
259·1000 

Hours: Mon. -Fri.: 1o:oo am -9:00 pmSat.: 1o:oo am -B:oo pm Sun.: :1.2:oo pm -6:oopm 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Israel leaves Irish, set to transfer 
-· 


PHIL HUDELSONfThe Observer 

Former Irish forward Omari Israel dribbles down the floor during Notre Dame's 59-40 exhibition win over Lewis on Nov. 3. Israel announced his decision to leave Notre Dame on Friday. 
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
Junior forward Omari Israel has left the Irish basketball program and has withdrawn from the University with the intent to enroll in another school, Notre Dame coach Mike Brey announced in a Friday afternoon press release and confirmed following that night's 80-53 win. 
Israel played 10 minutes in the team's first exhibition game against Lewis and fin­ished with two points and four rebounds. The 6-foot-9, 235­pound forward averaged 1.4 points and 1.8 rebounds in his sophomore season last year, his only full season as a mem­ber of the Irish team. 
Israel has been nagged by injuries. He missed his entire freshman season recovering from knee surgery in February 2003 and had his knee scopnd recently to remove debris from it. 
Brey estimated in October that Israel would return Nov. 1 and said Friday that the for­ward practiced "probably about eight, nine, 10 days" 
after  returning  from  the  
injury.  
Brey was "not totally"  sur­ 

prised by Israel's departurn. 
''I'm disappointed," Brey said following Friday night's game. "You never want to lose anybody, but college basket­ball is survival of the fittest. And in fairness to Omari, he wasn't very healthy to compete this fall." 
Israel's only available com­ments appeared in the press release. 
"I believe that it is time for a cha.nge and I want to be able to move on with my basketball career," Isreal said. "I have enjoyed my experience at Notre Dame and wish my teammates and the eoaehing staff all the best during the upeoming season and in the future. I always will remember my time here as a mmnber of the Irish basketball program." 
Brey wished Israel the best but was not concerned about the team's ability to move on. 
"As I told IOmaril when I sat with him, I said I want him to be happy playing basketball and I want him to graduatn from college," Brcy said. "We'll help him find a place. I've been on this end of it when they go and I've been on the reeeiving end. I know how to do this dance. But I'm obvi­ously very eomfortable with what we have remaining, and I'm not worried about our numbers. We're going to be OK there." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Feauto paces squad at regionals 
Senior's time of24:00 on 6K course achieves runner's personal goal 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
The Belles finished in style this weekend, achieving sev­eral personal-best times in the Division III Great Lake Hegion als at Voice of America Park Saturday. 
Senior Becky Feauto led the Belles with a time of 
24:00 for the six-kilometer 
"It was a

course. That 24:51, respec­mark matched wonderful season. tively. her goal going Bauters said
I think the 

into the raee the stat lines
transition went
and broke her might not personal record really well. " reflect the duo's by 17 seconds in actual impact the event. on the team.
Jackie Bauters 
Belles coaeh "Miller had a 
Belles coach 

Jackie Bauters said Feauto's accomplishment was impres­sive on its own but even more so because junior Sara Otto, Feauto's running part­ner for most of the year, did­n't compete in the event. 
"It was great for her," Bauters said. "That was her goal time, and she achieved it. She ran 'really well, and she ran really well without having Sara there, who she usually runs with. When you lose your running mate, it's kind of tough." 
Five of Saint Mary's seven runners improved their 6K times from the MIA/\ Championship meet two weeks ago while three set personal records. 
"I know we didn't place as a team as high as we had last year, but four. of our nv;; scorers ... were freshman, Bauters said. 
Kelly Biedron and Alieen Miller led the underclassmen with times of 
24:45 and 

standout per: formance, Bauters said. 
Though the Belles finished No. 28 out of 31 sehools in the meet, Bauters said they could take pride in their individual performances. 
"Considering the situation, it was a great experience," she said. "To say the least, I'm not disappointed." 
The. first-year coach said she is also happy with thn way the season went as a whole. 
''I'm just really glad to be back at Saint Mary's," she said. "It was a wonderful season. I think the transition went really well." 
"Being here wasn't hard at all." 
Bauters said one of the dif­ficulties in thB beginning of the season was getting to know the freshmen, who were reeruited by former head coach and current assistant coach Dave Barstis. 
Highlighted by freshmnn oecupying four of seven plaees in the regional meet, Saint Mary's ran well all year, Bauters said. 
"I didn't really know what to expect with the freshman ... because Dave IBars tis I recruited in the past," shn said. ''I'm rnally pleased with how the freshmen did." 
Junior Katie White finished fourth for the Bolles with a time of 24:55 Saturday. Freshmen Caitlin Stevenson and Graee Fey took fifth and sixth on the team, and sen­ior Megan O'Nnil placnd snv­enth. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl @nd.edu 
.-------------------------------------------------------­
page 20 Monday, November 14, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 
ND MEN'S SWIMMING 

Irish barely scrape by pesky Spartans 

Brown sparks squad's third dual victory this season for top-20 ND 
By DAN MURPHY Sporrs Writer 

-
The Irish defeated Michigan State in a nail-biter Friday by a score of 122.5-120.5 to improve their record to 3-1. No. 18 Notre Dame held off the Spartans in the last race for a two-point victory. 
After such a close win, Notre Dame's confidence is rising. "We have the ability to sense 


"We have really that raise the bar separated team accumulat­in order to come ed 29 points to 
urgency, and with The diving 
ourselves in the 
out with a win," help Notre Dame
past few years. " 
Irish swimmer overcome the Ted Brown said. fired-up Spartan Brown certainly squad.
Jamie Lutkus 
did his part to "We knew we
Irish swimmer 
raise the bar by recording first-place finishes for the fourth and fifth time this season. His wins came in the 500-and 1,000-yard freestyle, with times of 4:34.89 and 9:27.33 respectively. 
Other Irish swimmers with 

-
big days were captain Patrick Hefernan, who took first in the 200-yard butterfly, and Louis Cavadini, whose 21.18­second time in the 50-yard freestyle was good for first place. 
The biggest contribution to the team's victory came from the diving duo of freshman Michael Bulfin and sophomore Sam Stoner. The young pair finished first and second in both diving events. Bulfin started off by winning the 1­meter competition, but was bested by Stoner in the 3­meter dive. 
"Training with Sam has helped a lot; we both push 

each other," Bulfin said. "If we keep working hard I think that we are both on a pace to reach the [NCAAs]." 
Both divers took a step in that direction· against the Spartans by scoring high enough to qualify for the NCAA Zone Meet at the end of 
the  season,  where  a  win  
would  place  them  in  the  
national tournament.  

Even Michigan State head coach Matt Giandotas was impressed with how the tan­dem performed on Friday. 
"Your divers really pulled through for you today," Giandotas said to Brown after the meet. "They're becoming a 
huge part of the team." 
were in for a 

tough meet from the very beginning." Irish swimmer Jamie Lutkus said. "We were just happy to come away with the win." 
Notre Dame will now return home for a showdown with St. Bonaventure at 9:30 a.m. next Saturday at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
"We have really separated ourselves in the past few years. We are hoping to get a big win at home this week­end," Lutkus said. 
The Irish have also been looking forward to the Notre Dame Invitational, to be held at Rolfs Aquatic Center from Dec. 1-3. 
"We have been training real­ly hard for the Invitational for the past couple weeks, trying to get as fast as we can," Brown said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Gophers not so golden at 111eet 

SOFIA BALLON!The Observer 

Irish swimmer Julia Quinn glides through the pool during Notre Dame's 163-135 win over 
Minnesota Friday at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Writer 
The Irish women are starting to find their rhythm as Notre Dame won its second consecu­tive meet, defeating Minnesota 163-135 Friday. The win evens out Notre Dame's record at 2-2 on the season, but more impor­tantly, it was the first home vic­tory for first-year head coach Carrie Nixon. 
"It's definitely a big deal," Nixon said. "It's the first one in this new era. It's always fun to win at home in front of your friends and your roommates and all the people that cheer you on every day." 
The Irish turned in their most impressive performance of the season, winning 11 out of 16 events, even better than the eight of 13 events Notre Dame won against Pittsburgh the pre­vious week. 
Junior Katie Carroll, whose three wins pushed her season victory total to 10, once again led the Irish. 

Carroll set two new school records as she bested the previ­ous mark in the 200 freestyle, which she set two weeks ago against California, by .06 sec­onds, as well as setting a new record in the 100 butterfly with a time of 55.28. 
Nixon has been impressed with the performance of her junior swimmer. 
"She has really developed into a great leader," Nixon said. "She has taken on the chal­lenge of making this team bet­ter each and every time she gets in the water." 
While Carroll's performance was undoubtedly a good sign for the Irish, a better sign was the strong effort turned in across the board for Notre 
Dame. 
Rebecca Grove, Julia Quinnand Jessica Stephens all won multiple events in Friday's 
meet, giving the Irish reason to think they will be well repre­sentedwhentheNCAAchampi­onships come calling. 
"Some of our girls have a good chance to make the NCAAs in December," Nixon said. 
While the NCAAs will be a major focus for Notre Dame in the near future, the Irish now turn their focus to this week's Minnesota Invitational. 
Among others, the Irish will face the same Minnesota team they just defeated, and they have plenty of confidence entering the meet. 
"This past meet was a great momentum builder," Nixon said. "We go into this week with a chance to fine-tune some things, and we're going to use this meet as a stepping stone." 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu r------------------,
VERA BRAD[ EY 1 
; -' · · · -' 1 ; 20%) offwith ND/SMCStu.LD.: 
1  tltlf.e ~.lt ~.lt  1  
:  East Bank Emporium R~mnl Bld g.  :  
1  I21S.NilesAve.,(574)232-8488  1  
L  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - .1  

Study Abroad this Summer through Notre Dame Programs in: 
Quito, Ecuador-NEW!! Paris, France -NEW!! Dublin, Ireland Milan, Italy-NEW!! Puebla, Mexico Toledo, Spain Kampala, Uganda-NEW!! 
Come to an information session to learn more... 
Tuesday, November 15, 2005 5:00pm 231 Hayes Healy 

Application deadline is March 1, 2006 
Monday, November 14, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Both Irish teams take second 
cannot expect to be conserva­
Madia, Huddle pace 
tive in tho NCAAs and come won1en as Benninger away with a national champi­onship.
leads men at regionals "We've got to step it up, but I think we can," Piano said. "There were very few teams 
By CHRIS KHOREY that could cruise through the region meet like we did."
SpomWrirer Kurt Benninger led the Irish, who finished second to defend­Both the Notre Damn men's ing regional champion and women's teams kept their Wisconsin. national ehampionship dreams Tho junior f'inished second alive Saturday, qualifying for overall with a time of 31 :06. the NCAA Championship rnent Seniors Sean O'Donnell, Tim with sneond plaee f'inishcs at Moore and Kaleb Van Ort ran in tho c;rnat l.akns Hngional meet a tight paek for most of the race in Bloomington. Ind. and finished 11th, 12th and The No. !i mnn's tnam ran 13th rnspnctively. eonsnrvativnly, using a paek Benninger ran with the pack stratngy to ensurn for the first half of a solid finish the race but pulled
"We've got to step
without ovnrex­away over the last tonding thnm­it up, but I think we four kilometers. selvns before tlw Freshman
can. There were 
NCAAs. Patrick Smyth was 
very few teams
"We wanted to the No. 5 runner automatically that could cruise for Notre Dame, qualify, hut wn rounding out the
through the region 
wantPd to qualify Irish scoring line­
meet like we did. " 
with a minimum up in 20th place amount of ell'ort," with a time of Irish nwn 's r.oaeh Joe Plane 31:45. .Jon Piane said. "That was a ter­
Irish coach 

"Frankly. wo rific performance knew if wo were for a freshman," in tho top four in the mont, we'd Piano said. "lie ran a great got a bid. Obviously, if we worn race." in thn top two, we would qualify The No. 4 Irish women were automatically, but we felt if we led, as usual, by All-Americans worn in the lop four, )Ve would Molly Huddle, Stephanie Madia gnt an at-large hid anyway." and Sunni Olding, who all fin­
Piano said his toam's strong ishP.d in the top 10 with times running throughout the year under 21:20. allowed them to takn it easy Freshman Hamsey Kavan, during the rngionals. who has been running with the 
"It's pretty rare that you r.an three All-Amerieans all season, do that," he said. "It's a won­finished tenth Saturday with a dnrfulluxury." time of 21:30. 
Still, Piano said that the team Kavan was the highest-plac­ing freshman in the meet. 
"She's done an absolutely great job," Madia said of Kavan. "She's been pretty mature and dealt with a higher level of corn­petition really great." 
Madia also said the Notre Dame top four, who have all placed in the top 11 of three mP.ets this year, have developed chemistry that has helped them in meets this year. 
"I think the top four of us on any given day, whoever feels the best can take the lead," she said. "We're all really good friends, so I think that helps. We all want to help eaeh other and get thp, job done for each other." 
Jean Marinangeli, Elizabeth Webster and Katie DeHusso have competed all year to be tho No. 5 runner for thp, Irish. Webster was fifth on the team with a 46th place finish Saturday. 
Although Marinangeli, Webster and DeBusso have struggled most of the year to keep up with the top four, Madia said she is confident they will do wP.Il at the NCAAs. 
"I have every confidence in the world in Jean, Elizabeth and Katie," she said. "I know if they run their best and have a good race, then we'll bP. happy at nationals. In cross country, if P.veryone runs their best and things don't work out, there isn't much you can do, but we think if we all run well we have a chance to compete at nation­als." 
The NCAA meet will be hold Nov. 21 in Terre IlautP., Ind on the earnpus of Indiana State. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


lnt rn hi Pr 
r 
Campus Ministry '06-'07 
Information Session for Prospective Interns 
Tuesday November 15th 5:00pm to 6:00pm 316 Coleman-Morse 
PIZZA WILL BE PROVIDED 
Come to meet the current interns, ask any questions and pick up applications 
If you have any questions, contact Darrell Paulsen at 631-5827 or d aulse1 nd.edu 


NO VOLLEYBALL 
Rutgers, Georgetow-n finish up regular slate 
Notre Dame clinches top seed in conference tourney next weekend 
By TOM DORWART Spons Writer 
The Irish clinched it. 
Saturday, No. 8 Notre Dame (24-2, 13-1 Big East) downed Villanova 30-13, 30-25, 30-23, and Sunday, the Irish swept Hutgers 30-23. 30-19, 30-27 to finish the regular season 13-1 in the Big East Conference in a tie with Louisville, a team the Irish beat in four games a little over two weP.ks ago. 
This earns the Irish tho No. 1 seed for this weekend's Big East tournament. 
"There's definitely no time to celebrate because we're really not satisfied at all." sophomore outside hitter Adrianna Stasiuk said. "We're just hun­gry to keep doing well and keep working hard." 
Still, the Irish say they aren't pleased they have to be con­sidered, technically, eo-cham­pions. 
"It's more motivation," Stasiuk said. "We don't want to share the Litle. It just fires us up to be first and beat Louisville again." 
Against Hutgers, Notre Dame tallied 48 kills. Snnior Lauren Kelbley and Stasiuk led the way with 10 apiecP.. Senior LaurP.n Brewstnr added nine, while freshman Mallorio Croal spiked eight. 
On the defensive sidP., senior Carolyn Cooper had four blocks -one solo and threp, assisted. Stasiuk had four blocks -two solo and two assisted -while BrP.wster added two. 
Rutgers, which was playing for a spot in the conference tournament, needed a win and a Villanova loss to qualifY. The Scarlet Knights foil to 11-16 overall and 6-8 in tho confer­ence. 
Saturday, Villanova fell to 20-10 ovorall and 7-6 in the conference. 
Kelbley led th<r Irish again with 13 kills, while Brnwstnr and Cooper each pounded 10. Stasiuk added seven. 
As usual, sophomore sottnr Ashley Tarutis paced the oll'<m­sivn attack with 46 set assists. 
After a win Sunday at DePaul, the Wildcats (21-10, 8­(> Big East) earned tlw No. 8 send in tho tournament. 
Notre Damn will face Villanova in tho first round of' the r.onf'nr<mr.e tournamont this Friday in Louisville. 
After playing the Wildcats and sweeping thmn Saturday, tho Irish consider it a positive to be playing them again so soon. 
"I think it is lgoodl because you're f'amiliar with the team," Stasiuk said. "They'rn pretty fwsh in your minds. I think we felt good on the court playing thmn. and we're confident that wn can play well and Iwin I again on Friday." 
It's ba1:k to pnu:tiee today as 
. ,

thn Irish arn detnrm i rwd not to slip up, saying thny are deter­mined to win the conferen<:n title outright. 
Sinr.n losing tlwir first and only confnrnnen mateh of tho season a little ovnr a wn1~k ago at Pittsburgh, the Irish havo won two straight. 
Friday, they hope to knnp their str<~ak going in a tourna­ment in which they've had great suecoss -Notre Damn has won tho confonmce tour­narnp,nt eight of the past 10 years. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, November 14, 2005 
in an Intentional F"~aith Comn1uJ1ity Teacl1 tl1e f'"~aith Study for a 1\!Iaster's Degree in Theology Work with a Pt·ofessicrn.al J'vle11tor 

(,"'-lre···-·•:._ 

Answeri11g 
the 
Call 




/" 

TICKETS $10/$8/$6/$3
MARIE P. DEBARTOLO UNIVERSITY Ol' NOTRE DAME 
ANN KELLEY/The Observer 
PHONE 574-631-2800

CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS DftPARTMm>i'T OF MUSIC 
Pasquerilla West players and coaches celebrate their 12-6 over­time win over Cavanaugh Saturday. 
Quincy 
continued from page 28 
Quinn said. "I think, as you can see, 80 points is a little bit bet­ter than, what did we have? 50-something?" 
Notre Dame brushed a 59­point performance against Lnwis Nov. 3 into the past, par­ticularly with 14-of-15 shooting from its two starting frontcourt mmn bers, forward Hob Kurz (7-of-8, 14 points) and center Tori n Francis ( 7 -of-7, 16 points, seven rebounds). 
Franeis seornd four points to opnn Irish scoring that blew the game wide open almost imme­diately from the tip. Quincy's Jordan Hoth hit a layup after Francis' first bucket to tie the game at two, but two 3-point­ers from Colin Falls (11 points, night assists) and baskets by Quinn and freshman Hyan Ayers (seven points, two assists) opnnnd a 14-4 lead six minutes in. 
That load grnw to 21-9 by the 1 0-rninuto mark and 42-20 at halftime. The Irish never trailnd in tho game and played all available players. 
The same starting l'ive of Quinn, Falls, Kurz, Francis and Hussnll Carter represented the Irish to start and set the tone with a mueh more poised but forceful style of play in its opening minutes than it had against Lewis. 
"They have to play their way out of ]the starting lineup! right now," l~r11y said,; "But nothing's etdwd 111 stone. 
Frnshrnan point guard Kyle M1:Alarney did not play, sitting with lowor back spasms that Brey said he would reevaluate either Tuesday or Wednesday. Forward Ornari Israel's depar­ture from the team also short­ened tlw Notre Dame bench. But Brey's need to experiment with player combinations did not diminish. 
defeating the Wild Women of 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
between two strong defensive teams. With less than two minutes
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME CHORALE 
remaining in the game, quar­terback Katie Mooney handed off to Brynn Johnson, who rushed in for a 3-yard touch­
& 

down to give Pangborn a two­touchdown lead and a berth in the Interhall championship 
CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 
game next Sunday. 
The seore was Johnson's sec­ond of the game, capping off another huge performance by the Phoxes. She carried the ball 12 times on offense for 

Monday, November 14, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
Selllifinals 
continued from page 28 
ulation tied at 6-6. 
"We were expecting a fight from the beginning," Cermak said. "We were the underdogs in the game but were expeet­ing to battle, but we knew we could." 
Battle they did, as the Weasels knocked off the high­flying Cavanaugh offense. · 
Cermak said the Weasels used Cavanaugh's game plan of short passes in the windy conditions to PW's advantage. 
"We let the girls catch the balls but stripped their flags
PHIL nuLI<:L<>UNI 

right there," she said. "They
Notre Dame point guard Chris Quinn looks to pass against 
would make their passes, but
Quincy Friday. The Irish won 80-53. 
they wouldn't get anywhere." 
"''m glad have another nine days before we play again," Brey said. "It's been good when we've been able to almost get into a football week and just try to do a little bit better than the week before and not get ahead of ourselves." 
Heturned from an ankle injury but not fully healthy, for­ward Hick Cornett played just 14 minutes and shot 1-of-5 from the floor and 0-of-3 from the foul line. Brey played Cornett and F,rancis together at one point in the shuflle of play­ers but insisted his starting lineup was in the team's best interests at this point in the season. 
"The two bigs we start are our best defensive big guys. They guard," Brey said. "And they're physical. The other two guys that come ofT are corning and are very talented offensive­ly." 
Brey also said playing time of big men is predicated first of all on health, and secondly on who is playing consistently. 
Carter, in his second straight start, scored just five points and did not get heavily involved 
Walsh 13-0 in a matchup 
nearly 75 yards. ller longest run of' the game was a 30-yard rush that set up Pangborn's first score. 
A strong t·unning gamn was essential in Sunday's ganw as inclement weather conditions hampered both teams' passing games. Gusts of' winds blew continuously across the field, making it hard to eomplete any passes at all. Mooney and the Phox receivers were unable to 
connect  on  their  12  pass  
attempts.  
"When  we  got to  the l'ield  

and saw all the wind, we knew it was going to be a day for our rushing offense," Pangborn defensive baek Katie Hiemersma said. 
Walsh quarterback Mary Sullivan also struggled against the weather -completing just two of her 21 pass attempts and throwing one interception. 
"The weather played a huge factor in the game, but I won't take anything away from Pangborn," Sullivan said. "They are a legitimate team and played well today." 
Despite struggling on offense, the Wild Women were able to control field position in the first half and threatened to score on multiple occasions. The Walsh defense showed its toughness by sacking Mooney four times and holding Pangborn to a single first down for the half'. 
Walsh's best seoring opportu­nity carne on the first drive of the game when. Botta ran for one first down and then hit an open receiver for another. However, the drive was stopped when Hiemersma intercepted Sullivan's pass on the goal line. 
The Wild Women ended the year with a 6-2 record, falling just shy of the chanee to defend last year's champi­onship. 
"Of course we're upset about not making it," Sullivan said. "But we base our success on relationships made and the fun we had ... on both accounts the seasoJ? was a huge success." 
Pangborn will trek to the Stadium next Sunday to face the winners of the other semi­final, Pasquerilla West. The Purple Weasels will be another tough test for the Phoxes. 
"We beat them pretty badly earlier in the year, but they are a much better team now," Riemersma said. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl @nd.edu and Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
in the offensive onslaught but still, his coach observed, added positives to the gameplan on defense and in running the floor. 
"A couple of his drives ignite you a little bit," Brey said, referring specifically to Carter's baseline drive-and-dunk early in the second half. "He's just got to continue to understand he doesn't have to knock down a 3-point shot to help us." 
Ayers impressed his coaches and teammates in a backup role at point guard when he played without Quinn on the floor. Ayers has auditioned in practice as Quinn's backup with MeAlarney not in the line­up. 
His maintenance of the tone set by the starting live Friday kept the game out of reach of Quiney. 
"Once we secured the defen­sive rebound, we were getting out and we were running," Quinn said. "And when we can get some easy baskets, that always helps." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
The Weasels and Chaos trad­ed touchdowns in regulation but played solid defense to keep the game a low-scoring affair. 
Weasel quarterback Cara Davies set up the PW score with a deep pass along the sideline to Maureen Spring. 
It was another big game for the freshman quarterback, who led the Weasels to a dra­matic victory a week ago over McGlinn. · 
After needing a win in their final regular season game to seal their spot in the playoffs and overtime to win consecu­tive playoff games, the Weasels may be an unlikely team for the finals but not an unconfi­dent one, especially not after the way the defense shut down the high-powered Cavanaugh attack. 
"I knew our defense can make a stand -they have many times -no matter where !the offense is]." Cermak said. 
Pangborn 13, Walsh 0 
The Pangborn Phoxes punched their ticket to the Stadium Sunday afternoon by 
page 24 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, November 14, 2005 
Weekend 
continued from page 28 
Irish a quick 1-0 edge over the Crusaders. 
Thorlakson said she doesn't feel any added pressure to reach certain statistical meas­ures. 
"My goal is to perform and try and win," she said. 
Notre Dame went nearly 40 minutes without another good scoring opportunity, but Thorlakson made the most of one late in the half with goal No. 17 on the season. She recovered the rebound of a Maggie Manning shot and hit the back right portion of the net to extend the Irish lead to 2-0 before the half. 
"The last five to seven min­utes of the first half, we got a little bit chaotic, a little disor­ganized," Valparaiso coach Stephen Anthony said. "It took the wind out of our sails." 
Valparaiso came back with a strong start to the second half and forced Notre Dame into physical play early. 
"I just was really impressed with their heart and their fight," Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. "They hung in there and fought." 
The Irish only cracked open the game after 15 minutes of tough play in the second half when second-semester fresh­man Kerri Hanks took a Thorlakson cross and tapped it in on the right side. 
Less than three minutes later, Hanks maneuvered along the baseline and found Cinalli for another Irish tap-in, extending the Notre Dame lead to 4-0. 
Freshman Brittany Bock scored her 10th goal of the year at 68:15 with a header into the upper right corner after a Maggie Manning cross and Jil Krivacek secondary assist. 
With the Irish up 5-0, Waldrum substituted most of his reserves for starters and saw his second line add on a sixth goal against the Crusaders. 
Susan Pinnick found Maggie Manning from the end line for a tap-in goal to give the Irish the 6-0 advantage that would stand as the final score. 
Waldrum said Manning's four-point night was indicative of how she played toward the end of the season. 
"She came on, and just a few minutes after coming on, had a goal and an assist," Waldrum said. "She's a really intelligent player. She sees the game." 
Notre Dame 3, MSU 0 
Thorlakson was back at her old tricks again Sunday, lead­ing the Irish to a victory over the Spartans at a windy Alumni Field. 
Michigan State contained the senior for much of the first half but couldn't keep Notre Dame's all-time leading post­season points scorer off the board too long. 
Thorlakson got the assist on Notre Dame's first goal after taking the ball in the left cor­ner, faking right, going left and finding Hanks cutting to the goal. Thorlakson's pass was right on line, and Hanks tapped the ball in to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. 
Five minutes later, the Irish laid stake to a 2-0 advantage when Thorlakson took a pass from Annie Schefter on the right side, measured the goal­keeper and blasted a shot past Nicole Galas from the close right wing. 
"We had our work cut out for us, and we knew that," Michigan State coach Tom Saxton said. "Notre Dame has two of the best forwards in the country on their team, and it's tough to play against that. ... [Thorlakson] did her job today, and she's a good one." 
Schefter added a goal of her own three minutes into the second half with a header to the left side of the net thanks to a cross by Cinalli. 
"I thought considering the wind and the weather ... I was fairly pleased with the way we played today," Waldrum said. 
Michigan State managed just one shot on goal, an attempt by Emily Weigand late in the 



i<us.Celluhn: 
We connect with you: 
Offer valid on two-year servlc& lliJteement on loeal_and regiOnal plans of $39.95 or hlgller.AII servrce agreements subject ro an earty termination fee. Credit approval reQUired. $30 activation fee. $15 equipment change fee. Rooming charges, fees, sutcharges; ovemge Charges and taxes apply._so__.95 Regulatory Cost Recove!"j Fee apptle.s. This Is notatax or government-required networ1< coverage antl rellabftity may W!"j. Usage rOUild· eo up to the naxt full minute. Usa of se!Vk:e constitutes acceptance ofour terms and conditions. llnllmiled Night and :00 p.m. ro 6:59 a.m. and all day Saturday and Sunday.Nigtrt and \Veekentl Minutes are available In local calling area only.l(K:al calling area differs from national caHing . . IJ!ICkege minutes and are only available wllen receiv· lng calls In your lOCal caning area. local caiUng area differs from national calling area. Mobile Messaging: Users must be in their digital local callifl!i area for service to work. Functionality may depentl on other carrier's networks antl phones. U,S. Cellular does not guarantee message delivery or nmelinase. 150-chamCter limn per message for text messaQing. u.s. CeliUialn<ll responsible for content of messages. Acharge of 101: per outgoing message applies Wno messaging jlllCkege is. selected or exisUng.package Um~ iS exceeded. Sy USing u.s. Celluklr'_s MQblle MessaQing you agree to be IX>t!nd.bY an terms and conditions vieWabl<! at www.usceilurar.conYMessagingterms.Plclure Messaging only available In easyooge"' COvelll!J(! area (sea rnta and map sheet for delai!s). \lXImay be charged for piC!IIre massqges sent from your p/liJilll, even It n<lldelivered Ill the intentled redplent due to system or oompi!libifrty Issues. You will not be charged for Picture messages sentkl yuur phone. u.s. CellUla! Is I1Qt respoi1Sible for content ot pictures. easyedge IS the proprietary marK of United States Cellular Corporation. Usa of the AOI.' Instant P/leSse!lgilr'• service mobile appliCatloll requires easyedge data serviCes. The AOL*Instant MesSenger"' servrce Free Trial Shall not exreoo more than one full daY'S flme. Other restlictiona apply. 5ee stora for details. Umited time offer: ©2005 U.S.Cellufareorporatlon. ©2005 OefJam MQbile antl fl/.llnternctNe are llademarl<s antl service marks of their reapecllve owners. Ali rights lllS<1!Ved. 
second half. Lauren Karas, who replaced Erika Bohn in net in the second half, dove to her left and blocked the only true Spartan scoring opportu­nity of the afternoon. 
With the win, the Irish advance to the round of 16 in the NCAA Tournament and face Yale at home on Friday. 
Yale pulled off the upset of the day Sunday, stunning Duke with a 2-1 victory thanks to a goal by Laurel Karnes with less than one second remain­ing on the clock. 
The Bulldogs are one of just three unseeded teams left in the tournament. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Monday, November 14, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 25 

Syracuse 
continued from page 28 
prepares to host 1-8 Syracuse Saturday. 
"Probably worse," Weis said during Sunday's press confer­ence. 
Coming into the pre­Thanksgiving matchup with Notre Dame, Syracuse has lit­tle to be thankful for. 
After knocking off Buffalo Sept. 10 to even their record at 1-1, the Orange have lost seven consecutive games, inCluding an ugly 27-0 shutout against South Florida last week. 
Notre Dame's role as heavy favorite against the flounder­ing Orange isn't the only factor contributing to Weis' discon­tent -a number of negatives from a 42-21 shellacking of the Midshipmen taint an oth­erwise convincing victory, he said. 
Weis was particularly upset with the special teams play Saturday. 
"This was one of the worst performances we had by our special teams all year long," Weis said. "With the exception of the kicking of D.J. 
DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS SPRING 06 COURSES 
Classical Antiquity 

CLAS 10200 GREEK AND ROMAN MYTHOLOGY. Mazurek. T. (MWF 11:45-12:35) This first-year course introduces the mythologies of Greece and Rome-some of the foundational narratives of the Western literary and artisti tradition-and traces their transmission and influence over two and half thousand years from ancient to modern times. CLAS 30120TIIE GREEKS AND THEIR GODS, Faulkner, A. (TR 11:00-12:15) An introduction to the varied and unique religious beliefs and practices of the ancient Greeks. CLAS 30210 ROMAN LAW AND GOVERNANCE, Mazurek, T. (TR 9:30-10:45) An introduction to the nature and influence of Roman law, one of the most celebrated and distinctive elements of ancient Roman culture. The lasting effects of Roman law on modern legal systems will also be considered. CLAS 30360 WORDS AND/OF POWER, Krostenko, B. (TR 2:00-3: 15) This course examines the theory. practice and context of ancient rhetoric, and pays special attention to developments caused by radical changes in the political charucter of the Athenian and Roman civic communities. We will look at representative readings from Greek and Roman orators and writers on rhetorical theory. CLAS 30405 GREEK ARCHITECTURE, Rhodes, R. (TR 2:00-3:15) In this course the development of Greek monumental architecture. and the major problems that define it, will be traced from the 8"' to 2"" centuries 
B.C.• from the late Geometric through the Archaic, Classical and Hellenistic periods. CLAS 40342 ROME, CHRISTIANS AND EARLY EUROPE. MacCormack, S. (MW II :45-1 :00) Exploring a variety of sources, the course examines such topics as the 'fall' of the Roman Empire, the emergence of Byzantine rule and the social, cultural and artistic impact on the Greco-Roman world of early Christianity. The course also offers a special introduction to the literary splendors of Iale antiquity. CLAS 40355 GREEK AND ROMAN EI"IC POETRY, Schlegel, C. (MW 11 :45-l:00) This advanced course in literature provides detailed study of the major epic poems of the classical literary tradition-the Iliad and Odyssey of Homer. the Aeneid of Virgil and the Metamorphoses of Ovid-by paying close attention to their historical contexts and literary conventions. 
Greek and Latin Language and Literature 
CLLA 10002 BEGINNING LATIN U, Staff (several options offered, please check insideND) Part two of a two-semester sequence designed to introduce Latin, the language of the ancient Romans, for the first time. Emphasizes th fundamentals of Latin grammar and vocabulary, and prepares students to read original Latin texts. Latin 10001 offered in the fall, 10002 in th spring. CLLA 10010 INTENSIVE BEGINNING LATIN, Mazurek, E. (MWP 3:00-3:50; also meets T R 3:30-4:20)-5 credits Latin is invaluable for anyone who wishes seriously to pursue study in philosophy, theology, law, literature, and the liberal arts generally. This accelerated course is designed to cover the material of a one-year course in Latin in a single semester. CLLA 20004 READING AND WRITING LATIN PROSE. Staff (several options offered, please check insideND) This second-year language course continues the review of grammar begun in Intermediate Latin and introduces students to stylistic analysis through close readings of Latin prose authors such as Cicero and the Younger Pliny. CLLA 30025 THE AGE OF NERO, Bradley, K. (TR 12:30-1:45) 
The main theme for discussion will be whether a distinctive character to the literature of Nero's age can be discovered through the reading of the letters of that age written by such authors as Seneca, Lucan. Persius, Petronius and Columella. CLLA 40017 M-EDIEVAL LATIN SURVEY. Bloomer, M. (MW 11:45-1:00) The aim of this course is to experience a broad spectrum of Medieval Latin texts. Readings representative of a variety of genres (literary and subliterary), eras. and regions will be selected. Students planning to enroll in this course should be completing Introduction to Christian Latin Texts or secure permission of the instructor. CLLA 40033 ROMAN SATIRE, Schlegel, C. (MW 1:30-2:45) This udvanced course introduces students to the genre of satire, a distinctively Roman creation in which poets, such as Lucilius, Horace, Persius and Juvcnul, express reflections on contemporary life and morals grounded in personal experience. CLLA 500181NTRODUCTION TO PALEOGRAPHY, Sheerin, D. (MWF 8:30-9:20) This course is an introduction: it will provide an overview of the history of Latin letters and writing from the first century B.C. through the 15'" century A. D. CLGR 10002 BEGINNING GREEK II. Faulkner, A. (MWP 10:40-11:30 and T 9:30-10:20) Part two of a two-semester sequence designed to introduce the language of the ancient Greeks for the first time. Emphasizes the fundamentals o ancient Greek grammar and vocabulary, and prepares students to read original Greek texts. Greek 10001 offered in the fall, 10002 in the spring. CLGR 20004 READING AND WRITING GREEK PROSE, McLaren, C. (T R 3:30-4:45) This second-yeur language course continues the review of grammar begun in Intermediate Greek and introduces students to stylistic analysis throug close readings of classical Greek prose authors such as Herodotus and Xenophon. CLGR 30012 HERODOTUS, Bloomer, M. (MW 3:00-4:15) 
This course offers close reading of passages from the Histories of Herodotus. The political, social and cultural conditions of fifth-century Greece tha inspired Herodotus are discussed, and the development of Greek history-writing is examined. CLGR 40031 GREEK LYRIC POETRY, McLaren, C. (TR-2:00-3:15) This advnnced course includes readings from Archilochus' iumbic and elegiac poems, Sappho's monodies and Pindur's choral works. The manner i which these poets wrote and the wuys in which they responded to the epic tradition are key themes for discussion in the course. 
CONTACT THE DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS AT 1-7195 http :1/classics.nd.edu 


[Fitzpatrkk I and the coverage of David Bruton, I wasn't very pleased with just about any­thing we did." 
From kickoffs to punting, the unit consistently failed to play its best football. 
"Our kickoff average was poor, our kickoff return was poor. We almost had a punt blocked, we didn't snap very well," Weis said. "We missed some opportunities in thn punt return game. Twice we had a ch an e n 0 r t a k i n g i t t () tlw house, and we were o1w man away from that being the ease. We're obviously going to have t,o pI ay '~. Iot bn tte r against 
Syracuse. 
In addition to special teams, Wnis identiried both mndiocrn tackling and pass eovnragn on defense as areas of eoneern. 
"Although I thought we tack­led okay, I thought thoy wm·n soft at times, and we worn dnf'­initely too soft with tho quar­terback," Weis said. "We wt~re l'ortunatn, we didn't gnt much of a bitll disruption on tlw passing game. We wnrn just fortunate they didn't hit on some of those play action pass­es because we all saw thnrn were some guys wide open, • they just didn't connect, so they turned out to be long foul balls." 
Hounding out Weis' critique was disappointment surround­ing Notre Dame's inability to stop the Navy oiTm1se on drives to not only start the game, but also to open the second half. The Midshipmnn drove 69 yards on 16 plays on their first possnssion of the contest, cul­minating in an 8-yard touch­down run by Adam Ballard. Navy opened the second half with an SO-yard, 12-play drive that endnd with a onn-yard Lamar Ownns touchdown run. 
"They had a touchdown on the first drivn the first half. which I ean attribute to the speed of the gamn, whieh is not a good thing," Wnis said. "But what I didn't like was we also gave up a touchdown the start of the second hall', and we'll be working on the starts of the games again this week, even though we had empha­sized that as a point for this wenk." 
Notes: 
+ The Irish had a couple of new faces quarterbacking the scout team last wonk. In preparation for Navy's unique option-style offense, Weis had Darrin Bragg and Kyln McCarthy -who had expnri­ence as an option quartnrbaek in high school -both take snaps and mimic the Midshipman attack. 
"Both Darrin and Kylo were picked as our olTensive scout team players of the week for their simulating the ol'f~msn," Weis said. "I think tlwy both helped us." 
+ Hegardless of all lhe responsibilities that accompa­ny his position as Notre Damn football hnad eoat~h. Weis said he isn't worried about getting overwhelmed by the job. 
"I don'l get burned out," Weis said. "This has been easi­er for me. Don't take it wrong because I'm not being sarcas­tic, but that's almost comical. I've had more time this year than I've had in my entire life. 
"My son said to me, 'I've seen you more this year, Daddy, than I've seen you in my entire life,' and he's 12. I have more energy this time of year. I'm usually at the halfway mark [of the NFL sea­son]." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, November 14, 2005 


any ideas? 
apply for the committee 
submit a design 
positions available: vice-president 

drop-off proposed artwork in the Student Activities
marketing coordinator 

Office in 315 LaFortune. Artwork should be in an
unveiling coordinator 

envelope with name and contact information
web designer apply online at http://theshirt.nd.edu/2006 application deadline is Wednesday, Nov. 23 
the deadline to submit artwork is Friday, Dec. 2 
Falcons 
continued from page 28 
and a 5-on-3 opportunity. 
Jackson has rotated Pearce
r 
and Brown at goalie all season.
i 
There was some speculation
! that Pearce had won the job 
I when he started Thursday's
I game, but Jackson quelled that notion Friday. "I changed the rotation for one reason," Jackson said. "Pearce had the light academic schedule Thursday, and Brown had the light academic sched­ule today. These guys work really hard on their school­work, and I respect that, but I can work around it." Amado's two scores earned him the first multi-goal game of his career. The senior center said his play has improved since he has been asked to take on a greater leadership role this season. "I've always known that I can make plays and score goals," he said. "I expect myself to be a leader. The team expects me to be a leader, and the coaching staff expects me to be a leader. Guys see me dif­ferently this year. They look up to me. I'm not going to be the one screwing around in the locker room. I'm the one keep­ing it loose, but not too loose." Jackson said he has been working with Amado on improving his fundamentals this year. ''I've been on him to use his speed more," Jackson said. "I've also been on him about his shot because he usually puts it over the net. Tonight he put his shots on the net, and you saw what happened." Amado opened the scoring with a breakaway goal just 20 seconds into the game. The puck came loose soon after the opening faceoff, and Amado found himself racing down the ice with teammate Tim Wallace. Wallace picked up the puck and passed to Amado, whose shot glanced off the glove of Bowling Green goalie Jon Horrell and went into the net. Amado said he was excited to find himself on a breakaway. "I haven't had too many clear shots this year, so it was good to get one off and put it in the back of the net," he said. Jackson said the goal was important to get the game off to a positive start for the Irish. "We scored on the first shift, and that certainly doesn't hurt our chances to win," he said. "Scoring the first goal is one of our team goals because the team that does that wins about 80 percent of the time." The Irish struck again with a 
power play goal by Josh Sciba at the 15:07 mark of the peri­od. 
Sciba took a pass on the left 

Write Sports. 

side from Wes O'Neill and blasted a slap shot past Horrell. 
Notre Dame scored again early in the second as Amado broke free again and beat Horrell top shelf. 
The Falcons did not give up, however. Thirty-three seconds into the third period, they got a goal from Mike Falk, who tipped in the rebound of a slapshot by teammate Alex Foster. 
Falk scored again 12 minutes later on a power play to cut the Irish lead to one. 
Amado said despite the sud­den comeback by Bowling Green, the Irish never felt like they would relinquish the lead. 
"There was never really doubt," he said. "You always think you can win. There was a bit of a silence, but then people were right back yelling." 
The team's confidence was rewarded as Wallace extended the lead to two with a putback of a Noah Babin, shot with 
2:45 left in the game. 
Notre Dame will be back in action this week in Oxford, Ohio against Miami University Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Chris Khorey at 
JENNIFER 

Notre Dame forward Tim Wallace skates up the ice against Bowling Green Friday. The Irish beat 

Call Mike at 1-4543. 



Monday, November 14, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 

JOCKULAR 
CROISSANTWORLD 
So ... \-IOW'D 'JOU.t2-. 
'DPITE L1 o f'i~. I OP.'i 
N I 1.:1 HT 7 1> I 0 '/ 0 U tiND P..N~TH IN !.:I -ro 1:>0 ON (1'\Hf'LIS? 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

'{OU. \(NoW. II 1.S AMA:ZIN q I-lOW MUC::.l-1 FUN '(OU C..AN HA\JE A CA~DSo AR'I> Box. 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
NITHK 
(lJ b
102005 Tribune Media SeiVIces, Inc. All Rights ReseiVed. 
GUMS I 
[J I lu

tREPIME 
IJ I b

www.jumble.com 
ROYSAR j 
I Jumbles:

Saturday's 
Answer: 
CHICK 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Polson lyy. Use this salve and stop slicing
into the woods 
WHAT THE SKIN DOC.TDI< GAVE THE GOLFER 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
{Answers tomorrow) FUSSY FUSION BICEPS 
What she wanted her talkative ski partner to do ­"SCHUSS" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Swimming units 5 Not tight 
10 Possess 14 Geometry calculation 15 City on the 
Missouri 16 Asia's Sea 17 Laurel or Musial 18 VCR button 19 Pastrami 
purveyor 20 Actor Quaid transgressed 23 Giant Hall-of­
Farner 26 Not as much 27 Condoleezza 
Rice's department 28 Bongos 30 Two-striper in the Army: Abbr. 32 Draft org. 
33 Frontiersman Boone did some carpentry 38 Bridge 
39 St. Nick 
40 Capital on a 
fjord 44 Actor Hickman showed boredom 47 Fuel economy stat. 50 Non-earthlings, 
for short 51 Asinine 52 Move on all 
fours 54 Hydrofluoric _ 57 Exxon product 58 President Ford 
stared fiercely 62 As a czar, he was terrible 63 Home of the University of Maine 64 _ Romeo 
(sports car) 
68 Olympic sled 
69 Assign to, as 
blame 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

70 Potting material 71 Popular jeans 72 Fencing 
weapons 73 Very large 
DOWN 1 _Cruces, 
N.M. 2 "But is it ?" 3 Vegetable that 
rolls 
4 Hourglass contents 5 Greene of 
"Bonanza" 
6 Black cats, to the superstitious 7 Caravan's stop a"_ a Lady" (Tom Jones hit) 9 Diner sign 10 Lacked, briefly 11 Sporting venues 12 Gentlemen's gentlemen 13 Omits, in pronunciation 21 Ultimatum ender 22 Man or Wight 23 and ends 
24 Links hazard 
25 Albacore or yellowfin 
29 Intellect 
31 Thespian production 34 Future D.A.'s exam 35 Ayes' opposite 36 Cape_, Mass. 37 Low in spirits 
WILLSHORTZ 


41 Hose problem  49 It may have a  59 Latest news,  
42 _ the Hyena 43 Praiseful poems  remote­activated door  slangily so Stagehand  
45 Place to make a  53 Declines  61 Sprinter's event  
wish  54"Home_,"  65 Singer Rawls  
46 Assistant 47 Montreal  Macaulay Culkin movie  66 Tiniest amount to care  
university  55 Tippy craft  67 "Cakes and  
48 Advance look,  56 Numbered  _"(Maugham  
informally  clubs  novel)  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: Whoopi Goldberg, 50; Chris Noth, 
51; Joe Mantegna, 58; Samantha Hart, 9 
Happy Birthday: Get into the right frame of mind --idle time will be your 
enemy. You have a lot to prove this year, so don't he afraid to he a little hit 
different. It's your uniqueness that will be able to open doors. Sudden changes 
will leave you feeling lucky but surprised. Your numbers arc 4. 12, 21, 33, 39, 
41 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Time is of the essence today. Your accuracy will astound everyone. Your willpower and determination will help you see matters through to the end. You can learn a valuable lesson hy watching others.*** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Much will he conducted behind closed doors today. You may need to read between the lines if you want to get a clear picture. A problem with an older relative will not be as bad as you first thought. *** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): Don't restrict yourself from making contact with someone you want to get to know hctlcr. You can adjust to whatever you arc faced with and. because of this, will resolve any issues that arise. **** CANCER (.June 21-,July 22): If you arc open to suggestions, you will do much betler today. Love is in a high cycle and should he nurtured. Don't get angry about financial matters or requests for donations. ** LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Everything is looking good, so refrain from arguing or thinking you know everything. Take a short trip that will bring you in contact with someone who can get you thinking about your future. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will have plenty to take care of today. Added responsibilities may bog you down, hut your generosity and help will he rewarded. Taking care of the needs of others will give you insight into your own situation. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): It's time to get serious about a creative venture you 
want to pursue. You can find out some interesting information from someone you haven't talked to in a while. Get a head start on your work week today. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): If possible, attend an industry event or a trade show that can spark some ideas for future projects. Romance is looking good. Entertaining in your home will bring about an opportunity to work with an old 
friend.*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec, 21): Problems with the people you live with will crop up if you stick around home. Get in touch with an old lover who has been on your mind. It will help you to make up your mind regarding the personal changes. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan_ 19): Check into the risk factor before taking a chance with your money. Someone you are close to will have his or her own idea of how you should spend your cash. Take care of your responsibilities. ** AQUARIUS (.Jan_ 20-Feb. Ill): You will have a good idea regarding work and how you can make some additional money. Change may he inevitable, hut that doesn't mean that it has to be bad. You'll realize you are long overdue for a complete shake-up. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Consider putting in a few hours on a project that needs to be completed. You will feel so much better once the work is done. A jaunt to a place that you enjoy or time spent with people who have a unique 
lifestyle will be inspiring. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are courageous when faced with danger. You arc kind and empathetic with others. You are passionate, giving and spontaneous in love. You have a strong sense of who you are and what you can do. 
EuPenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for tim. euPenialast.com for confidt•lltial C"onsultations 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City ______________ State ____ Zip_______ 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Monday, November 14, 2005 
page 28 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL-SEMIFINALS 
Headed to Rock's house 

ry over Cavanaugh Sunday. Ruffer's desperate fourth­The overtime victory wasBy KEN FOWLER AND After scoring on their pos­down attempt fell incomplete, the second straight for PWDAN MURPHY session in the extra period, the celebration was on for the and extended the team's 
Sports Writers 

the Purple Weasels stuffed the Weasels. dream season to the champi­Chaos on first and second "Our emotions are already onship game in Notre Dame 
Pasquerilla West made the downs. Then, on third down, high and are going to build Stadium. defensive stop it needed and the PW defensive line broke throughout the week [leading The game was a battle for clinched a spot in the Interhall through the Cavanaugh front up to the finals]," Weasels both teams, which ended reg-Championship next week with and got to quarterback Lisa offensive lineman Sara a thrilling 12-6 overtime victo-Ruffer for the sack. When Cermak said. see SEMIFINALS/page 23 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Tea111 vvins two gatnes in tourney 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Katie Thorlakson knows how to win in the NCAA Tournament. 
The national player-of-the­year candidate and 2005 Big East offensive MVP led the Irish to victories in the first and second rounds of the NCAA Tournament this week­end with two goals and three assists. 
Notre Dame 6, Valparaiso 0 
Thorlakson scored or assist­ed on Notre Dame's first three goals of a 6-0 victory over Valparaiso Friday. 
Just 3:03 into the match, Amanda Cinalli knocked Thorlakson's curving corner kick into the net to give the 
see WEEKEND/page 24 
HOCKEY 

ND completes sweep of Bowling Green with 4-2 victory 
The Irish completed a two­of last season. credited the win to strong Jackson said. "Last night weBy CHRIS KHOREY game sweep of the Falcons "[Those wins were] huge for goaltending and penalty scored on the power play, and 
SportS Writer 

after their 9-4 victory us," Amado said. "We got two killing. Brown started the tonight penalty killing came Thursday. The sweep was the big wins to get to .500 in the game in net after Jordan through." 
Matt Amado scored two goals first for Notre Dame since the CCHA. Now there's a big '3' on Pearce had started the previ­Bowling Green scored only and Dave Brown made 29 Irish beat Michigan Feb. 27 the board in the locker room ous two contests. one power play goal Friday, saves as Notre Dame beat and 28, 2004. It also repre­because we're looking for our "We got great goaltending, despite having nine chances Bowling Green 4-2 at the Joyce sented the squad's first back­third straight win." and sometimes you have to win Center Friday. to-hack wins since November Irish coach Jeff Jackson like that. Tonight was a war," see FALCONS/page 26 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish blast Quincy in final preseason ga111e 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Chris Quinn led Notre Dame with 20 points as one of four Irish players in double figures Friday night. Notre Dame won its second and final home exhi­bition game over Division-II Quincy at the Joyce Center, 80­53. 
Quinn shot 7 -of-13 and made 4-of-7 from 3-point range, help­ing the Irish shake the rust off of a 35.6 shooting percentage per­formance in their first exhibition to end the preseason on a favor­able note. 

"After our See Also first game 
"Isreal leaves

[with] the way we played Irish, set to offensively, 
transfer" 

we've been concentrating page 19 in practice on the offensive end of the floor and getting more movement," 
see QUINCY/page 23 
FOOTBALL 

Weis not overlooking 'Cuse 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
Expect more of the same from Irish coach Charlie Weis this week. 
After exhibiting an ornery mood all last week in an effort to keep his players grounded against 24-point underdog Navy ­a team the Irish have now beaten 42 consecutive times-Weis doesn't antic­ipate his demeanor chang­ing much as Notre Dame 
see SYRACUSE/page 25 


en 
ND CROSS COUNTRY ND VOllEYBAll MEN'S SWIMMING WOMEN'S SWIMMING 

LLI 

Co) Great Lakes Irish down Hoyas Notre Dame 122.5 Notre Dame 163 
IRISHINSIDER 
z Regional 30-13, 30-25, 30-23 to Michigan St. 120.5 Minnesota 135 earn the No.l seed in
::5 

Notre Dalli.~ had little trouble 
Both Irish squads the Big East tourna-No. 18 Irish edge Irish win first home 
with Navy's option attack 
= c:c finish second, qualify ment. Spartans Friday in East meet of Carrie Nixon for NCAAs. Lansing. era. 
Saturday, as the Irish sunk
=: page 21 page 21 page 20 page 20 
thtfMidshipmen 42-21. 







