
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Activities fee increase will face Poonnan soon 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Wriwr 
MPmtwrs of tlw Campus Lifn Counr.il 
(CLC) approwd LIH' proposml $1 !i stu­dent artivitins fee increasn Monday with littll' of thn controvnrsy that stalll~d the Student Senato debate, moving Llw rnsolution orw step closer to tina! University approval. 
Student body prPsident Daw Baron, who rral'tt>d tlw resolution with mmn­bers of llw SPnatn AeadPmie Affairs committee, brought tlw proposal to the CL<: af'I.Pr SPIHttors approwd tho n~solution with a 22-!i m<~jority vote on (kt. 12. 
TIH' proposal. which cu: passed in a 12-1 votP with orw abstention. calls for tlw student activities fnn to be raisnd from $XO to $1J!i li11· tlw next acadmnic yPar. Under thP n•solution's provisions, $1 0 from the irHTI'asn would help fund 

Students revel in near-victory w-hile arrests skyrocket 
Crowd energy drops between USC, BYU 
By KATIE LINHARES 
New' Writer 
Thn intnnsity that pnrrnnated eampus lwforn and during the Ort. 1!i USC ganw subsidnd quiek­ly al'tPr tlw hnartbrPaking loss. lnading many studPnl'> to dnscribe thP atrnosplwrn surrounding Saturday's BYLI gamn as tanw in comparison. 
Snnior Molly Minor l(~lt thn BYU WPnkPrHI "was dnlinitPiy more nwllow." 
'Tvnryorw was on tlwir f(~nt fi1r USC, Ibut! it snmrwd likn a rda­tivPiy typical ganw for BYU," Mirwr said. "Tiw studnnts wnrn 
set: FANS/page I 0 


GuluWalk attracts diverse crovvd 

Police report nwre arrests than usual 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Wrircr 
Two consneutivn honw foot­ball gamn wnnknnds result!HI in an unusually largo ntllnlwr of alcohol-rnlatnd arrnsts. and tlw 0!:1. I !i gamn against Southern California was nspncially problnnwtic. poliee said. 
" T fw U S C ga m n w a s a n nxenptionally busy day for policn activity. and we worn particularly !~oncnrrwd about the lnvnl of intoxication that 
officers  obsnrvnd,"  Nol.rn  
TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer Damn  Sncurity/l'olien  
see ARRESTS/page I 0  

COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Group debates color, design of 'The Shirt' 

By MADDIE HANNA 
Associare News Editor 
They were thousands of miles away from the turmoil, but the 350 Notre Damn students and members of the South Bend com­munity who participatnd in Sunday's GuluWalk on Notre Dame campus showed strong solidarity with tlw children of northern Uganda. 
"This really was a spneial event not only because of how many poople turnnd out to walk, but also because of the divorsity or the crowd," co-organizer and senior Peter Quaranto said. "It was truly a community ovent." 
The Notre Dame/South Bend GuluWalk was just one of more than 43 different GuluWalks that took place last weekend in cities 
see WALK/page 9 By KAREN LANGLEY 
NewsWrirer 
Both the mission or Thn Shirt Project and thn design of its product dominatnd dis­cussion at Monday's Council of Representatives (COH) meeting, as student loaders asked questions and offered input to The Shirt Project's outgoing president, Katie Fox. 
Representatives diseussed the controversy that cloaked this year's Shirt Project, not­ing the constant student dia-Iogue about. tlw 2005 Shirt's gold r.olor. as wnll as criti­cism of' tho Shirt's d!~sign and lit. 

"A lot of pnopln didn't like it lwcausn thny thought. it was not Notre Damn gold." Judieial Council president Jamns Lnito said. 
For many students, an unf'avorabln vinw of' thn Shirt's dnsign was 1wnn morn significant, LLlito S(tid. 
"Students want to buy thn Shirt, but if it has sonwthing on it they don't want. then they won't buy it," he said. 
see COR/page 4

Building as they show solidarity with children in Uganda. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, October 25, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 

I vvant scary 
I want blood. Violence. Ghosts, ghouls, monsters. I want something scary. And not roommate walking out of shower naked scary. I mean I Ialloween scary. 
It's a shame that scary has lost much of its meaning in modern times. A 
Mark
week before 
Bemenderfer
Halloween, we have "The Fog" and "Doom" in the­
Assistant
aters. Both come 
Scene Editor 
from a strong her­itage in the realm of horror, and yet these recent incarna­tions are as dead in horror as a drug­dealing, promiscuous teen in a slasher film. In short, they're pretty dead. 
Before that, there was "House of Wax" and 'The Cave," among others. None of the aforementioned movies had an inch of creativity in them, ranging from the craptastic to eye-bleedingly bad. Some have been so horrendous, I've found myself planning school assignments while sitting in the theater. There is a redeeming quality in the cheese factor, but one can only take so much of that. Eventually a good movie becomes neces­sary for mental well being, or you fmd yourself looking at "Gigli" or Will Ferrell movies in the rental aisle. 
Horror genres are being as mercilessly slaughtered as the victims found within. Hollywood has managed to kill the zom­bies, something not many have accom­plished. They no longer have the same psychological punch they once did. Slashers are also dying a painful death. I low many dille rent masks can essential­ly the same killer wear? 
Beyond that, praetieally every horror movie in recent years has been either a remake or sequel. Where's the creativi­ty? For something to be truly frightening, it has to reflect the unknown. 
No horror movie in recent history has bmm truly cmative or original. Every other movie features some vengeful ghost with drippy hair, some deformed guy with a knife or some slimy creature hungry for a little midnight snack. They aren't scary anymore. Hollywood has managed to milk these genres employing cheap scares and overworked CGI, but those won't last. 
Developers have become aware of this creative stagnation in the genre, too. It has led to the creation of movies that no longer take themselves seriously, such as "Shaun of the Dead" and "Scary Movie." Independent effort.<; like "Cabin Fever" and "Dead and Breakfast" have also reflected this growing satire. 
The horror industry is tired. When Jason is going to see his twelfth movie, and a possible thirteenth, it becomes obvious that things need to change. The viewer needs to stop going to see these movies, because a<> long a'l they make money they will continue to be made. Truly original, creative works will not be made when they have established labeL<; to contend with. Hollywood is afraid of taking risks, and unless they find a rea­son to, they won't. 
So this Halloween season, instead of going out to see the latest schlock Hollywood has put out, go to the video store and cheek the library of horror there. Look up John Carpenter, Wes Craven, Sam Raimi or one of the older masters of horror. If all else fails, there's always reality television. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at 
mbemende@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 63I-454 I so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE MOST EXCITING PART OF YOUR FALL BREAK? 






Melissa Maxwell Geoff Bennett Alvin Adjei Vince Cano Mary Saxer Andrew Piotrowski 
freshman junior freshman sophomore freshman freshman McGlinn Carroll Sarin Morrissey Lewis Morrissey 
"Getting "Watching the "Visiting a new "Not eating "Going back "Driving a car. , elbowed in the Astros make it state -Iowa!" dining hall home and face by a lady to the World food., visiting my best 
in the airplane., Series., friend and boyfriend. '' 
Man wades naked above Niagara Falls rapids 
NIAGARA FALLS, N.Y.-A Chinese performance artist appeared in city court Monday for wading naked into the rapids above Niagara Falls as part of a stunt that went wrong. 
lie Yun Chang, 38, of Beijing was charged with disorderly conduct and exposing himself in public, both violations, after being arrested by Niagara Park Police Saturday afternoon. 
He was ordered to return to court Nov. 4. 
Police said the man stripped off his clothes and waded to within 40 to 50 a downstairs neighbor went upstairs to complain about the noise. 


The injured were taken to Hartford and St. Francis hospitals, where they were treated for stab wounds to their faces and necks. All were later released. 
Police said they received several 911 calls around 
12:45 a.m. They arrived at a two-family home on Crosby Street to find dozens of people running around in a thunderstorm. Some were screaming and bleeding. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
yards of the brink of the falls. He tried anchoring himself with a rope to an unknown object, intending to stay in the water for 24 hours, but the knot came loose and so he began mak­ing his way back to shore. 
A tourist, concerned the man was attempting suicide, called park police, who took him out of the water. 
Six stabbed at 1-year­old's birthday party 
EAST HARTFORD, Conn. -Six people were stabbed early Sunday during a melee at a 1-year-old's birthday party, police said. It apparently started when 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY c:::: 
LLI :I: 
=t 

LLI 
3: 
...1 
c:c 

(.) 

.... 0 HIGH 52 HIGH 40 HIGH 51 HIGH 52 LOW 40 LOW 37 LOW 38 LOW 32 IN BRIEF 
A Catholic Relief Services information session on sum­mer internships, fellowships and volunteer opportunities will take place from 4:15 to 
5:30 p.m. tonight in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. 
The Notre Dame Glee Club Fall Concert will take place at 8 p.m. Friday in Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The concert is presented by the Department of Music. Tickets are $3 for students, fac­ulty, staff and senior citizens. Call 574-631-2800 or visit http://performingarts.nd.edu to purchase tickets. 
Ralph Wood, Baylor University professor of theology and literature, will give a lec­ture entitled "J.R.R. Tolkien: A Catholic Writer for Our Uncatholic Age"at 7:30 p.m. tonight in room 138 DeBartolo. 
Archbishop J. Michael Miller, secretary of the Vatican's Congregation for Catholic Education, will present the 2005 Terrence Keeley Vatican Lecture at 8 p.m. Oct. 31 in the Ilesburgh Center auditorium. 
Former Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz will speak on Dec. 15 at Goddard Auditorium on Earlham College's campus. The event is presented by Wernle Children's Home of Richmond, Ind., a nonprofit behavioral healtheare facility. Tickets are $40. For tickets or more information call Todd Knight at (765) 939-4576. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

(f 
HIGH 53 HIGH 55 LOW 32 LOW 34 
Atlanta 56 I 40 Bos~on 51 I ~3 Chicago 53 I .38 Denver 67 I 44 Houston 73 I 45 Los Angeles 61 1 55 Minneapolis 52 1 36 New York 55 I 43 Philadelphia 54 I 43 Phoemx 85 I 62 Seattle 62 I 49 St. Louis 56 1 35 Tampa 70 1 52 Washington 50 1 42 
Tuesday, October 2'5, 200'5 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group reflects on discussion "With Board of Trustees 
Hy ALLISON RIDER 
Nt·w, Writ<"r 
StudPnt govPrnnH•nt officers who attPIHlnd Saint Mary's Board of Trusti'PS rrrnntings last wnnk sharPd tlwir most significant topics of discussion with tlw Board of Covnrnance Monday. 
Tlw sulwommittPP nwl'tings forusnd on issuPs including tlw nnw acadnmic building, l"ampus sncurity and a lack of studPnt body, participants dent lifo, educa-tion and intnrnsting discussions." said. enrollment rnanagemnnt. A significant chango to thn 


TrustPP mPmlwrs arrivPd on "!Student participants! Board of Trustees in rPiation campus Wndnnsday for the brought input to tlw discus­to tho stud11nt body was tlw final Trustees meeting of tlw sion as nended, and all of the addition of th11 Student ynar, Student Trustee .Jill students lwlp11d me provide an DivP.rsity Board (SDB) presi­Vlasnk said, and standing update at the Student Life dent as an active member on committne meetings wnrn meeting about major events tho committfH~ lnvPI. underway Thursday. The full that have happened since the "In the past, the SI>B prPsi­Board of Trustees meeting start of the school year," dent has been invited as a took place Friday. Vlasek said. "Many commit­guest, but they didn't have a 
Nine stud11nt governnwnt tees did not necessarily have vote, and now she sits on the ofl"icers participated in vari­action items since it was so committee as a member," stu­ous subcommittne meetings early in the year, so we mainly dent body president Kellye focusing on topics such as stu-w11re participating in some Mitros said. 

f< US.Cellular 
We conned with you~ 





Now, 

all your incoming calls can be free. 
SIJB prnsidenl Amanda Shropshire was a mPmlwr of the inaugural ConllniltP(' on Enrollment ManagemPnt. Discussion focused on the College's continuing struggle with low nnrollnwnt nurnbPrs, as well as a lack or diversity in thn student body, Shropshire said. 
"!Vice Prnsidnnt for Enrollnwnt Management Dan Meyerl gavn a wholn IHJwer point presentation," Shropshire said. "We only had one I incoming! Al"rican­Amnrican student this ynar, so that was a big d11al. Thorn is one African-American woman in thn lirst ynar class." 
Traditionally, thn Saint Mary's admissions officn has not !wavily rncruitnd minori­ties, Shropshirn said. But slw also said Trustnes at the mnet­ing voii"Ml strong support for incn1asing minority nnroll­mnnt. 
M i t r o s s at i n o n tlw Committee on Student LifP snssion. 
"Thn St.udnnt Lil"n nwnting was an ovnrall revinw of what. sncurity does for us," Mitros said. 
l>irnct.or of Snrurity Davn Chapman and security olTicer Patty HoiPns gavP a dl'tai!Pd prPsPntation about the servie­ns campus security offprs stu­dPnts, Mitros said. They slwwPd Trustees SOIII(' of thP tools availabiP to lu•lp kPPp tlwmsPivns safP such as rapP whistles, angel stirks and des­ignatPd driver hands. 
Discussion among !·:duration (~omrnitli'P nu•mlwrs forusPd on thl' ColiPgP's upcoming rParct'Pdidat.ion and on l"ulurP cons I rue I ion at I. hi' coll(•gf', studPnt body vicP prPsidPnl Susan Ml"llduiT said. 
"WP talkPd aboul tlw Ili'W aradPmic building, whirh is duP to opPn in 200S, and PVPrything is on sdH•duiP," McllduiT said. "HvPry dPpart­lliPnt PXI"Ppl math and Pdtwa­tion is going to tiH• IH'W build­ing." 
A full rPport of IIH' Board of T r u s t P e s nH1 Pl.i n g s w i II hP rnlnasPd laiPr this WPPk, VlasPk said. 
In Other BOG News 
+ 
Thn Saint Mary's rPsi­dPnen halls will host trirk-or­t I'(' at i n g f r 0 Ill 7 t0 I) p . Ill . Sunday, rPsidPJH"P hall associ­ation prnsidcmt .lar.kil' Wright said. 

+ 
CoiiPgP l')'(~sidPnt Carol M() () IW y w i II nw (' t w i l h s tII ­dnnts in an informal gatlwring from !) to 7 p.m Sunday in I.PMans llall. 


Contact Allison Rider at ariderO1@saintmarys.edu 

Please recycle The Observer. 
Otler vnlld oo two·vear service agreement on local and regional plans ot $39.95 Q( hlgl1er. All seNica agreements subject toM early termination fee. Credit apprmt reQUired. $30 activation fee. $15 equipment change lee. nwnJng clklHit!S. foos. SI.Ktharges, ovemoo cllaroes and taxes apply. SO.!l6 Regulatory Cost necovery Fee applies. Tl~s Is not atax Q( govemment·reQUired charge. Local netwQrk coverage and mliabllity may vary. Usage rwnd· ed up to lhe ne>d full miiiUte. USe of servk:e constlMes acceptance of our terms and condrtions. UnllmHed Night and Weekend Minutes valid Monday U1rotJgll Friday 7:00pm. to 6.59 am. and all day SatlJrday and Sunday. N~Jilt and Wooken<l M11111tos rue avaik1ble 111 lOCal calling area only. Local calllnCJ area d1ffers fmm natiOnal calling area. Unlimited CALL ME'" Minutes are not deductad from pact<age m111utes and are only avmk1ble when receJV· 1110 .,;)!Is 111 your IOCHI calllnq area. t.ocai call1ng area dilfem from natiOnal calling arl!<l. Mobile Messaging: Users must 11e '"their digitullncal calling area for secv~e to work. Functionality may depend on ot11er earner's networks anti pi"OnCS U.S. Celh>ar <IOes not guarMtoo message det1very or llnmhness. fSO·character lhnrt per message for te>d llleSS3!JinQ. U.S. Cellular not respollS!ble fOr content of messages. Acharge of IOc per lllrtgolng massage apptle8 ,f no mes5aiJing pncl!age IS·selettcd Q( exiSting !XlCk~ge Hm1t Is exceeded. By using US. Celkilar's MObile Messaging you agree to 11e bo!lnd lly all terms and oondltl<lns viewable at www.uscellular.conVMessaglngterms. Plch1re Messaging Ofily avn1lable measyerJge '' coverage area (see rots and mop sltoot tor deta11$). You may 11e charged for piCture mess.1oes sent from i\J\11 phone. even 11 not delivered to the Intended recipient due to system •• oompaiii!Jhty 1ssue~. You Will notlle cllarged fQ( picture messages sent to your phone. U.S. Cellt>ru Is not respons11Jfe fQ( content of picMes. easyroge Is the propnetary ma11< 01 U~>ted Sillies Cellular Cor]Joratoo. Use of the AOl Instant Mossongor·· service nXJbile appl1cU«on reql\lres easyedge data serv1ces. TI1e AOl' Instant Messenger·• sefvlce Free Trial shall not f!.\lceed lllQ(e than one full day"s time. Other res!Ticti<JilS apply. See stor• for <teta11• Lmuted 11ma offer •02005 U.S.Cellular Clllj)OraliOO CO 20051lef Jam Mobile an<! AG lntamctlve are tmdernar!<s and se!VIce mar1<s of U1e1r respectNe owners. All nQhts reserved. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 25, 2005 

Speaker addresses hun1an rights 
By NICOLE ZOOK Assistant News Editor 
If it takes a truly global citizen to understand the needs of peo­ple around the world, then Hannah Wu was the perfect citi­zen to discuss "A Journey to Human Rights" Monday after­noon. 
Wu, the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 2005 Distinguished Alumni Award­winner, grew up in northern China, studied in the United States, worked in Cambodia and currently resides in Switzerland. 
A human rights specialist who has worked for 11 years doing technieal and field operations for the United Nations, Wu has served in the omce of the High Commissioner-for Human Rights in Geneva since 1994. She dis­cussed her work with the U.N. with approximately 20 students and faculty members in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
"I really started with amazing tasks right away," she said. "Throughout these diverse assignments through the ofTice, it's been important to me to ask, 'Did I make a difference?"' 
Some of the "humbling" chal­lenges Wu has faced include helping and educating countries to invest resources through the 
U.N. Human Rights Program and developing training at the National Police Academy in Cambodia, where she served as the District Electoral Supervisor for the U.N. 
Wu's work has taken her to a wide range of countries across the globe, including Nepal, Papua its wealth, 10 percent of its resi­New Guinea, Pakistan, South dents live under the poverty line. Africa, Tajikistan and the In France, Parliament is com­Philippines. posed of only 12 percent women. 
Wu called human rights a Sweden "prides itself on its "misunderstood" and "charged" human rights record" but is in subject and said she believes breach of treaties for mistreat­education about human rights ment of terrorists. and the foreign environments is "Each country has its own bag­key to understanding and gage and unique set of chal­advancing human lenges," she said. rights. Wu said she 
"The distance in "Each country has believes the U.N. making [human its own baggage has made great 
rights] a part of strides towards
and unique set of
ordinary people's bettering human lives is still far," challenges.,, rights globally. she said. "For me, "I think human it's important to rights is so com­
Hannah Wu
remember that plex a subject," 
most people don't Distinguished Alumna she said. "It has to 
live in a postcard kind of environment." 
Wu said the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, written in 1948, was a big step in furthering human rights and ensuring rights like privacy, abili­ty to leave one's country, owner­ship of property and freedom. 
"It's about the government actually taking measures to translate fhuman rights] into reality for people," she said. 
Wu said the document raises the "question fundamental to human rights work -who are the people needing the most pro­tection?" She stressed the need to look at each individual country and assess the people's needs, including the marginalized, pris­oners and indigenous peoples. 
Wu said the topic of human rights is relevant to all countries and that all countries have viola­tions. For example, she said while Switzerland is known for 
be looked at with a scope. I'm quite proud of the achievements of the U.N. over the last 60 years." 
The organization recently made an "unprecedented" com­mitment to double the human rights budget during the next five years. Wu said the "assistance and supervision" of the United Nations will advance human rights greatly in that time. 
However, Wu also said human rights starts on a small scale, dealing with others tolerantly on a regular basis -a concept she said she learned in her days at Notre Dame. 
"I didn't realize what [the Peace Institute] meant when I was in it -tolerance, dealing with each other," she said. "It's much more than just a diploma." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 
COR 

continued from page 1 
"Design is more important than color." 
Keough senator Rob Lindley, Jr. took an opposing view, say­ing he felt the need for an apparently unified student body trumped the importance of the Shirt's look. 
"I didn't have a problem with the gold color," he said. "I just thought that the Shirt was meant to be something that would unite us to cheer on sporting teams and support the good of the [Shirt] Charity Fund." 
Half of The Shirt's profits go to The Shirt Charity Fund, while the other half supple­ments the student activities fees that support Student Union clubs and organizations. 
The Shirt Charity Fund, man­aged by the student-run Financial Management Board, supports students who need help paying unexpected med­ical bills and contributes to the Rector Fund, a collection to which rectors can apply to help students with financial need participate in University activi­ties. 
Fox echoed Lindley's call for unity when Leito asked her about the goals of The Shirt Project. 
"The most important thing is to unify the entire Notre Dame community behind the football team and the cause," she said. "That's something that is dis­tinct about Notre Dame, that the .~ommunity is so passion­ate. 
Despite student criticism, the 2005 Shirt boasts sales that 
already have surpassed the total sales of the 2004 Shirt. 
Before Saturday's BYU game, 75,000 Shirts had been sold, an increase of 20,000 Shirts sold compared to the 2004 total sales, Fox said. 
The 2005 Shirt Project also has surpassed its annual goal of $200,000 profit, having made $350,000 prior to the BYU game weekend. 
Fox said the change in color in this year's Shirt is far from unprecedented. 
"In the 16-year history of the project, color change has been frequent," she said. "With Tyrone Willingham's selection came the change to green. We felt it was time for a new color. The new coach was a catalyst." 
O'Neill senator Steve Tortorello suggested poor stu­dent response to the gold color could be attributed to simple resistance to change. 
"Disunity is the problem, not with the color change but with a very stubborn class," Tortorello said. "When you look at the student section, the freshman are all gold, the sophomores are all gold, the juniors are sort of gold, and the seniors are like 'whatever."' 
In other COR news: 
+Shannon McManus, the Tri-Cam pus Representative on St. Mary's College Board of Governance, was approved without opposition as non-vot­ing member of the Council of Hepresentatives. 
As Tri-Campus Hepr-esenta­tive, McManus attends meet­ings at Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary's. 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, October 25, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Brazilians vote against gun control 
HIO DE .JANEIHO-Brazilians struck down a proposal to ban thn saln of guns in a national rnferendum, rejecting a bid to stem one of thn world's highest firearm murder ratns in a dnbatn that mirrored the gun eon­trol hattln in tlw Unitnd States. 
Brazil has l00 million fnwnr citizens than thn Unitnd Statns, but a staggering 25 per­cent morn gun dnaths at nnarly 40,000 a ynar. While supportnrs arguPd gun control was thn bnst way to sta.neh the violenee, opporwnts playnd on Brazilians' fears that tlw polien can't protnct tlwm in the campaign lnading up to Sunday's vote. 
"l don't lik1~ pnopln walking around armed. But sinrn all the bandits havn guns, you need to havn a gun at hornn," said taxi driver \1ohamnwd Os1~i. who votml against thn ban. 
Mexico names presidental candidate 
Mt·:xu:o CITY-Mnxieo's ruling party on Sunday rhosn the nation's former erwrgy sncr1•tary as its candidate for presidtmtial nlndions rwxt .July, all but sntting tlw slatn of major candidatns that will compete in the hist.orie votn. ollidals said. 
Fnlipn Caldnron won about 5H p1m~1mt of thn votn in tlw last of three rngional votes, giving him 52 pnrcnnt of the cumulativn vote -nnough to avoid a runofl'-after a bitter National Action Party primary fought bntwnnn three formnr Cabinet members in PrPsid1mt Vienntn Fox's center-right govern­nwnt. 
Mnxiran law prnventnd Fox from running again. 

Wilma causes destruction in Cuba 
IIAVANA -Military divers usml inf1atabln ral'ts to rnscun nnarly 250 people from l'loodnd homns Monday, after llurricane Wilma drovn tlw ocmtn ovnr llavana's sea­wall and gushnd watnr into coastal neigh­borhoods of aging buildings. 
Thnre Wl~rP no immndiatn rnports of casual­tins on the island Monday, although tornados spun ofT by thn storm ovM the weekend injurnd six pnople in rural areas. Nnarly 
700.000 pnopln wnrn evacuated across Cuba's west in recent days as Wilma approadwd. tlw government said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. may have tortured 21 prisoners 
WASIIINGTON -At least 21 detainees who dind whiln bning held in U.S. custody in Iraq and Afghanistan were killed, many during or after interrogations, according to an analysis of I>el'ensn Department data by the American Civil Liberties Union. 
Thn analysis, releasnd Monday, looked at 44 deaths deseribl'd in records obtained by the ACI.U. 01' those, the group character­ized 21 as homieidns, and said at least night resultnd from abusive techniques by military or intelligence officers, such as strangulation or "blunt force injuries," as notnd in the autopsy reports. 



Judge validates Bush plot confession 
AI.EXANDHIA -A federal judge ruled Monday that prosecutors can use a confes­sion by a man charged with joining al­<}aida and plotting to assassinate President Bush, despite del'enst~ elaims that the eon­f'nssion was obtainnd through torture. 
Thn ruling came after a six-day hearing in which Ahmed Omar Abu Ali testified that Saudi Arabian security officers whipped his baek. kieked him in thn stomaeh and puliPd on his beard to obtain a confession. 
U.S. I>istriet .Judge (ierald Bruen Lee issund a orw-page ruling and said he would • explain his reasoning in a forthcoming order. 

Hurricane Wilma kills six in Florida 
Estimated losses from $2 to $9 billion; death toll for hurricane season reaches 25 
Associated Press  
FORT I.AUDEHDALE - 
Uurrieane Wilma knifed  
through Florida with  
winds up to 125 mph  
Monday, shattering win­ 
dows in skyserapers, peel­ 
ing away roof's and knock­ 
ing out power to 6 million  
peopln, with still a month  
left to go in the busiest  
Atlantic storm season on  
record.  
At least six deaths were  
blamed on the hurrieano  
in Florida, bringing the  
toll from the storm's  
march through thn tropies  
to 25.  
After a slow. weeklong  
journey that saw It pound  
Mexieo's Yucatan  
Peninsula for two days,  
Wilma made a rnercil'ully  
swift seven-hour dash  
across lower Florida, from  
its southwestern cornnr to  
heavily populated Miami,  
Fort Laudnrdale and West  
Palm Beach on the  
Atlantic coast.  
"We have been huddled  
in the living room trying  
to stay away f'rom the  
windows. It got pretty vio­ 
lent there for a while,"  
said 25-year-old Eddie  
Kenny, who was at his  
par·ents' home in  
Plantation near Fort  
Lauderdale. "We have Beatrice Gonzalez, 23, covers the body of a dead woman In Immokalee, Fla., after  
trees down all over the Hurricane Wilma passed through the area.  
place and two fences have  
been totally demolished,  parts of Key West in  powerful enough to flatten  Naples and 3 to Fort  
crushed, gone."  chest-high water, and U.S.  trens, flood streets, break  Laudnrdale. The f'looding  
The insurance industry  1, the only highway to the  water mains, knoen down  could well have bnnn  
estimated insured losses  mainland, was flooded.  signs, turn debris into  worse if' the storm had lin­ 
in Florida at anywhere  "A buneh of us that are  missiles and light up the  gernd over thn state  
from $2 billion to $9 bil­ the old-time Key Westers  sky with the blue-green  instead or racing straight  
lion. Of'ficials said it was  are kind of waking up this  flash of popping trans­ through. National  
the most damaging storm  morning, going, 'Well,  formers.  llurrieann Center nwtnor­ 
to hit the Fort Laudnrdale  maybe I should have paid  By early afternoon,  ologist Mark Mcinerney  
area sinee 1950.  a little more attention,"'  Wilma had swirled out  said.  
The 21st storm of the  said restaurant owner  into the open Atlantic,  "There's really no good  
2005 season -and the  Amy Culver-Aversa,  back up to 115-mph  scnnario for a hurricane.  
eighth hurricane to hit  among the 90 percent of  Category 3 strength but  .Just a lesser of two evils,"  
Florida in 15 months­ Key West residents who  on a course unlikely to  he said.  
howled ashore around  ehose to ignore the fourth  have mueh effect on the  More than onn-third of  
daybreak just south of  mandatory evacuation  East Coast. Forecasters  the state's residents lost  
Mareo Island as a  order this year.  said it would stay well off­ power. Florida Pownr &.  
Category 3, cutting elec­ As it moved across the  shore.  Light, the statn's biggest  
tricity to the entire  state, Wilma weakened to  Wilma brought 8 inches  utility, said it could take  
Florida Keys. A tidal surge  a Category 2 with winds of  of rain to Miami-Dadn  weeks to restore elnctrid­ 
of up to 9 feet swamped  105 mph. But it was still  County, nearly 6 1/2 to  ty to nveryone.  

IRAQ 

Bombs explode near hotel, 12 dead 
nalists escaped without serious injury sncurity forces at a vulnerable 
Associated Press 
but at least a half-dozen passers-by moment when they might have been 
BAGHDAD -A white ear sped up to were killed. less attentive. the thiek wall proteeting the Palestine The deafening attack sent up a giant Iraq's national seeurity adviser, Hotel and exploded, blasting out a sec­cloud of smoke and debris over cen­Mouwafak al-Rubaie, said the attack tion of the concrete. Within minutes, tral Baghdad, and ears swerved wildly -which appeared wnll plannnd ­suidde bombers in two other vehicles on a roundabout to escape the explo­was a "very dear" nfl'ort to take ovnr tried to get through the breach. sions. Inside the 19-story hotel, the the hotel and grab foreign and Arab 
One of them, a cement truck, made foree of the blasts triggered confusion journalists as hostages. lin ofl'ernd no it -but apparently becamn stuck and and panic, shattered glass, tore pic­evidtmce to support the claim. blew up after a U.S. soldier opened tures oil' walls and brought down light Deputy Interior Minister llussnin fire on it. Had the driver traveled 20 fixtures and ceilings. Kamal disputnd the kidnapping thnory. or :~o yards farther and detonated the The attack happened at dusk just as "There is no evidencn to support bomb at the hotel entrance, the attack Iraqis would have been breaking the this," Kamal said. "This is just an could have killed many people inside daylong fast they observe during the unlikely assumption. If' that worn the the Palestine, where l'omign journal­holy month of Hamadan and eating ease, thnn there would have bnnn gun­ists and eontractors arn based. their first meal, called lftar. It could mnn with the suidde bombers. Thnrn 
As it was, American troops and jour-have been an effort to catch Iraqi wnre no gunmen." 


page 6 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, Octoboer 25, 2005 
Mark Stolze: Early Riser Rookie Surfer Professional Rocker* Is Welcome Here 
Your life. You can bring it with you. Learn more about Mark and tell us more about you visit pwc.com/bringit 
*connectedthinking 
ltl 2005 Pricewa1erhouseCoopers LLP. All rights reserved. •Price>.va1erhouseCoopers" refers to Pricewalerhous£.-Goopers LLP Ia Delaware limMd !lability pa<1nership) or, as the con1ext """lUll'~. WI&' m~ finns of Prir;ewoterhooseCoopers lntemationall.lm1ted, each oi which is a r.eparate and independent entrty. ·connectedthink:ng is a tr?.demark ot Pric.ewatel'hour.eC.oopers tLP IUS!-\lift ar,;, provd to t>e 'lfl Affirmative Action and Equ::d Opportunity Employer. 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Tuesday, October 25, 2005 
page 7 


Dow 
10,385.00 +1.66
}ones 
0,.'* Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2.S23 129 2,202,248,140
J1' 

AMEX  1,621.17  +23.18  
NASDAQ  2,115.X3  +33.62  
NYSf  7,374.53  +120.04  
S&PSOO  1,199.3X  +19.79  
NIKKfi(Tokyo)  13,330.74  +224.56  
FTSf IOO(London) 5,207. 60  +65.50  

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ)  + 1.58  +0.61  39.16  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  +4.57  +0.56  12.82  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.22  -0.05  23.10  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  + 1.29  +0.32  25.10  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  +0.76  +0.13  17.16  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  + 1.11  +0.51  46.60  
I0-YEAR NOTE  + 1.28  +0.56  44.46  
5-YEAR NOTE  + 1.31  +0.56  43.15  
3-MONTH BILL  0.00  0.00  37.65  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.31  60.32  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -2.10  467.00  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -0.45  87.75  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  115.4350  
EURO  0.8361  
POUND  0.5660  
CANADIAN$  1.1872  

IN BRIEF 
Indiana drug company reports profits 
INDIANAPOLIS -Drug maker Eli Lilly &. Co. said Thursday its third-quarter profit rosn 5 JWrcenl on strong sales of newnr drugs and diabetes products, which helped ol'f'sd laekluslnr growth of its blockbuster anti-psydwlic drug Zypwxa. 
Nnt in!'omn grew to $794.4 million, or 7:{ cPnls per share. from $75G.2 million, or h<J n~nts JH'r share. a year ago. Hevnnue rose 10 pPr!'enl to $3.60 billion !'rom $3.2H billion last ynar. lnd by a 13 percm1t surgn in sales ol' dialwtns products to $(,fi2.H million. 
Analysts survPy«Hl by Thomson Financial PXJH'!'lPd J.illy to post Parnings of' 71 cnnts Jlf'r shan~ on rf'VPnUP of' $:th2 billion. 
"WP an~ piPasPd that tlw products in our pipPiirw !'ontinuP to progrnss through dlwPI­opnwnt whiln at tlw sanw limn our newPr products grow as a pPrCIH1lagn of' our total sa!Ps," l.illy ChiP!' l·:xnc:utivn Sidrwy Taund said in a stalPlliPnl. 
Lilly's Pight rwwPr drugs accountnd for IH (Jf'r('f'nt or total salns, comparnd to 12 pnr­('f'nl during llw sanw pnriod last yPar. 

New York crude oils slips after Wilma 
NI~W YOHK-Oil priePs f'IHlml mod(~ratnly lowPr Monday. as a post-llurri!'arw Wilma snll-oiT was tPlllpPrnd by supportivn le(:hnkal signals. 
Wilma madn landl'all in southwnstnrn (."lorida narly Monday. missing vulnnrabln nrwrgy rnsourcns in t.lrP Gull' of' Mexico and sPnding priens sharply lower in early trading. 
But as futurns pricns tumbled under $60 and thrnaterwd to break $59, bargain huntnrs jumped in, bidding up futurns, tradPrs and analysts said. 
"A lot of people sne poor fundamentals and an~ scared by tlw upcoming winter," said Kyle Cooper, a llouston based ennrgy analyst with Citigroup. "On the llip side, if you arn bullish. you look at weak dmnand numbers and inventories whieh are adnquatn." 
Thn front-month Dnenmber erudn futures eontraet on the Nnw York Mercantile l·:xehang«~ dosed down ;{I cents to $60.20 a barnll. 
l'etrolllUm products futurns posted bigger losses, with hnating oil futures for November dosing down 6.92 cents at $1.79 a gallon. 
Delphi offers unions new contracts 
Bankrupt corporation cuts wages, benefits; Unions note CEO's $3 million bonus 
Associated Press  
DETHOIT -Delphi Corp.  
providnd the United Auto  
Workers and other unions  
with proposed new eon­ 
tracts Friday that could  
include cuts in wages and  
bennl'its. The plan, whieh  
remains under wraps, was  
blastnd by union lnadnrs.  
If' Delphi and its unions  
fail to mach an agreement  
on new contracts by mid­ 
December. the auto suppli­ 
er. which filed for bank­ 
ruptcy protection earlier  
this month, has asked a  
fnderal eourt to void its  
existing contraets.  
UAW Prnsident Ron  
Gnttell'inger and Vice  
President Hiehard  
Shomnaker said the propos­ 
al "displays a total lack of  
concern about the impact it  
would have on Delphi  
worknrs. their families,  
tlwir communities and our  
nation."  
Tlw plan "is designed to  
hasten tho dismantling of  
America's middle class by·  
importing Third World  
wages to the United States,"  
thny said in a statement.  
A spokeswoman for the  
Troy-based company said  
the company had no com­ 
ment on the proposals.  
.Judge Hobert Drain of the AP  
U.S. Bankruptcy Court of United Auto Workers President Ron Gettelfinger, right, stands with UAW VIce  
the Southern District of President Richard Shoemaker as he addresses the media during a news conference.  
Nnw York has granted  
Delphi's request to keep  rejnetnd that. Delphi  llfl exprPssed optimism that  Gnttnll'ingnr said it's too  
thmn confidp,ntial.  Chairman and CEO Hobert  an agreement could be  narly to say whet.lwr t.hn  
Most of Delphi's :~o.ooo  S. "Stnve" Miller said he  reached by mid-Deemnbnr.  union will eonsidnr a strike.  
U.S. hourly workers are  understands workers are  "I am dealing with a very  Thn union has nxpressnd  
represented by the UAW,  angry, but the eompany is  intnlligent, eompp,tent union  anger ovnr Dnlphi's nxnnr­ 
although some are reprp,­ paying hourly workPrs two  leadership. They know  tivn eomtwnsat.ion lnvnls,  
snntnd by other unions such  to three times more than its  what has to be donn, and I  including Mill1w's $:l million  
as thn International Union  competitors.  think at the end of tho day  signing bonus.  
of Elnetrieal Workers.  Miller dedinnd to provide  we will get thern." lw said.  "Thn propos1J,I faithfully  
Bnfore it liled for bank­ specifies on the now pro­ If the contracts are void­ rnllnds a vision of Anwri<:a  
ruptcy protection, Dnl phi  posals Thursday but said  Pd. a court then could  in whkh an nlitn few livn in  
sought to cut UAW wagp,s  thny would include "fairly  imposn nPw contracts in t.lw  luxury while everyone (~lsn  
and bennl'its, which arP  dramatic ehangos to the  l'irst part of nnxt ynar.  struggles to makP nnds  
worth $65 an hour, by  wagns and bonnlits" similar  Delphi workers could also  nwnt." Cl'ttPII'ingnr and  
about (,0 pnrcnnt. Tho UAW  to those pnwiously outlined.  go on strike.  Shoemaker said.  



Wal-Mart yields to public pressure 
Associated Press push for Christmas and year-end Tlw move conws as Wai-Ma rt has 
sales." Flickinger said. lin said daily bonn under increasing criticism f(u· not 
SI'HINGFIELD -Wal-Mart Stc>n~s sales arn now about $7GO million. oiTnring lwalth <'.oVPrage to etwugh Inc. announced moro aflilrdablo health Pressure on Wai-Mart has mounted workers and l'or its high costs to can~ for some ol' its workers Monday in as groups from unions to the Sierra employnns l'or the insurarH:e. whir.h tho latnst shot in a battle with critics ((Jr Club to tlw National Organization of' ineludn high dnduetihles. Fnwnr than thn !warts of consumers. Tho move by Women have linked up, creating two hall' ol' Wai-Mart's nmployet~s arn eov­t.he world's largest retailer comes as the nnw campaign organizations this year, nrml by thn company lwalth caw plan. crueial holiday sales season approach­Wake-Up Wai-Mart and Wai-Mart comparnd to HO pnn:nnt at rival Costr.o es. Watch. Wholnsaln Corp. 
Analysts say Wai-Mart nends to add "Whom thnre is pressure thflm is Wai-Mart's ('.ritics havn said some about $2GO million a day in sales dur­ehange, universally," said Hiehard eompany workers haw had to rt~ly on ing thn holiday season to meet earnings llastings, senior rPtail analyst at government-funded programs to pay 
targets and cannot afford to lose Bnrnard Sands in Nnw York. for health earn, an issue that has ground to an increasingly united front Wai-Mart says it is not responding to spurred l'mlnral legislation ainwd at of opponents who want eonsumPrs to outsidP critics but rather to demand prnssuring tlw retailer to be morn gen­shun the diseountnr until it changes its from its employees, or associates in erous. ways. Wai-Mart parlance, by launching a plan Compared to Wai-Mart's eurrnnt 
"Consumers increasingly havn a eon­to lower health insurancn pn~miums. plan. monthly premiums umler thn nnw science and are increasingly shifting to allowing some to buy coverage for as plan would require workers to pay compP-titors," said Burt Flickinger, littiP as $11 per month. between 40 pereent and 60 pnrennt managing director of Strategic Wal-Mart spokesman Dan Fogleman less. The plan would havn a $1,000 Marketing. would not say how much the plan deductible but would allow individuals 
"It is critical for Wai-Mart to start would eost thP Bentonville, Ark.-based tlm~n doctor visilc.; lwforn having to pay doing a billion dollars a day in sales company, which has 1.2 million domPs­tlw deduetibh~. aecording to Thn Nnw starting on Black Friday, the day after tic employees. The plan is to go into York Times, which first reportml on tlw Thanksgiving, which is the big 30-day ell'net in 2006. plan. 
---~------·--.
------~--­

page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, October 25, 2005 
Sound a music major can love. At a price a finance major can appreciate. 
Bose® sound for the way you listen. 
Whether it's music 
on your iPod~ your 
computer or MP3 CDs ­
there's a Bose system for 
the way you listen. Get 
more of the passion of a 
guitar solo and the pulse 
of the rhythm section -· 
even at full volume. 
Special savings and student discounts. 
These systems are 
factory-renewed 
products that are 
available at a reduced 
price. Each factory­
renewed product has been 

Bose SoundDock™ digital 
re-tested, meets our strict 


music system. Enjoy Bose" 
quality standards and

sound in your room while charging your iPod, iPod 
comes with a full warranty. mini or iPod photo. Louis 
Combine that with a 

Ramirez of The Washington 
student-only discount,

Post says it "delivers crisp, room-filling sound with nice and you can get bonus bass that doesn't distort at savings on Bose sound. high volume." 

Bose Companion@ 3 
computer speaker system. 
A unique circular control pod, two tiny speakers and a hideaway Acoustimass@ module (not shown) give your music files sound that MacHo me says "is a shock to all who underestimate it " 

Bose Wave® music system. 
CNET says it "improves 
upon the ori~inal in both 
design and performance." 
Plays MP3 COs, includes 
FMIAM tuner/alarm clock 
and fits easily in a dorm or 
apartment. Jonathan Takiff 
of The Philadelphia Daily 
News says, "crank it up 
loud and this little jack is 
a giant killer. .. " 
To order or learn more, call today 

1-800-576-1942 
For more information 
www.bose.com /school 


Tuesday, October 25, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
"These kids, no diiTerent than those who study down the street

Walk 
continued from page 1 
around tlw world in efforts to raise awarmwss of tlw plight faced by nortlwrn Ugandan chil­
dn~n. 
"Today wn are walking to tell tlwir story and demand intnrna­tional action to 
at Perle Elementary or Clay Jligh School, are forced to kill and maim pnople, even sometimes their own families, in the most brutal fashion," Quaranto wrote on the Uganda Conflict Action Network (Uganda-CAN) Web site. 
Uganda-CAN is a campaign of 
Ugandans and 
end this war," eo-organiznr  "The crowd was  Americans working for peace in north­ 
and  junior  electric, inspired by  ern  Uganda.  
Lindsay  llnro  seeing large  Quaranto founded  
said in a spnneh at the walk. "Today, wn are  numbers and feeling the  the organization live months ago after he spent last spring  
part  of  the  passion.,  studying  at  Mak­ 
largest interna­ erere University in  
tional mobiliza­tion nver for  Peter Quaranto  Kampala, Uganda, through the School  
thesn children  co-organizer  for  International  
and their fami­ Training.  
lies. Let us walk  I Ie eallnd the event  

with resolve and couragn." "a great step forward in the 
The nortlwrn Ugandan ehil­longer walk by global civil socie­dnm arn thn victims of what ty to end the war in northern Quaranto called "one of the Uganda." world's most nnglnetnd and f'or­"The feedback was all posi­gottml humanitarian r.rises," a tive," Quaranto said. "The crowd 20-ynar conllid that has forced was electric, inspired by seeing over 30,000 r.hildrnn as young as the large numbers and feeling six to bnconw child soldiers and the passion." sexual slaves. Quaranto said there wnrn been inaccurate. 
to both raise awareness and "The number is inflated,"

support Uganda-CAN. 

Baron said. "It's best li>r us to be"Not only should Notrn Dame 
conservative and then change
care about the situation in 

our numbnrs after the first year." 
northern Uganda because of our 

Baron's reassurances did no.t
many eonnections with the coun­alleviate Flaherty's doubts, but hetry, but also as a Catholic school. 

was the sole member to vote
we should Lbel called to try to do against the resolution. 

something about this incrndible A recommendation will be sent

injustke," Hossmann said. 

to Vice President for Student
Tho walk was sponsor<~d by 

All'airs Father Mark Poorman inUganda-CAN as well as the the new few weeks, Baron said. IfCenter for Soeial Concerns, the approved by Poorman, the pro­
Kellogg Institute for posal will be submitted for

International Studies, the Africa review to the University budget­Faith and Justice Network and ing group. 

Indiana University South Bend's Political Science Club. 

In other CLC news: 
+ Social concerns task force co-chair Liz Kozlow said her
Contact Maddie Hanna at 

committee had narrowed its
mhannal@nd.edu 

focus to two main issues. 
"We are working on two proj­ects," Kozlow said. "The first one is dance themes. We felt that dance themes sometimes become 




STEINFELS! 
disr.espectful. We are going through the hall dance commit­tee manual. We're also working 
with Campus Ministry to raise awareness about non-Catholic services in the area." 
+ Campus grounds and structures chair James Leito said his group has been balancing a variety of projects with help from 
Peter Steinfels, author of the national bestseller 
A People Adrift: Crisis ofthe Roman Catholic Church in America 
4:00p.m. 
Stapleton Lounge Wednesday, October 26, 2005 
various groups within the Student Union. 
"We've got a bunch of little things going on," Ldto said. "Just about everything we've benn working on, there is anotlwr group on campus that is inten~st­ed in the same issues." 
+ 
Student voice and input task force chair David Thaxton said his committee's research was drawing to a dose. 

"Wn have spent a lot of time talking about individual rnsnarch on student involvmm~nt in arnas of the University," Thaxton said. "We have narmwed down the list of which areas we will look into in morn depth so wn ~~an li1cus on those things that are of more interest." 

+ 
Baron told members that the newly created task force on hall taxes remediml the situation of rectors being pressured to donate hall funds to dtarities in the last few weeks. 


The committee was created at the Council's last meeting aftpr discussion heated up over the distribution of hall funds within each dorm. 
'Tm going to write a memo to all leaders within thn Student Union nxplaining that in asking for money, we arn not trying to stilT arm people to coerce thnm to give money," Bamn said. "I think the task force has donn its job, and we don't nend it any l'urtlwr." 
+ 011'-nunpus senator Blake Jackson told members he received positivn feedback after the Senate Minority AITairs eom­mitten prnsnntnd its proposal liw a div1~rsity course rnquirnnwnt to the Board of Trustees ~~ommittPP on social valuns and responsibili­ties on <kt. 13. 
"Thny lov1~d it. Tlwy thought it was a grnat idea and said tlwy'd been pulling for this for a num­ber of years," Jackson said. "Thny expressed somn of tlwir concerns, and wn rnsponded with vigor." 
The proposal would implmnent a diversity course requirement for all Notre Dame studenL'i. 
+ llall PresidenL'i Council eo­chair Dan Zenker updated mem­bers on the pep rally procedure for admitting students into the Joyce Center. Aftnr meeting with Joyce Center officials, Zenker said all doors will now be open beginning at 5:30 p.m. at Gate 11 for students in non-host dorms. The doors will stay open until after 6 p.m., Zenker said. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.du 
more participanL'i than expected, especially since the weather was less than ideal and the walk occurred on the last day of fall break. 
"The turnout was an amazing surprise and a real hopeful sign that people, when they learn about what's happening in northern Uganda, do care and want to act," Quaranto said. "I think our outr1w~h and publicity strategies, particularly targeting the wider South Bend communi­ty, were crucial." 
The wider South Bend com­munity to which Quaranto ref~1rred . included Indiana University South Bend and Penn High School students. 
Junior Michael Hossmann, a GuluWalk participant, said he thought Notre Dame students had a much greater awareness of the situation in northern Uganda than the general popula­tion. 
"There seem to be many con­nections between Notre Dame and Uganda, whether that is from ND students studying or doing service there or from the Holy Cross presence there," he said. 
Like Quaranto, Hossmann studied in Uganda last spring. lie said he decided to participate 

CLC 
continued from page 1 
not meet the demand demon­strated during the College Readership Program's four-week pilot program last spring. 
"We found 2,000 papnrs to be the equilibrium amount for the demand that was demonstrated," llarris said. "Under our proposal, the $81,000 generated would gnt us 1,600 papers per day." 
While this would be "a slight shortfall," Harris said student government could combat the problem by implementing recy­cling programs for the papers and by placing the papers only in the dining halls. 
Student Union Board manager Jimmy Flaherty questioned whether every student on cam­pus would have access to the newspapers. 
"This seems like a lot like room and board fees where it is built in and everyone pays," Flaherty said. "All 8,000 students will have to pay it, but less than 2,000 students will see a return on that?" 
Baron cautioned that the demand estimate might have 



Siz~le'nc (SizzleliniO!>) ­
On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B:J-}efie (Bellini)­A frosty raspberry, green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays) __:_ Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini" Bellini Tuesdays! 

Peter Steinfcls writes the "Beliefs" column lor The New York Times. From 1988 to 1997, he was the senior religion correspondent for the Times and, before that, editor of Co11unonweal. the Icadi ng independent journal published by Roman Catholic laypeople. 
lie has taught at ( icorgetown and Notre Dmnc universities and lectures wi~.. . Currently he is co-dircl:tor of the Center for Religion and Culture at Fordham University, New York City. 
Tuesday, October 25, 2005 

page 10 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
minor consuming or minor in Notre Dame students, and 11 been as much of a problem possession of alcohol, John­were non-students. Gagnon this year, but Stadium per­
Arrests
Fans 

son said. Johnson said one said all students ejected from sonnel will "keep looking" continued from page 1 
continued from page 1 non-student custodial arrest the BYU game were done so for students throwing objects was made at the Stadium, for either intoxication or in the stands. rowdy, and the fans were great 
and 18 people were ejected alcohol possession. but not as excited as they were for 
Assistant Director (NDSP) from the BYU game for alco­Gagnon also said marsh­Contact Katie Perry at USC." 
Phil Johnson said. hol violations. Seven were mallow throwing has not kperryS@nd.edu 
Junior Kaki Orr said the hype surrounding the USC game helped create an intense fan sec­tion. 
"The hype being College Gameday, the 110 private jets that flew in, the pep rally in the Stadium and the mass hysteria in the media [all contributed!,'' Orr said. 
The BYU game, students said, was a different story. 
'There's obviously not as much hype about BYU as USC because when the USC game ended, our lives ended with it,'' sophomore Mimi Kendrick said, tongue in cheek. "But the IBYUI weekend was still fun because it's Notre Dame football. It doesn't matter who we play." 
Sophomore Sam Stoner said the outcome of the USC game had a big impact on the momentum going into the BYU game. 
"When you come off such an exciting game, especially when you lose, there is kind of' an emo­tional let down," Stoner said. "And so when you play a team that you are expected to beat and are obviously blltter than, it's real­ly hard to reach that intensity." 
Stoner ended up leaving the BYU game at halftime. 
"I was more interested in get­ting my work done for the week than watching our team continue to pummel a team that we should be pummeling," he said. 
Although some people might argue that fall break should leave students well-rested and ready to cheer, it also led to a seemingly decreased level of student atten­dance at the BYU game. 
Sophomore Antonia Bethel did­n't make it back to campus in time for the BYU game. 
"Of course I cared [that I missed the BYU game]," Bethel said. "But I had a party at my house." 
Possibly the bigger factor in a student attendance drop, students said, wa..<> the opponent. 
"Everyone expected a blowout against BYU, and so a lot of peo­ple sold tickets and didn't come back," junior Laura Navarre said. 
Kate Antonacci contributed to this report. 
Contact Katie Linhares at kJinhare@nd.edu 

Johnson said NDSP, South Bend, St. Joseph County and Indiana State Excise police officers working in the parking lots prior to the game made six custodial arrests and wrote 23 arrest tickets to 19 adults. 
Officers issued one ticket to a student who was pr-o­viding beer to both his high school-age brother and to another 20-year-old stu­dent, Johnson said. 
Johnson said nine custo­dial arrests-four of which were students -were made at the Stadium during the game for public intoxi­cation. 
Alcohol-related rule viola­tions comprised "most" of the 28 other ejections from the Stadium, Johnson said. 
Cappy Gagnon, coordina­tor of stadium personnel, said 18 students were eject­ed from the game. A large majority of these ejections, 16, were because of intoxi­cation. Two ejections resulted from marshmallow throwing incidents. 
Johnson said one student was transported to the hos­pital by an ambulance for intoxication. 
Gagnon was troubled by the alcohol-related prob­lems not only at the USC game, but also at Saturday's game against Brigham Young. 
"It's a concern," Gagnon said. "If people are so intoxicated they can't even stand up, what would they do if we didn't remove them? Would they wander off into the middle of Juniper Road? What would happen if we didn't remove students passed out in the restrooms so they could receive proper medical attention?" 
Before the BYU game, Johnson said the alcohol enforcement team working in campus parking lots made one custodial arrest. Officers issued citations to eight juveniles and issued 20 tickets to adults. 
All tickP-ts were for alco­hol-related offenses, either 

Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
Thursday, October 27, 2005 6:30 PM 129 DeBartolo 
Pre-med program fall semester in Puebla Engineering and business courses in Monterrey Elementary Spanish in Monterrey Summer Program for Engineers and others in Puebla 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: NOVEMBER 15 FOR FALL, SPRING AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2006-7, MARCH 1 FOR SUMMER 2006, MAY 1 FOR SPRING 2007 APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/...,jntlstud/ 
LAST CHANCE! 
Concession Stand Training 
Tuesday **October 25th **12pm & 4pm 
Wednesday **October 26th **12pm & 4pm 
LaFortune Student Center Ballroom
Each concession stand group must have at least two students trained 
*All training from the spring is still valid for the 2005 Football season 

Questions?Jennifer Ruger 
StudentActivities Office jrager1@nd.edu 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, October 25, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 11 

of the 



"Time Out" 
SPORTS BAR 
3:00pm til close* 7 days a week 

ROCK N ROLL AT ITS FINEST! 7:00pm til 2:00am Fri. & Sat. 52565 State Road 933 North South Bend, IN 46637 
Located in North Village Mall (behind Ponderosa) 
Dally Drink Specials-Sandwiches-Darts-Pool Live Music Every Weekend Watch the Irish on the 106" Projection TV Must be 21 years old with valid ID to enter 

MADIS<>N ()YS'TER l~AR 
Great Drink Specials E1·cn·day 

AtiiHI!oolllu·n· 
Coli, l'ool, Fou"hall. llar'h,  Mouclay:  $1 Draup;hts, $ (. l'it<"hcrs  
1\i~ Snt.'t.'ll, :ll•  Tuesday:  $2.2.'i Call!  
\\'l'!lnt'sday:  $I..i0 Domcsli<" Lonp; Ne<"ks  
·St.·ai()CKII)Iattl'r- Thursday:  $2.50 Imports  
·l'lrarhroilt·d Strip·  Friday:  $0.50 :12oz Draup;hls/ I louse Pints  
-Chop' & 1\ur~ei~­ ·Keep the (;(ass!  
Saturday:  $15 Bu<"ket Mix Import  
\\'..11-Sto<"kl'd liar & l111port'  

129 ;'\;.:\lain St(@Coll;tx), South Bt'nd, IN .'i7 L2HH.:1771i 

YOU MUST BE 21 YEARS OF AGE WITH A VALID IDTO CONSUME ALCOHOL AT THESE ESTABLISHMENTS. 
PLEASE DRINK RESPONSIBLY. DON'T DRINK AND DRIVE. 
Monday: Karaoke Night, $2.50 House Special 

Tuesday: $1.50 Domestic Bottles $2.00 Wells 
Wednesday: Trivia Night, $3.00 Pitchers 
Thursday: $2.00 Imports 

Sunday: $1 0.00 Domestic Buckets 
Kitchen Open Every Day Daily Grill Specials: M-Th 4pm-3am Fri 11 am-3am Sat 4pm-3am Sun 11 am-12midnight 
574.234.4015 
IRISH PUB 

~ EST.1990 ollr e-aee ...kw :E'u4 """" ~"' 
TUESDAYS AND 'J1IUHSDAYS: 
$3.00 PITCHEHS $I .00 DOMESTIC DHAFTS 
NO COVER! 

$I .00 CANS EVEHY DAY OF SELECT DOMESTICS 




-Thursday Student Night -$1.50 Domestic Draft, Well Drinks and Domestic Bottles Watch for details -Doors Open @ 1Opm 
about our 

-$2 Cover With Student ID 
Halloween

-Food Served All Night 
Contest!!!

-Relaxed Dress Code -Private Parties Available 
CLUB FEVER 222 SouTH MICHIGAN STREET, SouTH BEND 574-234·5200 WWW.CLUBFEVER.BIZ 


$1.25 dogs & $1.25 drafts ALL DAY EVERY DAY 10°/o Discount w/ Student ID Karaoke: "Sing your way to Vegas" Wed 9pm-2am 
1733 South Bend Ave. 574.277.2527 

Watch all Notre 

Dame Games­
Never a cover Most and Largest with Student 10 Screens in Town GO IRISH 
2046 South Bend Ave Across from Martins Plaza 
272-1766 
MAKE BOOKMAKER'S YOUR PARTY HEADQUARTERS THIS WEEKEND!!! 
THURSDAY Every Thursday Private Party for 


·-------. 
NO, HC and SMC students 
I I
2nd Penny night. 1¢ wells and drafts, 
1 $2.00 OFF 1
OJ plays hits all night long 
I COVER THURSDAY I 
FRIDAY Singled Out Dating Game@ 12am! 
NIGHT FOR THE NO, 
$3 32oz Drafts, $2 Wells 
I SMC, HC PRIVATE I 
SATURDAY I PARTY & FRIDAY I 
Halloween Party! 
Win your own fully stocked bar! 
I SINP~~~~!~!UT I 
Buy one drink, get one for a Penny! 
._ ______ .. 

EVERY WEDNESDAY 
EVERY THURSDAY 

$2 
ANY drink 
in the house!! 
75¢ 
Well Drinks 

OPEN MIC NIGHT!! 
$2 
ENORMOUS 

Come play or sing on 
Basket of Fries 

stage with our entertainers 

THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 12 Tuesday, October 25, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Make them read the bills they pass 
P.O. Box 71'), No.tr¢ ~e, IN 465% 024 South Di11lng Hall, Noer~ Dam~JN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDrmR BusiNESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Rer;iolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabubs AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SroRTS EDITOR: Mike Gllloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama GottUmukkala SAINT MARY'S EoiTOil-: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGEru Jennifer Kenning CoNTROllER: Jim Kirihara· WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 fAX (574} 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-454 I obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOUIT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESk (574} 631-4543 sports.J@nd.edu ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESIC (574) 63HP67 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-883? 
THE ·,"\If 
OBSERVERONLI 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is ~~ ,indepcnlfent, 01 .+PAhlMtc:d in prinr and onlill~ by~ t!!1 
....,University ofNoue D;une du Lac: and Saint Mary's , ,AI 
College. Editorial conrenr, including advertisements,.isJi;F n6t governed by policies ofthe administration ofeirher institution. The O~r reserves the right ro rdi.lse adven:isements based on content. 
The news is. reported as aceut'l\ttlyan<;l®jecti~ly<l$) possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of ill the majority of the Editor in Chief. Mllfillgiog Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and deparnnenr edirots. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe ~tuthors and nOt ne=arily those ofThe Ob$erver. --··::.[;:::· 
Viewpoint space is available to all ~;The free expression ofall opinions through letters ~ encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contacr informacion. 
Q~tions regarding 0/nerverpolicies shouldbt' directedto Editorin ChiefC!ttire Hti11inger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obi<""'' (USPS 5992-4000) il vublish<d Mlwdll)' dJro"l(h Fii<!.y "'"'P" duri!>g <:xam ;~nd va<:;u:iun perWds, A subscription w The Oh~c i!l: .$100 fQr one ~c:mk ys:ar. $S:5-for tme ll<:mener. 
The-~t¥ttl$ puhlisbc!d:ac::: I'Q;'TMASTgR :024 South Dining H-1ll Send..-~~~QIU t(): Notre Dam~ IN 16~50.0779 Th< Obo<:rn!< 1?-c:riodkaJ ~gc: ~id .at NoueD.amc P.O.Box1'Yi aM additit:mal mlliling tJiikes. 024 S<>u<h Dining Hall 
Noo< Dam<, IN 4~~56-0779 
Tht Obsc:f\>et b .a merubtr-of:tlii!:~tcd P¥C!i$i. JJl ~ct1Qn.11gbu,at'l!: reserved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
Maddie Hanna Matt Puglisi Mary Kate Chris Khorey Malone Mike Gilloon 
Marcella Berrios Bobby Griffin Viewpoint Scene Sarah Falvey Mark Graphics Bemenderfer Kelly MacDonald 

I just thought my loyal readers would like to know that this is my fifth col­umn. Hopefully my reference will not be held against me too much. 
I would like, with my fifth column, to bring to your atten­tion a new idea that has been conceived by the DownsizeDC Foundation. DownsizeDC is a lib­ertarian Internet organization dedicat­ed to shrinking the size of government bureaucracy through grassroots lobbying and was founded by Jim Babka, Steve Dasbach, Perry Willis and former Libertarian Party presidential candi­date Harry Browne. Their idea is not necessarily a libertarian idea; it is not bi-partisan, tri-partisan or even dode­ca-partisan. It is, to put it simply, com­mon sense. 
DownsizeDC is promoting a bill called the Head the Bills Act (RTBA). It is exacHy what it sounds like. It would require every member of Congress to read every single bill that is up for con­sideration before voting. 
Why is such a bill necessary? We elect our leaders to adequately repre­sent us and to preserve our Constitution. Do these same honest, hard-working politicians actually vote for bills without reading them? 
Yes, of course they do. 

Last year, several major pieces of leg­islation totaled more than 2,900 pages. These atrocities authorized the spend­ing of more than $1 trillion (that's "tril­lion" with a "t") of taxpayers' money, and a grand total of 48 hours were allotted for Congress members to read these bills. 
That is only 1,450 pages per day! And let us not forget one embarrass-

Scott Wagner 
Live and Let Live or Die 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 

Are you planning to get men's basketball tickets? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

ing episode in which the massive 2004 omnibus spending bill (the existence of which should be embarrassing enough for Republican leadership) contained a provision allowing Republican Party officials to have unrestricted access to the income tax returns of any person in America. After signing the bill into law, no one in the Republican Party knew who had written this delightfully Nazi­esque piece of legislation. 
As with any expansive bureaucracy, accountability is lost somewhere in the paperwork. In "On Violence" (which I skimmed over fall break -yes, for fun), German-born political philosopher Hannah Arendt addresses the idea of bureaucracy as "rule by nobody." That is, when there is no real responsibility, decisions are dift'used throughout the organization. No one is truly account­able for the actions of the group. as no one person actually made the decision in the first place. Such is our govern­ment. 
Our laws are written by special inter­est groups, and our politicians do not know what the bills contain before they vote. It is almost beyond comprehen­sion. Even the Patriot Act, which is 340 pages, was given only 72 hours to be reviewed. It passed with an over­whelming majority and even received the seal of approval from Democratic Senator John Kerry-who of course opposed much of what was in the bill after it had already passed, just in time for the presidential election. 
America needs the Read the Bills Act. We cannot allow such "legislation with­out representation" anymore. 
The RTBA would require that every bill, along with every amendment, "must be read in its entirety before a quorum in both the House and Senate." Once the reading is complete, every single member of Congress "must sign a sworn affidavit, under penalty of per­jury, that he or she has attentively either personally read, or heard read, 

S b . L ~ 
~ . u '~nut a""etter ;
Ito the Editor at I 
jwww.ndsmcobserver.com i
~ ~ 
the complete bill to be voted on." The same is true for the renewal of laws under sunset provisions. Every bill must also be posted on the Internet "at least 7 days before a vote," thereby allowing for greater public scrutiny of legislation. 
Any bill that is passed without satisfy­ing these requirements would "render the measure null and void, and estab­lish grounds for the law to be chal­lenged in court," so the politicians would suddenly find themselves legally accountable to American citizens. 
Finally, my favorite part of the bill: "Congress cannot waive these require­ments." 
The RTBA could potentially put a stop to "log-rolling" and the secret addition of last-minute provisions to bills. The RTBA could slow down the growth of government, and perhaps even curb the horrific spending we have seen in recent years. It could, at the very least, give politicians a guilty conscience as they continue voting for such legislative monstrosities. 
Check out DownsizeDC's website at www.downsizedc.org. One can quickly log in and send a prewritten letter to one's representatives urging them to support the HTBA. It is completely worth the five minutes it takes. 
The RTBA is a great first step towards fixing the mess in Washington. The next step is to stop electing politi­cians who disgrace the Constitution, waste taxpayers' money and vote for bills they have not read. 
However, we'll take it one step at a time. 
Scott Wagner is the president ofthe brand new College Libertarians Club and writes political satire for the Web site The Enduring Vision. He can be contacted at swagnerl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
-AND I'LL %eT f.E·M·A ·~ N6f ~eAtl( FoR 
Tt\AT-;EITt-leR-.. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''A little learning is a dangerous thing." 
Alexander Pope writer 



THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday October 25, 2005 
page 13 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Roche tnisrepresented 
I am unabln to let go unchal­lnngnd what must bo dnscribnd as a devious and inappropriate rhntorkal strategy usml by ;\nthony l.auingnr whose Oct. 12 column, "Of Hay Singfried, Mark Hoehn and the 1:hild we once wnrn," usns the death of <lllP good man and our collnctivn rnspnct for our belovnd "Lady" to compltltely misrepresent and mischaractnrize another good man, l>mtn Mark Hoehn. To bn spncilk. to usP the occ:asion of the death of this prominent ligurn, Hay Siegfrind, and to daim to bn speaking in his memory against a prominent lig­urn in tlw Univorsity who has no rnlationship at all with the sad 1went hn dnscrilws constitutes a tast11lnss effort and subverts prop11r gnsturns of mourning. 
But tlwrn is much morn that is wrong. To rnpros11nt Hoehn as a proponnnt of abortion. on thn basis of his Nnw York Timns op­nd pincn, which is the only source thn writPr cites, signals a colossal miswading, indned a severe dis­tortion of thn tnxt both in its fuller argument and in its SIWilral par­tkular points. To have s11ized on thn onn particular nuanced phrase that Tlw Obsnrver lntter quotns as supposed nvidnnee of Hoehn's advocacy of abortion shows tlw writnr's wholesale fail­urn to umlnrstand what this spc­dlir phrase actually statns, show­ing inStPild to what llXtrmnes Of m isrn presnn tation thn Iotter writnr is willing to go. But it also indkatns tho blanket attempted criticism if this was tlw best thing lw eould lind in Hoch11's op-ed · pince to oiTnr as the purported nvid11nce for the fallacious daim about Hoehn's position. 
or all thn targets for criticism among those many who do actu­ally advocatn abortion, why does the lnttnr writer choose to target Hoche who, in faet, argund with 
impressive evidence that there 
may be other ways to reduce 
abortions than to concentrate 
singly on the reversal of the Supreme Court decision of 1973. 
To offer the ease of the unfortu­natn woman who evidnntly took tho "legality" of abortion as the confirmation of its moral "propri­ety" is simply to demonstrate that "law" is not always the appropri­ate measure of virtue, a point which needs grPat emphasis in our society as well as elsewhere. The tragedy of the young woman or anyone else who does not know to distinguish between what is "legal" and what is "good" indi­catns how badly we need to nmphasize the centrality of eon­sdence rather than mere obedi­ence to publie authority, which is exactly the central argument of Hoehn's op-ed piece. 
I laving devoted my own profes­siomtl life to protecting the rights of mothers and infants to sleep in thfl samn bod, a biologically valid and perfectly appropriate context for breastfneding and forms of nurturing, which in many eases saves lives, and having once been called a "baby killer" because of it by those opposed to a scientifi­cally accuratn presentation of mother-infant cosleeping, I am no doubt much loss tolerant of per­mitting Hoehe's own values, beliefs and purpose to be twisted to the point that they misrnpre­snnt who he is and what he thinks. And for that sensitivity, I apologize. But I am grateful nonetheless that it compels me, morally, to try to set the record straight. 
James McKenna professor Anthropology Department chair Oct. 21 
U-WIRE 

Learn to love thy fellow-111an 
Something's very wrong in this world. 
No, this isn't going to be some diatribe about how the world's doomed to tho pits of hell for some biblical technicality, like whether a lettl1r in the original Greek text is supposed to be an iota or an epsilon, or "what Lacey does this word really Holley mean'?" You know, these 
Daily

things don't matter in the 
Mississippian

scheme of things. 
University of

But yes, this will b11 
Mississippi

about religion, so I would 
advise you to stop reading 
now if you don't want to read about reli­
gion at all. Consider this your only warn­
ing. 

In this "anything goes" society, every­thing's gone. No one acts like they're sup­posed to. No one seems to have any kind of standard of behavior anymore. No one cares, as long as they do what they want to do. 
If that makes me sound harsh to some of you, then so be it. But I'm not someone who believes in black and white judgments, cold-hearted rationalizations and simplifi­cations of complicated matters. I do, how­ever, believe in kindness, generosity. for­giveness. acceptance and the redeeming power of love. 
What I've noticed, and what makes me quite angry, is that Christians have forgot­ten how to love, even though Christ loves us. We make these rash and ignorant judg­ments about people, forgetting that God doesn't judge us based on the color of our skin, the clothes we wear, where we came from or even what wo've done. We're a bunch of forgetful people. We seem to con­veniently forget the command, not the request. to love others as ourselves. It is an order from God himself. 
There's an apocryphal story surrounding the apostle John that talks about love. In it, some of the disciples of John ask him why he reiterates the phrase, "Love one anoth­er." He replies with, "Because it is the Lord's e?,mmand, and if it only is done, it is enough. 
Treat people like you would want them to treat you. That's so simple, people. But wp,'vo turned it into sonwthing extnmwly dif'ficult, if not impossibln. You wouldn't want someone walking up to you and telling you that you're going to "a d1wil's hell," to use a phrase of my pastor's, because you'rn white, black, Ameriean, Korean, French, etc. You wouldn't want someone to condemn you becausn you think about things diff11rnntly than thny do. I'm talking about eondnmning peoplo. not just disagreeing or disliking somnorw. Thn word "condemn" literally moans to snn­tence someone to death. Is that what Christianity is all about? Sending peopln to die for who tlwy are, for whom God madn them to be'? 
That's not the gospol that I was taught from the pulpit. Evnrybody sons thn world difTerently basod on life expnrinnens. Why is that so instinctively wrong to pnopln? 
Is it so hard to just accept pnopln for who they are'? God, in his inlinite mercy. aecnpts you. By all rights, you should do the samn. 
I'm not daiming to b1~ pnrfnet by any stretch of tlw imagination, but I think I have the right to say something about this to my fellow Christians. 
We, as Christians, are supposnd to hn the model to tho world. What kind of example are we setting? A pretty bad one, I think. It's no wonder that people groan and eomplain about any mention of the words "religion" or "Christianity." 
It's no wonder that the word "hypoeritn" llies about when talking about the members of a church. We earned the rnputation we have by our behavior towards others. Pnopln are starting to tn~at us in the manner that we as a group havn treated people for cen­turies. 
We claim to have the right to govern behavior and choose what's right and what's wrong, but if any behavior is wrong, if any behavior should be governed, it is our own behavior to otlwrs. 
This column appeared in the Oct. 24 issue ofthe Daily Mississippian, the daily publica­tion at the Uniuersity ofMississippi. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Obseruer. 
U-WIRE 


A fine line between indecency and free speech 
Mnntion tlw nam1~ lloward Stern, and you're likely to get one or two r11actions: a subtle chuekle or a look of utter disgust. Whether you hate him or love him, Stern has built up a radio empirn few can rival. lie continues Eric to remain at the top Wilson of the ratings in many of thn 46 mar­OSU Daily
Barometer

kets where his show 
Oregon .S'tate

is broadcast, and his 
University

popularity shows no sign of stopping. 
This sueellss has not come easy for Stnrn; howllvnr. he has b11en the proud reeipinnt of somn of the largest linns in radio history. But this hasn't stopped the solf-prodaimed "king of all media." In faet, it may just be fuel­ing thn l'ire. With each line ltwied against Stern. his ratings inerease as eurious listennrs tune in to see what he's going to do next. In some r11speets. hn presents an irresistible speetaele akin to the compulsion one has to gawk at a traiTie accident on thn frneway. 
Feeling the FCC pressure. Stern has dneidnd to leave the traditional radio format to embark on a new eonquest: convincing listeners to pay for radio. In .January 2006, Stern and his staffllrs will switch to a new format whern literally anything goes. The self-proclaimed king of all media will have free reign over his kingdom and for once will be able to rule as he pleases. 
This is a big move for the poster boy for indecency, who has been under a constant tug of war with the FCC. But Stern's departure raises many ques­tions and. to some, even puts up red llags. Is Stern's show an issue of free speech, or is it just plain indecent? 
Whether or not you agree with what Stnrn does, he is arguably one of the most inlluential personalities we have seen or ever will see in radio. His audience of 12 million tune in day after day to be entertained. i\nyone who listens to Stern knows what his show mainly consists of: sex, strip­pers, prostitutes and porn stars. llis show pushes the boundaries of not only society, but also our gag reflex. Because of this, Stern's show has been under constant scrutiny from the FCC and others in Washington. 
Some have even gone as far as try­ing to ban his show all together. Many will argue that they have succeeded in doing this by driving him out of traditional radio as we know it today. But this presents a troubling double standard in our society. Where do we draw the line between the First Amendment and the boundaries of indecency'? Why should the govern­
ment have to tell us what we can and can't listen to'? Why can't consumers' will drive the economy'? 
Many commentators have noted that the fines levied against the Stern show put all of our civil liberties in jnopardy. On his Web site, Stern touches on the issue, saying, "It is pretty shocking that governmental interference into our rights and fren speech takes place in the U.S." In a nation where television violence seems to prevail on every other chan­nel you click, many look at Stern as being tame. 
Violence on TV is often blamed for everything from school shootings to gang violence, but as some will eon­tend. Stern's show does little in com­parison. But why is one accepted over the other? Why can we show someone being brutally murdered on TV while a discussion with a person in the porn industry immediately draws red llags from the government lawmakers'? In reality, the two don't even compare. Howard Stern has made a career of pushing the envelope, which some people find uncomfortable. 
rn fact, every time society changes, many feel a level of discomfort. The Beatles are a prime example. When they were first introduend, many were outraged at everything from tlwir style of music to their long hair. One must naturally ask the question: is Howard Stern really doing anything that hasn't been done for the past 200 years'? How can telnvision shows that portray violence be accepted as main­stream by our society, nven as thllsn programs have bllen proven to invokn aggression in people'? 
If our government is going to make a standard for deceney, they should apply it fairly. While I'm not trying to argue the moral implieations of Stern's show, anyone can see tho vast discrepancills that oxist. Nobody knows what will happen in the future of radio; with Stern's arrival on satPI­Iite certain. many lawmakers arn now pushing to regulate his new format. When arp we going to nnally say enough is enough'? If peopln are will­ing to pay $12.95 a month to listen to Stern, let them do it. Still don't likll him? Then pick anothnr station. 
This column appeared in the Oct. 24 issue of the OSU 1Jaily11arometer, the daily publication at Oregon State University. 
The lJiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Obseruer. 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 14 
Tuesday, October 25, 2005 
lsc~&fiRnl 
Welcome to the freak show 
Shrug it off as a guilty pleasure. eating worms, this act impresses with Blame it on a faulty remote control. its depraved gumption. Flat-out deny it. But reality TV has For our second act, please follow me sprawled across television program­into our house of humiliation. Here, ming with the effect of a 17 car pile­watch hapless geeks vie for the heart up at the side of the 
of a beautiful woman, as they are road, and viewers forced to display their lack of coordi­everywhere, in a nation. Look how scrawny and pale collective rubber­they all are! Want more delusions of neck move. have self grandeur? Check out the B-list turned to gawk. celebrities desperately trying to res­
Sure, criticisms of urrect their careers, or feast your 
reality television eyes upon the oblivious and talentless 
have become contestant screeching Whitney 
almost as cliched as Houston in front of a national audi­
the shows them-Mary Squillace ence. selves. By now, we Our third ring features the divas, all know that we're divos and otherwise divine lives of the being ripped off rich and underage. Sixteen and going
Scene Writer 

with the mass pro­on spoiled-rotten, we'll call it! This duction of cheaply-elite act consists of a conspicuous dis­made shows. We're play of designer clothing paired with even aware that "Trading Spouses" is wails, whines and demands for just "Wife Swap" in a Fox's clothing. Daddy's attention (and the newest 
At the same time, the mesmerizing BMW model, of course), complete with effects of reality TV are undeniable. teeny-bopper love triangles and war­So what is it about these shows that ring cliques. makes them addicting as a pack of However, the real ringmasters of cigarettes smoked over a can of these exploitations exist outside of Pringles? It's certainly not the reality primetime television, and even outside of the shows. We don't tune-in to of MTV. They operate under the guise watch mundane details of our own of mediating self-help. Daytime talk lives ret1ected back at us. Instead, we shows like Jerry Springer and, more hope to see the shocking and the out­recently, Dr. Phil's show inundate rageous side of "real people" -scan­viewers with representations of the dalize us, please! It is a fascination culturally grotesque. Jerry never fails with the abnormal and the unreal that to impress with his constant string of acts like virtual nicotine and keeps us the sexually reckless, mothers who renewing our weekly commitments. dress like their daughters, daughters 
Sickeningly, this fascination distinct­who sleep with men old enough to be ly parallels another popular form of their fathers and other oh-so accurate entertainment that previously portrayals of the lower-middle class. intrigued audiences for over 100 years Likewise, Dr. Phil, licensed psycholo­-the circus sideshow. However, gist, provides us with a perfect repre­where freak shows of the early 20th sentation of the mentally unsound. His century featured physical oddities, sideshow includes acts that range today's television line-up puts dys­from the likes of Howard, who is only functional personalities on display. aroused by certain types of groomed 
In a sense, the explosion of reality hair, to a 22-year-old man who refus­TV has replaced Jo-Jo the Dog-Faced es to give-up his extensive Care Bear Boy with Richard Hatch: Naked Fat collection. Man and the surprising dexterity of With this overwhelming variety of the amazing doll-making gnome with human anomalies, it's obvious that the Snapple Lady's furious attempts to instead of stepping right up at the lose 10 pounds. Instead of sideshows ringmaster's cue, we merely need to that offer a so-called "pornography of sit back and reach for the remote. For disabilities" for entertainment, reality reality television brings the Coney television titillates with its pornogra­Island sideshows to our very own phy of eccentricities. couches, where we can comfortably 
Step right up for our first act: the watch the freaks parade by, channel ruthless competitors. This strain of by channel. sideshow freaks contains the fiercest, boldest and most soulless. Whether Contact Mary Squillace at msquil­they are telling blatant lies to gain la@nd.edu The Donald's approval, unscrupulous­The views expressed in this column ly outwitting teammates or just stick­are those of the author and not neces­ing their faces in a bowl full of nesh sarily those of The Observer. 

Photo courtesy of channel4.com A family goes through the reality television cycle in the show "Wife Swap," in which wives find themselves thrust into new situations with unusual results. 
VIDEO GAME REVIEWS 
'The Warriors' carri• 
movie, and now in 2005, a continuation ol By MARK BEMENDERFER the original story has finally come tc Assistant Scene Editor fruition. In efforts to elaborate on man} 
of the short-lived characters, the entire Warriors, come out to play. game is a prequel to the events tha1 For those who have seen the 1979 cult unfold in the movie. This gives the player 
classic "The Warriors," those words have the ability to see how their favorite special meaning. After fighting through Warrior came to the position that the) the night to return home to Coney Island, were at the beginning of the movie. the Warriors are put to one final test on The game is a great continuation of tlu their home turf. original Warriors story. All of thE 
It fits the tone of the movie that their Warriors are present and in character pursuers never relent, even once the Fan favorites like Ajax and Cleon act likE gang makes their way home. The night one would expect, despite their limitec preceding the final confrontation had all screen-time during the movie. 1-Iearin~ the gangs in New York hounding the Ajax mock rival gangs is a thrill for anJ Warriors tirelessly. The gangs were hunt­fan of the movie. ing them because they were framed for The game is still a worthwhile pur the murder of the most powerful gang chase, even for garners who have neve: leader around. seen the movie. All of the traits witl 
It was a cheesy, entertaining movie, one which Rockstar Games has become asso that has stood the test of time and still ciated are once again present, such as thr manages to entertain to this date. rampant violence and swearing. In it: However, there was left plenty of room bare form, the game is a gang simulat01 for character development, as interest The player controls a pre-assignee was created in a character, only to see Warrior as he leads a group of other gan1 him fail in his journey to get home. members to accomplish the goals of tht 
Twenty-six years later, the answer has level. The levels are free-roam; howevm arrived. Rockstar Games acquired the they are much smaller than the one rights to create a game based on the found in the Grand Theft Auto series o 
other examples of the free roam genre. There is plenty to do in th1
The 


environments, despite thei smaller size. Every enem~Warriors 
turf entered has graffiti tha can be overwritten, cars witl 
Rockstar Games stereos that can be stolen anc stores that can either be bro ken into or lock-picked t( steal the goods. The randorr non-playable characters or the street can be mugged fm 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
'Tenkaichi' a treat for 
era typical of three-dimensional fighters,By MARK BEMENDERFER 
"Tenkaichi" has an over-the-shoulder 
Assistant Scene Editor 

camera more typical of adventure games. This allows for more fluid movement Sometimes all it takes is a fresh pair of across the battlefield, a trait that has eyes. been sadly lacking from the previous ver­
For the past three years, the game sions. developer Dimps has handled the cre­Another gameplay difference is that all ation of each new iteration from the the special moves are executed using one Dragonball Z series. While their efforts button. This does away with the more have certainly been solid, there was rela­typical fighting game complex-button tively little improvement from one to the combinations. This both adds to and next. Gameplay mechanics was changed, detracts from the game experience. While as well as the character roster, but the pulling off a characters signature nashy basic fighting engine remained relatively move is always fun, it's not quite as untouched. rewarding if the maneuver is too simple 
The last version featured an impressive to execute. roster, but some broken gameplay The case of use also allows the gamer mechanics. It was a solid effort, but to pull off some of their favorite moments showed plenty of potential for improve­from the anime. Immediately upon start­ment. Being Dimps third effort, it was ing a round, a character can fly high into time for another developer to taker a stab the air over the opponent's head and at the franchise. unleash a massive ki blast. With the press 
Enter Spike and their take on the of a button, you can change altitude while Dragonball Z fighting games. While they t1ying. Flying has been improved from the kept the artistic design of the Budokai previous version as well, as the player series intact, they changed the fighting can t1y on command now. mechanics drastically from the previous Spike has increased the difficulty of the versions. The first change evident from game, however. While the ease of control­the gameplay is the new camera position. ling the character has been improved, the Instead of the standard third-person cam-rounds themselves have become harder. 
The artificial intelligenee has become much more aggres­sive from the previous ver­
Dragonball Z 
sions and the differenees among characters more pro­
Budokai Tenkaichi 
nounced. The variance in the fighters

Spike is a weleome ehange from the standard fighting game as well. A character like Broly literally dwarfs characters like Kid Cohan, or Kid Trunks. They react realisti­
-








NSIDER 
Tuesday, October 25, 2005 OBSERVER Notre Dame 49, Brigham Young 23 

Airing it out 
Quinn, Stovall connect for four TDs in Notre Dame's 49-23 rout of BYU 
onslaught with a 62-play, 8-yard 
By KEN FOWLER 
drivn. T Irish rarnly huddled and Sports Writer 
maintained a 5-rneeiver set with 
an empty baeklinld until Quinn 
Notrp Damp's ollimsn answnrnd filllnd Stovall for a 1 0-yard touch­any qunstions about a post-USC down pass. lddown Saturday, brnaking a Mendenhall said his team did slnw of school rn1:ords nn routn to not adjust well to Notro Dame's a 4 1J-2:~ vietory ovPr Brigham spread offense, espedally with Young. regards to Stovall. 
For tlw sneond straight year. "( was a little surprised early by BYU's :~-3-5 del'm1s1~ dared thn tlw number of empty li>rmations Irish to put the ball in tlw air. ami and quick throws," he said. "We this limn Notrn Damn's junior never rnally took that away !'rom quartPrback provnd too much filr them." tlw BYU dnlimsP to haJHIIn. Though the Irish offense 
"Hngardlnss of eovnrag~• zonn, clicked on all eylinders. a shaky man or combination, Notn~ defensive perforrnanee kept the Danw's passing gamn was lwttnr gamn dosn until late in the third than our covnrag11 in nvnry quartPr. instanm today." BYU I wad eoach "Our dnfimsn was up and down lkorH:o Mnndnnhall said. today," Wnis said. "At timns, BYU 
()uinn 1:omplPtPd :~2-of-41 was moving tho ball at will." passns for 467 yards and six Brigham Young quarterback touchdowns. I lis six touchdowns John Bock led the Cougars on a brokn his own school rPcord of 7 -play. (,3-yard drivo and fi1und liw. SPt against Michigan Statn Todd Watkins for a 1 0-yard scorn Snpt. 17. with 5::{8 left in the third to eut 
"I rnally don't gnt <:aught up in the Notrn Dame's lead to 28-23. n~rords, but Brady did a lot of Bnek finish11d the game 26-of-45 things wPII with 317 yards, today," Irish hmLd two touchdown 
coach Charlin "/ really don 't get passes and a 
WPis said. "I rushing score.
caught up in records. 
thought hP Irish safety Tom playnd a nnarly but!Jrady /Quinn/ did Zbikowski inter­
llawlnss gamn." a lot ofthings well cepted thn two­()uinn 's top two point conversion
today. I thought he 
targnts on thn attempt, kneping al'tnrnoon, snnior played a nearly the Cougars two Maurien Stovall }lawless game." scores bnhind. and junior .Jeff "It rnally was­
Sarnardzija, n't easy b11eause
Charlie Wels 
raught 24 passns the game was 
Irish head coach 
rornbirwd in the doser than the 

ganw -a f!Jconl 
filr a Notrn Dame rncniving duo. 
Stovall finislwd with 14 rncnp­tions for 207 yards and four touchdowns. Samardzija caught I 0 p<L'isns fi1r 152 yards and two s1:oms. 
"Wn just trim! to get them the ball and lnt tlwm do what tlwy do bnst," <}uinn said. "Mo. Jell' and the rnst an~ all trflmnndous with tlw ball in thnir hands and gnt a lot of yards al'tnr thn catch." 
Stovall and Samardzija -both stand at 6-foot-5 -took full advantag11 of th11ir !wight, making l1mping catdws downfinld as thn Irish rnovnd the ball with pasn against thn man-lo-man coverage of BYU's secondary. 
"Tlwrn were oniHIIl-OJW match ups that WP werP willing to lake," ()uinn said. 
Quinn's sixth touchdown pass Saturday, a quick out to Stovall on tlw ldt sidn, gav11 tlw Irish a 42-2:~ lnad. Stovall eaught the ball at tlw lirw of scrimmage m~ar tlw left hash mark and beat the Cougar deli~nse to the mul zone. 
At tlw gamn's ouL-;nt, after BYU took an early :{-0 lead, Notre Damn hngan its ofTnnsivn 
final score may indicate," Wnis said. 
Af'tnr the BYU touchdown, Quinn said it was time to put the game out of reach and told his teammates the same thing. 
"Whnn they cut it to tive, it was exprnssnd that wn nned to stop messing around and get things going the way they were in the first hall', put some points on the board," Quinn said. 
Quinn needed just two plays and a defensive penalty to respond to Bock's drive and ~-,rive the Irish a 12-poinl eushion. Quinn eonnneted with running back Darius Walker on a sereen pass for a 37 -yard gain and then hit Stovall dnep over the middle fi>r a 36-yard touehdown pass. 
Tlw series lasted just 51 see­onds and was typical of the fast­moving Irish ollimse all game. 
Notrn Damn ran a wide-open ofTnnse until late in the fourth quart11r and lost the time-of-pos­session battle for the first time all year. The Cougars had the ball for :B:39, four minutes morn than any othHr Irish opponent this ynar. 
Irish cornerbaek Mike 
Hiehardson, who lost a fumble after intercepting a Beek pass in the first quarter. said the def{mse wore down at the end of the game. 
"We definitdy felt it," he said. 
Zbikowski picked off a Beck pass and rllturnnd it 83 yards filr a touchdown mid-way through the fourth quarter to dose out the seoring. 
Wnis said he expeeted the 
unbalanced ofl'ensive attack and concentrated on the passing game to exploit BYU's tendency to blitz snverallinebaekers. 
"It's funny because the guy from NBC at halftime came up to me and said, 'You going to run the ball in the second half?' And I said, 'Not if they keep blitzing,"' Weis said. "They look at me like I'm stupid. I'm looking at them like they're stupid. I don't know who is right or wrong." 
For Weis, it was his lirst win at Notre Dame Stadium after benllning the lirst Irish coach in 109 years to losn his first two home games. 
"It feels n~al good Ito win at homel. espeeially c:orning oil' an mnotional loss," Zbikowski said. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu 
==~~====~~==~========================~========================~·--­
play of the game
player of the game 
stat of the game 
quote of the game 
"This /Notre Dame/team plays with 
Maurice Stovall's 36-yard 
4
Brady Quinn 

more confidence, this team is more
touchdown reception in the third 
efficient, this team is more deter­
quarter
()uinn threw for a school-record six 
Touchdown receptions by wide 
mined /than last year:<; team/.and
touchdowns on 32-j'or-4 1 passing, 
receiver Maurice Stovall, a Notre 
they execute at a higher level. " 
The catch put Notre Dame ahead 
good for 4rq yards and no 
Bronco Mendenhall 

Dame record. lie also had 207 
BYU coach

35-23, sealing the win for the Irish. 
interceptions. 

yards receiving. 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 25, 2005 
report card 

Irish wide receiver Jeff Samardzija (83) celebrates one of his two touchdown receptions with tight end John Carlson (89) and offensive lineman Bob Morton (76). Samardzija caught 10 passes for 152 yards as Notre Dame got back on track with a 49-23 win over Brigham Young on Saturday. 

This time around, things are different 
A 

A 8+ 
A 
8­
C 
two interceptions, this group was
+picked on. If not for three key drops 
by Watkins, Beck throws for much more than 317 yards. 
c 
special teams: I lord and Harris had trou­ble communicating on the kickoff' 
return. Meikle had a big return ((>r BYU, and Irish rnturners were held in cheek. 
coaching: In a game that was prime for 
A 
an Irish letdown, WeLc; made sure it did­
n't happen. I le treated the game as a 
"season opener," and it worked. Calling 41 passes was the perfect game plan. 
3.26 
overall: 'lbe Irish played a good game after getting offto a slow start. The defense wa'> inconsic;­tent, but the offense wac; ellident and effective. 
adding up the numbers 
Notre Dame's rushing yards total Saturday. The Irish ran the ball 23 times, almost half 
44 

of the attempts coming late in the game. 
6 
Touchdown passes by quarterback Brady Quinn, a Notre Dame record. Four of the receptions were 
made by Maurice Stovall, setting another record. 
Combined yards receiving by receivers Maurice Stovall and Jeff 
359

Samardzija. They caught all six TDs. 
83 
Yards safety Tom Zbikowski returned his interception for a fourth quarter touchdown. The return was the longest for a TO since 1998. 
Consecutive games Jeff Samardzija has caught a 
7 

touchdown pass, a Notre Dame record. He caught two touchdown passes Saturday. 
14 
Receptions by wide receiver Maurice Stovall, a Notre Dame single-game record. Four receptions were good for touchdowns. 
Total yards gained by the Notre Dame 
511 

offense, including 467 yards in the air. 
Total yards gained by the Notre Dame 
offense in last year's 20-17 loss to BYU,
276 
including 268 yards in the air. 
quarterbacks: Quinn was nearly perfect on Saturday, completing 32-of-41 passes for 467 yards and a school record six touchdowns. He committed no turnovers, playing flawlessly. 
running backs: Walker didn't see much action against BYU's blitzing 3-3-5 defense. lie picked up the blitzes well, however. Fullback Asaph Schwapp ran the ball well at the end of the game. 
receivers: Stovall and Samardzija com­bined for six touchdowns and 359 yards receiving, dominating the BYU second­ary. Fasano fumbled once, but it didn't end up hurting the Irish in the end. 
offensive line: Quinn was sacked just 
once by the blitzing BYU defense. The 
Irish had a hard time the few times 
they did try to run the ball, but most of 
that can be attributed to the blitz. 
defensive line: The line had four sacks. 
and Talley, Laws and Landri were 
among the Irish leaders in tackles, 
helping the Irish limit the Cougars to 
75 yards rushing on 34 attempts. 
linebackers: I Ioyte and Mays had trouble 
with covering short passes, and Crum 
was quiet. Mays had just two tackles. 
Thi'i group played decent, but nothing 
like they have in the past. 
defensive backs: Despite Zbikowski's 
It was nothing like last year's game against BYU, when Notre Dame put up just 17 points in a tough opening loss. And that loss was really the sea­son opener, unlike Saturday's game, which was just 
the second half of the season, despite what Irish head coach Charlie Weis said all last week. But the bitter taste that was left for the 


Irish after that Heather one was erased Van Hoegarden on Saturday with the win, Sports Writer thanks to Weis' offense. · "This team plays with more confi­dence, this team is more efficient, this team is more determined and they execute at a higher level," Cougars head coach Bronco Mendenhall said. 
All week, Weis got the players to put the loss behind them, deeming the BYU game the "season opener." 
"I think that the players bought into it very quickly, and I think that's what got their atten­
Stovall had shown just how valu­able he can be after dropping weight in the off-season to become a leaner receiver. 
"I think it greatly helped him," Weis said. "I think he was eating himself into a tweaner at 237 pounds." 
The leaner Stovall and Quinn domi­nated the Cougar secondary Saturday, completing passes and scoring at will. Stovall's 6-foot-5 frame proved too much for the signif­icantly shorter BYU secondary. 
"We wanted to start fast and come out strong to show people that we 
weren't going to feel sorry for ourselves after the tough loss," Quinn said. 
And this type of dominating perform­ance is just what the doctor ordered for the Irish, coming off a heartbreaking loss to No. 1 Southern California. 
"Losing to USC was a very emotional loss for us," Stovall said. 
"But at 
the 

tion, the fact that we ''I'm glad to have this can't allow themselves were starting the win under our belt., to let that overcome." second half of the And so in the "home season," Weis said. opener," it was the con­
Victor Abiamiri
And Weis' meth­nection between Qufnn ods were successful and Stovall that set the
Irish defensive end 
same time, good teams 

for the Irish in their "home opener," mostly due to the Irish offense, espe­cially wide receiver Maurice Stovall. 
After catching his 14th pass, a Notre Dame record, Stovall walked to the sideline, and Weis smiled, an in­game rarity for the Irish head coach. 
But Weis had reason to smile. 
tone. Throw in Jefl' 

Samardzija's 10 catch­es for 152 yards, and you don't have a bad threesome. Add 511 yards of total offense, and you've got an offense. 
"This is our season opener, so I'm glad to have this win under our belt," defensive end Victor Abiamiri said. 
But it wasn't just the 49 points that was put up by this Irish offense -it was the way they did it. It was the timing of the dominance. 
Notre Dame needed a game like this -one in which its quarterback and his receivers played almost flaw­lessly and the rest of the team played well enough. One in which Stovall showed the kind of dominating play­er he can be because of his size and speed. 
Notre Dame needed a big win to get over USC, and that's what it got. 
And so now the Irish can move on. Matt Leinart's fumble won't be the 
main topic anymore. 
Nor will what is 
being called the 
"Bush Push."

"Losing to USC was a 
Now, Notre Dame
very emotional loss for 
can talk about the us. But at the same final stretch -four 
time, good teams can't games it needs to 
win if it has BCS

allow themselves to let 
aspirations. Four 
that overcome. , games it can win. Four games that were started with a
Maurice Stovall 
big win in the "sea­
Irish receiver 
son opener." 

Weis is focused. In 
the postgame press conference, he was more interested in the score of the Tennessee­Alabama game than talking with the media. 
And so the Irish are off to a good start to the second half of the season or the beginning of a new season. But no matter how you look at it, the way the Irish finish will show just how good this team is. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd. edu 
Tuesday, October 25, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
.... 

Quinn's performance shatters records 

•

scoring summary 

1st  2nd  :kd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  7  14  21  7  49  
BYU  10  0  13  0  23  
First quarter  

Brigham Young 3, Notre Dame 0 Jared Mclaughlin 44-yard field goal with 9:51 remaining Drive: 9 plays, 42 yards, 5:09 elapsed 
Notre Dame 7, Brigham Young 3 Maurice Stovall10-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 7:12 remaining (D.J. Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 8 plays, 62 yards, 2:39 elapsed 
Brigham Young I 0, Notre Danw 7 Jonny Harline 12·yard reception from John Beck with 2:48 remaining (Mclaughlin kick) Drive: 4 plays, 51 yards, 1:54 elapsed 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 14, Brigham Young 10 Jell Samardzija 14-yard reception from Quinn with 10:33 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 7 plays, 52 yards, 2:10 elapsed 
Notrn Dame 21, BriJ.(ham Young I 0 Stovall15-yard reception from Quinn with 4:18 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 8 plays, 76 yards, 3:41 elapsed 
Third lJUarter 
Notre Danw 2S, Brigham Young I 0 Samardzija 21·yard reception from Quinn with 
12:50 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 6 plays, 75 yards, 2:10 elapsed 
Notre Danw 2S, Brigham Young 17 Beck 10-yard run with 9:11 remaining (Mclaughlin kick) Drive: 10 plays, 75 yards, 3:39 elapsed 
Notr·n Damn 2R, BriJ.(ham Young 23 Todd Walkins 10-yard reception from Beck with 
5:38 remaining (Mclaughlin kick) Drive: 7 plays, 33 yards, 2:58 elapsed 
NotrP Damn 35, Brigham Young 2:! Stovall 36-yard reception from Quinn with 4:47 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 2 plays, 75 yards, 0:51 elapsed 
Notrn DamP 42, Brigham Young 23 Stovall 42-yard reception from Quinn with 2:16 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 3 plays, 55 yards, 1:10 elapsed 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 4«J, Brigham Young 23 Tom Zbikowski 83-yard interception return (Fitzpatrick kick) 

statistics 

total yards 

rushing yards 
I

:syu 75 passing yards 

return yards 
BYU 199 time of possession 
~;~m ~ 
~ 
rushes-yards 

32-41-0 comp-att-int 25-45-2 
5-221 punts-yards 6-258 
3-2 fumbles-lost 0-0 ., 
11-77 penalties-yards 9-80 
27 first downs 26 
23-44 34-75 
passing 

Quinn 32·41-0 Beck 26·45·2 
rushing 

" 
Schwa~~ 8·27 Tahl 14·63 
receiving 

Stovall 14·207 Harline 8·100 Samardzija 10-152 Tahl 5·73 Fasano 5-55 Brown 5·52 
·' 
By KATE GALES 
Associare Spons Ediror 
Maurien Stovall easily caught Brady Quinn's pass late in the third quarter. As hn hrushnd off defenders and reaelwd the end zone. the nearby stu­dent seelion wnn t wild. 
Notre Dame had held a tnnuous 21-10 halftimn lnad over Brigham Young, but Quinn w1mt 7-for-10 with thren touch­downs in tlw third quarter, including two to Stovall in less than three min­utes, and sealed a 42-2:{ win for the Irish. 
"I d1dlnitPiy felt like wn needed onn more Itouchdown 1." <)uinn said. "I felt likn looking at the situation of the game, it kind of put things away." 
<)uinn's pass to Stovall did more than snal tlw Cougars' fatn. The junior quar­tnrbaek, a r.aptain and thrnn-ynar starter. has spnnt tlw season shattering Notrn Dame records and working his way to the top of nearly 1wery statistical call~gory for a quarterback. 
Tlw pass to Stovall mad!~ Quinn the first Irish quarterback to throw six touchdown passes in a game, breaking his own n~eord of f'ivn, which he set against Michigan State on Sept. 17. lie also brok1~ thn n~conl for single-season toudtdown passes with 20. Quinn's 2S7 lirst.-half passing yards arn also a nnw Irish rn1~ord. 
llowPVPr, ()uinn downplaynd his asn~nt in tlw r11eord books. "WI' just do what we IWI'd to do to l{l~t tlw win," lw said. 
<)uinn movnd into sncond on Notrn I>am!•'s all-tinw lists f1lr touchdown passes (4(,, bnhind Hon l'owlus' 52) and carnl'r passing yardagn with 6,769. lin is within 1,000 yards of l'owlus, who holds tlw currnnt reeord of 7,602. 
lin isn't focusing on car11nr r11cords, howiWI'r, sinen he said his earner is far from ovnr at Notrll Dame. 
''I'm going to be her11 for a while still," <)uinn said, wlwn asked about his plac11 in Notrn Dame history. "That's something for latnr on." 
<)uinn's ability to makn plays for the Irish was demonstrated in his third­quartnr pnrformancn. Al'tnr three ynars as a startnr, a colwsivn oiTnnsivn unit 
MATT SMEDBERG/The Observer Notre Dame quarterback Brady Quinn looks to throw as offensive lineman Dan Santucci looks to block. Quinn threw six touchdown passes in the Irish win Saturday. 
has devnloped good dynamics bntwnen Quinn and his rocnivers. 
''I'm dof'initoly eonf'ident in Brady," Stovall said. "Personally, I f1~nl that hn's made big strides since his freshman ynar. being morn aecuratn, bning more ol' a quarterback and vocal loader on and ofT the field, and that's made a big impact this snason." 
The conf'idenee goes both ways, as Quinn has faith in his receivers. 
"Anytime wn ean give Ithe recnivt~rsj the ball and lot thmn do what they do best ... I they a rei tremendous with the ball and getting yards a!'tnr thn catch," he said. 
()uinn wasn't the only one working his way up the record books on Saturday. 
Stovall became the first playnr in Notre Dame history to catch four touch­down passes in a game. llis 14 reeep­lions are also a school record. Both records, along with passing the 200­yard mark in the game, occurred on Quinn's sixth touchdown pass. 
"I don't think I evnr had in my earner a play that did that much," Stovall said. "At the same time. we just wantml to come down and scorn, put points on the board and allow our third-string play­ers to get some time." 
To Stovall, the victory is more impor­tant than the records. 
"Having the win makns it l'nel bettnr." said Stovall. "If we had lost the game, I n~ally wouldn't worry about !records] too mueh -not that I am now -but we had a nice productive game." 
Wide receiver Jeff Samardzija, who caught two touchdown passes, pointed out that the team emphasizes winning over individual statisties. 
"It feels great Ito set records! but our team has five wins and is rolling head­ing into the bye week," he said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 



Stovall, Samardzjia dominate Cougars 
Seymour's 39-year-old les and one sack in the game, but that number is
By KEN FOWLER 
school record set against game. deceiving given the context 
Sporrs Wril<'r 
Purd uo in 19b6. Junior defensive taekle of the Irish game plan. 
Shark attack Trevor Laws was impressed BYU's 3-3-5 defense, which 
Notrn Damn's duo of ft­Jeff Samardzija continued by Talley's performance. utilized a number of differ­l'oot-!i rnenivers paired up to his torrid touchdown pace, First appearance ent blitzes, led the Irish to break sevnral Irish records scoring twice in the game to Freshman wide receiver throw 41 passes on the day. Saturday in a 49-23 vietory bring his season total to 11 D.J. llord made his l'irst "I wouldn't say the run­ovnr BYU. touchdown recnptiuns. career appearance Saturday, ning game got stalled." 
Maurice Stovall and Jeff That tins Derrick Mayes' returning two kickoffs for 24 Quinn said. "It was just one Sarnardzija combined for singln-season record set in yards. of those games where you 359 yards and six touch­1994. However, Hord and game plan for certain things downs for llw Irish. "You're not out there for Brandon Harris collided on depending on the weakness­
Stovall set two school personal slats the l'irst of es of the defense. That was records and broke a land­or trying to set the returns, something we wanted to
"You're not out there
mark yardage f'igure on his records, w h i c h exploit today, was the pass­24-yard touchdown recep­you're just try­for personal stats or resulted in a ing game." tion with 2:16 rnmaining in ing to make fumble and Fullback Asaph Schwapp
trying to break 
tlw third quartnr. plays and any­a return of' led Notre Dame with eight
records, you're just
Stovall. quarterback Brady thing elsn is just three carries and 27 yards Quinn's top target on the just icing on trying to make plays yards. Saturday, setting personal day, broke the 200-yard the cake," Weis said bests in both categories. It
and anything else is 
mark for the first time in his Samardzija he plans on was the first time in his
just icing on the cake. " 
career with his final catch of said. using llord career that he led the Irish thn day. lie finished with Samardzija's more in the in rushing attempts and 207 yards receiving and four first touch­Jeff Samardzija upcoming yards. touchdowns. down, a 14-games, Captains
Irish receiver 
"We've always known yard roception especially in Notre Dame's captains for Maurice has boen capable of with 10:33 light of news the game were Quinn on doing so much, and today remaining in the second that wide receiver Hhema offense, linebacker Brandon was him showing what he's quarter, gave the junior a McKnight will not return this Hoyte on defense and Tom ahlo to do once he gets the scoring catch in each of the season. Zbikowski on special teams. ball in his hands," Quinn team's first seven games of "lllordl has improved over Quinn and Iloyte were elect­said. the season, a Notre Dame the course of the year," Weis ed captains at the beginning 
The touchdown was his record. said. "lllord hasl gotten real of the season, and the spe­
fourth receiving score of the Talley excels close to getting in the Inor­cial teams captain is select­afternoon and his 14th Sophomore defensive line­mal wide-receiver] rotation," ed on a game-by-game reception of the game -man Honald Talley got his Weis said. basis. both single-game school first career start Saturday Keeping It In the air records. for the injured Chris Frome. Notre Dame finished with Contact Ken Fowler at 
The 14 catehes broke Jim Talley recorded seven tack-just 44 rushing yards on the kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, October 25, 2005 

After a devastating loss to No. 1 Southern Calif(>n1ia on Oct. 15, the Irish took eare of business against Brigham Young on Saturday, defeating the Cougars 49-23. Quarterback Brady Quinn threw for a school record 
six touchdowns, and receiver Maurice Stovall had a record 14 receptions as the Irish dominated the team that beat them in tpeir opener last sea­son. Quinn was near perfect, throwing for 467 yards on 32-for-41 pass­ing with no interceptions. Stovall was joined by Jeff Samardzija, who had 10 receptions for 152 yards and two touchdowns. The Irish didn't run the ball against BYU's 3-3-5 blitzing defense, as they ran just 23 times, almost half of those attempts coming in the fourth quarter. Despite the final score, the game was close for a while. But ~th Notre Dame leading 28-23, Quinn engineered two consecutive drives that ended with Stovall catching touchdown passes, and the Irish were on their way. BYU quar­terback John Beck did his part with 317 yards passing and two touch­downs, but the Irish offense was too much. 
MATI SMEDBERGfrhe Observer 


Brady Quinn looks downfield, top left. Jeff Samardzija breaks two tackles, top right. Tom Zbikowski and Ronald Talley attempt to tackle BYU's Naufahu Tahi, middle. Maurice Stovall stiffarms a defender, bottom right. Ronald Talley (99) sacks BYU quarterback John Beck, bottom middle. Mike Richardson intercepts a pass, bottom left. 

THE OBSERVER 


·cENE
Tuesday, October 25, 2005 
page 15 
------------=-======================­


Photo courtesy of ign.com 
The Warriors patrol their turf In their action-packed game "The Warriors." The game 
Is available for X-Box and PlayStatlon 2. 
tlwir cash and rival gangs rmgagod. 
Combat. in thn ganw is easy and straight. forward, with a button for light attacks. !wavy attacks and grabs. If an Pnorny grabs you tlw movo can bo eounll~rod by hitting t.hn appropriate kny. A ragn motor fills as tlw maylwm mounts, unlocking now attacks. Somo of tho highor level attacks aw dtwastating to wateh. 
Tlw playnr can issuo simpln commands to tlw rost of tlw gang, such as "follow nw" or "eauso mayhem." This adds sonw dnpth to thn garno, as the baso gameplay is rPminisn~nt of old fighting gamos like "Final Fight" and "Stronts of Hagn." 
Dragonball die-hards 
courtesy of ign.com 

Majln Buu, left, faces Gotenks In "Dragonball Z: Budokai Tenkalchl." This game is 
-

There is oven a "scatter" command when the player is faeod with an overwhelming foren or the cops takn notiee of the gang aetivities. 
In this slow period before the holidays, "The Warriors" is a deeent way to spend $50 on a game. While it may not be as deop or as pretty as many of the games !wing sold, its still a solid enjoyabiP expe­ritmen for one or two playors. 
So come out to play with the Warriors, thorn's a good timo to be had. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
out for the PlayStatlon 2 gaming platform. 
t•ally as wnll. with tho morn diminutive characl.ors doing very little damage against tlwir largnr opponnnts. 
"Tt>nkakhi" is a mixod blessing in that I hn playnr can chooso tlw VPrsion of the rharartnr t.lwy want bdore the mateh. Insl.Pad of' having to acquire thn correet amount of' nrwrgy and having the prnroq­uisit.Ps mot., tlw playnr can instantly drooso to lwco11w tlw powt~red up vorsion of a romhatanl. Tlwy aro tn~ated as a nnw fightnr and arn choson lwl'orn tho round. 
Charartor-wisn, tho game has pltmty to oiTor t.lw gamPr. FPaturing close to 50 playahln draractnrs, with almost 90 altnr­llatP vPrsions of t~haraetnrs. llw gamn has pll'nty of dwin~s for tlw player. For the din-hard fan or the series, this is a dream come true. Fights between Broly and Supnr 17 are now possible due to the dnvnlopnrs at Spiko. 
or course, this game may not appeal to everyone. For those who don't know the difTnrnnee betwcnn a Frieza and a Cooler, tlwrn aro better lighters out thoro to be purchased. The game is still a doeont f'ightnr and offers the gamnr an nxpnri­ence not of'tcn found in other gamns on tho market. But the nature of the charac­tnrs and the appearance of giant monkeys may bP. enough to turn some people ofT from the experience. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 
RECIPE TIPS 
Halloween's favorite recipes 
By MAUREEN MALLOY 
Scene Writer 

Crisp autumn air and falling leaves always can make one crave foods made with fall's best llavors. 
llalloween is just around thP. corner, and pumpkin is one of the highlighted ingredients of the season. Pumpkin puree is an inexpensive and easy addi­tion to pins, cookies, breads and mom. Adding pumpkin to eookie recipes pro­vides an interesting twist to home­made favorites. Pumpkin soup is an unusual way to usn this versatile gourd and is a hearty, filling f'irst course. Also, pumpkin bread may be very common at this time of tho year, but this pumpkin bread pudding with caramel sauce is a tasty variation. 
Pumpkin Pecan White Chocolate Cookies 
2 1/4 cups all-purpose !lour 
1/2 teaspoon baking soda 
1/2 teaspoon pumpkin pie spice 
1 eup unsalted butter 
1 1/2 cups dark brown sugar 
1 eup solid pack pumpkin puree 
2 eggs 

1 teaspoon vanilla extract 
10 ounces white choc;olate, chopped 
1/2 eup pncan halves 
Preheat oven to 300 degrees Fahrenheit. Grease cookie sheets. In a large bowl, cream together the buttnr and brown sugar until smooth. Boat in thP eggs and vanilla, then stir in tho pumpkin puree until well blended. Combine the flour, baking soda and pumpkin pie spiee; stir into tho pump­kin mixture. Fold in the white choco­late and pecans. Drop by heaping spoonfuls onto the prepart~d cookio sheets. Cookies should be at least two inches apart. Bake for 20 to 22 min­utes in tho pn\heated oven, until bot­toms are lightly browned. Cool for livn minutes on baking sheets bnfore removing to cool on wire racks. Makes 36 cookies. 
Heeipn courtesy www.allroeipes.eom 
Pumpkin Soup 
2 tablespoons butter 1 cup ehopped onion 1 teaspoon dried thyme 1 ean stewnd tomatoes 1 can pumpkin puree, unsweetennd 4 eups low sodium eanned chicken stock. warmed Fresh gratod nutmeg Salt Pepper 1/2 cup hnavy cream 
2 seallions, thinly slieed 
In a heavy large saucepan, melt but­ter ovor medium lwat. Add onions and cook until tender. about five minutes. Stir in thyme, stewed tomatoes and pumpkin puree and bring t.o a simnwr. Stir in warnwd stock and return to a simmer and cook for 20 minutns. Purno soup in three hatches in a blendnr. Season with nutmeg, salt and pepper. Stir in cream and return to simnwr. Serve with sliced scallion. Serves four. 
Hecipe ·courtesy www.foodl.v.t~om 
Pumpkin Bread Pudding with 
Caramel Sauce 
Bread pudding 
2 cups half and half 
I 15-ounee can pun~ pumpkin 
1 eup (packNil plus 2 tablespoons 
dark brown sugar 
2 large eggs 
1 1/2 tnaspoons pumpkin pie spke 
1 1/2 tnaspoons ground einnamon 
1 1/2 toaspoons vanilla nxtract 
10 cups 1/2-inch cubes egg bread (about10-ounees) 1/2 eup golden raisins 
Caramel sauce 
1 1/4 eups (packnd) dark brown sugar 
1/2 cup (I stiek) unsalted butter 1/2 cup whipping crnam 
Powdered sugar 
For bread pudding: Prehnat oven to 350 dngrnns Fahrenhnit. Whisk half and half. pumpkin, dark brown sugar, nggs, pumpkin pie spiee, einnamon and vanilla nxtract in large howl to blend. Fold in bread cubes. Stir in golden raisins. Transfer mixture to I I­by-7-inch glass baking dish. Let stand 15 minutns. Bakn pumpkin bread pud­ding until testnr insnrted into center comes out dnan. about 40 minutes. 
Meanwhile, prepare caranwl saueP: Whisk brown sugar and butter in heavy nwdium saueepan ovnr medium heat until butter melts. Whisk in cream and stir until sugar dissolves and sauce is smooth. about. t.hren min­utes. Sift powdornd sugar over bn~ad pudding. Servo warm with caramt~l sauen. Makes six servings. 
Hedpn courtesy Epicurious.eom 
Contact Maureen Malloy at mmalloyI@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, October 25, 2005 
NFL 

Packers running back Green out for the year 
Ruptured right thigh tendon ends season of Green Bay playmaker 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY. Wis. -The Green Bay Packers are losing playrnak­ers even faster than they're los­ing games. 
Running back Ahman Green is the latest casualty. He was lost for the season with a ruptured right thigh tendon Sunday, when the Packers blew a 17 -point lead and lost to the NFL's most belea­guered team, the Minnesota Vikings. 
On Monday, coach Mike Sherman glumly announced that Green will undergo surgery this week and that wide receiver Robert Ferguson will miss up to a month with a torn lateral cruci­ate ligament in his left knee. 
That leaves the Packers (1-5) without their top two running backs and three of their top receivers as they head into a bru­tal stretch in which they face Cincinnati. Pittsburgh, Atlanta, Minnesota and Philadelphia. 
Brett Favre's arsenal now fea­tures third-down back Tony Fisher. who has rushed for 20 
yards on 14 carries this season, 
and newcomer ReShard Lee 
(seven carries for 7 yards) and a 
receiving corps that consists of 5­
foot-8 kick returner Antonio 
Chatman (10 catches) and former 
practice squad member Jamal 
Jones (zero catches) behind 
Donald Driver, who will surely 
see more double teams. 

"We're all filling each other's 
shoes right now," Driver said. 

Green is the fourth key player to sustain a season-ending injury, joining Pro Bowl wide receiver Javon Walker (ACL), backup run­ning back Najeh Davenport (ankle) and rookie receiver/returner Terrence Murphy {neck). 
"Oh, it's a big loss. That's our star running back and they ·always say we've got to establish 
the running game," Driver said. 

Coach Mike Sherman main­
tained his stance that the 
Packers, who haven't had a los­
ing season since 1991, won't cash 
it in now. And why should they? 
They play in the league's worst 
division with Detroit and Chicago 
atop the NFC North at 3-3. 

Asked if Green's injury was the 
final straw, however, general 
manager Ted Thompson retorted: "I don't think we're in a position where we think about having our backs broken. This is the NFL. Things like this happen in the NFL. Obviously, we're very sad that a player. especially a quality player like Ahman Green, gets hurt like that. But there's nothing you can do. You can't cry in your milk. You pick yourself up and try to help your team as much as you can. 
"I think this team is still playing hard. We lost a tough game and obviously everybody is down in the dumps. But this is a big man's league and you have to at like big boys and keep plugging along." 
Thompson, who will have two roster spots open when Green goes on injured reserve, spent the day searching for plug-ins at wide receiver and running back. 
"We'll look at any avenue possi­ble," he said. 

Green, who struggled this sea­son after four straight trips to the Pro Bowl. went down hard on his right knee when he was tackled by linebacker E.J. Henderson with 8 minutes left and was cart­ed oft' the field. He sustained the same injury on Oct. 3 and sat out the following game. He gained 49 yards on 16 carries against the Vikings. 

NFL 
San Francisco QB Smith strugges with sprained knee 
Associated Press 49ers will wait until later in the faith in Smith while adding a After two starts and two relief slow down for him a little bit, 
week to determine whether Smith ninth draft choice tor next spring appearances in place of Rattay, which is good. In two or three 
SANTA CLARA, Calif. -Alex can make his third career start. -but it left Ken Dorsey and Cody Smith is 23-of-50 for 200 yards. years, that is a good thing for a Smith sprained his right knee in Smith sprained two ligaments Pickett as the only backups for a He has thrown live interceptions quarterback." San Francisco's fifth straight loss, on the inside of his knee, and fluid 21-year-old rookie whose head is and is still waiting for his first But the 49ers' fate for this sea­and the 49ers aren't certain their built up behind his kneecap. still swimming at the speed of the touchdown pass, leading to a son will be determined in the next rookie franchise quarterback will Though he had previous back NFL game. quarterback rating of 17.5. few weeks. If the defense can't fix play against Tampa Bay on injuries from weightlifting, he had Smith underwent an MRI exam Smith also has been sacked 12 the glaring problems that allowed Sunday. never been hurt while playing Monday, and he'll have therapy times, ineluding five by the Washington to score 52 points, 
Smith, 8-of-16 for 92 yards and football in high school or at Utah. and rehabilitation before practice Redskins. Yet coach Mike Nolan Smith's struggles or successes one interception in the Niners' "I guess that's why I do things on Wednesday. believes Smith improved in the won't mean much to the 49ers' humiliating 52-17 defeat, was like that," Smith said, referring to "We've just got to see how 49ers' loss at Washington, specifi­record. hurt when his cleats got caught in his dangerous attempt to make a much I can tolerate," he said. cally citing his decreased Yet Nolan remained pleased the turf while LaVar Arrington play while Arrington was bearing The season has been equally turnovers after making five with his players' positive attitude tackled him in the first quarter. down on him. "Other people rough for Smith and his team­against Indianapolis earlier in the despite the stark statistical deficits 
He played the rest of the game, would have gone out of bounds or mates. The 49ers have fallen to 1-month. Smith fumbled three times and demoralizing losses faced feeling only momentary pain -gone down. Obviously, I need to 5 with dismal efforts on offense, against the Redskins, but lost only every week. The coach even cited but after his knee stiffened up learn from that." defense and special teams -but one. previous turnarounds he experi­overnight, the No. 1 overall draft Last week, the 49ers traded Smith's numbers are just as bad "He did drop the ball, but in enced as an assistant: the Giants' pick wore a heavy wrap and a Tim Rattay, Smith's veteran back­as you might expect from a rookie comparison, I thought that he rally from a 3-7 start to a 9-7 fin­brace Monday at the 49ers' train­up, to the Buccaneers for a low­quarterback on a rebuilding team played better," Nolan said. "How ish in 1994, or the Redskins' ing complex. He is listed as proba­round conditional draft pick. The that had the NFL's worst record much better? That's a good ques­rebound from an 0-7 start to a 7­ble on the injury report, but the move was meant to cement their last season. tion. I know that the game did 9 finish in 1998. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
(.  NOTICES SPRING BREAKERS Book Early and Save Lowest Prices Hottest Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE TRIPS OR CASH FREE MEALS/PARTIES BY 11/7 Highest Commission Best Travel Perks www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800-426-771 0 WANTED ALL STUDENTS Part Time Work $12.25 base/appt. Flexible sched­ules around classes. Gain exp. in customer sales & service, Conditions apply, all ages 17 & older, Call Today 574-273-3835.  BABYSITTER Wanted! Family in Granger-days & nights. Car rqrd. Call Laura 243-4776. Ten girls from the Class of 2005 looking for a place within walking distance to ND to rent tor the Tennessee weekend. Call Andrea at 651-308-9285. Loving family seeking adoption. Will pay med. exp. etc. & give much love to a baby you bring into the world. Call 269-429-3411. TICKETS WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570.  BUYING & SELLING ND FOOTBALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911. BUY/SELUTRADE OR SWAP ND FOOTBALL TIX. 289-8048. FoR RENT GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS andersonNDrentals.com YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart­ments available for 06-07 school year. Call today 235-7234. BLUE & GOLD HOMES. Best rates for weekend, monthly & yearly rentals. 57 4-250-7653.  HOUSES FOR RENT 2.3,4,5.6 Bedrooms includes all utilities, local phone, washer/dryer, security system. $400/student. Office 234-9334, Cell 315-2509 ndstudentrentals.com HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BEDROOM HOMES.GOOD CONDITION.CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call Sean 532-1895. WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­ROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential (Jamison) condo 11/21/05-5/06. Call Mary Anne Benedict 607-723-7363. FoR SALE  PERSONAL UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or some­one you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. ADOPTION: At home Catholic schooled mom and lawyer dad with 4 yr old big brother long to share their happy home and family with a baby. Financial security/bright future in S.CA beach community. Expenses paid as permitted. Legal/confidential. Please call Adrienne and Steve toll free anytime: 1-888-476-2220.  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5 Days from $299! Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica From $499! Campus Reps Needed! PromoCode:31 www.springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 Go, go, go White Sox, Chicago is proud of you! Go White Sox! 2 more wins ... Paulie, Paulie. Paulie! We don't have a curse, but we have a Jenks Forget the curveball, Bobby, throw him the heater Houston, you have a problem  
NOW HIRING Have a car? Need some extra cash? Jimmy John s is hiring drivers for all shifts. Contact Chuck at 286-0299.  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR $$: www.victorytickets.com  Rooms in private home for rent during ND football weekends or other ND-SMC events. Call 243-0658.  1 bdrm condo near ND. All appliances. $69,900. Call Kim Kollar 574-280-8160. CENTURY 21 JIM DUNFEE  SPRING BREAK ­Early Booking Specials-FREE Meals & Drinks ­$50 Deposit-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com  Light it up! Heather is not the sports editor anymore  

r------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, October 25, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NCAA FOOTBALL 




Longhorns jump Trojans in BCS standings 
Associated Press shouldn't worry the Trojans too 
much. 

NEW YOHK -TP.xas passed USC and the Longhorns are Southern California by a still the odds-on favorites to play whisker and moved into first for the BCS championship on plaee in the Bowl Championship Jan. 4 at the Hose Bowl in Series Monday, a swap that Pasadena, Calif. 

Thanks to the computer rank­ings, Texas slipped into first by the slimmest of margins-actu­ally TI-lE slimmest between Nos. 1 and 2 in the eight-year history of the BCS. Texas' average of .9763, of a possible 1.000, was just ahead of USC with .9756. 
"It's a compliment because it's a place we haven't been in a long time and it sets our stan­dard even higher," Texas coach Mack Brown said. 
USC is top-ranked in The Associated Press media poll, the USA Today coaches' poll and the Harris Interactive poll. The coaches' poll and the llarris poll make up two-thirds of a team's BCS grade. A compilation of six computer rankings account for the other third, with the highest and lowest ranking for each team dropped. Texas was lirst in all but one of those rankings. 
"I still don't know how the BCS rankings really work, except that computers are involved," USC coach Pete Carroll said. "And I don't know how you get mad at a comput­
er." 

Texas is second in all three polls, and gained a few points on USC from voters after a 52­17 victory over previously unbeaten Texas Tech on Saturday. Computer polls, how­ever, weigh heavily on strength of schedule and the win over the Hed Haidcrs gave Texas a big boost. 
USC's 51-24 victory over Washington (1-6) extended its winning streak to 29 games but did nothing to help the Trojans in the computer rankings. Struggling Arizona State <:~-4)­which was ranked when USC. won at Tempe on Oct. 1 -is also hurting the Trojans in the strength-of-schndule category. 
USC was atop one computer ranking and second in three others. One computer had the Trojans fourth; anoth1~r fifth. 
Virginia Tech is still in third in the standings. Georgia and Alabama were next, while UCLA moved up threP. places to sixth, putting the nation's six unbeat­en teams at the front of the BCS rankings. 
Miami, LSU, Penn State and Florida State rounded out the top 10. 
BCS analyst Jerry Palm said the gap between USC and Virginia Tech in the polls is so big that the Ilokies would have to be at least four spots ahead or thn Trojans in each of the six computnr rankings to catch them in the standings. 
"USC has nothing to worry about, as long as tlwse poll margins stay the same," Palm said, "and one and two arn as solid as we've P.ver seen in the BCS at this point in thn season." 
USC plays Washington Statn (3-4) on Saturday, thnn finishes the season against four teams with winning records ­Stan!i1rd (4·21. No. 24 Calili1rnia (6-2), No. 22 rrnsno State (5-1) and No. 8 UCLA (7-0). 
"USC is in the middle of a lull in the sehndule," Palm said. "Texas is about to hit a lull." 
The Longhorns finish the reg­ular season against Oklahoma State (3-4), Baylor (4-3), Kansas (3-4) and Texas A&M (5-2). 
Virginia Tech's next two games are against No. 1 :~ Boston College ((1-l) and No. 6 Miami (5-1). so it wouldn't he surprising if the llokies elose some of the gap in the eomputnr rankings if they win. 
But unless a large group of votP.rs in tlw llarris and coach­es' poll move thn llokies past USC and/or Texas in the polls, coach Frank Beanwr's team is still looking at b1~ing thn odd team out. 
Being No. 1 in the polls though not in the BCS is nothing new to USC. The Trojans fin­ished the 2003 regular s1~ason atop the AI' and eoaches' polls, but wern third in tim BCS stand­ings behind Oklahoma and LSU and left out of tlw BCS titll' game. 
CoiiPgl' football had split champions that season wlwn I.SU beat. the Sooners in t.lw Orange Bowl and USC beat Michigan in thn Hosn Bowl ­the first timP since the BCS was implenwntnd and exactly what the systmn was creatnd to elimi­nate. 
Aftnr USC was crowned by tlw AI' media pollsters and I.SU by the coaches, the BCS deeidnd to change tim formula for l:akulat.­ing the standings, putting morn emphasis on the polls. 



Welcoming the Stranger: HoJRitality in the ChriJtian Tradition 
Join Fellow students and faculty for dinner and an evening of faith-based discussion 
Wednesday, November 2 at 6:00pm 
Notre Dame Stadium Press Box 
Featuring guest speaker Rev. Mark· Poorman, C.S.C. 
Vice Pretfident_(or Student Ajfaird and Atltfociale Projedtfor of Theo/,~qy 
If interested, e-mail the Center for Ethics and Culture at ethics2@nd.edu. Please give us your name, local phone number and address. Spaces are limited to the first seventy students who respond. We welcome all students regardless of faith cotntnitment. 
Spon,1ored by the JVotre J)ame Center for Ethic.! and Culturt• 
http://ethicscenter.nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 25, 2005 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Injury sidelines top setter David 
By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Wrirer 
Saint Mary's went 1-2 last week, but the Belles' biggest loss did not show up in the standings. 
In a loss Tuesday at Calvin, set­ter Amanda David suffered a broken hand, an injury that will force her to miss the remainder of the season. David was a cru­cial part of the Saint Mary's attack, averaging 9.27 assists per game. 
The Belles, who entered the season without a setter on their roster, were forced to turn to Michelle Turley to fill the void. Despite her inexperience, Turley ran an efficient offense, record­ing 41 assists in a victory over Tri-State University in five games Saturday. 
Belles' coach Julie Schroeder­Biek said her team adapted slowly to the change at first, but hit its stride Saturday. 
"Michelle jumped into the role and ran a good offense," Schroeder-Biek said. "The rest of the team had trouble adjusting at Calvin, as you can tell by the score [30-11, 30-14, 30-13]. Saturday, though, we played 
. well, and so did Tri-State. We were fortunate to come out with a win." The Belles also battled Hope College Saturday and lost in three games. Hope leads the MIAA with a 14-0 conference record. While Schroeder-Biek wasn't entirely pleased with her team's play against Hope, she acknowl­edged the strength of the confer­ence front runner. "We pulled ourselves out of the match with some lapses in serve reception. You can't dig holes against a good team, and Hope is a very good team," Schroeder­Biek said. While the offense was slowed at times due to the personnel changes Saturday, the defense was solid all day. Libero Anne Cusack led the way with 52 digs in Saturday's contest, including 40 in the victory over Tri-State. Cusack leads the MIAA with 5.64 digs per game. With two conferenee matches remaining in the season, the Belles are part of a four-way tie for firth place in the MIAA with a 4-10 conference record. They face last place Kalamazoo in a pivotal match tonight. The Belles defeated Kalamazoo in a five­game nail biter earlier this sea­son. Saint Mary's will finish the reg­ular season when it faces fourth 
place Adrian in another road contest Thursday. The Belles will be seeded anywhere from fifth to eighth in next week's conference tournament, depending on this week's results. 
Schroeder-Biek's goal entering the Kalamazoo match was to get Turley comfortable in the setter position. 
"We want to get more reps for Michelle to build her confi­dence," Schroeder-Biek said. 
In addition, the Belles are still adapting to changes in position forced by David's injury. Middle hitter Shelly Bender will move to the outside to fill the spot vacat­ed by Turley, and senior Talia Matury-Vacaro is expected to move into the middle hitter posi­tion. 
Lack of experience with the new lineup, accompanied by a new defensive scheme, left the Belles out of position at times over the weekend. Tightening up 
positioning was a  concern of  
Schroeder-Biek  entering  
tonight's match.  

"We had to shift everything after the injury. We are just try­ing to get everybody comfortable with everything right now," she said. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAMS IN 

DUBLIN, IRELAND 
FALL 2006, SPRING 2007, AY 2006-7, SUMMER 2006 
INFORMATION MEETING 
WITH CLAUDIA KSELMAN AND RETURNEES OF THE PROGRAM 
THURSDAY,OCTOBER27 5:30PM 129 DBRT 
Application Deadlines: NOVEMBER 15, 2005 FOR FALL, SPRING, AND ACADEMIC YEAR 2006-7 MARCH 1, 2006 FOR SUMMER 2006 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 


esdav Oct. 26 Saturdavo Indiana at 6:00pm vs. Seton Hall First 400 fans receive First 500 fans will rec1111ve liP balm on aleash aNO luggage tag sponsored bV sponsored bv ·dB 

-~~~~--~-~--­

-------~-~----~­
Tuesday, October 25, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC SoccER 
Belles post 1-1-1 fall break mark, eye records 
Team can become first in program history to finish No. 3 in MIAA 
By KYLE CASSILY Spons Writer 
On pae11 to set a school r11corrl in conl'nrence wins and to sPnJro the highest confnr­mu~n linish 1wnr artnr a solid 1­1-1 showing in its last three games, the Saint Mary's soccer toam has no intontion of letting these accolades slip out of its grasp. 
The Belles kicked off their fall break by trouncing Alma College 5-0 at home, which was followed by a tough 1-1 tie on the road at Olivet. 
Thn week's finale came against the MIAA's best, Calvin. and tlw women riearly pulled oiT an enormous upset before falling 1-0. 
Saint Mary's has never fin­ished the season with ten con­ference wins or in third-place or higher MIA!\ standing in its history. 
But with three games left to play and a 7-5-1 conference record, it can reach ton wins and secure the third-place spot by winning out. 
"Ovorall, as a team we are doing somo really good things right now, despite going 1-1-1 last week," Belles coach Caryn Mackenzie said. "We are play­ing some really good soccer, even though that doesn't always show up on the scorn­board." 

Alma could not withstand the quick Bolle's attack and gave up two goals bol'ore the nnd of the lirst half. 
Freshmen Lauron !linton and Mandy Thomson tallied tlw two scores and sparked nunwrous other offensive opportunities against the over-matehml Alma dol'nnders. 
"It started out fairly cmn peti­tivn. then we basically just took over," Mackenzie said. "We just took it to them. and they WPI'I1 never in the game." 
!linton struck again shortly into the second frame and was 
followed by goals from Sarah DuBree and Carrie Orr to put the game out of Alma's reach at 5-0. 
The Belles' defonse held strong through­out with help from Shannon Culbertson, Maura Schoen, Mary Esch and goalkeepers 
Laura Ileline and Nicole Leach. 
The Belles traveled to Olivet College next and squared off in a title match-worthy MIA!\ heavyweight bout ending in a 1-1 tie. 
The game rornained a scorn­less fight until the 83rd minute of regulation. The Comets snuck a squeaker past lleline to take the 1-0 lead, but the Belles refused to quit. 
They rallied back with a llur­ry of punches deep into Comet territory and managed to light the lamp with under three min­utes lel't to play. Lauren llinton tied the game at 1-1 on a well­executed shot. 
llinton got the ball on the top lel't of the 18-l'oot line and ripped ofT a shot left-footed. The Comet goalkeeper was caught ol'f-angln, but managed to tip the ball as it came across tho not towards tho right post. 
Academic Integrity at Notre Dame: What Role for Faculty? 
The rise in plagiarism and cheating on college campuses poses a significant threat to higher education. Drawing upon surveys of students and faculty on hundreds of college caf'rl)uses, including Notre Darre, the presenter will discuss the if'rl)ortant role that faculty and others can play in reducing student engagerrent in academic dishonesty. 
Prof. Don McCabe Rutgers University 
Founder and Past President of the Center for Academic Integrity 
4:30-5:30 PM, Wednesday, October 26, 2005 Jordan Auditorium, Mendoza School of Business 
Sponsored by the University Code of Honor Committee 
The tip 1~anw too late. however. and Hinton narned the tally. 

"Siw's just hnen really stnady and consistent for us in tnrms of putting thn ball in back of net," Maeknnzie said of Hinton. "For a fn~shman. slw's poisml, slw's composed and shn comes to play nvery gamn. She is very intellignnt up top, and she real­ly plays well off the hall. Slw's found her way t111·ough and bnhind defm1ses." 
Thn two teams battled through an over ti nw pn riod without success. and t.lw ganw finishod knottPd at I-I. 
"Tiw tie was disappointing," Mackenzin said. "At least on onn lnvnl, though, we were down by a goal and answnrml with three minutes left. so that's something to fnPI good about, dnspitn wn fplt we 
should have won

"Overall. as a team 
tlw game." 

we are doing some Calvin came 
really good things on).o thn Belles' campus for
right now, despite 
Saturday's ganw

going I-I-I last 
arter scoring :l4 

week." goals in its last 
three games, 
against Adrian,

Caryn Mackenzie 
Tri-State and 


Belles coach 
Kalamazoo 
Colleg11. 
With that in mind. Saint Mary's favored a dol'onsn-heavy approach to stop the intimidating Knight's attack. 
Tho lone goal canw ten min­utes into the.seeond half and was enough to put the Bolles away 1-0. Saint Mary's dnfensP proved equal to tlw task and was led by an outstanding per­formance in net by llelinn, who made 1<) saves in tlw ganw. 
"She had a great game. Honestly, she took charge in the back. she was constantly t a I k i n g and s u p porti n g lw r teammates." Maeknnzie said. "She stayed l'oeus1\d and in spito of the fact that. OIW goa] got. in. she playPd a gn1at game." 
Calvin benefited from t.hP Bollc1s' misfortune as well. Attlu:knr !linton wnnt down in thn second hall' wlwn slw was hit with a hall in tlw l'aee and r.ould not return. 
To compensate, they shifted an extra attacker up top. 
() e s pi t e s e v 11 r a I v a I ian l attempts. the BPIIPs attack eould not r.apitaliw against a del'nnsn that has allowed only onn goal in MIA!\ play all sea­son. 
"Wiwn you are playing surh a dnl'nnsn-minded ganw. you only gnt. that handful of chances, and you don't always exncuto," Mackenzin said ''I'm proud of our effort and staying committed to our ganw plan. Wn wnn~ nxtrnnwly l'.ompnti­tivn." 
Tlw Bnllns will rwxt. go into ac:tion on Wndnnsday at. Adrian Collngn. 
Contact Kyle Cassily at 
kcassily@nd.edu 
Write for 
Sports. 




1-4543. 


page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, October 25, 2005 
NO VOLLEYBALL 




Irish sweep Hoyas, extend winning streak to 11 
been really, really good," sheBy TOM DORWART 
said. "Our defense has been 
Sports Writer 
really, really good. It hasn't really mattered who's on the Notre Dame is a streaky other side of the net, the face team -in a good way. that we're continuing to play 
On a day of many streaks, at a high level is really impor­the Irish kept perhaps their tant to us." most important one going -Over fall break, the Irish their 11-match winning­also swept DePaul and South streak. Florida and beat non-confer­
Sunday afternoon, No. 9 ence foe Illinois State 3-1. The Notre Dame (18-1, 8-0 Big wins set up a showdown with East) swept No. 6 Louisville Georgetown (6-(20-0, 8-0 Big
"It's been a lot of
15, 2-7 Big East) East) Saturday 30-12, 30-22, 30-fun. We've played at the Joyce 20 in the 300th Center.
at a high level. ,,
match at the Brown says Joyce Center. her team needs Other notable Debbie Brown no added incen­streaks include Irish coach tive in 
Notre Dame's 77­match winning-streak at the Joyce Center against conference opponents and its 15 consecutive sea­sons with a winning home record. 
"We are playing really well right now," coach Debbie Brown said. "It's been a lot of fun. We've played at a high level." 
Against the Hoyas, the Irish offense continued to click. Three players finished with double-digit kills -seniors Lauren Kelbley (10) and Lauren Brewster (10) and sophomore Adrianna Stasiuk (14). 
The defense did its part, as well. 
Sophomore A~hley Tarutis finished with 10 digs. Stasiuk added 10. Junior Danielle Herndon dug 12 and senior Meg Henican notched 15. 
"I think that our offense has 
USB YOUR SUPSI< POWSI<S!! 

BPIC WILL BB INTBRVIBINING ON C~MPUS FOR: 
PRO\JECT MJ:\NAGEMENT 
PROBLEM SOLVER 
SOFTWJ:\RE DEVELOPER 
Information Session Wednesday, 10/26/05 LaFortune Student Center Foster Room 6:00pm-8:00pm 
Check out our web site at www.epicsystems.com for additional opportunities­all include great benefits and a casual work environment. Relocation to Madison, WI is required. 
Apply online through your campus career center! 

5301 Tokay Blvd. Madison, WI 53711 
Saturday's 
match for the Big East driver's seat. While her team has prepared well for every opponent, she's glad the "big one" is finally here. 
"The team will be motivated for sure," she said. "I don't think there's anything we need to do. There's going to be plenty of motivation. We know what's at stake. It's going to be great. 
''I'm glad it's finally here, and we can talk about it and prepare for it." 
She and the Irish will have plenty of time to prepare. Their match against the unde­feated Cardinals is their next one. They'll have the entire week to practice and break down film. 
"Well, we'll have tape of them on Tuesday," Brown said. "We actually have a TV match that they played a week or so ago that we have 
not looked at yet, so now's the time to start planning and see what to adjust, to work on whatever their strengths or weaknesses are that we feel like we can take advantage 
0.f" 

Though her team is on a long winning-streak, she is wary of the streaking Cardinals. And she certainly knows the Cardinals' streak is longer. 
"There's plenty to work on," she said. "We know we're going to have to have a good game-plan against their offense and against their star player, who's just been play­ing very, very well. 
"[6-3 Outside hitter] Lena Ustymenko -she's very, very good," Brown said. "I think that's going to be key for us. We're going to have to neu­tralize her for sure, but they have other weapons as well. It will be fun to look at some tape and then come up with a plan and be able to just get out and play again against a very, very good team." 
Last season, the Irish won both the Big East regular sea­son and conference tourna­ment championships. The Irish have won the Big East regular season title nine of the past 10 years and the tournament title eight of the past 10 years. 
So, all other streaks aside, an irish win Saturday would keep much more than just their winning streak in tact. It would sustain their lengthy Big East championship streak. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 



Mergers & Acquisitions Advisory Services 
The CIT Mergers & Acquisitions Advisory Group invites senior business students to submit resumes for analyst positions in our new middle­market investment banking practice. 
Please submit resumes through GO IRISH by midnight, October 26 

Tuesday' 0 ctober 25, 2005 The Observer 
+ PAID A DVERTISEMENT page 21 
~ 
MOMDA'I, OCtOBER t4


ucidade das Mulberes" 
Adocumentary on the matriarchal religious tradition of Candomblii. film director l~ZARO fiiRIII and serivt writer/art director ISIIBELLII LIIGO will introduce the film and answer questions. Mesburgll Ceoter Auditoriulll @ 7 •"' 
tOESDA'I, OCtOBER tS 
.. Mandinga em Manhattan" 
Afilm on hoW tbe capoeira spread around the world. LAZARO fiiRIA and script 
writer/art director ISIIBELLII LIICO will introduce the film and answer questions. Portions of this film Vlere filmed at Notre Dame and in South Bend. Mesburgll Ceoter Auditorhllll @ 7 •"' 
WEDMESOA'I, OCtOBER t6 


Sururu Ma Roda 
Concert featuring tUlZ£ CI\RVAU40 Clav High School @ 7 pm 
tMORSDA'I, OCtOBER t7 
. \'-r t. d' . B 
.,.Bate-tPfapt~
ocl3 nour ,ea unng 1scusS10n on raz1 1an current even s rom VISI 1ng 
S

Brazilianisis: JAil tiOHMAti-fR£tiCII, liMOTIIt J. POWER, and GABRIELA TAROUCO 
Mesburgll Ceoter Great Mall @ 6 •"' 

fR\OA'I, OCtOBER t8 
~



Sururu Ma Roda 
~ 

Ashowcase of choro, forrii, mafl~e, baiio and UNIVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME

samba music. Concert featuring tiiU£ CARIIALIIO 
Reekers @ 7 pm 

Program in Portuguese & Brazilian Studies These events• were made possible by the
razllian M' . generous funding otth• 
B lnlstry of Culture 0KELLOGG INSTITUTE 
-II I




--==~! 
1 1 I 1 
I 
I I I I I 
I I 
:j 
I 
I 
I I I 
I I I I I I I I I 
l 
I 
1 
1 
1 
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, October 25, 2005 
Bush, USC avoid Irish upset bid 
Trojans win 28th straight as Leinart sneaks past ND defense for winning score 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
Reggie Bush made Notre Dame 
Stadium his personal dance l'loor, 
evading Irish defenders all game. But 
it was quarterback Matt Leinart's 
rushing touchdown with three seconds 
remaining that proved to be the differ­
ence as No. 1 Southern California 
defeated No. Y Notre Dame 34-31 in a 
game that exceeded all expectations. 
Leinart completed a 61-yard pass on fourth-and-nine, on a fade route downfield that Irish cornerback Ambrose Wooden nearly broke up. Instead of sealing a Notre Dame victo­ry, the play moved the ball to the 13­yard line. 
"We had the perfect defense -they just made a play," Irish coach Charlie Weis said. "They threw a fade route into a Two-Tampa -you don't throw fade routes into Two-Tampa, but this guy did and he made a play." 
Even though the convnrsion led to 
thn game-winning score, Weis fdt the 
contest could have been won earlier. 
"We had the opportunity to ice the 
gamn on ofTnnse, wn had the opportu­
nity to win the game on special teams, 
we had an opportunity to win the 
game on defense," Weis said. "I think 
that if you have an opportunity to end 
the game, you better do it." 
Unfortunately for the Irish, they did­
n't. 
Notre Dame linebacker Corey Mays 
stopped Leinart short of the goal line 
on third down. forcing the quarter­
back to fumble out of bounds. The 
clock ran out, and Notre Dame fans 
rushed the field. 
But the officials ruled that the ball 
had been fumbled backwards, out of 
bounds, and that seven seconds should 
be put back on the clock, giving the 
Trojans one last breath of life. 
With no timeouts remaining, 
Southern California had one play and 
opted to go for it on fourth down from 
the Notre Dame one-yard line. 
And they eapitalized. 
After being stalled on his first move 
up the middle by the Notre Dame 
defensive front, Leinart spun left and backpeddled into the end zone for the game-winning touchdown. 

"I just felt that they did a bad job of talking it through," Weis said of the officials. ''I'm not blaming that call for us losing that game, I'm just not going to do it." 
USC coach Pete Carroll 
said after the game that a "When you're game-tying field goal was playing a gameout of the question 
like this, you need 

because of how the Notre Dame offense had played a couple big plays all game long. or you're not going 
"The last sequence 
to win."

there, I did not want to go to overtime," Carroll said. "I thought they were mov­Charlie Weis ing too well on
way 
Irish coach 

offense. We were going to go for the win if we had a chance to do it." 
The Irish had the game within reach when the Trojans had a third-and-19 from their own 16-yard line with 1:32 remaining. 
Leinart -who finished the game 17­of-32 for 301 yards passing -com-

TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer 
Irish quarterback Brady Quinn heads for the end zone on a 5-yard touchdown run to put Notre Dame ahead 31-28 with 2:04 left in the game. 
pleted a 10-yard pass to Bush, leading to the fourth-and-nine first down eon-
version. "[Bush Marshall 

isl the reincarnation of 
Faulk. That's what he is," Weis said. "Every time he touches the ball, he can possibly score." Bush proved just that, rushing 15 times for 160 yards and three touch­downs-constantly elud­ing defenders. Despite Bush's three­touchdown day, Notre Dame edged Southern California in time of pos­session, first downs and total offensive plays, 
keeping the game tight to 
the very end. 
The Irish drove the length of the field and took the load 31-28 on a 5­yard Brady Quinn touchdown run with 
2:02 left. 

Quinn finished the gamo 19-of-35 with 264 yards and two scores, one rushing and one passing. On the final Irish drive, the quarterback was 4-of-4 for 52 yards passing, including strikes of 18 and 15 yards to Jeff Samardzija and Maurice Stovall. 
Samardzija finished the game with six catches for 99 yards and a first­quarter touchdown -his ninth on the season -that evened the score at 14. 
"We definitely had the opportunity to put them away, but we didn't," Quinn said. 
The Irish dominated time of posses­sion. keeping their offense on the f"ield for 38:40. 
"Obviously, I was running the ball a whole bunch because I wanted to keep it away from them," Weis said. 
Running backs Darius Walker and Travis Thomas split carries for much of the game. 
Walker rushed 1Y times for 72 yards, and Thomas rushed 18 times for 52 yards, including a 16-yard touchdown that put Notre Dame on the board with 
3:06 lef"t in the first quarter. 
The Irish came up with a big play in the second quarter, as safety Tom Zbikowski returned a punt for a touch­down to take a 21-14 Notre Dame lead heading into halftime. 
"We thought that we needed some game-changing plays, and we had a couple," Weis said. "When you're play­ing a game like this, you need a couple big plays or you're not going to win." 
Contact Bobby Griffin 
at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
•

scoring summary 

1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
usc  14  0  7  13  34  
Notre Dame  7  14  0  10  31  

First quarter 
Southern California 7, Notre Dame 0 Reggie Bush 36-yard touchdown run with 8:53 remaining (Danelo kick) Drive: 2 plays, 50 yards, 0:34 elapsed 
Southern California 7, Notre Dame 7 Travis Thomas 16-yard touchdown run with 
3:06 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 13 plays, 80 yards, 5:47 elapsed 
Southern California 14, Notre-Dame 7 LenDale White 3-yard touchdown run with 2:02 remaining (Danelo kick) Drive: 3 plays, 61 yards, 1:04 elapsed 
Second quarter Notre Dame 21, Soutlwrn California 14 Jeff Samardzija 32-yard touchdown reception from Quinn with 12:27 remaining(Fitzpalrick kick) Drive: 10 plays, 72 yards, 2:25 elapsed Notre Dame 21, Southern California 14 Tom Zbikowski 60-yard punt return with 10:23 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) 
Third quarter Southern California 21, Notre Dame 21 Reggie Bush 45 yard run with 2:50 remaining (Danelo kick) 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 24, Southern Calif"ornia 21 Fitzpatrick 32-yard field goal with 14:50 remaining Drive: 8 plays, 40 yards, 3:21 elapsed 
Southern California 28, Notre Dame 24 Reggie Bush 9-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 5:09 remaining (Danelo kick) Drive: 10 plays, 80 yards, 2:19 elapsed 
Notre Dame 31, Southern California 28 Brady Quinn 5·yard run with 2:04 remaining (Fitzp kick) Drive: 8 plays, 87 yards, 3:05 elapsed 
Southern California 34, Notre Dame 31 Matt Leinart 1·yard run with 0:03 remaining (Danelo kick failed) Drive: 9 plays, 75 yards, 2:01 elapsed 

statistics 

total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

return yards 

time of possession 

.. ' ·~~~~ 
. ...... 

~ ~ 
rushes-yards

52·153 31-175 19-35-1 eomp-att-int 17-33-2 5-39.8 punts-average 6-45.8 2-1 fumbles-lost 0-0 6·62 penalties-yards 9-98 28 !irst downs 20 
passing 

Quinn 19·35·1 Leinart 17-32-2 
rushing 

Walker 19-72 Bush 15·160 Thomas, T. 18·52 White 10-26 
receiving 

Samardzija  6·99  Jarrett  4-101  
Fasano  4-86  Smith  4-90  
Walker  4-43  Bush  4-35  

tackling 

Rivers 12 Wooden 7 Ramsey 11 Hoyle 7 
-
Tuesday, October 25, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
FOOTBALL 
This year, matchup lives up to buildup 
Week of anticipation culminates in pulse-pounding Notre Dame-USC game 
"instant elassie," it took the two­By MATT PUGUSI lime dnl'ending national ehampi­

Associate Sports Editor 
on Trojans all 60 minutes to 
knoek oil' the Irish, 34-31. 

With all thn hypn surrounding "It definitely was an exciting arguably thn bigg1~st game at game," Notre Dame safpty Tom Notn~ Damn Stadium in thn last Zbikowski said. "We're not wor­dneadP, it would havn bonn 1msy ried if it was a dassie or not, we for tlw eontnst bntw1wn No. 9 just want to be a part of Notre Not.n~ Damn and No. I Southern Dame history, that's why we Calif"ornia to fail to live up to eame here." nxpm~talions. And part of history tlwy are. 
In thn end, tho extraordinary In a battle that resembled a guost list. Stadium pop rally, heavyweight title bout, the two ESI'N's extensive covnrngn -squads-fully awam of what ineluding both was on the line -Colloge <;amoday exchanged blows,
"It was very
and Cold Pizza on riding waves of campus-and the dramatic ... a momentum, only to donning of Uw his­be knocked back
wonderful day
toric grnen jnrsoys minutes later. 
for college football. " 
for tlw first lime Af't.er the Trojans sinee 2002 may drew first blood, not have been Pete Carroll the Irish immedi­Pnough to mateh ately responded, fans, players and analysts across receiver Dwayne Jarrett for 61 dassic channels and all," Carroll
USC coach
thn drama on thP refusing to allow the college football world. yards on fourth-and-nine, Leinart said. "[Leinart! looked at the linn field. Southern California With half the contest left to once again had to convert to of scrimmage and said 'I don't 
"This was an extraordinary to extend the early lead 7-0 play, the hype that accompanied extend Southern California's 27-think I ean get it.' lin turned weekend," USC coach Pete advantage. the face-off between the bitter game winning streak and pre­around to Heggie and said some­Carroll said. "The Stadium was When USC jumped back in rivals had already b!len justified. serve hope for a third straight thing, and Heggie said, 'You've awesome, the fans~were awe­front 14-7, NotrP Dame was up to As fitting in a historic contest national ehampionship. got to go.' It was very dramatie, some, the buildup and [Notre tho challenge, returning the favor that featured the ebb and flow of Amidst considerable controver­exciting as ean be, I hopn every­Dam!l'sl rallies and !Wilrything with a scorn of its own, before last Saturday's showdown, the sy concerning fumbles, clock body that was watching this they did, all the peopl!l they slipping ahead of the Trojans, 21-game came down to one final, management and a helpful push game won't forget it-it was a brought in to make this so spe­14. aU-or-nothing play. With the Irish from Trojans running back wonderful day for college foot­eial. the grllen jllrsnys and the With the final whistle of the dinging to a 31-28 lead, having Reggie Bush, Leinart made it. ball." whole thing, it's something we'll first hall', the Irish still leading by alrmtdy blown a chance to secure "It kind of looked like it might never forget." seven, the magnitude of the con­vietory seconds earlier when USC be historic the way it finished up Contact Matt Puglisi at 
In a game pegged as an test was blindingly apparent to quarterback Matt Leinart hit for everybody that watches those mpuglisi@nd.edu 

Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture 1 s Catholic Culture Series Presents ... 
VALOR, FELLOWSHIP, AND SACRIFICE: 

TOLKIEN'S CATHOLIC MYTH 
11 ).R.R. Tolkien: A Catholic Writer for Our Uncatholic Age 11 
Professor Ralph Wood 
University Professor of Theology and Literature at Baylor University 
Tuesday, October 25 
7:30pm 

138 DeBartolo Hall 
Also Coming ... 
I / 

Tuesday, November 1 Professor Joseph Pearce: 11 Tolkien: Truth and Myth 11 
Professor of Literature at Ave Maria University 
Tuesday, November 8, 2005 Professor Mary Keys: 11 Tolkien•s Literary Politics of Friendship and Humility 11 
Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame 
Tuesday, November 15, 2005 Mr. Greg Wright: 11 Missing the Spirit: The Scourging of the Shire, Tolkien•s Catholicism, and Peter Jackson's Return of the King 11 
Writer in Residence at Puget Sound Christian College 


For more nformat on go to eth cscenter.nd.edu 

Mishawaka/South Bend 
University I'Jrk Mall tlm~atf•d in th\' Food Cnurtl !574) 243-8016 
The amount of music your ROKR El can hold depends on the compression rate of your songs and the amount of media stored on your phone. The Motorola ROKR El is aproduct of Motorola, Inc. Motorola and the Stylized MLogo are registered in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. All other product or service names are the property of their respective owners. ©Motorola.lnc. 2005. TM &© 2005 Apple. The iTunes and iTunes logo are trademarks of Apple. By using the iTunes software you are agreeing to the software licenses in this package. Cingular and the graphic 1con are trademarks of Cingular Wireless LLC. Coverage not available in all areas. ©2005 Cingular Wireless. All rights reserved. 
,·•.'..•·. 
:w.........,': 
, ......-r.-..,:~>.•: 
·,.:·"":.. .: 

Tuesday, October 25, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 


The Center for Ethics and Religio11s Va/11es in Business and 
Proudly Present 

Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Transparent Leadership" 
Herb Baum Retired CEO of Dial Corporation and author of 
The Tran~parent Leader: How to Build a Great Company Through Straight Talk, Openness, and Accountability 
Tuesday, October 25, 2005 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
HE CHUR..CH AND SOCIALACTlON 
VR..BAN PLUN~E) 
48 hour immersion in the sites and sounds of poverty close to home 
R..~ANIZlN~, POWER.. .A..ND HOPE 
Experience 6 days of the Gospel in action on the streets of Chicago 
0 LY CR..O S S M IS S I0 N I N ED UC.A..T I 0 N 
\X:'ork with the outreach and education efforts of the Congregation of the lloly Cross in Arizona 


Deal with immigration and related issues on the Texas/Mexico border 
For more information or to register online: ttp:/ / socialconcern~.nd.edu 


Recycle the Observer. 
Shutouts 
continued from page 28 

The Irish would score twiee more in the 81 st and 90th minute, on goals from Candace Chapman and Maggie Manning. 
Sunday afternoon was more of the same for the Irish, as they started off slowly missing several key scoring opportuni­ties, but were able to put it away in the seeond half. 
"We had the game under control, and then you miss some ehanees," Waldrum said. "I thought we could have been up at half by three." 
The one goal of the lirst half eame from Hanks, wh!l capi­talized on a free kick. 
Hanks sent the ball past the Georgetown wall to take a 1-0 lead at 27:10. 
After a Cinalli goal at 51:29 made it a two-goal game, Georgetown responded at 
62:03. There was some eonfu­sion in front of the Irish goal, and Alexandra Hardy was able to beat goaltender Lauren 
Karas, who was out of posi­tion. "I think it was a little bit of a wake up," Waldrum said. 
Moments later, Notre Dame responded, taking over the game with their three-goal stn~tch botweon 65:55 and 66:4(>. 
Boek kickod it ofT when she dovo at a eross from Candaeo Chapman and headed it into the net. Thorlakson followed with her 14th goal of' tho soa­son, and Annie Sehefter eappnd it ofT. 
"We hate getting scored on especially in gamos like that when wn shouldn't be gntting seored on," Thorlakson said. "[We just wanted to] take it to them, put it away." 
Notre Dame will now enter postseason play and will take on the winner of Georgetown and Syracuse on Sunday. Oet. 
;{(), 
"We haven't won a Big East sinee I've been here, so we're really focused and want to win this year," Thorlakson said. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 


-
TIM SULLIVAN/The Observer 

Irish midfielder Jen Buczkowski fights off a Connecticut defender Oct. 14. Notre Dame has won 65 straight Big East home games. 
Road Trip 
continued from page 28 
[because of performanee)," Jaekson said. "The guys I sat out happened to be penalty killers. We only praetiee ten guys at penalty kill, and after I sat six of them, that left only four. Then T.J. Jidra, who's one of our top penalty killers. got injured. The players that I had to remove from the lineup for penalty killing hurt us, but we didn't have time to praetiee too many people on penalty kill. 
"Then we changed the lineup around because of those line changes and that disrupted power plays." 
Despite the changes, the Pioneers seored two power play goals and two shorthand­ed goals. 
In order to end up in the win column in the future, Jaekson said his team needs work offensively. 
"I don't see that we have any pure scorers on this team. It's a weakness," he said. "It's something we have to work on developing, and it means we have to lind other ways to be more productive and do some things well in other parts of our game so that we have bet­ter chanees to seore." 
The Irish held Colorado College scoreless in tho first period Friday night, but tho Tigers exploded for two see­and-period goals. Colorado College thoroughly dominatnd the period, out-shooting the Irish 14-1. Thirty-two seconds into the third period, the Tigers seorod again on a power play. Notre Dame got its lone goal of the game on a Victor Oreskovich slap shot at the 13:38 mark of the third period. 
Saturday night, Notre Dame scored three goals but eould not stop the Pioneers. Denvnr All-American Matt Carlo opened the seoring in the first period. Carle would finish the game with one goal and three assists. 
The Pioneers added to their lead nine minutes into the sne­ond pnriod. Notre Dame struck back on a goal by Wes O'Neill. 
Denver seored on a power play to make it 3-1, but the Irish struek baek when Josh Seiba rebounded his own 
missed shot and  found  the  
baek of the net.  
Unfortunately  for  Notre  

Dame, the Pioneers eaught lire in the third period, seoring two goals in thn first twelvn min­utes. 
The Irish would get one more, a power play goal by Noah Babin, but it was too lit­tle too late. 
The Irish added gold helmets to their uniforms for the first time sinee thn 1975-76 season. The helmets, whieh bear no logo, are meant to be similar to thosn worn by the football team. 
The Irish hockey team will be baek in aetion Friday and Saturday at the Joyee Center against Princeton. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, October 25, 2005 
Men 
continued from page 28 
15. Although the fmal score was 1-0 in favor of the Hoyas, Clark felt the Irish were in control of the game. 
"The highlight was that we controlled the Georgetown game start to finish," Clark said. "We played a very, very good game, and we lost a fairly disappointing goal against the run of play." 
It was the second consecutive game where the Irish were shut out. They held Georgetown to only four shots on goal and out­shot the Iloyas 18-14, with six shots on goal. 
"But we kept up discipline. I think that was thing that I was most proud about," Clark said. "We never showed panic, we showed good discipline ... I thought the team played well !despite the loss]. It's hard to say anything otherwise at the end of the game." 
The Irish surged in the second half after giving up the game's only goal in the 33rd minute, notching 14 of their 18 shots, but were unable to find the back of the net. 
Against Providence, however, the Irish were able to leave a close game with a win. Kurt Martin sent one home with three minutes remaining in the second overtime period for his first career goal and a key Irish victo­ry in the conference. 
"We had to keep our heads up 
• and head on to Providence, and
I they did that. It was a much
I. 
I tougher game in many ways," Clark said. "Providence is thei best Providence team I've seen for many years ... they were a tough team, they competed well." After Justin McGeeney scored in the ninth minute, the Irish came out strong against an aggressive Friars team. Goalkeeper Chris Cahill allowed a goal in the 88th minute to force overtime, but Martin saved the game for the Irish. "I was very happy about that goal and that win," Clark said. The Irish carried the winning streak through Pittsburgh in another 2-1 victory, this one in regulation time. Although many of their games feature late surges, the Irish scored both goals against the Panthers in the first seven minutes of play. Alex Yoshinaga and Greg Dalby recorded tallies less than three minutes apart to build a lead that would prove insurmountable to Pittsburgh. "Two excellent goals set us off 

in that game," Clark said. "That was a game that possibly, it was the easiest trip of the fall break because it was a game where we scored early ... and we never really lost control." 
Despite maintaining control, the Irish were unable to score again, and Pittsburgh cut the lead in half in the second period. 

"It was a game we could have blown open I felt. We never got the third goal," Clark said. "[Their goal in the second half], that obviously made it a tighter finish than we would have liked, but I still felt we were in controL" 
After three games, Clark said that all players contributed posi­tive things to the team. 
"There were a lot of good per­formances over the trip I felt. Over three games, everyone played pretty well, contributed, played somfl good moments," he said. 
Although not everyone saw playing time, all the traveling players contributed to support the Irish, Clark said. 
"Even thp, ones who didn't play, they were very supportive. It was good tflam spirit," he said. 
The Irish will facp, in-state rival Indiana on Wednesday at Alumni Field at 6 p.m. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

Bye Week 
continued from page 28 
play again. 

Notre Damp, coach Charlie Weis has no qualms with an extra week to prepare for the Volunteers. 
He and his staff exp.ect to have scouting reports on Tennessee done by Sunday in order to spend all of next week game-planning. They will balance their work on report. I want to be worried about game planning." 
The Irish also had a bye week before almost upsetting USC on Oct. 15, and Weis hopes to use the time to create a successful seheme for Tennessee. But several Irish players have voieed disap­pointment over having to wait two weeks to take the field again. 
"I want to keep playing," Irish strong safety Tom Zbikowski said after a BYU game in which he returned an intercep­tion 83 
the Volunteers "[Tennessee is] extremely yards for a this week with touch­
talented across the board, 
recruiting down. "But
offensively and
duties, as rest up, get seven assis­defensively, [with] an extra tants will leave week of
different athletes and the 
Wednesday game plan­
capabilities they have." 
night for two ning is full days nice." recruiting, Brady Quinn An extra hoping to add week of
Irish quarterback 
to their list of 19 verbal com­mitments. 

"Wednesday night before we hit the road, we'll have the Tennessee scouting report done minus the South Carolina game that they're playing this week," Weis said. "''ll give them off on Saturday so they ean spend some time with their families, but when we come back in on Sunday, I don't want to be spending time working on the seouting 
planning 
couldn't hurt the Irish. Though Tennessee lost 6-3 to unde­feated Alabama Saturday, the Volunteers are only surrender­ing 16 points per game and have given up just one touch­down pass through six games. 
"They are extremely talent­ed all across the board, offen­sively and defensively, !with! different athletes and the capabilities they have," Quinn said. 
But after the offensive dis­play the Irish put on Saturday, it wasn't time yet to foeus on a game two weeks in the future. 
"We're just enjoying this win now," Irish tight end Anthony Fasano said. "We'll look at thnm next week." 
Notes: 

+ Weis will focus on recruit­ing Thursday and Friday of this week and might even hit the road looking at prospects. When asked at his Monday press conference whether he would be going to talk to high school coaches or look at spe­cific recruits, Weis indicated he wasn't traveling for pleas­ure. 
"If I'm going, I'm going for a purpose," he said. ''I'm not going to schmooze." 
+ Irish running back Justin Hoskins did not play against BYU for undisclosed reasons. However, Weis indicated he is close to returning to action. 
"lie's going to come back," he said. "He's been working out with [strength coach] Ruben [Mendoza], and we're going to get back and see where we are right now here today. So we just had this little pow-wow on Friday on this very subject, and I'll lind out the answer to that, whflre we are, after I meet with him today." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 





AUDITIONS 
NOTRE DAME OPERA 
Monday, October 31, 2005 3:30-6:ooPM Washington Hall, East Entry 
Opera performances on Aprilz & 8, 2oo6. ·Please be prepared to sing one selection {ro1n memory. · An accompanist will be provided. 
OPEN TO ALL 
• FREE Chick-fil-A sandwiches, while supplies last~~ 
•Compete in shooting contest with Notre Dame players •Watch os-o6 Walk-On Tryouts 

•Interact wj team & coaches 
•Win prize including ... FREE 2oos-o6 men's basketball 
student booklet, autograph gear, dinner with Coach Brey & more 
At the end receive a voucher to secure your 05-06 men's basketball student season booklets, while vouchers last 
(student season booklets are $6o.oo each) 

Tuesday, October 25, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROSSAINTWORLD 
CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 34 Luau strings 66 Tree with catkins 
1 With the bow, in 35 Run without 67 Heavy reading? music moving 
68 Siouan speaker 5 Dutch pottery 36 Like tumblers 
69 Rebellious city 40 Use an old years, often 1oDisney clownfish phone 10 Snick-or­
43 Ram's ma'am 14 Satirical Mort 

44 Capital at 12,000 feet 

15 Writer Zola DOWN 
16 Plow team 1 Chucklehead 
48 "Monty Python" 

17 Author 2 Cheering 
birds

Silverstein section cheers
52 Gaynor of 

18 Like some 3 Fastest land
"South Pacific" 

panels animal
53 Airline's home 19 Diamond 4 Spicy stew, or
base 

complement its pot
54 Teachers' org. 20 1994 Ethan 5 Hanker for 
55 Some a-mailed 

Hawke movie 
6 Is histrionic 23 D.C. baseballer news reports 
60 Leopold's 7 Pad producer 24 Choler 1920's 
a Spare tire, so to 25 Singers James co-defendant speak and Jones 62 Cook in a wok, 9 Dustin's 
28 Nougat candies perhaps "Tootsie" co-star introduced in 63 Sweep's 10 Hardly1922 schmutz aboveboard Puule by Stella Dally and Bruce Venzke 
33 Milo of 65 Book after 11 Used to be 37 Stephen of "The 47 When doubled, 58 Fellow, "Ulysses" Proverbs: Abbr. Crying Game" sister of Eva slangily
12 Game pieces 38 Have in hand 49 Early second-59 J.F.K. landers,
13 Calorie count of

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE century year 
some diet drinks 39 "Well, _!" once 50 Make less dingy 60 Late July baby 
21 Purplish 40 Hoover, e.g. 51 Boring tools 
-:+.;,+==+::+.::-i 22 Gumshoe 41 "See care!" 61 When the 56 Aspiring J.D.'s Supreme Court 
44:;.+::=+;.;..~ 23 Sgt. or cpl. 
42 Erte forte 

exam reconvenes: 45 Seaplane float Abbr.
-:+-:-+;::..p!IP!I .;,1~~···· 26 Shoemaker's 57 Where the 
too I 46 "Totally cool!" Clintons met 64 Ball raiser 
27 Chicago-to­=~=~~~~ Miami dir. For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
29 Within reach, as 

credit card, 1-800-814-5554.!l!!trn~··· a goal Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday···~~E, 30 Down the crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. -=+~=+::-! 31 River to the Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000Volga past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 32 Tightrope Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young walker's need solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address ________________________~------------­
City ______________ State ____ Zip______ 
.. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

JJ~Wl11E. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. 
one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ACTEX 


I I I t J 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 

f'~~~;-001 rJ 
I EECDAC ± 
WHEN THE BRIDE­

I I r J 
GROOM GOT HIS 
www.jumble.com 
TUXEDO, HE WAS--­

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer. as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: SWOON SLANT BEYOND MAGNUM Answer: What Mom said when the puppy chewed on the table leg-"GNAW" YOU DON'T 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS I>AV: Monica Arnold, 25; Ben Gillies, 26; 
Kevin Kline, 58; F. Murray Ahraham, 66 
Happy Hirthday: Everything is ahout to open up for you, so act fast so you don't miss out. Even though you have some douhts ahout whether or not to proceed, if you don't, you will regret it. Be passionate ahout what you want, and you will reach a point that will he satisfying. Your numhcrs arc I, 12, 14, 22, 35,44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Make the atmosphere and your physical surroundings better. A little added comfort will do a lot I(Jr your attitude. Money matters can be dealt with and gains can he made. The unexpected may surprise you. •• TAURUS (Apri120-Mny 20): Romance may he your prime concern today, hul ­don't forget all the work you have to get done. Take action or you will he som you didn't f(JIIow through. * ••• · GEMINI (May 21-.lunc 20): Get as much done as you can. This is a great day to make a professional change or to ask for a raise. Progress can he made, and the more creative your approach, the further you will get. ••• CANCER (.June 21-.luly 22): Your emotions will prohahly he hard to contain, but if you focus on the people and the things you enjoy doing most, this can he a very productive day. Do something that will enhance your looks or attitude. 
LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): You may he surprised that someone you lhought you could trust is not on your side. Domestic squahhles will develop if you want everything your way. llowever, making up will he worth the aggravation. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): You may not have the hcsl luck when it comes to love and romance today, but you will shine when dealing with colleagues and friends. The more you do for others, the more you will get in return. •••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do something that will make you feel good aboul yourself and the direction you arc heading. You can make a move that will secure your position for the future, hut don't hurn hridges along the way. • • SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): A very important piece of infonnation may not he made availahle to you. Educational pursuits will lead you in an unusual direction. Your beliefs and attitudes may be moving in a more spiritual direction. 
***** 

SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-I>cc. 21): You may have to deal with the property or responsibilities of others. Do so, but don't lose sight of what's going on in your own life. A tinancial deal will enahle you to get out of deht. ••• CAI'RICORN (I>ec. 22-.Jan. 19): Fonn partnerships with people who have something to contrihute to the cause or the project you want to work on. Love interests will develop if you get involved in a group effort. •u AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may have some big ideas, hut you will have ditliculties getting anyone to listen or helicve in what you arc trying to do. Go it alone but take it slow. You arc prohahly a little ahead of your time.••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): No matter what you do or say, people will take notice today and think you arc pretty amazing. You will experience something unique if you get involved with people from different hackgrounds. ••••• 
Birthday Baby: You arc full of hope, goodness and devotion to your hcliefs. 
You are a doer of good and someone who can make things happen. You have a 
strong will and a desire to he someone who makes a difference. 
Eugenia's Web sites: aslroadvice.comfi>r fun. eu}{enialast.comj(,r confidential consultation\ 

THE OBSERVER 







PORTS
Tuesday, October 25, 2005 
page 28 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Beasts of the Big East 
Women earn fifth and sixth straight shutouts in conference wins against Villanova and Georgetown 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
On a Sunday afternoon mix of sun, clouds, wind, rain ­and even hail -the only con­sistency was Notre Dame's ability to score goals. 
Coming off a 4-0 Big East division-elinching win against Villanova on Friday, the Irish dominated Georgetown 5-1 Sunday. 
Notre Dame scored four sec­ond-half goals in each game. 
With the victories. the Irish extended their Big East home winning streak to 65 games. 
The two wins moved the Irish to 16-2 on the season, 10-1 in the Big East. The Irish will be the top seed in this week's conference tourna­ment. 
"That's not the ultimate goal for us, to win the Big East championship," Irish coach Handy Waldrum said. "Ours is to go back and repeat as national champions." 
Within a span of one minute Sunday against Georgetown, the Irish scored three times with goals coming from Brittany Bock, Katie Thorlakson and Amanda Cinalli. 
Kerri Hanks extended her season goal total to 20 after scoring on a free kick Sunday, and added an assist Friday night against the Wildcats. 
On Friday night against Villanova, Notre Dame was held scoreless for the first half. 
The team made up for it by netting four goals in 32 min­utes to hand the Wildcats their fourth loss of the season. The Notre Dame shutout was its sixth consecutive o·ppo­nent. 
"I think the last three week­ends, we really have been playing really well," Waldrum said. "And then to come in today and finish it out, I like where we are right now." 
Notre Dame dominated in shots on goal, out shooting Villanova 37-2. The Irish also had nine corner kicks. 
Jill Krivacek -who had been out with an ankle injury for the last month -scored the first Notre Dame goal at 
57:16 when she took control of a loose ball and beat goal­tender Jillian Loyden for her second goal of the season. 
At 73:46, Brittany Bock scored off a corner kick from Katie Thorlakson when she headed the ball into the net. It was Bock's seventh goal of the season, and first of two during the weekend. 
The Irish would score twice 
see SHUTOUTS/page 25 


MEN's SoccER 

Irish finish 2-1 on fall break trip 
Notre Dame defeats Pitt and Providence, loses to Georgetown 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 

After playing three tough con­ference games on the road dur­ing fall break, the Irish aw glad to return home and bring a 2-1 record on the week with them. 
The Irish lost to Georgetown on Oct. 15, but beat Providence 2-1 on Wednesday and Pittsburgh 2­1 on Saturday to bring a two­game winning streak home to South Bend. 
"It puts us in a good position, provided we can play well in these next two games," Irish coach Bobby Clark said. "It would have been nice if we had won all three games, and I think all three games were certainly winnable." 
The Irish face defending national champions Indiana on Wednesday. 
As most students departed for break, the Irish traveled to the nation's capital to face confer­ence rival Georgetown on Oct. 
see MEN/page 26 
FOOTBALL 

Irish itching for next game 
Notre Dame has a bye week after win over BYU Saturday 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
After record-setting per­formances from Irish quar­terback Brady Quinn and receiver Mauriee Stovall in Saturday's 49-23 win over Brigham Young, the only impediment that could slow such offensive momentum would seem to be an incredible defensive effort. Or just the schedule. 
The Irish enter their sec­ond bye week of the season after the victory over the Cougars and will have to wait until a Nov. 5 home game against Tennessee to 
see BYE WEEK/page 26 


HOCKEY 

Team loses tvvo during Colorado road swing 
ND drops contests with Colorado College, Denver over weekend 
By CHRIS KHOREY SportS Writer 

Two nights. Two top-ten opponents. Two losses. 
The Notre Dame hockey team opened its season Friday and Saturday with games on the road against No. 4 Colorado College and No. 9 Denver. 
The Irish dropped a 3-1 deci­sion to the Tigers and fell 6-3 to the Pioneers. 
"I knew it was going to be difficult," Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. "I wish we could have done better, but on the other hand, from Friday night to Saturday night, we were a much better team." 
After being out-shot 40-13 by Colorado College, the Irish closed to within four shots, 23­19, against Denver. 
"We out-chanced Denver 5 on 5," Jackson said. "That's the result of us doing a much better job playing without the puck and a much better job ot' not turning it over when we have it." 
Poor penalty killing doomed the Irish in both games. Jackson was not satisfied by Notre Dame's special teams play after the Colorado College game and made several changes to the lineup. 
"I sat a few guys out from Friday to Saturday night 
see ROAD TRIP/page 25 

FOOTBAll  NO VOllEYBAll  SMC SOCCER  SMC VOllEYBAll  
usc 34 Notre Dame 31 Trojans win thriller on last second plunge. pages 22-23  Notre Dame sweeps Georgetown 30-12, 30­22, 30-20, to win eleventh consecutive match. page 20  Belles go 1-1-1 in three conference matches dur­ing fall break. page 19  Setter Amanda David is out for the season after breaking her hand Tuesday against Calvin. page 18  


IRISH INSIDER 
Brady Quinn's sehool-record si~ tQlJ.Chdown passes led N~ Dame to:its fiist~,flome
.·'+!victory ..,. 

~.....:::.. . : ::::<··~~· . '.··.. 
·.··. .<· , .• 
.,._,.,..,.. .

49 23 




