

THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
NO student government candidates announced 

Student Senate discusses election 
By AMANDA MICHAELS A."i,f,JIII Nt·ws hliwr 
.Judicial Coun('il l'n•sidPnt Brin And(•rson oflkially annouiH'Pd tlw ticknts approved to run in thn UJH'olning studPnt body prnsidnnt p)p(·tion at WP(l!JPsday's St udPnt SPnatP mnPting. 
Six ti('kPts -up from thn four that ran last yPar -will appnar on tlH' h•h. 7 I >allot, with a wid(~ rangP of agPs and nxpPI'il•ncn. 
ThP pn~sidnntial and vicP prnsi­d(•ntial ('1liHiidalPs indudn junior llaw Ban111 from Morrissny and sophomorP l.izzin ShapJwll from Badin. juniors Craig Bn•dp and Vijay l!amanan. both from Alumni. frPshnu•n l'ntPr llarig and Will Marra. both from Zahm. sopho­morP Mark IIPaly and frnshman Bob Costa. both from Zahrn, jun­iors .lanws I.Pito from Singfril~d and .Jordan Bongiovanni from Cavanaugh and sophomore /\Inc WhitP and junior l·:rik l'owors, hoth from Sorin. 
l'rocndural n~forms rnquirml by tho SnnatP anwndmnnt passod in 
MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic
see SENATE/page 4 

Mitros, Mcllduff win presidential election 
By ANGELA SAOUO 
S.rinr Mary's Editor 
;\ftpr days spPnt canvassing thn dining hall. and nights S[HHIL tr<LVPiing door-to-door, junior 1\:nllyP Mit.ros and soph­omorP Susan Mclldul'f were nallJPd tlw nPxt pn~sidnnt and virn prnsidnnt. of Saint Mary's. llowPvPr, with only :u~ pnn~nnt of thP student body voting, many are wond(~ring wlwthnr 
this roprnstmtation was accu­rate. 
Tho pair won 59.4 poreent of tho voto while juniors Midw lin Fi tzgnrald and Lauren Sit~gel rnceived :B.:~ percent of tho vote. Seven pnrcnnt of those who voted abstainPd from choosing a (~andidat.n. 
Both Mitros and Mclldul'f' arn anxious to takn on their 
see RESULTS/page 6 

Saint Mary's Student Body President ELECTION RESULTS 
*7.3 percent of votes were abstained 

33.3% 
Michelle Fitzgerald 
& 

Lauren Siegel 
MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic 


Increase in tickets reflects collfidence 
By MADDIE HANNA 
News Wrircr 
This ynar's Notrn DamP stu­dPnt body JHnsidnnt.ial Plnrtion fnaturns six tir.kPts -an incrnasn from last y(Htr's four that rel'lnets grnatPr ronfidPIH'P in studPnt govnrnnwnt, a('(~onl­ing to cu1-rnnt mnmlwrs and candidatns." 
"This shows that pnopl(~ haw faith in st.udnnt govnrnnwnt.." studnnt body pn~sidnnt Adam Istvan said. 
lin said thn cu1-rnnt adminis­tration's acr.omplishnwnts, such as ticknt salns. havn inspirPd students and d(•monstratnd t.lw oiTnctivonnss of studnnt govnrn­nwnt. 
"It's not lost on studnnts that wn've ac<~omplished a lot morn this ynar," Istvan said. 
Although Istvan ;u·.knowlPdgPd that he eouldn't speculate as to thn studnnt body's loved of conti­denco in govnrnnwnt bdnro his years at Notre Damn, lw said that the gnneral attitude has 
see TICKETS/page 4 


University pleased w-ith Selllinar 
Professors, students call changes to CORE program successful 
By KATE ANTONACCI Assistant News Editor 
Onn semost(~r after Notre Dame replaced tho Core dass with the new one-semester Colloge Seminar, professors and students are calling the new program a suceoss. 
This past fall, tho College Seminar replaced Corn, a two semester sophomore-level courso in existence for more than 25 years. Both courses have been requirnd li1r Arts and Letters majors. 
The Univorsity docidod to mako the change after com­plaints from professors about tho course's rnading material and student dissatisfitdion. 
Currontly, the College of Arts and I.ettors is evaluating its sue­Cf~ss and comparing it to tho old Corn. 
(~eorge lloward, director of tlw Collego Seminar and of' the former Corn program, said the Ollke of Institutional Hescarch was eomplding a formal ovalua­tion on the now program. 
"Tho evaluation (thoy'rel doing is comparing last year's Corn eourso with this past fall's collngo sominar," lloward said. 
However. Howard said the sueeess of tho Collngn Seminar has alrnady been doar. 
"Core was a eontinual headache of faculty liking some material in the course and not liking others," Howard said. "In College Sominar, the faculty is responsible for picking." 


Howard said students havn also helped to provide opinions about the new sominar. The Core Congrnss, an advisory group composed of students, has boon changed to tho Collngn Seminar Congn\ss. 
"With Corn, the reaction was always mix<~d. That kind of rnae­tion was truo f(Jr thn last soveral years that we had Corn Congrnss," Howard said. "Wn had College Sominar Congross this fall and it was ovorwhnlm­ingly positive." 
Studnnts have responded posi­tively inside the classroom as well. 
"The studnnLo.; responded in an extraordinary way. I fp)t tlw i:m1rso was the most surcnssful o1w I havn ewr taught. for tlw quality of thn studnnLo.;' work and rnsnar('.h, tlwir nngagnnwnt with tlw subject. tlw liveliness and intensity of e.lass discussions. and the atmosplwrn wn g(•nnrat­nd in the classroom," said Christian Moevs. who taught a "Dante: Poetry, Arts, l'oliti(~s" smninar. 
Howard nxpects Collegn 
see SEMINAR/page 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, January 27, 2005 

INSIDE COLUMN 
Just don't 


say ... 
Students in South Bend often com­plain about the virtually nonexistent dating scene. As a long-time people­watcher who has seen it all, I feel I might be able to shed some light on the situation and offer up some 
Nicole Zook 
advice to those of you who just can't seem to meet new Assistant people. There is News Editor an old universal standby that just does not seem to work in this little corner of the world, and avoiding it might just save your social life. 
The pick-up line. Often used, often laughed at, it seems to be a staple of today's social scene. Personally, I think they're hilarious -ladies and gentlemen, do you seriously think a line like ''I'm writing a telephone book; can I have your number?" will work on that gorgeous member of the opposite sex you noticed at the bar? 
Let me tell you now, if you don't already know. 
It won't. 
Sure, they're fun, they're cheesy, but pick-up lines are very rarely use­ful in reality. In a real-life situation, this.is how the pick-up line is received: 
Guy: I couldn't help but notice I was staring at you. 
Girl: Get away from me, freak. 
Well, to be fair, a polite girl might just give a dirty look and walk away. But that's what she is thinking. Trust me. That girl will go home with her friends and laugh at you for using such a stupid line. Save yourself the trouble, and don't do it. 
I think the problem is people see a pick-up line as an entity all its own. Too much certainty and nervous ener­gy is placed in that one line -people think if the first line bombs, you are a failure, and if it is great you have it made. This is simply bad logic. 
The initial introduction between two people should be nothing more than a good start to an interesting conversa­tion. The pick-up line should not stand alone. If you bank all your hopes on one line and do not have anything to follow it up with, you may as well not have even attempted the approach. The initial line is the means to an end, and the desired end should be a good conversation both of you will remember the next day. 
Keeping this purpose in mind, when you first walk up to that hottie this weekend, try injecting your introduc­tion with some of your stunning per­sonality instead of a force-fed line that he or she has already heard from ten other people. You have at least one great quality you can use to your advantage -be it your intelligence, sense of comic timing -or simply the fact that you are really ridiculously good looking. Remember that about yourself and approach your object of desire with confidence in yourself. 
Just don't start with ''I'm not drunk, I'm just intoxicated by you." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook892 8@saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
An anicle in the Jan. 26 edition ofThe Observer incorrectly stared that University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh stepped down from the Notre Dame presidency in 1989 and rhar Peter Ueberrmh delivered the principal address ar rhar year's commencement ceremony. Hesburgh stepped down in 1987. Derek Bok, the president of Harvard University at the time, delivered the commencement address that year. The Observer regrets these errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR DREAM JOB? 
''A trophy wife. , ''A pediatrician ''A fisherman. " ''I've wanted to "Co-emperor of ''Anyjob­by day." be a North America." please someone 








pediatrician since age 8, and I want to make babies too, lots ofthem." 

-~~0::.. -t. 
~..:·.·-<""*' 
·-:-:·:·.:,..,, ..,.,;,;.;.,. 
TIM SULLIVANfThe Observer A snowman cheerfully greets students, faculty and staff passing by Haggar Hall on North Quad Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT 

Man appeals to estranged wife with full page ad 
A Florida man has tried to win back his estranged wife with a full-page, $17,000 newspaper ad begging her to give him another chance. 
Dubbed 'Lonesome Larry' by the Florida Times-Union, the man told the newspaper that his wife of 17 years had moved out, changed her mobile phone number, refused to return his calls, barred him from entering her parents's house and ignored the five dozen roses he sent. 
Larry took out an ad addressed to Marianne on Tuesday. 
TODAY 
a:: 

"Please believe the words in my letter, they are true and from my heart. I can only hope you will give me the chance to prove my unending love for you. Life without you is empty and meaningless," the ad reads. 
"Please, please, please call me. I love you with all my heart." 
The ad has prompted calls from readers, curious to know how things turned out. 
Thirsty for beer, man locks himself in with kegs 
A Czech man is being taken to court after he hid in a restaurant washroom until the employees had left and then hooked up beer kegs directly to his mouth. 
Cleaning staff found him drunk and lying on the floor of the bar at the restaurant in the city of Brno, about 200 kilometres east of the capital Prague, the CTK news agency reported. 
"He had broken the door of the cooling mechanism ... and detached the hoses leading from the keg, squashed them in his mouth and literally filled himself up with beer," CTK quoted a police official as saying. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
LLI 
::1: 
!;;: 
LLI 





i):3: 
i):
...1 
c:c 
(,) 


..... 0 HIGH 32 HIGH 32 HIGH 24 HIGH 34 LOW 3 LOW 3 LOW 13 LOW 22 
hire me." 
IN BRIEF 
The Offiee of Human Resources is hosing cholesterol screenings today as part of its WorkLife Program. The screen­ings are available to NO faculty and staff from 7:30 a.m. to 10 in 234 Grace Hall. A 12-hour fast is required. 
The Marian Anderson String Quartet will perform today at 
7:30 p.m. at the Decio Mainstage Theatre. The con­cert is free but tickets are required. Call the Debartolo box office for information. A "meet the artists" reception will follow. 
The film "I (Heart) Iluckabees" will be shown Friday at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. in the Browning Family Cinema. The event is sponsored by the department of film, television and theatre. 
The department of romance languages and literatures is sponsoring a showing of "Les Fouberires de Capin" tonight at 7:30 in the Philbin Studio Theatre. For tickets call the Debartolo box office. 
The Bridal Expo comes to the Joyce Center Saturday from 9 
a.m. to 5 p.m. There will be fashion shows at 10 a.m., noon and 3 p.m. Tickets are $3 at the door and free from many local retailers. 
The men's tennis team will face off against North Carolina Saturday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Matches begin at 2:00 p.m. 
To s_ubmit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 37 HIGH 38 LOW 25 LOW 23 
Atlanta 52 I 27 Boston 16 I 7 Chicago 24 I 9 Denver 48 I 23 Houston 60 I 49 Los Angeles 62 150 Minneapolis 22 113 New York 18 I 10 Philadelphia 21 I 7 Phoenix 64/ 48 Seattle 50 I 42 St. Louis 38 I 18 Tampa 74 157 Washington 25 1 13 


Thur~day, January 27, 2005 The Observer+ NEWS page 3 
Late Night Olympics raises $8,659 
Funds collected at event exceed last year's total by more than $500 
============================================================================~ 

Students flock to Winter Career Fair 
By KATIE PERRY 
Nt·ws Writer 
AftPr tallying scorPs and tabu­lating donations, organizors for this past WIH~knnd's Lat11 Night Olympics said the HncSports­sponsored PVPnt raisnd $R,659 for the St. .Joseph County Spodal Olympi1~s. 
Funds raisNI nxcended last ynar's total by morn than $500, said Bill Hnagan, assistant dirnctor of' instruction, spedal !Wnnts and family programs for lltwSports. Tlw Wnlsh Family­Koough tPam was thn overall winnnr. 
Hnvnntw for thn event was produced through a variety of moans, induding a Pnnny War, ral'fln. front door donation and OJWil skate at tlw Joyce Center ico rink. Most procends, how­over, canw from the required cost l'or nach participating tnam, and entry fnns alone totalod more than $2,700. 
l•:ach toam competes in all nvnnts and points for each activity arn totaled to produco an overall winrwr. 
No singlo f'undraising catego­ry saw an irnmensn increase, howevnr nwnmw was increased "across tlll1 board," said llnagan. Fivn of thn six cate­gorins saw significant jumps in donations. 
l!oagan attributes the rnlative f'undraising increases to the addition of' thn MBA team. Last year was the rirst year Notre Dame graduate students were allowed to participate and since then competition has improved, said Heagan. 
"I think the MBA group has set an example for dorm stu­dents as far as overall team organization," Heagan said. 
One dorm student team with comparable unity and organiza­tion is Keough and Welsh Family. The West Quad halls proved their dynasty status by claiming the overall 'Late Night body from the top down." 
However, large-seale partici­pation was not a success enjoyed only by the event's vie­tors. Arter dropping in 2004, overall LNO participation saw an inerease as this year more than l,:mo students participat­ed. 
Sehaefer attributes the large number of participants to their genuine desire to partake in the event. 
"I think that a lot of our sue­cess comes from the people in 
Olympics champi­onship for the 4th straight year. 
"/ think the MBA
With a total 

group has set an
points score. of 2,514 the Keough­example for dorm Welsh Family team 
students as Jar as
edged the MBA 
overal team 
team by less than 100 points. organization. " Keough-Welsh Family won more 
Bill Reagan
than a third of the 
Assistant Director
17 events. 
Keough Hall ath­RecSports letie commissioner Pat Schaefer said that the team's past successes Reagan. 
the dorm who participate and really want to be there," Schaefer said. "This great attitude toward LNO helps us get a lot of good teams together." 
Aside from a l'ew minor injuries and seheduling mishaps, the event ran well and diseiplinary measures were unnecessary, said 
H~ 
HUMOR ARTISTS OF NO 10 PM. 
OCEAN'S ELEVEN MIDNIGHT. 
By JOHN EVERETT 
News Writer 
Students floeked to the Joyce Center Wednesday afternoon to talk with recruiters from about 150 businesses and organiza­tions at the annual Winter Career and Internship Fair. 
Sophomore Jim Theiss said he was especially impressed with the selection. 
"To have a government agency like the CIA here is great, and ESPN, with the way they've expanded into a global eompany, that they'd recruit undergrads here is imprnssive," Theiss said. 
Sophomore finance major Justen Cheers wa<; also plea<;ed with the presenters. lie cited General Electric and Proctor and Gamble as companies he was interested in. 
"It's very a good fair -loL<; of great eompanics here and it's a great chance to network," he said. 
Chris Lesley, present at the fair as a representative of' the State Farm Jnsuranee Company, a company that has often recruited at Notre Dame, listed several noteworthy qualities. 
"I think the caliber of studenl'> here fits well with the skill set we're looking for ... We'rn also not very degree-specific, so we can hit a broad group by coming to Notre Dame," he said. 


TIM SULLIVANffhe Observer 

Jorge VIllarreal speaks with a Price Waterhouse Cooper representative. 
She also added that the corn­pntition lilr internships would be very high, stating that her eom­pany had seven opnnings fiw tim entirn state of' Indiana. 
Anita Hens, eoordinator lilr the event, said she W<L'> plmL<;nd with the turnout. 
"The flow of students hasn't stopped since we opnned the doors. The students are all dressed professionally and Limy look great," Hoes said. 
Big-name eompanies attmdnd the largest erowds, a<; crowds of eager students awaited the chance to talk to a rnpresnnta­tivn from ESPN, Time, lne., thn CIA and Merrill-Lynch. 
Contact Writer at jeverett@nd.edu 
have spurred a widespread desire to perform well at the event. 
"Both hall eouncils !Keough and Welsh Family] emphasize that we are somewhat of a dynasty now and we want to continue that tradition," Schaefer said. "The dorms are committed to LNO from every­
"The thing I noticed is that kids were having a great time," he said. "The students were remarkably well-behaved for a Saturday night aetivity that last­ed through the wee hours of the morning." 
Contact Writer at kperry5@nd.edu 
Howie Day? John Mayer? No, Matt Wertz. 
10PM. 
opener
Kevin Leicht



NIGHTCLUB 
campus favorite 

AFTER THE CONCERT. 
·ALL SHOWS FRE

SALSA NIGHTCLUB. 
.ND,SMC,HCCID 

MIDNIGHT. 

The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 27, 2005 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
December take effect for this election. These include the increase in signatures required for late-entry candidates, bumped from 100 to 350, and the requirement that votes cast in favor of abstention in the run-off election not be calculat­ed in total vote percentages, so as to ensure a majority for an actual ticket. 
Anderson said the Judicial Council, which oversees the election, will try to increase student participation and excitement about these elec­tions, after less than half of the undergraduate population turned out to vote in last year's primary. 
"We're working on a cam­paign similar to Rock the Vote for November~s national presi­dential elections," she said. "We're really looking to boost participation and get students interested this year." 
In order to accommodate the Super Bowl, the first debate will be held Feb. 3 in an as-yet unannounced location in LaFortune, tentatively at 7:30 
p.m. The primary election will occur Feb. 7 with the run-off debate between the final two tickets on Feb. 8 and the run­off election on Feb. 9. 
In other Senate news: 
+ Chief Executive Assistant Dave Baron told Senate that the report for the Feb. 3 Board of Trustees report would be finalized and sent to the trustees by today. The report will focus on the general issue of diversity at Notre Dame, with sections specifically addressing racism, heterosexu­ality and sexism. 
Baron asked that the student body wear The Shirt, or any green shirt, on Feb. 3 to show support for diversity. The date coincides with Diversity Awareness Week. 
+ Academic Affairs Committee chair Vijay Ramanan announced that the college newspaper readership pilot program will start Feb. 7 and go for four weeks while student demand is evaluated. Fourteen different locations around cam­pus, including some dorms and classroom buildin.gs, will receive free copies of the New York Times, Chicago Tribune and USA Today daily. 
Discussions about instituting the full program will begin after results from the trial are analyzed. 
+ 
The Senate approved an endorsed letter to send to Bono as part of the campaign to con­vince U2 to come play a benefit concert during the spring semester's Africa Week. 

+ 
Members discussed the Committee on Oversight's exploration of changing stu­dent government's transition date from April 1 to either the end of spring semester or the end of fall semester. Most spoke in favor of making the term last into May, including student body president Adam Istvan, who said that the extra transition time would help eliminate wasted weeks. 


Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


Tickets 
continued from page 1 
become much more positive. 
"That [level of confidence] hasn't appeared to have hap­pened in the past," Istvan said. 
As for the large number of tickets running, Istvan said, "It's democracy." 
Karla Bell, student body vice president, noted that many of this year's candidates have extensive student government experience. 
"This shows that people want to stay involved," she said. 
Bell, who is "enthusiastic" about the election, said while many of the candidates have served on the same bodies of student government, the com­petition between them is good­natured. 
According to Student Judicial Council chair Brin Anderson, a candidate must be in good aca­demic standing and have eligi-· bility based on their discipline record through the Office of Student Affairs and Residence Life and Housing. 
Additionally, candidates must collect 700 signatures for a petition, an increase that was implemented in 2004 to pre­vent "joke tickets" from run­ning. Once the signatures are in and approved by Judicial Council, the Registrar and the Office of Student Affairs, the tickets may begin campaign­ing, Anderson said. 
"I am very happy that there are so many tickets running this year," said Anderson. "I believe that a higher number of tickets involved in the elec­tion provides the student body with more choices and options for candidates based on their individual platforms." 
Presidential candidate Jordan Bongiovanni, Cavanaugh senator, and vice presidential James Leito, Siegfried senator, said they felt encouraged by the number of candidates but admitted past disillusionment with student government. 
''I'm really excited that there are a lot of people taking this seriously this y e a r , 

Vijay Ramanan, Senate Academic Affairs chair, said the variety of candidates con­tributed individual strengths to the competition and platforms. 
"There's a lot of people run­ning because there are changes to be made in student government," Brede said. 
Like Brede, presidential can­didate Alec White said he was "in no way intimidated" by the number of tickets. 
"A little healthy competition never killed anyone -except 
the gladiators in 
Rome," White 

Bongiovanni said. 'This shows that said. Leito empha­In addition to
people want to
sized the pair's Healy-Costa, sev­
stay involved. '' 
Ion g-r u·n n in g eral tickets bring involvement in experience in a student govern­Karla Bell range of student ment and ability government
student body vice 
to enact change. organizations and
president
"We're trying to their platforms 
reach out to stu­dents," he said. "We want to show them that [student government] does do something." 
Sophomore presidential can­didate Mark Healy, who also ran his freshman year, stressed his involvement as a programmer on the Student Union Board. Healy's running mate is freshman Bob Costa, who helped bring John Mayer and Eve 6 to his high school. 
"Our age is one thing, but it doesn't really reflect our resumes," Healy said. 
Several candidates said they viewed the high number of tickets as healthy for the cam­paign process. 
Alumni Hall president and presidential candidate Craig Brede and his running mate 
reflect their expe­

rience. For exam­ple, the Bongiovanni-Leito ticket and White-Powers ticket both include current senators. 
Erik Powers, Sorin senator and White's running mate, said the large number of candidates would help bring fresh ideas to student government. 
"Sometimes having more tickets is good, like if you're at a carnival and want to get on more rides. This is better for the merry-go-round of student government at Notre Dame," he said. "We're just asking Adam and Karla to pass the peas, and maybe the-salt too," Powers said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 




Join us for 
THE EIGHTH ANNUAL GLB RETREAT FEBRUARY 4-5 
A 24-hour retreat for questioning, bisexual, lesbian and gay students and their friends. 
Sign up in 114 Co-Mo or online at campusministry.nd.edu by Jan. 31 


EVERYONE Is WELCOME! 
QUESTIONS? EMAIL AMAGEE@ND.EDU OR DZIMLICH@ND.EDU 
SPONSORED BY: CAMPUS MINISTRY 


-~-------~ 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, January 27, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERViCES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Secrecy will hinder Iraq elections 
BAC;JJJ)f\f), Iraq-Four days before his­toric eiPrtions in Iraq. many candidatns' names ar!' still secrPl. Almost no onn is out prPssing tlw l"lnsh. And l"linrs thrna.tnn dPath to anyonn who dares vote. 
Thn vioiPnrn in Iraq and the sncurit.y prncautions it has promptnd havn put an unusual -and somntinws troubling ­twist on llw naturn of' thn i~arnpaign load­ing up to Sunday's PIPrtions. 
"flow ran you rhoosP sonwbody to rnp­rnsnnt you without knowing nvnn who lw is'?" orw Iraqi woman. lbtisam Sal'wan, who is living in Jordan, asknd this wnnk. 
In a lwauty rontnst, shn quippnd. "you know about nvnry inrh in t.lw rontnstants' hodi!'s." l!ul on tiH• lists of Iraqi candi­d alPs, many blanks rnmainnd as of' WPd nPsday. 
Sudan bombs Darfur villagers 
CAIHO. Hgypt -Tlw Sudarwse air !'oren homht•d villagl'rs in South Darfur on WPdnnsday, ohsnrvnrs !'rom the Al'riean Union rnporlP<I. and an intnrnational aid organization said casualtins were inllietnd. 
"It is a major cnasn-l'irn violation," said llll' SPnior AU political ol'l'icnr !'or Sudan, .!nan Bapristn Natama. 
l>arl'ur rnlwls havn ol'tnn aeeusnd the govPrnmPnt of' using its air !'oren against rivilians, and Khartoum has usually dl'nind surh rhargns. Anrial bomhard­nwnts arn rarely confirmed by thn AU, whirh has about 1,400 rnasn-l'irn monitors and prolPrtion troops in tho wnstPrn Sudan n•gion. 
SudanPSP govPrnmnnt ol'l'icials could not Ill' rt>aclwd l'or rommnnt latn Wndnnsday. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Man's attempted suicide kills ten 
c;J.HNI>t\1.1·:. Cali!'. -A suicidal man parknd his SUV on tlw railroad tracks and snt otT a rrash or two COIIIIIIUtnr trains Wednesday that. hurlt>d passnngnrs down tlw aisles and turrwd rail rars into smoking, twist.nd heaps or stnnl. authorities said. At lt•ast 10 pnopln worn killnd and nwrc-than IXO injun~d. 
Thn SUV drivnr got. out at the last momnnl and survivnd. 
Tlw collision took place-just bnforn daybr'IHtk on t.hl' out.skirL'i of l.os t\ngnlns. l•:mploynns at a Costro storn rushe-d to t.lw scmw and pullnd rid­l'rs from lht> tippl'd-ovnr doub1<~-dnck cars hnl'orP tim llanws rnarhNI thnm. Dazed passnn­gnrs st.agg~~rnd !'rom t.lw wn~ckagn, some limp­ing. llrw nldPrly man on thn train was cover1•d in blood and sool. his lngs and arms apparnntly broknn. 

Oil spill threatens drinkig water 
CAll HOI.I JON. Ky. -A pipnlin1~ brokn and spii!Pcl an nstimatnd (13,000 gallons of crudo oil into llw Kl'nt.ucky Bivnr narly Wndrwsday, cn~­aling a I 0-miln slick that 1:rnws were racing to rontain to kc-Pp it l'rom contaminating drinking walPr. 
By aft1•rnoon tlw oil spill had crnpt within five miles of tlw Ohio Hivnr. which snvnral commu­nit.ins in northnrn KPntucky rnly on l'or thnir watnr supplins, said l~nvironrnPntal Protection Agnnry onsitn coordinator Art Smith. Tho Knntucky Hivnr is not usnd for drinking watnr in tlw ama. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Gay marriage ban to go to assembly 
INDIANAPOLIS -Lngislation that could load to a state constitutional ban on gay marriagP will got a chance to advance in the General Assnmhly. 
Hepublican state Sen. David Long of Fort Wayne, chairman of tho Senate Corrnetions, Criminal and Civil Matters Committee, said Wodrwsday his panel would consider the proposal in about two wneks. lie said he expected it to pass the eommittee, and given its 42-7 passage in the chamber last year, win approval in the Senate this session. 
IRAQ 


37 troops die on deadliest day in Iraq 
Hellicopter crash and insurgent ambushes result in heavy casualties, injuries 
Associated Press 
BA<;IIDAD, Iraq -A 
U.S. lwlicopter craslwd in a desert sandstorm in tho narly morning darknPss Wndnesday. killing tho 30 Marinos and one Navy sailor aboard. Six othnr troops dind in insurgnnt ambushes in the deadlinst day for Americans since tho Iraq war began nearly two ynars ago. 
Only days bofore Iraq's c.rueial eleetions Sunday, militants set ofT at least night car bombings that killed 13 pnople and injurnd 40 othnrs, includ­ing 11 Americans. Thn guerrillas also carried out a string of attacks nation­wide against schools that will snrvn as polling ron­tors. 
In Washington, Presidont Bush callod on Iraqis to defy terrorism and go to the polls despite relentlnss insurgent attacks. lie said it was a "vnry diseouraging" day whnn tho U.S. dnath toll !'or thn war rose above 1.400. 
Thn CJI-531~ Supnr Stallion was carrying per­sonrwl !'rom the 1st Marine Division on a sncurity mission in sup­port of' the elnetion wlwn it wnnl down about I :20 
a.m. near the town of' Hutbah, about 220 milos wnst of' Baghdad, thn mili­tary said. 
Tlw crash occurred dur­ing severn weathor, but its cause was still under investigation. said Army Gnn . .John Abizaid, ~~hid of U.S. Cnnl.ral Command. An Accuweathnr map shownd sandstorms Wednnsday in tho wnstnrn rogion ol' Iraq noar tho .Jordanian border whnrn tho erash took place. 
A search and rescue loam was at the site. The victims wnre 30 Marines and one sailor, said Lt. Gen. .John Sattlnr, the top Marine commandnr in Iraq the most Arnnrican servieo mnm­bnrs l.o die in a single 


Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld leaves a press conference regarding the military helicopter that crashed in Iraq Wednesday killing 31 soldiers. 
incident sinen the March 2003 invasion of Iraq. 
Thn dnadlinst previous ineidnnt for U.S. troops was also a helicopter crash: a Novombcr 2004 collis-ion ol' two Black Hawk hnlicoptcrs that killed 17. Bnl'or·n Wednnsday's bloodshed, the most Anwl'icans killed in one day canH~ on tho invasion's third day_ Mareh 23. 2003 -whon 28 troops were killed dur­ing thn U.S. military's drivn to take Baghdad and topple Saddam llussein. 
The u,s. military has not snen such a high loss or life in one day in 15 years -sincn an nxplo­sion ripped through a gun 
turrnt on the USS Iowa during a training nxerrisn in thn Caribbnan in April 1989, killing 47 sailors. 
Iraqi security l'orees and civilians havo bornn t.lw brunt ol' violnncn in Iraq. with bombings ol'tl'n killing scorns or pcHlpln at a time. Morn than I RO pnopln wer·n killed on Marrh 2. 2004. during a string of suicide attaeks at. Shiiln shrines in Karbala and Baghdad. 
Violnncn has only inereasnd ahead of' Sunday's election, which will crnato a 275-nmmlwr National Assembly and regional legislatures. Sunni Muslim extremists have threatnned to sabo­tage tho nloet.ion, and 
many Sunni ('.lerirs havn rallnd !'or a boyrott lwrausn of t.lw prPsnnrP of U.S. and ot.lwr l'on~ign troops. 
The group calling itsPif al-()aida in Iraq warnPd peopln to stay away from tlw po II s . l h r n a t P 11 i ng all.acks. "Oh peop!P, I)(' carnl'ul. BP earnful not to lw nnar thn (',PillPrS 01' infidnlil.y and virn, tho polling cPntnrs ... Don't blame us hul hlanw your­snlvl~s" il' harnwd," a WPh 
statnnwnt isstwd in  thP  
group's rmnw said.  
In  addition  to  

Wndnnsday's erash deaths, !'our Marini'S wnrP killed in lighting in Iraq's Anbar province, tlw mili­tary said. 



Rice confirmed as Secretary of State 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Condolcezza Riee won confirmation as secretary of state Wednesday despite blistering criticism from Senatn Dernoerats who aceused her of misleading statements and said she must share the blame for mistakes and war deaths in Iraq. 
The tally, though one-sided at 85­13, was still the largest "no" vote against any secretary of state nomi­nee sinee 1825. 
Separately, a Senate eommittee narrowly voted to send Alberto 
Gonzales' attorney general nomina­tion to the full Senate. And Jim Nicholson and Michael Leavitt won confirmation as the new secretaries of veterans affairs and health and human services respectively as President Bush's second-term Cabinet began to (ill out. 
Rice, Bush's national seeurity advis­er for four years and perhaps his dosest adviser on the war and terror­ism issues that dominated his first term, becomes the first black woman to be America's top diplomat. She succeeds Colin Powell, a former Army general who clashed privately with 
some of the strongnst hawks in Bush's inner drde. 
Although Hice's nomination was never in doubt, Democrats mountnd a lengthy and biting protest that showed she will not immediately match Powell's eollogial mlationship with Capitolllill. 
Demoeratie senators denouneed Hiee's job performance and truthful­ness. Most criticism foeusnd on Hicn's role planning for war and explaining the threat posnd by Saddam llussnin. Some accused her of avoiding aeeountability for the absence of' weapons of mass destrw~tion in Iraq. 


I . 
t 
I 
page 6 

Se01inar 
continued from page 1 
Seminar the structure of the new program to add to its suc­cess. 
"With Core, we [the Core Department] determined 80 per­cent of the content of Core course," lloward said. "In Ithe College Seminar], faculty mem­bers can determine 100 percent ol' the content." 
Many professors agreed that College Seminar ran similarly to Core, but was structured differ­ently and gave them more free­dom to design their own class. 
Otper professors viewed College Seminar as a greater challenge, particularly because of the oral intensive nature of the course. 
"College Seminar was an experiment for me -it made me consider designing a course based on oral performance," said Moevs. "I decided to take the challenge, and made my seminar 100 percent based on oral work." 
There are, however, certain requirements that each College Seminar professor must meet. 
"It has to represent the three main domains of Arl<> and Letters -humanities, social sciences, fine and performing arts," said lloward. 
Though these three areas rieed to be intertwined into the class by each professor, the College Seminar focuses more on answering the bigger questions. 
"!The College Seminar] reflects the continual drift toward spe­cialization and away from a gen­eral education and skills for citi­zenship and global identity in an increasingly shrinking world," said Andy Weigert, who teaches a Society and Environment semi­nar. 
There arc currently 23 College Seminar courses offered and there were 31 full sections in the fall. College Seminar focuses on answering big questions, with topics including folk tales, the point of Arts and Letters, spiritu­al education and blacks in Hussia. 
The variety of topics and the elimination of the yearlong pro­btram has sparked further inter­est in the program. 
College Seminars are capped at 17 students, with a fflw excep­tions, and focus on oral participa­tion. 
Because of the oral-intensive nature of the dass, many profes­sors graded students based on dass participation, oral presenta­t.ions and oral flxams. 
"We did oral exams, which I felt worked better and were fair­er and morn accurate, than writ­ten exams," said Moevs. "One aim was to help students become more articulate and polished in speaking and thinking on their feet -ND students don't get much training in this in their nor­mal academic work." 
lloward added that professors have been eager to teach College Seminar. 
"We've had no problem what­soever getting people to teach them and this is in stark contrast to Core where we would beg and plead to get people to teach them," Howard said. 
Though the full-year course did have advantages, the College Seminar Department is confident that shift from Core will have a positivfl effect. 
"One key pedagogical gain in Core was that second semester is when major student empower­ment occurs," said Weigert. "Thus, the [College Seminar] is not a replacement for a yearlong 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

The Observer + NEWS Thursday, January 27, 2005 

Results 
continued from page 1 
new roles in student gov­ernment. 
"Susan and I feel extremely proud and honored to be chosen as the next student body president and vice pres­ident of Saint Mary's College," Mitros said. "We are humbled that our peers have entrusted us with these roles and look forward with great anticipation to serving the amazing women of the College." 
Mcllduff said while many students are already applying 
MEXICO 

An1bassador concerned over drug violence 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY -U.S. Ambassador to Mexico Tony Garza told Mexican leaders Wednesday he is concerned that growing drug-related violence and kidnappings on the border between the two countries will have a "chill­ing" effect on trade and tourism. 
Garza's comments in a let­ter directed to Mexican Foreign Relations Secretary Luis Ernesto Derbez and fed­eral Attorney Hafael Macedo de Ia Concha explained the motives behind a public announcement from the U.S. State Department to citizens thinking of traveling to the region. 
The department on Wednesday alerted Americans visiting Mexico that violent crime, including murder and kidnaping, has increased in its northern bor­der region. 
The alert attributed the increased crime to a war between criminal organiza­tions struggling for control of the lucrative narcotics trade. It said the leaders of several major criminal organizations have been arrested, creating a power vacuum. 
"U.S. citizens should be 
Saturday, Men's Hockey vs. Bowling Green 7:05p.m. Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
•First 500 fans receive Trading Cards of the 
Irish Juniors sponsored by Chevy! 
Chevrolet 

~~j 
•Stick around after the 
game to get autographs from the Irish Juniors! 
for the health and wellness commissioner spot her administration plans to cre­ate, they intend to begin planning slowly. 
"I would like to thank all the students who kindly wel­comed us into their residence rooms, smiled at us when we were exhausted and opened their hearts to tell us why they love our College," Mcllduff said. "Talking to my colleagues about their vision for the school was an experi­ence like none other." 
Fitzgerald and Siegel said they are upset with the loss, but believe the College will prevail. 
Fitzgerald said she and 
Siegel are ready to move on to bigger and better things, but was disappointed with poor student turn out. 
"With only 38 percent of the student body voting, we don't really know if the whole student body was rep­resented," Fitzgerald said. "However, we ran a good race, and wish Kellye and Susan the best." 
The buzz on campus is one of anticipation for what is to come at thl\ College. 
Senior Meredith Gramann said she feels the futurfl of Saint Mary's is in good hands. 
"I think these women will be a breath of fres_h," she 
said. "They seem interested in the student body and I think she'll do a great job as president and vice -fJresi­dent." 
For now, Mitros and Mcllduff are focusing on the future and preparing to take office. 
"I hope we are able to con­tinue in the spirit of open dialogue throughout the com­ing years," Mitros said. "We look forward to assuming our new roles and we want to thank the women of Saint Mary's for giving us this tremendous opportunity." 
Contact Angela Saoud at saou0303@saintmarys.edu 

aware of the risk posed by the deteriorating security sit­uation," the department warned. It added that the great majority of victims are Mexican citizens. 
The U.S. Embassy in Mexico distributed Garza's letter to news agencies after issuing the alert. 
A Mexican Foreign 
federal prisons housing reputed drug traffickers who allegedly have continued to operate their businesses from behind bars with the help of corrupt prison employees. 
In the latest move against prisons, federal agents and soldiers seized the top-secu­rity Matamoros prison, in the 
Helations Department spokesman, Allan Nahum, said officials "have received the notification and we are going to pass it along to the appropriate authorities so that they may respond" as they see fit. 
The advisory came just days after the 
"US. citizens should be aware of the risk posed by the deteriorating security situation." 
Tony Garza 
U.S. ambassador to Mexico 
border city of the same name across from Brownsville, Texas, after six prison employees were slain and their bodies dumped outside the prison gates last Thursday. 
In the latest move against prisons, federal agents and sol­diers seized the top-security Wednesday in the 

Mexican government sent federal police officers to patrol the streets of the bor­der city of Nuevo Laredo, across from Laredo, Texas, at the request of local authori­ties who said the crime and violence had become too great for them to handle. 
It also comes as officials crack down on top-security 
Carolina 2p.m. Eck Tennis Pavilion 

border city of Matamoros, across from Brownsville, Texas, after six prison employees were slain and their bodies dumped outside the prison gates last Thursday. 
Investigators say the Matamoros prison employees were apparently killed by drug traffickers settling turf 
disputes and prison vendet­tas. 
Garza noted that while the great majority of border vio­lence victims are Mexican citizens, "tlw elevated level of violence generally has resulted in greater risks to the thousands of American citizens visiting and passing through the border region every day. Increased num­bers of murdered and kid­napped Americans in recent months bear this out." 
Garza went on to say that he worried "the inability of local law enforcement to come to grips with rising drug warfare, kidnappings and random street violence will have a chilling effect on the cross-border exchange, tourism and commerce so vital to the region's prosperi­ty ... We certainly do not want at this time to advise Americans to refrain from traveling to Mexico by land or to avoid the border areas, but it is our responsibility to alert them to the enhanced risks," Garza said. 
lie added that he applaud­ed President Vicente Fox's efforts to combat crime and drug trafficking and said he hoped "that commitment will make a difference at the state and local levels." 
January 29th #10 Track and Field Notre Dame Invitational 

Men's Basketball vs. #13UCONN 3:45p.m. Joyce Center 
•This game sponsored by 
Papa John's and one lucky fan will win pizza for: a year! 
~~·H:;::r ht~.f.;. ·..~:~o, D.ES. &-~~('f f~t'-'.: 
•One lucky fan will win a free 
phone and a year of service from Centennial Wireless! 
All three of these events are •Project Playground 
Gold Games! performing at halftime! 
The first 1 00 fans to each event will 
receive a Gold Games t-shirt ~ sponsored by 4JJ South Bend Orthopaedics! 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Thursday, January 27, 2005 
page 7 

MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,498.59 +37.03
}ones A, 

up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,359 159 ""' 1,681,464,576 
AMEX I .407.96 -8.22 NASDAQ 2,046.09 +26.14 NYSE 7,046.40 +47.76 S&PSOO I, 174.07 +5.66 NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11.376.57 0.00 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,847.10 +3.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) -0.96 -0.06 6.18 NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) + 1.20 +0.44 37.15 ORACLE CORP (ORCL) +0.22 +0.03 13.62 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) 1-1.03 +0.18 17.69 INTEL CP (INTC) +0.72 +0.16 22.42 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.26 -0.12 46.63 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.07 +0.03 41.92 5-YEAR NOTE +0.43 +0.16 37.19 3-MONTH BILL +0.17 +0.04 23.65 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.86 48.78 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) +4.80 426.90 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.38 94.15 
Excho Rates 
YEN I 03.1100 EURO 0. 7649 POUND 0.53 14 CANADIAN$ 1.2331 
IN BRIEF 

HealthSouth CFO testifies against boss 
BlHMlNGllAM, Ala. -Fired llealthSouth 
n:o Hichard Scrushy told his stan· to "fix the numbers" to conceal a potential earnings shortfall in-mid 1996 when a m~tssive accounting scandal was just beginning, the company's first chief financial ollicer testified W(Hlnesday. 
Aaron Beam, orw of 15 fbrmer IlealthSouth executives who reached ploa deals and are oxpnctnd to testify for the .government in Scrushy's corporate fraud trial, described Scrushy as being at the heart of the fraud for which ho is on trial. 
While prosecutors and the defense agree then~ was a massive scheme to overstate earnings, Scrushy contends Beam was part of a group ol' ovprly ambitious, grnedy subordi­natns who hid it l'rom him through years of lies. 
But Beam -who helped Scrushy start llnalthSouth in I<JS4-said Scrushy was in on the conspiracy from its beginning. 
With llealthSouth's finaneial results from the second quarter of 1996 inadequate to meet Wall Street earnings forecasts, Bnam said he and another finance executive who pleaded guilty, Bill OwPns, wnnt to Scrushy to discuss a problem that began on a smaller scale as IHtrly as IIJIJ I. 
AEP to pay $81 million to end suit 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -American Electric Power said Wednesday it will pay $81 million to end a lawsuit and avoid criminal prosecu­tion by federal investigators who accused the utility's traders of manipulating prices in the natural gas market. 
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission sued the company in 2003, alleg­ing the traders sent thousands of false or mis­leading reports to industry publications from 2000-2002. 
AEP lirnd five traders in 2002 who said they reported false information to several energy industry trade publications whose priee indiees are sometimes used as a benchmark to set prices in natural gas contracts. The Columbus-based company then reported the traders' eonduct to regulators and publicly announced the matter. 


Wall Street silent on Social Security 
Bush's new privatized proposal has investors, big firms unsure of how to act 
Associated Press 

NJ.:W YOHK -Thoro's 
been a eu rious silnnee on 
Wall Street since 
President Bush proposed 
that Social Security be 
privatiwd. 

It might seem that secu­
rities f'i rm s would be in 
f'or a windfall under the 
plan -tho billions ol' dol­
lars that would pour into 
private investmnnt 
accounts would generate 
millions ol' dollars in now 
fees and commissions. 
But the big Wall Street 
firms haven't been pub­
licly supportive of' tho 
idea, probably because 
they're not sure how 
profitable those accounts 
will be. 

"Tho indus try as a whole is going to be very quiet about this," said Greg Valliere, chief' strategist at tho Stanford Washington Hesearch Group, the policy analysis arm of Stanford Group Financial ·Services. "People might look at this and see some kind of sweetheart deal, and that's not the ease at all. The industry itself is split, and nobody wants the attention." 
The ambivalent camp includes some of Wall Street's biggest names -· Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch & Co., and JP panies, speaking on con­income statement," said 401(k) companies in Morgan Chase & Co., for dition of anonymity, said Lincoln Anderson, chief terms of assets under example. Publicly, these that getting in on person­investment officer at LPL management. They and other Wall Street al investment accounts Financial Services and an already made the invost­icons have little to say, just isn't in their business economic adviser in the ment in the infrastructure other than to reiterate plan. They invest on a Reagan Administration. and have experience in their desire for a Social mueh larger scale, han­"It doesn't seem to jump managing small individ­Security system that pays dling individual accounts out as a hi!th profit mar­ual accounts. benefits and remains fis­that at minimum have gin business. People put Evon then, however, cally responsible. balances in the tens of their money in and leave prol'its are likely to 
Private Social Security thousands of dollars. it in, so there's not a lot remain small. accounts are expected to "Small money" accounts of big activity that goes "Is anyone going to look a lot like 401 (k) like the proposed Social along with these make a lot of monny on retirement plans or 529 Security aeeounts require accounts. And that means this pnr sn'? Thn answer is college savings plans -big investments in infra­little or no fens." probably no," Vallinrn they will be small hold­structure and personnel, The firms most interest­said. "Thnse accounts ings, built with minimal sinee investors must be ed in privatization, then, would bn nxpensive to deposits every month, able to rebalance their will be those who already manage, and the back offering low fees for the investments at any given specialize in managing ol'fice charges would be companies that run them. time -although the vast small money, such as considerable. And il' this And that, for the largest majority of individual Fidelity Investmnnts, actually happnned, Wall Street firms, is the investors never do. State Street Global Congress would makn problem "I don't see this stand­Advisors or Tho Vanguard su~.o nobody made a niek­
Sources at the big eom-ing out on anybody's Group _ the top three el. 


Hip hop label's founder arrested 
was charged with laundering more ehecks and paid for tons of thousands 
Associated Press 

than $1 million in drug profits from of dollars worth of his travel and hotel 
NEW YOHK -In an industry built Kenneth "Supreme" McGriff's multi­costs, prosecutors charge. on tough talk, the hip-hop label state crack and heroin operation. Hecording in a studio dubbed "Tho Murder Inc. made hundreds of mil­"They don't eall it gangster rap for Craekhouse," Murder Inc. has sold lions of dollars as it blurred the line nothing," said Frederick Snellings, about 20 million records behind Ja between the studio and the street. special agent-in-charge of the FBI's Rule and Ashanti, who were not 
Founder Irv "Gotti" Lorenzo named New York criminal division. "It's pretty charged in the indictment. Ja Hule's his company after a crime syndicate. clear that the image isn't accidental." current album, "R.U.L.E.," peaked at He borrowed his nickname from a McGriff, already in prison on a gun No. 7 on the Billboard chart. Ashanti is Mafia don. And the impresario behind violation, was charged with drug deal­appearing in the movie "Coach platinum-selling superstars Ja Rule ing, racketeering and three murders. Carter," which debuted atop the box and Ashanti made no secret of his Federal prosecutors said Gotti, his office list two weeks ago. friendship with one of' New York's brother and business partner, Chris The company, owned partly by Del' most notorious drug lords. Lorenzo, and their associates accepted Jam, a subsidiary of Universal Music, 
Prosecutors charged Wednesday frequent deliveries of McGriff's drug has made about $200 million since it that the criminal image was all too cash at their Manhattan offices. In was founded in 1997, according to a real. Gotti was led from the FBI's exchange, Gotti cut McGriff more than source familiar with its operations Manhattan office in handcuffs as he $280,000 in business and personal who insisted upon anonymity. 

page 8 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, January 27, 2005 
PoLAND 
Cheney supports Ukraine 
Associated Press 
KHAKOW Vice President Dick Cheney voiced his support Wednesday for Ukraine's new president, and his bright orange tie -sym­bolic of Viktor Yushehenko's "Orange Hevolution" -drove home the message. 

"Th!l world has been inspired by the remarkable images emanating from Ukraine in recent months," Chenny said at a cultural center in Krakow, Poland, where the two met during a heavy snowstorm. "We have watched as Ukrainians, by the hun­dreds of thousands, con­verged on Kiev's Independent Square to pre­serve their freedom and safeguard their right to determine the destiny of their nation." 
He said the Ukrainian people have shown the world the "unstoppable power of the popular will." 

Yushchenko, who sur­vived a nearly fatal poison­ing to emerge victorious in a bitterly disputed election, faces a delicate juggling act, pushing for democratic reforms and aligning Ukraine with Europe while keeping fruitful relations with Hussian President Vladimir Putin. 
On Monda~ Yushchenko smoothed relations with Putin in Moscow. On Wednesday, he stood side­by-side with Cheney at dual podiums to publicly express mutual support. 
Yushchenko mentioned Hussia along with the United States, the European Union and Poland as strategic part­ners, but he and Cheney refrained from saying any­thing that might have pro­voked Putin, who will meet with President Bush during his trip to Europe next month. 
"We want to pursue the processes of liberalization and democratization in all aspects of life that are so badly needed in Ukraine and other Eastern European nations, shoul­der-to-shoulder with our partners," said Yushchenko, his chalky complexion scarred by the near-lethal dose of dioxin he ingested during the campaign. 
"After the Orange Hevolution, the country and the nation have changed," Yushchenko said. "Not only do we have an independent country, we have a free country -a country capa­ble of pursing new, inde­pendent and responsible policy." 

Initially, the two leaders were scheduled to have a brief meeting and then eat dinner. But their meeting lasted more than an hour -more than twice as long as scheduled -and they skipped dinner. 
ISRAEL 

Israelis, Palestinians resullle contact 
The two countries diplomatically converged after a two-week freeze 
Associated Press 
JERUSALEM -Israel and the Palestinian Authority resumed diplomatic contacts Wednesday after a two-week freeze, and Israel agreed to suspend targeted killings of Palestinian militants -two more steps toward a cease­fire and a resumption of peace talks. 
Also Wednesday, Israeli and Palestinian security chiefs held their second meeting in several hours on completing plans for the deployment of 1,500 Palestinian officers at flashpoints in central and southern Gaza. Commanders 
met  at  a  key junction  in  
southern  Gaza,  ahead  of  
Thursday's deployment.  

About 100 Jewish settlers came to the junction to protest the security coordina­tion. Settlers flattened tires of Palestinian police vehicles, one of the Palestinian com­manders said. 
The relative calm of the past week was marred by a brief burst of violence in the Gaza Strip on Wednesday, including Palestinian rocket. fire and the killing of a Palestinian girl, apparently by Israeli army fire. Doctors initially said the girl was 3, but later said she might be a little older. 
It appeared unlikely the vio­lence would slow the momen­tum toward a truce. 
Palestinian Cabinet minister Saeb Erekat and a top aide to Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, Dov Weisglass, met Wednesday to discuss the emerging cease-fire deal and prepare for a meeting between Sharon and Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas. The two have been in touch by phone for several days. 
Sharon had cut off ties with the Palestinian Authority two weeks ago, after militants killed six Israeli civilians at a Gaza cargo crossing. However, the freeze was short-lived, with Israeli and 

FREE 
Palestinian security officials resuming contacts several days later. 
Erekat said his meeting with Weisglass did not produce a summit date, but that it was held in a very good atmos­phere. 
Two senior Palestinian secu­rity commanders said Wednesday that Israel has agreed to hand security con­trol of four West Bank cities 
Ramallah, Tulkarem, Qalqiliya and Jericho -to the Palestinians within 10 days. However, a senior Israeli offi­cial said the issue has not yet been discussed, noting that Israeli Defense Minister Shaul Mofaz is abroad. 
A senior U.S. envoy, mean­while, was arriving later Wednesday for talks with 
Israeli and Palestinian lead­ers on the terms of a cease-fire. Earlier this week, Palestinian mili­tant groups had agreed to sus­pend attacks on Israel, provided the Israeli mili­tary halts opera­tions, including arrest raids and targeted killings. 
Israeli security officials, speaking on condition of anonymity, said late Tuesday that 

"It puts the responsibility on the international community and the United States to force Israel to recognize the Palestinian rights. '' 
Khaled Mashaal Hamas leader 
firming Israel's decision Wednesday, but indicated a change in policy, saying Israel needs to respond to Palestinian efforts to pre­vent attacks on Israel. 
"If there is a real change (in Palestinian efforts) ... this is something we need to relate to," he told Israel Army Hadio. 
the military has agreed to halt the targeted attacks, mainly missiles fired from helicop­ters, in which dozens of fugi­tives and scores of bystanders have been killed since the outbreak of fighting in 2000. 
The most prominent Palestinians killed in the tar­geted attacks were Barnas founder Sheik Ahmed Yassin, and his successor, Abdel Aziz Rantisi, hit in missile strikes last year. 
The security officials said Israel would not act on its current target list of mili­tants, but they warned that if Palestinians resume hostile 
activity, they will target those responsible. 

Israel informed tho Palestinians of the decision, the security officials said. 
On Tuesday, Barnas' top leader told The Associated Press that his group is ready to suspend attacks on Israel if it stops targeting militant leaders and releases Palestinian prisoners. 
"This is a moment of test," l-lamas leader Khaled Mashaal, who is based in Damascus, Syria, said by cel­lular phone. "It puts the responsibility on the interna­tional community and the United States to force Israel to recognize the Palestinian rights." 
Israeli Vice Premier Ehud Olmert stopped short of con­
However, the Israeli military has not halted arrest raids, particularly in the West Bank. 
Abbas was to leave Friday for visits to Egypt, Jordan, Russia and Turkey. 
If he obtains u.s._.:: and Egyptian-backed guarantees that Israel will halt military operations, he is expected to return to the Gaza Strip for a formal cease-fire declaration, Palestinian officials said. 
Israeli and Palestinian gen­erals decided at a two-hour meeting late Tuesday on a plan for the deployment of Palestinian police in central and southern Gaza. 
LEBANON 



Bush to Iran: stay out of Iraq 
Associated Press 
EIRUT-Iran should stay 
out of Iraq's elections, 
President Bush said 
Wednesday on pan-Arab tel­
lwision. 
"Iranians should not be 
trying to unduly influence 
the elections," Bush said of 
Sunday's polls in an inter­
view with the Dubai-based 
satellite channel Al-Arabiya, 
according to a White llouse 
transcript. 
U.S. and Iraqi officials have expressed fears that Iran, a Shiite Muslim-majori­ty state on Iraq's eastern border, is trying to expand its influence through the elections, in which Iraqi Shiites are expected to win the largest number of seats in a transitional national assembly. 
Iran has rejected accusa­
tions it was trying to influ­
ence the elections, saying 
that Iraqis have made it 
clear they won't take orders 
from abroad. 
Bush said he does not 
think the elections will pro­
duce a pro-Iranian govern­
ment in Baghdad. 
"The future of Iraq depends upon Iraqi national­ism and the Iraq character -the character of Iraq and Iraqi people emerging. You know, there's been longtime problems between Iran and Iraq, and I'm confident that Iraqi nationalism and Iraqi pride and the history of Iraq and traditions of Iraq will be the main focus of the new government, and reflect the new government," he said. 
Bush also paid tribute to 
Iraqis and urged them to 
vote this weekend. 
"I know thousands and thousands of Iraqis want to vote. I know they cherish the idea of being able to vote, and I hope as many Iraqis vote as possible," he said. 
../:.:· 

NOTRE DAME STuDENTS: GATE 10 OF THE JAOC. 2·3 PM 
.~H[U~tSilJA~. FEBRUARY 3 'FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 4

SAINT MARY·s STUDENTS: o•LAUGHLIN AUDITOIUUM. NOON..l PM SAT"QRDAY. FEBRUARY 5 
.,,Wi~\@JW~W@Mft.&.'rw~)~''''···· 

*BRING YOUR STUDENT I.D.* ALL SHOWS START AT 'l:SO PM SMc·s o•LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM
EACH J.D. IS GOOD FOR TWO TICKETS MAX. TWO I~D. •s PEB STUDE ' ........:·::·::·mn:w·'"''··· 
I 
I 
Thursday, January 27, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
I 
Bush asks for Atnericans' patience 
The President pleads for Iraqis to defy terrorism, vote in election 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Prnsidnnt Bush plnadnd for i\rnerieans' patinnee Wndnosday on what lw eoncndnd was "a vnry dis­couraging day" of death and violnncn for U.S. troops in Iraq. lin urgml Iraqis to defy terror­ist threats and votn in Sunday's elnctions. 
Bush hold a White llouse news conferenen hours arter morn than 30 Amnriean troops pnrishnd in a helicopter crash in western Iraq and insurgnnts killed live othnrs in the dead­liest day ynt for U.S. forces. Thn deaths pushed the American toll above 1.400. 
Unwavering in the course he has sot, Bush pledgnd: "We'll havn tho troop levels necessary to complete the mission. And that mission is to enable Iraq to defend hnrsnlf from terrorists -homegrown or terrorists that come in from outside of thn country." lie made elear that Iraq is nowhere near ready to handle its own securi­ty, and he talked about U.S. involvement over the next year. 
Four days before Iraq's elec­tions and a week before his own State of the Union address, the president grap­pled with pointed questions about the war's heavy priee and growing doubts that a sta­ble, d1m10cratic Iraq will ever nnwrge. In money alone, Iraq is costing taxpayers morn than $1 billion a week. 
Democrats registered their unhappiness with Bush's han­dling of Iraq in the Senate's 85­13 vote to eonlirm Condoleezza Hieo as sncretary of stato. It was tlw strongest negative vote against a secretary of state at lnast since World War 11. 

Bush said Americans are not alone in their qualms. Iraqis are "losing a lot of people" in bombings and assassinations, he said, and "some are feeling intimidated" about threats against voters. Moreover, Bush said: "The Iraqi people are wondering whether or not this nation has the will necfJssary to stand with them as a democra­cy evolves. 
"The enemy would like noth­ing more than the United Statns to precipitously pull out and withdraw before the Iraqis are pr~pared to defend them­selves. 
It was the 18th full-blown news conference of Bush's presidency and the first of his second term, covering issues ranging from Social Security to questions raised by his inaugu­ral address. Bush made these points: 
+ 
lie recognizes that some people are worried about the political risks and financial costs of overhauling Social Security by creating private investment accounts _ a step that could cost $1 trillion to $2 trillion in transition costs. "What you're hearing a little bit is whether or not it is worth the politieal priee. I think it is," he said. He pledged to lead a battle in Congress and travel across the country to convince Americans the system is in trouble. 

+ 
llis inaugural address prom­ising to spread freedom and end tyranny around the world was not intended as a state­ment of new policy but rather a ref1ection of the strategy he 


pursued in his first term. Even some or his supporters have been nervous that it signaled plans for global U.S. interven­tion. Bush said he has raised human rights concerns with China and will be direct with Russia's Vladimir Putin when they meet next month in Slovakia. "I will remind him that if he intends to continue to look West, we in the West believe in Western values," Bush said. 
+ TheEducation Department was wrong to pay conservative commentator Armstrong Williams $240,000 to plug its polieies. "I expect my Cabinet secretaries to make sure that that practice doesn't go for­ward," the president said. 
The bloodshed in Iraq and Sunday's elections framed much of the questions of Bush's news conference. 
He said he lacked details about the helicopter crash in Iraq's western desert. "The story today is going to be very discouraging to the American people," Bush said. "I under­stand that. ... But it is the long­term objective that is vital, and that is to spread freedom." 
Sunday's elections in Iraq represent a major test for Bush, who has staked his repu­tation on spreading democracy across the Middle East. "I anticipate a grand moment in Iraqi history," he said. 
"We anticipate a lot of Iraqis will vote," the president said. "Clearly there are some who arc intimidated." 
Asked what would be a cred­ible turnout, Bush pronounced the elections a success even before they happen. 



Returning Home... 
~ 
Prosecutor's recent findings favor Cosby 
In two weeks authorities will know charges 
Associated Press 

NOHRlSTOWN, Pa. -A prosn­cutor investigating a fondling allegation against Bill Cosby said Wednesday that the accuser's yearlong delay in coming for­ward, and their contact in the past year, weighnd in the comodi­an's favor. 
Authorities interviewed Cosby on Wednesday and expeet to know in two weeks whether they will bring charges in response to the allegation that he fondled the woman in his suburban Philadelphia home, Bruce L. Castor Jr., the Montgomery County district attorney, said at a news conference. 
"I think that factors such as failure to disclose in a timely manner and. contacts with the alleged perpetra­tor after the event 
that Cosby had given her some medication and later fondled her in his Cheltenham Township mansion a year earlier, after they and others met for dinner. 
The woman's attorney, Dolores 

M. Troiani, issued a strongly worded statement Wednesday defending the reporting delay and saying: "Our client is the vic­tim of a sexual assault." 
Troiani said the trauma her client experienced, especially since she considered Cosby a friend and mentor, and Cosby's celebrity made it dinicult for her to come forward, and that delays are common in such eases. 
"Look at what happened to Kobe Bryant's accuser," Troiani told The Associated Pross. "We're still blaming the victim." 
Troiani said Cosby had given the woman a pill that rendered her semiconscious, and that her client and Cosby were alone at the house, except {or any staff that might have bnnn there. 
Castor said tho woman's allega­tion, if true, would constitute a misdemeanor or low-lnvnl felony. 
lie said the decision to nln charges would come down to whether tlH\re was eriminal intent. 
"In Pennsylvania, wn chargn people for criminal conduct. Wn don't charge pnople with making a mistake or doing something foolish," Castor said. 
The distriet attornnry addnd that Cosby and his attorney, Walter M. Phillips Jr., "have bonn fully eoopnrative without delay or hesitation." 
Phillips said he and Cosby met with Pnnnsylvania invnstigators for about 90 minutes. The mnnt­ing took place outside tho state, but he declinnd to say whore. 
"I fool hopeful, 
nven optimistic,


"/feel hopeful even

are factors that that no eriminal weigh toward Mr. optimistic that no charges will be Cosby," Castor filed," Phillips said. 
criminal charges 

said. The woman, a
will be filed. ,,

The woman former basketball went to Canadian standout at. thn authorities Jan. Walter M. Phillips Jr. University of 13, contending Arizona, worked at
attorney 
Temple University 
in Philadelphia for several ynars before returning to her native Canada to attend mas­sage school. 
Cosby, 67, is a Temple alumnus and booster who frequently attends campus evenl<'i. 
The woman told The Philadelphia Inquirer for a story Wednesday that she came for­ward beeausc she wanted to do the right thing. 
"What would you do'! I did what I thought was right," she was quotnd as saying from lwr homo in Ontario. 
Troiani said she thought Cosby and the woman had seen each other once or t.wiee in tho int(~r­vening year. and that Cosby had met her parents in Canada before the alleged incident. 
Troiani declinnd to have hnr client spoak to tho AP. It is the AP's policy not to publish names of alleged sexual assault victims without their eonsnnt. 


Reflections from Returning Overseas Missioners who served in Chile, Honduras, Nicaragua, South Africa, and China 
rroxrqJllTI 

6:00pm at tlie Centerfor Socia{Concerns 
-(}lizza and ~fresliments wi{{6e served­





,,±7 
Sponsored by IIoly Cross Associates 


THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, January 27, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
If you go chasing 'archies' 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Man Lozar 

MANAGING EDITOR  BusiNESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631~4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoco@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBsERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe studenrs ofthe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including adverrisemenrs, is nor governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and deparrment editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions duo ugh letters is encourag, l. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Matt Luzar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

TI11.· Ohscrvcr (USPS 599 2-41.11.10) is pulllishcd Monday dm11,1gh Friday cxccp1 during cx.1m antJ v.1cadon peritXls.. A ~ubscription to '01e Obsc-rvt"r is $100 for one ou.:adcmic year;$<;') fi1r one semester. 
'l11c (')~rver is ptlb!ished ~r; • [l()S1MA$TER 024 Snuth Dinin~ Hall S....11d addn.-ss.corrc~;timl~ tv: 
Notte D~mc, IN 46'556-0n\) ThcOb~t:.Mlr 

l'criudic.ll pus1.1gt' paid :u Notrr Dame P.O. Bo:x"TTl) and otdditional m~iling offict'l>. 024 Somh Dil)lng Hall 
Nmrc D~me, lN 4655f-,..On9 
111<: Oho;crvcr is il member <>f the As-~ dated Pr~. All rcproducdon rights .an.­re$CM:d. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
Teresa Fralish Pat Leonard Jen Rowling Steve Corey · Peter Leahy Kevin Brennan 
Viewpoint Scene Sarah Vabulas Kenyatta Storin Graphics Illustrator Kelly MacDonald Katie Knorr 
Oh, it was a fine, line day on South Quad. A day perfect for leisurely strolling or making daisy-chains. But alas, there were papers to turn in. What to do, what to do? 
The DeBartolo clus­
Bob

ter was packed to the 
Masters

gills. The building manager of O'Shag still stood silently stu­I Fall on the pelied, wondering Floor and/ where )lis computer Laughing lounge had gone. Yes, for young Bob, the world had turned upside down. He felt further and further and further away from WebFile by the · minute. 
Dear reader, this is all very true and all very, very remarkable, as you'll soon see. While pondering how to print my semester-ending research paper last month, I stood outside of Bond Hall and watched as an "archie" ran by. With his sleep-deprived eyes twitching and North Face jacket twirling, I heard the archie say to himself "the blueprints are late! The blueprints are late!" 
Thinking he was on to something, I, the good English major, followed him down the architecture hole. (I was to lind out, of course, that this "hole" was actually the side door to Bond.) 
"Kind archie, please, could you direct me to a computer lab?" I politely implored. But no sooner did I speak the words, than did the archie disappear. 
To be more precise, it was rather 
more of a decreasing than a disappear­
ing. To my astonishment, I had grown 
10 times as tall as I had been on South 
Quad. As I gazed around the increasing­
ly smaller room, I happened upon a .,peculiar bottle. It was a Mountain Dew 
Code Red with a note reading "Drink 
Me" attached. I quiekly imbibed this 
favorite drink of the architecture stu­
dent and returned to a normal height. 
Suddenly, coming into focus before me 
was a door. Being the perfect height 
now to enter, I snuek in. As I walked out 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
into the next curious world, I saw two men standing with their arms around each other's neck. I read the name tags on their Adidas warm-up jackets to dis­eover that they were brothers, Tweedle­Ty and Tweedle-Davie. What in the world w.ere they doing here? 
"South quad isn't any fun," said Tweedle-Davie. "All people want to talk about are Bowl games." 
"Supposedly," added Tweedle-Ty. "Please don't tell anyone we're here. If you keep our secret, we'll turn your paper in for you." 
I couldn't bear to stay with them. Just then, out of the eorner of my eye, I saw a most remarkable apparition. It was a big, body-less smile and I paused to hear it laugh. As I listened, its body 
came into focus. It was the Chesire Accountant. 
"Find a job yet, artsy?" The Chesire Aceountant asked. "I've been offered a consultant position with a leading investment firm. And you?" 
I certainly didn't feel the need to chat with this ever-so annoying creature. Luekily for me, it faded away as quickly as it had appeared, but not before suggesting I continue my adventure in architecture land by visiting the Mad 
Dissertater. 
Taking a break from footnoting his dissertation, I found the Mad Dissertater drinking tea with the Hookah Smoking Graduate Student. Noticing me noticing them, the pair spoke at once. 
"You, boy, quickly. Compare Plato with Heidegger." 
"I can't." I answered. 
"No, not Kant!" The Graduate Student bellowed, the hookah falling from his shocked mouth. The Mad Dissertater didn't move his eyes from his research. He merely oll'ered a snooty chuekle and went back to the Penguin Classic Edition he was highlighting. I saw their atten­tion turn. The tiny radio on their tea service was tuned to NPH and a brand new "Talk of the Nation" was about to air. I took the opportunity to scurry away but not before I began to lose all hope of ever printing out my paper. 

It got euriouser and curiouser from there. I chanced to eome upon my best printing hope, the Bond Hall duster. But, as my luck would have it, the ResLife Queen had converted it into a human chess board. 
I heard cruel cries of "off with his head! Twenty hours of service!" I made it to the print release station but 
pawns and rooks quickly sur­rounded me, their aceusing looks discovering I was not an architecture student. I was a stranger in a strange, strange land. But wait. What was that I had in my pocket? Yes, it was everyone's favorite dining hall treat, a spicy sea nugget. I took a nibble and I grew even larger than before. With my tiny paper pouring off the printer and into my hands, I burst through the ceiling and 
escaped to the safety of 

O'Shag, far, far away from archi­
tecture land. 
Before I left, I glanced back into that strange world. There was Tweedle-Ty. He was booking a flight to Seattle. Curious indeed. 
Bob Masters is a senior English major. He can be contacted at amasters@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
How many of your professors are priests, brothers or sisters? 
Vote by today at 5 p.m. at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/ like thinking big. If you're going to be thinking anyway, you might as well think big." 
Donald Trump real esta~e developer 




THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, January 27, 2005 page I I 
Reclaiming the debate 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Celebrate the V-Day mission 

Last yoar Wll went to the show just like everyone elso. We laughed, we cried and th1m Wll decided that next yoar we definitely wanted to be a part of it. But tho "it" we wantod was to bo a part of tho production -to get up on stage and talk about how our vaginas would wnar jewels or to get a chance to ~ear that supnr short skirt that we bought from Meijer for an unsightly priee. 
So, we triod out and found out that the Vagina Monolof..'lJOS is so much more than a show about vaginas. It's a show about women-all sorts of women­old, young, Catholie, Jewish, liberal, conservative, blond or brunette. So if you've got a vagina or know somoono that does, you can rolate to and love the show. 
Thll Vagina Monologues is not a sox show or a degradation of the female pop­ulation. Actually, it is tho nxact opposite. Eve Ensler's play eelebrates the unique boauty and inte!ligfmco that every woman possesses. The mission of V-Day is straightforward-Until tho Violence Stops. 
By beeoming a part of this fnrvor, we learned about the V-Day dreams-that one day, thn women in Afriea will be free from the horrors of female genital mutilation, that tho women of Pakistan can show their add-burned faces to the world, that the womnn of South Bond will be cherished instead of brutally beat­en and that thn womnn of Notre Dame will usn the blessings that God gave us and speak out with and for tho women of the world. 
So eom11 and see what it's all about. 
Karla Bell Molly Savage sen10rs off-campus Jan. 26 
U-WIRE 


Iraq elections in1portant for A111ericans too 
The moment has arrived. Nearly two years after the end or "major combat" and seven months since the "transfer of power," Iraq will hold eleetions Sunday for a 275-person National Assembly. This collection of Iraqis will draft a constitution, 
Zach Van Hart
the tirst one seen by this country in 50 years. It's a moment -University of 
Cincinnati
regardless of the exer­
The News
cised method, the threat 
Record
of insurgents or the likely boycott of Sunni Muslim voters-that must occur. 
And not to discard the immense implica­tions this eleetion potentially holds for Iraq, the main rea.'lon the election must proceed is an American sentiment. 
It's difficult to think of Americans first and not Iraqis when examining this issue. Then again, it's not. The majority of us only under­stand the emotions and thoughts of any Iraqi via the media. When it comes to American opinions and eyewitnoss accounts, many of us turn to a soldier we know who has served time during this war. 
We talk to soldiers who peered into tho eyes or Iraqis, some eivilians and, undoubted­ly, some insurgents. These are soldiers who risked their lives for moments like Sunday. And these are the people, at least the Americans for whom this eloction must pro­ceed. 
No act can ever make up for allowing 1,372 (and eounting) American deaths because of a war spurred by no acts of aggression against America. No eued-up speeches by President George W. Bush, no letters supposedly autographed by Defense Seeretary Donald Humsfeld, no medals of honor ean make a shred of difl'erence to the family and friends of our lost soldiers. 
The only act worse than allowing these sol­diers to die for a .seemingly unjust cause, is allowing these soldiers to die for a cause we did not see through to the end. 
Elections must proceed and this attempt of demoeracy in Iraq must continue. Sunday marks no guarantee ofsuecnss in Iraq. The insurgents eontinue to wrnak havoe. The Sunni boycott croates a serious threat of dvil war and the overthrowing of the approach­ing constitution. llatrod for Amnriea for our actions remains throughout the world. 

But l(>r the Am1~riean soldiers that died li>r this cause, we must proc11od. 
We must for Kirk J. Bosselmann, 21, of Napa, Calif.. who died from mwmy fire Nov. 27, 2004. 
We must for George Mitchell, 35, of Hawlings, Md., who died from a missile attack April 7, 2003. 
We must for Hamon Torres, Arron Clark and many, many others. If we postpone the elections, if we concede to tho torror bom­bardment by insurgents, we tarnish the lnga­cy of every Amnriean soldinr. 
What would that say to the othnr thou­sands of soldiers in Iraq now? I low eould we explain the billions upon billions of dollars spent on this war'? 
Many proclaim thn impossibilities to these questions now, yet them is still time to miraeulously pull the rabbit out of the hat. No matter our gashnd 
reasoning, and drastie miscalculations ol' this war, Bush can still pull out if' he ean turn Iraq into a full-fledged democracy. 
But we cannot quit now. 
Of course the Iraqis deserve this elnetion'? So do American soldiers, alivn and doemL<>ed. It's impossible to look into the parenL<>' nyns of any of those 1,372 lost soldiers and say, "You~. child died to proteet America's free­dom. 
But there's still hopn to say, "Your child died to bring freedom to anothor eountry." For this hope to remain, Sunday's elections must proceed. 
This column originally appeared on .Jan. 26 in The News Record. the daily publication at the University ofCincinnati. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
It's almost Fnbruary, month of that vnn1wable Notre Damn tradition. tlw annual dnbato over Tho Vagina Monologues. For the bone lit of the fmshmnn horn's how it works: On Feb. 14 if most of' thn lottors puhlishod on the Vinwpoint pagn denounce tho Monologuos then thoro will hn six morn wenks of' winter, whornas il' 
Peter Wicks 
tlw rm~jority of' lnttnrs dnl\md tho play 
tlwn thorn will still hn six more wnnks ol' wintnr bneausn, wnll, that's just how Englishman things arn in Northnrn Indiana. Abroad 
Aeeording to protocol, thn first bar­raw~ of lnttnrs will altnrnatn bl1twnnn splnrwtie erins that tlw play is oll\msivn to mon. demeaning to wonwn, and a dirnd attaek on Notrn Damn's Catholie lwritagn on tho onn hand, and a series of high-mindnd claims that it is a enlnhration of women's voiees on the otlwr. Tho lattnr arn ol'tnn aeeompanind by the unmistak­ahln suggnstion that anyonn who doubts this is probably rnprnssnd, with hang-ups about womnn's bodins, and pos­sibly womnn's sull'ragn. 
Nnxt sonwonn will write in to point out that Mary had a vagina. At this point tho rnador should drink a shot. 
Finally tlw rasn l\1r tlw dofons11 will sottlo into two linns of' argumnnt; tho Expnrinnco Alibi and tho Dialogue Camhit. 
Thn Expnrinnco Alibi is thn suggestion that since tho play is has11d upon intnrvinws with real womnn, eriticism of thn play is tantamount to an attaek on thosn womnn. A<> a pre­vious director of' thn play wrote in those pagns, "To eon­dmnn this eollnetion ol' storins is to eondomn theso women and tho truth of' thoir lives." 
l.nt's bring tlw rhotoric: baek down to Earth. Eve Ensler's play is b<L<>nd on intorviows with real women, but it hardly l(1llows that thn audinnen is gntting dirnet access to thnir nxp1~rinnce. Firstly, pnopln have a way of pieking up sif:.,•THtls about what thnir intorvinwor wants to hear-or are we to bnlilwn that bnforn Enslnr bngan her project thorn was a woman walking around just desperate to tell somoonn, anyone, that if her vagina got drnssed it would wear a pink boa? 
Secondly, Ensler is a playwright and not a stenographer, and she has allow11d hnrsoll' far more l'rendom with the interview matnrial than the "rna! women's stories" ar).,'lJ­mont allows. In thn published vnrsion of the script there are author's notes sandwiched between each of the mono­logues. In one such note Ensler writes "After I finished this piece I read it to tl1e woman on whoso interview I'd based it. She didn't really f{Jel it had anything to do with her." 
Finally, there is the obvious faet that Ensler h<L<> been selective in which of her hun­drnds of interviews she developed into monologues. Anyone with an ear f(>r spo­ken English can tell that these arn not verbatim reeords of stories told to her, but even if they were that would not predude tho presenee of an idnologieal agenda imposed through nditorial ehoie­es. 
None of these points are meant as criti­cisms. It is Ensler's play and thorn is no reason why she shouldn't have taken artis­tic lieense with her soureo matorial or cho­sen stories whieh suit her message. But by the same token, it is Ensler's play, and to try to deflect criticisms of the play by treating them as personal attacks on h11r anonymous interviewees is either dishonest or illiterate. 
The other argument which recurs with liturgical re).,'lJlar­ity is the Dialogue Gambit. Each year, after the first lew volleys have been fired, the direetor of the play will write to The Observer and eourtnously thank by name the authors of some of the angry letters for (as Lindsey Horvath put it two years ago) "continuing a dialogue that inereases awareness in order to stop tho violnnen." By euplwmistieal­ly calling a sories of'barbnd oxchangns a "dialogun", thn V­Day organizers can daim even tim most hostile r.ritidsm <L'> a sign of victory. 
Perhaps it's my cynical nature, but I always IEHll that tho self-styled "vagina warriors" want dialogue in t.hn way that an evangelist wants dialogue -they want to hoar what doubters have to say only in so l'ar as it might reveal what­ever psychological obstadns arn provnnting them from sno­
ing the light. The roaetion of women to the play has, unsur­prisingly, boon varied. Some roport that thny found iL<> sexual franknnss funny, touehing, and liborating, while others have found tho play vulgar, iL<> eontral mnenit silly, and iL<> 
viow ofwormm domoaning. What this shows is that women's nxpnrinnee is var­ied and at times eontradictory, but tlwrP is no hint in the play, the publislwd seript, or any of thn voluminous outpour­ings from the V-Day movement that any women eould lind tim projod anything 
other than ompoworing. If Enslor wa<; a bottnr artist slw would have had the hon11sty to admit that thn fad that many women would prnl(w to knnp their private parts privatn cannot just bn writ­ten oil' as a sign of' sexual roprossion. If shn was a better artist she would havo choson a lhrmat lhr 
her play that allowed her to aeknowlodgo dissnnting voie­os. If Ensler was really intornstod in promoting dialoguo, she eould have startod by putting some in her play. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in the Philosophy Department. Peter can be contacted at pwicks({llnd.edu. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe 
author and not necessarily those of71w Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE

page 12 
Thursday, January 27, 2005 
ALBUM REVIEWS 

Dylan's 1 Tracks' is a timeless classic 
By JULIE BENDER Scene Music Critic 

Every once in a while an album comes along that can withstand the test of' time. Lyrics that echo the truth of every human heart, melodies that ring from the soul and a spiritual essence that never col­lects dust are vital if an album is to be ageless. 
"Blood on the Tracks" is one of these albums. Even 30 years after its release, "Tracks" remains an essential component of Bob Dylan's repertoire and of the history of pop­ular music. 
From the opening strums of the guitar to the harmonica to that unforgettable voice, "Blood on the Tracks" hits like you like a train and leaves you bleeding long after. Written in the throes of a tumul­tuous divorce from his wife and after a dry spell from his success in the sixties, "Blood on the Tracks" is a cathartic enterprise for Dylan. 
Folk strumming, and later electric guitars, had characterized his earli­er albums of abstract social com­mentary. Dylan had become an icon to the sixties generation, describing "their" world with his words. Through this, he had managed to keep his own world intensely pri­vate, maintaining a barrier between himself and the public. 
When "Blood on the Tracks" hit the shelves in January of 1975, this barrier began to cave -if only for a moment. Each song contained a story and created immortal charac­ters that amble in memory long after musical strains die out. Who can forget "the old man with broken teeth stranded without love" or the "Jack of Hearts"? 
The most unforgettable character, however, is Dylan himself. Unlike his earlier albums, when Dylan sings "I" on "Blood on the Tracks," there is the sense that he truly is singing about himself. There is an irre­sistible vulnerability in songs like "Simple Twist of Fate," "If You See 

Her Say Hello" and "Buckets of Rain." It is a vulnerability that endears us and never lets go. 
The emotional range of the album is exemplified in songs like "Idiot Wind." The fourth track on the album, "Idiot Wind" is an eight­minute journey into the depths of the human psyche, struggling with love, hate, hurt, anger, revenge and existence. Dylan vacillates between bitterness and nostalgia for his for­mer naivete, only to come to the helpless conclusion that "We're idiots, babe. It's a wonder we can even feed ourselves." 
"Shelter from the Storm" is a lyri­cal masterpiece, providing Biblical wisdom in nearly every line. Dylan sings about his own life, but his struggles unmistakably mirror the universal effort to cope with exis­tence: "the one-eyed undertaker, he blows a futile horn. 'Come in,' she said, 'I'll give you shelter from the storm."' 


From the wandering tale of break up, "Tangled Up in Blue," to the pleading "You're a Big Girl Now," Dylan covers it all. He touches on the sweetness of new love in "You're Gonna Make Me Lonesome When You Go," and meets with the blues in "Meet Me in the Morning." 
Leaving no emotion unchecked, "Blood on the Tracks" is both per­sonal and universal. It remains, in the opinion of many, Dylan's master­piece, along side "Bringing It All Back Home," "Highway 61 Revisited" and "Blonde on Blonde." 
The only way to do the album jus­tice is to put it on and let the songs speak for themselves, even 30 years after they were written. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 
Dears turn studio prowess into stage brilliance 
By MATTHEW SOLARKSI Scene Music Critic 

Fresh off a whirlwind year of sold out shows, high praise press and accolades right and left, Montreal's The Dears return to capitalize with this, a live record. "Thank You Good Night Sold Out" seeks to encapsulate The Dears' oft-gushed­about live show, currently approaching legendary status in its native Canada, on one tiny piece of iridescent plastic. And shine it does! 
On this fabulous record, listeners are treated to classic and soon-to­be-classic Dears songs, eight in all, comprising nearly 70 continuous minutes of music and melodrama. This is hardly your substandard, affected "All My Children" melodra­ma, however -it is Eugene O'Neill at his dramaturgical best: epic, sprawling, tortuous and tortured. Massive guitars courtesy of Martin Pelland and Patrick Krief clash and conspire with keyboard and synthe­sizer strings, provided by the sex­tet's literal feminine side, Valerie Jodoin-Keaton and Natalia Yanchak. Drummer George Donoso III keeps superb pace with the many moods of The Dears, lending a practiced sense of rhythm to the 
brooding build-ups to the apocalyp­tic crash-downs that characterize the typical Dears track. 
Frontman and principal song­writer Murray Lightburn rises above all the drama, chaos and occasional bombast of gnarled gui­tars and cinematic synth strings with his unmistakable, effervescent croon. As a self-professed acolyte of Morrissey, the influence of the former Smiths singer on Lightburn comes as no surprise. For his part, however, Lightburn adds his own twists and idiosyncrasies to Morrissey's expressive vocal approach, including a willingness to wring every last dollop of emo­tion out of certain notes. This proves a sublime compliment to The Dears' theatrical sound. 
After releasing its second record, the stellar "No Cities Left" in late 2003, The Dears began to win the hearts and affections of several music media heavyweights. Rolling Stone recently named the band one of ten acts to watch, while British weekly NME awarded it the much coveted "single of the week" last August for the chilling "We Can Have It." Said track is, in fact, con­spicuously absent from "Thank You." The tracks that do make the cut, however, more than make up for this oversight. 

"Thank You" opens slowly, with the tense, almost foreboding instru­mental introduction of "Autonomy." Murray's vocals do not rise to the fore until nearly four minutes into the track, which broods and boils until unleashing what the opening chords portend: a relentless guitar­driven assault, punctuating Lightburn's exalted lamentations. Following this ten-minute epic (and after some loony in the crowd vocalizes his profound love for The Dears) is the significantly sunnier "C'etait Pour la Passion,'' a track from the first Dears record whose jangling guitars and prancing key­board recall 80's British act, Felt. 

Lightburn and company tear through five more choice cuts, including the explosive "Lost in the Plot," before arriving at the only appropriate conclusion: a mael­strom rendition of "Pinned Together, Falling Apart" that clocks in at 22 minutes. 
The Dears still have a few kinks to work out before they can achieve widespread success and seduce the ever-skittish hoi polloi; for now, "Thank You" stands as a perfect testament to an act that may some­day prove legendary. Even beyond 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 
WSND·FM 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE

Thursday, January 27, 2005 
page 13 
TV executives fear wrath of the FCC 
Associated Press 
Tlwro's no morn potnnt symbol for llollywood TV nxncutivos thnso days than l'ntnr Crif'lin's pixilatnd buttocks. 
That was tfw imago on Fox a few wnPks bark. Tlw network's executives ordored a !i-year-old ''Jo'amily (;uy" SI'I'IW bltiiTPd bncause it Was IWrVOUS about what tlw Federal <:ommunit~at.ions Commission might think ol' <;ril'f'in's naked rear end -a rartoon rharaetPr's naked rear -on tPinvision. 
In a snparatn Ppisode, Fox similarly t·ovnrnd tlw baby behind of Stewie, I'Pt.nr's son. Both w1~rn shown with no nlaetion wlwn "Family Guy" ran ini­tially a hall'-dnr.ade ago 
TV oxeeutives are extremely jittery about the FCC those days, concerned that tho taste standards thoy had bnconw used to have become as blurred as I'Ptnr's butt. 
1\nd Friday's resignation of PCC Chairman Michael K. Powell will likely add to tlwir uncnrtainty. Powell backed a record $7.7 million in indecency lines lnv1ded by the FCC last year, up from $4H,OOO the year before he became chairman. 
"We can't havn a elnar view ol' the FCC guidnlines becatiSe the FCC guide­lirws are not dear," said Gail Bnrman, Fox nntertainment president. "We have to lw eheeking and second-guessing ourselves now, and that's really diffi­cult. We have to protect our al'liliatns." 
l·:ach of Fox's 16<J stations was lined $7,000 by tho FCC in Octobnr for airing an episode of "Marrind By 1\mnrica" that showed people licking whipped criHtm from strippers' bodies and a man in his underwear being spanked by strippers. 
The jitters extend well beyond llollywood, as witnessed by the dozens of 1\BC affiliates that would not air the 1\cadnmy Award-winning drama "Saving Private Ryan" last November because of concerns about violence and profanity. 
Thnir crities have little sympathy. 
"They're lucky they got away with as much as they did," said Laura Mahanoy, spokeswoman for the conser­vative watchdogs Parents Television Council. "It rnminds me of a person who has been spneding as much as they wanted and now they're getting tickets." 
Fox may have blurred some rear ends, but Mahaney said a recent "Family Guy" episode lel't intact a father-son chat about penis size. 
'In this post-Janet Jackson world' 
Janet Jackson's nipple exposure led to the FCC assessing massive lines. 
The butt-blurring "seems a little extreme," but "Family Guy" creator Seth MacFarlane said he recognizes the tightrope networks arc walking. 
"1\ll networks are under enormous pressure from the FCC and we deal with that every day," he said. "1 mean, the phrase 'in this post-Janet Jackson world"is kind of bandied about like they're talking about September 11th." 
CBS, which aired the brief glimpse of Jackson's breast that started every­thing a year ago at the Supnr Bowl, had its own buttocks self-censorship a few weeks ago. An episode of "Without a Trace" showed a naked man l'llnning down a street, filmed from behind. 
The network ordered the scene cut put, reasoning that "we don't need that," said CBS Chairman Leslie 
Moonves. 
CBS is refusing to pay the FCC's $550,000 fine imposed last fall for Jackson's famed wardrobe malfunc­tion. 
"What we're saying to our producers is, 'Guys, let's not be stupid about this,"' Moonves said. "Clearly, tlHH'n's a change in how the FCC is looking at us. We're not changing our content. But by the same token. we havP to be aware of what the world is out there." 
1\ PBS nxecutivo said last wePkend the network is altering a scene in tlw upeorning movie "Dirty War," which is being shown on the Public Broadcasting Service next month after a run on IIBO, that shows a naked woman being scrubbed down after a fictional chemical attack. 1\n outtah will be used that shows the woman at a more discreet angle. 
"We don't want to be irresponsible and it is difficult," Fox's Berman said. "We arc attempting to do our best to find our way on this very complicated issue and very complicated landscape and we ask the FCC for better guide­lines." 
But as a regulatory body, the .FCC responds to complaints and individual circumstances, said Gene Kimmelman, director of public policy for Consumers Union and a close monitor of the feder­al agency. 
'The FCC can't bail them out' 
Asking the FCC for guidelines is like asking a court, before a crime is com­mitted, whether it would be murder or manslaughter, he said. 
"The FCC can't bail them out," he said. "They're not going to give them a wink and a nod as to what program­ming is acceptable." 

Berman doesn't SPe her request as unreasonable. "They'rn the ones who are fining people," she said. 
Thn FCC doesn't l'inn feature l'ilm­rnakers for nudity or violnncP in movies beeausn pnopln make nmseious dnt'i­sions wlwther or not to buy a tirkPt and snP thmn, lw said. Tlw sanw logic. holds for cabin networks likn IIBO or Showtinw that a viPwPr must pay for. For tlw most part, if' you havn a TV, you'll !{Ill t.lw broadcast networks--no choice is involved. 
Thn broadeasti'J's can eliminate thP problem by making t.lwmsnlvPs avail­able "a Ia cartll," or giving custoinPrs tlw chance to pick or choose whirh networks to aecnpt whnn buying a cabin or satnllite sc1rvicn instead of having to ac1:ept a basie packagn where they are aln1ady inr.ludnd, lw said. 
1\ network willing to voluntarily risk cutting its distribution in that manner is about as likely as a blizzard on the Fourth of July. 
"The uneertaintins and conenrn about the First 1\mnndment have lwcm very mueh drivnn by thn business dnr.i­sions of Hollywood to force consunwrs to purchase more channels than they really want to get," Kimmelman said. 
There arc othor aventws, said tho PTC's Mahaney, mentioning ABC's "Lost"as a solid, popular series frne of taste issues 
"You can make compelling nntertain­ment programming and it doesn't IHtvn to be fu II of sex and violence," she said. 
Meanwhile, MacFarlane is looking forward to a day when he doesn't havn to worry about how mtH:h skin his ani­mators are drawing. 
"We hope that it will pass and that the good folks in Washington will como 
'Catwoman' leads Razzie film 'dishoners' 
Associated Press 
Thn fur is still flying over llalle Bnrry's aetion flop "Catwoman." 
The Hazzies, which mock the worst in film, gave "Catwoman" a leading snvnn nominations Monday, among thorn wo1·st pir.turn, worst actross for Bnrry and worst supporting players for Sharon Stone and Lambert Wilson. "Catwoman" also was nominated for worst scrnnn coupln for Berry with Pitlwr Stonn or eo-star Benjamin Bratt. 
"'Catwoman' is the cinmnatic equiva­IPnt of a clump in the cat-litter box," Hazzies founder John Wilson said. "Kind of a sad little thing laying there stinking up the place." 
Thn historical bomb "1\lflxander" was second with six Hazzin nomina­tions, including worst picture, worst aetor (Colin Farrell), worst actress (1\ngnlina Jolin) and worst director (Olivnr Stone). 
Tho otlwr worst-picture contenders wnre tlw family aetion comedy "Superhabies: Baby Geniuses 2," the holiday dnhade "Surviving Christmas" and the cross-dressing comedy "White Chicks." 
l'residnnt Bush and some of his advisers recnived worst-acting nomi­nations for their appearances in news and archival footage in Michael Moore's "Fahrenheit 9/11," which assails Bush for his actions surround­ing the September 11 attacks. 
Bush was nominated for worst actor, while Secretary of State-designate Condoleczza Hicc got a nomination for worst supporting actress and Defense Secretary Donald Humsfeld for worst supporting actor. 
Wilson said that while "Pahrenheit 9/11" was a piece of anti-Bush propa­ganda, the president and his associ­ates earned their Hazzie nominations on their own. 
"It wasn't Mr. Moore's editing," Wilson said. "It's the raw footage of these people just making fools of themselves." 
Just a few seconds of screen time in "Fahnmheit 9/11" brought a nomina­tion as worst supporting actress for Britney Spears, who sits for a moment blank-faced and chewing gum in the film before saying she thinks people should support the president in all decisions he makes. 
Along with Bush and rarrcll, worst­actor nominees were Ben Affleck for "Jersey Girl" and "Surviving Christmas"; Vin Diesel for "The Chronicles of' Hiddick;" and Ben Stiller for "/\long Came Polly," "Anchorman: The Legend of Hon Burgundy," "Dodgeball: 1\ True Underdog Story," "Envy" and "Starsky & Hutch." 
Joining Berry and Jolie as worst­actress contenders were llilary Duff for "A Cinderella Story" and "Haise Your Voice," and two pairs of siblings: Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen for "New York Minute" and Shawn and Marlon 
J) VHS or BETA· Night on Fire 4) Palomar .. Palomar Ill: R~v~nge;: 

Wayans, who play federal agents in drag in "White Chicks." 
The Olsen twins and the Wayans brothers also had nominations as worst screen couples. 
Arnold Schwarzeneggcr received a nomination for worst supporting actor for "Around the World in 80 Days," for which he did a cameo before becoming California's governor. Besides him, Humsfeld and Wilson, the other sup­porting nominees were Val Kilmer for "Alexander" and Jon Voight for "Superbabins." 

Besides Bien, Spnars and Stone, Carmen Elek tra of "Starsky & llutch" and Jnnnifer Lopez of "Jersey Girl" also were nominated for worst sup­porting aetress. 
Selected by about 500 members of the Golden Haspberry Foundation. Razzie nominations were released a day before the Academy Awards nomi­nations como out. Hazzie winners will be announced February 26, a day before the Oscars. 
1bf Poloma''t~ Eil 15) Elliot Smith . From a Basement on the Hill 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 27, 2005 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Maryland pulls off upset at No.2 Duke, 75-66 
Louisville crushes Marquette; Boston College edges Providence; Northwestern upends Iowa with buzzer beater 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. -Maryland eoach Gary Williams brought in a few experts before facing sec­ond-ranked Duke. 
Former stars Steve Blake, Juan Dixon and Laron Profit visited practice this week, giv­ing the eurrent Terrapins a few lessons. They talked about hav­ing fun, about believing in themselves and about giving a full effort against the undefeat­ed Blue Devils. 
"That was huge," forward Nik Caner-Medley said. "That was the hardest we practiced all year." 
Caner-Medley and his team­mates carried that message to the game, giving Maryland an improbable upset. 
The junior had 25 points before leaving with an ankle injury, and Travis Garrison and Ekene lbekwe finished off the Blue Devils at the free-throw line in a 75-66 victory Wednesday night. 
The Terrapins (12-5, 3-3 Atlantic Coast Conference) lost three of their previous five games, all by at least 15 points. But they hung with Duke (15-1, 5-l) throughout and allowed only two points in the final 3 1/2 minutes. 
"I just thought they played a little bit harder than we did," Blue Devils coach Mike Krzyzewski said. "We didn't have the attitude that we've had the entire year. This team has to have an edge all the time." 
lbekwe gave Maryland the lead for good with a tough layup in traffic off an inbounds play, set up during a timeout by Williams. That made it 66-64 with 1:23 left, and the Blue Devils had no answer. 
No. 12 Louisville 99, Marquette 52 
Larry O'Bannon fought off a grin as he left the floor late in Louisville's victory over Marquette. 
The senior guard hit six 3­pointers and scored 30 points, both career highs, and punctu­ated the best game of his career with a steal and breakaway dunk. 
Coach Rick Pitino took him out seconds later, prompting chants of "Lar-ree! Lar-ree!" from the capacity crowd. 
"You can't beat that-20,000 people yelling for you. You can't even dream of that," O'Bannon said. "I didn't want to crack a smile, but I was sunshine on the inside." 
The soft-spoken O'Bannon 
CLASSIFIEDS 
also had five rebounds and seven assists for the Cardinals (17-3, 5-l Conference USA), who handed Marquette its most lopsided loss ever. 
"Larry had a special night," Pitino said. ''I'm really pleased for him. It's wonderful to see· a person like him have a game like this. He exemplifies every­thing we're trying to build with our program." 
Francisco Garcia added 14 points for the Cardinals, who snapped a three-game home losing streak to Marquette and won for the 11th time in 12 games. Since a 60-58 loss to Kentucky on Dec. 18, the Cardinals have won 11 home games by an average of 28 points. 
Pitino, who coached Kentucky from 1989-97, jokingly asked reporters to not give the Cardinals too mueh publicity. 
"We'd rather you write about Kentucky and leave us alone," Pitino said. "Let us stay second fiddle because we're not good when we think we're good." 
Todd Townsend had 17 points, and Marcus Jackson grabbed 12 rebounds for the Golden Eagles (14-5, 2-4), whose previ­ous worst defeat was a 57-12 loss to Creighton in 1940. 
No. 8 Boston College 78, Providence 75 
The Boston College Eagles believe something special is happening this season, and it's not luck, either. 
Jared Dudley scored 21 points and hit a 3-pointer with 1:20 left to give Boston College the lead, and the No. 8 Eagles remained undefeated with a victory over Providence. 
Boston College (17 -0, 6-0 Big East) is off to its best start in school history in the regular season and conference play. 
"It's just something about us," said Craig Smith, who also scored 21 points. "We just have a feeling we can't lose right now. We always go into each game feeling we should win." 
Boston College and No. 1 Illinois are the only undefeated teams left in Division I. No. 2 Duke lost for the first time Wednesday night, falling 75-66 to Maryland. 
Donnie McGrath led Providence (9-9, 0-5) with 17 points, matching his season high, and made 5 3-pointers. Leading scorer Ryan Gomes was held to 13 points on 5-for-14 shooting. Providence has lost five straight. 
A 3-pointer by· McGrath gave the Friars a 75-71 lead with 3:19 left in the game. BC's Jermaine Watson then hit a floater from the baseline to draw the Eagles within two. The teams traded turnovers before Dudley hit his 3-pointer from the left wing to put BC in front. 
"He's exploded this year," Smith said of Dudley, who also led the Eagles with 12 rebounds and added six assists. "He should be a name people should be talking about. That shot shows how much poise he has, and he's willing to take big shots." 
Providence's Dwight Brewington missed a 3-pointer with less than a minute left, but Gomes grabbed the rebound. He whirled in the lane, but got caught in the air with two defenders on him and turned the ball over. 
Watson made one free throw to give BC a 77-75 lead, but missed the second to give Providence a chance with 31 seconds left. DeSean White missed a jumper with 10 sec­onds remaining, and Dudley hit a free throw 2 seconds later to give Boston College a three­point lead. 
White said he was looking for Gomes from the moment he touched the ball. 
"By the time I looked down [in the lane], there was a double [team] on him, and I had to do something," said White, who finished with eight points. "So, I shot. I make that nine out of ten Northwestern players and Pierre Pierce's jumper gave the times." fans raced to the floor to mob Haw keyes a five-point cushion 
After Dudley's free throw, Jenkins following the dramatic before Vukusic had two free Boston College used a foul to victory that saw the Wildcats throws and a layup to make it take some time off the clock, rally from 12 down with 3:27 to 73-72. and McGrath's 3-pointer was off go in regulation. the mark as time expired. Vedran Vukusic, who was No. 14 Alabama 60, Auburn 
"Our kids fought hard, but I doubtful to start because of a 55 thought BC did a better job in sore shoulder, scored a career­Alabama's point guard was in the last couple of minutes, tak­high 32 points for foul trouble, its lead was dwin­ing better shots while our kids Northwestern, including 13 in dling and Auburn had convert­took some questionable shots," the final 2 minutes of regulation ed two quick turnovers into Providence coach Tim Welsh to help the Wildcats snap a dunks. said. four-game losing streak. Then, the 14th-ranked 
"The last one we wanted to Crimson Tide managed to break Northwestern 75, No. 23 Iowa get two, but it worked out well," out of an offensive funk in time 74,01 Northwestern coach Bill to escape with a 60-55 victory 
Walk-on Michael Jenkins Carmody said. "You have to be Wednesday night. found himself wide open in the lucky. That shot doesn't have to "If anything wakes us up, that corner, took the pass and let fly go down and some of their good would do it," said Earnest with a high-arching shot. free throw shooters missed. We Shelton, who led Alabama with 
Then, like everyone else in were fortunate." 22 points. "We had to find a Welsh-Ryan Arena, he watched Greg Brunner had a career­way to get it done. We needed as the ball bounced on the rim high 28 points for Iowa (14-5, 2-baskets, we needed stops." twice and fell through just 4) in the Hawkeyes' second The Crimson Tide (16-3, 5-l before the buzzer, giving crushing defeat in three games. Southeastern Conference) got Northwestern a stunning 75-74 Six days ago, they lost in over­just enough of both after watch­overtime victory over No. 23 time to top-ranked Illinois. ing a 15-point lead dwindle to Iowa on Wednesday night And on Wednesday night, they one with some sloppy play. But 
"I saw it him the rim and I fig­missed 11 of 26 free throws in Chuck Davis hit two free throws 
ured I'd get a shooter's roll the second half and overtime. and drove for a basket to help from the beginning," Jenkins Jeff Horner's 3-pointer put secure Alabama's fourth said. "The point is, it went in." Iowa up 71-68 in overtime and straight win over its archrival. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3"f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Professor needs part-time babysit­ 2-6 bedroom homes for 05-06  COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR  Spring Break 2005 with STS,  Cheapest 2005 Spring Break $499  
LosT & FouND  ter for three year old boy, please callt-3770.  Walking distance from ND. MMMRentals.com 532-1408  LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year-Available June 1 ,2005  America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call  all-inclusive, all drinks, all food, all parties! www.needspringbreak.com  
2 Bedrooms·2 Baths,  for group discounts.  1·866-668-9037.  
LOST: CAR KEYS w/Caesar s  FoR SALE  New 4-bdnn,3-bath home.Avail 8/05. Cathedral ceiling, fireplace,  Washer/Dryer, Security System.  Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849  I was born a ramblin' man ...  
keyring near JACC Monday mom- deluxe kitchen, skylights, 2-car  Fully Furnished (574)233-7373 or  www.ststravel.com  
ing. Reward offered. Call 507-304­ Pre-owned Dell computers. $100­ garage, family room, 10x20 deck.  Salvaty@ earthlink.net  Believeable  
0446.  250. 574-229·3333.  Safe area.  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5  
Call574-232-4527 or 269-683­ Grad student renting !urn basement  Days $299!  Galapagos  
One bedroom condo near UND.  5038.  studio apt all uti I +cable TV & inter- Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties!  
I  WANTED  Appliances $72,000 280-8160 Kim Kollar  COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS  net incl. 1 mile to ND $425/month 574-339-0582  Panama City, Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco,  Fly Eagles Fly, on the road to victo­ry. Fight Eagles Fight, score a  
AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL  Nassau $499!  touchdown 1-2-3. Hit 'em low, hit  
YEAR.TWO BEDROOM, TWO  Award Winning Company!  'em high, and watch our Eagles fly.  
BOSOX FANS check out newyorkchokees.net  FoR RENT  BATHS. HURRY 235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL.  PERSONALS  SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678­6386  Fly Eagles Fly, on the road to victo­ry. E-A-G-L-E-S. EAGLES!  


Thursday, January 27, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
Jackson rejoins team after 30-game suspension 
Associawd Press 25, a penalty that was reduced what they see on TV," he said. 
by an arbitrator to 15. "It just feels like a lot of pres­
BOSTON -Stnplwn .Jaekson "I think we've learned from it, sure oil' my shoulders." is still trying to control his nrno­and I think guys from both Jackson said he couldn't sleep tions. teams and everyoiHl else have Tuesday night because he was 
Only this timn, tho mnotion is learnnd from it," Pacnrs guard thinking about returning to the joy. Michael Curry said. "Hopefully, court. lin stayed up late watch­
"Today is a great day for me," that never oecurs again. But ing sports highlights on telnvi­tlw Indiana l'<u~nrs forward said we've put closure on it, and sion, like he usually does. Worhwsday night boforn return­now it's a matter of getting guys "But now I'm watching, ing from a :m-ganw suspension baek on the eourt and finding a know!.ng l'_m going to the to play tlw Boston Celties. "This rhythm to our game." game, he said. is up thnro with my c~hampi­Pacers eoach Hick Carlisle The Pacers remain one game onship." said beforn Wednesday night's above .500, but they have lost 
.Jackson, who won an NBA game that he would monitor four of their last 10 games and titln with San Antonio in 200:~. Jaekson early on to make sure are 13-17 since the light. has not played since a Nov. 19 he wasn't windnd. Jaeksoi1 was "We've hung on, but wP.'ve brawl in Auburn Hills. Mich., in the starting lineup against blown si>mn opportunities," that was o1w of tho most violent tho Collies. Carlisle said. "We've donP. OK, lights nvnr lwtwnen players and "It. has bonn a long time for but we oould have done better." 
U.S. sports fans. Jackson wont him. I'm oxdtnd l'or him to have Indiana plays Detroit on to tlw aid of tnammatn Hon the opportunity to rejoin us," Thursday night in Indianapolis, Artost, who wont into the Carlisle said. "On the other and gP.tting Jackson back docs-• stands to fight with l>ntroit fans hand, I know it's going to be n't end the problems. al"tor gotting hit in tho faen with kind of emotional for him. I Jonathan Bonder, who a cup. know that whnn you go a long already made one trip to the 
But instoad of pulling Artest pnriod ol' time without playing, injured list with a sore right out of tlw nwll~o. Jackson went tlwre can be an adjustment knee, was to miss his second in swinging wildly. period." consecutivn game and was 
Commissicuwr David Stern Jackson said he's learned his doubtful for the Pistons game. sus1wmlnd Artnst for tho rost of lesson. Jamaal Tinsloy is out with "a tho snason, Jaekson for 30 "I have to show people thnre's pretty signilieant ease of sinus gamos and .Jnrmainn O'Nnal for more to Stephen Jaekson than nu. " 
Jallles leaves gallle, returns to lift Cavaliers to victory 
Memphis Grizzlies. eoming up." shoot," Nash said with a shrug. between thrno playnrs all soason
Suns sneak by Bucks 
"I had to lead my team," Instead, a determined James, Of course, it all starts with CIUllO baek to Haul Lopoz, who with help franz Nash Jamos said. "My 80 pereent can who had to be helped off the Nash, who has had just as big did ovcrything he could 
lwlp us win. I can't be scared. lloor by teammates, came back an impaet on his new team as Wednesday night to mako suro 
I've got to be a soldier out and made sure the first-place Shaquille O'Neal has had in he hangs onto it in a win over
Associa1ed Press 
thorn." Cavaliers didn't blow a lead Miami. the Seattle SupnrSonics. 
CLEVELAND -None of his James scored 27 points with a while improving to an Eastern Behind Nash, the Suns (34-1 0) Lopez had a carenr-high 11 spinning shots, no-look passes eareer-high 15 assists and nine Conference-best 15-4 at home are on pace to become just the assists and matehed his best or windmill dunks could top rebounds, ignoring the pain and 25-16 overall. 1Oth team in NBA history to go scoring total with 20 points. what LoBron James did by limp­while making soveral big plays "It gets you pumped as a play­from 50-plus losses one year to "We don't have to think about ing back onto the eourt. in the game's erueial moments. er," Cavs guard Jeff Mcinnis said 50-plus wins the next. who scored more points. We 
With a dramatic return for the When James came down on of James' return. "I knew he "Hight now, I'd say he's the won the game and that's what linal 4:53 aftor spraining his left the foot of Dahntay Jones and was eoming back. He was mad." MVP of the NBA," Bucks coaeh matters," said Lopez, who was anklo, .Jamos inspired and rolled his ankle with 9:33 left, Phoenix 121, Milwaukee 115 Terry Porter said. "The way he's making his sixth start of the sparked his teammates down CavaliP.rs coaeh Paul Silas Steve Nash dishes out the changed that team around'? I season. "We have a lot of games tlw stretch as the Clevoland feared the worst. compliments just as eloquently don't know if you could bring where people scored a lot of Cavaliers hold on fi1r a 114-111 "What did I see?" Silas said. "I as he does the basketball. another point guard in the points and we lost." win Wodnosday night over tho saw a whole buneh of losses "A lot of guys played well league and put him on that team Lopez and lloward Eislcy ar.e 


30 Summer Programs 
All Over the World! 
···········································~·········· 
• 
SU Division of International Programs Abroad
A 106 Walnut Place, Syracuse, NY J3244 DlPAsum@syr.edu • http://summerabroad.syr.edu (800) 2S 1·9674 

tonight," Nash said after scoring and assume they'd have the Utah's only two aetive point 
21 points and amassing 17 same type of success they've guards, loss than a week al"ter 
assists in leading the Phoenix had. I think it would be very dif­having four on the roster. Carlos 
Suns to a 121-115 win over ficult." Arroyo, tho startor last season, 
Milwaukee on Wednesday night. Utah 109, Seattle 100 was traded to Detroit. last. wonk L<~d by Nash, the Suns had 29 The Utah Jazz may have and Keith McLeod was placed 
assists on 43 baskets. found a point guard they'll stiek on the injurnd list Wodnesday "Oh, my teammates are per­with. beeauso of a strai1wd hamstring. 
feet players. They can finish, The job that has bounced Wizards 117, Slxers 107 Gilbert An~nas eamn to tlw arena hoping for anothnr nwm­orablo dunl with Allnn lvnrson. When Iverson didn't suit up. Anmas nnc~dnd most of tlw gamn to recovor from tlw let­down. Iverson's rc>plaePnHmt.. WilliP Groen, scornd a carcHH"-high :~2 points and kept the gamo dose for 3 1/2 quari.Ns Wednosday night bnforn Arc~nas and l.lw Washington Wizards dosnd strong to takn a victory ovnr tho Philadnlphia 7hnrs. ''I'm kind of lik<~. 'Aw, Al's not lwrn.' As a profossional you know you'vo got to gnt ovnr that," Anmas said. "I was still hyped, but Willie Gmnn? OK, lw donsn't rc~ally do anything. "But hn took ovcw Al's spot, and in tho sncond half it was liko, 'OK, AI is out thorn."' Arnnas l"inishnd with :n points, six rc~bounds and a sna­son-high ninn assists for tho Wizards, who won their fourth straight and -exadly halfway through the snason -remain on paee for their bnst rncord in 26 years. Washington has won eight in a row at homo and 1 I of 13 overall sinee New Year's Day. 
page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, January 27, 2005 
SuPER BowL XXXIX 
Eagles and Patriots present tight matchups 
Key position battles exist between Super Bowl opponents 
Associated Press 
I low the New England Patriots (16-2) and the Philadelphia Eagles (15-3) match up in the Super Bowl: When the Patriots have the ball: 
Unlike in their previous two Super Bowl wins this decade, the Patriots have a stud running back, Corey Dillon. Although the Eagles easily handled Atlanta's top-ranked rushing attack in the NFC title game, they'll be hard­pressed to hold Dillon in check because of what quarterback Tom Brady can do as a comple­ment. 
Not that Brady, the MVP of the last two Super Bowls and 8-0 in the postseason, can be consid­ered anything but a star. But New England will seek to mini­mize Philadelphia's superb sec­ondary by regularly shoving Dillon at the defense. If Dillon forces All-Pro safety Brian Dawkins and the other defensive backs to crowd the line, then Brady will turn to the deepest receiving corps in the league: Troy Brown, Deion Branch, David Givens, David Patten and speedster Bethel Johnson. 
As they proved against Pittsburgh for the AFC champi­onship, the Pats can dismantle even the best defense·s. Philadelphia needs the kind of brilliant performance from mid-die linebacker Jeremiah Trotter that it got the last two weeks, plus a steady pass rush. Jevon Kearse has been dominant in spurts and must be more consis­tent. Hollis Thomas, Derrick Burgess and Corey Simon all have taken turns being the main guy up front. 
Philly had 47 sacks in the reg­ular season, but the Patriots yielded only 26. If there is no pressure on Brady, thanks to that unheralded offensive line, New England should score plen­ty of points. When the Eagles have the ball: 
Unless All-Pro wide receiver Terrell Owens makes a miracu­lous recovery from his ankle and leg injuries, his role in the game will be mostly cheerleacl­ing. That hasn't put a crimp in Philadelphia's offense so far in the playoffs -but they haven't played the Patriots yet. 
Donovan McNabb has matured into one of the league's best quarterbacks and leaders. He hurt the Eagles with some bad decisions in big games in the past, but not this season. MeNabb has been dynamic in every facet. 
Now, though, he faces the mysteries of the New England defense, where anyone can pop up anywhere at any time. Just ask Peyton Manning and Ben Roethlisberger. 
While All-Pro defensive tackle Richard Seymour might not be a factor, he's hardly been missed. Linebackers Tedy Bruschi, Ted Johnson, Mike Vrabel and Rosevelt Colvin, linemen Willie McGinest and Ty Warren, and 

AP Philadelphia Eagles linebacker Jeremiah Trotter celebrates a stop during a playoff victory over the Minnesota Vikings. 

G-reat Food! G-reat Futt! 
~t Sports &ar itt South &ettd 2046 South &ettd Ave ~ Across frotM Martitts Plaza 
272~1766 
fUES: COLLE~£ NI~HT ~ UJ 6-SPECIALS (STARTIN~ AT ~l.OOJ Wed: Live fRIVIA Night ~ Jrittg your teatMs ~ Prizes fHURS: UJ ~ PettttY Night ~ 1~ Specials startittg at 
9:00PM d -h l"d I D 
Must be 21 or ol er Wit ava 1 • • 
safeties Rodney Harrison and Eugene Wilson lead the big-play defense that has more looks than even a veteran like McNabb can imagine. 
Unlike against NFC opponents, running back Brian Westbrook will not be a matchup problem as a receiver. He should, howev­er, find some running room behind offensive tackle Tra Thomas and center Hank Fraley. 
Philadelphia's ordinary group of supporting receivers for T.O. has played well in the postsea­son, particularly Freddie Mitchell and the emerging Greg Lewis, a deep threat. The loss of TE Chad Lewis will hurt, mean­ing second-year player L.J. Smith must step in. Special teams: 
The biggest edge is at place­kicker, but only because Adam Vinatieri has made so many pressure-packed kicks, includ­ing two to win Super Bowls. His range is not much longer than David Akers for Philadelphia, but All-Pro Vinatieri simply doesn't miss important kicks. 
New England's Josh Miller and Philly's Dirk Johnson (8) are middle-of-the-road punters. 
The Eagles did not score on a punt runback, nor did they allow a punt return TD. 
Their coverage teams are excellent and held Atlanta's. dangerous Allen Rossum in check in the conference champi­onship game. New England has had some problems with punt coverage. 
Bethel Johnson had the Patriots' only kickoff return for a score; the Eagles had none. Intangibles: 
Philadelphia has been trying oh so hard to get here. Now that the Eagles are in the Super Bowl, will they be satisfied with the trip, or will they be loose and confident and play their best football? 


Andy Reid has turned around this franchise and the Eagles have been the NFC's best in this decade -until late January, or course. They are over that hump because Reid never pan­icked, never wavered from his approach. Players appreciate and respond to that. 
An Eagles victory would be their first in a Super Bowl and Philly's first NFL title since 1960. New England has a slight­ly different resume. 
The Patriots seek their third Super Bowl championship in four years, something only 
Dallas of the early 1990s man­
aged. Such a feat would meas­
ure up with the greatest in 
sports because of the difficulty 
of keeping a roster together in 
the current NFL. 

Bill Belichick is a mastermind, 
and even with a string of 
injuries to his defense, he's 
never backed off. The subs sim­
ply come in and play well, as he 
expects. 

Belichick is losing offensive 
coordinator Charlie Weis to 
Notre Dame and probably will 
see defensive coordinator 
Romeo Crennel get the head 
coaching job in Cleveland, 
where Belichick himself once 
was head man. Will the Patriots _give them a championship send­
off? 

IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT 
TELEVISION DOCUMENTARY SERIES ON PRIESTLY VOCATIONS 
The Wolper Organization (winner of 2 Oscars, 50 Emmys, 5 Peabodys, 7 Golden Globes) is producing a thirteen-part television documentary series on the challenging choices a young man faces in becoming a Catholic priest. 
If you are seriously trying to decide whether to become a priest -and you are willing to share this important decision-making process in a television documentary -please contact Neal Konstantini immediately at: 
nealkosta@hotmail.com 818.667.4500 
Those selected to participate in this series will receive a fee/donation for sharing their vocational journey. 

Thursday, January 27, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 





Owens wants to return despite doctor's orders 
Eagles trainer says receiver plans to play in Super Bowl 
Associa1cd Press 
1'1111./\1>1·:1.1'111/\ -Tnrroll Ownns is trnating his doctor's ordnrs thl' way lw dnals with JH'sky corrwrhaeks: shrugging thmn oil" and l"orging ahead. 
l'hiladnlphia Eaglns lwad train­er Hick Burkholdnr said Wnd nnsday that Ownns startPd jogging and plans to continue rehabbing his injun\d ankln in an altPtnpl. to play in the Supnr Bowl. 
I>r. Mark Myerson, the surgeon who op<H"atnd on tlw /\11-Pro rnrniVI\1" in Dnenmhnr. said Tunsday hn would not doar Ownns to suit up against tho Nnw I·:ngland l'atrioL-; on Fnb. (~, 
"WP understand l>r. Myerson's point ol" vinw. It's just that our risk-mward is dill"nrnnt than his risk-rnward," Burkholder said. "lin has great risk in dnaring TnrrPII to play and no reward. We think thnrn's some risk and we think thnrn's grnat rnward, so right now wn'rn going to progrnss with his rnhab." 
The final decision on Owens' status will come down to the player, eoaeh /\ndy Heid and tho lnam's nwdil:al stall". 
"Wn'rn nevor going to put Tnrrnll at risk," Hnid said. Ownns was at the Eagles' prac-

AP 

Eagles wide receiver Terrell Owens said he is trying to return to the field in time to play In Super Bowl XXXIX against the New England Patriots. 
tice facility for rehab work that field Sunday, regardless of winds up re-injuring the ankle. Wndnesday, but the team said he what anybody says." Owens was told aftnr surgery wouldn't be made available to Myerson inserted two screws in that he had only an outside reporters until next week's Owens' right ankle and a plate on chance of returning for the Super mandatory media day at the the outside of the ankle three Bowl, which was 6 1/2 weeks Super Bowl. days after he was injured against away at the time. But he 
On Monday, before hearing Dallas on Dec. 19. By not clearing rehabbed vigorously, hoping to Myerson's bad news, Owens said: Owens to play, Myerson should be help Philadelphia win its first "Spiritually I've been healed and absolved of any blame if Owens NFL championship since 1960. I bnlieve that I'll be out there on goes against his wishes and After a checkup Tuesday in Baltimore, Myerson said that while lw's plnas1\d with Owons' recuporation, tho operation requires a recovery period of night to l 0 wonks. Myorson addnd that any altl\lllpl to ar.cnl­erato tho rehabilitation procnss posns tim same risk fill· injury. 
Burkholder said Ownns worknd 
out  on  a  trnadmill whnn  lw  
rnturnnd  to  Philadelphia  on  
Tunsday.  

"Wo will continuo to snP whether lw can jog and son how he dons day in and day out, son if lw can change dirnction," Burkholdnr said. 
"If hn passes all those tosts, thnn wn'll start talking about practiCI\ time. Hight now, llw game isn't <won in our vision right now. If ho has any sntb;u~ks in his rnhab, then tho whole idna of playing in tho Super Bowl is probably oil"." 
In his first soason with tho Eagles al"tnr night ynars in San Francisco, Owens led Philadelphia with 77 catdws for 1,200 yards and 14 TDs. 
Quarterback Donovan McNabb and other Eagles have said they don 'l need Owens to boat the defending champion Patriots, who arn 7 -point favoritns. 
"If T.O. plays, it's an added bonus," McNabb said. "If he doesn't, it's not going to stop any­thing we're doing. You have to have it in the back of your mind about your futurn, so that's a tough call. That's something as a player you have to think about." 

Global Geo 
oli I• 
A View from the Top (and the Inside) 
~ '\J'X ~ ' ' ..., ' .;.;""':$:,,;_",~':>,:;:t:: (,, ;:;." '1'f: {~
Gee-strategic issues and events in Europe,· R.:u'ssia· and tne l¥1iadle East 


n,~~k ~~r, , '~, , 
J·ohn Mroz· 
Pre.si.dent and· ·~ounder 
·;...•. 

EastW·est rn:sti:tute 
Since 1980, the EastWest lnstit·u~e has worked to bridge divides along the fault lines of world geopolitics. Under its auspices, world leaders come together to explore solutions to pressing security, economic and political challenges. Our speaker is a tireless promoter of world peace, and an individual with a profound inside knowledge of the thinking of major world figures. 
Mr. Mroz has served as an advisor to more than twenty governments including the US, Germany. Poland and Russia. as well as the Commission of the European Union. NATO, the Council of Europe and the G-8. He writes regularly in the interna­tional press on global change and interna­tional security as well as European, Rus­sian, Eurasian and Middle Eastern affairs. 

MONDAY, .JANUARY 31, 2005 


!OOPM Hesburgh Center for lnterna . . al/Stu4ies
''\o. ­· Auditorium 

For more information, visit: www.ewi.info 


Write Sports. Call1-4543. 



Douglas helps Eagles defense and chetnistry 
Associated Press 
PIIILADELPIIIA Hugh Douglas was holding a dance party in the Philadelphia Eagles' training room, noticed Jeffrey Lurie standing by and invited the team owner to bust a move. 
Even the man who signs the players' cheeks isn't immune from Douglas' shenanigans. 
Douglas returned to Philadelphia last summer to bol­ster the pass rush and provide depth on the defensive line. His biggest contribution for the NFC champions has been keeping everyone loose in the locknr room with his playful personality. 
"lie's a big factor in tlwre," Eagles coach Andy Heid ~aid of the team'.s top prankster and comedian. "Everyb11rly respects the heck out of him, just for th1~ great player he is and has been. He's got that personality that is contagious and it kind of touches everybody in that locker room and if there's any anxiety, he loosens it up right away. lie eases the storm." 
A few hours after Lurie provnd he has no rhythm, Douglas walked off the licld with tears of joy streaming down his face. Tho Eagles had defeated the Atlanta Falcons 27-10 to win the NPC title, and Douglas was going baek to Jacksonville to play against the New England Patriots in the Super Bowl. 
A three-time Pro Bowl dnfen­sive end with the Eagles from 2000-02, Douglas returnnd to Philadelphia after he was released by the Jaguars li>llowing a difl1c.ult snason in 2003. l!is role is different now -he plays fewer downs and spends morn time loading cheers on the side­lines. 
"I knnw coming baek would be a sacrilkn, not playing as mud1," said Douglas, who had throe sacks and 10 hurries this snason. "I always lillt when I came back that this was a special tnam. If this is what I had to sacrifice in order to got to the ultimate goal. sometirnns you havn to makn sac­rifices. 
"To como in knowing that you'ro still capable of startin!{ and sit down, that was prntty big. I just said if that's what it takPs lilr me to gnt to whore I want to bn, then that's what I havn to do." 
While tho addition of Douglas helped team ehPmistry, tho acquisitions of dofnnsivn end Jevon Knarse and middle linn­backer Jermniah Trotter signifi­cantly improved Philadelphia's dnfonsn. 
The Eagles gave up tho ((lwnst points (260) in tho NFC. and lied with New England for tho sne­ond-fewost alloWild in the NFI.. Before the rnserves gave up :~s points in a meaningless regular­season linale against Cincinnati, Philadelphia had tlw stingiest delimse in the league. 
In the playolf.'i, Kearse, Trotter and Co. shut down Daunte Culpepper, Handy Moss and tlw rest of the Minnesota Vikings, limiting the NFC's sm:ond-highest scoring ollimse to just 13 points in a second-round win. 
They worn even bntter against Michael Vick and the Atlanta Falcons, holding t.hn Jnagun's bnst rushing attack to <J<J yards on the ground and 202 total yards on ommse. 
-~ -­
MLB 


Mientkiewicz traded from Red Sox to Mets 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK Doug 
Mientkiewicz is bringing his good 
glove to the Nnw York Mets. The 
ball is anothor story. 

The Mets acquired the former 
Gold Glove first baseman from 
the Boston Hed Sox on 
Wednesday for minor loague first 
basmnan Ian Bladergronn. 

New York obtained 
Mientkiewiez one day after 
Carlos Delgado acenpted the 
Florida Marlins' $5.2 million, 
four-year oiTPr, spurning a simi­
lar proposal from New York. 

Tlw 30-year-old Mientkiewiez 
won the 2001 AL Gold Glove with 
Minnesota and caught the final 
out of Boston's World Series 
sweep of St. Louis last October, 
the first Series title for the Red 
Sox since 1918. Ile kept the ball, 
whieh the Heel Sox want back. 

"The ball issue was rHwer a 
faetor in this trade or in this 
negotiating process. We had a 
•baseball decision to make," Red Sox general manager Theo Epstein said. "I know that others in the organization were talking to Doug and either have reached a satisfactory resolution or are very, very close to doing so." 
Mets general manager Omar Minaya didn't take a position on the issue. 
''When I talk to him, we maybe have to negotiate the ball part, too," Minaya said, jokingly. 
With the Heel Sox, Mientkiewicz w<i.s used in the pnstseason as late-inni-ng mplacement for Kevin Millar, thP extrovertPd first baseman whom Epstein called "an integral part <11" our clubhouse ehPmistry." 
"Both guys are everyday, win­ning first basemen in my mind," Epstein said. "I wish you could eombine them. But in the end, I think to be fair to both guys it was the right thing to do to put them in a position where they could get a chance to play every day." 
New York thinks Mientkiewicz will help its young inlield, which ineludes third baseman David Wright, shortstop Jose Heyes and second baseman Kaz Matsui. 
"It just makes our defense that much better," Minaya said. 
Mientkiewicz came up to the major leagues with Minnesota in 1998 and was dealt to the Heel Sox last July 31. A career .272 
hitter, he slumped to a combined .238 with six homers and 35 RBis last year for the Twins and Red Sox. 
"lie really didn't play every day, and that's a possibility why he didn't produce," Minaya said. 
Mientkiewicz, who probably will be backed up by Andres Galarraga, agreed last February to a $7 million, two-year contract that calls for a $3.75 million salary this year. Thn deal includes a $4 million team option for 2006 with a $450,000 buy­out. 
As part of the trade, the Hed Sox agreed to pay the buyout if the Mets decline the option. 
With Delgado headed to Florida, Minaya sounded uncer­tain how hard to push to sign free-agent outrielder Magglio Ordonez, coming off two knee operations. 
"We have talked about him. There's no doubt he's a groat hit­ter," Minaya said. "Will we explore that? We'll probably just explore it." 
New York's projected starting outfield has Carlos Beltran in center, flanked by Cliff Floyd in left and Mike Cameron in right. 


NHL 

Labor talks conclude with promise of another meeting 
Few details revealed concernzng success ofleague discussions 
Associated Press · 

There is no secret that time is running out to save the hockey season. How the NHL and the players' association are working to prevent that has become a very big mystery. 
Representatives from both sides met for about 5 1/2 hours in small groups for the third time in a week on Wednesday. All that is known about the meeting is that it took place somewhere in Toronto. The location was kept secret, and neither side would reveal what was discussed or if any progress was made. 
The only news that came out was that more talks will be held soon. 
"We will meet again this week," NHL chief legal officer Bill Daly said. "We have no fur­ther comment at this time." 
No time or place for the next meeting was set up by Wednesday night, but the sides were leaning to a New York ses­sion on either Thursday or Friday. 
Daly told The Associated Press on Tuesday that discussions were at a critical stage and that only days remained to reach a deal that would.save the season. The fact that more talks have been set up provided at least a glimmer of hope that the NHL won't become the first North American sports league to lose an entire season to a labor dis­pute. 
The lockout reached its 133rd day Wednesday and has wiped out 713 of the 1,230 regular-sea­son games, plus the 2005 All­Star game. 
The small-group format began last week with the hope that the sides could fmd common ground that would lead to a new collec­tive bargaining agreement. All three sessions were held without commissioner Gary Bettman and union chief Bob Goodenow. 
During a two-day meeting last week in Chicago and Toronto, the sides tried to get together in secrecy but were unsuccessful. Both parties believe they will have a better chance of getting something accomplished if they can talk out of the public eye. 
"After meeting today, we have agreed to continue discussions and will not be making any fur­ther comment at this time," play­ers' association senior director Ted Saskin said. 
Although no details were immediately available, neither side planned to make a new pro­posal on Wednesday because the participants wanted to generate ideas through an open dialogue instead of working on a formal proposal. 
"I think the setup of these meetings is what's important in terms of the small-group dynam­ic, the open discussion and dia­logue," Daly told the AP on Tuesday night. "It's less formal or structured than the meetings we've had in the past, and I think that's helpful to the process." 
But time is running short to make a deal and save the sea­son. 
"We're in a critical stage, and that means we're down to days," Daly said. "We'll try to move the process forward and try to get a resolution." 
It was Vancouver center Trevor linden who came up with the idea last week to talk with just six people in the room. Linden, the NHLPA president, invited Harley Hotchkiss -the chairman of the board of gover­nors. 
The structure was successful in producing discussion, but it did nothing to close the gap in the philosophical differences. 
The NHL still wants cost cer­tainty, a link between player costs and team revenues. The players' association wants a 
free-market system. The only change was the addi­
The same group that met last tion of New Jersey Devils general week gathered again: Linden, manager Lou Lamoriello, a Saskin and outside counsel John member of the NI-IL board of McCambridge as well as Daly, governors, who joined the league Hotchkiss -a part-owner of the side for the meeting. Calgary Flames -and outside No proposals have been made counsel Bob Batterman. since early December, when the players offered a 24 percent roll­back on existing contracts as part of a luxury-tax and rev­enue-sharing system. The NI-IL turned that down and made a counterproposal five days later that was rejected in a matter of hours. 

Experience an evening ofMuslim prayer and meditation as the third in a series exploring the beliefS andpractices ofthe worlds greatfaith traditions.­
" An Evening ofPrayer from Around the Worldn 
Sponsored by: Campus Ministry InternationalStudent Services andActivities Muslim Student Association Graduate Student Union 
page 18  The Observer+ SPORTS  Thursday, January 27, 2005  

~----~--­






OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, January 27, 2005 CoMrruo FROM Tnr: OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Page 19 



Women's Swimming & Diving CSCAA Top 25 
team  points  
1  Georgia  175  
2  Auburn  168  
3  Florida  159  
4  Arizona  156  
5  Texas  146  
6  SMU  141  
7  California  133  
8  Stanford  124  
9  Wisconsin  118  
10  Texas A&M  115  
11  UCLA  104  
12  Maryland  96  
13  Michigan  89  
14  Penn State  83  
15  North Carolina  74  
15  Virginia  74  
17  Arizona State  64  
18  Southern Cal  56  
19  Purdue  46  
20  Hawaii  45  
21  NOTRE OAME  28  
21  Florida State  28  
23  Northwestern  20  
24  Washington  8  
24  Indiana  8  

Men's Swimming & Diving CSCAA Top 25 
lc>anz  tlolf•s  
1  Stanford  200  
2  Florida  190  
3  Auburn  184  
4  California  170  
5  Arizona  164  
6  Southern Cal  163  
7  Minnesota  156  
8  Michigan  149  
9  Texas  136  
10  Virginia  127  
11  Kentucky  118  
12  Georgia  108  "  
13  Indiana  105  
14  Northwestern  96  
15  Tennessee  90  
16  Purdue  78  
17  Wisconsin  67  
18  Texas A&M  60  
19  North Carolina  53  
20  BYU  48  
21  NOTRE DAME  36  
22  Hawaii  34  
23  Florida State  25  
24  Ohio State  11  
24  Alabama  11  

MIAA Women's Basketball Standings 
I f'r1111 /1,1/A;\ ()(It'tall Albion 9·1 11·2 Hope 9·1 16·2 Calvin 8-2 14·3 Kalamazoo 4-5 9-9 SAINT MARY'S 4-6 9·10 Tri-State 4-6 6·12 Alma 2·7 7-8 Adrian 2·8 5-12 Olivet 2-8 7·11 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Michigan at Michigan State, 7 p.m., ESP.N Cincinnati at South Florida, 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA Pistons at Pacers, 7 p.m., TNT Kings at Spurs, 9:30 p.m., TNT 
TENNIS Australian Open, 2 p.m., ESPN2 
NFL 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA -Baltimore navons running baek .Jamal Lnwis was sen­tenced to !'our months in prison Wodnosday for using a enll phone to try to snt up a cocainn deal about 4 1/2 years ago. 
The penalty, worknd out with prosecutors in Octobnr, should allow Lewis to return to thn Havens well bnl'ore the start of tho 2005 season. At most, hn eould miss tho opnning or training eamp. 
lin also will spnnd two months in a hall'way housn and pnrl'orm 500 hours ol' l'ommunity snrvicn l'ollow­ing his prison tnrm. 
Lewis pleaded guilty to trying to sot up tho drug deal a few months al'tnr the Havnns ehose him No. 5 ovnrall in the 2000 NFL draft. No drugs evflr nxchanged hands. 
Prosecutors agrond to drop morn sorious drug conspiraey· and a.ttompted eoeaine possession ehargns. 
"I'm truly sorry for what I did," Lewis said to U.S. District .Judgn Orinda Evans. 
Explaining the short snn­tenco, tho judge said thn govPrnmPnt didn't havn a strong easo and not.Pd tho only witnnss against Lnwis 

IN BRIEF 
Cassell returns after missing
I 0 games with injury 
MINNEAPOLIS -Sam Cassell rnturned to the Minnesota Timborwolvos on Wednesday night after missing I 0 games dun to a strained right hamstring. 
Cassell, injurnd in a victory over l'hiladnlphia on Jan. 7, m1tered the Wolves' ganw against Atlanta to a standing ovation with 8:4 7 left in tho second quarter. lie quiekly hit a 12­footor before forcing a turnover on the llawks' ensuing possession. Cassell had fivn assists in his first eight minutes on the lloor. 
The Wolves are 5-5 without Cassnll in the lineup. 
Coach Flip Saunders missed Cassell's return beeause he was home with the llu. Saunders, in his 1Oth season with the Wolves, had nevnr missed a game due to illness while posting a 408-319 record. 
Assistant coach Handy Wittman, who compiled a 62-102 record coaching the Cleveland Cavaliers was an informant with a lengthy eriminal reeord. 
Evans said shn was also giving Lewis "eredit for stepping up to thn bar" and admitting his guilt. 
Tho football playnr has until Fob. 4 to surrnndnr to allow him timn to havo a cast rnmovnd from his right ankle, tho judgn said. Lnwis rneently had surgnry on tho foot. 
Evans said slw will rnc­ommnnd that Lowis snrvn his timn at a fodnral prison camp at Maxw1~ll Air Forcn Base in Montgornnry, Ala.. Tlw ~~om m unity con f'i nn­nwnt will lw sPrvPd at a halfway housn in Atlanta. 
If Lnwis t·nports at. !111~ 
latest possible datn and dons not gPt timn o!T for ­good behavior, Uw narlinsl lw would be rnlnasnd from tlw hall'way housn would lw Aug. 4. Tlw Bavnns' training eamp usually opnns sornntimn in latn .July, and tlw Nl.'l. snason starts in narly to mid­Snptnmhnr. 
Tho l!avons said t.hP toam would not lw r.om­rnnnl.ing on l.nwis's son­to tH~n. 
J)p fnnsn IawyP r l·:d (iarland said l.lw sPntPtH'P was !'air and allows !'or l.1~wis to rdurn t.o t.hP llavnns nnxl sPason. ".Jamal Lnwis has his lii'P and his carPPr hack." 
from 1999-200 I, took Saundnrs' 
~~~~er hif,!h school coach 
testifies helook payoffs 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. -A former high school eoach told a federal jury Wed nosday that he got offers of money, a job and free law sd1ool for his wife before he accepted a $150,000 payoff to steer his best player to sign with Alabama. 
Lynn Lang, the former head coach at Trezevant lligh School, testified for the sneond day at tho trial of Logan Young, a Memphis millionairo who is on trial on fnderal bribery and money laundering charges. 
Lang is awaiting senteneing on a guilty plea to raeketeering conspira­ey. lin said he took tho money to eon­vi nee defensive lineman AI bert Moans to sign with tho Crimson Tide in 2000. 
In testimony Tuesday in U.S. Distriet Court, Lang said that coaches at two other Southeastern Conference schools, Kentucky and Georgia, gave him money. lie also testil'ied that TentWSSIH', Mississippi, Michigan State and Arkansas o!TerPd motwy for Means but twver paid. 

Waldorf, four others lead 
Bob Hope Classic _ 
LA {)UINTA, Calif. --l>ull'y Waldorf rollnd in eight birdie putts. didn't make a bogey and still had lots ol' company atop t.he leaderboard. 
Waldorf's 8-undnr (14 in Wednesday's opening round ol' tlw Bob llopn Chrysler Classic was only good enough to put him in a livn-way tie l'or the lead. 
Fred Funk, Hobert Damron, Ted Purdy and Joe Ogilvin also opnrwd tlw five-day tournament with (14S. 
Frnd Couples, tho I99X ehampion. .. had a 65 and was in anotlwr group of live in the desnrt tournament wlwrn scores traditionally go nxtrnmely low. 
Defending champion Phil Mickelson, who also won the nvnnt in 2002, shot a 66 and was tied with six others. 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, January 27, 2005 
Quinn scored 13 points, 10 (Francis 13), Villanova 39 
coming in the first hall'. 
(Sheridan 12). Assists: Notre 
Thomas finished with 12 

Dame 13 (Thomas 6), Villanova points, eight rebounds and six 9 (Nardi 5). Total fouls: Notre assists. 
Dame 17, Villanova 14. 
The Irish couldn't lind their rhythm early in the first half', falling behind 23-13. Brey called a timeout and the Irish eventually clawed themselves Contact Matt Lozar at back into tho gamn. After a mlozar@nd.edu 
Your Source for Reference Materials 

Villanova's Mike Nardi and Notre Dame's Chris Thomas fight for a loose ball at the Wachovia Center. 
Students 
Fly Cheaper 
spring break, study abroad & more 
Sample roundtrip Student Airfares from South Bend to: 
Washington, D.C.  $124  Mexico City  $288  
New York  $150  t.ondon'Wi$327  
Fort Lauderdale =$l94  Ffome '"'$42s  
Los Angeles  ·$208  Sydney:;;.i$13()8  

Visit StudentUniverse.com for cheap student 

These titles and more available at: 
HAMMES 
NOTRE DAME BOOKS'lORE 
IN THE  ECK  CENTER  
phone: (574) 631-6316  • www.ndbookstore.com  ~  
~  

Nova 
continued from page 24 
final minute because the Wildcats were almost as cold from the field as the Irish. 
The Wildcats had a 59-54 lead when Chris Thomas drove to the hoop and was fouled to bring the Irish with­in two after converting the three-point play. That was Notre Dame's first field goal in 5:10. 
Arter a wide-open layup miss by Will Sheridan and one free throw from Randy Poye, Thomas almost made a great play to bring the Irish within one. 
But his shot off the glass went halfway down and rimmed out. The Wildcats made enough free throws down the stretch to dose out their sne<md straight win and their first over tho Irish since .Jan. 6, 2002. 
Foye led all scorers with 22 points on 7-of-20 shooting. Villanova guard Allan Hay scored 21. 
Torin Francis -who looked as comfortable as he has all season in the post -paced the Irish with 17 points. Chris Mike Nardi layup put the Wildcats ahead 27-24, the Irish 10-0 run to build a seven-point lead they would carry into the locker room. 
The Irish return to the court Sunday when they host Connecticut in a national tele­vision contest. 
NOTRE DAME 65, Villanova 60 at the WACHOVIA CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (12-5, 4-3) 
Thomas 4-14 3-3 12, Cornette 2-8 0-0 4, Francis 7-11 5-8 19, Quinn 4-9 2-3 13, Falls 1-5 1-4 3, Latimore 1-5 0-0 2, Cornett 2-3 0-2 4, Carter 1-1 0-0 3 
Villanova (11-4, 3-3) 
Foye 7-20 6-8 22, Hay 8-16 1­2 21, Sumpter 4-11 2-4 11, Nardi 2-10 2-2 6, Sheridan 1-3 3-4 5, Charles 0-0 0-0 0. Austin 
0-0 0-0 0  
1st  2nd  Total  
NOTRE DAME 37  23  60  
Villanova  30  35  65  

3-point goals: Notre Dame 6­19 (Quinn 3-6, Carter 1-1, Thomas 1-3, Palls 1-4. Cornette 0-5), Villanova 7-15 (Hay 4-h, Foye 2-3, Sumpter 1-2, Nardi 0-5). Fouled out: Falls (NDl. Hebounds: Notre Dame 43 

Thursday, January 27, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
St. John's 
continued from page 24 
trailed 35-31 at halftime. 
But the Irish began the sec­ond half with a 23-8 run to take a 54-43 lead with 11 :33 remaining in thn game and outscored St. .John's 41-30 in the final 20 ready to play from the begin­ning." 
Notre Dame 11nally took the lead for good at the 16:21 mark when Erwin missed a layup, then grabbnd the rebound and dished off an assist to Teresa Borton to put Notre Dame in front 40-39. 
The Irish extended their lead to as many as 15 with 2:40 remaining Connecticut for a 7 p.m. matchup Sunday evening. 
minutes. The Irish led by as many as 15 in the second  "We came out and we weren't really intense and they were very  before the Red Storm fought back with two 3­pointers in the  
half.  intense."  closing minutes.  
Crystal Erwin  "I was  really  
paced the Irish with 14 points  Jacqueline Batteast  disappointed in our defense,"  
and  10  Irish forward  McGraw  said.  

The Huskies beat the Irish 67-50 at the Joyce Center on Jan. 12. 
Notes 
+ Erwin had a career-high 10 rebounds and Duffy had her seventh straight game with at least six assists. 
NOTRE DAME 72, St. John's 65 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (17-3, 5-2) 

Batteast 5-8 0-0 10, Erwin 6­10 2-9 14, Borton 5-7 2-2 12, Duffy 3-14 6-7 14, Gray 3-7 2-2 8, Gaines 0-1 0-0 0, Allen 3-8 2­3 8, D'Amico 0-1 0-0 0, LaVere 3-7 0-0 6 
ST. JOHN'S (14-4, 3-4) 

Clark 1-7 2-2 4, Kurtosi 0-2 1-2 1, Wright 8-22 4-6 23, Walker 6-15 3-3 16, Barlow 5­15 0-0 12, Jones 0-1, 0-0 0, Dukes 2-4 1-1 5, Thompson 0-1 0-0 0, Chambers 2-5 0-0 4 
1st 2nd Total NOTHE DAME 31 41 72 St. John's 35 30 65 

3-point goals: Notre Dame 2­6 (Duffy 2-6), St. John's 7-19 (Wright 3-7, Barlow 2-7, Walker 1-4, Dukes 1-1). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 49-20 (Batteast, Erwin 10), Opponent 42-21 (Wright 10). Assists: Notre Dame 21 (Duffy 1 0), St. John's (Wright, Barlow 4). Total fouls: Notre Dame 10, St. John's 19. 
Contact Joe Hettler jhettler@nd.edu 

Belles 
continued from page 24 

One bright spot for the Bolles was the continued improve­ment of Maureen Bush. Bush, who scored a eareer-high 31 points against Tri-State, led all scorers with 15 poinL'l. 
ALBION 72, ST. MARY'S 59 at the ANGELA ATHLETIC CENTER 
ST. MARY'S (9-10, 4-6) 

Lipke 0-4 1-2 1, Kessler 1-4 3-4 4, Mullen 1-4 1-2 3, Boyce 6-15, 0-0 14, Bush 6-13 3-4 13, Creachbaum 6-16, 2-2, 14, Malone 0-1 1-2 1, Mangan 1-3 4-4 6, Baum 0-0 0-0 0 
ALBION (4-1, 0-0) Fornett 3-5 1-2 8, Matthew 0-0 2-2 2, Glynn 2-5 1-3 5, 
Marr.uz 3-4 4-7 1 0, Guimond 0-0 0-0 0, Thompson 1-4 2-3 4, Babeock 4-5 0-1 10, Caskey 4-14 4-4 13, Meyer 2-3 1"2 5, Sventicus 2-3, 0-0 4, Garvery 0-0 0-0 0, Till 2-6, 0-0 5, Jenema, 0-2 0-0 0, Elder 2-3 
2-2 6  
1st  2nd Total  
ALBION  35  37  72  
ST. MAHY'S 29  30  59  

3-point goals: St. Mary's 2­7 (Creachbaum 0-1, Malone 0-1, Boyce 2-5), Albion 6-12 (Fornctti 1-1, Caskey 1-4 Glynn 1-:~. Babcock 2-3, Till 1-1 ). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: St. Mary's 37 (Creachbaum 7, Boyce 7, Bush 7), Albion 37 (Marcuz 10). Assists: St. Mary's 15 (Likpe 5). 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


rebounds, .Jacqueline Batteast added 1 0 points and 1 0 rnbounds and Megan Duffy had 14 points and 10 assists as Notre Dame improved to 17-3 and 5-2 in the Big East. 
It was the first time since Decnmbnr of 1995 that three Notre Dame players tallied double-doubles. 
St. John's, who was led by Kia Wright's 23 points, dropped to 14-4 and 3-4 in conference play. 
The Irish were down as many as eight in the first half as Wright scorched Notre Dame for 18 first-half points on 6-of­12 shooting. Erwin led the Irish with 10 points at the break. 
"We carne out and we weren't really intense and they were very intense," Batteast said. "They were ready to play so we we'rn playing catch-up for the rnst of the half. They just took a lot out of us. We weren't "Overall, we just 
didn't play a 
really smart game. I think we definitely did­n't play the kind of defense we played in the last game and that was discouraging to me." 
Despite outrebounding a smaller St. John's team 49-42, the Irish felt they continued to struggle on the boards, espe­cially on the offensive end where the Hed Storm had a 21­20 advantage. 
"I would say if you checked the stats that would be the 19th straight game we've given up a lot of offensive rebounds," MeGraw said. "We've struggled in that category all year. We have not been a good rebound­ing team all year long. It's going to hurt us down the stretch. We're going to be find­ing ourselves heading back home in March because we can't rebound." 
The Irish leave Saturday morning for IIartford and face 
The Notre Dame Lit Festival is looking for performers of the written and spoken word for its NO UNPLUGGED Night. As part of this year's festival, scads of talent will be unleashed on Wed Feb 16 from 7pm-10 pm. 
Submit asample of your original work to the Student Government Office in Lafortune 201 before February 01. Individual segments can run from 10-15 min, but we're flexible I 
please visit sub.nd.edu to find out about the Notre Dame Literary Festival &other sub eventsI brought to you by the student union board. 


----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--­
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, January 27, 2005 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Erwin's intensity must become contagious 
After three straight wins, two "I think we came out flat All-American Jacqueline up in Decembnr, and rebounds. of which were over top-20 today," Irish coach Muffet Batteast couldn't get shots in Wednesday night was no differ­"I thought Crystal did a great teams, Notre Dame was a prime McGraw said. "I don't know the first half. She took just ent. job on the offensive boards," candidate for a letdown, and St. why." three, making one. She When she wasn't in the game, McGraw said. "She really did a John's appeared to be the wor­That's right, Notre Dame rebounded well, especially Notre Dame struggled to nice job staying after the ball thy opponent. came out flat against St. John's. defensively, but Notre Dame rebound. When she was, they and being aggressive." 
For a while, A team Notre Dame has never simply couldn't get her the ball. didn't. But with Erwin, it's not just that was the lost to in women's Megan Duffy She finished with a career­the numbers. It's the way she case. basketball. A team shot just 3-for-high 10 rebounds to go along goes about it. 
The Irish who has played the 14 from the with 14 points on 6-for-1 0 She is the player Notre Dame played poor likes of Fordham, "/ think We came field, including shooting. Erwin was the differ­didn't have last year. Erwin defense, Binghamton and out flat today. " 1-for-8 in the ence in the game. She knew plays with an attitude -the struggled on Fairleigh Dickinson. first half. The that Notre Dame needed to good kind. The kind this team offense and A team who scored Irish were rebound to win, and she took it was missing in the first half. 
Muffet McGraw
showed little just 32 points struggling to heart. Erwin has become the player energy or against Connecticut. Irish coach against some­"We focus as a team to that Notre Dame can count on emotion That's right, St. one they should-rebound," Erwin said. "That every game for the little things. despite com­John's was leading n't have been. was my main focus going into On Wednesday night, they were ing away at halftime. But amidst the the game was to rebound. I the most important things. with a 72-65 Notre Dame played so poorly chaos for Notre Dame was know that's what we need to do And so, the all-time record win over St. on defense in the first half that sophomore forward Crystal in order to win, and I just try to stands-Notre Dame 15, St. John's. McGraw pulled the plug on the Erwin. Erwin was all over the do what we need to do that." John's 0. 
The closest margin of victory 2-3 zone that gave up 16 points place from the get-go. The 6-foot-1 forward played ever for Notre Dame over St. Sunday in the second half She hustled, rebounded, got just 25 minutes, but her pres­The views expressed in this John's could have been worse against No. 6 Rutgers. So then her fair share of shoves in the ence was seemingly felt for column are those ofthe author for Notre Dame. Behind 18 they tried man-to-man with no paint. When a shot went up, much longer. Seven of her 10 and not necessarily those of first-half points from Kia success. Box-and-one? No suc­Erwin was around the ball. The rebounds were on the offensive The Observer. Wright, the Red Storm led 35-cess. The Irish couldn't rebound sophomore has played well end, accounting for almost half Contact Heather Van 1/oegarden 31 at the intermission. consistently either. since entering the starting line-of Notre Dame's 20 offensive at hvanhoeg@nd. edu 


Connelly at No. 4 in a quick 6-3, Lauderback said. "She's done it game]," Lauderback said. "So 6-3 match over Rutherford. [comeback! in the past, and she this was a good match for her."
Doubles 
But it was the victory by did ~ great job of coming to the The seventh and final point continued from page 24 Stastny at No. 5 that secured net. for Notre Dame came from No. the victory for the Irish. Stastny The sixth point came from No. 85 Buck over Michigan's No. 95 
Racvcle 

Irish coach Jay Lauderback defeated Yaftali 7-5, 6-0 after 69 nationally ranked Catrina Exon 6-4, 7-6 (7-2). agreed. trailing 3-0 in the first set and Thompson at No. 1 after she The next opponent for the 
The·

"She played really well and it five set points. defeated No. 44 nationally Irish will be against No. 30 was exciting to see her win and At No. 3, Christian Thompson ranked DaCosta 6-2, 6-3. Wake Forest this Sunday at the be off the court so quickly," rallied back from 5-2 in the first "She [Thompson] likes to play Eck Tennis Pavilion at 10 a.m. 
Observer.

Lauderback said. set against Delicata to win the quick games, but this kid The second singles point for match 7-5, 6-2. [DaCosta] make her take her Contact Dan Tapetillo at the Irish came from Lauran "She had a great comeback," time [by forcing a slower paced jtapetil@nd.edu 

Thursday, January 27, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

EUGENIA LAST
CROSSWORD HOROSCOPE
WILLSHORTZ 

ACROSS 36 1969 #3 hit DOWN
00 0 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TI-llS DAY: Kirk Franklin, 35; Ellen DeGencres, Makes cry, in a 1 Literary inits. 
47; Eddie Van Hulen, SO; Lucinda Williams, 52 
and a hint to 
this puzzle'sway 

2 Org. that con­11 Way off ducts many much you can get done, not how much you have already finished. Looking 
theme Happy Birthday: It's full speed ahead this year. You should he focusing on how 
39 Sault Marie 
studies forward with optimism ami a positive attilllde will he what makes the diiTcrencc. 
15 Swelling rush 

40 Old TV part You will he persuasive, and this will enahle you to drum up whatever support 
3 MGM motto
16 Chute opener? you need along the way. Your hard work and dedication will pay off as long as
41 This, in Toledo starter 
you don't spend too much or take on more than you can handle. Your numhers 
17 City next to 

42 Comebacks are 4, 17, 22, 28, 31. 35 
4 Becoming grad­Newark 44 Progress little ually slower, in 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Lots can happen. Romance is highlighted. You'll
18 Lead-up to a music
by little 

have plenty of energy. so dig in and do your hest to get things done. Don't slow coup 45 1 00-eyed giant 5 Garden decora­down because someone disagrees with you. ***** 19 Failed at a TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Problems you least expect will develop. Someone 
of myth tions 
shootout may try to force you to make a snap decision. If you aren't ready to make your47 Uncredited 6 Smiling move, decline whatever is heing offered. ** 20 Additionally authors GEMINI (May 21-.lune 20): Your curiosity will lead you into some extraordinary 
7 Points on a line: 
conversations. Find out as much as you can ahout something you arc interested
21 Informal conver-48 Big pig Abbr. 
in trying. Change is beckoning you. **** 
sation opener 

49 The Cat in the 8 Faults CANCER (,June 21-.luly 22): Give your attention to doing the hcst you can. 25 Confronts Hat had one Someone will recognize your talent and want to help you or form a partnership
9 Upper hand 
with you. Don't give up too Jnuch hecause you are flattered. *** 
26 Water colors 53 It's loaded 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do you really want to get into a hattie over something 
27 Shot that's com-54 Bogey favorite that is trivial? Stop and think about what you can do to make your relationships work better. A linle compromisir*!-may he the key. *** 
10 Tournament 
pletely off the 59 Percolate 

11 Fund-raising let­VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone you work with or for may not he giving 
mark 

60 Home of Rollins ter you the credit you deserve. Protect your interests. Explain your position and your 31 Water pit College plan. Talks can help you out suhstantially today. *** 
12 First semester 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Get with it and have a little fun. You can turn an
32 Comparatively 61 Gardener's 
offerings ordinary day into one of love, romance, creativity and getting down to husiness. close need Avoid disputes and pushy people. **** 
13 Stopped lying 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't pay attention to negative people who are
33 Some radio list-62 Starts, as an 34 Sacred song 45 Disconcert 55 Coli. in Troy,
14 Taxi posting trying to detlate your ego. You have good friends who will help you get on with
ings: Abbr. agreement N.Y.
35 Goes postal 46 Mercutio's your life and find your way. Get hack to basics. ** 
21 Holds up 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Blow your own horn and exaggerate a littk
friend

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 22 Cry of 37 Baseball's Mel if you want. Someone will take interest in what you have to say and help you
56 Give a thumbs 

surrender and others 47 One who tithes down get what you want. Sell your ideas and you will prosper. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You will have a good handle on what you23 Quadrennial 38 Planelike 49 Boxer Riddick need to do in order to make things fall into place. Money invested in concrete event plans will turn out to he more profitable than you imagined. *** 
43 Where the holm 57 Obsolete form
50 "Come !" AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): The more you can do to meet new people. share 
24 Cash register oak is native of "to be" 
ideas and make plans to move forward with your life, the hetter. This is a day
44 It's said when for change and positive action. Take the initiative. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Money, work and doing what you can to get
~:=::+.±+=+.::-! 25 It's figured lifting the arm 52 Lug 58 MGM rival, once 
ahead should be on your mind. The more you can learn ahout a topil' that will
according to 
help you convince others of your abilities, the hettcr. *** 
the 14-Down 
For answers, call1-900-285-'5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a
27 Moving Birthday Baby: You are a little dynamo. You are always on the go and eager
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
to try new things. You are engaging and draw a lot of attention to yourself. You
28 water Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
are looked up to and always prepared to take a leadership position.
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
II!IP~;.,;.t-::+7+.'=-1 29 Orchestra sec­
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 Check out Eugenia's Web sites at a.\·troad1•ice.com and eugenialast.com.
tion past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).
30 Kind of coat 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 32 Retro hairdo solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
----------------------------------------------------~--------------------­
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 
I JUST FIRED OFF A 
SCATHING LETTER TO 

A COLUMNIST FOR MIS­DEAR NUTBAG, 
USING THE WORD 
THANKS FOR THE INPUT.
"DONGLE.' 
HERE'S A LINK TO A DICTIONARY. I AWAIT
) 
YOUR APOLOGY. 
CHARLES SCHULZ

PEANUTS 
I DON'T RECALL SAYING BUT I GUESS ANIMALS I-lAVE TI-IAT YOU COULD SHARE RIGI-ITS, TOO, DON'T THE'r'? Ti-115 BLANKET... 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square. 
to form four ordinary words. 
GEALL 
I I I 


4:!2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
GNAAP 
j

[J [ I I 
THE BAL{;;>HE:'A{;;>E:'{;;> FRIE::NC"S> HA{;;> A

tDAILIN {;;>IFFIWLT TIME:: {;;>OING THI?.IJ I I I I 

www.jumble.com 
Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

(Answers tomorrow) 
I Jumbles: LINGO TEPID EMERGE CURFEWYesterday's Answer: Why he didn't join the glacier expedition ­
HE GOT "COLD" FEET 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, January 27, 2005 
page 24 
NO BASKETBALL 
Big East ups and downs 
Team drops second straight conference game on road
Irish start slow, finish strong to defeat St. John's 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
This is not the way Muffet McGraw and the Irish prefer to win basketball games. 
For the second straight game, Notre Dame played a sloppy first 
half only to See Also 
bounce back with a much-"Erwin's intensity improved 
must become

second half en route to contagious" 
another vic­
page21

tory -this time 72-65 over visiting St. John's. 
"We're trying to play great every night," McGraw said. "We didn't do that tonight." 
On Sunday, the Irish trailed Hutgers by 11 at halftime but outscored the Scarlet Knights 43-16 in the second half on their way to a convincing victo­ry. On Wednesday against St. John's, Notre Dame couldn't find its rhythm early and 
see ST. JOHN'S/page 21 


By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
Call it an ugly end to a dis­appointing road trip. 
Scoring six points in the last 8 minutes, 24 seconds, the Irish (12-5, 4-3 Big East) lost 65-60 to Villanova (11-4, 3-3) Wednesday night at the Wachovia Center. 
The Irish finished their three game road trip 1-2. 
The Wildcats closely guard­ed Notre Dame's long-distance threats -the Irish only made 6-of-19 3-pointers, and the Irish were forced to drive to the basket and pound the ball inside to stay with Villanova. 
That adjustment worked, as Notre Dame held a 52-46 lead midway through the second half. From that point, the Irish only made three field goals. 
The Wildcats used three straight 3-pointers to turn that six-point deficit into a 55-52 lead. They were never able to close the game out until the 
see NOVA/page 20 



WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish dismantle No. 20 Michigan 
Doubles teams set tone early in victory 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Sports Writer 
The No. 20 Wolverines had no answPrs for the No. 21 Irish during Wednesday's mateh. 
Notre Dame (2-1) claimed a 7-0 victory against Michigan (1­
2) as the Irish swept all of the doubles and singles matches by Notre Dame (2-1). 
Sophomore twins Catrina and Christian Thompson, playing at No. 1 in doubles for the Irish, are the No. 2 nationally-ranked team. The Thompson's defeated the No. 15-ranked team of Michelle DaCosta and Kara Delicata 8-5, improving the twins overall record in doubles to 11-2 with their fifth victory against a top-15 opponent this season. 
Junior Lauren Connelly and freshman Brook Buek played at No. 2 for Notre Dame, topping Leanne Rutherford and Debra Streifler, 8-2. 
At No. 3, senior Sarah Jane Connelly and junior Kristina Stastny bested Elizabeth Exon and Nina Yaftali 8-5. 
Once the talent-laden Irish secured the vital doubles point, it was only a matter of remain­ing calm as they headed into the singles matches. 
"Every time you win the dou­bles point, you only need three more points so everybody is a little more relaxed," junior Liz Donohue said. 
In singles, Donohue was first off the court in an impressive 6­1, 6-2 victory against Streifler at No. 6. This win came after two close losses in her previous two matches. 
"After two tough matches, I just had the mentality to just get out there and start of strong," Donohue said. "I just got on a roll early on." 
see DOUBLES/page 22 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles fall below .500 vvith loss 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
Bridget Lipke was not going down without a fight. 
The Saint Mary's sophomore point guard dove on the floor for a lose ball, charged down the court, scrambled for her own rebound and drew a foul all in about a 10 second span of the second half of Wednesday night's contest against the Albion Britons at the Angela Athletic Center. 
In the end, Lipke's hustle went unrnwarded, as the Belles fought gallantly but were over­powered by the bigger, faster, and fresher Britons, 72-59. 
Saint Mary's (9-10, 4-6 in the MIAA) had only one day to rest after a 93-87 win over Tri-State on Monday, a faet that Albion coach Doreen Balkowski was well aware of when designing the Briton's game plan. 
"[They] knew we played Tri­State on Monday, a team that likes to run, so [they] ran us," Belles coach Suzanne Bellina said. "Usually they walk the ball up, but they were running it up every time." 


The Belles will get a mueh needed rest this weekend before playing Calvin in Grand Rapids next week. 
"I think we were exhausted [against Albion)," Bellina said. "We have a bye this weekend, which we really need." 
The Britons also effectively used their bench. Eleven differ­ent players put tallies in the scoring ledger. 
Albion played a zone defense for most of the game, making use of their size advantage and holding Upke and fellow ~:,ruard Alison Kessler to only five points combined. 
"A lot of Albion's players are bigger than us, so it's hard to get a shot over them," Bellina said. 
see BELLES/page 21 

MlB 

SUPER BOWl XXXIX 
NBA 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
iLl 
(.) Mientkiewicz 

T.O. says he plans Kefi match-ups 
Jackson returns Cavaliers 114 
Maryland 75 
z goes to Mets 

on playmg de ine game 
to Pacers Grizzlies 111 
Duke 66 
s 

The Boston Red Sox
= Eagles wide receiver The Eagles and 
Stephen Jackson LeBron James had 27 
Louisville 99 

traded the Gold Glove 
Terrell Owens plans on Patriots must win indi­
returned after serving a points, 15 assists and 
Marquette 52
c:c 

first baseman to New 
returning for the big vidual position battles. 
30-g;ime suspension. nine rebounds in the
=: York. 

game. 
win. 

page 18 
page 15 page 15
page 17 page 16 
page 14 




