
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 100 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 28,2005 
Death Penalty Week continues 
Events on capital Former Governor punishment organized Ryan will give lecture 
l\y MADDIE HANNA By KATIE LAIRD As.is[.llll News Edi [or NewsWri[er 
With an awanmnss week on George Hyan, former Illinois tlw subj1~cl undnrway, organiz­governor. will speak tonight at ers say the death penalty's con­the DeBartolo Center for the tentious nature gives it spneial Performing Art'i at 7 p.m. about signil'icanee on Notr·e Danw's his decision to commute the sen­Catholic campus, a snntiment tences of all inmates of the state edwed by professors who att11st on death row. to tlw iSSUI~·s contl'llVP.rsy. Once an advocate for capital 
"It is important for any punishment.. Hyan changed his Catholic institution -university, position on the issue after being school. parish -no matter how convinced that the justice system big, to put thn matters of' life is broken and therefore should and death front wnt11r," said Jay not be able to take a human life. 
sec AWARE/page 6 see RYAN/page 4 


Bengal Bouts raises money for Bangladesh 
by coach Dominie "Nappy"
By LISA SCHULTZ 
Napolitano, got its name wlwn 
News Writer 
the club began fundraising !'or the mission work of the llolyMembers of the Notre Dame Cross priests, brothers and sis­Boxing Club have been training ters in Bangladesh. 
for weeks in preparation for the Napolitano once said, "StrongBengal Bouts, a boxing tourna­bodies light, that weak bodies 
ment celebrating its 75th 
may be nourished." This has 
anniversary this year. 
become the motto of Notre 
All boxers have b0cn training Dame boxing.
at least two hours a day five to "It's cool to be a part of some­
six days a week for the past 
thing bigger than yourself," said seven weeks. 
Wieland. 
"I just figured it'd be some­All profits from the Bengalthing to keep me in shape, and Bouts arc donated to the llolyit's something I wanted to try," Cross Missions for the mission­
said Zahm freshman Soan 
ary work in Bangladesh. Besides Wieland. 
tickets sales. money is raised 
Pn~liminary rounds begin 
through program advertising,today at 6 p.m. in the Joyce 
program sales, '!'-shirt sales and Center Fieldhouse. The tourna­donations. A general admission ment culminates with the finals pass I(H· all days is $1 0. 
on Mar. 19. 
Father Basil Moreau. CSC. 
The original boxing club began missionary work in 
began in 1920s under guidance 
Bangladesh in 1853 at tlw 
of former football coach Knute Hockne. Bengal Bouts, founded see BOUTS/page 6 

Students present pieces in SMC Monologues 
loguns told stories regarding sex­
By DANIELLE LERNER 
ual violence, sexuality and what 
News Wri[cr 
it means to be a woman. 
"The !'act that people at this 
Mnmlwrs of tlw Saint Mary's school -cxpnrienced these things Collpgo community spoke out really opened my eyes to what this W<'<~kend with a presenta­women face," said junior Nicole tion of SMC Monologues, an Kusack. "You always hear these pffort to nrHI tlw sil!•nce sur­stori1~s and never think it will rounding violnncn against happnn to you or those around womPn. Tlw nv<~nt. compiled you, but this event really put a from anonymously submitted face to the issues of violence and pinr.Ps from studnnl-;, faculty and s<~xuality." Sisters of tlw lloly Cross. nntPr­Many studnnts felt that the tairwd rwarly 500 fHH>pln and SMC Monologues brought the raisPd ovnr $1.000 for tlw SOS issue of violence against women HapP Crisis CPnt1~r of St. Joseph into the forefront of women's County. minds. 
\Vhiln tlw inspiration behind "Tiw way they presented them SMC MonologuPs sterns from J•:vn Ithe monologues I really made Hnsl<~r·s Tlw Vagina Monologues, you think about relationships in this year's <W<~nt r.atnn•.d spm:ili­general." said junior Kristin cally to mnmbnrs of the Saint Mary's community. The mono-see PLAY/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


AP: Bush -will visit University 
Observer $[afT Report 
President George W. Bush plans to visit Notre Darn<• Friday, according to the Associated Pross. 
A White !louse news ndease quoted by the Associated Press said the pn~sident intPnds to speak about Social Security reform. 
Notre Damn Security/Police assistant director Philip Johnson could not confirm a Bush visit, and said in an P-mail 
sec BUSH/p<lgt• 4 
Events heighten GLBQ aw-areness 
Diversity Committee organizes week with lectures and films 
By MADDIE HANNA 
Assisram Nc:ws Edi [OJ 
Notre DamP's l'irst (;ay. Lesbian. Bisexual and QuPstioning ((;LIH)) AwarPrwss Wonk b<'gins today. Tlw PVPnts kick ofl' with a local speaker and continue throughout the week. 
The W<Wk is d!~signed to foster a more open-minded attitud!' among members of the campus community. 
"I feel this week is important for Notre Dame as a lirst step towards greater tolerance and respect for gay. lesbian. bisexual and transgendered people in tlw University and community as a whole." said Chris Vierig. organ­izer and rnemb1~r of tlw SmJatP Diversity Committne rnsponsible for the week. 

Vierig said the week would lw significant because of Notrn Danw's t!•ndency not to discuss matters surrounding homosexu­ality. 
..:rhis is tlw lirst time that gay. lesbian and bisexual issu<•s haw been brought to llw fon•front and rPcognizPd by thP Uniwrsity," Vierig said. 
SnnatP DivPrsity Committe<' chair Nicholas Co!PnHul said this wPek would try to countPr till' perception that nwmbers of tl11• Notrn Danw community can lw blind to homosexuality. 
see GLBQ/page 4 

Monday, February 28, 2005
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 



High profile 
At Notre Dame, perfection is a dirty word. 
On a campus teeming with strivers­where every roommate captained his high school baseball team, every profes­sor earned six diplo­mas and every class­mate boasts a wad of AP credits in her sil­ver-ringed fist-the pressure to live up to an ideal is daunting. 
The pursuit of Notre Dame-brand perfection leads stu­dents to do every­thing in extremes. Ace the midterm Wednesday, sneak into the bar Thursday. Do eight hours of community service Friday, tailgate endlessly Saturday, attend 10 a.m. Mass Sunday. Constantly aiming for perfection wreaks mental and physical tolls that far out­weigh the satisfaction of temporarily­and it is always temporarily-reaching it. 
But we're talking newspapers. Here perfection seems a little less daunting. After all. our ultimate job is just to tell the truth-how hard can it be? 
Very. 
If there's one thing I've learned during my two and a half years at The Observer, it is that perfecting the truth means dif­ferent things to different people. To some readers, it's as simple as spelling their names right or capitalizing the third word of their professional title-truth about identity. To others, it is printing a story rife with bias -truth as they see it. To others, it is including perspectives from every single angle in every single article-truth in its impossible entirety. And while I've encountered all these truths and more -through readers' anger and praise, through my own mis­takes and triumphs -one instance of one woman's truth sticks out in my mind. 
It was early October. Her 68-year old husband died at a home football game on Saturday, and The Observer ran a short story about his collapse on Monday. In my attempt to tell readers the truth, that the man was not famous or affiliated with Notre Dame, I wrote that he "was not a high-profile figure." 
It was the worst phrase I have ever written. 
I didn't realize it at the time. But two months later, when his wife looked up my address and sent me a Christmas card detailing the man's long, full life­and her immense pain upon reading that her love of 40-plus years was "not high­profile"-I was hit with the weight of my words. Ever since, "true" has taken on a different meaning. 
So has "perfect." 
As I take over today as Editor in Chief. it is tempting to look at The Observer's talented pool of staff and ideas -and at Notre Dame's perfectionism, and my own -and expect to put out a flawless paper every day for the next year. But I have to stop and remind myself that if we are shooting for extremes, there are far more important ones -fairness. consistency, accountability, quality, trans­parency, compassionate truth-to con­centrate on first. 
Perfection doesn't even come close. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd. edu 

CORRECTION 
In rhe sraff edirorial in rhe Feb. 25 edirion of The Observer, ir incorrecrly srared rhar former players would rerum ro rhe Joyce Cenrer for rhe lOOrh anniversary of men's baskerball ar Norre Dame on Sunday againsr UClA. Thar celebrarion will rake place Sarurday ar rhe Cenrennial Gala. The Observer regrers rhe error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD FIGHT ANYONE IN BENGAL BOUTS, WHO WOULD IT BE AND WHY? 

Amber McMillin, John Henry Ill Meg Boyle Prince Lowe Danielle Stealy Andrew Collier Eric Kimbuende 
freshman junior junior junior junior juniors St. Edward's Badin Carroll Walsh Knoll Farley, Stanford "Charlie Weis -"Rachel "Lee Regner "Martin Stone, "I would fight a "Each other, just to see what Polinski! because he the women's zebrafish and I would he's made of!" Consider this a could not get rowing coach. because they 
.

wzn.', challenge. Carlos Beltran After last week, start talking 
P.S. Craig is to the Cubs. " a swift upper-when you coaching me!" cut would do punch them." 

Japan claims longest overland tunnel 
TOKYO -Japan created what engineers here call the world's longest overland tunnel on Sunday, when railway workers blasted through a final layer of rock with a governor and other dignitaries looking on. 
The 16.4 mile Hakkoda Tunnel will become part of a new bullet train line under construction to link Tokyo with the northern city of Aomori about 360 miles to the north. The tunnel burrows under Mount Hakkoda in Aomori prefec­ture. 
Local television showed 
TODAY 
a:: 

Yankee shortstop and cap­tain. 
But instead, Manhattan lawyer Kerry Konrad agreed Friday to call it the "Jimmy Fund Center," after a Boston friend and Red Sox fan donated an addi­tional $6,275 to the chari­table effort. 
Boston real estate devel­oper Jerry Rappaport Jr. offered to trump his buddy's bid. The total of $8,600 is in recognition of 86 years between Boston's World Series victories. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
600 or so people sitting in the ribbon-festooned tunnel as they watched officials press a button to clear the last yard of rock with two large explosions. "This is an incredible feeling, it's an incredible memory," Aomori Gov. Shingo Mimura said. 
Coroner wins approval for shrink-wrap machine 
BOSTON -Wait 'till next year, Jeter. A New York Yankees fan whose $2,325 bid won an eBay auction giving him the one-day naming rights to the FleetCenter in Boston wanted to call it the "Derek Jeter Center," after the 
TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 




him some good." 
IN BRIEF 
Alan Bewell. professor of English at the .University of Toronto, will be giving the lec­ture "Traveling Natures" Monday from 4:15p.m. lo 
5:30 in 220 Malloy Hall. Tht> talk is cosponsored by lhP Department of English and Nineteenth-Century Contexts: An Interdisciplinary Journal. 
Susan Maxman will be~ giv­ing the lecture "Taking the Long View: Designing for a Sustainable Future" from 4::{0 p.m. to 5:30 in 104 Bond Hall Monday. The talk to sponsored by the School of Architecture. 
Former Illinois Governor George Ryan will give the talk "The Death Penalty: A System of Justice & Reconciliation?" Monday from 7 p.m. to 8:30 in the Decio Mainstage Theatre in the Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts. Ryan's talk will be followed by the panel discussion "The Death Pc~nalty in Indiana." 
Bud Welch. president of Murder Victims Families for Human Rights. will give a presentation entitled "Oklahoma City Bombing: Two Fathers & Forgiveness" Tuesday from 12 p.m. to 1:15 in the Coleman-Morse lounge. 
Marvin D'Lugo of Clark University will hold a seminar Thursday in 207 DeBartolo Hall from 3:30 p.m. to 5:30 This seminar is in conjunction with the screening of "La Mala educaci6n! Bad Education" at 7 p.m. the same evening. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

IJJ
::c 
~ 
IJJ 
3: 
..... 
<C 
(,) 0 


..J LOW 30 LOW 15 


25 19 

29 19 


Monday, Fehruary 28, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

LaVoi studies athletic trends 
Director of sports education develops programs for coaches 
Special to the Observer 
News from the world of sports can be downright depressing these days. 
Accusations and confessions of stnroid use havn run ram­p a n t through profes­
s i o n a I 
baseball 
from Nnw York Yankee first base-
Ill a n .I a s o n 

LaVol
(;iambi's rnported admission to a grand jury that his once bulky body was artificially acquired. to the unsettling, unsubstantiated and -often -unbelievable charges made by former big­leaguer .lose Canseco in a new hook titlnd ".Juiced." 
In the NB!\, members of the 1'ac1~rs and Pistons traded punches with each other as WPII as with Detroit fans, who tlwmselvns behaved likn bar­barians. 
And in the league formerly known as tlw Nlll.. thn gn~nd and short-sighted ness of both owrwrs and playnrs has led to a season-long strike. 
Tlwse and other instances of (mostly) boys behaving badly an~ enough to make many wondnr if the gamns people play an~ worth their time and attl'ntion. 
But not Nicole LaVoi, an assistan t profnssor of psycholo­gy and din~ctor of sports edu­cation programming at Notre llanw. To lwr. tlw trouble on and o!T thn !ields of play is a challenge. 
"As an nducator," she says, "I think wn can do better. and that wn hav1~ a responsibility to educate." 
For LaVoi. that means devel­oping programs to help adults -primarily coaches and par­ents -crnate a positive atmos­plwrn in youth sports leagues. Aftc~r all. if kids today learn propnr sporting behavior from well-trainc~d coaches and par­~~nts with pnrspectiw. they're l1~ss likely to act out in future athletic endeavors. 
"Athletes are in a flawed sys­tem. because there is little to no training given to youth coaches for how to providn a nurturing climate for kids," LaVoi said. "If you want to build character and sports­manship. you have to inten­tionally create a climate that fosters those attitudes and bduLviors. Most youth coaches have no idea how to do that. 

"There's a real lack of quality coach education based on social science research in this country. It's amazing, especial­ly when you look at the train­ing given to other people who deal with kids, and then look at the lack of training for coach­es." 
Parental training is equally important. LaVoi emphasized. 

"Spectator behavior is the greatest predictor of good or bad sportsmanship among kids in grades Jive through eight," she said. "Behavior isn't predi­cated on what kids believe or think, it's based on what they observe among spectators, and at that age, the spectators are parents." 
To address these areas of concern. LaVoi has developed several programs in an educa­tioncLI series callc~d Play Like A Champion Today. One such program is PACT -Parents And Coaches Together -an initiative based on the latest research from developmental and sports psychology. Created in association with the Minnesota Youth Soccer Association. PACT provides coaches and parents with the tools necnssary to help young athletes develop character, well-being, satisfaction and ­not to be forgotten -strong athletic skills. 
"Coaches and parents create a climate that influences young athletes' sport enjoyment and participation," LaVoi said. "Unfortunately. sometimes the climate is toxic, rather than positive and nurturing,. which can lead to burnout. dropout, competitive anxiety. loss of self-esteem. and poor sports­manship." 
PACT and other Play Like A Champion programs empha­size the development of young athletes who pursue winning by focusing on competence in the sport. earn and concern for teammates and others, and making good choices. 

LaVcli's scholarly interests were borne of her own exten­sive participation in athletics. A three-sport athlete in high school. she played tennis collc­giatcly at Gustavus Adolphus College in Minnesota, where she was part of the Division III national championship team in her junior year. She went on to coach tennis for six years at Carlton and Wellesley Colleges, then began her pursuit of a doctorate in kinesiology with a focus on sport psychology and sociology. 
"I felt strongly that I wanted to coach coaches to do their jobs more efTectively," she said. "That became my passion." 
LaVoi earned her master's and doctoral degrees from the University of Minnesota and joined the Notre Dame faculty in 2002. She teaches and con­ducts research in association with the University's Center for Ethical Education and Development. which focuses on educational ntllics from the perspectives of sport. schools and mndia and is a part of the Institute for Educational Initiatives. 
In order to keep her own competitive fires burning, LaVoi plays in local women's recreational icc hockey and tennis leagues. She also served as the girls' tennis coach at St. Joseph High School in South Bend in spring 2004, a position that helped her stay on top of the coaching profession as a practitioner. 
"I felt that I was losing my edge as to what it's like in the trenches," she said of taking on the coaching duties at St. Joe. "I felt I was becoming irrele­vant. 
"I strive to keep one foot on the practical side and the other in research. I believe that everything we do needs to have a practical application to it. I don't want to do research just for the sake of research." 
Easterday wins Slavic studies regional essay 
Special to the Observer 
Shclece Easterday. a 2004 graduate of the University of Notre Dame, has been named the Midwest winner of a graduate student essay contest. sponsored by the American Association for the Advancement of Slavic Studies (AMSS). 
i\AASS is a private. nonprofit organization dedicated to the advancement of knowledge about Hussia, Central Eurasia and Eastern Central Europe. There arc four AAASS graduate student essay competitions annu­ally, covering the New England. Mid-Atlantic. Midwestern and Hocky Mountain/Western regions. 
Each regional competition selects one winner for an out­standing essay by a graduate stu­dent in Slavic studies. The eon-test is open to essays that focus on languag1~s. linguistics. history. politics, culture or literature. 
Easterday's essay, "Murdering the Muse: The Homantic l'm~t's Hebnllion against tlH~ Sourcl' of llis Inspiration," examirws sub­liminal violence in the mall' poet's relationship to his female muse in works by .John Keats and several Hussian Homantic poets. Although the contest's winning essays most often are chapters of dissertations in progress or recently completed by graduate-level students, Easterday composed her essay for an undergraduate course. "Hussian Homanticism," in the fall semester of 2003. 
The other thren winners of the 2004 regional comp<~titions were students of Boston CollegP and Brandeis and Columbia Universities. 
Scholarships go up by 10 percent 
Special to the Observer 
The amount of scholarship aid awarded to undergradu­ate students by Notre Damn for the current academic year is nearly 10 percent more than what was distributed the previous year and has more than doubled over the last l'ive years, according to an annual report prepared by the University's Office of Student Financial Services. 
.Un ive rsi ty-ad min iste red scholarships -which, unlike loans. arc funds that are pro­vided free and clear to stu­dents from Notre Dame's financial aid endowment ­amount to approximately $59.4 million this year, some $5.7 million more than what was awarded to undergradu­ates in 2003-04. University scholarships for undergradu­
ates have increased by more than 150 perc11nt in tlw last six years while tuition has grown by 39 percent over the same pnriod. 
This year's undergraduate total is 53 pcrcont morn than the amount of aid provided in 1999-2000, and 10 times more than the $5.4 million distributed 15 years ago wlwn scholarship enhancement WiLS targeted by Notre Dame's olTi­cers and trusteos as their top priority. 
Forty-five percent of the current freshman class receives University scholar­ships amounting to a total of $ 1 5 . 9 m iII ion , n~ p r 11 s 11 n tin g almost $2 million abovP thP amount awarded to the prPvi­ous freshman class. 
Notre Dame is providing $36 million in scholarship support to graduate students. a $2.4 million increase from 
the previous year. bringing the total for University­awarded scholarship aid for undergraduate and graduate students to $95.5 million. an $8 million increase over 2003-04. 

Poker Chips from $4.95/50 
Texas Holdem Tables from $199.97 Poker Tables from $299.00 
Rentals Available 
Large 
Selection 
of Game 
Tables, Supplies and Table Toppers. 




TOLERANCE 
I.~ '•. K ,rT"Y (.oi' 
. ---' ~
NU 1J.:..t. D.\ .L: 

l\RT~~f(·st RECONCtLIATiOi~ 
.. 

w.~e W~r~'; DF t.'lJSt:. Fb'.'t.. ~~~~,I~!L. e}.li llr)(lriS[I'~ 
li·L h( ·v.: C~~1t o=:~;·r.'Eh" Jl IIU,\. ltU~''SIO'( ~·D THHH: 'HSLIL~· 
THE LtiRA.WiiE F'i:OJ[(T DE.AD MAN WAU:ING n 1.1:n:, u~h~~C.~..~ i'l Jl'tl HI:;>.~.:! turccv a·f ·~-;wm·.~ m.=mn E' ':UI ~·m uu .~-S(D:rn [.J:IJ[I w.u•~ .u.iL 11 onr ~ uwm o o nm.rn .:r~nu·r :;~-....,n 3 ·l?:~JUf ~· i'JJ.(t-2 
n~:-1 ;.t~·. ~· r f-.!.:u.I~.": •J.-, ::. '::L~m:, ~: u ~HH:. n:mr. 51~ SI•l I~L.l"li~Uif ~I) S:JIO~. SE Nl ~JtH""> :-.:' ~~~ TUi:t r .t,,;t""!" ~ ~"·,J·•'I•r•.•.:.~·.: u1 ,;t, Xrn'r·:! Tl:i -c~··.ll j ...., r-un:'.l[l .., ~ql.JC; r~ ·.:-::-.crd l Jo:'\~1 l kt ~:~rr...: ':1 t! y~ !!r~t l-.!.' ~JI':'I"W .~ ~ '111.1 u·. :l' \.•~-k·.· ~:O~:e"TI!': I~ :O:•.'I'ol~l R ~ .. lfiJ1 "''l:'llll:•.afo ~it( ir 1"1: Ll1~ k:u,.; 
., I olr:\ .:;;:..1..1 ;:1: 'tJ;l! IT~ b·1.'U ~.m~ ,_,,_~
~t: ;.,r,.~ ·.a 1.:-.i.'d"i JI.Jj'OTI:, Vr,tnt1'., ,:·.1~3 ,., h: I~;., 
t..:r .;,{~~ .,~ ...., ( .... ',;.,.: l. •4l~ ~~ •:.:J~ ~-.:·~ :.,pf hr.. h ! 
ll: .1.ILl :t..IJ a.:if:lHi SOl'l ((ft}.iH':. '1i:·';.h'll\ 
~ ~:t«' :i ri J:: ;:aew :~::-t"Q.~: ,~.l. 1·11~r. •·zli.,t~thrl~ 
"'ThE C..IIF1TC JJ:4(J.U Pli:O{[Sk
·no;;•!'·"-~r~ 

'SIS.TEM Df .:ll~TIC!.ILHD U((IHOI.UJ'l{IH~.r c-1, :lie '-·bx :t, ~:.:r.::t bcMU (n:jt ~~ 5tt:1 :JI ~·:io~ Y...-:it. ri!--J. :8. 6.. ~1 pu 1...1i:: Jia'll'lil~ rt::i:il~ 


Monday, February 28, 2005

page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
Ryan 
continued from page 1 
In January 2000, Ryan instituted the nation's first moratorium on state executions. He then com­muted the sentences of all 167 Illinois death row inmates just before leaving office in 2003. 
Many students are anticipating the former governor's visit to campus. 
Junior Christy Hanofee believes that Ryan's speech is a good opportunity for students and fac­ulty to gain understanding on the issue of the death penalty. 
"At a Catholic university it's good to show support for some­one who shares our ideals," Hanofee said. 
Freshman Alex Hale, a sup­porter of the death penalty, does not protest Ryan's lecture. He believes everyone is entitled to their own opinion about the mat­ter. 
"Everybody's given their right to decide, and that's fine that [Ryan] chose that," Hale said. 
Ryan's lecture, called "The Death Penalty: A System of Justice & Reconciliation?," is part of a series titled "Life in the Balance: Death Penalty Perspectives." 
Events continue Tuesday and Wednesday as Bud Welch, presi­dent of Murder Victims Families for Human Rights, whose daugh­ter was killed in the Oklahoma City bombing, will speak in the Coleman-Morse lounge at noon Tuesday. A panel discussion enti­tled "National Debate on the Death Penalty" will take place Wednesday at 4:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. Speakers will include Madison Hobley, Dick Dieter and Bill Pelke. 
Contact Katie Laird at klaird@nd.edu 


Play 
continued from page 1 

Vokaty. "It was really an eye­opening experience and really makes me realize that these things happen everywhere." 
Many audience members were unsure of what to expect from the performance. 
"J was a bit nervous going into it because I didn't know what my reaction would be," said Vokaty. "Overall, it just makes you think about real people's experiences and the reality of these serious issues." 
The Monologues were met with support from students and administration, Ginger Francis, president of Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination (C.A.R.E) said. 
"It was an emotional roller­coaster, but one that needed to take place," said Francis. "We've heard nothing but posi­tive feedback, and I feel it really brought people closer together." 

Although the future of the SMC Monologues is still unknown, there has been inter­est in publishing the pieces of 

GLBQ 
continued from page 1 

"It seems as though a lot of people do not realize that homo­sexuality is present at Notre Dame, and they need to be aware of that," Coleman said. 
The events planned were not intended to promote homosexu­ality, but as the term "aware­ness week" implies, simply to raise awareness, Coleman said. 
"Students will most likely encounter homosexuality in their lives after Notre Dame. Whether they are OK with it or 
I SMC Monologues were met with support on the Saint Mary's campus. Inspiration for the play came from The Vagina Monologues, which were performed at Notre Dame last week. 
not, they need to be aware of it," Coleman said. 

Both Coleman and Vierig said that while the campus has the reputation of not being overly welcoming to homosexuals, the situation seems to be improving. 
"The administration, by allow­ing this week and the gay film festival, seems to be open to encouraging discourse about this issue and that is encourag­ing," Coleman said. 
The planning committee hopes the week will challenge students to evaluate their beliefs. 
"I personally feel that Notre Dame students generally have neutral feelings towards gay, lesbian and bisexual peers, Vierig said. "We want everyone to feel a welcome part of the Notre Dame family. Holding a certain belief is worthless unless you've challenged it. I hope this week will give students that opportunity -to challenge their beliefs and realize the richness of cultures that make up Notre Dame." 
As part of GLBQ week, Michiana performer Bradley Bogaert will speak tonight about his experiences and challenges as a gay man at 7 p.m. in 119 DeBartolo Hall. 
On Wednesday, students will wear orange to show support so hard to put the experience into words. It was bigger and better than I could have ever dreamt for." 

Contact Danielle Lerner at lern6311 @saintmarys.edu 
and solidarity for gay, lesbian, bisexual and questioning stu­dents. Theology on Tap will dis­cuss homosexuality within a Catholic context at 10 p.m. at Legends. 
Thursday's event will feature free Chinese food in LaFortune Student Center starting at 6 p.m. followed by a screening of the film "In and Out." 
The Laramie Project will be performed Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
Want to write for 
News? 
Call 1-5323 for info. 
r----------------------------------­


I'RawD 
Special Hours for
1 Graduation Proprietors1 May 15th 4pm·l0pm , , .
5 

No Reservations \'-'arn·n l\: Lmcla 
: Reslauranl 
Please 
1tf'irst Oriaina( Pizza in 'T'own! 
Since 1951 Sp<·cializing in llalian Entrees Tu<·s. -Thurs.: :>:OOPM -11 :OOPM Fri. -Sal.: :l:OOP~I -1:00AM 


3'~7 1\ol'llt Sl. Louis South Bt>ml, II\ ;)74-2'n-24G4 
C11t out this t·oupon fol' £2.0() off any pizza. Dint··in only. l·>xpin•s 'l/'11!100!) 
'/h~ Dt·],.Lrtm~m 4Jf Art. An History aud Dt.·-.isr• 
i.~ plo!".;u;.eclto ;rnn.ounc.v: its iUlw..ut lollL}K'ti[ion fur Lh~ 
Rilry Pri:r~ in Art Hi"'my <.11ml Criti.:'ism. 
Cu~n-N<;>l.n!' D;une urtr.kr_t{r;ulu,;Hc ouHI KraduaL-c 
,;t•~d~nf~ :11'1!' mvi~("d lo ,..ulnnit L~~Ji)$ C>ll :.illY topi<: in 
cbc hi.;~;t~:or;.· n( art or .~n c ritk15rn l(~r t:utL<;idtT.lll•l4t 111 
th(' <:on1pc·t iu.nn E~~;~~~ nm~t olt•;1l \..,rh thr vi<;u;al ;tn,; Thot~· m~~ h"'\'lt t,...,.n wrillcn iu (Onjun• nt.;m with~ UJ<lf~ l.tl:t:'ll .11 lhe t·rn\•·r-:,i~y. l.•w nt·cd J~ur h,t\'r ~Jt"'~·n. 
Rul.-, 11'"'"'""·"1( llor· o'"J'l><liti•.•ll ..tr...-..n....:Lll:ok •n 1!·•r .\11 L:kj,;lll:nor·m Ctf!i•. c, 'YHJ. K.il.-~ H.oll 
l'wo. .:o:.pi<"~ ,·,f :he mbruiHkon uuw b•:: dcli\-rr~d cu !ht' An D-rJtanmcn: <.Yr...•· l:Jy :l 00 P:O..E. :O.I"t:<l.o\. ~ 1..." :-. ~ hr '"he-.-1,.<,1~ ... 

this weekend's performances. 
"There has been an over­whelming response to publish the monologues," said Francis. "They really show how amazing Saint Mary's women are; they are intelligent, beautiful and passionate." 
An upcoming open panel dis­cussion will allow members of the community to express their own opinions and give feedback to those involved. 
"So many people were really impressed and happy with how it turned out," said Francis. "It's 



Bush 
continued from page 1 
that NDSP docs not comment on "security measures for any spe­cial events nor security for any dignitaries." 
In his weekly radio address to the nation, the president said he will be visiting Indiana this week, according to a transcript on the White House Web site. 

Bush last visited the state dur­ing his presidential campaign in May, when he spoke in South Bend as part of a Michigan-Ohio swing. The president served as Notre Dame's commencement speaker in 2001, and has visited the area six times since 2000. 
-





ORLD & NATION 
Monday, February 2R, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Fourteen die in rebel ambush 
KATMANDU, Nepal-Suspectml commu­nist rPiwls in soutlwrn Nepal ambushed an army truck. shot a police chin!' and attacked villaw~rs Sunday. killing at least 14 people a day aftl'r lifting a highway blockade that rrippiPd tlw rtow of essPntial supplies in protnst of tlw king's recent power grab. 
Tlw rdwls ambuslwd an army truck carry­ing soldi«~rs on patrol rwar Patlaiya, about I(,() milns south of Katmandu, killing eight of llwm, police said. 
Anotlwr I 0 soldiers worn injured and takPn to hospitals, a spok«~sman at tho army ht>adquartl'rS in Katmandu said. 
In rwarby Butwal. suspectnd rnhds fatally shot tlw town's polic«~ chid and his assistant l)('forn nscaping. 
Saddam's half-brother handed over 
BM; Ill>All. lra q -Iraqi ofl"i ciaIs said Sunday that Syria capturl'd and handnd over Saddam llussein's half broth1~r. a most-want­Pd IPadPr in tlw Sunni-based insurgency. Pnding months of Syrian dnnials that it was harboring fugitiws from tlw oustml Saddam rPginw. 
Iraq authorities said Damascus acted in a w~stun· of goodwill. 
Sabawi Ibrahim al-Ilassan, who shared a mothPr with Saddam, was nabbnd along with 2CJ ollwr fugitive mPmbers of thn for­uu•r dictator·'s Baath Party in Ilasakah in uortlwastl'rn Syria. :w miles from tlw Iraqi i>ord1•r. till' oiTirials said on condition of anonymity. ThP U.S. military in Iraq had no imuwdiatl' COlllllll'lll. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Hahn's re-election bid tainted 
I.OS AN<;EI.ES -Mayor James llahn's re­ldnrtion hid has su!Tnn~d -along with tlw imago of honesty he worked hard to cultivate -amid accusations he ld corruption and fraud llourish at City llall. 
County pros«~cutors have been investigating allegations that Ilahn supporters shook down companies that wanted to do busirwss with tlw rity by tying public contracts to political contributions. 
Fnd«~ral prosecutors have opened their own inquiry. 
llahn has not been implicated and denies knowlndgn of any potential wrongdoing, but tlw investigations touch whole segments of city govcrnnHmt -l'rom members of Hahn's inner circle to Los Angeles International Airport and the water and power department. 
Police arrest suspected BTK killer 
I'AHK CITY. KarL -Dennis Hader, the man police !wlinve is the BTK serial killer. hid for more than 30 years in plain sight. 
lie lived in this suburb of Wichita. the city he is suspected of ll~rrorizing, with a wife and two childn~n. lie led a Cub Scout troop and was active in his Lutheran church. 
As an ordinanc1~ enforcement officer for tlw local govnrnmenl, lw oncn measured grass in a front yard with a tape measure to sec if it was too long, a neighbor said. 
On Saturday, police identilied Hader as a suspect in tlw BTK killings and announced an 1~nd to their 31-year manhunt. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Bidders snag pieces of the good life 
A cigar cutter shaped like a guillotine sold for $250. A 1956 Ford Thunderbird convert­ible once ownml by Madonna was the biggest sale at $53,500. 
They were among items from the land of the wealthy up for grabs Saturday at the Ililbert auction in Carmel. llundreds of bidders ratch­eted up prices whiln competing against one anotlwr and an Internet audience. 
The day's auction attracted more than 1,000 people and unfolded in the sporL<> barn and on the grounds of the $25 million estate of Steplwn llilbert. co-founder and former chief ex1~cutive of Conseco Inc. 
CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 'i ISRAEL 
Sharon to halt peace efforts 
Palestinians must take action against terror or peace moves will not progress 
Associated Press 
JEHUSALEM -Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon said Sunday that peace ~~!Torts with the Palestinians would be frozen if they do not crack down on militant groups in tlw wakP of a weekend sui­cidn bombing that killnd four Isranlis outsidn a Tel Aviv nightclub. 
Friday's attack and its al'tPrmath broke two weeks of ndaiivn calm and strained recently warming relations betwePn the Israelis and Palestinians following the election of moderate Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas last month. Dozens of people were wounded in the bombing. 
There were conrticting accounts as to who was responsible for the attark. Islamic Jihad, a Palostinian militant group with leader­ship in Lebanon and Syria, claimed responsibility Saturday after first denying any connection to the bombing. 

Abbas blamed the attack on a "third party," which other Palestinian ofl"icials said was the Lebanesn guerrilla group IIezbollah. which is backed by Syria and Iran. llezbollah denied remained quiet, but Sharon declared a cessation of vio­5. Shaath did not givP a the accusation. demanded Sunday that lence. reason for the delay. saying 
A senior Israeli military Abbas carry out an immedi­"If Israel wants to cut ofl' only that it was postpon1•d official said llezbollah had ate operation against contacts with the "due to domestie isstws" rrothing to do with the Islamic Jihad. Palestinians it will be its and "we are now working attack but was vigorously "The state of Israel is own decision and we will to set a new date." working to carry out other interested in moving not cry," Qureia said. "But Islamic Jihad was one of attacks on Israel. Police toward an agreement with we say that there is an the groups invited to thn remained on heightened the Palestinians, but there opportunity begun in conference. alert throughout the coun­will be no progress politi­Sharm ei-Sheik and we Israeli military of'f1cials try Sunday. cally, and I repeat no politi­want to develop this e!Tort." said Sunday they received 
Sharon blamed the attack cal progress, until the In Hamallah, Palestinian information a month ago on Islamic Jihad militants, Palestinians carry out a leaders decided Sunday to that the cell behind Friday's working on tho orders of determined campaign to postpone an upcoming bombing was planning an their leaders in Syria. Syria destroy the terrorist groups meeting in Egypt with radi­attaek and passed it along denied involvement. and their infrastructure," cal Palestinian groups, to Palestinian ollkials. who 
Abbas has resisted Sharon said. which was to focus on firm­did nothing. Israel's previous demands Palestinian Prime ing up a cease-fire with Israel also threatened to crack down, saying he Minister Ahmed Qureia said Israel and on Palestinian Syria. with Deputy Defens1~ preferred instead to use the Palestinians want to reforms, Palestinian Deputy Minister Zeev Boim saying persuasion to end the mili­continue the track begun Prime Minister Nabil Israel would not hesitatl' to tant attacks. earlier this month at a Shaath said. target its longtinH~ erwmy if 
Israeli or11eials had said regional summit in Egypt's The meeting, with eight it believed that would stop they would not pressure Hed Sea resort of Sharm ei­radical groups, was origi­Damascus-based groups him as long as things Sheik, where both sides nally scheduled for March from attacking. 

Opening statements set for Jackson trial 
Associated Press determine the outcome. as the target of a money-hungry moth­
"You will see two diiTerent trials in er who coached her son to spin stories 
SANTA MAHI/\, Calif.-More than a opening statements," said Loyola when it looked like their celebrity year after stunned fans watched University law professor Laurie benefactor would cut them ofl'. authorities arrest Michael Jackson Levenson, "the prosecution's case The defense will present evidenw and charge him with molesting a 13-against Michael Jackson and the that the mother has sued others with year-old boy at his Neverland Ranch, defense case against the boy's moth­claims of abuse. prosecution and defense lawyers on er." 'The bigger the star, tlw bigger the Monday finally get to outline their The prosecution's story depicts a target." Jackson said dming a recent cases to a jury. poor family whose stricken son want­television interview with Geraldo 
Opening statements will preview the ed to meet one of his idols. Hivera, suggesting his defenSI'. essence of the trial -whether The child's wish was granted, but Though Jackson's star has wanc~d on Jackson gave wine to the young can­the prosecution claims it turned into a stage, his legacy and showmanship cer patient and then touched him nightmare of sexual abuse and impris~ still generate a global audience. inappropriately. onment at Jackson's fairy tale horne in Jackson's lawyer suggested to jurors 
Both sides have compelling stories the coastal mountains 170 miles north that celebrities such as Elizabeth to tell, but the credibility of the boy, ol' Los Angeles. Taylor and Stevie Wonder would tl~sti­now 15, and his family likely will The defense narrative casts Jackson fy on behalf of tlw pop star. 
Monday, February 28, 2005 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Bouts 
continued from page 1 
request of Pope Pius IX. Now the Holy Cross missionaries are responsible for many projects including school construction and maintenance of wells and other sanitary facilities. The hallmark of the Bangladesh mis­sions is education programs. Missionaries build village schools and provide education for catechists and village teach­ers in a predominantly Muslim 

Aware 
continued from page 1 
Freel Landry. pastoral associ­ate at Little Flower Parish involved in organizing the awareness week. 
Landry said that the death penalty debate was tied deeply to Catholicism. 
"To be human, in the deepest part of our hearts, is to seek reconciliation. I believe that's the mission of the· Church, to seek reconciliation with all people and with God," Landry said. 
Kate Leahy, chair of Notre Dame Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty and member of the week's planning committee, said the week was crucial in order to stimulate discussion and critical thought among stu­dents. 
"I think we all see some kind of 'cosmic' sort of justice in the death penalty," Leahy said. "I think events like this are important to show that there are all kinds of reasons we should get rid of it -moral, economic and legal." 
Regarding the Catholic per­spective, Leahy said that recent events where Pope John Paul II has spoken out against the death penalty directly impact Notre Dame students. 
"I personally consider these events part of our duty to build that consensus [to end the death penalty]," Leahy said. 
According to theology profes­sor Todd David Whitmore, the Pope's statements regarding the death penalty have become increasingly "rigorous." 
"While the prospect of the death penalty isn't closed out­right, the Pope says he can't see any situation when it would be necessary," Whitmore said. 
Whitmore said that with the possibility of life without parole, "it seems that society is duly protected." 
Although the Pope has made his opinion on the death penal­ty clear, Whitmore said that he feels many Catholics simply ignore his beliefs. 
"I think most Catholics are aware of the Pope's stance -I think they just fail to live up to state. 
Returning boxing alumni have a series of scheduled events for the finals weekend. A welcome reception in the stadium press box kicks off the weekend on March 18. On Saturday, a boxing room open house. mass in the JACC auxiliary gym, cocktails in the JACC concourse and a ban­quet in the JACC monogram room all lead up to the final rounds starting at 8 p.m. 
Contact Lisa Schultz at lschultz@nd.edu 
their Christian vocation," Whitmore said. "Vengeance is still winning out." 
A Gallup Poll in October 2004 found 66 percent of Americans in favor of the death penalty, a drop from 80 percent in 1994. 
This drop in support is pri­marily due to new DNA testing techniques that found some people innocent after being sentenced to death row, politi­cal science professor David Campbell said. 
"Public opinion on most issues doesn't really change much over time, but the death penalty happens to be an exception to that," Campbell said. 
Campbell said there has been a fair amount of variability in public opinion towards the death penalty in the past 50 years, largely related to crime rates. 
However, despite these shifts in opinion, Campbell noted that at no point were a majority of Americans not in favor of the death penalty, which is cur­rently practiced in 38 states. 
"I would be surprised if pub­lic opinion in the U.S., at least in our lifetimes, changes against the death penalty," Campbell said. 
In the near future Americans could expect to see gr.eater protections instilled making it more difficult to execute and changes to the appeals process, Campbell said. 
Whitmore said that while the death penalty is contentious, there is not as much debate on the topic as he thinks there should be. 
"In some respects, I wish it [the death penalty] were more contentious," he said. "I wish more Catholics would be follow the Pope in his judgment about the lack of any need for the death penalty and be more vocal about that." 
According to Death Penalty Awareness Week organizers, this is the first time an event like this has occurred on cam­pus. Speeches and panel dis­cussions featuring the death penalty will continue through Wednesday. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
Finlen, you're 21. No need to secret drink anymore. See you in the 
Shaggin' wagon. 


Pope tnakes surprise appearance 

AP While Pope John Paul II made a surprise appearance at Rome's Gemelli Polyclinic hospital, Palestian Christians receive communion at the Church of the Nativity, the said birthplace of Christ. 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY -Touching his throat fitted with a breathing tube, Pope John Paul II on Sunday made a surprise first public appearance after surgery, appearing at his hospital win­dow just moments after a Vatican official stood on the steps of St. Peter's Basilica to read the pontiff's appeal for prayers. 
The 84-year-old pope did not speak during his one-minute greeting from Rome's Gemelli Polyclinic hospital, but sent an implicit and powerful message about his determination to maintain continuity in the church. 
The appearance -in which the seated pope waved and appeared alert -raised hopes he was making progress follow­ing a tracheotomy Thursday to ease a breathing crisis. The Vatican had previously announced John Paul would skip his weekly blessing -a 26­year tradition he did not miss even after he was shot in 1981 and recovered from an opera­tion in 1992. 
The Vatican's undersecretary of state, Archbishop Leonardo Sandri, read a message from the pope while standing between the towering statues of St. Peter and St. Paul outside the basilica. 
"Dear brothers and sisters, once again I address you from the Agostino Gemelli Polyclinic," Sandri told about 5,000 people in the square, relaying the pope's message as a chill wind picked up. White drapes were drawn over th1~ window where the pope often gives his weekly address. 
"I thank you with affection and feel you all spiritually near," Sandri said on behalf of the pontiff. "I think of you gathered in St. Peter's Square, alone and in groups that have come, and to all those from every part of the world who are interested in me. I ask you to continue to accompany me. above all with your prayers." 
Minutes later -at the hospi­tal 2 1/2 miles away -curtains were pulled back from the pope's lOth-floor suite. He was wheeled to the closed window 



FREE 

as the Vatican's No. 2 official. Cardinal Angelo Sodano. stood alongside. A Vatican photogra­pher in the room snapped pic­tures. 
The pope, wearing his usual white robe, waved with his right hand and made signs of the cross to about 200 people on the hospital grounds. lie then touched his throat. but neither the tube nor other signs of the operation were visible. His ges­tures were strong and he appeared in good form. 
"Suddenly, I saw a flash and then his hand that was making a blessing," said Elena Marzullo, of Home. 
Young Catholics chanted "JP Two, we love you!" Among them was 4-year-old Rocco Casillo, who carried a heart-shaped drawing with the words, "Go for it, granddad Karol." using the pope's Polish first name. 
The appearance was the clearest sign the pope has made strides since surgery. But how far and lasting a recovery remain central questions. The next official health update was expected Monday. 
Practice Test! 
LSAT GMAT GRE MCAT. 
Did you miss the first free practice test? Join us for another one in March! 
Saturday, March 19th, 2005 
LSAT at Notre Dame MCAT at Notre Dame GMAT at Kapfan Center GRE at Kaplan Center 
Pre-registration is recommended. 
Call or visit us online today to register! 
KAPLAN.  1-800-KAP·TEST __.., kaptest.com  
Test Prep and Admissions  

TttE QgsERVER 



USINESS

Monday, l~ehruary 28, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,841.60 +92.81

jones 
2 ....... Up: ,573  Same: 125  Down: Composite Volume: ~ 1,523,181,056  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSf S&P 500  l ,516.48 2,065.40 7,361.89 I ,211.37  +11.14 +13.70 +78.61 +11.17  

NIKKEI(Tokyo) II ,658.25 +127.10 fTSf IOO(london) 5,006.80 +37.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) -7.71 +0.21 37.62 MICPOSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.47 -0.12 25.25 INTEL CP (INTC) + 1.65 +0.39 24.09 YAHOO INC (YHOO) +0.79 +0.25 31.73 CISCO 5Y5 INC (CSCO) +0.12 +0.02 17.20 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.45 -0.21 46.42 10-YEAR NOTE -0.21 -0.09 42.72 5-YEARNOTE +0.15 +0.06 39.0 I 3-MONTH BILL + 1.44 +0.3B 26.75 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.10 51.49 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) +0.40 436.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.85 88.60 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 05.2200 EURO 0. 7548 POUND 0.5200 CANADIAN$ 1.2385 
IN BRIEF 
Paper shredding to see new growth 
FOHT WAYNE, Ind. -Northeastern Indiana companies that shred documents arc looking forward to a fcdnral law dnsigned to prevent idnntity thnfl that takes nllcct this summer. 
The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 requires businesses to destroy 1~mployen and consunwr records containing per­sonal information instnad of simply tossing doc­ument-; in the trash. 
Martin Yale Industries lne., a Wabash eompa· ny thatnumufacturns shrnddnrs and othnr oflicc suppli1~s. 1~xpects its shreddnr business to incrnas1~ I 0 pnrcnnt to 15 pnrcent this year, said Mark Knuth, nxecutive vice prnsident of opnra­tions. 
The eornpany, a subsidiary of Wabash-based Escaladn Inc.. had $HI million in worldwide sales in 2004. Marlin Yale nrnploys 115 in Wabash and about 250 worldwide. 
Knuth nxpects the growth to come primarily from small businessns and consumnrs buying smaller, less exp1~nsive shredders. Most largo rornpanins already had a shredding system in placn or pn~pan~d in advance for thn law. which takns elkct .Juno 1. 
Tlw law is dnsigrwd to help n~ducn identity thdt. which victimizes about I 0 million Anwrieans 1~ach year, according to thn Federal Trad1~ Commission. 
Wal-Mart workers reject union 
LOVELAND. Colo. -Noarly 20 Wal-Mart workers voted against union representation 1-'r·iday. n~jneting a proposal that would have established tlw first union inside any of the rntailer's ston~s in tho country. 
A union spoknsnum who announced the 17-1 votn said the group will ask to have the result-; thrown out. saying no union mnrnbnr was allow1~d to observe th1~ eloetion at a Wai-Mart Tin~ & Lube 1\xprnss. Tlw spoknsrnan said Wal· Mart addPd Prnploynes to the unit to dilute the stnmgth of union support1~rs. 
Wal-Mart had objectPd to even holding the vole, saying the Tin· & Lube Express was not a sland-alorw operation but only a departrnnnt of tlw larw~r storn. 
Tho voln by workPrs in Loveland was supnr­visPd by tlw n•gional ollic1~ of the National Labor Helations Board. which n~jm:ted an appoal by rompany I~X!~cutivns to prevm1t it. 
Wall Street no longer favors radio 
iPods and commercial-free satellite broadcasts slow profits and growth of industry 
Associated Press  
NEW YOHK  -For years,  
investors loved the radio  
business. Its sky-high prof­ 
its margins  were among  
the  best  in  tiH~  media  
industry and changes in  
ownership rules  a  decade  
ago triggen~d  a  wavo  of  
merger dnals. Prospects  
for growth seenwd great.  
Those days, Wall Street  
would rather hear somn­ 
thing  else.  Growth  in  
advertising has slowed. lis­ 
teners seem  to bn switch­ 
ing off their radios in favor  
of iPods. and a new threat  
is emerging from commer­ 
cial-free channels offered  
by satellite radio.  
This wenk. media giant  
Viacorn Inc. disclosnd that  
it wrote down the value of  
its radio business by $11  
billion and thn nation's  
largest radio chain. Cinar  
Channel Communications  
Inc .. said it lost $4.7 billion  
in the fourth quartor, most­ 
ly due to  an  accounting  
charge.  
Industry obsnrvers say  
many  of  the  problems  
rennet the industry's focus  
on  profits and Wall Street,  
rather than  consumers.  
Specifically. they point to  
cost-cutting that compro­ 
mised the quality or pro­ 
gramming, and a tendency. San Antonio-based Clear Channel reported a loss of $4.7 billion In the fourth quarter of  
to put more advertising on 2004. All losses were due to an accounting change to comply with federal regulations.  
the air. alienating listeners  
with  what's  known  as  edging higher. but nothing  reducing ads each hour by  2,000  of  the  nation's  
advertising "clutter."  like  the  growth  they  about 20 percent, cutting  12,000 stations  -many in  
In the boom years of the  enjoyed in the 1990's. Last  the amount of traditional  largn markets  - concen­ 
late 1990s, radio stations  year,  radio  advertising  60-second spots and selling  trated in the hands of a  
benefited from the surge in  inched up 2 percent, and  more 30-second spots, and  small group of public com­ 
advertising from Internet  in 2003 it rose just 1 per­ charging more for them.  panies.  
companies,  and  many  cent, according to figures  Clear Channel acknowl­ "The industry startnd  
increasnd the amount of ad  from the Radio Advertising  edges that it will likely take  running its business for tlw  
time, or "inventory," as it's  Bureau.  a  short-term financial hit  analysts and investor com­ 
called in the industry, to  In order to  beef up its  for its "Less Is More" pro­ munity, rather than its lis­ 
accommodate the surging  own  radio  portfolio,  gram, but it says the strat­ teners," said Ed Christian.  
demand.  Viacom, which had come  egy will pay off in the long  the  CEO  of  Saga  
"It was a  boom time,"  under criticism for running  run  by bringing listeners  Communications Inc.,  a  
said Tom Taylor, the editor  its stations too leanly, is  back. "We know that short·  publicly hnld company in  
of' Inside Hadio, an  indus­ selling off' stations that  er-length  commercials  Grosse  Pointe  Farms.  
try magazine owned by  aren't in the top 20  mar­ work." John Hogan, chief  Mich.-based  that  owns  
Clear Channel. "Then came  kets and investing more  executive of Clear Channel  about 80 stations. "It led to  
the bust." Despite a  big  money into the  ones that  Hadio, told analysts on  a  buying becausn you  were  
dropofl'  in  demand  for  it's kenping. Viacom also  conference call Friday to  rewarded for buying."  
radio  ads  since  then.  owns  CBS, MTV and the  discuss  the  company's  Yet  nven  as  Clear  
Taylor says, "There's way  Paramount movie studio.  quarterly earnings.  Channel  and  Viacorn  
too  much inventory out  Mnanwhile, San Antonio­ A fnderal rule change in  address their own  issues.  
there."  based Clear Channel is try­ 1996  led  to  a  wave  of  extnrnal threats are cn~ep­ 
Hadio rnvenuns  arc now  ing to curtail clutter by  merger activity. leaving  ing closer.  

Bank of America loses data tapes 
Associated Press 
CI!AHLOTTE, N.C. -Bank of America Corp. has lost computer data tapes containing personal inl'or­mation on 1.2 million federal employees, including somn members of' the U.S. Senatn. 
The lost data includes Social Security numbers and account infor­mation that eould make customers of a fndlmtl governnwnt chargn card program vulnerabln to idt~ntity theft. 
Sen. Pat Leahy. 1>-Vt.. is among thosn senators whose personal infor· m a tio n is on tlw missing tapes. spokeswoman Tracy Schmahw said. 
"There were sonw senators' Visa credit card accounts involved," 
.. 
Schmaler said. "We don't know how many. but he was one of them." 
The bank issued an apology. 
"Wn deeply regret this unfortunate incidnnt," said Barbara Desoer, who is in chargn of technology, service and fulfillment for thn Charlotte­based bank. 
"The privacy of customer informa­tion receives the highest priority at Bank of America, and wn take our responsibilities for safeguarding it very seriously." 
Leahy has been a leader of calls this week for a Senate Judiciary Committee inquiry into whether mon~ regulation of companies that buy and snll personal data is needed. 
That came after the disclosure that ChoicePoint Inc., a data warehouser, had learnnd that as many as 140,000 consumers may have had their pPr· sonal information compromised. 

"I hope this latest incidnnt at lnast will bring the issue closer to home so Congress will pay better attention to the rapid erosion of privacy rights that ordinary Americans are facing as more and more of tlwir JWrsonal and financial information is collectPd and sold on databclses that too of'Wn have too few privaey protections." LPahy said in a statemPnt Friday. 
U.S. Sen. Charl1•s Schurrwr. D-N Y. said hn was told tlw data barkup tapns wPrn likely stolnn ofT of a com­mercial plane by baggag~• handiPrs in Decem her. 

THE 0HSERVER 



IEWPOINT

page 8 
Monday, February 28, 2005 
THE OBSERVER Bush's media policy mirrors Putin's 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hertler  

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van.Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CoNTROllER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471. 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839. 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questiotzs r~garding Observerpolicies should b~ dir.cted to F.ditor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The: Olnervet (USPS 599 2-4001)) is publhhed Monday tht~u~h i=riday except during oc.un md va.;:;~.(ion perioJs. A "1bscriprion to Tb~Obf.erver is SJOO for one ac~anic year; f5S for one klnc'littt. 
lbe O~rvcr ii publilhed '(: POSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining H.tll Send addh."'iS correction~ to: 
No~ O<l.lne, IN 46556-0779 Tht0b5erver 
Pctio..IJ..:al JlO.H~e p.aid ,u Nom: Dame P.O.ilo•779 .anJ addirion.U malting. offi~. 02.4 South Diuln.~ Rtll 
Notre Dame, IN 46556--0779 
The Oh~ervt'r i~ a mem~r of the Annt:i;m:J J'n:~>S. All rt'fH<Hlucdon r~h~ are rncrvc:d. 
President George W. Bush and Russian President Vladimir Putin may have finally found something in common. 
Anyone who tuned in to last week's diplomatic talks between the two world leaders at the Eastern 
Joey Falco
European "oasis" of Bratislava. Slovakia, 
vrty Ounces
would have probably 
to Falco
noticed the cold, sober tone with which both men conducted themselves, due in large part to the long history of disagreement between the two nations in most areas of global policy. However, in his now-custom­ary efforts to advocate the proliferation of American democracy throughout the world, Bush may have accidentally stum­bled upon one area of domestic policy in which Russia and America actually bear striking similarities-"freedom" of the press. 
On Thursday, Bush offered a vague attack on the demqcratic values of Putin's state when he said, "Democracies have certain things in common. They have a rule of law and protection of minorities, a free press and a viable political opposi­tion." All gripes over proper defmitions of democracy aside, though, these hypocriti­cal comments did at least prompt a Russian journalist to ask Putin why he did­n't challenge Bush and "talk a lot about violations of the rights of journalists in the United States, about the fact that some journalists have been fired." 
How, then, did our noble president respond to this attack on the integrity of the democratic ideals of his proud nation? As far as I'm concerned, he lied. "I don't know what journalists you are referring to," he said, then turned toward the American reporters in the audience and disrespectfully joked, "Any of you still have your jobs?" 
I guess he was lucky that Matt Cooper of Time magazine and Judy Miller of The New York Times were not in the audience. Thanks to conservative pundit Robert Novak and a Justice Department infringe­ment upon freedom of the press, they cer­tainly don't still have their jobs. I guess he was lucky that Mary Mapes of CBS News was not present either. This hero of the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Abu Ghraib prison scandal is now collect­ing unemployment checks because she and Dan Rather questioned the president's dubious military history. Without a doubt, these were the journalists to whom the Russian reporter was referring, and unless Bush hasn't been keeping up on the news in his own country, I'm pretty sure he was aware of this, too. 
It's unfortunate, though, that the crit­icisms of Putin 's direct control over the Russian news were not met with a similar question about the White House's authori­tarian involvement in the An1erican media. Perhaps this (~ would have helped 
strengthen ties and further peace between the two 
\~.,
world leaders, because it cer­tainly would have highlighted an issue in which they have some­thing in common. While Putin pup­peteers news organi­zations like Channel One, Hussia TV and NTV, Bush controls a few media marionettes of his own -n.amely Armstrong Williams, Maggie Gallagher, "Jdl' Gannon" and probably a few more to be named later. 
In case you have forgotten. Williams is the syndicated columnist and television commentator who was bribed $240,000 by Bush's Department of Education to pro­mote the president's learning initiatives to the public. Ukewise, Gallagher is the syn­dicated columnist who was bribed $21,500 by Bush's Department of Health and Human Services to endorse the presi­dent's traditional-marriage proposals. Finally, "Gannon" is the alias-using, soft­ball-tossing conservative "reporter" who was repeatedly admitted entrance into White House press briefings under a false name so that he could ask Bush easy 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Kate Antonacci Mike Gilloon 
Where are you going for 
Karen Langley Ken Fowler Tricia DeGroot Tom Dorwart spring break? Viewpoint Scene Justin Spack Maria Smith 
Graphics Illustrator Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at Desiree Zamora Meg Dwyer 
www.ndsmcobserver. com 

questions that would not challenge the poor president's Yale-educated intellect. If you ask me, this kind of authoritarian media manipulation would be enough to get even Stalin, Castro and Mussolin: to admit, 'This Bush guy is GOOD 1" 
I!ow. then. can the president of the United States of Am£\rica justify dropping bombs around the world over innocent 
civilians in the name of democracy? lie llimself admittc~d that the k£~Y to a democratic state is the preservation of "a free press," yet while he was busy dipping the fin­gers of free Iraqi vot­ers in purple ink. he 
was also restricting the freedoms of American voters 
by regulating what was printed in the black ink of their newspapers. 
And there you have it. Only in America could a 
man wage a war in the name of democ­racy abroad while simultaneously wag­ing a war against democracy at home ... and get away with it. Kim Jong-Il of North Korea never had the world's respect because 

of the nonexistent free media of his home country. Putin continues to lose the same respect because his iron fist is squeezing tighter and tighter around the last remaining vestiges of free and inde­pendent news in Russia. And Bush? He was rewarded with a resounding reelec­tion victory and an overwhelming man­date for a second term in office. 
Or at least that's what I heard on Fox News. 
Joey Falco is a sophomore American Studies major. He can be contacted at jfal­co@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• ·'IDT 
C:...CON £NOUGt-t .. 
I


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"True heroism is remarkably sober. very undramatic. It is not the urge to surpass all others at whatever cost, but the urge to serve others, at whatever cost. " 
Arthur Ashe professional athlete 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~---~~ 
THE QI)SERVER 


IEWPOINT

Monday, February 28, 2005 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
ND civil engineer dispels 'myths' 
An important, revealing and highly entertaining pair of controversies has recently erupted in the world of aca­demia recently, and from what I can tell, there has been little mention of either so far in these pages, so I would like to take the honor myself'. 
The first involves a professor at the University of Colorado, a man named Ward Churchill. He teaches in one of the "studies" departments, home of all that is serious, intellectually rigor­ous and objective. It turns out he lied to get his job and is quite unqualified even to teach in a "studies" depart­ment, but that is not the story. Churchill made some comments likening the victims of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 to "little Eichmanns," as well as some other quite noxious and hurtful remarks. lie did not quite say "God bless those terrorists"-no good liberal would say "God bless" in regard to anyone, even terrorists. But he made it clear that between the terrorists who hijacked the planes and the people who died at their jobs that terrible morning, the bad guys were the folks in the towers, not the ones in the cockpits. 
Meanwhile, one Lawrence Summers, president of Harvard, was participating in a discussion about women in the sciences. lie suggested some possible reasons why the very highest level in the fields of math, science and engineering are so male­dominated. lie dared to cite innate differences of aptitude as one of the possible reasons. He did not say women are dumber, less stable or inferior in any way, though the hys­terical reaction of feminists to his comments might make one think they are. 
What I find so amusing and so telling is not either of these contro­versies alone (though watching 

Academic controversies merit discussion 

The destruction of the World Trade Center (WTC) towers had an emotional impact on everyone. As structural engineers, we too felt the pain of the lives taken, those who gave their lives in service and the loss of a great achievement. It has come to our atten­tion that "conspiracy theories" regard­ing the collapse of the WTC arc being p1~rpetuated on the Internet by indi­viduals who are not structural engi­neers. As students of the art, we would like to present a few facts to dispel some of these "myths." 
On Feb. 23, Leslie Hobertson, struc­tural engineer for the WTC, gave a presentation entitled "The Merging of Structural Engineering and Architecture." The WTC was not the subject of his talk, though he gener­ously answered a question regarding tall structures and terrorism. In his opinion, modern structures should not be designed to withstand intentional aircraft impacts. No amount design would yield a structure that is both 100 percent indestructible and cost effective. 
The following comments arc our response to the letter to the editor entitled "Sept. 11 collapses not explained," which appeared on Feb. 24. 
The WTC was constructed according to national standards and codes in place during its design. The original analysis considered the impact of a Boeing '707. However, the assumption was that the plane would not be fully fueled, would be low flying and would not have the intent of crashing into the building (as in 1945 when a B-25 bomber crashed into the Empire State building under similar circumstances). 
The fires that occurred in the WTC were initially sparked by jet fuel, which ignited other sources (desks, carpet, etc.). In 2004, NIST recreated the conditions and found tempera­tures reaching 1800 degrees Fahrenheit. The steel used in con­struction was tested under ASTM E119 (a controlled laboratory test, not a certification proced urc) and could withstand such temperatures without melting. However, temperatures of this magnitude would cause the steel 
to undergo thermal expansion, deforming under the existing load. 
Deformations from thermal expansion create extremely large stresses in the entire assembly, which would cause 
connections to fail. 
The design of the WTC was revolu­tionary. It consisted of an outer tube around an inner core. The inner core was not designed to withstand wind loads. It was designed to carry gravity loads from the floor system. This "truss theory" supposedly states that the floor system rigidly connected the outer tube to the inner core. In reality, the lloor system was not rigidly con­nected because the core was not designed to withstand the loads imparted on the outer structure. The failure of the WTC was a result of the compromised outer tube undergoing large thermal stresses. 
The collapse of the WTC was a result of progressive failures. Many believe visual evidence of the build­ings collapsing vertically indicates the buildings were brought down by a controlled demolition. In reality, the buildings collapsed vertically because the structure could no longer with­stand the force of gravity. There were no other forces on the building at the time to cause it to fall any other way. 
The FEMA report is comprehensive and does not represent a government conspiracy. Conspiracy theorists who state that the FEMA report is wrought with lies serve only to harm the repu­tation of engineers who went beyond the call of duty on Sept. 11 and since. What should be remembered about the WTC is that it withstood the initial impact so that thousands of people could evacuate. 
The FEMA report can be found at http://www.fema.gov/library/wtcstudy.s htm. 
The NIST report can be found at· http://wtc. nist.gov/. 
Kyle Butler Graduate Student Structural Engineering Graduate Students ofNotre Dame CE 461/561 Structural Systems Class Feb. 27 

Summers grovel and abase himsnlf is sort of fun), but rather the contrast in 
reactions to them within academia. Around Churchill, the faculty wagons 
have circled. Some schools have actu­ally invited him to come speak. 
Professors warn of a "chilling effnct" 
if Churchill is disciplined at all for his 
hateful rhetoric. Meanwhil1~. Summers is being torn to piecos. not only at Harvard, but in the New York Times and other liberal outlets. lin will probably losn his job. So the les­son seems to be: praise terrorists and insult thoir dead victims, fine-aca­demic fn~edom. after all; suggost there may be some natural differ­ences between men and women. and you arc unspeakably evil and igno­rant. So what if then~ is ample scien­tific evidence validating the idea that while women are in gpneral bettor at verbal skills (somehow nobody throws a temper tantrum at this sug­gestion), men tend to be better at tlw sort of abstract reasoning central to fields like math and physics. Never mind--the modern American uni­versity is no longer a place wlwre the truth is sought, but where agendas are forwarded. I noticed that this paper did a recent series of excnllont reports on faculty bias. I encountered too many exam pins of such bias as an undergraduat1~ to remember, certain­ly too many to list here. This bias is also one issue conservatives have been whining about for years. This parallel set of controversies could not have been dreamed up any better by any arch-conservative to reveal the depth of that bias. It is certainly rele­vant to anyone considering an aca­demic career, and it should be of interest to anyone in college. 
David Morse Class of '99 Feb. 27 

• I 
Democracy gro-ws in Middle East 
While reading Gary Caruso's column in an Army Morale, Hecrcation and Welfare (MWH) facility in Baghdad, I could only chuckle at his indignation at a camera angle and his offering of a couple of now-tired jabs at the states of Florida and the Supreme Court. 
Caruso, I wish you could be over here right now to see what I'm seeing. It was my honor to witness the birth of democracy in Iraq when on Jan. 30. H million Iraqis bravely and proudly stood in line to tell the insurgents that a new Iraq was born. I wish you could see the new hospitals, schools, and busi­nesses that are springing up daily. But mostly, Caruso, I wish you could sec the hope of the Iraqi people. It's infectious. It's the dream that life will be bet­ter, that the era of fear is headed for the history books, that Iraq will finally be able to regain its place in the pantheon of nations that it has been prevent­ed from entering for so many decades--often because of the complacency or outright collusion of the Europe you so desperately want us to mend fences with. 
Amazingly too, this hope has not been confined to Iraq. In the last several weeks, we have been watching the embers of democracy catch hold through­out the Middle East. These are tenuous fires to be sure and they might still be blown out, but from Egypt to Saudi Arabia to Lebanon to Palestine, people arP looking to Iraq and saying, "If they can do it there, why can't we do it here?" In each of those countries, we have seen the people demand from their gov­ernments greater freedoms and a scat at the table of democracy. The Middle East is at a crossroads and those crossroads do not run through Paris. 
If the price of this historic and amazing shift towards democracy throughout the Middle East is a few insulted Europeans, that's a price I'm willing to pay. More importantly, the people of the Middle East are showing us that it's a price they are willing to pay as well. 
Christopher J. DesBarrcs Class of '03 Baghdad. I'"4 hb. 27 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE 
Monday, February 28, 2005 

page 10 should be torn about the character The scene in which the two Poncelet's execution, and said that 

By CHRISTIE BOLSEN at the end." lawyers present their cases for and there is a place for this type of dis­
Scene Writer Given the publicity surrounding his against Poncelet highlights the com­cussion at Notre Dame. 
case, Prejean is understandably plexity of moral issues such as capi­"I think there are a lot of things 
After committing heinous crimes bombarded from all sides by people tal punishment. Both sides are per­that Notre Dame people in particular and sauntering around the Philbin who question her motives for becom­suasive and logically presented, until just accept without thinking about it, Studio Theatre without remorse, it's ing involved with .such a brutal con­the two men are speaking at the and don't ever challenge their hard for a death row inmate like vict. She herself admits to feeling same time with equally emphatic views," Cooper said. Matt Poncelet to gain the sympathy trapped in a way, and is not able to tones and neither can Scott, who co-of a nun. It's even explain fully why she be heard over ·the directs with Jay harder for audience has to help him. His other. Adding to the Skelton as well as members to muster nrst appearances conflicting sides of the "! think Tim Robbins is playing a leading any sympathy. "You look at the evoke no sympathy­debate are the appear­role, agreed about
used to doing things 

So why were so parents' pain and you even when he speaks ances of the parents of the play's potential
with movies, so he has 

many of them crying of his young daughter the victims. Prejean for discussion.
don't know what to do.

at the end of "Dead in foster care, his must face opposition these flash-in, "I think that the Man Walking?" There's a line in the offensive language to her involvement death penalty is an
flash-out things you 

The experimental play, 'Every person is about her mother and from many people, but issue that is political
couldn't really do

performance, based his frequent racial is deeply affected by as well as religious,"
worth more than his 

on the novel and slurs turn the audi-' the families of the vic­onstage as easily. " Scott said. "It's 
worst act.'"

movie by Sister Helen ence away emotional­tims. Scott said that important as well for Prejean and adapted ly. one of the hardest students to start to
Bryce Cooper 

by Tim Robbins, "Do I scare you?" he aspects of her charac­get involved and

Sliri Scott 
actor

plunges the viewer asks Prejean. He ter was her need to start to form their

director

into a morass of emo­might as well be balance both sides. opinions on their tions in two intense addressing the audi­"Everything is very own. They're out of hours. The play is ence too. gray, there is not black their parents' homes, performed as a semi-staged reading The more explicit description and white," Scott said. "What he did they're ready to start looking at where the cast members sit in a cir­about his crimes that follows drives was horrible, nobody's saying it was­things that we do in this country and cle of chairs. with the audience seat­the point home about what kind of n't, and you look at the parents' judging them for themselves." ed around them. The format empha­person Poncelet is. Words and lines pain, and you don't know what to do. She emphasized the fact that the sizes the raw human emotions of overlap and There's a line in goal or the play was not to promote everyone involved in capital punish­mingle as the play, 'Every one side over another in the debate. ment cases. several read­person is worth "I think those two sides are the

Dead Man Walking 

"Dead Man Walking" is being per­ers speak at 
more than his ones that should get into conversa­formed as part of the Spring once about worst act."' tions about the death penalty ArtsFest: Tolerance and the violent E a r because we don't learn about the Reconciliation, a two-week presenta­killings of a Delacroix's (Paul other side until we engage or con­tion of music, film, theatre and dis­17-year-old Director: Siiri Scott, Jay Skelton Berrettini) front the opposite opinion," Scott cussion. The ArtsFest also includes girl and an Writer: Adapted by Tim Robbins from description of said. the production of "The Laramie 18-year-old "Dead Man Walking" by Sister Helen his and his Dolson pointed out also the play's Project." boy. The lives Prejean wife's grieving Catholic perspective in the death 
Prejean (Siiri Scott) begins by talk­of the young Starring: Siiri Scott, Mike Dolson, Mary process after the penalty discussion. ing about how she came to be a pen couple, who Ann Moran, Paul Berrettini, Bryce Cooper murder of their "It's sort of a side of Catholicism pal for death row inmate Poncelet were shot in son is one of the that's sometimes overlooked, a more (Mike Dolson). Prejean's work with the head, many touching compassionate side," Dolson said. the disadvantaged makes this a nat­raped, kid-moments in the "The outstanding compassion that ural extension of her work, since the napped and repeatedly stabbed. play. Also eliciting sympathy at this Christ asked for ... it just allows you death row inmates are all too poor to seem not to affect him. point, however, is Poncelet himself in to think about that." be able to afford good legal counsel. The first time Poncelet lets down his concern for his mother when he Cooper thought that the format of The lights go down as Poncelet's let­his guard is when the state begins to . says he doesn't want her to have to a semi-staged reading fit into this ter in response to Prejean is read. In usher in an age of lethal injection as plan his funeral. Both sides are play in particular. the letter he describes how he does­opposed to the electric chair. He given a chance to win the audience's "I don't think a staged reading n't receive letters or visitors. calls Prejean because she is all he favor, although the horrific details of would work with everything, but I 
Poncelet's first appearance when has, raising the issue about the fair­the crime are not glossed over. think it works with this because or Prejean visits him in his cell is an ness of a legal system where it seems In the end, there is no tidy conclu­the kind or way it's made-! think Tim unpleasant scene. Dolson perfectly poor people accused of crimes don't sion because there Hobbins is used to captures his charac-stand a chance in cannot be with such doing things with ter, who is unlikable court. His concern an intricate debate. movies so he has from the start. The for his mother is There are more vic­these flash-in, flash­
audience has vague "You wouldn't have another gradually tims than winners, "It's important for out things that you information about his revealed indication although there is a students to start to get couldn't really do
learned in the same

crimes of murder and that he has a heart­certain satisfaction on stage as easily," rape. As the story way ifyou came and it he insists that she with the way events involved and start to Cooper said. "I think 
unfolds more of the form their own opinions.

was just an attempt to cannot b.e in court are played out. it's easier to do with grisly details are because it will tear Especially moving They're ready to start this where you can
be very sympathetic. 

revealed. but even her apart. are Poncelet's hesi­just change the lights
looking at things we doYou should be torn

before the bodies of Lucille Poncelet tant acceptance of a little bit or just the young victims are about the character at (Mary Ann Moran) faith, and his inter­in this country and make it a little more described there is a the end." plays one of the actions with his judging for themselves." dramatic ... it's bet­disturbing and horri­most effective sup­family toward the ter in this type of sit­ble quality about porting characters, a end. His relation­uation."
Siiri Scott 
Ponce let. Mike Dolson mother who is ship with the nun 


director

Dolson felt that this actor embittered by the who couldn't stay "De.ad Man was an essential dubious celebrity uninvolved has Walking" will be per­aspect of presenting her son has earned become deeper at formed Tuesday and the conflict in the her. At first she is this point, and his Wednesday night. at debate, and that it is better for view­defensive and suspicious, but relents open display of emotions, which was 7:30p.m. in t.he Regis Philbin St.udio ers if they're not quite sure how they eventually. She speaks angrily about absent at first, connects him even Theater. Tickets cost $8 for students. 
feel in the end. being the "mother of a killer," where more with the audience. $10 for faculty, staff and seniors and 
"You wouldn't have learned in the people recognize her and make cruel A post-show discussion focused on $12 for the general public. same way if you came and it was just comments, but becomes sad when the themes of the play, going along an attempt to be very sympathetic," showing a picture of her son as a with the ArtsFest aim of discussion. Dolson said of his character's rela­young boy and wants to know what Bryce Cooper portrays lawyer Contact Christie Boisen at tionship with the audience. "You she did wrong. Hilton Barber, who fought against cbolsen@nd.edu 
THE 0BSER\'ER 


CENE

Monday, Pebruary 28, 2005 
page I I 
'Diary of a Mad Black Woman' hits top of box office 
Surprise smash hit pushes 'Hitch' to No. 2 
Tom Ortenberg, president of Lions Gate Associated Press Films Heleasing. "The performance of the film is n~ally a 
LOS ANGELES-"Diary of a Mad Black tnstanwnt to Tyler Perry," Ortenbc~rg said. Woman" got its revenge against mixed "lie's a cultural phenomenon that is tak­critics' reviews by earning $22.7 million ing America by storm. In tlw next l'ew and taking first place at the weekend box wec~ks, those unfamiliar with Tylt~r will 
ol1ice. become familiar with Tyler." 
The drama-comedy is based on a script Audiences in Pxit polls gaw tlw film an by Tyler Perry from his play of the same A-plus rating and tlw vast majority said name and also features him cross-dressed they would recomnH~rHI the P(;-1 :{ ratt•d as a gun-toting grandmother and in two lilm to others. Ortenberg said. other supporting roles. The film's strong "Every once in a while tlwrn is a film debut pushed Will Smith's romantic come­that comes out uf nowhere and grabs tlw dy "llitch" to the second spot with a No. 1 spot and certainly 'Diary of a Mad weekend haul of $21 million, according to Black Woman' has done that," said Paul studio estimates Sunday. Dnrgarabfldian, president of box-orne~~ 
Films contending for top honors at the tracker Exhibitor Helations. "It shows tlw Academy Awards also continued to draw power that the urban audience wiPids at healthy audiences with best picture nomi­the box ollice." nees "Million Dollar Baby," "The Aviator" "Hitch," another PG-13 rated film. and "Sideways" ranked among the top 11 played widely in :~.571 theaters and its films. $122 million over three weeks made it tlw 
Final figures were to be released first film in 2005 to crack the $100 million Monday. mark. "Diary of a Mad Black Woman" follows "Million Dollar Baby," which stars bt~st­
Kimberly Elise's charactor, Jlelen, who is actn~ss nominee~ llilary Swank as a bull­kicked out of her house by her husband headed boxer, ranked sixth with an esti­on their 18th wedding anniversary so his mated $7.2 million. Fellow best-picturP longtime mistress can move in. Helen nominees ·"The Aviator," a biopic abou\ 
recovers from heartbreak by reconnecting lloward llughes, linishnd in ninth with with her cantankerous grandmother $3.9 million. while the drinking road-trip Madea, played by Perry, and by relying on movie "Sideways" ranked II th with $:{.5 her faith. million. 
The !ilm received some poor reviews, The latest Wes Crav<~n horror film. with The Associated Press giving it a sin­"Cursed," debuted in fourth placn with gle star in its four-star rating system and $9.() million, whik tlw W!\(•.kend 's otlwr National Public Hadio describing it as new film, tlw action-comedy "Man of tht• "half inspired and half really, really terri­llouse" starring Tommy Lot' .Jont's. ble." opened in lil'th place with $<J million. 
Showing in 1.483 theaters. "Diary of a Hevcnues from the top 12 movies wen~ Mad Black Woman" averaged a healthy estimated at $105.4 million, down 24.(, $15,307 a cinema. percent from the same weekend last year. 
Perry, who has gained a strong follow­The comparison was skewed bncausP MPI ing among blacks with his plays, should Gibson's "The Passion of the Christ" be given credit for the lilm's success, said debuted last year with $8:{.8 million. 
Photos courtesy of www.movies.go.com 

Helen (Kimberly Elise) Is shocked to discover that her husband wants to leave her for her best friend near their 18th wedding anniversary. 


I
I 
I 
page 12 Monday, February 28, 2005 
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
BASEBALL 
Irish drop two of three to Dayton 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
The Irish defense and pitch­ing hit a cold stretch in hot Arizona. 
Notre Dame (4-3) suffered back-to-hack losses this week­end for the first time since a two-game series at Pittsburgh last April 25th and 26th. Previously dominant, the Irish pitchers failed to close out the final two games against the Dayton Flyers (5-3) after junior pitcher Tom Thornton allowed just two runs on six hits in six innings and 92 pitches of work in the opener -which the Irish won 10-2. 
Notre Dame lost 13-9 in 11 innings in the second Saturday game and fell again Sunday in a nail-biter 11-10. 
"There were a lot of guys that just didn't throw well. That's the cold facts of it. And we get a good win in the opener, and, then, in the second game of the doubleheader, we took a 7-5 lead into the ninth inning despite the fact that we had had a couple of rocky perform­ances from Jess Stewart and Derik Olvey," coach Paul Mainieri said. 
In a back-and-forth game, the Irish turned to Ryan Doherty, their reliable and commanding closer. 
"A guy that had been pretty consistent for us. Ryan Doherty, just didn't get the job done. We blew the lead in the ninth and still had a chance to win it in the lOth and 11th." 
With the bases loaded and two outs in the lOth, ·center fielder Craig Cooper flew out, stranding the winning run 90 feet from home. The Flyers took advantage of third base­man Ross Brezovsky's fielding error in the 11th to put the winning run on base. 
Things snowballed from there. Dayton plated five runs ­enough cushion to hold off the 
Irish. 
Notre Dame's offense contin­ued to roll in the Sunday rub­ber match. Ten runs crossed the plate for the Irish in anoth­er offensive battle. 
Ten was not enough. 
"Whether we had 16 hits or 12 hits or however many hits we had, you've got to hit enough to help your team win, and even though there were a lot of key hits, there were some key at bats throughout the course of the weekend where we didn't come through. And it cost us the ballgame," Mainieri said. 
"So in some ways you're excited about the way that guys are swinging the bats, but, on the other hand, you don't let yourself get too excited because they didn't do enough to win." 
Shortstop Greg Lopez now leads the Irish with a .421 bat­ting average after a solid week­end, and Brezovsky comes in a close second, batting .414. 
While most students relax during spring break, the Irish will do anything but take time off. 
Though it's early, the squad enters one of the toughest stretches of the season during the break. The Irish head to Texas to face perennial powers Rice (10-2) and Texas A&M (7­
4) as well as Texas State ­who defeated Rice last year in the opening game of the Houston Regional-(10-3), Southwest Missouri State -a 2003 College World Series qualifier -(1-5) and Oral Roberts (5-3) -the 25th ranked team in the nation. 
Mainieri knows his team is up to the challenge. 
"There were a lot of things that went wrong [against Dayton], and we didn't over­come them," he said. "We've got a lot of things to address in order to get better, but it's a long season. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
•
Write Sports. Call 1..4543 
'" '-31!& "'''"~-;;:c, 
NO WOMEN'S LACROSSE 

Foote leads Notre Dame past OU 
Attack notches five goals as team wzns by half a dozen 
By MATT PUGLISI Sports Writer 
Flooded with questions regarding who will replace the goal-scoring prowess of graduat­ed All Americans Meredith Simon and Abby Owen, current Irish teammates Crysti Foote, Caitlin McKinney and Meghan Murphy provided some answers-and career highs­Sunday afternoon. The trio com­bined for 13 goals in a 16-10 vic-
Urgency 
continued from page 20 
ule: UCLA, Rutgers and Pittsburgh. They knew they were playing all three games on their home floor, where they were 12­2 and confident before Sunday. Though almost a week had passed, Notre Dame players and coaches also had the memory of an 88-7 4 Connecticut whooping fresh in their minds. 
Apparently, that wasn't enough to create a sense of urgency for Notre Dame Sunday. 
"It was like punch after punch that they were throwing at us, and we didn't have any response," Thomas said. Both lit­erally and figuratively, that com­ment could not be more accurate. 
UCLA set the tone with physical play. Freshman guards Arron Affialo and Jordan Farmar hand­checked Notre Dame's guards and fought through screens oh defense. Irish players inside and out had a difficult time moving with or without the ball. 
When UCLA had the ball, Notre Dame did not reciprocate the contact or the attitude. 
"It starts with me. It starts with the point," Thomas said. "I just need to get into people more like I was earlier in the season." 
By the time Notre Dame did get physical in the final10 minutes of the game, the Irish were called for fouls UCLA had gotten away with earlier. But this was only because the timing and circum­stance of the game dictated calls to be so. If a team expects consis­tent referee calls, it must play at a consistent tempo and level. 

tory over Ohio University in Athens, Ohio. Foote netted five goals and three assists while McKinney and Murphy scored four times each. 
The 16 total Notre Dame goals are the most tallied by the No. 20 Irish since a 17-7 thrashing of Big East rival Boston College last March. 
The Irish didn't waste time jumping out to an early lead on the host Bobcats, finding the back of the net four times in the game's opening five minutes. 
The quick start didn't last, however, as Ohio netted three consecutive goals to pull within 5-4 with 7:22 remaining in the first half before trimming the Irish lead to one at 6-5 with just 
Maybe Notre Dame has 100 percent confidence in beating Pittsburgh and Rutgers and earn­ing the necessary 10 conference wins to strongly·contend for a tournament birth. But quite sun­ply, on Sunday, Notre Dame wait­ed too long to establish itself. 
For the second straight game, an underclassman point guard received player of the game hon­ors against the Irish. 
Six days after Connecticut sophomore Marcus Williams went for 17 points, 12 assists and nine rebounds against Notre Dame, Farmar scored 12 points and dished seven assists to cut up the Irish defense. 
Coach Mike Brey attributed the Irish defensive struggles to his team's inability to deal with on­the-ball screens and other move­ment the Bruins created. Notre Dame also failed to capitalize on UCLA's inexperience. 
At the 12:22 mark of the sec­ond half, Thomas crouched into a defensive stance and played hard man-to-man defense on Farmar for about four seconds. The result was a chest pass from Farmar to Irish guard Chris Quinn, who led the break the other way. 
The problem was the Irish waited until the 12:22 mark of the second half to do this -or to mount any sort of resistance against a Pac-10 team who prob­ably didn't expect things to be this easy. 
"We just should have set the tone earlier with those two and really with the whole team," Thomas said. 

But towards the end of the first half, an increasing UCLA lead just didn't seem to be enough of a big deal. 
over four minutes left. 
"We came out really strong in the opening 10 minutes of the game -we were definitely dominating," coach Tracy Coyne said. "There was a period there in the first half where I think we allowed them to get back into the game -we didn't control the tempo and some other things as well as we wished that we would have." 
The temporary lapse in the first half never came back to bite Notre Dame as a three-goal run to start the second half put some distance between the Irish and Bobcats. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

Even with 14:10 remaining in the second half, Quinn was restarting an offensive posses­sion with the ball at mid-court and seven seconds on the shot clock. 
The coaches and players know they had almost a week on· after the Connecticut loss. They know. despite constant reporters' ques­tions about being tired, that fatigue was not the main reason Sunday's game turned out this way. 
"I think UCLA made us look tired," Brey said. "We chased and they really executed, and we were always kind of behind the eight-ball a little bit." 
But by the time Brey found the combination ofThomas. Quinn, Jordan Cornette. Russell Carter and Tarin Francis deep into the second half, the Bruins' lead was invincible. 
"It's not a horrible loss from [an NCAA tournament] stand­point," Brey said. "It is [a horri­ble loss] as far as some of the things we need to do better ... It would have been a very good win added to the resume." 
It would have. 

Even though there's a chance this loss may not drastically hurt this team's chances at a tourna­ment bid, coaches and players had every right to shake their heads and remain near-silent in the locker room following the game. 
And that's just what they did. 

The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarly those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd. edu 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepa1d. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST AND FOUND 
FOUND: Little brown leather purse/wallet w/picture of 3 children and a rosary near new post office and fire department Call Karen 631-6574. 
WANTED 
SHORT-TERM NANNY NEEDED from 3/28,29,30 and 4/5-4/8, 7a_m.to 5:30p.m. Granger. 2 kids, ages 4 and 7. One person all day or split part time. Non-smoker, willing to transport kids a must. Contact Jen 674-9876. 
Local alumnus looking for experi­enced babysitter. Call360-1617_ 
Catholic family offering full time summer childcare opportunity; 4 children ages 6 to 12; Scottsdale Mall area; 7:30 am to 4:30 pm;wages negotiable; non smoker; own transportation needed. Call Maureen 360-1738. 
FoR RENT 
COLLEGE PARK CON DOMINI­UMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED­ROOM,TWO BATHS_ HURRY 235­7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
Great 6-7 bdrm home available 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm available NOW Both Close to ND, W/D,on·site parking. ND Internet Canopy access. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 
DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS­ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED­ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS_ MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7­8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWWDOMUSKRAMER_COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234-2436 OR 574-315-5032. 
2 bdrm condo on the lake w/loft 1-car garage, close to ND. $650/mo. Call 317-815-1329, 
19237 Cleveland 7 bdrm -52950 Marks 5 bdrm -202 E_ Cripe 4 bdrm -222 E_ Willow 3 bdrm.2773097 
Now is the time to reserve your house for 06-07. Call 233-9947 or go to www.andersonndrentals.com 
Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 bdrms. High·end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent program. Blue & Gold Homes (574)250-7653. 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 S.B_ AVE -605 ST. PETER CALL 532-1408 
MMMRENTALS.COM 6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH+ DEP. STAFF AND FAG­ULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876-3537. 

2-3 bdrm houses avaiL now and 05· 
06. Close to ND. Call 276-2333_ Omni Properties 
FoR SALE 

OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE_ 4 rm, 2 bath_ For details fimbeL1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900 
Save your grant money & buy a refurbished DELL computer. $100&up, 229-3333 
PERSONALS 

Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! Panama City, Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award Winning Company! Spring BreakTraveLoom 1-800-678-6386 FIGHT AIDS IN AFRICA 14 months volunteer program" Education, Prevention and Community mobilization! Fees apply/scholarships available through volunteering before pro­gram start_ Start: September 2005, Email: Line@ locallink net (269) 591-0518 www_iicgmiorg 
let's go home 
ray has a pretty face 
i like cheeseburgers 
mountain dew 
franzia fest = success 
hi diane and doyle 
NDBA 
goodnight 

Monday, february 28, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
MEN's LAcRossE 
Notre Daine destroys Penn State in opener 
A trio of Irish players turn hat tricks while Walsh hits milestone 
By MIKE GILLOON 
Sporrs Wrircr 
!'laying on tiH1 road against a top-25 team is not an easy way to start a season. So wlwn No. I 0 Notm Danw defeated No. 21 I'Pnn State 14-(J Sunday. Irish coach Knvin Corrigan was illlpr11SSPd. 
"Yes. I was surprised." Corrigan said about his pro­gram's largest margin of victory evPr against a ranknd team on tlw road. "The history or this series is closn. It's a positive start ror us." 
Notn1 Dame's dnfense keyed tl111 victory. L11d by goalie StPwart Crosland. who tallied IH sav11s. the Irish held Penn Statn scorolnss for tlw linal 25 minutns. 
"Our ddnnsn nxecutnd really w11! I . " Co r r i g a n sai d . "!Crosland! played wnll and wn did a great job on ground balls." 
Leading 8-5 at hall'time. the Irish allowed a goal by Nittany Lion attack Nate Whitaker with 
25:17 left in the second period. Notrn Dame struck back quick­ly, padding its lead 53 seconds later as returning All-American Pat Walsh netted his lirst goal of the year. 
Tho score pushnd Walsh's career point total to 100. The junior reached the century mark in only 27 matches, faster than any Irish playnr except all­time leading scorer Handy Col111Y, who achioved the mark in 21 gamns. 
"lie's a terrific player," Corrigan said. "Pat is the glue that holds that ond or the field together." 
Walsh and the other starting attacks -Matt Karweck and Jim Morrison -each recorded thrne goals. 
Karweck is making a habit or playing well against the Nittany Lions. with his hat trick raising his goal total to seven in the past two games against Penn Stat11. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
'Hawks' downed by renewed Irish 
Thompson twins get back to winning ways Sunday against Iowa 
By DAN TAPETILLO 
Spom Wri rcr 
Despite losing 4-3 to No. 13 T11xas on Friday. it took little n!Tort from No. 20 Notre Dame (5-5) to bounce back with a 7-0 shutout oVI~r No. 57 Iowa (4-3) Sunday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. Tho win marked the third consecutivP Big Ten oppo­rwnt l.lw Irish have defeatnd this s11ason after topping No. 4(J Ohio StatP f>-1 and No. 20 Michigan 7­0. 
From the b11ginning of the con­test. Notrn Damn linmd little dif­lir.ulty securing the doubl11s point with wins at tlw No. 1 and No. 3 positions. 
Al'tPr losing tlwir lirst doubles match or tlw spring season to Tnxas on Friday. tho top-ranked douhl1~s team in tho country ­sophomorn twins Catrina and Christian Thompson -dnf11ated tlw No. 51J rank11d M1~g Bacdt1~ and llillary Mintz H-3. 
"Wlwn wn play1~d Tnxas. it was orw of our worst matclws. Wn WPn•n't gntting r11turns and mak­ing a lot of unforclHI !~ITOI'S," Christian Thompson said. "But today WI' wnrn just going out positive curd n~ady to play and it turrwd out I 0 tinws lwttnr." 
NotrP I )amP also won at No. 3 with s1~nior captain Sarah Jarw Conrwlly and junior Kiki Stastny owr .lacquPlirw Ln11 and Morgan Tuttle H-2. 
llowPvnr. Iowa did nHtnage to lind a win at No. 2 from tlw tPam of llillary Tyler and Anastasia Zhukova over the Irish's Brook Buck and Lauren Connelly 9-7. 
In the singles matches, No. 32 ranked Catrina Thompson defeated Bacette 6-7 (6-8). 7-5. 1-0 (1 0-6) after dropping a first­set tiebreaker. Thompson improved to 7-3 this spring. 
"I knew the team had already won during my match. so it made me a little more relaxed out there," Catrina Thompson said. 
No. 60 rankod Buck, who played at No. 2 for the Irish, topped No. 7~ llillary Mintz 6-2, 6-2. Following Buck at No. 3 was Christian Thompson, who broke a three-match losing streak after defeating Zhukova 6-1. 6-2. 
"I felt like I served well today and that made the difference," Christian Thompson said. 
Playing at the No. 4 for the first time since her freshman year was Statsny who topped Zhukova 6-2, 6-3. Stastny's win improved her singles record to lf>-6 this season. 
Lauren Connelly played at the No. 5 position for the Irish. top­ping Tyler f>-2. (J-1. 
Compl!~ting tlw shutout at No. f1 was junior Liz Donohue who dd·eated .lacqunline Len 6-2. 6-0. 
On Friday. Notre Dame lost another close 4-3 decision to Texas d11spite winning the early doubles point. In tlw loss. the Thompson's also lost their lirst match this spring to No. 26 ranked Katie Buckert and Kendra Strohm 8-5 just after becoming t.he No. l ranked dou­blns tPam in the country. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 
FENCING 

Teams do well at MWCC's 
Zagunis, Kryczalo skip tourney, rest before region meet 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Wrircr 
The Irish believe that team 
success is more important 
than individual glory -or at 
least they act that way. 
After Saturday's team com­petition in the Mid-Western Collegiate Championships, some of Notre Dame's top fencers, including senior epeeist Alicjo Kryczalo and freshman sabre Marie! Zagunis. sat out or Sunday's individual tournament in order to heal injuries and rest before the NCAA regional meet, which begins this weekend. 
As it turns out, Notre Dame triumphed in both events, as both the No. 1 women's team and the No. 4 mon's squad swept Sunday's individual com­petition. taking all six events. Meanwhile, the women also took l'irst place in Saturday's team contest as the men l'in­ished in second behind top­ranked Ohio State. 
"I don't know if it is the 
moment to celebrate. I know 
that we have big events coming 
up, Ibull good results are good 
results." he said. "I won't say 
that I'm not happy." 
Preparing for these big events, the NCAA regionals and finals. Kryczalo and Zag·unis did not compete in the individual championship -an event both of them would have had a good chance of winning. 
"They competed in the most important bouts, !but] we did­n't want to risk the NCAA posi­tion of [Kryczalo and Zagunis]." Bednarski said. "It's the end of the season. and bouting brings a toll." 
The most important bout each of them competed in were in the team linals, as both led their respective weapons against Ohio State. Kryczalo and two-time NCAA runner-up Andrea Ament both fell to the Buckeyes' All-American IIanna Thompson. Then both rallied to beat her twin sister, Metta, and lead the Irish to a 5-4 win in the women's foil final. The women's sabre team. on the othor hand. fell to Ohio State by the same score despite an undefeated performance by Zagunis. 
"Zagunis was beautiful in her bouts with Northwestern and Ohio State," Bednarski said. 
Despite their overall victo­ry. the foil was the only event Notre Dame won as a team. The Irish finished 3rd in women's epee, losing their semilinal match to a strong Wayne Statn tnam led by Anna Vinnikov and dnfend­ing NCAA champion Anna c;arina. both of whom swept the top Irish pairing of s11nior KetTi \\'alton and sophomore Amy Orlando. 
In the men's division. Notre Damn was undef1~ated except for losses to Ohio State in each of the thn~n weapons, lin ish ing second in sabre and third in foil and epee. 
The loss in the semifinals marked the first loss or the season for the Irish epee team. Ohio State clinclwd the 5-3 victory wlwn All-American Dennis Tolkachev defeated senior Michal Sobieraj 5-2, marking the lirst time Sobieraj had lost to his rival. 


Freshman Jakub Jedrkowiak led the Irish in the men's foil. going 7-1 on Saturday before losing to defending champion Boaz Ellis or Ohio State in the semifinals, a match the Buckeyes won 5-2. After the loss, Notre Dame topped Northwestern 5-2 to take third place. 
In the sabre. the Irish again lost to Ohio State -this time in the finals. Notre Damn showed lots or promise in their 5-2 loss, as sophomores Patrick Ghattas and Matt Stearns each registered victo­ries against strong Buckeyes opponents, beating two-time defending NCAA champ Adam Crompton and All-American Jason Paul. respectively. 
On Sunday, the Irish had a much easier path, as their team tournament nemesis Ohio State withdrew from the indi­vidual competition. 
"When Ohio [State] left, the competition was much weaker. but our kids fenced well." Bednarski said. 
These strong performances began in women's epee. as Walton and Orlando both defeated their Wayne State opponents Garina and Vinnikov in the semifinals to set up an all-Notre Dame linal. which Walton won 15-14. 
"Our fencers are strong and Wayne State is strong. If we fenced Monday maybe n1sults would bn diffnrent again; it's tough to predict," B11dnarski said of thn budding rivalry. 

Two otlwr Notre Dame sPn­iors. Ament and Sobieraj. tri­umphed as well in thnir l'inal career performancn in thP Joyco Center. Ament pullnd ofT an impn~ssive comeback in tlw final. falling behind 8-1 to Northwestern's J11ssiea Florindo before rallying for a 15-11 viet.ory. 
Sobieraj took his victory in another all-Irish lin<ll. defeat­ing teammate Jesse L<wuchli 15-9. 
"lie has to learn to bn bPttPr at the beginning of th11 day, but he was very focused Sunday." Bednarski said. 
The sweep was completed by victories by sophomore Frank Botempo in men's foil, and by Ghattas and Valerie Providenza in each sabre linal. 
"We won everything that was possible to win. It was a good tournament for us," Bednarski said. 
The Irish will now turn their attention to maximizing suc­cess in next weekend's NCAA regionals. 
"We hope to cure our bruisPs from this competition. Our goal will not be losing the conl'i­dence we've built but keeping the attention that in sports. you can't say I am good. but [realize I that the opponent wants to beat you." he said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
Students 
Fly Cheaper 
spring break. study abroad &more 
Sample roundtrip Student Alriares from South Bend to: 
Washington, D.C.  $124  Mexico City  $265  
New York City  $168  Frankfurt  $321  
Los Angeles  $233  London  $321  
Anchorage  $261  Melbourne  $1260  


-· 
-
Monday, February 28, 2005 
page 14 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S GOLF 
Bayou beckoning

·-
Kubinski and Co. 
Irish travel to Tulane Invitational today to take on watery links 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Whether it be a Green Wave or a Rip Tide, the Irish will try to stay out of the water for the next two days. as the team competes in the Bayou with a dozen other schools in the Tulane Invitational. 
In action for the first time since Nov. 2, the Irish travel to New Orleans today to kick off the spring season with the two­day tournament at the water­laden English Turn Golf and Country Club. 
The Tulane Invitational also marks the beginning of a new coaching era for Irish golf. Exactly one month after his hir­ing as new Irish head coach, Jim Kubinski will lead the team in his first competition at the new position. 
After former coach John Jasinski resigned Dec. 7 for personal reasons, Notre Dame contacted the former Duke assistant for the vacancy. Athletic director Kevin While introduced Kubinski as new coach on Jan. 28. 
For Kubinski and the Irish. competition in New Orleans begins with thirty-six holes today, followed by a single round tomorrow. 
Among the thirteen teams in the field, Ole Miss enters the Invitational on the heels of a first-place finish at the All­South Collegiate Invitational two weeks ago. The University of New Orleans captured sec­ond in its own tournament, the River City Classic. In addition, UNC-Wilmington placed second in the Feb. 14-15 UCF/Rio Pinar Intercollegiate tournament. 
The Irish, on the other hand. have gone nearly four months since last swinging in intercol­legiate competition. 
Though home to a more palatable climate for February golf than South Bend, both Southern Miss and Southeastern Louisiana also join Notre Dame in making this tournament the first of their spring season. 
Despite the disadvantage of coming off the winter break to face teams that have already gotten their swings back, the Irish have reasons to be confi­dent heading into the tourna­ment. 
By winning the Big East Championship on the Warren Golf Course last year, the 2003­04 squad was the first Irish men's golf team to qualify for NCAA post-season play since 1966. 
That success continued into this fall. when the squad po­sted a 298.67 stroke average­third best in Irish history. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Cavaliers just too tough for Irish 
ByRAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Sports \Vrirer 
If Sunday's tennis showdown proved anything, it's that national rankings mean noth­ing in a hotly-contested match. 
Playing with determination, the No. 24 Notre Dame men's tennis team took No. 2 Virginia {10-1) to the limit before falling in a 4-3 decision. 
Playing on the road for just the third time this season. the Irish {1 0-3) stayed in the match from the start. Notre Dame split two early singles matches and won the doubles point to take an early 2-1 lead. It took a gru­eling three-set singles match at the No. 2 slot to decide Virginia's narrow margin of vic­tory. 
With the match score tied 3­3, sophomore Stephen Bass and Virginia's Ryan Rizza, ranked No. 38 in the nation, played a lengthy match that ended with Rizza's 6-3, 6-7 {4-7), 6-3 win. Bass dropped the opening set but battled back in the second, setting up the crucial third set. 
Rizza jumped out to an 3-0 lead before Bass closed the gap to 4-2 and a break point in the seventh game. Bass forced Rizza to serve out the match before finally falling to the Virginia junior 6-3 in the last set. 
"Stephen Bass was the last one out on the court." Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "He was down a set and down 4-2. To his credit, he fought back very hard and won the second set in a really exciting tie­breaker. We had chances ... Stephen won some big points at the net, which is a good move for him and shows a lot of progress in his game. He lost but he played very hard and very well. lie's a guy we defi­nitely wanted out there at that point in the match." 


Although the Irish have dropped the doubles point in four of their last six matches, they came out strong against Virginia. Senior captain Brent D'Amico and sophomore Ryan Keckley posted a 9-7 victory over Virginia's duo of Rizza and Nick Meythaler. The Irish also won the pivotal doubles match at the No. 2 slot, as junior Eric Langenkamp and freshman Sheeva Parbhu upset the No. 23-ranked team of Somdev Devvarman and Treat Huey in an 8-5 decision. 
"We played really well at the No. 1 and No. 2 doubles, about as well as we've played all year," Bayliss said. "We won those two doubles and it was great to take the 2-1 lead with four matches remaining. We knew what we were up against but we still had to make the best of it." 
Notre Dame's two singles vic­tories came from the heart of their lineup, in the No. 4 and No. 5 slots. In the No. 5 slot. Sophomore Irackli Akhvlediani put the Irish on the board first while also posting the team's top individual victory. He upset Virginia's Darrin Cohen. ranked No. 36 in the nation. 7-5. 7-6 in his lirst collegiate victory over a nationally-ranked opponent. 
"They were both really good matches and we had chances in both of them." Bayliss said "Irackli played very well." 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Teatn unsatisfied with results at Purdue tneet 

Stephens, Thompson 'on bubble' to make field at NCAA meet 
By MIKE TENNANT-Sports Writer 
The Irish achieved numerous personal bests this weekend in the Boiler-Make-It Invitational at Purdue, but they left the pool disappointed. 
The meet was scheduled as an end-of-the-year goal for several younger swimmers, while also giving the swimmers on the edge of qualifying for the NCAA Championship one last chance to post a top time. Unfortunately, those in the latter group were not able to improve their chances. 
"We had some good swims." head coach Bailey Weathers said. "But I don't think we helped anyone on the bubble for NCAA's." 
Sophomore Jessica Stephens and freshman Caroline Johnson both had already posted "B" times for the NCAA Championships, but only faster "A" times are guaranteed spots in the meet. Neither used this weekend to her advantage and both swimmers remain on the bubble for the Championships. 
"For [Stephens] and [Johnson]. we'll have to wait and see. But all of them gave a great effort," Weathers said. 
Stephens has "B" times in the 200-yard individual medley and the 200 breaststroke, while Johnson already posted "B" times in the 50 and 100-yard free styles as well as in the 100 backstroke. Both swimmers were named all-conference after posting these marks in the Big East Championships. 
The meet was a success for several younger swimmers who swam personal bests in their final meet of the year. 
Freshman Georgia Steenberge posted a time in the 1650-yard freestyle that would have been fast enough to qualify for the Big East Championships last week. Sophomore Meghan Linnelli did the same in the 50 free. 
"I think that was a goal at the start of the season for them," Weathers said. "It was a big goal." 
For Steenberge, Linnelli, and several others. this was their rest-meet. Meaning it was their chance to compete with a longer period of rest beforehand. 
Contact Mike Tennant at mtennant@nd.edu 

The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates must be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, 
or fellow students. 

For a no1nination form, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu 
Nonzinations are due by Friday, March 4, 2005. 
Monday, February 28, 2005 The Observer + ADVERTISEMENT page 15 ., 
~~~============================================================================ ' 
' 
' ' 
I I 
~ l ' 
l 
Want to make some money? Want to make some friends? -· Want to make some memories? ­
Then work for The Observer ­Call Claire at 1-4542 and join us! 



OUND THE NATION 
page 16 CoMPILED FRO:'-'t 'l"HE OnsERVER'S WlRE SERVICES Monday, February 28, 2005 

MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 


I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I I 
I I I I 
I 
1 
! I 
! 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Pittsburgh at Boston College, 7 p.m, ESPN Southern Illinois at Indiana State, 7 p.m, Comcast Oklahoma at Texas, 9 p.m, ESPN Northern Iowa at Wichita State, 9 p.m, Comcast New Mexico at UNLV, midnight, ESPN 
NBA 
New Orleans at Dallas, 8:30 p.m., CST 
Associated Press 
LAWRENCE. Kan.-If this game does not ulti­mately decide the Big 12 championship, it should have. 
No. 8 Kansas shot 66 percent from the field, No. 4 Oklahoma State hit 59 percent and both old rivals played almost flawlessly in key stretches Sunday before the Jayhawks finally emerged with an 81-79 vic­tory. 
"Certainly, for me, it was an honor to coach in this game," Kansas' Bill Self said. "This will go down as one of the great ones to ever be played in this building." 
Wayne Simien had a 
career-high 32 points and Aaron Miles hit a running layup with 37 seconds to go for the Jayhawks (21-4, 11­3), who have a one-game lead over Oklahoma State (20-5, 10-4) and No. 22 Oklahoma with two games to play. 
Simien had 12 rebounds and was 1 0-of-11 from the foul line, breaking the school record with 34 con­secutive free throws as the Jayhawks snapped their first three-game losing streak in 11 years. 
"I think you could make a case that for today at least, there was not a better player in America," Self" said. 
John Lucas. one of four senior starters for Oklahoma State, hit his first nine shots but he missed a long 3-point attempt seconds before the final buzzer. 

"What a great college basketball game," Oklahoma State coach Eddie Sutton said. "When both teams play like that, it is a shame that one has to lose." 
Lucas' first miss came with 1:31 to go and the game tied at 78. With 37 seconds left. Miles. the Big 12 assists leader. scored the go-ahead basket for an 80-78 lead. 
"Christian !Moody] did a good job setting a screen." Miles said. "Dub !Simien] 
cleared out the lane and I hit the shot." 
Oklahoma State fresh­man JamesOn Curry was fouled by Moody and went to the line with 25 seconds left. He made the second free throw to make it a one-point game. Miles was fouled with 19 seconds to go and he hit the second for the 81-791ead. 
After dribbling between the circle for a few sec­onds, Lucas launched the 3-point attempt that hit the rim. 
"When it left his hand it was like it was in slow motion." Simien said. "I thought he was going to make it. lie seemed likP lw all day long." 
IN BRIEF Dynamic Toms wins Match 
Play Championship 
CARLSBAD, Calif. -David Toms played the best golf of his life, put his name in the record book with the biggest blowout in the Match Play Championship and barely broke a sweat while earning $1.3 million. 
All he lacked was an explanation. 
A major champion but hardly a juggernaut, Toms rolled through Phil Mickelson and Adam Scott to reach the semifinals, then beat Ian Poulter with the most dynamic stretch of golf ever seen at La Costa Resort. 
He found an ever higher gear Sunday in the 36-hole final against Chris DiMarco, beating him so badly that Toms caught himself rehearsing his victory speech with 11 holes left in the match. 
"I can't explain why I felt like I did all week," Toms said. "I just felt very, very comfortable with myself and the golf that was in front of me. I don't know that I've ever really felt like that." 
Toms delivered the most dominant performance in the seven-year histo­ry of this fickle tournament. winning eight out of nine holes to put away DiMarco before lunch, then pouring it on in the afternoon. Tar Heels win fifth straight, maintain ACC lead 
COLLEGE PARK, Md.-Raymond Felton made the tiebreaking layup with 19 seconds left and Sean May blocked a shot just before the buzzer as No. 2 North Carolina weathered a furious comeback bid by Maryland before escaping with an 85-83 victo­ry Sunday. 
May had 22 points and 11 rebounds for the Tar Heels, who remained alone atop the Atlantic Coast Conference with their fifth straight win. 
Jawad Williams scored 21 points to help the Tar Heels (24-3, 12-2) beat the Terrapins on the road for the first time since 2001. North Carolina remained one game ahead of Wake Forest, which defeated Virginia 90­68 earlier Sunday.

Yankees, Matsui struggle
with contract discussions 
TAMPA. Fla. -Yankees left fielder Hideki Matsui doesn't expect talks on his possible contract extension to be completed during spring training. 
Arn Tellem, Matsui's agent, and Yankees general manager Brian Cashman started negotiations Saturday. 
Matsui is due $8 million in 2005, the final season of a $21 million, three-year deal. He has a clause in his contract that requires the Yankees to put him on waivers unless a new contract is agreed to by Nov. 15. 
"Probably not going to be anything that's going to happen prior to the beginning of the season," Matsui said through an interpreter Sunday. "My original plan was to play through my three years and then decide where to go from there. That was my original plan when I came here, and that still is." 
Monday, February 28, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
team." During Borton and 
Shooters

Seniors 
Battcast's careers, Notre Dame has reached the NCAA 
continued from page 20

continued from page 20 
Tournament three times, with tlwir four-year journey a fourth certain for this sea­togPther. Borton and Batteast son, and played in two Sweet 
ing out and doing everything have done just that-acting 16's. Thoy've led the Irish to a 
they could to make their last as the catalysts in rPLurning 24-4 record in 2004-05, posi­
game a fun one." Notn~ Damn to collt~ge basket­tioned the team for a high 
The Irish struggled early, hall's elite dass. sned in the NCM Tournament 
giving up five 3-pointers in the "They buill our program and have Notre Dame legiti· 
l'irst half as they fell behind hack to when~ it was wlwn matoly contending for a 
12-6 early. After Notre Dame tlwy came in as l'reshrnan. national title. 
fought bar.k to go up six, the which was a monumental Four years after beginning 
Mountaineers went on a 9-0 task," Irish coach MufTnt their careers in the silhouette 
run to reclaim a 28-25 lead McGraw said. "That was of championship players and 
with 6:29 to play in the first something. for freshmen to a championship team, Borton 
half after a jumper by Meg conw in and have that burden and Batteast leave Notre 
Bulger. on tht~m and tlwy did a really Dame knowing they set their 
But Notre Dame wasn't fin­gn~at job getting to senior own footprints in the history 
ished, as the Irish went on a yt~ar." books. With just one regular 
13-0 run, led by Borton's six Appropriately on Senior season game remaining, 
points, two rebounds and one Day, Borton and Battcast led Notre Dame's players and 
block to go up by 10 points and good looks at the basket. behind No. 9 Hutgers. The the Irish to victory. Borton fans will look toward the two 
put the game away. "They made it difl'icult by Irish finish the regular season had 18 points, nine rebounds seniors for the performance 
"I thought that was huge," switching on everything," Tuesday night on the road and five blocks, while and leadership needed to be 
McGraw said. "We got good Bulger said. "We just had against Seton IIall (14-12, 6-9 Batteast added 15 points and successful in postseason play. 
momentum coming into the nothing on offense by not mov­Big East). Then they go to four rebounds in the 82-57 Borton and Batteast hope 
locker room." ing." Hartford. Conn., for the Big win over West Virginia. Like and expect to meet those high 
The second half was all Meanwhile, Borton narrowly East Tournament. so many other games during expectations. They hope and 
Notre Dame. The Irish went on missed a double-double with NOTHE DAME H2,a 10-4 run to start the half nine rebounds and five blocks,their careers, the duo was expect to challenge for a WEST VIHGINIA 57behind two Iayups from while shooting 8-for-9 from thesimply too much for tlwir national title. And they hope at the JOYCE CENTEH 

Borton, and were on their way field. Notre Dame point guard had no answers for either. plays at the key moments. 
opposition. Tlw Mountaineers and expect to make the key 
to a blowout victory. Notre Megan Duffy had a double­NOTRE DAME (24-4, 12-:l) 
Dame outscored West Virginia double with 12 points and 10 Ball!mst 6·14 3·5 15. l.aY..rr 3·6 2·2 !!.
And while fans have No matter tlw outcome of 
Borton !!-9 2-5 1!!. Duffy 4-(J 1·2 12. (;ray 
46-22 in the paint and the assists, just one game removedeht~nrnd the two for their out­this season. McGraw knows 

1-2 1·1 3. Gaines 2-3 4-4 8. Allt•n 4·!! 0-0 
Irish out-rebounded the from a double-digit turnover

standing game performances, life won't be easy without 
8. Powers 0-0 0·0 0, Tsipis 1·1 ().() 2, it's been the intangibles­Borton and Batteast next sea­
Mountaineers 39-30. performance at Hutgers. D'Amico 1·2 0-0 2. Erwin 2·4 2·2 6. the unseen things-that son. 
"We're starting to look "I lost about a half a week's 

WEST VIHGINIA (16-10, 7-1!)
sharp," McGraw said. "We're sleep over it," Duffy said of herBorton and Batteast do to "It's going to be very difli· 

Sanni 6·11 1-3 13. Bulgl'r 4-19 0·1 9.
starting to peak." game at Rutgers. "I watchedmake the Irish successful. cult to replace both of them," 

Paige 5-14 5-5 16, Sowho 6·12 0-2 16. "They've done so much she said. 
Notre Dame shot 8-for-11 the film twice and I learned a Colfl 0-2 0·0 0, Glusko 0-0 0·0 0, McGrr more than statistics," Just like four years ago. 
from the field in the first 8:15 lot from it, and I know that I 0-0 0-0 0. Lre 0-1 0-0 0. McGraw said. "I think just the 
of the second half, a scorching don't want that to happen 
1st 2nd Total
72 percent. again."

enthusiasm and the chemistry The views expressed in this 
NOTRE DAME 31! 44 1!2 -a lot of it has to do with column are those of the 
"They just dominated us the For West Virginia, Sherell West Virginia 31 26 57 Teresa and .Jackie. They're so author and not necessarly 
second half," Mountaineer Sowho finished with 16 points 

3-point goals: Notrl' DamP 3-6 (BattmL~t
coach Mike Carey said. and five rebounds, includingunselfish and they work hard those of The Observer. 

0-1, Duffy 3-4. Allen O·lJ, W<"st Virginia
Notre Dame held Bulger, the four 3-pointers, all in the !lrst

and all the things you need a Contact Joe 1/ettler at 
7-20 (BulgHr 1-6. Paige 1·3, Sowho 4-ll. leader to do, they do for our jhettler@nr;l.edu 
Big East's leading scorer, to half. Yolanda Paige, the Colr 0-1. Ow1ms 1-2). Fouled out: Col.-. 
just nine points on 4-for-19 nation's leading passer fin­Hebounds: Notre Dame 39 (Gainos 9. Borton 9). West Virginia 30 (Bulger (,)
shooting. ller season average ished with just five assists. 

Assists: Notrr l>arne 24 (Duffy 10). West
Finley, you 
coming into the game was 20.5 four below her average, but 

Virginia 14 (Paigl' 5). Total fouls: NotrP points per game, but Notre had 16 points. Dame 13. West Virginia 15. 
Dame switched on screens in With the win, Notre Dame is 

its man-to-man defense, pre­tied for second in the Big East Contact Heather Van Hoegarden 
venting her from getting any with No. 11 Connecticut. at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
are the sparklet in our lives. Be 
,sure to reach 
I 
for the stars 



I on your 21st! -Your Many Lovers 
We J)o Mondays Like No 1Piace Else! 


•' 

Enjoy a double order of chicken. sfeak or combo fajifas (enoueh for fwo) for jus+ $11!* 

MltJ.IAWAI<A 
4810 Grape Rd. 271-1330 
"Offt.r vahd evt.ry Monday 11 a.m to clo15t. 



""Let the children cmne to tne. Do not hinder then1. The kingdon1 of God belongs to those such as these." (Mt 19: 14) 
vocation.nd.edu 
ANSWER~ 
THE CALL\(!:;/ 

page 18 Monday, February 28, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish top Volunteers to end -weekend slide 

By RYAN DUFFY  
Sports Writer  
Though most of the weekend  
didn't go  as planned, Notre  
I  Dame proved once again they still have the talent to go out  
~ i I  with a bang. The Irish opened the Palm Springs Classic with four losses  
[  on Friday and Saturday, but came back on Sunday to post a  
~ ~  5-2 upset win  over No.  5/6  
f  Tennessee. It was the third time  
1  this season that Notre Dame  
!  had knocked off a nationally ranked team, with wins over  
No. 21 South Florida and No. 19  
Florida in the GRU Classic earli­ 
I i  er in the year. The Irish handed Tennessee their first loss of the tournament thanks in large part to a three­run homer from junior Meghan  
Ruthrauff in the third inning.  
Heather Booth pitched well  
against the Lady Vols to earn  
her third victory of the year.  
The loss was only Tennessee's  
second in the last 18 games,  
and improved the Irish record  
to 5-6. Tennessee is the highest­ 
ranked team Notre Dame has  
defeated since April 23, 2002,  
when they took down No. 4  
Nebraska 3-2 in Lincoln.  
The win served as an impor­ 
tant recovery for the Irish, who  
were looking to rebound from  
losing the first four games of the  
tournament. including a rough  
2-1 loss to Arizona State (11-2)  
the previous night.  
After starting off the tourna­ 
ment with three straight losses,  
coach Deanna Gumpf decided to  
change things up by switching  

her defensive lineup back to the 2004 starting team. Sara Schoonaert moved from second base to shortstop, Stephanie Brown moved from right to sec­ond base, where she was replaced by Nicole Wicks in her first start of the season and Mallorie Lenn moved behind the plate after playing the first nine games of the year as the desig­nated hitter. 
The switch sparked the Irish defense, allowing them to turn their second double play of the year and allowing only one error. Unfortunately for Notre Dame, their one error came at a most inopportune time. Leading 1-0 heading into the sixth, third basemen Liz Hartmann bobbled a grounder trying to throw out the Sun Devils' leadoff hitter. Arizona State's Valerie Sevilla, the next batter up, slammed a two-run homer than turned out to be the game-winner. 
Despite allowing the deciding home run, senior Steffany Stenglein kept Notre Dame in the game, getting out of trouble when she needed to and giving up eight hits while striking out five. After allowing the sixth­inning home run, she struck out two batters and got a groundout to keep the Irish within a run. 
Notre Dame took an early lead in the contest when Megan Ciolli crushed a home run in the third inning. Ciolli, a Player of the Year candidate, is now hit­ting .355 with a home run, six RBis, and four stolen bases for the season. 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy1@nd.edu 

Life at Litly 
.·• 
Eli Li II y and Co rnpany lnfor mati on Session 
Careers m Rnanoe 
.All rra:=~jors: •.1.1elcome 
tv1arch 1. 2005 • 700 PM De 8 a rtolo Hall. Room 113 
Uly I:S looldrc;a "Dr Jl..nlor:S ln~l'l!!:S ~ In Corp01"2!11 ~ FI~ In~ rre hi~ 

in double figures, led by Arron Afflalo's 17 points.
Bruins 

UCLA forward Dijon Thompson struggled with his
continued from page 20 

shot but ended up with 16 points and 10 rebounds. 
screens. Chris Quinn led the Irish "We obviously have to get with 17 points, while Chris better before we play Rutgers. Thomas and Torin Francis 
We talked about that, being bet­ter defensively, 
"We came out flat, 
and we've been 
especially on the
pretty good defensively. defensive end. 1b "I can't answer 
their credit, they 
that right now." 
moved the ball and
Meanwhile. the Irish offensive got open looks. " flow never got going as the 
Chris Quinn 
Bruins built a 
Irish guard 
15-point half­time lead -the largest halftime 

were the only other Irish play­ers to end up in double figures. 
Brey went deep into his bench playing nine, with eight seeing at least 10 minutes of playing time. Notes: 
+ Thomas became the third player in college basket­
deficit the Irish have faced this season. Notre Dame's out­side shooters had problems getting open looks in the first half en route to shooting 2-of­11 on 3-pointers during the first 20 minutes. 
The Bruins extended that lead to a high-water mark of 59-39 with 9 minutes, 59 sec­ball history to accumulate 2,000 points and 800 assists in his career. His SOOth assist came on a Francis dunk in the second half. 

"I really don't have any thoughts about it. It is what it is. It's something to be proud of, more proud of if you get the win," Thomas said. "I 
onds remaining on a 3-pointer from Brian Morrison. The "We obviously have 
Irish implement­to get better before 
ed a full-court 
we play Rutgers."
press after that 
and tried to get 
back into the Mike Brey 
game. The press Irish head coach 
forced some 
steals, but the 
Irish were never think it's a good achievement. I don't know if it's 

a  milestone  at  
point guard  to  
look to get to.  

''I'm in the company of two other great guards. and it's an honor to be up there with them." 
able to get closer than eight. Syracuse alum Sherman The Bruins had six players Douglas and Oregon State 
Take it nON. 
To keep ywr txxly healthy. 
Take it every day. 

alum Gary Payton are the other two players to accom­plish the feat. 
+ Notre Dame football coach Charlie Weis gave a halftime speech during Sunday's game geared toward the Irish student body. It was the first time Weis publicly talked to the students. 
"This isn't about a bunch of egomaniacs anymore," Weis said. "This is about being on the same team. and that's what.. we're trying to start here. 
Sunday was "Junior Day" for tlw football program as Weis said 85 juniors came to South Bend. 
UCLA 75, NOTRE DAME 65 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTHE DAME (16-9, 8-6) 

Corrwttl' 0-1 0-0 0. !'rands 5-7 0-2 10. Thomas 4-17 0-0 10. Quinn 7-l'J 1-2 17. !'all' 1-6 4-5 7. lsrPal 1·3 3-4 5. Conwtt 
1-2 0-0 2. Latimorl' 4-5 0-3 8. Cartl'r 2-:l 0-0 6. 
UCLA (16-9, 9-71 

Thompson 4-15 5-11 16. Shipp 2-3 0-0 6. Fey 5-10 0-0 10. A!Tlalo 4-5 6-!l 17. Farmar 5-10 0-1 12. Morrison 4-9 0-0 
12. Hollins 0-0 2-2 2, McKinm•y 0-0 0-0 
0.  
NOTRE DAME UCLA  1st 26 41  2nd Total :{9 65 :!4 75  

3-Point Goals: NotrP Damn 7-22 (CartPr 2-2. Quinn 2-7. Thomas 2-7. Falls 1-5. CornnttP 0-1). UCLA 14-23 (Morrison 4­7. Afflalo :l-3. Thompson 3-H. Shipp 2-2. Farmar 2-3). Fouled Out: Non" Hebounds: :'\oll"P DamP 34 (Francis HI. UCLA 42 (Thompson 101. Assists: ~otrP Dame Ill (Thomas 7). CCL\ 20 (Fitrmar 7). Total Fouls: NotrP Danw Ifl. UCLA 
15. Terhnicals: :'\otrP DamP ll~>nch. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

You need 400rrcg .lrnicrogrMeJ or 0.4 (milliQ:ram) d:rily. 
Take it this way. An easy way to re sure yw are gettirg en..gh is to take a rrul ti-vitaru.n or folic tid suwlerralt. YCAJ can also get it bj ea.t~ a cer-eal tlet is 100% forufie:l. mth fol.ic<dd. 
Take our v.Drd for it. If there's arry chance yD.J caJld b:care pregnant, :yoJ need to get EnQJgh folic acid fNerY day. It has l:Ee1 proven to prevent sencos blrth defects v.Jtei tdkal l::efore ptegnancy. Am it trBY als:J protect yoJ fran heart disease arrl certa1..n cao.:ers. 
"lb firrl OJt IO:J>:e, cllil us at 1-800-433-0746 rr l-866-275-1274 TTY/TOO or visit rur ~ite 
a: W#H. in.gav/isdhtprcgrarrs/folicacid. 
~s~~~es~~ ~~i:CV~~~~. ~~1 u~ 61id~ili~~~ 

Monday, February 28, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 36 "_ Lama Ding 59 Tape deck 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Chelsea Clinton. 25; HowanJ Hesscmau, Dong" (1961 button 65; Elizabeth Taylor. 73; Joanue Woodward. 75
1 Jazz style nonsense hit) so Ham it up 
6 Reclusive Happy Hirthday: Lei everyone see how passionately you feel ahoul your beliefs. actress Greta 61 Asian holiday direction and lifestyle. Once you walk the walk. everyone will look up to you for
37 Nullifies 

taking the positiou that suited you best. You arc only a stone's throw away from
11 Sandwich initials 38 Author Ferber 62 Cosmetician 
aciJieving your goals. Personal validation will be yours. Your numbers arc 10. 14. 21.
Lauder

14 Tehran native 39 Mrs., in Madrid 24,33. 39 63 Dork
15 Perfect 40 Like the 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): It will be a waste of time to get angry with someone. weather around Back off and get things done instead, and you will feel hettcr about yourself and leave
16 Karel Capek 
lighthouses, DOWN a good impression on someone wl10 has been watching to see how you will ha111.lle
play 
often yourself today.*** 17 Rooming house TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You really must take a little time out to reorganilc and
1 Baby's mealtime offering 
41 Open, as a garment redefine. Wlwtever you haven't been happy with in thc past must be put to rest so that package you can start anew. Someone you like will give you thc go-ahead. An opportunity will
2 Afore 

19 Whiz be present. * * * 
42 Ed of "The 

3 Naughty GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): You'd he surprised who you can meet through clmrrh
20 Tints 
Honeymooners" or a function you attend today. A trip to a new destination will inspire you to do
4 _case-by­

21 Tasteless something you put on the bark bumer a long time ago. A change to your appearance 
44 Carve case basis 
will result in compliments. **''** 

23 Large monkeys 
45 Golf attendants 5 Tiny puncture CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Not everyone will be thinking tl1e same way you are 27 Happy-face today. Give everyone the option to do as he or she pleases ant.l spare yourself a lui L>l
6 Scoffs 

symbols 47 Prayer book grief. For those who arc like-mindet.l, offer an incentive that will ensure you will gel 7 Fusses the help you need. *" 
48 Country

29 Peter of LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): A fnendly get-togetlJcr or a short tnp to VI>II old fnends will
bumpkins a Stephen of "The 

"Lawrence of lead to something quite inspirational. Someone from your past will remlllt.l you of Arabia" 49 Et ~(and Crying Game" your dreams. hopes and w(shes from days gone by. Take a chance and do something out of character. **** 
others) 9 Drinker's place30 Cuban dance 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sl•pt. 22): Your plans should be in place and ready 10 execute. Do music: Var. 50 Part of a college 10 Antiquated a final check to make sure you haven't left out something illlportant. Every detail will contribute to how well you will do in the future.***
31 Make up (lor) e-mail address 11 Drilling tool 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Not everyone will understand what it is you arc trying 32 Rent 51 Like a native 12 Like a rabbit's to do. Take baby steps to ensure that you get everyone's supp011. Don't argue; it will
37 Cast a ballot 44 "The proof_ 52 Breakfast

foot, supposedly only slow you down and make others lose patience.***
33 _ King Cole 58 Bro's sibling the pudding" drinks, briefly 
38 Letter SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take time out to have fun with friends or falllily. You
13 Deuce toppers 

owe it to yourself to put all your trials and tribulations on the hack bumcr. You will
accompanier: 53 No longer
45 Toothpaste

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 18 Sand hill Abbr. working: Abbr. have a fresh new perspective on old problems once you've had a chanre to t.l1stance brand yourself. *** 
22 Priest's robe 

40 Toy loved by 54 Mercedes SAGITTARHJS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Partnerships will be what count today. Bend over 23 Wild swine dogs competitor backwards to make everyone around you feel comfortable. Diplomacy will bring good
46 War hero Murphy results. If you become demanding, expect to have people tum on you. ••••
24 of roses 55 Fish eggs

41 Without CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): When it comes to emotional matters, you may he 25 Economic cycle assistance 47 Dish 56 Summer on the way out of line. Stay calm and find out what's really happening before you decide to make critical comments. Listening to what others have to say will allow you more
Seine
26 Mrs. Chapiin 43 Wordsworth 49 Suffix with 
time to assess the situation. ** 

creation accept 57 Belle of a ball AQUARiliS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): An opportunity to take pan in a function will lead to an interesting chance meeting. Someone special will attract your attention. Your 
27 Disreputable 
28 Rumple 

love life will take a tum in your favor. ••••• 30 King's time on For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take care of personal business. Getting involved more credit card, 1-800-814-5554. actively with an older member of your family will bring you added wisdom. Look
the throne 

over important papers. Pamper yourself. ***
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 32 Apple's apple crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.

and Chevron's Birthday Baby: You have the capacity lo make things happen. You are passionate, chevron Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 intense and in tune with what you want and how to get it. You are adaptable and past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). engaging.34 Win by_ 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 

C/u:('k out Eugenia's Wl:'h site.\· ar a.\·troath•if·e.t·om ami l'ttgt•nialaJt.l'Oitl.
___,___,___,___, 35 Levy imposer solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

DILBERT 
WALLY, I WANT YOU 
TO ATTEND A MEETING 
FOR ME ... ITS IN 
ELBONIA. 

PEANUTS 
"If you really loved me:· she said, "you'd 
FIRST, YOU'LL NEED TO TAKE A CLASS ON THEIR CULTURE SO YOU WON'T ACCIDEN­TALLY OFFEND THEM. 
So he bought her 
SCOTT ADAMS 
THIS GESTURE EITHER MEANS "HELLO" OR 'TD LIKE TO SEE YOUR MITTENS ON MY BED­ROOM FLOOR, BABY." 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
It was not too long
before the dog wished 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles. one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RUSUY 

rJ 
1 
C2005 Tribune Media Services. Inc All Rights Reserved 
DOTUB 
j
I I r []

tNYWIRT 
WHEN TDURING 
GERMANY, THE 
UL..C.ER SUFFERER
J [J b 
TOOK A--­
www.jumble com 

Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: ( FOR THE
I I I ] 'I I I I I ]" 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I 
Jumbles: GIVEN CARGO DAHLIA CLERGY Saturday's Answer: What the detectives did when they spotted the credit card thieves -"CHARGED" 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year .. 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 

Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS

Monday, February 28, 2005 
page 20 
-MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Trouble's Bruin 


N 0 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Senior Day success for Irish 
Borton and Batteast win their final game at Joyce Center 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sporrs Ediror 
In their last' game at the Joyce Center, Teresa Borton and Jacqueline Batteast didn't let their emotions get the best of them -or for that matter, West Virginia. 
Borton had 18 points to lead the Irish and Batteast added 15 as the only two remaining sen­iors of what started as a class of six led No. 10 Notre Dame to an 
Senior duo finish Notre Dame home careers as winners 
After post-game interviews 
Teresa 
Borton walked back into the Joyce Center arena. quiet­ly moved to the side of 
the other 

players and Joe Hettler began signing -----­autographs Sports Writer 
for fans. 
FOOTBALL 

Powlus tnay return for front-office position 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 

Former Irish signal caller Hon Powlus could replace Jimmy Gonzales as din~ctor of person­nel development for the Irish football team, according to Bluandgold.com and. Irisheyes.com on Sunday . 
Powlus would take over for Gonzales, who left to accept a job with Oklahoma State shortly after Irish head coach Charlie Weis replaced Tyrone Willingham. 
As director of player develop­ment, Powlus would be respon­sible for recruiting administra­tion and player development for the Irish, along with additional duties associated with the team. 
"From what I have learned talking to past personnel din~c­tors, the job is primarily an organizational one," Mike Frank of Irisheyes.com said. "This is the person who's responsible for organizing travels for the recruits, junior davs, campus visits and maybe even also col­lecting transcripts and phone numbers. 
Powlus is one of a handful of recent former Irish standouts that have discussed the possibil­ity of returning to tlw srhool in some capacity. inducting fornwr Irish receiv<>r Tim Brown and t>x-lrish running back .IPronw Bettis. But elected to remain involved in professional football. 
Powlus was one of the most highly recruited quarterbacks in the country when he signed with Notre Dame as a freshman in 1993. A broken collarbone post­poned the start of Pow Ius' career with the team, but the quarter­back assumed the starting role in 1994 and played until 1997. 
By the time of his final game in an Irish uniform, Powlus held the Notre Dame career marks for passes attempted (969). passes completed (558), yardage (7,602) and touchdown passes (52). 
But despite the statistical accolades, Powlus and his teams had a difficult time maintaining consistency. During his can~er. the Irish amassed a 30-17-1 record, and did not contend for a national championship. 
Powlus was signed by the Philadelphia Eagles and spent several years in that organiza­tion, but never saw the field in a regular-season NFL game. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Since last season's disap­pointing NIT appearance, Mike Brey and his team have emphasized defense. 
It let them fatten up on the non-conference cupcakes dur­ing the early-season shooting woes. It kept them in games throughout the rugged Big East schedule. It put them in g:>sition to make a run at the IICM tournament. 
Now it's failing them at the wrong time of the season. 
Getting blown out on its home court from the opening tip, Notre Dame never held a lead and fell behind by as many as 20 points in the sec­ond half in UCLA's 75-65 win at the Joyce Center Sunday afternoon. 
"We have to concentrate on the defensive end. We did that early in the season when we weren't shooting well," Chris Quinn said. "We came out flat, especially on the defensive end. To their credit, they moved the ball and got open looks." 
At Connecticut, the Irish (16­
9) played their worst defensive game of the season -giving up a season-high 88 points to the Huskies. On Sunday, the Irish let the Bruins (16-9) shoot the lights out as UCLA made 14-of-23 3-pointers. 
The Bruins wete able to shoot such a high percentage from behind the arc by getting into a comfortable offensive flow that saw their outside shooters get wide-open looks coming off screens. 
"Fourteen 3-point shots kind of staggers you. that's not something they've been doing, but I give them credit," Brey said. "I thought defensively, I was disappointed we weren't guarding the ball screen and guarding shooters off stagger screens. 
"We obviously have to get better before we play Rutgers. We talked about that, being better defensively, and we've been pretty good defensively. 
"I can't answer that right now." 
Meanwhile. the Irish offen­sive flow never got going as the Bruins built a 15-point halftime lead -the largest 
MATIESON!The Observer 
Jackie Batteast, left, and Teresa Borton battle for a rebound during Notre Dame's 82-57 win over West Virginia. 
82-57 rout of West Virginia McGraw said. "I thought our Saturday afternoon. two seniors did a great job com­"I was really pleased with the game today," Irish coach Muffet see SHOOTERS/page 17 
A few moments later, Notre Dame's other senior, Jacqueline Batteast, emerged from the tun­nel and was immediately swarmed by young boys and girls armed with pens and Irish memorabilia. 
That's how it's been the past four years -Borton in the shadows, Batteast in the spot­light. The former doing the little things, making the unnoticed contributions and the latter scoring, rebounding and ulti­mately developing into one of the greatest in program history. 
The combination has worked.· Entering the program in 2001­2002-the season after Notre Dame's national championship -the duo had the unappealing challenge of somehow replacing five graduating players. includ­ing All-American Ruth Riley, and sustaining Notre Dame as a top-tier program. Through 
see SENIORS/page 17 
Notre Dame lacks a sense of urgency as season comes to close 
It is difficult to qualify a non­conference loss to a top-50 RPI team as a "bad loss." Even on Sunday. Notre Dame eventually found an effective lineup and showed signs of life down the stretch. 
While the loss to UCLA docs not affect Notre Dame's post­season sta­tus. tlw 10­point defeat does show that these Irish lack a sense of urgency in one of the most cru­cial segments of the season. 
This week, Notre Dame knew they had only three opponents left on the regular season 


Pat Leonard 
Associate Sports Hdilor 
see URGENCY/page 12 
en 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
MEN'S GOlf
PGA TOUR 

MEN~S LACROSSE 
BASEBAll
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
w
tm-
c.,) Kansas 81 
Toms takes Match 
Tulane 

Notre Dame 14,
Irish 7, 
Dalton 2,
z Oklahoma St. 79 
Play title 
Invitational 
Hawkeyes 0 

Penn State 6 
No re Dame 1 

No. 10 Irish handily
-After losing three 
David Toms beat 
Notre Dame looks to 
Coming off a three-
The Flyers take two of 
~ 
=5 
straight games, the 

defeated No. 21 Nittany
Chris DiMarco 6 and 5 
kick off the spring sea-
match losing streak, 
three from the Irish in a
cc 
Jayhawks rebound with 
for 1.3-million-dollar 
son on the right foot in 
Notre Dame shut out 
weekend series, includ-

Lions Sunday to start 
= 
a win over the Cowboys. 
winner's purse. 
New Orleans. 
Iowa Sunday. 
ing awild one Sunday. 
the year. 
a. !:i 
en 
page 16 
page 16 
page 14 
page 13 
page 12

page 13 






