
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 47 THURSDAY, NOVEMBER3, 2005 
Anxiety grows amidst donn thefts 
Students caught off­guard by robberies in multiple dorms 
Hy MADDIE HANNA 
Assmiat~ Nt·ws Editor 

A growing wavn of concern about thdt and tn~spassing is swnnping campus as polien, rec­tors and stuchmL-; LPstily to a dis­turbing incroasP in rrinws rom­mittPd this yPar by pnopln ouL-;ide Noln• IJamP. 
UnlockPd doors, stohm items and suspicious sightings have lml to studtmt unn~st. leading tho res­idnnts of o1w nwn's dorm to 
Alleged assault reported 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
~aint Mary's Editor 

A Saint Mary's student rPportnd shn was sPxually assaultnd in a Notre Damn rPsidPnre hall this past week­t•nd. Coll1~gl' officials said Wnchwsday. 
Tlw student is acquainted with hnr alll•gpd assailant. a r r ord i n g to a c r i nw a I e r t postnd on the Saint Mary's honw Wnh silo Tunsday al'tnr­noon. 
IJirtH'tor of marknting com­munications Nick Farmer dtwlinnd to spneify the day or limn of tlw allegnd assault or wlwtlwr llw allognd assailant was a Not.n~ Damn student. lin also dtH'Iinnd to spedfy in what dorm thn allngnd assault 
sec ASSAULT/page 4 
fACULTY SENATE 

prominently display their outmgn. 
"It seems like some people an~ targnting us this yoar," Zahm me­tor Fatlwr Dan Parrish said. adding rnsichmL-; are so inllamt~d that they have posted signs in tho hallways and bathrooms warning of mw frnqwmt intruder. 
Zahm is just one nxamplo of a campus-wido trend noticNI by A-;sistant Dirnctor of Notrn Dame Seeurity/Policn (NDSPI Phil Johnson. 
'Tm eoncernod," Johnson said. "We've had snveral burglaries, a few arrests alrnady I this year!." 
In both rneent cases with sus­poet descriptions, thn perpetra­
see THEFT/page 9 

STUDENT SENATE 
Building resolution reviewed 
By MADDIE HANNA 
Associate News Editor 
Ideas regarding plans to expand or supplement the LaPortuno Student Center -which many studnnts complain is too cramped -swirled at Wednesday night's Student Snnate meeting. 
The Besidenee Lif'n com­mittee, chairnd by Mark Seiler, presented findings 
from meetings and  snna­ 
tor-cond ueted  focus  
groups,  as  well  as  a  

"Resolution in Support ol' a Discussion of an Expanded Student Center," ultimatnly sent baek to the committne for revision. 
The issue surfaced al'ttw Vice Presidnnt ol' Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman spoke to senators at the bnginning of thn 
see SENATE/page 6 




Insurance premiu111s increase substantially 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer  
l>irPrlor  of  human  
rnsourcns  l>nnisn  Murphy  
prPsnntnd  thn ovnrview of  

200(, lwncd'ils to members of t h n Fa<~ til t. y S e n ate Wednnsday, revt>aling eonsis­tl~nt, doublt1-digit insurancn tHem i u m i111~rnasns across tlw hoard. 
Somn nwmlwrs exprnssnd clispleasurn with the num­hnrs. citing a disparity 
bntween increases in insur­anee payments and increases in salaries for faculty and staff. But associate vice pres­ident of human resourcns Hobert Me()uade insisted hn is looking for input on ways to improve thn situation. 
"Tiw big issue is consider­ing changing people's prnmi­ums basod on ineome," Me()uadn said. "We will con­sider anything. At thn end of the day, all I can tell you is 
see FACULTY/page 6 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
University celebrates Rosa Parks 
Hy KATE ANTONACCI 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Damn's tribute to tho latn civil rights kon Hosa Parks was one that began and ended in song. 
"Lnad mo. guide nw along tlw way. For if' you load nw. I See Also 
cannot stray," "Rosa Parks Chandra honored at
Johnson, asso­ciate director funeral" of campus 
page 5
ministry and dirnctor ol' eross-eullural ministry, sang at the opening ol' Wndnosday's remembrance sorvie1~ in LaFortune Ball room. 
Johnson, who spoko about Parks' donp l'aith and commit­ment to serving God, lnd alton­does in singing Notre Damn's "Alma Mater" and "Wn Shall Overcome" at tho condusion of thn sorvieo. 
Tho snrviee was lwld on tho day Parks was laid to rnst at Greater Gracn Temple Churrh in Detroit, Mieh., tho eity whnrn sho dind Oct. 24 at age 92. 
"Tiw bnaut.iful reality of this tributn is that students dnvnl­
oJH~d the eon cnpt, and Llwy called us togothor ... to honor thn lift~ of a woman they know al'f'nct11d their lives," .Johnson said. "You will makn a diflimmcn bncausn it's tho right thing to do. You must. We must." 
The servicn was held to eoln­bratn Parks and toll th11 story of tho "motlwr of tho civil rights movmnont," senior Ericka Smith, prnsidtHlt of tho Notre Dame chaptnr of tlu~ NAACP. said. 
"llistory is only important in terms of how wn ehoosn to rnnwmhnr things," shn said. 
sec PARKS/page 6 


Comps exemplify arduous work 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 
News Writer 
It's that time of ynar again, when snniors around campus at Saint Mary's bncome scaren. Not bocause of the imminent frigid weather for which South Bend is notori­ous, but because of rapidly approaching dun dates for many of their senior compre­hensive projects. 
As a culmination of their career at eollegn, students are required to complnte a comprehensive project with varying requirements, dnpending on their major of' 
see COMPS/page 4 page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Quizzical quiz• 
In an apparent attempt to help high school-aged girls make a great choice in a higher educational institution, CosmoGirl! has posted a College Guide on its Web site for the past several weeks. 
Included in the Megan O'Neil fragments . of advice is mention 
Saint Mary's
of women's col­
Editor
leges accompanied by a picture of a group of sweet-looking girls gathered in a cozy room. 
"What do Hillary Clinton, Madeleine Albright and Cathie Black (the head of CosmoGIRL! and a bunch of other magazines!) have in common?" the site asks enthusiastically. "They went to an all-women's college! Find out if you should, too." 
It then invites visitors to the site to click on a link to a four-question quiz to determine if indeed you should con­sider a women's college. 
"Does having boys in your classes keep you from doing your best work?" it begins. "Do you think that your school's clubs don't provide enough opportunities for girls like you?" it eontinues. "At college, are you willing to limit your chances of meeting guys mainly to off-campus activities?" It then wraps up with my personal favorite-"Are you are lesbian? If not, are you comfortable around lesbians?" 
It is no wonder the Saint Mary's admissions office struggles to construct a class of 400 each year. One careless person such as Marty Nemko, the author of this quiz, can erase the work of an office full of diligent recruiters with four brief questions. 
He might as well have tagged it "Want to hear some reasons not to attend a women's college?" Or maybe "Want to affirm your decision not to apply to a women's college?" Or even "Some good insults for women's col­leges students and alumnae." 
Really, considering Nemko is a "College and Career Counselor" one would think he would have a little more educated perspective on women's colleges and the experiences they offer their students. 
The contradictions are obvious. Neither Hillary Clinton nor Madeleine Albright, two of the most powerful and accomplished women in American his­tory, seemed to have suffered much from their limited chances to meet guys. And neither of them are lesbians as far as I know. 
And Cathie Black, what's her excuse? Apparently she graduated from such an institution. But perhaps she was too busy choosing the next 'hunk of the month' to notice what low quality product was running under her magazine's name. 
You might wonder why I care what some stupid quiz, squeezed between Neutrogena face wash ads and printed by a publication I outgrew nearly a decade ago, has to say about all­women's education. 
I care because it perpetuates stereo­types -stereotypes I heard from my high school classmates when I seleeted Saint Mary's three years ago. Stereotypes I continue to hear, unfor­tunately, from students from other institutions today. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, November 3, 2005 QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU WRITING YOUR SENIOR COMP. ON? 





Danielle Lerner  Cammie Johnston  Ginger Francis  Jasmin Abbatiello  Jess Eaton  Kim Zigler  
senior Opus Hall  senior Opus Hall  senior Opus Hall  senior Opus Hall  senior Holy Cross Hall  senior Opus Hall  
"/am writing a very long but  "National League of  "Literature review in  "Racial and ethnic  "Student teaching first  "Strategic case analysis for  

enjoyable Nursing Exam. " psychology on stereotypes in 
,,

mystery story. the complexity humor, in oftrauma and particular the coping Dave Chappelle mechanisms show. " following sexual assault." 

can buy a house in a trendy 
Denver neighborhood that 
comes complete with a 
bride. 
Deborah Hale, 48, has 
placed an ad on eBay offer­
ing to sell her home in the 
Washington Park area to a 
compatible man who wants 
to spend his life with her. 
She also has her own Web 
site outlining the deal. 
''I'm looking for my soul mate," Hale told the Rocky Mountain News Tuesday. She did not immediately return a telephone message 'left at her home Wednesday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Man glued to toilet seat sues Home Depot 
BOULDER, Colorado -A hardware retailer Home Depot has found itself in a sticky situation, defending a lawsuit filed by a man who claims the chain's Louisville store ignored his cries for help after he fell victim to a prank and was glued to a toilet seat. 
Bob Dougherty, 57, of Nederland, said he became stuck to a bathroom toilet seat on which somebody had smeared glue on Oct. 30, 2003, and felt "tremen­dous panic" when he real­ized he was stuck. 
"They left me there, going through all that stress," Dougherty told The (Boulder) Daily Camera. "They just let me rot." 
His lawsuit, filed Friday said Dougherty was recov­ering from heart bypass surgery at the time and thought he was having a heart attaek. A store employee who heard him calling for help informed the head derk via radio, but the head clerk "believed it to be a hoax," the lawsuit said. 
Woman puts home, hand­in-marriage up for sale 
DENVER-For $600,000, a 40-to 60-year-old man 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI :::1: 
!C( 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
~ 
<C 
(,) 

0 
HIGH 69 HIGH 65 HIGH 69 HIGH 64
-I 
LOW 52 LOW 50 LOW 44 LOW 51 
grade." Nike." 
IN BRIEF 

Ana Garcia Rodicio, visiting fellow at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, will present a lecture titled "Post-Genocide Transitional Justice: The Process of Cambodia in Dialogue with Bosnia and Rwanda" at 4:15 
p.m. today at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Graphic designer Michael Beirut will give a lecture at the Suite Museum of Art today at 
7:30 p.m. entitled "Michael Beirut at Notre Dame­Finally." 
The film "Merce Cunningham on Film," direct­ed by Elliot Caplan, will be show today at 10 p.m. in Browning Cinema. 
The sophomore class council is hosting Comedy Sports -an improvisational comedy act ­in Washington Hall Friday at 8 p.m. 
"Open Doors to the Physics Labs" will take place Saturday from 9 a.m. to noon in Nieuwland Science Hall. Professor Chris Kolda will speak from 10 a.m. to 11 in room 118 on "God's Dice: Einstein and the Journey from the Wedgewood Kilns to the Uncertainty Principle." 
Blak Images -the Black Cultural Arts Council's signa­ture event -will take place Saturday at 8 p.m. at Wash­ington Hall. Performances from First Class Steppers, Voices of Faith and Troop ND will highlight the event. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to 
SUNDAY MONDAY 


HIGH 62 HIGH 
61 

LOW 40 LOW 
42 

Atlanta 75 I 50 Boston 72 I 44 Chicago 58 I 39 Denver 71 I 37 Houston 74 I 50 Los Angeles 88 I 63 Minneapolis 54 1 34 New York 67 I 51 Philadelphia 71 I 44 Phoenix 88 I 60 Seattle 50 I 46 St. Louis 62 I 41 Tampa 79 I 62 Washington 71 1 41 
Thursday, November 3, 2005 The Observe~ + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
D.C. program. jum.p-starts careers 
By MOLLY LAMPING 
News Wrirrr 
Whiln many undergraduates opt to spnrHI a s1~nwster in a l'on~ign country, Saint Mary's political sdm1ee majors have l.lw option ol' studying "abroad" in orw ol' t.lw world's most politi­ndly-ehargnd dlins r·ight hnro at homo-Washington D.C. 
The Saint Mary's Collngn Washington Snnwstnr l'ro1,rram providns studenl'i the cham:e to gain valuabln work nxpnrience and nstahlish a prol'nssional rwtwork. all while working toward a dngrnn in politkal sd­nnen. 
BPgun in tlw narly 1970s, the program is run by Anwriean llniwrsity and is mrnprisnd ol' two main parl'i -an internship and a smnirmr series. 
Through their intnrnships, studnnts have tlw opportunity to work at a rnullitudn of insti­tutions and organizations including ABC Nnws, the Pentagon and Congrnssional olli!-Ps. 
Senior Thnrns1~ Beaulieu worked in tlw Department of Corn nwn:n 's Oflkn of Legislative and lntPrgowrnmental All'airs during her SIHlwstnr in W<L'ihington. TlwrP in the midst ol' tlw Bush-Kerry presidential rampaign in the fall of 2004, slw had a front row seat to one ol' tlw most nxdting funr.tions of Anu•ric:an polities. 
"Through !my internship!, I was ahln to learn about other things going on in D.C. and till­low up on a lot ol' important issues l'rorn my job," Beaulieu said. 
Senior Sarah Staley worked lr1r Congrossrnan Eliot Engel (D­NY) while in the eapitol. She W1L'i rosponsible fi1r working on grants, answering constituent phone calls and occasionally giving tours of the Capitol build­ing. She once attended a for­nign poliey meeting at which former seerotary ol' state llonry Kissinger made a prnsnntation. 
"I would go to nwetings or hearings and report back to ~ lngislativn aide in the ortiee," Staley said. "!My dutinsl pretty much ehangnd evnryday." 
The seminar snrins eompo­nnnt ol' the program requires partidpanl'i to attnnd smninars rnlating to thnir internships thnH~ days pnr week at Amnrican University. The semi­nars are not a lecture in the traditional snnsn, according to political scienen chair Soan Savagn, bneausn field trips and guest speakers from almost evnry political affiliation and earner in the American political system am a 1w~jor part of the snminar series. 
"We had a d<L'iS in a senator's ollie1~." Beaulieu said. 
Senior Jenny Mayer was a part of the Washington Snrnnster's Law Enforcement program, one of several dill'er­nnt tracks of study participants can select. Bncause of this, she would take many field trips fi1r her seminar. 
"Wn would aetually go to the FBI and learn about it, instead of just reading a book," Mayer said. 
For the women involvnd, the Washington Senwster Program is not just an amazing opportu­nity to work in tho heart of the Ameriean political system, but it gives students tho chance to start creating one's own profes­sional network. 
Staley Wfmt back to Washington over fall break to visit her old oflicn. She said that one woman in her offie1~ told her "if I was looking li1r a job to come lind her right away." 
"We've had a numbnr of stu­dents who ended up getting paying jobs in Washington beeause of the connections they made through the program," Savage said. 
The Saint Mary's D.C. Alumnae Club wnleomed the participants to thn area and crnated eonnections for high­profile events for the young womnn, Beaulieu said. 
"Saint Mary's is definitely known in Washington, D.C.," Beaulieu said. 
The semester in Washin1-,rton, 
D.C. requires saerifiee and sometimes additional work on the part of' studenl<>. 
For Mayer, the nxpnrienee of working in the Pentagon meant she had to add a political sei­nnee m1~jor, and she now takes 21 erndit hours every semester. Despitn the sacrifices she had to make, Mayer strongly encour­ages others to participate in the Washin!-,rton Semester. 
"I want to work in thn gov­ernment someday, and what better place in world is there to start than in Washington, D.C.?" Bcaulinu said. 
Contact Molly Lamping at mlampiO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Mendoza requires Web design classes 
By JACLYNNE MADDEN 
News Writer 
Business is not just about m01my anymore. 
The ever-evolving world ol'tedmol­ogy has revolutionized the business industry, and the Mendoza Collngn of Business is taking measures to ensure their studnnts kenp up by making computer dassos a rnquirn­ment. 
Information Technology (IT) Managemnnt and Operations is a course required of all sophomorn Business majors. This class, which is an introduction to tho tnchnologkal processes in whieh studenl<> will be more involved later on in their careers, is divided into two eompo­nenl'i, MGT 20600 and MGT 21600. 
MGT 20600 is a loeturn sngment, which teaches tndmology fundamen­tals and the managerial uses of sort­ware, such as Exenl, Access and Dreamweaver. During the lab por­tion of thn dass. MGT 21600, stu­denl<> arn given a hands-on opportu­nity to use this spedfie sortwarn. '1\vo primary requirnmenl'i of' the lab arn to ereatc a personal Web site and a commercial Web site. 
'The students are going through an integrative process by b1~ing in this course," because students use Access databases and Drnamweaver to ereate their Wnb sites, said profi~s­sor Bruen Wood. 
The first Web site rnquirnment is one in which students design thnir own Web page. Tho individual nature of this projeet allows studenl'i to learn the basies ol' how to strue­
turn a Web site. Individual Web sites 
an~ also available lilr others to view, 
espeeially prospeetivn nmploy1ws 
who can observe tlw technological 
abilities and cTeativity studenl'i pos­
sess. 

Dnsign and implementation ol' an c-~-eornnwree Web site, or a c:ommnr­dal Wnb site. is the sm~ond rnquirnd projnct for husinnss students. A group or five students work as a team in completing this assignnwnt and are givcm a ease study as the b1L'iis of' the prqjeet. 
The casn study fi1r making this Sl~c­ond Web site asks students to prP­tend they arn intnrns within a corpo­ration; this corporation has given them the 'task ol' dewloping a Web site that ref1eets tlw corporation ilsdf. After the Web sit1~ is complet­ed, studenl'i must givn a presm1tation of their projeet to both fitculty mmn­bers and other studenl'i. 
Thn implmnentation ol' the Web site projnet, which began in 2000, has been a combinnd nlli1rt among fiteulty mmnbers within tlw Mendoza Collnge of' Business. Professor Deborah Ballou teadws tho ler.turP component ol' tlw course, while Wood and Profi~ssor Barham Miller tnaeh the lab component. 
"Studenl'i rnally seem to like this project," Wood said. "Students rnpeatedly eornn b;u~k and ofli~r sug­gestions. It is also rnally n~warding to see the crnativity that mnws out of them. It gives studnnl'i the opportuni­ty to shine and some orthe !Web site! results arn very irnprnssive," hn said. 
Contact Jadynne Madden at jmad­denl@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 3, 2005 
Co01ps 
continued from page 1 
study. In most departments, the comprehensive consists of an extensive research project, the results of which are the basis for a paper, and is com­pleted with presentations of the project to a panel of facul­ty from the student's major department, as well as fellow students and friends. Each major is unique in its specific requirements for the compre­hensive, as is each topic on which students decide to focus. 
According to biology profes­sor Richard Jensen, senior biology majors are required to develop a proposal for an independent research project during the spring of their jun­ior year. They then present it to faculty for approval and complete it with the assis­tance of a professor or an off­campus advisor during the fall of their senior year. 
In the spring, students and faculty attend a research sym­posium where each student presents her project as if attending a professional meet­ing. 
Jensen believes this is an important experience to have before graduation. 
"I think we believe students should have some sort of 
defining  "In communications,  the Web site for  
experience in the major," Jensen said.  the idea is that when a person graduates  the history department, students are  
"We look at it  from Saint Mary,s  given a  choice  
as something  they ,re right at the  of completing  
really impor­tant for stu­ point where they can  an objective examination  
dents in the  do professional-level  and a four-hour  
sciences  research.,,  written exami­ 
because they  nation,  or  an  
get a  feeling  objective exam­ 
of what  it's  Vince Berdayes  ination and an  
like  to  do  associate professor of  essay for their  
research."  communications  comprehensive.  

Jensen said that many alumnae have contacted him and informed him that they felt the senior comprehensive is one of the most valuable experiences at Saint Mary's because it gives students an edge when applying for jobs or admission to graduate schools. 
Kirsten Fantom, a biology and psychology double major, is currently working on two comprehensive projects and feels that the experience will be a help to her in her future career. Both of her projects are centered on animals. 
For biology, she designed a project in veterinary science looking at canine dental records and how they corre­late with renal failure, while her psychology experiment consists of observing the ben­efits nursing home patients gain from being in the pres­ence of animals. 
"I think they are beneficial because we are able to design our own study and learn the proper way to do research, investigate a topic, and pres­ent it to peers and experts in the field," she said. "I feel I will be ahead of the game." 
Similar to the biology department, students who major in communications also complete a research based project. Associate professor of communications Vince Berdayessaid the senior com­prehensive in communications is a two-course sequence that takes place in the spring of junior and fall of senior years, which lead up to a final proj­ect presented to the public during the fall of senior year. 
"In communications, the idea is that when a person graduates from Saint Mary's, they're right at the point where they can do profession­al-level research," Berdayes said, "so what we're trying to do is ensure the person can write well, is familiar with the material and that they are capable of work on the pro­fessional level that could con­ceivably be published." 
According to Mary Connolly, associate professor and chair of the mathematics depart­ment, seniors majoring in math are also required to do extensive research for their comprehensives. 
"Seniors in the math depart­ment do independent research for the senior com­prehensive," she said. "They study a topic not covered in any of the courses they have taken and work under the direction of an advisor. Seniors present two prelimi­nary talks on their work to their peers in the senior semi­nar. They then write a formal paper on their work and give a final talk, open to the pub­
lic. At the final talk, they answer questions posed by three faculty members who have read the paper." 
Research projects are required for many but not all majors as a part of the senior 
comprehensive. According to 
Other depart­
ments, like phi­losophy, state on their depart­mental Web sites that stu­dents can have a choice between taking a comprehen­sive examination or complet­ing a research project with a faculty member similar to other departments. 
Religious studies majors actually choose their own material for the two essay examinations they are required to complete for their comprehensives. According to the religious studies Web site, students choose four texts each semester and work closely with faculty advisors to develop a bibliography. For the examination, students are given 24 hours to complete an open-book essay examination about their selected texts. 
Although each department is unique in its requirements for senior comprehensives, students and faculty agree that whatever the require­ments, students benefit from the work that is required. 
"My comprehensive consist­ed of many long nights meet­ing with my team of five," senior business major Bridget Boyce said. "We researched Target and Target's competi­tors, Wal-Mart and Costco. We spent many hours figuring out a strategy for Target. We are hoping this strategy will increase their net revenue and increase market share. It was a good experience. Hopefully our hard work will pay off." 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO1@saintmarys.edu 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 


Members discuss parking issues 
Assault 
contiimed from page 1 
occurred. 

The alleged victim does not intend to file charges at this time, College spokeswoman Melanie McDonald said. 
"She is seeking counseling, and certainly counseling is going to do as much for her as they can," McDonald said. 
McDonald said she did not know whether the student remains on campus. 
"Certainly we have to respect the desire for privacy, 
The Riverside Terrace 426 Lincolnway East cindy@ theriversideterrace.com 57 4-256-2271 
Look for Our New Wesite Coming Soon! 
theriversideterrace.com 
Downtown Mishawaka on the River 
Formal Dinners Special Events Dances Accommodates up to 700 Persons Off Premise Catering Book Your Dance and Banquet Now! 
and she has expressed a desire for privacy," McDonald said. 
Although he said he did not know when the student con­tacted College officials, Farmer said the larger College community was noti­fied as soon as sufficient information was available. 
"Any time a student reports anything to an authority on campus, that's when the College follows through and shares it with the College," Farmer said. 
The College is required to disclose information about campus crimes by the Jeanne Clery Act, Farmer said. 

JOin a fledgling league of graduate students from other Indiana Universities including Indiana University, Purdue University of Indianapolis, Purdue University and Indiana State University. 
Union members voted not to join because of the existence of a similar organization, the National Association of Graduate and Professional Students (NAGPS). 
The Graduate Student Union will be hosting the Midwest Hegional Conference 
for  NAGPS  this  coming  
spring.  
The  GSU  will  also  be  

involved in the forming of an appeals committee for gradu­ate student affairs. This com­mittee will handle appeals from all the graduate depart­ments. 
The GSU will be allowed one non-voting member on this committee. 
"This forces all depart­ments to come up with a written policy on appeals," Graduate Council Member Tim Schoenharl said. 
The student activities fee was also raised $5 from its current $55 to compensate for a decrease in funding from Student Activities and still allow for a generous travel fund. 
Contact Maggie Hyde at mhydel@nd.edu 
The alleged incident does not appear on the Notre Dame Security/Police crime blotter on Oct. 29, Nov. 1 or Nov. 2. 
The crime alert did not specify whether alcohol was a factor in the alleged assault. It did conclude by encourag­ing students to be vigilant about personal safety. 
"Be aware of your surround­ings," the alert said. "And, as always, if you are consuming any type of beverage, pay par­ticular attention to your own drink and do not let it out of your sight at any time." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at Onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
By MAGGIE HYDE 
News Writer 

The Graduate Student Union convened for its monthly meeting Wednesday and discussed the improve­ment of parking for off-cam­pus graduate students, the formation of an appeals com­mittee. the invitation to join a 
group Indiana gradu­ate students from other universities and the raising of the student activities fee for graduate stu­dents. 
Graduate students have been struggling to find parking spots since the removal of many due to con­struction. Numerous students expressed frustration with the difficulty of getting to "University commit­

ments" because of a lack of parking. 
"We have a firm commit­ment to conduct a study for the D2 parking lot," said Quality of Life committee chairman Kevin Robbins. 
The D2 parking lot is due north of Hesburgh Library and provides parking for some undergraduate and graduate students. Some members of the Graduate Student Union said they 
"We have a firm commitment to conduct a study for the D2 parking
lot.,, 

Kevin Robbins quality of life committee chairman 
would like to see the lot freed up for those that drive to school daily to prevent cars from parking there for long periods of time. 
Other solutions to the park­ing problem included opening the library parking lot earli­er, assigning D2 parking spots to graduate students, changing the visitors' lot to graduate student parking and 
others who deal with parking policy on campus are dis­cussing them. 
Robbins said Johnson did not view the shortage of parking as an immediate problem, yet many graduate students feel that it is not a simple issue of inconven­ience, but a "respect issue." 
GSU President Misty Schieberle announced the Notre Dame Graduate Student Union was invited to 
reissuing "G­stickers." 
T h e s e stick.ers would allow graduate students to park in reserved sec­tions. These solutions, Robbins said, are nowhere near to being implement­ed, but Johnson and 


r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 3, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVJCES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pakistan death toll reaches 73,000 
ISL;\M;\B;\Il -Pakistan's oiTieial narth­quakn diHtth toll jumpnd by I(,,ooo. and ol'li­cials warnml Wndnesday that it is liknly to risn l'urthnr as rnlid supplins !'ail to reach thousands or victims strandnd in remote JHll"tS o(' the JJimalayas. 
Tlw annoum~nmPnt, which puts thn ollidal toll at 7:{,000, brings thn central govnmmnnt l'igun~s rlosm· to thn numlwr reported by lora! ol'ficials, who say the Oct. S quake killl•d at lmtst 71J,OOO pnopln in Pakistan. 
".Just imaginn how many villagns and towns lwcanw a lwap or rubbln and how many pnople got burind," said Maj. Gnn. htmoq t\hnwd Khan told I"PJHII"tnrs. 
Khan said 7:{,27h pnopln havn bonn eon­lirnwd dnad in Pakistan and Pakistani-eon­troiiPd Kashmir. up !'rom thn oflkial count or S7,SIJ7. In India's portion of Kashmir, an additional 1.:{!>0 J>PopiP diNI. 
Troops rescue four electoral officials 
KINSII;\S;\, Congo -Congolese troops rnsnwd !'our nlnrtoral workers from their militia r.aptors in a raid that snt oiT a battln that killnd doznns of militiamnn and one soldinr. oflkials said Wndnnsday. 
Mayi-Mayi fightnrs had kidnapped tho ol'f'ieials Oct. 2:{ at Burondo in North Kivu provincn in nortlwastnrn Congo, and thn army fnH~d tlwm lat1~ Sunday, military spoknsman .lnan-Willy Mutombo told Tho ;\ssociatml Pn~ss. 
"Somn 40 Mayi-Mayi militiamen were killnd hy tlw army." Mutombo said. "Ono soldi1~r was killnd and thr<w others injurnd." 
t\ spokosman for a Unitod Nations peaee­kPnping forc1~. Col. Thinrry Provnndinr, eon­firnwd tlw n~snw. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Administration reveals flu strategy 
WASIIINGTON-;\ llu pandemic that hits l.lw Unitnd Statns would forco cities to ration scarcn drugs and vaccine and house tho sick in hotnls or schools wlwn hospitals overllow, unpnH:mlnntnd fndnral plans say. 
Tlw Bush administration's long-awaited rnport Wndnnsday on battling a worldwide supPr-llu outbrnak makns dnar that old-fash­iorwd infnr.tion-control will bn koy. 
Signs that a super-llu is sprnading among p1~ople anywlwn~ in tlw world t:ould prompt 
U.S. travd rnstrid.ions or othnr stnps to con­tain tiH' illrwss bPI'orP it hits Anwrka's shoros. 

Daschle calls for troops to leave Iraq 
WASIIIN<;ToN Formnr Snnatn lli'IIIOITatk leadnr Tom llaschln says all U.S. troops ought to bn withdrawn from Iraq by tlw nnd of 2007. 
Tlu• South Dakota llnrnoerat, dnfnatnd for rP-nll'l'!.ion last Novmnlmr. made tho comment in a fon~ign policy spnnr.h snt l'or delivnry in Chic.a~o on Wndrwsday, thrnn days bnforn a planrwd visit to politieally pivotal Iowa. 
l>aschln has raisnd his public profile in nH:nnt wonks and has not nrlnd out a presi­dnntial run in 200S. 
In an advanet~ tnxt of tlw spnneh, obtainnd by Tlw ;\ssodatml Pross, l>asehle said torror­isrn and AIDS had bnwnw groatcr threats urHll~r thn Bush administration. lie accusnd l'rnsi<lnnt Bush of giving riso to "a world opin­ion that now holds ;\nwrica in lownr esteem than 1wnr bnforn." 
LOCAL NEWS 

Woman's body found in corn field 
IIOWI·:. Ind. -lnvnstigators bnlinvo a body found burind in a eorn liPid is that of a Miehigan woman who had bonn missing sincn Soptnmbnr. 
;\ l'arnwr harvnsting a corn linld near tlw Indiana-Michigan state linn partially unearthed tlw body Tw•sday aftnrnoon. polien said. 
lnvnstigators lwlinwd iL<> tlw body of 79-ynar­old llosmnary Hnirwl of Sturgis, Mich., who was n~portnd missing Snpt. 22. Tho sitn whnrn tho body ww; ((JlfiHI is only a li~w miles !hun Hninel's homo. 

Rosa Parks honored at funeral 
Thousands, including former President Clinton, Jesse Jackson, attend service 
Associated Press 

DETHOIT-Perhaps it 
wasn't the most fitting 
momorial for Hosa Parks: 
dozons of prominent 
speakers and thousands of 
mournnrs at a seven-hour 
funnral that followed lavish 
rnmmnbrances in Alabama 
and Washington. 

Parks would have bnnn 
shocknd, Nation of Islam 
loader Louis Farrakhan 
said, "bncausn this wasn't 
what shn was about. ... She 
wasn "t about being a big 
shot." 

But there was too much 
gratitude, too mueh respm~t 
Wodnesday in Greatnr 
Grace Temple for the 
mourners to let this quiet 
woman go quietly. Many of 
thorn had accomplished 
grnat things in their lives, 
things they knew might 
have be impossible if, 50 
years ago, a tailor's assis­
tant hadn't decided she 
had had onough or being 
treated as something less 
than a human being. 
"Thank you for sacrilic­ing for us," said Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatriek, who hadn't been born when Parks wl'usnd to give up her bus s<mt to a white man in an aet that would catapult the eivil rights movement. "Thank you for praying when Wf1 wern too eool and too eute to pray for ourselves.... Thank you hold hands and sang the which Parks' cofl'in was Hodham Clinton. D-N.Y. for allowing us to step on civil rights anthem "We brought from Detroit, "The world knows of your mighty shoulders." Shall Overeome" as family where she died Oet. 24; to Hosa Parks lH1eausn of a 
Parks was described dur­members l'iled past her Montgomery, Ala., where single, simplo act of dignity ing the service as both a casket before it was elosml she took her famous stand and courago that stnu~k a warrior and a woman of in the funeral's lirst hour. in 1955; to Washington, lothal blow to the founda­poace who never stopped "Mother Parks, take your where she became the lirst tions of legal bigotry," said working toward a l'uture of rest. You have cnrtainly woman to lie in honor in former Presidnnt Clinton, raeial equality. earned it," said Bishop the Capitol Hotunda. who pres1~nted Parks with 
"The woman we honored Charles Ellis Ill of Creator Singers Wednesday the Presidential Mndal of today held no publie ol'liee, Grace Temple. included Aretha Franklin Freodom in 1996. she wasn't a wealthy Philip Hobert Cousin, a and mezzo-soprano Brenda Tho Hov. Jnss1~ .laekson woman. didn't appear in senior bishop of the t\M E .Jackson, who sang a soar­liknnml Parks to an naglo. the soeiety pages," said Chureh, eulogized Parks as ing version of the Lord's "You allowed tlw rebirth of Sen. Barack Obarna, D-Ill. "a diamond that had bonn Prayer. hopn," hn said, al'tnr ealling "And yet when the history polished in tho hands of Mt~mbers of Congress, for a White llousn eonfnr­of this country is writtnn, it God .... She formed the national eivil rights leaders ence on civil rights. "You is this small, quiet woman rock on which we now lilled the pews. Los Angeles ~avn us eonlidnnt protndion. whose name will be stand." Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa You showod us how to lly." nmwmbered long after the The funeral, which spoke, as did former presi­Long lwforn t.lw funeral, names of senators and stretehnd four hours past dential candidate .John tho Ii no to gnt one of tho presidents have been for­its thrne-hour scheduled Korry, Ford Motor Co. 2,000 available public gotten." time. followed a week of Chairman and CEO Bill soats at tho dnrreh extnnd­
Those in the audience rcmembranens during Ford and U.S. Sen. llillary nd for blocks. 
IRAQ 


Bomb kills twenty near Baghdad 
Associated Press since the Iraq eonl'liet bogan in feared among the dead and wound­BAGIIDAD. Iraq -A suicide March 2003, according to an mi. bomber detonated a minibus t\ssoeiatod Press count. "They want to kill people bol'orn Wednesday in an outdoor market The suicide bombing oeeurred the fnast," said Nagai. llassoun, 50, paeknd with shoppers ahead of a about 5 p.m. in the center of who liv1~d a few hundn~d yards from Muslim festival. killing about 20 peo­Musayyib, a Euphratos Hiver town 40 the blast site. "They want pnopln to ple and woundin~ more than 60 in a miles from Baghdad. On July 16, stay at homo and livn in a l.ragndy. Shiite town south of Baghdad. Six nearly 100 peopl11 died in a suicide The aim is to causn sabol.agn. 
U.S. troops were killed, two in a heli­bombing in front of a ShiitP mosque Thny'rn targeting thn Shiites." copter crash west of the capital. in Musayyib. Thn town police r.hinf, l.t.. Col. 
Also Wndnesday, the U.S. eommand Witnesses said tlw latest attaek Ahmed Mijwil, said 22 pnopln worn conlirmed moves to stop up training took place as the market was erowd­killed and 61 woundnd. But of'lidals on how to eombat roadside bombs­ed in advanee of the thren-day Eid warrwd the ligures could ehangn as now thn biggest killers of Ameriean ai-Fitr holiday that marks the end of rescuers frantically searehnd tlw troops in Iraq. t\t least 2,035 U.S. the lshunie holy month of Hamadan. area of meat and vngntabln stalls, military servit~e members have died Many women and children were shops and eafes. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 3, 2005 
Parks 
continued from page 1 

"Rosa Parks didn't give up her seat because she was tired ... beyond that one day in 1965, Rosa Parks was still a remark­able woman." 
Parks, who became a symbol of the civil rights movement after she refused to give up her bus seat in Montgomery, Ala., was a woman of faith -a woman once referred to as a "humming Christian light," .Johnson said. 
"Hosa Parks once confessed 'God is everything to me,"' .Johnson said. "Mrs. Rosa Parks was lead by her God ... living her faith as only a true woman of God can." 
At the time of the bus boycott, Parks was "emotionally and psy­chologically tired" and com­pelled to become a catalyst of. social change, said junior Kyree Blackwell. 
"We don't see too many white heroes who were victims of abuse," Richard Pierce, chair of the Africana Studies depart­ment, said. "[Parks'! lesson is not one of abstinence or fatigue ... it was one of preparation," Pierce said. 
Parks was educated and was taught not just how to protest, but why to protest, Pierce said. 
"It wasn't the 11rst time she had been kicked off that bus ... by that very same driver," he said. "The difference on Dec. 1 was that when she was kicked off the bus, people followed ... she prepared herself and tried to prepare other for the freedom movement." 
Senior Rhea Boyd, chair of the 

Senate 
continued from page 1 

semester about the University's interest in and research on ways to improve residential life. 
Zahm senator and Residence Life committee member Pat Knapp presented the findings, drawn primarily from student surveys con­ducted in the dorms. 
"So far, the input has focused on the student body as a whole," Knapp said. "What we're doing now is air­ing out the ideas in front of all the student leaders, to get your feedback." 
Most students surveyed did not support renovating LaFortune, Knapp said, instead favoring "separated complimentary facilities." 
Students wanted to see this proposed additional student center somewhere on central campus, Knapp said. 
He said nine of the 13 focus groups supported Crowley Hall as the best location. 
"Crowley Hall's existing office space and proximately to LaFortune are major advantages," the committee's preliminary report read. "Though Washington Hall was discussed as a possible loca­tion to expand student center services, there is a clear sen­timent among the Notre Dame student body that Washington Jlall is highly valued as per­forming arts space for student productions." 
While senators did not argue the concepts presented in the preliminary report, they responded with ques­tions regarding its implemen­tation. 
"Is Crowley [Hall] up for 
minority affairs committee on the student senate, said Parks' war was one waged against a color -black. 
"It was also not so long ago that a seamstress decided to confront !racism]." Boyd said. 
Parks' war triggered a more­than-yearlong boycott of the bus system by blacks, organized by civil rights leader Martin Luther King .Jr. 
"She had the courage to act not knowing if people could fol­low ... the courage that you will have to manifest to act on behalf of your beliefs," Pierce said. 
Blackwell echoed Pierce's point and said that Parks laid out an example of education and 
faith that should be fol­lowed. 
As a "Mrs. Rosa Parks 
woman who was lead by her God 
was more 
... living her faith as
comfortable 
behind the only a true woman of scenes than God can." in the front, Parks was 
Chandra Johnson
active in 
more than director of cross-cultural just the civil ministry rights move­ment, Pierce said. 
grabs?" Morrissey senator Brian Klein asked. 
Brian Coughlin, director of Student Activities, said the building would be available if the music department relocat­ed. 
"It's like when they were building the [DeBartolo] Performing Arts Center," Coughlin said, noting how dif­ferent groups moved out of Washington Hall and left vacant space. 
In response to Lewis sena­tor Katie McHugh's concern that Crowley might not be "big enough" -the report requested the addition of more than 15 meeting rooms and offices -Knapp said Crowley would be serving as an additional, not the only, student center. 
And, he said, it's hard to meet everyone's demands. 
"For the most part, we want it all," Knapp said. "If we want it all, we probably won't be bothered by using a sepa­rated complementary facility with Crowley." 
Other questions surfaced about the project's timeframe -a point that did not concern student body president Dave Baron. 
"We do, foot for foot, have much smaller space than [many peer institutions]." Baron said. "We are talking long term here. That's okay." 
The report also recom­mended that Crowley Hall, if chosen as the site of the sec­ond center, be redesigned in LaFortune's gothic architec­tural style. 
In other Senate news: 
.Judicial Council president James Leito and vice presi­dent for Judicial Council's Peer Advocacy program John Trippi addressed senators at the beginning of the meeting, each and every one of you ... make history," Pope-Davis said. 
Pope-Davis connected the time of Rosa Parks' bus boycott to Notre Dame at that same time ­where people of color and peo­ple of different genders "were not part of the current commu­nity." 
Because of Parks' action, Pope-Davis said the community is called to lead, to take chances and to rise as people of faith to change the environment. 
"In those moments when you think you cannot go on in this place ... recognize that you occupy this space and time because you stand on the shoul­ders of those who came before 
you," he said. 

Pope-Davis chal­lenged the commu­nity not only to look at Parks as part of history, but as a groundbreaker for those who followed her. 
To do so, Boyd said one must use the classroom as the battlefield and engage in issues of equality and justice -just as Parks did when she brought 
the "struggle of a movement to the conscience of an individual," she said. 
"It is not sufficient simply to be present here and be counted among us," he said. "The chal­lenge is to do more than that ... the challenge of history is not to forget it ... stand up or sit down, as the case may be, and engage in the conversation." 
asking them to hang posters publicizing the peer advocacy program in their dorms. 
"We're trying to spread the word ... it's a good resource for students," Trip pi said. 
Peer Advocacy offers help to students facing Residence Life disciplinary conferences or hearings. While the program has been a part of the Student Constitution for a while, it is not widely known -something .Judicial Council hopes to change this year. 
"It's a worthwhile program helping your fellow students," Trippi said. 
+Baron said student gov­ernment was pursuing meas­ures along with the Office of Residence Life and Housing and local landlords to help the six students involved in eviction proceedings from Turtle Creek Apartments find housing. 
"So that's a good sign the Notre Dame family is coming together to help these stu­dents," Baron said. 
He stressed that student government was "definitely not advocating that students break the law," but would continue to assert its opposi­tion to last summer's amend­ment to the disorderly house ordinance, passed by the South Bend Common Council on July 25. 
+Eating Disorders Week will take place next week, Gender Relations committee chair Ali Wishon said. 
"This is just huge," Wishon said. "We're starting out with our biggest event." 
Wishon was referring to "internationally recognized" media images expert Jean Kilbourne, who will speak at 7 p.m. Monday in DeBartolo. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

but rather implies a low­grade condemnation."


Faculty 

But committee member continued from page 1 marketing professor .John 
Gaski said the Senate needs 
to make sure students we are willing to listen. understand how to be This affects everyone at the enthusiastic without University." "embarrassing" the 
The insurance premiums University. are the same for every staff "Sure, be as enthusiastic member from professors to as you want, but be a little maintenance staff. Faculty bit smarter about it," Gaski Senate Chair Seth Brown said. "I just don't think said. they're doing it in a way 
Engineering professor that's smart enough. We Timothy Ovaert can challenge questioned them to whether or not upgrade their there was a antics." 
fixed allocation "Maybe the Board of The group from the Trustees needs to briefly dis­
University's cussed the
consider budget 
overall budget North Central 
for faculty and realignment. I'd be Accreditation staff benefits. happy to talk.,, report, which "Maybe the evaluated the Board of University's
Timothy Ovaert
Trustees needs progress on 

to consider engineering professor issue
the of 
budget realign­ment," Ovaert said. "I'd be happy to talk. Perhaps their business models are not appropriate. We need to look at the bil­lions we have sitting in a pot instead of pinching the employees." 
Murphy defended the allo­cations. 
"I hear what you're say­ing," Murphy said. "But our goal is to have options for everyone." 
The student affairs com­mittee of the Faculty Senate met and discussed three key issues during their meeting: the Leprechaun Legion, student involvement in University affairs and academic freedom. 
The Leprechaun Legion has faced criticism from the Faculty Senate in recent months for student chants at the basketball games ­specifically the use of the word "sucks" when players from the opposing team are introduced before the game. 
Student Affairs committee chair Philippe Collon received a letter from stu­dent body president Dave Baron and student body vice president Lizzi Shappell in which they clar­ified that "sucks" did not "imply a sexual vulgarity 
student-facul­
ty relations 
and student­
administra­tion communication. 
"We need to ask the stu­dents what they think," committee member and his­tory professor Gail Bederman said. "It's hard to tell how this works out in practice. Is there a clear understanding of communi­cation back and forth?" 
Bederman said the com­mittee on student voice and input in the Campus Life Council will continue to evaluate the situation and work to improve it. 
Members also discussed the definition and role of academic freedom at Notre Dame, especially in regard to campus films and per­formances like the Vagina Monologues and the Queer Film Festival. 
"A lot of people see dis­cussion as good," Bederman said. "I think discussion should be broader at a Catholic university. Events like Vagina Monologues are a way to talk about issues and Catholic views when they differ from the main­stream. We'd do students a disservice to say we don't discuss it." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

Parks was a vocal opponent of apartheid in South Africa and formed the Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute for Self Development in Detroit, which offers career training to teenagers. 
Donald Pope-Davis, associate vice president for the graduate school, called attendees to look around the room at "people who you perceive as being culturally different than yourself." 
"In this space and in this time, 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 


Thursday, November 3, 2005 

Dow 

10,472.73 +65.96
}ones 
4 

up: Same: Down: Composite Volum 1,550 132 "'' 2,461,828,500 
AMEX 1.681.21 +28.64. NASDAQ 2,144.31 +30.26 NYSE. 7:509.82 +84.64 S&PSOO 1,214.76 +12.00 NIKKEI(Tol<yo) 13,894.78 +26.92 FTSE IOO(London) 5,358.60 +14.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) +1.31 +0.51 39.35 SYMANTEC CP (SYMC) -4.63 19.37
-19.29 SUN MICROSYS (SUNW) -0.12
-3.09 3.73 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) + 1.93 +0.50 26.46 SIRIUS SATELLITE R(SIRI) +5.60 +0.37 6.89 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.67 +0.32 48.01 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.72 +0.33 46.10 5-YEAR NOTE +0.69 +0.31 44.97 3-MONTH BILL -0.65 -0.25 38.37 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.10 59.8S GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.00 464.60 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.63 88.48 
Excha Rates 

YEN 
116.8750 EURO 
0.8283 POUND 
0.5628 CANADIAN$ 
1.1796 

IN BRIEF 
Futures prices fall as oil supply grows 
NJ<:W YOBK -Crude-oil futuros ondod slightly lownr Wndrwsday as traders shruggnd off weekly govnrnnwnt petroleum invontory data and contin­und taking cues from the marknts for refined produd'i likn gasoline. 
Tho inventory rnport showed continued irnprovenwnL'i in the country's supply and demand balance after hurrimm~s Katrina and Hita. 
"Thn bearish lildor li1r tlw marknt was a lowflr· t.han-nxpertnd draw in distillate inventory," said .John Kildull'. nrwq.,ry analyst at Fimat USA Inc., a Nnw York-basml brokerage firm. "That coupled with an nxtnndnd li•rneast li1r moderato tempera­tun• has pushnd thn entirn complex down." 
Tlw Dncmnbnr contract liw light, swnet crude oil futun~s on tlw NPw York Mercantiln Exchange nndnd at $.'i1J.7.'i a harrd, down 10 cnnts, al'tnr lillling as low as $.'iS.7.'i. the lowest lnvol since lato .July. 
llncPmbnr lwating oil nndml down 2.21 cm1ts at $1.7S29 a gallon, rnhounding from tho sossion's low ol'$1.7.'i00 a gallon. 
DPI~Pmbnr gasolirw li~ll as low at $l..'i525 a gal­lon t.o end at $1.5(,1) I a gallon. down 3.45 conL'i. 
Changes made to Medicare payments 
WASIIINGTON -Final fedora] rules isstwd Wmlrwsday will cut Mndicarn's reimbursement rates for doctors next year by 4.4 percent while irH·.n~asing paynwnts l'or most hospitals by at least :~.7 pnrcnnt. 
I>odors have said that such a cut in their reim­bursnnHmt ratns would prompt many to stop see­ing Mndiearn patients. Congrnss has indicated a willingness to address their concerns; the Senate Finance Committee last week approved a bill that would give physidans a I porcent increase in tlwir rates rwxt year. 
OITicials at the Centors for Medicare and Medi1~aid Services say tlwy lack the power to dmngn that lilrmula that sets tho reimbursement rate. 
Mndicarn is the federal program that provides lwalth eare to somo 42 million older and disabled Americans. 
"The existing law calls for a docrease in pay­nwnt rates lin· physicians in response to continue rapid incroases in use of servicfls and spending growth, and Mndiearn dons not have the authori­ty to change this," said the centers' administra­tor. Mark McClellan. 


Tl..·f EOBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 

Guidant Corp. deal uncertain 
Johnson & Johnson considers backing out of $25.4 billion purchasing agreenzent 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS Johnson & Johnson warned Wednesday it might pull out of' a $25.4 billion doal to buy Guidant Corp. because of potential liability arising l'rom the medical dcvico maker's sweeping product recalls and a rngulatory investigation. But Guidant ollieials said J&J was legal­ly bound to go through with the deal. 
"Recent product and communications issues have certainly had an impact on our business in the noar term," Guidant chief executive Honald W. Dollens said in a statement. "However, wo believe that the fundamentals of our business are strong and our markets and products have attractive prospects for growth." 
Meanwhile, analysts said J&.J, which makes health care products ranging from baby lotion to drug-coatfld heart stPnts, might be turn­ing its focus to Guidant's rival, St. Jude Medical Inc., in its quest to diversifY, 
"J&J needs something like Guidant to revitalize its growth," said Jan Wald, an analyst with A.G. Edwards & Sons. "People are now thinking that if J&J does walk away, St. Jude is in their scopes." 
St. Jude Medical, which St. Jude Medical is worth "Johnson & Johnson can­with Tlw Associated Prnss. makes pacemakers and about $18.4 billion. not assure that tho compa­Since June, Guidant has defibrillators, is based in St. Wednesday's market nies will resume those dis­recalled or issued warnings Paul, Minn. speculation and corporate cussions or, if discussions about 88,000 heart defibril­
St. Jude spokeswoman posturing came as the do resume, whether they lators -including its top Angela Craig said the com­Federal Trade Commission will be able to roach agree­seller, the Contak H1mewal pany does not comment on gave conditional approval ment on rovisfld terms that 3 -and almost 200,000 speculation. for the New Brunswick, would allow Johnson & pacemakers because of 
Indianapolis-based N.J.-based J&J to acquire Johnson to proceed with reported malfunctions. The Guidant shares sank $2. 70, Guidant, whieh is based in the transaction," the state­company fa1~ns multiple or 4.3 percflnt, to close at Indianapolis. ment said. lawsuits from patients and $60.40 on the New York J&J quickly issued a Pulling out of the agree­shareholdms, as well as a Stoek Exchange where it statemflnt saying recent mont could cost J&J $700 roported ITiminal investiga­had !'allen to a 52-week low rocalls of Guidant-made million, according to the tion by the U.S. hlOd and of $59.2.'i during in the day. implantable devices and merger agreement. But if Drug Administration. J&J sharPs lost 60 cents to regulatory investigations J&J can prove the recalls Federal JHosecutors in finish at $61.30 on the have had a "material have adversely affected Boston and Minneapolis NYSE. adverse effect" on Guidant Guidant, it won't have to last week issuml separate 
St. Jude Modieal stock and that it was not required pay the termination l'ee, suhpoetHts snnking docu­rose $2.1 0, or 4.3 percent, to close the acquisition. J&J said Handy Katz, an attor­ments about Guidant's to close at $50.44 after ollicials said negotiations to ney specializing in mergers dnviens and its Ventak brielly reaehing a new 52-restructure the terms of the and acquisitions with Bryan Prizrn B 2 and Contak week high of $50.70. At proposed buyout had not Cave LLP in Irvine, Calif. Ilo Henewal B I and 2 defibril­
. WPdnesday's closing pricfl, yielded a compromise . reviewed the agreement lators. 

AP 

A Guidant Contak Renewal 3 defibrillator is held in a 2004 picture. Since June of this year, Guidant has recalled or issued warnings about 88,000 defibrillators. 
Lower fuel prices cause stock gains 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -Stoeks moved sharply higher Wednesday on strong earnings from Time Warner Inc. and declining oil prices. A big upswing in tech stocks lifted the Nasdaq composite index well over 1 percent. 
With three-quarters of third-quar­ter earnings reported, the Standard & Poor's 500 are poised to post a 14 percent year-over-year quarterly gain. Traders continue to watch earnings while they wait for details on the economic outlook from tho Federal Reserve, which raised its benchmark interest rate to 4 per­cent Tuesday, its 12th consecutive rate hike. 
"Interest rates are still rising, but for tlw moment, we have great cor­porate profits," said Charles 1-I. Blood Jr., senior financial markets analyst at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. "It's like a race between in terost rates and profits. One day interest rates seem to win, the next day profits seem to win." 
The result is a market where large-cap stocks are nearly flat for the year. 
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 65.96, or 0.63 percent, to 10,472.73. 
Broader stock indicators also advanced. The Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 12.00, or 1 percent, 
to 1,214.76. The Nasdaq. boostnd by companies including Appln Computer lne. and Blaek Box Corp., rose 30.26, or 1.4:~ percent, to 2,144.31. 
Oil futures fell. A barrel of' light crude was quoted at $.'i9.75, down 10 cflnts, in trading on the Nnw York Mercantile Exchange. Oil's decline widflned at'ter the Energy Information Administration report· ed oil and gas reserves that were in line with analysts' exceptions. 
Bonds fell, with the yield on the 10-year Treasury note rising to 4.(>0 pPrcent from 4.58 percent late Tuesday. The U.S. dollar rose against major currencies in European trading. Gold prkes rose. 
page 8 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November 3, 2005 
Alito's confirtnation path looking brighter 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The 14 centrists who averted a Senate breakdown over judicial nomi­nees last spring are showing signs of splintering on President Bush's latest nomi­nee for the Supreme Court. 
That is weakening the hand of Democrats opposed to con­servative judge Samuel Alito and enhancing his prospects for confirmation. 
The unity of the seven Democrats and the seven Hepublicans in the "Gang of 14" was all that halted a major filibuster fight between GOP leader Bill Frist and Democratic leader Harry Reid earlier this year over Bush's lower court nominees. 
The early defection of two of the group's Republicans, Mike DeWine of Ohio and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, could hurt if Democrats decide to attempt a filibuster of Alito, the New Jersey jurist Bush nominated Monday to replace retiring Sandra Day O'Connor. 
If Democrats do filibuster, Frist wants to change the Senate rules to eliminate the delaying tactic -something the centrist group blocked in May. 
But a filibuster "based on a judicial philosophy difference, or an ideologically driven dif­ference," Graham said Wednesday at a news confer­ence. "I don't believe that, with all sincerity, I could let that happen." 
DeWine also made clear Tuesday after meeting with the judge that he would vote to ban a Democratic filibuster. "It's hard for me to envision that anyone would think about filibustering this nominee," he said. 
Graham said he would use the group's next meeting on Thursday to "inform them of my view." 
The centrist Democrats plan to urge their GOP colleagues to withhold judgment, since Alito's nomination is not even officially at the Senate yet. The defection of even two mem­bers of the group -which decided earlier in the year to support filibusters only in "extraordinary circumstances" -would virtually ensure that Frist, H-Tenn., would win a showdown. 
"The truth of the matter is that it's way too early to talk about extraordinary circum­stances," said Sen. Ben Nelson, D-Neb., a founding member of the group. ''I'm not hearing any of my colleagues talk about it, and I'd rather not hear any of my colleagues on the other side talk about it as well." 
The loss of Graham and DeWine makes the "Gang of 14" less influential. 
Republicans hold 55 seats in the Senate, and while confir­mation requires a simple majority, it takes 60 votes to break a filibuster. 
However, Frist needs only a simple majority -51 votes ­to eliminate the stalling tactic. 
That means he needs two members of the centrist group to join the rest of the GOP to meet his goal. With a 50-vote tie in the Senate, Vice President Dick Cheney would cast the tie-breaking vote for the Hepublicans and Alito could be confirmed with majority support. 

Bush announced Alito's nom­ination after the nomination of White House counsel Harriet Miers collapsed, undermined by conservatives. 
The 55-year-old Alito -who has served for 15 years on the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals after being a govern­ment lawyer and U.S. attorney -got rave reviews from the Hepublicans he met Wednesday. 
The Senate's No. 2 Republican, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, called Alito a "very, very impressive intellect and a very well qualified nom­inee." Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas added, "Unless some­thing very different comes out that we don't know about, I certainly would intend to sup­port him." 
After a flurry of filibuster talk immediately following Alito's nomination, Senate Democrats now are taking a wait-and-see stance. 
"I don't know a single Democrat who is saying that it's time for a filibuster, that we should really consider it," said Dick Durbin of Illinois, the Senate's No. 2 Democrat, after meeting with Alito on Wednesday. "It's way too early." 
Nelson said Alito had assured him "that he wants to go to the bench without a political agenda, that he is not bringing a hammer and chisel to hammer away and chisel away on existing law." 
Durbin said the judge never refused to answer any of his questions-:-as Miers and John Hoberts had during their pri­vate interviews -and that Alito told him he saw a right to privacy in the Constitution, one of the building blocks of the court's landmark 1973 Roe 
v. Wade abortion rights deci­sion. 
Alito said that when it came to his dissent on Planned Parenthood v. Casey, a case in which the 3rd Circuit struck down a Pennsylvania law that included a provision requiring women seeking abortions to notify their spouses, that "he spent more time worrying over it and working on that dissent than any he had written as a judge," Durbin recounted. 

Terrorism defendant confessed, FBI claims 
Associated Press 
ALEXANDRIA, Va. -After confessing to FBI agents that he joined al-Qaida and discussed plans to assassinate President Bush, an American student wrote a letter to his parents saying that "everyone makes mistakes." 
"I know this will be difficult for you ... but I've been detained here in Saudi Arabia for some charges of terrorism," wrote Ahmed Omar Abu Ali, 24, who is on trial in federal court for conspiracy to assassi­nate the president, providing support to al-Qaida and other charges. 
"It seems like I will spend some years in jail. I know that you raised me to be a good per­son, but everyone makes mis­takes, and the best people are the ones that learn from their mistakes," he wrote. 
Jurors at Abu Ali's trial heard excerpts of the letter during testimony Wednesday, but were told nothing of the confession he made to the FBI before writ­ing the letter. The September 2003 confession is inadmissible because FBI agents, who had traveled to Saudi Arabi to ques­tion Abu Ali, ignored his request for a lawyer. 
Prosecutors are relying instead on a confession Abu Ali gave to the Saudis shortly after his arrest in June 2003 in Medina, where he was attend­ing college. 
Defense lawyers contend Abu Ali gave a false confession after being tortured by Saudi securi­ty forces. The government denies that Abu Ali was mis­treated. 
Abu Ali volunteered to write the letter at the end of his four­day interrogation, and asked FBI agent Luke Kuligoski to deliver the letter to his parents in Falls Church, Kuligoski testi­fied Wednesday. 
The letter contains no explicit admission of guilt by Abu Ali, but prosecutors believe the let­ter is evidence that Abu Ali was not coerced into confessing. 
Also Wednesday, FBI agents testified that they found numer­ous suspicious items in Abu Ali's bedroom in the family's Falls Church apartment, includ­ing a book written by Osama bin Laden's top deputy Ayman al-Zawahri, a magazine devot­ed to handguns and an article praising the Sept. 11 attacks. 
Prosecutors learned late Tuesday and early Wednesday that they could not present tes­timony from several witnesses, including an expert on al-Qaida and a cryptographer with expertise in decoding secret al­Qaida messages. 

PLea.s.ejo~l/1... ilL$ for Gil/1... ~1/J...fOrVIA,at~ve pre.s.ei/J...tat~Ol/1... btj lA tec,h 1/J...OLOgtj Cl V\,cl WIALL Street expert 
Innovation --Challenges and Opportunities Industry Trends--Current and Future Aggressive Acquisition and Consolidation 
--Impact on the Software Industry and on Oracle 
Personal Views on Leadership 
Mendoza College of Business University of Notre Dame 

.--------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, November 3, 2005 The Observer+ NEWS page 9 

FYI while you were out 
IRAN 
Iranian governn1ent will fire 40 diplomats 
Associared Press ors in key posLo.; at sm~urity agnn­
cies. Some Iranians worry the 
TEHRAN -Iran's government president will bring back strict announced Wednesday that 40 social policies. ambassadors and senior diplo­J\hmadinejad has steernd tho mats, including supporters of Persian state into a more con­
warmer ties with the West, will bn frontational stanee in iLo.; dealingsfired, continuing a purge of with other nations, particularly in 
reformers as the regime takes an facing suspicions about whether increasingly tough stance at home Iran's nuclear program is illidtlyand abroad. trying to dnvelop nudear weapons.
The diplomatic changes are part a ehargn the rngimn denies. 
of a government shake-up by The president also raised a ultraconservative President storm of international eritidsm lao.;t Mahmoud Ahmadinejad that week by calling for Israel to be 
includes putting Islamic hard-lin-"wiped oil' the map." 



SALOH RoUGE 
(formerly Atria Salon) 
1 5 %off all services* 
• 
Specializing in Color & Cuts 

• 
Close to campus 


57 4.289.5080 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. • South Bend, IN www.salonrougeinc.com *discount with student ID, Mon-Wed 



UNIVERSITY 
~;~~~·::~~ft"~~=~~:=v~tmR~%.!"-f.Y.::\,~~AA~=:.'!:':r.N{?Cs:':M:::.~f}-s®$'%1 

OUTFITTERSIM 
Theft 
continued from page I 
tors wnrn men . .Johnson speculat­Pd this could ()(' the rna.o.;on rn1m's halls snem to bn thn thel't targeLo.;. 
"Pnrhaps as nwn, lthn pnrpntra­tors would bnl morn out of place in a wonwn's hall," lw said. 
J\ South Bend man, prnviously arrestnd by Nl>SP for illngally nntnring 1\lumni. was arrested again Monday for criminal trns­pass and falsn information after polico found him in possnssion of belongings stolen from Dillon resi­dnnts. including laptop comput­ers. jewnlry and l>Vl>s. Johnson said. 
J\ studnnt inside J\lumni spottnd tho man knocking on a door in attnmpts to entor the dorm just bdi1re I 0 a.m., Johnson said. 
Tlw student rneoj.,'llized the man -arrnstnd on 1\ug. 2:~ f(Jr crimi­nal tmsp<L'iS and servod a trnspa<>s notien on .Jan. 5 -and immedi­atnly eallnd NDSP, Johnson said. 
Oflieers arrnstml the man just south of Alumni. noar the Morris Inn. Dillon rnetor Father Paul Doyln said the possnssions were all idnntilied returned to Dillon rnsidonts. 
"It's a tough combination when we'ro all so trusting, when we open doors for pnople and leave our own door unlocked," Doyle said. "This is our home. We don't expm~t this but it happons." 
J\nd it's something Zahm rnsi­dnnLo.; 1~an attest to. 
.Johnson reportnd "suspicious aetivity" in Zahm on Oct. 27, wlwre students watched a man nnter an unlocked room. Suspidons arousnd. the students approadwd tim man. who said he was "looking for Gnorge." Since tlwy didn't know anyone by that namn, the studnnts calh~d NDSP, .Johnson said. 
By that limn, however, it was too latn. Johnson said thfl man ­doscribnd as "a male, white, 40 to 50 y1~ars old, with brown and gray hair, slightly balding with a widows peak and mustache, w1~aring gold-rim tintnd sunglass­es. a brown Carhart jacket, a blue shirt and blue jmms" -fled Zahm and rode oil' on a bike. 
"The investigation is eontinu­ing," Johnson said Tuesday. 
But for Zahm residents, the investigation has been going on for a whiln. The man in question is known around the dorm as "WD40," or "whitn d--bag age 40." 
"Everybody knows him," said junior Pat Knapp. who explained that the same man had been seen wandering around the dorm sev­eral times bcl(lro this latest inci­dent. 
Posters warning residents of Wl>40 are tacked through the halls and in the bathroom stalls. 
While this man is not directly linked to this year's rash of thefts -which Parrish said include live laptops, over $500 in cash, a number of wallets and DVD play­ers -students suggested he eould be a suspect. 
"I probably should have taken lthe signs) down," Parrish said. "I left signs up because the guys were n1ally upset." 
Hesident assistant Chris Bodington said he had never seen the "lurking" man, but had heard rumors. 
"It's just weird that somebody from off campus is wandering around the dorm," he said. Bodin1,rton recalled the story of a second-floor resident who went across the hallway for 20 minutes and came back to his room to lind money stolen. 
"Zahm's kind of a place with an opnn-door policy," Bodington said. 
But Wednesday night, there were a lot of shut doors. Bodington said he has begun to loek his doors, all the time. 
"Even if I'm just going to the fourth floor," he said. The locked-door policy is spreading across campus. 
"There's more locked doors ... definitely they're locking their doors," Morrissey rector Father Honald Vierling said. "We're a very welcoming community, not that we want to live this way behind locked doors, but we've got to respond to situations accordingly and create conditions so theft decreases." 
There have been two thefts this year in Morrissey, Vierling said. lie said the first incident involved a bicycle, and the other involved laptop computers, a wallet and watch. 
While only in his first year as Morrissey's rector, Vierling still spoke to a trend of increasing theft. 
"From what I understand, this is the first time we've been hit this way," he said. 
Keenan is also experiencing more problems this year, rector Father Mark Thesing said. 
"This stuff seems to run in cycles. We've had more ltheftsl this year than in past years," Thesing said. ''I'm a little con­cerned myself about the continua­tion of [these crimes). Often the rectors on the edges of eampus ­at places like Alumni, Dillon or Knott -have more of a problem than at places like Keenan where you have to walk in a bit )to reach the dorm)." 
Thesing said four thefts ­including two laptops, a cell phone, a wallet and an iPod ­occurred in Keenan during mid­to-late September. 
Despite these erimes, Thesing doesn't see any change in safety measures practiced by students. 
"The individuals from whom the items were stolen were visibly upset, however there has not been a general consensus [of anger) within the hall," Thesing said. "They aren't more vigilant and these incidents have not changed their behavior. There are those students who always lock their doors and then thern are those students who never lock their doors." 
Alumni rector George Rozum, who said he didn't consider theft 
PRO rEt!' 
Z\H\1! 

or trespassing to be a bigger problem in his dorm, agreed with Thesing about the issue of stu­denLo.; not locking their doors. 
"What can you do'?" Hozum said. "You tell people to lock th11ir doors and be earnful who they lnt in the outsidn doors, but people usually leave many doors unlm~knd anyways." 
This attitude, .Johnson said, is exactly what NDSI' wanLo.; to com­bat. 
"Don't let people you don't know in the residenen hall. Notrn Dame students are very politn, judicious," Johnson said. "Don't prop open loek11d doors or dnlfmt seeurity measures. Lock your room when you sleep or arn away for a f(~w minutes. If you see sus­picious activity, rnport it imml~di­ately. 
"We really nend student help to stop burglary." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at 
mhannaO1@nd.edu 

i:he campus store off campus'M 
located in the Martin's Supermarket Plaza 1 block east of Turtle Creek Apartments 243-4197 
THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, November 3, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

The progression of euthanasia 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTiSING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 . fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporcs.1@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as ~ccurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and colwnns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
QULstiom regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefCLaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observtt (USPS 599 2.-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Asuhscription w The Observrr ~ $100 for ooc ac:ademk yean $55 for one semencr. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send add.r~ correaions ro: Notre Dame. IN 46556.0779 Tht Observer Periodical postage paid u Notre Dame. P.O.&xn9 J.nd additional mailing'offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Norrc: D~rne, IN 46556-0779 
The Ohscrvet is a meml~t ofthe Associated Pros. All reproduction rights an: res(rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Megan O'Neil Bobby Griffin Joe Piarulli Kyle Cassily 
Alicia Conley Jack Thornton Viewpoint Scene Joey King Liz Byrum 
Graphics Matt Hudson Graham Ebetsch 
"If you allow it to occur," said Dr. Chris Feudtner of Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, "it will occur in cases where it is not ethical, period." Feudtner was referring to the Netherlands' legal­ization of euthanasia of newborns and infants pursuant to the Groningen University Protocol. The Protocol pre­scribes the killing procedures. The child must be in "hopeless and unbearable suffer­ing," so that "the parents and the physicians ... concur that death would be more humane than continued life." The Protocol codifies the informal Dutch practice under which newborns had been euthanized, usually for spina bifida, with no physicians prosecuted. 
The Netherlands were the first nation to legalize euthanasia for adults, allowing the physician to "ter­minate life on request or to provide assistance with suicide." That law, which took effect in 2002, allows a person of 12 years or older to be killed if he had made an advance written request for termination of his life if his suffering becomes "unbearable" with "no prospect of improvement." If the patient is between 12 and 16, the par­ent or guardian must agree to the killing. If the patient is between 16 and 18, the parent or guardian must be consulted. 
The Dutch get undeserved credit as trail-blazers in euthanasia. The United States may be the front-runner, even though our law does not permit a physician to kill the patient. Oregon allows assisted suicide, but that merely allows the physician to give the patient the means by which the patient can kill himself. While the law in the United States stops short of legalizing inten-

EDITORIAL CARTOON 
tiona!, direct and active killing of patients, as permitted in Holland (and Belgium), it broadly permits intention­al killing by terminal sedation or by withholding food and water. 
In 1997, in Vacco v. Quill, the Supreme Court upheld New York's pro­hibition of assisted suicide but gave the green light to physicians to provide "aggressive palliative care," in which the physician is supposed to intend only to relieve the patient's pain. His undisclosed intent, however, may be to kill the patient by "terminal sedation." Palliative care can be morally justified even if it unintentionally" shortens life. But, in the absence of exceptional proof of intent, the law cannot effec­tively determine whether the physician acted with the intent to relieve pain or to cause death. 
If the family and physician concur that the patient should die, terminal sedation, under the guise of pain relief, can be a convenient and practically undetectable means of homicide, beyond the effective reach of the law. 
The second, and legal, form of homi­cide of patients is withdrawal of nutri­tion and hydration. In American law, a competent adult has the legal right to refuse to take food and water whether administered normally or artificially. Incompetent patients may be denied nutrition and hydration if they had, when competent, expressed their desire to be so denied or, in some states, if such denial is in the best interests of the patient. In cases where the family and the physician agree that the patient should die, the issue never gets to court and the patient can be quietly starved and dehydrated to death. 
We have not formally legalized it, but we are further down the slippery slope of euthanasia than are the Dutch. We have, in effect, legalized homicide of patients by starvation and dehydration, when the family and physicians agree, without even the minimal procedures required in the Netherlands. 
Moreover, we have progressed beyond the allowance of private killing to killing by order of the state. In Roe 
v. Wade, the Court authorized the mother to kill her unborn child. The law does not mandate the killing. In the Terri Schiavo case, the state itself, in the person of Judge Greer, ordered that Michael, her husband, "shall cause the removal of nutrition and hydration" from Terri. The court man­dated Terri's exeeution. The only rea­son we heard about the Schiavo ease is because Michael Schiavo and Terri's parents disagreed and the court became involved. What Michael did to Terri happens routinely, without public notice, when the "caregivers" agree that the patient should be killed. 
As this practice becomes embedded in the culture, we can expect judges to rule that defective, incurable or even simply aged patients, can be presumed to desire what the Nazi theorists called a "merciful release." We can expect that sedation, starvation and dehydra­tion will give way to the painless injec­tion. And Schiavo already establishes that PVS, the persistent vegetative state, is an accepted excuse for execu­tion of a patient whose consent can be inferred even from the testimony of a hostile witness. We can expect the jus­tifications to go beyond PVS. 
So the Duteh may be the amateurs here. We are smarter, allowing the killing of the burdensome or unwanted without even the paperwork required in Holland. And maybe we will be smart enough to explain it all to our final Judge, who has a soft spot for babies and helpless people. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the Law School Faculty. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at plawecki@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


OBSERVER POLL 
Will you change your behavior based on the evictions at Turtle Creek and the stricter disorderly house ordinance? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 



SUbmit aLetter1 
to theEditor at ' 

WWNV.A.dsmcobsef\/e.r.com 11 
. -:::: "'*' . . . ' . . . . . ~:: 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Nobody realizes that some people expend tremendous amounts of energy merely to be normal. " 
Albert Camus philosopher 

THE 0HSERVER 




IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 3, 2005 page 11 
Saints are people too 
We have just celebrated the feast of All Saints. Because this great festival is celebrated in eonjunction with All Souls Day, there is a temptation to consign All Saints Day only to those men and women who 
Father Richard 

have been recog­
Warner

nized in a special way by the Church 
FaithPoint 

through their beati­11cation or canonization. After all, this is the way the Church acknowledges the holiness of life of a man or woman or adds their name to the canon or list of those declared to be in heaven with Cod. 
But we all know saints who have eome into our lives and whose holi­ness and elosnness to God are easily recognizable. And since the call to holiness is part and parcel of what it nwans to be a follower of Christ, each one of us is also ealled to be holy. 
On Nov. l, I 9X2, a Holy Cross priest who was consecrated as the first bish­op of Fortl'ortal, Uganda, died. lie was buried in the Holy Cross Community Cnmntery on Nov. 4. 
Father Vincent McCauley joined the Congregation of lloly Cross in order to serve some of the poorest people on earth in Bangladesh. Shortly after he arrived at his mission station, he was told by doctors that he had little time to live, and was told by his superiors that he had to return to the United States. McCauley spent some time at Lourdes on his way home, not to pray for a cure but rather to promise Mary that he would serve the Church as a Holy Cross priest in whatever way he could as long as he was alive. 
McCauley did not die, but spent sev­eral years raising money for the mis­sions in Bangladesh. Rather late in lire, he was appointed the superior of the then-new Holy Cross mission in Fort Portal, Uganda, and several years later, was consecrated as bish­op of that new diocese. His simple cathedral was at Virika, whieh rough­ly translated to Our Lady of the Snow -a curious title for a place in equa­torial East Africa. I asked him about this, and he showed me the perma­nent iee cap on the far distant Huwenzori Mountains, and told me that for many rural East African farmers. precipitation was a sign of God's pleasure and blessing. This was true, he said, even if it rained on a couple's wedding day. 
During the remainder of his life, McCauley served the East African Church and especially the poor con­stantly. lie received victims of the brutal Amin regime and assisted them with money and in every other way he could. lie knew that some of these people were taking advantage of a man known to be generous, but explained that he would rather be duped by a person taking advantage of his generosity than to deny help to someone who truly needed the money. 
And, for years, he suffered from a face cancer which caused serious dis­figuration as a result of more than 40 operations. But he accepted his fate, happy to be able to fulfill the promise to Mary made at Lourdes as a young man. 
McCauley was buried on Nov. 4, which was a chilly but sunny fall day. As the final prayers were said before his body was lowered into the ground, a small black cloud passed over the campus, and there were 15 or 20 sec­onds of very light snow flurries. I knew it was a clear sign of Our Lady of the Snows welcoming her faithful son into her Son's home. 
This Sunday is Mission Sunday on campus when money collected at the Basilica is given in its entirety to sup­port Holy Cross missions in Africa and Asia, including somo of those place where McCauley served God's people. 
And while the power of All Saints Day still lingers, it is important for us to realize that we know people who are holy, and we could describe the signs of graec that are part of their lives -accepting hardships or illness with a contagiously upbeat spirit, liv­ing out commitments with faithfulnnss when it was not easy to do so, show­ing special coneorn for students or for the poor, incorporating service into their lives or becoming people of prayer. 
We, too, are called to be holy peo­ple. 
Father Richard Warner is the direc­tor of Campus Ministry. 1/e can be contacted at Warner.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obsen•er. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Self-segregation not just racial 
Is Notre Dame dubbed a self-segre­gated campus because Asians have a propensity to hang out with other Asians, or Hispanics with members of their own ethnic minority group, and so on'! I am not about to deny that this takes placn. Yet I don't sec anything inherently wrong with this. 
If you take a look at the bigger pic­ture, you'll notiee that birds of a feather indeed l"lock together, even outside the raeial spectrum. Football players enjoy spending time together, just as musicians lind comfort and joy in each other's company. It's only nat­ural. Would you label this self-segre­gation? I wince at the word, with its negative connotation. I don't believe that pnople who elump together do so with the intent of shunning people dis­similar to them. They just happen to lind common ground and a strong foundation by which to form their relationships. 
As a minority myself, I understand the value of discussion among mem­bers of ones ethnic group. People of the same ethnic heritage tend to have similar experiences and are conse­quently more likely to understand each another. Dialogue in this setting about one's culture and outlook facili­tates a greater understanding and acceptance of oneself. College is a time to cultivate one's self-knowledge, which entails a certain degree of understanding in regards to one's roots. This is why I find it not only acceptable, but valuable for ethnic minority groups to come together. 
That isn't to say that people of the same ethnic background should always spend time with each other ­it's important to branch out and meet others who might disagree with one's beliefs or culture. After all, this is where learning in its most natural form takes place. 
Last year, I remember being sqme­what annoyed when I would see minority groups isolating themselves from others, perhaps because it seemed as though they were alienat­ing others. Now, however, I under­stand the need for some people to do this. Can you imagine how hard it would be to live in a foreign country, stripped of your family and the eom­forts of the food, music and culture you've been used to your whole life'! It's no wonder some minority students seek each other out and inevitably "self-segregate" themselves. 
If you truly want to learn about another culture and get to know peo­ple from other backgrounds and walks of life, take the initiative. Next timn you pass by an ethnic minority group at the dining hall, ask to join them. You just might learn something about yourself. 
Stephanie Yoshida sophomore Howard Nov. I 

Beyond media impressions 
Nov. l's editorial cartoon fea­tured a bloated body with two heads, labeled "Scalia" and "Thomas," with an open spot for a third head labeled "Aiito." Presumably the cartoonist meant that all three jurists were inter­changeable clones who advanced identical (and evidently unae­cnptable) views. 
Whatever that insinuation's value as a political slam, as a legal matter it is simply incor­rect. Alito has not always fol­lowed Scalia. Although Alito dis­sented in Casey, he later voted against a New Jersey limitation on abortion he considered incon­sisttmt with precedent. In Thomas v. Commissioner, Alito allowed a fired employee to sue her former mnployer for discrim­ination. Scalia sharply reversed Alito's decision. 
Nor would Scalia always vote with Alito. Justice Scalia cast the tiebreaking vote finding a ban on flag-burning unconstitutional, limiting the protections of the Free Exercise Clause to religious believers, and striking down mandatory prison sentencing. Those decisions dismayed politi­cal conservatives and were prob­ably inconsistent with Scalia's own opinions. But Scalia ruled as he believed the law required which shows he is not the right­wing hack some suggest. 
If confirmed, perhaps Alito will disagree with Scalia on these issues; perhaps he will not. No doubt the men will often vote together. But they will not always vote together, nor will they always vote the way political conservatives might like. Heject Alito or another judge if you must. But first respect them as individuals and evaluate them fairly by studying all of their cases, rather than resorting to petty and inaccurate stereotypes. 
David Mathues graduate student Off-campus Nov. 2 

Appreciating, seeking continued student support 
I want to take a minute to thank the over 800 students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross for their attendance at and enthusiastic participation in last Friday night's Fighting Irish Hockey game against Princeton. In addition, the outstanding per­formance from our Hockey Pep Band and the energy and support of the "Stanford Syndicate" were greatly appreciated by the team. While friday's result on the ice was disappointing, I was proud of the way the team bounced back the next night to beat Princeton 2-0. With your continued support, many more victories lie ahead of us -both at the Joyce Center and elsewhere. 
This Friday night, the Irish will face the strongest challenge of this young season when the Michigan Wolverines, currently ranked No. 1 in the nation, enter the JACC Fieldhouse. In previous years, free student admission to the biggest games has been limited to only 400 seats -but not this year. While the game will be sold out, an additional 400 tickets (total of 800) have been purchased for the exclusive use of ND, SMC, and IICC students for this game. Will you be among the XOO students to cheer the Irish to victory? As an extra incentive, I have arranged with our promotions depart­ment to guarantee that four students will win a round trip !light to Las Vegas or Orlando on Allegiant Air, and one student will have the chance to win free books for a semester from the Hammes Bookstore on Friday night. 
Thank you for coming out last wenknnd to cheer on the Irish Hockey team! Now, this Friday night at 7:30p.m., when the Notn1 Dame Fighting Irish take on the Michigan Wolverines, come out again and prove that there is no finer, louder, more enthusiastic college hockey student section than the JACC O'WACCOS at Notre Dame! 
Go Irish! 
Jeff Jackson Notre Dame head hockey cMch Nov. 2 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Thursday, November 3, 2005 
CD REVIEWS 

Antony's album a voyage of self-discovery 
By MICHAEL FRENCH 
Scene Critic 

If the cover art for this album isn't striking enough, the uniqueness of Antony's voice in the first two lines of "Hope There's Someone" -the album's first track -should be sufficient to draw in any listener. The first thought that comes to mind when listening to the album is the beauty of its vocals, fol­lowed closely by the question of whether it is a male or female singing those lyrics. 
Androgyny is Antony's specialty, and walking the line between male and female makes up a great part of the album's thematic substance. Case in point of this would be "For Today I Am a Boy," a song in which his voice is accom­panied solely by a simple piano melody that, by the end of the song, powers alongside one of the scant appearances album unmistakably dominated by Antony's voice and his deeply introspec­tive lyrics. While the tone of the album is founded primarily upon the combination of sparse piano melodies and Antony's quivering vocals, the pinnacle of the album comes on the aforementioned "Fistful! of Love," which deviates from the simplistic structure of the other nine songs. After Lou Reed's short spoken­word verses, it opens up as the other tracks do, with gentle guitar lines back­ing the ever-present piano. This, howev­er, is the end ofthe softness, as the song quickly picks up the pace and employs the bombast of trumpets, trombones, Reed's noodling guitar riffs and the only dominant drum line of the album. The lyrical strength of the song lies in the juxtaposition of Reed's sincere opening lines with Antony's symbolic violence ­"And I feel your fists I And I know it's out of love . . . And I feel your burning eyes burning holes I Straight through my heart." 

The album's chilling finale ·"Bird Gerhl" completes the voyage of self-dis­covery that progresses from the first words of the first track. Antony's trem­bling vibrato takes center stage once again, proclaiming ''I've been searching I For my wings some time I I'm gonna be born I Into soon the sky I 'Cause I'm a bird girl I And the bird girls go to heav­en." 
Contact Michael French at mfrenchl@nd.edu 

of a drum set to create one of the more memorable tracks on the album. Lines like "One day I'll grow up, I'll be a beau­tiful girl I But for today I am a child, for today I am a boy" emphasize the lack of gender and question of gender catego­rization that pervades throughout much of the album. 
The sheer splendor of Antony's voice and deep, haunting, yet hopeful lyrics are sufficient to put together an out­standing album, yet the band employs a series of guest stars to add, at times, indispensable depth to their tracks. 
While Devendra Banhart and Lou Reed-who's played s~ows with Antony on numerous occasions-are featured briefly at the beginning of "Spiralling" and "Fistfull of Love" respectively, it's the cameos of Boy George (that's right, Boy George) and Rufus Wainwright that have the greatest impact on the album. "You Are My Sister," features Boy George turning in an incredibly powerful 
performance, 
perfectly comple­menting Antony's lead. Wainwright sings lead on "What Can I Do?" a song that checks in at less than two minutes but proves to be another highlight on an album that is markedly devoid of low­
lights.

Recommended tracks: 'Hope Theres Someone,' 'For 
In spite of the 

Today I am a Boy' and 'What Can I Do?' numerous cameos, it is an 
Chicago pop-punk band still overshadowed 
list revolves around dark images of nightmares and death, a majority of these moments being products of some past or current heartbreak. The lyrics contain a few dry metaphors and, while not entirely bad, repeat the same theme over and over throughout the 43-minute duration of the CD. Whether it is their unusual coupling with some of the more upbeat riffs or Tony Lovato's whiny voice·, something is left to be desired. 
Each song follows the same general format, alternating between verse and chorus with a short interlude, before ending on a variation of the chorus or a repeated phrase that modulates the piece to a close. The vocals are solid enough, but not worthy of special atten­tion, which ends up hurting the songs where they are the sole melodic element strewn over top of bare guitar chords and drums. The same style of vocal har­monization is found in every song, which helps fill out the sound, but is distracted by the over use of reverb and techno effects, a major disruption in the track "Tonight Will Last Forever." 
Though the lis­tener may be left wanting more, MEST still man­ages to create a number of sim­ple yet addictive riffs, a trait high­ly sought after and hungrily consumed in today's pop mar­k e t p I a c e . Melodies from 
By TREVOR GASS Scene Critic 

If a figurative snapshot were to be taken of MEST's latest release, "Photographs," the result could be summed up as following -three chords, one theme. 
The ten-year-old Chicago-born pop­punk band is frequently compared to other big fish in the genre including heavy weights like Blink 182, Good Charlotte and Green Day -a testament to their inability to form a readily recog­nizable identity of their own. Photographs" takes a turn from their previous albums (with the help of pro­ducer John Feldmann, vocalist from the group Goldfinger) into the angst-driven realm of hopeless troubles and love gone wrong, all delivered under a guise of cheerful chords and repetitive melodies. 
"Photographs" develops a darker image of MEST, pushing it more towards the emo side of the pop-punk spectrum. Almost every song on the twelve-track 

several son'gs

Recommended tracks: 'Tonight will last forever,"Last 
manage to imbed

Kiss,"Photographs' and ~s His Heart Dies' 
themselves into your head (for 


better or for worse). Some of the catchi­er tunes can be heard in "Photographs" and 'This Time." Though the attractive melodies from songs like "Last Kiss" may manage to nestle themselves into your head, the actual lyrics, "Stare at you as you slit my wrists and as we share our last kiss I Hold me as we die" are probably not something you want to be caught singing to yourself while wait­ing for a professor to start class. 
Accompanying the CD is a bonus DVD that trails the band during its cross­country tour. The DVD provides several suggestions on how to get yourself arrested -the tasteless antics of some of the band members are in a league with what you might expect from Tom Green. 
Critics may debate whether or not you can have too much of a good thing, but what happens if you get too much of something mediocre? 
"Photographs" is one example. Lack of variation is what kills this album more than anything else, along with the empty feeling it leaves (in your pocketbook) when the realization sets in that nothing noticeably innovative has occurred. With some sounds found in "Photographs" reminiscent of Alkaline Trio, MEST, though displaying a knack for creating catchy melodies, is still overshadowed by its more popular cousins. For those who are fans of the above listed bands that MEST emulates, their earlier album "Destination Unknown" (2001) would be a good way to test the waters before plunging into "Photographs." 
Contact Trevor Gass at tgass@nd.edu 

1\y 1\0 B COSTA 
Srl'lll' Wrir,·r 
In thn music industry, a famous last nanw dons not always guaranl!w suc­rPss. Tlw sonwwhat dismal earnr~rs of BPn Taylor (son of' .Jamns) and Sean I.Pnnon an~ a t.r~stanwnt to how coming from a lwraldnd lngaey r~an have its own pitfalls. 
Ynt for Dam ian Marlny, 27, the youngnst son of' Bob Marlny and former Miss World Cindy Brnakspnarn, success and t.alnnt havn r~onw quitn easily. Fanw and global recognition are just bngin­ning to comn into his life. though, espe­cially al'tnr tlw mcrmt rnleasn of his nnw album. "Wnkonw to .Jamrock." 
A close musical family 
Damian Marley has had imnumsurable lu•lp from his brother Stephen Marlny, a wrdl-respnetml producer and performer in his own l'ight, who eo-produced "Wnkomn to .larnrock" with Damian Marlny. Thnir wllaboration shows on tlw CD, whieh is both scathing and wide­ranging in subjects addressed and divnrsn in the musical styles represented and nxplornd. 
Stephen Marley has often been joining Damian Marley on his rocent fall tour, which has been highlighted by numer­ous opening tour datos with U2. Damian Marley and his father are perhaps the world's best-known politically conseious and concurrently popular artists known today. During Damian Marley's rncnnt tour stop in Philadelphia before his first timn opening for U2, he spoke with The Obsnrvnr via tldnphonn. 
"Most of the shows we do with some brothers or siblings," he said. "I have at lrmst OJHl brother with me on stage ... you have morn nnergy with your best f'rirmd. I don't have to go too far in my life to find groat musieians or people to work with. I've been surroundnd by a very musical family and support my nntirn lif'n." 
The memory of Bob Marley 
Although Damian Marley was three wlwn his f'atlwr passed away, he feels that he still eontinues his father's musi­r~al lngacy in spirit. esp()(~ially since he is ronstantly working with his siblings on dtallnnging and experimenting with reg­gae and roots music. 
"Tiw master has come back on this rneord -it is multidimensional music. In a way, I'm saying that I have returned and am trying to create a culture of uplifting Hasta influence. I say that tho old-school styln lof rogganl is coming hack, and wn'rn creating a multi-gnnnr­ational fn<ding," said Damian Marley. 
Marley's Jah-conseienen songs on tho roeord arn full of ineisivn chants against tho corruption and sadnnss that perme­ates modnrn .Jamaica. Already a contro­vnrsial release in his home eountry, "Welcome to Jamrock" has come to be vinwed as an antithetical collection of anthems for tho current rnggan and dancehall times to dnf'inn the country's imago. Even though Damian Marlny acknowl­edges that he did not have a childhood like the impoverished lw describes in his songs, or even like his father's in the vil­lages of Kingston -he still feels that he can speak out against the cultural and political forces hurting his brethren. 

"The majority of citizens don't live a luxurious part of' life, so that song Ithe single I is depicting people who think 
they know about Jamaica, 
but really don't," he said. 
communities -eschnw­Marley has worked After the "Welcome to ing thn lightweight ganja Jamroek" single began to
tirelessly to bring a

inl'lunnced ramblings of mceive major radio air­artists like Elephant Man newfound sense of play during the summer and Shaggy in favor of' the intelligence and of 2005, the anticipation substance of political for Damian Marley's
history to the 

eommentary and melodie upcoming album of the 
current reggae 

mgn. same name became huge. "Some songs start with community. Humors spread in the 
just ideas ... may just be with one line. Sometimes I take good topics, things I feel and see, and use the vibe for the majority of lyries. But, many are also written to the bnat, so we get a centered beat, with a dancehall feeling. You can't come up with a plan or device with inspiration for music, it has to be natural," said Damian Marley on the conception of the music of"Wnleome to Jamrock." 
Continuing the tradition 
"Welcome to Jamrock" is Damian Marley's third studio album, following "Mr. Marley" in 1996 and "Halfway Tree" in 2001, for which he won a Grammy Award. Although "Halfway Tree" was highly praised by music crit­ics, it never really caught on commer­cially in the United States, mostly due to its lack of an infectious 
single. In "Welcome to 
"The master has come

Jam rock," Damian Jah, but it's about life, Marley made sure to back on this record -it is it's about finding the f'ix that problem by way to look at things
multidimensional music. 

writing the title track and say here is what
In a way. I'm saying that 

and first single, titled exists, here is why, "Welcome to I have returned and am here is why we must 
Jamrock." which has trying to create a culture see and understand," 
bonn called the "reg­he said.
ofuplifting Hast a 

gae song of the decade" by the New influence." Fresh addition to the York Times. Marley Canon 
The first single, Although Damian
Damian Marley

"Welcome to Marley is now the heir
musician

Jamrock," is about the to the Marley name, it side of Jamaica that does not mean that his often goes unmentioned. It speaks to the new album is an instant classic. people of the ghettos, the downtrodden Lyrically, "Weleome to Jamrock" is just and all of those in Jamaica behind the as powerful as "Trench town Rock," but plush tourist facades that have come at its droning dancehall vibrations hinder 
reggae community that 
Damian Marley, the youngest child of the legend himself'. could be releasing the most aware and innovative record from a Marley family member in years. 
When "Welcome to Jamrock," the full­length album, was finally released on September 1:3, it entered the Billboard Top 200 Albums chart at No. 7, which was the biggest opening week ever for a reggae artist in the United States. A powerful record founded upon epic lyri­cal observations of society and violence, it has found a fan base that none of his previous work was able to. Damian Marley has worked tirelessly to bring a newfound sense of intelligence and his­tory to the current reggae community, and even the pop community, by not straying from subjects that seem a bit 
uncomfortable. 
"My music is about 

4. "Lion In ·nw MOI'Iling"-Julian M~u·Jcy 
it from exploring the dark cornors of' Jamaiean culture like his f'athor's early albums did. 
However, Damian Marley doesn't ven­ture into pop territory like his brother Ziggy Marley did during the 1990s either, nor does he copy much of' any­thing his family has done in the past. In looking to the present reggae sceno, Damian Marley has presumably found a comfortable niche. Preferring to blast vocal rhythms at numerous subjnets instead of holding a guitar, Damian Marley is able to redefine Marlny-stylo reggae, but at times just adds to the noise being created in roggae's current hip-hop/daneehall craze. 
Listeners looking for crazy beats should look to Kanye West's recent "Late Hegistration" or Sean Paul's "Thn Trinity." Co-producers of "Wokomo to Jamroek," Damian and Stevo Marley, arn hardly reggae's answers to Dr. I>rn. Still, this Grammy Award winn<~r (for 2001's "Halfway Tree") does bring the verbal rants to some phenomnnal crescendos on songs like "Pimpa's Paradise" and "The Masler lias Come Back." 
An album that will mako you get up, stand up and danco, "Weleome to Jamroek" is a fresh addition to the Marley canon, even though it's more about "Top 40" accessibility than Marley-esque gravitas. 
Contact Bob Costa at rcostal@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy wnyc.org 

Each of Bob Marley's five sons Is helping to preserve his legacy. Damian and Stephen Marley co-produced "Welcome to Jamrock" and often tour together. 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 3, 2005 
NBA 


Iverson scores 31, but Philly falls in Detroit 
James nails half-dozen three pointers as Cleveland rocks Charlotte 109-87 
Associated Press tained the cushion easily throughout its season opener. AUBURN HILLS, Mich. --The Philadelphia lost to Milwaukee only difference was the coaches. 117-108 in overtime at home on 
Richard Hamilton scored 37 Tuesday night, opening night in points to lead the Detroit Pistons the NBA. past the Philadelphia 76ers 108­88 on Wednesday night in a Cavaliers 109, Hornets 87 game that looked a lot like their The first one caused a stir, the first-round series six months ago. next two a commotion. And 
With Flip Saunders taking when LeBron James sank his Larry Brown's place in Detroit fourth straight 3-pointer in less and Maurice Cheeks replacing than two minutes, everyone in Jim O'Brien, the Pistons were the building was on their feet still too tough on defense and begging for more. balanced on offense for the "It was amazing," Cavaliers. Sixers. forward Donyell Marshall said. 
Philadelphia's Allen Iverson "We were just like the fans, we scored 31 points, but he didn't wanted him to keep shooting, have much help --much like in too." Detroit's 4-1 series victory en James, playing his first regu­route to its second straight trip to lar-season game with new team­the NBA Finals. mates brought in to help get him 
Chris Webber had 16 points, to the playoffs, made six 3-point­but he was scoreless in the third ers and scored 31 points as quarter, and the other three Cleveland won its season opener starters failed to score more than over the New Orleans Hornets on eight. Wednesday night. in an overtime win at Williams, the third overall selec­10 rebounds in the season open­
The Pistons unveiled their Philadelphia, Redd scored a tion in the 2005 draft. "I've been er for both teams. 2005 conference championship Bucks 110, Nets 96 career-high 41 as the Bucks beat in them a lot in college and I Tyson Chandler scored 11 banner before the game, then Michael Redd says he doesn't New Jersey Wednesday night. don't see why it should be differ­points, including two shots in took control for good in the first feel the need to carry the With point guard T.J. Ford ent now." overtime that gave the Bulls a quarter. Milwaukee Bucks as much as back after missing last season The last game Williams played four-point lead, and grabbed 11 
Detroit, which never trailed, last season. In the first two with a spinal cord injury and No. in that counted was the NCAA rebounds. led by 10 midway through the games, that's exactly what he's 1 draft pick Andrew Bogut show­championship, when North Darius Songaila hit a 3-pointer quarter while holding the Sixers done. ing promise in the middle, Redd Carolina beat Williams' Illinois that tied it in the final seconds of to 2 of 13 shooting and main-A night after scoring 30 points said he doesn't feel the pressure team for the national title. He regulation and finished with 11 
to carry the load every night. made his flrst NBA shot --a 3-points. pointer --in the second quarter The Bobcats led by 25 in the Celtics 114, Knicks 100 Wednesday and beat the third­third quarter and were ahead 
Ricky Davis scored nine of his period buzzer with a 61-foot 89-68 going into the fourth only 27 points in overtime, when the shot. to see it disappear. Boston Celtics went on a 9-0 run Duhon hit a 3-pointer from the to beat New York in the season Rockets 98, Kings 89 corner with 34.1 seconds left in opener on Wednesday night and Houston Rockets coach Jeff regulation, and Songaila hit one spoil Larry Brown's debut as Van Gundy called Jon Barry at from the top of the key to tie it at Knicks coach. home on Tuesday and delivered 98 with 5.1 remaining. 
Paul Pierce had 30 points and a terse, motivational speech over Gerald Wallace then inbounded 12 rebounds, and Delonte West the phone. the ball from the sideline to had 14 points, nine rebounds If Van Gundy keeps getting Raymond Felton, who missed a and nine assists for the defend­these kinds of results, he might three from the top of the key as ing Atlantic Division champions. be calling more of his players. time expired. Stephan Marbury scored 22 and Barry scored 24 points, Eddy Curry had 19 points and outscoring Houston stars Yao Lakers 99, Nuggets 97, OT eight rebounds in his first game Ming and Tracy McGrady and Welcome back, coach! since learning of a heart problem leading the Rockets to a win over Kobe Bryant welcomed Phil that led to his trade to New York. the Kings on Wednesday night. Jackson back to the Lakers in 
Van Gundy told Barry he was style Wednesday night, sinking Jazz 93, Mavericks 82 disappointed in the veteran a 23-foot jumper with 0.6 sec­
Although he didn't start in his guard's effort at recent practices. onds left in overtime to lift Los NBA debut, Deron Williams had Angeles to a victory over the a nearly perfect finish. Bulls 109, Bobcats 105, OT Denver Nuggets. 
Utah's rookie point guard had Chris Duhon had the first triple Bryant, who finished with 33 18 points and three assists, and double of his career, and the points, swished home the game­played the entire fourth quarter Chicago Bulls rallied from a 25-winner, than ran with clenched while the Jazz rallied to beat the point deficit to an overtime victo­fist to the other end of the travel-weary Dallas Mavericks ry over the Charlotte Bobcats on court, chest-bumping with 
AP Wednesday night. Wednesday night. Deveau George and celebrating "I just feel comfortable being in Duhon finished with 18 points a victory in Jackson's first game those type of situations," said on 5-of-9 shooting, 12 assists and back with the Lakers. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED-Beachwalk resort-Rent this 3 bed-FOR SALE: SPRING BREAK­ROOM HOMES room 2.5 bath home in Beachwalk NO FOOTBALL TIX. 289-9280 OR Early Booking Specials-NOTICES WANTED MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 Resort Community located in VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR $$: FREE Meals & Drinks ­
Michigan City, IN. www. victorytickets.com $50 Deposit ­
Ten girls from the Class of 2005 House for rent. 3 BR, 1 BA, 2 Car Great for football weekends! 800-234-7007 SPRING BREAKERS looking for a place within walking Gar. Clay Area. $700/mo. 574-210-Close to shopping and riverboat BUYING & SELLING NO FOOT-www.endlesssummertours.com Book Early and distance to NO to rent for the 8308. gambling $700/weekend. BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. Save Lowest Prices Tennessee weekend. Call Andrea Weekly rates also available. 273-3911. Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! Hottest Destinations at 651-308-9285. KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES Email caldanaro@yahoo.com 5 Days from $299! Includes Meals, 
BOOK 15=2 FREE TRIPS FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07 MTV Celebrity Parties! OR CASH FREE MEALS/PARTIES SCHOOL YEAR. CLOSE TO CAM­
PERSONAL

BY 11n PUS. 4 BEDROOMS, UPTO 10 Walk to NO. Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica Highest Commission BEDROOMS. CALL 315-5032 ASK Rooms for weekends. Best rates. From $499! 
FoR RENT
Best Travel Perks FOR KRAMER. Kitchen. 272-0842. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Campus Reps Needed! www.sunsplashtours.com Do not go it alone. PromoCode:31 www.springbreak­1-800-426-771 0 YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart-KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS 1 If you or someone you love needs travel. com 
ments available for 06-07 school SINGLE FAMILY HOME AVAIL-confidential support or assistance, 1-800-678-6386


TICKETS

1-bedroom apt 1-mile from NO in year. Call today 235-7234. ABLE. 140 N.SHORE BLVD. 3 please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 
quiet historic neighborhood, BEDROOMS, 1.5 BATHS. GREAT 1-7819. 19 year old seeking his dignity $575/month. Rooms in private home for rent dur-FOR PROFESSORS,STAFF, OR WANTED: For more information, Lost on futon on Oct. 14 Call ing NO football weekends or other GRAD STUDENTS. CALL 315-NO FOOTBALL TIX. TOP $$ PAID. see our bi-weekly ad in THE If found, contact Fritz 
283-0325 ND-SMC events. Call 243-0658. 5032, ASK FOR KRAMER. 251-1570. OBSERVER. Call 634-4877 
~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
AROUND THE NATION 
Thursday, November 3, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 15 
MLB

College Hockey Top 20 
/.earn record Prell. 
1 Colorado College 7-1·0 3 2 Maine 7-1-0 5 3 Michigan 5-1-1 1 4 Cornell 1·1·0 2 4 North Dakota 5-2·1 6 6 Vermont 6-0-0 11 7 Minnesota 3·2·1 7 8 Michigan State 3·1-1 10 9 Wisconsin 4·1-1 12 10 Denver 3·3·0 9 11 Boston College 2-2·1 8 12 New Hampshire 2·2·1 13 13 Ohio State 2·3·1 4 14 Northern Michigan 5·1·0 14 15 Harvard 1·0·0 NR 16 Miami 3-1-0 19 17 Alaska-Fairbanks 3-2-1 20 18 Bemidji State 5-1-0 15 19 Boston University 1·2·0 16 20 St. Lawrence 4-2-0 18 

Men's Fencing Coaches' Poll 
team J>retJ. 

1 Ohio State 2 
2 Penn State 1 
3 St. John's (NY) 3 
4 NOTRE DAME 4 
5 harvard 6 
6 Columbia 5 
7 Princeton 7 
8 NYU 8 
8 Pennsylvannla 10 
10 Air Force 9 
the team's president, David Montgomery. Gillick replaces Ed Wade, who never took the team to the playoffs. 
Phillies contract new GM in Gillick

Women's Fencing Coaches' 

Poll Associated Press of'fs in eight years on the secutive winning season Houston Astros general
team Prev. 

job. and fourth in five years, manager Gerry llunsieker, 1 NOTRE DAME 1 PliiLADELPIIIA -Pat "We found the right per­but they missed the play­Phillies assistant general 2 Ohio State 2 
Gillick has turned losing son," Phillies president offs for the 12th straight managers Huben Amaro 3 Penn State 3 
teams into winners every­David Montgomery .said. year and 21st time in 22 .Jr. and Mike Arbuekle, and 
4 Harvard 4 
where he's been. His job "He's an outstanding seasons. Cleveland Indians assistant 
5 Columbia-Barnard 5 
now is to build a champion leader." "The challenge here is to general manager Chris 
5 Northwestern 6 
from a team that hasn't Gillick is joining an win five more games than Antonetti. 
7 Pennsylvania 7 
been able to get over the organization that has lost last year," Gillick said. "Ed Amaro and Arbuckle will
8 Princeton 8 
top. more games (8,831) than Wade put together a good remain in their roles along
9 St. John's (NY) 10 
Gillick, whose resume any U.S. major profession­foundation, and they've with manager Charlie
10 Duke NR 
includes two World Series al team and hasn't been to been winning in the 80s Manuel and the rest of the titles and nine playoff the playoffs since 1993 -the last four years. Usually baseball stall appearances with three when the Phillies lost the you come to a club that "Charlie's a good base­teams, si!-,l'Jled a three-year World Series to Gillick's needs major rebuilding, ball man and he's been contract Wednesday to Toronto Blue Jays. reconstructing, remodel­around the gamn for a 
Women's Cross Country become the Philadelphia Philadelphia went 88-74 ing, whatever you want long time," Gilliek said. Phillies' new general man­this season and finished call it. That's not the case "lie can evaluate players ager. He replaces Ed one game behind NL wild­here." mentally and physically. A
team points 
Wade, fired after failing to card winner Houston. It The 68-year-old Gillick lot of managers can't do
1 Duke 390 
get the team into the play-was the Phillies' third con-was chosen over former that."
2 Stanford 377 3 Michigan 361 4 NOTRE DAME 353 5 Airzona Slate 339 
IN BRIEF

6 Illinois 325 
7 BYU 306 
8 Columbia 299 Willingham happy at UW passion for Husky football. So, I think Pacers, Artest solid in win 8 North Carolina State 284 SEATTLE -At a distance, Tyrone I am in a great place." OHLANDO, Fla. -Hon Artest 10 Colorado 274 Willingham's once-sailing career Maddux nabs 15th Gold behavnd pnrfnctly in his return to the 
appears to be plunging into the Glove, Vizquel earns lOth NBA on Wednesday night. lie played Pacific Ocean. NEW YOHK -Chicago Cubs pitch­pretty well, too. 
Ilis Washington Huskies, not long er Grog Maddux won his 15th Gold Artcst had 16 points, three ago the kings of the Pac-1 0, are 1-7 Glove on Wednesday, one shy of the rebounds and five assists, and the and last in conference. They have record sharnd by pitcher Jim Kaat Indiana Pacers began lifn without lost 13 consecutive l'ac-1 0 games and third baseman Brooks Hobinson. Heggie Miller with a 90-7X vietory entering Saturday's home game Maddux set a record for Gold over the Orlando Magic.




around the dial 
against Oregon State. Gloves won in the National League Artnst started 1-of-7 from tlw field Now Willingham is at the bottom of -Kaat won 14 in the ALand two in but shook ol'l' the rust in the se1:ond NBA big-time collnge football in the same the NL. It was the second straight half and led the Pacers to victory with week his Notre Dame successor, Gold Glove for Maddux and 15th in s1wcral big plays and stmng defnnsn.
Indiana at Miami 8:00 p.m., TNT 
Charlie Weis, signed a 10-year exten­16 seasons. Ilc finished 4-of-14 from tlw lloor and
Phoenix at L.A. Lakers 10:30 p.m., TNT 
sion to beeome a fixture at the San Francisco shortstop Omar 6-of-9 from thn free throw linn. 
sport's most storied program. Vizquel won his 1Oth Gold Glow~. his He eonvnrted a thn)e-point play and But Willingham sees what others first in the NL aftnr the nine straight made two 3-pointers -all in a 2­COLLEGE FOOTBALL do not. he earned with the Cleveland minute span late in the third quarter "Obviously, the record says more Indians from 1993-01. -that helped Indiana build an 11­
Pittsburgh at Louisville 7:30p.m., ESPN2 
than anything else. And, obviously, I "I was doubting that people were point lead. am not doing well," he said. "But if going to vote for me again," said Jermaine O'Neal scored 19 points. you are saying [how isl Tyrone Vizquel, who moved past Luis Austin Croshere added 16 and the 
PGA Willingham? He is at pnace with him­Aparicio into second place for Gold Pacers were 7-of-19 from bnhind the The Tour Championship presented by self. Gloves won by a shortstop, trailing 3-point line. "He's at a great university that has only Ozzie Smith's 13. "I think this Steve Francis lnd the Magic with 15
Coca-Cola 11 :30 a.m., ESPN 
great leadership, that has great tra­has been the most emotional Gold points, nine rebounds and seven dition, and whose fans have great Glove." assists 
page 16 The Observer + S-PORTS Thursday, November 3, 2005 
NCAA fOOTBALL 


USC, UCLA on an undefeated collision course 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -The city of Angels has been· a perfect col­lege football town this fall. 
Two of the nation's five unbeaten teams are separated by a 20-minute freeway trip, depending, of course, on crosstown traffic between Southern California near down­town and UCLA over in Westwood. 
"It's a great thing for our city of Los Angeles," USC offensive 
guard Fred Matua said. 
Top-ranked USC and No. 7 UCLA have 8-0 records and are on a collision course. They'll meet at the Coliseum in early December with much more than just city bragging rights on the line. 
The Pac-1 0 championship, a spot in the national title game and even the Heisman Trophy could all be riding on the out­come. 
The Trojans and Bruins haven't gone into the rivalry 

game with perfect records in more than a half-century. Both were 8-0 when they met in 1952, a 14-12 USC victory. But the Trojans lost to Notre Dame the following week. 
"It would be awesome to go a couple more games and have a chance to be in a position like that," USC coach Pete Carroll said of the Dec. 3 showdown. "I know their fans and their fol­lowers have just got to be loving it." 
The Bruins, who have lost six straight to their crosstown rivals, realize they're still rele­gated to second billing on the college football marquee in Tinsel Town. 
"We're a good team, but we're not good enough to make any claims," said coach Karl Dorrell. who went 12-13 in his previous two years at UCLA before the Bruins' breakout. 
"We're young, still growing as a team and we need to keep people focused on the task at hand. 
"We're excited about being in this position, having the recog­nition we have right now. But now we have to prove each and every week that we deserve to be in that position." 
Along with the shiny records, the Trojans and Bruins have star power. 
USC quarterback Matt Leinart, the 2004 !Ieisman win­ner, again is a leading con­tender, although backfield-mate Reggie Bush might be the front­runner. 



FAITHPOINT 
Thursday, ·November 3, 2005 

-W-LIVE IT!! 
A Rachel Thelen is this week's example of a Notre Dame student's passionate commitment to their faith and to serving others. Rachel is a Theology and Sociology major with a minor in Education, Schooling and Society. Rachel has made service a cornerstone ofher Notre Dame experience during her four years here. She has participated in the Urban Plunge, a CSC seminar to Appalachia, and a Summer Service Project at the Holy Family Shelter in Indianapolis, IN. This past summer Rachel worked with High School students from all over the country at NDVision. She worked as a small group leader with students as they sought to deepen their faith and discover their vocation. This school year Rachel has continued her service to others in two distinct and important ways. Rachel serves as a Catechist for 8'h grade students at St. Pius X parish. Rachel's help is especially important since these students are preparing to receive the Sacrament of Confirmation in the spring. With all that written, this article still has not even brushed the surface ofRachel's most important ministry this year. Rachel is also a proud RA ofWalsh Hall. She is a leader in the Hall and specifically ofa floor ofyoung women as they progress and grow through their college years. This final ministry ofRachel's is truly unceasing as she makes herself available to help in whatever way Walsh residents need. Thank you Rachel for sacrificing so much ofyour time, and 


devoting so much faith and energy to helping the Notre Dame community. 
Let us know who out there is making a differenre! 
Send nominations to Brian Vassel at bvassel a)nd.edu 
Catholic Q&-A • Is there anything that I ran do to make the Mass a more welroming experienre for my Protestant friend who"s never been before? 
You have hit on a point ofpartiqular importance to the Catholic Church today ...how we can better welcome people into the Catholic community, beginning with their first visit. Now, before you Catholics claim that the Church does a tine job of welcoming folks already because we have a few greeters at the door, I challenge you to think through the Mass from the perspective of one who has never attended one before. You may then be able to see why the Catholic Church does not have the reputation ofbeing a particularly welcoming Church to the average '"outsider." Compared to the worship service in many Protestant communities, where handouts provide an "order of worship" (which may vary from week to week) and offer guidance in every response and pmycr, the Mass can seem very complex, foreign, and unfriendly. When a visitor comes to Mass for the first time, they often can't help but feel inadequate or even dumb: not knowing the 'correct responses, actions, and musical "Mass parts'' that are recited or sung with little-to-no apparent thought; ignorance of when to change posture (fyi ... there 15 posture changes in the average Mass); and a general fear of what to do when it comes time for Holy Communion. By pointing this out, I don't mean to say that something should be eliminated from the Mass in an effort to be more welcoming; rather I mean to make YOU, the "average Catholic," aware of this perception by non-Catholics so that you can make the Mass more inviting to those who are perhaps looking in through the proverbial stained-glass windows. 
So, when you bring someone to Mass for the first time, try the following. Before Mass begins, explain to them that the Mass will probably be unlike any other worship experience they've had, and encourage them to just follow along to the best oftheir ability. Explain the reason for the ritual present in the Mass: that the prayers, actions, readings, and Eucharist we celebrate come to us from the earliest Christians and are a means ofuniting ourselves in common worship with the other billion Catholic Christians in the world. Let the visitor know that it's O.K. tl.1r them not to do everything, especially if they don't yet know WHY they'd be doing it (e.g., kneeling, making the Sign of the Cross, etc). Prepare your friend for the lengthy Nicene Creed (the text ofwhich is in the Gather hynmal, #139), and tl.1r the Lord's Prayer by telling tht.'ln to cut off after the "and deliver us from evil" part, so that they aren't the only one continuing on when the priest interjects. Also, while you're explaining to them the Church's limitation of Holy Communion to Catholics (more to come in next week's Q&A), offer them the option ofgoing up to the Communion minister to receive a blessing. 
Once Mass begins, if they see something they don't understand (and trust me, they will), offer to explain it after Mass. (NOTE: This of course puts the burden on the Catholic to know why you do the things you do, and if you don't know, to at least know where you can find the answer::;... and never hesitate to ask a priest or Campus Minister for more info!) If you're able to do so quietly during Mass, coach your friend along by giving them a "heads-up" on what's coming next in the Liturgy. 
Through these small but meaningful gestures, all ofus can begin to make the Catholic Church and her Liturgy a more hospitable place for visitors, following the welcoming example ofJesus Christ. 
Sen4 your questions to Brett Perkins 'lt Perkins.26@nd.edu! 
C-M 
Campus Ministry 

Ph01U!1-7800 Web campusministry.nd.edu Main Office 319 CoMo Retreats Office 114 CoMo 
Sunday Scriptures-32ndSundayin Ordinary Time 
1st  2nd  Gospel  
Wisdom  1 Thessalonians  Matthew  
6:12-16  4:13-18  25:1-13  




Tonight I 1/5 
Irons Sharpens Iron Ministry (lSI) 329 Co-Mo IOPM 


Saturday I 1/5 
Vigil Mass -Basilica 
30 minutes after game 

Vigil Mass -Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 

Sunday 11/6 
Mass -Basilica 8:00AM I O:OOAM 11:45AM 

Spanish Mass -1:30PM St. Edward's Hall Chapel 

monday 11/7 
Eucharistic Adoration U:OOAM -9:00PM(M-TH) Co-Mo Ch.apel 
Tue1day I 1/8 

1111:1 

Catholic. Fellowship. Here. 
Cavanaugh Hall Chapel 
8:30PM Topic: Catholic Social Teaching with Father Bill Lies, CSO 


Wedne1day I 1/9 
Theology on 'l'ap lO:OOPM Legends Topic: Catholic Q&A ... You've Got Questions? We've Got Answers! 
... 
Thursday, November 3, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 

Epstein downplays bad relations with Lucchino 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Tlwo Epstein fled Fenway Park in a gorilla eos­tunw on his last day as Boston Hnd Sox gerwral managor. It was llalloween, and the TV paparazzi w1~rn none the wiser. 
Yes, Epstein said, it was irH~onvm1innt to havn rnportnrs 1~ampnd out at his home. But lw didn't give up what had bnnn his drnam job bn!~ausn or tlw soml'linws sufToeating intnrnst in tlw loeal bas1~ball team. a fascination that bneanw a f'r!m­zy al'tl~r 1\pstnin hnlpnd build tlw HPd Sox into World Sorins rhampions in 2004. 
It was "unl'ortunatn," ho added, that dntails or his eon­tract nngotiations with longtime nwntor Larry l.ucchino lnaked out. And it's true that tlw H1~d Sox lowballod him -the most successful general manager in l'ranehise history -as if he worn still a kid. 
But that's not why he left, oitlwr. 
A "multitude" of rnasons, taken together, persuaded Epstein to stop down as Hnd Sox c;M on Monday, just one year al'l!~r nnding Boston's X6-ynar tilln drought. In his first publie comments on thn dneision, Epstnin would not say exactly why he quit but said a break­down in the "process" eon­vinend him he couldn't stay. 
"You have to be ali-in," he said. "You have to believe in every aspnct of the job and the organization and your ability to stay and do the job the right way, with your whole heart and your whole soul. And in the ond, it just wasn't the right lit. It wasn't right." 
Now 31, Epstein was an 1X­year-old Yale undergrad when l.ueehino hirnd him in Baltimorn as an Orioles intern. lin l'ollownd l.ueehino to the San Dingo Padres and then to Boston bnforn the Hed Sox made working relationship. I think Larry and 1 like each other. As with any· long relationship, there are complexities.... But in the end, I want what's bnst for Larry. 
"He's done a lot for me. I owe him quite a bit, and I take that. to heart. Thirty years from now, when I look back on my rela­tionship with Larry Lucchino, I'm going sne it as a positive influence in my lil'e." 
Lucchino did 
not attend 

him, at the timn, Wednesday's
"Ifthere are reports

the youngnst gen­event -the only eral manager in of a power struggle member of the baseball history. or meddling on management Thn move paid group known as
behalfofLarry. that

ofT with thn~e "Theo and the straight playoff' really wasn't the Trio" to skip it. appearances -case. Owner John unprecednntnd in Henry acknowl­franchise history edged Lucchino's
Theo Epstein 

-and the '04 absence and said championship. former Red Sox he wanted to But, along the general manager defend his chief way, thn boy GM executive person-outgrew the ally. father-son dynamic. Some "Larry Lucchino has turned aceused Lucchino of pushing his this franchise around in every protogc out in a grab for way, shape, or form," Henry greater glory. said. "We are all too willing to 
"If there are reports of a blame him for this.... I think power struggle or meddling on that's wrong. I think that's inac­behalf ol' Lurry, that really was­curate. n't the case," Epstein said. ''I've seen him blamed for "Essentially, 1 felt liko I had everything under the sun. I pretty much a free hand to run don't know how anyone can the baseball operation the way I legitimately think that the prin­saw fit. cipal owner is not ultimately 
"We've had a very successful responsible for what happens 

with the general manager. This was not Larry Lucchino pushing Theo out. 1 hold myself wholly responsible." 
On the verge of tears at one point, Henry was effusive in his praise of Epstein and called him "a remarkable young man" who selflessly tried to hire Moneyball maestro Billy Beane for the GM job before it was given to him. 
"I may not 100 percent agree with his decision. But I believe that a very large part of his decision is driven by a love for the franchise," Henry said. "This is a great, great loss. I have to ask myself', maybe I'm not fit to be the principal owrwr of' the Boston Hod Sox." 
Epstein's thren-ynar deal expirnd on Monday, leaving the team without a general manag­er or assistant CM heading into the offseason; Epstein's No. 2 man, Josh Brynes, is now the GM in Arizona. The team re­signed reliever Mike Timlin on Wednesday, but the announce­ment did not say which Hed Sox oflicial negotiatnd the dnal. 
The Bnd Sox nend to plug holes in tlw starting rotation and bullpnn that led to a first­round playoff sweep by tlw eventual World Snrins champion Chicago White Sox. 
NFL 
Redskins fight injuries and prepare for Eagles 
Defensive end Joe Salave'a injured in game against Giants 
Assuciatnl Press ASIIBUHN, Va.-After Phillip llaniels sprairwd his ankle, hn was in so much pain he dropped to his knee between plays. I lis l!~ammates were get­ting concerned. '"l:!wy ~ern t_elli.~lg r~w .to go out, llanrnls sard. I sard, Naw, we don't have nobody else."' Joe Salave'a said the only time his foot wasn't in pain was wlwn he was "taking a drink on tlw sidnlinf~S." Still, hn looked out onto the licld, realized tho del'nnsn was running out ol' playnrs and went hack in. "I didn't think it was a macho thing. Our numbers worn down," Salavn'a said. "You 
don't want to put your te·am­rnatns in that prndieamnnt, so I was abln to go back in, hobble around and make a couple of morn plays." 
Pnrhaps someone should be taking a roll call ol' healthy limbs wlwn Washington's defen­sivn linn has a mneting. Startnrs l>aninls, Salavn'a and Cornelius Griffin did not practice Wmlrwsday after limping ofT the l'ield for some or most of' Sunday's 3h-0 loss to the New York Giants. Baekups Cedric Killings and Aki Jones are also banged up. The Hedskins' defense had to borrow offensive linemen just to get through praetice. 
"I told thnm we need a sign­up sheet at the end of' practice: 'Sign up and try out for D-line,'" said Henaldo Wynn, the only healthy startnr. 
Grif'f1n lasted only two plays 
f'F1ANCIII!S McOOAMAND 


thursday
FARGO 
nov. 3 midnight 
fl lot CM1 h$pctn In th• '"'dc:Uo <.of nowhOf•· 
no cover nd/smc/hcc id req. 

FREE TOTS
legends.nd.edu 
against the Giants with a hip flexor and is listed as question­able for Sunday night's game against Philadelphia. Daniels is probable with his <Ul kin prob­lem, while Salave'a is question­able but plans to play even though hn needs several weeks of' rest. 
The injuries are coming at a tough time. 
Every body -able or not ­will be needed for the crucial division game against the Eagles. 
The loser will fall into last place in the NFC East. 
"We're about as short as I think I've ever seen a group ol' guys," said defensive tackle Brandon Noble, who has stayed around as an ad hoc assistant coach after season-ending knee surgery in September. · 
"There are guys that are not going to have a choice." 




lom"'S(hfe(k



;·and the 
Physi(ol Fitness 
rock and folk campus singer-songwriter 
plus band! 

Come early 
forTHEOC 
watch@ 

<A}FEN~T~NJ?M~ 
no cover nd/smc/hcc id req. legends.nd.edu 
... 

----------. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, November 3, 2005 
NHL 

Ottawa dominates Buffalo, earns 10-4 win 
trick for both Alfredsson and

Havlat's four goals 
Havlat. 


too much for Sabres 

Blackhawks 6, Blues 5 Associated Press Brent Seabrook will certainly 
savor his first NHL goal. 

BUFFALO, N.Y. -Daniel The rookie scored 35 seconds i\lfredsson has an intimidating into overtime, giving the message for the rest of the Chicago Blackhawks a victory NHL. Wednesday night over the 
"I don't think we hit our peak slumping St. Louis Blues. yet." he said after Ottawa's 10-"It's awesome," Seabrook 4 win over the Buffalo Sabres said. ''I'm thrilled right now. on Wednesday night. "I think I'm going to keep that puck." we can get better." Martin Lapointe had a goal 
Alfredsson and Martin Havlat and two assists, and rookie each scored four goals, and Pavol Vorobiev added a goal Dany Heatley added two more and an assist for the for the Senators, who won for Blackhawks, who blew a three­the ninth time in 11 games. goal lead in the third period They are off to their best start but recovered to snap a four­since entering the league as an game skid that included three expansion team in 1992. consecutive losses to Detroit. 
Alfredsson tied a pair of team Chicago (4-9-0) won for only records and set career highs the second time in eight games with four goals and six points. and improved to 1-6 against It was the first career four-goal Central Division foes. game for Havlat as well, and "The guys deserve a lot of the third time in three games a credit," Blackhawks coach Senators player has scored Trent Yawney said. "I mean, four times. Heatley had four they calmed down and went goals in an 8-0 win over back and played for the win. Toronto on Saturday. They played to win as opposed 
AP

"When the team plays well, to playing not to lose after a 
Daniel Alfredsson nets one of his four goals Wednesday night in a 10-4 win over Ottawa. He
good things happen for the lucky goal goes in. To keep our 
joined teammate Martin Havlat in the offensive outpour, as each scored four times in the victory.
individuals as well," Alfredsson  poise and composure like we  
said. "l got some good breaks  did was impressive."  
tonight and was  able to put  Seabrook hit  a  wrist shot  NHL  defensemen  with  18  really feeling it," Kings center  number and they're winning a  
them away."  from the right circle to the low  points  on  six goals and 12  Craig Conroy said. "He shoots  lot of games against you," Stars  
It was also the first time in  left corner of the net after tak­ assists.  it and it goes in the net. He  defenseman Philippe Boucher  
franchise history that Ottawa  ing a  pass from Vorobiev for  "It's more of an open game,"  could probably close his eyes  said. "They're clearly outplay­ 
had two four-goal  scorers in  the game-winner.  he said. "It's better for offen­ and score. It's pretty to watch."  ing us right now. We see them  
one game. The 10 goals were a  "Pavol made a  great pass,"  sive [defensemen]. I'm getting  LaBarbera  improved  his  five  more times this year. It's  
season high and the second­ Seabrook said. "I was trying to  more chances."  record to 7-1-0, beating Dallas  something that needs to  be  
most in franchise history.  get open and he found my  Visnovsky had six shots on  for the second time this season.  addressed."  
Alfredsson's comments aside,  stick."  goal, and while he contended  The Pacific Division rivals  Jussi Jokinen, Mike Modano  
it's hard to imagine Ottawa  that he  was  "lucky" to  score  met for the third time this sea­ and Martin Skoula scored for  
playing much better, especially  Kings 6, Stars 3  three times, his teammates  son, all in Dallas. The Kings  Dallas, 3-4-1 at home.  
after  its  offensive  display  The NHL's  new rules allow  said there's also a lot of skill  have won the last two, outscor­ Stars coach Dave Tippett  
against the Sabres.  defensemen  to  be  more  involved.  ing the Stars 13-5.  went with backup goalie Johan  
"To have two guys score that  involved on the offensive end,  "He's in the zone where he's  "Sometimes teams have your  Hedberg over Marty Turco.  
many goals, I don't know if I've  and Lubomir Visnovsky is tak­ 
ever been around that type of  ing full advantage.  
thing," Senators coach Bryan  Visnovsky scored three goals  
Murray said. "It is amazing and different, and doesn't hap­pen very often." Heatley extended his club­ for his first career hat trick, and rookie Jason LaBarbera made 29 saves to lead the Los Angeles Kings past the Dallas  Notre Dame  
record point streak to begin a  Stars Wednesday night.  
season to 11 games, and Jason Spezza had a career-high four assists.  Sean Avery, Jeff Cowan and Pavol Demitra also scored for the Kings, 6-2 in their last  Symphony 
It was the fifth  career hat  eight games. Visnovsky leads  
Orchestra  
with special guests  
BEST WASH  • 2-Step Underbody Protectant ili 52694 State Road 933 1 South BerTd, indiana 46637 !• Spot-Free Just 2 miles north of Notre Dame on U.S. 31 1 Rinse Offer good at the South Be11d tocatio11 only l  I i inds Friday/ November 4/ '05  
k--------------------------------~  9:00 pm (following the pep rally)  
~ ffVffi &¢&.:  Leighton Concert Hall, DPAC University of Notre Dame  
Tickets: 574-631-2800  
FOOTBALL FRIDAY'S @ FEVER  
4TH 1\PPETITE FOR DESTRUCTION  
11TH FREAKBOX  
18TH EAR GASM  AFischoff Arts~in~Education Residency Event 
25TH DANGEROUS JIM POST  
Underwrttten by:  
DOORS OPEN @ 9 $1 AND $2 DRINK SPECIALS  ~\.~~~ 1\!iJKl#HI!JMit\  Uli6~H ~lC.:.<l<~t.l~~~ ~~ ~~ 1.~1~  Henkel's lecture Series, Arts &Letters· Univer~ty of Notre Dame Allen Whitehill Clowes Charitable Foundation. Inc. • 20051ndiano Achievement Award Gene~s Program &the City of Elkhart • The Junior league of South Bend, inc. • NIPSCO  1$]UNIVERSI'I'Y.Of WNOTREDAME  

w,m~~~~ 
~7.!li~Cw.!;.~f

222 Sm.ITH MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND 
South Bend Community School Corporation Trrie IProgram Cullege ofAru and Letters 
~~<;~~HMi ~~::>t~~"$ 
!dl~~.~loi;clx~

v~....·~'\'1". CLUB FEVER. BIZ 
Fischoff Nati Chamber Music Assoc.. 303 Brownson Hall, Notre Dome, iN 4~ 1ph 574.631.0984/ \WIW.fischoff.org tkparntKr•! of Jlusic 
V<JIJlVl2221TAUANSTEA~~HOUSE.COM 

-
r-------------------------------------------------------------------­Thursday, November 3, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
PGA 
Players have mixed reactions to playoff plan 
Commissioner Finchem introduces NASCAR-like points race called FedEx Cup 
A~sndatcd Press in thn samn tounuunents once 
thn major championships nnd 
ATI.ANTA -Ti!{er Woods in August. Four ol' the top five walkPd WParily arross thn play!1rs in tho world -Woods, parkin!{ lot in twili!{ht Vijay Sin!{h, Phil Mickelson, WPdrwsday. nwallin!{ llw Y!Htr Hntinf Goosen and Ernie 1\ls ­lw playPd !d!{ht !'Onsneutivn played togetlwr in four tour­WPPks as lw wrappPd up his naments before tlw Masters. rPrord-sPttin!{ 2000 snason. Goosen skipped a World Golf 
"I was wipml out at t.lw nnd Championship last month. of t.hn ynar." hn said. while Micknlson is not at the 
Woods might want to got Tour Championship. usml to playing long stretches Under tlw nnw model, the undPr a new I'<;A Tour sclwd­Bridgestonn Invitational at 
uln in  2007  that  Firestone would  
rommissionnr Tim l;inclwm said  "~(you want to win  prn!~ndn tlw PGA Championship.  
would include tlw  the cup series.  One  week later  
"most impaetJul  you're going to  would  be  tho  
sPriPs of nvnnts in t.hn history or our  have to play those  start or tho Championship  
sport."  events."  Series, in  whieh  
It  includes  a  points  aeerund  
snason-long points ran• called tlw FPd Jo:x Cup. 1!.  Tiger Woods golfer  sinee .January would bn prorat­ed !{oing into  
f'paturPs  thrPn  throe  straight  

hlorkblustnr !WPnts IPading to tournaments. with the top :w tlu~ Tour Championship, whir.h eligible for the Tour would PrHI in S!•ptPmlwr. with <:hampi!lnship. a payoff that l;inehnm said "II' you want to win thn cup liknly will lw tlw largPst. of any snrins. you're !{oing to have to playoff systnm in sports. p Ia y t ho s n n v !1 n t s , " W o o d s 
About tlw only thing missing said. "It's going to be a lot­wPrn tlw dnt.ails. six out of snven nvents at the 
Finrlwm dnlivnn~d a skPintal end of the year, tlwn probably sknt.rh ol' t.hn nnw snason. eon­a Hyder Cup or Presidents ('Pding that lw has not ligurnd Cup. That's a lot of golf. but out wlwrn all t.hn pi!~cns f'it af'tnr that. you're pretty mueh and how tlw points nu~n will donn, which is grnat." work. Thn idea was to make It is similar to thn Chase for !{oil' look lik!1 othnr sports at the championship that IhP !'!HI of tlw year. NASCAH bngan last ynar, in 
"Wn'rp rnally thn only sport which the top I 0 drivers of thn t.hat. donsn't havn a strongnr S!mson com pntc in tho !'ina I 10 l'inish than our re!{ular sna­races for the title. son." lw said. "We go so far into thn foot­
Top play!1rs rarnly compntn ball season. and so far into the fall, that we haven't been abln to get the kind of strength we sen in other sports," Finehem said. "We're the only major sport that donsn't have a play­ofT systnm." 

The first stop is taking the model to TV negotiations. expected to bngin later this month. 
"We have given a general flavor or the direction we're going with our television part­ners," Finehem said. "They see the possibilitins in tnrms ol' strnngthnnin!{ our overall product." 

Some playnrs still exprnss!~d concerns. 
Chris DiMarco noted that Singh, who has missed the last two cuts. might not bn nligibln for thn Tour Championship. Woods also missed the eut the last time he played. two wnnks ago at Disney. 
Evon if a player were to win all four majors, it's conceiv­able he would not win tho FedEx Cup or nven make it to the Tour Championship. 
"What's the worse-ease sce­nario? That our Super Bowl doesn't have all tlw marquen players," David Toms said. 
Finchem did not say how many players would be nligi­ble to win the FedEx Cup, although he said the thren events in the Championship Series would have 144 play­ers. 
The Associated Press f'irst reported the nnw model in .July, and tour ofl'ieials have been tweaking the concept since. They still are unsurn how the points system will work. and Finehem said thorn was much work lnf't. 
"I've mot with Tim f'ive timns, and I've heard five dil'­fernnt things," Woods said. 
Multiple sources involved in the discussion, all speaking on condition of anonymity because thn tournaments hav~~ not been announced, havn 
said thn t.hrnn !Wnnts lnadin!{ 
to the Tour Championship 
would bn tlw Barelays Classic 
in Nnw York. tlw Dnut.sclw 
Bank Championship out.sidP 
Boston and the Wnstnm Open. 
Thn Wnstt~rn Open is still deal­
in!{ with sponsorship issuns 
and a dncision on wlwrn to 
play. 
Golf World nHt!{azinn rnport­
nd last wnnk that. thn Wnst.nrn 
Opnn mi!{ht lw rotatnd amon!{ 
such mark!~ts as Minrwsot.a, 
Indianapolis. Chica!{o and St.. 
Louis. F i nl'lw m m n n I. i o rw d 
that. Bnllnrivn outsidn St. Louis 
was supposnd to host thP 
American lixprnss 
Championship. an nvent can­
n•lnd lweausn of t.lw Snpt. I I 
terrorist attacks. 
Tlw ]wart of tiH• s!mson will 
bn shortnr. 
But for those tournanwnts coneern n d tlu~ y m i !{ h t. !{ n t k n o c knd o IT t hn s e hed u In . 
Finchem said t.hnre would lw 
six or S!wnn ot.hPr events af'tnr 
the Tour Championship in 
whieh players could try to 
narn thnir tour cards for nnxt 
ynar. 
That snetion of thn snason would bn eallml t.lw "{)twst for thn Card." althou!{h Woods ·said lw would not. play any of thosn t.ournanwnts. and otlwr top players also would bn !.ak­
in!{ timn otT. 
Still. Finelwm hnli!~ves a sna­
son-lon!{ points nu~n. coupled 
with a Tour Championship in 
Septnmb!~r. would mean morP 
top players in tlw samn t.our­
nanwnt.. 


Write Sports. Call Mike at 1-4543. 


Thursday, November 3, 2005 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS 

Bender 
continued from page 24 
new coach is confident in his ability to adjust to his new position, despite not having any experience at the college level. 
"Other than the shot clock: the only thing I have to change is teaching the girls the new game plan," Bender said. 
Bender's new plan is an overhaul on both offense and defense. The Belles will utilize a new motion-style offense to score quickly with multiple defensive looks in order to contain their opponents. 
Saint Mary's also has been working on its team speed to convert defensive stops into quick turnovers. Bender has worked this fast-paced transi­tion offense into practices, focusing on fast break points at most practiees. 
One of the biggest advan­tages Bender has in imple­menting his.new schemes is the amount of freshman play­ing for the Belles -six in total. Bender was left with only three returning starters from last season's team ­senior Bridget Boyce, junior Bridget Lipke and Sophomore Allison Kessler. 
But with the freshman play­ers, including starting center Nicole Beier, Bender can shape their college games with his strategy. 
"The main thing that has to be done is to get them used to up-tempo college basketball," Bender said. 
Even though tonight's game is only a scrimmage, it still is important for the team, 
Vols 
continued from page 24 
our own mistakes with the takeaway, which is our No. 1 job -to take the ball away. You don't like to do it always like that, all the way backed up and put the offense in bad field position, but that beats the alternative of lining up for an extra point." 
Irish head coach Charlie Weis also addressed this issue, emphasizing how he used last week's bye to focus on the details Minter alluded to. 
"There's a lot of things that we need to clean up -like penalties, like ball posses­sion." Weis said. "Some of the things that were glaring errors in the BYU game. When you have a normal 20-hour work week, it's tough to spend extra time on a couple of facets, because you have installation to deal with as well." 
Notre Dame was penalized 11 times for 77 yards in its 49­23 win over BYU Oct. 22. 
Irish strong safety Tom Zbikowski said cleaning up mistakes has been a focus of practice this week. 
"I know for the linemen, if they jump offsides, they got to start running," Zbikowski said. "The coaches are looking on and making sure they don't jump offsides. Luckily I don't have that problem." 
During Zbikowski's 83-yard interception return for a touchdown against the Cougars, he extended the ball outward on his way to the end zone. But Weis and he both agree that will not happen against Tennessee. 
I Bridget Lipke, right, plays defense in a game against Alma last season. She is one of three returning starters this season. 
according to Bender. 
"The team needs to improve over Saturday's intra-squad game. We want IBethel] to expose our weaknesses," he said. 
Boyce, last season's second leading scorer and the high­est-scoring player returning this season, understands the importance of the Bethel scrimmage. 
"This is going to be a great learning experience for all the freshman on the team," Boyce said. "I think we are going to 
"Yeah I've been carrying the ball with two hands this week for [Weis]," Zbikowski said. 
Notes: 
+ The Irish will not be trav­eling to Tennessee's 104,759­seat Neyland Stadium, famous for being a loud environment. But Weis is still foeused on getting on top early -even without an opposing crowd to quiet. 
"Any time you're playing a tough opponent, the advan­tages of getting on top early are great," he said. "It puts pressure on the whole mental­ity of the whole team. Conversely, if you get behind early, now you're putting surprise a lot of people out there with our new offense." 
Despite a disappointing sea­son last year, the Belles cannot wait to start playing at 7 p.in. tonight to prove how much better they are. Boyce is confi­dent the Belles will win and eontinue to succeed through­out this season. 
"We know that we will be the team to beat this year," Boyce said. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
some extra pressure on your­self. I'm always big on trying to get on top early." 
+ In the wake of Air Force coach Fisher DeBerry's com­ments regarding the lack of African Americans in his pro­gram, Weis was asked for his take on the issue of race in college football. 
"I learned a long time ago, long before I got into the busi­ness world, to be color blind," Weis said. "I think that anyone who's a success in life better practice that philosophy." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

MLB 



Reds owner sells team to local group 
Carl Lindner's share of team believed to be priced at $270 million 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Carl Lindner agreed Wednesday to sell his eontrolling interest in the Cincinnati Reds to a group of area businessmen, keeping base­ball's first professional franchise in local hands. 
The group is headed by Robert Castellini, ehairman of a Cincinnati-based produce com­pany, and relatives of a family that owned the team when it became the Big Red Machine in the 1970s. The sale must be approved by Major League Baseball. 
Most sales take between three months and a year to get approval from baseball owners, the timeframe usually depending upon the number of parties involved. 
Several groups showed an interest after three limited part­ners put their shares -repre­senting 51.5 percent of the team -up for sale in March. lindner said then that he wanted to keep control. 
He changed his mind and agreed to sell his controlling shares as well. Castellini's group will buy between 70 percent and 
80. percent of the team, valued at $270 million, said one of the par­ties involved in the sale. 
Castellini's group was the last to show an interest, getting involved only a month ago, said the source, speaking on condi­tion of anonymity because base­ball has barrnd eomment on the deal until it is approved. 
Two other groups made similar bids, but Lindner felt most com­fortable with Castellini's group. 
"Carl knew them well," said another party involved in the deal, also speaking on condition of anonymity because of base­ball's order. "That's got a lot to do with it. They're Cineinnati." 
Castellini's business was 





TO G:lT 
]!U 

SPORTS PAGE BAR & GRILL 
50827 PRINCESS WAY (JUST UP RT, 23 !N GRANGER) "' FRlDAY, NOV. 4TH * 8 PM * 
founded in 1896 -27 years after the Reds started playing ­and grew into one of the largest distributors of fresh fruits and vegetables in the country. 
When the Reds played at Hiverfront Stadium starting in 1970, clubhouse attendants would get cabbage leaves from Castellini's nearby produce warehouse and soak them in ammonia so players could wear them under their .caps and keep eool on scorching days. Castellini sold the warehousP and land f(Jr more than $30 million in the 1990s to make way for a football stadium for the Bengals. 
The 86-yPar-old Lindner knows Castellini from their busi­ness, civic and philanthropic dealings. Joe Bride, a corporate spokesman for Castellini, declined comment because of baseball's order. 
"It's always been important to Mr. Lindner and the rest of the current owners to have a very strong local face on the new ownership," said Stephen Greenberg of Allen & Co., which was hired by the team's limited partners to arrange the sale. 
The sale adds to the Heds' legacy of local ownership. 
Broadcasting pioneer Powel Crosley Jr. bought the Reds in 1934 and put his name on the team's field. Local businessmen William and James Williams were part of the dub's owner­ship group in the 1970s, when it won two World Series and became known as the Big Red Machine. 
Two of the Williams' descen­dants -Thomas and William Jr. -will be part of the new owner­ship group with Castellini, who would become the team's chief operating officer. All three arc part of the St. Louis Cardinals' ownership group led by Bill DeWitt Jr. and would have to sell their interests in that club. 
The Williams family was part of the ownership group that sold control to local car dealer Marge Schott in 1984, setting up one of the club's most turbulent peri­ods. 
Thursday, November 3, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NO VOLLEYBALL 
Irish take care of Billikens 
By TOM DORWART 
Spons Writer 
Tlw maintonanen cTow at tho .loyco C1mtnr didn't havo much clnaning to do Tunsday night as tlw No. 5 Irish swnpt anothor opporwnt on thoir homo court -dof'oating St. I .ouis :·Hl-1 ;{, :m­2], :w-:n 
It was tlw sixth tinw in nine honw matdws that tho Irish won in tlm~o straight games. 
( :oar.h Ikbhio Brown knpt lwr loam n~ady aftnr two hugo Big East wins owr tlw wookond. 
Tlwy wore not about to takn t.lw Billiknns lightly, but Brown wasn't suro how lwr loam would start t.lw non-eonf'nrPnen matrh af'tnr tho high-omotion wnnknnd. 
From tho looks of' tho 30-13 scorn. tlw Irish r.anw ready. 
"It was a really good f'irsl ganw," Brown said. "We nxocut­Pd wnll. Wn snrvml rnally tough. 
"I think St. Louis wasn't rnally sure what to nxpnet, and then I think tlwy play1HI a liltln bit bnt­tm· in ganws two and thren." 
Notre Dame had live players with night or morn kills. Senior outside hitter/middle blocker I .aurnn Knlbloy lod the way with 14, and f'ollow sonior Lauren Browsll~r addod nine. Sophomore outside hitter Adrianna Stasiuk pounded 1;{. In total. tlw Irish had 54. 
Notrn Dame hit f'or a .417 por­r.mltago in tho match. 
Senior Mng llnnican once again lnd tho way def'ensively with 14 digs. The Irish also had I 0 bloc:ks on the day. 
Notre Dame won its 14th straight match. Thny're in the top live -liknly lwadnd f(>r thn No. I send in both thn Big East and NCAA tournanwnt. 




GREAT LIFESTYLE 
best from their opponents. 
"West Virginia will be chal­lenging f'or us," Brown said. "Any time you play in the Big East, we always have a big tar­get on our backs, so the teams play up for us for sure. 
"We're on the road, so that's a little more of a challenge too. Pittsburgh is one of' the top teams in the eonference. They've got very good outside hitters. We'll have to get a good practice in and a good lilm ses­sion in and be on the road and play well again." 
One more practice and the Irish will be ready to go again. They have something special going this season. 
Later this week, they hope to keep rolling. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

Turtle Creek Aartments 

Adjacent to Campus! 
Remodeled Apartments Available 

www.campuscribs.net 
1.866.395.4201 
1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 

CLOSEST TO CAMPUS 

NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Thon1psons continue don1inance in ITA's 
Tennis twins will play in their second grand sla1n of season 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
Catrina and Christian Thompson's assault on the Notre Damn women's tnnnis rneord book will continun today at the second grand slam of' the season, the ITA National Indoor Championships. 
The Thompsons are attnmpt­ing to become the f'irst team from any school to win both the ITA All-American Championships and the National Indoor doubles titles in the samn year. 
TlH~ twin sisters, winners of the doubles title at the first grand slam last month, the All­American Championships, are the No. 1 seed in this weekend's tournament. It is the first time Notre Dame has ever earned the top send in a grand slam tour­nament. 
Assistant coach Michelle Dasso, who coached the sisters at the All-American tourna­ment, said she has seen them become morn focused since they won the first grand slam in Irish history. 
"Winning that tournament helped their mental confidenen," Dasso said. "They know they can win, but they also know everyone is gunning for them. They have been taking each match one at a time, and I hope that's how they approach this weekend. 
"This is the toughest draw in the country and they can't get ahead of themselves." 
While the All-American Championships were played in the California heat, this week­end's action will take place inside the Columbus Racquet Club at Ohio State University. 
Dasso felt the indoor courts would be an advantage for the Thompsons. 
"A big positive for us is that the good West coast teams have to come play inside," Dasso said. "It's usually hard l'or us to make the adjustment to the outdoors when we play them out there, but we won't havn to worry about that. They'll be adjusting and playing on our surface." 
Catrina Thompson was an at­largo qualil'ier to tlw singles draw for thn Indoor Championships and will take to Uw court to face l'inh-snnd<~d Hobin Steplwnson of Alabama today. 
Catrina Thompson is r.oming niT a semifinal appnara1u~o at the Midvyest Championships and has shown lwr ability to r.om­pntn with some of the top play­nrs in the nation. 
"It's a grnat opportunity f'or hnr," llasso said. "Shn's dnlinitn­ly a top playnr, and she'll havn thn ehancn to take on sonw other top players this wenknnd. Shn has an advantage on the fast courts and could rnally put up some good singlns wins." 
Dasso also fnlt that thn singles play might help Calrina Thompson's doublns game, as it would offer more eompetition and a chanen to improvn her intensity. 
While the Thompsons will bn compnting in Columbus, Ohio, the rest of thn No. 24 Irish will traVI~I to Urbana, Ill., to play in thn Midwest Blast, hosted by the Univnrsity of Illinois. 
Play will bngin Friday in a simulatnd dual format. The Irish will play Illinois, Louisville and Wiseonsin in dual matehes, but tnam scores will not be knpt. 
Hesults will count for individ­ual ranking purposns. 
"There arn good teams tlwrn, and it will be a good tnst for us as the fall snason ends," Dasso said. "It will help the freshmen gnt usnd to the dual match for­mat, and everyone will get to play a lot of' matehns. It's good for everyone to get mateh expe­rienen in the fall." 
Without the Thompson twins, the rest of the Irish will have the opportunity to play up a fnw spots in the lineup. 
Dasso was excited that tlw tnam would be abiP to play bet­ter eompetition at the higher positions. Shn also said that she would most likely shul'f'le the lineup between matdws to gnt dill'erent players playing differ­ent positions in thn lineup. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer I @nd.cdu 

Observer File Photo Catrina Thompson anticipates a shot in a March 22 match against Purdue. Thompson will play this weekend at Ohio State. 
But Brown says to hold on. 
"We'vn talknd about whern we aro right now, and we've talked about not getting ahead or our­snlvns," she said. "IWe'rel tak­ing it one match at a time and lstilll nnjoying it along the way beeause it's not like it's not hap­pening beeause it's really fun. 
"We've had some great wins. We're working really hard, so we're trying not to get ahead of ourselves. We're putting our­selves in a really good position to finish strong and finish well, and that's what we want to do." 
There's plenty of work to do. 
This weekend the Irish will hit the road f(Jr the first time after playing at home since Oct. 21. Considering they are the defending Big East regular sea­son and tournament champions, and given their No. 5 rank in the nation, the Irish expect the 

page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, November 3, 2005 
Hoops 
continued from page 24 

only each other," Quinn said before Tuesday's practice. "It'll be exciting to suit up against someone else." 
The last time the two teams met, Lewis University was Lewis College. In the first of two exhibition games, Notre Dame will take the court at 
7:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center with the same name but with a drastically different face from last season. 
Point guard Chris Thomas has graduated, and the team has 
Irish only had the ninth-best field goal percentage defense in its conference -teams shot 
42.4 percent against them. 
Last season, Notre Dame had lost the services of lockdown man-to-man defender Torrian Jones to graduation, and Brey experimented with zone defense. But Thomas and Quinn both started, and coupled with Falls playing one corner, Notre Dame's 2-3 zone was small and unimposing. 
"Against [Boston College], I don't know how we stole that night because we were really small," Brey said of a 68-65 win on Feb. 8 in which Notre 
Dame played zone. "We're big­

welcomed four "Thinking even ger up front promising fresh­[nowl. so I think
further, the only 
men to a roster that can help us. 
guy I know I'd start 
filled with players And then we'll do who either expect Thursday would be some three-quar­or are fighting for ter-court stuff,
Chris Quinn. After
serious playing some delay pres­
that, let them all 
time. sure, things like 
"There's proba­fight for it.'' that. I think it's bly more moving just a matter of parts at this time different mixtures
Mike Brey
of year than any and different guys
Irish coach 
playing together." 

of my other years as far as combi­nations and looking at a lot of different things and not having a predetermined rotation," Irish coach Mike Brey said Tuesday. "Thinking even fur­ther, the only guy I know I'd start Thursday would be Chris Quinn. After that, let them all fight for it." 
Brey was half-joking, because he acknowledges he will rely sometimes on guard Colin Falls' shooting. He understands cen­ter Torin Francis is his tallest body in the post. But Brey also knows guard Russell Carter can be explosive from the perimeter or on the drive. He said for­ward Rick Cornett has worked hard in the offseason to increase the minutes he saw last season. 
The coach repeatedly has said Notre Dame has 10 to 11 players who all could, and most likely will, factor into the rota­tion from November to March. And the quickest way for play­ers to earn minutes -and for the Irish to improve -is to buckle down defensively, Brey said. 
"I think my biggest concern is what's our defensive identity," Brey said. "Is it more man than zone? Is it both? Personnel will dictate some of that. And it could be something that's changing throughout the year given personnel and given dif­ferent styles of play-especial­ly in our conference. 
"I think offensively we know what to do with it down there. It's just digging in and having a physical presence on the defen­sive end and then consistently rebounding the ball." 
Notre Dame's defense gave up an average of 64.1 points per game last season {fifth among Big East teams}, but the 
Brey said Carter, a junior, has been play­ing better defense in practice and will be an asset for match­ups against athletic guards, of which the Big East has plenty. Forward Hob Kurz is one of the more physical defenders in the post, Brey said, and Omari Israel has the length needed to shut down scorers. 
And then there are the fresh­men. The bench keeps going. 
"I think Luke [Zeller] and Kyle [McAlarney] especially can step in and help us," Quinn said. "Zach Hillesland has been a guy who, throughout the summer and the preseason, has surprised some people. And I think he'll able to step in for us and play a role for us." 
Notre Dame is 4-0 all-time in its series with Lewis University. The Irish won the games in four consecutive years in games all played at the Joyce Center from 1964-67. 
Lewis, nicknamed the Flyers, plays in the Great Lakes Valley Conference. It is located in Homeoville, Ill. 
Notes 
Forward Rick Cornett is nurs­ing a sprained left ankle he injured last week in practice. Brey said Tuesday Cornett should be ready to go against Lewis tonight barring any set­backs. 
"Everybody should be avail­able," Brey said. "We should have everybody healthy. Rick's got a little bit of that sore ankle, but he's working his way back. I sense he should go today, and we should have everybody available." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Orange 
continued from page 24 

thinking about making the shot. 
"It's definitely exciting. I probably couldn't have asked for a better first goal of my col­lege career." 
Clark had striker Justin McGeeney take the first penalty shot. Cavicchia guessed wrong, and McGeeney sent a goal into the left corner for a 1-0 Irish advantage. 
Syracuse freshman Pete Rowley then beat goaltender Chris Cahill to even the score, but midfielder Ian Etherington immediately answered with a blast into the top right corner of the net, giving the Irish a 2-1 lead. 
Syracuse failed to convert on its next two shots, as sopho­more Brad Peetoom hit the right post and Mike McCallion missed high. Kurt Martin, Notre Dame's third shooter, gave the Irish a commanding 3­1 lead when he beat Cavicchia to the right. 
Lapira had a chance to end the match for the Irish, but Cavicchia made a terrific save diving to his right. Collings then sent one past Cahill to keep Syracuse alive before Besler's final goal ousted the Orange from the tournament. 
The Irish entered the penalty kicks confident thanks to Cahill's strong play on the sea­son. 
''I'm going to tell you why we are confident -because of Chris Cahill," Rellas said. "Having Cahill in goalie, I think we have an advantage over any team [in a shoot out]. He's a good goalkeeper. He's very long." 
Notre Dame started the game off slow. 
Syracuse pressured hard from the opening whistle and controlled much of the action early in the first half, outshoot­find the back of the net. ing the Irish 11-8 in the period. "We had our chances," Rellas 
Clark made a key adjustment said. "We just couldn't put it early in the second half. The away." coach inserted often injured Syracuse had some scoring senior captain Dale Rellas in at opportunities of its own, but centerback and moved junior the Irish defense held strong. 
captain  Greg  The Orange's best  
Dalby up to cen­ chance came with  
ter midfield. The switch allowed Dalby to help  "It's definitely exciting. I probably  just 2:25 remain­ing in the second half. Sophomore  
coordinate the  couldn't have  forward  Isaac  
Irish offensive attack and solved key  asked for a better first goal ofmy  Collings collected the ball and fired a rocket from the  
defensive prob­lem from the  college career. "  far left wing. 6­foot-6 Irish keeper  
first half. "We weren't handling the  Matt Besler Irish freshman  Chris Cahill jumped and tipped the balljust  

high balls," Clark said. "The balls were coming into the box and nobody was getting a hold of them really. Dale is very good in the air." 
Rellas, who had not seen action since suffering a high ankle sprain in a game at Providence on Oct. 19, proved up to the task, cutting off the Orange's aerial attack in the second half. The senior, who practiced Tuesday for the first time since his injury, was thrilled to be back in action. 
"I got off the injured reserve a little bit early, but I was so happy to actually help the team on the field," Rellas said. "I haven't been able to do it in awhile." 
Notre Dame quickly seized control of the game. The Irish outshot Syracuse 22-6 in the second half and two overtime periods. 
"The second half and the overtime it was just total domi­nance," Clark said. "We just absolutely killed them." 
The Irish had numerous scor­ing opportunities that they failed to capitalize on, however. Sophomore forward Joe Lapira consistently got behind the Syracuse defense and logged 11 shots, but could not seem to enough to cause it 
to ricochet off of the crossbar. Cahill recorded five total saves on the night for his seventh shutout of the year. 
The win certainly helps Notre Dame's chances of receiving an at large bid to the NCAA tour­nament. Unfortunately for the Irish, though, a shoot out victo­ry is officially counted as a tie, meaning Notre Dame still only has 10 victories on the year in the eyes of the selection com­mittee. The Irish may need another victory in Sunday's sec­ond round match at St. John's to guarantee a spot in the NCAA tournament. 
"If we could get that, I think we'd almost be a lock for the NCAA's," Clark said. "We've still got a good chance as it stands, but that would make us a lock." 
But St. John's, one of the top programs in college soccer, rarely loses at home. The Irish have never won in New York in Clark's five year tenure. The coach is hoping that streak will come to an end Sunday, though. 
"We're still alive and kicking and there is a bit of soccer left in this team yet," Clark said. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
The Irish missed their flight home Wednesday when the third round ran long. Because of the delay, the players will miss an additional day of class­es Thursday. 
To add to the problem, Notre Dame will play in the Lady Jaguar Invitational in Augusta, Ga., Monday through Wednesday of next week. 
"It's stressful for them, but up until this point, since Labor Day, they've only missed two days of school," King said. "Plus after next week in Augusta, we're done [for the winter!. so they will have a chance to get caught up." 
After the Lady Jaguar, Notre Dame will not compete again until Feb. 19 in thn Central District Classic in Parrish, Fla. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


Links 
continued from page 24 

On Wednesday, the Irish slipped a little to a round score of 300, but not because of the play of sophomore Jane Lee. Lee led Notre Dame with a two­under-par 70. 
"[Lee] had a great closing round," King said. "But as a tea,m, we did mediocre the last day. We were hoping we would­n't lose any ground with a 300, but we did. It was tough losing to Oregon and Missouri by just two shots." 
The Ducks and Tigers fmished with team scores of 892, good enough for an eighth place tie. 
King said the Irish were able to adjust to the desert terrain surrounding the fairways in Las Vegas, but not until after some early trouble. 
"It was definitely different," King said. "They didn't really have a rough, they just had desert. There were sand and rocks and boulders and cactus­es. But it wasn't too much of a problem. The only time we had a problem was on two holes on the first day." 
UCLA, led by Hannah Jun's 70-70-66 (206}, won the tour­nament with a 24-under-par team score of 840. They blew away their nearest competition, Kent State, by 27 strokes. Pepperdine finished third, fol­lowed by Arizona, UNLV, Arkansas and Southern Methodist University. Colorado State, University of California Irvine, Texas Christian University, Brigham Young, Oklahoma and Eastern Washington finished No. 11 through No. 16 respectively. 

Thursday, November 3, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM
CROISSANTWORLD 


JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
TALPI 
rJ 
©2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 

WECIT  
rJ 1tGEDDUR  []  
IIJ  I  I I  
www.jumble.com  

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHEN THE: MARC.H­ING BAND WON THE 5C.HOOL. C.OM­PE:TITION, THE:Y--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) BLANK CARBON MUSTER 

l::AMN 00\IER.NM E.NT· 
-n-u::.'i s~o-~ou Lj) 
BE. Cfo ll.EI) THE. G10\J ... ERN ... 
v"E..LL, 
rT WP6 ALSO 
E"j.. f'E:.N S I \1 E.. I-ID\N N.U.Ll--1 MONC..'i )::::c:l 
A "L.\ C..cNc.E" 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 41 Financial institution
1 Studied 43 Some twist it 

10 Early course 
before eating 15 Shared smoke 44 The world, according to
16 Blather 
Pistol, in "The 17 Judges Merry Wives of Windsor"
18 One year record 47 Slash
19 Proctor's instruction 50 Overnight site 
52 Monopoly deed 20 It's in poetry 

53 -mo

21 Family girl ­54 Blue-blooded
22 Kind of ribs 59 Whelp
24 Weighed down 61 Dark 
26 Solid-colored 62 Thug's piece 
pool ball 64 Big dipper 

29 Cable channel 6Bin New
31 Music category 
Zealand, it 32 Exuded class 
means "normal" 
69 Shift in steps

35 Eager player's cry 71 Retired 
40 Having nobody 72 Indirect owing anybody references 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

I K E B A N A S E C T D I ALOG.PACH I NKO l 0 G Ef N T 1' 'A M I N I 
E W E S T 0 T E M E N 0 L D A R T E V A D E S E X Y 
73 John on a farm 74 Purse taker 
DOWN 1 Dress 
(resemble) 2 Fit (in) 3 Rover's owner 4 Sharp 5 Treaty topic 6 DHL competitor 7 Successful 
comic 8" Love" (1957 #1 hit) 

9 Reduced 10 One way to fly 11 Dan's buddy on 
"Roseanne" 12 Kind of closet 13 Quickly 14 Took out 23 Lecture follow­
up 25 Texas school 26 "The Cosby 
Show" boy 27 Rolling 28 Confucius's 
"Book of 30 German dessert 33 Army member 34 Corporate 
department 36 Unduly 37 Portico 
adornments 38 Material 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Patrick Merrell  
39 Beginning of a  54 One of the  63 Locker room  
plea  three H's  supply  
42 Women's  55 Stupid  65 Christian name  
45 Shallow period  56 Classroom fixture  66 Chaney and  

46 Soldier's reward others 
57 Personnel 48 Food giant 

director 67 Start of Massachusetts'49 Mishmash 58 Alfalfa's beloved motto 
51 One desiring 60 Summer party change locale 70 Expected 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: ny1imes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST
HoRoscoPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Nelly, 31; Reginald "Fieldy" Arvizu, 36; k.d. lang, 44; Stefanic Powers, 63 
Happy Birthday: Take all that you know and have learned and put it to good use this year. Someone will recognize your worth and help you move to the next level. Start focusing on winning for a change. Now is the perfect time to overcome and move forward. Your numbers arc I, I 0, 18, 27, 32, 3H 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Take a chance on love as well as on something that you've wanted to do for a long time. A residential move or just a rcw changes can make your personal life better. Lifestyle change will lead to a much better future. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You have too much going on in your personal 
-
life. Don't Jet your own stubbornness cause irreversible problems. Clive in once in a while so whatever relationship you are in is workable. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your work ethics will impress the people you do business with. A partnership can be developed and give you exactly what you have been missing to make your professional goals complete. *** CANCER (June 21-.luly 22): This is the perfect day for educational pursuits that will help you tind a new way to use what you already have going for you. You can make changes to your appearance that will make you feel more at ease. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do it yourself and you will get things done. lf you rely on someone else, you will find yourself in a bind. Love is in the stars if you arc true to yourself. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll make quite the impression on those who don't know you well, but the people who do may he a little disappointed in the way you present yourself. Don't let anyone dictate what you should do. It has to be your own decision. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may need to revamp a few things in your life. Recycle what you can and rid yourself of what you can't use anymore. A clean slate will help you start out with a fresh new vision. A partnership is at a turning point.*** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Sidestep any controversy with friends or family. Focus on work, money and getting things finished. An unusual idea will grah your attention. Incorporate it into a project. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): You will have to play a hit of a cat-and­mouse game today, especially if you are dealing with authority figures. Don't lay all your cards on the table --hold hack and sec what everyone else is doing first. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): Open up to what others have to say and you will get ahead. Making new friends or business associates will stimulate and inspire you. You will have the stamina to finish something you started a long time ago. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. I!!): You may be focused on love and romance, hut if you aren't careful, someone who has an influence over your future may broadside you. Sudden changes regarding how you make your money can he expected. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will be extremely changeable in your personal life and pursuits. Concentrate on yourself and what you can do to be at your best. Too much emphasis put on others will lead to criticism and hreakups. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are strong and detennined with a mind of your own. You will stand your ground until everyone sees things your way. You are a leader and an adventurer, destined to follow your own path. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fim, eugenialast.comfor confidt.•ntial ccmsultaticm.\' 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, November 3, 2005 
page 24 
MEN'S SOCCER 
Orange juiced 
Notre Dame defeats Syracuse 4-2 on penalty kicks to advance in Big East 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
Freshman Matt Besler's first career goal certainly was a big one. 
After Notre Dame and Syracuse battled through regu­lation and two, 10-minute scoreless overtime periods, the teams settled their first round Big East Tournament matchup on penalty kicks. 
With Notre Dame leading the shootout 3-2, head coach Bobby Clark called upon the young Besler to take Notre Dame's fifth and final shot. The freshman came through, beating Syracuse goalkeeper Robert Cavicchia and pushing the Irish into the second round of the tourna­ment. 
"I really wasn't thinking about winning the game for our team," Besler said. "I was just 
see ORANGE/page 22 


SMC BASKETBALL 
Bender is prepared for season 
First-year head coach looks to improve last year's sub-.500 team 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
Charlie Weis isn't the only new coach in South Bend try­ing to turn a down-and-out program around this year. 
First-year head coach Steve Bender took over the Saint Mary's women's basketball team this season, and he wants to improve the Belles'11-15 record from last year. 
Before coming to Saint Mary's, Bender worked for 25 years at Buchanan High School in Michigan at various basket­ball coaching positions. The 
see BENDER/page 20 

ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Gebauer leads Irish to strong finish in Sin City 
sday. No. 13 University of Nevada Las could go to the same events as Gebauer shot a 72, leaping from By CHRIS KHOREY The 894 shot by the Irish rep­Vegas (UNLV). the Las Vegas we did last year and win them 60th place to 37th and leading
Sports Writer 
resented the thirdcbest score in Showdown was a test that even all, but that wouldn't help our the Irish to a team score of 295. school history, and only the sec­an Irish squad playing at their rankings." King said the team, which was 
It was the second-lowest three­ond time in school history Notre historic best couldn't pass. The Irish had three different in eighth place at the time, was round score the Notre Dame Dame has shot three consecutive Notre Dame head coach Debby leaders in each of the three · excited about their low scores. women's golf team had posted all rounds at 300 or below. King said playing top-25 compe­rounds. In round one on Monday, "Lauren Gebauer said to me, year, but it wasn't enough to Still, with a field highlighted by tition is a way to build the pro­junior Noriko Nakasaki led the 'We're living in the 200s, avoid a tenth place finish out of No. 3 University of California Los gram. team to a round score of 299 coach,'" King said. 16 teams in the Las Vegas Angeles (UCLA), No. 4 "We're getting invited to with an even par 72. Collegiate Showdown Wedne-Pepperdine, No. 5 Arkansas and tougher events," King said. "We On Tuesday, senior Lauren see LINKS/page 22 
FooTBALL 
Coaches n·ot satisfied with current results 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
With its 5-2 start this sea­son, Notre Dame has exceed­ed many expectations from fans and preseason publica­tions. The two Irish losses have come by a total of only six points, falling 34-31 to No. 1 Southern California on Oct. 15 and 44-41 in overtime to Michigan State on Sept. 17. 
But despite this, the Irish aren't totally satisfied with their play this season. 
"Well if you ask me how good are we, I don't think we've played real great this year," Notre Dame defensive coordinator Rick Minter said 11t Wednesday's press confer­ence. 
Minter pointed out the way Notre Dame has given up sev­eral big drives but has come up with a turnover before the opponent can score. 
"We've played hard, and we've played solid/' he said. "We've covered up some of 
see VOLS/page 20 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

D-11 Flyers soar into Joyce 
Notre Dame opens its preseason with home game against Lewis 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 

Notre Dame plays Division II Lewis University tonight for the first time since 1967. To Irish point guard Chris Quinn, it feels like it's been just as long since the Irish played anybody. 
"We've been here since the middle of June playing against 
see HOOPS/page 22 


~D VOLlEYBAll ~D WOME~'S TE~~~S MlB ~SA ~Hl NBA 
LLI 

t.:) No. 5 Notre Dame Christian and Catrina Carl Lindner agreed Pistons 108 Senators 10 Lakers 99 z defeated St. Louis Thompson will play in to sell his controlling Sixers 88 Sabres 4 Nuggets 97 {OT)::5 Wednesday 30-13, 30-23, the ITA National Indoor portion of the Allen Iverson scored Daniel Alfredsson and Kobe Bryant drained 
30-23 at the Joyce Championships today Cincinnati Reds to a 31 points, but Detroit Martin Havlat each a 22-foot game winner
c:s 

Center. at Ohio State. local business group. easily beat Philadelphia. scored four goals in the in overtime to give Los 
~ 

Ottawa victory. Angelos the win. 
!:C page 20 page 20 page 20 page 14 page 18 page 14 









