
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 26 TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27,2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Freshmen adjust to honor code, challenges 
First year students often overlook Honor Code 
By JOE PIARULLI 
New., Writer 
l>nspitn its of'tnn-nm phasiZ<HI importancn and thP snvnrn r.onsn­qunnrns that can <H'I'Onlpany its vio­lation, Uw Aradnmir Codn of llonor is sonwthing many l'rnshmnn ovnr­look during tlwir transition to Notrn llamn -a probiPm thn Univnrsity is working to addrPss. officials said. 
Virn prnsidPnt and assor.iatn provost I>Pnnis .Jacobs, co-chair of thP UnivPrsity Codn of llonor Connnit.t.nn. said l'n~shnwn nspncial­ly must takn tlu~ llonor Codn snri­ously. 
'"l'.lw vast majority ol' students l'ound rnsponsibiP l'or llonor Code violations at Notr·n Damn arn f'irst­ynar studnnts or sophomores," he said. 
sec CODE/page 4 


First Year of Studies progran1 offers guidance 
By PETER NINNEMAN 
News Writer 
Notrn Damn's First Ynar ol' Studios (FYSl program is nwant to bn a guiding !'oren l'or frnshnwn, tho University's attnmpt to st.abi­lizn the potnntially unstahln. While some l'rnshnwn an1 taking l'ull advantage ol' tho rnsourc11s. others arP unawarP ol' tlwir Pxis­tencn or sknptical ol' tlwir bnnn­l'its. 
The FYS Learning Hnsource Center (LHC) provides small-group workshops and individual appoint­ments to hnlp studnnts lnarn bet­ter strategies l'or studying and adjusting to the academic lil'n at Notre Damn. llnlp topics includn time managnnwnt, tnst prepara­tion, eiTir.iont reading and getting 
see FYS/page (J 

Married students find University experience fulfilling 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
N(·ws Writer 
Tlwy senm like the typieal Notre Damn r.oupln. She's a sophomorn; lw's a graduate studnnt. Tlwy go to Studnnt Union Board movins on Friday nights. study at the library tognthnr and c!Hwr with tho host ol' thnm at Notrn Damn football gamns. 
Thn only diiTPn•nrn'! Tlwy do it all with wndding rings on tlwir lingnrs. 
/\ndrPa, 21, and Andrnw llrnyl'uss. 2fl. an1 rwwlyweds. Thn roupln was married in August and livn as husband and wii'P in a house on Napol1~on Stroot. 
"It's so nirn to havn sonHHJJW to sharP nvnrything with," Andrna llrnyl'uss said. "It's nirn to wakn up with some­body and sloop with sonwbody 
and have breakfast together. I 
just like it. It's made  me  feel  
very happy."  
Marriod  couples like  the  

Dreyfusses are uncommon among Notre Dame under­graduates, but wedding nngagnments between seniors tnnd to peak as graduation nears. 
Marriagos are far morn com­mon among graduate students, said Elly Bronner, an assistant rnetor at University Village and Cripo ltoad Apartm1mts. 
Brenner said thoro arn only one o1· two undergraduate couples living in thoso resi­dnncns. Tho rest of the dose to I 00 eouplns are graduate stu­dnnts. 
Tho eom plnxes eater to spo­cil'ie cases. Univnrsity Village is designnd for students mar­rind with children, while Cripe 
see MARRIED/page 6 

Notre Dame junior spins to success on popular game show 

Lisa Fetta won $11,060 on Wheel of Fortune as part of the game show's College Road Trip series. 
By JOE PIARULLI 
News Writer 

It may have bonn the luek of the Irish that landed Badin Hall junior Lisa Fetta a spot on Wheel of Fortune, but her ensuing $11,0(>0 in winnings had morn to do with skill. 
The wheel itself wasn't exaetly a lucky eharm l'or tho political seinnce and engi­neering major. Shn spun fivn lose-a-turns or bankrupts but took seeond place against stu­dnnts from Indiana and Kansas as part of Wheel of Fortune's College Hoad Trip. 
Tho show was filmed in Los Angeles on Sept. 15 and will air Oet. 25. The day of filming started at 6 a.m. for Fetta. She and about 25 other col­lege students went through make-up and hair snssions and hours of practiee. 
They also l'ilmnd several commercials, ineluding pro­motions l'or local channels and a eornmereial f'or Ford. 
Fntta's father. brother and two younger sisters met lwr in Los Angolns to ehner hnr on. 
"My family all thought I would win a lot of rnonny," Fetta said. "My brothnr missed school and flew from Dayton !Ohio 1. They knew I was pretty conl'idnnt." Unlike sornn otlwr !:ontnst­
ants,  Fntta  was  not  at  all  
nnrvous  bnf'ol'l~  going  on  
stagn.  

"I was just antsy. Thny try to to u e h yo u up n v 11 ry t w o sneonds. I just wantnd to play thn ganw," sh n said. "So nw girls wnrn shaking, onP girl thrnw up. I was morn nervous during thn audition." 
FPtta said shn was plnasant­ly surprisnd this past. sunlml'r whnn she recniv1HI an n-mail granting lwr a private audi­tion in Chicago. Slw was in Philadelphia at thn time l'or a 
see FORTUNE/page 9 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 27, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Greatest hits 

When Aerosmith lead singer Steven Tyler first saw the Stanley Cup in person, he couldn't help but be amazed at its pedigree, quipping, "This is the only thing that has seen more parties than us." 
The National Kyle Cassily Hockey League's glorified drinking cup, first awarded Sports Writer by Canada's gover­nor-general Lord Stanley in 1892 to the country's top hockey team, has been handed out all but two years in its lifetime. 
The first absence came in 1919 when the Spanish flu epidemic made it impos­sible for the top two NHL teams to field an entire team; the flu even killed the contending Montreal Canadiens' captain "Bad" Joe Hall. The second, regrettably, came about from less dire conditions in 2004-05 with an owner-induced lockout. 
Many supposed pundits labeled the eventual season-long lockout the demise of what had been a league already in decline. They threw the NHL and its iconic trophy onto the dirty jersey pile in the corner of the national sports scene locker room. 
Hockey was soon forgotten in the national consciousness; the Cup left dry of ice shavings and champagne . 
. The memory of national unity forged by the 1980 'Miracle on Ice' upset over the invincible Red Army was lost in a sense of apathy for the sport. 
While the analysts were busy bashing the greediness of the players and the stubbornness of the owners, the images of Bobby Orr's Cup-winning goal, stretched in a Superman pose, teeth beaming, were filed away in a cabinet few bothered to check. 
Wayne Gretzky's 92 goals in 1981-82, a single season record comparable only with Chamberlain's 50.4 average points per game for the 1962 season, DiMaggio's 56-game hit streak and Gretzky's own 215 point season in 1985­86, is incredible when a 50 goal scorer is labeled one of the best in the league, but is rarely mentioned in 'Best Of. .." compi­lations anymore. 
And who could forgot Super Mario Lemieux's performance in the 1995-96 season that led to his capture of the Hart Trophy, the hardware awarded to the season MVP, less than a year after he overcame the crippling effects of Hodgkin's Disease? Well, evidently the majority of the sports world could, no problem. 
Now with the NHL's return, many can­not help but wonder where the League is headed and who will tune in. Baseball faced the same problem over a decade ago but found saviors in Cal Ripken's Iron Man record and the titanic McGwire-Sosa home run race. 
The NHL is primed to embark on a rise back to international acclaim. It looks to rookie ~idney Cro_¢y, the most highly touted prospect since Gretzky, and a laundry list of rules changes meant to open the game back up to the mix of offense, speed and no-holds barred fight­ing characteristic .of the Old-Time Hockey favored by the Hanson Brothers. 
But until the game can re-ice itself back into the national sports lexicon, let the puck drop, the gloves fly and the Cup ride high over a horde of playoff beards and Barry Melrose mullets. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times.· We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD COMPETE ON A GAME SHOW, WHICH ONE WOULD IT BE? 









Matt Mattare Jeff Hausfield Joe Garlock Matt Plaska Andrea Lee Marcus Jackson 
sophomore sophomore junior junior senior senior O'Neill O'Neill off-campus Keough off-campus Fisher 
"Most Extreme "American "Legends ofthe "The Price is "Blind Date ... "What is Elimination Gladiators, so I Hidden Temple, Right, because unless I get set Jeopardy? No. Challenge, can get in because Kirk Bob Barker up with a guy really?" 
no pain, shape for Fogg is my rocks my 
no gain ... O'Neill hero. , world." except at broomball." Farley!" 
Reindeer injures old, Finnish couple 
HELSINKI, Finland -A reind!:Jer injured an elder­ly couple in the wilds of Finnish Lapland, in a rare attack that caused injuries needing hospital tre.,.at­ment, officials said Monday. 
A male reindeer sudden­ly appeared from a forest and attacked a man who was hiking Sunday with his partner near Kittila, about 620 miles north of Helsinki. 
The buck butted the man to the ground and kicked him before turning on the woman who was talking to her son on a mobile phone, Kittila fire chief Jorma Ojala said. The son alerted rescue workers who arrived in helicopters and flew the couple to hospital. 
The man and woman were not named, and offi­cials declined to give fur­ther details. 
Thieves rob man for jeans, shoes 
BANGKOK, Thailand ­Two thieves robbed a man at knifepoint to steal his jeans and shoes, but they ended up with a pair of fake Levi's, police said Monday. 
Watcharapbong Khae­wka, a 21-year-old office worker, filed a complaint with police saying that the two men put a knife to his neck and forced him to take off his jeans and sport shoes. 
"The attackers did not touch the money, watch and other valuables on the victim. They just took his jeans and sport shoes and let the victim walk home in his underwear," said police Lt. CoL Phongsak Thongsri, of Bangkok's Thong-song­hong police station. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 

....1 
<C 
(,) 





0 
HIGH 71 71 HIGH HIGH
..... 
LOW 50 50 LOW LOW 
HIGH LOW 
.75 
48 
72 44 

like this. " 
IN BRIEF 
Onesimo Almeida, professor of Portuguese and Brazilian Studies at Brown University, will give a lecture titled "Language -A post Colonial Tool?" today at 12:30 p.m. in C-103 Hesburgh Center. 
There will be a Post-Graduate Service Fair Wednesday from 5 to 8 p.m. in the Stepan Center. More than 50 domestic and international organizations ':"ill be represented. 
Wednesday's Margaritaville event for seniors has been can­celled. 
The men's soccer team will face Bradley University Wednesday at 7 p.m. on Alumni Field. 
The film "La Cueca Sola," directed by Chilean director Marilu Mallet, will be shown Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. It is the second in the series "Women Make Movies: a Latin American Perspective" spon­sored by the Kellogg Institute. 
University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy will sign copies of his new book, "Monk's Notre Dame" from 4 to 6 p.m. Wednesday at the Eck Visitors' Center. 
Marc Gunther, senior Fortw1e magazine writer and author will give a lecture entitled "Faith and Fortune in Business" at 7 
p.m. Wednesday in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH 56 HIGH 
63 

LOW 41 LOW 
44 


Atlanta 85 I 62 Boston 70 I 54 Chicago 76 I 54 Denver 79 I 48 Houston 90 I 75 Los Angeles 78 I 60 Minneapolis 78 I 51 NewYork 75 I 60 Philadelphia 78 I 55 Phoenix 104 I 80 Seattle 68 I 52 St. Louis 81 I 60 Tampa 90 I 76 Washington 74 I 61 
Tuesday, September 27, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Group approves 2005-06 budget 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Suint Mary's Editor 
Building on wnnks of work, stu­dnnt govnrnmnnt ofTicers approvml a final vorsion of tho studnnt govnrnnwnt hudgot for liH~ 2005-0h school yoar at Monday's Board of Govnrnancn (B()(;l nwnting. 
Tho budget allottml $4,000 to B<H;, $h3,1JOO to thn Student Activitios Board ISABl. $13,000 to tlw Student llivnrsity Board, $12,000 to tlw Hnsidnnee llall Association and $5,000 to th1~ Studnnt Acadnrni1: Council. 
This year's budgot. $204,900, is $1 ,XOO loss than last year's total of $20h,700 due to doernasml nnrollnwnt, oxeeutive trnasurer .lillian Waters said. Jo:aeh studont pays a $150 stu­dent government fen, and low 1mrollmnnt numbnrs in rneent years havn impacted tlw budget, Wators said. 
Whilo larg1~r than the Class of 200X, tho Class of 2009 is still smaller than the graduatnd Class of 2005. This past spring, the fall nnrollmont was projectnd to be I.:~79 studonts, Watnrs said, but the actual number of students was I,3hh. 
"The total budget went down but not by too much," Waters said. "Things arn gradually get­ting lwtt1~r with enrollnwnt, but wn arn still rm:ovnring I from the pnwious thrnn years!." 
All the student governmnnt brandws, with thn nxception of SAB, sulli~rnd a decnmse in their allotments for the 2005-06 year. The SAB total increased by 

$:~.900. 

Club allotments were undeter­mined, Waters said, but will be known by the beginning of next week. 
Board members also discussed ways to re-energize campus response toward Hurricane Katrina relief' efforts. Working with the Of'l'ice for Civil and Social Engagement and its direc­tor Carri1~ Call, BOG organized blood drives and f'undraisers in the days following the natural disaster in New Orleans. The dif­ficulty now, members said, is keeping students motivated. 
"I actually talked to Carrie Call and she folt we should givn an 
incentive to the students ... we 
eould raise a lot of money that 
way," tri-campus commissioner 
Shannon McManus said. "She 
didn't just want to ask the stu­
dents to give anymore because 
people are getting sick ofjust giv­
ing." 

13oard members suggested a 
variety of drives including col­
lecting school supplies and creat­
ing T-shirts and donating the 
profits to hurricane victims. 

Senior class president Lauren Condon suggested a shirt that 
would prompt a little "peer pres­
sure" to contribute. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Pair of Irish dancers perfor111 at restaurant 
By EMILY LAVELLE 
NewsWrirer 

Saint Mary's juniors Erinn Kotelnieki and .Jessi Crogan reeled and slip jiggnd thnir way to applausn and eheers Thursday night at Fiddler's IIearth. 
Kotelnieki and Crogan, who are both seasoned Irish stop dancers, were invited to pnrl(mn at the llalf St. Patrick's Day Festival. The girls danend to livn music provided by the Irish band, Teada, whosn members said the dancing was some of' the best they had ever se1m. "The girls were both top class. They wnre light on thnir Hmt and they had great timing," said Tristan Hosenstoek, who plays the bodhran for the band. 
Kotelnicki and Crogan per­formed four different types of Irish stop dances, induding the reel, slip jig, tap reel and two hand reel. Kotelnieki said these dances are some of her Javorites. 
"It's exhilarating to be doing something so dillieult and at the same time reeling like you've nailed it in the midst ofyour per­lorman en," she said. 
Crogan agreed, saying, "It's a lot har,der than it looks. Doing one set of danees is equivalent to running 400 meters. But it gives you a rush, especially when you're in front of a crowd." 
The crowd included Saint Mary's and Noire Damn studenl<i as. well as patrons from tho South Bnnd community. 
Linda and Jon Kozlowski, who rngularly attond nvnnts at Fiddler's ll1~arth, wnrn imprnssnd with t.lw dancing. 
"It gnts tho erowd morn involvnd and is a rc~ally enjoy­able nxperinnr.1~. Linda Kozlowski said. "I would dnfi­nitnly como back to sen lhn girls dan en." 
It is no surprise that tlw girls Hrn abfn to irnprnss tho crowds sinen they havn both bnnn danc­ing from an early agn. 
''I've bn1m dancing sincn I was ll1ur," Kotnlnieki said. "My mom was an Irish danenr, and I'm carrying on the tradition." 
Crogan, who also began al agn ll1ur, Iilli in love with Irish danc­ing in a dill'nrnnt way. 
"I don't know why I started dancing," Crogan said. "I rmnnrnbnr my dad asknd me if I wantnd to do it, and I thought, 'Why not'?' After I startnd I just fnll in lovn with it and havnn 'l stopped." 
Growing up, both girls dancnd in compotitions that took tlwm aeross tho eountry and even to Ireland several times for tho World Championships. Although neither dances eornpntitivnly now, they both enjoy ov1mts like the llalf St. Patrkk's Day ((lstival. 
"It's sueh a fun thing to do, and I was so excitnd that wn worn invitod to darH:o," Crogan said. "I would lovo to eonw back and do it again." 
Contact Emily Lavelle at elavell 01 @nd.edu 



Congregation ofHoly Cross · 
7th Annual CORBY NIGHT "A great band ofmen had passed this way, men who had made and lived by their vows, men who had walked side by side in their following ofthe Lord. .. "  IfGod is calling you • • • Join us. Think you might have a vocation to serve as a priest or brother? Join the Holy Cross community at Notre Dame for an hour ofprayer, pizza, and informal discussion. Tonight, Tuesday, Sept. 27, 9pm at Corby Hall vocation. nd. edu  

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 27, 2005 
penalty, Honor Code violations Code." DiRocco said this area of the sistent education and aware­at Notre Dame range from Freshman Michael Lammie Code is probably violated more ness with regard to the Honor
Code 
continued from page 1 
A lack of academic integrity is a growing national problem to which Notre Dame is not immune, Jacobs said, noting that first-year students are perhaps the ones who need the most attention. 
"National surveys show that seven out of eight college­bound students admit to cheat­ing in high school," Jacobs said. "When students enroll at Notre Dame, they need to rec­ognize that academic dishon­esty is not tolerated here." 
Faculty Honor Code Officer Thomas Flint, who has been teaching philosophy at Notre Dame for 23 years, said about 150 students over the past three years were caught for violating the Honor Code, with less than half of these students found guilty of a major viola­tion. 
"If Notre Dame were typical of American universities, we would have somewhere in the neighborhood of 25,000 cases of cheating every year," Flint said. "Fortunately, our situa­tion is not that bad, but it's still bad enough ... Far, far too many of our students simply don't live up to the ideals for which the University stands." 
Consequences for infringe­ments of the Academic Code of Honor can be unforgiving. 
"Violating the Honor Code comes with serious penalties at this University," said senior Kristin Graham, the University Code of Honor Committee's other co-chair. "Whereas a violation in high school may have resulted in a minor zero credit on an assignment to flunking a course to suspen­sion or dismissal from the University." 

Right now, roughly half of all Honor Code violations at Notre Dame involve plagiarism. 
"Copying off the Internet without proper citation is the most rapidly growing offense," Jacobs said. "We must teach first-year students the rules of citation so that there are no misunderstandings about how to avoid plagiarism." 
"To put it bluntly," Flint said, "some students cheated their way into Notre Dame, and are trying to cheat their way through Notre Dame." 
A number of steps are taken to ensure that incoming fresh­man are made aware of the Honor Code, but Graham said students must make the guide­lines work. 
"The Honor Code itself is not successful or unsuccessful," she said. "Students are suc­cessful or unsuccessful insofar as they fulfill its challenge to responsible, respectful schol­arship." 
Before freshmen arrive on campus, they receive a copy of the Honor Code in the mail and must sign a pledge to abide by it. Although the perti­nent information is also pre­sented to them during orienta­tion weekend, Graham said more could be done. 
"The Code of Honor Committee hopes to improve its outreach to freshmen, pos­sibly beginning with next year's class," Graham said. "We are currently in the process of developing an online tutorial about the Honor said he felt while most stu­dents are aware of and respect the Honor Code, they could stand to know more. 
"I think freshmen under­stand the basics and the rea­sons that the Honor Code is there, but I doubt most of them know the details of it," he said. 
Lammie said Notre Dame's Code did not require a great deal of adjusting on his part. 
"There are no real big differ­ences, other than that it seems like .collaborative learning is encouraged more here than it was in high school, where it was more of an individual thing," Lammie said. 
For some freshmen, under­standing the Honor Code is one thing, while agreeing with it is another. 
"The Honor Code is there to make sure that students aren't taking any shortcuts in their education. It is also there to protect the work of other peo­ple," Lammie said. ''I'm not sure if any part of it is being unfair." 
Fellow freshman Frank DiRocco did not fully agree. He learned about the Honor Code over the summer, when he signed the pledge required of incoming students stating that he would not participate in or tolerate academic dishonesty. Though he intends to follow this pledge, he said the latter part of the agreement was somewhat unfair. 
"The fact that we must report violations of the Honor Code or we're subject to the consequences for breaking the Honor Code is unreasonable," he said. 
frequently than others, because "people do not want to turn in friends." 
Flint said DiRocco may be on to something. 
"Students rarely turn other students in, even when they have ample evidence that cheating is taking place," he said. "Of the 150 or so cases I've read over the past three years, I believe that only one involved a student's self­reporting a violation of the Code." 
Many freshmen, including DiRocco and. Lammie, said they felt the administration and professors must shoulder much of the responsibility in making certain that freshmen know the Honor Code. 
"Professors touched on !the Honor Code] at the beginning of the semester, but they never talked about anything in­depth," Lammie said. 
Bill Jenista, a student repre­sentative on the Honor Committee for the College of Engineering, said he thought Notre Dame could improve in this area. 
"At a basic level I think freshmen and professors fol­low the Honor Code, but I think most people forget some of the finer points and conse­quently slip up on those," he said. "Professors could be somewhat more explicit in the Honor Codes for their specific classes and then enforce them." 
The issue of explanation is compounded by the Honor Code's ever-changing nature, as it is a document subject to revisions based on experience. Such revisions necessitate con-Code. 

"In April 2005, the Academic Council approved a set of amendments to the Honor Code," Jacobs said. "This fall we are trying to educate facul­ty and students about the revised Honor Code, and we are working to deepen stu­dents' commitment to academ­ic intcgrfty." 
Every party involved must take some responsibility in maintaining academic honesty at Notre Dame, Graham said. 
"Individual students and pro­fessors ... need to realize how important their role is in pro­moting and upholding academ­ic standards," she said. "We have got to strive toward a united front on academic integrity because dishonesty unfairly affects other students' efforts, seriously disrespects professors, and tarnishes this University's reputation as an academic institution. We need to be firm in refusing to toler­ate cheating of any kind in any of our academic endeavors." 

Goals of high awareness and harsh penalties are clear, but difficult to meet, she said. 
"The challenge is to create a culture where academic dis­honesty is simply unaccept­able. Students and faculty alike need to reinforce the University's commitment to responsible, honest scholar­ship," Graham said. "If we can achieve that sort of atmos­phere, then we will make sig­nificant progress towards aca­demic integrity." 
Contact Joe Piarulli at 
jpiarull@nd.edu 

Information Meeting 


Perth, Australia 
IFor students in the Colleges of Science and Engineering Onl~ Tuesday~Sept.27~2005 
Room 129 DeBartolo H·all 5:30-7:00 pm 
Application deadline: November 15, 2005 for Fall 2006 only Apply on-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 




ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, September 27,2005 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
~==========~==============================================~==~= 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
School children victims of violence 
BAGIIJ)AJ>. Iraq -Classes had just ended, ehildnm worn milling ouL'iide, and the elem~~n­tary sdwol's liw mal1~ teadwrs had just gotten into a van to head hon111 when the ears pulled up, f'ulf of' nwn wearing Iraqi polien uniforms. 
But they wnrnn 't polieo. Thn nino gunmnn apparnntly Sunni insurgnnL'i pulled the toachers and tlwir driwr from the van. while the school's f'1~w women teadwrs fkd. They dragged the nwn into an empty elassroom, lined thnm against thn wall and mowed them down with automatic weapons. 
Tho dead in Monday's attack worn all Shiite Muslims, tim latest vktims of' the mounting sec­tarian killings in Iraq ahnad of' a rrudal rn!P.rnn­dum on a new constitution that has sharply divided Sunnis and Shiites. 
Pope meets with critical theologian 
VATICAN CITY-Pope Herwdiet XVI met this weekend with orw of' his fiercest critics, I fans Ktll'ng. and the two had a "f'riendly"disnrssion, the Vatimn and tho dissidont Swiss tlwologian said Monday. 
Tlw nwPling occurred Saturday, Vatican spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls said in a statenHmt at thn time of' KuPng's disdplining, he was reportPdly involvml in tlw dneision in his rolo as archbishop of' Munich and Frnising. 
Hatzingnr has publicly critidzed Kunng's writ­ings, and Kueng l'alled his old collnague's f~loc­tion "an Pnormous disappointnwnt fiw all tiHISI~ who hoped f'or a refi1rmist and pastoral popo," although lw gave him 100 days to "learn." 
In an interview with Tlw Assoeiatnd Pross from his home in Tuehingnn on Monday, Kueng said tlw audimu:n lasted snvnral hours and was "very 1~onstnu·tivn and 1w1m a friendly con­versation." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Sheehan arrested with protesters 
WASil I NGTON -Cindy Shenhan, the California mother who became a leador of t.lw anti-war movonwnt af'tnr her son diod in Iraq, was arrest1HI Monday along with hundrnds of otlwrs protesting outsidn the White llousn. 
Slwnhan. carrying a photo of hnr son in his Army uniform. ralliod with other pro­tl~stnrs in a park across the street from tlw White llousn and tlwn marr.lwd to the gate of' tho Pxnnrtivl~ mansion to request a mooting with President Bush. 
Tlw protesters latl)r sat down on the pPdestrian walkway in front of the White llouse -knowing tlwy would be arrested -and began singing and chanting "Stop tlw war now!" 
Police warrwd them thren times that thny wnre lmmking thn law by failing to movn along, then lwgan making arrests. One man dimlwd over thn White llouse fnru~e and was arrnstnd over four and a half hours. 

Brown admits to Katrina mistakes 
WASIIIN<;TON -Former FEMA director Mich<wl Brown said Monday he should have sought fastm· lwlp from tlw Pentagon after llurricarw Katrina hit, and blamed state and local oflidals fi1r failing to order an immediatn nvanration of Nnw Orhmns, congressional aidns of both parties said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

New clinics treat patients quickly 
INDIANAPOLIS-Nnw elinies designnd to treat 1:ornmon ailnwnts in 15 minutes with no appointmnnt nnenssary wnrn set to opnn Monday in Indianapolis. 
A flu shot goes for $:~0. Trnating either ath­lnte's foot or an nar inf'ndion will run $49. 
Snvnn clinics worn to opnn at local CVS ston~s. Ownml and opnrated by Minneapolis­based MinutnCiinie, the dinies have no doe­tors on site but are stall'nd by nursn praeti­tiorwrs trairwd to diagnose and treat com­mon ailnwnts and provide basic serviens, such as vaccinations. 

Judge convicts Pfc. England 
Key roleplayer in Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse scandal will go to sentencing 
Associated Press 
FOHT HOOD, Texas ­
Army Pf'c. Lynndie 
England, whose smiling 
poses in photos of detainee 
abuse at Baghdad's Abu 
Ghraib prison made her 
tho face of the scandal, 
was convicted Monday by a 
military jury on six of' 
seven counts. 
England, 22, was f'ound 
guilty of one count of' con­
spiracy, f'our counts of mal­
treating detainees and one 
count of committing an 
indecent act. She was 
acquitted on a second con­
spiracy eount. 
Thn jury of f'ivo male 
Army of'l'ieers took about 
two hours to reach its ver­
dict. ller ease now moves 
to the sentencing phase, 
which will be heard by the 
same jury beginning 
Tuesday. 
England tried to plead guilty in May to the same counts shn faced this month in ex1~hangn for an undiselosed sentencing cap, but a judge thrnw out the plea deal. She now f'aces a maximum or nine years in prison. 

England, wearing her dark green dress uniform, stood at attention Monday as the verdict was read by the jury foreman. She showed no obvious emo­tion afterward. she was a key figure in the prosecutor. "She was has an overly compliant 
Asked for comment after abuse conspiracy. One laughing and joking.... She personality, making lwr a the verdiet, defense lawyer photo shows England hold­is enjoying, she is partici­heedless participant in tlw Capt. Jonathan Crisp said, ing a naked detainee on a pating, all for her own sick abuse. "The only reaction I can leash. In others, she smiles humor." England's earlinr attnmpt say is, 'I understand."' and points to prisoners in Crisp countered that to plead guilty undnr a 
England's trial is the last humiliating poses. England was only trying to dnal with prosecutors was for a group of nine Army The conspiracy acquittal please her soldier rejeeted by Col. James reservists charged with came on a count pertain­boyfriend, then-Cpl. Pohl, the presiding judge. mistreating prisoners at ;ng to the leash incident; Charles Graner Jr., labeled Pohl declared a mistrial Abu Ghraib in Iraq, a scan­she was found guilty of a the abuse ringleader by during the sentencing dal that badly damaged the maltreatment count stem­pro~ecutors. phasll when tnstimony by United States' image in the ming from the same inci­"She was a follower, she Graner contradietnd Muslim world despite dent. was an individual who was England's guilty plna. quick condemnation of the B1~yond the sordid pho­smitten with Graner," Crisp Graner, a def'ensn wit­abuse by President Bush. tos, prosecutors pointed to said. "She just did whatev­ness at the Sllntnneing, Two other troops worn England's statement to er he wanted her to do." said pictures hn took of' convieted in trials and the Army investigators in England, from Fort England holding a prisorwr remaining six made plea January 2004 that the mis­Ashby, W.Va., has said that on a leash were nwant to deals. S(weral of those sol­treatment was done to Graner, now serving a 10-bn used as a training aid. diers testified at England's amuse the U.S. guards at year sentencn, fathered In her guilty plna, England trial. Abu Ghraib. her young son. had said the pictures worn 
Prosncutors used graphic "The accused knew what The dnl'ense argued that being taken pun~ly for the photos of England to sup­she was doing," said Capt. England suffnn~d from amusement of Abu Ghmib port their eontnntion that Chris Graveline, the lead depression and that she guards. 

Evolution in schools before court 
Dover's policy of requiring ninth­teaching of nvolution in public
Associated Press 

grade students to hear a brief state­school. 
IIAHHISBUHG, Pa. -"Intelligent ment about intelligent design bef'ore The eight families argue that the design" is a religious theory that was biology classes on evolution. district policy violates thn constitu­inserted in a school district's curricu­"This ease is about free inquiry in tional separation of church and lum with no concern for whether it education, not about a religious state. had scientific underpinnings, a agenda," argued Patrick Gillen of the About 75 spectators crowded the lawyer told a federal judgn Monday Thomas More Law Center in Ann courtroom of U.S. District Judge as a landmark trial got under way. Arbor, Mich. "Dover''s modest cur­John E. Jones Ill for the start or thn 
"They did everything you would do riculum change embodies the non-jury trial. But the semw outside 
if you wanted to incorporatll a reli­essence of liberal education." The the courthouse was businnss as gious point of view in science class centnr, which lobbies for what it sees usual except for a lone woman read­and eared nothing about its seientific as tho rnligious freedom of ing the Bible. validity," said Erie Hothschild, an Christians, is defending the school Arguing that intelligent design is a attorney representing night families district. religious theory, not sdnncn, who are challenging the decision of Eighty years af'ter the Scopes Hothschild said he would show that 
the Dover Area School Distrkt. Monkey Trial, the opening of the trial thn language in tlw school distriet's But in his opening statement, the in federal court marked the latest own policy made· clear its religious school district's attorney defended legal chapter in the debate ovnr the intent. 

Complex, or, like a bit more lonely the Dreyfusses, in that way [since live together of'f "For a foreigner my fiance lives in campus. Maine]."
like me, I am happy
Jessica Guo, 27, While her
to live here and
a China native friends are busy and the wife of a raise my child. " plotting their physics graduate future careers, student, lives in Steffan is content
Jessica Guo
University Village with the domestic
wife of graduate 
with her husband life that awaits and their on(~­student her. year-old son "Being engaged Theodore. sets me apart in 
She said the University does a way, as far as out of the an excellent job taking care of crowd of super-achievers married students. or those that have huge ambi­
"I think Notre Dame is a tions for service, self-made really good place that allows careers or travel," Steffan 
5 PM Thursday, ptember2~1;. 231 Hayes-Healy 
or 

5 PM Monday, Qctober3 229 Hayes-Healy 






Everything you need for high-speed Internet access. 

Sign up for the SBC Student Plan 
SBC Yahoo! DSl Express + Your local Access line 
as low as 
$ 
75* 
a month for a g-month term! 
•other monthly charges apply. 


Taxes, other charges and the Federal Universal Service Fund cost-recovery fee extra. For details of additional charges, restrictions and requirements, caiiJ-866-472-7965 toll-free or visit sbc.wm/u. SBC, the SBC logo and other SBC product names are trademarks and/or service marks of SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. and/or its affiliates. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. ©2005 SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. All rights reserved. IN 

THE OBSERVER 

USINESS
Tuesday, September 27, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,443.63 +24.04
jones 
'~ 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,843 I 4 5 ~, 2,022,221,090 
AMEX 1,727.12 +3.66 NASDAQ 2,121.46 +4.62 NVSE. 7,556.45 +37.55 S&PSOO 1,215.63 +0.32 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 13,392.63 0.00 FTSE. IOO(London) 5,453.10 +39.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) +0.03 +0.0 I 38.71 
ORACLE CORP (ORCL) -0.40 -0.05 12.4( 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -0.72 -0.13 17.9: 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 0.00 0.00 25.2: 
INTEL CP (INTC) -0.66 -0.16 24.2: 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.09 +0.49 45.58 
I0-YEAR NOTE + 1.08 +0.46 42.94 
5-YEAR NOTE +0.98 +0.40 41.13 
3-MONTH BILL + 1.03 +0.35 34.25 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.63 65.82 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.30 469.50 
PORK BELLIES (cents.'lb.) +3.00 90.35 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 12.1650 
EURO 0.8284 
POUND 1.5620 
CANADIAN$ 1.1727 
IN BRIEF 
Crude oil prices fall despite Rita 
NI·:W YOBK -Crud1~ oil futures rnvnrsnd 
t.hnir losing course Monday to rnbound more 
than a dollar, settling above $65 a ba.rrnl, as 
hurricann-rnlatml jitters caught up with the 
marknt. 
Thn lnap higher rode a. pricn surge in 
ndirwd-produet futures, led by lwating oil. 
Marknt observ1~rs said the day's pricn swings wnrn sudden and oftnn unprodictabln, as mwrgy tradPrs sorted through a wildernnss of arwcdotal, corporate and govnrnmnnt n~ports on U.S. 1mergy infrastructurn following llurricann Bit.a and vestigial damagn from early Septemlwr's llurricane Katrina. 
"There are just so many things going on, that I think it's going to takn a few weeks to sort out. all thn issuns and dntnrrninn what thn long-tnrm fundarnnntal picturn is," said Torn Bentz, a broker in Nnw York at Frnnch bank BNI' l'arihas. "At this point, I'm not convincnd tlu~ long-term uptrend is linislwd." 
While early marknt activity allowml for sonw profit-taking. supply conenrns settlnd hark into tlw marknt by thn afternoon as 14.5 per-cent of tlw nation's relining eapadty staynd ofT linn along tho U.S. Gulf Coast and the majority of oil and natural gas production in the region mmainmllocked in. 
Strategic oil reserves may be tapped 
WASIIINGTON -President Bush said Monday that thn govnrnmnnt is prnparnd to again tap thn Strategic Petrolnum Hnserve to alleviate any nnw pain at tho pump caused by llurrkarw Hita's assault on thn cnnter of thn nation's nnnrgy industry, and hn asked Anwricans not to drive if thny don't have to. 
lin also impliml hn will likely narnn a fnderal ~~zar-lik1~ oflidal to ovnrsnn tho roconstruction of t.lw (iulf Coast from the dnvastation 1:aused by llurrkann Katrina. But lw said that local oftirials must first produce a vision for how tlwy want thnir rebuilt communitins to look. 
Son. David Viltor. H-La.. said Monday he had urgod tlw prosidiHJt to place "a strong fnderal loader on tlw Katrina rnconstruction niTort" bny<HJd tlw short-tenn rnlinf effort.. Sueh a "rpr.onsl.rur.tion ezar" would also nned to rrrako surn tlu~re were no improprinties in awarding tlw lucrative rneonstruetion eon­tracts, Vittnr said. 
Businesses rebuild after Katrina 
Small business owners remain in New Orleans despite devastating losses 
Associated Press 
NEW OHLEANS -Claire 
Ryan doesn't know yet if 
she'll bo able to got her 
small businoss up and run­
ning again in Nnw Orleans, 
but she's anxious to get 
back to the city and try. 
"Absolutely New Orleans 
is my homo," said Ryan, 
who owns a Drama Kids 
franchisn in the city's 
Carden District. Having 
evaeuated before 
II urricann K~trina struck. 
she's currently in llouston, 
evaluating if she indeed 
can reopnn the business, 
which runs drama pro­
grams for school-age chil­
dren. 
A handful of small busi­
ness owners interviewed 
by The Assodatnd l'rnss all 
said thny wanted to return 
to Now Orleans and restart 
their eompanins. llow cer­
tain they are about their 
chances for su1:cess 
depends largely on the 
nature of their nntnrprises, 
not on how much damage 
the businesses suffered. 

For Hyan, the qunstion is whether the ehildrmi that themselves; all but one of "we fan~d much better as well as a cup of jon and so her company serves will the stores sum~rnd major than a lot of my fellow a reopened Fair Grinds ean come back to the area, or flood damage. Their homes shop owners... The build­help n~build a neighbor­whether their families will near the 17th Street canal ing is reasonably intact, hood. In the meantime, as relocate elsPwhere. were inundated. but flooded. I'll have to pull he stays in Houston. hn 's 
"All of' my children have The family is undaunted. out sheetrock and cabi­been in touch with and got­been lost or scattered," she "We have nothing to go netry. but by and large I'm ten tognther with sonw of said, and noted that her horne to, but we are very not facing the kind of dam­his displaced eustomers. teachers have also left the fortunate," Vodanovich age that so many are." Connie Zibilich Melancon city. "I don't know what said. "We're all going to try Still, while he says, "I was helping to tnar down I'm going back to." to go back and rebuild fully intend to rebuild and hnr dneimated homo whnn a 
Hyan's horne and busi­what wfi can." get going again," like Hyan reporter called f(w an inter­ness are in the city's The brothers sen starting he's worried about the eus­view, but tho ownnr of a Garden District, and she over as an opportunity. tomers he's lost, and very Children's Orchard franchise believes her house was "We feel like we have a concerned about l'inding soundnd upbeat about her heavily damaged by a fall­clean slate.... We know worker his staff was large­business and looking to en oak tree. She expnets to what mistakes we have to ly made up of college stu­reopnn Oct. 1. The store in be in llouston for several avoid," said Vodanovich. dents, and many have tem­Old Metairie. whieh sells months while shn decides who was staying with porarily enrollnd in schools lightly usnd childn~n·s cloth­what to do. friends in Tallahassee, Fla. around the country. llis ing, furniturP and toys. suf­
Adam Vodanovich and Another New Orleans horne nearby appears to fnn~d no darnagn, and his brothers suiTnred cata­store owner, Hobert have escaped damage. Zibilieh Melancon nxpncts strophic losses. They are Thompson, considers him­What helps Thompson's thorn to be a rnarknt for lwr the master franchisors for self lucky. lie has seen pic­optimism is !.he fad that his diseountNI merchandise 11 Wing Zonn fast-food tures of thn flood damage store is a magnnt for poople whnn parnnts star!. replacing outlets in New Orleans, at his colTon house, Fair they're looking li1r the social their childrnn 's possessions owning four franchises Grinds, near City Park, and atmosphere of a coll'nnhousn lost to Katrina. 

Sony plans to cut jobs and plants 
and shrinking or eliminating 15 callnd "ehampion prodwts" induding
Associated Press 

unprofitable electronics operations by the PlayStation3 next-gnrwration 
TOKYO -Sony Corp.'s Howard the same deadline. Sony refused to videogame eonsole, Bravia liquid Stringer. the llrst foreigner to head say what those businesses were. erystal display televisions and the Japanese elnetronics and enter­Stringer, a British-American dual Walkman MP3 musie playnrs whosr~ tainment company, promised a deci­citizen, acknowledged that times have sales are miserably far bohind thosn sive turnaround Thursday centered changed. Unlike the old days when of Apple Computnr Inc.'s iPod. on cutting jobs, dosing plants and Sony ruled electronics with its manu­Analysts were not impressnd by shndding unprolitable businesses. facturing finesse, it now faces tough Stringer's game plan. 
But many analysts said his plan competition and cheaper prices that Instead of deciding on spin-ol'f's or lacked crnativity and vision for a are turning Sony products into mere outlining a clearer way of rnlating world in which eonsumer electronics "commodities," hn told reporters at a elnetronics with entertainment, Sony's eompanies are being forced to adapt Tokyo hotnl. proposal sounded much like othnr nimbly to shirting information and "Staying ahead of this curve by plans to strearnlirw t.hn corporate entertainment consumption patterns om~ring the eonsumer truly dill'en~nti­strueturn to eliminate redundancins. brought on by tho lntnrnet and wire­atml produets where we can maintain they said. less rnvolutions. our standing as a premium brand is a "If I had to give a gradn to lloward 
Those samn analysts did not, how­fundamental strategic imperative," Stringer, I'd givn him a <>plus," said ever, deny tho nend for eost cuts, Stringer said. "We need to focus .John Yang, analyst with Standard & which indudml slashing 10,000 jobs, soleetively and aggrnssively on b1~ing Poor's in Tokyo. "Sony still wants to or about 6 pnreent of' Sony's global thn No. 1 eonsumer electronies and bo the master of the universe. They work force, by thn end of March 2008. entertainment company on the plan­want to conquer entnrtainnwnt; tlwy 
Thn shaknup also calls for dosing et." want to conquer consunwr ~~lndron­11 of' Sony's 65 manufacturing plants Sony said it would focus now on so-ies; they want to conquPr ganws." 
page 8 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Tuesday, September 27, 2005 
Kutcher and Moore tie the knot in Calif. 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -May and December married in autumn. 
Ashton Kutcher and Derni Moore, who reportedly wed Saturday, are the latest epito­me of the May-December romance -a classic, gossip­loving match of young and old. 
Us Weekly and People maga­zines reported that Kutcher, 27, and Moore, 42, tied the knot in Beverly Hills, Calif., after dating for two years. 
At first. many wondered how Kutcher and Moore fit as a couple and why Bruce Willis, Moor's ex-husband and the father of her three daughters, hadn't punk'd that kid from "That '70s Show." 
Although extremely private, tho couple offered glirnpes of their connection. Moore said in an interview in the September issue of Harper's Bazaar maga­zine that Kutcher was her "soul mate." 
Willis, meanwhile, has been open about liking Kutcher. 
Eventually, it was clear this wasn't an episode of Kutcher's MTV prank show. Instead, it was another story of love con­quering age. 
"The younger man is attract­ed to an older woman most likely because of her poise, her social graces, her contacts. She has a polish he hasn't yet acquired," Dr. Joyce Brothers says of the younger man-older woman dynamic. 
"She, on the other hand, could be attracted to his prom­ise in their mutual endeavor ­
· in this case Hollywood. Or his exuberance, his fresh way of looking at the world," Brothers told The Associated Press on Monday. Brothers added that a woman's sexual peak is at a later age. The May-December match is happening more, she said, because "we're remaining vigorous, active and healthy longer -men and woman. The younger person doesn't have to worry about spending long -years nursing the older one." Always a pairing ripe for fic­tion -the films "Harold and Maude," "The Graduate," "Something's Gotta Give" and "How Stella Got Her Groove Back" are examples -the allure of the older woman is also a Hollywood reality. Tim Robbins, 12 years younger than his companion, Susan Sarandon. has shown for almost two decades that the power of love (and/or liberal­ism) is beyond numbers. Guy Ritchie is 10 years younger than Madonna; Sheryl Crow is nine years older than 
her fiance, Lance Armstrong. Justin Timber-lake, 24, and 33­year-old Cameron Diaz have been an item for over a year, while Julianne Moore, 44, is married to Bart Freundlich, 35. 
Geena Davis, television's new "Commander-in-Chief," is mar­ried to 34-year-old Dr. Reza Jarrahy, who is 15 years younger. Ralph Fiennes, 42, has dated Francesca Annis, 61, for years. 
Elizabeth Taylor is 20 years older than her last ex-hus­band, Larry Fortensky. Cher's former boyfriend Rob Carnilletti was 23 when she was 40. And Mary Tyler Moore's husband, Dr. Robert Levine, is 18 years younger. 
When comedian-singer Martha Raye married her sev­enth husband, Mark Harris, in 1991, she was 75 and he was 42. 
Older men who have married younger women include Woody Allen (35 years older than Soon-Yi), Clint Eastwood (25 years older than Dina), Michael Douglas (25 years older than Catherine Zeta-Jones) and Jerry Seinfeld (18 years older than Jessica). 
For non-Hollywood couples, there are online dating servic­es designed to bring together singles seeking an "age-gap relationship." The slogan of http://www.rnaydecernber.net is "years apart, corning together." 
'JfflNJ ~rJJIJJrJrJJlf fw!i' JErJ/hfl({;& (JJIJJ(j} lll..rBil/J'l{flWTJJ& fY(JJIJIJJ(!J& iJ!IJ ll3TJJ&!JlJJ(!J&& (fllTlril 


Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the John A. Berges Endowment) 
"Faith and Fortune in Business" 
Marc Gunther Senior writer at Fortune magazine and author of Faith and Fortune: The Quiet Revolution to Reform American Business 
Wednesday, September 28, 2005 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza College of Business 
Mrica Faith and Justice Network: Michael Poffenberger. Augustinian Volunteers: Mary Maryanne McElwee; Anne McGrarh; Jane Mitsch; Maria Smith. PLACE Corps: Kathryn Ronan. Augustinian Volunteer Program -Chicago: Michael McCusker. Amate House: Kinnier; Katie Laskasky; Rita Morgan; Amy Peckins; Stephanie Vieron. Puerto Rico Stephanie Garza; Melinda Meckley; Kathleen Kilcline; Jake Weiler. AmeriCorps: Amelia Center for Social Concerns: Megan Buller; Patricia Guzman; Christina Velasquez. Rostro Hoffmann; Andrew Hoyt; Leslie Humboldt; Alison Jones. Amigos de Jesus: Maureen de Cristo: Jacqueline Heap. St. Joseph's Prep School Alumni Service Corps: Benjamin Wolfe-Bertling. Andre House: Maria Candelaria. Campus Ministry Internship: Haney. Summerbridge Pittsburgh: Greg Laski. Teach for America: Mary Boland; Emily Christina Bax; Lauren Prieto; Brian Vassel. Casa de Esperanza: Diane Heilmann. Camisasca; Megan Casserlie; Kathleen Chenoweth; Elizabeth Donnelly; Teresa Fralish; Catholic Relief Services: Teresa Hansen. .-----------------..,------------, Justin Halls; Katie Hench; Melissa Hemges; 
Chapin Street Clinic: Chris Schuster. Christ House: Mark Ellestad. Christian Appalachian Project: Amblyn Allen; James Finnegan III. Christian Brothers Lay Program: Colleen Marie Case. ECHO Faith Formation Leadership Program: Stacy Arbogast; David Ballinryn; Rose Beauclair; Kyle Bertoli; Kenna 
Brewer; Christina Dehan; Beth Franz:,sa; William Spencer McSorley; Amanda Murillo; Alexa Puscas; Danielle Reyes; Paul Sifuentes; Rachel Wack. Fellowship of Christian Athletes: Nicole Rapagnani. Farm of the Child: D. Michael Adams; Claire Hoipkemier. Good Shepherd Volunteers: Megan Davisson. Holy Cross Associates: Kate Duman; Perula 
Fernandes; Holly Gilbertson; Carrie Lett; 
Matthew Kuczora; Meredith Mechenbier; Shanrha Ready; Michelle Rogers; Andrea Wysocki; Caitlin Early (Chile); Ryan Greenberg 
(Chile). Holy Cross Overseas Lay Missionary 

Program: Jessica Brock; Michael Clements. L __________::::::::=::::::=:_ _j Eric Nirz; Maya Noronha; Patrick O'Keefe; 


Think Outside The Box 
Consider joining these graduates who have committed to a year or two with post graduate service programs. 
Post-Graduate Service Fair 
Wednesday, September 
5 -8 p.m. @ Stepan Center 
C: E N T E R F 0 R 
~;'N~~:N~ 
Interfaith Action/Student Farmworker Alliance: Melody Gonzalez. Jesuit Volunteer Corps: Ellen Kennedy. Koinonia University Outreach: Hannah Clare Gornik. LANCE: Erin Marx. Lutheran Volunteer Corps: Abigail Braun; Sang Yup Lee. Mentoring Academic Gifts in Service: Kendra Simpson. Mercy Home for Boys and Girls: Megan McCormick; Catherine Susanne Schmidt. Mercy Volunceer Corps: Dana Srovall. Mount Carmel High School: Jeremy lruelove. Nativity Prep Academy: Jessica White. PACE: Erika .Bramley. Passionist Volunteers International: 'lerri Baxter. Peace Corps: Meryl Guyer; Patricia Kim; Zhu Jun Liong; 
Geoffrey Johnston; Julie LaBelle; Gavin Lamb; Jenna Linder; Patrick Magee; Mary Mcinerney; Cassandra Meyer; Katie Poholek; Colin Pogge; Marco Sandusky; Rebecca Walter; Daphne Zeringue. University of Fondwa: Brian McElroy. VIDES West USA: Eric Wooldridge. Vincentian Service Corps: Katherine Osrerholz. WorldTeach: Elizabeth Galezio; Cara Spicer; Jeremy Staley. Alliance for Catholic Education: 
KadJJyn Aiello; Thomas Anthony; Anna Arias; 
Richard Austin Ill; Sarah Bares; Sarah Cancellare; Nicholas Dailey; Lynne DeFilippo; 
Kari Duffey; Lauren Flynn; April Michelle Garcia; ]dna than Gargano; Nicholas Green; 

Emily Gorman; Katie Hesmond; Joseph Herder; 
Matthew Houlihan; Courtney Jianas; Elizabeth 
Kerrerhagen; James Kilroy; Karhryn Kinner; Jocelyn Landgraf; Darren Lufr; Joseph Lucero; Marianne Magjuka; Jacqueline McAdams; Lindsay MacRandall; Eric Morin; Kate Nienaber; 
Jacqueline Pimentel-Gannon; Sarah Popek; Walter Pruchnik; Derek Ray; AdarelyTrejo; Anrhony Van Gessel; Charleen Vinalon; John Waldron; Ann Walorski; Dominic Yonto. Programs to be determined: Stephanie Aberger; Justin Alanis; Katherine Bobo; Kary Crone; Erin Cumberworrh; Erin Dwyer; Lee Gertler; Katie Grimes; Elizabeth Kilcline; Lisa Kolar; Nick Kolman-Mandie; Nicholas Lescanic; Julia Longoria; Tiffanne !xlahomes; Maria Monroe; Katie Mulcahy; Dan Parziale; Katrina Picon; Grise! Ruiz; Emily Rumora; Dan Schnorr; DeMark Schulze; Linda Skalski; Rashelle Simpson; Lindsay Till; Allison Vater; Danielle Wright. (As of May 2005) 
Wednesday, September 28th Saturday, October 1st 7:00pm -vs. Bradley 
7:00pm -vs. West Virginia 

Autograph books sponsored Free Soccer scarves to first by Marathon to first 250 fans 
300 fans sponosored by First 100 fans receive a Chevrolet GOLD GAMES T-Shirt 




Tuesday, September 27, 2005 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
FYS 
continued from page 1 
organizPd. 
T lw I. H C a Is o p r o v i d e s assistanee in improving l·:nglish language skills of non-native speakers. 
Sandra llarrnatiuk, one of two J.HC dirPctors who pros­Pnts workshops and providos individual instruction, pre­dieted that this year's fresh­man elass will usn tho LHC more than tlw proviolls five ynars' classes by tho end of the fall snnwstnr. 
"In the past l'ivn ynars, tl111 avnrag11 number of participants in 
I. n a r n i n g ".';ome students an average of Strategies pro­may only have one, 488 individual 
grams has avct·­meetings with
one-to-one meeting 
aged 225," first year stu­
llarmatiuk said. with their advisors. dents during the "As of tlHl end of Others have many fall semester. thn fourth week "Some stu­
more. It depends on
of elasses. the dents may only participation is the needs ofthe have one one-to­alrnady at 110 -student." one meeting more than dou­with their advi­ble Iin I the same sor, others have 
Holly Martin
period for 2004." many more," In addition to assistant dean Martin said. "It providing stu­First Year of Studies depends on the 
dents with the I.HC, FYS gives students access to poor advi­sors, upperelassmon who pro­vide informal help in matters of adjusting to campus and dorm life as well as study habits. 
SornP freshmen still don't rnalizn that thny have access to pner advisors. 
When asknd if she had visit­ed a peer advisor yet, Kristina Merz said, "No. Do wn have one of those?" 
llowever. most freshmen said they knew and had met with their peer advisor. 
"It was helpful to meet my peer advisor because she is really knowledgeabln about tho resourcos available to first year students," freshman Alnssandra Bouehard said. "I know that if I have any prob­lmns in tho future she will be a good person to go to." 
Not all f'roshmen, however, found tho nxpnrinnee so ben­nl'icial. 
"Actually, I would have rather stayed horne to do honwwork." freshman Matt Kernan said. "It didn't really help too rnueh." 
Through FYS. freshmen also have individual meetings with their acadnmic advisors to diseuss subjects likn roquirod classes and poten­tial majors. Assistant FYS dean !lolly Martin said each full-time first year advisor has 
needs of the stu­dent." These needs may be mini­mal, in the freshman's eyes. 
AI though the FYS keeps "pestnring" him to set up an appointment. freshman Nathan Bernardi said, "I don't have time for it right now." 
But freshman Devin Fee found his meeting with his academic advisor useful. 
"It helped me put things in perspective," Fee said. "She organized my priorities and promised support if I needed 
il... 
Contact Peter Ninneman at Pninnema@nd.edu 
They get you all exeited," she said. "Everyone that
Fortune 

works on the show wants continued from page 1 you to make money. Thny 
really want you to win." service project and wasn't Fctta said a few details sure if she could make the about the show would sur­trip.· prise pBople who havo only 
"My paronts flew me out seen it on tcl!l­for one day to do the audi­vision. tion," she said. "There wore "The set is 
about 300 people and only really small. "Anybody can be on lwr own. since 30 mov!HI on ... It all hap­They have a lot she is spend­
television. and that's

pened really fast." nl' trieks to ing lwr spring F1~tta filled out an applica­make it look exciting. It was a sn m ns tn r in tion online several years ago bigger," she whirlwind l.ondon. Sho and forgot about it. But all said, adding, may IWIHl usn
experience.

along she l'elt she had a "You have to s o m e o f lw r knack !'or games like Wheel hold the wheel winnings, of Fortune. a certain way. Lisa Fetta whieh will Fetta said the most dil'l'i­They have Wheel of Fortune winner probably total 
cult parts of her experience lawyers stand­were knowing that so much ing on the side was on the line in such a to makfl sure short amount of time. and you do it right." feeling like she had no con­The college contestants all 
trol. 
But Petta said there were plenty of upsides, including the chance to see how game shows really work. 
"You're real­ly lucky to be in that posi­tion," she said. "There are so many people that want to be on the show." 
Wheel of Fortune only films twiee a week for five 

had time to get to know each other, and Fetta said she still 
"The set is really keeps in contact 
with some of

small. They have a 
them. She also 

lot oftrick!i to make got to meet it look bigger. You Wheel of 
Fortune host Pat

have to hold the 
Sajak.

wheel a certain "Pat's really way. The lawyers short," she said, laughing. "lie's
standing on the side 
really person­

make sure you do it able. It's the right." perfect job l'or him." Fetta mot
Lisa Fetta 
some even more 

Wheel of Fortune 
interesting 

winner and unexpected -charaeters in her hotel, which 
weeks a year, Fetta said, so seemed more like a zoo. she had the opportunity to College mascots from all watch a girl from Madison in over the country were par-the show filmed before her 
win around $66,000. Fetta noticed the people backstage were just as excited as most of the competitors. 
Write for News. 

"They hire all these people to pep up the contestants. 
Call Heather at 1-5323. 



CJ & Company Hair and Tanning Salon @North Village Mall 52565 State Rd. 933 N. South Bend,IN 46637 (574)277-2926 
_,;~~~,,---·--··---...~~,..."

Bebuild lives. 
Perms, Haircuts, Color,
$12.00 

HiLites, Facial Waxing,

You can help. Find out how. 
Ttlnning
Haircuts! 

Fall Break Trip to the Gulf Coast 
Walk Ins Welcome 

Oct. 16-0ct. 21 ,---------------------,
I I 
I$2.00 OffHaircut l 
I I I I I I
I •Not Valid w/Men's Day l 
I I I I 
1---------------------J 
Information Session 
Thursday, Sept. 29 
7:00pm 
Recker's Hospitality Room. 

Sponsored by the Alliance for Catholic Education 
tieipaling in thn shows and wearing very ~~lahoratn and nxpnnsive !~ostunws around tho hotel. 
"They're tlw strangest pPo­ple," shn said. "Tiwy l'lnw in people to.. hnlp carry tlwir cos lu nws. 
Fntta will lw 
doing SOillP 
mon~ l'lyi ng ol' 
closer to 
$H,OOO al'ter 
taxes whnn she receives them in February, to throw a party while abroad. llowever, she said most of her money will go towards law school, if she decides to pursue that path. 
Fetta said the University and her friends and family have all been very support­ive. The Hammes Bookstore let her pick out any shirt she wanted, for free, to wear on the show. and on the night thn show airs, she thinks that her dorm and her friends will be making a party out of it. 
"It was a good experience and I feel more eoml'ortable in front of crowds," Fetta said. "Anybody can be on television, and that's exeit­ing. 
"It was a whirlwind expnri­ence." 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd.edu 
'•o, -----.....OM' __.._,..,/....,1' 
r----------------~-----,
I I 
I S5.00 Off I 
I I 
I Chemical SeiTice l 
I I I I I I I I 
L----------------------J 


Wednesday\ Men's Day ) Haircuts 
// $10.00 
r---------------------,! Buy aTanning Package, ! 
J  Get 5Additional Sessions  1  
I  Free!  I  
I  I  
I  I  
I  I  

~---------------------j 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Tuesday, September 27, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Liberty for all? 
Tbe lntkp~nJ,.,.t, Daily Newspt~ptr &rving Nom Dn.ml!! JJ.nd Saint MaryJ 
I~O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Par Leonard Paula Garcia 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 

ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 

AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (~74) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 News DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoint.! @nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 

PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the studenrs of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial contem, including advertisementS, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insrimtion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The tree expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to FLiitor in ChiefCldire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The: Observer (USPS ~')<) 2-4000) i.~ published Monday thmugh Friduy cxc:!,:pl during 
c:x.1m .md V3C.lriun puiud~. Asub•..cripriun w The Observer is$\()() for cme ao::adc:mk 
ycJr; $55 lor one scmc~tc:r. 
The: Observer is publi!lhc:J .u: POHMASTER 

024 Sl)urh Dining Hall Send Jddrts.~ cutrections m: 
Nom:· Danu:. IN 46'556·0779 ThC"Ohscrvcr 
Pcriodica.l pusrJ~c: paid a1 Notre O.m1e P.O.flox779 

and addition~ I mailing olficc),., 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame:, IN 46S56-0779 
The: Ob5erver tl> a mc:mhc:r of rhe Aswt:tatcd Prtss. AI! rc:prudm:tiun right~ .uc rcsc:rVt":d. ' 
Notre Dame's refusal to recognize the Gay/Straight Alliance is a wretched dis­grace that is based upon a gross distor­tion of the actual message of Jesus. The fundamentalists allege that homosexual­ity is a perversion, even if they try to cover it up with non­sensical rhetoric attempting to draw a false division between the state of bning homosexual and the act itself. 
The nature of an event is found within the occurrence of the action. It is within the homosexual act that The Right l-iew the internal nature of the homosexual is expressed. If on(~ was to be born such that they loved pasta, but never ate pasta, then he or slw could not be said to be a pasta eatnr that observes absti­nence from eating pasta. It is just as ludicrous to claim that one can have a certain sexual orientation and not express it. The two are inexorably linked. 
The opponnnts of nxpanding full rights to gay students ol"tnn appeal to Catholic doctrine or specific Bible passages. All religions are human attnmpts to inter­pret the divine's attempt to communi­cate, and mistakes are always going to be made so long as we try to use human logic and languages to express the lan­guage of the divine. Desperately clasp­ing a few phrases from the gospels and failing to acknowledge that these were written in the moral tradition of the Jews of the first century C. E., the funda­mentalists fail to separate the divine from the human within the gospels. 
Notre Dame is indeed a Catholic school and should not shed her roots within that faith, yet she also should not attempt to force her morality upon the student body. A moral codn propped up under compulsion is one that exists only in the minds of the enforcers. The University should promote an open, lib­erated intellectual environment. By fail­ing to acknowledge the rights of a cer­tain group, the enforcers harm everyone by deflating the spirit of aeademfc free­dom that should pervade any such place that intends to promote a flowering of the human soul and intPllect. 


This school's policy is one that con­forms to the general ignorance and hatred that typifies America's intoler­ance of her significant homosexual minority. Every citizen deserv1~s thP exact equal rights as another under the laws of our land. The refusal to grant precise equality is a sickening example of a certain fundamentalist view clawing its way into the state. 
The essential reason that gay mar­riage is illegal is that the idna tnrrifies tho evangelical right that pours vast sums of cash and votes into the Hnpublican party. Afraid to lose the sup­port or gain the irn of this critical demo­graphic, both Republieans and moderate Demoerats refuse to take up the issue and hide their cowardice behind a translucent veil of deeeptivn phrases like "the sanctity of marriagp" or the "tradi­tional definition of marriage." 
The very term "civil union" smacks of inherent discrimination. I will get to marry my wife, and a gay person will have a civil union. This logic sounds very similar to the "separate but equal" language of the civil rights struggle. The existence of marriages and civil unions is similar to having "white" and "col­ored" water fountains.This dichotomy of spp,ech attempts to rationalize and euphemize the fact that the religious right has no real logical reason why gay people should not share equal rights of marriage; and there view is based upon dogged puritanism, a fear of change, and a blinding love of tradition. 
The argument that activist judges are overturning the will of the majority by granting equal rights to homosexuals is as fallacious as it is dangerous. A dnmoeracy is not a tyranny of the major­ity, nor was it intended to be one by our founding l"athers. If one should doubt this, he or she should read the Fnderalist Papers of Alexander Hamilton, John Jay and James Madison. The Frnn1:h political thinker Alexis De Toequeville was most apt wlwn said "If ever the free institutions of America are destroyed, that event will arise from the unlimited tyranny of the majority." Pray we are not now planting the very seeds of the fall of the American Hepublie. 
If anyone should be surprised that a heterosnxual, former pn~sident of the College Hnpublicans should write this column. hn should not be. It is tlw saered duty for every American to safe­guard tlw fre1~doms of their fellow citi­zens. Citizenship is not a merely a legal status, it is privilege that eomes with great benefits and obligations. One sueh obligation is to possnss a finn:e znal l"or proteeting the rights of all ;\nwri!:ans. The body politic must prevent any minority l"rom bc>ing trampled. Nations do not l"all into th1~ precipice ol" tyranny overnight, but only after the rock of lib­erty has been slowly chipped away one group or right at a time. 

Ian Ronderos is a senior majoring in the Classics with a supplementary major in Ancient Greek and Roman Civilizations. He is the current president emeritus and chair of the education committee for the Notre Dame College Republicans. He can be contacted at irondero@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

r, THE rNCOi\\PETENT BUSH A'VMlN\~TRATION CONTrNUE~ 1'0 BLUNDER ALONG) HOMELAND SECUT<ITY ¥; Ptlt<E rtC1tON. THE PR~CE 0~ GASOUNE l'S SKY '-!IGH.AND RA.CE RElATtoNS A.RE p...r A NEW LOW.. WE NOW R£TURN YOU TO YOUR REGUlA.l<.L'I SCHEVUlfD PROGRAM Ot:" Cfl£BRITY e.ossr R" 

TODAY'S STAFF 
News 
OBSERVER POLL

Maddie Hanna Sports Mary Kate Mike Gilloon Malone Ken Fowler How have you gotten in Anthony Kyle Cassily 
trouble at Notre Dame? 

Iannamorelli Scene Viewpoint Mark Becca Rosswurm Bemenderfer Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. Graphics at www.ndsmcobserver.com Kelly MacDonald 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

SubmitaLetter
:·· .·. .,. ·.·. ·'· . . ·._, .·. •));..... ., .. •.. . :-. ~~,: 
"We could never learn to be brave 
and patien:t ifthere were only joy 
m the world. "

1to tbe Editor at 1 Helen Keller activist·www.ndsmcobserver.com I 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Tuesday, September 27, 2005 page 11 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Concert attendance disappoints 
At the concnrt Thursday evening featuring leg­nndary pianist Leon Fleisher with the University symphony and choirs, the Leighton Concert Hall was only half full. This was particularly surprising for us musicians, since we were informed that every snat was rnserved for a University official or visiting inaugural guest who had committed to coming. Why was Notre Dame unable to greet this world-renownnd artist with a full house (in an only moderately-sized concert hall)? Why weren't stu­dnnts invitnd to this unique event or any of the othnr simultaneous art events celebrating the inau­guration? (This point is especially pressing, since half thn snats were empty.) Why did many of the concnrtgoers leave the performance at intermis­sion? Thnsn qunstions arn fresh in the minds of the musicians who dedicated so many extra hours of rehearsal to the concert. It was disheartening for all of us to expect a full house and find instead half of an audience straggling in ten and fifteen min­utes after the performance was scheduled to com­mence. 
The purpose of this letter is not to assign blame, but to provide an impetus for a campus discussion of the role of the arts at Notre Dame. We are truly blessed as students to have such an extraordinary performing arts center with an equally extraordi­nary concert schedule. We cannot thank enough those responsible for building and maintaining the program. But have we been found worthy of these blessings? DPAC Director John Haynes has inspired us with his vision of a "culture of the arts" on cam-pus-but we are far from this goal. The Thursday concert witnesses the fact that University officials and professors need to work as hard as the stu­dents in building this culture. It is a task that must be accomplished together; holding special invita­tion concerts to celebrate the arts at Notre Damn simply does not make sense. With the new per­forming arts center, we havn the matnrial and the occasion for art to take place. Now Notrn Damn needs only the will to make it happon. 
Mark Thomas Joseph representing Universiry choir members 
senior 
Sorin Hall Sept. 25 

Pride in Weis' character 
As a Saint Mary's graduate, I have ing the community as well. fnlt honor and pridn when watching This is not the first kind story I Notre Damn football. nspncially this have heard about this man. But I ynar. Growing up. my family was can honestly say that I am so proud from South Bend and Notre Dame to have a coach such as himself, was all I knnw. llowfwer, I have and think that Notre Dame, Saint nnvnr l'nlt so much pride to be a Mary's and even the city of South part ol' thn Notrn Dame community Bend should be honored to have him as I did aftnr rnading thn story on as part of the community. Charlin Wnis and the Irish this Once again, Weis and the Irish morning. have proved why Notre Dame's foot­
I livn in Indianapolis, and ball will continue to be as great a although you will find Notre Dame tradition as it has been. It doesn't fans, it is not like the atmosphere of always have to do with how many South Bend where the majority live games you win (although they a:re and breath Notre Dame. On a local off to a great start). It is about how radio station this morning, they told much class and character a team tho story of Weis and Montana, the shows. With that said, I don't think child with a brain tumor. I was so there is a team that can compare to moved I looked the story up online our Irish. Thank you for proving and forwarded it to everyone I another reason why Notre Dame know. and its community excels above the 
Not much needs to be said about rest. Wnis. We all expected that he would come into this community and help Libby Springer improve our football team. I don't alumna think we all counted on his improv-Sept. 26 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Gold*? Fine by me 
After this weekend's thrilling victory over Washington. I would like to encourage everyone traveling to Purdue this weekend to wear gold*. Let's end the controversy over the shirt and show our opponents how much we support our team. I was impressed at tho number of Irish fans I saw at Pittsburgh, l'illing the golden* seats of Heinz Finld with so many golden* shirts. Michigan was no disappointmnnt either, as thn Irish fans stood out in their gold* once again. It snmnnd as if the entire Michigan student section was rooting for the Irish, as thny too were clad in gold*. This Saturday is another opportunity to show our 
colors and cover Ross Ade stadium in a golden* shower.  Go Irish, Beat  
Boilerm akers!  
* gold  =  yellow  
John Anderson  
alumnus  
Sept. 24  

U-WIRE 

Bayh votes against Roberts 
Indiana Sen. Evan Bayh announced Friday he would vote against the nomi­nation of John Roberts to be the next chief justice of the U.S. Supreme Court. We are disappointed. 
The Democratic senator, jockeying Staff for a presidential bid Editorial in 2008, said in a 
Indiana Daily 

statement he would 
Student

vote against Roberts 
Indiana
not because he 
University

opposed the nomi­nee, but because "we simply do not know enough about his views on critical issues to make a considered judgment. And that is the standard that must be met for a life­time appointment to our nation's high­est court." 
We understand Bayh 's concern. In many instances we believe that Hoberts artfully dodged vital questions from the senators quizzing him. But what else was Hobcrts to do? Ruin his necessary impartiality as a judge by ranting on details of cases? 
Let there be no mistake: Our support for Hoberts is not unified or solid. If Hoberts lives as long as his predeces­sor, the late Chief Justice William II. Hehnquist, he might very well be chief justice until people in their late teens and early 20s are in their late 40s and early 50s-a sizable chunk of our lives. Not many chief justices arc given such opportunities to influence and preside over the Court for so long. 
We have strong concerns about women's rights, civil rights, privacy and separation of government powers all issues the Court will surely address in the future and issues we hope Roberts will examine closely. 
After his televised confirmation hearings and the way he juggled the Senate Judiciary Committee, we lind Roberts to be an intnlligent and snnsi­ble jurist, seemingly respectful of precedent and nowhere near an ideo­logue who will rock the Court sharply to the right. 
If you're a liberal and upset with Roberts, it's important to realize he's probably the best option you're going to get from President Bush. 
Noted liberal senators seem to understand this. Vermont. Sen. Patrick Leahy and Wisconsin Sons. Ilerb Kohl and Hussell Feingold, all Dmnocrats, voted within committcw Thursday to confirm Hoberts. And although all have expressed concerns, all see Hoberts as a qualified choiee for the bench. 
The Washington partisan pressure cooker has made it more dil'fieult to get much aceomplislwd collectively. 
Today it seems it would be dil'lkult even to confirm the Court's great. past justices, like Oliver Wnndnll I lolmns or Earl Warren. 
Hoberts hasn't. dnmonstratod a dear reason why he should not be tho next ehiefjustice of the Supremo Court. By succumbing to political intnrnsts, Bayh has demonstrated to us his real rnason to vote against a qualilied nomi1we: lle'd like to win the 2008 Dnmocratie presidential primary. 
This rolumn originally appeared in the Sept. 26 issue of the Indiana Daily Student, the daily publicalion at Indiana University. 
The views expressed in this editorial are those of the autlwr and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, September 27, 2005 
VIDEO GAME REVIEWS 
'Geist' a spooky, albeit mediocre time 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Assistant Scene Editor 

For further proof that the first-per­son shooter is starting to run out of ideas, look no further than "Geist," a truly bizarre action/adventure game exclusively for Nintendo Gamecube. The game's premise involves a disem­bodied scientist who has the ability to inhabit other people, animals and objocts. 
The player takes control of John Haimi, a spirit ripped from his body by the evil Yolks corporation. Aside from taking control of Yolks soldiers (during which time the game devolves into a simple first-person shooter), there are also several puzzles in which the player takes control of inanimate articles in order to com­plete objectives. Thankfully, there is the ghost of a little girl who helps guide the player through the tougher situations, though there is still a fair amount of wandering aimlessly con­fused. 
If all this sounds kind of creepy and strange, it is. It really is. Few games are as downright weird as "Geist." 

Hearing the disembodied voice of the little girl coo "Raimi" in her sing­song voice is enough to cause more than just a few shudders. Yet, the game manages to work the spirit aspect into the narrative and play more efficiently than might be expected. 
"Geist" breaks no new narrative or gameplay ground, though there are several nice references ("Aliens," "The Thing," "Poltergeist") through­out the game and it has its share of scary moments. The plot, which revolves around an unethical bin-cor­poration, is nothing new, but is com­pelling enough to keep players inter­ested. 
Gameplay is solid and the controls are standard, but it is the game'·s ghostly twist that keeps it afloat. The ability to leave the character being controlled and explore as a spirit is interesting, and the developers put enough use of the device into the game that it works well, for the most part. 
The graphics and sound are quite good. The spirit aspect allows for some flashy transparency and slow­down effects. These effects seem an 
integral and logical part of gameplay rather than just merely for showcasing special effects. 
There is also a multi­player mode, which is pretty similar to most multi-player modes in games in the first per­son shooter genre. All of them incorporate the spirit entity device, 


which is good since the first-person shooter aspect is really nothing spe­cial. 
There are better games and better first-person shooters out there, but "Geist" has enough innovativeness to make it stand out from the crowd. Though the single-player mode runs a little short in length, the multi­player mode is good, and then game itself is fun and suitably creepy. For those looking for a slightly more adult-oriented, Mature-rated Gamecube title, "Geist" fills the first­person niche adequately. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 

'X-Men Legends II' mutant mayhem: 
ful that the world's governments can do nothing to stop him. Even the mighty X­Men find themselves short trying to meas­ure up, forcing them to team up with the Brotherhood of Evil Mutants against their mutual enemy. 
This creates an even more diverse cast than that of the first game, as four Brotherhood mutants are now playable in addition to the X-Men. Joining the roster from the first game are Magneto, Toad, Scarlet Witch and the awesome Juggernaut. With their inclusion, the ini­tially playable characters round out at 15. 
However, some characters that were in the flrst didn't make the jump to the sec­ond. Jubilee, Beast, Emma Frost and Psylocke were dropped, as well as X-Men newcomer Magma. This was done due to fan response, as those were the less popu­lar characters from the first installment. 
Many other changes were made in response to fans' comments. The environ­ments are even more interactive than before, an impressive feat for those who played the original. There are also more costumes for the playable characters, giv­ing the player the option to play as the favorite version of their favorite mutant. 
The largest, greatest 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Assistant Scene Editor 

Quality games have long, expensive pro­duction cycles. It is not uncommon for a game's development to span many years, and even then the time spent is no guar­antee as to the quality of the game. 
But there is a !lip side to that coin ­rushed games are almost always lacking in quality. Games that take less than a year to create are generally found lacking, the shortened time frame an obvious fac­tor. 
"X-Men Legends II: Rise of the Apocalypse" is unique in this regard. Hitting the markets barely a year after the original was released, "X-Men Legends II" is a well-crafted, fun game to play. It avoids most of the pitfalls that are associ­ated with rushed games, and is a solid product using the Marvel license. 
Fans of the comic series will know what to expect from the game due to the title. For the non-comic fan, there is still plenty to draw the gamer in. An ancient, evil mutant known as Apocalypse is threaten­ing to conquer the world. He is so power-gameplay impacting addi­tion is the option of online playability. PlayStation 2 and X-Box owners can now take their game online. This is a key game­play innovation, as playing with real people is more fun than playing with· the artificial intelligence. 

All is not well in the X­Men's latest adventure, however. Not every graphical bug was worked out from the final product, as some graphics fail to appear at the script­ed moment. This can vex the player, as the portal to his next destination may not appear on the screen. The bugs that do exist are minor, however, having none that drastically hurt the gameplay. 


Another setback to enjoying the game is also its greatest strength, namely the ros­ter. The 15 initially playable characters are later joined by three unlockable ones, giving the roster a final tally of 18 playable characters. However, there are so many mutants in the game and in the Marvel universe that 18 still feels like a miniscule number. Having only four char­acters playable from the Brotherhood, compared to the 11 from the X-Men, is particularly disappointing. 
Overall, though, the game is a blast. The characters are more balanced than the original, and the gameplay has been more streamlined. For your mutant flx, look no further. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfat mbemende@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Tuesday, September 27, 2005 
page 13 
VIDEO GAME REVIEWS 
Retro appeal found in 1 Shaolin Monks' 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Assistant Sn·tw Fditor 
hll' ganwrs, fighting ganws often build mythologins around t.lwir favoritn ~~harac­t.-rs. If askPd, a ganwr I'Ould probably tnll you about his favoritn rharador. such as his or lwr history and lighting styln. 
But most of that knowlt~dgn stnms from writ.t.-n tnxts on t.lw ganw's official Wnb sitn. or tlw a«~l~ompanying information hook that «~onws with t.lw gamo. Storytelling dPtails in tlw actual lighting gamns tn111l to run on tlw light siclo, a trait that "Mortal Kombat: Shaolin Monks" attmnpts to addmss. 
l'lac.-d bntwPnn and during tho nvonts of "Mortal Kombat" I and II. "Shaolin Monks" attnmpts t.o round out. tho history of most of tlw combatants in "Mortal Kombat" his­tory. Almost all of tho tight1ws arn prnsent in sonw shapn or li~rm, and play contribut­ing rolns in tlw story. 
Tlw main story rnvolvns around Liu Kang and Kung Lao. fan favoritns of thn masher in every sense of tho word, "Shaolin Monks" 
Mortal 
is a nostalgic treat for any gamer who has been play­
Kombat: 
ing since t.hn days of tho Nintendo Entertainment 

Shaolin Monks 
System, or the days video arcades flourished. 

Tho player is given three basie attacks: a fast attack, an attack that launches enemies into the air and a 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Brilliant. ynt nssontially flawnd. 

That trait. has lwlonged to many talent­Pd pnopln and ox1~nptional things through­out history. Composers, artists, musicians have all fallnn undnr that eursn-ol' hning giftnd whiln nxhibiting some fatal !law or !laws that. hindnrs t.lwm. 
"Marvt•l Nnnwsis: IUso of the lmpnrl'nrts" falls into this catngory as well. Anotlwr Marwl lknnsnd product in what is hnroming a sna of such morchandiso, "Marvnl Nnmnsis" stands apart from tho rnst dun Lo its nature as an arena-based lighting ganw. Tho last Marvel l'ighter mod1dnd itsdf allnr morn traditional light­ing gamns, such as "Tnkknn" or "Mortal Kombat," so this nnw gamn is truly uniqun in that rngard. 
).'or thosn who arn wondering what arnna-basnd lighting nntails, tho gnnro is murh fastnr-pacnd than the typical light­ing gamn. J.'ightnrs movn l'rnnly through arnnas. picking up and throwing objnds without abandon. Instead of mmnorizing button combinations. playnrs focus mort~ on tlw ovorall stratnhry of the playing liold. Tlw playing liold is parti1~ularly important in a ganw liko "Marvel Nnnwsis," where half the playing linld is covernd in oxplo­"Mortal Kombat" series. Liu Kang was the vietor of the first "Mortal Kombat," and now linds himself in charge of pursuing Shang Tsung into Outworld. Kung Lao t'ol­lows as he attempts to rnturn honor to his family name, and helps Liu Kang in his qunst. 
Fans of the series will find plenty ol' unlockable c.haractnrs and hidden battles to kenp their intnrest. llidden tnmts for fans have benn a stapln of the snries, and "Shaolin Monks" is no dill'ernnt. 
Players nnw to thn snries might lind less to piquo their intorost as they play through thn gamn. Sinen many of thn hidden trnats and encountnrs worn croatnd for players who havn been with tho series sincn the original. newcomers might feel themselvns lost, as if they stnppnd into tho middle ol' a movie. 
Tho trnats and secrets should not be the main draw for tho gamn, however, as they aro not. The game itself is a solid action advonturn of a typn that has not been rnloasml for many years. This game hear­knns back to tlw days of "Final Fight" and "Tonnage Mutant Ninja Turtles." A strategic button 


pow1~rful attack that sends opponents fly­ing. Each of these can be linknd nll'ortlnss­ly, qssentially eliminating the nnod to memorize complex button c:ombinations. That donsn't mean that button eombina­tions have been eliminated, as they still exist. "Shaolin Monks" is simply geared morn towards the casual gamer. 
In addition to the combatants, the levels themselves are a joy to play. Taking a cue from tho previous "Mortal Kombat" games, the levels are highly interactive with background fataliti1~s and int1wactions bning commonplace. If there is something in thn environment that looks deadly, it probably is. Exploring the .environment 
isn't required to pass through t.lw gam<'. but. playnrs that bronze through tlw game will lind tlwmsnlvns only 50 pnrcPnt ,·.om­pinto or t.lw full nxpnrimwl' on saw ganw sernon. 
"Mortal Kombat: Shaolin Monks" proba­bly isn't for nvnryone. Sonw will lind it repetitive and otlwrs might lind it too ran­dom and confusing. For fans of t.lw series, hownvor, and !'or those who ynarn for tlw older. simplnr days of vidno ganws. this game is porl'net. Chock it out for a bloody good time. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

'Marvel Nemesis' fails at consistency 
and super herons are smashed through walls
Marvel 
become eommon fare. There arn plnnty of
Nemesis: 

Marvel characters to play as, with a hero that would 
Rise of the Imperfects suit almost any fan. Many of them are characters ' ) •.. ) that one would not typical­ly expect to see as
:JjiJlifJ 
playable in a game too, such as The Thing, Venom sivn objects. 
Coincidentally, like "X-Men Legends II" there are 18 playable characters. Unlike "Legends," most of the characters are locked in tho beginning. Typically, this would be considered a positive, as giving the player plenty of unlockable content prolongs the lil'e or the game. 
To unlock these characters, the player has to go through the story mode of the game. This is whore the major flaws in the game reside. The story mode has moments of sheer adrenaline, but then balances those segments out with parts that are practically guarantend to break the player's eontrollnr. Any game that forces you to ropeatedly try a segment, especially when it's not the focus of the game. has somo dilliculty issues. 
Dilliculty is a vital component of games. Without it, thorn would be no truly memo­rable moments within games, and there would bo no incentive to beeom·e compe­tent at a game. But the story mode is not tho main eomponont of "Marvel Nemesis," and forcing players to painfully work thnir way through it is a disservice to thn play­or. 
It is the game's true focus where it shines, however, and that is the one-on­one based arena combat. Since tho arenas are typically large, and just as interactive as "X-Men Legends," epic battles where 
explosions are rampant 


and Electra. While popular in their own right, they don't have the star status as some other members of the Marvel uni­verse. That is not to say that the game does not have its share of big names, as Spiderman, Wolverine and Magnnto are present as well. 
In addition to the decent Marvel rostnr are thn Imperfects, characters created by collaboration between Marvel and Elnctronic Arts. They are entirely new characters that come with their own back­ground stories, and look impressive within the gamn. Due to thnir llndgling status, however, they will probably provn less popular than tlw lieonsnd charactnrs. 
Marvel Nnmnsis is a mixed bag. llalf' a blast, half a ehore, it is a hard ganw to reeomrnnnd. (;anwrs looking for a Marvel arona-basml lighter have their answer. but ganwrs looking for tlwir favorite Marvel charadnrs in a tmrifk gamn might be better ofT looking nlsnwhern. 
Contact Mark Bemcnderfer at mbemende@nd.cdu 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 27; 20V5 
CLUB SPORTS 
Sailo·rs take third at Fordham meet 
Water polo comes up short against Grand Valley St. in regional 
Special to The Observer 
This past weekend the Notre Dame sailing team traveled to New York City to race in the Jesuit Intersectional hosted by Fordham. Seven teams from three districts competed in the regatta as Notre Dame fmished a strong third against a tough fleet. 
Saturday's conditions started with gusts up to 21 knots, but slowly died as the day went on. Despite the demanding weather, sophomore skipper Tim Roy and junior Kerry Kilbourn consistent­ly finished near the top of the "A" fleet. 
Sophomore Chris May and jun­ior Amy Becker started the day off in the "B" division but moved up to the "A" division on Sunday as the breeze built to a steady 12 knots. Sophomore John Dailey and his crew, senior Kathryn Hoodecheck, had an impressive performance with several firsts in their division. 
Many races came down to close finishes as Notre Dame bat­tled with Fordham and Georgetown all weekend. Georgetown, ranked No. 7 nationally, won the regatta while Fordham fmished second ahead of the Irish. Teams from Loyola­Maryland, Holy Cross, John Carroll and a second team from Fordham rounded out the com­petition. 
Men's water polo 
Notre Dame was again unable to overcome its nemesis Grand Valley State at this weekend's CWPA Great Lakes RegionaL The two teams rolled through all other competition at Toledo, set­ting up the expected showdown. 
In the feature contest, the No. 18 Irish challenged defending champion and No. 3 Grand Valley State. The first half lived up to its billing, ending in a 7-7 tie. However, the Irish were stung with the loss of three of their strongest players -Jay Nunez, Greg Sczewczyk and Matt McNicholas -with controversial game penalties. 
Scott Tagwerker opened the game in goal for the Irish with five block saves as Notre Dame weathered an early onslaught. Despite losing their three stars, the Irish were competitive for most of the second half behind the play and leadership of Mike Silhasek, Colin Dunn and Zhanwei Khaw. 
The Irish had no difficulty defeating Albion, 19-1, as Dan Quandt, Mike McKenna, Josh Raycraft and Michael Mashura led the squad in scoring. In their second game against the host Rockets, the Irish triumphed 16­3 behind the scoring of Joel Thielen, Ryan Downey and Brandon Frost. Ball State proved to be no more challenging, as the Irish romped to a 17-4 decision with George Heidkamp, Colin Dunn and Devin Fee playing strong. 
The clubs will square off at least one more time at the sec­ond regional at Rolfs Aquatics Center Oct. 29-30. 
Ultimate 
Some of the top contenders in the Midwest showed up to the seventh-annual Hucktoberfest ultimate tournament this week­end in Whitewater, Wise. 
For the first time this early in the season, the men's squad was able to field two teams, both con­sisting of seasoned veterans such as Steve Kurtz and Barrs Lang and a slew of fiery underclass­men including Daniel Reimer, Eric Shappell and Matt Ward. 
Notre Dame "Y" had a solid 
start to the season. Led by sen­
iors Vasili Karas, Bob Palchow 
and Tristan Butterfield, it went 3­
3 on the weekend. 
Sophomores Eric Blevins and 
Mike Florak played outstanding 
man defense and stepped up 
their roles as future leaders of 
the team. 
New additions to the roster 
Ryan Gorman, Thomas Rivas and 
Sean Gaffney played with poise 
and tenacity throughout the 
weekend. 
The women's squad also com­
peted. The team had a strong .!}hawing, boasting one of its largest rosters for the first fall tournament. The young team, with 12 rookies, played well dur­ing pool play on Saturday and Sunday despite rainy weather 
conditions. 
After dropping the first two 
games on Saturday to Wheaton 
and Winona St, 13-5 and 13-8 
respectively, the team made a 
strong showing in the third 
match by beating St. Olaf, 13-4. 
MLB-AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Yanks, Sox head for photo finish 
New York walks over Orioles to move half­game ahead of Boston 
Associated Press 

BALTIMORE -All thoughts about Boston can wait. For now, the New York Yankees are focused solely on beating the Baltimore Orioles. 
They're doing a pretty good job of it, too. 
After enduring two rain delays totaling nearly 2 hours, the Yankees regained sole pos­session of first place in the AL East with an 11-3 rout of the Orioles on Monday night. 
The victory moved the Yankees a half-game ahead of the Red Sox, whose home game against Toronto was rained out. 
''I'm not really worried about Boston right now," Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter said. "This is a big series. We've got to play well against Baltimore." 
New York has six games remaining -three against the stumbling Orioles, who have lost a season-high nine straight, and three in Boston to finish the season. 
If the Orioles keep playing as they have lately, the Yankees can expect to bring some momentum into Fenway Park this weekend. 
New York has won seven straight against Baltimore, including five over an eight­day span. 
"We control our destiny. If we win all our games, we win. That's the only way you can approach this," Yankees man­ager Joe Torre said. 
"We can't be looking for help from anybody else. Sure, if we get it, we appreciate it, but we can't go in expecting it." 
Boston must play a day-night doubleheader on Tuesday, forcing the Red Sox to shuffle their pitching rotation in the middle of a frenzied pennant race. 
Tigers 4, White Sox 3 

Curtis Granderson's friends back home on the South Side of Chicago asked him to take it easy on their beloved White Sox. 
Detroit's rookie center fielder hopes they are still his bud­dies. 
Granderson hit a leadoff homer in the bottom of the ninth inning to lift the Tigers over the White Sox Monday night. 

Chicago's lead in the AL Central dropped to two games over idle Cleveland and its magic number remained at five to clinch the division. 
"I don't know what will hap­pen when I get home," joked Granderson, who was born in Blue Island, Ill. 
The White Sox had a 15­game lead on Aug. 1. 
If they fail to finish in first it would be one of the biggest collapses in baseball history. 
Angels 4, Athletics 3 
Steve Finley has failed his fair share this season, so pro­ducing big hits that mean so much in September is all the more sweet. 
He never stopped trusting his swing, and now his Los Angeles Angels are in perfect position to wrap up the AL West before the final weekend this year. 
Finley hit a two-run homer, John Lackey pitched six strong innings, and the Angels moved within one victory of clinching their second straight division title with a win over the Oakland Athletics Monday night. 
"This time of the year, you want to contribute when you get your opportunities," said Finley, who batted .143 in Aug. 
"God knows I've had plenty of opportunities this year when I haven't come through, so hopefully the odds are in my 
. favor now." The Angels opened a five­game lead and lowered their magic number to two. They will send 10-game win­ner Ervip Santana to the mound against lefty Joe Kennedy to try to finish off the A's on Tuesday night. "The only magic number that matters is when it's zero," Angels manager Mike Sciascia said. "We've got one more game we've got to get to get it done. Every game's going to be tough." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall: Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. · 
CLASSIFIEDS 
ALL STUDENTS Part Time Work Riverfront Condominiums in Niles. HOMES FOR RENT. KRAMER WANTED:ND-USC football tix. TOP $12.25 base/appt. Flexible sched· Spectacular St. Joe River views. PROPERTIES HAS HOMES AVAIL· $$$ PAID. CALL 574·232-2378 A.M. 
LOST AND fOUND ules around classes, Gain exp. in Condo conversion with new ABLE RANGING FROM 3 BDRMS TICKETS 574-288-2726 P.M. customer sales & service, kitchens,baths,sliders and decks. UP TO 10 BDRMS. CLOSE TO ND. FOUND: Mans NO class ring at Conditions apply, all ages 17 & Only 20 minutes to Notre Dame. FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. Castlepoint Apts. MSU weekend. older, Call Today 574-273·3835. One bedroom units $99,900. Two KRAMER FOR SHOWINGS-TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. PERSONALS Call Judy at 272·8110 to identify & bedroom unit $149,900. Call OFFICE 234·2436; CELL 315·5032. claim. INTERNET WORK! $8.75-Michael Kuhn of Keller Williams FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do $38.50/Hr. Flexible schedule. Realty toll-free at 866·840-6511. Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for ND 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE not go it alone. If you or someone PT/FT/Summer. Use any computer. game weekends. 7732182203 FOR$$: www.victorytickets.com you love needs confidential support 
WANTED $25 Bonus! or assistance, Studentsurveysite.com/NotreDame FoR RENT Free room/board,male,chores/tasks BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT· please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at Local family aixcertified@ hotmail.com BALL TIX. 1·7819. needs part-time caregiver for five· GREI\T HOUSES CHECK MY PRICES. For more information, see our bi-month-old boy. GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart· 273-3911. weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.
FoR SALE 
Flex weekday schedule available. andersonNDrentals.com ments available for 06-07 school Must love children 1 bdrm condo near ND. year. Call today 235-7234. Need 4 tix to any football game. Call Hollywood would totally & have experience caring for Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential Jack 574-67 4·6593. buy our sitcom. infants. All appliances. (Jamison) condo BLUE & GOLD HOMES. References req. $69,000. 11/21/05. 05/06. Best rates for weekend, monthly & WANTED: Party Countdown: 12 days Transportation necessary. Call Mary Anne Benedict yearly rentals. 4 GAs for USC game. Call203-261­Call (574)271·0747. Call Kim Kollar 574-280-8160. 607.723·7363. 574·250-7653. 8717 Jim. Bob Morton for Heisman 
. '·'. 
AROUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, September 27, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVICES page 15 
NFL 
AFC East 

l.mtlll  rocord  pt~rc .  PF  PA  
New England Miami Buffalo N.Y. Jets  2-1 2·1 1·2 1·2  .667 .667 .333 .333  70 68 41 44  67 51 50 60  
AFC North  
I.!' am Cincinnati Pittsburgh Cleveland Baltimore  rncord 3-0 2·1 1·2 0·2  pore. 1.000 .667 .333 .ODD  PF 88 81 45 17  PA 28 37 64 49  
AFC South  
1.1'11111 Indianapolis Jacksonville Tennessee Houston  J'ncord 3-0 2-1 1-2 0·2  pm-c. 1.000 .667 .333 .333  PF 47 55 59 14  PA 16 44 75 49  
AFC West  
t<•am  n•rord  pPrt~.  I'F  PA  
Kansas City Denver San Diego Oakland  2·1 2·1 1·2 0·3  1.000 .500 .333 .000  53 60 86 57  54 54 71 76  
NFC East  
I.Pam Washington Dallas N.Y. Giants Philadelphia  J'('('ord 2·0 2·1 2-1 2·1  pt'I'C. 1.000 .667 .667 .667  I'F 23 75 92 75  PA 20 69 74 37  
NFC North  
l~Hllll Detroit Chicago Minnesota Green Bay  rneord 1-1 1-2 1-2 0·3  pnre. .500 .333 .333 .000  PF 23 52 54 43  PA 41 39 77 60  
NFC South  
tmnn Tampa Bay Atlanta Carolina New Orleans  record 3-0 2·1 1·2 1·2  perc. 1.000 .667 .333 .333  PF 60 56 71 49  PA 32 47 67 80  
NFC West  
tram Seattle St. Louts San Francisco Arizona  rr.cord 2-1 2-1 1-2 0-3  perc. .667 .667 .333 .000  J>F 72 73 62 43  PA 56 67 101 96  

M IAA Division Ill Women's Soccer 
l\~am Ml/\.1\ ovorall GF <~A Calvin 5-0-0 6-1-1 31 4 Hope 5-0-0 7·1·0 14 3 Olivet 3·3·0 3·5·0 13 17 SAINT MARY'S 3-2-0 4·4·0 11 11 Alma 2-4-0 3-4-1 6 10 Albion 2·2·0 2-4-0 11 13 Kalamazoo 2-3-0 3-4-1 9 17 Adrian 1-4-0 1·7·0 6 30 Tri-State 0-5-0 2-6-0 12 31 
around the dial 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Toledo at Fresno State 8 p.m., ESPN 2 
MLB 

White Sox at Tigers 6:05 p.m., Comcast 
POKER 2005 World Series of Poker 6 p.m., ESPN 2 
NCAA FOOTBALL 


Associated Press 
BATON HOUGE, La. ­Ten nossee ro fused to be part of LSLJ's feel-good story. 
Gerald Higgs Jr. pushed into the end zone from a yard out in overtime to givo the 1Oth-ranked Volunteers a 30-27 come­back win Monday night in the Tigers' long-awaited, hurricane-delayed homo opener. 
LSLJ transfer Hiek Clausen led tlw Volunteers (2-1. 1-1 Southeastern Conference) back from a 21-point delidt in the sec­ond half to tie it at 24 with 
2:02 lel't on a field goal. 

"Getting done what he got done, coming back here to win this football game at a plaee where he had been, I don't know if there is a better story in the world than what this guy has done," Tennessee coach Phillip Fulmer said. 
The Tigers had first erack in overtime, but managed only a 31-yard field goal by Colt David. 
Higgs accounted for all the Vols' yards in overtimt~ with a H)-yard reception and four runs. 
IIn powered through the linn and into the end zone to send the hurricane-weary Louisianans honw with a bittnr loss. 
Hurricane Katrina forced the No. 4 Tigers to post­pone their first horne game, and move tlwir sec­ond to Arizona State, w'here LSU earnn away with a dramatic win. 
Then Hurricane Hita forced another dnlay and set up the first Monday nighter in Tiger Stadium. 
The crowd was a bit smaller than usual, but they were loud as ever and the Tigers (1-1, 0-1) <~er­tainly looked like a team eager to play when tlwy jumped out to a 21-0 lnad in the first half. 
"Thoro was no panic," Fulmnr said. "Wn challnnged each 
other." 
C I au s e n ca 111 n o IT t h n bench to rally Tennessen with a touchdown pass and a 1-yard TD sneak that rnado it 24-14 with 
9:35 lel't. 
lie linishod 21-l'or-32 for 196 yards and appeared to settle the Vols' quartt~r­back controversy. 
Jonathan llef1wy intPr­cnpted .laMan:us HussPII and rPturned it 2h yards to the LSLJ 2 on the nPxt pos­session. Wlwn Higgs sr.orl'd from 2 yards out with about 7 1/2 minutl's to play. tlw crowd Wl'nt sill'nt. 
Tlw IPad was down to 
thrt~P. 
IN BRIEF 
Pennington tears rotator cuff, ouf for season 
Nl\W YOHK-.lets quarterback Chad Pennington will miss the rest of tho sPason becausn of a torn right rotator cuff, The Assoeiatnd Pross lnarned Monday night. 
l'ennington's injury was t:onlirmed by a person with knowledge of his condition, but who declined to be identified because the team had not rnadn an ol'lleial announemnent. 
An MHI exam shownd Pennington torn his rotator cul'l' in Sunday's 26­20 ovcrtinw loss to .laeksonville. 
The NFL Nntwork originally rnport­ed the injury. the sceond time Pmmington has had this tnar in less than a year. 
Pennington was expected to visit notod orthopodist Dr. James Andrews in Alabama on Tuesday. 
Backup .lay Fimller also damaged his shoulder Sunday and will be side­lined, leaving third-stringer Brooks Bollinger to play quarterback against Baltimore this weekend. 

Last season, Pennington missed three games with the same injury and had offseason surgPry to rnpair it. Rollins continues to downplay hit streak 
PIIILADELPIIIA-Everyonn is talking about Jimmy Hollins' :~ !­game hitting streak, excnpt thn All­Star shortstop himself. 
Hollins downplaynd thn streak whnn Philadelphia went 6-3 on its last road trip and moved within onn game of the llouston Astros l'or thn NL wild-card lead, insisting Iw didn't 
allow himself to  think too  mueh  
about it.  
With  the  Phillins  back  homn  

Monday to open a three-game snrins with the New York Mots, the moody Hollins refused to speak to thn print mndia, much as he has most of thn past month. 
Whether he wants to say anything about it or not doesn't matter to the Phillins, who arn only glad to gPI. tlw production tlwy nxpndnd wlwn t.Iwy nwvnd him to tlw top of the ord<'r. Cutcliffe to Arkansas fans, keep the faith 
LITTLI\ HOCK h1rnwr Mississippi 1~oach David CutcliiTn has sonw advien for Arkansas fans disil­lusionnd by tlwir tnam's 1-:~ start. 
"Be supportivn during tlw fact. Playnrs nned support, r.oarlws ntwd things positive." CutrliiTe said at tlw Littln Hoek Touchdown Club. ";\f'tnr tlw snason's ovnr with. ptwpln ought to express tlwir opinions -very publi1: situation that w1~ havn. But just rnmain supportive, bneausr~ I think it'll pay ofT for you whnn you do that." 
Cutdil'fe talknd for about 45 min­utns at Monday's lunclwon, nntnr­taining tlw crowd with storins about his coaching carnnr. CutdifTn wnnt 44-29 in six snasons at Oln Miss af'tnr hn was an assistant at Tm11wss1H~ for 17 years. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 21, 2005 
FooTBALL NoTEBOOK 

Big plays not just a s111all proble111 for Irish against UW 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 

After Chinedum Ndukwe recovered a fumble on the Notre Dame 1-yard line to halt Washington's game-opening drive, the Irish semned to be in control of the eon test. 
But Irish head eoach Charlie Weis was not pleased with his defense's tendency to surrender big plays Saturday against the Huskies. The Irish gave up 449 yards of total offense with 419 coming on only 18 plays. 
Weis was worried this could hurt the Irish when in a game closer than the 36-17 Notre Dame win Saturday. 
"We were giving up way too many big plays," Weis said at his Sunday press conference. "That's obviously an area of concern." 
He also had issues with the ability of Washington to sustain long drives. The Huskies had five drives of more than 70 yards Washington game. 


"I think both the way [the medial handled it and the play­ers handled it kept it from-being more of a distraction than it could have been," Weis said. 
+Anastasio honored 

With an effort Saturday that included a blocked punt and two tackles, Weis named Chase Anastasio special teams captain for this week. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at 
mgilloon@nd.edu 


Pirarnides, Palacios y Playas 
Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
VVednesday,Sept. 28,2005 5:00PM 
202 DeBartolo 

Physics taught in Puebla in the fall semester for Pre­Professional Students; pre-medical internships available Engineering courses available in Monterrey 
APPLICATION DEADLINE: 

Nov. 15, 2005 for Fall '06, Sp'06 and AY 2006-2007 additional deadline: May 1, 2006 for Spring 2007 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/tvintlstud/ 

Sizzl€ inb.~. 
Belliniy Tuesdays 
·----'<, 

-1 ~ 
Saturday. 
"They didn't always come up with points," Weis said. "But when you change field position that drastically ... that's not a good thing." 
The other main concern of Weis' dealt with penalties. All three Washington scoring drives were aided by Notre Dame infractions. 
+Pleased it's over 
With so much attention paid to the matchup between Washington coach Tyrone Willingham and Notre Dame, where he coached for three years prior to his firing last November, Weis was relieved the game was over. 
"We got through that," Weis said. "We can go on our way. They can go on their way." 
He thanked the media and his players at the beginning of his Sunday press conference for their participation and behavior in the week leading up to the 
Siz~lene (Sizzlelini®)­
On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! 
A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served vyith a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B;)-Iefl.e (Bellini) ­A frosty raspberry; green apple or peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­
Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini® Bellini Tuesdays! 
~-~i. ,,.~ 1':. 
'""';·-.~~ ~ 

ALlAN KITCHEN 
~· 
. 

/ ~" Unmistakably Italian \Unbelievably Good 
Write Sports.  Thinking abou-t volun-teering af-ter you gradua-te?  
H  
Call Mike at 1-4543.  Consider Holy Cross .Associa "t"es~ Find ouT vvhy 15 NoTre Dame Seniors chose Holy Cross AssociaTes lasT year Corne visiT us aT -t-he NoTre Dame PosT­GraduaTe Service Fair, -t-ornorro\N from 5-Bprn a-t­-t-he S-t-epan Cen-t-erI  

'li1esday, September 27, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Gold 
continued from page 24 
X-h in favor of' tho Whirlwinds. Follnwr began tiH~ ganw's scor­ing with a touchdown run in tho o1wning minutes for a quick fl-O Pyro load, whilo Wolsh Family r«H~nivnr Mogan Bushnlle seornd two snrios latnr on a 1~atch-and-run from Sands. 
Buslwlh~ also caught the fol­lowing two point convnrsion that made it X-(J in favor of' the Whirlwinds.The first half', playnd in a steady rain, saw tlw passing game for both squads af'f'1H~tnd as dropped passes and shaky throws wore snm1 on both sides. By the sec­ond half', with tlw rain slowing to a light drizzle, oiTensives or both t1~ams began soning more suecnss. 
It wasn't enough sueeess, however. for Pasquerilla East ~~a ptai n Megan Wysok i, who was adamant about needing the of'f'nnse to perform bettor. 
"We need to put sonw points on the hoard," Wysoki said. 
Sands. the Whirlwinds' cap­tain. was satisfied with the hard-fought victory. She also spoke admirably about the play of the Pyro def'nnse saying 
"They were extremely fast 

Blue 
continued from page 24 
capitalizNI imnwdiatnly with Winland's 24 yard strike to 
Bkhardville. 
!\ few possnssions later, Sorin was forced to punt to Zah m's Ossei-Anto. 
Ossni-Anto, who also finished wilh ;{g yards rushing, fielded tho punt around his own 40, found a crnase, and streaked down tlw Bats' sidnlinn for an apparent touchdown. The rnturn was called back, how­ever, hncause of a dipping pnnalty, and Zahm was forcnd to take ovnr at the Otter 41. 
But tlw pnnalty did not phase the Bats of'f'nnsn, as Winland promptly drove his team down­field and hit Hichardville once again for tlw scom, this time from I !i yards out. The touch­down closed out a 12 point SIH~ond quarter for Zahm, and essentially snaled the vktory. 
Tlw second half' was sloppy, with nunwrous fum bind snaps. and irH~ompletn passes. 
Both dnf'nnsns lwld tough as tlw rain began to pick up. 
"l•:very team has to play through it." said Sorin 1~aptain l'nto l.aviorini, r·ef'erring to his 
out on the liPid, espncially thnir sive team was able to put defensivn linn," Sands said. points up in tho first half. "They took away the running "It was a dnl'ensive battle," game as well as most of our Brown said. oiTensn in the first half. Thny Both teams realized that the cll~f'initnly forced us to makn slick conditions would have a adjustmnnts at negative impact hall'time." on their games.
"/Welsh/ definitely 

Sands also The rain made it
forced us to make

crnditnd hnr nearly impossi­team mall~s. nspe­adjustments at ble for the quar­cially the terbacks to com­
halftime. " 

rnceivers. plete decent "Bushelle was passes to their 
Melissa Sands

our oiTensn in the receivers. f'i r s t h a I f, and Pasquerilla East captain Helying on Cargola, even their running though she's just a freshman, games, thn Shamrocks and made a groat play lon hnr Phoxes both threatened to touchdown catch 1." Sands said. score in thn first half'. but nei­
ther team was able to come McGlinn 6, Pangborn 0 through. 
The Shamrocks brought their The second half started out best game despite the pouring much like the first. Rain fell rain and slick field conditions even heavier and both teams Sunday and shut out Pangborn. continued to rely on their run­
With about 10 minutes ning gamns. rema1n1ng in the game, Both defensive teams looked McGlinn's offense got a chance strong, but McGlinn's looked to shine. Senior quarterback especially so as both Jess Bneky Brown lofted a 40-yard Fedor and Sally Head snagged pass to freshman Jen Fedyna interceptions. From that point in the end zone. The on, the game was a defensive Shamrocks failed to convert on struggle. thn extra point, but the touch­Pangborn's offense continu­down was good enough for the ally tried to hrnak through the win. McGlinn defense, but was 
The game started off mueh denied. like the weather, messy and McGlinn had just as much unpredictable. Neither ofTen-trouble on its offensive end. 
t1~am's strug­"We just shot ourselves eut short. Many gIe s w i t h t lw in the foot too many members of the wet football. team flew to
times . ... We just didn't 
"We bnat our­Pennsylvania
get it done this time 
selves today. on Friday to Bad snaps. around." attend the Blown plays. funeral servic­"Wn just shot es. They dedi­
Pete Laviorinl 
ou rsnlvns in cated their 6-0 
Sorin captain
the foot too win over the 
Chris Bailey on the Otters' lirst possession. 
Late in the third quarter, Mora lnd Sorin into Zahm ter­ritory, threatening to cut the lead in half. But the Bats' defense held solid, forcing Mora into incompletions and eventually a turnover on downs. 
The only other Sorin threat came on their first drive of' the game following Mora's 56-yard completion to Bailey. With Sorin looking to strike l'irst, Zahm's defense stiffened and forced a 30-yard field goal attmnpt, which was blocked. 
This was a microcosm of the gamn, as Sorin senmed to squandnr any opportunity that it had. Yet despite the disap­pointing outcome, Laviorini rnmainnd positive. 
"I think that we have the ability to beat Zahm any other day, hut we just didn't get it done this time around," he said. 
Fisher 6, Knott 0 
Tho men of Fisher llall had much more on their minds this wef~k than Sunday's interhall game against Knott. 
Earlier this week the life of' 23-year-old Tim Solie, a for­mer Notre Dame student and Fisher resident. was tragically 
many limns." 
Although Sorin's oiTense struggled, tlw Bats defnnse has to hn ernditnd for thnir stellar play. 
"Our run defnnse was groat," Z a h m ~~apt a i n I'at Go u r In y said. "The defnnsive line picked it up and put. some prnssun~ on tlwir quarterback. But. a lot of' it had to do with tight COVPrago." 
Thn Bats had piPnty of' pms­surP on Mora all day. holding him to (J-of'-13 passing for S4 yards, tlw hulk of' which camn on a !ifl-yard hom h to l'IH~PivPr 
Juggerknotts to tho memory of Solie. 
The weather played a defi­nitn role in this defensive bat­tle. A cold, rainy day slowed the passing attacks of' both teams. Both quarterbacks, Fisher's Pat Gotabeski and Knott's Matt Whittington, were held to throe complnl.ions apinee. Whit.tington was inter­ceptnd by Tom llessert in the fourth quartnr to seal the win for the Fishermen. 
·The game's only touchdown was scored on the lirst drive of the game when Kevin l{abil broke loose in the end zone and came down with a 19-yard score. The 1~xtra point attempt failed, but Fisher already had all the points it would need. The pass was the culmination of a 65-yard march down the field in which Gotabeski passed for 40 yards and Tom Sullivan ran for 20. However, Sullivan went down with an ankle injury at the end of the drive and was unable to play for the remainder of the game. 
Without Sullivan, Fisher turned to sophomore tailback Tom Buf'alino to carry the offense. The big back had 12 carries, nine of them coming in the second half'. 
"The plan was to split time with Sullivan because or his bad ankle, but I didn't expect to see this much action." Bufalino said. 
Despite his hard running, the Knott defense was able to hold Fisher in cheek as both teams were forced to punt six times in the second half'. 
Knott once again had a tough time on thn oiTensive side of thn ball, failing to score for the seeond straight week. A combi­nation of indement weather and poor field position kept the Juggerknotts from sniffing the goal line. Thrnn times in the sneond half the team was pinned insidn the 20-yard line to start its drive. With the passing game struggling, the team turned to running back Matt Segobiano. Other than big plays or 11 and 23 yards Segobiano was also bottled up by the inspired Fisher defense. 
It was elear from the first snap that Fisher was deter­mined to start off the season right and honor Solie with a win. However, in a postgame meeting the team was already looking forward to another tough game against Carroll next Sunday. Knott, which fell to 0-2 with the loss, has a week off to try to work the kinks out of its offense. 
Carroll 6, Siegfried 0 

In a rain-soaked alTair on Sunday afternoon, Carroll topped Singf'riod 6-0 for its first win of the season. It was­n't pretty but Carroll took advantagn of enough Siegfried 

Both teams' experienced defenses proved they were capable of holding the other's offense where they were. 
McGlinn has plenty of confi­dence as it heads into next week's game ag<tinst Welsh Family. 
Pangborn will have to revalu­ate its game as the Phoxos pre­pare for Farley. 
"We need to work roally hard in practice this wenk," Mooney 
mistakes to eke out a win. 
The contest saw seven turnovers, a blocked punt and a blocked extra point. 
Five of the turnovnrs were interceptions as thn sloppy conditions led to a slippery ball and sloppy play. 
But Carroll managed to punch one in the end zone ­no easy task in this game. 
An 18-yard touchdown pass from quarterbaek Kory Wilmot to Paul Tassinari eapped the game's lone seoring drive. After a scoreless first half' and several failed possessions to begin the third, the Vermin finally managed to eapitalize. 
Mike Johnson's interception was followed by two Carroll lirst downs. 
In the fourth quarter, Carroll was able to foree a turnover ­as Mike .Johnson picked ofT a Siegfried pass -and run much of tho remaining timn ofT the dock. Wilmot repeatedly gave the ball to running back Mark Bennett, who ran for said. 
Notes: 
+Sunday's game bntwnen Brenn-Phillips and Farlny was cancelled. It has been rnsdwd­ulnd for 10 p.m. Tuesday Oet. 4 at Stepan Fields. 
Contact Drew Fontana at dfontan@nd.edu and Dierdre Krasula at dkrasul@nd.edu 
several first downs. When Siegfried finally got the ball back, the Vnrmin defense made a strong stand. It refusnd to give up substantial yardage and forced a turnover ·on downs to guarantee a Carroll vie tory. 
"We dnfinitnly won this gamn in tho trenehns," Wilmot said. "We controlled the linn of scrimmagn on both sides of thn ball, which is very important on a day I ike today." 
Carroll is looking forward to nnxt weekend's game against rival Fisher. 
"We wouldn't mind sonw lwt­ter we a thor either," Wilmot said. 
Siegfried looks ahead to rwxt Sunday's showdown with Sorin. 
Contact Colin Reimer at creimer I @nd.edu, Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu and Fran Tolan at ftolan@nd.edu 
Take Kaplan. Score higher. 
LSAT GMAT GRE MCAT DAT. 
Classes are starting soon! 
GMAT starts 9/06 LSAT starts 9/10 GRE starts 9/12 MCAT starts 9/24 
Enroll today & save your seat! 
Higher test scores guaranteed or your money back" 


page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, September 27, 20tl5 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL-BLUE LEAGUE 
Walsh set to face off against Lyons 
By CHRIS HINE, JAY 
FITZPATRICK and TIM 
KAISER 
Sports Writers 
The Wild Women of Walsh are taking an unblemished record into a 7 p.m. Blue League contest with Lyons tonight, while the Lions are looking to get their sea­son baek on track at Riehle West Field. 
Thus far, Walsh has defeated Lewis, 13-7, and Badin, 20-0. The defending champions are led by Mary Sullivan at quarterback. Sullivan is the Michael Vick of the Walsh offense, using both her legs and arm with equal effect. 
On Sunday against Badin, Sullivan threw and ran for a touchdown. Walsh's offense also features Cigi Moore and Laurie Wasikowski at wideout. 
Lewis held Sullivan in check for the first half last week, but as the defense crept up to prevent her from running, Sullivan found Wasikowski over the top for big gains. Once the defense dropped back, Sullivan used her legs to drive Walsh down the field. 
Lyons opened the season in impressive fashion with a 20-0 win over Boward. Since then, however, Lyons c:an't quite find the right groove. It has lost consecu­tive games to Badin and Lewis. 
"We're working on the things we need to fix," co-captain Katie Mackin said. 
In the Lions' only win, receiver Jenny Delaney caught three touchdown passes from quarter­backs Kim Murphy and Lynn Truitt. 
But Delaney and the rest of the Lions' receiving corps will be up against a tough Walsh secondary led by Julie Campbell, who has three interceptions in two games, including one returned for a touchdown. Also featured in the Walsh secondary are Kristen Keve and Patty Rose. 
Walsh captain Mary Ellen Botta, who anchors the defensive line, is excited about her team's attitude. 
"We are looking to keep up the strong defense and force turnovers," Botta said. "[We] like to give our offense good starting field position and see what they can do." 
Badin vs. Cavanaugh 
Cavanaugh has not allowed a point in its first two games, and the Chaos are looking to contin­ue their streak in a 9 p.m. game with Badin (1-1) at Riehle fields tonight. 
Last week, the Chaos (2-0) won big over Howard, winning 24-0, with a strong running game and an adequate passing game. Cavanaugh demonstrated its offensive versatility against the Ducks, scoring twice through the air and twice with an option run­ning game. 
If Badin hopes to win, it will have to overpower a sturdy Chaos defense. In its last game, Cavanaugh defenders forced two interceptions and held Howard quarterbacks to 6-of-19 passing. 
Cavanaugh had a bye this weekend and used the time to prepare for specific situations, as the Chaos were 0-for-4 on extra points last week against the Ducks. 
"We know that a close game is going to come down to extra points, and we want to be able to succeed on them to win those games," Cavanaugh assistant coach Hunter Land said. 
Badin hopes to rebound this week after a 20-0 Joss to Walsh, but the Bullfrogs will have a dif­ficult game against Cavanaugh, who has not lost a regular sea­son game in over a year. 
Badin has shown promise early this season, including a two-touchdown performance by freshman quarterback Katie Rose Hackney and a shutout in week one. 
Despite the odds against Badin, the team is confident it can com­pete with a team like Cavanaugh. Part of the reason for the loss in the Walsh game was due to injuries and sickness on the part of key Bullfrogs players. 
"Our defense held strong while our offense had trouble complet­ing passes," Badin's Allison Lang said. 
Howard vs. Lewis 
The Howard Ducks and Lewis Chicks will meet tonight at 8 
p.m. at Stepan Fields in a matchup some are calling, "The Poultry Bowl." 
Howard enters the game still in the hunt for its first win after tough losses to Lyons and Cavanaugh. 
Sophomore Catherine Krug said her team has been practic­ing some new offensive strategy this week. 
"We're looking for the offense to make some plays and for the defense to keep playing tough," Krug said. 
Sophomore •offensive and defensive lineman Lauren Gulley echoed the need for improve­ment on ofl'ense. 
"The area to work on the most for us is offense," Gulley said. "Each player has to know their individual responsibilities and execute very well." 
Gulley felt Howard's younger players, including freshman receiver Liz Pike, would make a greater impact in this game. 
"We have a lot of freshman," Gulley said. "But now they kno.w what to expect: the pace of the games, the level of eompetition of women's interhall flag football." 
Lewis has the edge over Howard in record against com­mon opponents -they also lost to Cavanaugh but beat Lyons. 
Lewis also has lost to Walsh and is looking to bring its record to .500 with a victory. The Chicks will look to a strong senior class -including Kara Bailey, wide receiver Kati Kloon and captain and defender Julia Borke -to capture a win. 
Contact Chris Hine at chine@nd.edu, Jay Fitzpatrick at jfitzpa@nd.edu and Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Linetnan gives .Weis verbal commitment 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Notre Dame added a second offensive lineman to its recruiting class during the weekend as Eric Olsen became the 17th verbal com­mitment for the Irish this year. 
A 6-l'oot-5, 298-pound line­man from Poly Prep School in Brooklyn, New York, Olsen will play offensive guard for Notre Dame, according to Mike Frank of Irisheyes.com. 
"He's a good 
or six guys they offered," Frank said. "He was with the next group of guys that got offered. But he's hardly a sec­cmd-tier type of guy." 
Boston College, North Carolina, Miami, Maryland and Virginia were among the schools that also offered Olsen a scholarship, accord­ing to Irisheyes.com. 
"Growing up l pulled for Notre Dame and also Miami and Boston College," Olsen said. "When it came down to it those were all in my top l'ive. But Boston College was 
pro~ably sec­
pickup," Frank_ "[Notre Dame] was ond. 
said. "He comes Olsen made an
everything I was
from a good pro­unofficial visit to gram. He's a big looking for from campus this sum­kid who likes to the academic mer when he smack people attended the
standpoint, the
around a little Notre Dame foot­bit." coaches and the ball camp. Irish 
Most of the environment." coaches, players schools he and the campus looked at were itself made a
Eric Olsen 
similar, but good impression Notre Dame on the lineman
Irish recruit 
stood out for Olsen because of its tradition. 
"I was looking for the com­plete paekage," Olsen said. "I felt that it was everything I was looking for from the aca­demic standpoint, the coach­es and the environment. Plus, it had that mystique and tra­dition there. It was just awe­some." 
Frank said Olsen is in the "second wave" of offensive line recruits offered by the Irish coaching staff. 
"He's not one of the top live 
during his visit of "four or five days," he said. 
Offensive tackle Bartley Webb of Springdale, Ark. is the other line prospect to ver­bal to the Irish so far. lie received four stars out of a possible five from Scout.com. Olsen received three stars. 
Olsen reports a 350-pound bench press and a 520-pound squat along with a 5.2 second time in the 40-yard dash. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

Join Father lVbnk JYBlloy C.S.C. for a signing of his ne:v lx:ok, Monk's Notre Dame 

Thursday, September 29th, 2005 330 Coleman-Morse 7:00-7:45 pm 
Sponst.)rcd by: Cam11Us l\1inistry International Student Services: and Acthritics l\1uslim Student Assnciation (~raduutc Student l'nion 
(}"] 


This V\Dnderful collection of hurrorous, !X)ignant and revealing stories and ane:xbtes offers SfB=!ial insight into the university that Fr. .Milloy has servEd. so faithfully as long tirre University President and as resident of SJrin Cblle:Je. Monk' s Notre Dame has a story to tell atout nrerly every asp:ct of life at NJtre D:lrre. Fr. .Milloy intersperses fresh insight on traclitional canpus events, such as new students rroving into the resi­dence halls and the annual }:xx)kstore basketball tournament, with lesser known stories such as the mysterious reappearance of a statue of Father Edward Sorin at the helm of a rrotorboat on St. :Mary's Lake. Anyone 
Wednesday, September 28, 2005 from 4-6prn at the Eck Visitor's Center. Monk's Notre Dame is available for 

-!-~, ',. -r·,, 
r. ·'' 

' ' the Obser~er + $PO'RTS page 19 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL-BLUE LEAGUE 
Wild Won1en run over Bullfrogs as Chicks tan1e Lions 
By BECK! DORNER and JAMES FEGAN Sports Writers  interception against Lewis that secured their victory in last week's game, and she once again was a delimsive stalwart, return­ several players earning sacks and holding Walsh to no touchdoWns until about two minutes left in the game.  Chicks' coach Jay Murphy said. The wet weather led to sloppy play by both teams. Both quarter­backs struggled to grip the ball  Tim result was equally nweal­ing for Lyons. After pummeling lloward in its opener, the Lions have looked flat.  
ing an interception from Badin  Despite the loss, the Bullfrogs  and throw with any distance, and  The once-potent quartnrback  
The Wild Wormm ofWalsh were  quart1wbaek Katie Rose Hackney  are anxious to prove themselves  their receivers had just as much  combination of Kim Murphy and  
in top li1rm despite the rain and  for  the  second  in their upcoming  trouble catching their passes. The  Lynn Truitt threw four total inter­ 
water-logged conditions Sunday as they pullml oil' a 20-0 victory against tho Badin Bullfrogs.  touchdown of the evening. "You have to give  ''I'm very proud of the way we  match against Cavanaugh, a solid Blue League com­ first half' alone saw sevt~n turnovers between the two tnarns. The dill'erence in the game was  ceptions Sunday. After catching three touch­downs in the opener, rneniver  
In the waning monwnts of the gamn, Laurin Wasikowski ran fur lwr seeond touchdown to finish  erndit to the Walsh defense," Hackney said.  played on both sides ofthe ball.,  petitor coming ofT a big victory over lloward.  Elisa Valdez's ability to settle down, as she threw two touch­down passes and no interceptions  .lenni Dolanny didn't got any such opportunities, as the Lyons ollimse rarely entered Lewis ter­ 
the scoring.  Another returned  "We'll  have  to  in the second half.  ritory.  
Taking the fiold after thwarting  interception would  Jay Murphy  step it up for our  Hather  than  playing  from  "The execution just wasn't  
Badin's first possession, Walsh got oil' to a quick start with quarter­ have earned an additional touch­ Lewis coach  next game." Jlackm1y said.  behind as they did in their first two games, the Chicks took the  there today, but we look li>rward to seeing !Lewis! in the playolls,"  
back Mary Sullivan finding her  down for the Wild  The Wild Women  ball the length of the field on the  Lyons coach .John Harrington  
receiver li1r a 35-yard completion  Women had a holding penalty not  have nothing but confidence after  first possession of the game.  said.  
that gave the Wild Women  a  been called.  ·  such a strong performance.  Next  Lewis kept up the momentum  Lyons  q uarterbaeks  were  
prime opportunity to get on  the  Coming out of halftime, Badin  they play Lyons,  who  Badin  when Mia De La Hosa pieknd oil'  sacked live times; with.. two nach  
hoard early.  attempted various options to  recently defeated 12-0.  Lynn Truitt on the next posses­ coming  from  Chicks  ends  
On limrth down, Sullivan limnd  eombat Walsh's tight pass eovnr­ sion.  Alexandra  Persely and  Kate  
Wasikowski in the end zone for  age. Several reverses run by cap­ Lewis 28, Lyons 0  De La Hosa's interception lirnd  Erdle.  
tlw first touchdown of the evening  tain Meg Charlebois caught the  After scoring just seven points  up the Lewis defense, which pro­ Lyons was  hold to live yards  
tlwn convnrtt~d  the extra point to  Walsh  in their first two games, the Lewis  ceeded to frustrate Lyons and  rushing all game, as all of their  
give tlw Wild Women an early  defense oil' guard and resulted  offense exploded behind Elisa  force them to spend the rest of  attmnpl'i on rnverses and options  
load.  in  significant gains  for  the  Valdez's four touchdown passes  the first half cycling their two  were stilled.  
Thn momentum of that first  Bullfrogs, yet Badin could not  Sunday and whipped the Lyons  equally-inell'eetive quarterbacks.  
early touchdown energiz11d tho  convert successfully.  Lions 28-0.  The Lewis offense then kicked  Contact Becki Dorner at  
Walsh dnfensn.  Badin's defense also seemed  ''I'm very proud of the way we  into high gear and cruised to the  rdornerI@nd.edu and  
It had bonn .Julie Campbell's  reenergized after the hall', with  played on both sides of the ball,"  victory.  James Fegan at jfegan@nd.edu.  



@otm~rii~

BARS of 
IRISH PUB

the BEND 
~ EST.1990 .. e~ .su ~ :eu-4 4'44 ~"' 



YOU MUST BE 21 YEARS OF AGE 
TuESDAYS AND 

WITH VALID ID TO CONSUME
~tuiNell~ lJlli'lili!!HJmlffiil 
THURSDAYS: 


www.rumrunnersusa.com 

ALCOHOL AT THESE ESTABLISHMENTS. EVERY WEDNESDAY 

EVERY THURSDAY 
$2 
$3.00 PITCIIEHS ANYdrink $ I.OO DOMESTIC 
MAI)ISC)N ()YSl'ER BAR
in the house!! 
75¢ 
DRAFTS 
Thl'l'l' l.nds of F..rlcctir 

Creal Drink Specials EI'CI:nla_l'
Well Drinks 
AtJtH):"!J>hnl'

OPEN MIC NIGHT!! 
NO COVEH!

CoiC l'ool, Fomhall, Darb, Monday: $1 Draul(hts, $'1· l'itchl'rs
$2 
ENORMOUS Come play or sing on 

111~ Sn"<'L'II, 21 + Tuesday: $2.2.'> ('all! Basket of Fries 
Wednesday: $1..)0 Dolllestic Long Necks 
stage with our ente-:-tainers 
$I .00 CANS EVERY


-Fried ()yslcrs· 
Thursday: $2 . .'i0 Imports
-SL·al(><><l Platter-
DAY OF SELECT

GREAT LIVE ENTERTAI MENT EVERY NIGHT!!!! 

Friday: $:l.'i0 :·l2ot Draughts/ (Joust' Pints


.('harhroik·d S1rip­-('hop~ & Burg-c.:r~--Kl'l'p iht' (;]ass! 

DOMESTICS
100 N. Center St. Mishawaka 

Saimday: $l.'i Buckt'l Mix Import
(behind Hacienda) 
\\'l'il-Siorked Bar & llllporls

(574) 259 -7522 12!1 N. Main St(@Collitx), South Bl'nd, IN .'i71.2HH.:·l77G 






-1~1" 


Watch all Notre


11zu.tJdarj llt~~dy Jfaty llat
Monday: 
Dame Games­Never a cover 
Most and Largest
Karaoke Night, 
with Student ID
32~] a~~'r. o~'r. $3 #~m~ qam€3 8-1/am! 
Screens in Town 
~:cur 
GO IRISH
$2.50 House Special 
setMrithe... 
Tuesday: 
SUDS 
2046 South Bend Ave Across from Martins Plaza 
$1.50 Domestic Bottles 
$2.00 Wells 
272-1766 
Wednesday: 


MONDAY THURSDAY Trivia Night, 
All food 1/2 price, $10.00 buckets, Every Thursday Private Party for Monday Night Football on HDTV NO, HC and SMC students
$3.00 Pitchers 
$1.25 dogs & $1.25 drafts 
2nd Penny night. 

TUESDAY 1 ¢ wells and drafts,Thursday: 
ALL DAY EVERY DAY 

NO penny night, $1 off cover with OJ plays hits all night long $2.00 Imports 
student 10, OJ all night, 1 ¢ wells and drafts FRIDAY
10% Discount 
OJ till 3:00 a.m.,
w/ Student ID
Sunday: 

WEDNESDAY pre-game warm up $10.00 Domestic Buckets 
Live trivia night with cash prizes and free drinks, 1 to 8 people SATURDAY per team, 8:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Game day-Go IRISH.


lcRAptsl Karaoke:
Kitchen Open Every Day 
Defending champs: NO law OJ after games,


"Sing Your Way 
Daily Grill Specials: 

Legal Eagles. 69¢ bitty burger, celebrate victory and boogie M-Th 4pm-3am 
49¢ wings, $10.00 buckets till dawn. ESPN game plan Fri 11 am-3am 
to Vegas" 
Wed 9pm-2pm 
SUNDAY
Sat 4pm-3am 
$1.50 burgers, dogs, 
Sun 11 am-12midnight 
fries and bottles.
1733 South Bend Ave. 

NFL Sunday tickets· 14 screens. 574.234.4015 
574.277.2527 
Tuesday, September 271 ::W.05

The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
.------------------~-----------------­
, , ~,. ., 6 , : r .' -­

• ' M-' J I .,• t 
'li•csday, September 27, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS 
Volleyball 
continued from page 24 
donn thn bnst they can. Notre Damn playnd a Sunday match and just now turrwd its focus towards tonight. 
"Today, wn scoutnd," Stasiuk said. "W(~ had film. We went ovnr their hitters and part of' their oiTense. But basically, wo practicml our oiTnnsn a lot." 
Thn Irish havn not ovnr­lookml thn Harnhlnrs, but thny havnn't worrind, eithnr. Thny rnspnet thnir opponnnt but rnalizn as long as thny play their gamn. tlwy'ro linn. 
"We have to got bettor at 
playing average teams," Stasiuk said. "That was one of' the things Coach Brown said ... we have to control our sidn of' the net no matter what team we're playing." 
The Irish camn into the week as tlw only team in thn nation to rank in the top-15 in both blocks (8) and digs (14). 
Today's road trip to Chicago for a 7 p.m. match begins a grunling stretch for the Irish, but also a strntch they arn willing and ready to handiP. 
"Wn're all ready to go," Stasiuk said. "We're ennr­gizml." 
Besides an Oct. 5 home match, the Irish won't play in thn state of' Indiana until Oct. 
21, with snvon of their next night matchns away from home. 
Despite Loyola's 3-9 overall rncord, Notre Dame knows it's in for a dogfight, and it knows it cannot tako the llorizon League team lightly. 
The Irish have put together a solid week after their first loss of the season against LSU. After playing a sloppy tourna­ment that weekend -barely boating Tulane and gntting handled by tho spirited LSU squad -the Irish are deter­mined to play at their own lcwel. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 


9nferrace ~orum 

Come to Cofeman-Mor1e at7:30 1YM. Oct. 7 to tDscuss what!JOU le{ine as beau'J 1{SYP@ 'MSPS: t-6841 ~ .Sep.30 fJinner wiffbe provider/! 
----;--------­
"I 
page 21 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles to host Tri-State in MIAA colllpetition 
Team will face a much-improved squad in conference rnatch 
By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 
Julin Schrocdnr-Biok is donn judging a team by its n~cord. The veteran Bellns eoaeh knows bettor than that. 
This season, her team has faced tnams with records of 1­7,2-7,2-9 and 3-12. Saint Mary's is 2-2 in thosn contests, and the losses were not due to poor play on the part of BeiiPs. 
The opponents have simply been much better than the 
records have indicated. 
That's why the Belles expect a tough match tonight when they host Tri­State University, a team that went 0-16 in the MIAA last sea­son, ineluding two losses to Saint Mary's. 
"Every team in this league is going to bo com­petitive," 
Schroeder-Biek said. "You can't overlook anybody. We have to be ready." 
Under new coach Sarah Steele, Tri-State is 7-5 with a 1-3 conference record. 
The Thunder have shown vast improvement as their younger players have matured and gained experience. Tri­State lost only one player from last year's team. 
The Thunder split two matches over the weekend, defeating Kalamazoo 3-1 and losing to Albion 3-2. 
Like the Thunder, the Belles are much improved. They have shown maturity and mental toughness, especially in five­game matches -in which they are 3-1. 
With solid attaeking from Kristen Playko, strong blor.k­ing from Shelly Bender, tough defense from Amw Cusack and tlw omorgon1~n of Amanda David as setter, tlw Belli's have already surpassnd last sea­son's win total. 
Saint Mary's nntnrs tonight's r.ont1~st on a two-game losing stroak after dropping eonfPr­enr.n matches to Calvin and Alma Saturday. Saint Mary's playNI wnll in spurts during tho wenkond, ospndally in the final two games of tho Alma match, but it was not. enough to win. 
Sdmwdnr-Biek said develop­ing consistency will hn kny to thn Bolles' suer.nss tonight. 
"!On Saturday! we didn't 
"/On Saturday/ we didn't pass consistently, the timing on our blocks was offand we had some trouble communicating. We didn't play poorly, we just need to focus on the little things." 
Julie Schroeder-Biek Belles head coach 
hope to move 
pass consis­
tently, the tim­
ing on our 
bloeks was ofT 
and we had 
some trouble 
eornmunieat­
ing," she said. 
··we didn't play 
poorly, we just 
nnnd to l'oeus 
on the little 
things to 
improve our 
game." 
This is a cru­eial game for thn Belles, who up in the MIAA 
standings from their current 8th-place slot. Tri-State is 7th in the conference. 
Tonight marks the Belles' second-to-last confernnec horne match. 
With a number of tough road matches ahead, Saint Mary's will need to take advantage of' tho limited numbor of' gamos remaining at the Angola Athlotic Center. The Belles are 2-4 in home matdws this yoar. 
Following tonight's contest, the Belles will step out of' con­ference to f'ace Bethel College at horne Saturday. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer6@nd.edu 

SIT Program 1n -Uganda 

• Interestedin_;2Lfrica? 
• Interestedin Challenges c;t Issues o_f<Developing :Arations? 
CDon 't miss a study a6roadopportunity tfirougfi tfie Scfioo[for lnternationa[cTraining. Irifonnation ~eeting on: q'fiursday, Septem6er 29, 2005 ~om 125 :J-fayes -[}-[ea[y Ylt 5:3 m 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, September 27, 2005 
MEN's INTERHALL FooTBALL-GoLD LEAGUE 
Solid defenses dominate three games in -week two 
minutes remaining in the sec­and moved downfield to their and just played classic Dillon of the game.Morrissey wins close ond quarter, Mob lineman 48 behind two completions football," Acosta said. Breslin was responsible for Robert Ladd was able to sack from quarterback Rob Coly. The Dillon offense set the that touchdown, as well.
contest with O'Neill; 

Spencer in the end zone for Play was delayed, however, tone for the game early on Lining up to punt in the first Dillon tops Keenan the safety. when a Dillon player had to be with a 12-play opening drive, quarter, Breslin couldn't l'ind O'Neill's defense also per­taken off the field in an ambu­resulting in a Duffy touchdown the handle on a slippery ball. formed well in the game, lance. The player was down on run. The Big Hed were able to Undeterred, he turned the By JAY FITZPATRICK, recording the safety, blocking the field for several minutes move the ball el'fieiently in two botched punt to his advantage JASON GALVAN and GREG a 41-yard field goal attempt before an emergPncy crew other drives to control the ball as he scrambled making multi­ARGOBAST and forcing a turnover -an arrived on the scene to pro­for most of the game and wear ple Keough defenders miss on Sports Wrirers interception by defensive back vide medial assistance. down the defending champion his way to a 70 yard touch­
Pat Conley. With only a minute to go, the Knights' defense. down run. 
Morrissey tailback Nick "We played good defense out Knights drove to the Dillon 25 The Knights took the lead Keough's offense consisted of Klein ran for a 5-yard touch­there, but we need to cut with two more key comple­early in the third quarter with handing the ball to freshman down, the game's only score, down on sloppy tackles," tions and seemed to seal the a Dan Zanker touchdown running back Mike Anello at the beginning of the fourth O'Neill coach victory when reception but were unable to early and often. quarter to lead Morrissey past Mike Milligan Coly connected consistently establish the run Anello accounted for nearly
"Our defense definitely 

O'Neill, 6-2. Sunday. said. "We were with one of his against a stingy Dillon all of the yards gained by the
excelled out there

Ncar the end of the third arm tackling too receivers in the defense. Keenan captain Vince Kangaroo offense, including quarter, the Morrissey defense much out today.,, end zone. Lyzinski noted that his team's their lone touchdown, an 80­stopped O'Neill's drive short there." However, the main problem was attitude. yard scamper to put the with a fumble. giving the 0' N e iII's Knights were "We came out flat and just Kangaroos up 9-6 before half­
Nick Klein 

Manor field position deep offense also called for offen­got outplayed." Lyzinksi said. time. This play completed a 
Morrissey captain 

inside O'Neill territory. A con­boasted a strong sive pass inter­"They were ready, we weren't. huge momentum shift in sistent Manor running game running game, ference and, We need to get that intensity Keough's favor. It came on the moved the ball 25 yards, cul­led by tailback Braden Turner. after being moved back to the back, especially with a tough first play after Dorian Inzunza minating in the Klein touch­which worked consistently 40-yard line, the Dillon team like Stanford up next on sacked Alumni quarterback down. well against the Manor in the defense held its ground and the schedule." Kcrger Truesbell for a safety 
O'Neill got the ball back at first half. did not allow another comple­immediately following a goal their own 35, but could not O'Neill has a bye next week tion. Alumni 9, Keough 9 line stand by the Dawg move the Manor defense. but plays Keough in two Dillon captain Romeo Acosta Special teams hurt Alumni defense. 
A failed fourth and long gave weeks. Morrissey will play was pleased with his team's early, but they came through Sunday's result didn't help Morrissey the ball at the Keough next week. performance. late to enable the Dawgs to either Alumni or Keough as O'Neill 36 with under 3 min­"This was a completely dif­gain a 9-9 tie with the both teams now stand at 0-1­utes to play. A crucial fourth­Dillion 13, Keenan 8 ferent game from last week," Kangaroos of Keough Sunday. 1. To make the playoffs, each and-inches conversion by The Keenan Knights came Acosta said. "We just really Alumni kicker Andrew team needs to win their last Manor quarterback Mike up just short on their final came together out there as a Breslin converted a 36-yard two·gam·es. Keough plays Spencer gave Morrissey the drive and lost their first game team." field goal with less than six Morrissey and O'Neill while ability to kneel on the ball and of the season to the Dillon Big The Big Red offense was minutes left to play to tie the Alumni plays Dillon and let time -and the Mob's Red Sunday. anchored with a strong per­game. Stanford. comeback hopes-expire. Keenan fell behind by five formance by running back "I was confident in Andrew," "We're a good run-stopping 
Although Morrissey failed to when Dillon quarterback Alex Duffy, who had 110 yards Alumni captain Hyan team, and Dillon mainly runs make the two-point conver­Kenny Cushing connected with on the ground and rushed for McGettigan said. "He always the ball," said McGettigan. sion, the six points were A.J. Cedeno for a 1 5-yard a touchdown. makes long field goals for us." "We just have to take it one . enough to win because of touchdown pass early in the "Last week we had a few Breslin's l'ield goal proved to game at a time." Morrissey's air:tight defense. fourth quarter. things go wrong, but we really be the final score of the game 
"Our defense definitely After the Big Red missed the got it together and just played as Alumni was unable to capi­Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at excelled out there today," extra point, the Knights took well," Duffy said. talize off a late Keough fumble jfitzpaS@nd.edu, Manor captain Klein said. the ball back at their own 35 Nearly all of the Dillon of'fen­which leaves tho Dawgs won­Jason Galvan at Morrissey's defense forced two but fumbled on the lirst play of sive production came from dering what might have been jgalvan@nd.edu turnovers, the fumble that led the drive. The Big Red were their rushing attack. had they converted the extra and Greg Argo bast at 
to the touchdown and an interception, and blocked a 30-yard field goal attempt as time ran out in tho l'irst half'. 
The Morrissey defense regis­tered a shutout, as the only points O'Neill was able to put up were against the Manor's offense. With less than three then in position to put the game away after the Keenan turnover but failed to move the ball and convert on fourth down inside the red zone. 

Keenan took over with less than two minutes to go in the contest at their 16-yard line. The Knights took to the air 
anything he could do for him. The boy requested a pass to
Pass 

the right on the first play of the continued from page 24 game and Weis obliged. After being notified of shirts, hats and stuff," hoping Montana's death Thursday to make the child feel a little evening in Washington, Weis better. talked on the phone with It worked. Rockne. He promised to deliver "I was able to get a couple an autographed footbaJl to the smiles out of him," Weis said. Mazurkiewicz household. "His mom got to take a couple which he did Sunday after­pictures. She said it was the noon. first time he really smiled in The situation inspired Weis about three months." to rellect on his own children. Weis informed 12-year old his players of the Charlie and 10­
"To watch a kid that,s
meeting Wed­year old 
IO years old only ...
nesday, using Hannah. Montana as an smile ... because ofhis "Knowing that example of who I would do any­
passion and love for 
they represent as thing in the
Notre Dame football, 
Notre Dame foot­world for my ball players. that ,s a really good kids, to watch 
"To watch a moral to tell your own this 10-year old 
kid that's 10 ... and the only
players.,,
years old only thing that could get a smile to his get a smile out of face because of Charlie Weis him was. the his passion and head coach from
head coach 
love for Notre Notre Dame sit-Dame football, ting there talk­that's really a good moral to ing about Notre Dame football. tell your own players," Weis it makes me feel really good said. "It's not just the that I went over there. University they're represent­"I hope he's smiling in heav­ing. it's all the people who sup­en right now." port that University." 
During their encounter, WeiS Contact Mike Gilloon at asked Montana if there was mgilloon@nd.edu 
"We went back to the run point on their first touchdown gargoba@nd.cdu 
LIVE AND STUDY 

ROME INFORMATION SESSIONS 
5 PM MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19  131 DEBARTOLO  
OR  
5 PM TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27  131 DEBARTOLO  

Tuesday, September 27, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 


ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS
JOCKULAR 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BITUC 
I I I [] 
!02005 Tnbune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
SBAAH 
luI I I 
www.jumble.com 
Jumbles: UNCLE
Yesterday's 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRJON 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

WHEN HIS SON ASKeD FOR MONEY, DAD WAS LEFT IN A--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 
OFTEN GOITER LICHEN 
Answer: Why the spies went to the university ­
FOR "INTELLIGENCE" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEIIRITIES HORN ON THIS UA Y: Christina Milian, 24; Serena Williams, 
24; Shawn Stockman, 33; James Ca'viezel, 37 
Happy llirthdny: This can be the stm1 of a really good time for you if you arc industrious and can pull together the ideas you've had over the years but haven't gotten off the ground. Make adjustments that will help you move to the next level. Your discipline will allow you more success than you've had in the past. Your numbers an; 3, 8, 10, 19, 23,41 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Too much is happening and, although you thrive .._ on hectic schedules, it will be a bit much even for you. Sort through what you · can and can't accomplish. Don't let your emotions stand in your way. •• TAURUS (Aprii20-Mny 20): Everything will depend on how you get along with other people today. A love relationship will be a little deceptive. Keep your eyes wide open so you don't miss any underlying signals. •••• GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): It will be hard to control your emotions regarding money or children. The more you do to help others, the better. Don't let your past hold you hostage. It's time to move forward. *** CANCER (.June 21-July 22): Don't even think about discussing your personal problems today. You will have enough trouble keeping the peace without mising cmoti'onal issues. Go out of your way to be accommodating. •• LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Focus on your home and what you can do to make it more comlortable or entertaining. Sudden changes regarding your linances look good. A problem may be more di flicult to deal with than lirst anticipmed. •• • VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): It's what you do with your time that counts. Don't hesitate to go aller a deal that has been difficult to close in the past. Get all details in writing.**** LIHRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Do not meddle in the personal allairs of friends or lamily. Someone you work with may not be very complimentary. Stand up for yourseiC but don't retaliate. •• SCORI'IO (Oct. 23-No\'. 21): Get different points of view bcl\1rc you proceed with a long-term project. You'll get a chance to spend some romantic time with someone you love. Problems with authority ligures may set you back. ••••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Ucc. 21): Don't try to impress others by being a big spender. Budget tightly so you aren't caught short at month's end. Emotional problems will narc up if you owe someone money and he or she wants to collect. 
CAI'RICORN (Ucc. 22-.Jan. 19): Nothing will go according to plan. Be prepared to change direction midway. Problems with colleagues will confuse you. A partnership may not tum out as you had hoped. •• AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feh. 18): You have all sorts of chances to turn things around today. Your ability to take nothing and tltrn it into something will surprise everyone around you. ••• I'ISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You will sec some unique developments if you make a lew changes to your home or to yourscl CCict out and have fun with the , one you love or, if you arc single, connect with someone special. ***** 
IJirthday Hab)·: You have a stylish way of presenting who you arc and what you can do. You are easy to approach and very persuasive. You arc a team player, but you usually end up being the leader. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor.fim, eugeniala.\'l.com./hr conjidellliLII consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Oktoberfest band instrument 
5 Retirement spots? 
9 Singer Cline 14 Caspian Sea feeder 15 Saudi Arabia neighbor 
16 Toulouse ta-ta 17 Main point 18 Scarlett's home 
19 Aerodynamic 20 Drummer Ringo, taking pictures? 23 Off one's feed 
24 Jackie's 0 25 Rare hit for a slow runner 29 A ton of 
31 Family nickname 
34 Like "Goosebumps" stories 
35 Hostilities ender 36 Spewer of 2002 37 Educator 
Horace, acting like a barbarian? 40 Renaissance family name 41 Post-it 42 Broadcast 43 L.P.G.A. supporter? 44 Throws in 45 Takes in or out 46 "-ite" compound, often 47 Gardner of film 
48 Actor Jack, circling the globe? 
55 Obliging spirit 56 A mothball may have one 57 Colorado skiing mecca 59 Playwright Chekhov 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

60 Weightlifter's count, informally 
61 Old Harper's Bazaar illustrator 
62 Mango's center 63 Actress Winslet 64 Call for 
DOWN 1 Harbor craft 2 "The Haj" author 3 Wild party 4 Deep-voiced, 
for a woman 5 Bit of skid row litter 6 Letters on 
screens 7 "Rats!" a Fly in the 
ointment 9 Danish, e.g. 10 Loser to Dwight, twice 11 Amphitheater 
section 12 Palmist, e.g. 13 Big laugh 21 Drunk as a 
skunk 22 Seasonal temp 
position 25 Basic principle 26 Witherspoon of 
"Legally Blonde" 27 Boiling mad 28 Bench material 29 Dillon and 
Damon 30 Need Advil, say 31 Pre-fight psych 
job 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILL SHORTZ 

Puzzle by Randall J. Hartman 
32 City or child 44 ·"What's My preceder Line?" panelist 
Francis
33 of time nugget 45 Disinclined
35 Poke 52 20-20, e.g. 46 Heavenly hunter 
53 Expose 47 Take on 36 Send out 54 Dentist's38 Wound up concern
48 Exploded, with
39 1980's-90's "off" 55 Interstate sign 

courtroom drama 49 Savvy about 58 Had an edge 
For answers, call 1-900--5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
..

D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Tuesday, September 27, 2005 
page 24 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Defenses lead Zahm, Fisher and Carroll to solid Sunday wins 
By COLIN REIMER, DAN 
MURPHY and FRAN TOLAN 
Spors Wri rers 
In tight, defensive battles, the winner is usually decided by special teams and turnovers, and whether or not the opponent can capitalize on them. Zahm did just that Sunday, recovering two Sorin fumbles and dominating on special teams en route to a 12-0 victory. 
On a rain-soakPd afternoon, Bats quarterback Sean Wieland compl1~ted 6-of-12 passes for 73 yards and two second quarter touchdowns, both to wide receiVer Jake Richardville to provide the only scoring for the contest. 
Meanwhile, the stellar Zahm defense contained Sorin's spread attack throughout the game and had constant pres­sure on Otter quarterback Stu Mora. The Bats' special teams also came through in the clutch, blocking a first quarter field goal and also springing punt returner/running back Theo Ossei-Anto for a huge return that set up Zahm's sec-
By air or by 1 D' 


A Carroll receiver, left, elevates and catches a pass against Siegfried during Carroll's 6-0 win Sunday. Right, a Welsh player extends to catch a touchdown pass in Welsh's 16-12 victory. 
ond score.  sides, but it was Zahm that  seemed uncomfortable with  
The  big  story  was  the  was able to capitalize.  all day, the Otters botched a  
weather,  though,  as  both  Following a  scoreless first  snap, which Zahm recovered  
teams struggled to adapt to  quarter, Sorin started deep in  on Sarin's 24 yard line. Zahm  
the slippery ball.  There were.  its own territory.  But, play­ 
several botched snaps on both  ing in  a  shotgun  set  they  see BLUE/page 17  

_Welsh Family stops the Pyros; McGlinn shuts out Pangborn 
By DREW FONTANA and 
DIEDRE KRASULA 
Sporrs Wrirers 
Pasquerilla East quarterback Leslie Follmler's pass fell to the ground in the corner of the end zone Sunday, taking with it Pasquerilla East's hopes as the Pyros lost, 16-12, to Welsh Family at the West Quad lields. 
Follmer drove her tea·m nearly the length of the field in the final minutes. On fourth and goal, needing a touchdown to win, Follmer lofted a pass toward the eorner of the end zone and the ball fell incom­plete just beyond the reach of two Pyro receivers. 
The Whirlwinds took the lead when freshman Jenni Gargola caugbt a pass from quarterback Melissa Sands in stride and sprinted the rest of the way to the end zone. This was just one play after Megan Conway, a Pyro wideout, caught a touchdown pass after a long Pasquerilla East drive to put the Pyros up 12-8. 
At halftime the score stood at 
see GOLD/page 17 

fOOTBALL 
Weis grants a young Irish fan's final ~ish 
10-year-old boy from Mishawaka called for ipass right' before deqth 
By MIKE GILLOON Spons Editor 
Faced with first-and-10 from his own 1-yard line, Charlie Weis had a decision to make. Should he listen to his coaching instincts and run up the mid­dle, creating room for the See Also Irish offense 
"Big plays not a

to maneuver? Or should be small problem" listen to 
page 16

Montana? 
The Notre Dame head coach chose the latter. 
With a suggestion from 
Montana Mazurkiewicz, the Irish ran a bootleg right in the l'irst play of Saturday's game against Washington, resulting in a 13-yard completion from Irish quarterback Brady Quinn to tight end Anthony Fasano. 
Sadly, Mazurkiewicz did not live to see the play. The 10­year old Mishawaka boy died Thursday from brain cancer. 
Weis had received word from the University that the boy, named after legendary Irish quarterback Joe Montana and a passionate Notre Dame fan, was near-death, the coach said at his press conference Sunday. 
So Weis stopped by the Mazurkiewicz's house last Wednesday to visit with Montana, his brother Rockne and his mother Cathy. He brought with him "a couple T-
see PASS/page 22 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Tea111 set for 111atch -with Loyola 
Irish hope to improve play from weekend series with Seton Hall 
By TOM DORWART Sporrs Wrirer 
It's time they step up. 

Sophomore libero/outside hitter Adrianna Stasiuk knows it, and her teammates know it, too. 
The Irish feel they may have played down to the level of their competition so far this season. And while Notre Dame swept by Seton Hall Sunday afternoon, the Irish know they can do better. 
"We really were focusing on our side of the net and not so much their side of the net [at practice today]," said Stasiuk, who has provided a major boost to her team since returning from an off-season injury. clash. 

Notre Dame (8-1, 1-0 Big While the Irish have had East) will face Loyola-Chicago only a day to prepare for (3-9, 2-0 Horizon League) on tonight's match, they have the road in Alumni Gym in the midweek non-conference see VOLLEYBALL/page 21 

,· 

WOME~'S I~TERHAU. 
FOOTBALL RECRUITI~G

SMC VOI.LEYBAU• 
NCAA FOOTBAll

FOOTBAll ~OTEBOOK 
ClUB SPORTS
..... 
Blue League

(,) Tri-State at Saint 
Tennessee 30,
z Mary's 
Eric Olsen became the 
LSU 27 (OT)

Irish coach Charlie 
Walsh pounds Badin, 
latest recruit to commit 

Weis is disappointed 
Irish sailors take third 
::5 

The Belles will face a 
20-0, behind Laurie 
to the Irish for the class 

with the team's tendency 
The Vols erased a 21­
place at invitational in
~ 
Wasikowski's two-touch­
of 2010.

conference foe tonight 
point halftime deficit to

to give up big plays. 
New York City.
cc 

at the Angela Athletic 
down performance. 
beat the No. 4 team in
!i Center. 
the country 

page 21 
page 19 
page 16 
page 15
page 18 
page 14 







