
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 129 THURSDAY, APRIL 21,2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
ND -will a-ward 13 honorary degrees at commencement 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
Associate Nrws Editor 

Thirteen honorary degrees will bP awarded at Notre Damn's May 15 eommoncenwnt cPrPmony. Univnrsity officials announctHI Wndnnsday. Among tlw rncipionts will be baseball lognnd !lank Aaron and former papal candidate Cardinal Francis Arinze. 
In addition to commnnr.ement speaknr Vartan Grngorian, prosidE)nt of the Carnegie Corporation, Notre Dame will honor distinguishnd figures ­thnH~ women and I 0 men-for their contributions in fields ranging from business, law and science to medicine, sports and entertain­ment, said Dennis Brown, asso­ciato director . ·,·~.. 
' .
of news and information. llonorary t degrees arc 
' 
ways of rec­
Aaron

ognizing and honoring the accomplishments of various individuals. Students, faculty and staff members are all allowed to nominate a person 
for an honorary degree. 
"Each of the colleges submits recommendations for honorary 
degree recip­ients, and other sugges­tions can be submitted by anyone with­in the cam­pus commu­nity," Brown said. 

Uni ve rsity Arlnze President Father Edward Malloy and sev­eral officers then narrow down the group of nominees. They make the final decisions, which usually consists of 10 to 12 individuals who do not neces­sarily need a connection to the University, Brown said. 
Aaron, the all-time leader for career runs in Major League Baseball who was elected to the Ilall of rame in 1982, will receive a doctorate of laws. 
Arinze, a Nigerian who was considered a strong papal can­didate before Pope Benedict XVI was selected Tuesday and has been instrumental in pro­moting inter-religious dialogue, will also receive a doctorate of laws. 
Dr. Benjamin Carson, one of the top brain surgeons in the 

Abroad students flock to St. Peter's 
New pope's views spark debate in Rome 
By KELLY MEEHAN 
Nrws Writer 
HOME -Saint Mary's sopho­more Sarah DeShon was not expecting a rww pope to be olocted so quickly. When her roommate informed her Tuesday evening that a pope had been named, she knew she only had about 45 minutes to arrive at tlw Vatican to see the prnsnntation of the new pontiff. She bngan running to St. Peter's square. 
Slw had company. 

"I think it was amazing to soe so many people running through tlw streets. osp!~cially SI'VI'ral pril'sts and nuns," I)I'Siwn said. 
Word spn•ad quil'kly among Saint Mary's studnnts studying in Hon11• artnr (;prman Cardinal .Josnph Hatzingnr was announn~d as t.lw next pope. 
sec.: DEBATE/page 6 

Baron delivers first State of the Student Union 
Miller gave an exuberant. almost !lamboyant introduction of the new presidnnt. 
Despite being unable to sup­press a few laughs himself. Baron quickly regained compo­sure, apologizing for "all the pomp. circumstance and political theory that I'm about to give ­but hey, that's what you get when you elect a !political sc.ieneel and !economics! major as studPnt body pt·esident." 
lie stressed the power of the Student Union while analyzing thn common phrase "student government has no power." 
"I'm here tonight to both agree and entirely refute that state­ment," Baron said. 
lie explained he agrees with 
see UNION/page 6 

Crowds attend the papal announcement 
By RICKY McROSKEY 
News Writer 

HOME -As the slow, steady cheers of "Benedetto" resound­ed throughout St. Peter's square, Notre Dame students had the special opportunity to witness history when Cardinal Joseph Hatzinger ascended to the papacy Tuesday evening in Home. There, at 5:50 p.m .. white smoke rose from the Sistine Chapel chimney and all of Home -and the world, for that matter -turned its gaze toward the Vatican to hear the first words of Pope Benedict XVI. 
Many students wen~ tlH're for tho first papal inauguration in 26 years, though thn suddr•n nature of the announer~nH~nl sent many of them running toward St. Peter's from all dif­ferent parts of Horne. 
see CROWDS/ page 8 

By MADDIE HANNA 
Associate News Editor 
Emphasizing "we're not gov­ernment; we're Union," student body president Dave Baron deliv­ered his first State of the Student Union See Also address 
"Members

Wednesday night, assum­discuss ing the podi­
basketball 

um at the beginning of tickets, future of the Senate Copy Shop"meeting. 
page4

Baron's entry was what one might expect of a big­time politician -except for the laughter that ensued after direc­tor of communications Steve world known for successfully separating Siamese twins joined at the hack of the head in 1987, will recetvEl a doctor­ate of science. 
Judge Hobert Carter, a U.S. District Court judge for tho Southern District of New York known for his involvomnnt in the civil rights movement, will receive a doctorate of laws. 
Hobert Conway, class of 1966, a senior director at Goldman Sachs who also serves on Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, will receive a doctorate of laws. 
.Jack Greenberg, a well-
see DEGREES/page 6 


Lead-ND works to help local youth 
By JARRETT LANTZ 
News Writer 
In his first year com posi­
tion class, Steve Cartwright 
was tasked with writing an 
essay about the issue of' 
educational disparity. ;\s he 
sat hunched over his desk, 
lw had an idea: instPad of 
just writing about tlw prob­
lem. he could propose a 
solution -a solution that 
IPd to his founding of Lead 
ND, a Notrn Danw sPrvirr• 
club. 
l.ead-ND strivPs to pro· ·vidP South Bnnd youth with 
al'l!~r-srhool romrnunity 
sr~rviee opportuniii!~S. Wh:Lt 
sets Lead-ND apart from 
other service programs is 
that the participating chil­
dren, not adults, plan and 
carry out the bulk of the 
projects. 
During this past semester, 
10 Notre Dame students 
visited the children at 
Jefferson lntermndiatP 
School to gently guidE~ tlw 
organization of tlwir own 
community sr~rvien projects. 
"A lot of stud11nts come 
!'rom low socioEH'.onom ir 
backgrounds and lwvn a lot 
of dilTnrnnt issuns tlwy l'acP 
at school and away from 
school," I.Pad-ND tt~am 
leader Krystal llardy said. 
"Tiwy're the kids that don't 
twcnssarily get straight ;\s, 
but thny havP a lot of lPad­
ership potnntial. Tlwy seP 
that part of thnmsPivns 
stuck as a 'elass c:lown', bur 
we'vr1 shown them that tlH'Y 
can channel that energy 
into somnthing positive." 
Over onn year of planning 
and training culminated in 
see LEAD-NO/page 8 
Thursday, April 21, 2005 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Proper· 


quad attire 

From what I can recall, Notre. Dame is not the University of Southern California. 
While the beauty of the St. Joe's and St. Mary's Lakes surpasses any 
ocean. unfortu­ 
nately they are  Jen Rowling 
barely lakes ­ 
rather represen­ 
tative of ponds.  News Writer  
At the same  
time it is under­ 

standable how the grassy North, South and God quads can be mis­taken for the sandy beaches of the Pacific coast. 
The sooner students come to rec­ognize the difference between the beaches of California and the quads of Notre Dame, the better off we all will be. 
What exactly do I mean by under­standing the difference between the quads and the beach? By no means do I suggest that students not be out enjoying the radiant South Bend sun. That is what the quads are for. I enjoy walking to and from classes listening to the resounding music from the dorm windows and wit­nessing the countless games of fris­bee. soccer and baseball. Furthermore, I find great pleasure in observing the talented trapeze artists who spend their afternoons walking across a rope connected to trees. All would agree that a nap on the grass tops off a spring day at Notre Dame. 
So where exactly does the prob­lem come in? 
The spring events I have described take place on a grassy ql!ad, and therefore, they should be accompanied by "quad attire." Although I cannot specify exactly what I mean by "quad attire," I can, however, explain what I do not intend. 
Ladies, while itis finally warm enough to stop wasting money at FunTan and Malibu Tan, the quad is not the beach. Wear your bathing suits underneath a tank top and shorts. Heck, even sport your bathing top if you truly desire. Please, however, refrain from mod­eling the entire swim suit. When you run out to catch that frisbee at least have on a pair of shorts. 
Gentlemen, I must admit there are a few of you who are deserving of a "double take" with your shirts off. However, is it really necessary all the time? I never realized how throwing a baseball or frisbee could work up such an intense sweat. Make us girls think you are a bit more masculine. Save the non-shirt competitions for a heated game of quad football or volleyball. 
Couples, relaxing together on a blanket underneath the sunny sky is more than acceptable. When I pass couples laughing, talking and basking in the sun, I smile and find it quite adorable. However, exces­sive affection should not be on dis­play. Warmer temperatures do not mean increased public display of affection. 
In short, keep your clothes on and have fun! 
Contact Jen Rowling at jrowling@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BEST TIME OF THE YEAR AT NOTRE DAME? 

Katie Jannazo  Jen Richard  Ashley Shelton  Tom Stablein  Michael Devitt  Brian Fallon  
freshman Cavanaugh  sophomore Walsh  sophomore Walsh  sophomore Knott  sophomore Dillon  sophomore Dillon  
"The first really warm day when everyone comes  "The first snow­fall -before it's freezing and  '"WILD' week in Walsh ... ifyou don't know, you  "Leaving Bond at 7 for breakfast. "  "Football season ... what else would it  "Spring. Everyone loves a good tulip. "  






on the quad. " we get sick of shouldfind winter." out." 
Harvard students treated for rashes after party 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. ­Harvard undergraduates are in a lather over a party where students donned bathing suits and danced in a sea of foamy bubbles, only to wake up the next morning with painful rashes. 
Seven or eight students who attended the annual "Mather Lather" party at the Mather House resi­dence hall were later treated for skin rashes at Harvard's infirmary, according to Harvard spokesman Robert Mitchell. 
TODAY 
c:: 
L&J ::1: 
~ 
L&J 
3: 

~ 

are bank robbers. There are cross-dressers. A sus­pect being sought appar­ently fits both descrip­tions. 
The Loudoun County Sheriff's Office said Wednesday it is looking for a robber who walked into the Washington First Bank on Tuesday, handed a note to a teller and implied he had a weapon. 
Investigators described the suspect as a 6-foot-3 man -wearing a flowery dress, a dark wig and white gloves. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

The party, which drew an estimated 600 students last Saturday night, fea­tures a foam-making machine that fills the dance floor with suds. The foam apparently contains· a chemical additive that keeps revelers from slip­ping, but can cause rashes if it isn't properly mixed or washed off soon after exposure. 
Harvard freshman Andrew Trombly said he developed rashes on his arms and legs. 
That was no lady, that was a bank robber! STERLING, Va.-There 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 


be.?" 
IN BRIEF 

The Howard Hall Bone Marrow Registration will take place between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. today in the Sorin and Dooley Rooms on the first floor of LaFortune. 
There will be a performance of Tom Stoppard's "Arcadia" today at 7:30 in the Decio Mainstage Theatre. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. Buy tickets at the box office. 
Writer Blue Balliett will sign copies of his latest book "Chasing Vermeer" today at 4 
p.m. in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Guillermo Grenier, professor of sociology at Florida International University in Miami, Fla., will give a lecture entitled "Exiles and Ideology: The Creation and Maintenance of the Suban-American Exile~ ideology -evident from the 2004 Cuba Poll." It will begin at 4 p.m. today in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
The Notre Dame Invention Convention will take place Thursday between 5:30 p.m. and 
8:30 in the Giovanini Commons. Mednoza College of Business. The event is cosponored by the Gigot Center for Entrpreneurial Students and the Robinson Community Learning Center. 
The film "Downwind: Depleted Uranium Weapons in the Age of Virtual War" will be shown in Vander Vennet Theater in the Saint Mary's College Student Center at 7:00 
p.m. on Sunday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

,,. 



HIGH 57 HIGH 48 LOW 40 LOW 43 


..... 
<C 
(,) 

.... 0 HIGH 58 HIGH 49 HIGH 53 HIGH 55 LOW 37 LOW 34 LOW 32 LOW 33 
Atlanta 80 I 58 Boston 55 I 40 Chicago 58 I 38 Denver 63 I 36 Houston 84 I 66 Los Angeles 73 1 56 Minneapolis 62 I 44 New York 66 I 45 Philadelphia 67 I 44 Phoenix 89 I 62 Seattle 68 I 46 St. Louis 69 I 55 Tampa 84 1 64 Washington 70 I 48 
Thursday, April 21, 2005 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC praises student and alu111na for service 
400 gather at fundraiser to honor contributions 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's junior Ginger Francis and elass of IIJ69 alum­na Kathy Malone Beeler were honorc~d for· their service work within tlw local community at Lhl' "Down the Avenue" fundrais­(~r IWe'nt Wednesday nvnning. 
llnld in the nnw Student C1•ntnr. tlw black tiP dinner and rerl'rnony drew roughly 400 guPsts. Board of Trustees and clOZPIIS of prorninl'llt COillmUllity lllPIIll>Prs. inrludirrg South Berrd Mayor Ste•ven1 l.uec:ke~ and I st SourrP Corporation rhair Chris Murphy, joirwd Saint Mary's fac­ulty arrd alumrHw in n~lebrating thl' achil'venwnts of thn two 
WOilll'll. 
Tho nvnnt raised $100,000 to bl' divided botwnen thn Saint Mary's Office for Civic and Social PngagPnwnt and a gerwral schol­arship fund. 
Francis is the president of the Campus Alliance for Hape I·: Ii111 inali o11 a 11 d hnad e d tlw "Takn Bark tlw Night" marches against sexual violence in the fall. TlH' psychology major and worrH'll's studies minor has also work1·d as a crisis specialist for S«'xual Abuse• Services at rvtadison ce~ntc~r and llospital and voluntl'l'rl'd at thn YWCA's \Vonwn's Slwlte•r. 
S(•V!'ral faculty nwmbnrs rwmi­nated Francis as the Saint Mary's honoree last fall. 
"There are a couple faculty members that I am really close to but I didn't really know that the community as a whole knew Iabout the service work] because I did it all on my own time," Francis said. "I feel honored, excited, joyful." 
Beeler, who chaired the inau­gural "Down the Avenue" two years ago, called the evening a great opportunity to introduce the community to the College. 
"The concept was born out uf a desin~ on the part of Saint Mary's people~. administrators and alurnnan, to share with the greater South Bend community the jnwel that Saint Mary's is," Beeler said. 
Beeler has been a life-long vol­unteer in the Michiana area working and raising money for such groups as Logan Center. 
"First of' all I feel as though I'm not worthy," Beeler said. She then called herself a "represen­tative of the thousands of Saint Mary's graduates" who return to their own communities and try to improve them. 
"I am who I am because of Saint Mary's," Beeler said. "All that I have been able to do has been because of the sisters of the I loly Cross and because of Saint Mary's." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
Seniors flock for Cubs tickets 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 

As a rule, Notre Dame stu­dents do not reminisce fondly about their early morning treks to Stepan Center. Tuesday, how­ever, a portion of' the senior class turned this trend around when they rose with the sun to pick up not another departmen­tal exam, but a Chicago Cubs ticket or two. Not to be eclipsed, a few seniors even spent the night. 
By far the most sought-after Senior Week event, the Cubs game sparked so mueh interest among the senior class that the online venue ND Marketplace was overwhelmed by the quan­tity of' prospectiv1~ tiekc~t buyers, leading to the University servnr crash of'April 12. 
According to Beth Duran, a member of' the Senior Week Committee and one of two stu­dents in charge of' Cubs ticket distribution. the Senior Class Council responded to the server crash by holding a three-hour meeting in which members dis­cussed the options for a response. 
"We found out there was a way to have a list of 780 pre­approved names to purchase the tickel'i online," Duran said, adding that this list would pre­vent the need for seniors to rush. 
So the eommittee devised a way to come up with this list of' names. 
"I didn't want to do a lottery bncause it's not fair to people who really want the tiekets," Duran said. "We decided to dis­tribute wristbands for each tick­et to whoever showed up first." 
When Duran arrived at the Stepan Center at 6 a.m. to begin wristband distribution, the line of students already wrapped around the building. Most stu­dents who arrived befbre 8 a.m. received wristbands. 
"It was funny, I gave out the ?80th bracelet to a person who just showed up at eight," Duran said. 
A small band of seniors dccid­ed to take no chances with their tickets, choosing instead to spend the night camped outside of Stepan. 
"I did it with a group of six of my friends and about 10 other seniors," Sarah Batr.s said. "''m interested in attending tlw game, but the campout was more for the~ rxpe•rience. We~ knew we could probably wak!' up at 6 a.m. and get tickeb." 
"We got there around 12:45 a.m.," Bates said. "It wa.'> a real­ly fun experience. We sat around and played whillleball, ran around campus and made a Heckers run." 
Seniors responded positively to the revised system. 
"This morning, every senior I talked to after tlwy got tickets reserved was pretty impressed with how quickly the lines went," senior class president Darrell Scott said. 
"The process itself was smooth," Bates said. "The sen­iors on council did a good job of controlling the lines, and they gave us bagels and doughnuts. Everyone was resp!'l:tf'ul while they were waiting in line." 
This year's Senior Class Council took steps to increase seniors' chances of snagging a Cubs tieket. 
"This is the first year ever that we were able to get more than 650 tickets," Scott said. "We were able to purch<L'i!l 850 tickets." 
Scott estimated that approxi­mately half of the senior class had interest in buying a Cubs ticket. 
"Demand is still higher than supply, but thankfully we were able to come dose to matching demand," he said. 
Even those seniors who were unsuccessful in their quest for Cubs tickets still praised the Senior Class Council's reactions. 
"I was disappointed," said Jackie Dammann. "Tiw Cubs tickPL'i are what I n•ally want1~d. but I will probably be• rc•gistPr­ing for the other ewnts as well. I really appreciated Itlw coun­cil's I ideas to try to make the process fair for everyone by avoiding the lines. They han­dled it really well wlwn it didn't work out the first time by com­municating with us right away." 
Scott expressed appreciation for seniors' patience. 
"I want to thank the seniors for sticking through this and coming this morning," he said. "It's going to be a great last week." 
Hegistration for the rest of' Senior Week evenl'i, induding a danee and a trip to Cedar Point, will take place online in tlw corning days. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle1@rid.cdu 

Thursday, April 21, 2005 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
STUDENT SENATE 



Members discuss basketball tickets, future of Copy Shop 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
Controversy surrounding the basketball ticketing system pro­voked debate at Student Senate's Wednesday night meeting, which also heard discussion on the Copy Shop. 
Student body vice president Lizzi Shappell said she met with Josh Berlo in Basketball Operations to ask about the possi­bility of changing the ticket options available to students, including a split-ticket system designed to increase attendance. 
However, Shappell said Berlo dismissed the idea almost immedi­ately, citing men's basketball coach Mike Brey's disapproval. 
"Coach Brey doesn't like that idea -he wants one united fan base," Shappell said. 
Last year, Shappell said student government representatives met with Berlo to request that more basketball student tickets be sold to students. The deal, Shappell said, was that if student atten­dance increased, Basketball Operations would consider selling more tickets. 
But attendance numbers this year "were comparable with, if not worse than last year's," Shappell said. 
This year, the average game attendance was between 1 ,400 and 1,500 students, about half of the 2,800 undergraduate tickets sold. 
One change thatwill occur next year is the inclusion of Ticket Share information in the letters there is a disclaimer on tickets Shappell said Basketball given to students who purchase saying Notre Dame is not respon­Operations expected a renovation tickets, Shappell said. sible for any injuries. of the Joyce Center "in the next 

Student body president Dave Dillon senator Dan Brown pro­few years," which could lead to Baron explained Ticket Share, a posed an incentives program changing student seating at free ticket-swapping program cur­where students with a certain games. rently organized through the attendance level would be guaran­"Coach Brey is pushing for the dorms. Last year, big posters with teed to get tickets next year, while 'Duke style'-he's very adamant "give" and "take" columns were those under a specified atten­about getting students as close to hung in the dorms, Baron said, dance level would be the court as pos­resulting in "modest success -suspended from next sible," Shappell nothing outstanding." year's purchasing "So much ofNotre said. 
Shappell noted two other process. Dame is about University changes regarding pricing and Alumni senator Affairs commit­
unity. The Shirt 
purchasing. Due to inflation, ticket Andrew Beatty tee chair Matt prices will increase across the agreed with Brown. hopes to do that. " Walsh explained board, going up to $60 for stu­"Something like the possibility of dents -although Berlo empha­that really seems to Katie Fox the Copy Shop sized it was still the cheapest work getting atten­
president of The Shirt closing, although 
undergraduate student ticket dance at lesser he admitted he found at schools with competitive games," he said. did not fully basketball teams. While Siegfried senator Ben understand the situation since he 
While the ticket purchasing time Gunty said he felt "split ticketing hasn't officially met with manager will not change -either a isn't going to do anything," Baron Terri Teeple yet. Thesday or Thursday at 7 a.m. -stood behind the idea. "She [Teeple] would like a letter each student ID will only be able "With split ticketing, you're from us getting student body sup­to purchase spreading it out port for keeping the Copy Shop in four tickets as so more people LaFortune," Walsh said. "She's opposed to this "Coach Brey is pushing are available to scared they might get kicked out." year's six. for the 'Duke style'­go," Baron said. When questioned about the 
Shappell "There should be Copy Shop potentially closing,
he's very adamant about
said she asked something in the Walsh said Teeple was evasive. Berlo about getting students as close middle, not all in "She was hesitant to tell me," he Ietting stu­to the court as possible. " or all out." said. "I don't really know the full dents without O'Neill senator story behind it." tickets come to Steve Tortorello Walsh said he supported writing games on a Lizzi Shappell also supported a a letter on behalf of the Copy Shop "late arrival" student body vice president split ticket pack­due to its low prices, convenience, 
basis, at a des­age. network capabilities and experi­ignated time "Your diehard ence. midway through the first half, if fans are going to be the flrst ones "They've been here for 20 years student seats were still vacant. there anyway [to get the full ticket -they know what they're doing," 
"However, General Counsel package], and they're going to go Walsh said. would probably have a problem to all the games," he said. "I don't Although most senators sup­with this," Shappell said, since see the problem." ported helping the Copy Shop, many said they felt students were unaware of its existence and that alternatives should be explored. 
"We need to look into all options," Keough senator Rob Lindley said. "We need to do what's best"for the student body." 
Zahm senator Patrick Knapp suggested that Walsh ask Teeple about allowing students to use their printing money at the Copy Shop. 
In other Senate news: 

+A resolution was passed sup­porting the sending of a letter to Vice President for Student Affairs Mark Poorman, inviting him to an Aug. 31, 2005 Senate meeting and reception afterwards in the Student Government Office. 
"It's sort of an opening of our doors to [Student Affairs]." Baron said. 
+ Katie Fox, president of The Shirt. assumed the podium at the beginning of the meeting to talk about the unveiling of The Shirt 2005 this Friday at noon at Hammes Bookstore. encouraging senators to come and tell their dorm constituencies. 
"So much of Notre Dame is about unity," Fox said. "The Shirt hopes to do that." 
The Shirt will be on sale for $11, with half of the proceeds going to Student Activities and the other half going to charity. Irish head football coach Charlie Weis will speak, and free food will be ofl"ered. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION
Thursday, April 21, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
More than 50 bodies found in river 
BAGHDAD. Iraq -Iraq's interim president 

announced Wednesday the recovery of more 
than ~0 bo~ies from the Tigris Hiver, saying 
tho gnsly d1scovery was proof of claims that 
downs were abducted from an area south of 
t.he capital despite a fruitlnss search by Iraqi 
fon:es. Northwest of Baghdad, witnesses said 19 bull.t~t-riddlml bodies wnre found slumped agamst a bloodstained wall in a soccer stadi­tllll in I laditha. The discoveries came as insurgents unleashed a string of attacks that killed at least nine Iraqis and wounded 21. They included four suicide car bombs-one of which., targeted intorim Prime Minister Ayad Allaw1 s convoy -and a roadside explosion in the capital. police said. Allawi escaped unharmed, they said. 
Em~~ttl~d president is replaced 
QUI! 0, l:cuador -Lawmakers in Ecuador voted Wednesday to remove embattled !'resident Lucio Gutierrez from ollice after a w.nrk of escalating street protests demanding h1s ouster. and they swore in Vice President Alfredo Palacio to replace him. 
An unidentified army ollicial in combat gear said on television that Gutierrez and his wife, Congresswoman Ximena Bohorquez, had left the presidential palace. An Associated Press photographer saw a small helicopter land brielly on the palace roof and a figure climb aboard. Panama's Ambassador Mateo Castillm:o denied reports that Gutierrez had sought political asylum in Panama. 
Anti-Gutinrrez protests have been building for a week and late Tuesday night 30,000 demonstrators marched on the palace, dcmanding Gutierrez's ouster. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Senate votes to keep aircraft fleet 
WASIIINGTON -The Senate voted Wednesday to block the Pentagon's plans to scrap one of the country's 12 aircraft carri­ers. ke«~ping the fleet intact -at least for now. Approved on a 58-:38 vote, the provi­sion was included as an amendment to the Senate's nearly $81 billion bill for wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
The llouse did not include the plan in its version of the war-spending legislation passed last month. That means senators and represnntativt~s will have to settle their differnnces when they write the final bill. 
The Pentagon says it needs the money by the beginning of May to pay for combat and reconstruction in Iraq and Afghanistan. 

Father requests military investigation 
FOHT BHAGG, N.C. -The father of an Army sergeant accused of killing two officers at the start of the Iraq war urged the military Wcdnesday to investigate rcligious and racial harassment he said his son faced from fellow soliders before he unleashed the grenade and rifle attack. 
.John Akbar's statement to The Associated Press titled "Concerned Father Seeks Justice For Loved Son" came as testimony wrapped up in Sgt. Hasan Akbar's court-martial on murder charges that carry a possible death penalty. 
Jurors were to return today for closing arguments and the start of deliberations. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Saving-time compromise elusive 
INDIANAPOLIS-A compromise on leg­islation that seeks to move all of Indiana to daylight-saving time remained elusive Wednesday as a House-Senate conference committee failed to agree on a proposal that could advance in the Senate. 
Hepublican Sen. Marvin Hiegsecker of Goshen. the bill's primary sponsor in the Sen(\te. said if the four-member panel did not strike a deal Thursday he would ask GOP legislative leaders to name a new committee that might forge a compromise. 
Co1\1P1 uo FROM THE OBsERVER's w1 RE SERVICES 
page 5 



Benedict XVI states his mission 
New pontiffexpresses desire to workfor Christian unity, reach out to other religions 
Associated Press 

VATICAN CITY-Charting a papacy in the tradition of his predecessor, Pope Benedict XVI pledged Wednesday to work for unity among Christians and to seek "an open and sincere dialogue" with other faiths. 
In his first Mass as pontiff, Benedict invoked the words of John Paul II -"Be not afraid" -a message designed to show he is intent on following the ground­breaking path of the late pope. 
The German-born pontiff also stressed he would draw on the work of the Second Vatican 'Council, the 1962-65 meeting that modernized the church, an issue important to liberals who are wary of Benedict from his time as Homan Catholicism's doctri­nal enforcer. 
As the world's 1.1 billion Catholics got the first hints of where the papacy is headed, followers of other religions weighed its meaning for interfaith relations. By and large; reactions were hope­ful and expectant. 
"I think he has been very open, so I have no worries about the ecumenical route," said British Cardinal Cormac Murphy-O'Connor. "It will continue. No doubt at all." 
Benedict, the former Cardinal Joseph Hatzinger, said his primary task would 
be to try to reunify all sive road to salvation and Catholic wrongdoing over lennium after the east-west 
Christians and stressed that angered Protestants, Jews, the centuries. He also was schism, but he was not able sentiment ~done was not Muslims and other non­praised for promoting inter­to arrange the trip. enough. "Concrete acts that Christians. faitn dialogue, establishing "We very much hope that enter souls and move con­In Israel, admiration for diplomatic relations with under the new pope those 
sciences are needed," he John Paul's tireless efforts to Israel and aiding Polish Jews problems will be solved," said. promote Jewish-Catholic during the Nazi era. said Igor Vyzhanov, an 
The 78-year-old pontiff reconciliation mixed with "Israel can certainly coex­Orthodox church said he wanted to continue unease about Benedict's ist with him," Oded Ben-Jior, spokesman. "an open and sincere dia­time in the Hitler Youth as a Israel's ambassador to the But Hussian religion logue" with other religions teenager. Vatican, said of the new expert Alexander and would do everything in Benedict has written about pope. "But the real test will Ogorodnikov questioned his power to improve the his service, which was com­come over the course of whether Benedict will match ecumenical cause. pulsory under the Nazi time." John Paul's zeal for closer 
But Benedict has been one regime. He also was drafted Benedict inherits some­ties. 1\s a cardinal, Hatzinger of the most forceful Vatican into a German anti-aircraft times testy relations with the soured relations with the voices for Catholic mission­unit at the end of World War Hussian Orthodox Church, Hussian Patriarchate by ary work and other forms of II, though he says he never which has accused Catholics backing a move to stop evangelization. lie was the fired a shot. of poaching Orthodox believ­referring to the Orthodox intellectual drive behind the John Paul won many ers. John Paul, the first branch of Christianity as a 2000 document "Dominus Israeli hearts during a trip to Slavic pope, saw a visit to "sister church" -since Jesus." which outlined the the Holy Land in 2000 by Hussia as a way to promote Homan Catholics see Home Catholic Church as an exclu-apologizing for Homan greater Christian unity a mil-as the "mother" church. 

Bush signs new bankruptcy law 
the rest of society ends up paying help make credit more affordable 
Associated Press 

them." because when bankruptcy is less com­Many people in debt will have to mon, credit can be extended to more 
WASHINGTON-President Bush work out repayment plans instead of people at better rates." signed a bill Wednesday that will make having their obligations erased in Those who fought against the legis­it harder for debt-ridden people to bankruptcy court, according to the lation said the change will hurt low­wipe clean their financial slates by law, which takes effect in six months. income working people, single moth­declaring bankruptcy. People with incomes above their ers, minorities and the elderly and will 
The legislation was strongly opposed state's median income will have to pay remove a safety net for people who by consumer rights activists who said some or all of their credit-card have lost their jobs or face major med­it would prevent vulnerable Americans charges, medical bills and other obli­ical bills. from getting the fresh start they need. gations under a court-ordered bank­"The big winners under the new law But Bush said the law was "restoring ruptcy plan. will be the special interests that literal­integrity to the bankruptcy process." "This practical reform will help ly wrote it, particularly the credit card 
"Bankruptcy should always be a last ensure that debtors make a good-faith industry," said Travis B. Plunkett, leg­resort in our legal system," he said. "If effort to repay as much as they can islative director of the Consumer someone does not pay his or her debts, afford," Bush said. "This new law will Federation of America. 
Thursday, April 21, 2005

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Union 
continued from page 1 
the statement since student "gov­ernment" is not a sovereign enti­ty and cannot make laws. but he disagrees because the Student Union has great power. 
"Our ability to get anything meaningful done .is nothing more than our ability to unite the stu­dent body, to get us all going in the same direction, to mobilize 8,000 people," Baron said. "We're not government. We're Union." 
Baron said the Student Union's power lies in "our perseverance," "our proactiveness" and "our convictions." 
"Change takes time." Baron said. "It's through continual pres­sure, year after year, Student Senate through Student Senate, that change does happen." 
He said this perseverance was apparent in the progress being made towards publishing Teacher Course Evaluations. 
Baron then discussed the importance of "proactiveness." 
"Big questions are made every day at the University, and we need to make sure we get our voice heard. We must be proac­tive in advancing our interests." 
Demonstrating proactiv.e 

Degrees 
continued from page 1 
known lawyer who was active in the civil rights movement and has argued 40 cases before the Supreme Court, including Brown v. Board of Education, will receive a doctorate of laws. 
Joseph Keller, a well-known mathematician who has con­tributed significantly to the world of engineering and sci­ence, will receive a doctorate of science. 
Sonia Manzano, a writer, pro­ducer and actress who played Maria on "Sesame Street" for over 30 years, will receive a doctorate of laws. 
James Morris. executive director of the United Nations World Food Program, the world's largest food aid organi­zation. will receive a doctorate of laws. 
Anne Mulcahy, the CEO and chair of the board of Xerox, behavior, Baron said he planned to write a "comprehensive report" regarding a possible new and expanded student center, an idea that surfaced in Notre Dame's most recent ten-year plan and in the Future of Residence Life and Housing Report. 

Baron also said he would stand by his convictions as student body president. 
"The Student Union has power in 'our convictions' and the strengths of our arguments." Baron said. "Change will come if we can show that what we believe is right." 
As a personal example. Baron said he fully supports "official recognition of a student group, like United in Diversity. designed to be a network of support for homosexual students as well as a bridge of the homosexual and heterosexual students at Notre Dame. 
"Church doctrine is clear in its distinction between the homo­sexual act and the orientation, and we run a great danger in reducing one to the other," Baron said. "We need a student group that focuses not on changing doctrine, but support and dia­logue." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
will receive a doctor of laws. 
Steven Sample, president of the University of Southern California and well-known electrical engineer, will receive a doctorate of engineering. 
1979 graduate Dr. Carol Lally Shields, associate director of oncology at Wills Eye Hospital in Philadelphia who captained the Notre Dame women's bas­ketball team three times, will receive a doctorate of science. 
Dr. Joseph Walther, a deco­rated U.S. Army Air Force sur­geon in World War II who founded the non-profit research organization Walther Cancer Institute of Indianapolis, will receive a doc­torate of science. 
ln addition to the 13 hon­orary degrees, nearly 1,850 undergraduate degrees and over 550 advanced graduate degrees will be conferred at the 160th commencement ceremo­ny in the Joyce Center. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 


Debate 
continued from page 1 
Sophomore Katie Osmack was informed of the election of the new pope while in class when her theology professor received a call from a friend on his cell phone. She only had time to run to her room to drop off her books and grab her camera· before heading to St. Peter's Square. 
"When I got to the square I thought it was remarkable that the crowd became so silent in anticipation of the introduction of the new pop!l," Osmack said. 
DeShon found that while standing in the crowd, even the weather was omniscient of the day's events. 
"It was cloudy and sprinkling for several minutes before the new pope was announced, and moments before his introduc­tion the clouds broke and the sun emerged from behind the Basilica," DeShon said. 
German cardinal Joseph Ratzinger stepped out onto St. Peter's Basilica's balcony at 
6:48 p.m. and introduced him­self as Pope Benedict XVI. the new leader of the Catholic Church. lie then led the crowd gone with more of a moderate in a prayer and gave a general than a conservative." blessing to all those present. Saint Mary's sophomore 
The crowd welcomed him Allison Beyer felt similarly dis­with cheering and an overall appointed in the cardinals' sense of praise. However, some choice. students speculated he was not "I was focusing my prayers the best choice for the future on changes surrounding the of the Church. Some Catholics role of women in the church, desired a more liberal pope, or amongst other issues, so I am 
one  from  a  a bit disappoint­ 
Third  World  ed in the selec­ 
country.  in  "/feel that the new  tion," she said.  
hopes of further uniting Cath­olics across the world.  pope is going to be a transitional one because ofhis  "Nevertheless, I will remain hopeful and trust that the  
"I fool that the new pope is going to be a  conservative nature."  lloly Spirit will continue to work through  
transitional one  the  new  Holy  
because of his conservative nature," sopho­ Meaghan Herbst Saint Mary's sophomore  Father and thP body of the Church."  
more  Meaghan  Osmack  re­ 

llerbst said. "It would have mains optimistic about the been nice to have a pope from Church's future with Pope a Third World country because Benedict XVI. the Church needs change." "I am very much anticipating 
Sophomore Cathy Theiss was the role of Benedict XVI in the slightly more at ease with the Church," she said. "I do not idea of Ratzinger serving as know much about him, but I the new pope. am confident in the cardinals' 
"I am not surprised by tho decision in choosing the best cardinals' decision; he was the leader for the Church." logical choice in following Pope John Paul II," she said. "I do Contact Kelly Meehan at wish, however, that they had kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

Moussaoui ready to plead guilty 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The only person indicted in the United States in connection with the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks plans to plead guilty to charges that could bring him the death penalty, two federal officials said Wednesday. 
Zacarias Moussaoui, whose strange behavior throughout the drawn-out case raised 
Graduating in '06 or '07? 
questions about his mPntal competence, met Wednesday with U.S. District Judg~ Leonie Brinkema. /\fterward, Brinkema pronounced the French citizen fit to enter a plea to the six-count indict­ment and scheduled a hearing Friday in /\lexandria, Va. 
"The court finds that the defendant is fully competent to plead guilty to the indict­ment," Brinkema said in a brief order. 
The nu~rcurial Moussaoui still could changP his mind. which he did once bpforn. But if he follows through, it will mark the latest twist in a con­voluted -and sometimes bizarre -case during which Moussaoui has fought with and insulted the judge, his own lawyers and prosecutors but also has had some sur­prising legal victories. 

Embark on a Career Trek this summer before
d ~~, ' 

sneaks up on you. Career Treks will help you maste~ th job search. from targeting to networking to stayiiJ~i !n . 
Your job search will gain focus and an advantag~·~ver · 
< '•' 
classmates who stick to campus events: personal ... connections with recruiters and mentors that you won't meet at your career fair. 

: Presented By: Scheduled Recruiters: 
Capital One I Ferguson I FedEx Ground 

i :
.1). EJo~J?.~~~.~~.~E 
Enterprise Rent-a:Car I Corporate Executive Board 

j washingtonpost.com j 
Nationwide Insurance I Devon Health Services I NVR
' 

: t:l:\lt:ll• Cox Radio I Hajoca I Kellogg Brown & Root Services 
, ..,,.,.,. ...........Ilion. 

THE OBSERVER 
Thursday, April 21, 2005 






USINESS 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
jones 10,012.36 -115.05 
A 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 843 126 • 2,231,208,000 
AMEX 1,437.25 ~5.02 NASDAQ 1,913.76 +18.60 NYSf 
6,937.60 -93.14 S&PSOO 1,137.50 -15.28 NIKKfi(Tokyo) 11,088.58 
0.00 ffif IOO(London) 4,822.00 -33.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ)  -0.82  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0. 13  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -1.26  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  +0.06  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -0.84  

-0.286  34.704  
+0.03  22.66  
-0.31  24.32  
+0.01  17.19  
-0.10  II .78  


30-YEAR BOND  +0.66  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0. 19  
5-YEARNOTE  +0.23  
3-MONTH BILL  -1.40  
Commodities  

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) GOLD ($/Troy oz.) PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) 
+0.30 45.71 +0.08 42. II +0.09 38.54 -0.40 28.07 
+0.46 54.03 +2.30 436.70 -0.70 85.25 
Excha Rates 
YEN 
106.9200 
EURO 
0.7633 
POUND 
0.5209 
CANADIAN$ 
1.2396 
IN BRIEF 
Oil prices aren't the only ones on the rise 
W!\SIIINGTON -It isn't just gasoline prices that are pinching consumers' wallets. The cost of health care, clothing, hotel rooms and airline travel all jumped last month. pushing the core inllation rate up at the fastest pace in 2 1/2 years. 
The Labor Uepartmcnt reported Wednesday that its closely watched Consumer Price Index increased by 0.6 percent in March, the biggest rise since October. 

NYSE annouces plan to merge 
Archipelago Holdings Inc. will allow the stock exchange to have an electronic option 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -The 213­
year-old New York Stock 
Exchange vaulted into the 
top ranks of electronic 
stock trading Wednesday, 
announcing a merger with 
all-electronic rival 
Archipelago Holdings Inc. 
in a stunning move that 
will also transform the 
NYSE into a for-profit, 
publicly traded enterprise. 
The NYSE, famous around the world for its busy trading floor, says it has no intention of becom­ing an entirely computer­based exchange. Instead, by offering a fast electron­ic option alongside the slower but less volatile floor-based operation, the NYSE hopes to effectively compete with its chief U.S. rival, the Nasdaq Stock Market Inc., and tackle increasing global competi­tion. 
"This is an essential step to maintaining our global competitiveness and lead­ership," Thain said. "I believe that the cominba­tion of Archipelago and the New York Stock Exchange will be the leading securi­ties market in the United States and in the world." 
Still, the merger does move the NYSE in the direction of all-electronic trading. 
The NYSE's 1,366 seat holders, its current own­ers, will receive $400 mil­lion in cash and 70 percent of the shares in the new company, while Archipelago's shareholders will retain 30 percent of the shares, NYSE Chief Executive John Thain said at a news conference. 

Using the value of the NYSE's latest seat sale ­$1.62 million -as a guide, the NYSE is roughly valued at $2.2 billion. Archipelago is valued at $844 million using Wednesday's closing stock price. 

The new entity, a holding company to be called NYSE Group Inc., will spin off the NYSE's regulatory arm ­recently invigorated after coming under intense criti­cism for failing to stem a floor-trading scandal ­into a not-for-profit over­sight entity. That part of the deal answers the demands of some NYSE members who have been agitating for the exchange to turn for-profit in order to better compete as a business. 
"I think the regulatory structure we're proposing will be a model for other self-regulating agencies," Thain said. 
STUDENT INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS COUNCIL 

Members provide economic sector summaries 
Hdilor's Note: The Notre Dame Student International Business Council's Federal Open Market Committee meets weekly to dis­cw;s broad changes and events in the economy in different sectors and regions. This article repre­sents the group's most recent assessment of appropriate mone­tary policy. 
Most recent assessment of, our discussions have focused on infla­tion. while keeping an eye on the fluctuations of the dollar. The cur­rent federal funds rate rests at 

2.75 percent. We believe that the Federal Hcserve Bank's Federal Open Market Committee will raise the rate another 0.25 percent at il'i meeting in May in order to pre­vent hyperinllation. The following sector summarizations arc provid­ed by the student members of our group and provide a snapshot of the current status of the most­watched sectors in our economy lilr the beginning of the first quar­ll~r of 2005. The sector summaries provide readers with a condensed view of the current economy. 
Financial Services 
Companies such as H&R Block report high revenues from tax preparation. Bank of America Corp., the third-largest U.S. bank, said first-quarter earnings rose to a record 75 percent. Royal Bank of Canada, the country's largest bank by assets, said it will switch from U.S. to Canadian accounting rules to calculate financial results because the countries' standards have grown more similar. 
Labor Market, Wages and Prices 
The number of Americans seek­ing unemployment benefits for the first time fell by 10,000 last week, an improvement for the 22nd straight week, according to the Labor Department. Jobless claims have steadily gone down in the past few weeks. Prices went up last month by only .5 percent, according to predictions. However, overall wages do not seem to be increasing with prices, in part because the effect of oil prices on employers is affecting inflation. 
Agriculture & Natural Resources 

Oil prices have fallen in recent weeks, decreasing from the price of upwards of 50 dollars a barrel to about a 50 dollar plateau. Traders are weary to declare that the worst is over, but with supply increases due to Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Company [OPEC]'s rise in production and signs of a declining demand growth, prices are not expected to rise significantly in the near future. Energy prices as a whole are 30 percent higher than they were a year ago. These increases have caused farmers to pay more for petroleum and natural gas products, which in turn will hurt the agricultural community. After increasing by more than 10 per­cent in 2004, crop production income is projected to drop more than 15 percent in 2005 and crop prices are estimated to drop for the frrst time in a few years. 
Consumer Spending 

So far in the month of April, consumer confidence has report­edly slid to 88.7 percent from 92.6 in March. Analysts had forecast a more modest dip to 91.5 percent. Consumers feel less secure about the strength of the economy because gasoline prices are cur­rently soaring, reinforcing the concerns that economic growth is slowing. 
Construction 
Over the past quarter, residen­tial construction has experienced an overall high level of activity. Larger cities felt the majority of the effects with higher and health­ier conditions. The commercial construction market reported strewn increases. Cities and areas near Philadelphia, Cleveland and Richmond all experienced signifi­cant amplification in these mar­kets. Increased input costs have attributed the relatively mundane, incremental increases to the con­struction sector. Considerable increases in oil, steel and other raw materials are to blame. These increases affected commercial and high-volume builders the most. Despite the overall price increases, the construction mar­ket is expected to continue expan­
sion into the summer months, fol­lowing seasonal and yearly trends. 
Manufacturing 
The manufacturing industry slowed as whole in late March for the first time in six months due to higher commodities prices and slowing economic growth. Consumer spending also contin­ued to decline, due to fears of higher prices and growing infla­tion. Production in factories, espe­cially in automotive products, slowed as rising fuel costs caused import prices to jump. 
Tourism 
1\s summer approaches, sales in the tourism industry will begin to pick up. After a relatively solid spring break season. sales should be quiet until May. when summer tourism will begin to nourish. Within the United States, sales have been solid this year do to cheaper airfares. llowevcr. inter­national tourism has been rela­tively quiet due largely to terror­ism threats and the recent tsuna­mi disaster in 1\sia. 
Thursday, April 21, 2005 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Lead-ND 
continued from page 1 
a rally Saturday at South Bend's Jefferson Center. The event, planned entirely by the middle school leaders, served as a launching point for three major service projects organ­ized by the young students. At the prompting of Lead-ND members, many other unrelat­ed youth organizations throughout South Bend designed their own projects during the month of April, as well. 
"There has'n 't ever been a large city mobilization in South Bend," said Meg Towle, direc­tor of community outreach and partnerships at Lead-ND. "We had about 800 people partici­pating on Saturday. The kids were excited that something they planned had influenced other groups to create their own projects too." 
After the rally, 30 children officially joined in National Youth Service Day by complet­ing three different community service projects that they themselves had organized. One group, whose members named it "Happy to Help," took on beautification projects at Kelley and Coquillard parks by replacing missing basketball nets, planting trees and remov­ing graffiti. 
"As we worked in Kelley park, neighborhood children, intrigued by our actions, joined the project and helped us pick up trash and plant flowers," said Ben Zerante, a Lead-ND member who worked on the beautification process. "As one of the children in our group commented, 'We really are making a difference."' 
Another group, "Leaders 4 Life," organized a meal cam­paign program for the Center for the Homeless. In order to "earn" funds for their commu­nity service project, the young participants had to create pro­posals and present them to the Lead-ND members. Once fund­ing was secured from the club and other community business­es, the children put together 120 lunches for the homeless in an assembly line, including notes of encouragement. 
"Protected and Loved," the third student-led community service group, worked to fundraise for the 
ization. 

However, the goal of Lead­NO isn't just to perform com­munity service projects but to empower the children who organize them. Club members brought the participants on a variety of field trips, including a visit to the radio station 99.1 WSMK to record public service announcements, a question­and-answer session with South Bend's mayor, Stephen Luecke and a trip to Notre Dame's Office of Admissions. 
"We're trying to create pas­sionate leaders, concerned citi­zens and active students," Towle said. "Civic engagement is a big emphasis." 
Next fall. Lead-NO plans to 
broaden its reach 
Casie Center, an advocacy group for abused and  "We're trying to . create passionate  in order to train more young lead­ers. While the  
neglected  chil­ leaders, concerned  program only took  
dren. Using a wish list that the Casie Center pro­ citizens and active students."  place during the spring semester in its inaugural  
vided, the volun­ year, club organ­ 
teers purchased all of the items, dropped them off at the center and  Meg Towle Lead-NO director of community outreach  izers hope to expand it year­round, include more schools and  
spent  the  day  and partnerships  meet  with  the  

cleaning it to give the workers a break. . In order to complete the projects, the junior high school participants took part in a 10­week curriculum created by Lead-ND coordinators. Each week, the kids started with a large group activity that con­veyed a message, whether it Was how to work with others or the importance of network­ing. Then, small groups were formed where the Notre Dame mentors would guide the com­munity service projects' organ-

children twice a week instead of once. 
"I definitely feel that there need to be more programs like Lead-ND that are about more than just tutoring," Hardy said. "I think tutoring is very neces­sary, but if you can tutor a child and build a mentor rela­tionship, then that's very pow­erful. They can not only ask you about fractions, but they also have someone to talk to." 
Contact Jarrett Lantz at jlantz2@nd.edu 


Crowds 
continued from page 1 

For some, the announce­ment came during the middle of classes, prompting entire classrooms to empty at once. For others, the news hit while at home, or in computer clus­ters or on the streets. Wherever Notre Dame stu­dents were, however, they ran. 
The scene was sheer may­hem as thousands of pedestri­ans herded towards St. Peter's, oblivious to cars, bikes, traffic lights or fellow junior Caroline Murray said. "But once I got in, it was great to see the anticipation everywhere, especially how quickly the crowd quieted when the pope finally came." 
And come he did. At just before 7 p.m., the announce­ment came for the world to hear: habemus papam -"we have a pope." 
Within minutes, Pope Benedict XVI emerged amidst great applause and cheering and proceeded to thank the crowd and offer his papal blessing. 
"Standing there in St. Peter's for the pope's first 
blessing was a 
real honor." 

runners. junior Pete
"Standing there in 
Upon finally Murphy said.
St. Peter's for the
arriving in St. "To have had Peter's Square, pope's first this opportunity thousands stood is unforget­
blessing was 
in anticipation table." 
a real honor. " 
for almost an Most in the hour, waiting for crowd were the chance to Pete Murphy very familiar see the new with the chosen
abroad junior 
pope. 

Junior Erin Kruse described the mood among the crowd as "incredi­ble." 
"Being able to be there with other Notre Dame students, seeing everything, with the crowd going wild and the constant cheers, was unbe­lievable," she said. 
While awaiting the new pope's appearance, cheers of "Viva il papa" reflected the spirit of the event. The excite­ment was almost palpable. 
"When I got there it was right when they were closing off parts of the square and it was getting pretty crowded," 
pope, as 
Cardinal Rat­zinger the dean of the College of Cardinals -had been visible in the events sur­rounding the late Pope John Paul IJ's funeral. Junior Matt Stefanski said he believed the cardinals made a fitting choice. 
"They chose the right guy," he said. "I knew going into it that whoever was supposed to lead the Church would be chosen to lead the Church. It's been unbelievable to wit­ness this all." 
Contact Ricky McRoskey at rmcroske@nd.edu 


Thursday, April 21, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 9 


House to approve of oil drilling in Alaska 
A.sociated Press 
WAS! IIN(;TON -The !louse is snt to approve an energy bill that would opnn an Alaska wildlil't~ n~l'uge to oil drilling and providP billions of dollars in ben­«'fits to nnergy industrins, but critics say it dons littln to reducP Llw nation's thirst for oil. 
Tlw lt~gislation, nxpectnd to be votnd on by thP IIousn on Thursday, is certain to produce a confrontation with the Senate ovnr prot«~ction of the Alaska rnfugn and over a provision in the bill that would help makers of a water-polluting gasoline additive deflect environmental lawsuits. 
By a vote of 231-200, the I louse late Wednesday rejected an attmnpt to strip from the bill a section to allow oil drilling on the eoastal plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Hefuge in northeastern Alaska. The I louse has given the go-ahead for drilling there twice in the past four years, only sno the issue die in tlw Senato each time. 
Tho llousn bill also would shitdd thn makers of MTBE. a gasolirw additive that has promptnd dozens of lawsuits ovtll' drinking water contamina­tion, from dPI'«Ttivn product lia­bility rlaims. ThP issuP was blam(~d for scuttling Prwrgy leg­islation in thP Snnatn in 200:~. 
llousn Majority Leadnr Tom IlPLay, H-Tnxas, has insisted that thP MTilE liability waiver be inrludnd. arguing that the oil industry produced MTBE to help rnnet govt~rnnHmt-impost~d clean air rnquirernonts in tho I 990s, so Congrnss should protect the industry against what is expect­nd to lw an avalancho of law­suits that claim the product is <infective. 
Tlw "safn harbor" for MTBE rnaknrs will lt~ave communities and watPr districts around tho country ldt to pay cleanup bills, said Hep. Lois Capps, D-Calif. 
She said dozens of members of Congress represent districts where water agencies or com­munities have filed lawsuits that would be thwarted if the MTBE liability waiver bncame law. 
The bill calls for $8.1 billion in tax breaks ov~r 10 years, most of it going to promotn the coal, nuclear, oil and natural gas industries. In addition it would give reliners and oil companies $2 billion over eight years for shirting from making MTBE as the additive is phased out. It also calls for $2 billion over 10 years to fund research into oil and gas recovery in extremely deep areas of the Gulf of Mexico. 
DeLay, who has been fighting allegations of unethical conduct involving his travels and other issues, has been the primary force behind both the MTBE industry assistance and money for deep-water drilling research. 
"This is the majority leader's bill that we arc debating here today," Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi said during floor debate Wednnsday, alluding the DeLay. "It is clearly designed to help energy companies make more money." 
Development of the Alaska refuge has been a contentious issue for nearly a decade and is surn to be one again now that Llw I louse has includod it in its mwq.,ry agenda. 
Hnvironmentalists fear a spi­der web of' drilling platforms and pipelines would harm the area's polar bears, caribou, migrating birds and other wildlife. Senate Democrats have pledged to lilibuster any energy bill that would open the refuge to oil companies. 
Hep. Hichard Pombo, H-Calif., acknowledged that ANWH was "a very unique place" that deserves protection but argued that its oil can be developed using modern drilling tech­niques without harming the environment and wildlife. 

Ho-ward hosts fifth annual drive 
Students participate in bone marrow drive, offering hope for many 
By TRICIA DE GROOT 
News Writer 

When then-junior Howard resident Anne Gurucharri discovered in 2000 that her father Vince (class of 1967) had been diagnosed with myelodysplastic syndrome, a rare form of leukemia, she looked to the Notre Dame community for help. After learning of a bone marrow drive held the year before by Zahm Hall and the junior class for student Connor Murphy, Guracharri began Howard's own bone marrow drive. 
A few months after the drive, her father found a match for a bone marrow transplant that significantly prolonged his battle against cancer so that he was can search the registry for a possible donor. 
This year, the drive is being co-coordinated by Howard juniors Caitlin McGinty and Natalie Bennett. 
McGinty and Bennett arc both pre-med students, and their studies sparked their interest in helping out with thr. drive. 
''I'm impressed they could plan all of this among all of the stress in their lives, including the MCATs last Saturday," Howard rector Kathy Brannock said. 
McGinty, Bennett and oth­ers began planning for this year's drive last September, but the bulk of the work came this semester with setup, publicity, soliciting volunteers and taking care of the smaller details to ensure the drive's suc­
able to see cess.
"To have that chance 
his daughter "The Howard
to be a match is so
graduate the Bone Marrow following important, and this is Drive is just year. a real call to Notre one of many 
This year great events
Dame's campus."
m a r k s run by Notre Howard's fifth Dame students annual bone Kathy Brannock that has the marrow drive. possibility to
Howard rector 
Thn drive~. which takns place today between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. in the Dooley and Sorin rooms on the first l'loor of LaFortune, takes blood samples from willing stu­dents, faculty and employees and puts them in a compuL­erized registry with approxi­mately four million other potential donors. 
The drive does not require donors to go through the actual bone marrow dona­tion procedure. Rather, it puts their information in a registry so that persons in need of a transplant with no known compatible match have a monu­
mental impact on someone's life," McGinty said. "It is something I was proud and excited to be a part of." 
Hegistering to become a potential bone marrow donor usually costs $65, but the University has covered the costs. 
"Since we had such great success in registering candi­date donors on campus, we have been very fortunate to receive substantial funding from Notre Dame and dis­counte'd rates from Lil'eSource Blood Centers, who provide us with the 
technicians and supplies to physically conduct the drive," Bennett said. 
Last year the Howard drive registered 438 donors. Because it becomes difficult each year to register new donors, since many on cam­pus have already participat­ed, lloward is strongly encouraging the freshman class and ethnic minority students, who an~ currently underrepresented in tho reg­istry, to come out and partic­ipate. 
"Our goal is to have a record number of students, faculty and staf'f register this year. and in order to meet that goal we have tried to find new and innovative ways to get the word out to the Notre Dame community," McGinty said. 
Bennett, McGinty, and oth­ers have been advertising through posters, table tents and banners in the dining hall, mailings to students and a grassroots e-mail campaign. 
The coordinators also made it a point to clarify the purpose of the bone marrow drive and what is actually involved in registering. They wanted to make sure all stu­dents know that all that's required on the day of the drive is a simple blood sam­ple and paper work. Then, once registered, each poten­tial donor stays on the national registries list until the age of 61. 
"I really encourage every­one to come out and be reg­istered in this national reg­istry," Brannock said. "To have that chance to be a match is so important, and this is a real call to Notre Dame's campus." 
Contact Trisha de Groot at pdegroot@nd.eduu 






We've Moved 
-to Serve you Better! 
Your Saint Mary's Hanking C:entl'r lu~ lllOVl'd .111d is llO\\' 
open t(Jr business in the new Studellt Center, otl(:rillg you
N~ the convenience ofa full-service bank right on campus. 
0 
Our location may haw changed hut our stafY is the same­fi-iemlly, knowledgeable. and ready to provide you with the personal service you've come to expect ti-om Ist Sourcl'. 
Cush'Mt--lalghton 

Stop by our new location t()r the Gr;l!ld Opening Celebration on April 21st and be sure to enter our prize drawing. We look t()rward to ~ceing you thtTt'. 
Wll"ll)~l~ •,ell'tlt'd by lilii(YJI11 rhawlng 011 04 1)1 ror, No ~llrtll,he llet~ry IU ellll' Nwd IIUIIJ\' 
pr<?sent to wtn, Must be 18 \'t'~rs of Jgt> or older to ent<?r f:mPioyE'e<. of 1st Sourre Corpor,l!lon 1!'. 
subs1d1anes ar,d tllelf unrr.e(llate lanlllt<"S Jle not eligible 
hours 
M-F • 10-5 
.. 
Thursday, April21, 2005

page 10 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Investigators resign in 
U.N. corruption case 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATiONS -Two sen­ior investigators in the probe of corruption in the U.N. oil-for-food program have resigned because they believed a report that cleared Kofi Annan of meddling in the $64 billion operation was too soft on the secretary-general, a panel member confirmed Wednesday. 
The investigators felt the Independent Inquiry Committee, Jed by former U.S. Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker. played down findings critical of Annan when it released an inter­im report in late March related to his son, said Mark Pieth. one of three leaders of the committee. 
"You follow a trail and you want to see people pick it up," Pieth told The Associated Press, referring to the two top investiga­tors who left. The committee "told the story" that the investi­gators presented, "but we made different conclusions than they would have." 
The investigators were identi­fied as Robert Parton and Miranda Duncan. 
Parton, as the senior investiga­tive counsel for oil-for-food, had a wide purview. He was responsi­ble for investigations into the procurement of companies under the oil-for-food program and he was the lead investigator on issues pertaining to allegations of impropriety relating to the secre­tary-general and his son Kojo Annan. Duncan worked on Parton's team. 
Parton. a lawyer and former FBI agent who has worked on a hostage-rescue team abroad. confirmed to Associated Press on Wednesday that he resigned a week ago, but he declined further comment. 
Duncan did not respond to tele­phone and e-mail messages left at the Rockefeller Family Fund, where she is a member of the board. She is a granddaughter of billionaire David Rockefeller. 
The committee's interim report last month faulted Annan's man­agement of the oil-for-food pro­gram, which was set up to help ordinary Iraqis cope with crip­pling U.N. sanctions imposed on Saddam Hussein's regime after 
G-reat Food! 
his 1990 invasion of Kuwait. 
The report also said Annan didn't properly investigate possi­ble conflicts of interest surround­ing a U.N. contract awarded to the Swiss employer of Kojo Annan. The investigators criti­cized Kofi Annan for refusing to push his top advisers further after they conducted a hasty, 24­hour investigation relating to his son and found nothing wrong. 
But the interim report cleared the secretary-general of trying to influence the awarding of the $10 million-a-year Swiss contract and said he didn't violate U.N. rules. 
Annan said the report exoner­ated him -something Pieth denied at the time -and the sec­retary-general said he had no plans to resign. The investigation into Kojo Annan continues. Volcker has promised to deliver a final oil-for-food investigation report in mid-summer. 
The oil-for-food scandal has been among a series of problems that have plagued the United Nations in recent months. U.N. peacekeepers have also been accused of sexual misconduct in Congo and other missions, while the former U.N. refugee chief was accused of sexual harass­ment. 
Annan's spokesman Fred Eckhard said the resignations were an internal committee mat­ter and refused to comment. U.N. officials have repeatedly said the report speaks for itself. 
A spokeswoman at Volcker's committee, who would speak only on condition of anonymity, said the resignations came after the investigators had completed the work they signed on to do. 
Pieth acknowledged disagree­ments within the committee about how to interpret the evi­dence on Annan, but he denied investigators were censored. He also praised the work of Duncan and Parton. 
"I have high esteem for both Robert and Miranda," Pieth said. "It's not a bad parting. I think they are very capable people." 
Pieth added, however, that he believed the two investigators got "personally very involved" in the probe and so grew upset. "Again, this is the nature of things," he said. 

G-reat Fut1! 

WELCOME ALL JLUE ANU O.OLU FANS! 
#] Sports ~ar itt South ~ettd 2046 South ~ettd Ave -Across frotM Martitts Plaza 272-1766 
fues: COLLE(}[ NI(}HT ~ UJ 6-SPECIALS (STA!tTIN(} AT $1,00) Wed: Live fRIVIA Night ~ ~rittg your teaitts ~ Prizes fhurs: UJ ~ Pet1t1Y Night ~ 1~ Specials startittg at 9PM 
MUST ~E 21 ~ NEVE!t ACOVE!t WITH ASTUUENT IU 
MEXICO 



Mayor faces trial for pow-er abuse 
Leader stripped of immunity, charged with mishandling authority 
Associated Press 

MEXICO CITY -Prosecutors charged Mexico City's popular leftist mayor with abuse of authority Wednesday, moving closer to a criminal trial that could knock him out of the 2006 presidential race. 
Prosecutors formally asked a court to issue an arrest warrant for Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador. The court has 10 days to comply or dismiss the charges. 
On April 7, Congress voted to strip Lopez Obrador of the immunity from prosecution he enjoyed as a public servant, which cleared the way for Wednesday's charges. 
Authorities allege the mayor ignored a court order in an obscure land expropriation case. Lopez Obrador claims the charges were fabricated by his political enemies to keep him out of next year's race, which he leads in all public-opinion polls. 
Lopez Obrador was traveling in his home state of Tabasco, in 
· southeastern Mexico, when the news broke, and was expected to issue a statement later Wednesday. He has pledged to fight the charges from jail, refuse bail, and act as his own lawyer in the case. 
Wednesday's move by prose­cutors marks the beginning of the end of a nearly two-week state of limbo during which authorities also insisted that Congress' action effectively barred Lopez Obrador from carrying out his duties as mayor in this city of 8.5 million. Lopez Obrador debated that interpretation of the law. but stayed away from his office to avoid additional problems. 
The mayor's supporters have held nearly daily protests since the congressional vote, hound­ing President Vicente Fox at his public appearances and setting up a protest camp outside his ollicial residence. 
Federal prosecutors -who initially appeared in no hurry to charge Lopez Obrador -may have been spurred to quicker action by the prospect of con­tinued demonstrations, and suggestions from some Fox administration officials that a deal might be struck with the mayor. 
The case file -comprising 18,000 pages -was delivered to a federal district court based at the Eastern Penitentiary on the edge of Mexico City. 
A Fox spokesman had prom­ised earlier in the day that fed­eral prosecutors would move "soon" against the mayor. 



Bruno's Pizza
-lccept1ng Graduation Reservations 
2610 Prairie Ave.  • Student Buffet $5.99 all you can eat  
Soulh Bend, IN 46614  -pizza, pasta, salad  
514·288·3320  • Starts at 5:30, till 8:30  
• Tuesday and Thursday night  
• 14 T.V.s  
• Still accepting Graduation reservations  
AFamilY Tradition Since 1915  • Seating available 2 to 1 00  
• For on campus delivery phone 256-9000  


Please join us for another evening of Hindu centering prayer, 
Thursday, April 21, 2005 
330 Coleman-Morse 
7-7:45 p.m. 

.Experience another evening ifHindu prqyer and meditation as part cif·a series exploring the helif!_fr and practices ifthe world)s greatfaith tradition.r: 
"An Evening of Prayer from Around the World" 
5ponsored f?y: 

Campus Ministt:y InternationalSt11dent S erz'ices and /lctivities Indian Student As.rociation lVD Muslim StudentAs.rociation Graduate Student U 11ion 
Thursday, April 21, 2005 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page II 
Botnb plotter stops cooperating 
Ressam jeopardizes two national security cases, faces 35 years in prison 
Assm.:iatc-d Press 
SI\ATTI.E -An Algerian con­victed of plotting a millennium eve bombing at Los Angeles lnlPrnational Airpo_rt stopped coopnrating with federal inves­tigators, jeopardizing at least two easns "of vital interest to national security," the govern­nwnt said Wednesday. 
Ahmnd Hessam provided information on more than 100 potential terrorists in inter­vinws over two years, and fed­eral prosecutors and public defenders had agreed his sen­tence would be at least 27 ynars. 
In a sentencing memorandum lih•d W1~dnesday. however, fed­eral prosecutors recommended a :l;i-ypar term because Hnssam stoppPd cooperating in 2003,. "lm~arhing his agrnenwnt and PITPctivnly terminating at least two criminal cases of vital intPrnst to national sncurity." 
IIP'Illw Sl'nti'IH:ed April 27 by 
U.S. District .Judge .John CoughPnour, who has described tlw information Hessam provid­Pd as "startlingly helpful." 
l;ndl'ral public dnfenders rep­rl'st•nting Hessarn did not imnwdiatnly return a call for comnwnt. 
In Decembnr 1999. Hessam was caught smuggling a car trunkload of bomb-making materials into the United States from Canada through Port Angeles, about 120 miles north­west of Seattle. 
The explosives "would have killed and maimed hundreds of innocent people," prosecutors said in the sentencing memo­randum. 
lie was convicted in April 2001 of terrorist conspiracy and other charges, and faced up· to 130 years in prison. lie agreed to cooperate with the J usticc Department. 
Up until April 2003, Ressam spent more than 200 hours speaking with authorities about terrorist nntworks -and 65 hours testifying during deposi­tions or trials, his lawyers wrote last week in documents outlining Bnssam's cooperation. 
Among tlw topics he covered wore training camps in Afghanistan, terrorist recruit­nwnt, training, cell locations, general targets, the ideology of tlw movements, weapons and tnehnology, explosives making, chnmicals used in constructing nxplosivns and the usc of safe houses. Much of the informa­tion remains secret. 
By early 2003, however. Ressam began to wear down, showing the effects of two years of interrogations and three years of solitary confinement that included "vicious verbal harassment" and a physical assault by a prison guard at a detention facility shortly after Sept. 11, 2001, according to his lawyers. 
According to a defense memo, meetings became less frequent and less productive, and then were called off as Hessam sought to regain his health. 
The lawyers have said Ressam 's current condition does not diminish his past help and he is still willing to testify if called. 
Rcssam's testimony helped convict Mokhtar llaouari of supplying fake identirication and cash for the millennium bomb plot. llaouari was sen­tenced in New York to 24 years in prison. 
Hessam also provided infor­mation· about. two othc r sus­pects in the miltennium bomb plot. llaydar Abu Doha, an Algerian national, is in British custody awaiting extradition to the United States. Samir Ait Mohamed awaits extradition from Canada. 


Connecticut votes to accept gay marriage 
Associated Press 
HAHTFOHD, Conn. Connecticut on Wednesday became the second state to offer civil unions to gay couples ­and the first to do so without being forced by the courts. 
About an hour after the state Senate sent her the legislation, Hepublican Gov. M. Jodi Hell signed into law a bill that will afford same-sex couples in Connecticut many of the rights and privileges of married cou­ples. 
"The vote we cast today will reverberate around the country and it will send a wave of hope to many people, to thousands of people across the country," said Sen. Andrew McDonald. who is gay. 
The state House passed the measure last week but amended it to define marriage under Connecticut law as between onn man and one woman. The Senate approved the amended bill Wednesday 26-8. The law takes effect Oct. 1. 
"I have said all along that I believe in no discrimination of any kind and I think that this bill accomplishes that, while at the same time preserving the tradi­tiona! language that a nmrriaw~ is between a man and a woman," Hell said. 
Vermont is the only other state to allow civil unions. Massachusetts allows gay cou­ples to marry. But those changes came about after same-sex cou­ples won court battles. 
Last summer, seven same-sex couples sued in Connecticut after being denied marriage licenses; the case has not been resolved. 
Homan Catholics and pro­marriage activists plan a big rally Sunday in opposition to the bill. 
Marie llilliard, executive direc­tor of the Connecticut Catholic Conference, said the civil union proposal "got morn legs than we ever hoped it would get." About 44 perc<mt of the state's :{ mil­lion residents are Boman Catholic. 
Brian Brown, lwad ol' tlw Family Institute of Connecticut, said his group intends to k1~ep the isstw squarely bPI'ore the public. 
"Our mission will be to let every person know in the stat<~ of Connecticut which lawmak1~rs voted to rmlcline marriage, and which lawmakers voted to pro­tect marriage," he said. 

Free trade agreelllent to be argued 
Opponents claim enough votes to kill the deal, supporters fight back 

A.,.ociatcd Press process hasn't really started." ing U.S. trade deficit following 
H<~p. Kevin Brady, H-Texas. past trade deals such as the 

W/\SIIIN<;TON-OpponPnts tlw GOP's point man on the bill, NAFTA agreement with Canada of a fl'l~l' tradl' agrnnml'nt with also discounted Brown's num­and Mexico, and say the agree­six CPntral Amnrican and bnrs. "At the end of the day. ment would benefit internation­Caribbean countries said when the facts get known, we'll al corporations at the expense WPdnnsday thny havn tlw votes get the votes." of poor subsistence farmers in to killthn dna! wlwn it comes up Backers of the trade agree­Central America. They also say for a llouse votn. Supporters ment with Costa Hica. the the pact's labor and environ­dnclarnd tlwy havn just begun to Dominican Hepublic, El mental provisions are weak and light. Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras will lead to abuses. 
Bnp. Slwrrod Brown, D-Ohio, and Nicaragua, The sugar industry an opponent, said that if a vote say it would be has led the charge
"We know this is 

wnr<• hold now on the Central a big win for against the measure, Anwrican Free Trade American pro­going to be a tough saying imports from .1\grnnnwnt, 195 lkmocrats and ducers, with 80 fight." the six CAFTA mor1~ than hO Republicans percent of U.S. nations, while would reject it, well morn than exports of con­amounting to only
Robert Zoelllck

nnough to defeat the measure in sumer. industri­1.7 percent of U.S. thn 4:{5-nwmbnr I louse. al and farm Deputy Secretary of consumption after 
"If CAI·'TA wen~n't so wrong­goods becoming State 15 years, would set lwadnd and opposition to it so duty free imme­a dangerous prece­dnnp, Congress would have diately. dent. votPd on the bill shortly after They note that the agreement Montana's Hcpublican senator, tho prnsident signed it" last would be a boon for America's Conrad Burns. and its sole rep­May, Brown told a large anti­beleaguered textile industry resentative, Republican Dennis CAFTA gatlwring including bncause Central American tex­Rehberg, said it would destroy farm-stall' lawmaknrs from both tile factories, unlike those in their state's sugarbcet industry. partins. Ikmocrats with tins to China. use a large amount of Sen. Larry Craig, H-ldaho, said organized labor, and groups U.S. -produced yarn and fabric the agreement was "trading off rl'prnsPnting agricultun~. labor. in tlwir goods. one segment of our economy rl'ligious. human rights and But opponents point to the against another in the name of 
Pnvironnwntal intnrnsts. loss of American jobs and soar-free trade." 
llousP Hnpublican loaders, mPanwhiln. held a strategy mnPting with business groups, ambassadors and administra­tion ollicials-including Deputy Sncn~tary of State Hobert Zoelliek and Commerce S1~cretary Carlos Gutierrez -to discuss how thny are going to win the vote that the leadership says they would like to hold next month. 
"We know this is going to be a tough fight," said Zoellick, the former U.S. Trade Hepresentative. But he noted that opponents had predicted they would be able to kill past trade bills that eventually passed, including legislation giv­ing the president "fast track" rwgotiating authority. "This 
Attention Students! SUMMERWOR 
• 
Excellent Pay 

• 
Flexible schedules 

• 
Customer sales/service 

• 
No exp. needed-will train 

• 
fmmediate Openings 

• 
All ages 17+ 

• 
Conditions apply 


Apply Now, Start After Fina/.5! 
CALL 273-4878 

Undergraduate Fe mule of the Year Sara Gilloon-Cavanaugh Hall Carnie Campbell-Walsh Hall 
Racquel Ferrer-McGlinn Hall 
Grad/Fac/Staff Female of the Year Caitlin Johnson Kristy DiYittorio Catc Harmt,yer 
Undergraduate Male of the Year Mike Iselin-Keenan Hal Jon Kaup -Siegfried Hall 
Tim Fetter-Stanford Hall 
Grad!Fac./Staff Male of the Yl.'ar Angel Martin Doug Bartels 
Thomas Clark 

Game of the Year Knott vs. Keenan Knights (IH Footbal Finals) Keenan Knights vs. Dillon A I (lnterhall Basketball semifinals) Cavanaugh vs. Walsh (Women's Imerhall Football) 

Fans of the Year Question Marks CoRee Volleyball 
Team of the Year 

Cavanaugh Hall Keough Ice Hockey 
Dillon Hockey Keenan Football 
Farley Basketball 

Students Call Before · You Pack!!! Free delivery on boxes and supplies 

We also have supplies AI Main and McKinley Sell Storae• 707 F. McKinley Ave 




"iif 
Cheap boxes!!! As low as $1.00 
Tel: 574-256-5339 
Climate control, 24 hours e.cce:.s, video survcillonce, resident mllllagor, &reat rates ... 

Tl-IE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, April21, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
One church, one leader 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Nacre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 

AsS1: MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gi!loon 

SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gonumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
CONTROUER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS 0ESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.J@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S 0ESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLIN£ 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

Even with the election of Benedict XVI, it is difficult to put out of mind the sym­bolisms in the death of Pope John Paul 
II. He had canonized St. Faustina, a Polish nun to whom Christ had person­
ally committed the Charles Rice devotion to His Divine Mercy. John Paul died Right or on the vigil of Divine Wrong?Mercy Sunday, which he had established as a special day of grace. His funeral was swept by a wind reminiscent of Pentecost; it flipped over and closed the book of Gospels on his coffin. And so on. 
John Paul II himself had become a symbol -one of strength as well as sanctity. His human qualities brought him the love and respect of millions. He spoke directly, in person, to more people than anyone else in history. He will merit the title "John Paul the Great" not only for his impact on geopolitics and culture but because he was, above all, a holy pastor of souls and a teacher of Truth. 
In Benedict XVI, the Holy Spirit, we trust, has given us the pope we need. But a cautionary note may be in order: the human qualities of its leaders are not what ensure the survival of the Church. Benedict XVI will not have the "star" quality of John Paul II. But the Church will endure because Benedict will be the successor of Peter, the "Rock." 
John Paul II was not even in his grave before pundits were giving the unnamed new pope their orders: to survive, which means to win the approval of the main­stream media, the Church must drop its opposition to women's ordination, con­traception, homosexuality and abortion, for starters. 
Fat chance. 

Those are definitive teachings, not dis­ciplinary rules like Friday abstinence or clerical celibacy which could be changed at the will of the pope. 
In one of his last public statements, on Dec. 6, 2004, John Paul stressed to American bishops "the Church's binding obligation to remind the faithful of their duty in conscience to act in accordancP with her authoritative teaching." 
A teaching of the "authentic Magisterium ... upon a matter of faith or morals," even if not proclaimed "by definitive act," must be given "religious submission of intellect and will," requir­ing the faithful to "avoid whatever does not accord" with it. 
The usual Catholic critics, some in unfamiliar clerical collars, materialized on television after John Paul's death to warn the Church that it must change. 
But their day is passing, like an oil slick on a river. John Paul's appeal to youth reflects the reality of the future. That future belongs not to the dinosaurs left over from the 1960s, but to what The New York Times reported as the youthful "Generation John Paul II." 
It belongs to the culture of life as pre­sented in the social and moral teachings of the Church. John Paul gave the world, and especially its youth, a believable answer: that there is an objective moral standard. It is not a theory but a person. Jesus Christ, who is himself Truth with a capital "T." 
The "culture of death" sees the inten­tional infliction of death as an optional problem-solving technique. John Paul identified the error of that culture as the denial of both God and the capacity of reason to know objective moral truth. 
Thirteen days after 9/11, John Paul warned the Muslim people of Kazakhstan not to use the West as a model in rebuilding their country. The West, he said, suffers from a "spiritual and moral impoverishment" because of its "fatal attempt to secure the good of humanity by eliminating God, the Supreme Good." 
He saw that a democratic system without objective trvth is a suicide pact: "!Ill' there is no ultimate truth to guide ... political activity, then ideas ... can easily be manipulated for reasons of' power. As history demonstrates. a democracy without values easily turns into open or thinly disguised totalitarianism." 
John Paul II, however, was no pes­simist. The opening phrase of his pontif­icate, "Be not afraid!" was "an exhorta­tion," he later wrote, "to all people ... to conquer fear in the present world situa­tion ... Why should we have no fear? Because man has been redeemed by God .. . The power of Christ's Cross and Resurrection is greater than any evil which man could or should fear." (Crossing the Threshold of Hope, p. 218­19.) 
The pope who died as a new spring was emerging had assured us that "God is preparing a great springtime for Christianity." His coffin carried an imprint of a cross and the letter "M" for Mary. His motto was 'Totus Tuus," affirming his commitment to her to be "all yours." 
John Paul wrote that when Christ told the apostles and the women, '"Be not afraid!,' these words were not addressed to Mary. Strong in her faith, she had no fear ... Christ will conquer through her, because He wants the Church's victories now and in the future to be linked to her."(220-21 ). 
At the University of Our Lady, we ought to keep that in mind. And act accordingly. Habemus papam. Deo Gratias. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. 1/e can be contacted at plawecki.l@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are not necessarily those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Q~<"rtiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Claire Heininge>: 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Oh~4-rvg (USPS 59lJ l-40011) i~ publ~<:d Mond;1:y ~hro~.~gh Jirid;~.y ~~ dl.lring exam ,..HJ ~riun P"riodli. 1'1 suh~ripri<>n to The Ohli!!fvn iJ $1 no fur 0111-" :ati<~~lklni~; year; 555 for tmc ~mcm~r. 
The Ohu·rYer UpuhlhhL'l.i ;u; POSTMASTER 
fl24 ~outh Dimng Hall St'nd address corn'(:riolu w; 
Notre Dame, IN 46556..0779 The Ob:.crw.r 
!J,·riodir.1l j'l(lst.l{l4' p.tid. :u Notre Damt> 1~0. lktx 779 
o~nd addicinn.tl maihng otliccs. OH ,l)ou(h Dining Hall 

Notn: Dam,., IN 46556-U779 
The OhscrvL'1' is .llllt"mbcr uf th~· A~o,.'i.ttcJ Prc.-s~. All «proJur.:tion righu ar' n:wrvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Eileen Duffy Eric Retter Katie Laird Dan Tapetillo Jen Rawling Kate Seryak Viewpoint Scene Caroline Murphy Kenyatta Starin Graphics Illustrator Graham Ebetsch Katie Knorr 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY


Submit aLetter ~ 
What color should the 2005 
"To persevere, trusting in what 
"The Shirt" be? 

hopes he has, is courage in a man."

to the Editor at 
Euripides

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
Greek Playwright

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
\\\\fl~'. ndsmcobs·erler.com
' . . ~--· ~ 


THE ()BSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Thursday, April 21, 200'5 page 13 
Explaining humanistic studies 
U-WIRE 
New hope for a new pope 
Tho pope has incredible inlluence over millions of people world­
wide. including college students. USA Today recently reported that 
here in the United States, Homan Catholic students outnumber those 
of all other faiths. 
This being said. all the coverage surrounding the election of the 
new pop<~ is highly relevant to us collegiates. 
Much of the world was surprised by the choice of Staff Editorial 
(;erman Cardinal Joseph Hatzinger as Pope 
University of

Benedict XVI. for many believed a non-European 
Utah

and more liberal pope would be a more progres­
Daily Utah

sive. unifying move. 
Chronicle •

Although this did not occur, since Hatzinger is even more conservative than John Paul II. it does not necessarily mean Benedict XVI won't be etTective in reaching out to tlw world. 
If h«' walks in the footsteps of John Paul II. he may be a conserva­livt• leader. butlw will also maintain a global vision. 
Tlw last pope was a wonderful represtmtative of Christianity and an advocate of hope. lin reached out to countries across the world and encouraged leaders to choose peace and tolerance. 
The new pope has the opportunity to do the same. John Paul II set a great precedent of b!'ling a spokesman for world peace and human­itarian efforts. 
Younger than John Paul !I, the world should expect Benedict XVI to have renewed vitality in traveling the world and associating with world leaders. 
lie can cross religious divides and impact global opinion. No celobrity can rival his ability to speak out against atrocities and injustices and plead for humanitarian donations. 
llopefully, the new pope will take advantage of these opportunities and change the world for the better. 
Liberal-leaning faithful were dismayed by Tuesday's announce­nwnt, and Latin i\rnerican and i\frican nations were disappointed by Llw appointment of another European. But politics should take a backseat to religion. and true religion, the New Testament says, is !wiping the widowed and fatherless. 
Benedict XVI should reunite Catholies worldwide under a banner of charily. tolerance and peace. These values surpass the importance ideologies. 
If nothing else. maybe a German ear company-either Audi, BMW or Men:edes-will supply an even cooler "Pope-mobile." 
This column originally appeared in The !Jaily Utah Chronicle. the daily newspaper of the Unil'ersity of Utah. on llpril 20. The t'iews expressed in this coumn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsenwr. 
Nutrition an issue of national concern 

U.S. 
Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns admits few Amerieans follow the Food Guide Pyramid's recommendations. 

Yet, according to the Wall Street Journal, the 

U.S. 
Department of Agriculture paid $1.6 mil­lion to Porter Novelli. an international marketing­Staff Editorial based public relations firm. 


Northern

to develop a slogan, Web site 
Illinois

and educational materials 
University

for the redesigned Food 
Northern Star 

Guide Pyramid unveiled Tuesday. 
Did anyone at the USDA stop to ask how it might encourage Americans to conform to the guidPlim~s before it op1•ned taxpayers' check­books to pay for a splashy revamp? 
i\nd is the design meaningful or easy to understand? 
The new pyramid, dubbed "MyPyramid," fea­tures six different colored bands to signify the food groups. Hecommended intake for each food group is directly proportional to the width of eaeh band. . 
The pyramid still employs the ambiguous term 'servings.' What measuring cup in any household measures a serving? 
The USDA says serving recommendations depend on an individual's age, gender and daily activity level. The new pyramid's Web site, www.mypyramid.gov, allows Americans to per­sonalize USDA recommendations based on user input. 
Wonderful. In order to recommend something as basic as nutrition, Americans now must have a computer or. at the very least. access to one. 
Fast food and vending-machine cuisine are cheap and aceessible. The USDA has succeeded in making the Food Guide Pyramid anything but. 
I leal thy eating requires a little bit of planning and commitment. The USDi\ has taken a t;Lc;k that'is already somewhat daunting and made it tW«'n more so. 
Let's hop<~ tlw USDi\ doesn't takP anotlwr 13 years to redesign thP pyramid. But if it does. it should spend less money marketing it and put a little more thought into making it understand­able. 
This column originally appeared in The Northern Star, the daily newspaper ofNorthem Illinois University, on llpril20. 
The views expressed in this coumn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofTiw Observer. 
"\\'hat !•xaclly is 'humanistic studies?'" I have answpn•d this qunstion a countless numbPr of times whPnPVPr sonworw asks nw what my major is. It is not that I mind answPrir~g. but I wish to explain nxactly what this major entails for thosn of you out there­likPly tl11• majority-who havpn't till' slightPst idPa about what human-Molly Acker istir studiPs is about. 
l'irst. I must admit that this major Nobody Ukes 11 is uniquP to Saint Mary's, which may IJumb Hlonde Pxplain tl11• air of mystPry surround­ing it. Tlw program is much likP humanitiPs programs at ollwr schools-it wPaws togPllwr history, litera­tun•. tl11•ology. philosophy and art to giw students a mon· rompldt' urHlPrstand ing and apprPciation for \\'PstPrn rulturP. Additionally. tlwn· is a strong Pmpha­sis placPd on Christianity's dynamic roll' in forming civ­ilization. 
f\lv fPllow IIUST-Prs and I haw !ward that tliH' of thn Coll;•gp's administrators rnfnrs to us roliPrtivnly as tlw "t;urri majors ... Hl'liPVt' 1111'-this has IPI'l many of us lwnlc•d as wc·ll I likt• to think that WP an• just a stylish group. hut I am guPssing this has f'urtl11~r implications. 
t)riP girl suggPst<·d that maylw this is I.H•eausn tlwy think WP arP intPIIPctual snobs-focusing on what are ollt•n rPft'ITPd to as thn "gn•at books." i\nother suggest­Pd thai p«'rhaps it is bt~raus<~ wt~ appn~ciatP what is classic and tinwlPss. 1\laylw wn will rwver know why our group has !wen given this nickname. but we are 111'\'Prtlwlnss proud of our major. 
llumanistir Studit~s bPgan in tlw fall senwster of 195(J at Saint Mary's and was foundml by Bruno Schlesinger. It was originally known <J.S tlw Program for Christian Cultun• and was an Pxpnrinwnt lnL•wd on the British historian Chrisloplwr Dawson's idea that Christian cul­turP in history. litPraturn. art. and social and spiritual thought should lw studied as an intngrated whole. 
Initially thP program n~cnivnd much national attnn­tion and support. Both tlw stud«'nl enrollment and fac­ulty of the department has grown since Professor Schlesinger pioneered the program with just 13 pupils. 
Today the major usually has about 20 new stu­dents each year. These small classes not only encourage strong relationships with fellow studnnts ana professors alike. but also give a unique set­ling !'or our discussion-based classes. 
The Ilurnanistic Studies program was the first at Saint Mary's to be granted a nationally endowml chair to tlw collPgn. ll was nanwd aflnr our foundPr Bruno Schlnsingnr who d<'dicaLPd hirnsnlf and taught in our program until just this ynar. 
I lis (JO ynars of service to Saint Mary's have bnnn quitn r<~nHtrkable. Many alumn;w have dnscribed his distinguishnd mputation to me as "the rmtson I carne to Saint Mary's for an mlucation." 
On Monday, Saint Mary's honored Professor Schlesinger for his impres­sive contributions to the college. and named Professor Gail Mandell to the Bruno I'. Schlesinger Chair for her service and dedication to the major. She humbly accepted this honor, telling her stu­dents and fellow faculty members. "You are my reason for bning here. You are my reason for doing what I do." 
Mandell and thn other faculty membnrs of the pro­gram continue to remain comrnittnd to the founding ideas of the program. As Professor Schlesinger said, his purpose was "To give the studnnts bread instead of 
stom~." 

I think I can speak for all of my fellow majors when I say that we have bnen nourish<~d by what we have learned from our studies. Our focus on history and cullurn in addi­tion to "the greats" such as Virgil, i\ugustirw. Chaucer. Machiavl'lli. More. Shakespnare, Voltain~ and FrPud (to narnn a fnw) has giwn us a bettnr understanding and pnrspeclivt~ or tlw history or WPstern civilization. conlnm­porary issues. and our owrr liws. 
I <'rH:ouragP any st.udt·nt. nitlwr at Saint Mary's or NolrP llanw. to takP a llumanistir Studit·s rours1• if you haw tlw tinH·. hll· th;>Sl' of you who an• still 

looking fc>r a major. this ont• is worth !'urtlwr ronsid­l'ration. Ilumanistic sLudiPs is a unique and Pnriching program that hnlps dtw(dop SUJWrior skills in thinking, rtHtding, writ­ing, listening, and speaking. In dosing. I would like to pay tributt• to Bruno Schlesinger for his outstanding service to Saint Mary's. 
lie truly has become a treasure to tlw College. I would also like to congratulate Gail Mandell-I know she will carry on in Dr. Schlesinger's grnat tradition. 
Molly Acker is a junior at ,\'aint Mary's. Slw is a dou­ble major in Communications and llumanistic Studies. She can be reached at ackeo75R@saintmarys.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ~~/'the author and not necessarily those r~/' The Ohseruer. 

THE 0HSERVER 




CENE
page 14 
Thursday, April 21, 2005 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
Carey shows her voice can still soar 
By BRODERICK HENRY Scene Music Critic 
Mariah Carey is a music superstar. With 16 No. 1 pop hits and more than 57 million units sold in the U.S. alone, Carey is con­sidered one of the greatest singers of our generation. 
Yet, like superstars Whitney Houston and Michael Jackson; Carey has had her fair share of problems. Nter a very public divorce from Sony music exec Tommy Mottola in 1997, Carey's career went from a sizzle to a slow burn. As her clothes have come ofT, the hits have diminished, and the pop diva's inner demons have also sur­faced. During the past four years, the singer has experienced an emotional breakdown -highlighted by a bizarre appearance on MTV's Total Request Live -and suffered the critical and commer­cial failure of two records and a movie. As a result, Carey finds herself trying to revamp an image and a career with the release of "The Emancipation of Mimi." 
With that in mind. the first single from "Emancipation." "It's Like That," !inds Mariah in a convivial mood singing, "Cuz it's my life I No stress, No fights I I'm leav­ing it all behind." 
Lyrically and musically, it is a significant retreat from Carey's earlier works. Driven by a hard bass-line, the 35-year-old singer proclaims herself a "hot tamale and those chickens ash, and she lotion." Undoubtedly, Carey is attempting to cater to the· MTV and BET audience who were five years old when she released her first album. To that end the song has been a great success, selling more than 404,000 copies in its first week of release. However, it may have confused the pop diva's devot­ed fans about the direction she is headed. 
Luckily, the rest of "Emancipation" is not as predictable or commercially constricted as "It's like That." Similar to most of today's pop records, the album has its fair share of guest performers: Snoop Dogg, Nelly, Twista and Jermaine Dupri, who makes numerous appearances as both producer and MC. Other than Twista's appearance on the stylized rap/singing hybrid "One and Only," these collabora­tions are rather forgettable. It appears the songbird is at her best when she leaves the musical extras of hip-hop behind and dis­plays the incomparable five-octave instru­ment that has made her famous -her voice. 

"Mine Again" is a standout and the per­fect example of Carey's singing abilities. Produced by Roots producer James Poyser. it is a song of heartbreak and yearning. The ballad begins with introductory piano keys and then adds horns and a bass gui­tar. Not much else is added to the mix, leaving Mariah's voice to bring her past relationship gone wrong to life, which she does efl'ortlessly. 
The Kanye West produced "Stay the Night" samples the old school hit "Betcha by Golly Why," and brightens the album up a bit. The sped-up sample works well with MiMi's wailing. Of course, no Mariah album would be complete without an inspirational gospel record. This time around it is the emotionally uplifting "Fly Like a Bird," which is reminiscent of Carey's former hits "Make it Happen" and "Hero." Soaring vocals and beautiful instrumentation leads the listener to believe either she or Carey will fly away. 
Overall. "The Emancipation of Mimi" is a good listen despite today's radio-singles­driven market. Although the album does have a few missteps. the good tracks, buoyed by Carey's voice and !)xquisite pro­duction. more than make up for them. An emancipated MiMi is an older, slightly flawed, more soulful MiMi. 
Contact Broderick Henry at bhenryl @nd.edu 

Hot Hot Heat stays lukewarm 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
AssiS<ant Scene Editor 
Although "Elevator" is its second album, few people have probably heard of the Canadian four-piece band Hot Hot Heat. Yet "Elevator" has garnered the attention of MTV and is slowly becoming a part of the contemporary music scene. While Hot Hot Heat shows promise as a great band, in comparison to similar bands like Jet, The Hives. Hazorlight and Keane, Hot Hot Heat does not measure up. "Elevator" is a good album with solid songs, but it is gen­erally a level below its competitors. 
"Elevator" is the follow-up to 2002's "Make Up the Breakdown," Hot Hot Heat's first major album. The Vancouver, Canada-based band is a basic four-piece rock band, with Steve Bays on vocals and keyboards, Paul Hawley on drums, Dustin 
Elevator 

Hot Hot Heat 
Sire 


Hawthorne on bass and Luke Paquin on guitar. 
The band is excited about its latest album and according to its Web site, frontman Steve Bays explains that, "We figured there were two ways to record a second album. You can do more or less what you did before, which works for some bands. Or. you can experiment, grow and change. which is the approach we took. What we discovered in the process was that, while we were taking huge steps forward musically, we were also coming full circle back to the style and sound that had brought us together in the first place. What we ended up with was a heightened version of what we've been doing from the beginning." 
That statement holds true to the record that was produced by Hot Hot Heat, and although "Elevator" is an improvement from its first album, it is still not enough to catapult the band into the same level as its rock contemporaries. 

That is not to say that there are not great songs on "Elevator." There are a handful of highlights and there is not real­ly a bad song on the entire album. "Middle of Nowhere" is one of the best songs on the album and is also the second single Hot Hot Heat is releasing off of "Elevator." The song shows the skill Hot Hot Heat has for developing a catchy melody and mem­orable lyrics. 
As many of the songs on the album are, "Middle of Nowhere" is about a girl and the confusion that lies in the singer's rela­tionship with her. The girl chimes in with advice multiple times throughout the song. At one point, "She said, 'Unpredictability's my responsibility, baby,"' and at another, "She said, 'Maybe there is a bit of me waiting for a bit of you, baby."' All in all, her lyrics are cleverly added to the song and make the song lyri­cally strong as well as melodically strong. 
Some other great tracks on the album include "Goodnight Goodnight," "Jingle Jangle" and "You Owe Me An IOU." 
All in all. "Elevator" is a quality album by a solid and creative band, but it does not rise above other bands in its genre. Hot Hot Heat is a good band. but as of now it has not proven itself as a group that deserves attention over its rock peers who are simply doing a better job at mak­ing great rock rriusic. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 


THE 0HSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, April 21, 2005 
page 15 
Future of ABC News remains uncertain 
Netzuork faces important personnel decisions 
A.liMu.:iatc::d l'rc::s.~ 
A gPnnration ago, Hoonn Arl!~dge took a third-rankl'd ABC News organization and transfornwd it into a powerhouse with surh stars as l'ntcr .Jennings, Ted Koppl'l and Barbara Walters. In part IJP('ause of tht• personal crossroads of .ll'nnings and Koppd, tlw rwxt fpw years I'I'Jli'I'SPnt tllf' lli'WS division's biggest rhallPngt~ sincl' tlwn. 
Tlm•p of ABC's signature newscasts ­"World NPWS Tonight." "Nightline" and "l'rimPiinu• Live" -fare signil'ieant thn•als and how tlw nPlwork responds could dl'lirw ABC News l'n~sidmll David \VI'stin's I!•gary. 
Canrl'r is always rnwl, but Jpnnings' April 5 annotii1CPI!lnnt that he was undPrgoing dwmothPrapy for lung can­ri'I' also Sl'l'llll'd sad for professional reaso11s. With Tom Brokaw and Dan Bather stepping down as anchors over tlw past few months, Jennings was poist~d to lmcome broadcast news' elder statPsman and perhaps evPn begin a second run at the top of the ratings. lie said lw would continue working wlwn lw could, but hasn't been on the air 
SiiiCI~. 
Only weeks ago a succession seemed several ynars off. and may still be. But, at the vm·y least, it's something Westin has to kncp in mind. 
Charlns (;ibson and Elizabeth Vargas Wl're dt~signated as fill-ins on "World NPws Tonight" for when Jennings is too sick to anchor. They would have to be considered the two most obvious inter­nal candidates to succeed Jennings if it camn to that. with Bob Woodruff and Terry Moran also possibilities. But Westin stressed he's only thinking about a substitute for Jennings, not a replace­ment. 
"/\ healthy news division has these transitions and has people in place to step in and we do," he said. "We have a bigger and stronger bench than the other news organizations." 
Gibson may be too valuable at "Good Morning America," which has dramati­cally narrowed the gap with NBC's mar­ket-leading "Today" show. 
The only anchor that "Nightline" has ever had over 25 years, Koppel announced last month he would leave ABC News at year's end. 
I lis show has earned one of' the best reputations in broadcast news. But its ratings are declining, and Koppel's lighter schedule was a problem: he often anchors three nights a wnek. 
"Tiwy knew they had a 'Nightline' problem for years and knew that Ted wouldn't be part of' the solution," said Bob Zelnick, f'ormer ABC News reporter and now head of Boston University's journalism school. 
Westin now has the delicate challenge of' inventing a new, live "Nightline" that doesn't insult the hard-news sensibilities of its current audience yet can still attract new, younger viewers more used to Jon Stewart late at night. And the unsuccessful recruitment of David Letterman left questions about ABC's commitment to news in the "Nightline" time slot. 
"l'rimetime Live," one of ABC's two rwwsmagazines, had high hopes for a revival this season behind new executive producer Shelley Hoss. But it didn't hap­pen, and Hoss was ousted after less than a year on the job. 
A difficult Thursday time slot and an industrywide trend of declining interest in newsmagazines hurt "Primetime." 
ABC has put the show under the control of "20/20" executive producer David Sloan, perhaps an indication that "Primetime" may be threatened when the network sets its fall schedule next month. 
"From my point of view, the challenges remain about constant," Westin said. "They are just more visible." 
Arguably, he said it was tougher duty whnn he began eight years ago, when he had to get the news organization work­ing better together and not resting on the laurels of its 1980s glory years. 
"It's a time of change," said Hichard Wald, a former ABC executive and now professor at Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism. "It's a time of' problems. Nothing in television gets invented until there is a problem." 
The late Arledge made bold moves, Wald said, because he had to. 
ABC News missed a key opportunity when it decided, for financial reasons, not to start a 24-hour cable news opnra­tion a decade ago, Wald said. NBC News did, and although MSNBC isn't a suc­cess, the network news division as a whole is the industry's most powerful. 
Earlier this month, ABC announced it was going ahead with ABC News Now, a 24-hour service that will offer news on various platforms: digital cable, the Internet, video streaming, cell phones and pagers. 
"To my way of thinking, ABC News Now is leapfrogging the traditional, lin­car 24-hour news services," Westin said. 
'1\vo decades ago, successful broadcast news companies did not see the business opportunity offered by cable news and it took another outlet -CNN -to realize it, said Marc Gunther. author of "The llouse That Boone Built," about ABC News in the 1980s. 
Similarly, the organizations now con­centrating on cable news may not be in 

Photo courtesy of abcnewsstore.com 

Peter Jennings' lung cancer has raised 
questions about the future of ABC's 

evening newscast. 
the best position to see the new possibil­ities that ABC is exploring. 
"They're busy with the old wars," Westin said, "and we're trying to go ahead with the new wars." 
ABC's aggressiveness in this realm may pay big future dividends. "That's about the only bright light that I can sec on the horizon," Gunther said. 
Becoming dominant in that area of 24-­hour news, however. depends upon hav­ing a strong, recognizable news product that people will want to seek out. 
And that requires ABC News to meet the immediate challenges. 


MacFarlane enjoying comedic success 
A~sot.iatctl Press 
fJp's a family man, evil infant, talk­ing dog and sarcastic alien. 
MPPt Seth MacFarlane, the creator of Fox's "Family Cuy" and "American Dad," as w1\ll as the voice of many of tlw characters on the two witty and ribald animated series. 
This day, at a tabln reading for an PpisodP of "Family (;uy," MacFarlane as till!• rharaekr l'etnr Griffin sings a song about working, works his way through baby Stewie's biting commen­tary, and invests Brian the mutt with livPiy common sense. 
I le also subs for so many other roles -later to lw l'ill1~d by guest actors ­that eventually even he, in an exchange between Brian and Peter, gets the volens mixed up -to a cho­rus of' laughter fwm some 60 people gatlwn~d in the conference room at MacFarlane's office. 
Among them are network watchdogs scribbling notes, undoubtedly marking nxtremes of sexual and religious humor that may not make the 11nal cut in this post-Janet era. "We give the.m· a few red herrings that we 11gure they would take out," MacFarlane says. 
Although he wonders why the stan­dards and practices people get so upset sometimes, he credits them for generally being reasonable, "particu­larly with the pressures they are under right now with the FCC." 
Fox originally canceled "Family 
Guy," but has picked it up again, along with his new series, "American Dad." MacFarlane says he recognizes the cancellation was a business decision the network was entitled to. 
But now. in response to the success of the "Family Guy" DVDs and reruns on the Cartoqn Network's late-night "Adult Swim'' lineup, 35 new episodes, along with at least 13 episodes of "American Dad," have been ordered by the network. 
The half-hour shows, which got a prominent kickoff following tho Super Bowl telecast in February, begin air­ing rngularly on May 1, in the 9 p.m. EDT time slot. 
''I'm too excited to gloat," the 31­year-old MacFarlane says, laughing. 
Mike Barker and Matt Weitzman, co­creators and executive producers of "American Dad," say. it helps to be "twisted" if you work with MacFarlane. 
"American Dad" is about Stan Smith (voiced by MacFarlane), a trigger­happy CIA agent obsessed with nation­al security. His ultraliberal daughter, llayley, is voiced by MacFarlane's younger sister, Rachael. Hoger, a space alien also voiced by MacFarlane, lives in the Smiths' attic, and the family circle includes Klaus (Dee Bradley). a German-speaking, sexually obsessed goldfish, the result of a CIA experiment gone wrong. 
MacFarlane gets into his characters at a reading -so much so that he sometimes gets voices mixed up. 
MacFarlane says the show's concept "sprang from th·c climate during the !presidential] election ... a very politi­cally charged time, with the whole country split in half." 
lie's a big fan of "All in the Family," which satirized the sharp cultural and political divisions in the 1970s, and feels "that's what we arc dealing with now." 
A liberal on most issues, MacFarlane eo-created in Smith a right-wing char­acter who is "completely the other end of' the spectrum." But he says, "It's interesting, because by its nature, it dons keep us in chei.:k .from getting on a soap box, because at the end of the day, you have to like your main char­acter." 
So there's equality of thought in the parodying of the absurdities of both Stan's knee-jerk reactionism and Hayley's ultraliberalism. 
"Originally we intended for Hayley to be the voice of reason, but as it's gone along, it's much funnier to play a little more extreme," says Barker. 
The visual style is the same on both the Griffin-and Smith-family shows ­which are hand-drawn in Korea-but Weitzman believes what most clearly marks the difference between the two is that "American Dad" has "much less non-sequitur humor than 'Family Guy' ... We are more narrative." 
MacFarlane freely acknowledges his influences and inspirations. He's a fan of "The Simpsons" and of Gary Larson's "The Far Side" cartoons, in 

Seth Macfarlane's new series, 'American Dad,' begins airing regularly on May 1 on Fox. 
which the "animals were always drawn completely real. If you look at his cows, there's nothing cartoony about them -other than that they arc standing on their hind legs. But those leg joints are like real cows, only these have names like Warren, Paul and Steve." 
. 
Thursday, April 21, 2005 

page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 

Nets clinch last playoff berth 102-93 over Celtics 
ther he nor Larry. Hughes help the Los Angeles Clippers 
-
Associated Press played a minute in the fourth defeat New Orleans 86-75 BOSTON -Vince Carter and quarter as Washington rested Wednesday night, leaving the the New Jersey Nets clinched up for its first-round playoff Hornets with the worst record the NBA's last playoff berth with series against Chicago, which in franchise history. a shaky start and a strong finish starts Sunday. New Orleans {18-64)'had a -the same way the team's sea­nine-game losing streak to end son went. Miami 98, Orlando 93 the season. Carter shook off an early With Shaquille O'Neal and Two of the Clippers' soon-to­injury and scored 24 of his 37 Dwyane Wade watching from be free agents, Bobby Simmons points in the second half to lead the bench, the Miami Heat won and Marko Jaric, both left good the Nets' comeback from a 19-their final tuneup before the impressions with 14 points each point, second-quarter -deficit in playoffs, beating the Orlando in what was otherwise a mean­a 102-93 win over the Boston Magic 98-93 on Wednesday ingless game between two non­Celtics on Wednesday night. night. playoff teams. Simmons also New Jersey needed to make The Heat (59-23) enter the had 11 rebounds. one final rally after the Celtics playoffs on a three-game win­It was the opposite story for used an 8-0 run to close to 96-ning streak, proving they've two of the top llornets entering 93 with 1:16 left. The Nets snapped out of the funk that the free agent market this sum­scored the final six points, all developed after they clinched mer. Dan Dickau shot 1-for-1 0 on free throws, then shook the East's top seed on April 5. and finished with three points, hands with Boston players and They lost four straight after and Bostjan Nachbar was 1-for­walked calmly off the court. that. 8 for six points. J.R. Smith led The Nets got the No. 8 seed in Miami will open the playoffs New Orleans with 15. the Eastern Conference and against New Jersey this week­play at top-seeded Miami on end. The Nets took the eighth Dallas 108, Memphis 88 Sunday. The Celtics already had and final postseason berth by Josh· Howard scored 27 points clinched the No. 3 seed and beating Boston. to help the Dallas Mavericks roll open their first-round series at Miami took all three games into the playoffs with a 108-88 home Saturday night against from New Jersey, winning by an victory over the Memphis Indiana or Philadelphia. New average of more than 21 points. Grizzlies on Wednesday night. Jersey started the season with a The absence of O'Neal for a The Mavericks, who will play 2-11 record but finished with a secqnd straight game was the Houston Rockets in the first 15-4 surge. Still, the Nets went expected. His bruised right round, closed the season by into the final day of the regular thigh may sideline him for winning their last nine games season competing with Game 1 of the first round. and 13 of their final 14. Cleveland for the last playoff Memphis, the Western spot. Had the Nets lost, they Minnesota 95, San Antonio 73 Conference's No. 8 seed. limped would have been eliminated The Minnesota Timberwolves' into the postseason, losing live because Cleveland won at lost season finally came to an of 'its final six. The Grizzlies will Toronto. end Wednesday night with a 95-open against the top-seeded ~· 73 victory over the San Antonio Phoenix Suns. AP New York 113, Washington Spurs, already looking ahead to The tone was set early and 105 a first-round playoff matchup Dallas was never threatened Jamal Crawford made seven with Denver. after building a 19-point lead in 3-pointers and scored 36 points, Ndudi Ebi had a career-high the first half. The game was so Wednesday night. and put the finishing touches on and the New York Knicks came 18 points and eight rebounds in control that the Mavericks' "It's just great to go home like his fourth scoring title, and from behind to beat the playoff­and Michael Olowokandi had 10 starters were able to sit out the this, with a win and on a good Philadelphia clinched seventh bound Washington Wizards points and 14 rebounds for the fourth period. note," Okafor said. "We didn't place in the Eastern Conference 113-105 Wednesday night. Timberwolves, who outre­Howard was 11-of-14 from win a lot of games this year, but with a 110-86 win over the The Knicks didn't lead until bounded the Spurs 58-39. the field and grabbed six we played hard in all of them Atlanta Hawks on Wednesday 
1:48 remained when Maurice Tim Duncan played only 23 rebounds. Dirk Nowitzki scored and it's great to get a reward in night. Taylor posted up Etan Thomas, minutes for the Spurs, the No. 2 16 points, Jerry Stackhouse had the last one." Afterward, the 76ers had to· hit a short jumper and drew seed in the Western Conference. 13 and Michael Finley 11. Actually, the Bobcats won await the outcome of the Thomas' sixth foul. Crawford They will open the playoffs more games than anyone pre­Indiana-Chicago game to learn followed with his seventh 3-Sunday at home against the Charlotte 97, Detroit 86 dicted. They finished 18-64, who their first-round opponent pointer with 1:06 left, and the Nuggets. Emeka Okafor left the court equaling the number of wins would be. When the Pacers Wizards were forced to foul the For the Timberwolves, it was for the final time as a rookie Orlando had in 1989-90 and won, it meant Philadelphia will Knicks, who set a team record an anticlimactic ending to a without his shirt or shoes, bettering the first-year marks of face former coach Larry Brown by hitting all 26 of their free monumentally disappointing everything given away to the Vancouver, Miami and Dallas. and the Detroit Pistons, who throws, including seven by season filled with contract fans who cheered the Charlotte won the season series 3-1. Crawford. squabbles, a coaching change Bobcats on to a victory in their Philadelphia 110, Atlanta 86 "We're 3-1 against Boston so 
Stephan Marbury added 20 and uninspired effort, the last of season finale. Kyle Korver "openly rooted for obviously we want to play points and seven assists for the which completely befuddled Okafor had 16 points and 19 Chicago. Josh Davis was flip­Boston. We had the most suc­Knicks, who avoided a 50-loss interim coach Kevin McHale. rebounds as Bobcats closed out ping channels trying to locate cess against them," Korver said. season. Michael Sweetney had their inaugural season with a ESPN. Marc Jackson insisted "At the same time, we're not 16 points and 13 rebounds. LA Clippers 86, New Orleans 75 victory, snapping the Detroit Philadelphia could beat any scared of Detroit. We're going 
Gilbert Arenas scored 25 Elton Brand scored 18 points Pistons' 11-game winning team. to come out and play hard points for the Wizards, but nei-and grabbed 14 rebounds to streak with a 97-86 win Allen Iverson scored 16 points regardless of who it is." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. [o 3 r.m. a[ the Nmre Dame office, 024 South Dining HalL Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righ[ [O edi[ all classifieds for content wi[hout issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
LOST & FOUND 
Black leather wallet of Visiting Fellow @ Kroc Peace Institute missing. Disappeared Tues 4/12 in/around Hesburgh Center for Inti Studies. Most problematic loss: drivers license (pink, NL), very diffi­cult to replace. If seen, PLS RETURN, drop off at Kroc lnst., no questions asked.Thx M Parlevliet, tel 1-2628/1-0253; Qarlevliet.1 @nd.edu 


WANTED 
Roommate to share rent for my 2bdrm apt. 570-814-2716 or email: mmurph21 @nd.edu 
Summer Camp Jobs! Work with people with disabiUties. Great job experience, fun people,make money! Near Wisconsin Dells. www.EasterSealsWisconsin.com or call 1 .800.422.2324 

FOR SALE 
New London Lakes Condo, walking 
distance to ND, 3 bedrooms, 2 
baths, lake view, 2 car garage, pool, · completely remodeled $129,900 
(574) 256-2198 or (574) 255-3930 
Brand name Queen pillowtop mat­
tress set. New in plastic. Full war· 
ranty. $185. 574-876-4474 
Full mattress set with warranty. 
Unopened in Plastic. Sacrifice 
$145. 574-231-4522. 
IRISH CROSSINGS Luxurious, spacious homes one block east of campus. Walk to campus year-round. Closer to the Joyce Center than 24 of the 27 dorms! Now under construction! For more information: Go to: www.lrishCrossings.com Email: lrishCrossings@gmail.com 
94 Ford Aspire,71 K,$950 OBO. 
574-315-1160. 
94 Ford Aspire,71 K,$950 OBO. 574-315-1160. 
Charming home 1407 Sorin 1/2 mi from ND, 2 BR, 1 Ba,AC,FP, Full Bsmt, Gas heat, Fenced yard,patio,Gar,Dg Kennel,all applncs. $55,000. 233-7616. 

FoR RENT 

DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS­ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED­ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7­8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK VISIT OUR WEB· SITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234­2436 OR 574-315·5032. 
Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent program. Blue & Gold Homes (574)250-7653. 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 
S.B. AVE · 605 ST PETER CALL 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 
6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK 
FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH+ DEP STAFF AND FAC­
ULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876­3537. 
2,4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus, call 234-9923, ask for Rod. 
www.andersonNDrentals.com 
STUDENT RENTALS $400 PER MONTH All utilities, ADT security, phone/cable/DSL, W/D, Lawn serv­ice. 2,3,4,5 bdrms. Avaii.05/06. Call 315-3215 
4-5 bdrm,2 bath house in SB. Lots of room. Call Judy 574-298-6217. 
2&3 bdrm houses close to ND. $350/mo/person.Lawn service & appliances incl. 273-4889. 
5-bedroom house for rent 2005-06. Close to campus. 105 Marquette Ave 232-6964. 
2 bdrm, 1 bath remodeled furnished house close to ND, $700/mo. 2844089,9-5pm; 703-7276217 after 5pm 
Furnished 1-bdrm apt.Free laun­dry. No smokers, no pets. 
On bus route,2 mi to ND. 350+utili­ties. 289-9365 
2005-06 $250-300/mo Furn. rooms. Country setting, 10 mi to ND.Non­smokers. Private entrance,laundry,kitchenette,cable & util incl. 289-9365. 
4 bdrm house, 1.5 ba.Furnished.Family or 2 grad stu­dents. $900/mo +utilities. Close to ND. 287-7189 or lv msg Beautiful suite available for gradua­lion, football weekends and all spe­cial events. Near ND. Reasonably priced. ND alum owner/managed. 574-271·7205 
GREAT LOCATION: 522 Napoleon 4blks from ND. 2bdrm remodeled home available 5/1 $600, (219)629·5483. 
ND Grad Student renting studio apt. for 05/06 year. 1 mile from ND. $400/mo includes all utilities + cable TV+ internet 574-339-0582. 
PERSONAL 
SBS, Good luck with thesis ..Only 5 more days! I love you! MGM 
GO Braves! 
Do the flavored ones taste differently? 
How could you not cry at Jersey Girl? It is a sad movie 

Thursday, April 21, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB 


Garciaparra injured in Cubs win 
stop. now,"' Baker said. "lie just
Chicago shortstop 
Garciaparra's slump landed wants to win and I know he had been struggling him in the sixth spot in the feels bad about not contributing. Cubs' lineup. lle'd batted third lie hasn't struggled this much in to open the season all season but is in a 4-for-23 a long time." 
skid and has four HBI this sea­Baker said it's likely only a 
son. minor alteration is needed for 
Associated Press 
lie volunteered to move down Garciaparra to bust out of his 
ST. LOUIS Nomar in the order if it would help the slump. (;areiaparra of the Chicago Cubs team. "It's usually something small," was carried oil' the field with a ''I'm not going to be upset the manager said. "But we groin injury after grounding into about it," Garciaparra said haven't been around him long a double play and then collaps­before the game. enough to know ing just in front of the batter's ''I'm just strug­what it is." 
"He just wants to

box in the third inning of gling a little bit, Earlier in the Wednesday night's game again~t just off. That's the win and I know he week, the Cubs tlw St. Louis Cardinals. nature of the game feels bad about not tried grvmg Tho slumping Garciaparra, and I'll just keep Garciaparra
contributing."

hitting .157 after going 0-for-2 working through some rest. But with a strikeout. took a few it." after a day ofT he steps toward first base before Derrek Lee, bat­Dusty Baker was 0-for-5 with­falling. Tlw team said the sever­ting .385 with a Cubs manager out hitting the ity of tho injury to Gardaparra's team-leading four ball out of the Jpft groin was unclnar and said horne runs and 17 infield on he likely would UIHiergo an MHI HBI, switched places with Tuesday at Cincinnati. <'X1LII1 on Thursday. Garciaparra in tho lineup. Lee was 14-for-32 in his pre­
.Jerry llairston replaced Manager Dusty Baker thought it vious nine games, plus he bat­(;arciaparra in the lineup, play­was best not to tinker with the ted .420 against the Cardinals ing sm:ond base with Neili Porez rest of the order. last year with live homers and moving from second to short-"lie said. ''I'm not helping us 16 HBI in 69 at-bats. 
NFL 




Clarett is a likeI y second-day choice 
Associated Press "lie might be a player that just doesn't run fast, but 
Maurice Clarett's long, somehow gets the job done," strange trip to the NFL is Brandt said. nearing its end. Maybe. Don't look for Clarett to get 
It's been more than two drafted any earlier than the 
· years since Clarett scored the fifth round, said Mike Mayock. touchdown that gave Ohio a draft analyst for the NFL State its first national title in Network. 34 years. "This is pretty good running Then carne legal troubles, back class coming out this NCAA violations and a failed year. I'd much rather go with lawsuit against the NFL. A a proven track record of dura­player once spoken of with the bility," Mayock said. "Is some­kind of awe reserved for a body going to say let's take a young talent like LeBron chance? Yes." James had become synony­Brandt points to Clarett mous with controversy and wrestling the ball away from poor character. Sean Taylor after an intercep­Now, Clarett is saying and tion -one of the most rm~mo­doing all the right things -rable plays of Ohio State's :n­enough, perhaps. for a team to 24 victory over top-rankPd select him in this weekend's Miami in the 200:~ Fiesta Bowl NFL draft. -for an exam pie of why "He's definitely a second-day Clarett is worth drafting. pick," said Gil Brandt, the It was a play that took great 
NFL's draft consultant. "lie's football sense, something his really tried to turn his life representatives have been around." promoting in recent weeks. 
Brandt knows Clarett hasn't "Maurice is one of these dazzled anyone with his speed. guys who you can do all the After a disastrous showing at drills in the world, you put a the NFL combine, Clarett football in his hand and he improved last month at a pri­turns into a different kid," said vate workout near his home­his attorney, David Kenner. town of Warren, Ohio, running "That's Maurice. lie's been a 4.67-second 40-yard dash. doing it since he was 5 years 
But Emmitt Smith and old and I don't see any reason
ABener Place Is Jerome Bettis didn't run that to believe it should change fast either, Brandt said. now." 
Cas11e Polin1 Apar1men1s




EasvTo Find. 
180 I I Cleveland Rd 
·--~~i;f1 JOV :'.(1101/V lfiqere [0 ti0 1 
South Bend, In 46637 ***$99 .00 for the 1st months rent 
,,.... · a~1c.. ·t X IJ', '' ' .,,., 11 
-} '.)1\ L Jl: ' [~::; ~"\ ~-;-C1f I' 
w/ a 14 mo. lease plus your choice 
-Ask about our Coll~e Grad Plan 1 
of a microwave oven, DVD player or a Spot Cleaner for carpet*** All regular 1 bedroom apts. ~549.00 mo. Two bedrooms start at ~715.00 mo. Two bedroom, den & loft ~925.00 mo. 
High Speed Wireless Internet Computer Center w/ high speed internet Gated Community • Free Tanning Close to Notre Dame • Racquet and Handball Courts Relaxing Jacuzzi and Sauna New Fitness Center • Beach Volleyball Sparkling Heated Pool • Use of Indoor Heated Pool Short Term Fully Furnished 1 & 2 Bedroom Suites 
Open 7 Days a Week www.cppj.com Call NOW 574-272-8110 
• IRISH ATHLETICS THIS WEEK!. 
~--.. 

. Thursday, April 21st 


*Early arriving fans  stu  ent  *First 250  ucky fans will  *The first 250 fans to the  
will receive a  admission with ID  receive a softball schedule  game will receive a  
Leprechaun Nesting  to all baseball  lass sponsored by Between  leprechaun stacking doll from  
II from Papa John's! *First 250 fans will  games at the Eck and softball  the Buns and Coca-Cola! *Wear your Jimmy Buffett beach duds and win prizes! *Free fajitas courtesy of Between the Buns!  Papa John's! * One lucky fan will win a $100 shopping spree to the Bookstore!  




OUND THE NATION 
page 18 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Thursday, April21, 2005 

team record p¢t, Boston 45·37 .549 
.. Philadelphia 43·39 .524/'''' ' s~a New Jersey 42·40 ;512 .·. a•z Toronto 33~49 .402 •·<·· · ' •i3~1}'•'·''•' New York 33·49 :w ;402 
.···4•6 .. 
Eastern Conference, Central 

team record pet. last 10 
Detroit 54·28 .659 9·1 Chicago 47-35 .573 6·4 Indiana 44·38 .537 6·4 Cleveland 42·40 .512 4"6 Milwaukee 30·52 .366 3"7 
:-.t::::i:·::·::·· 

Eastern Conference, SoutheMt ··•· 
team record 
pet;. ···• las Miami 59·23 .720•••··,·,..·.·,··
.•5~q,,,,.,-qi·:·.·.·,., .....
washington 45·37 Orlando 36·46 .439 Charlotte 18·64 .220 Atlanta 1H9 

Western Conference, Notthwe$t i\j!n 
team record pet; lastlO Seattle 52·30 .634 2·8 Denver 49·33 .598 8•2 Minnesota 44·38 ,537 6~4 Utah 26·55 ,321 4-6 Portland 26·55 .321 2•8 · 
Western Conference, Pacific team record pet last1o Phoenix 62·19 .765 8·2 
Sacramento 49·32 .605 . 6·4 L.A. Clippers '37-45 .451 5·5 L.A. Lakers 34·47 .420 1·9 Golden Stale 33·48 ..407 7-3 
Western Conference, Southwest 
team record pet. lastJ,o San Antonio 59·23 .720 &•4 Dallas 58·24 .707 94. ? Houston 51-31 .622 7•3 Memphis 45·37 
.549 New Orleans 18"64 .220 
CoUege 
Big East '-"Uitll'll:i 
team 

Seton Hall 10•2~0 ..... 24Atl~O NOTRE DAME IJ;.o.o tg~a~o Syracuse 8·2·0 23~13"0 ConneGiicut 4~1o~o . 14~za•o Pittsburgh 4-4·0 1HM Providence H·O 26•13•0 St. John's H•O 17~24•1 Villanova 4-6·0 29•19~0 Boston College 3•5•0 15·17·0 Rutgers 1•9·0 3,33,0 
College Baseball Big East Conf4;,rei11Ce 
team 
St. John's Boston College NOTRE DAME Rutgers 

·· VIllanova Pittsburgb West VIrginia Connecticut Georgetown Seton Hall 
around the dial 
MLB 

Cubs at Cardinals, 1 p.m., ESPN 
MEN'S LACROSSE Maryland at Towson, 3 p.m., ESPNU Virginia at Johns Hopkins, 5 p.m., ESPNU 
GOLF 


AP 

Vijay Singh smiles during a news conference to announce his induction to the World Golf Hall of Fame's Class of 2005 Wednesday in Humble, Texas. Singh is the defending champion of the Houston Open, which starts today. 

Singh inducted to Hall of Fame, barely 
Associated Press 
Vij ay Singh's arduous journey from Fiji reached another unimaginable des· tination Wednesday when he was elected to the World Golf Hall of Fame with the lowest percentage of votes and help from a clause in criteria. 
Singh was the only play­er elected from the PGA Tour ballot, receiving 56 percent of the vote. 
"Coming from where I am, trying to make a living and never thinking about player of the year or the Hall of Fame, this was never in my wildest dreams." Singh said from 
IN BRIEF 

Major league umpire inves­
tigated in alleged assault 
DENVER -Major league umpire Paul Schrieber is under investigation for an alleged assault on a flight attendant during a trip to Denver last weekend, two sources told The Associated Press on Wednesday. 
U.S. attorney's spokesman Jeff Dorschner confirmed federal prose· cutors are investigating allegations that a flight attendant was assaulted by a passenger on Sunday. He said no decision has been made on whether charges would be filed. 
American Airlines spokesman Tim Wagner said the flight attendant was verbally abused and physically assaulted, but would not identify any­one involved. 
A baseball source and a law enforcement source, both speaking on condition of anonymity, told the AP that Schrieber was being investi· · gated. 
The 38-year-old Schrieber worked the games between the Arizona the Houston Open, where he is the defending cham­pion. "This is what hard work does. It pays off." 
Few have worked harder than Singh, 42, a self· taught player from tiny Fiji who toiled on tours around the world until his career took off in America. He has 25 victories on the PGA Tour, won three major championships and late last year reached No. 1 in the world ranking. 
But his election to the Hall of Fame was a close call. 
Players from the PGA Tour and International bal· lot require 65 percent of the vote for election. Hall 
Diamondbacks and Colorado Rockies on Monday and Tuesday. He is in his eighth seasun in the majors and has done three playoff series and an All· Star $ame. Indiana fans say goodbye to Reggie Miller 
INDIANAPOLIS -Reggie Miller scripted his own farewell. 
He chose the music, left the game on his terms and delivered on the court in typical fashion Wednesday night -helping to spark a late rally as the Indiana Pacers beat Chicago 85-83 in his final regular-season home game. 
Afterward, Miller. a sometimes brash talker and effervescent cele· brator, showed a humble side. He thanked the Indiana Pacers fans for helping him grow up and choked back tears as team owner Herb Simon gave Miller a parting gift -a Bentley car. 
"They talk about Los Angeles and Hollywood and New York, but nobody really knows how to do this but in the of Fame officials two years ago added a stipulation that if no one gets 65 per­cent. the players with the most votes will be elected provided he is on at least 50 percent of the ballots. 
It was the second time the Hall of Fame changed its criteria, lowering the standard from 75 percent to 65 percent in 2001 after no one from the PGA Tour was elected. 
Larry Nelson, who won 10 times and three major championships, finished second in the voting with 55 percent. 
Curtis Strange, the domi­nant American of his gen­eration with 17 victories 
heartland," Miller said as he spoke to the soldout crowd. 
The Indianapolis Children's Choir and the Pacemates all wore Miller's familiar No. 31 jersey. Fans held up gold-and-blue placards that read "Thank You Reggie." Some fans brought their own signs that read "There will be only one No. 31" and "Miller Time Will Never Be The Same." Bulls put Chandler on injured list for last game 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Chicago Bulls placed Tyson Chandler on the injured list Wednesday night and activated guard Frank Williams before their game at Indiana, the final game of the regular season. 
Chandler, averaging eight points and 9.7 rebounds a game, sprained his left ankle Tuesday night in Chicago's victory over the New York Knicks. 
The Bulls said Chandler will return in time for the playoffs and will be included on their 12-man active roster. 
and. the back-to-back U.S. Open titles, received 50 percent of the vote. Two­time major winners Henry Picard (49 percent) and Craig Woods (41 percent) rounded out the top five. 
The World Golf Hall of Fame refused to say how many ballots were returned or how many votes Singh, Nelson and other candidates received; it only released percent· ages. 
The induction ceremony is scheduled for Nov. 14 at the World Golf Village in St. Augustine. Fla .. although it was not imme· diately clearly when Singh would be inducted. 

Thursday, April 21, 2005 page 19
The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

page 20 Thursday, April 21, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 



Diamondbacks top Giants in pitchers' duel 
Vazquez throws seven shutout innings to get first win ofseason 
Associated Press 
SAN FBANCISCO -Even though he spent last season in the American League, Javier Vazquez remembered how to beat the San Francisco Giants. 
Vazquez pitched seven score­less innings, helping the Arizona Diamondbacks hand Noah Lowry the first loss of his major league career with a 2-1 victory over the Giants on Wednesday night. 
Vazquez (1-2) allowed eight hits, struck out two and walked two to win for the first time since returning to the National League in the trade that sent Randy Johnson to the New York Yankees. He entered the game with an 11.77 EBA this season before improving to 5-1 in his last six decisions against the Giants. 

"''ve actually felt as good or better my first three starts." Vazquez said. "I got a few breaks today and got the results." 
The last time he faced the Giants, on Aug. 18, 2003, as a member of the Montreal Expos, he pitched a shutout. Vazquez improved to 2-1 with a 2.10 ERA in four games at SBC Park. 
''I've been on the other side of him shutting us out," Diamondbacks manager Bob Melvin said. "That's no sur­prise to me. I knew he was going to give us an outing like this. He picked us up big time." 
Lowry (1-1) had been 7-0 in 22 games, including 16 starts. That was the second-longest winning streak to start a career in Giants history, behind Hooks Wiltse's 12-0 start in 1904. 
Lowry gave up only two hits. but walked five and allowed both runs in six innings. He struck out four and retired the Brandon Lyon came on for the final seven batters he faced. final four outs. earning his 
"I just didn't have it." Lowry sixth save in seven chances said. "The winning streak despite giving up his first doesn't matter to me. I was just earned run of the season in his trying to find some consistency. eighth appearance. By the time I found it, it was Pedro Feliz doubled with two too late." outs in the eighth and Bruney 
The Diamondbacks. hitting walked Edgardo Alf'onzo before only .204 through the first six Lyon came in to strike out games of a seven-Marquis game road trip, won Grissom. for just the second "We had lots
"/got a few breaks

time in six games. of offense." They also beat the today and got the Giants manag­Giants in San results." er Felipe Alou Francisco for the said. "Even by second time in 12 accident we
Javier Vazquez

games. should have "It was just Diamondbacks pitcher scored." 
enough," the Diamondbacks' Luis Gonzalez said. "This road trip we haven't hit as well as we'd like, but Vazquez pitched great. He's been a dominant pitcher in the National League his whole career." 
Brian Bruney got the first two outs of the eighth. and 
Durham hit a 
sacrifice fly off Lyon in the ninth before Omar Vizquel flied to len with a run-. ner on first. 
Arizona scored its runs in the third with the help of an error. Lowry walked Vazquez to open the inning and Craig Counsell grounded to Lance Niekro. 
whose throw pulled Vizquel off' second base and both runners were safe. 
Royce Clayton bunted, but Lowry forced Vazquez at third. Gonzalez hit an HBI double o('f the center-field wall and Troy Glaus followed with a sacrifice fly. 
The Diamondbacks turned thn)e doublP plays in tlw first five innings to support Vazquez. who did not allow a runner past second until the Giants left the bases loaded with two outs in the seventh. 
"Defense has been big for us all season," Melvin said. "It was the difference in the ball game. It's almost routine the way Counsell and Clayton come up with balls that has ·affected the game." 
The Giants had two runners on in the third, but Vizquel ­playing in his 2,139th game at shortstop, tying him with Alan Trammell for eighth all-time­grounded out. Feliz flew out with two on in the sixth. 


Thursday, April 21, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Belichick takes long-term view of NFL draft 
Patriots coach doesn't l!Xpl!ct mttch rookie contribution next yfar  That growth process worked so well that the Patriots won three of tlw last four Super Bowls. an amazing accomplish­ment. but one that extends their season and cuts into their  tory pick. "That really limits what you can do in the first two rounds," Beliehick said. The key for Belichick is how a drafted player performs with­ Patriots released Brown and should bn set at wide receiver after signing veterans David Terrell and Tim Dwight. Belichick said Brown could be re-signed.  situation. and I would just defer to him on any of those. I don't have anything to add," lw said. Even if Belichick isn't count­ing on Bruschi for the coming  
Aum:i.ucd Pres~  time to plan for the draft. ''I'm glad that that was the  in the Patriots' system once he becomes familiar with it. And  "I don't want to comment on any of those personal conver­ season, that may not influence him to draft a linebacker.  
FOXBOBO. Mass. -The Nnw  situation," Belichick said. "But  that player could be chosen in  sations," he may  "If  you  are  
Hngland Patriots go into the  it is still putting three months  a  late round rather than  on  have had concern­ looking for a cer­ 
draft with  a  team  that already  worth of work into two or two­ Saturday's first day  of the  ing that possibility,  "We have seen a  tain type of play­ 
looks different than last sea­son's champions. Ty l.aw and Troy Brown were  and-a-half," he said. "There is nothing we can do about it." lie and his staff haven't had  draft, when the first three rounds will take place. The Patriots took quarter­ he said. The Patriots could use help in  lot ofplayers that have changed their  er, there is going to be a group that really  
rPIPasnd and T<~dy Bruschi had  to spend much time studying  back Tom Brady in the sixth  the draft at defen­ value to the team  appeals to you,"  
a mild strok1~ that could side­line him at lnast for this sea­son. Still, coach Bill llelichick  the top 10 to 15 players avail­able because the Patriots have the last picks of the first and  round in 2000, a choice Belichick called the best of his career.  sive back after releasing Law fol­lowing 10 years  as they have improved."  he said, "and there is going to be another group  
isn't counting on  immediate  second  rounds.  That gives  But he also took wide receiv­ with  the  team.  that  you  just  
contributions from the players lw picks this weekend. "It is not always what a guy  them fewer options to trade for a better pick than they had last year, when they had the 21st  er David Givens in the seventh round in 2002 and center Dan Koppen in the fifth round in  And Bruschi's con­dition -along with the release of  Bill Bellchlck Patriots coach  really don't have much use for, but arc going to be  
can do on the first opening day  and 32nd picks but kept both.  2003. Then there's Brown, an  linebacker Homan  drafted because  
of his rookie year," he said.  Their third pick is the tOOth  eighth-round pick in 1993 who  Phifer ­ creates a need at that  other teams will be looking for  
"Wn have seen a lot of players  overall, a compensatory choice  turned into an outstanding  position.  those types of players."  
that have changed their value  for losing free agents. Their  wide receiver and  even  saw  Belichick shed no light on the  Since the Super Bowl, the  
to  tlw  learn  as  they  have  own  third-round choice  was  considerable action at defen­ likelihood of Bruschi playing  team  has added linebackers  
improvNI, whether it be after  traded to Arizona for corner­ sive back last season.  this year.  Monty Beisel from Kansas City  
the first year or after tlw  sec­ back Duane Starks. They're not  With  an eye toward control­ "I think that Tedy has made a  and Wesly Mallard from  tlw  
ond yPar"  allowed to trad(~ thn compensa­ ling  their  salary  cap.  the  number of comments about his  New York Giants.  


MISHAWAKA. IN. 
258.9999 

327 Union Street, Mishawaka 

N• 
Graduation Weekend: Your seat is reserved. 
Since your parents picked up your meol tab for the 
post four yeors, soy thonk you with dinner -but hey, 
let them poy, thot woy they will know it really is you! 
Now taking reservations for Graduation Weekend Dinners: Thursday, Friday ond Saturday from Spm to Midnight. 
www.UnionStationMishawaka.com 

steaks • c h 0 p s • seafood 

.----------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, April 21, 2005 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 

CYCLING  ,.ur~le Creek Apar~men~s  
Americans look for  GET IT WHILE IT'S H 0 T!  
Armstrong's heir  • Walk to campus  

Associated Press 
Lance Armstrong is clearly the most recognizable figure American cycling has ever known, a rider who managed to make people in the United States 
take notice of a sport that previously registered lit­tle, if any, interest in this country. 
And Tyler Hamilton was the one who 

was supposed Armstrong to replace him on cycling's mountaintop. Within a few hours earlier this week. Armstrong and Hamilton -albeit in vastly different ways, for vastly different reasons ­essentially began pedaling their way out of the spotlight. And now USA Cycling is left wonder­ing where its future star power will come from. "There's some big shoes to fill." Olympic bronze medalist Bobby Julich said. On Monday, Armstrong announced this year's Tour de France will be his last ride before retirement. Shortly after, Hamilton began serving a two­year doping-related suspension. There will be appeals in both cases. Armstrong, the six-time defending Tour de France cham­pion, will hear pleas for his return. Hamilton, the 2004 Olympic road time trial gold medalist. will lobby the Court of Arbitration for Sport to overturn what he calls an erroneous test and allow him to race again. 

Yet it's seemingly certain that soon, USA Cycling will be with­out its two biggest drawing cards. 
"I don't want to see Lance go, but he's given us an extraordi­nary career," said Gerard Bisceglia, CEO of USA Cycling. ''l--Ie's put cycling on page one of sports sections. He's given a lot of other riders the opportunity to show their wares in Europe. But he's left the stage much brighter than when he stepped onto it." 
The all-time roster of American superstar cyclists has two names: Armstrong and Greg LeMond, the three-time Tour de France winner. No one else even comes close to their stature. 
Bisceglia says that for cycling to keep progressing in this coun­try. a single American star does­n't necessarily need to emerge. 
Instead, for perhaps the first time, the U.S. has strength in numbers -or in cycling-speak, a peleton. 
"Of course Lance is the bright­est star," Bisceglia said. "But all you have to do is look at the results in Europe last year and this year....What you're going to see happening is not one American replacing Lance, but the Americans as a whole will become a frxture of cycling." 
Indeed, there seems to be far more American depth than there was a decade or two ago. 
Julich has already won two major international races this year. George Hincapie, Armstrong's top lieutenant on what's known now as the Discovery Channel team, was second at the prestigious Paris­Roubaix race this month. 

Cosimo's Hair Salon 
Spedalizing in great hainuts, Expert «:olor and highlighting. Student dis«:ounts now available. (Shampoo, Hainut, & Style) For Men-$20 For Women-$30 
Tel. 277-1875 Lo«:ated near «:ampus at 1707 South Bend Ave (US 23) 


Students Fly Cheaper 
summer travel, study abroad & more 
Sample airfares from South Bend: Sample airfares from Chicago: 
Atlanta $168 Toronto $170 
Denver $168 London $535 
New York $168 Rio de Janeiro $672 
San Diego $233 Sydney $1020 

• 
Hook-up with friends, just blocks from your favorite night spots 

• 
Bronze ·yourself at our pool 

• 
Keep your car clean in our carports 


www.aimco.com 1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 
Bring this coupon in to receive 
1 MONTH FREE* 
* Restrictions Apply Expires 4/30/05 
#1 NO HOT SPOT 

TONIGHT, April 21 s-tl 6:30-8:30pm McGlinn Hall's 24-Hour Loungel 
Free Cookies and Papa John's Breadsticks! Trivia and Prize Giveaways! 
Sponsored by McGlinn Hall and Irish Fighting for St. Jude Kids 

St. Jude Children~s Research Hospital 
ALSAC • Danny Thomas, l'ound,•r 

---~----------------., 

Thursday, April 21, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
-

NHL 
Start of season tnay be delayed 
Deal with players' union preferred over replacements 
Associated Press 
NHW YOilK-If tho Nlll. sna­son is to Lwgin on limn, it will havn to I..H~ with a new collective bargaining agnwrnent in placn -not with replacement players. 
NIIL commissioner Gary Hottman said Wednesday that the spason won't start in October if a nnw agreement has­n't bonn reached with the union, but left open the possibility that replacenwnt players would be considered if no deal is struck. 
Tho league continues to plan on having hockey in October, Hottman said. 
"If wn do not have a new col­lndivn bargaining agreement, wo will not open tho season on tinw," Hottman said. "If that is an «~VI'ntuality at that juncture, we will have to start again on what options we will pursue." 
Tlw likelihood of replacement players taking the ice has dimin­islwd greatly since the last hoard nweting on March 1 . 
At that time, Bettman and sev­eral t«~am ropresentatives stressed that they expnct«~d next s«Hlson to begin on tinw. The goal has always bnen to make a deal with tho union, but it was dear that other options were being considered. 
H«~plaenment players appeared to be the most plausi­hlo alternative. 
But having become the first major sports league in North America to lose an entirn season to a labor dispute, the NIIL doesn't soem anxious to jump into that scenario-yet. 
"We have stayed out of the replacement player debate since we thought it was a poorly con­ceived and ill-advised strategy," Bob Goodenow, the executive director of the players' associa­tion. said in a statement. "Finally, it appears the League has come to realize it would be bad for the fans, the sport and the business. · 
"The NIIL should focus its efforts on reaching an agree­nwnt with the players." 
Bellman was adamant that the board was as unilied as ever and said there was plenty of support for all scenarios should a deal with the union fall out of reach. 
"We made it clear that we were going to explore all our options," Bettman said. "Exploring your options, doesn't mean you're doing it or not doing it. It doesn't mean it's a good idea or bad idea." 
Bettman wouldn't even use the term replacements, choosing "new players" instead. 
lie didn't set a deadline for a deal and he hasn't expressed one to Goodenow. The lockout was imposed last Sept. 16 after the expiration of the previous agreement with the union. ' 
Heprescntatives from all 30 NIIL teams met in New York for the second time in seven weeks. 
"It was really just a far-reach­ing discussion of all the alterna­tives and updating us," said Hichard Peddie, the president of Maple Leafs Sports and Entertainment. "In the end, everyone agreed 'let's keep focusing on trying to get a deal."' 
Both the NHL and the players' association said that no progress was made during a six-hour negotiating session on Tuesday. 
That was the lifth trip to the table for the sides since the sea­son was called ofT in February. Bettman said he was going to call Goodenow later Wednesday to set up a series of meetings. 
NIIL chief legal ofl"icer Bill Daly said he was hoping to set up a schedule of multiple meet­ings per week over the next cou­ple of weeks. Negotiations could even take place in Austria, where the hockey world cham­pionships will be held from April 30-May 15. 
"They're inching toward an agreement," Dallas Stars presi­dent Jim Lites said. "We're on the same page. We're talking concepts that maybe a year ago were pretty foreign to both sides." 
In an April 4 meeting, the union came up with an idea that addresses the relationship between player costs and league revenues. 
The concept, discussed exten­sively Tuesday, contains an upper and lower salary cap that would rtoat among the teams depending on revenues from year to year. Financially suc­cessful years would increase the thresholds, but poor seasons would lower them. 
Where the numbers fall and what the range would be is not close to being agreeable. 
"The union said for as long as anyone can remember that they'll never, ever, ever agree to a cap, but is now negotiating a cap. That's the good news," Bcttman said. "The bad news is there is no economic reality to what we need. But at least now we're in a negotiating session where it's dollars and cents." 


SENIORS... 

MLB 

Montero suspended 10 days for drug use 
Rangers pitcher is third player to test positivefor enhancers 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK Texas Hangers minor league pitch­er Agustin Montero was sus­pended for 10 days Wednesday, becoming the third player to test posi­tive under m a j o r league baseball's new policy on per­formance­en-chanc­ing drugs. 
Agustin, who has never ap-peared in a major league game, failed the drug test while he was on the Rangers' 40-man ros­ter during spring training. 
lie was designated for assignment on April 2, when opening-day 

rosters  were  "We support him."  The suspen­ 
set, then sent  sion. which will  
outright to Frisco of the Double-A  Buck Showalter Rangers manager  be served immediately, is without pay  
Texas League.  and  will  cost  
Be  is  0-1  him $4,918.  

with a 5.63 EHA in eight If Montero had tested posi­innings over five relief tive while on the minor appearances. league roster, he would have 
Texas manager Buck been suspended for 15 Showalter said Agustin games. planned to appeal the sus­Tampa Bay outfielder Alex pension, and general man­Sanchez was the first player ager John Hart thought it suspended under the new 

major league program, starting his 10-day ban April 3. 
Colorado outfielder Jorge Piedra was suspended for l 0 days starting April II. 
This is the l"irst season in which players are penalized for l"irst offenses. 
In 2004, players testing positive for the first LimP were sent for counseling and their names were not revealed. 
was "really possible" that the positive t(~st might have resulted from a legally pre­scribnd medication. 
"We support him," Showalter said bdorP thP Hangers played at Tampa Bay. 
Gene Orza, chief opnrating officer of the players' asso­ciation, did not return a telephone call seeking com­ment. 
A 27 -year-old right-han­der, Montero spent four years in the Oakland organi­zation and five in the Los Angeles Dodgers systnm before signing with Texas last Nov. 19. 
lie began this season with a 28-22 record and 4.38 ERA in 28 starts and 234 relief appearance in the minors, then went 0-1 with a 7.15 EllA in 11 1-3 innings over 11 games during spring training with the Hangers. 
Ilis contract calls for him to be paid at a yearly rate of' $90,000 while in the minors 
and the mini­
mum $316,000 
in the majors. 

iUna noche de DRAMA y MELODRAMA! 
The Department of Romance Languages proudly presents 
L# faeDte tie !()S S#U~flS hy "M.;Jrt,;) '.l?rkHJt~s 
!{I.e·;)/.~] 
(A play presented by the students of ROSP 459, under the direction of Kelly Kingsbury) 
-and­
;/{!J)()"r pr()hfhftf(), ;Jb ~'ri~iw1l. sm1p c)pt:r;) (written and produced by the students of ROSP 252/FTT275/ILS275 under the direction of Elena Mangionc-Lora and Kevltl Barry) 

.-­

For non-Spanish speakers too! 
(All members of the audience will have a plot stunmary in English) 
Tickets $5 at the dom· F•·iday 4/22 @ 7:30 Saturday 4/23 @ 2:30 y 7:30 Sunday 4/24 @ 2:30 Carey Auditm·ium in the Hesburgh Library 
Both presentations made possibLe through the generous support of ISLA 
Trying To Decide What To Do Next Year? 
Become aHolv Cross Associate 
I·! 


APPIV Now!
[S


email: hca@nd.edu phone: 1-5521 
h~:i/hol crossassociates.nd.edu 
Thursday; April 21, 2005

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 


Small Roberts has big start to season 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -The February trade that brought Sammy Sosa to Baltimore provided the Orioles with a potent slugger who leads the team in home runs. 
His name is Brian Roberts. 
When the Orioles sent Jerry Hairston and two minor leaguers to the Chicago Cubs for Sosa, they acquired a cleanup hitter with 574 career homers. includ­ing 66 in 1998. The trade also ended a longtime duel between Roberts and Hairston, who had competed for the starting job at second base for four consecutive seasons. 
There was no animosity between Roberts and Hairston, just a fierce competition that ulti­mately wore on both of them. Now that Hairston is gone, Roberts knows that a few hitless performances won't send him to the bench. That's one big reason why he's gotten off to a torrid start, one that has enabled the Orioles to press the Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees in the American League East. 
Through the first 2 1/2 weeks of the season, Roberts had at least one hit in every game and ranked in the top 10 in 11 key offensive categories, including batting average, on-base per­centage, slugging percentage, triples and steals. He also had six home runs in his first 14 games, a pace that would enable the 5­foot-9, 178-pounder to eclipse Sosa's best season. 

Roberts, whose previous career high in homers was five, dismisses his surprising power surge as a "fluke," and laughs at the suggestion that he will finish with more than 20 home runs. But he expects to continue to drive the ball with authority, thanks to the experience he's gained since his rookie season in 2001. 
And because he doesn1 have Hairston to worry about. "That's part of the comfort level, of course," he said. 
Others are more emphatic about the effect the trade had on the success of Roberts, who was slated to begin last season on the bench before Hairston broke a finger in spring training. Roberts flourished as a starter, but fig­ured he was a slump away from becoming a backup. 
That fear was erased by the Sosa trade. 
"I think a lot was taken off his shoulders. We had two pretty good second basemen," Orioles manager Lee Mazzilli said. "Not knowing who's going to play and whose job it is, that's tough. Sometimes it's addition by sub­traction." 
Sheffield vvill not be disciplined 
Slugger exonerated for behavior during Fenway Park scuffle 
Associated Press · 
NEW YORK -Yankees out­fielder Gary Sheffield won't be punished for his role in a scuf­fle with fans at Fenway Park last week. 
Bob Watson, baseball's vice president in charge of disci­pline, made the decision Wednesday, a day after meet­ing with Sheffield and the right fielder's agent at Yankee Stadium. 
"It just proves that I was right," Sheffield said before Wednesday night's game at Toronto. ''I'm just glad I was an example of how to handle a sit­uation without making it worse or hurting the Yankees or any organization for that matter, or any sport. 
"It wouldn't have been just me involved if I would have went into the stands, it would have been my teammates. I would have put them at risk. I'd have put the organization at risk and also baseball," he said. 
The commissioner's office said Watson concluded the fan reached over the barrier near the right-field corner during the April 14 game in Boston and "struck Sheffield on the head as he was attempting to· field a ball in play." 

"Sheffield in response swung his arms in an effort to extri­cate himself from the situation and to avoid further abuse, then completed the play and returned to confront the fan," the statement continued. "At that time no further altercation occurred, Hed Sox security stepped in promptly and order was restored. Under the cir­cumstances, Bob Watson con­cluded that discipline for Sheffield was not warranted." 
Commissioner Bud Selig, in a statement, said: "We do not condone any interaction between fans and players whether initiated by either fans or players. I am pleased that Gary Sheffield showed restraint in not overreacting to the improper and clParly aggres­sive action of the fan in ques­tion." 
On Tuesday, Boston policP filed applications for misde­meanor criminal charges against two fans -one who allegedly made contact with Sheffield and another who allegedly tossed a beer at him. A clerk magistrate will deter­mine whether a disorderly con­duet charge is warranted against the rans, police spokesman Officer John Boyle said. 
The Hed Sox officials revoked season tickets from Christopher House, the fan who appeared to make contact. The othf'r fan has not been identified. but the Bed Sox said he will not be able to buy tickets for gamPs at Fenway this season. 

Are vou asophomore Accounting Maior looking tor great pav and a tremendous business experience;~ 
If so, Get a Job at The Observer! The Observer is now accepting applications tor Controller! 
If you're interested or have questions, please contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu or Michael Flanagan at mflanag 1@nd.edu. 
Thursday, April 21, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
shape and work on his basket­offering him scholarships, encc," Dokes said. "It taught tournament whom Dukes said ball skills. including Kentucky. In the end, me how to be stronger with the he felt could give him some
Dokes 
"Torn Debates got my weight continued from page 28 
cut back and put dedication into me," Dokes said. "He got simply. me up to work out everyday in 
"In one word, he's domi­the summer." nant," the former Notre Dame With Debates' help, Dokes wide rneeiver and current law grew into an excellent high studnnt said. "lie's the best big school player. By the end of his man I've seen to date in junior season, colleges flooded Bookstore." Dokes with scholarship offers. 
Basketball did not always Dokes chose Ball State over conw easily for Dokcs, though. Purdue and signed an early In his freshman year at South letter of intent. Bend's Hiley High school, The sudden departure of Ball Dokns struggled and became State's head coach towards the 
frustrated  with  end of Dokcs'  
tlw game.  senior  year  
"I was always the overweight kid," Dukes said.  "[Playing in Turkey] taught me how to be  complicated matters, though. Ron  
"I wasn't in good  ·stronger with the ball  was left scram­ 
enough shapn to really do what I wanted to do.  and go to the boards harder."  bling to find a place to play. On the recom­ 
/\nd my coordina­ mendation  of  
tion  hadn't  Ron Dokes  an  ex-team­ 
caught up with my feet yet."  CoCoa Butter player  mate, Dokes elected to  
/\II  that  enroll  in  
changed  when  Lincoln  Trail  

head coach Torn Debates Junior College in southern arrived at Hiley l'or Dokcs' Illinois. sophomore year. Debates rec­Dokes excelled at Lincoln ognized Dokes' potential and Trail. After two seasons, sever­oncouraged him to get into al Divison I schools were again though, Dokes chose Duquesne. Duquesne attracted Dokcs because of both its bas­ketball and academic opportu­nities. 
"They graduate their players and get the best out of them on the court," Dokes said. "My biggest goal was to go to a school where I knew I would graduate within that two year time I had." 
Dokes made an immediate impact at Duquesne. lie start­ed at center for the Dukes for two years, averaging 10 points and five rebounds per game. 
Duquesne coach Danny Nee loved having Dokes in the paint for his squad. 
"Hon is a bull around the basket," Nee said. "He is real strong on the boards and a · great finisher inside." 
Dukes graduated from Duquesne in 2004 and traveled overseas to play professionally in Turkey, where he finished the season averaging 18 points and nine rebounds per contest. Dokes credits his experience in Turkey with making him a much tougher basketball play­er. 
"It was a real good cxperi­ball and go to the boards hard­er. They play dirty, basically. You need to bring your football pads." 
If there is anything stronger than Dokcs' inside game, though, it just might be his character. It seems everyone who knows Dokes admires him for the type of person he is off the basketball court. 
"He is maybe a better person than what he is as a basketball player even," Debates said. "I can't say enough good things about him. I just love the kid. Every time I sec him I tell him how proud I am of him." 
Dokes' collegiate coach echoed the sentiments of' his high school one. 
"Ron is the best guy I ever recruited," Nee said. "He was a model citizen for our team." 
Even the other members of CoCoa Butter, who have only known Dokes for about a month, don't have enough good things to stay about their new teammate. 
"Hopefully we can win some more games and continue to play together," Brown said. 
Standing in the way of that goal is the one big man in the trouble -former Irish for­ward Harold Swanigan. CoCoa Butter will face Swanigan's Anthony Travel squad Thursday night at 8:15 at the Bookstore. 
Dokes is hoping that his team can develop better chemistry and make a run at the champi­onship. · 
"Athleticism can only take you so far," he said. 
In August, Dokes plans on returning to Europe for anoth­er season. 
lie hopes to sign with a team in either France or Italy and ultimately return to tlw United States to play on an even big­ger stage. 
"I'd like to reach the NB/\ within the next year or two," Dokes said. "If I have a good season next year, I am definite­ly going to look to put my name in the draft." 
For now though, Dokes is focusing on his goal of cutting down the Bookstore nets with his teammates on Sunday. With Dokes on its side, CoCoa Butter will be a tough team to beat. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 


Sweet 16 
continued from page 28 
walk1~d away with the champi­onship. llowever, veterans will tell him that oncn the Sweet 16 twgins, anything can happen. 
"Each year we go out there with the mindsct go out and have a good time," said Justin Funk of We Get Wet, the No. 2 seed in the Swent 1(>. "Anything can happen in Bookstore -we know because we've seen just about every­thing that could happen in the last three years." 
jeopardize lour chances of winning! in any way," he said. "We try not to be too intense on the court but obviously these next couple games we'll have to bring our A-game." 
By the Sweet 16, the remain­ing teams are the ·best out of more than 600 entrants, as Joe McClyde of No. 5-seeded Looking For a Sponsor at the Moment observed. 
"I think it gets serious at this point," he said. "It becomes more fun when you're battling from the beginning to the very end. It's all out, everyone's putting everything into it for who's a better team. You want 

Even the Sweet 16 keeps the spirit of Bookstore Basketball alive, with a high level of com­petition also l'ocusing on hav­ing-fun. 
"I just think its great going out there and seeing every­body come out to Bookstore to watch everybody play," said Tom Exner of Anthony Travel, the No. 11 seed. "Nobody's even watching a particular game at times, everyone's out there just to have a good time and I think that's what book­store all about." 
Ndukwe agreed. "We like to mess around, but we obviously don't want to 
...... 
·~ 
...... 
~· ...... \~· ...

• ""''HJ.,.,.,{I.: \ 

h e 1\J o t r··.e D a 111 e 
y N y 
Shostakovich, Symphony no. 5 
Conrnto 1110\'I'IIH~IIIs I>\' \lt'IIdPlssohn, Tchaikovskv. and SarasaiP
' 0. 
wilh wi111H~rs ol' the 200G Conrnlo Competition 


Students Call Before You Pack!!! Free delivery on boxes and supplies 


A(hnis~ion: $6 Ccneral, $3 l\D/S~H~ Facuity) S:3 Students 
We also •upplies At 1\!aln and MtKiul<)' Stlf StOI'IIG• 70'1 F McKinley Ave Mishawaka. IN 4b545 
l~f)~-J 

Cheap boxes!!! As low as $1.00 
Tel: 574-256-5339 
Climate control, 24 hours acceu, video ourvcillonce, resident mBOoger, grcot rates ... 
·­


Friday, April 22, 2005 • 8 p.m. Leighton Concert Hall 
to win it at least once before you graduate ... you thrive off having the crowds there. " 
Funk's team has received special attention due to this year's addition of varsity bas­ketball player Jordan Cornette. 
"It might change the way other teams play lusl." he said. "But the rest of us four all know how to play, so it's not like he has to go out there and play like he's in a Big East 
game  or  anything  ...  its fun  
though, he's  awesome  to play  
with."  

Players from We Get Wet are on familiar territory, though, having made it to the Elite Eight twice and the Final Four once. 
Like the other remaining teams, all are focused on their matchup in the Sweet 16. Exner and Anthony Travel arc looking at a challenging game against CoCoa Butter, the No. 6 seed. 
"Our strength is Harold Swanagan." Exnn said. "Everyone tries to guard him at once so it makes everything 
easier for the rest of us. Obviously I think the game tomorrow will be awesome be c a u s P I k n o w tIH~ te a m we're playing has a guy about his size." 
The level of competition is at its highest in these finals rounds. 
"Everyone's been taking it pretty seriously," Exner said. "We'll be up for any chal­lenge." 
We Get Wet is confident in their ability, however. 
"Once we pi'H Jordan on the team this year, it changed the dynamic," Funk said. "/\t this point, we really do expect to be there at the end." 
The other remaining teams arc No. 3 Jack's Shorts, No. 4 State Theatre, No. 7 Platinum FUBU 2.0, No. 8 Pudgy's Chicken, No. 9 Training Day, No. 10 liP, No. 12 Linebacker Lounge, No. 13 Hannah's Storm. No. 14 Blue Collar Bailers. No. 15 Anarchy 99 and No. 16 Mean Girls. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Thursday, April21, 2005

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 

Akron 
continued from page 28 
The team's lone loss came Tuesday in game two of a dou­bleheader with DePaul in which the Blue Demons came away with a 7-4 comeback vic­tory. 
Notre Dame won game one of that doubleheader. and stretched its winning streak to 19 games before falling to DePaul in game two of the series. 
The Irish are anxious to get another winning streak started, 
right now," Gumpf said after Tuesday's game. "She has a confidence in her ability to get out of any jam. She trusts her pitches and has shown that she has the ability to consis­tently strikeout opposing bat­ters." 
Stenglein and the rest of the Irish pitching staff face a tall order in the Akron lineup, which features both power and average. 
First baseman Kelly Quigley leads the Mid-American Conference with 11 home runs on the season -eight more than the co-leaders for Notre 
Dame in that cat­
egory. 

and equally anx­"She has a Shortstop Sara ious to be back Zilles has been a
confidence in her
home again. terror on the 
"We're really ability to get out of basepaths, hitting hoping to take any jam.. " for a .359 aver­these games this age and stealing week and next a MAC-high 19
Deanna Gumpf
week and really steals in 29 use them as Irish coach attempts. And the 
momentum as we head toward the Big East tournament," Gumpf said. "I hope that [loss against DePaul) is a wake-up call for our girls that they need to play hard every single game down the stretch." 
One player who has had little trouble consistently answering the call for the Irish has been senior pitcher Steffany Stenglein. Stenglein is 15-4 on the season. with an ERA of 
1.27 and a commanding 191 strikeouts in 121 2/3 innings pitched. Opponents are hitting just .141 against her, and she recently pitched an eight inning gem as Notre Dame beat DePaul 2-1 in game one Tuesday. 
"[Stenglein] is very confident 
Zips are equally 

represented on the mound, with a pitching staff led by Tina McCauley 
(1.60 ERA). 
Akron comes into Ivy Field after winning one of its last three games against confer­ence foe Miami (Ohio). The Zips are in a bit of a slump, losing five of their last eight games. 
Notre Dame remains at home following the Akron double­header to face St. John's in a two-game series on Friday and Seton Hall in a doubleheader Saturday. Game one against the Zips is scheduled for 3 
p.m. today at Ivy Field. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 




Belles look to utilize freshman 
By KATE SERYAK 
Sports Writer 
The Belles take on the Pilots of Bethel College today in their first non-conference match since March. 
Younger members of the Belles' team expect to compete tomorrow, some in their very first regular season match of their careers. 
"We're changing our lineup to give other people a chance to play and give some others a rest. We're just hoping to have a fun match tomorrow, its not going to be as intense as our other matches," captain Kristen Palombo said. They will be play­ing in a match that actually counts and not just an exhibi­tion." 
However, the Belles hit a rough patch earlier this month, losing MIAA conference matches to Kalamazoo, Adrian and Calvin. 
'These last couple losses have hopefully taught us that we're making too many mistakes and hopefully well learn from these mistakes," -Palombo said. "We know we need to work on vol­leys, coming in to the net and attacking more. Hopefully we'll have more confidence for the next couple matches." 
The Kalamazoo and Adrian losses were difficult because they were both 9-0 matches. 
"We're at the point right now where we've lost so many, it's hard to think of winning. It's hard to want it, hard to step up and win.. " Palombo said. "It's easy to get down on yourself when you're not on a winning streak, when you're not playing as well as you can play." 
Despite their recent misfor­tunes, the Belles are still trying to be positive, recognizing that they can learn from these losses 
position, and third baseman John Hunter singled up the middle to
Purdue 
knot the game at seven. After two and a half scoreless 
continued from page 28 
extra innings, third baseman 
The Irish rallied from two down in the bottom of the eighth to take a 7-6 lead. but ace closer Ryan Doherty couldn't finish the Purdue Boilermakers. Doherty walked the first Boilermaker in the top of the ninth. . 
Purdue rightfielder Neal Gorka then laid down a sacrifice bunt to advance the runner to scoring Brett Lilley led of the bottom of the 12th with a walk. and Cooper sent the game-winner sailing over the left field fenee. Freshman righthander Tony Langford was the winning pitch­er. 
He nabbed his first win of the season after pitching two-thirds of an inning and shutting down the Boilermaker hitters. 
and keep improving. 
"This match will be a good chance for people to work on the areas they need improvement in. areas where they know they need work," Mikulyuk said. 
The team also believes their problems stem from this year's lack of experience. 
"There arc girls in top posi­tions that haven't played colle­giate sports before," Mikulyuk said. "This season has been about working to get them that experience and we've been working hard. Now, we hope to put in a good showing at the con­ference championship." 
Nevertheless, the Belles remain confident with two more conference matches to go in the regular season and the confer­ence tournament fast approach­ing. 
Contact Kate Seryak at kseryak@nd.edu 
First baseman Matt Edwards and Lilley continue to pace the Irish on the ofl'ensivc side. Lilley l'inishcd with two hits against Purdue. Centerfieldcr /\lex Ncttey broke out of a slump \\ith a lour­hit game. Notre Dame improved to 21-15 and droppPd Purdue to 11-22. 
Tonight at 6 p.m., the Irish will take the diamond at Frank Eck Stadium to face the Valparaiso Crusaders. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

The organizers, C.F. Delaney, Alexander Hahn, and Peter 
Holland. of"Arcadia at Notre Dame" wish to thank the 
College of Arts and Letters, the College of Science. the 
Graduate School. the Boehnen Fund for Excellence in the 
Arts (ISLA). the Honors Program, and the Kaneb Center 
for Teaching and Learning for their SU19POrt 
Ir -:-(r r ~ r r 
of the Conference and related initiatives. 
i _) I_ '=' u1 c::! J J J r ~ 
Nature, Science, and Art 
Friday, April 22 Nature and Science: The Changing Saturday, April 23 Nature and Art: From Scientific Picture of the World Classicism to Romanticism 
Afternoon Session Morning Session 
12:45-1:00 Introduction C. F. Delaney (Philosophy, Notre Dame) 9:30-1 0:00. Continental Breakfast-Browning Cinema 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 1 0:00-11 :30 Chair: Alex Hahn (Mathematics, Notre Dame) 
(Notre Dame) Speaker: Enoch Brater (English, University of Michigan) 1:00-2:30 Chair: 
Katherine Brading "Playing for Time in Stoppard's Arcadia" (Philosophy, Notre Dame) 11:45-1:15 Chair: Greg Kucich (English, Notre Dame) 
Speaker: Jeremy Butterfield (Philosophy, Oxford University) Speaker: Anne Mellor (English, UCLA) 
"1809: Halfway through the Woods" "'Et in Arcadia ego': Byron, Humphrey Repton, and Romantic Irony" 
2:45-4:15 Chair: Anja Jauernig (Philosophy, Notre Dame) 
Afternoon Session 
Speaker: Bas van Fraassen 3:00-4:30 Chair: Fred Rush (Philosophy, Notre Dame) (Philosophy, Princeton University) 
Speaker: Richard Eldridge 
"Knowledge in Arcadia: 'First Fine 
(Philosophy, Swarthmore College ) 
Rapture' &Disenchantment" "Modernity, Values, and the 
4:30-6:00 Chair: Ani Aprahamian (Physics, Notre Dame) Internationalization ofQuest Romance" 
Speaker: Tony Leggett, (Nobel Laureate in 4:45-6:15 Chair: Gary Gutting (Philosophy, Notre Dame) 
Physics, University of Illinois) "Why can't time run backwards? Speaker: Charles Larmore A view from modern physics" (Philosophy, University of Chicago) 
"Reason, Feeling, and Imagination: 
Buffet dinner for those going to the play 
Romantic Critiques ofthe Enlightenment" 
Great Haii-Hesburgh Center 
Evening Session 

7:30 Performance ofArcadia 

Thursday, April 21, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 

HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon

JJl1Jl~~JJIT1lR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words 
l 


':I

KAROC 


I I I 

CQOOS Tribune Media ServJcea, Inc All R1ghts Reserved 
I_"" be ~r7 
CEPEN 
j 
~?~-~6 

rJ r 
~Jll4 
"'· 21 ' 
EEDDAC 
WHEN THE: WINDOW CAME DOWN ON
CIJ 
HIM, HE: SAID IT 
www 1umble com 
WAS A--­
ENNKLE 
Now arrange the c~rcled letters lo form the surprise answer. as

rIJ I I 
suggested by the above cartoon 

Answer:"( I I I]" IN THEl I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' I Jumbles WHINE LOFTY INVADE AWHILE s Answer: What happened to his ski vacation after he took a spill -IT WENT "DOWNHILL" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 43 Kind of acid used to make

1 Airspeed ratio soap
indicator 44 Russia/China
10 Full of activity 
border river 15 One way to 
45 Prefix withrepent? 

conscious 16 Soprano 
46 More terrible 

Fleming 
47 Cause for pause 17 A commttment 
50 By the agencymust be made ofhere 

52 Take in slowly19 Gractous loser 
53 It'll never fly 20 "Sad 
56 "When We 21 Low Were Very Young" writer
22 Support for a bill 60 Old film vamp
24 Tsuris, so to Pol a speak 64 Stuffy stretch 26 Pacific arm 
67 1990's sitcom 32 Lexicon topic 
68 Worthy of 36 Post-O.R. stop, respect perhaps 
69 Primed 37 Catalog abbr. 70 Gulfweeds 
38 Made waves? 
39 They're spotted DOWN on beaches 1 Route revealers 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
ASA I RIACLU,TWA 
G U I D 0 R A I N E A T F I R E S I G N T H E A T R ATF.SKUA.EASE 
-O.CAMERAS 
F A R I N A D 0 T E L LJIIII LACTI CARES.OWL 
A R E S 0 A.S 0 I E 
P E R. A P S I S 8 0 S S A IIIIE R R A T A D U S T E R 
A S S A I L S S A M 0 Allll 
T H E N C E. N E ~ro-T S U 
E A R T H S H A T T E R I N G 
I DVEICOPTIABO I L 
N E E R E S S 0 L I N T Y 
2 Straddling 3 Madison Avenue award 4 Son of William 
the Conqueror 5 Hand holder? 6 Pamplona 
pronoun 7 Goatee, e.g. 8 Rubik of cube 
fame 9 Essex contemporaries 10 Question after an accident 11 Track 
transaction 12 "One" on a one 13 Bubkes 14 Philosopher for 
whom a paradox is named 
18 Unseasoned 23 Seasoned 25 Morales of 
movies 26 Certain rifle stand 27 Source of some 
stomachaches 28 Schoolbag item 29 Athenian 
meeting places 30 Wonderland message 31 It contains tracks 33 Cellulose fiber brand 
34 Big name in insurance 35 Pele's given 
name 
WILLSHORTZ 

40 Capital on the  53 It can come  61 Wedgelike  :  
Dnieper  before after  metal strips in a ­ 
41 Bitterness  54 SQ:Jare _  machine shop  
42 Camera component 48 Place for a concession  55 Pac Ten p..Jwerhouse 57 Sprawls  62 Caramel candy from HershtJy 63 Midmonth time -" 65 "First Blood"  
49 High-culture entertainment  58 Pathfinder's p&rent  director Kotcheft 66 Nonsharing  
51 Put on  59  'acte  type  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). _ Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON TillS I>AY: Joey Lawrence, 29; Don Matrmgly, 44; Clint Howard, 46; Jessica Lange, 56 Happy Birthday: Make some interesting changes this year to your appcarann>, personal life and direction. This is the time to leap into something you have wanted to do for some time. Tic up loost' ends so that nothmg will stand m your way. There must he no mmc sitting hack anu wmttng. Your numbers are R. 12. 29.33,39,41 ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can make some adjustments to your work and how you dee~de to proceed wrth it. Don't expect cveryont• to get what 11 rs you arc trying to accompli~h Soml·one you mt"ct through wor~ may have a greater rntercst m you than you realize ••• TAtiRliS (April 20-May 201 Everythrng is turnrng around for xuu. so makl• personal ad.tustmt·nts to surt your new lrfcstyle. Update your look and det:rdc how to utrlrzc one of your rdcas 111 order to prospt•r ( 'hrldren may play an important rok m your life today. •·•••• GEMINI (l\1uv 21-.June 20): lk careful Although evcrythrng appear' to be going your way, someone is trying to sabotage your game plan lk prepared to change mid-stream if you must. An emottonal matter may lead to a change ol heart. •• CANCER (June 21-July 22): Get all the information you need to follow through with a plan you have. This is a great day to talk to friends or someone in the know. Getting together with friends could lead to a chance m~Jing with someone special. •••• LEO (july 23-Aug. 22): Your cash must be protected. Instant wins and losses are apparent but beware of a fast talker. Work hard, and you will prosper. Fast­cash schemes are too risky. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): You may find it difficult to deal with emotional matters today. A sudden change of plans may set you off. Be prepared to adapt. A chance to find true love or rekindle the tlame with your current partner is apparent. ••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone you know through work may have a surprise for you. A chance to come into some money isevident. A change of residence or alterations to your living arrangements wrll tum out well. ••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Today is about love and making the day memomble. A chance meeting will lead to an interesting tum of events Partnerships will bring you a deal you can't pass up. Someone you are close to may not be supportive. •••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-I>ec. 21): Put a little extra detail into something you are working on. It will give you the edge you need to present what you have done to others. A chance to do something creative or to use your voice man authoritative way will help you get ahead. •• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jun. 19): Travel or venture down the informatron hrghway, searching for knowledge that wrll enlighten you about something you want to pursue. Beginning to follow through wllh your dreams will bnghtcn your day. ••••• AQ(]ARitJS (.Jan. 20-Jo'cb. 18): Starrthmkmg about fmancral, kgal or health issues that have bct·n holdmg you back. A change at home may not he wanted but in the end II wrll he hctler for you. Elumnate whoever 11 IS that I!> creatmg all the confusion. ••• t•ISCES Well. 19-March 20): Takt• the advrct• of a good friend Once you accept that you have In change course, you wrll be on your way to a better future Unstable love can take its toll. ••• llirthday Huby: You arc charmmg, reliable and always mtercsted rn cnntnbutmg to something worthwhile. You are stubborn, but only when you know you arc right. You are a thinker and a doer. 
Eugc•nia'.\· Wc•b JiteJ: a.WnJadl•it·r.t'tJmj(Jr./im. t!ttlft'ninln.\'f.f'tJmjr~r r·r•,~fidenrlal consultations 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
-

D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ 
Address __~--~~--~~~~~~~--~~-----­
City ________ State _____ Zip~-----­
f 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, April 21, 2005 
BASEBALL 
NO tops Purdue, 9-7, in the 12th inning at Coveleski Stadium 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 

The list of classtcs at the Cove grew Wednesday night. Notre Dame defeated the .. -­
Purdue Boilermakers 9-7 in a 12­inning thriller at the single-A South Bend Silverhawks' Coveleski Stadium. Outfielder Craig Cooper smashed a mammoth walk-off home run to left field, sending the Irish to their fourth straight victo­
ry. 
Notre Dame and Purdue met for the 116th time Wednesday -the sixth-most Irish meetings against any single opponent. The Irish lead the all-time series 76-37-3 after Wednesday's dramatic victo­
ry. 
Starting Irish pitcher Wade Korpi threw six solid innings, allowing six runs -three earned. 
While the contest lasted slightly over four hours, it ranks alongside the 1989 season's memorable games at the Cove. 
That year, the Midwestern Collegiate Conference [the Irish's conference prior to joining the Big East] Tournament was held at 

Cove classic 
Coveleski Stadium. The week of the tourney, it poured. 
Games were pushed back until the teams were forced to compete at ungodly hours, and Irish ballplayers made an incredible run through the tournament ­winning four straight games in a span of 23 hours. The first of those four ended at 4:24 a.m. 
Wednesday. heading into the 12th inning, the time read nearly 10 p.m., and the way the relief pitchers were holding their own. the already-epic battle seemed destined for another late-night, early-morning finish. 
But Cooper wanted to get home. 
"That's the first time U've had a walk-ofl" home run]," said Cooper, who hit his fourth home run of the season. "It was awesome coming around third base, and you could see everyone crowded around home plate. It was just a great feeling." 
Cooper was mobbed at home plate as the Irish celebrated their seventh win over the Boilermakers in the 11-year Mainieri era. 
Early on, the ball simply didn't bounce Notre Dame's way. 
"Early in the game, I thought we had a lot of bad luck, bad hops," coach Paul Mainieri said. "We hit a lot of balls hard right at people." 
see PURDUE/page 26 


page 28 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish to host Akron after loss 
DePaul snapped team's 19-game win streak 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Senior Staff Writer 
The Irish will have an unfa­miliar foe waiting for them when they return to Ivy Field this afternoon. Notre Dame (30-9) will face Akron (20-19) in a doubleheader for the llrst time since 1990. 
"When I don't know a team all that well it makes me even more wary of them," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "You look at Akron's numbers and they're as good as anyone we've played. They have play­ers who hit the ball hard, speedy players who steal bases, and their pitchers arc good enough to keep them in the game. 
"We're going to have to be ready to play against them." 
Notre Dame recently fin­ished up a nine-game road trip in which the Irish went 8-1. 
see AKRON/page 26 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIV 
'U Got a Bad Draw' leads this year's Sweet 16 
Reigning champions confident in their ability to repeat 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Sixteen teams. Eighty play­ers. Eight thousand fans. But only cine team will be named c_hampion on April 24. 
And at this point. every group of five believes it could be them. 
"I think that this year's field is definitely a lot deeper than last year's," said Chinedum Ndukwe. captain of top-seed­ed U Got a Bad Draw. "I think we're having some good games trying to get to the finals, but I'm not worried about anyone in particular. If we play our style of basket­ball, I think we'll be hard to beat." 
Last year, Ndukwe's team 

-see SWEET 16/page 25 
Above, CoCoa Butter captain Lance Wescher takes ajznnp shot._ At right, Wescher's teammate Ron Oakes inbounds the ball.
•

PHOTOS BY DUSTIN MENNELLA 
en 
NHL
MLB

SMC TENNIS 
w 

NHL commissioner
Yankees slugger Gary 

1-c.:a Belles look to their 
Gary Bettman looks to
Sheffield will not be

z freshmen to play a criti­
make a deal with the
punished for last week's 

cal role against Bethel
cc 5 

players' union before
scuffle with Red Sox

College today on the
c.:J 

the new season can
fans at Feriway Park. 
road at 4 p.m. 
c c:c 

begin in October. 
page 23
page 24

"-ti page 27
en 
Oakes, professional star in Turkey, takes 'Butter' to Sweet 16 
By KEVIN BRENNAN Sports Wrirer 
Bookstore Basketball has found its newest star. 
Ron Dokes, a 6-foot-8 former starting center at Duquesne and professional star in Turkey, has manhandled oppo­nents while leading CoCoa Butter to the tournament's Sweet 16. 
On Tursday, Dokes had I 0 points and eight boards as CoCo a But t e r d o \\ nP d Malicious Prosecution in tlw round of 32. The big man Pntertained the crowd with his physical play and four thun­derous dunks. 
CoCoa Butter teammate Bobby Brown said Dokes' game could be summed up 
MLB 
Rangers minor league pitcher Agustin Mon­tero has become the third player in the league's system to be suspended for drug use. 
page 23 

CYCLING 
USA Cycling is look­ing to replace its star power after Lance Arm­strong announced his retirement plans follow­ing this year's Tour de France. 
page 22 
see DOKES/pagc 25 
MLB 
Nomar Garciaparra was carried out on a stretcher during Wed­nesday'.s game against St. Louis. 
page 17 













