
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Members approve future budget 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
New\ Writer 
MPmhPrs of tlw Council of HPprnsPntalives 1~xertod their most powPrful authority when thPy approwd tlw Studnnt Union budgnt for tho 200:1-06 school ynar at Monday's me1~ting. 
This ynar's discn~tionary alloea­tions totaled nl'arly $361,000, a figun~ slightly highnr than last yPar's allocalion of nnarly $:\:17,000. 
But funding rl'quosts far PXCPndnd tho amount of money availabln. Studnnt Union organi­t.alions rnq unstnd ovor $5 77 ,I 00 in funds, almost douhiP the total amount allocat1~d. 
Tlw Club Coordination Council appPaiPd filr morn funds fin· cam­pus dubs and organizations as a response to an increase in the numbPr of dubs from 166 to 174 and a twofold increase in the numbnr of activo members. 
Clubs and organizations were guarantnnd $252,987 for the year. but they appnaled f(Jr addi­tional funds totaling $98,632 over the hard-line alloeation. The Finandal Management Board agrnnd to allocate $30,000 more than the guarantoed alloeation, culling down the original appeal by 20 pereont. 
The budgnt passed unanimous­ly. 
In addition to passing next year's budget, members debatod Monday betwnen two possible options filr improving online book 
see COR/page 6 

Notre Dame prays for conclave, guidance 
By JULIE BENDER 
Senior StatfWriter 
Black smoke unfurled from the roof of tlw Sistine Chapel Monday, signaling to the crowds gathon~d in St. Peter's Square in Homo that deliberation about the next pope will continuo beyond the first day's votn. As the 115 cardinals isolatnd them­selves in the conelave for more prayer and silent vot­ing, over an ocean away, the Notre Dame community joined them in prayer. 
Students and other ml1m­bers of the Notre Damn community gathered in the Basilica yesterday for a Mass led by Father Petnr Hocca to celebrate the open­ing of the conclave and to pray for guidance from tlw lloly Spirit for the deciding cardinals. 
"The conclave to oleet the next popn whieh bngan !yes­terdayI is no doubt the most 
see CONCLAVE/page 6 



Faculty 
•

receive national honors 
By LISA SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
It may seem strange that a reward for teaehnrs producing outstanding work is the opportu­nity to take a break from tPac.h­ing. Ilownver, fdlowship awards enable Notre Dame professors Asma Afsaruddin, Ke-llai Yuan and Themsa DPlgadillo to do just that. 
A Carrwgie Seholars Fellowship of $100,000 from the Carnflgie Corporation of Nnw York will allow Afsaruddin, asso­ciate professor of' Arabie and lsl<unie studies in tlw elassil~s departrnont and follow in tlw Kroc Institute for lntornat.ional Peacn Studios, to c.onduc.t 1 S months of rosearch. Sho plans to spend tho 20()(,-07 school yPar writing tho manuscript for lwr book "Striving in tlw Path of God: Discursive Traditions on Jihad and the Cult of' Martyrdom." 
"By putting my rnsParch out in thn public sphere, I hopn to fur­thor IHnpower thosn voires whic~h havn protnstnd the anni'X­ation of Uw tPrm 'jihad' by radi­eal militants and dnnounrnd it as a gross departurn l'rom thn das­sical tradition." Al'saruddin said. 
Dnlgadillo, who is an assistant professor of l·:nglish with a spP­dalization in Latino litPrary and cultural studies, nntnrPd into a national WlliiJC'tition to win tlw Andrew W. MPllon Foundation Award. 
AdministnrPd by tlw Woodrow Wilson Nation<tl FPilowship Foundation (WWNFF), tlw award honored Delgadillo for assisting "talented junior fitc:ulty to pursuo scholarly rnsoan~h and writing over a year's timo so thny can attain tmlllrn morn nas­
see FACULTY/page: 6 

Ken Jennings defends trivia, generates laughs 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
A\sisl.lllf Nrws Editor 
This ".Jnopardy!" champion vis­ited Notre Danw Monday night, paeked De Bartolo I 0 I with :100 1)(10pln and sparked laughter and raueo us elwnring anw n g the crowd throughout his speech. 
Who is Ken Jennings'! 
Tlw Utah software engineer who narned $2,:122,700 during a 74-episodn. rive-month run on llw popular game show entnr­tairwd studnnts with a talk on the value of trivia and a simulated quiz game as part of the Student Union Board's AnTostal Week. 
As .Jennings dnseendnd tho stairs of the classroom he was groetnd with crins of "Yeah. Ken .lnnnings!" lin chueklnd and shook his hnad when he reached tho podium. 
"It's like Charlie Brown ... it's always Ken Jennings, l'irst and last namn," hn said. lin went on to say that hn would bn speaking "in defensn of trivia," something hn said ho didn't realizn needed a defenso until his lirst day tap­ing ".Jeopardy!" 
"You cannot say the t-word on the '.Jeopardy!' set," .Jennings said gravely, explaining that to .Jeopardy! contestants, nothing on their show is trivial. 
The word trivia comes from the Latin trivium, .Jennings said, meaning throo roads. In history, it was usnd to deseribH the threp, eentral eoursos that made up the ancient curriculum; however, it was also used to describe a crossroads, or a vulgar, common place. Thus, trivial has come to mean something basic or, literal­ly, commonplaco. 
"I think trivia gets a bad rap," .Jennings said. "I know it's easy for me to say that, what with the 
see JENNINGS/page 4 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, Aprill9, 2005 


INSIDE CoLUMN 

The mystique of the TC gate 
The University of Notre Dame. Prestigious in every sense of the word, face of American Catholicism the world over, bastion for athletic talent (what post-Lou Holtz years?). Yet sometimes I wonder if I'm sur­
Kyle Cassily 
rounded by a cam­pus crazier than the locker room of Sports Writer the Portland Trail Blazers. 
The gate on the road to Turtle Creek. You all know it, and some of you love it. Almost as much as the University loves its attractive fluores­cent orange and yellow patterns as well, it appears. It appears so often it seems the University would die with­out its presence. 
Honestly, some sort of University department needs to start keeping statistics on how many times this gate is torn down. These are the kinds of things the student body craves to know-forget which fencer stabbed which with a dull stick at Northeast Southern Springfield State. 
Sometimes I wonder if there is a room in the bowels of some campus building with an inconspicuous sign on the door that reads "TC Gate Room." And every Saturday morning, a hapless NDSP officer must trudge down a twisting set of stairs to reveal a treasure chest of orange and gold two-by-fours staring back at him. 
With the number of PhDs running amok through campus, one would think at least one would have a brainstorm and realize that maybe they don't build things from steel just for fun. That man would deserve his own Bud Light Real Men of Genius commercial. 
For those of you who cannot recog­nize the TC Gate, I have one of two explanations for this. The first is that you have never had the great fortune to stumble across one fully intact. Seeing the gate in its natural state on a weekend is like sighting Sasquatch at dinner (the line of girls at the yogurt machine does not count). 
The second is that fun is as foreign to you as the desert walls of Abu Dhabi. We've all seen your kind, working studiously just before close in the library on a weekend night. And don't use the "I have a huge paper due Monday" excuse -you are there every weekend. 
The Princeton Review should collar your kind with homing beacons like they do orcas, in an effort to create a new national ranking detailing schools with the largest populations of tools. But then again that would only attract more of your people, dragging an already depleted ND Fun Index farther into the cellar. 
But despite my recommendation to the opposite effect, the day the wooden TC Gate disappears will be a day of victory for the weekend moles huddled in Hesburgh cubicles. I will forever honor my right to stumble past the library, gate held high in hand, waving it as a beacon of free­dom for generations to come ... and to make a really sweet TC Gate beer pong table. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and sttives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO DO YOU THINK THE NEXT POPE SHOULD BE AND WHY? 






Aaron Thomas  Tim Rohman  Anna Pursley  Molly Sullivan  Kim Crehan  
senior off-campus  freshman Stanford  freshman Farley  freshman Farley  freshman Farley  
"Charlie Weis, because he,s Notre Dame,s savior.  "Juan Pablo Garcia, because of the name.,,  "Monk, because he,s out of a job.,,  "Kim, so she can put in a word for me with the big guy.  "Molly, because she told me I had to.,,  


South Woodham Ferrers, Essex, east of London, when the sausage came through the window and hit him on the nose, a spokesman for the Essex Ambulance Service said on condition of anonymity. 
"The man said he was making his way home after work and had the window down because it was such a nice afternoon," the ambu­lance spokesman said. 
"He said he saw a car coming the other way and felt a searing pain in his nose." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Arizona police department considers training monkey 
MESA, Ariz. -The Mesa Police Department is looking to add some primal instinct to its SWAT team. And to do that, it's looking to a monkey. 
"Everybody laughs about it until they really start think­ing about it," said Mesa Officer Sean Truelove, who builds and operates tactical robots for the suburban Phoenix SWAT team. "It would change the way we do business." 
Truelove is spearheading the department's request to purchase and train a capuchin monkey, considered the second smartest primate to the chimpanzee. The department is seeking about $100,000 in federal grant money to put the idea to use in Mesa SWAT operations. 
The monkey, which costs $15,000, is what Truelove envisions as the ultimate SWAT reconnaissance tool. 
Motorist injured by flying frozen sausage 
LONDON -A British motorist, driving home from work with his car window wound down, had his nose broken by a flying frozen sausage, an official said Monday. 
The 46-year-old man was driving near his home in 
TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY a: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
...J 
~ 
cc 
(,) 0 


HIGH 78 HIGH 66 HIGH 63 HIGH 62
..... 

LOW 70 LOW 58 LOW 39 LOW 35 IN BRIEF 
The conference "The Exorbitant: Emmanuel Levinas between Jews and Christians" will take place from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. today in McKenna Hall. The event is sponsored by the College of Arts and Letters' Program for Religion and Literature. 
ND Percussion Ensemble will give a free concert Wednesday at 
7:30 p.m. in Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
Director of the College of Engineering Cathy Pieronek will give a talk on science, math, engi­neering and Title IX Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in Welsh Family Hall. Food will be provided. 
The Invention Convention, a student-led competition, will take place Thursday fro111 5:30 p.m. 
· to 8:30 in the Giovanini Commons in the Mendoza College of Business. The competi­tion will be judged by the Entrepreneurship Club of Notre Dame. 
The women's softball team will play a doubleheader Thursday against Akron at Ivy Field begin­ning at 3 p.m. 
The men's baseball team will face Valparaiso at Eck Stadium at 6:05 p.m. Th'ursday. 
Farley Hall Players will present "You're a Good Man Charli"e Brown" Thursday to Saturday at 
7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets may be purchased at the LaFortune box office or at the door. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

~ 
HIGH 62 HIGH 55 LOW 33 LOW 32 
Atlanta 79 I 56 Boston 72 I 56 Chicago 79 I 61 Denver 73 I 45 Houston 76 I 65 Los Angeles 66 I 50 Minneapolis 71 1 48 New York 761 59 Philadelphia 82 I 59 Phoenix 89 I 64 Seattle 50 I 40 St. Louis 81 I 57 Tampa 79 I 50 Washington 71 156 
~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
"Jiresday, April I9, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

Metnbers discuss spring events 
By COLLEEN KIELTY 
N~ws Wri1rr 
Thn 200!'i-200h Saint Mary's CoiiPgt' Board of CovPrnanee (IHH;I nwt Monday to diseuss tlw nvnnts plar11wd for the rPrnainder of the school year and to lwgin planning 1wents for tlw Saint Mary's eommuni­ty nnxt yPar. 
StudPnt body president KnliyP Mitros thanknd tho Board for its lwlp with Spring l>ay on Cam pus Sunday. Ad 111 issions rom missioner /\nnin l>avis said Spring Day 
W II S a S II CCI! S S, n 0 ti II g t h0 
CoiiPge had n•cniVI'd a lot of positivi' fnPdback on the pan­Pis and tours from visiting studnnts and JHLrPnls. 
Mitros also informnd thn Board that Saint Mary's CoiiPgn will host its second llown tlw /\vnntrn Fundraisnr this Wndrwsday. This nvont will bmwlit tlw Ol'lkn for Civic and Social J·:ngagnnwnl and will honor Kathy Malone BPPinr. Class of I IJ6 1J, and (;ingl'r Francis, Class of 2006, for tlwir dPdiralion to sorviee. 
Thursday, tlw College will hn hosting SMC Tostal. an ali­day evPnt planned to coincide with the much-anticipated dmliration of tlw rww Student Cnntnr. 
Tho Studnnt Center will be having an open house, and tours of tlw nnw fadlities will bo availablo from I to 5 p.m. The Saint Mary's Board of Trustnns will hi! on campus for thn event, and there will be a mass at 4:15 p.m. in thn Hegina Chapel. 

The Blessing of tho Student Center. Noble Family Dining llall and /\lumnao Green will take plaen at 5:15 p.m. Arter thn eomedian, movies, games and the pienic planned for thn day, thn festivities will con­elude with a l'irnworks show that evening. 
President of the Student Divnrsity Board (SDB) Amanda Shropenshire reminded tho Board that SDB will be hosting speaker Maura Weis Friday in the Student Center at 5:30pm. 
Maura Weis, wife of incom­ing Notre Dame football coach Charlie Weis, will give a talk on autism. Their daughter, Hannah Weis. is globally developmentally delayed. 
Sophomore elass president Heidi Goeppinger announced her board has alrnady begun to meet and to work on dis­tributing a survey to doter­mine their elass' interest for events next year. The Class of 2007 is also eo-sponsoring Battle of the Bands Friday at 6 p.m. at Legends. 
Contact Colleen Kielty at ckieltO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Professor natned first successor to position 
By LAURA BAUMGARTNER 

News Writer 
Humanistic studies professor Gail Mandell madn Saint Mary's history Monday aftnr b1~ing namnd the seeond Bruno P. Sehlesingnr Chair in llumanistie Studios dur­ing her inauguration lnclure "Belizn Hevisitnd: Headings from a Work-in-Progrnss." 
Mandell is tho College's first suc­cessor in an nndownd chair. Vien President and dean of faculty Patriek White eommented on the importance or the oeeasion. noting the progression from having no endowed chairs 21 years ago to now naming a suecnssor. 
"Endowed chairs arn in sonw way a sign of' the strength or the College because this is monny that has been set aside to support these mom bers of faculty and their tnaehing and rosnarr.h," he said. 
/\!though tho inaugural leeturo honored Mandell, much of tho focus was on recognizing and thanking the College's l"irst endowed chair, professor emeritus Bruno SchiPsingPr, who rntirPd in December after 60 years or tPaeh­ing at Saint Mary's. Schlesinger was unable to attend the lecture due to illness, but he requested that assodatn professor and department chair Phil I licks read a statement he prepared. 
"I ofler Gail warm congratula­tions for this honor so richly deserved," Sehlesinger said in the statement. 
Schlesinger also offered some advice to Mandell in his state­ment. 
"When I rocnivnd thn nndowNI chair in 1<JSH. I>r. I lie key w.;knd if I would likn a dimwr in n~cogni­tion," he said. "hut I rPpliPd I would pn~rnr a resnrved parking spot in tlw Madalnva lot to prot1~cl me from thn South Bnnd wintnrs." Sehlesinger went on to say that lw hopnd Mandnll would dnmand t.lw sanw perks with hnr appoint.nwnt. 
White and Saint Mary's Prnsi(ll~nt Carol Ann Moorwy seler.ted Mandell as tlw nnxl Bruno P. S1:hlesinger nrHiownd ehair based on reeomnwndat.ions from faeultv in tlw humanistic studios dPflartnwnt as Wl'll as advien from otlwr endownd chairs. 
Mandell began tlw lnctun• by oxpn~ssing lwr gratitudl' and admiration of Schlnsing~~r. 
"lie know it was lhn job fiw nw, nvnn bnlim! I did," shn said, rnrall­ing how Schlnsingnr rneruitnd her in 11J7S to bn thn snmnd profi~ssor in the humanistic studios depart­mont. 
Some of the work that Mandl'll has donn ovnr tlw years was showeasnd at thn lncturn, whnn• she nmd selnetions from a hook she is currently writing about expnrinne1~s she had tnm·hing lilr thn Peaen Corps in Bnlizn during the 1960s and fmm lwr n~cnnt return trip. 
Sehlnsingnr enmted thn depart­ment in 1%6 as the Christian cui­turn proJ.,rrarn, and it wm; IWI'ntu­ally devnlopnd into humanistic. studies. 
Contact Laura Baumgartner at lbaumgO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April19, 2005 
8­

Jennings 
continued from page 1 
whole two and a half million [dollars] thing. Still, I think there are reasons why this stuff is cool." 
He described a recent encounter with A.J. Jacobs, edi­tor of "Esquire" and author of "The Know-It-All," a book docu­menting his experience of read­ing every volume of Encyclopedia Britannica. When Jennings asked Jacobs what his favorite facts were, Jennings recalled, Jacobs answered that opossums have 13 nipples and that Rene Descartes had a thing for cross-eyed women. 
Jennings laughed along with the crowd. 
"Seriously, though, why does he love facts like this?" Jennings then asked. "The same reason I do. One, they're strange. Second. they're true ... a great, weird fact like that can break up a humdrum life. 
"Even the most trivial-sound­ing trivia can bring us joy." 
He talked about various places in his life where trivia has had an impact. Recently, Jennings said, he was about to skip an article on the tsunami, having read so many already. However, the story began with an unusual trivia fact about the magnitude of the wave, which sparked his interest -so he kept reading. In the end, he said, he was compelled to click on a link to donate to the Red Cross. 
W.e are living in the age of information, Jennings said, a "time of increasing specializa­tion." People of different trades are tinding it harder and harder to communicate, Jennings said. This, he said, is where trivia comes in. 
"The things we call trivia are not trivia at all," Jennings said. "This is good old general knowl­edge ... the common web of cul­tural allusions anyone can understand. This helps us com­municate." 
Jennings then recalled one question from the "million" interviews he's given since his run on the show ended: how did he do it? The reporters are always disappointed, he said, to find out he doesn't have a secret. 
''I'm just always curious to know stuff," he said. "Not ev~ry­thing I learned came from a classroom. In fact, I don't think most things I learned came from a classroom." 
He pointed out that he's learned about D-Day while watching a movie, global warm­ing while reading a magazine at the dentist, the French and Italian languages while cooking with his wife, and even trains while watching "Thomas the Tank Engine" with his two-year­old son. 
"People are worried about the Information Age, but for some­one like me, who loves learning new things, there's never been a more exciting time to be alive," Jennings said, telling audience members they should be "learn­ing something new every day." 
He reminded the audience that answers on "Jeopardy!" come in the form of a question. 
"I think we should live our lives in the form of a question," Jennings said. "Even if it's just the number of nipples on an opossum, if it makes the world seem a little more strange, or wonderful, there's nothing triv­ial to me about that." 

After the speech, Jennings answered questions from the audience, admitting that one of his favorite facts is that the mother of Mike Nesmith, mem­ber of the "Monkees," invented Wite-Out. He also joked that the reason he wagered enough to remain just under the single­day earnings record for so long was "just to [annoy] Trebek," who, Jennings added, "is always acting like he knows all the answers." 
Jennings also participated in a mock game show versus sopho­more Erik Powers and senior Mike Draz, which Jennings won handily. 
Notre Dame is the third of four universities that Jennings is visiting this week, he said after the events. The crowd here was "very big and enthusiastic" and more "into it," he said, than any other place he's been to thus far. 
Jennings said that when the Speaker's Bureau contacted him to make this tour of college campuses, he seized the oppor­tunity. 
"There are not a lot of people who get famous for this short amount of time and for this kind of school type of knowledge," Jennings said. "I figured, why not take advantage of it?" 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffyl@nd.edu 

Faculty 
continued from page 1 

ily." Delgadillo is working on a 
· book entitled "Spiritual Mestizaje: Religion, Race, Gender and (Trans)Nation in Contemporary Chicana Narrative." According to Delgadillo, this work "examines transnational feminism and memory in the spiritual mestizaje of Chicana fiction, documentary film and digi­tal murals." Associate professor of quantitative psychology Yuan was awarded a 
$32,000 fellowship by the James McKeen Cattell Fund, which will be used to accomplish Yuan's goal to "develop better methodology for dealing with missing data and messy data" in psychology. 
Yuan's focus on psychome­tric theory and multivariate statistics ultimately aims to "make the measuring and analyzing of psychological phenomenon more precise so that human characteris­tics are better understood" and "make the psychology more like a science, not just fortune tellers." 
Contact Lisa Schultz at lschultz@nd.edu 





We've Ploved 
-to Serve you Better! 
Your Saint Mary's Banking Center has moved and is now open t()r business in the new Student Center, oflering you the convenience ofa full-service bank right on campus. Our location may have changed but our stafl'is the same ­fi·iendly, knowledgeable, and ready to provide you with the personal service you've come to expect fi·om 1st Source. 
Stop by our new location for the Grand Opening Celebration on April 21st and be sure to enter our prize drawing. We look f(Jrward to seeing you there. 
Winner> sele<le<.1 by ri.tndom di<;wing on 04!21/05 No purchase ~e<:.E.<.diY ttl enter. Nee!.! not be present to win Must De 18 years of age or aider to enter. Emp:oyees of 1st Scun:e Corporation. ftS :,ubsidiar:es and tl1<>1r lffil11ild1ate families am nm eligible. 

hours M-F • 10-5 



ORLD & NATION 
Tuesday, April 19, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Sharon favors delay in pullout 
JJ<:ItUSAI.I·:M -Prime Minister Arinl Sharon said Monday lw favors a thme-wenk delay in Israel's planrwd pullout from thn Gaza Strip and f(nrr West Bank snttlnmlmL'i this summer, osten­sibly lwcause ol' a .Jnwish mourning period nuu·king thn destnrdion ol' thn biblical templns. 
A postporwmnnt could givn tlw ill-pmparnd governnwnt morn room to plan for the with­drawal, hut would also givn .Jewish nxtrmnists morn tinw to organize rnsistanee. 
''I'm positiwly indirwd toward this: We simply have to make it as easy as possible," Sharon told reporters during a train ride Monday. lsranl TV-without citing any sourens -said Sharon had d.-rid.-d to delay tlw pullout; Sharon madn no armowH:I~nwnt on Monday. 
lsnwl, nwanwhiln, announced plans to build ;;o mon• honws in a Wt~st Bank sel.tlmn.-nt -a Wf'Pk allPr Prt>sident Bush said such mnstrue­tion should stop. 
Iran suspends Al..Jazeera broadcasts 
TI•:III!AN. Iran-Iran suspnndnd the nation­wide OJWrations ol' Arab TV broadeaster A.J­.IltZPPra on Monday, ;u:rusing it ol' inflaming viol.-nt protests by t.lw Arab minority in its southw.-st, statn-nrn TV rnportml. 
Also. tlw gowrnnwnt said two morn protest­ers diPd in the unn~st in Khuzistan provinee along tlw bordnr with Iraq, raising the thrnn­day toll to thrnn dnad and at lnast eight injurPrl. Iran's intPlligmH:e rhiel' told the coun­try's ollirial rwws agency that said 200 opposi­tion-linked loaders ol' thn demonstrations had he.-n arn~stnd. 
HNA quoted Ali Yunnsi as saying government opporwnts had provoked the unrest, whieh lwgan in thn city ol' Ahvaz and on Sunday spn•ad southward to Mahshahr. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Study doubts safety of pain killers 
ANAIIEIM, Calif. -Smokers who regularly took certain pain killers cut their risk of devel­oping oral eanenr but increased their ehanees ol' dying from hnart-relatnd problems, accord­ing to a study that raises fresh questions about the long-torm usn of sueh drugs. 
Tho findings add to the suspicion that the heart risk extnnds beyond medieations like Bextra, Vioxx and Cnlebrex to the larger fami­ly of pain relievers known as non-steroidal anti-inllammatory drugs, or NSAIDs. These includn Advil, Motrin, Alevn and virtually all otlwr ovnr-tlw-countnr pain pills except aenta­minoplwn or Tylnnol. 
Short-tnrm usn of thesn medications -two wnnks or Jess -lhr hnadadws or othnr pain is still considernd safn. 
DeLay says he violated no laws 
WASIIINGTON-In a fresh eountnrattack, llousn Majority Loader Tom Del.ay told sup­portnrs in a mailing madn public Monday that lw has "nnvnr bonn found to havn violatnd any law or ruin by anyone" despit1~ numerous alle­gations. 
Ml>nmor.rats havn madn dear that their only agnnda is thn polities of personal destruction, and tlw erirninalization of politks," the Texan's campaign addml in a ddiant rnbuttal. 
"Tiwy hatn Honald ltt~agan consnrvativos like l>nl.ay and tlwy hate that hn is an nfTnetivn lnadPr who suecnnds in passing thn Hnpublican agnnda." 
LOCAL NEWS 

Father wants reason for son's death 
INDIANAPOLIS -The father ol' a soldinr from northwnstnrn Indiana wants the Army to tt~ll him morn about how his son diml in Iraq. 
Army l'l'c. Stnvnn Sirko, 20, ol' Portage diod ol' non-combat rolat.nd injurios SurHlay in Muqdadiyah, about 60 miles north of Baghdad, thn military said Monday in a pross rnlnaso. lin was assigned to the First Battalion, 30th Infantry Hngimnnt, Third Brigadn, Third Infantry Division, based at Fort Bnrming, Ga. 
No mon~ dt~tails worn providml in the prnss mlnasn. 
CoMPILED FROM TlH OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
ITALY 


No new pope after first day in conclave 
Black smoke from Sistine Chapel signals that cardinals have more deliberating to do 
Associated Press 

VATICAN CITY -Blaek smoke streamed from the Sistine Chapnl's chimney Monday to signal that cardi­nals failed to selnet a nnw pope in thnir Jirst round ol' voting, held just hours aJ'tnr thny began their historic task: linding a leader capa­ble oJ' building on .John Paul ll's spiritual nnnrgy while keeping modorn rifts from tearing doepnr into thn church. 
"It seems whit!~ ... no, no, it's black!" rnportnd Vatican Badio as tho first palo wisps slipped out from tho narrow pipr~ and then quickly dark­ened. 
As millions around the world watdwd on television, at least 40,000 people wait­ed in St. Potnr's Squarn with all eyes on the chimney, where smoke from the burned ballots would give tho J'irst word of the eon­dave: whitn meaning a nnw pontiff. black showing that thn soernt gathoring will continue Tuesday. 
In the last moments ol' twi­light, the pilgrims began to point and gasp. "What is it'? White? Blaek?" hundreds cried out. In a few seeonds -at about R:05 p.m. -it was dear the 115 cardinals from six continents eould not lind the two-thirds majority many faithful. the basiliea's eentral window must take a striet line about needed to elect the new "Knnp praying for the new as the 265th pontiff. moral dril't and "a didator­leader for the world's 1.1 bil­pope," said 82-year-old "We thought it was white, ship of relativism" that lighl<> lion Roman Catholics. Only Cardinal Luis Aponte then it went black. I had a tho idea of absolute truths. one vote was held Monday. Martinez of Puerto Rieo, who feeling of exhilaration fol­"!laving a clear faith, 
Few expected a quick was too old to join the eon­lowed by disappointment," based on the erood of tho dndsion. The cardinals have dave, open to cardinals only said Harold Hnevos, a 35-church, is often labeled a staggering rangn of issues under agn 80. year-old theology student today as a fundamentalism," to juggle. In the West, they It was the first time in from Washington. said Hatzinger, 7R, who has must deal with tho fallout more than a generation that Added 20-ynar-old Italian bonn the Vatiean's chinf from priest sex-abuse sean­crowds stared at the ehim­student Silvia Mariano: "You overseer ol' doetrirw since dais and a chronie shortage ney for the famous smoke can't describe the feeling. 1981. "Whereas relativism, of priests and nuns. and word ol' a new pope. In When the smoke came out it whieh is letting oneself' b1~ Elsewhere, the Church is that tim~. the Church has looked white and I got tossed and 'swept along hy facing calls for sharper been pulled in two direc­chills." every wind of teaching,' aetivism against poverty and tions: a spiritual renaissance Even before thn conclave looks like the only attitude an easing ol' its ban on con­under John Paul but bat­began, one of the possible aeenptable to today's stan­doms to help eombat AIDS. tered by scandals and a flock candidates -German dards." 
The nnxt pontill' also must pressing for less ri!,rid toaeh­Cardinal Joseph Hatzinger Only aftor listing a series maintain the global ministry ings. -tried to set a torw of ol' p!lrcnived threats to tho of John Paul, who took 104 But in ehilly St. Peter's urgency. ehurd1 -from Marxism to international trips in his 26-Squarn, thoughts wero only llis homily in a spoeial "radical individualism" ­year papacy and is already on who will next appear memorial Mass lilr tho pope did he note tho duty ahead b11ing hailod as a saint by under the <Timson drapes at warned that the Church lew tho cardinals. 

IRAQ 

Security forces find weapons, no hostages 
Associated Press 

MADAIN -llundrnds of Iraqi sm~u­rity forces launelwd an operation Monday to root out Sunni insurgents at the tip of Jraq's "Triangle of Dnath," finding weapons and ear bombs but no hostages despito reports that up to 100 Shiites may have been seized. 
In Baghdad, gunmen ambushed a senior Del'nnse Ministry advisor as he drove home late Monday, killing him and his son, the Interior Ministry said. Offieials identified the man as Maj. (;en. Adnan al-Qaraghulli. 
Iraqi forces fanned through the dusty streets of Madain and took posi­tions on rooftops in tho town south of Baghdad, while Sunni leaders dis­missed the reports of a hostage ('.risis as a hoax. 
Thn U.S. military, whose forces only stood by in case they were nnndnd, called the operation in Madain a sig­nificant step forward in the training ol' Iraqi forces, which is key to Amnriea's exit stratogy in the 2-year-old war. Also Monday, Iraq's most powerful Shiite bloe said it wants ousted leader Saddam Hussein put to death if he is eonvietnd of war crimes. II' the interim president won't sign the execution ordnr, he should resign, an alliance spokesman told The Associated Pross. 
"This is something that cannot be 
discussed at all," said Ali al-I>abagh, a lawmaker from tho. Shiite dnrgy-led Unitnd Iraqi Allianee. "We feel hn is a criminal. lin is the No. l criminal in the world. Ito is a murdnror." 
Interim President .Jalal Talahani was quoted by the British Broadcasting Corp. on Monday as saying he liknly would abstain from signing any oxneution order bncausn of his opposition to thn death pnnalty. 
"I personally signod a call for nnd­ing execution throughout tho world, and I'm respecting my signature," Talabani tuld tho BBC. lin wncnded, howevnr, that ho was probably alone in the government in holding this view. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April -19, 2005 
COR 
continued from page 1 
exchange between students. 
Seniors Chris Kelly and Aaron Wenger, founders of NDBay, were invited to the meeting to speak to members about the possible pur­chase of the book-buying Web site by student government. 
The two founders. who will be in dill'crent cities after graduation and have been considering selling the site, said they would likely ask b<~tween $5,000 and $8,000 for it. 
"Student government should look at this as an investment. This is something you can make money on," Kelly said. 
Currently, there are no fees to join NDBay. Profits are made by selling advertising space, which Kelly said could provide student government with more funds. 
"We don't take a cent from the students. All the revenue comes from advertising," Kelly said. 
NDBay, founded in December 2002, is a Web site that allows Notre Dame students to buy and sell used textbooks at lower prices than those charged by the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Last year, students saved a total of $13,000 after using the site, Kelly said. 
Should student government decide to purchase the site, Kelly and Wenger said one staff mem­ber could maintain the site by putting in 20 to 30 hours a semester. 
"When we created the site, we tried to make it as self-sufficient as possible," Wenger said. "Only a small amount of time is needed to maintain it. And that time is usually just for small administra­tive details." 
Council members posed ques­tions about copyright infringe­ment with EBay, but Kelly said his lawyers had reassured him that no laws had been violated with the use of the NDBay domain name. 
"Our lawyers tell us that for us to be infringing, people would have to be confusing our products -they're not," Kelly said. 
Kelly and Wenger also noted that Georgetown University's GBay, a Web site similar to NDBay which is operated by their student government, has never faced any opposition from EBay. 
Entrepreneurial Club president Ryan Eggenberger and club member Nate LaFerle then took the floor and presented represen­
. tatives with the second option, which would allow the club to create its own book exchange Web site that would be a direct competitor with NDBay, should Wenger and Kelly decide to con­tinue with it after graduation. 

This option would decrease the cost to student government, which has allocated $600 to be used for the cost of labor for cre­ating a Web site. 
Eggenberger said his club could create and maintain a Web site that would be superior to NDBay. 
"NDBay has one fundamental flaw, and that is that once two students agree on a transaction, it is up to them to figure out how to actually exchange the books," LaFerle said. "Our Web site would facilitate credit card trans­actions." 
Eggenberger and LaFerle said they would likely use Pay Pal, an online credit card transaction sys­tem, to facilitate the transactions between students. This would cut staffing costs and be more reli­able than a self-created credit card system. 
Furthermore, Eggenberger and LaPerle said their Web site would include prices from other online bookselling Web sites like Amazon.com, and also facilitate changes between the Hammes bookstore and student<> -though representatives doubted the feasi­bility of this. 
"We can make it so you never have to leave your desk. That is the fundamental difference between our site and NDBay," Eggenberger said. 
Student Union treasurer Mike Marshall noticed a paradox in the discussion. Should student gov­ernment decide to purchase NDBay, he said, the Entrepreneurial Club could still pursue its Web site plans and become direct competitors with the student government-funded Web site, using funds allocated to them by student government. 
"We'll pay X dollars for NDBay while also condoning a club to compete with us. But if I'm in the Entrepreneurial Club, I would not try to go up against the Student Union," Marshall said. 
The representatives then voted to close the meeting before dis­cussion continued any further. 
Council members also approved Stephen Friend and Taria Graves as assistant student union treasurers and Matt Adams as student business board man­ager. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

Please join us for another evening of Hindu centering prayer, 
Thursday, April 21, 2005 
330 Coleman-Morse 
7-7:45 p.m. 

Expen'ence another epening ifHindttprqyer and meditation as part ofa .rerie.r exploring the be!ieft and practices rfthe wor!d'.r greatfaith traditions: 
"An Evening of Prayer from. Around the World" 
.S'potJsored f:7y: Campus Ministry 
International Student Sn-vi•-es and~-4.ctir;ities Indian stttdent.A>·.rociation ND i\1.uslim Student Associatio11 Graduate Student Union 

Rocca's homily. The conclave process ­


Conclave 
"conclave" meaning "with a key" in Latin -began due to
continued from page 1 
the formerly, slow process of 
selecting a new pope, Rocca momentous event in recent said. At some periods in Church history. We all know Catholic history it took up to the impact that the pope, as three years to select a succes­the universal pastor of the sor. In order to remedy the Church, has on all of us both process, the tradition began of as Catholic Christians and as locking the deciding cardinals students, fac-into a con­ulty and staff clave at a premier "The proverbial shoes sometimes Catholic with only
that the next pope will 
University bread and
have to fill are enormous,
like Notre water on Dame," said and the great moral which to B r e t t survive
issues that he will face 
Perkins, the until a deci­
are daunting."
director of sion was the Catholic made. Peer Ministry Brett Perkins Today, of 
& Protestant Catholic Peer Mininstry & course, the cardinals
S t u d e n t Protestant Student Resources
Resources at receive
director
Notre Dame_. more than 
Perkins said the next pope would face many chal­lenges -an important reason for prayer. 
"The proverbial shoes that the next pope will have to fill are enormous, and the great moral issues that he will face are daunting," Perkins said. "For this reason, we gather to pray for the outpouring of the Holy Spirit upon the cardinals at the conclave, for their guid­ance in selecting a pope that will have the faith, courage and endurance to continue the work of John Paul II in leading the Church on into the 21st century." 
Those who attended the Mass not only prayed for the guidance of the cardinals selecting the new pope but also reflected on the life of the late Pope John Paul II and the contributions he made to the Church. Attendees were treat­ed to history about the con­clave's purpose and the pope selection process during 
bread and 

water, but amenities are still limited, Rocca said. Any form of out­side communication is strictly prohibited, including tele­phones, radios, televisions, the Internet, letters and newspa­pers. 
Smoke is sent up at least daily from the conclave, sig­naling whether a pope has been selected or not. Black smoke means that delibera­tion will continue, while white smoke means the pope has been chosen. Monday's black smoke signifies that the 115 cardinals are still in the process of obtaining a two­thirds majority vote for the next pope. 
"One eannot predict when the next pope will be elected," Perkins said. "It's all up to the cardinals, under the inspira­tion ·of the Holy Spirit. Many scholars, however, anticipate an election within the first few days of this conclave." 
Whether the pope is chosen in the next few days or three years like it did in the 13th century, this papal succession is a new experience for those in the Notre Dame community who have only known one pope during their lives. 

"I think the majority of. stu­dents do realize how impor­tant this time is," Perkins said. "No one in the history of the Church has ever made greater efforts [than Pope John Paul Ill to be more present to the Christian people and more dedicated to tending his flock, no matter where in the world they lived. The new pope will have his work cut out for him, and it is essential that we obtain a shepherd who will provide the unifying leadership that is needed to guide a billion-membnr organ­izatiO'n like the Catholic Church." 
In the coming days, Notre Dame will remain in spirit and prayer with the cardinals in Rome, as well as with the larger world community. 
"The 'Mass of the Holy Spirit' reflects Notre Dame's participation in the larger Catholic Christian community around the world," Perkins said. "We take time out of our hectic day to pray for those cardinals who will be electing our next universal pastor and shepherd." 
He said the significance of the Mass stretched far beyond the Basilica. 
"It is important to all of us because we are members of a faith community that reaches far beyond the boundaries of this campus, the city of South Bend, the state of Indiana, and the United States of America," Perkins said. "We are a part of a universal faith, and the deci­sions made in Rome this week will affect all of us in one way or another." 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 
Do you dream of grilling at a2005 Football Concession Stand? Even if you don't, if your Club, Organziation, or Hall applied for a2005 Stand... Attend the Spring 2005 Concession Stand Trainings! 

Monday, April 18th Tuesday, April 19th *All Trainings take place at Noon or 4pm 
Concession Stand T:raining Information: 
All Training Sessions located in 
LaFortune Montgomery Theater 
*Attend if your Club, Organization, Hall applied for a2005 Football Concession Stand 
*At least 2people per Stand MUST BE TRAINED 
*Training from Fall 2004 Will NOT Carry over to 2005! 
To Get Your Grill On... Attend Training today!!! 
'li.tesday, April 19, 2005 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,071.25 -16.26

}ones  ,  
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume 1,932 158 ~ 2,185,260,590  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&PSOO  1,421.15 1,912.92 6,969.09 I, 145.98  -4.23 +4.77 +10.74 +3.36  

NIKKEI(Tokyo) I I , 0 3 5 .46 +97.02 FTSE IOO(London) 4, 8 2 7. I 0 -64.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ)  +0.03  +0.01  34.75  
APPLE COMPUTER (AAPL)  +0.76  +0.27  35.62  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +0.41  +0.09  22.21  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.78  +0.19  24.65  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -1.05  -0.18  17.02  


30-YEAR BOND -0.86 -0.40 45.87 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.52 -0.22 42.49 5-YEAR NOTE -0.49 -0.19 38.96 3-MONTH BILL +3.23 +0.88 28.12 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0. 12 50.37 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.50 426.50 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.75 86.23 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 07.4300 EURO 0.7676 POUND 0.5255 
CANADIAN$ 1.2464 
IN BRIEF LexisNexis begins notifying victims 
DAYTON, Ohio -LexisNexis said on Monday that it has begun notifying about 2XO.OOO people whose personal information may have bonn aecessod by unauthorized indi­viduals using stolen passwords and IDs. 
l.ast wtwk, LnxisNexis disdosed that crimi­nals may havn hrnadwd computer files con­taining tho JWrsonal information ol' 310,000 people, a tPnl'old itH-.rnase over a previvus esti­mate of how much data was stolnn. 
Tlw Dayton-based company, a subsidiary ol' I .ondon-basnd publisher Heed Elsevier Group f'I.C, had previously idt~ntifind 32,000 poten­tial victims and has notified them alroady. 
Tho first hatch of breaches was uneoverod during a nwinw and inl.egration of the systems ol' Snisint Inc. shortly after l.exisNexis bought tlw Boca Haton, Fla.-hasnd unit fi1r $775 mil­lion in August. 
Snisint's databases store millions of personal roeords induding individuals' addresses and Sodal Security numhnrs. Customers indudo poli<:n and lngal professionals and public and privatn sector organizations. 
Jury: invesbnent company not at fault 
TAI.LAIIASSEE, Fla. -An investment com­pany did nothing wrong whon it put state employee pension l'und money in falling Enron stock and lost more than $2XO million, a jury said Monday. 
Alliance Capital Management was one of' several companies hired to make invostment dedsions for Florida's $100 billion retirement fund. 
Tlw state Board of' Administration, whieh oversees the pension fund, alleged that Allianetl brnachnd its eontraet by putting motwy into Enron even as the company spi­raled toward bankruptcy in 2001. The board was seeking more than $1 billion in damages. 
Alliance said the bad investment was a rnsult of' something it eould not have known about -aeeounting fraud that hid problems at the energy giant. Enron's former finance ehief' has since pleaded guilty to running schemes to prop up the company's appear­ance. 
Tho more than $280 million in lossos amounted to less than one-third of 1 percent of' the pimsion fund's total assets. 
r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS 

page 7 
~~­

Merck will discount drugs for uninsured 
Card is the latest move from companies seeking to assuage criticism over prices 
Associated Press 
NEW YOBK -Morek & 
Co. said Tuesday it will launch a card that will dis­count its drugs for unin­. surnd Amnrieans regard­less of' their age or income. 
The card will become 
available April 25 and is 
aimed at providing unin­
surnd Americans with dis­
counts of' 15 pnrennt to 40 
percent for many Morek 
medicines. An ad campaign 
ineluding print and radio 
spots to promote tho card 
is slated to begin in May. 
Morek's card is the latest 
move from drug makers ­
which have faced critieism 
that their products are too 
nxpnnsive -to provide 
some aid to those strug­
gling to buy medieinns. The 
U.S. Census Buroau esti­mates there are 45 million Amerieans without health insurance. 
Merck, which is based in 
Whitehouse Station, N.J., 
decided to offer the card 
because many drug dis­
count programs have age 
and income requirements 
that excludn the uninsured, 
many of whom have jobs 
that lack health care cover­
age, said Margaret 
McGlynn, Merck's president 
of U.S. Human Health. 
"There are gaps. Some 
people just aren't eligible 
!for discounts!,'' said 
McGlynn. drug e'overage wouldn't Singulair and osteoporosis scription drug coverage 
A rival discount card for really need the card. treatment Fosamax. AIDS and health insurance than 
the uninsured from 10 To get the card, individu­drug Crixivan is exduded, their job or home, accord­
drug companies announced als have to provide basie as are cholesterol medi­ing to a nationwide poll or 
earlier this year has age information such as name, cines Zetia and Vytorin. 1,001 adults conducted by 
and income requirements. address and number of Those drugs are marketed Zogby International and 
Called the Together Hx dependents. People can through a joint venture commissioned by Morek. 
Access Card, it provides receive a card by logging with Sehering-Piough Corp. The survey found that 4<J 
savings of 25 percent to 40 on to www.merckunin­The venture has its own percent of Americans fear 
percent on more than 275 sured.com, calling 1-800-patient assistant program. losing llwir drug or lwalth 
brand-name and generic 50MEHCK or filling out MeGlynn doelined to say insurancn. Meanwhile, 37 
drugs. forms that will be available how mueh it may cost pnrcent said they arn wor­
McGlynn said Merck aims at doctors' offices and Morek to provide th1'-J dis­ried about losing their to make the card as easy to pharmacies. counts, and that the budget homo while :w percent get as possible. Thnre are Many of Merck's best sell­for the ad eampaign was worried about job loss. no fees and no one needs to ers are ineluded ineluding still being finalized. Two in live of those sur­prove they are uninsured. eholesterol-lowering agent Americans are more wor­veyed said they "strongly" MeGlynn said people with Zocor, asthma drug ried about losing their prn-agreed. 

Target will restrict over-the-counter medicines 
nation's second largest diseount pushing strict restrictions on the sale
Associated Press 
retailer after Wai-Mart. of meth ingredients. "There is a cnr­
ST. PAUL, Minn. -Target Corp. will In Minneapolis, Target shopper tain amount of eommunity responsi­no longer allow unf'ettewd aceess to LaVonne Best said she understands bility these retailers should assume." eold medicines that are used to make the move beeause her neighborhood Target alrnady had limited purchas­methamphetamine. has had its share of drug-related es of pseudoephedrine-containing 
Target stores nationwide will pull crimes. drugs to two packages at a time, many cold, allergy and cough reme­"It's just too sad that the world's Brookter said. dies from their regular shelves and eome to this, that they have to hide Similar policies are in piace at rivals sell them only from pharmacy coun­the eold pills," Best said. W<ti-Mart, Walgreen Co., Hite-Aid ters, the Minneapolis-based company Brookter said the shift, which will Corp. and Krnart Corp. announced Monday. . take effect in two to three months, Hepresentatives of tl10s1~ companies 
Target is believed to be the first was in response to a growing number said they had no immediate plans to national retailer to take the step. of state and local restrictions on the take the eold medications oJT ston~ 
The restrietions apply to all over­sale of the medications. shelves, exeept in states were it is the-counter drugs containing pseu­Target's move won praise from required. doephedrine, including children's Minnesota lawmakers pushing for A number of states am following the medicines, tablets, liquids and gel­tougher measures to fight meth, example of Oklahoma, where restrie­caps, spokeswoman Carolyn Brookter whieh ean be made using a variety of tions on sales of some cold medicines said. Pseudoephedrine is a key ingre­household chemicals and pseu­were followed by a dramatie drop in dient for meth, which can be made in doephedrine. the number of meth lab seizurns. makeshift labs. "For them to take this lead I would Six states require that only pharma­
The products won't be sold at all by assume that Wal-Marts and all the cies sell drugs with pseudoephedrine, about 300 Target stores that don't rest of them will have to follow them and seven others make retailers lock have pharmacies. Target operates very shortly," said state Sen. Julie up the products or sell them from 1,330 stores in 4 7 states and is the Rosen, a Republican who has been staffed counters. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Tuesday, April 19, 2005 
Fatnily of tnlSStng DApleads for details 
Associated Press 
BELLEFONTE, Pa. -Her voice cracking at times, the daughter of a missing district attorney made an impassioned plea for her father to call home Monday and asked for fresh clues from the public to lind the man. 
Centre County District Attorney Hay F. Gricar, 59, has been missing since Friday. At a news conference Monday, authotities said they had called the FBI for help and that no leads have emerged since the prosecutor's car was found over the weekend in Lewisburg, about 45 miles east of his home in Bellefonte. 
Then, Lara Griear stepped to the podium and said in a state­ment directed at her father, "My heart aches deeply; very deeply, for your presence." 
"I want more than anything to hear your voice and for you to hug me. Maybe we can go for a hike -go hike up a mountain and sit and talk," said Lara Gricar. "Please call. To every­one else out there, if you have seen my father, please contact police." 
Patty Fornicola, Ray Gricar's longtime girlfriend and a clerk at the DA's office, also spoke. 

"Ray, I love you very much, and I miss you. I want you to come home. Please call us. We . will wait for as long as we need," Fornicola said. 
Neither woman took ques­tions. 
Bellefonte Police Chief Duane Dixon said he had contacted the FBI on Monday to help ana­lyze Ray Gricar's credit card and phone records. Authorities were also studying Ray Gricar's calendar and tiles on his com­puter. 
Authorities have said there were no signs of foul play and that they did not think the dis­appearance was related to any of his cases. 
"I don't have a logical theory at this point," Dixon said. 
Police also said they were aware that that Gricar's broth­er, Roy J. Gricar, had vanished under similar circumstances in Ohio in May 1996. 
The 53-year-old Ohio resident told his wife he was going out to buy some mulch and never returned, according to an account at the time in the Dayton Daily News. Ilis car was found two days later aban­doned at a park near a river and a bridge. 
Weeks later, investigators pulled his body from the water. His death was ruled a suicide by drowning, the county coro­ner's office in Dayton said Monday. 

VIETNAM 
Postwar generation changes Vietnam 
Associated Press 
HO CHI MINH CITY-"She Loves You ...," the Beatles imita­tors sing. "Yeah! Yeah! Yeah!" the swaying, gyrating crowd roars back. 
The concert by "The Beatels," a band of Fab Four lookalikes from Australia, is reminiscent of Shea Stadium circa 1965, but the year is 2005 and the venue is the former Saigon, wartime capital ofU.S.-backed South Vietnam. 
In a country where 56 percent of the populace was born after the Vietnam War ended in a communist victory 30 years ago Saturday, this is the face of the future: dancing teenagers singing rock 'n' roll in English instead of the revolutionary music that fueled their parents' fight for independence. 
Today's generation chats on cell phones, wears designer jeans, surfs the Web, rides the hottest new motorcycles, and firmly believes that with hard work and education -prefer­ably at an American college ­young Vietnamese can make their nation great. 
Vu Hai Minh's grandfathers fought on separate sides of the war. Now the 17 -year-old plans to study economics in Singapore. "Vietnamese young people are very talented. They want to show they can rebuild the country," he says. "If Vietnam can defeat the biggest power in the world, it shows that it has huge potential." 
And just as the beat and flavor of music have changed over the years, so have the country's goals and ideals. 
After more than two decades of war to oust the French and then the Americans, Vietnaq1 was reunited as an independent com-munist country in 1975, but still suffered isolation and extreme poverty before it began opening its economy to the world in the mid-1980s. 

Now it has a peacetime gener­ation that has gone from rice fields to universities, determined to push Vietnam onto the inter­national stage. 
"Everyone wants to contribute to the country and ·to see the country change, be prosperous and healthy and have more free­doms," says Bao Chau, 16. The 1Oth grader, who speaks perfect English and likes Jennifer Lopez and Britney Spears, plans to fol­low her older sister to college in California to become a doctor. 
Chau's dreams are typical of many young Vietnamese who yearn to be educated in the United States or Europe. But few 

'·· w~·.y~~~:~~:· .. . 
L TRY-OUTS 
QUESTIO 
E-MAIL kdelay@nd.edu 
are that lucky: The annual national income averages only about $550 a year, and only 3,000 new Vietnamese students enrolled in American colleges last year. 
Others study closer to home in Singapore or Australia, and more and more are enrolling at col­leges within Vietnam -a privi­lege once reserved for the rich and well-connected. 
While eagerly embracing capi­talism and nurturing a middle class, Vietnam remains a one­party system where political dis­sent is sharply curtailed. The party, run largely by old-guard conservatives, shows no sign of abandoning its monopoly on power and has been urging new members to join. 
But the mere fact that the com­munist leadership is allowing youngsters to be exposed to Western ideas of democracy and free speech shows that the regime is loosening up. 
"You cannot say whatever you want to say and do whatever you want to do in Vietnam because there are laws and regulations 

. that govern this kind of thing. But once the young generation takes power ... I think they will have a good way to govern the country," said Hoai Thanh, 24, who runs an underground rock magazine in Hanoi. Thanh returned to Vietnam from Sweden with a master's degree in journalism and is eager to see faster change. ''I'm not talking about whether Vietnam would follow the path of capital­ism or communism ... but I think in the next 20 years, Vietnam will be an open and modern country." 

Siz~le'ne (Sizzlelini@') ­
On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! 
A sizzling skillet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B~-lefie (Bellini) ­
A frosty, peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays) ­Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelint Bellini Tuesdays! 

ALlAN KITCHEN 

--~------------------~----------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
'llu.:sday, April 19, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 



Ship hit by w-ave returns to NY 
AsMil'i<ltcd Press 
NI·:W YOBK -Wlwn a "Boom!" on a cruisn ship awokn him. tlw lirst thing that t'rossPd passPnger Bobnrt Clark's mind was "tlw Titanie." 
In a panir. tw and his wil'n and 7 -yPar-old daughtPr ran to a rPrPpl ion an~a and found passPngPrs from lloodPd cab­ins. huiH'lH·d togntlwr and wnaring JifP prPSnfvt1rS-SOIIHl of thPm rrying hystt'ricatly. ThPy soon diswvnrnd that tlw lhundProus disruption was a frPak 70-foot wavl' that smashl'd windows, snnt furni­turP flying and rippnd out whirlpools on tlw NorwPgian Dawn. 
"Wp wnrn going back and liJrth, up and down. And thnn, 'Boom!"' Clark said. 
Clark and his family dis­cussnd lhtdr ordnal Monday af'tnr tlw Norwegian Dawn, ear­rying about 2,000 passtmgers. rnturrHHI to Nnw York llarbor and doeknd at its bnrth on thn Hudson Biwr. /\bout 300 otlwr passnngnrs -many from thn aiTnrtnd rabins -dnridnd to 
IPaVP  thP  ship  narly  in  
Charlnston, S.C., an d driv1~  or  
lly honw.  

ThP 1H1!i-foot whitn ocean linPr Jpft Nnw York on April I 0 and was sailing bark to Nnw York from tlw Bahamas wlwn it was pourHind with !wavy snas ovPr llw wnnkPnd. Tlw NorwPgian Dawn docked at CharlPston for repairs and a Coast (;uard inspPt'tion bdore C'ontinuing its voyagn to New York. 

Norwngian Cruise Linn said 62 cabins wern l'toodnd and four passengers had cuts and bruisns. The wave reached snven stories, as high as deck 10 on tho ship, company spoknswoman Susan Hobison said. 
Tho cruisn linn said passen­ger sal'nty "was in no way com­promised by this incident." 
Still, Clark said he was anx­ious to !nave the ship and return to his home in Nnw York City. 
"Why would you go through a storm? Can't thny see it com­ing? I'm trying not to be angry," said Clark. a radio production manager. 
Bill and Ellen Tesauro of' Wayne, N.J., went to thn ship's 1~asino whnn thn storm bngan to take thnir minds ofT the weath­er. "That's when the captain announced that drinks are l'ree all night," Bill Tnsauro told the Daily News. "But then there was another horrendous slap on the water." 
The couple returned to their suite, where a glass table top­pled and a desk went flying across thn room. Others woke up to lind shoes and magazines floating in a foot of water. 
"I thought I heard water sloshing around, and then I woke up and saw it, and it was surrnal," Stacy Maryland of' Hamilton, N.J., told the news­paper. 
Passengers got a refund of half the trip's cost and a vouch­er· for half the price of a futuro cruisn, Hobison said. 
'Good Morning Alnerica' putting heat on 'Today' 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -For 487 wonks, viewers have made NBC's "Today" show team of Katie Courk and Matt Lauer their favoritns in thn morning. The steady rise of' ABC's "Good Morning America" is thrnatening that dominanen. 
So far this snason, the "Today" ratings lead has av1~raged 662,000 viewers, down from almost 1.3 million last year at the same time, according to. Nielsen Media Heseareh. Five years ago, "Today" re!,'lllarly won by nnarly 2 million. 
There have even benn a few days -the Monday aftnr Pope John Paul II died and last Tuesday's Mariah Carny eoneert -whnn the ABC team of Charles Gibson and Diane Sawyer eame in first. 
"The program has momentum and momentum that has been building fiJr six years," said Bon Sherwood, executive producer of "GM/\" since taking over from Shelley Hoss last year. 
Over nine years the gap has been big and small, but "Today" has never lost its status as the top morning show, said its spokes­woman, Launm Kapp. 
"Sinee when is anothnr loss eon­sidered a suecess'!" she said. "Thn strength of 'Today' speaks for itself." 
'Today" has averagnd just over 6 million viewers this season, "Good Morning America" !i.3(J million, Nielsen said. 
It would be a huge psychic blow to NBC if"Today" worn ndipsnd. It is NBC's most profitable show. and the primary arrhitnc.t of its win­ning streak -former ox1~cutivo producer .lefT Zucker -has ascondnd to NBC UnivPrsal Teltwision (;roup prosident.. 

i\ndrnw Tyndall, a consultanl who monitors the contPnt of' rwt­work nows programs, said "(;M;\" has picked up iLo; pam and sharp­Ptwd ilo; f(li'US. 
/\II of tho morning rwws shows arn rwwsy and mow quickly dur­ing thoir lirst half-hour, a Zucknr innovation. Shorwood said lw's trying to bring that philosophy to the rnst of the show, even lhr ftm­tun~-oriented segnwnlo;. 
"We're trying to make a pro­gram that conneelo; with the hur­ried pace of most i\nwriean mornings," Sherwood said. "Evory ehoke is aimod at how our typical viewer is living -making break­fast, making lunches for school and ~rying to get out the door. You want to be connectml with what's going on in the world and what people are talking about that day." 
ABC seems to lw doing fnwnr colebrity interviews and morn tapod r11ports, Tyndall said. Sherwood said he just triPs for something that poopln c.an con­noel to: a sngnwnt with llillary Dul'l' foeusod on giving a fan a chanen to meet lwr instead of a straight interview. 
News anchor Hobin Hobnrb IHL<.; provon popular and will soon lw given an even biggt~r rolo in tlw show, Sherwood said. 

---~--­

--~-------------------------------------------~--------­
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT

page 10 Tuesday, April 19, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF • Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR 8USINFSS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK • 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 

Reeling in the years 
It's that time of year again. South Bend weather becomes miraculously beautiful, your professor actually lets your class meet on DeBartolo Quad and the main building is encapsulated in prison-like scaffokling. Well, maybe leave out K t" 
that last one. a •e 
As you all know, how-Boyle ever, 'tis the season of For What It's teary Viewpoints, Worth ­expressing how much Notre Dame has meant to the columnist over the past four years or even -for those born and bred Domers --over an entire lifetime. As a graduating senior, please bear with me, because this column Ls no excep­tion. 
Before you came to Notre Dame, you heard about the Notre Dame mystique. Maybe you grew up watching Notre Dame football. Maybe you were strange like my family and instead grew up watching NCAA track and field. 
Regardless ofwhether you were born with blue and gold running through your veins or acquired it after consuming an Wlearthly number of Blazing Sea Nuggets from the dining hall, after four years here you begin to Wlderstand. 
Before you came you heard about Notre Dame's nationally renowned academics. You read about the storied history ofthe football team. People who have never attended Notre Dame told you how much they love your school. 
When you applied, you saw the adniis­sions packet with that shining picture of the dome. Underneath the image it said, "Nowhere else but Notre Dame." 
Arguably, you could have foWld schools with comparable academics. You could have attended schools with better football teams. But these schools would not have 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

been Notre Dame. 
In 'The Brothers Karamazov," Dostoevsky writes, "And whether you are absorbed in the most important pursuits, reaching out for the highest honors, or struck down by the eruelest griefs, always remember how good it felt when we were all here together, united by a good and decent feeling, which made us, for a time ... better people, probably, than we would oth­erwise have been." 
To me, this quote symbolizes what can be f(>Wld "nowhere else but Notre Dame." As the weeks wind down and graduation approaches, the absolutely amazing individ­uals who are your classmates surroWld you. 
Many schools graduate leaders in busi­ness, doctors, lawyers, scholars and partici­pants in service. Notre Dame is not an exception. But I believe the community of students f(mnd at our school is like none other in the COWltry. 
Ofcourse no school is perfect. There may have been one, two or even several aspects of Notre Dame you wished bad been differ­ent. M<my students would cite parietals, the introduction ofthe hard aleohol policy and lack ofstudent voice in administrative deci­sions. 
But ifyou think back on these four years, while you may not have agreed with every University decision, it has been worth it. · 
William Butler Yeats wrote, "Think where man's glory most begins and end<>, and say my glory was I had such friends." I believe in this quote lies the core of my Notre Dame experience. 
I came to Notre Dame thinking of the school in the most cliche of terms, as a "top twenty university." I leave dwelling not so much on the University's acadernic prowess, achievements in sports and international reputation as on the people I will miss every day after !leave this place. 
My dad, a Boston College graduate, asked me upon my acceptance to the University, "How do you know someone w<mt to Notre Dame?" 
"Why?" I asked, already anticipating a pW1ch line. 
"They'll tell you." he replied. (Here, four years later, I'm calling him out. He was thrilled I chose the Fighting Irish). 
We're all proud to have been a part of Notre Dame, and Domers are notorious for talking about their school. 
In my opinion, however, no one is trying to brag. They know the Notre Dame family extends the world over and, after leaving South Bend, are always looking for others who share their sense of connection. 
Notre Dame is everywhere. I found it on a high school summer service project in inner-eity Worcester, when an eleven-year­old member of my small group proudly showed me his Notre Dame hat and told me he was going to go to school here some day. 
I've foWld Notre Dame in my high school eollege counselor, Mr. Cattanach, who spoke with me about how much he loved the school. 
I've foWld Notre Dame in academic jour­nals, architectural wonders and technologi­cal innovations. 
But most of all I've fbund Notre Dame in my fellow members of the class of 2005. To my friends, thank you for the past four years. It wouldn't have been Notre Dame without you. 
Katie Boyle is a senior English, political science and Spanish major. She can be reached at kboyle2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the adminisrration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on contenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and departmenr editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Hrininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Obsc:rvt:r {USPS 5991-4000) i5 published Monday through Friday C!X<:ept dudng e:xam and vaottion perit~ds. A subscription to The Obsetv!!r is $t00 for one academic ye~~r; $~5 for one ~¢mes<er. 
11le Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 Sourh Dining Hall Send ltddress c:oni!:Crions co: 
Notre Dame. IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
1\:riodk,al postage paid at None Dame P.O. Box779 
a.nd additional mailing office!l. 024 South Dining Hall 
None Dame., IN 46556~0779 
The Observer is a member ofthe Al:sociatc:d Preu, All reproduction rights are 
tt!Sr!TVed. • 
TODAY'S STAFF 


News Sports Maddie Hanna Bobby Griffm 
OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Meghanne Eric Rhetter Downes Ken Fowler Julie Bender Scene What color should the 2005 
1SubllitaLetter 
"When I find myselffading, I close 
Viewpoint Maria Smith 
"The Shirt" be? 

my eyes and realize my friends are
Katherine Rowley mustrator 
my energy. 

·· to th~ Editor at
Graphics Katie Knorr 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at

Desiree Zamora 
anonymous
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

I~.n~~e~Se;er.e~m
1\ .•· . ' " 
..;~ ¥:;!;./.~%.3:!.3 .Oifi.A: !lM!m!W~,(,i...., ... W!..i..J:l.!t,~,~-:?~,:;:.$.-.j,, .....;:.W..).J..,w·· 
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Tuesday, April 19, 2005 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Great performance, bad manners 
I had the pleasure of attending the musical "Cinderella" at Saint Mary's College last Friday with frinnds and family. We all enjoyed a line performance by the cast. musicians and crew. 
llowevor, I must note that the audience was unusually rude to the orchestra. During the overturn, the audienc1~ completely drowned out the music with conversations and cell phom~s. The conductor graciously attempted to remedy this by introducing the orchestra to applausn bnfore thn second act. In responsn. the audience increased its volume. 
Music is central to a muskal! Please. keep silent during the overture and entr'acte. At the least. do so out of respnct for your friends in the orchestra and the audience. Even better, konp silent so that you may onjoy the rare treat that you have paid money to attend. 
Douglas Thain Assistant Professor, Computer Science & Engineering Aprill8 
U-WIRE 
'Sesame Street' should allow Cookie Monster to eat sweets 
I like to think of mysolf as a fairly tolerant. opnn-mindml p1~rson. I'm prntty sure I have my I'BS-fillnd childhood afternoons to thank fc1r that. 
After rnturning homo from school each day, I 
would anxiously wait until  
4:30, when, filr 30 predous  Jacl  
rninutns, I found mysnlf  Boydston  
immnrsod in a morn caring, acenpting world ­a world in which kind-hearted peo­ple of different backgrounds, rams and even spncies lived  Kansas State University Kansas State Collegian  
together in harmony.  

Tho utopian village of "Sesame Street" ­probably the one stretlt in New York City lacking a erazy, tnL'ihbag-wearing dope-fiend running around prophesizjng the Armageddon -taught kids that everyone, no matter how different or eccentric, was a valued addition to society. 
On "Sesame Street," the silly quirks that defined each character were appreciated and lauded, not criticized and swept under the rug. 
Ernin's unnatural love for his rubber ducky was celebrated with a song, the Count's mild obsessive-compulsive disorder bothered no one and Cookie Monster's penchant for gobbling up cookins while getting crumbs everywhere except in his mouth wa<; exactly what made him so loveable. 
'11mes, they are a-changing. The decision­makers at "~same Strnet" have decided to back away from the very diversity that makes the show so valuable for children. Citing concerns over skyrocketing cases of childhood obesity, they arn now snatehing away the one source of joy in Cookie Monster's lifi1-the eookie. 
{;one arn thn days of wanton cookin-benders. Instead of sin1,ring, "C is lbr eookie I That's good enough fi1r me," Conkin Monster will now explain to kids the diflimmce betwenn a "some­times filod" and an "anytimn fi1od." 
Tlw show's goal of combating childhood obesi­ty is enrtainly eommendable, and I suppose thew's nothing wrong with encoura1,ring kids to munch on some carrot sticks flVIJry now and then. 
But if Cookie Monster gets a makeover today, 
Want to be acolumnist, copy editor or illustrator for Viewpoint? 

E-mail Sarah at Viewpoint,l@nd.edu 
who knows what tomorrow will have in store? 
Where do we draw the line between encourag­
ing healthy lifestyles and trying to squeeze 
everyone into the same cookie-cutter mold? 
Instead of celebrating diversity and the quirks that make us individuals, we're teaching kids they need to be thin, beautiful and normal to fit into a world where shows about plastic surgery are on every channel and even the oldest female celebrity still get<; carded at liquor stores. 
Cookie Monster isn't the first victim of this movement toward perfection. It's been over a year since Barbie divorced Ken to pursue the swingin' singles life with an Australian boogie­boarder. Never mind she's pushing 60. 
Even the Care Bears have gotten into the act with a line of aerobics instructor bears, as ifwe needed more aerobics instructors in this world. 
Standing tall amidst this sea of conformity should be the one show that has always taught kids it's OK to be different, but sadly, "Sesame Street" is bending to societal pressures, as well. 
If it's not OK for Cookie Monster to eat cookies, who will be targeted next? Will city health codes force Oscar to pack up and leave his trash can in favor of more suitable housing? Will Bert and Ernie, after 30 years of happy cohabitation, be outed by the hostile conservatives of Sesame Street'? And how long will it be before the legis­lature passes a constitutional amendment pro­hibiting them from marrying? 
Oops, that's Kansas. not "Sesame Street." 

For the pa<;t 35 years, "Sesame Street" has shown kids a world filled with diversity and kindness. Everyone-big, small, furry, feath­ered, grouchy, gay or gluttonous-was appreci­ated and valued on that magical, utopian street. Taking away Cookie Monster's cookies is chip­ping away at the diversity that made the show so great. 
Please, let him eat cookies. 

This column originally appeared in the April 18 issue ofKansas State Collegian. the daily publication at Kansas State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 

Fond recollections of Hesburgh Library 

For generations. researchers have been dependent on books for their scholarship. They have used libraries in order to gain and transmit new knowledge. This depend-
Joachim
ence on 


Dyck
libraries applied espe­cially to uni­Guest versity Column research, and thus the library has always been at the intellectual center of the univer­sity. In the case of Notre Dame, "the intellectual citadel of American Catholicism," of course the cathedral with its divine service can certainly be called the spiritual center as well. Yet along side it is the cen­ter of secular knowledge, the library. 
As Max Kade distinguished vis­iting professor in the depart­ment of German and Russian at Notre Dame, I had the good for­tune of teaching 19 century German literature for a period of four months. Being with the students was intellectually and emotionally uplifting, as was the interaction with my faculty col­leagues. Yet in all honesty, the greatest joy was afforded me by the library. At first I was not at all acquainted with the library at Notre Dame. Yet no sooner did I ask than I was greeted with the quickest and most cordial assistance by the staff and librarians who provide service to students and faculty. While not all books I needed were avail­able there, the staff made every effort to meet the needs of the researcher. Whatever wasn't owned locally was acquired through Interlibrary Loan. In ono instance, an item that could not be photocopied due to awk­ward size was digitized in the Special Collections Department. Hobert Kusmer, the bibliograph­er for German literature, was instrumental in acquiring need­ed resources and acquainting me with the collections and services. Indeed, the most strik­ing experience in my many 
encounters with employees of the Library was that my requests were taken seriously: I was respected as a scholar. Nor will I ever forget how latn one evening I discovered to my dis­may that I did not have my library card with me, thus pre­venting me from being able to usc the machine to check out a much needed book. I mentioned this dilemma to the monitor on duty whom I had come to know. She proceeded to cheek out the book on the machine using her own card, thus taking on the responsibility for it. (I can assure you that within a few days I returned the book.) 
I have now returned to Germany and have resumed using the university library where I live. However, the spirit of pleasant cooperation and friendly support is lacking. Of course I am able to get the books I need expnditiously. Yet when I do not know something or am not familiar with some­thing, then assistance is given grudgingly. No one smiles at me when I return books I have bor­rowed. And while the American does not lack for a word of greeting, in Germany silence reigns. I am not disputing thn competence of thn Gorman library, but rather its humane atmosphere: it is eold. And my standards havo ehanged. Since my stay at Notre Dame, I know that research within a pleasant setting is m'ore fun. During my time in America I have 
researched and written produc­tively b1~cause I was happy going to tho library. For this I am thankful. 

Professor /Jyck taught at Notre Dame during the Fall Semester. 2004. 1/is article was translated from German by Hobert L. Kusmer. 1\ssociate Ubrarian in 1/esfmrgh Ubrary. Kusml'r can be contacted at rkusmer@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
------~-----~~~~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 
CENEpage 12 
Tuesday, Aprill9, 2005 VIDEO GAME REVIEWS 
'Dootn 3' makes use of great sound, realistic graphics 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Writer 

Science will be the downfall of mankind. At least, that is what video games tell us. From the evil Dr. Wily to the late Dr. Betrugger, scientists are usu­ally the villains behind most video game plots of world domination. 
"Doom 3" is no different. 

The player enters the game as a face­less Marine grunt assuming his new posi­tion on Mars. The first task that he must complete upon landing on Mars is to report to the Union Areospace Corporation base and the division of Marines stationed there. After doing so, and meeting random suspicious people while completing trivial tasks, the player is sent to recover a missing scientist in an older part of the base. 
Upon finding the scientist, the player soon discovers his post on Mars may be a little less boring than originally anticipat­ed. The corporation had been conducting experiments in teleportation and through their efforts had managed to open a hole into what could only be described as hell. Once the player finds the missing scien-
Photo courtesy of www.ixbt.com 

In "Doom 3," players face off against a variety of creative hell-spawned mon­sters. The game is one of the most realistic of its genre. 
tist, the teleporters go haywire, and hor-. rors begin to pour through. 
"Doom 3" is one wild ride. Creatures attack from the walls, ceilings, basically any angle that the player would not expect. Growls and hisses are heard ema­nating from the vents and from behind closed doors. The pacing of the game is nearly flawless, with bigger and more disturbing creatures attacking as the game pro­gresses. 
The mon­sters range from the paranor­mal to twisted creations of flesh and machine. 
The cherub-like creatures that attack the player are particularly creepy. Instead of feathered wings, they have insect wings. Since they have no legs, they crawl along the floor and leap at the -player when they get within range. The noise they make is one the player learns to dread. 
The sound in "Doom 3" is used to very good effect. Each creature makes a unique noise that is often the only warn­ing the player receives. Since portions of the game are played with little to no visi­bility, sound is often the player's greatest asset. 
The Union Aerospace facility is one of ment, but "Doom 3" excels. The game really feels as though it is what it pre­tends to be. The facility was a cheap, under-staffed and poorly-maintained place before the teleporters went hay­wire, and afterward even more of the lights malfunetion, as well as the random machinery throughout the complex. 
The illu­mination within the game is some of the best to be seen in any game, on any console. The shad­ows and illuminating factors are all cast in 

real-time. Shadows cover the creatures, and move over them as the creatures move. The shading moves and contorts as lights in the environment also move. Some of the best parts of the game are when the developers make use of dark­ness. When the player has to escort a man through a pitch-black segment of the base with his lamp as the only illumina­tion, movements within the shadows, or hostile noises can cause any player to jump. 
The only downfall "Doom 3" experi­ences is the lack of a splitscreen mode. All multiplayer segments are playable only over Live or a system link. Beyond those minor shortcomings, "Doom 3" is a must for any first-person shooter fan. 

the best-looking, most impressive video game environments to date. Many video Contact Mark Bemenderfer at games fail to depict a realistic environ-mbemende@nd.edu 


'God of War' worth renting, definitely not buying 
By MARK BEMENDERFER 
Scene Writer 

"Whom the gods would destroy, they first make mad." 
Those are the words that start "God of War" and are spoken as the player is introduced to Kratos. In a very well­rendered cinematic, Kratos leaps from a cliff in an apparent act of suicide. Then the game flashes back to a previ­ous time with a younger Kratos, and the gamer assumes control. 
Learning how events cascaded to where the game begins is part of the 
game's charm. Kratos's ability as a war­rior is apparent from the moment the player assumes control over him. 
The game begins on the Aegean Sea, with the hydra attacking a number of beached ships. Kratos is there at the bidding of the Greek gods, and it has become his job to slay the hydra. But first he is attacked by the zombies of the soldiers who had drowned and of other assorted men. To slay the hydra, he only has his blades and his bare hands. 
Upon fulfilling his task, he learns that the god Ares has begun an assault on Athens. Athena and the rest of the gods send him on a task to stop Ares. Thus begins the meat of "God of War," as Kratos begins his quest to stop Ares. His quest takes him through an Athen!l under siege, deserts, temples and other assorted locales. 


Fortunately, Kratos has some inter­esting weapons. He initially has the Blades of Chaos, two swords attached to a length of chain. He uses the chains to sling the two blades around in a spectacular display. The gods also give him special 
magical powers, w h i c h Kratos can comple­ment by attaining n e w weapons. All of the weapons and spells can be lev­eled up, similar to other games in the market. Leveling up the weapons gives the player access to new combos and abilities. 
The gameplay itself is very smooth. Controlling Kratos and his many func­tions couldn't be easier. The game is easy enough, and anyone of any ability can hop in and play it. However, there are enough hidden challenges and unlockables to please someone looking for a challenge. For garners seeking a true challenge, there is "Challenge of the Gods," a feature unlocked once the game is first beaten. 
Length, however, is one of the issues this game faces. It can be beat in one lengthy sitting or over a weekend. The game is also almost too easy on all but the hardest setting. Garners looking for a real challenge might be better off try­ing the new "Devil May Cry 3," a game similar in genre. 
"God of War" seems to rely heavily on jumping and timing puzzles t.9wards the end, a trait that detracts from the heavy action of the game. Sure, it gives the game variety, but how many times should someone be forced to avoid a 
spinning blade of doom? 
Scholars of ancient G r e e k mythology may find themselves offended by some of the events t h a t unfold. By 

having Kratos's initial act be to slay the Hydra, the developers ignore a lot of the mythology and thereby also the mythological characters. However, the creatures do appear to be modernized, more realistic mythical creatures, giv­ing the game some credence with schol­ars. 
"God of War" is a fun game, but cer­tainly not worth the $50 for most peo­ple. With study days coming up, rent this game for a nice distraction. It won't take too long to breeze through, and you'll leave feeling satisfied. 
Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbemende@nd.edu 

~­

.--------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Tuesday, April 19, 2005 
page 13 
'Donkey Kong Jungle Beat' brings a ·visceral innovation 
You can play "Jungle Beat" with a By MARIA SMITH regular controller instead of the bongo Senior Stafl' Wrirer drums, but don't bother. Playing with a controller does not even approach play­Looking for a totally original gaming ing with the bongos. It can be difficult PXJWrinncn'? to master the controls of a new game, 
"Donkey Kong Jungle Beat" definitnly and "Jungle Beat" can certainly be rnnets tho ordnr. Only Nintendo would tricky. think to harnoss tho pownr or the bongo But unlike multi-player shooter drum in controlling thnir wcll-lovnd games, in which not knowing the con­cartoon ape. The rnsult is fantastic -trols can mean dying three times in two nothing in the world or video games is minutes, putzing around in "Jungle quito as visenral as boating bongos and Beat" is almost as fun as playing when clapping your way to becoming thn nnw you actually know what you're doing. 
king of thn jungln. Tho narly levnls are forgiving of players 

Photo courtesy of www.nintendo.com "Donkey Kong Jungle Beat" uses bongo-drum controllers Instead of the normal hand-held controller to allow Donkey Kong to grab bananas and smash enemies. 
By MARK BEMENDERFER Scene Wrirer 
Political thrillers are hard to come by in vidno games, let alone ones with decent ploLo.;. 
The averagn vidno game feels as if it wnrn pnnnnd by a teenager, with all tho angst and illogical trappings that follow. So it is a rare treat that a famous author like Tom Clancy has helmed the plot lwhind the "Splinter Cell" theories. 
Torn Clancy is no stranger to political thrillers or video games for that matter. !laving already written many books on polities, he has branched out into video games. Initially. he fostered the "Hainbow Six" series of games, which were well received and critically acclaimed. Now Clancy is lending his name and talents to "Splinter Cell" -and what a series it has become. 
"Splinter Cell" is now in its third install­ment and has grown to define the modern stealth action game. The plots always revolve around the standard Clancy for­mula, with the protagonist traveling around the world and foiling the bad !,ruys. Usually there is someone who needs to be rescued, or someone else needs to be interrogated. However, the mission who are still figuring out what combi­nation of beats makes Donkey Kong jump, explode enemies or scale walls. 

You might be tempted to take a break when your hands start to sting from clapping and your shoulders get sore from trying to collect bananas or explode warthogs as fast as possible. I land the drums off and enjoy the spec­tacle of your friends intently bongo­drumming -it's almost as fun as play­ing the game yourself. 
If you feel like goofing around more than speed­ing through the levels. you can even try a unique two-player arrange­ment. Put one pnrson on drum duty whilf\ the other takes !~are of the clapping, and see what you can get done. 
Some modern incarnations of' older characters are put into 3-D and look so different from the originals that they lose some of their nostalgic value. ".Jungle Beat" latches onto the nostalgie value of the 2-D Donkey Kong at tho same time that it latehes onto the appeal of' innovation with the controller. The resulting graphics aren't fabulous, but they certainly do the job. 
lronieally, one of the biggest problems with this game is that once you've real­ly mastered the controls, there's not all that much challenge to the game. It's fun to see how long you can stay air­borne, especially sinen longer air time jumping from walls to vines to over­sized llowers earns you bonus bananas, but if you've worked your way through tho lower levels, there's not much chance of sustaining serious damage in tho higher ones. 
Ilopel'ully Nintendo will come out with a more challenging sPquol to ".Jungle Beat" soon, so that the nnw drumming 
skills of 


garners won't go to waste. 
".I ungle Boat" is likely to f'ind a w i d e audiencP or kids ­this is about as harmlnss 

as games come and is one of tlw few that will actually gnt your lwart-ratn going. But "Jungle Beat" is also a grnat novelty for older gamnrs and a fun foray for dabblers who want. to play somnthing exciting without mastnring the morn eomplkat.NI 3-D games and controls. This is also a great party game almost anyono will nnjoy pick­ing it up for at lnast a brief try. 
So if you'rn one of the loyal NinteiHio fans who owns a GanwCube, make sun~ you pick up Nintendo's most crnativn recent innovation. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
'Splinter Cell Chaos Theory' is a reason to own an xBox 
plotlines are not what stand out. A typical mission would seem at home in a couple of different games. 
Unlike previous versions, the player is given more of an option on how to pro­ceed through each level. Sam Fisher, the hero of "Splinter Cell," is a eovert opera­tive with many lethal skills. However, players did not previously get to see much of those skills, since Fisher had to remain in the shadows and avoid detection. 
The third installment has taken a dill'er­ent route. While it is recommended that Fisher stay in the shad­ows, this is not always necessary. 
For exam­ple -the rebels have a hostage in their camp. and only the hero can rescue him. Slinking through the shadows, you notice a spot­light you can't avoid. Taking out your pis­tol, you shoot out the light, and proeeed forward. A guard suddenly appears, drawn by the noise. In a few seconds he might see you, and raise the alarm. However, taking him out might expose your position. Such is one of the many choices given to the player. 
In a scene like this, players can use more aggressive routes and heavier weapons to move through the level. 
It is in the multiplayer setting that this game truly shines. For the first time, a cooperative mode has been added to "Splinter Cell." This mode is standalone, separate from the main game. Two play­ers can be operatives in training and help each other through many levels of espi­onage. It can also be done on a split­screen, so people without Live or a sys­tem link can still play together. 
The deathmatch style of multiplayer is still very good as well. Introduced in the second "Splinter Coli," the deathmatch revolves approximately four players. Splinter Cell took a more thoughtful route than other games in doing away with the frenetic multiplayer. 
The four players are broken into two teams ­tho meren­
·" 
naries and the spins. The spies play a lot like tlw s i n g I n playnr campaign. Tlwir view is in the third per­
son, and 

they can perform all tlH~ aerobatie trieks Sam Fisher eould. Tho mercenaries play a bit morn like the standard dnathmatch. Given a first person view similar to Halo's, they are given weapons and must prevent the spies from achieving their objective. The combination of the two teams can lead to some intonsn death­matches, as both sides are given some nasty little tricks. 
Overall, this is a very fun game. When in need of a stealth fix, look no further. "Splinter Cell Chaos Theory" is one of the reasons to own an X-Box. 

Contact Mark Bemenderfer at mbcmende@nd.cdu 
Tuesday, April 19, 2005 

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Yankees score 13 runs in second inning and end slide 
Red Sox win Patriots' Day game; Tigers beat O's 
Associated Press inning. the bats well." Rodriguez added a two-run Logan did the job in the field, NEW YORK -The New York homer off Carter in the third and too, reaching far over the 7 -foot Yankees responded quickly fol­just missed his third career wall to take away home runs lowing George Steinbrenner's three-homer game when he dou­from Gibbons and Brian Roberts. criticism. bled off the right-center fence in "I just let my natural ability Alex Rodriguez, Tino Martinez the seventh. take over," he said. and the Yankees broke out fGr 13 Tampa Bay fought back Jason Johnson (2-1) was the runs in a record-setting second against Wright, who barely last­beneficiary of the Tigers' most inning Monday night on the way ed long enough to earn the easy productive offensive showing of to a 19-8 rout of the Tampa Bay win. He was charged with eight the season. The former Orioles Devil Rays. runs and 11 hits in 5 1-3 innings. pitcher gave up two runs and 
One day after Steinbrenner Aubrey Huff hit a three-run seven hits in seven innings. lashed out at his $200 million homer for Tampa Bay, which has "I was real comfortable, and team for its 4-8 start, the lost 11 straight at Yankee the guys were making some seri­
Yankees quickly showed just Stadium and four in a row over­ous plays behind me," the right­how powerful they can be when all. Julio Lugo had three hits and hander said. "That makes it the offense is clicking. two RBis. easy, and it was great that they 
Rodriguez homered twice, Bell gave up 10 runs and nine gave me some runs to work doubled twice and finished with hits in 1 1-3 innings. with." five hits. He drove in six runs In his previous start, Johnson and scored five times. Martinez Tigers 13, Orioles 3 was lifted after giving up five hit a grand slam and knocked in Dmitri Young and the Detroit runs against Minnesota and get­six runs. Bernie Williams had Tigers did an effective job of ting only one out. three hits and Jason Giambi obliterating the euphoria the Roberts extended his hitting scored three runs, making a win­Baltimore Orioles derived from streak to 13 games, but Miguel ner of Jaret Wright {2-1) despite their uplifting three-game sweep Tejada's run of nine straight his poor outing. of the New York Yankees. games with an RBI ended. 
It all started in the second, Young went 3-for-5 with a Erik Bedard (0-1) gave up New York's biggest inning ever at homer and three RBis, leading a eight runs and nine hits in 4 2-3 Yankee Stadium. The Yankees 16-hit attack that carried Detroit innings, a performance that sent 17 batters to the plate dur­to a victory Monday night. raised his ERA from 1.50 to 5.40. ing an incredible outburst that Jay Gibbons homered for the "I threw some good pitches Monster and losing two fly balls tainty about the second homer in lasted 34 minutes. They got 11 Orioles, who climbed into first and they hit them," Bedard said, in the sun, and Curt Schilling got the sixth that drove in two runs. hits, ineluding seven in a row, place in the AL East with their "and I threw some bad pitches his first win as the Boston Red That drive hit just above the and 10 consecutive hitters weekend sweep of the New York and they hit them." Sox beat the Toronto Blue Jays red line on the wall for a homer, reached safely. Yankees. Each of those three Detroit used a three-run fifth Monday. but bounced back onto the field. 
Hideki Matsui drew a leadoff games was a sellout, but only inning to go up 8-2. Inge walked It was a strange day at Fenway Third-base umpire Bob Davidson walk before Rodriguez hit a two­16,301 showed up for this one­and Ivan Rodriguez and Young Park, from the 11:08 a.m. start originally ruled the ball was in run shot off Rob Bell (1-1). the smallest crowd in the 14-hit successive RBI doubles before for the Patriots Day holiday to a play and Ramirez stopped at sec­
Giambi doubled, Jorge Posada year history of Camden Yards. Craig Monroe greeted Rick flyover by two jets marking the ond. Then the umpires conferred grounded out and Martinez hit Orioles manager Lee Mazzilli Bauer with an RBI single. start of the Boston Marathon and changed the call to a homer, an RBI single. Tony Womack fol­gathered his players before the A two-run single by Inge and a while Schilling was on the Ramirez's fourth of the season. lowed with a single off the first­game and stressed the impor­two-run homer by Young -his mound to the ejection of Toronto Gibbons rushed onto the field base bag, and Derek Jeter drove tance of playing with the same first since hitting three on open­manager John Gibbons. to argue and was ejected. in a run with a single. intensity they showed against the ing day -made it 12-2 in the Schilling and Ramirez were in Boston scored seven runs off 
Williams and Gary Sheffield Yankees, but his speech went for sixth, and backup catcher Vance the center of it all as Boston won Dave Bush (0-2), who left with followed with consecutive RBI naught. Wilson hit an RBI single in the its fifth in a row. no outs in the third. Kevin Millar singles, and Matsui singled to "We were a little flat," he said eighth. Boston's ace labored in his sec­singled in a run in the first, Trot load the bases. afterward. "We don't like it, but "We'II win some games if we ond start of the season and bare­Nixon got an RBI single and 
Rodriguez hit a two-run double we'll deal with it." can hit like this," Logan said. ly made it through the fifth Ramirez hit his homer in the sec­to left, making it 8-0 and chasing The Tigers, on the other hand, The barrage started with the inning to qualify for the win with ond. Mark Bellhorn added a two­Bell. sustained the momentum creat­very frrst batter. Inge opened the 118 pitches and a 9-3 lead. He run double in the third. 
Giambi was walked intention­ed by winning the final two game with a double, took third got out of two bases-loaded Johnny Damon also drove in ally by reliever Lance Carter, and games of their series in Kansas on a groundout and scored on jams, one when he struck out two runs with a third-inning sin­Posada hit an RBI single. City. Rodriguez's fly ball to the warn­Frank Catalanatto to end the gle for a 9-llead. Martinez then hit a 3-1 pitch Omar Infante hit his first ing track in left. second inning moments after the The Blue Jays scored on over the right-field fence for his homer of the season to help In the bottom half, Sammy flyover. Vernon Wells' double in the 11th career slam and a 13-0 Detroit cruise to its first win Sosa hit into a double play with With two outs, Schilling third, and Ramirez helped them lead. against Baltimore since May 7, runners at the corners and one allowed Catalanotto's two-run score two unearned runs in the 
With one out in the second 2003. The Tigers went 0-6 out. But Gibbons put the Orioles single in the fifth, then struck out fourth. inning, every New York starter against the Orioles last season, up 2-1 in the second with his Gregg Zaun. Schilling (1-1), who With one out, he fought the had a hit and a run scored. scoring a total of 17 runs. rrrst homer, a shot to right after started the season on the dis­sun -perhaps unaccustomed to 
The last time the Yankees Every Detroit starter except a single by Javy Lopez. abled list after undergoing ankle its position so early in the day ­scored 13 runs in an inning was Carlos Pena got at least one hit. After Infante led off the third surgery last Nov. 8, allowed five and was charged with a two­June 21, 1945, in the fifth inning Brandon lnge went 3-for-3 with with a home run, Logan singled runs in 5 2-3 innings against the base error on Orlando Hudson's of a 14-4 victory at Boston. The two walks, two RBis and three and scored on a double-play New York Yankees in his other fly near the wall. Russ Adams franchise record is 14 runs in the runs scored, and Nook Logan got grounder. A run-scoring start. singled in a run before fifth inning on July 6, 1920, three hits and twice robbed the grounder by Pena and a two-out Ramirez drove in five runs and Catalanatto hit another fly to left against the Senators in Orioles of homers with leaping RBI single by Infante made it 5-2 had his second two-homer game that Ramirez struggled with, and Washington. catches in center field. in the fourth. in three days and 41st multiple the ball fell for a double and 
The last time New York got 11 "It's a lot of fun when things go homer game of his career. another run. hits in an inning was April 11, well. This is a great lineup to be Red Sox 12, Blue Jays 7 There was no doubt about the Zaun then hit a ball that 1987, against Kansas City. And part of, and we can do a lot of Manny Ramirez spent an first one, a three-run shot in the Ramirez caught for a sacrifice fly the Devil Rays set a team record damage out there," Logan said. adventurous day in left field, hit­second that cleared the left-field and the crowd cheered and for most runs allowed in an "Tonight everyone was swinging ting two homers over the Green seats. There was plenty of uncer-chanted, "Man-ny, Man-ny." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content withour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

New London Lakes Condo, walking 6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK 5-bedroom house for rent 2005-06. 4 bdrm house, 1.5 distance to ND, 3 bedrooms, 2 FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER Close to campus. 105 Marquette tia.Furnished.Family or 2 grad stu-WANTED FoR SALE baths, lake view, 2 car garage, pool, MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAG· Ave. 232-6964. dents. $900/mo + utilities. Close to completely remodeled $129,900 ULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876-ND. 287-7189 or lv msg Roommate to share rent for my (574) 256-2198 or (574) 255-3930 3537. 2 bdrm, 1 bath remodeled furnished 
2bdrm apt. 570-814-2716 or email: IRISH CROSSINGS Luxury homes house close to· ND, $700/mo. Nice homes close to ND.Great rnmurph21 @nd.edu one block east of campus. Now Nice homes close to ND.Great 2844089,9-5pm; 703·7276217 after area.AII amenities. 19237 Cleveland under construction! For more infor-area.AII amenities. 19237 5pm 6·7bdrm;202 E. Cripe 4bdrm;222 
FoR RENT
RECEPTIONIST/PHOTO ASST. mation: Go to: Cleveland 6-7bdrm;202 E. Cripe E.Willow 3bdrm 2773097 Busy photo studio looking for a www.lrishCrossings.com Email: 4bdrm;222 E.Willow Furnished 1-bdrm apt.Free laun­motivated, detail oriented reception-lrishCrossings@gmail.com Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 3bdrm.2773097 dry. No smokers,no pets. On bus 2,4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus,
. 

ist/photo asst. Computer, phone, bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask route,2 mi to ND. 350+utilities. 289-call 234-9923, ask for Rod. customer service experience pre-Brand name Queen pillowiop mat-about FREE student rent program. STUDENT RENTALS $400 PER 9365. !erred. Please call Kelly at 259-tress set. New in plastic. Full war-Blue & Gold Homes (574)250-7653. MONTH All utilities, ADT security, 4-5 bdrm,2 bath house in SB. Lots 3262. ranty. $185.574-876-4474 phone/cable/DSL, WID, Lawn serv-2005-06 $250-300/mo. Furn.rooms. of room. Call Judy 574-298-6217. 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING ice. 2,3,4,5 bdrms. Avaii.05/06. Call Country setting,10 mi to ND.Non-Seeking college student for summer Full mattress set with warranty. DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 315-3215 smokers. Private entrance, laun-2&3 bdrm houses close to ND. child care for 14&12 yr old. Call1· Unopened in Plastic. Sacrifice S.B. AVE-605 ST. PETER CALL dry,kitchenette,cable & util incl. 289-$350/mo/person.Lawn service & 9947 or 277-8564 and ask for Lisa. $145. 574-231-4522. 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM www.andersonNDrentals.com 9365. appliances incl. 273-4889. 
----~--------------------------------------------------------------------1 
I I 
Tuesday, April 19, 2005 page 15
The Observer + SPORTS 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK 
Irish have successful weekend in California 
Another part of the team performs well in Indianapolis' Big East qualifications 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
Maryann l~righa struck gold in California this weekend. 
Tlw Irish sprintnr won two 1wnnts and snt a sehool rncord in tlw 100-metnrs. highlighting a busy wnnknnd for the Notre Ilanw Wonwn's trark tnam. 
Notr·n Damn took ninn athletes to the Mt. San Antonio College Hnlays in Walnut, Calil"., while llw rost or the hmm compotod in tlw Indy Hnlays hostml by Butlor Univ11rsity. 
Compnting against tho best the rollegiatn track eireuit has to oiTnr, t.hn Irish shined in California. highlighted by l·:righa's victories. Tho sopho­more, who was hampered by injurins last spring, had hnr best mnnl as a collegian. 
Ilor narrow victory in tho l 00 in 11.2X sne.onds broke Notrn Damn's night-ynar-old school rnmrd by two tenths of a soe.ond. Slw also won tho 200-rnotnrs in 2:L2X see.onds. 
Ilnr times rank among the top I0 in both events in tho NCAA. 
Coach Tim Connelly was imprnssm.l with Erigha. but not nntiroly surprised. 
"Slw's bnnn getting better all snason," Connnlly said. "llnr injury last ynar really set her baek. but now wo arn seoing her pot1mtial." 
Stnphanin Madia was solid in l'inishing fourth in the 5,000-ond race of the season. moter run. llor training partner· Connelly said Meagher's strong Sunni Olding struggled. Al'l.er finish encouraged him, adding jumping out with tho lead pack that he felt Meagher would be 
early, the fresh- much  more  com­ 
man faltnrod in tho final 500 motors and fin­ "{Erigha 'sf injury last year really set  petitive after run­ning a few more races.  
ished in 17th plaen. Connolly attrib­uted the mistake  her back, but now we are seeing her potential."  In Indianapolis, the remainder of the Irish squad took advantage of the  
to inexperience.  lesser competition  
"They IOlding and Madia) went out raster than  Tiin Connelly Irish coach  to notch nine Big East qualifications and seven ovent  
they  did  at  victories.  

Stanford Iearlier this season I Meghan llorn qualified for and Sunni paid for it. She just eonferenco in three field events couldn't keep up, but she's only a -the discus, hammer throw freshman," Connelly said. "Sunni and shot put. ller 13.96-meter knew what hap-throw in tho shot pened, and she'll put was enough for learn from this. "This weekend a victory and quali­Soon onou-gh fication in tho Big
showed us who has 
she'll be able to East and NCAA 
a decent shot at 
go out fast and regional meets. 
keep that pace." the Big East and Other nvent win­Erigha, Madia who will be ners included and Olding have Jennifer Leong in
· pushing for
all qualil'ied for the 400 meters, the NCAA Jae.kie Cartf1r in the
NCAA's." 
Mideast regional 800 meters, Dom­with their times. enique Manning in
Tim Connelly
.Joining them as the 100 meter hur­
Irish coach
rngional quali­dles, Julie Opet in l'iors worn the steeplechase Lauren King in the 10,000 met­and Dee Dee Bryant in the pole ers, Okechi Ogbuokiri in the 400 vault. meter run, and Kerry Meagher After a . busy . weekend, in the 1500 motor run. Meagher Connelly rellected on his team's finished seventh in just her see-progross. 

"This weekend showed us who has a decent shot at the Big East and who will be pushing for NCAA's," Connelly said. "The kids are getting to the point where they are lit. Now it's just a matter of turning fitness into racing performance." 
Next weekend will again be 
busy for the tnam as the Irish are scheduled to compote at throe meots -tho Indiana lntereollcgiatns, tho Eastern Michigan Invitational and tho. Central Collngiatns. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer1@nd.edu 

9:00am • April20, 2005 • Center for Continuing Education (McKenna Hall), Room 100 • University ofNotre Dame 
FEATURED SPEAKERS: 
Yuri Balashov, Department ofPhilosophy, University ofGeorgia, USA • Ikaros Bigi, Department ofPhysics, University ofNotre Dame, USA Harvey Brown, faculty ofPhilosophy and Wolfson College, Oxford University • Jeremy Butterfield, Faculty of Philosophy and All Souls College, Oxford University Sean Carroll, Department ofPhysics, University c~f Chicago, USA • Peter Garnavich, Department of Physics, University of Notre Dame, USA Joel Primack, Department of Physics, University ofCalifornia, USA • Bill Stoeger, Vatican Observatory, University ofArizona, USA 
Contact: (574) 631-6788 • www.jinawelwrg • (574) 631-5015 • reilly@nd.edu 
Sponsored by: /INA (/oint I11stitute ofNuclear Astrophysics: an NSF Physics frontier center) 

f*:1UNIVERSITY OF
CANDU (Center for Astrophysics at Notre Dame) 
WNOTREDAME
Department ofPhysics History & Philosophy ofScience Graduate Program 
r 
I 
I page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, April 19, 2005 
MLB 

Boston fan banned from Fenway Park 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -The spectator who interfered with New York Yankees right fielder Gary Sheffield had his season tickets for 2005 revoked Monday by the Boston Red Sox. · 
A fan who spilled beer on Sheffield was prohibited from buying tickets for the rest of the season. 
"That just proves I wasn't in the wrong, and that's what this is all about," Sheffield said in New York. "Yeah, you try to represent the game the right way, but then being told you're in the wrong for reacting to something you didn't start, that's kind of dis­turbing. That just makes me feel like it's a hypocritical society." 
The resolution announced by the Red Sox does not ban the men from Fenway Park this year and leaves it up to the club to decide whether the season ticket holder, Chris House, will get those tickets reinstated for 2006. 
"We selected a course of action that we thought was appropriate and enforceable," club spokesman Glenn Geffner said. 
House, in a statement issued through his lawyer, David T. Norton, said he had "no inten­tion" of striking Sheffield and that he does not believe he made contact with the outfielder. 

"It is ridiculous for anyone to even suggest that I punched him or even attempted to," House said, describing himself as a 12­year season ticket holder. 
"I was shocked and disappoint­ed by his [Sheffield's] reaction, and I thank Red Sox security and Boston Police for quickly coming to my assistance." 
New York manager Joe Torre was pleased with the team's decision, as was owner George Steinbrenner. 
"We applaud the Red Sox for decisively dealing with this mat­ter," Steinbrenner said in a state­ment issued through spokesman Howard Rubenstein. 
Boston acted after a four-day investigation following the play last Thursday night at Fenway Park in which Sheffield was chasing a ball along the low right-field wall that Jason Varitek hit for a triple. 
House reached over the 3-foot high fence, and Sheffield said he was struck in the face. Sheffield picked up the ball, pushed House, then threw the ball to the infield. Sheffield turned toward House but did not make contact with him again as a security guard jumped over the wall and stood between House and Sheffield. 




Students Fly Cheaper 
summer travel, study abroad & more 
Sample airfares from South Bend:  Sample airfares from Chicago:  
Atlanta  $168  Toronto  $170  
Denver  $168  London  $535  
New York  $168  Rio de Janeiro  $672  
San Diego  $233  Sydney  $1020  


NFL 

ESPN gets Monday Night Football 
rently broadcasts Sunday night 
NBC will now pick up 
games, keeps the brand under 
Sunday night prime The Disney Company umbrella. 
Disney owns both ESPN and
time coverage ABC. 
After the coming season, ABC 

Associated Press 

NEW YORK-"Monday Night Football," a television institu­tion that over 35 years has helped transform the NFL into a prime-time .ratings draw, is leaving ABC and moving to ESPN beginning with the 2006 season. 
The new broadcast deal also brings the NFL to NBC for the first time since 1997. The net­work gets Sunday night football -which the league now con­siders its marquee television showcase -and will employ a flexible scheduling model. 
"In the current media envi­ronment, Sunday is now the better night for our prime-time broadcast package," commis­sioner Paul Tagliabue said Monday. 
Moving "Monday Night Football" to ESPN, which cur­-which pioneered modern tel­evision sports in bringing pro football to prime time -will be the only major network not to carry the NFL. "Monday Night Football" has been a pillar of ABC since it began in 1970, when Howard Cosell anchored the show that now stands as the second-longest running prime time network series, trailing CBS's 60 Minutes by two years. 
NBC will start its Sunday broadcasts with a pregame show at 7 p.m. eastern; games will begin at 8:15. The network plans to use a flexible schedul­ing model in the last seven weeks, allowing it to shift after­noon games to prime time to ensure more meaningful games are shown on national TV. 
Monday night games will shift to the earlier start time of 8:40 p.m. eastern on ESPN. 
"The earlier kickoff times for both packages, NBC's Sunday night programming devoted to the NFL and flexible scheduling for Sunday night are all positive changes," Tagliabue said. 
ESPN, which has been broad­casting Sunday night games since 1998, will pay $1.1 billion a year over eight years for Monday night games, two sources familiar with the deals told The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. 
Under its current eight-year, $4.4 billion contract, ABC has paid an average of $550 million per year to broadcast "Monday Night Football" -exactly one­half of the annual average that ESPN has agreed to pay. 
NBC will get the Sunday night package for $600 million a year over six years, according to the sources. That annual figure is the same price ESPN paid for Sunday night football over the course of its current eight-year deal. NBC will also get the Super Bowl in 2009 and 2012. 

Graduation Weekend: Your stomach will thank you. 
After four yeors ond over 3,027 dorm meals, you 
MISHAWAKA. IN. 

deserve ot least one outstanding meol thot isn't 258.9999 
served on odining holl troy.
327 Union Street, Mishawaka 

N Now taking reservations for Graduation Weekend Dinners: Thursday, Friday and Saturday from 5pm to Midnight.
• 

www.UnionStationMishawaka.com 
steaks • chops. seafood 


,.urtle Creek Apartments 
GET IT WHILE IT'S HOT! 
• 
Walk to campus 

• 
Hook-up with friends, just blocks from your favorite night spots 

• 
Bronze yourself at our pool 

• 
Keep your car clean in our carports 


866.395.4201 
www.aimco.com 1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 
Bring this coupon in to receive 
1 MONTH FREE* 
* Restrictions Apply Expires 4/30/05 





OUND THE NATION 
Tuesday, April 19, 2005 CoMPJ LED FROM THE 0HSERVER's w1 RE SERVICES page I? 
NBA 

Eastern Conference, Atlantic 
!NUll rm~ord pnrc . last 10 GB Boston 45·35 .563 7·3 Philadelphia 42·39 .519 7-3 3.5 New Jersey 40·40 .500 8-2 5.0 Toronto 32·48 .400 3-7 13.0 New York 32·48 .400 3·7 13.0 
Eastern Conference, Central 
tPam rPC'OI'd pl\rC. last 10 GB Detroit 53-27 .663 10·0 Chicago 46·34 .575 7·3 7.0 Indiana 43·38 .531 6·4 10.5 Cleveland 40·40 .500 3·7 13.0 Milwaukee 30·51 .370 3-7 23.5 
Eastern Conference, Sou~heast 
tna m record perc . last .10 (IB 
Miami 57-23 .713 4-6 

Washington 45-35 .563 5·5 12.0 Orlando 36-45 .444 2·8 21.5 Charlotte 17-63 .213 2·8 40.0 Atlanta 13-67 .163 2·8 40.0 
Western Conference, Northwest 
tP:trn rerord pore. last 1 0 GB 
Seattle 52-28 .650 3-7 

Denver 48-32 .600 9·1 4.0 
Minnesota 43-38 .531 6·4 9.5 
Portland 26-54 .325 2·8 26.0 
Utah 26-55 .321 4·6 26.5 
Western Conference, Pacific 
tnarn rneord pore.. last 10 GB Phoenix 61·19 .763 8-2 Sacramento 49·32 .605 6-4 12.5 L.A. Clippers 36-45 .444 4-6 25.5 L.A. Lakers 34-46 .425 1·9 27.0 Golden State 32-48 .400 7-3 29.0 
Western Conference, Southwest 
tnam roc~oni pnn:. last 10 GB San Antonio 59-22 .728 6-4 Dallas 56-24 .700 9-1 2.5 Houston 50-31 .617 7-3 9.0 Memphis 45-36 .556 5-5 14.0 New Orleans 18-63 .222 1-9 41.0 
NCAA Baseball Big East Conference 
team record previous 
1 Texas 32-6 1 2 Cal State Fullerton 26·9 2 3 Tulane 32-6 3 4 Georgia Tech 29-7 4 5 Florida 27-9 5 6 Arizona 26-11 6 7 Miami 29-9 9 8 Baylor 25-13 12 9 Oregon Slate 27-7 11 10 Long Beach Slate 27-12 16 11 Nebraska 31-7 17 12 North Carolina 28·8 7 13 South Carolina 29-8 8 14 Arkansas 30·8 10 15 Rice 26-13 15 16 Tennessee 25-10 23 17 Missouri 27-9 13 18 Alabama 26-12 18 19 College of Carleston 29-6 19 20 Louisiana State 26-12 22 21 Arizona Stale 25-15 NR 22 louisiana-lafayette 32-7 NR 23 Florida State 33·11 20 24 Stanford 20-14 14 25 Southern California 22-10 25 
around the dial 
MLB 

Cubs at Reds, 7:10p.m., ESPN Braves at Astros, 8:05p.m., TBS 
NBA 

Bucks at 76ers, 7 p.m., UPN 
Pacers at Magic, 7 p.m., WB 
CYCLING 


Associated Press 

One of the greatest ath­letes of this nra, or any other, ended months of speculation Monday by announcing his rotirement. Staying in character, Lance Armstrong saved the biggest mountain to climb for last. 
"Whonever I wateh sport, whatever sport it may hap­pen to be, I love to see the guy go out on top," he said. "I would love to do that." 
No one, not oven Armstrong, knows at the momont what it will take to win a seventh Tour de France . .Just don't try telling his rivals that. Until Armstrong rolled smoothly onto the wide boulevard of the Champs-Elyses wearing the yellow jersey last sum­mer, no cyclist had over won six Tours, never mind all six in a row. He's won them easy and early, won them sick and hanging on with both hands, once after crashing and another time when he was barely jostled. 
But to win the next one, Armstrong will have to pre­pare once more for all thosn things, and do it an age when all the other great champions, with their eautionary tales strewn all around him, were effective­ly finished. lie turns :H in September. 
"The body just doesn't keep going and going," 
Armstrong said. Whieh con­veniently leaves out that at least until now, his has bonn the exception to the rule. 
Considering the siz11 and topography of thn stage ­21 stages, aetually, eovering 2,222 miles -you bet against thn grandest of exits by one of the greatest eompetitors ever at your own risk. Either way, tho final lap of Armstrong's eareor should provo every bit as faseinating as his breakthrough win at the Tour in 1999 -and that ono came al'tor outlasting a deadly form of testicular caneer. 
It was also before the spotlight found Armstrong, and he found out what a costly, uncomfortable plan~ it can bo. Intnnso as Uw scrutiny is ovnr lwre, it palos in comparison to what he fat~es on tho ol.lwr sido of tho Atlantic. Ovor thorn, Armstrong is Barry Bonds on wheels. 1\vnry appearancn rnsnmbles an intorrogation, and nvnry thing hn says is parsed and thnn plumbed for hiddnn nwanings. Worsn, somn of those appearancos actually arn interrogations. 
According to thn Seotsman nnwspaper, Armstrong is facing at least night lngal battlt~s at tlw momnnt, snveral stmnming from allegations lw usnd perform an ct~ -n n han ~~in g drugs. 
IN BRIEF 

Hamilton suspended from 
cycling for blood-doping 
DENVEH -Olympic gold medalist Tyler Hamilton was suspended Monday from competitive cycling for two years for a blood-doping violation diseoverod at a race in September. 
The suspension was handed down by the independent American Arbitration Association-North Ameriean Court of·Arbitration for Sport. 
Ilo ean return to competition April 17, 2007, but he forleits all competitive results since Sept. 11, 2004, tho day of tho positive test at the Spanish Vuelta. 
The positivn test oceurred the month after I lamilton won the time trial at the Athens Olympics. llamilton lirs1. tnsted positive in Athens, but that ease was dropped after his backup sample was froznn, leaving too few red blood cells to analyze. Tho Hussian Olympic Committee filed an appeal with the Court of Arbitration for Sport seeking to strip I Iamilton of his gold medal and give it to Vyacheslav Ekimov. 
Neither the U.S. Olympic Committee nor llamilton immediately returned Rhone calls for comment. Agassi and Courier to team l!P at the United States Clay Court Championships IIOUSTON -Andre Agassi, playing doubles for just the second time sinee 2001, teamed with former world No. 1 Jim Courier later against Martin Garcia of Argentina and Luis I lorna of Peru. 
Andy Hoddiek, the tournament's top seed, will play Matias Boeker on Tuesday afternoon, and the seeond­seedcd Agassi will follow against Michal Tabara. · 
Melzer broke Puerta in the first game of the second set but fell behind two break points in the sixth gamn. After the third deuee, consecutive service return errors by Puerta gave Melzer the game and a 4-2 lead. 
Melzer broke Puerta again to take the match in the ninth game on the second match point. 
Agassi last played doubles on June 7, 2004, with Hoddiek in a second-round loss to Australians Paul I lanlny and Wayne Arthurs at tlw <)unen's Cluh tournament in London. Courinr has not pJayed on tho ATP tour in live years.Pacers' Johnson suspended
for throwing punch 
NEW YOHK -Indiana guard Anthony Johnson was suspended onn game by tho NBA on Monday for throwing a punch at Miami center Alonzo Mourning. 
Johnson throw the 1mnch with I:41 left in thn lin1rth quarter of tlw Pacers' 84-80 loss at Miami on Sunday. Johnson was fouled by the lleat's Dwyann Wadn, and hn and Mourning appmtrod to collide. 
Johnson thn~w a punch that did not strike Mourning and was apparnnt.ly unnoticed by rnfnn~ns, sincn he was not njnetnd. lin was whistlnd for a tndmical foul. 
Johnson, who averages 8.:~ points and 4.8 assists, snrvnd his suspension Monday night against tlw Orlando Magic. 

.-----------------­
I I 
I 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, Aprill9, 2005 
Complete this crossword to win a free portable dvd player! 
you may submit up to 3 completed puzzles to 203 LaFortune by Wednesday at 5:00pm1 your submissions will be entered into a raffie to win a portable dvd player given away ~t the AnTostal Drive-In Movie showing Billy Madison on Wednesday, April 20th at 9:00pm on North Quad 
brought to you by the student union board. SUB.NO.EOU 

Mean 
continued from page 24 
to go deep into the tournament. 
"A scrappy team can go a long way in Bookstore if things are going their way," he said. "They can go as far as their energy can take them."· 
Looking For a Sponsor at the Moment 21, Brady, Where'd You Get That Tan? 8 
Jerome Collins is hoping to hear his name announced this weekend at the NFL Draft. But for now, the tight end is focus­ing his attention on winning Bookstore Basketball. 
Collins came one step closer to his goal Monday night as he led Looking For a Sponsor at the Moment to a 21-8 victory over Brady, Where'd You Get That Tan?. 
Collins asserted himself early, controlling the glass and pre­venting Brady, Where'd You Get That Tan? from getting any­thing going offensive.ly on the inside. Rhema McKnight's quick-ness and outside shooting also proved very difficult to defend. 
Brady, Where'd You Get That Tan? hustled to keep the game competitive against the much bigger third-seeded team. The passing of captain Steve Patton and defensive intensity of guard Mike Manzo impressed the crowd and caused some prob­lems for Looking For a Sponsor at the Moment. 
"I think I had the obvious ath­letic advantage over Rhema, but he just had too much heart," Patton said. 
Collins was impressed with 
the play of his opponents. 
"I thought they we.re pretty good," he said. "It wasn't like this was an easy game. They played well tonight." 
Looking For a Sponsor at the Moment captain Joe McClyde agreed with Collins, saying he respected Brady, Where'd You Get That Tan? for how hard the team played Monday night. 
McClyde also stressed that his team needed to work on its chnmistry as it advances deeper into the tournament. 
"This is the s·econd game we have had everyone together for, so it was a good chance to get used to playing with each other," McClyde said. "If we can play hard and gel as a team, we are going to be pretty hard to stop." 
Manzo was disappointed in his team's loss, but maintained that a smaller victory had been won over Looking For a Sponsor at the Moment. 
"At least our team name was funny," he said. Collins agreed with Manzo wholeheartedly. 
"I actually like that name a lot because I'd like to know where Brady got that tan too," Collins said. "If they find out, they should definitely let me know." 
CoCoa Butter 21 -Nausea, Indigestion, Heartburn, Upset Stomach, Matt Biscaia 8 
Hon Dokes continued his dom­inance of Bookstore Basketball Monday night, leading CoCoa Butter to another lopsided win. The former Duquesne center who recently finished a profes­sional season in Turkey had seven points, six of them com­ing on dunks. 
"This guy played professional basketball in Europe," Nausea center Eamonn Bahnson said. "We have been to Europe, that's about as far as the comparison goes." 

Nausea felt good about its chances early on, though. 
"We were playing them close," Matt Biscaia said. "It was 0-0 and then 1-1. I think our main problem was Matt Biscaia didn't get enough touch­es." 
CoCoa Butter quickly ran away with the game, however, behind the inside dominance of Dokes and superior perimeter play of Bobby Brown and cap­tain Lance Wescher. The crowd erupted when, midway through the first half, Dokes stole the ball from Drew Donovan and promptly threw down a toma­hawk dunk on the other end of the court. 
"I think one of the big factors 

was that they had about a foot and 100 pounds on each of us ... and the dunks," Bahnson said. 
CoCoa Butter, the 11th-seeded team in the tournament, moves on to the round of 32 but has yet to face a significant chal­lenge. While Wescher is happy with the team's success, he is worried that the team might get surprised at some point when the level of play is heightened. 
"The teams we have played so far haven't been bad, just small," Wescher said. ''I'm afraid of running into a team down the line that is much bet­ter than the teams we have played so far." 
Dokes shares Wescher's con­

cern and feels the team must 
continue to come together as a 
group to go deep into the tour­
nament. 

"There's a couple teams out nament, w~ need to work on here that play really well our team chemistry. Athleticism together," Dokes said. "They are can only take you so far." scary matchups. We could lose any night. Contact Kevin Brennan at 
"As we go further in the tour-kbrenna4@nd.edu 
·­
name: email: 

*nd students only' 
Across 
2. Over 2,000 of these are cleaned by Building Services every day on campus. 
4. No shirt, no shoes, no _, no problem. 
9. Eye candy in anTostal drive-in movie Billy Madison. 
11. Asian capital city where anTostal speaker Ken Jennings spent the majority of his childhood. 
Down 

1. Coolest week of the year. 
3. This year Malloy, next year ___ 
5. 
NO President Emeritus, holds world record for most honorary degrees. 

6. 
Get your ships ready, the Fisher is coming up soon. 

7. 
THe first NO football game was played against the 


University of ____ 8.. Students go here for concerts, comedians, good food, and more. 
10. Largest dorm on campus. 

Tuesday, April 19, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Linebacker dies at 45 frolll intestinal cancer 
Sam Mills went to five Pro Bowls in his 
12-year pro career 

AsM>datcd Press 
C:II/\HI.O'ITI·:. N.C. -Small in stat.un\ Sam Mills was a giant hoi h on and ofT tlw football liPid. 
Told :i-foot-1J was too small to bn a profnssional linnhac~knr, tnams didn't givn him tryouts and agnnL'i rnfusnd to rnprnsnnt him. Norw of it stoppn~l Miffs, who WPnt on to makn fivp, Pro Bowls in a stnllar 12-yna.r NFL c·arnnr. 
Mills c~ouldn't boat c.ancnr, though. lin dind at his honw Monday af'tnr a two-ynar battle with intnstinal c~arH~nr. lin was 4!i. 
"Sam was orw of tlw finnst pPoph~ you will cwnr mont. You would nnwr know that lw was a playnr who madn Pro Bowls and had all this attnntion lwcausn lw trnatnd nvnrybody tlw samn no matt11r who thoy wNn," Carolina gnnnral man­agnr Marty llurnny said. "lin nnvm had a bad thing to say about anybody and had a ~-,rrnat ability to laugh at hirnsnlf. 
"lie~ was tho typn of guy you wa!.1t your kids to grow up to hn. 
Tlwrn is a statUI\ of him out­sidn Bank of /\nwriea Stadium and lw is thn only playnr in the loam's IIall of llonor. 
An undnrsiznd linnbacker out of Montrlair (N.J.l Stato who failnd snvnral timns to catr.h on with NFI. and Canadian Football Lnagun teams, Mills gavn profnssional football onn last shot whnn tho USFI. dnbutnd in 11J!G. Aftnr starring in that lnagun for tlw l'hiladnlphia Stars for thrnn ynars, coach Jim Mora brought Mills along to the Saints in 19Hh. 
Mills spnnt nino NFI. seasons with tho Saints, thnn joinnd tho nxpansion Pantlwrs. lin fin­islwd his earnor with 1,319 tacklns whiln starting 173 of IH1 gamns. 
Mills was nleetnd to I .ouisiana's Sports IIall of Farnn. lin is also a nwrnbnr of New Jersny's Sports IIall of Famn. 
"I rmnnmbnr him being tho toughest littln man I've evnr seen in my lifo," said former Saints linnbaeknr Hiekey Jaekson. "lie was mighty mouse -hn'd hit you hard as ho eould cwery timn he hit you. 
"When hn had a bum knne one time, he still showod up every day. lin pushed you. Looking at him doing it made you know you bnttor put out. If a little man like that worked so hard and put out, you better put out for all you wore worth. lie always inspired me to do better, to work harder, to be better." 

Steelers look ahead to draft 
Associated Press 
PITTSBUBGII -One year after ehoosing Bon Hoethlisberger, tho Pittsburgh Stnelnrs are facnd with this perplexing problem heading into the NFL draft: llow do they top that? 
The answer: They don't. 
Tile StcHders don't ehooso until 30th in tho first round, 19 spots lower than when thny seleetnd Honthlisberger with onn of the_ most sueeessful picks in their history. If' thny had passnd on the quartnrbaek who bocame the NFL Ofl'ensivn Hookie of the Year, it ean bn argued they might bo selneting a lot soonor Saturday. 
Choosing just throe pieks before the second round begins, the Stenlers. aren't looking to hit another home run. Hathnr, they'd Hko to add at loast one player who can play immediately -pnrhaps a linebaeknr or an of'J'onsive lineman -then add depth at the numnrous positions where they're thin. 
The Steelers aren't dismiss­ing the possibility their first­rounder can start now. After all, No. 30 pick Kendall Simmons started every game at guard as a 2002 rookio. 
"We sne reports that the draft's soft and not deep, but we're pretty optimistic," diree­tor of football operations Kevin Colbo.rt said Monday. "There's guys definitoly avail­able on the first day that ean help our team." 
Heeent history shows the No. 30 piek can be very produc­tive. The Lions took 1,000­yard baek Knvin .Jonns a year ago, and the Titans got Pro Bowl linebacker Keith Bulluck at No. 30 in 2000. Tlw Colts took prod uetive wide receiver H11ggie Wayne in 2001. 
Colbert and eoaeh Bill Cowher eonsider this drart deep at widn rneniver, corner­back and the offensive line, all areas where the Steelers need more players. They lost throe former starters -wide rnceiv­er Plaxieo Burress, guard Keydriek Vinennt and tackle Olivor Hoss -to frne agency, thus weakening the depth of the team that went 15-1 and was a victory away from the Super Bowl. 


Their only major offseason acquisition so far is former 49ers reeeiver Cedriek Wilson, who will compete with /\ntwaan Handle El to start at Burress' spot. Neither has the 6-foot-5 Burross' sizn, so a tall, rangy receiver might be a draft day fit. So might a lino­baeker for their 3-4 defnnsn or a cornnrback to ehallnnge holdovnr Willie Williams. 
"This is the fastest group of wide rnceivers and cornnr­backs I've witnnssed," Colbert said. "I~ was real nxei ti ng to see. It was impressive. It's why we think it's a prntty good draft." 
They would seem to nood help at tight ond, and nithnr Virginia's Heath Millc11· or Stanford's /\lex Smith eould be available. But the Stenlnrs rarely throw to their tight end, who is effectively a sixth of'f'on­sive lineman in thoir systmn, and Cowher doesn't scwm eager to rewrite tho position's job description. 

. ...,. 
"We've been talking about thn tight nnd position since I've boon horn," Cowher said. "It's nnvnr bonn onn that's bonn used much in tho passing game." 
Bneause tho Stc111lers aren't in urgent need at any onn position, Cowher said tlwy have tho frendom to dran the player thny judge thn bnst available. 
"I rnally think wn do havn the~ luxury of not having to r11aeh," Cowhnr said. "Wiwn you're picking on thn first round, you want to takn th<' bnst playnr and Int. the draf't board work itself." 
Tho Steelnrs will rank tlw top players from No. I to :~0 tlw n , i n tlw o r y, r ho o s e tlw playnr thny rank thn highest. It worked las1 ynar, when Honthlisbnrgnr nasily was tlw highest-ranked playc~r left at No. 11. 
Tho Stnnlers will stagn thnir own mock draf'ts Thursday and Friday, but Colbnrt said draf'ting so low obviously ere­atns far morn possibilitins than pieking 1 I th did. 


The 2005 Dome yearbook 
Distribution to undergrads: (no charge-just show I D) 
Tuesday, Apri119 

11:30-5-LaFortune, Room 108 4:30-7:30-North Dining Hall (Farley-side porch) 

Wednesday, April 20 
11:30-5-LaFortune, Room 108 
4:30 -9:30-South Dining Hall 

Thursday, April 21 
11:30 -5 -LaFortune, Room 108 
('02, '03, '04 yearbooks will be available in 108 LaFortune ) 
., 
Available for purchase by grad students, staff and faculty: 
LaFortune Information Desk $29.00 (Cash, check or credit card) 
For more information, 
e-mail Dome@)nd.edu 
Thank you, and enjoy yout yearbook 

page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Tuesday, Aprill9, 2005 




NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Doherty to take over FAU 
Associated Press 
BOCA RATON, Fla. -Matt Doherty's relationship with Florida Atlantic began a cou­ple weeks ago, whBn he called to recommend Rex Walters to fill the school's vacant men's basketball coaching job. 
They ignored his advice. 

The Owls wanted Doherty ­and the former North Carolina and Notre Dame coach decided it was time to return to work. 
Doherty was hired Monday as Florida Atlantic's coach, starting mom than two years aft1~r he resigned from North Carolina. Doherty, a former national coach of the year, replaces Sidney Green, who was fired last month after three consecutive losing sea­sons, including a 10-17 mark this year. 
"At every place there's dif­ferent problems, different issues," Doherty said. "And I thought, 'I low cool would it be to come here and build this program?' 
"I was going to say brick by brick, but I don't think as a basketball coach that's a good term to use, so piece by piece, swish by swish. How cool would that be?" 
After seven seasons as an assistant at Kansas under cur­rent Tar Heels coach Hoy Williams, Doherty went to Notre Dame for the 1999-00 season, going 22-15. 
Doherty agreed to a seven­year contract that pays him a base salary of $171,000 annu­ally; he could also earn bonus­es based on ticket sales, and he'll profit from summer camps and endorsements. Doherty will pay FAU $200,000 if he leaves after one season, $100,000 after two, and pro­gressively less each following year. 
"He's a coach. He wants to coach. He's not going to go to a place where he doesn't feel he can be successful," said Walters, the former Kansas standout who'll leave his assis­tant job at Valparaiso to join Doherty's staff. "He believes and I believe this can be a pro­gram to be reckoned with. We can win here." 
Sea ofGREEN! Wear green to support the Irish! 
llistory suggests that will be tough at FAU, which will play one more season in the mid­major Atlantic Sun Conference before joining the Sun Belt for the 2006-07 campaign. 
The 2004-05 team played seven home games before fewer than 500 fans. In 12 sea­sons in Division I, the Owls are a combined 102-234, with only two winning seasons and one trip to the NCAA tournament. 
"It wasn't about money. It wasn't about level," Doherty said. "If you have a passion for coaching basketball, you'll coach in front of 20,000 people or 2,000 people." 
His new players are excited. 
"He's a big name and clearly a great coach. And I think he brings our dream a lot closer," said guard Tywain McTyer, who'll be a sophomore next season. 
In the 2000-01 season, 

Attention Students! SUMMER WORK 
• 
Excellent Pay 

• 
Flexible schedules 

• 
Customer sales/service 

• 
No exp. needed-will train 

• 
Immediate Openings 

• 
All ages 17+ 

• 
Conditions apply 


Apply Now, Start After Finals! 
CALL 273-4878 
Doherty's first Carolina team went 26-7, was ranked No. 1 in the country late in the year and won a share of the ACC's regular-season title. He was named The Associated Press' coach of the year. 
But he missBd the NCAA tournament in each of his final two seasons in Chapel Hill, and resigned under pressure in April 2003. Many of the play­ers he recruited to Chapel Hill 
including Sean May, Raymond Felton and Rashad McCants -helped lead the Tar Heels to this year's nation­al championship. 
"I joke, saying I got to buy the groceries and start the meal, but I didn't get to enjoy it," Doherty said. "So that was a little frustrating, but I was very proud of what they accomplished and felt a part of it. And as a result, got some credit for it too." 
RUNNING 

N dereba victorious in 2005 Boston Marathon 
'Catherine the Great' becomes a four-time winner in the event 
Associated Press 
BOSTON -Twenty-five years after Rosie Huiz came out of nowhere to "win" the Boston Marathon, Catherine Ndereba staged a rally almost as improbable. 
Trailing by four football fields at the halfway point, the Kenyan known as "Catherine the Great" caught Elfenesh Alemu to win an unprecedent­ed fourth women's title Monday, finishing in two hours, 25 minutes, 13 seconds. 
Ethiopia's llailu Negussie covered the 26.2-mile course from Hopkinton to Boston's Back Bay in a heat-slowed 
2:11:45 for the men's title, earning $100,000 and break­ing Kenya's stranglehold on the event. Alan Culpepper gave the 
U.S. something to celebrate, placing fourth in the best finish for an American since Dave Gordon was fourth in 1987. 
Ndereba made sure the Kenyans weren't shut out. 
"In Kenya we all celebrate as a group, so when someone wins we all celebrate," said Benson Cherono, who was third in the men's race behind Negussie and Kenyan Wilson Onsare. "I gave my congratula­tions to her for winning. I thank God for what she did." 
Ruiz became one of the most notorious cheaters in sports history when she was declared the winner of the 1980 Boston Marathon despite running only about a mile. The real winner, Jacqueline Gareau, was brought back on Monday to elaim some of her usurped spoils. 
Ndereba didn't need any trickery to beat Alemu for the second consecutive year. Last year's 16-second gap tied the closest in the history of the women's race, but Ndereba won this year by 1:50. 
"It is more than a thrill," Ndereba said. "I felt like my legs were kind of heavy when we started. As I kept on push­ing the pace, I felt like my body was moving and I felt like, 'Wow! I can do it."' 
Alemu was in the lead pack from the firth mile in Framingham, pulling away at Wellesley College to open an 80-second lead at the 13.1­mile mark. Ndereba pulled even with the Ethiopian at the crest of Heartbreak llill, about two hours into the race. 
They ran side-by-side past Boston College onto Beacon Street before Alemu fell back at Cleveland Circle in Brookline. 
Alemu has finished second two times in a row. In 2002, her only other Boston appear­ance, she finished third to Ndereba's second. 
"I am not disappointed because there is winning, and there is not winning," Alemu said. "It happens. I am not worried about that." 
Kenyans had won 13 of the previous 14 men's races, but this year they'll have to settle for Ndereba's victory. 


support the Irish! 
Sea ofGREEN! Wear green to 

Tickets $3 for students! Call 235-9988 

~--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·~------~------------~---------. 
Tuesday, April 19, 2005 
Kapala 
continued from page 24 
against Conrwetieut, loading his team to a 3-2 victory. lie pitehnd tho ganw of his caronr in turning in a mmplnto-game, two-run por­formaiH:o in tho night-inning dunl and narning -lilting as it may SIHHn -his second win of the snason. 
"I was just so proud of Kapala," Maininri said. "Ill just thought he pitdwd so couragnously." 
.Junior ldty Tom Thornton was not to lw outdone. So, Thornton dolivnrnd ynt another completn ganw for the Irish -his socond. in u row -in thn latn game Saturday afternoon against the lluskies in a milestone game for mach Maininri. The Irish won 7­
I. For tho first time since ((oilman and toammate Danny Tamayo completed the feat in 2001. two Irish starters com­bined for complete games in a Big East doubleheader. 
Mainieri got his 800th career victory. On the landmark day, all the ever-humble coach could do was praise his players. 
"!Thornton I. what can you say, he's bonn our leader all year on the mound. lie did a tremendous job ((Jr us. 
"It ha.•> nothing to do with me," Mainieri addod. "It's all about the kids -thorn playing the game. I haven't won one game in my earner. Bnlicvc me, I haven't hit one ball or thrown one ball or fielded one ball or scored one run." 
Thornton improved to 4-4 on the year. In his last start, he pitched a complete game in his homn state of Massachusetts against Boston College. 
!loading into the final game of the series, the Irish had used only 
The Observer + SPORTS 

two pitchers due to the nearly flawless outings of Kapala and Thornton. 
Sophomore Jeff Manship appeamd poisnd for another solid start but was nailed on the hand by a comebacker in the first inning of the Sunday game. lie lel't the game, and Mainieri said he would be examined and his pitching status would be day-to­day. 
Luckily, the Irish could turn to sophomore Jell' Samardzija. 
Samardzija picked up his lifth win of the season in a gutsy per­formance, improving his mark to 5-0. lie pitchnd 6.1 innings and faced 25 batters -a day after enduring an exhausting football praetiee. 
"The guy goes through a hrruel­ing football scrimmage yesterday and then comes over here and competes his rear end oil' for six and a third innings," Mainieri said. "That's just a tremendous athlete. fHel gave us a chance to win the game." 
With the starters and middle relievers shaping up, pro-season and 2004 All-American closer junior Ryan Doherty did his job as well. 
Doherty entered the game in the eighth and retired all four battnrs he faced through the ninth, earning his fifth save of the season. The Irish won 9-7 to sweep the lluskies. 
After the series sweep, there was a certain buzz in the Irish clubhouse. The Irish had just jumped two spots in the Big East standings -from fifth to third place -sitting only one and a half games behind conf'nrence leader St. John's. 
"We won three big games this weeknnd; we put oursnlves right back in the hunt for this thing Ithe Big East title]," Mainieri said. 
The buzz was not only the sound of an excited, victorious 
page 21 

team, but also the replay of the zip of a 90 mph Ryan Doherty fastball, the break of a slicing Tom Thornton curveball, the hum of a Dan Kapala hnater or the precision of a Jell' Samardzija payoff pitch resonating through the dubhouse. 
The hitting has bngun to hit stride, and thn pitching isn't far bnhind. 
"We can talk about the disad­vantage of being in thn north and going south, but for some guys it takes a half a snason or more before they can lind thnir timing or their groove," fvtainieri said. "You've got to play games." 
Against Connm:ticut, thn early­season struggll~s vanislwd for the Irish pitching stall'-whose ulti­mate test might come latnr this wenk with five straight games Wednesday through Sunday. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
SMC SoFTBALL 

Belles to face MIAA foe Calvin Knights before tourney 
Team needs a big win to help salvage season 
By PATRICK McCABE 
Sport.' Wrircr 
Ilown hut not despondent after thrne eonsecutive losses, the 4-8 I 1-:l) Belles travnl to Grand Hapids, Mich., to play the 7-4 (2­
1) Calvin KnighL-; in an attmnpt to salvagP tlw Saint Mary's season. A dutch win would prime the team for a conference tournament charw~ and holster ib spirit-;. 
"This match is rnally crucial," (:o-eaptain Kristen Palombo said. "We rwml some good singles wins, nsJwdally after losing three straight to tough opponents. We want to attain at least the fourth seed in the conference to secure a f'irst-round bye in the trJUrna­ment." 
Coach Dee Stevenson reaf­firmed the team's goals. 
"This match determines whether wn finish in the top or bottom half of the eonlcnmee. If we win, we mn complete the sea­son ovnr .500," Stevenson said. 
Under Coach Jerry Bergsma, Calvin amassed a 6-1 eonli.mmce record 114-4 overall) in 2004 and has tnnaeiously but capriciously contended with the perennial confnrencn nlite. No. 1 singles playnr Amy Zeilstra (12-6 last ynar) and No. 2 Haehnl Pater (13­H last year) spear the Knights' ehaotie onslaught. 
"They carne out of nowhere last year," Palombo said. "It was so weird. They beat us and Albion last year, but didn't do anything in the tourn.ament. We're still pre­pared for a tough mateh. They're an on-and-ofrteam." 

Stevenson eehoed Palombo's thought. 
"They beat us on our home court last season in the final rogu­lar-season game and throw the eonfercneo into a thrne-way tie for f'irst !with Albion and the Bollosl," Stevenson said. "But they did have a tough tourney." 
Stevenson feels that his tnam did not play for rnvenge. 
"Most or our players are new and didn't expnrience the loss," Stnvenson said. 
But Palombo, one of the few retumees from last year's squad, 
Tabe your success to the next level 
You've worked hard to succeed in college, and you expect more success as you take the next step-your bachelor's degree. 
Saint Mat)"s understands the unique needs of transfer students. We're offering a program especially for students considering the next step in their college education-an event designed and hosted by students and alumnae who transferred to Saint Mary's. 
join us on Tuesday, April19 for an evening featuring 
•Campus 
tours 


•Dinner 
in the new Student Center 

•
A personal welcome from President Carol Ann Mooney 

•Answers 
from: -Students and alumnae who transferred to Saint Mary's -Admission counselors -Academic advisors -Financial aid counselors 


-tit­

SAINT 
MARY'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
WWW.S~IIll mOI'}'~.Cdtl 


remembers vividly and now senks vengeance, but emphasizes the boost a win would provide. 
"Oh yeah, it's a revenge match. But this is a confidence mateh, too -it's tough when you lose throe straight matches," Palombo said. "We've played an unusually stacked schedule, facing the toughest teams consecutively. We'll compete against the easior teams next wnek." 
Palombo revealed the team's mentality to propnl a push to the postseason. 
"We're feeling okay. We're not bouncing around, but evnryday is a new day and each match is a new one," Palombo said. "We arn reminding ourselves, 'Wn can dcfmitely conu1 from behind and do this.' We haven't ruled any­thing out." 
"Our tnam's morale is prntty good. It's bonn a tough year due to graduation and injury. We'n1 somewhat disappointnd and wished we eould havo donn bnt­tnr," Stnvnnson said. "Ninety pnr­cnnt or points are lost on some­onn's errors, not an opporwnt's winners. If Calvin plays woll tomorrow, we will have a tough day. Thoir entim squad !'rom last yoar returns, so we have to play our host." 
Jlowever, Stevenson also acknowledged Calvin's explosive, arbitrary play. 
"If they don't play at their best ... it's hard to say what. to nxpod." 
Contact Patrick McCabe at pmccabe 1 @nd.cdu 
Cas-tle Po~nc Apanmencs 
180I I Cleveland Rd 
South Bend, In 46637 
***$99.00 for the 1st months rent 
w/ a 14 mo. lease plus your choice 
a microwave oven, DVD player or a Spot Cleaner for carpet*** All regular 1 bedroom apts. ~549.00 mo. Two bedrooms start at $715.00 mo. Two bedroom, den & loft ~925.00 mo. 
High Speed Wireless Internet Computer Center w/ high speed internet Gated Community • Free Tanning Close to Notre Dame • Racquet and Handball Courts Relaxing Jacuzzi and Sauna New Fitness Center • Beach Volleyball Sparkling Heated Pool • Use of Indoor Heated Pool ShortTerm Fully Furnished 1 & 2 Bedroom Suites 
Open 7 Days a Week www.cppj.com Call NOW 574-272-8110 
-
-· .. 
Tuesday, April 19, 2005 ·
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
recruiting -the chance that he would play just one year for us," Brey said in a statement. continued from page 24 "Given the fact that he has graduated and we have a lot of practices during his redshirt younger big guys we want to season. develop, we are moving for­
Former Irish coach Digger ward with the decision Dennis Phelps even repeatedly said and I have made together. Latimore was "I am very the best player 'Tve enjoyed the past proud of how 
on the team last two years that I have Dennis repre­season. h 7\r sented us aca­
LatiiDore 

Hut Irish coach spent ere at 1votre demically and Mike Brey said Dame both as a student athletically." Monday the pos-and an athlete." Latimore said 
sibility of in the statement Latimore wear­that he plans to ing an Irish uni­Dennis Latimore pursue a profes­form for only power forward sional career one season was-next year either n't something that just came up in the United States or abroad. recently. · 
"This was actually discussed Contact Matt Lozar at on the front end of Dennis' mlozar@nd.edu 

GEOFF MATTESON/The Observer 
Dennis Latimore, right, defends Boston College's Jared Dudley dur­
ing Notre Dame's 6~5 victory over the Eagles Feb. 8. Latimore 
will not return to the team next season. 
-
DePaul 
continued from page 24 

Gumpf took over and would become the second longest in school history if Notre Dame could take both games of the doubleheader. 
"Wins like the ones we've been getting are always help­ful," Gumpf said."The girls have a lot of confidence, which we need. They feel like they can come from behind and win when the going gets tough, and that's very impor­tant for this team." 
Notre Dame will be led by its dominant starting pitching, featuring senior Steffany Stenglein. 
Stenglein was named the Hig East Pitcher of the Week on Monday after striking out 36 batters in 19.2 innings last week on her way to recording four victories and two com­plete-game shutouts. 
Stenglein's dominant week lowered her ERA to 1.29, and she has now compiled 177 strikeouts in 113.2 innings, a rate of almost 11 strikeouts per game. 
Along with junior Heather Booth, the Irish pitching has been practically unhittable as of late. 
"Steffany and Heather have gotten better and better as the season has progressed," Gumpf said. 
"They're both pitching very well; they just need to stay solid and always keep us in the ballgame." 
With the pitching carrying the Irish, the offense has not produced spectacular stats, but plenty of clutch hits the season, making it all the throughout the course of the more important to close out win streak. their last road trip of the sea­
"I don't think son strongly. we've hit phe­"Wins like the ones "We're a confi­
nomenal[lyi," we've been getting dent team right 
Gumpf said. "Our now," Gumpf
are always helpful. 
numbers aren't said. "This year incredible, but The girls have a lot we're winning we're taking care of confidence." the tough games. of business. It says a lot We're doing about the char­
Deanna Gumpf
enough to make acter of the sure we're win­Irish coach team, and they're 
ning, and in the  going  to  need  
big picture, that's what we  that  coming  down  the  
have·to do."  stretch."  
After today's doubleheader,  
Notre Dame plays 12 consec­ Contact Ryan Duffy  at  
utive home games to close out  rduffy@nd.edu  


ELIZABETH VRANISH/The Observer First baseman Meagan Ruthrauff tags out a Western Michigan baserunner on March 24. 

Saturday 4/16 

fisher regatta 11 am holy cross hill howard duck hunt 5pm Coleman-Morse knott on the knoll 4pm sub movie oceans 12 4:30pm 7pm DeBartolo 101 
Sunday4j17 

free laundry 11am-6pm IaFortune laundry center closing mass for father malloy 9pm joyce center followed by celebration 10:30pm 
Monday4/18 

panera delivery to classes tye-dye t-shirt 11 :30am east south quad speaker ken jennings 7:30pm DeBartolo 101 
Tuesday 4/19 

panera delivery to classes big wheel racing 11 :OOam north entrance dbrt quarter dog eating contest 12am IaFortune 
Wednesday 4/20 
big red chair &mini golf 2pm east south quad 
'''" 
.,.

B~ 'lfOWt q.~Thursday 4/21 ....aptdif6-aptdi:l.4 
carnival 3pm south quad and west quad comedian jim gaffigan 8pm legends best of acoustiCafe 1Opm legends sub movie finding neverland 1Opm DeBartolo 101 
Friday4/22 
recess noon west quad trees unveiling of ~~the shirt" noon hammes notre dame bookstore battle of the bands 6pm legends sub movie finding neverland 8pm and !0:30pm DeBartolo 101 
Saturday 4/23 
AnTostal concert 9pm legends sub movie finding neverland 4:30pm and 7pm DeBartolo 101 
Sunday4j24 
cubs trip (tickets sold out) 



alJ ~cvre ~CM4$3 
punt pass &kick qualifying contest 2pm fieldhouse mall 
~to. ifO'U ~the~~ kcvui!
late night grille 8pm north quad drive-in movie billy madison 9pm north quad 
~.d.edu 
Tuesday, April 19, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
ALL YOU DID THIS QUARTER IS DESIGN ONE MICROCHIP. 

PEANUTS 
IN COMPARISON, I FOUND THE TIME TO ATTEND DOZENS OF MEETINGS. 
NOW DO YOU SEE WHAT IT TAKES SADLY,TO BE A YES.
MANAGER? 

CHARLES SCHULZ 

SCOTT ADAMS 
---_--.:==-=-=-=--=--=------=-=..:.:..=::===-=-=­
-~-==~-======================-==================-=========-=--===================== 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Really enjoyed 59 Puts into play 1 Actor Damon 32 Democratic 60 "Our Gang" dog honcho Howard 
5 Great buy, 61 Mower maker slangily 33 Roadside sign 
62 Document 1 o Go yachting 36 Marathoner content Frank with 
63 Dorm14 Met solo candy? 

annoyance15 Inventor Nikola 40 Layer? 

64 Cashless deal 

16 Ides of March 
41 Richly adorn utterance 
42 Easy mark DOWN11 Timid creature 43 Nutty as a 1 "Spy vs. Spy"18 Big name in fruitcake magazinechips 45 Motor City 2 "You here"

19 "Hud" Oscar hoopster winner 3 Gets soused 
46 Mel Ott, notably 
4 Pucker­20 Actor Ben with 

48 Several eras 
producingthe gang? 
49 Unlock, 5 Metro entrances23 -mo poetically 6 Potato sack wt., 

25 Cornhusker 
50 Novelist Evan 
maybeState: Abbr. 
with a small 
7 Renaissance 26 Like good soil smooch? 

family name
54 Man Friday, e.g.

27 Chops to bits a K.C. Royal, e.g.
55 Publicist's29 Best Actress 9 Space cadet's concernwinner for place

"Million Dollar 56 Workbook 10 Author/illustrator
Baby" segment Maurice 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 11 First-stringers 12 Europe's "boot" 
13 Quiet time 
21 Like a stumblebum 
22 _compos
mentis 23 Not just a success 
24 Like a ballerina 28 Despicable sort 
29 Serta competitor 
accessory 
32 Icicle former 

THE OBSERVER 

WILLSHORTZ 

33 Become familiar 43 Up-to-the-minute 48 Landscaper's with tool 44 White Monopoly
34 Fabulous author 50 monde
bill 35 "Funny Girl" 51 "You said it!" 45 "I yam what I 
composer Jule 
52 Defense grp. 

yam" speaker 37 Voyages in 53 Roster removals vain? 46 False front 
57 Lyrical 38 Place for a title Gershwin
47 Encyclopedia 39 Used to be volume 58 Blouse, e.g. 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today ttl receive The Observer in your horne. 

JUMBLE 

JJ~'flill&ffi 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
GOUGH j
rJ r 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 

~~·f~fl I J 
tPINKAD 
I J I I 
www.jumble.com 
ISTEWEN t 

I rJ I J 
Answer: 

"r I I I I J" ( I I I JIT 
Yesterday's I Jumbles:  OLDER  TWEAK  (Answers tomorrow) FAMISH EFFORT  
Answer:  Why the door-to-door salesman was  
spurned-HE "ASKED" FOR IT  .  

HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
EUGENIA LAST


HOROSCOPE 

CELIWRITIES HOlm ON TIHS DAY: Melissa Joan Harl, 29; Maria Bello, 3H; James Woods, 5M; Hayley Mills, 59 
Happy Uirthday: Don't take the easy route this year. Lei your inmginalion lead ihc way. Somclhing unique could lead to some money this year. Take control if you wanl favorable changes in your life. Someone from your past may lry to waltt hack into your life. Proceed wilh caution. Your numbers arc 3, X, 15, 22. 2!!, 35 
ARIES (Murch 21-April19): The more in tunc you arc wilh what you like and what ­you want, ihe further ahead you will he. This is a perfccl lime In set your goals high. Love will hlossom if you arc receptive to advances hcing made. ••••• TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Someone may disappoint you wilh his or her reactions today. Try not to show how you feel, hul file whal happened for future reference. A time will come when the very person who lei you down will need something in return. 
** 

GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): There appears to he annpportunity lo make a personal change. Your invnlvemcnt in an event or activity will bring you intcrcsling information. Travel should he with the intent of discovering somelhing new. •••• CANCER (June 21-July 22): Someone may nol he as convinced as you arc ahoul how to do things. Don't push your luck. Focus on your own concerns and whal you have to do to keep moving forward. Opposilion can he expected. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will find yourself jumping from one lhing to anolher, hul wilh all the energy you have today, you can accomplish twice us much as you expected. You may not he lucky in love today. Highlighted will he money and husincss. 
*** 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It's time for you to get serious about your life, your love and your future. A commitment can he made. and a decision to move forward will pul your mind at ease. Someone you work wilh may not he upfront with you. ••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take care of a minor health matter. Whether il involves a creative idea or making personal changes, this is the perfect time to proceed. Love is in a high cycle, so make your move. •••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): Be careful not to let your true feelings he known today. Someone may lead you on or intentionally give you false information. Keep a close watch over what everyone else is doing and act accordingly. •• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You've got it made in the shade, my friend, so don't skip a heat. Get moving on all the projects you've hcen dreaming about. You can make many good changes today if you are straightforward, aggressive and responsive. 
**** 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A relationship ihat you arc in may he holding you hack. Try not to get bogged down with someone else's responsibilities. A love inlercsl has !he potcnlial to blossom if you arc receptive. *** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Be honest ahoullhc way you feel and what you really want. The longer you keep trying to fool those around you, the harder it will he to go in the direction best for you. Stop fearing other people's reactions. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Being unpredictable may he your saving grace today. Hard work and an clement of surprise will capture the attcnlion of someone who can help you. A new direction will resuli in greater cn1husiasrn. *** 
Birthday Uaby: You arc inventive, unique and quick to respond. You have a buill­in sense of quality. You are ohservanl and intuitively know what will or won't work. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ _ Address ___________________________________ City _______________ State _______ Zip__________ 

THE 0HSERVER 

PORTS
Tuesday, April19, 2005 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Latimore opts to leave the Irish 
Notre Dame forward will forego his final year of athletic eligibility 
By MATT LOZAR Senior Staff Writer 

Dennis Latimore's an­nouncement came as much less of a surprise. 
Four days after junior Torin Francis made himself' eligible 

Draft, the senior Latimore announced Monday he won't be returning for the 2005-06 season at Notre Dame, electing not to use his final year of eligibil­ity. 
"I've enjoyed the past two years that I have spent here at Notre Dame both as a student and an athlete," Latimore said in a statement. "I am very grateful for the educational opportunity that I have experi­enced and feel that my degree has prepared me for my future both on and off the court. I am extremely appre­ciative of the support from the
-com~unity during my time here. 

At the basketball banquet on Wednesday night, Latimore won the Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley Rockne Student-Athlete Award given annually to the member of the men's basketball team with the highest grade point aver­age. Latimore will be graduat­ing in May with a degree in English and African-American studies. 
Humored to possibly not be returning for the past couple of weeks, Latimore trans­ferred to Notre Dame in June 2003 and sat out the 2003-04 season due to NCAA transfer rules. 
Latimore averaged 7.0 points and 4.3 rebounds last season when he played 20.6 minutes per game. He made 14 starts and appeared in all 29 games. 
Latimore spent his first two seasons at Arizona, where he played in 57 games, averaging 
2.4 points and 2.0 rebounds per game. 
The only season Latimore spent playing for the Irish could be classified as a disap­pointment after he gained a lot of hype as playing well in 
see LATIMORE/ page 22 


ND SOFTBALL 
Win streak on the line at Depaul 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer 
The last time the Irish lost, most of the student body was still recovering from St. Patrick's Day. 
After dismantling team after team on their way to 19 con­secutive wins since March 19, Notre Dame now faces its biggest challenge since the beginning of the season when the Irish take on DePaul (27­
12) in a doubleheader today in Chicago. 
"DePaul is a very good team and a huge regional rival," coach Deanna Gumpf said. "They're well-coached and the kind of team that just makes things happen. I don't expect this to be easy by any means. DePaul knows how to win." 
Fortunately, knowing how to win is something the Irish have shown a talent for recently as well. The 19-game win streak marks the second longest win streak since 
see DEPAUL/page 22 
BASEBALL 

No catch-22 for Irish aces 
Kapala fills the shoes of previous pitchers 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
For the Notre Dame baseball team, there's something special about the numbnr 22. 
By now, when opposing teams see the soon-to-be legendary digits embroidered across the chests of the Irish jerseys, they might as well call it a day ­nspedally if the player wearing the uniform is a pitchnr. 
From 1998 to 2001, four-time All-American and first-round draft pick Aaron Heilman donned the double two. IIe com­piled an astounding 425 strike­outs and racked up 43 wins and 12 saves in his four-year career with the Irish. 
Heilman -now with the New York Mets -thrnw a complete game, one-hit shutout Friday against the Florida Marlins. 
And from 2002 to 2004, All­American Grant Johnson also sported a "22" across his jersey. The Irish ace was a two-time All-American and a second round pick of the Chicago Cubs in 2004. Johnson went unde­feated in his junior season and ran up a team-leading 51 strike­outs. 


This year, it's up to sophomore Dan Kapala to continue the tra­dition of the number 22's pitch­ing dominance. 
"This year I was looking to assign number 22 to one of the freshmen, and Dan Kapala came to me and said, 'I want to wear number 22,"' coach Paul Mainieri said. "The last two guys that wore number 22 were No. 1 draft picks and All­Americans, and they both won a lot of games for us. 

"So, today when he [Kapalal showed up to the field, I said, 'Did you see what Heilman did last night -pitched a one-hit shutout.' I said, 'You want to wear that number 22, you better wear it with pride today, boy."' 
Kapala did just that Saturday in the opening game of a Big East conference doubleheader 
see KAPALA/page 21 

BooKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIV 
Quality Dining falls to Mean Girls in stunner 
Looking for a Sponsor at the Moment and Cocoa Butter win big 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
TherA's always an upset in the round of 64, but it's not always this big or this exciting. 
JJ Warren of Mean Girls spot­ted Eric Tark open under the basket and fired a crisp pass in his teammate's direction. Tark nailed the layup to complete the dramatic, 21-19 upset of sixth­ranked Quality Dining. 
"I think we knew we could win," Mean Girls captain Mike Ortiz said. "They are a grp,at team, though." 
Early on, Quality Dining looked to be in control. Big man Mark Levoir dominated the boards and scored almost at will on the inside. 
"He's a great player," Ortiz said. "We just tried to double down on him." 
But in the second half, Mean Girls created several turnovers on defense and started nailing shots from the outside. Quality Dining had trouble getting out on Mean Girls' perimeter play­flrs. 
"That one kid was just on firp,," Quality Dining captain 
D..J. Fitzpatrick said of Ortiz, who drained several key jumpers in thfl second half. 
With momentum shifting and an increasingly boisterous crowd on its side, Mean Girls seized control or the game down the stretch and pulled off the upset despite clutch free throw shooting from Fitzpatrick. 
"They were making shots, we weren't," Fitzpatrick said. "That stuff just happens in Bookstore." 
Mean Girls hopes to continue its Cinderella run through the tournament tomorrow in the round of 32. Fitzpatrick feels that the team has a great shot 
see MEAN/page 18 
.NCAA BASKETBAll

U) SMC SOFTBAll ~fl MI.B NO WOMEN'S TRACK~fl 
1.&.1

1-
Co) 
Former Packers line-

Boston bans the fanFormer Notre Dame 
The Irish return from :3 win against conference 
ESPN gets Monday
z Belles look for a big 
backer Sam Mills dies 
who hit Gary Sheffield
and North Carolina 

Night Football in 2006. 
Claifornia with Maryann coach Matt Doherty 
from intestinal cancer at 
during last week's game 
Erigha and others per-takes over at Florida 
Sunday Night games
c:s foe Calvin before MIAA age45. 
with the Yankees. 

will move to NBC. 
forming exceptionallytournament.
c:c 
Atlantic. 
well. 

page 16
page 19
page 20page 21 page 16 page 15 

-








