
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
College Readership pilot begins 

Senior Uz Doyle looks at a Chicago Tribune In South Dining Hall. The Tribune Is made available through College Readership. 
SENATE 
Group discusses ne-wspaper progratn, V-Day 
Members decide on changes to Executive Programming Board 
1\y AMANDA MICHAELS 
A"i\lall! News Editor 
Tlw Student Sonate eovernd issues ranging from V-Day prorlamations to eonstitu­ti o 11 a I am n n d nw 11 t s at Wodrwsday's nwoting so pro­dudivo that it olicitPd ados­ing round of' applauso from tlw so11ators tlH•msnlvos. 
Tracie Soxton of tho USA Today took to t.lw podium to givn an updatn on t.ho Col loge I!PadPrship Program's progr­I'SS so far and to answer any of tho SPIHttors' questions. 
SPxt.on rPportod tho frno copins of' USA Today, Chieago Triburw and Tlw N!~W York Times pla1:od in difforont 
locations across campus see SENATE/page 4 
Three publications offered on campus free of charge 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
Associate News Editor 
Student Government launched a free, one-month trial of the College Headership program Tuesday. The Now York Times, USA Today and tho Chicago Tribune will be made available to students each day in 14 locations on campus, including DeBartolo Hall, LaFortune Student Center, Coleman-Morse Center, O'Shaughnessy llall. Mendoza College of Business, the Library, both dining halls and certain residence halls. 
The program will be moni­tored during the next month, and surveys will be taken fol­lowing the complntion of tho program on March 4. A run­ning total of how many papnrs are picked up naeh day will be kept, said Carroll Sflnator Chris Harris, who was instru­mental in developing the pro­gram. 
"We are testing the populari­ty of each paper through sur­
see READERSHIP/page 6 
"won't stay in tho bins." 
Bocausn of tho high student rnsponsn, Sexton said tlwy aro already increasing the numbnr of newspapers dis­tributod, as tho current 1,200 are gone by narly al'tornoon. Thn f'reo four-week trial of the program, organized through the committee on Academic Affairs, will be used to gauge not only the Collngn Hnadership Prog­ram's popularity, but also the possiblo sizo of the budget if Notro Dame worn to accept the full servien. 
A proelamat.ion declaring Notro Dame a "rapn-frnn zonn~ and wokoming V-Day -a movonumt to stop vio­lenco against women -to campus was nnxt introduced by eommittoe on Gonder HoI ati on s e hair L izz·i Shappell, who yioldnd the l'loor to V-Day student organ-


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
QueerFihn Festival 
•


pren11eres 
Award-winning films by gay and lesbian artists to be shown 
By BETH ERICKSON 
News Writer 

The second annual Notre Damn ()ueor Film Fostival, which begins today and runs through S<tturday, will screen several award-winning films by gay and lesbian artists and host two pannls with acclaimed writers and diroetors. 
Unlike tho inaugural festival held last spring, which raised eyebrows and sparkod cam­pus-wide dobato, this year's festival has faced little opposi­tion. 
"Wo think that. a film festival is a good medium to bring t.lw entire community togotlwr. This type of festival -not just l'or gay and lesbian people to onjoy, but for students, alumni and members of tho communi­ty -is a way to bring in award-winning l'ilmmaknrs, diroetors, and writers," said Notre Dame graduate l.iam Dacey, din~etor of' operations and eo-fourulnr of tho festival as a senior film major last year. "And it.'s a good way to eroato tolnrancn and accnpt­anen of' all kinds of' 1wopk at Notrn Damn." 
Last ynar's f(~Stival SIHLWnPd many angry lnt.t.nr·s, both to Tho Obsnrvnr and to tlw f'nsli­val committnn itsl~lf'. Thus far, this ynar's f'nstival has not lwnn protest.nd. Daeny said. 
"I think that bncausn wn'vp done everything in such a posi­
see FESTIVAL/page 4 
FACULTY SENATE 
Hatch reflects on progress made during provost tenure 
By TERESA FRALISH 
Nt·w, Writt·r 
Univnrsity Provost Nathan Hatch, l'l't:l•nt.ly nanwd president. of' Wake Forest llnivPrsity. rPI'IoctPd on his tnnuro at Not.rn Damn at. Wed nnsday's Faculty S!•natP nwnting, while studnnt af'l'airs ('ommit.tnP mnmhl'rs roportnd lit.t.ln Jli'OgrPSS on tJw formation o(' a Wllllllitton to ovlH'Son rrnation of a now studnnt rolii'Sl' evaluation nwchanism. 
In his prnsnntation, llatrh out.linnd progn~ss on six major acadnmir. goals hn snt wlwn a ppointnd provost in I lJ<)(J, including improvnmnnts to graduatn study, acadl'mic programs and cnntnrs and innnasPd funding for !mginnering and thn sdmu·ns. 
Though thnsn dnvnloprnnnts ropresnnt­nd major stops l'orward !'or Notre Dame, llateh said hn strove throughout his tenure to maintain a balance between a!'.ademie quality and teaching oxeellenee. 
"I think wn're committnd to great rosearch and great teaching and not see­ing them as unrelated," Hatch said. 
In particular, !latch cited tho strength­ening of spneialized programs such as Irish studios and Latino studios and aca­dmnie centers like tho Kaneb Contnr. 
IIn also discussed largo inereasBs in undnrgraduato llnandal aid and its ability to bring top students to Notrn Damn as a major achievement. 
"That has tremendously helped our diversity -it's trnmondously helped our quality," Hatch said. 
The University has also made signifi­
see FACULTY/page 6 
' .. 

Faculty Senate members listen intently Wednesday as Nathan Hatch gives a presen­tation about his work as provost, including increasing undergraduate financial aid. 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, February 10, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Attend queer fihn festival 
Today is a truly special day, as it is the beginning of the Second Annual Notre Dame Queer Film Festival. For those of you who have not heard about the event, it was conceived of last year by a Richard 
Friedman

friend of mine, and then made a reality through a Photographer collaboration of the Gay and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dame and several academic departments. Last year's festival turned out to be a great success, bringing in gay alumni and the directors of the movies from all across the country, as well as draw­ing audience members from as far away as Chicago. 
After such a success last year, we figured we would have an easier time this year. However, the oppo­site has proven to be true. This year we have had to deal with posters being torn down by unknown people across campus. And, even more disturbing, despite having several academic depart­ments and the counseling center as sponsors, the Student Activities Office deemed this year's posters "unacceptable" and refused to allow posting or advertising in any area. Anyone who has seen the posters which feature a drawing of a lady's face along with the sched­ule of events will likely be just as puzzled as we were by this decision -especially because we were not given any reasons and were asked to leave the Student Activities Office when we tried to press the issue. 
To me, this type of experience is a very troubling one not only because it brings into question the inclu­siveness of this campus, but also because it hampers our ability to allow students to find out about a truly wonderful academic event. The festival was not intended to be a Gay Pride event or to push some sort of liberal social agenda, but rather designed with a large amount of time, discussion and fac­ulty input to be a very educational experience. This year's guests and panelists include renowned experts on GLB issues such as marriage and the history of the GLB rights movement as well as a Tony award­winning playwright. These are not the kinds of people that you get a chance to meet or hear speak every day. 
With such an opportunity avail­able to this campus, I would highly encourage everyone to try to make it to at least one of the events over the-three-day festival. This will not only send a message of solidarity to the gay and lesbian members of our campus community but also con­demn the actions of those have been trying to undermine this event. And hopefully you will also learn something in the process. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Richard Friedman at rfriedma@nd. edu 
CORRECTION 
Due ro a reponing error, ir was mistakenly reported in Wednesday's edition ofThe Observer rhar rickets were sold our for The Pasquerilla Easr Musical Company's musical "Grand Horel." Tickers are available ar rhe LaForrune box office. The show will be performed ronighr through Saturday ar Washington Hall. The Observer regrets rhe error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF UGG BOOTS? 





Patrick Knapp  Dan Rivas  Brian Hart  
sophomore Zahm  sophomore Stanford  senior Keenan  
'They're great for the bun run.  "Good for those South Bend winters."  "They're perfect."  



The Fort Worth-based carrier said Wednesday that pillows will be removed from most flights beginning next Tuesday in a cost-cutting move expect­ed to save another $370,000. 
"Almost all of our domes­tic aircraft have adjustable headrests, and we'll still provision blankets for lum­bar support, which is what the pillows were used for by customers a lot of times," American spokes­man Tim Wagner said Wednesday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Annie Pugel Alice Holohan Jeffrey Stephens 
sophomore junior sophomore Pasquerilla West Holy Cross Hall Keenan 
"They're 'They're "Is it me or do 
,,

fuggly. freakin' ugly -them Uggs especially with make girl's feet 
skirts." look like sheepskin rugs?" 


Sophomores Mike Ferkovic and P.J. Hoffman, bottom left, wait outside Gate 11 of the Joyce Center Tuesday before the Notre Dame men's basketball game. They and other students arrived nearly eight hours early for the game, which the Irish won 68-65. 
OFFBEAT IN BRIEF 

Notre Dame will present its second annual Queer Film Festival through Saturday. The event takes place all day in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts and is sponsored by the department of film, television and theatre. 
The class of 2008 is holding "Speed Dating" Thursday from 7 p.m. to 10 at Legends. 
Actors from the London Stage will stage a perform­ance of "Othello" Friday and Saturday nights at 7:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Center for the Peforming Arts. The event is sponsored by the department of film, television and theatre. 
Chicago Samba, a Midwest­based music ensemble that performs authentic Brazilian music, will perform at the Palais Royale on Friday from 8 p.m. until midnight. The event is free and open to the public. It is sponsored by the Kellogg Institute, Internatio­nal Student Services and Activities, International Study Programs, La Alaianza and WVPE 88.1 FM. 
Leocadie Mukaneza, a sur­vivor of war-torn Rwanda, will be speaking on Marian Apparitions and the Conflict in Rwanda on Sunday at 7 
p.m. in 116 DeBartolo Hall. Mukaneza has spoken with the visionaries, whose appari­tions have the support of the 
local  bishop.  The  talk  is  
sponsored by  Children  of  
Mary.  

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 44 LOW 34 


HIGH LOW 

Police say man signaled turns during chase 
KALISPELL, Mont. ­Deputies were taken aback during a chase involving a suspected burglar. He sig­naled his upcoming turns, Flathead County Sheriff's Sgt. Ernie Freebury said Tuesday. 
Deputies were going to a residence Monday night to arrest a man on a proba­tion violation and investi­gate some burglaries, Freebury said. A vehicle raced out of the driveway, nearly knocking down the deputies, and then struck a patrol car parked nearby to intercept him, he said. 
Freebury said the chase never exceeded 70 mph, and the driver even sig­naled his turns. 
Oliver Pearson, 28, was arrested and charged with probation violation, assaulting a police officer, eluding and having no insurance or driver's license. 
American Airlines getting rid of pillows 
FORT WORTH, Texas ­Perhaps this will soften the blow of American Airlines removing its pillows from most domestic flights next week: The blankets will still be there. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY a: 
LLI 
% 
!;( 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
c( (.) 



..... 0 HIGH 28 HIGH 19 HIGH 42 LOW 23 LOW 12 LOW 31 

HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 45 I 25 Boston 35 I 24 Chicago 31 I 24 Denver 53 I 31 Houston 61 I 42 Los Angeles 73 I 54 Minneapolis 29 I 18 New York 39 I 27 Philadelphia 40 I 27 Phoenix 73 I 59 Seattle 52 I 36 St. Louis 35 I 24 Tampa 66 I 39 Washington 42 I 27 
. . 
' 

Thursday, February I 0, 2005 
The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



ND faculty n1en1bers avvarded fellovvships 
By JULIE BENDER 
News Writer 
Thrtw U n ivnrsity of Notre 
l>arnn  faculty  members  
rnePived  National Endowment  
for  thn  llumanities  !NEill  

research fellowships for 2005, bringing Not1·n Damn's number of NEll l'nllowships in thn past six years up to 20 -more than any otlwr university in the nation. 
Susan Youens, professor of musie, rm~nived the fellowship for hnr resnarch projnct "lleinrieh llnine and Song." lan Kuijt, an associate prol'ns­sor of anthropology, rncnivnd a grant for his project "Early Villagn Sodal Organization and Food Production." Alyssa Cillnspie, assis­tant profnssor of during the past live years. 
"Notre Damn has been hiring the top scholars in the country for tlw past 15 to 20 years, and this is the primary reason thn faculty horn is tops in the nation for receiving grants," said Ken Gareia, associate direetor of the Institute for Scholarship in Liberal Arts. 
"Wn think [having three win­ners! this year is great. With 20 winners in the past six years, we're averaging about 
3.2 NEll fellowships per. year, and we'rn very pleased to have that," said Garcia, whoso office assists faculty in applying for extl)rnal grants by offering grant information, seminars, application assistance and pro­posal critiques. 
Younns is also not surprised that Notre Dame outpaces other 

Corman and "/ am thrilled to universities in fel­l!ussian lan-lowship grants.
receive my fourth
guagns and liter­"I think my col­aturn, rncnived NE11 fellowship. " leagues here are thn award for quite extraordi­her rnsearch nary," Youens
Susan Youens
titled "Dan-ger-said. "For grant
professor of music
ous Versos: organizations to 
Crime and Conseienee in tlw Worlds of Alnxandnr Pushkin." 
"I am thrillml to receive my fourth Nl\11 fnllowship," said Younns, who will b11 travelling to l·:ngland and (;ormany in the s ll Ill Ill IH t0 c 0 Ill pIe t(l the rnseareh both for lwr currnnt hook projnet on musiocal set­tings or pontry by llninrieh llninn nnd tlw rwxt book s/w is planning, entitlnd "Schubnrt's Unknown Po11ts." 
"Tho National Endowment for the llumanities enables scholars in many li1dds to havn tinw fron from otlwr profnsso­rial duties in ord«>r to eomplntn tlwir largn-scaln proj1~ets, and sl'holars nvnrywhorn, mysnlf includnd. are nnormously grateful to tlwm," Younns said. 
Notn~ llamo ranks among thn nation's top six major rnsnareh univnrsitins in thn numbnr of Arts and !.otters faculty who havn rocnivnd other fellow­ships. induding NEll follow­ships, for work in thn humani­tins, arts and soeial seinnens 
recognize that faet seems only natu­ral." 
Creatnd in 1965, NEll is an independent fnderal agency whose goal is to promotn excellnnen in humanities by providing grants for projects in four general arnas -preserv­ing and providing access to cultural resources, nducation, research and publie programs. 
Tho grants, which include a $40,000 stipend, ar11 typically · awarded to cultural institu­tions such as museums, archives, librarins, eollcgHs, universities, public television and radio stations as well as to individual scholars. 
Proposals arn nvaluated by a panni of nxperts outsidn of NEll and are then submitted to tlw National Council on the llumanitins. Tho council then makes recommendations to the NEll chairman, who has the final authority over which pro­posals receive the grant. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 

SMC to launch health catnpaign 
By APRIL THOMAS News Wrirer 
Saint Mary's Counseling and Career Development Center (CCDC) will be challenging unhnallhy body image nxpeeta­tions and nncouraging fitness and health through the throe-week "Get Heal! Celebrate S.II.A.P.E." campait-,'11. The campus communi­ty will be encouraged to fbeus on true health -particularly strength, confidence and nutri­tional wellbning -lrom Fnb. 1 to March4. 
"Women's S.H.A.P.E. refers to who we are on the inside," eeoc counselor Kris Pendley said. "Who wn arn is not the bodies we are housed in, but our spiritual giflc;, our heart and passions, our abilitins, our personality and our experiences." 
While Saint Mary's participation in ·"Get Real" is inspired by the "Awareness Week" established in 1987 by the National Eating Disorders Association, CCDC director Mary DePauw said the Center's body image sector is actively involved in promoting awareness about eating issuns. 
"We have done eating disorders education for at least 25 ynars," DePauw said. 
The increased visibility of body image issues during "Get Hnal" reminds studnnts that informa­tion, a listening ear and help are readily available -both now and throughout thn school year. 
"We have a numbnr of studenl<> come in and talk about their struggles," DePauw said. 
Depauw said consultation and discussion is hnr favorite part of the program. 
'"Our largnr culture tends to be unrealistic about women's body shapns and stylns. It's easy to Iosn perspective on what's healthy and what's not," DePauw said. "I always appreciate the opportunity to talk one-on-cmn with students with any kind of concerns." 
To ensure visibility, residnnee hall direetors were encouraged to promote "Get Heal" with dorm resident advi<>ors. 
"It's a good way fhr studenl<; to get the information right in their homes," said Nieole Clery, Holy Cross hall dirnctor. "Many HA's are taking a 'love your body, healthy-living' approach." 
"Get Real's" inli>rmational per­vasiveness intends to surround students with factual information and positive mnssages about body image and health, reaching them in everyday environments, like the dining hall, gym and resi­donees. 
"The 'Get Heal' material is aimed at sharing tho far.L<> about eating disorders as a means to edueatn tho public," Pendley said. "We want studenL<> to have real and accurate information about what is normal for womnn beeausn we gnnnrally do not sm~ normal womnn in advmtising." 
Supporters of thn program hope Saint Mary's studenl<> will takn to heart thn mns~age of "Get Heal." 
'"Whnn people mnet us, they are impressed by our intellect, our compassion, our ability to love and to be lovnd -not by the size of our jeans," Pendley said. 
Information about "Get Heal" will be spread by e-mail to all Collngn students and posted on signs in Angela Athletic Facility and in rosidencn hall bathrooms' "Stall News." 
CCDC plans to show tim movies "Slim llopes" and "Perfect Illusions" in Le Mans llall. endorse "Mirrorless Mondays," pass out food faet shents in thn Nobl11 Family Dining llall, hold an infbrmal h1mlth chat at Dalloways and provide free and confidential food and body imago sermmings March 3-4. 
Contact April Thomas at thom3549@saintmarys.edu 

Professor lectures on Judaisn1 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
Professor Elliot Bartky of the Program in Liberal Studies pre­sentnd a lncture on the "Social Ethics of Judaism" at the Hesburgh Center for lnternatiimal Studies Wndnnsday. This was the second in thn five­part "Comparative Hnligious Social Traditions" snries, spon­sored by the Program in Catholic Social Teaching and eo-spon­
sored  by  the  Joan  B. Kroc  
Institute  for  International  
Studies.  

Bartky began his lncture by explaining thern are no true Jewish social ethics, as the cen­tral idea of the religion is the Torah. 
"If we wish to spnak of the social ethics of Judaism, wn must presume that sodal ethics is a concept that transcnnds nvnry rnligion," he said. "Social ethies are not a Jewish idea." 
Discussing the possibility that Jews may develop a set of social ethics, Bartky cited the intnnu~­tion between Heform and Conservative rabbis and the nlli>rlc; by Orthodox Jows to ern­ate dialogue with membnrs of othnr religions. 
"Jews are increasingly rnady to contribute to interreligious dia­logue on social ethics, but they must dnvelop their own system of social ethics befi>re they can add something to the discussion," said Bartky. 
Bartky discussed the basis of Western thought in the philoso­phy of the Grnnks and in Jerusalem. 
"Ethics is a prelude to political science. The question of the grnatest human happiness can­not be divorced from thn ques­tion of thn greatnst r11gimn," Bartky said. 
Judaism and Greek philosophy both converge in their wtlun of the politieal. They are essentially politieal in a way that Christianity is not, Bartky said ..Judaism bnlievns thn law to be a product of rnvnlation, whilo c;rnok philos­ophy considers tho law to origi­nal!~ in human re<L<>on. 
"Within dassieal .Jewish tnxL<;, thorn an~ laws that can be loosely labnlnd sodal ethics. The rabbis teach us of thn eovnnant that God madn with Noah, in which tlw colors of the rainbow am a sym­bol for tho seven fundamental Jewish laws," Bartky said. "Those arn universal prindplns whieh can bn undnrstood by any pnrson with thn relL'>on that (~od gave them." 
The .lnwish mnphasis on laws is tlw blL'>is of their moral system, Bartky said. Jews have 613 eom­mandnwnts thny should follow. Though those an~ nxplieit eom­mandmenL'> to bn fi>llownd strict­ly, they are always lived with rna­son and respnd fix the prnvailing Jewish values, such lL'> the value for lith, Bartky said. 
"Th11 purpose of .Jnwish law is to make them a holy people. The Jews sen thnmselvos lL'> tho cho­sen people, but thnir purpose is to redeem tho world. The law's intent is to make thorn holy so that this rndemption ean hap­pen," said Bartky. 
Bartky advised the audinnco to takn their own individual bnliofs seriously, regardless of their reli­gious or atheistic orit-,rins. lie also noted that there is room for dia­logun botwmm tho faiths in the public and political arona, hn said. 
"Even though tho .Jews do not have an explicit set of social ethics, it is important to remnm­ber that historieally speaking, there is no possibility of social ethics without Judaism, bncausn social ethics arose from religion," Bartky said. 
Announcing the Year 



2005 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 
Thanks to a generous gilt from the Albert Ravnrino family. the Italian Studies Program is pleased to announce the year 2005 annual competition for truvel in support of summer research and foreign study in Italy. Granls will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000. and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergraduate students who are planning to pursue research or u formal program of summer study in Italy are invited to apply. Studenrs must have completed at least one year of Italian language. The cour:~e work will nonnally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian language. literature, and culture; and must be applicable to u student's degree program ut the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome. Boston University in Padua. UCLA in Pisa. Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in !he Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Student• are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
IJ  an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their  
degree program at Notre Dame  
2)  a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals  
3)  a description of the research project or the program they intend to follow  
4)  a budget indicating the costs involved  
5)  the names of two references.  

T I-1 A I RESTAURANT 
We are looking forward to creating a wonderful evening and a romantic experience for you and your special guest this Valentine's day. (Please make a reseiVation in advance if you plan to spend your romantic evening with us.) 
Lunch: Mon-Fri llam-2pm 
Dinner: Mon-Sat 5pm-9pm 
2ll N. Main Downtown South Bend 
232-444.5 
Application Deadline: Monday, t"ebrnary ll",lOOS Albert Ravarlno Italian Studks Travel S.:llolarsblp Program In Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University of Notn Dame 
Contact Karen Langley at klangley@nd.edu 

Thursday, February 10, 2005 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
become more accommodating for alternative lifestyles in
Festival 
Dame students with a legal alternative to pirating music for a cost of $6 per month. Ruckus offers not only music, but a group of 50 movies per month on a rotating basis and can be customized to allow lectures taped on campus to be downloaded. 
"If we had had this last year when Desmond Tutu was on campus, his speech could have been videotaped and put on the Web site," McHugh said. "i\ wider range of peo­ple would be able to see cam­pus speakers." 
The drawbacks to the pro­gram, besides its monthly cost, include the fee charged for every song downloaded from Huckus and burned onto a CD or transferred to an iPod and the 1 ,000-student user minimum for the service to be installed. 
In other Senate news: 

+ Judicial Council President Brin Anderson told senators to remind their constituents that voting in the runoff elec­tion for student body presi­dent -between the Dave Baran-Lizzi Shappell and James Leito-Jordan Bongi­ovanni tickets -will take place today from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 

How to Becmne a Bookstore Basketball Co1nmissioner 
1. Download 1he form at www .nd .edu,.._.b ks1r 
2. Return to 314 Lafortune by 3 PM, Friday, Feb. 18th 
3. Sign up for an interview outside 314 Lafortune 
Interviews will be held during 1he week of February 21-24 
Required to attend meetings and work 3-4 days per week during 1he tournament 

*Be pilrt ofthe World's GrMtestfind Lflrgest 
Outdoor 5 on 5 &sketbiiH 
Tournament 


superfluous," Dave Baron, chief executive assistant and


Senate 
continued from page 1 
tive way, we haven't had any protests," Dacey said. "We don't expect any this year either. I think it's just credit to the way we've gone about it." 
The festival has been well received by both students and faculty. 
"I've only heard positive things, and some of my profes­sors have encouraged us to go, to experience diverse things," said senior Erin Phillips. 
"I don't really understand the point of the festival other than that it is a themed series that explores a poorly-understood and highly-discriminated por­tion of our population," said senior Joanna Cornwell. "I don't understand why such a series would be so controver­sial. It appears they are just showing films." 
While homosexuality remains a touchy subject on campus, Dacey feels Notre Dame has recent years. 
"It's just little things on cam­pus that make you think we still have a long way to go," Dacey said. "But I think a lot of positive things have been done to make campus more accepting." . . The organizers also have high hopes for future festivals. 
"I think it will get better and better every year. This year, we have a better line-up in terms of films and speakers -we have a Tony-award winner, which isn't something you see every day at Notre Dame," Dacey said. "My hope is to keep lthe festival] going, to lay a foundation for an annual event, and it's a good way to bring in big names from the film world. They're coming basically for free because they believe in what we're doing, so if we do it the right way, it'll just get bet­ter and better." 
Contact Beth Erickson at 
eerickso@nd.edu 



continued from page 1 
izer Kaitlyn Redfield. 
"[The proclamation] is obvi­ously a symbolic measure, because we don't expect Notre Dame to become a rape-free zone just with this," Redfield said. "But as stu­dents, we need to take a stand on the issue of violence against women." 
The proclamation was unanimously passed. 
The committee on Oversight then brought two constitu­tional amendments to the table regarding the make-up of the Executive Policy Board and the Executive Programming Board. 
The first amendment was the addition of the student body president as a member of the Executive Policy Board, suggested by current student body president Adam Istvan. 
"It just makes sense for the student body president to be there at these meetings," Istvan said. "It's a natural adjustment to the constitu­tion." 
The second made several changes to the Executive Programming Board, includ­ing the removal of the Student Union Board manag­er and one of the two Hall President's Council co-chairs and the reduction of Board meetings to once every other week. 
"The director of program­ming from SUB is already on [the Board], so right now hav­ing the manager there too is chair of the Executive Programming Board, said. "Having the second in com­mand for SUB on there fits with the fact that it is com­posed mainly of vice presi­dents from the various coun­cils." 
Baron added the Board rec­ommended the amendment unanimously. 
Both amendments passed without opposition. 
A resolution regarding the presidential Anti-Sweatshop Task Force was introduced by the Committee on University Affairs. 
Currently, the student body president sits on the Task Foree, along with a collection of administrators, counsel and the University president. The resolution proposes the student body president nomi­nate a student to fill their position on the board for the duration of their term. 
"We recognize that the stu­dent body president already has many duties to fulfill, and that it makes more sense for someone more knowledgeable on the topic of human rights to attend the meetings," Katie Boyle, committee on University Affairs chair, said. 
Again, the resolution was passed unanimously and will now be pursued through the University administration. 
As the last item of business, Brendan McHugh of the Committee on Hesidenee Life spoke about his research into a file-sharing program called Ruckus Network. 
An alternative to Napster, Ruckus would provide Notre 
Center 

for Panos Antsaklis, Director 
Applied 260-262 Hurley Building
UNIVERSITY OF 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556-4618

NOTRE DAME 
Mathematics 
ANNOUNCEMENT 
2005-2006 GRADUATE STUDENT FELLOWSHIPS 
The Center for Applied Mathematics (CAM) is pleased to announce the annual Graduate Student Fellowship competition for the 2005-2006 academic year. Each fellowship provides a nine-month stipend and some travel funds for professional travel to technical meetings. Recipients will be designated as Graduate Fellows of the Center for Applied Mathematics. 
The Center's aim is to enhance interdisciplinary use and teaching of applied mathematics. Established in August of 1987, CAM fosters University-wide interaction and collaboration and provides support for students and faculty researchers applying mathematics in a variety of disciplines spanning engineering, physical and social sciences and business. CAM provides graduate student fellowships, as well as support for workshops, seminar series and faculty visitors in interdisciplinary research areas. 
The Center strongly encourages graduate interdisciplinary research in applied mathematics, particularly in areas where mathematics is used to address application needs in engineering, science and business. The goal of these fellowships is to financially support a small number of highly qualified graduate students. Priority will be given to those applicants with demonstrated interdisciplinary interest in applied mathematics. 
To apply for these fellowships for the academic year 2005-2006, a student must submit a proposal to the Center by February 25, 2005. The proposal must describe clearly and concisely in no more than 2 pages the student's research topic, its relevance to applied mathematics and its contribution to the present state-of-the-art in a particular discipline. The proposal should also contain the following: (i) A biographical sketch of the applicant and academic transcripts. (ii) A letter of recommendation from the student's faculty advisor. (iii) Any supporting documents such as additional letters of recommendation, graduate record examination, present and previous awards, etc. Current or former fellows may also apply for a fellowship. However, student fellowships for more than two years will not be granted. The proposals will be evaluated by a panel of faculty members associated with the Center. Final selection will be made by the Center's Executive Committee and will be announced in early April. The usual Graduate School rules regarding fellowships do apply. 
Please submit proposals by Friday, February 25, 2005 to: 
Center for Applied Mathematics CAM Graduate Fellowships Attn: Ms. Lisa Tranberg 260-262 Hurley Hall Phone: 631-8660 Email: Tranberg.1@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, Fc:bruary I 0, 200'5 COMPILED FROM TilE OBSERVER'S WfRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Floods ravage Venezuela killing 13 
I.A GUAIHA, Vonnzuola -llnlieoptnrs rns­cuml strandnd Vmwzunlans Wodnesday after llood watnrs struck tlw mountainous central coast. triggnring landslides, dnstroying homos and washing out roads. Oflkials said at least 
I:{ pPoph1 worn killnd and thousands of oth­Prs wnrn rorrnd from thnir homos. 
Tlw gowrnnwnt dodawd a stato of mner­gnrHT in thn capital or Caracas and six noarby statns as torrPntial rains causnd widnsprnad llooding Tunsday and Wndnosday. 
Swollnn rivPrs ran across roads along l.lw Caribbnan coast. stranding thousands in tlw sanw arna wlwrn llooding and mudslidns livn ynars ago killnd thousands. 
Israel to lift West Bank restrictions 
.I HIIUSAI.J·:M -lsranl has agrnnd to lift trawl n1stridions in parts of" tho Wost Bank in roming wnnks, l'alnstinian lnadnr Mahmoud Abbas said Wmlnnsday, in what would bn tho strongnst signal ynt to l'alostinians that a cnasn-lirn with Israel is bnginning to pay ofT. 
Is raP I ;il so said it w o u I d a II ow some l'alnsl.inian worknrs to nntor lsrad from Caza and tlw Wnst Bank to work. 
Abbas madn tlw announcomont al'tnr rdurning to tlw Wnst Bank from a Mideast summit in Hgypt, wlwre ho and lsranli Primo Ministnr Ariol Sharon dndared an ond to filllr ynars of" bloodslwd. l<'n111dom of traVI11 Would grpatJy illl proW tiW liVOS or l'alostinians, as tho roadblorks haw dodmatnd tlwir· ocono­my. 
Abbas said lsranl had assured him that trawl bans would soon bo oasml and sevnral major dwckpoints will bn rnmovnd as part of its military withdrawal from livo Palost.inian towns in tho coming wonks. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Scandals plague Chicago mayor 
CIIICA< ;o -Mayor llirhard Dalny has f'acnd down his sham of' scandals in I!i yoars running City I Jail. But a stwam of" roc:nnt indictments and nonstop nPws rPports of 1:orruption have Urn mayor on tlw dnfonsivo likn nnvor bnfiJrn. 
Although Dalny himsolf' has not boon aec:usnd or any wrongdoing, lw has taken snvnral stops in l.lw past wnnk to insulato himself". 
liP announrPd Tunsday that lw was ovnr­hauling a sr.andal-plagund trucking program. liP brought in two fiJrmnr fi~dnral prosncutors to root out corruption in a program that sots contracts asidP f(Jr womnn and minority-owrwd husirwssPs. Ami tw has barrnd eompanios with city contracts J'rorn donating to his campaign. 


Parents object to kids' radio tags 
SUTTI·:Il. Calif'. -Tlw only grado school in this rural town is n~quiring studnnts to wear radio f'rnqunrH:y identification hadgos that can trark tlwir nvory move. Sornn panmts am out­rag~•d, f'paring it will rob their childrnn of' priva­t:y. 
Tlw hadgos introdurnd at Brittan 1\lomontary School on .Jan. I H rl'ly on tho samo radio l'rn­qumrr.y and sc:amll'r tndmolo1-,ry that companios usn to tmrk livostork and prodw:t inwmtory. 
Whilo similar dovicos arn bning tnstod at sov­Pral schools in .Iapan so paronts can know wlwn t.lwir childron arrive and leavn, Brittan appPars to bt~ tlw first U.S. school distriet to mnhrarn sudr a nroniloring systnm. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Siblings charged with murder 
INDIANAI'OI.IS-A hrothnr and sister were drar-g~~d Wodnnsday with murdor liJr allegedly killing their mot.lwr and grandparnnts, bury­ing t.lwir bodies in a basnmmrl and heading oil' to Las Vogas with t.he victims' cash. 
Tlw siblings worn charged with throe eounts narh of' murdnr and conspiracy to commit murdnr and two counts of' robbery. Authorities rornovod tho dismembered bodies of' their mothnr and grandmother and the intaet body of their grandfather from under concrete in thn basnnwnt of the grandpanmts' home. 


Iraq election without results 
Recount necessary to eliminate discrepancies caused by ballot fraud and tampering 
Associated Press 
BAGIIDAD-Iraqi ol'f'i­cials said Wednesday they must recount votes from about 300 ballot boxes because of various discrnp­ancies, delaying f'inal results from the landmark national nleetions. llundreds -porhaps thou­sands-of other ballots were declared invalid because of al111ged tampor­ing. 
Postnlection violence mountnd, raising fears that the Jan. 30 balloting had done little to ease the eoun­try's grave security crisis. 
An American soldier was killed Wodnosday and anothnr wounded in an ambush north of tho capi­tal, tho U.S. military said. Two other American sol­diers died earlinr in tho week, the command said Wednesday. 
Gunmnn ambushed a convoy of Kurdish party oflkials in Baghdad, killing orw and wounding four. And in the southern eity or Basra, gunmen killed an Iraqi journalist working for a U.S.-funded TV station and his 3-ynar-old son as they left. their home. 

Of"l'idals had promised final results from the elec­tions by Thursday, tho end of tho Iraqi work week. On Wednesday, however, elec­ai-Sistani. The ticket of and whether they had come nach box should contain tion commission spokesman interim Prime Minister from the Mosul area, which about 500 ballots. It was Farid Ayar said the dead­Ayad Allawi. a socular has a mostly Sunni Arab undnar whntlwr tlw bags line would not be mot Shiite, was a distant third. population. Many Sunnis contained roughly tho samo because or tho recount. Allegations of voting aro believed to havn stayed numbnr of ballots. 
"We don't know wh@ this irregularities, ospocially home on eleetion day, nithnr Mnanwhilo, a W11stnrn will finish," he said. "This around the tense northern because they feared insur­lngal expert said invostiga­will lead to a little post­eity of Mosul, havo compli­gent reprisals or opposed a tivn judges worn rwa.rly ponement in announcing cated the count. Some lead­ballot as long as U.S. and rnady to hand over lmrgt.hy the results." ing Sunni Arab and othor l'oroign troops worn dossiers of' af'lidavits, wit­
No partial tallies havn Christian politidans alleged on Iraqi soil. ness statenwnts and othnr boon reloasod since Monday that thousands of tlwir sup­Commission ol'lidal Adel docunwnts to a five-judgn in tho eontosts for the 275-porters wore denied tho al-Lami said the ballots in panni that would run tlw momhor National Assembly, right to vote. 40 boxns and 250 bags trials f'or f'ormnr nwmbnrs 1 H provindal eouneils and a Election off'i!:ials blamed would not be eountod of' Saddam llussein's regional parliament ror the thr1 problems in the Mosul because they appeared to rnginw. Kurdish self-governing area on security, whieh pro­haVf1 been stul'l'ed insidn Tho nxp1~rt. who spoke on region in the north. vontod fewer than a third of them or, in some cases, condition of' anonymity, 
Tho most recent f'igures the planned :no polling improperly liJidod. Some of would not say whirh of' showed a coalition of centers from opening. the boxes were not those Saddam's II linutonant.s Kurdish parties in soeond Gunmen seized some ballot approved by tho commis­wm·o liknly to fitcn thn Iraqi place behind a Shiitl1-domi­boxns, ollicials said. sion, and others were Spneial Tribunal first, and it. nated tiekot endorsod by The commission would improporly snalod, ho said. was unellmr wlwn t.hn dir­Iraq's most revered Shiite not say how many ballots Before thn election, com­tator himsnlf' would stand dnrie, Grand Ayatollah Ali had been dnelared invalid mission of'lieials estimated trial. 

Bush asks for $400 million for allies 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON -Prnsident Bush is asking Congress to set up a $400 million fund to rnward nations that have taken political and economic risks to join U.S.-led coalitions in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
The White House announced the fuod, dubbed the "solidarity initia­tive," after Bush's meeting Wednesday with Aleksander Kwasniewski, the president of Poland, a nation that is to receive one-fourth of the money. 
The $400 million request is part of the $80 billion supplemental 
war funding request Bush will send to Congress next week. 
"Poland has been a fantastic ally beeause the president and the peoplo of Poland love freedom," Bush said during his Oval Offiee meeting with Kwasniewski, a staunch ally in the Iraq war. "I know the people of' your eountry must have been thrilled when the millions of people went to the polls" in Iraq. 
Poland has taken command of a multinational security foree in central Iraq that currently includes about 6,000 troops ­among them more than 2,400 
Polish soldiors. Kwasniowski told roportnrs outsidn t.lrn Whito llousn that a roduetion this month will leave Poland with I,700 troops in Iraq, but lw said tho 700 othnr troops would rnmain ready in Poland to bo imrnndiatnly doployod to Iraq if' needod. 
Administration ol'l'ieials dnclinnd to say which othor nations would bonofit from tho l'und, parUy designed to reward allins and eoax them to stay in tho U.S.-Iod eoali­tion in Iraq. Spain, Singapore, Nicaragua, New Znaland, Thailand, Philippines, Norway and Honduras have left the coalition. 
Thursday, February 10, 2005 

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
Readership 
continued from page 1 
veys and keeping track of how each paper sells over the four-week pilot period," Harris said. "Now we are merely gauging interest." 
Student government will be monitoring usage in coordina­tion with USA Today. 
"Unused papers will be col­lected by USA Today for recy­cling, and the daily usage data will allow us to create a full­time program that best suits Notre Dame," said Vijay Bamanan, chairman of the Academic Affairs committee. 
The idea to bring College Beadership, a national pro­gram currently offered at more than 300 college and university campuses, was ini­tially discussed last year by student body president Jeremy Lao. At the time, however, funding for a full-time pro­gram was not available, so the idea was put aside until this past fall, Bamanan said. 
Though the program has only been going on for two days, student response has been positive. 
"They all seem to be popu­lar, based on the face that the bins in the dining halls and other locations have emptied before midday," Hamanan said. "But, this is one of the purposes of doing a pilot pro­gram -to find out what stu­dents would most like to have access to, and it certainly doesn't have to be limited to the three papers currently available." 
Though no funding source has been decided yet, if the program is adopted, the news­papers available will remain free. 
"We have still compiled a number of different proposals for funding," Ramanan said. ''I'd estimate that we could offer a great program here for around $40,000." 

The cost of College Beadership varies depending on the size of the school and number of papers delivered. For example, Duke University has a $20,000 program funded by the student affairs depart­ment, Cornell University has a $65,000 program paid for by its student government and the University of Iowa has a $280,000 budget accumulated through a student fee of $5 per semester, Bamanan said. 
Funding for the Notre Dame program is still unknown largely because an accurate budget will be determined fol­lowing the pilot program. 
"Identifying funding for the program is ultimately a deci­sion that rests with the cur­rent and future student body president and vice president," Bamanan said. "Still, with what we can do before the end of our terms, Chris [Harris] and I look forward to ensuring that this worthwhile program becomes a permanent fixture of student life here." 
Student government is sup­portive of the program, and many members believe that College Beadership will have a positive effect on students. 
"On an individual level, easy access to esteemed newspa­pers establishes a habit of remaining well-informed throughout life," Ramanan said. "Further, exposure to detailed coverage of national and international news height­ens students' understanding of events occurring beyond our campus. As a result, students become more engaged in the classroom and more mature intellectually, spiritually and emotionally." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
Fac~lty 
continued from page 1 
cant progress toward inte­grating academics and Notre Dame's Catholic character, according to Hatch. 
"I do think, better than any university in this country, Notre Dame has been a center for Catholic intellectual engagement," he said. 
Hatch will depart Notre Dame on July 1 for the Wake Forest presidency. 
In the student affairs sub­committee, chair Jay Brandenberger said little progress had been made on the senate's December resolu­tion authorizing the formation of a student and faculty com­mittee to oversee creation of a 
new student course review process. "We've not gotten much response," he said. 
To date, only one faculty member, engineering profes­sor Al Miller, has stepped for­ward to join the committee. Brandenberger said he would continue searching for two additional faculty members, not necessarily from the sen­ate, to join the committee. Until this occurs, work on the course review proposal will remain stalled. 
First proposed by associate provost Dennis Jacobs, the ini­tiative calls for the University to create a new procedure, separate from teacher course evaluations, for students to assess classes and professors and provide that information to other students. 
In other Faculty Senate news: 
+ John Bobinson, academic affairs committee chair, announced the creation of a "trilateral committee" consist­ing of representatives from the Faculty Senate, Provost Advisory Committee and the Academic Council to oversee changes to the evaluation of teaching in tenure and promo­tion decisions. 
The impetus for such reforms came from a report presented to the senate by Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs in November. The sen­ate passed a resolution calling for the committee in November. 
Contact Teresa Fralish at tfralish@nd.edu 



Cunningham retires frotn CSC 
Special to the Observer 
Each fall, around about the time the Notre Dame band reassembles to take its first lap around campus, Sue Cunningham began to get a parade of her own. 
Students who had spent their summers engaged in the Center for Social Concerns' Summer Service Project (SSP) landed at Cunningham's office door to recount the trials of a summer spent trying to make the world a better place. 
As she had for 19 years, Cunningham, the program's director, listened intently, com­pared the stories to similar trials in years gone by, offered guid­ance on writing papers about the students' adventures and chortled at just about everything else. 
G-reat Food! 
Cunningham retired in December, having grown SSP from about 50 students in 1985 to almost 200 in 2004. Of 3,100 students who have been through the program, Cunningham worked with 2,833 of them. 
Although she didn't start the SSP, her name is synonymous with the program, having forged its academic component. She spearheaded the effort to ensure that students receive three cred­its for their SSP project and that the experience has a meaningful academic element. 
And while she can't take cred­it for starting the service pro­grams at alumni clubs around the country, her ebullience and indefatigable promotion has played a significant role in nur­turing SSP as a major initiative in at least 115 alumni clubs. 
"I cannot begin to explain the profound impact Sue has had on the center," said Bev. Bill Lies, C.S.C., executive director of the Center for Social Concerns. "Through her dedication and passion, she has helped us to deepen our commitment to serv­ice and learning, not only on campus, but throughout the country." 


The Summer Service Project was started in 1980 as an "experiential learning program" meant to encourage Notre Dame students to assist those in need while learning about the Catholic Church's response to social problems. The learning would come as students devel­oped a deeper, more nuanced understanding of social problem through service to such organi­zations as the Boys & Girls Club, Catholic Charities agencies or local homeless shelters. 


G-reat Futt! 


NO I St. Marv's Appreciation weekend Fridav &Saturdav, Februarv 11 &12 Buv Anv Beverage & 2nd one is aPennv 9:00 PM to 12:00 PM 
Michiana's Best OJ Shaun Kellv-All Weekend No Cover with StudentiD 
#1 Sports Jar itt South Jettd 2046 South Jettd Ave -Across frotM Martitts Plaza 272-1766 
~---­

THE OBSERVER 






USIN·ESS
Thursday, rebruary I 0, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,664.11 -60.52

jones 
Up: 1,146  Same: 166  Down: ~  Composite Volume: 1,509,607.424  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE s&P 500  I ,472.18 2,052.55 7.161. 9Y 1.1<)1.99  +3.2~ -34.13 -45.46 -I 0.31  

NIKKEI(Tokyo) II ,473.35 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,990.40 -5.1 () 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -3.34 -0.61 17.63 NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) -1.67 -0.63 37.1 I MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.65 -0.17 26.07 INTEL CP (INTq -0.47 -0.11 23.30 SIRIUS SATEWTE R(SIRI) + 1.01 +0.06 5.99 
30-YEAR BOND -0.61 -0.27 43.65 I0-YEAR NOTE Jl.49 -0.60 39.77 5-YEAR NOTE -2.75 -1.01 35.74 3-MONTH BILL +0.08 +0.02 24.67 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.06 45.46 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) +0.20 414.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.53 89.73 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 05.6 EURO 0.7807 POUND 0.5378 CANADIAN$ 1.248 
IN BRIEF 
Wal-Mart will close Canadian store 
NEW YOHK -W1tl-Mart Stores Inc. said 

Wndnnsday it will dose a Canadian store 
whosn worknrs are on the vergn of becoming 
tlw first nvnr to win a union contract from the 
world's biggest rntailnr. 
W<tl-Mart said it was shultering the store in .lonquinrn, <)unbnc, in responsn to unreason­able dmnands from union negotiators. that would make it impossible for the store to sus­tain its business. The Unitnd Food & Commnrdal Workers Canada last week asknd <)twbtH~ labor officials to appoint a mmliator, saying that negotiations had n~ached an iIll paSSil. 
"We wnrn hoping it wouldn't come to this," said Andrnw Pelletier, a spoknsman for Wai­Mart Canada. "Despite nine days of meetings over thnHl months. wn've been unable to rt1aeh Ill! agremnent with thn union that in our view will allow the store to operate efli­dnntly and profitably." 
1'11llntinr said the storn will dose in May. The r11tai ler had nrst discussed closing the .lonquinr11 store last October, saying that the store was losing monny. 
Superjumbo A380 just too big 
Sh\TTI.I•: -It's one thing to build a really, r11ally big airplane. But, it turns out, it's quite anotlwr to find a plaee for it to land. 
U.S. airports from Seattle to Atlanta say accommodating Airbus SAS's nnw superjumbo t\3HO in anything othnr than an emergency would rnquire major construction. Hunways would need widening and terminals would nnnd upgrades to load and unload the double­docker plane nasily. 
Evnn with those improvements, airports might need to curtail other airport traffic to let the big jet lumbnr through the airfield. And some of'lkials worry the weight of the A380 would collapse tunnels and buckle overpass­es. 
What's more, some airport officials say they just arnn't seeing the demand for the A380 that would warrant such cost and inconven­ience. 
"Let's do a cost/benefit analysis: Are you really going to spend millions of dollars (when) you might have two of them a day fly in'?" said aviation analyst Mike Boyd. 
HP CEO and chairman ousted 
After almost six years, board members force Carty Fiorina to leave compa11y 
Associated Press 

SAN FHt\NCISCO -Carty l;iorina's 1warly six-ynar rnign at llnwlntt-l'ackard Co. nndnd abruptly Wndnnsday as board nwm­lwrs l'oJ-cnd her out.. disap­pointPd by lwr inability to l.ransl'orm a plodding l.neh­nology giant dominated by printPr salns into a morn nimble innovator. 
liP's sl.ol'.k, whil'h has gone nowhere !'or two ynars and is down two­thirds !'rom its pnak in :woo. rosn almost 7 per­cent al'te1· narlinr soaring almost '11 percent on tho JWWS ol' hnr oustnr. 
Board memlwrs said tlwy lirml tlw chin!' nxecu­t.ive -pnrhaps corporatn t\nwriea's most inl'ltwntial woman -bnraustl Fiorina l'ailnd to slash costs and boost nwenun as quickly as directors had hopnd. 
"Whiln I rngrnt thn board and I have difl'erenccs about how to exncute liP's strategy, I rnspect their decision," said Fiorina, 50, who is nxpneted to collect a severancll package worth $21.1 million. 
Fiorina is best known for orchestrating the 2002 aequisition of Compaq Computnr Corp. -a $24.2 billion stock deal that rnquired her and Compaq boss Michael Capellas to precipitate a broad Robert P. Wayman as inter­ranging from printnrs and spend months wooing restrueturing and manage­im chief executive. They eomputer servers to tech­reluctant executives and ment shake up, possibly also named director nology consulting contracts shareholders. undoing many of the Patricia C. Dunn non-exec­with Fortune 500 compa­
The fiercest resistance changes she spearhead(~d. utive chairman. nies. Dunn said Fiorina's came from liP director "She brought about a Dunn, a board member !iring in no way rellnetnd a Walter llewlett, son of an major acquisition, that, since 1998, said change in dirndion of the liP co-founder. llewlett from the objective of those Wednesday that directors board's general roadmap argued that the deal would of us who look at corporate had been diseussing tht~ for tlw company. dilute printing prolils while restructuring, had chango for "quite somn "Looking forward, wn the company absorbed absolutely no merit," said time" based on consulta­think the job is very reliant Compaq's low-margin PC Dr. James Owers, professor tions with lawyers, venture on hands-on oxeeution, business. Employees also of finance at the Hobinson capitalists and academics. and we thought a nnw set soured on the deal, which College of Business at liP's board discussed of capabilities was called led to the elimination of Georgia State University shifting day-to-day respon­for," Dunn said. thousands of employees and an expert on corporate sibilities from Piorina to Ill' sharns rose $l.3h, or per quarter for more than reorganization. other executives in mid­h.8 percent. to $21.50 a a year. "Combining liP with January, and it's been share in afternoon trading 
Many analysts and Compaq appeared to be reviewing her performance on the Nnw York Stock shareholders remain skep­more an ego trip, not a for months, Dunn said. Exchange. Earlier in the tical that the biggest acqui­business deal. Many of us Directors said Fiorina, day they soared as high as sition in the computer are still saying, 'Where's whose salary and bonus $22.26, which still is only a industry was worthwhile. the rationale here?"' for 2003 totaled $3.5 mil­fraction of the 2000 split­Some business experts liP directors appointed lion, failed to evenly boost adjusted high of almost expect Piorina's ouster to chief finaneial officer prolits across all divisions, $70 a sharn. 

High Valentine's Day sales expected 
FedEx this week expects to carry with the holiday falling on a Monday,
Associated Press 

900,000 shipments of Valentine's Day we're focusing a lot of attention on the 
The war of the roses is on. gifts, including flowers, teddy bears weekend." 
An expected surge in Valentine's Day and chocolates. UPS said it expects to To handle the extra volume, FndEx is flower purchases this year is proving to move in excess of 20 million flowers adding more than 100 rnfrigeratnd be a boon for both South America alone. trucks and more than 50 nights this growers and major shipping compa­"While our total volume is roughly week. Spokeswoman Lourdes Pena nies. the same as last year, our peak day -said about 40 corporate employees 
Atlanta-based UPS Inc. and Monday -is going to be 30 percent have volunteered to help at the eompa­Memphis, Tenn.-based FedEx Corp. are higher than last year," said Jaek Muhs, ny's Miami distribution hub. bringing in extra workers and planes to FedEx's vice president of global net­At UPS, the company said that during handle all the flower shipments from work planning. the run-up to Valentine's Day, it dou­Colombia and Ecuador, where the bulk FedEx doesn't deliver on Sundays, so bles its number of flighl'i out of South of the roses sold in the United States that means more shipments of flowers America to handle the flower ship­are grown. this year will be made on Monday. Last ments. Hetailers place their orders with 
And demand is predicted to be high year, the holiday fell on a Saturday. growers in Ecuador, who then work with roughly 175 million roses pro­"Most of the husbands or sweet­with export cargo agents to get ship­duced for Monday's holiday, according hearts want to get the product there on pers like UPS to bring the flowers into to the Society of American Florists, Valentine's Day," he added. "This year, the United· States. 
Thursday, February 10, 2005 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS 
INDONESIA 
Strong quake sets off panic 
Associated Press 
BANDA ACEH -A strong earthquake struck Indonesia's tsunami-ravaged Aceh province Wednesday, shaking buildings as terrified resi­dents fled for higher ground in cars and on foot while police shouted "Tsunami! Tsunami!" 
Entire families jumped aboard nearby scooters and passing vehicles and sped off, snarling traffic on the main two-lane thoroughfare. Some headed to mosques, whose sturdy foundations and upper floors offered protection from the killer waves in the Dec. 26 disaster. Women screamed and sobbed. 
There were no immediate reports of injuries or damage. 
The 6.2-magnitude tremor struck about 8:30 p.m. and was centered beneath the Indian Ocean floor, about 65 miles southwest of the provin­cial capital of Banda Aceh, the Banda Aceh Geophysics Center said. 
The U.S. Geological Survey registered slightly different readings, estimating the quake's magnitude at 5.7 and its epicenter about 50 miles southwest of Banda Aceh. A magnitude-6 quake can cause widespread damage if it is centered in a densely populat­ed area. 
The shaking lasted less than five seconds and was felt across a wide swath of Aceh, on the northern tip of Sumatra island. Even before the tremors subsided, police officers and soldiers began shouting "Tsunami! Tsunami!" causing mayhem for about a half hour. 
Panicked residents evacuat­ed buildings and raced in cars and on foot for the highest ground. a hill on the outskirts of the city. 
At one mosque, where dozens of frightened residents had gathered, officials urged calm. 
"Do not panic. God willing, nothing serious has hap­pened," a voice said over the loudspeaker. 
Aftershocks have hit the region frequently since the December earthquake, which registered a magnitude of 9.0, and the following tsunami that killed more than 160,000 people in 11 In-dian Ocean nations. Most of the victims were in Aeeh province, closest to the epicenter. 
Also Wednesday. a powerful earthquake rocked the Pacific seabed near Vanuatu island. but thero were no immediate reports of damage. A Pacific warning n1~twork issued a bul­letin saying the 6. 7 -magnitude quake did not generate a tsunami. 
Although Vanuatu is on the same tectonic plate as Sumatra, the temblor was not eonnectod with the Dec. 26 quake, seismologists said. 
On Sri Lanka. Tamil Tiger rebels canceled a key meeting with international donors. -a move threatening reconstruc­tion efforts. 


Bush seeks support for Social Security plan 
GOP lawmakers look to president to garner public backing for proposed changes in system 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Senate leg­islation to overhaul Social Security depends on President Bush's ability to mobilize public support, an influential Republican committee chair­man said Wednesday. 
"I don't think we can move until there is opinion coming in here from Americans that we can't only be concerned about Grandma, we have to be con­cerned about grandkids," said Sen. Charles Grassley, chair­man of the Senate Finance Committee. 
The Iowa Republican made his comments as the White House and GOP leadership sought to reassure skittish Republican lawmakers about the president's plan and Democrats continued an 
attack-a-day strategy. 
Bush called last week for an ambitious overhaul of Social Security, legislation he said was needed to maintain the system for future generations. 
For workers under 55, Bush favors voluntary personal accounts financed by payroll taxes, and wants to reduce the Social Security benefits they have been promised for retire­ment. The system would remain unchanged for older Americans. 
House GOP leaders screened a brief White House-produced video for members of the rank­and-file during the day that showed Bush campaigning for his plan in five states. Aides said the intent was to demon­strate the president's commit­ment to the effort despite its political risks. 
Bush met at the White House on Tuesday with a small num­ber of GOP lawmakers, many of whom have expressed reserva­tions about his plans to change the politically sensitive pro­gram. 
One of those in attendance, Rep. Katherine Harris, H-Fla., quoted the president as saying he recognized the political diffi­culty involved in tackling such legislation. "He said this is hard... But he said it's not as hard as sending young men and women off to war," she said. 
Bush's proposal to use pay­roll taxes for personal accounts, and his recommen­dation to cut promised benefits for future retirees as a cost­saving device have emerged as particularly troublesome for Republicans, some of whom 
fear they may pay a price at the polls in 2006. Already, there are alterna­tives. 
Rep. Clay Shaw. H-Fla., a sen­ior member of the House Ways and Means Committee, said he intends to introduce legislation Thursday that calls for person­al accounts that differ signifi­cantly from Bush's proposal. 
Under Shaw's plan, the gov­ernment would give money to workers to invest in a personal account: up to 4 percent of pay, up to $1,000 per year. 
At retirement, individuals would have a choice: collect an income based on the amount accumulated in their personal account; or receive the tradi­tional benefit as promised under Social Security and give the money they invested pri­vately to the government. 

Concern spreads over drug given to troops 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -As a volun­teer firefighter, Georg­Andreas Pogany had seen dis­figured bodies pulled from wrecked cars. But something very different happened when the Army interrogator saw the mangled remains of an Iraqi soldier. 
He became panicked, disori­ented and that night reached for both his loaded pistol and rifle as he thought he saw the enemy bursting into his room. Pogany asked his superiors for help; the Army packed him home to face charges of cow­ardice -the first such case since Vietnam. 
None of it made sense to Pogany until he learned more about the white pills the Army gave him each week to pre­vent malaria. 
The drug's manufacturer warned of rare but severe side effects including paranoia and hallucinations. It became his defense: The pills made him snap. The Army dropped all charges, a spokesman later saying that Pogany "may have a medical problem that requires care and treatment." 
Pogany is among the current or former troops sent to Iraq who claim that Lariam, the commercial name for the anti­malarial drug mefloquine, provoked disturbing and dan­gerous behavior. The families of some troops blame the drug for the suicides of their loved ones. Though the evidence is largely anecdotal, their stories have raised alarm in Congress, and the Pentagon has stopped giving out a pill it probably never needed to give troops in Iraq in the first place. 
"What are we doing giving drugs that cause hallucina­tions, confusion, psychotic behavior to people that carry weapons and hold secret clearances?" asked Pogany, 33, who is now seeking a medical discharge. "It doesn't pass the common-sense test." 
The U.S. military, which developed the drug after the Vietnam War, won't say how many soldiers have com­plained about Lariam and won't detail how widely the drug was used in Iraq. 
The Pentagon maintains that Lariam is safe and effec­tive, though officials have expressed some concern and the military tells its pilots not to take Lariam. 
In written guidance on the drug last year, the military urged commanders to send for a medical evaluation any­one who showed behavioral changes after taking the drug, "especially ... if they carry a weapon" -a description of nearly all U.S. troops in Iraq. 
"Delay could put the service member or your unit at risk," the guide said. 
Lariam is among the drugs recommended by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for treatment and prevention of malaria, which kills about 1 million people worldwide each year. The drug's New Jersey-based manufacturer, Roche Pharmaceuticals, points out that more than 30 million people worldwide have used Lariam over 20 years. 

Thursday, February I 0, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Cosby lavvyer denies fondling allegations 
Conzedian accused ofalleged sexual assault 
Associated Press 
I' Ill LA I> 1·: LI' Ill A -Bill Cosby, under inVPstigation for possible snxual misconduct. dnnind <'laims hy a sncond woman that he drugged and fondled her. Tlw second accu­sation datns to :~o years ago, and a prosecutor suggested Wndrwsday such an old dairn likely wouldn't he rolnvant. in llw c:urrnnt c:aso. 
Tlw h7-yc~ar-old conwd ian's lawynr also blastod thn Philadelphia Daily News for printing thn accusations by Tamara (;rnnn, who was dnscrilwd by tho nnwspapnr Tuesday as a model-turnod­lawynr who worked for Cosby in California at tho time of thn alleged encounter. 
Tho report was published as. prosecutors rnullnd whothor to filo chargos against Cosby in tlw complaint by a former TtHnple Univnrsity employen. A doeision by Montgomnry County District Attorney Bruen 1.. Castor Jr. could come this 
W(H~k. 
Creon, 57, told the newspa­pM that Cosby gave her two pills at a rostaurant afh~r she fnlt ill. Sho said lw then drove her homo and trim! to undress and kiss her. 
(;roen, who allowed hor name to hn usnd, said she carne forward this week because her experience close­ly matdwd one allngnd by the fornwr Temple employee who wont to police last month to rnport· that Cosby had given her pills and fondled her at 
THE VATICAN 
Pope absent on Ash Wednesday 
promptly, failure t.o perform with eompotonef~. failure to maintain eliont funds in a trust aeeount, and failur(~ to rnf'und unearned fnns. 
Croon did not return tole­phone messages left Wednesday at a Ventura. Calif., number believed to be hnr horne. 
First Assistant District Attorney fOsa Vetri Ferman doelinnd Wednesday to com­ment on whether the invnsti­gation would inelude Green's complaint. But she said such decades-old allegations can only be used in a very limited number of cases. 
"Generally, an accusation from over 30 years ago is not going to bn considered admis­sible in court or relevant to an investigation," Ferman said. 
Cosby's attorney, Walter M. Phillips Jr., said Green's alle­gations were "absolutely false." 
"Mr. Cosby dons not know the name Tamara Green or Tamara Lucier (her maiden namo) and the incident she dnscribes did not happen," Phillips said. "It is irresponsi­ble of the Daily News to pub­lish an uncorroborated story of an incident that is alleged to have happened thirty years ago." 
Daily News city editor Kurt Heine said the newspaper stood by its story. 
The former Temple employ­ee, who now lives in hor native Ontario, Canada, went to Canadian authorities Jan. 13, contending that Cosby gave her some medication that made her feel dizzy, then fon­dled her at his Cheltenham Township horne after a dinner out with frinnds. She said she later awoke to find her bra undone and her clothes in dis­array. 
Cosby denies her allega­tions. 
She said she eonsidored Cosby, a Temple alumnus and booster who frequently attends campus ovents, a friend and mentor. 
Lafayette Square continues to be popular choice for off-campus housing 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY -Ailing Pope John Paul II missed out on the Ash Wndnesday prayers that ushered in the solemn and sacred Lenten season -a wist­f'ul first in his 2(>-year papaey. 
Though the Vatican says the 84-year-old pope's health con­tinues to improve since he was rushed to the hospital Feb. 1 with breathing spasms and the nu. doctors have persuaded him to prolong his stay to be on the safe side. I lis eighth night in the hospital passed calmly, the ANSA news ageney said early Wednesday. 
In serviees later at St. Potnr's Basilica, American Cardinal James Stafford presided in the name of' .John Paul -an unavoidable but no doubt reluctant substitution for a pope deeply stirrnd by the tra­ditional. period of' penitence, sacrifice and reflection that culminates with Easter. 
The Vatican did not say whether the pope planned any­thing special in his room at Home's Gemelli Polyclinic hos­pital to mark Ash Wednesday, a holiday h1~ hasn't missed with public prayers since he became pope in 1978. 
Officials say the pontiff has been holding Mass regularly for the doctors and nurses treating him at the clinic. John Paul is expected to remain there at least until Thursday, when the Holy See issues its next medical update. 
Ash Wednesday traditionally kicks ofT a few weeks of spiritu­al reflection for the pope ahead of the taxing Holy Week servic­es, which culminate with Easter on Mareh 27. 
With the pope in such frail hnalth, it remained undnar whether he would be able to prnside over tho traditional March 25 Good Friday prayer service at the Colosseum re­enacting Christ's Passion. lin has long since stopped walking in the Colosseum procession while carrying a cross; in recent years, the faithful have carried the t:ross and made the symbolic Stations of tho Cross walk while the pope observed and read a homily. 
The pope's long struggle with Parkinson's disease and 
crippling hip "It is bad taste to talk tor and and knee ail­Sodano, tlw
about il. and it's even 
ments have Vatican snern­
worse because the 
many Homan tary of stall~. Catholics starting point ofthis "expressed 
questioning debate is the pope's jlu. " bost wishns 
how long he for a swift can continuo rneovery of 
Giovanni Battista Re
to serve. The llis Holiness" Vatican's No. Italian cardinal in the name of 
2 official. Cardinal Angelo Sodano, caused a stir this week by publidy suggest­ing for the first time that the Vatican may be discussing the sensitive issue. 
Popes may resign but cannot be forced to do so, and .John Paul rep1~atedly has said he has no intention of abdicating. The last time a pope willingly resigned was in the 13th centu­ry. 
"It is bad taste to talk about it, and it's even worse because the starting point of this debatn is the pope's flu," a leading Italian cardinal. Giovanni Battista He, told the newspaper La Repubblica on Wednesday. 
On Tuesday, the prefect of a Vati.can tribunal said the popP would still be able to run tlw church oven if he readwd tlw point where hn couldn't spnak. 
"It is sullieinnt that one's will be nxprnssnd. and bt• expressed in a rlnar way," tho oiTieial. Cardinal ·Mario Francesco l'omp1~dda, told Uw rwwspaper La Stam pa. "It can be nxprnssed very well through writing, and in any casn can bn nxprnssnd also with dmtr and signilkant gnsturns." 
Sneretary of State Condol­eezza Bien, in Home to nwnt 
with Italy's 
fornign minis­
U.S. l'residnnt 

George W. Bush and tho Amoric:an people, papal spokesman Joaquin Navarro-Valls told rnportors. 
Sodano relayed to Hicn "tho grnetings of the Holy Father, asking that sho relay them to President Bush as well," ho said. 
The Hev. Miroslav Droszdnk, a Polish priest, said he visited John Paul briefly in his room Tuesday, although tho popo did not speak. 
"Outside of the spoken word thern is the languago of the heart and the language of' Faith," Droszdek said. "It is enough ... in this way we understand each other." 
his suburban Philadelphia mansion a ynar ago. 
Aceord ing to the State Bar of California, Grnen ontered a program for lawyers with sub­stance abuse or mental health prohlnms in October. The bar had lodged disciplinary charges against hor in March, alleging 12 counts of miscon­duct involving three elients, spokeswoman Kathlnnn lleitiks said. 
Among the allegations were l'ailurn to pay cliont funds 

2004-05 SEASON NOTRE DAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 

Attors Frotn lllP London SlngP 
(),_fl-lELI~O 
by William Shakespeare 
Friday, February 11 and Saturday, February 12 Both performances at 7:30 p.m. 
Leighton Concert Hall 
Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
General Public $18.00 • Seniors/N D Faculty/Staff $16 • All Students $1 2 
Tickets available at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders accepted. Call 631·2800. 
The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Series. 
r:tlUNIVERSI1'YOF ~DE BARTOLO ~NOTRE DAME ~PERFORMINGARTSCENTER 
In a time of changing climate in the off-campus housing market, one constant has 
remained. Lafayette Square Townhomes continues to deliver the finest in student housing at the most reasonable price. While most landlords are charging $300 to $400 per student, Lafayette Square is offering its 4 and 5 bedroom apartments at just $210 per person through the end of February. Although the amenities are too 
numerous to list, the most popular features include the central air, washer and dryer, dishwasher, 2 bathrooms, private patio and spacious storage and living areas. 
Located just south of Notre Dame on the 400 block of Eddy Street, the blue townhomes of Lafayette Square have gained the reputation of being the "in" place to live for college students. In fact, anyone spending a weekend there will quickly understand why it is nicknamed the "Blue Zoo". Property Manager Rod Ludwig encourages the students to have fun while at the same time to be smart about their partying. "The key is to not disrupt the surrounding neighborhood. Our students have proven that it is possible to party and have a good time while at the same time not cause problems in the community," Ludwig states. 
With just 15 townhomes left for the 2005-2006 school year, students must act quickly to guarantee housing for next school year. For a private showing or additional information, contact Real Estate Management Corporation at 234-9923. 
----.--------------­
r--------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, February 10, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

What's your sign? 
PO. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Man Lozar 

MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: !-leather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter 
CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574} 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BuSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESk 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is Jhe independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the studentS ofJhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saillt Mary's •·"': College. Editorial content, indudlng advertisementS, is not governed by policies ofthe adminisrtacion of either institurion. The Observer reserves Jhe right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of Jhe majority of the Editor in Chief, Man~ng Ediror, Assistant Man~ng Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qrmtions regarding Observer policies should be di=dto Editor in ChiifMatt Low.r. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Obscrvt'r {USPS 599 1-4000) is publishtd Mond2}' through Friday o:.:ept during exam ~tnd vaation periods. A subscription to Tite Observer is $100 for -one •cademk year; $5S fur on<: semester. 
The Ob~rver is publi~hed al: POSTMA5TER 024 South Dining Hall Sc!nd addresti cotn!ttions (0: Notre Dame. JN 46SS6-0779 ~Observer f'c:riodkal postage paid ar None Dllme 1?.0. Bux:779 and additional mailing offices. 024-South Dining Hall 
Nout Dame:, IN 46556..0779 
The OI.Mtv~ ill a member ttf the Al.s.'x::lakd Pres,j. All reproducti!)n rtght~ ~ resd\'~. 

There is something seriously wrong with America's fortune cookies. 
A bold claim to be sure, but one backed by solid investigative reporting. For the past week, with barely a thought for my own personal safety or the Pulitzer Prize, I have been eating Peter nothing but Chinese Wicks food. The last three for­tune cookies I received Englishmancontained the following Abroad messages: "You are known for being quick in action and decisions," "You love chal­lenge" and "You are going on well with your business." Even passing over the issue of their dubious accuracy, it should be apparent that none of these are for­tunes. 
Fortune cookies may have gotten out of the prediction business, but other forms of futurology are flourishing. According to a recent Harris poll, 31 percent of Americans believe in astrology. 
I am generally inclined to treat such polls with a large measure of skepticism, and I certainly doubt that 31 percent of a sample group answering "Yes" to the question "Do you believe in astrology?" is indicative that the belief plays a major role in their lives. 
But dearly, there are a lot of people who do take astrology seriously, with the best evidence for this being the commer­cial magnitude of the astrological enter­prise. 
I have no reason to doubt my friends' sincerity when they say they read the horoscopes in The Observer purely for their entertainment value, but I do doubt anyone would pay $1.99 per minute to call an astrological hotline if their motives were solely ironic. There are many such hotlines. 
The popularity of astrology is some­times seen as part of the New Age move­ment. While this is true in a sense, astrol­ogy is the least new element of the New Age. The belief that the stars predict or even decide our fate is as old as civiliza­tion itself. To the best of our knowledge, astrology started in Babylonia, and the practice quickly spread around the ancient world. When Kepler called astrol­ogy the foolish daughter of astronomy, he was right about the "foolish" part, but his genealogy was upside down. 
Some say astrology and other supersti­tions are a remnant of a pre-scientific age that will soon be discarded. Tho most famous expression of the view was pro­vided by the great biblical scholar Rudolf Bultmann, who said it is impossible to use electric light and at the same time believe in the New Testament world of spirits and miracles. 
The general public never got the memo. Most people find it's not only possible to use electric light and believe in spirits and miracles, it's easy. 
One explanation may be provided by Clarke's third law (named after Arthur C. Clarke), which states that "Any sufficient­ly advanced technology is indistinguish­able from magic." 
So why should we be surprised if using microwaves doesn't prevent us from believing in magic, when for most of us microwaves might as well be magic. Similarly, when Stephen Hawking writes for the general public about quarks and leptons, it would make very little differ­ence if he called them pixies and elves. And as for the New Testament, most mod­ern people find it easier to accept the spir­its and miracles than the prohibition on adultery. 
Another facet of the New Age is the widespread interest in the occult. A lot of parents find this sinister. Personally, I think the problem with the modern occult is that it's not sinister enough. 
As any classicist will tell you, the occult is meant to be hidden and secretive. Witches, for example, are supposed to gather at midnight to perform unspeak­able rituals. But according to the typo­graphically challenged newWitch maga­zine (a publication dedicated to "Witches, Wiccans, Neo-Pagans and other earth­based, ethnic, pre-Christian, shamanic and magical practitioners") this is all a big misunderstanding. 
The pages ofnewWitch do indeed con­tain spells and incantations, but none of them claim to involve powers any greater than those regularly attributed to per­fumes in glossy advertisements. 
The rest is numbered lists and astrolog­ical sex tips, which only goes to confirm my theory that given enough time, any magazine for a female readership will turn into Cosmopolitan (a parallel rule holds true with men's magazines and Maxim). 
I laving said that, newWitch does have more interesting letters to the editor than you'll find in Cosmo. My favorite began, "I am an Odinist, incarcerated in Michigan Department of Correetions." 
Other forms of neo-paganism are even more anemic. On the Internet, I came across a school of modern paganism called "lnclusionality," which sounds like the sort of religion that a government committee might come up with. 
Surveying these new spiritualities, they share a dismrnable thinness. For the most part they invoke the laudable but vague values of tolerance, respect and openness. Where they differ from tradi­tional religions is that they rarely make any actual demands of their adherents. 
David Brooks has said that in their spir­itual lives, America's social elite have typi­cally been "trying to build a house of obli­gation on a foundation of choice." Brooks is a gifted social observer, but here I think his aphorism has gotten the better of him. It would be more accurate to say modern spirituality is largely a question of build­ing a house of choice on a foundation of choice. 
Modern spirituality is not religion with the superstition removed, as some pre­sumed. The superstition is still there. It's everything else that is missing. 
Peter J!Vicks is a graduate student in the philosophy department. Like Franz Kafka and Princess Diana, he was bom under the sign ofcancer. He can be contacted telepathically or at pwicks@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Kate Antonacci Heather Van Katie Perry Hoegarden Do you feel your professors' Peter Leahy Mike Gillon 
"Good communication is as stimulating as black
political beliefs affect how they 
Viewpoint Kevin Brennan 
coffee and just as hard to sleep after., 
Caroline Murphy Scene conduct themselves in the classroom? Graphics Kenyatta Storin 
Anne Morrow Lindbergh 

Kelly MacDonald Illustrator 
novelist

Katie Knorr Vote by today at 5 p.m. at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

T~iE 0HSERYER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 10, 2005 page II 
And the· greatest is love ••• 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Boston College: not a 'backup college' 
Danw to be arrogant and insular. 
that Boston College fans do not reciprocate such attontion. Cofl(•y implores circular reasoning in almost twery anti-Eagle diatribe. Sixth, Coll'ey's label of Boston Collogn as "Backup Collegn" and his fur­
champioi1 USC. Coll'ey also ignores the reality that there is honor in bat-
another fine institution. tling to bc~at thn most storiod liJOtball prof.,Tf<tm in the history of college foot­
For over 20 y1~ars, my most faithful Vahmtint~ has been my grandmother. On February 14 every year !'or as long as I can rnrnnmbnr, a card would arrive at my housn containing a $5 hill, a box of 
Bob Masters

Whitman's Samplnrs and a note saying 
I Fall on the

(;randma and 
Floor and!

Crandpa were very 
/,aughing

proud of me. 
Starting from the limn of my infancy when I was elumsi­ly stumbling around in diapers and continuing on to these morn sophisti­ratml eollegn days in whieh I elurnsily stumble around in dress shoes, my c;randma nevt~r missed a Valontine's I>ay. 
c;randmothers have a built-in ten­dnncy to lavish earn, cash and candy on their grandkids..Just as the nightin­galll sings and thll Chicago Cuhs miss tlw playoffs. it's thn natural ordnr of things. Your grandmother is probably thinking of you right now, possibly nvl\n pulling a leltPr in the mail with a pink and rml lwart stamp on it, just like my (;randma is doing. 
As I think about it, this is the main n~ason I've nevt~r undtlrstood the bit­terrwss and hostility that Valentine's Day inspires in soml\ pPople. 
Now don't gt~t ml\ wrong-since I ent•11·nd my "dating days" post.-sopho­morll yPar of high school, l'vn spent almost every Valentine's night without a speeial someone. In !'act, I'm not sure if I can even refer to them as "dating days" since they lacked a sig­nilicantly important aspect-dates. 
Thus, I, too, understand that it's no fun to be reminded of romance, Cupid and all that schmaltzy stuff when you're spending the 14th alone. But the negative responses to Valentine's Day are simply too much for me. 
My personal pet peeve is the idea of "Anti-Valentine's Day," a concept I have heard much of since I arrived at Notre Dame. As far as I understand, this retaliatory "celebration" typically involves a gathering of single people who, if female, watch a llugh Grant film, have a good cry and talk about how much boys stink. If the gathering is of single men, it's essentially the same thing only with Bruen Willis movios, a good puke and talk about Anna Kournikova. 
To my mind, however, the most insid­ious nlornnnt of tlw Anti-Valentine's • eoneept is the suggostion that Valnntino's Day is purely contrived-a Hallmark l!oliday, part of some sort of massive eonspiraey designed to make money for· the bloated roses-and­eandy-industrial eomplex. 
It's not. It's the Feast of St. Valentine. Tho Catholie Encyelopedia speaks of recordings found in martyr books that list throe Valentines, all of whom were 
martyred for their faith. The St. Val­entine we think of on the 14th seems 
to be a fusion of several stories. 
My personal favorite tale of Valentine is this: during the reign of Emperor Claudius II, the Homan Empire needed soldiers. Claudius, fearing that the comforts of family life would dissuade his men from eombat, caneelled all marriages and forbade further engage­ments. 
St. Valentine, a Christian and priest in the Empire, defied Claudius' orders and secretly married young couples. For this, he was beheaded on the 14th of February. Thus, the legend reminds us, St. Valentine made the ultimate saerilice in affirmation of a simple idea: that love cannot and wi\l.not be defeated -not by edict, not by fear, not by the sinister doings of evil mon, not even by threat of' death. 
What is the lesson in all of this for our much too cheaply given sentimen­tal time? 
We are guilty of redueing Valentine's Day to dates, cards and couples, neglecting to recall the story of the man that this day is set aside to honor. 
We eoncern ourselves on this day solely with statusos-single, eouple, dating, broken-up-as if our plans for thn evening had anything to do with the colebration of the Saint. We speak of love as something to be written on a card and bought from a stationery 
store. Some of us would be happy to 
ignore love altogether, espoeially on 
this feast day. 

I have arrived at the conclusion, however, that the closest model of the true spirit of Valtmtine's Day comes back to Grandma. 
In his essay "Of Love," Sir Francis Bacon speaks of an inelination in tho hearts of men "toward love of otlwrs." 
If this capadty to love wasn't diroet­ed to just one person-say, toward a significant other on Valontinn's Day­then, Baeon suggested, it could mani­fest itself as an oven gn~atnr love of all people. 
The proc.livity to love could flow out of us in a broad stroke extendod to everyone equally, as a small echo of the way God loves. Wlwn your grand­mother sends you that card. wlwn your elnmentary school teaehnr makos you bring in t~nough New Kids on tlw Blot~k Valentines to give to one to everyone, it is in tho spirit of this type of univer­sal love. Proserving that spirit, as St. Valentino demonstrated, is worth tho ultimate sacrifice. 
/lob Masters is a senior Hnglish major and co-president (~(the Jlumor Artists cluh. Jle (~an he contacted at amaslers@rul. (•du. 
The 11iews expressed in this column are those(~( the author and not neces­sarily those (~r The Obsen1C'r. 
Congratulations to t.lw Irish liw an impressive vietory over Boston Collegt1 in men's hoops on Ttwsday night. This letter is in rngards to "Abstain from storming the court," writltHl by Bill Coll"ny in Tw~sday's edition ofThe Observer. 
Cofl()y's disrespectful artide rngarding Boston College damages Notre Dame in much t.lw sanw fashion that it undermines his own presumptuous judgments concerning Boston Collt~gn. Com~y·s artido nxmnplilins why much ofthenon-Domer world considers Notrn 
· 

l·'irst or all, Notre Dame has lost morn than lilllr games against Boston College, including the lwart-brnaking game at the end or the 1993 seas011 in which Notrn Damn was on a seemingly smooth road to a national championship. Certainly, Bob Davin and Tyrone Willingham. two or Notrn Dame's "worst machns," cannot bt~ blanwd fi1r that loss. Soeond, Boston C.ollege has been a loyal nwmbnr or tlw Big East mnlim~neo since its liJUnding, consis­tPntly dwosing weJJ-devnloped rivalries and deep conference play above all else. When tim opportunity eame filr the I·:aglns to mow on to tho ACC, they wniglwd thoir options and made a wiso and balanced dedsion to join what they t~onsidnrPd to be an acadnmir.ally and athlotically progres­sive confi)rPrH:n. If Cofl(~y disdains Boston College so much, why write hittt~rly towards Boston Collegt~'s nxit from the ctmfimmco'? 
By what nwasurn is Boston College baskntball overratnd'? Thoy wen~ tho first tnam in Big East history to ever start a season on a 20-0 run. In beating the Eagles, the Irish turrwd tlwmsnlvos into legitimatP tournament contenders and acromplislwd sonwthing that many other Big East teams 
had failt~d to do against Boston College-got a win. Fourth, Colli~y fails to establish any grounds to support his theory that Boston Collego wishes to be like Notre Dame. com1y's metaphor insists that whon one tnam beats another f(lOtball team in consec­utive garnns, the winning team desirns to bn "desperatnly" like the tPam they deli~ated. Using this rnasoning, we could ell'eetively con-dude that Notrn Dame wishes to bn likn Navy but not like national 
hall, and a certain amount of pride in actually doing it. A<> such, Boston College should not li~el apologetic (()r iL'i victories over the Irish. Nor should the players on those Irish teams li~el disappointed by the losses. UpseL'i happen all the time in college sports. 
By insisting rnpnatndly that Boston College is not a rival of Notre Dame, Coll'oy seems to put fiJrth the de l~tdo argument that Boston College is a rival of.Notre Dame. (Case in point: Contrary to Cofli~y·s advice, the fans at Tuesday's game reacted to tl1e Notre Dame victory by storming the eourt. Would they have done the same had the Irish defeated an unranked or otherwise irrelevant team?) Further, there is a dill'erenee between rival and arehrival. For examplo, Miehigan has several rivals, but Ohio State is the archrival. You can bo tho f(Jrmer without being the latter. Any Boston College fan will insist that Boston Collngn's biggest athletic rival is Boston University, an archrivalry that is played out on ice, not on grass. 
But Boston Collnge also maintains healthy rivalries outside of the Notre Dame spec­trum, like the University of Connectieut and Providence College in baskntball. Sadly thnse will bt~ left behind as Boston Collnge switdws conlimmces, but such is the nature of NCAA sports. New rivalries will be f(wmed, others will tilde. Any Stmsn or rivalry gleanwd hy Boston College studenL<> with resped to Notre Dame may arise from the fad that the two schools share Catholic roolc.;, inspire similar alumni loyalty and field roughly the sanw 
number ofstudonts. While Cofl'ey soems infatuatnd with Boston Colloge, rest assurml 
ther attack on Boston College's academics arn unfoutHlod. Last year 22,500 students applied to Boston Collego fiw an entering class of 2,250. Were all 22,500 applicanL'i choosing Boston Collngn as a backup to Notre Dame? Do all Notro Dame applimnL'i c.hooso to apply to Notre Dame as a bat:kup to Northwostern'! A'i Boston College undergraduates, we met very filw students who applied to Notro Dame, lbwer who applied t.o Notre Dame and 
didn't get in and yet oven lbwt~r who worn evlln mildly unhappy with their experience at Boston College after fi1ur years. In addition to being tritt\ smug and juvenile, tlw "Backup Collego" lablll is iL'ielf inherently contradictory. Not every Boston College student grows up dreaming of tho Golden Dome. Lastly, Cofl'ey's artido contains one other fatal flaw-a lack of rnspeet for his audience. Many of The Obsnrvnr's readers have relatives and friends who oitlwr attend or have attended Boston College. Indeed, a prof(,und mutual 
respect has long existed between the institutions. Notrn Dame Law School. the Mendoza College of Business, amongst others, all boast a good numbnr of Boston Collngt~ ~:,rraduates, the authors or this letter indudnd. i\s Notre Dame students, we attend all Notrn Dame fi1otball games to cheer f(Jr the Blue and Gold, we partidpatn fully in University life and we continue to be awnd and humbled to be part of this wonderful community. And we arn eonvinend that as Notre Dame studenL'i, we ean profess our loyalty to this school in more produetive ways than by belittling and degrading, without merit, 
Jeff Christoforetti BC '99, ND Ltw '05 Tom Gallagher BC '00. ND MBA '05 Kory Kramer BC '99. ND Ltw '06 jeff Robinson BC '00, ND Law '06 Eric Silva BC '00, ND Law '07 Andrew Wotlman BC '00, ND Law '06 Feb. 9 

Tr-rE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Thursday, February 10, 2005 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
Relient K lacks maturity to achieve greatness 

M83 creates glistening midnight anthems 

By BECCA SAUNDERS Assistant Scene Editor 
Relient K is one of the better known Christian bands in the current music scene. While its newest album, "MMI-IMM" has not yet reached the recognition of its last album, "Two Lefts Don't Make a Right, But Three Do" which debuted at No. 38 on the Billboard Top 200 album chart, it seems that it may be on its way to the same success. While "MMIIMM" is a solid punk rock album from Helient K, it is not its best album and perhaps overreaches for artistic merit at points in the album. 
Relient K released its first album in 1999 and since then has released two other solid albums making "MMI-IMM" its fourth studio released album. While the fan base of Helient K continues to grow, especially in the Christian market, the development of the band as musi-
MMHMM 

Relient K 
Gotee 


cians seems to have grown as well. "MMI-IMM" is composed of a pure punk rock with some twists throughout the album. 
Generally the album is mostly upbeat, but it is punctuated with a few memo­rable slower songs. These slow songs, however, definitely make up a small per­centage of the album. This is not a prob­lem since the faster songs on "MMI-IMM" are, for the most part, great. Helient K incorporates a good deal of different styles into its traditional punk rock form, and it is a mix that works well. Songs that begin sounding like a standard punk rock song will end in a moving piano solo that in a bizarre way really works well within the music of the song. This particular example is drawn from one of the slower songs on the album, "Let It All Out," which is also one of the best songs on the album both musically and lyrically. 
Most of the remaining great songs on 
REUHIT...... K 


the album are fast punk-rock songs with a lot of energy behind them. One of the most original ideas lyrically on the album is in, "My Girls Ex-Boyfriend" in which the lead singer Matt Thiessen thanks the ex-boyfriend that walked away from his current girlfriend, thus leaving her available for him. Thiessen hits the point at the end of the song when he sings, "When she and I settle down you ean bet I That he is going to have to settle for less I He's someone I would hate to be I I got the girl, and he's left with just the memory." 
There are some interesting ideas lyri­cally portrayed in many of the songs on "MMHMM." "More than Useless," one of the best melodies on the album and "This Week the Trend" both cover the problem of finding what each person is meant to do with their life. Many of the songs have strong Christian themes, but the Christian level of Relient K is not overbearing on "MMHMM." It does not take over the album, but the presence is strong through Christian messages on the album. The music is by far the most noticeable aspect. 
There are many terrific songs like, "Who I Am Hates Who I've Been," "The One I'm Waiting For" and "I So Hate Consequences" which compose the meat of "MMHMM." Overall, what "MMHMM" really shows is Relient K being a band that continues to improve musically and lyrically. "MMHMM" is a solid album, but some maturing needs to be done to real­ly make Relient K a band that can pro­duce a truly terrific album. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
By MATTHEW SOLARSKJ Scene Music Critic 
The night wounds. Those hours soaked in moonlight are a time of danger, of hearts broken and stolen and of countless improprieties. The night too sees its share of the better parts of the human experience, as a storied catalyst for Jove and exhilara­tion --in short. it is the ideal stage for the emotional highs and lows the daytime cannot possibly hope to con­tain. Graciously, music can. 
Under the moniker M83, French electronic artist Anthony Gonzalez has composed a scintillating sympho­ny to the night hours, and bestowed upon it the most appropriate and gor­geous title of "Before the Dawn Heals 
Us." 

Gonzalez .begins his opus with "Moonchild," which opens with a child reciting a poem and soon blos­soms into a heavenly alternating-key chorus that sets the perfect tone for M83's nocturnal descent. "Don't Save Us from the Flames" then explodes with celes.tial guitars and pulsating keyboards. These disappear into a hush so that Gonzalez can deliver a lyrical sketch of an automobile acci­dent, and erupt once again to punctu­ate the epic melodrama. 
M83 raises the emotional ante even more a few tracks later with an unti­tled number denoted simply by an asterisk that contains all the fiery intensity of a sunburst. One cannot help but marvel the cosmic energy in these songs comes from one little man and his keyboards. Listening to the waves of electronics and crescendos, one has the sensation of soaring high above the night-lit metropolis depict­ed on the album's exquisite cover. 
Interspersed with the characteristi­cally dynamic songs are slow-burning interludes and more ethereal materi­al, including the piano-centered bal­lad "Safe," perhaps the record's most conventional song, which ends by dis­solving into the pop-fizzle of distant fireworks (a marvelous aural specta­cle for the listener with headphones). 
M83 made a splash with the critical­ly-acclaimed "Dead Cities, Red Seas & Lost Ghosts," released domestically in 2004, which drew considerable acco­lades and even more "My Bloody Valentine" comparisons. While main­taining the cinematic grande.ur of that landmark, M83 has also diversified his sound with "Before the Dawn" and emerged with a fuller record that car­ries the listener through richer cadences. 
However, Not all of M83's sonic experiments prove fruitful. The hoki­ly-named "Car Chase Terror," for instance, is marred by a rather inane spoken-word dialogue that carries throughout the song. Interesting dur­ing perhaps the initial listen, this almost mawkish exchange between a mortified mother and child (seemingly voiced by the same person) fleeing some unspecified demonic pursuer grows increasingly grating with each successive spin. 

Photo courtesy of ilovem83.com 

Aside from a few missteps, M83's "Before the Dawn" provides an enriching listening experience. 
Also ·cringe-worthy is "Can't Stop," in which Gonzalez apparently enlists Alvin and the Chipmunks to chant the line "Can't stop I I can't stop, now" ad nauseam. These two duds aside, the rest of "Before the Dawn" shines more than enough to make for an infi­nitely enriching listening experience. Indeed, the dawn can wait. 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 

WEEK: ·1) Al·•·· 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Thursday, February 10, 2005 
page 13 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
-
Bright Eyes sparkles on 'Digital Ash' 
By KERRY O'CONNER 
Scene Music C:rili< 
In Fnbruary 2004, Bright fo:yes' front man Conor OllPrst Onislwd rPrording a 10-song album nnt.it.lnd ''I'm Widn /\wake, It's Morning," a collndion of lillky indin-pop he had writtnn about his ehangn in lifestyle sinen Obnrst. had movnd to Nnw York from tlw MidwPst. llownvnr, bnf'orn this album would snn t.lw light of day, Obnrst dnddnd hP was not finislwd in t.lw studio. lie rnturrwd to <Imaim. Nob. to mr.ord a sec­ond rneord -this one an nxpnrinwntal nlnctronic album. lin nnwrgnd three months latnr with a quirky masterpiecn "Digital i\sh in a Digital Urn" relnased simultarwously two weeks ago with ''I'm Widn i\wakn, It's Morning." 
Tlw album bngins, like all other Bright l~yns albums, with an opnning seqtHmee. This o1w is atmospheric, sublln and abstract, as if indicating the album is a dnparture from Bright Eyes' traditional sound. It is interesting to hear onee in awhile, but for most listens the album begins on track two. 
For bning an elndronic album, the songs thmnsnlvns lilnl organic, natural and famil­iar -it. is not the type of music that eomos to mind when the word "olnetronic" is used. The simpln instrumentation puts Oberst's melodins at the fornfronl. The lyrics anl in!:mdibly pnrsonal and immndi­atnly rPiatabln. lin roeounls simph1, special mnmorins from his past like "hoodnd swnatshirt walks" or "spreading out lh!l blanknLs on tho bnach," making each event fool monumental. !lis tone is nostal1-,ric, per­haps oven sorrowful, accepting that time has passed and life changes during that time. 
/\side from those personal lyrics, two other themes dominate the remainder of the album -death and Iogie. Tho bamboo-tinged "i\rc of Time" explores the circle of' life and death and our inability to escape l'rom it. Many of the other songs point out human hypocrisy and subtly touch on poli­tics. 

In terms of the tnxture of the album, "Digital i\sh" is extrmnely well produend. Tlm songs l'nnllush, warm and full of ennr­gy. Many ol" the songs, like the beautil"ul "Gold Mine Gutted," sound as il" they arn gliding by on a doud of smoke. Bright Eyes' past albums have been full of songs record­ed (intentionally) at terrible audio quality, and the bronzy soundscapes of this album are proof' that Oberst has maturnd. 
"Digital i\sh" has its share of master­pieces. "Take it Easy ILove Nothing!," co­produend by Jimmy Tamborello (The Postal Service), is the most irresistible song 
· releasod this year. Oborst tells an insido-out lovn story, and the beat earrying the song mimics the storyline, giving as much nnlO­tion as Oberst's voiee. lmmndiatoly follow­ing this is a simple thoughtful song called "llit Tho Switch," full of intense personal lyries that ironically seem tho most relat­able. Oberst's quivering voice gives chilling messages in this song -messages about getting oldnr, times changing and about the necessity to accept whatlil(l gives. Debating again on the nature of life and death -Oberst comes to a sudden conelusion, "Night rolls around and it just starts mak­ing sense I ... I there is no right way or wrong way I you just have to live. I So I do what I do and at least I exist." !Iis voiee will send shivers down your spine. 
To listeners familiar with Bright Eyes' previous albums, the experimental "Digital i\sh" might seem likn a more natural con­tinuum as compared to his other nnw 

Photo courtesy of saddle-creek.com "Digital Ash" Is an experimental elec­tronic album In contrast to the folky indie pop of "I'm Wide Awake, It's Morning." 
album, as Bright Eyes' albums have bnnn progressive consistently in musie style. Whem ''I'm Wide i\wakn It's Moming" is a maturn album aiming for grnalnnss and critical aedaim, "Digital i\sh" is warm, lwartfnlt and personal. The album rntains somo of tlw excesses typical of Oberst's songs -strange noises, some dark, depressing songs and a word or two sung out of tune. 
llowevnr, them arn morn hiLs than misses on this record, and it is those ineonsisten­eies -those ups and downs -that havo become a tradmnark of Olwrst's writing style. This is what makes thn album so 
Contact Kerry O'Conner at koconn I I @nd.cdu 
The Wiggles scorches on live album 
By MICIIELEJEFFERS and MATTHEW 
SOLi\RSKJ 
Sn·nr Music Crilic' 
I .udwig Willgenstdn once l"lllllarked all gn~at things eonw in lilurs. Thew an~ l(lllr Boatlns, linu· sm1.sons, l(lur "l.d.hal Wnapon" movies, fo[u· llorsenwn of tho i\pocalypsn and now from lh!' very bosoms of tlw musns. WI' men• mortals are graced with the musi­cal genius of lilur very spec-ial Wiggins. 
With a caJ'Iwr spanning morn than 13 years, Tlw Wiggins continuos to irnprnss audiences around the world with its unri­vaiPd ability to touch tlw human spirit through !WStatir song and danc1L Tho group's d1nory rountmumces mul smart mock turtln­rweks bdhl thn utter umadty driving ils artis­tic: vision. l.iko iLs pn~dncnssors and fellow i\ustralians, INXS, The Wiggles' Murray <:ook, Jdl" httl, i\ntl10ny Finld and Gmg Pagn proWl to be an unstoppablo combination on st.agn. Hneordnd during a concnrt. in Sydnny, "Livn llot Potatons!" revnals dear evidence those musical ieonoch1.sls will create nothing short of a musieal nwolution. 
In the tradition of Italian opera, The Wiggles kiek oil" iLs epic with a heart-slopping overturn, setting the energetic pace of tho show without r!wealing too much of tim may­hmn that is to lhllow. The foursome wastes no time getting the party startnd, launching imnwdiately into the dmrt-topping crowd­plnaser "Toot, Tl.)()l, Chugga, Chugga, Big Hnd <:ar." 
Catastrophe seems to plague the show whon the Sandman alllicls onH of tlw band nwmbers mid-pnrfimnance. Jell", the band's pw'ple-shirtnd keyboardist and token nar­mleptie, routinely nods oil' at the most inop­portune momenls -graciously tim crowd is evnr willing to awaken him on eun. 
Humors have long pinpointed Jon· as The Wiggles' unotlidal bad boy. Onn wonders to what extent art imitates Jeff's personal lili1 as Th!l Wiggin eoyly sings, "Oh load mo to tho floor and hear me yell for more I Because I'm a hoop dee dooin' kinda guy." One thing for cert.ain, however, is Jnfl" never lel<> rumors or cloudy days turn his smile upside down. Wo could all benefit by adapting .Jefl"s positive philosophy, "I hear a polka and my troubles they're through I Hoop dee boo." 

IIi-jinx and misdemeanors aside, The Wiggins appears in top form on "Potatoes," steamrolling through a 20-song set that ren­ders the arena-sized crowd rapturous throughout. The rawness of the combo's wig­gling artistry is elfeetivoly conveyed, avoiding the pitfalls of recording in an overly superfi­cial musk industry that so often obscures thn purity of a good wiggle. 
Tho Wiggles' notoriety has skyrocketed in recent years due to a wildly popular televi­sion program and a series of dance crazes attribuu1d to the foursome. The most recent of these, "The Monkey Dance," appears in a thrilling rendition on "Uve Hot Potatons." The group eagerly seeks out all opportunities to braneh out beyond the musical domain. 
Tho Wiggles oven sells nutritious Wiggle snaeks on its Web site. The song "Fruit Salad" proves to bn anything but Iiller. It proves the band's eornmitmnnt in hnlping fans aehievo healthy lili1 stylns so that. th!lir minds and bodies ean kenp on wiggling. 
Simply put, "Uvn I lot Potalons" is a phe­nomenal album. Thn brnadtl1 of ils talent is matched only by tl1n lnad singer's umacious stance on tl111 album eover. Tho Wiggins are a bnaeon of inspiration, a lighthousn l(lr thosn canoes lost in the murky sea of Post­Modernism. lls musk transcnnds gnnm, limn and spaen, inviting thn id, !~go and supnrego to all come outside and play in harmony. This album is onn hot potato you will not want to pass up. But perhaps it is bnst to let the words of the band spnak l(Jr ilsolf, "No mat­ter where you arn around tho world, The Wiggl~s· musie will lind a plaee in your home. 
·­
Contact Michele Jeffers at mjeffers@nd.cdu and Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.cdu 

DREW BIRD-And the Mysterious Production of Eggs .4) TRAIL OF DEAD-Worlds Apart 5) FEATURES-Exhibit A ..
. 
Thursday, February 10, 2005

page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 

No.7 Duke knocks off No.2 UNC at Cameron 
Redick, Nelson lead Blue Devils to 71-70 triumph in rivalry 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. -Duke slowed the pace and made North Carolina play a halfcourt game. Under those circumstances, nobody plays better defense than the Blue Devils. 
J.J. Redick scored 18 points, freshman DeMarcus Nelson added 16 and No. 7 Duke forced 23 turnovers to hold ofT the sec­ond-ranked Tar Heels 71-70 Wednesday night. 
North Carolina squandered a chance to win in the final sec­onds, never getting a shot off after inbounding with 18 seconds left. David Noel dribbled the ball out of bounds just as the buzzer sounded and the Cameron Crazies raced onto the court, cel­ebrating the Blue Devils' 15th victory in the past 18 games in this Tobacco Hoad rivalry. 
Daniel Ewing finished with 15 points and helped the Blue Devils (18-2, 8-2) move into a first-place tie with North Carolina in the Atlantic Coast Conference. Wake Forest trails both by one-half game. 
Duke finished 21-of-22 from the free throw line and made 10 3-pointers. All but one of the Blue Devils' baskets in the sec­ond half were 3s -only a layup by Nelson with about 10 minutes left came from inside the arc. 
Sean May had 23 points and 18 rebounds for the Tar Heels (19-3, 8-2), who couldn't overcome their shoddy ball control. Point guard Haymond Felton had eight turnovers and May added five, and the top assist team in Division I finished with only 10, 11 below its average. 
Felton scored 13 points and freshman Marvin Williams had 12 for North Carolina. 
But Nelson was the better first­year player in this one. He came up big when it counted, swishing two 3-pointers ih a span of about 90 seconds in the second half to help Duke take a 49-42 lead. Williams helped the Tar Heels rally, powering over Shavlik Handolph for a layup that turned into a three-point play to tie it at 53 midway through the second half. 
Ewing connected on consecu­tive 3s, Nelson added four free 

AP Duke guard J.J. Redick drives against North Carolina's Rashad McCants in the No. 7 Blue Devils' 71-70 win over the No. 2 Tar Heels. 

throws and Hedick had another 3-pointer to give the Blue Devils a nine-point lead. Still, North Carolina didn't give up. 
Felton scored six quick points to offset two more free throws for Nelson, and May knocked down two at the line to bring the Tar Heels within three. Randolph increased the lead to five with Duke's final points-again com­ing on free throws -and it was 71-66 with less than 2 minutes left. 
May worked inside to tip in a miss by Rashad McCants, and Williams stuffed a layup by Nelson to set up McCants' layup that cut the margin to one point. Hedick then was forced to launch a shot from about 28 feet with the shot dock winding down, and the Tar Heels took possession with the game on the line. 
Felton passed up an open shot to look down low for Williams or May, and he finally passed to Noel. But with time running out, Noel couldn't get off a shot. 
Memphis 85, No. 9 Louisville 68 
Freshman point guard Darius Washington scored 25 points and Memphis coach John Calipari earned his 300th victory in the Tigers' win over No.9 Louisville. 
Hodney Carney added 24 points and Anthony Hice had 15 -all in the second half-for the Tigers (14-10, 7-3 Conference USA). who snapped the Cardinals' nine-game winning streak and handed Louisville its worst home loss in four seasons under coach Rick Pitino. 
Taquan Dean and Ellis Myles each scored 1 7 points for Louisville (20-4, 8-2), which was outrebounded 41-30 and shot a season-low 33 percent (19-of-58). 
The Cardinals rank second in the nation in field goal percent­age defense, but it was the Tigers' defense that took control early. It triggered a 16-5 opening run by holding the Cardinals without a point for more than 9 minutes. 
Louisville, averaging 85 points per gam~. missed seven straight shots and committed five turnovers during the drought. At the end of one sloppy possession, Myles threw up just the ninth 3­point attempt of his career, miss­ing it badly. 
No.3 Kansas 74, Kansas State 
65 
Wayne Simien, J.H. Giddens and Keith Langford combined for 65 points and No. 3 Kansas kept its winning streak at Kansas State alive. 
A sellout crowd -the first at Bramlage Coliseum since Kansas was here in 2003 -carried anti­Kansas signs and put up a roar through most of the game. Someone even managed to throw a live chicken under the Kansas bench shortly before tipoff. 
But the Jayhawks (19-1, 9-0 Big 12) never trailed and with­stood a late rally to post their 29th straight victory over the Wildcats. Even more improbable is Kansas' 22-game winning streak on Kansas State's home floor, a streak that began in 1984. 
The Wildcats (13-7, 3-6) uncorked a 14-2 run that inelud­ed Fred Peete's 3-pointer fol­lowed by five straight points by Jeremiah Massey. Cartier Martin's jumper brought the crowd to its feet and sliced the lead to 58-54 with 4:21 to go. 
But then Simien made a free throw and Langford broke Kansas State's zone defense by driving the lane for a layup at the shot-dock buzzer. No. 17 Alabama 72, Tennessee 54 
Alabama was embarrassed on the boards at Florida over the weekend. The Tide didn't let it happen a second time. 
Kennedy Winston scored 18 points and No. 17 Alabama out­rebounded Tennessee by 24 in a victory. 
Alabama dominated the Volunteers with a 43-19 rebounding margin in recovering from its last game, a 31-point loss at Florida on Saturday. The Gators outrebounded the Tide 46-23 and snapped Alabama's six-game winning streak. 
"We were destroyed on the boards in Gainesville," Alabama coach Mark Gottfried said. "It sort of got away from us at Florida and we did a poor job, but we got it corrected by tonight's game." 
No. 20 Wisconsin 72, Iowa 69 

Steve Alford wanted answers for the free throw disparity. Bo Ryan made no apologies for it. 
No. 20 Wisconsin held off Iowa thanks to a 27-7 advantage at the free throw line. 
Alford said he was stumped by his team taking only 14 free throws compared to Wisconsin's 35, even though his team sent the Badgers to the line 10 times with five intentional fouls over the final 90 seconds. 
"That's a very difficult stat to overcome," Alford said. "We've really got to work hard and try to figure out why we foul so much and nobody else does." 
Alford was particularly miffed that guard Jeff Horner didn't go to the line once despite playing all 40 minutes, whereas Wisconsin's Kammron Taylor was 9-for-1 0 from the stripe. 
"I can't imagine a kid that plays 40 minutes as hard as he does, and he never goes to the free throw line. That still blows me away," Alford said. No. 13 Michigan State 83, Ohio State 69 
Chris Hill, who has been mired in a shooting slump for over a month, went 8-for-1 0 from the field and scored 26 points to lead No. 13 Michigan State to a victo­ry over Ohio State. 
Hill was 6-for-7 from 3-point range and made all four of his free throws in the highest scoring game this season for the Spartans (16-4, 7-2 Big Ten). 
Maurice Ager, who was both­ered by an illness, scored 18 points on 6-for-7 shooting for thP Spartans, while Alan Anderson addnd 16 points and Paul Davis had 11 points and 1 0 rebounds. 
Terence Dials was 10-for-18 from the field and had 22 points for the Buckeyes (16-8, 5-5), who had a four-game winning streak snapped. 
No. 25 Texas Tech 83, Baylor 
67 
Honald Boss scored 25 points to lift No. 25 Texas Tech past Baylor 83-67 on Wednesday night. 
Hoss was 8-for-1 0 from the field, including 4-for-5 from 3­point range, and went 5-of-6 from the [ree throw line. 
Texas Tech (15-5, 7-2 Big 12) led most of the way but Baylor used an 8-2 run early in the sec­ond half to go up 39-38. Tech came back with a 15-0 run to vir­tually put the game out of reach for the Bears (9-11, 1-8). 
After nearly 6 minutes without scoring, Patrick Fields of Baylor hit two free throws and a 3­pointer to whittle the· deficit to 55-44. 
Tech's lead dwindled to 69-60 on a free throw by Fields with 
6:22 remaining. 

The Observer accepts classitleds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classitleds is 3 p.m. AI classitleds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right w edit all classitleds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS Two story house completely remod-5-bdrm house. AVAILABLE eled 2003. Ready for 2005-06 $400 per student. 
WANTED Residential camp, located in south FoR RENT school year. Off street parking All utilities included + washer, dryer, PERSONAL central Indiana. Operated by the includes motion sensor light for security system. Catholic Youth Organization since COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS security. Four individually locked Call 315-3215. 
PART-TIME SALESPERSON. 1946. Serving campers aged 7 to AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 EARNINGS UP TO $1 000/WK. 16 in various programs. Inclusive of YEAR.TWO BEDROOM,TWO Dame, bus stop in front of house, Attention 2005-06 Jrs & Srs, Grad Days $299! Includes Meals, KNOWLEDGE OF PAINTBALL persons with disabilities. Great staff BATHS. HURRY 235-7234 FOR surrounded by other student hous-Students. Celebrity Parties! Panama City, HELPFUL. 315-7275. START ASAP. community. General Counselor, MORE DETAIL. ing. Laundromat next door Rental Home avail.for 2 students. Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, 
-. 
Specialty, Adventure and Health (drycleaning also), 9/12 mo. lease avail. Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award Professional Mom needs help pick-positions available. 8-bdrm house close to ND. basement available for storage of Fully furnished. Winning Company! ing up children from two area Extensive training provided starting Great area. 2773097 bicycles,luggage,trunks,etc.,new All appliances, SpringBreakTravel.com Catholic schools and taking them to May 2005. furnace and central air, new kitchen utilities,cable TV & 1-800-678-6386 a few afterschool activities between For application and information con-Great homes ideal for 3-6 stu-including new stove and high speed internet included. 3:00-6:00 p.m. Monday-Friday. tact: CYO Camp Rancho Framasa dents. Close to ND.Nice refrigerator, large living room for TV Off street parking, 1994 ND grads hoping to adopt. Great kids-daughters ages 11 and (toll-free):(888) 988-2839,x25 ore-area.2773097 or entertaining,free trash removal. 4 miles frorn ND. Please see ParentProfiles.com for 14; Great Pay! mail angi@campranchofrarnasa.org Call 289-4071. $465/mo/student. more info (Arizona/Michael & Schools and home close to 5 bdrm on ND Ave available 05-06. 574-656-8695. Kathryn). ND and SMC. BOUNCER WANTED 1000/mo. email 2 bdrrn condo on the lake w/loft. 1­If transportation is needed, LOCAL PUB 274-4145 ndhouses@yahoo.com car garage,close to ND. $850/mo. COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR SEND A VALENTINE CLASSIFIED 
car can be provided. 532-4933 Call 574-329-0838. LEASE TO YOUR SWEETHEART. DEAD-Call Karen Stonehill 272-5013 FOR RENT Exclusive Home Avail. now. 2005-2006 Academic year. LINE IS FRIDAY, 2/11, AT 2 P.M. Stables and Indoor Arena. Indoor Spotless Apartments Apartment Available June 1, 2005. Want a $10,000 scholarship for swimming pool & Sauna. Call for Cleaning SPECIAL RATES FOR 2 Bedrooms-2 Baths, Heather is a nice person. Matt is 
FoR SALE

tuition? details Judy 574-298-6217 STUDENTS. Emergency Weekend Washer/Dryer, not. Want a great summer job? Cleaning Available. Call or Email for Security System. Here is your chance for both. One bedroom condo near UNO. 6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAM-FREE Estimate Fully Furnished The Murphy factor. E-mail Ndsummerjob@ yahoo.com Appliances $72,000 280-8160 Kim PUS.$195/PERSON. AVAIL 05-06. Spotlessapartments@ comcast.net 626-233-7373 or for more info Kollar 329-0308 574-968-3670 Salvaty @earthlink.net Fortnight Thursday is back again . 
. .
. 

Thursday, l~ebruary 10, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NBA 

Lakers knock off Nets despite Kidd's triple-double 

AP Left, Lakers guard Luke Walton fights for the ball with New Jersey's Zoran Planlnic in the Lakers' 104-103 overtime win. Middle, Chicago's Tyson Chandler drives to the basket against Houston's Dlkembe Mutombo in the Rockets' 105-92 win. Heat guard Eddie Jones, right, goes up for the ball with New York's Tim Thomas. 
Rockets defeat Bulls, Miami prevails in OT against New York 
Associated Press 
liAST HUTIIEHFOIW, N.J.­l.arnar Odom had 16 points, rnatdwd a career-best with 19 rd}()unds and set up a go-ahead 3-pointer by Caron Butler with I:!i4 to go in overtime to lead the l.os Angelos !.akers to a 104-103 vidory over the New Jersey Nets on Wednesday night. 
The Lakers rallied from a 10­point dP.Iidt with 4:44 to play in rngulation and survived a late overtime shot by Vince Carter and .Jason Kidd's second straight triple-double. Los Angeles snapped a three-game losing streak and ended the Nets' sea­son-high five-game winning streak at home. 
Jumaine .Jones had 20 points, Butler 19. Luke Walton 17 and Chucky Atkins 14, including a long 3-pointer that tied the game at 92 with 12.1 seconds to play in regulation. The win was Los Angeles' third in nine games. 
The l.akers are 6-7 since Kobe Bryant went on the injured list with a seven~ly sprained right ankle on Jan. 1 !i. 
Carter, who had consecutive 40-point games, linislwd with 27 points on IJ-I'or-23 shooting. Ten­day contract wonder Billy Thomas had a career-high 14 points, while Jabari Smith and .Jason Collins added 11 points apiHCll. 
Carter gave the Nets a 101-99 lnad with 2:03 to play when he hit a jumper in the lane. Rockets 105, Bulls 92 
Tracy McGrady scored 24 points and Yao Ming added 21 points and 10 rebounds to lead the Houston Rockets to a victory over the Chicago Bulls. 
Houston has won a season­high five straight and four straight over the Bulls. 
Chicago got within 86-77 after a basket by Ben Gordon with 
7:45 remaining, but that's the closest the Bulls would get. 
The Rockets went on an 11-0 run in the next two minutes to stretch the lead to 97-77, their biggest of the game. 
Chicago, which entered the game averaging 44 percent from the field, shot just 37 percent. It's the first time in nine games that Jlouston has held an oppo­nent to under 40 percent shoot­ing. 
Chicago got 16 points from Kirk llinrich and Tyson Chandler added 12 points and had 20 





Students 

Fly Cheaper 
spring break. study abroad &more 
Sample roundtrip Student Alrfares from South Bend to: 
Toronto  $141  San Juan  $365  
Boston  $168  London  $368  
Denver  $168  Rio de Janeiro  $672  
San Diego  $233  Melbourne  $1308  



rebounds. 
A night after scoring 30 points and grabbing 11 rebounds in a win over Dallas, Luol Dong man­aged just seven points and three boards. 
McGrady was just 7 -of-17 from the field, but was 9-of-12 from the line and had nine assists. Heat 116, Knlcks 110, OT 
Dwyane Wade dribbled the ball between his legs three times before darting around Stephon Marbury and making a layup. easily the prettiest play of over­time in the Miami Heat's victory over the New York Knicks. 
Wade scored 30 points with six assists and six rebounds, Damon Jones scored a season-high 24 and Shaquille 0 'Neal had 16 points and 13 rebounds as Miami won its fourth straight. 
Marbury led a fourth-quarter comeback and scored 36 points for the Knicks, who lost for the 17th time in their past 20 games. 
Displaying the one quality -a refusal to quit-that team pres­ident lsiah Thomas considered praiseworthy after a 1-5 road trip, the Knicks rallied behind Marbury with a 13-2 run in the final 3:53 of regulation. 
But New York never led in the overtime period, and Wade's drive around Marbury gave Miami a 1 05-99 lead. The Knicks never got closer than four the rest of the way. Pacers 94, Bobcats 87 
Jermaine O'Neal validated his addition to the Eastern Conference All-Star team. 
One day after being seleeted to play in his fourth straight All­Star game, O'Neal scored 21) points and grabbed 10 rebounds, helping the Indiana Pacers hold oil' a late rally in a win over the Charlotte Bobcats. 
"To be invited is an honor, but it's only for a couple of days," O'Neal said. "Then I've got to get back to the real mission, that's this team. This is my team." 
O'Neal, who is averaging 32.3 points in his last three games, scored 15 points in the first half on 7 -of-10 shooting, leading the Pacers to a 54-36 lead. 
"He's an All-Star everyday," Stephen Jackson said. Wizards 95, Spurs 87 
Antawn Jamison had a season­high 35 points and 11 rebounds, Gilbert Arenas scored 24, and the Washington Wizards took advantage of Tim Duncan's absence in a victory over the San Antonio Spurs. 
Without Duncan, the Wizards' All-Stars outnumbered the Spurs' All-Stars two-to-one. and they were the difference. Arenas spurred a 16-2 run in the second quarter when it seemed the Spurs were going to blow the game open, and Jamison scored 14 points on 5-for-6 shooting in the fourth quarter to keep San Antonio from making a final run. Celtlcs 94, Clippers 89 
Paul Pierce and the Boston Celtics needed more than three quarters to figure out how to beat the Los Angeles Clippers. 
Pierce had 25 points, 10 rebounds and nine assists, and the Celtics used a late run to 
G-reat Food! G-reat Futt! 

~t Sports Jar in South Jend 2046 South Jend Ave -Across frot~t Martins Plaza 272-1766 
fUES: COllE~E Nt~HT-UJ 6-SPECIAlS (STAitTIN~ AT •t.OOJ Wed: Live fflJVIA Night -Srittg your teattts -Prizes fHutts: UJ -Petnw Night -1~ Specials startittg at 
9:00PM 
rally past the Clippers. 
"We just came out with a bet­ter sense of' urgency in the fourth quarter," Pien~e said. "We were tentative in the first half', but we f'ought back in the sec­ond." 
After f'alling behind 79-6!i early in tho f'ourth quarter, thn Celties scored 16 straight points to take their first load of the game on Haef' LaFrentz's 3­pointer with 6:19 remaining. 
"We are starting to bncome a pretty gutty basketball team," Celtics coach Doc Hivers said. Grizzlies 98, 76ers 95 
Allen Iverson emphatically defended Kyle Korver's dedsion to take a 3-pointer with time running out. 
"We'd take that 82 games," he said. "A wide-open 3-point shot!" 
Memphis would also gladly 
take the same option again  - a  
miss and a nice road victory.  
Dahntay  Jones  scored  a  

career-high 23 points and Stromile Swift added 17 to lead the Memphis Grizzlies to a 98-95 win over the Philadelphia 76ers on Wednesday night. 
Tlmberwolves 98, Nuggets 92 
Eddie Griffin had 10 points, three rebounds and two blocks in the 11nal 10 minutes of the game to spark Minnnsota to a win over the Denver Nuggets, snapping the Timberwolves' six­game losing streak. 
Kevin Garnett led Minnesota with 24 points. 11 rebounds and six assists. but it was (;J"iflin who injected a stagnant team with some much-needed energy to deliver the victory. 
The Nuggets led H2-77 with just under 6 minutes to play after Andro Miller hit a jurnpnr. 
Bucks 110, Raptors 107 
Hafer Alston was back in action for the Toronto Haptors and looking for an apology. 
Mieluwl Hedd had 29 points. leading the Milwaukee Bucks to a victory over the Haptors and their troubled point guard. 
Alston said he wanted an apol­ogy after being benched for much of' Tuesday's loss to Cleveland and that he's not sum he wants to stay with the Rap tors. 
Alston and coach Sam Mitchell argued after Alston was pulled from the game in the first quar­ter against Cleveland. Alston didn't come out of the dressing room for the second hall' and was seen crying as he was escorted to the team bus by security during the fourth quar­ter. 
Thursday, February 1 0, 2005 

page 16 The Observer+ SPORTS 
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

No. 7 Baylor escapes Oklahoma, winning 73-72 
No. 10 Connecticut destroys Big East foe Boston College, 80-55 
Associated Press 
NORMAN, Okla. -Sophia Young hit a jumper from just inside the 3-point line in the final seconds to give No. 7 Baylor a 73-72 victory over Oklahoma on Wednesday night. 
The Bears took possession after a driving layup by Oklahoma's Dionnah Jackson with 11.5 seconds left. Chelsea Whitaker drove to the left base­line and kicked it out to Young, whose jumper bounced in. 
Oklahoma couldn't get a shot off after a timeout and long inbounds pass into traffic. 
Young had 21 points to lead the Bears (18-3, 8-2 Big 12). Emily Niemann added 15 points, Steffanie Blackmon 11 and Chameka Scott 10. 
Jackson scored 26 of her 30 points in the second half, near­ly leading Oklahoma back for a badly needed victory. Leah Rush had 12 points and reserve Antoinette Wadsworth finished with 10 points for Oklahoma (12-9, 4-6), which has lost six games to ranked opponents. 
The Sooners rallied back from a six-point halftime deficit to tie the game at 56 after back-to-hack baskets by Wadsworth. But Niemann hit a 3-pointer from the right side and Young scored inside to give Baylor a 61-56 lead. 
Jackson drove for a basket to bring Oklahoma back within two points, and Niemann faked another 3-pointer before step­ping in for a jumper to start a 6-0 run that extended Baylor's lead to 69-61. 
Jackson pushed back with a 3-pointer and two free throws to bring Oklahoma back within three. Niemann hit two free throws, but Jackson responded with two of her own before bringing the Sooners within a point with a driving layup with 
51.7 seconds left. 
Scott lost the ball out of bounds on the left wing to set up Oklahoma's final possession, and Jackson's driving layup rolled all the way around the rim and fell in to give the Sooners their only lead of the second half at 72-71. 
No. 10 Connecticut 80, No. 22 Boston College 55 
Barbara Turner had 18 points and eight rebounds to lead 1Oth-ranked Connecticut to an 80-55 victory Wednesday night over No. 22 Boston College. 
The Huskies (16-5, 9-1 Big East) held the Eagles to a sea-son-low 33 percent shooting and tightened their grip on the conference lead. 
The Eagles (15-6, 6-4) were playing their second straight game without leading scorer Jessalyn Deveny, out for the season with a ruptured Achilles' tendon in her right leg. The senior co-captain was averaging 17.1 points. 
Without her, the Eagles con­tinue to struggle. BC was com­ing off a 69-52 loss at home to St. John's. 
None of the BC starters fin­ished in double figures. Reserve guard Kindyll Dorsey had three of BC's six 3-pointers and led the Eagles with 11 points. 
The Huskies put this game away early with stifling defense and a speedy transition game. UConn dominated inside, outscoring the Eagles 40-16 in the paint and had 22 points off 16 BC turnovers. 
No. 11 Rutgers 67, Seton Hall 
40 
Matee Ajavon scored 13 points in a homecoming of sorts, leading No. 11 Rutgers to a victory over intrastate rival Seton Hall. 

In the second half, as Rutgers 5, 8-2 Big East) after losing last on two consecutive penetrating who led by 19 at halftime and put on a full-court press, week at Connecticut. Heta shots to cut the lead to 7-6 with cruised to their fifth win in the Ajavon put on a show. Playing Korpivaara paced Seton Hall 15:46 left. last six games. within a few blocks of her (13-9, 5-6) with 12 points. No. 17 Texas 83, Nebraska Kiera Hardy and Danielle neighboring hometown of Cappie Pondexter added 12 53 Page scored 13 points apiece to Newark, the freshman scored points for Rutgers. Tiffany Jackson scored 19 lead Nebraska (14-8, 6-4). seven straight points in an 11-4 Seton Hall got off to a strong points and No. 17 Texas stayed No team has won the Big 12 run surge the first five minutes, start, taking a 7-2 lead in the alive in the chase for the Big 12 with more than three losses in giving Rutgers a 42-27 lead. first three minutes on a driving title with a rout of Nebraska. league history. Texas lost a 
It was the second straight vic­jumper by Monique Blake. Jamie Carey added 18 points total of three conference games tory for the Scarlet Knights (17-Ajavon then got in gear, scoring for the Longhorns (14-7, 7 -3), the last two seasons. 

circlek@nd.edu www.nd.edu/-drclek AIM: NotreDameCK
CIRCLE K 
Looking for a way to do service? We make it easy ... 
SUNDAY  MONDAY  TUESDAY  WEDNESDAY  THURSDAY  FRIDAY  
Milton  Children Here*  Children Here*  Children Here*  Children Here*  Food Bank  
Home  3:00-6:00  3:30-6:00  3:30-6:00  3:30-6:30  12:35-3:15  
1:15-3:15  YMCA Tutoring  Ark Angels  YMCA Tutoring  Manicures at Milton  Humane Society  
YMCA  3:10-5:00  3:35-5:45  3:10-5:00  3:15-5:00  3:20-5:50  
Open Gym  Ark Angels  Center for the  Ark Angels  Ark Angels  Children Here*  
6:40-9:10  3:35-5:45 Nursing Home  Homeless 3:40-6:20  3:35-5:45 Nursing Home  3:35-5:45 JJC  3:30-6:00 Ark Angels  
GENERAL  Bingo  Humane Society  Bingo  5:50-8:15  3:35-5:45  
MEETING  6:10-8:15  3:40-6:15  6:10-8:15  Knitting in Farley's  Logan Bowling  
5 p.m.  Letters to TroopsA  JJC  Basement  3:35-5:50  
Library  8:00-10:00  5:50-8:15  10:00-12:00am  
Auditorium  

* meets by Zahm mailboxes
Projects leave from Library Circle at the time listed. 
A 

meets in Farley's basement 
Pick up at Main Circle is 10 minutes after the posted time. NEW MEMBERS ALWAYS WELCOME! 
• No commitment 
Email: circlek@nd.edu for more information 
• 
Free transportation 

• 
Signs offon Res Life hours 

• 
Fits every schedule Come to our meetings: Sunday Spm Library 



,------­
~hursday, February I 0, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

,----­



OUND THE NATION 
page 18 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Thursday, February 10, 2005 

Men's Swimming & Diving CSCAA Top 25 
team  points  
1  Auburn  199  
2  Stanford  193  
3  Florida  184  
4  California  176  
5  Michigan  167  
6  Minnesota  161  
7  Texas  152  
8  Arizona  142  
9  usc  137  
10  Virginia  124  
11  Georgia  122  
12  Kentucky  114  
13  Indiana  105  
14  Northwestern  96  
15  Purdue  89  
16  TexasA&M  79  
17  Tennessee  57  
18  Wisconsin  55  
19  Hawaii  54  
20  North Caronna  42  
21  BYU  37  
22  NOTRE DAME  35  
23  Harvard  30  
24  Ohio Stale  23  
25  Alabama  8  

Women's Swimming & Diving CSCAA Top 25 
team  points  
1  Georgia  200  
2  Auburn  192  
3  Florida  184  
4  Texas  176  
5  Stanford  167  
6  Arizona  161  
7  SMU  152  
8  Wisconsin  142  
9  Calilomia  134  
.10  TexasA&M  132  
11  UCLA  119  
12  Maryland  113  
13  Virginia  104  
14  Penn stale  96  MiT  
15  Arizona State  86  
15  North Carolina  75  
17  Michigan  73  
18  Indiana  65  
19  Hawaii  53  
20  Southern Cal  43  
21  Washington  25  
22  Tennessee  24  
23  Minnesota  23  
24  Northwestern  22  
24  Purdua  22  

Men's College Basketball Big East Conference 
team BigEast 
Boston College 
9·1 Syracuse 8-2 Connecticut 7~3: Georgetown 7-3 Plltsburgh 6·3 NOTRE DAME 6·4 Villanova 5-4 West Virginia 4-6 Seton Hall Rutgers St. John's Providence 

around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
N.C. State at Wake Forest, 7 p.m., ESPN 
Xavier at Cincinnati, 9 p.m., ESPN2 Gonzaga at Pepperdine, 11 p.m., ESPN2 
NBA 
Los Angeles Lakers at Detroit, 8 p.m., TNT Sacramento at Seattle, 1 0:30 p.m., TNT 
NFL 


Associated Press 

NASHVILLE, Tenn. -Titans coach Jeff Fisher might have given quarter­back Steve McNair another reason to return for the 2005 season. 
Fisher lured Norm Chow away from Southern California, where he helped the Trojans win two straight national championships, to become Tennessee's offensive coordinator. 
Fisher said Wednesday he has no doubts the 58-year-old Chow can handle NFL defenses despite spend­ing 32 years coaching in the college ranks. 
One of Chow's top priorities is "to keep a quarterback on his feet and keep him from getting knocked down," Fisher said at a news confer­ence. "Obviously, we share similar 
IN BRIEF 

McNabb denies reP-orts of 
illness during Super Bowl 
KAPOLEI, Hawaii -Donovan McNabb has no apologies for his Super Bowl performance. He won't allow his teammates to make excus­es, either. 
The Philadelphia Eagles quarter­back set everyone straight after his first practice for the Pro Bowl on Wednesday. McNabb said he wasn't ill during the fourth quarter of their loss to New England, as center Hank Fraley claimed earlier this week, and receiver Freddie Mitchell certainly didn't call any plays for him. 
The Eagles' offensive struggles were caused only by the Patriots and the tension of a Super Bowl, not a phantom sickness. 
"No, I wasn't sick and no, I didn't throw up," McNabb said. "If people want to use that as an excuse for why we lost, that's not the way it was, but I'll put it on my shoulders. I'll take the blame.... When you're trying to make every play possible, you have to opinions. So that's one thing that's going to be a paramount priority of ours is to keep the pocket clean and keep Steve from getting hit." 
McNair had bone grafted onto his sternum Dec. 28 after missing six starts and parts of two others last season. He has said he will wait to decide whether he should retire from the NFL after 10 seasons. 
Fisher said he believes McNair will return. The quarterback met with Chow on Friday, and McNair's recov­ery is nearly complete. 
"I believe that this decision put a lit­tle more bounce in his step than he's had," Fisher said of McNair. "He's doing very well right now, and I know he's excited about this." 
Chow said the timing for this move was right. His hiring com~ a week 
dig deep. We were just trying to give it all we had." San Francisco to host 2007 
MLB All-Star game SAN FRANCISCO -Baseball's All­Star game will return to San Francisco in 2007 for the first time in more than two decades, giving the Giants a big draw for season-ticket holders the year after Barry Bonds' contract expires. 
Commissioner Bud Selig made the announcement Wednesday at Willie Mays Plaza outside the Giants' water­front stadium. Mays, who played in a record-tying 24 All-Star games, said he was glad the city would get the opportunity to showcase SBC Park. 
"I wish I had a chance to play here," he said. "I think I would have hit a lit­tle bit more home runs than Barry." 
Bonds, who passed his godfather on the career home run list last season and has 703 overall, is under con­tract through 2006. Tickets for the All-Star game could be an incentive to help the team keep its season-tick­after the Trojans signed a recruiting class ranked among the best in the nation. 
"Everybody understands it's an opportunity for me and my family to get to the highest level of football, and they understand the excitement that we have," Chow said during a confer­ence call. 
Chow replaces Mike Heimerdinger, who was hired as the New York Jets' offensive eoordinator last month. 
This is Chow's first job in pro foot­ball after 27 seasons at BYU, a season at North Carolina State and the last four at USC. Chow had some NFL opportunities in the past, but never pursued them. 
Asked about reports of friction with USC coach Pete Carroll, Chow said there was nothing to that talk. 
et holder base of about 28,000 fans for 2007. Women's British Open will 
allow transsexual golfers LONDON -Transsexual golfers will be allowed to play in this year's women's British Open in a poliey change made by the Ladies Golf Union. 
The move, announced Wednesday, comes 11 months after Danish-born Mianne Bagger became the first male-born golfer to play in a profes­sional women's tournament. 
The LGU, which governs amateur golf in Britain and also runs the women's British Open, followed a similar move made last year by the Ladies European Tour, the governing body of professional women's golf in Europe. 
Bagger, who had a sex-change oper­ation in 1995, is playing this season on the Ladies European Tour and expected to enter the women's British Open. The tournament is open to amateurs and professionals. 
Thursday, February 9, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NHL 

Bethnan sets weekend deadline to save season 
Associated Press 
NI~W YOilK--With just a littln hit of lwdging, NIIL commission­PI' (;ary Bnttman all hut isstwd a drop-dnad datn l(u· saving what's ~~~n ol' tlw snason: this wenknnd. 
Tlw lockout rnadwd its 147th day W•~dnnsday. II' a dnaI is rnarlwd. Bdtrnan said. thnrn would b.-a 2H-ganw rngular sna­son and tlw playoff structurn would bn pr·nsnrvnd. 
"It is dnar to rnn that if wn'rn not working on a writtnn donr­nwnt hy this wnnknnd, I don't snn how wn ran play any sem­blanen ol' a snason." Bettman said. 
!lours narlinr. the playnrs' association rnjnctnd what was desrrilwd as a compromisn pro­posal during a socrnt mnnting in Toronto. NIIL chief legal ol1icnr Bill Daly said. 
Tho sidos agnwd to knnp rwgo­tiating through Thursday, with a salary cap still t.hn main issue. !\ union spoknsman did not immn­diatnly rnturn phone calls. 
"Obviously wn will listnn to nwrything thn union has to say, but wn'vn giv•.m all we ean giv~; and gonn as Jar as wn can go, Bnt.tman said. 
"This has just bonn a very dilli­cult, frustrating process and wn'rn sorry. But wn havn to go through it," hn said. 
The lockout has wipnd out H13 of tlw I ,230 regular-season garnns, as wnll as this weekend's sclwdulod All-Star game. 
Tlw NII L offered on w.~dnnsday to go with tho play­nrs' association proposal from l>nc. 1) t.hat fnatun~d a luxury-tax systmn and an immndiatn 24 pnrcnnt rollback on all existing contrads. 
If it was dnterrnirwd aftnr an unspoeilind period ol' tinw that thn dnal wasn't working, the agnHHnont would bn eonvnrtod to tho lnague's Feb. 2 proposal that contained a salary cap that would !'oren toams to spend at least $:{2 million on playnr eosts but no morn than $42 million -­including bnnnlits. 
Also indudnd in that six-ynar olli~r--which could bn rnopnned by thn union aftnr four years -­was a profit-sharing plan that would allow the players' associa­tion to evnnly split rnvnnues over a nngotiated level with the league. 
"Tho union's responsn was that this was not a framework that they were interested in going forward with," Bettman said. 
It was belinv11d that there had been no eontact betwnnn the sidos sinee last Friday when talks broke off after three straight days of meetings. 
Tho bulk of the negotiations sinee mid-Dneember were eon­ductnd mostly by Daly and play­ers' association senior director Ted Saskin. 
Bnttman and players' associa­tion exneutive director Bob Goodonow wore invited by the union back to the table last week for two days of talks after the union rnjeeted the league's pre­vious proposal. 
Tho NIIL has been intent on making a deal that provides a link botwnen league revenues and player costs. The players' association has steadfastly refusnd to accept a salary cap as a solution to the stalemate. 

GOLF 
Pebble Beach a lot different 
National Pro-Am 
to have a new look for this season 
Associated Press 
PEBBLE BEACII, Calif. -­Tim I ferron walked ba!'.k to thn sixth tee Wednnsday morning at Pebble Beach and took in a spectacular vinw of the 513­yard hole, whieh strotches out toward the Padlk Oemm, rising along the ruggnd cliffs on tho right sidn M the fairway. 
Something didn't look right. "Wow," Ilorron said. "Look at those dills." 
Thon it dawnnd on him. lie IHlVel' COUld SOH the elif'fs SO clearly becausn of a large eypress tree. But that tree is no longer there, wiped out by holi­day storms. It should make thn par 5 play easier, because any tee shot that straynd too far to the right was blocked by the tren. Players either had to go over or around it. 
"You ean see the whole eliiT now, and it's pretty eool," llerron said. "But it changes everything, especially on the second shot. That tree played with your head." 
The Pebble Beach National Pro-Am will havn a slightly dif­ferent look when it gets under way Thmsday. 
Hain that delugnd California six weeks ago also washed out a small section of the 18th fair­way about 280 yards from the tee, making the landing area a little tighter. Plus, the two cypress trees rHplaced in the middle of the fairway were plantnd about 20 yards farther out than they were. 
"I hit a drivo whern I used to, and it was 15 yards from the water--not 25," .Jim Furyk said. 

But there are some things about Pebble Bnach that rarnly changn. 
One of them is the weatlwr, and that's the good news. A tournament that developed a reputation for "Crosby weath­er" --cold, rain, wind, rain, fog, rain -looks as if it will be basking in sunshine for the fifth straight year. 
And the field is eclectic as ever. 
Because the three courses have room for f80 pro-am teams, the pros range from defending champion Vijay Singh and Phil Mickelson to players like Stevo Stricker, Garrett Willis arid Tom Seherrer, whose only status on the PGA Tour is having won a tournament onee upon a time. 
Amateurs range from llollywood stars (Bill Murray, Kevin Costnnrl t.o comedians (George Lopnzl to athlntes (Patriots l~oaeh Bill Beliehnek, Emmitt Smith. .lorry Bie11l to CEOs from Fortune 500 compa­nies. 
Another Pnbble tradition over the last two decades is the type of name on thn ITystal trophy. Only three of tho last 21 win­ners of the AT&T Pnbble Bnadr National Pro-Am have not won a major. 
No other regular PC;\ Tour event has sueh a major list of winners over the last two dm:ades. The next bnst is Tlw Playnrs Championship -the fifth major --with 16 of thn last 21 champions having also won majors. 
So many major winners at Pobblo is no fluke. 
"It's going to be a slow process of putting yoursHif in position and never really shoot­ing yourself out of tlw tourna­mont," said Mark O'Moara, 

Summer Session Dates Early Session 
May 23-June 17 
Summer Session EJ 
May 23 -July 1 
Summer Session IIJ 
July 5 -August 12 
Summer Session B 
June 6-July 29 
~I'. 
~ 
~ 
0 
~~41 .\)~\' 
• 
Experience a premier national university ranked a "best value" by U.S. News & World Report. 

• 
Get your degree faster! 

• 
Take courses at the Lake Shore and Water Tower Campuses near Chicago summer fun. 


Or, study abroad! 
Registration starts in February. 
1.800.262.2373 
-
summer-sessions@luc.edu 
Apply online today! www.luc.edu/summerOS 
.  Preparing People to l.ead Bxtmordirmry Uves  
LOYOLA  
~  UNIVERSITY  

§CHICAGO 
..... 
C,:l 

-
Thursday, February 10, 2005

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
NBA 

Olajuwon's charities gave money to terrorist groups 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON-A mosque established and funded by b.as­ketball star Hakeem Olajuwon gave more than $80,000 to char­ities the government later deter­mined to be fronts for the terror groups ai-Qaida and llamas, according to financial records obtained by The Associated Press. 
Olajuwon told the AP he had not known of any links to terror­ism when the donations were made, prior to the government's crackdown on the groups, and would not have given the money if he had known. 
"There is no way you can go back in time," Olajuwon said in a telephone interview from Jordan, where he is studying Arabic. "After the fact, now they have the list of organizations that are banned by the govern­ment." 
A Treasury Department spokeswoman, Molly Millerwise, declined to discuss Olajuwon's contributions but said, "In many cases donors are being unwit­tingly misled by the charities." 
Federal law enforcement offi­cials said they were not investi­gating Olajuwon, a 7-foot center born in Nigeria who played 17 seasons for the Houston Rockets of the National Basketball Association before retiring in 2002. 
Olajuwon, 42, who became a 
U.S. citizen in 1993, was known as "The Dream" and won the NBA's Most Valuable Player award in 1994, when he led the Rockets to the first of back-to­hack championships. 
The Olajuwon-founded Islamic Da'Wah Center in Houston gave more than $60,000 in 2000 and $20,000 in 2002 to the Islamic African Helief Agency, the cen­ter's tax records show. 
The government shut down the relief agency in October, say­ing it gave money and other sup­port to Osama bin Laden and al­Qaida. 
But the agency and its possible ties to terrorism had been in news stories years earlier, before Olajuwon's contributions: · 
+ The U.S. Agency for International Development cut off two government grants to the Islamic African Relief Agency in 1999, saying funding the group "would not be in the national interest of the United States." 

+ A former fund-raiser for the relief agency, Ziyad Khaleel, was -named in a federal trial in 2001 as the man who bought a satel­lite telephone that bin Laden used to plan the 1998 bombings 
-

MudToy 
Live at Kim's Chevron 1613 Miami St. Saturday Feb.l2ili 8to 11 Must be 21 + 
of U.S. embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. 
+ Numerous news organizations reported shortly after the 2001 terrorist attacks that the relief agency was among more than two dozen Islamic. charities under scrutiny for possible ter­rorist ties. 
Olajuwon also participated in a 1999 celebrity bowling tourna­ment for the Holy Land Foundation for Relief and Development, which the U.S. government shut down in 2001, accusing it of sending money to !·lamas. The Islamic Da'Wah Center gave more than $2,000 to the Texas-based Holy Land Foundation in 2000, according to its tax returns. 

Former NBA star Hakeen
At the time, Olajuwon was vice 

Olajuwon gave more than
president of the mosque ­

$80,000 to charities that
which was named after him ­

were later determined to be
and provided more than three­

fronts for terror groups. 
quarters of its money. Olajuwon heads the separate foundation that now controls the Islamic help the needy in Africa. Da'Wah Center. "They came and approached 
All the donations came before us and everything was legiti­the government designated the mate. I had no knowledge of Holy Land Foundation and the their activity," Olajuwon said. Islamic African Relief Agency as The Treasury Department terrorist fronts. Vipul Worah, an alleged in October that several accountant for Olajuwon's chari­top officials of the group's ties, said U.S. authorities have branches overseas are al-Qaida never asked about the contribu­members or associates and the tions. group gave bin Laden hundreds 
Olajuwon, who is married with of thousands of dollars in 1999. four daughters, became a The federal government says Muslim during his professional the Sudan-based Islamic African career and was known for play­Helief Agency's U.S. branch is ing in key games while observ­!AHA-USA, based in Columbia, ing dawn-to-dusk fasting during Mo. That group has challenged the Islamic holy month of the terrorist designation in Ramadan. court, saying it is separate from 
Tax returns for Olajuwon's the Sudanese group. Islamic Da'Wah Center show it Shereef Akeel, a lawyer for gave the Islamic African Relief !AHA-USA, acknowledged the Agency $61,250 in 2000 and U.S. group and the Sudanese $20,000 in 2002. group "may be in a partnership 
Those donations accounted for together" and some people with 
2.2 percent of the $2.8 million links to lARA-USA have,terrorist the Islamic African Relief Agency associations. received during 2000 and 1.4 "Just because someone trav­percent of the $1.4 million it eled in the same circles, just raised in 2002, records show. because one employee was at 
Olajuwon said the donations the same conference as someone came after fund-raisers from the who supported terrorism, does­Islamic African Relief Agency n't mean the organization spon­visited Houston. He said the sors or condones acts of terror­group told him donations would ism," Akeel said. 

COLLEGE fOOTBALL 

Comtnittee suggests video replays for 105 
NCAA group says replay should be expanded next season 
Associated Press INDIANAPOLIS -An NCAA committee on Wednesday rec­ommended that permission to use a video replay system tested last season in the Big Ten be expanded to all schools and conferences for 
further study during the 2005 football season. 
The recom­mendation by the Football Rules Comm­ittee will be considered by an oversight panel Feb. 24 and, if approved, will be put in place for the regular season this fall. 

"The response to video replay nationally and in the Big Ten was overwhelmingly positive," said Chuck Broyles, the coach at Pittsburg State and chairman of the rules committee. "When we have the ability to correct a poten­tially game-changing error, and we have the technology to do so, we feel this improves the fairness of the game and directly improves the student­athlete experience." 
I Ie said many conferences have asked permission to try the replay system for the 2005 season. 
The Big Ten in December said replay was used in 28 of 57 conference games last sea­son. Of the 43 calls ques­tioned, 21 were overturned. 
Games where

''The response to 
replay was

video replay 
used averaged 

nationally and in the three minutes longer than
Big Ten was 
games without

overwhelmingly 
replay.

positive." Under Wed­nesday's rec­ommendation,
Chuck Boryles 
any conference

chairman of rules 
that wants to committee use video 
replay must 
confirm its plans with the rules commit­tee by June 1. 
"The preparation, training and educational effort needed to properly administer a sys­tem of review requires a com­mitment from a conference to make it run successfully," Broyles said. 



Voice 


You.. boice 



Vote at https://apps.nd.edu/elections Thu..sday, 2/10/05 8 a.-8 p. o .. 1st Floo.. LaFo..tune 3:30-8 p. 
Rua-off Elec:tioa 
bet'W'een Ba..on/Shappell & Leito/Bongiovanni 
Thursday, February 10, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NBA
minutes. 
Hainsburger was not the only super-sub for the Bulldogs Wednesday night. Adrian had 

Jordan searching 
l'ive players in double l'igures, including non-starters Psuate, who had 15 points to go with her 17 rebounds, and Steele, who hit four three-pointers en 

for opportunities 
route to her 12 points. 
Sophomoro forward Justine Mullnn carne ofT llw bench and scored nine points, wnll above her season avPrage of' 2.1J and tied for the loam lead. 
ADillAN 71, SAINT MAHY'S 56 at the MEHILLAT CENTER 
SAINT MARY'S (9-H. 4-9) 
Boyen, K. 0-0 1-2 I, Lipkn 4-7 0-0 H, Knsslnr :l-7 2-2 S, Mullen 2-H !i-6 '1, Boycn, B. 4-10 0-0 '!. Bush 2-6 1-2 4. Cn•aehbaum :l-1 S :l-4 '!. Mangan 2-3 0-0 4, Baum 1-1 0-0 2. 
ADHIAN (IH3, 4-'J) Borowiak (,_ 11 0-1 1:!, llelldoblnr 4-H 4-4 12, lloosP 0-3 2-2 2, McCall 1-5 0-0 2, l'suate 4-1 :! 1>-1> I !i, Steele 4-1> 0-0 12, Hainsburgnr 4-6 2-2 12, Carter 1-1 0-0 3, 
AP
1st 2nd 'Ihtul 

SAINT MAHY'S :{2 2!i !i6 
Michael Jordan shakes hands after a press conference for 
Adrian 26 4!i 71 
his high school basketball tournament, "The Jordan Classic." 

Adrian 
continued from page 24 
was a difTernnl story. 
A :~-poinlN by Bulldogs fn~sh­rnan forward Kalin l'suate cut tlw Belles' lnad to thwn. Bnllns s1~nior forward limily Crnachbaum answt•rpd on tho otlwr eml. and it looked likn tho lnams would lw locked in a COIIIIWlitiVf' ganW. 
Tlwn llw Bulldogs scorf'd t.lw rwxl I() points. 
Tlw Bolli's went 12 posses­sions and almost I0 mirurtns with­half'. Creaehbaum, in particular, struggled all game, making only thrnn shots in 18 attempts. 
Meanwhile, Adrian was put­ting on a 3-point shooting clinic. Jessie Borowiak, Amanda Hainsburger, Fallon Steele, Hila Cart!~r and l'suate all connected from long range as tho Bulldogs shot IJ-18 for the game from bnhind tho arc. 
Bolles lwad coach Suzanno Bellina said Tuesday night that stopping Bainsburgor would be a major part of' Saint Mary's defensive plan. 
"We have to focus on Hains­
burger. llwir great 
player inside,"
"We have to j(Jcus 

out scoring at all. Bellina said in a A ('f'(~P throw by on Rainsburger. pre-praetice inter­senior I'P'ntnr view.
their great player

MaurPen Bush Bulldogs coach
inside."

with a littiP morn Kathy Morris than nirw minutes crosso'd up llw ldl PndPd tlw Belles, however,
Suzanne Bellina 

drought. and llw and lef'l
Belles coach 

sncond Bnllos finld Hainsburger on
before Wednesday's 

goal of' llw half' the bnneh to start (~amn via a layup game the game. When by f'rPshrnan llw 5-f'oot-IJ senior guard Alison linally entered the K1~ssler with H:22 left in t.hn game, the Belles seemed to ganw. have f'orgott1m their game plan. 
Tlw Bellns shot only 26 pnr­Hainsburger ripped through cnnt from llw field in the second Saint Mary's for 12 points in 28 
:!-point goals: Saint Mary's 2-7 (Boyce, B. 1-3, Kessler 1-3, Mullen 0-1, ), Adrian '!­IS (Borowiak 1-3, McCall 0-3, l'suatn 1-1, Stnnln 4-IJ, 1\ainsburgnr 2-:l. Cartnr 1-1 ). Fouled out: None. Hehounds: Saint Mary's 30 (lloyen, B. 6), Adrian :n (l'suatn 17). Assists: Saint Mary's I:! !Boyce, K. 5), Adrian 12 (llnlldobler 61. Total fouls: Saint Mary's 1(,, Adrian 12. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Michael Jordan is willing to wait for the right situation bf'fore becoming an NBA owner. 
In the mnantime, Jordan said Wednesday, he is spnnd­ing time with his family and promoting various interests, including his high school All-
Star gamo and tho relnasn of' the 20th edition of Air Jordans. 
"I still have that dnsin~ Ito purchase a loami. But I'm being palionl and waiting for tho right scenario," Jordan said at a news confen~ncn announcing his .Jordan Classic prop gamn in April will move from Washington, 
D.C. to Madison Squarn Garden. "When tho right situ­ation eomns up, it will hap­pen. I'm vnry patient. 
"I enjoy being homo. I nnjoy being with my kids and doing a lot of' tlw things that· I haven't had a chancf' t.o do. Basketball is still my passion, and I look forward to gntting back into it." 
.Jordan, looking trim in a black pinstripo suit and silvnr tin. has had snvoral runs at becoming an owner. lin had talks with Charlotte Bobcats majority owner Bob Johnson about a role with the expan­sion team, and was in serious discussions with Sen. Herb Kohl to purchase control of' the Milwauken Bucks. 
There also was a report last summer that .Jordan was interested in buying the Miami Ileal, bnfore team owner Micky /\rison said tlw franchise was not for salo. 
It seems inevitable Jordan someday will have his own team. Evnn NBA commission­or David Stern said last year, "I would predict that in the next few years Miehanl .Jordan will be an ownnr of an NBA team." 
Jordan said tho right situa­tion would be "something I like ... financially it fits, eeo­nomically it's worthwhile. That's important for anybody who wants to make a busi­ness decision." 
lie didn't rule out an expansion team, if' or111 is approved in the futuro. 
Jordan was asked about second-year N BA stars LeBron James and Dwyann Wade, who both will be in tlw All-Star game later this month. When asked about comparisons being madn between .Jordan and James, Jordan said, "lie's doing fine on his own." 
lie also said he was not in favor of the route .lamns took to the NBA -leaving high school straight for the pros. "That's not what I would do," .Jordan said. 
"But they have their own minds to make up." 

Irish 
continued from page 24 
defense in the seeond half, limiting the Friars to just 21 points on 6-for-24 shooting (25 pereent). Notre Dame also outseored Providence 42-10 in the paint. 
Notre Dame got a spark from freshman Tulyah Gaines, who came off the bench to score nine points on 3-for-4 shoot­ing. She added two rebounds, two assists and two steals in 18 minutes of play. 
"I thought Tulyah came in and gave us some good min­utes off the bench." McGraw said. 
Meanwhile, forward Courtney LaVere started for the first time since her December knee surgery and had 10 points on 5-for-9 shoot­ing to go along with four rebounds and three steals in 23 minutes of play. Teresa Borton added 10 points and four rebounds as well for the Irish. 
Batteast finished with a dou­ble-double with 23 points and 10 rebounds. She was 10-for­13 from the free throw line. 
For the game, the Irish shot 50 percent from the field, scoring 45 second-half points. However, McGraw was not pleased with her team's effort. 
"We weren't focused at all tonight, and we definitely took them lightly," McGraw said. 
The Irish are back in action Saturday afternoon when they face Georgetown at the Joyce Center for another Big East contest. 
NOTRE DAME 75, PROVIDENCE 57 at ALUMNI HALL 
NOTRE DAME (21-3, 9-2) 
Borton 5-8 0-2 10, Duffy 3-6 0-0 8, Batteast 6-15 10-13 23, Gray 4-5 0-2 8, Lavere 5-9 0-0 10, Gaines 3-4 3-4 9, Allen 3-7 0-0 6, D'Amico 0-0 1-2 1, Erwin 0-4 0­00. 
PROVIDENCE (1-20, 0-10) 
Furstenburg 3-9 3-3 9, Shields 0-2 0-0 0, Gard 1-4 0-0 2, Snyder 6-17 2-2 18, lloward 2-2 0-0 4, Baugh 4-9 2-2 11, Brown 3-4 0-0 7, Serebryanskaya 0-3 6-8 
6,  
NOTRE DAME Providence  1st 30 36  2nd Total 45 75 21 57  

3-point goals: Notre Dame 3-8 (Duffy 2-4, Batteast 1-4), Providence 6-16 (Snyder 4­8, Brown 1-1, Baugh 1-2, Gard 0-3, Furstenburg 0-1, Shields 0-1). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 38 (Batteast 10), Providence 24 (Snyder 7). Assists: Notre Dame 19 (Duffy 5), Providence 11 (Gard 5). Total fouls: Notre Dame 11, Providence 16. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Irish freshman Charel Allen talks to assistant coach Coquese Washington, left, as assistant coach Jonathon Tsipis looks on. 

Heaven & Earth 
143 Dixie Way South (933 North) 
1 mi. from campus 
Open Sunday, Feb 13th 
(574)273-2212 

•Also 
open on Sunday, Feb I 3th & Valentine's Day 

•Free 
Rose Petals with every Saturday delivery 

•Our 
flowers are spectacular! 


ATTENTION UNDERCLASSMEN! 
The men's boxing team is seeking a freshman or sopho­
more for the position of Men's Boxing Club Manager. 
The student will spend the second semester of this year training with and assisting the current managers, and he or she must commit to working next year (fall and spring), and ideally through senior year. 
Student must be extremely responsible, well organ­ized and available to work Monday-Friday between 3:30 and 
6:30. Student will typically work I 0-20 hours a week at 6.45/hour. Secretaries are responsible for a wide range of tasks including compiling boxers' data, helping to plan and prepare for the Bengal Bouts, accounting large sums of money. and coordinating with different administrators and departments on campus. 
Student must be flexible enough to work on week­ends, attend meetings and run errands if necessary. and be proficient in Microsoft Office applications as weii.The club is looking for a student who is very motivated and willing to take on large responsibilities to help out with a great Notre Dame tradition. 
If interested, please contact Kristin or Ashley at bengals@nd.edu or 631-9325. 


Holland 
continued from page 24 
for the Belles this season in the individual medley and will likely be an essential factor in a strong start for Saint Mary's, who fell to two conference opponents -Albion and Calvin Colleges -in its last meet. Following the individual medley, sophomore Nicole Korte, who has had a success­ful first season swimming with 
_the Belles, can be counted on for a strong performance in the 50-yard freestyle. Korte has been fairly consistent for the team in achieving high fin­ishes in the sprint events throughout the season. 
Competition will continue into Friday and Saturday, with a total of 20 women's events taking place during the meet. 
Friday will begin with the 200-yard medley relay and 
Diedrick 
continued from page 24 
and the Biletnikoff Award winner under Diedrick, and quarterback Todd Husak was first-team all-Pac-10. 
Diedrick could not match that success with the Irish, but the statistical production of a few of his position play­ers -in addition to past experience -eneouraged the Stampeders staff. 
''I'm extremely pleased to have Bill join our staff, as he has a remarkable resume holding some great posi­tions," Calgary offensive coor­dinator Steve Buratto said in Wednesday's press release. "I've traeked his coaching since his days with the move into such events as the 100-yard butterfly and 100­yard breaststroke. The last race on Friday will be the 800­yard freestyle relay. The last day of the meet will open up with the event's longest race, the 1 ,650-yard freestyle. 
Most recently, freshman Lisa Balog has been swimming the long-distance events for the Belles, with a time of 20 min­utes, 5.83 in the 1,650-yard freestyle when the team com­peted in the Maroon Invitational in November. 
The 200-yard breaststroke will also take place on Saturday, and the competition will conclude with the 400­yard freestyle relay. Preliminaries begin daily at 10 
a.m. and finals begin at 6 p.m. 

As of now, undefeated Calvin College sits at the top of the MIAA standings. Hope, Kalamazoo, Olivet and Albion are all ahead of the Belles. Saint Mary's is at sixth place in 
Eskimos, and we are very for­tunate to have him join the Stampeder organization." 
Diedrick will coach the two offensive positions that per­formed best in an inconsistent final season with Notre Dame. 
In 2004, Irish quarterback Brady Quinn threw for 2,586 yards and 17 touchdowns. Freshman running back Darius Walker played in 11 games, r.ushing for 786 yards. 
In 2003, Diedrick was one of the coaches responsible for developing Quinn as a fresh­man. Quinn set freshman school records for passing yards, touchdowns, com ple­tions and attempts that sea­son. 
Diedrick has coached at four Division-! schools ­Notre Dame, Stanford (1998­2001), Washington (1994-97) the conference, with Alma College coming in at seventh. 
The conference season has provided a combination of ups and downs for the Belles, but overall the program has made significant strides since last season. Saint Mary's posted its first conference victory in over a year on Jan. 15 when it defeated Alma College by a score of 51-49. 
Although the competition against Kalamazoo College appeared to be a significant defeat on paper, the Belles captured five first-place finish­es against one of the strongest programs in the conference. 
Although the meet will not likely change Saint Mary's position in the conference standings, the Belles are in position to achieve high indi­vidual and team finishes in several of the events. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
and Washington State (1989­
90) -in his 34-year career. He has also been the offen­sive coordinator at Division-11 schools Montana State (1984­
85) and Idaho (1986-88), as well as a high school head coach and a graduate assis­tant at Hawaii. 
Diedrick has coached NFL quarterbacks Drew Bledsoe and John Friesz and top col­lege football quarterbacks Damon and Brock Huard and Marques Tuiasosopo. 
lie graduated from Eastern Washington in 1970 with bachelor's degrees in physical therapy and physical educa­tion. lie earned a master's degree in education from Hawaii in 1971. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


"Let the children come to me. Do not hinder them. The kingdom of God belongs to those such as these." (Mt 19:14) 


Thursday, February 10, 2005 page 23 
The Observer+ TODAY 
SCOTT ADAMS

DILBERT 

CHARLES SCHULZ

PEANUTS 

HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
t 
iO 
YUMMG I 

02005 TriSune Media Services, Inc. 
­All Righls Re&el\led. 
TAYFF 

I rJ I I 

TOOCLE WHEN HE ORDERED ONE FOR THE 
ROAD, HE--­

rJ I I
1 
www.jumble.com 
TORTOG j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon.

rJ r I I 

Print~ here: rI I JA rI I J 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: SNARL BOWER LAXITY EXOTIC
Yesterday's Answer: 

What an expensive meal can cost ­A LOT OF CALORIES 
CROSSWORD 
Note: The three circled letters will spell a word that is missing 
from 14 answers in this puzzle. 
ACROSS 37 Popular rock/ 1 Some student rap/funk group needs 42 Deep sleep 
6 _law 43 Action star 1oWeed eradicator Steven 14 Admit 44 Gambling site: 
wrongdoing Abbr. 15 Tip 47 In 1492 it sailed 16 On the safe side the ocean blue 
17 Memorable 
49 Area next to the times narthex 19 Geese 50 False clue formations 52 Full oi life 20 Title grp. in an 55 Draft holder ABC drama 56 Player of one of 21 Some Balkans the Corleones 22 Popular 57 Russian river seafood chain 
58 Discount coast­26 1950's-60's TV to-coast plane star ticket 28 Cockeyed 64 Shine's partner 29 "The Odd 65 Good name for Couple" role a DNA expert 31 Reggae relative 66 Danny of the 32 Pick N.B.A. 35 Luau doings 67 Ballpark amts. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:-+::+:=+::c+=cf"!''l'!!"' 30 Hold aside, as a college athlete, to extend his eligibility 33 Composer who 
had a long 
relationship with 
George Sand 
pointer 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
' 

Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
68 Quaker 69 Mercury and Saturn 
DOWN 1 Equivalent of 
"ur 2 funny" 2 Need dough 3 Household pest 
with a fiery 
appearance 4 Kook 5 Passed the 
buck? 6 Veteran 7 Lucille Ball, 
notably B_Day 9 60's protest org. 
1 o Pierced body part, sometimes 
11 Critical warnings 1=-+---ll-+-­
12 Nike rival 13 Corporate jet maker 18 Alternative to white 
21 Wool wrap 
22 Respond angrily, with "out" · 23 Promise, for one 
24 Take off quickly 
25 Builder's guide 
26 Atlantic fish 27 Certain greens 
WlLL SHORTZ 

36 Joe of "Apollo  45 Popular game  56 Trifling amount,  
13"  import from  in a phrase  
38 Like "Lawrence  Russia  58 Teamwork  
of Arabia"  46 Robin feature  disrupter  
39 "Yikes!"  48 Puts down  59 Pro vote  
40 Talk crazily 41 Go downhill  51 Stirs up  60 Secretive· org. 61 Business loss  
44 "And I'm the queen of  53 Drink from a dish  62 Geologic period 63 Article that may  
England"  54 A wee hour  go with berets  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ________________________________________ ___ 
-
Address _____________________________________ City---'-------State _____ Zip_______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: David Gallagher, 20; Mcna Suvari, 26; Mia Farrow. 60; Joe Pesci. 62 
Happy Bi.-thday: This could very well he your year. Everything is looking positive and prosperous. Focus on what you need to do and get it done. and the rest will he easy. Your liming couldn't he hctler, so make the jump that you've been contemplating but not acting upon. It's up to you --do your best and you will get ahead. Your numhers arc 3, 17. 19, 22, 32, 36 
ARIES (March 21-April t9): Get ready to ride the storm. You won't know which way is up, hut you will do just fine. Don't set your goals out of reach. hut don't give up and set them too low. Balance will he the key lo your success.**** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Stay in the background and you'll stay out of trouble. Saying too much can lead to a loss of friendship. Stop talking ahout what you are going lo do and take action. ll's what you accomplish thai will count.** GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): You will be the one who gels everyone going today. Your genuine enthusiasm coupled with your smart ideas and inventive solutions will lead to popularity and a chance meeting with someone special.***"* CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Not everyone will understand what you arc trying to do. Investment or a pending settlement is looking favorahle. Luck is in your corner, and good things are coming your way. A change may not he welcome, but it will be hencficial. *** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): How you treat others will determine how well your day will turn out. II will he vital that you arc williflg to help out wherever you can. Friendships will form that can influence your future. *"* VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Strong beliefs will lead to success. Work-related event~ will allow you to make a strategic move into the spotlight where you can impress everyone with your ahility to take care of matters professionally. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't get angry about the little things when you have so much going for you. This can he a wonderful day lilled with romance, adventure and advancement. If you can dream it, you can make it so. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Change may he required. hut you don't have to he dramatic about it. Keep your plans to yourself. and you'll avoid opposition. You need to formulate what will serve you hest before taking action. ** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You can make a big splash if you present your ideas. Travel the information highway and you will discover everything you need to know. Self-improvement. romance and luck are all highlighted today. 
**** 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Making money or changing the way you do so should be penciled in. You can set up interviews. start your own husincss or apply for a better position. It's all about getting ahead and enjoying what you do. 
AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feh. 1!1): Take on as much as you like. Your imagination is at an all-time high, and it's best to put it to good use rather than let it run wild. Take advantage of the opportunities around you. ••• PISCES (Feh. 19-March 20): Like it or not, you must deal with personal paperwork. Once you get your responsihilities out of the way, you will not only feel better. but there is a chance that something good will come your way. ••• 
Birthday Haby: You have stars in your eyes and a capacity to do great things. You can see all the possihilities and are prepared to take a leap of faith in order to fullill your dreams. You arc an explorer. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenia/ast.com. 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
.. 

..'··atr 

------------.,...., 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, February 10, 2005 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

-Winning ugly 
Irish trail last-place Providence by six at half, storm back to give Friars 10 straight losses 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sporrs Editor 
Providence wasn't supposed to compete with No. 6 Notre Dame. The Friars scored just six points in the first half against No. 10 Connecticut Feb. 5, and won just one game all year. 
But the Irish took them light­ly Wednesday night, and as a result found themselves losing at halftime before pulling away for a 75-57 win at Alumni Hall. 
"We played the worst defen­sive half of the year in the first half," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "Give credit. to their offense." 
McGraw, who just two days ago was praising the play of late of her team, was not pleased with the Irish effort Wednesday night. Notre Dame gave up 36 points in the first half with the Friars shooting 50 pMcent from the field. Shauna Snyder led the way for Providence with 16 of her 18 points in the first half, helping the Friars to a 36-30 halftime lead. 

"Snyder was playing out of her mind," McGraw said. "She shot the ball real well, and she got a lot of open looks too." 
Providence {1-20, 0-10 Big East) lost its 10th game in a row after the Irish (21-3, 9-2) pulled away in the second half with a 21-3 run. During the · run, Irish forward Jacquline Batteast scored seven points to give the Irish a 67-49 lead with 5:50 to play, sealing the Irish victory. 
Snyder finished 6-for-17 from the field, including 4-for­8 from beyond the arc. The Friars hit six 3-pointers as a team, most of them wide-open looks. 
"We just didn't have any leadership tonight and it start­ed with our leaders," McGraw said. "The underclassmen just followed suit. 
The Irish played better 
see IRISH/page 22 


SMC SWIMMING 
Belles trek to Holland forMIAAs 

Three-day conference championships start today with prelims 
By ANNA FRICANO Sporrs Writer 

The Saint Mary's swimming team hit the road Wednesday afternoon to travel to the Holland Community Aquatic Center in Holland, Mich., to compete in the MIAA Conference Championship. 
The three-day event begins this morning with swimmers taking to the water for prelimi­nary events at 10 a.m. The day kicks off with the 200-yard freestyle relay, followed by the 500-yard freestyle. The after­noon will play host to a variety of events, including the 200­yard individual medley and the 50-yard freestyle. 
Junior Sarah Nowak has been an especially strong swimmer 
see HOLLAND/page 22 
FOOTBALL 
Diedrick heads north to coach Stampeders 
Ex-Irish coordinator accepts position with Calgary of the CFL 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
Bill Diedrick is headed back to the CFL. 
The Calgary Stampeder Football Club of thn Canadian Football League named the former Notre Dame offen­sive coordi­nator its new quarterbacks and running backs coach on Wednes­day. 
Diedrick, 

Diedrick
who lost his job after Irish coach Tyrone Willingham was fired but coached Notre Dame's offense in the Insight Bowl, has over 30 years of coaching experi­ence, including a two-year stint with the CFL's Edmonton Eskimos (1991-92). 

"Bill's background speaks for itself," senior vice-president of football operations and head coach Tom !Iiggins said in a Wednesday press release. "lie brings an enormous amount of knowledge, as well as his CFL experience, to the Stampeders and will be a huge asset to the coaching staff." 
Diedrick most recently spent th'fee years as N otJ;e Dame's offensive coordinator from 2002-04, guiding the team to a 21-16 record under the West Coast offense. 
Before coming to Notre Dame, Diedrick was the offen­sive coordinator for four years at Stanford, where he built one of the nation's most pro­ductive offenses. 
Cardinal receiver Troy Walters -now of the NFL's Indianapolis Colts -was Pac­10 Offensive Player of the Year 
see DIEDRICK/page 22 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Bad half gives Adrian win 
Belles lead at break on the road, fall apart in second half 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
It was an all too familiar scenario for the Saint Mary's Belles. 
Just like earlier games this season against Albion and Alma, the Belles took a lead into the locker room against the Adrian Bulldogs, but a major second half scoring drought led to a disappoint­ing 71-56 loss for Saint Mary's Wednesday night at the Merillat Center in Adrian, Mich. 
After a baek and forth first 10 minutes, the Belles (9-13, 4-9 MlAA) pulled out to 30­20 lead just before halftime. Two Adrian threes cut the lead, but Saint Mary's was still up 32-26 at the break. 
The second half, however 
see ADRIAN/page 21 


MEN~S NCAA BBALL
en 
NBA 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
NHL 

WOMEN'S NCAA BBAU 
NBA 
w
1-
(.) 

No. 7 Baylor 73, 
Lakers 104, Nets 
No. 7 Duke! No. 2

-z Former NBA star 
An NCAA committee 

League commissioner 
Oklahoma 72 
North Caro ina
103,0T 
~ 
Hakeem Olajuwon's 

Gary Bettman said this
suggested the use of 

The Lady Bears 
The Blue Devils upset 
..... 

weekend is the deadline 
the Tar Heels at Cam-
video replay in all 

escape an upset thanks 
Heat 116, Knicks
mosque gave over 
leagues for the 2005 sea-

to end the lockout and 
eron Indoor Stadium
c;) = 
$80,000 to charities dis-

to Sophia Young's 
110,0T
~ 

save the season. 
covered to be fronts for 
son. 

jumper in the final sec-
behind J.J. Redick's 18 
onds. 
points.
terrorist groups . 

..... 
=c 
pe~ge 19 

page 15
page 20 
page 20 
page 16 

page 14 
.. 
---~'. 













