
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 102 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2, 2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM FACULTY SENATE 
Cotntnittee discusses ideal qualities for new-provost 

By TERESA FRALISH News Writer 

Provost search eommittee members heard comments and .suggestions from professors about the kind of administra­tor needed to replace outgoing Provost Nathan llateh as Notre Dame's chief academic officer at Faculty Senate's Tuesday meeting. 
Search committee chair and University President-elect Father John Jenkins told sena­tors he had begun eollecting names of potential candidates and would share them with the full search committee soon. The search for a new provost was prompted by Hatch's deci­
sion to depart Notre Dame .July 1 to assume the position of president at Wake Forest. 
Student affairs committee chair Jay Brandenberger sug­gested the University might strongly consider female can­didates, becauso much of the University's aeademic leador­ship is male, he said. 
"Most of the deans are male and the president is male ­maybe there's a bit of extra energy to look for a female candidate," he said. 
Faculty comnwnts on a new provost varied widely from remarks on candidates' aea­demic backgrounds to mana­gerial qualities, with several senators suggesting that the new provost possess a back-

ND monitors Pontiff's condition 
Priests, faculty debate whether Pope should resign franz position 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
N<·ws Writer 
As l'opn .John Paul II reeovnrs from mnnrgency surgery in a hospital in Home, tho world is wondering how much longer his 27-year papacy will last. At Notre Damn, prit~sts have nxprnsst~d conr.Prn for the popn and a nmssuring faith that God will provide. 
Fatlwr Paul Doyle, rnctor of Dillon lfall. admitted that the pope's situation is eomplicatml, and that hoth sides -those that lwlinve the S4-year-old pontiff should step down, and those convinced he should serve until his death -are legitimate. 

In a nation where the eldorly arn ol'tnn separatnd from socie­ty in nursing homes and assist­ed living facilities, Doyle notnd the importance of allowing an aged pope to eontinue in his position and remain leader of the Church. 
"When someone like the popi1 is allowed to remain at eentPr stagt'l for so long, it is a commentary on how quickly tho rest of us shun the elderly to tho margins," Doyle said. 
Still, he noted, if age croatos a snvore hindrance on tho popn's ability to fullill his role, tlwn resignation should be con­sidered. 
"I tnnd to think it might be good at some point for a pope to bneome emnritus, so to speak, so someone morn vigor­ous health-wise can lead tho llock," Doyle said. 
However, Father  Steele,  AP  
Pope John Paul II offers a blessing to a sick man Feb. 11 out­ 
see POPE/page 4  side St. Peter's Basilica In Rome.  


Physics professors garner top fellowships 
Research focuses on technology, properties 
By KATIE PERRY N<·w, Writer 
llning nauwd an honorary fel­low of a prestigious scientific society dons not n~quirn rocket sdnnen, hut -as three Notrn Dame professors found -it dtu~s entail extraordinary con­tributions to thn linld of physies. 
Distinguished physi<:s groups the t\mnri<:an Physical Society lt\I'S) and thn lnstitutn of Physics ll<lP) have recognized throe Notre Dame professors with honorary fellowships. lkaros Bigi and Malgorzata 

. ' ' 
Dobrowolska-Furdyna were named APS fellows . .Jacek Furdyna, a physics professor, was appointed an honorary fel­low of the 
lOP. 
/\ceording to thn /\PS Wnb site,' tho distinction honors thoso who have furthornd the 


f'i eI d oI' b..:.:.=J~~*m!i!IIIIIR~ p h y s i c s Blgl through either personal rt~seareh proj­ects or through their contribu­tions to the fusion of physics with technology. 
Bigi, a professor of theoretical high-energy physics, was recog­nized for his research ideas that 
lead to innovative ways to explore physics beyond the standard energy model, accord­ing to a University press release. 
"I consider myself extremf1ly Iucky to live at a time when certain thoughts could bn thought and 


e e r t a i n Dobrowolska­experimental Furdyna achieve­ments became possible," Bigi said of his experience in research. "I am unashamedly a theorist, but what makes physies so truly exciting to me is that in the nnd experiment has to provide the verdict." 
According to Gilroy, the APS honored Dobrowolska-Furdyna for her inno­
vative studies in the role of electron spin in optical transitions in semiconduc­tor com­pounds. 
"It is 


always niee Furdyna to realize that our work is being noticed," Dobrowolska-Furdyna said. "This roeognition pleases me because it is also a complement to my collaborators and that of 
that it is an empirical science, see FELLOWS/page 4 
'·' 
ground in the sdeneos. llateh served as a history professor at Notre Dame before bocom­ing provost. 
Other senators said tho new provost should be attuned to advancing Notre Dame's aea­demie goals as well as rnmain­ing true to its history and iden­tity, particularly as a Catholic institution. 

"Whoover we hire as a new provost neods to havo the abil­ity to articulato thn role, tho mission, thn plaeo of a univer­sity like Notro Dame in our soeiety," said aeademie alTairs committee ehair .John Hobinson. 
Faculty also dted the ability 
see FACULTY/page 4 

Ticket lotto today for Bush visit 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assis1an1 News Editor 
The Student Union Board has announe11d that it has 200 stu­dent tickets available for President Gnorgn W. Bush's talk on Soeial Se1~urity that will take place Friday at Notn1 Damn's Joyen Cnnter. 
Thn tie.knts will b1~ distrib­uted to Notrn Damn undnr­graduate and graduat11 stu­dents today from 3 p.m. to S through a lott11ry systnm, SUB said in a prnss rfllnasn. Students may entPr tho lottnry at thn Dooley Boom on the first floor of thn LaFortune Student Center. 
"Each student will bt~ allowed to bring two Notre Dame stu­dent lidontilication cards! to bn swiped for which two lottery tieknts will be given," the press release said. "Valid Notre Dame student Iidtmtifieation cards! can only be swiped once." 
Following the doso of the lot­tl~ry, 100 winning lottery tiek­ets will be selnctnd. Eaeh win­ner will be awardml two ticknts to tho event. The 100 winning numbnrs will be posted by S 
a.m. Thursday outside tlw SUB oflice, 201 LaFortune. 
;\ studnnt holding a winning ticket numbnr must bring the winning number and his Notn1 Damn idnntifieation card to the LaFortune Box Oflieo. In ordnr to reeeive a pair of tkknts, tlw winning student's guest -the user of the second tiekPL to tlw evnnt -must also he presnnl with his identification card, said Jimmy Flaherty, SUB man­ager. 
see LOTTERY/page 4 

~2----­
INSIDE COLUMN 


Secret lovers 

So while sitting down to write this column, a strange song began to play on my playlist. I started jamming to Atlantic Starr's "Secret Lovers." I listened to the lyrics and wondered about secret Lukas Mendoza 
lovers. 
What does it really mean? photographer And I don't want to get into that dirty connotation that secret lovers mean someone is cheating on someone else. No no, that's not what I'm going for. No one is cheating on anyone. Well, at least we hope not. Right? 
Anyway, secret lovers are those who don't want anyone to know 
what is going on. Sure there are a few people who have to know some things. 
People like your roommates. Its hard to sneak around without them finding out. You live with them, they pretty much have to know everything about you. 
So besides roommates, no one knows what is going on with two people. Maybe your parents, because they like to know that kind of stuff too. But they are a good leak, no one will know. We 
can only hope. 
So why be secret lovers? You don't want people to know because you might face opposition from dif­ferent forces. Friends of your 
secret love may not like you and wouldn't approve. The ex-es may find out and come looking for you, and it won't be to congratulate you. 
Others may feel only they are good enough for your secret love, so if they find out anything you hurt that friendship. Many factors go into it. 
The positives of it: people won't know and you won't lose friends. In the long run, people can become accustomed to your relationship and then you can spring it on them. 
The exchange: Yeah, we are dat­ing. What? How long? Oh, for about 5 months now. No way! See, it becomes easy. You also don't have to worry about what other people will say. Besides, who really wants to hear what this person should or should not be doing. Hight? Their business is 
just that, their business. 
A few negatives too: certain situ­ations can arose suspicions. Parties, outings or anything that involves beverages and the two secret lovers together. Not a good mix, and it may be necessary to come with a chaperone. Someone who knows something but not the whole thing to make sure nothing happens between the two lovers. 
So secret lovers may be good or not, but it is up to you to decide if you want it or not. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Lukas Mendoza at mmendoza4@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and strives for rhe highesr standards ofjournal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a misrake, please conracr us ar 631-4541 so we can correcr our error. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 2, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD STUDY ABROAD ANYWHERE, WHERE WOULD IT BE AND WHY? 




booyahkasha!" world." 

RICHARD FRIEDMANfThe Observer 

Students fold "Gay? Fine by Me" T-shirts Tuesday night in O'Shaughnessy Hall for gay, lesbian, bisexual and queer awareness week. 
OFFBEAT 
Enormous lobster donated to Pittsburgh Zoo 
PITTSBURGH -l-Ie could be older than Warner Bros. studio, General Motors, the Boy Scouts and the states of Arizona and New Mexico. He could have survived two world wars and Prohibition. He could have been dinner. 
He's Bubba, a 22-pound leviathan of a lobster pulled from the waters off Nantucket, Mass., and shipped to a Pittsburgh fish market. The lobster has been kept in a tank near a fish counter in Wholey's Market since Thursday while owner Bob Wholey tried to figure out what to do with it. 

"It is overwhelming," Wholey said. "If you see it, you will never forget it. Customers are just in awe." 
On Tuesday, Wholey gave the lobster to the Pittsburgh Zoo & PPG Aquarium, which will send him to an aquarium at a Ripley's Believe It or Not museum. 
Teachers refuse to assign homework 
BERKELEY, Calif. ­Students in the Berkeley school district aren't get­ting written homework assignments · because teachers are refusing to grade work on their own time after two years with­out a pay raise. 
So far, a black history event had to be canceled and parents had to staff a middle-school science fair because teachers are stick­ing strictly to the hours they're contracted to work. 
"Teachers do a lot with a little. All of a sudden, a lot of things that they do are just gone. It's demoraliz­ing," said Rachel Baker, who has a son in kinder­garten. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


time ofyear. " 
IN BRIEF 

ProHealth will conduct blood pressure and body fat screenings from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. today in the Grace Hall lobby. The wellness assessments are available to all NO faculty and staff. No appointment is necessary. 
There will be a panel dis­cussion today titled "National Debate on the Death Penalty" at 4:15 p.m. in the llesburgh Center audi­torium. The panel will fea­ture former Illinois death row inmate Madison 1-lobley and Bill Pelke, president of the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. 
French poet Emmanual Moses will read excerpts from "Last News of Mr. Nobody" tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Students in the department of film, television and theatre will perform a production of "The Laramie Project" this evening at 7:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. The per­formance is part of the Spring ArtsFest and has a theme of tolerance and reconcoiliation. 
The Higgins Labor Research Center is sponsoring a view­ing of the film "On the Waterfront" Thursday at 4 p.m. in C-1 00 Hesburgh Center. 
The women's lacrosse team faces Northwestern Thursday at 4:30 p.m. at the Moose Krause Field. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

32 21 


33 23 

Matt Buckle  Aaron Laviana  Jaun Pablo Lauz  Josh Pasquesi  Alex French  Matt Schaefer  
sophomore St. Edward's  sophomore Siegfried  sophomore Zahm  sophomore Morrissey  sophomore O'Neill  sophomore Zahm  
"Jamaica, have class right on the beach,  "Egypt, to play with the mummies.  "Hong Kong, the most romantic city in the  "/ hear Iraq is nice this time of year.  "France, just because it seems right. "  "/hear Pasquerilla East is nice this  

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
1.&.1 
:::c lei: 
1.&.1
:: 
_, 
<C 
(,) 

0 
HIGH 28
..... 
LOW 15 

HIGH LOW 


32 22 

HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 47 I 28 Boston 36 I 22 Chicago 30 I 14 Denver 51 I 24 Houston 65 I 51 Los Angeles 681 52 Minneapolis 20 14 New York 36 I 26 Philadelphia 38 I 26 Phoenix 71 I 52 Seattle 54 I 42 St. Louis 37 I 19 Tampa 68 146 Washington 40 128 
'·' 



r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, March 2, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 3 

Students confirlll abroad plans 
SUHIEN[JRA!Cfhe Observer 

Students hoping to travel abroad next year gather for an information session in DeBartolo Hall Tuesday evening. Deadlines for some of the programs have been extended. 
Hy JOHN EVERETT 
News Writer 
N!Htrly all of tlw Notre Dame sophomores recnntly accepted to orw of the numerous study abroad programs ofl'en~d by the Univnrsity sdzed their opportuni­ty and confirrnnd they will enroll to study intnrnationally next year. 
Although the International Study of1icn did not have exact figun~s. tlwy estimated only two or three ac1~epted applkanl'i p1~r program did not confirm. 
Those who worn accepted into proJ.,rrams rwndnd to eonfirm their intention of going abroad last week. 
St.udnnl'i who w1m~ not aeeept­nd to onn of tlw Notre Damn pro­grams won~ nneouragnd to seek otlwr options to spend a snrnester abroad. 
Thomas Bognnsehild, director or intnrnational study programs, said his dnpartrnent advisns Notrn Damn studnnL'i to apply to one of tho Saint Mary's study abroad programs, though tlw College dons not have dnstinations in all of tlw rountrins that Notrn Dame dons. will apply to travel abroad Further, in those eountries in · through Saint Mary's. 
which both institutions do main­tain programs, they are usually in dillimmt dties. For instance, the Notre Dame Ireland program is based in Dublin whereas the Saint Mary's program is in Maynooth. 
Sophomore Miehanl Freneh is currently is such a situation. Freneh applied for the Notre Dame pro~-,rram in Toledo, Spain, but was dnnind. lie is now trying to find other ways to get to Spain, but is having trouble with the technkalitios. 
"To go through another univer­sity's program you need a leave of absence, and they only have 16 loaves for the whole school," Freneh said. "Plus, if someone wants to go for a full year, that takes up two lr.aves of absence. Tlwre just arnn 't nnough." 
llnalso said that he was trying to aequirn a leave of absence as opposed to going through Saint Mary's because he would rather go to Tolodo than to Seville, where the womnn's eollegc main­tains its program. If he eannot get a lr.avo of absnncc, however, he 
Bogenschild had further advice for those studenl'i who arcn't so specific on where they wish to study. 
"There are slots still in Tokyo; you don't even have to speak Japanese and you can spend a semester in Tokyo," Bogenschild said. 
But Tokyo is just one exampln. Many programs have extended their applieation deadlines lor the 2006 spring semester abroad to May 1. These include Athens, Beijing, Berlin, Cairo, Monterrey and Puebla, Mexico, Hio de Janeiro, Santiago, Chile and Shanghai. 
Bogensehild said the extension was not at all unusual. 
"We do it nvnry year," he said. 
Bogenschild did not lhresee this extension having any drastie etlfJcL<; on either the students who have already been accepted or those who will be accepted some­time after May 1. 
John Everett at jeverett@nd.eduedu 

Notre Dame 

Mendoza to receive nevv progra111 director 
Harvey to serve as head of MSA Program 
Special to the Observer 

Thomas .1. Harvey has bonn appointed dirnetor of the Master of Scinnt~n in Administration (MSA) Program in tho Collngn of Business. 
Harvey most recently served as senior vice-president of the member serviee division at the Alliance for Children and 
Families in ''Tom's experience, human r·esource 
Milwaukee. lie network, energy management, also taught in a com m u n ieations,
and vision will be a
certificate pro­and ethics, all tai­gram on non­tremendous asset lored for the not­profit manage­for the M.S'A for-profit seetor. ment for tlH1 llarvey, who
Program ... " 
University of has hnld a variety Wisconsin at of professional Green Bay. Carolyn Y. Woo and soda! snrvicn "Tom's expe­dean positions for 3!i 
rience,  net­ 
work,  energy,  
and vision will be  a  tremen­ 
dous  asset  for  the  MSA  

Program and for efforts of the College of Business and Notre Dame to serve the needs of the nonprofit sector," said Carolyn Y. Woo, Martin .I. 
Professor to deliver distinguished lecture 
Special to the Observer 

Nancy Folbre, professor of economics at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, will deliver the Provost's Distinguished Women's Lecture at 7 p.m. March 14 in 126 DeBartolo llall. 
Titled "The Great Imaginary Strike of Parents and Other Care Workers: An Economic Scenario," the loc­ture is free and open to the public. 
An internationally recog­nized scholar in the area of 
Cillnn Dean of llw College. 
Established in I 1)!i4, tlw MSA program is designed lo hone tho administrative ll'ad­nrship skills of people work­ing in sodaI snrvien organiza­tions. The program was restructured in 200 I to indudo a core eurric~ulum of courses on grant. writing. development. l'inandal rnan­agmnent. markPl­ing, accounting, 
ynars, served as 
prosidnnt of Catholic Charities USA from 1982 to 1992. In 200:~. tho Council on Soeial Work Education nanwd Harvey one of the !il leaders in the field of social work during tho past !iO years. 
feminist economies and tho economics of earing labor, Folbrn is president of the International Association for Feminist Economies. She is a recipient of a Ma<~Arthur Foundation Fellowship, a grant from the National Science Foundation, and a post-doctoral fellowship from Yale University. She has been a consultant to the International Labor Ol'f"icn, tho World Bank, the Population Council, and the Hoyal Swedish Academy of Science. 


Disability Awareness Month 
March 2005 

Sujeet Desai will be playing the violin, clarinet and piano. He graduated from the Berkshire Music Academy and was born with Down syndrome. ?p.m. Washington Hall, Free Admission 
Saturday, 3/19 Come to the Best Buddies Friendship Games and interact with children and adults with special needs. 12 noon-2p.m. Logan Center Gym 


Monday, 3/21 Head Football Coach Charlie Weis, 9p.m. DeBartolo 102 Coach Weis will be speaking about disability awareness. 
Tuesday, 3/29 Students with Disabilities Discussion, 8p.m. Legends 
www.nd.edu/-bbuddies 
y\otGhee 

"•"~ "oP And Cheerleader Tryouts 2005 
Information Meeting March 15@ 5:30 p.m. Gym 2 (above Gate 10 of the Joyce Center). All are welcome -come see what cheerleading at Notre Dame is all about. ... 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 2, 2005 
"I think he is making a faith the stability he brought to a statement as far as that God Church that was emerging

Pope 

will provide," Steele said. from great changes after "Perhaps he is making a state­Vatican II.
continued from pagel 

ment about the dignity of life in "There was a sense [in the 
director of Theology on Tap, the midst of suffering in a par­Church] that anything could said he has great faith in the ticular time when euthanasia is happen. The church had pontiff, who has managed to being discussed and made legal changed enormously and there defy predic.tions of impending in the U.S. and Europe." was a presumption that that death for many years. If history is any indication, might continue. But instead he 
"It seems people have bnen the pope will likely not resign. has brought us back·to the predicting his demisn for years Celestine V was the last pope to basics," Steele said. and years. I heard the pope resign, and that was in 1294. Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, wasn't going to live through the Father Hobert Dowd, profes­one of the few pnople allowed year back in the 80s," Steele sor of political science, is also to see the pope while he has said. "I don't think we can convinced that the pope will been hospitalized, announced assume he will step down." remain in his position, god will­Monday that the pope has 
And. in Steele's opinion, the ing. started speaking again and has pope has no intention of doing "I would say that l think the resumed making decisions so. In fad, Steele believes, the pope will remain as pope until regarding the Church, though pope will steadfastly carry on his death. I don't think he he still remains hospitalized. demonstrating the power of intends on resigning," Dowd faith and the need for respect said. Contact Mary Kate Malone at for life at all ages. Steele praised the pope for mmalone3@nd.edu 
but faculty comments on made by associate provost potential candidates would be Dennis Jacobs to senate in 
ior Eileen Varga said. "I think

Faculty 
Lottery 

I'll definitely try to get tickets." choice. The search committee until at least one additional 
used to determine a final November. will remain stalled 
O'Neill Freshman Eric
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 

Hoffman, on the other hand, to foster a strong relation­consider individuals inside and ward, Brandenberger said. 
has said previously that it will faculty member comes for­
said he was intrigued by the ship with Notre Dame's profes­outside of the University and + The student affairs com­
"Due to the secure nature of topic. sors as a key characteristic of may not name a new provost mittee discussed potential 
the event," the press release ''I'd like to go if I weren't a new provost. until the fall 2005 semester. revisions to the handling of 
said, "the tickets for admission leaving earlier [on Friday]," he "They have to communicate In other Faculty Senate honor code violations pro­
to the event on Friday will be said. ''I'd like to learn more well with an increasingly wide news: posed by the Academic 
tied to the names on the Notre about how he's trying to imple­constituency," said Senate + Brandenberger said he Council. Brandenberger said 
Dame student [identification ment his Social Security poli­chair Seth Brown. "One of the was still searching for addi­the Council will consider 
cards]." cy." things that I think faculty tional faculty to serve on the allowing faculty to directly 
Flaherty said the Student Freshman Sara Snider said appreciate is direct communi­student and faculty committee determine penalties in cheat­
Activities Office called him at she was "definitely interest,ed" cation -that goes a long way tasked with developing a ing cases, rather than for­
around 6 p.m. Tuesday to in lining up for tickets, and that toward softening the blows of mechanism for students to warding them to departmental 
inform him of the tickets, and she felt it was a good opportu­unfavorable decisions." provide information to other honor code committees. 
SUB immediately sprang into nity for the student body. Jenkins told senators that all students about their courses. 
action, drafting a press release "As a student and part of this search committee delibera­The committee, which Contact Teresa Fralish at 
and working to "get the infor­community, if you're going to tions must remain confidential stemmed from a proposal tfralish@nd.edu 
mation disseminated to stu­go to any event this year, this dents through class council re­would be it," she said. "If you mail lists]." have the ability to see the pres­
"SUB felt this would be an ident speak, no matter what excellent opportunity for Notre your politieal views are, I'd sayof physics." including 15 current Notre 
Dame students," he said, "and it's something you should do." Furdyna, a professor of con­Dame physicists -who are 
wanted to facilitate the distri­Varga agreed, and said she densed matter physics was elected by the society as fel­

Fellows 

bution of tickets for the student believed such an event would continued from page 1 acknowledged for his overall lows. 
body." have an impact on any stu­work within the field of physics, Furdyna also enters a highly­
Democratic and Republican dent's life. course includes all my gradu­according to the Notre Dame selective group. According to 
students alike said they are "I would think the majority of ate students. It also pleases me press release. Furdyna studies lOG bylaws listed on the 
planning on entering the lottery students would want to go see because it increases the visibili­new semiconducting com­Institute's Web site, the total 
-or that they would enter, if the president in person," she ty of the physics department." pounds and the subsequent number of fellows may not 
their spring break plans didn't said. "It's an event you'dAccording to the lOP Web analysis of their physical prop­exceed 30. 
conflict. remember throughout your
site, the United Kingdom-based erties. 

"I think I'd be interested in lifetime." organization selects fellows Bigi and Pobrowolska­
going to the event, although I'm based on their "exceptionally Furdyna join the half of one­Contact Katie Perry at 
not fascinated by the topic of Contact Eileen Duffy at important services in the field percent of APS members -kperry5@nd.edu 
Social Security," Pangborn jun-eduffy 1 @nd.edu 

~DEBARTOLO 
~ PERfORMING AR:fS CENTER 
SPRING 

ARTSfest 

TWO WEEKS OF MUSIC, FILM, THEATRE, AND DISCUSSION THE NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF FILM, TElEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 
THE lARAMIE PROJEO DEAD MAN WALKING BY MOlSEs KAUfMAN DIRECTED BY ANTON JUAN 
DEClO MAINSTAGE THEATRE 
FEBRUARY 22 ..,. MARCH 3 

TICKETS $12,$10 FACUlTY/STAFF,SlO SENIORS, .S8~iS1llDENTS .. The1998 murder of Matthew Shejl<ltd hos become oo imn Of intderoru:tt In respoose to the brutol ev!llll The iotomie Fro¢ roptweslim turbu~!!nt 
emoli005 or the resitleots nf Ull:umie, Wyoo'ling, hounted l)y !he reality. !hot collectively they hod raised the soos who could show sucll hate; tt is· ustorv of of !JfC!lt wrlness, gH:ot beooty und, pemaps mostlmportontfy, 
11eat revelations. 

FOR TICKETS CALL THE TICKET OfFICE AT 574.631.2800 VISIT HTTP://PERFORMINGARTS.ND:EDU/ARTSFESISHTMl. 

s 
Poker Chi Texas Hr••~"~•"m from $199.97 

Poker Tables from $299.00 
Rentals Available 
large Selection of Game Tables, Supplies and Table Toppers. S0510 St. Rd. 933N • South Bend 


574-272-1617 





ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, March 2, 2005 CoMP.ILED FROM TI··IE OBSERVER'S wrRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Drugs threaten Afghan democracy 
VII~NNA, Austr·ia -Drug traffieking l h n~ ale n s l o under min o stabiIi t y in Afghanistan and hinder developmont in Iraq as tlw two countries attempt to mnerge from ronflid and l'orge l'unctioning dmnocracies, a key U.N. drug control body warned in a n~porl rnlnasml Wndnnsday. 
ThP International Narcoties Control Board said drug production in Afghanistan was so widnsprnad it "has bnconw a severe throat to this nnw dnmornu~y. as well as the stability and economie n~rovnry of' the country as a whoh~." 
Drug production in Afghanistan readwd a rnrord lnvnl in 2004, defying dl'orts to curb pmdurtion. 
"We an~ nxpnrt.ing that tho international c·ommunity lwlp Al'ghanistan ... so that the issun can he rorrndnd lwl'orn it's too late and Al'ghanistan bncomns a narcotic state," llamid c;Jwdsn, prc~sidnnt of Uw Vienna­based hoard, told rc'J>ortnrs Ttwsda] "Once~ it bnconws a narcotic~ state. the ruin of' tlw law, the dnnHH'.racy, everything, will go out of' tho window." 
Chinese suburb leveled in seizure 
WUXI, China -For Tang Yulan and his neighbors, China's communist revolution snmns to lw moving in rcwerse. 
"That once was a very nien housn; now look at it," says Tang, a litrnwr until most ol' his vil­lage of llongq iao, a suburb of the laknsido eastern Chinese city ol' Wuxi, was reduced to rubble~ to make way li>r urban spread. 
"This land was inhmitc~d from our aneestors, gnnoration al'ter gmwration," said Tang, a robust. soll-spoknn hX-year-old. "But they just auctioned it otr without even notifying us. The local govPrnnwnt isn't obeying the laws or national policy." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Bush frustrated with Congress 
WASIIINCTON -President Bush on Tuesday dismissed criticism that his plan to steer public morwy to religious charities might discriminate against people who did not share~ tlwir helinl's, saying those groups should have an "all drunks are weleonw" policy. 
Speaking to morn than 250 rc~ligious lead­ers invited by tlw White~ I louse, Bush vented his frustration that Congress has not approved t.lw idea he first oiTnrnd soon after hn took ol'licn to lnt rnligious charities spc~nd taxpayc~r money. 
In a spncwh at a Washington hotel, Bush look on what he described as a government c~ulturn "unfriendly" to religious groups. 
"Charitable~ dwiw is sonwthing I've sup­portPd PVPry year·. and nvcwy year it's got sturk." Bush said. "Tiwrn's kind of a consis­tent pattc~rn there~." 


Drivers' cell phone use increasing 
WASIIINC;TC>N -Morn people than ever arn driving under the influnnen of their enll phonc~s. according to a survey rnlnased Tuesday hy the National llighway Traff'ic Safety Administration. 
Tlw survey showed X percent of' drivnrs, or 

1.2 rnillion pnopln, wnm using hand-hnld or handsfrnn r.c.JI phonns during daylight hours last yPar, a 50 pt'rcnnt incrPaSe since 2002 and a I00 pPrc~c'nt rise in four years. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Death row inmate shows remorse 
MICIIIC;AN CITY. Ind. -A man facing PXncution latc~r this month said in a death row intnrvinw lw has changed sincn hn murdPrPd an Evansvilln c·oupln and thnir two rhildrPn 25 yPars ago and dons not wanl to he r«'mnmlwrPd as a "raving man­
iac." 
"I would likP p«'opln to know I'm rational. I'm not a raving maniac," Donald Hay Wallarn told Indianapolis tPIPvision station WTIII! in an inl«'rviPw broadcast Tuesday. 
URUGUAY 

First socialist leader sworn in 
President-elect Vazquez promises to help the poor rebound from 2002 depression 
Associated Press 
MONTEVIDEO -A doe­tor took oflicn as Uruguay's first socialist president Tuesday, joining tho ranks of left-loaning leaders in Latin America, now six in all. governing a lll<\jority of the region's people with a cautious approach to U.S.­backed free-market poli­cies. 
In one of his first ollieial aets, Tabare Vazquez n~storcd full diplomatic tins with communist Cuba, mor~ than two years aller a diplomatic row divided the countries. 
Thousands of Urugu­ayans, many waving flags and chanting "Ur-u-guay!" filled Montevideo's streets for the inauguration of Vazquez, a 65-ynar-old can­cor specialist whoso swear­ing-in ended more than 170 years of power by two mod­erate parties. 
Vazquez, elected Oct. 31 to replace Jorge Batlle, is part of a reinvorgorated, but far less ideological, left­ist movement in Latin America whoso leaders have come to power amid economie turmoil. lin took the oath of office for his five-year term with many of' South America's new gen­eration of leftists leaders looking on. 
"I have not come alone," Vazquez said at the packed ceremony at Congress. "I take office as president of' the republic with the sup­port of hundreds of thou­sands of compatriots who expressed their democratic wishes last Oct. 31 for a better country for all Uruguayans." 
Brazil's Luiz lnaeio Lula da Silva, Argentina's Nestor Kirchner and Chile's Hicardo Lagos all looked on as the crowd cheered. 
Vazquez climbed into an antique ear to leave thn eeremony, then jumped onto the bark of a pickup truck, blowing kisses to a erowd of' thousands who turned out for a strnnt lies­ta. 

AP Celebration in the streets of Montevideo, Uruguay, Tuesday was In honor of Tabare Vazquez's inauguration. Vazquez is the country's first socialist leader. 
Confetti flew and occa­sional fireworks boomed overhead as his motorcade slowly made its way to the presidential offices. 
Blue-and-white Uru­guayan flags emblazoned with their signature sun in the upper left corner hung from the balconies of' many apartment buildings, where people craned to get a glimpsn of their nnw leader. 
Carpenter llugo Folena, 40, waved the red-white­and-blue flag of Vazquez's Broad Front coalition and smiled as he talked of his hopes for tlw new presi­dent. 
''I'm praying this means we will nventually have a better Uruguay," he said. "One whnre thorn is better public health, better public education and work oppor­tunities fi>r everyone." 
Uruguay, long one of Latin America's most stable economies, is dirnbing out of a 2002 depression in which the economy shrank by 11 percent. 
The upheaval loft ono of every three Uruguayans below the poverty line _ a blow to a country where generous soeial benefits had for years assured one of the region's highest living standards. 
Vazquez's victory brokn a long-running hold on power by the Colorado and National parties, which alternately controlled tho prnsidm1ey for morn than 170 years. Their dominanee was interrupted occasional­ly by military rule, most recently during tlw coun­try's 1973-M dietatorship. 
During tho campaign, Vazquez pledged to lwlp tlw poor, and his message rns­onatod with voters incrnas­ingly skeptical of frnn-mar­knt policies being touted by Washington as tlw renwdy for the region's nconom ie ills. 
While Vazquez has vowed to pursue modoratn poli­eies, he has promised to strcmgthnn the country's tins with neighbors Argentina and Brazil. 
Over tlw last dnradn, many South Anw rican c~ountrins adopted fren­marknt reforms, opening their nconomies and priva­tizing state~ industl'ins, only to sen their economies slow to a grind. 



Identity theft investigations costly 
Associated Press 

SACHAMENTO. Calif. -Law enforcenwnt officials attnnding tlw state's first summit on idnntity tlwft asked Monday for morn money to combat the erime in California, the only statn believed to have more than 
I million vktims last ynar. 

Authoritins sought assistanen from politicians, businesses and consumer advocates in their qunst to prevent identity tlwl't and crack down on thieves. 
"Thern's no way we in law nnforce­mnnt ean do it alone," said Jan Scully, Sacramento County distric:t attornny. 
ShnrifTs, legislators, postal workers and eonsumer watchdogs want to inernase funding for prosncutors and for five siatn task l'orcns dedicated to idnntity theft. Current funding is about $12.4 million per year. 
Only about 11 percent of eases statnwide are solved, Scully said. 
For example, the Los Angnlns County Shcwil'f Departmnnt had more than 20.000 identity theft eases last year. said .Jonathan Fairtlough, a c~ounty prosneutor. Tlw county prose­cuted only about 220 casos. hn said. 
California's high numbers could bn partly tlw result of' rnporting rnquire­nwnts in statn legislation designed to damp down on identity thel't. nxperts said. 
In July 2()(1:{, California hneanw tlw first state to rPquire companins to notify consumnrs whnrwver sncurity brnadws nxposn personal data. In tlw most ogrngious c:asns, exPcutivos must also alert. rwws organizations and issue news rcdnases ahout sPru­rity failures. 
In addition, California is tlw only state wlwre consumers r.an order a "crc~dit frcH'ze" with major c-rcHiit hurc~aus. A frc~Pzn rPquirc~s IPIHI«'rs. rntaiiPrs, utilities and othnr businnss­ns to got special accC'ss to r.rc~dit rc~ports through a PIN-based systmn and hnlps prevnnt impostors from gntting any new loans and cTPdit. 
page 6 

Serial killer charged with murdering ten 
Former scout leader attends hearing via video 
Associated Press 
WICIIITA, Kan. -Dennis Rader, the churchgoing family man and Cub Scout leader accused of leading a double life as the BTK serial killer, was charged Tuesday with 1 0 counts of first-degme murder. 
Hader made his first court appearance by videoconference from his jail cell. During the brief hearing, Hader stood behind a podium, his hands folded at times, at others leafing through a copy of the charges against him. He told the judge he is married and was employed with the city of Park City, and said "Thank you, sir" at the end of the hearing. 
About a dozen family mem­bers of victims were in the courtroom, but they did not speak to reporters. Rader was accompanied by a temporary attorney, and the judge appoint­ed the state's public defender office to represent him. 
The BTK killer, whose nick­name stands for "Bind, Torture, Kill," was suspected of eight deaths beginning in 197 4, but authorities said they had linked two additional victims to the serial killer. 
It appears unlikely Rader will face the death penalty. He has yet to be charged with a slaying that occurred after 1994, when Kansas passed its capital pun­ishment law. Additionally, the Kansas Supreme Court ruled that law unconstitutional in December over a provision on how juries weigh evidence for and against execution. 
Authorities have declined to say what led them to the 59­year-old Rader, a married father of two, scout leader and active member of a Lutheran church. 
However, there were indica­tions a computer disk BTK sent to the television station KSAS provided a key piece of evi­dence that led police to Rader. 
Scott Hobertson. an assign­ment editor for the station that produces KSAS' news broad­cast, told The Associated Press a package the station received Feb. 16 contained the disk as well jewelry that may have been from one of the victims. 

Pastor Michael Clark of Christ Lutheran Church -Rader's church -also said police asked him for a list of people who had access to the church computer. On Friday, he provided 10 or 15 names, including Hader's, he said. 
Rader has asked for Clark to visit him in jail, but he hasn't been able to arrange a meeting, the pastor said. 
Meanwhile, investigators with the Sedgwick County Sheriff's Office spent another day using metal detectors along a road in Park City. Sheriff Gary Steed said they are looking for evi­dence connected to new infor­mation developed by the task force investigating the BTK killings. He declined to specify the information. 
New details of the investiga­tion also emerged from Michigan. The Wichita Eagle and The Daily Oakland Press of Pontiac, Mich., reported Tuesday that FBI agents had visited the Farmington, Mich., home of Rader's 26-year-old daughter, Kerri, on Friday to get a DNA sample. 
The timing indicated she was not visited until after her father had been arrested that same day in Kansas, the Eagle said, suggesting her DNA helped con­firm his identity but was not the original break in the case as some initial reports had sug­gested. 
Charles Nebus, police chief in Farmington, said the FBI told him they were conducting an interview Friday in the city in connection with the BTK case. Nebus told The Associated Press that he didn't tell the newspapers a DNA test was being conducted. 
Jeff Hader told The Wichita Eagle that no one in the family believes his older brother is the BTK serial killer. 

BOOK OF POE.'t'R.Y, MARCH 3, 2005, 7:00PM, HOSPITALITY ROOM, RECKIE.RS, SO~JTH DINING HALL 
·:·=··~;--~-..;,·.;;:;;:.n i:-~ , .... ~ ~--f<!E:_k-;rs~~ Wf~(l~~...;:: t»~~~~#AM. Ot:-tlA~-t~.lf:·t"·}¥ <:~t-· ·!f?.~fht-~~"'~ 
·3N•..,..-t:ny:.~-r'~' .;;.,~ J'~".r'f'$l'~. r.'<>-.$.-~t'·. 

----------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, March 2, 2005 
The Observer + NEWS 
HAITI 

Police pressured to regain trust 
Haitians fed up with brutality, fear violence of local authorities 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PHINCE -Out­gunned, undermanned and blamed for some of the coun­try's violence, Haitian police are under pressure to mend decades of mistrust before elections next fall that many people fear are destined for bloodshed. 
The United States and United Nations have repeat­edly tried and failed to build an evenhanded police force over the years, and offered help again last year after rebels ousted President Jean­Bertrand Aristide during a three-week revolt. 
But Haitians, who have seen a string of governments use the police as brutal enforcers, say officers still operate above the law, tar­geting opponents and using trigger-happy tactics. Violence has come in waves since September, with some 400 civilians and 25 police slain, according to the National Coalition for Haitian Rights and an Associated Press count. 
On Monday, five officers trying to block unarmed pro­testers escorted by U.N. peacekeepers fired tear gas, then bullets, into a crowd of hundreds. When the shooting ended, two men lay dead in the street. "Police could have hit us by shooting that way," a Brazilian peacekeeper com­plained. 
This time the victims were Aristide supporters marking the first anniversary of his flight .from Haiti with demands that he return from exile in South Africa. 
A little more than a year ago, police were shooting at demonstrators calling for Aristide's downfall. Former soldiers responded by lead­ing a revolt that ousted Aristide and left dozens of policemen dead or mutilated. Many officers abandoned 37,000 officers. 

Haitian police are also out­gunned. The officers, armed with new M-16 rifles, sawed­off shotguns and pistols, must patrol slums filled with Aristide supporters who often have better weapons that were looted during the upris­ing. 
Despite numerous tele­phone calls and a visit to the police headquarters over more than a week, The Associated 
their posts "Police could have Press was unable to and somn fled hit us by shooting get police com­
the country. manders to com­
that way."

U.N. civilian ment on the situa­police arrived tion. to find a Brazilian Violence has depleted and worsened since
peacekeeper
demoralized force. 
The U.S.-backed interim government fired 200 corrupt or inexperienced officers. But the annual U.S. human rights report released Tuesday said some of the remaining Haitian officers "were impli­cated in corruption, kidnap­ping and narcotics traffick­ing" and "committed human rights abuses" in 2004. 
Dan Moskaluk, a spokesman for the U.N. train­ing and support mission run by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, said there are only 2,000 to 3,000 offi­cers in Haiti, an impover­ished nation of 8 million peo­ple plagued by lawlessness. By contrast, New York, a city with a similar population but with far less crime, has about 

police fired on a 
group of Aristide supporters in September, killing two people. The next day, the bodies of three beheaded officers were found in a pro-Aristide slum. 
Civilians .blame police for the deaths of at least eight of 19 people shot to death since Friday in Port-au-Prince, the capital. 
Lt. Gen. Augusto 1-Ieleno Ribeiro, the Brazilian com­mander of the U.N. peace­keeping mission, confirmed that police killed six people Friday in Bel Air, a hotspot of Aristide militants where Monday's protest took place. Hesidents said police fired indiscriminately while peace­keepers stood by. Ileleno said no U.N. forces were involved in the raid. 


Call for Student Nominations 
The College ofScience 
invites student nominations for 
Kaneb Teaching Awards 

Take advantage of the opportunity to nominate your best professor in the College of Science for a Kaneb Teaching Award. 
Nomination forms may be found on the College of Science 

Return to 
webpage at: www.science.nd.edu or you may pick up a nomination form in the Dean's Office, 174 Hurley Hall 
Deadline for nomination is Friday, March 4 
· Sr. Kathleen Cannon, O.P., Associate Dean Dean's Office, College of Science 174 Hurley Hall 
. \. 

Wednesday, March 2, 2005 
Dow 


10,830.00 +63.77

}ones 

Up: 2,139  Same: 136  Down: Composite Volume: ~ 1,726,903,552  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&PSOO  I ,515.78 2,071.25 7,351.03 I ,210.41  +6.34 +19.53 +29.80 +6.XI  

NIKKEI(Tol<yo) II ,800.66 +20.13 FTSE IOO(L.Dndon) 5,000.50 +32.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CP (INTC) +2.63 +0.63 24.62 
SIRIUS SATELITTE R (SIRI) +-5.75 +0.32 5.89 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I(QQQQ) + 1.10 +0.41 37.63 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.48 +0.12 25.28 
BIOGEN IDEC INC (BIIB) +6.75 +2.61 41.26 

30-YEAR BOND +0.32 +0.15 47.21 
I0-YEAR NOTE +0.30 +0.13 43.72 

5-YEARNOTE +0.33 +0.13 40.08 
3-MONTH BILL +0.07 +0.02 26.92 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.07 51.68 
GOLD ($ffroy oz.) -3.70 436.90 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.53 89.38 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 04.6200 
EURO 0.7599 
POUND 0.5217 
CANADIAN$ 1.2431 

IN BRIEF 
Dollar's value gaining on Euro 
FHt\NKFUHT, Germany -The dollar rose against tho euro Tuesday amid mixed econom­ic rwws from tho United States. 
Tho ouro fell to $1.3183 in late New York trading from $1.3250 lato Monday. 
The dollar was mostly higher against other rivals. Tho British pound fell to $l.9201 from $1.1)220 lat1~ Monday, while the dollar bought I04.26 .Japaneso yen, down slightly from 
104.47 yon, 1.1654 Swiss francs, up from 1.1604. and 1.2415 Canadian dollars, up from 1.2:n2. 
The dollar's gains came as the Institute for Supply Management, a private research group, roportod that tho U.S. manufacturing sector grnw at a slowor pace in Fobruary than in tho previous month. 
Its indox nwasuring manufacturing activity dnclinod to 55.3 in February from a revised rnading of 56.4 in January. Still, that it rmnainod abovo 50 indicates that the seetor <~ontinund to grow last month, but at a slower pace. 
FTC offers free credit reports 
MINNI~t\I'OLIS -Sure, you forgot long ago about that dopartrm~nt store credit card you got for thn discount. But your !Tedit report has a nwrnory liko an elephant, an elephant that sorrwtinws rnakns mistakes and squish­~~s your crndit scorn undnrfoot. 
(;ntting a copy of that erndit report got eas­inr on Tunsday for Midwesterners, as free r.opies hncanw availablo for the asking. 
Tho Midwnstnrn statns added Tuosday aro thn sneond phasn of the Federal Trade Commission's rollout of thn service. It began in Dncernh1H' with Westnrn statns and will finish Snpt. I when tho Northeast is added. 
Tlw three major crndit bureaus have long lwnn requirnd to provido the reports upon rnqtwst. Sornn consunwrs eould get them for fnw, otlwrs had to pay a fen. l~ithnr way, the proeess r.ould be cumbersome. 
Now, rnports from all thren bureaus are availabln at https://www.annualereditre­port.r.om. Consurrwrs can gnt ono frnn report p11r year l'rorn nach agoncy, 1\quif'ax Inc., l·:xpnrian Information Solutions and Trans Union. 




THE OBSERVER 







USINESS 
page 7 
Enron audio tapes go public 
Accuntulation of evidence against energy corporation continues to build up 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Audio tapes made public Tuesday. indicate at least I ,500 con­versations in which traders employed by disgraeed enorgy giant Enron Corp. engaged in or diseuss1~d violations of federal regula­tions, a Fedora! Ennrgy Hegulatory Commission stall'nr says. 
Those tapes, ineluding some collected by a Washington state utility, may lwv1~ "only scratchnd tho surface" of potentially illegal activity by Enron during tlw Wnst Coast e1wrgy erunch of' 2000­2001. ·the FI\HC stall'er said in tostimony released Tuesday. 
The commnnt carne as the regulatory ageney released on its Web sito transcripts of thousands of hours of taped eonversa­tions involving Enron ener­gy traders. 
The tapes contain enough information that there is "sullieient public benefit to be garnered from further review" of the transeripts, which eould take thousands of hours to complete, said Patrick Crowley, an econo­mist in FEHC's office of administrative litigation. 

Crowley's comment ­and the release of the new transcripts -represent a owes. nature of the audio tapes eonsumers and tlw mass victory for the Snohomish Enron founder Kenneth as early as October 2001, public mugging that took County, Wash., Public Lay, former CEO Jeffrey writing in a memorandum place at the hands of Utility District, which has Skilling and chief account­that, "We have already Enron." pressed FEHC to transcribe ing offieer Richard Causey heard several conversa­FEHC spokesman Bryan thousands of hours or are scheduled to be tried tions that should not be Lee disputed Cantwell's phone conversations early next year on fraud produeed" in response to eomments, saying the corn­involving Enron traders. and eonspiraey charges. power market litigation. mission "will continue to be The utility district, based in The trial is expected to be Sen. Maria Cantwell, D­guidod by the facts and not Everett, Wash., about 30 the premier case to emerge Wash., called FEHC's deei­polities." ' miles north of Seattle, has from the Justice sion to review the tran­t\ spokesman for the spent about $200,000 to Department's investigation seripts an about-face, say­Snohomish Co. PUD also transcribe and review some of a rash of corporate scan­ing FEHC staff initially tried welcomed tho release of tapes in reeent months. dals that began with to exclude the tapes from the transcripts. 
The utility hopes to prove Ilouston-based Enron's evidenee. "Certainly it's an encour­that an exorbitant eontraet swift fall into bankruptcy "The fact this evidence aging sign in that federal it entered with Enron in after an accounting seandal almost fell through the regulators are taking a January 2001, at the height came to light in December cracks is not aeceptablo," much doser look at some or the crisis, should be con­2001. Cantwell said. "Federal of this evidence that we've sidered fraudulent because In testimony filed regulators shouldn't have long held is key to our case of Enron's manipulation, Tuesday, FERC staff cited to be embarrassed into and the plight of Western and that the utility should­new evidence in whieh doing their jobs. They're consumers as a whole," n't have to pay the $122 Enron's own lawyers recog­supposed to be the eops on Snohomish spokesman Neil million that Enron claims it nized the incriminating the beat, standing between Neroutsos said. 



Disablity puts a strain on families 
she leaves sehool. lie benefits. 
Associated Press 
In addition, the Krioschers plan to Many of the disabled qualify for 

NEW YOHK-Millions of Arneriean redo their will and set up a special governnwnt-sponsored care or train­parents struggle with the day-to-day needs trust to transfer their insur­ing programs. They also ean get responsibilities of' caring for physieal­ance and savings to eare for the chil­finaneial help through tho ly or rn1mtally disabled children, but dren after their deaths. Supplemental Security lnconw pro­often their biggost challenge is put­"I will die a happy person if I c~an gram, whieh provides a monthly ting tinaneial strategies in place to lind a way so they can live and be allowanen and gerwrally nnsut·os that ensure that the kids arn taken care happy and be productive, too," the disabled person is eligibln for of' as they all grow older. Christine Krieseher said. Kriescher, important Medicaid health benofits. 
For Christine and Donald Krieseher who is 42, added: "Putting things in But that assistaneo eould be cut oil' of New Franken, Wis., that has place gives you peace of mind." if parents or well-nwaning grandpar­meant getting guardianship papers The U.S. Census Bureau estimates ents givn a few thousand dollars to a in order as their son Niek, 19, who is that more than one in 10 t\rnerkans disabled grandchild, unwittingly severely n~tarded and sufl'ers from botwecn th1~ ages of 16 and 64 suf­making them ineligible for SSI and obsessive-eom pulsi vo diso rd or, fers from some physical, mental or health care because their assnts sur­approaches adulthood. t\nd they'll emotional impairment. Finding the pass the $2,000 limit, ac1~ording to neod a power of' attorney to help right services, and arranging future the t\HC of tho United States, a guide 20-year-old daughter Kandy, financial support, for them can be nat.ional organization based in Silver who has mild eognitive disabilities, tricky because parents ean't risk Spring, Md., for tho mentally and into new programs nnxt yoar when jeopardizing a disabled person's pub-developmentally disablnd. 
THE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Wednesday, March 2, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
The things they carry 
I~O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Somh Dining Hall, Nmre Oame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR  8USINFSS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
Ass·I; MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DFSIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulrer CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 ohservad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
{574) 631-4541 ohsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
{574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
{574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Maty's College. Edimrial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies of the administration of either ~titurion. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Edimr in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not neCessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters m the Edimr must be signed and must include contact information. · 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be direcied to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The; Oh~rvcr (USPS ';99 2-4000) is published Munday rhruugh Friday rxcept during \-"Xlltll and Vitca.~ion pc:rioW,. Asub~riptioi"IIO "l"hc ()~rver i& $100 for one academic year; $.S5 for ow: Kme8(c:r. 
·n1c Oh~rvt-r i~> publi~l~cd ~t: POSTMA>TER 

024 South Dining Hall Send addrc:.s cortretions w: 
Nom; Dame, rN 46~~6-0779 Tht"'Ohscrvcr 
Periodical postage paid ar Notre Dame I~O.Boxn9 
and .tddiwmal mailing nfficc:>. 024 Smuh Dining Hall 

Notf'C' Dame, IN 46556..0n9 
The Observer i1 a member of the Asscxiatl:!d Pret.li, Nl reproduction rights art resl:!rvcd. 
One of my favorite poems, "Incident" by Countee Cullen, charac­terizes the personal pains of racism for receivers of oppression. In the piece, the protagonist-a small eight-year-old black Kamaria bo~ -encounte~s ~ Porter 
white youth of simi­lar age on a Love in the Baltimore street. The Ruins white youth calls our protagonist the most pejorative term used against blacks without provoca­tion or discernable reason. Most potently, this brief poem ends with the speaker reflecting on the interaction: "I saw the whole of Baltimore, from May to December, of all the things that happened there, that's all that I remember." As Cullen expresses in verse, a single incident of racial oppression has the ability to over­shadow a person's perception of the world and of himself. 
The powerlessness felt by targets of any type of prejudice is debilitating and staggering. Language is crucial in this discussion. Our tone, manner and voice all communicate stereotypes and prejudice. Further, certain words -like the pejorative "n-word" from Cullen's poem -carry centuries of oppressive, violent and destructive baggage. I would like to consider the effect of these words on people of the oppressed groups. People who utter these discriminatory words have vari­ous motives, yet their use, whether maliciously or inadvertently, often results in degradation of the oppressed group. We lack, in the broader discourse of prejudice, a way to deconstruct systems of oppression through language, as well as a process of addressing the real feelings of dehumanization. The private pain of the oppressed is sacrificed and silenced as society endeavors to make racism, sexism and heterosexism unimportant and invisible through political correctness or ignorance. 
I have heard many stories of Notre Dame students suffering this private pain of prejudice. While some would have us believe we are beyond the days of racial subjugation, people still find themselves in isolated situations due to derogatory words. In my expe­rience, two of my worst days here have been a result of such language usc. As a sophomore, someone from my residence staff flippantly insinuat­ed I thought myself light enough to "pass" for white. As a light-skinned black person, passing and racial iden­tity have played big parts in my devel­opment. During that incident in my dorm, I felt betrayed by Notre Dame's promises of family and isolated in my feelings of outrage. 
The second time was in a classroom this sehool year. A fellow student used a racially pejorative word to illustrate her point. While the student's inten­tions were not malicious, the effect of hearing the word in class outside of the context of an explicitly race-relat­ed conversation was jarring. My peer's unwitting utterance of the "n­word" illuminated the feelings of exclusion and discrimination I and other minorities feel in small doses sometimes daily. Being the only black, Latino or Asian in a class, being expected to speak or represent your race during class leetures, never see­ing religious icons reflecting your eth­nic heritage and being assumed to be an athlete based on skin color all weigh on the hearts and minds of minorities. 
We must not underestimate the abii­ity of language to exert the forces of domination and hate on others. As reflected in the "Laramie Project," whenever someone calls another a derogatory name, that is a violent act. That comment, in the context of a play about the murder of a young gay man, gives us pause. When we recog­nize language as a tool to exert pain on others, we have a frame through which to evaluate our actions and their consequences. Seeking reconcili­ation when we harm others with words repairs a relationship and opens a place for discussion and growth. To further ignore our mishaps in speech adds to the violence of our words. 
We look to a day, as a goal, when these words and their speakers no longer have the power to disrupt peo­ple's lives. Until then, what can we do to have constructive discussions of modern prejudice with the words of hate'? Perhaps discussing the origins and uses of' these words to. under­stand their eontinued effect, agreeing on parameters for discussion that uphold everyone's dignity while still encouraging controversial ideas and responding to insecurity as the discus­sion progresses may be helpful foun­dational rules. We can create in our communities and in ourselves spaces in which matters of race, sex or sexu­al orientation can be discussed con­structively and non-violently. I charge all of us, as our student leaders look for systemic answers to group divides, to be proactive vessels of the change we need at Notre Dame. Through our deeds and our words we either do the work of love and inclusion, or of hate and violence towards others. 
Kamaria Porter is a junior history major. Her column appears every other Wednesday. Contact her at kporter@nd.edu. 
The views of this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Meagan O'Neil Dan Tapetillo 
Where are you going for 

Katie Laird Ann Loughery Lisa Schultz Ryan Kiefer spring break? Viewpoint Scene Becca Rosswurm Becca Saunders 
Graphics Illustrator Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at Graham Ebetsch Graham Ebetsch www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Never be bullied into silence. Never allow your­selfto be made a victim. Accept no one's definition ofyour life; define yourself" 
Harvey Fierstein author 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 2, 2005 page 9 
Calling all pilgrims 
Think ahead, if you can, to tlw summer. What. an~ you planning to do with your­sell'! 
It's hard to pieturn .July right now in a place like South Bond, wlwrn March comes in like a lion. and gons out like a f'prorious lio.n that spits Greg snow and wmd at you Ruehlmann and trios to ~~at you. But tlw truth is, sum-FailhPoint nwr is rwaring, and now is tlw time to start making dwiees about how to spend it. 
hn· seniors. surnJJHH' likPiy holds the last gasp or rn~ndom. tho start of a nnw job, tlw hunt for a nnw job or a combina­tion thPrnof'. But what about you under­r.lassnwn'! Some pnopln takn tho nasy road-tlwy find a SLJJnnwr job and try to earn some ntsh belim~ sdwol starts up again, tlwy·ovnrdosn on Halo 2, they "take it easy." 
I'm not trying to suggnst taking it easy is wrong. We call it sumnwr vacation for a n~ason. But vacation donsn't entail for­getting our obligations. For Catholks, this moans we don't implement a seloe­tivn Mass attf'ndance policy. Wn don't susp1md our eommitnwnt to snrviee. In other words. thorn is a dill'ernnce bntwenn "taking it easy"-a natural dnsirn whnn we don't havn homnwork­and "taking the summer oil'." Taking the summnr oil' is exactly what we shouldn't do. 
lnstnad, we arc called to take our faith seriously while we take it easy. Countless people at Notre Dame answnr this call brilliantly. They do summer servieP proj­ects through the Center for Social Concerns domestically and abroad. They work in programs like Camp Kcsem, Notrn Dame Vision and National Youth Sports Program. And many others, evon as they opt for jobs and llalo 2, incorpo­rate rngular servico work and worship as well. 
I encourage ovnryonc to follow suit. MakP a visit to tho Center for Soda) Concerns and find out what you can do. Seek out a parish. Talk to people who serve in the places you'lllive while school's out. There are so many opportu­nities to live out tho gospel during tho months of' summer. And I'd like to sug­gest one more. 
I low about being pilgrims? 
"Pilgrims?" you ask. "We haven't boon pilgrims sincP the second grade Thanksgiving pageant at Our Lady of the Jloly, lloly, lloly, lloly Hosary! And those pilgrim hats don't lit anymore." 
Tho pilgrims I'm talking about don't np,cd big paper hats ... although that would be pretty enol if you wore them anyways. For most Americans, pilgrims merely call to mind turkeys and cos­tumes. But our faith has a rich and won­drous tradition of pilgrimage. Believers throughout the ages have traveled to holy places to pay their respects­Canterbury, Santiago de Compostella, Lourdes, Horne and Jerusalem. They journey to sil<~s of signilicance, whero saints have lived and martyrs have fall­en, where God appearnd and Jesus walked·. 
The journey occurs on two love Is. On the extnrior, pilgrims physically move togetlwr towards their destination. But tho interior pilgrimage is more impor­tant. In it, the pilgrims sojourn through relloction; they explore themselves beforo moving outside to Pncountor together the Lord who croatns and con­trols their destiny. When the pilgrims return, even though they eome back to thn same place they left. they arc, in fad, transformed by the interior and ext<~rior pilgrimage into stronger believers and b<1tter leaders. 
Fortunately this tradition continuos in Catholicism. This summer it will be alivo and well in the eity of Cologne, Germany. Cologne is the site of World Youth Day 2005 on Aug. 21. On that day, the pope will say Mass with a million pilgrims or morn who've traveled from all over tho world to celebrate the faith in communi­ty. These pilgrims will enjoy a week of festivities beforehand: praying, listening to speakers and sharing their expori­ences with Catholics from around the world. 
I attended the last World Youth Day in Toronto in 2002 as a studnnt. Through the pilgrimage I gained snveral new friends from Notrn Danw and els1~wlwre. And. by voyaging to the place. by partici­pating in the Mass with our incredihln pope, we all felt a new sonse of lif'n and a chalhmgn to <:arry it bark with us. Tlw peopln I wont with n~turned to eampus and bncaqw some of' its greatest lnadnrs. The pilgrimago's inlluenee was rmnark­ablo. 
Cologne is calling, and this pilgrimaJ.W makes the same promise. Campus Ministry is organizing a contingent to go onen more. Parishes, diocnsns and groups all over the eountry aro gearing up for the journny. I eneourage you to consider joining all of us as pilgrims. Cheek with your diocosn bar.k honw. Pick up an application to be part of Campus Ministry's group at our website wyd.nd.ndu. You'd be back in timn for dassos to start, and you'd bn a bettor pnrson for it. 
Like I said, summer's eoming and it's lime to start making choices. So what are you planning to do with yoursnll'? 
Greg Ruehlmarzn works for Campus Minislry. lie can be contacted al Ruehlmann.l@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Obstacles to freedon1s on can1pus are unnecessary 
Given President Bush's liJrtheoming visit to earn­pus this Friday, and coupled with the recent contro­versy in our post-Sept. 11 world mnenrning free­doms and civil liberties, it is striking to me that we, as a University, still maintain polides which seem to be unnoeessary and quite regressive with respects to student right<; to eondud demonstrations, to dreu­lal.l~ questionnain~s and surveys and to hang-up and/or di<.;tribul.l~ advertisement<;, posters or other lhrms ofannouncement<;. As individuals studying to better both the good of the world and ofour immcdi­al.ll eomrnunity here at Notre Dame, we need to ask ourselves enrtain questions. Do these policies repress Lhn exchange of information <md ideas or do they further them'! Do they allow lor appropriate and uninhibil.l~d llow of thought<; amongst students, or do they hinder such llows? Do they allow for <md eneourage a true liberal-arts nducational experi­ence, or do they send mixed-messages about what our goal i<.; !L<.; <m elite, Catholic educational institu­tion? 
It i<.; my personal opinion, and the opinion of many in our community whom I have spoken with, that the polides outlined in DuLac do in faet suppress certain fmedoms 1md liberties that we should all have as students ofa university. 
Flip to page 125 ofyour always-handy 2004-2005 edition of DuLac, mad the entire section entitled "Student Activities Polieies" (it i<.; only 12 pages in length) and see for yourself just what I and many others are eoncerned <Uld perplexed about. For instance, aceording to the rules put ((Jrth here, "All student<;, groups ofstudenl<.; or student organizations wi..,hing to distribul.ll a questionnaire or initiate a survey are mquirnd to request permi<.;sion from the Vice Presidnnt for Student Affairs" by submitting a mpy ofthe questionnaire or survey with a written explanation of the project's purpose. Why? Why i'> it necessary l.ll gp,t penni<>sion from a University offidal for something so basic 1md unobtrusive in nature? 
Thnre's more. According to the regulations out­lined in DuLae, student<; must rehrister all "demon­stration'>" on campLL'> with the A'>.'iOCiate Vice l'residnnt for Residence Ufe. Why? Since the term "demon">tration" is not defined, i'> any type ofa.'>.'>em­bly at all to be considered a "demonstration?" For example, bec.ause of thi'> regulation, students wish­ing to protest Bush's visit to campus here this Friday l.l1chnically must regi">ter with the Associate Vice President of Resllie. Or, students wishing to show solidarity against the VDay festivities, no matter how small their assembly, must technically register as well. Why L<.; that necessary? If a "demonstration" is conducted in a peaceful and orderly manner, why, at a university, a center ofinformation exchange and academic intrigue, must such an a.'>sembly ofequal­ly-minded individuals be registered with university offidals? It Sflerns to me that in this ease, a.'> in many of these eases, we a.'> a community are acting prior to anything controversial actually taking place-in a way, we are attempting to keep controversy from occurring. Thi'> seems like a dangerous thing to do in a setting where we should be encoura.ging, not ham­pering, the free flow ofidea.'> across all lines in our eommunity. 
There arc other elemenl'> ofthis section in DuLac which stick out in a similar manner-for example, the section on "Advertising, Posters and Announcement'> ofActivities," which requires all posters hung-up on campus to be approved by Student Activities. As a compromise, what ifwe had "free speech" areas on campus, policed by students, and allowing for the free advertisement ofideas, announcements, postings by unrecognized or newly­forming groups, etc.? 
All ofthis may seem unimportant to you, it may not seem like a problem to you, maybe you just do not think that the regulations can actually be changed or maybe you just do not care that you "may be sent to the Offiee ofReslife for violating these regulations" (Pg. 125, DuLac). However, to many, and hopefully to many others whom I do not yet know of here at Notre Dame, there is something greater at work here. Even at a private institution such as Notre Dame, individuals should still be guar­anteed reasonable rights and freedoms. This may sound lofty, but why shouldn't we be? After all, ifwe are going to be one ofthe nation's premiere academ­ic institutions and concurrently one of'the world's most elite Catholic centers oflearning, then how can we pos..'>ibly maintain such polides as the ones out­lined above? To me it seems impossible, and I am interested to know -what do you think? 
MatthewWalsh 
junior 
Zahm Hall 
Maoch I 

Let's act with class 

With just two critical home games remaining on tho schedule, the men's ba.<.;ketball team needs the fans' support more than over to make a run at the NCAA Tournament. ThP Leprechaun l.ehrion hopes to pro­vide as much ofthat support a.'> possible. However, a problem IHL<.; been brought to our attention that must be addressed. 
At the Boston College game, the Big East commissoner complained about students yelling the word "sucks" aftllr each opposing player's introduction. This has been a long-standing tradition at Notre Dame, but one that does not sit well with some fans and administrators. 
After the complaints, the athletic dPpartment a.">knd the Legion to help end this chanting. If it does not stop, we were told that they will take away giveaways and pizza before the games, and will stop aknowl­edging the student section during Notre Dame player introductions. 
We obviously do not want thi<.; to happen. With that in mind, we are asking the students at the Hutgers game to sit in their seal<; and road the newspapers provided, completely ignoring tho Scarlet Knighl'>. If we refrain from yelling "sueks," then students will avoid a negative out­come. 
We understand this jeer is something that has taken plaeo for many years and it is a difficult task to eurb it so quickly. Despite this, it will benefit everyone more ifwe, as a studPnt body, ean change this trend. Let's start Wednesday with player introductions, then watch the Irish take down Rutgers. 
Since thL'> game will likely be the last of the sca.">on for most studenl'>, give our seniors a loud round ofapplause for their countless contribu­tions to the program during their careers. Notre Dame ba.<.;ketball is back on the map and each ofthese players ha.'> helped greatly along the way. Thanks for all your support of the team and Go Irish! 
Brian Tracy 
~nior 
Knon Hall March I 

Tl··IE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 10 
Wednesday, March 2, 2005 
Unique performances come to ND 
From acrobats to singers to pianists to performers of traditional African music, Notre Dame offers special entertainment throughout the spring semester 



The National Acrobats of Taiwan, ROC is world-renowned for the ability of its acrobats and entertaining spectacle showcased throughout every show. 
By MARIA SMITH Scene Editor 
Spring break might be the top event on most people's minds right now, but the week following the break offers a great deal for fine arts aficionados upon their return. 
The experiences offered in March are truly unique and tick­ets for more popular shows may disappear quickly, so take a look before heading out for the week. The National Acrobats of Taiwan, ROC 
This troupe of acrobats from the Fu Hsing Academy has traveled around the nation performing spectacular feats. 
The acrobats are famous for using household items like tables and chairs in their performances. In the past, they have been known to balance on stools 30 feet high, spin numerous plates on sticks simultaneously and balance 12 acrobats on a single bicyde. 
The average acrobat trains for eight years before performing in the show. Their director, Lo Jib­Hung, was also co-director of the Golden Dragon Acrobats during the 1980s. 
The National Acrobats of Taiwan, ROC will perform March 14 at 8 p.m. The show is part of ND Presents, a series of interna­tional shows brought to the Morris Performing Arts Center by Notre Dame. Tickets are available from the center and range from $20-45. 
Ronan Tynan 
This former member of the Irish Tenors is famous for more than his voice. 
Tynan has sung for some of the most famous people in the world -including at the wedding of New York Mayor Rudy Guilliani, during the seventh inning at many New York Yankees games and at the funeral of Ronald Reagan. 
But this remarkable singer only began voice lessons at the age of 
33. Tynan had both legs amputat­ed below the knee after a car accident at the age of 20, and before beginning his career as a musician worked as a certified medical doctor in the field of orthopedic sports injuries. Tynan also won 18 gold medals and 14 

world records as a multitalented athlete in the Paralympics between 1981 and 1984. 
Now the singer is famous for his diverse performances ranging from Verdi's "Requiem" to the hymn "How Great Thou Art" to the pop classic "From a Distance." No matter what he is performing Tynan's voice remains one of the clearest and most beautiful in the world. 
Ronan Tynan will perform in the Leighton Concert Hall Thursday, March 17 at 8 p.m. Tickets cost $20 for students, $37 for seniors, $40 for faculty and staff and $50 for the general public. Emmanuel Ax and Yefim Bronfman 
Classical pianists and Grammy winners Ax and Bronfman are proof that there are few lan­guages as international as classi­cal music. 
Ax was born in Lvov, Poland. At the age of six he began to study piano in Warsaw. After his family moved to North America in 1961, Ax began his studies at the Julliard School of Music. 
Bronfman was born in Tashkent, the current capital of Uzbekistan, which was at that time part of the Soviet Union. Bronfman immigrated to Israel in 1973 and auditioned for the Israel Philharmonic at the age of 15. 
Both artists have performed around the world. Bronfman, who performed Shastakovich's Piano Concerto No. 2 in Fantasia/2000, performed the piece in New York, London, Paris, Tokyo and Los Angeles for the gala screenings of the film. Ax has performed with the London Symphony Orchestra, Orchestre National de France, Suisse Romande and DSO Berlin, and is sought for performances around the United States. 
Ax was awarded a Grammy for his performance of the Haydn Piano Sonatas. Bronfman was also given the award in 1997 for his performances of Bartok's Three Piano Concertos with the Los Angeles Philharmonic. 
The two pianists produced their first famous duet collaboration in 2002 with the release of the rarely recorded Rachmaninoff pieces for four hands. Their cur­rent tour includes pieces for four hands by Debussy, Havel and Stravinsky. 
Emmanuel Ax and Yefim Bronfman will perform March 18 at 8 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall. Tickets cost $15 for stu­dents, $36 for seniors, $38 for faculty and staff and $48 for the general public. 
Ladysmith Black Mambazo 

The sound of Ladysmith Black Mambazo is unmistakable and very distinguished. 
Over the past 15 years, these singers of traditional South African music have become cul­tural ambassadors around the world. The group sings a style called lsicathamiya, which was first sung by black South African mine workers. The music was for­bidden under apartheid and Mambazo has since become a national treasure as it has been brought back to worldwide atten­tion. Mambazo accompanied the South African President F. W. deKlerk to the Nobel Peace Prize ceremony in Olso, Norway in 1993 and performed at Nelson Mandela's inauguration in 1994. 
The full, rich and rhythmic a capella sound of Mambazo is per­haps most famous for its appear­ance on Paul Simon's 1997 release "Graceland." The album was one of the most influential works in a burst of world music that entered popular culture and was certainly instrumental to Mambazo's fame. 
"Shaka Zulu," the group's first 
U.S. release. won a Grammy for Best Traditional Folk Album. Since then the group has been nominated for six additional Grammys. Mambazo has also per­formed with George Clinton, Stevie Wonder, Dolly Parton and Ben Harper. Their performance on Sesame Street with Paul Simon is also one of the top three most requested segments of the show's history. 
Groups with the talent and political po\Yer of Mambazo are truly few and far between. 
Ladysmith Black Mambazo will perform Sunday, March 20 at 8 
p.m. at the Leighton Concert Hall. Tickets are $15 for students, $28 for faculty and staff and $35 for the general public. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 

courtesy www.tourismrranaimo.cnm Photo courtesy of www.artsandlectures.ucsb.edu Emmanuel Ax, left, and Yefim Bronfman are world famous pianists and Grammy winners. Their famous duet collection was released In 2002. 
--------------------------------------------------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Wednesday, March 2, 2005 
page 11 
Nanovic Institute presents European films 

Nanovic Institute series of contemporary film: 
"European Cinemas, European Histories" 
March 3 

"La Mala educacion/ Bad Education" (Spanish 2004) 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
7 p.m. show introduced by Marvin D'Lugo of Clark University 

March 17 
"Rosenstrasse" (Germany 2003) 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 

7 p.m. show introduced by Nathan Stoltzfus of Florida State University 

March 31 

"Captians of April" (Portugal 2000) 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
7 p.m. show introduced by Robert Fishman of Notre Dame 

April 7 

"Soldiers of Salamina" (Spain 2003) 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
Presented by NO Cinema 

Shown in the Browning Cinema in the PAC 
By BECCA SAUNDERS Assistant Scene Ediror 
As South Bend winter continues into March, Notre Dame students will not need to look far to lind an entertaining and eul­turally expanding activity. In fact, one only needs to look as far as the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts to discover a world of cinema waiting to be viewed. 
The Browning Cinema shows lilms of various genres throughout the year, but many of the Thursday night slots of this snmestor arn dndicatod to showing films that are part of the 2004-2005 Nanovie Institute series of contemporary film called "European Cinemas, European llistorios." Prior to their 7 p.m. showings, the films are generally introduend by a person with some sort of rnlationship to tho subject of the film or to the film itself. Shown as part of Nl> Cinema, the films of various languages and genres provide a glimpso into tho world boyond snowy South Bend and the United States. 
Two l"ilms that were part of the "1\uropean Cinemas. 1\uropean llistories" have alrnady como and gone. The Fronch ''L'Auberge espagnole" (2002) and the Irish "Bloody Sunday" (2002) worn shown narlinr this senwstnr, but tho majority of the program has ynt to be shown. 
Tlw next film will be shown Thursday at 7 and I 0 p.m. The Spanish lilm is called "l.a Mala edLH:aeion!Bad Education" (2004) and was dirednd by Pmlro Almodovar. The 7 p.m. showing will be introdu1:ed by Professor Marvin J)'J.ugo from Clark University. The plot of the movie revolves , 

Photo courtesy of http://www.labutaca.net Spanish director Pedro Almodovar shines In "La Mala educaclon." 

for the most part around two boys. lgnaeio and 1\nriquo, in the early 19(J0s. A1:cording to tho lntnrnational Movie Databaso Web Site synopsis, they "discover love, movios and fear in a Christian school. Father Manolo, the school principal and litnraturn teaehnr, both witnesses and takes part in these diseoverios." Tho film continuos based around the same three men as they again cross each other's paths in the latn 1970s and in 1 980, changing "the life and death of some of thorn." A promising lilm from a world rnnowned director, "La Mala educaeion/Bad Edueation" is a must-sen film according to many lilrn critics. 
"Hoscnstrasse" (Germany 2003) is the next lilm showing in the Nanovie Institute series on March 17 at 7 and 10 p.m. Directed by Margarethe von Trotta, "Hosnnstrasse" will be introduced by Nathan Stoltzfus from Florida State Univorsity at the 7 p.m. showing. In a review of "Hosenstrasse," Jeremy Fox of pajiba.com describes early 1943 Berlin, when "the German government seized thousands of Berlin Jews who previously had been allowed their freedom because th1~y were married to G1mtilns. The Nazis held them in the former office of the Authority for the Welfare of the Jewish Community at 2-4 Hosenstrasse, planning to deport them to coneentration camps. Their families began to assemble in thn street in front of the building, more eaeh day, and after months of peaceful but increasingly verbal protest, those held inside were set free." The story is based around the story of protestor Lena Fischer and is primarily told through her flash­backs to the successful protesting of 1943. 
On March 31 the Nanovie Institute will show "Captains of April" (Portugal 2000), whid1 was dirndnd by Maria dn Mnd1~iros. Hobert Fishman from tlw departnwnt of sodolo).,ry will introduc1~ tlw 7 p.m. SITnnn­ing. Tho Nanovic lnstituto Wnh sitn explains tho film "isn't a docunwntary about tho 197 4 nwolution in Portugal. But it giws us an idl'a of how it was likl'. Tlw heroie actions of Captain Salguniro Maja arnn't oxaggnrations and tlw lilm is also a tributn [(n· his donds." 
The lin<Ll film of l.lw Nanovic lnstitutl' lilm sories will show on April 7. "Soldi1;rs of Salam ina" (Spain 20031 was dirnctl'd by David Trueba and is a story of a young novelist in Spain. Tlw Nanovir lnstitut.P Web site summarizes thn plot about tlw young novnlist "who has lost lwr inspira­tion" and thus "invnsligatns a t.nw story from tho end of tho Civil War involving tlw infamous writer and idnological l'asdst, Hafaol Sandwz Mazas. Shn diswvnrs that he nseapnd from mass oxorution with tho help of an anonymous young soldinr. Thl' novelist gradually pieem; togotlwr this story, riddled with eontradktions and lmig­matie eharactnrs. Unwittingly, as lwr seareh progresses, it is not only about lind­ing the truth that she is aft1~r. but linding hers1ilf as well." 
"European Cinomas, l•:uropean Histories" constitutes quite a lineup for this spring and oll"ers a handful of quality films from around the world that have gained notien and a1:daim. Tho Nanovil'. institutn series of contemporary foreign films will providn a unique form of ontl~r­tainment for any student willing to commit a Thursday night to broadening his or her cinematic horizons. 
Contact Becca Saunders at saunders.S@nd.edu 


page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 2, 2005 
PGA 

Top competitors to take the green at Doral 
Monetary incentive entices players to make appearance at Ford Championship 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -The stars are aligned in Miami, and some believe it's no accident. 
The Ford Championship at Dora! begins on Thursday with one of the strongest fields on the PGA Tour this year. The only player missing from the top 12 in the world ranking is No. 3 Ernie Els, who has played the Dubai Desert Classic every year since winning Dora! in 2002. 
A small part of the tourna­ment began Monday. 

Across town at Indian Creek Country Club, Ford Motor Co. had a corporate outing involv­ing Vijay Singh (No. 1), Retief Goosen (No. 5), Sergio Garcia (No. 6) and Padraig Harrington (No. 8). 
And they didn't show up out of the goodness of their heart. The Sun-Sentinel cited a tour­nament source as saying the fee was as high as $150,000. 
Appearance money? 
"It's a corporate outing early in the tournament week," said Duke Butler, vice president of tournament business affairs at the PGA Tour. "It's not unlike a number of things that have gone on for years. None of those stipulate that you must play in the tournament." 
Ford did not need to invite Phil Mickelson (No. 4) to the outing, because it already has an endorsement deal with the Masters champion. Lefty played with select Ford dealers on a different golf course Tuesday. 
What gives the Doral field some serious pop is Tiger Woods, the top draw anywhere in the world. Woods wasn't included in the outing for obvi­ous reasons -he is sponsored by Buick, and $150,000 is chump change for a guy who commands $3 million when he goes overseas. 
Still, the corporate day with four players -all of them IMG clients -has become such an issue that it will be on the agenda when tournament spon­sors gather for their annual meeting later this month at The Players Championship. 
"Those players already told us last year they were going to play Dora!," PGA Tour commis­sioner Tim Finchem said. "Perception-wise, I understand the concern. We have to deal with the perception." 
In some respects, it is simply smart business, and Ford is not alone. 
Ford became title sponsor at Dora! about the time it signed up Mickelson to wear its logo on his shirt and make "What will Phil do next" commercials. That all but assures Lefty will be at Doral every year, although he skipped the first year when his wife was preg­nant with their third child. · 
That's no different than the deal between Buick and Woods. 
Woods is not contractually obligated to play any of the four Buick tournaments, although he has played at least two of them each year since he­became part of the Buick golf team. 
And don't forget 84 Lumber~ 
The Pennsylvania company 

signed an endorsement deal with Singh and John Daly, another big draw. And speaking of appearance money, 84 Lumber attracted a stronger­than-usual field last year by offering every eligible player at its tournament six first-class seats on a charter to Ireland for the World Golf Championship. 
NFL 



Free agents prove to be in detnand this signing period 
Associated Press of days. those guys that played hard for position and he's probably the three-time champion New 
This year, with the cap at us that we feel are Redskins." best remaining available tackle. England and NFC champ 
Drew Bledsoe has signed with $85.5 million, $5 million more Still, Washington is part of He'll command big money even Philadelphia, the Steelers often Dallas and Muhsin Muhammad than last season, the best one of the early dramas of free though he's far below Jones are willing to let their own go if with the Bears. Ty Law has potential free agents have been agency: what to do with wide and Pace -he's thought to be they aren't worth the price. drawn interest from several protected with franchise tags or receiver Laveranues Coles, seeking a contract in the area Another Steeler on the mar­teams. The Tennessee Six, re-signed, including offensive signed two years ago from the of the $36 million, seven-year ket will be linebacker Kendrell especially Samari Rolle and tackles Orlando Pace and New York Jets and paid a $13 deal signed by Indianapolis' Bell, the defensive rookie of the Derrick Mason, are hot com­Walter Jones; running backs million signing bonus. Coles, tackle Ryan Diem. year in 2001. Since then, he modities on the free-agent mar­Edgerrin James and Shaun who had 90 receptions last sea­"My feeling is that because has spent more time in the ket. Alexander; wide receiver Jerry son, wants to be traded there are more top players trainer's room than on the field 
As the signing period begins Porter; cornerback Charles because he believes Gibbs' being franchised or being and on Tuesday, Pittsburgh re­Wednesday, the players most in Woodson, and quarterbacks offense emphasizes the run too retained by their clubs, more signed Larry Foote, who demand are those who have Matt Hasselbeck and Drew much. money will be thrown at fewer replaced him last season. been released by their former Brees. The Redskins had talks with players. It will be expensive," The Patriots already have cut employers or are about to be­A lot of lesser players also the Jets about sending him said New York Giants general Law, the anchor of their sec­as good or better than the rest are off the market as teams try back in return for Santana manager Ernie Accorsi, who ondary for a decade. That was of the free agents. to remain as cohesive as possi­Moss, but that now seems needs a tackle but is not sure for salary cap reasons -he 
The reason: most teams now ble. unlikely. If they release him, it he is willing to pay Jennings' was due $12.5 million next sea­recognize it's best to keep your "The most important thing could cost them more than $7 asking price. son. own, especially your stars. So for us is having a certain group million in salary-cap space The marquee name on the But New England also recog­good players go on the market of guys to build around," said because of the prorated bonus market is Plaxico Burress, the nized that Law is 31 and that only when there are salary cap Washington coach Joe Gibbs, The prototypical 2005 free Pittsburgh wide receiver. the Patriots won the Super issues or personality pressures who last year inherited an agent may be Buffalo's Jonas But he also carries a "buyer Bowl last season without him -as with Randy Moss, whose offense of ill-fitting parts, the Jennings, an offensive tackle beware" tag. He's been incon­-he missed the second half of trade from Minnesota to product of futile spending for who will probably be in sistent, and the Steelers the season with a broken foot. Oakland most likely will be half a decade by owner Daniel demand simply because numer­declined to protect him as a That injury is making some made official in the next couple Snyder. "We want to honor ous teams need help at that franchise player -similar to teams wary. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5·cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Catholic family offering full time summer childcare opportunity; 4 children ages 6 to 12; Scottsdale Mall area; 7:30am to 4:30 pm; wages negotiable; non smoker; own transportation needed. Call Maureen 360-1738. 

FoR SALE 
OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4 rm, 2 bath. For details fimbel.1 @ nd.edu or 574-261-0900. 

Save your grant money & buy a refurbished DELL computer. 
$100&up. 229-3333 

FoR RENT 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS 
AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL YEAR. 
TWO BEDROOM, TWO BATHS. 
HURRY 235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL. 
DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BEDROOM HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006-2007 SCHOOL YEAR -2-3-4­5-6-7-8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234-2436 OR 574-315-5032. 

Great 6-7 bdrm home available 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm available NOW. Both Close to ND,W/D,on-site park­ing. ND Internet Canopy access. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 
19237 Cleveland 
7 bdrm -52950 Marks 
5 bdrm -202 E. Cripe 4 bdrm -222 
E. Willow 3 bdrm. 2773097 
Now is the time to reserve your 
house for 06-07. 
Call233-9947 
or go to 

www.andersonndrentals.com 
Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent pro­gram. Blue & Gold Homes (574)250-7653. 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 S.B. AVE -605 ST. PETER CALL 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 
6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAG­ULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876-3537. 
2-3 bdrm houses avail.now and 05­
06. C,lose to ND. Call 276-2333. Omni Properties 
PERSONAL 

Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! Panama City, Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award Winning Company! SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
she hates people 

Team orange forever and always 
It looks like a snow globe outside! 
wanna play tag? 


Wednesday, March 2, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
NBA 




Miller's free throws lead Grizzlies past Warriors 99-97 

Associated Press 

MEMPIIIS, Tenn. -The Memphis Grizzlies finally found their shooting touch. 
Mike Miller stole a pass by Jason Hichardson, then hit two free throws with 10.4 seconds left, and the Grizzlies held ofl' the Golden State Warriors 99-97 Tuesday. 
The Grizzlies won their second straight game by snapping out of a franchise-wmst shooting slump that had seen thnm rail to shoot 40 percent in the past six games by hitting 49.:~ percent (36-ol'­73). It was Uwir best. perform­ance since shooting 50 percnnt on Feb. 8 against Minnesota. 
"I think it was just a matter of knocking down open shots," Grizzlies forward Brian Cardinal said. "If you go back and look at tho games we'vn struggled shooting, we've struggled because we weron't hitting the opnn shots." 
Memphis coach Mike Fratnll<~. now just one victory from becoming the 19th NBA eoach with 600 career victories, agreed. lie pointed out tho Grizzlies shot 9-of-20 from 3­point rangn after hitting a sea­son-low three 3s in Saturday night's victory at San Antonio. 
"We finally came alive from the 3-point line, which has boon missing for a while," Fratello said. 
Shane Battier seornd a season­high 2!i points and grabbed I 0 rebounds, Cardinal added 20 and Miller finished with 19 for Memphis. The Grizzlies also took the season series from Golden State 3-1. 
"This was a game we had to win," Battier said. "Wo'vo got to take care of tho teams that are below us in the standings. It. was a nice win on a day that was a little irregular." 
This isn't the start tlw Warriors wanted for an night­game road trip. Biehardson fin­ished with 29 points, Mickaol Pietrus added 17. Mike Dunleavy 16 and Baron Davis I 0. 
Goldnn State coaeh Mikn Montgomery said his Warriors must play aggressive <Htch minute of the game. 
"We need to gnt up on tmuns instead of being down 10 points. We need to bn able to play alwad ... We just need to play harder," he said. 
Memphis led by as many as I h points in thn third quarter but kept the Warriors in tlw game by tying their season high with 2:{ turnovers, which (;olden Stale turned into 2:~ points. Hiehardson also seornd 13 points in tho fourth quarter as he tried to rally tlw Waniors. 
Tho (;rizzlies lnd 96-<J!i wlwn Hir.hardson tried to pass to Davis. Miller rnadwd in and got thn ball, forcing Davis to foul him. Davis added a layup before James Posey snal<~d tlw victory with a fi·nn throw, and Davis' 3 dangnd oil' the rim at the end. 
"I thought that I got on· a good shot," Davis said. "I was on my loll, and it just went in and out..,· 
Mnmphis led !i3-!i0 at the half. Thn Grizzlies took control in tlw third quarter with a I !i-:{ run started by Jason Williams' :~­pointer, and tlwn Miller hit con­secutive 3s. Bat.l.ier's jumper with 
6:54 lnfl put Mnmphis up 6S-!i(J. 

NHL 
Players and board of governors hold separate nteetings 
-~ 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK-If there are cracks with in the players' nssocialion, they weren't evi­dnnt Tunsday whnn the rank and file mot for the first time since the NIIL season was can­celed. 
"The so-callnd splinter fac­tion in the union that is going a dif'fernnt direction has been drummed up by a lot of media members and people hoping a doal g.ets done," St. Louis defenseman Chris Pronger said. "I ean unequivocally say everyone is on board and understands the issues bet­ter." 
The meeting lasted about three hours on Tuesday after beginning a night earlier with a dinner. 
While more. than 150 of1 the NI-IL's 700-plus players met in Toronto, the league's board of governors -representing all 30 t.eams -gathered in New York at the same hotel where 
The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates tnust be seniors who exen1plify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known., including personal integrity and character, commitment to Notre Dame, and writing ability. 
Candidates may be nominated by faculty, staff, 
or fellow students. 
For a nomination fonn, please visit our website at: 

http:I I osa.nd.edu 
Norninations are due by Friday, March 4, 2005. 
eommissioner Gary Bellman imposed the lockout in September and wiped out the entire season two weeks ago. 
Both meetings were expeet­ed to be informational, provid­ing updates on what happened in the failed negotiations the past 5 1/2 months. Union lead­ers seheduled another meeting for Wednesday in Toronto with player agents. 
The board of governors meeting was the first sinee the start of the lockout. Alternate governors, comprised of gen­eral managers and other exec­utives, were also present in Manhattan. 
Wayne Gretzky, the manag­ing partner of the Phoenix Coyotes, was absent because he was with his ill mother in Brantford, Ontario. 
Gretzky and Pittsburgh Penguins playor-owner Mario Lemieux took part in the last bargaining session with thn union on Feb. 1!J -throe days after the season was wiped out -is an effort to uncaneel the season. But they left dis­appointed that a deal wasn't in place. 
The governors began discus­sions around 12:30 p.m. Tuesday and were expected to continue talking into the early evening. 
Debate was expected to takE~ place between hard-line own­ers who want a salary eap with a link bntwnen league revenuns and player costs, and thosn who just want a reasonable dnal in plaee that would allow f'or the NIIL to get back on tho ice nnxt season. 

HOLY CROSS COlLEGE 
HALL DIRECTOR NEEDED AT HOLY CROSS COLLEGE MEN'S HALL 
GRAD STUDENTS 
LAW STUDENTS 
IF INTERESTED CONTACT RESLIFE@HCC-ND.EDU FOR MORE INFORMATION 







OUND THE NATION 
page 14 CoMPILED FROM T1··H ()r>srRVER'S WIRE SERVICEs Wednesday, March 2, 2005 
ITA Men's Tennis Poll 
team 
1 Baylor 
2 Virginia 
3 -Illinois 
4 UCLA 
5 Mississippi 
6 Duke 
7 Florida 
8 Georgia 
9 louisiana State 
10 Ohio State 
11 Texas A&M 
12 Kentucky 
13 Stanford 
14 Pepperdine 
15 Auburn 
16 Oklahoma State 
17 Southern California 
18 Tennessee 
19 Harvard 
20 Texas 
21 Washington 
22 NOTRE OAME 
23 TCU 
24 North Carolina 
25 Wake Forest 

ITA Women's Tennis Poll 
team 
1 Stanford 
2 Florida 
3 Georgia 
4 Northwestern 
5 Duke 
6 Vanderbilt 
7 Kentucky 
8 Washington 
9 North Carolina 
10 Miami {Fla.) 
11 UCLA 
12 Southern California 
13 Texas 
14 Tulane 
15 California 
16 Baylor 
17 TCU 
18 Clemson 
19 Harvard 

I 
I 20 William and Mary ,I 21 Tennessee I 22 NOTRE DAME 
I.
I 23 Georgia Tech 
I 
I 24 Brigham Young 
I 
I 25 Indiana 
Women's College Lacrosse 
Big East Standings 
team conf. overall 
NOTRE DAME 0·0 1·0 Syracuse 0·0 1·0 Boston College 0·0 0·0 Connecticut 0·0 0·0 Georgetown 0·0 0·0 Rutgers 0·0 0·1 
around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Georgia Tech at Wake Forest 7 p.m., ESPN Texas A&M at Oklahoma State 7 p.m., ESPN2 Kansas State at Kansas 9 p.m., ESPN2 
MLB SPRING TRAINING New York Mets vs. Washington 1 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. -Tim Hudson probably would have gotten more money by becoming a free agent. He had other things on his mind, like playing close to home for the team he rooted for as a kid. 
Hudson completed a $47-million, four-year contract extension with the Atlanta Braves on Tuesday, giving up the chance to go through free agency at the end of the season. 
"I knew all along this was the place I wanted to be," said Hudson, a for­mer 20-game winner. "It was just a matter of getting together with a fair· enough contract." 
Hudson will make $6.75 million this year. His new deal calls for a $10 million signing bonus, payable when the contract is approved by the com-
IN BRIEF 
Redskins give Samuels team-record signing bonus 
ASHBURN, Va. -This year's big signing for the Washington Redskins at the start of free agency is one of their own: tackle Chris Samuels, who received the largest signing bonus in team history. 
Samuels and the team reached agreement Tuesday night for a multi­year deal that includes a signing bonus of $15.75 million, according to an official in the league who spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Further details were not immedi­ately available, but the deal solves a pressing need just before the start of free agency at 12:01 a.m. Wednesday. Samuels' contract was scheduled to count a whopping $9.5 million against the salary cap this year, constraining the team's ability to re-sign players and acquire new ones. 
Samuels' bonus exceeds the club­missioner's office, and salaries of $4 million in 2006, $6 million in 2007 and $13 million each in 2008 and 2009. 

Hudson's extension contains a $12 million mutual option for 2010 with a $1 million buyout. If the option is exer­cised, the deal would be worth $58 million over five years. 
"We look forward to Tim being the cornerstone for us going into a new era of excellent Braves pitching," gen­eral manager John Schuerholz said. 
Hudson was traded from Oakland to Atlanta in December. Hudson went 12­6 with a 3.53 ERA in 27 starts, but spent a month on the disabled list with an injury to his left side. 
He figures he would have command­ed at least $15 million a year as a free agent, but was willing to settle for less to play for the Braves. 
The 29-year-old right-hander was a 
record $15.5 million linebacker LaVar Arrington received in his nine­year, $68 million contract signed in December 2003. 
Jury investigates slush fund at Colorado 
DENVER -The grand jury that investigated Colorado's football pro­gram said two female trainers alleged they were sexually assaulted by an assistant coach, and a slush fund was created with money from coach Gary Barnett's football camp, according to a report leaked to the media. 
Money was kept in 16 or 17 cash boxes, each managed by a different person with little oversight, accord­ing to the grand jury's findings, which were obtained by KUSA-TV and shared with The Denver Post. 
A source who has seen the grand jury report confirmed the accuracy of tho news reports on Tuesday. The source spoke on condition of anonymity. 
Braves fan growing up near Columbus, Ga. He attended Auburn University and is planning to build a home in that Alabama town, about a two-hour drive from Atlanta and already home to his parents. 
With two young daughters and another child on the way-Hudson's wife is due in April -the pitcher was willing to sacrifice a few million dollars to get a deal done with the Braves. 
"It's not like $11.5 million (a year) is peanuts," he said. "Obviously, it's below market value for me. That's fme." 
Once the two sides began serious negotiations, things went smoothly. The main points were agreed on sev­eral days ago, leaving plenty of time to finalize the deal before Hudson's self­imposed Tuesday deadline to reach an extension. 
Hornets waive veteran Davis 

NEW ORLEANS-The New Orleans Hornets waived Dale Davis on Tuesday, clearing the way for him to join a team -perhaps the Indiana Pacers -that is seeking a veteran forward for the playoffs. 
The Detroit Pistons have also expressed interest in acquiring the 35-year-old forward, who has aver­aged 8.5 points and 8.2 rebounds dur­ing his 15-year career. 
Davis came to the Hornets along with Speedy Claxton shortly before last week's trading deadline in a deal that sent point guard Baron Davis to Golden State. 
But the Hornets never expected Dale Davis, whose contract expires after paying him $10.1 million this season, to report to New Orleans. 
Davis played for the Pacers for his first nine seasons before being traded in 2000 to the Portland Trailblazers for All-Star forward Jermaine O'Neal. 
Wednesday, March 2, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NBA 
• 

In search of title, Mourning signs with Miami 
Assuciatt..·d Press 
MIAMI -Alonzo Mourning onr!~ was largnr than lifn, tho Miami llnat's biggnst star. Now, PVCHJ lw arknowlndgns thosn days arn gonn. 
Ynt Mouming also st!11tdfastly lwliPvns lw ran still play at a rhampionship-calibnr lnvnl. And now, at last, lw's bark with Miami and n•ady to rnsurne his pas t q liPst -d P I i v n r i n g tlw llnat's lirst NBA til.ln. 
Thl' s!wl'n-timl' All-Star C(~n­tPr sigrwd a contrad Tunsday to rPjoin Miami. Uw tnam with whom lw srwnt night pn~vious snasons -a stint twicn int!~r­ruptml by kidrwy disnasn. lin's nxpPrtPd to makn about. $:~2ri.OOO for tlw rnst of tlw sna­son. a proratnd shan~ of thn $I .I million minimum vetnran contract. 
"It's ddinitnly hnnn a long limn coming," tho 3ri-ynar-old Mourning said al'tnr a two-hour praetkn and :Hl minutes of nxtra shooting drills Tuesday. 
"It. just feels good, feels good to bn bark home, having evnry­thing linaliznd. I've benn here for thn past three months train­ing, just waiting, bning patient." 
Mourning should be in uni­form Thursday wlwn Miami vis­its New .Jorsey. lie averaged 
10.4 points and 7.1 rebounds in I H garnns for thn Nets narli!~r this S!HlSOn. 
To dnar a roster spot, Miami waivnd forward Wnsley l'nrson, who playnd only 27 minutns sinen Doe. 4 and was displnasnd with his dirninishnd role. l'nrson may soon sign with the Dnnver Nuggnts. 
Tnamrnatns gave high marks aftnr Mourning's first full work­out. 
"lie's just going to make us a touglwr team to bnat." said eon­tnr Shaquilln O'Nnal. 
"WIH~n Shaq gons to the bnnrh, wn don't havo that pres­enen," added guard Dwyane Wade. "Plus, he's very strong. It's going to bo groat." 
Miami (42-1(,) entered 
Tuesday five games ahead of Detroit in the Eastern Confernnce, and 9 1/2 games up on Washington in the Southeast Division. Miami hasn't oeen shy about tweaking its roster -last wonk, another Ileal alum, guard Steve Smith, was aequirnd from Charlotte. 
Smith enhances Miami's perimeter rotation, but adding tho (,.foot-10, 261-pound Mourning could create serious rnatchup problems for oppo­nents -especially if he and O'Neal are on the court togeth­er. 
"lie's still a very good defend­er and shot blocker.... Those arc the two main areas I look for, his dnfense and his rebounding," Ileal coach Stan Van Gundy said. "As far as min­utes and that, or role, or who's going to come ofl' the bench first ~nth~; long run, I don't have any tdea. 
Van Gundy said he won't immediately thrust Mourning into a key role in the rotation. 


"When we play on Thursday, we've been going to who have I'm going to go to tho guys won garnos," lw said. 
COLLEGE fOOTBALL 

Wright plays leading role in Texas A&M' s resurgence 
Associated Press 
COI.I.I·:CI~ STATION, Texas­llardly anyone thought Antoino Wright would stay at Toxas A&,.M this. long. Now tho quos.... t i on is w h e t lw r lw ' II s ti ck around even a little longer. 
i\ftPr Wright sc~ored 29 points in a hig win ovor Texas Tech last wonk, a sehool-rncord crowd of 13,136 seronaded him with ehants of "One more yoar!" Wright had a wide smile as he · waded through a mob of deliri­ous fans on his way out of Heed Arona l'or what could be the last limo. 
With the same kind of poise he had shown earlier on the court, Wright coolly del'lected quostions about his plans fol­lowing his junior year: another year at A&M or the NBA? 
"I don't know," Wright said. "This season is not over. When the soason is over, I'll think about that." 
For the first time in more than a decade, the Aggies may have something to focus on in mid-Mareh other than their ofT­season conditioning program. 

A&M (1H-7, 7-7 Big 12) still has a shot at an NCM tournanwnt bnrth, which would be its lirst since 19H7. 
Wright, of course, is a big rea­son that Aggies fans havnn't already turned their attention toward spring football. Now hn is finally delivering on the promise he showed as a prep star in Southern California ar1d as a prneoeious college~ fresh­man. 
"I think he's an outstanding player, certainly onn of the best in our lnagun," said Oklahoma State coad1 Eddie Sutton, whose team hosts A&M on Wednosday. "lin has tho whole package. Sonwday he'll proba­bly play in the NBA. I hop!~ lw doesn't leave (narly)." 


FOR YOUR BEST TAN EVER! 

-


SPRING BREAK SPECIAL! 

3tans tor 
10 
Expires 3/30/05 COUPON APPLIES TO REGULAR BED SESSIONS. NOT VALID WITH OTHER DISCOUNTS. LIMIT 1 PER PERSON. 
.t-~ 
~~ 
Welcome to Paradise! 
• Pre-leasing for the 2005-2006 school year 
•Studios and 1 and 2 bedroom apartments (574)272-8124 
ask Sherry for details www.a imco.com 
~
)C~l 

Carroll Auditorium. Madeleva Hall Saint Mary's College. Notre Dame.. IN 
CWIL 

Thursday~ March 3. 2005 7 p.m. 
Presentation with book signing to follow. 
This event is free and open to the public. Proceeds from the book sale will benefit the YWCA of St. Joseph County. **Sponsored by the Center for Women's InterCultural Leadership.** 
For more information, please calll84·4180 or v~sit www.saintmarys.edu/-cwil 

NBA 

Walker happy with his return 
Forward looks to make impact against the Lakers Wednesday 
Associated Press WAlTHAM, Mass. -Antoine Walker was back at the Boston Celtics' suburban workout facil­ity, back in the familiar green, back on the practice parquet. The only visible difference was the No. 51 on the spare warmup jersey he grabbed, and the smile on his face. Chucking up 3-pointers ­relax, Celties fans, it's only practice -Walker was happy to be back in Boston after his exile on the Dallas beneh and NBA purgatory with the bot­tom-dwelling Atlanta Hawks. So happy that he's willing to put his problems with Celtics bas­ketball boss Danny Ainge, whom he once called a snake, in the past. "I give Danny a lot of credit for bringing me back. That takes a lot for anyone to do," Walker said Tuesday as he pre­pared for his first game back in Boston with the Celtics. "I said things I dido 't really mean, and I'm sure he said things he prob­ably didn't mean." Walker called himself a more mature player than the one that left Boston 1 1/2 years ago when Ainge sent him to Dallas -as much to break his stran­glehold in the locker room as on the court. The Mavericks sent him to Atlanta last summer, and the Hawks bailed out on him last week to get a future first­round draft pick. "It lifted my spirits up to come back to a team that can win," Walker said as he looked toward Wednesday night's game against the Los Angeles l.akers. "It's going to be very exciting for me." A No. 1 draft pick in 1996, Walker played seven years in Boston and became the face of the franchise. He made three all-star teams, carried the 
-

Celtics to the 2002 Eastern Conference finals and, with Paul Pierce, accounted for a bigger portion of the team's points than any duo in the league but Shaquille O'Neal and Kobe Bryant. 
But soon after Ainge took over the Celtics' basketball operations, he determined that he wouldn't pay the maximum price Walker wanted in an extension. The concern that Walker wouldn't be happy after the snub apparently prompted Ainge to ship him to Dallas. 
Walker lashed out. 
That was then. 
''I'm just happy to be back in the place where I started my career, and I've had success," he said. 
But more has changed than stayed the same for the Celtics since Walker's departure. Jim O'Brien is no longer the coach, and with him went the pBrpetu­al 3-point shooting that had Walker stationed at the perime­ter instead of banging under the basket. 
"Philosophies changed. We just haven't shot the 3 a whole lot," coach Doc Hivers said. "He's been fine with it." 
Hivers, who was the coach of the Orlando Magic for part of that time, said Walker let oppo­nents off the hook when he strayed from the basket. 
"I thought he was easier to guard then than he is now," Hivers said. "All we knew was, we didn't want him in the box. If he made 3s and beat us, we felt, 'We'II live with that.' When he beat us down low, it killed 
us." 
• 

Agreement reached with Bryant accuser 
Associated Press 
DENVER -Experts believe a settlement between Kobe Bryant and the woman who has accused him of rape makes the most sense for both sides because it allows them to avoid a potentially embarrass­ing trial that would bring out intimate details of their lives. 
ABC News Hadio reported Tuesday that the NBA star and his 20-year-old accuser have reached an agreement in prin­ciple, with a settlement possi­ble as early as this week. 
Attorneys for Bryant did not return ealls, and the woman's attorneys declined to end to courtrooms, an end to mfletings with lawyers," Denver attornBy Larry Poznflr said. "And what you give back is money, and what Kobe Bryant has a lot of is money." 
The woman filed her lawsuit in Denver federal court in August, three weeks before the criminal case against the Los Angeles Lakers star collapsed when she deeided she could not participate in the trial. 
Allegations in the lawsuit echoed those of the criminal ease: The woman said Bryant flirted with her during a tour of the Vail-anm resort where she worked in June 2003. 
After the two 
ended up in his 
comment on the report. Earlier, the  "There's going to be some real short-term  room, began and  they to kiss Bryant  
woman's attorneys had  pain attached ... "  became more aggressive,  
scheduled a seven-hour  David Carter  holding her by the throat while  
questioning  sports marketing  he  raped  her  
session with  consultant  from bBhind.  

Bryant on Friday, but it was scratched, prompting speculation a settlement was close. 
Denver attorney Bill Keating said a settlement always seemed the only logical end for the high-proiile lawsuit. 
Bryant and many observers "recognize this is a ease likely to be very time-consuming, very expensive and a case that delves into intensely personal issues on both sides," Keating said. 
"It's really the perfect case to be settled because there are lots of areas of compensation other than money that come along with getting the case set­tled: not having to be involved in this public issue any more," he said. 
A settlement would offer Bryant "an end to litigation, an 
The lawsuit 
seeks unspeci­fied damages for mental injuries, humiliation and pub­lic scorn. 
Bryant, a married father of one, issued an apology to the woman but maintained the sex was consensual. 
Bryant, 27, has to bring an end to the civil case if he hopes to regain a semblance of the rising-star image that brought him lucrative product endorse­ments before he was charged with sexual assault, said David Carter, a sports marketing consultant with the Los Angeles-based Sports Business Group.. 
"There's going to be some real short-term pain attached, but absent this, he'll never be able to move on to any kind of marketing career," Carter said. 
Wallace leads Bobcats to a 94-87 win over Kings 
Associated Press 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Gerald Wallace expected to be fired up to play against the Sacramento Kings. Instead, he felt an over­whelming letdown when the group that took the floor looked nothing like his former team. 
Still. Wallace had one of his best all-around games of the season in leading the Charlotte Bobcats to a 94-87 victory over the Kings on Tuesday night. 
lie finished with 16 points, seven rebounds and five steals against the team that drafted him. l-Ie spent three seasons with the Kings before they left him unprotected in the expan­sion draft. 
"A lot of thn excitement was down because a lot of the guys I played with are gone or didn't play," Wallace said.· "The feel­ing wasn't there that I thought would be there. It didn't feel
-
the same. It didn't feel like the same team." 
The Kings arc still juggling a new lineup created after trad­ing Chris Webber to Philadelphia for Corliss Williamson, Brian Skinnnr and Kenny Thomas. 
Plus, starters Brad Miller (calf ·contusion) and Peja Stojakovic (strained hamstring) were in street clothes, as was reserve Darius Songaila (strained foot). 
"We got a win," Wallace said. "Whether its them or some other team, we came out with the win." 
Wallace shot 7 -of-12 from the floor -pretty good considering he sat out Charlotte's last game with a sprained wrist -and had a huge defensive rebound with the Bobcats leading 90-82 with 1:19 to play. 
Sacramento's Mike Bibby missed a jumper and Wallace grabbed the rebound and pushed the ball up the court. Brevin Knight converted with a jumper that made it 92-82 with 58 seconds left. 
Primoz Brezec led the Bobcats with 19 points, Knight had 17 points and 10 assists and Emeka Okafor had 11 points and 13 rebounds. Melvin Ely came off the bench to score 11. 
Bobcats coach Bernie Bickerstaff wasn't all that 
pleased with the victory, point­ing to Sacramento's 48-40 rebounding advantage and Charlotte's 18 turnovers. 
"We got a victory and we needed one," he said. "But you can't be satisfied with that unless you say 'On a bad night, we got it done."' 
Williamson, acquired last week in the trade for Chris Webber, led Sacramento with 18 points and all three players acquired from Philadelphia for Webber had decent games: Skinner had 15 points and 16 rebounds and Kenny Thomas had 13 points and 12 rebounds. 
But Mobley (17 points) and Bibby (14) were off, combining to shoot 12-of-29 with 14 turnovers. 
"The three guys who we got played hard, but our two guards really had a tough night," Kings coach Hick Adelman said. "You are not going to go very far, especially with guys out and being short­handed, if Cuttino and Mike have games like that." 
All of Sacramento's problems helped Charlotte build a 55-45 lead at halrtime. 

Wednesday, March 2, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
25-foot birdie putt. Peckels said. "I Balderston I Which is causn for opti­the total tiHlm score. Tnammatos Erie Deutsch and had a really tough up-and­mism. In addition, Is ban's 1wen-par
Invite 
Mark Baldwin parred the holn, along with two
continued from page 20 
Snahawks in that 11vcsome. 
strokn lwading into tlw final With three Wilmington play­round, had tlw samn idna for nrs in thn second group, ilsi'I1'. Peeknls, Baldwin and Dnutsch Thn Snahawks shot an had to watch and wait as Cole impr«~ssivn 2')4 to catch thn lsban and Tommy Baldnrston Irish, which rardPd a tnam playnd with three Snahawks scorn of 29!i. in thn final group. 
Tlw two tPams Thue, Wilm­thPn playnd a ington put the 0 lin-h 0 I (' . t. (' II -"We've got a lot of pr11ssurn back on m a n p Ia y o I'I' to potential." thn Irish as two of dPt.nrminn thl' thrne Seahawks winrwr. l~ach landnd their tnam's l'ivn Eddie Peckels appro;u:hns with­artivl' playnrs Irish golfer in fifteen fent, but playPd tlu• par­tlw other IPI't his four No. I(, in well short. livnsomns. "Cole hit a nice 
In t hn l'i r s t g r o u p , 1·: d d i 11 drive and then his socond shot I'Prknls gavn tlw Irish a one­to three or four feet...but it stroke~ lnad wlwn lw drainnd a dol'initely wasn't ovor, 
r n a II y w cd I d o f o n s i v e Iy, " M1:Craw said. "Wn just had a
Batteast 
hard timn making shots. We continued from page 20 h a v 1\ to stay tough . You're going to have nights when tho 14-2 mark in Big Hast play. balls not going in the basket Chand AIIPn had 14 points and you've got to stay with it, 
and ninP rnbounds for Notre you've got to keep working." l)amn. whiln AII-AmPriean Allen was the diiTerence for .Jarquelirw Batwast struggled tho Irish. Shn finished 3-of-6 most of thn from tho l'ield, night, finishing but more impor­
"f.','eton Ilall was/
with I I points on tantly, drained all just 4-of-1 6 blocking our shots, eight of hnr free shooting. throw attempts,
and they played
"Wn just ineluding four
really well 
wnrnn't r«~ady to down the stretch play," Md;raw defensively. " that sealed the said. "I thought victory. wn playnd prc~tty "I thought
Muffet McGraw
wcdl defnnsivnly Charcl Allen was 
Irish coach
hut wn nnndnd player of the 
sonwhody to stnp game," McGraw up and make said. "She was shots in thn post and none of the or~e wh~~ really won the our post wnrn able to do that. game lor us. It was rnally disappointing." "I was just trying to takn 
Post playnrs Batteast. what they were giving me and Courtnny l.aVnre, Teresa doing whatevnr I could," Allen Borton and said. ''I'm glad we Crystal Jo:rwin got this game out rombinnd to of our system. shoot an arwmie Everyone has a 7 -of-35 for the "We just weren't game like this, so gamn, while ready to play. " I'm glad this 
guards Megan game came dur­Duffy and ing the regular
Muffet McGraw
Brenna Gray season and not wern just as bad, Irish coach during tourna­going 1-of-7 and ment time." 2-of-9, respec-Ashley Bush tively. paced the Pirates 
"[Snton Hall was[ blocking with 19 points and 11 our shots and they played rebounds, but no other Seton 
IMARVKNOLL 
Contact Fr. Mike Snyder, M.M. e-mail: vocation@maryknoll.org Vocation Ministries phone: (914) 941-7636 x2416 
P. 0. Box 305 toll free: (888) 627-9566 Maryknoll, NV 10545-0305 http://society.maryknoll.org 
down out of the bunker." Pecknls belinvns that win­Pnckels was right-it wasn't ning the first tournament of over. the spring was impressive for B u the Irish. Balderston cool­"Espneially ly landed his "Especially coming coming out of third shot with­out ofthe snow, we the snow, we in tnn feet of wnrn probably
were probably the 
thn cup and the least pre­
least prepared 
procended to pared team in drain his par team." terms of rounds putt. of play, just Then it was bncau s n o I' t lw
Eddie Peckels 
OVI~I'. elimate we 
Irish golfer 
Cole then ron111 from," tapped in his Pocknls said. birdin, and the "It's hard t.o Irish won thn playoff. 2-under tell just on one tournament, to 1-ovnr. but ... we've got a lot of 
For Notrn Dame, this potential." marknd t.hn team's first win A testament to that poten­since capturing the Big East tial, evmy Irish golft•r partid­Championship last April at the pating on the first day had at Warren Golf Courso. least one round eount towards 144 (73-71) eiTort led thn Irish Monday and tied him for first individually al'tl'r 36 ho]c\S. 
llis 77 on Tuesday rnmoved him from contention for the individual til.ln, but his play in tlw playoff lwlpnd seal till' deal in tlw team's win. 
lin finislwd in a tiP for firth ind ivid ually. WhnrP Is ban dropped otT Tuesday. howevnr, other Irish golfnrs pic:kpd up. 
BaldPrston shot a onn-undnr 71 in the l'inal round and Baldwin cardnd an PVIHJ-par 
72. Pncknls and Dnuts1:h earh shot rnspnctablc~ rounds of 7(, 
Baldwin's solid round pro­pPIInd him from 20th to 12th. and Baldl'rston's 71 earrwd him I <Jth individually. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler@nd.cdu 
llall player seornd more than six points. Seton llall (14-13, 6-10) will face St. John's in tho first round of tho confnr­ence tournament on Saturday. 
Tho Irish arc off until Sunday at 6 p.m. when they facn either West Virginia or Pittsburgh in the Big East quarterfinals in llartl'ord, Conn. 
The Irish edgod Connectkut for the second seed, despite tho Huskies beating West Virginia 71-41 Tuesday. 
NOTRE DAME 41, SETON HALL :{5 at SOUTH OBANGE, N.J. 
NOTHE DAME (25-4, 13-3) 
BaUnast 4-16 3-b 11. LaVere 3-9 1-2 7, Borton 0-(• 1-2 1, DuiTy 1-7 0-1 2, Gray 2­9 2-3 6, (;aines 0-2 0-0 0, Allen 3-6 8-H 14, Erwin 0-4 0-0 0. · 
SETON HALL (14-13, 6-10) 
Blake 2-H 0-0 4, Korpivaara 2-H 0-0 4, Phillip 0-2 0-0 0, Shutz 0-5 0-0 0, Bush 9­

DUSTIN MANNELLA!The Observer 
1<J 1-2 1<J. Carroll 2-8 0-0 6, Sullivan 0-0 

Irish guard Chris Thomas dribbles up court against UCLA

0-0 0, Harris 1-2 0-0 2, Costello 0-2 0-0 0, 
Ellis 0-2 0-1 0.  
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  15  26  41  
Seton Hall  17  18  35  

3-Point GoaJs: Notre Dame 0-5 (Gray 0­1, Batteast0-1, DuiTy0-3), Seton llall2-15 (Carroll 2-6, Korpivaara 0-1, Ellis 0-1, Hush 0-:l, Shutz 0-4). Fouled out: Blakn. Rebounds: Notre Dame 49 (Allen 9), Seton llatl 44 (Bush 11). Assists: Notre Dame 7 (DuiTy 3), Seton Uall 11 (Carroll 4). Total fouls:Notre Dame 12, SeWn llall16. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

Sunday.j 
Rutgers 
continued from page 20 
sive end wasn't where it 
needs to be," Chris Quinn 
said. "These past couple of 
days we been more focused, 
and we're ready to get back 
on the court." 
The Irish (Hl-9, 8-6 Big East) return to the court tonight hosting Hutgers (9-16, 
2-12) at the Joyce Center. Home-court advantage has played a major role in this series, with the host team winning the past live games between these two teams. 
The key for the Irish tonight will be reestablishing themselves on the defensive end. 
Hutgers has the second­worst defense in the confer­ence, allowing 69.4 points per game, so the Irish aren't coneerned about being able to score points against the Scarlet Knights. 
"Offensively we'll be all righJ., " Qu i n n s a i d . "Defensively, this year, it's something we've b1~en able to rely on. holding teams in tlw 50s and 60s-and these past couple of games, it's not the tnam we've been all year." 
Hutgers hasn't won a road game since Dne. 28 or a con­ference road game since Jan. 28, 2004 -a stretch of I I Big East games. 
This is the type ol' the ganw the Irish should win. 
In m a ki n g a r u n at t lw NCAA tournamnnt, that's what tho snln<:tion eommitten is looking at -arn thoscl teams close to the lield of 65 winning the games thoy'rn supposed to. 
That's all the Irish need to be coneerned about, espocial­ly since they control their own destiny. 
"I think at this time of the season, a lot of players gnt caught up in HPJ, standings and rankings, but it's just numbers," Chris Thomas said. "At the end of the day, if you put together your best resume and play each gamn like it's a tournament-type game, you'll bn finn. 
"That's something I've reit­erated day in and day out." 
For Notrn Dame's resume, a win tonight gets them a winning record in tho ruggPCI Big East. 
It also puts them in position to win 10 conferenee games for the fourth time in Mike Brey's five snasons in South Bend, whieh all but guaran­teos thnrn a spot in the NCAA tournamnnt. 

But right now, all the Irish ean do is not put too mueh prnssurn on thnmsPivns and take earn of businnss against the Searlet Knights. 
"We can almost tast.o it. It's something we want so badly," Thomas said. "You ean almost s11P it in our body lan­guage and our l'aeP. It's not so much that we'rn tight or we're nnrvous-just t.hat we want it so badly, nspneially l'or nw, bnr.ause I want it so bad l'or thn team." 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 


....--------------­
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Wednesday, March 2, 2005 

Irish Athletics This Week...5LTHLRL 
Wed., March 2nd @ 8 PM Thurs., March 3rd @4:30 PM Irish Basketball vs. Rutgers #12 Women's lacrosse vs. Northwestern 
Joyce Center Arena tonus Spons Center 
• One lucky fan will win $100 in free gas ({!i; • First 200 fans will receive a 
·Red Panda Acrobat will be performing at long-sleeve schedule shirt half-time 
Visit www.notredamepromotions.com for all the latest promotional information 
Bouts 
continued from page 20 
was able to pin him against the ropes a total of three times, landing a devastating series of rights and lefts to solidify his win. 
Patrick "No Tomorrow" McMorrow, a senior from O'Neill, fought in the next bout with a sense of urgency and quickly disposed of Siegfried sophomore Nate Dyer. 
.Just 1:15 into the fight, McMorrow landed a punish­ing right hook that drew blood from Dyer. 
After a 10-count. the refer­ee stopped the contest, known as an HSC, and declared McMorrow the win­ner. 
The third match of the 165-pound weight class pit­ted Damon Semmens against off-campus senior Chase "You around the ring" Heaton. 
After a slow start, Heaton began pounding away at Semmens and eventually won by unanimous decision. 
He knocked the law stu­dent to the canvas in the sec­ond and offered several strong jabs to the head in the third. 
Following the Heaton­Semmens contests, Jeff "Million" Robinson and Chris "The Count of Monte Fisto" Million gave the fans a dis­play of power jabs hooks. 
Robinson got off to a good start, connecting on several combinations, but Million came back with a strong sec­ond round. 
Million won by RSC 40 sec­onds into the third round with a tremendous left-hand­ed coup de grace. · Headshots and combina­tions exemplified the fifth and final 165-pound match­up of the night. Jeff "The Spuz Stud" Schaal won a unanimous decision over 
Aaron  "Glass  .Jaw"  
Ferenbach  thanks  to  his  
powerful rights.  
170  

Apparently, the trainers forgot to tell the first two sets of competitors in the 1 70-pound weight class about the prohibition of wrestling-style takedowns. 
And, apparently, the judges seemed to be fine with that. 
To begin the 170-pound contests, Alumni freshman .Jon "The Sanitizer" Floyd battled against Tom "Loves the Nugget" Digan. 
The match was full of fast­paced shots and returns, and it ended on exactly that note. 
With just seconds remain­ing in the third, Digan acci­dentally face-planted Floyd after a bear hug ended a heavy exchange. 
Digan was not punished, however, winning the bout in a split decision. 
In the second match of the class, Brad "Ba Ba Black Sheep" Wanchulak became the second boxer to win after illegally taking down his opponent. 
After dominating Adam "Alpha Fox" Frisch for two­plus rounds, Wanchulak appeared to lose his balance during a hug, in the process accomplishing a powerful full-body takedown Frisch. 
When the match resumed, "Ba Ba Black Sheep" contin­ued his dominance and won with a unanimous decision. 
Matt "Touch Me and I'll Sue" Smith followed that performance with a take­down of his own. 
He defeated Tripp "Dirty Jersey" Matteo in a RSC 1:15 into the match after a series of headshots disoriented Matteo. 
Although that contest was quick, the next match took even less time to complete. 
Andrew ''Down Goes Frazier" Breslin knocked down and defeated Mike "The Irish Curse" Sullivan just 60 seconds after the starting bell rang. 
Two freshmen then ended the streak of quick fights, battling in a long bout, stopped several times due to blood. 
Fisher Hall's Ben O'Brien drew first blood at the end of the opening round, landing a right to the face of Chris "That Guy" Ilippleheuser at the end of the period. 
Hippleheuser returned the favor several times over in the second, drilling O'Brien in the nose so many times that the referee had to sus­pend the match three times in the round. 
In the delayed third round, O'Brien found new life late, connecting with several right-left combinations and nearly knocking Hippleheuser to the floor. 
However, Hippleheuser's dominance in the first two rounds earned him a unani­mous win. 
In the sixth 170-pound bout, Dan "Pound Town" Ward landed eight right-left combinations in the second and defeated Brian "Slacks" Murphy by RSC with a left to the face 52 seconds into the third. 
The 170-pound matches ended with off-campus sen­ior Craig Thompson beating law student Eric Silva by unanimous decision. 
Silva landed several punches in the second, but Thompson's attack of speed and power overwhelmed him. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
BENGAL BOUTS 

Upsets occur in 180-pound class 
By KEN FOWLER AND 
CHRIS KHOREY 
Sporrs Writers 

Leading ofl' the late session of Bengal Bouts preliminaries Tuesday night at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse, freshman Mike Heilly of Fisher took on Eric "The Hed Menace" Hetter, a sophomore from Stanford, in the 180-pound division. The Red Menace knocked Reilly down in the first round, but the freshman used an aggressive strategy in the second and third rounds to come back and win by split decision. 
In the next bout, also in the 180-pound division, senior Dana Collins defeated graduate student .Jason "The Amarilla Killa" Miller in a unanimous decision. Collins was bloodied twice -once in the first round and once in the sec­ond -but recovered and landed several shots to Miller's head, including one that drew a gasp from the crowd as the final bell sounded. 
Next up in the division was Ed "Optimus Prime Rib" Hattrup and Doug "Six Months in the Hospital or Sudden Death" Bartels. Bartels attacked Hattrup early and often, dazing him and beating him into three standing eight counts by the middle of the second round. The referee stopped the fight 40 seconds into the second frame and declared Bartels the winner by technical knockout. 
Michael Siefring and Stu "Beans" Stypula started their 180-pound division fight tenta­tively, dancing their way through an uneventful first round. Stypula finally took the initiative in the second round, backing Siefring into the ropes. In the third round, Beans forced his opponent back into a neutral corner, and, despite valiant counterpunching by Siefring, won by unanimous deci­sion 
Kevin "No Name" Phipps 
Mortgage. A four-year starter for the
Pow Ius 

Irish from 1994-1997, Powlus continued from page 20 holds 20 Notre Dame career records including touchdown operations. passes (52), passing yards UND.com says Powlus' duties (7,602), pass attempts (969) and 
will focus on managing Irish pass completions (558). recruiting efforts. As the 1992 Parade national 
A 1997 graduate of Notre high school player of the year · Dame with a degree in market­coming out of Berwick (Pa.) ing, Powlus most recently High School, Powlus was named worked in the mortgage and the starting quarterback as a home loan business. true freshman in 1993. 
He· served as a wholesale But a broken collarbone suf­aceount executive for First fered in preseaspn drills side­Horizon Home Loans as well as lined him for the year. a loan consultant for Powlus started 46 games in a Washington Mutual Home career highlighted by an Loans/American Home Orange Bowl appearance and opened the heavyweight division by putting on a clinic against Chris "The Institute" Nanovic. Phipps looked like a title con­tender with his effective use of aggressive hooks and skillful jabs. The referee counted off a stand­ing eight for Nanovic only 10 sec­onds into the fight and then again in the second round. The Institute made a valiant attempt at a comeback in the third round but a Phipps counterpunch knocked him down and earned No Name the win by unanimous decision. 
In the last fight of the night, heavyweights Tony "Tiny Bubbles" Cunningham and Michael Milligan squared off. Cunningham landed several hard shots to Milligan's head early, using his superior size to great advantage. 
Late in the first round, a hard Tiny Bubbles cross knocked Milligan through the ropes. In the second round, Milligan tried to use his quickness, but Cunningham landed several hard blows and knoeked him down. In the third round, Milligan regained his confidence and briefly gained the upper hand, but it was too little too late as Cunningham recorded a win by unanimous decision. 
After getting knocked down less than 20 se·conds into the match, Chase "The Gunner" Gund nearly pulled off an amaz­ing comeback in the first 180­pound match-up of the night. Michael "Tepic Carl" Schmeid drew blood from the O'Neill soph­omore early and dominated the early portions of the bouts. However, Gund turned the tide late in the second and dominated the third with powerful jabs. It was not enough, though, as Schmeid won in a split decision. 
Nicholas "Goulet" Klein and Scott "Cheese Whiz" Kustes bat­tled in the next fight, going back and forth in a very even bout. After starting slowly, Klein landed enough headshots in the second and third rounds to win a split decision and advance to the next round. 
The third fight of the class pit­ted Hobert "The A.L.T.ien" Lochridge against Jefl' Gola. 
The more powerful Gola domi­nated the match, connecting on many more combinations and jabs than the junior from Knott. Thanks to Cola's headshots and power, the judges gave him a unanimous win. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowlerl@nd.edu and Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
9-2 record in 1996. 

According to the UND.com, Klunder "will coordinate a vari­ety of administrative and opera­tional details with Weis, includ­ing assisting with team travel, day-to-day scheduling for the squad, budgets and special events such as coaches clinics." 
Klunder worked as a gradu­ate assistant coaeh with the Irish offense the past two sea­sons. 
He is a 1995 graduate of Wartburg College with a degree in sports management. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

Wednesday, March 2, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
DILBERT 
ELBONIA HAS NO 
LANDING STRIPS, 
50 YOU'LL HAVE TO 
JUMP OUT OF THE 
PLANE. 

PEANUTS 
HAVE YOU SEEN MY BASEBALL GLOVE AROUND 
AN'f'W~E~E "? 

TRY TO FLAP YOUR ARMS AND AIM FOR A PLUMP ELBONIAN TO CUSHION YOUR FALL.  SCOTT ADAMS  
11 I KNOW NOT... AM I THE KEEPER OF M'f' BROTHER'S GLOVE? '' GENESIS 4-: 9  CHARLES SCHULZ 3/2/05  

HENRI ARNOLD

JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

J]l!JI)i:Jl§l11E. 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DAIDE 
± 
C2005 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
LIDAP 
1 
rJ [] 
~NAWKEE t 

WHAT THE TIPSY GAMBL-ER AND

I J I J 
THE DICE: HAD IN COMMON. 

www.jumble.com 
~THORAU t 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer. as

J I I I J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 

A: 
THEY rI I I J..rI I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: BOUND PROXY ANGINA REDUCEYesterday's I 
Answer: How long did the challenger last against the champ?-AROUND A ROUND 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 July 1944 battle 69 Forrnal site turndown
1 Guy Fawkes Day mo. 34 "Agnus _ " 70 "Them" 
4 Flora and fauna 35 Name in plastic 71 Med. insurance group
9 In a lather? 
38 Animator? 14 Big time 
42 Early Chinese 15 Translator's dynasty 
DOWN obstacle 1 Perce
43 Ode title starter 16 "Alfie" actress, 
Indians 
44 "Must've been 2004 2 It's extracted
something _" 17 Path to 3 Martha's 1960's
46 Row of cavalry

enlightenment backup group
barracks? 18 Place to take off 4 Book lover's
50 Street cleaner

in lighter-than-prefix air craft? 53 Pick up 
5 Gilbert & 20 Mid seventh-54 Omega Sullivan century year symbolizes it princess 
22 Caught, in a 55 "A.S.A.P.!" 6 Some museum way hangings
58 Just out 23 50's monogram 7 Painted
59 Satirical blog 24 Like some 
metalware
item? wonders 8 Organism with
63 Stanford·Binet 27 Like W. C. pseudopods
figs.Fields's nose 9 Railroad stop:
66 Cornhusker city30 Community Abbr. 
67 Xbox user

news source in 10"AIIey_!" Belgium? 68 Whole bunch 
11 Brazilian 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

novelist Jorge 12 Concealed 13 "Holy cats!" 19 "Movin' 
('The Jeffersons" theme) 
25 "Certainly" 26 List heading 
28 Strauss of denim 29 Nielsen of 
"Rocky IV" 31 "The Matrix" role 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

32 Old Ford  47 Prefix with  56 Ending with  
36 Give some to  -drome  time or life  
37 Web site?  48 1990's rock  57  office  
39 Ballpark rollout 40 Syllable from Curly 41 Cape Town coin 45 Capable,  genre 49 Halter? 50 Wise old head 51 Frisbee maker 52 Lazqrus and  60 Key letter 61 Toil in a trireme 62 Half of a yr. 64 Iranian city  
slangily  Goldman  65  -cone  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888,7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST 

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: Jensen Ackles. 27; Nik Kershaw, 47; Ron Howard, 51; Harry Belafonte, 78 
Happy Hirthday: You have the drive, determination and ialcni to get ahead this year. Keeping up with alithe opportunities you get will he the diflicuh part. Pick and choose wisely so that you don't spread yourself too thin. It will be important to do one really good job instead of several that arc just mediocre. Your numbers arc 8. 15, 22, 24, 35, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Have strength and you will surpass all the negativity that has been thrown your way. Speak loudly and clearly on your own behalf. You have worked too hard to let anyone take away your ability to prosper. *** TAURUS (Apri120-Mny 20): You'll he in a rare state of mind today·· emotional, loving and probably looking for some attention. Participate in anything thai brings you in contact with other people, and you will get what your hear1 desires. 
**** 
GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): An opportunity is likely tn develop from an idea you have. Work and money should be your prime concern. Your uniyuc yet trendy way of presenting whatever you do will result in a partnership, allowing you to further develop your talents. *** CANCER (June 21-.Juty 22): This is the perfect day t!Jr you to get things done. You will be able to obtain some very interesting knowledge from someone you encounter along the way. A short trip will result in an unusual tum of events. 
***** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You may make a poor choice based on false information today if you jump into an investment that sounds good on the surface. You may end up being the scapegoat for someone who is in a tight spot. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): This is an action day. Every1hing you've been thinking about doing should be thrown into motion. Launching your ideas now will ensure success later. You can accomplish far more on your own than in a group. so get moving. **** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put laziness a~ide and concentrate on the possibilities. You can make professional changes that will result in more cash in your pocket. Don't settle for less than what you want. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will find yourself in a position to do something great. Stand up for your beliefs. and you will be recognized as a person who doesn't back down and is true to his or her word. Your valor will lead to good opportunities and a solid future. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-I>ec. 21): You will have to use X-ray vision if you want to stay on top of what everyone around you is doing. Underhandedness is evident, so protect yourself and your interests. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.lan. 19): Everything you have been hoping to achieve is in reach. The help you need is available if you ask. Personal or professional partnerships will develop if you open up the chat lines. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): Not everyone will understand what you arc trying to accomplish. Don't worry so much about others; instead. focus on what will get you moving in a new and positive direction. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-Mnrch 20): Today is all about you, the ones you love and the ideas you want to develop for a brighter future. Nothing is out of reach·· you just have to have the courage to do what you know in your heart is right. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are extremely intuitive. intelligent and inspirational. You can make a difference to the people you meet throughout your life. You have so much to give and, because of that, you will receive in return. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State ____ Zip______ 
~--------------------­
Wednesday, March 2, 2005 
N 0 BASKETBALL 
Men have two Big East tests remaining 
By MATT LOZAR Sports Writer 
It wasn't the two losses that sent a message to the Irish -losses happen against quality opponents. 
It's the way those two games were lost. 
After preaching and prac­ticing defense all season, it failed the Irish in double­digit losses at Connecticut and at home against UCLA. The Huskies dropped a sea­son-high 88 points on the Irish while the Bruins opened up a 20-point sec­ond half lead. 
Now for the past two days at practice, it's been about getting back to what got the Irish to eight wins in the Big East with two conference games remaining. 
"We're focused a little more coming off two losses. Our attention to the defen­
see RUTGERS/page 17 


THE OBSERVER 
PORTS 
Women beat Pirates, 41-35 

ByJOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
After an impressive win against West Virginia Saturday, Irish coach Muffet McGraw wanted her team to keep its momentum heading into the final regular season game against Seton Hall Tuesday night. 
Scoring 41 points wasn't what McGraw had in mind. 
Despite shooting a dismal 22 percent from the field and tying its lowest road game point total in school history, Notre Dame snuck past Seton Hall 41-35 Tuesday evening. 
The Irish (25-4, 13-3) clinched the No. 2 seed in next weekend's Big East Tournament with the victory. Rutgers defeated Villanova 51-39 Tuesday to secure the cpnference title and top seed with a 23-5 overall record and 
see BATTEAST/page 17 
page 20 
GOLF 

Irish earn first win of season 
Team claims the Tulane Invitational championship 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 

The Jim Kubinski era at Notre Dame just started on the right foot. 
It took a couple more swings than the Irish may have wanted, but the Irish traveled down to the Bayou for the Nokia Sugar Bowl Tulane Invitational at the English Turn Golf and Country Club and came back to campus with the team's first victory of the 2004-2005 season. 
After taking the lead through Monday's two rounds, the Irish went out Tuesday determined to win. 
However, the University of North Carolina at Wilmington, down just a 
see INVITE/page 1 7 
FOOTBALL 
Povvlus returns to progra111 

Former Irish QB becomes director for personnel development 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 

Eight years after leaving Notre Dame, Ron Powlus is back. 
The former Irish quarterback was hired Tuesday as the direc­tor of personnel development for the football program, according to the University ath­letic Web site. Notre Dame also announced Tuesday that cur­rent graduate assistant football coach Chad Klunder has been hired as the director of football 
see POWLUS/page 18 
BENGAL BOUTS 
Boxing continues in second night at the JACC 
Lakers' Kobe Bryant and accuser reach agree­ment. Both decide to avoid trial. 
page 16 
NBA 
Bobcats 94 Kings 87 
Gerald Wallace fin­ished with 16 points, seven reoubnds and five steals for Memphis. 
page 16 

Above, Dana Collins takes a shot at Jason Miller. At left, Michael Siegring, left, battles Stu Stypula.
•
PHOTOS BY DUSTIN MENNELLA 
In 165 weight class, Thompson wins fight unanimously 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 

In the first match of the night, freshman Mike "Tyson" Thompson proved worthy of his name, beat­ing senior Andrew " T h e See Also Mizzou 
"Upsets occur in
L i g e r (bred for 180-pound 
its skills in 

class" 
magic)" 

page 18
Hronick by unani­mous deci­sion. Although llronick was much more mobile in the first and second rounds, Thomas took over the con­test in the third. "Tyson" 
see BOUTS/page 18 
NFl 

The Ford Champion-Few stars remain as ship at Doral begins free agents while those Thursday with one of who have been released the strongest fields on by their employers the PGA tour this year. become more in 
demand. 

page 12 page 12 
NBA 
Grizzlies 99 Warriors 97 
Memphis win their second straight game after defeating Golden State. 
page13 
PGA 


Boston forward An­toine Walker returns to the team more rnature after leaving a year and a half ago. 
page 16 




