
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

By MADDIE HANNA Assistant News Editor 
Backlash from The Vagina Monologues dominated discussion at the Campus Life Council meeting Monday, a topie that sparked ques­tions about the group's overall ability to make an impact on cam­pus. 

In response to tho resolution passed in support of V-Day and The Vagina Monologues at the Fob. 14 CLC meeting, Father Mark 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Student Affairs refuses to endorse play 
Topic sparks question ofCLC influence 
Poorman, vice president for StudP.nt Affairs, sent a letter to the committee stating the Ofl'ice of Student Affairs did not endorse the proelamation or "the activities of an unrecognized studnnt group." 
While Poorman said in the letter that "the University embraces tho larger goals of thf1 V-Day campaign and calls ev!~ry member of this community to participate in mak­ing our campus a 'rape-and vio­lence-free zone,"' he also said The 
see COUNCIL/page 6 

White House: Bush to stop at ND 
President's stop is not U n iversity-sponsored 
By MADDIE HANNA AssiMalll News Ediror 
l'n~sidnnt (;porgn W. Bush's plans to speak about Social Snl'urity at Notre Damn's .Joyen CPni.Pr Friday, accord­ing to a WhitP llousn press rPIPaSP. 
Notrt~ llamn is not aff'iliated wHh the prnsident's visit to campus, University spokos­man Matt Storin said. 
"This is not a Notre Danw­sponsornd event," Storin said, n x pI a in in g that tlw pres i­!ll~nt's visit would lw similar to that of Vic!~ l'n~sident Dick Clwnny in Oetobnr 2003 -a businnss transaetion lwtween 
the University and  the  Bush  
administration.  
"Thny'rn  basically  just  

see BUSH/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Duerson law-yer extends court date 
Former captain will face charges April 28 
By CLAIRE HEININGER 
and HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
News Writer~ 
Formnr Notre Dame foot­ball captain and two-timn All-American Dave Duerson dofP.rred his eourt appear­ance on Monday for misde­meanor assault charges until April 2S. 
Michael Tuszynski or thn South Bend l'irm 

Duerson
William P. Stanlny & AssociatPS appeared in St. .Joseph County Superior Court Monday morning to l'ile as I>unrson's private 1:ounsnl. St. .Joseph County deputy prosecutor Sean Schill said. 
Schill, who rnpresnntnd the pr·osecutor's of'fiee for lfw initial arraignmnnt. said a separate defense attorney also triml to beconw involved in the rase Monday but ulti­mately did not l'ile on Duerson's behalf. Schill doelined to give f'urtlwr details about the altnmpt or the name of the second attor­ney. 
"There was a bit of confu­
see DUERSON/pagc 8 

Death penalty series features former Illinois governor 
George H. Ryan discusses capital punishnwnt 
By TRICIA de GROOT New' Writt•r 
i\s part of' tlrn "Life in tlw Balanrn Death Penalty PPrspedivns" sPries that bngan last wonk. former (;ovPrnor (;«Hlrge II. Hyan of Illinois addressed tho Notre Damn community Monday night on "Thn I>Path l'nnalty: !\ System of .Justice & HerondI i al.i1in'?" 
H y an began t h n f'o r urn by saying that capital punishnwnt was previously sonwthing hn thought about only in thn ahstrad with n~gard to notori­ous erimns in the news. 

Students plan to honor, protest visit 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
President George W. Bush's confirmed visit to South Bnnd has spurred a diverse mixture of ehattP.r, ranging !'rom speculation on the motivation or tlw trip to the antidpatnd campus response. 
According to a Whito llouse news rnloase, Bush is slated to speak at Notrn Dame Friday. 
Given the diversity of opinion on campus, student political groups and thoir respective members will receive Bush in starkly divnrgent ways. 
Jan Honderos, co-prnsidnnt ol' the College Hepublicans, said thn organization is eagerly anticipat­ing Bush's visit to the University. 
"We are very excited to sno such an amazing man and leader 
see RESPONSE/page 6 
Whih1 snrving as Illinois (;ennral Assistant in 1977, Hyan still believed in the death penalty's importancn in the criminal justice system, although lw did not want to bn tho nxocutimwr. 
llownvnr. Hyan had a change of lwart al'ter lnarning about Anthony Portnr, who spent 16 years on doath row until hav­ing his easn ronvaluated and nvnntua.lly round innoennt and relnased. 
"It arnazod me that you could conw so close to tho ulti­rnato nightmare, and the sys­tem couldn't do anything 
see RYAN/page 8 page 2 


INSIDE COLUMN 

Too avvare? 
Violence against women. Heart disease. Animal righL'i. The death penalty. Eating disorders. 
These are all perfectly worthy causes and pressing issues in our society. 
And they have all become jokes to Chris Khorey Notre Dame students because of the rash of Awareness Weeks Sports Writer 
tlmt hit campus in the month of February. 

It all started in January as the first round of Vagina Monologues letters hit the Observer. At that time the debate was fresh. Students debated the merits of the performance, its relevance to issues of vio­lence, the Catholic Church's position, and the position of women at Notre Dame and in the world. 
However, by the time the Monologues were performed in mid-February, they had become at best a joke and at worst an annoyance. V-Day was everywhere. It put up giant posters in O'Shaughnessy, told people to wear red on Valentine's Day (don't we do that anyway?) and brought in Eve Ensler. Unfortunately for Ensler, when she finally arrived, the campus was in a state of total apathy. Worst, female victims of violence, instead of being helped by usu­ally charitable Domers, became the topic that no one felt like di'icussing any more. 
Then came the other issues. 
The Queer Film Festival had to deal with a letter from a Bishop denouncing it, but it created little dialogue among the student body. 
Proponents of heart disease awareness got totally overshadowed because, like V­Day, they decided to have people wear (ga'>p!) red on Valentine's Day. 
The week after tl1e Monologues com­memorated Student Government's Eating Disorder Awareness Week. No one seemed to notice. 
A symposium on the genocide in Sudan wa'i held in Jordan Auditoriwn. Few stu­dents attended. 
A group of animal rights activists plead­ed with seniors not to use sheepskins on their diplomas. People laughed. 
Finally, a: series oflnetures on the death penalty have arrived, but by tl1en students were so burned out and busy with midterms that the discussion was muted at best. 
Oh yeah, and it was Black llistory Month too. 
The goal of all of these events was to promote awareness, but it seems they failed. With all the issues jumbled togeth­er, all students started to hear was "you're a bigot who doesn't understand the prob­lems of the world." Instead of focusing on the problems being presented, studenL'> scoffed at yet anotl1er awareness week. To paraphrase the stoners in Super Troopers, "We're already aware! We can't get any more aware!" 
It is truly a tragedy that these worthy causes (some more worthy than others, but that's a different colunm) could not be evenly spaced throughout the year but instnad had to be lumped together and thrown at the Notre Dame student body. 
I'm thinking that the week after spring break, we should have Awareness Week Awareness Week. Perhaps then students would be more aware of the major prob­lem of under-recognized Awareness Weeks. We could put up posters and fliers and do a performance where people talk about their Awareness Weeks. 
We could even wear green on St. Patrick's Day! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Chris Khorey at 
ckhorey@nd. edu. 

CORRECTION 
Due to an editing e:mx; alener thar appeared in the VIewpoint section ofthe Feb. 25 issue ofThe Observeramrained an 
unfOunded mrrelation. The lener reftm:d to an on-cunpus spoo:h byWorldTradeCenrer engineer We Robernon befOre INing the lener-author's mnams about the mllapse ofthe wrc afi:er the =ristatt:ldG ofSept 11, 2001. Robernon is prohibit­ed liom speakingabout the WTC. R&rence to his public mm­mems, whiffi did notspocifically mention the wrc, should not have appeared The Observer regrets the enm 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 1, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD BE A SUPERHERO, WHO WOULD YOU BE AND WHY? 




Macarena Lindsay Joe Jost Jorge Villarreal Trish Murphy Julie McElroy lvanissevich Dougherty 
freshman junior junior sophomore Dillon Dillon Pasquerilla Breen-Phillipsfreshman freshman East
Pasquerilla Walsh West ~ "Captain "I would be ''I'd be the 
"Bubbles. She
"I would be America, Dunigan.! invisible 
does it all: flies, 
"Spiderman, Wonder Woman because I'd would have woman so I 
shoots fire from 
because it because I like want to work David Brent's could watch 
her eyes and
would be fun the costume. " with Wonder powers. men undress. " 
speaks rapidtQ swing Woman in her Spanish."
around the sweet outfit." 
city." 

Nude man covered in cheese gets probation 
MARYVILLE, Tenn. -A man caught by police last sunm1er on his 23rd birthday running naked and covered in nacho cheese pleaded guilty Monday to burglary and four other charges. 
Michael David Monn of Maryville appeared before Blount County Circuit Court Judge D. Kelly Thomas and pleaded guilty to burglary, theft, vandalism, indecent exposure and public intoxica­tion. In a plea bargain with prosecutors, Monn was sen­tenced to three years in prison but was given super­vised probation. 

Kangeroo remains mystery 
DODGEVILLE, Wis. ­Authorities in southern Wisconsin have discovered that capturing a kangaroo in a snowstorm isn't the hard part. It's finding out where the animal came from. 
Authoritins recently gave up their hunt for the owner of a red 130-pound marsupi­al, saying its origin will remain a mystery. 
The Iowa County Sheriff's Office has given the Henry VIlas Zoo in Madison permis­sion to keep the kangaroo, nicknamed Roo. 
Information compiled 
He also was given a judicial deferral, which means if he stays out of trouble for the next three years the charges will be expunged from his record. Thomas warned Monn that if he violates the sentencing requirements, he must serve the sentence in a state penitentiary. 
Early on the morning of July 18, 2004, Monn "was highly intoxicated, broke into the John Sevier Pool snack bar area, stole some suacks and did some damage and was caught naked with some stolen snacks," Blount County District Attorney General Mike Gallegos told the court­

room. from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Bud Welch, president of Murder Victims Families for Human RighL'>, will give a presen­tation entitled "Oklahoma City Bombing: Two Fathers & Forgiveness" today from 12 p.m. to 1:15 in the Coleman-Morse lounge. 
Marvin D'Lugo of Clark University will hold a seminar Thursday in 207 DeBartolo Hall from 3:30 p.m. to 5:30. This sem­inar is in conjunction with the screening of "La Mala edu­caeil)n/Bad Education" at 7 p.m. the same evening. 
· Staged readings of "Dead Man Walking" will take place tonight from 7:30 p.m. to 9:15 in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. Tickets may be purchased at the PAC box office or by telephone at 574-631-2800. 
ProHealth will conduct blood pressure and body fat screen­ings from 11:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. Wednesday in the Grace Hall lobby. The wellness assessments are available to all NO faculty and staff, and no appointment is nec­essary. 
A panel discussion entitled "National Debate on the Death Penalty" will take place from 
4:15 p.m. to 5:15 Wednesday in the Hesburgh Center auditorium. Tho panel will feature Madison Hobley, found innocent of murder after serving 14 years on Illinois' death row; Dick Dieter, Notre Dame '68, director, Death Penalty Information Center; and Bill Pelke, president, National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY 

HIGH LOW 

32 21 

TODAY TONIGHT WEDNESDAY THURSDAY 
a: 
UJ 

::r: 
~ 
UJ 
3: 
....I 
<C 
(.) 



18 15 


28 15 

32 22 
0 

HIGH 25
.... 

LOW 20 
Atlanta 4 7 I 28 Bos!on 36 I .22 Chicago 30 1.14 Denver 51 I 24 Houston 65 I 51 Los Angeles 68 I 52 Minneapolis 20 14 New York 36 I 26 Ph1ladelph1a 38 I 26 Phoemx 71 I 52 Seattle 54 I 42 St. Louis 37 I 19 Tampa 68 I 46 Washington 40 128 
Tuesday, March I, 200'5 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
SUB, adtninistration notninees approved 

Student body president-elect Dave Baron shows support for newly-appointed officials 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
Thn Council of Hnpresen­lalivns mol brinfly Monday night to approve two nomina­lions for lhn upcoming sehool year. 
Tho Council approved .Jimmy Flalwrty's nomination for Student Union Board Manager. This will be his sne­ond year in the position. Student body prosidnnl-eleet l>avn Baron told reprosenta­livns that Flaherty will eontin­un to bring nnw nnnrgy into SUB. 
"Wn want Jimmy to take ovnr as rnanagnr onen again. lin has a l'rnshrwss with what hn wants to do. flo's going to make SUB a brand name across campus," Baron said. 
COH also approved Liz Kozlow as Chin!' 1\xneutivn Assistant to Baron's upcoming administration. Kozlow. who snrvnd as chairpnrson of tho Ovnrsight Comrnil.tee on the Sl.udnnl Snnaln. will begin her nnw position April I. 
Baron offered praise of Kozlow's eharacter and assured representatives that she will go above and beyond expectations. 
"Liz is a good-natured, friendly person. I feel like I know the q uali lies needed to be a solid CEA, and Liz has got them," Baron said, refer­ring to his own experience as this year's CEA for current student body president and viee president Adam Istvan and Karla Bell. 
In other COR news: 
+ Assistant direetor of the Student Activities Ofnee Peggy llnatusko announced that her office is seeking nominations for Student Leadership Awards. 
"This is a big honor. If you are selected it means you are in the top 1 pnrcent of student lnaders," she said. 
Tho deadline for Student Leadership Awards applica­tions is March 16. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 
Performer addresses gay issues 

Work for News. Call 1-5323. 


By KATE ANTONACCI 
Associate News Ediror 
To kick off Notre Dame's first Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning (GLBQ) Awareness week, local per­former Bradley Bogaert spoke Monday about living as a gay man in South Bend. 
Bogaert, a 1979 graduate of' Marian High School in South Bend who currently works at Truman's Night Club as a drag queen, dis­cussed coming out, gay bash­ing and drug and alcohol problems. lie himself suf­fered from a drug and alco­hol addiction from age 16 to 
36. In 1996, he entered a six­month rehabilitation pro­gram, which led him to sobri­ety. 
"I was doing drugs and thought I was the best enter­tainer there was," Bogaert said. "IBut] I have never been happier being sober." 
After discussing his person­al struggles, Bogaert said he also had to deal with the many societal struggles that come with being gay. 
"They say being gay is a choice. I wish it was a ehoice,'' Bogaert said. "I would choose l.o, and every­one's going to hate me for saying this, be straight. There are times I love to be gay.' b.~t it really isn't a choice. 
Despite these difficulties, Bogaert said that gay, les­bian, bisexual or transgender individuals today live in a far more welcoming soeiety than that of his youth. 
"People today have so many opportunities that we didn't have," Bogaert said. "Still, I'm proud to be what I am. I 
"Thanks to the favor God showed tne I laid a foundation as a wise tnaster-builder tnight do, and now someone else is building upon it." ( 1 Cor 3: 10) 




vocation.nd.edu 
ANSWER~ 
THE CALL \t!>' 

love being gay." make that !sexual orienta­
According to event organiz­tion! question a little more ers, many University oflieials comfortable to me," Gomberg thought that it was important said. to have Bogaert speak on GLBQ Week eame about campus. through efforts by the Senate 
"The administrators that I Diversity Committee and stu­spoke with personally were dent body president Adam fairly enthusiastic about his Istvan, Vierig said. coming, as they realized he Though Boganrt was asked would be dealing with many to speak on eampus snvnral taboo subjects that perhaps weeks ago, ol'fieial approval haven't been discussed in a for the event was not granted meaningful way," said Chris until Thursday afternoon, Vierig, organ-said Gomberg, izer of the who asked week and " h b · Bogaerl to give
member of the T ey say emg gay 
tho talk. 

s e n a t e is a choice. I wish it While Vinrig Diversity was a choice. " said it was dif'fi­Committee. cu It to get the "For exam­University to
Bradley Bogaert 
ple, it was very approve Bogaert important for featured speaker to speak on 
gay, lesbian and bisexual students to hear the story of a gay man who was addicted to drugs and alcohol but who overcame his eircumstances to find his true identity," Vierig said. 
Several audience members seemed offended by parts of his talk, sueh as diseussions about drug and alcohol use, gay bashing, prostitution and pornography. Others ques­tioned Bogacrt's choice to eall on audience members to ask about their sexual orien­tation, 
"Personally, my support of GLBTQ rights has nothing at all to do with whether I am hetero or homosexual, it has to do with human rights and civil rights at large," said Anna Gomberg, graduate stu­dent and co-coordinator of the unofficial student group AllianceND. "I think that stu­dent leaders working in this arena have a different responsibility to realize that this is a question that is real­ly hard for someone who is questioning or eloseted." 
However, the audience responded positively to Bo'gaert's often humorous speaking style, which made discussion of diffieult topics easier. 
"His entertaining style is very candid and upfront, and his willingness to disclose his own orientation seemed to 
eampus, lhn 

event's turnout was greater than expected. Although the plan nnrs expected a core group of' gay, lesbian and bisexual students to como, they said they were pleased to see many straight students attnnd. 
"Overall, I think the University is, however, open to a multiplieity of opinions and welcomes numnrous dis­eussions of various diseours­es so (hat studnnts may engage in a eritieal thought proeess of' thnir own beliefs," Vicrig said. "This: I believe, is at the heart of any uniVI1r­sity ndueation." 
On Wndnesday, other events for GLBQ Awarennss Week will take placn, inelud­ing students wearing orange shirts to support gay, lesbian and bisexual students on eampus and Theology on Tap discussing homosexuality within a Catholic context at. Legends at 10 p.m. 
The l'ilm "In and Out" will be screened Thursday in tho LaFortune Ballroom. Additionally, The Laramie Project, a play about tho murder of gay eollege studont Matthew Sheppard, will be performed today, W11dnesday and Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
~u\red· 

eC'c;e r "ge~lL~r\.
er\e•"' ' ·~-. . ~ r' 
f\or c;"e . 
fAe": tao" And Cheerleader Tryouts 2005 
Information Meeting March 15@ 5:30 p.m. Gym 2 (above Gate 10 of the Joyce Center). All are welcome -come see what cheerleading at Notre Dame is all about. ... 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 1, 2005 
BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 


Relief effort, new Student Center celebrated 
Welton presented the final By KELLY BALE and ERICA check to history professor Dr. RANGEL Cyriac Pullapilly. 
News Writers . 
Pullapilly will pass the Saint Mary's funds onto the Salesian 
Meeting for the last time in Fathers of India, who help the conference room of the raise and educate orphans and Haggar Student Center, Saint street children. Mary's Board of Governance "All of the student body celebrated on Monday its move cooperated and contributed ... to the new Student Center and we should keep up this spirit," the end of its "Love Makes the Pullapilly said. "I thank you on World Go Round, Show Your behalf of the Salesian Brothers Love" tsunami relief campaign. for the people of India who will 
"I know we were a little iffy benefit from this." at first," student body presi­Pullapilly continued, "It's dent Sarah Catherine White such an amazing thing. I am so said. "But we pulled through proud of these girls for putting and we are well beyond our together a successful cam­goal." paign. It says a lot about the 

Student body vice president ladies that come to Saint Mary Pauline Moran attributed Mary's." went to each dorm room ask­sion" tonight at 8 p.m. in the much of the fundraiser's suc­White, Moran and Welton ing each resident for $1. Le Mans Lobby. cess to the theme "Show Your also presented BOG with a BOG approved a co-sponsor­+ Saint Mary's Alumnae will 
Love" and because the cam­poster that will be signed by ship through the Student be on campus from March 14­paign lasted the entire month members and displayed in the Academic Council for three 20. Alumnae will participate in of February. new student center thanking seniors and three freshmen activities like Midnight 
"I think the fact that we students for the funds they from the Social Work Madness and will also attend waited was good, it gave raised. Department to travel to Mexico lunch with current students everyone a chance to reflect on White also acknowledged during spring break. The stu­throughout the week. the event," Moran said. "I Welton, whom White said put a dents will be attending the El + The second part of Senior think people wanted to donate large amount of work into Salvador Encounter where Formal tickets are being sold 
but didn't know when or organizing the fundraiser and they will do service work and this week. Money is due where Ito donate] and this pro­helping it run smoothly. attend various workshops. A Wednesday and table signups vided them with the opportuni­BOG placed containers in brown bag luJJ.ch presentation are due on Friday. ty." each of the residence halls and about their trip is scheduled 
BOG's gQal of $1341, or $1 other locations on campus to for when they return. per student, was nearly dou­collect donations. A face-to­Contact Kelly Bale at bled with a final total of face collection was also done In other BOG news: kbaleO1@saintmarys.edu and $2610.10. White, Moran and in a series of three "Night + Student Activities Board will Erica Rangel at executive treasurer Molly Knocks." Members of BOG hold a "write the troops ses-rang4716@saintmarys.edu 
Director named for Master of Science Program 
Special to the Observer  University of Wisconsin at Green Bay.  organizations. The program was restructured in 2001 to include a  Education named Harvey one of the 51 leaders in the field of social  
Thomas J. Harvey has been  "Tom's experience, network,  core curriculum of courses on  work during the past 50 years.  
appointed director of the Master  energy, and vision will be  a  grant writing, development,  Harvey earned his bachelor's  
of Science in Administration  tremendous asset for the MSA  financial management, market­ degree in philosophy from St.  
(MSA) Program in the Mendoza  Program and for efforts of the  ing, accounting, human resource  Charles Borromeo College in  
College  of Business  at  the  College of Business and Notre  management, communications,  Philadelphia, master's degrees in  
University of Notre Dame.  Dame to serve the needs of the  ·  and ethics, all tailored for the not­ sacred  theology  from  the  
Harvey most recently served as  nonprofit sector," said Carolyn Y.  for-profit sector.  Gregorian University in Rome  
senior vice-president of the mem­ Woo, Martin J. Gillen Dean of the  Harvey, who has held a variety  and in social planning and com­ 
ber  service  division  at  the  College.  of professional and social service  munity  organization  from  
Alliance  for  Children  and  Established in 1954, the MSA  positions for 35 years, served as  Columbia University, and a certifi­ 
Families in Milwaukee.  He also  program is designed to hone the  president of Catholic Charities  cate in nonprofit management  
taught in a certificate program on  administrative leadership skills of  USA from 1982 to 1992.  In  from the Wharton School at the  
nonprofit management for the  people working in social service  2003, the Council on Social Work  University of Pennsylvania.  

Bush 
continued from page 1 
using our facility," Storin said. "The original interest was, I think, more coming to South Bend than Notre Dame." 
Storin said the Century Center downtown was not available for the president's visit in the necessary time­frame, so the JACC was the next best option. 
However, Storin added that while the president's visit will have no more connection to Notre Dame than the rental of the JACC, the Univer.sity will be making all conven­iences available to the presi­dent in the facility. 
"We're working with them -he is the president of the United States," Starin said. 
Starin said he could not comment on any additional security measures or restric­tions related to the upcoming visit. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

DEBARTOLO 
PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
NCE

SPRING 
ARTSfest I 


TWO WEEKS OF MUSIC, FilM, THEATRE, AND DISCUSSION 
, THE NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF FilM~ TELEViSION, ANO THEATRE PRESENTS 




Fire alartn interrupts reception 
By KATIE PERRY News Writer 
University donors were sur­prised to learn they would be asked to evacuate the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts during a recep­tion Friday evening due to a false lire alarm. 
The Edward Frederick Sorin Society, which honors those who annually give $1,000 or more to Notre Dame, was in the middle of a function in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DPAC when the fire alarm went off and guests were forced to leave the premises until safety could be assured. 
Manager of Guest Services Jacqueline Schmidt' said the alarm went off at 7:30 p.m. 
"Our staff followed all of our standard procedures appropri­ately and efficiently and evacuat­ed the building," Schmidt said. "Once we had accounted for all of our guests and confirmed that there was no threat to their safe­ty, we brought everyone back in and resumed all of our scheduled activities." 
According to Megan O'Hara, a member of the event staff, a spe­dal efli~ct used in the play "The Laramie Project" caused the lire alarm to falsely sound. The two evenL<> took place at simultaneous times in the building. 
"There is a scene that uses fog, 

• and apparently that is what set oil' one of the alarms below the stage in the Decio Theater," O'Hara said. 
Despite the inconvenience, Schmidt said the guests made no complaints and in fact gave com­plimenL<> regarding how well the situation was handled. 
"It should've been mass chaos, but actually we got people reseat­ed for the Laramie Project fairly quickly, and the actors didn't miss a beat," O'Hara said. "The Sorin Society performance was almost over anyway so the people just finished with the reception in the PAC lobby." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 

~UNIVF..RS. ITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
THE LARAMIE PROJEO 
BY MOISEs KAUFMAN DIRtcrfD BY ANTON JUAN DE<IO MAIMSTAGE THEATRE fEBRUARY 22.:.. MARCH 3 TICKETS Sl2, $10 fACULTY/STAff, SlO SENIORS, 58 All STUDENTS The1998murder of Matthew Shepo1d has become oo icon of intclertlfiCe. In respoose to the brutol event The lnramie Project mprures !he lulhotoot 
emotions of the resideots of lllromie, Wyomi11iJ. haunted by the reooty !hot ccllectively they hod rmsed !he soos who <oold shaw such hote.lt iS astory of of great sadness, gteotbeouty end, perl1nps most itnp~ttontly,t·.·.. 
great tev~c~oos 
. . ··v:·-::: 

DEAD MAN WALKING 
BY TIM ROBBINS 

DJRfaED BY SIIRt SCOTT AND JAY SKflfOH 
PHILBIN STUOlO THEATRE 
fEBRUARY 26 -MARCH 2 

TICKEIS $12,$10 FACUUY!STAFF, SlO SENIORS, S8 All STUDENTS 
This fosclnaling ood powetft.d ~!!'{ explores the telulionship belWem o 
condemned young {orMd and !he 1100 who coonsets him in !he doys leading 
upto his exewHoo ft~ ampe ond bmrol dooble mutd«. 
. ..•·,.$-,;· :;;:%~ 
CONCERNS PRESENTS 
...·· SS! . . .... ,~-P~~t&~;-,. CONCIUATJON?.• 
ge H, lYon of loois Theotrt . 
?i%1lfiWil1;>fo18v • ··:_{f#f:X ·;.; 
FOR TICKETS CALL THE TICKET OFFICE AT 574.63L2SOO VISfT Hm;//PERFORMINGARlS.NO.EDU/ARTSFEST.SHTMl 







ORLD & NATION 
Tut'sday, March I, 2005 CoMPILED FROM T!..IE ()ssr:RVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran's nuclear secrecy criticized 
VII·:NNA. Austria-Tlw ehinf U.N. atomie watl'hdog chidnd Iran on Monday for dnlays in divulging kny information about its nurlnar program. saying tlw onus is on TPhran to ovPrconw a "r~onl'idnn!'.!l dnfkit" causrHI hy past l'ovnr-ups. 
As MohammPd Jo:IBaradni critidznd Iran at a rnnPt.ing ol' tho lntf'rnational Atomic Jo:norgy Ag.-nr:y, tlw Bush administration suggnstrHI it was r:onsidPring a major stralngy shirt ­joining l·:uropl' in ofTPring Tnhran Pl'onomir iJH'PntivPs to aband(m its uranium Pnrir:h­mPnt program. 
Hussia. nwanwhiln, sought to dismiss nm­r:Pms that an Iranian nuclnar rr1a!'tor it built and will supply with f'twl could he usr1d to dnwlop wnapons. Tlw <H'eonl signnd Sunday is kny to bringing TPhran's first rnador on linP. 
Bin Laden, al-Zarqawi plan attacks 
WASIIINC;TON -Nr1w intnlligrmcn indieatns lhat Osama bin l.adPn is r1nlisting Ahu Musab ai-Zarqawi, his top opnrativn in Iraq. to plan potPntial attacks on tlw Unitnd Statns. l'ndnral ollkials said Monday. 
i\1-Zarqawi has benn involwd in al.taeks in thn Middl.-l~ast. lin has not bnnn known to haw sl'l his sighlo.; on Anwrka. 
Th11 llorrwland Sn!'urity I>Ppartnwnt issund a dassifi.-d hullntin to oflidals ov11r tlw wnnknnd about llw intPIIigPIH:n, whir:h spokr1snuur Brian Hodrrkass,. dnsr:rilwd as "erndibln hut not spn­dlk." Tho intPIIigPncP was obtained over tlw past snwral wr1r1ks. thn oflir:ials said. 
ThP govnmnH•nt has no immndiatn plans to raisP ilo.; national tPrTor alnrt lnvnl. Honhrkassn said. But. h.-said, tlw intnllignnr:n "rr1itnratns Llw dr'sir.-hy al-<)aida and ilo.; asso!'.iatns to tar­gPtthP honwland." 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Suspect cannot be held indefinitely 
WASIIIN<;TON-A fednral judge ordnrnd !.1111 Bush administration Monday to nithnr chargn tnrrorism suspect Josn Padilla with a c.rimn or rrdnasn him af'tnr morn than two and a hall' yPars in eustody. 
U.S. l>istl'il't .fudge llnnry Floyd in Spartanburg. S.C., said thn govrli'IIIIJnllt can­not hold Padilla indnf1nitnly as an "nrHHIIY com hatanl," a dosignation l'rnsidont Bush gavP him in 2002. 
"Tiw r:ourl linds that llw prnsidnnt has no powPr, rwillwr nxpress nor implied, neillwr r:onstitulional nor statutory. to hold petition­PI' as an Pnnn1y c:ombatant," Floyd wroto in a 23-pagP opinion that was a storn robukn to thP govPrnnH•nt. liP gavn tho adrninistmtion 4!i days to takr> ar:tion. 
Concerns aired over Medicaid cuts 
WASIIINCTON-Tlw Bush administra­tion's proposal to f"Ul sonw $40 billion from MPdir:aid would rPdur:P ar:r:oss to lwalth r:ar11 for tlw poorPst Anwrir:ans, govnrnors said Monday af'LPr IIIPPling with tlw pt11sident. 
"I lis hu.1lglll would havn a dramatic pf'f'nct on l.lw lwalth r:arn ol' millions of Amnricans," said I>Pmor:rat Mark Warnnr of Virginia. 
Add11d ltr1publir:an Bob Tart or Ohio: "Tho governors arn vPry rwrvous about agrrwing to any sp11nding ruts." 
Sorrw govPrnors. hownvm·. said l.hny real­izPd tlwy rwnntually must r:ompromisr~. but thnir biggnr d11sir11 was to win l'r11ndonr. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Court sets convict's execution date 
INiliANAI'OLIS -Tlw Indiana Suprnmo Court today s!1L an April nxer:ution datn for a man r:onvictnd in tim I<JH7 torturn-slaying or an I H-ynar-old Tnrrn llautn woman. 
Bill .1. BnnnliPI, 4H, is sdwdulnd to bo put to dnath by lnthal injnr:tion April 21 at tho Indiana State Prison in Michigan City. lie rn1~11ived tho dnath snntnnr:n in I <JHH ror killing llolor11s Wnlls of Term llautn. 
Tlw U.S. Suprenw Court in November dedirwd to hnar Bnrwfinl's appoal in what was his final app11al. 
IRAQ 

115 killed in suicide car bombing 
Attack is the single deadliest the country has seen since the fall of Saddam Hussein 
Associated Press 

IIILLAII  -Tho pile of  
sandals and shons told part  
or thn story. So did  the  
blood splattrwnd high  on  a ·  
wall  and  pooled  in  tlw  
stnwt. Tlwn thnre was tlw  
bomber's car, or what was  
lert ol' it ­ a twisted ongino  
block and ruinr~d frame.  
Most  telling  was  tho  
wonping rolativns or thn  
dnad and th11 maimnd.  
In  the dnadlinst singlo  
attack  since  tho  rail  ol'  
Saddam llussnin, a suicide  
car bombrw killed  I 15 peo­ 
ple and woundPCI  132 on  
Monday, mostly polir~n  and  
army rceruits lined up  ror  
physicals at a mmlkal din­ 
ic. Tho nxplosion in this  
largnly ShiitP Muslim town  
about 60 milns south  or  
Baghdad  presentnd  the  
boldest challnngn ynt to  
Iraq's nf'forts  to ·build  a  
snr:urity !'oren that ean take  
ovt~r from tlw Americans.  
Sonw or tho vielims worn  
shoppers or vnndors from a  
rwarby outdoor stm11t. mar­ 
ket sPIIing produce, sand­ 
wkhns and othnr food. But  
most were recruits wailing  
outside tlw elinie.  
"I  was lur:ky because I AP  
was thn last person in linn An unidentified woman grieves at the scene after a suicide bomber blasted a crowd  
whnn thn explosion took of police and national guard recruits outside a clinic in Hillah on Monday. The dead­ 
place. SuddPnly thnre was liest attack since the end of the war left at least 115 dead and 133 injured. 
panic and many frightened  
people stepped on mn. I lost  Empty shoos and sandals  gnts.  r:ivil  war as Ayatollah al­ 
consciousness and tho next  of those killnd  or wounded  The  Shiites  have  Sistani has said," said .Jalal  
thing I was aware of was  worn thrown into a corner.  rcf'rai ned  from  striking  i•:ddin al-Saghrwr. a sPnior  
being in the hospital," said  Scorch  marks  infused  back  - mostly  at  tho  dnrie and mPmlwr ol' tim  
Muhsin I ladi, 29, a recruit.  with blood covered the din­ behest  or  their  most  SuprPnw Coundl for tlw  
One of his legs was brokrm  ic's walls. Morgue workers  revered  leader,  Grand  lslamk rPvolution in Iraq.  
in thn blast.  unloaded plastic body bags  Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani,  Allianen  lr~adnr  Ahdnl  
Angry crowds gathnr:ed  from  pickup  trur:.ks  as  who is,widnly credited with  Aziz  al-llakim  rnr~nntly  
outside the main hospital,  weeping relatives looked  bringing them this far. AI­ hint11d that thn Shiitns wPm  
chanting "Allah Akbar,"  on.  Sistani wants nothing to  waiting  to  takP  pownr  
Arabic for "God is great,"  Thn bombing r:omos at a  impede thn Shiites l'rorn  boforn dnaling with  tlw  
demanding to know their  time when tho Sunni Arab  gaining the polilir:al pownr  insurgnney. lin indir:atPu  
rr~lativns' fate. Pnopln at thn  insurgency is trying to dis­ thny havn eravnd in Iraq,  that a first stnp would ill' to  
sitn or tho attaek roportndly  rupt tho formation or a new  and will not allow tlwrn to  idnntil'y and purgn the secu­ 
chantnd slogans against tho  government sot to be led by  ongagn in a snetarian war.  rity serviens ol' any insLII"­ 
"Wahhabis," rnl'orring to  majority Shiites for the lirst  It's not that tlwy lack tho  gnney sympathizers.  
adlwrrmts or the striet form  timn in modern history.  firnpower -nominally dis­ "We must dnpPnd  on  tlw  
of  Islam  prear:hnd  by  Iraqi fon~es  are eventually  bandPd Shiito militias 1~ould  sons oI' tlw I r a q i peo pIP  
Osama bin Laden.  supposed  to  takn  over  easily l'irl\d thousands or  who  bnlieve in  thn  nPW  
Dozrms of pnople steppPd  responsibility for snr:urity  tough and Pfl'nctivn lightPrs  Iraq, and not on  thosn had  
through  small  lakes  or  the kny to Washington's exit  that could dnal a crushing  nlnmnnts that infiltratnd tlw  
blood tha.t poolMI  on  tho  stratngy ­ but they rnmain  blow to the insurgrmey.  security cirdes and turrwd  
stroot to rotriovo shattornd  undnr-nquippnd, ill-pro­ "We saerif'ir:nd  a  lot ol'  into a  probiPm," al-llakim  
limbs, sPvnrnd  fenl and  pared to f'ight insurgents  blood,  we  havP  to  bo  told Tlw J\ssodatPd Press  
hands.  and often mako easytar­ pationt and not drift into a  on Sunday.  

LEBANON 

Prime minister resigns amid protest 
Syria remained silent about the their ground and lwld it-tlwy
Associated Press 

rapidly changing atmosphere in plannnd to stay in Martyrs' Square 
BEIHUT -With shouts of "Syria Beirut. where Damascus ruled unop­again Monday night. And likn out!" 25,000 protnsters massnd out­posed for years, evnn deciding on tho Ukrainn, thnir movmnnnt had tradn­sidn Parliament in a dramatic display Lebanon's leaders. mark colors: tho bright red and of d11Iianee Monday that forced out But tho dramatic developments -white of the Lebannsn l'lag, wavnd LPbanon 's pro-Syrian prime ministm rominiseent of Ukraine's poaeoful high in tho air and worn as a scarf. and Cabinot. "orange rovolu ti01( and broadeast Thn Whitn llousn wnleomnd 
Minutes af'tnr Primo Ministor Omar live across the Arab world -eould Karami's resignation, saying it opens Karami announced hn was stnpping provoko a strong response from thn door for nnw nlndions that are down, jubilant demonstrators -Syria, whieh kenps 15,000 tmops in "frnn of all fornign intnrfernnr~r~" shouting, waving flags and handing Lebanon. It also could plunge this from Syria, but called again on rPd roses to soldinrs -dmnandod nation or 3.5 million back into a peri­Damascus to pull out its soldiPrs. that Syrian-baeked President Emile od of uneortainty. political vaeuum or "Syrian military forces and intelli­Lahoud bow out, too, and pressnd on worse. gnnee pnrsonnnl nnnd to leave tlw 
with thnir calls for Syria to withdraw Like their eounterparts in Ukraine, country," White House spokesman its troops from thn country. the Lebanesn demonstrators took Scott McClellan said. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 1, 2005 
Council 
continued from page 1 

Vagina Monologues was housed under an academic department only. 
"It is not and has never been the role of the Ollice of Student Affairs to officially 'approve' particular speakers or events hosted by academic depart­ments," Poorman said in the let­ter. 
Poorman also said he saw the CLC's resolution as seeking "to circumvent the club recognition process by asking the Office of Student Affairs to endorse the activities of an unrecognized student group." 
"This [Poorman's response! is no surprise," said student body president Adam Istvan, who dis­agreed with Poorman's state­ment that the CLC was under­handedly trying to win the administration's support for a spocilic group. 
"We're not asking them to approve a group, but to endorse an ideal," he said. 

Istvan continued to express frustration with the administra­tion's lack of visible support for the V-Day campaign by describ­ing an explicit reference in the 'stall notes' of a men's dorm he did not identify. 
"The defense to this type of action, given by the rector, was 'boys will be boys,"' Istvan said. "I don't think the administration really gets the problem here." 
According to Istvan, this inci­dent was indicative of prevail­ing sexist attitudes at Notre Dame, and of the council's inability to combat them. 
"We have no powers beyond what we did [passing the V-Day resolution]." Istvan said. "I don't know what we can do from here." 
Several members expressed concern that Istvan had placed too much emphasis on a con­nection between the adminis­tration's failure to endorse The Vagina Monologues and the dorm incident. 

"I don't think the two events are as strongly correlated as you make them out to seem," Cavanaugh senator Jordan Bongiovanni said. 
Knott rector Brother Jerome Meyer agreed with Bongiovanni, saying, "To say all the administrators of the University don't understand the problem, that's a sweeping accusation." 
Siegfried senator James Leito said he felt most disheartened with the resolution's lack of impact. 
"My fundamental problem with this group is that it's always been a suggestion box group," Leito said. "That's one of the greatest weaknesses of this group as a whole." 
Despite this dissatisfaction, other members emphasized the fundamental importance of the CLC passing the resolution. 
"I think it was an important step to make a proclamation," said J.T. Arseniadis, co-chair of the Hall Presidents Council. "You have to take the good with the bad. The vulgarities that you mentioned in the stall notP.s, that's what we're fighting -we're trying to move away from that." 
Carroll rector Father Jim Lewis supported Arseniadis's opinion about the gradual improvements taking place in student government and on campus. 
"I think as a campus, we're growing. We're not necessarily where we need to be, but we're moving in a healthy direction," Lewis said. 
David Moss, assistant vice president for Student Affairs, said the council should have considered the administration's likely response more carefully when members crafted the V­Day resolution. 
"I think when we brought out the resolution to discuss -was it just there to push Student Affairs in a certain direction, or to have an effect on campus?" Moss asked. 
He continued, "I saw that the administration would have a problem with The Vagina Monologues ... I was a little sur­prised when that change !strik­ing the Monologues from the CLC's resolution I didn't pass." 
Moss stressed that members of the CLC would have to com­promise with the administration if they wanted to have an impact on campus. 
Istvan countered Moss's com­ment. . 
"I think there's certain issues you can't compromise on," Istvan said. "There's no room for half-steps towards the goal." 
Dillon rector Father Paul Doyle said that for him, the decision to vote against the res­olution was simple. 
"I listen to the bishop -he's our pastor," Doyle said. "If it lthe playJ teaches something contrary to Catholic teaching, I can't support that, and I don't know how Catholics can." 
Bongiovanni suggested the possibility of Notre Dame taking an approach similar to sa'int Mary's, which created its own version of the Monologues that was deemed acceptable by Bishop John D'Arcy of the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese. 
"Maybe that's an avenue stu­dents want to consider," Bongiovanni said. 
Regarding Istvan's comment on Poorman~s supposed misunc derstanding of the CLC's intend­ed purpose of the resolution, Bongiovanni said future prob­lems in interpretation could be alleviated if Poorman was pres­ent at meetings. 
"Since we are the advisory group to Father Poorman ­shouldn't he be here?" Bongiovanni asked. 
Lewis noted that Moss serves as a representative from Student Affairs and Poorman does attend one CLC meeting per year. 
In other CLC news: 
+ Members discussed issues involving transition and dorm elections. Senate Judicial Council president Brin Anderson said there had been conflict between Judicial Board members and rectors resulting from miscommunication over election dates. 
"I don't see. the need for every dorm to hold it on the same day -just tell us when you need it, we'll get the names to you," Doyle said, 
Anderson said it had been hard to find a balance between allowing rectors to choose their own election dates and follow­ing the constitution. Further debate was postponed until the next meeting. 
+ The "Flex 10" resolution has been received by Poorman and director of Food Services Dave Prentkowski, Istvan said. 
"1 can't give a timetable, but I assume sometime after break we'll hear back from Student Affairs," Istvan said. 
+ The vending task force chaired by Leito presented a resolution regarding laundry and vending prices that was passed unanimously after slight changes to certain clauses. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


Response 
continued from page 1 

come to visit our campus," Ronderos said. "I am really excited about prospect of pass­ing tax reform and social securi­ty reform. I hope that the presi­dent speaks on these issues." 
According to Rondoros, the College Republicans are plan­ning to attend the event itself in order to display their support for the president. 
Anthony Salpino, a freshman member of the College Republicans, has made plans to see Bush speak at the JACC. 
"I was pretty interested when I found out he was coming, but I was surprised at how little pub­licity he got," Salpino said. "It was only mentioned briefly in one email from the College Republicans, and then I had to do a Google search to lind out the president was actually com­ing." 
While Salpino and other stu­dents will show their support for Bush and his stances, others have made preperations to protest the president's appear­ance. 
Junior Jim Fobert, a member of the College Democrats and Progressive Student Alliance, altered his spring break travel plans upon receiving word of Bush's visit to Notre Dame. 
"1 was plannillg on leaving for spring break on Thursday evening, but when I found out [Monday I that he was coming here, I changed my mind," Fobert said. "I will be here for his visit on Friday, most likely to . protest." 
Fobert and other students will have ample opportunity to voice their opposition to Bush as some on-campus groups plan to demonstrate upon the presi­dent's arrival. 
According to co-president Nicola Bunick, the College 
Democrats are working together with a coalition of other campus groups -such as the Peace Coalition and the Progressive Student Alliance -in order to voice disapproval for Bush's budget proposal and speak out about concerns regarding the proposed social security plan. 
"The President's visit is a prime opportunity for us to gen­erate dialogue on campus and in the South Bend community about some of the important issues at stake during this term," Bunick said. "We want to ensure that all sides of the debate are adequately repre­sented." 
Faeulty offered their own per­spectives on Bush's visit. 
Political science professor Peri Arnold said he believes the pri­mary motivation of the speech is to garner support for the presi­dent's reformed social security plan, which was first unveiled during Bush's inaugural address last month. 
"Republican members of Congress are discovering a great deal of resistance among constituents to changes in social security that would include pri­vate accounts and large increas­es in the federal debt," Arnold said. "Bush's hope is to try to lend his more visible weight to this effort." 
Rodney Hero, political science department chair, expects local political figures to accompany Bush as he pushes for his new plan. 
"I assume he'll have Mitch Daniels and/or other local politi­cians appear with him, such as Governor [Mitch] Daniels, [Rep. Chris] Chocola, maybe [Michigan Rep.] Fred Upton," Hero said. 
The White House has not con­firmed whether or not local politicians will join the president Friday. 
According to Arnold, Bush's motivation for possibly incorpo­r·ating local congressional lead­ers like Chocola is to secure leg­islative backing. 
"Chocola has been up front as a supporter of social security privatization, but it may be that IBush) is becoming more wary of his support, having discov­ered significant resistance among constituents," Arnold said. 
Assistant professor of political science John Griffin said it is hard to discern whether the visit will be equally beneficial for Chocola and his own political status in the area. 
"Given Bush's popularity in the region, it can only help Chocola," Griffin said. "On tho other hand, the next congres­sional election is nearly two, years away, so any boost for Chocola will likely have dissipat­ed by then. You also have to pre­sume that in two years' time that it will still be a good thing to be associated with the prnsi­dent, and a lot can happen in Iraq and in the economy over that long period." 
While Chocola and other local Republican leaders are expected to greet Bush with a warm reception, the Notre Dame com­munity's response is not as dear. 
Hero said that Bush's history with the University -in con­junction with an expected inte­gration of Catholic ideals in his rhetoric -will likely lead to a cordial welcome. 
"My sense is NO has been seen as hospitable toward this president -he was the com­mencement speaker in May 2001," Hero said. "He may be seeking to implicitly link some of his policies to ideas attractive to Catholics." 
University spokesman Matt Storin said Monday that the president's visit is not affiliated with Notre Dame. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 

?h'e Department of Art, Art History and Design
.. 
is pleased to announce its annual competition for the 
Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism. 
Current Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students are invited to submit essays on any topic in the history of art or art criticism for consideration in the competition. Essays must deal with the visual arts. They may have been written in conjunction with a course taken at the University, but need not have been. 
Rules governing the competition are available in the Art Department Oflice, 306 Riley Hall. 
Two copies of the submission must be delivered to the Art Department Office by 
3:00 PM, Monday, March 21st to be eligible. 
THE OBSERVER 


USINESS
Tuesday, March I , 2005 
page 7 
·~==~~~~======================================================= 

Dow 
10,766.223 -75.37
}ones 
up: 1,305  Same: 144  Down: Composite Volume: • 1,775,105,408  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&PSOO  I ,509.44 2,051. 72 7,321.23 1,203.60  -7.04 -13.68 +40.66 -7.77  

NIKKEI(Tokyo) II ,740.60 +82.'35 FTSE IOO(London) 4,968.50 -38.30 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTRSERI(QQQQ) -1.06 -0.40 37.22 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.36 -0.09 25.16 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.42 -0.10 23.99 YAHOO INC (YHOO) + 1.70 +0.54 32.27 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) + 1.28 +0.22 17.42 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.38 +0.64 47.06 I0-YEAR NOTE +2.04 +0.87 43.59 5-YEAR NOTE +2.41 +0.94 39.95 3-MONTH BILL +0.56 +0.15 26.90 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.26 51.75 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) + 1.50 436.10 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0. 78 89.38 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 04.5500 EURO 0.7553 POUND 0.520 I CANADIAN$ 1.2331 
IN BRIEF 
Former CEO denies role in scandal 
NI·:W YOHK-B1wnard Ebbers took the stand 
at his trial Monday and flatly denind any rolf1 in 
tlw $11 billion accounting scandal that sank 
WorldCom, tnlling jurors his "marks wernn't too 
good" in school and that hn knows very little 
about ac1:ounting. 
The fornwr WorldCom CEO said he faneied 
hirnsPlf as "eoarh" of thn eompany and left the 
nurnbnrs-1·.runching to lilrmnr linanm ehinf Seott 
Sullivan. 
Under qunstioning from his top lawyer, Ebbers nxplidtly refutnd earlier tnstimony from Sullivan, who dainwd that Ebbers pressured him to eook Uw hooks to meet Wall Street expectations. 
"I wasn't advisnd by Seolt Sullivan of anything ewr hPing wrong," l~bb11rs said. 
"lin's nevnr told nw lw made an entry that wasn't right. If lw had, we wouldn't bn horn today." 
The matter-of-fact dnnial was perhaps thn most dramatic monwnt to datn in the live-week-old trial of J<:bbnrs, who is accused of orchestrating the accounting fraud that plunged WorldCom into tho largnst bankrupky in U.S. history in 2002. 

Fears over inflation decrease stocks 
NEW YOHK -Stocks skiddnd Monday as investors, concernml about rising prices and tlw threat of inflation, look profits after last we1~k's three-day rally. Volatility in pharma­cnutical stocks and an analyst downgrade of Dow .Jonns industrial Cennral Motors Corp. also pressured the rnarkot. 
Frnsh worries about inflation arose arter tho Cornrnercn l>epartnwnt's latest reading on eonsunwr in1:orno and spending. Personal ineonw fell loss than oxpoctml in January, but spnnding was flat and core consumer pricns rose 0.3 percent -tho fastest rate in morn than thrno years. 
Hising oil priens wmn also a eoneorn, as a barrel or light crudn settlnd at $51.75, up 26 c1mts, on thn Now York Mercantile Exehango. Tlw confluence or nows, along with nnrvous­rwss about a ran of important economic data duo latnr in tlw wonk, triggered the slide. 
"Whnn you have the !Standard & Poor's 500 indoxl up thrnn days in a row likn wn had last wnnk, you'll dolinitoly son some monny coming orr tlw tahln," said Neil Massa, nquity tradnr at John I I ancock Funds. 


Federated will acquire May stores 
Stores will acquire the Macy's nan1e in an effort to create a nation wide brand 
Associated Press 

CINCINNATI -Fnderatnd Department Stores Inc. plans to doubl1~ its sizn by acquiring May Department Storns Co. in what amounts to an $11 billion bet that department stores have a future nvnn as consumers increasingly shop at dis­countel·s and speeialty stores. 
"We bnlinvn passionately that d11partmnnt storns have a very important place in tho evnr-l'orming, ever­changing retail nnviron­ment," Tnrry .1. Lundgren, Fndnratnd's chairman, prns­ident and chief executive said Monday in announcing the eash-and-stock deal. 
Many of May's depart­ment storns eventually will be convnrtod to thn Maey's name as Fnderatnd acceler­ates its strategy of crnating a nationwide brand that would give it pricing lever­age with suppliers. The transaction also would bring together the operator of Bloomingdale's with May's Marshall Field's, Lord & Taylor and Hecht's chains. 
Federated would not say how many jobs will bo cut or what the company would do in eases where it would control multiple department stores in malls. Analysts at Smith Barney estimates that when~ their parents Fndorated already is al advertiser, Lundgren 94 malls have stores with shopped, retail industry spreading the Maey's name said. Tho combined mmpa­Federated and May name­analyst Kurt Barnard said. to its regional-department ny will be in tho nation's top plates. lie said Lundgren has store groups, meaning that 6!> markets exeept. 
Tho company wants to driven Fndnrated to reach names inducting Lazarus, .Jacksonville, Fla. hear what regulators say out to young people with Rich's and Burdines will dis­The merger is tlw latest. about whother and how mnrehandise that appeals to appear this month. consolidation in tlw dnpart­many of thn ovnrlapping them, an approach that Lundgren said Fednrated nwnt storn industry, partie­stores will havn to be dosed Federatnd ean use for May's donsn't plan to change May ularly tlw mid-th~r sector as or sold, Lundgren said at a stores. store names before 2006, companies se(~k to reduct> news conference in New "It is working," Barnard, but then will rename its total advertising spending York. the presidnnt of Barnard's stores -and even some and other costs whiln gain­
Tho combined company Hetail Consulting Group, Bloomingdale's stores -as ing bargaining power with would have about 950 said from Nutley, N.J. "We Maey's. supplinrs. Just last department stores and an are seeing younger people That moans that May Novnmbor, Kmart Holding additional 700 bridal and 11ocking to the !Federated! store nanws ineluding Corp. agreed to buy Snars, formal wear stores. It would department stores." Fileno's, Foley's, Hecht's H01~buck & Co. lin· $1 I.5 bil­operate in every state Still, Fednrated eould facn and Kaufmann's could dis­lion. except Alaska, along with a big ehallenge in revitaliz­appear next year. And thnre may he mon1 Guam, Punrto Hico and the ing May, whose sales havn The nxtension of" tho dealmaking in tlw oiTing. District of Columbia. slipped, aeeording to Bob Maey's name takes advan­Saks IIH~. may sell or spin 
Department stores have Buchanan, an analyst with tage or its fame and also ofT its 111 id dIn-market been losing sales in part A.G. Edwards & Sons Ine. will allow Fnderatod to department storn division to because young people "It is not going to be easy to expand use of Macy's erndit concentrate on its Saks Fift.h regard them a~ tho places turn that around," he said. eards and beeome a nation-Avenue unit. 

Entrepreneur charged with tax evasion 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Teln-eommunka­tions entrnprerwur Walter Anderson was arrested and charged with evad­ing $200 million in federal and loeal taxes in what the govornmnnt said was the largest eriminal tax case ovnr against an individual in tho United Statns. 
The indictment announced Monday chargns Andnrson with hiding income from tax collectors through offshore corporations and bank accounts and claiming to be a Florida residnnt to avoid paying ineome taxes in Washington, D.C. 
Anderson, 51, also was accused of purchasing fine art and wine and having it shipped to Virginia to avoid paying Washington taxes, according to the indictment for fraud, tax nva­sion and obstrueting the IHS. 
Arrested Saturday, Anderson plead­ed not guilty Monday and was ordered held without bail until a hnaring Thursday. 
"lie was living the high life," said the Internal Revenue Sorvien commis­sioner, Mark Everson. "Bncause of his dishonest dealings, Mr. Anderson's lavish life style was subsidized by honest, hardworking Amerieans." 
If' convicted, Andorson could f'aee up to 80 years in prison. Messages left with his lawyer, John Moustakas of' Washington, wore not immodiately rnturnod Monday. 
In documents requesting Anderson's detnntion until trial, the 
government alleged he could bn linked to at least seven aliases and that orticials seized from his apart­mont forged idontilieation and manu­als detailing ways to ernate fake id!m­tilkation and hide from authorities. 
Among thnm wore "Pool"! llow to Disappoar and Croat!~ a Nnw Identity" and "The ID Forgor: llomomado Birth Certifieates and Other Docunwnts Explained," thn doeunwnt said. 
Anderson started a long distanen tnleeommunieations business at thn time the industry was bning deregu­lated. 
Whon his first eom pany nw rgnd with another eornpany in I <JIJ2, lm formed offshore corporations in the British Virgin Islands to hidn the income and mask his involvement. 
---------~--------------------, 
page 8 Tuesday, March 1, 2005
The Observer + NEWS 


Duerson 
continued from page 1 
sion this morning, so we'll see what transpires between now and April 28," he said. 
Activity on the ease could occur before this formal status conference date because Duerson chose to retain pri­vate r.ounsnl, Schill said. 
Tuszynski did not return calls seeking comment Monday. 
Duerson, 44, nl' Highland Park, Ill., is chargod with two eounts of battery and two counts of domestic battery in allegations stemming from a Feb. 3 incident at the Morris Inn on the Notre Dame cam­pus. 
All four of the charges arc Class A misdemeanln·s, carry­ing a maximum penalty of up to one year in jail and a $5,000 fine for each. 
According to the prosecutor's supplemental affidavit on the case, Duerson allegedly struck his wife, Alicia Duerson, and pushed her out of their hotel room during the early morning of Feb. 3. Alicia Duerson was treated at a loeal hospital and released, the proseeutor's statement said. 
The Duersons worn staying on campus for the wintnr meeting of the Board of Trustees, which was held Feb. 3-4. Dave Duerson, a trustne since 2001' resigned his post Feb. 4. 
Dave Duerson is also the president of the Monogram Club, but University spokesman Matt Storin said at the time of the charges that he expected Dave Duerson, the 1990 Monogram Club Member of the Year, to resign that post as well. 
Storin said Monday night that he was not sure if Dave Duerson had officially resigned as the president of the Monogram Club but that he did not expect him to retain his position. 
"We were told by his repre­sontatives that a letter was in the process of being done and he was going to resign," Storin said. 
Dave Duerson's two-year term expires in June, when .Julie Doyle is set to take over. Storin said tlw Monogram Club is not scheduled for any formal activity until its June menting. 
A 1983 Notre Dame gradu­ate, Davn Duerson played defensive back for the Irish from 1979-83 and still holds the all-time program record for career interception yardage. lie also served as tri­eaptain of the 1982 Irish team. 

After Notre Dame, Davf~ Duerson went on to win two Super Bowls in the NFL with the Chicago Bears (1985) and the New York Giants (1990). Dave Duerson was also well­known in the league for his service activities. lie was named thA 19S7 NFL Man of thA Year and 1988 NFL Humanitarian of the Year for his work with substanen abuse prevention and Special Olympics. 
He is also founder, president and CEO of Duerson Foods, LLC, a high-volume meat processor for major restau­rants and retail ehains. 
Dave Duerson was the 2001 recipient of the Sorin Award from the .Notre Dame Alumni Association. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu, Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Fourth 'Lavv and Order' series convenes 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -There was a time when even two seemed like a lot. But "Law & Order" didn't stop there. 
Taxing the show-biz adage "If they liked it once, they'll love it twice," NBC went beyond "Law & Order: Special Victims Unit" (started in 1999) and "Law & Order: Criminal Intent" (2001) to add yet a fourth edition, "Law & Order: Trial By Jury." ([t previews 10 
p.m. EST Thursday on NBC, with another episode 10 p.m. Friday in what will be its regu­lar slot.) 
"Trial By Jury" stars Bebe Neuwirth ("Cheers") as New York Assistant District Attorney Tracey Kibre. She is joined by Amy Carlson ("Third Watch") as Deputy Assistant District Attorney Kelly Gaffney. Kirk Acevedo ("Oz") plays Detective Hector Salazar, an investigator for the D.A.'s office who initially is paired with Detective Lennie Briscoe (played, of course, by Jerry Orbach, who in December died of prostate cancer at 69), then, after this week's episodes, teams up with D.A. Investigator Chris Ravell (Scott Cohen, of "NYPD Blue" and "Street Time"). 
As District Attorney Arthur Branch, "Law & Order" veter­an Fred Dalton Thompson will be a regular here, too. 
Under the rule of Dick Wolf, grand pooh-bah of the "Law & Order" empire, this latest entry bears an unmistakable family resemblance: The New York setting; the time-and-place title cards and "ba-bing" signature; a solemn mission statement with which each episode begins: "In the criminal justice system, the most important right is a trial by jury. This is one of those trials." Ba-bing! 
The newest variation on an ever-more-familiar theme, "Trial By Jury" proves most 
innovative in how it echoes the dualistic format of the original to a degree previous spinoff's never have. 
Through 344-and-counting episodes over 15 seasons, "Law & Order" has always done things by the book: nab­bing the bad guy in the first half, then hauling that scoundrel into court. On "Trial By Jury," a comparable sym­metry is achieved by tracking the opposing sides as the case unfolds. Each episode cross­cuts between the prosecutors and the defense team (made up of guest stars like Annabella Sciorra and Peter Coyote) as each side revs up for the courtroom clash. 
On Thursday's episode, will the prosecutors nail a Broadway producer for mur­dering his actress girlfriend'? On Friday, will a wily defense attorney win the jury's sympa­thy for his severely wounded client -a thug on trial for killing a cop who complains of police brutality'? 
Each case will be decided by hour's end. But a more sweep­ing verdict will be rendered in due time by a jury of viewers: Is "Trial By Jury" guilty of being one "Law & Order" too many? 
Is the saturation point in sight, particularly with TNT airing hours of old "Law & Order" episodes while ·reruns of "Special Victims Unit" and "Criminal Intent" unspool on USA? And forget cable. ln thrall to all things "Law & Order," NBC typically devotes nearly one-third of its prime time to the various shows ­and this week will blanket more than half its schedule with a "Law & Order" sprawl. 
One early clue to how the jury might be leaning: or the three established series, only "Special Victims Unit" is attracting more, not fewer, viewers now than a year ago. 
But there's a flip side to the threat of "Law & Order" overkill. Whatever the risk of hastening viewer fatigue, each new show further enriches the world all the series share. Even as they snugly coexist in New York City, they expand that realm. 
The boundaries of each series are a permeable mem­brane, so stories and charac­ters are free to roam. Already, crossover episodes of "Law & Order" cum "Trial By Jury" are in the works for this spring. 
Meanwhile, re-entering the franchise after a decade's absence is Christopher Noth, a charter "Law & Order" star who left in 1995 (along with his character, Detective Mike Logan, who was banished to a Staten Island precinct house). Starting next fall, Noth will share top bill with Vincent D'Onofrio on "Criminal Intent," shooting at the same Manhattan studio where he toiled on "Law & Order" for six seasons. 
Jerry Orbach transferred out of "Law & Order" after last season, his 12th. Like Briscoe, his beloved character, he was seeking lighter duty. Like Briscoe, he found it on "Trial By Jury" in a less demanding job. 
Then illness claimed Orbach. Now Briscoe, too. In a future episode, his passing will be noted by other "Trial By Jury" characters as they return from his memorial service -anoth­er example of "Law & Order" mirroring real life. 
"It was unspeakably sad to lose Jerry," Neuwirth said last week at the "Trial By Jury" studio in Queens. "But one of the great examples that Jerry set was a herc;ulean work ethic. It was beyond being a trouper." After his death, "that example made it not so daunt­ing for us to earry on." . 
As they carry on at "Trial By Jury," one cast member shut­tles between there and "Law & 

Welcome to Paradise! 
• 
Pre-leasing for the 2005-2006 school year 

•Studios 
and 1 and 2 bedroom apartments (574)272-8124 


ask Sherry for detai Is www.ai mco.com 


Order." 
"There have been days when I've shot scenes for both shows in the same day," Thompson said between setups in Branch's office -an exact duplicate of his office on the "Law & Order" stage in Manhattan. But as Thompson spoke, he was looking ahead to this week, when he expected to shoot scenes for both his regu­lar series, plus an appearance on "Special Victims Unit," which films at yet another stu­dio in North Bergen, N.J. 


Ryan 
continued from page 1 
about it," said Hyan, who couldn't understand how an innoc:ent man could sit on death row for !'6 years. 
Hyan concerns grew even more after the Chicago Tribune released revealing statistics about the death penalty in Illinois. Thn infor­mation eausod Hyan to believe tlw system was failing. 
Aeeording to t.he Tribune series, nnarly half of the capi­tal eases in Illinois went. baek for a retrial, 33 perc.nnt of the defendants wc~re rnpresented by lawyers who were later either disbarred or suspended and blacks were being con­victed by all white juries. 
In January 2000, more death row inmates wen1 exon­erated than executed in Illinois and this moved Hyan to action. 
"I did the only thing I could do," he said, which was to put an end to the death penalty in Illinois. 
He formed a commission to investigate the Illinois justice system, and after his evalua­tion of this thorough two-year study, Ryan decided they needed to fix the system. But after wrestling with the facts and figures, he concluded the system was, in fact, irrepara­ble. 
"There was no doubt that it was arbitrary, capricious, unjust, racist and unfair to the poor," said Hyan. 
Contact Tricia de Groot at pdegroot@nd.edu 
Tuesday, March I , 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
ISRAEL 
Court orders case to be reopened 
Auodatcd Press 
.ll•:tWSi\LJ<:M lsranl's Supnmw Court ordnrPd the mil­itary on Monday to n~open the 1:ase ol' a U.S. artivist who aceusnd Israeli troops ol' shoot­ing and snriously wounding him in tlw Wnst Bank two years ago without provocation. 
Brian i\vory. 26, ol' Chapel IIill, N.C., was shot in tlw l'ace in the Wost Bank town ol' Jp,nin on i\pril S, 20(U. 1111 was part. ol' a rontingnnt l'rom the "lntnrnational Solidarity Movnnwnt,'' a pro-Palnstinian group whoso aetivists often insnrt thnmsnlvos botwnen l'alnstinians and lsnwli l'orcns to disrupt military opnrations. 
i\vnry said hn and a collnague worn wnaring bright rnd doctor vnsts and worn standing still with tlwir hands ovP-r tlwir lwads wlwn soldil~rs in approaching military VP-hicles opnnnd l'iro with no warning shots. 
i\vory asked the court to order 
a criminal invnstigation, putting 
soldiers on trial. i\n internal 
army inquiry said his allegations 
were baseless. but the court 
ordered tho military to reopen 
the ease and take tnstimony. 
"I'm just happy that the 
judgns belinve the case requires 
l'urthnr m:tion," /\very said. . i\l'tnr six rnconstruetivn opnra­
tions on his l'aen, /\very's disabil­
itins l'rom thn shooting inelude 
impaired vision in his lol't eye 
and s1wnral missing tenth. 
Tlw army said Monday it 
rngrnts the pain caused to the 
i\vnry family and will follow tho 
Suprnmn Court's ruling. 
/\very's attorney, Miehael Sl'ard, said tho ruling "shows the military that even intnrnal inquiries should be managed prol'ossionally and with care to get testimony l'rom all sidns, not just l'rom military." 
"This coerces the military to change its stand on things," Sl'ard added. "This is definitely not usual." 
Human rights groups have eriticized the military during !'our years ol' Palnstinian-lsraoli violenee when army attacks that resulted in civilian casualties have been handled through internal inquiries rather than criminal investigations. 
The groups say l'ew soldinrs have been tried or punished 1'·-r harming civilians. 
The military regularly replies that civilian casualties are unin­tentional, blaming Palestinian militants from operating in civil­ian areas. 
During Monday's hearing, Justice Edmund Levy explained the rationale behind the ruling. With /\very seated in front of him, Levy said, "Tho man wants to know what hapW-Jned to him. Surely as a state, as a court, we should want the same ... It's the least we can do." 

Habitat for Hulllanity nears goal 
A..ociatrd l'ress 
i\MI·:HICUS, Ga. -llabitat for llumanity, the Christian home­building organization, said Monday it is dose to its goal of raising $25 million to build 25,000 houses for victims of the /\sian L'>unami. 
"It was a terrible tragedy, but we've had a tremendous response." llabitat spokesman Chris Clarke said. 
Thanks to some large corporate donors -including the home-improvement chain Lowe's Cos. -as well as smaller contribu­tions from individuals and churches, llabitat had raised more than $23 million for tsuna­mi relief, Clarke said. 
Lowe's donated $320,000 and raised another $680,000 by matching eustomor contributions. The National i\ssoeiation of Healtors raised another $1.3 mil­lion, he said. 
I labitat. whieh has bmm work­ing in the A'iian-Paeific region for about 10 years, plans to f(Jeus its recovery effort on four of the hardest-hit countries: Sri Lanka, India, Thailand and Indonesia. 
Habitat said it has beefed up its Asian stafT and has formed new partnerships with relief agnncies. 
"I've never seen such devasta­tion," said Maria Chomyszak, manager of Habitat's disaster­response ollice, who visited India, Thailand and Sri Lanka in January. She said the tidal wave damaged or destroyed 130 homes Ilabitat had already built in Sri Lanka. 

Inspectors find less 


E. coli in hamburger 
Associated Press 
WASIIIN<iTON -Fewer cases of contamination l'rom a dangerous strain of E. coli turned up in ground beef last year, evnn as the government increased its testing. 
The baeteria, sprnad mainly when people nat undercooked ground beef, infects about 73,000 peop lo and ki lis (d eaeh year, according to tlw l'ederal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The organism ean cause bloody diarrhea and kidney failure. 
or 8,010 ground beef sam­ples analyzed last year. 0.17 percent tested positive, com­pared with from 0.3 percent tho year before. the Agriculture Department reported Monday. That is a 43 percent dedine. 
Federal inspectors at moat plants also incrnased the num­bnr of samples, which had be on around 6,000 to 7,000 a year. 
Agriculture Department ofli­cials credited efforts sinc1~ 2002 to have plants update plans for guarding against tainted meat and changing plant operations al'ter the gov-e1·nnwnt's Food Safety and Inspection Snrvke has rnviewml those plans. 
"When you look at tlw num­bers l'rom year to ynar. I don't think it's a mattnr of' eoinei­denee that these mmJbers havP gone down," said Me rill Pierson, aeting undnrseerntary l'or f'ood saf'nty. 
lin pointml out that the rate of' inf'm:tion also has dropped. i\eeording to CDC, tho number of' E. eoli inf'netions dodined 36 pereent l'rom 2002 to 20<U, tlw most recent datos f'or whieh figures aro available. 
Caroline Smith I>eWaal. lwad of food safety f'or tlw Centnr for Science in tho Public lntnrnst, said sho is troubled by what the government is "not testing, which is imports. mnat coming from stato plants and also much of tho moat coming out of rotail stores." 
FSIS spokesman Steven Cohen said most ground ben!' is produced at plants and that rntailors arn increasingly buy­ing alrnady-paekagnd nwat. 
CDC ollkials say peoplo can avoid inf'nction by· thoroughly eooking ground boef'. avoiding unpasteurized milk and wash­ing their hands. 
Attorney general to prosecute obscenity 
Gonzales lays out broad, aggressive agenda 

Associated l'ress 
WASIIINGTON -Attorney General i\lbnrto Gonzales said Monday he would move aggressively to prosecute obscenity cases, and he laid out a broader agenda rnueh like that of his predecessor. John Ashcroft. 
In his first lengthy address since becoming attorney gener­al in early February. Gonzales said people who distribute obscene materials do not enjoy constitutional guarantees of frno speech. · 
"I am committed to prosecut­ing these crimes aggressively," he said to a Washington meet­ing of the California-based lloover Institution. 
The Justice Department is appnaling tlw dismissal of an obscenity ease in Pittsburgh in which a federal judge said prosecutors went too l'ar in try­ing to bloek the sale ol' porno­graph it: movies over the Internet and through the mail. Tho caso initially was prosecut­ed under i\sherol't. 
Gonzales, the son of Mexican immigrants, said the .Justice Dllpartment also would contin­ue its rneent stnpJwd-up artivi­ty in human traflirking investi­gations and prosecutions. "Its victims are usually aliens. many of' tlwm wonwn and rhil­dnm who are smuggled into our country and lwld in bondage," hn said. 
The .Justin~ Department also is sending teams ol' l'ednral agents to fivo more dt.ies strug­gling with violont crinw, Gonzales said, extending a pro­gram begun last year in IS eities. Investigators l'oeus on prosecuting people for firearms violations, which often accom­pany gang aetivity, illegal drug organizations and organizPd crime groups. 
Tho dtins an~: Camden, N.J.; Fresno, Calif.; llartJonl, Conn.; llouston and Nnw Orleans. 

~




HE . 

Carolyn's 21! 

Tl···l E OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page I 0 Tuesday, March ], 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Watch for wild cows 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR  8USINFSS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Alien WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
. ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4 540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudenrs of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters "'encouraged. Letters to the Editor muse be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Eaitor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

nlc t)b.')(tvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) ~~published Munday through Friday ex-cept durin~ cx.un and vac~ttion periolb. A suhscription ruTin: Observer is $100 !ilr one academk y~ar: $l)o; liu oM o;cmener. 
The Ohscrvtr is publish'.!'d o~t: POSTMASTER 024 Somh Olnin~ Htll Send .tddress correcdon~ m: Nurre: Dame, IN 46S%·0779 The Oh10erver Periodical ~<lStage paid .11 Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 ;md addi1i11nal mailing officn. 024 Solllh Dining I bll 
Nom: Dame, IN 46556..0779 
The Ollkrver i~ a member nfthe Assuci;ued PrC!i:!i. All reproductiun rights an: 
fi!\Cl'VC'd. 

Certain questions have fascinated humans for centuries: How does one rec­oncile an omnipotent, omniscient and benevolent God with the existence of evil? What is the "good life"? Does the lost city 
of Atlantis really exist?  
What is the origin of  Katie Boyle  
the creature commonly  
referred to as the  ror lt1lat It's  
"cow?"  Worth  
Alright, maybe this  

last quandary was only fascinating to my high school cross country team as we trav­eled north across the bovine-rich state of Wisconsin. Trips to meets outside the Milwaukee city limits always included such picturesque scenes of farm ... after farm ... after farm. 
After the boys had garnered all the insight they could into the fem~le psyche via a borrowed "Cosmopolitan" magazine, entertainment invariably turned to mak­ing signs to put in the window of the van. 
Through this rudimentary form of bril­liant expression, we were able to commu­nicate with the rest of our teammates, who were dispersed in the several vehicles surrounding us on the highway. 
While the initial conversations were mainly limited to "Give us the Cosmo" and "Over my dead body," our veritable smoke signals soon took a more philosophical shape. 
"Hey-where do cows come from?" someone asked. 
In high school, sincerity is never a good idea, as irony invariably achieves better results. 
"Come on man, didn't your mom ever explain that to you?" 
Nevertheless, the inquirer persisted: "No, seriously. Like, have you ever seen a wild cow?" 
The interchange quickly began to cap­ture the attention of the rest of the van. 
"Well, the Spaniards brought horses, right?" another voice chimed in. "So who brought the cows?" 
The brain-bending escalated into a 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Maddie Hanna Kate Gales 
Where are you going for 
Katie Perry Bobby Griffm Julie Bender Kevin Brennan spring break? Viewpoint Scene Caroline Murphy Ram a 

Graphics Gottumukkala Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at 
Desiree Zamora illustrator www.ndsmcobserver.com Katie Knorr 
clamor. Of course, someone else muttered, "Who cares? I'm trying to sleep." 
Despite the din of these various opin­ions, a plan was soon formed and ready for execution. 
Not two minutes later, we plastered our newest and most profound message in the van's window: 
"Watch for wild cows." 
the provision of cheese. 
Questions such as these occur to me nearly every day, but the majority go unanswered, quashed by the demands of a thesis and the rigors of a (thankfully!) completed job search. 
But while recognizing our Socratic igno­
rance, shouldn't we at least try to 

·Now perhaps you already know the origin of our bovine friends. Or maybe you just don't care (you livestock­hating jerk). 
But our collective lack of knowledge about such a sim­ple question per­taining to our com­mon environs was startling. 
Of course, humanity will always ponder the rhetorically-unan­swerable questions. But on our quest for some holy grail of truth, I wonder, how many smaller 
increase our knowledge? Although I don't know of anyone aiming to be the next Ken Jennings, it's interesting to note how many of the little queries that puzzle us remain unex­plored. 
Maybe we like to have some mystery left in our lives ­room to create the elaborate tales and 
fables of our child­hood. Maybe we're just lazy. Whatever the case 
may be, keep wonder­ing. From such conundrums 

glimpses of knowledge slip 
came the Greek Myths, past us each day? Aesop's Fables and fairy tales by 
I've never seen a wild cow, and I have never b_othered to google the phrase. Looks like I just found another way to pro­crastinate before starting on my next paper. 
I also grew up in the suburbs, where the only thing likely to be grazing the lawn is your neighbor's new riding mower bought to assuage his midlife crisis. Apparently, he never got the memo telling him that he was supposed to buy a Harley. 
Yet I still wondered about the origin of the cow and the mystique behind those demure bovine eyes. 
In India, many Hindus view the cow as a sacred animal. And in Wisconsin, I don't know if there exists a higher calling than 
the Brothers Grimm. This unquench­able curiosity and need-to-know has been an inspiration for the arts for ages. 
So, watch for wild cows, and when you read the next great American novel on the origin of the bovine, I hope you think of me. 
In the meantime, I've moved on to another one of life's great questions: Where is Waldo, anyway? 
Katie Boyle is a senior English, political science and Spanish major. She can be reached at kboyle2@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Patience with others is Love. Patience with selfis Hope. Patience with God is Faith.,, 
Adel Bestravos author 
TI-·lE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Tuesday, March I, 200'5 page II 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Meaningful debate finally arrives 
In honor of Notrn Damn's first Gay, Lnsbian, Bisi1xual and <)unstioning ((;UH)l Awaronnss Wenk, it is crueial to clear up any misrepresentations regarding tho Notrn Damn nvents that show­case gay issues. 
First, as a former rnsident assistant, diversity educator and mul­ticultural commissioner, I can assure you that the Catholic per­spnclivo on homosexuality has had, and continues to have, many VIHILWS. Dialogue on discrimination, hate crimes and other issues ndatNI to homosexuality, however, has been severely lacking on cam pus. 
Secondly, tho various pnople that have responded to Bishop John D'An~y's rocnnt eommonts have highlighted valuable points, rang­ing from J)'Arey's historically prejudiced stanee towards homosex­uals in the priesthood to the Princeton Heviow's naming Notre Dame tho most homophobie cam pus in the U.S. 
With the hnlp of movemnnts like the Queer Film Festival and GLBQ Week, rnal and meaningful debate about the issues of homo­snxuality are finally becoming part of the Notre Dame dialogue. 
Notn1 Damn traditions are evolving in ord11r to preserve the moaning of Catholic ideals in modern society. I personally believe that with enough sustained commitment and dialogue, Notre Dame will be able to develop its "distinctive identity" in the "eon­firws of tlw truth and common good." 
Tho eommon good is dearly not to disallow gay and lesbians stu­dnnts the right to organizo, raise awareness and support each ot.lwr with tho resources offered to other organizations on cam­pus, sueh as tlw Multicultural Student Programs and Services of'licn. 
lluman dignity is at stake, and Notre Dame must continue to ehangn and creatn a safer and more positivn environment for its (;I.IH) eommunity. 
As an alum, it has boon encouraging to see national eovorage of Notre Dame's unprt~eednntnd series of events. This ineludes a story in the New York Times, even though uninformed critics sueh as Bill O'Heilly ridicule Notrn Dame. 
Notre Damn, however, should be commended for its efforts aimed at fostering inelusion. The ND Queer Film Festival is an nxcnllnnt way to heighten awareness of the issues and discrimina­tion that race gays and lesbians, and this will provide a crucial pnrspnetive to the Notre Dame community. I ean only hope that tho monwntum to build a more compassionate, aeeepting, edueat­IHI and tolerant campus for gay and lesbian students at Notre Dame will continue and continue and continue. 
Anything less would be truly un-Catholic. 
Ken Seifert Class of 2003 Feb. 28 


Responding to 'unfair' 
•


comparisons 

In his column in Monday's The Observer, Joey Falco demonstrated a considerable ignorance of the political situation in Russia and the United States with regards to a rreedom and independence of the press. 
One, President George W. Bush's point was that when journalists in the United States are fired, that are done so by their editors, not by the United States govern­ment. Either Faleo completely missed this point, or he fails to see the difference between this and the ease in Hussia, where Putin has brought all television news agen­cies and most newspapers under state con­trol. When Russian journalists are removed from their posts, they are done so at the behest of the government in Moscow. For all of Faleo's warning that the situation in America is analogous to Russia, he fails to provide one specific example where an American journalist was removed from his job under the explicit orders of the U.S. government or the Bush administration, as there are none. The United States govern­ment does not have the power to remove journalists from their positions, unlike Putin's government, whieh does so with impunity. 
Two, Faleo provides no evidence that Bush or members of his administration per­sonally directed the compensation of Armstrong Williams or Maggio Gallaglwr for supporting his domostie agenda. But again, tlwre is a huge dif'f'erenee botwoen an admittedly underhanded attempt by members or the Departmont of Education or Health to eultivatn support from a few conservative syndicated columnists and tlw absorption of entire mndia outlets by the Russian state under President Putin. 
Three, Mary Mapes was fired by hnr superiors at CBS News for basing tho nntirn factual foundation of' tho 60 Minutes story concerning Bush's serviee in the National Guard on obviously forged documents fr-om a former Texas national guardsman with a history of mental illness and threats to the Bush family, not because the U.S. prnsidnnt. personally ordered her to be fired becausn she had Dan Hather ask uneomf'ortabln questions about his war record. 
Faleo, the next time you make sueh a elaim concerning the situations in the United States and Hussia, make sure you have a better understanding of the use of state power in both countries in order to avoid making more ludicrously false claims as you did in your column. 
Sean Brennan Graduate Studem Feb. 28 

U-WIRE 

Democracy on destructive world tour led by U.S. 
As the United States continues to build and rebuild tho now Iraq with hnlp from the rest of tho world, hero's a fun fact about another little country whern we just got dono waging a war. 
Afghanistan ranks 17:{ out of 17S eoun­John Jordan trins on thn Unitnd Nations 2004 !Iuman University of I>nvnlopmnnt Index, Kansas aee~,lrcling to a new University 
U.N. rnport. That Daily Kan.~an puts Afghanistan at thn bottom of the world trash barrel of human conditions. 
As wn havn seen in both Afghanistan and Iraq, fighting the war is the easy part of "building" a dmnoeraey. After it, tho rnal work starts. But this rnport shows that wn arn not committed to focusing on tho hard work. 
l'residnnt Gnorgo W. Bush announces the overthrows and nice­lions, but what good are they when hasie living conditions arn some of the worst in the world? 
But worse, how should Iraqis feel about this? Where will our priorities be if' we invade Iran? And then North Korna'! Will Bush lnave us with a dmnentnd domino chain of democra­cy'! 
The United States has helped money. We occupied both for several nations build democratic governments years, helping create better conditions before. We helped both war-ravaged than either Iraq or Afghanistan had. Germany and Japan emerge from We pumped in aid with the tyranny to republican govern­----Marshall Plan. We brought shirting attention and capital to Iraq. The Unitod States is eurrnntly spend­ing $4.3 billion a month in Iraq J'ight­ing that war. The war in Iraq takes 

money, soldiers and media attontion away from the problems of' Afghanistan. 
"The report has painted a gloomy pieture of the status of human devel­opment in the country af'tnr two deeados of' war and destruction," Afghani President Hamid Karzai said in a foreword of the report. 
It's true that the Unitod States isn't the sole reason for Afghanistan's plight-our war's only thn latest in a long series of eonl'liets there. 
But if the United Statns and Bush don't fully and patiently support human conditions and rebuilding al'ter invading a eountry, democracy cannot survive. And our poliey of bringing domoeraey to the world beeomos a sham. 
This column originally appeared Feb. 28 in the University Daily Kansan, the daily publication at the University ofKansas. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
encourage demoeraey on the 
authors of the report, nations that attacked it. according to The New York 
Second, we were serious about Times. building a democracy. Building a new Ripe for democracy? I don't think so. government takes both time and Yet Bush has already moved on, 
Tt--IE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 12 
Tuesday, March 1, 2005 
DVD REVIEW 

Comedic magic of 'Seinfeld' shines in first two seasons 

By MOLLY GRIFFIN Scene Critic 

Few television shows, or even feature films, have been as highly anticipated on DVD as "Seinfeld." The first three seasons of the hit show are now avail­able and have plenty of extras. Seasons 1 and 2 are packaged together due to the short length of the first season, and the extras are spread among the four discs. 
"Seinfeld" is frequently described as being "about nothing," and in some senses this is true. Instead of elaborate­ly-constructed plots, the show focuses on the silly details and events that make up the monotony of life for its main characters -Jerry (Jerry Seinfeld). George (Jason Alexander), Elaine (Julia Louis Dreyfus) and Kramer (Michael Richards). Episodes focus on everyday occurrences that usually wouldn't war­rant any examination on another televi­sion show, such as waiting for a table at a restaurant, leaving a bad phone mes­sage or having a new jacket ruined. 
Season 1 is rougher and, as a whole, less funny than other seasons from the series. But it does give some insight into the origins of the show and its later evo­lution. At only five episodes, the first season is extremely-.short, and the pilot is a throwback to a time when the show was actually called "The Seinfeld Chronicles" and Kramer's name was Kessler. While it isn't really very good, it does give a frame of reference that fans will appreciate. Season 1 has one episode, "The Stakeout," available with commentary from Seinfeld and creator Larry David. 
Season 2 shows the roots of the series' slow evolution into the pop culture phe­nomenon it would later become. Episodes include some of the more well-known episodes li.ke "The Chinese Restaurant," which chronicles Jerry, Elaine and George's experience of wait­ing for a table and "The .Phone Message," in which George has to steal an answering machine tape from a woman after leaving a message he does­n't want heard. Season 2 has five episodes with commentary. These com­mentaries feature a variety of the· show's creators, including writer Larry Charles, the creative duo of Seinfeld and David or the trio of Louis-Dreyfus, Richards and Alexander. 

The commentary from Seinfeld and David, who has since gone on to success with his own show, "Curb Your Enthusiasm," is by far the most enter-, taining, while the commentary from Louis-Dreyfus, Richards and Alexander is somewhat disappointing. They don't really have much insight to offer and what they do have to say isn't really interesting or engaging. 
The setup of the disc menus is extremely clever, as each one looks like a place or item from the series. However, they can be somewliat hard to navigate. The sound and video quality is much better than viewers would find when watching syndicated episodes, but it isn't always perfect. 
Along with the episode commentaries, there is a vast amount of extra material available along with the first two sea­sons. First, there are "Inside Looks" for various episodes, which are composed of interviews with cast and crew that explain the episode's background. "Master of His Domain" is a feature that spotlights Seinfeld's stand-up and "How It Began" is a 64-minute feature that details how the show became a reality. There is also a compilation of clips from cast members' appearances on "The Tonight Show" and a photo gallery. 
Overall, while the early seasons of 
"Seinfeld'1 aren't perfect, 
they show the seeds of 
what the show would 
later become. The fact 
that everything -includ­
ing bad episodes -is 
included shows just how 
much the creators want­
ed to please their die­
hard fans. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

The 77th Academy Awards Ceremony was cer­tainly a memorable one, with more surprises and contro­
Brian Doxtader 
versy than in past years. 
While there were some obvi­
Scene Columnist
ous winners who were 
expected to take home stat­
uettes, some of the biggest awards were uncertain 
until the moment the envelope was opened. 
As for myself, I predicted exactly half of the 
major awards correctly. In every category where L 
predicted incorrectly, I at least had the good sense 
to claim that the eventual winner was deserving of 
the award, so I had narrowed the field down to 
two major contenders in each case -which was 
how most of the award ceremony played out. 
Although this was two of five, at least I didn't think 
that "Ray" would win Best Picture, as New York 
Times critic A.O. Scott did. 
Unlike last year, when "Lord of the Rings: The 
Return of the King" took all eleven categories in 
which it was nominated, there was no clean sweep 
this year by any major film. 
"Million Dollar Baby" overcame its dark horse 
status to become the major winner, taking home 
Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actress and Best 
Supporting Actor. It lost the Best Adapted 
Screenplay award to Alexander Payne and Jim 
Taylor's "Sideways." It marked Eastwood's second 
Best Picture and second Best Director Award (both 
for 1992's "Unforgiven"). 
"The Aviator" took home most of the technical 
awards, including Art Direction (Dante Ferretti), 
Cinematography (Robert Richardson), Costume 
Design (Sandy Powell) and Editing (Thelma 
Schoonmaker). Its only major win was in th~ Best 
Supporting Actress category; it lost Best Picture, 
Best Director, Best Actor and Best Original 
Screenplay. Martin Scorsese once again walked 
away empty-handed; this was his fifth Best 
Director nomination since his first in 1980. 
Best Picture 
What won: "Million Dollar Baby" 
Who I said would win: "The Aviator" 
Who I said should win: "Million Dollar Baby" 
The success of this picture played out like its 
plot: a small film that nobody wanted to make sud­
denly rises to greatness, just as it follows a small­
time boxer whom nobody wants to train as she 
rises to greatness. The low-budget, extremely inti­
mate film obviously won great favor within the 
Academy voters, overcoming the Miramax market­
ing machine to take home the highest honor. It 
was refreshing to see such a well-made, personal 
film take home the Best Picture Oscar, since the 
winners in the past several years have all been . 
major blockbusters ("Lord of the Rings," 
"Chicago," "A Beautiful Mind," "Gladiator"). 
Eastwood crafted a surprisingly affecting and 
powerful film and was rewarded accordingly. The 
Academy got it right. 
Best Director 
Who won: Clint Eastwood ("Million Dollar Baby") 
Who I said would win: Clint Eastwood ("Million 
Dollar Baby") 
Who I said should win: Martin Scorsese ("The 
Aviator") 
Ah, the irony runs deep and rich. It is only fitting 
that Scorsese lost his fifth Oscar nomination to 
actor-turned-director Clint Eastwood. Eastwood .. even claimed that Scorsese should have won for 
Raging Bull, the director's 1980 boxing biopic. 
Instead, Scorsese lost again to a director who 
made ... a boxing biopic. At least the 62-year-old 
director remains in good company---' neither 
Alfred Hitchcock nor Charlie Chaplin ever won a 
Best Director award. As for the 7 4-year-old 
Eastwood, who collected his second directing 
Oscar, he has aged like a fine wine, only getting 
better and more astute with age. "Million Dollar 
Baby" marks his second straight winner, after last 
year's "Mystic River." May both he and Scorsese 
continue to make fine motion pictures for years to 
come. 

Best Actor 
Who won: Jamie Foxx ("Ray") 
Who I said would win: Jamie Foxx ("Ray") 
Who I said should win: Leonardo DiCaprio ("The 
Aviator") 
No surprise here. This was the most obvious of the awards, as Foxx's impeccable music giant was the unquestioned actor in this field turned in a great and each will likely one day have ~ Uette (With the pOSSible exception Eastwood). Foxx is now indisputat and though his performance show slightly, it still remains one of the 1 in recent history. There was no do was going to win the award, altho; have been fully undeserved had .it other nominee. It also marks John ond-consecutive loss; last year's "l Caribbean" was his first acting no1 discounts the plethora of great per has given in the past, for films like Scissorhands," "Ed Wood" and ''Ff in Las Vegas." 

Best Actress 

Who won: Hilary Swank ("Millio Who I said would win: Hilary Sv Dollar Baby") Who I said should win: Kate Wil 
Sunshine of the Spotless Mind") 
Hilary Swank goes two for two, taking home her.second Best Actress statuette and once again beating Annette Bening. Though this award was much deserved and did­n't come as a major sur­prise, there was the widespread belief that either Annette Bening would upset Swank or Bening and Swank would split the vote and Vera Drake's Imelda Staunton would take the award. As for Winslet, she is a very fine actress, so there is no doubt that her time will come -as long as she keeps taking interesting roles and attacking them with the same level of creativity as she did in "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind." 
Best Supporting Actor 
Who won: Morgan Freeman ("Million Dollar Baby") 
Who I said would win: Thomas Haden Church ("Sideways") 
Who I said should win: Morgan Freeman ("Million Dollar Baby") 
It was really good to see Morgan Freeman finally get his due. I did-n't expect him to win this award for a few reasons. Church's nomi­nation seemed almost a dual nod for himself and lead actor Paul Giamatti, who failed to receive a nomination. It seemed that "Sideways" would've taken more major awards than just screenplay. It didn't seem likely that "Million Dollar Baby" would have won as many awards as it did, and if one category was going to be affected, it would be this one. Despite this, Freeman turns in one of his strongest perform­ances and is justly rewarded. He remains to this day one of Hollywood's most reli-


Cli 

Su Su 
THE 0HSERVER 





CENE

Tul:sday, March I, 2005 page 13 

TPalion of the ahln artors and his dignified pnrformancn in voritP. Jo:vnry "Million Dollar Baby" is indicativn of his entire 
•rftll'lllarH~P earner. A solid and well-desnrvml Oscar. acting stat-Best Supporting Actress (:1 int Who won: Catn Blanchett ("Thn Aviator") a gn~at act.or Who I said would win: Virginia MadsAn al.Pd just ("Sideways") rP nu•rutll'ahlt> Who I said should win: Catn Blandwtt ("The I thai h•xx Aviator"I 1 it would not Hlandwtt ovnrr.amn eritieism of her pnrl'onn­liP to any ancn as Katlwrirw llnpburn to takn horne the 
llt>pp's StW-award. Virginia Madsen, a largely untt~sted 1II'S of tlw actrnss, dot•s not havn thn strong body of work wtion. This that Blandwtt. dons, although onn imagines that 'lllllllt'.I'S hi' lwr tinu• will t~onw nventually. Though I nxpeetnd ·:dward MadsPn to win this award since the Acadnmy 
and Loathing tPnds to fa~or artrnssns a~ u.~e.~ nnwrgn..into grnat­IWSS, as tlus aetrnss dons lll Srdeways, Blandwtt's win was more dnsnrvnd. llnr earnful 
Iollar Baby"l rl'produetion of Katharine llnpburn's quirks was rk ("Million PxtrPnwly strong and thn Academy took notkn and gave this linn adrnss tho award. 
Best Adapted Screenplay 
-···----------, 

twood scores 

Eastwood and 

on Dollar Baby" d big with the emy Sunday night, 
e film about a female 
r and her trainer d Best Picture, tor and Actress 
ture "Million Dollar Baby" 
ctor Jamie Foxx, "Ray" 
ress Hilary Swank, "Million Dollar Baby" 
rting Morgan Freeman, 
ctor "Million Dollar Baby" 
rting Cate Blanchett, "The Aviator" 
tor Clint Eastwood, "Million Dollar Baby" 
pted "Sideways" play 

inal "Eternal Sunshine of play the Spotless Mind" 
ated "The lncredibles" 
"Born into Brothels" 
eign "The Sea Inside" film Spain 
:Academy of Motion AP rts and Sciences 
Who won: Alnxandnr l'ayno and .I irn Taylor ( "Sido­ways") · 
Who I said would win: AlexandAr Payne and .I im Taylor ("Sideways") 
Who I said should win: Hiehard Link­latnr. Hhan llawke, Julin Dnlpy and Kim Krizan ("Bnl'ore Sun­set") 
As a picture, "Side­ways" was beaton out of tho gat.n. Bnforn. awards stmson rollnd around, it was the bnst-rnvkwnd, bnst rnt~nivnd motion pie­turn of the year. Tlw backlash that set in all but killed its chances of winning thn Best Picture award. As consola­tion, and in recogni­tion of the filni's stnmgths, tlw Aca­demy awarded it the Bost Adapted Semen­play Oscar. a category in whieh it was the lwavy favorite. Though "Million Doll­ar Baby" might have given it a run, the other awards given to it assurnd Sidoways that it would emerge with at least tho s\.reenplay Osear (the only major award tho pieturo won). 
Best Original Screenplay 
Who won: Charlio Kaufman, Michol (iondry and Pierre Bismuth ("Eternal Sunshino of the Spotless Mind") 
Who I said would win: John Logan ("Tho Aviator") 
Who I said should win: Charlie Kauf­man, Michel Gondry and Pierro Bismuth ("Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind") 
Quentin Tarantino once called the Best Original Screenplay Oscar a consolation award for the hip film losing the Best Picture Oscar. lie could not havo been more right than with this, a weleome sur­prise that awards Kaufman for what is undoubt­edly thA Bost Original Screonplay of the year. In my original assossment, I daimod that "The Aviator" had a less-momorable script than pm­vious ScorsAsn films, and the Academy took r)ol.ice, giving the award to the morn deserving "Eternal Sunshine." This was a surprise, but · certainly a wekonw one. Kudos to Kaufman, Gondry and Bismuth for thoir wondnrfully origi­nal work, and kudos to tho Acadnmy for having the good snnse to reeognizn it. · 
Breakdown of the other awards: 
+Spain's "Thn Sea Inside" won the Bnsl. Foreign Film award, dnfnating Mirarnax's French fi Im "The Chorus." 
+ Pixar's "The lneredihlns" won tho Best Animatnd Feature award. This carne as no sur­priso as tho film was far and away the linost aniinatnd lihn of the year. It was also ono of the best pictures of the ynar, hut a nomination in that category was unlikely (the only animatod film to ever be nominated for Bost Picture was 1991's "Boauty and the Boast"). 
+.Jan A.P. Kaczmarek won the Best Original Score Oscar for "Finding Neverland," beating out such veterans as live-time Academy Award winnnr .John Williams (for "llarry Potter and the Prisonor of' Azkaban") and Thomas Nowman (for "Lmnony Snieket's a Series of Unfortunate Evonts"). 
+ 
.Jorge Drexlor's "AI Otro Lado Dol Hio" from "Tho Motorcycle Diaries," por­l'ormed at the ceremony by Antonio Bandoras and Carlos Santana, won tho Best Original song. It was tho film's solo win in two nominations. The film was also nominated for Bost Adapted Screonplay. 

+ 
Hobert Hiehardson won Bost Cinomatography for "The Aviator" in a crowded field of enntnndors, whkh indudnd Zhao Xiadong for "llouse of Flying l>aggnrs" and Caleb Doschanel for "The Passion of the Christ." "Tho Passion" took neither award for which it was nominatnd (Best Cinem!ttography, Best Mak­oup). Thomas Storn's beauti­fully dark, atmospheric cine­matography for "Million Dollar Baby" was not evon norninat­od. 

+ 
Zana Briski's "Born into Brothels," a documentary about the rod light district of Caleutta, won the Best Documentary Feature award, defeating Morgan Spurlock's "Supersize Me." "Farenheit <J/11 ,"which was withdrawn from documentary contention in order to maintain Best Picture eli­gibility, was not nominated for any awards. It won the Palm d'Or at thA Cannes Film Festival last year. 

+ 
Scott Millan, Greg Orloff, Bob Beemer and Steve Cantamessa won Best Sound Mixing for "Hay," the film's only technical award. It was also the only technical nomination in which "The Aviator" was defeatnd. 

+ 
Michael Silvers and Handy Thorn won the Bost Sound Editing for "The lncredibles." During their aecoptance speech, one of the recipients derided claims that Sound Editing is a technieal award, calling it an art. 

+ 
Thelma Schoonmaker won her second Best Editing Oscar, this time for "The Aviator." It comes 24 years after her first win for "Raging Bull" in 1981. It also marks the seeond time that Schoonmaker won the editing award while Scorsese failod to win Best Director and tho film itself failed to win Best Picture. 


The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Contact Brian Doxtader at bdox­tade@nd. edu. 



page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 1, 2005 
NFL DRAFT COMBINE 


Clarett's speed hurts stock 
Miserable 40-yard dash time might drop running back in draft 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS-All that bag­gage Maurice Clarett has been carrying for years seemed to be riding on his shoulders when he ran at the NFL combine. 
Clarett expected to blow away everyone with his workout Saturday. Instead, he might have blown his chance to go early in April's draft. 
While fellow running backs J.J. Arrington and Ronnie Brown were running very quickly, impressing scouts and personnel directors, Clarett managed a 40­yard time above 4. 7 seconds; because he was not among the five fastest, no official time was provided. 
That's not nearly fast enough for a first-day draft prospect. Some runners. especially those with a history as cloudy as Clarett's, don't get selected at all when they seem so slow for the position. 
"It was a rough one," Clarett told NFL Network. ''I've been working so long to get to this day, doing better at practice, and I kind of mess it up. I'm frustrated. I've been working a long time, waking up at 5:30 and going back at 12:30 and then at 7 o'clock, and I totally busted." 
He certainly didn't make any teams think about drafting him in a big-money slot. Instead, he claimed he aced the interview sessions with the teams, then bungled the physical stuff. 
"A lot of coaches said I was a lot more humble and approach­able," he said. "I thought they'd ask a lot more about what hap­pened in the past." 


Such as challenging the league's draft rules in court, win­ning early, then seeing an appel­late court overturn the decision,. making him ineligible for the 2004 selections after he missed the '03 season under Ohio State suspension. 
Or pleading guilty to lying on a police report after claiming $10,000 in merchandise was stolen from his car. 
Or accepting benefits in college to which he was not entitled. 
Or accusing Ohio State of arranging for a no-work job and providing improper academic aid. 
Or showing up unprepared for last year's combine. Or not playing football in '04, either. 
Those things are on his resume, however. So is his spotty workout Saturday in which he skipped several drills after his slow run. 
"I think we were all as disap­pointed in his time as he was," Titans general manager Floyd Reese said. "It looks like he's in better shape than last year. _It wasn't quite what he hoped when he ran 40s. And it doesn't help when guys around him run 4.4s." 
That would be Arrington, of Cal, who ran a 4.46, and Brown, of Auburn, who turned in a 4.48 on either side of Clarett's poky pace. 
"After two years out, he has to get himself in football shape," Cardinals coach Dennis Green said of Clarett. "We don't even know how fast he has run before. 
"If you look at the 2002 season, he can play football." 
That's what Clarett hopes NFL people do until his personal workout in two weeks. And he might get the benefit of the doubt from some, such as Cardinals executive Rod Graves. 
"I will says this, because there is a lot that goes on out there that you have to keep it within the context," Graves said. "Maurice Clarett, when he had the opportu­nity to perform without the dis­tractions that went on off the field, performed very well. I think you have to keep that in mind when you're evaluating Maurice Clarett. That he is a good football player when his focus is there. And when he's on the field." 
Army hero hopes for chance in NFL 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -When Robert McCune hears football players talk about going to war, he just shakes his head. Three years of Army service taught him that football is a game, war a battle for survival. 
McCune lived on military bases in five states and w a s deployed to South Korea and Kuwait. He's heard the crackle of nearby gunfire and camped on a roof during a monsoon. He spent days refueling military vehicles 

and free "My plan was to go lems, but who moments lifting a into the military can be produc­50-pound rock. tive like that
and walk on at
McCune en-are very valu­dured it all so he some Division 1 able." could keep play­school.,, McCune had ing football. His hoped to play in Army buddies college at 
Robert McCune
found that funny. Alabama or "I told them linebacker Auburn. The Texans general manager Charley Casserly said. "If he's in the development stage, it becomes a concern." 
McCune wasn't even offered a Division 1-A scholarship when he graduated from LeFlore High School in Mobile, Ala. He earned a spot on the Louisville team as a walk-on and finished with 320 career tackles. Some scouts wonder if the 6-foot, 245-pound McCune is big enough to play inside line­backer, but no one has ques­tioned his commitment or work ethic. 
"You assume he has a char­acter that's very high, and that's very important to all of us," Tennessee coach Jeff Fisher said. "People who not only can avoid off-field prob­

that after this I was going to go to college and get my degree, I was going to play football, and they laughed," he said. 
Now the linebacker might be close to playing in the NFL. McCune, among the 332 play­ers invited to this year's com­bine, will be 26 by the time of the April draft, and he might be the oldest player selected. 
"If the guy is a real good football player, you don't worry about it," Houston only offers 
came from places like Alabama A&M, Alabama State, Southern University and Grambling. 
So McCune joined the Army in 1997 and quickly started moving. During the next three years, he lived in Fort Lee, Va.; Fort Stewart, Ga.; Fort Hood, Texas; Fort Knox, Ky.; and Fort Irwin, Calif. The arduous training regimen included 4-mile runs, pushups and situps. 



New coverage rules favor speedy cornerbacks 
ing the Patriots, either, as they it's a major adjustment because I being taken has changed," Auburn, Brandon Browner of
NFL policy protecting 

won their third Super Bowl in try to do the majority of my dam­Falcons general manager Rich Oregon State and Dustin Fox of wideouts from tight four years. age at the line of scrimmage any­McKay said. "It may change what Ohio State. The upsurge in illegal-contact way." trait they bring to the table. The None of them believes it's aplay will impact draft penalties had a side effect, He'd better do it there. Even trait of grab and pull and throw huge leap in style of play from because cornerbacks heading to though most of the cornerback the receiver to the ground, hope­college to pro. 
Associated Press the pros had to made a signifi­prospects can run with anyone­fully that has been devalued." ''I'm a physical guy, and you cant adjustment in their tech­including the Randy Mosses and What carries the most worth can put a hand on a guy the first INDIANAPOLIS -Grab that niques. It will affect this year's Chad Johnsons of the NFL-they these days, as always, is speed five yards," Rogers said. "Then I 
receiver and hold on tight. draft crop, as well. need to upgrade their fundamen­and quickness on the corner. Size have the speed to run with him." 
.. 
That's how cornerbacks cov­"It's different, because you tals before heading off to· the is an issue, too, ·because as Titans The biggest difference, of ered wideouts in the NFL before can't beat them up and down the pros. coach Jeff Fisher points out, most course, is the quality of who they last season. Then, after outrage field like you used to," said There is no contact at the com­widf:Jout prospects are taller and have to cover. Wide receiver is over the way New England's Miami's Antrell Rolle, generally bine or at pro workouts. So heavier than the cornerbacks the deepest and strongest posi­defenders mugged Indianapolis' rated the top cornerback this scouts and personnel directors who must cover them. tion in the league. Guys like receivers in the 2003 AFC title year. "But that just means you must go by the college tapes, "You always have to look for Rogers or Rolle or Jones played game, officials were instructed to have be physical in the first five where coverage rules and inter­bigger cornerbacks to match up against top-level pass catchers in strictly interpret the no-contact yards." pretations are different. with elite receivers," he said. college, but rarely did they see coverage rules. Rolle says that's no problem. Has the premium for corner­The best of this year's group one every week. In the pros, they 
They did, and it worked well "For me," he added Sunday at backs in the draft diminished? are Rolle, Adam "Pacman" Jones might see more than one each last season, not exactly hamper-the NFL combine, "I don't think "Maybe the type of cornerbacks of West Virginia, Carlos Rogers of week. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at .the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
SHORT-TERM NANNY NEEDED from 3/28,29,30 and 4/5-4/8, 7a.m.to 5:30p.m. Granger. 2 kids, ages 4 and 7. One person all day or split part time. Non-smoker, willing to transport kids a must 
Contact Jen 674-9876. 

Catholic family offering full time summer childcare opportunity; 4 children ages 6 to 12; Scottsdale Mall area; 7:30 am to 4:30 pm;wages negotiable; non smoker; own transportation needed. Call Maureen 360-1738. 
FoR SALE 
OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4 rm, 2 bath. For details fimbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900. 
Save your grant money & buy a refurbished DELL computer.$1 OO&up. 229·3333 


FOR RENT 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI· UMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL YEAR.TWO BED­ROOM,TWO BATHS. HURRY 235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL 
2 bdrm condo on the lake w/loft 1­car garage,close to ND.$650/mo. 
Call317-815-1329. 
19237 Cleveland 7 bdrm-52950 Marks 5 bdrm • 202 E. Cripe 4 bdrm -222 E. Willow 3 bdrm.2773097 
Clean homes close to ND. 2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent program. Blue & Gold Hom~s (574)250-7653. 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 
S.B. AVE -605 ST. PETER CALL 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 
6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAG­ULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876­3537. 
2-3 bdrm houses avail. now and 05­
06. Close to NO. Call276-2333. Omni Properties 
PERSONAL 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! Panama City, Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award Winning Company! 
SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678· 6386 

Tuesday, March I, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 


M U S C 
SPRING 

Emanuel Ax and Yefim Bronfman 
Friday, March 18 at 8 pmART~fest TOLERA E 
Tickets: $48, $38 faculty/staff, HnPJ/PERFORIAINGARTS.ND.EDU $36 seniors, $15 all students


RECON(1ll N 
fWO WEEKS OF MUSIC, FilM, THEATRE, ANG DISCUSSION COtntNUfS Ladysmith Black Mamba::r:o Sunday, March 20 at 8 pm
INSIDE/OUTSIDE: DEATH ROW IN WORDS AND IMAGES ,NATIONAL DEBATE ON THE DEATH PENAUY:APANELOfSCUSSION . --­
Tickets: $35, $28 faculty/staff,
March 1-11 in St. Joseph Counly Ubrory, Moin Branch, Sourit Bond Wednesday, Marth 2, noon, Stopleron lllmig(i, Snmt .MiJty'sColrega . 
$26 seniors, $15 all students 
Wednesday, .Morch 2, 4;l S pm, Hesburgh Ct~nter A1Jpit¢tium, · · · · 
"OKLAHOMA CITY BOMBING: 1WO FATHERS &FORGIVENESS" 
Hesburgh Center fOt lnterooffpnniStume~, Notre Oame · 
Tuesday, Morch 1, noon, Coleman Morse Lounflll, ~otre Dome Notre Dame Schola Musicorum THE EXONERATE!) Abend-Musique XXIV
"OKLAHOMA CITY BOMBING: FROM RAGE TO RfCONCIUATION" 
Wedn~sdoy, Mnrth 2al 8pm Wednesday, March 16 at 8 pm
Tuesday, March l, 7:30pm, little Flnwer Catholic Churrh, 
ihursdoY;Marcb 3at8 pm _ Reyes Organ and Choral Hall
541 ~ l Ironwood, South Band 

Friday, March 4Gt 8pm Free and open to the public; tickets required Saturday, Mardt S.Gt 3jll)1 and 8pm Sunday, Murch 6ot Zpili ondJprtt The Notre Dame Glee Club South Bend Civic Themre, South Bend Daniel Stowe, director 
Saturday, March 19 at 8 pm Leighton Concert Hall Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff,

ARTSfest THEATRE 
$4 seniors, $3 all students 
The Laramie Proiect 
by Moises Kaufman Directed by Anton Juan Decio Moinstoge Theatre 
March 1-3 Shows are at 7:30 pm 
Tickets: $I 2, $10 faculty/staff, $1 0 seniors, $8 all students 


Dead Man Walking 
by Tim Robbins Directed by Siiri Scott and Joy Skelton Philbin Studio Theatre 
March l-2 Shows ore at 7:30pm 
Tickets: $12, $10 faculty/staff, $10 seniors, ·$8 all students 


NDPRESENTS 
National Acrobats of China 
ND Presents: live at the Morris Monday, March I 4 at 8 pm 
This performance is at the Morris Performing Arts Center. Please call 574-235-9190 or visit www.morriscenler.org for tickets. 
F I L M 

BROWNING CINEMA 
Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors, $3 all students 

Tickets go on sale each Monday before the screenings. For more information about these films, please visit http://performingart~.nd.edu. 


Bad Education (2004) 

sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies Thursday, March 3 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm Friday, March 4 at 7 pm and 10 pm Saturday, March 5 at 7 prn and 1 0 pm 

More event information available at http://performingarts.nd.edu 
Discounted tickets ore underwrilten by the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Art5. 
There are a limited number of student discounts available. 


./ 





OUND THE NATION 
page 16 CoMPJLED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES Tuesday, March 1, 2005 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 

Men's College Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team re,card points · 
1 Illinois (31) 28'0 . 775 2 North Carolina 2H 742 3 Kentucky 22t3 691 4 Wake Forest 24"4 673 5-Boston College 23*2 648 6 Duke 21•4 579 7 Kansas 21f4 555 8 Oklahoma State 20,5 542 9 Louisville 2H 524 10 Washington 23•4 499 11 Arizona 24c.5 . 430 12 Michigan State 20-$ ... 431 

13 Gonzaga 22•4 "'' ..•,., 376 . 13 Syracuse 24.;& 376 
15 Utah 2H 35-4 16 Connecticut 19-6 276 17 Pacific 23·2 . 272 18 Charlotte 21~4-226 19 Alabama 2Hi 210 
21+6 . , •.•••. 184 ...
20 Oklahoma 21 Cincinnati 22-6 175 22 Villanova 19-6 135 23 Wisconsin 
;··18~7·•;, ..,, 24 Pittsburgh 25 Southern Illinois 
Women's Cou1e2le t5as AP 
team 
1 LSU (45) 2 Stanford 3 Ollio State . 4 Nortb Carolina 
5 Tennea$e~'''''" 
6 •· Duke 
..• •.: :•iii'!' ~~!~~~~~"~ate 
· 9 Rutgers • 10 NOTRE DAME 11 .....Texas 
12 ··DePaul 
13 ··rexasTe~;h···· 14 Connecticut 15 Minnesota 16 Temple 17 Kansas State 18 Vanderbilt 19 N.C. State 20 Iowa State 21 Georgia 22 Boston College 23 Penn State 24 Gonzaga 25 Maryland 

Fenci.ng Coaches' Association Rankings . 
Women's Men':s 
1 Ohio state 1 OhioState 2 NOTRE DAME 2 Penn State 3 Penn State 3 St. John's (NY) 4 Harvard 4 NOTREDAME 5 C~Jiumbia 5 Colulll.bia 6 Northwestern · · 6 Princeton 7 St John's (NY) 7 Penn 8 Penn 8 HarVard 9 Princeton 9 Staillortl 10 Temple. 10 Air Force 

around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Mississippi State at Arkansas, 7 p.m, ESPN Saint Joseph's at George Washington, 7 p.m, ESPN2 Indiana at Wisconsin, 9 p.m, ESPN 
NBA 

Sacramento at Charlotte, 7 p.m., NBATV 
PoKER 2004 World Series of Poker, 5 p.m., ESPN2 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA Temple's John Chaney will not coach in the Atlantic 10 tournament, part of a self­imposed punishment for ordering rough play by one of his players in a recent game that resulted in an opponent's injury. 
The Hall of Fame coach was already suspended by the school for the final three games of the regular season. Chaney sent in a player he described as a "goon" against Saint Joseph's last week, and Hawks' senior John Bryant wound up with a broken arm. 
Chaney had sent 
Nehemiah Ingram in to "send a message" over what he said was Saint Joseph's use of illegal screens. 
The Hawks and Owls could have met in the A-10 tournament. 
"I believe the fair thing is for me not to coach during the Atlantic 10 champi­onship tournament in Cincinnati," the 73-year-old Chaney said in a statement Monday. "John Bryant is unable to play in the tour­nament because of the injury he sustained last week against Temple. Neither should I be able to coach." 
Saint Joseph's athletic director Don DiJulia 
declined to comment to The Associated Press on Monday. 
Chaney had apologized to Bryant and his family and offered to pay his medical bills. Chaney originally sus­penqed himself for one game before the extent of Bryant's injury was known. 
When an MRI on Friday showed Bryant had a bro­ken arm, Temple suspend­ed Chaney for the final two games of the regular sea­son. 
"I never intended -nor did any of my players intend -for anyone to be injured, regardless of what may have been said emo­tionally before, during and after the game," Chaney said. "But the unfortunate fact is that John Bryant was injured. I have taken full responsibility for my words and actions, and have apol­ogized from my heart." 
Chaney apologized again in his statement Monday to Bryant, both schools and the conference. 
"Last week, my words and actions were wrong, wrong, wrong," he said. 
Chaney is still coaching the Owls at practice, though he won't attend any of their games. Assistant Dan Leibovitz is coaching the team. 
The Owls (14-11, 10-6) clinched a tie for second place in the Atlantic 10 East Division. 

IN BRIEF Irwin comes from behind 
to win Outback Pro-Am 
LUTZ, Fla. -When one aspect of Hale Irwin's game isn't working, he simply turns to another. 
"I feel in my heart I have several 'A' games," he said. 
Irwin, the career victory leader on the Champions Tour, finished a sec­ond-round 68 Monday to slip past Morris Hatalsky and win the rain­delayed Outback Steakhouse Pro-Am by one shot. 
"It wasn't spectacularly played golf. ... I didn't drive the ball well and I certainly didn't putt all that well, but I did what I had to do when I had to do it," he said. "Maybe the bottom line to that is experience." 
Taking advantage of improved weather, which made the TPC of Tampa Bay course less demanding than the previous three days, Irwin played his remaining 12 holes in 2 under to end with a 36-hole total of 8-under 134. 
Venus Williams falls in first 
round of Dubai Open 
DUBAI, United Arab Emirates ­Venus Williams struggled with a blister on her right palm and lost in the first round for the first time in four years, beaten by Italy's Silvia Farina Elia 7-5, 7-6 (6) in the Dubai Women's Open on Monday. 
Williams' previous first-round ouster was to Barbara Schett at the 2001 French Open. She also lost her opening match at Moscow in October 2002 to Magdalena Maleeva but after a first-round bye. 
Farina Elia had lost all nine of her 
· previous matches to Williams since 1997. Williams, seeded fifth, made 66 unforced errors in a match last­ing 2 hours, 4 minutes. "It would normally have been a quick match," she said. "She really doesn't have the weapons to hurt me. The blister was really a factor. I just couldn't serve well and I just couldn't keep the balls in." 
MLB plans to begin steroid 
testing Thursday 
NEW YORK -Testing under baseball's new drug agreement will start Thursday, according to the commissioner's office. 
Lawyers for players and owners have been drafting the deal since they announced the agreement for tougher testing on Jan. 13. 
"We're going to be in the camps testing starting the third of March; and I expect the language to be wrapped up in the next cou­ple of days," Rob Manfred, man­agement's executive vice presi­dent for labor relations, said Monday. 
Michael Weiner, the union's gen­eral counsel, said the sides hoped to complete the drafting before the testing starts. The deal replaces the agreement that began in September 2002. 
Tuesday, March I,. 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Knicks recover to defeat Lakers in overtime, 117-115 
Bryant had :~0 points, night onds rnmaining.
Nezv York lzolds on 
assists. fivn rnbounds and sevnn San Antonio 94, Cleveland 92 tu rnovnrs, and Lamar Odom had Tim Duncan made a IIJ-foot
to zui n despite L4.s 
2h points and IS rPhounds for jumpm just bn!'orn the linal hornco11Teback attenzpt thn I.aknrs. soundnd, giving tlw San Antonio Tim Thomas shot 13-for-1 9, Spurs 11 vietory Monday night Associated l'n·ss inrluding 4-for-S from :l-point over tho Clnvoland Cavaliers. rangn, and toppPd :{O points for who dropped thnir third 
Nl·:W YOHK-Tim Thomas t.lw lirst tinw this snason as tlw straight. .'>rorl'd a snason-high :J;) points. Knirks won at homn for thn firth Dunr:an missod his first snvnn and thn Nnw York Knirks n~rov­straight limn. shots and didn't scorn in tho PrPd af'tf'r hlowing a 111-poinl Los Angt-~les has lost lhreP in a game's first I 9 minutns. But fpad in thf' linaf 4(, S!'I'OIHIS of row. with thn ganw on the linn, lw rPgulation to flpfpat tlw Los Tlw I.aknrs opPnPd a I 15-1 I I took a pass from Tony Pa rknr, AngPIPs LakPrs I 17-I IS in ovnr-lna.d midway through ovnrtime gatlwred himself and calmly tinw Monday night. · on a thrnn-point play by Bryant, knocked down his shot without a 
Thn virtory was tlw third but tlwy didn't score again. hand in his race. straight for thP Knirks, matching Marbury's layup was goaltendml After going 0-l'or-7, Duncan tlwir longPst winning strPak of by Odom with I: I 0 lnft, and wont 9-for-1 0 from tho floor and tlw sPason. NPw York n~mainnd .Jamal Crawford eanw up with a added 11 n~bounds. Parknr in last plarP in thn Atlantie stnal whill' guarding Cbucky added 19 points, eight rnbourids Division hut pullnd within fivo Atkins. and 10 assists -none bigger ganws of tlw first-placn Boston Marbury missnd a shot and than his short pass to Duncan Cnltirs. Kurt Thomas missed a putbaek, after drawing Cavs cnntnr 
KoiJI' Bryant f'orrnd ovPrtimn but Tim Thomas eonwrtnd a tip­Zydrunas llgauskas on a pick­hy making a 3-pointnr With 4.4 in to tin it. Bryant lost control of and-roll. snconds 11'1'1 in mgulation. but he thn ball on t.lw Laknrs' rwxt pos­Ilgauskas had 26 points and t~ou ld n't ronw up with another session, and Marbury was foulnd LeBron .lames finished with 20 hig play at thn nnd. on thn perimotnr by Atkins with points, eight rebounds and seven 
Tlw Laknrs had a chance for 12. J soeonds remaining. assists for the Cavaliers, who thn fimtl shot. but Bryant passnd Marbury made both foul shots have lost four of five and are to l.ukn Walton on thP lnl't sidn of for a 117-115 lnad, setting up entnring a tough stretch of' tlw kny, and Walton tossnd the the Laknrs' final possession. upcoming games. ball bark to Bryant rather than Atkins scored 11, Bryant 10 San Antonio's Manu Ginobli, taking a shot. Bryant wasn't and Odom 10 as the Lakers who finished with 17 points, ball back to Dum~an with more t~arnnr-high 12 mbounds for thn nxpnrl.ing thn pass and fumblnd outseorod thn Knieks 39-24 in could havo put the Spurs up by than two seconds left. Jazz, who hadn't won eonsneu­it hrinlly -just nnough limn for tho fourth quartnr to force over­l'our points, but missed a pair of Cleveland's defense was late tive games sincn boating San Kurt Thomas to rnrovnr and time frne throws with 19.2 seeonds to rotating toward Duncan, who Antonio and Phonnix Jan. 10 blork Bryant's look at the bas­Los Angell's carne back from a go. had time to sot his font, measurn and 12. knt. I0-point dof'ieit in the final The Cavaliers called timeout the distance and drill it. San Utah hasn't won more than 
Bryant trind to drihblo a few minute of' rogulation by hitting and after an inbounds play, Antonio's bench erupted onto two in a row sineo opening the stnps away fill' a buzznr-hnatt·1r, four 3-pointnrs -one eaeh by Spurs center Hasho Nesterovic the Gund Arena floor and season with li1ur straight wins. but Uw dock ran out. lin spiknd Atkins, Odom, Butler and left Jlgauskas wide open under­swarmed Duncan. Simmons lf'd the Clippers with the ball to thn ground and shot Bryant. neath. James whipped a pass to The shot silenced the t:rowd of 17 points, induding a 3-pointnr an angry glancn at Walton as the The final 3 by Bryant eame Cleveland's big man, whose 18,216, and was a fitting ending to get l.os Angeles within a point Knkks t:f'lnbratnd. al'ter Marbury wont to the line dunk tied it 92-92 with 14.2 sec­to Gordon Gund's ownership of in the last 10 seconds. Corey 
Michanl Swnotnny lind his with 17.8 sec:onds remaining onds remaining. the Cavaliers. Maggnttn added I(J points for ean1nr high with IIJ points ancT with a chance to put the Knieks With Duncan setting a pick On Tuesday, the tnam will olli­the Clippers. grablwd a carPer-high 12 ahead by four. Marbury missnd near the top of thn key on JolT eially bn turned over to Detroit Haja Boll scornd 14. Andrei rnhounds, and Kurt Thomas had tho second of two from the line, Mcinnis, Parker dribbled to the mortgage magnate Dan Gilbert, Kirilenko had· II points, six IS points and 12 rnbounds as and Bryant stuck a 25-footnr right side and when llgauskas who paid $375 million l'or tho assists and four stnals and Okur Nnw York's front linn dominated. over Kurt Thomas with 4.4 sec-driftnd ovor, Parker passed the NBA franchise. Gund. who finishnd with ll points for Utah. 

The Office of Student Affairs is now accepting nominations for the 
Denny Moore Award For Excellence in Journalism 
Candidates n1ust be seniors who exemplify the qualities for which Denny Moore was known, including personal integrity and character, con1n1itanent to Notre Datne, and writing ability. 
Candidates 1nay be nominated by faculty, staff, or fellow students. 
For a non1ination forn1, please visit our website at: 
http://osa.nd.edu 
Nonzinations are due by Friday, March 4, 2005. 
bought the Cavs for $20 million in 1983, will remain a minority owner. 
During his 22 seasons with the Cavaliers, Gund's tnams were beaton by some big shots, most notably Michael .Jordan's buzzer-bl1ater in tho 1989 Easifwn Conferencn finals li11· tho Chieago Bulls. 
Aftnr starting slowly in losses at Indiana and New .Jersey, Silas wanted his team to conw out with more energy. Cleveland's coachns reinforced tho mnssagn by writing, "Start with dnspera­tion" on the locker room's nra:sa­ble board. 
The Cavaliers liJIIowed ordnrs as llgauskas scored 13 points in the l'irst qu<rrter, helping Cleveland takn a 25-20 lnad allnr one. 
Utah 87, Los Angeles 86 
Mnhmet Okur conv11rtnd a three-point play with 21.7 sec­onds rnmaining and the Utah Jazz held on for an win ovor· thn Los Angeles when Bobby Simmons missod a layup at tho buzznr l'or the Clippers. 
The .Jazz won back-to-hack gamns for thn first tirnn in a month and a half. but barely. 
Keith McLeod could have sealnd it for Utah, but missed both free throws with (>.5 sec­onds remaining. Hick Brunson rushed the ball up thn court for the Clippnrs and the got through the Jane to Simmons. who had a good look but the ball bounced off the backboard and rim as the horn sounded. 
With the win, Utah's Jerry Sloan passnd Dick Motta for sev­enth in NBA coaching vietorins with (>36. 
McLeod had 18 points and eight assists and rookie Kris Ilumphrios pulled down a 
Matt llarpring addnd I 0 points and snvnn n~bounds for tlw Jazz. 
Znljko Hnbraca· srorod 12 oiT thn bnnch and J<:lton Brand had I0 points and night rebounds for thn Clippers, who havo won just once in tho Dnlta Cnntnr. · 
Although it was sloppy at times, thn ganw was intnnso throughout. Nnitlwr tnam Jnd hy morn than ninn and thn tnams wnnt back and forth with a lllln­point lnad for tlw first hall' of' thP final pnriod. 
Tlw Clippers pullml alwad by thrnn twirn, but Bnll mado two fwn throws and a jumper to giw Utah an 82-81 lnad that emiPd up standing through tlw l'wnzied finish. 
With about a minute left, McLeod trim! a dunk and the ball bounend oil' tho rim right to .Jarron Collins, who pulled in tlw rebound and Utah was ahlo to rnsnt thn ollimsn and burn morn time oil' tlw dock. 
McLeod lnt the dock wind down somn mor·n and put up a jumper from just insidn tlw 3­point linn. lin missed. but BPII was there for tlw rl'bound. and tlw .Jazz got anotlwr new 24 sPc­onds on tlw shot dork. 
Arter about 20 morr1 snconds Md .nod startnd to drivn t.lwn fnd it to Okur li1r an oll'-balancn shot that hou ncnd ofT thn rim t.IH'tH1 times beforn dropping. 
Okur was foult1d hy Brunson on the play and made the fr·nn throw to put Utah up RS-X I with 
21.7 sneonds rnmaining. 
It looked like tlw Jazz had the game wrapped up, but Maggettn hit a 20-l'ooter to get the Clippers to XS-83, then al'tor Mel .nod hit two frn11 throws with 
l l.f> seconds loft, Simmons mado a 3-pointor to mako it R7­86. 
Tuesday, March I, 2005

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 

·Franco returns to Majors, becom_es oldest player 
46-year-old infielder 
. . . . 
zs en;oyzng sprzng training with Braves 
Associated Press 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. -Julio Franco was hanging out in the Dominican Republic during the offseason, enjoying life with his family. Then that familiar urge struck. 
"I got bored," Franco said. 
"Well,  I  
thought  to  
myself,  I  

might as well start playing a little winter 

ball."' Franco 
So he did. And now, baseball's oldest play­er is back at spring training with the Atlanta Braves, show­ing no signs of slowing down ­and preparing to make a bit of history at 46. 
Hetirement isn't even on the radar for Franco, who wants to play until he's 50. There was nothing in his performance last season that would indicate it's time to trade in his bat for a rocking chair -Franco batted .309 with six homers and 57 RBis, sharing first base with a guy young enough to bP his son, 25-year-old Adam LaHoche. 
"We have to set goals that we think we can reach," Franco said after Monday's workout. "I think that one's reachable." 
Surely if he makes it to 50, he'll be ready to do something else, right? Not necessarily. 
"We'll see," Franco said, a mischievous look in his eyes. "You never know what might happen." 
According to the Elias Sports Bureau, nobody in major league history has been an everyday position player at the age of 46. 
Even back in his native coun­try, Franco hears many of the same questions he gets while playing for the Braves. 
"How can you still be doing this?" "What in the world are you doing?" 
Franco always gives the same answer: He's playing for a high­er power, which decided to use him as a conduit to show that anything is possible. While he grew up in a religious family, the message didn't really take hold until he was 31 -and already had the reputation as someone who played just as hard off the field as he did on it. 
"I never wanted to make a commitment and give myself to God," Franco said. "I made a mistake. I should have done it when I was a little kid. It didn't happen that way, but here I am today, serving the best way I can." 
Hitting coach Terry Pendleton, who's two years younger than Franco but retired after the 1998 season, said the secret to his longevity is simple: hand-eye coordina­tion. 
"I lis is better than a lot of 20­year-olds," Pendleton said. "When Julio goes bad, it will be because of his eyes. It's not going to be because of his phys­ical strength. It will be because he can't see." 

Franco's conditioning pro­gram is the stuff of legend. His narrow waistline and rock-hard stomach meld into wide shoul­ders and massive biceps. In fact, some skeptics -former major leaguer Andy Van Slyke among them -have ques­tioned whether it's possible to maintain such a physique at that age through entirely natu­ral means. 
Franco has always laughed ofT that sort of talk, saying he has no need to use perform­ance-enhancing drugs. And no one can doubt his dedication to the game. 
"It is amazing," Pendleton said. "The only other guy I thought could do it was Willie McGee. Even late in his career, he still had great hand-eye coordination, and his body weighed about the same as when he came in." 
But McGee was done at 40 after an 18-year career. 
Franco just keeps on going. 
"It's amazing the great shape he keeps himself in," said Brian Jordan, no spring chicken him­self as he approaches his 38th birthday. "He's an inspiration. 
Jordan, a former NFL player, still remembers his first encounter with Franco, as a rookie outfielder going through spring training with the St. Louis Cardinals in the early 1990s. Before an exhibition game, Franco walked over with Juan Gonzalez. 
"I thought a couple of guys from the Dallas Cowboys were visiting camp. That's the kind of shape they were in," Jordan said. "And Julio is still in the 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 


Panthers pummel Eagles 
Associated Press 

BOSTON-No. 24 Pittsburgh impressively snapped a three­game losing streak and made ·sure the Big East race will come down to the final weekend of the 
regular season. 

Chris Taft had 12 points and eight rebounds to lead the Panthers to a 72-50 victory over No. 5 Boston College on Monday night. That kept the Eagles, who are leaving for the Atlantic Coast Conference after the season, !rom clinching a share of the Big East title. 
The Eagles (23-3, 12-3) could 
still win the conference outright 
or share it if they beat Rutgers 
on Saturday. No. 15 Connecticut, 
which is a half-game behind BC, 
plays Georgetown on Wednesday 
and No. 13 Syracuse on 
Saturday. 

Antonio Graves scored 13 
points and Carl Krauser and 
John DeGroat each had 10 points 
and seven rebounds for Pitt (19­
7, 9-6), which has beaten Boston 
College six straight tin1es, includ­
ing victories in the last three Big 
East tournaments. Pittsburgh, 
which had been. ranked as high 
as 1Oth this season. lost three 
straight to drop from 17th to 
24th in the A<>soeiated Press poll. 
Craig Smith scored 22 points 
for BC but, as a sign of the team's 
failure, airballed a free throw 
with 5:4 7 left and the Eagles 
trailing 59-45. The second shot 
hit the back of the rim and 
meekly rolled off. 

For BC, the loss was shockingly 
similar to the one posted by its 
football team in the Big East 
finale that knocked it from the 
lucrative Fiesta Bowl to the 
Continental Tire Bowl. Like that 
47-17 loss to Syracuse, this one wasn't even close. 

Smith hit a jumper in the lane to make it 34-32 with 17:38 left.. But Pittsburgh scored the next 11 points, getting consecutive putbacks from DeGroat to make it 45-32. Pitt outrebounded the Eagles 49-27 overall and outshot them 48 percent to 31 percent. It was BC's lowest offensive output or the season. 
Boston College won its first 20 games and attained its highest ranking ever -No. 3 -before losing two of its last three games. Another sellout crowd came to say goodbye to the senior class and I-Ieisman Trophy winner Doug Flutie jammed with the band, playing the drums on 
• "Johnny B. Good." 
BC went 7:19 without scoring while Pitt ran off 11 consecutive points -five from Krauser and four from Chevon Troutman ­to take a 16-9 lead. 

same shape." 
LaRoche, who platoons with Franco at first base. picked up some valuable ofT-the-field les­sons as a rookie, things such as preparation and staying shar.p mentally, even when you're on the bench. · 
It doesn't hurt to watch how Franco conducts himself at the plate, either. 
"I learned from him that you've got to stay within your­self. Period," LaRoche said. "There's a lot of ways to say that, but basically it comes down to this: Don't try to do more than you can do. Don't try to make something out of noth­ing. That's the biggest key." 
Even Jordan, at this late stage of his career, figures he can glean a lesson or two from Franco. 
"He's come to a point where he really knows the game," said Jordan, who still has that foot­ball mentality. "He doesn't play like I play, going all out for every ball. You've got to pace yourself. Hopefully I can learn from him." 
During batting practice, Franco sits atop a bench behind the cage, focusing in on the 
· ball, studying the little nuances of each hitter, doling out subtle bits of advice. 
"Stay through it a little longer," he tells second base­man Marcus Giles. 
When Giles lines a pitch to left field, he immediately turns to Franco for validation. 
"Better?" Giles asks. "Better," Franco replies. But when a rookie pops up 
two straight pitches off the top of cage, Franco shakes his head in disgust. 
Attention Sophomores Interested in Business... 
Make Yourself Stand Out! 
Here's an opportunity for you to learn about the University's accounting system while gaining valuable experience as 
Assistant Student Union Treasurer. 
As an Assistant Treasurer you will: 
• 
Become an integral part ofthe Student Union Treasurer's Office, the primary controlling body of student activities funds. 

• 
Be responsible for managing, consulting, and maintaining various student organization accounts. 

• 
Serve as a liaison for "The Shirt" Project ($200,000+ revenue operation) or the Student Businesses (Adworks, Irish Gardens, Dome Designs) 

• 
Sit on the Financial Management Board, which is responsible for allocating over $700,000 in student activity fees among various organizations as well as controlling "The Shirt" Charity Fund. 


This commitment requires approximately s-6 hours per week and is a possible two-year commitment, as one assistant shall take over the role of Student Union Treasurer the following year. Don't miss out on this great chance for extra-curricular involvement! 
Applications are now available outside the Treasurer's Office (314C LaFortune Student Center) and are due no later than spm on Friday, March tSth. Interviews will be held Wednesday, March 23rd (Please sign up for an interview upon submitting your application). 
Questions? Contact Michael Marshall at mmarsha2@nd.edu or the Office of the Treasurer at 631-4557. 
Tuesday, March I, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Tuck gets attention at combine 
Associated Press 
INI>I;\N;\l'OLIS -Justin Tuck's dPdsion to IPavn Notre I>amn a ynar narly bncanw a lot nasinr wlwn thn Irish !'ired coach Tyrorw Willingham prior to tlw Insight Bowl in l>ncnmbnr. 
"I think I would havn consid­PrPd corning back a lit.tl11 morl' if lw would havn bnmr tlwrn. hut I don't think that had any bnaring as far as my lin a I dndsion." tlw dPfPnsivn PrHI said. 
Tuck is taking part at the NFL rombhw with hopes of improv­ing his draft status. 
liP is projndnd as a latn lirst.­round or narly st1cond-round pirk. 
Tur.k, a sl'nior with one ynar ol' colll'gt' Pligihilit.y 1.-f't. said it was Willingham who lwlpnd pnrsuadn him to Pntnr the NI."L draf't. 
"liP told ntP that I was rPady and thaI. thn dPcision ~~amn down t.o mn," Tuck said. "lin wasn't. going to pull me eilhnr way." 
Tlw last Notrl' l>amn playnr to l11avn school narly and got pieknd in thn first round was cl'ntnr JpfT Fairw. who was taken 21st overall in 2003 by tlw Clnveland Browns. 
"Justin is a good guy, and he plays tho way hn's supposnd to play." said LSU dl'fl'nsivn end Marrus Sp!'ars. who is expet~tnd to lw a high first-round pick. 'Tvn Sl'nn him play. and hn can · play thl' gamn." 
Tlw 6-foot-5, 26S-pound Tuck showml his ability to get thn quartnrhack whill' at Notrn Damn. lin snt tho Irish earner sack rneord with 24.5, and hn hrokl' tlw single-season sack rncord in 2003 with 13.5. 
Tur.k said he would like to play dnl'ensivn nnd in thn NFL, but lw would b11 willing to move to outside linebacker in a 3-4 defensn. 



"l would delinitnly rather play clown in a 4-3, but I'm versatile and I can play both," he said. "I played linebaeker sometimes this year in dif'f'ernnt paekag(ls that wn had. Either way, I'm going to be a steal in the draft." 
· NFL coaclws have varied opinions about players that leav11 college after three years. 
"Thn top guys will bn able to make it., but nvnry ynar we get X amount of juniors that don't get draltod and thny probably won't make a team," Lions coach Stnvn Mariueci said. "Thny can't go baek to I eollngn football I and they arc far from graduating. Thern is a risk involved." 
Tuck did not specify which events he will take part in at the combine, but he did say it was unlikely he would go through all of them. Defensive ends took physieals on Saturday. wnight lifting is sclwdull'd for Sunday and running drills are on Monday. 
Tuek has a pro day planned for March 16, whnrn NFL smuts ean get a bntter look at his skills. 

Notre Dame Disability Awareness Month 
Sujeet Desai will be playing the violin, clarinet and piano. He graduated from the Berkshire Music Academy and was born with Down syndrome. ?p.m. Washington Hall, Free Admission 
Saturday, 3/19 Come to the Best Buddies Friendship Games and interact with children and adults with special needs. 12 noon-2p.m. Logan Center Gym 
Monday, 3/21 Head Football Coach Charlie Weis, 9p.m. DeBartolo 102 Coach Weis will be speaking about disability awareness. 
Tuesday, 3/29 Students with Disabilities Discussion, 8p.m. Legends 
www.nd.edu/-bbuddies 
NCAA 
Colleges may lose team scholarships 
More than 400 schools face penalties for poor academic perfonnance 
Associated Press 
INDI/\NAPOI.IS -At lnast one team at hall' the nation's Division I schools could lose scholarships next yoar because ol' poor a('.adnmic pnr­formanen, according to a prn­1i mi n a r y r e p o r t r e Inas tHI Monday by the NCAA. 
Of thn 5, 720 teams at :~2X Division I sehools, about 41 0 tnams risk penalties. 
"We hope tho bn'havior changes and tho number of teams will actually go down over time," NCA;\ presidnnt Myles Brand said in a confnr­nnce call. 
Most of the scholarship loss­es, which would bo for onn year, arn expeetnd to eomn in football, baseball and mnn's basketball. 
Thosn were the only sports with averages bnlow a 925­point cutline at whieh pnnal­ties would be assessed. Baseball teams averaged 922, while football and men's bas­ketball were at 923. 
The most prominent pro­grams below 700 were the men's basketball teams at Fresno State and Baylor. Fresno State received a (d 1, while Baylor scored 647 -a ligure affected by the transfer of several players after the 2003 shooting death of Patrick Dennehy. 
But there immediately wern concerns with the seores. 
Brown said hn contacted llw 
NCA;\ to point. out the ~~akula­
tion only induded thrPe 
indoor track athiPt.ns-not. 
tho 27 that participate in both 
indoor and outdoor !.rack. 
"It's very 11111 harrassing and 

it hurts our rneruiting," 
Brown said. "It's nxtrnnwly 
ups nt.t in g that tlw NC;\;\ 
relnasnd something to the 
public wlwn t.hny know tlwrn 
are somn f'laws." 
Tlw now !'alculation givPs 

athletns onn point oach snmns­
tnr f'or remaining nligihln and 
anotlwr point. nach smnnstPr 
for staying in school. Tho 
points f'or each tmun tlwn an~ 
dividnd by tho higlwst. possible 
total of points a loam could 
scorn. That. pnrcnntagP is 
assessed a point total, with 
I ,000 bo in g tho h iglws t. 
Schools scoring bnlow 925, or 
92.5 percent. could face . penalties. · 
The NCA;\ will usn a statisti­
cal adjustment., similar t.o thn 
margin of' error used in prnsi­
dnnt.ial polls, to prnvPnt statis­
tical anomalies f'or teams with 
few athletes. 
Corrections to the scorns are 
expoetnd to bn annourH~nd in 
April. Thn NCA;\ also will 
institute a yot-to-bo doter­
mined waivnr process to avoid 
penalties. 
Schools arn nxpoetnd to bn notif'ind by I>ocombnr of' tlw final results, whieh also ineludn l'igures from tho 2004­05 school yoar. Programs must take the penalties as early as possibln and those that arn far below the eut.lirw now could tako tho scholarship loss noxt fall. 
The Houston wonwn's cross country team and tho Eastnrn Michigan men's indoor track team both scornd ztiro. which NCAA ol'f1eials said might have been bncause thorn was only one athlete represented. 
Maryland-Baltimore County athletic director Charlns Brown said the NCA;\ miscal­culatnd tho seorn for its men's traek team. which scored hOO. 
Tho 200:~-04 data only gives sehools an indication of how thoy arc doing. Undor tlw nnw format, NCA;\ of'f'idals hopo to improve both aeadnmic nligi­bilit.y and rotnntion of ath­lotos. Stronger ponalties, induding postsnason bans l'or consistently poor acadnmie 
porl'ormancn, arl' nxpnctod  to  
bo  nnfon~nd  by  tlw  l'all  ol'  
200S.  

page 20 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, March 1, 2005 Tuesday, March 1, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 

Ruthrauff 
continued from page 24 
mark was set despitn being rotated bntwnen positions ­lluthrauf'f has playnd at f'irst hasn, shortstop and third base during hnr Notrn Damn earner. 
Huthrauf'f might not bn thn host ovorall hittor on the team, hut it's hard to lind a player who is morn wnll-roundnd. 
On a team that f'naturns a national player of' the year ean­didatn in Ciolli, HuthraufT has still donn plnnty to prove her worth to the Irish. In 2003, she was named a mmnbnr of' the Big l•:ast all-rookie team as well as a starter on the all-conf'nrence t«mm. Shn rnpnatnd that all-Big East honor in 2003, joining six lidlow Notre Damn teamrnatns. 
Huthraul'f is onn of' several Irish players from the statn of' California and was a prop super­star for La Serna High School in Whittier, helping her tnam win two Division Ill statn champi­onships. Whiln at La Serna, Huthraull" set the school rneords li1r batting avnragn and hits in a season. 
It was Notrn Damn's atmos­plwrn that led Huthraull" to !nave 
the sun of California for the harsh winters of' Northeast Indiana. 
"There's just something spe­cial about this place," she said. "Whnn I took my recruiting trip up here, I realized right away that the people were friendlier and the campus just had this special feeling that I didn't sense from any of' the other schools I visited. 
"I r«~ally think it's one of' those things Notre Damn has that sep­arates it from the other universi­ties." 
Despitn starting the season 5­6, albeit against several highly­ranked tnams, Huthrauf'f believes her team will prove itself' to be a formidable force this season because of its dose­knit teammates. 
"The camaraderie on this team is stronger than it's ever been," she said. "I think that we trnat each other like sisters, whethnr we win or lose, and that's really going to be a big help fi1r us when we go into the postseason this year." 
You ean be sure that Huthraufl' will do her part to make surn thn Irish win morn than they lose. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
Life at Lilly 
real. people doing extraordinary things 
Eli Lilly and Company Information Session 
Careers in Finance 
All majors welcome 
March 1, 2005 -7:00PM DeBartolo Hall, Room 113 
Lilly is looking for Juniors interested in Corporate Finance Internships 

www.lilly.com/careers 
~ 

Answers that m~ 

Wed., March 2nd@ 8 PM Irish Basketball vs. Rutgers 
Joyce Center Arena 
One lucky fan will win $100 in free gas~ 
• Red Panda Acrobat will be performing at haJf-time 
CLUB SPORTS 

Water polo sweeps weekend 
Special to the Observer 

The women's water polo dub swept all four opponents this weekend, defeating Western Michigan, 15-2, and Eastern Michigan, 15-1 on Saturday. They then topped Grand Valley State, 15-4, and Eastern Michigan 14-3, in a rematch on Sunday. The dub is preparing for its trip to Cal San Bernardino, to challenge both the top clubs and some varsity teams in California. 
Equestrian 

The ND/SMC Equestrians competed in a pair of IIISA shows this weekend at Taylor University, claiming third on Saturday with 31 points, and scoring 33 points on Sunday. These results all but guaran­teed the Irish will be crowned Hegional champions and will qualify for the Zones champi­onships. In Saturday's competi­tion, Caitlin Landuyt earned I Iigh Point honors as the day's top scorer among all teams. 
Landuyt claimed first in intermediate fences, with Andrea Oliverio second and Mollly Schmiege sixth. Landyut and Oliverio tied for second in intermediate nat, with team­mates Chelsea Brown third, Catherine Linn fifth and Schmieg!~ sixth. 
Claire Freeman posted a first in open flat to lead a strong Irish score as Katie Baron · placed second, and Kelly Ostberg, Oliverio and Molly Kopacz all tied for third. Baron also took second in open fences. 
Kristin LaSota, Marta Ascadi, and Megan Murphy all finished first in their dass of novice flat, with II ayden Piscal third, Brittany Gragg fourth and Lauren Croall sixth. Murphy also placed sixth in novice fences. Katy Booth earned a second in walkl-trot-canter, fol­lowed by Laura Hale and Heather LaDue, both in fifth. Nicole Gansalves elaimed sec­ond in walk-trot. 
In action Sunday, Katie Baron garnered f'irst in open fences. Clairn Freeman placed second in open flat, with Molly Kopacz third, Baron, Kelsey Ostberg, and Andrea Oliverio all in fourth, and .Julia Burke at lifth. Molly Sehmiege took sixth in intermediate fences, the only Irish rider to score in the event. 
Caitlin Landuyt took another first for the weekend in inter­mediate flat, with Chelsea Brown placing second. Schmiege was fourth, followed by Ana Hiehter and Catherine Linn in fifth. Mary Dorgant and Hayden Piscal tied for second in no~~e fences, with Megan Murphy f'ifth. Murphy and Kristen LaSota shared first in noviee nat, Dorgant and J>iscal tied for third, with Britany Gragg fourth and Katy Hyan fifth. Heather LaDue won first in walk-trot-canter, followed by Katy Booth in fourth and Laura Hale fifth. Nicole Gonsalves fin­ished third in walk-trot. 
Gymnastics 
Tho Irish Gymnastics tnam traveled to Bloomington to compete in Indiana's Big Hod 
Invitational this Wl~ekond. The Irish women were lnd by Caitlin O'Brien, who finished first on floor, sixth on vault and fifth in all-around competition. Wendy Jo Svotanofl" also placed for the Irish with a fifth-place finish on beam. Also contribut­ing for the Irish women were Mary Blazewiez, Ceeilia Torres, and Cigi Low. Purdue, Indiana, and Virginia Tech took the top three in team standings. 
Brian Dunn and Paul Kane were tho lone Irish representa­tives in men's competition, which was won by Triton, with Purdue and Virginia Tech plac­ing second and third. The Irish will return to competition on April 2, when they host the Clover Classic at Gymnastics Miehiana. 
Men's Volleyball 
The Men's Volleyball tnam tmvnled to Northern Illinois University this weekend 
to wrap up the seeond half' of their conference regular sea­son and to compete in the con­ference championship. The Irish fell to 0-8 in eonforonce play last year and worn dntnr­mined to return to the upper echelons of conference play. They accomplished that and more with a 6-3 confernnce record and a strong t<mrna­mnnt showing. 
The Irish optinod with a sweep of Northern Illinois, 25­20, 25-22 behind the strong play of opposite hitter Mike Giampa·. Their next match was against University of Illinois at Chicago, who extended the Irish to three games. But the Irish prevailed in tho third game to post a 25-23, 23-25, 15-7 victory. The Irish then fin­ished their conference season with a big win against University of Wisconsin­Milwaukee 25-18, 25-20. A very strong rookie elass, including defensive spedalist John Tibbie, setter Nolan Kane, and outside hitters Dan Zibton and Drew Williams, "compli­mented veterans like Giampa and middle hitter·s Dan Parziale, Joe O'Connell and Hyan Goes. 
The Irish earned a fourth plaee seed and first round bye in the conference tournament by upsetting three ranked teams in their confnrnnce. Tlw tournament, however, ended early in a tough throo-game match with firth seed Ball Stato. Despite beating No. 22 Ball State in two games during the regular season the Irish could not pull ofT tho quarterfi­nal victory, dropping a tough three gamo match 17-25, 25­20, 11-15. Tho Irish eon tin un tournament play next weekend at Indiana University, in tho 32­tnam I loosior-lllini dassie, tlw biggest tournament of tho year before the national champi­onships in March. 

Skiing 
Marquette, Mieh. hosted thn Hogional championships this weekend, as both varsity and elub teams from 23 sdwols compotnd to advance to the Nationals. Notre Damn's women finishod ninth, while thn men took 12th in thn field. Finishing in the top five in women's com petition were St. Olaf', Minnesota Deluth, Northern Michigan, Minnesota and Wisconsin. In men's ... results, Michigan Tech, St. Olaf's, Minnesota Deluth, Minnnsota and St. Thomas daimnd the top five sports. 
Daniello Clements finished 32nd in individual slalom standings, followed by tnam­matos Lauren Daeoy, 42nd; Sarah Hauvenhorst, h7th, and Hita Morgan, 6Hth. Senior co­captain .Joe Payne turned in the men's best slalom perform­ance, finishing 33rd. Brian llodgos was next at ninth, with senior co-captain Bill Leimkunhler, seventh, .Jason Luncht, 90th, and /\lox Gloeckner, 93rd in a l"i«dd of' more than I 00 racers. This eoneludes the season for the Irish. 
Women's Ice Hockey 
In their last gamns of the sea­son, the women's ice hock«~y dub traveled to Ann Arbor to face Michigan this weekend. Despite Friday's 9-0 loss to the Wolverines, the Irish women eamn out full of nnergy in their game 
Saturday night, scoring 5 goals in the 9-5 loss to Michigan. In thnir last ganws for tlw team, seniors Annmnarin Kennedy and Tori Blainey each scored in the first period, with Blainny rifling in a second goal during the second­period. Sophomore Julia LaPointe added two goals to the efl'ort. Senior Nell 
Byan led the tnam with lwr defensive efforts, but in the end, Michigan was too deep and experienced for the Irish. Senior Captain Angelina Zehrbaeh commended the team for their pnrf'ormanen and intensity in both games. 
Irish Athletics This Week...l)E_ THE_f\E_ 
Thurs., March 3rd @4:30 PM #12 Women's Lacrosse vs. Northwestern 
Loftus Sports Center 
• First 200 fans will receive a long-sleeve schedule shirt j~ Visit www.notredamepromotions.com for all the latest promotional information 


page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Tuesday, March 1, 2005 
Bouts 
continued from page 24 
in a split decision. Whiting fought well, but took too many of I lagan's jabs in the face. 
Sophomore Mike Rooney came out swinging right from the open­ing bell against Brian "The Southern Gun" Wierson. Wierson must have been shooting blanks, as he couldn't seem to stall Rooney's attack. Wierson was given a standing eight-count early in the second round and was also sent to his corner twice to stop a nosebleed that kept coming back throughout the fight. The fight was stopped and the decision awarded to Rooney just 1:22 into the second round. Rooney goes on to face sen­ior Galen Loughrey, who had a bye. 
160 pounds 
Joe Christorforetti, a law stu­dent, showed that prospective lawyers don't always need to use rhetoric and legal precedents to settle their disputes. l-Ie garnered a unanimous decision in his bout against sophomore Kevin "Captain of the Starship Enterprise" Henderman. Henderman started strong but couldn't get his fists 
· back up to warp speed in the third round, when Christorforetti took over for good. Christorforetti will next take on junior Mark Basola, who earned a bye into the quarter­finals. 
Adam "The Steel Ghost" Burns, one of the few southpaws in the competition, took a decision from Conor "Con-man" McEvily with a series of ferocious left hooks. Burns will face law student Billy "Excuses" Henderman, who defeated freshman Hunter Land in an absolute brawl of a fight that brought the crowd to its feet. The fight was stopped numerous times as both boxers were bleeding by the second round. 

Preston "The Punching Idahoan" Carter took a unanimous decision over Dan "You're Only Going to Hear My Nickname Once" Olson. Olson recovered from a trip in the first round, but his late charge wasn't enough to take out Carter. Carter will now face junior Daniel Liem, who made quick work of senior Kevin Loria. Liem managed to knock Loria down twice, forcing the referee to give Loria two sepa­rate standing eight-counts, one each in the second and third rounds. The fight was stopped 24 seconds into the third round. 
Tim "The Nevada Nailer" Uhalde won a unanimous decision over Sean Wieland. Wieland tripped in the first round, but recovered to put up a challenge for the more experienced Uhalde. Uhalde goes on to the quarterfi­nals to face Bobby "The Polish Pistol" Gorynski. Gorynski man­aged to force Stephen Barbera to take two standing eight-counts within the first ten seconds of the second round. The fight was stopped and awarded to Gorynski just 15 seconds into the second round. 
Contact John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu 
Fights 
continued from page 24 
rounds. Bezouska responded to a fan's request to "do it for Marissa Cooper" by advancing to Thursday's quarterfinals, using his quick footwork to subdue Cea. _ 
In a unanimous decision by the five judges, junior Mike McCann beat senior Kevin "My Last Name Means Laxative" Rycyna. McCann, an off-cam­pus resident, put Rycyna, from Keenan, on the ropes early and used strong right hooks that outmatched Rycyna's quick jabs. Rycyna went on the offen­sive in the third round but by the bell had failing fists of exhaustion. 
Sophomore Michael "My Real Name is Meri" Hennig won by RSC 35 seconds into round two against junior Tim Jaeger in the last Lightweight match of the day. Hennig knocked Jaeger into the corner early on. In the second round, Hennig's left hook knocked Jaeger to the. canvas, and later a Hennig combo put Jaeger down again before the referee called the fight. 
Senior Timothy "The Irish Frenzy" McKenzie won by 
Sophomore Zach "Phat Qunka" Jara unanimously beat Kevin "Big Red" Martin. Jara initiated punches throughout the fight, showing quicker foot­work and better balance that avoided some of Martin's big but off-balanced swings ­almost knocking Martin down in round three. 
Law student Guillermo "Mighty Memo" Tijerina defeat­ed freshman Craig Panzica in a split decision. Tijerina's big, open punches made Panzica play defense early on. Although Panzica used his arm reach to fight off Tijerina's wild attacks and get his own hits, Tijerina's offense never ceased. 
In unanimous fashion, sopho­more Brian Tyrrell beat fresh­man Jesse "The Brawler" Brawer. Tyrrell bloodied Brawer's nose in the first round and, though often on defense, stayed disciplined to record nice head and body shots. Tyrrell reopened Brawer's wound later in the match, out­reaching Brawer's punches. Though Brawer came on strong in the third round, forcing Tyrrell into the ropes and almost knocking him down, the early damage was too much for Brawer to overcome. 
155 pounds 
The 155-pound Super 
senior Brad Amiri by unani­mous decision. Grissinger's constant display of aggressive jabs set up his attack against Amiri, who spent all three rounds trying to setup his big right hand. Although Amiri landed one shot that drew "Mongoose" blood, it was not enough to stop Grissinger. 
MBA student and southpaw Brian Weldon overcame senior Joseph "Sweet Pea" Schuppig in an RSC 58 seconds into the third round. Weldon's left hand delivered big punches early on, as Schuppig wildly fought off Weldon and the two traded blows for a while. Weldon's hooks finally fatigued Schuppig, who failed to block his exposed face before the referee stopped the contest minutes after Weldon knocked Schuppig to the floor. 
Sophomore Stephen "Wiggles" Hutchings beat soph­omore Ryan "Seoul Man" Smith who, indeed, hails from Seoul, South Korea. Hutchings, who was in control most of the fight, effectively used his longer arm reach to deliver his own jabs and block Smith's efforts en route to a unanimous victory. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
Pirates 
continued from page 22 
right now, so I'm anxious to keep playing." 
And while the Irish are red-hot, the Pirates have struggled lately. Seton Hall lost its third in a row and fourth in five games Saturday at Syracuse. The Pirates shot just 18.5 percent in the first half, connecting on only five field goals, en route to the 51-38loss. 
The Pirates are led by senior swing player Ashley Bush, who averages 13 points and 8.3 rebounds per game. Sophomore forward Monique Blake also has solid numbers, averaging 11.3 
points and 7.6 rebounds per game, while registering 1.52 blocks per game as well. 
The last time these two teams met on Jan. 2, Seton Hall was at the peak of its season, with two of its three losses coming at the hands of ranked teams. Notre Dame won that matchup, its Big East opener, with a 54-33 mar­gin, but since then the Pirates have struggled offensively ­averaging just 43.2 points per game in their last five games, and scoring above the 50-point mark 
just  once,  against  lowly  
Providence.  
Tipoff is 7 p.m.  at  Walsh  

Gymnasium in South Orange, N.J. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

default, as his match against sophomore James "Toaster" Hussell was forfeited. 
150 pounds 
At the 150-pound Welterweight division, fresh­man Patrick O'Brien outlasted sophomore Greg "Busta" Brown in a split decision. O'Brien landed right hooks throughout the fight, and despite Brown's offensive late in the third round, O'Brien's power was too much. 

Welterweight class featured the quickest fight of the night, as sophomore Chris Calderone overwhelmed junior John Townsend in an RSC, when Townsend failed to respond to the referee's standing eight count at the end of the first round. Calderone landed a pun­ishing series of left-handed jabs and hooks to Townsend's head before the fight was called. 
Sophomore Bryan "The · Mongoose" Grissinger defeated 
Stz;,}efie (Sizzlelini@)­On Tuesdays, get our specialty for TWO for only $10.95! 
A sizzling skiHet of tender chicken, savory sausage or both served with a zesty tomato sauce accented with peppers and onions on top of a generous portion of spaghetti. 
B~-Iefie (Bellini)­A frosty, peach Italian work of art for $2! 
Tiiz-dEz (Tuesdays)­
Visit us EVERY Tuesday for lunch or dinner to celebrate 
Sizzlelini® Bellini Tuesdays! 


The College of Arts and Letters invites Student Nominations for 
Kaneb Teaching Awards 
Each year Kaneb Teaching Awards recognize approximately 25 Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in undergraduate teaching. 
Tenured faculty as well as professional specialist and adjunct faculty who have taught at least five years are eligible. 
Take advantage of this opportunity to have a voice in the selection of these recipients by nominating one ofyour outstanding teachers for this award. 
Send a brief letter indicating what is special or significant about this instructor to: 

~.:/"':'<.~"r'.<;\ 

Hugh Page, Associate Dean 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall 
Deadline Friday, March 18, 2005 

Tuesday, March 1, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT 
ELBONif\N CULTURE. 

"
~ 

g
CU\SS 

1------------------~ ., 
WHEN AN ELBONIAN 
I 
ij YOJ HIS CARD . . _ 
BUSI~ESSMAN GIVES 
~ 

1 
f\)
f!. \




---ri-J ~~~ 

~ J 

~ ~--·-~ 
.ii 

~------~~__\.___________~s~------~--------------~~ 
PEANUTS 
CR'JMPLt: l'T UP AND 
PUT 1T IN YOUR. r'\OUTH. O{ti...,J IT 
SLOVJL Y THEN SPIT 
IT TOv.JARD HIS FOR£.H£AD 
&' 
~ 
$ 
<&
e 
j 
!f 
i 
"I> 
< 
J 
I
~,, 

SCOTT ADAMS 
THIS LEADS ME TO MY NEXT TOPIC: DUELING t • .JITH YAK I~ON'ES. 
-~ 


CHARLES SCHULZ 
SO I 5Uf'P05E Y'OU 14AVE TO ASK YOURSELF. 
•'WHICH WOULD I RATHER I-lAVE I-lAPPEN .. MY KITE GET CAUG~T IN A TREE OR RUN OVER 
6V A TRUCK ? '' 


JUMBLE 
JJ~J]]1J]. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DUNOB j
I [l ( J 
C2005 Tnbune Media Serv1ces, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
OXPRY 
I [l j 
~ GINANA 

IJ I 
www.jumble.com
tDURECE j 


Yesterday's I Jumbles: 
Answer: 

USURY DOUBT WINTRY MISFIT When touring Germany, the ulcer sufferer took a-TURN FOR THE "WURST' 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
-


..
HOW LONG DID THE CHALLENGE:!< LAST AGAINST THE: CHAMP? 
(Answers tomorrow) 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 35 .:Tickle me" guy 60 Walk ?" nonchalantly
"Que 37 Parenthetical 5 1970's White comment 
61 Baba House name 62 Takes no
38 Part of H.R.H. 11 Revolutionary chances39 Word that can
Guevara 64 Word with pool
follow the ends or port14 Often of 17· and 65 Go back to a15 There are eight 62-Across and favorite book

in a cup 11-and 66 Pitcher
16 _ Luthor, of 34·Down "Superman" 41 Break a 67 Language suffix 
17 Evangelist and commandment 68 Antsy friend of 69 Some cameras,
42 On 

presidents for short 
(winning) 19 _ pro nobis 
44 Vaccines 20 1956 Elvis hit DOWN
45 Understands

that went to #2 1 Picasso or 46 "Forget about 
21 Sun. talk Casals 22 Mil. weapon it!" 2 "March comes 
48 Art supporter in like
that can cross an ocean 50 Words of 3 Figure out 23 Some short agreement 4 As a minimum plays 52 German 5 Energetic one 25 Nosh thoroughfare 6 Part of E.U.: 27 French 56 Huck Finn's 
Abbr. composer Erik transport 7 Genetic 29 Turned sharply molecules
58 Digital readout, 31 TV roorns 40 First and 53 Wrap 32 Diplomat's asset for short Second
a Flu symptoms 54 Morley of "60 32 Holier thou
9 Becomes aware Avenues area, 
Minutes" ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE of 33 Prefix with in Manhattan 
55 Observers

10 Mil. award space 43 Ransack 
56 Preakness, for11 How bidding 45 Spectacles
34 Dangerous thing one
proceeds in 47 Common
to be caught in 57 "Woe is me!"

bridge allergen 12 Basil or oregano 36 Gumbo 49 Part of Q.E.D. 59 Not natural 
vegetables

13 Midterm, e.g. 51 Words of 62 In favor of 18 Gym site, for 39 Dressed compassion 63 Droop short 22 Prepares, as 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with aChampagne 
credit card, 1·800·814-5554. 
-=-+-:-+-:-+=+:+.:=-! 24 Marner Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS.
~tt.m~··· 26 Banned apple 
.;: spray 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 28 Show host past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 30 Get to work on Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young Time solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year , 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST


HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS nAY: Eric Lindros, 32; Gilhcn Goufried, 50; Bcrnadcllc Peters, 57; Mario Andrctti, t\5 
Happy Birthday: Adaptability will he required this year if you wanlto take advantage of some of the amazing changes coming your way. Just when you lhink something is not going to go, a new set of l'ircumstances will help you manipulute your way to stardom. For you, things arc looking good, so he quick to respond. and the sky will he the limit. Your numbers arc 2. ti, 7. 28, 32. 39 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't get caught up in the mnmenl. You will make mistakes or miscalculate whut it is you huvc to do if you arc overly contidcnl. Check oul what everyone else is doing and make whatever adjustment is necessary. Keep your emotions in check. ••• . TAllRUS (April20-Muy 20): Hard work will pay off tnduy. Dna lillie extra and ynu will impress lhe people around you. Do something nice for someone you like. Nnlhing w"ill he or should he too much !rouble for you. *** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): You may not be aware of the underlying message someone is sending you. Although this can he a rather auspicious uuy, he uware thul nol everyone is on your side. Your lincsse unu fahulous way of lining things will draw envious onlookers. ••••• CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): Don't lctunyonc get you uown. Lnok hcyonu the trivial muliers going on in your life to ull of the goou things happening arounu you. Don'l overreact hccause someone else tines. ** LEO (.July 23-Au~. 22): Home is where the heart is, and today you can dn something to improve your surrounuings anu make the ones you love happier. An opportunity to learn something new is present. Listen anu ask questions, and you will lind the answer to a problem. •••• VIRGO (Au~. 23-Sept. 22): Check out the possibilities of a job or a new way to bring in extra money. Someone will have some interesting suggestions regarding an investment A relationship that has heen going nowhere will begin to open up and change. *** LIHRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Don't go getting emotional about something thut may never even happen. You arc over-analyzing the situation you face ami thus making matters worse. Put your time and effort into something creative that will spin you in a positive direction. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your secrets must he well-protected. Events that unfold today can bring you greal joy and prosperity. The more creative and three-uimensional you are. the more attention you will receive. Don'l hold hack. ••• SAGITTARiliS (Nov. 22-Der. 21 ): You may want to pay very close anention to who is on your side. Help will be available, but only if you arc clever in how you handle others. A short trip and new acquaintances bring positive results. •••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.lan. 19): You can share some of your iueus wilh people you totally trust, hul when it comes to money ventures, keep your thoughts to yourself. Someone may not he us ~ustwm1hy us you think. Be prepared to deal with a hackstuhher. 
AQUARiliS (.Jan. 20-Feb. Ill): There is plenly going on in your head. You arc jumping lrmn one thing to another. Join forces with someone who can make a uiffercnce to your future. Setting trends will he your thing. Don't he afraid to stand out in a crowd. 
***** 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Focus on money, pn>perly and taking care of legal or linancial matters. Realize thai sometimes less is more. Striving for revenge is a waste of time anu energy anu will only result in negativity anu a lack or prouuctivity. ••• 
Birthday Baby: You have everything that's required in order to get ahead in life. Your cham1. sincerity and kinuness will lead you into some of the mosl fortunate circumstances 
throughout your life.  
Check  out  Eugenia's  Web  silt'S  at  astroadvice.com and eugenia/asr.com  
The Observer  
P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

. 

THE OBSERVER 





PORTS
Tuesday, March 1, 2005 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Big East title lies within reach 
Irish need win, some help from conference foes 
Dame has been a member of Wooden award, is averagingBy HEATHER 
the conference. 17.6 points, 6.5 rebounds and VAN HOEGARDEN 
No. 10 Notre Dame (24-4, 12-2.9 assists per game. Sports Editor 
3 Big East) is red-hot coming "I can't even put into words off an 82-57 Saturday after­what Teresa a-nd Jackie mean 
With just one regular season noon blowout of West Virginia to me," junior point guard game remaining, Notre Dame for Senior Day. The Irish have Megan Duffy said. "I don't even needs some help from a fellow won 11 of their last 12 games want to think about what it's Big East team if it wants to win coming into tonight's matchup going to be like next year with­the regular season conference with the Pirates. During this out having my two sidekicks title. The Irish are currently in stretch, Notre Dame has been next to me. Their work ethic is second place behind No. 9 led by senior Teresa Borton. something I've always looked Rutgers (22-5, 13-2 Big East). Borton, named last week's up to." To claim a share of the title, Big East Player of the Week, Duffy has run the show this Notre Dame needs to beat had 18 points, nine rebounds season for the Irish, and is Seton Hall tonight, and have and five blocks in her home averaging 11.7 points per game the Scarlet Knights lose to finale Saturday on 8-for-9 and 5.6 assists per game. On Villanova. shooting. Borton, who has not Saturday, she had a double­
Regardless of how the missed a game in her four double against West Virginia Rutgers game turns out, If the years at Notre Dame, was hon­with 12 points and 10 assists. Irish defeat Seton Hall (14-12, ored Saturday along with fellow ''I'm really pleased," Irish 6-9 Big East) tonight, Notre senior All-American Jacqueline coach Muffet McGraw said. Dame will finish in the top two Batteast. Batteast, who is a "We don't want to lose our edge of the Big East for the ninth midseason candidate for the 
...... 
time in the 10 years Notre Naismith Trophy and Women's see PIRATES/page 22 


BENGAL BOUTS 
First punches thrown at this year's Bengal Bouts 
,­
In 155-poundfight, Sullivan and Piery fought a fairly
Lawrence Sully beats 
even first round. The second Calderone defeats Mike Fiery, referee round, however, saw Sullivan's trademark right hooks get theTownsend easily stops contest in third better of Piery's nose and forced thn ref to temporarily stop the fight. When the mateh rnsumed,
By JOHN EVERETT By TIM DOUGHERTY 
Sullivan's power and punch
Sports Writer Sports Writer 
combinations in the third and final round reopened Piery's 
Chris Calderone, a sophomore The first day of preliminary. wounds, prompting the referee's with a quick jab, needed little time rounds for the 75th annual decision. to come away the victor in a Notre Dame Bengal Bouts start­Will "The Thrill" Bezouska match against John Townsend. ed off with a bang. defeated Richard Cea in a three­The light was stopped upon the The first match showcased round split decision. The left­conclusion of the first of three freshman Lawrence "Sully" handed junior from Dillon Hall scheduled rounds. Calderone will Sullivan defeating sophomore was the aggressor in each of the go on to !'ace Paul "Paulie Mike Piery. The referee stopped three rounds, using his quick Walnuts" Hagan, who whacked the contest (referred to as an r~et to position himself for Drew "Jermaine O'Neal" Whiting RSC) 40 seconds into the third strong right jabs early in the 
round. Fighting in the 140­see BOUTS/page 22 pound Lightweight division, see FIGHTS/page 22 

ND SOFTBALL 
Ruthrauff's early season success no surprise 
Irish record-holder has proven her ability to produce on offense 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 

The weekend did not begin at all as planned. 
The Irish had already amassed an 0-4 record at the Palm Springs Classic and were in dan­ger of going 0-5 as they faced a dominating Tennessee team with a 16~ 1 record and a No. 5 national ranking. 
But after Meghan Ruthrauff came up to bat in the third inning and smacked a three-run home run over the left field fence, the team's snoozing bats finally came to life and Notre Dame knocked off the vaunted Vols 5-2. 
Not that anyone should be sur­prised. Ruthrauff has a history of making the big hit. 
"When I go up to the plate, I just look for something in my zone, and if it's there, I swing at it," Ruthrauff said. "Against Tennessee, the ball just looked like a beach ball on its way up there, and I really think I've been seeing the ball better just in general this season and it's really made me a better hitter overall." 
Already this season, the junior first baseman is hitting .276 and has five RBI, second on the team to senior Megan Ciolli. But Ruthrauff has already put her name in the record books after having 54 RBI last season and placing herself second all-time for the Notre Dame RGI in a sea­son mark -Melanie Alkire's 64 in the 2000 season is first. 
Ruthrauff has also proven her­self to be a patient hitter in addi­tion to coming through in the dutch-in the 2003 season, she set the Notre Dame single sea­son record for walks with 36. 
"When you see pitches well, it's a lot easier to realize which pitches are ones you should lay off of," she said. ''I'm a much more disciplined hitter this sea­son." 
And if that wasn't impressive enough, she's also ranks first on the all-time fielding percentage list with a .995 mark. And that 
see RUTHRAUFF/page 21 


NFL NCAA NCAA BASKETBAU. MlB NBA NCAA BASKETBAll. 
w 

Co) Notre Dame defensive More than 400 col-At 46 years old, Julio Tim Thomas scored a John Chaney sus­
Pittsbu~h 72

z end Justin Tuck is mak-leges are in danger of Boston ollege 50 Franco reported to season-high 35 points to pended himself for the ing noise at the NFL losing scholarships for camp with the Braves as lead the Knicks in their A-10 tournament for his 
:s 

= combine in Indianap-poor academic perform-The Panthers easily the oldest player in overtime victory over actions in a Temple olis. ance. handed the Eagles their baseball. the Lakers, 117-115. game against St.
cc 

third loss of the season. Joseph's last week 
!;: 

page 19 page 19 page 18 page 18 page 17 page 16 






