

Bush set for second inaugural celebration 
Country, Notre Dame still divided 
By MADDIE IlANNA 
New' Writt·r 
As l'r·psidnnt Bush bt>gins his sn<:ond tPrm in ol'f'irP today, nal.ional polls as wnll as Notrn llarrw prol'nssors and st.udnnts l'ind liH~ nation just as politi­nilly dividnd as it was during Novl'mlwr's contnnl.ious <dne­Uon. 
A l'<·w I!PsParch Contnr poll l'or .lan. !i-9 cit.nd Bush's approval rating as !iO pnrcont. and disapproval rating as 4:{ pPr<'Pilt. whil'h polit.i•·al sei­PilCP proi'Pssor David Camplll•ll dl'scrilwd as "histor-
By KATIE PERRY Nt·w,Writt·r 
This yPar·. Notn~ llanw was onP ol' tlw rnost'I'Pat.urod coi­IPgPs in thP l'rinr.nton Hnvinw's "Bnst :~:;7 Collngos" book list­ings, appnaring in I0 ol' tho 64 total eatngorins. Whiln rnueh ol' t.lw att.nnt.ion following the rankings' rnlnasn was dorninat­Pd by tiH• llnivl'rsity's eontro­vnrsial l'irst-placn ranking in t.hn 1:at.Pgory of "Aitnrnativo l.ifnstylns Not an Altnrnativn," many of its otlwr top l'inishns rwvPr got a sncond look. 

President Bush's second Inauguration takes places In Washington, D.C. today. Both the nation sc:c: BUSH/page 6 and Notre Dame remain in disagreement about the president and his views. sec: SPEECH/page 6 
Princeton rankings not all bad 
Despite lozu grades in sonze areas, ND ranks high in athletic categories 
Thn annual rankings pmvide din~dion and information l'or many-eollnge bound high school students and thoir· par­onts. To rank tlw schools. the Prinenton Hnvinw snlncts what tlw y eo n s i d n r to bo t h o to p schools -:{!i7 madn the cut this ynar -and eatngorizes thorn into top-20 lists focusing on diiTnn~nt !'.ritnria. 
According to thn Princeton Hnvinw's Wnb site, rankings are basnd on approximatnly 300 survnys adrninistnrnd nithnr nlnetronically online or via papnr ovnr a period or three years. In a pledge posted on their wnbsito, tho Prinenton Heview vows to delivnr an "unbiasnd and uncnnsornd vinw" of' the featured universi­ties and adds that rankings are gnnnratod from "tho real exports" -current eollnge stu­dnnts. 
Among the UnivPrsity's favor­able rankings. ono-third diroet­ly involvod athletics. Notre Dame took top honors in the categories "Everyone Plays In tram ural Sports" and 
see REVIEW/page 4 
Building collapses on CJ's Pub 
Nearby demolition causes problem 
By KATE ANTONACCI 
A"i't.llll Nt·w, Editor 
ThrnP nrnployP<'S ol' C.J's Pub on North Michigan Strnnt Wf'rP unharrnl'd WPdrwsday al'lPrnoon wl11•n dPrnolition on thn liatnway apartnwnt eorn­plnx rwxt door wont wrong, rausing part ol' thn six-story building to collapse onto the roof ol' tlw puh. 

Though C.I 's has long boon a popular rnstaurant and bar l'or Notrn Damn students, only a rook, waitrnss and bar­I.PtHinr wnrn inside at tlw limn of' thn wllapsP. 
"Wn'd bonn working with a dl'rnolition company on !the 
see CJ'S/pagc: 4 


Ceremony stands out historically 
By MADDIE HANNA 
News Writer 
Prnsidnnt Bush's inaugunt­tion today will mark tho oiTi­eial beginning of' his sneond four ynars in oflkn, placing him in tho growing -and ehallnngi ng -category of soeond-tnrrn prnsidnnt.s. 
"Thn inauguration is a rcJminder that this chang<' is part ol' a broad transition. It's rnally important to do this," f'ilm, television and t.hnatrn professor Susan Olwwr said. 
According to Ohnwr, tlw inauguration's ritual and cer­emony send thn rnnssagn that. 

CLAIRE KELLEY!The Observer Despite negative rankings in some categories, Notre Dame earns high marks from the Princeton Review for athletics. 
STUDENT SENATE 

Members strive for ---··­African solidarity 
Effort made to bring Bono to University 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
Assistant News Editor 

Tho Sturlnnt Snnatn was focused on tlw "call to soli­
darity"  with  Al'rica  at  
Wednosday's mooting,  as  
presenters urgnd  thorn  to  

support plans f'or an "AI'rica Wnek" and nndorsn a letter to Bono, lnad si11gnr of' U2, requesting a U2 benefit con­cert. 
Emily Chin, Laura Fneney and Moghan llanzliek ask1~d Senate to baek thnir nl'forts to continue thn mission of' raising thn awareness about 
. '' 
'' 

Africa startnd last yPar 
when  a  group tntvPind  to  
Nignria with  "'f'hn Call  to  
Solidarity."  

They showed a vid!HI with dips from tlw Nignria trip, snt to a rock vnrsion of "Somewlwrll Ovnr thn Hainbow," fnaturing Africans speaking to thn irnport11ncn of' di!Tnrnnt cultures joining tognthnr in brotlwrhood. 
llanzlick tlwn nxplairwd the purpose of Africa Wnnk -tentativPJy snt for mid­April. 
"It'd bn about bringing tlw 
see SENATE/page: 6 

r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, January 20, 2005 

INSIDE COLUMN 


A day in the life 
From the time I was live, I've known I wanted to be a teacher. I was the child who always wanted to "play school" in real time -from the moment my older brother left the house for the bus 
until the second he came home. I made sure to play all the important subjects -color­ing, snacking, nap­ping and occasion­ally, the alphabet. I loved playing 


school. Angela Saoud 
And then last 
week, it was time 

for me to give up Saint Mary's 
my childhood Editor 
vision of school 
and face reality as 
a student teacher. 

Arming myself with novels and 
poems, newspaper articles and movie 
clips, I marched into Washington High 
School in South Bend last Monday 
thinking I was ready to teach. And I 
am, but it takes a lot of work. 
It's a little known fact that after we all left our high school classrooms, our .teachers actually had to do work. And 
not just a little work. A lot of work. 
Student teaching means planning les­
sons for live difl'erent periods, waiting 
in line to use the photocopier to make 
handouts, writing tests and quizzes 
(something I always hated) and trying 
to devise thought provoking lessons 
that will really help my students to 
learn something about English and 
about themselves. 

While my friends are getting ready to 
take their Wednesday night nap before 
hitting State, I'm already in my paja­
mas, looking to Shakespeare for inspi­
ration or discovering ways to entice 
my students into writing a research 
paper. 

The task is daunting to say the least. 
I feel as though I have more pressure 
placed on me now than I have ever felt 
before -because if I make a mistake 
this time, I'm letting down 125 high 
school seniors and myself. 

And as my friends sleep in late, and 
my presence on campus diminishes, I 
wonder if I'm doing the right thing. 
But it only takes one smile from a 
student in the hallway, one "Hey Miss 
S" to let me know my heart is in the 
classroom with my students ­
although it occasionally slips away to 
my college life. 

To say my life has changed this 
semester would be a vast understate­
ment. I'm in the classroom every day, 
leaving me a lot less time to be on 
campus and with my friends. But when 
a student writes something amazingly 
insightful in an essay question or says 
something so profound I wish I had 
thought of it, I get a feeling inside that 
I've yet to feel anywhere else-a feel­
ing that says no matter how much 
work I have, or how little sleep I get or 
that if my social life becomes non-exis­
tent, it's not going to matter. 
And when I walk into the classroom 
next Monday, ready to teach for the 
entire day, I'm going to be more than 
ready. 

Because when I'm teaching, I am 
home. 

Contact Angela Saoud at 
saou0303@saintmarys. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside 
Column are those of the author and 
not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO IS YOUR FAVORITE POET AND WHY? 





Bridget Higgins Jim Hyde Molly Butler Dan McSwain Molly Kealy Kate Lenehan 
freshman senior junior senior sophomore sophomore Cavanaugh O'Neill Pasquerilla East O'Neill Lyons Pasquerilla West 
"Tennyson-"Homer -it's "Garrison "Whoever "Dr. Seuss, "Molly -she 
,

it's so romatic. I epic. Keillor, because writes on the because I love writes me 
,

love The Lady he wears red bathroom stall. " Seuss-ical the sonnets. 
ofShallot."' shoes." 

CLAIRE KELLEYrThe Observer 
Food Services placed ice sculptures in front of North and South Dining Halls to cel­ebrate "All-American Day." 
OFFBEAT 

park violence. Right after jury selection began last week, one man got up and left, announcing, ''I'm on morphine and I'm higher than a kite." 
When the prosecutor asked if anyone had been convicted of a crime, a prospective juror said that he had been arrested and taken to a mental hospital after he almost shot his nephew. He said he was provoked because his nephew just would not come out from under the bed. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Shrieking frogs unnerve Hawaiian island 
HONOLULU -A tiny frog with a huge shriek has invaded the Big Island and won't shut up. Big Island Mayor Harry Kim is look­ing for $2 million to begin controlling the spread of the nocturnal coqui frog, a beloved native in Puerto Rico but considered an annoying pest in Hawaii since hitching a ride over in shipments of tropical plants around 1990. 
Six ways to upgrade your PC, when not to upgrade and tips on backing up. 
The frogs have been mat­ing easily -and shattering 
TODAY 
0: 

quiet island nights -ever since. 
Aside from the noise, the frogs have a voracious appetite for spiders and insects, competing with native birds and fauna. And coqui frogs are adapt­able to many ecosystems and breed heavily in Hawaii, experts said. 
D.A. confronts "jury pool from hell" 
MEMPHIS, Tenn. Defense attorney Leslie Ballin called it the "jury pool from hell." The group of prospective jurors was summoned to listen to a case of Tennessee trailer 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 


musical." 
IN BRIEF 

HecSports will sponor its 19th annual Late Night Olympics. The all-night fundraiser, start­ing Saturd~ty at 6 p.m. and last­ing until Sunday at 4 a.m., will benefit the St. Joseph County Special Olympics. 
The Notre Dame Student Film Festival will take place tonight, Friday and Saturday. Each showing, one from 7 to 9 
p.m. and one from 10 p.m. to midnight, includes 18 student features and takes place at the Browning Family Cinema of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
University of Michigan eco­nomics professor will present a lecture on "The Boomers Approach Retirement: Policies to Prepare for Growing Old in an Aging America" Friday from 10:30 a.m. to noon in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
Notre Dame men's and women's track teams will host their home opener Friday from 7 to 9 p.m. in the Loftus Sports Center. 
Organist Chris Cramer will present a concert tonight from 8 to 10 p.m. in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. Free tickets are required. 
The Harlem Globetrotters will play at the Joyce Center Arena Friday from 7 to 8:30 
p.m. Tickets are available through the Joyce Center ticket office. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

18 
13 


HIGH LOW 
1.&.1 
:::1: 
!;;: 
1.&.1 

3: 
..... 
<( (.) 


0 

HIGH 24
.... 
LOW 11 

14 11 


23 20 

HIGH LOW 

Atlanta 74 I 62 Boston 70 I 49 Chicago 64 I 48 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 78 I 72 Minneapolis 80 1 62 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 168 Washington 75 1 49 
. '. 
Thursday, January 20, 200'5 

The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Saint Mary's anticipates opening of nevv Student Center 
Building will include space for student government, campus publications, theater, new bookstore, Internet cafe 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
Assi\1.1111 News hliwr 
hn· months. Saint Mary's stu­dPrlts haw hPnn wondPring what Pxartlv liPs hPyond lhP brick walls of tJu."npw SturiPnl CPntPr. 
TIH'y haw SPPn tlw driwway pawd, hrass fittings and a dock pul outsidP, and haw PVPn bonn ahln to lift thl' siH'Ill s11paral.ing tho dining hall and tiH' nPw lobby to !{PI a quil'k look at tlw unlinislwd building. 
t\cl'ording to l'arilitins dirPetor .John lll'l.l'!', tiH•y will l'ind out soon. 
"It's srhPduiPd !'or a Fdmtary !'omplntion," Dni.!Hl said. "It should all bn dorw hy thn 25th of J."PI>ruary, and right now wn'rn planning to movn Studnnt t\rlivitillS, ntc. lin! ovPr break 
Wf'(~k." 
Tlw building's thrnn llwnls will hold ollirns, llll'llting rooms and <"onfnrnncn rooms for Studnnt t\rtivitins <L<; wnll as s1wnral other studnnt groups su<"h as stud11nt govnrnnH•nt. thP Blun Mantln and a work an•a for Tlw Observer. Spacl' is also snt <L<;idn li>r Campus Ministry, l.hn Ollicl' of Multicultural Affairs and a nnw women's l"llsourcn n1ntnr to supplmn11nt the l'liiTlml l.nMans llall spm:n. 
Studnnt activities dir11etor !:Pm'gl•anna Hosenhush said tlw building will haw ewrything stu­dPnl<; IIPI'd. 
"I've benn involvnd sinen the hPgirming with studenL<; and liteul­ty and othnr administrators to basically como up with what we rwnd," slw said. "We took a !:am­JHIS inventory for what we nnnd. canw up with a stratngir. plan." 

Hosnnbush. who said the plan li>r a student cnntnr bngan about livn yPars ago, rallnd thn invnntory a "wish list liw studnnl<;." 
Tlw list includes a brand nnw bookstore location, two studnnt lounges, a First Source Bank branch. a 1:onvnninncn store and a tlwatnr. 
Tho nnw cnntnr will also contain a cylwr cafi), whnrn studenl<; will havn wirnlnss lntnrnut accnss. The cali\ will li1aturn grab-and-go styln nwals and an outdoor patio fadng l.nMans. 
"We'rn hoping to got Adirondack chairs and things likn that so pno­pln can sit oul<;ide and enjoy the weather," Hosenbush said. "We'rn vnry nxdtnd -it's going to b1\ a nkn !itdlity." 
The building will also accommo­date two groups the llaggar Student Center did not-off-earn­pus studnnl<; and thn prnsidnnt of tlw Collngn. 
The l'rnsidnnt's Dining Boom will have spaee for dining with about hO visiting dignitaries and guests, a preparation arna for eatnring, and a torraeo. 
"Wn'll still have the wnst wing to havn biggnr nvnnl<; and dinners in tlwro as wnll." Hosenbush said. "Wn'll have an olr-eampus kitchen arna that will bn a full kitehnn for tlwir lunch." 
Snnior Hobin Blume said shn was especially pleasnd Saint Mary's was aiding studnnts who ehoose not to live in tho dorms. 

''I'm thrilled that something on this campus is lbr off-campus stu­dent<; too," she said. 
Other students eomparnd tho curmnt eonstruction to the build­ing of the Noble Family Dining Hall, aetually the first part of a two-phase plan including the Studnnt Centnr. 
"I thought there was a bigger need for a new aeademie hall before a nnw dining hall was built," senior Candace Schmidt said. "llowevnr, I think the student cHntnr was neednd to fullill SMC student, li:u:ulty, and stall' nneds." 

DeLee expects the Student Center to be well usnd and said students will not be disappointed when the ladlity finally opnns alter break. 
"Them's not going to bn any part of it lstudcnL<;I won't like," she said 
Hosenbush said the move from llaggar to tho new building would help Saint Mary's feel morn like a campus. 
"I think tho students am going to be very exdted about it," she said. "I think it's also going to be a place that they'rn going to takn a lot of ownership li>r, because it is cal111d 'Student Cm1ter."' 
Hosnnbush nmphasiznd the I Iaggar C.ollngn Center rmnains an important part of thn Collngn's his­tory, and it will still bn usnd !'or various functions. llowevnr, Hosm1bush also said shn li1nls tlw nnw Studnnt Cnntnr will bneonw a plaen of union li>r thn r.ampus and il<; futuro studnnl<;. 
"llaggar is a wmulnrful gill of thn Haggar family, and for 22 ynars it gave tlw studnnl<; a spot, gave it a bnginning," Hosenbush said. "This is whore tho students am going, I sne that <L<; a tribute to the leadership on our campus and tho impact th11y havn had on our campus." 
Contact Nicole Zook at Zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

Thursday, January 20, 2005 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS 
vide well-rounded and com­Notre Dame is characterized Dame can allow formerly com­top five "Jock Schools" in the plete recreational offerings." by the above-average athleti­petitive students to rediscover a nation.
Review 

! . 
Sophomore Ryan Hitter, an cism of its student body, as continued from page 1 active member of intramural each year it accrues a large sports from Sorin number of former "Students Pack the Hall, agreed that high school ath­
"Jnterhall sports 
Stadiums," and ranked fourth both the students letes. The spirited among the "Jock Schools." an<;! opportuni­have done more nature of the inter­
Richard O'Leary, director of ties provided by hall sports pro­
than just fill a 
intramurals and club sports, the University gram serves to fill
void."
attributed the widespread stu­itself play crucial a void for those dent involvement in interhall roles in the pop­who have previ­athletics to the organizational ularity of non­Ryan Ritter ously participated efforts of RecSports, as well as varsity athletics sophomore in competitive the general enthusiasm of the at Notre Dame. sports, O'Leary student body. "I think it's said. 
"The Athletic Department has mostly the students that fuel "Our intramural program always supported the athletic the popularity of our intramu­may be filling a competitive interests of the entire student rals, but thankfully RecSports desire that has been carried body," O'Leary said. "We are has given the students plenty of over from their high school also blessed with a student opportunity to do so," Ritter days," he said. body that requires us to pro-said. Ritter argued that Notre 




JPW Mass 
Lector Au~itions 

JPW Lector auditions will take place in -a;·~ Basilica of the Sacred 1-leart on each of the following dates: 
Monday, January 24th at 5:00pm Tuesday, January 25th at 5:00pm 
Please attend one of the two auditions. Fo1· further information> please contact Harv Humphrey at 271-7289 or by email at hhumphre@nd.edu 

C-M 
Campus M inislry 


La Bohime, Madame Butterfly
and La Traviata 

Featured Performers: SAI11R,DA¥, 22 •a~aa pm 
Agreat romantic escape on a Saturday nrght. Thts performance will feature Italian romance ~ at its best. Be sure to experience it with your special someone. 
nckets start at: 
Eric Ashcraft, tenor Mantma Gao, soprano Adults $17 
Students$& 
Call 574-235·9190 
southbendsymphony.com 

Concert Sponsor: Diane andPaul Herman I GuestArtist Underwriter: <:AM General 

sometimes overlooked outlook Another category in which on sports. Notre Dame was placed among 
"lnterhall sports have done the top 10 was "Students Pray more than just fill a void," on a Regular Basis," Junior Hitter said. ''I've found that Amanda Murillo said that while they also bring back the rea­Notre Dame provides ample sons most of us started playing opportunity for prayer, it is the in the first place -having fun." students themselves who drive 
The importance of dorm the religious devoutness on pride also lends itself to the campus. popularity of intramural sports "There are so many opportu­at Notre Dame, as students nities to become involved in band with their hall communi­religious activities, and stu­ties rather than self or random­dents at Notre Dame are eager ly-assembled teams. Dorm to grow in their faith," Murillo pride helps to fuel competition, said. "They encourage each Ritter said. other and support one another 
Because many to grow spiritual-Notre Dame stu­}y. " dents are athletes 'There are so Numerous themselves, they many opportunities clubs, organiza­
have a marked tions and retreats
to become involved 
appreciation for organized intercollegiate in religious through Campus athletics. The activities. " Ministry and University's first­other religious place ranking in programs at
Amanda Murillo
the category of school offer "Students Pack the junior opportunities for Stadiums" shows prayer and per-that students sonal religious enjoy playing the role of athlete reflection for the students of as well as that of spectator. Notre Dame. Murillo is an 
The athletic history of many active member of many of these Notre Dame students allows programs, including Society of them to recognize the impor­the Ivory Tower -which stud­tance of fan support at athletic ies the theology of the body ­events. and Eucharistic Adoration. 
"I feel a certain responsibility "I try to be involved in things and desire to do whatever I can that will encourage growth in to help our sports teams my prayer life," Murillo said. because I've played on many Other categories featuring teams myself, and I know full Notre Dame in the top 20 well that fans play a large role include "More to Do On in any game," freshman Kyle Campus" and "Great Campus Meade said. Food." 
The large number of intramu­ral athletics participants and varsity sports attendees helped Contact Katie Perry at Notre Dame rank among the kperryS@nd.edu 



CJ's 
continued from page 1 
building] and this was kind of a surprise this afternoon," said Huth Linster, media rela­tions manager for 
Memorial Hospital and Health Systems, which owned Gateway and hired Warner and Sons, Inc. of Elkhart to tear down the building. 
"I had gone by about five minutes before this thing hap­pened and everything looked like it was going smoothly," she said. "I don't know the total damage, but I under­stand that CJ's is not function­ing right now. We're looking into it and trying to figure out what happened with that dem­olition crew." 
Rick Medick, owner of CJ's Pub, spoke with WNDU after the accident. 
"It sounded like a bomb was going off," he said. "I was just walking into the building. I missed the whole collapse by about 1 0 seconds." 
The Observer was unable to reach Medick on Wednesday. 
Following the accident, a crew began clearing the rub­ble and removing excess debris. The total damage will be evaluated once the cause of the collapse is determined, Linster said. 
Memorial Hospital released a statement Wednesday after­noon saying that they will be working with a contractor and insurance company to investi­gate the accident and deter­mine how to best restore CJ's, Linster said. 
Memorial Health System was demolishing the complex with the intention of putting new buildings up in the space in the future. 
"It had been a hotel and apartment building years ago. Sometime in the 80s it was converted into office space," Linster said. "We've owned it for the past few years and there was just too much that needed to be done to rehab it for our uses so we'd been planning on taking it down and temporarily using it as a parking lot. 
"It was bizarre because we had just had a news confer­ence about a different build­ing we were going to put up and we knew this was coming down at the same time, but not in the way we did. 
"I would imagine that this has an effect on students." 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 





ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, January 20, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE 0HSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page '5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Palestinians promise quick action 
(;/\Z/\ CITY, Gaza Strip -Thn top l'alnstinian sneurity eommandnr said Wndnnsday lw will doploy forens on Gaza's honiPr with lsnwl to pmvnnt roekot attaeks, tlw l'irst concrntn stop to rnin in militants sinc:n l'alostinian loador Mahmoud /\bbas took ol'lic:o ov1w thn wonkond. 
l.atnr, lsnwli l'rinw Minist«~r /\ri«d Sharon d!l«:idnd lo rnsunw socurily talks with tho l'alnstinians-lil'ting a throat to rotaliato for an attack last W«Wk that killod six lsraoli civilians ala <iaza dwckpoint. 
Snrurily of'f1cials from tho two sidos worn to moot Ialor WP1hwsday to discuss ways of slopping l'alnstinian rockPt firo in tho norlh­nrn Caza Strip. lsraoli officials said. l'alt•stinians confirnwd l.lw talks, saying thny would lako plaeo at tlw l·:roz ehoekpoint lwiWPPn c;aza and lsraPI. 
U.N. calls for new warning system 
KOBI•:..Japan-With multiple nations pul­ling forward projnrts for a tsunami-warning systnm. tlw Unitml Nations said Wndnosday it should sot up tlw systom and oxtnnd it glob­ally. hut tiHl Unitod Statos voit~od doubts about. tlw U.N. ability to run sud1 a program. 
Tlw /\sian tsunami disastor domonstratnd with tPrTil'ying pownr l.lw n1wd for an alnrt systnm in llw Indian Ocnan and ot.hnr parts ol' thn world, hut t.lw outpouring ol' support to build mw has gonoratod a plnthora of ovnr­lapping proposals. 
/\mid tlw 1:onl'usion. U.N. oiTieials at tho World Conli!rc>nct• on l>isastor BPdudion in Kohn, .Japan, raiiPd WP!hwsday for eoordina­1ion of Pl'l'orls -and insistPd on thoir own t'Pnlral rolo in marshaling t.lw PXpPrtiso and sPI.Iing up t.lw systt•m. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
FBI alerts Boston police of suspects 
BOSTON -Tlw FBI notifiod law onl'oreo­mnnl oflit:ials Wndnnsday lo bn on t.lw look­out l'or !'our Chinnso nationals doscribml as possibln tnrTtll' suspnds whti may ho hoadod to l.hn Boston arna. 
Fndoral law onforcm1wnt of'li<:ials said thoy had r!H'oivod a tip about an unspneifiod throat against Boston. and rnlnasod photo­graphs of tlw two nwn and two wonwn thny Wl'l'l~ s1wking. /\uthoritins said nono of tho na11ws had bonn on prnvious watch lists of t.nrror suspnc:ts. 
Tho irrvostigation slirn~d a fnmzy of nwdia rPports and promplnd c;ov. Milt Homnoy, who had gorw to Washington to atl!md Thursday's pn~sidnnlial inauguration, to doddo to rnt.urn to MassachusPtls latPr Wmlnosday. 
Four suspected of terror ties 
W/\SIIIN(;TON -Authorities havn arrnstnd four pPopiP ac:rusnd of having lies to suspeet­Pd tPrrorists and hlorknd 12 morn from PntPring tlw Unitnd Stal!~s in tho first two wnPks of this ynar, according to govnrnnwnt docunwnts. 
l>aily rPports from tho llonwland Soeurity OptH'ations Cnnl!H' do not contain dassifiPd information. But tlwy aro not distrihutnd pub­tidy and gnnnrally intnndnd to rnmain socrol. 
Tlwy oiTnr a glimpso into what national sorl!rity oiTicials arn doing to pn~vont an attack. ddailing arrnsts, criminal incidonls and law nnfon~onwnt lips. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Governor proposes tax increase 
lloosiPrs with taxahlo incomes of morn 
than $100,000 would pay a Lomporary I 
IH'rronl surtax on this yoar's. income 
undPr a propos<d made Tuosday night by 
c;ov. Mitrh Daniels to lwlp oliminato t.hn 
sla to's d1dirit. 
Tlw addnd lax would bring tho state 
$2110 million, oarmarkod for next yoar's 
oslimatPd $h45 million budget. hole, 
l>ani1>fs said in his first. Slatn of t.ho Slate 
spnnch. 
Judge thro-ws out couple's la-wsuit 
Same-sex marriage law upheld in lawsuit filed by gay Massachusetts couple 
Associated Press 
'1'/\MP/\, Fla. -In what 
is believed to be the first 
ruling or its kind, a judge 
on Wodnosday upheld the 
fmleral law lotting states 
ban samn-sex marriages, 
dismissing a lawsuit by 
two women seeking to 
have their Massaehusotts 
marriage recognized 
horn. 
Attorneys for eonsorva­live groups hailed the rul­ing by U.S. Distriet Judge Jamns S. Moody as an important first stop. but tho plaintiffs promised to appoal 
"This is a legal shot hoard 'round tho world," said attorney Ellis Hubin, who l'ilod the lawsuit on tho women's behalf. "But wo aro not giving up.... This ease is going to be resolved in tho U.S. Suprnmo Court. and I have said that sinco t.ho day I filed it." 
Although several feder­al casns are challenging tho ·t!J96 Defense of Marriagn /\ct, attorneys said WrHinesday's ruling was tho first by a federal judge on a diroet chal­lnngn to tho law. 

Moody sided with for­mnr Attorney General .John Ashcroft, who argtwd in court filings that thn government has speeil'ieally bans same­women. "Dnspitn this ruling, we a legitimate interest in snx marriages. Moody said ho could not arn still marrind in our allowing states to ban Tho women argund that declaro marriage a "fun­lwarts, and legally mar­samn-sex marriages, t.he Dnfonsn or Marriage damental right," as thn rind in Massaehusntts," namely to encourage /\ct was unconstitutional lawsuit urged him to do, shn said. llnr partnnr "stable rela-because it and that hn was bound to add!Hl: "No civil rights tionships" for was dis­follow legal precedent. movnmnnt was lost on the rearing of criminatory "Tho legislatures of onn bad court. <Incision." children by ''This is a legal on tho basis individual stales may Consnrvalivn Christian both biologi­of sex and decide to overturn its groups applaudnd thn
shot heard 'round 

cal parnnts. violated precedent and strike ruling.
the world. " 

Tlw .luslico thnir funda-down" the law, Moody "Today we have wit­Department mental wrote. "But, until then, rwssnd a signilkant. victo­did not Ellis Rubin rights. this eourt is constrained ry _ for marriago and immediately B u t to hold !tho law] and the domocraey," said Tom
prosecuting attorney 

comment on Moody dis­Florida statutes ... consti­Minnory of Focus on the ruling. agrnnd, say­tutionally valid." Family. Thn group is 
Thn plain-ing the law Wilson, a ministnr for pushing for an amond­tilTs, Nancy Wilson and was not discriminatory Metropolitan Community mnnt to tho Constitution Paula Sehoenwether, a because it treats mon and Churches, one of the that would ban sanw-snx couple for 27 years who women equally and that world's largest congrega­marriagns. live in Tampa, were mar­the govornment met its tions of gay Christians, "Unfortunately, at any rind in Massachusetts in burden or stating a lngiti­said in a statement shn timn, marriago in any .July. They wanted their mate interest for allowing was prepared to take her jurisdietion is only on;~ union recognized in. marriages to exist only ehallongn to thn Supremn judgn away from boing Florida, whore stato law between men and Court. ruled unconstitutional." 

Bush 'eager' to start second term 
Associated Press 
W/\SIIINGTON -In a city brim­ming with pageantry undnr fortress-like security, Presidnnt Bush looked alwad Wednesday to his seeond inauguration, pledging to forge unity in a nation divided by polit.ieal diiTeroneos. ''I am eager and ready for the work ahoad," Bush dedared. 
In his. inaugural address Thursday, Bush will tell the country that events and common senso have lml him to one eondusion: "The sur­vival of liberty in our land increas­ingly depends on tho success of lib­erty in othor lands. Tlw bnst hope for peaeo in our world is tho oxpan­sion of' freedom in all the world." 

The Whito Ilouso on Wednesday night released exeerpts or the s peeel1 Bush wi II give after his swearing-in at tho Capitol. 
The throat of' terrorism prompted what authorities promised would be the tightest inaugural security ever deployed. /\ hair-million people wnre oxpeetnd to throng the city for the swoaring-in and the traditional parade along Pennsylvania /\venue 
from  the  Capitol  to  the  White  
llouso.  
Tho thundor of' l'irnworks  on  tho  

Ellipse began an inauguration-1we night or pageantry and parties for 
Bush, his wire. Laura. Vice Prosidnnt Diek Chnnny and his wife. Lynne. With a rrosh snow hlankl~t­ing eity strents and the tomperature in the low 20s, tho Bushns and Cheneys sal. outdoors on a heated stag1-~ at a musieal extravaganza called "/\Celebration of Frendom." 
"This is the eairse that unites our country and gives hope to tho world and will lead us to a ruture or peaeo," Bush told tho crowd. "Wo have a calling from bnyond thn stars to stand !'or l'rnndom, and America will always lw faithful to that eausn." 
Inauguration is a tinw of unity !'or our country, tho prnsidnnt said. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 20, 2005 
Speech 
continued from page 1 
"We're still here, we've overcome difficulties and we're still going." 
But the inauguration also signifies Bush's transition into his second term, which has proved problematic for many presidents.' 
"Second-term presidencies, historically in the later 20th century, tend to be very dis­appointing and crisis-ridden," political science professor Peri Arnold said, noting the troublesome second terms of Presidents Eisenhower, Johnson. Nixon and Reagan. "The problem looks like presi­dents enter the second term full of hubris ... [and] find that the mandate they thought they had was not a reality." 
The number of second-term presidents in recent years poses challenges for their critics and their constituents. Because the trend of presi­dents winning second terms has become fairly consistent in the past 25 years -out of the four most recent presi­dents, three have been reelected -Americans may come to expect it, Ohmer said. 
"If you read a second term as stability, we've had a 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
student body together for one week under one cause, and it would be amazing," she said. 
Chin then spoke about the letter to Bono -originally introduced to the Senate by llanzlick in November -that invites U2. to play a benefit c~mcert as what she called "the icing on the cake" for Africa Week. · 
Feeney emphasized Africa Week would go on with or without U2, but they should at least try to spark Bono's inter­est with a display of student support by way of a mass amount of signatures. 
The letter, once approved by Senate, would be sent to Bono as an initial expression of interest, and booths would be set up soon thereafter to col­lect the signatures. 
Though senators expressed their support of the idea, there was concern over the tone of the proposed letter, and they voted to have it rewritten for next week in favor of a "more professional style." 
After the presentation, Judicial Council president Brin Anderson spoke to Senate about the upcoming. student body presidential and vice presidential elections. Petitions were due Wednesday and candidates will be official­ly announced next week, she said. 
"It's also my job to inform you of any campaign proce­dure violations," Anderson said. "Consequently, we've already had one, regarding campaigning prior to approval." 
Though she did not specify which candidates were involved in the violation, Anderson said that a hearing was already held and sanc­tions were issued. 
In other Senate news: 

"A lot of people do still feel entered office in 2000, the
remarkable continuity in the 

that opposition," Bunick said. speculation in Washington,
last quarter century," which 

Bush 

While Bunick acknowl­D.C. was that he would becould mislead people into 
continued from page 1 edged that some members of middle of the road, reaching
considering two terms the 

the general public are "put out to Democrats in a biparti­normal length for a presiden­ically low" for a second­off and tired" after the inten­san fashion.
cy, Ohmer said. 

term president. sity of the election, many lib­"But the exact opposite
"When people don't get 

Campbell cited approval erals still have energy and a happened," Campbell said.
reelected in the future, will 

ratings for Presidents desire to push for reform. "Bush signaled publicly thatthat become troubling to us?" 
Clinton, Heagan, Nixon, "The more vocal elements he considers himself to haveshe asked. 
Johnson and Eisenhower on the left want to make it a mandate."
The prevalence of second 

from Pew or Gallup polls all clear to the public that this Arnold also questioned the
terms has also allowed the 

conducted during a similar stuff hasn't changed, it's still idea ol' a mandate.
media to gain influence over time. The lowest -Clinton's going on," she said, referring "Does he have a mandate in

the public's perception of a 

59 percent-was still signifi­to issues of liberal focus dur­major change for Socialpresidency. News coveragp, of cantly higher than Bu'sh's. ing the election. Security? Of course not," he
policies and proposals can 

"What appears to have hap­Reflecting upon the vehe­said. "But the President is the
often center on comparisons 

pened is as we go through mence present among some · biggest megaphone in public
between the two terms, 

the post-election period Iis] members of the Dnmocratie life."
Ohmer pointed out. "The extent to which [the we've kept that sense of divi­Party, Arnold said the polar­Although Bush will have a siveness," Campbell said. ization was based not just on Hepublican Congress during

media does I that can influ­

Similar to the Pew poll, a party, but also on Bush him­his second term, it is unclearence how we see the second Washington Post-ABC poll for self. how much ability he will have term," she said. 
Jan. 12-16 found Bush's "George Bush is a lightning to enact significant change. 
Even the president himself 

approval rating to be 52 per­rod," he said. "Liberal "It will be possible, but dif­can see the nation through a cent and disapproval rating Democrats see ficult to sign alldifferent lens during his sec­to be 46 percent. Bush as objec­Hepublicans ontoond term than he did during his first. Ohmer said a greater 
When broken down into tionable "There's nothing one issue -I subcategories, the poll because of his Bush can do­think his chances
awareness of the office and the country comes with a sec­

showed only 33 percent of style, open are less than a
except not be

Americans "approve strong­invocation of coin toss," Arnold
ond term. "When a president has a 

ly" of Bush, while a full 35 appeals to Bush." said. second term, he develops an 
percent "disapprove strong­religion, the Lauren Galgano, ly." veiled appear­president of Notre
understanding of broader 
Peri Arnold 

"l-Ie's not beginning, in ance and ref­Dame Right to
trends," she said. "Once 

political science 
reality, with a big wave of erences to the Life, said she wel­
you've been in there for a 
professor

support," political science notion that. comed the presi­
while, you have a bigger pic­ture, a stronger sense of his­

professor Peri Arnold said. there's a dent's second tory." 
Regarding public opinion, divine inter-term. "nothing's changed" since the vention in "politics that he "I am excited to see what bitter election season, said represents, and policies the team can accomplish with 
Contact Maddie Hanna at 

American Studies professor aimed at undoing the 70 the new dynamics," she said.
mhannal@nd.edu 

Tom Guglielmo. years of accumulated policies "I wouldn't say President And while tempers always from the New Deal." Bush has a mandate by any 
subside following an election,  Arnold saw limited possibil­ means, but he should certain­ 
Campbell said, the president  ities for Bush to  unite the  ly  feel  confident that the  
+ Finally, the Senate passed a resolution from the Committee  is not likely to benefit. "There's going to  be  no  country. "There's nothing Bush  can  majority of the nation sup­ports his leadership."  
on  Hesidence Life commend­ honeymoon  for  Bush,"  do  - except not be Bush," he  Galgano said she is confi­ 
ing the Office of Information Technologies for its efforts in starting a Dorm Printer Pilot Program that will install printers in five different resi­dence halls. Carroll,  Campbell said. American Studies professor Robert Schmuhl agreed. "We're certainly divided," Schmuhl said. "There are a number of reasons for that ­ said. However, some of the divi­sion is overstated, according to Campbell. "Often from the press we hear references to red and  dent Bush will stand firm on his anti-abortion stance. "[l-Ie will) nominate compe­tent judges who not only uphold the sanctity of life, but understand the  
Pasquerilla West, Stanford, Keenan and Welsh Family will be the trial dorms.  in part because of some of the figures who have been most promin~nt politically in  blue states, polarization, the sense of a divided country," he said. "It's easy to overplay  Constitution as it was intend­ed to be read by our Founding Fathers," she said.  
+ Committee  on  Academic  recent years.  that. Looking back over th11  Bunick said during Bush's  
Affairs chair Vijay Hamanan announced a College Headership pilot program -bringing students three national newspapers for free -would start in February. The pilot program itself will cost the student government nothing, but they are still looking into funding for the  Tom Rippinger, co-presi­dent of College Republicans, noted the contentious atmos­phere that still prevails after the November election. "The political climate's still polarized because of Iraq, with the war still going on, and the violence," he said. Nicola Bunick, co-president of College Democrats, said  entire span of history, w11're not much more so." Professors and students both said they ·thought the second term would progress much like the first term. "He's going to keep doing what he's doing, pleasing about 53 percent of the popu­lation and making the other 4 7 percent pretty mad,"  second term, Democrats want tg draw media attention to problems they see occurring. "There are unjust policies that I know a lot of Americans don't want to hap­pen," Bunick said. "It's not something that can be dropped now that the elec­tion's over."  
Contact Amanda Michaels at  the liberal opposition to Bush  Campbell said.  Contact Maddie Hanna at  
amichael@nd.edu  was still thriving.  Campbell said when Bush  mhannal@nd.edu  ·  

r-------------------------------------------------------------. ----------------------­



COME WARM 

Juy otte etttree
UPAf get otte free 
Enjoy our gourmet coffee drinks, 
(Valid Monday-Saturday in both locations. Not valid with any other 

steaming hot blueberry 
offer or holidays)

pancal<es, pastas, grilled pannini 
• Observer coupon •
sandwiches, or daily homemade 
expires 2/19/2oos 


soups. 
I I I 

L---------~-------------------------------------------------J~-----------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER 



USINESS
Thursday. January 20, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Report says economic activity up 
Dow Shopping, tourism, job numbers continued to expand nicely in last few months
10,539.97 -88.82

}ones 
Associated Press 
•
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,323 136 • 1,497,165,312 
WASlllNGTON 

Shoppers and tourists knpt AMEX I ,399.07 -1.53 salespeople busy, l'aetorins for thn most part hummnd
NASDAQ 2,073.59 -32.45 
and the jobs pieturfl

NYSE 7,059.27 -55.26 
brightened over the last S&PSOO I, 184.63 -11.35 few months, fresh signs NIKK£1(Tokyo) II ,405.34 0.00 that thn eeonorny is mov­
ing solidly ahead.

FTSE IOO(London) 4,818.30 -5.60 
Those were some of the devnlopments eontained in 

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
the Fnderal Heservn 's lat­SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) -6.89 -0.43 5.81 est snapshot of economic activity. rnleased
NASDAQ 100 TR SER I (QQQQ) -1.65 -0.64 38.08 
Wmlnesday. The Fed's sur­

AASTROM BIOSCIENCE (ASTM) +20.90 +0.70 4.05 
vey of busirwss conditions CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -3.15 -0.59 18.15 around thn country also suggested that inrlation
INTEL CP (INTC) -1.48 -0.34 22.60 
isn't currently a danger to the economy. Elnvnn of thn Fed's 12

30-YEAR BOND -0.43 -0.20 46.69 
regional districts chanu~­

I0-YEAR NOTE -0.19 -0.08 41.87 
terized economic activity 5-YEAR NOTE 0.00 0.00 37.17 from latn Novernbnr through narly January as
3-MONTH BILL +0.25 +0.25 23.27 
expanding. the Fed surveyCommodities said. The Clevnland dis­LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.62 47.86 triet, hownver, reported that activity in its region
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.20 423.30 
was mixed. 

PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.55 93.93 
Thn report is dubbed the Excha Rates Beige Book for the color of YEN I 02.8400 its cover. but the signals that it sent were anything
EURO 0. 7686 
but drab. These indicators POUND 0.5346 of an improving economy will be discussed when Fed
CANADIAN$ 1.2271 
policy-makers meet for the first time this year, on Feb.

IN BRIEF 1-2. 
Economie analysts are predicting that the Fed

GM to launch new China models 
probably will boost a key what had been an extraor­tronics and jewelry sold York City, where BroadwaySIIANGIIAI, China -Boosting its lineup in short-term interest rate by dinarily low level to a more well during the holiday theaters set a box-office an increasingly competitive market, General 
one-quarter percentage normal one now that the season," the report said. reeord during the last
Motors Corp. announced Tuflsday that it will point -to 2.50 pereent -economy has recovered Gift cards sold briskly in week of tho year." In the
launch a new snries of made-in-China at that time. from the 2001 reeession some markets, although Atlanta district, tourism
Clwvrolets next month. 
The Fed report suggests and terror attacks. sales of automobiles were also was strong. "CentralThe new small and mid-size models will roll that "the idea of measured The Fed survey said that mixed, the survey noted. Florida theme parks wereout in late February and will bn sold through a tightening remains the "consumer spending "Adding to the strength filled to capaeity," th(~ sur­nntwork of I00 dealerships to be set up across order of the day," said inereased in most districts" in household spending was vey noted. 
China to sell and Sflrvice the vehides, the 
Stuart Hoffman, chief sinee its last survey an increase in tourism in On the manufacturing
world's largest automaker said in a statement. 
eeonomist at PNC released in early several districts," the front, factory activity gen­CM has invested than $2 billion in China 
Financial Serviees Group. December. Consumer report said. erally strengthened.
since tiJIJH in joint vnntures that now make "The Beige Book didn't sig­spending is important Hotel oecupancy rates "Looking ahead, manufac­domestic brands as well as Buiek sedans, nal more concern about because it aecounts for were up in the Fed dis­turers expected conditionsChnvrolnt Blaznrs, minivans and other models. 
inflation or about the econ­roughly two-thirds of' all tricts of Boston as well as to rnmain positive in corn­ll dairns about an H percent share of China's omy. That's a perfeet economic aetivity in the San Francisco, where the ing months," the surveyvnhidn marknt. 
recipe for another quarter-. United States. number of Japanese visi­said. "Most districts
c;M China expanded its import lineup in 
point rate hike," he said. "Sales of luxury goods tors to Hawaii has reported that manufadur­2004 to meet strong demand for premium and Fed policy-makers raised were strong in the Kansas returned to pre-September ers intend to increase theirluxury vnhides. It introduced the Saab brand rates five times in 2004_ City, Philadelphia and San 11, 2001, levels, the report capital spending in 2005." 
in May and Cadillac a month later. 
with each increase by a Francisco districts, while said. If that happens, that quarter-point. It was part retailers in the Atlanta, In the New York region, eould bode well forDuPont to close its Indiana plant of a campaign that started Chieago and Kansas City "tourist aetivity was higher stronger hiring in the 
HOUND HOCK, Texas DuPont 
in June to move rates from districts reported that elec-both upstate and in New months ahead. l'hotomasks Inc., one of the world's top mak­nrs of photomasks for the computer-chip industry, Tuesday said it will cut about 100 jobs, or about 6 percent of its work force, as it moves to elose a photomask factory in Indiana in an effort to save money. 
United pilots agree on new contract
The plant, in Kokomo, Ind., is DuPont Photomasks' oldest factory. The company nxpncts it to shut down in the quarter ending Associated Press to discuss the new contraet on tions. .lune 30. Wednesday. But the flight attendants' and 
Photomasks, a key componnnt of semicon­CHICAGO -United Airlines and If approved, the latest agreement machinists' unions, joined by the ductor production, are etched plates of glass its pilots' union reached tentative will help United in its push to government's pnnsion agency and a usml by chip makers to transfer circuit pat­agreement on a revised new con­rewrite all its labor contracts to committee of United's unseeured tnrns onto silicon wafers. tract Tuesday, 11 days after a judge save costs for the seeond time in its creditors, suecessfully opposed that 
DuPont Photomasks spokesman Tom Blake dismissed the previous deal as 25-month bankruptcy. The Elk deal. Bankruptey Judge Eugene said tho photomasks mad1~ at Kokomo are unfair to other unions. Grove Village, 111.-based airline WedoiT ruled in their favor on Jan. becoming increasingly obsolete. Major cus­The pilots' union leadership says it needs to cut wages and ben­7, saying it unfairly forced tho tomnrs such as Texas Instruments lne. are endorsed the agreement and sent it efits by $725 million annually -on other unions to join the pilots in shifting to tlw smaller photomask standard of to the approximately 6,400 United top of the $2.5 billion in annual letting United end their pension 
I:w nanometers or lnss. pilots for ratification. Balloting is to reduetions made in 2003 -and plans. 
DuPont Photomasks, which is based in begin Thursday and go until .Jan. eliminate defined-benefit pensions. United said Tuesday that tho new Hound Hock, will be lnf't with eight factories 31. The previous contract would have pact will provide the permanent locatl'd rwar customers' sernieonduetor fabri­Neither the company nor union provided United with $180 million labor cost savings it nends to com­cation and chip-dnsign centers. would release details, but United in annual savings and paved the plete its restructuring. 
Fivn of' the plants will focus on manufactur­said the savings were similar to way for it to terminate the tradi­"We believe that this agreement ing tlw lnading-edge photomasks. and three those outlined in the previous deal, tional pensions. Pilots agreed not to addresses fully the concerns raised will concentratn on making the older prod­in which pilots had agreed to a 15 fight the pension move in exchange by the U.S. Bankruptcy Court," ucts, Blak1~ said. pereent pay cut. The pilots planned for additional financial eonsidera-spokeswoman Jean Medina said. 



..--------------­
Tl·iE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 8 Thursday, January 20, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Hettler  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulrer CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 ohsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 ohsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vicwpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 ·spons.l@nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 sccne.1@nd.cdu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is.reporred as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Man,~ging Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department etlitors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include <;onract information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in Chief Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ohscrvt<r {USPS ~99 l-4000) is published Monday through Frktly dCC¢pt during c.titm and vac;~:tion pcrit:~ds, A ~ubS(:ripck)tl tQ The Obscrvc:r is $100 for one: acadtmic yoe.u; $S'l fur one sem~er. 
The Observer ~ publi~hed at: POSTMASTER 02-1. Smnh Dining H.dl Send addresl1 conoc(l.om w: 
Notre Dame:-, IN 46556--0779 ThcOb~rver 
Pedodkal postagt: p.1id at Notre Dame! r.o. !lox 779 .md additional mailing oflke~. 024 South Diniug H.1ll 
No(tt Dame. IN 465'56~779 
The 0\11>~vcr i~ a nu:mber ofthe A:,.,odatcd Pre.o;:.. All rcproductiun right~ are r~rvcd. 

Death penalty is never right 
If the trial judge approves the jury's recommendation, Scott Peterson will die for the murder of his wife, Laci, and their unborn son, Conner. But don't expect Peterson to check out too soon. The 641 inmates on Charles Rice California's death row wait an average Right or of 16 years to die. Wrong?Some die of old age rather than lethal injection. 
If the Catholic Church had its way, none of them would ever be executed. Question: Why is the Church so protec­tive of murderers, even of one like Peterson? 
The "primary aim" of punishment is "redressing the disorder introduced by the offense." Catechism, no. 2266. This is retribution, restoring the balance of justice. Other purposes are rehabilita­tion of the offender and deterrence of the offender and of others. 
Pope John Paul II, in Evangelium Vitae (EV) and the Catechism, affirmed the traditional teaching that the state has authority to impose the death penalty and that retribution remains the "primary aim" of punishment. But he has developed the teaching on the use of that penalty, so that neither ret­ribution nor any other purpose will justify the use of the death penalty unless it "is the only possible way of ... defending human lives against the unjust aggressor." In other words, if it is the only possible way of keeping Scott Peterson from killing more peo­ple. "fN]on-lethal means," continued John Paul, "are more in keeping with ... the common good and ... the dignity of the human person. Today, ... as a consequence of the possibilities which the state has for ... rendering one who has committed an offense incapable of doing harm-without definitively tak­ing away from him the possibility of redeeming himself-the cases in which ... execution ... is an absolute necessity 'are very rare, if not practi­cally non-existent."' Catechism, no. 2267, quoting EV, no. 56. 

This severe restriction arises from the importance of the conversion of the criminal. St. Augustine and St. Thomas agree "for a just man to be made from a sinner is greater than to create heaven and earth." S.T., I, II, Q. 113, art. 9. 
Whether execution is such an "absolute necessity" depends on the ability of the prison system to confine this prisoner securely. That involves a prudential judgment. But .John Paul's development of the teaching on the use of the death penalty is a universal, and not a prudential, criterion. It applies everywhere and to all states. 
Even under this teaching, one could still argue for the death penalty in some cases, for example, if a life inmate, already in maximum security, murders another inmate; or if the state is unable to confine inmates securely. 
EV and the Catechism discuss the death penalty in the context of "pre­venting crime," and the "system of penal justice." Perhaps this teaching might not apply to a military tribunal which applies the "laws of war" out­side the usual criminal process. In a just war, the state has authority to kill intentionally, subject to the restrictions of proportionality and non-combatant immunity. Or perhaps execution of a terrorist leader could be justified even under John Paul's criteria if his con­tinued imprisonment would incite fur­ther terrorist attacks. On the other hand, the martyrization of such a leader by executing him might have the same inciting effect. Or, could a terrorist be treated as a spy and right­ly executed pursuant to the laws of war? Whatever the answer to such hypothetical cases, John Paul's teach­ing fully applies to all prosecutions under ordinary criminal law, including that of Scott Peterson. 
This teaching cannot be dismissed as merely .John Paul's personal opinion ­he put it in the Catechism. At the least, it is a teaching of the authentic magis­terium or teaching authority, whether or not the Pope has proclaimed it definitively. As Vatican II declared, "loyal submission of will and intellect must be given, in a special way to the authentic teaching authority of the Roman Pontiff, even when he does not speak ex cathedra." Lumen Gentium, no. 25. The Code of Canon Law, no. 752, codifies this requirement so that such teachings, even if not proclaimed "with a definitive act" are binding in that "the Christian faithful are to take care to avoid those things which do not agree with it." 
This teaching is an aspect of John Paul's advocacy of a "culture of life." We have developed instead a "culture of death" in which the intentional infliction of death is readily accepted as a problem-solving technique, as in the death penalty, war, euthanasia and, of course, abortion. Seott Peterson may die for killing the unborn Conner. But Laci could have legally killed him to solve a problem or for no reason. John Paul instead appeals "to each and every person, in the name of God: respect, protect, love and serve life, every human life!" Even the life of a guy like Seott Peterson. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at plawecki.J@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Claire Heininger Dan Tapetillo Jen Howling Steve Coyer Mary Kate Matt Wormington 
How do you feel student 

"Leadership to me means duty, honor, country. It 
Malone Scene 
Viewpoint Kenyatta Storin government has done this year? 

means character, and it means listening from 
Sarah Vabulas Illustrator 

time to time. " Graphics Katie Knorr 
Kelly MacDonald Vote by today at 5 p.m. at 
George W. Bush 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
President 


THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Thursday, January 20, 2005 page 9 
lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
WMD are not the only reason for the war in Iraq 

Tho Univnrsity of Illinois has a pretty good basketball team this year. /\flpr Chuck Prochaska's column "No WMD? So What?," I have to guess that this is a rellndion of nxtremely low admissions standards. Prochaska dernonstratns an amazingly limited grasp of the debate over the war in Iraq. I lis lark of knowlndge and lack of coneern for opposing viewpoints is incrndibln. lie argues that weapons of mass destruction worn not the rea­son for tho war but rather lists several atroeities or Saddam Hussein's mginw as tlw real cause. In fad, if I remmnber correctly, though two years ago is becoming a bit foggy, the assertion that thorn were weapons of mass destruction was the main justifying reason for invading Iraq. If the histori­cal atrocities w11m enough, what was the use of Colin Powell testifying to tlwn~ nxist11nre bnfore the U.N.? 
By far my favorite part of Prochaska's article, though, is the part where h11 assorts that, despil(1 the fact that no weapons were found, they were l.hnrn. l>nspitn tlw nfTorts of a U.N. search tnam before the war and our illustrious U.S. army aftnrward both of whom failed to lind evidence of weapons of mass destruction, Hussein most certainly did have them. Prochaska is sure. In fact, if the liberalmndia wouldn't cover things up, plain /\nwrkans like us would know about them right now instnad of hear­ing thnse made up reports. This terrible piece of writing and argument dnsnrvns no place in an intnllignnt dnbate. 
Joseph Boyle junior Keenan Hall Jan. 19 

U-WIRE 


This is not a victory 
President Franklin Delano Hoosevelt celebrated his inauguration in 1945 with cold chicken salad and pound eake. Today, President George W. Bush will cel­ebrate his inauguration with three days of concerts, balls and candlelight dinners. The total cost of the event is expected to surpass $40 million. Yet while the first family and their generous corporate ami­gos plan to square dance at tonight's "Black Ties and Boots" hoedown, we can't help but ask ourselves, exactly what are we celebrating'! 
This is not a victory for American for­eign policy, especially after the president very quietly admitted to the end of our failed attempt at finding any weapons of mass destruction. This is not a victory for the Iraqi people, who, now free from Saddam's oppression, face the tyranny of wondering whether they'll survive the day. This is certainly not a victory for tho over 100,000 Iraqi civilians who now lay dead as a result of Bush's war. 
This inauguration is not a victory for the over 150,000 undersupplied American troops in Iraq who are forced to use scrap metal to insure their llumvees are prop­erly armored due to poor planning. 
This is not a victory for those who believe in the Hepublican values of nonin­tervention, limited government or liscal responsibility. 
Nor is it a victory for Catholics, who face the very un-Christian polides of mas­sive tax cuts for the rich and wars of aggression while abortion remains legal, without muc:h complaint from the presi­dent. 
Perhaps most depressing. this is not a victory for any future generations who will undoubtedly grew up in a world of increased hostility towards /\merieans. Indeed, with reeent leaks of administra­tion plans to bomb Iran before the end of this summer, it is hard to imagine that. the next few years will be any bolter than thn previous four. 
No one should celebrate this day. Instead, we should pray for a better tomorrow. Unfortunately, we have beconw very good at that over the past four years. 
Stephanie Gharakhanian Mike Peterson Co-Presidents of the Notre Dame Peace Coaltion Jan. 19 

Hats off to hats 
/\s a child this was always one of my favorite times of ynar. Although it was bittnrly eold at limns, tho wintnrs in Chicago proved to be an exciting limo wlwn naeh morning held the possibility of waking up to a snow day. 
For several years I havn fondly Molly Acker referred to this limn of ynar as "hat S(Htson" dnspitn the faet that I mysnlf nnvnr W(Htr hats. I always Nobody Likes a know it has arriwd when I snn mid-/Jumb Blonde dln-agnd mnn donning Irish walking caps or litlln boys wnaring their navy-blue Chicago Bnars hats with tho orange ball on the end, before going outsidn to play. 
During wintnr brnak the book "Hatless Jack" by Chicago Tribunn columnist Neil Steinberg caught my attnntion. I learnnd that traditionally, hats wore niJl only usnd to knnp warm in frigid wnathor, but also to mark one's stylo. In addition to winter, there were snvnral otlwr "hat snasons" throughout the course of tho ynar. Sept. 15 was dosignatod as our national llat Day. 
llistorically, to wear a summor straw hat after this day was a gravn fashion faux pas; much like wearing white after Labor Day is today. Stoinbnrg providns ;u:counts of hat-wearers having their haberdashery stolnn or ovnn being bnatnn up for sporting straw hats after llat Day. lin also discusses tho shame of losing your hat or having to chase after if it blew away in a ('.hapter aptly tilled "Never run after your own hat." 
The book attributes the demise of hat-wearing in this country to thn late President John F. Kennedy. Much to the chagrin of the "hatters". the young presi­dent often rnfused to wnar hats despite their eonstant attempts to outlit him in one. Kennedy was pho­

why a hatless America started 
tographed bare-headed from the very beginning of 
his political career. 

On the rare occasion that he did wear a hat, it often made front page news. /\t one point Kennedy was photographed on the family yacht in casual sportswear with the sun ref1ecting on his cop­per tresses, and this was soon deemed as the "new American look." 
To many the decline of hat wearing was a pressing social issue in the '60s. Although the decline of hat-wearing helped to eliminate the possibility of being beaten up for wearing the wrong had during the wrong season, it also decimated tho hat-making industry, which had been rather lucrative up to this point. 
Moreover, it raised questions as to how a gentleman should conduct him­self in a hatless world. llow could he look respectable in public without wearing a hat'? llow could he propnrly greet someone without the tip of a hat? llow could a man show interest in or acknowledge a woman without a hat to take ofl'? 
Clearly, the country needed only to look to its President for guidance in this time of crisis. /\s we now know, President Kennedy had few problems "acknowledging" women. 

The American people took note of their hat­less president and gradually began to follow his example. If this man could be elected the leader of the free world, while at the same time disregarding tho soeial guidelines surrounding proper hat-wearing, then maybe there really wasn't any need for /\mer­
ieans to end up chasing their fedoras down the stre(1l on a windy day. Today both men and womnn still wnar hats, but usually for morn functional purposes. Other than supporting your favorite sports team or college and whether it be worn sideways. backwards or forward, hats today nxpress vnry little about their wnarer. Hats no longer carry tho sanw signili­cance they did only a few decades ago, when one's hat was ultimatnly an exten­
sion of oneself. llats not only epito­mized one's own sense of personal styln, but also providnd our nation with 
certain soeial norms to bn followed. 
I think a certain part of our nation's charm died with Kennedy's rnfusal to wear hats and the subseqlwnt demise of hat-wnaring. Nevnr will we son young men approach young women with the tip of a hat, and never will we have to check a hat at a niee restau­
rant. .I ust watch today's Inauguration 
-chances are that President Gnorge 
W. Bush will not wear a top hat, which had for many ymtrs been an Inaugural tradition. This serves as ynt another 
reminder that hats no longer rnst atop America's fashion sense. 
Molly Acker is a junior communications and humanistic sltldies douf1le major at Saint Mary's. 1/er column appears eoery other Thursday. She can be contacted at acke6785@saintmarys.edu. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Ohseroer. 

In high school, I used to jokingly say I'd bn a professional college student when I was older. Now that I'm a col­le!{n snnior frantically tallying my cred­its, I'm rnalizing that what started as a joke (in tended to freak 
Jamie

out my parents about 

Murnane

financns) is hneorning 
morn of a reality. (,"olumbia 
While I plan to grad­College uate in the spring­The Columbia within an infrequent Chronicle Columbia rncord of nxaetly four years-I just don't think that'll bn enough for mn. Sure, I'd lovn 

School's out for ... never 
to llnish school and jump right into my high-paying dream magazine job, but I just don't see that happening. As much as I'd like to go from seraping up change to ride the el to traveling all over the world to interviewing high-pro­
lile people, I have to bn realistie. So, I'll just kenp going to school. 
But, until I land my dream job from writing this column, I can be found, well, trying to land a dream job while writing this column. I've decided to go to grad school. Well not go to grad school. It's more like stay to grad school, as I'm planning on attending right here. That is, if I pass Senior Seminar this semester and the grad school admissions office accepts my application. 

I can't take any more "final projects" based on my "reflections on the world in which I live" and things I'm passionate about while somehow incorporating my major. 
For example, I'm now choreographing my interpretive dance piece on the quantitative study of dreams using only movements to create letters spelling out a story I wrote about where I see myself in journalism in 12.3 years, and how Columbia has helped me achieve my goals of bettering the world with "media arts" -for my math dass. I'll get extra credit if I use visual aides-likn photos or maybe gum sculptures. Actually, the more I think of staying for grad school, the crazier I think I am. 
This column originally appeared in the Jan. 19 issue of the The Columbia Chronicle. the daily publication at Columbia College. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 



CENE

page 10 Thursday, January 20, 2005 
ALBUM REVIEWS 

Nas shows he's still got it 
By KENYATTA STORIN Assistant Scene Editor 
At this point in his career, rap veteran Nas will probably never be able to eclipse his arch-rival Jay-Z in both fame and suc­cess, but his new double album, "Street Disciple," shows he still has something left in the tank. 
In 1994, Nas came out with his stunning rap debut, "Illmatic" -an instant classic that immediately catapulted him to the top of the rap game. But in the years since, Nas' stock has wavered greatly, for while he has shown l1ashes of brilliance over the years and is undoubtedly a very talented rapper, he has never been able to duplicate the power and skill of his debut. As a result, in many people's eyes he has always been somewhat of a disappoint­ment in hip-hop, much like what Derrick Coleman is to the NBA. The recently released Detroit Piston was the first over­all pick in the draft by the New Jersey Nets in 1990, and although he turned out to be a very good player, he never became the huge star everyone thought he would be. 
Although Nas still does not have the esteemed status he once had, he has man­aged to revitalize his career over the past three years due to increased media atten­tion from his feud with Jay-Z and in1proved material on his last two albums, "Stillmatic" and "God's Son." While both albums were far from perfect, they had their share of highlights, proving Nas could still flow with the best of them. "Street Disciple" continues this positive streak of albums, and while it is not on par with "Jllmatic" by any means, it is a solid release. 
Not surprisingly, like all hip-hop double­disc albums, "Street Disciple" has too much filler and lags at times, but overall the good outweighs the bad. For the most part, Nas avoids making concessions to the pop market by generally avoiding catchy pop hooks, allowing Nas to put himself to the forefront and showcase his rapping talents. Salaam Remi, Chucky Thompson and L.E.S. handle the produc­tion (with the exception of a few beats done by Nas himselD, and the results, while not stunning, are diverse and refreshing. 




Lyrically, Nas keeps things fresh by going all across the board, rapping about politics, sexual exploits, racism, his child­hood, past musical influences and mar­riage, among other things. He takes shots at several people throughout the album, like Condoleeza Rice on "American Way," where he raps, "Tell fHice] if she ever really cared about poor schools I About poor children, then she gotta prove I that she ain't just another coon Uncle Tom fool." In contrast to this, he is less serious on other songs, like the catchy party jam, "Virgo," (featuring Ludacris and Doug E. Fresh) with the chorus, "Hey girl, just come and hold my hand I Won't you come and just chill with the Virgo." Nas also shows he still has plenty of bite in his rhymes too, as shown by his attacks on "Suicide Bounce:" It's obvious you don't know how I react I Like, l don't know where the party's at I You're foamin' at the mouth, losin' breath I Like a cardiac arrest, but I ain't impressed." 
Nas may never be able to match the potential he once showed 10 years ago, but he is still an excellent rapper that like­ly still has a few more albums left in him. "Street Disciple" would be a stronger album if it was cut down to one disc. but it is still an impressive release in and of itself. Nas may not rule the New York rap scene anymore, but he is still about as solid a rapper as they come these days. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 

Nouvelle Vague an exquisite mixture of genres, eras 
By MATTHEW SOLARKSI Scene Music Critic 
Some concepts are born in heaven. Indeed, whoever had tile brilliant idea of marrying the French chanteuse with the iconic songs ol' punk, new wave and goth must have a pair of feathery wings tucked beneatll hi'l or hPr tweed eoat. Enter Nouvelle Vague, which has done just that. French for "new wave" <md most popularly associated witll tlle semi­nal filmmaking of Jean-Luc Godard, Francois Tru1:1'aut and others in tile early 1960s, tlle Nouvelle Vague in question here consL'lts of modern-day producers Marc Collin and Olivier Libaux. 
These two Frenchmen, having selected a batch of songs by several of the defining artists of punk, new wave and gotll (hence­fortll collectively referred to as simply "new wave"), set about recruiting France's finest voices to sing tllem. Collin and Libaux, botll gifted multi-instrumentalists, crafted their oWTI largely-acoustic arrangements of the new wave classics, taking cues from jazz, lounge music and another "new wave" ­bossa nova. Then the vocalists step in, and the rest plays out like a dream. Nouvelle Vague does, however, seek to transcend mere kitsch by having the songs sung in tlleir original English. 
New wave's household names are present and accounted for: The Cure, Joy DivL<>ion, The Clash and Depeche Mode all experience rebirth in shimmery lounge-pop renditions. Other acts Nouvelle Vague tackles include XTC, Tuxedomoon, The Undertones, P.I.L. and The Specials. The record's crowning moment, however, would have to be its cen­terpiece, a cover of a song by the Dead Kennedys. Here, singer Camille attempts to fill the sloppy shoes ol' Jello Biafra, several times nearly erupting into a fit of giggles. By tlle end Camille is uttering exclamations in her native French, and tile whole track car­ries tl1is same endearing spontaneity. 
Canlille is in fact tile belle of tlris ball, drap-


ing her warm, evocative vocals over four of 
the album's 13 tracks, including a cover of 
the Clash's "Guns of Brixton" tllat in many 
ways rivals tile original. Also exceptional is 
Marina Celeste's try at "A Forest," originally 
performed by The Cure. 
One quirk in particular allows Nouvelle 
Vague to work its wonder: Collin and Libaux, 
when enlisting tlleir femme fatales, took spe­
cial care to match singers <md songs on tile 
basis of unfamiliarity. What results are 
unique and often-striking interpretations of 
classic songs, vaguely recognizable and yet 
imbued witll a new freshness. On the cover 
of Modern English's "I Melt Willi You," singer 
Silja transforms the famous bridge "the 
future is open wide" into a sort of sultry 
come-on, slowing tile words and slurring her 
speech coquettishly. The chanteuse Canlille, 
once again, adds a new dinlension of melan­
choly to "Making Plans For Nigel" by XTC · witll her dynamic vocals. 

Collin and Libaux underscore several of the songs with ambient recordings, lending these tracks a satisfying sense of atmos­phere. Witll Joy Division's "Love Will Tear Us Apart," they incorporate tile purr of waves and the quiet cackle of children playing to compliment the song's balmy, carefree arrangement. The cover of Killing Joke's "Psyche," featuring tlle vocals of Sir Alice, is embellished by tile eerie din of insects and oilier creatures of tile night. 
A literal wave is of course never actually new; it instead brings tile same waters tllat have splashed the shoreline time and time before. In much the same way, Nouvelle Vague has culled tile existing musical waters for tile very best bits and carried tllem deftly to a white-sanded shore to caress the air­waves. 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Thursday, January 20, 2005 
page II 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
Nelson proves he"Always Will Be" 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
AssiSiant Scene Editor 
Willi<~ Nnlson is a country music legend, and appan~ntly lw "always will bn." Ndson's IH'Wf~st album "It Always Will Bn" is ynt anotlwr solid n~lease. Nnit.hnr revo­lutionary nor oiTnnsivf~, "It Always Will BP" is an Pnjoyable album from a music lngnnd using tlw sanw formula for sueenss lw always had. Whill' thorn is not r·nally a trark that stands far abovn llw other songs, all llw songs are good country songs sung by a man who has had quite a bit to do with t.hn dnvnlopmnnt of Anwrir.an 1~mmtry music. as a genn~. 
Nelson is not the young performer he onen was and mud1 of his album is per­forrnml in a voien that lands sonwwhere between singing and talking the lyrics. llowcwnr, if anyone can make this work, it is Willie Nelson, and thus this quality of his voice just ends up adding to the lex­turn of' most of the songs on the album. 
Nelson, who is notorious lilr doing duets with almost anybody and everybody ­ineluding even Kid Hoek and Brian McKnight on one of his more recent albums, "The Great Divide" -makes bet­ter partner choices on "It Will Always Be." The thrnn duets on "It Always Will Bn" are some of the bnst songs on the album and showcase Willie with Norah Jorws, Paula Nelson and Lucinda Williams. The strongnst duet is "Dreams Corne True" with Norah Jones. The bluesy, jazzy mixed with the unique voices of .Jones and Nelson produces a mnmorably beautiful song. 
In general, thn slower the song is on "It Always Will Be," the better it is. The faster songs an~ gcmerally a bit cheesier, such as. "Big Booty" in which Nelson sings of' an apparently larger woman, "She said, 'I ain't gonna fix you no more sausage I Biscuits and gravy on the side I You done said the wrong thing to me, baby I And you can kiss big booty goodbye."' Not the finest moment for country music lyrics. However, the lyrics are, to an extent, a part of the genre. Therefore in a slower song called "Tired" Nelson's borderline cheesy lyrics are liJrgivable and when per­formed right can be taken a bit more seri­ously in their message. "Tirnd" is about a man who has tried to live the good life hut has also seen hardship and sings, "But I'm tired, Lord, I'm tired I Lifo is woarin' me smooth down to the bone I No rest for the weary, you just move on I And I'm tired." 


Nelson's lyrics mdeem themsnlves in the title track which is also one of the best songs on "It Always Will Be." In a slow twanged voice made liw singing folk musk NPison sings, "Sometimes I think that love is I sonwwhcre living on an island all alone I I can see it in the darkness I I 1~an fen! it in the distance, and then it's gone." On a song that is musically one of' the best songs on the album Nelson's lyrics arP a bit morn poignant than ehnesy. 

With a majority of' good songs, "It Always Will Be" is an enjoyablo album that sounds like any other Willie Nelson 
-
album out thorn. Willio Nelson is a lngnnd, and while "It Always Will Bo" may not bo legendary, it enrtainly is worth listening too, espneially li1r any Nnlson fan. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
Stephin Merritt and his beautiful music 
Associated Press 
Stnphin Morritt usually has a song cycling through his !wad. 
Makos sense, given that. ho's one of tho morn captivating and nclnctic singnr-songwritnrs around, !wading such hands as Tlw Magnetic Finlds and The Mhs and creating music f'or rnovins. Chinese opera adaptations and tlw Lnmony Snirkot audio books. 
But Mnrritl's inner soundtrack does­n't always livn up to his crnative out­put. During an intnrview with The Associated Pross, for example, it was l'ol.t~r. l'aul and Mary's "Lmnon Troe." 
"So, you could son why I'd want to have othor rnusie playing whilo I write," M1m·itt of'f'ort~d. explaining his crnativo process with a sad little smile. "I certainly don't want to write a song like 'Lemon Tree' and then have to sing it. What if it's really good and I have to sing it for decades? What if it's a hit, and I have to sing it 1wory day for· dncades'!" 
Such arn the porils of popular music. Othc~rs inelude too much time in air­ports and unsolicited dnmos from "pathntic hut cute" tnenagers. Having just toured Europe and North America following the spring release of the Fields' latnst album, "i," Merritt has had to eonl'ront plenty of both. 
Tlw album marks the band's first on Norwsuch, home to such pop luminar­ins as .loni Mitchell, Brian Wilson and Wilco. Al'tnr morn than a decade with Mnrgn HIH~onls, the quartet (with Sam I>avol, Claudia Gonson and .John Woo on a variety of hand-played string instrurnonts) has signed a two-album dmd with Warner Bros. Heeords. 
"I think of Stephin as one of the grnat songwriters of his era," said 
David Bither, senior vice president at· Nonesuch. "They have that singular voien we're always looking for. It was an easy marriage." 
The synthosizer-free "i" is the follow up to 1999's "69 Lovo Songs," a throe­disc set that greatly expanded the band's non-mainstream fan base and earrwd near-universal adoration from critics for its variety-style blend of genres and for Merritt's ingenious lyries. 
A sampln from "I Don't Want to Get Ovnr You," on thn l'irst album: "I could drnss in black and rnad Camus I smoke elovn cigarettes and drink ver­mouth I likn I was 17 I that would be a sen~am I but I don't want to get over you." 
Merritt enjoys concepts ·and paro­dies, and "i" combines both. All 14 songs begin with the letter "i," a silly concept that gave Merritt writing parameters and allowed him to poke fun at the ludicrous task he set him­self in writing (,9 songs about love 
The reviews were favorable, but did not match the reception given "69 Love Songs." 
"I was aware that every review was going to begin, 'It's no "69 Love Songs," but..."' Merritt said. "I was expecting a bigger backlash-I didn't realize that the backlash was going to be against me, rather than the music." 

Musing on music 
The Fields' new album, "i," features 14 songs that all begin with that letter. 
Merritt has not had an easy time of it in the press, with adjectives running the gamut from "intimidating" to "rude." Some of this Merritt blames on writers not wanting to be seen as gushing. If they attack him, he rea­sons, they're free to wax rhapsodic about his musie. 

But he also cites some singularly incompetent interviewers, such as a woman whose nervous tie caused her to trail otT midway through her sen­tenens, leaving Merritt guessing at tho questions. 
"She would trail oJT literally at the ends of sentences in which she was trying to explain that she wanted not to trail orr at the ends of sentences," Merritt remembnred. "She was very nervous, which is complntely forgiv­able. It's just difficult to eome off as a kind, unintimidating, generous, intelli­gent interviewee under those circum­stances." 
On this day, battling a pernicious cold picked up on tour, Merritt was subdued but engaged. Swathed in baseball eap, pu!Ty jacket and lumpy brown scarf, he mused on topies rang­ing from trying not to appear original in popular musie to how many times one could hang out in a hotel lobby before being thrown out. 
A slight man with dark, intense eyes, a winsome smile and wickedly low-key sense or humor, Merritt is not so much ungenerous as transparently weary of having to deal with the same silly questions ad nauseam (ask "Why '69 Love Songs'?" if you really want to ruin his day). 
"Stephin is not socially gregarious," bandmate Gonson said. "llis voice is very low and his hearing is spotty and he doesn't suffer fools gladly. But he's an absolutely lovely person." 
That's true when it comes to apolo­gizing to the tape recorder after a particularly loud cough or fondly remembering Fred Flintstone vitamins -but ask Merritt if he considers him­self a romantic, and you're in for it. 
"What do you people mean when you ask me that?" eame thn exasperated responsn after a longer-than-usual pause. "I don't know. It's not part of my world view." 

The challenge of popular music 
OK, but. it's nverywhnre in his songs, for whieh Merritt writes all the parts. lin favors singers and musicians with "conversational" approaehns -no pyrotechnics to obscure his sophisti­cated blend of wit and emotion, as Merritt manipulates pop musie 
·­
troupos and cliclws to delicious eiTect. 
In "I Wish I llad an Evil Twin," he sots P,layfully nasty lyries, drlivnrmt In his deadpan voice, against a yearning mnlody: "My nvil twin would lin and steal I And he would stink or snx appeal I All men would writhn I Beneath his seythe." 
"In theater it's a eliehn that tho sne­
-
ond song of every rnusieal is an 'I Wish' song," Mer-ritt nxplainod. "I probably wrote with that in mind, because I was thinking of doing a musical about dopplegangers, an ~daptatior!.. of 'Invasion of the Body Snatchers. 
At another point in tho conversation, while discussing "Lemon Trnn," hn pointed to thn "war l'ilm eliehe of a quint, irn~lnvant song playing during a scene of violeneo." 
Merritt embraens such o!T-the-wall eliches. 
"Part of the advantage of bning hideously, cripplingly self-eonseious is that I feel fron to use cliches, ratlwr than feeling compelled to seek out original expression," lw explained. "The quandary in popular music is more about how to sound enough like other people that it is popular music ... while still making something identi­fiably new." 
page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 20, 2005 
NBA 

Celtics, Pierce snap Bulls win streak with 92-83 victory 
James leads Cavaliers over Trail Blazers 107-101, becomes youngest NBA player in history to record a triple-double 
Associated Press there's no doubt about that. He deserves to be on the floor." 
ROSTON -AI Jefferson, scared to find himself on the Cavs 107, Trail Blazers 101 l1oor in crunch time, kept his LeBron James had 27 points, wits long enough to guide 11 rebounds and 10 assists to Boston to a victory. become the youngest player in 
Paul Pierce had 28 points and NBA history to record a triple­11 rebounds, while Jefferson double, and the Cleveland added a career-high 17 points Cavaliers beat the Trail Blazers -including a pair of key bas­to send Portland to its fifth kets down the stretch -to lead straight loss. the Boston Celties past the James is 20 years and 20 days Bulls, snapping Chicago's old, younger than Lamar Odom, seven-game winning streak. who was 20 years and 54 days 
Jefferson led the charge as old when he became the the Celties rallied from a 66-57 youngest to do it on Dee. 30, deficit with a 12-2 run midway 1999 while with the Los Angeles through the fourth quarter. Clippers. That was James' 15th 
Jefferson gave Boston its first birthday. lead since early in the third James' pass to Zydrunas quarter and put the Celtics Ilgauskas with 1:19 left gave ahead to stay with a pair of free him 10 assists and completed throws with 7:56 left, then the triple-double. His team­capped Boston's decisive run mates congratulated him during with a pair of baskets, including a timeout a short time later, and a floater as the shot clock his mother cheered him from expired, that put the Celties up the stands. 84-77 with 5:05 left. "It feels great. But it's not 
''I'm not used to being out about the statistics, it's the there that late in the game," wins," said James, who also said Jefferson. "I was (seared), I had four steals. really was. That's where I want Ilgauskas had 21 points and to be, but it's still a little fright­11 rebounds, and the Cavaliers ening. But I didn't show it." led by as many as 19 points. 
down before he attempted what ter. around before Ginobili grabbedThe win was Boston's 10th in Cleveland is now 2-2 in the could have been the game-seal­Kenny Thomas Jinished with the rebound as time expired. 
its last 12 home games as the midst of a six-game road trip, ing basket. 21 points, Korver had 18, and Ginobili, who missed
Celties kept pace with with the Sacramento Kings 
Only his shot didn't come J aekson scored 14 of his 16 in Monday's win over WashingtonPhiladelphia atop the Atlantic coming up Thursday night. 
close to the rim, a 24-seeond the third quarter. with a thigh bruise, scored 13Division despite an 18-20 Portland's Nick Van Exel had violation was called, and Emeka Okafor led Charlotte points. Duncan had 12 pointsrecord. 
28 points, while Damon 

Philadelphia had to sweat out with 18 points, 19 rebounds and 14 rebounds fur San"That was a very good win for Stoudamire had 27. its victory over the Charlotte and three blocked shots, but he Antonio, which improved theus," said Boston coach Doc 
When the Blazers came with­Bobcats. went just 4-of-12 at the line and NBA's best home record to 21-1.
Rivers. "You look at Chicago in 95-87 late in the game, "I didn't get that call, I didn't missed two free throws in the Heat 111, Hawks 92
and they've been playing so 
James hit a 3-pointer to slow get the free throw," Iverson said final 2:33 with a chance to tie it MIAMI -Shaquille O'Neal and
well, and we came out and 
Portland's momentum. of his Jinctl attempt. "Everybody both times. Dwyane Wade each scored 25defended them tonight." 
Portland was finally home on my team was screaming it "I was just off," Okafor said. points, helping the Miami HeatThe Bulls pulled within 84-80 
after a grueling six-game, 10-was a foul." "I tried not to think about it improve the Easternbefore Pierce hit a field goal 
day road trip, during which every time I went to the line Conference's best record to 29­
The Bobcats can relate.

and knocked down four free 
they managed just one win. But because if I'm going to do that, I 11 with a win over the Atlanta
After Iverson's miss, the

throws for a 90-80 lead with 
even the comforts of home might as well kick the ball llawks.
Bobcats had a chance to go for

1:10 left. 
couldn't boost their depleted instead of shoot it. But I was Wade, who missed Miami's
the tie or the win. Jason Hart
Eddy Curry scored 26 points, 

bad at the line." previous two games with a backlineup. got the call, driving the ballKirk llinrich added 12 points 
Forward Zaeh Randolph Spurs 80, Clippers 79 spasms, sore ribs and a
toward the basket as time was

and Tyson Chandler scored 
missed his fourth game with a SAN ANTONIO -Tony Parker migraine, scored 12 of his
expiring. His shot also missed.

eight points and grabbed 14 
sore right knee. Already short And just like Iverson, he scored 25 points, including a points in the third quarter to 
rebounds for the Bulls, who 
game-winning driving layup in help the Heat pull away. O'NealDarius Miles (left knee contu­thought he was fouled.
held their opponent below 100 
the final seconds, to lead San added 12 rebounds, and Eddiesion) and Shareef Abdur-Rahim "I wanted to make the refspoints for the 23rd consecutive Antonio to a win over the Los Jones scored 16 for Miami,(right elbow surgery), the call something," Hart said. "So I game. 
Angeles Clippers. which played its first home "We couldn't make our shots Blazers started Ruben went into the hole and got eon­The Clippers took a 79-78 game in two weeks. 
Patterson and Theo Ratliff at tact. But there was no call."

tonight," said Chicago coach 
lead with 19 seconds remaining Antoine Walker had his ninthforward.
Scott Skiles. "We didn't play Instead, the game ended with on a pair of free throws by straight double-double, 18 
poorly. We just had trouble put­Ratliff, usually a center, made the ball in Iverson's hands. The Bobby Simmons. On the next points and a game-high 16his first-ever start at forward NBA's leading scorer with 28.5
ting the ball in the hole. possession, the Spurs' Manu rebounds, for Atlanta, which
Tuesday night in the Blazers' points a game, Iverson scored

-· 
Jefferson, the talented power 
Ginobili curled around the lane dropped its seventh straight113-107 overtime loss in 24 points to lead the 76ers but
forward who jumped straight and passed to Parker in the left road game and lost for the 14th
Sacramento. Although fighting was held to just six points in the 

from high school to the NBA, corner. time in 17 games overall. Jason 
a stomach virus, he started second half. 

has been playing more and He faked a shot to get Collier added 17 points. 
Wednesday's game but left a

more lately and is inching clos­''I'd rather play bad and we Simmons off his feet and then Miami, the NBA's best shoot­
short time later after getting

er to a spot in the starting line­win the game then play great drove baseline, bumping bodies ing team, connected on 51.9 
two quick fouls and did not and we lose," he said. 

up, especially given the increas­with 7-footer Chris Kaman as percent of its field-goal ingly ineffective play of center return. But his poor second half left it he banked in a layup high off attempts. O'Neal made 11 of 20 
The Blazers led 32-26 mid­

Mark Blount. Blount had one of up to Kyle Korver, Corliss the backboard with 7.8 seconds shots and scored 25 or more 
-way through the first half, but
his worst games as a pro, going Williamson and Marc Jaekson left. points for the eighth straight
the Cavaliers took off on a 23-6 to carry the Sixers. 

scoreless and failing to grab a The Clippers' final inbounds game, extending his team 
run to go up 51-38 on Sasha

rebound in 22 minutes. Korver made consecutive bas­play went to Elton Brand, who record. Over that stretch,
Pavlovic's layup. 

"I don't know about the start­kets, including a 3-pointer, to backed Tim Duncan in a couple O'Neal is averaging 29.8 points ing lineup. That'll come," said Sixers 107, Bobcats 105 give Philadelphia a 103-98 lead, of steps before his turnaround and 12.3 rebounds. Rivers of Jefferson. "He'll earn Allen Iverson slowly dribbled and Williamson scored eight of jumper went off the right side of AI Harrington's driving layup that. But he's earning minutes, the ball, letting the clock run his 14 points in the fourth quar-the rim. The ball bounced with 5:38 left in the third quar-

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p:m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for conrent without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

New 4-bdrm,3-bath home.Avail  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5  How many popes apply?  
8/05. Cathedral ceiling, fireplace,  Days $299! Includes Meals,  
FoR SALE  FOR RENT  deluxe kitchen, skylights, 2-car  PERSONAL  Celebrity Parties! Panama City,  Walsh girls are amazing  
garage, family room, 1Ox20 deck.  Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica,  
2-6 bedroom homes for 05-06  Safe area. Call574-232-4527 or  Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award  Have a great half birthday Mel  
Walking distance from ND.  269-683-5038.  Spring Break 2005 with STS,  Winning Company!  
One bedroom condo near UND.  MMMRentals.com 532-1408  America s #1 Student Tour  SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678­ Did anyone else enjoy American  
Appliances  HOUSES FOR RENT:3-5 BED­ Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call  6386  day at the dining hall?  
1 bdrm apt 1/2 mile to ND. $550/  ROOM HOMES.GOOD CONDI­ for group discounts.  
 
 
......  $72,000 280-8160  mo. Laundry incl.  TION.CLOSE TO CAMPUS.Call  Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849  BOSOX FANS check out newyork- Fortnight Thursday crew, lets keep  
Kim Kollar  Call 283-0325  Sean 532-1895.  www.ststravel.com  chokees.net  getting educated. Thanks Colleen  

Thursday, January 20 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
PGA 
Mickelson makes 2005-06 debut at the Buick Invite 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO -Vijay Singh is fresh oil' a victory in llawaii, and still ono of tho last guys to lmtvo thn rangn. Tiger Woods had a dose call at Kapalua. and Ernio 1\ls is kkking himself' for two chances that got away. 
As for Phil Miekelson'? 
"A little rusty, as usual," Mickelson said Wednesday. 
lie is th(~ only PGA Tour player among tho top 15 in the world who has not played this year, waiting until the Buick 
Invitational in his hometown to make his 2005 debut. Miekelson has a tough act to follow in many respects. 
For one thing, his last eompoti­tive round was a 59 in the PGA Grand Slam of Golf in Hawaii. 
"That's going to be tough to do 
Open House for 2005-06 School Year at the Early Childhood Development Center at Saint Mary's College 
Come and see our program and meet the ECDC-SMC teachers: 
Sun., Jan. 23, 2005 ....... 2:00-4:00p.m. 
Sun., Feb. 20, 2005 ....... 2:00-4:00p.m. 
Sun., March 20, 2005 ....... 2:00-4:00 p.m. 
ECDC-SMC offers four preschool programs: 3's, 3/4's, 4's and 4/5's. Full Time and Part Time 
enrollment schedules are available. 
Did you know that ECDC-SMC has degreed early childhood teachers; is NAEYC accredited program; enrichment programs include dance, gymnastics. and Spanish; college students in training; multicultural environment; family involvement opportunities; a summer day camp for children ages 3 through 9. 
For more information, please call 284-4693 or 
kalford@saintmarys.edu 

\~ 

out here," Mickelson said with a sly grin, realizing that the South Course at Torrny Pines, whero he plays his first round of' the year on Thursday, will hold the U.S. Open in three years. 
He also is coming off a magieal year in whieh he won his first major at the Masters, was a com­bined five shots away from win­ning all four majors, and was in Sunday contention at every tour­nament through early May. 
"My expectations are certainly higher because I came so dose last year," he said. "I was in con­tention at all four, and I had a great opportunity on the 18th hole to win them." 
But there's no time to waste. Singh, Woods and Els ­known these days as "The Big 
Three" -already arc ofT to a grnat start. 
Lofty is about to join tho fray. 
"I think what makes it so exdt­ing is that wn have so many guys now that arn playing wnll, and so many guys that are challenging to win tournamonts," Mickolson said. "It makes the journoy and the challengo of' winning tourna­ments toughor, but it's morn rewarding if' you can accomplish it." 
The strongest and deepest field of' the ynar has all the trappings of' a big tournament, unusual for this early in the season. Then again, this is the earliest tho PGA Tour has eome to Torrey Pines since 1962, whnn Bob (;oalby held off a late charge by Gay Brower. 


Semester Around the World Progra. m 

J\..1onday, ..Ja:n.l...J.a:ry 24th., 6:C)C) p.I1:1. c:a.rroll Al.l.ditoril..l.r.n., Madeleva. .l·lall, St.l.i.tlt M1.1t-;y's .(Jo.R "V\l«;":~dn.t"~sda.y, ..J~.:l.t.tu.ary 26tl.1., 6:·J.S p ..t.tl. in. J~t:~slntJ"g.ll L~i­l:.rary i\:t.tdit:~,ritU11., Nr.:> 
C)pportl..u-~ity for trav-el and study u-:t rn.an.y countries of th.e Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern Europ-e and. \l\Testern Europe 
Semest:er .A.rcn..Irad t:he """orld Program (574)284-4468 or 4473,. F:a:x: (574) 284­4866 or (574) 273-5973 
F rida!J, januar!J 21st at 8 pm jo!Jce Center Fieldhouse 

• 
First 500 fans receive Notre Dame Hockey Puzzle, courtesy of Smokey Bones ~s 

• 
One lucky fan will win a kayak .ill courtesy of Big Bear Kayaks ··!!W~ .For more details about the bus trip call Notre Dame promotions: (574) 631-8393 


-





OUND THE NATION 
page 14 CoMPILED FROM THE OssERVErts WIRE SERVICES Thursday, January 20, 2005 
Men's College Basketball 
d~E
AP Top 25 
team record points 
1 lltinols(27) 18·0 771 
2 Kansas(4) 13·0 r..a 
3 Wake Forest 15·1 710 
4 Duke 13·0 676 
5 Oklahoma State 13·1 632 
6 North Carolina 14-2 616 
7 Syracuse 17-1 601 
8 Kentucky 12-2 549 
g Boston College 14·0 456 
10 Washington 15·2 452 
11 Texas 13~3 445 
12 Arizona 14-3 389 
13 Connecticut 10·3 369 
14 Louisville 14·3 339 
15 Georgia Tech 11-4 331 
16 Michigan State 10·3 287 
17 Pittsburgh 12·2 266 
18 Cincinnati 14·2 246 
19 Mississippi State 15·3 245 
20 Gonzaga 13-3 225 
21 Oklahoma 13·2 206 
22 Alabama 13·3 149 
23 Wisconsin 12·3 101 
24 Iowa 13-3 71 
25 Marquette 14-2 58 
Women's College Basketball APTop 25 
team record points 
1 Duke (45) 16,1 991 
2 LSU 15·1 967 
3 Stanford 14,2 894 
4 Ohio State 17-2 880 
5 Baylor 13·2 889 
6 North Carolina 13·2 744 
7 Rutgers 12·3 738 
8 Michigan Stale 15*2 718 
9 Tennessee 
12·3 693 
10 NOTRE DAME 14-3 649 
11 Texas Tech 13·2 
12 Connecticut 10~ 
13 Minnesota 14-.3 
14 Boston College 
15 Vandertllil 
16 Texas 
17 DePaul 
18} Maryland 19 Kansas State 20 Iowa State 21 Georgia 22 Iowa 23 Purdue 24 wFlorida State 
25. 
Richmond 
CCHA Conference··Hockeywiiiltt: Standings 
team 
Michigan Ohio State Nebraska-Omaha Northern Michigan 
-aowling Gfeen Lake Superior State Michigan Stale Alaska Fairbanks Ferris Stale

-
Miami (Ohio) 
Western Michigan 
NOTRE DAME 
CCHi4 

15·1-tl 1&!1)..1 12·3·1 '' 1s;.5-3 T;L ~t~ ''!:; ~~t~ ::\l(iiil 7-s;.2 . ' 1Q-.'7;3
~2 iii;!, 7-12~3 
t~~rit ,-_-· ' ~~t:~~1 ,nJJ,iJi, 4·Q.3 9·12•3 
4~9-3 8•12~4 
5·10·1 10-11·1 
3•11-4 5·W5 

around the dial 
MEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL Iowa at Illinois 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Houston at Orlando 8 p.m., TNT Cleveland at Sacremento 10:30 p.m., TNT 
TENNIS 2005 Australian Open 2 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL 


Associated Press The bid to jump-start NHL labor negotiations appears to have been a success. Union president Trevor Linden and NHL board of directors chairman Harley Hotchkiss spoke Wednesday at Chicago's O'Hare International Airport, and the sides are planning another meeting in an effort to save the season. The session lasted about five hours, including several breaks so each three-man negotiating group could huddle. It was just the third time the league and its players have had face­to-face talks in the four months since the lockout was imposed Sept. 15. "We engaged in good dialogue today and will continue our discus­sions in the near future," Linden 
IN BRIEF 
Wake Forest ends free­throw record in loss 
Wake Forest's NCAA free-throw record ended at a most inopportune time. 
After getting fouled while making an off-balance 3-pointer with 4 sec­onds left, Taron Downey had the Demon Deacons' first missed free throw in 51 attempts and No. 3 Wake Forest went on to lose to Florida State 91-83 in overtime Tuesday night. 
Todd Galloway scored nine straight points in overtime and finished with a career-high 21 to help Florida State snap Wake Forest's 10-game winning streak. 
"It felt good when it left my hand," said Downey, the Deacons' best free­throw shooter. "But you know, it hap­pens like that sometimes." 
Wake Forest (15-2, 4-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) made 32 straight Saturday in a 95-82 win over North Carolina and its first 18 on Tuesday night before Downey's miss. Wake said. "We will not make any further comment at this time." 

More than half of the regular sea­son-662 of 1,230 games through Wednesday -has been wiped out so far, plus the All-Star game. 
If Wednesday's meeting does repre­sent a key step forward in the negoti­ations, it might be worth noting who was not present: NHL commissioner Gary Bettman and union chief Bob Goodenow. 
Linden reached out to the owners and invited Hotchkiss to talk. The center for the Vancouver Canucks hoped that by holding talks without the two leaders, some of the acrimo­ny could be removed from the negoti­ating process. 
"We credit Trevor Linden's initia­tive in requesting this session, which was informal, open and professional 
Forest's 50 straight free throws eclipsed the mark of 49 set in 1991 by Indiana State. Roncalli running back plans to play at Indiana 
INDIANAPOLIS -Tim Sergi, who rushed for more than 2,500 yards last year but missed most of his sen­ior season of high school with a knee injury, has made an oral commitment to play football at Indiana. 
The 6-foot-3, 198-pound running back is the second Indianapolis Ronc;:tlli player to make a Division I commitment this week. Teammate Patrick Kuntz, a two-time All-State defensive lineman, also said he would enroll at Notre Dame. Another Roncalli player, defensive back Jason Werner, was Indiana's high school Mr. Football and committed earlier to Purdue. 
Sergi, who was a first-team All­Stater in 2003, tore a ligament in bis right knee in the fourth game last fall. Still, he was recruited by Miami (Ohio), and after former Miami coach and which resulted in a constructive exchange of viewpoints," Hotchkiss said. 
Linden didn't have a new proposal, and he wasn't looking for attention. Indeed, it wasn't until late Tuesday that word filtered out where the meeting would be. 
These were the first talks since Dec. 14. That was when the sides broke three months of silence by sit­ting down for the second time in six days, but any optimism was lost quickly. 
Since then, other than rhetoric, there had been silence. 
If the next round of talks don't move the sides to a settlement, the season probably would be lost. That would mean the Stanley Cup would­n't be awarded for the first time since 1919. 
Terry Hoeppner came to Indiana, Hoeppner offered Sergi a scholarship to play for the Hoosiers. Myskina advances to third round of Australia Open 
MELBOURNE, Australia -French Open champion Anastasia Myskina berated herself and looked dismayed after many of the 25 errors she had to overcome on the way to defeating Tzipora Obziler 6-4, 6-2 in the sec­ond round of the Australian Open on Thursday. 
The third-ranked Myskina strug­gled with a her serve in the first set, with Israel's Obziler breaking her twice, but didn't face a breakpoint chance in the second. 
Abigail Spears, playing only her second major, knocked out No. 20 Tatiana Golovin of France 7-5, 6-1 to advance to the third round. 
"She got in my face from the start," said Golovin, whose preparation was restricted by a virus. "I don't want to make excuses, I was feeling OK phys­ically, but it played a part." 

Thursday, January 20, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
NFL 

Roethlisberger will try to beat Patriots barehanded 
Assndatcd Press 
I'ITTSIIUH<;II linn f!oPthfislwrgPr is issuing this warning to thP Patriots: The glovPs an• roming ofT for thn AH: rhampionship ganw. 
f!oPthlisbPrgnr is llllP victory away from IH'rorning tlw first rookiP quartPrhark to takn a tl'<llll to liH• Stqwr Bowl. But sinro hP l.hrnw two inl.f'rcnp­l.ions in a playoff' virtory ov11r thn .l!•ts whiiP wnaring glovns. BoPthlisiH'rgpr's handwnar has IH•mnH' l'iU.shurgh 's No. I topir of' dPI>atP. 
To a city that grPw IH~cus­lonwd to tlw tough-guy Supnr Bowl StPnlnrs of' tl11• I 'J70s, who playPd in barn sii'Pvos no mat­tPr thP wPatlwr, it was unsnt­l.ling to watrh a quartorbtu:k in glovos. 
With snow shownrs l'orf'cast for Sunday night and tlw likPii­hood of' a wd, sloppy rinld, BoPthlislwrgPr plans to discard tlw glovf's. That should ploase thosP StPnh•rs fans who rnnHHn­lwr I fall or fiamfl quartPrback "j'Prry Bradshaw beating tnams harPhandf'd. 
''I'm going to try to go without it," said f!oPthlisbnrgm·. who worP a glovn on his left hand hut not his throwing hand in pradkf' W11dnesday. "If it's wet, it makns it worsn (to throw). W~1'll snn .~r wn can go without th1s Wllf'k. 
Maybf' ltoethlishnrger is Pxpnding, ahf'm, a barn-knuck­ln brawl against thn Patriots, 
whoso pnrplnxing defenses throttlnd NFL MVP Peyton Manning of' tho Colts during Nnw l•:ngland's 20-3 second­round victory. 
If' a quartf'rback who threw a rf'cord 49 touchdown passes this snason c:an't do anything against a Bill Bnlichick-and Homno Crnnnnl-dPsigned dnf'nnsn, how can a raw rookie nxpnet to do much hnlter'? 
Actually, Bonthlis­bnrgnr alrnady has, 
Hichard Soymour, perhaps its best. defensive playor, can't play. lin didn't practice Wednesday boeause of a sore knee and is listnd as questionable. 
That's why tho Stenlers don't noeossarily need Big Bnn to win the bigg-est game of' his life; instead, lw might just nnnd to make ho sure he konps from losing a matchup of streaking quarterbacks. Hoethlisberger is 14-0 as an NFL starter; tho 
throwing for two scores -and no intPrcnptions -dur­ "/ didn't think anybody could stop  Patriots' Tom Brady, tho two­limn Super  
ing a  1warly flawless  the Colts."  Bowl MVP, is 7­ 
perl'ormanr.P Oct. ;{ 1  0 in the play­ 
in a 34-20 Pittsburgh victory that 11ndnd Nnw Hngland 's 21­ Ben Roethlisberger Steelers quarterback  oil's. "My rookie year, thoro is  
ganw winning stmak.  no  way I could  
"I didn't think any- have  done  

body could stop tho Colts," what he did," said Brady, who Honthlisbnrger said. "Their oecasionally wears gloves him­oiTnnsn is so powerful in what self to get a better grip on the tlwy do, hut Nnw England obvi­new footballs used in every ously finds a way. They do so game. "I was awful. I couldn't many things, throw so many do anything. I was hoping to things at you. If thny can slow show up and bring my play­down that oiTnnso, who knows book. lin is out there and hasn't what thoy can do to ours'!" lost a game." 
To koep the prossurn off Hoethlishergor nearly did Hoothlisborgnr, tlw Stoelors Saturday, though, throwing one probably will try to pound tho interception that was returned ball from the start with power­for a touchdown and another ful backs Jerome Bettis and that led to .Jets kieker Doug l>uco Stall1y, who will split time Brinn's failed game-winning in itn oiTort to wear down the field goal try to end the fourth Patriots. quarter. Hoethlisberger recov­
Now England's run defense ered to lead a decisive scoring will bo weaknned if lineman drive in overtime as Pittsburgh 


eseaped with a that-was-dose 20-1 7 vietory. 
Steelcrs coach Bill Cowher isn't necessarily treating his prized rookie with kid gloves, but he was earnful to not be too eritieal despite the noar-eseapn against the Jets. 
"We wouldn't be sitting hnre today if' he hadn't donn some of the things that he's done, let's 
not. loso sight of that," Cowlwr said. ''I'm not going to overana­lyze it. Certainly thoro wnrn so1ne choices he made he would like to have back, hut we over­came it and we're moving on." 
"If tho guy's open, just throw it to him," Cowher said, passing on tho advice ho of'f'ornd Honthlisbfwgnr. "Whatnvnr that entails, you wnar." 



I 
I page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 20, 2005 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
.lltOWNING CUNe:MA "DlliiAIIt'IOL.O PllRFORI11NG ARTS Ce:NTIIt 
JAMUAIY ::110"'::116., 2001 
TICKETS ON SAL.E NOW AT THE PI!RfOitMINC ARTS CENTER aox OFFICI! $i STUDENTS • $5 fACUi.TYJSTAff • GET 'I!!M WHILE THI!Y LAST I · SCREE.HI!NGS 7P'M & 10 PM EACH NIGHT* NO SUNDAY SCREENING .. WWWND.EDUt•FTT PRESENTED BY THE OE.PARTMENT Of fiLM; TEL£\!'ISION, AND THEATRE 
: 
NFL 
Robbins charged vvith attem_pted m_urder 
Associated Press 
MIAMI -Former Oakland Haiders center Barret Hobbins was charged Wednesday with three counts of attempted felony murder, less than a week after being shot during a furi­ous struggle with three police officers investigating a burglary call. 
Hobbins is best remembered for missing team meetings the night before the 2003 Super Bowl in San Diego. lie spent Super Bowl Sunday in a hospi­tal and later acknowledged that he had stopped taking his medi­cine for depression and bipolar disorder. 
He was wounded Saturday night after Miami Beach police found him inside a women's restroom in a building housing a pub, a gym and a jewelry store. The pub owner called police after Hobbins forced his way inside the building and refused to leave, a police report said·. 
Hobbins, 31, of' Englewood, Colo., growled, snarled and "was heard laughing through­out the attack," the report said. 
G-reat Food! 
G-reat Futt! 
~t Sports Jar itt South Jettd 2046 South Jet1d Ave -Across frot~t Martit1s Plaza 272-1766 
fUES: COLLE~E NI~HT-PJ 6-SPECIALS (STARTIN~ AT $1,00) Wed: Live fRIVIA Night -~ring your teattts -Prizes fHURS: PJ -Pemw Night -1¢ Specials startit1g at 
9:00PM 
Gala 2005 Greencroft Senior Center Benefit Featuring comedian Mark Russell 
Media sponsors: W:he (~ashen Nems 

~ :gJ~ 
According to the report, Hobbins beat Officer Colin Pfrogner to the floor, picked up Detective Mark Schoenfeld and slammed him into one wall and then another, then grabbed Detective Mike Muley by the face and rammed his head into a corner. 
Robbins then grabbed Muley's forearms, and Muley shot Hobbins twice in the torso, the report said. The former player dropped to his knees, grabbed his chest, snarled and growled again, swore at the officers and slapped Muley's gun out of' his hand. 
A charge of attempted felony murder can be filed when someone is injured during a felony. It carries a possible 30­year prison sentence. The three counts he faces cover the three officers involved in his arrest, said Ed Griffith, spokesman for the Miami-Dade County state attorney's ollice. 
Arraignment was set for Feb. 9. 
Hobbins was critically injured and remains in a Miami hospi­tal jail unit, Griflith said. Muley received hospital treatment for a concussion. 
Sat., March 19, 2005 8:00p.m. 
Goshen College Music:.Center 
.. $35, 
eh College 
..•.... s. 
Major sponsors: ·· k One, Elkhart General pital, FirstState Bank, Goshen Health System, Jayco, Liberty Homes, MFB 
Financial, Nappanee Window, Sam's Club, Schrock Homes, and HomeCrest Cabinetry 

WANTED 
Resident 



Advisors 
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE PREPARATION PROGRAM 
The Northwestern University College Preparation Program is looking for resi­dent advisors to help guide high school students through a summer of learning and fun at Northwestern. Earn salary, including room and board; work with bright, motivated high school students from around the country and abroad; plan exciting events and gain valuable experience while enjoying Northwestern campus life and exploring Chicago this summer! 
Apply by February 11, 2005! 
For information and to request an application, contact Shannon Sparks at 847-491-6703 or s-sparks@northwestern .edu. 
BIGID~;ac 
S rn:-r~,-; S 
QUALIFICATIONS, 
• 
completion of sophomore year of college by June, 2005 

• 
a· consistent record of academic achievement 

• 
previous experience as an RA, tutor, or . camp counselor 

• 
excellent communication, leadership, motivation, and problem-solving skills 

• 
a wide range of extracurricular interests and activities 

• 
enthusiasm and a genuine interest in working with high school students 

• 
a strong sense of responsibility and a high level of maturity 



Thursday, January 20 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 


Kuntz 
continued from page 20 
dnfimsivo tackle fi1r the Irish. Kuntz had boon rncruited by some schools as a dnf'ensive end hut Frank expects him to play on tho inside of the line as wdl. 
Kuntz said he was attracted to Notre Dame for many rea­sons, one being the coaching stall'. 
"I love all the eoaches," Kuntz said. "They want nasty football playnrs, and I'm an old-school guy. I'm the type of guy who will go in there and punch you in the face." 
Kuntz, who along with I land received a three-star rating from Scout.com, also raved about the traditions at Notre Dame. 
"The tradition there is unlike anywlwre else," Kuntz said. "It's such a prestigious school, not only athletically but aca­domieally. A dngrnn from there opens up a lot of doors for you." 
Frank agreed that Kuntz, who racked up 114 tackles, 14 sacks and 27 tackles for loss during his senior season at Honcalli High School, will fit nicoly with Weis' aggressive style. 
"I In's tho type of guy you ean build a team around," Frank said. "lie's one of thosn lunch pail ~-,ruys that are going to work and work and work." 
With the intorior defensive line covered for 2005, Irish cmu:hns arn looking to sign at least one defensive end. l.awronefl Wilson, a defensive end from Akron, Ohio, had vnr­bally committed to Notre Dame but uncommitted when Tyrone Willingham was fired as head coach. 
"Wilson is a big-time player and he's going to take a visit to Miehigan this weekend," Frank said. "lie's also looking at Ohio State and Florida but Notre Dame still has a shot." 
Another player on the Irish radar is Youngstown, Ohio quarterback/defensive back Kyle McCarthy. Notre Dame just offered him a scholarship on Wednesday and Frank expects the two-way star to accept. ·· 
"lie is taking a visit to cam­pus this weekend," Frank said. "lie has a brother lwho doesn't play football! who is a junior at Notre Dame. lie's really exeited about his visit and I expect he'll commit to us pretty soon here." 
One player who could be the jewel of the Irish dass is New Jersey linebacker Brian Cushing. The Scout.com five­star player was leaning towards Southern California but lately has been reconsider­ing his decision. 
"Now I don't think he'll go to · USC," Frank said about Cushing, who made 120 tack­les, 9.5 sacks and 7 intercep­tions his senior season at Bergen Catholic High School. "SC is just too far and I don't think his parents want him to go so far from home." 
Cushing is now looking at Notre Dame along with Miami, Florida, Penn State, Louisville and Virginia. 
"It's a tough race to handicap because of all the big schools that are after him," Frank said. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 


Irish receive second cotntnittnent 
Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame women's golf team received a commitment from Courtney Sullivan for the 2005-06 season. Sullivan hails from Gresham, Ore. and joins Lisa Maunu, who com­mitted in November, as the class of 2009 for the Irish. The Irish are corning off a 2004 fall campaign, which included two tournament vie­tories. 
Sullivan is a standout at Sam Barlow lligh School, where she has had a strong career at the scholastic level and on the junior golf circuit. She is the top-ranked player in the state of Oregon, and 47th nationally, in the class of 2005 according to the Junior Golf Scoreboard. 
Courtney has two top-12 

national finishes to her cred­it, including a seventh-plaee showing at the AJGA Spokane Classic where she shot a 230 (76-79-75) against 17 other athletes. She earne in 12th out of 71 golfers at the junior America's Cup in Whitefish, Mont. in 2003 as she carded a 229 (82-75-72). 
Her experienee on the course ineludes the north­west junior ladies' match­play ehampionship (four-time participant), the junior America's Cup (three times), and she is a two-time partiei­pant at both the USGA girls' ehampionship and the junior world eharnpionship. She elaimed a victory at the 2003 Oregon stroke-play champi­onship. 
Sullivan, who has been playing competitively for over five years, possesses a 4.0 GPA and is first out of' 434 students in hnr elass. 
She collected two varsity letters while playing at Sam Barlow. Sullivan has won a combined seven tournament championships locally and across the Northwest throughout her career and placed third at the 4A state high school championships in 2003. Courtney is the daugh­ter of Lisa and Jerry Sullivan. 
"We fell in love with Courtney's heart for the game," said Notre Dame head coach Debby King, who is in her fourth year at the helm of the Notre Dame pro­gram. "She has a great deter­mination and work ethie. One of her strengths is her desire to be the best that she can be." 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Leinart rem_ains confident in choice 
Associated Press 
Still no swelled head for the big man on USC campus 
Five days after taking what might be the biggest risk in sports history, here is the short list of' things Matt Leinart still does not have: 
Millions in the bank. 

A new car in the driveway. 
Regrets. 
''I'm relieved more than any­thing," Leinart said Tuesday night over the phone from Los Angeles. "It feel<> really good to get all that pressure ofT my shoulders. It got to the point where I realized what­ever decision I made, there was going to be some criticism. 
"So," he added, "I just did what was best for me." 
The guys wtio run the NFL aren't used to hearing "No." Even though Leinart brought the lleisrnan Trophy back to USC and then tied the bow on a second straight national championship, you'd think the biggest man on campus would be (WPn bigger. 


Thursday, January 20, 2005 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
son when leading at halftime. The Irish are out to their


Guards 
best start in conference play continued from page 20 since the 2002-03 season, when Notre Dame won three 
Villanova Wndnesday, the of its first four and six of its Irish and Golden Eagles sit in first seven Big East games. a comfortable tie for second 
The Irish made the Sweet 16 place in the Big East. of the NCAA tournament that Notre Dame got to that point season. with help from forward Rick Thomas finished with six 
Cornett, who came off the rebounds and five assists bench in the first half to pro­along with his 16 points that vide an inside presence for a helped him reach the 2,000­previously one-dimensional point mark. 
offense. Austin Carr, Adrian Dantley, 
Cornett finished with six Pat Garrity, David Rivers and points on 3-of-5 shooting in 13 Troy Murphy are the other live minutes of play, and he and players with 2,000 or more 
Tarin Francis kept the points in Notre Dame history. Mountaineers honest down 
Jordan Cornette had six low. The Irish took advantage blocks to go along with six 
on the perimeter. points in 32 minutes. 

Orange cut the lead to 59-54. points, Jessica Hichter, 14, Notre Dame made 13-of-25 
but that was as close as and Vaida Sipaviciute addedNOTRE DAME 70, 

Batteast
3-point attempts, shooting 

Syracuse would come. 10 points, six rebounds andWEST VIRGINIA 57 
45.1 percent from the field 

Notre Dame went on a 7-0 eight blocks. 
continued from page 20
at the WVU Coliseum 
overall compared to West 

run behind five points from The loss snapped the Virginia's 33.3 shooting per­NOTRE DAME (12-3, 4-1 Big East) 
brace]," McGraw said. Batteast, closing the door on Orange's two-game winning
Cornette 2-5 0·0 6, Francis :{-5 0-0 6,
centage. 

However, the Irish started the Orange for good. The Irish streak in the Big East. 
Thomas 5-11. 3-3. Falls 5-13 4-4 19, 

off slow, falling behind 15-9 finished the game on a 15-5
Falls, Thomas and Chris 
Quinn 4-9 3-3 13, Cornett 3-5 0-0 6,Quinn (13 points, 4-of-9 shoot­Nickol 0-0 0-0 0, Murphy 0-0 0-0 0, Kurz 

with 12:57 to play in the first run. 
No. 11 NOTRE DAME 7 4, 
ing) all finished in double fig­0-0 0-0 0, Latimore 0-2 1-2 1, Carter 1-1 

half after missing a few easy "Defensively, I think we SYRACUSE 61
0-0 3. Israel 0-0 0-0 0, Bosl 0-0 0-0 0. 

shots and turning the ball have a lot of work to do,"
ures. 
at the MANLEY FIELD HOUSE
"When we're shooting the 

over. McGraw said. "We have a lot
WEST VIRGINIA (11-4, 1-3) ball like that, we're going to · Gansey 2-8 3-4 7, Sally 0-3 0-0 0, 

But Batteast hit a jump shot of work to do in our man-to­NOTRE DAME (15-3, 3-2 Big East) be tough to beat," Brey told Pittsnogle 3-10 2-3 8, Collins 2-5 0-0 5, 
to start a 14-0 Notre Dame man. We just need to keep Batteast 7-13 5-5 19, Erwin 0-4 0-0 0, Herber 3-9 2-5 9, Price 0-0 0-0 0, Nichols 
Borton 4-11 0-0 8, Duffy 6-9 4-4 17,

run, and the Irish led 23-15 getting better." 
ESPN. 
2-4 0-0 6, Young 2-6 0-0 5, Beilein 
Gray 0-5 0-0 0. Gaines 0-0 0-0 0, Allen
Notre Dame jumped out to 

with just over nine minutes to Notre Dame forced 19
1-5 2-2 5, Bonner 2-4 0-0 4, Fischllr 3-6 

6-9 3-4 17, Powers 0-0 0-0 0, D'Amico its largest lead on a Quinn 2-3 8. 
play in the first half. turnovers, leading to 28 0-0 0-0 0. LaVere 6-10 0-2 13 three-pointer with 10:11 
The Irish were able to points. They also dominated 
SYRACUSE (10-6, 2-3)
1st 2nd Total 

extend their lead to 43-30 at on the boards, outreboundingremaining. increasing the lead 
NOTRE DAME 38 32 70 Richter 5-12, 2-3 14. Nwagbo 3-7. 9-10,
to 59-40. 

halftime, behind LaVere and Syracuse 40-27, including 17
WEST VIRGINIA 31 26 57 

15, Sipavieiute 5No. 11-6, 0-0. 10, Kohn The Irish kept the offense 
point guard Megan Duffy, who on the offensive end. 1-5, 0-0. 3, Coleman 5-11. 5-5, 16, open against West Virginia's 1-:i-point goals: Notre Dame: 13-25 (Palls 
had 13 first half points. As a "We really attacked the bas­Adamson 0-0 0-0 0, llarbut 0-2, 1-2, 1. 5-12, Thomas 3-5, Quinn 2-3, Cornette 2­
Norton 0-0 2-2 2, 
3-1 zone, allowing Thomas to 

team, Notre Dame shot 49 ket and were able to hold
4. Carter 1-1 ); West Virginia: 7-23 (Herber 
drive and giving Cornett, 

percent from the field in the them down, so I thought that
2-5, Nichols 2-2, Beilein 1-4, Young 1-3, 

1st 2nd Tol.al Francis and Latimore room to Collins 1-2. Pittsnogle 0-3, Gansey 0-3. 
first half, including 3-for-3 was good," McGraw said. NOTRE DAME 43 31 74 operate on the low block. Sally 0-11. Rebounds: Notre Dame: 33 
from long distance. Freshman reserve Charel Opponent :m :H 61 
(Cornette 7, Thomas 6, Falls 4. Quinn 4, 
Johannes Herber led the 

In the second half, it was Allen also had a career high
Cornett 3, Francis 3, Latimore 2, Israel 1); 3-point goals: Notre Dame 4-7 (Allen 2­
Mountaineers with nine points, Syracuse (10-6, 2-3) who 17 points on 6-for-9 shooting

West Virginia 37 (llerber 7, Fischer 5, 

2, Du!Ty 1-3, LaVere 1-1. Batteast 0-1).while D'Or Fischer and Kevin Sally 5, Gansey 4, Pittsnogle 3, Young 3. 
came out fighting. With 11:04 for the Irish, one game after Syracuse 4-17 (Riehter 2-9. Coleman 1­Pittsnogle chipped in eight Beilein 1. Bonner 1, Nichols 1) Assists: 
to play, Syracuse's Chineze she was 2-for-10 from the 6, Kohn 1-2). Fouled out: Richter. Notre Dame 14 (Thomas 5, Cornette 3, 
Rebounds: Notre Dame Dame 17-40

Nwagbo converted on a three­field against Purdue. Duffyapiece. 
Quinn 3, Falls 2, Francis 1); West Virhrinia (LaVern 10), Syracuse 8-27 !Sipavidute
West Virginia fell into a hole point play that sent Batteast finished with 17 points to go 

6). Assists: Notre Damn 15 (Duffy 6), early, as Notre Dame hit seven 2, Young 2). Total fouls: Notre Dame 15, 
14 !Ganscy 4, Bnilein 3, Herber 3, Nichols 

to the bench with her fourth along with six assists, five Syracuse 14 (Coleman 4). Total fouls: first-half 3-pointers and went Syracuse 12. 
foul. Notre Dame missed its rebounds and four steals. Notre Dame 15, Syracusn 16. into halftime with a 38-31 
next five shots, but Syracuse For Syracause, Nwagbo fin­lead. Contact Pat Leonard at 
could not take advantage. ished with 15 points and five ' Contact Heather Van Hoegarden Notre Dame is 11-0 this sea-pleonard@nd.edu 
With 5:20 remaining, the rebounds. Coleman had 16 at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
With 35.8 seconds left in the game and the Ilornets clinging


Boyce 
to a two-point lead, Boyce nailed a go-ahead three-point­
continued from page 20 
er to give Saint Mary's a 62-61 lead. After the Belles grabbed den, I look up, and we're a rebound with 20 seconds down by four," Belles coach remaining, Boyce found the Suzanne Bellina said. "[Hiley's ball once again, this time hit-foul trouble] defi-ting two free nitely gave us a throws with 13.2 huge opportunity." "[Riley's foul left on the game Alison Kessler trouble] definitely clock to give drew three fouls Saint Mary's a
gave us a huge
in the paint dur­three-point lead.
opportunity."
ing the final six However, the minutes, and she thrills were not hit all eight of her Suzanne Bellina over quite yet. free throws on the With 1.1 sec­
Belles coach 
night, improving ond remaining, on her MlAA-best Hornets' Angie 90 percent free-throw percent­Neu drew a three-shot foul on age. Boyce, giving Kalamazoo an In fact, Kessler leads Division extra chance to tie the game. III in free-throw percentage After Neu hit the first cleanly among those with at least 60 and the second rattled in, the attempts on the Hornets trailed by season. just one.
"It seemed like we
Emily Creach­Kalamazoo eoaeh baum also took were down by ro Michelle Fortier advantage of the and all ofa then inexplicitly Hornets' vulnera­elected to leave
sudden, I look up,
bility in the paint, just one player in scoring six of her and we're down by the box to try to 19 points in the Jour." grab the rebound final five min­if Neu missed her utes. third free-throw. 
Suzanna Bellina 
Ilowever, the When the ball 
Belles coach 
big blows bounced off the 
ineluding two side of the rim, 
pivotal threes -came from three Hellos' out-muscled the 

,. 
Boyce. She finished the game lone Hornet for the rebound. I with 19 points, scoring in dou­With the win, the Belles (8-9, 
' 
ble figures in the second half 3-5 MIAA) climbed to a fourth­alone. place tie in the MlAA. The Belles will look to get back to .500 on Saturday at Contact Ken Fowler at Tri-State. kfowler 1 @nd.edu 



Thursday, January 20, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page I 9 
DILBERT 
TINA TRAINS HER BOSS 
YOU'LL FIND ME IN THIS CHAIR I DOING REAL WORK. 


PEANUTS 
WHEN I WAS LITTLE AND I DIDN'T FEEL WELL, MOM WAS ALWAYS THERE ... 
YOUR JOB. AS I UNDER­STAND IT, IS TO MAKE UNINFORMED DECISIONS AND ACT LIKE A SOCIO­PATHIC EGOMANIAC. 
I NEVER SHOULD HAVE LEFT 1-lOME .. 1-lOW CAN I TELL MOM NOW TI-IAT M'l STOMACH 1-lURTS? 

SCOTT ADAMS 
YOU'LL USUALLY 
I ALSO 
STAND LIKE TO 
LIKE FIDGET AND 

THIS. 

f-IARRUMPH. 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

JJ&M®I1JE. 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, Alii want on rt is to form four ordinary words. "Happy Birthday,Sally" 
VREYN 
j
I I r () 
C2005 Tnbune Media Services, Inc. All R1ghls Reserved. 
NUEQE j 
1 
rx 
GRUEFE 

[XJ b
www.jumble.com 

I J I J I 
k 
..r x x x x J" THE r x ~ x x J 
(nswers tomorrow) 
MESSY PARKA LIQUOR NAUSEAYesterday's I Jumbles: 

Answer: A round belly can be the result of too many­SQUARE MEALS 

WHAT ?HE: TOLC/ THE: E'AKE:R TO C/0 ON HE:R E'IRTHC/AY C.AKE:. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 24 Soccer great 1 Subject of this 25 See 18-Across puzzle 31 Give_ (care) 6 James of 32 New Haven, Hollywood City of_ 1 o Game in which 33 Grp. paying for jacks are always some election highest trumps ads 14 Needle, perhaps 35 Doubles partner's call
15 Moro, former Italian 
36 Goes south in a 
P.M. big way 
38 Neighbor of Java 16 Don't do it: Var. 
17 Coffee maker's 39 Alphabet trio
accessory 40 Hitching place 
18 With 25-, 42­and 55-Across, 41 Michael who a definition of 
wrote the 1975 
1-Across, best seller according to "Power!" Dennis Miller 42 See 18-Across 
20 Sat down, 46 Make content slangily 47 Prefix with 22 Eschew home graphic cooking 48 City where El 23 Score just 
Greco died before winning 51 Shakespearean a game title character 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-:':t-:+:-+.-1 13 Feature of 
many a bird 19 Goes on strike 21 Racket 
...,..-::+,-+:-+:::+:,-i 24 Defeater of Clay 
25 Hobbling 26 Enlighten 27 Dance with 
bandone6n accompaniment 
29 Subject of a pioneering 1965 MoMAshow 


THE OBSERVER 
55 See 18-Across 57 Signed on 58 Quick approval: 
Abbr. 59 Assortment 60 Tour de France 
stage 61 Burkina _, neighbor of Mali 62 "_Coming" (1969 hit) 63 M.O.'s 
DOWN 1 [Horrors!] 2 Donald Duck, to 
his nephews 3 "Are you_ out?" 4 First line of 
"Misty" 5 Digitally entered 6 Capturing 7 Heaps B Tack on 9 Biting pests 
10 _Island, N.Y. 
11 Big belt 
12" Ben 
Adhem" 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

40 Italian clothing 49 Mrs. Chaplin label 
50 Clark's crush 41 Deli snacks 

51 Year in the reign of Edward
36 Directly opposed 43 No longer bothered by the Elder 
37 Stadium in 44 Yellow-throated 52 Nest eggs, for

Queens birds 
short 38 Modern jargon 
53 Co. unit45 Suffix with word for glycer-54 Citrus coolers 

complete nonsense 48 Worker's shout 56"_say!" 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 

past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year) . Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.comllearning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST

HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Jodie Sweetin. 23; Shawn Wayans, 34; Wendy Moniz, 36; Junior Semi, 36 
Happy Birthday: You have everything under control, hut that doesn'tmcan you won't stretch yourself to the limit this year. You can make it much easier on yourself by controlling how much you spend and how much you promise others. Keep things on a small scale and you will end up with a lot more. This is a great year for you as long as you arc thrifty. cautious and very precise in your dealings. Your numbers arc 6. 18. 23, 30, 38, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Family problems will escalate, hut if you work hard and concentrate on gelling ahead financially, you can rise above some of the unfavorable goings-on in your own hack yard. Avoid arguments. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You should he following your own plan today. not someone else's. You have the ideas and the wherewithal to do whatever you set your mind on. Social events will lead to love. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take care of money mailers today. You stand to make gains if you are quick to respond to an offer being made. You should fix up your living quarters so they suit your needs bcl!er. *** CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Everything you do to help someone out will contribute to the way other people look at you. You are in a high cycle regarding love and romance, so don't miss out by silling home alone. **** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Do the best job possible today and you will surpass even your biggest critic's expectations. If you let your work ethics slip, you will definitely have to answer for your laziness. ** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Nothing should stand in your way if you arc adamant about getting things done. You will be a little accident prone, so be cautious. The best news is that this is a great day for love. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): The action appears to be at home, hut you may want to keep a low profile. Someone is likely to he on the rampage. You need peace and quiet today so find a quiet spot. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Friends and family will hend over backwards to help you today. Love is looking good, and gelling out and mingling will certainly be to your benefit. Short trips will pay off. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): You'll be all worked up and anxious to get things done. You can find the perfect outlet for your energy hy pushing hard to complete tasks that will equate in monetary gains. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can't lose if you put your hcan into what you do. You will be competitive and welcome any challenge that's offered. It's a chance to prove your valor and impress someone you love. ***** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don'tleave anyone out, or you will hear about it from someone who matters to you. Do whatever you can to please. Improve your home by adding comfort and more entertainment. ** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Love, friendship and partnership should be your concern today. Getting together with others to fight a cause will lead to an interesting connection that will intluence your future. **** 
Birthday Baby: You are dedicated and will always make sure that everyone around you is taken care of. You are a loyal friend. and you have strong convictions. You will never back down from anything or anyone . 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenia/a.l'/.com. 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip___________ 
'' 


THE OBSERVER 

PORTS

Thursday, January 20, 2005 page 20 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Recruits continue to commit 
Kuntz and Hand bring total for class of2009 to 13 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Writer 
Patrick Kuntz eagerly dialed his phone at 3 o'clock Tues­day morning. He was call­ing Jappy Oliver to let the Irish defensive tinA coach know he will be 

Kuntz
playing foot­ball for Notre Dame. "Coach Oliver and I had this 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 
Courtney Sullivan became Notre Dame's second commitment for the 2005-06 season. 
page 17 
joke going where he said he never turns his phone off," Kuntz, a defensive tackle from Indianapolis, said. "I wanted to see what he'd say. Fortunately he wasn't mad. He was actually pretty happy." 
The 6-foot-3, 255-pound Kuntz verbally committed to the Irish over Louisville and Michigan State. However, he cannot sign an official letter of intent until Feb. 2. 
lie joins West Philadelphia Catholic product Derrell Hand as the 12th and 13th verbal com­mitments for Notre Dame this year. !land, who announced he will be playing for the Irish Wednesday afternoon, is a 6­foot-4, 305-pound defensive tack­IH. lie chose Notre Dame over Michigan State and Wisconsin. 
Mike Frank of' Irisheyes.eom 
NCAA FOOTBAll 
After choosing to return to USC for his senior year, quarterback Matt Leinart remains confident in his deci­sian. 
page 17 

said Hand is a solid pick-up for Notre Dame. 
"He's a big body," Frank said. "He has very good size and plays hard." 
Hand could not be reached Wednesday night but his mother was thrilled by her son's choice. 
''I'm very excited about [Hand's commitment]," Deborah Middleton said. "We had a really great time on our trip to campus. We met all the coaches except !Irish head! coach !Charlie] Weis, and I was really impressed with them. They seem like they have been working together for years. They are re.cruiting a lot of strong young men and I'm really excited about the future of the program." 
Hand will most likely play 
see KUNTZ/page 17 

Nfl Nfl 
Nfl 
Former Oakland Pittsburgh quarter-
Philadelphia quarter-Raiders center Barret back Ben Roethlisberger 
back Donovan McNabb Robbins was charged prepares to be the first 
is confident as the team Wednesday with three rookie starting quarter-
enters its fourth consec­counts of attempted back to reach the Super 
utive NFC title game. felony murder. Bowl with a win on Sunday. page 17 page 15 
page 13 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles m_ove to fourth in MIAA with 64-63 win 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Belles guard Bridget Boyce had a roller-coaster finale during Wednesday night's contest against MIAA foe Kalamazoo. 
With the Belles trailing with 
35.8 seconds left in the eon­test, Boyce scored live unan­swered points to load tho Belles to the 64-63 win. 
Saint Mary's trailed 27-2(> at the half and was behind for most of the second after los­ing its momentum. 
Belles guard Alison Kessler created a great opportunity for Saint Mary's to take the lead into the break with a steal and drive, but she was called for a charging foul with 6.7 seconds remaining in the half. 
The call seemHd to weigh heavily on the Belles, as the Hornets staked out a 10-point lead with a 21-12 run to begin the second. The Belles trailed by 10 with 8:45 remaining, but Hornets' cen­ter Ashley Riley accumulated her fourth foul with 6:37 remaining, giving the Belles just tho break they needed to slice into the lead. 
"lt seemed like we were down by 10 and all of a sud-
see BOYCE/page 18 
~--­
PGA 
Phil Mickelson begins the 2005-06 season in the Buick Invitational. 
page 13 
ND BASKETBALL 
Strong start, finish 
Falls scores 19 points 
in 70-57 win over  
the Mountaineers  
By PAT LEONARD  
Associate Sports Writer  
Troy Murphy should watch  
his heels.  
Chris Thomas had 16 points  
and Colin Falls led all scorers  
with 19 as the Irish beat West  
Virginia at its own game in a  
70-57 win in Morgantown. W.  
Va. Wednesday night.  
Thomas notched his 2,000th  
career point, becoming only  
tlw sixth player in Notre Dame  
history to do so and needing  
just 11 points to tie Murphy's  
2,011 career total. Murphy,  
now with the Golden State  
Warriors, played three sea­ 
sons with the Irish.  
Thomas was a major player  
in a terrific shooting night for  
Notre Dame (12-3, 4-1 Big  
East), which made 52 percent  
of its 3-point shots and six  
more from behind the arc  
than the traditionally danger­ 
ous Mountaineers (11-4, 1-3).  
"Our guards were excellent  
tonight," Irish coach Mike  
Brey told ESPN after the  
game.  
Notre Dame won its second  
straight and its first of seven  
road games in its next 10 con­ 
tests.  
Since Boston College  TIM SULLIVANilhe Observer  
squeaked out a 67-66 win over  Guard Chris Thomas looks to pass against  
Syracuse Jan. 10. Thomas scored his 2,000th  
see GUARDS/page 18  point against West Virginia Wednesday night.  


Irish overpow-er Syracuse 
Batteast scores 19 points in 74-61 victory 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Editor 
After a big win against No. 24 Purdue, Notre Dame wasn't quite ready for a letdown Wednesday. 
DespitP a slow start, the No. 11 Irish were able to pull away for a 74-61 win over Syracuse in New York Wednesday night. 
JacquPline Batteast had 19 points on 7-for-13 shooting for the Irish {15-3, 3-2 Big East), who snapped their two-game Big East losing streak with the win. 
"I am really pleased with our offense, and I think we're improving," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "But I would just like to see us play a little bet­ter defense." 
Tho Irish were led in the first half by Courtney LaVere, who played 35 minutes off the bench. LaVere scored 13 points on 6-for-7 shooting, all in the first half, to spark the Irish. She even hit the one shot she took from beyond the arc. 
"I thought Courtney gave us a great lift off the bench," McGraw said. "She was really ready to play. She did a great job attacking. I thought that was just a great performance for her." 
LaVere also pullPd down 10 rebounds for her second dou­ble-double of the year. 
"I think she was just a little

liM 5ULLI\iANJ i ne 
more comfortable !without the 
see BATTEAST/page 18 

Megan Duffy calls a play in a victory against Purdue Sunday. The Irish came away with the win against Syracuse Wednesday night. 













