
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Trustees respond positively to diversity report 
Student leaders speak to racism, heterosexism, sexism at Notre Dame; Board applauds ambitious choice of topic 
By MEGHANNE DOWNES 
News Writer 
Following a fall Board of Trustnes report that received harsh criticism, trustees widely praised student government's winter report, applauding its diversity theme and stating that it W<L'i one of the more comprehen­sive and researched presentations in recent history. 
Student body vice president Karla Bell, chief executive assis­tant Dave Baron and co-founder of Sustained Dialogue Tessa Garcia delivered the report, enti­tlnd "Issues of Equality: Creating a Welcoming Environment for All. Part I: The Situation," 
Thursday afternoon as the first of a two-part presentation that explores racism, heterosexism and sexism at Notre Dame. For the upcoming spring report. stu­dent body president /\dam Istvan, Bell and Baron intend to provide solutions for working towards increasing diversity on campus and addressing the question, "Can one be different at Notre Dame?" 
Baron said this report is addressing and attempting to counter the popular stereotype that defines the Notre Dame stu­dent image as a straight, white, Catholic male. 
Garcia stressed the majority at Notre Dame often does not under­stand the minority's plHlition or reactions, citing the !iring of foot­ball head coach Tyrone Willingham as an example. Garcia said even though the firing was not racially motivated, the majority of students do not sec the pain the event caused to minority students who viewed Willingham as their advocate. 
Garcia also noted there is a demand within the student body 
ND marks Black History Month 
Hesburgh, others led civil rights movement 
By JULIE BENDER 
New> Writer 
With Fnbruary dnsignated as National Black History month. it is the perfect time to nd1eet on race issues at Notre Dame, fr()rn both a historical and a modern perspective. 
The Univnrsity has made gn1at strides since World War 
II. when only one black stu­dent was enrolled, to the cur­rnnt estimate of a 4.5 percent black i)()pulation. Yet after 60 years. there is still work to be done. 
Hesburgh's Influence 
The University's crucial role in the. civil rights movement was largely due to the influ­ence .of University President Iirneritus Fathe.r Ilesburgh. 
Ilesburgh's 35-year presi­dency at Notre Dame began in 1952, just as civil rights issues were beginning to stir in the United States. Beyond his duties as University presi­dent. Ilesburgh played a sig­nificant role advocating civil rights at the national level. In 1957, Ilesburgh became a 
see HISTORY/page 4 

At right, Father Theodore Hesburgh worked for civil rights. Above, black faculty discuss race at Notre Dame.
•

PHOTOS BY CHUY BENITEZ AND CLAIRE KELLEY 
to increase diversity Pdur.ation. citing the inability of students to register for profnssor 1/\lvinl Tillery's Hace and Ethnicity cla..'is, the overwhelming popularity of esc seminars that cannot accom­modate more than 75 percent of its applicants and tiHl overabun­dance of over 400 applicants for only 35 diversity educator posi­tions. 
sec BOARD/page 6 

Candidate presents nevv ideas 
Saint Mary's hosts reception 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Assisram News Editor 
Saint Mary's held its second candidate reception Thursday afternoon in its search to fill the new position of vice presi­dent for enrollment manage­ment. 
Candidate Marcia Nance. currently the vice provost for university marketing and enrollment at Barry University in Miami Shores, Fla.. presented her plans for improving enrollnll'nt num­bers at Saint Mary's to a group of 50 faculty and staff members. The presentation was followed by a question· and-answer session. 
Despite some fluctuation in the number of applicants and students, according to Nance. the College has a very strong base to work with. 
sec SMC/pagc 6 



Candidates square off in debate 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Assistant News Editor 
/\mid the buzz of LaFortune's dinnertime din, 
the six tickets  
for  student  
body  presi- See Also  
dent tried  to  "Election 2005"  
make their voices hoard  In Focus  
in  the  de­ 

bates Thursday night. 
The seating area in front of tlw Burger King played host to the debates for the first time, dwsen over previous locations 
sec DEBATE/page 9 



Campus Ministry 
hosts GLB retreat 
By MADDIE HANNA 
News Writer 
The eighth annual Gay. Lesbian and Bisexual Retreat, running tonight through Saturday, serves an important role at Notre Dame, according to the event's organizers. 
"I think it's a very special part of Notre Dame that we can have a retreat like this," Day Zimlich, student organiz­er of the retreat, said. 

Zimlich. who went on the GLB retreat two years ago, emphasized the progn~ssive natur11 of having a rPtrPat about Catholicism and homo­sexuality. two elenwnts oftrn seen as having conflicting values. llr complimentPd Campus Ministry for provid­ing the opportunity for such a "large intnrface between aca­demics. faith, and hot top­ics." 
Hegarding his personal 
see RETREATIpage 4 


.-------~ ~-------­
Friday, February 4, 2005

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT QUESTION WOULD YOU ASK IN YOUR OWN PHOTO POLL? 
Donor Stephanie Snyder shares a smile with the woman preparing to draw her blood In the blood drive held from 9 a.m. until 3:30 p.m. Wednesday In the Regina Lounge at Saint Mary's College. 
INSIDE COLUMN 
California, here I cotne ... 
When I hear that opening chord, I know where I belong -on the couch watching television. Who would have thought that a weekly melodrama revolving around the 
rich and beautiful  
and the trouble  Eric Retter  
associated with  
their lifestylewould become  Sports Writer  
such a smash suc­ 
cess?  

Every Thursday at 8 p.m.,17 of my closest friends and I crowd into an 11x14 dorm room to watch the latest installment of "The O.C.," the only thing on network television worth watching since Tom Brokaw signed off earlier this winter. 
In fact, in light of "The O.C." phe­nomenon, I no longer regard the people whose lives are actually intertwined with mine in the same way. My real friends are Seth, Ryan and the gang over in Newport. It used to be that I could only spend one hour a week in their magical world, but now, thanks to the magic of DVD technology and cor­porate salesmanship, I can spend as much time as I want escaping reality on the sunny beaches of Southern California. 
Now I know the arguments against my newly found addiction. I know I'm a guy and that, when watching TV, it is my duty to watch sports. As much as I love contests of athletic ability, I know how they are going to end before they even begin. Someone's going to win, half the competitors are going to be heartbroken and throughout the event. people are going to commit rules infractions that slow the action. 
However, with "The O.C.," events happen that don't conform them­selves to any kind of predetermined guidelines. Hypothetically, a young man from the wrong side of the tracks could, after burning down his adopted mother's house, date the sister she never knew she had. 
Indeed, the possibilities are end­less. 
I say now, more than ever, we need "The 0 .C." Like it or not, we live in South Bend, a winter hell from October to early May. I, like many I know, hate South Bend weather; I hate it like I hate Julie Cooper, the Mussolini-in-heels devil-woman on the show. As we trudge from test to test bundled against temperatures the human body should only experience when reaching for another sample at the local Ben & Jerry's, what is the harm of living vicariously through beach kids whose toughest decision is which Cover Girl model they should take to the spring dance. 
All I know is that I wish I had their problems. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd. edu 
CORRECTION 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
you park?" 



Atlanta 56 I 38 Boston 38 I 30 Chicago 44 I 28 Denver 58 I 25 Houston 60 I 40 Los Angeles 76 148 Minneapolis 42 1 28 New York 40 I 32 Philadelphia 43 I 30 Phoenix 65 I 51 Seattle 50 I 40 St. Louis 55 I 36 Tampa 64 147 Washington 46 1 32 
I Ubserver 

IN BRIEF 
Jerome Clayton Glenn. co­founder and director of The Millennium Project. will bP giv­ing the lecture "Long Range Global Challenges and Their Implications for Business" today from 10:30 a.m. to 12 
p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. The talk is part of the "Tyn Years lienee" Lecture Series. 
Allison Truitt of Cornell University will give a lecture entitled "Dollars are for Keeping: Economic Reforms and the Limits to State" today from 11:45 a.m. to 1 p.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall. The lec­ture is sponsored by the depart­ment of anthropology. 
The film "Maria Full of Grace" will be shown tonight at 7 p.m. and 10 in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The Notre Dame men's hock­ey team will take on Nebraska­Omaha at 7:30 p.m. tonight in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
The men's and women's track teams will take part in the Meyo Invitational from 7 
p.m. to 9:30 tonight in the Loftus Sports Center. 
A seminar in American Religion entitled "Rome in America: Transnational Catholic Ideology from the Risorgimento to Fascism" will take place Saturday from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. in McKenna Hall. The event is sponsored by the Cushwa Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


45 34 30 15 
-· 

Jamie Blanke 
sophomore Keough 
"What's your favorite line in Forrest Gump?" 
Jason Llu 
freshman Knott 
"Boxers or briefs?" 


Kristen Klein 
junior McGlinn 
"Ifyou could park anywhere on campus, where would 
OFFBEAT 

Pollee sink teeth Into new image 
MANILA, Philippines ­Philippine police with bad teeth got something to. grin about Monday when President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo's hus­band handed out free den­tures to improve the confi­dence and public image of the national force. 
Mike Arroyo's "A New Smile for the Toothless" campaign originally focused on market vendors in Manila but was extended to police officers, who earn as little as $157 per month. 
Omar Taribul, a senior officer with two decades of 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
c:: 
L&J 
::c 
~ 
L&J 
:t 
.... 
<C 
(,) 





.s 
HIGH 40 HIGH 30 HIGH HIGH LOW 26 LOW 20 LOW LOW 
43 33 
50 37 
service, said he had endured years of humilia­tion since losing his teeth in a gun battle with com­munist rebels in 1994. 
"I can smile because I now have a brand new set of teeth," Taribul said at the headquarters of the Philippine National Police's southern command in Manila, as dentists exam­ined members of the force. 
Love grows from back seat of New York cab 
NEW YORK -If you look hard enough, you can find anything in New York. 
So for the lovelorn who are burned out by the bar scene, fed up with personal ads or tired of scouring the Internet, there's another place to look for that per­fect date: the back seat of a taxicab. 

Specifically, Ahmed Ibrahim's cab. 
The 50-year-old Egyptian immigrant sets up blind dates for his single passen­gers through a free, impromptu matchmaking service he runs out of his yellow cab. He said he finds mates. or at least dates, for about eight peo­ple a week. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Kyle Karches  Nick Zarazua  
freshman Keough  freshman Carroll  
"What question would you ask in your own photo poll?"  "Why am I so cool?"  

Friday, February 4, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Professors discuss faith d~versity 
By JEN ROWLING 
News Writer 
Thrne professors of varying faith backgrounds participated in a rnligious diversity discussion Thursday sponsored by the Senate Committee of Diversity i\fl"airs. 
i\srna Afsaruddin. a professor of Arabic and Islamic studies, said she finds her studenLc:; eager to learn about other religions. 
"There is an attempt to under­stand what different faiths are about," she said. 
Similarly, economics professor Amitava Dutt explained his stu­dnnts are constantly questioning moral issues concerning con­sumption and happiness. lie feels this inquisitiveness creates a comfortable atmosphere for non­Catholic students at Notre Dame. 
Afsaruddin encouraged stu­dnnL<> of other faiths who do not feel comfortable to become proactive and establish groups with other students who have sirnihtr interesL<> and ideas. 
Elliot Bartky, program of liber­al studies professor, questioned the seriousness of Catholicism at Notre Dame. As a conservative .Jew, Bartky said he would be very upset if he were Catholic and witnessed students looking to other faiths. In addition, he questioned having to take only two n~ligion classes in order to fulfill the requirement set by the University. Bartky is often sur­prised at the limited knowledge Catholic Notre Dame students have of their own religion. 
Bartky added he would send his daughter neither to Notre Dame nor to a primarily Jewish school like Brandeis University. His focus does not lie in the reli­gion of the school, he said, but rather the culture within the school. Since Bartky believes the Jewish faith is not only a religion, but also a way of life, the lifestyle of students at both public univer­sities and Notre Dame would undermine this faith. 

According to Bartky, there would be one way for Notre Dame to draw Jewish or Muslim students. 
"You would have to bring Jews or Muslims who would want to give up faith," he said. Bartky also said he believes a religious Jew needs to pray with fellow Jews. 
International student Lindsey Lim agreed with Bartky. 
"Catholicism is only skin-deep here," she said. "It is not all the way through." 
She spoke of everyday happen­ings such as the type of clothing, viewing of certain television shows. and conversations that do not mirror the belief system of the Catholic Religion. She did attribute a portion of this to the American culture. 

Afsaruddin disagreed com­pletely. 
"I was surprised you don't think there are a lot of students who take religion seriously," she said. "My experience has been the opposite; they are question­ing faith ... they are branching out." 
Tommy Forri wondered if the conservative Catholic would be welcome at Notre Dame. If the University as a whole practiced deeper Catholicism, he said, the other religious backgrounds would feel more comfortable in the community. 
Afsaruddin disagreed and felt a non-Catholic religious student could practice his faith at Notre Dame. A Muslim student, she countered, could pray on his or her own and visit a mosque in South Bend. 
Contact Jen Rowiing at jrowling@nd.edu 
Saint Mary's to hold All-School Form.al 
By ERICA RANGEL 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's will bring Mardi Gras to South Bend's Palais Hoyale for its annual All School Formal Saturday. as students and their guests celebrate the theme "A Night in New Orleans." 
Approximately 800 tickets for the event, which will take place from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m., were sold at $20 for a couple or $10 for a single ticket. This is a great turnout considering the maxi­mum capacity for the Palais Royale is 850 guests, said Jill Funnell, Residence Hall Association vice president and co-chair of the dance. 
Last year the dance had to be postponed due to conflicts with venue locations. This year is a different story, said Funnell. 
"This year's planning has gone very smoothly, especially in comparison to last year," she said. "The only setback was the gifts being backordered. Otherwise, everything is set to go for Saturday." 
In the spirit of the formal's theme, dance guests will receive hurricane mugs. a· reference to the traditional New Orleans bev­erage. Unfortunately, due to the backordering, those will be dis­tributed within the next few weeks, said Funnell. 
Due to the Palais Royale's poli­cies, no decorations are allowed. but guests may still enjoy the beautiful atmosphere and archi­tecture of the venue. said Funnell. 
Not only is the event entr.r­taining, but Saint Mary's is for­tunate to even hold a school­wide dance, said Funnell. 
"It is a gn~at opportunity to bring thr. entim College together in an event that always proves to be a great time," she said. "This is a unique opportunity that SMC has because of its dos(l-knit nature." 
Sophomore Laura Mogle feels that the All School Formal is a an improved option over individ­ual dorm dances. 
"I think this is a much better way to have the dance," she said. "Saint Mary's is so friendly that you arc sure to have friends in more than one dorm. It's nice to have a night when everyone will be there, so it's not exclu­sive," Mogle said. 
With second semester well underway, students also feel the timing is right for this nvent. "I can't wait to go. I just need to get my mind ofl' of things for one weekend," senior Cassie Gerstner said. 
Mogle agreed. and also point­ed to the appropriateness of the theme. 
"Mardi Gras is always a good time," she said, "and the formal is sure to be the same." 
Alcohol will not be permitt(~d at the dance regardless of age. 
Contact Erica Rangel at rang4716@saintmarys.edu 
THE 

R 
is now accepting applications for 


General Board 


Any full time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross is encouraged to apply. Applicants should submit a resume and an application at least 3 pages long explaining how they would run their department. 
NEWS EDITOR 
Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News 
Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and is 
responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR 
Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Ed1tor manages a staff·of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of ed~ors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SCENE EDITOR Applicants should have feature writing and editing experience. The Scene Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas and is responsible for the content of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with the News, Sports and Scene department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Applicants should have reporting, writing and editing skills. The editor man­ages Saint Mary's department heads,· coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story Ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER 
Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees a staff of account executives and is responsible for generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of Quark Xpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager over­sees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing depart­ments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicants must be familiar with building and maintaining a Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial department of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the s1te. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand or Adobe 111ustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top­quality graphics with the content of each day's newspaper. 
Friday, February 4, 2005

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
History 
continued from page 1 

charter member of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, and served as its chairman from 1969 to 197 2. During his 15 years on the commission, Hesburgh oversaw hundreds of hearings and sought to identify problems of civil rights in America. 
"I worked alongside President Lyndon Johnson to create laws needed to guaran­tee black voting, and to administer justice in the areas of education and labor," Hesburgh said. "We helped to pass the comprehensive Civil Rights Act in 1964." 
The 1964 Civil Rights Act, which prohibits discrimination of all kinds based on race, color, religion and national origin, has come to be known as the most extensive civil rights legislation passed since the post-Civil War Recon­struction era. 
Hesburgh credits President Johnson for the passage of this act. 
"There is no president before or after who could have had such enormous influence on the House and Senate," Hesburgh said. "Though there has been progress since 1964, that was the beginning of the emancipation of blacks in America, who had been denied participation in various important .aspects of American life up to that point." Civil rights at Notre Dame 
Hesburgh's influence on civil rights also affected his own university, Notre Dame, which. like most schools in the country, was facing integra­tion challenges. 
"There were no blacks at Notre Dame until World War II, when the Navy sent one black candidate here for training," Hesburgh said. "That student returned to Notre Dame to complete his degree after the war, and dur­ing my presidency, we made many efforts to build up the presence of black men and women students in our stu­dent body." 
Hesburgh's goal of integra­tion was not solely his battle. Students on campus at the time also played a role in opening the community to black students, he said. 
"During the difficult days of student revolutions, there were many student cavalcades in order to highlight the need for a minority presence at Notre Dame," Hesburgh said. "Great progress was made during these days, and also in the days to follow under the fruitful efforts of the current president, Father [Edward] Malloy, during his years in office." Progress over the years 
Notre Dame has come a long way from its early struggles, many faculty and students pointed out. Journalism, ethics and democracy profes­sor Don Wycliff, a graduate of Notre Dame who currently serves as the public editor af the Chicago Tri-bune, said the University has made great strides 
"[Notre Dame] is now
since he first ing substantial arrived on approaching the goals steps towards campus in making Notre
established so l(lte in 
1965. Dame more
its history, and it will, 
"When diverse than it first came to I trust, fulfill the task once was," Notre Dame, Mathews said.
in the years 
there were "The presence of
immediately ahead.,
nine black such groups as students in Sustained my class -Father Theodore Hesburgh Dialogues, which and that was bring a diverse
University President 
more black group of people
Emeritus
students than were in any other class," he said. "We felt marooned, even though professors and other students often went out of their way to mentor and befriend. I still give praises to some of my professors ­Walter Nicgorski, Edward Goerner, Frank O'Malley, John Kromkowski and others ­who went out of their way for me." 
Iris Outlaw. director of Multicultural Student Programs and Services, agreed the atmosphere at Notre Dame has improved since she has been here. 
ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cuisine 

........~~----~~i~~~------­
Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. mui Mon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
.......,-----·~~-----· We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawou~, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Taboul~ Meat Pie, Spinach Pie and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie W(o/ North (574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN46637 We are located in Roseland area. near Pendle Road on 3 I 

INCOME TAX PREPARATION 
Daniel F. Osberger, CPA & MBA Call to Meet at Your Campus Office or Home W: 246-1165 C: 514-7453 OASIS FINANCIAL SERVICES Osberger Accounting Solutions & Investment Services 
203 S. Ironwood Drive South Bend, IN 46556 E-mail: Dan.Osberger@Comcast.Net 
"More majority students understand that it is impera­tive to expand their critical thought process," she said. "This cannot occur in a homo­geneous environment. Like­ness breeds sameness." 
Outlaw pointed out there is a willingness to understand racial issues on campus, which hasn't always existed. 
"The fact that courses taught by professors Richard Pierce, Al[vin] Tillery and oth­ers who teach courses addressing ethnicities and perspectives other than Western, have outstanding waiting lists or have had to add additional [teaching assis­tants]. speaks to the students' respect for their scholarship," she said. 
Senior Marissa Mathews, a resident assistant in Cavanaugh Hall, said she feels even during her four years at Notre Dame, things have changed for the better. 
"There is a slightly more 
diverse student 
body, and the 
University is tak­
together to talk 
about issues such 

as race, speaks to this change. It may be a small change, but it is a start." Improvement slow task 
Despite the strides the University has made, diversity issues remain. Current University statistics show minority students make up about 21.5 percent of the 2004 class, 4.5 percent of whom are blacks. These num­bers lag behind national data on the U.S. minority popula­tion. According to the U.S. Census Bureau, in 2000, approximately 30 percent of the population defined them­selves as ethnic minority, with about 12 percent being African-American. Looking at the numbers alone, it is clear that more work needs to be done to create a diversified campus reflective of the national popu)ation. 
Wycliff suggested race rela­tions at Notre Dame might be better if the University hadn't fired football coach Tyrone Willingham. Willingham, the first black head coach in any sport at Notre Dame, was fired in late November after his third season. His dismissal came as a shock to a number of students and faculty on campus, and many blacks took his firing as a personal blow. 
Looking beyond football, Outlaw said creating more dialogue about understanding race would be one way of achieving the goal of improv­ing race relations on campus. 
"It is not enough to attend Blak Images, Black Koffee­house or other ethnic events, although for some this is a monumental starting point," she said. "The [aforemen­tioned] courses, Sustained Dialogue, Interrace and the Learning to Talk about Race retreats provide an initial forum, but it is up to the University and students to ensure that these conversa­tions continue in the residence 
halls,  dining  halls  and  
throughout the campus."  
Mathews  agreed  with  
Outlaw.  

"More dialogue is needed," she said, "so people are aware of how minority and majority students feel about diversity at this school and realize how this issue affects our everyday lives." 
Hesburgh said he was confi­dent about the future of racial acceptance at Notre Dame. 
"[Notre Dame] is now approaching the goals estab­lished so late in its history, and it will. I trust, fulfill the task in the years immediately ahead," he said. "We are grateful to so many people who have created scholarships for black candidates and are enormously proud of our black graduates and current black students, who are most wel­come here." 
Even with such progress. the road to total success is a slow one, said Hesburgh, para­phrasing Robert Frost: "We still have promises to keep, and miles ·to go before we sleep, and miles to go before we sleep." 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 

Announcing the Year  
2005 Annual Awards of  
~-~  the Albert Ravarino  
Italian Studies Travel  
Scholarship 
~  

Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Snu..lics Program 
is pleased to announce the year 2005 annual competition for travel in support of summer research and foreign !-ltudy in ILaly. Grants \\'Ill be made 111 amounts not to cxcccU 
$3,0£X), and will not normally cover all expense...;. Noti·c Dame graUuatc and 
unUcrgraJuatc students who arc planmng to pursue rcscan:h or a lormal prngram ol 
summer study tn hal); arc im'Jlctl to apply. Student!" must ha\'e cornpletetl at lea't one year of llalian language. The course \\'ork will normall) be 1n hallan, will mvol\'e the ~o.autly of Italian language, htcmture. anJ culture; anJ must be applicable to u student's degree progrum at the University of Notre Dame. 
Rccommentletl pro~rams for foreign study mdudc. but arc not ltmlled to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston Umvcrsity m Padua. UCLA 1n Pisa, Mtamt Umversll~ m Urbino, Columbia Umvcrsity in Scamliano. lntercstcLI stuLicnts arc encouraged to consult the matenals on I talmn foretgn study in the Department of Romo.mt:e Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students ure 10\'lted to ~ubmll a letler whtch should Jllclude· 
I) an explanation of hm'l.' the proposed research or foretgn study will enhance thetr degree program at Notre Dame 
2) a personal statement tm.hcming thetr background, tntercsts, and long-term goals 
3) a description or the research project or the program the) llltend to follow 
4) a budget indicating the costs tnvolved 
5) the names of two references. 

Application Deadline: Monday, February 21", 2005 Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall University or Notre Dame 


Retreat 
continued from page 1 
experience, Zimlich said a retreat like this can help students better understand their beliefs. 
"I just know -at least for me -it was a struggle to be Catholic and gay at first," Zimlich said, "but learning about my faith with respect to my sexuality really helped bridge the two." 
Andy Magee. another stu­dent organizer and first­time participant, agreed with Zimlich about the retreat's importance. 
"Being gay at a Catholic institution presents a lot of problems," Magee said. "This retreat provides a forum to discuss those prob­lems." 
Magee said the concept of the retreat was not much different from those held for women or Latinos. for example -they all cater to a specific set of needs for a particular group of stu­dents. 
While the retreat will have a Catholic perspective, Magee said no one will be forced to participate in the retreat's traditionally Catholic aspects, such as Mass. 
"There is an element of Catholicism. but at the same time we realize a lot of peo­ple coming on this retreat may not be Catholic. or [may] have issues about Catholicism." 
The religious purpose of the retreat, according to Magee, is that "you may be gay, but you can find a place in the Catholic Church if you want to." 
However, Magee stressed a welcoming attitude. 
"We're not going to cram Catholicism down their throats," he said. 
Magee also noted all stu· dents are welcome, whether gay, lesbian, bisexual, ques­tioning or straight. 
Tami Schmitz, campus minister and coordinator of the retreat, said, "I think any time we can give stu­dents a time to reflect, a chance to think about what's important to them, is awesome." 
Schmitz, who has been involved in coordinating two other GLB retreats. said that she feels many partici­pants are looking to grow deeper in faith on the retreat. 
"For those who are strug­gling, the retreat is a really good place to talk things out, figure out what's going on in the hearts and minds of this community," Schmitz said. 
Both Magee and Schmitz said that the retreat began eight years ago wheri Campus Ministry came to the Standing Committee for Gay and Lesbian Student Needs asking for sugges­tions on how to help. 
"The retreat was a pas­toral response to the gay and lesbian community to offer something positive for their experience at Notre Dame," Schmitz said. 
As of Thursday, 11 stu­dents had signed up for the retreat, according to Schmitz, who said that past retreats have included any­where from 12 to 25 stu­dents. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 






ORLD & NATION 
l;riday, February 4, 2005 CoMPILED FROM TriE 0f>SERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Russia dismisses cease-fire report 
MOSCOW -Hussian and Chechen officials dismisst~d a n~ported reb1~l announcement of a unilall~ral cease-fire as a bluff Thursday, whiiP rumors swirled that militant leader Shanlil Basayev was killed in a clash with fon~ign mnrcenarios. 
1\ llritish TV channel, meanwhile, went alwad with a broadcast of a taped interview with Basayev on Thursday night. drawing a furious n~hukn from Hussia. 
"We ]Wrcniv«~ such an action as the latest step in informational support of terrorists active in tlw North Caucasus," the Foreign Ministry said in a statement. 
Iraqi returns show Shiite lead 
BA<;IID/\D, Iraq -Iraqi oflicials Thursday rPI«~asod tlw first partial returns from national elt~ctions, showing a commanding !Pad by candidates backed by the Shiite Muslim dergy. Sunni insurgents unleashed a wave of attacks. killing at least 29 people, including two U.S. Marines and a dozen Iraqi army rncruits. 
Meanwhile, election officials said strict security IIH~asures may have deprived many Iraqis in tlw Mosul area and surrounding Ninnvah province of their right to vote. The admission is likely to fuel complaints by Iraq's minority Sunni Arabs, who make up the heart of the insurgency. that they were not mpresented in the vote. 
Tlw results released by the election com­mission four days after Sunday's balloting eanw from Baghdad and live provinces in the southern Shiite heartland. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Bush seeks Social Security support 
FAHGO, N.D. -Facing stiff resistance, President Bush· began searching state-by­state for support for his plan to overhaul Social Security and conceded Thursday that not all lawmakers believe the program has a serious problem. 
"The math doesn't work," Bush insisted, saying Social Security would pay out more money than it brought in beginning in 2018. "And in 2042. it's bust," he said. That's the year in which the system would be able to cover only about 73 percent of benefits owed unless it is chartged, according to Social Seeurity trustees. 
U.S. withdraws tsunami relief 
/\BOAHD TilE USS ABRAHAM LINCOLN -The U.S. aircraft carrier that led a mas­sive tsunami relief operation steamed away from the disaster zone Thursday after a mission that helped repair America's bruised image in the world's most heavily populated Muslim nation. 
The USS Abraham Lincoln, with a crew of 5.:wo. formed the core of the largest for­eign military deployment in the area and the most extensive U.S. operation in Southeast Asia since the Vietnam War. Ilelicoptors from the ship flew hundreds of missions to deliver food, water and other aid along the devastated western coast of the Indonesian island of Sumatra. 
Its departure was the single biggest drawdown of the American relief effort. 
LOCAL NEWS 
New 24-hour Starbucks opens 
KOKOMO -A central Indiana Starbucks has become one of only a handful around the country to stay open 24 hours a day. 
The location of the Kokomo store along 
U.S. 31 the main route between South Bend and Indianapolis and the number of area companies with third shifts were the reasons for the late night hours, Starbucks regional manager Keith Stewart said. 
The store began its extended hours Monday. "There is one in Houston and two in Chicago that I know of," Stewart said. 


U.N. investigates oil-for-food 
Annan disciplines director Sevan for "undermining integrity" of program 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS 
Secretary-General Kofi 
Annan ordered disciplinary 
action against the head of 
the U.N. oil-for-food pro­
gram in Iraq on Thursday, 
after a report sharply criti­
cized Benon Sevan for 
"undermining the integri­
ty" of the United Nations 
through a "grave con!1ict 
of interest." 

The investigation report 
said Sevan solicited oil 
allocations from Saddam 
llussein's regime on behalf 
of a trading company 
between 1998 and 2001, 
and it raised concerns he 
may have received kick­
backs for the help. 

Based on the report, 
Annan has decided to dis­
cipline Sevan and another 
U.N. official. Joseph Stephanides, who was chief of the U.N. Sanctions Branch, said Mark Malloch Brown, Annan's new chief of staff. Brown said the type of disciplinary action would be announced early next week but gave no details. 
In its report released Thursday, the investigation Jed _by former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker accused Stephanides of "tainting" bidding for a contract. Stephanides now heads the Chairman, which Hyde The report did not say allocations, certainly Security Council Affairs heads, is one of several Sevan received kickbacks, thought they were buying Division in the U.N. congressional committees but expressed concern at influence." Department of Political investigating the program. $160,000 in cash that he The report said Sevan's Affairs. Despite Sevan's claims said he received from his solicitations on AMEP's 
Allegations of corruption that he never recommend­aunt in his native Cyprus behalf "presented a grave in the $60 billion oil-for­ed any oil companies, from 1999-2003. The and continuing conflict of food program -which Volcker's Independent report questioned this interest, were ethically allowed sanctions-bound Inquiry Committee said it "unexplained wealth," not­improper, and seriously Iraq to sell oil to buy had evidence that Sevan ing that his aunt, who undermined the integrity humanitarian supplies -asked Iraq to give a small recently died, was a of the United Nations." have raised steady criti­Swiss-based oil company. retired Cyprus government Asked whether the com­cism from members of African Middle East photographer living on a mittee found any criminal Congress. Petroleum Co. Ltd. Inc., modest pension. wrongdoing, Volcker said. 
"I am reluctant to con­known as AMEP, the "The most disturbing "We are not a criminal tri­clude that the U.N. is dam­opportunity to buy oil. The finding is· the accumulation bunal. Other people will aged beyond repair, but company received the allo­of evidence that the execu­have to draw conclusions these revelations certainly cations and earned $1.5 tive director of the pro­from the facts that we have point in this direction," million from them. gram Benon Sevan did in presented." said Illinois Republican Volcker's panel said it is fact solicit oil allocations He said Sevan had not Henry Hyde after still investigating "the for a small trading compa­been entirely cooperative Thursday's report. The scope and extent of bene­ny," Volcker said at a news and had not responded to House International fits" that Sevan received conference. "The Iraqis, interview requests in a Helations Committee for his requests. who were assigning such timely way. 

Gonzales confirmed attorney general 
. Gonzales will replace John Hispanic-Americans." he said in
Associated Press 
Ashcroft, who won more Democratic English. 
WASIIINGTON -Alberto Gonzales support four years ago despite con­Democrats praised Gonzales as won Senate confirmation Thursday as tentious stances on a number of well, but many said they eouldn 't look attorney general despite Democratic issues. Eight Democrats voted for past his participation in administra­accusations that he helped formulate Ashcroft, while six voted for tion policies they said had led to White House policies that led to over­Gonzales. abuses that occurred in Iraq, seas prisoner abuse and was too Republicans and some Democrats Afghanistan and Guantanamo Bay, beholden to President Bush to be the praised Gonzales' life story: the Cuba. They also complained that he nation's top law enforcement official. grandson of Mexican immigrants who refused to answer their questions on 
The Senate voted 60-36 to put the worked his way up to being President how those policies were created first Hispanic ever into the job, with Bush's top lawyer in the White House. inside the White House. all of the "no" votes coming from Sen. Mel Martinez, R-Fla., the first "Mr. Gonzales was at the heart of Democrats and Democratic.-leaning Cuban-American senator, even broke the Bush administration's notorious Independent Jim Jeffords of Vermont. with Senate tradition and praised decision to authorize our forces to Last week, 12 Democrats and Jeffords Gonzales in Spanish on the Senate commit flagrant acts of torture in the voted against Secretary of State floor on Wednesday. "This is a break­interrogation of detainees," said Sen. Condoleezza Rice's confirmation. through of incredible magnitude for Edward Kennedy, D-Mass. 
Friday, February 4, 2005 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Board 
continued from page 1 
"We should give [students] the opportunity ... We aren't doing a good enough job if we have to expand classes and turn away diversity educators," Garcia said. 
Baron spoke mostly about het­erosexism at Notre Dame and the "invisible minority," adding that homosexuals have an "unwelcom­ing sense [that] they don't have a place here." 
Baron said Notre Dame perpet­uates this feeling through its Frosh-0 activities and dorm dances that solely emphasize het­erosexual relationships. Baron added that a distinction must be made between homosexual orien­tation and homosexual acts, stat­ing there is wide confusion over this Church teaching throughout Notre Dame. 

"As a Catholic university we have a responsibility to under­stand the other," Baron said. 
Bell focused her presentation primarily on sexism at Notre Dame and said women and men are treated unequally. She cited an example of inequality where men are allowed to conduct semi­annual "bun runs" but women were told they would be repri­manded if they conducted a simi­lar run in their underwear. 
"Women are treated like chil­dren, but expected to act like adults," Bell said. 
She added that in the class­room, certain male professors will selectively disregard a female stu­dent's responses. However, she clarified this could be due to the fact the professor was from a for­eign country or the ratio of men to women was high in his depart­ment. 
Bell said this "atmosphere of sexism" varies across depart­ments at Notre Dame, but empha­sized certain departments needed more female role models as pro­fessors. 
At the conclusion of the presen­tation Baron emphasized address­ing diversity at Notre Dame should be one of the University's primary goals. 
"We're talking about changing a culture here," Baron said. "And that takes years ... We want to create a Notre Dame where everyone can feel welcomed." 
The trustees responded very positively to the report. A 1996 Notre Dame graduate that was present for the report said a pres­entation on the topic of this nature would have been unprece­dented in his time at Notre Dame. 
The Observer has a policy of not attributing information or quotes to specific members of the Board. 
The trustee added the fact that two of the three presenters, Baron and Bell, were members of the majority student population spoke volumes for how seriously the student body and its leaders regard this topic. 
Another trustee implored the student government leaders to work actively with the Office of Student Affairs to explore avenues for utilizing University resources to fund additional diversity programs. 
Bell drew on student govern­ment's research to answer one trustee, who asked the leaders to put the report in context. He asked if issues of diversity are more difficult to overcome at Notre Dame than in society in general and if diversity problems at Notre Dame are being handled properly. 
"In the focus groups [student government conducted]," Bell responded, "a lot of people expressed that it is more diflicult here than at home." 
Baron added Notre Dame is making efforts to counteract diversity issues, but noted due to the upcoming presidential transi­tion and recent diversity-focused 
events, now is the time for the 
University to recommit to diversi­
ty. 
A trustee said the issue of diver­. sity is a topic that generates dis­
cussion amongst the entire board, 
and applauded student govern­
ment for having the courage to 
make the report. 
Another trustee implored the 
students to make increasing 
diversity a permanent platform in 
student government especially 
since the dynamics and aware­
ness of the Notre Dame student 
body are ever-evolving. 
The meeting concluded with a trustee suggesting that student government identify some of the "diversity success stories" as role models and explore whether spe­cific committees would more acutely direct the focus of improv­ing diversity. 
Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
"I think you have a lot of opportunities that are wide open for a lot of fun tweaking and growing," Nance said. 
Some of that "tweaking," should include a more pointed applicant search using the help of extensive data, said Nance. Inquiries should be ranked in terms of their inter­est in the institution and the need for a better use of finan­cial resources. Admissions offices waste money on travel­ing to college fairs and high schools when they could be contacting potential applicants in other ways, said Nance. According to Nance, inviting high schools students and guidance counselors to visit campus is a more efficient way to draw students to the College. 

"[As admissions officers, you] need to know what your students are choosing you for 
probability that they will_ and you need to put your apply. Admissions counselors money there," Nance said. can then direct their energies "Your institution has to look toward pursuing the students good. You are competing with the highest potential. against a lot of funding out 
"Four percent of inquiries there." result in applicants [at Saint However, the size of the Mary's]," Nance said. "That's budget isn't always every­not high enough. I am doing thing, she said. 17 to 20 percent." "Sometimes it is not about 
Nance also emphasized the how many resources but what 
you do with [them]," she said. "I have worked at [institu­tions] where we didn't know if we were even going to open the next day." 
College admissions has become a highly-personalized experience, Nance said, and Saint Mary's needs to respond to that. There are programs now that customize to each individual applicant. Every e­mail, flier and phone call should give students a person­al feel. 
"The challenge is to demon­strate at every point of the process personalized educa­tional opportunities," she said. 
The families of college appli­cants today are very involved in the search and selection, said Nance. Admissions coun­selors must recognize the traits of the generation they are trying to appeal to. 
"I think people of this gener­ation are looking for character education; their parents cer­tainly are," said Nance. "They are looking for value educa­tion. This is the first genera­tion that said it's fine to wear a school uniform." 
The top position in the admissions office at the col­lege opened up in the fall after then-admission director Mary Pat Nolan announced she would be stepping down at the end of the semester. 
Saint Mary's struggled last year to reach its recruiting goals. The current freshman class is 50 students smaller than the average. Interim director Mona Bowe has said the college is on course to receive its target of 1,000 applicants this year. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 



~~ ··1-.()f'SI -~~1 T• .)J·l..l r)lf..lu -~· ')J.l(-t(·J.l <...:.11-•l o·o
.L·\L .. . ~-... ( .. .. . .... \; ...A ... _.· J . ~) ..( -n'-· 



OTHELLO 
by William Shakeqeare 
Friday, February 11 and Saturday, February 12 Both performances at 7:30p.m. 
Leighton Concert Hall 
Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts General Public $18.00 • SeniorsiND Faculty/Staff $16 • All Students $12 
Tickets av<,~ilable at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center ticket office. MasterCard and Visa orders accepted. Call 631·2800. 
The Actors residency' is supported •n part by the Henkels Lectur'Ol Series. 
r±:Jl!NIVER"TYOf ~;?''\)DEBARTOlOwNorRE nAME y,EP.fORMNG4RrscrNTER 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Friday, February 4, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
10,593.10 -3.69

}ones 
.I+. Up: 1,528  Same: 182  Down: •  Composite 1,552,893,952  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSE S&PSOO  l ,450.64 2,057.64 7,148.32 l, 189.89  +1.24 -17.42 -21.07 -3.30  

NIKKEI(fokyo) 11,360.40 -28.95 FTSE I nnrfol'l) 4,908.30 -7.90 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -3.47 -0.63 JDS UNIPHASE CP UDSU) -1.49 -0.03 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -1.06 -0.28 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.56 +0.23 5-YEAR NOTE + 1.08 +0.40 37.5 3-MONTH SILL -1.06 -0.26 24.3 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.24 46.4 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) -4.50 418.5 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.08 90.9 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 04.3 EURO 0.770 POUND 0.531 CANADIAN$ 1.229 
IN BRIEF 
Jurors view Scrushy video 
BIHMINGIIAM. Ala. -Another former top 
llnalthSouth Corp. executive was indicted 
Thursday for what prosecutors say was his 
part in massive fraud as jurors at Hichard 
Scrushy's trial watclwd a video of the former 
CEO 1~xhorting, cajoling and warning hun­
drmls of employees at a 1998 meeting. 
In a DVD recording played on a big screen 
rwar the witness stand. Scrushy excitedly 
talked about management's "incredible con­
trol" of rehabilitation chain HealthSouth and 
his own close watch over the company's 
financns and expenses. 
"With the new budget team we have we are so tight," Scrushy said in the meeting, held in Orlando. Fla., for managers of hundreds of medical centers operated by llealthSouth nationwide. Prosecutors say llealthSouth's books were awash that year in more than $(,()() million worth of fraud ordered by Scrushy. 
Trump bankruptcy progresses 
CAMDEN, N.J. -A judge dealt another favorable hand to Trump Hotels & Casino Hr.sorts on Thursday, giving final approval to a $100 million "debtor in possession" loan and setting a date for a confirmation hearing that would formally end the company's Chapter 11 case. 
Fending off objections from shareholders. 
U.S. Bankruptcy .I udge Judith Wizmur approved the loan by Dallas-based Beat Bank, without which Donald Trump's three Atlantic City casinos would have had to shut down for lack of cash. according to Trump lawyers. 
The money. $36 million of which has already been drawn down by the company, is paying salaries, vendors and other operating r.xpnnses as Trump llotels moves toward the confirmation hearing scheduled to begin March 29. 
Aftnr months of negotiations with bondhold­nrs. Trump llotels filed for bankruptcy court protnction Nov. 21 with a prepackaged plan that calls for the bondholders to take control of the company but Trump to stay on as chairman and CEO. 
Utility unveils new Enron data 
Fallen energy giant's power scams began years before 2000-01 power crunch 
Associated Press 
EVERETT. Wash. 
Fallen energy giant Enron 
Corp. was running scams 
to drive up the cost of 
power years before the 
2000-01 West Coast energy 
crisis, according to audio 
transcripts and documents 
unveiled Thursday by a 
public utility north of 
Seattle. 
By November 1947. Enron apparently knew of loopholes in California's ill­advised dnregulation plan, and by May 1998 -a month after the plan took effect Enron was already falsifying transmis­sion schedules to inflate prices, Snohomish County Public Utility District of'fi­cials said Thursday as they unveiled new evidence at a news conference. 
The utility in Everett, about 30 miles north of Seattle, obtained much of its most recent evidence in one of Enron's Houston warehouses and has been using its meager resources to transcribe thousands of hours of phone conversa­tions involving Enron traders -a job it says should have been done by federal regulators long ago. 

The district is hoping to prove that an exorbitant contract it entered with Tim Belden's computer of Enron. Though unrelat­1998 inter·nal Enron memo Enron in January 20()1, at referring to loopholes in ed to the trading allega­between energy tradnrs the height of the crisis. California's soon-to-be tions, the partnership's that refers to a "PIIONY should be considered implement power deregu­creation was one of the import." The notP also says fraudulent because of lation plan. Belden pleaded first steps toward similar California's ind1~pendent Enron's manipulation, and guilty in October 2002 to financial moves to hide system operator "will call that the utility shouldn't wire fraud for participating debt and inflate profits that and tell us we'rp out of bal­have to pay the $122 mil­in trading schemes to game fueled Enron's downfall in ance. so tell them WI' lion that Enron claims it the California market. 1\vo 2001. intend to correct the imbal­owes. other former Enron The utility first released ance in the 'hour-ahead' 
The material the utility traders. Jeffrey Richter transcripts of Enron trader market. In fact, we really released Thursday is the and John Forney, later conversations last year that intend to do NOTIIING ... " first evidence that Enron pleaded guilty to similar showed they openly dis­By keeping power trans­appears to have been hon­charges. cussed manipulating the mission imbalanced, Enron ing its fraudulent trading 1997 also was the year California power market increased the price of elec­schemes well before rolling former Enron finance chief and joked about stealing tricity and thus its own blackouts darkened Andrew Fastow created the from grandmothers during profit. California and drove up company's first off-bal­the power crisis.. Also in 1998, Belden prices, helping Enron make ance-sheet partnership to Conversations that involve wrote to a supervisor as at least $1.6 billion. funnel millions of dollars in Forney, Belden and Hichter part of a performance 
The Snohomish County kickbacks to Fastow. The appeared throughout those review: "California gaming utility found a November partnership was wrongly transcripts. -we always say that we 1997 e-mail on Portland, portrayed to investors and Documents released need to increase this activi­Ore.-based Enron trader regulators as independent Thursday include a May ty, yet we never do." 

Worker background checks increase 
those polled saying they always do procedures include standardiz1~d 

Associated Press 
such a screening. But 68 percent of questions, designed to gatlwr tlw 

NEW YOHK-Employers, increas­those surveyed said their firms same type of information about all ingly security conscious and wary of always run criminal records checks candidates while avoiding subjects making mistakes in hiring, have on applicants, and another 13 per­like race or marital status to protect stepped up reference checks and cent say they sometimes perform against later charges of discrimina­background screening of job appli­such checks, according to the sur­tion in hiring. cants, according to a new survey. vey. Applicants for management jobs 
In the survey of personnel officers, Heightened concerns about securi­receive the most scrutiny -86 per­released Thursday by the Society for ty are driving some of the increased cent to 89 percent of those surveyed Human Resource Management, 96 screening, according to the survey. indicated they always run checks on percent said their companies con­About one in five of those surveyed people being considered for dill'crent duct some type of background or said their companies have added or tiers of management jobs. Eighty­reference check on people applying updated screening practices as a three percent said they always run for job openings. direct result of the 2001 terrorist some type of check on applicants for 
The most common check by com­attacks. salaried. non-managr.mnnt jobs and panics is a verification of an appli­Employers also are acting as a 7 5 percent said they scn~en pnoplP cant's legal right to work in the legal precaution. More than eight in being considered f'or hourly posi­United States, with 85 percent of 10 of those surveyed say their check tions. 
page 8 Friday, February 4, 200'5
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS 

Rice criticizes Iran, calls Iraq vindicated 
Secretary of State starting first abroad visit 

AP Recently approved Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice greets President Bush after his State of the Union address Wednesday. 
Associated Press to encourage peace talks 
between the Israelis and 
Palestinians. 
LONDON -Iran's approach Rice planned to meet on to human rights and its treat­Friday with British Prime ment of its own citizens is Minister Tony Blair and Foreign loathsome, Secretary of State Secretary Jack Straw. In stops Condoleczza Hice said in Berlin later Friday and Paris Thursday. next week, she may run into 
While saying Iranians deserve war opposition that still lingers. better leaders than "unelected Iraq's elections for a national mullahs," America's new chief assembly "clearly remind us diplomat stopped short or why we worked to liberate the d•)manding their ouster. Iraqi people from that terrible 
At the start of her llrst trip dictator," Hice said. abroad since succeeding Colin Acknowledging that "we all Powell at the State Department, know that it's been difficult in Rice also told reporters that Iraq," Rice said she still would last weekend's election in Iraq "trade anytime" the stability vindicates the U .S.-led toppling offered under Saddam's rule for of Iraqi leader Saddam the self-determination prom­Hussein. ised by the election. 
The invasion was broadly "It should just. remind us all unpopular in many of the that those of us who had the European capitals that Rice will good fortune to live on the right visit over the next week. A side of freedom's divide have an 
Watergate reporters' notes open 
Woodward and Bernstein's famous scribbles ready for public review 
exhibit of hastily-jotted notes, an undisclosed location in 
diagrams drawn on. notebook Washington until the source's 
AUSTIN, Texas -While the paper and transcripts of inter­death. identity of "Deep Throat" is views and photographs of While the identities of sevnr­still a well-guarded secret, the some of the prominent players al dozen sources remain con­first installment of notes and in the story, the reportt~rs said fidential, nearly l 00 -all quotes scribbled by the public should bn given a now dnceased -an~ disrlosPd Washington Post rnportnrs chance to scrutinize tlwir in th•• l'irst installmPnt ol' Bob Woodward and Carl work thnw dnradns later. notes. Bernstein while covering tlw Woodward and Bernstein, Tlw l'i rst rP lease from 75 Watergate scandal arc now then 29 and 28, rcsp•~ctivPly. boxes of' matPrials show that available to the wen~ the first senior Hepublicans and some public. reportnrs to of' Nixon's closest aid•~s shared 
Associated Press 
"We told this story 
"We told the establish th () with the n~porters their suspi­story from our from our perspective connnction cions about the prnsident's perspective as between Nixon role in thn cover-up and th••ir
the best we could. " 
well as we aides and the concerns ovnr his mental could. Other June 1972 stat«'. people should Carl Bernstein break-in at the Snnator Barry Goldwater. have a look at reporter Democratic rnfnrrnd to as thn "con­the stuff," National scinnce" of the Hnpublican 
Bernstein said Headquarters Party at tlH~ limn, told the Thursday at the University of in Washington's Watergate reportnrs lw thought Nixon Texas' !larry Hansom complex. was "ofT his lwad." Humanities Research Center, Nixon, who faced almost­Other major sources id•~nti­which purchased the materi­certain impeachment by the lied in the first relnase of doc­als for $5 million in 2003. House and conviction in the uments were the president's 
Under a deal with the Senate for his role in the scan­two principal Watergate reporters, the Hansom Center dal, resigned in lawyers. J. Fred is responsible for cataloguing August 1974. Buzhardt and and preparing the documents Forty govern­.James D. St.
"After a day or 
for public release. They will ment officials Clair.
two, you could see
be made public for the first and members of In 42 pages of time Friday. Nixon's re-elec­it was going to be a typed notes of Self-described "pack rats" tion committee Pight interviews,
really important 
who kept dozens of boxes of were indicted Buzhardt
story."
mat()rials, Woodward and and convicted on describnd how Bernstein said thny were fPlony chargns. Nixon was ••va­nwticulous about saving notes Ultirnatnly, tlw Carl Bernstein sivP PVI'II ""ith from their rnporting for The materials at the his lawyers.
reporter
Washington Post that exposed Hansom Cnnter "liP is orw loi'J a conspiracy to disrupt the will include the most trans­11)72 presidential election. more than 250 pocket-sized parent Imen I I know; LIH• Their reporting won the notebooks, memos, story worst liars .... he would pull Pulitzer Prize. drafts. clippings, movie manu­my leg and I could tPil." "After a day or two, you scripts, photographs and Buzhardt told the reporters. could sec it was going to be a memorabilia. "A detailed examination of really important story," Any documents that could who Richard Nixon really Bernstein said. reveal the fabled "Deep was," Woodward said. "That's Taking a brief tour of an Throat" will be kept secure at what Watergate was about." 
Ifvou can dodge a wrench... 11 vou can dodge tranic.... 
lor even uvou can·u 
then vou can help dodge multiple sclerosis. 
major goal of Hice's trip is to shift the subject in Europe toward the possibility of Middle East peace and other mutual goals. 
"I don't think anybody thinks that the unclccted mullahs who run that regime arc a good thing for the Iranian people and for the region," Rice said en route to London, her first stop. ller itinerary includes visits to Jerusalem and the West Bank obligation to those who are left on the other side of freedom's divide to try to achieve their aspirations," Rice said. 

On that point, she said, even those who "disagree about what we did or when we did it," can unite. 
"I don't think there's anyone in Europe or anyplace else that thinks that the Iraqi people deserved Saddam Hussein," Rice said. 

·.·.·.·. . ...·· / ..· /i ·.·.·.·.··················.•.·.·.·.····· .·.·.·.·.··.·.·.···· .. ·····.·.········ . //i
Act One, Inc. is now accepting applications for its Summer 2005 Entertainment Internship & Executive Training Program. Are you a proven high-achiever who is passionate about movies and about your faith? Are you ready to interact with high-level executives in.the most intense 12 · weeks of your life? Apply online today. ActOneProgram.com Deadline: Aprill 
act one 
EXECUTIVE 
PROGRAM 

Noon -5pm at Stepan Center Admission is free! Donations Accepted 
the class of 2006, 2007 and WVFI 

Friday, February 4, 2005 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
and plugging the video on his Web site that he claimed to be
Debate 
"life-changing." 
continued from page 1 White and Powers took a 
different approach, marketing 
for its potential to draw the benefits of their height in 
passers-by into the action. the event of low-lying fog, 
The rumbling of food carts, and their plans to communi­
chatter of stud1mts and dras­cate with the ghost of the 
tically l'luctuating crowd -Gipper with a Ouija Board 
swnlling to near 100 at the and provide him companion­
beginning, but dwindling to ship with ritual freshman sac­
an approximate 30 by the rifices. 
closing statements -made The six student-provided 
the situation less than ideal questions raised the issues of 
for the speakers at times, but the possible club status of 
the candidates proceeded AllianceND, gender issues on 
dnspite the distractions. campus, Notre Dame's "cul­
Supervised by the Judicial ture of life" and candidate 
Council. the debates followed experience, as well as to what 
a familiar format of opening the candidates perceived to 
and closing statements from be students' number one con­
each ticket, with six randomly cern, and how they planned 
drawn student questions to fight apathy. 
answered by all the candi­Despite Marra-Harig's cryp­
dates in turn stuck in tic answer of "if you've seen 
between. our video, you 
The common know where thread pulled "Looking around. we stand on throughout the homosexuality
I'm confident that 

hour-long event on campus" 
was results no matter what
over and White­experience, as happens [in the Powers' deci­veteran student election], student sion to pass on 
government the question, •
government will be

nwmbnrs proudly all the tickets 
displayed their in good shape next expressed 
ar.compl ish ments. their support
year.

l11ss-tested candi­of Alliance-
dates pointed out ND's push for 
the shortcomings Dave Baron club status, as 
of the current presidential candidate well as those 
and former of other clubs 
administrations that promote 
and all six promised tangible diversity and discussion -an 
results if elected. idea brought up later in the 
The Mark Ilealy-Bob Costa "culture of lif'e" discussion. 
ticket emphasized its record In holding with their indi­
with programming -espe­vidual platforms, Healy-Costa 
cially Costa's connections pointed to better concerts as 
with big-name bands from his students' major concern; 
high school and reporting Brede-Hamanan said that it 
nxrwriences -and pledged was the little things, like 
"bntter concerts, better HOTC's Pass in Heview mov­
bands, better events." ing to South Quad and print­
Making achievable results ers in the dorms, that made 
tlw centmpiece of their plat­the difference; Baron­
form. the Craig Brede-Vijay Shappell outlined their plans 
Harnanan ticket focused on for a more accessible student 
plans for cheaper textbooks government; Leito-Bongio­
through NDBay, printers in vanni rallied for cable, wire­
t1vnry dorm and an online, less and printers in the 
aec1~ssible form of Teacher dorms; White-Powers spoke 
Course Eval-uation -all of in favor of women's suffrage; 
which they and ·Marra­
claimnd to bn Harig offered 
morn feasibl1~ Ecto-Cooler as 
than their oppo­the solution to
"You're not going to

IWnts' promises. student needs. "You're not get a rousing speech Solutions to 
going to get a or a sexy idea, just the problem of 
rousing speech student apathy
strong, sensible

or a sexy idea; ran the gamut, just strong, sen­leadership. " from the pro­sible lcmdership," posals for a Hamanan said. more open and
Vljay Ramanan

Dave Baron accountable
vice presidential

and Lizzi Sha­student gov­ppell focused on candidate ernment, visi­the concept of a ble results and $50,000 per year even the insti­concert endow-tution of a mnnt in their opening state­dress code. ment. as well as the "Catholic "We can't make students Think Tank" speaker series care, but we can make them Baron said would revitalize angry. So we'll institute a Notre Dam1~'s image as "the dress code to make people voice on social justice." angry," White said. "Then 
James Leito and Jordan we'II repeal it to give students Bongiovanni underscored what they want." what they perceived as the Appropriately, the evening d ifferenee bntwcen them­wrapped up with a question selves and the othljr candi­on candidates' experience, dates -passion for improving which made a smooth transi­studnnt life. tion into the candidates' final 
"You can literally see how , affirmation of the priority of Ill uch we passion we have by results in the closing state­the fact that we live more in ments. the student government oflice Baron offered an optimistic and administration ofl'ices note to close the debates. than our dorm rooms. Just "Looking around, I'm conO­ask our roommates," joked dent that no matter what Bongiovanni. happens [in the election]. stu­
Adding an element of levity dent government will be in to the evening were the Will good shape next year," he Marra-Pete llarig and Alec said. White-Erik Powers tickets. 
Marra kicked the debates off by ordering a number Contact Amanda Michaels at seven from the Burger King amichael@nd.edu 
monthly tuition board payments, ir cut, and grab 
0 
LaFortune nter! 


NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 021 LaFortune Student Center 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 



THE 0HSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, February 4, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
111' 1•"-P••""'· fJ<i/y '"'""P"t" Sm#•$1¥•"" P"ff!< molSid•t Morit 
P.O. Box 779,.Nouc D;uru:; IN 46556. ..iik '· 024 South Din.i\lg Hill, Notre O...mi: IN 16~ 56 .. i ? 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lo7Ar 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINEl!S MAroi:AGER Meghanne Downes Mike Fl:magan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR Joe Hetder 

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: SanihVabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden SCENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY's EpiTORl Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WER ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter 
CoNTROlLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl. INFO (574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu. VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports. J@nd.edu 
ScENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DeSK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectivelyas possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observ.erpolicies should be directed to Editor in Chief Matt Loza~ 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob.l·en·er {USPS 599 ),4(}(10) is pubfuhad Mlmd~y {hraugh F.{iday el(;(eptduriag e:am and vac:acion pCrioili:. A~uht-.:ripcion ro Th~Observer it $100 for oncaClldemk year; $SS for one i,em~tcr. ' 
The Ob:«:rver Upublished ac: i'OSTMASTER 1124 South Dining Hall Send adl.'l.reis oorteetioru-ro: Nouc Damt\ IN 46556.0779 The~~~trvtr Pcriodi;.:a.l po~~age raid at Nortt Dame P.O.Boxn9 IUld addirionalmailillg offi~. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notte Dame, IN 46556..0779 
The Ob:.erver .is a 1ncmhcr ofthe Am~ia{t:d Prell$. All tcprodut:(ion nghrs uc­rc~erved 

College mating rituals 
It is Halloween in South Bend and two nuns and a pumpkin are about to enter a space of intimacy and vulnera­bility. These costumed students are unknowingly taking part in an ama­teur sociological study. As a few hun­John lnfranca dred students gyrate, often a-rhythmically, . Dissident across the dank Poetry Heartland dance floor a mysterious group of graduate students lurk behind a veil of mist and shadows. The students' movements are observed and recorded by five individuals who, surprisingly enough, are not employed by Student Affairs. 
They are students of ritual studies, a discipline that draws on sociology, anthropology, theology and other fields to examine the nature of rituals. According to some, the emphasis in modern cultures on individual identity hinders our capacity for communal symbolic activity. Granted, it is rare that many of us join with our neigh­bors in what might stereotypically be considered ritual: the sacrificing of animals, dancing around fires or banging upon drums, While religious individuals attend services often replete with rituals, these can seem separate from "normal" life. Such life is, however, suffused with ritual: the rituals of preparing for our day, of cooking a meal and even of simple social interaction. For one tutored in the methodology of ritual observation and armed with such terms as "body­public," "weak grid," "positional fami­ly" and "liminality," even Heartland on a Thursday night can become "a cele­bration, marked by varied manifesta­tions of decorum and ritualization and which, for some, is transformed into a magical ritual." Allow me to explain. 
For many a trip to Heartland repre­sents anything but a formal ritual. It is considered a "night out," a way to release the pressures of rigid academ­ic life and engage in play. Yet the experience can be more formal than instinctual, defined by rules of deco­rum. It can also involve "ritual work" or "magic." Individuals perform cer­tain actions and dress in a certain way in the hope that following socially pre­scribed ritual behavior will cause the desired result, leading to a more inti­mate ritual. Others engage in the pub­lic ritual simply for celebration or "rit­ual play." Although they perform a part in the ritual they do not seek a particular result. Their joy is drawn from mere performance, conscious or unconscious. 
Space plays an important role in enhancing a ritual. Hence large crowds do not gather to dance in my garage on Thursdays. Heartland offers a "club" experience from the moment one enters the dark, mysterious alley leading to its door. Inside the central ritual space is demarcated by four large pillars. Smoke and lights add to the ambience, as do the video images of people dancing interspersed with ads for a steakhouse. These images offer what is termed "ritual instruc­tion," helping the uninitiated realize that proper ritual interaction involves both dancing and meat products. Away from the central ritual space, the dance floor, other locations pos­sess differing rules of ritual decorum. As my associates and I learned early on, it is unacceptable to take a clip­board and observe the dance floor from the raised platform bound with PVC piping directly across from the stage. 
Rather than an observation deck, the "cage" is a realm of performance. It represents a "de facto zone of inti­macy and vulnerability." The grid rules regarding personal space and physical interaction on the dance floor change dramatically when one enters the cage. This change is technically termed "grinding." A similar change occurs on the stage, where an individ­ual involved in the ritual becomes a "conscious· performer." Changes in rit­ual role occur frequently as spectators quickly become performers. 
The ritual typically begins when a group of about eight females form a circle in the center of the dance floor. Occasionally they are joined by one or two males. The males always have some kind of alcoholic beverage, a rit­ual prop, in their hands. This prop directs attention away from the indi­vidual. Soon other groups enter the dance floor, as well as the occasional couple. Eventually the first "infiltra­tor" (almost always male) enters the ritual field. They have up until this point acted in the role of spectator or voyeur, but now they become a per­former. Such role changes occur more frequently as the consumption of ritu­al props increases. The infiltration rit­ual typically involves an attempt to enter into some gap created in a circle of females. 
This sub-ritual represents a rather predictable fulfillment of gender stereotypes, the man acting as the hunter, often seeking out the lone female who has strayed -too far from the pack. At times it resembles a bad kung-fu movie, as one male after another approaches the target and is then repelled, allowing room for the next one to move in and face the same fate. 
This constant repetition represents a microcosm of the larger ritual, which also repeats itself weekly with minor alterations. Such is the nature of ritu­al: the ability to draw on timeless pat­terns of behavior as one encounters a world forever new. Hope springs eter­nal. 
John lnfranca is a theology graduate student. His column appears every other Friday. He can be reached at jin­franl@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY
News Sports Eileen Duffy Heather Van Claire Heininger Hoegarden What kind of discrimination do you feel Amanda Michaels Eric Retter is most prevalent at Notre Dame and Karen Langley Ryan Kiefer Saint Mary's? 
"Happiness and moral duty are 
Viewpoint Scene 

inseparably connected." 
a. Racism 15%Alyssa Christie Boisen b. Heterosexism 40% 
Brauweiler Illustrator 
c. Sexism 20% 

George Washington 
d. Other 25'Yr
Graphics Graham Ebetsch 
first president

Graham Ebetsch *Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on 415 responses. 

THE 08SERVER 



IEWPOINT
Friday, February 4, 2005 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Drinking Coke helps more than the com_pany 
As a stockholder in the Coca­Cola Company and a dedicated consumer of their flagship brand, I recognize that I'm not at all an unbiased defender of the corpo­ration. but I'm trying as hard as I can to understand the big fuss over the contest the company is running at Notre Dame. 
Should I be shocked -shocked -to find that there's a corpo­
ration out there that sand fruit orchards, wants to make a herds of cows and profit from con­fresh water lakes, sunwrs who are and they might free to choose be able to buy whether or not even more to buy. heaven after they get forbid, or their that this net $28,400)? profit will Can those amount to a who worship whole at the altar $28,400 for of Dionysian that multi­delight no billion dollar longer find company? solace at the Why, think of free fountain of all the terrible carbonation in things those men the Coleman­in Atlanta could do Morse Center? with that princely Drink Coke -it pockets and right into the 
machines, then quickly turn them 
right side up again so they can 
pour the 20 ounces right down 
their throats then and there! Is 
this forced consumption. from which there is no escape, 
because even in our dining halls 
there is no refuge to be found in juice. milk or water (because 
Coca-Cola owns several thou­


Saint Mary's wolllen respond to rulllors 
Saint Mary's women are husband hunters? Is that the term I read? I cannot believe that a student intelligent enough to go to a rigorous academic university would have the ignorance to assume that young women would choose a single sex school in order to meet men. Could I have misinterpreted the article ("Townies are people too" in the Feb. 1 edition of The Observer)? Sadly, I think not. Lets think this through, shall we? A student who can attend Saint Mary's can attend most of the higher educa­tion institutions in the country. If our goal during our col­lege years was to meet and marry a man. wouldn't we attend a school where we were integrated with the oppo­site sex in classes? 
As Saint Mary's students, we instead choose to focus on our academics in an environment tailored for the higher education of women. If Saint Mary's would have wanted to blend with Notre Dame, the merger of the two schools would have gone through when first proposed. Saint Mary's refused, and I know why. Look at the presidential tickets for student government. Any women running for president? I didn't see any. Vice presidential nomina­tions? I spotted a mere fourth were women. That is why we attend this school. It is not now, nor has it ever been the school across the street. I would love to hear the rationale behind this "myth" and how of all the myths dispelled, this one came out clean in the wash. 
I can assure you that from this side of the street, it is filthy. 
Emily Moynahan Saint Mary's College class of 2008 
Feb. 3 
enough to hire a new worker on 

the line or truck driver at one of their bottling plants. God help us if they use their profit for their college scholarship funds. I won­der how many baby seals $28,400 can club. We'll probably find out when the contest is over. 
llow terrible it is that Coca­Cola's sticky-fingered stooges will round students up on their way to elass. prod them down into a dark and dank dormitory base­mnnt, turn them on their heads so the quarters fall out of their 
Company ... and its employees ... and helps the charitable and philanthropic work the company does ... and supports this University ... and is appreciated by the investors, more than a couple of whom are forward­thinking, responsible middle­class citizens (and college stu­dents) just trying to save for the future. 
Will Seath 
junior 
Morrissey Manor 
Feb. 3 


Consider giving up m.eat for all of Lent 
Lent is coming up soon, and I would like to take this opportunity to share what I decided to try for Lent years ago that changed my life. I tried going vegetarian. Inrotead of just giving up meat on Fridays. I decided to revive the ancient tradition of abstaining from meat for all forty days. It gave me an opportunity to 
reflect on the suffering of the much lower cholesterol levels than innocent animals in factory meat-eaters, and heart disease farms and slaughterhouses, is uncommon in vegetarians. to improve my health, and Additionally, a vegetarian to help the environment. diet helps prevent cancer. What I learned during and an impressive num­those 40 days of Lent was ber of studies, dating shocking, and it changed back to the early 1920s, my life forever. show that vegetarians 
More than 26 billion have lower blood pres­animals are killed each sure than non-vegetari­year to satisfy Americans' ans. Now you may wonder appetites. The majority of how this applies to Lent. these animals are not raised on Lent is a time to empathize picturesque family farms, but in with Christ and be more receptive 
more land is required to feed a meat-eater than to feed a pure vegetarian. Additionally. factory farming uses a tremendous amount of water and is a primary contributor to the pollu­tion of waterways. 
Finally. I learned that the healthiest diet is a 
vegetarian diet. Vegetarians have 


Confused about Coca-Cola 
In the Feb. 3 edition ofThe Observer, sopho­mores Mary Lynch and Kathleen O'Brien wrote a letter expressing their disgust at the current campus competition put on by the Coca-Cola Corporation. In this competition, the dorms with the greatest number ofCoca-Cola pur­chases per resident receive cash prizes. Lynch and O'Brien never settle on a true complaint and deviate their way through the letter all the while misleading students. One aspect of the letter which they did get right is the fact the competition is a promotion aimed to bring more success than past campaigns. How this amounts to exploitation remains unclear. Lynch and O'Brien talk about the ills of society and how advertisements bombard us everywhere we look. If that is their true problem, then excuse the Coca-Cola Corporation for doing what every other company tries to do in pro­moting their product. Now I am just a lowly freshman, but I heard that there is an area of business that one can study at the Mendoza College of Business. It is called marketing, and a key aspect of marketing (so I've heard) is the advertisement and promotion of one's goods and services. Shame on Coca-Cola then, for coming up with a new and unique approach. 
The letter continues to condemn the promo­tion on campus. What Lynch and O'Brien rec­ognize as free advertising may be true, as the Coca-Cola name is certainly being mentioned. But the newspaper article, the blurb in Stall Notes (and in bold print no less-gasp!) and even the mention at Keough Hall Mass. were all meant to make students aware of the com­petition going on around campus. This is part of what The Observer and stall notes are meant for, to make students conscious of what is tak­ing place on campus. As a frequent patron of Keough Hall masses, I can also attest that the end of mass brings a period of announcements where various events are mentioned to make the dorm more aware. 
Lynch and O'Brien continue by asking the question, "How is Coke not going to make a profit from this campaign?" If one reads the article closely, Coca-Cola never claims to not profit from the campaign. Lynch and O'Brien mistake this in talking about Notre Dame's prestige account in which Coca-Cola is "willing not to focus on profit because the account is more valuable." Keyword: focus. Coca-Cola will probably sec an increase in sales with this pro­motion and will certainly realize some profil<;, perhaps not to the extent which Lynch and O'Brien suggest. But why is that such a bad thing? That is how companies and corporations survive and grow in this world. Beyond the possibility that Coca-Cola may earn more rev­enue L<; the over-looked fact the corporation is giving back to the Notre Dame community. The Coca-Cola Corporation has done plenty for Notre Dame already. Former Coca-Cola President Don Keough gave money to the University, thus creating Keough I !all, named in honor of his wife. Any of you students out there planning on studying abroad in Ireland can thank the Keough family for creating the program over there. This promotion is in fact quite like the Box-Tops for Education program with which many of our parents arc familiar. You buy certain products, cut out and mail in the labels, and the primary or secondary school of your choice receives funding. 
As if the argument didn'tjump around enough, Lynch and O'Brien warn students about the hazards of Coca-Cola and its sugar content. I'd like to thank them for pointing out the fact to me. In the future. I hope to be enlightened about the hazards of the food I consume at Burger King and Sbarro as wnll. Those seriously concerned about the sugar content of Coca-Cola have the options of C2 and other Coke products. If you don't like pop/soda/soda pop/whatever you call it. have a bottle ofDasani water instead. 
My biggest complaint comes with the idea that Notre Dame students have all been "duped." If you were smart enough to get into Notre Dame, I am sure that you arc smart enough to figure out what you want to buy on your own. If Lynch and O'Brien have that much of a problem with the promotion, the solution is simple: Don't participate. Everyone has the option whether they choose to partici­pate or not. Before we go and attack other University sponsors such as adidas and Chevrolet. let's all just sit back and take a deep breath. I lave a Coke if you want. 
Patrick Coleman fl'<'shman Keough f-hill reb. 3 

farms. On factory farms, animals are virtually immobilized in tiny cages, pumped full of hor­mones and antibiotics, mutilated without any painkillers and denied any basic behavioral or physical needs..The competition to produce inexpensive meat has led to the animals being treated as nothing more than commodities. This competition has also forced agribusiness to exploit the land. Funneling grains through animals is an inefficient practice. Twenty times the defenseless animals suffering on factory farms are in need of our compassion. 
I would like to ask everyone to think about reviving the ancient tradition and consider a vegetarian diet for Lent. 
Katherine Groff JUnior Badin Hall 
Feb. 3 



THE OBSERVER 


CENE 
Friday, February 4, 2005 
page 12 
Music of the night 
New York Philharmonic debuts at the PAC 
The New York Philharmonic wowed audience members lucky enough to score tickets on Thursday night at the Performing Arts Center. 
By MARIA SMITH and BRANDON HOLLIHAN Scene Editor and Scene Writer 
John Haynes, executive cirector for the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, strode through the row of violinists towards the center of the stage. With a microphone attached to his tuxedo shirt, he made reference to Thursday night as the most important cultural moment in the history of Notre Dame. He acknowl­edged those who had made Thursday night's dream a reality-most notably University President Father· Edward Malloy and Judd Leighton. The men­tioning of their names both received tremendous applause. 
"[The PAC] will hopefully be Father Malloy's most lasting and championed installation ... we owe him much grati­tude for seeing that this project was done," Haynes said. 
After Haynes left the stage, Maestro Lorin Maazel took the podium, and so began the New York Philharmonic's debut performance at the University of Notre Dame. 
The Philharmonic performed two works: Antonfn Dvorak's Symphony No. 9 in E Minor, "From the New World" and Bela Bartok's "Concerto for Orchestra, BB 123, Sz. 116." The compositions stood in stark contrast to one another, with Dvorak's tonal, very thematic movements compared with Bartok's dissected instrumentation in the concerto. In both cases, the per­formance by the Philharmonic was dynamic. The first real "wow" moment occurred upon the raucous completion of the first movement in the Dvorak; the orchestra had pla.yed so forcefully (particularly the amazing brass sec­tion) that one could hear an echo throughout the Leighton after Maazel closed off the movement. One might have wondered whether such a feat had been produced before in the hall. The Philharmonic already had control of its audience. 
There were many other beautiful moments throughout the program, such as e-flat clarinetist Mark Nuccio's tender solo in the Largo movement of the Dvorak; the powerful brass in the Dvorak's final movement; and the elab­orate work by the strings in much of the Bartok. The violins were intense but quiet enough that an individual harp sounded through' and was not drowned in the mix. 
Maazel conducted the entire concert without a score in front of him -a sign of both his storied knowledge of the works performed as his reputation as one of the top conductors in the world. His preferred stance, it seems, is to keep his legs a little more than shoulder's width apart, with his hands and wrists in his line of sight. He did this regularly on the more vigorous sections of the program. In fact, this was much of how the final moments of the Bartok were handled. As the tempo increased and various sections throughout the orchestra motives mostly separate from one another, Maazel assumed his widened stance, leading the Philharmonic with nothing more than the movement of his wrists. In slower movements (particularly the Largo in the Dvonik), he allowed for more flexibility, his body language becoming flexible as well. This added to the tenderness entailed by the music. 

The audience -composed of adults and faculty on the floor, with students occupying the balcony and choral areas -received the program with such enthusiasm that Maazel came out for not one, but two encores: Johannes Brahm's world-renowned "Hungarian Dance No. 5" and Dvorak's "Slavonic Dance in B major." Both were played as impeccably as any music aficionado could expect, or perhaps even imagine. The coordination of a group of the most talented musicians in the field, who have played together in countless concerts, became more obvious than ever in such a spontaneous perform­ance. Maazel barely had to prompt his orchestra to begin the piece after 
.returning to the stage. Only after the musicians began to leave the stage did the applause die down. 
''I'm not a big music buff, but I loved · [the performance]." said student Erin Rogzinski. 
"[The concert] was amazing," stu­dent Bill Kern said. "It was my first time at a concert here, and the sound is just unbelievable. It's a great oppor­tunity." 
Coordination of the Philharmonic's debut at Notre Dame did not entail a great deal of loopholes, but certain prerequisites had to be fulfilled. 
"They had to be on tour to begin with," said Haynes when reached for comment, "and they were very intrigued with the inaugural piece of the new hall. This is the first time they've performed in the state of Indiana." 
The stay in South Bend is a brief one for the Philharmonic. "It's a quick in­and-out," violist Vivek Ramath said. "We got here in the afternoon, and we're going to Michigan tomorrow." 
Ramath also discussed the Philharmonic's curriculum, citing that they generally perform four concerts a week in New York City, with four rehearsals for each week's program. 
Speaking on what was performed Thursday night. he said, "The reper­toire we've done tonight has been done in past weeks." The Dvorak symphony, for instance, was performed frequently when the Philharmonic toured Asia last year. 
The engagements here and in Michigan arc part of a five-city tour of the Midwest for the Philharmonic. before heading back to New York to repeat Thursday night's program on Tuesday, foil wed by conductor Riccardo Chailly giving several per­formances of Gustav Mahler's "Symphony No. 7." 
Contact Maria Smith and Brandon Hollihan at msmith4@nd.edu and bholliha@nd.edu 

Friday, February 4, 2005 

page 2 The Observer+ IN FOCUS 
DAVE BARON president vice president LlZZI SHAPPELL 

Who They Are 
Dave Baron is a junior political science and economics major from Morrissey Manor. Uzzi Shappell is a sopho­more political science and peace studies major from Badin Hall. 
In Their Words 
+ 
Top Priority: Baron and Shappell are set on securing a concert endowment by the end of their term. With a base of $100,000, they plan on expanding the fund to $1 million by soliciting alumni donations, which would yield $50,000 a year for programming. The endowment would allow student government to bring in the big-name bands and speakers that are out of the current budget's reach. 

+ 
First Priority: The "Catholic Think Tank of America" lecture series is at the top of their list of to-dos. The idea is to invite prominent and diverse Catholic speakers like Alan Keyes, Martin Sheen and even Kanye West to ·pro­voke moral and social discussion on campus. 


In Our Words 
+ 
Best Idea: The "Catholic Think Tank of America" is a promising idea that could revitalize Notre Dame's aca­demic life. The University needs to capitalize on its repu­tation as a Catholic and intellectual leader, and its name recognition is more than enough to pull in prominent speakers. 

+ 
Worst Idea: The electronic marquee in LaFortune that would display updates on student government hap­penings would be a waste of money ~qual to the pur­chase of flatscreen 1Vs for Beckers. Flyers are just as effective, and more cost efficient. Even e-mails, word of mouth, or even handmade posters are better alterna­tives. 

+ 
Most Feasible Idea: Under the new constitution, cre­ating a Senate Committee on Community Helations to help out with the Notre Dame-South Bend relationship is well within the student body president's power. It's a rela­tively simple move that has the potential to make a good deal of progress on the issue. 

+ 
Least Feasible Idea: With money spread thin as it is, a Rally Fund would be an extraneous drain on the budg­et. Clubs that want to protest can use the funds they're already allotted. 


+ 
Fun Facts: Dave has the "bizarre ability" to tell you how to get to any two major U.S. cities by interstate num­bers. He proved it with Detroit and L.A. Lizzi, who is 6'0" tall, was the tallest person in her class until senior year of high school. 

+ 
Notable Quote: "Student government has absolutely no power unless they have 8,000 people standing-with them."-Dave Baron 


Bottom Une 

Baron and Shappell are clearly passionate about stu­dent government, and their "8,000 Strong" platform con­cept is indicative of their genuine concern for their peers, from the basketball arena to the student government office to off-campus housing. Hare among politicians, it seems they really believe in what they're saying. Baron made the best of a difficult situation as this administra­tion's chief executive assistant, and has developed into a leader in his own right. Yet he remains the apologetic voice for many of Istvan and Bell's struggles, and Shappell does not bring enough new plans to the table to make up for it. 

JAMES LEITO president vice president JORDAN BONGIOVANNI 
Who They Are 
James Leito is a junior accounting major and Hesburgh program for public service minor from Siegfried Hall. Jordan Bongiovanni is a junior accounting and philosophy major from Cavanaugh Hall. 
In Their Words 
+ 
Top Priority: Leito and Bongiovanni;s term goal is to give a Board of Trustees report on put­ting a student on the Board. 

+ 
First Priority: If elected, they will immediately launch an ad campaign to publicize the existing alternative bookstore methods and use the "lame duck" period to open the channels of communica­tion in student government, and "get on the same page" before they step into office. 


In Our Words 
+ 
Best Idea: Their plans for restructuring DART on IrishLink by including search options by day, class time, professor and credit hours as well as improving DARTing for abroad students is plan that's possible and in demand. 

+ 
Worst Idea: Creating an SYR committee to oversee hall dance commissioners would make planning more difficult -not easier -and would add more red tape to a system that was just streamlined. 

+ 
Most Feasible Idea: A plan similar to the "Welcome Weis" tour to introduce the new Irish football coach to campus was organized for Tyrone Willingham, so there's no reason to believe it couldn't be done again. 

+ 
Least Feasible Idea: Though a good sentiment, student government doesn't have the power to organize a University administration question and answer session unless the ildministration is open to it. 

+ 
Fun Facts: James is colorblind. Jordan could­n't pronounce the word "spaghetti" until she was 11 -"and I'm Italian!" 

+ 
Notable Quote: "People always tell Jordan and I that we're politicians, but we're really business people ... and really nothing gets done if you don't 



hold people accountable." 
Bottom Line 

Leito and Bongiovanni spent six years learning what's missing from student government -and spent the campaign proving they have what it takes to fill in the gaps. As Senators, both sat on the front lines of the ups and downs of the new student union constitution's first year. But it is what they have observed as students, they are quick to point out, that shaped the ideals of their platform and their desire to run for office. Returning accountability to the Office of the President is a lofty but vital goal. This pair has what it takes to accomplish it for the Notre Dame student body. 

CRAIG BREDE 
president 
Who They Are 
Craig Brede is a junior finance and economics major from Alumni Hall. Vijay Ramanan is a junior math and philosophy major from Alumni Hall. 
In Their Words 
+ 
Top Priority: Brede and Hamanan plan to establish a separate medium from the ,University bookstore for students to purchase textbooks, pos­sibly by buying NDBay and operating it through student government. They think cheaper textbooks through this pathway is more realistic than con­vincing the bookstore to give student discounts. 

+ 
First Priority: First and foremost, they want to finish the Student Course Evaluation (SCE) initia­tive Ramanan has helped developed over the last few months, and work with OIT to get the program ready over the summer so it can be up and run­ning for the fall semester. 


In Our Words 
+ 
Best Idea: Their detailed plan for putting a student (or recent graduate) on the Board of Trustees is by far the most thorough examination of the idea thus far. The Trustees aren't supposed to be political, so their stipulations for a three­year term and application process are in keeping with the purpose of the position. 

+ 
Worst Idea: The idea to install videocameras for dining hall locker security is unnecessary and costly. The number of bookbag thefts doesn't war­rant full-scale monitoring. 

+ 
Most Feasible Idea: More designated 24-hour space is a parietals compromise the administration might actually agree to. It's also needed, as Reekers is the only non-dorm 24-hour study space. 

+ 
Least Feasible Idea: Repairing the D6 parking lot to eliminate the "lakes" that gather when it rains is a bigger job than can be achieved in a year, especially since all the work would have to be done bver the summer. 

+ 
Fun Facts: Craig is on the fencing team. Vijay can do a "pretty good impression" of Babu Bhatt. They were both captains of their high school tennis 



WILL MARRA 
president 
Who They Are 
Will is a freshman biology major and Russian minor from Zahm Hall. Pete is a freshman biology major from Zahm Hall. 
In Their Words 
+Top Priority: Though not specified on the plat­form on their Web site, they want to push to get cable internet in the dorms by the end of their term. 
+ First Priority: Their initial goal is to get Ecto Cooler running in the dining halls, so students can taste the results as soon as possible. 
In Our Words 
+ 
Best Idea: The Ecto Cooler is a nostalgic and tasty idea. If we can have blue Powerade and Fair Trade coffee, why can't Slimer get a chance? 

+ 
Worst Idea: If elected, Marra and Harig say they plan to borrow all the best ideas from all of the other tickets' platforms. Not only is this a weak way out, but they don't know enough about the other candidates' proposal to be able to speak about them in any length, let alone implement them. 

+ 
Most Feasible Idea: The dining halls already have a connection to Hi-C with the Poppin' Pink Lemonade, so securing some Ecto Cooler shouldn't be that difficult. 

+ 
Least Feasible Idea: Their idea of painting high-speed traffic lines to manage congestion at major sidewalk intersections may be appealing to anyone who has ever been clipped by a speeding bike, but the University would neither approve the plan, nor would pedestrians be likely to obey the traffic laws. 

+ 
Fun Facts: Will is "proud to say" he has a con­dition that causes him to sneeze in the sun. Pete 
i a self-proclaimed "die-hard Styx fan." 

+ 
Notable Quote: "If you want to get somethin done, do it yourself. Don't wait for others to do i ... we want to dip our feet in the water now." Pete Harig 


Friday, February 4, 2005 The Observer+ IN FOCUS page 3 

VIJAY RAMANAN 
vice president 


teams and watch The West Wing together every weekday night. 
+ Notable Quote: "It's not being in student gov­ernment that gives you what you need to get it done in the board room. It's the leadership quali­ties that are ingrained in you."-Vijay Hamanan 
Bottom Line 
Brede and Hamanan are dynamic, professional, even compelling. Their desire to be firm, vocal leaders is admirable, and their platform is thick with carefully rnsearched ideas -Young .Trustee and an academic speaker endowment in particular -that prove they have what it takes to present solid policies. But despite their thorough approach and knack for leaving a striking impression, it could be difficult for this all-Alumni. limited high­level experience ticket to take leadership of the wider student union. 


PETE HARIG 
vice president 

ottom Line 
Marra and Harig show ambition by running for JtTice early in their Notre Dame careers, and no ne can argue with their creative, entertaining . b site. But there is too much disparity between heir platform's lighthearted promises of Ecto :ooler and Sidewalk Traffic Management and their 
lemn public persona. Politics already has enough plit personalities. 
MARK HEALY president 
vice president BOB COSTA 
Who They Are 

Mark llealy is a sophomore computer science major from Zahm Hall. Bob Costa is a freshman American studies major from Zahm Hall. 
In Their Words 

+ 
Top Priority: llealy and Costa call the "center­piece" of their platform an effort to bring big-name concerts to campus. They support developing the concert endowment, but assert they can secure popular bands this semester without it. 

+ 
First Priority: Determined to launch into their term at full-speed, they outlined a nine-point First 30-Days Plan, which includes a full audit of stu­dent government expenses and scheduling at least one A-list band to play at Notre Dame. 


In Our Words 

+ Best Idea: Their "WE AHE" plan to unite Notre 

Dame students with South Bend through a Campus-Community Clean-Up and week to + Fun Facts: Mark is a DJ on WVFI radio. Bob acquaint students with businesses. community cen­has been to over 300 concerts in his life for free. ters and parks of South Bend is a commendable + Notable Quote: "You look at the other tickets idea. It allows students to and you see the outsiders and you see the insidPrs 
+ Worst Idea: If the idea if rejected by OIT. -I think Mark and I take the third way. "-Bob Healy has promised to go around and personally Costa equip all 24-hour spaces with wireless Internet. It's not exactly the best way to make friends in the 
Bottom Line

administration, and could definitely have some 
Healy and Costa get credit for knowing what th1~yfeasibility issues. 
want and going after it. Their intense focus on
+ Most Feasible Idea: Their push for better pub­
attracting top-level performers to N"otre Dame
licity for student government elections so more 
resulted in a platform that is heavy on connectionspeople can be involved in the various organizations to John Mayer and Dave Matthews Band. but 11im­is definitely workable. They can expand upon the 
sy when it comes to non-programming areas. Their
Judicial Council's efforts during this year's presi­
self-confidence is slightly excessive, especially
dential campaign. 

when it comes to their plans for approaching
+ Least Feasible Idea:· As part of their First 30 
University officials and the Board of Trustees. ButDays, they promise to do a full audit of the student since the young pair's ruthless motivation is war­
government within the first month of their term. 
ranted when it comes to concerts, Healy and CostaEven with enough dedication and motivation, the 
would do well to refocus their attention on Studentstudent government includes so many organiza­Union Board leadership.
tions and budget intricacies that the time frame isn't realistic. 
ALEC WHITE president 
vice president ERIK POWERS 
Who They Are 

Alec White is a sophomore math and Spanish major from Sorin Hall. Erik Powers is an English and American studies major from Sorin Hall. 
In Their Words 

+ 
Top Priority: Because they find student gov­ernment too accessible, their long-term goal is to move student government offices to North Quad and surround them with a tall hedge maze guard­ed my a minotaur, to whom full health and dental insurance will be provided. 

+ 
First Priority: Concerned with the status of women at Notre Dame, White and Powers are striving to ensure women's suffrage in the student body presidential elections. 


In Our Words 

+ 
Best Idea: Notre Dame could definitely benel'it from their plan to force people to make a new friend every week. 

+ 
Worst Idea: A tough choice, but melting down the Golden Dome to make gold teeth for dining hall workers is the worst. 

+ 
Most Feasible Idea: Selling small. individually wrapped balloons on campus is an easy promise to fulfill. 

+ 
Least Feasible Idea: Actually making quarter dogs out of quarters is not only impossible, but unappetizing as well. 

+ 
Fun Facts: Alec worked as a whitewater raft guide last summer and has the same initials as A&W Root Beer. Erik has a comb-over right now. 

+ 
Notable Quote: "We make people smile a little bit more ... and we're smiling back."-Alec White 


Bottom Line 

White and Powers went the joke ticket extra mile with their 65 "points of light upon a hill," which ranged from the funny (buy a Ouija board to com­municate with the Gipper) to the sacrilegious (sell fertility monitors in LaFortune) to the offensive (melt down the Golden Dome to make gold teeth 

• I 
..---------------­
page 4 Friday, February 4, 2005
The Observer+ IN FOCUS 
The Observer endorses Leito-Bongiovanni 
Call it a race between insiders. All dent government -is convincing. earning the credibility to make that rience necessary to alter student gov­six tickets competing in Monday's stu­Leito and Bongiovanni do not try to request sounds realistic. Similarly, ernment from the inside out. dent body presidential elections win over their constituents with increasing the concert and speaker The Mark Healy-Bob Costa ticket is exhibit at least minimal prior involve­flashy new plans and promises of endowment to $5 million sounds like improved from the Healy of his fresh­ment in student government, from instant gratification. Indeed, they are a dream come true to those craving a man year, but their intense focus on class councils to SUB to Student quick to admit that most of the ideas return U2 tour stop. But researching A-list bands undermines the trust­Senate to the Office of the President on their platform have been languish­the possible strength of combining worthiness of the rest of their lofty itself. But only the James Leito­ing on the second floor of LaFortune funding from student government, the plans. And the Will Marra-Pete Harig Jordan Bongiovanni ticket demon­for months or years -development office and Alec White-Erik Powers tickets strates the drive to convert the pair's it's just that an OJhe and the alumni asso­bring levity, a minotaur and Ecto experience into decisive action on administration has yet userver ciation sounds like a Cooler to the race, but not much else. behalf of the student body. to aggressively pursue down-to-earth vision. Leito and Bongiovanni present a 
Six combined years in student gov­the research and fol­It is tricky to pit platform that they fully researched ernment have shown Leito and low-through required experience against with administrators, faculty and stu­

Editorial
Bongiovanni exactly what happens to make these ideas a experience. The Dave dents, and that only promises what when a student union operates with­reality. Baran-Lizzi Shappell they can deliver. Their own hard out accountability. Their frustration The ticket's student trustee and and Craig Brede-Vijay Hamanan tick­work over the past three years has with the current administration's hes­programming endowment plans are ets also carry their share of thorough left them with an unshakable belief in itance to hold leaders accountable is the two best examples of this pattern. research and insider analysis. But accountability. They want to be the apparent. Their astonishment at the Asking the Board of Trustees to Baron, now the chief executive assis­driven, ambitious leaders that stu­wasted potential for productivity is accept the student body president tant to student body president Adam dents deserve, and then~ is no reason genuine. And because of their into its ranks -exactly as Leito did Istvan and vice president Karla Bell. to believe they won't. straightforward approach and solid last year as Charlie Ebersol's running suffers from his association with this The Observer endorses James platform, their pledge to reverse mate-obviously sounds attractive. administration's sluggishness. Brede Leito and Jordan Bongiovanni for these trends-which account for But respecting the Board enough to and Hamanan are politically savvy student body president and vice many students' complaints about stu-dedicate their entire term in office to but lack the top-.level hands-on expe-president. 
THE OBSERVER'S TAKE ON PROGRAMMING 
~EISSUES:CHEERS,JEERS ENDOWMENT AND POUTE APPLAUSE 

They ,_,hope to expand \ \ on the $100,000 allotment by soliciting aiumni_dona­tions and r¢&6Wog out to.-c6ordiri.ate t6;urs with otherMidweStern schools~ In tf'te-Ili.ean­
Baron & Shappell time,··they'll'iticrease SUB's concert budget. 


\'\ If the money is available without slashing ·f~p:(ts for CLC;Aran~P:ortatjon, they wantcto'p~t it towards an1i!,C'ademic sp~k.er endowment.


Brede & Ramanan 


They say theyJ~now they'_n·rneet resistance on .tfi'f)'••i'ssue, biit it do,.es~'t'\ 1 matter beca:u.se·:they can'get big·._riaines without one. Students should be cautious when

Healy & Costa 
trusting th~Ill blindly. 


Leito thinks the goal shbuld be $5 million, {vith-yi-elds of $1 oo~·2oo:.OO.,O '·:per yea-r and ·wanfs to make it a p(iority for the .devel'opthen t
office;·'',.__::·· ____,._,.,-


Leito & Bongiovanni 


STUDENT ON THE 
BOARD OF 



TRUSTEES 
They support the idea of adding a non­voting stud~.11t to the Board, qrif Qnly if the BOT coniinu'es \to allq:w .stvd~Qt'gdvetn­menfs)ri-amiual pre.s­entatiori to the Boait:l's Student · Affairs Committee. \' 
They want the stu­dent to be "the best the University has to offer," incorporating a three~·year ter:m and nominating conimit­tee. Theirs i,S·-themost profession-~i--and respectful· approach of the tickets. 
They like the idea and !hinkit~Jl help the .Boajd give.better pr~ss: :they want to ditectly; i contact 
TECHNOLOGY IN 


DORMS 

They also want to push for the pilot printer pr_ogram to expan!}.-''into\ _all dorms; thfty. say; tpey need to· dd 'n{ore 
ci:lmplet~ ~~search,on 
getting C<tble throiil.gh the current. Ether~et connection. 
They want to expand the pilot printer program to all dorms, and get copy stations !lot in every dorm put in key locations. -· 
If OtT--sa.ys ~no, He<!<lY'"'-· wanis--·. to in~taU~ _. wireless Int~.rne..t. himself. 

Fathet-.Jerikins about This could be a diffi­it whe,p.,Je,nkjris does-cult a_!1d possibly n't control the Board, respectful inove on it's the other way his part. around. \\ 
They claim to under­They want to find stand the\position of ways to overcome the BOT and want to use "satellite, eyesore" their eno're-te.rm in aspect of getting cable officeto prqwF1;lu:iy are in dorms, whi(;h they worthy of the Board's havi already/ dis­respect irf .return cussed with OIT\offi­before askirig for the cials. They -also ·want addition of a: student to get student input trustee. about a payment plan. 
..........,:.z·· ... '···-...;
They t}jink lfs,out­'they.Jike the idea
side of,: St'\ld~nt 'gqv­
oCg{lttnprintCI;S; but
ernment"~v ... po'w¢ r, 
haymPi/done specific whiCh is, at least, a 
research:~ . .
nialisiic ·view. . .{ I : 
/ AJ...._ 
--~ \ I i \ { ! 
\.,) 
BooKSTORE 

ISSUES 
They want to develop an online used book exchange and possibly pursue an increase.jn'stu­dent"discount days to once or twie·e a month. Rave·•' dis­ctissed this· with bookstore. 
They want to cap the max amount you can spend per course -will be flexible. with alternatives :.C.... but say they must take a stand for the "extreine cases." 

They want the bookstore. to post buyback. \ '':prices online: a;hd tJ;y oto enlist aQ.rru'ni~traHon to get more than ope student discount day a semester.·~ 
They want to pur­sue a student dis­count in a once-a­month, non-football weekend _or a.pything but textbooks format. They also want to better publiCize alter­native methods as described above. 
,./'y,. .. .,. ·.·,:.: 
/' .... 

Ag~i~;~tl;tey are "all fotpursufng" a new NPBa.:y;·;but have no plan.of''h,pw to get it done. ·"" l , 
;\ I; 
\) 

TICKET 


DISTRIBUTION 
Want, fdv put TicketShare on the Web and hdd·fa<h~If­season ticket pack­age option. 
They want to actu­ally monitor the TicketShare program and make sure it's filling the seats. 
Th_l;ly wantJo sim­plify it so students only h;ive to go to the ticketoffice once, but thtJy don·t give any specifics for how they'll implement the plan. 
They want to sell student Season tickets before individual game tickets, and to convince the athletic department to allow students to enter the game after tipofl'. 
They first said "if you rcally"wanted tickets you should've bei:in able to get them-:· !;Jut then· they blamed ~he JACC's seating· without research into chang­ing it. \.\ 
OFF-CAMPUS 
ISSUES 

They want to decrease "townie and NO stigma" through their Senate Comm­ittee_ on Coml1lunity Helations, and plan to implement an off­campus safety semi­nar and an off-campus security alert system. 
They want to incrPase rPpresPnta­tion for ofT-campus students by adding a s-econd off-campus senator and presi­dent as representa­tives of specific hous­ing regions. 
Their "WE AHE" plan could actually improve ND stu­dents' image in the community. 
They support off­campus security alerts and seminars to teach bt'f-campus students basic skills but provide no origi­nal ideas. 
They want to get the SafeBus up and running, when even the plan's proposers admit It needs to be approached from 11 different angle. 

,,.._, ......,··· .··:~1""~............ 
... /""''<"~-.....,, -~~~-.. -·······;...,......,:.t!,,.,, 
They..:, support 
They.Jvant to put
They-'\Vant the stu­
Th~y''want to raise 

They want to have
increasing the quali­
wheels on the 

Thl'ly think inviting
delft tu have a 

prices and let stu­
student actors reen­
ty !Jf events like An 
dorms. Carroll resi­

the neighbors over
matching desk, 

dents pay in blood, 
act basketball games
Tostal, but have no 
dents might llke it, 

for a beer will solw~
chandelier and patch 

limbs. appendages. 
for those who can't
rear idea for how to 
but it's not going to 
1werything.
of carpeting, too. 

Ouch. 
get tickets. 
do it. 
happen. 

White & Powers 

------~ 
THE OBSERVER 





CENE
Friday, February 4, 2005 
page 13 
Saddle up for some laughs 
Keenan Revue rolls into town for 29th year 
By LAUREN WENDEL Scene Writer 
Tlwrn aro a fnw signs around South llnral marking the end of winter ­spring brnak trip planning, Mardi Gras. thosn I0 minutns of extra sun­light and the always controversial but always entnrtaining Keenan Hevue. This 29th pnrl'ormance of the Hevue is slightly tamnr than years past, but dons not disappoint with its satirical n~marks on campus life, modern soci­nty and religion. Nothing is safe or sacn~d for this group of young men who poke fun at everything from off­campus partios to Jeopardy!, the male anatomy. dining hall workers and even Jesus. 
Knnnan residents have been per­forming the Hevue since 1976 when original crnators Tom Lenz and Hick Thomas noticnd the musical and conu~dic talents of fellow hall mates during a basnmnnt talent show. The nscapadPs did not Pnd here but rather dnvelopnd into a campus-wide tradi­tion. annually drawing 4,000 specta­tors from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and lloly Cross. This year is no differ­ent for the Hevue. Tickets, free with a student I.D .. disappeared within the first 23 minutes of distribution last week. 
All of the skits are written and per­formed by over half the residents of Keenan Hall, who often spend two weeks devoted to perfecting their ideas for this signature event. Although Revue staffers often reject a large number of these ideas early in the process, the residents still manage to create an off-the-wall, humorous and sometimes crude two-hour show. 
"This year we had a high number of skits audition -110," Revue producer Andy Grau said, "and out of those 110, only 14 make the actual show." 
Director Dave Fotopoulos and his staff of producers, writers, stage man­agers, choreographers, designers and countless other volunteers have been working for several months to make this year's show memorable. This year's "Wild Wild West" theme has been discussed in years past but final­ly chosen in part to the rise in the popularity of poker, the O.C. and Las Vegas. 
The opening includes a cartoon-like showdown between a "Gringo" and a 

group of Hispanics which ends in fake gunfire. It continues with a cover of the Darkness' hit "I Believe in a thing Called Love" complete with the only male strip of the entire show. 
Inspiration for most of the ideas comes from topical news and events around campus and the dorm. In recent years, the topics of many skits were victims of strict censorship. Due in part to these regulations, this year's · show is tamer in many arenas, with fewer dorm and Saint Mary's jabs. This may leave many expecting the usual Revue fare disappointed. but allows room for a more sophisticated writing style lifting the Hevue to a new level of comedic genius. Head writers John Hart and Todd McBride create a fresh, lively and hilarious set of skits that will please, as well as offend, the majority of the audience. 
The first act includes the smartly written "Le magician triste" (the sad magician) and well-acted "Master cheese Theater." There are a few jokes about Brady Quinn, underage drinking and the administration, but don't expect the usual barrage of insults of previous Revue performanc­es. 
Musical interludes of favorite child­hood television shows such as "lley Dude" and "Captain Plarwt" keep tht' audience entertained in botween skits as well as add nostalgia to the show. 
The second act continuus with Jnf'J' Stephens' rendition of "I llave a Dream" as well as one male student's personal diary of his sell' discovery during freshman year. "6 p.m. Meeting at the YMCA," Keenan Hevue News and a homoerotic workout session continue to delight the crowd and keep the show moving. The clever "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner" rounds out the show and is possibly the best written skit of the evening. 
There is a little bit of humor for every whim. a goal for this year's staff. 
"We wan ted a variety of conwdy, nothing that would be too risque or not funny to the majority," Grau said. Foto p o ul o s e c h o ed t h i s s ~~ n t i m e n t deeming the show a success "il' every­one is entertairwd." 
Indeed this year's Kennan Hevue is a comedic success. 
Contact Lauren Wendel at wend8627@saintmarys.edu 


Left, a few superheroes made their way Into the Keenan Revue. Top right, a workout session was also Included, as was some crossdresslng, bottom right. 
Friday, February 4, 2005 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
North Carolina cruises to victory against rival N.C. State 
Associated Press "The guys are battling and Jensen scored 10 points. really have a terrific mind-set," Lodrick Stewart had 13 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -North N.C. State coach Herb Sendek points for the Trojans (9-12, 2­Carolina freshman Marvin said. "Our group has been 8), who have lost three Williams made 3-pointers, through a tremendous amount. straight. drove to the basket and did The resiliency and character Aggressive pressure defense everything in between. He has been admirable, it really forced Southern Cal into 24 punctuated his coming-out has." turnovers. party with a spectacular dunk, Even with Bethel, the The Trojans led by five points where he posed in the air with Wolfpack had very few answers when Williams took over in the his left hand behind his head. for the Tar Heels. Reserve paint and led the Huskies on a 
And it all came after he spent David Noel finished off a steal 21-5 run. He had nine points in a good portion of the day in in the first half with a reverse the spurt that gave Washington bed recovering from the flu. dunk, an-d Marvin Williams a 31-20 lead with 6:25 to play 
"He's a freak," teammate might have topped him with his in the half.-Rashad McCants said. highlight-package dunk during Southern Cal cut the lead to 
Williams had a season-high the big spurt in the final 20 four points, but Washington 20 points, McCants s-cored 18 minutes. ended the half with a dunk­and Sean May had another Later, with walk-ons and filled 16-2 run that made it 47­double-double, helping the sec­other little-used players finish­29 at halftime. ond-ranked Tar Heels beat ing out the blowout, several No. 17 Gonzaga 68, Saint North Carolina State 95-71 on teammates were mimicking Mary's 64 Thursday night. Williams' move on the bench. Adam Morrison listened to 
With the illness circulating "He is awesome," Sendek what was said in Gonzaga's through the team, Williams said. "I don't think there is locker room at halftime. Then joined coach Roy Williams in anything he can't do." went out and did it. taking intravenous fluids It's an opinion shared by Morrison scored the first six before the game. those who see Marvin Williams points of the second half and didn't make shots down the Richard Midgley led the 
"He got it on Saturday night, every day in practice. No. 17 Gonzaga wiped out a stretch." Golden Bears (11-9, 4-6) with and I didn't get it until Monday "At the beginning of the sea­12-point deficit on the way to a E.J. Rowland, who led Saint 18 points and six rebounds. night," Roy Williams said. son, I think he was a little hesi­victory over Saint Mary's on Mary's with 18 points, said he Rod Benson had 12 points and "Hopefully, three days from tant to take some shots and Thursday night. knew it was only a matter of Martin Smith 11 for Cal, which now, I'll look like Marvin." now he's just playing," May The Gaels' 38-26 halftime time for the Zags to make a run had a three-game winning 
Raymond Felton reached said. "Now, he's starting to lead didn't last and neither did in the second half. streak snapped. 1 ,000 career points and added realize that he has a little more the way both teams were "Morrison made a couple of Reserves played the final 5 10 assists for North Carolina freedom and can do more shooting. Gonzaga held Saint baskets and got them going," minutes after Jesus Verdejo, (18-2, 7-1 Atlantic Coast things. The kid's unbelievable." Mary's to two field goals over Rowland said. "We had some who had just entered the game, Conference), which has won 18 With the victory secure, Roy the final 12 minutes and lapses." made a 3-pointer with 5:22 to of its past 19 games. May fin­Williams spent the final min­avenged an earlier loss to the "It came down to we let them go, giving the Wildcats an 86­ished with 16 points and 14 utes relaxed on the bench, and Gaels. get "back in it too easy," Saint 58 lead, their biggest of the rebounds to make up for lead­he certainly needed the break. "Don't hang your heads," Mary's coach Randy Bennett game. ing scorer Jawad Williams fin­He's been bothered by that Morrison recounted when said. "We didn't do a good job The Bears got as close as ishing with six points, 10 under viral infection the past couple asked what was said at half­of handling their press." they were going to get 23 sec­his average. of days, and struggled through time. "We're playing pretty Saint Mary's led most of the onds into the second half, when 
''I'm comfortable," Marvin a post-game interview session good 'D.' We need to rebound game until a late 12-3 run by Benson's layup cut their deficit Williams said. "I feel like I can with very little strength in his and play smarter." the Bulldogs gave them a 65-59 to 46-35. shoot 'em. I take them when voice. Morrison and point guard lead they did not relinquish. But that triggered an 18-4 they're open." "The best thing that hap­Derek Raivio each scored 19 Sean Mallon's putback and run in which the Wildcats 
The Tar Heels improved to pened is that my team played points for the Bulldogs (16-4, free throw for Gonzaga tied the scored the last 11 points to 11-0 at home with a familiar their butts off and that certain­6-2 West Coast Conference). game at 56 with 6:01 left. take a 64-39 lead with 13:48 to formula -jump to an early ly made-me feel a lot better," who were 15-for-25 from the Gonzaga stole the ball on the go on a 3-pointer by lead, then close it with a domi­he said. field in the second half while next play and Turiaf's layup Stoudamire. nant run early in the second No. 13 Washington 99, holding the Gaels to 7 -for-29 gave the Bulldogs their first Martin Smith made two 3­half. This time, they shot 66 Southern California 69 shooting over the final 20 min­lead. pointers during a 12-1 surge percent and led 51-32 at half­Tre Simmons scored a utes. No. 14 Arizona 97, California that got Cal within 65-51 with time, with McCants, May and career-high 29 points and "We had to prove to them 76 10:07 left while Arizona coach Marvin Williams already in Jamaal Williams added 21 to they were not going to beat us Channing Frye had 20 points Lute Olson mixed younger play­double figures. lead No. 13 Washington to a at home," Morrison said. and seven rebounds and No. 14 ers and starters. 
"Anytime you score 90 points victory over Southern Saint Mary's (19-6, 6-2) was Arizona beat California on But Arizona came out of it on a team that wants to score California on Thursday night, trying to become the first wee Thursday night. with Frye, Shakur and Adams in the 50s and 60s, you've real­giving the Huskies their best team to beat Gonzaga twice in Salim Stoudamire con­back on the floor. Frye and ly got the game under control," start in nearly three decades. a season since San Diego in tributed 17 points, Hassan Shakur scored off fast breaks, May said. Washington (18-3, 8-2 Pac-1997. Adams had 15 and Mustafa and Adams, the Pac-10 steals 
Julius Hodge had 18 points 1 0) is just off the pace of the "I hope we understand that Shakur added 10 for the leader, had one of his four and but couldn't keep the Wolfpack 197 5-76 team that started 19-defense is the key to having a Wildcats (18-4, 8-2). who kept dunked to open a 73-53 lead (13-8, 3-5) from falling to 3-7 2. great year," said Ronny Turiaf, pace with Washington atop the with 8:31 to go. in their past 10 games. The Simmons scored from the who had 14 points and nine Pac-10 standings. Arizona won . Cal struggled early against trouble started when point outside, on the fastbreak and rebounds for Gonzaga. for the 15th time in 17 games, Arizona's zone defense, missing guard Tony Bethel contracted by driving down the lane. He Paul Marigney, who scored but the previous outing was its first seven shots while the colitis after a 2-week battle was 11-of-21 from the field and 30 points in Saint Mary's 89-81 one of its worst in decades --" a Wildcats raced to an 11-0 lead with the flu, and he sat out four hit six 3-pointers. He had six win over Gonzaga on Jan. 8, lead-blowing debacle at home over the opening 4:06. games. rebounds and three assists. picked up his fourth foul early against Washington State, Stoudamire, anxious to 
He only returned to the line­Williams was effective inside in the second half and finished which had lost 38 in a row to redeem himself after missing up full-time in N.C. State's pre­and finished 9-of-1 0 from the with 10 points before fouling the Wildcats. all five 3-point attempts during vious game against Clemson, field. Will Conroy posted his out. Tbe Wildcats came in with an a 4-of-14 night against and in this one, Bethel played second career double-double "I think we got up a bit and edge, and it showed as they Washington State, had 12 35 minutes and scored 16 with 13 points and 10 assists felt comfortable and relaxed a improved to 9-0 when scoring points in the first half as the points. for the Huskies, while Mike bit," Marigney said. "And we at least 80 points. Wildcats took a 46-33 lead. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining HalL Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AJ classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 


FoR RENT 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL YEARTWO BEDROOM,TWO BATHS_ HURRY 235-7234 FOR MORE DETAIL 
Great 6-7 bdrm home available 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail­able NOW Both Close to ND,W/D,on-site parking_ NO Internet Canopy access. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 
2 bdrm condo on the lake w/loft 1­car garage,close to ND. $850/mo_ Call 574-329-0838. Avail.now. 
8-bdrm house close to ND.Great 
area.2773097 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year ­Available June 1 ,2005 2 Bedrooms­2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Security System. Fully Furnished (574)233­7373 or Salvaty@earthlirik.net 
·Great homes ideal for 3-6 stu­
dents. Close to ND.Nice 
area.2773097 
5 bdrm on NO Ave available 05-06. 
1 000/mo_ email 
ndhouses@yahoo.com 
2 bdrm condo on the lake w/loft 1­
car garage,close to NO. $850/mo. 
Call574-329-0838. Avail.now. 
2 bdrm condo on the lake w/loft 1­car garage,close to NO_ $850/mo_ Call 574-329-0838. Avail.now. 
Two story house completely remod­eled 2003_ Ready tor 2005-06 school year_ Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student hous­ing_ Laundromat next door (drycleaning also), basement avail­able for storage of bicycles,lug­gage,trunks,etc.,new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large liv­ing room for TV or entertaining,free trash removaL Call 289-4071 DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUSES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BEDROOM HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7­8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEBSITE WWWDOMUSKRAMERCOM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234-2436 OR 574-315-5032. 



LOST & FOUND 
LOST: lpod white with black case 15GB at Saint Mary s January 29. Has my only copies of my semester in Australia pictures. REWARD. Please return to NO or SMC security. 
FoR SALE 

One bedroom condo near UNO. Appliances $72,000 280-8160 Kim Kollar 
PERSONAL 

Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! Panama City, Daytona $159! Cancun. Jamaica, Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award Winning Company! SpringBreakTraveLcom 1-800-678­6386 
1994 NO grads hoping to adopt 

Please see ParentProfiles.com for more info (Arizona/Michael & Kathryn) 
Happy Birthday Anthony 

Bill Parcells doesn't smile enough 
-----~--­
Friday, February 4, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 


In a time of changing climate in the otT-campus housing market, one constant has 

remained Lafayette Square Townhomes continues to deliver the finest in student housing at the most reasonable price. While most landlords are charging $300 to $400 per student, Lafayette Square is offering its 4 and 5 bedroom apartments at just $210 per person through the end of February. Although the amenities are too 
numerous to list, the most popular features include the central air, washer and dryer, dishwasher, 2 bathrooms, private patio and spacious storage and living areas. 
Located just south of Notre Dame on the 400 block of Eddy Street, the blue townhomes of Lafayette Square have gained the reputation of being the "in" place to live for college students. In fact, anyone spending a weekend there will quickly understand why it is nicknamed the "Blue Zoo". Property Manager Rod Ludwig encourages the students to have fun while at the same time to be smart about their partying. "The key is to not disrupt the surrounding neighborhood. Our students have proven that it is possible to party and have a good time while at the same time not cause problems in the community," Ludwig states. 
With just 15 townhomes left for the 2005-2006 school year, students must act quickly to guarantee housing for next school year. For a private showing or additional information, contact Real Estate Management Corporation at 234-9923. 
NFL 

T.O. is key, but no turnovers is crucial 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -To win the Super Bowl, the Philadelphia Eagles need lots of 
T.O and no TOs. 
Of course: with All-Pro receiver Terrell Owens coming off six weeks on the sidelines with a leg injury and the Patriots' penchant for forcing turnovers, that's not such a simple formula. 
At least Owens will be avail­able for the first time since Dec. 19 and was listed as a starter for Sunday's title game. lie even caught several long passes in practice Thursday. 
Now he has to be a contribu­tor, because T.O. as a decoy isn't likely to work against the Pats for more than, say, one play. 
'That is just like putting Shaq on the court and not giving him the ball," Owens said. 
"First ol' all. T.O. IS going to be a decoy," Donovan McNabb added, smiling broadly. "We arc not going to throw him the ball. so that makes me Allen Iverson." 
Not quite. McNabb. who also played basketball at Syracusn. won't be ignoring his prime tar­get anymore than the Patriots will. While Freddie Mitchell. Todd Pinkston and Greg Lewis have performed relatively well in Owens' absence, they could be overmatched by the Patriots' defensive alignments that tend to hide any weaknesses. 
So T.O. will need to be a strong semblance of. well, T.O. 
"I am excited to see that he still has that drive, that deter­mination to get back out there on the field," McNabb said. "I am not saying he is going to be fully at 100 percent, but when you get so close to this ultimate dream and know that you are at 85-90 percent. the lirst thing that comes to mind when you get out there is calming your­self down. I am sure his adren­aline is going to be at a high. lie will probably be bouncing around the locker room. But il' he can control that and havt> the full confidence i'n tlw anklP. as well as the mind-set. T.O. will be back to the old T.O." 
Which means a playmaker. Owens. acquired from San Francisco to be the gamebreak­er the Philadelphia offens1~ lacked. was just that for almost 14 games. lie had 77 reccp­tions for 1,200 yards and 14 TDs. lie required double and even triple coverage. 
If that is the Owens who shows up in Alltel Stadium, it significantly multiplies Philly's chances to win its first NFL crown since 1960. And even if he isn't fully lwalthy, he could still be a factor. 
Indeed, T.O.'s mere prestHlW on the field should give tlw Eagles a lift. 
"When I'm in there, I am going to play 100 percent. Anytime I am on the field. I expect to have an impact." he said. 
Not surprisingly. the Patriots are preparing for a fully fit, ultradangerous Owens. They certainly won't be intimidatl'd by him, not al'ter tlw way tlwy shut down MVI' Peyton Manning and tlw Colts in the playoffs. 

New England. despite !wing without its top two cornerbat:ks (Ty l.aw and Tyrorw Pc)())e) for months, tends to get tlw best of any matchups because of tlw brilliancP ol' coarh llill Btdichick's srlwmPs. 
So don't bl' surprisPd to st•f' lincbackPr '!'Pdy Bruschi or safety Bodney !Iarrison or ]Wr­haps a lineman dropping into covl'rage during a zone blitz to he! p co rrw rbacks As ante Samuel or Handa!! Gay -or even wideout Troy Brown. who had three interceptions as a fill-in nickel back. 
"Players make plays." Harrison said. "If you don't make plays, what is a scheme? You can engineer a great car, but if you don't have the p1~ople putting it together, the car won't turn out to be anything. I think the main thing that our coaches have is a gmat aware­ness of our strengths and weaknesses and tlwy play to that." 
Whetlwr Owens has a major role Sunday or is a minor play­er, the l~agles can't afford to hand tlw ball to thl' Patriots. Philly's 22 giveaways during thr stmson Wl're livr l'ewPr than New England's. whirh is encouraging for tlw l·:aglPs. llut tlw Patriots had :~6 takPawavs to tlwir 2H. · 
In tlw playoffs. New I·:ngland already has seven takPaways. In winning two of tlw last thn'l' Super Bowls. tlw Pats commit· ted only one turnover and forced four. 

_... 
Friday, February 4, 2005

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 
Sosa ready to start over in role vvith nevv team. 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -He signed autographs, praised manager Lee Mazzilli and took great care in avoiding use of the word "I" when discussing his goals for this year. 
Still smarting from the backlash of his final days with the Chicago Cubs, Sammy Sosa was determined to make a good first impression with the Baltimore Orioles on Wednesday. He really didn't have to try so hard. because the Orioles clearly were delighted to have him on their side. 
The trade that sent Sosa from the Cubs became official after commissioner Bud Selig approved the deal and the slugger passed his physical. Chicago received second baseman Jerry Hairston Jr. and two minor leaguers. sec­ond baseman Mike Fontenot and right-handed pitcher Dave Crouthers. 
Sosa has 574 home runs. seventh on the career list. and will almost certainly join the exclusive 600-homer club this season. He insisted that reaching the milestone is sec­ondary to becoming an inte­gral part of his new club. 
"The 600 is going to come. What's important to me is to have a great relationship with my manager and the whole team," he said. ''I'm not thinking about 600. I'm think­ing about being comfortable, relaxed and to be loved again." 
Sosa was once revered in Chicago, but the relationship between him and the fans began to deteriorate two years ago when he was caught using a corked bat. Last season was worse ­Sosa complained about being dropped to sixth in the bat­ting order by manager Dusty Baker and walked out on the team before the conclusion of the final game. 
The Cubs didn't want to go through more of the same this year, so they literally paid the Orioles to take him off their hands. 
"I feel sad that it had to end the way that it did," Cubs general manager Jim Hendry said. "Obviously, he made some mistakes late in the year. But he really deserves a better fate than has been cast upon him the last couple of months." 
Hendry hopes Cubs fans remember Sosa for his bright smile, boyish enthusiasm and potent bat. 
''I'm hoping he will not be viewed as someone who did a lot of wrong things in his last few months on the job," Hendry said. "He was great to the fans to the fans for a lot of years, and that's how he should be viewed. When he's done, we're going to talk about 600, maybe 700 home runs, and certainly a place in Cooperstown. He did a lot of good things." 
Sosa loved his 13 years with the Cubs, yet he happily put all that behind him upon join­ing the Orioles. 
"I gave Chicago everything that I have. It was a beautiful experience for my wife and family," he said. "I had a great time in Chicago, but you have to move on. This is my new house, and I love it." 
Sosa enjoyed his time in Chicago, but is eager to start anew. 
"My legacy is there, but I haven't finished yet. The best of Sammy Sosa is coming now," he said. "I wanted to finish my career there, but it didn't happen. I'm here now in Baltimore and I'm going to win the crowd." 
The Cubs will pay $16.15 million of the $25 million Sosa was still owed under his $72 million, four-year agree­ment, according to details obtained by The Associated Press. Baltimore is responsi­ble for just $8.85 million of Sosa's $17 million salary this year, with the Cubs paying the rest. 
The Orioles have him under contract for only one year, but Sosa said he wants to finish his career in Baltimore. If he performs up to expectations, an extension is a distinct pos­sibility. 
"He's got the drive, the determination, the will to win," Mazzilli said. "I think the people of Baltimore will be very excited this summer. It's a good time for us." 
And for the Cubs. 
"It's a good situation for Sammy, it's a good situation for the Baltimore Orioles and it's also something we feel is in our best interests," Hendry said. 
Chicago made an immediate move to shore up its lineup, agreeing to a one-year con­tract with Jeromy Burnitz that guarantees the outfielder $5 million. 
Even though his bat isn't as potent as it was five years ago, the 36-year-old Sosa hit 35 homers in only 126 games last season. 
"A lot of people say my numbers are down." he said, "but I was out for almost 40 games and I hit 35 home runs. C'mon." 
The Orioles entered the off­season looking for a right­handed power hitter. and Sosa should provide some pop in the cleanup spot batting behind Miguel Tejada and ahead of.Rafael Palmeiro. 
"It's one of the best lineups in the game," Orioles vice president Mike Flanagan said. 
SENIORS Do y<>ur pa.-~nt.s need a platce 1:..::> srtaoy f'or <3raduat:ion? 
CALL 
Bed eN Breakt'ast: Registry 1--lousing ND Parents since '1983 
574-2.32.-0774 888-830-7722 

Burnitz going to Chicago 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO -Don't look for Jeromy Burnitz to go sprint­ing out to right field at the start of the game or hop when he hits a home run. 
He may be the man replac­ing Sammy Sosa, but he's not going to try and be Sammy Sosa. 
"If we play well and every­body does good, it'll all be fine," the outfielder said Wednesday after agreeing to a $5 million, one-year contract with the Cubs. 
The Cubs finally completed their deal that sent Sosa to the Baltimore Orioles on Wednesday afternoon. Chicago is paying $16.15 mil­lion of the $25 million Sosa was still owed under his $72 million, four-year agreement, according to details obtained by The Associated Press. 
In return, the Cubs get Jerry Hairston Jr., second baseman Mike Fontenot and right-han­der Dave Crouthers. 

But that still left them with a hole in the outfield. Though general manager Jim Hendry said he considered Magglio Ordonez, the former White Sox All-Star was looking for more money and a longer contract than the Cubs were willing to give. 
So Hendry focused on Burnitz, a player he'd tried to get in 2003. Burnitz is a career .254 hitter with 275 home runs and 845 RBis in 11-plus seasons in the majors, and he's hit at least 30 homers in six of the last seven years. 
He had one of his best years in 2004, leading the Colorado Rockies with 37 homers and finishing second with 110 RB!s. He also hit .307 with runners on base. 
"We changed t!le complex­ion of our ballclub a. little bit," Hendry said. "It makes our club more left-handed, more versatile. It gives Dusty a vari­ety of things to do in the out­field, gives us a lot of balance. 

AP Jeremy Burnltz reaches for a ball In a game last season. The Cubs signed him to a one-year deal Thursday. 
We got better defensively in a lot of ways. "We feel good about the changes that were made." . 
Under terms of the deal. Burnitz will make $4.5 million this year. There is a mutual $7 million option for 2006 that includes a $500,000 buy­out. Burnitz doesn't get the buyout if the team exercises the option and he declines it. 
The contract also includes $250,000 per year in per­formance bonuses based on games started. 
The Cubs had been looking to deal Sosa since the end of the season. when the slugger skipped out on the final game. Sosa then lashed out at man­ager Dusty Baker the next day, saying he'd been made the scapegoat for the Cubs' failings. 
Though everyone said the bad feelings could have been repaired with a good heart-to­heart at spring training, it was a distraction the Cubs dido 't need. 
"I just really hope Sammy does well and I just hope he's happy," Baker said. "I hope it helps us. I hope it helps every­body." 
The Cubs don't have to worry about getting attitude from Burnitz or Hairston. Burnitz is known as a good clubhouse guy. a friendly, laid-back sort who will fit in well. Hairston is young and personable, and thrilled to be returning to his hometown. 
Hairston's father and grand­father played for the crosstown rival White Sox, and he grew up in suburban Naperville. 
"I have a lot of friends and family in Chicago," he said. ''I'm really excited, but I think they might be more excited ­if that's possible." 






SUNDAY. FEBRUARY 6 
4;..~ft. pm···....... • DeBarto~o Center for the
WJU· •. •.·.·· ... · Perfornnng Arts 
rfJ'/;utJ f?lJerttl9J1'1'fhcvtl!Jj ~a1n6ur ·~~tluJJt)(tt 
Featuring an enchanting journey into the Parisian mystique and magic that influenced some of history's greatest composers. 
• 
Guiseppe Verdi: Preludes to Acts I &Ill from La Traviata 

• 
Luigi Boccherini: 'Cello Concerto in B-flat Major (Delrieu/Gendron Edition) 

• 
Gioachino Rossini: Ballet Music from (Pas de six) from Guillaume Tell 

• 
Jacques Offenbach: Barcarolle from Les Contes d'Hoffmann 

• 
W.A. Mozart: Symphony No. 31 in DMajor, "Paris" 


Tickets: Adults $17 • Seniors $16 • Students $8 574-235-9190 • southbendsymphony.com 

K;;·;,a:~Ai 
O'llo)01)91:9)('f'( 
~~tl~ 

Guest Artist Underwriter: ~KU 

Christine, Andrew and Mack Richardson 



OUND THE NATION 
hiday, Pebruary 4, 2005 CoMPILED FROM T11E 0HSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
ITA Men's Tennis Poll 
team record points 

1 Baylor (9) 3-0 675 2 UCLA 6-0 666 3 Florida 1-0 657 4 Georgia 2-0 648 5 Illinois 2-0 639 6 Mississippi 1-0 630 7 Stanford 2-0 621 8 usc 3-1 612 9 Duke 2-0 603 10 Virginia 2-0 594 11 Ohio State 2-0 585 12 lSU 3-0 576 13 Kentucky 2-0 567 14 vcu 7-0 558 15 Texas A&M 2-0 544 16 TCU 1-0 541 17 Tulane 2-0 532 18 Washington 4-0 515 19 Vanderbilt 4-0 507 20 Arkansas 2-1 504 21 Auburn 0-0 492 22 Tennessee 3-0 474 23 Harvard 2-0 467 24 Pepperdine 3-1 464 25 NOTRE DAME 6-0 454 
ITA Women's Tennis Poll 
team record points 

1 Stanford (8) 1·0 600 2 Florida 2·0 592 3 Clemson 1-0 584 4 UClA 3-0 574 5 Northwestern 3-1 570 6 Vanderbilt 4·0 567 7 usc 2-0 566 8 Duke 2-0 544 9 Texas 1-0 536 10 Tulane 1-1 528 11 Washington 5·0 520 12 Miami (Fla.) 1-0 518 13 Georgia 3·0 498 14 Kentucky 3-1 490 15 North Carolina 4-0 485 16 Texas A&M 1-2 472 17 California 2-0 460 18 Tennessee 2·2 450 19 TCU 0·0 449 20 NOTRE DAME 3-1 440 21 Michigan 2-2 432 22 Fresno State 1·0 422 23 LSU 4·0 410 24 New Mexico 0·1 402 25 BYU 5·1 394 
Men's College Basketball Big East Standings 
NFL 


Associated Press 
JACKSQNVILLE. Fla. -NPL career rushing leader Emmitt Smith retired Thursday, calling his 15-year career "a tremendous ride." 
Smith, who starred for the Dallas Cowboys for 13 seasons and spent the last two years with Arizona, made the announcement at the Super Bowl -a fitting spot for a three-time champion. 
''I've given everything I can possi­ble to the game, on and ofT the field," Smith said. 
Wearing a pinstripe suit -blue, of course -Smith thanked dozens of people from Pee Wee football to the Cardinals and every stop in-between. lie broke down several times and had tears streaming down his face as 
IN BRIEF 
Titans interested in Chow 
NASHVILLE -Tennessee coach Jeff Fisher wants to talk with Southern California offensive coordi­nator Norm Chow about the Titans' coordinator job. 
Fisher, a USC alumnus, is looking for a new offensive coordinator after losing Mike lleimerdinger to the New York JeLc; last month. 
lie has interviewed assistant head coach George Henshaw and quarter­backs coach Craig Johnson off his own staiT. 
But Fisher had held ofT talking with college coaches until national signing day passed on Wednesday. 
Fisher said on radio Thursday morning that he is trying to talk with Chow and a Titans spokesman said Chow is one of many coaches Fisher is interested in. 
Chow, 58, has helped groom Carson Palmer and Matt Leinart into lleisman Trophy winners at USC where the Trojans have won the national title the past two seasons. 

he clutched his wife's hand. 
"The memories that I have, the relationships that I'm taking away from the game are something dear and something I will take with me for the rest of my life," he said. ''I'm moving on to another chapter in my life and that's a chapter I'm looking forward to." 
Smith said he planned to pursue some business opportunities but vowed to stay close to the game and give something back to the fans. 
Cowboys owner Jerry Jones, one of the many Smith thanked through tears, gave the best reason for the long list of salutations. 
"When you've established yourself as royalty, then you have to mention everybody," Jones said. "That's the price you pay." 
lie spent 27 years at Brigham Young working with quarterbacks such as lleisman Trophy winner Ty Detmer, Steve Young and Jim McMahon -a former teammate of Fisher's. Jackson suspended one game without pay 
NEW YORK -Indiana guard Stephen Jackson was suspended for one game without pay by the NBA on Thursday for verbal abuse of a game official at the end of the Pacers' 98­97 home loss to Toronto on Wednesday night. 
Jackson, suspended for 30 games earlier this season for his role in the brawl in Detroit, will miss the Pacers' home game against Dallas on Friday night. 
Jackson was called for a foul against Toronto's Jalen Rose with 0.4 seconds left. leading to Rose's win­ning free throws. World Series ball on display
in Boston BOSTON -The ball used for the final out of thn Boston's first World 
The 35-year-old Smith ran for 18,355 yards and 164 touchdowns in his career. both NFL records. lie rushed for 937 yards and nine touch­downs for the Cardinals this season. 
Smith said the Cardinals had decid­ed not to re-sign him for next year. 
"That made my decision a whole lot easier," Smith said, adding that he turned down offers to continue his career elsewhere. "I have a home. It's with my family." 
Smith was more consistent than he was spectacular, a running back who could be relied on to get tough yards when tough yards were needed. 
lie rushed for 1,000 yards or more every year between 1991 and 2001. lie led the NFL in rushing in 1991. 1992 and 1995 and in touchdowns in three diiTerent seasons. 
team 
Boston College Syracuse Pittsburgh Georgetown Connecticut NOTRE DAME VIllanova Seton Hall West VIrginia St. John's Rutgers Providence 
conf 
8·0 7·1 5-2 6-3 5-3 5-3 4-4 2·5 2·6 2·6 1·7 0-7 
overall 
19·0 
20·2 15-3 14-6 13-5 13-5 12-5 10-8 
12-7. 
8-10 7-11 10-11 

around the dial NBA 
Dallas at Indiana 7:00p.m., ESPN Houston at Minnesota 9:30 p.m., ESPN 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL (SATURDAY) Kansas at Nebraska 12:00 p.m., ESPN NOTRE DAME at Syracuse 9:00 p.m., ESPN 
Series title in 86 years got star treat­ment when it was brought to Fenway Park on Thursday. 
With a nearby meter maid tickPt· ing cars but few fans, if any, looking on, two armored guards carried the ball in a black canvas bag down a red carpet that had been laid out along Yawkey Way -and brought it inside the ballpark. 
The ball has been the subject of a tussle between the team and its for­mer first baseman, Doug Mientkiewicz, who caught the linal out and kept it. While ownership hasn't been resolved, he agreed last week to loan the ball to the Hed Sox for at least one year. 
"I want the fans to see it. and that's what both the Red Sox and I agreed on." Mientkiewicz said last week after he was traded to the New York Mets. "They waited a long tim!' to see that ball and to live it. The fact that I had it was just so we could keep it and give it to the fans and let them see it." 
Friday, February 4, 2005 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Flying Dutch will be a challenge for Belles 
Hope is No.1 team in the MIAA in most categories 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
Coming off two disappointing losses, things do not get any easier for Saint Mary's on Saturday. The Belles take on perennial MIAA power Hope College at the Angela Athletic Center at 3 p.m. 
Saint Mary's has struggled in its last two games against two of the best teams the con fer­ence has to offer. On Jan. 26, the Belles fell at home to first­place Albion 73­
59. On Wednes­
basically going to come back and play through it for now." 
Last year's MIAA Defensive Player of the Year, Boyce will provide a boost for Saint Mary's with her quickness and tireless defensive effort. Her comeback also lends some much needed depth to the recently thin Belles rotation. 
Saint Mary's takes further encouragement from its last meeting with the Flying Dutch. Although the Belles did lose to Hope by 14 points on Jan. 8, the game was on the road and fairly competitive. The Belles feel that the outcome could very well be different on Saturday. 
"They are top in the confer­ence right now. I think it raises 
our level of play 
when we play 

day, Saint Mary's "/ think it raises them. You step it got down early at up to the next
our level ofplay

Calvin and never level. This is the recovered, losing when we play second time that 62-46. [Hope]." we are playing 
Coach Suzanne them. I think we Bellina believes know what to
Katie Boyce

that a lack of on­expect. We have a court chemistry is Belles guard good chance," 
at the root of her team's recent problems. 
"We haven't been connected as a team as much as we need to be out there on the court," Bellina said. "The effort is there. but it's just not clicking right now." 
The Belles better hope to get things straightened out in a hurry. Hope has won four of the last five MIAA conference titles, and the team has been nothing short of dominant this season. 
Coming into the game, the Flying Dutch have rattled off 11 straight wins. and sit atop the conference in a tie for first place with Albion. The team ranks second in the MIAA in scoring, averaging 74 points per contest. Hope also tops the conference in team defense, limiting opponents to only 53.8 points per game. In their last game, the Flying Dutch smoked Adrian by 40 points. 
"They are very athletic and always very deep," Bellina said of Hope. "They also can throw a lot of different looks at you defensively." 
However, Saint Mary's does have some reasons for opti­mism heading into the game. Senior guard Katie Boyce will return to the lineup well ahead of schedule. Boyce had been sidelined for the past six games with a torn tendon in her foot. 
"I am definitely playing on Saturday," Boyce said. "[The injury] takes six weeks to heal. I was out for three. and I am Boyce said. 
Saint Mary's realizes how important a victory over Hope would be at this point in the season, as the Belles continue to pursue the coveted fourth spot in the conference and look towards the tournament. 
"A win would be huge. It would give us some confi­dence," Bellina said. "If we want to make some noise in the tourney, we need to learn how to win against these top teams." 
Boyce sees Saturday's game as an opportunity to make a statement about the Saint Mary's program. 
"It would kind of seal the deal for what we have been trying to do as the senior class in getting more respect for Saint Mary's around the conference," Boyce said. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
!ERASMUS BOOKS : • Used Books bought and sold : • 25 Categories of Books •• 25,000 Hardback and : Paperback books in stock : • Out-of-Print search service 
'. Appraisals large and small 
OPEN noon to six Tuesdar through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 
WOMEN'S TRACK 

Irish face tough opponents in the Meyo Invitational this weekend 
Cowan will finally be challenged in the high jump Saturday 
By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 

The "preseason" has ended for the Notre Dame women. 
After dominating the compe­tition in their first three non scoring meets, the Irish take to the Loftus track this weekend for their first major test of the season, the Meyo Invitational. 
Four of Trackwire.com's top­25 teams will compete this weekend including No. 7 Michigan. No. 12 Notre Dame, No. 18 Georgia Tech and No. 25 Mississippi. 
A bevy of talented athletes will provide the Irish with the competition they have lacked to this point in the season. The signature event. the Meyo Mile, will feature two of the top four milers in the NCAA. both from Michigan. 
Stacey Cowan, Notre Dame's All-American high jumper. who has not been threatened this year, will also face stiff compe­tition. Georgia Tech's Chaunte Howard, is thought by some to be the best high jumper in the nation. 
When asked if his team was ready for the increased level of competition. coach Tim Connelly was confident and his response reflected his team's al)ticipation. 
"We are looking forward to [the meet]," Connelly said. ''I'm especially excited for our kids that have already accom­plished a great deal this sea­son. They'll get a chance to compete against some of the top athletes." 

With the high level of compe­tition expected. much of the lineup juggling that has occurred in the passed two weeks will come to an end. Athletes will be competing in events with which they are most comfortable and familiar. Stephanie Madia, for example, will be running the 3,000 meters a week after running the 800 meters. She and fresh­man Sunni Olding will anchor an Irish distance team that is 
<>-K 
KeyBank 
DI.RO.N 
ENDS 
:Jii:{N:,,~HEON SERIES 
still without two of its star run­ners in Molly Huddle and Lauren King. 
Despite having two of his top runners on the sideline. Connelly felt confident that his entire team could succeed in and benefit from this meet. 
"Our goal is simply to improve," he said. "Even our runners who aren't quite in top form yet will get a chance to compete and succeed in the secondary heats. Hopefully with a little more intensity, all of our runners can step up to the level of competition this weekend." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 

Tuesday. February 22. 
ll:30a.m. 
CenturyCenter 

$35 per person or$270 for a table ofeight 57'+-235-5715 
TM 


.i;,;,,,,,;,,,:,iiiiii]JI fj:la~~~~~ appearances this year will include Radio, from the motion 
:}j"'f~~f~rj:'4ii>••j9adioo, •• and Heisman Trophy winner Desmond Howard. 
among others.  
111 S. St. Joseph Street South Bend, Indiana 46601 www.colle~e/ootball.org  ~()O'tBALl. Po.tm'  

South Bend llibune 
Discover what's mIt for you. 
Friday, february 4, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish square off with 'Horns 
No. 25 Notre Dame hosts No. 34 Texas this afternoon 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame men's tennis tnam. now ranked No. 25 after a 6-0 start to the spring season. is set for another challenging weekend of action. as it plays host to No. 34 Texas (1-0) today at 4 p.m. and No. 9 Duke (2-0) on Sunday at noon in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Last weekend, Notre Dame daimed its l,OOOth all-time vic­tory Saturday by upsetting No. 18 North Carolina 5-2 before edging No. 41 Florida State 4-3 Sunday. The Irish won the dou­bles point and three of the four straight-set singles matches against the Tar Heels to regis­ter their first win against a top­25 team since 2002. They won at the bottom two spots in dou­bles. and then senior captain Brnnt D'Amico and sophomore Hyan Knckley almost pulled ofT an upset of the No. 9 team in college tennis, Geoff Boyd and Brad l'omeroy. Neither team r.ould break serve in the entire match. and the North Carolina duo eventually won 9-8 (7-5). In singles, the Irish got two-set wins at Nos. 6 and 4 before sophomore Barry King won a tight two setter -6-4, 7-6 (7­
0) -against Boyd at No. 3 to clinch the victory. Notre Dame then got a three-set win at No. 2 and appeared to be on the verge of another one at No. 5, but North Carolina's Derek Porter fought off two match points and rallied to win the final four games of the match in taking the third set 7-5. 
On Sunday, the Irish led 3-2 with the No. 3 and No. 4 matches left on the court. In what turned out to be the deci­sive match. Notre Dame fresh­man Sheeva Parbhu broke serve three times in the final set for a 3-6, 6-4, 6-3 triumph against Chris Westerhof at No. 4, clinching the Irish triumph. In the other match, 91st­ranked Jeff Groslimond eventu­ally outlasted 112th-ranked King 6-7 (1-7). 7-5, 7-6 (7-5). Notre Dame won at the top two spots to win the doubles point, with Parbhu and junior Eric Langenkamp upsetting the 32nd-ranked team of Groslimond and Westerhof 8-4 at No. 2. In singles, the Irish got straight-set victories at Nos. 6 and 2, while North Carolina won in two sets at Nos. 5 and 1 to set the stage for the final two contests. 
The Longhorns, No. 34 in the latest Intercollegiate Tennis Association national rankings, opened their spring slate last weekend with a 5-2 road victo­ry against No. 33 Southern Methodist. After playing the Irish, Texas will head to No. 5 Illinois for a Saturday evening contest. The Longhorns returned two starters from last year's squad that finished 15­12 and 36th in the national rankings after beating Auburn (4-3) in the opening round of the NCAA Championship and then losing at Georgia (4-2). Texas finished third in the Big XII Conference (5-2 record) and lost to Texas Tech in the quarterfinals of the league tournament. Gone from that team are Antonio Ruiz, an NCAA singles qualifier who ended 36th in the rankings, and .Jose Zarhi, who earned a trip to the NCAA Doubles Championship with Huiz, and finished ranked 12th. Nonetheless, the Longhorns come to Notre Dame with three players in the national singles rankings, as well as one ranked doubles team. Leading the way is junior Roger Gubser, who is 
53rd with a 17-5 record, including a 7-5, 7-5 win against SMU's Paul McNaughton ­who played two seasons at Notre Dame -at No. 2. One of his fall victories was a 6-4, 6-2 decision against Notre Dame's Parbhu in the semifinals of the Midland Invitational. Freshman Travis Helgeson -whose younger brother Brett llelgeson has signed a national letter of intent to play for Notre Dame next season -is ranked 69th with an 11-3 record, while jun­ior Callum Beale of Australia is 93rd but playing No. 1 for the Longhorns. In doubles, Beale and Helgeson are 45th with a 6-1 record, though they are not playing together any longer. Beale and Gubser, who regis­tered an 8-5 win against Parbhu and D'Amico en route to winning the Midland Invitational title, are now play­ing No. 1 for Texas. Head coach Michael Center is in his fifth season leading Texas, having compiled a 76-29 (. 724) record there and a 235-97 (. 708) career mark in 15 years as a head coach (previously at TCU and .Kansas). 
MEN'S TRACK 

Tvvo Irish athletes to run Meyo Mile 

suit of victory, and the ever­
Former Irish runner 
elusive four minutes. 

Luke Watson to run Benninger had a breakout day Saturday at the Notre
the mile Saturday Dame Indoor Invitational, scorching the field in the 3,000 meters with a
By NATHAN DYER 
7:59.39. Breaking the
Spom Writer 

eight-minute mark was, for Benninger, a great accom­Every sport has the one plishment, an accomplish. 
2005 SUMMER RESIDENCE HALL STAFF 
The Office of Residence Life and Housing is currently accepting applications for summer positions. 
• 
Be part of a successful team 

• 
Share your Notre Dame experience 

• 
Meet new people 



The application and additional information is avail&ble in the Office of Residence Life and Housing or on-line. at: 
orlh.nd.edu/employment 

Applications: on-line until Feb. 23 Interview sign-up: Feb. 23-March 4 Interviews: March 15-24 
Sign-up and interviews will be 1n 305 Main Building. 
OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE AND HOUSING 
Phone: (,)1-5!!7!! E-Mail: sumstafl(i1!nd.cdu

ofl&fi 
milestone that separates the good player from the great player -a milestone that has been reached by only a handful of athletes. Football has the 2,000-yard rushing season, baseball has Joe DiMaggio's 56-consecutive game hit streak. Track has the four-minute mile. 
This Saturday, athletes from around the country, from Michigan to Ole Miss, will gather at the Loftus Sports Center to attempt to break four minutes in the 15th annual Meyo Invitational. Two Notre Dame athletes, senior Eric Morrison and sophomore Kurt Benninger, will lead the Irish men's team in pur­


Rentals Available 
large Selection of Game Tables, Supplies and Table Toppers. 505!0 St. Rd. 933N • South 8end 


574w272w1617 
ment he looks to better this 
Saturday. 
"I was really happy to 
break eight minutes," 
Benninger said. "I But) to 
break four minutes in the 
mile has always been a 
huge goal of mine." 
For the senior Morrison, a sub-four-minute mile has been an elusive goal, but one which is well within his reach. Having already post­ed a 4:01 mile during his career, Morrison is very close to breaking that barri­er. 
.Just breaking four min­utes, however, might not be enough for the Irish athletes to claim victory, as this year's race is expected to feature the defending NCAA mile champion and half a dozen runners with person­al best times under 4:05. Just last year, the top-five finishers in the Meyo Mile all broke four minutes. Heturning champion and Notre Dame graduate Luke Watson will return to attempt to defend his title. 

The mile is not the only attraction at the Meyo Invitational, however. as senior hurdler Selim Nurudeen looks to continue his dominance in the 60 meter hurdles, and the rest of the Irish squad take to the field in pursuit of Big East and NCAA qualifying. Events start tonight, but all of the finals will take place Saturday between 2:00 p.m. and 4:30 with the Meyo Mile starting at 2:30p.m. 
Contact Nathan Dyer at ndyer@nd.edu 
Friday, February 4, 2005 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
FENCING 
No. 2 Irish -won't face No. 1 OSU 
Teams can't dual because of NCAA competition rules 
By ERIC RETTER 
Sports Writer 
When the No. 1 and No. 2 teams are in the same gym at the same time. the sporting world expects a great athletic contest. 
That world will be sorely disappointed this w~ekend, as the Irish. who are No. 2 in the women's polls and No. 4 in the men's. will not line up against consensus No. 1 Ohio State this weekend, despite traveling to Columbus to com­pete in the Ohio State duals. 
According to NCAA fencing rules. teams are not allowed to face each other more than twice during the regular sea­son. and the two teams have already squared off in both the NYU Duals and the Notre Dame D-uals. and while the women exacted revenge with a 16-11 win at their host tour­nament a week after falling 14-13. the men lost 16-11 in both matches. Since the Irish and Buckeyes have already maxed out their time together. Saturday's duals will be with­out a marquee matchup. 
Irish head coach Janusz Bednarski is glad that at least one of his teams got their vengeance against their rival at the top. 
"Most teams we will fence only once, but Ohio [State] demanded revenge, and we beat them [last weekend]." he said. 
Because his team will not see Ohio State, Bednarski does not expect the weekend to be challenging for his squads. 
"It is another encounter, and we always have to be serious; but it looks as though it will be easy because the teams aren't highly ranked," he said. 
The teams that make up this unintimidating field include Bowling Green. Case Western. Cleveland State, Detroit, Michigan, Michigan State, Oberlin, Purdue and Wayne State. The highlight bouts for the Irish will likely come against Wayne State. as Irish fifth-year Kerri Walton and sophomore Amy Orlando, both of whom were extremely suc­cessful last weekend, will face defending NCAA champion Anna Garina of Wayne State. 

The Irish will also be rejoined by Olympic Gold Medalist and freshman sabre Marie! Zagunis, who missed all but two matches in last Sunday's duals to fly home to take part in the annual Oregon Sports Awards. Zagunis won the 2004 Bill Hayward for the Amateur Female Athlete of the Year and despite the accomplish­ment and the length of travel, Zagunis was back at Notre Dame by Monday af~ernoon. 
"I was really only home about 12 hours," she said. 
The men's team will be led by senior Michal Sobieraj and sophomore Aaron Adjemian. the backbone of a men's epee unit that has yet to be beaten this season, winning all 16 of their matches and a primary source of the men's team's success. 
While the event may not have the competition the Irish have grown accustomed to in the last few weeks. Bednarski is quick to point out that it should under no circum­stances be overlooked. 
"It's important to get a good rank for the Midwest Conference, and this [week­end's event] has tournament seeding implications," he said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

Irish face Oakland in final dual meet 
Home team has won every time in series 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer 
In the series history between Notre Dame and Oakland. the home team has won every meet, a trend that doesn't bocfe well for the Irish on this week­end's road trip. But if Notre Dame has proven anything this year, it's that past history means nothing when it comes to pres­ent success. 

"We're amb,lious about changing that history," Irish coach Tim Welsh said. "This has been a season full of great improvement. A win Saturday would give us a 10 win season, and those are quite rare." 
This weekend's meet in Rochester, Mich., represents a key opportunity for the Irish to fine-tune their performances. 

"We have high expectations ­this is a very important compe­tition for us on Saturday. Some of us see it as the last meet of · the season; others. as the last chance to prepare for the Big East championships," Welsh said. "Every event we're swim­ming Saturday, we'll also swim at the Big East championships. That's why we're not looking past Saturday. because we're not going to be good in New York unless we're good now. We need to be good now so we can be better in New York." 
With the progress the Irish have made this season. the 


WILL OPEN AT 4PM ON FEBRIMRY 6TH, SUPE LSUNDAY. 
CALL 1-2924 FOR DELIVERY 

team is optimistic for the approaching Big East competi­tion. 
"We know we've trained well and 'raced well; the focus, ener­gy and commitment have been there," Welsh said. "To their credit, this team has beei1 incredibly focused. They've done a great job of taking one game at a time. one meet at a time and still focusing on the final goal." 
The Irish enter the match with plenty of momentum after wins on the road last weekend against Cleveland State and St. Bonaventure, and hopP to extend that into the Big East championships with a victory this weekend. 
"Wp feel the monwnturn and energy after last weekend. and our spirits arP pretty good right now." Welsh said. "We've focused all year on being our very best at the end of the year. and we're getting very close to that." 
For the seniors on the. team. Saturday's meet will mark the final dual meet of their careers. 
"The seniors have been absolutely instrumental in our success this year; great seasons only come with seniors racing at their best," Welsh said. "This time, there's no next time. They're going to be alumni after this, so whatever they want to get done, they have to get done now. We hope that brings out their best and causes some good things to happen." 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy 1 @nd.edu 
WE ACCEPT 
«~ 
Domert)K:d·m··i<. 
·fl-e)<iH!.i •::::;:::::·: 




Friday, February 4, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Orange 
continued from page 24 
70-61 the last time the teams met Jan. 10. The Irish led by eight points with 14:12 to play, but the Orange outscored Notre Dame 27-10 the rest of the way. Syracuse shot 50 per­cent from the field, cruising behind 22 points from Gerry McNamara and 16 points on 8­of-11 shooting from Josh Pace. 
Though Notre Dame did not establish an inside presence against Syracuse's trademark 2-3 zone, Brey said the Orange also were a handful on the other end of the court. 
"What's lost in the whole thing is how good they are offensively," he said. "They shoot 50 percent from the noor and they put numbers up. Our transition defense is as important against Syracuse as it was the other day against Connecticut. They really run." 
Brey said Syracuse thrived in transition off the 17 Irish turnovers in their last meeting. 
"We have to be better there," he said. "I thought we did play pretty well for about 35 min-
ST. STEPHEN'S & ST. AGNES SCHOOL, an Episcopal day school located in ALEXANDRIA, VIRGINIA, is hiring for the following positions for the 2005-2006 school year: Upper School openings: 
10
•History Position: World History, two year sequence for 9th and 1h graders. Includes western and nonwestern developing civilizations through the 171h century. History major required. Coaching preferred. •Chemistry Position: High School chemistry survey class and Advanced Placement Chemistry. Chemistry major preferred, science major required. Coaching preferred. 
Middle School anticipated openings: •Spanish 
•English 
•English/History Full time responsibilities including teaching four classes (usually two different preps) and one extracurricular duty. Salary and benefits are competitive for the Washington, D.C. area. 

David Faus, Assistant Head and Director of the Upper School, will be conducting interviews at Notre Dame on Wednesday, February 16th (30 minute interviews from 8:30-5:00). Please send your resume to dfaus@sssas.org if you are interested in applying. Or, you may apply through GO IRISH. The deadline for applying is midnight on February 8, 2005. Also, we will speak to anyone interested in teaching/ coaching. 

Fri., Feb. 4th Sat., Feb. 5th 
@7:35PM @7:05PM 

Joyce Center Fieldhouse Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
vs. vs. 

Nebraska-Omaha Nebraska-Omah *First 500 fans receive 
*First 500 fans receive a a schedule glass 

commemorative poster *Free bowl of chili to featuring Notre Dame early arriving fans Hockey Alumni 
E 


Irish Hockey X #1 0 Track and Field 
utes, but we turned it over a little too much." 
Notre Dame hopes to contin­ue improvement at the high and low post positions, as well. 
Center-Torin Francis explod­ed -visibly -on the Joyce Center court Sunday, going for 19 points and seven rebounds against Connecticut's heralded frontcourt. Forwards Dennis Latimore and Rick Cornett have also played well of late. 
"I would hope we can get some inside touches even against their zone, since I think our big men are going into this game more confident than they did last game," Brey said. 
Notre Dame was still in its one-dimensional offensive mode when it met Syracuse first. The team attempted 30 3-point shots, making nine as Chris Thomas converted on only 1-.of-11 from behind the arc. 
Pace, McNamara and Orange guard Billy Edelin defend the top of the Syracuse zone, with Hakim Warrick, Craig Forth and Terrance Hoberts primari­ly playing the baseline. 
The Orange have length that prevent easy entry passes inside and encourage teams to shoot from deep. 
Back on Jan. 10, Notre Datne's outside shooting was a huge problem. Now. after the Connecticut win, the Irish have a hope that poor 3-point shooting won't be alone in determining the outcome of a game. 
"I think just because we've been shooting the ball well, the guards have really been hitting on all cylinders." Thomas said. "So when we're not on, we need to rely on them every night." 
Nevertheless. Thomas ­along with guards Chris Quinn and Colin Falls -will look to improve shooting from the out­side to once again spread the Syracuse zone and make the Orange pay from the inside­out. 
Syracuse leads the all-time series with Notre Dame, 19­15, but the Irish are 8-8 in the Carrier Dome. 
The game will be broadcast on ESPN at 9 p.m. It will be the ninth of 15 nationally-tele­vised games for the Irish this season. Notre Dame is 3-5 on national TV thus far. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Win 
continued from page 24 
ence in the team's play at home this year. "At practice today we decided to go through our entire pre-game warm-up, because we've got to start better. 
"You'll look at some of our games and say that we played well, but it's tough because you're playing from behind most of the time in those games. I want to play with a lead and see the other team have to fight from behind and take some chances." 
The Irish dropped both games of a home-and-home series against Bowling Green last weekend, and have not won a CCHA game since Dec. 10 against Michigan State. Notre Dame currently sits in last place in the 12-member CCHA. while Nebraska-Omaha is in fourth with 22 points, three behind third-place Northern Michigan. 
Notre Dame has five of its last eight games at home, and the Irish are looking to finish out the year strong. 
"Right now we just want to win a game," Poulin said. "That's what we've got to do. I think winning a game re­enforces what you're doing ­all the little details. And then you play your next game and it's our chance to finish on a strong note going into the CCHA playoffs." 
In Nebraska-Omaha, the Irish are hosting one of the most-improved teams in the conference. 
After the 2003 season. the Mavericks finished the CCHA 
playoffs being played on Sunday leading up to the
ROTC 
final. continued from page 24 While the finished product 
is what the teams have come Sunday afternoon, directly for. the production behind following the women's final. the scenes may be the most The ROTC units from remarkable part of the Purdue, Marquette and weekend. Colorado have been putting "I am always impressed by 
together qual­ity teams for 
years, and "I am always have all come impressed by the 
with the same 
professional
goal -victo­
ry. organization skills of 
"Colorado the cadets setting up has a solid 
ifor the 
and physical 
tournament]."
team," Kogge said. Before 
Tim Kogge
thinking of 
co-captain A-team
the champi­onship, each 
team has to themselves for a few days. make it out of its respective "I love basketball, and I the bracket, all of which have event] is a lot of fun." Kogge been named for famous peo­said. ple in Notre Dame history. Teams play 3 bracket games Contact Eric Retter at today and Saturday, with the eretter@nd.edu 
Meyo Invitational 

Sat., Feb. 5th 
@ 2-4:30 pm 
Loftus Sports Center 

rf!? GOLD GAME'(~:
/''''''-''.'{ .}·· ·~ 
*First 100 fans receive a Gold Games T -shirt 
_.... 
regular season. in 11th place, but this year they startrd the season 4-0 and com1~ into the Joyce Center as one of the most consistent teams overall in the conference. 
"They've done a nice job of getting the right kids in there," Poulin said of Nebraska-Omaha's turn­around. "They do a lot of damage especially on the power play and have gotten consistent goaltending all year." 
One of the Mavericks' key elements to their turnaround has been the play of freshman forward Bill Thomas. Already the prohibitive favorite for CCI-lA rookie of the year, Thomas leads all conference players with 17 assists and is currently second overall in scoring with 26 points. 
Sophomore Scott Parse is right behind Thomas with 25 points. but the rest of the Mavericks are equally prolific at scoring. Nebraska-Omaha's average of 3.40 goals per game is third best in the con­ference -compared to Notre Dame's 1.55 goals per game average. 
Maverick goalie Chris Holt was one of the better fresh­man netminders in the confer­ence last season, and has seemed to avoid any sopho­more slump this year. His 2.63 goals-against average and .913 save percentage are both in the top-10 among CCHA goalies. 
Notre Dame faces Nebraska­Omaha at the Joyce Center tonight at 7:35 p.m. and Saturday night at 7:05p.m. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
the profession­al organization skills of the cadets setting up Ifor the tournament(" Kogge said. 
Whether or not they win, the cadets have made the jour­ney to South Bend to make some new friends and above all enjoy 
Panthers 
continued from page 24 
weekend. 
"It was a really close game last year, so I think we'll bring out that film and talk about that a little bit," McGraw said. "They're the kind of team that rebounds the ball well, they're pretty athletic in the post. So they're going to give us some trouble inside." 
Pittsburgh (11-9. 3-6) has lost its last three games to three tough conference opponents. The Panthers lost to Connecticut on Jan. 26 89-53, Boston College on Jan. 29 72-55 and Villanova Wednesday 70-49. 
Six-foot-three freshman cen­ter Mercedes Walker paces Pittsburgh by scoring more than 13 points per game, and team­mate Katie Histed adds 12 for a team that scores 65 points per contest. The Panthers also out­rebound opponents 42.5 to 39, which could pose a major prob­lem for a Notre· Dame team whose biggest weakness is con­trolling the glass. In Wednesday's win over No. 16 Boston College, the Irish scored 44 points in the paint, but were still outrebounded 45-32, including just nine offensive boards. 
"I apparently haven't been able to get [rebounding] across to them," McGraw said. "We talked about it all year long. They're just simply not doing it. One night the post rebound well and the guards don't. Then the guards rebound, and the post doesn't. It's really frustrating that they're just not doing their job." 
Notre Dame also has the chal­lenge of playing another game with short rest. Since Jan. 2, the Irish have not had more than three full days off between games, and that doesn't includ.e travel to away contests. McGraw said her team is much more mentally fatigued, than physi­cally at this point. 
"Mentally it's a grind. That's the problem," McGraw said. "We just haven't had that break yet. We've played every Sunday so we haven't had a day off on the weekend. Mentally it's really draining and so I just got to hope the upperclassmen have the mental toughness and can sustain it to bring the freshmen along." 
McGraw said All-American Jacqueline Batteast, who led Notre Dame with 15 points in 24 minutes Wednesday, is feeling better and should be healthy for Saturday after struggling with the stomach flu for the last two games. Forward Crystal Erwin has the same illness, and her status is more uncertain in terms of how many minutes she'll be able to log. Erwin was limited to just 12 minutes against Boston College. 
A win Saturday keeps the Irish near the top of the Big East rankings. While winning a Big East regular season title would be nice, McGraw said she and the team are more con­cerned with earning one of four first-round byes in the confer­ence tournament. 
"We need to get a bye," McGraw said. "So that's some­thing that makes every game so important." 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Final dual meet awaits Irish 
By MIKE TENNANT Sports Writer 

As the regular season winds down, the Irish appear to be winding up and have their sights set on a strong finish to the year. 
Notre Dame travels to Rochester. Mich., to take on the Oakland University Grizzlies Saturday for its final dual meet of the season. 
Notre Dame head coach • Bailey Weathers said this meet is mainly in preparation for the Big East Championships. 
"We set it up this way to give some kids a chance to make Big East cuts with a lit­tle rest," Weathers said. 
The Grizzlies are coming off a 159-144 victory over Michigan State and are unde­feated this season. They are a relatively new Division I team, and were previously excep­tional at the Division II level. 
"They're usually strong one person in each event," Weathers said. "I think in most of our spots we're at least as good as they are." 
Maria Musialczyk. Melissa Jaeger and Amanda Burwell lead Oakland, and each has won two events against Michigan State. 
The Irish, meanwhile, are led by senior All-American diver Meghan Perry-Eaton and swimmers Katie Carroll and Christel Bouvron. 
Perry-Eaton has won 17 of 

Friday, February 4, 2005 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 

the 18 events she has entered this season and t;as not lost off the 3-meter board in her last 21 dual meets. dating back to November 2002. 
Carroll has already posted a NCAA "B" cut in both the 200 and 400-yard individual med­ley, and is the defending Big East Champion in the 200. Her time of 2:03.75 against Michigan last week was the fastest 200 individual medley time in the Big East this year. 
Bouvron fell just short of a NCAA "B" cut against Michigan in a dominating 200 butterfly performance that left her about five seconds ahead of the pack. Bouvron also notched a victory in the 100­yard butterfly. 
The junior is a two-time Olympian for her native 
Singapore and finished 32nd in the 200-meter butterfly at the 2004 games in Athens. 
Despite the Big East Championships being less than two weeks away, Weathers is confident the Irish will be focused on the task at hand Saturday. 
"I think we'll be pretty focused because a lot of peo­ple are swimming things they haven't in the last two dual meets, and the rest are swim­ming events that are pretty important to them in terms of making their cut for the Big East," Weathers said. 
The swimming will begin at 2 p.m. 
Contact Mike Tennant at rntennant@nd.edu 


.---------------------------------------------~----~-­
Friday, February 4, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
• 
DILBERT 
SCOTT ADAMS 


PEANUTS 
t1M A ~UMAN BEING AND YOU'RE A DOG ... 

HUMAN BEINGS ARE 
BIGGER AND SMARTER 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
f ALWAYS FORGET ABOUT TEETH .. 
JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
RINPT 
riJ I I 
02005 Tnbune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
FEBOG ~ 
1 
ri I I 
BAGLEM 
rJ I 
www.JUmble.com
t
ENMIRE ± 
J I r J I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 

-4 
WHY THE WINDOW WA?HER TOOK A ~RE:AK. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon 
A: FOR 

..rI xI J" rI I I I xJ 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles SINGE CABIN UPSHOT RADIUSYesterday's 
Answer: What the deep-voiced guy turned into when he joined the prison quartet-A STRIPED "BASS" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 21 Stop along the 
way

1 Parts of some Correggio 28 "It's not clear-paintings cut" 
8 Handheld 30 It may be hair-shooter raising 
15 Beyond the blue 
31 Some jars and 16 Calixa Lavallee bottles composition 
33 Out of the blue? 17 1962 #1 hit for 
36 Bugbear

five weeks 40 Not to be taken
19 Natural shades 
seriously 20 Idea of a 
41 Veins

musical composition 42 Had 
21 Fortune 43 Boxer's attire 
22 Drivers' 
44 Recipe phrase choices: Abbr. 
45 Protein unit 23 "I Was War 
Bride" 
46 Opening for light?

24 Mother of Artemis 
47 Plain 

25 Umpire's call 48 Romance in verse
26 Tarzan film actress Markey 49 Senior's and others complaint 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

··~~!f!l. ~-,+-:-+:-:+,.+.=+::-i
. ~...t=+-:+.i:+::=+:':;-1 
~~ll[U~~Ut!j~n9.l.
1-; 
~..,+-:-+:-:+=-! 
__.___.___.__...__. 


52 Bar 
53 Activity of one who's paper­trained? 
54 Became involved in 
55 Cobbles, in a way 
DOWN 1 How best to 
judge 2 Adam or Eve 3 Terse R.S.V.P. 4 Victim of 
Hermes 5 They're pitchfork­shaped 6 "Talk to _," 2002 Almod6var 
film 1 Drudge's place 8 Types 9 "Where 
from ..." 10 Dog of literature 11 Some income: 
Abbr. 
12 Document seals 13 Magazine 
publishinJ into 14 What some celebrations are centered around 
18 Didn't really hit 
23 Automaker Citroen 
24 Rotten 
26 1nk, in 1sere 
WILL SHORTZ 

21 Puts on an  3ilead  45 Start  
unhappy face  ceremoniously  
29 Together  38 Together  47 See the sights  
30 David 32 So-o-o  39 Ruin  48 1912 painter of Picasso  
scrumptious  41 Used weasel words  50 Suffix with  
33 Station slot  malt  
34 White guys?  44 Her "Collected Poems" won the  51 Underground  
35 Home  1952 Pulitzer  wealth  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIHS I>AY: Eliza Schneider. 27; Kathleen Kirimont, 
40; Morgan Fairchild, 55; Blythe Danner, 62 
Happy llirthday: There is plenty happening this year, hut you may feel a little 
bogged down or overwhelmed if you aren't prepared. Emotional matters may 
take over if you aren't steadfast about sticking to your game plan. There is too 
much at stake to risk losing time or sleep over something that you can do nothing 
about. Your numbers are 9. 21, 23. 38, 42, 46 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You'll have plenty of chances to show your wonh 
today. The coast is clear. and if you are confident, you will get your pomt anoss 
and grab the allention of someone interesltng. ••• 
TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You may want to watch what you say today. You 
are likely to stan a small feud umnlentionally. Work by yoursdf and you wtll get 
far more accomplished. Someone will oppmc your tdea' •• 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You have the driw and the ahtlity lobe sensaltonal 
in all that you do. Love and advancement are evident. A unique proposal will be 
presented that you won't want to miss. •••• 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have plenty of chances to let someone 
you care about know exactly how you feel, so don't chicken out. It's time to lay 
your cards on the table so that you can move forward.***** 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You've been too much on the go and have too much 
at stake. Take a second look before you make a mistake that you can't n:verse. 
Time is on your side so don't rush. Secrets may be revealed. ** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): There won't be too much that you can do about the 
changes going on around you, but you can hold tight and not instigate any 
additional moves. Someone engaging will enter your world. **** ·LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will get the recognition you've been waiting for 
if you present your ideas. Both business and personal partners will be 
accommodating and helpful. Focus on your goals. ***** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): What you see and what you get will be two 
different things. Don't be fooled by someone who is making extravagant promises. 
Hard work is what will pay off in the end. •• 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Nothing will slow you down or hold you 
back today. New relationships will develop, and old ones will play an imponant 
role in the people you meet. Fit as much in as possible. ••• 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You should be putting everything you've got 
into work and getting ahead. Someone in your personal life may try to hold you ., 
back. You have to act on your own instincts and knowledge. ••• • 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You may be emotionally drained because 
someone has been playing games with you. Don't let your heart rule your head, 
or you will end up making the same mistake over again. •• 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): There is so much going on in secret that tt is hard 
for you to know where you stand. Ask direct questions and don't give up until 
you are satisfied with what you hear. You can get ahead. ••••• 
Birthday Baby: You are a thinker. You ponder over this and that. and some might consider you a dreamer. but in reality you can tum your ideas into something that will astound others and please you. You are the consummate inventor. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com. 
---------~---------~-----------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your horne. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _____________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE 0BSER\!£R 

PORTS
Friday, February 4, 2005 
page 24 
NO BASKETBALl 
Men face No.8 'Cuse at the Carrier Dome Saturday evening 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
If the Irish wanted to repeat anything they did last season, they would want to do it now. 
Coming off a 78-74 win over No. 20 Connecticut, Notre Dame (13-5, 5-3 Big East) will take on No. 8 Syracuse (20-2, 7-1) Saturday in the middle of a fierce conference stretch. 
Last season, Notre Dame lost on Jan. 17 to Syracuse, 81-70, but beat the Orange a month later in the Carrier Dome, 84­72. 
Coach Mike Brey said he will remind his players of their past success on the road. 
"I think I'll mention that a little bit," Brey said. "The older guys know they had suc­cess in the Carrier Dome and played freely and loose." 
Syracuse beat Notre Dame 
see ORANGE/page 21 

Road warriors 


No.6 women travel to Pittsburgh to face 
• 
Panthers' big crowd 
ByJOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
Whenever Notre Dame comes to town, Pittsburgh gives new meaning to the words "cheap seats." 
For the second straight sea­son, the Panthers are having their "Pack the Peterson" pro­motional event in which tickets are just $1 to Saturday's 2 p.m. tip against Notre Dame (19-3, 7-2 Big East). Pittsburgh tried a similar promotion last season and more than 7,800 people attended. It was the second­largest crowd ever at the Peterson Center for a women's basketball game. In that game, the Irish barely squeaked by with a 72-68 victory. 
Irish coach Muffet McGraw 
remembers that game well, and 
said her team must be ready 
for a difficult road contest this 
see PANTHERS/page 22 

ROTC BASKETBALL 
Air Force hoops com.e back to the Joyce Center 
Notre Dame attracts teams from all over the country to play 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 
Some of the highest 11yers in college basketball are bringing their games to the Joyce Center this weekend. 
And. while Illinois, Kansas and Duke will not be coming to South Bend any time soon, 56 other teams will be here Saturday, competing for honor, respect and first place as the Notre Dame Air Force ROTC Detachment hosts the 19th annual Flying Irish Basketball Invitational. The weekend­long tournament is the largest ROTC athletic event in the nation, and 40 men's and 16 women's teams from across the country have come for the chance to win it all. 
With all the traveling to get to the event, the two teams with most to prove and the most to lose won't have· to go anywhere in order to get to their games. Representing the ND Air Force detachment, the men's and women's A-teams are both defending tournament champions. 
With regards to this week­end, the Air Force teams are very clear about their competi­tive expectations. 
"I want a repeat," men's A­team co-captain Tim Kogge said. 
Based on his evaluations of his team's talents, Kogge is confident that his goal will become tournament reality. 
"We've got a solid team," he said. "We have a solid core group of guys, and I think we are the perennial favorite." 
However, the A-team may face some tough challenges on the road to defending their title in the championship game, which will be held at 12:30 
see ROTC/ page 21 
HOCKEY 

Irish in dire need of a win 
ND faces much­improved team in two-game series 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sports Editor 

Home hasn't been sweet 
for the Irish lately. 
Notre Dame (5-18-5, 3-13­
4) will try to snap a four­game losing streak at the Joyce Center -and eight­game losing streak overall -when they face Nebraska­Omaha (14-10-2, 10-8-2) in a two-game series this weekend. 

The Irish have been mired in a difficult stretch of the season, going 1-9-1 in the month of January including 1-4 at the Joyce Center. Last season, Notre Dame lost only one game at home dur­ing the regular season. 
"I think our starts have changed more than any­thing," Irish coach Dave Poulin said about the differ-
see WIN/page 21 


en 
MEN~S TENNIS
FENCING 
MEN'S SWIMMING 

MENjSTRACK 
SMC BBAU. 
WOMEffS TRACK 

tm-
c.,:) Ohio State Duals 
Notre Dame at 
Notre Dame vs. 

Saint Mary's vs.
M~o Invitational 
M~o Invitational
z 
Oakland 
Texas 

To ay, 7 p.m. 
Hope 
To ay, 7 p.m.

cc 5 Saturday, 11 a.m. 
The Irish won't dual 
Saturday, 2 p.m. 
Today, 4 p.m. 

Eric Morrison and 
All-American high
Today, 3 p.m. 
The Irish travel to
No. 1 Ohio State, but 
The men face the 

Kurt Benninger will run 
The Belles face the 
jumper Stacey Cowan
c: 
Rochester, Mich., for last 
they face many other 
Longhorns at the Eck 

in the Meyo Mile 
leads the Irish. 

No. 1 team in the 
teams. 
dual meet of the year. 
Center this afternoon. 

Saturday. 
MIAA.

a..!:i 
en 
page 20 
page 20 
page 19 
page 19 

page 18
page 18 



