
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Notre Dame prepares for Easter weekend 
24 new Cathoi ics prepare to join Church 
By TRIClA DEGROOT 
News Writer 
lloly Wonk is a timn or nnd­ings and lwginnings. 

lo'or Catholies, l~astPr is tlw nrHI or thP liturgieal ynar and thn lwginning 11r nnw lifn in Christ. 1-'tlr tlw catndwnwns of thf' l!it.P of Christian lniliation or Adults program !BCIAl, tlw wnnk marks thn nnd or their spirit.ualjourrwy and tlw begin­ning or rww lirP in tlw Church. 
This yPar, Notre Danw's HCIA program -lwadnd hy Tami Srhmit.z or Campus Ministry ­will WPit·omn l4 nPw Calholks. l·:ltwPn of tlwsn arn known as rat.nrhtlllHHlS, who cnlnbratn all lhrl'l' sanan11•nts or initialion (baptism, ronlirmation and thn lloly l·:urharist). Thirtnnn arn 
see RCIA/page 8 


Basilica, dining hall await holiday crowds 
By KATIE PERRY News Writer 
. Although tlw lack or classns 
may eausn scholarship to dwindle 
this wenknnd, Eastnr brnak will 
simultannously rninron~n otlwr 
Univnrsity valuns or n~lig-ion and 
fiunily. 
Tho celnhration or thl' 
Hnsurredion on Sunday, rollow­
ing-a snrins of days commnmoral­
ing thn passion of Christ, marks 
thn t1JHI of thn Homan Catholic 
lloly Wonk. Bncausn of t.hn sacrnd 
significancn of this limn, Notrn 
l>amo does not hold dassns on 
Good Friday or on tlw Monday ·dirnctly following Eastnr. 
Whiln nw.ny sludnnts will go 
home and spend tho long-wnPk­
nnd with family, othnrs will 
obsnrve tho J•:astnr holiday on 
see EASTER/page 6 
SENATE 

United in Diversity discussed 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
Ncw,Writt·r 
With llw nnd of tlwir tnrrns in sight. mI' mlw r s of the StudPnt SPnatn strovn to Ill a k(' tit(' Ill 0 s t 0 f t h0 i r Wl'd nnsday night mooting by parking in disrussions about voiring support for thn rneog­nilion of Unitml in Divnrsity, spt·uring a campus-wide legal downloading sorvicn and installing a copy machirw in tlw LaForturw computer elus­[pr·. 
Though not tlw first itnm on tlw agnnda. a rnsolution was brought to tlw floor support­ing tlw off'irial UnivPrsity rneognition of the student-run gay-straight ali'iance. United in Diversity. Tho group was dnnind dub status for the sec­ond y(~ar in a row on March 3. 
Hyan Abrams, rnmnbnr of the Committno on University Affairs. presented the rnsolu­tion and spoke for its nocessi­ty on account that, as hn said, "a lot of studnnts foel unwnl­eonw or alienated," and rur­rnnt Llnivnrsity support struc­turns are not suf'ficinntly addrossing the problem. 
Tlw I'(~ solution den ins the claim that tho goal of United in Divnrsity is not in konping with Notrn l>an1e's Catholic identity -ono of the major points of argumHnt against its rprognition -citing the University "spirit of inclusion" and goal to respect and aceept tlw full spoelrum of divorsity in the community. 
"I don't know if rncognizing Unitnd in Diversity would ern­ate a welcoming nnvironmnnt for homosexuals at Notre Damn, but it would be a stnp in thn right direction." Abrams said. 
Anna CombHrg -presidnnt of Alli.anceND, the group behind Unitnd in Diversity­spoke to senators about the necnssity of gaining official recognition. 
see SENATE/page 6 


Speakers clarify Social Security 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writt·r 
ThP !Iiggins Labor I!Pst~ardt CnntPr and Notrn llanw's dPpartmPnt of Pl'.o­nomks and policy studies spo11sornd a nonpartisan panni Thursday PntitlPd ·'Tho l.'uturP of Sol'ial SPrurity: A Non-l'artisan l'anPI l>is;~us­sion on l'rospnrls for llPfOrlll." 
TIH• parH'I inrludnd l'rofpssor TPn•sa <;hilardurri of l.hn dPpartnwnt of f'(~onom­irs and policy studiPs; l.anet1 WnsriH'r, a doctoral studnnt 
sec SECURITY/page 4 



Straightforward Weis addresses Mendoza 

By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
Perhaps influenrnd by thn ambi­ence of his surroundings, Charlie Wnis rnarkntnd himsnlf with such slogans as ''I'm a bottom-linn kind of guy" and "''m not big on mak­ing exrusns" at tlw Mendoza College of Business Wndnnsday. 
Candidly spnaking at a discus­sion sponsornd by t.lw Notrn Damn Marhting Club. tlw rww Irish head football coach prqjeetnd his frank and open pmsonality to rnorP than 50 studnnts, faculty and sl.afl' mnmbers. Tlw filrum at the Jordan Auditorium marknd thn latest in a blitz of Wnis quns­tion-and-answnr snssions lwld on eampus so far this semnstnr. 
Before opnning up the floor to inquiries, Wnis addressed thn audiencn from th(~ floor -not the stage -and refused a miero­phone, whieh he dnmnod "taeky." 
In a signaturn showing of his guiiPinss languagn. thn dass of IIJ7H Notrn Damn alumnus and formnr ofTonsivo coordinator of tho Nnw England Patriot<; advisPd audienee nwmbnrs to "sl'izn tlw monwnt" and makn lhn mosl or lifi~'s llonting opportunitios. 
"What if tlw day I nrPt my wifi• I wouldn't haw talkt~d to lwr'! WPII. I would haw a lot morP morwy, but I would lw unhappy," Wl'is said. 
Furtlwr illustrating his point. Weis diseussl'd tlw ambitious mow in JI)SI) that would nvnnl.u­ally mtapult his rawPr lL'> a {(Jot­ball mach. It W1L<; in this yPar that the dntnrmirwd Wnis ofTtH·t~d to work for tlw Nnw York c;iants without pay. Ninn months lal.l'l'. Wnis was hin•d 1L<; an lL<;sistant hy lngondary coadt Billl'arcl'lls. 
"liard work ean only gPI. you so far," Weis s1.lid. "You·n~ going to 
see WEIS/pagc 6 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday:, March 24, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 

The dome: more than just gold 
It was excruciatingly hot, and my roommate and I were moving our belongings into our tiny freshman­year double. My dad brooded and questioned why he was payirf'g all this money for me, his only child, to leave home and stay in this room. At probably the most inopportune time of that roller-coast­er-of-emotions weekend, when my dad was trying to fashion a bookcase, my roommate's father said, "It's just amazing. You are so lucky." 
I looked up. My dad glared. Neither one of us could imagine what was so amazing about the 1 00-plus-degree hallway on the 4th floor of Walsh Hall. My roommate's dad, a double Domer, started to ramble on about how we were lucky to have room 435 because he believed it was the closest women's room to the Dome. In his eyes, we were privileged -we could wake up and look at the Dome. Coincidentally, our bunk beds were next to the window. 
His comments buoyed my spirits somewhat. But I'm not going to lie. I didn't really get his mesmerization with the Dome. See, I didn't grow up rooting for Notre Dame. I had never ever been to a football game. I cer­tainly didn't come here for a Dome that was gold. State capitals have domes-some are gold. I came to Notre Dame because it is Catholic and it provides students with an excellent education. 
Needless to say, it took me a while to understand what was so great about the Dome. But I roomed with a girl whose dad was a double Domer and whose three sisters were Domers. She breathed Notre Dame. By my first football game, she had taught me the fight song and other Notre Dame traditions. I was fully prepared and began to become enamored with that aura of Notre Dame. When finals rolled around, I began going to my "hovel" on 11th floor llesburgh. My hovel, or desk, had a picture-window view of Dome and the Basilica, and I loved watching the sun set from there. 
I love Notre Dame. But please know, it's not because the structure at the top of the Main Building happens to be dome-shaped. I love Notre Dame because of its dis­tinctiveness and because of the crazy people that it graduates who, despite their intelligence, go insane over everything that represents the blue and gold. I love that one of my friends memorized the Notre Dame Football Media Book at the age of seven, makes nightly trips to the Grotto, dons ridiculous get-ups for basket­ball games and rushed to the bookstore as soon as he could to order his class ring. That's Notre Dame. And that dome structure represents the embodiment of Notre Dame tradition. 
Notre Dame thrives on tradition. It's why the candles are lit at the Grotto. It's why people sing the fight song at The 'Backer. It's why families -with mom, dad, sis­ter, bother and even grandma and grandpa -line up on orientation weekend, football weekend, Junior Parents Weekend and commencement weekend at Main Circle or the "Jump Momma, Jump" statute to take pic­tures in front of the 'Dome. 
These pictures document the memories of the tradi­tion. 
My mom, who did not graduate from college, called me last week wanting to know why she wasn't going to have a Golden Dome at "her" graduation. Even my dad got over his initial issues and insisted on gathering the family up to take one of those pictures at Main Circle. We waited -on a football weekend no less -for peo­ple to stop cutting in front to get the perfect shot. 
It's not just me. Yesterday, I heard that someone 's mom sent him a black graduation robe. He took his pic­ture in front of the Dome before the scaffolding was nearly complete (he intends to Photoshop out what he can). 
When my 93-year-old grandma made her only trip to Notre Dame, it was important for her to see the Dome. After all, it is the school's most recognizable landmark. But somehow, I think it represents more than that. Why else would Notre Dame put it on the medal that we get at orientation and on the side of our class rings? 
Will the tradition of Notre Dame still exist without a pristine Dome at graduation? Yes. Will I be disappointed that my cap-and-gown pictures lack that Dome? Yes­and I don't think I will be the only crazy Domer who will feel that way. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Meghanne Downes at mdownesl@nd.edu 

Meghanne Downes 
Senior St.aff Writer 
CORRECTION 
Due to a reporting error, a quote was attributed to Lane Weaver instead of Chris Nichol in the March 22 edition ofThe Observer. Due to an editing error, a quote was attributed to Mairead Case instead of Catherine McGeeney in the March 23 edition ofThe Observer. The Observer regrets these errors. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU HOPE TO GET IN YOUR EASTER BASKET? 





Ashley Shelton  Amanda Hettler  Lauren Messina  Trey Williams  Michael Bell  
sophomore Walsh  freshman Pasquerilla West  junior Pangborn  junior Siegfried  senior off-campus  
"Brownie batter.  "Harsher  "Trey Williams,  "Pastel-colored  "A chocolate  
Not brownies;  punishments for  ofcourse.''  polos ... collars  squirrel."  
just the batter,  parole  popped."  

please." violations ... and world peace. 
IN BRIEF 

The men's baseball team will take on Georgetown University in a doubleheader beginning at noon today in the Eck Center. 
The 2004 film The Passion of the Christ will show at 7 p.m. 
and  10  tonight  in  the  
Browning  Cinema  of  the  
DeBartolo  Center  for  the  

Performing Arts. For tickets, call the DeBartolo box oflice at 1-2800. 
The men's tennis team will take on Michigan at 1 p.m. Saturday in the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The 1959 film Ben Bur will be shown Sunday at 7 p.m. in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. For tickets, call the DeBartolo box oflice at 1-2800. 
Professor Kathleen Pyne will give a talk entitled "Georgia O'Kccfl'e: Visions of the 

ERIN VRANISHrrhe Observer A student watches in delight as two of her classmates race around on South Quad, gathering easter eggs in their backpacks. 
OFFBEAT 
Woman charged in hugging muggings 
WEST MIFFLIN, Pa. -A woman was charged with steal­ing money and other items in recent weeks by walking up to six elderly victims, giving them a big hug -and then stealing their wallets or other loose items in the process. 
Mary Ann Johnson pretended to know the victims who are too polite to refuse her hugs, police said. 
It wasn't immedi­ately clear Tuesday if Johnson has an attorney. 
N.Y. teacher found guilty of exam hoax 
NEW YORK-A Bronx schoolteacher was charged with coercing a former homeless man into taking his state certi­fication exam for him, authorities said. 
Wayne Brightly, 38, allegedly bullied a former college classmate into taking the exam in July, using a fake identifi­cation and Brightly's Social Security card, 
TODAY TONIGHT 
D:: 
..... 
:::1: 
!;: 
.....
:: 
...I C( (,) 0 



..... 
34 20 
the city Department 
of Education  said  
Tuesday.  
Authorities  said  

Brightly's stand-in was Rubin Leitner, 
58. Leitner had met Brightly when the two were students at Brookiyn College in the late 1980s and had tutored him for the exam beginning in 2001 after Brightly failed at least twice, authori­ties said. 
Information com­piled from the Associated Press. 

Sublime" in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Suite Museum of Art Tuesday at 3 p.m. 
Theology on Tap Swill take place at 10 p.m. Wednesday at Legends. The event is spon­sored by Best Buddies as part of Disability Awareness Month. 
The Nanovic Institute is spon­soring a showing of the 2000 Portuguese film "Captains of April" at 7 p.m. next Thursday as part of its series of contem­porary films "European Cinemas, European Histories." 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Obser11er, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to­obsnews@nd. edu. 
FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY 



HIGH HIGH 42 HIGH LOW LOW 33 LOW 

Atlanta 70 I 51 Boston 43 I 34 Chicago 46 I 38 Denver 52 I 22 Houston 80 I 60 Los Angeles 62 I 52 Minneapolis 39 I 26 New York 44 I 35 Philadelphia 46 I 36 Phoenix 68 I 52 Seattle 54 I 38 St. Louis 65 I 48 Tampa 80 I 66 Washington 49 I 41 

Thursday, March 24, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Attention Gradu~ting Seniors!! 
Notre Dame's Office of Undergraduate Admissions anticipates hiring Admissions Counselors this spring! 
As part of the Undergraduate Admissions staff, the counselor is expected to make an important contribution to the recruitment and selection ofthe first-year class by managing relations with the prospective applicants; their parents, high school personnel and alutnni in an assigned geographic area. 
I 
Responsibilities include extensive planning, travel, communication within the geographic area, assessment and evaluation of applications and conducting group/individual information sessions on campus. Additional responsibilities will be assigned by the Assistant Provost for Enrollment. 
Candidates should possess a bachelor's degree and strong familiarity with all aspects of student life at Notre Dame. 
Essential qualities include strong communication and organizational skills, enthusiasm, diplomacy and the willingness to work long hours, including many evenings and Saturday mornings. 
Preferred start date is July 1, 2005. 


Please send or deliver a cover letter and resume to: Admissions Hiring Cotnmittee, 220 Main Building 
• 

Security guard credits other with saving life 
Asmciatcd Press 
BI~MID.II. Minn. -;\ novien sneurity guard who survivnd a student's shooting rampagn at a high school dnseribnd a frnnzind scrambln to warn students out of harm's way-and crnditnd a follow guard with saving lives hy sacrificing his own. 
In an intnrvinw WPdnesday with Tlw Associ ale d I' ross, L1H~/\nn Grant said sncurity guard Derrkk Brun, 2H, ignored hnr plnas to run and rose from his desk to eonfront shooter .Jell" Wnisn. 
"Dnrrick saved my life," the 20-year-old Grant said. "I know he bought me tinw hy con­fronting Jell, for me to even gnt that nn11~h farther away with the students. Derrick's my hero," she said. "lie didn't even look s1~ared. 1111 didn't look worried. lin know what he was going to do." 
(;rant said she and Brun worn working at the doors of Hnd Lakn lligh School as usual on Monday. Thrnn of the four doors wnrn hH~k11d; thn opnn door fun­nnlnd studnnts through a metal dnh\rlor. 
Slw deserihnd Wnisn slopping out of his grandfatlwr's polien truck -taknn after thn I (J-year­old hoy had killml the man and his companion, aceording to authorities -and sending two shotgun blasts into the air. 
.lust four ynars oldnr than Wnisn, slw had known him for years and rncogniznd the 6-foot, 250-pound student at 1mce. llis black trench coat billowed open and Crant saw more guns on the boy's belt. 
She had no gun, no bulletproof vest and a little girl and a little boy at home. She had just begun working as a security guard in August. 
Outside, the gunman tried one door, then another. 
"lie looked right at me. I made eye contact with him," Grant said. The boy qukkly found thn open door. 
"lie walked in and fired anoth­er shot and I was telling Derrick, 'Come on, let's go. Let's go, Derrick. Hun. We need to save these kids, we need to do some­thing.' And l radioed in ... 'There's a guy coming in the school and he's shooting and he has a gun."' 
"Derrick just sat there at his desk.... lie just kept staring at JelT. I kept hollering for him to come with me. lie wouldn't come, he just stayed there." 
The. noise drew students toward the front doors. Some thought maybe there was a light. and they wanted" to sec, Grant said. 
"I start yelling at them, 'Hun! There's a guy with a gun here! Just run!' A1id Uwn I took oiT to try to proteet them," she said. "I turned back a little bit, and you muld sen Dl\rriek kind of getting up, going right toward Jell'. And then I heard two shots again." 

Saint Mary's professor honored 
By ANGELA SAOUD Senior Staff Writer 
Almost 110 Saint Mary's stu­dents and faculty members met last night to honnr prol(Js­sor Mary Connolly as the win­ner of the Student Academic Council's (SAC) third annual Women Honoring Women award. 
Connolly was recognized for her dndication to students both in and outside the classroom, as well as for instilling a strong sense of spirituality into each of her students. 
Coordinator of SAC Mary Pauline Moran said Connolly's dedication to the women of Saint Mary's sets her apart from the crowd. 
"Professor Connolly is some­one her students can go to any limn they need her -for aca­demic qunstions or for person­al reasons," Moran said in her introduction speech. "She helps us to take a step back and realize the beauty all around." 
Three other eandidatns were also nominated for the award -dirnctor of the Ollice of Civic and Social Engagement Carri1~ Call, professor Astrid Henry and Athletics Director Lynn Kachmarik. 
Moran said each woman was nxenplional in her own way. 
"These four linalists always go above and beyond their call of duty at Saint Mary's, and studnnts have noticed that and would like to recognize them 

I The four candidates for the Women Honoring Women award -Henry, Connolly, Kachmarlk and Call -posed last night. 
this year," Moran said. "They deserve recognition for all they do for the College." 
In February, students were asked to submit a letter of rec­ommendation for female faeul­ty or stall' they felt best eneom­passed the mission statement of the group -induding fur­thering women's achievements by encouraging students to grow intellectually, spiritually and personally. Of the rncom­mendation letters submitted, four women movnd on to the Nominations Committee, whore the winnnr was ehosnn by secret ballot. 
In addition to having somn of the outstanding faculty and staff members present at the dinner, othnr award nominees and top college administrators, ineluding College president Carol Mooney, were also in attendance. 
StudenL<> in attnndanee wnrn nominated by department ehairs to represent their major at the nvnnt. 
"These students arn eonsid­ered exceptional within their departnwnt and the campus at largo," Moran said. "It is only fair that they rnenivn rncogni­tion as wPII." 
Arter senior Molly Welton announeed Connolly as this year's reci'pinnt, Connolly thanklld 1wnryonn in atten­dance lilr allowing hnr to bn a part of tlwir livns. 
"Each pnrson has a part in shaping tlw womnn around tlwm," Connolly said. "No onn at Saint Mary's i~arns an award by hnrsnlf." 
Contact Angela Saoud at Saou0303@saintmarys.edu 
page 4 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, March 24, 2005 
Forty percent of retirees' of today's African-American sen­ment's prospects for success incomes in the United States iors." when investing in stocks of pri­
Security 


Vievvs of

comes from the public sector, Citing the size of the Social vate companies, which, he continued from page 1 which includes Social Security, Security trust fund, Walsh said argued, are variable and depend and 10 percent comes from the Social Security is "doing very largely on the state of the compa­from the department of econom­private sector, Ghilarducci said. well" today. · ny and the economy. 
death are ics and econometrics; Bob Walsh The government funds the pro­Nguyen discussed the structure "It puts [individual accounts! in and Doug Nguyen of the Social gram, specifically a payroll tax. of the Social Security administra­a more reali<>tie light," he said. Security Administration; and Ghilarducci briefly discussed tion, focusing specifically on the Griffin was the final speaker of Nancy Griffin, the state director Chile, a nation with a privatized Board of Trustees and its most the evening, Indiana's state 


changing
of the American Association of retirement system. receat report, released Thursday director of the AARP. She Retired People (AARP) of "We're making choices about afternoon. He also reviewed reviewed a number of plans that Associated Press
Indiana. The discussion was the distribution of risks," she recent demographic trends in the would reduce or eliminate the moderated by Bob Montgomery said. United States, including birth future funding shortage to keep 
First came Karen Ann of WSBT radio, the South Bend Ghilarducci finisll,ed by saying rates and life expectancy. Social Security solvent beyond 
Quinlan. Then there was CBS afliliate. the United States can solve any "There's a projection that 2042. 
Nancy Cruzan. Now there's Panelists tried to clarify aspects Social Security funding concern [birth rates arel leveling out," he Among her suggestions were 
Terri Schiavo. of the Social Security system that simply by increasing taxes, said. "Immigration also plays a raising the cuuent cap on Social 
Each time, a young woman cause frequent confusion and decreasing benefits or increasing factor." Security taxes from $90,000 to 
was left in a horrible limbo underscored the controversy sur­the rate of return on trust funds. Nguyen reviewed projections $140,000 over ten years, raising 
between life and death follow­rounding President Bush's plan "The solution to Social Security for the Social Security trust fund. the age for benefits eligibility to 
ing a personal disaster: the to introduce private personal and unemployment is the same By 2017, he said, "the outflow 70 by 2083, raising the Social 
fateful mixing of alcohol and a savings accounts into the system. solution," she said. "You have to will exceed the incoming payroll. Security tax by five-tenths of a 
tranquilizer; a car accident; a Professor Ghilarducci, the first have a healthy economy." Nguyen said by 2042 the only percent, and slightly lowering 
collapse at home and heart speaker, presented on "Social Nguyen, of the Social Security approximately 7 4 percent of ben­monthly benefits starting in 2018 
failure, possibly from an eat­Security Funding: The Administration's regional office efits will be paid if nothing to compensate for increased life 
ing disorder. International Experience." in Chicago, and Walsh, of the changes in the current system. expectancy. 
Over 30 years, their "[I am going to] lay out the oflice in South Bend, spoke next Wescher then addressed evalu­"There is a full range of 
tragedies not only captured facts and let you all make up about the structure and history ating dill'erent proposals for the options that we could use now [to 
the nation's sympathy and your own mind," she said. of Social Security in the United future of Social Security. He used maintain Social Security]." she 
attention, they have spurred Ghilarducci compared Social States. hypothetical scenarios to illus­said. 
new laws, new medical prac­Security in the United States to "Over 4 7 million Americans trate future trends. Griffin said there is a necessity 
tices and, ultimately, changes equivalent programs around the receive a monthly benefit," he "The Social Security system to preserve the program as an 
in the ways that society views world, noting elderly Americans said. "Social Security is the only that we choose today may not insurance policy for retirees, sur­
death. currently have a higher poverty income for 20 percent of these have an impact on the working vivors and the disabled. 
Now every state in the rate than their counterparts in retired workers." population in 2050," he said, not­"Social Security is designed to 
nation recognizes a person's many industrialized nations. The Social Security also helps ing any projection would depend be there for all Americans," she 
legal right to define how far She called America's stance on to administer the Medicare and on many outside factors .. said. "It's the only thing that is." 
they want medical care to go poverty among the elderly either Supplemental Security Income "Where the plans dill'er signifi­The panel concluded with a 
if they become very ill -and "just not that successful" or "just Programs, Walsh said. cantly is how you're going to question-and-answer session. 
where they want to set limits. not aggressive." Walsh offered words of caution invest [your] money," he said. "If Questions focnsed largely on the 
Many doctors make sure to Ghilarducci also said many concerning Social Security bene­money is returned in the form of structure and practices of the 
talk with seriously ill and eld­nations have lower worker-to­fits. tax cuts, there are no growth Social Security system, its pur­
erly patients about how their retiree ratios than the United "There is only a 40 percent prospects." pose and the proliferation of 
life might end. A community States, whose current ratio is [average] replacement rate for There is a need to consider ideas on how to keep the pro­
of surviving families, lawyers approximately three to one. earned wages. People should try risks inherent in any plan for gram solvent in years to come. 
and doctors has been pushing "[Many believe that] the fact to replace 70-80 percent of their Social Security, Wescher said. Kate Antonacci contributed to 
for years to create a path for that we're moving from three to earned income," he said. ''[It's] a "Social Security is fundamentally this report. 
the end of life that gives as one to two to one is the problem valuable program for women an insurance program, not a 
much thought to dying as ... it isn't," she said. "The prob­and minorities. [It's] the only retirement savings program." Contact Steve Kerins at 
society does to life's begin­lem is economic growth." soqrce of income for 40 percent Wescher reviewed the govern-skerins@nd.edu 
ning. 
f.et everJ one feacf 



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 24, 2005 CoMrtuo FRoM T11E OBsERvER's wrRE sERvrcEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran agrees to extend nuclear talks 
I'AIUS-Iran rnfusml to scrap its urani­lllll Pnrirhnwnt program as it wrapped up tho lall~st talks on its nudoar program with l':uropoan powors Wndnosday. But Tnhran appParnd willing to maintain a tPmporary fronzn on l.lw program that U.S. officials say l'ould bn used to dandnstinnly makP atomic· bombs. 
lligh-IPvf'l rwgol.iators in Paris rnportPd a "positive rlimatn" in thn talks, which c·onJP amid U.S. ronc:orns that Tehran is masking plans to build weapons by insist­ing on possc•ssing t.lw m1richmnnt. toehnol­ogy nl'ndl'd to rd'irw nuclear funl for a civilian rPac·tor. 
"ThPn~ was a ronstructivo and positivo rlimatn," Frnnch Foroign Ministry spoknsnmn .loan-Baptiste Mattei said aftnr 1wgotiators nwt for snvon hours. 
Arab summit revisits peace plan 
Au;ums. Algeria-Arab loaders ended thnir annual summit Wndnnsday without producing any now initiative for poaen with lsnwl. missuing instead a three-year-old Saudi plan that alrPady was rnjoetnd by loaders of' tho Jewish state. 
Tlw Arab loaders also staynd away from strong stands on other kny issues f'adng tho Midnast. including domoerat.k reform and Syria's prnsonrn in Lebanon. 
Tlw summit did dnddn to do a bottnr job of marketing a 2002 poaco plan for lsraol by sonding a r.ommittnn to nxplain it to l~uropo, tho Unitod States and other nations. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Texas explosion leaves workers dead 
TI•:XAS CITY, Tnxas -An explosion rocked a BP oil rnfinnry Wnd nnsday, killing an undc~tnrmirwd number of' pnopln, injur­ing morn than I00 and sending flames and black smoke billowing into tho sky, authori­tios said. 
BP spokesman Nnil Chapman eonfirnwd f'atalitios but did not havn a total numbnr. Tho l'iro was extinguished al'tnr a l'ow hours, and workers worn searching through rubbln for survivors or bodies. Tho rausn of tlw blast was not imrnndiatoly known. 
Plant worker Charles Grngory said ho and snvnral co-workors wnro inside a trailer gc1Lting ready to doan tho tank when tho floor startl'd rumbling. "After that is whnn it oxplodnd," lw said. 
"It was real seary," lw said. "llavn you nvnr hPard tlw thundnr rna! loud'! It was likn 10 limns that." 


Army orders updated tourniquets 
lo'OJlT KNOX, Ky. -Tho Army is rushing to U.S. troops in Iraq and Afghanistan a nnw and Pasy-to-use plastic tourniquet that could savP morn Iivns on tlw battle­field. 
Thn nylon and plastic device, which uses a orw-inch Vnkro strip, was demonstratml W11drwsday by Fort Knox soldiers. It is eon­sidnred much faster and easier to usn than nwrP traditional Pquipnwnt. 
Tlw Army has ordMed 172,000 of the rww tourniquots and will begin distributing thnrn next month. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Johnson & Johnson to buy Guidant 
INDIANAPOLIS -(;uidant Corp. shar·e­holdnrs are sdwduled to vote April 27 on .Johnson & .Johnson's planned $25.4 billion aequisilion of' the lndianapolis-basnd medieal deviee maker. 
Shareholders of rneord as of' March 21 will he nligible to vote, Guidant said in a news rnleasn Wc1drwsday. Guidant will mail sharn­holders a proxy statemcnt and prospectus hdow thn meeting. 
.Johnson & Johnson is to pay $76 in eash and stock for eaeh share of (;uidant under the deal announcml Dnc. 15. 

Williams escapes death penalty 
Truck driver convicted on 38 counts of transporting illegal immigrants to U.S. 
Associated Press 

IIOUSTON -A truck driv­er was c:onvictnd Wndnesday for his min in the dnal.hs of' IIJ illegal immigrants who elawod at tho walls of' his swnltoring traetor-trailnr and scmamod for air as he smuggled them across Toxas. 
Tho 2003 journoy was the deadliest human smuggling attempt in U.S. history. 
Tyrone Williams, 34, was fhund guilty on 3S counts of transporting illegal immi­grants but was sparnd the death penalty beeause the jury eould not agree on whether he bore direct rosponsibility fiw tho deaths. 
Tho judgo also dedarod a mistrial on 20 eounl<> of con­spiracy and harboring after the jury doadlockod on thoso ehargns during 2 1/2 days of deliberations. One of those charges also carried the dnath pcmalty. 
Williams, who smiled whon lw learned he would not facn the death pnnalty, could get life in prison. 
Prosecutors said during tho nino-day trial that Williams was paid $7,500 by a smuggling ring to trans­port more than 70 illegal immigrants from llarlingon to llouston in May 2003. The rnfrigoration unit on Williams' trailer was not 
turned on for the trip, and and even eallnd the opera­Authorities who found tho Ddonsn attorneys argw~d authorities said tempera­tors of the smuggling ring on trailer at the truck stop that while Williams was tures inside reached 173 his eoll phone to demand described seeing piles of guilty of transporting llw degrnes. more money bneausn he half-naked bodies piled 4 immigranl<>. tlw ring's otlwr 
Survivors tnstifind that as feared thny would damage fp,et high on the vomit-cov­members wnre rnsponsibl11 the heat in the trailer his rig. ered floor and bloody claw for the deaths bneausn tlwy beeame unbP.arable, the Williams eventually aban­marks on its doors where packnd too many pc1opl11 into immigrants took off their doned the trailer about 100 the immigrants had triod to the trailnr. swoat-drnndwd dothos and miles southwest of llouston get out. Dnfnnse attorney Craig crowded around holes they aftnr opening the doors and U.S. District .Judgn Washington said Williams pundwd in the truek so thny finding somn of tiH) immi­Vanessa Gilmore set an April could not und11rstand tlw could brnatho. They also grants lying in the trailer. lie 1 I hearing on whothnr to immigrants' ploas because~ kicked out a signal light to was arrested a few hours retry Williams on the 20 he dons not spnak Spanish, try to gc1t tho attention of later. deadloekod counts. but no but whnn Williams finmd out passing motorists. Seventeon people, includ­snntencing date was set. what was happnning, hn 
Prosecutors said Williams ing a 5-year-old boy, died Williams could faen tho bought 55 bottles of water ignornd the immigrants' inside thn trailer of dehydra­death penalty again if prose­fiw thnm at a truck slop and screams and their banging tion, ovorhoating and sufliJ­cutors decide to retry him on shoved llwm through t.lw on the sides of the truck, cation. '1\vo othnrs died lator. a eonspiracy count. holn in thn trailnr. 

IRAQ 


Iraqi training camp militants killed 
documents, Iraqi Maj. Gen. Hashid the tide is turning and not go with thn 
Associated Press 

Fnleih told statn television. lie said the insurgents," said Nora Bensal111l. a insurgnnts included Iraqis, Filipinos, Washington-based Iraq analyst for 
BAGHDAD -Tlw squad of Iraqi Algerians, Moroccans, Afghans and Hand Corp. commandos was homing in on what Arabs from neighboring countries. But while it's been "a fairly success­they thought was a militant hide-out in "What's really rmnarkable is that the ful fnw days," Bensahnl cautioned that central Iraq, when residents pointed citizens this time really took the initia­"there's a long, long way to go." them toward a dim~rent target nearby tive to provide us with very good infor­The U.S. military gave tho first -a remote, marshy eamp on the mation," Feleih said. report of the Lakn Tharthar raid, say­shores of Lake Tharthar, a U.S. Army In throe days, according to Iraqi and ing that sevnn eommandos and an spokesman said Wednc1sday. U.S. officials' accounts, troops have unspedfied numbnr of militants wen~ 
At high noon, 85 militants at the killed at least 128 insurgents nation­killed. The military dnclinnd training camp were killed in one of the wide. On Sunday, U.S. soldiers killed Wednesday to confirm the Iraqi gov­highest !-,'11errilla death tolls of the two­26 insurgents south of Baghdad, while ernment's death toll of S5 militants, year insurgency, Iraqi officials said. a fight during an ambush on an Iraqi and it was impossible to dwck the Jig­They said citizens emboldened by tho security envoy killed 17 militants on urn independently. .January elections increasingly were Monday . But S5 deaths would makn tho raid 
turning in intelligonee tips. "This string of suceessns dons have the !waviest hit militants havn taken 
Tho Tuesday commando raid, positive repercussions in that it may since tho opening days of tho U.S.-h~d baekod by U.S. air and ground fire, convince Iraqis not supporting the attack in November on tho eity of turned up booby-trapped ears, suidde­insurgents -but not supporting tho Fallujah, whore morn than 1,000 bombnr vests, weapons and training United States either-to perceive that insurgnnl<> dind. 
,---------------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 24, 2005 
Easter 
continued from page 1 
campus at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Before the conclusion of Holy Week, the Basilica will have held more than 15 services and wel­comed thousands of worshippers through its large wooden doors. Though the pews typically hold 800 people, additional seating will be required for Easter services. Each of the three Sunday masses is expected to garner 1,100 to 1 ,200 individuals, Basilica rector Father Peter Rocca said. 
"A vast majority of the people in attendance are students, as well as faculty and staff," Rocca said. "The Holy Cross community of priests, brothers and seminarians usually participate as well." 
Residents of South Bend eager to visit the illustrious house of worship -as well as Notre Dame alumni from across the nation ­are also expected to attend Easter services at the Basilica, Rocca said. 

Due to the large influx of people during Easter weekend, Basilica staff must meticulously plan serv­ices in advance. According to Rocca, provisions like the inclu­sion of an additional mass, the designation of certain doors as entrances and exits and the use of security to assist with traffic flow all work in tandem to ensure Basilica events run smoothly. 
The celebration of the Passion is what Rocca calls a "central mystery of [the Catholic] faith." Indeed, the inherent importance of religion to the University is reflected in on-campus events and the cancellation of classes to allow for students to be with their families on this weekend. 
"Experiencing the great love Christ has for· us all, even to suf­fering, dying and rising for us, is a very powerful mystery in the lives of believers," Rocca said. "It goes to the heart of what it means to be a believer." 
Law student Courtney Eschbach has been a part of Easter services at Notre Dame for two years as a member of the women's liturgical choir and a teacher in the Rite of Christian Initiation for Adults (RCIA) program. 
"My first year here, I remember being completely bowled over by the beauty of the services at the Basilica -every last detail from the decorations to the music is designed to truly draw the partici­pants deeper into the mystery of Christ's passion," Eschbach said. "Taken as·a whole, Triduum at the Basilica is truly a special event." 
One of the more highly-touted events of the Easter Vigil is the acceptance of RCIA members into the Catholic community. According to Eschbach, one of the most moving moments of the mass is the "thunderous" applause the catechumens receive from the congregation after they have been confirmed. 
"I think thi'i emphasis on com­munity is reflective of the culture the University tries to create everywhere from the residence halls to the classrooms," Eschbach said. 
Following Easter services at the Basilica, there will be another opportunity to celebrate the holi­day in a communal setting. South Dining Hall will serve a buffet­style Easter dinner in each of the dining rooms. The meal will include such foods as carved roast leg of lamb, orange-honey glazed ham, chicken breast with walnut plum sauce and New York cheesecake. 
"It's a really strong menu with a lot of popular items," South Dining Hall general manager Marc Poklinkowski said. 

The meal -which features foods reserved solely for this par­ticular day -will feed many of the thousands of churchgoers pouring from the Basilica after Easter mass. According to Poklinkowski, South Dining Hall served 2,411 people last year and expects roughly 2,600 to attend Sunday. 
Students are invited to partake in the buffet as part of their nor­mal meal plan. Non-students of all ages are also welcome to attend and pay at the door. 
"Word seems to be getting out, as we seem to be having more and more families coming each year," Poklinkowski said. "We also see a lot of University employees showing up with their families." 
Like the special Holy Week masses at the Basilica, the Easter meal is the most significant event of the year for South Dining hall in terms of time spent and resources used. 
"It acknowledges the impor­tance of the holiday and is reflec­tive of the rich traditions of the University," Poklinkowski said. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry@nd.edu 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
Not only would club status allow the group to plan events, communicate and gather more easily. Gomberg said it would fill a space left void by the University's cur­rent support services -the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs and Campus Ministry. 
"The tenor of a student org~nization that addresses these needs, one that is not bound up by the administra­tion or by Campus Ministry, is completely different than anything currently offered," she said. 
Katie Boyle, chair of the Committee on University Affairs, spoke to the ideologi­cal as well as the practical issues of recognition, saying the University's rejection of the club "speaks very loudly" and does not help undo any of the negative press on the sub­ject. 
Frequently emphasized during the eonversation was the existence of similar groups at peer institutions like Georgetown and Marquette, and the resolution was amended to include Saint Mary's on the list. 
"It disgusts me when every year they reject the club sta­tus," O'Neill senator Matt Walsh said. "To use respectful language, it makes me mad. Correct me if I'm wrong, but I have never heard any student say that the existing system works great." 
Though no one spoke out against recognition, Committee on Academic Affairs chair Vijay Hamanan cautioned that, when approaching the administra­tion, students should be sure to reeognize the complexity of the matter, or they will gain little ground in the discus­sion. 
Boyle said while stud,ent government does not have any real power in the area of recognizing clubs, the resolu­tion would bring the issue more necessary publicity. 
The resolution passed with no opposition, a copy of which will be sent to head of Student Activities Brian Coughlin and the Campus Life Council. Ironically, one of the first acts this group of sena­tors performed after taking office last year was passing a similar resolution. 
A representative from the 

Ruckus network -a legal downloading service offering a selection of media and com­munity content spoke to the Senate about his company and the possibility of its installation at Notre Dame. 
Ruckus currently offers 850,000 songs -but only from complying artists, so no Dave Matthews -and holds licenses for 2,500 movies that it puts up on a rotational basis, as well as shows like "Seinfeld." After the system was installed at no cost to the University, students could join on an "opt-in" basis, choosing a music-only plan at $15 per semester, a movies-only plan at $20 or everything for $30. 
Any content downloaded from Ruckus is licensed for 30 days -after which point the user must renew it if they still subscribe, or lose the file -and cannot be transferred to an iPod or other MP3 play­er or burned to a disk. A pay­by-track service, akin to iTunes, is in the works that will give students the option of spending between 79 and 99 cents on each track they wish to transfer. 
Once students graduate, they must either continue with a slightly higher monthly fee, or lose everything they download. A summer sub­scription must also be paid for non-graduates who plan to continue the service during the next school year. 
Ruekus also offers Huckus Campus, a Web site open even to non-subscribers and tailored specifieally to the Notre Dame community, that the representative called "Facebook on steroids." Besides offering spaces for profiles, message boards and blogs, the site would also have Ruekus Studio, on which student artists could put their original music or movies to share with the rest of cam­pus. A seetion ealled Mind Tap aims at more academic tastes, with everything from interview tips to interviews with actual alumni. 
Ruckus is looking to launch at 17 schools by next fall and is almost halfway there with eight schools up and running. A resolution on the prospects of Notre Dame joining their ranks will likely be intro­duced at next week's meet­ing, and if approved, the rep­resentative said his company could have the system installed within 17 business days. 
To cap off the meeting, sen­ators unanimously passed a 
resolution supporting the installation of a copy machine in the LaFortune computer cluster next fall. The machine will be put in on a trial basis to gauge usage and will run at 10 cents per copy. 
In other Senate news: 
+Senate approved Sieg­fried senator James Leito and student union secretary Nancy Walsh as this year's Irish Clover Award winners, an accolade that recognizes outstanding service to the students of the Notre Dame community. The Senate also approved political science 
~professor  Ahdn Tillery  as  
recipient  of  the  Frank  
O'Malley  Undergraduate  

Teaching Award. 
Contact Amanda Michaels.at amichael@nd.edu 
to "just about everyone in the country."

Weis 
The number of telephone con­

continued from page 1 versations may not have translat­ed to what one would consider enduring, personal relationships, 
need opportunities and make the but they did lend themselves to most of them." Weis' straightforward and up­
Weis expressed a desire to front style. Conversations ended "make the most" of the opportuni­after just three minutes if a recruit ty of coaching at Notre Dame. showed little or no interest, Weis 
One way to achieve this goal is said. through finding and attracting tal­Weis expressed a desire to learn ent for his team, he said. Weis more about the various depart­likened the recruiting process to ments and areas of' study at Notre common business strategy by Dame so he can translate this 
-explaining the three most impor­knowledge into a form of leverage tant techniques in enlisting ath­for courting potential players. letes: selling the school, selling the With regard to his future aspira­coaching staff and building rela­tions, Weis plans on a successful tionships. run at Notre Dame. For Weis, the first two proved "I plan to retire from here after easier than the last. Because of my sixth-grade son graduates the limited time to recruit players, [from Notrn Dame]," Weis said. -he began the process in December -he found himself Contact Katie Perry at making over 50 phone calls a day kperryS@nd.edu 
FLy FOR FREE NEXT WEEI<! 
If you've ever dreamed of being behind the controls  If you're interested, we'll guarantee you a  
of an airplane, this is your chance to find out what  free flight school, offer tuition assistance  
it's really like.  and someday put you in a Harrier,  
AMarine Corps pilot is coming to Notre Dame on  ~  Cobra -or F/A-18 Hornet.  
Wednesday, March 30, to take you on trial flights.  Get in the air.  
We're looking for a few college students who have  Get some information.  
the smarts, skills and interest to be a Marine pilot  The flight is on us.  

CoN'IACJ Ymm MARIN£ Coni's OniCJ::R StlECl ION TEAM 
RESERVE YOUR SEAT TODAY! 
1st Lt. Barclay or Gunnery Sgt. Templeton 
765-479-1275 
OSOLAF@9MCD.USMC.Mil 

MAIHNE OHICER PROGRAMS 

MarineOfficer.com 
lOOl 


Thursday, March 24, 2005 


MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

10,456.02 -I 4.49
}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 734 120 • 2,282,433,720 
AMEX  1,467.50  -3.49  
NASDAQ  I,990.22  +0.88  
NYSf  7,127.18  -31.79  
S&PSOO  I, 172.53  +0.82  
NIKKEI(Tokyo)  I I , 7 3 9. I 2  0.00  
FTSf IOO(London)  4,910.40  -26.90  

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ)  +0.36  +0.13  36.26  
SUN MICROSYS INC (SUNW)  +1.24  +0.05  4.08  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.79  +0.19  24.18  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  +0.16  +0.02  12.5 I  
INTEL CP (INTC)  + 1.61  +0.37  23.39  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  -0.57  -0.28  48.63  
I0-YEAR NOTE  -0.07  -0.03  46.07  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.42  +0.18  42.94  
3-MONTH BILL  -1.46  -0.41  27.61  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -2.22  53.81  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  -6.20  425.40  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -2.05  92.80  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  I 05.9300  
EURO  0. 7698  
POUND  0.5346  
CANADIAN$  1.2160  

IN BRIEF 
Ford trucks under investigation 
WASIIINGTON-Thn National llighway Trallic Safnty Administration said Wednesday it would invnstigatn morn than 3.7 million Ford Motor Co. pickups and sport utility vnhi­clns for a dnfnet in a cruiso control switch that lnd to a .January rneall. 
Tlw agnney said it would examino Ford F­1!iO pickups from tho I995-1999 and 2001­2002 rnodnl ynars, and Ford Expeditions and Lincoln Navigators from the 1997-1999 and 2001-2002 nuHh~l yoars. 
N IITSA of'lkials said thny havn rnenivod 21 R complaints of' nnginn firns from tho eruisn con­trol switch in thosn modnls. No injurins or fatalities havn lw~m rnportnd. 
Tlw nnw invnstigal.ion dons not ineludo tho 2000 mod~1l ynars of tho vnhidos, whieh was eovnrod by llw .January rocall of nearly ROO.OOO v~~hidns. Ford said tho eruise control switch could short drcuit and eausn an engine compartmnnt firn whnn tho vnhiele was parkml or !wing drivnn, oven if tho eruiso con­trol was not being usnd. 

Brokerages fined for concealment 
WASJJIN(;'J'()N -In three unrnlatod easns, fndnral rngulators fined Citigroup Ine. and Putnam lnvnstnwnt.s $20 million and $40 million rnspnctivnly and a smallnr brokerage ·nrm $100,000 to rnsolve allegations that tlwy eon­eoalml from eustonwrs tho faet that brokers worn paid to rneommnnd enrtain mutual funds, crnating a conllirt of intnrnst. 
Thn Sorurities and Exchange Commission <umounced tlw separatn snttloments Wedrwsday with Citigroup, tlw biggest U.S. linaneial institu­l.ion; Putnam, tlw snvnnth-largest mutual fund company; and broknrage Capital Analysts lne. Citigroup, Capital Analysts and Putnam, a unit of Marsh & Md.nnnan Cos., noithnr admitted nor denim! wrongdoing as part of tho agronrnents. Tlw SI\C also allngnd that Citigroup sold a typo of mutual fund sharns known as Class B sharns to cnrtain largo-scale customers who could have earrwd a higher rntu rn from another typo of shaws. 
Capital Analysts. a brokoragn firm based in Hadnor. Pa.. agrcwd to pay a civil fino of $100.000 and $:~50,000 in rnstitution plus inter­est. 


THE OBSERVER 









USINESS 
page 7 


Trustees foresee early deficit 
New report ~uggests Social Security to run out earlier than previously expected 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON -Social Security will bogin paying out morn in bonnf'its than it receives in taxes in 2()'1 7, twelve ynars from now and a year earlier than previously estimatnd, trustees said Wednesday in a forncast adding fuel to tlw dnbate over ehanges President Bush wants. 
The trustees estimated that the program, which is about to be inundated with baby boom retirees, would go broke in 2041, also a year earlier than in their previous annual report. After then. bene­fits would have to be cut by morn than 25 percent if payroll taxes aron 't increased. 
The Bush administration said both findings under­scored the urgency of its nffort to overhaul Social Security this year, in part by creating retirement investment accounts for younger workers. Democrats said the trustees' report undercut tho prosidont's efforts to portray the program as in immediate crisis. 
That label would appear to apply to Medicare, the health care program for tho elderly and disabled. The trustees, who also 

Mike Leavitt, the new well as programs that eel. 
oversee that Groat Society 

llealth and Human encourage better health Snow brandnd Hnid 's program, noted that Serviens secretary and through things as simpln fonnnr statnrnnnt asMedicare began paying another trustee, said that as an annual physical. "eountPrfaetual," noting
out more in benefits than Mediearn and Medicaid -Senator Harry Hnid of that. the first of thn 7H mil­it received in taxes as of 

the health insurance pro­Nevada, tho top Democrat lion baby boomnrs will
last ynar. They also pre­gram for tho elderly at the in the Senate, disagreed begin to rntirn in 200R,

dicted it would go brokn state levol -face daunt­with Snow, deelaring. accelPrating bnrwfit pay­

in 2020, ono year latnr 

ing linandal problems. "Today's report confirms ments while reducing t.he
than they estimated in 

The trustees estimated that the so-called Social nurnbnr of workm·s paying
2004. but more than two that the premiums Security crisis exists in into tho systmn. 

decades before Social 

Mediearn benol'iciarins only one plaeo: the minds• White Hous~~ spokesmanSecurity. 
pay for doctor visits will of Hnpublieans." Trnnt Duffy also hruslwd
"The numbnrs leave 

increase about 12 percent Heid also argued that ofT thn 2030 nstimatn, say­nothing to doubt about tlw next ynar -l'rom $7R.20 enacting the koy l'oaturo ing, "President Bushfinancial condition of the a month now to $87.70 in of' the president's proposal wants to save Soda!
Social Secu·rity systnm," 

2005. This ynar's premi­-allowing youngnr work-Security permanently soTreasury Secretary John 
ums are 17 pereeht above ers to invest up to 4 per-that date never cornns."
Snow, chairman of the six­

what they were in 2004. cent of thnir income sub-Tlw trustoos said thatmember trustnes' board, 
Leavitt said the adminis­ject to Social Security Social Security's unl'triHiml
said during a news eon­

tration had begun to taxes -would rnakn tho obligations total $4 trillion
ferencn .. "The report 

address Medicare in 2003 fund insolvent in 2030, over tho nnxt 75 ynars, an
undnrseorns the fact. that 

with new performance somo 11 years earlier increase from last year's
we need to do something." 

standards for doctors, as than the trustens project-projection of$:~. 7 trillion. 
Sony PSP gaming system released 
Associated Press sale at the first possible moment. have additional supplies. evnn if the 
HALEIGII, N.C. -First "Star Wars" Sony hopns the sleek, portable sys­initial units arn sold out on thn first movies, then !larry Potter books. tem -which allows users to play day." Now, Sony Corp.'s new PlayStation games, view movies and pictures and By the middln of the year, the eom­Portable is getting the midnight­listen to digital audio-will tran­pany plans to irHTnasn production to relnase treatment reserved for the scend tho traditional young, male 2 million units per month. most hyped ol' pop culture products. gaming demographic. Retailers saw similar demand whnn 
What remains to be senn is whether Both ston~front and online retailers Nintendo's $150 dual-s1:rnnn hand­the handheld entertainment system have taken pro-orders for the systnm held hit thn U.S. markllt in November, can live up to consumer expectations since it was announced in September. soiling out its initial 2 million units -and whether Sony has manufac­And Sony has sold more than 1.2 mil­worldwide. tured enough to meet demand. lion units in .Japan sincn tho system's Tho PSP Value Pack will rntail for a 
Sony said Wednesday it had stocked launch thnre on Doc. 12. suggestnd prien of $2!i0. That buys North American retailers with 1 mil­"Wo will have 1 million units on tho gaming unit, sterno lwadphones, lion units for Thursday's launch. With store shelvns starting tonight at mid­a 32-rnngabytn Memory Stiek Duo. garners expocted to line up in antiei­night, and expeet them to soli those battery and ehargnr, a wrist strap. a pation, many storns were planning units very quiekly," said Sony soft earrying ease and a Universal midnight hours to get the units on spokesman Patrick Seybold. "We Media Dise. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, March 24, 2005 

RCIA 

continued from page 1 
called candidates, who have already been baptized but are seeking full association with the Church. 
The catechumens will be celebrating their sacraments this Holy Week, while the can­didates will be initiated into the Church on April 10. 
Each of these candidates and catechumens has a spon­sor, many of whom are Notre Dame students. Sponsor Eleigh Radigan said she takes this role very seriously. 
"Because Christ is present to us only in community," Radigan said, "and because we believe that the Church is the institution of Christ and His community on Earth, the role of sponsor/candidate, or _sponsor/member of the elect, is essential in the faith jour­ney." 
Many students elect friends as sponsors so as to experi-
Associated Press 

PINELLAS PARK, Fla. ­Terri Schiavo's parents saw their options vanish one by one Wednesday as a federal appeals court refused to rein­sert her feeding tube and the Florida Legislature decided not to intervene in the epic struggle. Refusing to give up, Gov. Jeb Bush sought court permission to take custody of Schiavo. 
The desperate flurry of activity came as President Bush suggested that Congress and the White House had done all they could to keep the severely brain-damaged woman alive. 
As of Wednesday afternoon, Schiavo had gone five full days without food or water; doctors have said she could survive one to two weeks. 
Supporters of Schiavo's par• ents grew increasingly dis­mayed, and 10 protesters were arrested outside her hos­
pice for trying to bring her water. 

"When I close my eyes at night, all I can see is Terri's face in front of me, dying, starving to death," Mary Schindler said outside the Pinellas Park hospice. "Please, someone out there, stop this cruelty. Stop the insanity. Please let my daughter live." 
The Schindlers have vowed to take their fight to the U.S. Supreme Court, which refused to get involved. previously. Their attorneys planned to file an appeal with the high court later Wednesday, said Rex Sparklin, a member of the legal team. Republican lead­ers in Congress also were ence their new journey with a comfortable guide. 
"A person experiences the love of God through others," Radigan said, "and if that love is powerful enough to call them into a deeper life of faith within Holy Mother Church, then it is not hard to see how such a person would want to choose a friend to walk with them." 
Candidate Sarah Roseberry said that their "faith-cen­tered" friendship inspired her to choose Radigan as her sponsor. 
"She was instrumental in answering so many of my ini­tial questions," Roseberry said. 
Each sponsor participates in different activities to best" ful­fill this role of spiritual men­tor. . 
"I go to RCIA with Spence LMcSorley, a catechumen] and basically my job is just to walk with him," Chris Scaperlanda, another sponsor, said. "We have lunch weekly just to talk about life and stuff, and if he has any questions, he comes 

Schiavo's parents suffer setbacks 
Federal appeals court refuses to replace dying woman's feeding tube 
preparing arguments for the Supreme Court in support of the parents. 
Schiavo's tube was pulled Friday afternoon with a Florida judge's approval. By late Tuesday, her eyes were sunken and her skin, lips and tongue were parched, said Barbara Weller, an attorney for the Schindlers. The hos­pice has refused to provide details about her condition. 
Schiavo suffered brain dam­age in 1990 when her heart stopped briefly from a chemi­cal imbalance believed to have been brought on by an eating disorder. Court-appointed doc­tors say she is in a persistent vegetative state with no hope of recovery. 
Her parents argue that she could get better and that she would never have wanted to be cu.t off from food and water. Schiavo's husband, Michaei Schiavo, has argued that his wife told him she and talks to me." 

Radigan and Roseberry said they go to class and mass with the RCIA group every Sunday and meet an additional few times a week to go to mass or just to talk over a cup of cof­fee. 
Many of the sponsors and their candidates or catechu­mens are making a special effort to meet during Holy week. 
."During holy week, he [Spence] and I are trying to go to as many of the services togettwr as possible," ScapiiTlanda said. 
The candidates view these next few days as a final prepa­ration for their sacraments. 
"I think a lot of my prepara-­tion for Holy Week has just been making sure that faith is a part of my daily life, which means a lot of 'me time' to reflect on my life, and a lot of time at daily mass and prayer and such," Roseberry said. 
Contact Tricia deGroot at pdegroot@nd.edu 

would not want to be kept alive artificially, and a state judge has repeatedly ruled in his favor. 
The battle played out on several fronts Wednesday. 
A three-judge panel from the Atlanta-based 11th U.S. Circuit Cour_t of Appeals ruled against the family early Wednesday, and hours later the full court refused to recon­sider; the vote breakdown was not provided. 
Jeb Bush and the state's social services agency filed a petition in state court to take custody of Schiavo and, pre­sumably, reconnect her feed­ing tube. It cites new allega­tions of neglect and challenges Schiavo's diagnosis as being in a persistent vegetative state. The request is based on the opinion of a neurologist work­ing for the state who observed Schiavo at her bedside but did not conduct an examination of her. 
JAPAN 


Bobby Fischer freed from detention center 
Prodigy halts efforts of U.S. deportation 
Associated Press 
. 
USHIKU -Chess legend Bobby Fischer was freed Thursday from a Japanese detention center and immedi­ately headed for flight to Iceland, bringing to a halt efforts to deport him to the United States. 
Fis-cher, sporting a long, gray beard, jeans and a baseball cap pulled down low to cover his face, left the immigration detention center in this city on Tokyo's outskirts early Thursday morning. _ 
The eccentric chess icon was taken into custody by Japanese immigration officials in July when he tried to leave the country using an invalid U.S. passport. 
As he was taken away in a black limousine provided by the Icelandic Embassy, his vehicle was mobbed by a few dozen photographers and reporters. Fischer did not emerge from the car or make any comment. 
Fischer was accompanied by his fiancee, Miyoko Watai, the head of Japan's chess associa­tion, and an official from the Icelandic Embassy. They were headed for the airport to try and catch an afternoon flight to Denmark en route to Iceland, where he has been granted citi­zenship. 
Fischer, who has been held in detention since his arrest, claims his U.S. passport was revoked illegally and sued to block a deportation order to the United States, where he is wanted for violating sanctions imposed· on the former Yugoslavia by playing an exhi­bition match against Russian Boris Spassky in 1992. 
This week, Iceland's Parliament stepped in to break the standoff, awarding citizen­ship to Fischer. Iceland is where Fischer won the world champi­onship in 1972, defeating Spassky in a classic Cold War showdown that propelled Fischer to international star­dom. 
Fischer, 62, could still face extradition to the United States -Iceland, like Japan, has an extradition treaty with Washington. 
Thordur Oskarsson, Iceland's ambassador to Japan, said before Fischer's release that Washington sent a "message of disappointment" to the Icelandic government over its vote to grant Fischer citizen­ship. 
"Despite the message, the decision was put through Parliament on humanitarian grounds," Oskarsson said. 
In Washington on Tuesday, the State Department said it had officially asked Japan to hand over Fischer because of the charges against him. 
"That's what we've asked for," said Adam Ereli, deputy spokesman for the State Department. "Mr. Fischer is a fugitive from justice. There is a federal warrant for his arrest." 
Japan's Foreign Ministry, which has denied that there has been any pressure from Washington, had no immediate comment. The U.S. Embassy also declined to comment. 
Tokyo initially refused Fischer's request to go to Iceland, saying Japanese law only allows for Fischer's depor­tation to the country of his ori­gin. But following Iceland's decision Monday, Japanese Justice Minister Chieko Nono said officials would consider the possibility of allowing Fischer to go there. 
Fischer became an icon in 1972 when he dethroned Spassky in a series of games in Reykjavik to claim America's first world chess championship in more than a century. 
But a few years later he for­feited the title to another Soviet, Anatoly Karpov, when he refused to de·fend it. He then fell into obscurity before resur­facing to play the exhibition rematch against Spassky in the former Yugoslavia in 1992. 


e 
re of tkis
• 






I 
s 
p? 
Please join us for an afternoon of reflection and discussion designed for dating couples who are discem:ing the next stage of a relationship commltfnent.. 
What's next for our relationship after graduation? What are some challenges involved in long distance dating? What's involved fn making a healthy decisions about a relationship? 


Thursday, March 24, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 9 
Planned Parenthood charges state officials 
Associated Press 

WASIIINCTON-l'lannnd l'arnnl.hood ol'fkials ehargnd WPdrwsday that Pll'orL<> by two staln al.lornnys gnrwral to snizn patinnt nwdical n~eords from tlw organization's eli nics are ainwd at discouraging wonwn from sneking abortions and other reproductivn health earn. 
Kansas Attornny G!HJPral l'hill Klinn and his Indiana eount1•rpart, Stnvn Cartl'r, dnny that's thn easn. Tlwy say the documnnts arn nnednd for invnstigations of child sexual ahusP and -in Kansas -pos­sihln illngallatn-tnrm abortions. 
Klinn is sneking the medical lilns of about IJO wom1m and girls from two abortion dinies, which arn mntesting on privacy grounds. 
l'lanrwd Pan~nthood sued thn stale of Indiana last week to stop the seizun~ or medieal n~mrds tlwrn, saying invnstiga­tors wnrl' on a "lishing nxpndi­tion," possibly to idnntify the partnnrs of sexually activo 12­and 13-ynar-olds. None of the records r<~questnd in Indiana involwd abortions. 
Thn stall' ar.tions follow an unsuccessful atl.mnpt last year by then-U.S. Attorney General John Asherol't to subpoena abortion rncords from several Planrwd l'amnthood alliliates as part of tlw govemmnnt's defnnse of a nnw law barring certain latn-term abortions. 
Karnn Pnarl, interim prnsi­dnnt of the Plannnd Parnnthood Fnderation of Amnriea, eallnd the dl'orL<> to got accnss to the reeords an "attaek on mndical priva1y" 
"Politicians with rigid anti­choke agendas arn trying to rip apart the covnnant that we have as providers with our patients," she said at a news conlimmcn. 
Kline, attending a seminar in Washington, hdd his own news eonfimmce to rnbut the allnga­tions. 
"Our investigation has been going on for a year and it's been seeret until the elinies aetually sought to open it up beforn the Kansas Supreme Court," Kline said. "So it's impossible li>r me to have the motivation of frightening women when I intended this entirn investigation to remain snernt." 
. ,, .
.A 
IRAQ 

War destroys Baghdad's beauty 
Historic 'Garden of God' falls to bottom of quality of life survey 
Associated Press 

BAGHDAD Baghdad, whoso namn means the "Garden of God," has fallen from grace. Known for cen­turies as one of the most beau­tiful cities in the world, its land­scape has been marred by eon­crete blast walls, barbed wire, steel barricades, sandbags and crumbling buildings poek­marked by bullet holes or gut­ted by explosions. 
Things have gotten so bad that the Iraqi capital has dropped to the bottom of a quality of life survey of 215 cities, conducted by the London-based Mereer Human Hesource Consulting. 
"We used to be under sane­lions and the eeonomic condi­tions were dire, but never was the city so ugly. Between the ehopped trees and the burned hom;es, it's a total mess," said 61-year-old Fadhila Dawoud, a teacher who used to take her students on picnies along the banks of the Tigris. Now they hold picnics in tfw school eourt­yard. 
That could ehange if the mayor has his way, and if the government comes through with promised funds. Work has already started in some areas, where residents are rebuilding homes and shops. 
Once dubbed the "City of Peaee," Baghdad was founded in the eighth eentury by Caliph Abu Jafar al-Mansur as the capital for his rising Muslim Abbasid empire. The city soon became the heart of medieval Muslim civilization -a meel~a of arts, eulture and architec­ture. 
Forming half-circles on the two sides of the Tigris, its sub­urbs, parks, gardens, mosques and marble mansions eanwd it the reputation as the riehest and most beautiful city in the world. 
Since then, Baghdad has sur­vived the Uth-eentury mayhem inl1icted on it by tlw Mongols, the 16th-century marginaliza­tion by the Ottomans and two decades of war and sanetions under Justed dietator Saddam Hussein. 
Saddam himself didn't help with beautification -most of the apartment eomplexes, gov­ernme.nt buildings and palaces built under his orders would not have won any architecture prizes. And then there were the dozen of statues and oversized portraits of the Iraqi leader that deeorated those buildings. 
After the U.S.-led invasion in Mareh 200:~. the city of 5 mil­lion became one large military barricadn: llumvnns and tanks roaming tlw streds, hnlicoptPrs rattling abovn, dwekpoints and soldinrs everywlwre. 
A two-ynar insurgnnry attacking honws and govern­ment buildings eompourHIPd the sears on tlw eity's faen, undermining its ailing infra­strueturn and lattnring thn remaining gran~. 
Beautiful date palm grovns that linnd tho 10-miln-long air­port road -a visitor's first imprnssion of Baghdad -had to bn removed to prevnnt gun­men from hiding in what has become one of the city's most dangerous battlelields. 
Tho rampant lawlessness has also nncouraged pnople to takn over buildings previously occu­pied by government olliens and eonstruet squatter setl.lmnnnts. 
Even dmnocraey has taknn its toll on Baghdad. Posters and banners of candidatns running in tlw landmark Jan. :w nine­lions -a collage of mismatch­ing eolors -are still plastnrwl everywlwre, tainting traf'lie dr­des and walls two months aftpr· the votn. lluge black bannnrs or religious invoeations and pho­tos of Shiite saints -a break­through for the country's majority Shiites opprnssnd under Saddarn -arn randomly scattnred around tho city . 
UNITED NATIONS 

France proposes prosecution plan 
International Criminal Court will try Sudanese war crin1e suspects 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS -Franee on Wednesday presented a U.N. resolution allowing for the prose­cution of Sudanese war crimes suspeets at the International Criminal Court, foreing the United States to ehoose between aecepting a body it opposes or easting a politically damaging veto. 
The Seeurity Couneil has been deadlocked for weeks on the issue of holding people aceount­able in Sudan, drawing critidsm that it has become mired in hag­gling while confliet eontinues to rage in the country's western Darfur region. 
The United States circulated three Sudan resolutions Tuesday -one authorizing a peacekeep­ing Ioree, another imposing sane­tions and a third tackling the issue of where to punish those responsible for atrocities. It said a vote on the final issue would have to be put ofT because of the divisions in the eouneil over the court. 
But Franee, Britain and others were determined to handle the issues at once. 
At a dosed council meeting Wednesday, the United States first introdueed the resolution to deploy peaeekeepers on which there is broad eouncil agreement. 
France's U.N. Ambassador Jean-Mare de La Sabliere then introduced a draft resolution that would refer Darfur cases since July 1, 2002 to the International Criminal Court. That was the rec­ommendation of a U.N. panel that had found crimes against humanity -but not genocide ­oeeurred in Darfur. 
"We've gone to great lengths to make sure that the text on the table is one that was most likely to be aceeptable or at least not objectionable to any eollmLh'lJeS," Britain's U.N. Ambassador Emyr Jones Parry said. 

In a clear eoneession to tlw United States, the resolution said citizens of eountries that have not ratified the treaty establishing the ICC who take part in opera· tions in Sudan wouldn't bn sub­jeet to prosecution by the eourt. 
The United States is Jlllt party to the court, and objeets to the world's first permanent war crimes tribunal in part beeause it fears iL<> eitizens eould faee politi­eally motivated proseeutions. 
"The United States position on the International Criminal Court is well-known and unehanged," said Hiehard Grenell, spokesman for the U.S. Mission, refusing to elaborate. 
JISfJ f~ t~ V5 ~ H,Jl!
............. 

Double Header! Saturday, 
Frank Eck Stadiu1n 
• March 26th. Free Admission with valid ND Student ID!
@12:05 PM motions.com for more information 
Tt·lE OBSERVER 




IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, March 24, 2005 
An unattractive option
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas Assr. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISIRATOR: Jim Coulter CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 63I-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsmc@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 63I-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 63i-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in"Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor inust be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ObSClrvtt (USPS 599 2-4000} Ui published Monday through Friday ex<:ept dwing CJWn itnd vacation periods. A ~ubscription to The Obs«!tVc::t i~ $I 00 for one acadtmk: y<:llt; $55 fot Qlle semes-ter. 
The Observer it published at: POSTMASTER 024 Sourh Dining Hall &nd address t:(H'tl~ccions (0: Notre Dame, IN 46556..0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid ar Notte Olltne P.O. Box 779 md additional mailing offiw. 024 Soudt Dining Hall 
Noue Dame, lN 46556-0779 
The Olmrver is a member ofthe Associ:uM Press. AU reproduction rlghts ate rc.aval. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

The University has made its statement. The regilding process of the golden dome wm· continue through graduation cere­monies in May. 
To the chagrin of many graduating seniors, there will be no scenic Commencement weekend family photos in front of the landmark administration building, no gleaming gold in the background-none, at least, without metal scaffolding sur­rounding it. 
It is unfortunate that those responsible for instituting the regilding process did noi provide students with sufficient notice of the project. The University's intentions were revealed quietly the Friday before spring break, Oi[he 
Workers began erecting scaffolds the following Monday, when even fewer students were around to see it. All subsequent student reaction, there­fore, has been that of surprise-rightfully so-and of resent­ment. The University had a responsibility to make the commu­nity aware. When it gave notice at an ill-timed moment, Notre Dame underestimated the negative ·student perception of its decision, and did not adequately anticipate the reaction that ensued. 
Though that reaction was somewhat slow in coming, it reached full force this week as the implications of the regilding began to sink in. Taking action on behalf of his classmates, senior class president Darrell Scott did a thorough job gather­ing information on the University's last regilding process in 1988. Scott found evidence that University oflicials pushed back the process until after graduation that year. 
But while Scott and his contemporaries showed impressive initiative pursuing a moratorium on the regilding process, they did not have the resources to fully understand the University's reasons for erecting scaffolds and for beginning at this specific time of year. 
This year's project is decidedly different from the work done on the building 17 years ago. This spring and summer, workers are not only regilding the dome. They are also taking on neces­sary additional projects, such as making structural repairs and sealing cracks in the statue of Our Lady. 
Whether the University intentionally or unintentionally with­held notice and specifics of the regilding, the work itself allows 
little breathing room. The nature of the 
process does, in fact, demand a six-month 
userver
when few students remained on campus and time frame, which South Bend weather nar­President Bush's visit captured the attention of rows to only this time of year. those who did. It is not wrong for students to charge the
Editorial 
University with a certain degree of oversight. 
Indeed, the prestige of Notre Dame and its 
demographic of students mean many parents · do not have frequent access to the campus, particularly stu­dents attending Notre Dame from foreign countries. 
Parents making their sole trip to campus should not be deprived of seeing the dome and capturing its memory. And all parents' graduating sons and daughters are justified in their disappointment at being prevented from preserving the perfect m.emory on film. 
But a picture isn't everything. 
Notre Dame is a top national university that will provide all of the same seniors who have voicP.d opposition to this project with a solid degree, friends for life and memories that run deeper than photographs and graduation day. 
So for now, seniors must recognize the regilding as a neces­sary evil, even though that option -like the golden dome sur­rounded by scaffolding-does not seem too attractive. 
The whole truth, and nothing but. .. 
Notre Dame rocketed to the top of the political correctness charts with the Vagina Monologues and the Queer Film Festival (QFF). That moment of glory is past. It remains only to note some key 
points regarding the Charles Rice QFF. 
The key strategy of 
Right or
the "gay" movement is 
Wrong?
to gain recognition of homosexual activity as a mainstream lifestyle. The sponsorship of QFF by Notre Dame lent important sup­port to that strategy. 
Our leaders' repeated sponsorship of QFF was the predictable outcome of their refusal to affirm the full and positive Catholic teaching. That teaching, in the Catechism, has three points: 
1. 
Persons with "homosexual tendencies ... must be accepted with respect, com­passion and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided." 

2. 
Homosexual acts are "intrinsically disordered. They are contrary to the nat­ural law. They close the sexual act to the gift of life." "Scripture ... presents [them] as acts of grave depravity." 

3. 
The homosexual inclination is not a sin. But, as an inclination toward an objectively disordered act, the inclination is itself "objectively disordered." 


Notre Dame's Spirit of Inclusion com­mendably promotes "an environment of mutual respect ... in which no one is a stranger and all may flourish." When it was adopted in August, 1997, I asked a Vice-President why it did not specify, in accord with explicit papal teaching, that the homosexual inclination is disordered. She replied that the 1992 draft of the Catechism did not include a statement to that effect. On Sept. 8, 1997, however, the fmal text revised the Catechism to state that the homosexual inclination is "objec­tively disordered." Through an apparent transcription error, incidentally, Bishop D'Arcy's forthright statement on QFF quoted the 1992 text of the Catechism on that point rather than the final language. 

Homosexual acts, and the inclination to them, are disordered not because of Church teaching, but because they are contrary to nature. Not even the Faculty Senate could repeal that law of nature. If, as the Catechism states, the acts are "objectively disordered," -how could the inclination to those acts be anything but disordered? But, if, as our leaders imply, the inclination is not disordered, why may it not be acted upon? 
The problem is that Notre Dame still refuses to affrrm that the homosexual inclination is disordered. So why is that a big deal? Because the failure to affirm that the inclination is disordered could lead students to conclude that the homo­sexual lifestyle itself is not disordered and is therefore a legitimate alternative, pro­hibited only by the teaching of an arbi­trary Church. 
This inference is strengthened by the solicitude shown by our lead~rs to those with homosexual inclinations, beyond that shown to students afllicted with other dis­ordered inclinations. Notre Dame partici­pated, rightly, in the national Eating Disorders Awareness Week. The University offers "smoking cessation pro­grams to all members of the campus com­munity who desire them." To treat an inclination to smoking as a disorder is politically correct. To do so with the homosexual inclination is not. This dis­parity reflects the reality that the de facto official religion of Notre Dame is political correctness. 
Ex Corde Ecclesiae lists as one of the "essential characteristics" of the Catholic university: "Fidelity to the Christian mes­sage as it comes to us through the Church." It would be contrary to that "Christian message" for Notre Dame to host an event that portrayed any disor­dered activity, such as excessive drinking or shoplifting, as a good lifestyle, even if the event included a panel to discuss whether those activities were really good. A Catholic university knows that they are morally wrong, It should not sponsor a program that presents them as debatably moral activities. Nor should it do so with homosexual activity. Moreover, a Catholic university knows that the inclination to any disordered aet is itsell' disordered. It should not mislead its students by omis­sion of that truth. 
The 1986 Letter to Bishops, approved by John Paul II, said, "[T]he proper reac­tion to crimes committed against homo­sexual persons should not be to claim that the homosexual condition is not disor­dered ... [D]eparture from the Church's teaching or silence about it ... is neither caring nor pastoral. Only what is true can ultimately be pastoral. The neglect of the Church's position prevents homosexual men and women from receiving the care they need and deserve." 
Notre Dame students are entitled to the truth. All of it. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School Faculty. His column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
News Sports Eileen Duffy Kate Gales OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Karen Langley Eric Retter Jarrett Lantz Kyle Cassily In your NCAA bracket, how many teams do you have left in your Sweet 16?
Viewpoint Scene 

"Turn your face toward the 
Caroline Mirrphy Kenyatta Storin 

sunshine, and all shadows fall behind." 
a. 1-4 9%
Graphics 
b. 5-8 40% Kelly McDonald c. 9-12 39% 

Helen Keller
d. 13-16 12% 

American author and activist 
*Poll appears courtesy of www.ndsmcobserver.com and is based on !50 responses. 

THE 0L)SERVER 






IEWPOINT
Thursday, March 24, 2005 page II 
East, Easter, Eastest 

Holy Wn1~k consists of' seven days culmi­nating with the most significant feast on the Catholic Chureh's ealendar: Easter Sunday. The week is filled with traditions -earrying palms into Palm Sunday Mass, the washing of' thn feet on lloly 
Molly Acker

Thursday and the Stations 
of' the Cross on (;ood 
Nobody Likes a 

Friday. 
Dumb Blonde 

As a Catholic. I regularly obsnrve all of' these eus­toms. However, from rneent conversations with otlwr students regarding tho upcoming !·:aster break. it has bneome apparent that most families have also incorporated plm1ty of' sncular traditions into their Easter expe­riencns. By partaking in both religious and non-religious rituals, we can obsnrve Easter as both a Chun~h holiday and a family holi­day. 
Tho most obvious of' tlw secular traditions is, of course, tho Easler Bunny. Tho histori­cal origins of thn Easter Bunny are derived from the pagan festival "Eastre," a celebra­tion of spring and fertility. As we all know, llw bunny is among the most fertile animals known to man, which causnd 17th cnnt.ury c;et·rnans to ineorporatn the Easter Bunny into the holiday, to involve childrnn in the l'niP!Jt·atiotJ. Tlw Gnrmans are also erndited with anotlwr tradition rootnd in fnrtility: the rustom of' d1ildren receiving colored nggs. 
In rny own family, wn havo always had the tradition of' the Easter Bunny, evnn though we havo not always helioved in him. Onn of' tlw mon~ mmnorable nights in Acker Family ion~ occurrml on lloly Saturday night when I was four yoars old. I rnl'usnd to go to sloop, IHH~ause I was strongly opposed to tho idea of' having a large rabbit hopping around my houso. evon if' he was going to bring me ln~ats. l>nspnraln to gel some slenp, my par­nnts finally assured me that no animals · would lw eoming into the house that night. Furthermore, they gavo me tho opportunity to thank them in advance for any candy or pros1~nts that I might l'ind when I awoke the following morning. 
Nearly two dneades have now passed since my parnnts confessed that, aside from tho C:adhury eornnwrcials, bunnies don't really hav1~ anything to do with Easter candy. Still, my morn continues to hide Easter baskets for both my brother and me every year, despite th.e faet that he is now 24, and I am 
21. 
AnotiHir lime-honored tradition that will hn renewnd this weekend is the Easter bon­Iwt. As a little girl I always needed to have an "Easter bonnet, with all th(l frills upon it" (as the Irving Berlin song goes), but I had just about outgrown the custo~ by the time I was 11 years old. llownver, alter I beat my oldnr brotlwr in our Eastor tennis match that year, I found the bonnet to have a sec­ond purpose. Never one to be praised for his good sportsmanship, my brother threw his racket in disgust after he lost, and it hit me square in the head. The bonnet was the per­fect way to hide the bump that resulted from his little "John McEnroe moment." Luckily, there have been no such incidents in recent years, seeing that I no longer wear bonnets. 
Another favorite Easter activity of ours was the fiercely competitive annual egg hunt that was held near my grandparents' house in Florida. In order to keep all of the chil­dren happy, there were special golden eggs for nveryono. One of my most vivid Easter memories occurred when I was hot on the trail of my golden egg, only to have my efforts thwarted when a lizard crawled up my dress. 
Bocause Easler is the most important Catholie holiday, we were always taught to celebrate with an eyo towards the religious aspect of the feast. In my housn, this meant that every year during lloly Week. my dad would make us sit with him and watch Ben­llur and The Ton Commandments, two bibli­cal epics starring Charlton lleston. Perhaps this one has more to do with my dad's taste in movies than any religious message, but it is nonetlwless part of the family tradition. 
This is not to say that my family losf1S sight of' the true meaning of' the holiday. On Easter Sunday, we all pile in the ear and go to Mass, where we encounter another of our holiday traditions: our inability to lind an empty seat. No matter how early we arrive, we nnver find a place to sit. I typically blame my lack of a seating arrangement on the so­callnd "Chreasters" -the people who only go to Church on Christmas and Easter. Still, all the standing usually helps us work up our appetites, which is perfect for the large family meal that we always share after Mass. 
Like all holidays, each family celobrates in its own way with a unique set of customs. Af'ter reflecting upon some of the rather unorthodox rituals that occur within my family during the Easter season, I have come to realize that while it is important to keep sight of the fact that we are celebrating Jesus' resurrection and our salvation, we can also recognize Easter as an opportunity for families to gather and spend quality time together. 
Molly Acker is a junior communications and humanistic studies double major at Saint Mary's. Her column appears every other Thursday. She can be contacted at acke6 758@saintmarys. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and nol necessarily those of The Observer. 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 

lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Dotne repairs needed now 
On Mareh 4, 2005, the IJniversity announced we would be undertaking a major efl'ort to regild the Golden Dome atop the Main Building, beginning March 7. 
Tho project, as was originally artieulatod, outlined the need to rngild the Golden Dome for the first time in 18 years; a means to redress and refresh our cam­pus landmark. Tlw project, hownvnr, is far more significant an undertaking than cosmetic correction and unfortunatnly could not bo delayed until aftor Commencemnnt. 
On bohalf of the University administration, we hear and understand your disappoint­ment surrounding t.he scaffold­ing and construction. We apprn­ciate and sympathize with lhn visual impact it will have on you at graduation. Unfortunately, there is no way it could bn avoidnd. 
Although tho Main Building is safe for continund usn, tho dome suffers from structural damage and watnr lnakagn that are impacting the integrity of' tho landmark. While the regild­ing process itsPif will be lengthy, the projeet also encom­passes structural rnpairs, strip­ping of tho finish from tho base of tho dome prior to rnpainting, repairing and sealing of' cracks in the statue of Mary, and, final­ly, the hand-applied rngilding. This process will take at hnst six months due to tlw strudural and base rnpairs. This was not a factor in the last Golrllm Dome faeelif't and eould not bo delayed to a May start. hneausn weather plays such a critical role in rnstorativn arehiliH~tural projects of' this sort. 
Tho (;olden l>omo rmnains our Univnrsity's most. dwrished landmark. We must continuo to protect the inlngrity of' the strudure as well as its hnauty. Wn ask your understanding and coopnration in recognizing tho nocd to assure the c;oldnn Dome shines brightly for tho futuro. 
Thank you all for your patience, undnrslanding, and most importantly, your undying passion for Notre Damn. 
John AHleck-Graves Execurive Vice l'residenr March 23 


Hope for Schiavo on Good Friday 
"I'm begging you, don't let my daughter die of thirst." 
This is exactly what is hap­pening to Terri Schiavo-she is dying of thirst. And it is piercing her mother's heart like a sword. 
On the cross, Jesus vocal­ized the words, "I thirst" (John 19:28). Yes, his thirsting was physical, but it was also spiritual. He thirsted for water and for souls, for a liquid and for love, for something to drink and for a people to accept him. Like Terri's moth­er, the mother of Jesus proba­bly said in her own heart, ''I'm begging you, don't let my son die of thirst." 
Blessed Mother Teresa of Calcutta used those two words -"I thirst" -as a driving force behind her ministry. She knew she was quenching the thirst of Jesus as she quenched the various thirsts of others. Today, we find before us a woman slowly dying of thirst because her feeding tube was removed l'ive days ago. 
I have the saddest feeling that Terri will die this Friday, on Good Friday. If so, she would die from the same hardness that caused Jesus' death: our inabilities to see the beauty of this person and to recognize her true self'. 
To me, it seems as though the question of Terri's life really cannot be answered in medical or legal terms. Instead, this brings to light one of the key areas where religion helps to inform socie­ty. I low can doctors, nurses, lawyers and judges determine when someone is, in their very essence and at thoir core, alive and when thny are not? Ilow can we, using nwdieal and legal torms, define such a thing? 
Somehow, though, we havo ruled that Terri Schiavo -tho true Terri Schiavo-is doad, and what remains is an inani­mate shadow of her. Because our society thinks that the real Terri is dead, wo are will­ing to let this shadow din, too. In fact, we are willing to cause the death of' this "shadow". 
As it was with Golgotha, I lind mysnlf to be driving in the nails and hanging on the (:fOSS. I feel sadness and pain with Terri, while I know that I am part of the culture that is slowly drawing tho life out of her. I am thirsting and causing the thirst. 
It is a tragie tension to lind oneself both persecuting and being persecuted. 
I hope against hope that Terri will live, and that her feeding tube will be reinsert­ed. I am praying for a miracle -maybe she will, somehow, l'ind words to speak, or olse our hardoned !warts will sol't­oned. I thirst for Friday to come and go without Tnrri dying. maybe life in tho stead of death will como on Good Friday. 
Wouldn't that be something, if resurrection came bofore doath? It is possible, you know. Only once did resurrec­tion have to como after death. 
Lenny DeLorenzo lnsrirure for Church Life March 23 

THE OBSERVER 






CENE
page 12 
Thursday, March 24, 2005 

CONCERTI ALBUM REVIEW 
Stroke 9 evokes sentimental emotions 
By CHRISTIE BOLSEN Assistant Scene Editor 

The first bar Saturday to mach maxi­mum capacity was not State. It was Legends. which achieved one in, one out status and left a line of people waiting on the steps outside, straining to hear chords of their high school and junior high memories floating from the stage as Stroke 9 played inside. 
Even though the band's newest album, "All In," was released in November, it is safe to say the eager audience was most­ly interested in reliving a time when they wrote notes in study hall and wore mini backpacks in lieu of old lady purses. 
Stroke 9 did not disappoint, playing its biggest hits from its first major label release, 1999's "Nasty Little Thoughts," as well as other hits and new material. 
Speeding further down memory lane, the set list included a cover of the terri­ble dance phenomenon, the Macarena, which conjured visions of those awkward days when the audience would consent to be seen performing the moves in public. The good-natured fans who danced onstage deserved applause, even though seeing it again was like a big neon "What wen'l we thinking?" sign. 
Stroke 9's treatment of other covers · farod much better -an especially rock­ing performance of Snoop's "Gin and Juice" nearly outdid the Stroke 9 staple, "Little Black Backpack." Watching lead singer Luke Esterkyn croon about his Seagram's Gin and Tanqueray was so funny that the light song almost sounded boring in comparison. The band also paid tribute to the quintessential alt-rock nerd band Weezer, with a rendition of "My Name is Jonas," although one dis­gruntled fan yelled out, "Play your own songs!" 

Unfortunately, for both former and cur­rent Stroke 9 fans, it probably would have been better for the group to contin­ue with Weezer covers than its own brand of less infectious, albeit similarly quirky pop-rock from its latest album. Just like most junior high boyfriends and girlfriends, the music is admittedly fun but probably will not stick around when something better comes along. If a listen­er does not take himself or his music too seriously, though, "All In" deserves a fair chance. 
Inexplicably, one of the most enjoyable tracks is the seemingly random and potentially annoying "Words To Live By." True to the band's "songs about girls" genre, but with a twist, it plays like an ADD get-to-know-you question game but prettier. "Do you like to heavy pet? Do you wanna make a bet? Did you surf the morning set?" Another standout track is the acoustically glittery "My Advice," which slows the pace and spotlights the group's fun penchant for spelling bee vocabulary. "It's cold, I know I resusci­tate my feelings daily for you I It necessi­tates this healing, not to bore you." 
The rest of the album bounces along brightly. "Set You Free" is a lyrical para­digm of the band: "She stops talking to me I With spiraling eyes that keep on twirling I And that ring, does it shine for me? I Like you said when I was shaking my rusty tambourine around your head." 
Its songs still scream "Total Request Live," but if you like parties and you hate goodbyes, Stroke 9 still has what it takes. 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu 
CONCERT REVIEW 

The Updogs rekindle spirit of rock 'n' roll 
By JULIE BENDER Scene Music Critic 

Poople used to live, breathe and bleed rock 'n' roll. There was a time when rock music was at the forefront of exis­tence,. causing generational divisions and stirring soeial movements along the way. Music used to be more than just entertainment-it used to matter. 
These days, fans are hard-pressed to lind that former passion l'or rock. The best musie out there is heard in small clips on Cadillac and Buick commer­cials. If you are lucky enough to see a band's reunion tour, you can sometimes catch a glimpse of what rock used to be. But even the concert experience has been soured with $65 price tags, com­pared with Woodstock's original $7 admission. 
Discouraging though the times may be -especially for those of us born a generation too late -there are moments now and then when the origi­nal spirit of rock is resurrected. 
One of these moments was Friday night. . , 
With Beckers as a venue, friends, fans, family members and a few hang­ers-on gathered to experience a cam­pus cover band known as The Updogs. Comprised of five musicians originally from Zahm Hall -Chris Davis on lead guitar, Joe Harris on bass, Jon Jahr on keyboards, Kyle Chong on pBrcussion and Drew Updike on lead vocals -The Updogs played a set list eclipsing the best of the decades from the 1960s up to the present. 
Scheduled to begin at 10 p.m., the band warmed up for 25 minutes before catapulting into their opener, AC/DC's "You Shook Me." Raw energy radiated from the stage as Davis tore into tho famous Angus Young riff, and that energy never let up once during the non-stop set of guitar-driven rock. 
Next on the list was an early Who song, "I Can't Explain," which saw Updike do his best Pete Townsend windmill impressions on air guitar. Luckily for the audience, however, no instruments were destroyed in the typi­cal "Who" fashion this early in the evening. 
The third song of the night brought the band into their element with The Doors' "Roadhouse Blues." Strutting the stage like a young Jim Morrison, Updike proved a magnetic stage presence with the band musically countering his every dip and dive. The group's exuberance was contagious, and the audience became the necessary sixth man of the band, singing and dancing to the driv­ing rhythm. 
For nearly two hours,. the band con­tinued in this manner, tearing through the likes of The Fiv-e-Man Electrical Band, The Kingsmen, Jon Bon Jovi, Journey and Led Zeppelin. More recent bands were not ignored as the group touched on the latest garage rock sounds of The Strokes and Jet. 
Closing the night, the band played the classic, "Old Time Rock ''n' Roll" sung by Bob Seger. The lyrics, "Today's music ain't got the same soul I I like that old time rock 'n' roll," never rang truer as the audience, pulled from their seats, demanded an encore presenta­tion. Though mildly unprepared for such enthusiasm, the band responded with the ever-appropriate "Piano Man." Jahr's keyboards set the mood, and the band followed suit for the evening's final number. 

And, right there, as the last notes faded out, with the band and the fans linking arms and swaying to this classic sing-a-long, for a moment the missing element of rock 'n' roll was found, just one more time. 
Contact Julie Bender at jbender@nd.edu 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
Thursday, March 24, 2005 
page 13 
=====

~ -=-=-~=~~-­
ALBUM REVIEWS 
1Handwriting' is a transcendent experience 
By MATTHEW SOLARSKI 
Seem· Music Cri1ic 
lloPs tho widn world of indio music rPally rwnd anollwr pn~eoeious, rural­ly-raisod t\rnoriean wunderkind nanrnd Conor? t\11 right.. so pnrhaps lw spoils it with two n's and obfuseatns it furtlrPr hy adopting tlw plwnntieally­oquivalnnt sobriqud "Khonnor," hut tlw ba!'kgrourrd of V1~rrnont's Connor Kirby-J.orrg will invariably 1woke com­parisons to that otlwr Conor all tlw kids arn talking about -Conor Olwrst. of Nnbraska. 
t\s "Khonnor," Kirby-Long crafts hnart.fnlt, introspectivn bodroom pop for the fuzznd-out information ago. t\s woapon of !'hoieo, lw employs not tho guitar (although guitars havn their say on "Handwriting") hut tho laptop com­putor, baptizing his musings in color­ful swirls of noise and tnxtun~d eloc-
Handwriting 
Khonnor 

Type 
~fo ~~: 4Jjs 11}8 

tronies. The result. to coin a portman­teau of sorts, is luscious "bodtop pop." 
This music Khonnor concocts falls somowhnre <dong the vast landscape stretching from trailblazing IDM artists like Fonnesz and llntel to lwartslring-pullors Death Cab For Cutin and Oberst's outfit. Bright Eyes. Kirby-Long wnars his inl'luenePs proudly upon his sleevol just as hn laundry-lists thnm in the "thank you" section of tho liner notes: Sonic Youth, My Bloody Valentine, Hadiolwad, and Tho Walkrnen (who, bizarrnly enough, lw thanks twice). Given his tnndnr ago of sevnntnen, Khonnor showcases an impressively evolved taste in music. 
The thirteen songs on "Handwriting" are hardly songs at all, at least in the tradition a I so n"se. Hath e r, they are records of instances, llashes of memo­ry and emotion, passing impressions, drifting across the room like midday shadows of clouds. When this record 
K H 0 N,Nll:R7:
HANDWRITJBff'~~~ 
works best, as on the soaring "Megans Present" or the woozy, somnambulant ''Daylight. t\nd Delight," the nl'f'ect is practically chill inducing. In the prop­er context., such as a post-date mid­night drive home. the melodies and atmospherics here could s1~rve as tin­der for a blossoming romance, or even resurrect a moribund one. 
In many ways, "llandwriting" is tho record Bright Eyes' "Digital t\sh in a Digital Urn" could have bonn, and indeed Khonnor with a K demon­strates an acumen for electronic arrangnnwnts that easily trumps that 
-of tho with a C. Lyrically, the younger Khonnor lags far behind the elder Conor -but then he lags behind in years, too,, and lyrical revel a lion seems the least important aim of "Handwriting." However, whereas the music induces chills, the lyrics do on occasion induce cringes. Much of Khonnor's script admittedly roads like notebook marginalia, scrawled during a moment's afflatus in one of the high school elasses he purportedly hates (in fact, the young man cheekily doelares in the liner notes that "no portion ol' this album's profit" will go to his high school). t\nd not even a heavenly choir or angels could render lyrics like "these plastic plates" and "sliced like rnoth1~r's chicken breast" in a mellillu­ous manner. One could also consider "Handwriting" an abstracted answer to the Postal Service's electro-pop milestone, "Give Up." The musie oper­ates in much the same way, embellish­ing lyrical elimaxes and creating exalted moments of its own in 

Photo courtesy of typerecords.com Although Khonnor's lyrics are not the best, his electronic arrangements are excellent. 
between. Yet the swells of distortion and relative lack of verse-chorus structure place "llandwriting" in a realm decidedly far from that ol' radio-groomed pop music. 
Although vindicated to an extent by his youth, Khonnor blunders from time to time, particularly wlwn he mars otherwise gorgeous arrange­monts with neodloss high-pitehnd vocal distortion. llowever, it is thmugh thnso very shortcomings that Khonnor avoids the ultimatn tragedy -releasing a perf"ncl rocord at age seventeen. 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 






Postal Service, Blonde Redhead deliver 
By MATTHEW SOLARSKI 
S"·m· Mu.<ic Cri1ic 
Thn little sidn-projecl that. could, Bnn c;ibbard and .Jimmy TamhorPIIo's Tho Postal Snrvicn, snnrns morn ubiquitous llran llw "I.OVI~" stamp t.lwsn days. ;\ full two years af'tPr thn largely unlwr­aldPd rPI(Htsn of' full-lnngt.h "Give Up." Sub Pop is still dangling aural carrots bnf'orn thn oars of' moonstruck listeners nagPr for rww rnatnrial. 
lntnrnstingly, it oplnd to press "We Will B•wonw Silhounttns" as tho third singln ofT of "(;ive Up." The track. a sunny, almost insouciant. account of nudnar holocaust (and a sing-a-long, no loss), was chosnn ovnr morn distinet rnalnrial lik1~ the Human League-
We Will Become Silhouettes The Postal Service 
Sub Pop 
.. ·'Jl , ) ;.>r) ' vi)
uti~fJ 1/jJJVj!J 

inspired duet "Nothing Better," the heartfelt "Clark Gable" or even crowd­favorite '"Brand Nnw Colony." 
Norwtlwles5, "We Will Become Silhouettes" sounds. as frPsh as ever-, rnrnovnd from its context nnstlNI toward thn cnntnr of "Givn Up." Tho song man­agns supnrf"ieial charm with its lithe elnetronks, whiln tho dialectic crnatnd hntwenn lyrical content and delivery is nothing short of a postmodern master­stroke. 
The gmn hnre is "Be Still My lloart," a thoroughly satisfying non-album track that is on par with thn finest moments on "Givn Up." Gibbard's chanu~teristic thrift-shop romanticism is in top form as he besnnchns his amorous organ against overreaction, for "this could bo a brand new start I with you." If' "Be Still" proves indicative of' the material on the inovitablo sophomoro effort. Postal Service fans have good reason to rojoiee. 
t\fter two solid numbers and a pass­able romix of "Nothing Bettor," Matthew Dear's remix of "Silhouettes" comes as something of a disappointment. While a decent rendition in its own right, thn track contains virtually nono of Dear's signature moves -the clip-elop heats and layered, looped vocals that have made him a preeminent presence in techno. In plaee of blips and beeps Dear provides a sparse arrangement cnntnred upon a strummed acoustic guitar loop. lt"works, perhaps, on a subversive level, but falls llat on its race on the dance floor. 
Blonde Redhead dazzles with "Butterflies" 
I laving graced listonnrs with tlw nws­merizing "Misery Is a Butterl'ly" just last spring, it comes as a most wokome surprisn l.o rind a follow-up EP on shelves during this season of' lovn and flowers. "Tho Secret SociPty of' But.terl'lies" collects the b-sides l'rom the New York-basml art roek trio's UK Singles, ineluding a new song and ren­ditions of three of' "Misery'"s standuuts. t\lso indudPd on this 4AD release are two musie videos, for "Equus" and "Melody." 
Biondo Bodhnad treats the eyes as well as tho cars, adorning this release with an f)xquisite photo collage eover that perfectly compliments tlw aesthetic standards set by "Misery"'s gorgeous packaging. The images also testify to the sounds ensconced within, a kaleidoscop­ic melding of the band's early distortion­laden leanings and a nowfound pen­chant for tho baroque and the einernat­
ic. The result, a dazzling neo-orchestral concoction, attimes eerie, and continu­ally mystifying 
"Butterflies" opons with a new version of "Messenger," featuring vocals from David Sylvian, one-time frontman for SO's glam rock icons, Japan. Sylvian does swift justice to Blonde Hedhead's words, lending the band a folky quality that distinguishes it from the sophisti­cated musical arrangement and breeds 

The Secret Society 
of Butterflies Blonde Redhead 
4AD 
fiij:J 0/ili>/J ~{J ~ 
cohesion through contrast. Listennrs are noxt treated to a nnw song, "Tons Confession," a hypnotic numbm· eon­strueted from warbling guitars layered over spnctral synthesizer tonos !.hal reeall Boards of Canada. Blonde Hodhead rounds out this stellar release with a Freneh vnrsion of "MI'lody" and 
an alternatn rendition of "Misery is  a  
Buttnrlly"'s title traek.  
As though they  were  nrlled l'rom  a  

musie box in a dust-bndneknd attil:, atop an old Victorian mansion in which ·tho notion of' misery itsnll' was eonenived, the four songs here are bound to haunt evl'n the most world-wnary of' listnners. 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 

3) ELLIOT SMITH-From a Basement on the Hill 4) FIERY FURNACE-EP 5) TORI AMOS-The Beekeeper 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, March 24, 2005 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Wisconsin-Milwaukee ready to face Illinois 
Panthers coach Bruce 

Pearl wants to keep focus on basketball 
Associated Press 
ROSEMONT. Ill. -The few dozen Illinois fans barely mus­tered a yawn, let alone righteous indignation, at the sight of Bruce Pearl coaching his team through a practice. 
Come gametime Thursday night, though, the Wisconsin­Milwaukee coach knows the reception will be as hostile as any he's ever seen. 
It's been 16 years since Pearl gave the NCAA a secretly recorded tape that he said was proof Illinois was cheating. He moved on a long time ago, and no one connected to the incident is left at Illinois. 
But for Illinois fans, the bitter­ness toward Pearl remains as fresh as it was the day sanctions were imposed. Instead of anoth­er step toward the Final Four, the lllini's game against the 12th-seeded Panthers in the Chicago Regional on Thursday night has become a chance to finally avenge past wrongs. 
"Regardless of who takes the floor against Illinois, do you think that team's going to be cheered?" Pearl said Wednesday. "Will there be a lit­tle more noise because I'm coaching the opposition'! Sure there will. I understand that." 
Pearl was a young assistant at Iowa in 1989 and working hard to sign Deon Thomas, a Chicago prep star who was one of the top recruits in the country. Thomas had given the Hawkeyes a ver­bal commitment but later changed his mind, opting to stay close to home and go to Illinois. 
Pearl kept chasing Thomas, though. Convinced Illinois was up to something shady, Pearl secretly tape-recorded one phone call in which Thomas seemed to confirm that Illini assistant Jimmy Collins had offered him $80,000 and a Chevrolet Blazer. To this day, Thomas denies Illinois did any­thing improper, saying his com­ments were simply those of a naive 17-year-old trying to get Pearl off his back without offending him. 
''I'm not that person that coach Pearl tried to say that I was. That's not me at all," Thomas said Tuesday from Israel, where he plays profes­sionally. "For him to go out and tell lies and then pass them off as the truth in order to hurt someone or try to gain some notoriety or whatever he was hoping to get from it, it's wrong." 
The tape touched off a 16­month investigation by the NCAA. Though Illinois was cleared of the allegations involv­ing Thomas and Pearl's tape, other infractions were found and Illinois was barred from postseason play in 1991. 
Thomas went on to become Illinois' all-time leading scorer, but he says his ability to trust people was forever shaken. Both Pearl and Collins saw once­promising careers derailed. The only job Pearl could get was at Division II Southern Indiana. 
"It's a tough situation," said Illinois coach Bruce Weber, who was an assistant at Purdue at the time. "You've got two coach­es involved, it's their livelihood. Maybe one guy went a little too far. I don't know. That's not my call. It wasn't good for either person, to be honest. But you've got to go on with life." 
Pearl maintains he did nothing wrong, and says he would do the same thing again. 
"That's the only thing that he has," said Thomas, who never talked to Pearl again after that phone call. "If he admits that he did something wrong, who would trust him? Who would even think about having him work for their university'?" 
Though Pearl knows his pres­ence adds intrigue to the matchup, he doesn't want it overshadowing Thursday's game. The Panthers (26-5) have enough to worry about, playing the top-seeded Illini (34-1). UWM used its vaunted press to stun Alabama and Boston College last weekend, but Illinois is better equipped to handle it with its three standout guards. 
The Panthers know they're not going to sneak up on anyone again, either. Illinois knows all about Ed McCants and Joah Tucker, sharpshooters whom Weber called two of the best players left in the tournament. 

"They obviously have the men­tal edge and have the capacity to bring it every game," McCants said. "I don't think that's going to change. They're going to bring it hard." 
And not because Pearl will be on the other sideline. The players were barely in grade school back when Pearl 
turned in Illinois. The brouhaha has as much meaning for them as short shorts and canvas sneakers. 
"Personally, I really don't know much about the situation," Illini guard Deron Williams said. "Growing up in Texas, I really didn't watch Illinois basketball until they started recruiting me." 


Sutton, Olson set to lead teams in Sweet 16 showdovvn 
Associated Press Look at me, what happened to "It's surprising we've never victories, trailing Bob Knight. explain why," Olson said. 
me along the line?" played in the NCAA as many Both started their coaching Just as Olson earlier worked 
ROSEMONT, Ill. -Lute After endless hours in gyms, times as he's been there and careers at high schools and out rough spots with star Olson and Eddie Sutton are locker rooms, and practices as many times as we've been worked their way up to junior guard Salim Stoudamire, one grandfathers, basketball lifers during careers filled with both there," Sutton said. colleges. After a series of stops of the nat-ion's top-long range and fellow members of the satisfaction and heartbreak, Olson is 7 40-255 in 32 years, along the way, both have shooters, Sutton is hoping to prestigious 700-win club in Sutton and Olson have sur­including 22 years at Arizona established two of the coun­find a way to get one of his top college coaching. vived three decades of major where he won a national title try's premiere programs. players Joey Graham, out of a 
When it was suggested that college coaching. in 1997. The Wildcats have Sutton's stopovers included two-game funk. Thursday night's matchup Their teams have met just been to the NCAA tournament Creighton, Arkansas and "I said yesterday if my hair between Arizona (29-6) and twice in that long span, and 21 straight seasons. Kentucky before Stillwater. had been black four years ago, Oklahoma State (26-6) in the those were in the regular sea­Sutton's record is 781-298 in Olson was at Long Beach State Salim would have turned it Chicago Regional semifinals son -Arizona won both times 35 years, and he's led the and Iowa before Tucson. white," Olson said. "From mid­pitted two "deans" against one in 1993 and 1994. Cowboys to 13 NCAA appear­''I've known Eddie for proba­March last year to mid-March another, Olson was quick to But Thursday night's show­ances, including the Final bly 30 years, a fine gentle­to this year I've never dealt respond. down in suburban Chicago is a Four a year ago when the men," Olson said. "I think a with a kid who changed as 
"We're old, yes," said the 70-meaningful one for sure. The Cowboys knocked off top-seed­good coach will adjust to tal­much as Salim has." year-old Olson, whose white winner takes another step ed St. Joseph's in the regional ent they have and I think Graham, the Cowboys' sec­mane is seldom out of place. toward a place where both finals. A national title has Eddie has done that very well. ond-leading, totaled just 15 
''I'm a little jealous of him," coaches have been several eluded him as his long career "He's still a very strong dis­points in the Cowboys' wins said the 69-year-old Sutton, times -the Final Four. Sutton winds down. ciplinarian. Guys are not going over Southeastern Louisiana who walks a bit gingerly. "He's has made three trips to college Sutton and Olson are cur­to be doing crazy things in the and Southern Illinois. And that a year older than l am. Look at basketball's ·showcase, Olson rently 2-3 among active full-court offense or they will won't do it Thursday night him, he could go to Hollywood. five. Division I men's coaches in have a seat next to him to against the Wildcats. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED 
Catholic family offering full time summer childcare opportunity; 4 children ages 6 to 12; Scottsdale Mall area; 
7:30 am to 4:30 pm;wages nego· liable; non smoker; own transportation needed. Call Maureen 36Q·lZ3B 

FoR SALE 
6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAC­ULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876· 3537. 

96 BMW 328i, white w/gray leather, automatic, sun roof, heated seats, 136k, great car! Under blue book at ~6300. 607·6680 

FoR RENT 
Now is the time to reserve your house for 06-07. Call 233·9947 orgoto www.andersonndrentals.com 
KNOLLWOODHOME FOR RENT, 4BD,2.5 BATH,$1650. 858-722-4469. 
Clean homes close to NO. 2-8 bdrms. High·end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent program. Blue & Gold Homes {574)250-7653 
DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW LEASING FOR THE 2005·2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS­ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2·5·7·8 BED­ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­2007 SCHOOL YEAR· 2·3·4·5-6-7­8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB· SITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574·234· 2436 OR· 574·315-5032. 
CORBY ST. HOUSE 4 RENT. MAY· JULY. CALL 284-5223. 
2,4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus, call 234-9923, ask for Rod. 
Close to NO Excellent area. 19237 Cleveland,6-7bdrm; 202 E. Cripe 4bdrm; 222 E. Willow 3bdrm. 2773097 
Room for rent. Very nice apt. com­plex 10 min. from campus.$350/mo.{517)974·6225. 
HOUSE FOR RENT: 05-06 year. 3­5 bdrms. Close to NO. Indoor Basketball Court. 272-3126 or 273· 9473. 
3 bdrm house, nicely furnished. 417 Napoleon (off NO Ave.)2 min. from NO. $1100/mo. 2 roommates/1 tam­ily. Call 299·9428. 
Oakhill Condo available for rent in May! 1 bedroom with finished base· men! (Could possible 2nd bedroom) Prime location near campus. $800 per month, all expenses included. Please call Stacey at 1-877·249· 1227 Or email at sclark@ salvilaw.com 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES ~ALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 
S.B. AVE-605 ST. PETER CALL 532·1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 
2·3 bdrm houses avail.now and 05­
06. Close to NO. Call 276·2333. Omni Properties 
OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4 rm, 2 bath. For details fimbel.1@ nd.edu or 574-261-0900. 
Two story house completely remodeled 2003. Ready for 2005-06 
school year. Off street parking i ncludes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student housing, Laundromat next door (drycleaning also), basement available for storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal. Call 289-4071. 

.-------------------------------------~--------~~------~---------------------------------------------------~~------~-------------------------­
Thursday, March 24, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 


NCAA TOURNAMENT 
Coaches match wits with season on the line 
always been some doubt about ry of the tournament. only way we're looking at it." class leaves, you can turn
No. 1 Washington 
us." Louisville (31-4) earned a If the Huskies were to make around your program," Pitino For good reason, Homar does­shockingly low fourth seed, and it, it would mark the program's said. "We were very lucky. We

and No. 4 Louisville 
n't want to make the semifinal this is the tailor-made opportu­first trip that far in the tourna­improved right away."clash in Sweet 16 -the winner will face Texas nity for the Cardinals to show ment since 1953 when they lost Lod by Francisco Garda ( 15 Tech or West Virginia -about that was a mistake. in the national semifinals and points a game) and Taquan Associated l'ress himself and Pitino. And honest­A master of motivation, Pitino took third in the consolation Dean (who made a Louisville ly, it ligures that the most bal­has milked that snub for all its game. reeord 103 3-pointors this sea­
ALBUQUEBQUE, N.M. -To aneed matchups will take place worth. That's not counting, of course, son), the Cardinals come into learn more about the coaching on the floor, not the sideline. The Huskies, meanwhile, are the 1997 movie starring Marlon The Pit having won 20 of 21. imn his team will face next. the Pitino has a . 739 career win­tired of hearing they're overrat­Wayans that culminates with Pitino, always known for his only thing Washington guard ning percentage and has been ed. the fictional Huskins winning pressing, pressuring style, has Will Conroy had to do was turn this far in the tournament six "They're a great team and the national championship. had to adjust this yoar, as on thn TV. times before -five with maybe they deserved a No. 1 Romar has had a taste of tho injurins and illnesses loft 
"I was just watching a spodal Kentucky, where he won tho seed, too," Robinson said. "But title -in 1995, when he spent Louisville short-handed. Last about him in the room," Conroy national title in 1996, and once this game is just a game to get his third of four years as an weok, for instance, the said Wednesday. before that with Providence. to tho Elite Eight and that's. the assistant to Jim llarrick at Cardinals smothered Goorgia 
The subject of the special: Homar made it out of the first UCLA. Tech with a 2-:~ zone -about Louisville's Hick Pitino ~ he of weekend for the first time this When Homar left St. Louis -tho last thing you'd expect from the slieknd-baek hair. the snason. Casual fans may still where IHl went 2-0 against a Pitino toam. moviP-star looks, thn 447 reeognize him more for his fivn Pitino -and returnod to his "Wo'vn playnd somn gamns in carnnr vic:torios, tho four Final seasons of' jourrwyman's work alma mater in 2002-03, he was Uw 50s and (,Os, wn'vn playnd l'our appnarances and, yes, the with tho Warriors, Bucks and faced with a team that had gono some games in tho 90s. It all orw made-for-t1~levision docu­Pistons than for what he's done 31-58 over the past three sea­depends on our health status," nwntary. in night years as a college head sons, a program with a few Pitioo said. 
l.itl.le-known Lorenzo Homar eoach. good players but no rnal history. Washington would profer this is in charge of trying to outwit ''I've never felt like it was me "The lirst thing we had to do game to be in the 90s. Tho Pitin o in tlw A I h u q u e r que against them," Hornar said of was crnato a culture, a winning Huskies havo beon running all Begional semifinals Thursday. the way he approaches coach­culture," Homar said. "And not season and more than making Bomar has 151 wins, is making ing matehups. "At the same just the score at the end of up for tho lack of a dominant his third trip to tlw NCAA tour­time, when I was in the NBA, games, but a model of how to big man. At 6-foot-H, forwards nanwnt and coaches a team and I'm playing against .Julius do things as a program." Bobby Jones and Miko Jonson that hasn't heon to a Final Four Erving, you know your role in That wasn't Pitino's challenge. are the team's tallest major in 52 years--not counting a that deal." He followed Denny Crum, who eontributors. movie a few years ago, "The Led by Conroy, Tre Simmons turned the Cardinals into one of Who will win thn matehup of Sixth Man," in which the and 5-f'oot-9 guard Nate the nation's top programs over Xs and Os'! lluskies won it all. Hobinson, Washington (29-5) a remarkable, :~0-year run. Homar isn't conceding any­
It was fictional, of course. surprised almost everyone They slumped a bit, but was thing. 
"I think thern's still a pnrcep­when it was chosen as the top there anyone who really doubt­"At this point, not much is tion of, 'Isn't that cute, seed in the Albuquerque region. ed Pitino could get them back going to change with the Xs and Washington is in the Sweet 16, "' The Huskies are, by most up to par-and quickly? Os," Homar said. "Wo are what Homar said. "I think nvery accounts, orHl of the most lightly "You're always hoping that by we are, and Louisvillo is what game we'vo played, there has regarded top seeds in the histo-the time your first graduating thny are." 





Knight credits wife for 'perspective' in games 
she hugged him throughout a eeL<;-from his first marriage. 
Associated Press 
nationally televised interview, Knight declined to talk about 
LUBBOCK, Tnxas -Whnn Bob tears strnaming down her face. how he and Karen Knight met. Knight madws in tho round of 16 But Karnn Knight oilers much Karnn Knight dons not do nwdia !ill" tlw first tinw in morn t.han a more than mnotional support. In interviews. decade Thursday night, orw of' his fact, the Oklahoma Girls' "She's been really good," Bob most trusted advisers won't be on Basketball flail of Fame membm­Knight said. "And not the least of tlw Toxas Tech bench. has bonn a key part of the brain it is her understanding about the 
Tlw Ilall of Fame mach brings trust that has helped turn around whole thing, about how dillkult a seasorwd staff'. 39 years of tho Tech program. this is, and how hard losing is. !'oarhing. H54 vktorins and 27 Karen Knight, who has been She has experienced all that." NCAA tournamont appearances marrie<:l to Bob Knight since She also has known the good into the ganw against West liJHH, is the eoach 's hoops sound­and had times during Bob Virginia. ing board. ller husband says Knight's career. 
Tlwre is also his wife, Karen she's the bettor eoach of the two lie won thrne national champi­Knight-a fornwr standout high Knights, and she suggesL<; defen­onships and 662 games at srhool coach who brings sharp sive strategy and helps players Indiana, but things turned sour perspective !hun the stands. with technique during practice. when school officials said tlw 
"It's a dillimmt. set of eyns with "The lirst time I ever talked to coach known for his 'temper vio­a n~ally good mind, is what wn're her about I basketball). I under­lated a zero-tolerance behavior talking about," Knight said. "It's stood how much she knew," Bob policy. h1~nn gnmt !iJr me to have some­Knight said. "I knew that immedi­Even before then, the Hoosiers body right tlwrn all the time." ately." had struggled on the court. 
Kar1m Knight made a rarn pub­The marriage is Knight's sec­Indiana made it to the round of lie appoarance -and oll'ered a ond. He has two sons-Tech 16 in 1994 but struggled after­"And she had to live with that, In a national radio intnrviow alter glimpsn of her husband's softer associate basketball coach Pat ward, losing in the first round and I don't think that was easy the Gonzaga win, he was critical side -after Tech upset Gonzaga Knight and Tim Knight, the four times. In those final years, for her, my disposition toward the in responso to a question about on Saturday. The coach brought school's assistant athletic direetor Karen Knight knew her husband whole thing," Bob Knight said. his replacement thoro, Mike lwr down from the stands, and f(Jr men's basketball special proj-was unhappy. Even now, bad feelings remain. Davis. 

Cheer on the Irish baseball team as they open their 2005 BIG EAST campaign! t f'· FREE Admission with a valid ND Student ID! 
j ~ 
., 1;'lt.. •• 

Visit www.notredamepromotions.com for all the latest promotional information 
,~---~-~­
1 
I I I I 
I 




OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, March 24, 2005 CoMf'lLED fROA,t THE OBSERVER'S w1 RE SERVICES Page 16 
Inside Lacrosse Top 20 
team record 
1 Johns Hopkins (12) 4-0 2 Virginia (5) 6-0 3 Duke 7-0 4 Maryland 4-1 5 Georgetown H 6 Navy 5•1 7 Notre Dame 3·1 8 Syracuse 1-3 9 Army 3-1 10 Cornell 2-1 11 Massachusselts 4-1 12 Princeton 0-3 13 Hobart 4~1 14 Towson 4-2 15 Hofstra 2•3 16 Rutgers 2·2 17 North Carolina 1-4 18 Denver 3-2 19 Bucknell 3·2 20 Brown 2·1 

IWLCA.org Top 20 
team record 
1 Northwestern (11) 7·0 2 Penn State (3) 5·1 3 Princeton 3·1 4 Virginia 4-1 5 North Carolina 6·2 6 Duke 6·2 7 Dartmouth 3,o 8 Georgetown 4·1 9 Boston University 4·0 10 Hofstra 5:-1 11 Maryland 5·3 12 Johns Hopkins 3-2 13 Ohio State 4·1 14 Penn H 15 Syracuse 4·2 16 Towson 5·0 17 Loyola 2·4 18 William &Mary 3·3 19 Vanderbill 2·3 20 Delaware 3-1 

Big East Baseball 
overa.;(( 
team record';,, 
1 Connecticut 1H 2 Villanova 10-4 3 Boston College 1H 4 Pittsburgh 10.5 5 Georgetown 12,8 6 Rutgers 9:-1 7 St. John's 8 Notre Dame 9 West Virginia 10 Seton Hall 
points 
419 413 387 372 354 322 313 302 273 259 226 218 200 190 181 151 128 127 124 93 
points 
294 284 271 257 234 223 200 197 195 159 150 123 107 100 83 75 65 58 34 30 


around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Louisville vs Washington 7:10p.m., CBS Wisconsin-Milwaukee at Illinois 7:27p.m., CBS West Virginia at Texas Tech 9:40 p.m., CBS Arizona at Oklahoma State 9:57 p.m., CBS 
GOLF PGA Tour: The Players Championship 12:00 p.m., ESPN2 LPGA Tour: Kraft Nabisco Championship Rancho Mirage, CA. 5:00p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 

Chicago White Sox at San Francisco 3:05pm, Comcast 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Associated Press 

Andrew Bogut was just another international play­er when the college bas­ketball season started, not even meriting an honor­able mention in the pre­season All-America ballot­ing. 
All that has changed now for the 7-foot sophomore from Australia. The Utah center was the leading vote-getter on The Associated Press' All­America team announced Tuesday. 
Bogut, who averaged 
20.4 points and was sec­ond in the country in rebounding at 12.4, wa~ joined on the first team by 
senior forwards Wayne Simien of Kansas and Hakim Warrick of Syracuse, junior guard J.J. Redick of Duke and sopho­more guard Chris Paul of Wake Forest. 
The voting was done on a 5-3-1 basis by the same 72-member national media panel that selects the Top 25 each week. The ballot­ing was conducted before the NCAA tournament began. 
Bogut received 60 first­team votes and 330 points, 22 more than Redick, who had 53 first-team votes. 
Simien and Paul each had 289 points with Simien getting 45 frrst-team votes, one more than Paul. 
IN BRIEF 
NASCAR's suspensions for 
crew chiefs overturned 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. -Hendrick Motorsports insists it's a by-the­book organization that plays within NASCAR's rules. 
If Jimmie Johnson and Kyle Busch failed inspection, then it had to be a mechanical issue, not cheat­ing. 
An appeals panel agreed. 
The National Stock Car Racing Commission on Wednesday rescind­ed the two-race suspensions NASCAR levied against crew chiefs for Johnson and Busch, and instead placed both on 90 days probation. 
Chad Knaus and Alan Gustafson were penalized 10 days ago because the cars they prepare for their drivers failed post-race inspection in Las Vegas. 
George Silbermann, chairman of the three-man appeals committee, noted that the decision was by majority vote and was not unani­mous. 
Warrick also had 44 first­team votes and got 283 points. 
Bogut was the only mem­ber of the first team not to have received any recogni­tion after last season. In fact, he was the only one of the five not to have been at least an honorable men­tion· selection in the pre­season All-America ballot­ing. Now Bogut is consid­ered a sure lottery pick, and the possible top pick, if he decides to declare for the NBA draft. 
"The thing that impress­es me the most about Andrew is his ability to get better as the year went along," first-year Utah coach Ray Giacoletti said~ ''I've never seen a guy his size with the versatility he has and the will to win he has." 
Redick is one of the best shooters in the game from long range -40.5 percent on 3-pointers -and the free throw line -93.7 percent. The 6-4 Redick averaged 22.1 points and played 3 7. 3 minutes per game for the short-handed Blue Devils, who won the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament for the sixth time in seven years and are in the round of 16 for the eighth straight year. Redick is the first Duke All-America since Jason Williams was selected in 2001 and 2002. 

"This decision pertains specifical­ly to the evidence presented in this appeal," he wrote. "The commis­sion's rulings do not have a bearing on existing or announced NASCAR enforcement policies."Super Bowl in New York may become a reality 
KAPALUA, Hawaii -The Super Bowl is coming to the Big Apple in 2010. Maybe. 
Now all the New York Jets have to do is get approval'for their stadium project on the West Side of Manhattan, which is no slam dunk. 
NFL owners voted 31-1 Wednesday to award the 2010 game to New York, provided the 75,000-seat stadium, whose cost now has reached nearly $2 billion, is built. 
"Today is a landmark day,'; Jets owner Woody Johnson said, "and the 2010 Super Bowl in the New York Sports and Convention Center will be a historic event. We're thrilled about this announcement." 
Sorenstam starts year off 
rolling 
RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. -Annika Sorenstam came to the California desert last year with a big goal befitting her status as the dominant player in women's golf. She wanted to do what no one had ever done ­win all four LPGA major champi­onships in one year. 
By the final round of the first major of the year, that goal was his­tory. Sorenstam was never in con­tention in the Nabisco Championship, and she would go on to win only one major, the LPGA Championship. 
With a new year, though, comes new opportunity. And this year brings even more. 
Sorenstam begins play Thursday in the Nabisco with a shot at all four majors once again, but the way she's been playing perhaps that goal is too modest. After all, Sorenstam has won her first two tournaments so far this year. 

Thursday, March 24, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 17 
NBA 

Philadelphia tops Detroit behind Iverson's 39 

reverse dunk. 14 rebounds, Jim Jackson
Pistons were unable 

Iverson stretched over two scored 15 and Steve Nash fin­to defend title against defenders for a running layup ished with 11 points, 1 0 assists that left some Pistons shaking and no turnovers.surging Sixers squad their heads, and he lobbiJd a It was clear from the opening 
high pass to a streaking tip that the Suns are a far bet­
lguodala on the left side for a ter team than the expansion
As.mcia t~J Press 

thunderous alloy-oop. Bobcats, who trailed by double 
l'llll.i\I>I·:I.PIIIi\ -/\linn lvnrson and lguodala had digits less eight minutes into Ivnrson toynd with Detroit's some help in keeping the the game. unusually arwmie dnf'nnsn, lin­Sixers in tho eighth spot of tho Stoudemire opened the game ish i ng with :~ 1J points and I 0 Easterw Conference playoff with a 19-footer, then Nash assists in tho Philadolphia chase. Chris Webber had 19 stole the ball from Bernard 76tH's' I07-S4 win ov11r the points and Samuel Dalembert Hobinson, who was making his Pistons. added 11. The Sixcrs shot 54 first start of the season, and 
i\ndrn Iguodala played 42 percent and had 27 assists on used a crowd-pleasing behind minutns and was in thn game 41 baskots. tho back pass to feed it into until thn final huzznr. long Detroit was without leading Marion f'or a dunk. Pnough to gPl a tripln-doublo scornr Hiehard llamilton, who Before the Bobcats knew it, with I 0 points. I 0 rebounds was out with a sprained left Stouckmire had added a dunk and I 0 assists. It was tho f'irst ankln. Bookie guard Carlos and Quentin Hichardson hit a tripln-doubln hy a rookie sinG(1 Dell'ino made his sncond start 3-pointnr for a 9-2 lead that Kirk llinri!'h on Fnb. 2H. 2004. in place ol' llamilton and had them gasping for air dur­
Coa!'h Larry Brown can't seorod throo points. ing a frustrating timeout. eornn ha!'.k soon onough for tho Hashemi Wallace scored "17 The Suns stretched their lead Pistons, who looked downright points and Chauncey Billups to 2Y in the second quarter, sluggish in tlwir s11eond road had "I !i for the Pistons, who and took a 70-47 load into the loss in two nights al'tor winning wore coming off' a Y"l-7(> loss break. livn straight. Tunsday at Clevoland. Mathnmatically, it wasn't the 
Tlw Pistons nntnrnd the worst Charlotte lost of tho sea­gamo ranked sneond in tho Phoenix 120, Charlotte 105 son _ that was a 112-SO loss to lnagun in f'nwnst points allowed Shawn Marion had 26 points Philadelphia on March 1"1. But with S1J.4. l>ntroit's opponents and 10 rebounds to help it had the makings to be just as wnrn shooting 4:{ pnrcnnt. That. Phoenix win a franchise record bad until a strong second-half all wnnt out tho window early 2Rth road victory by beating effort made it respectable. against tlw Sixors. who made the Charlotte Bobcats on Tho Bobcats cut it to 13 in thnir first night shots, then Wednesday night. the third quarter while many nirw of' tlwir lirst 10 and led by The Suns are now 28-7 on of the Suns' starters were on 14 points in thn first quarter. the road, besting the mark of the bench. Then Jason llart hit 
lvnrson was at his best, get­27-14 set in 19Y3 and 1995. a 3 to cut it to 91-81 with just ting involved in nvnry possible The victory was also Phoenix's over 10 minutes to go. way. lin had somn hustle ninth straight on the road, Then Phoenix sent its stnals, nifty passes and crowd­'which tied the dub record. starters back in, and promptly plnasing f'astbreaks. More importantly, the victory took control when Hichardson 
llo picked off one pass at the kept Phoenix ahead of San fed an alley-oop dunk into top of l>ntroit's 3-point arc and Antonio in the race for the Marion. linishnd with an oasy layup. lie Western Conference-'s best After an Emeka Okafor dunk also got out of double-team in record. for Charlotte, Nash hit a long the lane with a hard pass Joe Johnson also scored 26 ·jumper and Jackson hit con­around one defender to points for tho Suns. /\mare seeutive 3-pointers. to push the Samuel Dalombert for a Stoudemire had 23 points and Suns' lead back up to 16. 


Hart led Charlotte with 21 points off tho bench. Gerald Wallace returned from a seven-game absence with bruised ribs to score 17 points in 30 minutes. 
Chicago 94, Toronto 85 
Eddy Curry scored 16 points and the Chicago Bulls defnated Toronto f'or the eighth straight time. 
Hookie Andres Noeioni added 10 points and eight rebounds for the Bulls, who have won three straight overall. 
Chicago led by as many as 21 points, but Toronto got back in contention by taking advantage of seven turnovers in the fourth quarter: The Haptors used a 12-1 run to close within eight points, but Antonio Davis' three-point play pushed tlw Bulls advantage hack to Y1-SO with 3:5h loft. 
Tyson Chandler pumped his fist af'ter giving thn Bulls an 11-point lead with 2:12 left. 
Jalen Hosn scored 30 points for Toronto, whieh shot a sou­son-low 32 perennt. 
Toronto point guard Hafer Alston seornd 15 points on (>­f'or-21 shooting, while Hose shot S-f'or-22. Chris Bosh. slowed by f'oul trouble through most of' tho game, scorod nine points on :~-f'or-1 0 shooting. 
The Bulls opened thn seeond quartnr with a 19-0 run and outscored Toronto 40-20 in the period for a h 1-41 lnad at tho break. The 40 points wnre the most by Chicago in a quartnr this season. 
Students 
Fly Cheaper 
summer travel, study abroad & more 
Sample roundtrip Student Airfares from South Bend to: 
New Orleans  $168  Toronto  $141  
New York  $168  London  $511  
Las Vegas  $233  Rio de Janeiro  $672  



page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, March 24, 2005 
NBA 

Garnett, Griffin lift Timberwolves over Hornets 
ting that point across. points and the Los Angeles
Minnesota leads 

fn a game that featured Clippers sent the Milwaukee seven technical fouls and a fla­Bucks to their seventh straight
throughout in its 

grant foul in the first half, the road loss. 
second straight game Knicks made one of the NBA's Elton Brand had 24 points hottest teams look rather ordi­and 10 rebounds for the Associated Press nary in a victory over Boston. Clippers, who nearly squan­It was just the second loss in dered a 26-point lead. Brand 
MINNEAPOLIS Kevin 13 games for the Celtics since scored a season-high 31 points Garnett had 24 points and 13 they reacquired Antoine against the Bucks in a two­rebounds and Eddie Griffin Walker, and they looked noth­point loss at Milwaukee on came up with some key plays ing like the offensive jugger­Feb. 4, triggering an eight­down the stretch to help the naut that had surpassed 100 game losing streak that torpe­Minnesota Timberwolves hold points in six straight games. doed the Clippers' playoff aspi­ofT pesky New Orleans, 107-Walker shot just 5-for-20, rations. 
102. Paul Pierce was 2-for-5 and MichaPI Hedd scored 31 
After New Orleans scored six lUcky Davis shot 2-for-10 as points for the Bucks, who have straight points to pull within the Celtics shot only :38 per­lost six of eight overall. They five in the fourth quarter, cent, had their seven-game are 0-13 on the road against Griffin hit two free throws and winning streak snapped and Western Conference teams this converted a three-point play to were held to a season-low season and 2-25 over two sea­give the Wolves a 97-89 lead point total. sons. with just over four minutes to Jamal Crawford led New Los Angeles never trailed in play. York with 21 points, two of beating Milwaukee at home for 
Griffin finished with 12 them coming when he passed the fifth straight time and points and 10 rebounds for the the ball to himself off the back­earning a split of the two-game Timberwolves, who didn't trail board, caught it and dunked. season series. for the second straight game, Trevor Ariza added 14 points, The Bucks, who feU behind though New Orleans did make and Tim Thomas and Maurice 46-20 with 8:51 left in the sec­things interesting for most of Taylor had 13 apiece. ond quarter, got as close as the second half. The Knicks won for ti)e third 104-98 with a 15-4 run led by 
' 
Jamaal Magloire led the time in four games, keeping Anthony Goldwire and Zaza Hornets with 20 points and 17 their slim playoff hopes alive. A Pachulia. rebounds and J.H. Smith added big test begins Friday as New Goldwire, starting his second 20 points and seven assists, but York travels to Seattle to start straight game at point guard in it wasn't enough to keep New a four-game road trip, playing place of Mo Williams, who is Orleans from losing for the its fourth straight game against out with a bruised left knee, seventh time in nine games. a division leader. New York helped fuel the rally with seven 
The Timberwolves are going began the night in 11th place of his 13 points. Redd made to need to keep winning if they in the Eastern Conference, 3 three free throws after getting hope to leapfrog Denver and 1/2 games behind eight-place fouled by Quinton Ross on a 3­~;;neak into the Westerri Philadelphia. point shot, and Pachulia's tip-Livingston had four assists, a with Baron Davis and Jason Conference playoffs. Denver, Boston had its most lopsided in made it a six-point game layup and two rebounds during· Hichardson in a game featuring which did not play on loss of the season. with 2:52 left. the Clippers' game-opening 11-12 technical fouls, Mike Wednesday, holds a 2 1/2 game The Celtics had won their But Maggette helped seal the 4 run. They extended the mar­Dunleavy's jersey-tossing ejec­lead over. the Timberwolves previous thr-ee meeting with win with a layup and a 3-point-gin to 46-20, outscoring tion and plenty of trash talk. with 13 games to play. New York by an average of er, and Brand hit a 14-footer Milwaukee 25-9 during a 7:11 After tempers finally cooled, 
Just like they did two nights almost 19 points, but it became that restored the Clippers' dou-span with Simmons contribut­Dallas remained unbeaten in ago in a victory over the clear early on that the Knicks ble-digit lead with 1:04 left. • ing a 3-pointer and a pair of three games under new Hockets, the Timberwolves seemed to resent those beat­The largest deficit the Bucks 20-footers. Mavericks coach Avery nearly let a 20-point lead slip ings. have overcome in a victory this Bucks reserve center Toni Johnson, a former Warriors away. Crawford and Davis picked season was 13 points, on Nov. Kukoc responded with 13 guard-though the wins came 
Troy Hudson scored 12 of his up double technical fouls for 10 against Charlotte and points during a 5:19 stretch, against three teams that are a 18 points in the first quarter yelling at each other less than March 8 against Atlanta. but it hardly made a dent as combined 99 games under and Minnesota shot 63 percent two minutes into the game, Bobby Simmons, the only Milwaukee cut just five points .500. in the first half to take a 15-and Pierce and Thomas player to appear in all 68 off the Clippers' 26-point lead. Dallas has lost to Golden point lead at the break. received double technicals games for the Clippers, came Joe Smith, who came in aver­State just four times in the last 
New Orleans battled back, moments later after another off the bench for the first time aging a career-high 52.5 per­seven years, and the Mavs using a big advantage on the brief verbal spat. With the this season and scored seven of cent from the field this season repeatedly scored from outside offensive boards to close the game less than 3 minutes old, his 16 points in the fourth with Milwaukee and 61.7 per­while the Warriors missed third quarter with a 9-2 run. Haef LaFrentz was assessed a quarter. He was playing his cent in his previous eight open shots on the other end. Bostjan Nachbar knocked flagrant foul for taking too big second straight game with a games, attempted only three Jason Terry had 23 points and .. down two 3-pointers during of a swipe at Michael sore left leg after gHtting shots in 33 minutes and missed eight assists while hitting all the spurt, the last one coming Sweetney. kicked during Saturday's over-two. 13 of his free throws, and Van from the corner just before the New York led by as many as time loss against Sacramento. llorn had his best game since quarter ended that made the nine in the first quarter, let Injury-plagued Clippers Dallas 109, Golden State 97 joining the Mavs, going 8-for­score 80-7 4. Boston get back within two guard Shawn Livingston, the Dirk Nowitzki had 29 points 11 and hitting two 3-pointers. 
New Orleans had seven play­points midway through the sec­fourth overall pick in the draft, and 10 rebounds, and Keith Davis had 22 points and eight ers in double figures, including ond quarter, then used a 19-1 made his first NBA start after Van Horn scored 24 points in assists before fouling out for Dan Dickau, who had 17 points run to take a 54-34 lead. seeing action as a reserve in 15 the Dallas Mavericks' fourth the Warriors, whose winning and six assists, but was a lia­Jerome Williams and Maurice previous games. He had two straight victory over the streak was snapped after three bility on defense. Taylor ended the run with points and a career-high 11 Golden State Warriors. straight victories over probable 
dunks, Williams hanging and assists in 25 minutes. Nowitzki also traded shoves playoff teams. New York 107, Boston 82 swinging from the rim after The New York Knicks were in his. no mood to be swept in the 
On CAmpus

season series by the Boston Los Angeles Clipper 116, Celties, and they summoned Milwaukee 108 (.1rAIIUAtion l1!7eekend ...,SpeeiAl
some unusual feistiness in get-Corey Maggette scored 34 
{)!)A!J 11-16, 100J 
Need. Iii pLiilce for kjOurflil~tLtj to stliltj, 
TYkj tVIe Slilcred. f-telilrt Pcnis.V! C.eli\,t;er 
['E.u~L~~VI-0 31. or :L15~5 011\. kjOUY CCI ~pus ~li!ps.] 
we set Iii t;Jo.oo per pers.o~A-~oV\..Iiltf..o~A-for tVIe 
weeR.eV~.d. . 
..COMe eARLY [TV!urs.~Citj]-.STAY LAIT 
[Mo~A-~Iil tj1" -sli! me d.o~A-Iiltf..o~A-. 
For res.eY\IIi!Ho~A-s pleli!se cli!LL: Pli!uL ~d.d.tjli!t .5'7--f-G31.-7-51.:2. or Mli!rt:J rO~A-ferR.o li!t s;T4-G31.-:!J43G 





Thursday, March 24, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC TENNIS 
Conditions force Belles to postpone 
By TIM DOUGHERTY 
Spro1s Wri1er 
Wndnosday was a chilly day for Saint Mary's tnnnis. 
Tho Btdlns' match against Olivnt Collegn was eancnllod due to frigid weather eondi lions. Coach Don Stnvnnson said the match against the Comets will be resdwdulod f(Jr next Thursday. 
"It's NCAA rules that if it is lowor than 45 degrnes, then you'rn not allownd to play Uw nuttch,M junior eo-captain Kriston Palombo said. "Thal's a general ruin li1r our safnty." 
Saf(~ty is particularly important to tlw Bnllns al'lnr finding out sophomorn Gracn Gordon will miss tlw rmnaindnr of tho sna­son. MHI rnsults on lwr knee ramn back Wndnnsday showing a torn antnrior crudatn ligamont, c;ordon said. Gordon currnntly had a 4-2 rocord playing numbnr live singlos, and, with hor part­rwr Palombo. t.hoy havo a 4-2 rncord as numlwr two doubles. 
"We'ro really going to miss lwr." Palombo said. 
Tlw Bdlns' noxt matc~h is noxt Wndnesday at homo against the Univorsity of Chicago. 
Contact John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu 
MEN'S LACROSSE 

Irish head east for Easter break 
coach Kevin Corrigan said. "I really don't think we'll The llofstra match will be
Road trip to include 

"A lot of them will be able to have an easy day against tho fourth game the Irish games against both spend the Easter holiday with them this year," Driscoll said. havn playnd against a top-25 their families. It really works "They return a lot of players, opponnnt so far this season.Hofstra, Villanova out well." including one of The rigorous No. 9 Notre Damn will need the best schedule forces every advantage possible defensemen in the Irish to play By MIKE GJLLOON when facing No. 13 Hofstra. the nation in "It should be really at thn top of Sports Editor The Pride lost to the Irish 19-Brett Moyer. It competitive. tlwir gamn every 11 last season but they are should be really weekend to
We'll have to

Notre Dame will hit the not being overlooked. competitive. avoid dnfnat. road this weekend, taking on "I really don't expect to We'll have to be be at the top of "To tell you thP 
,

llofstra on Saturday and score as much as we did last at the top of our our game. truth, we've had Villanova on Monday. year," Corrigan said. "Last game." grnat practicos However, none of the play­year's game was a lot like Moyer was this week,"
D.J. Driscoll

ers will miss out on an Easter our win [22-61 last week over named a pre-Corrigan said. "I family meal. With ten Irish Butler. It was just one of season first Irish defenseman thought the guys players hailing from Long those days where everything team All-might comn in Island, a home game <Ptmos­went right for us." American by wit.h big lwads phnrn is assured. Irish de·fenseman D.J. Inside Lacrosse bncause of thP "So many of our players are Driscoll agreed the Pride magazine. lie leads the team win over Butlnr last weekend. 
from tho area," Notre Dame pose a stiff challenge. with 24 ground balls and is a But they worn vory f'ocusod two-time all-Colonial Athletic and practiced really well t.his Association player. wnnk." Moyer and Tho gamP junior attack-against Villanova man Chris will takn placP
"They were very
Unterstein, the Monday at I CAA player of focused and p.m. in Villanova the week, have Stadium. The
practiced really 
led the Pride to Wildcats havP
well this week. " 
two straight not playod tlu~ wins over oppo­Irish sincn 2000, nents ranked in Kevin Corrigan when Notrp the nation's top Dame won 17-IJ
Irish coach 
15. in South Bond. 
Hofstra Thn toams havP downed No. 15 not played at North Carolina 12-R last Villanova since 11J99, a ganw Wednesday and beat No. 11 the Irish won 14-10. Princeton 9-8 on Saturday. Unterstein had three goals and five assists in those vic­Contact Mike Gilloon at tories. mgilloon@nd.edu 



page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, March 24, 2005 
MEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Sprinters, distance runners and throwers split up 

By JOHN EVERETT News Writer 
Much like a baseball team playing a split-squad game in spring training, the Notre Dame men's track and field team will be sending athletes to two difl'er­ent meets this weekend. 
A group eomprised of distanee runners and hammer-throwers will head west to the Stanford Invitational in Palo Alto, Calif., while a diverse contingent of sprinters, hurdlers and field competitors will travel south to Waco, Texas for the Dr. Popper Invitational, hosted by Baylor University. The Stanford Invitational will be held on Friday and Saturday. The Dr. Pepper Invitational will take place on March 26. 

Those competing in Palo Alto include Eric Morrison and Brett Adams in the 1500-meter race and Kurt Benninger in the 5000 meters. 
The Stanford Invitational attracts teams from all over the country. Irish runners present will compete against runners from USC, UCLA, California, Washington and Washington State. There will also be a large number of unattached perform­ers at the meet. 
Among the Irish traveling to Waco will b~ hurdlers Selim Nurudeen and Austin Wechter, javelin thrower Derek Goguen and pole vaulter Justin Oppel. For Nurudeen and Oppel, the meet will be a homecoming of sorts, as both are from the Lone Star State. Nurudeen hails from Friendswood, Texas, while Oppel is from Amarillo. Many of Notre Dame's opponents will also be from Texas, as Baylor, Texas A&M and Texas Christian University will all be heavily rep­resented. 
Irish assistant coach Tim Connelly explained the rationale behind splitting up the team. 
"Stanford is usually a good meet for distance runners, and 
·with the favorable conditions we're hoping to get a bunch of NCAA regional qualifying marks out of the way," he said. "·The weather lin Palo Alto! doesn't favor sprinters, so· they'll go down to Baylor." 
Contact John Everett at jeverett@nd.edu 

NO WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD 
Irish to compete at Stanford and Baylor on break 
Team hopes to smooth transition into spring outdoor competition 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
So much for easing into the outdoor track season. 
A core group of Irish women's distance runners will compete this weekend in one of the most competitive meets of the season -the Stanford Invitational Friday and Saturday in Palo Alto, Calif. This will be the first outdoor meet for these runners who rested last weekend. 
The field is expected to be large and extremely competitive this weekend. This meet is con­sidered one of the premier events in the country, as it will attract several track power­houses from the West Coast. This includes the host Cardinal, who finished 8th as a team at the NCAA indoor champi­unships. 
The Irish are expected to send the same distance squad that ran to a second-place finish at the Big East meet last month. These athletes include Stephanie Madia, Sunni Olding, Katie DeRusso, Amy Kohlmeier, Elizabeth Webster, Jackie Carter and Brianne Schmidt. Coach Tim Connelly defended his decision to run in the meet, showing confidence in his ath­letes. 
"I wouldn't bring these girls unless I thought they could compete," he said. "There are only a handful of opportunities to run in a top meet like this. We want to take advantage of this NCAA-level competition." 
While the distance runners are at Stanford this weekend, a limited number of sprinters, hurdlers and throwers will be at Baylor University for the Dr. Pepper Invitational. This meet will feature many of the athletes who competed at the University of Arizona last weekend, includ­ing NCAA regional qualifier 

PPE THE MINOR IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
The PPE minor inYitcs applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy. political theory. and economic analysis. Eyery year about 16 highly motivated and talented student~ are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers and top graduate programs in law. public policy, philosophy, political science. and economics. 
If you arc looking for 

(I) an integrated approach to politics and justice. without all the requirement~ of asecond major, and 
(2) an intellectual community of facuity and students who share your interests, then PPE wants you! 
FOR MORE INFORMATION Professor John Roos. Political Science Department, 
Roos.l@nd.edu. 

FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, simply send arequest to Professor Roos. The application deadline is noon on Thursday, April 7. Late applications will be accepted only if openings are still available. 
PPE INFORMATION MEETING Wednesday, March 30,5 PM, 204 De Bartolo 
Maryann Erigha and long sprint same for the throwers. Outside standout Okechi Ogbuokiri. we add the javelin and the dis-
Connelly  cus. These ath­ 
explained that the  letes  need  the  
transition to out­ "Regionals is a  outdoor experi­ 
doors is usually more difficult for the sprinters and  realistic goal for a number ofour  ence." The goal for all athletes this week  
hurdlers.  athletes."  is  to  achieve  
"They're running  standards  that  
different races out­side," he said. "Instead of the 60,  Tim Connelly Irish coach  will qualify them for the NCAA regional meet.  
they are  running  Connelly felt con­ 
the 1 00; instead of  fident that these  

100-meter hurdles they now marks were within the reach of run 400-meter hurdles. It's the several of his athletes. 
• 
"If you look at the standards, 
they are reasonable. Hegionais is a realistic goal for a number of our athletes, certainly the ones going to Stanford. We ·qualified 15 women across all events last year, and I think we can have a similar number go 
this year," said Connelly. 
Those not competing this 
weekend are expected to make 
their outdoor debut when Notre 
Dame sends a full squad to their 
meet next weekend at Purdue. 
Contact Kyan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 


.... ­
~-~-• • • • • r·~ 
~ -~ 
---------------------------------------------------------"""""! 
Thursday, March 24, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS . page 21 
NCAA WoMEN's BASKETBALL 
Associated Press announces 2005 All-Alllerican a-wards 
Associated Press 
Seimorw Augustus plays with dazzling skill, a erowd-plnasing flair and, according to her coach, plenty of smarts. 
With that eombination, it's no wonder the I.SU star was a unanimous All-American. 
Augustus lnd The Assodated Pmss women's basketball All­;\nwriea tPam. whieh was announced Wednesday. She was tlw. only player pieknd for the first team by all 45 lnem­bPrs of' tlw national media panel that also votes in the weekly AI' poll. 
"l'nople marvel at hnr mid­range jumper. I marvel at the f'act she's always wide open wlwn the opposition has prae­tic.ed all week Ito stop her)," J.SlJ eoaeh Pokey Chatman said. "That's hneause she's etwebral. Shn understands what euts to makn and whnn to piek up the basketball." 
Augustus, a 6-f'oot-1 junior, recnivnd the maximum 225 points in the voting and was joined on the first team by Kansas State's Kendra Wecker (192), Duke's Monique Currie ( 180), Ohio State's .Jessica Davtmport (163) and TCU 's Sandora Irvin (153). 
Wockor reeeivnd 36 first-team votns, Currie 29, Davenport 22 and Irvin 20. 

Augustus and Wecker were third-team selections each of the past two years and both were on the preseason All­Ameriea team. 
"It means a lot to me to be picked and have everybody seleet me to be l'irst team," Augustus said. "I am very appreciative of this honor." 
Chatman and the rest of the Lady Tigers certainly appreci­ate having Augustus around. 
A year ago, Augustus led LSU to its first Final Four. This sea­son, the Lady Tigers were ranked No. I longer than any­one, won the Southeastern Conference regular-season championship and earned the top overall sned in the NCAA tournament. And it all started with Augustus. 
She averaged 20.1 points and 

4.5 rebounds while shooting 
55.4 percent in the regular sea­son, eomplnmnnting that mid­range jumper with an ability to take the ball to the basket, post up and lind an open teammate when double-teamed. 
Augustus also is talking more, and Chatman likes that, too. 
"Shn has become a more vocal leader. Not loud, but vocal," Chatman said. "I. think I 


Tennis 
continued from page 24 
the score indicated. 
Bayliss worked the team hard this week, both indoors and outdoors. 
"We've worked some more on our doubles, and we're 
GBroadway Th<.'atrc League pre&~lls 
"More Fun Than Any Other Show Of The Last Decade" 
. (hicilr;n frliK~nf" 


working on getting back indoors, taking the ball early, which is a component of indoor play," he said, noting that the team was also focus­ing on ground stroke drills. 
"We have been sort of watching the weather day-to­day," said Bayliss. "Monday we went outside and practiced ... Now it looks like we're going to be indoors lat Ann Arbor!." 
The lineup has featured a rotation of eight singles play­ers this year. 
"I've felt like we have eight players who arn capable. of playing singles and winning," Bayliss said. "If someone looks particularly good in practice, I might be so inclined Ito alter the lineup! ... We are tinker­ing with doubles and possibly making some changes in terms of combinations." 
Bayliss is unconcerned with the team's drop in the ranking from No. 16 to No. 20. 
"At this point, the rankings aren't particularly important," he said. "They only become important during the NCAA tournament." 
On Easter Sunday, the team will travel to No. 68 Purdue for their second match of the break. 
"That'll be a pretty quick turnaround after the Michigan 
match," Bayliss said. "We can courts in Ann Arbor at I p.m. handle that -we played at the Courtney Tennis Center. three days in a row in Montgomery." Contact Kate Gales at 
The Irish will take the kgales@nd.edu 


BtNNY ANOtRSSON & BJORN UL\1\WS' 
MAMMA 
MIA! 
TNt SMASH HIT MUSICAl ':f~';!'...ASBA" 
Morris Performing Arts Center April 12·17, 2005 
for tickets call574.235.9190 or toll free at 800.537.6415 www.HroadwayThealreleague.com 
..... ,..~-.

I=IH<Al.AIMI ,..,,•...,,.. ¢/1.-frE!
,.......,.,,.._.. ""'•"";.. 


,.......~"',. 
·=~v~"u ----~­
._._...\ft!-·t~nf-. .. ~-~.......... 

heard her whisper ... when they were having a team meeting. No one heard her, but the fact she's taking those steps is something she's worked on." 
LSU and Baylor were the only schools with two players on the three All-America teams. 
Temeka Johnson, LSU's feisty 5-3 point guard, was a second­team pick. Baylor had Sophia Young on the second team and Siel'fanie Blackmon on the third. 
Also on the second team were Minnesota's Janel McCarville, Stanford freshman Candice Wiggins and Mississippi State's Tan White. The other third­team selections were Notre Dame's Jacqueline Batteast, North Carolina's Ivory Latta, Texas' Tiffany Jackson and DePaul's Khara Smith. 
Wecker has been such a key figure in the women's basket­ball resurgence at Kansas State that her jersey number already has been retired. The 5-11 sen­ior, the Big 12's career scoring leader, averaged 20.6 points and 10.1 rebounds in the regu­lar season. 
"It's exciting and a great honor," Wecker said. "It's defi­nitely a tribute to my team­mates and the success we've had as a team." 
Strong around the basket, Wecker also could burn oppo­nents on the perimeter. She went 8-for-9 on :~-pointers while scoring a school-record 41 points against Illinois State this SCa£on. 
"I think that is pnrhaps one of the greatest individual perform­am~es I have ever seen," said Duke coach Gail Goestenkors, who attended that game. "She can beat you in so many ways." 
Currie, a 6-foot junior, had to become the go-to player at Duke following the departum of thrne-time All-American Alana Beard and Ieiss Tillis. She responded to that calling by averaging 17.6 points, seven rebounds and 3.3 assists in leading the Blue Devils to a share of the ACC regular-sea­son championship. 
"I am really proud of Monique," Goestenkors said. "The way she has helped this team accomplish so much this season shows what kind of player and leader she is. She had a lot of responsibility placed upon her." 
Davenport didn't receive a single vote for the preseason All-America team, but made herself known while leading Ohio State to a share of the Big Ten title. The 6-4 sophomore averaged 19.:~ points and 9.1 rebounds, shot 59 pnrcent and blocked 109 shots. 
She scored 36 and 32 points in baek-to-back games in latt~ January and was durable, play­ing thn f'ull 40 minutes in live st~:t!g!1t gamns in Fnbruary. .. 
flus has been a great year, Davenport said. "I am exeited about the recognition. My team­matns and I have worked hard this season to accomplish all that we have. I am thankful for everything wn have donn." 
When it comes to blocking shots, Irvin has no p!ler. Tlw 6­3 senior,. the niecn of f'ornwr NFL star Miehael Irvin, broke the NCAA's singln-gamn and earner records f'or blocks and averaged 20.1 points and 12 rebounds. 
Irvin set the game reeord while putting up an eye-pop­ping triple-double: 20 points, 18 rebounds and 16 bloeks against UAB. She is TCU's l'irst All­American in women's basket­ball. 
"That's what everybody keeps telling mn -that I'm the first to do a lot of' things at TCU," Irvin said. "It's a big accom­plishment and definitely some­thing I wanted to do. TCU gave me a chance to make that hap­pen." 


• March Madness 14 T.V.s  
2610 Prairie Ave.  • Student Buffet $5.99 all you can eat  
South Bend, IN 46614  -pizza, pasta, salad  
514-288-3320  • Starts at 5:30, till 8:30  
• Tuesday and Thursday night  
• Still accepting Graduation reservations  
• Seating available 2 to 1 00  
AFamnv Tradition Since1915  • For on campus delivery phone 256-9000  

-------~---------------------~~-----~-­
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, March 24, 2005 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
deficit into a 6-2 lead. 
Matt Edwards, Mike Dury and Greg Lopez each had two hits for the Irish. 
Irish coach Paul Mainieri came into the game with a planned rotation and used eight pitchers to cover the nine innings. Derek Olvey got the start and threw two innings while allowing only one hit. 
Freshman Wade Korpi (1-0) pitched a one-hit fifth inning to pick up his first career colle­giate win. 
The victory over Cincinnati ended a two-game slide for Notre Dame. 
An area of concern that con­tinued on Tuesday was Notre Dame's defense, as Cincinnati turned four Irish errors into­three unearned runs. For the season, the Irish have commit­ted 32 errors and yielded 33 unearned runs. 
Of Notre Dame's regular starting position players, Lilley leads the team with a .400 bat­ting average and an on-base percentage of .575. Edwards leads the team with 24 HBis and five home runs. 
The Hoyas are coming off a 12-8 loss to Mount St. Mary's Tuesday. The Hoyas gave up three runs in the top of the first and third innings, forcing the team to play catch-up all game. 
Senior Jim Supple leads Georgetown with a .446 batting average and is tied for the team lead in RBis (17) with Bill Quinn. 
Mike Gaggoli has made three starts this season for Georgetown and compiled a 
2.43 EHA to go along with a 2-0 record. Heliever Mike Halloran (3-1) leads the Hoyas in appear~nces with 10 and has a 
1.98 ERA. 
Seton Hall (4-10) visits Saturday for another confer­ence doubleheader before the Irish return to non-conference play Tuesday, hosting Western Michigan (5-7). 
During the past 12 games against the Pirates, the Irish are 11-1, with the lone loss coming last season in East Rutherford, N.J. 
The seven-game homestand ends Wednesday against Chicago State, who has started the season losing its first 20 games. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 
Backs 
continued from page 24 

and Oregon State's Derek Anderson (358 yards, four touchdowns). 
"A lot of games could have Chinedum Ndukwe and Leo Perrine on the current roster. 
Incoming recruits David Bruton (Miamisburg, Ohio), Hay Herring (Melbourne, Fla.) and Kyle McCarthy (Youngstown, Ohio) will join the group in the fall. 
Lewis, however, is already 
gone different 
ways ... but that's 
why you play 
football and· 
that's why we 
were 6-5," 
Zbikowski said. 
"We didn't get it 
done." 
Bill Lewis, 
assistant head 
coach of defense -and defensive 
backs coach, 
comes way of the 
NFL's Miami 

''I'm not concerned about what hap­pened in the past. We cannot control 
that., 
Bill Lewis assistant head coach {defense)I defensive backs 
confident in his players with the limited interac­tion he has had. 
"We've had a circuit-type workout where all the players rotate through the seven or eight stations," Lewis said. "''ve heard favorable reports about the defensive backs as they 

Dolphins to coach Zbikowski's end of the field. Lewis sees no point in looking back. 
''I'm not concerned about what happened in the past," Lewis said. "We cannot con­trol that. What we're con­cerned about is what we do from this point forward with the guys that we have in the program." 
The guys Lewis has in the program are young and inex­perienced. 
Zbikowski (70 tackles), Mike Richardson and Freddie Parish IV are the only defen­sive backs returning who saw significant minutes last sea­son, since Dwight Ellick, Quentin Burrell, Preston Jackson and Carlos Campbell all will graduate. 
That leaves players like Terrail Lambert, Junior Jabbie, Ambrose Wooden, 
pass through other areas ... 
and that's good because they have a great attitude as far as working." 
Notre Dame's defense gave up 
24.1 points on average last season a number that could have been even higher except for a solid red-zone defense. -But opponents were able to move the ball up and 
to hear, 
ping opponent passing games could be one reason he is leaving the starting slots wide open for competition. 
'Tm not concerned who was on the field and who wasn't on the field," Lewis said. ''I'm concerned about where we go from here." 
Lewis said he would stress fundamentals to his players over grand defensive schemes. He also said he is looking for­ward to returning to college football, in which defensive backs can jam receivers until the quarterback releases the ball. Compared to the 5-yard contact rule in the NFL, this allows for more physical play. 
Zbikowski was encouraged by Lewis' promise to evaluate talent that did not see the field last season along with those who saw significant minutes. 
"Everyone's going to have to prove themselves," he said. 
"/think we've got a chip on our shoulder right now, and we're gonna keep that chip on our shoulder until we get to where we want." 
Tom Zbikowski strong safety 
"Everyone's a freshman again." 
The statement rings true, as Zbikowski exhibits fresh­man-type excite­ment to get the spring rolling. 
"I think we've got a chip on our shoulder right now, and we're gonna keep that chip on our shoul­der until we get to where we want," Zbikowski 


down the field with ease when they resorted to a passing attack. 
Though Lewis said he is not concerned with the past, last year's futile attempts at stop-said. "This is a young, enthu­siastic: group with a lot to prove." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Attn: Class of Z006 Juniors-I• taken now till_-April 1, 2005 Spring photo shoot offers a $5 savings and a free resitting if needed Sign up online at www.LaurenStudios.com Who: Class of 2006 When: Pictures taken thru April 1 Where: LaFortune 108 Why: To be in the 2006 Dome Remember to Sign Up Today! www.LaurenStudios.com  

Thursday, March 24, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
DILBERT  SCOTT ADAMS  
CAN YOU WORK WELL WITHOUT SUPER.VISION?  YES! I THRIVE ON VAGUE OBJECTIVES AND A COMPLETE LACK OF RECOGNITION FOR. MY CONTRIBUTION!  CAN YOU HANDLE CRITICISM?  I'M NOT TOO PROUD TO SAY IT EXCITES  
ME!  

CHARLES SCHULZ
PEANUTS 


HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DRAIP 
1 
±
rJ 
<02005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
DUNTE 
BIMTAG j 
THE= PI<OFE:SSOI<rx SKIPPE::D CLASS 
1 
ON A BAL-MY DAY
www.Jurnble com 
BE::C.AUSE:: HE= WAS--­
I CUNESS j 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rxx 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans:. 
"r I I I I I J' rI I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: KITTY LATCH CHOSEN LANCER Answer: What he discovered when he tried to open the latch-THERE'S A CATCH 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Midway around 1 Terril 
a diamond 
36 Betty_ " 40 Wine that doesn't age 
4 "Ain't Too Proud 
9 Saunter 44 Literary
14 Education, governess
initially? 45 It can take the 
15 Amtrak offering long or short16 Like some viewpanels or flares 46 Toast 17 Emissions 50 Frederick's of inspector's Hollywoodconcern offering19 Southern sound 51 School of 
20 Messenger 
-tomorrow? 21 "Remington 
52 New York lake "of 1980's 
that flows into 
TV 
the Allegheny 23 Union 
56 Abrades agreement 
58 Place for many 24" -· go!" a PC 26 Dog option 59 Limy libation 28 Head of 62 Degree in England mathematics? 29 Sharp 63 Very little, in competitor recipes 32 Lucy Lawless 65 "Ia Orana title role Maria" painter 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

-:-r=-=~~ 
-:7.+-:+d::+.::-1 
~-:-+=+:::-i 
-;-;+-:+.:-:+:~ 
-:7:+7.-t~'!!!'t-~"7+:+=+:::-1 
68 Circus supporter 69 Wrinkly fruit 70 Wing it? 71 Pitiful 72 Treat unfairly 73 Doctor's charge 
DOWN 1 Teutonic title 2 Hall-of-Fame 
football executive, longtime Steelers owner 
3 Jurassic giant 4 Custom 5 "Draft Dodger 
Rag" singer 6 Doozy 7 "Someone 
America" (1996 film) a Light, rich sponge cakes 9 Back at sea 10 Annihilate, with "down" 11 Major's successor 12 Carriage with a 
fold-down top 
13 Cereal killer 
18 Listen to your gut? 
22 See 57-Down 
24 It'II show you the world 
25 Exxon alternative 
27 Asian capital 

.....,EBI-::-I-.::;+:+.::-1 30 Mustard, e.g.: 

Abbr.  
c o L  L  31 Santa  
T  I  L  E  34 Throw out  
s R o s  35 Gillespie, to fans  

WILLSHORTZ 

64 Camera inits. 
43 _ Torrijos a title for this Herrera, former puzzle 66 Neighbor of head of Panama Ger. and Hung.
55 What jokes are 47 Like a snob good for 67 Nevada county 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Britney Spears, Rena Soli:r, Stone Phillips, Ricky Felix Godinez 
Happy Birthday: The slow days of the past arc gone and it's time for you to stand up and he heard. Your entertaining way of apprmu:hing things will enable you to drum up the enthusiasm to follow through with your plans. You will get the help you n..:cd. Your numbers are II, 23. 26, 32, 3H. 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A speculative financial venture will pay otT. Deal 
with issues quickly hefore the festive season hlocks you from geuing things 
completed. A creative skill will he lucrative.***** 
TAliRUS (Apri120-May 20): Don't let anyone put added pressure on you. You 
can only do so much, so don't feel guilty because someone wants more from you. 
Do what's best for you fnr a dmngc. ** 
GEMINI (May 21-.lunc 20): Plan the vacation you earned. Someone from your 
past will entice you once again. This time you arc ready to take on anyone and 
everyone. **** 
CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Today is ahout trying to excel. You can make a 
career or financial move. A home-based husiness will work out well. 3 stars 
LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Not everyone will cateh on to what you are trying to 
do. The ones who do will he right hy your side. Shared ideas will lead to a 
lucrative deal. **** 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-ScJ>t. 22): You'll he thinking ahoul your future and your plans 
for the upcoming year. Decide for yourself if you have fulfilled your goals. It's 
not too late to backtrack. *** 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can have it all if you arc strong and control 
what is going on around you. Believe in your abilities and otTer suggestions and 
help to others. You will get what you want. **** 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nnv. 21 ): If you let things develop naturally, you will stand 
a much heuer chance in the end. Your jealous nature may get the heuer of you. 
causing upset at home and with friends. ** 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21 ): Moving around is whai it's all ahout today. 
The more versatile and candid you arc, the hcuer you will do. Purchas..:s made 
today will ensure someone's happiness. ***** 
CAPRICORN (Dt•c. 22-.lan. 19): You will he in too generous a mood. Think 
hefore you offer to pay for others. Don't hack yourself into a corner hy making 
impossible promises. *** 
AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Fch. 1!!): You'll be living in the fast lane, having a great 
time. The excitement that comes from following your dream can he exhilarating 
hut dangerous as well. *** 
PISCES (Feh. 19-March 20): Keep on top of work-related maucrs. If you arc 
asked to do something. don't trust someone else to do it. You will only get out 
what you put in. *** 
Birthday Baby: You arc serious and will go to great lengths to gel what you want and to help others. You are dedicated to your beliefs and will not bend to anyone who asks you to follow a different route. You arc smart, loyal and true to yourself. 
Check out Eugenia's Weh sites at astroadvice.eom and eugenialast.com . 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $1 00 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address _____________________________________ City _______________ State _____ Zip_______ 

Ti···I EOBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, March 24, 2005 
page 24 
Batteast, Duffy na111ed Associated Press All-A111ericans 
BASEBALL 

Big East action starts today at Eck Stadium 
Irish take on Hoyas in home doubleheader 
By MATT LOZAR Seniur Staff Writer 
The defense of their regular season Big East championship starts today. 
Hosting Georgetown (12-8) this afternoon, Notre Dame (8­
9) returns to Fr.ank Eck Stadium for a ·conference dou­bleheader, with first pitch scheduled for 12:05. 

Notre Dame has won its last see BIG EAST/page 21 
FooTBALL 

The primary secondary 
23 games against Georgetown -a streak dating back to April 20, 1996. 
The Irish are coming off a 10-4 win on Tuesday against Cincinnati. Second basemen Brett Lilley became the first Notre Dame freshman to ever collect five hits in a home opener. 
A leadoff homerun from Craig Cooper in the bottom of the fourth against the Bearcats setup a five-run inning where the Irish broke the game open, turning a 2-1 
CLEMENT Sophomore strong safety Tom Zbikowski returns a fumble for a touchdown against Michigan State last season. 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 
Senior Jacqueline Batteast and junior Megan Duffy were the leaders of this year's Irish and have received national recogni­tion as a result. 
Batteast and Duffy earned Associated Press All-American honors Wednesday, with Batteast earning third-team honors, and Duffy chosen as an honorable mention, one of 27 players to earn that honor. 
The awards were chosen by 45 members of a national media. panel who also conduct the week-

ND TRACK 
..... 

C.) Men's and women's Today's match was 
r . z track will compete at canceled due to cold Stanford and Baylor weather. The Belles
::5 

= this weekend. rescheduled for Wednesday.
cz: 
!;: 

.. 
ly women's basketball poll. 
Batteast earned honorable mention honors last year, and this year earned a spot on the team after what was arguably the best season of her career. She was named the Big East Player of the Year and was MVP of the Preseason WNIT. The finalist for the John R. Wooden Women's Award and Naismith Award, Batteast averaged 16.9 points and 6.6 rebounds per game. The senior was also named first-team All-Big East for the second straight year, and this is the fourth time she has been named to an All-Big East team. 
Dufcy was named first team All­Big East for the first time in her 
SMC TENNIS 

CAF1MEAN!The Junior Alex Nettey swings at a pitch in a game against Cincinnati Tuesday. Notre Dame won 10-4. 
Young defensive back unit eager to start over this spring 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Tom Zbikowski played his first full season as a sopho­more in 2004. That was a only a few months ago, when the Buffalo Grove, Ill. native was considered one of the younger players on the defense due to lack of experience at the col­lege level. 
But with four senior defen­sive backs graduating and a fresh start under head coach Charlie Weis, Zbikowski could become the tone-setter for the Irish secondary heading into 
career after averaging 12.3 points and 5.4 assists per game. 
She led the conference in steals per game with 2.73, and in free throw percentage, shooting at an 
89.5 percent clip. The point guard also had a 1.73 assist to turnover ratio, sixth in the Big East. 
The duo ended the.ir season Monday night with a loss to Arizona State 70-61 in the second round of the NCAA Tournament in Fresno, Calif. The Irish fmished second in the Big East, behind Rutgers, and were 27-6 on the year. The 27 wins are the third highest in school history. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

page 20 page 19

MEN'S UU!ROSSE  ~BA  ~BA  NCAA BASKETBAll  
Over Easter break, the  Minnesota 107  Philade~hia 107  Wisconsin-Milwaukee  
team will travel east for  New Orleans 102  Detroit  4  Coach Bruce Pearl is  
games at Hofstra and  Kevin Garnett had 24  Allen Iverson scored 39  ready to move beyond a  
Villanova.  points as th~ Timber- in the Sixers' runaway  scandal that occured 16  
wolves held off the  win over the Pist.ons.  years ago.  
Hornets.  
page 19  page 18  page 17  page 14  
__________________________j_  

Spring Football. 
"We're looking to be the strength of the defense and one of the best in the country," he said of the defensive backs unit. "''m up for the challenge, and I think the [younger guys] are up for the challenge, to prove ... we can play with any­one." 
Such a task would be a far cry from what Notre Dame accomplished last season. 
The Irish surrendered 281 yards passing per game and were lit up by numerous quar­terbacks, including Purdue's Kyle Orton (385 yards, four touchdowns), Pittsburgh's Tyler Palco (334 yards, five touchdowns), USC's Heismann Trophy-winning Matt Leinart (400 yards, five touchdowns) 
see BACKS/page 20 

CLAIRE KELLEY !The Observer Junior Megan Duffy dribbles the ball in a game against Michigan State on Dec. 2. 
MEN'S TENNIS 
Big Ten 
matches-await 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
It's another big weekend against the Big Ten. 
The Irish, who have had a week to rest their racquets from a 6-1 loss to No. 2 
Illinois,  face Michigan  on  
Saturday  and  Purdue  on  
Monday.  

"Illinois just moved up to No. 2 this week, and I think we. have to be ·realistic and understand .that that wasn't a terrible loss," coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
Michigan, ranked No. 56 in the ITA poll released Tuesday, defeated Michigan State 6-1 last night. 
Earlier this season, No. 20 Notre Dame narrowly escaped with a 4-3 score _in East Lansing. 
"Michigan is the better team, I think, but Michigan State's a very difficult place to play," Bayliss said. 
The Irish came out flat against Illinois, a team featur­ing two highly-ranked doubles players. Brent D'Amico was dangerously close to an upset of Ryler Deheart, ranked No. 4 in the country, at the second spot in the singles lineup. Irackli Ackhvlediani posted the only score for the Irish at No. 5 with a three-set victory, and Patrick Buchanan's dra­matic comeback attempt made the match closer than 
see TENNIS/page 21 






