
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Local leaders welcome Jenkins 

By MADDIE HANNA 
fusociare Nrws Editor 
University President Father John Jenkins will be given an elaborate inauguration steeped in Notre Dame tradition in exaetly two weeks. · 
So upon first glance, the inlilr­mal Wednesday reception for him and 70 prominent commu­nity membors at South Bend's llealthWorks Kids' Museum ­featuring giant plast.ie intestines, dangling skeletons and a trans­parnnt box filled with eigarette butts -might have seemed strange. 
"Someone described this a.•;; a neighborhood block party," Jenkins said. "It's just a chance for us to moot people in tho community in a relaxnd setting." 
Heception attnndt~es munched and mingled informally with Jenkins and staff membnrs in the name of eommunity rela­tions. And when .Jenkins made a brief speech, one woman remarked that he stood next to a sil-,'11 reading "SCABS." 
Despite the laid-back atmos­phero, there was a dear thmnn -maintaining and building upon the existing relationship between Notn1 Dame and its 
surrounding~. 
"What I've seen in the last sev­eral years is Notre Dame become a larger part of the community," Mishawaka mayor 
see JENKINS/page 4 
CJ's Pub 

set to reopen 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
C.J's Pub. a 21-ynar-old restaurant and har that boasts a thick eollnetion of I r i s h rn n II) o r a b i Ii a , w i II reopen to the puhlie next wonk aftnr a snvnrl month hiatus. 
ThP famous Irish landmark on Michigan Stn11't has bonn rlosPd sirll'«' .Jan. 19, 2004 whPn a six-story building nt>xt door ldl on top of it dur­ing a dt> nwli tion pro('(1SS gonn tPr'l'ihly wrong. 
"It IHtppnnPd at ]: 15 in the al'lnrnoon," said Hieky Joe M.-dick. wh·o co-owns the nstablishmnnt with his sistnrs .Judy and Cindy. "Tiwrn were four of us insidn. I had just walknd in tho hal'.k door and t.lrn wholn hack ol' thn build­ing just rollapsnd. If I had IHwn.fivn snronds latn walk­ing in, my sistnr would bn tnlling tlw story." 
On Snpl. I :l, thP pub will rn­opnn its doors in time l'or Notn• l>anw's first homn fool­hall ganw. Th1• l'oo(l will bn tlw same. hut a giant horsn­shon har and 1J2-inch tnlevi­sion wi II givn tlw place a nnw Io o k . M IHI i c k sa i d . T h r n n plasma TV's will also hn addod. 
Mndiek said customers will l'ind tlw rnstaurant "opened up." lnstnad ol' two snparate rooms tlwrn is now onn largo orw with thn horsnshon bar in tlw middln. 
1\ quarlnr of a million dol­lars worth ol' damage forced tlw puh to dose in ordnr to rnpair thn ar1~as that wnre 
see CJ's/page 6 

Local coffee shop honors Weis 
By PETER DEVINE 
News Writer 
Af'tnr the Irish victory last weekend, head football coach Charlie Weis is more popular than ever. 
Nowhere is this more evi­dent than at the Chocolate Caf1\, where they are now serving a new mocha in honor of the Irish's new coach, named the "Winning Weis Mocha." 
A popular hangout and eatery for students, South Bend eiliznns and visiting fans, the Chocolate Caf1\ inv1~ntnd this concoction "just about a month ago," said eaft\ managnr, Jessie Vancn, to ernate Notre Damn l'ootball atmosphere in South Bend. 
"During football snason, wn'II have dilTnrnnt promo­tions, especially if Notre 
see COFFEE/page 4 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

ND airs ad during Pitt gan1e 
By KAITLYNN RIELY 
News Writer 

Numerous limns dur·ing tlw Pittshurgh-Notn~ J>anw liHitball game Saturday, sludnnls gath­ered on North Quad nruptnd into chners as Notre DamP opened the snason with a win. Onn of thost~ clwnrs, hownvnr, was neithnr for the strategy of Charlie Weis or thn talent of the Notre Dame playnrs. 
Students also chnered in reaction to a nnw television advertisnmQnt promoting a Notre Dame education. 
In the commorcial, a girl is seen nntnring a ehurch multiplo times to light a eandle. By tho end of the commercial. it appnars that hnr praynrs have been answorNI, and she opens her. mailbox to find the much sought after "big envelope" from the admissions oiTicn at Notre Dame. Dropping the rest of hnr mail, she looks to tho heavens as the university's name and the words "A Higher Education" appear. 
Many studonts reported that the spot brought back nwmo­ries of thnir own quest for admittance to Notro Damn and the rush of 11IJJOtions that. camo with reeeiving thoir accnptance letter al'tnr a long wait. Frnshman KiiiPn Lewis, who watched thn game on tho North Quad, said "I felt t~hills," after sneing thn ad. 
Notre Damn's Ol'licP of News and Information was involvPd in creating Notro Damn's ad, or what they call an "institutional spot." Matt Storin, tlw assoriato vice prosident for News and 
see AD/page 6 




Meal plan includes more flex points 
By KATHY LEE 
News Writer 
Studnnts with the "Flex 14" 11111al plan wore in for a pl11asant surprise this fall wlwn they checked their balance at Notre Dame Food Servkns thanks to the allot­ment of 2RO flex points rather than tho 2(,() givnn in ynars past. 
Flex Points, dollars sPI aside in studonts' accounts to be spnnt only at food ven­uos on campus, are often prnferred by students who would rather eat at other food establishments than North or South Dining Halls for meals. 
"Flex points are a lot more convenient than using cash, 
see FLEX/page 4 


page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 8, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Happily disoriented 

No, I don't know your name. No, I don't know where I am. No, I don't know what time it is. No, I don't even speak English all that well. Yes, I'm a fresh­man. 
No one needs to help me in becom-Joe Piarulli ing "disoriented." I'm already disori­ented. I'm the mas-wire editor ter of" being disori­ented. In fact, I'm just striking random keys on my comput­er right now. 
You know, on a long enough timeline, any chimpanzee with a laptop could type this article. I know, because I'm plagia­rizing off that chimpanzee at this very moment. 
listen: when you're a freshman, you're supposed to be ignorant and at least marginally useless. 
So embrace it. As the wise Billy Madison once said, "You gotta cherish it." When the juniors down the hall want me to be more ignorant and even less useful, I graciously accept. 
Why? Well, ignorance is bliss -I'm having an awesome time and I barely know what's going on, considering that this place and these people are all entirely new to me. The best thing about being a freshman from New Jersey is that I'm doing pretty much whatever I want. 
No one has a clue who I am. I can yell at people, because no one will recognize me; I can ask ridiculous questions, because people will just assume I don't know better; and I can write absurd columns for The Observer, because no one here has made thP connection between my name and what I look like: 
It really has been a whirlwind meeting so many new people and learning where everything on campus is located. I'm try­ing to enjoy it now before I eventually realize that these are the people and places I'll be seeing every day for four years, and I'm eventually going to have to learn real names and stop calling everyone 'dude'-especially the priests. 
People aren't in college because they know exactly what to do with their lives. They're in college because they're trying to figure that out. 
Sometime between throwing water balloons, yelling at the television during the football game, playing 'apple fork' in the dining hall and trying to dodge the sprinklers, I realized that I was having fun with people even ifI forgot their names six seconds after they told me. Sometimes you know the most about someone when you don't know anything about them. 
This blank slate situation only come!) along once in a great while, so it's not sensible to act timid. I go out of my way to talk to lots of people, and I hope peo­ple here aren't afraid to come talk to me. Just because I'm in the 'dog book' does­n't mean I bite. 
That joke was exceptionally lame, but I'm serious -people keep telling the freshman class that we'll settle in, that we'll fit in and that we'll find a place somewhere. 
Don't listen to any of that junk. It isn't fun to settle in or fit in, because ifyou don't limit yourself to certain places and people, then everyone can be your friend, and everywhere can be your home. 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU DO DURING FOOTBALL COMMERCIAL BREAKS? 









"Refuel for the "Fondue." "Fondon 't." excitement. " 
'1 went around "Fire it in pal!" "/ made fun of 
and wrote victory vandalism on everyone's message board." 

FRANCESCA SETA!The Observer 
Students engross themselves in their reading assignments and coursework Wednesday in the Coleman-Morse Center. 
OFFBEAT 

Police officials find bus loaded with animals MEXICO CITY -The bus from Catemaco turned out to be a wild ride indeed: turtles and lizards, snakes and tarantulas, parrots and even an eagle rode along with the apparently unwit­ting passengers. 
Mexico's federal attorney general's office said Wednesday that federal police had seized more than 130 wild animals they dis­covered in the luggage compartment of a bus headed to Mexico City from Catemaco, a region of east­ern famed for its diverse wildlife as well as for tradi­tiona! Indian medicine men. 
The wildlife was discov­ered when officers heard odd sounds coming from the luggage compartment of an ADO bus at a check­point in Chalco on the east­ern outskirts of Mexico City. 
Delivery man steals prized Notre Dame tickets ELKHART, Ind. -A man whose prized University of Notre Dame season football tickets failed to arrive found out from police where they ended up -at the delivery man's house. 
The Elkhart man called the delivery service Aug. 16 after his tickets failed to arrive and was told that they had been dropped off at the wrong address. 
But this week, police told the man that his tickets were definitely at the wrong address -they were at the home of Ronnie J. Allard, 38, the delivery man. 
Elkhart County Patrolman Jason Ray said Allard, who faces a felony charge of possession of stolen proper­ty, said he asked his girl­friend to steal the tickets after he delivered them to the man's front porch. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY a: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
c( 


(.) 


-1 0 HIGH 82 82 HIGH 82 HIGH 85 LOW 63 63 LOW 58 LOW 63 

all the stupid commercials. " 

IN BRIEF 
Students who participated in Mexico TIES, a volunteer pro­gram with Universidad de Guadalajara students, will give presentations today in the Hesburgh Center in C-1 03 at 3 p.m. 
James Darsey, a professor of communication at Georgia State University, will give a lec­ture titled "Cosmopolitansim and the Location of Moral Argument in a Post-Prophetic World" today at 4 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The film "Metropolis," about a de-humanized proletariat laboring in a busy city, will be shone as part of the Physics and Film Series today at 7 p.m. in the Browning Cinema Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
New Yorker columnist Ken Auletta will give a lecture titled "Who do journalists work for?" today at 7:30 p.m. in C­100 of the Heshurgh Center. The talk is sponsored by the GaUvin Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. 
HAND, Notre Dame's improv comedy group, will put on a show today at 10 p.m. at Legends. Admission is free. 
Patrick Allit of Emory University will give a lecture titled "Catholics and the Intellectual Life in Late 20th Century America" Friday at 4 
p.m. in the Eck Visitors Center. It is sponsored by the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 
HIGH 89 HIGH 
88 

LOW 65 LOW 
64 

Atlanta 74 I 62 Boston 70 I 49 Chicago 64 I 48 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 78 I 72 Minneapolis 80 162 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 75 149 
Thursday, September 8, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
STUDENT SENATE 

Ticket distribution addressed 
By MADDIE HANNA A,sodate News Editor 
Dntnrminml to avoid a repeat of last spring's long, heatnd and ultimatnly ineondusivn basket­ball ticknting dnhatn, Student Snnatn quickly dneidnd to smul a lnltnr to director of ticket opnrations Josh Bnrlo at Wndnnsday's meeting. 
Tlw Iotter, an updatnd ver­sion of onn proposed last year, foeusns on increasing both stu­dnnt altnndanee and student ticket options. 
"One of our top priorities is to improvn t.he student ticket exehangn," the letter read. "Although it was not very suc­cessful last year, we b111ieve the ticket exchange has great promise, and with some modifi­cation, it could become one of the key factors in boosting stu­dent attendance at home games." 
Another key issue proposed in the letter is "Midnight Madness," an event open to the gen11ral public designed to pump up fans right before the season begins. 
·"Most schools do this," University Affairs committee chair Matt Walsh said. "And 
I Bnrlo I actually seems prdty excitnd about that." 
Walsh said his committee would like to survey the stu­doni. body to lind out how many games the average student tieknt-holder aetually attends, "so we can be better informed." 
Senators approved a second Iotter regarding "Majors Night," an idea proposed by tho Academic Affairs committee. 
"The committee hopes to ere­ate an event that will be similar to 'Activities Night,' where stu­donts will have the ability to come and learn about all pro­grams that interest them," the letter said. 
The proposal includes invit­ing loeal high schools in order to "not only provide a service to the local community, but [also] demonstrate the importance of a post high school education in today's world." 
Academic Affairs committee chair Chris llarris said details would probably change closer to the event's projected date next spring. 
Senators also confirmed the topic for this fall's presentation to the Board of Trustees ­community relations. 
Student body president Dave Baron said his experience this summer talking to South Bend residents about problematic student parties off campus drove home a point. 
"Whether or not people believe in the ordinance, it really brought issues [to light] about how we're regarded in South Bend," Baron said. "We're respected around the world, but at our doorstep, if you say you're from Notre Dame it's not necessarily a good thing." 

Student government makes a presentation on a topic of its ehoiee to the Board of Trustees three times a year. 
Senior Class Council officers took the podium at tho begin­ning of the meeting to promote the Walk for the Cure, a Sept. 18 benefit walk for people with diabetes. 
Senior Class secretary Ben Zerante, who has Type-1 dia­betes, asked senators to spread the message to their dorms. 
"Every year Notre Dame stu­dents participate, but it's kind of disorganized," Zerante said. "This year w~ would like one· unified group walking." 
Students can register online for the walk at www.jdrf.org. 
In other Senate news 
+ Head of student activities Brian Coughlin urged senators to volunteer to collect dona­tions for Hurricane Katrina vic­tims at the home Michigan State football game Sept. 1 7, noting the success and impor­tance of the post-9/11· collection that raised close to $280,000. 
"It was really the publie faee of the University," Coughlin said. "It was all over broadcast TV. It reflected well on the University, and it was the right thing to do. And it's not some­thing that's just going to hap­pen." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
Health care, parking discussed by 111e111bers 
By MAGGIE HYDE News Writer 
Bagpipe music came drifting through the window in the middle of the Graduate Student Union's first meeting of the academic ynar Wndnesday. The unexpected sur­prise did not seem to rattle presi­dent Misty Schieberle or any other representatives who were intent upon the agenda and issues of the 2005-2006 year. 
Scheiberle welcomed all attend­ing the meeting and thanked them for participating in such a "worthwhile endeavor." 
Union members unanimously approved the 2005-2006 budget and then outlined plans to tackle various issues this year. Graduate student health care/medical leave policy, improved parking for graduate students and support of the Higher Education Affordability and Equity Act topped the list of agenda issues. 
Scheiberle distributed a report to meeting attendees which addressed health care, parking, social activities, graduate student · orientation and travel grants. 
"Better health care remains a eore goal of the Graduate Student Union," Schierberle said in the President's Report. "We are con­tinually in contact with Anne Kleva, Director of University Health Services to lobby for better insurance coverage and hotter family mndical earn. Wn are also revising and hoping to receive official approval for a nwdieal leave policy." 
This initiative will also indudo a survey of married graduate stu­dents to determine tho insurance coverage of grad uatn students with spouses and families. 
"I hope to regularly meet with Anne Kleva to discuss rnlevant issues, and what senms to me to be disturbing patterns of growing costs and reduced bonel"its," Michael DeGruccio said in a report of the llealih Care Committen. 
The Union also plans to send members to the Legislation Action Day of NAGPS on . 
Sept. 21. Heather Eisler of the Publicity and Procedures commit­tee plans to attend and represent the Notre Dame Graduate Student Union in lobbying for the Higher Education Affordability and Equity Aet (1-IEAEA). 
"I have been monitoring plans by The National Association for Graduate and Professional Students to lobby for a bill that would make stipends used for liv­ing expenses tax-exempt, among other positive edueation-relatnd reforms," Schieberle said in the President's Rnport. 
Contact Maggie Hyde at mhydel@nd.edu · 
the 
* AcoustiCaft 

presents 

Thursday, Sept. 8th 
Lafortune Basement 1 0 pm -Midnight 
Performers 
10:00--l 0:20: Ryan Martin l 0:20-l 0:40: Mark Baldwin 
& Matt Hogancamp l 0:40-l l :00: Peter Biava 1 l :00-l l :20: Patrick Noble 
& Juan Pablo Garcia l l :20-1 l :30: Dave Ladao l l :30-l l :40: Tim Schwartz 1 1 :40-1 2:00: Robbie Hazen 
brought to you by the student union board. SUB.ND._J:DU 


page 4 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, September 8, 2005 

Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
Jeff Rea said. "Both [University President Emeritus] Father [Edward] Malloy and now Father Jenkins have done great things to 
reach out to us. And there are tremen­dous economic ben­efit<>." 
Ted Foti, senior vice president at Memorial Health System and co-chair of the community relations advisory group that organ­ized the event, described the rela­tionship as "one of a kind." 
"We are two sides of the same coin," Foti said. "We will continue to help each other." 
While Jenkins did not go into any specific goals, he emphasized the need to further strengthen community rela­tions. 
"What we have to 
"What we have to
do first is develop a familiarity with good, sound rela­do first is develop him," Foti said. tionship with the "We've had a great
a good, sound 
community," relationship with
relationship with 
Jenkins said. "Like the University in with any neighbor, the community." past years, and we we have to work to want to make sure make this a won­that continues."
Father Jenkins 
derful community. Those who had

University President 
That's the overarch­ing goal." 
South Bend mayor Stephen Luecke said he was "just delighted that Notre Dame is a real partner member of the neighborhood." 
He mentioned discussions with the University regarding MetroNet, a fiber optic network running through the community to broadband capacity, and a pro­posal for a new research park on Edison, "something which could provide opportunities for graduate 



Coffee 
continued from page 1 
Dame gets a new coach, and bring it back out when the sea­son begins," commented Jenny Landry, assistant manager of the cafe. 
According to the cafe, a hint of Irish cream, rich chocolate and flavorful coffee are the ingredients to making the per­fect mocha and the perfect coach. · 
The invention was created by Christina Pier, who is in charge of marketing, advertising and other promotions for the South Bend Chocolate Cafe. In addi­tion, Vance reports that the mocha goes well with a "piece of chocolate or Danish" from the cafe. 
"I think it's a cool idea to sell this mocha because it supports the team and Coach Weis," said sophomore Christina Marzo. "I hope that 'Winning Weis' actu­ally holds true for the rest of the season." 
Sophomore Meghan Kelly said she appreciated the new con­coction. 
"I think it's nice that they're integrating Weis into the Chocolate Cafe," Kelly said. "It's nice that he's been accepted as a part of the South Bend com­munity." 
Similar responses came from students who tasted the "Winning Weis Mocha" at the Chocolate Cafe. 
Freshman, Michael Huang, who tried the mocha, described it enthusiastically. 
"The mocha isn't too sweet and just right," Huang said. 
"We are two sides ofthe same coin." 
Ted Foti senior vice president, Memorial Health System 
students." 
Jenkins also referred to the research park in his speech, call­ing it "a dimension of what we might do to connect with the local community." 
Robinson Community Learning Center director Jay Caponigro said he appreciated the interac­
Many community members met Jenkins for the first time at the reception, which Foti said meant the event was "overdue." 
"After Father Jenkins was 
appointed by the Board, we didn't know him and we couldn't find any­body who had 
their first conver­
sation with Jenkins 
Wednesday, like Rea, came away with positive impressions. 
"One thing I gathered from talk­ing to him was how much he enjoys his job," Rea said. "You spend your life searching for something you love to do, so that's great." 
Contact Maddie Hanna at Mhannal@nd.edu 
Vance reports that the mocha "does well" at the downtown 
cafe and hopes to  see more  
wins  for  Weis  in  the  near  
future.  

The Chocolate Cafe is located 
·in downtown South Bend on 122 South Michigan next to the College Football Hall of Fame. 
Contact Peter Devine at Peter.A.Devine.18@nd.edu 
tion with Jenkins. 
"Father Jenkins has been really supportive of what we're doing, so it's great for people to know that," Caponigro said. "He came down [to Robinson], met with our staff and reaffirmed the important role Robinson plays for the University." 

Observer Junior Dan Ward, right, hands his Notre Dame I.D. to Huddle employee junior Matthew Pavlov to pay using flex points. The Flex 14 meal plan allows students 280 flex points each semes-
Flex 
. continued from page 1 
and offer variety from the din­ing hall," sophomore Amanda Deckelman said. 
The "Flex 14" plan provides students with 14 meals a week and an allowance of flex points. As the default meal plan for all residential students approximately 96 percent of students on campus choose the "Flex 14" plan over the 21­meal plan, according to Dave Prentowski Director of Food Services. 
The extra 20 points were added to the meal plan because students complained that all of the allotted 260 points were consumed before the end of the semester, Prentowski said. 
In order to answer student complaints, the Notre Dame Student Senate discussed last spring the possibility of creat­ing a new "Flex-10" plan that would give students only 10 meals a week, but grant stu­dents a greater amount of flex points. 
The Senate was unable to pass the movement for several reasons including objections from the dining halls that said the increased flex points would be too expensive and some services of the dining hall might have to be cut to cover the extra cost. 
"A 10 meal plan was not adopted for a number of rea­sons ... [For one], The Office of Student Affairs interest in encouraging community dining hall based meals as much as possible," Prentowski said. 
"I didn't even know about it but it was a pleasant surprise. I feel like my schedule is busier and I end up using more points than in previous years," said junior Ashley Kelly. 
While it is true that the stu­dents have more nominal flex 
points,  the  value  of those  
points  decreased  slightly,  
Prentowski said.  

"It should be noted that Notre Dame increases the Flex portion of the meal plan each year to assure that the stu­dents do not lose purchasing power due to inflationary price increases," he said. "In fact, the increase, most years, is higher than general retail inflation and is related to the percentage of the increase of the cost of room and board." 
He could not say if the pur­chasing power of student's Flex points this year is greater than or less than last. 
While the dining halls were wary of the proposed new increased flex point meal plan, other Food Service establish­
ments such as Reekers, and the Huddle were much more 
accepting. 
Prentowski conceded that more flex points might produce more revenue but said it could hurt service. 
"While the campus retail operations may generate more revenue from added flex dol­lars in the system the addition-· al traffic may, at times, over tax the operation to the point of insufficient and slow serv­ice," Prentowski said, citing the long lines as Subway as an example. 
Along with the arrival of more flex points, there are now more venues on campus accepting the points as a form of payment. Starting this fall, the Bookstore Coffee Shop began accepting flex points. 
Though the number of flex points has increased, some stu­dents still wish there were more. 
"There are enough to make a student have to learn to make decisions about spending. They could give me 500 points and I'd find a way to spend them but with a more limited supply, you beGome more selective in your purchases," junior Ashley Kelly said. 
Contact Kathy Lee at klee7@nd.edu 

w~ When it:'s t:he prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an excltlng1-yr Job In the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by November 4, 2005. 
ln1erasted? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of May, 2005) an ND degree? No east-Asia experience? For more information. contact Mrs. Nancy O'Connor(nmee@nd.edu) 







ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 8, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. hostage freed after 10 months 
BA<;III>A.I>-Tlw U.S. military, acting on a tip, raided an isolat11d farmhouse outside the eapital Wndrwsday and reseued an A.nwrican businessman held hostage for I 0 months. The kidnappers, who had knptthnir capt.ivt~ bound and gagged, eseapnd without a gunhal.lln. 
Tlw rescue <~anw on a day that saw two deadly bombings around the soutlwrn dty of Basra, ftwling fears llw bloody insurgeney was taking dPPpPr root outside Sunni-domi­natPd terTitory. A. roadsidn bomb killed four A.nwriran sneurity agents. And an Interior Ministry of!idal said I h people worn killed and 21 W«W«~ injured in a ear bombing at a n~staurant in a central marknl. 
Hoy Hallums, 57. was "in good condition and is receiving nwdieal earn," a military slatmnnnt said aflnr U.S. forees freed him and an unidnntif'ind Iraqi from the farm­house I!i miles south of Baghdad. 
Iran offer of oil rejected by U.S. 
TI·:IIHA.N -Iran olliwml to send the United Stutes 20 million barrnls of erudn oil in llw after­math of llurrimnn Katrina if Washington waived trade sanctions, but a State Department ollidal said Wndrwsday that olli~r was rnjected. 
In a gesturP that mirrors A.mnri<:an aid oilers aft«~r a devastating 200:~ earthquake in Iran, 'ldmm's envoy to the Organization of Pntrolourn l·:xporling Countries said his govnrnrnnnt would ship up to 20 million barn~ls of oil. state radio n~portml late Tuesday. . 
"If U.S. sanctions arn lillml. lnu1 L<> prnparnd to s«>nd that quantity of oil to A.rnnrica," the radio quoted llossnin Kazmnpour as saying. 
But in Washington, the Stat«~ Department's nxPculivn secretary. Ilarry K. Thomas .Jr., said tlw ofli~r W1L'> n~ed.ed ht~ettUSO it W1L'i conditional. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
California passes gay marrias;!e bill 
SA.CHA.MENTO, Calif. -Tlw CaTifornia l.ngislature on Tuesday bneame the first leg­islative body in tlw country to approve a bill allowing same-sex marriages, but the meas­ure faens an uncertain future with Gov. Arnold Sehwarznnnggt1r. 
There wnrn loud ehenrs by gay-rights activists in the Assembly gallery as lawmak­nrs voted 41-:~!i to approve the bill and send it to the governor. The Assembly had twiee defnatml similar legislation. 
A. spokeswoman for the Hepublican gover­nor said Schwarzenngger believes the issue should be decided by the courts, not by his signature on lngislation. A state appellate court is considering appeals of a lower eourt ruling that ovnrturned California laws banning rneognition of gay marriages." 
lin will uphold whatever thn court decides," Sehwarzenegger spokeswoman Margita Thompson said. 
Tropical storm heads to Florida 
.JACKSONVILLE BEA.CII. Fla. -Brisk wind and fim:nful rain from Tropical Storm Ophelia rnovml through this beaehside community Wmlnnsday, sending tourists scurrying inland and driving surfi1rs out of the churning Atlantic. 
Thn tropical dnpression off the coast strengthened into a tropical storm early Wndnt~sday and could bring strong winds and lwavy rain to central and northern Florida over the next few days. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Tax amnesty to begin next week 
INI>IA.NA.POLJS -Those dnlinquent on Indiana taxes take note: The state will start a 60-day graee period beginning m~xt wenk that will allow you to pay up without penal­tins, interest or collection fees. 
But Department of Hnvenue officials arn warning those who do not eome dean hetwnen Sept. 15 and Nov. 15 that they will f;u:e doubln penalties and more aggressive collnetion nfforts. And there are no plans for another amnesty period in tho future. 
"It was nnaeted as a one-timn event not to be repeated," HtW!mue Commissioner .John Eckart said Wndnesday. 
Rehnquist given final farewell 
President, justices lead mourners in honoring life, service of Chief Justice 
Associated Press 

WA.SIIINGTON-Chin!' 
.Justien William II. 
Hehnquist was buried 
Wedrwsday as President 
Bush lnd the nation in bid­
ding farewell to thn man 
who ordwstrated a dramat­
ic statns rights power shift 
in a third of a century on 
the Suprnme Court and set­
tled the acrimonious 2000 
election in Bush's favor. 
With more laughs than tears, family and friends spoke poignantly of Hehnquist's final days ­when he cracked jokes in the face of death -and proudly of the imprint of his :n years on the high court. 
"We remember the integrity and the sense of duty that he brought to evnry task before him," Bush told tho funeral audi­nnce during a two-hour service at historic St. Matthew's Cathedral. Hehnquist was a steady, guiding presence on the eourt, Bush said of the nation's 16th chief justice who died last Saturday at 
HO. 

The serviee drew Washington's pownr elite, including the eight Supreme Court justices and John Hoberts, a former Hehnquist law derk whom Bush has named to succeed him. 
Hchnquist, a veteran of the Army Air Forens in World War II, was buried in a private ceremony in Arlington National Cemetery in a grave not far from those of several other justices. Ilis headstone was not yet engraved. From the gravn site, where his wife was buried in 1991, the Capitol is visible. 
Despite battling thyroid cancer, Rehnquist managed to attend Bush's second inauguration in January ­a gesture the president recalled with appreciation. "Many will never forget the sight of this man, weakened by illness, rise to his fu'll height and say in a strong voiee, 'Haise your right hand, Mr. President, and repeat after me,"' Bush ehief. lie usually won," said said. Justice Sandra Day 

The ehief justice, a solid O'Connor, who dated conservative, was leader of Hehnquist when both worn the "Rehnquist five" who in law school together in the often favored states rights 1950s. "I think the chief bet over federal government he could live out another power, and in a bitter 5-4 term despite his illness. lie vote handed Bush the 2000 lost that bet, as did all of us, election. There was only but he won all the prizes for passing mention of that a life well lived." during the service, as well · Comparing Rehnquist to as his duties presiding over an expert horse rider, President Clinton's O'Connor said, "He guided impeachmnnt trial in 1999. us with loose reins and used 
Instead, friends and fami­the spurs only randy." lie ly talked about his penchant was, she added. "eoura­for wagers, jokes, sports, gnous at the end of his life geography, history, tennis, just as he was throughout and competition of any type. his life," even joking with 
"If you valued your doctors in a Jinal visit to the money, you would be care­hospital. ful about betting with the The service, scripted in part by the chief justice before his death. had a light touch. A. granddaughter talked about learning poker tips from him. llis son said his dad "eould forgive almost anything in a person exeept being humorless." 
"No one smelled morn roses than my dad," .lames Rehnquist told the funeral audienee. 
Cardinal Theodore McCarrick, in a wekornn to those assembled in the Homan Catholic chureh, praised Hehnquist as a "lov­ing father and husband, an outstanding legal seholar, a tireless champion of life and a true lover of' the law: in every sense, a great American." 
GAZA.STRIP 

Palestinian security chief killed 
Associated Press 

GA.ZA. CITY, Gaza Strip Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas vownd to hunt down the killers of a powerful former security chief whose gangland-style slaying Wednesday laid bare Gaza's raging power struggles just days before Israel hands over control of the coastal tnrritory. 
In a brazen challenge to Abbas, a shadowy militant group claimed responsibility for killing Moussa A.rafat, cousin of the late Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat, in a burst of gunJire. 
Adding to the tension, the Israeli military said the vital Hafah crossing point between Gaza and Egypt would be elosed Thursday until further notiee as part of Israel's Gaza pull­out, which could be completed as early as Monday. 
A. bout 100 masked militants stormed Moussa Ararat's heavily guarded home in an upscale Gaza City neighborhood early Wednesday, sparking a 30-minute gunbattle with dozens of his bodyguards. The assailants burst into the home, dragged out Arafat in his pajamas and gunned him down in the dusty street. 
A.rafat's oldest son, Manhal, a sen­ior security commander, was kid­napped by the gunmen. Oflicials said np,gotiations, broknred by Egyptian security ol'licials, wern under way to sneure his release. 
The killing raised nnw qunstions about the Palestinian Authority's ability to take control of (;itza aftPr lsranl completes its pullout next week. 
It oeeurred a block from the !wad­quarters of the Palestinian Preventive Security Service, whieh failed to respond, and 400 yards from Abbas' Gaza residnnee, whnrn he was spending the night. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Thursday, September 8, 2005 


specials for certain nights of "It's been a little rough," the week to help students get Ricky said. "But what hap­
CJ's 
reacquainted with the pub. pened has happened and we continued from page 1 "In the beginning we'll be just have to move forward running a lot of drink spe­and do the best we can with destroyed from the accident. cials," Ricky said. "Tuesday what we have available ­
"A lot of people drove by night is student appreciation until business picks up." and it didn't look like a lot of night -with student IDs we'll Bringing back old regulars damage but we had very, take a dollar off any burgers shouldn't pose a problem. very extensive damage," on the menu and Wednesday The pub has attracted Judy Medick said. night is going to be margari­famous Domers since its 
Throughout the repair and ta night." inception in 1984. It's a renovation project the own­Senior Andrew Harkins, favorite of television person­ers have also had to combat who went to CJ's when he ality Regis Philbin, athletic rumors circulating Notre was a sophomore, plans to director Kevin White and Dame websites. visit once it reopens. office of student affairs pres­
"There were lots of rumors "I liked CJ's a lot, the food ident Bill Kirk, Ricky said. on NDnation -the bad ones was really good," Harkins ''I'm delighted that it's being that Ricky is selling, said. "It was kind of dirty but reopening," Kirk said. the hospital is buying the that's part of its charm. I am "They've got great cheese­property, they are retiring in excited that it's opening." burgers. I'm looking forward Aruba," Ricky Medick said. Since the accident, Ricky to it." "But those aren't true. We're and his siblings have been here for the long haul." trying to cope without their Contact Mary Kate Malone at 
The owners are planning chief source of income. Mmalone3@nd.edu 
···············································~ 
~ University Resources : for Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Students 

: C OI>,U41TT I!:£ ON GAY 4HII;l '-l:illfdAN • 5Tvr:n::Nt' N~re:o::s 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs 
(Confidential information, education, and resources) 
Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student members (see web site for student contact info.) 
Office of Campus Ministry 
(Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students and their friends; pertinent library resources in 304 Co-Mo; confidential discussion and support) 
Contact: Fr. Dick Warner, C.S.C., at 1-9704 
University Cotmseling Center 
(Individual counseling) Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu • 
For more infonnation, check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ •••••••••
• 
Ad 
continued from page 1 
Information, has been involved for several years in creating video images for Notre Dame. 
"[The videos] show what Notre Dame is, what it strives to be and how it is different from 
The initial feedback to the Office of News and Information about the spot has been limited so far, Storin said. 
"Some people with a bad experience with admissions found the video personally dis­turbing," Storin said. 
Their interpretation is that you must pray in order to get into the University, he said. 
other universi­ties," Storin said. 
Julie Flory, the assistant direc­tor at the Office of News and Information, was involved in the production of the video. Her office worked with an agency in Chicago to design a concept, to cast the actress and to edit the footage. The actual film­ing of the spot took place in New Jersey. 
"We were look­ing for some­thing to resonate with viewers, to create a lasting impression and 
"We were looking for something to resonate with viewers. to create a lasting impression and show that Notre Dame is a serious place for learning and faith." 
Julie Flory Assistant director, Office of News and Information 
Jenny Ehright, a Notre Dame sopho­more, says that the commercial was "maybe a little overdone, but a lot of people can relate to waiting for a response from col­lege." 
Storin said he hopes people understand the ad shows the faith­based aspect of Notre Dame. 
"We are a univer­sity that attracts young people of faith," Storin said. 
Flory remarked on the difficulty of bottling a message about the University in a 30 second ad. 
"It's hard to craft 

show that Notre Dame is a seri­ous place for learning and faith," Flory said. 
Past spots have stressed the close-knit nature of the Notre Dame family, the devotion of students to the school, or focused on the fame and suc­cess of alumni. Storin says that the typical Division I school will have an ad that shows "famous alums, lab beakers, people in white coats. They sound like Oxford when they do their spot." 
This year, the University wanted to address the unique­ness of Notre Dame and its Catholic character in order to be distinctive from other uni­versities. 
a message so perfect that no one can dislike it," Flory said. 
Storin said he hopes viewers will focus on the words "a high­er education," which appear at the end of the spot. 
"The kind of person attracted to Notre Dame is a person who believes in prayer," said Storin. 
This spot will be played throughout the year during tel­evised Notre Dame sports. It can also be viewed in both the normal 30 second version and an extended 60 second version at mms:l/streaming.nd.edu/can­dle60.wmv. 
Contact Kaidynn Riely at Kaidynn.M.Riely.2@nd.edu 
TI··-IE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Thursday, September 8, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,633.50 +44.26 
}ones.~. 
Upf Same: Down: Composite Volume 
2,390  151  •  1,933,568,070  
AMID( NASDAQ NYSE  1,69o.stf ;::,:r:·utiiJII 2 172.03 +5.17 ··7:625:24"·rc~£IJII:~J  
S&PSOO  1,236.36  +2.97  

NIKKEl(TokyO} .. ""'"l!:!iS~7&},...!1 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,365.90 +6.70 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$CAIN I PRICE 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +1.10 +0.20 18.40 NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) +0.18 +0.07 39.41 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.56 -0.15 26.85 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.16 -0.04 25.66 APPLE COMPUTER (AAPL) -0.25 -0.12 48.68 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.49 +0.65 44.19 I 0-YEAR NOTE + 1.30 +0.53 41.38 5-YEAR NOTE +1.21 +0.47 39.36 3-MONTH BILL -0.15 -0.05 34.05 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.59 64.37 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) +0.40 449.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.63 79.95 
Excha Rates 

YEN I I 0.2950 EURO 0.8061 POUND 0.5453 CANADIAN$ 1.1889 
IN BRIEF 
Evacuees to receive debit cards 
Wi\SIIINGTON -The federal government plans to hand out debit cards worth $2,000 nach to families displaced by Hurricane Katrina. 
Homeland Security Department Secretary Michael Chertol'f', under lire for his agency's response to the disaster, held a eonference call with governors of states with evacuees and deseribed the plan. While many details remained to bn worked out, the plan was to quickly begin distributing the cards, starting with people in major evacuation centers such as the llouston Ac;;trodome. 
Michael Brown, the head of the Federal Emergency Management Agency which is administering the novel card program, said it is aimed at those with the most pressing nends. 
"The eoneept is to get them some cash in hand whieh allows them, empowers them, to make their own dncisions about what do they need to have to start rebuilding," Brown said. 
Hepublican Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney, who participated in the conference call, said tho cards will be oll'ered "to people in shelters as well as people who are not in shelters but who have evacuated the area and need help." lie said the hope is the cards will encourage people to leave shelters voluntarily. 
Harry Potter downloads available 
NI·:W YOHK -Break out your iPods: Harry Potter is going digital. 
.l.K. Howling, once publishing's greatest hold­out against the computer age, has made all six Potter novels available fc1r audio downloads. In a message posted Wednesday on her Web site, Howling said she was coneerned about online piracy, included bootleg editions for which the original tnxt was altnrcd. 
"Many !larry Potter fans have been keen for digital accnss for a while, but the deeiding factor li1r nw in authorizing this new version is that it will hnlp eombat the growing incidents of piracy in this ama," Howling wrote: 
"Thorn havn been a number of incidents wlwro f"ans havn stumblnd upon unauthorized filns b1~1inving thorn to bn gnnuine and, quite apart f"rom thn l"aet that they are illegal, the I larry Potter mntnnt of those can bear very little rnsmnblaneo to anything I've ever written!" 
Economic assessment looks bleak 
Higher energy prices, slow growth, job losses to ensue, says Budget Office 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON Hurricane Katrina will have a greater economic impact than previous killer storms, though the energy price spikes, slow­er growth and job losses will not be enough to push the eountry into a reces­sion. 
That's the view of the Congressional Budget Office • which on Wednesday provided the government's first assess­ment of the economic impact from the country's worst natural disaster. 
The CBO predicted the aftermath of Katrina would see job losses of 400,000 in coming months, a reduetion in growth of as much as a full percentage point in the second half' of this year and that September gas prices will average about 40 percent higher than before the storm. 
These impacts were described as "significant but not overwhelming." Still. the CBO cautioned that the economy could suffer a more serious blow if' energy supply dis­ruptions along the Gulf Coast last longer than expected. 
"Last week, it appeared that larger economic dis­ruptions might occur, but despite continued uncer­tainty, progress in open­That peak could be near, spending in other areas Katrina levels. ing refineries and restart­given that the average by around $38 billion at Before the hurricann, ing pipelines now makes retail price of regular an annualized rate, CBO private economists were those larger impacts less unleaded gasoline climbed estimated. forecasting growth in the likely," CBO Director by 46 cents last week to CBO said overall eco­second half would come in Douglas Holtz-Eakin $3.07 per gallon, 34 per­nomic growth, as meas­between 3 percent and 4 wrote in a letter to Senate cent above the July ured by the gross domes­percent following growth Majority Leader Bill Frist, nationwide average. tic produet, eould be of 3.6 percent in the first R-Tenn., and other con­The spurt in the cost of reduced by between 0.5 half of this year. gressional leaders. gasoline will reduce over­percentage point and a There have been some 
The CBO gave a ball­all economic growth by full percentage point for promising signs on the park estimate that gaso­0.4 percent in the current the second half of this energy front in recent line prices will peak in July-September quarter year but this downshift in days with crude oil prices September at about 40 and by 0.9 percent in the growth should be tempo­dropping as more Gulf percent higher than levels October-December period rary as long as gasoline Coast production in effect in midsummer. as consumers cut back on prices retreat to pre-resumes. 

Ford, Toyota announce major recalls 
plaints that a rod linking the steering Ford said its inquiry found brake
Associated Press 

wheel and the wheels could fracture fluid could leak through the cruise 
WASHINGTON -Ford and Toyota, when the steering wheel is turned control's deactivation switch into the two of the world's largest automak­while the vehicle is stopped. The system's electrical components, lead­ers, on Wednesday recalled nearly 5 affected vehicles include the 1990-ing to potential corrosion. That could million pickup trucks and sport utili­1995 4Runner SUV, 1989-1995 truck lead to a buildup of electrieal current ty vehicles in separate moves to 4WD and 1993-1998 T-100 pickup. that could cause overheating and a respond to concerns of engine fires In the Ford case, NHTSA said lire. and problems with the power-steer­Wednesday it was reviewing 1,170 Owners will be notified by mail ing system. allegations of engine fires related to immediately. Dealers will install a 
The recall by Ford Motor Co., the the vehicles and would continue a fused wiring harness to act as a cir­fifth-largest auto industry recall in probe launched earlier this year. cuit breaker in the system. The com­
U.S. history, involved 3.8 million. There have been allegations of three pany said the harness would cut off pickups and SUVs from the 1994-deaths in cases cited in news reports electrical current to the switch if the 2002 model years, including the top­or lawsuits in Iowa, Georgia and current increases. selling F -150 pickup. Arkansas. In January, Ford recallnd nearly 
The National Highway Traffic Ford's recall includes the 1994-800,000 vehicles from the 2000 Safety Administration and Ford have 2002 F-150, 1997-2002 Ford model year because of concerns over been investigating complaints of Expedition, 1998-2002 Lincoln engine fires. engine fires linked to the cruise con­Navigator and 1994-1996 Ford "We have a solution that fixes tho trol switch system. Bronco equipped with factory­problem and we're confident that 
Toyota Motor Co., meanwhile, installed speed control. It covers this is going to bo the right rmnedy," recalled 978,000 sport utility vehi­most of the vehicles being evaluated said Ford spokeswoman Kristen cles and pickup trucks over com-by NHTSA. Kinley. 
page 8 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 8, 2005 
MEXICO 

Ship delivers supplies to devastated regions 
Welcomed gesture seen largely as symbolic 
Associated Press 

NUEVO LAHEDO A Mexican ship laden with hurri­cane relief supplies anchored off Mississippi Wednesday night, while an aid-bearing Mexican army convoy reached the U.S. border in a journey marking the first time its military has aided the United States. 
The Papaloapan, a navy ves­sel, arrived in U.S. waters fol­lowing its voyage from the Gulf coast port of Tampico and began unloading rescue equip­ment by helicopter, the Mexican navy's press oflice said. 
Meanwhile, a "This is just an act ed the funeral of convoy of 45 a Mexican-born
ofsolidarity between 
vehicles and 196 Marine killed in
two people who are
soldiers arrived Iraq. They at the border city brothers." objected to the of Nuevo Laredo nonworking, cer­emonial rifles
W e d n e s d a Y Ruben Aguilar evening. It was to carried by two 
c r 0 s s in t 0 u.s. Presidential spokesman Marines who neers carrying water treatment plants, mobile kitchens, food and blankets. 
"This is just an act of solidari­ty between two peoples who are brothers," said Fox's spokesman, Huben Aguilar. 
Army press office employee Francisco Aguilar said he did not have details of the convoy's precise location. It originally was scheduled to arrive in Houston to provide food for evacuees, but apparently had been rerouted to Dallas. 
All of the convoy's partici­pants will be unarmed. In July 
2004, Mexican 
troops interrupt­
territory early Thursday, Gen. Francisco Ortiz Valadez told reporters as his men refueled at a local gas sta­tion. 
He said the troops would help refugee operations in San Antonio, Texas. 
"Our mission is to give aid to the civilian population affected by the disaster," Ortiz said. 
Federal police briefly blocked the highway in both directions as the convoy arrived at the gasoline station. 
Hadio talk shows and newspa­pers in Mexico buzzed with excitement over news that this country, long on the receiving end of U.S. disaster relief, was sending a hurricane aid convoy north. 
The convoy represents the first Mexican military unit to operate on U.S. soil since 1846, when Mexican troops briefly marched into Texas, which had separated from Mexico and joined the United States. 
It included military special­ists, doctors, nurses an{} engi­
came from the United States for the ceremony. 
Mexico later apologized but said it has an obligation to enforce a ban on foreign troops carrying weapons in its territo­ry. 
The convoy has "a very high symbolic content," said Javier Oliva, a political scientist at Mexico's National Autonomous University. 'This is a very sensi­tive subject, for historic and political reasons." 
Large Mexican flags were taped to many of the 35 olive­green Mexican Army trucks and tractor trailers as they rumbled northward toward the border Wednesday. 
The convoy includes two mobile kitchens that can feed 7,000 people a day, three flatbed trucks carrying mobile water-treatment plants and 15 trailers of bottled water, blan­kets and applesauce. The 195 Mexicans taking part include military engineers, doctors and nurses. 

$-----------:;;[~~;---------------:
: 2 oUFRF •r;;:um Soff Cloth !
0 BEST WASH 
• 

• 
Polish-n-Sealer : Wax Applied : 

• 2-Step Underbody 
I l Protectant 

J 

52694 State Road 933 1 
• Spot-Free South Bend, Indiana 46637 ! 
Just 2 miles north of Notre Dame on U.S. 31 1
Rinse Offer good at the South Bend location only ~ 
·~~--~-~--~~~--~~------~~---~-~~~d 


Hope you didn't get caught with your pants around your ankles on your 21st! 
From your friends 
LONDON 

Hurricane claims foreign lives 
Many European citizens remain missing in ravaged New Orleans 
Associated Press 

LONDON -Three weeks have passed since Tom Noone last heard from his 51-year-old brother, Mike, who lived near New Orleans. 
"As each day goes by, it's just harder and harder. I've got to make every effort I can to try and find him," Noone told The Associated Press from his home in Abingdon, central England. 
Britain and other countries are working to account for their citizens who are missing in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. For some relatives, the search has ended happily as those once stranded begin returning home. 
Mike Noone, a mechanical engineer for Lockheed Martin Corp., has lived in Louisiana for 28 years. llis three children -Patrick, 24, Hyan 20, and Marion, 16 -also have not been in touch, Tom Noone said. 
The level of anxiety around the world is measured on a­Web site for the Geneva-based international Hed Cross ­http://www.familylinks.icrc.or/k atrina -which lists more than 117,000 names of people who haven't been located. 
Several hundred names have been deleted as people have been found, said spokesman Florian Westphal. 
Britain's list of 96 people is the largest number confirmed by a European government. Poland says it has yet to account for 22 citizens, but France, Germany, Hussia and Italy are among the nations which decline to say how many of their people are missing. 
Russia has confirmed contact with 112 citizens through its consulate in Houston, and Germany says it tracked down 70 people known to be in the region. Denmark's Foreign Ministry said Wednesday it had located the lone Dane who had not been accounted for. 
None of the governments has confirmed any deaths of citi­zens. 
At least five Australians remain unaccounted for, including 30-year-old Ashley McDonald, whose credit ww.nola.com. One message tells his father: "There is a plane ticket and a room ready if you need it." 
There have been joyful homecoming scenes in Europe this week. 
Christine Sabadello lost notes, an outline and books she was using for her doctoral dis­sertation at the University of New Orleans. But she told the AP she was "just happy to be alive" after returning home to Austria. 
She said she rented a mini­
van as the storm 
approached and 
cards and dri­evacuated with
"''ve got to make
ver's license some friends. "We
every effort I can to
were found in a just thought we'd hotel in Baton try and find him." spend a nice Rouge. U.S. and weekend in Australian Texas," she said. 
Tom Noone

authorities are They got as far
victim's brother

searching for as Alexandria, 
him, Australia's Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said. 

South Africa says three of its citizens are not accounted for. 
Like Noone, Andrew Mcinnes of Devizes, England, is relying mainly on the Internet in hopes of tracking his 68-year-old father David. 
"We had a falling out, and haven't had contact for about six years, but I really wanted to get in touch to make sure he was OK," Mcinnes told The Associated Press. He believes his father was living in New Orleans. 
He said he posted a message on the Web site of the American Red Cross and another on the New Orleans­based Web site http://w-La., and took shel­
ter with the par­ents of a fellow student. "People showed up at the house and brought food and money," Sabadello said. "We were invited over for dinner ­it was amazing." 
Ten Russian college students returned to a tearful welcome in Moscow on Wednesday. They had been stranded in a second-floor apartment in New Orleans for three days before being evacuated by helicopter and sent first to San Antonio, then to Atlanta. 
"We swam on mattresses across the street to a bridge four days later and there we were rescued by a military hel­icopter," said Vitaly Nikiforov, as his mother embraced him. 
Thursday, September 8, 2005 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
FRANCE 
Chirac's health problems unclear 
French President missed Cabinet meeting due to 'vascular accident' 
Associated Press 
PAHIS -President Jaeques Chirac skipped a weekly Cabinet meeting Wednesday for the first time sincn taking oflice in 1995, a'i authorities kept France in sus­pnnse for a fifth full day about what exactly ails the hospitalized 72-ynar-old lnadnr. 
Officials have cryptically rnforrnd to Chirac's illness as "a small vascular acci­dent" that afl'eeted 
the prnsidont, adrnittnd to Val de c;racn military hos­pital Friday night, as active and deeply involved in the all'airs of statn. 
Chirac met for about an hour with Primo Minister Dominiqun de Villcpin ahead of tho Cabinet mooting -held, unusually, at the premier's oflke and presided over by Villepin. 
Oflidals took a rea<;suring tone about the president's condition. The government spokesman, .lnan-Francois Cope, said Chirae was in "very good form" and would be out of the hospital by week's end, a<> expected. Officials have not specified which eye was affncted. 
lt was still unclear whether Chirac would make his planned trip to New York on Sept. 13-15 for a U.N. summit. Cope said scheduling details would be clari­fied when Chirac is released. 
Senate President Christian Poncelet, the oflieial who would 
replace Chirac if he could not carry out his functions, said he had "not for one second" imagined he might need to step in. 
Chirac is "going to get back on his horse, to use the customary expres­sion, and then take charge again," Poncelet told France-Info radio. 
The Freneh pres­ident, like other former chiefs of state, has often kept quiet about 

details of his health. Two years ago, Chirac reportedly dressed down a former minister who hint­ed publicly that he wore a hearing aid. 
For years, Socialist President Francois Mitterrand covered up the prostate cancer that eventual­ly killed him in 1996, the year after he left office. Former conser­vative President Georges Pompidou died in oflice in 1974 without ever revealing he had ter­minal cancer. 
With memories of those deaths strong, the media has accused the government of guarding details of Chirac's condition like a state secret. However, many politicians argue that France's law on med­ical secrecy justifies guarding such information. 
If authorities are telling the truth and Chirac has a minor problem -a retinal hemorrhage -the main question is why is he still hospitalized, said Dr. Stephan A Mayer, associate professor of neurology and neurosurgery at Columbia University Medical Center in New York. 
"One possibility is the VIP syn­drome," Mayer said. "VIPs, heads of state, sometimes they get over­treated, to their detriment. They don't get one doctor, they get 17." 
Other possibilities "are dieier," Mayer said. For example, ifChirac had a brain aneurism -a form of stroke -he likely had coils insert­ed to prevent further bleeding, and oflicials are simply keeping quiet about it. 
Monday's update said Chirac had a small-sized hematoma, or buildup of blood, with an "isolated and limited vision problem." Authorities have never clarified where exactly the bleeding occurred, although most French media have concluded it was in his brain. 
"If he's had a hemorrhage in the brain, he's had a stroke," said Dr. Philip Steig, neurosurgeon in chief at New York Presbyterian Hospital and president of the Society of University Neurosurgeons. 
Chirac has not said whether he will seek a third term in 2007. 

Castle~oiot 
A.PARTI\JIENTS 
180 Il Cleveland R9ad • South Bend, Indiana 46637 
Carner or Cleveland and Ironwood Road 
Phone (574) 272-8110 • Toll Free (888) 642-6110 www.cppj.com 
• Ru.~iness Center 
• rrec Tanning Be<f 
• 
Racquet Ball 

• 
Indoor/Outdoor Tennis & .? Basketball 


• Stvirnming 
• 
Exercise Room 

• 
JVhirlpool & Sauna 

• 
Short-Term Leasing Options 


_.r .~:.. 

~ .-~~:..--·,...:..··.·,. ~· ' ..... ;:....·..;:•. ~~··· .. ,.. _";·..~. ·:."!·:·" ~ •.•.· ·~.~~ }"·...~--:.-.~ .. 
:~:wet~ome.ToYo:u.'i·; castle•.~ -. .;;.'····:··.cto~e•·t.»~£,;.e... ing· :·:·· :'.· · ·...···.-:·> J:ar· Fr~na Prclinaw:-Y.. ·-<-: 
~. ·-.. ~·~.·.· ; . . ,."~: .· ; .... ·: ; 
• ' ....., ·--·-· ..... '
T~ 

• 1-Z BEDROOMS{2 BEDROOMS Wrni LOFT & PENS 
• MONTHLY EXECLITIVE SUITES 

ENGLAND 

Europe fearful of imminent attack 
Continent not unified on terrorist dealings 
Associated Press 
LONDON -The moments are carved in collective memo­ry: Smoke billowing from the Twin Towers. The charred husk of a London double­decker bus. Bombed out com­muter trains in Madrid. The convicted Muslim assassin of a Dutch filmmaker coldly telling the victim's family in court: "I don't feel your pain." 
But if the language and iconography of terror haunt us in our shared fears, it does not necessarily follow that the carnage has forged a common front. 
If Europeans were separat­ed from 9/11 by the Atlantic Ocean, Madrid (3/11 ), Amsterdam (11/2) and London (7/7) have awakened them to the reality of 21st century ter­rorism. The question most people are asking is not "will there be another one?" -but "who's next?" 

Yet the London attacks do not appear to have pushed Europeans closer to the United States or its govern­ment's view of the world. Many are, if anything, inclined to deride the Bush Administration's attitude as simplistic and belligerent, and to argue that the U.S.-led war in Iraq has provoked the Muslim world against the West. 
And among themselves, Europeans are divided over how to pro­ceed. 

''VIPs, heads of state, sometimes they get over-treated, to their detriment. They don't get one doctor, they get 
17." 

Dr. Stephan A. Mayer 
associate professor, 
Columbia University 
Unlike for 

"History separated 
Americans, has meaning only if who largely us a long time ago it results in a form rallied togeth­and it is hard for of social harmony," er and behind Gilles Keppel, a
even such a painful
their govern­professor at the 
case as terrorism
ment in the Institute of Political months after to bring us back Studies in Paris Sept. 11, wrote in a com­
together."
2001, the mentary in Le recent terror­Monde. "In this ism in Europe Carlos Sosa sense, the trauma has under­mechanical engineer of British society is but there arc important dis­tinctions, like the war in Iraq," said Enzo de Martino, a civil servant in Horne. 
Perhaps most keenly, terror­ism has brought urgency to an internal debate in Europe about how to handle the conti­nent's Muslim immigrant com­munities. 
The two main approaches have been France's activist secularism, which demands that newcomers assimilate to the French way of life, and the liberal multiculturalism of Britain and the Netherlands, which teaches that society is enriched when immigrants preserve their traditions. 
As the London attacks and the slaying of Dutch filmmak­er Then van Gogh suggested, the multicultural approach that can injnct vigor into a country's economic, soeial and artistic life can also lead to a kind of self-imposed ghettoiza­tion: Communities scaling themselves ofT from the tradi­tions and values of the host nation. 
Three of the four July 7 bombers grew up in insular Muslim communities in the north of England. Mohammed Bouyeri, the man convicted of stabbing Van Gogh in the chest on an Amsterdam street for making a film critir.al of Islamic practices, was born in Holland to Moroccan parents and was drawn into the Islamic radicalism that has 
been allowed to 
flourish there. 

"Multiculturalism his vision in one eye. With little to go on, doctors not involved in Chirae's trnatment suggest a range of possible problems from minor -a rup­tun~d blood vessel in a retina -to serious -a stroke. 
OfTieials of·thn presidential Elysee Palace have worked to portray 
scored differ­ences in polit­ical outlook, culture and secu­rity strategy. 
"I have the feeling that Europeans will never, ever manage to unite," said Carlos Sosa, a 51-year-old mechani­cal engineer in Madrid. "IIistory separated us a long time ago and it is hard for even such a painful case as terrorism to bring us back together." 

For some on this side of the Atlantic, the London attacks created a certain affinity between Europe and the United States that was briefly reminiscent of the atmosphere immediately after 9/11, when the world's heart went out to wounded New York and Washington, D.C. Few here have forgotten the ash-caked, traumatized faces emerging from the stricken Twin Towers, just as few will forget the London woman clutching a burn mask to her face in a chilling evocation of Edvard Munch's painting, "The Scream." 
But rifts remain. 
"The public feels closer to the United States because of what it suffered on Sept. 11, greater than that of 

American society after Sept. 11. In the United States, the 19 hijackers were foreigners. In the United Kingdom, the eight suspected in the attacks arn children of' multicultural soeiety." 
Now, the British govnrnment is rethinking its policy of accommodating radical Muslim preachers, with Prime Minister Tony Blair proposing dnportation measures. But these have been criticiznd for going against the nation's lib­eral traditions. 
Many Britons bristle at Blair's recent statement that immigrants have to "play by our rules and our way of life," saying he is using the attacks as a pretext for slipping dra­conian measures past a trau­matized public. 
"He is just pandering to nationalism. We are all humans," said Hobert Norden. a 55-year-old teacher in London. 
Some experts, hownver. argue that until the July 7 bus and subway bombings, the British government had been playing a dangerous game of appeasement with Islamic radicals. 
page 10 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, September 8, 2005 
Thousands evacuated 
Hurricane separates loved ones 
Pregnant women, terminally ill apart from families during storm 
by tnilitary, police 
Associated Press 
New Orleans residents holding out in homes 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -Using the unmistakable threat of force, police and soldiers went house to house Wednesday to try to coax the last 10,000 or so stub­born holdouts to leave storm­shattered New Orleans because of the risk of disease from the putrid, sewage-laden floodwa­ters. 
"A large group of young men· armed with M-16s just arrived at my door and told me that I have to leave," said Patrick McCarty, who owns several buildings and lives in one of them in the city's Lower Garden District. "While not saying they would arrest you, the inference is clear." 
A frail-looking 86-year-old Anthony Charbonnet grumbled as he locked his front door and walked slowly backward down the steps of the house where he had lived since 1955. 
"I haven't left my house in my life," he said as soldiers took him to a helicopter. "I don't want to leave." 
Mayor C. Ray Nagin ordered law officers and the military late Tuesday to evacuate all holdouts -by force if necessary. He warned that the combination of fetid water, fires and natural gas leaks after Hurricane Katrina made it too dangerous to stay. 
In fact, the first government tests confirmed Wednesday that the amount of sewage-related bacteria in the floodwaters is at least 10 times higher than acceptable safety levels. Dr. Julie Gerberding, chief of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, warned stragglers not to even touch the water and pleaded: "If you haven't left the city yet, you must do so." 
As of midday, there were no reports of anyone being removed by force. And it was not clear how the order would be carried out. 
Active-military troops said they had no plans to use force. National Guard officers said they do not take orders from the mayor. And even the police said they were not ready to use force just yet. It appeared that the mere threat of force would be the first option. 
"We have thousands of people who want to voluntarily evacu7 ate at this time," Police Chief Eddie Compass said. "Once they are all out, then we'll concen­trate our forces on mandatory evacuation." 
Mindful of the bad publicity that could result from images of weary residents dragged out of their homes at gunpvint, Compass said that when his offi­cers start using force, it will be the minimum amount necessary. 
"If you are somebody who is 350 pounds, it will obviously take more force to move you than if you are 150 pounds," the chief said. 
The stepped-up evacuation came as workers trying to get into the city to restart essential services came under sniper fire. More than 100 off'icers and seven armored personnel carri­ers captured a suspect in a housing project who had been firing on workers trying to restore cell phone towers, authorities said. 
"These cell teams are getting 
Hachal Watson is 19 years old and nine months pregnant. Her fire on almost a daily basis, so 
1-year-old daughter is missing. we needed to get in here and 
So is her boyfriend. She paces clean this thing up," said Capt. 
the floor of a Houston motel, far Jeff Winn, commander of the 
from her former home in New police SWAT team. "We're put­
Orleans, rubbing her belly ting a lot of people on the street 
while her worries run wild. right now and I think that we 
"I just can't take it no more," are bringing it under control. 
she says in a high-pitched wail. Eight days ago this was a mess. 
"I really can't. I have no Every day is getting a little bit 
momma and no better." 
daddy. That's the The police chief boasted that 
only family I 
7,000 more military, police and 
have." "I just can't Bartholomew being able to do anything. We 
other law officers on the streets 
Her posting, on doesn't know were helpless. We all just want­
take it no
had made New Orleans "proba­
the Web's National their married ~Jd to get in the car and go, or 
more.

bly the safest city in America 
Next of Kin names. She has get on a plane and fly down 
right now." 
Hegistry: "I am another brother there. But where would we go? 
Across miles of ravaged neigh­
safe in Houston Rachal Watson in Bay St. Louis What would we do? How would 
borhoods of clapboard houses, 
hotel looking for on the destroyed we look for them?" 
hurricane victim 
grand estates and housing proj­
baby girl." 
ects, workers struggled to find 
She is one of 

and count corpses sniffed out by 
thousands upon 
cadaver dogs in the 90-degree 
thousands looking for the ones 
heat. The mayor has said New 
they love in any way they can. 
Orleans' death toll could reach 
In the wreckage of Katrina, 
10,000. Already, a temporary 
not much works, especially the 
warehouse morgue in rural St. 
phones. So desperate families 
Gabriel that had been prepared 
try to reach the missing 
to take 1,000 bodies was being 
through television or the 
readied to handle 5,000. 
Internet. 
The enormity of the disaster 
Most pleas on the Web begin 
came ever-clearer in neighbor­
the same: "Where are you?" 
ing St. Bernard Parish, which 
The only difference is the num­
was hit by a levee break that 
ber of question marks. 
brought a wall of water up to 20 
Eleanor Sawyer of New 
feet high. State Rep. Nita Hutter 
Orleans writes, "I am staying at 
said 30 people died at a flooded 
the Hirsch Coliseum in 
nursing home in Chalmette 
Shreveport, Louisiana and I 
when the staff left the elderly 
looking for my son Darrell 
residents behind in their beds. 
Sawyer ..." 
And Rep. Charlie Melancon said 
On another site, Patty Hein 
more than 100 people died at a 
looks for her sister and brother­
dockside warehouse while they 
in-law, from Long Beach, Miss. 
waited for rescuers to ferry 
"Any info about where they 
them to safety. 
lived, ifit's intact, any word, we 
The floodwaters continued to 
are so worried," she wrote. 
recede, though slowly, with only 
On the Web site of the 
23 of the city's normal contin­
National Center for Missing and 
gent of 148 pumps in operation, 
Exploited Children, photo­
along with three portable 
graphs have been posted of 20 
pumps. The water in St. 
Louisiana children whose par­
Bernard Parish had fallen 5 
ents are missing. 
feet. 
Some are toddlers. Others are 
Because of the standing water, 
teenagers. Most are in between 
doctors were being urged to 
-8, 9, 10 years old. The 
watch for diarrheal 'illnesses 
youngest grin at the camera. 
caused by such things as E. coli 
The teenagers try hard not to 
bacteria, certain viruses, and a 
look scared. The kids in the 
type of cholera-like bacteria 
middle just look bewildered. 
common along the warm Gulf 
Liz Bartholomew, who lives in 
Coast. 
a small town about 50 miles 
north of Anchorage, Alaska, has After a week, Angie Holman been searching the Web to find in Jacksonville, Fla., had given her half brother, Hayward up hope. Four family members Smith, who lives outside in the New Orleans area, Gulfport, Miss. They weren't including one who is blind and close, and she weeps admitting diabetic, hadn't been heard that. from. Hamon had registered 
"He's old and he has prostate their names on every Web site cancer and he's got dementia," she could find. She monitored she said. "He lives by himself in television news broadcasting, that trailer." She has called and searching the background for called, but the circuits are too faces she recognized. busy to get through. He has "I would just be looking to see 
three grown if I could see someone who 
daughters who belonged to me," she said. "It's 
live nearby, but just the not knowing and not 
Mississippi On Monday, just before mid­shoreline, but he night, the Hed Cross called can't get out of Holman's grandmother. 
the area to check on Smith. "They're all accounted for. "It's horrifying," she sobbed. They're in some kind of shelter "Just horrifying." in Lafayette, La. They're all On Wednesday, she got word together," Holman said he was OK. "I found him," she Tuesday, her voice breaking in said. relief and exhaustion. "We 
On national television, rela­haven't been able to speak with tives stand in front of the them, but they're OK. They lost Houston Astrodome and other everything, but they got out evacu.ation sites, holding card­with their lives." board signs bearing names of And then there is Rachal the missing and phone numbers Watson, who thought things for them to call. couldn't get much worse than 
Others look directly into camera lenses and beg for 
"We alljust
information, or try 

wanted to get in 
to give it. "Your mother and the car and go ... daddy are headed 
But where would 
for the convention 

we go? What would 
center," said Bettie Perrier of New we do?" Orleans, as she headed for a bus, 
Angie Holman
trailing tears of 
Jacksonville, FL

frustration. "We don't know what resident we'll do there." 
Trina Sutton, 

having to live in the Louisiana Superdome without power or food or water. She dove under a National Guard truck when people in the surging crowd outside shot at rescue helicop­ters. "I was so scared I forgot I was preg­
looking angry and frantic, stood nant," she said. "I landed on my outside the Astrodome and stomach, like a baseball slide." recited her phone number on Not long after, she started CNN. She was separated from having contractions. She was her two children, Marice and taken by ambulance to New Deverenisha, as they were Orleans' airport. "The wouldn't being evacuated. She has no let my baby or my boyfriend on idea where they are. "No one the ambulance. They said I had can'ttell me nothing," she said. to get on by myself." 


Thursday, September 8, 2005 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Share your space, but live on your own.. 
SOUTH AFRICA 
U.N. says anti-poverty goals urunet 
Rich-poor gap widens, one-fifth of humanity living on one dollar per day 
Associa1cd Press 
.JOIIANNESBUHG-Time is running out li1r world leaders to keep their promises to roll back poverty and millions of people will die needlessly over the next dncade without drastic changes, the U.N. warned in a major mport Wndnnsday. 
The stark findings were pre­smlted to the 191 U.N. member nations a week bnfore they meet in Nnw York for a summit to rnview progress toward the Millennium Development Goals. The targnts sot in 2000 include halving extrmne poverty, reduc­ing child dnaths by two-thirds and achieving universal primary education by 2015. 
The goals were promised by IX9 governmnnts to the world's poor pnople, and the countries havn lnss 10 years to make good on them, said Kevin Watkins, chinf author of the 2005 I Iuman l>nvelopment Hnport. One land­mark will be next week's meet­ing. 
lie said that "without the requimd investment and political will," the promises will not be nwt. 
Progress is being madn overall, the document shows. Life c~xpectanc~y has increasml by two years in developing countries, and mom than 130 million peo­ple have bncm lifted out of pover­ty since~ the U.N. Development Fund's first report in 1990. Thnrn am 2 million fewer child dnaths annually and 30 million mom childnm in sehool. 
But many eountries are falling bnhind, espedally in sub­Saharan Afric~a. where the IIIVIAII>S pandemic has inflicted the single greatest reversal in human development. 
Eighteen countries -12 in Africa and six in central-eastern Europe -registered lower scores on the UNDP's human development index than in 1990. 
The index ranks 177 countries based on income, life expectancy and education figures from 2003. Norway tops the list, while Niger is last. The United States ranked 10th. 
South Africa, which has more people living with the HIV virus that causes AIDS than any other country, has dropped 35 places on the development index since 1990. 
Life expectancy in Botswana has fallen by 20 years since the 1970s to just 36. A Zambian has less chance of reaching 30 than a person born in England at the dawn of the Industrial Revolution in 1840. 
Despite growing global pros­perity, more than 1 billion people still survive on less than $1 a day, 10.7 million children die before their fifth birthday and 115 million are not in school. 
In many instances the gap between rieh and poor is widen­ing, the report said. One-fifth of humanity live in countries where many think nothing of spending $2 on a cappuccino. Another fifth survive on less than $1 a day. 
In many countries that are making progress, it is only the wealthiest who are benefiting. The gap between child mortality rates among rieh and poor is increasing in eountries like Ghana, Zambia and Uganda. 
In India, the death rate in chil­dren under 5 is 50 percent high­er li>r girls than boys. 
Such disparities present one of the greatest barriers to progress, Watkins said. At the current rate, 115 countries with a combined population of almost 2.1 billion are off track by more than a gen­eration on at least one millenni­um goal. 
Reducing the number of chil­dren who die before 5 is project­ed to take until 2045. That trans­lates into 41 million more child deaths over the next decade than if the target were met. 
Missing the target on reducing poverty would mean 380 million more people surviving on less than $1 a day, the report said. 
Governments of developing countries must take responsibili­ty for reversing these trends by tackling inequalities, respecting human rights, encouraging investment and rooting out cor­ruption, the report said. But their success will depend on wealthy nations making major changes in aid, trade and securi­ty policies. 
This year saw the eight richest nations devote unprecedented attention to poverty at their sum­mit in Gleneagles, Scotland, including a pledge to double aid to $50 billion by 2015. 
But aid levels are still far from keeping pace with growing incomes in the wealthiest coun­tries, the report said. Much of the help is poorly coordinated and comes with too many strings attached -including the pur­chase of goods and services from donor countries, which reduce~ the value of aid by almost $2 bil­lion in sub-Saharan Africa alone. 
Improving aid will be meaning­less without giving poor coun­tries a fairer share of.world 
EGYPT 

Elections take step tow-ard detnocracy 
Associated Press 
CAIRO -Amnah Mohammnd walked out of the polls, proclaim­ing she had voted for President Hosni Mubarak "because I love him." Then the 35-year-old widow rushed away to get the bottle of eooking oil and packet of sugar a ruling party official had promised her in return for her 
vote. 

It was one of a number of instances of pressure, intimi­dation or incen­tives to vote reported by both citizens and opposition par­ties across Egypt on Wednesday as the country held its first presidential elec­tion in which voters had a choice of candi­dates. 
The United 

States hopes the vote will be a key step toward democracy across the Middle East. But the ballot wa'i marred by charges of fraud and the near-certainty that Mubarak will win another six years in office. 
The leading opposition candi­date, Ayman Nour, charged the elections "arc not fair at all," and vowed to r~ject rigged resull'i. 
II owever, a top official in another major opposition party, El-Sayed el-Badawy, said that while fraud and intimidation were apparcmt, "This is the first time for a president to reach out 
"/ think it's safe to 
president was 
say that Egyptians expected to win handily. Final
have not seen a 
results were not
presidential 
due until Saturday. 
election like the El-Badawy and several independ­
one they have just 
ent monitoring
seen in their 
groups said they
lifetimes. " thought turnout was low, contrary to government pre­
Sean McCormack 
dictions of high
U.S. State 
turnout. The num­Department ber of voters might spokesman indicatn whether to the citizens and ask for their support. Thi'i is a positivn thing." 
Osama Attawiya, spokesman for the country's election com­mission, said the panel had received no major eomplainl<; or reporl'i of problems. 
Nine candidates ran against Mubarak thi'i time, but only two were considcrnd significant -Nour of the al-Ghad Party and 
Noaman Gomaa of 
the Wafd -and the 
recent calls for 
reform have shak­en Egyptians out of an apathy gfmerated by years of stah'Ilation. 
In Washington, State Department spokesman Sean McCormaek said the U.S. govern­ment wa'i f(>llowing the ele!:tion closely and called the votn "a beginning." 
"These elections really mark a historic departure for Egypt, in the fact that you have multiean­didate prnsidential elections. I think it's safe to say that Egyptians have not seen a prnsi­dential elnction like thn onn thny have just seen in thdr lil(ltimns," he said. 
All furnishings pictured are from Wai-Mart. Storage 
WAL*MART. 

Get everything for your dorm room at Walmart.com and still afford tuition. ALWAYS LOW PRICES. 
f}!!!!t" 
Walmart.com 

r------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, September 8, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Madonna and child 
P.O. BoK 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROll.ER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporcs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 

PHOTO DESK I· (574) 631-8767 phow@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMUfiSTRATORS 
(574) 631-883? 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's C..ollege. Editorial coment, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves rhe right to refuse advertisemems based on conrem. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chid; Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commemaries, lerrets and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available ro all readers. The free 
expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. 
!.etters to the Editor must he signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regt~rding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefC!ttire Heininget: 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob!ierYtr (USPS 599 2-4000) is·publi~hcd Monday through Friday O:<:qJt during ~'xouu and vac;n\on periods. A~ubscription to The Obscrvcr ill' $100 fur ont academic year; SS5 for one,emcsrer. 
The Ob!iCrvtr l$ published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Stnd addres5 o.:orrco:iol'UI to: None Dame. IN 465')6.0779 The Observer l'eriodit:.ll postage paid at N~)lft: Da.rm P.O. il<>x779 .and addidonal mailing oJfrc~. 024 South Dining Hall 
Norrt Dame, lN 46-556-0779 
The Ob~rvcr is J member ofthe Associated Ptess:. All repmducti'm rights are tt!SCtvcd, 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News 

Meghan O'Neil Sports Lisa Schultz Chris Khorey Janice Flynn Bobby Griffin 
Viewpoint Justin O'Neill Joey King Scene Graphics Liz Byrum 
Matt Hudson 

Some years ago, I came by a fact about Madonna. I don't know how it happened; I do everything I can to avoid learning about celebrities' lives, but somehow the information keeps seeping in. 
Madonna had let it be known that her daughter, Lourdes, was not allowed to watch television because Madonna believed it was a bad influence. 

Perhaps, I remarked to a friend of mine, what Madonna was really worried about was that Lourdes might turn on MTV and happen across her mother's "Erotica" video. That scream, I said, would be audible from space. 
' My friend demurred. He's a physicist, so I initially assumed his complaint was that a scream cannot travel through the vacuum of space, but it turned out that what he objected to was my slur on Madonna's parenting. 
If Madonna's raunchy videos would be disturbing to her daughter, my friend countered, it was not her fault, but the fault of our society for teaching her daughter that sex is something to be ashamed of. If only we could get over the puritanical idea that sex is dirty, if only we could get past our prissy Victorian taboos, then we would live in a less hypocritical and healthier culture. 
This argument is made (or just as fre­quently assumed) in all kinds of debates, but these days it is most commonly encountered in discussions of pornogra­phy. I don't think it's a good argument, but it does seem to be an effective one (who wants to be a prissy Victorian?), and it has no doubt contributed to the increasing acceptance of pornography in our culture. 
In the show "Friends" (a sitcom none more mainstream than which can be imagined), Chandler's wife treats his predilection for internet pornography as 

Peter Wicks 
Englishman Abroad 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
a foible deserving of ridicule, rather than a vice deserving censure. It's a familiar stance off screen as well as on; porn (notice how the abbreviation "porn" already makes pornography seem less serious, more familiar) is just one of those dumb things guys like, a bit embarrassing really, but hardly a moral issue. 
Further signs that pornography has lost some of its stigma can be seen in higher education. Linda Williams, who teaches film studies at the University of California, Berkeley was described not so long ago in the Boston Globe as "a leading porn theorist," which is one of those phrases that should set off alarm bells in the reader's head. 
Okay, so that's Berkeley, which prides itself on being out of step with main­stream culture, but other universities are teaching pornography too. At Wesleyan University (Wesleyan!) Hope Weissman taught a course which required students to create their own pornographic works for their fmal proj­ect ("I don't put any constraints on it," she explained, "It's supposed to be: 'Just create your own work -of pornogra­phy."'). The University of Southern California invited Grace Quek, an "adult film actress" (all three words are accu­rate, but somehow none of them really gets to the heart of the matter), to create a "sex studies" major. Apparently, dur­ing one class Quek (who performs under a different name) had sex with two of her female friends in front of the stu­dents. 
In Britain, the television networks are not permitted to show pornography, but they do everything they can to provide a close approximation of it, often in the form of late night "documentaries" about the adult film industry-as if what makes the films themselves dirty is the presence of a fictional narrative. Apparently we're supposed to imagine that while a film showing people having sex counts as pornography, a iilm of those same people being filmed while having sex is cultural journalism. 
These days even the feminists, tradi­tionally opponents of pornography, are divided on the issue. Some still believe that pornography contributes to women's oppression but are reluctant to denounce it for being seen as making common cause with the Religious Right. Others are keen to avoid the issue because they wish to avoid encouraging the stereotype that feminists are anti­sex. And then there are those have dis­covered that they actually rather enjoy pornography themselves and so declare that it can be empowering, a means through which women can take control of their own sexuality, and so on. 
It is sometimes argued that we should­n't get worked up about pornography because it's really nothing new, indeed it's as old as civilization; the Greeks and the Romans were both fond of sexually explicit paintings and some of their poetry is pretty saucy. 
Well, it's notoriously difficult to define pornography, but wherever and howev­er we draw the line there, it surely must be admitted that there is a major differ­ence between the graphic frescoes found in Pompeii and the videos of real ­albeit cartoonishly proportioned -peo­ple having sex that form the backbone of America's pornography industry. And the fact that that industry has an annual turnover of somewhere in the region of $14 billion suggests that modern pornography is without precedent not just in its nature, but also in the scale of its consumption. 
La Rochefoucauld said that hypocrisy is the tribute that vice pays to virtue. So one easy way to do away with hypocrisy is to do away with the distinction between virtue and vice, but that would be a Pyrrhic victory, and a culture in which Lourdes could watch her mother cavorting around as a dominatrix might well be less hypocritical, but it certainly won't be healthier. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student iri the philosophy department who had an English accent long before Madonna did. He can be contacted at pwicks@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing to help Hurricane Katrina relief? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Submit aLetterI 
.d.t tI

t10 th·ieE! rJOf a1 
www.ndsmcobserver.com:.· I:
. w 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We adore chaos because 
we love to produce order. " 
M. C. Escher artist 

THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Thursday, September 8, 2005 page 13 
Open letter to Father Jenkins: Burnishing the public image 
Tho first installment of this lettnr traend tho eonrwdion between tho tendeney of sonw administrators to run Notrn Dame like a business and certain problems fhcnd by tho univorsity at tho bnginning of your prosidnncy. Of partir.u­lar eonenrn an~ prob­Kenneth lmns of image-making, Sayre of grade inflation and of rnislnading TCI<:s. This Guest sneond installrnnnt Columnist fiJt:usns on problmns of imagn-making spndfkally. 
l.ikn all institutions of higher lnarning. Notre Damn has a stake in maintaining a fitvorabln publie imago. The pownr of a Notrn Damn degrnn to optm doors and to influnnen poopln depnnds upon the llnivnrsity's reputation. as does it.'i sueep,ss in recruiting studnnl'i and in raising funds. Tho dt~grnn is in suflicitmt demand to prompt the thought among administrators that Notro Damn is in tl1n business of mar­knting an attradive eommodity. To tho nxtont that Notrn Dame is run like a busi­noss. iL'i fiJrtune is dntorminod by the kind of image it prnsonL'i to tho public at largo, nspod<lily to prospndivo studnnl<> and donors. 
Somn manifi~stations of Notre Dame's image arn relatively constant and not likely to dmnge. Others are morn fluid. Durable eomporwnl'i indudn thn Golden Dome, the l.eprm:haun and the Notrn Dame logo. To these might bo addnd episodes from it.'i sto­rind past that can be encapsulated in the filfm of a pieturn (the Four llorsemen) or sound bit11 ("win one !or the Gipper"). A<> long as tlwy rnmain unsullind, symbols like thnsn arn elleetive in generating good pub­licity. 
Morn fluid arn impressions of the 
.. Univnrsity gonnrated by iL'i involvement in nowsworthy current ovonl<>. A recent exam­pin is the un!itvorabln publicity caused by tlw firing of Coach Willingham, which was eounternd by a PH e!liJrt fiJcusod on ilie sue­cess of roplacmnont Coach Weis in tho last Supnr Bowl. Spndal bailiwicks like the Athlntie Dnpartmnnt have their own publici­ty olliens. Imagn-managmnent for ilie University at largo, however, is handlnd mostly by the Nnws and lnfiwmation Ollicn. Some publicity work is also fitrmed out to dodicatl~d organizations like Golden Dome l'rodudions, whieh have assisted in numer­ous eapital eampaigns and other PH ven­tums. Them is no doubt that the task of main­taining a positivo public image should be nuumgod in a profi1ssionalmanner. The question of pn~snnt mncern is what kind of' imago Notm Dame should be trying to proj­ect, and to what purpose. Is it in the University's bost intnmst to eonstruet an image tailomd expressly to elidt desirnd 
responses f'rom specific audiences, like that of' a successful candidate in recent national nloetions'? Or is the University better served by presenting itself' to the world as it really is, like an old-style presidential eandidate on the back of' a campaign train'? 
Put otherwise, the qunstion is whothnr tho Univnrsity's publicity managers should concentrate on f'abricating an imago that will attraet donors and potential students, or whether their n!forts should bn direeted primarily toward making known the gen­uine worth of' a Notre Dame education. While tho implicit goal in both cases is to advance the intnrests of tho University, the two approaches diller on how that goal is to bn aceomplished. The difference is analo­gous to that bntweon trying to boost sales of a brand of cereal by gimmicks like faney packaging and deceptive pricing, and trying to improve sales by enhancing the actual quality of the product. Although profession­al image-managers would bn quiek to ombraen the latter as their "ofTieial'' posi­tion (e.g., in mission statement.<>), there are signs that the former may be emerging in practice as Notre Dame's dominant publici­ty strategy. 
Consider, for example, a recent web-post­ing (http://und.eollogesport.<>.com), which observed that "Notre Dame's commitment to academie exeellenee, values, service and eharaeter development" places it among tl10 nation's top 25 institutions of higher learning. Evidence o!fered to that ellect induded Notre Dame's being one of only nine schools in ilie nation iliat admit less that half their freshman applicants, its ranking consistently among the top 25 in the survey conducted annually by "U.S. News and World Report," and its repeated high ranking among the nation's "Most Wired College." 
Not mentioned in ilie web-posting was the fact that a dozen or so ofilie nation's best institutions (including Harvard, Princeton, Yale, and Stanford) refused to participate in ilio "Most Wired" competition because it inducted no evaluation of how well technology meets ilieir educational nneds. Also relevant is ilie fact iliat the "U.S. News" rankings have come under extensive criticism among educators for allowing institutions to fudge in reporting data and for mea.'iuring factors extraneous to genuine education. A<> far <L'i admission rates arn eoneerned, ilie faet that Notre Dame can be selective indicates iliat many student.<; want to come here, but says noth­ing about whether they come for academi­eally sound rea.<>ons. 
Commitment to values like acadomic exeelloneo and character development unquestionably is a good thing. Indeed, few solf-respeeting institutions of higher learn­ing would want to gainsay it. But success in meeting such a commitment cannot be 
measured by numerical rankings among 
like-minded universities. 
Nor ean it be measured by statistics inter­nal to a particular university. Notre Dame takes pride in ilio increasing SAT scores of il'i entering students (up an average of about .01 a year). It also tracks the gradua­tion rates of these students oneo they matriculate (currently about 93%), their averagn cumulative GPA<> at hrraduation (currently over 3.4 and rising), and the per­centage of Bachelor Degrees received with Honors (more than doublnd in the pcL'it 20 years). But there is no attempt to evaluate these figures in light of the well-known facts that high schools are increasingly intnnt on coaching their college-bound studenl'i to do well on the SATs, that institutions can adjust their graduation requirements to lot through almost any percentage they please, and that grade inflation is rampant among ()Ven the best colleges and universities. 
A<> informed observers have stressed time and again, the genuine quality of edueation cannot be measured in quantitative terms. This Limitation would bn beside the point if the purpose of an educational institution were conceived mainly as a eommereial venture. In point of fact, the success of a commercial enterprise is gauged by the number of potential customers it attracts and the percentage that end up buying the product. But if NO's primary purpose is to provide a high quality education, and not merely to market a product, it<> success can­not be measured by a set of statistics. 
In the months to come, Notre Dame's new administration will be examining its priori­ties regarding the academic mission of the University. It is not unreasonable to hope iliat top priority will be given to providing ilie best education possible, as distinct from ilie most efficient marketing of a Notre Dame degree. If a eommitment is made to ilie goal of a top quality education, however, a number of practical ramifications will fol­low in its train. These need to be considered as part of ilie self-examination process. 
One ramification is iliat primary responsi­bility for maintaining Notre Dame's public image .will no longer rest wiili the News and Information Office and similar PH opera­tions. Their services will still be needed in overseeing news releases, and in providing advice on how the way University conduct.<> il'i business will be perceived by the general public. The persons primarily in charge of the UnivHrsity's image, noneilieless, will b11 its top academic officers. Their main task in this regard will be to make sure that what really happnns at Notre Dame is worthy of being made known to the public at large. The upshot will be that Notre Dame will have tho reputation it deserves, rather than one constructed by professional image-makers. 
Another 'eonsnquenee is that thn top ant­demic oflieers must bneome thoroughly acquaintod with what is adually going on in the dassrooms, the laboratories, tho dormi­tories and tho various social vonut1s whnre intelleetual and eharaetor f(Jrmation of indi­vidual studnnl'i is taking plaen. A siznable number of veto ran profossors sharn the impression that tho intellectual filfmation of Notre Dame studenl'i has detnrioratod sig­
. nifkantly over tho past twonty years. The sharnd view is that thorn has bnen a distind diminution in intelleetual euriosity, in ability to think critieally, and in skills of spnaking and writing eohernntly. Morn student.<; aro getting higher grades fiJr less nfl'ort exptmd­ed on their studies, and too many am receiving credit lilr ela'ises they seldom attnnd. The new administration should make a sustained emJrt to find out whother impressions sueh as these havn an objnetive basis, and if so what eorroetivn adions would be ef1C1etive. 
A<> far as character and personal valuns are eoneernnd, eurrnnt student mores seem to support binge drinking, fiJUr-day week­ends and chnating on exams if you can w~t by with it. In a typical daily routine, too much time seems to bn spnnt knnping up with pop eultum and too little in developing habiL'i of discernment and recreation (oftnn called "good taste") that will provide nour­ishment and staying-power in later lif(J. Among religiously aetive studenb, in turn, there appears to be more emphasis on judging the desert of other people than on charitable practices that would inspire oth­ers to share their faith. If misgivings of this sort turn out to be well founded, the University might want to reiliink the man­ner and extent of il<> involve mont in student culture. 
These are only a lew suggestions of possi­ble shortcomings your new administration might want to look into as it takes charge of the University's public image. If correction is needed, it should be undertaken with the goal of making ilie education Notre Dame provides so attractive that it needs no fur­thor embellishment. 'Phe public image that result<> would attract both studenL<> and donors with a genuine interest in education. This is quitp, different from an imagn calcu­lated to attract potential consumers and to enhanee the commerdal value of a Notre Dame degree. 
Kenneth Sayre is a professor ofphiloso­phy. This column is the second in a four­part series addressed to new l fniuersity President Father John Jenkins. 1/e can be contacted at ksayre@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Expanding our communities 
This p<L'it wneknnd, Nato Wills, C.S.C. pro­fi~ssnd his final vows in tho Conhrregation of lloly Cross and W1L'i ordainml a deacon in thn Catholk Chureh. On Saturday in the Basilica, Nato made a "profi~ssion of' per­petual vows" in lloly Cross, promising to live 
Kate tho vows of poverty, Barrett eelibat:y and obedience throughout his lifi~timn Faithpoint within the mnununity of' lloly Cross. On Sunday in the Momau Smninary Chapnl, he WIL'i ordainml to tlw Ordnr of' Deacon, to snrve in that capacity until his ordination to tlw prinsthood nnxt licL'iter Saturday. Most likdy only a small percnntagn of' our Notrn Damn community will evnr fi1nl eallnd to rdigious lifn <L'i thnir vocation. but nach of us who IHL'i bnen baptized h<L'i a vocation norwtlwlnss. Part of' our life task as mem­bnrs of tho Body of' Christ is to answnr the qw~stion, "To what ha.'i (;od called me'?'' I lave you asknd yourself' this question late­ly? Maybe you -or othors you know­have nover asked it of yourself, but we each 
should. Early and often, a.<> they say in Chieago. You may find that you'm already exactly where you should be and doing what you should be doing, but chances are you will find that God hopes and wishes filr you to live out your baptismal promises more fully, to fiJIIow Christ more dosoly, to serve and love others more deeply and fronly. 
We might learn something along the way about how to do tllis by thinking about how Dnaeon Nato movnd forward in his vocation this woekend. Just as Jesus hogan his pub­lie ministry by choosing a group of disciplos, Deaeon Nate was weleomed into Holy Cross and promised his heart and his lifo to them through his pnrpntual vows. Think about most anything you do-aren't burdens mL'iod, an111't sorrows lifted, isn't the mun­dane morn intoresting and aron'tjoys mag­nifind when shared with others'? Evon more so, then, ean we answer and live out the question, "To what has God callod me'?" if we do so in a eommunity that supports, challenges and encourages us. 
llaving made those promisos to lloly Cross, Deacon Nate was ready to be ordained a deacon ilie following day. He can take the next step in his life's vocation as a priest from within a community. No matter how mueh he struggles, no matter what he linds almost too difficult to bear and no matter what amazing truths he learns through his service, he will have around him brothers in Christ with whom he can live out his joy, or sorrow, or fear. 
So who are your communities'? And if that word sounds too formal fiJr you, you're still not oil' the hook. Just substitute "group of friends." Who do you hang out with, who do you talk about the future with'? Can you ask each other the question, "To what has God called me'?'' If your dosest chums would laugh you oft' the eoueh for asking, porhaps that might give you a reason to pause. And if you're already a part of a great, thoughtful, fhithful group of friends, then look around. Who might need an invi­tation to join you'? Anybody look a little lonely in your section or in your 9 a.m. class'? 
Deacon Nate chose as ilie first reading for his final vows liturgy the p<L'isage from I Samuel where God calls Samuel. Thn first iliree times Samuel doesn't understand and thinks his mentor Eli is calling him (1 Sam. 
3:1-10). Finally, Eli figures out what's going on and tells Samuel, "If it happtms again, say, 'Speak, Lord, for your servant is listen­ing."' lfwo'mlueky, we all have wise Eli's in our communities, someone who ean point us toward God and eneouragn us to listen when God speaks to us. I,ook ar!luml fiJr an Eli or two in your life, or bn one for some­body else who needs a push in tho right direction. We all nnnd each othnr, to hear God's call and to becoino servanl'i who Iis­ton. May we find, <L'i Dnaeon Nato IHL'i, com­munities from within whieh we can reach out to others in snrviee of thn Kingdom of God. 
Kate Barrett is the Director ofUesources & Special Projects for Campus Ministry. ,','he can be contacted at Barrett.28@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those (lthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE

page 14 Thursday, September 8, 2005 
CD REVIEWS 
British dance band broadens U.S. horizons 
of rockpalastarchiv.de Jay Kay, the lead singer and song writer for Jamiroquai, a British dance/funk band, performs on stage. The band will release their sixth album on Sept. 20. 
Hold Steady's creativity shines in latest effort 
By JOE LATTAL 
Scene Critic 
After the release of "Separation Sunday" last spring, The Hold Steady became the kings of low and medium market media. 
The band received a "best new music" tag from the influential Pitchfork Media, as well as an inter­view. They performed on "Last Call with Carson Daly." In Targees latest ad campaign, a series of online videos called "Odds Against Seven," college freshmen drive across state lines to see The Hold Steady play live. 
However, none of the hype matters if you can't get used to frontman Craig Finn's hard-hitting yet rangeless voice. His half speaking, half singing delivery is a "love-it-or-hate-it" stain on the New York by-way-of Minneapolis band's debut. It takes time to get used to Finn's voice, or at least time to tune 

it apparent that this is really how 
Separation Sunday 
Finn sings. It wasn't just one song. Finn refus­
The Hold Steady 
es to be distract­
........... ,, -• __ ., II 

ed by the tri­umphant and
j. ~7,-',',
French Kiss 

hectic chord 
~-~ _· -·--. -1 

changes of the chorus, always maintaining his storytelling tone. "Your Little
Recommended tracks: 'Hornets! Homets!,''Cattle and 
Hoodrat Friend" 
Creeping Things' and 'Stevie Nix' 
is the strongest song on the 

it out. Though, the man can write good poetry. His he-said-she-said lyrics dress up an album driven by ·an over­used narrative -traveling around the country and watching stuff happen. 
Here's the good news. "Separation Sunday" has some of the most fun gui­tar riffs from the last year. The music r~calls themes from nearly every era of rock, with distortion, Hammond organ and piano. Each song appeals to large audiences -upbeat, but not heavy enough to offend anyone. None of the songs drag, and there is enough variety between each song to keep the story interesting. (Which is good because Finn's voice never changes.) 
An a cappella opening of "Hornets! Hornets!" starts off the album before exploding into a guitar-driven verse about bitter post-breakup thoughts: "She said I won't be much for conver­sation ... I kinda dig these awkward silences." 
The· track, "Cattle and Creeping 
Things," makes 
It wasn't until 1996's "TravelingBy VINCE LABRIOLA Without Moving" that Jamiroquai (Jay Scene Critic Kay and his consistently-changing band 
mates) reached a wide American audi­
Famous in the late 1990's for their ence. Backed by the eye-catching video VMA-winning single "Virtual Insanity," for "Insanity" and a dance hit with the British-born dance group "Cosmic Girl," the band could be seen Jamiroquai has since been largely on MTV for quite some time. ignored by American audiences, Jamiroquai's next few albums, howev­despite attaining superstar status er, never became popular in the U.S., across the pond some years ago. It may and as a result the band faded into rel­come as a surprise then that ative obscurity until very recently. "Dynamite," the group's latest, is actu­Enter Napoleon Dynamite. That song ally their sixth album and will be in Napoleon dances to? That's "Canned stores on Sept. 20. It's a perfect start­Heat," off of Jamiroquai's excellent ing point for anyone who would like to 1999 release "Synkronized." discover, or re-discover, one of the pre­Riding on the heels of their cameo mier dance groups out there. appearance in one of the biggest suc­
Jamiroquai revolves around its cess stories in independent film comes tabloid-friendly front man, Jay Kay. "Dynamite," an album that is edgier Discovered in near poverty, a single and less musically complex than some demo disc he created bought him an of its predecessors, but thrilling unprecedented eight-CO deal from nonetheless. SonyiBMG. The group's initial offering, "Dynamite" is a synthesizer-based "Emergency on Planet Earth," was album, and Jay Kay's signature bass released in the UK with considerable machine riffs are featured on nearly European success thereafter. every track, swirling furiously 'beneath 
the melodies. The album begins with the excellent open­ing number "Feels Just Like It Should." A slick, dirty, dis­torted disco­influenced track that has Jay Kay shouting, "Slips in, feels good I I love it when you tell me I It feels
Recommended tracks: 'Seven Days in Sunny June,' 
just like it 
'Black Devil Car' and 'Electric Mistress' 
should." Gone is the lighter pop fare that characterized Jamiroquai's earlier albums, replaced with a relentless, darker sound that explores new avenues in the band's musical possibilities. 

The next track, given the same name as the album, is a traditional dance club number filled with repetitious cho­ruses begging to be shouted out loud. Again, the darker, more explicit lyrics make appeara'nces in highlights like "Black Devil Car" and "Electric Mistress," which again call attention to the hyperactive musical arrangements Jamiroquai prefers. 
However, the highlight of the album is the fantastic "Seven Days In Sunny June," a dynamic ballad that is master­fully crafted and filled with sad, intriguing lyrics that reveal what the entire album really is about: a single guy looking for love in all the wrong places. Tracks like "Feels Just Like It Should" and "Black Devil Car" deal with the sexual aspects of the lifestyle, while "Seven Days In Sunny June" deals with the emotional aspect, as Jay Kay croons, " I've wanted you so long I Why'd you have to drop that bomb on me I You said we've been friends too long." 
There is something blatantly honest about the lyrics in "Dynamite," even when they seem to move from one end of the spectrum to the other. The album exudes the feeling of a group that really wants to make good music, and the result is an exciting new album that doesn't disappoint. 
Contact Vince Labriola at vlabriol@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of dinosaurintrouble.blogspot.com The Hold Steady, an indie rock band out of New York City, released its second full-length album, "Separation Sunday," in May of 2005. 
album and also the choice for the band's performance on Carson Daly's show. It is the best song because of the likeable, brief, palm-muted measures in the chorus immediately after the simple chord progressions. It is the strongest because it's the closest Finn comes to actually singing a tune. 
"Stevie Nix" and "Chicago Seemed Tired Last Night" are other highlights on the album. Both bank on the latest trend in indie rock -songs about songs. Each works better than the Statistics' "Final Broadcast" or Trail of Dead's "Worlds Apart." The Hold Steady comes off more sincere and Finn's storytelling delivery makes each track more interesting. 
Not many bands sound like The Hold Steady, and it's probably because they don't really want to sound like them. The description of the band is simple ­a singer who tells stories over rock music. 
But their creative geniuses were aim­ing in that direction. They remain the one band people can be certain aren't lip-synching on stage. 
Contact Joe Lattal at jlattal@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, September 8, 2005 
page 15 
CD REVIEW 
Bigger label gives Death Cab room to grow 
By BRIAN DOXTADER and MOLLY 
GRIFFIN 
A,sistant Scene Fdium 
lh·ian: llmust bn tough to bn Death Cab 
for Cutin. Appnarancns on "Tim O.C." and 
thl\ runaway succnss of' bandlnadnr Bnn 
c;ibhard's sid1\-projnrt Thn Postal Snrvkn 
havn madP Dnath Cab's latest, "Plans," 
llw ollwr holly-awaitml pop/rock mlmts11 
ol' tlw ynar tllw first bning Coldplay's lat­
Pstl. 
I ll•ath Cab rwvnr soundnd likn a band 
intnndml for supnrstanlom, so llw band's 
lwsitanry is irndnrstandabln, but a littln 
disappointing nonellwlnss. "Plans" is evi­
dntH~P ol' a band in transition, making tho 
jump almost, nearly seamlessly to the 
major lalwl hut tripping just slightly on 
tho landing. In nlli\ct, it is thn sound ol' a 
hand that, li11· thn first limn, sounds a lit­
lin unsw·n ol' its dirnetion. 
Ac1:ord ingly, Death Cab's latest isn't "Transatlantidsm," ltlwir last album and llwir lwst thus far) nor is it Tho Postal Snrvil:n's "(;ivn Up." lnstPad, the band trins l.o progrnss forward within thn eon­lines of' its sound, which works in some rasns hut not in otlwrs. It donsn't have thn immmliacy ol' nithPr ol' thn two afilre­nwnlionnd albums, but it does have a warm and inviting sound that suits c;ihhard's starry-eyPd romanticism. 
II' anything, Death Cab sounds morn undnrstatnd than evnr, which is apparnnt from tlw outs11t. "Marching Bands of Manhattan," the opnning salvo, is as qui­nlly agrnnabln as "The Nnw Year" was bombastic on "Transallantidsm." 
Thankfully, the pt:oduction donsn't mute IWI\rything into obscurity, as the songs dPiirwatn themselves quito dearly. This clarity is wnkome and oven necnssary, as thnre are cnrtainly some fantastic songs on "Plans." Among the best arn the pseu­do-epk "I>iiTerent Names for the Same Thing," thn lovely and understated "I Will Follow You Into the Dark" and espneially tlw staggnring "What Sarah Said," undoubtndly the album's mastnrpiece. 
l.ikn most Dnath Cab albums (and also, inddnnta!ly, symptomatic of U2 albums), "Plans" runs a littln too long, and the ovnrall quality starts to dip towards the nnd. 
Gibbard's lyrics are better, though they still tnnd toward mawkishness at times and incomprnhensibility at others. c;ibhard's drnamy idealism -a heady mixturn of universality and oft-bizarre sp1H:ilkity -could bo considered mnbar­rassing, but his honest delivery and ovnr­all narrwstnnss knnp "Plans" afloat. Like l'avnnwnt's Stl\phen Malkmus, c;ibbard is h11st in sound hytns, as he's capable of a killer linn or two, evnn when spinning dangerously dosn to didH1: ''I'm a war of lwad versos lwart and it's always this way I My lrnad is wnak and my hnart always 

Photo courtesy of deathcabforcutie.com Death Cab for Cutie's latest album, "Plans," was released on Aug. 30 under Atlantic Records, a different record label from their previous COs. 
spnaks bnfore I know what it will say," he sings on "Crooked Tenth," the most straight-ahead song on the entire album. 
Additionally, several tracks take cues from the title track on "Transatlanticism," in whieh a single lyrical phrase gets the Philip Glass treatment, to great effect: "Your love is gonna drown," Gibbard intones ropnat1~dly on "Marching Bands of Manhattan," while the droning repetitive­ness on "Different Names For the Same Thing" is more agreeably melodic than merely ingratiating. 
"Plans" is ultimately an album of mod­est pleasures. There's nothing as bradng­ly catchy as "The Sound of Settling," nor is there a lighter-waving 
when you succeed, you fail. Small bands usually accumulate fans on their way up, and some of the luckier groups must decide if they want to stay true to their roots and remain independent or sell out and sign with a bigger record label. 
The album "Plans" marks this cross­road for the band Death Cab for Cutie. They stand on the brink of commercial success with their new album, but they are also leaving the small label and the small underground scene where they were first embraced. The album is the group's first departure from the Seattle­based label Barsuk Hecords and their first album for the much larger Atlantic 
Hecords. 

anthem like "Transant-Death Cab,
Plans

lanticism," but the from a small col­album holds together as 
lege town in well as anything Death Washington Cab has ever cut. It is State, gained a the sound of a band in loyal following
Artist: Death Cab for Cutie 
transition, and while the over the course
Record label: Atlantic/Wea
transition sounds inter­of five albums
Release date: Aug. 30
esting and pleasant, it's and little com­
Recommended tracks: 'I Will Follow 
not quite the bold leap mercial success.
You into the Dark,"Marching Bands 
forward that might've This all changed
of Manhattan' and 'What Sarah Said' .
been hoped for. Death Cab For Cutie has always been a good band and "Transatlanticism" indicated that they might bo a great band. "Plans" isn't quite the fulfillment of that promise, but it's a solid set of songs that will appeal to long­time fans and new listeners alike. 
Molly: Thn independent music scone is a dillicult place f(Jr bands, and sometimes 
with the release 

of 2003's "Trans­atlantieism," which found a more main­stream audience. 
The fact that the television show "The O.C." embraend the band and mentioned them constantly introduced the group to a new, wider audience. The band per­formed on "The O.C." during the second season and songs like "Laek of Color" were featured during prominent and emotional scenns on the show. 
Bnn Gibbard's role as part of the 
emo/tnchno blend Thn Postal Service and 
the succnss of thnir album, "Givo Up," 
also crnated a grnatPr awarPnPss of 
Death Cab for Cutin in thn musical wm­
munity. Thn group's song "Suc:h Gn•at 
llnights," was eovnrnd by Iron and Winn 
for the soundt.nu:k to thn lilm "Gardnn 
State." 

While thn band's image and direction 
an~ changing, the songs on "Plans" arn 
still up to the c:alibnr or the bands prior 
albums. Thn band continuos to stay tnw 
to its nnw roots with 1:ontnmplativn lyrks 
about love, d11ath and tlw aftnrlifn. Thn 
tone of thn album is morn upbnat than 
some or tlw band's othnr nll'orts, and the 
songs sound much morn polislwd and put. 
tognthnr, whieh spnaks to the nxpPrimu:p 
of the band. 
The stand-out t.nu:k on "Plans" is "I Will 
Follow You into the Dark," a simpln but 
potent ballad about love that transc:nnds · 
the boundaries of life. Them are imagns 
or hnavnn, lwll, nuns and lyries like, "If 
thorn's no one beside you whnn you wlwn 
your soul nmbarks I I will follow you into 
the dark." Tlw pownrrul e11'nct of' singnr 
Bnn Gibbard's boyish voke c:oupled with 
the lone guitar on the track makes it sim­
ple but immensely pownrful. 
Other great songs on the album ineludn "Marching Bands or Manhattan," a warm, soaring song about trying to live in the moment and not bning entirely SUI:enss­ful. "Different Namns for the Sanw Thing," a piano-driven song that is about traveling in a li1reign country and being frustrated by the language barrier is another song that sticks in your hnad. 
"Brothers on a llotnl Bed" is notable 
bncause it originated from Chris Walla, 
which is the first song the band has ever 
had thn came from someone othnr than 
lead singer Gibbard, and it deals with tlw .themes of love and growing older. 
Death Cab is known for its dark and 
sometimes depressing lyrics as well as 
arrangements. Their latnst album still has 
lyrics that will bring tears to your eY,es, 
but the arrangements are filled out and 
givP the album a greater snnse of warmth 
and of hope and rnvealing thn band's nnw 
maturity. 
"Plans" is ultimatnly a meditation on dealing with aging and about thn poten­tial that love can die at any time. Thn band's audiencn is growing and nxpand­ing to include a more divnrsn fan basn. If they continue to ac:hievn thn samn musi­cal and emotional quality that "Plans" manages to reach, they will not only lind success with tlwir loyal fans, hut with pnople who apprndatn good musie every­where. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu and Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 


Photo courtesy of deathcabforcutie.com 
The band members of the lndle-rock band Death Cab for Cutle Include, from left Death Cab began as a solo project for lead singer Ben Gibbard, left center, In to right, Chris Walla, Jason McGerr, Ben Gibbard and Nick Harmer. 1997. Since then, they have enjoyed both critical and commercial success. 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 8, 2005 
MLB-AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Giambi slugs homer in eighth to beat D-Rays 
Playing from behind and
Yankees keep lead in 
pressing at the plate, the Yankees wasted a couple of
AL wild card after 
scoring opportunities andwin over Tampa Bay appeared headed to another puzzling loss. Associated Press Down by one, they loaded the bases with one out in the sev­
NEW YORK -Jason Giambi enth, and an angry Lou Piniella and the New York Yankees cer­dispatched Devil Rays pitching tainly never figured it would be coach Chuck Hernandez to pull such a relief to beat Tampa Bay. reliever Trever Miller. 
Giambi hit a go-ahead, two­run homer with two outs in the Boston 6, Los Angeles 3 eighth inning, and New York ral­BOSTON -The Boston Red 
lied past the Devil Rays 5-4 Sox are getting what they need 
Wednesday night for a much­from their starting pitchers: long needed victory against a surpris­outings and strong performanc­ing nemesis. es. 
"I love being in that spot, and Bronson Arroyo became the it's great to come through," fourth Boston pitcher in five Giambi said. "Hopefully, this will games to pitch at least eight get us going and get us on a little innings, and the Red Sox over­bit of a tear." came a three-run deficit with 
Hideki Matsui hit his 400th the help of David Ortiz's two-run professional homer and drove in single to beat the Los Angeles three runs for the Yankees, who Angels Wednesday night. fell behind 4-0 in the first inning "You go eight innings, you are and lost slugger Gary Sheffield doing something really well," 
to a tight hamstring. manager Terry Francona said. 
But New York fought back and During Boston's last five improved to 5-10 against last­games, Arroyo and Matt place Tampa Bay this year after Clement each went eight 
beginning the season 80-31 innings, and David Wells and against the low-budget Devil Tim Wakefield pitched complete Rays, who began play in 1998. games. Ervin Santana (8-7) gave up all Chicago White Sox 5-4, accord­Rodriguez drove in two runs 
Knocked out of his previous Curt Schilling was the only six of Boston's runs. ing to the Elias Sports Bureau. each for the Twins, who trailed outing when he was hit in the member of the current rotation "That shows you right there 5-0 in the second inning for the collarbone by a line drive, Jaret to fall short of eight innings in Oakland 8, Seattle 7 how big a win this was," A's second game in a row. On Wright settled down after a his last start, but showed OAKLAND, Calif. -Nick closer Huston Street said. "In Tuesday, they took a one-run shaky start. improvement in working 6 1-3 Swisher planned on having an order to score five runs you have lead into the ninth before losing 
"That's the most important innings in Monday's 5-3 loss to easy afternoon Wednesday after to do a lot of things and get a lit­to the Rangers 10-7. thing. He didn't lose his compo­the Chicago White Sox. Oakland manager Ken Macha tle lucky. It was unbelievable. Brad Radke became the sec­sure," manager Joe Torre said. "You kind of feed off each told him he had the day off. You saw everybody coming ond straight Twins starter to last 
Tanyon Sturtze (5-3) worked 1 other," said Arroyo (12-9). "I was going to use it to get my through." just two innings, following Kyle 1-3 scoreless innings for the "You're thinking about head right, and the next thing Seattle led 5-0 after three Lohse. Radke allowed five runs win, and Mariano Rivera pitched Wakefield going nine last night. you know I'm up there hitting," innings and was on the verge of and eight hits. a perfect ninth for his 36th save ... I'm sitting down on the bench he said. sweeping its first series at Joe Mays, J.C. Romero, Juan in 40 tries. The Yankees thinking the same thing, trying Swisher walked with the bases Oakland since April 2001 before Rincon and Joe Nathan com­remained four games behind to get deep in the game." loaded to force in the final run the comeback against Eddie bined for seven innings of one­first-place Boston in the AL East Mike Timlin got three outs for as the Athletics overcame a four­Guardado (1-2), who blew a save run, five-hit relief. Mays pitched and a half-game ahead of his seventh save, but a rotation run ninth-inning deficit in a win for the third time in 34 chances, 3 2-3 scoreless innings, his Cleveland in the wild-card race. battered by injuries to Schilling for the first time in 48 years, and Jeff Nelson, who walked longest stint since he was 
With Tampa Bay ahead 4-3, and Wade Miller and inconsis­beating the Seattle Mariners. Swisher on a 3-2 pitch. removed from the starting rota­Joe Borowski (1-3) retired his tency earlier in the season is just "The way things have been tion late last month. first two batters in the eighth where Francona wants it with going, to pull off a win like this Minnesota 8, Texas 6 Romero (4-3) got three outs, before Alex Rodriguez reached 24 games left. Boston main­gives us momentum and confi­MINNEAPOLIS The and Nathan pitched the ninth for out and punched a single to cen­tained its four-game lead over dence," Swisher said. "The way Minnesota Twins came back his 36th save in 41 chances. ter. Giambi then drove an 0-1 the New York Yankees in the AL it happened was cool." from a five-run deficit for the Nathan allowed Hank Blalock's pitch down the right-field line East. Mark Kotsay and Eric Chavez second straight day. This time two~out single and Alfonso for his 27th homer. "Obviously, early in April we hit two-run doubles before they won. Soriano's double before striking 
"It was a slider that didn't didn't let pitchers go as deep Swisher's walk. The last time Minnesota took advantage of a out Kevin Mench. slide. It stayed right there on the into games, Francona said. "We the Athletics came back from throwing error by pitcher Doug Minnesota, which avoided get­inner half. It was a nice pitch to don't want them to get into the four runs down in the ninth to Brocail on a bunt to score two ting swept in the three-game hit," Borowski said. "I tried to dog days of September and have win was in a doubleheader runs in the sixth inning, beating series, began the day 5 1/2 blow it foul, but it stayed true them dragging. So we really try opener on July 4, 1957, when the Rangers Wednesday. games back in the AL wild-card right down the line." to monitor them closely." the Kansas City A's beat the Mike Redmond . and Luis race. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Discrete Math &other subjects at 2 bedroom home within 1.5 rl)iles of WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. FOR SALE: 2 Greenday tix in Indy Spring Break 2006. Travel with my house. Now-May 2006. Prefer campus. Partially furnished with TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. on 9/12. Great seats.$150 obo pair. STS, America s #1 Student Tour WANTED Junior or Senior w/strong Math extra room, washer/dryer, and FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. John 1 Operator to Jamaica, Cancun, 
skills. Can show you how to tutor kitchen appliances. $750/month. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE Acapulco, SOCCER REFEREES needed for other subjects. Email or call for Call 574-250-8552. FOR$$: -269-683-4288. Bahamas and Florida. Now hiring south side elementary school local-more detailed info. Linda 272-8235, www. victorytickets.com on-campus reps. ed near Erskine Golf Course on lwaelchli@datacruz.com LODGING FOR FOOTBALL Current Senior needs MSU tickets Miami St.$35 per soccer game. Call GAMES Visit www.amishcoun-BUYING &SELLING ND FOOT-for family tailgater, willing to 574-291-4200. trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and BALL TJX. CHECK MY PRICES. buy/trade {have tickets to all other Call for group discounts. 
FoR SALE Breakfast Accommodations. Non-games). 2 season tix &parking pass or 2 for smoking, Private Baths, Full 273-3911. Information/Reservations any home game. 574-276-8507. Brand new full mattress &box. Still Breakfasts. Contact Kevin Green at 
in plastic. $120. kgreen@nd.edu or 1-800-648-4849 or LOVE KIDS? Professional Mom Can deliver. 574-876-4474. GOOD HOUSES IN GREAT I would like to purchase your Notre needs help picking up children at NEIGHBORHOODS: Dame football tickets. {281 )635-8346. www.ststravel.com school and taking them to activities Queen pillowtop mattress set. New andersonNDrentals.com or between 3:00-6:00p.m. Monday-with warranty. $155. Can deliver. {574)233-9947. 57 4-289-8048. Spring Break 2006. Travel with Friday. Great kids-daughters ages 57 4-231-4522. PERSONAL STS, America s #1 Student Tour 12-15. Schools and home close to 01 alum looking to rent out Turtle BUY SELL OR TRADE ND FOOT-Operator to Jamaica, Cancun, ND and SMC. Call Karen Stonehill Great Sunnymede area home. Creek townhouse Michigan St. BALL TICKETS. TOP$$ PAID. A.M. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. at 272-5013. Details on line: TIMSHOUS-weekend {9/16 &17) -$500 for -232-2378 P.M.-288-2726 Now hiring on-campus reps. Call for 
ESALE.BLOGSPOT.COM weekend plus full maid cleanup on Do not go it alone. group discounts. Local family looking for part-time Sunday, negotiable. Call Rob {415) PLEASE HELP!!! Buying season babysitter for 2 toddlers. Must love 845-5445 if interested. tix GAs only or any game GAs. If you or someone you love needs Information/Reservations 1-800­
children! References required. confidential support or assistance, 648-4849 or
FoR RENT
Experience a must. Transportation Call Mark 277-1659. please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at necessary. Call574-247-9213. TICKETS 1-7819. www.ststravel.com Tutor{s) needed for Algebra, Blue &Gold Homes. 2-8 bedroom, Will trade my 2 USC tix for 2 MSU. 
weekend rentals, furnished, alumni Email BAUMMYMP@AOL.COM For more information, see our bi-WE LOVE JACK!! 
BABYSITTER-NO home game owned. You design lease WANTED: 4-6 MSU GAs together, Need USC tickets. -weekly ad in days/Other days &nights too. Car Dave Can trade 2 Tenn tix or buy.Call Bill Two more days until Michigan, who rqrd. Call Laura 243-4776. Call250-7653. 248-760-1767 @ 856-968-4565/856-404-1970 THE OBSERVER. else is going? 
Thursday, September 8, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
City agrees to Colts' nevv stadium in '08 
Assm:iatcd Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis Colts and the state board overSIH~ing eon­st.rud.ion of a new downtown stadium havn reaehnd an agroement doaring the way for work to start on the $500 million project, a state sona­t.or said Wed nosday. 
The doal is expeetod to be formally announced Thursday by tlw Indian a Stadium and Convention Contor Building Authority, said Senate Tax Committee Chairman Luke Kenley, H­Noblesville. 
Kenlo·y said the biggest hurdle in negotiations was a proposed $3 per ticket tax for Colts games, which is not included in the deal. The tieket tax . would have brought in about $2.5 mil­lion, and Kenley said ollieials wanted to make sure they would have enough money without it to cover expenses. 
"The revenue sources have enough of a cushion that they will probably be all right," Kenley said. 
Colts spokesman Craig Kelley said he did not imme­diately know about any plans to announce a stadium deal with the state. 
An agnwnwnt between the Colts and the state was the last significant step prevent­ing major work from starting on the 63,000-seat rotraetabln-roof stadium, which is slated to be eom­pletnd lwl'ore the ZOOS NFL soason. 
Konley, a nonvoting mom­ber ol' the state stadium board, said he believed that the stadium would be fin­ished on time even though eontinued negotiations pre­vented the planned Aug. 1 ground breaking. 
The team and the city announced an agreement last week on a new stadium lease · that will keep the team in Indiana polis for at least the next 30 ynars. The state is overseeing construction ol' the new stadium. but it will be operated by the eity. 
Demolition work already has started IHHtr the HCA Dome to make room for the new stadium. 
The state Legislature had authorized the ticket tax, but the Colts argued against the it, saying that tieket 'holders already pay a 5 percent admissions tax, which is going up to 6 perecnt. 
The team will pay $100 million toward the stadium, with the other-80 pereent of the cost coming from restau­rant taxes in central Indiana. as well as on hotels and rental cars in Marion County. 
Several counties surround­ing Indianapolis have approved a new 1 percent food and beverage tax, and Marion County raised its restaurant tax from 1 per­cent to 2 percent to help finance the project, which also ineludes expansion of the downtown convention center. The suburban coun­ties will keep half the money raised by the tax with the rest going toward the stadi­um project. 
Moss poses challenge to Pats 
Associated Press 
FOXBOHOUGH, Mass.-The New England Patriots marvel at the talent of Handy Moss. They'll see it up close Thursday night when the receiver who grabs 
attention  as  well  as  passes  
makes  his  debut  with  the  
Oakland Haiders.  

Yet if anyone should know that one star can't win a game by himself it's the Super Bowl champions, who built their suc­cess on the team concept. 
"We played a team similar to that before in Philadelphia and Terrell Owens is one of those players, dynamic players that can change the game," line­backer Willie McGinest said, "and I don't think one guy can control everybody else." 
Owens caught nine passes for 122 yards in the Super Bowl 6 1/2 weeks after ankle surgery, but the Patriots beat the Eagles 24-21 for their third title in four years. 
Thursday night's NFL opener begins the Patriots' quest to become the first team to win three consecutive champi­onships. · 
In March, the Raiders obtained Moss from Minnesota, where he averaged 82 catches for 1,3p6 yards and 13 touchdowns in seven seasons, although he was slowed by a hamstring injury last year. 
His rare combination of speed, jumping ability and excellent hands drew raves from the Patriots. 
"lie doesn't really have any real weakness," coach Bill Belichiek said. 
"lie's a special player," line­backer Chad Brown said. "He can do things no other player can. I've actually had him come 

The technologies we create define leading-edge. So do our opportunities. Join Raytheon, one of the world's most admired defense and aerospace systems suppliers, and apply your mind in ways that you've always thought possible. 
Advance engineering with a diversity of people and talents. Take on challenges that defy conventional thinking. And meet us at the forefront of innovation. 
www.rayjobs.com/campus 
I /OOS ~,J\1~ ( :mpllf"'' AJ: 11~1<.11 INM'<J l(.)yt~ ~~ 3r1 ~JII 09P'l'C.:mlV .tn!l dff••nuti~~C­if' ll~l • l~ ~11rJ ..,.tl'"""l .t ,.Kho dMhll~ ··~ 6f>i'l,~.o\lll' U~ fjll!~1l\ll<fll11ff'l tll' f<'!~J:t\'fJ 
Visit our Career Fair Booth on Sept. 13, 2005 
Opportunities are available in the following areas: 
Comp_uter Sci~nce JComputer E_ngineer~ng I . Electncal Engmeenng IMechamcal Engmeermg I Math IPhysics IOptics ISystems Engineering I Aeronauttcal Engineering ISoftware Engineering 
Raytheon 
Customer Success Is Our Mission 

around on a reverse on me. My job is to contain him and it was a little frightening." 
The Patriots have managed the past two seasons to handle teams with exceptionally talent­ed individuals. They're 34-4 in that stretch, including 6-0 in the playoff.<>. 
"The type of character we have around here, guys don't quit," McGinest said. "Guys play hard and they look forward to chal­lenges like that." 
The Raiders were 5-11 last year and 4-12 in 2003, but made it to the Super Bowl the previous season and lost to Tampa Bay. 
Moss is just part of the chal­lenge posed by the Oakland offense. There's also quarterback Kerry Collins' strong arm and running back LaMont Jordan's chance to show he can be a pro­ductive starter after four years as Curtis Martin's backup with the New York Jets. 
"LaMont's impact could be the key for us," Collins said, "could give us that balance that we lacked to make def(msns play us a little more honestly." 
That would make the eombina­tion of Collins, who has thrown for more than 3,000 yards the past five seasons, and Moss even more dangerous -as long as Moss' tendency to draw attention to himself and his controversial comments and actions don't get in the way. 
He said last month he had used marijuana but "it's in the past." lie was fined $10,000 last season for pretending to pull down his pants and moon the crowd in Green Bay during a playoff win by Minnesota. And he was criti­cized for leaving the lield with 2 seconds left in a regular-season loss to Washington. 
Collins thinks coming to a now team can be "a rebirth" for Moss. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 8, 2005 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Texas' Young is early season Reisman hopeful 
Longhorns' standout begins year Saturday visiting Ohio State 
Associated Press 
AUSTIN, Texas -Vince 
Young calls it the Texas Two­
Step. 
A quick fake followed by a 
burst of speed and the Texas 
quarterback is past a defend­
er and dancing all the way to 
the end zone. 
At 6-foot-5, 233 pounds with 
4.4 speed, he's the most dan­gerous running quarterback in the country. In Texas' 38-37 Rose Bowl win last season, he ripped off dazzling TD runs of 20, 60, 10 and 23 yards, leav­ing Michigan defenders punching the air in frustration or bent over gasping for breath. 
Now a top contender for the Heisman Trophy, Young leads No. 2 Texas back into Big 10 country for Saturday night's matchup with No. 4 Ohio State. The glamour non-con­ference game of the season is the first meeting of the elite programs and has national title implications just two weeks into the schedule. 
"It's going to be a game you'll always remember," Young said. "I sense a great opportunity for our team." 
And for himself. 
Stoking the flames of this 
blockbuster matchup, Ohio 
State players have said they 
want to knock Young out of 
the Heisman chase. 
"Our goal is when Vince Young leaves here, he won't be a candidate for the Heisman," said Ohio State linebacker Bobby Carpenter. 
''I'm not too much getting into the Heisman right now," Young said. "It's all about my teammates right now. Whatever they want to say, let them talk, man." 
Young has been talking to his teammates about this game for months. When the players trickled back to cam­pus ·for summer conditioning, he left them a written mes­sage in the locker room: "If you want to beat Ohio State, meet me here every night at 7 p.m." 
He is now the undisputed 
leader of a Texas team 
searching for its first outright 
national title since 1969. The 
Longhorns shared the title in 
1970. . 
"This is Vince's team," said 
defensive end Tim Crowder. 
That's partly because tail­
back Cedric Benson, the fifth­
leading rushing in major col­
lege history, is now in the 
NFL, leaving Young to shoul­
der the national title hopes. 
Young, who was nearly benched after two poor games midway through last season, has embraced his role as leader. He took charge of sum­mer passing drills. This week, he's made the rounds urging teammates to practice hard, pushing them to be perfect. 
''I'm the guy, and I'm going to be the leader," Young said. "That's my role." 
He's even talked about quar­terbacks he thinks weren't up to the job. At the Big 12 media days, he criticized former Oklahoma QB Jason White ­the 2003 Heisman Trophy winner -for what he consid­erect a lack of leadership in the Sooners' loss to Southern California in the national title game this past January. 
"As a leader and as a quar­terback, you've got to keep everybody in the game," he said. "Jason White should have done more." 
He's taken his charge to the coaching staff as well. 
Young was part of a group of players who went to coach Mack Brown and urged him to listen to some hip-hop music the players like. Brown says he downloaded the music him­self into his iPod digital music player. 
"I was telling him sometimes what 50 Cent be saying, it's similar to some of our guys' 
Brown has watched Young mature as a player and a leader, which makes him more comfortable as a coach to let him loose. 
"He flipped the switch and took over our team," Brown said. "It's fun to have a mature guy who's not (just) surviving at quarterback. He's getting better every play." 
Young rushed for 1,079 yards last season, with 14 touchdowns, to go with 1,849 yards and 12 TDs through the air. In a 60-3 season-opening win over Louisiana-Lafayette, he passed for 173 yards and three TDs and scored another on the ground. 
If there's a knock on Young, it's his passing. He threw 11 throwing motion isn't pretty. He throws a soft deep ball, but sometimes gets lazy on the shorter passes, dropping to a sidearm delivery. 
Even so, he completed near­ly 60 percent of his passes last season and was 13-of-15 in the first half of the season opener. Young bristles at questions about whether he's a "complete" quarterback. 
"If you're completing the ball downfield to your receivers, you're a quarter­back," Young said. 
But defenses fear his legs most. 
"Vince Young is definitely the heartbeat of that team," said Ohio State defensive line­man Mike Kudla. "You've defi­
you've almost got to make them one-dimensional and make them throw the ball on every down." 
Even when Young drops back to pass, defenses soon -realize that forcing him into the pocket and keeping him there can be two different challenges. Even Young's teammates sometimes don't know where he's going. 
"There's been a couple of times we got caught standing around and he's still back there running," said tackle Justin Blalock. "It gives us a lot of confidence to know there's a playmaker back there. 
"When the chips are down," Blalock said, "he can pull 

r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, September 8, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
Browns look to Crennel for leadership, success 
Associated Press after former owner Art Modell moved thorn to Baltimore and 
CLEVElAND--With a whistle six years since their expansion hanging from his sweat-soaked minearnation, the Browns, once rwck, Browns lirst-year coach one of the league's giants, are Homno Crnnnel hogan his post­only a few months removed praetien rwws confnmnen during from bottoming out. training camp with a quick Since liJIJIJ, they've lost a weatlwr report. league-high (J6 regular-season 
"Nien, warm sunny day," he games, changed coaches three said, smiling. ")low's nveryone timns, nndurnd innumerable doing'!" personnel moves and gutted 
Finn, thanks. In July and their front ofTiee. There have August, Clevelanders usually been eostly injuries, blown draft fnnl pn~tty good about life in picks and assorted ol'l'-the-field nortlwast Ohio --and the disruptions, the latest being Browns. But in Septmnber the Kellnn Winslow Jr.'s season-end­dimate changes, football season ing motorcyde crash. arrives and the wind ofT Lake To some fans, Cleveland's l·:rie oll'ers a chilling reminder of three years without the Browns colder. harsher days alwad. wore better than the past six 
Cnnmnl sm1sns them coming. watching them. 
Just days beforn making his "It has made me siek," otl'en­NFL !wad coaching debut aftnr sive tackln Hyan Tucker said. 24 years as an assistant, New "Losing stinks worse than any­1\ngland's l'ormnr defensive thing, man. I'm tired of it." coordinator insists he's still As was owner Handy Lerner, enjoying being the man in who along with team president charge of reviving tho Browns. John Collins, hired general man­generation of Browns fans out on the field. lie and Savage have Crennel isn't expiH:ting die-hard 
"Sure, so far," Crnnnel said. ager Phil Savage away from the there," Savage said. "They overhauled the roster, getting Cleveland fans to be very patient "Tlw honeymoon is still going Havens, stripped Crennel from haven't enjoyed the feel-good rid of 22 players who made at with him. right now. Ask rnn in a couple the Patriots and changed almost atmosphere of having a quality, least one start last season. The "They want to win," the 5H­wonks, and tlw answer may be everything about the Browns winning product. That is really club will opnn 2005 with 26 new year-old said. "Everyone in the dill'nn ml." but their orange helmets. our objective." faces--10 rookies. NFL wants to win. Like I told the 
No doubt. Because 10 years "In my opinion, there's a lost Crennel's job is to !ix the mess The coach is new, too. But team, this is a nnw beginning. If 
NFL 
Indianapolis' defensive schemes challenge Simon 
his first full praetiee with the rest He skipped all of Philadelphia's it and not have to worry about Tripplett, a second-round piek
Ex-Philadelphia star 
of the team Wednesday after­minicamps and its training camp anything." in 2002, started ew~ry game two noon. and agreed to a five-year deal Coach Tony Dungy listed years ago, but was a reserve last
running out of time 
He still doesn't know how with the Colts with-Simon behind season. He said he wasn't wor­before start of season much playing time he'll see dur­in days after the starter Larry ried about losing his starting ing the opener Sunday night at Eagles released "I feel like Tripplett at left spot again to Simon. Associated Press Baltimore. him. tackle and said "Just having a player or his
Superman. I feel 
"We're going to roll and see Since then, he's Simon would capability, I'm excited to be
like I could go all
INDIANAPOLIS The what happens," Simon said. "I been scrambling to probably be on the around him," Tripplett said. ''I'm Indianapolis Coil'> playbook is as feel like Superman. I feel like I familiarize himself day. But that's not field for 20 to 30 taking this as a learning expnri­important to Corey Simon as his could go all day. But that's not with the plays on Sunday. ence. I know he's a good football
my deal [to 
helmet or pads. my deal Ito decideI." Indianapolis defen­"lie did fine," player and ready to go, so I
decide]."
The lbrrner Pro Bowl defensive Simon was the Eagles' first­sive schemes. Dungy said after wouldn't be surprised if we saw tackle, signed last week after he round pick and the sixth overall "I think I'm doing Wednesday's prac­a lot of Corey on Sunday." was rnleased by Philadelphia in selection in the 2000 draft. In really well," he Corey Simon tice. "lie's really Quarterback Peyton Manning a eontraet dispute, is hurriedly live seasons with Philadelphia, said. "It's different learning what we said Simon's presence on
Colts' defensive end 
trying to learn the CoiL<;' system, he had 270 tackles and 32 sacks, than I played in do very quickly. defense will likely help the as well as get back into football but he would not sign a one-year Philadelphia, not He's a big power­offense, too. shape. lie went through a couple franchise tender the Eagles as much blitzing and things of ful guy, something we had not "Coach Dungy's philosophy is brief walkthroughs Monday and oll'nrnd him because he wanted a that sort, so you're able to really had inside. I think it's going to to get the best players out Wednesday mornings and had long-tnrm contract. pin your ears back and get after help us." there," Manning said. "Thn more 
good players we ean get on this team. the better we'll be as a team. Corey's a veteran, he's a player who has made big plays in his earner, he's used to win­
Summer Internships in Mexico 
I 
ning." The Colts, 0-5 in their first winless preseason sinee 1990,
Notre Dame-Universidad de Guadalajara 
used few starters in those games. Several players, indud­
I 

ing centnr Jell' Saturday, missml
USAID Program for Small Agricultural Producers 
the entire preseason with injuries. 
''I'm ready to get back," said Saturday, who was sidnlilwd by a hamstring injury. "I probably
What: Team Presentations of Summer 2005 
could have eonw back a whiln ago, but it just wasn't quite ready."
projects (with reception to follow) 
Another player expected to return is receiver Brandon 
Stokley, who missed the presea­son with a shoulder injury. Stokley, one of three Colts 
Why: Opportunity for NO students to work with 
Mexican students in agribusiness projects 
receivers with at least 1.000 yards and 10 TD eatelws last snason, returned to practien
When: Thursday, September 8th, 
Monday and expncts t.o play against the Havm1s. 
"Hight now it looks that way," he said. ''I'm just waiting for a coach's deeision.... But it's as 
3:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m. 
Where: C-1 03 Hesburgh Center 
good a time as ever to try it out. It feels good. It's eitlwr going to be healthy or it's not, so it's timn to play football." 



OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, September 8, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVKES page 20 
NFL Preseason Standings 
AFC East 

team NY Jets Buflalo New England Miami  record 3·1 2·2 2·2 1·4  perc. .750 .500 .500 .250  PF 89 63 80 78  PA 53 54 80 105  
AFC North  
team Cleveland Pittsburgh Ballimore Cincinnati  record 3·1 3·1 2·2 2·2  perc. .750 .750 .500 .500  PF 74 86 64 92  PA 56 68 62 67  
AFC South  
team Jacksonville Houston Tennessee Indianapolis  record 2·2 1-3 1·3 0-5  perc. .500 .250 .250 .000  PF 74 56 71 72  PA 84 96 78 143  
AFC West  
team Denver San Diego Oakland Kansas City  record 4·0 2·2 1·3 0·4  perc. .764 .654 .543 .432  PF 113 87 59 73  PA 80 74 63 101  
NFC East  
team Dallas NY Giants Philadelphia Washington  record 3·1 3·1 2·2 1·3  perc. .750 -.750 .500 .250  PF 77 83 92 64  PA 52 55 106 88  
NFC North  
team Minnesota Chicago Green Bay Detroit  record 3·1 3·2 2·2 1-3  perc. .750 .600 .500 .250  PF 90 86 41 50  PA 81 86 78 75  
NFC South  
team Atlanta Carolina Tampa Bay New Orleans  record 4·1 2-2 2·2 1-3  perc. .800 .500 .500 .250  PF 107 89 89 64  PA 72 78 68 95  
NFCWest  
team Arizona St. Louis San Francisco Seattle  record 3·1 3·1 2·2 2·2  perc. .750 .750 .500 .500  PF 75 102 82 88  PA 74 85 80 73  

MIAA Women's Soccer 
Overall Standings 
team record points GF GA Calvin 2·1·0 6 9 3 Hope 2·1·0 6 3 1 Tri-State 2·1·0 6 8 6 Alma 1·0·1 4 1 0 ST. MARYS 1·2·0 3 4 8 Kalamazoo 0·1·1 1 2 4 Adrian 0·2·0 0 2 10 Albion 0·2·0 0 1 7 Olivet 0-3·0 0 3 12 
around the dial 
NFL 

Oakland at New England 9 p.m., ABC 
MLB 

Florida at Washington 7:05p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS US Open Day 11 Coverage 11 a.m., 7 p.m. USA Network 
MLB 


Associated Press 

OAKLAND, Calif. ­Seattle Mariners rookie Mike Morse was suspend­ed 10 days Wednesday for violating baseball's steroids policy, and said he was still being punished for an "enormous mistake" he made in 2003 . 
Morse became the ninth major league player penal­ized under the sport's tougher drug rules. 
He hit a go-ahead single in the seventh inning for a 3-2 win over Oakland on Tuesday, and on Wednesday the grievance by the players' association to overturn the suspension was denied by arbitrator Shyam Das. 
"This result is unfair and unfortunate. It punishes Michael Morse again for conduct for which he has already been punished," said Michael Weiner, the union's general counsel. 
"The PA does not believe the parties ever intended for the Basic Agreement to compel such a harsh result." 
Morse, 23, was batting .287 with three home runs and 23 RBis in 209 at-bats since being called up from Triple-A earlier this sea­son. 
The infielder-outfielder was acquired last season in the trade that sent pitcher Freddy Garcia to the Chicago White Sox. 
"We think you cannot evaluate a program based on the results of a single case, that overall, the rules that we negotiated are designed to be strict but fair with the overall goal being to deter use," said Rob Manfred, executive vice president of labor relations in the commis­sioner's office. "To the extent that anyone dis­agrees with the result in a particular case, it might be the result of our desire to deter use." 
In a statement before Wednesday's game against the Athletics, Morse apolo­gized to "the fans, my teammates, the Mariners organization, baseball and to my family," and he offered an explanation. 
"Back in November 2003 when I was 21 years old, I made an enormous mis­take in my life: I took steroids while in the minor leagues," he said. "My thigh muscle, which I had previously torn, had never healed and I was scared that my career was over. I was desperate and made a terrible mistake which I deeply regret. 
"In May 2004, I was pun­ished and suspended, which I deserved." 
IN BRIEF 

Big 12 coaches satisfied with instant replay 
DALLAS -Nebraska coach Bill Callahan was one of the staunchest proponents for instant replay in the Big 12. He still is, even after five plays were reviewed in the Cornhuskers' season opener. 
"They were possession calls and boundary calls and things of that nature. I think it was well done," Callahan said. "The calls were well­represented and logically thought out before they pulled the trigger and asked for a replay. What occurred was valid, was logistical." 
There were eight Big 12 home games in which instant replay was used for the first time last weekend. There were seven plays reviewed, the five at Nebraska and one each in the Texas and Oklahoma games. 
Two calls were overturned in the Cornhuskers' 25-7 victory over Maine on Saturday. An interception by Maine's Daren Stone was called 
good after initially ruled an inc om­plete pass. Tressel undecided on starting quarterback 
COLUMBUS-Sometime before No. 4 Ohio State meets No. 2 Texas on Saturday night, Buckeyes coach Jim Tressel must decide who will be his starting quarterback. A lot of people will be watching closely, reading a lot -maybe too much -into what is behind his decision. 
On one hand is Justin Zwick, the steady starter from last week's 34-14 beating of Miami (Ohio), a bright kid who quietly lends direction to the offense. 
He's got a good but not great arm and at 6-foot-4 and 225 pounds will never be mistaken for an Olympic sprinter. He is dependable, not spec­tacular. 
On the other is Troy Smith, the star of last year's upset of No. 7 Michigan whose name has been linked to NCAA investigations ever since. 
NBA stars to play charity game for Katrina victims 
HOUSTON-LeBron James, Kobe Bryant, Dwyane Wade, Kevin Garnett and other NBA stars will play in a game Sunday in Houston to benefit Hurricane Katrina relief efforts. 
TNT basketball analyst Kenny Smith organized the game at the Toyota Center. It will start at 5 p.m. EDT and will air on TNT at 11 p.m. EDT. 
Organizers said Wednesday that participating players will donate money and supplies valued at more than $1 million to aid Katrina vic­tims. 
Players are scheduled to hand out truckloads of supplies to shelters across the city before the game. 
Other players set to play include: Steve Francis, Sam Cassell. Jermaine O'Neal, Ron Artest, Stephon Marbury, Chauncey Billups, Paul Pierce, Lindsey Hunter, Alonzo Mourning and Charles Oakley. 
Thursday, September 8, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NFL 
Robinson receives second chance with Vikings 
Ex-Seahawks wideout currently in alcohol treatment after being released by Seattle 
Associated Press 
EDEN PHAIHIE, Minn. ­Stuck in an aleohol treatment center in South Carolina, Koren Hohinson wasn't sun~ where his life was headed. 
OvPrconw with anxiety, guilt and mnbarrassment, Hobinson triml to figure out how he went from ninth overall draft pick in 200 I to sitting on the brink of 1:arecr ruin. 
Then tlw phone rang. 
Vikings eoaeh Mike Tice was on the otlwr end and. aftnr a fow mnversations, Tiee told the Lroubl1~d young receiver that he may have a second chance waiting for him in Minnesota when he cheeked out of rehab. 
SuddPnly, Hobinson had hope. 
"To have someone like Coach 'lko call you and say they'll give me an opportunity once you get out of tlwm, it's that much bet­tN to go in and do what you havo to do and get out of there," Hobinson, his voice quivering a bit. "It gives you motivation to got evorything handled, because you havn sorneonn waiting on . you when you get out. In any situation, any aspect of your lifo, to be wanted fenls good." 
Hobinson signed with the Vikings on Tuesday. Now the former North Carolina State star is looking to resurrect a earner -and a life -that was overwhelmed by the tempta­tions of pro football during his four years in Seattle. 
Hobinson pleaded guilty in .July to drunken driving and had all but one day of his yearlong sentence suspended. He has a Sept. 14 court date stemming from the charge, but the Vikings 
arc confident his troubles with 
alcohol are behind him. 
IJe was cut by the Seahawks, three seasons after showing so much promise when he caught 7H passes for 1,240 yards and five touchdowns. 
"I definitely got caught up in the NFL lil"estyle," Robinson said. "That didn't get me where I wanted to go, where I wanted to be. I had to do something else, man." 
Hobinson cheeked into the treatment facility and spiraled into a pit of self-doubt. 
"It was tough," Hobinson said, swallowing hard, his eyes welling up with tears. "I was afraid, I was scared. The fear of the uncertainty, not knowing if I was ever going to get the oppor­tunity to play ball again. Knowing that I had to do some things to get myself right, per­sonally, as far as being a better father, a better son, a better brother. I felt like I had to get that right first and foremost before any of the football things. 
"I felt like I was embarrassing my family. My parents didn't raise me like that, for the things I was doing. They didn't raise me like that. It was time for a change." 
A player with Hobinson's speed and talent will always get a second chance. That it came with the Vikings, who dumped Handy Moss in the offseason because they were tired of the distractions he created, came as a mild surprise. 
"Koren Hobinson is a guy who · has such great ability," quarter-back Daunte Culpepper said. "His off-the-field things, every­body goes through something to get where they want. We have to welcome him and embrace him and hope that he under­stands the importance of him being successful and doing the right thing." 

Easing the transition will be cornerback Brian Williams, a 
DRAFTING DIVERSITY ENHANCING OUR CULTURAL COMMUNITY 
A Leadership Training Retreat Friday-Saturday September 30-0ctober 1 
close friend of Robinson's from their days at North Carolina State. Williams encouraged Tice to pursue Hobinson and vouched for him on a personal level. 
Now it's up to Robinson to prove his friend right. Wearing No. 18, Robinson is currently listed as sixth on the depth chart at receiver and Tice said he did not expect him to suit up for at least the first two games. 
"We're not going to rush him because I have some pretty good receivers ahead of him right now who are really com­ing on quite strong," Tice said. 
What ultimately convinced the coach to give Hobinson another shot was his humble demeanor and willingness to admit he needed help. 
"He voluntarily went into rehab and knows that he messed up," Tice said. "You deal with these spoiled athletes and a lot of times even though they've made mistakes and they're caught, they still don't want to admit they need to get some things squared away. I think this young man has done that. I think he deserves a sec­ond chance." 
Hearing that, Hobinson eould only express appreciation and gratitude toward Tice for giving him that chance. 
"Being down there in that treatment facility, man, it just made me renect on everything as far as growing up as a little kid to that point," Hobinson said. "''d been taking a lot of things for granted. I see that. I'm just ready to move forward with my life and my career." 
But he knows it will be a long time before anyone lets him for­get about his troubles, and before he gets a complete han­dle on them himself. 
For now, he's just happy that some sense of normalcy has returnnd to a life marked by too many highs and lows for too long. 
"Very chaotic," Hobinson said,. describing these last fnw months, bnfore pausing to eom­posl~ himself. "It's benn sad, it's had its ups and downs. But J'v1~ learned a lot from it. 
Want to develop retreat leadership skills in a culturally diverse setting? Need to develop the language and confidence when speaking of cultural diversity in the classroom or in private conversations? Need a change from homogeneity? 
If you answered yes to any of these questions, sign up for the DDECC Leadership Retreat today! It's new and one of a kind! 
To register, e-mail Chandra Johnson at cjohnson7@nd.edu. Registration deadline is Friday, September 16. For further information contact Covington Doan (cdoan@nd.edu) or Melanie Berge (mberge@nd.edu). 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry and Multicultural Student Programs and Services. 

ATHLETIC TRAINING & SPORTS MEDICINE There will be a meeting for any Notre Dame freshman students interested in the student athletic training program. The meeting will be held on Monday, September 12th, at 4:15p.m. in the Joyce Center Athletic Training Room. 
page 22 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 8, 2005 
Nine Days of Prayer 
and solidarity with our sisters and brothers who have struggled through the trauma of Hurricane· 
Katrina
' 

A profound word of thanks to the entire Notre Dame comnzunity­students, faculty, and staff-who helped to contribute for relief efforts over the weekend. 
The nine day period of pr'!yer and solidarity 
"\{ 

BEGINS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6 
and continues through 
WEDNESDAy;tsEPTEMBER 14 
6:30 -6:45PM in the BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
Mass on the Feast of Our Lady of Sorrows, Thursday, Septen1ber 15 at 5:15PM, will conclude the nine days of prayer. 

Campus Ministry 
Thursday, September 8, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
USA HocKEY 
Four goalies try out for spot vacated by Richter 
Young netminders vie to replace 1996 World Cup MVP 
Associated Press Not sincn 1994 has a mystery surrounded who would be the United States' top Olympic goalin. Mike Hiehtor was a given, a trun constant for the American tnam once NIIL players starting 
filling out Olympic rosters in 1998. 
It was a simple choice. lie grew up in the USA Hockey program, played in the Olympics as an amateur in 1988 and then won a Stanley Cup with the New York Hangers. lie sealed his position as "the guy" with an MVP per­formance in the 1996 World Cup. 
But he couldn't play forever. 
Now there isn't a clear choice for the Turin Games in February. 
A young crew of four goalies was invited to this week's Olympic hockey orientation camp and all like their chances. 
"These are young kids. This is the foundation," three-time Olympic forward Keith Tkachuk said Wednesday. "You need great goaltending, and that's what we've had over the years with Mike Richter." 
Hobert Esche of Philadelphia is 27 and has the most NIIL experience. He has played 128 regular-season NHL games and helped the Flyers reach Game 7 of the Eastern Conference finals in 2004. 
The other three are 23-year­old Hick DiPietro of the New York Islanders, 29-year-old Ty Conklin of Edmonton, and Buffalo's Hyan Miller, who is only 25. 
"There are going to be some tough choices," U.S. general manager Don Waddell said. "If you watch what we have going on right now with the four guys we have lwre, three are experi­enced NIIL players and one is on his way to what will be a very bright NIIL career. 

"The goaltending end of it, whore it might have been a question a few years ago, I think is starting· to answer 
itself.  I  think  it  will  be  a  
s,trength,  for  us  come  
hbruary.  


AITHPbiNT 
Thursday, September 8, 2005 
... 


-LIVE IT!! 


Next time you are at mass on campus and hear beautiful organ or piano playing, it would be worthwhile to look at the face behind the piano because it may very well be Eleanore Strong. Eleanore is a senior, Howard Hall resident and organ major who has been very generous with her time and talents since arriving here on Campus. Students at the MBA and Keenan Hall masses have enjoyed Eleanore's expert organ and piano playing since her arrival on campus. Visitors to campus have likewise been treated to Eleanore's musical prowess at the 10:00 am Sunday Basilica Mass where she sings as a member of the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir. Eleanore balances her participation in these multiple liturgies with her commitment to the psychology experiments she runs as a psychology major. In addition to sharing her talents with the wider Notre Dame community, Eleanore takes time out of her everyday life to be an inspiring example of faith to her friends who have found her to be a wonderful person with whom to share their faith journey. 
Let us know who out there is making a differen~e! Send nominations to Brian Vassel at bvassel(q}nd.edu 
Catholi~ 1}&-A 
What are Indulgences? 
One of the major complaints of the reformers at the time of the Protestant Reformation was the buying and selling of indulgences by some people within the Catholic Church. So what is the deal with indulgences? Are they still around? Indulgences are indeed still a part of Catholic Church teaching and relate closely to the Sacrament of Reconciliation and Catholic theology on the nature of sin and forgiveness. The Catechism of the Catholic Church 
defines an indulgence as "a remission before God of the temporal punishment due to sins whose guilt has already been forgiven (#1471 )." Indulgences are described as either "partial" or "plenary," depending on whether they take away a part or all of this temporal punishment. 
In gaining a full understanding of indulgences, one must examine our Christian understanding of sin and its "double consequence." We all know that sin separates us from God. When we receive the Sacrament of Reconciliation, the priest (representing God and the Church} forgives us of the guilt of our sins. This forgiveness breaks down the barrier between God and humankind, and takes away our "just reward" for sin: eternal punishment. However, as the Catechism clarifies, sin also "entails an unhealthy attachment to creatures which must be purified .... This purification frees one from what is called the 'temporal punishment of sin (#1472}." Temporal punishment can be eliminated through "offering up" the trials and tribulations of earthly life to Christ. Likewise, an indulgence also eliminates some or all of this temporal punishment due for sins. 
One receives an indulgence through prayer and works of charity. Indulgences can be received for everything from making religious pilgrimages, to serving the poor, to praying a rosary, if these are done with the intention of receiving an indulgence. Normally, receiving the Sacraments of Eucharist and Reconciliation, as well as offering prayers for the intentions of the pope, complete the process of obtaining an indulgence. 
Of primary importance here is to remember that our God is rich in mercy, and He is not a heavenly accountant. The forgiveness an indulgence obtains still comes from the font of God'"s endless love and mercy. While some members of the Church tried to profit from the sale of God's mercy, a clearer understanding of sin, indulgences, and God's mercy will hopefully put some of these misunderstandings to rest. 
Sen~ your questions to Brett Perkins at Perkins.26@nd.edu! 

Phone 


Twenty-fourth Sunday in Ordinary Time
1-7800 
Web 

campusministry.nd.edu 
1st 2nd Gospel
Main Office 
Sirach Romans 
Matthew

319CoMo 
27:30-28:9 14:7-9
Retreats Office 
18:21-35 

114 CoMo 
TOniGIIT 9/8 
Irons Sharpens Iron Ministry (lSI) 329 Co-Mo 10PM 

SUnDAY9/II 
RCIA Information Sessions for Candidates, Catechumens, and Sponsors: 330 Co-Mo l-2PM 
Eucharistic Ministry Training (mandatory if interested) Basilica 3:15PM 
Lector VVorkshops Basilica 8:15PM 

monday 9/lt 
Altar Servers Training Basilica 9:00PM 
Tue1day 9/1 S 
1111:1 

Catholic. Fellowship. Here. 
Cavanaugh Hall Chapel 8:30PM 
Topic: The Eucharist with Father Kevin RusS(laU, esc 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 8, 2005 
Titans 
continued from page 28 
with a lot of intensity. We made the needed adjustments in the second half. 
"In terms of the outcome from a coaching perspective, we had players positionally not in com­fortable places." 
The Titans put away their third goal to go up 3-0 in the 36th minute. Midfieldcr Lyndsay O'Brien pocketed a pass from forward Amy Slott past Belles' goaltender Laura llclinc. 
Mackenzie credited llcline with playing a strong game. 
"She made a great effort, han­dled a lot of shots," Mackenzie said. 
Also coming up with strong performances for the Belles were seniors Carrie Orr. Shannon Culbertson and Maura Schoen. 
On ofTense, Carolyn Logan and Lauren Hinton pressured the Wesleyan defense but could not lind the back of the net. 
The last goal for Wesleyan came near the start of the sec­ond half, just past the 50th minute of play, on an unassisted shot from Caroline Leighton (1 goal, 1 assist). 
The Belles had trouble dealing with a quick Titans offense -a team much faster than Saint Mary's customary competition. 
"They made it very difficult for us in terms of trying to figure out a way to slow them down a bit," Mackenzie said. "They were a very technical team, they just played a better brand of soccer than we did tonight." 
The Belles beld the Titans scoreless for the remaining 30 minutes of regulation, making the necessary changes to handle the explosive Titans attackers.This was the last tunc­up before the Belles begin MIAA conference play on Saturday against strong rival Hope College. Mackenzie feels her team will come ready to play and start of their season strong. 
"We have to take two steps back before we take a step for­ward," she said. "We will sort it out. We have the ability to be a really good team." 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
Brewster 
continued from page 28 
week. 
On Sunday night, Brewster collected a career-high 28 kills, also the second-highest total ever by a Notre Dame middle blocker. 
The senior middle blocker has been "unbelievably valu­able to the team right now, the ball more. 
"I think when it's [the match] on the line, she wants the ball," Brown said. "And she just does smart things. It's her experience, her leader­ship, the way she's leading by example. 
"She was outstanding [last weekend]." 
There's not much of a break for Notre Dame -just this week in practice to prepare for another tough tourna­
Brown said. ment.
"I think when [the 
While she had a The Irish will few lapses in her match is! on the travel to San usually excep­line, she wants the Antonio this tional serving weekend for the
ball." 
over the week­University of end, the 6-foot-3 Texas San Brewster gained Debbie Brown Antonio Dome confidence as Irish head coach-Rally in the the matches Alamodome, the went along. site of this year's Already equipped with out­volleyball Final Four. standing talent and work Continuing its already gruel­ethic, she is nearly unstop­ing schedule, Notre Dame pable on offense and impassa­takes on No. 8 ranked ble on defense as matches Southern California Friday at progress. 7 p.m., Oklahoma Saturday at 
Some athletes might tire 1:30 p.m. and No. 6 ranked and fade, but Brewster wants Florida Sunday at 11 a.m. 
Brewster welcomes the challenge. She sees it as an opportunity, and she has no fear of other American Volleyball Coaches Association Top 25 teams -just respect. 
"It is such an opportunity to play a team in the top 25," she said. 
Now, the Irish themselves are in the top 25. They entered at No. 19 this week after their successful week­end. 
The ranking is their highest since Nov. 2003 when they were No. 17. They are 3-0 for the first time since the 2002 season. 
Notre Dame hopes to have sophomore starting outside hitter Ellen Heintzman back by this weekend. She injured her medial collateral ligament in the Michigan match and sat out the Shamrock Invitational. 
As a team with momentum, with a national player of the week and a returning starter, the Irish might be the ones to be feared in San Antonio. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
MLB 
Matsui slams. 400th career home run in win 
Yankees slugger hit 332 homers in Japan 
Associated Press Hideki Matsui's milestone made news on two continents. The New York Yankees out­fielder hit his 400th profes­sional home run Wednesday night, connecting in the fourth inning against the Tampa Bay Devil Rays. Matsui's drive to right-cen­ter off Doug Waechter gave him 21 home runs this season and 68 since joining the Yankees in 2003. He hit 332 homers for the Yomiuri Giants 
of Japan's Central League from 1993-02. 
"The .feeling itself, it is the same," Matsui said through a translator. "I don't really add the statistics that I had in Japan and the home runs here." 
But he did keep the ball as a souvenir. 
"To me, it's not that impor­tant," he said. "Perhaps my father will be pretty happy if I give it to him." 
Waechter retired his first 10 batters before Matsui's homer, his first since Aug. 23 against Toronto's Miguel Batista. But Yankees manager Joe Torre 

doesn't think Matsui had been pressing to reach the mile­stone. 
"Knowing him as we do, I doubt that. he was goal-orient­ed there _ especially getting 
·up in situations where base hits were so important to us," Torre said. "He's too profes­sional, just too good at what he does." 
Matsui also hit a two-run double in the sixth inning, 
cutting New York's deficit to 4-3. He finished 2-for-4 with three RBis, and the Yankees rallied to win 5-4 on Jason Giambi's two-run shot in the eighth. 
"The home run was one thing, but to come back with the double the next time, that was the one that got us back to where we felt we could win the game," Torre said. 
Nicknamed "Godzilla" in 
Japan for his power, Matsui was a three-time Central League home run champion and hit 40 or more three times. 
But after hitting a career­high 50 in 2002, he had only 16 homers in his first season in the major leagues. 
He has 104 RBis this year, his sixth straight season with at least 100 going back to his career in Japan. 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
• 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

• 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student Affairs, 1-7819 

• 
Sylvia Di lion, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasa1ich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

• 
Ann E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
• 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

• 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


.--------------------------------------------;------~ -----------------­
Thursday, September 8, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
PGA TouR 
Canadian Open struggles to attract big names 
Woods, Mickelson, others pull out for a variety of reasons 
Associated Press 
Bt~gard loss of what. happens llw n~st of tlw week, Vijay Singh has alroady given tho Canadian Opnn a hugo lifl -just by showing up. 
With Tiger Woods, Phil Mkkelson and ollwr top players passing up the world's third oldest pro tournanwnt, tho prnsnncn of the defending champion and second-ranked player in the world is huge. 
Singh injured his back a cou­ple of weeks ago playing ping pong with his son and withdrew from last week's Deutsche Bank Championship. Singh's decision to defend his title in the Canadian Open was great news for a tournament short on headliners. 
"Tlw back is line," Singh said Wednesday. "I could have a slight horniated disc, but at my age, the guy says everybody has that." 
Tournament o!Ticials insist this year's field is just fine, too. "I'm always disappointed 
when Tiger doesn't come, but the field is as good as it's ever been," said Stephen Hoss, exec­utive director of the Hoyal Canadian Golf Association, which runs thn tournament. 
Maybe so, but Mickelson, Kt-mny Perry and Davis Love III are among the tour's household names who played the Canadian Open last year at Glen Abbey and aren't here this week. With a few extra spots to work with, 16 Canadian play­ers, including three amateurs, are in the field. 
Part of the Canadian Open's problem is that the PGA Tour schedule puts it right in the middle of a pair of tournaments on the East Coast -the Deutsche Bank Championship in Boston and next week's H4 Lumber event in Pennsylvania. It· also didn't help that the Deutsche Bank's l"inal round wasn't played until Monday. 
Some players apparently weren't willing to make the long trip west after the oxtendnd stay in Boston, then have to travel baek across the U.S. to play jn Pennsylvania. 
"It definitely hurt us," Hoss said of the PGA's scheduling. 
Even Olin Browne, a journoy­man tour playnr who seored a rare win at the Dnutsche Bank, pulled out. 

Stephen Ames, a native of Trinidad who now is a Canadian citizen, said Wndnesday the PC;\ Tour schedule favors tour­naments on U.S. soil. 
"It feels like wn'ro bning kicked back into a secondary category," ;\mns said. "I wish (PG;\ Tour commissiorwrl Tim (Finchern) would look at that. Wn have so many foreign play­ers now that we should sharn the wealth rathnr than just thinking Americans all tho time." 
TENNIS 
Ginepri continues Cinderella U.S. Open run vvith victory 
Unseeded American reaches semifinal  points after a double-fault to love-40 in the 1Oth game of the final set as the two play­ but during the match, the more I serve, the more it gets tight-the forearm, the shoul­ said he was worn out by his live-set victory over Massu two days earlier -at 4 hours, 32  body was hurting. It was hard to keep up the same speed I had. But I gave it all -ran,  
with win over Coria  ers, each wearing white caps backward, engaged in long  der. I knew it could happen. That's just the way it is."  minutes the longest match of the tournament.  tried hard and gave it all I could. He won because he  
Associated Press  rallies. Coria was involved in a tern­ Coria, who missed last year's Open because of a shoulder  "It was a tough break that the match with Massu was so  deserved it. He's been waiting for a moment like this for a  
NEW  YOHK  Robby  pest  with  Chilean  Nicolas  injury that needed surgery,  long," Coria said, "My whole  long time."  
Ginnpri,  an unsung, unseeded  Massu in his previous match,  
Arneriean toiling hard through  but against .Ginepri there was  
tlw U.S. Open, gutted his way  nothing but respect. On  one  
out of trouble and got the gift  point earlier in the fifth set,  
of Guillermo Coria's 13th and  the players gave each other a  
14th double-faults on  the last  high-live at the net when they  
two  points to  reach  a  Grand  combined for  a  particularly  
Slam semifinal for the first  thrilling point  -a beautifully  
limn.  angled drop shot by Coria, a  
Ginnpri,  a  22-year-old who  full-eourt running scoop by  
had  never  gonn beyond the  Ginepri feathered barely over  
third round of tho Open, won  the net, and  a  putaway back­ 
his third straight five-setter  hand half-volley winner by  
against a  seeded player, 4-6,  Coria.  
h-1, 7-5, 3-·(,, 7-5, Wednesday  Now trailing 4-5, Coria saved  
and  guarantnnd  that  an  the second match point with a  
;\nwriean will play in tho final.  backhand, and the third with a  
Cirwpri's opponent in the  brazen overhead  from  the  
somis Saturday will be the  baseline that skipped ofT the  
winner of tho Andre ;\gassi­ top of the net cord.  
.lamns Blake night match.  lie  held  to  5-5  after  one  
"The last three matches took  more long rally.  
so  much out of  After serving  
mn,  I'm  just  his ninth  ace  
dead right now," (;innpri  ''The last three  at 124 mph to hold for a 6-5  
told the erowd  matches took so much  lead  in  the  
as his family, suf'f'nring and celebrating on  out ofme. I'm just dead right now."  fifth set, Ginepri jumped out to  
altornatn  his  fourth  
points, watched from the play­ers' box. llis  Robby Glnepri Tennis player  mateh point at 30-40 on Coria's serve  
sistl~r .  .lenni,  when  the  
took photos as  wearying  
he spokn. "I don't know "how I  Argentine slapped a  forehand  
got through that mateh.  just wide. Nervous, Ginepri  
"I don't know what's going  pulled the front of his yellow  
on right now. I'm a little foggy,  shirt up to chomp on  it with  
a littln dizzy. It's crazy. Crazy!"  his teeth, then tried to close  
Mary  Pinrce,  the  2000  out the match.  
Frnneh  Open  and  1995  Instead, he saw Coria save­ 
Australian winner, advanced to  the point with a forehand that  
her first U.S. Opnn semifinals,  Ginepri stretched to reach but  
boating fellow Frenchwoman  netted.  
;\rn eIin  Mau r n s rn o  (,-4, 6-1 .  Three points later, Coria  
l'inrcn, snndnd 12th, will play  mishit a backhand wide to give  
Friday against the winner of  Ginepri  a  firth match point.  
thn Lindsay Davnnport-Einna  Coria saved that with a  sur­ 
l>enwntieva match.  prising serve and volley. That  
"It's amazing," said Pierce,  was all Coria had left. lie dou­ 
who roached tho Frnneh Open  ble-faulted to set up the sixth  
final in .Juno. "I'm 30, 17th  match point and double-fault­ 
year on  tho tour, and thore's  ed again to lose.  
still firsts for me. That's pretty  Coria said he had been hav­ 
exdting."  ing problems with the nerve in  
(;inepri's victory ovnr the No.  his right hand and wasn't able  
H Coria, the Argentine who  to grip the racket hard.  
was a French Open finalist last  "I  was losing fneling on  the  
year,  took  just  over  throe  hand," Coria said in Spanish  
hours and nndnd with  a  dra­ while motioning with his right  
matit:  series  of six  match  pinkie. "It has been happening  
points.  for four days.  
Coria overcame  three match  "I had  a  lot of treatment  ...  

Thursday, September 8, 2005
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
Hope 
continued from page 28 
ence match of the 2005 season. 
"One head would go down and then another head would go down," Schroeder-Biek said. "That was contagious unfortu­nately." 
The Belles looked strong at the outset, jumping to an ~arly 4-1 lead in the first game of the match. The Flying Dutch quickly responded, though, with a 9-1 run, forcing Schroeder-Biek to call the first timeout of the evening. 
Saint Mary's battled back and cut the Hope lead to 19-16 on a kill-block from freshman Catherine Kurczak. Hope regained control from there, how­ever, and closed out the game with a fimil score of 30-18. 
The second game held more of the same with Hope posting an early 11-5 lead that it would never surrender. Flying Dutch outside attacker Kim Brandes dominated the Belles front line, and Hope easily took the game, 30-21. 
Saint Mary's came to life in the third game. Hope again estab­lished an early 11-5 lead, but the Belles refused to give up on the match and battled back to tie the game at 14-14. The two teams stayed neck and neck until the Belles fmally pulled away in the closing points. Freshman middle blocker Kaela Hellman delivered the final blow for Saint Mary's, ending the game in a 30-27 Belle victory. 
The resiliency shown by Saint Mary's in the third game stood out to Schroeder-Biek as the night's one bright spot. 
"They showed some spirit 
there," the coach said. "They 
showed some heart, but we need­
ed to do that throughout the 
match. We had too much of that 
in spurts." 
The Belles could not carry this 
momentum into the final game, 
however. An early Saint Mary's 3­
2 lead was quickly washed away 
by ten consecutive Hope points. 
Schroeder-Biek eventually called 
a timeout with her team down 28­
14. 
The Belles came out of the time­
out digging their heels in once 
again, going on a 5-1 run to bring 
the score to 29-19. It was too little 
to late, ho~ever, as a kill by 
Hope's Lindsey Schaap brought 
the match to a dose. 
The Flying Dutch attack was orchestrated by junior setter Stephanie Poll, who logged an ·astounding 42 assists and a match-high 24 digs. Outside hit­ters Julie Vanderslice and Kim Brandes caused problems for the Belles all night, recording 22 and 
11 kills, respectively. 
For the Belles, junior Kristen 
Playko led the way with a team­
high 8 kills and 5 digs. Junior 
Amanda David, who is a setter for 
the first time in her career, had 21 
assists and 16 digs for the Belles. 
Saint Mary's next competes in 
the Wooster College Invitational 
this Friday and Saturday. 
Schroeder-Biek hopes that her 
team can learn from· its failures 
against Hope and enter the tour­
nament with greater confidence 
and focus. 
"Maybe this is a good lesson for 
us to see that most sports are 
more mental.than physical. We 
beat ourselves before we walked 
onto the court," Schroeder-Biek 
said. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
Rushing 
continued from page 28 
Irish head coach Charlie Weis said his defense will be prepared not only for a strong running game, but a diverse one, as well. 
"[Grady] holds about every Michigan rushing record there is known to mankind," Weis said. "So you can't just be concerned with just one guy. They could run the ball inside. They could run the ball outside. They could run with speed." 
Weis is not far off in his description of Grady, who holds the Michigan high school state records for carries (1,154), rush­ing yards (8,431), touchdowns (151), scoring (924) and consecu­tive 100-yard rushing games (24). 
When he and Hart are both clicking, that means more oppor­tunity for second-year quarter­back Chad Henne to throw the deep ball -something Notre Dame struggled against last sea­son and still appears prone to, as Pittsburgh exposed on its first series last Saturday. 
"If we're running the ball well, the safeties have to come up, which open up things for Chad," Hart said. 
Minter aims to make Michigan one dimensional in the passing game because he knows when Notre Dame did so last season, the result was an extra stroke in the win column. 
As opposed to 2003 in Ann Arbor, when Michigan ran 54 times to its 24 pass attempts, the Irish forced the Wolverines into the air last September -they threw 40 passes and ran the ball 30 times. 

Against Northern Illinois last Saturday, though the Wolverines rolled, their fifth-year senior left tackle Adam Stenavich felt his group turned in a sub-par per­formance. 
"I felt we were just kicking ourselves in the foot a lot," Stenavich said. "When we'd get down there, and then that fourth-and-one we didn't get, that stopped the drive. 
"Then we had a fumble on the goal line that stopped another drive. We just can't make those mistakes this week against Notre Dame. They're going to definitely capitalize more on them." 
All aspects of football including preparation, adjustments, coach­ing, special teams and others will come into play in the heated rivalry Saturday. But the truth, evidenced by recent and all-time history, is simple. 
When Michigan runs well, Michigan wins. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Annual Drinking Water Quality Report 
University of Notre Dame 
Annual Drinking Water Quality Report 2004 Consumer Confidence Report 
The amendments to the 1996 Safe Drinking Water Act require each public water supply to produce a water quality report titled the Consumer Confidence Report (CCR). Following is the University's annual report for the 2004 calendar year. 
The University's water system is a privately owned public water supply operated by the Utilities Department The University's system provides water to the University community and the nearby C.S.C. properties. Questions regarding the system or sampling resuns can be directed to Paul Kempf, Director of Utilities, 102 Facilities Building, Notre Dame, IN 46556, phone 574.631.6594 or Mike McCauslin, Assistant Director, Risk Management and Safety, 636 Grace Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556, phone 574.631.5037. 
There are currently six wells serving the water system, all located on the campus proper. The water is drawn from deep aquifers surrounded by substantial clay barriers that serve to protect the groundwater supply. We do not believe that our source is vulnerable to contamination. We are also taking steps to ensure that our water source does not become contaminated and are in the final stages of a Wellhead Protection Program. This program assists in defining where the water supply comes from and methods to protect the aquifers from potential contamination. 
The sources of drinking water (both tap water and bottled) include rivers, lakes, streams, ponds, reservoirs, springs and wells. As water travels over the surface of the land or through the ground, it dissolves naturally-occurring minerals and, in some cases, radioactive material, and can pick up substances resulting from animal and human activity. 
Drinking water, including bottled water, may reason·ably be expected to contain at least small amounts of some contaminants. The presence of contaminants does not necessarily indicate the water poses a health risk. More information about contaminants and potential health affects can be obtained by calling the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) Safe Drinking Water Hotline (1.B00.426.479t) or at the EPA's website at www.epa.gov/safewater. 
Contaminants that might be expected to be in source water (untreated water) 
include: 

Microbial contaminants, such as viruses and bacteria, which may come 
from sewage treatment plants, septic systems, agricultural livestock 
operations and wildlife. · 
Inorganic contaminants, such as salts and metals, which can be naturally· 
occurring or result from urban stormwater runoff, industrial or domestic 
wastewater discharges, oil, pesticides and herbicides. 
Organic chemical contaminants, including synthetic and volatile organic 
chemicals, which are by-products of industrial processes and petroleum 
production or can come from gas stations, urban stormwater runoff, and 
septic systems. 
Radioactive contaminants, which can be naturally-occurring or are the 
result of oil and gas production and mining activities. 
Some people may be more vulnerable to contaminants in drinking water than the general population. Persons with cancer undergoing chemotherapy, persons who have undergone organ transplants, persons with HIVIAIDS or other immune system disorders, some elderly and infants can be particularly susceptible. These people should seek advice about drinking water from their health care providers. EPA/CDC guidelines on appropriate means to lessen the risk of infection from Cryptosporidium and microbial contaminants are available from the Safe Drinking Water Hotline (1.800.426.479t) or at the EPA's website at 
~ll.i!Jlov/silfewater. 
Infants and young children are typically more vulnerable to lead in drinking water than the general population. In general, if you flush your could tap until the water gets as cold as it is going to get, you will have eliminated the potential metal contamination. Additional information is available from the Safe Drinking Water Hotline (1.800.426.4791) or at the EPA's website at www.eoa.gov/safewater. 
We have tested for over 150 parameters regulated by the EPA and the State of 
Indiana. Included in these tests were metals, volatile organics, pesticides, 
herbicides. synthetic organic chemicals and cyanide. 
Water Quality Data 

The table below lists the EPA's regulated and unregulated contaminants 
detected in the University's drinking water. All of the contaminants are below 
allowable levels. 
Not included in the table are the more than 150 other contaminants including 
pesticides, herbicides, metals, synthetic organic chemicals, volatile organic 
chemicals and others which were tested and not detected. 
Regulated at Point of Entry (Well) 
Substance ! Highest  EPA's  EPA's  Range  Source of ~ l 
I I Level  MCL  MCLG  ContaminationI 
i Detected  
.,. 
Barium 0.12  2.0  2.0  0.057-0.12  Erosion of natural de  
Arsenic (ppm) 0.0025  0.01  0  <0.0020  I Erosion of natural deposits !  
0.0025  
Gross alpha 3.8  15  0  1.9-3.8  Naturally occumng  
loCI/1.  i  
Gross beta (pCill.) 21.2  50  0  3.2-21.2  Decay of natural and 
I manmadecle"ooslts  
Nitrate (ppm) 0.72  10  10  <0.1-0.72  
!Ru=:r~~~~~:~~~~llc !  


Regulated at User Tap 

Definitions 

MCL: Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL). The highest level of a contaminant allowed in drinking water. MCLG: Maximum Contaminant Level Goal (MCLG). The level of a contaminant 
at which there is no known or expected health risk. Ql1!]); parts per million. !1ll!l; parts per billion. llQill Percentile: 90% of the samples were below the number listed. pCi/L: picocuries per liter. Since 1993, the University has been granted a Standardized Monitoring 
Framework (SMF t ), monitoring waiver. Due to the high quality of the water, the monitoring frequencies are significantly reduced. 
.--------­

Thursday, September 8, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
JOCKULAR 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 
ADAM FAIRHOLM


F-IRST T\4\N<:t 01'\ T\-\E ,ll.<.:tENt>A: ALl 5\'.I.Pit:>, OLt:> YENl>INl1 MACI-\I~~S AV,~ 
SLOV'IL~ BE.tNLI "Ef'L,II.lE.{) '1/'oJ rn-\ Tl-10<£: BAt>A<:.S ONE!) '1/'oJ\412: ~E.. rr (JOE_') AND, Ll \o:.E. (TEn> -n-lf: DR.II'IK SO IT 
toESriT FALL P.LL !14t::­
'-N"'i PO'W N 
HA'5> AN'jON E... C:lo\ AN'j OTHEK COOL lt>E A!!:. TO 
IMI'~O"E NOtRE ~ME 7 1'10? ALF>-t\.:ol.ft 
.l-EtS 60 0\AI":>I DE. ' 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon
Jl!J3WID1ffi 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, 
one letter to each square, 
to form four ordinary words. 
TAP AD 
1 
rJ 

@2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All R1ghts Reserved. 
RUYLB 
j
I rI
tVOXCEN 
WHAT KIND OF OUTFIT DID SHE

J I I 
BUY WHEN SHE 
www.jumble.com 
L-OST WEIGHT?

tEDGERD Now arrange 'the circled letters to form the surprise answer, asJ (] I I suggested by the above cartoon. 

Pr:int answer here: 

"(IIIIIIJ" 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: AWOKE DRYLY QUENCH LIZARD Answer: The outlaws respected the artist because he was-QUICK ON THE "DRAW" 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 In a major way 56 Something a 
1 Org. 29 How some meat student gets back
dishes are served 59 Liable to be 6 Things to pick 
10 Slew 33 Bruin teammate called
14 1998's of Orr 60 Sonoma
Report 36 Go all-out neighbor
15 Brothers' name in 1960's-70's 37 Ste. Jeanne 61 Spanish 
baseball 38 Common girlfriend 
element of 20-62 Scope16 Prefix with 
and 56-Across

distant 63 End 
and 10-and

17 The Reagans' 64 Purplish27-Down
daughter 40 "_Baby" 
65 Last Stuart 18 Thunderbolt 
monarch thrower 
(''Hair" song) 

41 Kid carriers 66 Puts in its place19 Degree 43 1971 rock 67 Antique guns
competitor album with the
20 Where you 
hit "Won't Get

might get a DOWN
Fooled Again"

promotion 1 Puppy love45 Temptress
22 Big name in providers: Abbr. news beginning 
46 Glimpse 2 "60 Minutes" 1925 47 "O.K." 

regular 23 Franken and 49 Cause of 
3 Fills
Gore hearing loss 4 Dog bowl bits
24 Something 50 Prefix with good to shoot center 5 Early American patriot_
25 "Hey!" 53 Insult, comically Attucks 
6 Home of the
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
Latin Church of the Annunciation 7 "Before _ you go ..." a Sensitive 9 Rolled food 
1o Place where people take orders 
11 Somewhat blue 12 Wraps 13 Puts in knots 
21 Lessons at Hogwarts 26 Mouth, slangily 


WILLSHORTZ 
27 It will sometimes 35 Grand finale? 51 Proselytizer's have icing target
36 Chicago suburb 28 "Gigi" composer 52 Apple products
39 Some are sharp 30 Agree (with) 53 Author 
42 Compass Neale Hurston31 Alternative to heading
secret

32 Editor's note 46 Express 55 Superbright
33 1999 satire of reality shows 48"-Dei" 57 Sullen, after "in" 
34 Eastern attire 50 Banned one 58 Send out 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS BAY: Kdly Clarkson. 23; J.:an-Paul Gaulti.:r. 53; Barbra Streisand, 63; Shirley Macl:aine. 71 
Happy Birthday: If you truly hclieve in yourself and your ideas, take the first step to making them happen. A chance to do something big is present. so think about what's really important to you. Make a conc.:rt.:d cflort to change that part of your life. It could be the start of a whole n.:w p.:rsonal and prof.:ssionallif.:. Your numbers are 6. 18. 23. 29, 33. 37 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): A sudd.:n change in your financial situation is appar.:nt. An older relative may pos.: a problem for you. Doth.: best you can to help, but don't let anyone make you feel guilty I(Jr something you have no control over.*** TAl/RUS (Apri120-May 20): Today is all about love, romance and spending time with someone you really adore. You can rely on fri.:nds. relatives or even neighbors to help you out. *** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): You can gel a lot don.: today. Reconsider your lifestyle and make changes to help you look and feel your hcst. You will h.: torn hetween making a change and keeping things exactly th.: same. *** CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): It's time to take a chance and hook up with some different people or take a short trip. Visit someone or allend som.:thing that will get you excited and optimistic ahout making a change. ***** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will have to try exceptionally hard if you want to avoid problems with a loved one or friend. Watch what you say and how you act. Someone may have a change of heart. Prepare to defend yourself. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): This can turn out to he a very exciting day for relationships and partnerships. Open your heart and your mind to the ideas that others have to offer. **** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your mind will be on gelling ahead. A change of direction or taking a unique approach to what you would normally do while at work will be what leads you in a new direction. Discipline will be the key to your success. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Update your looks or take a fresh new look at something you are trying to create. Walking away from something you believe in will not help matters. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): A sudden change of luck is heading your way. Do something to fix up your residence or make it more comfortable. 3 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. I9): Friendship will be important today. A trip that takes you back to your roots will be eye-opening. You shouldn't have to spend too much money on entertainment. **** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. IS): Keep your thoughts to yourself, especially about your home and personal life. The fewer decisions you have to make, the better. A creative idea may be your answer to financial freedom.** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Children and elders may play a role in your life today. You will be a little unpredictable, but that will only draw more interest in you. This is the perfect day to spend time with someone you love or want to get to know better. ***** 
Birthday Baby: You are sensitive, careful and very intuitive. You have charm and integrity and can always come up with a unique solution. You arc gullible and will always give others the benefit of the doubt. You must protect your heart from those who are untrustworthy. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 
-------------------------------------------~-----------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Cmnmunity. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, September 8, 2005 
page 28 
FOOTBALL 

Wolverine rush 
Notre Dame defense aims to keep Michigan offense one-dimensional, preferably off-ground 
By PAT LEONARD Sporrs Writer 

The last time Notre Dame played Michigan in Ann Arbor, the Wolverines ran the ball 54 times. Michigan won the game, 38-0. 
It's no secret Michigan coach Lloyd Carr is most comfortable when his team is running the ball efficiently. Even last Saturday, with Michigan up 27-10 at half­time of an eventual 33-17 win over Northern Illinois, sopho­more running back Mike Hart had 27 carries liJr 117 yards and one touchdown. Freshman back Kevin Grady also had nine car­ries, 42 yards and a touchdown. 
"They always had a great otl'ensive line, so in the last 15, 20 years they started recruiting nationwide and the skill has come on board to give them as much speed as most of the mar­quee teams in the country," Irish defensive coordinator Rick Minter said. "I think it's all about stopping the run." 
see RUSHING/page 26 linemen Trevor Laws, Derek Landri and Chris Frome will be key against Michigan's running game. 

SMC SOCCER 
Shorthanded Belles 
fall to Tilinois Wesleyan 
St. Mary's falls 4-0 to defending national champion Wesleyan 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

Normally, dealing with a defending national champion is more work than most teams can handle, but the Belles' soccer team had other factors at play in their 4-0 loss at Illinois Wesleyan on Wednesday night. 
Due to per­sonnel issues, Saint Mary's was forced to put players in unfamiliar positions, a recipe that created some distress on the field. The Belles never got a feel for the game and despite strong play all around, fell to the highly-touted Titans. 

"Our kids played hard, but Wfl were missing bodies in the first half that would have really innu­enced the game," Belles coach Caryn Mackenzie said. "It was just one of those games that we took on the chin, and we will continue to grow and get better." 
Three of the Titans' goals came in the first half. a sign that the Belles made on-the-fly adjustments to fight back and take control of the game. 
Wesleyan's Katie Kelly opened up the scoring quickly, netting the Titans' first barely into the third minute of the game. Kelly was assisted by Carissa Nemmers on the goal. 
Tina Rodriguez followed that up live minutes later with the Titans' second goal, notching the tally on a pass from Caroline Leighton. The Belles would hold back the powerful Wesleyan attack for nearly the rest of the half. 
"We played a tremendous sec­ond half, had really good ener­gy," Mackenzie said. "We played 
see TITANS/page 24 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Brewster honored by CVU 
Preseason Big East player of the year continues to shine 
By TOM DORWART Sporrs Writer 
It's coaching instinct. 

When preseason All-American Lauren Brewster slips up -which is rarely ­Debbie Brown almost wants to scold her star player. 
But the 15-year Irish head coach thinks twice. 
"I think it's interesting because there are so many aspects of the game, and I wouldn't get down on Lauren for anything," Brown said. "But she struggled with her serving. Usually we get a lot of points on her serving. 
"Both last !Saturday] night and tonight [Sunday, in the Shain rock Invitational], she started off not serving as well as she could have, but then she finished so strong." 
Brewster, the preseason Big East player of the year, had a total of six service errors last 
I MEN NELLA/The Observer 
Irish players Lauren Kelbley, No. 9, and Carolyn Cooper block 
a spike against Arizona Sunday. 
weekend against then No. 11 ranked Texas (1-1) and Arizona State (1-4). But she also had 46 kills, a .310 attack percentage, 10 digs and 11 blocks on the week­end, earning tournament MVP honors. 
She has led the Irish to a 3­0 start this season including last weekend's sweep of their own invite .and a victory over archrival Michigan in the sea­son opener. Her performance landed her in unmatched ter-
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Dutchmen get best of the Belles 
Schroeder-Biek says team mental approach was "disappointing" 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sporrs Writer 

Sometimes your head just isn't in it. 
Belles coach Julie Schroeder­Hick said that was exactly the case for the Saint Mary's volley­ball team last night at the Angela Athletic Center. Hope College downed the Belles in four quick games: 30-18, 30-21, 27-30, 30­19. 
"It's disappointing," Schroeder­Biek said. "We are capable of so much stronger play. We didn't go into this mentally as strong as we needed to." 
The coach was upset with the low level of confidence displayed by Saint Mary's in its first confer-
see HOPE/page 26 
ritory for a Notre Dame vol­leyball player. 
On Tuflsday, Brewster became the first Irish player ever to be named the CVU.com National Player of the Week by Collegiate Volleyball Update and the sec­ond ever to be named nation­al player of the week by any organization. She was also named the Big East Conference's player of the 
see BREWSTER/page 24 

PGA lOUR Tennis Olympic Hockey NFL 
MlB 
MLB 
LLI Co) 

Oakland at 
Yankees 5 z Tiger Woods and Phil Unseeded American Three young players New England 
Devil Rays 4
Yankees slugger Hideki :3 Mickelson both will miss Robby Ginepri advances vie to replace former 
= 
Matsui hits 400th career the Canadian Open this to the semifinal round of goalie Mike Richter on 9 p.m., ABC 
home run, counting his 
Jason Giambi's eighth weekend. the U.S. Open. the U.S. Roster for the Patriots prepare for 
totals in Japan and the inning homer lifts New
cc 

Turin games. Raiders, Randy Moss as 
=: 
U.S. 
York over Tampa Bay. .opener nears. 
page 25 page 25 page 23 page 23 page 23 page 16 





