
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
STUDENT SENATE 

Community relations letter passed 
an 'elitist' attitude within the Notre Dame student body towards the community of South Bend has lasted too long, and it has boon extremely detrimental to the interactions between the stu­dents and the city of South Bend," the letter reads. "It is imperative that we as stu­dents accept our responsibili­ty to be instruments of change and begin the process of improving the relationship between Notre Dame students and South Bend." 
Community Relations com­mittee chair Nick Guzman introduced the letter, explain­ing its particular relevancy during the past few weeks. 
"With all the stuff' that's 
see SENATE/page 8 

Career Center aids senior job hunt 
By KATIE LINHARES 
News Writer 
With graduation day on the not-too-distant horizon, many Notre Dame seniors havo bogun joh hunting -but not all arn sneking hdp from the Univnrsity­toutPd C:arn•)r Cnntnr. 
Notro Dame's Carnor Conter is viewed as "the best prohrram in tho eountry," said Hobyn KarkiPwiez, managnr or Officn Serviens, in an intnrvinw narlier this ynar. 
This statPnwnt. how•wnr, has not rnsormtnd with a large num­lwr of snniors. 
SPnior Callie Wlwlan, who is Pnrollnd in the Collngn of' Arts and l.nttnrs. is intnmstnd in find­ing a job in thn non-profit sndor. 
"The Career Con tor doesn't have too mueh to ofl'er me," sen­ior Callie Whelan said. "Tho Carner Crmter plaees most of it emphasis on the professional business world." 
Director of' the Career Center Lee Svet•~ said sueh a perception might ()Xist on eampus because the fall career fair attracted many f'inance, consulting and accounting firms to campus to interview students for summer intnrnships and jobs. But the emphasis, Svote said, will shift in thP spring. 
"The fair on Fnb. 1 will attraet a new blnnd of companies, such as public relations and sports marknting firms looking fill" liber­al arts majors," he said. 
see CAREERS/ page 8 


By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
The tempo of Wednesday night's Student Senate meet­ing ran smoothly and quiekly, as senators approved a letter to the student body about community relations and passed resolutions regarding Student Union fiscal policy and outreach to hurricane victims with little discussion. 
The approved letter, which will be sent via e-mail, addresses the issue of com­munity relations, urging Notre Dame students to take the first steps toward improv­ing the relationship between the University and South Bend. 
"The unfortunate stigma of 

Speakers discuss 'freshman 15' 
By LISA SCHULTZ News Wrirer 
Fifty students gathered for a discus­sion about avoiding weight gain in col­lege probably didn't expect to hoar dieti­cians condemn orange juice and praise donuts. 
"I think fruit juice is a glorified soft drink," said Manager of Nutrition and Safety of Notre Dame Food Services Jocie Antonelli. 
Antonelli said while orange juice does deliver vitamins, it is best to eat, not drink, your fruit. She also said that for a sweet food in the morning, a donut has about half the ealories of' a jumbo muf­fin. 
But the focus was not on calorie counting. The focus of "Facing tho Freshman {or Sophomore, Junior or Senior) 15: Strategies to Assess the 
see EATING/page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Stressing levels of language 
College's professors push for proficiency 
By LISA GALLAGHER 
News Writer 
The departmont of' modorn languages at Saint Mary's is no l'oreign territory l'or tlw Collogc's students, who arn requin)d to take at lnast two scmcstnrs of' one foreign lan­guagn to graduatn. 
Still. many prof(lssors consid­nr thn rnquirnment to bn insulli­cinnt and arn pushing to havn the requirmnnnt be orw ol' profi­ciency levPI rather than snat time, said Mana Derakhshani, associato prof'nssor of Froneh and coordinator of tho Frnnch program. 
"Two snmnstnrs of' a language at tho introductory hwel is inad­equatn to roaeh any lew! of' usP­I'ul prof'ieinncy," Dnrakhshani said. 
Currnntly, Saint Mary's ofl'Prs majors in French and Spanish and minors in Spanish, Frnnd1 and Italian. Students internstnd in a major or minor in German may pursue those studies at Notre Dame. 
Along with regular dass ses­sions, studnnts must also spnnd time in the language lab, as spndfind by ead1 professor. 
"Hesearch has demonstratnd that tlw morn one lwars lor rnadsl the languagn one wants to learn, tlw more proficient one beeomns," said Dorakhshani. 
Nancy D'Antuono, dnpartmnnt chair and prol'nssor of' Spanish and Italian, said the lab is 
see LANGUAGES/page 6 


Ex-professor a-warded $67,000 in settlement 
By KATIE PERRY Assistant News Editor 
The former Notre Dame art history professor who filed a federal lawsuit against the University in July 2004 after a denied promotion received more than $67,000 in dam­ages and attorney fees in the case's recent resolution, University officials said. 
Hobnrt Haywood, a former assistant professor in thn Department of Art, Art llistory and Design, sued the University for Family Medical Leave of' Absence (FMLA) dis­crimination and retaliation, age discrimination and retali­ation and for violation of' eon­tract. 
Haywood said the University "misused" the FMLA law, which mandatns employers to grant an eligible employne up to a total of' 12 workweeks of' unpaid leave during any 12­month period if' a f'amily mem­ber is in nnnd of' medical attnntion. 

University spokesperson Matt Storin said the ease was settled under Hule hS of' tlw Federal Hulns of' Civil Proendure, which is a "cost­shifting provision." Huln (JS procedures allow an ol'f'nr ol' judgment to be taken against 
see PROFESSOR/page 9 

Thursday, November 10, 2005 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Goodbye, Miss Notre Da111e 

For about three weeks, Notre Dame was great. 
After that, my life rapidly became a mess of betrayal, boredom, loneliness, disillusionment and disappointment. In just one freshman month, I'd seen Jennifer beyond the glam­
Kenning 

orous facade of 
college life. The 
few late-night con­
Ad Design

versations with my 
Manager

roommate had ended, the novelty of college parties had faded, and the deadline for settling into social arrangements had passed. 
A semester later, the college routine was familiar. I felt less betrayed, bored, lonely, disillusioned and disappointed. My roommate and I ignored each other, I got my homework done, I hung out with a random assortment of people, and I attended a dub meeting or two. 
But, that was it. I was used to col­lege, tolerated college, survived col­lege. 
And despite having fmally "adapted" to my new environment, I still wasn't happy. Was this it? This was the great Notre Dame experience that I was to cherish and reminisce about and give money to for the rest of my life? 
It wasn't enough. 

I wanted friends who didn't begin whispering about me the moment I left the room. I wanted to learn more than how to make money and shotgun beers. I wanted to do things that mat­tered -not just things I needed to check on· my college to-do list and stash away for fond re-telling. 
I wanted to be more than Miss Notre Dame -more than the smart, pretty, white, Catholic, upper-middle class, well-rounded girl from the Midwest­the one who always smiled because a person so lucky could quickly become a disappointment if she had any flaws. 
Three years later, my smile isn't fake. I smile because I found a group of peo­ple that don't want me to be Miss Notre Dame, they want me to be Jennifer. 
They share my hopes, joys, thoughts and fears because they love me. They also want to do something that mat­ters, so they put everything in common for the sake of a real work: building the Kingdom of God. I found the People of Praise. 
Now my life looks radically different. I don't worry about my friends gossip­ing about me or using me. I don't need to be beautiful, brilliant and flawless for them to love me; my friends love me for just being Jennifer. Together, we spend our nights and weekends living diO"erently -living a vision for how the world might be, instead of as a con­stant stream of experiences to collect. We don't need to worry about what kind of jobs to get after graduation ­we've already begun jobs building the Kingdom, with 2,000 of our closest friends. 
Come join us. Come be a part of what God is doing and experience a new way to live. 
Contact Jennifer Kenning at jkenning@nd.edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTION 

The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mis­take, please contact us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU DOING TO SUPPORT THE TROOPS? 

Sara Sabic  Sarah Dubree  Ben Serante  Anna Skoien  Halle Kiefer  Kevin Walsh  
sophomore  sophomore  senior  senior  senior  senior  
Holy Cross  Holy Cross  off-campus  off-campus  Welsh Family  off-campus  
"I pray for  "I send letters  "Wishing she  "Wishing he  "I e-mail my  "Joining Team  
,,them.  and care  didn't have  didn't have  cousin in Iraq  America, yeah!"  
packages. ,  diabetes so she  diabetes so he  and I voted  
could be a  could be a  against George  






Bush." 
IN BRIEF 

The film "2001: A Space Odyssey" will be shown at 10 
p.m. tonight in Browning Cinema as part of the Physics and Film Series. Tickets are $6 general public, $5 facul­ty/staff, $4 seniors and $3 all students. To purchase tick­ets, call 574-631-2800 or visit http://performing arts.nd.edu to purchase tick­ets. 
Allen Sack, a member of the 1966 national champi­onship football team, will give a lecture entitled "The Twilight of Amateurism: Heflections of a Former Notre Dame Football Player" tonight at 7 p.m. in 210-214 McKenna Hall. 
The Notre Dame hockey team will take on Bowling Green at 7:35 p.m. tonight in the Joyce Center. 
Major Jason Frei will be the guest speaker at the Veteran's Day Recognition Ceremony will be held Friday at 4 p.m. at the Clarke Memorial Fountain between LaFortune Student Center and Hesburgh Library. 
As part pf the Saturday Scholar Series, professors R. Scott Appleby, Lawrence Cunningham and Father Richard McBrien will speak at the lecture "A Change at the Top: Pope Benedict XVI." The event will take place at 9:30 a.m. Saturday in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Suite Museum of Art. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
SUNDAY MONDAY 

HIGH 57 HIGH 57 LOW 36 LOW 45 
soldier. , soldier. , 

OFFBEAT 
Zoo elephants enjoy pumpkin treats 
WASHINGTON -Children visiting the National Zoo had a post-Halloween treat Tuesday, and so did the ele­phants, at the zoo's annual Pumpkin Stomp. 
Kandula, a 3-year-old ele­phant, was the first to dis­cover a beach ball-sized pumpkin, which he kicked around as hundreds of chil­dren watched. 
"It looked like soccer," said Isabelle Konitsas, 10. "I didn't know they liked pumpkins." 
"Immediately, the small one went to the pumpkin, but the mom stayed with the hay. It was very cool," said Virginia Lasih, 11. 
The young elephant even­tually smashed the pumpkin and ate it. 
Dr. Mark Edwards, a zoo nutritionist, said the pump­kins are a good source of beta-carotene and fiber. 
"They're about 90 percent water," Edwards said. "They're a member of the cucumber family and are a fruit, not a vegetable." 
N.H. clerk found sleeping with marijuana 
MERRIMACK, N.H. ­Police say a 19-year-old convenience store clerk fell asleep on two jobs this week: minding the store and selling drugs. 
Sammer Gandhi of Nashua was charged with possession of marijuana with intent to distribute after two Merrimack police officers found him sleeping in the store's office with a quarter­pound of marijuana. 
It happened late Monday at a 7-Eleven store after a customer called police to report no one was in the store. 
Police searched the building and say that they found Gandhi sleeping in a back office, with a big bag of pot, a scale and a smaller bag of pot. They say he was packaging the marijuana for resale. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
~ 
...I 
~ 

~ 
<C 
(,) 

0 
HIGH 49 HIGH 36 HIGH 58 HIGH 61
...I LOW 42 LOW 32 LOW 40 LOW 48 
Atlanta 64 1 38 Boston 53 I 32 Chicago 52 I 37 Denver 74 I 51 Houston 81 I 58 Los Angeles 67 I 54 Minneapolis 54 I 37 New York 54 136 Philadelphia 54 I 35 Phoenix 84 I 59 Seattle 53 I 44 St. Louis 57 I 35 Tampa 81 I 60 Washington 55 I 36 
Thursday, November 10, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Leading architect to present tnajor prize 
Special to The Observer 
Quinlan Terry, a leading figure in the revival of clas­sical arehitedure. will pres­ent the 2005 Hichard II. Driehaus Prize lecture at 7 
p.m. Monday (Nov. 14) in the Annnnberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art at thn University of Notre Dame. 
Sponsored by Notre Dame's School of Architecture, the leeture, titlnd "Designing and Building a Sustainable Futurn," is free and open to the publie. Terry, who is prineipal of Quinlan and Frands Terry Architects in London, will discuss his notable projects, including the redesign of three state rooms in the historic office and home of the British Prime Minister in Colonial Williamsburg, Va., and the Hichmond Riverside DevelopnHmt in Surrey, England. 
Educated at London's Architectural Association, Terry also was a Home Scholar sponsored by the British School in Home. In 19X4 he won the European Prize from the Philippe Hotthier Foundations and in 2002 was honored with the Arthur Hoss Award from the Institute of Classieal Architecture and Classical Anwriea. llis library at Dow­ning College, Cambridge, was named "Building of the Year" by the Royal Institute of British Architects, and a private residence he designed in Dorset, England, was named "Best Modern Classical House" in 2003 by the Georgian Group. 
Terry's other projects include a series of villas in London's Hegents Park; Richmond House, a Cambridge office building; Paternoster Square, an office block in London; and Brentwood Cathedral in Essex, England. 
The School of Architecture honored Terry's extraordi­nary career in March with the Richard H. Driehaus Prize, which includes $100,000 and a bronze and stone replica of the Choregic Monument of Lysikrates in 
Athens.  Richard  H.  
Driehaus,  founder  and  
chairman  of  Driehaus  

Capital Management in Chicago, endowed the annu­al award to honor a major contributor in the field of traditional and classical architecture. 
The presentation is part of the School of Architecture's 2005-06 lecture series "Architecture and its Allied Disciplines." More informa­tion on the series and the Richard fl. Driehaus Prize is available on the Web at http://architecture.nd.edu. 
War objectors hold politcal s-way 
By PETER NINNEMAN 
News Writer 

The draft, lack of popularity of the Iraq war and football were all topics of discussions at the Center for Social Concerns Wednesday where Michael McConnell, a member of the American Friends Service Committee, spoke. 
The lecture, titled "War and Conscience," dnalt with the legal status of Conscientious Objection (CO), as well as the political influ­ence it can have. 
McConnell cited the lack of popularity of the Iraq war, as well as recent polls indicating that a majority of U.S. citizens do not think President George W. Bush is honest or doing a good job, as reasons why a draft is unlikely to occur right now. 
"I don't think there's a political will or space to declare a draft right now, but draft boards are being organized around the country just in case ... The mech­anisms would be in place very quickly," McConnell said. 
McConnell did note, however, opinions could change very quickly, and a draft could be instated popularly. He recom­mended that even if a person doesn't consider himself to be a CO in the present moment, he should at least document that he was thinking about it. 
If a draft were to be instated, a person could go to a local draft board to make their case of being a CO, and McConnell said that documentation would certainly help a case, although it would provide no guarantee. 
Some forms of documentation that McConnell gave as examples were a journal, becoming involved as a peace activist and having a pastor or professor writ­ing about your thoughts on war. 

McConnell also said that some people write "conscientious objector" aeross their registration card for Selective Service, since the form leaves no means for declaring CO status. The govern­ment, however, does not recog­nize this form of protest and still registers the person for Selective Service. 
The second part of the discus­sion and lecture was about the political influence a CO can and should have. 
McConnell cited the principle that government rules by consent of those it governs. 
"Somehow, we as the people of the U.S. have given consent to this war lin Iraqi ... One way we can end this war is to withdraw our consent." 
McConnell believes that if more people are exposed to the human face of war, they will ehange thnir opinion. lie said that while CNN was showing the statue of Saddam Hussein being torn down, its counterpart, CNN Europe, was showing the statue in a split screen with eivilian vk­tims in Iraq. 
Concern was also displaynd for the efl'ect that war had on the vic­tims of Katrina. In Louisiana, 3,000 National Guardsmnn wnrn overseas, along with two thirds of their equipment. 
Contact Peter Ninneman at pninnema@nd.edu 

Roinn Theanga agus Litriocht na Gaeilge 
The Department ofIrish Language & Literature 
Spring 2006 

Literature Courses: IRLL 40307 -Gender, Politics, The Poetic Tradition in Irish IRLL 40306 -The Irish In Their Own Words IRLL 40305 -Nuala Ni Dhomhnaill & Contemporary Irish Poetry 
Language Courses: IRLL 10101-Beginning Irish Language I IRLL 10102-Beginning Irish Language II IRLL 20103-Intermediate Irish Language IRLL 20203 -Advanced Irish Language Translation 
Information night on Minor in Irish Language & Literature in Great Hall, 
O'Shaughnessy, Thursday, 10 Nov. 8:00-9:00 pm 
.----------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 10, 2005 
address the risks of dieting, it Wasierski, the University "Most females need six to said. "It's very normal and is a measure in preventing eat­Counseling Center's specialist seven grains a day," Wasierski very healthy to snack."

Eating 
ing disorders." in disordered eating, said that said. Antonelli recommended Wasierski said a good snack continued from page 1 The Freshman balance -in both who I e will combine protein and 
15 is not some the foods con­grains, carbohydrates, as the car­Causes and Reverse the automatic phe­sumed and times especial­bohydrate will be a quick Problem" dealt with healthy nomenon, "Most females need of day food is ly the "lt·s very normal energy boost and protein eating habits as part of Eating Antonelli said. six to seven grains a consumed -is Natural and very healthy provides sustenance. Disorders Awareness Week. Rather, there essential. 0 v ens Having good eating pat­
day., to snack.,,
"This program speaks to the are three chal­It is ideal to con­breads in terns is advantageous not needs of a wider group of stu­lenges students sume five to the din­only for healthy living but dents ... not those with eating face they may Anna Wasierski seven servings of ing halls, Anna Wasierski weight loss as well, disorders, but those who not have had to dietician vegetables, s i n c e dietician Antonelli said. However, struggle with concerns about in high school -Antonelli said. In they are she warned against con­dieting, questions about a large variety the dining hall, high in stantly checking up on healthy eating, questions of selections in one serving of fiber. weight. about fad diets," said the dining halls, late night vegetables is a scoop of hot Eating healthy is more than "Scales are for fish, they're Coordinator of Eating Disorder studying and alcohol consump­vegetables or three-fourths of what to eat, but when to eat, not for people." Services at the University tion. a bowl of raw vegetables. She too, she said. Counseling Center Valerie Antonelli and fellow regis-also suggested one to two serv­"You shouldn't go five hours Contact Lisa Schultz at Staples. "However, anytime we tered dietician Anna ings of fruit a day. . without eating," Wasierski Lschultz@nd.edu 

OIN 
Thursday, November 10, 2005 
I'm a Protestant student, but I normally attend Mass in my dorm. Can I receive Communion in the Catholic Church? 
This is always a tough question, and it makes most Campus Ministers ... how do we balance our desire to be welcoming and pastoral to anyone who to Mass (regardless of denomination) with the necessity to hold fast to Catholic 
urch teaching regarding the Eucharist and intercommunion among Christians? On s note, 1"11 try to give an explanation of both sides, and end with a suggestion. The Catholic Church welcomes everyone to the Mass, which the Church lnr<ltP<:<P~ to be the highest form of worship that we humans can possibly give to God. Mass is the re-presentation of the once-and-for-all sacrifice of Jesus Christ 2,000 ago, and at the same time is a celebration of the saving work of Jesus sti II present 
active in the world and in the people around us today. When the Catholic Church 1a"''""'u"'" for worship, she gathers in the name of Jesus, who is Love. In this spirit of and fellowship, the Catholic Church invites anyone who is a member of a Protes­denomination to come forward to receive a special blessing from the Communion 
nister. (You normally indicate this by crossing your arms over your chest, with your on either shoulder. as you approach the Communion minister.) It is the sincere of the Catholic Church that this blessing in the name of Jesus Ch1ist be a symbol love. welcome, and peace, and that it might lead all of us, Catholic and Protestant, nto a renewed effmt to break down what divides us as Christians. At the same time, the Catholic Church has a very specific u11derstanding of Holy Communion is and ·how a person should prepare before receiving it. 1l1e understands Jesus' words at the Last Supper ("This is my body...This is my ..''),as well as His teachings found in John 6, to be the foundational statements the traditional Christian belief that the bread & wine actually become the Body & Blood of Christ. Belief in this '"Real Presence" of Christ in the Eucharist is paramount being a Catholic, but is one of the major beliefs that separate Catholics from Protes­
Even for Catholics, reception of Communion is not a right; one must undertake certain amount of preparation (including an examination of one's conscience for any n, confession, and fasting) before receiving. To Catholics, the reception of the Eu­
. st is also the unifying element of membership in a particular Church (the univer­Catholic Church), such that when a Catholic responds "Amen" to the priest at Holy . they are not only responding "I believe'' to the statement '"The Body of hrist," bur are also responding in faith to all the Catholic Church believes, teaches, 
professes. Thus. those who are not united for whatever reason (whether theologi­cally. morally. or ecclesiastically) with the Catholic Church are nonmtlly not admitted to Holy Communion. the sign of the oneness and unity of the Church's faith. life, and worship. And rather than using Communion as a means of pomaying a Christian 
in reality hasn't yet been achieved. the Catholic Church wou.ld prefer to work nn\>J:ll·,·t~ unity first and preserve the celebration of the Eucharist as a sign of a perfect, ized union. Now. one suggestion: keep attending Mass with your hall community! Our­Communion, go forward to receive a blessing. Pray for the unity of all Christians, . Catholics do at every Mass. Finally, try to enter into a deeper sense of spiritual 1"''"'"'""ion, whereby you unite yourself with the Lord and with those present around through your prayer and the prayers of the Mass. 
Send uestions to Brett Perkins: Perkins.26@nd.edu! 
Phone 
1-7800 
Main Office 
319 CoMo 
Retreats Office 
114CoMo 

Campus Ministry 
Web 
1s one Phox who is in­

credibly giving of her time and talents. 
Mary is a junior who lives in Pangborn 
hall and serves as Pangborn's Social 
Concerns Commissioner. When Mary 
is not studying for all the classes she 
takes as a Theology major, she is busy 
living out her Christian faith. Mary 
has made it a habit of using her breaks 
from school to serve others. She has 
participated in esc service trips to 
Coachella, Appalachia and El Paso. 
This past summer Mary was involved 
with a Summer Service Project Intern­
ship with Missionaries of Charity. She 
will use all of the wisdom she has 
gained from these experiences when 

leads the CSC Border Issues seminar as 
student coordinator during winter 
Mary will lead a group of Notre Dame 
students as they study immigration and 
other related issues that surface 
the United States and Mexico. Mary 
does not just live her faith life in other 
states; she is active in serving the Notre 
Dame community on campus as well. 
Mary helped this year to coordinate the 
annual Notre Dame Relay for Life. We 
at Campus Ministry realize that we are 
especially blessed because she is one of 
our incredibly efficient and joyful stu­
dent workers. We feel very lucky to be 
able to experience Mary's unique 
and spirit just as so many other people 
campus have had the opportunity. 
Let us know who out there is making a difference! Send nominations to Brian Vassel at 









ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, November 10, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Riots lose steam as curfews begin 
PAIHS -The French Hiviera cities of Niee and Cannns, best known for glitz and film fnslivals that attract llollywood stars, wern among areas that imposed curfews for minors Wndnnsday evnn as rioting abated. 
Thn govnrnmnnt toughened its stance against thosn involved in Franco's worst civil unrnst sincn its 196S student riots. Interior Ministnr Nicolas Sarkozy said local ortidals havn benn told to deport the 120 fornigners eonvietnd so far for their roles in the violnJJI:e. 
Although rioting persisted in some places for a I:Hh night. car burnings foil by nearly half and rnports of violence dropped. Nonnthnlnss, looters and vandals def1nd a statn of mnergnncy imposed by tlw govcrn­nwnt Tuesday, with attacks on superstores in nortlwrn Francn and a nnwspapnr ware­house and a subway station in thn south. 
Spacecraft leaves for Venus mission 
I>AHMSTAI>T, Cormany -A Europnan sp1u~1H:ran Inn liarth orbit Wedrwsday on a livn-month. 220 million-miln journny to Venus, an nxploratory mission that muld help spur a nPw space ran~. 
Tlw l·:uropPan Spacn Agency said the unmanned Venus Jixprnss lifted ofl' from tho Baikonur eosmodrome in Kazakhstan, and mission eontrol in Darmstadt activatnd the probn 's instrumnnts and immmliatnly picked up a signal to !warty applausn in the obsnrva­tion room. 
The l·:uropnans thnn roceivnd another signal -a rongratulatory notn from the l'asadnna, Calil'.,-basnd Planetary Soeioty, which had moniton~d thn launch from NASA's Jet Propulsion Lab. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Bush nominates for FCC vacancies 
WASIIINGTON -Presidont Bush nominatnd a Hnpuhlican rngulator from Tennessee and rmwminatnd I lmnocrat Michael Copps to servn on tlw Fndnral Communications Commission, a movn that may only brielly give thn GOP a majority on tlw live-mnmber commission. 
The White llouse announced late Wmlnnsday the president's intention to have l>d}(Jrah Tate fill a vacant Hepubliean seat on the parwl. Copps, whose tnrm expirnd June 30, was rmwminated for a five-year term. 

Miller resigns from New York Times 
NliW YOHK-Judith Miller, the New York Times reportor who was first lionized, then vilified by lwr own newspapf1r for her role in tlw CIA leak ease, has retired from the Times, the paper announced Wednesday. 
Millm, who joined the Times in 1977 and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize in 2002 for reporting on global terror­ism, had been negotiating with the paper for several weeks about her future. She is 
57. 
She spent S!i days in jail over the summer for refusing to testify about her conversa­tions with a eonlidential sourcn. But after lwr release, Miller was criticized harshly and publiely by Times editors and writers for her aetions in the CIA leak ease and for lwr reporting during the run-up to the Iraq war, later discredited, indieating that Saddam llussein possessed weapons of mass destruetion. 
LOCAL NEWS 

IU student's hazing lawsuit settled 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -A hazing lawsuit by a former Indiana University student against one of the school's fraternities has been settled, but the terms are not being diselosed. 
Chase Coslett was an 18-year-old fresh­man at IU in February 2003, when he says his hand was permanently injured during a hazing incident. Coslett also said his Sigma N u brothers tried to persuade him to lie about how he was hurt and later threat­ened him, eausing him to change sehools. 
COMPILED FROM THE 0BSERVElt'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
JORDAN 

Suicide bombers strike hotels 
Authorities seal borders after simultaneous attacks kill at least 57, wound 115 
Associated Press 
AMMAN, .Jordan Suicide bombers carried out nearly simultaneous attaeks on three U.S.-based hotels in the Jordanian capital Wednesday night, killing at least 57 people and wound­ing 115 in what appeared to be an ai-Qaida assault on an Arab kingdom with dose ties to the United Statos. 
The explosions hit the Grand llyatt, Hadisson SAS and Days Inn hotels just before 9 p.m. One of the blasts took place inside a wedding hall where 300 guests were celebrating ­joined by a man strapped with explosives who had infiltrated the crowd. Black smokn rose into the night, and wound11d vietims stum­bled from tlw hotnls. 
"We thought it was lire­works for the wedding but I saw peopln falling to the ground," said Ahmnd, a wedding guest at the five­star Hadisson who did not give his surname. "I saw blood. Thm·e were people killed. It was ugly." 
Jordan's deputy prime minister, Marwan Muasher, said there was no claim of responsibility but that Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the Jordanian-born leader of ai-Qaida in Iraq, was a "prime suspect." 

A U.S. eounterterrorism Islamic militants for plotting Jordanians and that author­was attending a business official, who spoke on con­to carry out attacks and has ities had sealed the coun­dinner at the Grand llyatt, dition of anonymity because also sentenced many mili­try's land borders. where an inli>rrnation tech­the investigation is ongoing, tants to death in absentia, A State Department ol1i­nology conference took said the strong suspicion is including al-Zarqawi. cial said there was no infor­place earlier in tlw day. that al-Zarqawi was Its capital has become a mation on any American "Suddenly, we heard an involved because of his base for Westerners who fly casualties. A Jordanian explosion and the whole known animosity for in and out of neighboring security official, speaking hotel lillnd with smoke, and Jordanian monarchy and Iraq for work. Amman's on condition of anonymity suddenly we found our­the fact that it was a suicide main luxury hotels down­because he was not author­selves outside tho hotel," attack, one of his hall­town are often full of ized to address the media, said a startled-looking marks. Ameriean and British offi­said the dead ineluded at Olderman, who was on the 
In February, U.S. intelli­cials and contractors enjoy­least three Asians, possibly ground floor at tho timn of gence indicated that Osama ing the relative quiet of the Chinese. the attack. bin Laden was in contact city. The first blast was report­"We saw bodies lying as with ai-Zarqawi, enlisting "Obviously this is some­ed at about 8:50 p.m. at the we were eoming out" of the him to conduct attacks out­thing Jordan is not used to," five-star Grand Hyatt. The hotel, said Olderman, who side of Iraq, noted another Muasher told CNN. "We explosion took place in the had been staying at the 
U.S. counterterrorism offi­have been lucky so far in lobby and shattered its Hadisson. "It was pretty cial, who also spoke on con­avoiding those incidents." stone entrance. horrific. We were sitting dition of anonymity. Jordan He said most of the casual­Steve Olderman, a busi­beside a huge plate glass has arrested scores of ties appeared to be nessman from England, window and it just exploded 




Senate Democrats take first aim at Alito 
Associated Press 
opinion in the 2002 case, which was mombers may ask him at tho hnaring 

WASHINGTON -Senate Democrats unpublished. It also seeks any com­about this issue," said Stevnn issued their first coordinated chal­munication "from or to the White Schmidt, an administration leng~J to Judge Samuel Alito's nomina­House, the Justice Department ... or spokesman. tion to the Supreme Court on anyone else on their behalf' concern­Apart from the written requnsts, We~nesday, seeking extensive records ing Alito's decision to participate in several Democrats who have m<Jt pri­about his participation in a 2002 the case, in which a three-judge panel vately with Alito in recent days told appeals case despite a six-figure ruled on behalf of Vanguard and other reportnrs they had raised eonllict-of­investment with one of the defen­investment firms. The companies had issue concerns. "I asked him a lot of dants. been sued by a widow who claimed questions about Vanguard and thorn 
In a letter to the 3rd U.S. Circuit she was denied funds originally are going to be more," said Sen. Court of Appeals, the eight Democrats belonging to her deceased husband. Russell Feingold, D-Wis. on the Senate Judiciary Committee The White House, saying Alito has The letter comes at a time when said Alito had promised the panel in acted ethically throughout his career, Alito appears to be gaining ground 1990 he would "disqualify myself dismissed the suggestion that there steadily in his confirmation eampaign from any cases involving the was something wrong in this case. for the seat held by Justice Sandra Vanguard companies." "Judge Alito looks forward to answer­Day O'Connor, with Democratic critics 
The letter requests the original ing any questions that committee struggling to slow his momentum. 
--------------~~~~~~~~~~~---------------------------------....... 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 10, 2005 

Languages 
continued from page 1 
intended to reinforce the materi­als studied in class. 
"A serious student usually derives considerable benefit from the language lab work," D'Antuono said. "In most lower­level language classes, students are also required to watch one to three foreign language films in the video lab to enhance their command ofthe language." 
Marianne Hahn, adjunct pro­fessor of German and French, said the language lab is useful for students to help master most of the complex aspects of gram­mar and vocabulary. She said a potential downside to tho lab is student interest. 
"I recommend my students go to the lab two times a week for 

"It is rising slowly. All the lan­guages are expanding due to globalization," she said. "We have more students in German this semester than last year." 
Hahn said she is always impressed with the number of students who choose to take German after they have com­pleted the foreign language requirement in a different lan­guage. 
"About 50 percent of my 101 class are seniors and juniors," Hahn said. 
Saint Mary's junior Laura Frechette took two semesters of German last year. She decided to study the language because she lived in Germany for two years. 
"[Germani is not a language spoken madily in America," she said. "We don't border a country that speaks it either." 
Peter Checca, assistant profes­
sor of Italian 
and counselor 


30 minutes "/ think the foreign and coordina­
each," she said. language requirement tor of the "Students will Rome pro-dents choose to study French
is excellent. If it wasn't 
benefit more if gram, said each year, as many have noticed they break up required, I'm sure I student inter­a large number of people out­their time expo­would have never est in Italian side Europe speak the language. sure." has almost Checca said he thinks stu­
gotten involved with 
D'Antuono said tripled since dents' continued interest in
Italian and wouldn't be 
Spanish is the he began in romance languages is because most popular [in Rome] now." 1976. He they are similar to the English language offered, attributes the language. followed by constant rise The College's study abroad
Megan Staley 
Italian, French in large part programs are also extremely and German. sophomore to the Rome popular and afTorded to students 
"A large num­ber of students are now turning to Spanish, which is being seen as a more 'useful' language to learn in the United States," she said. 
Despite rumors, D'Antuono said student interest in German has not declined. 
program, but 

also to the students who did not have the opportunity to take Italian in high school. 
"The Italian department has a very good reputation," said Checca. 
Derakhshani said many stu­who are familiar with the lan­guage of the country in which they choose to study. 
Sophomore education major Megan Staley is currently abroad in Rome. While she said she is not particularly good at learning another language, she appreciates what she has learned. 
"I think the foreign language requirement is excellent. If it wasn't required, I'm sure I would have never gotten involved with Italian and would­n't be here now," she said. "I think most people are prepared enough [with the language! when they get here," she said. "l mean, I'm not the greatest at foreign languages, but I'm get­ting by." 
Checea, Derakhshani and Hahn all said their favorite part about teaching a foreign lan­guage is watching their students become able to communicate in a previously unfamiliar lan­guage and teaching them about different cultures. 
Ape ect meetmg p ce 




throughout the weekend. 
Open Friday and Saturday Dlring 
N.D. Home Football Weekends. 


Everyone Welcome 
J:_ive Music Fridays, 2·6p.m 
Grilled Burgers,Brats, and Other Specialties Cold Beverages 60" Screen TV's 

Fully Enclosed Tent 



631-2000 

N.D. Bookstore. www.themorrisinn.com 
"I take great satisfaction in ... guiding students in their discov­ery of their own cultural identi­ty," Derakhshani said. 
D'Antuono said she sees Saint Mary's expanding in the variety of languages ofl"ercd in the near future. 
"There's no way to avoid it," she said. 
Cheeca cneouraged students to eontinue taking foreign lan­guages. lie said it creates a good rapport between people of dif­ferent eultures. 
"I think that every student should learn as many languages as possible," he said. 
Contact Lisa Gallagher at lgallaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Thursday, November I 0, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 


10,546.21 + 6.49
jones 
•

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volum 1,247 183 l,$f8 1,965,049,110 
AMEX  1,687.90  +9.43  
NASDAQ  2.175.XI  +3.74  
NVSE  7,500.99  +11.27  
S&PSOO  I ,220.65  +2.06  
NIKK£1(rokyo)  14,072.20  0.00  
FTSE IOO(London) 5,439.XO  -21. I 0  

COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ II0 TR (QQQQ)  +0.05  -0.19  40.16  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -0.62  -0.11  17.75  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.33  -0.09  26.96  
JDS UNIPHASE CP ODSU)  +4.46  +0.10  2.34  
INTEL CP (INTC)  +1.02  +0.25  24.80  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  +1.41  +0.67  48.26  
I0-YEAR NOTE  + 1.53  +0. 70  46.35  
5-YEAR NOTE  +1.61  +0.72  45.53  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.39  +0.15  38.77  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  -0.78  58.93  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +5.20  462.30  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  +1.58  92.70  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  117.5350  
EURO  0.850 I  
POUND  0.5736  

IN BRIEF 
Study finds increase in 1V sex scenes 
WASIIIN<;TON -"The OC," "Desperate llousewives" and other TV shows popular with lm~nagnrs gmwrally have morn sex than other programs, a study says. 
TV 1~xeeulivns say they're not pushing sex on ehildrnn and that if' parents don't want their kids to see eertain shows then they have all the tools they need, induding the "oil"' button. 
Aeeording to the study released Wednesday by tho Kaisnr Family Foundation, the vast majority of' TV shows -70 percent -indude some sexual eunlenl, with an average of five sex scmws per hour. On the top teen shows, tho number is higher-6. 7 scenes an hour. 
Tlw study examined programming on ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox, WB, PBS, Lifetime, TNT, USA Network and IIBO. Sexual content could be anything from discussions about sex to scenes involving intnrcourse. 
The number of scenes involving sex has nearly doubled since 1998, the study said, from 1,930 to ;{,78:{. 
Examples of' sexual content cited ranged from discussions of sex on the WB's "Gilmore Girls" and "Jack&. Bobby" to depictions of oral sex on NBC's "Law and Order: Special Victims Unit" and sexual intercourse on Fox's "The OC." 
The study did not offer an opinion on whether sex on TV is harmful to children. 

Industrial park damaged by tornado 
NEWBUHCII, Ind.-Southwestern Indiana businesses are pitching in to IHllp their coun­terparts in a Warrick County industrial park ravaged by Sunday's deadly tornado. 
The Warrick County Hesearch and Industrial Park between Newburgh and Boonville had a dozen or more businesses "dnmolishnd or damaged bnyond repair," Judy Wnathnrholt, nxecutive director of the county's 1-:conomie Development Department, said Wndnesday. 
The a!Teetnd businesses, which are gener­ally light industry, togetlwr nmployed about 200 worknrs. Wnatherholt said, but it wasn't dear Wedrwsday how many may have been idlnd h1H~ause of the storm. 
A trucking company, for example, lost its building, hut was still able to run its semis and rwrl'orm work, she said. 


Oil con1panies appear before Congress 
Executives questioned by Senators for record gains amid high gasoline prices 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Oil 
executives sought to justify 
their huge profits undnr 
tough questioning 
Wednesday, but they found 
little sympathy from sena­
tors who said their con­
stitunnls arn sull'ering from 
high energy prices. 
"Your sacrifice appears to bn nothing," Sen. Barbara Boxer, D~Calif., told thn executives, citing multimil­lion-dollar bonuses the olli­eials are receiving amid soaring prices at gasoline pumps and predictions of morn of' tho same for winter heating bills. 
There is a "growing sus­picion that oil companies are taking unfair advan­tage," said Sen. Pete I>omenici, H-N.M. "The oil companies owe the AmNican people an expla­nation." 
Thn executives represent­nd rive major companies that. along with their global parent corporations, earned more than $32.8 billion during the July­Septnmber quarter. Consumers, meanwhile, saw gasoline price~ soar beyond $3 a gallon in the al'termath of supply disrup­tions caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Hita. 

Lee Haymond, chairman of ExxonMobil Corp., the world's largest publicly ExxonMobil earnnd near­chairman David O'Heilly. would quickly run out )of traded oil company, ly $1 0 billion in the third Haymond said that aftnr fuel) at the snrvicn sta­acknowledged the high quarter. Haymond was Sept. 11 "the industry was­tions." gasoline and home heating joined at the witness table n't concerned about "It was a tough balancing prices "have put a strain on by the chief executives of whether there was ade­act," said Haymond, who Americans' household Chevron Corp., quate supply," as it was said ExxonMobil was not budgets," but he defended ConocoPhillips Co., BP after this year's Gulf prien gouging. his company's profits. America Inc. and Shell Oil storms. By keeping prices A number of Democrats Petroleum earnings "go up Co. higher, adequate supplies have called for windfall and down" from year to But senators pressed the were assured, he main­profits taxes on thn indus­year and are in line with executives to explain why tained. try. Other senators, indud­other industries when com­gasoline prices jumped so Democrats said that dur­ing Majority Leadnr Bill pared with the industry's sharply in the aftermath of ing the storm some Frist, H-Tnnn., havn said it enormous revenues. Hurricane Katrina, when ExxonMobil gas station may be time to enact a fnd­
It would be a mistake, prices at the pump in some operators complained the eral law on priee gouging. said Haymond, for the gov­areas soared by $1 a gallon company had raised the Some Hepublican and ernment to impose "puni­or more overnight. wholesale price of its gas by Democratic lawmakers tive measures hastily craft­Sen. Bill Nelson, D-Fla., 24 cents a gallon in 24 havo suggnsted that the oil ed in response to short­asked why the industry did­hours. companies should funnel term market fluctuations." n't freeze prices, as it did Raymond said his compa­some of their earnings to They would probably result after the Sept. 11, 2001, ny had issued guidelines "to supplement a federal pro­in less investment by the terrorist attacks. minimize the increase in gram that helps low-income industry in refineries and "We had to respond to the price" but added, "If we households pay heating other oil projects, he said. market," replied Chevron kept the price too low we bills. 


Amtrak president fired over debt 
of companies offering regional serv­able or provide information about Associated Press 
ice. how he could be contacted. 
Gunn was offered the chance to Rep. John Mica, H-Fla., said Cunn 
WASIIINGTON -Amtrak's presi­resign; he refused. was fired because of a clash over the dent was fired Wednesday by the Amtrak's board chairman, David board's vote in September to author­company's board of directors, who Laney, praised Gunn's effort to put ize s plitti ng off the North nast said David Gunn did not drive the Amtrak in good working order, but Corridor, an idea the administration debt-laden rail service fast enough said the company's needs went fur­supported. The Washington-Boston toward major changes. ther. service accounts for tho largest share 
Democrats criticized Gunn's ouster "That is not acceptable. We're of the railroad's ridership. and questioned whether the firing more ambitious than that," Laney "David Gunn bucked that idea, so was legal, contending it was part of a said. "We just need to change gears." that was the straw that broke the Bush administration effort to kill Laney said it was a gradually wors­camel's back," said Mica, a member national rail service. ening relationship between Gunn and of the House Transportation and 
As Amtrak's president and chief the board, not any single disagree­Infrastructure subcommittee on rail­executive, Gunn struggled to main­ment, that led to his oustnr. roads. tain service amid a sinking financial Gunn took over in 2002 after hav­"lin's a very capable opt~rational picture and a push by the While ing headed transit systems in New manager, but lw wasn't willing to go House and some in Congress to York City, Washington and Toronto. along with the dramatic changes that transform the railroad into a group Amtrak declined to make Gunn avail-need to be made," Mica said. 
page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 1 0, 2005 
Housing Jeff Shoup last week, along with Baron, said the construction will bring cable, wireless Internet and better cell phone reception to dorms. 
"The biggest issue is the 15 to 18-day 'dark period' that everyone is concerned about," Seiler said. 
During this time, Seiler said the dorm phones, card swip­ing system and Internet con­nection will be nonfunctioning. To get through this period, he advised students to carry their room keys and extra money with them. 
But Seiler warned senators not to expect too much too soon. 
"Cable's not going to go live until next fall," he said. "However, the hope is that wireless will be available." 
+International Education Week will take place next week, Diversity Affairs com­mittee chair Sarah Liu said. 
Liu called the week "huge," citing 20 events sponsored by departments across campus. 
She asked senators to go see the "Eyes on the World" poster display, which will run Monday through Friday in O'Shaughnessy Hall, as well as the "Eyes on the World" pres­entation that will be given by students who studied or per­formed service abroad at 7 
p.m. Wednesday in the Coleman-Morse Lounge. 
A 10,000 Villages Sale will be held in the Dooley Room in LaFortune Monday through Friday, Liu said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
1357 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 46615 
57 4-289-5080 



Careers 
continued from page 1 
"Companies are not focusing on business students alone." 
Other seniors have decided against visiting the Career Center primarily because instead of jumping headfirst into the office, graduate school is next on their agenda. 
Senior Mary McGrath has not tapped the resources of the Career Center. 
''I'm interested in graduate school and felt that I could get more information from my advi­sors in the psychology and English departments," McGrath said. 
Students like McGrath can still find help through the Career Center. The Web site has an extensive list of workshops devot­ed to understanding possibilities for graduate programs. 
Despite the substantial block of seniors who have not visited the Career Center, a growing number of students are using the facilities available to them. 
The Career Center scheduled 4,028 appointments with students during the 2004-05 academic year, according to Svete, but he anticipates an even higher num­ber of student appointments this year. 
"This year we have surpassed the appointments we had at this time last year," he said. Sarah Sobczak is a senior who has pur­sued her job hunt primarily through the Career Center. 
"After going to workshops to help with my interviewing skills and getting help from an advisor on my cover letters and resume, starting in September, I applied through 'Go IRISH!' and have steadily continued applying since then," she said. 
Sobczak is an English and gen­der studies major and has applied to Fortune 100 companies inter­viewing on campus regularly this semester. 
Svete also noted another liberal arts major like Sobczak, a senior who is a political science major and has received four second­round interviews with the help of the Career Center. 
To date, 6,000 interviews have been held on campus. Svete emphasized that even ifa particu­lar company does not make trips to Notre Dame, the Career Center can help interested students. 
"There are many companies who do not travel to college cam­puses to interview. 
But this does not mean they cannot be reached," Svete said. "We have search engines to search out companies and find that job opening or internship not available at the Career Fair. We had a senior interested in com­puter animations and recently found a job for him through the search engines at MGM Grand in Las Vegas." 
Contact Katie Linhares at klinhare@nd.edu 


c::""""""""~'l '7 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
going on, the talk on campus of the evictions, talk in The Observer ... we want to con­tinue to promote our message and state a elear position on what we're working on, which is to improve the relationship Lbetween Notre Dame students and South Bend residents]," Guzman said. 
Improving this relationship does not require students to make an incredible exertion, the committee emphasized in its letter. 
"It can be as simple as a friendly hello to a member of the South Bend community, to introducing oneself to new neighbors, to investigating the community and all it offers beyond Grape Hoad," the let­ter reads. 
The letter was approved without opposition. 
Senators passed a resolution modifying the fixed allocation percentages listed in the Student Union constitution, a change previously designated by Senate as the second stage in the push for the implemen­tation of the College Readership Program -the first stage being the $15 stu­dent activities fee increase that passed in Senate Oct. 12. 
The amendment to the Student Union constitution will decrease the fixed allotments granted to clubs and organiza­tions and a contingency fund, increasing the budgetary allot­ment for Student Union organ­izations. 
These changes adequately shift the distribution of Student Union funds to allow for the execution of the College Readership Program. 
Student body president Dave Baron urged senators to pass the resolution, reminding them it was simply the second step in a previously-passed resolution and essential "to 
pay for the College Headership program without hurting all of these organi­zations." 
Baron said he had been in "constant contact" with Vice President of Student Affairs Father Mark Poorman, who sup­ported the student activities fee fixed allocation percentages passed in Senate with no dis­cussion, but drew one vote of opposition and one abstention. 
McGlinn senator Lindsay Meyer introduced the Hesolution Supporting Continued Outreach to Victims of Hurricanes Katrina and Hita, describing it as a "bread and butter resolution." 
"It can be as simple as a friendly hello to a member ofthe South Bend community, to introducing onese(f to new neighbors, to investigating the community and all it offers beyond Grape Road." 
Student Senate letter 
increase and passed the reso­lution along to the University Budgetary Working Group, which approved the resolution Monday. 
The University Officers Budgetary Group will consider the proposed increase today, 

· Baron said. If approved, how­ever, the increase will be put on the proposed University budget and not considered until February, when the Board of Trustees will convene and vote on next year's budg­et. The resolution to change the 
"We support everything that has transpired so far regard­ing !Notre Dame's efforts in] helping out victims ·and urge the !University] President [Father John Jenkinsl. and [University] Provost !Thomas Burish I to channel some of the resources of our academic departments to 
further research ... and to support the [hurricane] vic­tims," Meyer said. 
The resolution, again, passed without opposition. 
In other Senate news: 
+Residence Life committee chair Mark Seiler explained the upcoming campus-wide construction to bring incre­ased technology to residence halls, a project that is starting in Sorin College this week. 
Seiler, who met with Director of Residence Life and 



Thursday, November 10, 2005 The Observer+ NEWS page 9 
"In essence, Notre Dame supposed to be evaluated appeals committees take the and regret to say, is only a for­offered to allow judgment to based on three criteria: serv­job very seriously and, from mality," Haywood said. ")The
Professor 
be entered against it for the  ice, teaching and scholarship,"  what I witnessed, devote enor­ purpose of' the appeal and  
continued from page 1  amount specified as  a  means  Haywood said. "! was not eval­ mous  amounts  of  time  to  rehearing! is  to protect the  
of settling the case," Storin  uated based solely on  those,  investigating a ease," Haywood  University l'rom  a  lawsuit - 
the defending party in lieu of a  said. "Mr. llaywood accepted  rather the department chair  said. "After their work is done,  this failed in my ease."  
trial and rnquire the defendant  this offer, but Notre Dame  Father Austin Collins and Arts  they issue a report ... [but] I  According to thn lawsuit,  
to pay minimal damages plus  denies any wrongdoing and is  and Letters Dean Mark Roche  was only given the conclusion  Haywood said part of' thn rea­ 
tlw plaintifl''s attorney cost  pleased with  invented a special  of the report."  son he was denied tnnure was  
and fees.  the  settle- standard for me."  Haywood said  one  of the  becausn of the FM LA. It also  
"The plaintiff had ten days in which to accept this offer,  ment." Storin said  "Obviously, ifthe case  llaywood said Collins and Roche  conclusions was "ICollinsl and certain members of )the  said thn l'ormllr prol'essor's age was "the subject of' a prior dis­ 
whieh he ultimately did," Storin said. llaywood said he took the  there was no court deci­sion in sense  had gone to trial, we would have been  evaluated him based on what they perceived as  department's Committee on Appointments and Promotions! exhibited attitudes and  cussion mlating to his tenure application. Storin said the University  
J.'Ml.A in 2001 when he discov­ of  a  judg­ ready to convey our  his "future poten­ engaged in behavior that sug­ maintains that it in  no  way  
ered his mother in South Carolina had acute leukemia  ment by a judge and/or  side ofthe dispute. "  tial to be depart­ment chair" -a  gested personal bias" and that bias might have infected his  discriminated Haywood.  against  
and required his assistance.  jury,  but  criteria he deemed  initial review.  "The University is not inter­ 
"The chair, IFather Austin]  Haywood  Matt Storln  "wholly inappro­ Haywood said the review is  ested in arguing this case any  
Collins at the time, and [then-)  maintained a  University spokesperson  priate and out of  supposed  to  be  redone  if  further." he said. "Obviously, if  
associate  provost  Carol  court  made  line  with  junior  appeal  committees  find  the case had gone to trial,  we  
Mooney  had  approved  my  the  final  faculty evaluation  extraordinary instances of  would have been ready to con­ 
FMLA prior to my taking this  decision.  criteria  at  top  personal bias or procedural  vey our side of this dispute.  
leave toward the end of the  "The decision by the federal  research universities in the  errors, but his review was "not  Mr. Haywood chose not to go  
term," he said. "During my  court was a judgment against  United States."  truly  redone  because  the  that route when we offered to  
review and hearing, the FMLA  Notre Dame," said Haywood,  Believing an  injustice had  department. the Dean and the  settle under Hule 68 ... We set­ 
was - in effect - used nega­ whose  issues  with  the  been done, Haywood appealed  Provost's Advisory Committee  tled, and we consider the mat­ 
tively."  University began in 2004 when  his denial  to  the Provost's  review the  same application  ter closed."  
According to federal court  his promotion from assistant  Office where a  committee - package."  Haywood is currently teaeh­ 
documents, Notre Dame will  to associate professor with  comprised of senior faculty  Despite  the  appeal,  the  ing  at  the  University  of  
pay llaywood, 47, $52,200  tenure was rejected.  members -reviewed the case  University  again  denied  Michigan.  
with interest and an additional  "Assistant professors that  and found it necessary to re­ Haywood's promotion in May  
$15,250 in fees for his legal  are being reviewed for promo­ evaluate the application.  2004.  Contact Katie Perry at  
representative.  tion to associate professor are  "The  two  elected faculty  "The rehearing, I believe  kperry5@nd.edu  

NRA sues to overturn
UNYIELDING 
San Francisco gun ban 
Associated Press Wednesday asking the same court, the 1st District Court of SAN FHANCISCO -The Appeal, to nullify thn ordi­
DEDICATION N·rcttHoLOVATY 
National Hifle Association sued nance, which demands that dty Wednesday to overturn an ordi­residents surrnnder their hand­nance voters here overwhelm­guns by April. ingly approved a day earlier "Cities do not have the that bans handgun possession authority under the state law to
Thursday, November 10, 5 p.m. 
and sales of firearms in the ban the possession of hand­city. . guns." said Wayne LaPierre,
The Oak Room 

A state appeals court in 1982 NHA president. nullified a similar gun ban The NHA also contends thn
(2nd floor SOH, left and upstairs) 
largely on grounds that the city new ordinance unfairly puts cannot enact an ordinance that San Francisco residents at aDiscussion to follow. 
conflicts with state law, which disadvantage by denying them allows for the sale and posses­the means to protect them­Soup and bread will be served. sion of handguns and ammuni­selves. The measure does not tion. bar nonresidents from possess­The NRA filed its lawsuit ing handguns within eity limits. 

ABOVE: This house collapsed on amother and 
her three children who were sleeping in it, February of 2002. Nick took this picture. 
LEFT: Nick Holovaty (third from left) and friends, sitting on the front porch of the first house he and his fellow city-builders have built in Shreveport, LA. They have built atotal of five since the summer of 2002. 

Why? United for Pakistani Earthquake Relief 
Pulling our resources together can make a BIG difference!!!!! 
Information Forthcoming 
WD iB1U~~~~,..,

NCAA ChampionshiPS
.r

Fridav, November 11 @1:30pm Notre Dante vs.laliiaraiso 
@5:00 Dll· MIIIIIIIJISiatevs.BOWIInu Green 
. {~ . 
Sundav, Nonmber13@1:00pm Winner of Game 1vs. Winner of Game 2 First 100 Students roclovo froo admission & Free Food sponsored bV Coca-Colal 

THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Thursday, November 10, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Oatne, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Datne, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 

ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CONTROLLER: Jim K.irihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editOrs. Commentaries, letters and columns present rhe views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters w the Editor must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publhhed Monday through Friday except during exam and voJcation periods.. A subscription m Th<: ObJOC:tvcr h $100 fur one aademk y~r: $55 for one semester. 
The Observer is published ar: POSTMA>TER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corr«tions to: 
Notte Dame. IN 46'516-0779 The Observer 
f'erlodical postage paid .u Nouc: Dame PO. Bo< 779 
and addido1tal mailing offices. 021 Somh Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN ,.655()..077t) 
The Obicrvcr is a member of the! Associated Prcu. All tepruduclion rights an: =M<i. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Kate Antonacci 

Joe Piarulli Sports Megan O'Neil Mike Gilloon Janice Flynn Chris Khorey 
Viewpoint Greg Arbogast Joey King Graphics Scene 
Graham Ebetsch Liz Byrum 
Learning something new every day 
This is for all of you who sit with your friends at lunch in the dining hall and read The Observer instead of talk­ing to each other, for all of you first­year students who are wondering why you don't feel like 
you know your room-Kate Barrett mates very well yet FaithPoint (maybe because you read The Observer instead of talking to each other?), for all you seniors who think you know your roommates really well. Try this little exercise: ask each other a few, or more, of these relative­ly random questions and see if you learn anything new. Enjoy! If you could eat the best dessert in the world, what would it be? What's your favorite place to eat out? Why? What's the best topping on pizza? What do you like to do when you exer­cise? What kind of job do you think you'll have when you grow up? Why? Have you ever blamed someone for something they didn't do? How did you feel? Do you ever do volunteer work? What do you like about it? What's hard about it? Does your mother have a nickname for you? What is it? When does she use that nickname? Does your 

father have a nickname for you? What is it? When does he use that nick­name? What's your favorite sport to play? What's your favorite sport to watch? Why? Think about a person who is your hero. What makes them your hero? Would you ever like to be president (President of what, you ask? Your pick.)? What would you do if you were president? 
What has been your most memorable trip by airplane? Why? What's your favorite book? Who wrote it? Who's the best character you ever encoun­tered in a book? Why? 
How many places have you lived in your life? What have they been like? What would you do for Indiana if you were governor? What's your favorite song? Why? What's your favorite holi­day? Why? Do you ever feel lonely? What do you do about it? Who are your three best friends? What do you like about each of them? What is some­thing special that you own? What makes it so special to you? What's your 
favorite thing to do in the wintertime? Summertime? Do you remember your favorite bedtime book or story when you were little? What do you remem-
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Reassessing Bush's approval 
In his Nov. 7 letter, Bob Polchow condemns "poorly argued opinion piece[s]." I agree with this statement. Therefore, I am compelled to respond to Polchow. 
Polchow cites the demographics of New Orleans to apparently acquit the Bush administration of the accusations leveled by Falco. However, he fails to address the real issues of the incompetence of authorities to properly respond to the disaster and the divisions of race and class revealed by the hurricane. 
He completely trivializes the Plame affair by pithily claiming, "some analyst was supposedly outed." Valerie Plame was a CIA agent. This information was classified until revealed by Robert Novak, according to Patrick Fitzgerald himself. He then accuses Fitzgerald of attempting to "entrap administration officials" as revenge for the election of 2000. Why would Fitzgerald do this? Polchow offers no answer to this question and assumes the reader will take his word for it. While it has not yet been proven that any administration officials violated the law, the scandal has at least revealed its dishonesty. 
Polchow describes Samuel Alito's record as "reassuring." However, I find it not the least bit reassuring that in the Casey case also cited by Polchow, Alito argued that the state could require that a woman's hus­band be notified when a woman seeks an abortion. In fact, many of his opinions have been overturned in the Supreme Court in decisions where O'Connor cast the deciding vote. The confirmation of Alito would undoubtedly move the Supreme Court to the right. I am not attempting to argue that Alito would be a poor Supreme Court Justice, but for Polchow to reproach criticism of the nominee as "uninformed and childish" ignores Alito's established location in the continuum of judicial philoso­phies. 
I suggest that Polchow digest this and other sets of facts in order to, in time, make a fair assessment of the multitude of controversial issues that have led the public to increasingly express disapproval of President 
George W. Bush. 
OBSERVER POLL 
What do you think of Notre Dame's disciplinary policies? 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Jason James senwr Zahm Nov. 8 

Submit aL.elter
. ·: :•. '••' ., .,...·...·. :·. .•..... ··-·<· . ··.... ··.-.· .<-: 
to tbe Editor at 
4www.ndsmcobserver.eom 
ber about it? What's your favorite color? Why? What's your favorite board game to play? Why? Do you have any special memories or relation­ships with your grandparents? 
If you could invent something, what would it be? What makes you really, really happy? What makes you really, really sad? What do you do about it? Have you ever been blamed for some­thing you didn't do? How did it make you feel? What have you prayed about lately? Philippians 4:13 reads, "I can do all things through God who strengthens me." Do you ever memo­rize Scripture verses? Does this one seem worth memorizing? Why or why not? 
Who are some of the people you are thankful for in your life? What do you love about Notre Dame? What lasting mark do you hope you'll leave here? 
Kate Barrett is the Director of Resources & Special Projects for Campus Ministry. She can be contacted at Barrett.28@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Balancing 
•

grouptng 
As I read the letters discussing whether segregation is natural (Stephanie Yoshida Nov. 7) or racism is still alive (Jeff Tate Nov. 8), I can't help but ask why it is that a group of "minorities" sitting together is seen as "self-segregating" while a group of "non~minorities" sitting together is not? 
In a setting where there is a clearly dominant group -in Notre Dame's case, white Catholics -it is easy to fall into the trap of seeing the dominant group's behavior as "normal" and the behavior of any other group as "different." 
The truth is that when a group of white Catholics sits together, they are just as self-segregated as is a group of Asians, blacks, or Latinos sitting together. In say­ing this, I am not attaching any value, positive or negative, to self-segregation. I am just pointing out that it is a behavior common to all. 
Mingling with and becoming friends with people whose backgrounds are dif­ferent from your own is a good thing. It broadens one's views and, I suppose, con­tributes to world peace. Spending time with people who share your own back­ground is a good thing, too. It brings a sense of comfort and belonging that, in its own way, also contributes to world peace. 
The key is balance. There's time for both. 
Phil Sakimoto faculty professional specialist in physics Nov. 9 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"If!JOU can get nothing better out oj the world, get a good dinner out ofit, at least." 
Herman Melville author 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, November 10, 2005 page 11 
Why do we laugh? 
There are some jokes that we should not tdl, hut are thorn any things we should nnvnr jokn about'? Lt~t's start with somn obsPrvations. 
Pnoplo do, as a matter of fact, joke about dPath, cancer, demen­tia. murder, suiddn and othPr painful topics. Furthnr, it is obsPrvably falsP that pnnpln only makn or apprnciatn tlwso jokes if tlwy lack dirnct expPrion1~n of the subjnct mattnr. Many Alzlwinwr's patients lovP Alzheinwr's jokos, although many do not. 
In England. nwdkal studtmL<; have a rnputa­tion for finding humor in what many would eonsider to bo improper placPs; thoy name the cadavers on which they praetice dissnetion, play catch with organs, and circulate legends about patients who arrive in the emnr­gmH~Y room sporting injurios aequirPd in mortifyingly embarrassing ways. 
All of which is certainly unsettling, but it would bt~ a mistakn to suppose that the studPnL<;' bPhavior is an indication that tlwy are not sPrious about their calling as doctors. It just won't do to sternly leeture tlwrn that wlwn thny arn doetnrs they will lu~ visit1~d by pPopln who are at their most w11ak and vulrwrable, and mistakes that tlwy make eould Pasily be fiLtal. Tho stu­dPnL<; arP acutely awam of these faets, and that's why they joke; to make their respon­sibilities bearabln. 
Ilurnor about somber subjm:ts has long bf'f'n known as black eomedy, or gallows 

Peter Wicks 
Englishman Abroad 
humor in cases in which people joke about their own death. My favorite example of the latter was provided by the Irish come­dian Spike Milligan, who arranged for the epitaph on his tombstone to road "I told you I was ill." 
There are people who do not enjoy black comedy, who lind that they cannot joke or appreciate jokes about some topics, because they are too painful or too sacred. These people arc not humorless; it is just that for them there are certain areas of lili1 that are ofT-limits to humor. They are not humorless, but humor plays a difl'erent role lor them than it doos for those of us who lind relief in laughing about the dark­er aspecl<; of life and as a result they fre­qmmtly misintnrpret black humor as a sign that those who partake in it find things less painful or loss sacred than they do. 
Monty Python's film "The Life of Brian" contains a lot of black comedy, most noto­riously in its conclusion, a erudftxion scene played out as an upbeat musical numbnr. It's easy to assume (I know it must be easy because so many people do ill that if you lind the film funny, this must show a lack of seriousness about one's faith, an inadequate sonsn of the saered. But if you take the time to aetually lind out who enjoys thn film you will discover that whether or not a person finds it funny is a vnry poor indieator of the seriousness with whieh they take their faith. 
Last week, Lauren Prease, the vice pres­ident of Notre Dame's chapter of the NMCP, wrote a letter in these pages con­demning routines performed by two stu­dent comedians at a recent comedy show. She took exception to one joke in which the comedian claimed to have never understood why segregated seating on buses was a problem, since everyone knows that's where the cool kids sit. Prease replies, "Perhaps for blacks during the Jim Crow era, sitting in the back lost its 'cool' appeal when they were forced to sit or stand uncomfortably in the back of the bus when seats were available toward the front." 

If you can't prove your point, just prove a different point and hope no-one notices. I think I understand why Prease thinks the joke is oll'ensive; what I can't understand is why she thinks it's a joke. Leaving aside the question of whether it was funny, the joke simply wouldn't make sense unless it took for granted that in reality, the experi­ence of segregation was horribly degrad­ing and that we all know this. If Prease thinks that telling the joke or laughing at it is evidence that a person doesn't think racial discrimination is a terrible thing, then she is in a position rather like that of the person who thinks that if a Christian laughs at "Life of Brian," it shows that they don't really believe that Jesus is tho Messiah -as a theory, it has many advan­tages, being simple and easy to apply, but on the downside, it isn't true. 
Prease also took issue with a second comedian who, as she puts it, "mentioned the taboo word 'nigger."' lie did mention the word, immediately after a skeptical joke about the attempt by some women to reappropriate a traditionally demeaning word as a term of affection. lie continued: "Language in America has gotten out of hand anyway ... for Christmas, my grand­ma sent me this sweater she knitted me. On the front it said 'My Nigga."' 
The reclamation of this term for use amongst blacks was popularized by Richard Pryor, who lator came to regret it (his explanation of why he decided to stop using the word is one of the most extraor­dinary and powerful routines I have ever heard). When I hnard the comedian's joke, I pictured a benign old grandmothnr knit­ting away at her gift while listening to gangster rap, who had notieed that the term had now bnen taken up as a term of allhetion but who had, disastrously, some­how failed to recognize that it was only taken this way amongst blaeks. That the imaginary grandmother innoeently pro­duced a presont that would earn its recipi­ent social ostracism and very possibly a beating is one of the many things that would be horrible if it worn true but is funny because it isn't. 
It's often hard to know whether a joke is acceptctble because it's often hard to know why people laugh at it. What's aggravating is that the crities don't seem particularly interested in finding out. 
Peter Wlcks is a graduate student in the philosophy department. 1/e has been pro­ducing and performing in student stand­up comedy shows at Notre Dame for three years, including the show /.hal has been the subject ofrecent discussion. 
In response to the letter-writer who wrote in lo challenge his credmzlials as a cultural critic, Peter would like it. to be known that he does so too know about popular culture. 1/e can be contacted at pwicks@nd. edu 
The CJiews expressed in lhis column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe ObserN?r. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Defending Bush on abortion 
Tho abortion-representing crosses that "the party with the anti-abortion means by which Roe v. Wade may be birthparents had every legal right to strewn about South Quad each year plank has controlled both houses of overturned. abort, but luckily for me, their con­always stir up a great deal of emotion. Congress" for several years. Bush's appointments to the Supreme sciences wouldn't allow this. So, as Yet without fail, some students insist Overlooked, apparently, is the fact Court provide hope. John Hoberts is a you might imagine, abortion is a pri­on applying ill-conceived political that bills must receive a two-thirds conservative with a history suggesting mary issue I consider when discussing spins to what should be a somber dis­majority to pass, which no anti-abor­an opposition to abortion. Samuel politics. In my opinion, Bush is making play. tion bill would even come close to at Alito, who appears certain to be con­all the right moves to end what is, col­
Matthew Smedberg's Nov. 8 Inside this point in time. It's unlikely that any firmed, is a moderate conservative. lectively, our nation's greatest sin. Column "Dubya and thn Unborn" rings party will ever achieve a two-thirds Potentially, Bush may have aligned the false on numerous levels. lie accuses majority in our two-party democracy. Supreme Court such that abortion will Aaron Zielinski l'rosidont Bush and the Hepublican Therefore, anti-abortion bills will not be legal in the United States within senior party of failing to produce legislature never pass through Congress, meaning 15 years. Off-campus crirninalizing abortion despite the fact the Judicial Branch is the most likely I am an adopted child. My unwed Nov. 9 
U-WIRE 
Unrest in Paris shouldn't be ignored 
Monday night was the I :Hh consecu­tive night in which French youths rioted in towns and dties across France. 
Thn riots nrupt11d in protest of the deaths of two young people hiding from police, but ftwlnd by dn1~ades of radal and Zach Lee r11ligious tensions left largnly undweknd by The Daily tho Frnnch govnrn­Cougar mont, they havn l lniversity of lw1~omn sonwthing 1/onston entindy diiT11rent and far rnon1 devastating. 
Morn than 5,000 vehidns have bonn tordwd, and tlwrn has bnen at lnast onn conlirnwd dnath among many rnportnd injurins. Schools and othnr institutions also havn bonn targets of the mob's rago. 
Such a sudden and prolongnd violnnce in a country long known for its diploma­cy should he, at the vnry least, a topic of intnmst for all young poi1ple. Many pno­pie on campus, however, are just now finding out about the riots, two weeks into the mayhem. This is a sad demon­stration of both their own personal apa­thy and the fact that up-to-the-minute nows available online does not neces­sarily mean poople are better informed about the world around them. Many remain ignorant. 
Others are laughing it ofT. After all, we can still oat our freedom fries over here in the United States without watching flames engulf every ear on the block, but then again, race is an issue with which this country has boon dealing directly for the past 50 years. Even before that, slavery and racial equality have been topies of discussion since this country was just a group of 13 colonies. 
Fram~e doesn't have that history. 
Countless North Afrieans and Muslims havn been immigrating to the country for decades, and France now finds that its new citizens want the same rights and respect as its old citizens. They are making it very dear. 

Two weeks of almost continuous riot­ing, however, does not speak well of the ability of the French government to do its job-govern. A midnight curfew for minors is finally in effect across France, but a government-enforced bedtime seems far too little, far too late. 
Sure, there have been hundreds of arrests madH, but the French govern­ment's response is remarkably similar to the U.S. government's response to the devastation caused by HurricanH Katrina. In both situations, racism and a lack of organiz1-1d leadership have bonn alleged as reasons for sluggish reac­tions, but no matter what the reasons bnhind it, a distinct lack of decisive action let both disasters become more tragic than they needed to be. 
Obviously, French authorities need to pacify the rioters before they have even the slightest chance of closing tho gaps bntw()en minority suburban familins and the wealthier city dwellers, but standing back and letting the flames burn thnrn­selves out is not the answer. Thosn flames will burn much longor than most French citizens can afford to wait. 
Assuming the government does regain the peace in a timely manner, it needs to remember vividly both the riots and the actions, or laek of action, that caused them when it sits down to write the laws of France's futurn. 
As for the rnst of the world, it should keep an ey() on how France handlns itself in the coming days and weeks. Thern arn many lnssons to bn lnarrwd. 
This column .first appeared in the Nov. 9 issue of the Daily Cougar, the daily publication at the Unitwrsity of 1/ouston. 
The 11iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of 11w Obser11er. 
~--~----~----------------­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Thursday, November I 0, 2005 
CD REVIEWS 

Gray gets past obstacles, creates poetic clarity 
By ANALISE LIPARI 
Scene Critic 
In the four years following his seven­time platinum album "White Ladder," British singer-songwriter David Gray has worked to craft a decent follow up record. 2003's "A New Day at Midnight." written in response to the death of Gray's father, was too dark and mellow a release for his original audience to respond to. 
His latest effort. however, "Life in Slow Motion," is a solid return to his previous level of work, with a fresh yet familiar feel to its ten tracks. Hefreshing, insightful and token Gray, the album is an achievement of beauty and substance. 
This album marks the first time Gray has recorded his music in what one might call a "serious studio." Previously he was hallmarked for the stark, simplistic nature of his recording style. This time around, Gray moves beyond the "bedroom" studio into a full-blown recording facility, and this shows in the smooth clarity of each track. 
"How I long to I bite the hand that feeds you," Gray sings in an opening line. The album begins with "Alibi," a darker track about the bitterness of lost love. The orchestral strains of the song's start dispel any seasoned Gray listener's ideas about his previously electronica-heavy style. 
"This time around, the drum machine has been replaced with spa­cious soundscapes of glacial instru­mentation," Lucie Davis said in a recent BBC review of the album. This effort runs through "Slow Motion," with a clarity harkening back to his earlier efforts, while evolving into another realm of style. 
The second track and first-released single, "One I Love," is signature Gray in its earnest emotions, quiet poetry and strong melodic chords. Not unlike his classic "This Year's Love," this 
track works due 



to its taking hold of real life emo­
Life in Slow 
tions without sinking into the
Motion 
hackneyed or cliched. The
David Gray 
light and earthy feel of the guitar
Ato Records 
riffs carries the song, and the earnest lyrics lend it to be 
placed among Gray's classics. 
, 
'*"'',L 

Recommended tracks: 'Alibi,"Slow Motion,"Nos Da 
"As the tracer 

Cariad,"One I Love' and 'Hospital Food' glides I In its graceful arc I 
Send a little prayer out to ya I 'cross the falling dark," Gray croons in the opening verse of "One I Love." 
Each of the remaining tracks has a distinct feel. "From Here You Can Almost See the Sea," the sixth track, has an almost ethereal sensibility, with Gray's normally somewhat-ragged voice hitting higher, more lilting notes. The sound is quiet, elegant and refreshing, and the track as a whole is gorgeous in its effortlessness. 
Other highlights include the com­pelling title track, "Slow Motion," and "Hospital Food," where Gray muses on what he feels to be the mediocre nature of much of daily life. With a heavier drum beat than earlier tracks, "Hospital Food" grabs attention while subtly making the listener think. 

"A bucketful of Babylon I A belly full of hate," Gray sings in "Nos Da Cariad," Welsh for "Goodnight, sweet­heart." Gray has a history of writing more poetic lyrics, and "Life in Slow Motion" proves wonderfully to be no different. His word choice is often sub­tle but effective, working seamlessly with his melodies to create an undeni­ably strong record. 
"It was bloody hard work," Gray says on his website, www.davidgray.com. "Fear and doubt are huge obstacles. In terms of your own work, you have to try to overcome thflm. 
"It would have been so easy to get freaked out, but I'm really delighted that I didn't." 
Contact Analise Lipari at alipari@nd.edu 
Musical genius shines through on new album 
By JAMES COSTA Scene Critic 
Ryan Adams isn't a country singer. lie's also not a rocknr, and he's defi­nitely not a pop star. lie's simply Hyan Adams. and this makes his latest effort uniquely vibrant and brilliant. 
Heturning to the country roots of his early career with the band Whiskeytown. hP and the Cardinals have joined to create "Jacksonville City Nights," an album that couples pure country influencP with Adam's inim­itable musical talent. As he concen­trates on such a small portion of American geography, it is easy for a person to feel as if they are a part of the stories carved through the tracks. Curiously, Adams chooses the largest city in Florida to set his album, which is also a city that is hardly ever thought of as an enviable destination. 
The poignant and haunting duet with Norah Jones, "Dear John," is a master­piece of romantic destruction and musical exploration. Using a heavy piano, the track seems to be the prod­uct of two lovers now separated, singing out the same song at the same timfl to each other from thousands of miles away. It speaks of the classic Adams themes of heartbreak and loss, alleviated by a strong shot or handle of TP-nnessee whiskey. 
The main difference between "Jacksonville City Nights" and earlier Hyan Adams albums is the obvious lack of musical complexity. While he often used to employ the electric guitar and amps, he instead focuses on piano, fid­dle and acoustic guitar backed by a light drum. This decision not only exposes the plea for mercy for which Adams always seems.to be searching, but also the artistic realization that it is not noise, but truth, that sincerely affects a discerning listener. 
While the album has a few misses, these tracks even begin to acquire a cer­tain genius when listened to multiple times. 
Harkening back to the days of such musical acts as Neil Young and Gram Parsons, Adams returns his moan of a voice to the bare­bones country of its rural American descent. For the first time in a long while, Adams seems to fit his voice perfectly to the meaning of the words he sings. The tales he relives are those of the common man. His voice reminds us that music is meant to be a testament to the common emotions we share and not meant to be digitally re-mastered or enhanced. While his music and voice are unadorned by such distractions, they together achieves the rare distinction of allowing the listener to truly connect their own thoughts to that of the artist's. 


Though both he and his career have been classified as overly dramatic and eccentric, "Jacksonville City Nights" proves to be a true testament to the revival of real soul and emotion in music. 
Adam's accounts of basic human pain and hope could not achieve their power without the raw intelligence of his own experience channeled through his music. 
Adams has announced that he has another album in the works, which is due out before year's end. Clearly, the inexhaustible Adams is on to something exceptional in his musical future. 
Going by "Jacksonville City Nights," he simply cannot go wrong. 
Contact James Costa at jcostal@nd.edu 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, November I 0, 2005 
page 13 
-
---~-­

WVFI PREVIEW 
Ted Leo shakes up LaFortune Saturday 
By JOE LATTAL 
Scene Writer 
Tlw last tinw Ted Leo (Class ol' I 9941 playNI a show at Notrn Damn, it was the early '1J0s, and he was an English major. Wlwn hn returns Saturday night in WVFI's "()uadroek," lw will be back as one ol' tlw most rnspneted and popular indio rock stars to ever play on the sec­ond lloor of' his alma nHLtnr's student con­tor. 
I lis rnsunw is impressive -four eriti­t·ally-acdainwd f'ull-lnngth albums and orw solo 1·:1'. a profile documentary enti­tled "Dirty Old Town" (filnwd by anotlwr Notn~ Damn graduatn, Justin Mitchell, Class of IIJ'J5L and a nomination for sexi­nst vngan by PETA2 in 2005. 
Alongside his band mates, known as the l'harmaeists, Leo's live show is a uniqunly nnergntic environment. Leo ol't.tm jumps around thn stage playing his 1dnetrie guitar with an amp cable that looks morn like a telephone eord trying to knnp up with him. Bassist Dave Lerner swings his hips to frenetic bass !inns, whiln drummer Chris Wilson aceeleratHs the momentum, mercilessly beating his drum kit. 
Hecently, Leo has been involved in sev­eral muskal projects including Flower15 at the Metro in Chicago, a series of con­certs to celebrate the 15th anniversary of' Flower Booking, a booking agm1cy whose elients inr.lude over 50 bands such as Interpol, .Jimmy Eat World and Leo him­self'. Leo also contributed a cover of' the Beatles' ''I'm Looking Through You" to "This Bird lias Flown," a tribute album celebrating the 40th anniversary of "Hubber Soul." Other artists appearing on the compilation include Sul]an Stevens, Bnn Kweller and the Fiery 
Furmu~es. 
Leo gained national popularity for his second full-length, "Tyranny of' Distance," in 2001. Anthemic hits such as "B iom usicology," "Timorous Me" and "My Vien llin"-some ofwhieh he usual­ly includes in his live sets two albums and four years later-were early indiea­tors of Leo's boundless songwriting potential. 
In 2003, Ted Leo and the Pharmacists exploded with the mlease of "Hearts of Oak." The album immediately received 
Pitchfork Media's 
"best new music" honors and a spot

Ted Leo and the 
in the Top 30 of Pitchfork's topPharmacists 
albums of the year. Leo's fresh rhythms and eru­
LaFortune Ballroom 
dite vocabulary combined ele­
November 12 
ments of' elassic rock with the cur­
8 p.m. 
rent indie scene. Fan favorites 

Tickets available at the LaFortune Box Office ineluded "Ballad 
of the Sin Eater," a !ivA-minute narrative voyage consisting mostly of bass and drums, "Where I lave All the Hude Boys Gone?" an addictive tunc about Leo's longing li>r the ska era of punk, and "2nd Ave. 11 AM," which eondudes with unexpAeted Fnmch lyrics that make people who don't even under­stand what they're saying sing along. 


After the major success of "Hearts of Oak," Ted Leo released a solo EP, "Tell Balgeary Balgury Is Dead," which includ­ed solo versions of two "Hearts of Oak" songs as well as a handful of early obscure rock and punk covers. "Tell Balgeary Balgury is Dead" was more pas­sionate than anything Leo ever released. The furious strumming melting into his falsetto voiee revealed Leo's special tal­ents, especially on Ewan McColl's "Dirty Old Town." What Ben Folds was to the piano, Ted Leo is to the electric guitar. 
A strenuous touring schedule took Leo to 2004 and his fourth, and most antici­paled, full-length album, "Shake the Shnets." The album echoes many of the songwriting techniques from "Hearts of Oak" but with cleaner production and less repetition. While four of the songs on "Hearts of Oak" topped live minutes. nino of the 11 on "Shake the Shoots" are under four. 
Leo performs lots of the morn exdting songs live induding, "Me and Mia," "The Angels' Share," "The One Who Got Us Out," "Counting Down the Hours," "Littlo !~awn.:: "Shake tho Sheets" and "Walking 
Io Do. 

With enough material to keep a crowd excited for hours, Leo won't pull any punches in what is sum to bo one of the most exciting musical events for Notrn Dame this year. 
Campus artists Somersaults and Hyan Martin are the openers for tlw event. 
Contact Joe Latta) at jlattal@nd.edu 
CD REVIEW 
Fortner pop princess turns dark angel on new-albutn 
By COURTNEY WILSON 
Sn·nr <:ririe 
Typical as it may IH', /\shine Simpst.m, with tlw n~lnasn of lwr sophomore aibum "I /\111 MP," plays the part of tlw defiant female songst.Pr jaded by llollywood and a sort of rt~hel to lwr ePlnbrity. 
The pop-pri nenss-tu rnnd -dark-angnI image, whid1 is reminiscent of sueh stars as Britney Spears. Christina /\guilera and most recnntly, Knlly Clarkson, is by now exp111~ted. But Simpson never pro­ft~sst~d to be a girly-girl anyway. She has always been a bit more grunge ­although mostly in image alone. 
This time around, her now dark glam imago has transitioned its way into her music. Tlw formerly quirky and upbnat style of Ashlee's first album, "/\u tobiography," has somehow been 
to Ashlee we 

remember from "Autobiography." llowever, the restAshlee Simpson 
of the tracks on the album are a little too dull for 
lAmMe 
Geffen Records 
their own good, especially the bummed-out vers­es of "Beautifully Broken" and "Catch Me When I


Recommended tracks: 'Boyfriend,"L.O. VE./ 
Fall." Honestly, it 
is difficult to dis­
tinguish between

'Burning Up' and 'Coming Back for More' 
replaced by a eolleetion of' lifeless tracks, most of which ar-e lacking any fizzy pop lustnr. Some may givn her props for experimentation, but you have to won­der ... what happnnnd to her teen spirit? 
Overall. every song on the CD tnnds to have a similar sound, and it makes l'or a sort of monotonous mcord. A majority of the songs work as fillers for a few good singles that will eventually make it to the radio waves. 
Tho first single released was "Boyfriend," and that is just about as good as it gets. It is safe to assume that it will likely be followed by the song "L.O.V.E.," as it has a hook similar to Gwen Stefani's "Bananas." "Burning Up," with its attention-grabbing, reggae­like beat combined with Ashlee's raspy yet playful voice, is just one of few tracks that really stand out. "Coming Back for More" is a decent song, as its sounds a little bit closer the 


almost every one of the mellow songs on "lAmMe." 
Despite its lack of luster, the CD still debuted at number one on Billboard Charts. It is likely that some of the albums success can be attributed to top pop producer John Shank, who is also known to have put his musical touch on the CDs of female competitors Lindsay Lohan and Hillary Duff. Incidentally enough, however, when you have reached the status of a teenybopper elite, it really only takes a single catchy song and a hot new image to sell records. 
Recovering fi·om her lip-synched hoe­down on Saturday Night Live back in October 2004, Ashley returned for a sec­ond chance at the comedy sketch show this fall. It is debatable whether or not the singer redeemed herself in the most recent showcase. But, armed with two relatively easy-to-fake songs, Ashlee put on a so-so performance of "Boyfriend" and "Catch Me When I Fall." Luckily, an outstanding voice was not neeessary for tho style of either song. 
The perky celebrity had just enough stage presence to supplement her not quite singing, almost talking, mostly raspy voice. This is unfortunate for those who pick up the CD and are looking for tho same generally-upbeat personality she shows stage. 
Most dedicated Ashlnn Simpson fans have likely already purchased the sec­ond CD. As a hint for those who are still debating -bypass the CD for a few cheap !tune downloads. 
Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 10, 2005 
NBA 
Clippers hand Washington first loss of season 
Krstic leads New Jersey over Utah; Hornets suffer first loss in Oklahoma City 
Associated Press "You know what his game was Vince Carter, Richard Jefferson tonight, it was spectacular," and Jason Kidd also con­
WASHINGTON Elton Maggette said. "He did every­tributed. Carter scored 21 Brand's latest double-double thing tonight. That's what great points, and Jefferson barely ended Washington's unbeaten players do. missed the second triple-double start. "I know it's only our fourth of his career with 17 points, 12 
Brand scored 31 points on 14 game in, but I think this is an assists and nine rebounds. Kidd of 18 shooting and grabbed 13 opportunity this year for him to finished with 11 points and rebounds, and the Los Angeles make the All-Star team again seven assists. Clippers handed the Wizards cleanly without all the dilly­It was Carter's passing and their first loss of the season with dally. We just need to keep this Krstic's finishing ability that a 102-97 victory Wednesday up and play together as a team." helped the Nets stop a Utah rally night. Forward Antawn Jamison in the fourth quarter. With the 
Brand's double-double was blamed the Wizards' lack of Jazz whittling a 15-point lead to the 181 st of his career, tying defensive intensity for the loss, nine, Carter drove the lane and him with Loy Vaught for the but he wasn't taking anything kicked the ball out to Krstic. The Clippers' franchise record. away from Brand's effort. 7-foot center sank a 17-foot 
"They've got some big, talent­"We didn't play smart and we jumper to give New Jersey an ed guys who love to bang, so I didn't defend at all," Jamison 82-71 lead with S:llleft. was having to fight for every said. "Those are the things that When Deron Williams' 3­shot," Brand said. "I was hitting we did the first three nights and pointer pulled the Jazz within them, but I had to fight for every it's hard to explain why all of a eight at 84-76 with 3:36 left, one. sudden it happened tonight." Carter dribbled to the foul line 
"Coach was calling my num­and found Krstic underneath for ber. If he keeps calling those Nets 91, Jazz 83 a reverse layup that pushed the plays, I'm going to keep putting The New Jersey Nets' Big lead back to 10. Utah never got them up, for sure." Three might soon increase by closer than seven points again, 
Corey Maggette finished with one. and that came with 24 seconds 20 points, six rebounds and Nenad Krstic scored a season­left. three assists. Cuttino Mobley high 18 points on 7 -for-9 shoot­"He was big," Carter said of made the go-ahead basket and ing Wednesday night, including the second-year pro from added 15 points and six assists two big baskets in the fourth Serbia-Montenegro whose con­for the Clippers. quarter that helped the Nets tinued development is one of the 
The talk in the Clippers' lock­maintain a double-digit lead in keys to the Nets' success this er room, however, was about an eventual win over Utah. season. "He's shooting with con­Brand. New Jersey's talented trio of fidence and attacking the rim. 
He's making himself harder to guard because he's a big guy who has pretty good skills in the post, and he can also step out City. fouled with 8.5 seconds left. He and shoot the ball." After DeShawn Stevenson's hit both free throws to put 
Krstic is considered the player layup gave the Magic a 79-69 Orlando up 86-81. most likely to benefit from the lead, the Hornets came charging After Claxton hit a jumper in attention paid to his three more back, going on a 10-3 run. the lane with four seconds left, celebrated teammates, and he Speedy Claxton, who finished Francis hit two free throws to has taken advantage lately: in with 24 points, hit back-to-hack seal the win. his last four games he's shot 22-baskets and his free throw with New Orleans had won its sea­for-43 (51 percent). He scored 1:23 left pulled New Orleans son opener against Sacramento 10 of his points in the first quar­within three, 82-79. 93-67 in Oklahoma City on Nov. ter Wednesday, four on two Francis put back Jameer 1. dunks off passes by Jefferson Nelson's miss on Orlando's next It was the highest scoring out­and Kidd. possession to put the Magic put of the season for Orlando, 
back up by five. which entered the game averag­Magic 88, Hornets 83 David West scored to close the ing a league-low 79.5 points. 
Steve Francis scored 24 gap back to 84-81, but New The crowd of 18,508 -655 points to help the Orlando Magic Orleans couldn't get a stop on fans short of a second straight beat New Orleans on the other end. sellout -had little to cheer Wednesday night for the Stevenson came down with a about as the Hornets fell behind Hornets' first loss in Oklahoma Francis miss before getting early by 11 points. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07 
NOTICES SCHOOL YEAR. CLOSE TO CAM­
PUS. 4 BEDROOMS. UP TO 10 SPRING BREAKERS Book Early BEDROOMS. CALL 315-5032 ASK and Save Lowest Prices Hottest FOR KRAMER. Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE TRIPS OR CASH FREE KRAMER PROPERTIES HAS 1 MEALS/PARTIES BY 11n Highest SINGLE FAMILY HOME AVAIL-Commission Best Travel Perks ABLE. 140 N.SHORE BLVD. 3 www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800-BEDROOMS,1.5 BATHS. GREAT 426-7710 FOR PROFESSORS,STAFF, OR 
GRAD STUDENTS. CALL315­1-bedroom apt 1-mile from NO in 5032, ASK FOR KRAMER. quiet historic neighborhood, For rent: 
Two story house 
cornpletely remodeled 2003. 
Ready for immediate occupancy or 
next semester or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for 
security. Four individually locked bedrooms, 

908 SB Ave: Roomy 6-7 bdrm  289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB·  Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica  
home 4 blocks to NO. 2 baths, w/d,  SITE FOR$$:  
broadband internet incl.  www. victorytickets.com  From $499!  
Avail. 06-07 & 07-08 school year.  
327 Hill St:  BUYING & SELLING NO FOOT- Campus Reps Needed!  
NEED A HOME TODAY?  BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES.  PromoCode:31  
NEED A SECOND CHANCE?  www.springbreaktravel.com  
Very nice 3 bdrm home.  
Close to NO & Corbys. Broadband  PERSONAL  1-800-678-6386  

internet option.  
WID & alarm system avail.  I think it's good business practice  
Move in today.  HAPPY  actually.  
Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 or  BIRTHDAY,  
ernail  CHRISTINA  And you agree with that? I think  
JCrimmins@ myLandGrant.com  GINARDI!!!!!  you're crazy!  
HOUSES FOR RENT  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  Doyyyyle  
2,3,4,5,6 bdrms  
Do not go it alone.  Thhhhe University of Notre Dame  
includes all utilities,  proudly presents its marching band!  
If you or someone you love needs  The Band of the Fighting Irish!  
local phone,washer/dryer,security  confidential support or assistance,  
system.  Dude I dunno who they were  
please call  
$400/student.  Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, at 1-7819.  Not since Oregon State's Terry  
Baker was the reigning Heisman  
57 4-315-2509  For more information,  Trophy winner has Navy beaten  
Notre Dame. That's one heck of a  
ndstudentrentals.com  see our bi-weekly ad in  stat huh Kevin Tracy?  
2006 SPRING SEMESTER  

$575/month. Call 283-0325 GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH­BORHOODS 06/07 & 07/08 andersonNDrentals.com 574-233­
FoR RENT 9947 
YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart-3-6 bdrm homes for 06/07. Also ments available for 06-07 school avail.now. 574-329-0308. 
year. Call today 235-7234. 
RENTAL FOR 2ND SEMESTER Rooms in private home for rent dur-beautiful newly constructed 1 or 2 ing NO football weekends or other bedroom Dublin Village Townhouse ND-SMC events. across from SMC. 570-220-9296. 
Call 243-0658. 
Furnished 1 bedroom condo (Ivy WALK TO SCHOOL Residential/Jamison) 11/21/06­2-6 BEDROOM HOMES May,2006. Call Mary Anne Benedict MMMRENTALS.COM 607-723-7363 or 607-770-0944. 532-1408 
2 bdrm,furn house, sleeps 5. House for rent. 3 BR, 1 BA, 2 Car Gar. Clay Area. Week/weekend (2 day min.) $700/mo. 574-210-8308. New Carlisle area (574)514-1669. 
central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student hous­ing, 
Laundromat next door, basement available for storage of bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove . and refrigerator, large living room for TV or enter­taining, free trash removal. 
Call 289-4071. 
123 NO Ave. 3 bdrm, 
1.5 bath. Call574-229-0149. 
TICKETS 

WANTED: NO FOOTBALL TIX. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. 
FOR SALE: NO FOOTBALL TIX. THE OBSERVER. Audrey is hot 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! Make out with Meg, Kerri, Matt or Andrew 
5 Days from $299! 

There's one thing I know ... Includes Meals, MTV Celebrity Parties! Ray is not cool. 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, November 10, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 15 
NFL AFC East 

tmun rr.eord New England 4·4 Buffalo 3·5 Miami 3·5 N.Y. Jets 2·6  pere. PF .500 180 .375 128 .375 146 .250 118  PA 220 159 151 171  
AFC North  
trmm record Cincinnati 7-2 Pittsburgh 6-2 Cleveland 3·5 Baltimore 2·6  perc. PF .778 210 .750 189 .375 114 .250 97  PA 134 124 136 141  
AFC South ltmm record perc. PF  PA  
Indianapolis 8-0 Jacksonville 5·3 Tennessee 2-7 Houston 1-7  1.000 229 .625 150 .222 175 .125 107  98 139 231 216  
AFC West  
lPam record  perc. PF  PA  
Denver 6·2 Kansas City 5·3 San Diego 5·4 Oakland 3·5  .750 201 .625 196 .556 252 .375 185  152 183 192 185  
NFC East  
lPaIll rec:ord  pnrc. PF  PA  
N.Y. Giants 6·2 Dallas 5·3 Washington 5·3 Philadelphia 4·4  .750 233 .625 181 .625 152 .500 173  143 137 149 184  
NFC North  
tr.am rm~ord  perc. PF  PA  
Chicago 5·3 Detroit 3·5 Minnesota 3·5 Green Bay 1-7  .625 139 .375 131 .375 130 .125 168  98 152 207 159  
NFC South  
team l't)eord Atlanta 6·2 Carolina 6·2 Tampa Bay 5·3 New Orleans 2·7  pewc. PF .750 192 .750 220 .625 140 .222 142  PA 143 163 121 242  
NFC West  
learn rtlcord Seattle 6·2 St. Louis 4·4 Arizona 2·6 San Francisco 2·6  pore. PF .750 214 .500 208 .250 146 .250 117  PA 146 231 211 246  
BCS Rankings  

No. Tnam UCS Avg 
1 usc .9802 2 Texas .9765 3 Alabama .8814 4 Miami .8805 5 Penn State .8136 6 Virginia Tech .7540 7 LSU .6987 8 Ohio State .6632 g Georgia .6313 10 Oregon .6272 11 NOTRE DAME .6065 12 Texas Tech .5425 
around the dial 
NBA Houston at Miami 8:00p.m., TNT Detroit at Phoenix 10:30 p.m., TNT 
COLLEGE FOOTBALL Boise State at Fresno State 8:00 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA FOOTBALL 


Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -A pair of tough-to-catch freshmen kept No. 16 West Virginia out of reach in the Big East. 
Pat White ran for 111 yards Wednesday night, taking off on quarterback draws that set up Steve Slaton's four touchdowns and a 38-0 victory over Cincinnati and its one-step­slow defense. 
The Mountaineers (8-1, 5-0) are in position to clinch the conference title heading into their final reg­ular-season games against 
IN BRIEF 

Pittsburgh and South Florida, its closest pursuer with one conference loss. 
Last year, West Virginia also was in position to win the title outright, but lost its last two games and then its Gator Bowl appearance against Florida State. The emphasis has been on avoiding another fade. 
White, Slaton and one of the nation's toughest defense led the Mountaineers to their most lopsided victory of the sea­son and their first shutout since 2002. 
White, a redshirt fresh­man making his second 
start in place of banged up Adam Bednarik, spent the night tormenting the nation's youngest defense. He ran straight up the mid­dle on draws, turned upfield on option fakes, and took oiT on passing plays. 
Cincinnati (4-5, 2-3) couldn't contain him or catch up with him. His runs of 17, 34 and 13 yards sparked three first-half touchdown drives. Slaton, a first-year freshman, fin­ished them with runs of 4, 
1 and 9 yards for  a  21-0  
halftime lead.  
The  only  thing  that  

slowed the Mountainenrs' 

offense was a 10-minute power outage in the first quarter. 
Some of the light stands went out while W1~st Virginia had the ball at midfield. Once the game resumed, West Virginia scored again. 
Slaton has been West Virginia's biggest surprise this season, taking over the tailback job after Pernell Williams and Jason Colson fell out of favor. 
lie scored six toueh­downs in a triple-overtime victory over Louisville that put the Mountaineers in control of thn eonfnnmee. 
Shoulder injury sidelines 
Colts' Doss 
INDIANAPOLIS -Starting safety Mike Doss missed praetice for the Indianapolis Colts with a right shoulder injury Wednesday. 
A sling covered Doss' shoulder and right arm against New England, and eoach Tony Dungy said the Colts were waiting for a second opinion before announcing any details. If he cannot play Sunday against Houston, the Colts will start Joseph Jefferson. 
Jefferson started the opening game of the season, which Doss missed because he was suspended by the league for violating the league's personal conduct policy. 
Among the others missing practice were NFL sacks leader Hobert Mathis (toe). starting right guard Jake Scott (back) and linebacker Cato June (sports hernia). All, including Doss, are listed as proba­ble. 
Backup linebacker Hob Morris also sat out with a head injury that was causing him to lose his balance. lie is listed as questionable. 

Backup defensive end Jonathan Welsh missed part of practice al'ter injuring his knee, and Dungy said he was nxpeeted to have an MHI Wednesday night.
Truex Jr. looks to wrap 
up Busch Series Title 
PIIOENIX -Martin Truex Jr. can wrap up his second straight NASCAH Busch Series championship Saturday at Phoenix International Hacoway if he increases his lead to 106 points over second-place Clint Bowyer. 
Truex, who goes into Phoenix leading Bowyer by 84 points, also would guarantee another title if he gains 72 points. Then, all he would have to do is start the season finale the next week at Homestead-Miami Speedway. 
''I'm out here to do the best job I can do," Truex said, after finishing 11th last Saturday at Texas. ''I'm really excited about going to Phoenix and Homestead." 
So is Bowy1~r. who has slieed into Truex's lead with a win at Mmnphis and snvnnth-plaee finish at Texas. 
"I think Phoenix is going to be rnal­ly good," Bowyer said. "After llw things we did to the ear at Mmnphis. I am really nxeited about going to Phoenix this weekend." NBA fines Lawrence Frank $25,000 
NEW YOHK -Nnw .Jersey Nets coach Lawrence Frank was fined $25,000 by the NBA on Wednesday for failing to leave the court in a timely matter after Monday's loss at Miami. 
Frank was also cited for verbal abuse of a game official by Stu Jackson, the NBA's senior vice presi­dent of basketball op1~rations. 
Frank was upset that .Jason Kidd was called !'or a foul with 5.2 seconds left, and Dwyane WadP made a lhw throw to give the Ileal a 90-89 lead. 
Frank then thought Wade fouled Vince Carter at thn buzzer, and ran halfway across the court to plead his case. 
Thursday, November 10, 2005 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
BOXING 

Klitschko's career coming to a close 

Associated Press at Ali. The champ responded by pointing to his own head and moving his finger in a cir­
WASHINGTON cle around his ear. The crowd Muhammad Ali, his hands laughed. When he sat down, shaking and eyes reflecting the Ali made the same gesture White House chandeliers, again. accepted the nation's highest Ali was one of 14 luminaries civilian award from President to receive the award Bush on Wednesday. Wednesday. On stage, he sat 
Bush called him "the next to actress Carol Burnett. Greatest of All Time" and "a Other winners included golfer man of peace," and tied the Jack Nicklaus, baseball great 
Presidential  Frank Robinson,  
Medal  of  singer  Aretha  
Freedom around the former heavy­weight champi­on's neck.  "The real mystery, I guess, is how he stayed so pretty.,  Franklin and Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan.  
It was Ali's first  Calling Ali "a  
public appear­ance in months, six days after  George W. Bush president  fierce and a peace,  fighter man of Bush  

undergoing back surgery in Atlanta. Wobbly from the effects of Parkinson's disease, the 63-year-old Ali at times had to applaud with his left hand clenched in a fist, and now and then appeared to have trouble sitting up in his seat. 
But when it came time to accept his medal, Ali stood proudly in his black suit and red, yellow and black tie, embraced the president and whispered in his ear. The pres­ident pretended to take a jab said Ali's fight­
ing style would be studied for years but defy imitation. 
"The real mystery, I guess, is how he stayed so pretty," Bush said. Mugging for the crowd, Ali lifted his eyebrows and ran his hands over his face. The audience of dignitaries, includ­ing Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld, former Supreme Court nominee Harriet Miers and White House adviser Karl Rove, laughed. Bush added: "It probably had to do with his beautiful soul." 
Standing together on the East Room dais, Bush and Ali made a historically curious pair. During the Vietnam War, their politics couldn't have been further apart: Bush sup­ported the war, spending his eligible years in Texas and Alabama with the Air National Guard. 
Ali, as a conscientious objec­tor, refused to serve and went to jail for avoiding the draft. Outspoken and proud of his beliefs, he became a hero to the black nationalist move­ment. In 1975, he was fea­tured in Parliament's "Chocolate City," a funk vision of black power that prophe­sied: "Don't be surprised if Ali is in the White House ... and Miss Aretha Franklin, the first lady." 
Born Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr. in Louisville, Ky., in 1942, Ali learned to fight after hav­ing his bicycle stolen as boy. He retired in 1981 with a 56-5 record, 3 7 knockouts and a gold medal from the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, having successfully defended his title 19 times. 
He changed his name after joining the Nation of Islam as a follower of Elijah Muhammad and Malcolm X. He later converted to Sunni Islam. 
Heavyweight champ ready to hang up his gloves; retiring at 34 
Associated Press 
FRANKFURT, Germany ­Facing a six-month recovery after tearing a ligament in his right knee, WBC heavyweight champion Vitali Klitschko came to a tough realization: It was time to retire. 
"Unfortunately, I've been fighting injuries recently more than facing rivals in the ring," Klitschko said Wednesday in a statement. "The decision to end was hard to make. But I would like to end my career on top and with my retirement make the way free for my suc­cessor." 
The 34-year-old Klitschko pulled out of Saturday's title defense against Hasim Rahman in Las Vegas because he hurt his knee last week in training. The WBC said earlier this week that Rahman would be given Klitschko's title should the Ukrainian fail to defend it within three months. 
On Wednesday, WBC presi­dent Jose Sulaiman said the organization's Board of Governors will now vote on awarding the title to Rahman, who was more than ready to accept it. 
"I am thrilled that WBC pres­ident Jose Sulaiman is keeping his promise to me by conven­ing his Board of Governors to automatically upgrade me from interim champion to again become the undisputed WBC heavyweight champion," Rahman said. 
Klitschko's statement said the knee was examined Tuesday, and that he under­went arthroscopic surgery in Inglewood, Calif. 
"He was very dejected," Klitschko's personal manager Bernd Boente said. 
Bob Arum, who was sup­posed to promote Saturday's Klitschko-Rahman fight, said he talked to Klitschko Tuesday night and tried to talk him out of retiring. But he said Klitschko had no desire to go on. 
"He said he was 34 and his body was betraying him," Arum said. "He didn't want to put up with these betrayals from his own body anymore." 
The 6-foot-8 Klitschko, who made only one title defense, sometimes had an awkward, stiff style, but packed a power­ful punch, especially in his right hand. 
His retirement means the Klitschko brothers won't real­ize their ambition to share the heavyweight championship. 
It also means the top heavy­weight champions are all con­trolled by promoter Don King, who said he wanted Rahman to defend the title against James Toney and for the winner to join the other title holders in a tournament to crown a real heavyweight champion. 
Wladimir Klitschko, Vitali's younger brother, got back into contention in the division when he beat Samuel Peter in a unanimous decision in September in an IBF elimina­tion bout. The victory made Wladimir the mandatory chal­lenger to IBF champion Chris Byrd. 
Vitali, who hadn't fought since stopping Danny Williams in the first defense of his title last December, was first sup­posed to have met Rahman in April. 
But the fight was postponed when Klitschko pulled a thigh muscle, and initial attempts to reschedule it were stopped when he injured his back. 
Sulaiman said earlier this week that the latest cancella­tion was the fourth time Klitschko (35-2, 34 knockouts) has backed out of a fight with Rahman (41-5-1 , 33 KOs), and hinted that he might be looking for excuses to stay out of the ring with the American. 
Rahman, a former heavy­weight champion, grew so tired of waiting to meet the Ukrainian that he fought Monte Barrett in August. He won on a decision to become the WBC interim champion. 
Klitschko is the second WBC heavyweight champion in a row to retire while holding the title. Lennox Lewis quit in February 2004 after beating Klitschko in his last fight. Klitschko's other loss, when he also was forced to quit because of an injury, came in April 2000 to Byrd. 
Lewis was the first reigning world heavyweight champion to quit since Rocky Marciano in 1956. The only other fighter to do so was Gene Tunney. 

Ali earns highest civilian award 

av November 12 IRISH vs. at10:00am 
.·~~~~~ 
DUADiber13 RISHvs. at 2:00pm 
lliill3~ 

Thursdav Nove IRISH BowlingG 
OOJ5]1Effi]lliffi3w~~ 
8J(Ij[]JJJ]@~ '{}.a ~ 
NOmEDAME ........... 
HDUtAL CII'F.DIT UNION 

Fridav Novembe IRISH vs. Bowling Green at 
OOJ5JBIDJ)lliffi3 ~ 
01iiiTtJlDCffil1!lB~Drl 
Thursday, November 10, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NFL 
Holmes to miss rest of 2005 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY. Mo. -Kansas City Chiefs running back l'rinst llolrnns will miss tlw n~st of the snason bncausn of lwad and ru~ck trauma diagnosnd by thrnn exports on spinal injuries. 
A hnlnwt-to-hnlrnet blow he absorlwd on Od. :w against San Dingo was Uw most rncnnt prob­~~~m for tlw 32-ymtr-old running hack. But coaeh Dick Vernwil said Wmlrwsday signs ol' trouble nrst showed up whnn llolrnns dPvnlopnd tingling in his hands during training camp. 
llolmns, 32, a throe-limn Pro Bowlnr whoso h6 touchdowns lwtwonn 2002-2004 arn an NFL roconl liJr any thrnn-ynar span, was plact~d on injured rosnrve. Doctors had roeommondnd he avoid any contact at all for a minimum of 30 days. 
lin is not incapacitated and no surgnry is plannnd, said general rnanagnr Carl Peterson. 
"It's a lwad trauma and a nnck trauma that has al'f'eeted tlw eorvir.al arna of his spine," l'ntnrson said. "But he's not ineapadtatnd. There's no reason for surgnry." 
A statnrnnnt from Dr. .Jon Browne. tho Chief's' team physi­cian, said no pnrrnannnt darn­agn had ot~eurrnd either to the lwad or neck and that Holmes would bn rn-evaluated in 30 days. 
f>ptnrson also said doctors wnrn not concnrnnd about the possibility of paralysis should llolmes continue playing, and that llolmes indicated he planned to resume his career next season. 

Injuries have caused the Chiefs' earet~r rushing leader to cut short two of' his last three seasons. But he has shown !lashes of his old self while rush­ing for 451 yards and six touch­downs on 119 earries. He also bas 21 catches for 197 yards, including a Ml-yard catch-and­run for a touchdown in a victory over Washington on Oct. 16. 
"We're going to miss him," Vermeil said. "lie's more than a football player for this organiza­lion." 
Vermeil said there seemed no reason for undue concern when Holmes experienced the tingling in training camp. 
"We did know he started get­ting what we say 'burners' onee in a while, a tingling in his fin­gers from some hits, which are very, very eommon," Vermeil said. "Guys get burners in the first quarter and play the rest of the game. But he had never experienced that in his career. 
"Then I think the blow to the head in San Diego stimulated more concern. It wasn't a true concussion, but he did get knocked dizzy." 

Indianapolis not too interested in Ovvens 
Loudmouth Philly receiver not welcome on Dungy's ball club 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Tony Dungy thinks Terrell Owens has a future in the NFL but not with the Indianapolis Colts. 

Dungy said Wednesday he thought another team would likely sign Owens if, or when, he is released by the Philadelphia Eagles. But count the Colts out ol' the sweepstakes. 
"We put a premium here on guys that arc team guys," Dungy said after praetiee. "I don't know the guy at all, but from what I've seen from a dis-with tlw Eaglns. Johnson was deactivated for thn Buel~aJwnrs final six games in 2003 artnr nunplaining pub­licly about his role in tlw oiTtmse. 
But Dungy said hn had few problmns with thn outspoknn .Johnson wlwn tlw Bucs wnrP winning. 
"If we won and hn caught one ball, he'd nnvnr say a word," Dungy said. "But when we lost, lw'd comn into my office and say 'I could hdp dn this or I t~ould hnlp do that."' 
Owens' track record, though. is diiTorent. 
In 2004, Owens forced thn San Franeisco 4CJers to tradt~ him, first to Baltimore, and when he refused to report to the Havens, the 4CJers eventu­ally sent him to Philadelphia. 
Last winter, 
Owens eriti­

tance, he doesn't ciznd quartnr­
"We put a premium 
seem to be a back Donovan
here on guys that 
team guy at all." McNabb for 
The Colts (8-0) are team guys. " being tired dur­are hardly in ing the fourth need of wide quarter of thn
Tony Dungy 
receivers any­Super Bowl and
Indianapolis coach 
way. 
They already have six-time Pro Bowler Marvin llarrison, emerging star Heggie Wayne and Brandon Stokley. All three topped 1,000 yards and caught at least 10 touch­downs last year. becoming the first NFL trio to achieve that feat. 
But even if the Colts were looking for a receiver, Dungy acknowledged, his interest in Owens would be minimal. 
"Most offensive players want the ball more and everyone wants to play more, and you understand that," Dungy said. "Even holding out, that's a business deeision and you understand that. What we don't want are guys who would put themselves above the team." 
Dungy has dealt with explo­sive personalities before. 
During his final two sea­sons in Tampa Bay, Keyshawn Johnson was the Buccaneers featured receiver. Johnson was in the same sit­uation with Tampa that Owens finds himself in now 
then spent the 
summer cam­

paigning for a new eontraet. At training camp, he got into a heated dispute with Eagles eoach Andy Heid and was sent home for a week. 
Last week, Ownns com­plained that the Eagles organization didn't. publicly reeognizn his 1 OOth earner touchdown and said Philadelphia would be bPttnr ofT with Brott Favre at quar­terbaek. lin drnw a four­game suspension l'or his antics. and Hcid said lw would be deactivated the rest of' the season. 
lin apologized on Tuesday in hopns tho Eagles would takn him back. 
Dungy believes some team will give Owens another chance. 
"We're a league enamored with talent, and Terrell is dnf'­initely a talented guy," Dungy said. "I think thorn will be a number of' pnople who will say they'll take a ehanec on talent. But that would be out of character for us." 

Write Sports. Call 1-4543. 
Why? 

United for Pakistani Earthquake Relief 
More than 75,600 (17,000 children) killed Another 10,000 children at risk ofdying due to terrain inaccessibility 20,000 children will have physical impairments and the numbers are increasing daily! 
Information Forthcoming 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, November 10, 2005 
MLB 
Lavvyers for Palrneiro release nevv statement 
Disgraced star takes 
responsibility for Jailed steroid test 
Associated Press WASHINGTON Hafael Palmeiro took responsibility Wednesday for his failed steroid test but offered a possible excuse hinging on a tainted vita­min shot, giving his first public explanation on the eve of a con­gressional report into whether he lied under oath. In a statement released by his lawyers, the former Baltimore Orioles slugger acknowledged several facts that already had been .reported, including that Palmeiro had raised the possibil­ity that a shot of vitamin B-12 he was given by a teammate and took in April "might have been the cause" of the positive drug test that led to his 10-day sus­pension by Major League Baseball. "Everything I have been work­ing for all my life -to play the game that I love with dignity and earn the respect and admiration of my colleagues and fans -has been changed by my suspension. For this, I alone take full respon­sibility," Palmeiro said in the statement. "I have never inten­tionally taken steroids. But I must also acknowledge that stanozolol, a banned substance, was found in my system in May." When he testified before the
-
House Government Reform Committee on March 17, along­side Mark McGwire, Jose Canseco and others, Palmeiro jabbed a finger in the air and said: "I have never used steroids. Period." On Aug. 1, Palmeiro became the highest­profile player suspended by Major League Baseball under its new steroids policy. 
Two days later, Government Reform Committee chairman Tom Davis, R-Va., said the panel would open an investigation into whether Palmeiro committed perjury. A report on that investi­gation will be released Thursday, and staffers for Davis and the committee's ranking Democrat, Henry Waxman of California, wouldn't comment on the report's contents or Palmeiro's statement. 
Major League Baseball execu­tive vice president Rob Manfred also declined comment. 
Palmeiro's lawyers posted on the Web a series of documents, including a detailed accounting of his statistics and quotations from baseball players lauding his power. l-Ie's one of four play­ers in baseball history with 500 homers and 3,000 hits _ and the timing of his positive test means Palmeiro knew he faced a sus­pension as he approached the hit milestone this summP.r. 
"Nobody is more frustrated and disappointed in me than I am.... All my accomplishments are now tainted," Palmeiro said. 
"I deeply regret the pain I have caused my family, my teammates, my fans and the game of baseball. I am sorry for the distraction that I have caused to the Orioles clubhouse and the League. I remain opposed to the use of steroids by athletes," he added. 
Palmeiro's case has been cited as one of the reasons that law­makers have continued to pur­sue legislation to mandate tougher rules for steroid testing and harsher penalties for posi­tive tests in baseball and other major professional sports leagues. 
A bill calling for a half-season ban for a first steroid offense, a full-season ban for a second offense, and a lifetime ban for a third reached the floor of the Senate. 
But a spokesman for one of the bill's sponsors, Sen. Jim Bunning, R-Ky., said Wednesday that an unidentified senator placed a hold on the bill, mean­ing it's stalled indefinitely. 
According to Palmeiro's lawyers, he tested negative for steroids in 2003 and 2004; after he was informed he failed a test in May, he took a second test that month, which was negative. 


C:::c-rne and .:0 c-Y Live Aa6.uslc:: and Grea't. re-e-d in ~vernber at. 
~ffVffl&~ 
FOOTBALL FRIOAY•a @'FEVER 
4TH fo.ppETITE FOR DESTRUCTION 11TH FREAJ•CBOX 18TH EAROASM 
25TH DANGEROUS .JIM POST 
DoORS OPEN @' 9 $ 1 Af.JD $2 DRINK SPECIALS 222 SoUTH M tCHtGAN ST.• SOUTH BENO '\N\IVW. CLUBFE\IER. BiZ "iV'VVVV. 222tTAUANSTEAJ<:HOUSE.COM 
Sox manager wins award 
Guillen led Chicago to first World Series title in 88 seasons 

Associated Press NEW YORK -The way Ozzie Guillen works a dugout, impa­tiently bouncing around and chattering away from the first pitch to the final out, it's hard to believe he ealls steady Bobby Cox a mentor. Different styles, both success­ful. Guillen was selected AL Manager of the Year on Wednesday, rewarded for guid­ing the Chicago White Sox to a stellar season that culminated with a World Series champi­onship. Cox became the first back-to-hack winner in either league, taking NL honors after leading the rookie-laden Atlanta Braves to yet another division title. "It's not easy to manage right now because there are a lot of players making big money, a lot of players with attitudes," Guillen said. "The type of play­ers I have in my clubhouse, those are the type of players that anyone can win with." Guillen played shortstop for 
Cox late in his career and said he learned a lot during those days in Atlanta. Yet on the sur­
face, the two appear to have little in common other than these awards. 
Cox has seen just about everything during 24 years as a major league manager and knows by now to keep an even keel throughout the long sea­son. 
Guillen was so torn up by tough losses this year that he 
""" The Program of Liberal Studies ~ 
Life after PLS? 



Hear Front PLS Alunts Thurs. Nov. lOth 
7-9 PM Co-Mo Lounge 
Featuring: 
Rev. James McDonald (Ass't to the Pres.) Robert L. Jones, Jr. (ND Law School) Katie Ellgass (Medical Student) Kevin Becker (Financial Manager) Kimberly Pelis (History Professor) 


occasionally vomited in his office. ''I'm not a patient guy," he said. "''m going crazy a lot." 
But he'll never forget the les­sons he learned from Cox about how to communicate with players. 
"There's nothing better than to be around that man because he will teach you how to han­dle things on the field and off the field," Guillen said. 
And Cox was delighted that he and Guillen were honored together. 
"He did a super, splendid job," the Braves' manager said. "I thought he was the right guy for that job." 
Guillen received 17 first­place votes, five seconds and five thirds for 105 points in bal­loting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. Eric Wedge of the Cleveland Indians was the runner-up with six first-place votes and 71 points, while Joe Torre of the New York Yankees came in third with 43 points. 
Oakland's Ken Macha also got a first-place vote and fin­ished fourth. 
Cox was listed first on 28 bal­lots and second on the other four to win by a whopping 100 points. 

~-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-----­
Thursday, November 10, 2005 
MLB 
Con1n1issioner backs Congress' drug plan 
Selig will examine record book, says changes are unlikely 
Aswciated Press 
INDIAN WI·:I.I.S, Calif. ­

Baseball commissiorwr Bud 
Snlig supports revisnd con­
gn~ssional lngislalion that. 
would suspPnd players for a 
half-season following a first 
f'ailnd stProids test. 
SPiig said negotiators for owners and players have made progress in talks but. still haven't roadwd an agroo­mont on a nnw drug deal. Tho length of' llw initial peiHtlty appears to be tho biggest obstadn. 
"While it's prdnrabln for us to solve our problems, if' this go(~S alwad, llwn I said I'd support it, and I will." he said W(q(Jwsday during a news confnreiH~e af'lnr his annual address to major lnagw~ gen­eral m<u1agers. 
Selig also maintained his opposition to using instant replay to rnviow umpiros' (:ails, even whilo acknowlndg­ing that during the postseason tlwro worn "some ineidnnls that cnrtainly nned to bo looknd at." 
"If you gilt into instant replay, you're going to havn games that just go on endless­ly. And that isn't in anybody's lwst interest," ho said. "And wlwrn do you stop and whnrn do you start it?" 
Much of' his news confnr­nnco was dnvotnd to steroids. 
Snn. Jim Bunning, a former pitcher who is in the llall of Famn, introducnd legislation along with Son. John McCain that calls for a half-year sus­pension for an initial positive, a one-year ban for a second f'ailml test and a lifetime ban for a third. Tho bill. which would apply to Major Leaguo Baso ball, tim NFL. NBA, Nlll. and baseball's minor leagues, urg(~S Ioagu es to wi po out rncords achieved with tho help of' porformance-onhanc­ing drugs. 
Solig said he was willing to (~xaminn that after a new drug agroonwnt is in place but also said thorn was little liknlihood records would bo orasod. 
"There's bmm a lot of innu­ondo, tlwro's been a lot of fin­ger-pointing. thoro's bonn a lot of' accusation, but with no nmpirical data to support it," lw said. 
Selig eompared allngations of' steroid usn with those made by Snn. Joseph McCarthy toward alleged communists in tho 11J50s. 
"Thoro's got to be fairness, and thorn's got to be decency horn," Selig said. "And if I'm overprotnctive of players, whkh somn say I am, so be it. Thnn that's what I'll be." 
Under the plan agreed to narlier this year, players are susponded 10 days for an ini­tial positive, 30 for a second, (>0 for a third and onn year for a fourth. Selig proposed in April that the penalties bn increased to 50 games for a lirst oll'nnse, 100 for a second and a lifotimn ban for a third. 
~ 
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•e 


(;Q ........ Itfi:C: OM e GAY ANll L•SlltAN e STOD~NT N!:t::D:S 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

WAC moves into spotlight 
Fresno State, Boise State face off to decide conference championship 
Associated Press 
FHESNO, Calif. -For all of Pat Hill's remarkable successes during his nine seasons at Frnsno Statn, the coach knows thorn's a blue-and-orango eloud hanging over the lastlivo years. 
The 20th-ranked Bulldogs can only chase it away with a victo­ry ovnr Boise State on Thursday night in the most antieipatnd Western Athletie Conference game in many years. Thn stakes arn big and stark: Tho confer­ence title probably will be deeidnd in front of' Bulldog Stadium's screaming snllout (Towd and a national telovision audience. 
And the losing school will a big hit -particularly il' Fresno State again fails to eomplete its toughest task. 
Ifill, no stranger to hyporbole, is betting the house on his Bulldogs' opportunity to erase a four-game losing streak and a burgeoning inferiority complex. 
"There hasn't been a bigger gamn in Bulldog Stadium in my ninn years, I'll tell you that," IIill said. "We're going to have the greatest crowd we (Wer had, and we're going to need thnm." 
Sur<"l, Hill's Bulldogs (7-1, 5-0 WAC) own a respncted national profile, a regular Top-25 rank­ing and one of the nation's bost success stories for a mid-major school. 
But Boise State has owned the Bulldogs ever since it traveled to Fresno in 2001 and ruined the Bulldogs' breakout unbeat­en season. 
llill, the ebullient architect of Fresno State's renaissance, turns melancholy whnn he 

University Resources : for Gay, Lesbian, & ••• • Bisexual Students 

•• The Standing Committee on Gay and 
•
• Lesbian Student Needs
•
• (Confidential information, education, and resources)
•
• 
Contact: Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, 1-5550, or student • members (see web site for student contact info.) • 
• Office of Campus Ministry • • (Annual retreat for gay/lesbian/questioning students • • and their friends; pertinent library resources in • • 304 Co-Mo~ confidential discussion and support) •• Contact: Fr. Dick Warner, C.S.C., at 1-9704 • 
•• University CoWiseling Center •
•

• (Individual counseling) • • Contact: Dr. Maureen Lafferty at Lafferty.3@nd.edu • 
• For more information. check out our web site: http://www.nd.edu/-scglsn/ • 
................................................
~ 


Fresno State running back Matt Rivera avoids San Jose State defenders Saturday. The Bulldogs will play Boise State Thursday. 
recalls that 35-30 defeat, which road losses at {;eorgia and catapultnd coach Dan Hawkins' Oregon State. Fn~sno State has dub to prominence while send­outscored its last 14 opponents ing then-No. 8 Fresno State into by more than 30 points por the first of four straight midsea­game, losing just once -at No. son tailspins. 11 Oregon by thrn(~ points. 
"They came in and took some­Two unbeaten WAC teams thing from us, and we've never haven't met this lato in tho sea­got it back," Hill said. son since 1 977. Whilo tho game 
Three morn victories in the is important to Boisn State, rivalry followed for the Broneos, many Bulldogs sen it as a lifn­who also won tho last three delining mornont -nvnn with a WAC titles. Boise Stato (7-2, 5-0) trip to top-ranknd Southern has won 31 straight confernnee California looming next w<wk. games in all -the longest "To me, Boise is a bigger streak in WAC history -and game than USC," rneniver Paul could vault back into the nation­Williams said. "Boise has al rankings with another win. spoiled our party too many 
"How can you eall it a rivalry times. I think this is tlw ynar. when we're 0-4?" llill asked. and from now on, we should "We'vn lost seven games in nine beat Boise. If everybody does years in Bulldog Stadium, and what they're suppos(~d to do. if' two of thnm were to Boise Stale . everybody eomns out on lirn on That's not a rivalry." off1mse, dnfnnsn and special 
Boise State, which went 11-1 teams, thern's no n~ason why in 2004, has won seven straight Boise State should oven lw in sincn opening the snason with the game." 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, November 10, 2005 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Nevv coach hopes to bring passion to Belles 
Bender coached high school basketball for more than 20 years 
By JAY FITZPATRICK Sports Writer 
For Steve Bender, coaching basketball is not his job -it's his life. 
Beginning in his childhood and continuing throughout his adolescent and adult life, the influence of basketball on the first-year Saint Mary's basket­ball coach has been constant. 
Growing up in Michigan, Bender would watch his father coach men's varsity basketball, and during this time, he fell in love with the game. 
But there was one problem preventing his wish to play the sport -Bender was born with club feet, a condition that forced him to endure sev­eral surgeries. It prevented him from most sports or phys­ical activities -including basketball. 
"I couldn't play basketball, but I wanted to stay involved in the game", Bender said. "I knew then that I wanted to coach." 
Throughout his high school and college careers, Bender has been an active presence on the court, learning the basics of coaching and devel­oping a further understanding of the game. 
At Niles High School in southeastern Michigan, 
Bender received his first side­line experience as the basket­ball team's manager. He then gained his first coaching posi­tion as a student assistant coach at Albion College, where he received his under­graduate degree. 
It was there that Bender first began to develop his coaching style. Under the tutelage of men's basketball coach Mike Turner, Bender learned how to coach basket­ball at a competitive level. 
After earning a Master's in Athletic Administration from Western Michigan University, Bender began teaching and coaching at Buchanan High School in Buchanan, Mich. Coaching both male and female teams, varsity and junior varsity and at head and assistant coaching positions, Bender fully developed his coaching strategies and game plans with fellow coach Bill Weaver. 
"I had known Bill for a long time," Bender said. "We grew up together and coached together for a long time at Buchanan. He helped me to develop the flex [style of play] I'm using now." 
While coaching high school basketball at Buchanan, Bender raised three daugh­ters, all of whom are now col­lege athletes. His eldest daughter, Lauren, attended Albion College where she played tennis, while his younger two daughters both play basketball. Ali is a soph­omore at Albion where she played basketball last year, and Shelly is a senior basket­ball player at Saint Mary's. 
In fact, Bender partially credits Shelly with his move to college basketball. 
Having been successful at Buchanan for 25 years, Bender was ready for a change. 
Because he had better expe­riences coaching girls in high school than boys, he knew he would want to coach a women's team in college. And since he had fallen in love with the Saint Mary's team and campus through his daughter, the college was a perfect fit for Bender to make the jump to college basket­ball. 
It is this intense love and dedication that Bender brings with him to Saint Mary's as he enters his first season with the Belles, a passion he hopes will inspire his team to win. 
Contact Jay Fitzpatrick at 
jfitzpa5@nd.edu 
Recruits 
continued from page 24 
process," Brey said. 
The head coach watched Harangody play for his Andrean High School team in Dec. 2004 and liked his tough­ness, ability to finish, size and offensive versatility. But Brey did not commit himself com­pletely until he saw Harangody play against more active and athletic AAU com­petition. 
"We went down and watched him play 11 games in two­and-a-half days in Houston, and he kicked everybody's butt in Houston," Brey said. "Just about everybody in the gym was scared of him. 
"From that point on, we made it very clear where we stood." 
Harangody led Andrean ­in Merrillville, Ind. -to the Gary Class 3A sectional cham­pionship and a 21-3 overall recurd in his junior season, averaging 23.2 points and 
12.3 rebounds. He shot 63.7 percent from the floor while becoming an all-state selec­tion of the Indiana Basketball Coaches Association (IBCA) and subsequently playing in the Indiana Senior-Junior All­star games. 
Brey described Jackson also as a tough player, but unlike Harangody-who has size the Irish lack -Jackson did not initially present Notre Dame with a commodity they did not already have. 
Jackson is a short, quick guard who can "break you down off the dribble," Brey said. 
The Buena Vista High School point guard and 2005 Michigan Class C Player of the Year averaged 30 points, eight rebounds, six assists and three steals in his junior sea­son. 

But Brey's character description and Jackson's stature and statistics all resemble those of a current Irish youngster. 
"Like [freshman point guard Kyle] McAlarney, he can score it, too," Brey said. "So playing them together is certainly an option." 
Brey said he saw Jackson play on the summer AAU cir­cuit in Las Vegas, Nev., with another Michigan native and Irish prospect, Tom Herzog, 
who  eventually  chose  
Michigan State over  Notre  
Dame.  

But then the Irish moved in on Jackson as other schools like Michigan, Michigan State and Florida pursued him; and Brey found that new NCAA regulations for earlier team practice made his decision on Jackson easier. 
"You're able to watch your team play a little bit more in the fall before you get out on the road and recruit in September now," Brey said. "As I'm looking around I'm thinking, 'I don't think we can get caught with just maybe one true ball-handler,' that being McAlarney. We did that with [Martin I Inglesby for a year. We did that with [Chris] Thomas for a year." 
Notre Dame has three schol­arships open for its next recruiting class, which can also be used to court trans­fers. 
Brey said Notre Dame will keep its eyes open but that coaches have had their focus on the junior class since July. 
Notes 
+ Brey joked that Jackson may have swayed him by, of all things, being the second youngest of 14 siblings. 
"If you're one of 14 children like this guy, I mean, do you think he's ever gonna lose a loose ball?" Bre.y said. "He's 
Unplanned Pregnancy? Don't go it alone. 
Ifyou or someone you love needs help or information, please call. 
Confidential Support & Assistance Available at Notre Dame: 
• 
Sr. Jean Lenz, O.S.F., Student Affairs, 1-7407 

• 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C., Student AtTairs, 1-7819 

• 
Sylvia Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
John Dillon, Campus Ministry, 1-7163 

• 
Dr. Susan Steibe-Pasalich, Counseling Center, 1-7336 

• 
Ann E. Kleva, Health Services, 1-8286 


South Bend Community Resources: 
• 
Women's Care Center: 234-0363 

• 
Catholic Charities: 234-3111 


never gonna lose a loose ball." 
+ Freshman point guard Kyle McAlarney will not play Friday night against Quincy due to lower back spasms. 
Brey called the setback "frustrating," particularly since he said McAlarney "felt he belonged" in the team's first exhibition game against Lewis University. The point guard had seven points, three assists and one turnover in 18 minutes last Thursday. 
"Anytime you have a low back, you're concerned," Brey said. "[But] I believe we can get him back. Hopefully we can get him back early next week to get him ready for our game [against Lafayette Nov. 20]." 
Brey said McAlarney has no history of back spasms in high school or in the past summer he spent in South Bend. 
"We had a little bit of a flare-up two weeks ago. He missed a day or two then was back for the week of practice and exhibition then flared up Saturday morning before we even got started," Brey said. "We just felt we're going to really try and calm this down now while we have time to hope it's not something we're dancing with all season." 
+ Senior forward Hick Cornett will play against Quincy Friday after sitting out Notre Dame's first exhibition game with a sore left ankle, Brey said. 
"I don't think he's 100 per­cent, but we've got to get him in there," Brey said. "He's been out a while. He's going to be a key guy, [and] we've got to get him in the mix." · 
Brey said Cornett participat­ed in most of Monday's prac­tice. He said Cornett would practice slightly more Tuesday and then go for a full practice Wednesday. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

1 
Thursday, November 10, 2005 page 21
The Observer + SPORTS 

I 
I 

Notre Dame center Melissa D'Amico takes a shot against Indianapolis Nov. 1. The Irish take on Ferris State Thursday at the Joyce Center. 
FYI 
University of Indianapolis. Notre Dame surrendered 23 points to guard Mandy Geryak, and McGraw said after that game she needed to get her team in shape. However, nine days removed, McGraw thinks the Irish are closer to where they need to be. 
"I thought we worked really hard this week to get them in shape," McGraw said. "So I feel better about that." 
The Irish will also benefit from the return of junior Breona Gray, who McGraw said will play after missing last week's game. Junior Crystal Erwin, who has been bothered by injury, is closer to 100 percent, McGraw said. 
"I think we're getting healthier," McGraw said. "And I think that's going to make a big difference." 
Notre Dame is led by senior All-American Megan Duffy, who had 18 points and 7 assists in 32 minutes against Indianapolis. Also playing last week was sophomore guard Tulyah Gaines. Gaines fin­ished with six points, six assists, four rebounds and three steals in 26 minutes of action. Sophomore Charel Allen made her debut last week after having surgery last spring to repair her ACL and MCL in her left knee, which she hurt at the end of last season. She finished with nine points and three rebounds in 16 minutes of action. 
However, McGraw is focused on other aspects of the game besides offense. 
''I'm not as concerned with the offense, I feel like we're where we need to be," McGraw said. "We just need to rebound better. That's real­ly the biggest thing right now." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
while you were out 

NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL RECRUITING 
McGraw scours Indiana for talent 
Bulldogs 
continued from page 24 
year with an injury. Miller is a familiar face at Notre Dame, as she worked the women's basketball camps on campus for several summers. 
Millnr shares the backcourt with junior guard Kristin Heinhart, who averaged 15.4 points and 3.7 rebounds per gamn last ynar. Heinhart, who hails from East Lansing, Mich., was the co-recipinnt of the team's Most Valuable Player Award last year while earning second team all-con­ference honors as well, despite missing the final eight games with an injury. 
The Bulldogs are hoping to get back to the form that led them to a 20-win season in 2003-04 and earned their fifth consecutive conference tour­nament berth under coach Tracey Bloodworth-Fisk, who was named the conference coach of the year that season. 
Meanwhile, the Irish are trying to improve on their performance against another Division-If school -the 
Three offour recruits for 2010 class hail from within the state 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
Muffet McGraw did not have to look very far to find the future of the Notre Dame women's basketball program. The Irish head coach received signed letters of intent from four high sehool seniors Tuesday, with three of the four recruits hailing from Indiana. 
The player traveling the shortest distance to Notre Dame is Melissa Lechlitner, the stand­out point guard from St. Joseph's High School in South Bend. Guard Ashley Barlow of Indianapolis' Pike lligh School and forward Danielle Ben­Tsvulun from Fort Wayne's Harding High Sehool are also staying in state to play for the Irish. Center Erica Williamson from Charlotte, N.C., rounds out the class. 
McGraw said she is very pleased with the group of signees. 
"I think this is one of the best classes that we've had -when you have the quality of player that we have and the skill level. 
"And I think we addressed our needs." 
One huge need area for Notre Dame is the point guard posi­tion, with second-year captain Megan Duffy set to graduate in May. McGraw believes Lechlitner is the perfect replacement for Duffy. 
"She's a right-handed Megan Duffy," McGraw said. "I think that she and [Duffy] have so much in common. They're both incredibly competitive. They hate to lose. They are the kind of leaders that their team really looks to." 
Like Duffy, Lechlitner is no stranger to aecolades. The point guard garnered all-state honors in each of her first three high school seasons. Lechlitner led St. Joseph's to tho Class 3A state title in 2005, averaging 
16.3 points and 6.3 assists per game. 
"She is one of the best players in thfl country and in my opin­ion, the .?est point gu~rd}n t.he country, McGraw said. We re just thrilled to have her take over thfl team." 
MeGraw expects Lechlitner to come in and contributn immedi­ately. Tho coach envisions a backeourt tandem of Lechlitner and current Irish sophomore Tulyah Gaines. 
Barlow, one of the othnr top senior guards in Indiana, will bring a great deal of versatility to the Irish. The Pike star can play both guard spots and small forward. She avnrag1ld 23.7 points per game last season, but also rebounds and defends vnry well. 
"Barlow is a very vnrsatiln guard," McGraw said. "I think she will do a lot of tho little things for us." 
Barlow, like Loehlitnor, was named all-state in 2005. "All Star Girls Heport" ranked her the No.55 player in the nation and the No. 10 shooting guard. 
The six-foot-three Ben­Tsvulun is one of the top for­wards in Indiana. The !larding produet will give the Irish much needed depth down low. 
The six-foot-four Williamson played her first three years of high school basketball at Honeoye Falls-Lima High School in Rochester, N.Y. Williamson was named to the all-state team in 2005 and garnered all-con­ference honors in each of her first three seasons. 
McGraw said that tho class as a whole meshes very well with the program and the University in general. 
"They are just all a great lit for Notre Dame in every way ­academically, basketball-wise, personality-wise," McGraw said. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 


'­


UNIVERSITY 
i:1%li!fifn&iUi¥.fl"~@ lJ 2!H00~~~1m$~n.¥.S*" 
OUTFITTERS™ 
the campus store off campus'f'M 

located in the Martin's Supermarket Plaza 1 block east of Turtle Creek Apartments 
243-4197 

~ 
r 
I I 
page 22 
Option 
continued from page 24 
offense rated No. 2 in the 
nation that averages 282.6 yards per game and 28 touch­downs on the season. 
But while the Irish are wor­ried about stopping the Midshipmen's attack, Navy coach Paul Johnson is also interested in how the first­year Notre Dame coaching staff will try to stop his squad. 
"I don't expect they will play exactly the way the last staff did," Johnson said. "We don't play the way the last staff did. Nobody really does. They will have their own take on [the option]." 
Notes: 
+ Notre Dame and adidas announced a new agreement Wednesday that ensures the athletic apparel maker will outfit all Irish varsity sports through the year 2014. 
The deal is worth "in excess" of $60 million over the next ten years, according to a release by the Notre Dame athletic department. 
"Quite simply, we couldn't be more excited about our partnership with adidas ­both what has gone before and what's ahead," Notre Dame athletic department director Kevin White said in the release. 
Adidas began its relation­ship with the University in 1997 by supplying "footwear for all Notre Dame teams and apparel for many Irish teams." Since 2001, almost all Irish athletic uniforms have been made by adidas. 
+ Irish senior linebacker and defensive captain Brandon Hoyte was announced Wednesday as a semifinalist for the Lott Trophy, which honors the "Defensive IMPACT Player of the Year" and is given out annually by The Pacific Club IMPACT Foundation. The foundation, based in Newport Beach, Calif. uses the trophy to honor a player for both his performance both on and off the field. 
Hoyte maintains a 3.35 grade point average while leading the Irish defense with 61 tackles on the season. 
+ Former Notre Dame ath­letic director Mike Wadsworth, who died in 2004, will be honored at a ceremony Saturday dedicating a plaque on the plaza north of Notre Dame Stadium. Wadsworth, who played football for the Irish from 1963-65, will be honored for his accomplish­ments during his tenure as athletic director from 1995­2000. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

---------~~~~~~~~-----------------------------------------. 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Coaches 
continued from page 24 
and Mike Dunham and current NHL star Paul Kariya. 
Montgomery, now an Irish volunteer assistant coach, cap­tained Maine to a 42-1-2 record in 1992-93 and now holds fourth place in the NCAA in career points (301) and assists (198). Jackson was the head coach of the defending national champion Lakers, while Pooley served as associ­ate head coach. 
What followed in that title game was possibly one of the greatest comebacks ever engi­neered. 
The Lakers exploded in the second period by scoring three goals and moved into a 4-2 lead at the second intermis­sion. It was the only two-goal deficit Maine had faced all year, and Montgomery knew his Black Bears could not end their dream season in this way. 
"I turned to my two line­mates, Cal Ingraham and Paul Kariya, and said, 'We have to win this game."' 
Montgomery stormed into the third and blew away the Lakers with three goals in the matter of five minutes, all on assists by Kariya. Maine inserted Snow into net for Dunham, and Snow stood on his head as Maine captured the crown with a 5-4 victory. 
"After that goal, I kinda reacted like a soccer player in Europe. I didn't know what to do," Montgomery said of scor­ing the winning goal from a perfectly-timed Kariya pass. "It was very odd, I usually just celebrate by jumping into a teammate's arms right away. But it was just euphoric." 
The cause of that euphoria cemented Montgomery and his entire Black Bear team into college hockey lore, but Jackson, Pooley and the Lakers refused to go away silently and rebounded in 1994 to take their second national championship in three years. 
The Montreal native was a Hobey Baker award finalist that year,. but the trophy went to Kariya, and Montgomery went on to a 12-year pro career. 
"I tease him every once in a while and show him some rookie cards I have of me scor­ing against Lake State," Montgomery said when asked if he ever gives Jackson or Pooley a hard time about the game. 

The right decision 

After retiring from pro hock­ey last season, Montgomery immediately embarked upon the coaching path, something he had been interested in since his days with legendary Maine coach Shawn Walsh. 
He had always intended to return to Maine and work with Walsh upon retiring, but Walsh passed away several years ago, and Montgomery was forced to look elsewhere. He recalled conversations with Walsh from his college days when the coach would remark that Lake Superior's Jackson was the best in the business and had much to offer. 
Montgomery contacted Jackson a short time after Jackson accepted the Irish head coaching position, and the two worked out an agree­ment for Montgomery to become Notre Dame's volun­teer assistant coach. 
Montgomery turned down full-time assistant coaching jobs at other schools, including Quinnipiac, to learn from Jackson. 
"There's no question I made the right decision," Montgomery said of coming to Notre Dame. "Because not only from [Jackson], but the complements of Paul Pooley and Andy Slaggert, I'm learn­ing from three great hockey minds everyday." 
The new volunteer assistant helps out in any way he can ­from the offensive drills, to goalie drills, to the power play and penalty kill. 
''I'm a puck-pusher, that's what I call it," he jokes. 
Jackson values the knowl­edge of the game he brings to the arena everyday. He also notes that Montgomery has a great eye for talent -Jackson said that he was the first to point out freshman Erik Condra as "being a real sharp player." 
"Being younger, I thought [the players] could use him as somebody to vent to and to communicate with on a differ­ent level," Jackson said of Montgomery. "And have some­one they could relate to a little bit closer to their age and to their playing experience." 

For alimited time, buy one air/hotel package and the second person flies free from South Bend! 
Packages available with 30 ofLas Vegas' mostexciting hotels. 
Book now at 
www.allegiantair.com 
Thursday, November 10, 2005 
Back together again 
Paul Pooley comes to Notre Dame as associate head coach after spending the past 11 years as head coach of Providence College, a perenni­al contender in the Hockey East. Pooley led the Friars to one Hockey East title and two NCAA tournament appear­ances during his tenure. 
Montgomery is not the only former college star on the Irish hockey staff. Pooley was an All-American at Ohio State, selected CCHA player of the year his senior year and Bauer national player of the year. He holds Ohio State records in goals (114), assists (156) and points (270). 
Pooley and Jackson had talked prior to this season about getting back together to relive the magic they had cap­tured at Lake Superior in the early '90s, but the talk was never directed about Notre Dame. 
When Jackson won the Irish job, he contacted Pooley, and the two went through the process of making Pooley the newest addition to the Notre Dame community. 
Jackson attributes much of their success with the Lakers to Pooley and the professional­ism he brings to the game. 
"I thought he'd be a perfect match for Notre Dame, just because he's a class act. He has great integrity," Jackson said. "I think that he repre­sents the University and he represents this hockey pro­gram in an outstanding way, whether it's in a recruit's home or whether he's dealing with an alumnus, dealing with our players, or dealing with a professor on campus." 
Pooley was motivated to move to Notre Dame by numerous reasons, foremost of which was a chance to work with Jackson again. 
"You never get an opportuni­ty to work with your mentor again very often in your life," he said. 
"To be successful" 
Notre Dame -its resources and its location -played a big role in Pooley's decision as well. The family environment privy to all convinced Pooley that Notre Dame was the place to be. 
"The biggest thing is to move the program forward," Pooley said of his goals for Irish hock­ey. "We're here for a specific reason, I tell people, to be suc­cessful. I think that this school and the academics speak for itself." 
Both assistant coaches stress that one of the greatest advan­tages to being with this Irish program is to be able to learn from a master of his craft in Jackson. 
Montgomery has recorded various things he has learned from Jackson and the rest of the staff so far this season, and his computer is already cluttered with the valuable information. 
''I'm here to support him and help him and give him my expertise in any area I can," Pooley said of assisting Jackson. "But I take my guid­ance from him, and if I can help him, that's the biggest thing." 
This staff and the team it guides will face their next challenge starting tonight against the Bowling Green Falcons at 7:35 in the Joyce Center. The two teams will play the first two games of a four-game season series start­ing with tonight and a second game on Friday night. 
The Irish finished 0-3-1 against the Falcons, their CCHA cluster mates, last year. As partners in a cluster, the two teams will play four games with each other during the course of the season, two at each team's arena. 
Bowling Green currently holds a 2-4-1 record, coming off a two-game sweep of Nebraska-Omaha last week­end. 
Jackson and crew are at the beginning of a new era in Irish hockey -an era that they intend to fill with a CCHA Championship and serious runs for the national crown ­but for now, they take each weekend's fortunes or misfor­tunes and try to improve. 
"I think we work well," Pooley said. "I think we feed off each other." 

the University and the region provides and the resources Contact Kyle Cassity at and prestige the institution is kcassily@nd.edu 

NEVER STOP EXPLORING™ 
A thick fleece coat is perfect for winter. Ask any yak. 
300 Weight Polartec® fleece provides exceptional warmth. Wear it on its own or zip it into a shell for wet-weather protection. 
~ 

I:IUTPI:IIIT Hours: Mon. -Fri.: 1o:oo am • 9:oo pm
~ 

Sat: 1o:oo am • B:oo pmCold Weather Experts Sun.: 12:oo pm -6:oopm 



Thursday, November 10, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
.. 

JOCKULAR 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 

CROISSANTWORLD 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 38 Prefix with DOWN cherry 1 They may hang
puncture 

by the neck with Spanish 2 Shelved 5 Zoot suit feature 39 1974 top 10 hit 
10 "Pardon" lyrics 
3"_getit!" 42 Necessity tor 14 Spray target, 
perhaps 4 One of the 
some, in order

15 Spanish for Munsters 
to go to the

"poplar" 5 Tommy Rettig's 
movies 16 avis 
co-star in 45 See 17-Across 
1950's TV 

17 With 25-, 45­and 58-Across, 49 Enraptured 6 H.S. subject some advice by 50 Elia Kazan's 7 Kung_ 36-Across autobiography chicken 
20 Nets with floats a Ambulance
53 Fraternity 21 Emir's land character staffer, for short 22 Sixth-century 54 Supplement 9 Take a peek year 1 0 Decorative 
58 See 17-Across 24 Singer Coolidge pottery and such 
61 "Far out, man!" 

25 See 17-Across 11 "Aren't we the 62 Sole saver 
comedian? I" 

32 Pizarro's conquest 63 Nod's 12 "... saw significance Elba"
33 Something bad to be caught in 54 Steaming 13 K follower 34 August 65 "Ain't 18 Blasts out 35 A cat, but rarely Sweei?" 19 On the a rat perimeter
66 Card game with 36 See 17-Across forfeits 23 Ferry destination, ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE possibly 24 One who's sorry 25 Appurtenance for Santa 
Motorcycle Diaries" begins 
27 Four pairs 28 Balsam 29 Playing marble 
30 Half of a 1980's TV team 31 Drag through the mud 
36 Small knot 37 Where ships go 

THE OBSERVER 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
i(,u..k.'") .. . ~\?>E. C..\::.~ I? g c.ce ce c..:...:..\::: k.. y~'i ·· · 

• (h~ phM<... h S_!! ct~...c:t 
rY\\-~-h!..r .. J'\-\\)-4-r CC..\:> '1"'i . . . ""''-I HH~/\q 

'o<Ar -F-c:..t\ lA "'ov. r (It\,., ~~ $<>"­\fi 1-,e~ O..r'!. ~ • · " 
t."'""'""J'""5 ~ r 

WILLSHORTZ 

Puzzle by Sam BelloUo Jr. 
40 Mine passages 48 Hardly go-55 Twofold getters
41 Verizon, for one 56 Wynken, 50 On the road Blynken and 
43 "Quite possibly" Nod, e.g.
51 E. S. _,old
44 Lead character 
game company 
57 Capital NW of in a Mario Puzo 
famous for 
Dram men novel 
Yahtzee and 46 Loosened (up) Bingo 59 Medical suffix 
47"_ hollers, let 52 Chemical 60 "That feels " suffixes good!" 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles. nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two eampuscs. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 



.. 
TABOL 
j

rJ r I I 
102005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
BABIR 
j
I I r []tGROAND 
HOW THE: FAMil-Y'S 
DAY AT THE BEAC.H 
TURNED OUT.
IJ I 
www.jumble.com 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer: 

rI I I J.. [I I I I J.. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: MIDGE SHINY UNWISE COLUMN Yesterday's Answer·. 
How the family's day at the beach turned out-"SWIMMINGLY" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS DAY: Nick Lachey, 32: Chris Jericho. 35: Lou Ferrigno, 53; Susan Tedeschi, 35 Happy Birthday: Make I he most of the wonderful ideas you hnve. Your impulsiveness could cause you to jump from one thing lo another. so focus and stick to what will bring the best returns. Anger will only set you hack. Do what you can by yourself. and don't worry about what anyone else is doing. Your numbers arc 3, 17, 23, 34, 36. 42 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Evcrylhing is falling into place. Travel or picking up information that will enable you to better undersland the people you arc working with will help you conduct yourself in a powerful way. You can receive the 'support you require. 4 stars TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You can expect to face trouble at home if you have been spending too much time with your friends, on the road or working. Delays in shipments or setbacks from pnnr conununication nrc likely. Make any claims you have immediately. 2 stars GEMINI (May 21-.Junr 20): You will have a chance to prove yourself and drum up business that has been off-limits to you in the past. Don't get tno comfnrtahlc. however. Someone may try to hroad.~idc you. Be prepared and stay in cnnlrol. 5 stars CANCER (June 21-.July 22): You may not like change, hut if you arc receptive to what's going on around you. it will turn out to be in your hest interest. Don't lend or borrow money. Loss is likely if you aren't frugal. 3 stars LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): You will certainly he noticed today, so he on your hest hehavior. Getting laughs and attention is your thing. bul don't do so at the expense of someone else. A gracious and humble manner will he far more impressive. 3 stars VIRGO (Au~. 23-Sept. 22): Your practical nature will elude you today, causing confusion for everyone around you. You may find yourself mesmerized hy someone who may not be all that trustworthy. Protect your interests. 3 stars LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Whatever you want can he yours if you put in an honest effort. Everyone will see your worth and hend over backward to help you. Don't question your good fortune --do your hest to get the most out of it. 5 stars SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Not everyone will get what you arc trying to do. but don't let that bother you. Set your goals high and strive to work with what you have. Someone will try to slow you down or give you the wrong infonnation. 2 stars SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-I>cc. 21 ): Don't daydream about what you want to do --start making arrangements. Make changes to your home or your living arrangements and you will eliminate part of your prohlem. Stick to what you start. 4 stars CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.lan. 19): Your mind may he on love and rom:mce today. If you are thinking ahout opening up a relationship that has heen shut down for some time, think again. Don't give in to false pretense. 3 stars AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Fcb. Ill): You can expect an emotional push-and-pull with your lover or the people to whom you arc closest. Don'! make an impulsive decision based on inadequate information. Overreacting or being overindulgent will lead to trouble. 3 stars PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Set the standard and he sure to stick to it. If someone doesn't want to abide hy the rules, let him or her do what they may, hut don't follow suit. Be true to yourself. 3 stars Birthday Baby: You are open-minded. aggressive and a take-charge type of person. You have strong beliefs and can he stubborn when faced with controversy. Uncertainty clouds your vision, hut added discipline will help you find your way. 
Euxenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfor fim, eu~eniu/ast.com for cm~fidnltial cfm.•wltatimr.,· 
The Observer P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 0 Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ 
..

City _______________ State ____ Zip______ 

THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, November 10, 2005 
page 24 
MEN'S BASKETBALL RECRUITING 
Brey signs prospects Jackson, Harangody for class of 2010 
beginning next fall. his signing day press confer­Neither player's signing tor that drove the Indianat• By PAT LEONARD The two high school seniors ence in the Joyce Center. comes as a surprise. native to commit. 
Sporrs Writer 
had already made verbal com­"When I look at them on the Harangody (6-foot-8, 250 "With what we're losing 
mitments to Notre Dame, but back end of the four freshmen pounds) ended speculation body-type-wise in [senior for­
Notre Dame coach Mike their Tuesday morning sign­... and with !sophomores July 20 when he chose the ward Rick] Cornett and [senior 
Brey announced Tuesday ings made the news official. Omaril Israel and [Rob] Kurz, Irish, and Jackson (5-foot-10, center Torin I Francis, he I morning that Luke Ilarangody "You feel like you won two those are eight guys that I 175 pounds) made his unoffi­becomes very important as a I (Schererville, Ind.) and Tory games in one day, and you think form a great nucleus." cial decision on Sept. 20. freshman, and I think he cer­I Jackson (Saginaw, Mich.) both never really get to do that The Observer could not Brey anticipates Harangody tainly saw that through the I have signed national letters of when you're playing during reach Jackson or Harangody having an "immediate impact" 
intent to play for the Irish the season," Brey said to open for comment Tuesday night. and believes that was one fac-see RECRUITS/page 21 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
One more warm up 
Irish face Ferris State in final exhibition before regular season-opening showdown with No. 19 Wolverines 
Irish guard Tulyah Gaines drives to the basket during Notre Dame's exhibition win over Indianapolis Nov. 1. The Irish will play Ferris State in their second exhibition game Thursday. 
Notre Dame defenseman Brock Sheahan takes a shot against Michigan Nov. 4. The Irish are 1-5-0 under new coach Jeff Jackson. 
FooTBALL 
Option attack forces changes in practice 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
As one of the only teams in '~ollege football that runs the option offense, Navy is caus­
ng Irish coach Charlie Weis :.o shake up his practice rou­tine. 
"It's been interesting because we've had to spend a lot of time coaching the !;how team here in the last J'ew days, which is a little bit unusual," Weis said. 
Navy quarterback Lamar Owens has the option of handing off to his fullback, pitching to the running back 
SMC BASKETBAll 
LLI 

u First-year coach Steve z Bender looks to revive a struggling program. 
.. 
~ 
= 
ca:: 

~ ti 
page 20 
~en 
or keeping the ball and turn­ing the corner -an attack Weis has been trying to re­create in practice with his team this week. 
"I know you put up cards and everyone tries to simu­late the offense and defense of the opponents you're going against, but we've spent some extra time and actually moved some bodies around to create a better picture so that our guys have a more realistic view of what we're going against," he said. 
Weis and the Irish are 

going 
against a rushing 
see OPTION/page22 
MlB 
Bud Selig supports Congress' proposed steroid legislation requiring a lifetime ban for the third offense. 
page 19 
HOCKEY 

Jackson's staff shares past 
By KYLE CASSILY Sporrs Writer 
Jeff Jackson, Paul Pooley and Jim Montgomery work from the same clipboard nowadays, but the trio have not always seen eye to eye. 
The 1993 National Championship game found the three pitted against one anoth­er, as Jackson and Pooley's Lake Superior State Lakers played against one of the great­est college hockey teams ever assembled in Jim Montgomery's Maine Black Bears. 
The Black Bears were popu­lated with Olympic and later NHL goaltenders Garth Snow 
see COACHES/page 22 
NCAA Football 
Fresno State at Boise State 
The Bulldogs and Broncos play Thursday in a WAC showdown. 
page 19 

MLB 
Lawyers for Rafael Palmeiro released a statement with reasons for his failed steroid test. 
page 18 

Intercollegiate Athletic Conference (GLIAC), good for a fourth-place finish in the North Division. 
"lOur goals arel similar to last week -defense, rebound­ing," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "We want to play some pressure defense. We want to really work and see how we're coming together as a team." 
The Bulldogs lose three starters from last year's team, including forward/center Bridget Horwitz, who was first team all-conference (15.4 points, 7.2 rebounds per game). Leading the returnees is redshirt junior guard Erin Miller out of nearby Niles, Mich., who averaged 17 points and 5.2 rebounds per game in as a sophomore in 2003-04 before sitting out most of last 
see BULLDOGS/page 21 
KERRY 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sporrs Writer 

In their last tune-up before the regular season opens on Nov. 18 against Michigan, the Irish look to improve on their first exhibition win, in which they gave up 59 points. 
Tonight, No. 15 Notre Dame concludes its two-game exhi-See Also 
bition stint "McGraw scours against
Division-II Indiana for talent" Ferris State, locat­
page21

ed in Big Hapids, Mich. The teams will tipoff at 7 
p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
The Bulldogs finished 11-17 last season, with a 9-9 record in the Great Lakes 
MlB 

White Sox manager Ozzie Guillen wins American League Manager of the Year. 
page 18 
I KANG!The Observer 
NBA 
Clippers 102 Wizards 97 
Los Angeles hands Washington its first loss of the season. 
page 14 





