------------------------------------------------~----~-------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 18 THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 15,2005 
Voice professor dies in accident 
driving northbound attempting our students and he created a was deeply upset about his 
By KATE ANTONACCI to pass a vnhicle in a no-pass­special bond with them as a fel­death. 
Associatt' Nt'ws Editor ing ZOllO. low artist." "lin was the man that 
Hiley-Schof'ield, who had Riley-Schofield also served as inspired me to be a voice 
A beloved Notro Damn assis­bonn a visiting assistant profes­Director of Opera at Notre major," said Tonozzi, who was tant profnssor of voicn was sor since the fall of 2002, Dame. a pre-med major freshman kiiiPd Monday in an auto aed­taught elasses in voeal peda­"As artistic director of the year. "I le has always been so dnnt on Michigan-f12 nnar gogy, opera scene and vocal Notre Damn opera, John had a supportive and caring and l·:dwardsburg, Mich., ofTir.ials performance techniques, magieal talnnt for coaching out­knew how to best serve us." said. 
among others, as wnll as pri­standing performances from Because there are only 30 
.Jolin l!ilny­vato voice lossons. our students, and he croatod a voice majors, Tonozzi said, stu­SdwliPid, !i I, According to Dean Mark spedal bond with thorn as a fel­dents form very dose rolation­diPd at Hoehn of tho College of Arts and low artist," Hoche said in an ships with their professors. appntximatP­Lntters. Hiley-Schofield was an email sent to Arts and Letters "I am preparing for my senior Iy h p.m., adornd profnssor. faculty. "Those of you who have recital and now the floor has a('eording to "Many studnnts as wnll as a attnndnd thn Notre Damn opnra been pulled out from under a Sept. 14 number of parents told mn in in recnnt years will have seen me," Tonozzi said. "At a South Bond rncnnt yoars what an e!Toctive John's inf'luence in the out­University where football is Trihunn arti­and charismatic tnachor John standing quality of our student king, to go in with a music de. Tlu~ art.i-Riley-Schofield was," Hoehn said in a productions." major semns kind of ridiculous. clP I'PportPd University statement. "lie had a Senior voice major Nick But hn made you fePI comfort-his Mitsubishi !.anetH' struck a rnagieal talnnt for coaching out­Tonozzi, who took numerous truck almost lwad-on as lw was standing pnrformancns from elasses with Hiley-Schofield, see ACCIDENT/page 6 

Con1edian Vaughn to visit ND 
By KATIE PERRY Assisrant News Editor 
Arrlainwd actor and ronwdian 
Vinrn Vaughn will host tho 
national ":W Days & :~0 Nights~ 
Hollywood to tho lloart.land" 
tour snt to stop on campus 
Saturday, Ort. S, tlw University 
of Not.n• Damn Student Union 
Board said in a statenwnt 
WNIIH •sdav. 
Tlw last timo Vaughn was in 
South BPIHI. his "Hudy" t:harac­. tPr JamiP ()'(lara was lwratnd by Ara l'arsnghian af'lnr eritidzing tlw fanwd Irish walk-on Daninl Huettigor for treating cwnry game as if it wt~rn the Super 
Bowl. 
But tlw popular funnyman will 
likt>ly rt~c:nivn a much warmor 
rtH:nption whnn his "Wild West 
Conwdy Show:· rolls into town 
noxtmonth. 
SUB Managor Jimmy Flahnrty 
said organiwrs expect tickots 
will ht~ in high-dmnand. 
"Vincn Vaughn and the eomn­
dians that conw with him aro big 
namos in tlw conwdy world," 
Flalwrty said. "We am anticipat­
ing vt~ry high attendance. The 
narly rnviows on his shows from 
tlw Wost Coast havn bonn unbn­
lievahlo, so Wt~ oxpnct that 
nHmwnt.um to carry to campus."· 
Sophomoro Kim Schoomaker 
said sho is a fan of Vaughn 
bnmuso lw rarely plays tlw lcmd­
ing role, but ho makes movies "a 
billion timos lwtter" with his 
"goofy, yot witty" SPnso of humor. 
"No one would expect sonw­
OJW that huge to como to 
school," sho said. "In fad some­
oiw was saying thoy hoard 
rumors that somnone 'bigger 
see VAUGHN/page 4 

South Bend hotels fill up quickly 
By JANICE FLYNN News Wrirer 
Christopher Tomei has worked at Indiana hotels for the past six years, most recently as the gen­nral manager of Hampton Inn in LaPorte, a :~!i-mile, 40-minute drive from South Bend. 
lie was shocked when h n r e 1: n i v ~~ d a c a II t h is wonk asking to reserve nino rooms for the Michigan State football woekond. 
"I had to ask him ,'iori­ously if he was joking," Tonwi said. 
Tomei knows that foot­ball season is peak hotel season in north Indiana. South Bend hotels can fill 
The Inn at Saint Mary's, adjacent to campus, is just one of many see HOTELS/page 9 South Bend hotels inundated with requests this time of year. 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
STUDENT SENATE 
Ad sparks debate at n1eeting 
By MADDIE HANNA A~sociatc News Editor 
Notre Damn's controvt>rsial JWW institutional spot, "Candln," lit up diseussion at Wmlnnsday's Student Senat.n nwnting. 
Senators ultimately dndded to send Divnrsity Afl'airs eon11nittnn ehair Sarah Liu's lnttl'l' rnqunst­ing that thn Univnrsity ehangn the advertisement baek to thn eommittne li1r revision. 
Liu basnd lwr eritidsms of tlw advnrtisement -whieh limturns a whitn, female student lighting a eandln and praying, tlwn opl'lling hnr mailbox to thn fat nnvelopn from Notre Dame and lifting her nyns to the etlwrnal phrase "A Higher Education" ~on five points. 
"It's not an aet:uratn rnprnsnn­tation of' the Catholic faith," l.iu said. "If you're~ a Catholic, you wouldn't pray to get into a school. You pray for something morn important than that." 
Shn dismissnd thn phrasn "A Higher Edueation" as "preten­tious" and said thn advnrtismm•nt did not include important infor­mation about student or academ­ic lifi1. 
"It dons not rnprnscmt Notrn Damn," Liu said. "Whnrn arn tlw minoritins'! Thny are nowlu~rn to bn found in this eommnrdal ... You show this eommcwdal and hmwstly, what kind of studnnts do you think you'll attrart'!" 
Although Liu said she would likn tlw Uniyprsity to pull tlw eommereial, she bnlinvnd that was an um·nalistie goal and said showing a supplPnHmtal vidPo 
see SENATE/page 4 


Students, etnployers flock to fall Career Fair 
Bradley Leon, a represen­
By KATIE LINHARES 
tative of Teach for America,
News Writer 
answered many questions about how to apply and
Students l'loeknd to the what opportunities might.Joyce Center Wednesday 
be available af'ter the two­night in hopes of f'inding year commitment to Teach
their future calling, an 
for Am11rica was eompleted.
internship for the summer, 
Many of the eompanies
a job for next year or gen­
present contacted Notre
eral advien. 
Dame asking to hfl part of
With 130 companies~ 20 
the University's Career Fair,
f1rst timnrs -appnaring at 
said Hobyn Karkinwicz,
thn annual fall Career Fair, managnr for the offiee serv­thorn was plenty of oppor­iens in the Career Contnr.
tunity for students to make "Tlwro has bonn a greatprofessional contacts. 
rnsponsn from the compa­
l'roShop Building 
nies who have attended ourProd uets, Steak 'n' Shake, 
past career fairs,"
Tribunn Co. and Harris Karkiewicz said. "They
Nisbit all had booths and 
have wonderful things to
representatives at the fair. 
say about the students and
Post-graduate volunteer 
thB facilities we offer." 
programs like ACE and Tflach for America were A prospective employer greets a Notre Dame student also presflnt. see FAIR/page 10 Wednesday afternoon at the Career Fair in the Joyce Center. 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, September 15, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Country Convert 
Country music is an acquired taste. For novices it takes gradual but regular exposure to learn to 
appreciate it  as  a  viable music  
genre.  
My conversion  
to a music  country fan was  Megan O'Neil  
like wading into the ocean on the first beach day of  Saint Mary's Editor  
summer  - slow  
and hesitant.  

As a high schooler in southern California I was busy rocking out with classmates to alternative punk bands and dancing to the pre-Fergie Black Eyed Peas. In fact, it wasn't until I started at Saint Mary's that I was introduced to names like Garth Brooks and Tobey Keith by my Iowanian roommate. 
During those first experiences with country I found it to be corny and unoriginal. All the songs seemed to have the same tempo and the same instrumentals. And the lyrics -does a track have to contain the words "truck," "blue jeans" and "whiskey" a specific number of times to qualify for the Country Music Awards (CMAs)? 
Sheryl Crow and Kid Rock's "Picture" -which at best is a pseu­do-country song -was about as far as I got on my figurative road to Memphis freshman year. 
Still, country music quietly crept into my regular music repertoire. Despite my aversion to everything related to the genre -Nascar, President Bush, red neckedness -I had to admit some of it was pretty catchy. 
I've seen even the preppiest of the preppy Chicago suburbanite Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students ­complete with sear sucker shorts, pastel pinked popped collar polos and top sider slip-ons -singing "Save a horse, ride a cowboy" at Linebacker. 
The country music get-up is a draw too. Most of America confines its cowboy hat days to just one a year -Oct. 31 to be exact. But there is a certain mysterious appeal to those Stetson shaded faces. I'm not going to lie, I was a little jealous of Renee Zellweger when weddings photos of her husband Kenny Chesney appeared, white cowboy hat included. 
Further, there simply seem to be occasions when only country music will do. I remember traveling board­er to boarder across Illinois once with friends and being given the all important responsibility of manning the stereo. Combing through several cd cases I finally settled, much to my own surprise, on Tim McGraw. But really, you couldn't drive through all those fields listening to say, U2, could you? It just wouldn't be appro­priate. 
It wasn't until a few months ago, however, that I could truly call my self a fan. The christening moment came when I set one of my car radio preset buttons on Kat Country 99.9. Now you can see and hear me singing "I ain't as good as I once was ... " as I drive around South Bend. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@sain tmarys. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S YOUR IDEAL CAREER? 


Chip Brady  Laura German  Lindsay Demers  
freshman  senior  senior  
Siegfried  off-campus  off-campus  
"Trophy  "Working with her at a  
husband."  winery.  






Houston Hum Josh Bruce Adriana Jove! 
junior junior sophomore O'Neill O'Neill McGlinn 
"Playing golffor "Professional "fee cream 
, 

a living." student, South taster. Bend, Indiana." 

Senior Katie Hunt plays a prelude by Buxtehude on the O'Malley Organ in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Art's Reyes Organ and Choral Hall Tuesday during her master class. It was part of the 2005 National Conference on Organ Pedagogy being hosted by Notre Dame that ended Wednesday. 
OFFBEAT 
Bill would make failing to clear snow from car illegal 
BOSTON -Winter drivers too lazy or rushed to clear snow and ice from their cars would face fines and even jail under a bill being con­sidered by the state Legislature. 
The bill, considered Tuesday by the Joint Com­mittee on Transportation, seeks to reduce the danger to other drivers from chunks of snow and ice that fly off car roofs or hoods. Motorists who don't clear their vehi­cles face a $500 fine or a prison term of up to six months. 
If it passes, Massachusetts 
THURSDAY 
a:: 
could become the first state to require snow and ice-free cars. 
The bill's sponsor, Rep. Brian Knuuttila, D-Gardner, told The Boston Globe that it's urgent to pass the bill into law before winter. 
Truckload of quarters spills onto road 
HAMMONDVILLE, Ala. ­A truck carrying tons of quarters caught fire Tuesday and spilled most of them on a highway, where workers used heavy equipment, shovels and buckets to scoop up the singed coins. 
The driver said the truck carried 39,000 pounds of new Kansas quarters, part of the U.S. Mint's state coin series, that were worth some $800,000, said Police Chief Michael Putnam. 
The rear of the armored truck bound for Birmingham from the Philadelphia mint caught fire in the pre-dawn hours on Interstate 59 in northeast Alabama, Putnam said. 
"It's kind of a surprise when you pull up on a fire call at 2:30 in the morning on the interstate and there are armed guards around the fire," he said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 
il.l 
:::1: 
!;;: 
il.l 
3: 

~
..... 
<C 
(.) 0 
HIGH 75 HIGH 75 HIGH 79 HIGH 80
...I LOW 50 LOW 50 LOW 53 LOW 54 IN BRIEF 
The Saint Mary's student Governance Association is hosting the State of the School Address tonight at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. 
Fiddler's Hearth is hosting a "halfway to St. Patrick's Day" Irish Fest Friday through Sept. 23 to raise money for the Red Cross Hurricane Relief Fund. Irish bands The Springs, The Bardic Apostles, The Fenians, Teada, Brock McGuire and local band Kennedy's Kitchen will perform. Fiddler's Hearth is located in downtown South Bend at 127 N. Main. For tick­ets and information, call 232­2853. 
The fifth annual Saturday Scholar Series will begin at 11 
a.m. this Saturday in the Hesburgh Center. History pro­fessor Linda Przybyszewski will give a lecture entitled "Catholics, Concubines and the Constitution." 
The Dillon Pep Rally will be held tonight at 7:30 p.m. on South Quad in front of Dillon Hall. 
The football pep rally will be held Friday at 6 p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. Doors will open at 5:15pm. 
Flipside will be showing the movie "Rudy" at 9 p.m. on Friday on North Quad. 
"The Longest Yard" will be shown in 101 DeBartolo Hall on Saturday at 4:30 p.m. and 7:30p.m. Admission is $3. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

SUNDAY MONDAY 
~ 


HIGH 78 HIGH 
79 

LOW 60 LOW 
63 

Atlanta 89 I 71 Boston 840 I 69 Chicago 78 I 56 Denver 69 I 49 Houston 92 I 72 Los Angeles 75 I 58 Minneapolis 70 I 55 New York 88 I 74 Philadelphia 88 I 74 Phoenix 97 I 73 Seattle 69 I 55 St. Louis 80 I 63 Tampa 92 I 75 Washington 87 I 72 
Thursday, September 15, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

SMC vvields green thuillb 
Campus garden produces pumpkins, tomatoes, sunflowers 
By KATHLEEN QUINLAN News Writer 
If one were to wander behind the Saint Mary's Angela Athletic Facility and its parking lot, a small sample of the College "uniqueness" ean be seen -a large gar­den, lilled with pumpkins, tomatoes, sun­flowers, even tall stalks of corn, waving in the brnnze. 
Tht~ garden belongs to the Sisters of the lloly Cross, and individual plots are given to mnployp,os and retirees of the Holy Cross Sorvices Corporation, the organization that manages 
gardeners to, "get enjoy­

"Working in [the 
the properties of the Sister, ment that comes with work­on a lirst-come, lirst-serve garden] is like a ing with the earth," says basis. Judith Johns. CEO of Johns.
retreat." 
the Holy Cross Services, "People enjoy it," says dns1:ribns the providnd plolc; Stimson, "It gives them Carrie Call 
as "a courtesy." something to do. Some peo­
"It gives them !employees director ple come out every year." and rotiroes I a place to get Office for Civil and Call said she likes the calm back to the narth," Johns gardening brings. 
Social Engagement
said. 
Johns also said many of thn gardeners have no place in their own yard. so this gives thorn the opportunity to grow whatever they desirP. 
The plots have become a tradition, begin­ning morn than 20 years ago. Eaeh season bogins in the spring, when Tom Stimson, grounds manager for the Holy Cross Snrviens, and his grounds men clean the gardnn, pull woods and mow. ThPy also till tlw ground so that the rnturning gardeners have a dean slate. 
Stimson emphasized the faet that in the proenss of dnaning, thny do not use chPmi­cals or pestiddns. 
"Many of the gardenPrs like to grow organically," he explainPd, "so we leave it dmm, with only the compost from the old plants in the earth." 
It is then up to the approximately 33 returning gardeners to decide what to plant in their 30 by 50 foot plots. Stimson, for example, has a lot of hot peppers and tomatoes in his plot. Carrie Call, director of the Office for Civil and Social Engagement, likes to plant flowers. 
"My yard at horne is shady," she said. "So this gives me the opportunity to plant sun­loving flowers, like zinnias, sunflowers, and cosmos." 
Not only does an individual garden plot provide a beautiful flower arrangement 
and a daily serving of veg­
etables, but it also allows the 
"Working in it [the garden! 

is like a retreat. You're out there all alone, it's quiet, meditative. It's awesome." 
Like any other garden, however, the Saint Mary's garden does not come pest free. Stimson says the garden is frequently visited by deer, ground hogs and coyote. Although nothing sp(lcific is done to keep the animals away, Stimson says the gar­deners plant extra vegetables, and some­times grow things that the animals won't eat like hot peppers. 
At one point, a scarecrow was erected. It did not quite work on the deer, since "they're used to seeing people," conceded Stimson. 
Contact Kathleen Quinlan at kquinlO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
DPAC starts student group 
Participation comes with free cinema passes, discount 
By NICOLE HARRISON 
News Writer 
Students with a passion for the arts are forming a new undergraduate student group at the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. 
Students Promoting the Performing Arts will spread the word about DPAC events by posting flyers, relat­ing DPAC news at weekly hall council meetings and distributing informa­tion about events to members of their dorm, the group's Web site said. The state of campus arts culture will be discussed, as well as concerns and ideas from the student body. 
DPAC Marketing Assistant Dana Kernich said she is specifically inter­ested in how to promote student awareness of and interest in the arts. 
"The idea to form a group dedicat­ed to promoting the arts among stu­dents was developed both to generate awareness about our events and to give students another opportunity to engage the world throu.gh the arts," Kernich said. 
A representative from each dorm will be selected to help publicize events· among the student body and attend periodic status meeting, according to the Web site. The group is currently seeking Arts enthusiasts and students interested in developing marketing and promotional experi­ence. 
In exchange for their participation, they will receive two free pairs of Browning Cinema passes every month, an additional $5 discount off the student ticket price for DPAC Presents events, and the ability to play a role in enhancing the student experience at Notre Dame, the Web site said. 
Several students interviewed said the wish they knew more about the DPAC events, such as the Gramrny­winning Bruce Hornsby this Friday night. The DPAC student group is another way for the student body to get informed and excited about the phenomenal cultural events taking place right here on campus. 
"In my opinion, I think it's exactly what DPAC needs," said Megan O'Hara, an usher. "!WAC brings in so many great performers and I don't think the student body takes advan­

. tage of that. If as an employee I don't know what's going on [at the PAC]. then there is no way the majority of the student body does." When asked what events roused the most student attendance, Kernich said, "Students seem to be particu­larly interested in Irish music and in world music as a whole." The DPAC staff is anticipating a great turnout for Tommy Makern on Sept. 30, and also for the Vinnna Boys' Choir concert later this semes­ter. The Chieftains, who performed at Notre Dame for a sold-out crowd last year, will be returning in the spring. "The idea of the student group is rooted in the belief that a Notre Dame education should inspire a life­long love of music, theatre, dance, visual arts and film," said Kernich, "and instill tho habit of patronizing the arts regularly." 
Contact Nicole Harrison at nharrisl@nd.edu 

Bain Capital is one of the leading private investment firms in the world, managing over $26 billion of leveraged buyout, public equity and credit funds. 
As an analyst, you will work with over 40 investment professionals on the Sankaty Advisors team to help drive multimillion-dollar, global investment decisions and build exceptional financial and business analysis skills. 
•-To learn more about this exclusive opportunity, we invite you to attend our informationQ..session on Friday, September 16th, 1:15pm and 2:15pm at Cafe DeGrasta. 

= 
~ 



= = = 
Information Session I Friday, September 16th 1 : 15pm and 2:15pm at Cafe DeGrasta, 1st floor, Grace Hall (Space is limited so please email Laura Connelly to reserve a spot or with questions, lconnelly@baincapital. com) 
Resume Deadline I Sunday, September 18th 
On Campus Interviews I Monday, September 26th 

Thursday, September 15, 2005

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
with a different perspective would help solve the issue of misrepresentation. 
A letter from vice president for Public Affairs and Communication Hilary Crnkovich explained the admin­istration's choices to the Senate. 
"This year we wanted to track a unique course to develop a spot that wasn't conceived in the usual fashion of multi-audi­ence, multi-message, and didn't attempt to diflerentiate our core points of difference. Instead, we concentrated on one of our core points of difference -our Catholic character," the letter read. 
To refute one of the common arguments, Crnkovich wrote, "We do not infer that she only lights candles to get her wishes. We do not infer that getting into ND=praying. Advertising is meant to suggest and give the watcher an emotional connec­tion. One is left to take the story to their personal place." 
Senators immediately jumped into the conversation to support or refute Uu's arguments. 
"I agree with the fact that the commerCial is really cheesy," said Lewis senator Katie McHugh, who felt the spot "exploited stereotypes" of Notre Dame. 
"I don't think it's too much to ask them to put something [else] together," she said, using the University of Pittsburgh's com­mercial focused on Hurricane Katrina aid as an example of a quickly-produced -and less offensive -advertisement. 
Responding to McHugh, stu­dent body president Dave Baron said Notre Dame has produced a commercial relating to Hurricane Katrina aid that will air during Saturday's game. 
Baron highlighted the point he considered excellent in the the categoriza­tion that "the majority of 
"This is a
Notre Dame stu­
commercial. It's 30
dents are white, rich, and seconds. You have Catholic." 
to pick an aim. " 
"I really resent that," Lee said. Others saw 
Brad Tucker the Catholic Senate chaplain aspect featured in the spot dif­
versity] is Catholic in a high degree, whether you like it or not." 
Tucker recom­mended senators direct their efforts toward future University com­mercials rather than struggling to change one now since two football 
ferently. Keough senator Rob Lindley said while he agreed with Liu that there is more to being Catholic than the com­mercial shows, he noted the importance of prayer. 
"I don't know about the rest of you guys, but I prayed my heart out to get into Notre Dame," said Lindley, who suggested revising the commercial by "mingling pictures of communi­ty service, intertwining group discussion and showing com­passion for human beings." 
O'Neill senator Steve Tortorello said the spot was open to interpretation, calling it "a judgment call." 
"I thought the entire commer­cial was done in tongue-and­games are already over. 
"The lighting of the candles could be for any faith," Fisher senatof Chris Garibaldi said. "I find this letter is largely making something out of nothing." 
Debate had been limited to 20 minutes at the beginning of the meeting. Siegfried senator Ben Gunty suggested senators voice their concerns directly to the Diversity Affairs committee. 
"I don't think we should take such a visceral attack," Gunty said. 
The Senate's response to the spot will be discussed at next week's meeting. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

U.S. Constitution Day Liberty and the Constitution Prof. Don Kommers from Notre Dame's Department of Political Science and the Law School will show a video and lead a discussion with students on how the Constitution influences our lives today. 7-9 PM, Thurs., Sept. 15,2005, 102 DBRT Sponsored by Notre Dame's Office of the Provost Conversations with Supreme Court Justices Justices Sandra Day O'Connor and Stephen Breyer answer student's questions at the Supreme Court. 11:00-11 :30 AM or 2:00-2:30 PM, Fri., Sept. 16, 2005 Webcast at http:/ /justicel.bootnetworks.com/constitutionday I Debating Free Speech in the Digital Age NPR's Margot Adler will host a Justice Talking special on censorship in libraries, oftextbooks, and on the internet. 12:30-1:30PM, Fri., Sept. 16, 2005 Webcast at http://justicel.bootnetworks.com/constitutionday/ Webcasts sponsored by the Annenberg Foundation Trust and the Foundation for the National Archives  
Before, During and After the Game 2046 South Bend Ave. 272-1766 Across from Martin's Plaza Open for Lunch Thurs-Fri-Sat Park and Walk to the Game or Watch the Game on Our 14 Screens!  

LIVE AND STUDY 

ROME INFORMATION SESSIONS 
5 PM MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19 OR 
5 PM TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 
131 DEBARTOLO 131 DEBARTOLO 



Vaughn 
continued from page 1 
than Dane Cook' was coming to campus and no one even thought of [Vaughn] because they would­n't consider someone so monu­mental and hot right now to come," she said. 
Vaughn -who most recently starred in this summer's success­ful comedy "Wedding Crashers" -appeared in dozens of feature films in the 12 years since his minor role in "Rudy," including "Swingers," "Dodgeball: A True Underdog Story" and "Old School." 
In addition to Vaughn, the month-long tour boasts comedi­ans Bret Ernst, John Caparulo, Ahmed Ahmed and Sebastian Maniscalco -all hailing from the renowned Comedy Store of Los Angeles. 
The tour -which will be filmed for a 2006 documentary release -is scheduled to play in more than 30 cities from Los Angeles to Chicago. Notre Dame is one of only three colleges to serve as a venue for the show. 
"SUB -always looking for great ente;tainment and pro­
grams for campus -has seized this opportunity and we're going to work hard to make it a suc­cess," Flaherty said. 
The SUB statement said tickets for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students will go on sale for $30 next Wednesday, Sept. 21 at 9:00 a.m. at the LaFortune Box Office. 
While junior Joe Kippley thought the show will attract many students, he said the cost of admission was probably "too high." 
"I think a fair price would be more like 15 or 20 dollars," he said. 
The SUB statement said the price was established by the pro­moter. 
Tickets for the event will remain available exclusively to students for one week. After Sept. 28, any extra tickets will be released for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross faculty and staff members. 
"[The SUB would] encourage students to get their tickets as soon as possible as it is expected that this will sell out," Flaherty said. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 
Diversity Affairs committee's let­ter, "Notre Dame is an institu­tion that uses its unique Catholic faith to stand in solidarity with the marginalized in order to achieve the common good," as missing from the commercial. 
Baron also noted the commer­cial was not just for recruitment purposes -it was also designed to attract the attention of poten­tial donors. 
"It's riled up the Notre Dame Old Guard, in a good way for development," Baron said. 
Pasquerilla West senator Christina Lee agreed with Liu about pulling the advertisement. 
"Honestly, it was more of a humorous reaction for me," Lee said. "[I thought] are you seri­ous?'' 
But Lee urged caution, saying she had a "huge problem with diction" in the letter, referring to cheek fashion," Tortorello said. "It was so over-the-top ... down to the images and music [that I thought it was] clever and witty." 
Tortorello disapproved of the Diversity Affairs committee's let­ter, saying, "It almost seems we've divided everybody into categories [in the letter] ­white, suburban and rich, then everybody else. 
"In reality, the lines are much more blurred." 
Other senators said the com­mercial was not overly contro­versial. 
Senate chaplain Brad Tucker said the issue was "blown out of proportion." 
"This is a commercial;" Tucker said. "It's 30 seconds. You have to pick an aim ... Yeah, it portrays Catholicism in a high degree. Well, this [uni­



ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, September 15, 200'5 CoMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER's WJRE SERVJCES page '5 
~====================================================-­
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Annan defends U.N. at summit 
UNITI~D NATIONS -Af'tnr a year or mounting criticism. Sncrntary-Gennral Kol1 Annan dnfnndod thn United Nations on Wndnosday and urged global loaders to n~storn tlw organization's erodibility by adopting broad rnforms nnndnd for the world to art togntlwr to taekln pov1wty, terrorism and conflid. 
Addrnssing a summit that he callAd a year ago in hopns of winning approval for an ambitious hluoprint to modflrnizn the Unitnd Nations on its 60th annivorsary, Annan told nwn~ than 150 prnsidm1ts, prime ministers and kings that "a good start" had bnen madn. 
But lw said sharp dif'fnrnnees had blocked "tlw sw1~nping and fundamnntal reform that I and many otlwrs bnlinvn is rnquirnd." 
lnstnad of a enlobration of U.N. achieve­nwnts sinco its founding in tho ashes of World War II. tlw summit was much morn a somhnr rnappraisal of its shortcomings and a dPhatn about how to nwnt tho daunting dutl­lnngns or a world becoming morn and more intnrlink1id. 
North Korea demands nuclear reactor 
BI·:I.JING North Korna insisted Wmlrwsday it should gnt a nudnar rnactor to gPnnratn nlnctridty in nxehangn for aban­doning atomic wnapons devnlopment, but the main U.S. nnvoy at disarmamnnt talks said Washington and its partnors have no intnn­t.ion of nwnting tho dnmand. 
Af'tnr his first mw-on-onn mooting with thn North Kornan dnlngation at this round of six­nation talks on tho communist nation's nudPar program. U.S. Assistant Socrotary of Statn Christoplwr llill said tho sides "did not rnakn a lot of progrnss." 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Ophelia closes in on North Carolina 
CAI!OLINA BEACII. N.C. -llurricano 
Oplwlia lashed tho North Carolina eoast with 
high winds and )wavy rains Wednesday, 
lwginning an antidpatnd two-day assault 
that thrnatnnnd snrious flooding. 
With tlw slow-moving storm expnetnd to produr.n up to 15 inclws of rain in plaees, (;ov. Mikn 1\aslny told pnopln to get out of' the storm's path. 
"If you have not hnndP.d the warning IH~forn. Int. nw bn dear right now: Ophelia is a dangerous storm." thn govnrnor said from Halnigh, warning of' storm surges that could rnar.h I I feet. 
As it bruslwd tho coast, Ophelia rippAd away onn harrinr islaiul street and chased n11wrgnncy pmsonnnl to sheltor. The storm had sustained wind of' S5 mph Wndnesday af'tnrnoon, aec:ording to the National llurrir.arw Cnntt~r. 

Texas woman executed for murders 
IIUNTSVILLE, T1~xas-Frances Nnwton was nxnr.utnd Wndnnsday for tlw f'atal shootings of' lwr husband and two children 1S years ago, bm:oming tlw third woman. and first black woman. to bn put to dnath in the state since nx1H:utions n~sumnd in \9S2. 
Strapped to thn dnath chambnr gurney and with hnr parnnts among the people watching, slw dedinnd to makn a final statmnnnt. quietly saying "no" and shaking her head when the wardtm asked if she would likn to speak. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Slain inmate avoided death penalty 
SOUTII BI•:ND. Ind. -The prosecutor who snnl a man to prison for fatally beating and stabbing a 10-ynar-old hoy says the inmate's dnath f'rom a fight at tfw Indiana Statn Prison was "podicjusti<:n." 
l'rosnr.utors had sought thn death penalty against Jason Patrick f'or Evan Parker's mur­dnr. but a judgn ruh~d that I'a trick was mnntal­ly n~tardnd and could not be nxneutnd. 
Patrick, 23, was injured Snpt. 2 during a fight in a disciplinary unit at the prison in Michigan City and latnr taken by helieopter to Wishard Mmnorial Hospital in Indianapolis, whnrn ho dind Monday, prison oflieials said. 

Roberts nears confirmation 
Nominee sidesteps controversial questions from Senate Judiciary Conzmittee 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON­
Supreme Court nominee 
John Hoberts carefully 
picked his way through a 
second day of questions 
from the Senate Judiciary 
Committee on Wednesday 
as Hepublicans challeng11d 
Democrats to support his 
all-but-certain eonfirma­
tion as the nation's 17th 
chiefjustice. 
"If p11ople can't vote for you, then I doubt that they can vote for any Hepublican nominee," said Sen. Orrin Hatch, H-Utah. 
Minority Dnmocrats sounded unswayed. 
Sen. Charles Schumer told Hoberts he was "cut­ting baek a little on what you said yesterday," refer­ring to an earlier state­mnnt that the Constitution provides a right to privacy. 
The New York Dnmoerat made his charge al'ter Hoberts d11clined to cite any examples of disagree­ment with the opinions of Justice Clarence Thomas on the subject. Thomas has written there is no general right to privaey, a right often viewed as the underpinning of a right to abortion. 

"We are rolling the dice with you," Sen. Joseph Bielen, D-Del., told the 50­year-old appeals court judge, who turned aside Hoberts was not asked for haven't been as succ:essfu I Officials in both parties questions about abortion, his opinion. as you have been," said say Hoberts is likely to the right to die, the per­For the seeond straight Sen. Mike DeWine, H-Ohio, rneeivc votos f'rom several missibility of torture and day, Hoberts fielded ques­one of several Hepublicans Democrats when his nomi­other issues he said may tions calmly, summoning who spoke as if giving a nation reaches the full comn before the court. descriptions of past cases send-off messagn to a man Snnal!). Among them are 
Even as Roberts fielded from memory. He spiced about to embark on a new senators who n~prnsnnt questions, there was fresh his testimony with a sense mission. Hopubliean-lnaning states evidence of the contentious of humor, promising at one GOP ol'ficials say they or those who joinnd in a issues that await him if he point that if confirmed. he are confident of the sup­bipartisan compromisn is confirmed to replace the would not seek a pay raise port of all 10 Hepublican earlier this year to dnfusn late Chief Justice William "next week." members of the panel a threatennd showdown 
II. Rehnquist. There were Hepublicans projeeted when the eommittoe roll is over the administration's gasps from the audience ever greater confidence called on Thursday next conservative appnals court when word was relayed that he would soon preside wnek, although it is possi­judges. from the committee dais in the grand marble ble all eight Demoerats Schumer, who chairs his that a federal judge in Supreme Court building will oppose him. The full party's snnatorial cam­California had ruled the across the street from the Senate may vote the fol­paign committen, told recitation of the Pledge of Capitol. lowing week, in tim11 for reportnrs af'ter the day's Allegiance in public "We need you to bring to Hoberts to take his seat session he doubted tho schools was unconstitu­the eourt your eompassion before the high court vote would loom as onn of tional beeause it includes and your understanding opnns a new term on Oct. tho major issues in the the words "under God." for the lives of others who 3. 2006 midterm nlnetions. 

IRAQ 

Al-Qaida bombings kill at least 160 
Shiite Muslim neighborhood of Iraqi troops and tho govnrnmnnt in 
Associated Press 

Kazimiyah. an audiotape postnd Wednosday on 
BAGI!DAD -A spasm of retaliato­In what was believed to be a nnw an Internet site known for carrying ry violence, elaimed by ai-Qaida in tactic, the bomber set off the explo­extromist Islamic contnnt. the name of Sunni insurgents, ripped sive after calling the eonstruction and The ai-Zarqawi tape was a cl<mr through Baghdad on Wednesday. At other workers to his small van and attnmpt, coming on tlw h<H~Is of the feast 160 people were killed and 570 enticing them with promises of attaeks, to creato a dimatn of fnar. wounded in more than a dozen highly employment, a witness said. At toast sow deeper sectarian discord and coordinated bombings -the capital's 112 people were killed and more seare Iraqis away from the Oet. 15 bloodiest day sinee the end of major than 200 were wounded, Health refp,rendum on a new constitution. eombat. Ministry oflieials said. Twist11d hulks Iraqi forees arrnstod two insurgents 
The massive campaign of violencn of vAhieles bloeked tho bloodstained in connection with the Kazimiyah terrorized tho capital for more than main street in Kazimiyah's Oruba bombing, one of thmn a Palestinian nine hours. The first attack, at 6:30 Squarn. and the othnr a Libyan, Iraqi tnhwi­a.m., was the deadliest: a suicide car Al-Qaida's leadnr in Iraq, Abu sion quotod Prinw Minister Ibrahim blast which tore through assembled Musab al-Zarqawi, purportndly ai-Jaafari as saying. AI-.Jaaf'ari also day laborers in tho predominantly declared "all-out war" on Shiites, said the suicide bombnr was a Syrian. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 15, 2005 

19l-/()-2()()_5 



Accident 
continued from page 1 
able with it because of his incredible love of the arts." 
Riley-Schofield had a way of inspiring his students, even at their lowest points, Tonozzi said. 
"If I was having a rough les­son, he always talked to me like I could sing at [The Metropolitan Museum of Art] tomorrow," Tonozzi said. "That's the type of man he was. He had a never­ending belief in my capabilities." 
Though some students did not have the opportunity to know Riley-Schofield personally, he managed to leave an impression even after brief meelings. 
''I'm a freshman, but I actually saw Professor 
Riley-Schofield for Sunday's mass." 
"He was a great
the first time last Before coming year when I came professor and a to teach at Notre to sing for the wonderful man. He Dame, Riley­
music department," Schofield worked
will be sorely 
freshman Kate as an interna­Hedrick said. "I missed." tional soloist remember him as a opera singer for smiling and bubbly 25 years, Roche
Nick Tonozzi 
person. He had the said. Fluent in
senior voice major 
most amazing per­German, French 
sonality." 
Voice students at Notre Dame came to love Riley-Schofield for his ability to make each student feel important and talented. 
"He sort of brought out the best in us. Even though I didn't have him for long, he still brought it out of me in that short time," freshman Alex Woller said. 
While students said singing can sometimes be difficult, Riley-Schofield's encouraging nature made them eager to work harder. 
"He made every situation com-
ANI)I~EWS 

SEI{VICE IN 
fortable," freshman Simone Stickler said. "He was very car­ing and always rooting for you." 
A memorial service on campus is currently in the planning stages, Roche said. 
"I hope they have a memorial service to honor him," Tonozzi said. "l-Ie was a great professor and wonderful man. He will be sorely missed." 
The daily mass in Cavanaugh Hall was said for Riley-Schofield Wednesday night. 
"We have a number of girls who were in the voice program and one actually approached me this afternoon and was pretty upset so we decided to offer the mass in his honor tonight," Cavanaugh assistant rector Whitney Thomspon said. "Of course, we'll also keep him in 
our intentions at 
and Italian, he also worked as a phonetic coach. 
Riley-Schofield received a diploma in music from the University of 1-Iuddersfield 's School of Music and Humanities in the United Kingdom. He also had a teaching diploma in singing performance from the Royal Academy of Music, Roche said. 
He is survived by his wife, Britta Sporkmann of Germany. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 

As we celebrate the 25th Anniversary ofthe James F. Andrews Scholarship Fund, we express our gratitude to the Andrews and McMee/ families for their support ofover 1200 students in Summer Service Internships across the country. 
The Center for Social Concerns 


THE OBSERVER 







USINESS
Thursday, September 15, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,544.90 -52.54

}ones 
~. 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume I , 0 I 5 I 4 I .y82 2,082,364, I 00 ''¥' 

AMEX 1,708.88 +18.55 NASDAQ 2, 149.33 -22.42 NYSE 7.577.29 ~0.% S&PSOO 1,227.16 -4.04 
NIKKE.I(J"okyo) I2, X 3 l .66 ~2.59 FTSE IOO(London) 5,347.40 +9.40 
COMPANY  %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE  
NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ)  -1.14  -0.45  39. I 8  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -1.65  -0.41  24.49  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -2.25  -0.41  17.84  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.64  -0.17  26.31  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  -1.47  -0.20  13.44  

30-YEAR BOND +0.70 +0.31 44.53 
10-YEAR NOTE +0.82 +0.34 41.68 
5-YEAR NOTE +0.69 +0.27 39.58 
3-MONTH BILL -1.73 -0.59 33.45 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +1.98 65.09 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +3.70 453.70 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.93 80.68 
Excha Rates 

YEN I I 0.560C 
EURO 0.814<J 
POUND 0.548~ 
CANADIAN$ 1.181 ~ 
IN BRIEF 
Senate approves housing vouchers 
W/\SIIIN<;T<lN -Morn than :~50,000 fami­lies rnadn homeless by llurricane Katrina would get mnnrgency housing vouchers under a measure approved Wednesday by the Sonate. 
Any displacod family regardlnss of income would ho nligibln for thn program. which is slatml to cost $3.5 billion ovnr six months. 
Tlw nwasure. by Sen. Paul Sarbanes, D-Mcl., was atlachml on a voice vote to an unrelatod spending bill covoring tho Commerce and !lousing and Urban Dnvolopment depart­nwnts. The Sonatn is slated to pass the overall hill Thursday, hut a linal vorsion needs to bn workod out with tlw llousn, which passed a simalar spending bill for the two departments last .Juno. 
Automakers embrace hybrids at show 
I'H/\NKI'UHT. Cormany-/\ftor some initial skepticism, the world's automakers are emhraeing hybrid vehieles in an effort to match Toyota's succnss and givn customers mor(~ options to combat high gas pricns. 
/\t the Frankf"urt auto show this week, German automakers Volkswagen 1\G, /\udi /\G and Porsdw /\(; said they were forming an alliance to develop hybrid engines. Last week, BMW /\C joinnd General Motors Corp. and DaimlerChrysler /\G in a similar partnership. 
French automaker PSI\ Peugeot-Citroen also wants to develop hybrid technology and may join forces with another company to share costs, Chairman and Chief Executive .loan-Martin Folz said. 
/\udi unvoiled the first gas-electric hybrid vehiele from a Europnan automakllr at the show, a version of its new Q7 sport-utility vchidn that will go on sale in 2008. 
DaimlnrChrysl(~r also said it will release its first hybrid Mereedns before the n1~xt Frankfurt auto show, whieh will be held in 2007. 
Toyota Motor Corp. remains the runaway loader in tlw field. Tho .lapanesn eompany was tlw lirst to lwgin mass-produdng hybrids with its Prius in 19117. Toyota sold 53,761 Prius r.ars in tho United States last year. and Prius sales wnrn up 133 pnrennt in the first c~ight months of this ynar, aeeording to the c·.om pany. 
Delta, Northwest file bankruptcy 
Airlines become third, fourth major carriers to file Chapter 11 since 2001 
Associated Press 
Delta Air Lines Inc. and Northwest Airlines Corp., hobbled by high funl eosts and !wavy dnbt and pen­sion obligations, filed for bankruptcy protection from creditors Wndnnsday, lwcoming thn third and fourth major carriers to enter Chapter 11 since the 2001 terror­ist attacks. 
Dnlta's late aftnrnoon filing induded its low-faro subsidiary Song and was l'ollownd shortly after by Northwest's. 
Delta's total debt is roughly $28.:~ billion, and it listod $21.6 billion in assets, according to the riling. The asset l"igurc~ would makn Delta's bank­ruptcy the ninth-largest in 
U.S. history, according to bankruptcy tracker New Generation Hesearch I ne. Thn ranking did not change following llnlta's rnccnt $425 million sale of' feeder carrier Allan lie Southeast Airlines t..o SkyWest Inc. 

Delta and Northwest said passengers were not expected to see any imme­diate efTects from the fil­ing. Delta also promised to honor all tickets and sent a letter to frequent­l'lier customers seeking to rnassure them. Northwest said it would continue to operate normally its fre­quent flyer and sion and health benefits rier, has lost nearly $10 Dallas. WorldPerks Visa pro­for workers and retirees, billion over the last four Northwest, the country's grams. that would have been years despite announcing fourth-largnst airline, had 
"We are operating our more difficult or impossi­it would cut up to 24,000 been in better f'inaneial full schedule of flights, ble without protected sta­jobs. The airline industry shape than somn of its honoring tickets and tus. was hit hard by the Sept. competitors, with an reservations as usual, and Delta was expected to 11, 2001 attacks, which ext~nsive /\sian network making normal refunds continue its normal sched­prompted many people to and cargo business both and exchanges," Gerald ule. However, as the com­cut back on air travel. thought to be profitable. Grinstein, chief executive pany makes its way In September 2004, But that changed al'tnr 9­of Delta, said in the letter. through bankruptcy court, Delta also said it would 11, the rise in fuel prices 
Chapter 11 protection some changes to Delta's shed its Dallas hub as part and the npidemic of S/\HS, will allow Delta to pursue operations could occur, of a sweeping turnaround a virus that sprnad cuts in wages for its analysts say. plan aimed at saving the through several /\sian 65,000-plus full-time Atlanta-based Delta, the airline. It has since sealed countries, whkh eut into a mnployees, as wnll as pen-nation's third-largest car-baek its operations in eoro Northwest businnss. 

Trial begins in second Vioxx case 
heart attack but didn't disclose it, were to blame, not Vioxx. She said
Associated Press 

Seeger said in his 90-minute open­the Whitehouse Station-based com­
ing statement. pany had published studies about 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J.-A product "Did they issue a 'Dear Doctor' let­safety risks and notified the Food liability trial focused on whether the ter? No. Did they warn patients? No, and Drug Administration of their painkiller Vioxx caused a man's they didn't do that either. Did they findings. heart attack started Wednesday, change the label? No, they didn't," Merck's scientists were keenly with his lawyer telling jurors the he said.. interested in potential safety con­drug's maker put profits over safety. Under pressure to introduce new cerns about the drug, she said, Merck & Co., the drug's manufactur­drugs because its patents on others showing jurors a copy of a 2001 e­er, asserted other causes were to were about to expire, Merck rushed mail message from the eoropany's blame. Vioxx to market, cutting the custom­research chief, Edward Seolniek, 
Chris Seeger, lead attorney for 60-ary development time in half, written after a study showed an year-old Frederick "Mike" throwing a $1 million party for increased risk of cardiovascular Humeston, a Boise, Idaho postal 3,500 sales associates to launch it complications for those taking the worker, said Humeston was a and spending $100 million on con­drug for more than 1 S months. healthy, active Vietnam veteran who sumer advertising, Seeger told the "I was siek at the thought wn were enjoyed hiking until he was stricken jury. doing harm to patinnts," Seolniek two months after his doctor pre­"The survival of the company" was wrote. scribed Vioxx to n~lieve pain from a on the line at the time of the drug's "For you to believn tho plaintiff's war injury. 1999 debut, he said. case, you'd have to helilwn that all 
Merck knew the drug had links to But Merck attorney Diane Sullivan these people got together and did increased incidence of heart attacks countered that Humeston's physieal something sinistnr," Sullivan told the long before llumeston's Sept. 2001 condition and other risk factors jury. 
page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, September 15, 2005 
AVE CRUX SPES UNICA 



The Congregation ofHoly Cross 
invites you to join us in celebrating the 

Principal Patroness ofthe Congregation 
TODAY 

Thursday, September 15, 2005 At 5:15p.m. In the Basilica ofthe Sacred Heart 

ALL ARE WELCOME 
. 


. 


~--------------------------------------------------------------------·----------------------------~------~--~-------------­
Thursday, September I 5, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

For full-service hotels, as rarely oversell for football well as hotels on tho edge of weekends to avoid "walking"

Hotels 
campus, prices ean go up to situations -finding guests a $500 per night. vacancy in a closer, compara­

continued from page I 
Out of town hotels do not ble hotel. 

ll Jl i II S Jl r i ll g a II d S U Ill Ill Ill" tend to raise prices as high. "If you're ever in a walking months, and hotnls up to an llotel managers chalk it up situation, you're walking hour away can sen Notre to supply-and-folks to Damn-clad fans stn~aming in demand. the fun-Chicago," and out of tludr doors. danwntal prineipln Schumaker
"The phone just, 

"i\s I ran gathor, from bor­of hotel manage­said.
literally, it does 

dPr to hordPr, from Ohio to ment. Tomei, the Illinois, hotels raise their "Pricos for hotels ring offthe hook. " general man­ratos but almost always fill are usually gener­ager in up," Tonwi said, whose hotel ally comparable to LaPorte, said
Rona Brenner

is completely filled with Notro other hotels in the even when 
general manager,

Damn fans this WPI'kend. arna, it's a basie their hotel is 
i\t local hotels, tlw system market strategy Jamison hotel booked, the is down to a scionce. according to basie common prac­Throughout tiHl season, they rates," said Vince tice is to refer track each wtwkf~nd's room Willis, assistant general man­customers elsewhere. occupancy and requests in ager or the Hampton Inn on "Last year when I called the order to gauge next year's West University Drive. "We 1-800 number for all chain ratos at end-of-the-season have the prices that other hotels ... there was at least a moctings. hotels are charging within 100-to 200-mile radius 
i\s football season draws our range, we want to be where I was trying to find rwarnr, resorvation managers competitive." people a place to stay, but keep boards of vacancies While it may seem like couldn't," he said. "It's kind mapped out noxt to their highway robbery to some, of a hard situation, the guests phorw. and stay even the most are absolutely exhausted." in constant com­high-end hotels While the idea of building munication with "As I can gather. find that cus­more hotels gets tossed Pac:h otlu•r. from border to tomers are will­around, hotel mangers say 
lintels have a ing to pay the lower occupancy rates during
border. from Ohio

vested intPrnst priees. the rest of the year would in following to Illinois, hotels "Price resist­make that plan unattractive. No t r ~~ I> am e raise their rates ance is negligible, "i\rn you going to build a football so of about 500 peo­hotel just for football wonk­
but almost always

rl o s td y, as i t ple that tried to ends? You don't build a gPnl'ratns a Jill up." get in about 20 church for East11r Sunday," largl' portion of said no because Schumacher said. "If you're t.lwir revemw. Christopher Tomei of price," said an owner of a hotel, are you For hot.ols that Gina Shumaker, going to fill it up halfway for
general manager,

normally rhargP director of mar­most of the year?"
Hampton Inn 

$100 per room keting at the For thosn who don't want to pn r n i g h t , t lw downtown call dozens of hotels, the standard football weekend Marriott hotel. "That's less South . Bend/Mishawaka ratP is close to $225 per night than 10 pnreent." Convention and Visitors' with a two night minimum. Although hotels customarily Bureau, an initiative of the although pricns can rnac:h up oversell to compensate for Chamber of Commerce, to $300. eaneellations, local hotels serves as a link between 34 
Obsefver 

The Holiday Inn and other hotels located on Route 31 have both higher rates and rates of occupancy when football season begins. 
hotels and guests in search of able in town for later games. vacancies. Hotel managers agree that 
"Probably beginning in July when the team dons bnttHr, we begin to keep track [of cancellations are fewer. hotels]." said Marijo Thny are still rnceiving calls Martinec, Director of for this weekend's game, but Communication and Public now fans arn starting to look Helations. "Based on when forward to next season. tickets are released, we begin "Ynsterday we had (>3 calls to see a spike in the calls. We total. it had a lot to do with are in touch with hotels con­football. mainly requests for stantly now, we monitor how '0 6 ganws, es pneially l'e n 11 many rooms they have avail­State and Purdun," said Trish able. Stewart-Corwin, rnsnrvation 
"We don't keep a track list manager at thn Inn at St. of, say, Joe Smith from Mary's. Nebraska's coming into town Hona Brenrwr, gmwral man­and wants a room. We say ager of thn .Iamison hot.l'l, ·cheek back in with us, hotels said that thnir wait-list is still will call us if they have a can­"a mile long" l'or this snason. cellation."' "The phonn just, literally, it 
Hooms for this weeknnd 's dons ring off tlw hook," slw game as well as the Oet. 15 said. game against USC are virtual­ly sold out, Marinec said, but Contact Janice Flynn at there are some rooms avail-jflynn 1 @nd.edu 
page 10 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 15, 2005 
Fair 
continued from page 1 
Among the crowd at the Joyce Center to represent their new businesses were Notre Dame alumni and stu­dents who had just finished 
internships over the previous summer. 
Dan Siracuse, a senior at Notre Dame and intern at EchoStar this past summer, was one such student working the booth for EchoStar Satellite LLC. 
"I gave my resume to them last year at this Career Fair," he said. "They called me for an interview the following day. I 
call from one of the compa­nies they spoke to," Karkiewicz said. 
The Career Fair is a great way for students to see what companies are coming to Notre Dame to recruit. And companies are looking, Karkiewicz said. 
Compared to last year, 100 more interviews have been 
"Students can at least walk away from this fair with their name out in the business world and most likely a phone call from one ofthe companies they spoke to." 
Robyn Karkiewicz Career Center manager for office services 
then took an online aptitude test, had to write a case report and was offered the internship soon after. It was a great experience working for them." 
Karkiewicz said such suc­cess stories at the fair are not unusual. 
"Students can at least walk away from this fair with their name out in the business world and most likely a phone Karkiewicz said. These interviews take place in the Career Center. There are 25 indi­vidual rooms available for interviews. 
scheduled  for  
these  few  days  
following  the  
actual  fair,  

"The economy must be doing pretty well because these companies are looking for people to fill jobs," Karkiewicz said. 
While this Career Fair is 
geared towards the business students at Notre Dame, there will be an English Career Fair later this fall, in addition to an Arts and Letters Fair on Oct. 3. 
The Winter Career Fair, with a similar format to last night's expo, will be held Feb. 1. 
Contact Katie Linhares at klinhare@nd.edu 



Michigan abortion lavv cut dovvn 
Judge rules ban on partial birth procedure to be unconstitutional 
Associated Press 
LANSING, MiCh. -A federal judge has declared unconsti­tutional a Michigan law that supporters said would ban a late-term abortion procedure. 
In a ruling dated Monday, 
U.S. District Court Judge Denise Page Hood in Detroit ruled the Legal Birth Definition Act places an "undue burden" on women's right to choose. 
Hood said the law is confus­ing and vague, and its excep­tions for the health or life of a mother are meaningless and unconstitutional. 
"The act does not describe any specific procedure to be banned," Hood wrote. "The act also does not distinguish between induced abortion and pregnancy loss." 
Parties in the lawsuit learned of the ruling late Wednesday when it was obtained by the Detroit Free Press. It was not immediately clear why the parties were not notified of the ruling. 
Proponents of the law said they were attempting to !;:>an a procedure they call "partial­birth" abortion. Previous attempts by state lawmakers to stop the abortion proce­dure were struck down by federal courts in 1997 and 2001. 
Doctors label the practice "intact dilation and extrac­tion," or D&X. During the pro­cedure, generally performed in the second trimester, a fetus is partially removed from the womb and the skull punctured. Some doctors say it is the safest option for women in some circum­stances. 

Hood agreed with abortion rights groups that argued the law would ban all pre-viable abortions, including "dilation and evacuation," or D&E, the most common method of sec­ond-trimester abortion. 
Wendy Wagenheim, a spokeswoman for the American Civil 
allowed the bill to become law with only the approval of the House and Senate -both of which are controlled by 
Republicans  after  
Democratic  Gov. Jennifer  
Granholm vetoed it.  

Since similar laws have been struck elsewhere, anti­abortion advocates tried a new approach with the Michigan ban. 
Rather than name the pro­cedure specifically, the law defined birth as the moment any portion of the fetus emerges from a 

Liberties Union woman's body,
"The act does not
of Michigan, making the fetus
describe any
said the law a legally born would have specific procedure person under the banned virtually law. A doctor
to be banned. " 
all abortion, could not do D&X including those unless it was in the first Denis Page Hood necessary to save trimester. District Court Judge the mother's life 
According to the ACLU, as of August 2004, at least 31 states had enacted bans on "partial-birth" abor­tions. The laws have been struck down in at least 20 states, the organization said. 
The Michigan Catholic Conference said it disagrees with the judge's ruling and will urge Attorney General Mike Cox to appeal. 
The state Legislature approved a law attempting to ban the procedure in June 2004. Hundreds of thousands of voters signed petitions that 
or to avoid an 
"imminent 
threat" to her physical health. 
In 2003, President Bush signed the federal Partial­Birth Abortion Ban Act, but it was not enforced because of legal challenges. 
Also Wednesday, Missouri lawmakers gave final approval to a bill aimed at discouraging abortions by imposing new restrictions on physicians and allowing law­suits against people who help teens get abortions without parental consent. 


!LOCO FEVER) with li11glish <ul11itlr.< 
Presented at the Vcnic<', lbronto, and Sund.mce film f~Mive~l~ 
MONDAY. SEPTEMBER 19, s,oo •• 
Anncnhcrg Aill.ti\.hrium, Snite Mu!.l.:un1 nf Arl 
e,ao Po 
Snit'-' Museum All·ium. Reception fbr Andn!" Wood uumcJiatdy f'ft-tcthng the i<:rt'clling Light rt!!'ct!shmt!ntM puhli( invital. 
SELECTED FOR SCREENING IN THE DIRECTORS' FORTNIGHT AT THE 2004 CANNES FILM FESTIVAL 
CHILE'S OFFICIAL SELECTION FOR THE 2005 ACADEMY AWARDS 
WINNER OF EIGHT AUDIENCE AWARDS AT FILM FESTIVALS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD 
SUNDAY, SEPTEMBER 18,4:00 P.M.&7:00P.M. HISTORIAS DE FUTBOL, 1997 Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (SOCCER STORIESH1997) with E11glish wutitlts 
New din:(lor awanl winner, San s~h:.tslian International Film Pelili\'al 
Award-witming director Andres Wood will be pres,ent at tlze screenings, witlz "Question and Answer" after the 4:00p.m. screening 
TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 20.8:00 Po 
Annenhcrg Auditorium. ~nite Mu.'leum of J\rl Andres \-Vood will be pr!!sent for "Quc~.;tion .md Answer"
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 21,4:30 P.M. 
Browning Cinema, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center 

Played against the ominous disruptions of "Richly human in focus, the drama steadily cranks up Chilean political life in I 973, MACHUCA stirringly its political and emotional charge, poignantly viewing depicts the developing cross-culture friendship its themes through the eyes of two 11-year-old boys." of two adolescent boys in a polarized society. David Rooney, l'ARTET}' 
THE MACHUCA SCREENINGS ARE FREE BUT TICKETED EVENTS CALL THE DEBARTOLO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER TICKET OFFICE AT 574.631.2800 TO RESERVE TICKETS. 

Thursday, September 15, 2005 
The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 

Bush tnakes renew-ed cotntnittnent to rebuild Gulf Coast 
President vows to pass legislation that would provide job training and housing for those who have to start over 

AP Debra Gunter wrings out dirty floodwater from a mop while helping her friend clean out the garage of her home In the Lakeview area of New Orleans on Wednesday. 
Associated Press 
WASIIINCiTON -The Gulf Coast will lw mended, President Bush intends to pledge in a prime-time address Thursday from Nnw Orlmtns in which lw plans to offer new f1Hinral spending for the monu­nwntal task of !wiping hurri­cane vidims rebuild their lives. 
Bush planrwd to outline a broad plan for n~eonstruction of lives and communities now and in the long term, White llouse prnss serrdary Scott MeCI1dlan said WndnPsday. 
l'n~sidnntial advisors drafting the speech were working on plans for legislation that would provide job !.mining and hous­ing for pnople who have to start over, according to one ltPJHthlkan offidal. 
Tlw advisers also wnre dis­cussing tax credits for busi­nesses to stay in the devastated n~gion, said tlw oiTieial, who was consultNI but wanted to remain anonymous because Bush had yet to deliver the spnech. 
Bush plamwd to dnseribn his urulerstanding of tlw suffering brought on by tlw killer storm whih1 charting a hopdul vision for tlw futuro. Many people. including mmnbnrs of the pres­ident's party. have said Bush should have givm1 that kind of SJHH1ch soon aflnr the hurri­r;uw made landfill in Louisiana on Aug. 29. 
Hatlwr than speak lwfor11 a live audi1mw, Bush planned to stand alorw and broadcast his nwssagn diwctly into tlw cam­era. The White !louse had yet to announce the site of the spnnch, which was to follow Bush's visit to Mississippi. 
The format would be similar to the somber speech he gave in front of the Statue of Liberty three years ago on the first anniversary of the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. 
ABC, CBS. NBC and Fox shuf­fled their Thursday schedules to air his remarks live. Bush planned to speak for about 30 minutes, beginning precisely two minutes after 9 p.m. EDT to accommodate the broadcast­ers. 
McClellan said Bush would dnscribe nHw initiatives, but would not announce the appointment of an offieial to oversee the rncovery effort. Somn GOP allies in Congress have urged to president to do just that. 
"Amnrica has always been a nation that has risen to thH challengn in the face of adver­sity and we will do so again," McClellan said from Air Foree Onn on a f"light baek from a mHeting of the United Nations. 
"Time and time again, we havn eome back from difficult circumstances and rebuilt com­munities after natural disas­ters." McClellan said. 
According to one White HousH aide, Bush planned to acknowledge the role of pover-· ty in the disaster that has aiTectnd many, who could least afford it. 
Bush's approval ratings are the lowest levels of his presi­dency. That is partly because of tho perception of a lacklustHr response to the storm. 
Bush. who prides himsHlf on being a direet communicator, has strugglnd to convey a clear message since the storm hit. He 
Share your space, but live on your own. 
began this week by dismissing questions about what went wrong as a "blamH gamn." But on Tuesday, he said he took responsibility for any failures on the federal end. 
ThH White Ilouse hoped that Bush's acceptance of responsi­bility and the commitment to rnbuilding, as described in the spench, would help restore the president's image as a strong leader. 
Bush has made three visits to the region, seeing examples of the damagH and loss. McCIHIIan said Bush believes that now is the appropriate time to talk to the country. 

"The magnitude and scope of Katrina was unprPcedented and people aeross the Gulf Coast region have gone through tremendous suffering," McClellan said. 
"Tomorrow night is a time to talk to the American people about the importance of com­ing together to do all we ean to support the people of the region as we move forward on the difficult work ahead." the spokesman said. 
Bush was seeking to rally the spirits of storm victims with assurances that "the American people are coming together to · help and we as a nation will be in this for the long haul." McClellan said. 
Bush also intnnded to prom­isn that people's immndiatn needs would be mHt; thnir com­muni tins rnbuilt; and local ideas about how thn new com­munities should look would bn su pportnd. 
"Wn want to see a region that is bettnr and strongnr than before," McClellan said. 
The prnsident planned to lly baek to Washington al"tnr thn speech. lin was to spnak Friday at Washington National Cathedral to mark what he has dnclared as a day of prayer of the victims. 
All furnishings pictured are from Wai-Mart. Storage 
WAL*MART. 

Get everything for your dorm room at Walmart.com and still afford tuition. ALWAYS LOW PRICES. 
f}!!!!:!t" 
Walmart.com 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, September 15, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Abortion and the tnodern Supretne Court 
TIH !tubpmtkttt, DAily N#:W#papn-&ruing Notre Dam~ nnJ Saint Mary's 
PO. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
fAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAG lNG EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(57 4) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.!@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports. I @nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
{574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
OssERVERONLIN£. 
www. ndsmcobserver. com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither insricution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qrmtions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tht Ohstrvtr (USPS 59~ 1·4000) is publhhed Mo-nd>~.y dm>ugh Friday =c~;ept during exam and vacation periods. Asubscription «tThe OOOt:rnr IJ $100 fnr ont academk year; SiS for cme $em~ter-
Th¢ ~rver is published :ar. POSTMASTER· 
024 South Dining Hall Semi addresa: oorttcdons t-o: 
Notre Dame, IN 46';56..0779 Tht omerver 
PcrioQ1Q1 post;agc P~tid at No1m Dame P.:O. Box 779 
and additional mailing otflec!$. 024 Swili Dining Hall 
Nom Dame, lN .f6556-on9 
TI1e Ob~f"Vl:r i5: a member ofdto: .A5socian:d Pt~. All reptoduction rights ate 
tc:sct'icd. 
Why the fuss over Supreme Court nom­inations? The Court merely interprets the law. Right? It wields the power neither of the purse nor of the sword. Until the mid­20th century, nominations to the Court were rarely as contro­versial as they are today. 
The nominations are so important today because the judiciary is no longer, as Alexander Hamilton put it, "the least dan­gerous" branch of gov­ernment (Federalist, No. 78). Rulings by the unelected Supreme Court, with the acqui­escence of Congress and the Executive, bear major responsibility for the terminal decline of the Constitution from its char­acter as the charter of a limited govern­ment with only enumerated powers apportioned among the executive, legisla­tive and judicial branches. 
The Court interprets the Fourteenth Amendment so as to bind state and local governments by the Court's mandates on personal rights, including rights of the Court's own invention such as abortion. It has made the "equal protection of the laws" a license for judicial micromanage­ment of local decisions. The Court impos­es on all governments an impossible neu­trality between theism and non-theism which establishes an agnostic secularism. The Court's edicts on the commerce clause and on federal subsidies give Congress almost a blank check for regu­lation, despite some recent limitations. And so on. The replacement of even one Justice, therefore, can have conse­quences that would have astonished the framers of the Constitution. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The current debates focus on abortion. But the issue is oversold because of the assumption that the appointment of pro­life Justices will be the magic bullet to end the dominance of the abortion culture. 
A Supreme Court "overruling" of Roe v. Wade would have limited impaet on abortion. The essential holding of Hoe is that, whether or not he is a human being, the unborn child is not a "person" until birth and therefore has no constitutional right to life. He may be executed at any time in the pregnancy at the practical discretion of his mother. Such deperson­alization is the principle that underlay the Dred Scott Case in which the Supreme Court said in 1857 that slaves were property rather than persons, and that underlay the Nazi depersonalization and extermination of Jews and others. 
To really "overrule" Roe would be to hold that every human being, from fertil­ization, is a "person" entitled to the con­stitutional right to life. That would forbid governments to withhold the protection of homicide laws from the youngest per­sons, i.e., those in the womb, as if a state were to forbid homicide unless the victim were under eight years of age. 
Both political sides define the "overrul­ing" of Roe as returning the issue to the states, allowing them to restrict or permit abortion. The Supreme Court unani­mously endorses that approach. As Justice Scalia put it in his dissent, in which Rehnquist and Thomas joined, in the 1992 Casey decision: "The states may, if they wish, permit abortion-on-demand, but the Constitution does not require them to do so." That would confirm the nonpersonhood holding of Roe. If your life is subject to extinction whenever a state legislature so decides, then you are a nonperson in the eyes of "the supreme law of the land," the United States Constitution. 
This abandonment of principle con­tributes to the culture of death by foster­ing the impression that abortion and other "life" issues arc negotiable, like a highway appropriation. In a just and free society, the only legitimate issue is whether innocent human beings can be legally executed. The incremental approach frames the issue in terms, not of whether, but of which innocent human beings may be legally executed. A meas­ure of the bankruptcy of the pro-life movement is the focus on partial-birth abortion, which tactic frames the issue not in terms of whether, and not even in terms of which innocents may be legally executed, but in terms of how the killing is to be done. 
Of most importance, technology is mak­ing abortion a private matter beyond the reach of the law. The law treats various pills and devices as contraceptives although they cause abortions by pre­venting implantation of the embryo in the womb. The law cannot effectively prohib­it such abortions. 
So the appointment of a Supreme Court Justice is not the magic bullet that can lift the scourge of abortion from our contra­ceptive, and therefore anti-life, society. It is important to put good judges on the Supreme Court. But the solution is not in politics or law but primarily in prayer, education and the reconversion of the American people to the conviction that the right to life transcends the power of the state because it is the gift of God. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the Law School Faculty. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be contacted at plawecki@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 

OBSERVER POLL
Megan O'Neil Mike Gilloon 
Kelly Meehan Ryan Kiefer Nicole Zook Ken Fowler What color are you Joe Piarulli Scene 
wearing to the home 
Viewpoint Chris McGrady 
football game this 
Joey King Graphics Saturday? Matt Hudson 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 



QUOTE OF THE DAY
lSub }t aLetter: 
"The ultimate test of what a truth means is the conduct it dictates or inspires. "

1to tbe Editor at 
William James philosopher

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Thursday, .September 15, 2005 page 13 
Open Letter to Fr. Jenkins: Evaluating the TCEs 
In this final installnwnt we turn to the issuo of tnachnr-coursn ovaluation. This issun is an offshoot of what appnars to be tho prnvailing tnndPrH:y among adminis­trators to run thn Univnrsity likn a busi­rwss, as wnm tlw pn~­viously trnatnd issues Kenneth of publi1: imaw~ and Sayre grado inflation. 
I havn my car snrv­Guest icml at a garaw~ 
Columnist 

wlu~rn tlwy say my husirwss is appredatml. Aflm each visit I n~cnivn a qunstionnairo asking for ovalu­ation of tlw snrvicn and for suggostions about how it 1:ould lw improved. This qunst.ionnairP always rnakns me think of' tlw TCH forms filled out by my studonts at tlw PIHI of' tlw tnrm. Thnso forms inviln tlw studnnts to evaluate my teach­ing pnrformancn, and to idf'ntif'y ways in whir.h it rwnds improvnm1mt. Thn stu­dPnts lmvn hin~d nw to pnrf'orm a serv­kn, and this is tlwir dumco to let w~opln know wlwtlwr tlwy consider their money wl'll spPnt. 
TlwrP is somPlhing anomalous about tlw timing of tlwso nvaluations. College tnarhing is comparable to the practice of' nwdidrw. in that both an~ dndieatPd to tlw sPrvin~ of otlwr p1~oplo. Consider the ntsP of somnonn who has just undergone major surgory. If' tho operation were imnwdiatnly follownd up by a question­nair~~ asking wlwtlwr tho doctor was allPntivn. tlw nursos dworful and good snrvicn rnrHII'nHI ovorall. the patient might understandably throw it in the wastnhasknt. Only at tho nnd of the rm:ovnry pnriod is it appropriate to oval­uat.n tlw surrnss of tho opnration. 
In tlw nwdil:al casn, it is obvious that tho oiTnctiVIHwss of lhf' oporation cannot lw assossnd hy asking how the patient foPls about it immodiatoly al'tnrwards. For similar rnasons, it snoms inappropri­alP to j udgP thn oll'nctivmwss of a courso by asking how tho student feels about it bPforP the term is ollkially over. The skills lnanwd by the student cannot be realistically testPd until put to use in the months and even years ahead. 
Tlwre is no reasonable doubt that tnarhnrs should bn !wid arcountable for thPir dassroorn pnrformanee. Possession of an advanrPd degree is no guarantee that a JWrson 1~an tPach, and those unabln to do so should not orcupy a lmtehing position. The University should strive for nxc11llence in teaching, as in othnr aeadernic matters. The question is how quality of toaching ean bnst be nval­uatnd. 
L11t us look at the strnngths and wnak­nossos of our current system of TCEs. Th11 presnnt TCEs am useful in rating tho instructor's enthusiasm, ability to stimulatn students and clarity of' presen­tation. Such attributes are obviously important to efl'netivc t11aching. Th11 TCEs are also useful in pointing out problems like impatience and partiality on the part of the teaeher. along with pnrceiv11d inaccessibility outside the classroom. Problems like those can hin­dnr successful t11aching. For b11ginning teachers, it can bo particularly helpful to address shortcomings of this sort beforn they bncome habitual. 
A major disadvantag1~ of our TCEs, on thn other hand. is that they provide little information about what students actually lnarrwd in the course. In particular, they toll us vnry little about what the eourse has added to thn student's grasp of the discipline, or about the extent to which he or slw has comprehended the rele­vant matnrial. In this regard, it should be axiomatie that a succnssful 1:ourse is one that advanens understanding of the disci­pline on the part of its qualilied students. 
The underlying defect of our currnnt systnm of' coursn nvaluation, it soems to mo. is that TCI\ scores arc strongly influ­enend by factors extraneous to tnaching nffnctiveness. Formnost among such fac­tors is studnnl anticipation of grades to hn assignnd at the end of the course. Studies have shown time and again that a studnnt expneting a top grade will rate the instructor highly on the TCE, with the oppositn ell'nct when a poor grade is expncted. A rnscarch report issued a few years ago at Notre Dame, for instance, statl~d that "expectnd cours11 grade is very strongly ... associat11d with student nvaluation of teaching." 
Other incidental faetors influencing TCE rankings arn ago of teacher and personal appearance. Research done at Notn~ Dame has shown that instructors with no more than four to eight years teaching experience receive the highest evaluations, and that ratings received thereafter tend to decline. Another study at the Univnrsity of Texas conducted that "attraetive professors consistently outscore their less comely colleagues by a significant margin on student evalua­tions of tnaehing." It seems that students tnnd to nnjoy their dasses more when the tPacher is good-looking. 

The upshot is that Notre Dame's TCEs in their present embodiment are poor indicators at best of teaching perform­anen. When students come to the key question (#17) asking for overall evalua­tion of teaching they check a box eorrn­sponding to their gut f(~elings at the moment. The unfortunate fact is that individual students have no better idea of' how to evaluate efTcctive teaching than did the people responsible for the design of the present instrument. 
We ne1~d to realize that these short­comings of our current TCE system can­not be rnmedied by changing items on the questionnaire. It is a long-standing truism that quality of education cannot be gauged by quantitative measures. Quality of life cannot be measured by income loveI, quality of' marriage cannot be assessed by number of offspring, and quality of teaching cannot be gaugnd by checking boxes on questionnaires. But if standardized procedures like this will not do the job. what other means might be available? 
One possibility is to put more emphasis on qualitative assessments like those stu­dents currently are asked to write in conjunction with the standard question­naires. These qualitative evaluations take longer to compose and longer to read, in addition to being unsuited for computer processing. But they often eon­lain information that could be useful to teachers and administrators alike. 
Another possibility is to invite studi~nts to make oral reports to a neutral third party, who would convey summaries to the instructor and other pnrsons con­cerned. Reports of this sort could be solicited from students currently enrolled in a given course, and then aug­mented by written reports from former students before or after graduation. Yet another possibility might be to enlist sca­smwd teachers to visit classrooms on a regular basis, and to formulate qualita­tive assessments to be shared with rele­vant parties. While such procedures inevitably would be time-consuming, their results nonetheless would probably makn them worthwhile. 
As long as instrumnnts relying on qtwstionnairns renta.in in placo, hownvnr. administrators rnsponsibln for tnaehing evaluation should takn steps to avoid t.lw eountnrproductivn nf'f'nds of t.hn prnsnr1l systnm. One stnp to <~onsidnr· is tlw adjustment of TCE scorns according to the grading practiens of individual instructors. A givnn scorn for an instruc­tor who givns all As and A-s should not count as nqual to tho sarnn score for a morn disr.riminating gradnr. This nxpndi­ent not only would make evaluation of teachers morn equitable. but would also tnnd to discourage gradn inflation. 
Another salutary step might lw to stop rank-ordering TCE scorns on a pnr­enntiln basis. Ciwn tho insensitivity of the instrument. an instructor ranking in tho middle might be no lnss skillml as a teadwr than someone ranking at tlw top of the scaln. It seems a bit absurd to usn percentagns from I to 100 in grading tnadwrs when tnadwrs arn eonfinnd to a fnw letters in grading students. 
A final suggnstion is that your adminis­tration should discourage tlw publication of TCE results for students to usn in snlneting coursns. Until a realistic mnans is found to assoss teaching performance, the TCEs should be dnemphasized in Univnrsity decision-making. Teaching with intPgrity is hard enough without having to cope with this kind of firkin publicity. 
Oncn again, John, I wish you good for­tune in your nfl'orts as l'residnnt of t.lw world's greatost. Catholic univnrsity. I look forward to contributing whatevnr I can to tlw sucenss of Notm Damn's mis­sion under your lnadnrship. One small eontribution might lm to stimulatn a University-widn discussion of the issuns treated abovn. The possibility of this happnning prornptnd my dedsion to make this letter available to the Univnrsity community at largo. 
Kenneth .'·layre is a professor (~f philos­ophy. This column is the last in a Jour­part series addressed to new l !ni1wrsity President Father John Jenkins. Kenneth Sayre can be contacted at ksayre@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obsenwr. 
-----================================================================================ 


Continuing tradition of faith at Notre Dame 
This afternoon at the Basilica there will lw a Mass at 5:15 p.m. to celebratn the Fnasl of Our l.ady of Sorrows, thn patronal fi~ast of the <:ongregation of IIoly Cross. Of' coursn, nvnryorw is invited to attend this spndalliturgy, which I think takes on a special Father Richard rharadnr this ynar in Warner view of the inaugura­tion next week of Faithpoint Father John Jenkins as prosichmt. 
Many books havn bn1m written about the fitscinating history of thn University. In one of' thnm. a former proli~ssor, Ed Fisher, wl'<~rs to tlw many pnople who have played spneial rolns in developing our Catholic identity as "a long dnscending blessing." 
Ovnr its I (,3 ynar history. the story of Notm Damn is intertwined with the history of I loly Cross. It is the story of' a mligious mngrngation mmposPd of' men and wonwn who fulfill thnir vocations working togntlwr, at the mil of' the Church, often under dmllenging circumstances, but almost always inspired by great leaders, dnrieal and lay, whose vision necessarily excnndnd what appnared to be within their roach. Father Jenkins is the 17th priest to snrvn as pmsidnnt, but numerous and ded­il:ated men and women have always workml shoulder-to-shoulder with his predecessors in pursuing what has often 
appeared to be an impossible dream. 
Many special and well bnloved places 
around our beautiful campus stand as tes­
timonies to our predecessors' faith. More 
than 150 years ago, in 'I H54, the Catholic 
Chureh dedarnd as revealed truth what 
erudite thinkers and simple believers had 
believed and held in their hearts for many 
centuries -that Mary was conceived 
without sin in view of the Son she would 
bear. The dogma of the Immaeulate 
Conception is beautifully proclaimed by 
the statue of Mary atop thn Golden Dome 
in shining splendor. In a completely difl'er­
ent setting, Mary is honored under the 
same title by a simple statue in the Grotto 
surroundnd by roeks, foliage and a sacred 
silence. 
Extraordinary leaders, filled with simple 
faith and with astounding insight and 
intelligence, fill volumes of' our history as 
an institution. First among them is our 
fimnder, Father Edward Sorin, whose love 
fi1r Mary lnd him almost instinctively to . dedicate this institution to her. 
Other religious leaders who stand out in 
our history in dude other I loly Cross reli­
gious such as Cardinal John ()'!lara, and 
Fathers John Cavanaugh and Theodore 
Ilesburgh. For each lloly Cross religious 
from our first 125 years whom one eould name, there are numerous lay members of the faculty. Some of them are depieted on the "Wall of Fame" on the !,'Tound floor of the Main Building, but the number of those so honored eould be multiplied by 10 or even 100. 

In our more recent years, when the gov­ernance of the University was given over to a board composed of Holy Cross reli­!,rious and lay people in 1967, numerous and significant benefactors and a faculty composed of' some of the best minds and most ell'ective teachers in our country join this long line of distinguished men and women. Today, some of the brightest minds in the country have come to Notrn Dame, or stayed here, precisely because of our religious character. 
The Notre Dame Community is also composed of' intelligent young men and women who are extraordinarily well rounded, energetic, service-oriented and steeped in the Catholic faith or in another faith tradition, and who are completely satisfied at a university which has exceed­ed their high expectations and who are proud to be "Domers." Most of these stu­dents have worked hard to achieve what tor a significant number of them is the walization of a dream to be here for their undergraduate education and formation. And in the years to eome, they will be our most signifieant supportnrs in overy way boca usn of' thoir four years under thn Dome whieh will change their lives liwovnr. 
As our community prnpares fi1r the events surrounding the inauguration, thoughts about our living Catholie hnritagn and tradition will undergird our eelnhra­tion. I hope and believe that Notrn Dame will nnver bo dntnrrod from spnaking unabashedly about our Catholic heritage and tradition. It is who wn arn. 
What is spodal about Notre Damn fiw so many of' us is that our Univorsity undnr­stands the spodal role of' the Congn~gation of lloly Cross, nmbraens our commitment to faith, aecepL-; the ehallcmging attradivn­ness of our significant and achievabln aspi­rations, exprnssos our gratitude fi1r who we are as individuals and as mombnrs of' a community of scholars and a eommunity of bolievers, and om bod ins our dnep11st desirn f'or what wn know is tlw work of God, at the continuing call of' the Churl'.h, under the loving patronagn of Mary, Notre Dame, Our Mother. 
Father llichard Warner is the director of campus minist.ry. 1/e can be contacted at Warner.2@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obser11er. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENEpage 14 
Thursday, September 15, 2005 

Finding their way b 
Alumni from around country return to Notre Dame to celebrate accom 
what I love as a eareer. 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 

Jilanne Klaus, class of '90, has done 
Assistalll Scene Editor 

film, television and TV work in New 
York and Los Angeles for the last 15 
Film, Television and Theatre majors years. She ·has also worked as an from around the country and from a actress In commereials for produets wide range of graduating classes will sueh as Anheuser Busch, Gateway gather on the Notre Dame campus for Computers, Kodak, MasterCard. Dell a series of lecturns, concerts, a Computers and Purina Mills. Michigan State tailgate, and many Klaus: other activities. What excites you most about 
This is the first time a reunion of returning to Notre Dame for the FTT FTT majors will occur on campus. reunion? 
"It was an idea I had about six Hearing the different experiences of months before they opened the other Domers in the business. Performing Arts Center," said Prof. Ted How do you think having students Mandell, who helped organize the see successful Notre Dame FTT alum event, "With a new building celebrat­can change their views about getting ing the arts on campus, it just seemed jobs in the entertainment industry? like the perfect time to reach out to I think a lot can be said about keep­our alum, to bring t«;>gether their tal­ing the faith as you follow any career ents under one roof and to show off path. There are many "good" people in this fantastic facility." . this industry and I am hoping that the 
Events will include screenings of students will hear success stories and 
alumni films like "Keys of Life," "Dirty paths to success from people like this; Old Town," "Trip to Tehuacan" and people who treat others with respect
Photo courtesy of easportsbig.com 
"Intelligent Life." There will be lec­and dignity and who follow their
Jeff Spoonhower, class of '99, was involved in the production of hit games
tures by individuals such as Bill Carter, hearts and dreams with honesty and
such as "NFL Street" and "NFL Street 2." 

who wrote the book "The Late Shift," integrity. At the end of the journey, in which detailed the late-night talk show the middle of it, or every time the wars that followed Johnny Carson's chance for people with careers in the "Seinfeld," and "Dallas." He currently lights go out, you are left with your pri­retirement. entertainment industry to make con­resides in Los Angeles and has been orities, your compromises, your sacri­
There will also be lectures that focus nections with each other and with cur­nominated for 3 Emmy Awards. fices, your family and friends ... and on the business side of entertainment, rent students. Prof. Ted Mandell feels Souders: · ultimately your self. Rejection and suc­including one entitled, "The Business that: "It'll be a great networking What excites you most about cess cannot be taken too .seriously. and Art of Film & opportunity for everyone returning to Notre Television Workshops: attending. There's some Dame for the FTT The Developers: Who real truth to the notion of reunion? Decides What We See "/ think a lot can " it's who you know" in Seeing the new 
and Why We See It?" these areas, especially for performing arts
be said about
Each lecture will feature our undergrads. The center, which is a
keeping the faith 
a panel of alumni who opportunity to meet and big change coming have experience in the as you follow any learn from so many Notre from Washington particular arena. career path. ,, Dame grads in the busi­Hall. Since I don't 
Other events not ness at one time is truly know too many involving Notre Dame unique, and could be other people going, alumni but dealing with Jilanne Klaus career changing." I am also looking entertainment and alumna A few attendees agreed forward to meeting included in the list are to be interviewed and the other people an Actors From the their experiences reveal who will be attend­London Stage perform-the wide range of careers ing. Can I also say ance of Shakespeare's "Twelfth Night" in the entertainment industry that the football game? and a performance by singer Bruce Notre Dame graduates pursue. That is definitely a Hornsby. A complete schedule of Bob Souders, class of '72, has favorite event of events can be found at http:/ worked as a film editor on such suc­mine. /www.nd.edu/-ftt /reunionevents.shtml. cessful television shows as "Murphy What did you 
Attendees hope the meeting will be a Brown," "The Wonder Years," major in and how has it helped you in your career? 

I majored in FTT and theatre and I learned a lot about Photo courtesy telling stories and Jilanne Klaus, class of '90, has spent 15 years in film and te about how stories has been involved in commercials such as Kodak Film. are put together. 
What challenges have you faced as a film editor? What about going to Notre Dame 
Film editing is much more difficult do you think helps graduates in the than people think, especially sitcoms. entertainment industry? With television you are always working A strong sense of faith, community, returningagainst time and trying to tell a story and family. reunion? in a certain amount of time. People In what ways did going to Notre The mos think that beeause an episode is a half Dame affect your career choices? going to be hour that it only requires a half hour of How does it affect your work now? and sh work. Much more effort goes into it. We arc always challenged with in '99 so I've worked a lot of 80-hour weeks. choices, some easy, some not. I've like this for 
What is the most interesting thing learned to be true to mysp,lf and the kind of that happened on a show you were people whom I love. At the time working on? What is your best memory about 
I used to do trailers for television Notre Dame? now it's shows, and I was working on the show There are so many from quiet see all of "Dallas." We did a trailer that showed moments at the grotto to the roaring things.J.H.'s wife possibly getting blown up in crowds at the stadium ... I could never What did a car, but due to timP eonstraints the choose just one. it helpedscPne was cut so it didn't make any What event are you most looking I was a sense. We got a lot of letters about forward to seeing and why? 
would say~·
that. Other leetures ... learning about the career. I to What do you consider the greatest different areas and choices of my col­duction clas success of your career? leagues es, so that While it's not the most important What piece of work/experience are to filmmaki thing, being nominated for 3 Emmys you most eager to share with the 
how to tell1 
means a lot. Also, being able to do Notre Dame community? 

THE OBSERVER 





CENE


Thursday, September 15, 2005 
ck hotne 

lishments in Film, Television and Theatre 

Entertainment Arts. His current project Is "Saints Row." 
g is just my day job ... my rPal drnam come trw~. 
hower is a 'IJIJ Notre Dame 

video games. The short l'ilm he made as a graduate stu­d n n t , "Intelligent Life," has won awards at sev­eral 111m festi­vals ineluding the South by Southwest Film Festival, the Tam bay In u~ r 11 a ti o 11 a I Film Fest thn Cincinnati lntnrnational Film Fest and the Vancouver Island Film Fnst. lin has also worknd filr Elnctronic Arts and TIIQ, whieh are video gamn eornpanins. lie 
eurrently directs, edits. and animates 

'nd eitwmaties for; Til(). 
~~~··= 11~itns you most about 1 Notre Danw for the FTT 
nxr.i ti ng thing for mo is mnding all thn ot.lwr alum 
oxpnrinnr~ns. I grad uatod .hing likn this rr~ally nxistod us whnrn it was possible to t the pnopln r.oming bark. wlwn I didn't really know ing what in tlw industry so I ol' cool to r~omn haek and r~sn pnopln doing nxriting 
ou major in and how has 1 in you your earner"? 11 st.udrmt at Notrn Damn. I 
had a din~d all"net on my k a lot ol' livn-aetion pro­·ns and video nditing dass­as really my first nxposurn g, so I learned a lot about storios visually. I do that 
every day at work doing animation and filmmaking at work. What challenges have you faeed in working with video games and with 
animated films'? 
As far as video games go, they're a lot different than traditional lilm and prn-rcndernd animated films. Movies have to play in real time in the games, so the diJl'ernnce between that and animated nlms like DreamWorks or Pixar is that those lilms will bn eompletely prn rendnrcd. They will be completely donn and they can do what they want with the film. In a game, we have to ernate movies and ani­
mations and they kind of have to be ehannnlnd through what's ealled a game engine so that tlwy run properly in real time in the gamn. There's all kind of spneialized programming and eodn and tools to get these things to 
work in real time. What is your best memory of Notre Dame'? 
I would have to say being a mem­ber of the marching band. Memories of running out of the tun­nel on Saturdays. 
What event arc you most looking forward to at the FTT reunion and why'? 
I'm leaning toward a eouple of things. I'm looking forward to the panel I'm going to be speaking on. I'm looking forward to meeting the people I'm going to be speaking with to the audience. There's going to be a buneh of editors that are going to be with who work for a buneh of FTT companies that will be fun to talk with them. I'm also looking forward to the tailgate before the football game. All the people showing up are invited to that bBf'on~ the game. I think that it will be a good opportunity to net­work with some people. 
What piece of work or experi­ence that you've had are you most eager to share'? 
Talking about my career and how I've gotten here and what I do. I'm 
probably one of the younger alum so hopefully some questions will come up about what I did when I graduated and how I got where I am. I can relate to 
''I've learned to be true to myselfand the people whom I love." 
Jilanne Klaus alumna 
their situation. I know what they're feeling about to finish school and looking for a job. I always feel good helping students get where they want to be. 
Are there any video games that you've worked on that students might recognize'? 
NFL Street and NFL Street 2. The project that I'm working on is Saint's How for the X­Box 360. We still have a 
ton of work to do but it's going to be awesome. Its capabilities, its graphics arc going to be pretty cool. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

Photo courtesy of sonypictures.com Bob Sauder, class of '72, has also been involved in such hit television programs as "Selnfeld" and "Murphy Brown." 
page 15 

SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
Thursday, September 15 7 p.m. Screening: ND Alumni Film Fest Browning Cinema 
Keys of Life (Jeremy Rail, ND '95) Dirty Old Town (Justin Mitchell, ND '95) Trip To Tehuacan (Gina Vecchione, ND '97) Intelligent Life (Jeff Spoonhower, ND '99) 
10 p.m. Film Screening and Talk: The Late Shift (Bill Carter, ND '71) Browning Cinema 
Friday, September 16 9 a.m. -4:30p.m. FfT Workshops (A continental breakfast & box lunch is included). The-Business and Art of Film and Television Workshops 
Browning Cinema 
Theatre and the Actor Workshops 
Philbin Studio Theatre 
4:45-7:00p.m. Alumni/Student Reception featuring Michael McGlinn Second floor Lobby ofthe PAC 
Saturday, September 17 
8:30 p.m. -I 0 p.m. 
Decio Mainstage Variety Show Decio Mainstage 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 15, 2005 
MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Cleveland wins, cut~ Chicago's lead to five 
Ortiz hits 42nd homer, Boston defeats Toronto to maintain lead in AL East 
Associated Press July 21. into the sixth but Marco Scutaro Bob Wickman gave up a one­followed a leadoff walk to Jay
CLEVELAND Hannie out homer to Mark Kotsay and Payton by dropping a soft liner Belliard's three-run homer in walked Scott Hatteberg with to center. Swisher, who stopped

the seventh inning on Barry 
two outs in the ninth before a 1-for-28 slump on Tuesday,

Zito's 122nd and final pitch 
striking out Dan Johnson for his followed his 18th homer to tie it gave Cleveland a 6-4 win over league-leading 41st save. 3-3.

the Oakland Athletics on On Wednesday night,
Wednesday night, heping the Wickman knocked Johnson off Boston 5, Toronto 3 Indians ahead of the AL wild­his feet while trying to cover David Ortiz hit his career-high card pack. 
base in the ninth inning. 42nd homer, a tiebreaking two­Belliard fell behind 0-2 in the The Indians wasted several run drive in the eighth inning

count before pulling a pitch 
scoring chances against Zito, that led the Boston Hed Soxfrom Zito (13-12) over the wall who was hurt by five walks and over the Toronto Blue Jaysin left for the Indians, who have struggled with plate umpire Wednesday night. 

won nine of 10 and are a major Randy Marsh's tight strike zone. Ortiz drove in three runs forleague-best 30-11 since July 31. 
With the score tied 3-3, the Red Sox, who began the dayCleveland remained one game Jhonny Peralta opened the sev­with a 2 1/2-game lead over the up on the New York Yankees in enth with a single and Zito second-place New York Yankees the wild-card chase and extend­walked Travis Hafner. The lefty in the AL East.

ed their lead over the A's to 3 
recovered by striking out Victor Boston's Gabe Kapler rup­1/2 games. Oakland opens a Martinez, and with Belliard due tured his left Achilles' tendon
four-game series at Boston on up, manager Ken Macha came 
while rounding second base onThursday. out to visit Zito. Tony Graffanino's fifth-inning
Nick Swisher hit a three-run Macha decided to stick with homer.

homer for the A's, who with a Zito, who made Belliard chase 
David Wells (13-7) won for thewin would have moved into a the first two pitches out of the fourth time in five starts, allow­
tie with the Los Angeles Angels zone. But he caught too much of 
ing three runs and in seven

atop the AL West. the plate on his next pitch and innings. Mike Timlin pitched the Yankees (82-62) moved a sea­Chicago White Sox onJake Westbrook (15-14) had Belliard, who had an outstand­ninth for his eighth save in 14 son-high 20 games over. 500 to Wednesday night. 
other plans. He didn't give up a ing series in the field, made a chances. · remain 2 1/2 games behind Chicago lost for just thehit until the sixth and allowed huge contribution with his bat. 
With the score 3-all, Bill first-place Boston in the AL fourth time in 17 games
just two in seven innings. The In the three games, Belliard Mueller singled with two outs East and one back of Cleveland against Kansas City this sea­right-hander, who lost his first had 10 assists, seven putouts and Ortiz homered off Josh in the wild-card race. son, and had its AL Centralfive starts and opened the sea­and was in on six double plays. 
Towers (11-11), the 17th time New York has won the first lead cut to five games over the son 1-7, is 9-2 in 11 starts since Westbrook took a no-hitter he has tied a game or put the two of a three-game set after Cleveland Indians, the smallest Red Sox ahead. Eight of those losing its four previous series lead for the White Sox since have come in the seventh inning against the Devil Rays, who before play on June 16. or later. have won 11 of 18 meetings The Royals scored three runs 
Ortiz homered for the third this year. in the ninth against Dustin straight game and topped his The Yankees' 17-3 victory Hermanson (1-4). who blew his previous high for homers, set Tuesday night marked the fourth save in 38 chances, to last year. He has 38 as a desig­third time this season New snap a 102-game losing streak nated hitter, one more than the York scored at least 17 runs in when trailing after eight major league record set by beating the Devil Rays. innings. Seattle's Edgar Martinez in However, the Yankees lost the Matt Stairs started the rally 2000. next day to Tampa Bay follow­with a one-out single. Emil 
Kapler reached on third base­ing both a 19-8 win on April 18 Brown and Teahen followed man Corey Koskie's throwing and a 20-11 victory on June with consecutive singles to error in the fifth, and 21. score pinch-runner Chip Graffanino followed with a With the bases loaded and Ambres. Berroa then doubled homer to left that tied the score two outs, Jeter lined a 3-2 to right to bring in Brown with 3-3. Kapler then fell to the pitch from Travis Harper to the tying run, and Teahen ground, got up on one knee but right for a 6-4 lead. He had scored when Dye had trouble couldn't continue. only three hits in his previous picking up the ball. 
21 at-bats against Harper. Chris Demaria (1-0) pitched a New York 6, Tampa Bay 5 scoreless ninth to pick up his 
Derek Jeter hit a tiebreaking, Kansas City 10, Chicago 9 first career victory. two-run single in the seventh Angel Berroa's double drove The Royals jumped out to a inning, leading the New York in the tying run, and Jermaine 3-0 lead in the first on Mike Yankees past the Tampa Bay Dye's fielding error allowed Sweeney's two-run homer and Devil Rays Wednesday night. Mark Teahen to score the win­Teahen's RBI single. 
Owner George Steinbrenner ner as the Kansas City Royals The White Sox took the lead watched from a suite as his rallied for a victory over the with a six-run third. 


The Observer accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 
WANTED  FoR SALE  FoR RENT  
Local family looking for part-time  Brand new full mattress & box. Still  LODGING FOR FOOTBALL  
babysitter for two toddlers. Must  in plastic. $120. Can deliver. 574­ GAMES Visit www.amishcoun­ 
love children! References required.  876-4474.  trybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and  
EXPERIENCE A MUST.  Breakfast Accommodations. Non- 
Transportation necessary. Call  Queen pillowtop mattress set. New  smoking, Private Baths, Full  
(574) 247-9213.  with warranty. $155. Can deliver.  Breakfasts.  
574-231-4522.  
$15/hr. babysitter for Oct. 15. 9 yr  GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH- 
old girl from 12:30-6 in your dorm.  CLAY TOWNSHIP home. $65,000.  BORHOODS  
760 803-1153  Land contract. Partially furnished 2­ andersonNDrentals.com  
3 bdrm home, basement, garage,  
Office Help Needed by TC Apts.  fenced yard. Near Clay schools,  1-bdrm apt. Quiet historic neighbor­ 
$7/hr. Call272-4135.  owner financing & home improve- hood. 1 mi. to ND. $575/mo. Call  
ment allowance. Includes 1 year  283-0325  
Enjoy babies&toddlers? 1st  home warranty. Call574-250-8552.  
Unitarian Church needs a nursery  
 Available: ND-MSU weekend, nice  
caregiver on Sundays from 10:15­ Excellent condition 1993 Nissan  2-br apt. 5 mins from ND. Call JD  
noon. $10/hr. Must have refer- Pathfinder,4x4, red. Price nego­ 269-782-5181 or  
ences. Close to ND. Call Mary Beth  liable. 271-8829.  574-208-1038.  
288-9167.  
Oakhill condo. 4bd,3bth,fin.basemt.  Bed & Blast ND games. 3 blocks  
Enjoy babies& toddlers? 1st  ND 5 min. walk. Chris 574-210­ from campus. Free parking. 289­ 
Unitarian Church needs a nursery  4485.  3397  
caregiver on Sundays from 10:15­ 
noon. $10/hr. Must have refer­ 1 bdrm condo near ND. All appli- Furnished room w/everything  
ences. Close to ND. Call Mary Beth  ances.$69,000. Call Kim Kollar 574­ except food. 3 blocks to ND. $450.  
288-9167.  280-8160.  289-3397  

Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for ND  Need USC tickets. Can trade 2  Spring Break 2006.  
game weekends. 7732182203  Tenn tix or buy. Call Bill @856-968­ Travel with STS, America s #1  
4565/856-404-1970  Student Tour Operator to Jamaica,  
TICKETS  Wanted: 2 season tix & parking  Cancun. Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida.  
pass or 2 for any home game. 574­ 
WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  276-8507  
TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570.  Now hiring on-campus reps.  
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  PERSONAL  Call for group discounts.  
289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB­ Information/Reservations 1-800­ 
SITE FOR$$:  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  
www. victorytickets.com  not go it alone. If you or someone  
 
you love needs confidential support  Don't sweat the petty things and  
BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT- or assistance, please call Sr. M.L.  don't pet the sweaty things  
BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES.  Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more  
273-3911.  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  Please recycle the Observer  
THE OBSERVER  
WANTED: 4-6 MSU GAs together,  Help needed with crossword puz- 
Dave 248-760-1767  Spring Break 2006.  zle: Three-letter word, synonym of  
Travel with STS, America s #1  "to purchase"  
BUY SELL OR TRADE ND FOOT- Student Tour Operator to Jamaica,  
BALL TICKETS. TOP$$ PAID. A.M.  Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and  Go Irish Beat Spartans  
-232-2378 P.M.-288-2726  Florida.  
Ma! The Meatloaf!  
PLEASE HELP!!! Buying season  
tix GAs only or any game GAs. Call  Now hiring on-campus reps.  One month until USC  
Mark 277-1659.  
Call for group discounts.  Drink tap water, Save again.  
Need 4 tix to any football game.  Information/Reservations 1-800­ 
Call Jack 574-674-6593.  648-4849 or www.ststravel.com  Vince Vaughn is my hero  

Thursday, September 15, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Clemens honors mother with twelfth win of season 
Bess Clemens died Wednesday morning 
Associated Press 
IIOUSTON -Hognr Clen11ms dug his spikns into tho dirt and stan~d momnntarily at the ground bnf'oro throwing his first pitr.h. lin knnw his mother would haw~ wantml him on the 
lliOUncJ. 
Tho llouston Astros acn made his sdwdulod start Wodrwsday night and allowed onn run in 6 J-:{ innings in a I 0-2 win over l.lw Florida Marlins, pitching in honor of' his mother al'ter she died oarly that morning. 
Boss Clemens dind in GIHlrgl~town, Tnxas, bocausn of complications from emphysema. Slw was 75. 
.lust after the final out, a trib­uto to Clomnns' mothnr was shown on the giant video screnn, and Astr.os players_ though Clemnns wasn't among the group _ stood in the infield and watched. The vid1w included Clnnwns talking about his moth­er at previous news eonf'erenees, his motlu~r talking about him and video of them tognther on a basnhall finld. 
The Hoeket often shared his afl'eetion for his mother, saying her lwalth was an important rae­tor as hn weighed retirement the past two ofl'seasons. llis stepfa­thnr died when he was young, and his mothnr was an inspira­
tion. 
"llis mother was a very special person in his life. I can see the two of them together, Hoger was still a little boy around her," New York Yankees manager Joe Torre said in St. Petersburg, Fla. "She's been lighting this thing for a long period of time. llopef'ully she's at peace and Hognr is also." 
Clmnens has talked about how much he hoped his mother would bn able to attend his Hall of' Fame induction. 
"I don't want to spnak to two nmpty chairs," he said after win­ning the NL Cy Young Award last ynar. 
"I know that was a big thing. lin would have loved for her to be able to make it to see that," Astros pitcher and close friend Andy Pottitte said. "I know that was a big issue for him, but she wantnd him to keep playing. So that would be something I don't think he needs to have any regrets about." 
Philadelphia 12, New York 4 
Heserve infielder Ramon Martinez hit his first career grand slam, leading the Philadnlphia Phillies to a victory over the Atlanta Braves on Wednesday night. 
The Phillies, who carne in one game behind Florida in the NL wild-eard race, have won three straight against division-leading Atlanta and five of six overall since Houston swept a three-game series in Philadelphia last week. 
Atlanta's Andruw Jones hit 50th homer, becoming the first major leaguer to reach that mark since Alex Hodriguez (57) and Jim Thome (52) in 2002. Jones' homer, the 300th of his career, was solo shot into the seeond deck in left field was olf Geoll' Geary in the eighth inning. The 28-year-old became the 12th player in m<~jor league his· tory to hit 300 homers before his 30lh birthday. 
Cory Lidle pitched five effec­tive innings and Jimmy Hollins had three hits, extending his career-best hitting streak to 20 games. Jason Michaels homered and drove in three runs and David Bell also had throe hits for Philadelphia. 
Lidle (11-Hl) allowed three runs and seven hits to win his second straight start since com­ing ofl' the disabled list. 
Consecutive singles by Bell and Mike Lieberthalloaded the bases with one out in the third inning against Horacio Ramirez (11-9). Martinez followed with a liner into the left-field seats for his first homer this season, giving the Phillies a 7-0 lead. 


Washington 6, New York 3 
Preston Wilson and Vinny Castilla hit consecutive homers in the fifth inning, leading the Washington Nationals over the New York Mets Wednesday night. 


Castilla and Nick Johnson each drove in two runs and Wilson scored twice for the Nationals, who entered four games behind Florida in the NL wild-card racn. Washington has won the first two games of a six-game road trip after losing five of six. 
Esteban Loaiza (11-10) allowed three runs and seven hits in seven innings. Gary Majewski pitched the eighth and Chad Cordero finished for his second save in two nights and 46th of the season. 
Carlos Beltran had three hits and two HBis l'or the Mets, who lost for the 14th time in 17 games. Kris Benson fell to 0-4 in his last five starts after allowing five runs and eight hits in five innings. 
Benson (9-8) retired the first two batters in the fifth _ induct­ing a called third strike on Jose Guillen that sparked an equip­ment-tossing tirade from the volatile outfielder. But Wilson hit his 23rd homer to snap u 3-all tie and Castilla drove the next pitch over the 41 0-foot sign in center for his 12th. 

wauna uo to the [ffiiiUlrnffi Game~ SUB TICKET LO ERY 12pm-5pm @LE EN Thursdav PI b 
r1 The ticket lottery is open only to Notre Dame students -undergrad and graduate. By entering the lottery, you are entering for the chance to purchase two (2) tickets to the Notre Dame vs. Purdue game on Saturday, Oct. 1st in West Layfayette, IN for full face-value. Entry to the lottery is limited to 12pm-5pm on Thursday, Sept. 15th at Legends. Students are allowed to bring six (6) IDs per student. 
At the conclusion of the lottery winning numbers will be chosen and posted in the Sept. 19th edition of the "Observer" and outside the SUB Office (201 LaFortune) by Bam on Sept. 16th. Those winning ticket holders can go to the LaFortune Box Office and purchase two (2) tickets at full face-value beginning on Sept. 19th. The window to purchase these tickets lasts until 9pm on Sept. 26th. After this point, the remaining tickets will be for sale on a first-come, first-served basis 
SUB provides this service for the Notre Dame student body and has no responsibility for negligence to adhere to the above policy. 



r--------------------------------------------------­
page 18 Thursday, September 15, 2005 
The Observer+ SPORTS 



All eyes on rookie Crosby as season begins in Pittsburgh 
NHL 
First-overall pick in NHL draft casting Lemieux-like shadow 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH John LeClair took a break and watched whenever he wasn't in a drill. So did Mark Recchi. Mario Lemieux, not accus­tomed to being only the second­most visible player during a Pittsburgh Penguins practice, took an extra peek or two him­self. 
All eyes were on prospect nonpareil Sidney Crosby at the Penguins' first training camp practice Wednesday, including those of his much older and more accomplished teammates. 
For good reason, too. If the Penguins are transform them­selves from the NHL's worst team in 2003-04 into a Stanley Cup contender. they under­stand that Crosby must play a major role. 
That's why Lemieux, Recchi and LeClair, with a combined 1,521 goals among them, are excited about playing alongside an 18-year-old who has yet to play in a NHL game or score a goal. 
LeClair, 36, signed with the Penguins last month because he wants to win the Cup before he retires, and thinks getting Crosby greatly increases their chances of doing so. 
"I think he can be a super­star," said LeClair, who's sched­uled to skate on a line with Recchi and Crosby during a training camp game Thursday. "Everybody is watching him, but he handles it so well. It's tough when everyone is watch­ing you on every shift ... but he's very mature for his age." 
Crosby was "a little nervous" when he stepped onto the Mellon Arena ice, but quickly became involved in the skating and shooting drills. He wasn't wearing his already recogniza­ble No. 87--he's No. 12 in this camp, just as Lemieux is No. 16 rather than No. 66 --but he did wear a protective visor. 
He plans to keep wearing it during practices and games, saying Red Wings captain Steve Yzerman's serious eye injury during the 2004 playoffs con­vinced him he should wear it. 
There were numerous No. 87 jerseys in the stands among the 1,000 to 1,500 spectators, an exceptional turnout for a morn­ing workout that the fans knew would not contain any scrim­maging. That didn't surprise Pat Brisson, Crosby's Los Angeles-based agent who has been in town for a week. 
Brisson said more than 16,000 Crosby jerseys have been sold by Reebok, or nearly twice as many as those for most stars in an entire season. One reason is there's already a huge Crosby fan base in his native Canada, where Brisson estimates he might be the country's most popular athlete. 
Before Crosby arrived for camp, he signed five major endorsement deals in Canada and two in the United States, Reebok and Gatorade. He's also pictured in this month's Vanity Fair magazine_, and will be fea­tured in the November issue of GQ magazine. 
"I probably get 15 to 20 calls a day about him," Brisson said. "But I won't be bothering him every two hours about some­thing.... It's not his priority now that camp has started. It's important he's allowed to be an 18-year-old kid." 


2005-06 SEASON NOTRE OAME FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE PRESENTS 

A_elors Frotn The London Stage 
TWELFTII NIGHT 
by William Shakespeare 


Wednesday, September 14 Thursday, September 15 • Friday, September 16 All performaoces at 7:3.0 p.m. Washington Hall 
General Public $18 ·Faculty/Staff/Senior Citizens $16 • Students $12 
Tickets available at the DeBartolo Perform1ng Arts Center ticket office. MasterCard and Visa ardors accepted. Call 574·631-2800 or purchase tickets online at http://perlormingarts.nd.edu/. 
The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Senes. 
r;t;)V<'~IVJ::kSirYOf' ~DEBARTOlO 
wNorRE DAME V""<l'M""""""CE""' 


Frida_y, Sept. 16 @7:30pm vs. DePaul 
GowGAMt: 
-FIRST 100 1"AN5 WILL Rt:cr:M:: A 
GOLD GAMesT-SHIRT 
FRet: NrsnNG DoLL TO 
fiRST 500 fANS 
Sunda_y, Sept. 18@ 1:00pm vs. Michigan 
FIRST 2.)0 FANS WILL RECEIVE: A NOTRE DAME ScHEDULE GLASs 
FREE: CHIU TO E:AR.LY ARRIVING FANS 
;.-~ ,,-,-,,,-,,,,·.w.-.~~•Y•w•~--.--,-~_.......,_,....,._."'"'''·''."'-''"''-"''"-~1 
~ i 
' 
I FreeAdmission I 
I : 
1 ForALL ; IND, SMC, and HCCi ! Students I 
i I 
! i 
i 

Thursday, September 15, 2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
' 







resents 

,, 
ere's orne in 



ou 
ar ie'' 

I 

-1 
l
Dillon Pep Rally 
I 
. . =-I

Toni8l1t 7:30pn1 
l 
I 


Sotltl1 Q11ad 
1 
1
-
Thursday, September 15, 2005 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
NASCAR 

Gordon's woes continue, Loon1is leaves post with crew 
Failing to qualify for championship series, driver looks to 2006 
Associated Press 

CHARLOTTE, N.C.-Robbie Loomis stepped down as Jeff Gordon's crew chief Wednesday, four days after the team failed to make NASCAR's Chase for the championship. 
Dale Earnhardt Jr. also will finish the season with a differ­ent crew chief, after the team announced that Tony Eury Jr. will return to call his cousin's remaining races. 
Loomis will finish the season as consultant for Hendrick Motorsports while Gordon's teammate, Jimmie Johnson, races for the Nextel Cup title. Loomis will join Petty Enterprises next season as vice president of race operations, where he will run the day-to­day operations for Jeff Green and Kyle Petty's teams. 
Steve Letarte, who has been with Gordon's team for three of his NASCAR titles, will take over for Loomis as crew chief. 
''I'm sad to see Robbie leavo," said Gordon. "We made a great team and had more wins ahead of us, but the Pettys presented him with a fantastic opportuni­ty. For him, it was time for a change and I'm happy he's found the right fit." 
Loomis joined Gordon's team in 2000, and the duo won Gordon's fourth Cup title the next season. Although Gordon has won three races this sea­son, he hit a slump this summer and failed to qualify for NASCAR's 10-race title hunt. 
By missing out, Gordon is assured his worst points finish since his rookie season, when he was 14th. 
Letarte will call his first race Sunday at New Hampshire International Speedway. He has worked under crew chiefs Ray Evernham, Brian Whitesell and Loomis in roles ranging from tire specialist, mechanic and car chief. 
''I've worke-d with Steve for more than 10 years and we already communicate extremely well, both on and off the track," Gordon said. "The team has a ton of confidence in his abilities, so we're looking forward to the last 10 races of 2005 and get­ting an early jump on next year." 
Earnhardt Jr. also failed to make the Chase; he and crew chief Eury Jr. will finish the sea­son together to get a head start on 2006. 
"This gives them a chance to start working on their chem­istry," Richie Gilmore, vice pres­ident of Dale Earnhardt Ine., told The Associated Press. 
Eury Jr., Earnhardt's cousin, had worked on his ear from the beginning of Earnhardt's NASCAR career until last sea-


FRIDAY 9/16·10 PM LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
son. But Earnhardt and team­mate Michael Waltrip had their erews swapped last year because the two cousins weren't getting along; Earnhardt said Wednesday that both have since had an attitude adjustment. 
The Gordon-Loomis split has been in the works for some time, with both sides indicating recently it was coming. 
It's a natural move for Loomis to head back to Petty Enterprises, where he spent 11 seasons before joining Gordon's team. 
"Robbie has been a part of our family for a long time, and we're happy to have him eome home," Petty said. 
Loomis has been eager to step back from the day-to-day grind of being a crew chief. It's part of a reorganization of priorities he's taken since his mother bat­tled a life-threatening illness last year, and after a Hendrick plane crashed last October, killing 10 people. 
His new job at Petty will not be as demanding as a erew chief's role. 
"Hendrick Motorsports opened my eyes to a whole dif­ferent level of this industry. The experience has allowed me to see things from a new perspec­tive and learn important lessons about business and life," he said. "I was with the Petty fami­ly for 11 years before being blessed to work with Jeff and the No. 24 team. 

SATURDAY 9/17•9 PM FIELDHOUSE MALL 


----------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
AROUND THE NATION 
Thursday, September 15, 2005 
-
College Football Associated Press Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Southern California (56)  1-0  1,592  
2  Texas (8)  2-0  1,538  
3  LSU  1-0  1,404  
4  VIrginia Tech  2-0  1,345  
5  Tennessee  1-0  1,297  
6  Florida  2-0  1,242  
7  Georgia  2-0  1,181  
8  Florida State  2-0  1,138  
9  Ohio State  1-1  1,100  
10  NOTRE DAME  2-0  1,036  
11  Louisville  1-0  941  
12  Purdue  1-0  837  
13  Miami  0-1  754  
14  Michigan  1-1  740  
15  California  2-0  634  
16  Georgia Tech  2-0  575  
17  Boston College  2-0  483  
18  Arizona Slate  1-1  373  
19  Texas Tech  1-0  324  
• 20  Clemson  2-0  316  
21  Oklahoma  1-1  267  
22  Iowa  1-1  252  
23  Fresno State  1-0  225  
24  Iowa State  2-0  223  
25  VIrginia  1-0  205  

College Football USA Today Top 25 
IeaTil record points 
1 Southern California (59) 1-0 1,547 2 Texas (3) 2-0 1,480 3 LSU 1-0 1,336 4 Tennessee 1-0 1,311 4 Virginia Tech 2-0 1,311 6 Georgia 2-0 1,202 7 Florida 2-0 1,173 6 Florida State 2-0 1,120 9 Ohio State 1-1 905 10 Louisville 1-0 872 11 . Purdue 1-0 849 12 NOTRE DAME 2-0 781 13 Miami 0-1 757 14 Michigan 1-1 696 15 California 2-0 601 16 Boston College 2-0 527 17 Oklahoma 1-1 508 18 Georgia Tech 2-0 502 19 Texas Tech 1-0 425 20 VIrginia 0-1 311 21 Iowa 1-1 286 22 Arizona State 1-1 285 23 Clemson 2-0 223 24 Alabama 2-0 213 25 Fresno State 1-0 171 
Women's Soccer MIAA Conference Standings 
tmun eonf. overall Calvin 2-0-0 3-1-1 Hope 2-0-0 3-1-0 Alma 2-1-0 3·1·1 Olivet 2-1-0 2-3·0 Kalamazoo 1-1·0 2-2-1 SAINT MARY'S 1-1-0 2-2-0 Albion 0-1-0 0-3-0 Tri-State 0-2-0 2-3-0 Adrian 0-3-0 0-5-0 



around the dial 
MLB 
White Sox at Royals 1:10 p.m., WGN Braves at Phillies 6:05p.m., TBS Cardinals at Cubs 7:05p.m., WGN 
GoLF 
84 Lumber Classic 4 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Utah at TCU 6:30 p.m., ESPN 

CoMrtu:o FROM T1-u ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 21 
NFL 


AP 

Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Donovan McNabb answers questions from the media Wednesday. McNabb did not practice Wednesday because of a bruised chest but said he will play in the Eagles' home opener Sunday. 
McNabb questionable for hotne opener 
Associated Press 
PIIILAI>ELPIIIA-Don­ovan McNabb threw four touchdowns on a broken ankle. lie won't let a chest injury keep him on the bench. 
McNabb didn't practice Wednesday because of a bruisnd chest, but the live­time Pro Bowl quarterback said he'll play in Philadelphia's home opener against San Francisco on Sunday. 
"Nothing will stop me from being on that field," said McNabb, who was injured in the first quarter in the Eaglfls' 14-10 season­opening loss at Atlanta on 
IN BRIEF 
Monday night. 

lf McNabb can't play­he's listed as questionable. -longtime backup Koy Detmer isn't a Jock to get the start. Detmer shared reps with third-string quar­terback Mike McMahon in practice, and coach Andy Reid wouldn't select a potential starter. 
"We'll see as the week goes on," Heid said. ''I'll evaluate it and see what we want to do with it. I know both do a nice job." 
Detmer has started eight games in his nine seasons with the Eagles. lie led Philadelphia to a 38-17 victory in San Francisco in a Monday night game 
three years ago, one week after McNabb broke his ankle. Detmnr threw for 227 yards and two touch­downs against the 49ers before injuring his elbow and missing the rest of' the season. 
McMahon started seven games in four seasons with Detroit before signing with the Eagles in the ollseason. l-Ie isn't as familiar with Philadelphia's vnrsion of thn West Coast oiTense, but out­performed Detmer in tlw preseason. 
"We'm going to take tho reps the way they want us to and see how it shakes out," said Detmer. who probably has maintained 
his status as thn b<u:kup because he's the holder for Pro Bowl kicker David Akers. 
Detmer expects to be on the sidelirw watching McNabb. 
"lin's a warrior," Detnwr said. "We've snnn him play through all kinds of things, broken ankles, everything. If he can walk. he can go. lie will be out there." 
McMahon said he's com­fortable with the J•:aglns' complex oll'lmsn. 
"It's nothing too diflkult," he said. "You just havn to prepare and go out and help the olTnnsn rnovn tlw ball. Don't do anything too fancy and move the chains." 
Former Indiana prep star 
transfers to IUPUI 
INDIANAPOLIS -Jeremy Holland, a 6-foot-8 Indiana high school All-Star who signed a basketball letter of intent with Bowling Green, has trans­ferred to IUPUI. 
Tho Austin High School graduate left Bowling Greon before the start of tho fall sornester and will have four years of eligibility with IUPUI, begin­ning in 2006-07, the university said Wednesday. 
"Jeremy is an outstanding oll'ensive player," IUPUI coaeh Hon Ilunter said. "lie's got grnat range for a kid that's a legit 6-foot-8.... lle'll become a good rebounder and defender at this level as he matures both physically and mentally." 
llolland averaged 20.8 points and 
9.7 rebounds a game, leading Austin to a 20-6 record and a se<:tional tour­ney championship last season. He was a high honorable mention All-State selection by The Associated Press and played in the annual Indiana All-Star series against Kentucky in June. 

IUPUI also announced freshman for­ward Hyan Pride, a 6-9 walk-on, has left the team. 
Fan sends Ohio State tight
end hate mail after loss 
COLUMBUS, Ohio-Ohio State tight end Hyan Ilamby has received a cou­ple of hate letters since dropping a sure touchdown pass during the Buckeyes' loss to Texas last week. 
Cutting ovnr the middle into the end zone, llamby was open wlum Justin Zwick's pass bounced on· his chest and into tho air. lie had a second chancn to grab it but was slammed by a defender just as tho ball touched his hands. 
A touchdown would have given Ohio State a 10-point lead in the third quarter. The Buckeyes ended up set­tling for a field goal and eventually lost 25-22 to Texas. 
"I can't think about it too much beeausn we still have a lot of football to play," he said as the ninth-ranked Buckeyes prepared for Saturday's game with San Diego State. ''I'm not going to lin. I think about it sonw times. But you've just got to move on." 
Rams' executive faces team discipline for phone threat 
ST. LOUIS-An executive with thn St. Louis Hams will be reprimandod for leaving a threatening phone nws­sago on the voice mail of a St. Louis Post-Dispatch columnist. 
The Hams told the Post-Dispatch that team executive Sarnir Suleiman litces discipline, but dndirwd to say what it would be. A eall to tlw Hams on Wednesday was not n~turned. 
"It's shocking that he would leave a message like that," Hams ptnsident John Shaw told thn Post-I>ispatl'.h. "It's the typo of bnhavior that wn don't con­done at any level. lin will he rnpri­manded, and it will be handled inter­nally." 
On Aug. 28, sports columnist Bernio Miklasz wrote that IH~ was dis­turbed by "infighting and polities" within the Hams organization. and said executivos owe any head coach their support. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 15, 2005 
NBA 
Hornets homeless in New Orleans after storm 
Arena not seriously damaged, but city not ready for basketball 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS -Finding a temporary home for the New Orleans Hornets is ono of the NBA's last major pinees of unfinished business as the opening of training eamps draws near. 
After a busier-than-aw~rage summer, the past couple of weeks have been rPiativ<~ly ealm. Among the few free agents still unsigned are Chicago's Eddy Curry and Minnesota's LatrBII Sprewell, and among those looking to quell rumors is Boston boss Danny Ainge, who insists he is not trading Paul Pierce. 
"He'll be with us when train­ing camp opens," Aingn said. 
But until that annual rite of autumn returns Oct. 4, this time including the reunion of Phil Jackson and Kobe Bryant in Los Angeles, the most press­ing concern for the NBA is finding a place for the llornets to spend the upcoming season. 
The New Orleans Arena 

escaped serious damage from Hurricane Katrina, but the Hornets were told it could take up to six months before the city's ready to accommodate their return. League officials spent Wednesday touring facil­ities in Baton Rouge, La., after checking out Oklahoma City last week, and NBA spokesman Tim Frank said a decision on the Hornets' tem­porary home is expected toward the end of next week. 
After that, the focus will move to the individuals ­rather than teams -who spent the summer changing addresses. 
Michael Finley will be joining the defending champion San Antonio Spurs, Larry Brown will take over as coach of the New York Knicks, Ron Artest will be welcomed back to the lndiana Pacers and Shaquille O'Neal will get a firsthand look at the changes made to two­fifths of Miami's starting line­up. 
Sprewell, after turning down a three-year, $21 million extension last season from Minnesota, is still looking to find a team able to pay him a salary above $5 million. His agent, Robert Gist, said he is trying to facilitate a sign-and­trade deal that would bring the Timberwolves a small for­ward in return. 
"This is not about anyone doing Latrell a favor, it's about the Timberwolves finding a way to get a player they need," Gist said. 
Wolves vice president Kevin McHale did not immediately return a call seeking comment. 
Curry, a restricted free agent whose future has been clouded by heart problems, has received a one-year qualifying offer from the Bulls which expires Oct. 1. Chicago has the right to match any offer the 22-year-old receives for the upcoming season, but the four­year veteran would become an unrestricted free agent next summer if he accepts the qual­ifying offer. 
There were rumors last week that the Celtics and Denver Nuggets had discussed a swap of Pierce for Andre Miller and Nene, but Ainge said the report was unfound­ed. 
..·, have no plans to trade Paul Pieree." Ainge said in ·a telephone interview. 
Speculation surrounding Pierce's future comes after a summer in which nearly all of last season's 16 playoff teams made significant moves aimed at improving in the short term. 
"I think (the summer) has been protracted, but I don't think it's been all that much different from other summers that have had extensive player movement," said Spurs gener­al manager H.C. Buford. 
The Spurs bolstered their bench by adding veteran guard Nick Van Exel and Argentine center Fabricio Oberto, an Olympic teammate of Manu Ginobili's. But their biggest eoup of the offseason was beating out the Suns, Heat and Pistons for Finley. 
Dallas waived the Hl-year veteran under a one-time amnesty provision under the new six-year collective bar­gaining agreement agreed to in July. The move will bring Maverieks owner Mark Cuban approximately $90 million in 
cash savings over the next three years. 
"The template for suecess in the NBA changed from the Portland model of 1999-2000, wben I got to the league, to the Detroit, San Antonio, Miami model," Cuban wrot<~ earlier this summer in his Web log. "Although we have succeeded on the court to the point of live straight 50-plus win seasons, we certainly didn't do it 'the best way.' We did it the most expensive way. It cost us rtexi­bility and created lots of bad habits. That was my mistake, and it ended up costing us Mike (Finley)." 
The Detroit Pistons, eorning off their Game 7 loss to San Antonio in the NBA Finals, hired Flip Saunders to replaen Brown and added Dale Davis to an established veteran front line. 
Miami lost starters Eddin Jones and Damon Jones but added Antoine Walker, Jason Williams and James Posey. Heat coach Stan Van Gundy will open camp with some uncertainty surrounding him, a slow start to the regular sea­son likely to speed up specula­tion over Pat Riley's possible return to the sidelines. 


.,.,.-ew ant£view presents 
T'orn Cruise Bo's cfassic 
tfiurstfay 9/15 rnitfnigfit 
... right after 

THE BEST OFACOUSJTCAFE 
no cover 

na/smc/ficc it£req. EGENDS
{egendS.ntf.edu F NOTRE DAME 
Thursday, September 15, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 


Albion 
continued from page 28 
42 rninut!~S in, just prior to half­time. 
Midfielder Carolyn Logan brought the ball up the middle and sent a quick pass to attaek­!~r Lauren Hinton up tho middle. Tlw pass split the Albion dnti~nse, leaving Hinton to break wid!l opon through the center with thn goalin being the only remaining linn of proteetion. 
Hinton took her time but pla!'.nd a well-ainwd shot along tlw ground to thll left side, blow­ing past the outstrntched fingers of Albion's Deanna DeHoo for a 1-0 Bnll1~s lead. 
Belles coach Caryn Mackenzie was ecstatic over her team's overall play and the offensive pressure. 
"It was absolutely huge for us," Mackenzie said. "The last three games we haven't been able to get the ball in the back of thfl net. We are very focused on our home lield, it feels good." 
Hinton tallied the first Belles goal in 312 minutes of play, but sho had no intontion of leaving Albion with the hopo of victory. Only six and a half minutes after her last goal -barely threo minutes into the second hal(­she found the baek of the net once again, this time with a little help from her sistor. 
Ashley Hinton eontrolled the ball in the middle above the goalkeeper's box before dishing off a pass to Lauren Ilinton deep on the left side. Lauren shot low and hard into DeHoo's stomach. 
DeRoo eould not control the ball. however, and Lauren was right baek on the attaek, push­ing the ball past the prone goal­tender and firing a shot into the wide open net. 
"Sinee we have ehanged our whole formation of players, I think it worked really well for us," Hinton said of several play­ers shifting positions. "Obviously we got two goals out of it. [The goals] were really exeiting." 
The Belles eontrolled the game as Albion eould never muster a sustained attack in the Saint Mary's zone. Nearly every time the Britons pushed the ball past mid-field, they were met with a responsive Saint Mary's midfield and defense. 

"I felt like it was a great team effort," Maekenzie said. "I just thought that the energy was great, that the e!Tort was gn~at. I am just happy for my kids today, and I'm just really proud of their eiTort and the outcome. It is just a reward for their hard work today." 
The Belles controlled the ball the entire game, moving the ball around Albion defenders and all over the field with relative ease. 
Once down in the Britons' rod zone, success was not limited to the two scores. Midway through the first half, Ashley Hinton dribbled through throe differnnt Albion defenders and found an opening towards the n1~t. Slw took a swift, low shot but was denied by a spectaeular save from the Briton knepnr. 
Saint Mary's out shot thn Britons as well, gunning 13 shots on goal to the Britons'. seven. Goalie Laura lleline madn several stops in front of the net, finishing the game with seven savns. 
The B1~1les would like til usn the win to begin a win strnak and turn the tide on a tough early snason. 
"Wn have bonn losing the past couple of games," Ilinton said. "So it is really nxr.iting to win on your home turf." 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 



FAITHPOINT 

• Thursday, September 15, 2005 
-LIVE IT!! 



Campus Ministry would like to thank Margaret Morgan for never doing her homework (at least we assume she never does her homework) because otherwise she could not have possibly been such an integral part of so many CM activities. Margaret is from Baton Rouge, LA and her day planner basically looks like a brochure for Campus Ministry. Her commitment to her faith life and service to others can be seen easily by any observer. This year Margaret is involved in the running ofFour:7 Catholic Fellowship, Emmaus, and Notre Dame Encounter# 87 in addition to being an RAin Lewis Hall. Margaret has also been invofved in ND Vision, the Catechist Program, and Freshman Peer Leaders and co-founded the Confinnation Retreat program for local parishes. In her other life as astudent, Margaret is aTheology and Irish Studies double major. Margaret, thank you so much for sharing your time, talents and example with so many students on campus. 
Let us know who out there is making a diHeren~e! 
. ~ 
Send nominations to Brian Vassel at bvassel@nd.edu 
Catholi~ (14A .
Why do (;atholi~s genoile~i? 
I didn't grow up Catholic. The first time I ever attended a Catholic Mass with some high school friends, I still remember my embarrassment when 1) I had no idea what the bowls of water by door were all about (we'll save that for another edition), and 2) as I was gawking about at the interior of the church, I nearly tripped over my friend and her dad as they genuflected in the aisle before entering the pew. Thus, my first exposure to the Catholic practice of 
genuflection! 


So what is it, why do we do it, and where is it appropriate to do so? The word genuflect comes from the Latin genu ("knee") and fleetere (''to bend"). Genuflection, more than any mere habitual action, is first and f~remost an act of worship directed towards the Real Presence of Jesus Christ in the Eucharist, whether reserved in the tabernacle or exposed in a monstrance (as at Eucharistic Adoration.) Its origins come from medieval times (if not earlier), when folks would go down on one knee to show honor and respect towards a king. The Church modified this custom for her own use, believing that if one is willing to genuflect towards an earthly king, then how much more should one show honor, esteem. and love towards the King of Kings, Jesus Christ, physically present in the Blessed Sacrament. 
As for practicality, one should only genuflect on the right knee towards the tabernacle or monstrance, and then only when the Blessed Sacrament is present (as indicated by the lit red sanctuary light next to the tabernacle). Genuflection is reserved for Jesus Christ present in the Eucharist, so wherever that might be, that's the direction in which you genuflect. Nonnally, one would genuflect upon entering the church or chapel, upon leaving your place, and anytime you pass in front of the tabernacle for any reason. Abow is traditionally used to honor the altar, as it represents the place of sacrifice and the table of the Last Supper. If the tabernacle and altar are both in the sanctuary of the church (as at the Basilica), a genuflection towards the tabernacle is all that is required. If they are separated (as in some hall chapels), one genuflects towards the tabernacle and then bows towards the altar. The right knee should always be used (unless medical reasons would make it impossible); genuflecting on the left knee, interestingly, is the traditional action when greeting the pope or a bishop, usually accompanied by a kiss of his fishennan's ring. 
Senq your questions to Brett Perkins 4t Perkins.26@nd.edu! 
Phone 



Twenty-fifth Sunday in Ordinary Time
l-7800 
Web 

1st 2nd Gospel
campusministry.nd.edu 
Main Office 

Isaiah Philippians Matthew 
319CoMo 

55:6-9 1:20c-24,27a 20:1-16a
Retreats Office 
ll4CoMo
Campus Ministry 

WAt~ts 1Ap7 
TOniGIIT 9/1 5 
Irons Sharpens Iron Ministry (lSI) 329 Co-Mo IOPM 
JATURDAY9/17 
Vigil Mass -HMilica 30 minutes after game 
Vigil Mass -Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 
sunDAY9/18 
Mass -Basilica 8:00AM IO:OOAM 11:45AM 
monday 9/19
..,
EMMAUS 
-1 
KICKOF:Ji' Small Communities of Faith Sharing & Scripture Study 6:00-7:30PM Co-Mo Lounge 
Tue1day 9/10 

1111:1 
Catholic. Fellowship. Here. 
Cavanaugh Hall Chapel 8:30-IO:OOPM Topic: "'fhe Spirituality of the Catholic Pro-Life Movement" with Father J. Steele, CSC 
1Uedne1day 9/I I 
Is Religious life in our future? Vocation Conversation for Women with Sister Sue Bruno, OSF 7:00-S:OOPM 114 Co-Mo 
Theology on Tap Topic: "Can Catholics Drive Bontleys?: Wealth & the Christian Life" 

---------------------. 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, September 15, 2005 
Dame took a different approach than usual. Rather than hooting and hollering, they just warmed up. 
Now, when there's no excite­ment, the Irish will know what to do. They'll scream. jump up and down, lay out for digs. They are the creators, and it's up to them to keep the momentum going. 
They have cracked the top 10 for the first time since 1995, and they plan to keep climbing to stir up some more rankings. 
After being told all last week they could compete with the creme de la creme, they finally are the creme. 

Contact Tom Dorwart at Ashley Tarutis, left, and Danielle Herndon await the serve tdorwart@nd.edu during the 3-2 Irish wil1 over Arizona State Sept. 4. 



Irish 
continued from page 28 
you have the respect of the other teams. I just think that we competed, and the confidence that we gained by playing steady against really good teams is one of the best things about last weekend." 
Along with the high ranking, the Irish have another reward -a place in the Notre Dame record books. 
The Irish became the second­highest ranked Notre Dame vol­leyball team ever behind the 1995 team which reached No. 
7. The 11-spot ascension was the largest by any school in AVCA poll history. No team in the 24-year span of the poll had 
risen more than 10 slots previ­ously, which  "Our coaches had been telling us all  same award in The Inn at Saint Mary's Shamrock  
Brigham Young  week we could play  Invitational.  
did in 1996. The Irish wins  with these teams. ''  On Monday, the Irish got a well­ 
against  the  earned break but  
Trojans and the  Ashley Tarutis  were back to work  
Gators marked  Irish setter  . Tuesday, preparing  

the first time in program history Notre Dame defeated a pair of top-1 0 teams in the same week­end. 
"Our coaches had been telling us all week that we could play with these teams, and we could beat these teams," Tarutis said. 
On Friday, the Irish didn't start out well against the Trojans. They dropped the first game. Brown thought her team might have been trying too hard. After a week of prepara­tion for what was one of the strongest regular-season tour­naments in the nation, the Irish came out flat. 
USC took it to them. The experienced Trojans -winners of two of the past three national titles -looked like the power­house they always are. 
The Rally at the Alamodome, the site of this year's volleyball Final Four, was supposed to have a Final Four atmosphere. 
Instead, it was quiet. Not many fans came. And the Irish looked lethargic. 
"Very, very different," Brown said of the atmosphere. "We talked about it a little bit. It was the Alamodome, so it was a really big, huge venue, and there weren't a lot of people." 
Then, the Irish showed why they are now a top-Hl squad. When there wasn't excitement or energy, they created it them­selves. 
"So any energy or momentum had to be created by us," Brown said. "Then throughout the rest of the weekend we won nine in a row. The fact that even if we get down by 3 or 4 points, we find a way to fight back and get the points back. At the end of the game, I think we finished really strong in terms of execut­ing and keeping composure." 
From there, Notre Dame was itself again. Once again, Lauren Brewster won a tournament MVP. 
The Big East player of the week for the second week in a row, Brewster won the Dome Hally's MVP award, which was announced Sunday night. She won the 
for a weekend trip 
to College Station, Texas to take on Tulane (1-0) and LSU (8-1). The two matches were originally scheduled to take place in New Orleans' Sugar Bowl Classic, but because of Hurricane Katrina they have been moved to Tulane's tempo­rary home at Texas A&M. 
While this weekend's ren­dezvous has switched locations, the teams and the goals remain the same, though there is an added sentiment for both the Green Wave and the Tigers. Players on both teams -espe­cially Tulane, whose campus was destroyed by the hurricane -are from New Orleans or the Gulf Coast and have family members missing and homes washed away. These teams have more than a win to play for. 
LSU has played several matches since the hurricane, but Tulane has yet to see the court since Aug. 26. The Gn~en Wave has had six matches can­celled. This weekend will serve as a catharsis of sorts for both Louisiana teams. 
Perhaps the biggest challenge for the Irish is to avoid getting caught up in the emotions ___: to just play. 
Before the USC match, Notre 
!'..._n_jo 

prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yrJob In the ._r east, strategically chosen to 1natch your career goals. Apply by Nova~nber 4, 2005. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of May, 2006) an NO degree? No east-Asia experience? For more information, contact Mrs. Nancy O'Connor(nmee@nd.edu) 
.­
/1:\o 

Thursday, Seprember 15, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 


Unveiled 
continued from page 28 

Notre Damn defense shut down tlw high-llying Miehigan oiTnnsn to t.lw turw of' only 10 total points allowed -and sil1~111:e a Big !louse crowd of over 1 I 0,000 in the process -Weis pointed to Wooden as the most notable dPf'ensivl' playl'r. 
"The one 
bounds just inches beforfl the goal line, setting the scene for a pivotal Wolvflrine turnover two plays later. wasn't sure he'd even be on the field -let alone. chasing down Wolverine rnceivers to pn~serve an upset bid -just a few months ago. 
Despite missing spring prac­tice, Wooden's work ethic dur­ing training camp provided him with the key that ultimatn­ly unlocknd the door to the start­
guy ing cornerback
"/Wooden/

who I havn t.o sin­job opposite vet­gil' oul. abovn all challenged for that eran Mike LIH~ otlwr playnrs starting spot from Hil:hardson and 
was Ambrose the chance to
the very first day."

Woodnn for thosn make game­couple of' touch­changing plays down-saving Bill lewis like those in Ann tackll~s." Wnis Irish assistant coach Arbor. 
said at his Sunday 
pn~ss conf'nrnnc1~. 
"lie made tlw 11110 on the 1­yard linn which ended up turn­ing into no points, and he also made tlw one on the 50-yard lirw. whieh might have been a touchdown. as well." 
Al'tnr all the talk this fall about the importance of every player on dd1msn !lying to the ball, for Wooden, the effort was sncond nature 
"You've just got to pursue, you nnvnr know what can hap­plm," Woodnn said. "Everyone thought they were going to score. You've just got to run to thn ball. You never know what play will dfldde a game." 
But the player that caught up to and knocked Michigan rnceivnr Jason Avant out of 
"lie was out 
there going through some of' our individual drills I in spring practice I. but he really had no work in our def'ensivp, package," Irish dp,fensive backs coach Bill Lewis said. "But when he came back and we started training camp, he, from the very first minute, was very focused on what he was doing, and he challenged for that starting spot from the very first day. He let everybody see that this guy was coming to work." 
But as much as his own hard work has contributed to both his and the defensive unit's early-season success, Wooden points to the deep coaching staff as instrumental in his quick development. 
"I've learned so mueh just from !Lewis!. specifically, but also the whole coaching starr." Wooden said. 
"Just little things -each eoaeh has some aspp,ct of knowledge that they ean give · you. like tackling or playing tho deep ball better. Someone is always there trying to make you that much better of a play­er." 
And in a position where mis­takes arc magnified, when thPy do happnn, the coaching staff's ability to help the play­m·s recognize their flaws ean make all the difference. 
"When you gp,t beat deep, Coach Lewis and [assistant defensive backs! Coach [Bill! Polian are right there to tell you exaetly what you did wrong," Wooden said. 
"ILnwisl probably wasn't watching, but he could tell you exaetly what you did at the line to get yourself in that position, that's how well he's gotten to know us." 
As far and as quickly as he has eomc over the past half­year, Wooden realizes his development has only just begun. 
"I'm surprised that I jumped in so fast, but I've got a lot to learn," Wooden said. 
"I've got a lot of ways to go, and I'm just going to keep working hard to try to do the best that I can." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

FOOTBALL 
No backing out of bet for Brady· · 




....... 
Irish coach Charlie Weis talks at his press conference after Notre Dame's 42-21 win over Pittsburgh Sept. 3. 
Squad views film of poor plays by Irish in past MSU games 
By MATT PUGLISI Associate Sports Editor 
Irish coach Charlie Weis was informed at Wednesday night's press conference that former Michigan and current Patriot quarterback Tom Brady had, in fact, come through on his agreement to wear a Notre Dame hat in honor of the 17-10 Irish victory over the Wolverines Sunday at the Big House. 
While Brady only wore the hat -backwards -for 20 sec­onds before tossing it to the ground during a Patriot press conference, Weis was anxious to see the visuals. 
"Did we get a picture of' that?" Weis said. "Is it online yet?" 
Get the picture 
+After watching both high and lowlights from previous Notre Dame-Michigan games prior to battling the Wolverines, Weis used a difl'er­ent approach for Saturday's home opener against Miehigan State. The Spartans have won four consecutive games at Notre Dame Stadium and 11 overall -the most by any Irish opponp,nt. 
"Wp, watched a 15-minutn tape yesterday that I had made from NBC broadcasts from tho last four times hero," Wnis said. "It was four games worth of' all bad. I didn't have to say too much to thnm, bneause after 15 minutes of watching that tape, pictures tell better than words. There were a number of ma­sons that Michigan State has won the last four games lu1re. It was ugly." 
Home field advantage 
+Af'ter opening the season with a pair of road games, the Irish finally return homo for the first time in 2005. Af'tnr a mediocre 3-:~ home rneord last year, Weis hopes the Irish ean return to the days when a game at Notre Dame Stadium almost always meant a vietory. 
"You need to, as a team, develop a temperament," Weis said. "I don't get into that 'This is our house' and all those commercials, but you need to develop a tmnperamnnt that you're not going to lose whnn you're playing at home. I don't think that tnmperamnnt nxists at this point until we start play­ing games. 
''I'm hoping when this is all said and dono, we have estab­lished a temperament that you're going to have to be awfully good to beat us at our place." 
Practice makes perfect 
+While all coaehns mnpha­size the important of praetice. Wnis takes it to a new level. 
"IPraeticel has a very big cor­relation to how you play," Weis said. "That's one of the things that's. different than people understand-the way this stall' eoaehns, it's very important that you takn it from tlw prae­tien field to the gamn linld. 
"I don't bnlinve that you just show up on game day and play. You know that saying, 'I In's not a practien player, he's a ganwr?' I don't belinvn that philosophically. I bnlieve that you practice hard and you prn­parn to play and practice has a dirnet corn~lation to actually playing in tlw ganw." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 




-page 26 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, September 15, 2005 

Shelly Bender, left, and Amanda David, 7, focus on the ball dur­ing Saint Mary's five-game home loss to Olivet Tuesday. 
Want to improve your Spanish or Portuguese? Come to an Information Meeting with program returnees to hear about... 

anis~ and Portuguese Lan~ua I 

Brazil Ecuador Spain Chile Mexico 


Thursday, Sept. 15, 2005 5Pffi 155 DeBartolo 


4 l"41t.'\l CAI<"j.~, t~l~· II-· "'·w..~ I r ~".;;IT. co~\ 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, and faculty and staff ride all TRANSPO buses fare-free upon showing a current, valid identification 
ca~d iss~ed by the school. . 
Pick up at 6 Locations (mclud1ng Library, Reg1na Hall and 
University Village) on campus & runs every 30 minutes. 
g
HURRICANE KATRINA 
ASSISTANCE 
Come in and knit 9" X9" squares for blankets, Then we'll assemble and ship to The American Red Cross. 
0 .G · Every Thursday is THE O.C. night at Sit &Knit. ~he season premiere is Thursday, Sept. 8th at 7pm CST. 
From 6-8:30 p.m. e~oy free latles, mochas and flavored coffees Bring your knitting or let us start you on anew one. 
129 S. Michigan St. 574/232-KNIT Downtown South Bend between Ouizno and LePeep Hours: Mon-Thu 10-7 Fri-Sat 10-6 Sun Noon-6 
SMC GOLF 

Olivet can't keep up with Belles 
with Elizabeth Kreger of Albion. board, shooting an 84, puttingBy JUSTIN BELTZ The 79 was Mattia's best round her in a tie for 1Oth. 
Sports Writer 

of the year, topping the 81 she The Belles strong performance shot in the final round of Ferris yesterday will give them a leg up 
Saint Mary's may have been State's Bulldog Invitational two on the rest of the conference as wondering what to expect from weeks ago. · the teams jockey for position itself, after two disappointing fin­"Individually I just want to play heading into the MIM champi­ishes against powerful Division I really well," Mattia said. "One of onship. competition. my goals this year is to make The champion is determined 
Its performance on Wednesday first-team all-conference, and to by the three jamborees -out­at the Thornapple do that I just have ings hosted by the individual col­Pointe Golf Club to keep improving leges, and then the two-day con­
"One ofmy goals
might have erased and score well." ference tournament. Obtaining a some of the doubt this year is to If Mattia contin­large lead, such as the seven­they may have ues to play this stroke advantage that the Belles
make first-team all 
had. well, her goal of now possess, will prove impor­
conference.,,
The Belles card­making the all­tant as the season comes to an ed a 332 compos­MIM squad could end. ite score and a Megan Mattia be realized. And The Belles will be traveling to seven-stroke victo­she could be Normal, Ill. this weekend for the
Belles golfer 
ry over rival Olivet joined by several Illinois Wesleyan Invitational, a in the Calvin other Belles. non-sanctioned event. College Invitational. Hope, Co-captain Kirsten Fantom The team returns to MIAA Albion and Kalamazoo rounded carded an 82, good enough for a action next Tuesday as it heads out the tournament's top-five. tie for third, right behind Mattia to Olivet for the second MIAA 
Megan Mattia led the way for and her fellow co-medalist outing. the Belles, as she has done all Kreger. season. She fired a 79, good Sophomore Katie O'Brien also Contact Justin Beltz at enough for co-medalist honors ended up on the final leader jbeltz@nd.edu 





CHIMES MEETING 
"Chimes," Saint Mary's College Literary Magazine, will hold an organizational meeting 
September 15, 2005 at 5 P.M. 
in the Student Lounge, Rm. 163, of the Saint Mary's College Student Center. 
If you are interested in being a member of the "Chimes" Editorial Board please attend. 
Belles 
continued from page 28 
nent. Olivet finished No. 8 in the nine-team MIAA in 2004, and the team has compiled a 2-5 record so far this year. The struggling Cougars still man­aged to beat the Belles in five games. 
"We were disappointed, but more at ourselves for not play­ing up to what we know we can do," Schroeder-Biek said of the defeat. 
Schroeder-Biek said she saw several problems in the Olivet match that need to be addressed before taking on Concordia. Poor service recep­tion has plagued the Belles all season long, and it killed the team Tuesday. Something per­haps less visibly lacking in Saint Mary's performance bothered the coach even more -"inconsistent intensity." 
"We have the ability and that's the frustrating part," Schroeder-Biek said. "The ability is there. It's just strengthening ourselves, strengthening our drive to win, and just coming out men­tally prepared to do so." 
Despite the team's recent troubles and the lack of famil­iarity with Concordia, Schroeder-Biek feels good about the Belles' chances Thursday. The coach has the team focusing solely on what it must to do secure a win. 
"I do feel confident," Schroeder-Biek said. "I believe in my player's abilities. I really strongly do. Whoever our opponent is -good, bad, ugly, whatever -I really just want us to focus on how we step onto that court." 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
www.nd.edu/-intlstud 


Thursday, September 15, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
HENRI ARNOLD

ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS JUMBLE
JOCKULAR 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
ARCTI 
j
I I ( I I 
Ci!l2005 Tribune Med1a Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
JOMAR 
j
I I [ I I 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
WH~N TH~ L..UM­

CROISSANTWORLD 
B~R.JAC.K5 FOR.M~D

MUBHEL 
A JAZ..Z.. GROUP, TH~ ~NDt=D UP WITH A­

HMM, 1lHSJ (( AT E)(A<.:n...~ -=f 10 
I ( J 
JENKINS www.Jumble.com
PM, -:JENkiNS WILL 

INPoliU"~nof'l G E fUs\1E.() j)()\N!'\ I'::I (l ETltNll 
UO[) QUAl> IN A ROBUGE J
A LH1l..E 
~HO.PPIN L1 0\R,j Now arrange the circled letters ~rAAt-~uE. 'WI-I H.€ F'A<..UL\j to form the surprise answer. as C-1-\E€:~ 1-HNI OrlJ., , 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
-=t-: LO ··..,:· F\RE.'I'IORkS 'i: 
LA:>E-R l...H..1~\ S\-H>'t\('.'1 

Print~~, rI I J"( I I J" 
I 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: NEWLY MOTIF PUNDIT EMBARKYesterday's A · 
nswer: The doctor treated the cover girl because she was -A "MODEL" PATIENT 
EUGENIA LAST 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 36 Setting for 65 Guitarist Van betting Halen
Den denizens 37 Colorful 66 Cereal box stat.

5 Tennis lesson subject language 67 Come across as CELEBRITIES HORN ON THIS I>AY: A.J. Trauth. 19; i\dtun Lamherg. 21:
41 One of the

9 "This life!" 
Callum Keith Rennie. 45; Joey Heatherton, 61Bronte sisters 
DOWN

14 lbiza, e.g. 
42 Flu symptoms Happy nirthday: These arc changing times /(Jr you. The desire to move in a
1 Great Lakes15 "Slaves of New 

new direction in at least one area of your life is very apparent. Don't sit around York" author waiting for things to happen. Recognize what you want in your life and move 
43 Analyzes swimmers 
45 "Don't look at 2 Pro golfers'

Janowitz forward toward that goal. Your numhers arc 3. 4. 7. X. 14.29 me!" circuit
16 Romance, e.g. 
46 Honor society 3 Wingdings ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get involved. Be a participant .... active and 17 Green light aggressive in going after your goals. You will get the help you need toli>llow
letter 4 "Dynasty"

20 Mag famous for through with your plans. **** 
49 Tach reading actress TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Take purl in anything that can further your career.

sex quizzes 

50 Prefix with 5 1964 hit with A course or a project that offers an opportunity to show your worth and talent 21 Major artery dimensional the lyric "C'mon should he considered. You will impress people with your versatility. ** 22 Beat in a pool and turn it on, 
GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): You may have too many choices, hut that's OK53 Profit as long as you don'ltry to do everything. Follow your heart ;md your intuition. 
wind it up, blow25 Where the 

55 Where a You can make a strong statement that will make people lake notice. ***** 
it out"

buoys are kookaburra lives CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): Money, legal and health concems should he where 
6 W.W. II fighters you put your efforts today. The more you can do to resolve such matters. the26 Dwindle 58 Some wedding 

7 Apple that may more likely you will henefil from them. *** 
28 Yearbook sect. music providers 
be green or red LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Be resourceful if you want to stay in front of the 29 "_ Coming" 59 Go to an competition. Someone from your past may have knowledge that will help you 
8 Father figures

(1969 Three extreme advance. You are likely to he deceived hy a partner. *** 9 Encroachment VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can have a good working relationship with 
Dog Night hit) 62 Actor Ron of your colleagues if you exercise patience and refrain from criticism. Compassion 10 Epitome of"Superfly"

31 _ flask (lab and understanding will he your ally in gaining the respect. admiration and trust
blackness

container) 63" small you require. *** world" LIHRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Everything should he ahoul fun. travel and doing
11 Nielsen

33 Snowbird's 33 Basset hound of 39 Hardly laughing 54 Big dos
respondent what's !lest for you. A little ronumcc, excitement ;md playtime should he scheduled.
12 Stretchy athletic 40 Squirm 56 Ethnic cuisine You will attract people who look up to you. ***** item 34 Cattle variety 44 Faint 57 Etta of old SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): This is likely to he a rather emotional day for ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE you if you've neglected the people most important in your life. It will he OK to
13 Extra room, 35 Rocky ridge 46 End of a comics 

share a longtime secret. An investment opportunity will be enticing. ** 
sentence,

perhaps 37 Klinger 59 He wrote "To SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): You will have the discipline to follow 
maybe 

Helen" and "For through with a new idea. Someone can make adifTcrence to your future. Accepting of state raised 47 Flower child Annie" a favor may not he easy for you. hut it will turn your life around. **** 38 Maximum CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.hm. 19): Money mailers can he resolved if you go 
-F+T+Iri'lmP! 18 U.S. secretary portrayer 
in the Bronx 48 Line of fashion? 60 Australian state:

weight of a ball hack to your original plan. Your ideas arc just a little ahead of the times. Rethink 
19 Historic 51 "Uh-uh!" Abbr.

in Olympic your concept and come up with a way to make it work now. *** beginning? 
soccer 52 Strand, in a way 61 Vintner's vessel AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. II!): No one will he sure of your intentions if you 23 Healing plants let your emotions gel in the way. Don't warne or let anyone change your mind. An opportunity to learn something new is apparent. *** 
-rl:::+::=+:::-i 24 Feature of a 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a PISCES (Feb. 19-March 2()): Different living arrangements, redecorating or ..... 
Friars Club 

credit card, 1-800-814-5554. even a move will be good for your morale. Someone in an authoritative position meeting 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday may lead you astray. Find out what your rights arc. *** 27 Warner 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Birthday Baby: You arc much smarter. quicker and resilient than you pottray.
rttmmm••• 30 Occupation not Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 which gives you an advantage. You have a persuasive way of dealing with others.

much seen past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 

You are hard to resist and impossible to say nolo.
nowadays? 

Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young ___.____..___.._____.__, 32 Olympic archer solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. Eugenia's Weh sites: astmad\•ice.comforfim, ('tiJ.?fllialast.comfor ('onfidnllial con.\'{lltations 



THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _______________ State _____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, September 15, 2005 
page 28 
.. 
FOOTBALL 

1Unknown' Unveiled 
Cornerback pleasant 
surprise as defense flourishes for Irish 
By MATT PUGLISI Associate Sports Editor 

During spring football last April, Irish cornerback Ambrose Wooden was forced to watch as his teammates strapped on the pads and offi­cially kicked off the Charlie Weis era of Notre Dame foot­ball. Jleld out of contact drills while recovering from injury, Wooden never had the oppor­tunity to leave an impression on Weis. 
Now, as the Irish prepare for their third game of the season against Michigan State, Wooden is already earning high praise from the coach that considered him "an unknown" five short months ago. 
In a contest that saw the 
see UNVEILED/page 25 


SMC SOCCER 
Britons blanked by Belles 
Hinton's goal keys home-opening shutout of Albion 
By KYLE CASSILY SportS Writer 
The win could not have come at a better time for the Saint Mary's soccer tf1am as the Belles kicked ofT their home opener with a 2-0 defeat of the Albion Britons Wednesday. 
After completing a four­game road trip on which the · Belles finished 1-3, the Belles pressured the Albion defense consistently throughout the first half, but Albion held strong. The breakthrough finally came 
see ALBION/page 23 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Confidence slow to show for squad 
Schroeder-Biek eager for team to play up to potential on road trip 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
Julie Schroeder-Hick wishes her players could see what she can see. 

The coach's Saint Mary's vol­leyball team has been strug­gling. Tuesday's home loss to Olivet dropped the Belles' record to 4-7, but Schroeder­Biek said she knows her team can turn things around. The coach just needs her players to start thinking the same way. 
"I believe that they can do it," Schroeder-Biek said. "I am very confident in them. I just wish they had the same confi­dence in themselves that I have in them." 
Saint Mary's will have its first opportunity to right the ship Thursday, as the team 
travels to River Forest, Ill. to take on Concordia. Concordia is off to an even slower start than the Belles are this sea­son, crawling to a record of 2­7. 
Schroeder-Biek does not know what to expect from the Cougars. Saint Mary's has not played the school in recent years, and the coaches have not yet seen Concordia play. 
The Belles are not worried about the uncertainty sur­rounding their opponent head­ing into the match, though. 
"We don't really know a whole lot about them, and that's fine with me," Schroeder-Biek said. ''I'm ready to go into this with us setting the standard and us playing our best game. And not being concerned about what our opponent is like." 
Tuesday's loss was particu­larly worrying for Saint Mary's because they were fully aware of the quality of their oppo­
see BELLES/page 26 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Irish stock soaring after tourney 
Marquee wins propel Notre Dame up polls, give team confidence 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
After telling themselves all week they could hang with the creme de Ia creme of the vol­leyball world, the Irish (6-0) found out they could do more than just hang -they could win. 
They became part of the nation's cream of the crop at the University of Texas-San Antonio's Dome Rally, whip­ping up such an impressive weekend, they shot up the rankings -faster than any team in the history of the poll. 
Notre Dame jumped 11 spots in the American Volleyball Coaches' Association Top 25, from No. 19 to No. 8, with weekend victories over then No. 8 Southern Cal, Oklahoma and then No. 6 Florida. After the three matches, the Irish were the sole unbeaten squad at the Rally. 
"It's amazing," sophomore 


setter Ashley Tarutis said. "This weekend was the first time we;ve all played really well together, and it was really exciting to be rewarded with a No. 8 ranking after finally combining all of our skills." 
Coach Debbie Brown said she was pleased to get the recognition but acknowledged there are more important things that came from last weekend. 
''I'm actually more proud of the way that we played," she said. "I think the rankings aren't anything that we really have control over. We do want to be a top 10 program, so I'm not going to say that doesn't mean anything. 
"It's a good feeling to know 
see IRISH/page 24 

en 
SMC GOLF 
FOOTBALL 
NBA 

MlB-Nl 
MlB-Al

NHl 
LLI

1--
c.,) 
Houston 10 
Cleveland 6 
z Saint Mary's sprints 
New Orleans Hornets 
Patriots' quarterback 

Star Penguins' rookie 
Florida 2 
Oakland 4 

•..; 
away with Calvin 
search for a temporary
Tom Brady makes good 

Sidney Crosby raises a 
Roger Clemens gets 
Indians maintain 2
::5 
College Invite by seven-
arena in wake of
on bet with ex-coach 

stir as practice begins in 
12th win after death of 
1/2 game wild-card
c:s 
stroke margin. 
Hurricane Katrina. 
Charlie Weis. 
Pittsburgh. 

mother in morning. 
lead over Yankees. 
c:c 
page 26 
page 22
page 25 

page 20 
page 17 
page 16

en = 











