
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

By MARY KATE MALONE News Writer 
Notre Dame learned Sunday it will face Ohio State in the Fiesta Bowl Jan. 2, securing a payout of $14.8 million for the University and placing some Notre Dame students from Ohio in a tense tug-of-war between hometown Buckeye pride and a fighting Irish spir­it. 
The Ohio State University is practically in sophomore Chris Doughty's backyard. lie grew up a loyal Buckeye fan -so passionate that he hated Notre Dame when it looked like the two teams would face each other in a bowl game during his sophomore year of 


It's a Fiesta: Bowl excites Irish fans 
high school. 
"This is pretty much the worst thing that's ever hap­pened to me," Doughty said. "It was just a dagger in my heart because I've been a diehard OSU fan my entire life. I wept when they won tho 12002] national championship and now I have to root against them -it's kind of a big deal." 
He said he might lose friends over it, but after a year and a half under the Dome, there's no doubt Doughty will be cheering for Notre Dame. 
"Hopefully I'm gonna go because it's not too often that the two teams I would kill for 
see BCS/page 4 

-------__-__-_---=========================================================================== 
Better than Ezra concert a llloderate success 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
N~ws Writer 
Whiln tho instant sellout crowd for the Student Union Board's first 1wnnt of the smnestnr -a corm~dic visit on Ort. R from Vince Vaughn and rrew -was an obvious hit, reactions Wllrll mixed after the sewnd big on-campus show of thn year, a Better Than Ezra eoneert Friday night. 
Jimmy Flaherty, Student Union Board presidnnt, called Friday's Bettm Than Ezra con­enrt a success, emphasizing strong tirk11t sales and enthusi­astic stud11nt reviews. 
"We were extremely happy," Flaherty said. "W11 talked to a lot of people at .the show, and they had nothing but positive rnviews. A lot of people said 
this has been one of the better shows they've seen, in the quality of the band and the way they played to the audi­ence." 
Approximately 1,000 tickets were sold, a figure not far off of the l,ORR capacity that fire regulations assigned to Stepan Center that night. 
The building did not appear full to all the students in atten­dance. Freshman Bridget Cullen said she thought she would see more people at the show but still enjoyed the per­formance. 
"I was expecting more peo­ple, but there were a good number of people there," she said. "I really liked it. It was a lot of fun." 
Attendance levels were 
see EZRA/ page 4 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 


Arabic 
• 


grovvs In popularity 
Language becoming more common at ND 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
The two young women, clad in dark, floor-length robes, gesture excitedly as they greet one another. "Salaam," they say, and pro­ceed to converse for a few moments in Arabie. The other young people around them add their own com­ments in the language and laugh at a joke. 
Then, one of the young women turns to Professor Li Guo to ask a grammatical question. Guo, lounging by a window overlooking Notre Dame's snowy South Quad, answers her in Arabic. 
This elassroom scene ­now common at Notre Dame -would have been unheard of prior to 1989, when the first Arabic language courses were ol'fered at the University. In subsequent years, Arabic has becomo an increasingly popular offering at Notre Dame, a school known for its Irish Catholic heritage. Student demand caused a third year of formal Arabie study to be added for the 2005-06 academic year. while study beyond the third year is available through directed readings courses. 
The demand for Arabie 
see ARABIC/page 6 

Holiday event benefits children 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Saint Mary's Editor  
Armnd with popside sticks and  
faen paint, mnmbers of the  
Arnold Air Socinty, the serviee  
organization associated with  
Notrn Dame Air Foree HOTC, and  
Silver Wings. iLo.; dvilian eounter­ 
part, snt about to help 150 local  
underprivileged ehildrnn cele­ 
brate thn holidays in Angela  
Athlntic Facility at Saint Mary's  
Saturday.  
Christmas musk blared from  
the sound system as children  
lined up to sit on Santa's knee  
and ree11ivn presents donated  
through the Toys for Tots pro­ 
gram. Othnrs sat at tables making  
Christmas erafLo.; with the help of  
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's vol­ 
unteers.  
The nvent was Arnold Air  
Sodely and Silver Wings' annual  
Two children enjoy eating the materials needed for their edible  
see WINGS/page 4  arts and crafts project at Saint Mary's Field Day Sunday.  

Students use break for service, learning 
escoffers avariety ofvolunteer opportunities 
By SARAH WHEATON News Writer 

As students buckle down for end-of-semester projects and finals, some are also spending extra time in the elassroom preparing to participate in win­ter break seminars through the Center for Social Concerns (CSC). 
This year, the CSC is ofl'ering the always-popular The Church and Social Action seminar ­better known as Urban Plunge -in a number of sites all over the country. Also o!lered arc the Organizing, Power and Hope Seminar in Chicago, the Holy Cross Mission in Education Seminar in Arizona and the Border Issuns Seminar in Texas and Mexico. 
Jay Caponigro. dirnetor of the Organizing, Power and !lope Seminar, said he saw an increase in applications this year. 
"I bolievn this is dun to word of mouth, advertising and the experience of prnvious partici­panLo.;," Caponigro said. 
Notrn Dame's participation in a postseason bowl game has allbctod some students' plans ­some may now have to decide between participation in a semi­nar and attending a bowl game. 
llowever, Caponigro said he does not think the possibility of a 
see CSC/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, December 5, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Srrrile! You're on candid camera! 
Nuclear warfare is not an area I am well-versed in, so when I went to LaFortune to write an article on a lecture about the future of non-pro­liferation, I needed to concentrate. I 
sat down in a  
booth at 6:45  Kaitlynn Riely  
p.m. with the  
intent of finishing the article by 8.  Wire Editor  
With my laptop  
out and several  

pages of notes beside me on the 
table, it should have been obvious to 
anyone passing by that I was work­
ing. 
Forty-five minutes later, I was still writing when a guy came and sat down on the bench right across from me and started playing a game of solitaire with his cards. I looked at him for a minute, wondering why he was sitting at the table with me and not at one of the several other avail­able tables or chairs in the room. He avoided eye contact and continued playing an intense game of solitaire, partially covering my notes with his cards. (Yes, solitaire can be intense.) 
Having grown up with five younger siblings, I can handle more distrac­tions and noise when working than the typical person, so I moved my notes a little closer to me and con­tinued writing. 
A few minutes later, another guy came over to my table and greeted his solitaire-playing friend. He sat down and they started playing a game of War. 1kept expecting one of them to look up and notice me, but it never happened. It was as if I was not even there. Time was passing quickly and I needed to finish my article, so I returned to my comput­er and tried to ignore the card battle taking place just inches away from me. 
At 10 minutes before eight, a girl came to my booth -or what had been my booth -and sat down right next to me. She asked the guys if she could show them a magic trick. 
By this time, I am sandwiched in the corner. My backpack is close beside me to make room for the girl, my notes are in a pile right next to my computer, and I know my five siblings have never produced dis­traction like this. 
I decide it is not even worth it to ask them to leave, since I have such little time to finish and I am not sure 
.these people will be receptive to my 
request to move the magic show 
elsewhere. I begin to gather my 
things, and suddenly another stu­
dent emerges from behind a pillar 
with a videocamera. 
I was the target of a sociology class's project to see how people react when social norms are violat­ed. Now when I am in LaFortune, I keep an eye out for wandering card players and hidden cameramen. If I can help it, I will not be starring in any more hidden camera shows. 
Contact Kaitlynn Riely at kriely@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards irselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please conracr us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: ARE YOU PLANNING ON GOING TO THE BCS BOWL? 





John Soltis  Perry Shoemaker  Kiel Hockett  Diane Sullivan  Amelia Gillespie  Laura Brockelman  
freshman Morrissey  freshman Morrissey  freshman Dillon  freshman Howard  ·freshman Walsh  freshman Walsh  
"Is Chuck Norris the ultimate  "I wish."  "No, because I'm getting my tonsils out, and  "I'd go ifI had tickets."  "Of course, because I'm staying with  "Of course, because I live in Tempe. "  

dispenser of it sucks." justice?" 

HV PHAMffhe Observer 

Residents of Morrissey Manor decorated their hallways in preparation for their winter formal festivities Saturday. Each section was themed to look like a different country. 
OFFBEAT 

Ali G sued by Kazakhstan 
ALMATY, Kazakhstan -A British comedian who uses a boorish, sexist and racist Kazakh alter ego called Borat to poke fun at interviewees has responded to a legal threat from the Kazakh authorities by satirically wel­coming the move. 
Sacha Baron Cohen, who plays the spoof Kazakh televi­sion reporter in his "Da Ali G Show", incurred the wrath of Kazakhstan's Foreign Ministry this month after appearing as Borat at the annual MTV Europe Music Awards. 
He described shooting dogs for fun and said his wife could not leave Kazakhstan as she was a woman. The Foreign Ministry said his behavior was unacceptable and that Cohen might be serving politi­cal orders to tarnish Kazakhstan's reputation. 
Responding in character as Borat, Cohen, who is Jewish, said: "I like to state, I have no connection with Mr. Cohen and fully support my govern­ment's position to sue this Jew." 
Enormous straw goat burned by vandals 
STOCKHOLM, Sweden ­Vandals set light to a giant straw goat Saturday night in a central Swedish town, police said, an event that has happened so frequently it has almost become a Christmas tradition. 
It was the 22nd time that the goat had gone up in smoke since merchants in Gavle, 150 kilometers (90 miles) north of Stockholm, began erecting it to mark the holiday season. Police spokes­woman Margareta Olander said officers received a call just after 9 p.m. to report that the goat was ablaze. 
"In just a couple of minutes only a sooty wooden skeleton remained," she said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
her. " 
IN BRIEF 
Andrij M. Hlabse will per­form a senior recital on the jazz saxophone for his under­graduate degree from 7 p.m. to 8 today in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. The recital will fea­ture songs by Herbie Hancock, and George Gershwin as well as the self-composed "KreeFish". Additional performers include Larry Dwyer, Bill Nicks, and Darrel Tidaback. 
The Saint Mary's Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership will sponsor speaker Rachel Harding tonight in the Vander Vennet Theater in the Student Center from 7 p.m. to 9. The event is free and open to the public. 
The ND Breastfeeding Encouragement Support Team {BEST) will meet from 12 p.m. to 1 Tuesday in the Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Student Center. BEST supports nursing and pregnant moms at Notre Dame and babies are wel­come to meetings. E-mail Tracy Weber at tweber1@nd.edu to be added to the BEST listserv and get more information. 
A "Christmas at the CoMo" benefit concert will be held Wednesday, Dec. 7 in the Hammes Student Lounge of the Coleman Morse Center from 8 p.m. to 9. ND Celebration and instrumen­talists will perform, and the public is invited to attend. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 

25 15 

HIGH LOW 
TODAY r:t: 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
..... 
c( 
(.) 

0 
HIGH 20
..... 
LOW 15 

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
'~,()i;····

: 
. ' 
.. 
HIGH 18 LOW 10 


22 12 

20 10 

Monday, December 5, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND faculty can novv submit grades online 
End offall 2005 semester first for new process 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
During tlw summer, the Univflrsity rP.struetured the promss by which faculty members submit thnir studenLo.;' end-of-term hrrades. This month will mark the first Limn faculty use th1~ new sys­tem during thn school year. 
Several aspncts of the process havn bnen redesigned, but the largest change luLo.; been a move to online hrrade submission. 
"The new system is very straightlilrward," ao.;sistant regis­trar Chuck Hurley said. "Faculty nwmbers log on[tol insideND to gain secure aeenss to onlinH hrrad­ing ... The faculty member can submit th1~ir gradns from homn in South Bend or NP.w York or Paris. Bn•~ausn we are no longer Lied to a pap!lr procnss, the instructor has much mort>, versatility regarding time and loeation." 
Hurley said part of the impetus for lh1~ chang11 to lntnrnet-based grade submission wao.; the logisti­cal dil'fieulties associated with having faeulty submit grades on rnaehinn-readable forms at the end of eaeh semester. 
"Thn whole proeess took a great dflal of time and papnr," he said. "On the day gradns were due eaeh semestnr, several hundred instructors would have to walk ovflr to thn Ollicn of thn Hngistrar, ol'tnn through sleet, rain or snow, and turn in their grade list." 
The Registrar's Offiee does not expeet the switch to online grad­ing to cause problems with grade submission on this semester's Dec. 19 dnadline. 
"During Summer Session 2005, ov11r 600 elasses were graded online ... the process was simple, and many of the eomments we received from the faculty were quite positive," Hurley said. 
Hurley also said the ofTiee has set aside a room equipped with computers, which will have staff on hand to assist professors with concerns about submitting grades via the Internet. 
Hurley said the recent changes might affect students anxiously awaiting first-semester grades ovnr winter break. 
"[The new procedures] should improve the speed and accuracy of[students') grades," he said. "An instruetor . . . out of town can now grade a class online. Or, a person who might have accidentally missed the deadline previously beeause of' a torn paper copy ... will now make the deadline." 
The Office of the Hegistrar expeets first-semester grades to be available on Tuesday, Dec. 20. Once grades are posted, students will be able to access them within the Student Services channel of insideND. 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.edu 

College plans 12 days of giving 
Several Saint Mary's groups join together in Christmas donation efforts 
By MEGAN OSBERGER 
News Writer 
As department stores nation­wide prepare for the yuletide shopping season, Saint Mary's students prepare for the 12 Days of Christmas, a campus-wide charity drive that will benefit 12 local families. 
Spearheaded by the senior class board, the drivn indudes the participation of every club and organization on campus, and there is an event scheduled for each of the first 12 days in December. 
"I thought it would be a really great idea to have unified proj­ects because all of the class boards, campus clubs, athletic teams and offices have separate events every year," said senior class president Lauren Condon. "While these do work, everyone is eompnting for money, and ifwe could all work together, we were more likely to be successful." 
After asking the presidents of the other class boards for help, Condon said senior class officers presented the idea to Carrie Call, director of the Office for Civil and Social Engagement, Linda Timm, vice president of Student Affairs, and Patrick White, dean of facul­ty. 
The project is an expansion of previous charitable efforts, according to Call. Saint Mary's will help families through Hesources for Enriching Adult Living (REAL) Services, as they have in the past. In previous years. however, only faculty and staff had the opportunity to pur­chase presents for the families. This year, students can also directly contribute gifts. 
Several different services were used to select the families, includ­ing REAL Services and the Minority Health Coalition. 
"I was also put in touch with [Sex Offense Services] so we can provide lor women who ean't go home for Christmas due to sexual assaults," said Call. "The families from "No one on campus will be able to ignore thn drive." 
Planned activities included a showing of' "llomn Alone" in Vander Vennett Theater Dee. 4, sponsored by the Stud11nt Activity Board. The first-year board will be raffiing oil' the second room­pick number for each of' tlw elasses, and Christmas-grams sponsornd by the Student Diversity Board will be sold throughout th1~ drive. 
Students around campus am 
responding posi­
tivnly to the drive 

the Minority Health Ums far.
"The holidays are
Coalition are the ''I'm really ones who need our all about giving to happy about all of' help the most. They others." the chances we are recent immi­get to help other grants who have people to enjoy
Sarah Lavelle 
almost nothing." Christmas," said Three families junior junior Sarah 
were also suggest­ed by Marquette Primary School, Saint Mary's partner school, said Call. 
"The idea," Call said, "is that we give students more than one opportunity to help, and that is exactly what the 12 Days of Christmas is going to do." 
Each year the Business OfTice, Admissions Office and the Psychology Honors Society Psi Chi sponsor a family themselves. This year, lead by residence advi­sor Becky Wmston, second floor Regina North will also adopt its own family. 
"I just think the campus is going to be oozing with Christmas spirit," Condon said. 
Lavelle. "The hol­

idays are all about giving to others, and I'm ~lad that we can be a ~art of that from our own campus. 
The activities will wind down Dec. 12 at the annual Late Night Breakfast serVl~d by faculty and staff, when the total amount of' money raised will bo announcnd. 
"We just ma.lly want this to bo an event that brings the Saint Mary's family together," said Condon. "My hope is that this year will bo thn first of many Christmas drives at Saint Mary's." 
Contact Megan Osberger at mosberO1@saintmarys.edu 

 
1: Friday, December 9 t-:9PM-llPM*Legends ;k... Free t-shirts to the first 50 people D.J. -tf: Food :k...-* Dancing  

Monday, December 5, 2005
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
but it was still pretty entertain­in Ohio," Flaherty said. agreed that Better Than Ezra right." ing," he said. "I think they "They're a great up-and-com­was somewhat of a throwback. This particular Better Than

Ezra 
continued from page 1 
where senior Lee Regner expected them. 
"When in e-mails [SUB] said it was going to sell out, I knew from other concerts I'd been to that probably wasn't the case," he said. 
Hegner also said he enjoyed Better Than Ezra's perform­ance at The Show his freshman year and decided to see them again Friday. 
"I didn't know the new songs 
esc 
continued from page 1 
bowl game has seriously affected student participation in his semi­nar. 
Several students said that while they would be sad to miss a bowl game, it has not affected their plans for the break. 
"I feel I would be doing myself, and others, a disservice if I didn't participate," said sophomore Hegina Gesicki, who will partici­pate in the New York City Plunge. "It's part of becoming educated, to see what social responsibility is and to step away from apathy." 
The Urban Plunge seminar is the largest of all esc seminars, accom­modating up to 400 students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross. Urban Plunge sends students to various cities across the nation, with 43 different sites available this year. During their 48-hour immersion, the students will be exposed to the problems of poverty in these urban centers. 
Notre Dame senior Sara Urben said she will be considering prob­lems that are close to home -lit­erally. 
"I chose to do Urban Plunge in Chicago because as someone who lives 15 minutes outside of the city in the suburbs, I only see one side of the city," she said. "After doing a Summer Service Project in Chicago, I realized that there is an ugly side to the city that I love so much. I wanted to do an Urban 


Wings 
continued from page 1 
Field Day, an occasion that takes months to plan, according to Arnold Air Society director of operations Ashley Shelton. 
"The main goal is just to throw a huge Christmas party for kids who might not otherwise get to celebrate in this way," Shelton said. 
Shelton said the children in attendance came from a variety of community centers throughout the South Bend area, including Madison Center, Logan Center and the Boys and Girls Club of South Bend. For the first time this year, children who live in the University Village were also invit­ed. 
Field Day is tailored specifically for children, but Shelton said many parents, such as women from St. Margaret's House, also attended. 
A junior, Shelton said she has participated in Field Day for the past three years and estimated the program has existed for seven years. 
"It is a great opportunity for us as college students to get involved with these kids," Shelton said. "We end up learning a lot from them." 
In past years, Field Day was were a good choice -a rela­tively well-known band -but it would be nice if they had brought in someone totally new." 

SUB's selection of Better Than Ezra was based on sur­veys of student opinion. 
"Better Than Ezra was far and away the most popular choice," Flaherty said. 
The opening band, Marking Twain, was also received well. 
"A lot of people at Notre Dame went to high school with the [Marking Twain] members 
Plunge to learn more about the issues that affect our nation's big cities." 
While students participating in the Urban Plunge seminar usually serve in areas near their own home, other seminars require stu­dents to travel across the country. Participants in the Border Issues Seminar will serve in both El Paso, Texas and Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. 
Elias Moo, who participated in this seminar last winter break, is now serving as one of its two stu­dent coordinators. 
"The seminar experience has impacted me in a way that now I feel it is a responsibility and a mis­sion to pass on what I have seen and lived to others who may not recognize the reality of the border and our broken immigration poli­cy," Moo said. 
The seminars show students a side of life some have never expe­rienced before. 
''I'm expecting to be shaken up and upset from what I see," Gesicki said. "I hope I can learn from the people I meet or the situ­ations I encounter and take some­thing with me." 
Moo said he hoped this new per­spective would have a serious impact on students. 
"I think the greatest challenge of these seminars is allowing our­selves to be open to the realities of the disparities that exist socially and economically in the U.S.," he said. 
Contact Sarah Wheaton at swheaton@nd.edu 
held at the South Bend Armory. However, Saint Mary's provided a more accessible location for vol­unteers coming from Notre Dame, Shelton said. The College also allowed Arnold Air Society and Silver Wings to use Angela free of charge. 
The community also rallied around the children and the event, Shelton said. Papa John's sold the group dozens of pizzas at a discounted price, and the toys distributed were collected by the Marine Corps through the Toys for Tots program. 
Silver Wings secretary Elizabeth Clifton, who has volun­teered at Field Day for the past three years, said the organiza­tions succeeded in their goal of helping as many underprivileged kids as possible. 
"One of the kids came up to me afterwards and was like, 'This is the best field trip ever,"' Clifton said. 
Shelton said Arnold Air Society and Silver Wings members who are responsible for the event con­tinue to get better at carrying it out each year, and Field Day will likely continue for many years to come. 
"It was wonderful," Shelton said. "We a had a really great time with the kids. I think every­one went home happy." 
Contact Megan O'Neil at ing band, and they got a stand­ing ovation." 
Sophomore Jake O'Neil did not attend the concert because of other plans, but said he would have attended if his friends had chosen to. 
"I liked [Better Than Ezra] growing up but haven't heard anything from them recently," he said. "I think [artist selec­tion] was better than The Show. I personally would have rather seen Better Than Ezra than Cake and Akon." 
Simona Fernandes, a junior, 
BCS 

continued from page 1 
them to play each other," Doughty said. "Basically I'm going to sell my body -flesh and soul so I can go." 
Notre Dame's campus was buzzing with BCS chatter Sunday evening as word of Notre Dame's opponent spread. Sophomore and Ohio native Alexander Harper· said he was fielding phone calls from curious Ohio State friends back home after the BCS announcement -all of them wondering who Harper would be cheering for on Jan. 2. 
"My heart hurts and I'm torn," Harper said. "I've always been a lifelong Buckeye fan. I gotta choose. It's tough, I don't know what to think. I just don't know if I'm as hardcore as other stu­dents here." 
The jury is still out on Harper's decision. He hadn't made up his mind as of Sunday evening. 
Junior Madison Liddy and sophomore Meagan Fitzpatrick were not aware of 
"I think Better Than Ezra is a band that was more of my babysitter's taste rather than my own," she said. "They're just a little bit before I started listening to pop music." 
Against her own expecta­tions, Fernandes did enjoy the show. 
"I went to their show only knowing one song and wasn't expecting too much, but the band just had so much person­ality," she said. "The lead singer mixed in other songs with the band's and it was just 
the news as they ate in a crowded South Dining Ilall Sunday, but were thrilled nonetheless. 
"I'm really excited. I know our boys will pull out a victo­ry," Liddy said. "We always have a chance. I think we have a chance against any team in the United States." 
Liddy, who lives in California, said she will be driving to the game in Tempe, Ariz. 
Senior John Duft'ner said he believes the matchup is a promising one, pitting two of the nation's best teams togeth­er -both with rabid football followers in their wake. 
"I think it's always great when two teams with two [of the] most passionate fan bases in all of college football play each other," Duffner said. "OSU has done well, they've got almost as much tradition, but they're a distant second to us." 
Notre Dame's fan base spans the globe. Junior Benoit Huon said he will be watching the game from his home in Paris. He chose to attend Notre Dame because he wanted to watch the football team win a national championship. He Ezrq. concert may have stood out in its quality, Flaherty said, a fact he attributed to the hard work of Chris Lund, the SUB Concerts Programmer, and the members of SUB. 
"In our mind, it was a huge success," he said. "The concert reviewers on Better Than Ezra's Web site said it was one of the best Better Than Ezra concerts they'd ever seen." 
Contact Karen Langley at klanglel@nd.edu 

said the Fiesta Bowl is close enough. 
''I'll have to try to find an American bar [in Paris]." Benoit said. ''I'll be there from midnight to 4 a.m. watching it. And I'll wear my ND outfit and I'll be hootin' and hollerin' all the way through the game." 
As the only independent major football program in the country, Notre Dame does not have to share its BCS bowl money with a conference ­allowing the University to keep the hefty payout for itself. Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves has said that any bowl money will likely be spent on academic initiatives. 
Specific bowl money distri­bution discussions should begin by the end of this semes­ter, University spokesman Matt Storin said last month. 
According to a University press release, Notre Dame's ticket allotment is 15,000 tick­ets and none will be released for public sale. 
Ticket information for stu­dents planning to travel to the game is expected to be released in an e-mail today. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 


o~e!0907@s~~tma_rys.edu I' .... t~"!""''-r"'"l"'-~~-~----------""i""'----..,.-""i""'_!""""!___..,...,.______., 
L-------------------~--------~------------------------------------------------------------­
December 8  7am t:o 3:00am  lVIidnight: Snacks!  
December 9  7am t:o 3:00am  lVIidnight: Snacks!  
December 10  7am t:o 3:00am  lVIidnight: Snacks!  
December 11  7am t:o 3:00am  lVIidnight: Snacks!  
Finals Week:  Dec, 12-16  Open: 7am t:o 3:00am  
*December 16 DeBart:olo closes 30 minut:es aCt:er last: scheduled exam t:hrough t:he Regist:rar's Of"fice. Free lVIidnight: Snacks on st:udy days only! 


24 Non-t:echnology rooms, first: come/ first: serve 
See BuiLd.ing Suppor~ Person ifyou have spec{fic needs: Room 103, 104. 
Coleman-JVI.orse: 1st: Floor Lounge 7:00am-4am daily. Same dat:es as list:ed above. Always-Free Snacks! 
O'Shaughnessy: Rooms avaiLabLefor open s~udy excep~ -.vhen scheduLed by ~he Regis~rar ,s office. 
December 8 8:00am t:o 3:00am December 9 8:00am t:o 3:00am December 10 8:00am t:o 3:00am December 11 8:00am t:o 3:00am Finals Week: December 12-16 Sam t:o 3:00am Sunday 1:OOpm t:o 3:00am. lVIonday-Thursday 5:00pm-3:00am. Rooms: 204, 206, 207, 208, 209. 
~·nacks during S~udy Days cour~esy o.f:· Business Operations Ca'"'¥7US A-firzis~y 
S~uderz~ Urzion Board 
***Good Luck ""it:h Finals*** 







ORLD &NATION 
Monday, December 5, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Election boycotted by opposition 
CAHACAS, V1mezuela -Candidates alignnd with President llugo Chavez were widnly expectnd to increase their legislative majority Sunday as Venezuelans voted for a nnw National Assnrnbly in an eleetion boy­cottod by several opposition parties. 
Willian Lara, a leading lawmaker in Chavez's govnrning party, said internal tallies of tho Firth Hnpublic Movement indicated pro-Chavez candidatns eould sweep all 167 of tlw assembly's seats. 
Chavez earlinr disrnissnd the boycott as a failnd ploy to sabotage legitimate eleetions and avoid an nrnbarrassing dofnat, and ol'li­cials latnr blanwd a pipeline explosion on govnrnnwnt opporwnts. 
"Tiw wholn world knows a true dnmocracy is in motion hnn~ in VPnezunla," Chavez said al'tnr voting at a school where dwering sup­P~'rt«~rs grnntml him outsido. 
Volunteers rebuild after tsunami 
KIIAO I.AK. Thailand -Four months aftnr llw tsunami stru!'k, Andy-Chaggar gavn up his Pnginnnring job in England and rnturrwd to Thailand to lwlp rnhuild houses rwar wlwrP his girll'riPnd was swnpt to hm diHtth. 
"It S«H•mnd irrnlnvant to go back to my old joh and work for a profit-making company," said Chaggar. So now hn managns a housing projnr.t for sonw ISO Thais in tho village of Thap Tawan. in tlw Khao Lak rnsort aroa :~hO milns south of Bangkok. 
Tlw kiiiPr wavn that struck on Dec. 26 kiiiPd !1,400 pnopln in Thailand; 2,43h were l'orPigrwrs. Tlwn~ arn 2.1\00 people still miss­ing. In II rountrins aiTnctnd by tlw narth­quakn and tsunami. morn than 176,000 pno­pln dind. The disastnr lel't 50,000 missing and hundn~ds or thousands honwlnss across llw n~gion. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Singers honored at Kennedy Center 
WASHINGTON -Tina Turner and Tony Bm111ntt. two logends of American music, nanwd aceoladns from a broad array of pop and jazz stars Sunday during the Kennedy Conter llonors. 
In honor of Turrwr, Quoon Latil'ah sang "What's Love Got to Do With It," Mnlissa mlwridge sang "Hivor Deep, Mountain lligh" and BPyonce Knowles perfi1rrnnd "Proud Mary." 
Oprah Winl'rny called herself "Tina's biggest known groupie" and spoke of seeing Turner pnrlill'ln live, advising the star-studded audience at tlw .John F. Kennedy Center for the l'erfill'lning Arlo;, "Add that to the list of things you do bnlilrfl you die." 
Bmuwtt was saluted with performances of' standards like "I Loft My lleart in San Frandsm," by trumpeter Wynton Marsalis. "For Om·n in My Life." by H&B star .John Legend. and "Fly Me to the Moon," by chantouse Diana Krall. 
Sex-abuse law under review 
Pllii.AI>ELPIIIA -Homan Catholic Church ol'ficials in Pennsylvania say a pro­posal to let sexual-abuse victims lite law­suits dneadns aft11r they wnre abused would be "l'undarnnntally unfair" and could financially ruin diocnses across the state. 
l'mmsvlvania has a strict statute of limi­tations ·that has kept most sexual abuse rasns out of tlw eourts, but somo lawmak­ll rs a I'll now rllt~o mm orHl in g a one -year window in whieh victims eould liln lawsuits rllgardlllss of wlwn tlw abuse occurred. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Incentives slow to reach southwest 
I•:VANSVILI.E. Ind. -Only a tiny frac­tion of thP $16:J million in incPntiVI'S that tlw statn's rww Pt'ollolllit: dovnlopment ageru~y has distributPd has gorw to south­WPstern Indiana, a rPport Sunday said. 
Tlw Indian a l\1:o no 111 ic ])eve I o p llHHl t, which replac11d llw Indiana Department of Commerce earlier this year, has promised only $7.2 million, or 4 percent of the total, to companies in the southwestern corner of the state, according to an analy­sis by the Evansvillo Courier and Pross. 
PAKISTAN 

Pakistan says terrorist killed 
U.S. denies involvement but shrapnel at site appears to be American-made missile 
Associated Press 

MillAN SIWI -Shrapnel that appeared to be from an American-made missile was found Sunday at the house whom Pakistan said a top al­Qaida operative was killed in an explosion, although President Bush's national security adviser declined to confirm the death. 
U.S. and Pakistani ollidals deelinnd to conlirm an NBC rnport, citing anonymous ollidals, that the attack on the house where Jlarnza Habia reportedly died was launched by a U.S. drone. 
But local residents found 
at least two pieces of shrap­
nel at tiHl blast scene 
inscribed with thn designa­
tion of the I Inlllire missilo, 
which is carried by the U.S. 
Air Fon~P' s unmanned. 
rmnote-eontrolled Predator 
aircraft. 

· The metal pieces bore the 
designator "AGM-114," the 
words "guided missile" and 
tho initials "US." 

.John Pike, director of the 
defnnsn Web sitn GlobaiSecurity.org, said th11 llolllim is used almost exdu­. sively by the U.S. military. Al­Qaida operatives would be unlikely to have Hellfire mis­siles, Pike said, although he 
said the possibility could not 
bo eomplotely discounted. Qaida's top live leaders and ligence ollicial said tlw mis­but said there was "otlwr 
A man who lives near the responsible for planning sile attack blew up a sto<~k­information" besides tho 
house said he hoard at least overseas attacks, was dead pile of bomb-making matnri­DNA tesLo; that confirmed his 
two detonations and saw a or that the attack was ear­als, grenades and other identity. 
white streak of light before a ried out by a pilotless U.S. munitions. Pakistan Interior "lin was a high-profile 
missile hit tho house, spark­plane. Minister Af'l.ab Khan Shnrpao commander in tho network. 
ing a hugo explosion. "At this point we are not in said Habia's two Syrian We wero tradng him li1r the 
"I ran to my horne foaring a position publidy to eonfirm bodyh'1Jards also died in the last two years," Slwrpao told 
it may hit me," said that he is dead. But if he is, explosion. The Associatnd Pross on 
Mohammed Nasir, adding that is a good thing for the Pakistani officials said Sunday. "Naturally any per­
that rnsidents were unawam war on terror," Hadley told Habia's death was eonlirmod son killed in their hienm:hy 
that li1reigners wem living in "Fox News Sunday." by DNA tests. But the Dawn is a big blow fill' tlwm." 
their neighborhood. Habia was involved in newspaper, citing oflidals it Two U.S. eountnrtnrrorism 
A senior Pakistani intelli­planning two assassination did not identify, said oflicials, who spoke on condi­genee official, speaking on plots against Pakistani Saturday his body had been tion of anonymity bm:ause of eondition of anonymity President Gen. Pervez retrieved by associatns from the inlhrmation 's sensitivity, because he is not authorized Musharraf, and "we believe outside Pakistan. Dawn also said Saturday that Habia was to talk to the media, said he was involved in planning cited unnamed sources say­bnlieved to be an Egyptian Saturday that Habia died in a for attacks against the ing the attack may have and head of ai-Qaida's for­huge explosion set ofl' by a United States," Hadley said. been launched from two eign operations, possibly as missile attaek. Musharraf said Saturday it pilotless planes. senior <L<; the No. 3 in the ter­
U.S. national security was "200 percent con­Information Minister rorist group, just below ai­advisor Stephen lladlny firmed" that Habia was Sheikh Hashid Ahmed Qaida leadlll' Osama bin declined to conl'irm that killed. declined to comment on tho Laden and his linutenant, Habia, said to be among al-The senior Pakistani intel-n~port about Habia's remains Ayrnan al-Zawahri. 

fRANCE 

First partial face transplant successful 
slightly  mon~  nlt~vatnd  risk of can­ 
CI'r."  
Tlw  woman rnt~nivPd  a St'dion  or  

a nosP, lips and chin in tlw 15-hour transplant suq.wry on Nov. 27 in tlw nort.lwrn city of AmiPns. near lwr honw. The worn an. th I' divo rn~d motlwr of two lPnnagn daughtPrs, has not boon id11ntil'ied by name. 
Shn was mauled by a pnt Labrador in May, lnaving her with severe faeial injuries that her doe­tors said made it diflicult for her to speak and eat. Tho dog was put down. 
Associated Press 

I'AHIS-Tho rnciph~nt of the world's first partial facP transplant was thriving medically and psycho­logically a w1wk after hPr ground­breaking surgery, om1 of lwr doe­tors said Sunday. 
The woman, whoso face had been partially disfigurnd by a dog, appean~d relatiVfdy normal after the operation and doctors were pleased with her mental state, Dr. Jean-Miehel Dubernard said in a telephone interview. Doctors had b"un worrind about the pot.entially rwga.tivP psyrhologilHtl ef'f'pets of rPrl'iVing part Of SOil11'01111 Plsp's l'acn. 
"Siw is pt'rft•t·l.." lhrlwrnard said. "Psyt:lwlogil'ally, shn is rloing vPry WI' II." 
Dubornard, one of tlw woman's two lead surgeons, said that the 38­ynar-old would remain hospitalized in the southeast city of Lyon for four to six weeks. She must take drugs to prevent her body from rejecting the donated facial parts, which Dubernard has said carry "a 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, December 5, 2005 
Arabic 
continued from page I 

courses has taken off in recent years. 
"Every semester we get more and more students," said Professor Joseph Amar, director of the Program in Arabic Studies. "It's a growth industry. The numbers are going through the roof." 
Amar said the three sec-

Mikha spent part of her junior year in Cairo, where she found many students who, like herself, were half Arab but not fluent in the language. 
"There are a lot of kids who are part Arab who are trying to get in touch [with that background]." she said. 
Mikha said only a few of her Arabic classmates at Notre Dame are of Middle Eastern descent. 
"A lot of kids who study 
Arabic at Notre 
Dame are political 
tions of begin­science and peace ning Arabic "'fyou finish with studies majors," Mikha said. "They
first imple­some Arabic and a 
mented in are also studying
knowledge ofthe
2003 will grow Arabic because it to six sections Middle East, you're is important to the
• 
by spring one in a million in world situation." 
2006. A few of her
this country." 
"Even those, classmates are unfortunately, pursuing c.areers in have to be big Joseph Amar the Central sections with professor Intelligence Agency 30 students," (CIA) or in other he said. "We government try to accom-branches seeking modate as many people as we Arabic speakers. Though can." Mikha plans to pursue a 
In spring 2005, the five career in law while earning a scheduled Beginning Arabic Master's degree in Arabic, classes did not pro"vide she has seen evidence of gov­enough room for the num­ernment agencies' interest in bers of students interested, hiring Arabic-speaking stu­and an extra section was dents. scheduled at the last "It's funny because once moment. Amar had to leave you start taking it, when you the small Arabic program to go online, every once in while find an instructor, but engi­when you get a pop-up [ad], neering professor Ramzi it says in Arabic 'If you can Bualuan -a native Lebanese read this, we need you' and -agreed to teach the class. it's from the CIA," Mikha 
Upper-level courses in said. spring 2006 have just one Amar suggested that most section, but Amar predicted students' strengthened inter­that multiple sections will be est in Arabic derives from available in coming years, as their professional goals. students advance in the lan­"People who study Arabic guage. do it for the professional 
Amar, a Catholic priest advantage they get in busi­born in ness, govern­Lebanon, has ment and the been respon­media,"
"People who study
sible for the Amar said.
Arabic do it for the 
major in "If someone Arabic since professional advantage has a few. 
its inception they get in business, credits in 
in 1999. The Spanish,
government and the
major, which [employers] is housed media. Ifsomeone has a don't look 
under the few credits in Spanish, twice, but 
Department of Arabic jumps
[employers] don't look 
Classics, fea­out." tures courses twice, but Arabic And if the in Arabic lan­jumps out." Arabie majors' guage, histo­employment ry, religion rate is any indi­
Joseph Amar
and literature cator, Amar's in translation. professor statement is 
W h i l e true. majors must "Our majors take at least four semesters are either accepted into grad in Arabic language, Amar schools or have jobs before said it is also important for they finish their senior students to develop a famil­years," Amar said. "If you iarity with the culture of the finish with some Arabic and Arab world. a knowledge of the Middle 
"Because the Arabic lan­East, you're one in a million guage is spoken in a part of in this country." the world that most Representatives and Americans are not familiar · recruiters from the govern­with, it is important to learn ment, business and media something about the culture come to campus each spring of the Middle East," he said. solely to meet Arabic majors, "In general, Americans don't Amar said. Though students know much about countries sometimes think the govern­in which Arabic is spoken ment would be the most like­except what's shown on TV, ly hirer of Arabic speakers, and that's bogus." both business and media are 
Natasha Mikha, a senior providing growing opportuni­Arabic and Peace Studies ties. major, has had more expo­"Businesses doing business sure to Middle Eastern cul­in the Middle East are learn­ture than most Americans. ing that more employees can Mikha, whose father is Iraqi, deal with Middle Easterners was raised speaking Arabic on their own ground -even but had stopped using the if they are not fluent but language long before college. know some Arabic, it indi­
"I was fluent up until about cates a certain level of age eight, but with doing bet­respect and willingness to ter in school and trying to understand them on their learn English, I lost it," she own ground," Amar said. said. "When we got to a cer­All areas of media are also tain age, my parents demanding increased com­switched us to English." munication with teams around the world, leading to "Most students just lap it Bocinsky said he realized the a need for speakers profi­up, they love it," he said. importance of language skills cient in Arabic. Mikha said that when in contemporary internation­
"One of the fastest growing Americans do have difficulty al journalism. is the media, in broadcast learning Arabic, it may be "I realized that it is a hot and print journalism," Amar because the language incor­topic, not just to the United said. He also said that like in porates sounds that are States, but to the entire other fields, media does not unknown to English speak­world," he said. "I've always view fluency in the Janguage ers. wanted to go into broadcast as important as the ability to "It's difficult because it's journalism, and Arabic is simply communicate with like nothing you've heard something people going into journalists in the Middle before," she said. world journalism need to East. In Arabic, only long vowels know." 
Arabic's reputation as a dif­are written, Mikha said: Bocinsky said he had diffi­ficult language to learn likely "Certain words are spelled culty studying Spanish and stems from its different the same but the short vow­Latin in high school and alphabet. Mikha suggested, els make them different, so wanted to try a totally differ­however, that the very fact it in reading a newspaper, that ent language. has an alphabet makes can make them difficult for "I thought learning a new Arabic easier to learn than beginners," she said. alphabet -instead of just languages, like Chinese, that For Mikha, the hard work translating -would be a write in characters. of relearning Arabic has paid good experience," he said. "I 
"If you can master memo­off. made it through the first half rizing the alphabet and pro-· "At least on a resume, I will of the semester while we nouncing the letters, then put that I can speak, read were learning the alphabet, you're fine sounding out and write reasonably well," but when we started learning words," she said. "It's like she said. ''I'm not fluent after vocabulary, I realized that I taking kindergarten and first five semesters, but I'm com­was having the same prob­grade all over again." fortable enough to pause and lems I'd had with other lan­
As a native Arab and fish for words." guages." American professor, Amar While Mikha has done well Bocinsky said the highly­said he has seen a tendency with regaining her Arabic, motivated Arabic faculty was of Americans some students not the problem. to become have more dif­"The difficulty does not intimidated ficulty learn-stem from the professors," he by other lan­ing the lan­said. "Because the program guages. "Because the program is guage. Kyle is difficult, it has trouble 
"Americans Bocinsky, a retaining students. Lots [of
difficult, it has trouble 
are sort of sophomore students] didn't make it language-shy," retaining students. majoring in through the second semes­Amar said. Lots [of students] didn't anthropology ter." "People come and physics, Still, the Arabic program's
make it through the 
to Arabic d r o p p e d increasing popularity and
second semester." 
expecting the Beginning relatively high retention rate worst, but we Arabic I his speak to the increased teach it in a Kyle Bocinsky freshman awareness of issues in the very user­year. Middle East among college

sophomore
friendly way. Bocinsky's students. I tell stu-interest in "For a long time, education dents that if Arabic was has been European-centered, they're hav-spurred by a but clearly the trajectory is now ing trouble summer towards Asia and the Middle with Arabic, it's not being internship at CNN's interna­East," Amar said. "Notre Dame taught right." tional broadcasting studio in acknowledges that and is put­
Amar said that most suc­Atlanta, Ga. He helped pro­ting students in touch with the cessful students value the duce two news segments -direction that things are goi~g." challenge and intellectual both involving the Middle stimulation of learning a new East -for international Contact Karen Langley at language. broadcast. Like Amar, klanglel@nd.edu 


Want to be 
Sillden tB ody P res.iden t? 

Info Meeting Tomorrow (Dec. 6) 
8PM LaFortune's Foster Room 
All interested students are encouraged to attend to learn about rules, regulations, and dates. 
Questions? 
Contact the Judicial Council at icouncil@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Monday, December 5, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Stocks Dow 

10,877.51 -35.06
}ones 
·~ Same: Down: Composite Volu1 2,543 2,630,046,714


120 '!/' 

AMEX I ,726.45 +l6.97l NASDAQ +6.20
2.17?!:~~7 0 ,

NYSE 7,760.85 +4.31 S&PSOO I ,265.08 +0.41 NIKKEI(Tokyo) IS.421.60 0.00 FTSf IOO(l.Dndon) 5,528.10 +42.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SUN MICROSYS INC (CSCO) +1.73 +0.07 3.95 NASDAQ II 0 TR (QQQQ) +0.24 +0.10 42.107 JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU) -3.93 -0.11 2.69 INTEL CP (INTC) +0.92 +0.25 27.43 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -0.05 17.64
-0.28 

Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.19 -0.09 47.17 10-YEARNOTE -0.04 -0.02 45.19 5-YEARNOTE -0.09 -0.04 44.46 3-MONTH BILL +0.39 +0.15 38.92 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.85 59.32 GOLD ($/Troy Ol.) +0.70 507.00 PORK BELLIES (cents.llb.) -1.73 88.78 
fxcha Rates 

YEN 121.0000 
EURO 0.8540 
POUND 0.5770 
IN BRIEF 
Nationwide gas prices continue to fall 
CAMAHILLO, Calif. -Hntail gas prices have eontinued to drop across the country, falling an additional 11 cents in the past two weeks, according to a survey released Sunday. 
The weighted average price for all three gradns droppnd to $2.16 a gallon on Dec. 2, said Trilby Lundberg, who publishes the semi­monthly Lundberg Survey of 7,000 gas sta­tions around the country. 
Self-serve regular averaged $2.13 a gallon nationwide. Midgrade cost $2.24, and the price l'or premium was $2.33. 
Prices have fallen about 88 cents a gallon since Snptnmbnr, Lundborg said. 
Among stations surveyed, the lowest aver­age price in the eountry for regular unleaded was $1.89 a gallon in Tulsa, Okla. The highest prien was $2.55 in Honolulu. 
Health care provider creates bank 
CIIICAGO -The Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association wants to launch a bank that will administer its eonsumer-directed health plans, a rnsponsibility currently shared by third-party financial institutions. 
The assoc~iation announced Monday that its hoard of direetors has approved development of the Blue llealthcare Bank. The aim is to simplify the administration of health savings a.ccounts and othnr similar plans offered by Blue Cross insurp,rs throughout the United Statns, said Scott Serota, president and chief clxecutive oflicer of the assodation. 
The hank, which would be based in Salt Lake City, would give those enrolled in Blue Cross plans a familiar, e~ntralized financial institu­tion to monitor and access their accounts, Snrotit said. Crnation of the bank is subject to rngulatory approval. 
"By being dosnfy aligned and integrated with your lwrwlits, WP will bo able to ensurn that your account is paid properly and that your dndurtibln willlw appfiml eorrnctly," he added. 
llnalth savings ar.counts (IISAsl can be sot up hy c:onsrrnwrs who haw high-dndw:tibfn insur­arH'.P plans. Bot.h worknrs and tlwir clmployors ran clPposit llliiiWY into tlw accounts, which grow tax l'rl'n and can lw usPd to pay l'or med­iral l'XJll'nsns. Unspc•nt money in tlw arcount lli'C'llllllrlatns and c:an be invnstnd through thn IISAs administrator. 
Actors union talks contracts 
Screen Actors Guild takes tougher stance against powerful media conglomerates 
Associared Press 

LOS ANGELES -The largest union representing actors has promised a new, tougher stance in contract talks with powerful media conglomerates. 
But the Screen Actors Guild may self-destruct before it ever gets the chance. 
The labor union's long­running infighting has escalated into what could become a mutiny after the election in September of SAG President Alan Hosenberg. 
Hosenberg and his allies gained a majority on the national board by pledging to squeeze more money from the studios from the sale of DVDs and new tech­nologies, including down­loading of films and TV shows. He also pledged to unite SAG's feuding !'ac­tions.­
Instead, Hosenberg, 55, divided the union even more by almost immediate­ly firing popular SAG national executive direetor Greg Hessinger. He had been hired by the previous leadership, which Rosenberg accused of' sur­rendering too easily on key economie issues in contract talks last year. 
Many union members see the firing as an arrogant display of power by SAG has always been a with studios and also !ired guild because of their num­Hosenberg that could final­fragmented labor union, his executive director soon bers, will abuse their ly split the union into two representing both multimil­after taking office. power and push through an groups -one that repre­lionaire superstars and Both men justified the fir­agenda that ignorns the sents film and TV actors, rank-and-file membership ings by saying they needed needs of actors in other primarily based in with an unemployment rate staff' who would push their regions. llollywood, and another of more than 80 percent. agendas of increasing Hosenberg acknowledges mostly comprised of mem­Membership in the union membership, fighting the that bridging these differ­bers in New York, Chicago is all but required to work rise of reality TV shows and ences is his most pressing and elsewhere who do in films, television and gaining more economic challenge. commercials and commercials. Many SAG concessions from studios. "You have people living in voiceovers. members also belong to the Rosenberg's action deep­all different areas of the 
Paul Christie, president of American Federation of ened the geographic rift country who feel like SAG's New York branch, Television and Radio that already existed in the they're muzzled and don't said talk of a split has heat­Artists, which has jurisdic­union. have a voice or are afraid ed up since the election of tion over the prime-time Actors outside Hollywood they're going to be muz­Rosenberg, who was a reg­schedule of major net­are not as reliant on resid­zled," he said. ular on the TV series "LA works, among other areas. uals from DVDs and other He has visited the New Law" and "The Guardian," Rosenberg's agenda mir­technology and are less York and Miami branches and is married to "CSI" star rors that of the newly elect­inclined to endure a in recent weeks and plans Marg Helgenberger. ed president of the Writers lengthy, costly strike over on visiting other locals in 
"I think he's capable of Guild of America, west. the issue. Those actors also the hope of ereating a morn better things," Christie said. Patrie Verrone also ran on fear Los Angeles-based unified front for upcoming With 120,000 members, a promise to get tougher members, who control the contract talks. 

Car wheel maker files bankruptcy 
Associared Press 

that no new business would be given and all beneJit programs will c:ontinuo 
GAS CITY, Ind. -An auto parts to Amcast and existing programs uninterrupted," said Hiehard A. supplier has filed for bankruptcy for would be migrated away from Amcast . Lindenmuth, Amcast interim chief the seeond time in a year, citing a loss in the eoming months." executive of'fieer. "We havn funding of business from General Motors Corp. Amcast, based in the northeastern arrangements in place with our exist­
Ameast Industrial expeeted new and Indiana town of Fremont, employs 727 ing lenders to continun operations continued ousiness from GM -the workers at plants in Fremont, during the bankruptcy ease. Wcl hope source of about 80 percent of Ameast's Franklin and Gas City. The company to conclude the process as promptly as revenue -after it reorganized and makes aluminum wheels for ears and possible." nmnrgnd from its l'irst Chapter 11 trucks and aluminum castings used for In an attempt to rPstorP its own bankruptey filing last summer, accord­automobile suspensions, bntkes and profitability, CM recently announred ing to documents J'ilnd Thursday in steering. that it would enase produditm at 12 
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Indianapolis. The bankruptcy filing allows Am1~ast fac:ilities within the nnxt two years and 
"Nnither of those assumptions has to continue doing businnss while Clliminate :~o.ooo jobs. provnn to be tnw," Ameast officials rosolving its issues with GM, company GM oflkials WCWC' aware ol' Amrast's said in court documents. "Not only has ollkials said in a news rolnase. bankruptcy filing, hut would not rom­
CM cut back on existing programs in "In thn mnantinu;, nmploynns will bn nwnt on any loss of husinC'ss, said Tom some areas. but has also told Amcast paid tlwir normal wages and bonusns II ill, a spokesman filr the automakPr. 

page 8 The Observer + HOLIDAY NEWS Monday, December 5, 2005 
Hotneowners hand holiday decorating over to contractors 
Time-consuming task offestively furnishing, decorating homes proves too much for elderly, creatively challenged 
not able to do what they do as
Associated Press 

well as they can do it." 
Lucas Tree is a franchisee for 
PORTLAND, Maine-The last Christmas Decor Inc., a Texas­thing John Gendron wants to do based company with 375 fran­during the holidays is climb high chises in 48 states and Canada on his steep-pitched roof to hang that will put up holiday decora­a wreath from his chimney. tions for 40,000 customers this 
These days, he doesn't have to. year, according to Christmas Instead, he hires a contractor to Decor marketing director put one wreath on his chimney Brandon Stephens. The company and two others high on the has been adding 30 to 40 fran­house, and to hang Christmas chises and 5,000 to 6,000 cus­lights on his home and in the tomers a year, he said. crabapple trees in his front yard. For a price, the eompany will 
Tens of thousands of design a Christmas display, install Americans this year will do the the lights and deeorations, take same. them down after the holidays and 
Short on time, leery of ladders store them until the next year. and lacking expertise for some­The average initial cost is $1,500, times-elaborate lighting displays, with the cost going down in sub­homeowners are opening their sequent years because the com­wallets and hiring others do the mercial-grade lights already have work. been purchased. 
This is the third year that In Maine, Lucas Tree will put Gendron has hired Lucas Tree up lights, wreaths, silhouetted Experts, a Portland tree service Santas and other decorations on company that installs Christmas about 50 homes and businesses lighting and decorations for for prices ranging from $500 to homeowners and businesses dur­$10,000. Gendron declined to ing the holiday season. reveal what he paid, other than have the time or the ability to do examines the link between aes­Brite Ideas Decorating Inc., a 
When it gets closer to to call it a "good value for the some of the things that we can thetic pleasures and American national Christmas decoration Christmas, Gendron and his fami­money." d0." commerce and culture. installation company based in ly will trim indoor and outdoor Customers include working Hiring people to hang lights Many people who hire contrac­Omaha, Neb., says its distributors trees for the festivity and pleas­couples who have little spare was once considered something tors to install Christmas decora­will decorate more than 23,000 ure of it, while also enjoying the time and older folks who don't only the wealthy could afford. tions could be described as homes this year -up from just lights and wreaths put up by want to climb ladders, said Chuek But with the eost of lights going upper-middle class who simply over 1,000 five years ago. Lucas Tree. Cotton of Lueas Tree. Others down and companies able to want nice-looking holiday dis­Customers include tennis player 
'These people are professionals don't have the skills or the equip­install them in an efficient man­plays, she said. Andre Agassi, country singer at what they do, much like we're ment needed to put up intricate ner, the jobs are no longer "Their time is worth more than Travis Tritt, boxer Evander professionals at what we do," displays. reserved just for the rich, said their money," Postrel said. "And Holyfield and basketball player said Gendron, who owns a com­"It's more a convenience than Virginia Postrel, author of "The ifyou don't have a giant mansion, Grant Hill, said Reed Nyffeler, mercial'real estate firm. "We're anything," he said. "They don't Substance of Style," a book that it's not that expensive of a job." national sales director. 

Nontraditional ornaments adorn national Christmas tree 
First Lady chooses to substitute fresh flowers for ornaments to keep with 'All Things Bright and Beautiful' theme 

Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The White House is experimenting with a nontraditional Christmas tree decoration this year -labo­ratory test tubes. 
As part of the "All Things Bright and Beautiful" theme seleeted for the 2005 holiday season, first lady Laura Bush came up with the idea of dec­
orating Christmas trees with fresh flowers. 
That left White House Chief Florist Nancy Clarke with the problem of keeping all those roses, lilies and azaleas prop­erly hydrated. 
"One of my suggestions was that we take a test tube, a regular test tube from any kind of lab and wrap it with wire," Clarke said. "We could 
AP 
fill it up with water and actu­ally make a Christmas orna­ment and still give our flow­ers a water source." 
It worked, and on Wednesday, when Bush pre­sented 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue's holiday decorations, flower-bedecked Christmas trees stood in the State Floor rooms. 
The centerpiece, Bush said, is the official White House Christmas tree, a 18 1/2-foot Fraser fir adorned white lilies, crystal ornaments and white Christmas lights. The tree is so tall the Blue Room's chandelier had to be removed. 
"I think it is one of the most beautiful Christmas trees I've ever seen," Bush said. 
Wearing a Carolina Herrera two-piece suit -what she called "her new red suit" ­she also presented simple one-color bouquets of tulips that grazed mantels, and box­wood garlands with gold trim that adorned mirrors. Wreaths with gold-trimmed lime sashes hung in windows and fresh tangerines or pears played prominent roles in table centerpieces. 

Bush said they deliberately took a simpler approach to the decorations, holiday cui­sine and the official Christmas card to highlight the elegance of the official residence. 
"W~ used natural and real flowers, fruits and garlands to show how beautiful nature is," she said. 
The natural theme could be seen in the holiday food 

UNIVERSITY 
~r·mw~mmm;.>;~~~..M'~ 
OUTFITTERSTM 
the campus store off campus"" 
6ent disc0 

f/.J'I<vv v') -bowl merchandise* ~ -charlie1 
-Jerse_ys -sweatshirts -steins 

all at a reasona 
officially licen~ed 
•bowl merchandise available week of I 2-5 
located in the Martin's Supermarket Pl.aza l block east of Turtle Creek Apartments 
243-4197 
choices as well. Samples of the cuisine to be served at upcoming parties included cheese from Vermont and Minnesota, Virginia ham and traditional fruit cake and apple cobbler. 
Straying from the simplicity, however, was an enormous and elaborate gingerbread White House, made by White House pastry chef Thaddeus De Bois. 

......--------------------------------~----~-­
Monday, December 5, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 




~ 
' 
Ill 
Are you thinking about. • • 
• 
Med School Mock Interviews 

• 
Resume reviews.for applications 

• 
Dossier services 




Working for 
oo
a non­
profit? 

• 
Winter Career and Internship Fair 

• 
Idealist.org 


• 
Non-profit job post­ings on Go Irish 

• 
Internship Exchange 

• 
Hot Internships Newsletter 

• 
Local Internship Posting.'} 




Then think Career Center 
See how we can help! 
..­

The Career Center 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

• 
On campus interviews 

• 
Employer if?fo nights 

• 
GolRISH database 


Looking for job options closer to your hometown? 
• 
City tours 

• 
Careersearch 


~• Job Search Work­shops 
• Vault.con1 

• 
Career Networking 

• 
Job Shadovving 


THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, December 5, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINFSS MANAGER Par Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 

ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala 
SAJNT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROll.ERl Jim Kirihara 

WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu . SAINT MARY'S DESK smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (57 4) 631-8839 
oBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the srudents of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither insrirurion. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content; 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include comact information. 
{)Jtestions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tht Ol.icnoot (USPS 599 2-4000) is pu'"i<hed Mond•t through l'ti&y '""P' d.iln~ cam and vacatic!l periods. AsuM::ription ro. The Observer 1.s $100 far one academ.ir.; yc:at; $55 for one Sdtlc:stcr. 
The ~ls publishOO -at:-i>OSTMASTER 

024 South Din!rl~ Hall Send addr~ Wrtcctiuiu ta: 
Natrc O;~.me, IN 46556-0n9 ThcObscr-..er 
I\:riudicd pottage p:~id :~t Nottc Dame 1!0. Boxn~ 

and addirional mailing.offict:S. 024 Soud1 Dining Hall 
Notre Oame,lN 46556-0779 
The Oh~rvcr is a member ofthe Aawciatcd Pms. All rcprod~1etion right~ arc r~rvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports Nicole Zook Bobby Griffin Kelly Meehan Chris Khorey 
Laura Jason Galvin Baumgartner Scene Viewpoint Molly Griffin 
Laura Sonn Graphics Graham Ebetsch 

Down with Christmas 
The perceptive eyes of Bill O'Reilly and the Reverend Jerry Falwell have once again foiled the liberal plot to sabotage the "Christmas" season, and it looks as ifonce again my fellow left-wingers and I will 
have no choice but to set aside our pagan secularism and wor­ship the coming of the "Savior" this December. 
As many of you may have heard, Falwell recently launched his "Friend or Foe of 

Joey
Christmas Campaign" 
Falco
to determine, it seems, who will be 
Forty ounces
getting lumps of coal 
to Falco

in their stockings and who will be the lucky few waking up Christmas morning to find a tree-full of those little green Bibles that those creepy men shove in your face out­side of LaFortune. In actuality, Falwell is attempting to fight back against the major corporations and local government bodies who have boldly chosen to take a shot at 
J.C. this December by publicly using the term "Happy Holidays" instead of "Merry Christmas." 
Falwell's campaign is already off to a frighteningly fast start. Last Thursday, for instance, Boston Mayor Thomas Menino was pressured to change the name of the city's official seasonal evergreen from the "Holiday Tree" to the "Christmas Tree." Yes, even in America's Mecca of tea par­ties and liberalism, Jesus made his return, presumably prompting thousands of Democrats to flee the city in search of sec­ular shelter elsewhere. Senator Ted Kennedy, one of the leaders of the Christ­Killing Democratic Catholics Movement, was rumored to have expressed his dis­gust by getting plastered, climbing the "Holiday Tree" and defiantly trying to pass his oversized head off as a big red orna­ment for the remainder of the holiday sea­son. 
The fight then moved to Capitol Hill, where Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert ordered that the "Capitol Holiday Tree" be renamed the "Capitol Christmas Tree." Rumor has it that Senator Joseph Iieberman, an insolent member of the religion that killed Jesus, responded to this change by igniting eight different parts of his body on the Senate floor in order to create the "Capitol Chanukah Menorah." 
In the retail market, Wal-Mart, Lowe's and Target have all come under fire from conservative Christian groups for taking the Christ out of Christmas. Target, for instance, a well-documented bastion for secular shoppers, boldly chose not to men­tion the word "Christmas" in its advertis­ing this year. In response, 600,000 evan­gelicals trying to get onto Santa's "nice" list signed a petition to boycott the store. 
As Bill O'Reilly has statl;ld in defense of this "Pro-Jesus" holiday movement, "The town square is there to reflect the nature of the country, [and] 85 percent of the country is Christian." Now, call me a stat­loving Jesus-hater, but accorcting to the 
U.S. Census Bureau, only 77 percent of Americans are Christian. (For anyone struggling in the math department, this means that a whopping 23 percent of Americans will one day burn in the fiery chasms of Hell.) 
Yes, this is a tragic day for secularism. 
For years, we Democrats have battled to remove any glimmer of Jesus' presence from daily life in the United States. Why should we wish you a merry Christmas when we can stick it to the Son of God and wish you a season's greeting? Why rock around the Christmas tree when we can take a jab at the big guy in the sky and rock around the holiday tree? Why kiss 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A life to remember 
Dear Notre Dame, 

On Nov. 7, our pal Matt Garber committed suicide. 
You might not have talked to Matt, but you might rec­ognize him. He was the guy in the pink sweater, eating cookies at Waddick's. He had a ponytail and square black glasses. He rode a bike, slept on South Quad benches, wrote like Borges and made movies like neon static and fireworks. He might have audited one of your classes. 
Matt enrolled at Notre Dame in the fall of 2002. In­between then and now, he went to the University of Chicago, worked in a bakery, went fishing and became very, very sad. This fall, he returned to the Notre Dame campus to reconnect and reapply. I last saw him in a Dairy Queen parking lot. He was eating a Blizzard. 
Bottom line: Matt was an intense and lovely person. If you, like me, are missing him, then I am sorry; I am also sorry if you did not know him. Please take this let­ter as my equivalent of putting his name in lights across South Quad, and amidst the craziness that is a Notre Dame December, say it to yourself a few times: "we 
miss you, Matt Garber." Thank you. 
Mairead Case senior Off-campus Dec. l 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Ifone speaks or acts with a cruel mind, misery follows, as the cart follows the horse ... Ifone speaks or acts with a pure mind, happiness follows, as a shadow follows its source." 
the Dhammapada 
someone under the mistletoe when you 
can fight back against the Bible and have 
premarital sex under it? 
You must remember, of course, that it's not like the Democratic Party gives a damn about the 23 percent of Americans who choose not to celebrate Christmas ­like the five million-plus American Jews who celebrate Chanukah. Word has it that Adam Sandler invented that goofY candle holiday a few years ago to promote some song on Saturday Night live. Kwanzaa? We liberals only pay lip service to that one to keep Jesse Jackson from running away with our entrenched African-American voting bloc. And don't even get me started with the many Hindus, Muslims and Buddhists residing in the United States. (It's not like their minority vote counts on Christian Hill ... I mean Capitol Hill, any­way.) 
The real reason we push for "Holiday Trees" and "Season's Greetings" is because we are attempting to kill God. We are simply jealous and embittered because in both 2000 and 2004, the Almighty pub­licly endorsed George W. Bush for presi­dent and helped steal the election from us. So now we're angry-at George and at God. (But really, is there a difference?) 
Now, it's our turn to fight back. We're going to steal Christmas for good this year, and unlike that soft, mushy, God-fearing Grinch, were not going to give any of it back in the end. 
And why is that? Because we're Democrats -proudly endorsed by Satan since 1932. 
Joey Falco is a junior American Studies major. His column appears very other Monday. He can be contacted at ifalco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
World AIDS awareness 
I eagerly anticipated the release of the movie "Rent" all year. I particularly enjoy the music and the theme of love and seizing the day. But, what I failed to grasp, even with the songs resounding in my head was the most impor­tant underlying theme: the severity and bitter reality of the AIDS epidemic. 
Some movie reviews were adament that "Rent" might not appeal to modern audi­ences because they couldn't relate to the AIDS problem faced by the United States in the '80s and '90s. I couldn't disagree more. Certainly AIDS awareness has increased in the United States, but today more than ever, AIDS and HIV are becoming ever more daunting problems in the world. Simply because we don't talk about the problem of AIDS or don't encounter it daily doesn't mean it doesn't exist. 
World AIDS day certainly brought to light for me the epidemic which humanity is facing. The daunting facts and statistics of the number of people infected with the disease was really enlighten­ing, and I'd like to give a hand to all those who partook in the Notre Dame project. 
"Rent" is only a popular movie. The songs are catchy and its themes are motivating, but hopefully audiences will realize that there is a greater problem which does exist here and now. World AIDS day sent a message that I found similar to the moral of "Rent": we are all connected in this world, and we must help one another to live each day. 
Katie McAnany freshman Breen-Phillips hall Dec. I 
ISubmit aLetter I 
"I am not in this world to live up to other
i J' ~ ~}. , . ; i ?..:. =.. . .. • . I 
people's expectations, nor do I feel that the world must live up to mine."
1to the Ed1tor at i Fritz Perls psychoanalyst
:! www.ndsmcobs.erver.com r 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
.~ 
f

teachings of the Buddha 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Monday, December 5, 2005 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Vatican declaration spurs discussion 
Document carries dire consequences 
I want to thank my r.ollnague Andy otherwise, a commitment to celibaey would B1~udwl liw his compassionate, rnason1~d sutliee. The equation of predilection to n~sponsn to the Vatican's new instruetion aetual aet has dangerous implications lbr n•garding homosexuality and thn clergy. I all Catholies. The inclination to sin, eom­apologizn if my own anger and pain about mon to all and part of our imperli~ction, tlw donunent detract from the larger should never be squarnd with sin itself lest poinL-; I attmnpt to make. we abandon the hope li>r living in a Christ­
Always bmLr in mind that when Cod sur­like way by overcoming the indination to vPyPd his ITPation. he dmmwd it good. not sin to instead act with love and justice. pPrli•ct. Wn must rPcognizn tlw value of What those who condemn homosexuality othPrs despite any defidendes. fail to realize is that it is.not only or even 
Norw of tho elli~ds of this document have primarily about sex, just as heterosexual only tht~oretkal ramilkations. It harms tho attraction is not. To be momentarily flip­lksh and borws of' Christ's Mystical Body, pant, if attraction was primarily about sex, gay and straight, lay and ordained. This tweryone would be having a lot more of it. donmwnt rmuh~rs thn Catholk Church less If it worn only about sex, I'm sun~ more ('lltholic. less mmp<L<;sionatn and less gays and lesbians could reduee it to a ( :hristian. Furtlwrmorn, it will exac1~rbate "transitory problem" by fullilling their emo­tho priPst shortage at a time whnn so many tional nends with fhnnds and family. A non­Catholics lack the nourishnwnt provided by normative attraction does not 1:onstitute an a communal ~~PIPiwation of the I \ucharist. "all'netivo immaturity" that predudns nor­
It aliemLtes not only gay and lnsbian mal relational interactions. In l'aet, in my ( :atholks but thnir lowd ones as well. who oxpnricnee and that of every other gay per­haw 1wrhaps struggled but succendnd in son I know, the stilling of our sexuality a('('Ppting thPir homosexual loved one as a through denial, self-loathing, an attempt to good pPrson in whom tim Spirit is active. A-. Pntfll' stmight relationships or a spiritually a gay Catholic, I lind it dillkult to coneeiv1~ a unsatisfying celibacy causes much more place li1r myself that maintains any som­dysfunction in relationships or all typns blancl' of intPIIndual, spiritual or emotional than dons admitted homosexuality. The intP).,rrity; I sne a dismissal of my ability to "trial" of homosnxuality comes !rom the achiev1~ a humane communion with my fel­filar of reprobation or rejection by others, low per-sons and with Christ. Th1~ Vatican to which thn Church contributes under the IHL<; l'urthPr marginalizPCI an already mar­pretext of stabilizing thn priesthood. Once ginalized ).,rroup by pandPring to people's we eome to terms with our own sexuality limrs and stereotypns. This document and rmnembor that we are still children of anwunL-; to a pn•dation upon those men God, we can see oursolves as <;od dolls: with whom I sharn a uniqun emotional good, imperfect but unquestionably good. commiseration and thus spnak more ellhc­tivdy to my spiritual struggle. It attempl'> to E.S.Emme amputatn part of the Mystical Body. graduate student 
Wn mnnot p!L<;S this position oil' as a Off-campus "hatl~-thn-sin-ltlve-thfl-sinnnr" nxhortati1m; Dec.! 
Close reading elicits positive response 
I write in response to Andy Buechel's who deal with same sex attrmtions may negativn conclusion on the Vatiean doeu­act upon their lilelings and may disrngard ment on homosexuals and seminaries. I Christ's call to rhastity. Heligious men and think Buechel, in large part. is a victim of' women must not only r1~spnet the Chun~h's his own feelings. By not earol'ully examin­tnachings but also bP a role model li1r the ing the dowment and by relying on P.mo­laity. Those religious who do not rnspm:t tions ratl1er than thflologieal fad, Buechel the Church's tnaching on homosexuality misinterpreted the document which, I are not able to fulfill thoir duties as holy believe, is a very necessary step in the rec­mnn and women. onciliation between the ehurch and its fail­So, should men and women with same ings in dealing with the sex abuse erisis. sex attraetions be etmcot·twd about bPing 
Buechel asserts that any man or woman d1mind lloly Orders'? II' they Iilliow the who has homosexual tendendes will bf~ Church's toaehing, which is very dnat· and banned from entry into a Roman Catholic Biblically b<Lo;nd (sen Paul's letters to tlw seminary. In reality. though, this assertion Corinthians, Homans and to Timothy), thPy is just plain wrong, and BuechP.Ilails to toll have no reason to bl' rwrvous, and I the whole story. Tho dowment states that believe I am a grnat example of this. I plan the Church "mav not admit to the semi­to enter a Catholic seminary at sonw point nary and IIoly Clrders those who practice after ~-,rraduating, and despite tlw litct that homosexuality, show profoundly deep­I deal with same-sox attractions, I haw no rooted homosexual tendencies, or support mason to belinve that I will haw any di!li­the so-ealled gay culture." rulties in bo1·oming a priest lweausn I till­
Though the phrase "show prolilundly low the Chun~h's teachings and rail to deep-rooted homosexual tendencies" chastity. seems vague, the phrases that precede In reality, then. the dm:ument makPs it and f()llow it clarify any vagueness that vory clear-those mPn and womPn who may seem to exist. The document is not at follow Catholie teaching and live dHL<;tP all unsympathetic to those men and lives, all other things nqual. may bl' gmnt­women who have same sex attractions­nd Holy Ordnrs. Thosn who do not, quite the contrary. llowever, it L'> unsym­whether homosexual or hetnrosnxual. pathetie to those men and women who fail probably arn not lit to roprnsnnt thn to observe the Church's teaching on the Catholic Church anyway. I oneouraw~ you matter, as well as those who !'ail to live to road tho document li1r yourself. A good ehaste lives, and rightly so. translation can be limnd at the Catholic 
With this in mind, I believe that thfl doc­World News websitn. and allnr careful ument is right on tl1e money-those men nxamination, I bnlievn that you will havn a and women who disregard the Church's positive pnrcoption of thn donunnnt. teaching on homosexuality and chastity will encounter problems in "relating with Christian Hoeffel men and women." It is wrong, and hereti­junior cal, in the eyes of the Church, to teach that St. Edwanl's hall it is morally correet that men and women Dec. 1 
Breaking the bread? 'Gay? Fine by Me' shirts at Mass 
In tlw Doc. 1 Obsnrver, Andy Bueehel romnumt1~d on tlw Instruction rnlecL-.nd in Homo Concerning the Criteria for the Disi~Prnrnnnt of Vocations with Hngard to I'Prsons with I lornosexua! llmcllmdes in ViPW of Uwir Admission to tho Smninary and to lloly Ordnrs. Andy mrrnetly pointnd out that. "this dol~un11mt is, and I say this with no small amount of shamo <L<; a ( :atholk and a theologian-in-training, a mmplntn ban on homosexual men to the priosthood of tlw Catholic Church, rngard­loss of thnir commitment to eolibaey." A-; a lidlow tlwologian. I sharn Andy's conviction that this documont is protilUJHIIy damaging to tho integrity of the Church. 
For this re<L<;on, I attendnd M<L<;S Sunday with an inlilflnal ~-,rroup of a doznn studenl-; to pray li1r the priest-; who will bn lim:nd into silnn1:n and shamn, for tho gay, lesbian, hisnxual and transgnndonid Catholies who will rnceivn yet another <L<;sault on their dig­nity IL<; children of Cod and li1r tho eonver­sion and rnpentancP of the Vatkan authori­ties who again am <L<;serting their raw pownr ov1w us with v11ry littln religious rolwronee or moral intngrity to back it up. Praying and rneniving the sacrament togntlu~r. we worn those orange T-shirL<> that say "Gay'? Fine by Mo." 
This w<L<; not a media stunt or a "protest." I havn no desire to petition the Vatiean and IL<;k that thny dialogue morn with tho laity, that they let us "express our­selves" <L<; individuals. This is not about gaining thf1 liboral, middlo-dass right to "partidpatn" in dndsion-making. Thosn of us who live under the reign of the lib1mtl statn know wdl enough that protnst polities don't work; thoy amount to littln more than tH~gging the authorities for a handout. a modicum of respnet, a reform that only solidi/ins their authoritarian power over us. No, I am not a protnstant reformer. 
On tho contrary, my dndsion to wnar that 
T-shirt to mass was an outgrowth of my faith in the Incarnation of God in the holy sacramenl'>. It W<L'> an nxtension of the praetiee of tho Eucharistic mnal. Some may say that we were being overly divisive, that our "politidzation" of the Mass crnatnd dangerous divisions within the body of Christ. But tho message we carried on our bodies W<L<; one of communion. We are the ones who are calling li>r an end to the oppressions that divide the people of God and make a mockery of Christian lilllow­ship. The ones who sew division are the ehurch authorities who seem to be saying that God's gratuitous gift of grace is in faet limited to those who the Magisterium chooses based on their own politieal and psoudo-sdontilic selection eritnria lor who can be deemed "afl'eetively mature." As if the Incarnation of God in the person of Jesus Christ and the saeraments transforms only some aspeets of humanity, leaving our deepest desires suspeet. As if the persist­once of what the Vatican calls "homosexual tendencies" marks some people essentially and biologieally with an "intrinsic disorder." A<> if the Vatican still really bPJieves below all their sophisticated Thomistie rhetorie that these gay fi.>lks are miscreanl-;, bearing in their bodies flaws in ereated human nature that cannot exist in a world ordered by a Logieal God. 
Abominations. Like the lepers, the demo­niaes and the hemorrhaging women, they must bll shoved aside, out of the temple and into the doset, lest the neat, tidy categories of our theological science be thrown into question. To me, this sounds more like the rigid biologism of 19th century proto­eugonic seientisl'> than the transgrnssive, boundary-crossing, dappled and irreducible gospol of Jesus Christ who broke all of his culture's taboos to fbrm a eommunion table with those deemed sick, sinful and disor­derly by the self-righteous religious authori­ties of his time. 
Some may accuse us of degrading and profaning the Eueharist by making it a politieal event. But this presupposes that politics is inherently vulgar and that the saeramenL'> have nothing to do with the real world. It presupposes the worst kind of dualism, an iron curtain defending the Altar from tho messy crowds of the street'>. This common liberal dualistie mindsnt teaches that in the realm of polities, humans are just like barnyard animals that need to be fed, watered and given their shots by a benevolent state. Thnn they can go to Church to liB that "other side" of themselves -they can go to Mass to "liB up" on graeo. In this divided world, political life is shorn of its mystery; it is no longer a site of encounter with the Incarnate Word. Politics is nothing but bread and violence, so the Eucharistic: host must be fi>rcod to transeend this profane sphere of power and basic needs. In short, it must beeome a magie ritual to a God who, despite his life, death and rosurreetion on this Earth, is still supposed to hide his face in shame from our everyday existence. 
No, we reject this ruthless division between broad and Bread, wine and Wine, politics and Communion. For Jesus, the task of announeing good news to the poor, freedom to the eaptivos and the justiee of the Kingdom was inseparable from the sac­rilke of hL-; body and blood for the forgive­ness of our sins. His institution of the Eucharist was not a separate act from his washing of the disciples' feet, where he warned his apostles against their tempta­tion to beeome an elitn dass above society and remindfld them that the theologian's world of preaehing tho gospel cannot be separate from the servant's world of labor and feet-washing. Yet this is exactly what the Magisterium has done. It has separated what God wanted mixed and has defined itsnlf as the purn philosophical and tlwolog­ieal guardians who howlr abovo this world or bodies supposedly dngradnd by work and polities. judging from on high who is "atli~e­tivflly immature" and who is "intrinsically disordered." 
The response we took this Sunday w<L<; simple: we celebrated the Eucharist in all of il'> scandal and all of il-. queer communion. For the Eucharist il-;nlf is the most radical of signs; it crossns the sacrnd and tho politi­cal, tho salvitk and the evnryday, tlw holy and the physical, the Many and thn Otw. And in prnparation, at the height of thn Mass, I. a young man who may or may not have "homosexual tendendes" huggnd another young man who may or may not have "homosexual tendnndes" in thn explicitly Christian, boundary-erossing sign ofpoaee. 
In this sea'>on of Advnnt, wn aro 1~allnd to remember and prnparn li1r history's ulti­mate act of crossing: tlw dothing of Cod in human flesh, in tho womb of a yd-unmar­ried peasant woman. Tho lloly Family of tho Bethlehem manger is hardly the modn! for modern hnterosoxual family valuns. II' anything, it resmnbles tho most subvnrsivn side of the mon<L<;tie tradition -a woman who "know no man" serves <L<; prinst a-. the sacramental incarnation occurs in her womb. Far /rom maintaining tho rigiditins of Platonic ordor in family life and sacra­mental praetke, thn Advnnt soa'ion should be full of valleys getting raised and moun­tains lowernd, the world transgrnssnd and turned upsid!~ down by the scandal of' tho eoming Inearnation. What better way to praetiee Advnnt than to go to ma-;s and pray for the liberation of queer li>lks? 
Matthew Hamilton gmduatc student O'Ham-Gr•ce Dec.4 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 12 
Monday, December 5, 2005 
CONCERT REVIEW 
'Better' than ever 
Better Than Ezra returns to campus after three years with same talent, new material 


seriously talented but who don't takeBy CHRIS McGRADY themselves too seriously.
Assistant Scene Ediror 
Better Than Ezra continually joked 
around on stage, mentioning numerous 
After several years out of the national times that "LSU-Notre Dame would be a spotlight, Better Than Ezra is back. great match up in the Sugar Bowl." This Although not on top of the charts quite joke stems from the fact that several of yet, the New Orleans-based band is the band's members went to Louisiana proving that it has the musical ability, State University. the staying power and the charisma to One detriment to the concert was the make a run for the top. venue. Stepan Center is unfortunately 
Better Than Ezra played to a packed one of the only places on campus avail­house Friday night. True able to host a concert the to the band's old form, size of the one on Friday. The it played a good show, acoustics in Stepan Center
True to the band's 
proving to everyone are terrible. The opening act, there that the band had old form, it played Marking Twain, was talent­not lost anything with a good show, prov-ed, but from the back of the age. Stepan Center, the group's
ing to everyone
The group opened with lyrics were inaudible. The "Burned," the first song there that the distorted guitar cut into the from the band's most band had not lost lyrics and caused each of the recent CD "Before the group's songs to sound the
anything with age.
Robots." This high-ener­same. Nonetheless, Marking gy ballad that show-Twain put on a good show eased Kevin Griffin's and engaged the audience. powerful lyrics showed the audience However, as it should be, the headlining that the band meant business. In this act stole the show. lies the true beauty of Better Than Ezra Better Than Ezra played both new -they are serious musicians who are songs and hits from previous albums. 
Much to the crowd's delight, Griffin climb the drum stand and finish the called out, "We aren't like some bands song. Much to the crowd's (and no doubt that will only play their new songs. We the band's) amazement, the student are going to play everything!" These then tore into a solo that rivaled any­were encouraging words and a far cry thing Griffin had played all night. After from many bands today that use concert the song, the student was led back to his tours solely to promote recent albums. seat and was greeted there by thunder-
Better Than Ezra gave off ous applause. the feeling that the group The only mistake Better wasn't just in existence to Than Ezra made was one
In this lies the 
make money. They seemed of redundancy. The band
beauty ofBetter
to enjoy playing and mak­never seemed to mix it ing music and had a than Ezra -they up. There were no jam tremendous stage presence. are serious sessions of any kind, no Perhaps the highlight of acoustic sets and only a
musicians who are
the concert was during very brief encore. "This Time of Year," a song seriously talented Overall, the concert from the 1995 release but who don't take was a success. Part of the "Deluxe." Halfway through Student Union Board's
themselves too
the song, Griffin called into job is to bring big name the crowd for someone to seriously. bands to campus, and come up on stage and play that is exactly what the guitar part to the song, Better Than Ezra is. making clear that this person would Although perhaps not as familiar to stu­already have to know the song. dents as some other bands, Better Than 
A student was pulled out of the crowd Ezra put on a good show and proved and was outfitted with Griffin's gold Les that they will again ascend to greatness. Paul guitar. After some directions from Griffin, the student played along with Contact Chris McGrady at the song before being instructed to cmcgradl@nd.edu 


Better Than Ezra was founded in 1987 by guitarist and vocalist Kevin Griffin, The band includes vocalist and guitarist Kevin Griffin, bassist Tom Drummond left, when he and other members were students at Louisiana State University. and drummer Travis McNabb. The band has changed lineups several times. 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE .. 
Monday, December 5, 2005 
page 13 
SHOW REVIEW 
Dance Company shows rhythm, 'Soul' 

'Messiah' combines great music, performances 
By LIZ BYRUM 
A~sistanr Scene Editor 
For sueh a nnw group on campus, the l>ar11:n Company of' Notre Dame has eol­lndnd a lot of' talent. On Thursday and Friday night, this tahmt was showcased in a pnrf'ormanen titled "Soul," whieh was prnsPntnd by thn eompany in Washington llall. 
Tlw l>am:e Company of' Notre Dame. which is cornprisml of' ovnr 50 membnrs, has only hnon in existnnee !'or three somes­tnrs. It n~nmtly split into two distinet com­panies, ralfl'(f the Bltw and the Gold. It is nntin~ly student-run and is eurrnntly led by pn~sicl«mt. Ashley l.uechesn. A'i was evident in tlw perf'ormances this wnekend, thn dancers put many hours of' time and nll'ort into dances, which range from hip-hop and lyrit:alto jazz and ballet. 
"We started preparations l'or the show during tlw sumrnnr, figuring out the theme and planning dances. Most of' the choreog­raphy happnnnd ovnr the summer," Maria luppa, a sophomorn Gold Company mem­hnr, said. 
Tlw show bollt opened and dosed with p1~rfiwmam:ns by thn entin~ company, and tlw Gold and Blue Companins were brought togdher !'or other pinces including "Numb" by .Jay-Z and Linkin Park, as well as "Oh Lord, Please Don't Let Me Be Misunderstood" by Santana Esmeralda. 
The mix of' musie to which the group danced allowed various membnrs to show oil" thnir particular stren!,>i.hs. In "Fever," which was chornographed by Gold Company mnmbnr Stephanie Kern, a group of five dancers brought together 
CONCERT REVIEW 
By MICHELLE FORDICE 
Scene: Writer 
Tlw l.nighton Concert Ilall in the Marie 1'. DeBartolo Center f'or the Performing Arts fillnd with the sounds of' "Hallelujah" and "Hosanna" on Friday and Saturday night as the University of Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra present­nd tlwir annual performance of Handel's "Mnssiah." 
With its stunning music and triumphant atmosphnre of' eolnbration, Handel's "Messiah" is one of' thn most long-lived and beloved Christmas traditions. The Univnrsity of' Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra did not fail to inspirn with their performance of this wonderful pinen. 
llandel's "Mnssiah" is a fantastic per­formance fi1r every audience membor. Its nlngant melody is emphasized by its strong f'on1s on choir, soloists and orches­tnt. It benefits from using all of these ele­nwnts instead of just focusing on one. Familiarity also makes it a great p11rform­anen f'or frnqunnt attendees of' dassieal musical performances. Likewise, it is just as nnjoyabln for new audience members. 
Tho libretto of' "Messiah" eomes prima­rily from the Church of England's "Book of Common l'raynr" and is in English, whieh allows for nasy understanding. Nnarly nvnryone has heard the popular "llallnlujah" chorus at least once. Tlw univPrsal appeal of "Messiah" is one of' llw best masons for its longnvity. 
Composnd circa 1741, Handel's "Messiah" has been rewritten and rnarranged on numerous occasions and by many different musicians, including Handel and Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, and oftnn is changed each time it is per­formed. 
Director Alexander Blachly eontinues this tradition, selecting only certain pieces of' "Mossiah" to perform. lie chose for his choir to sing primarily Part I, which focuses on texts about the prophe­cy of' and birth of Jesus Christ, and Part II, which f'ocuses on texts about Jesus Christ's sacrifice and resurrection. lie also included two numbers from Part III, which focuses on writings about general resurrection, and ended with the most famous section of "Messiah," tho "Hallelujah" chorus. 
Commenting on the Christian themes in "Messiah," Blachley said, "for anyone who was raisnd in the Christian tradition, Handel's musical settings of the familiar words of' scripture hav1~ an irresistibly reassuring efl'ect." 
The University of Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra's performance was a success. The orchestra and choir balanced each other throughout the show and gave a strong performance. Blachly showcased the talent of the Chorale by selecting eleven ditl'erent singers for the piece's various solos. All did a commend­able job with difficult solo parts. The Chorale and Chamber Orchestra man­aged to captivate their audience from the first measure until the last chord. 
Michael Suso, president of the Chorale, said, "To be able to perform such a mag­nificent piece of' music in an outstanding concert hall in front of' an enthusiastic audienee was extremely gratifying. I am thoroughly pleased with both perform-from both companies displayed dancing creativity and intertwined this with their 
ballet talents. 

The Gold Company, led by captain Kathy Nosek, showed their high level of experinnce with their emotional perform­ance to Joss Stone's "The Hight to be Wrong." 
One of' the most entertaining and mem­orablo pnrfimnances of the night was the Gold Company's dance to a medlny of' hip­hop songs titled "Ballin'." This includod pieens by Usher, Lil' Jon and Ludaeris, Missy Elliot and 'NSync. 
The members of' the Dancn Company are obviously tafentnd dancers, but the wide array of' eostumns worn throughout the show also proved that at least some of' the members are talented in others art forms as well. 
The Blue Company, led by eo-captain Marti Mull(m, closed out the first half' of the show to the song "Miami." Not only were the costum1~s creatively made out of cut-up Miami T-shirts. the dancers also put on an impressive performance with dance moves that looked like they belonged on a Miami dance floor. 
Frnshman Blue Company member Monalisa Icaza, who performed in "Miami," said she enjoys dandng to hip­hop and that "Miami" was f'un because "it was kind of' Latin as well." Icaza, who has been dancing ballet since she was three, said that the dance company "is also a way to make new friends" 
Fans of any genre of music would have been pleased with at least one perform­ance last weekend. Coldplay fans were no exception, as members of the Gold Company performed a beautiful dance 
..... 
.. 
CLAIRE The Notre Dame Chamber Orchestra and Chorale performed Handel's "Messiah" Friday and Saturday, a piece frequently performed during the Christmas season. 
choreographed by Meghan Winger to the band's song, "Politik." It was during this performance that the background talent in both costuming and lighting for the night was especially apparent. The colors of' both the costumes and the background lighting throughout the song corresponded perfectly with the mood the music set. 
The company even succeeded at getting the audience involved throughout the show. A number of dancers filled in the song changes by encouraging the audience to purchase roses for their favorite dancers during intermission, and even had the audiencn loosened up (literally) during the "snventh inning strnteh." 
The Dance Company of' Notre Damn is a grnat way for daneers to eontinun doing something they love during college. The great variety of music, ereative costuming and beautiful performances made "Soul" a very successful show. Whether someone is looking for a way to continue daneing, or just searching for entertainment for an evening, the Dance Company of Notre Dame is a groat place to look. 
Contact Liz Byrum at ebyrum@nd.edu 
ances and only hope that our audiences took·as much pleasure in listening to Handel's 'Messiah' as we did in perform­ing it." 
The University of Notre Dame Chorale is Notre Dame's official concert choir. Specializing in works that range from the Henaissance to the present, including pieces by Bach, Mozart, Schubert, Mendelssohn and Stravinsky, the Chorale's 55 voices have a yery strong, precise and beautiful sound. This sound eomplimented the intricacies and range of "Messiah" perfeetly. They can be heard again in both their concert and their tour in the spring. 
The University of Notrn Damn Chambnr Orchestra is a select ensemble of' students that performs both with the Chorale and independently in its own conenrts. Becausn there are only one or two instru­ments for eaeh part, the musician's an~ all very skilled. 
rrom thP opPning ovnrtum to the final "Hallelujah," the Notre I>arne Choral and Chamber Orchestra's performance of' Handel's "Messiah" was a wonderf'ul experinnc~n and a great beginning to the Christmas season. 
Contact Michelle Fordice at mfordice@nd.edu 
.. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, December 5, 2005 
NFL 


Indy stays unbeaten with 35-3 win over Titans 
Kansas City tops Denver in AFC West showdown; Dolphins overcome 20-point fourth quarter deficit to beat Bills 
Associated Press AFC South title and first-round to eight straight seasons with at bye in the playoffs. least 25 TD passes. 
INDIANAPOLIS The If the past few games are any Edgerrin James carried 28 Indianapolis Colts are making indication, that's only a matter times for 107 yards, becoming perfection look easier every of time. the third-fastest player in week. Indianapolis has won seven of league history to top 9,000 
Now they'll have a chance to its last nine by at least 17 yards. In 93 games, James has keep their historic quest going points, averaging more than 35 rushed for 9,067 yards. Eric in the playoffs, too. points. The Colts even routed Dickerson did it in 82 games; 
With the Triplets in sync and Tennessee on a day Manning Jim Brown did it in 88. the defense producing another threw only 17 passes, the sec­physically dominant perform­ond-fewest of his NFL career. Chiefs 31, Broncos 27 ance Sunday. Tennessee never He threw two passes in last With a little help from instant had a chance as the Colts rolled year's season finale at Denver. replay, the AFC West race sud­to a 35-3 victory to clinch a But the latest victory epito­denly got a lot tighter. playoff spot and remain the mized how Indy continues to The Kansas City Chiefs NFL's only unbeaten team. win -by overcoming anything received a favorable ruling 
"Anything that comes along opponents try. when they challenged the spot with winning, you accept it," On Sunday, the Titans (3-9) on a run that appeared to give two-time MVP Peyton Manning wanted to play keep-away. It Denver a first down near mid­said. didn't work. field on a fourth-and-1 play 
The Colts are the fifth team in Manning completed 13 of 17 with 2:01 left. league history to go 12-0, but passes for 187 yards and three Then the Chiefs (8-4) ran the must wait until next week at touchdowns, giving him a near­clock down to 3 seconds and Jacksonville for a chance to perfect passer-rating of 151.2 preserved a 31-27 victory that wrap up their third straight and extending his NFL record pulled them to within one game 
of the Broncos (9"3), who had won four in a row. 
Trent Green threw two touch­down passes and Larry Johnson rushed for 140 yards and two more scores, but one of the biggest plays was Mike Anderson's plunge into the right side of the line on fourth down. 
Officials on the field gave him a first down a couple of yards short of the 50. But coach Dick Dolphins' biggest comeback vic­Struggling Miami quarterback Vermeil threw the challenge tory since 1974. Gus Frerotte was forced to the flag and the officials overturned Chambers caught a lobbed 4-bench with a concussion in the the spot. yard pass from Sage Rosenfels third quarter, and Rosenfels 
When Denver got the ball on fourth down with 6 ·seconds directed fourth-quarter touch­back with 3 seconds left, Jake left, the last of three touch­down drives of 70, 49 and 73 Plummer -who threw two downs Miami scored in the final yards. costly interceptions -had time 11:35 Sunday to beat the "We really like for everyone to for one heave. It fell incom­Buffalo Bills 24-23. get their money's worth," coach plete. With the game up for grabs, Nick Saban joked. "You talk 
Plummer, who went 229 pass­Chambers curled into the end about playing 60 minutes, and es without an interception until zone and outmaneuvered cor­it's a cliche, but this was an the Dallas Cowboys got one last nerback Jabari Greer for his example of that today." week, was picked off by Kawika 15th reception of the game. Alas, only 2 5, 000 fans Mitchell on his first throw of the "It was a jump-ball situation," remained from the announced second half. He also threw an Chambers said. "You have to go crowd of 72,051 when the interception to Patrick Surtain up and get it." Dolphins began their final in the first half on fourth-and­Lee Evans caught three march with 1:51 left trailing 23­goal from the 4. -touchdown passes to put the 17. 
Bills ahead 21-0 less than 13 A catch by Chambers gave Dolphins 24, Bills 23 minutes into the game, and they Miami a first down at the 1 with 
Even in the late-afternoon led 23-3 in the final period. 50 seconds to go, but two shadows covering the end zone, "You can't play like the game incomplete passes, a penalty Chris Chambers was easy to was over, but maybe we played and a scramble by Rosenfels spot, leaping to make the recep­like the game was over," coach made it fourth down with the tion that capped the best day of Mike Mularkey said. "We didn't clock running and less than 30 his NFL career and the Miami finish the job." seconds left. 

The Observer accepts classifteds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Ani Difranco,Caesar Chavez,John  KRAMER PROPERTIES HOUSES  Stop overpaying for rent. Visit  3-6 BDRM HOMES FOR 06/07.  1 bedroom apartment for rent 1 mile  
NOTICES  Lennon, Upton Sinclair,Noam Chomsky ... OVER BREAK ADD  FOR LEASE FOR THE 06/07 SCHOOL YEAR. CLOSE TO CAM- BlueGoldrentals.com New 3-4 Bedroom Homes, 3 full  ALSO NOW.329-0308 5-bdrm,2-bath remodeled house.  to campus. $575/mo. Laundry. Call 283-0325  

 YOUR NAME TO THE LIST-FIGHT  PUS. 4 BEDROOMS, UP TO 10  Baths, 2+ Car Garage, Fireplace,  Grad students or faculty. Walk to  
ND BOWL TRAVEL DISCOUNTED AIR AND STUDENT HOTELS  FOR WHAT IS RIGHT! Envir. Work! $375+/wk 2-10pm M-F FT/PT  BEDROOMS. CALL 315-5032 ASK FOR  Cathedral Ceilings, 1Ox20 Deck, Close to Campus. $1700 monthly.  ND. $1100/mo. $1100 deposit. 574­292-8980.  PERSONAL  
AnthonyTravel.com LaFortune ­ Available. 574-232-7905.  KRAMER.  Available Aug. 06/07, Call 574-232­ 
Basement 631-7080  4527, 269-683-5038.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
Law student needed part time by  123 ND Ave. 3 bdrm,1.5 bath. Call  4 Bdrm 2 Bath remodeled house  not go it alone. If you or someone  
Rock the World SAVE THE PLAN- local company to assist in patent  574-229-0149.  For rent: Two story house complete- Grad Students or Faculty 1075  you love needs confidential support  
ET Activists needed to protect  application and research projects.  ly remodeled 2003.  Riverside DR. $1000/mo + 1000  or assistance, please call Sr. M.L.  
lndianas environment-$375+/wk, 2­ Flex hours. Contact 574-532-1187.  908 SB Ave: Roomy 6-7 bdrm home  Deposit 574-234-5041  Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more  
1Opm M-F, PI for college students  4 blocks to ND. 2 baths, w/d, broad- Ready for immediate occupancy or  information, see our bi-weekly ad in  
(574)232-7905  FoR SALE  band internet incl. Avail. 06-07 &07­08 school year. 327 Hill St: NEED A  next semeseter or next school year. Off street parking includes motion  Two story house completely remod­eled 2003. Ready for immediate  THE OBSERVER.  
4 Bdrm 2 Bath remodeled house Grad Students or Faculty 1075 Riverside DR. $1 000/mo + 1000 Deposit 574-234-5041  02 Lincoln LSE fully loaded, beauti­ful condition. 277-3868.  HOME TODAY? NEED A SECOND CHANCE? Very nice 3 bdrm home. Close to ND &Corbys. Broadband internet option. W/D & alarm system  sensor light for security. Four individually locked bedrooms, central station monitored security system, six blocks from Notre  occupancy or next semester or next school year. Off street parking includes motion sensor light for security. Four individually locked  SPRING BREAK -Early Booking Specials-FREE Meals & Drinks ­$50 Deposit -800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com  
$17,900.  avail. Move in today.  Dame, bus stop in front of house,  bedrooms, central station monitored  Bahamas Spring Break Cruise! 5  
Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 or  surrounded by other student hous­ security system, six blocks from  Days from $299! Includes Meals,  
WANTED  FoR RENT  email JCrimmins@ myLandGrant.com  ing, Laundromat next door, basement  Notre Dame, bus stop in front of house, surrounded by other student  MTV Celebrity Parties! Cancun, Acapulco, Jamaica From $499!  
available for storage of bicycles,  housing, Laundomat next door,  Campus Reps Needed!  
HOLIDAY HELP $17.25 base-appt.  WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BEDROOM  HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6  luggage, trunks, etc.,  basement available for storage of  PromoCode:31 www.springbreak­ 
._  flex. schedules, cust. sales/service, no exp. nee., cond. apply, all ages 18 &older, Call Now, Start Alter Finals! South Bend 574-273-3835  HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532­1408 Area Houses and Apartments for  bdrms includes all utilities, local phone,washer/dryer,security sys-tern. $400/student. 574-315-2509 ndstudentrentals.com  new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertaining, free trash removal.  bicycles, luggage, trunks, etc., new furnace and central air, new kitchen including new stove and refrigerator, large living room for TV or entertain- travel. com 1-800-678-6386 To the Bastille!  
Indianapolis 317-253-2734  rent. Log on toMichianaRentals.com  2006 SPRING SEMESTER NOW  ing, free trash removal. Call 289­ 
Bloomington 812-330-11 04  Caii574-993-RENT (7368).  AVAILABLE.  Call 289-4071.  4071.  A Fiesta in Tempe  



OUND THE NATION 
Monday, December 5, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 15 
MLB
BCS Top 25 

team preu. pet. 
1 usc 1 .9868 2 Texas 2 .9732 3 Penn State 3 .9187 4 Ohio State 6 .8559 5 Oregon 7 .7989 6 NOTRE DAME 8 .7329 7 Georgia 13 .7182 6 Miami 9 .7037 9 Auburn 10 .6747 10 Virginia Tech 5 .6715 11 West Virginia 11 .6403 12 LSU 4 .6293 13 Alabama 15 .4538 14 TCU 14 .4445 15 Texas Tech 16 .4286 16 UCLA 12 .3693 17 Florida 17 .3056 18 Wisconsin 18 .3021 19 Louisville 21 .2624 20 Michigan 19 .2579 21 Boston College 20 .2452 22 Florida State NR .1110 23 Oklahoma 23 .0999 24 Georgia Tech 24 .0945 25 Northwestern 22 .0687 
A.P. Football Top 25 
team record points 
1 usc (56) 12-0 1,616 2 Texas (9) 12-0 1,569 3 Penn State 10-1 1,483 4 Ohio State 9-2 1,375 5 NOTRE DAME 9-2 1,327 6 Oregon 10-1 1,241 7 Auburn 9-2 1,221 8 Georgia 10-2 1,202 9 Miami 9-2 1,098 10 LSU 10-2 1,028 11 West Virginia 10-1 991 12 VIrginia Tech 10-2 943 13 Alabama 9-2 813 
14 TCU 10-1 790 Associated Press for Furcal, who had spent Colletti on Tuesday night. final $4 million payment 15 louisville 9-2 644 his entire six-year career Furcal and Katz went out in January 2009. 
16 Florida 6-3 588 
LOS ANGELES with the Braves. to dinner Friday night in "It's going to be tough.
17 UCLA 9-2 542 
Shortstop Rafael Furcal "He liked all three fits," Los Angeles with McCourt, This is going to be the 
18 Texas Tech 9-2 533 
and the Los Angeles Kinzer said. and Furcal was impressed first time he's ever been 
19 Boston College 8-3 410 
Dodgers have reached Kinzer said the Dodgers by McCourt. without Bobby Cox,"
20 Michigan 7-4 377 
preliminary agreement on entered the negotiations "He told Raffy his vision Kinzer said, referring to
21 Wisconsin 9-3 325 
a $39 million, three-year late, but that new general of where he wanted the the longtime Braves' man­
22 Florida State 8-4 296 
·contract, his agent said manager Ned Colletti and team to be and how he lit ager.
23 Clemson 7-4 240 
Sunday. owner Frank McCourt in," Kinzer said. "Once the It was the first major
24 Georgia Tech 7-4 189 
Paul Kinzer said a phys­made a persuasive argu­Dodgers went to $13 [mil­move for the Dodgers
25 Iowa 7-4 86 
ical was scheduled for his ment. lion], the Cubs and Braves under Colletti, hired in client on Monday. Dodgers "Earlier in the week, we weren't moving to that mid-November as the suc­spokesiiJ.an Josh Rawitch were about finished when point." cessor to Paul OePodesta. Men's Big East Basketball would only say no they got involved," Kinzer Furcal will receive $9 Before Los Angeles got announcement was said. "They asked if we million next year, with $5 involved, Cubs manager 
team total W-L pet. planned before baseball's could listen. We have a million of that to be called Jim Hendry appeared to 1 Connecticut 6-0 1.000 winter meetings, which tremendous amount of a signing bonus. He gets be the favorite. 2 PIHsburgh 4-0 1.000 begin Monday in Dallas. respect for Ned." $13 million in cash in "Jim Hendry really 3 Villanova 4-0 1.000 Los Angeles beat out Adam Katz, Kinzer's each of the following two wanted it, worked hard," 4 louisville 2-0 1.000 Atlanta and Chicago Cubs partner, had dinner with seasons, and there is a Kinzer said. 5 Rutgers 5-1 0.833 6 St. John's 4-1 0.800 7 Syracuse 6-2 0.750 8 Georgetown 3-1 0.750 IN BRIEF 
g 

Marquette 5-2 0.714 10 Cincinnati 3-2 0.600 Colts' Manning1 .Harrison has 9,067 yards rushing. familiar with the talks told the AP 11 Providence 3-2 0.600 and James reacli tviilestones Manning completed the drive with a that there were a few outstanding12 Seton Hall 3-2 0.600 INDIANAPOLIS -The Indianapolis 27-yard TD pass to Reggie Wayne. issues remaining but that a deal eould 13 USF 3-2 0.600 Colts triplets again were setting mile­That gave Manning 25 touchdown be struek later Sunday or Monday.14 West Virginia 4-3 0.571 stones at a frantic pace Sunday. passes this year, extending his NFL The Los Angeles Angels, Baltimore 
15 NOTRE DAME 2-2 0.500 
Marvin llarrison became the 12th reeord to eight consecutive seasons and Texas also sought Byrd. 
16 DePaul 2-3 0.400 
receiver in league history to top with 25 or more. llis deal with the Indians would 12,000 yards receiving in the first Free af;{ent pitcher Byrd include an option that could raise tlw quarter against Jaeksonville. He did it signs conlract with Indians value to $22 million over three sea­on the Colts' opening drive, catehing a CLEVElAND -Free agent starter sons. 36-yard pass to top the mark and then Paul Byrd is close to finalizing a Pacers finish road trip
around the dial $14.25 million, two-year contraet without Croshere, Tinsleycatching a 10-yard TD pass from Peyton Manning to extend the duo's with the Cleveland Indians, filling one SEATTLE -The Indiana PacPrs NFL record to 92 touehdowns. of the club's biggest needs on the eve were without starters Jamaal Tinsley
NFL 

In the third quarter, Manning and of thn winter meetings. and Austin Croslwre whPn tlw tmun 
Monday Night Football 
Edgerrin James got their own accom­Byrd, who went 12-11 with a 3.74 elosed out a five-game road trip Seattle at Philadelphia plishments. ERA in 31 starts for the Los Angeles Sunday night against the Seattle 
9:00 p.m., ABC On the opening drive, James carried Angels last season, was trying to com­SuperSonies. for 8 yards with 11 :29 left to give him plete a deal with the Indians, a per­Tinsley missed his sneond straight 

9,003 yards in 93 games, making him son familiar with the negotiations said game with a sore groin. lin was inae­
NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
the third-fastest player to top 9,000 Sunday night, speaking on eondition tive Friday against Portland. 
Jimmy V Classic 
yards rushing. The only players to do of anonymity because the deal was Croshere. who injured his North Carolina vs. Connecticut it quieker were Erie Dickerson, who not yet in place. abdomen against the Trail Blawrs, 
7:30 p.m., ESPN2 accomplished the feat in 82 games; Byrd's decision to sign with started five straight games before and Jim Brown, who did it in 88. Cleveland was first reported by Sunday. In 10 starts this season, 
James finished with 107 yards on 28 ESPN.com, which said the sides had Croshere averaged 9.3 points and earries and one touchdown. He now reached an agreement. The person 7.3 rebounds. 
page 16 Monday, December 5, 2005
The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Duke tops Virginia Tech on last-second shot 
Dean bounces back from slump to lead Louisville over Arkansas State; UCLA overcomes slow start to beat Coppin State 
Associated Press He finished with a season-high shot. I feel I'm in a little groove 
19 points -the first time he's now." 
DURHAM. N.C. -Duke's been in double figures all season Juan Palacios had seven points magic at Cameron Indoor -and was 4-of-5 from 3-point and nine rebounds, Brandon Stadium is alive and well. range. Of course, the final one Jenkins scored 11 points, and 
Sean Dockery made a heave was the most important. David Padgett added five points, from about 40 feet with less than Collins led the Ilokies with 25 five rebounds and four assists for a second left, giving the top­points on 12-of-17 shooting, and Louisville. ranked Blue Devils an improba­Dowdell added 15. Dereke Tipler led Arkansas ble 77-75 victory over Virginia It proved to be short-lived. State with 20 points, most com­Tech on Sunday night in the ing in the first half on an array of Atlantic Coast Conference opener Louisville 67, circus shots that allowed the for both teams. Arkansas State 55 Indians to keep it close. 
The frantic finish denied the Taquan Dean's shooting slump "We executed well and didn't Hokies a stunning upset after didn't last long. back down," Arkansas State they rallied from an 11-point The Louisville guard made six coach Dickey Nutt said. deficit in the final 4 1/2 minutes. 3-pointers and scored 24 points Coleman Collins capped the as the seventh-ranked Cardinals UCLA 69, Coppin State 57 comeback by tipping in a miss by overcame a sluggish first half to Fortunately for UCLA, college Zabian Dowdell, and after con­pull away from Arkansas State basketball is played in two ferring with TV replays, the ref­at the Colonial Classic on Sunday. halves. The Bruins needed the erees put 1.6 seconds back on Dean knocked down three last 20 minutes to make up for the clock for the Blue Devils (7-shots from beyond the arc during another uninspired start. 0). a decisive 19-4 run in the second Arron Affialo scored 20 points 
Coach Mike Krzyzewski drew half when Louisville (3-0) shook and keyed a second-half rally up a play with freshman Josh free of the Indians (2-4) in the with Cedric Bozeman that helped McRoberts throwing the final 10 minutes. ·the 16th-ranked Bruins beat inbounds pass, and he lofted a "He's the target on everybody's Coppin State Sunday. perfect one to Dockery just over blackboard," Louisville coach The Bruins ( 6-1) won their firth half'court. He took one quick Rick Pitino said. "Taquan is the straight at Pauley Pavilion, but dribble and launched his shot man. Every coach is screaming needed another comeback to put filled with stops at No. 5 Trailing by three, the Bruins from the "Coach K Court" decal 'Don't let him shoot."' away an inferior opponent. Last Oklahoma, No. 12 Illinois, ran off seven straight points to ncar the sideline. Dean entered the game shoot­Tuesday, they blew all of a 19-Pittsburgh, Michigan and No. 13 take their first lead, 42-38, since 
It ratt!Pd in, sending the ing just 27 percent from the field point lead and trailed by one Michigan State. early in the first half. Bozeman Cameron Crazies into a frenzy and 19 percent from 3-point before closing out Albany 73-65. "They have to play games on had four points and Al'flalo and giving Virginia Tech (5-3) its range. It looked like his struggles "We're definitely concerned the road to raise money for their added two free throws as UClA second stunning loss in two days. would continue against the because we play much better budget," UCLA coach Ben went ahead for good. On Saturday, Marcus Vick and Indians. He missed six of his first teams [in the future]," AI'J1alo Howland said. "We lost our composure," the Hokies · i'ootball team lost the nine shots, most of them long said. "It's always tough when you Tywain McKee led Coppin Coppin State coach Ron Mitchell ACC's first 1·hampionship game jumpers that bounced harmlessly know a team is 0-5. You just got State with a eareer-high 21 said. "We gave them a lot of easy to Florida ·-;tate. oil' the rim. to come out and play hard. We points and Augustine Woodlin baskets to start the second half. 
Shelden Williams dominated A quick evaluation of his shoot­picked it up a little bit in the sec­added 12. You can't do that if vou want to LhroughoUl and finished with 21 ing motion by Pitino set Dean ond half." "We know we're small and win at a place like thfs." points and 19 rebounds, while straight. The Eagles remained winless, young and they have the name Coppin State wasted five of its 
U. Hedick bounced back from "I was moving back on my falling to 0-6 for the first time and we don't, but we played next six possessions on lirst half foul trouble to add 18 jump shot, I wasn't landing in the since starting the 1999-2000 extra hard. We were in it in the turnovers, while the Bruins put points. Yet with the game on the same place," Dean said. "Coach season. They are playing their first half," McKee said. "We just together a 25-10 spree that line, Dockl'ry was the one who told me that at halftime, now I first 14 games on the road. have too many young players, extended their lead to W-48 with ··.arne throu~h. !'eel more comfortable with my including a brutal December but we're learning." 4:23 remaining. 
NCAA NOMEN'S SOCCER 
Por[land beats UCLA to viin NCAA title, 4-0 
\ssociated Pre.'' goal scorer and finished her 
career with 25. 
COLLEGI·: STATION, Texas -The Bruins (22-2-2). who Portland nnded UCLA's near­outscored their first live tour­perfect run in the NCAA tour­namfHlt opponents 25-0. lost in nament by producing a shutout the title game for the second of its own and getting a record­straight year. They lost to Notre setting pMI'ormance from its Dame on penalty kicks last star player. year after playing to a 1-1 tie. 
Christine Sinclair scored two "My heart and soul is with my goals, setting an NCAA record team," UCLA coach Jill Ellis in the prOf'nss, and Portland said. 'Til try to console them beat UCLA -1-0 in the national and remind the things they've championship game on Sunday. done this season and the suc­
Angie \\'ozn uk added a goal cesses they've had." and two assists for the Pilots With UCLA's defense keying (24-0-2), who won their second on Sinclair from the start, title in thnw vears. Portland Wnznuk moved to an opening, beat Santa ciara 2-1 in tlw look a fHed !'rom Megan 2002 c.hamj•. l•Ship gamt:. H<lpin<w and zippPd a right­
"This 1Pa•· just. showed 1h· foot!'fl shot under UCLA goal­whole r.ou:;;ry what it's hu'it kr-npcr Valerie Hendf~rson just ;•ut of-a lot. of class, a lot ..r 92 sec(lnds into the game. ~alent, a lol ,·f hard work and ··ro ~.t·, ·:·<· a goal that narly, I i'oundation .tt will alww ,:;ink, ' •!kes the ntlwr team with us.· "nrtland q1s·· ' :: a littl<• bit what ·.~arrett Smit' :-,aid. • · ,, pable of.., Woznuk 
Sinclair. a m<>mber of thl' -<lid. Canadian na1ional team. sc..,.,.,, UCJ. \ l1ad shut out 17 of its both of hnr goals in the first prPvious 19 NCAA tournament half, giving lwr 39 this year. opponPnts before Woznuk's Entering thn game, Sinelair goal, the fastest the Pilots had was tied-for the NCAA season scored in a game this season. mark with SMU's Lisa Cole, "They did a great job to capi­who had 37 goals in 1987. talize on our mistake," Ellis 
Sinclair was already the said. "That certainly put us NCAA tournament's all-time behind the 8-ball." 



Monday, December 5, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 

ND WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish hold off Trun1an, -win ND Invitational 
Carroll breaks meet and pool records in 1,650 freestyle race 
By GREG ARBOGAST 
Sports Wri tcr 
T h P w o nw n 's s w i 111 m i n g and diving tPam got out of lhP blocks quickly and never lookPcl hack on tlwir way to a eornf'ortablP victory in tlw Notre l>arrw Invitational this wnnkPncl. Tlw Irish lnd from start to l'inish, accumulating I ,822 points while holding orr f'ivn-tirne dtlf'ending llivision-11 champions Truman Stat11 (I ,64:{ points). 
Arter starting the mnet in strong f'ashion Thursday with ninn top-three finishes, Notre Dame rnl'oeused and delivernd stronger rnsults on 
"/felt that our best
Friday and tirrie of Saturday. performance was on 2:02.79. During the Stephens
Saturday night. and that 
final two earned an 
was very pleasing." 
days, the NCAA "B" Irish gar-cut time in IHHI~d )2 Carrie Nixon the 100 top-throe fin­butterfly
Irish head coach 
ishes, eight f'irst-place finishes, one season-bnst timn, one NCAA "B" cut time and two meet and pool records. 
"You always want to f'inish the nwet strong," Irish coach Carrie Nixon said. "I felt that our best performance was on Saturday night, and that was very pleasing." 
The highlight of the week­end was Katie Carroll's p11r­
formance  in  thn  1,650  
freestyle.  Carroll,  with  a  
timn  of  16:37.58,  broke  

Linda Gallo's eight-year-old nwet record time of 16:44.Y1 and bested Mi<:higan's Emily­Clarn Fnnn's pool rncord of 16:40.28 from 2003. 
Carroll's tirnP, which was tlw fifth fastest in school his­tory for the event, was fast 
.·i:t~:~\ ...-:f.'\. 

enough for an NCAA "B" cut timn, her sixth of the season. 
"Katin's versatility was rnally nxnmplif'ied in the 1,650 Ifrnnstyle I this week­end," Nixon said. "We're able to put her wherever we need her and wherever she feels that she can make the biggest diiTerencn for us." 
Carroll was not the only swimmer to set n~cords for the Irish this weekend, as the 200 individual medley team of'· Caroline Johnsori, .Julia Quinn, Hebecca Grove and Jessic~a Stephens bested a seven-year-old meet and pool record held by Michigan. The relay team snt the record by .04 seeonds with a time of l :43.73. 
Casey Wagner, Stephens and .Johnson turned in other imprnssive pp,rf'ormances this wneknnd. Wagnnr won the 200 butter­fly with a career-best 
with a time 
of 55.35. 

Johnson won the 100 baekstroke with a season-best time of 56.45. 
This recent trend of sea­son-best times and NCAA qualifieation times has not been lost on Nixon. 
"It's a building process," Nixon said. "We've been training really hard, but we've also been learning how to be better athletes. It takes a while to learn that as it builds up over the course of a season." 
With a streak of four con­secutive victories behind it, the team has nearly a month off until its next meet against Michigan and Illinois. 
Contact Greg Arbogast at garbogas@nd.edu 
NO VOLLEYBALL 

Team advances to Sweet 16 
Sixth-seeded Irish defeat Northwestern 30-27, 32-30, 30-28 
By TOM DORWART 
Sports Writer 

Sixth-seeded Notre Dame (30-3) advanced to the NCAA Sweet 16 for the first time since 1YY7 with a second­round victory Friday evening over Northwestern (20-12) 30-27, 32-30, 30-28. 
"We're rcmlly nxcited about moving on to the next round and being in the Sweet 16," Irish coach Debbie Brown said. "It's been a long time for the program since we've been there." 
The Irish -who have dominated the Big East for more than a decade -f'inal­ly got the monkey off their back and will travel to College Station, Texas for the Sweet 16 Friday. 
''I'm really pleased with the way the team came out tonight," Brown said. "We"ve struggled recently in games three, and we started off poorly in game three, nut the last half of game three we played really, really well to 11nish it and just compet­ed hard. 
"It was a really good team win. We're excited that we get to keep playing." 
Senior Lauren Brewster said her team can play with­out the pressure of being the favorite, and, now, they don't care who their oppo­nent is. Now, they're playing the nation's best. 
"I think we're going to be able to focus on our team a lot more now," she said. "We know that the better we're going to be, each round in the NCAA tournament, there are going to be good teams and they're going to play well. 
"I think before ... Ithere was] more pressure on us to have to win. Now,· it's just down to the 16 best teams. We know they're going to show up to play." 
Notre Dame will play No . 11 Wisconsin (25-6) in the College Station, Texas regional this Friday at 6 p.m. 
The other matchup is No. 3 Washington (28-1) and No. 14 Purdue (25-8). The two will square off at 8 p.m. 
Against the Wildcats, soph­omore outside hitter Adrianna Stasiuk finished with 16 kills, including one cross-court rocket that land­ed within live feet of the net, and a match-high 19 points. Kelbley drilled 13 kills, while Brewster spiked 10. Senior Carolyn Cooper added ninn. 
Defensively, senior Meg llenican nabbed 21 digs, while Stasiuk and junior Danielle Ilerndon added 10 and nine, rc~spectively. Brewstnr lnd the team with nine blocks. Cooper also had eight. 
The Irish battled for a 2-0 lead against the Wildcats. The second game was neck­and-neck tho entire way, with 13 ties and two lead changes. 
Despite the 2-0 deficit, Northwestern knew it had a chance. 
"Everyone's fallible," sen­ior outside hitter Christie Gardner said. "We knew we had a good chance to win. We knew we were capable." 
When the Irish went to the locker room for the break in we were going to win this match today, and that there was no other option." 
For Brown and the Irish, especially the five seniors, nach win brings another chance to play together. 
"We love playing," Brown 
between games two and three, they, no doubt, had their previous two matches in the backs of their minds. In their last match before the NCAA tournament, the Irish lost to Tennessee in five games after leading 2-0. In Thursday's NCAA first round, Notre Dame went up 2-0 on Dayton and eventual­ly won a tight fifth game. 
This time, the Irish wanted nothing to do with a fifth game. They didn't even want a fourth. 
"It's just a mental hurdle to get over," Brown said, referring to finishing the third game. "It was good. I liked the way the team talked in the locker room bntwoen games two and thrPe, and I liked the way we f'inished." 
This timn with thn season on the line, the Irish know they would get the job dqne. 
"I went home and I thought about it and tried to figure out what went wrong yesterday," Kelbley said. "I was resolved to get out there and make it happen. I tried to talk to my teammates and make sure everyone knew 
said. "It's thn most exciting time or the year." 
For the seniors, who have been gearing for this moment their entire careers, the Sweet 16 is that much sweeter. 
"I think we were really determined," Brewster said. "I love championship games; I love the NCAA tournament. We've been trying to get to the Sweet 16 for the four· years we've been here, so that was a motivating factor for all of us." 
Though the Irish took tlw third game from tlw Wildeats, it wasn't nasy. Thny went down 4-7 to start the game. 
That had Brown thinking thny worn in for yet anotlwr momentum swing. 
"I thought, 'Down 4-7, oh no, horn we go again.' It nnndnd to stop right thnrn," she said. "And the team did a great job of coming out of tlw timeout and again hav­ing the commitment and tlw resolve to get it donn. Tlw competitors earnn out." 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 

Winter snow,.···'•··· ·~~ ·,\, :.,.· -·i'·
~, .. _ i../

···iz.,,,','~..P.'<:,;:~..~:::·.:.~~-~~ J.;,~:·:;::;:~ i:;,'.,;;d\, ~:~
1

shin meIS ·~:·?'(·· ·-~·a'··;,· .~;:1 ·"·· · 
1 

'' F ,·
~: '~~?; :~,,,f~i 
so should yourf..,·Ba.ll~\! ·:v ,.f·) 
.,:~· ' . . . 

Let us take care of your mlor 
-·~ ·.. 

before the holidays. We'i·e open through Dec. 22nd. 
University H:rir Stylist Located in the LaFortune Center 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, December 5, 2005 
HOCKEY 
Brown shuts out Western Michigan in 3-0 win 
Junior earns fifth shutout of career in Saturday victory as Irish, Broncos split weekend home-and-home series 
a one-man advantage to open sent to the penalty box and 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
the second. O'Neill redirected Notre Dame found itself at a 5­Sports Writer 
a centering pass from junior on-3 disadvantage. 
left wing Josh Sciba past The Broncos were unable to 
Early this season, Notre Western goalie Daniel score however, as the Irish Dame coach Jeff Jackson said Bellissimo. defense cleared the puck four he was waiting for a goalie to "Actually, it was a broken times and allowed only one show him something. Junior play," O'Neill said of his goal. shot, which Brown saved easi­Dave Brown may have finally "The guy was pressuring me, ly. become that goalie this week­so I cut down the wall and got "That was a turning point in end as the Irish split a home­a great pass from [Sciba]." the game for us, to be able to and-home series with Western The game represented a ren­kill off a 5-on-3," Jackson said. Michigan. aissance of "Penalty 
Brown relieved Freshman sorts for killing hasn't .Jordan Pearce in the third O'Neill, who been our quarter of Friday's 4-3 loss to also recorded specialty, but the Broncos in Kalamzoo, an assist. guys were
"I thought we played well 
Mich. He made seven saves After going blocking and did not allow a goal as pointless for in front ofhim, didn't give shots and Notre Dame stormed back the last four them a lot ofchances. " sacrificing from a three-goal deficit in the games, and realizing final period. O'Neill was what they
Jeff Jackson 
Brown started and earned ·key to the needed to get the fifth shutout of his career Irish victory Irish head coach done." Saturday in a 3-0 victory at the Saturday. The Irish Joyce Center. "It the best added to 
The win ended a five-game game he's their lead at winless streak for the Irish and played for us the 5:59 improved Notre Dame's record this year," Jackson said of the mark of the third period. Arter to 4-9-1 and 3-6-1 in the junior. "Confidence is a funny a charging call on Western CCHA. thing. When [players] lo£e center Sean Weaver gave Notre 
"[Brown has] played well [all their confidence, they don't Dame a power play, O'Neill season]," Jackson said of have as much energy. I had a found himself with the puck Saturday's performance. "I little talk with him this morn­behind the Bronco net. He thought we played well in front ing about his game last night flipped a pass into a crowd of him. dido 't give them a lot of and how he prepares himself between the face-off circles chances. There were no back­to play, and he was one of the and senior left wing Mike door situations. He made the best players on the ice." Walsh batted it past Bellissimo. saves we needed made, and he The Broncos threatened to Notre Dame capped off the made some when we really even the game after the puck game with its first five-on-five needed them." went into a corner. Junior goal of the night at 17:31 of 
Junior defenseman Wes defenseman Tom Sawatske the third when junior center O'Neill opened the scoring for was called for clubbing a Jason Paige rocketed a shot the Irish Saturday with a Western player in the back of past Bellissimo from the point. power-play goal 1:46 into the the head in the ensuing melee. The game was one of the second period. Bronco defense­With one official holding his cleanest the Irish have played man Jonathan Lupa was called arm up for a delayed penalty, this year, with only ten penal­for holding as time expired in another called Sciba for trip­ties committed between the the first p'eriod, giving the Irish ping. Both Irish players were two squads, including just one 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Cold second half leads to loss for Saint Mary's 
had a steal, as well as 13 
By TIM KAISER 
points, including 8 points from Sports Writer 
the free throw line on a team­
high ten attempts. 
The Belles took a 25-23 lead Allison Kessler also had 10 into halftime, but poor second points, and Bridget Lipke lead half shooting led to a 55-49 the team with 10 rebounds to loss Saturday against North go along with five points, Park in Chicago. three assists and a steal. 
Both teams shot poorly, but St. Mary's next game is North Park's 29-percent from Wednesday, an_d the Belles the floor was enough to defeat will look to end a four-game St. Mary's, who shot 23 per­losing streak. Coach Bender cent on the game -19 per­thinks that his team's strug­cent in the second half. gles will end on Wednesday 
The Belles were just 2-of-15 and their hard work will final­from 3-point range and 70 ly pay off.· percent from the free throw This week, Coach Bender line. The Belles also had 38 says the Belles will work on rebounds to the Lady Vikings "execution" in practice and in 3 7, the second time the Belles the game they need to "have a have out rebounded an oppo­little patience, get [their] con­nent this season. fidence up and get on a roll." 
"We just didn't make shots "We've got to come with a in either half," Belles coach positive attitude," Bender Steve Bender said. "That said. ''I've got a real good feel­game was just a couple of ing about [Wednesday]. We've shots from being a different got to get some confidence story. early and be the aggressors. 
"We played hard. [The girls'] These past few games, we've intensity has been great every been on our heels a little." game." St. Mary's will take on 
Erin Newsom led the Belles Adrian College (2-3) at home with 14 points and also added on Wednesday at 7:30p.m. nine rebounds and a blocked shot. Bridget Boyce led the Contact Tim Kaiser at team with three assists and tkaiser@nd.edu 
in the third period. 

"It was good game because the official called the game," Jackson said. "He didn't call what everyone wants him to call. He didn't make things up, which added more tempo and flow to the game." 
Western Michigan 4, Notre Dame 3 

The Irish fell behind 4-1 Friday in Kalamazoo but mounted· a comeback that gave them some momentum for Saturday night. 
''Coach talked about us mak­ing sure we get back to the lit­tle things that make us a com­plete hockey team," O'Neill said of Jackson's second inter­mission speech that carried over to the next night. 
The game got off to a fast start with a goal by both teams in the first 33 seconds. 
Notre Dame forward Tim Wallace took a loose puck off the opening face-off and skat­ed down the ice to score just nine seconds into the game. Unfortunately for Notre Dame, it would give up four goals before finding the back of the net again. 
Twenty-four seconds after Wallace's goal, Western right wing Daryl Moore blasted a shot into a crowd in front of the Irish net from the right face-off circle. 
The puck hit a stick and flew up in the air, landing behind Pearce and trickling into the net. 
Less than three minutes later, Broncos star forward Brent Walton scored the first of his three goals on the night. 
Walton took a pass from defenseman Ryan Mahrle, skated into the Notre Dame zone and ripped the puck past Pearce's outstretched glove to give the Broncos a 2-1 lead 
3:23 into the game. 

"I thought that [Western Michigan) came out flying for the first ten minutes, but after the first ten minutes, we played pretty well," Jackson said of the game's high-scoring early going. 
Walton would add to the lead in the second period. His slap shot from the left circle skipped along the ice and got underneath Pearce's pads to put Western up by two. 
Just 44 seconds later, Walton completed his hat trick when he fought through a crowd to get to the rebound of a shot by defenseman Jason Moul. 
"We gave up a couple of bad goals on shots Jordan Pearce would usually stop, but a cou­ple of them went in the net, which really put us on our heals," Jackson said of the Bronco's scoring outburst. 
The Irish would answer after Paige stole an errant pass in the Western zone and banged home his first goal of the year. 
Brown replaced Pearce in goal and held the Broncos scoreless, but Notre Dame could only muster a Sciba goal at 10:04 of the third period and the comeback fell short. 
The Irish get only two days off before returning to the ice in Mankato, Minn., against Minnesota State Tuesday. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 


Monday, December 5, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Quinn proves to be a warrior despite loss 
l'll~nty or vnry good players havn tho ability to take ovnr a ganw. Thny just don't have the !wart. 
It's tlw lirP that burns inside a playnr aftnr scoring six lirst-half points. It's tlw pridP and dPt.Prrnina­tion that forcns a play­Pr to put tlw ganw on his shouldnrs. for bPttnr or worst~. It's thn dnsirn to takn ovnr a ganw. 
Irish point guard Chris Quinn prowd Saturday-at lnast for orw af'tPrnoon -hP simply has it. 
<}uinn missnd a po·tnntial ganw-tying lloatnr after Michigan guard I>ion Harris rnadn it a two-point game with 17 snconds loft. But that's line. lin had a good look, and he had no intention of passing it up. 
Many good baskntball players could bm~orne spedal but fall short bneausn they don't have this heart. It happnns all the tirnn at tlw pro level. 
l'hiladelphia 76ers forward Chris Webber, a perennial all­star. disappears faster than David Blainn in the fourth quartnr. Sacramento Kings for­ward Pnja Stojakovie averagnd 
24.2 points pnr gamn in the 

Bobby Griffin 
Associate .')ports Hditor 


2003-04 season before scoring eight points on 3-ol'-12 shooting in a Game 7 against the Timberwolves. 
There is a reason why Heggie Millnr is a borderline I Jail of Famer oven though his career points per gamn averagn (18.2) is barely lngal. lin thrived undnr pressurn and hit big shots shots and sometimes he made turnovers, but he did it know­ing he had to step up moro so than anyone else. 
Thomas became the postnr boy for tho motto that teams should live and die with their best player. 
Quinn watched and h~arned. 
Hevisit Kyle 

McAlarney's layup 
in big spots. that tied the game
Anybody can score 
Let's not get at 52 with 8:17 
in the first half
ahead of our­remaining. It was selves, though. when the crowd is the last Irish bas­Quinn is clearly ket that was not
quiet, but only a 
not a{ this level. credited to Quinn.
special player 
But against Michigan took a Michigan he wants the ball 30-seeond time­showed he is the out, and Quinn
when it matters. 
type of player who can elevate his play when his team needs it most. 
Anybody can score in the first half when the crowd is quiet, but only a special player wants the ball when it matters. 
The numbers tell the story. In the first half Quinn was 3-of-6 from the field for six points. In the second hall', Quinn explod­ed on 6-of-12 shooting for 20 points, including 4-of-5 from 3­point range. I le played the entire 20 minutes and hit all four of his free throws down the stretch. 
Quinn has been waiting for this moment. While former point guard Chris Thomas did­n't always live up to expecta­tions, he always weleomed the pressure. Sometimes he forced scored Notre 
Dame's final 15 points-only forcing one shot in that entire span. 
"Looking at his numbers, I'm not sure anybody's presence was going to stop Quinn this afternoon," Michigan coach Tommy Amaker said. 
And Quinn almost did Saturday what Thomas could not do his senior year, with the exception of last season's St. John's game -finish a big game with a bigger basket. 
But Quinn's late missed shot does not discredit his perform­ance. Irish forward Torin Francis said after the game that Quinn hits that shot nine out of 10 times. There is no doubt he will have more chances this season in dose games, and Quinn will come through. 

"I think he needed a game like this, as the man, this year," Irish coach Mike Brey said. "The lights were on, and he answered the bell continuous­)y. " 
The only question that remains is where this attitude, this hustle, this determination will take Notre Dame in the long run. 

Great players make good teams out of average ones. Let's see if Quinn can do tho same. 
The t'iews expressed in this column are those of t.lte author and not those of The Obsenwr. 
Contact Bobby Gr([(in at rgrij]i:l@n d. edu 


The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture and Morrissey Manor Present 
A lecture on C.S. Lewis by Rev. Charles Gordon, C.S.C. 
8 p.m. DeBartolo Hall, Room 102 
Followed by the, Thursday night 12: 15 AM showing of "The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the ·witch, and the Wardrobe" at .Movies 14 on Edison Road 
Movie ticket sale in Morrissey: 'Monday, December 5, 4-6 PM $10 (includes ticket and concession voucher) 

For additional information, please visit our website at http:/I ethicscenter.nd.edu/narnia.shtml 
page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, December 5, 2005 
MEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish win fifth consecutive Notre Dame Invite 
Bulfin, Stoner earn highest combined total ofcareers; team has not lost at Rolfs Aquatic Center since 2003-04 season 
By DAN MURPHY Sporrs Writer 
The Irish swimming and div­ing team continued to dominate at home this weekend with their fifth consecutive first­place finish at the Notre Dame Invitational. 
Notre Dame has yet to lose at Rolfs Aquatic Center this year and has only suffered defeat once in South Bend since the 2003-04 season -a stretch that includes eight dual meet victories and six first-places finishes in -tournaments. Its only loss came last year in a 163-134 loss to ·a strong Northwestern team. 
"Being at Rolfs is where we are most comfortable." Irish captain Patrick Hefernan said. "It's where we train every day, and everyone is always ready to swim at home." 
The Irish were ready this weekend as they came out strong, opening up a 400-point lead on the first night of com­petition. The team led from the first race until the last. 
Over the three-day meet, Notre Dame was able to pile up 2,813 points-almost twice as many as its closest competition, Utah, who ended with I ,366. 
Many of the individual swim­mers and divers had career­best weekends while helping the team to their overall title. Jay Vanden Berg placed first in both the 500 and 1.650 free style races while posting his season's best times in both events. 
The diving team helped out the Irish with Michael Bulfin 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Kansas St. hires new head coach 
Associated Press MANHATTAN, Kan.-Kansas State has hired Virginia offen­sive coordinator Ron Prince to replaee Bill Snyder as head coaeh, athletic director Tim Weiser said Sunday. Weiser said the school will formally announce the hiring Monday. The 36-year-old Prince, raised about 20 miles from Manhattan in Junetion City, will become only the fourth black head football coach in Division 1-A, joining Washington's Ty Willingham, Mississippi State's Sylvester Croom and UCLA's Karl Dorrell. A lineman at Dodge City Community College and .\ppalachian State, Prinee spent 'ive seasons at Virginia, the last three as oll'ensive coordinator. He also coached at Dodge City, Alabama A&M, Cornell, South Carolina State and James Madison, and spent four sea­sons as an NFL Minority 
and Sam Stoner achieving their. highest combined scores since arriving at Notre Dame. 
Chris Barnes also had a career day by qualifying for the Big East conference meet for the first time in his career in both the 100 and 200 freestyle events. 
"This was my last Notre Dame Invitational and our last meet of the semester, so it was crueial for all of us to get good swims in before our Christmas training trip," Barnes said. 
The Irish begin training for the second semester almost immediately. Irish coach Tim Welsh gave his team little time to celebrate, as they will be back in the pool for praetice on Monday morning, foeused on their ultimate goal of the sea­son, defending their Big East Championship. 
This weekend's invitational, which Welsh referred to as a "dress rehearsal" for the Big East Tournament, left Notre Dame feeling confident about the second semester of their season. 
"We have a little ways to go, but compared to this point last year, I think we are doing very well," Hefernan said. 
No. 19 Notre Dame does not swim again until Jan. 13 when they take on Evansville on the road. Only a month remains before the conelusion of the season in Long Island, N.Y. 
"If we continue to swim as well as we have been and then exceed some of our own lofty expectations, then the Big East championship will be some­thing speeial to see," Barnes said. 
Contact Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 


My Humps -Black Eyed Peas Hustler's Ambition -50 Cent Stay Fly -Fall Out Boy 
Run It! -Chris Brown Here We Go Again (feat Kelly Rowland) -Trina We Be Bumin' (Legalize It)-Sean Paul I'm Sprung -T-Pain Girl Tonite (feat. Trey Songz) -Twista Don't Cha-Pussycat Dolls 
Text Code 
141001 141002 

Type in the 6-digit code and text it to 386. A link to your purchase will be sent to your msg inbox! Supported carriers: Cingular. 
Games &Apps for as low as $3. 99* Text code to386
Play -David Banner 
.

I'm aKing (feat TJ. and Lil' Scrappy)-P$C 141 011 Reggaeton Latino -Don Omar Sugar, We're Going Down -Fall Out Boy 
~ 


141040 141041 141042 141043 141044
Soul Survivor -Young Jeezy Gold Digger -Kanye West 141015 Presidential -Youngbloodz 
B

Hung Up QCan't Keep Waiting For You)-Madonna 141 017 

141045 141047 141048 141050 141051 
Welcome to Jamrock -Damian Marley Jesus of Suburbia -Green Day -Lighters Up -Ul' Kim 

141053 141054
Back Then -Mike Jones 
Back in Black -AC/DC Shake It Off -Mariah Carey 

Graphics for $1.99 Text code to386
Stewie's Sexy Party -Family Guy 


Slow Wind -R. Kelly I'm NLuv (Wit a Stripper) -T-Pain 
141080 141081 141082 141083 
Feel Good Inc. -Gorillaz Bad B*tch -Webbie 

H 
141086
Because I Got High -Afroman 
141055 
~.-~
--~ ::-: 
. . "\.. . 
141084 141085 
• l.i~ 
141090 141091 

Fellowship intern with Jacksonville, Washington, Atlanta and the New York Giants. 
Monday, December 5, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 
Fiesta 
continued from page 24 
an1 now," lloytn said Sunday nvnning aftnr tlw pairings Wl1rP annOUIIC11d. "I think its somnthing that you gotta dnfi­nitnly hold onto and usn that as motivation." 
Notrn Damn, whirh bncanw BCS-nligibln with its ninth win 011 Nov. 2(> at Stanford, movnd up to sixth in th11 BCS af't11r Saturday's ganws, narning an automatic at-large bid. Ohio Statn (IJ-2) nanwd thn bid aftnr finishing fourth in thn final BCS standings, earning an automatir spot. No. h Or11gon was squnnwd out of thn BCS pirturn, dnspitn finishing firth in thn BCS standings with a I0-1 rtH~orcl. llowtwnr. sincn both tlw BueknyPs and thn Irish movnd into tlw top six in thl' BCS. both tnams wnrn guarantned a BCS bid, leaving thP Ducks to play in the lloliday Bowl, wlwn1 they will fare Oklahoma. 
Ohio Statn roach Jim Trnss11l said Sunday his tnarn was looking forward to playing the Irish. having a rhanen to watch tlwm on tape against Michigan and Michigan State, two of Ohio Statn's opponents this season. 
"It was fun watching and learning and studying thnm," Tressol said. "They'rn just a gn1at football team -well­sdwolnd. and it will be excit­ing to play against them." 
And Weis says though his tnam has comn a long way, the Bu1:keyes, who have lost to only two BCS teams -Penn Statn (Orange Bowl vs. Florida Stat11) and Texas (Hose Bowl for the national rhampionship vs. USC) -will present a ehal­hmge. 
"I think that the fact that they got picked as one of the top night teams in the eountry is a very rnwarding feeling for thosP players," Wnis said of his team Sunday night. "They cer­tainly havn eome a long way from walking ofT the field last year and ending up 6-6. But I do know that as rewarding as this year has been, they realizn they have a formidable oppo­rwnt ahead of them. And it's going to bn a tough task." 
For Notrn Dame quartnrback and eo-eaptain Brady Quinn, a native of Dublin, Ohio, a Columbus suburb, the matchup holds speeial mean­ing. 

"It was mow or less an ideal situation," Quinn said. "Playing in a bowl game out there in the Fiesta Bowl against a team I always grew up watching, basically in my baekyard." 
The last time Notre Dame won a bowl game was also the last time the Irish finished the regular season in the top live in the polls. 
In 1993, the Irish finished No. 4 with a 1 0-1 record and thnn went on to defeat No. 7 Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl, finishing the sP.ason as the No. 2 team behind Florida State, who thny beat earlier that sea­son 31-24, before losing to Boston College in the final game of the regular season. But sim~P. then, the Irish have lost snven straight bowl games. 
The Irish lost in the Fiesta Bowl to end the 2000 and 1994 seasons, the Orange Bowl to end the 1995 season and the Independence Bowl to end the 1997 season. Most recently, the Irish lost the Gator Bowl to end the 1998 and 2002 seasons and thn Insight Bowl at the end of last season. But both Irish captains are ready for that streak to end. 
"I think it's something that's a motivational factor," Hoyte said. "Just to be able to for me personally to leave this pro­gram the way it should be and make sure Notre Dame stays on top through my tenure." 
Quinn smiled at the question, knowing the answer immedi­ately. 
"That's something thai obvi­ously needs to end," Quinn said of the losing bowl record. "It's something that's gone on far too long and we're working toward that as one of our goals, ending that streak. " 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
tlw sitn of' tlw Finsta Bowl at Sun I>nvil Stadium in Tnmpn. 
Weis 

But tlw Notro Danw tPams continued from page 24 that playnd and will play in 
thosn two v11nuns might be a Tempe, looking for their first thousand milns apart.. win there sinee dismantling The Irish bngan this snason West Virginia for the 1988 with nnough qtwstion marks to national title. fill up thn rurrnnt. phone book­
Of cours1~. the team is siwd playbook. thrilled. But not just becaus11 of A quartnrbaek who had the $14.8-million paychnek thrown just one morn touch­that is on its way to South down pass (26) than intnrcnp­Bend. tions (25) in two 
This game is years as a startnr. about much A wido nH:nivor more than As Quinn alluded unit whosn most 
monny. It's about to in Sunday's talnnt.nd playnr, thP. Irish being Maurien Stovall, 
press conference, 
of'lieially back. A looked Iikn hn strong perform­the Irish are might graduate as anee in Tempe, .focused on a onn of' thn biggest win or lose, underad1iev1~rs in
serious run at the
sends the mes­rnennt Irish histo­
sage to the rest national title next ry. of the coJIP.ge season. And the And linally a football world head eoach with
perfect runway for
that Notre Dame as many years of'
them to take off
isn't a program 1~ollegiatn lwad eontent with its from is in Tempe. r.oar.hing nxperi­
golden past. It's 
a team eager to 
add to its tradition. 

This program is on a roll. And a win over Ohio State, whether by one point or 50, would erase any doubts thai tlw near-upset of USC on Oct. 15 wasn't a fluke. It would also propel Notre Dame toward the front of the pack of' a wide­open national title race next season. 
Tnxas quarterback Vinee Young will more than likely return, but Mack Brown and the Longhorns have never been known to play well when expected to. 
Southern California will like­ly wave goodbye to the one player that kept it from losing in South Bend this season -Heggie Bush. 

And who knows if Penn State coach Joe Paterno can keep his Nittany Lions at the high level they're playing now. 
Just the fact people are talk­ing about the problems other teams will have next season, and not worrying about whether the Irish will be able to beat Navy or North Carolina, shows how far Notre Dame has come. 
And this matehup with the Buckeyes is a symbol for just how far the Irish have trav­eled. 
Last season's Insight Bowl, when the Irish were whipped by Oregon State 38-21, was played in Phoenix's Bank One Ballpark, only 14 miles from 

nncn as thn Irish haw howl wins sinr.e 1994-zero. 
Yet this season t.lw Irish have proven thPy can throw. they ean catch, thny ean hit and they have a eoach who has adjusted to tho eolloge game as flawlnssly as Stovall has hauled in Irish quartnrbaek Bmdy Quinn's passes. Thny snom to have all tho answers. 
As Quinn alludod to in Sunday's press confnrenee, the Irish arn focused on a serious run at thn national title next season. And the porf'nct run­way for them to take ofT from is in Temp1~. 
Yes, sending ofT Brandon lloytn, Corny Mays, Matt Shelton, 1>..1. Fitzpatri1~k with a win in Sun Devil Stadium is a wonderful way to cap their dedieated careers. 
But it's also the bnst way to set the Irish up for next season as woll as validate their efTorts this season. 
Is it a f'ailurP if' Notre Dame doesn't win the national title next snason? 
Not at all. There's too many factors that go into that. 
llownvnr, a win on .Jan. 2, 2006 eouldn't do anything but help the Irish make it to Jan. 4, 2007. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not those of The Observer. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd. edu 

FOOTBALL 
Quinn, Samardzija named co-MVPs at banquet 
By HEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
Brady Quinn and .Jnf'f' Samardzija were named co­MVJ>s at Friday night's football banquet, which was highlighted by former Irish coach Lou Holtz as the guest speaker. 
lloltz spokn in front of a sell­out erowd of 1,900 after last ynar's banquet was hold private­ly, as it eame on the heels of the firing of Tyrone Willingham. lloltz said Friday before the banquet that it was good to bn baek at the place where he coached from 1986-96. 
"It's just spm:ial every time you eorne back Ito Notre Darnel." I Ioltz said. "You just gnt upbeat and uplifted." 
Quinn and Samardzija havP 
shattered Notre Dame records this year, Quinn setting records for touchdown passes and pass­ing yardage -both single-sea­son and career and Samardzija for touchdown receptions and single-season reeeiving yardage. 
Senior offensive guard Dan Stevenson won the Guardian of the Year Award as the top offen­sive linnman, while junior defen­sive end Vietor Abiamiri won the lineman of the year. 
Three seniors and one junior won the Nick Pintrosante Award as individuals who best exempli­lied the courage, loyalty, team­work, dedication and pride shown by the late Notre Dame fullback. Linebacker Corey Mays, wide recei.ver Maurice Stovall, tight end Anthony Fasano and safety Tom Zbikowski shared the award. 
Meanwhile, co-captain Brandon Boyte won the Knute Rockne Student-Athlete award, as he boasts a 3.14 grade point average as a double major in psychology and management. 
Finally, defensive tackle Trevor Laws and offensive guard Dan Santucci won the Westwood One/State Farm Student-Athlete of the Year award. 
Before the banquet, Holtz talked about a number of dill'er­ent things, from comparing his Irish teams to today's team to his relationship with Mark May of ESPN. 
On the Gugllelmlno Athletics Facility: 
"It's really fantastic. Notre Dame's changed an awful lot. You have tremendous facilities. You pay coaches now. But the one thing that you didn't do ­Notre Dame has not changed its values, its purpose and its mis­sion. All the things you're talk­ing about, facilities and stuff, that doesn't do anything but enhance Notre Dame. It's not like you want to build a great football program at the expense of certain things. Notre Dame will always be the same, regard­less." 
On whether any of his teams compare to the current Irish team: 
"It doesn't remind me of mine. Number one, I wouldn't throw the ball." 
On Charlie Wels as a leader: 
"There isn't any doubt he's in charge. People can name you the head football coach. What they can't do is name you the leader. Titles come from above, leaders are determined by the people below. Tho person that they're going to ehoose as a leader is someone who has a vision and a plan. From talking to Charlie, ho has a vision and a plan." 
On sparring with Mark May about Notre Dame on the air: 
"Mark May is one of the more astute, hardest working, intelli­gent people that expressns him­self' exceptionally well. lie's a true professional. Why he does­n't like Notre Damn, he would have to answer, but boy he sure made nw look good. I said to him on the air one time you're gonna lose your job as an ana­lyst if you keep thinking like this." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
.. :JIll'!: 
• 
page 22 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, December 5, 2005 
Badgers 
continued from page 24 
also had five assists, six rebounds and three steals. Duffy was one of four Irish players to finish in double digits. Freshman Lindsay Schrader had 13 points on 6-of-6 shooting, including her first career 3-pointer, and Tulyah Gaines and Melissa D'Amico each had 11 points. Washington joked Sunday that she should have played Schrader more than 29 minutes because she didn't miss a shot. 
"She's a scorer-the coach is an idiot -she should have played her more. She could've went 12-of-12 or something," Washington said, joking about her coaching. 
"She had a great night offen­sively, and we needed that. Every one of her baskets were big bas­kets. She had a great night, hopefully she can build on it." 
The Irish outrebounded the Badgers 34-27, the first team to do so this year against Wisconsin, which moved to 4-3 after the loss. Leading the way on the boards was D'Amico, who finished with eight rebounds ­two away from a double-double. 
"I felt like we had everybody 

Harris 
continued from page 24 
Dame's final 15 of the game, but his floater inside the lane with four seconds on the clock rimmed out. 
The Irish (2-2) lost their second straight after falling to North Carolina State, 61-48, on Nov. 26. 
"That one [miss] at the end hurts a lot, especially coming off where our team was last week," Quinn said. "But I think this was a lot better effort [than we had last game] as far as a team effort." 
Irish coach Mike Brey made adjustments with spacing on the offensive end of the floor to free up more scoring chances and cre­ate better flow. Notre Dame bene­fited by scoring 19 more points than it had in its previous outing and by returning to an inside-out mentality -at frrst. 
Center Torin Francis scored 26 points on 8-of-16 shooting, grab­bing 13 rebounds and making 6­of-7 free throws. Notre Dame fed Francis early, and he scored seven of the team's frrst 11 points. 
But again, as in the loss to North Carolina State, the opposing defense forced the ball away from the post and into the hands of Notre Dame's guards. And Michigan point guard Daniel Horton (7-of-14, seven assists) 'icored 13 of his 19 points in the ;econd half in addition to a drive­·md-kick assist that led to Harris' 
~hot. 
"I told tlwm [after the game] I 

hink we're better than last ·veek," Bn·y said. "It stings, and it ~hould stin:; tonight and for a ·.vhile. But we were fearless. We .ild some li·a.rless stuff today. and ~orne new facPs did it." 
Notre Danw's offense became one-dimen.~ional in the game's linal 10 min11tes. 
Freshman guard Kyle \1cAlarney :·onverted a driving ·ayup to tie :he game at 52 with 
8:17 remaiPing, and Quinn would ')e the only :;·ish player to s1~ore 'he remaind•·;-·Jfthe game. 
fhe Irish ,,•d 65-60 on a Quinn 3-pointer with 3:03 to go. But Wolverine• r.,rward Graham '1 rown (13 }Joints. 10 rebounds) -mred a 3-point play off an assist 
·rom point ;;uard Daniel Horton, .vho plagued Notre Dame in the second half, and Michigan was within two. 
going to the glass," Washington said. "They're a tremendous rebounding team, and for us to be able outrebound them speaks volumes about our effort and intensity on the glass." 
The game was close most of the way, as Notre Dame led just 42-39 at the half. Wisconsin fought back to tie it at 62 with 
8:50 to play in the game, but Notre Dame guard Breona Gray hit a 3-pointer to give the Irish the lead with 6:03 to play. And when Wisconsin cut the lead to 67-65, it was Duffy and Gaines who hit big shots, Gaines with the shot clock winding down. 
In front of a relatively large crowd of 5,455, the Irish found a way to get their second road win of the year. , 
"We knew coming into this place that Wisconsin's a tough place to play," Washington said. "They're a Big Ten team, so they're used to playing quality competition. We knew we would have our hands fulL" 
And with Notre Dame's sixth win of the year, Washington thinks this young Irish team is starting to figure out just what kind of team it is going to be this year. 
"I think this team is slowly finding itself and fmding its iden­tity," she said. "And I think one 
Quinn sank two free throws to stretch the lead to four with 2:19 remaining, but Brown made a layup and a tip-in on consecutive possessions to tie it at 67. Notre Dame freshman Luke Zeller, who had sank 2-of-3 shots from behind the arc in the game already, missed a 3-point attempt that gave Michigan the ball, which then led to the game-winning jumper. 
Irish guard Russell Carter was guarding Horton across halfcourt when Brey called for a 2-3 zone, intending to force Horton as a ball handler out of a 1-on-1 situation. 
Quinn stepped out to meet Horton and jumped to tip the pass 
to the corner, but no one remained in the corner to contest Harris. 
"We wanted to cheat a little bit, and [Horton] made a senior play," Brey said. 
Notre Dame had limited Horton and Harris, two experienced sen­iors, to 11 total shots in the first half. But the Irish even went to a box-and-one defense at points in the second half to contain Horton, with Quinn and freshman guard Kyle McAlarney sharing the responsibilities as primary defend­er. 
"We just tried to do anything to slow Horton down," Brey said. "It made somebody else make a play for them, instead of him making a play like he did at the end of the game." 
While Horton and Harris (12) combined for 31 points, Quinn received no help from his mate in the starting backcourt, Colin Falls. Falls did not get open all game and attempted only three shots, missing all of them. 
Falls' silence on the offensive end also contributed to Notre Dame's shooting 0-for-10 on 3­pointers in the first half, only the second time the Irish have not hit a first-half three during Brey's tenure. The last time was a 63-52 win over West Vrrginia on Jan. 7, 2004. 
Notre Dame started the game quicker than the initially sluggish Wolverines. who missed six of their first seven shots and commit­ted unforced turnovers. The Irish scored 18 points in the paints in that half but did not pull away fur­ther than eight with 11:59 remaining in the half . 
Michigan scored seven straight points out of a TV timeout at the 
3:50 mark to make the score 27­of our hallmarks is going to be that we are a true team. I think that everybody else is starting to see that. on any given night they can go out and make big plays. As they get their confidence night-in and night-out, I think we're going to be a tough team to defend." 
Notes: 

+ 
It is unclear when McGraw will be healthy enough to coach the Irish again. Notre Dame's next game is Wednesday night at Purdue before a week off for final exams. Then the Irish hit the road for the Duel in the Desert tournament, which starts Dec. 17. 

+ 
The Irish shot 55.1 percent Sunday, shooting 27 -for-49 from the field. These figures included Duffy's 5-for-14 shooting, which made the rest of"the team 22-for­35, an impressive shooting per­centage of 62.8 percent. The 


55.1 percent was the best shoot­ing percentage of any team Wisconsin has faced this season. 
+ Notre Dame shot 25 free throws, making 20 of them, good for 80 percent. Wisconsin, on the other hand, shot just 9-for-13 from the charity stripe. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
25. And McAlarney sank two free throws before half to go into the locker room with a 27-27 tie. 
Notre Dame is now 7-14 all-time against Michigan. 
Notes: 

+ Quinn's first of two free throws with 5:42 remaining made him the 44th player in program history to reach 1,000-points in his career. Francis is on his way to becoming No. 45, since his 22 points on Saturday increased his career total to 985-just 15 points shy. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

BCS 
continued from page 24 

hearing -scheduled for Wednesday -to discuss the controversial postseason sys­tem. Chairman Joe Barton, R-Texas, said his House Energy and Commerce sub­committee "cannot ignore" a system he described as 
"deeply flawed." 
The subcom­mittee also invited Weiberg to testify. And though Congress has investigated the BCS before, Wei berg believes any sig­nificant change in the system must occur through the consensus of its members. 
"It is true that we have a BCS arrangement that we have all accomplished its primary goal this year and also got six of the top seven teams in the final standings into BCS bowl games. 

"This particular year, of course, the at-large positions were really filled automati­cally under the rules that all of the conferences and Notre Dame agreed to," Weiberg said. 
The BCS selections, but not 
''There's a general feeling that the more you ask the standings formula to do outside of determining the I -2 matchup, the more it can lead to controversial situations. " 
Kevin Weiberg BCS coordinator 
agreed to -all 11 confer­ences, Notre Dame -for another four-year period past this one," Weiberg said. "And I really do believe the only way there will be change is if the conferences and Notre Dame agree to that change. 
"We really have collective support at this juncture of the 11 conferences and Notre Dame about the direction [of the BCS], so I don't think there is a conference that is pushing this matter. This I think is a little different per­haps than some of the other times when we've been asked to go to Washington, [D.C.]" 
Though it currently gov­erns four bowl games -five beginning next season -the BCS was originally founded to determine the national champion. The system 
Everyone is welcome and confidentiality is assured. *lunch will be served* 
their destina­tions, became predetermined when LSU and Virginia Tech lost Saturday to slide down in the final rank­ings. No. Notre Dame and No. 4 Ohio State both received automatic bids due to current 
BCS rules ­top-six, non­affiliated con­ference teams receive auto­matic bids, and 
so do top-four teams, regard­less of conference affiliation. 
Weiberg said the top-six rule that locked in Notre Dame has been in place since the BCS was first established. But Oregon finished at No. 5 and did not receive a BCS bowl bid, which challenges the rule that is sending the Buckeyes (9-2) to Tempe, Ariz. instead of a one-loss Ducks team. 
"There seemed to be some support for [ending the rule] this past year," Weiberg said. "There's a general feeling that the more you ask the standings formula to do out­side of determining the 1-2 matchup, the more it can lead to controversial situa­tions." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

unch and Conversation 
For Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Questioning Students at Notre Dame 

Thursday, December 8th 12:00 -1 : 30 p.m. 316 Coleman-Morse 
The Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites gay, lesbian, and bisexual members of the Notre Dame family, their friends, and supporters to an informal lunch and study break at 
the Co-Mo. 

Monday, December 5, 2005 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
JOCKULAR 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS 

AL 
(;rAVE. "/OU ~LI... IHE F~EE C.oMtAS\ '*-0\"\0\ION t\l... 
1\EI"\S ~\-\~ E:.'{\'5\. CAN v..IE.. PLE~SE. T~s1 IN'31AL'­-n-\ E. C.I'\SLE NO~. 
'SO-.'\\NC:! \HA\ \r 'I'JE 0.ET '\H E ~ AC.KAC:t E \J't \\\--1 A\_L T4E. tsPt-\~ ' ""E 
Los.E. "~PIKE'', "KT\12.'', AND'' 1-H:f(V", W~Ht\~ WE. Au.. ~u (?_E.E. \S 
"' 'S'\\..\~' \) C'r\J\NNEL C:,o ""''E. i:X>NT MINC \~ WE. Lc6E. \\. 
JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
KOPER 

I rJ I I 
102005 Tribune Med1a SeiVices, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
FLONE 

[IJ I I
tTYRRAM 

J [J I I 
www.jumble.com 
APEARD 
I I I 


HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

THE PRISON CLASS LE:ARN£:0 THAT THIS C.OME:S AT THE: E:ND OF A SE:NTE:NC.E:. 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Print ~ here: rIIIIIIJ 
(Answers tomorrow)  
Saturday's  Jumbles: Answer:  AROMA BUMPY ENTICE COHORT What the barber student learned when he cut the  
bald man's hair-NOT MUCH  

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CEU:BRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tyra Banks. 32; Marisa Tomei. 41; Jozef Sahovcik, 42: Jeff Bridges, 56 
Happy Birthday: Take a chance this year by gelling involved in something totally dil'rerent. This is a perfect year for a rmrtnership that will compliment you personally or professionally. This is a year ofgrowth and expansion. Your numbers are 8, 12, 23, 29, 36, 40 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Take a posilion lhal will put you in the driver's seat. Use your energy wisely and begin m~king some of the changes you've been planning to do to your home. Leave time to socialize. ** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Slay aclive loday. Downtime will lead to dissatisfaction. Visiting friends or auending an interesting cxhihil will stimulate ideas. A relationship with someone special will take an interesting turn. ***** GEMINI (May 21-,Junc 20): Put a little extra push on a pending deal. The more you do to posilion yourself. the heuer. An opportunity will develop through someone you used to work with. Emotional mailers can he dealt wilh. *** CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): Your emolions will take over. making it easier for you to lei olhers know your thoughts. This is a perfect day to explore the possibility of a new relationship. *** LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): You may find yourself thinking more ahnut someone you met through work. Don't miss oul on an opportunity because you don'l know how to approach this person. Your determination will bring good results. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Much will evolve from the conversations and interactions you have with others today. Gel involved in community evenls or social activities that interest people from all different backgrounds. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will be tempted 10 try smnelhing that is not good for you. Think before you take a chance that could ruin your reputation, relalionship or even your health. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You owe it to yourself and the one you love to pay a lillie auention to what life is really all about. A time to relax, share thoughts and understand what's best for you in the future will give you a lift. **** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Changes in your personal life will take you by surprise. hut will also help you make a decision you have hccn putting off. Secrets may be revealed, giving you a much better understanding. A partnership will develop. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): Consider what's best for you today. Doing things for someone else will leave you feeling cheated and may ruin the conneclion you have to this person. Get out and meet new people. *** AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Nothing will he out in the open or made available for you to see. You will have to acl on your own instincts, especially in relationships. Be observanl and listen to what someone else has to say. *** PISCES (Feb. 19-M arch 20): You'll have plenty of opportunities when it comes to love, friendship or even business partnerships. Money is coming in your direction hul not for the reason you expect. A fast reaction may he required. **** 
Birthday Hahy: You are solid and stable. with charm. insighl and a thought­provoking mind. You have skill in finding solutions, empowering olhcrs and seeing yourself and your loved ones through thick and thin. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfim. eugenia/ast.comforctmjidential ctmsultalitm.\ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Wood for Woods 5 Where to set books 1 o Community 
service group 14 Queue 15 Four-bagger 16 Pipe problem 17 Writer Wiesel 1B Breathing 19 Unnerve 20 Hopping mad 23 Mother hog 24 Chafes 25 Tear-jerking 
sentiment 27 In good spirits 30 Obliterate 32 Wrestling 
maneuvers 33 Lose-weight­fast plan 37 Antipollution org. 
38 About half of crossword clues 39 "Gotcha!" 
40 Step just before publishing an article 
43 Outranking 45 Sheets, tablecloths, etc. 46 Annual event at 43-Down 
Stadium 47 Frugality 50 Fed. watchdog 
since 1971 51 Motorists' org. 52 Change defeat 
into victory 58 Egyptian 
pyramids locale 60 Itinerary 61 One with a 
duster 62 Hawaiian strings 63 Tribal leader 64 Like good wine 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

65 Urge on 66 Visionaries 67 Prying 
DOWN 
1 Musical symbol 2 1953 Leslie 
Caron film 3 The "U" in I.C.U. 4 Visibly 
embarrassed 5 "Not too 6 The 18 in a 
round of 18 7 Send out B Strauss & 
Co. 9 Complimentary ticket 1oSanta's little 
helper 11 Tether 12 Musical 
instrument for the nonmusical 13 Distorts 21 Owned jointly by you and me 22 Sprint 26 One of the Kennedys 
27 Person who's often sent compliments 
28 Indian tribe with kachina dolls 29 Spirit 30 W.W. II German general Rommel 31 Sound off 33 Morse 
WILLSHORTZ 

42 Boost 50 Bewhiskered swimmer
43 See 46-Across 35 Roof overhang 53 Film part
44 Ferry operator 54 In the raw

36 Next 46 Wedding helpers 55 Shakespearean
38 They may sit in villain

47 Get ready to run, in baseball 56 Fizzles out 41 He could "float 
a glass at night 48 Three-line poem 57 Whirlpool

like a butterfly, sting like a bee" 49 Demolishes 59 Cigar waste 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1·800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1·888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
0· Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address ______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
,------­
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, December 5, 2005 
page 24 
fOOTBALL 

BCS slots Irish into Fiesta Bowl 
Irish have made big
No. 6 Notre Dame will play No. 4 Ohio State in Tempe, Ariz. on Jan. 2 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sporrs Writer 

One year after a 6-6 season ended the tenure of former coach Tyrone Willingham, Notre Dame has earned a trip to a BCS bowl under first-year head coach Charlie Weis and stafT. 
No. 5 Notre Dame faces No. 4 Ohio State in the Jan. 2 Fiesta Bowl at Sun Devil Stadium in Tempe, Ariz., it was announced Sunday evening. The site is close to where the Irish played last year when they lost 38-21 to Oregon State in the Insight Bowl, played at Bank One Ballpark in Phoenix. The team at the time, coached by defen­sive coordinator Kent Baer, said it was playing for Willingham, who was fired Nov. 30, 2004, just two days after the Irish had accepted the bowl bid. But this year's bowl game and Notre Dame team is very different from the one of a year ago. 
"I smile a lot more," Irish co­captain and fifth year senior season, compared to last year's 6-5 finish before the loss in the Insight Bowl. 

"We as a team realize where we came from and where we 
see FIESTA/page 21 
strides in one full season under Weis 
Anyone who said Notre Dame would be even close to a BCS bowl at the end of Charlie Weis' first season as coach probably would have been ridiculed back in September. 
Forth Worth, Shreveport or some other low­budget December destination 


looked like a safer bet Sports Editor for the Irish. 
Fiesta? That sounded more like an SYR theme than a realistic possibility for Notre Dame. 
But here they are. The Irish are headed back to 
see WEIS/page 21 
BCS coordinator Kevin Weiberg pleased with this year's selection process despite Congress 
Sunday's announcement of this evolving playoff formula slot­wouldn't be together in a bowl despite this year's "consensus" By PAT LEONARD 
year's matchups did not follow ted the consensus top two game if not for a BCS arrange­results. Sports Writer 
that lead. teams -USC and Texas -in ment," Weiberg said during a On Friday, the Associated BCS coordinator Kevin the national championship 6 p.m. EST teleconference fol­Press article reported the 
The Bowl Championship Weiberg, also the Big 12's con­game Rose Bowl. lowing the announcements. chairman of a congressional Series (BCS) generates annual ference commissioner, was "I really feel like we have a Critics as high up as Capitol subcommittee had called a controversy over the college especially pleased that the marquee championship game Hill are continuing to pressure football postseason. But 2005 version of the constantly of two unbeaten teams ... that the BCS and its methods see BCS/page 22 
MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Harris jumper beats Irish 
By PAT LEONARD Sporrs Writer 

Michigan guard Dion Harris sank a corner jump shot with 17 seconds remaining to take a 69-67 lead and send See Also the Wolverines 
to a 71_67 vic-"Quinn proves to 
tory in the be awarrior Joyce Center 
despite loss"
Saturday after­noon, despite page 19 Notre Dame's attempt at its own late-game heroics. 
Irish point guard Chris Quinn scored 26 points, including Notre 
see HARRIS/page 22 

Irish forward Rick Cornett guards Wolverines forward Courtney Sims in Saturday's 71-67 loss at the Joyce Center. 
ND WoMEN's BASKETBALL 
Duffy pushes Notre Dame past Badgers 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 

In their second game playing without head coach Muffet McGraw, the No. 11 Irish found a way to defeat Wisconsin 77­72 at the Kohl Center in Madison, Wis., winning their sixth straight game to open up the season. 
McGraw missed her second straight game due to illness and did not make the trip to Wisconsin. She also missed Tuesday's game at the Joyce Center against Iona. 
Irish associate head coach Coquese Washington, who coached the team for the sec­ond straight game in McGraw's absence, said she was content with her team's play on Sunday. 
"I was pretty pleased with our overall team play," Washington said. "We got a lot of contributions from every­body. It was a wonderful team effort and a big win. This was a huge win for us." 
Senior point guard Megan Duffy led all scorers with 20 points, including 9-for-1 0 from the free throw line and six free throws down the stretch. She 
see BADGERS/page 24 
en 
SMC BASKETBALl 
ND VOlLEYBALL
HOCKEY 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
MLB 
NFL 
The Irish advanced to 

The Los Angelos
North Park 55 
Notre Dame 3 

Duke 77 
Chiefs 31 
the Sweet 16 for the first 

Dodgers agreed to a
Saint Mary's 49 
Western 

Virginia Tech 75 
Broncos 27 
time since 1997 with a 

three-year deal with
The Belles struggled 
Michigan 0 

Blue Devils guard 
Larry Johnson rushed 
win over Northwestern. 

shortstop Rafael Furcal
shooting 23 percent 
Irish goalie Dave 

Sean Dockery hit a 
for two touchdowns as 
worth $39 million.
from the field in the 
Brown recorded his fifth 

game winning 40-footer 
the Kansas City Chiefs 
loss. 
career shutout in the 

to avoid the upset. 
stayed involved in the 
win. 
AFC playoff hunt. 

page 18 
page 18 
page 16
page 17 

page 14
page 15 







