
T~e Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
SENATE 
Representatives discuss new-turnover date 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
N,·w,Wiircr 
W!Hirwsday night's nwnting of' tlw Stud1~nt Snnal1~ was drawn out by dehat1~ over an anwrHinwnl to change stud1~nt govPrnrnPnt transition dates that !d'l'nctively polariznd the group. and ultimal!~ly !'ailed to pass after IJO minutes of dis­cussion. 
SiI' gf'I' i(' d S e IHLt 0 I' JameS I.Pito. spnaking f'or the CommittPP on Oversight, pre­SPntPd a resolution to change till' dat1~s on which tlw rnajori­ty of the student government organizations switch leaders. The major thrust of the amendment is changing the turrH>V111' date for student body ol'f'icnrs. the Student Union Board. Hall Presidents' Council, Judicial Council, off­campus officers and the Student S11natn !'rom April 1 to the day af'ter comnwncement. The proposed change comes in response to complaints that the inexperienced incoming offi­cers waste a month ol' produc­
see SENATE/page 4 



Bookstore Basketball sees changes 
entrance fees will go to the Jumpball program, which has offered free basketball clinics to hundreds of Jamaican children for the past decade. The charity, sponsored by the Notre Dame Club of Jamaica. strives to keep disadvantaged youth away from the drugs and violence in their neighborhoods. 
"Notre Dame challenges and inspires its students and extend­ed Notre Dame family to work for positive social change." said Anna Skoien. student liaison to Jumpball. "In this regard, the 
see CHARITY/page 6 

Teams will register through the Internet, avoiding former 'inconsistent' sign-up in LaFortune 

Tournament supports children in Jamaica 
By JARRETT LANTZ 
News Writer 
Amid the frenzy of NCAA March Madness, Notre Dame is preparing to tip off Bookstore Basketbail. the largest live-on­five basketball tournament in the world. 
This year. hopeful champions have an added incentive to sign up-to help children in Jamaica. 
A significant portion of team 
By JARRETT lANTZ 
N~w' Writer 
For tho first tinw. the Bookstore is utilizing Student Shop ND -a Web site which allows campus groups to sPll producL'i online ­for tlw Notn~ l>anw Bookstore B<L'iketbalf 'l(>urnarnent'H rngistra­tion. Each t1~1t1n is rnquin~d to pay the $20 registration fee through tho official Bookstore Basketball Web site by the end of Friday. 
The new online system will make registration more conven­ient for both the players and the organizers of the tournament. Now, students no longer need to wait in long lines to rogistnr. and can sign up their teams during 
Vartan Gregorian joins distinguished company 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
A"IS!.lll! Now' hlilqr 
In just under two months. Vartan c;n•gorian will giv1~ tlw prinripal spnPch at Notre llanw's I (J0th r.ommenconwnt nxPrcisns. joining a list of other acadnmics. governnwnt lead­ers. religious officials. joumal­ists and celebrities. 
According to Father Poter .Jarret, counselor to University President Father Edward Malloy (whose office selects the commencement spPaker), Notre Dame strives for diversity in its selection. 
"We try to lind someone from the political world. someone !'rom the academic world. somPorw from the entertain­nwnt industry; we look for a broad range over the course of the yPa•·s." he said. 
Although Crcgorian has served in a variety ol' roles. the majority of his career has been in academics. lie came to America to study at Stanford University. eventually earning his doctorate; from there, he 
see SPEAKER /page 6 
any time of the day using any computer. 
"In the past. we had sign-up times on certain dates. and the prncess was inconsistent," said Luke Maher. Bookstore Basketball Tournament Head Commissioner. "Some days we had no one sign up and some days we had lines winding through the halls of LaFortune." 
Thanks to the Student Shop ND online system, organization of the event will bn much easier. With an estimated 600 teams in each annual tournament, registering and recording each team's infor­mation on paper used to be ehal­
see REGISTER/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Kamms address prisoners' rights 
By KATIE PERRY 
News Writer 
When .John Kamm lnl't the security of a high-income ean;Pr in businnss to purstw th1~ more volatiln lifn of a human rights activist. hP may have swapped his bri1~f'casn for a suitcasP. But with him n~rnairwd tlw skills of' a salnsman, skills that would 11VPntuallv !Pad to tlw rn~ation of' till' !lui llua Foundation an<! subst~­qunnt SUCCCSSPS in tlw !Jnt­terrnent of jail conditions for Chinese political and n~ligious prisoners. 
In a fusion of the wits of a businessman. thn quest for truth and the passion for justice. Kamm and his wifP, Irene Chan Karnrn. have laid the groundwork for a unique. yet elTectiV!\ organ­ization with an unmistak­able charactm·. 
In the second part of tlw 2005 O'Grady t\sia Lecture Series. the Kamms gave a discussion Wednesday nnti­tlnd "Dui llua: The Stratngy and Technique of !Iuman Hights in China." 
The discussion Pmpha­sized llw innovative collab­oration bPtwenn John Kamm. tlw self-prodainwd "salnsman." and Chan Kamrn. who centers much of IH~ r r o In on morP con­cn1te tasks such as coordi­nating administration. )H'r­sonrwl and linancn. 
.John Kamm. tlw ex!'rutivP director of Dui llua. catngo­rizes the Foundation as a "mini-businPss" that 
sec KAMMS/pagc 4 


Coeducation pioneers reminisce 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
t\ NotJ·n Dame legend, a soft-spoken nun and a female alumna gathered in LaFortune WPdnesday night to reminisce about a special limn rwarly :15 years ago, whPn the Univnrsity l'irst opened its doors to women. 
About 25 students. most of them women. attended the panel discussion. which was sponsored by Pangborn llall and the history depart­ment. It featured University President Emeritus Father Theodore llesburgh. Sister 
see PANEL/page 6 

Thursday, March 17, 2005 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Predictions 

Today, as this year's Cinderellas dash your hopes at taking home $20,000 in that friendly pool, be cool. Ev'ry lit'll thing is gonna be alright, mon. Gab isn't the only gift we get on St. Patty's Day. Foresight is one of those lesser qualities Tim Dougherty handed down to us by the Celts (a little 
thing I like to call Sports Writer 
Notre Damus, my friends), though lads throughout the ages have often forgotten this thanks to 
the lethal combination of Guinness. Bailey's and the IRA. 
In my virtuosity, I've kept myself free of these hazards solely to keep you from sweating out those finals moments. 
Illinois will have a Fairleigh easy time today and the defense, led by Luther Head's thievery, will take the Illini into the elite eight. 
Elsewhere in the Chicago regional, Southern Illinois will have the second coolest nickname in the tournament. Gael? Fine by me, but, inspired by Iditarod champion lead dogs "Sox" and "Blue" (divinely referring to the regional city's two most awesome baseball teams in that order), the Salukis will advance. 
In the Albuquerque regional, though, the nwnber one-seeded Huskies of Washington will be too focused on the $500,000 they just gave their old football coach. That, combined with Nate Robinson's parents, will provide too much distraction for their star point guard to overcome, and even an Iron Will won't help these dogs make it through the weekend. 
Unfortunately for them, things will get worse when their football team sets an NCAA record for biggest lost ever on Sept. 24. 
On a related note, 12 seed George Washington will not uphold their end of the five-12 jinx and will ruin the possibil­ity of one of the most American sweet sixteen match-ups ever-forcing us to focus on West Virginia's six-foot, 11-inch giant Kevin Pittsnogle as our chief source of amusement. 
The Syracuse regional will be boring because Bonnie Bernstein said so in SIOC. However. the internet told me, "Badger, Badger, Badger, Badger, Badger, Badger, Badger, Badger, (Pan­ther), (Pan-ther)." No scary snakes here. Wisconsin will win on Friday. 
UNC will get to the Final Four. But, once there, they will immediately lose as they always do whenever I root for them. 
In Austin, Cincinnati will beat Iowa because of the strong play of seniors Jason Maxiell and Nick Williams. However, neither will graduate and will spend the rest of their lives playing bas­ketball in Europe with all of their old teammates. 
Vermont will still be mad at the disre­spect the tournament committee showed them in its 13 seed pairing with four­seeded Syracuse, but in my last clairvoy­ant assurance to you, Vermont will lose in a hard-fought game. Redemption will be its, however, by cutting down the nets as the grand master champion of coolest tournament nickname, the Catamounts. 
Oh yeah, St. Patrick's Day. Erin Go Bragh. Have fun. Carpe diem. I'll be working in The Observer office all night, missing the greatest holiday of the year, the greatest basketball day of the year, and "The O.C." Talk about Paddy's Lament. C'est Ia vie. At least I'm not French. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd. edu. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due ro a reponing error, Steffany Stenglein's name was spelled incorrectly in the March 16 edition of The Observer. 
Due ro an editing error, Jamie Ryan's name was spelled incorrectly in a caption in the March 16 edition ofThe Observer. The Observer regrets these errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DOES THE 'LUCK OF THE IRISH' MEAN TO YOU? 

Jonathan Medina 
sophomore Keenan 
"The magic you feel while walking on campus that draws you in. " 
OFFBEAT 

Robber jailed after using 
banana as weapon 

LONDON Robert 
Downey had the mask and 
the attitude to be a success­
ful robber. But he ruined the 
effect when he tried to stage 
a hold-up at his local book­
maker's shop -using a 
banana. 

Noting the suspicious bend 
in the so-called "weapon," 
the clerk calmly called the 
police and on Wednesday, 
Downey was jailed for near­
ly seven years for attempted 
robbery. 

Prosecutors at the trial at 
Southwark Crown Court in 
London said Downey, a drug 
addict, hatched his scheme 
TODAY a:: 
LIJ :::r:::: 
!;;: 
LIJ 
3: 
..J
c:c ..... (.) 0 
HIGH 42 
LOW 28 



Dan Pearson Katie Murphy Nikki Masciopinto 
junior junior sophomore Sorin Cavanaugh Pasquerilla West 
"Passing my "Happiness in "Being able to test on life." wake up on 
St. Patrick's Day." 

to buy more crack. 
Donning a mask, he head­ed for the bookmaker's shop, pausing only to get a banana from the greengro­cer on the way. 
Gas station bathroom offers royal touch 
WEST COVINA. Calif. ­As Paul Moghadan puts it, a good toilette is good for the bottom line. A chande­lier, faux travertine walls, silver columns and a mar­ble counter adorn the bath­room at his Chevron gas station in West Covina, some 20 miles east of Los Angeles. 
The walls are decorated in rich earth tones and blue stone tiles, giving the 10­foot-wide room a slight Tuscan ambiance -or maybe a touch of Vegas. 

"I wanted to give the rest­room the greatest look I could. I wanted to show how much I respect my customers," said Moghadan, 55, of San Dimas. "I started with Chevron in 1966, and they trained us back then that the No. 1 priority was the station bathroom. They stressed we should keep it clean and papered up." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


March 18th." 

IN BRIEF 
Israeli poet Yosefa Raz will read excerpts of her work today at 6 p.m. in the West Wing of the Saint Mary's dining hall. Haz will be followed by Israeli writer and peace activist Rela Mazali, who will give a talk entitled "Militarism. (;ender, and Anti-Militarist Activism in Israel." 
The men's tennis team will face o!T against Illinois today at 4 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Artist Cristina Cardenas will be~ giving the pn~se nta­tion "Strength and Struggle: Portraits of Women" today from 4 p.m. to 5:30 in the Galeria America in McKenna Ilall. 
Former Irish tenor Ronan Tynan is giving a concert tonight from 8 p.m. to 10 in the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. Country music singer Vince Gill and the Notre Dame Glee Club will also perform. For tickets, contact the DeBartolo box office at (574) 631-2800. 
The conference "Building Peace Through Interreligious Encou.nters" will take place from 9 a.m. to 7:30p.m. Friday in C-10:j in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The conference is sponsored by the Kroc Institute's Program in Religion, Conflict and Peacebuilding. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 



HIGH HIGH LOW LOW 
TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 





31 HIGH HIGH 20 LOW LOW 
Atlanta 42 I 36 Bos~on 40 I ~8 Chicago 45 I _34 Denver 51 I 28 Houston 66 I 46 Los Angeles 69 I 54 Minneapolis 34 1 29 New York 46 I 33 Philadelphia 49 I 33 Phoemx 75 I 54 Seattle 54 I 37 St. Louis 59 1 38 Tampa 71 1 59 Washington 50 1 36 
Thursday, March 17, 2005 
The Observer + NEWS page 3 

Scholar speaks on Mohatntned 
Visiting professor emphasizes Muslim prayer and faith traditions 
In addition, Bowering brieflyBy TRICIA DE GROOT detailed Mohammed's journey
News Writer 
to institute this prayer life and 
the difficulties in establishing 
After Wednesday's lecture on this daily practice. He con­the creativity of Mohammed, e! uded his discussion on Gerhard Bowering, S.J., pro­prayer by saying that it is fessor of Islamic Studies at something that deeply marks Yale University. continued the the Muslim community. Islam and Christianity series "It makes them conscience with a special focus on finding of their dependence on God God in prayer and devotion. and aware of the presence of Focusing on Islam God in their life," as a faith and way he said. of life. his lecture "[Prayer] is the Next, Bowering concentrated on described the
natural part of 

three of the five practice of fast­
their daily 

pillars of Islam: ing, a pillar that praynr, fasting and rhythm, and is is an internal pilgrimage. development and
like the rhythm of 
Bowering began something not 
a monk when he

with an introduc­explicitly noted in tion of prayer, says his hours." the Koran. desrribing it as Fasting, according ritual. personal to Bowering, is a
Gerhard Bowerlng

and mystic. All practice
professor

fully-prar:ticing Mohammed devel-
Muslims pray l'iv1~ times a day and have various 
o b s e r v ~~ d r e q u ire me n t s , including being processed by washings. praying in the direction of Mecca and a Sl~lJlWIICe of bowing and pros­tration. Prayer can be both an individual or communal prac­tice but nitlwr way, is seen as a public g1~sture. 
"It is the natural part of ttwir daily rhythm. and is like tlw rhythm of a monk when he says his hours." Bowering said. 
oped after encountering the Jewish tradi­tions on Yom Kippur and was then instituted in the month of Hamadan. 
Fasting for Muslims, explained Bowering, includes abstaining from food, drink and sexual relations from dawn to sunset for a period of about 30 days. Bowering stressed the strong impact fasting has on the community and not just the individual. 
Bowering then discussed the pilgrimage to Mecca. This pi!­
grimage is at a prescribed time where people come from all over and are seen as equal regardless of nationality, he said. Everyone dresses the same to show that they are all equal in God's eyes, according to Bowering, and they all par­ticipate in certain established rituals, including a sacrifice modeled after Abraham's sac­rifice. 
"These are rituals that bring all Muslims together of all national origins where they are seen as equals," said Bowering. 
In fact, said Bowering, pil­grimages once created a cos­mopolitan atmosphere and an opportunity for Muslims all around the world to share what was going on with regard to Muslims from their origin. 
"People have come from all cornr~rs of the Muslim worlds. especially in medieval times, to share news," said Bowering. 
Bowering concluded by emphasizing the deep depend­ence the Muslims place on God, their strong sense of responsibility for all members of their faith and their overall unification through their faith. The lecture was then opened up for questions and discus­sion. 
Contact Tricia de Groot at pdegroot@nd.edu 
ACLU says -war on drugs har111s 111others 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK -America's war on drugs is inflicting deep and disproportionate harm on women -most of them mothers -who are filling prisons in ever-rising numbers despite their typically minor roles in drug rings, the American Civil Liberties Union and two other groups contend in a major new report. 
The report, "Caught in the Net," is being released Thursday as the focus of a two-day nation­al conference in New York, bringing together criminal jus­tice officials, sentence-reform activists and other experts to consider its package of proposed legislative and policy changes. The report recommends expan­sion of treatment programs geared toward women. says incarceration should be a last resort, and urges more vigorous efforts to maintain ties between imprisoned mothers and their children. 
"Drug convictions have caused the number of women behind bars to explode, leaving in the rubble displaced children and overburdened families," the doc­ument says. 
The number of imprisoned women is increasing at a much faster rate than the number of men. mostly because of tougher drug laws. There were 101 ,000 women in state and federal pris­ons in 2003. an eight-fold increase since 1980; roughly one-third were drug ofl'cnders, compared to about one-fifth of male inmates. 
"Many of the drug conspiracy and accomplice laws wen~ creat­ed to go after the kingpins," said the ACLU women's righl'i project director. Lenora Lapidus. a lead author of the report. "But women who may simply be a girlfriend or wife are getting caught in the web as well. and sent to prison for very long times when all they may have done is answer the telephone." 
Lapidus acknowledged that legislation addressing the situa­tion would probably ner~d to be gender-neutral. But she and her lellow authors -from New York University Law School's Bnmnan C1mtcr ((l!' .lusticP and ttw advo­cacy group Break the Chains ­make a detailed case that exist­ing drug laws "have had specific. devastating and disparatr~ PlfecL-; on women." 
Among their contentions is that many women are ensnared in drug investigations despitP poripheral involvement, sumo­times solely bncause tlwy failed to turn in their partners to police: Sentencing laws fail to consider factors such as physical abuse or economic dependence that may draw wonwn into drug abuse or deter them from notify­ing authorities or a partner's drug activity. 
Stay in the Green Zone this St. Patrick's Day! If you choose to drink, keep it below a .06 BAC... and if you drink, DON'T DRIVE! 
UNIVERSITY OFPEERS NOTRE DAMEt:~~~~ 
P"LAR§LEARNINa
JUl...J ~~~PONSIBI-4E 
SocrALIZINO 



page 4 Thursday, March I7, 2005
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
tivity acclimating to their new jobs that the outgoing officers could have taken advantage of. However, the resolution does allow for incoming members of the Council of Representatives to approve the next year's budget, despite the fact that some will not yet have officially taken office. 
Dates for elections would also be modified, requiring all stu­dent body and the requirement that the incoming senators choose their committees and nominate rep­resenting members to other groups like COR and Faculty Senate before commencement, even though they will not be in term at the time. 

"It's senseless to say to some­one that's been elected for an entire year that they have to leave office before the second semester is over," Leito said in support of the resolution. "[The date change] would encourage better programming and pro­
ductivity during 
April." 

Fisher senator 
class elections to "It's senseless to Sujal Pandya ­take place before the loudest voice
say to someone
Spring Break. and of opposition all hall elections that's been elected when the issue (except Freshman for an entire year was previously 
Class Council) and discussed -still
that they have to
off-campus elec­stood against the 
tions to take leave office before amendment. place before April the second "It still hasn't 
1. met the burden of
semester is over." 
Leito outlined proof required to the amendment's amend a constitu­positive aspects, James Lelto tion," Pandya saying incoming Siegfried senator said. "The cons 
senators would have an extra two weeks of Senate meetings to observe before they must take office them­selves. The outgoing senators would use their year of experi­ence to capitalize on the extra time and wrap up some of their projects. 
It was specified, however, that the newly-elected senators would be expected to meet unofficially in April to get what Leito called "the administrative tasks" out of the way. By the end of the meeting, the resolu­tion was amended to include delved into political theory to weaken support for the resolu­tion, asking why the group should be striving to extend the unfavorable 'lame duck' period -the time after a new officer has been elected, but before he takes office, during which the outgoing officer is assumed to no longer have the mandate of the public. 

outweigh  the  
pros."  
Pandya  later  

Another point of dissent, voiced by Committee on Academic Affairs chair but non-voting member Vijay 
Ramanan, was that senators might not take advantage of the time shifted from the begin­ning to the end of their term. 
"If your professor hands out a syllabus at the beginning of the course that says there's going to be a test on March 3, but emails you a few weeks into the semester to say the test is pushed back until March 10, you're not going to study an extra week for it," Ramadan said. 
Senators hashed over the intricacies behind the resolu­tion, debating, among other things, whether the outgoing or incoming senators would be more likely to spend their unof­ficial, out-of-term .time working on student government issues. 
The final vote, which was taken to a role call, was 14-11 in favor of the resolution. However, because it was a con­stitutional amendment, a 2/3 majority was required for approval, and thus it failed to pass. 
The Senate did, however, approve a referendum on cre­ating a $5 per semester student fee, charged to each student's account, to fund the College Readership Program. The entire undergraduate student body can vote electronically Tuesday on whether they would be for or against such a fee. The vote decides little offi­cially, though, because it is ulti­mately the Officers of the University who can create fees, so the results of the referen­dum will be used just to inform Senate's decision on whether to pursue the idea. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
KaDlDlS 

continued from page 1 
reflects the day-to-day opera­tional patterns of prototypical for-profit organizations. 
"[My position] involves the skills of a businessman, or the skills used when one has to go out and sell something ­in this case an idea," Kamm said. 
This role of salesman, defined by Kamm as "some­one who sells to a consumer who does not believe they are in need of a product," involves marketing the demo­cratic ideals of human rights and justice to top-ranking Chinese government officials. 
"We take a business-like approach to the enterprise of human rights," Kamm said. 
Working in tandem with her husband, Chan Kamm brings her own strengths to the organization, namely in the more concrete financial aspects of business. 
The human rights founda­tion with a conglomerate spin was not established until nine years into John Kamm 's work as an activist. The birth of the organization was made possi­ble by the capitalization of a grant received from the Smith-Richardson Foundation. Kamm used grant money as the basis for his extensive research of pris­oners, a process he finds cru­cial to the success of those in the field. 
A 1992 meeting with the first minister in the Chinese Ministry of Justice as well as the Head of the Chinese Prison Bureau served as a catalyst for what would become one of the fundamen­tal principles of Kamm 's career. 
"We sat down in front of a stack of papers," Kamm recalled. "One official said, 'We have decided to answer any question you have about any prisoner.'" 
Kamm attributes China's willingness to divulge infor­mation as an attempt to bet­ter their relations with the international community. 
By 1993 it had become clear that immediate amelio­ration of conditions would become likely. il" not immi­nent, if a prisoner was asked about. Kamm said. 
"Prisoners who are asked about receive better treat­ment in prison than those who aren't," Kamm said. "This principle is universal all over the world." 
Since then, Kamm and the foundation he heads have used this premise to trans­form nameless prisoners into individuals famed for their incarceration. a conversion that will ultimately lead to an improvement in overall treat­ment; Kamm said. 
Through a clear-cut mission inspired by the philanthropic idealism of the Kamms. the Foundation has broader social aims than simply the legal and judicial circum­stances of Chinese prisoners. 
"[The Foundation] promotes transparency and accounta­bility," Kamm said. "Those are our goals." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 





Bookstore Basketball Team Registration 
$20 per team 

GO ONLINE to WW\V.ND.EDlJ/-~BKSTR !Q find out how to register your team! The online registration service will close at 11:59pm on Friday, so register your team today!!!
.. 

All registration \Vill take place online -paytnent by credit card. 
Captain's Ivleeting: Tuesday, I\1arch 29@ 7:30ptn, 101 Q,~,§,5!!t212. 






ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, March 17,2005 COMPILED fROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES 
page 5 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Intelligence agents leave main office 
BEIHUT, Lebanon -Syrian military intelli­gence ag(~nts abandoned their head oflice in Beirut Wednesday, boarding buses and driving out of the Lebanese capital in line with <h~nutnds by the United States and the Lnbanesn opposition. 
lntcdligcnce agents and oflicers left in two buses and several cars just before noon, ending an 18-year presence in Beirut. 
Shortly after they left, several Lebanese entered the compound and raised a Lebanese 11ag and pictures of Halik llariri, the former prime minister whose assassinated in a mas­siv(~ bombing in Beirut last month sparked anli-Syrian protesl'>. 
Plainclothes Lebanese security men later posted signs tdling whoever owned property in tlw compound to contact the Lebanese army. l.ikn all Syrian military positions, the buildings had been taken over -but not purchased ­when the Syrian intelligence agents arrived in (lJ87. 
Italian troops may leave Iraq 
HOME -Italy, one of Washington's most stal­wart allies in Iraq, announced it could begin pulling its troops out in September, an acknowlndgmcnt by Premier Silvio Berlusconi that Italian public opinion is heavily against the war. 
Tlw announcPnwnt Tuesday by the conserva­tive leader was thn most high-prolile crack in what the U.S. administration has boasted in the past was a solid alliance. The Netherlands is (~nding its mission this month, and Poland plans to withdraw some troops in July. 
"Starting with the month of September, we would like to proceed with a gradual reduction of our soldiers," on condition that Iraq could provide "acceptable" security, Berlusconi said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Senate votes on Alaskan wildlife 
WASHINGTON -Mindful of rising oil and giL'>olirw prices, a sharply divided Senate is about to decide whether to give oil companies access to an ecologically rich Alaska wildlife refuge that could be one of the country's biggest oil fields. 
"We believe we have the votes," said Sen. Ted Stevens, H-Alaska, who for more than two decades has tried to persuade Congress to authorize lease sales in the Arctic National Wildlife Hefuge. President Eisenhower placed the 1.5 million acres of coastal plain under fed­eral protnction in 1960. 
Drilling supporters argue that the refuge's oil will reduce U.S. reliance on imports. Opponents say it will hardly make a dent in the more than 120 million barrels of oil the country uses each day while posing a threat to what environmen­talisl'> regard as an ecological treasure. 
Two-thirds of panel receives grants 
WASIIINGTON -1\vo-thirds of the members serving on an expert medical panel investigating a U.S.-funded AIDS study are receiving grant money from the federal agency at the center of the probe, according to documents and inter­views. 
The Institute of Medicine said it was aware of the financial ties with six of the nine members of il'i expert panel but approved their participation because they have special expertise, receive only a minority of their overall funding from the National Institutes of Health and won their grants competitively. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Minority leader hopes to return 
INDIANAPOLIS-House Minority Leader Patrick Bauer said Wednesday he hoped to be back at the Statehouse early next week as he recovers from colon surgery. 
Bauer said in a statement that he had internal blending caused by diverticulitis, the swelling of small pouches that bulge out of the colon through weak spots. Bauer. a Democrat from South Bend, said he underwent surgery to stop the bleeding and that doctors removed part of his colon. 
Peterson sentenced to death 
Within 48 hours the criminal is expected to be sent to San Quetin State Prison 
Associated Press 
HEDWOOD CITY, Calif. ­A judge formally sentenced Scott Peterson to death Wednesday after family members got into a shout­ing match and Laci Peterson's mother sobbed as she called her son-in-law "an evil murderer." 
Judge Alfred A. Delucchi allowed only Laci's family members to speak at the hearing after indicating he believed the death penalty was warranted. 
Peterson's father yelled from the audience as Laci's brother, Brent Rocha, spoke to the court, saying "Laci and Conner are the true victims here." 
"What a liar!" Lee Peterson said before the judge admonished him and he walked out of the court­room. Jackie Peterson, Scott Peterson's mother, also interrupted Hocha but her voice was inaudible. 
Scott Peterson, 32, was invited to make a state­ment. After several minutes of discussion with his attor­neys, he declined. 
Delucchi denied a defense request for a new trial before upholding the jury's recommendation that Peterson be sentenced to death. 

"The court is satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt overlooks the same bay longer wanted Laci did not hate Laci and Conner that that the defendant, Scott where Laci Peterson's body give you the right to murder much or did you just dislike Lee Peterson, is guilty of was discarded. her," Sharon Rocha said. yourself?" first-degree murder" and Laci's mother, Sharon "She was my daughter ... I Peterson's attorney, Mark second degree, Delucchi Rocha, sobbed and trem­trusted you, and you Geragos, tried to get the said, adding that he found bled from a podium as she betrayed me You judge to allow Peterson's the killings "were cruel, lashed out at her former betrayed everybody." parents. Jackie and Lee uncaring, heartless and cal­son-in-law. Scott Peterson Peterson was convicted in Peterson, to speak, on the lous." stared back at her without November of first-degree basis that they were related 
Peterson, shackled at the emotion. murder in the killing of Laci to Conner. waist and wearing a dark "You decided to throw and second-degree murder But the judge said the suit, showed no emotion Laci and Conner away, dis­for the slaying of her fetus. hearing was an opportunity throughout the hearing. pose of them like they were A jury recommended the for Laci's relatives to speak 
Peterson will probably be just a piece of garbage," she death penalty a month later. only. lie ordered Scott sent to death row at San said. "You were ~rong; Hocha spoke to Scott Peterson to pay $10,000 Quentin State Prison within dead wrong." Peterson directly. restitution for funeral 48 hours, said San Mateo Dabbing at her eyes with "I would hope that you expenses and an additional County Sheriff's Lt. Lisa tissues, she called him "an regret the choices that you $5,000, though the reason Williams. evil murderer." made. Maybe you don't," for that amount was unex­
The infamous lockup "The fact that you no Hocha said. "Did you really plained. 

IRAQ 

Elected national assembly convenes 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD -Iraq's first freely elected parliament in half a century began its opening session Wednesday after a series of explo­sions targeted the gathering. President Bush called the session a "bright moment" for Iraq, but added there was no timetable for withdrawing U.S. troops. 
The parliament's 27 5 members, elected during Jan. 30 balloting, convened in an auditorium amid tight security in the heavily guard­ed Green Zone with U.S. helicopter gunships hovering overhead. 
The lawmakers opened the tele­vised meeting with a reading of verses from the Quran. 
The new legislators wore flowing Arab robes trimmed in gold, black turbans of the Shiite clergy and dark Western business suits. Nearly all the 85 women present wore headscarves. 

Standing on a stage adorned with Iraqi flags and bouquets of red and white flowers, Iraqi Chief Justice Medhat a! Mahmoud administered the oath to the assembled deputies. 
The lawmakers held a copy of the oath in their hands as they swore: 
"In the name of God, I swear to carry out my duties and legal responsibilities diligently. I swear to protect the sovereignty of Iraq and the interests of its people and to protects its land and air, its natural resources and its federal democrat­ic system. I also swear to protect public and private liberties and the independence of the judiciary sys-tern and to carry out the country's laws, so help me God." 
In Washington, Bush congratulat­ed the new legislators, saying, "We've always said this is a process and today was a step in that process. It's a hopeful moment." 
Kurdish delegate Fuad Masoum called it "a great day in Iraqi histo­ry." 
"This day coincides with a painful memory that has many meanings. ... Today, on this occasion. we cele­brate the inauguration of parlia­ment after the fall of this regime," he said. 
Wednesday marked the anniver­sary of the Saddam llusscin­ordered chemical attack in 1988 on the northern Kurdish town of Halabja, an attack that killed 5.000 people. 

Thursday, March 17, 2005

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Charity 
continued from page 1 
Jumpball program is a perfect fit for Bookstore Basketball." 
Bookstore Basketball began asking its participants to donate to Jumpball in 2002. In 2004, tournament coordinators decid­ed each team should make a uniform contribution, and this year, five dollars from each team's registration fee will be donated to the charity. 
In the past, the tournament has donated a total of $2,000 to $3,000 dollars to the charity. Its organizers are hoping for the same results this year. 
"It is our goal to one day have the Jumpball program entirely and have left lasting legacies behind them.

Panel 
Sister Jean Lenz, the first female rector of Farley Hall,
continued from page 1 
spoke proudly of the first 
women she watched over -a Jean Lenz and 1976 graduate group that contained future Jill Donnelly. judges, doctors and lawyers. 
Having been an all-male "I always felt I was with a institution for 135 years, special group of young Notre Dame's transition to a women," Lenz said. "I can co-ed institution was lengthy count 22 doctors in the 10 and not without opposition, years I was rectress. And Hesburgh said. Hesburgh many of those women married spearheaded the plan during and had children." his tenure and originally Although the first women believed a merger between that walked the quads of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame Notre Dame were clearly in was the best the minority, way to bring Donnelly said
"The student body is 
women to the · this was not 
campus. much better today than necessarily a 
"I got before co-education, drawback. together with "In some of
and the reason is
the nuns at my classes, I
because halfthe
Saint Mary's, was the only and we agreed students are women. woman," in principle Donnelly said.
It's a simple fact." 
that we would "The male merge," Hes­students val­
burgh said. Father Theodore Hesburgh ued my per­"But as con­University President spective on versations discussions, as
Emeritus 
went on, as soon as we would get close to closing the deal, the nuns said they need­ed more money, more build­ings or that they didn't want to lose their name." 
After a year of weekly con­versations that showed little progress, Hesburgh gave up, and Saint Mary's was left on its own. A few years later, Notre Dame admitted its first class of women. 
They were welcomed as aca­demic equals, and perhaps they were just what the University needed to tame.the men of Notre Dame, Hesburgh said. 
"I had started to notice that the longer I was at Notre Dame, the more brutish the men were becoming,': he said. "Without women, men degen­erate into something less than human. That's why God put women here, because he did­n't want the world to be a zoo." 
Since the fall of 1972, when only a few hundred females were enrolled, thousands of women have been handed their Notre Dame diplomas 


Register 
continued from page I 
lenging for the commissioners. The new computer system solves this problem by keeping track of each team's statistics and their registration information. 
funded by Notre Dame's Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment," Skoien said. 
However, many Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross stu­dents don't realize the basket­ball tournament is connected to a charity. 
''I'd love to say that people are excited to participate because of the charity," said Amy Geist, Student Groups Coordinator at the Student Activities Office. "But we've found that not many people are aware of the Jumpball program." 
For this year's tournament, organizers hope to change that by adopting a "We Play So They Can Play" motto on clothing and by including Jumpball informa­tion with the Bookstore Basketball materials. 
"We're hoping to educate the 
did my profes­
sors. The men were respectful and tried to impress every woman on cam­pus." 
Still, all three panel mem­bers agreed the transition was sometimes met with opposi­tion -from professors, stu­dents and alum­ni alike -who 
believed  the  "The male students  tion, and the rea­ 
presence of women at Notre Dame was not  valued my perspective on  son is because half the students are women," he  
necessary.  discussions, as did  said. "It's a sim­ 
"In my eco­nomics class, I  my professors. "  ple fact." Inscribed on  a  
had gotten an A on every exam,  Jill Donnelly  rock at the Grotto are words  
but my midterm  alumna  of thanksgiving  
grade was a B-,''  class of 1976  from  the  first  
Donnelly  said.  women admitted  
"The professor  to Notre Dame:  

said it was because I had poor "We are and forever will be attendance, but I always sat in grateful daughters of our the front row and had never Notre Dame du Lac." missed a class. He refused to And that inscription lays change the grade." beneath a statue of the Virgin 
Despite the fact that Mary, the namesake of the Donnelly's stubborn professor institution -a woman herself. cost her an A, Donnelly and her female coeds were some of the best and the brightest in Contact Mary Kate Malone at the riation. Small female quo-mmalone3@nd.edu 
Although some veteran Bookstore Basketball players might be wary of the unfamiliar registration process, the commis­sioners have assured students that it will be faster, more con­venient and less likely to cause errors than the old paper system.' 
"Thus far there haven't been any issues with the registration process, so we think that's a good tournament participants about Jumpball so they will know where the money is going," Geist said. 
So far, Notre Dame is the only university affiliated with Jumpball, but the program may be receiving more fundraising help from other sources in the future. Thanks to Bookstore Basketball's success at Notre Dame, other schools have been looking to start their own tour­naments. 
"I was contacted by a student at Princeton University who was trying to start up a similar tour­nament there," Geist said. "Last year I spoke with someone else at a school in Kentucky about it, too." 
Contact Jarrett Lantz at jlantz2@nd.edu 
tas made admissions highly competitive in the early years and created classes filled with bright women. 
"In the beginning women were superior to the men. They took the cream of the crop across the [United States]," Lenz said. "The women had the brains [and] the men were more average." 
As the years have passed, women have comfortably blended into the Notre Dame culture. But Hesburgh believes women need to continue pur­suing more leadership posi­tions, both on campus and in the business world. 
"We need a few more Joan Kroes [2003 donor of $70 mil­lion]," he said. "Eighty percent of our alumni support comes from men." 
The conversation progressed into the topic of single sex dorms and parietals, a philos­ophy firmly advocated by Hesburgh but often opposed by students. 
"I just think that come 12 o'clock, you ought to have some time for yourself to make friends you'll have for the rest of your lives," Hesburgh said. 
As the discussion concluded, firm conviction resonated from Hesburgh's voice as he praised the University for its inclusion of women. 
"The student body is much 
better today than 
before co-educa­
sign,'' said Amy Geist. Student Groups Coordinator at the Student Activities Office. 
To register a team, visit http://www.nd.edu/-bkstr/ by Friday. The new registration process requires teams to pay the $20 using a credit card. 
Contact Jarrett Lantz at jlantz2@nd.edu 

ingly well known, coming from all walks of life,'' including the

Speaker 

aforementioned academic offi­continued from page l cials. 
As for governmental figures taught at various universities, (besides presidents), the ultimately serving as Brown University has welcomed, most University's president. notably, Henry Cabot Lodge in 
Notre Dame has welcomed 1962, Eugene McCarthy in other academic officials in the 1967, the president of El past, such as former Yale Salvador (and Notr.e Dame University presi·-alumnus) Jose dent Kingman Napoleon Duarte
"Gregorian's
Brewster, Jr. in in 1985 and U.N. 1972, former advantage is that he Secretary-General Harvard Kofi Annan in
demonstrates [the 
University Pres­2000.
University's] central 
ident Derek Bok In keeping with in 1987 and commitment to its Catholic mis­Stanfor:d Provost educational values." sion, Notre Dame (now Secretary hosted Chicago of State) Cardinal Joseph Condoleezza A. James McAdams Bernardin in 
Rice, a Notre director 1983; in 1986, Bishop
Dame alumna. Nanovic Institute for James 
Jarret said Malone addressed
European Studies 
Notre  Dame's  
emphasis  on  
intellectualism in  choosing  
commencement  speakers  

reflects the University's values. 
"Given Notre Dame's academ­ic reputation," he said, "that's the type of person that would come here." 
Professor A. James McAdams, the director of the Nanovic Institute for European Studies, said he thinks Gregorian is "a terrific choice" because of his background in higher educa­tion, and his ability to "speak directly and with authority to some 

of the intellectual traditions for  "[W)e seek to honor  looks for a com­mencement  
which Notre Dame  individuals who  speaker who has  
is highly regard­ have made  somehow  made  
ed." "I know that, at times, some stu­ significant contributions to  an impact. " ... [W]e seek to honor individuals  
dents  would  our world."  who have made  
rather  have  a  significant contri­ 
speaker who is widely known among the general  Dennis Brown associate director  butions to our world," Brown said. "Some of  
public, such as  a  • Notre Dame News and  these people  are  
glossy, glitzy and  Information  more well-known  

glamorous per­sonality from the entertainment industry," he said. '' ... Gregorian's advantage is that he demonstrates [the University's] central commit­ment to educational values." 
Notre Dame's early com­mencement speakers were not very well known, "with one exception," according to a 2001 press release by Dennis Brown, associate director of Notre Dame News and Information. 
Civil War General William Tecumseh Sherman, who had sent two sons to Notre Dame and a daughter to Saint Mary's· during the war, addressed the graduating class of 1865. One of his sons had died in 1863, making the visit, according to Brown, "emotionally trying" for Sherman. 
"The New York Tablet report­~d that Sherman received a 'hearty cheer' from the Notre Dame students," Brown wrote. "He spoke at length of the 'dan­gers of the battle of life' await­ing the graduates, but assured them of the 'final triumph of the rigla. "' 
In the 20th century, Notre Dame began to attract various government officials, eventually hosting Presidents Eisenhower (1960), Carter (1977), Reagan (1981), George H. Bush (1992) and George W. Bush (2001). John F. Kennedy spoke in 1950 as a congressman. 
In addition, the University has hosted Dr. William Mayo, co-founder of the Mayo Clinic (1936); FBI director J. Edgar Hoover (1942) and Supreme Court Chief Justice Earl Warren (1957). 
According to Brown's release, since 1960, the commencement speakers have been "increas­the graduates. 

Notre Dame has not been without McAdams' so-· called "glitzy and glamorous" celebrity commencement speakers, such as actor Bill Cosby in 1990 and former com­missioner of baseball Peter Ueberroth in 1989. 
From the field of journalism came William Buckley, Jr. in 1978, Tom Brokaw in 1993. Mark Sheilds in 1997 and Tim Russert in 2002. 
Whether or not Notre Dame chooses a "household name,'' 
said Brown, the 
University always 
than others, but 

all of them are extraordinarily accomplished in their fields." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffyl@nd.edu 

Scmday March 20 • 7:30 p.m. Morris Ptrforming Arts Ctnttr South Btnd, Indiana 
. THIS SUNDAY! GOOD TICKETS STILL AVAILABLE! 
Tlckcrts avoiloblcz ot t1orri.1 Box Office Chorgq by phonq 574/235-9190 or 800/537-6415 on-lincz at www.morriscvntcrr.org 
...:.~-~~h;?j ,.;, 

Thursday, March 17, 2005 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 
Jones 10,637.66 -107.44 
-~ 
~ Same: Oown: Composite Volume: 996 162 • 1,152,227,712 

AMEX 1,486.06 +3.47 NASDAQ 2,017.23 -17.75 NYSE. 
7,265.81 -44.60 S&PSOO I, 187.57 -10.18 NIKKE.I(Tokyo) 11,873.18 +52.09 FTSE. IOO(London) 4, 9 3 7. 60 -62.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE NASDAQ 1001R SER I (QQQQ) -1.05 -0.39 36.65 RESEARCH IN MOTION (RJMM) + 18.47 + 12.39 79.48 MICROSOFr CP (MSFT) -0.60 -0.15 24.76 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.96 -0.23 23.65 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -1.26 
-0 21 I 8.02. 


30-YEAR BOND 
-0.37 -0.18 47.95 10-YEARNOTE 
-0.53 -0.24 45.1 B 5-YEARNOTE -0.78 -0.33 41.84 3-MONTH BILL -0.18 -0.05 27.32 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) 
+ 1.20 55.05 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) 
+2.80 441.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.85 91.20 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 
104.1300 EURO 
0.7454 POUND 
0.5195 CANADIAN$ 
1.2036 

IN BRIEF 
Amercians electronically pay taxes 
NEW YOHK-/\s more Americans file their 
taxes electronically. they're also more likely to 
use credit and debit cards to pay the taxes 
due. 
Many consumers find that using plastic is 
convenient and also boosts their rewards 
points. On the other hand, credit experts 
worry that the trend suggests more people are 
digging themselves deeper into debt. 
The Internal Hevenue Service said it 
received 950,715 credit and debit card pay­
ments in 2004, triple the volume of 2002. An 
additional 834,000 payments last year were 
automatically transferred from checking or 
savings accounts, the lHS said. 
"The country is moving toward becoming a cashless society," said James H. Weaver, chair­man and chief executive of Tier Technologies of Heston. Va., which does card processing of IHS payments. "We're seeing more than 20 percent growth a year, and we would expect that type of growth to continue for the fore­seeable future." 
Oil prices hurt GM's outlook 
NEW YOHK -Wall Street stumbled Wednesday after crude oil prices shot up to another new high. passing $56 a barrel and rais­ing the specter of higher inflation and interest rates. General Motors Corp.'s grim outlook for its first quarter took an added toll on the Dow Jones industrials, which fell more than 110 points. 
Investors were already inclined to sell follow­ing the Commerce Department's report that the 
U.S. deficit in the broadest measure of interna­tional trade soared to a record $665.9 billion last year. 25.5 percent above the previous record set in 2003. The growing deficit is bad for the dollar and, Wall Street feared, could be an indicator of inflation. 
The breadth of the market's decline suggested investors were interpreting the surge in oil prices as a warning sign that inflation could be the next big worry for the economy, analysts said. 
Oil prices had started the day lower after OPEC ministers said they would increase output, but the price of crude jumped $1.41 to close at $56.46 a barrel in New York. a new high, after the Department of Energy released data showing domestic supplies of gasoline and heating oil fell sharply last week. 

THE OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 
JAPAN 

Cell phone capabilites advance 
Owners are able to use mobile devices for reading a wide variety of novels 
Associated Press 
TOKYO -Your eyes 
probably hurt just think­
ing about it: Tens of thou­
sands of Japanese cell­
phone owners are poring 
over full-length novels on 
their tiny screens 
In this technology-enam­ored nation. the mobile phone has become so widespread as an enter­tainment and communica­tion device that reading e­mail. news headlines and weather forecasts rather advanced mobile features by global stan­dards -is routine. 
Now, Japan's cell-phone users are turning pages. 
Several mobile Web sites offer hundreds of novels -classics, best sellers and some works written especially for the medium. 
It takes some getting used to. Only a few lines pop up at a time because the phone screen is about half the size of a business card. 
But improvements in the quality of liquid-crystal displays and features such as automatic page-flip­ping, or scrolling, make the endeavor far more enjoyable than you'd imagine. 

In the latest versions. cell-phone novels are downloaded in short Such times could be just language study programs which means "All You Can installments and run on around the corner in the and Prima Games video Read Paperbacks." It handsets as Java-based United States. where cell game strategy guides. began the service in 2003 applications. You're free phones are become Cell-phone books are and saw interest grow last to browse as though increasingly used for also gradually starting to year. There are now about you're in a bookstore, relaying data, including get traction in China and 50,000 subscribers. whether you're at home, video, digital photos and South Korea. In Japan, "It's hard to understand in your office or on a com­music. though, some people are unless you try it out." 
muter train. A whole U.S. publisher Random really getting hooked, Kajita said, adding that library can be tucked House recently bought a finding the phone an inti­the handset's backlightaway in your cell phone -stake in VOCEL, a San mate tool for reading. allows people to read with a gadget you carry around Diego-based company that It's especially effective the lights off -a conven· anyway. provides such mobile­for intensifying the thrills ience that delights parents 
"You can read whenever phone products as of a horror story, said who like to read near you have a spare moment. Scholastic Aptitude Test Satoko Kajita, who over­sleeping infants. and you don't even need preparation programs. sees content development Users can search by to use both hands," says Random House also said it at Bandai Networks Co. author, title and genre. Taro Matsumura, a 24-reached licensing Ltd. and readers can write year-old graduate student arrangements with VOCEL The Tokyo-based wire­reviews. send fan mail to who sometimes reads to provide cell-phone less service provider offers authors and request what essays and serial novels access to the publisher's 150 books on its site, they want to read. all from on his phone. Living Language foreign called "Bunko Yomihodai," their phones. 

Black customers unfairly charged 
Associated Press 
ASHVILLE, Tenn. -A federal judge said Wednesday that the plaintiffs in a class-action suit had proved a lending affiliate of the Ford Motor Co. discriminated against black customers by charg­ing them higher rates on car loans. 
After a two-week trial, U.S. District Judge Aleta Trauger said she would rule against Primus Automotive Financial Services, a unit of the Ford Motor Credit Corp., but first would give the two sides 30 days to negotiate a settle­ment to end the discrimination. 
"What I have decided is that the plaintiffs have proved their case and that they will win in my deci­sion," Trauger said. 

The lawsuit lists 11 named plain­tiffs, but attorneys said thousands of black customers were discrimi­nated against and are included in the class. Attorneys said the cus­tomers were unfairly charged hun­dreds of thousands of dollars more than they should have been on car loans. 
The plaintiffs sought an end to discriminatory practices rather than damages, but Primus must pay attorney fees. 
Primus spokeswoman Meredith Libbey said the company disagreed with the judge's conclusions. "We uphold the highest standards of fair lending," Libbey said in a statement. 
Lead plaintiff lawyer Clint Watkins declined to comment. 
Ford Motor Credit also offers car loans under several other brands, including Jaguar Credit, Volvo Car Finance. Mazda American Credit and Land Rover Capital Group. 
Several lawsuits alleging discrim­ination against blacks have been filed against financing companies for various automakers nationwide since 1998, resulting in five out-of­court settlements. The class-action suit against Primus was the first to go to trial. 
The settlements in the other cases have included company agreements to place caps on the interest rate markups that dealers can make on loans. 

page 8 Thursday, March 17, 2005
The Observer • NEWS 
GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 


Group debates insurance 
several options in response to By PAUL SPADAFORA the price increase. Two of the 
News Writer 
proposed options, an increase in deductible payments to $250 
Concerns over the nsrng dollars per visit and a decrease costs of University-sponsored in pharmaceutical coverage, health insurance premiums were met with misgivings by and their effects on graduate the GSU. students were the principal The deductible increase, 
focus of the 
Graduate Student 
Union meeting "If we make this 
Wednesday. change, we will 
In the most 
never be able to get 
recent change to 
the current our benefits back." 
health insurance 
policy, graduate 
Misty Schleberle 
student premi­

GSU member 
ums have been raised to $1179 per year, an 18 percent increase from last year's premium of $999 per year. 
GSU president John Young described the premium increase as a response by Mega Health Insurance to increased usage of the plan in the last year. 
This year, graduate students on the plan have filed approxi­mately $637,000 dollars in. claims, as opposed to the 2003­2004 estimates of $367,000. 
"As of last month, our utiliza­tion of the plan has gone up substantially," Young said. "Because of the increase in usage, Mega [Health Insurance] has increased the premium." 
The GSU was presented with Schieberle said the unintended effect of reducing the premium 
"Because ofthe
would be that the will take our benefits currently increase in usage, opinion into con­held by policy­sideration."
Mega [Health 
holders would In other GSU
Insurance] has 
never be recover­news: able. increased the +Young re­
"If we make this premium. quested that change, we will graduate students never be able to interested in 

John Young
get our benefits being part of the back." Schieberle GSU president GSU consider 
said. 
The proposed reduction in pharmacy benefits was also .considered to be inef­fective by the council. Young said the smallest reduction in benefits, $1500 per year. would adversely affect many students 



LEBENDB 
while reducing the premium five percent from the anticipated increase, was viewed as an impractical solu­tion because of the possible detri­ment to the poli­cy's benefits. 
GSU council member Misty 
in the graduate school. 
"Fifty-nine students are cur­rently covered for greater than $1500 dollars in medication per year," Young said. " ... where this really hurts people is that three of the 59 pay over $1500 per month for medica­tion." 
The GSU voted unanimously to recommend accepting the full 18 percent increase as opposed to a deductible increase or pharmaceutical benefit decrease. The vote itself does not determine University policy towards health care, but Young said the graduate school is likely to lis­ten to the concerns of the GSU. 
"Last year. [the graduate school) followed the recom­mendation of the GSU... espe­cially if we are unanimous, they 
assembling a tick­
et to run .for the 2005-2006 GSU administra­tion. Interested parties may file nominations until March 22. 
Contact Paul Spadafora at pspadafo@nd.edu 
PHILIPPINES 

Guerrillas training for terrorist attacks 
Associated Press 

MANILA -Members of the Muslim militant group Abu Sayyaf have trained in scuba diving to prepare for possible seaborne terror attacks out­side the country, the Philippine military said Thursday, citing the interrogation of a captured guerrilla. 
The al-Qaida-linked mili­tants also received at least $18,500 over the past year from suspected members of the regional terror group Jemaah Islamiyah for explo­sives training, according to a report on the interrogation of Gamal Baharan, which was obtained by The Associated Press. 
Baharan, 35, also said that an Abu Sayyaf leader still at large, Khadaffi Janjalani, claimed to speak directly with al-Qaida leader Osama bin Laden via satellite phone, according to the report. 
Baharan is one of three sus­pects captured and charged last month for bomb attacks that killed eight people and wounded more than 100 on Feb. 14 in Manila and two southern cities. Abu Sayyaf said it launched the attacks to retaliate for military assaults on Muslim rebels in the south­ern Philippines. 
Although the militants' ranks have been largely depleted by U.S.-backed military assaults, the government still considers the group a major threat. 
Such concerns were high­lighted by a botched jailbreak Monday in which Abu Sayyaf suspects seized guards' weapons in a melee that left five people dead. An ensuing 29-hour standoff ended when police stormed the prison in a hail of gunfire Tuesday and killed 22 inmates. including three prominent Abu Sayyaf commanders. 
According to the military report, Baharan said Abu Sayyaf leaders Janjalani and Abu Sulaiman, working with Jemaah lslamiyah, had initiat­ed scuba training for seasoned guerrillas to prepare for seaborne attacks. 
In October. Baharan was told to undergo scuba training in southwestern Palawan · province. the report said. lie periodically received cell phone messages from Janjalani and Sulaiman "ask­ing him how many fathoms he would be able to dive," the report said. 
!lis training was in prepara­tion for a Jemaah lslamiyah bombing plot on unspecifind targets outside the Philippines that would require "underwa­tPr operation," the report quoted him as saying. 

Thursay, March 17, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 'J 

House blocks Schiavo ruling 
Florida case of brain-damaged woman will move to federal courts 
A,.,ociatcd Press 
W/\S!IINC;TON -Tlw llousn passed legislation latn Wndrwsday inl!~ndmJ to delay thP rnrnoval of the feeding tulw k1~nping alive a brain­damaged woman whosn hus­band has IHH~n given permis­sion by a statn court to allow lwr to din. 
Earlin in th1• day. a Florida apfwals court rnl'usPCI to block tlw n~moval of TPrTi Schiavo's fPPding tub<~. 1:or ynars hnr lwsband has battled lwr par­~~nts over his dforts to allow hnr to din. which he contends slw would prefer rather than live in a vegetative state. 
The !louse bill. passed on a voice vow. would move such a case to federal court. Federal judges have twice turned down efTorts by the parents, Bob and Mary Schindler. to move the case out of !:lorida courts, cit­ing a lack ofjurisdiction. 
Senate Bepublicans are introducing a separate bill to give Schiavo and her family standing in federal court. and they hope it can be debated on Thursday, a GOP aide said. 
Under the !louse legislation, a federal judge would decide whether withholding or with­drawing food, fluids or medical trmttrnent from an incapacitat­ed pnrson violates the Constitution or U.S. law. It would apply only to incapaci­tated pnoplt· who had not left dire-ctives dealing with being kept alive artificially and for whom a state judge had authorized the withholding of food or medical treatment. 
Schiavo. 41, suffered severe brain damage in 1990 when hor heart stopped temporarily, and court-appointed doctors say she is in a persistent vege­tative state. ller husband, Michael Schiavo. says she told him she would not want to be kept alive artificially. ller par­ents disagree that was her wish and say she could improve with proper treat­ment. 
Florida Circuit Judge George Greer has granted Michael Schiavo permission to remove the feeding tube, a ruling a state appellate court upheld Wednesday. Without the feed­ing tube, which the state court allowed to be removed as early as Friday, Terri Schiavo would likely die in one to two weeks. 
"What's going on in Florida regarding Terri Schiavo is nothing short of inhumane," said !louse Judiciary Chairman James Sensenbrenner, R-Wis., who introduced the bill with Rep. Dave Weldon, R-Fla. 
Some House members criti­cized the bill, which Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., called "a dangerously reckless way to deal with some serious issues." 
"It does not deal just with feeding tubes. It would allow intervention in any decision 
affecting any kind or medical care. Head the bill," Nadler said. 
The Florida appeals court said in Wednesday's ruling that the issues the Schindlers' raised were not new ones and had been dealt with previously by numerous courts. 
"Not only has Mrs. Schiavo's case been given due process. but few. if any similar cases have ever been afforded this heightened level of process," Chid Judge Chris /\ltenbernd wrote. 
The court also rejected the Department of Children & Families' request for a 60-day stay while that agency investi­gates allegations that Terri Schiavo has been abused. 
The Schindler's planned to ask the Supreme Court to con­sider whether their daughter's religious freedom and due process rights have been vio­lated. Federal courts have declined to become involved the case. 
In Tallahassee, the House and Senate were considering competing proposals to pre­vent the removal of Terri Schiavo's feeding tube. 
The bills would block the removal of feeding tubes from patients in a persistent vegeta­tive state who didn't leave spe­cific verbal or written instruc­tions otherwise. But the Senate plan would only affect cases where families disagreed. 

Report predicts U.S. girth to drop life span 
Associated Press 

CIIICAGO U.S. life expectancy will fall dramatical­ly in coming years because of obesity, a startling shift in a long-running trend toward longer lives. researchers con­tend in a report published Thursday. 
By their calculations -dis­puted by skeptics as shaky and overly dire -within 50 years obesity likely will shorten the average life span of 77.6 years by at least two to five years. That's more than the impact of cancer or heart disease, said lead author S. Jay Olshansky. a longevity researcher at the University of Illinois at Chicago. 
This would reverse the most­ly steady increase in American life expectancy that has occurred in the past two cen­turies and would have tremen­dous social and economic con­sequences that could even inadvertently help "save" Social Security, Olshansky and colleagues contend. 
"We think today's younger generation will have shorter and less healthy lives than their parents for the first time in modern history unless we intervene," Olshansky said. 
Already, the alarming rise in childhood obesity is fueling a new trend that has shaved four to nine months oll the average 
U.S. life span, the researchers say. 
With ob1~sity affecting at h~ast 15 percent of U.S. school-age chi Idn~n, "it's not pin in tlw sky," Olshansky said. "Tlw chil­dren who an~ <~xtnmwly obnse are already here." 
The report appears in tlw Nnw England Journal of Medicine. In an accompanying editorial. University of I'<~ n nsy Ivan ia d n Ill ograp hy expert Sarmwl II. Pn~ston calls the projections "excossiv1dy gloomy." 
Opposing forecasts. proj<~ct­ing a continued increase in U.S. longevity, assume that obnsity will continue to worsen. but also account for medical advances, Preston said. 
Still. failure to curb obesity "could impede the improve­ments in longevity that are oth­erwise in store." he said. Americans' current life expectancy already trails more than 20 other developed coun­tries. 
Dr. David Ludwig of Children's Hospital Boston, a study co-author, cited sobering obesity statistics: 
+Two-thirds of U.S. adults are overweight or obese; one­third of adults qualify as obese. 
+Up to 30 percent of U.S. children are overweight, and childhood obesity has more than doubled in the past 25 years. 
+Childhood diabetes has increased I 0-fold in the past 20 years. 

PATRICK NoBLE AND JuAN PABLO GARCIA IRICH Fox AND BAND l T~i '~ DANCE CLue. ITHE GAELIC SocETY BAND


---------------------fL.!·"' 
··-~.~::..,__,

ST. PATRICK'S DAY 

Thursday, March 17, 2005

page 10 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Pope makes surprise appearance 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY -Pope John Paul II made a surprise appearance Wednesday at an open window of his apartment overlooking St. Peter's Square, his first pub­lic appearance since being released from the hospital after throat surgery to ease a breathing crisis. 
The 84-year-old pontiff appeared briel1y to pilgrims who had gathered on the square on a day when the pope typically greets the faithful in a weekly public audience. He made the sign of the cross and waved to several thousand pilgrims on the square on a mild March day. 
The Vatican had said Tuesday that John Paul would skip the audience and had no plans to appear. He lingered no longer than a minute at the window. 
The pope was released from Rome's Gemelli Polyclinic hospital on Sunday after a 2 1/2 week stay following surgery on Feb. 24 to insert a breathing tube in his windpipe. Vatican officials have said it will be up to John Paul's 
doctors to decide whether and when to remove the tube. 
John Paul, who also has Parkinson's disease and crippling hip and knee ail­ments, is being closely mon­itored by his physicians, who are advising him on how much he can exert him­self. 
The Vatican has given no indication of the pope's schedule for the coming days except to confirm he will give his traditional blessing on Easter Sunday, March 27. Holy Week cele­brations begin this weekend with Palm Sunday. 
Officials said the acute phase of the breathing crisis that sent the pope to the hospital for the second time in a month was over, but he would continue his recovery at the Vatican. A medical bulletin initially planned for Monday was canceled after his discharge from the hos­pital. 
The Italian news agency Apcom reported this week that the pope's apartment overlooking St. Peter's Square has been sterilized to reduce the risk of infec­tion. 
Throat specialists who haven't treated the pope have said breathing tubes usually are either taken out within a few days or left in indefinitely. 
Leaving the tube in place allows health personnel to quickly deal with emergen­cies like the breathing crises. But having a hole for an extended time makes patients more vulnerable to infections. 
In announcing his release from Gemelli on Sunday, the Vatican made clear that the pope was not cured -mere­ly well enough to continue his convalescence back at his apartment "in agreement with the attending physi­cians." 
His latest health crisis has raised new questions about his ability to continue lead­ing the Roman Catholic Church. 
John Paul heartened many followers Sunday when he uttered his first words in public since having the Feb. 24 tracheotomy surgery. A breathing crisis had first sent him to Gemelli for 10 days in early February. Ilis latest hospitalization lasted 17 days. 


What's your scholarship? 


Find your scholarship opportunities at our re-launched Scholarship Channel. 


"---------------~------------------------­


Defendants cleared in Air India bombings 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia -After a two-year trial, a Canadian judge on Wednesday acquitted two Indian-born Sikhs of murder and other charges in the deaths of 331 people killed when bombs exploded aboard an Air India plane over the Atlantic and at a Tokyo airport 20 years ago. 
British Columbia Supreme Court .Justice Ian .Josephson said the prosecution's key witnesses were not credible. The bombings were the deadliest terrorist strike before the Sept. 11 attacks and were Canada's worst case of mass murder. 
Spectators in the courtroom, including dozens of victims' rela­tives, gasped when the verdicts were read. Some started wailing. 
"Why did they even have this trial?" said Rattan Singh Kalsi, 75, of London, Ontario, whose daughter was aboard the Air India plane. "We were suffering anyway. Now we will suffer more." 
The defendants -Bipudaman Singh Malik, 58, and Ajaib Singh Bagri, 55-were immediately removed from the courtroom. Malik sat impassiv(Jly while the verdict was read, wiping his beard with a scar!". Supportors slapped his son on the back. 
Air India Flight 1i\2 from Montreal to London, originating in Vancouver, exploded and crashml on· Ireland on .June 23, 1lJH5. All 329 people on board. mostly Canadians, were killed. 
An hour earlier, a bomb in bag­gage intended for another Air India flight exploded in the Narita airport, killing two baggage han­dlers. 
Prosecutor Hobert Wright main­tained that the bombing was revenge by Sikh separatists for a deadly 1984 raid by Indian forces on the Golden Temple at An1ritsar. the holiest site in their religion. 

Thursday, March 17, 2005 
The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Russian plane crashes near Arctic oil port 
Associa1e<l Press 
MOSCOW -A 1970s-era Hussian turboprop airliner carry­ing oil workers slammed into tlw ground and caught fire WPcllu~sday whiiP trying to land 1war an oil port along the Arctic coast. At least 29 people worn killml in the crash. which o!licials said came after the plaiw's tail hPgan to fall apart. 
Some of the 24 survivors, shiv­ering in tmnperatures of minus­11 Fahrenheit. used a satellite phone to call authorities from the wrnckage near Varandei in the NeneLo.; autonomous region, about 
I. I I 0 miles northeast of Moscow. Hesruers quickly reached the site, authorities said. 
Enwrgency workers bundled in heavy coats loaded stretchers with the injured into ambulances, as clouds of exhaust from the vehicles billowed into the frigid air, according to footage shown on state-run Hossiya tehwision. 
Tlw passengPrs were employ­ees and contract workers for affiliates of Hussia 's largest oil company. l.ukoil, who were on tlwir way to bPgin work stints, eompany spokesman Mikhail Mikhailov told The Associated l'n~ss. lie had no immediate information about their nationali­ties. 
Thoro were 46 passengers and seven crew members aboard the Hegional Airlines An-2;4 plane. Hegional is a ,;mall private carri­er. 
'1\venty-nine people were killed in the afternoon crash, the Enwrgency Situations Ministry said. or the 24 survivors, 10 wore in grave condition. The 19 most seriously hurt were cwacuated by hdicopter to the regional capital. Naryan-Mar, while tho live others wem taken to Varandei. 
Emergency and transport olli­cials would not discuss what might have caused the crash. The lnterfax news agency reported that authorities were considering three possible causes: a technical problem, wind, and what the report said may have been the crew's lack of familiarity with the location. 
The plane was approaching the airport when it suddenly banked and slammed into the ground ncar Varandei. 
The pilot "reported that he saw the runway" shortly before the crash, Deputy Emergency Situations Minister Gennady Korotkin said on Hossiya. Citing eyewitnesses, he said the plano was heading for a forced landing after the tail section began to fall apart. 
"Then (the plane) fell on its left side, there was a fire -and that's it," Korotkin said. 
The plane had departed from the city of Ufa in the southern Ural Mountains region and made stopovers in the cities of Perm and Usinsk before continuing on to Varandei. 


Jericho handed over to Palestine 
Associated Press 

JEHUSALEM -Israeli troops took down their Star of David nag, removed a roadblock and handed the town of Jericho to Palestinian control Wednesday, boosting Mideast peace efforts and sending a message t.o Palnstinians that ending tlw vio­l!~nt uprising is starting to pay oil'. 
llowcver, a last-minute argu­ment over formal handover doc­ument'> reflected the distrust that has built up during four years of conllict. 
Symbolic steps turned practi­cal as Israel removed one of' three roadblocks around the iso­lated desert oasis, allowing free travel to the rest of the West Bank. Israeli soldiers stopped checking cars entering Jericho -a boost for the town's econo­my and for Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas, who needs to show he can get results as he seeks to renew the peace process with Israel. 
Violence has dropped since Abbas and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon declared a cease­lire at a Feb. 8 summit in Egypt. Abbas was in Cairo on Wednesday ·trying to persuade militants from Islamic Jihad and llamas to formally join the truce. 
News and pictures from Jericho, where residents wel­comed Palestinian police in clean. dark green uniforms and red berets after Israeli soldiers packed away their flags and weapons, could only strengthen Abbas' argument that violent resistance has played itself out, and agreements achieve more. 
Meanwhile, Hamas swept to victory in elections for the llebron University student coun­cil, a sign of' the hold the Islamic group has ahead of parliamen­tary elections in July. 
Also in Hebron, Jewish s1~ttlers clashed with Israeli police as they smashed a contested build­ing in the volatile town. underlin­ing that Israel will have dillicul­ties controlling its own extrem­ists during its planned evacua­tion of the Gaza Strip and part of the West Bank this summer. 
But in Jericho. the atmosphere was optimistic. 
"This is excellent, very encour­aging," said Jack llattar, 30, who owns a general store in the town. "Jericho has always lived ofl' out­siders, and now they'll start com­ing back more regularly, and when they do, business and life will improve for everyone." 
While removing its roadblock on the road to Ramallah north­west of Jericho, Israel main­tained a presence at the north­ern and southern ends of the town, checking some cars and people leaving Jericho for any sign of militants. 
Jericho will remain oll'-limil'i to Israelis for the time being, Israeli commanders said. Before the outbreak of lighting, thousands of Israelis would visit the town on weekends, many drawn by a luxury hotel and casino. 
Palestinian police set up their own checkpoint near the casino Wednesday to turn away Israelis. The casino was closed shortly alter the outbreak of lighting. 

Israel also kept control of' a main highway running through AI Awja, a village north of Jericho, while ending the village il'ielf' to the Palnstinians. 
l'alnstinian police promisPd to confiscate illegal weapons and hand back stolen Israeli cars. according to the handover agreement. Isnwl pledged to consider removing the remaining two roadblocks in a month if' the Palestinians fulfill their s1~curity obligations. 
In a statement announcing the handovor. the Israeli military warned that continuing tlw process depended on "commit­ment of the Palestinian security forces to a joint fight against ter­rorist activity." 
Jericho has been the starting point for peace processes and confidence-building measures in the past, dating back to 19CJ4, when Vasser Arafat arrived to establish the Palestinian Authority under terms of an interim peace accord. 
The town is ideally suited for such steps -a quiet oasis in the barren Jordan Hiver valley, far from Israeli population centers and relatively free from militants and vioh~nce. But even negotia­tions over Jericho were long, tense and acrimonious, boding poorly for transfer or the other four towns agn~ed to ·at the Feb. 8 summit -Bethlehem, Qalqiliya, Tulkarem and Hamallah, seat of the Palestinian government. Israel is supposed to hand Tulkarem over next week. 
Go to Saint Mary's? Want to work for 

THE 








BSERVER 
Then come check out our brand-new office in the basement of !he brand-new SMC Student Center! 
Who: writers, photographers, designers, copy ed·itors anyone is welcome to talk with editors What: Observer open house When: Monday at 4 p.m. 
Questions? Contact Megan O'Neil at 284-4403 


page 12 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, March 17, 2005 
Man loses custody of goats 
Animal cruelty case raised against friar 
Associated Press 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. -A man who allegedly left a trail of dead goats through several states has lost custody of his 200-plus remaining animals pending the outcome of animal cruelty cases in Ohio and West Virginia. 
Christopher Weathersbee. 64. fled to West Virginia with 16 of his goats, including a dead one he'd been storing in a freezer, in late February amid an impound­ment and seizure by agents in Scioto County. Ohio. 
Ohio agents found an estimat­ed 80 goat carcasses on his rent­ed property -including one in the house and another nine in a freezer. according to Teresa Landon. director of the Ohio Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. They also seized about 220 live goats from the property. 
In West Virginia, shelter offi­cials found another goat dead after a passer-by notified offi­cials that the goats appeared thin and weak. Officials seized 
the  14  living  animals  - a  
seizure  that  was  upheld  
Tuesday.  

Weathersbee said Wednesday that he was obligated to care for the goats as a Third Order Franciscan. When they died, he said he didn't have the strength to bury them. considering the fact the ground was frozen. 
''I'm one old man trying to fight city hall in three states," he said, adding that he is also seek­ing to overturn a 2004 animal cruelty conviction in Vermont. 
It was not immediately known whether Weathersbee had retained a lawyer. 
Weathersbee first came to the attention of officials in 2001 when he started seeking assis­tance in caring for his more than 300 goats while living in Corinth, Vt. 
He wanted to start a no-kill goat shelter where he could pro­duce cheese and wool, said Dana Starr with the Central Vermont Humane Society. He applied for loans, grants and even peti­tioned the governor for help. 
"He couldn't afford to feed them and couldn't understand why others didn't aid him," Starr said on Tuesday. 
At one time Weathersbee had some of the animals living in his house with him. The animals were .allowed to breed and mul­tiply and started starving, Starr said. 
The Vermont humane society seized 44 goats in February 2004, she said, and Weathersbee was later charged with multiple counts of animal cruelty. He entered into a plea agreement under which he agreed to take his goats, including those that were seized, and leave the state, Starr said. 
Weathersbee went to eastern Kentucky, telling Vermont humane officials his animals would be cared for as part of a ' Jgetation-management project, Starr said. 
He was in Kentucky only a couple of weeks, and it was unclear how many of his ani­mals died by the time he arrived in Franklin Furnace. Ohio, on Dec. 28, Landon said. 
Weathersbee is scheduled to have a pretrial hearing in Ohio next month on 15 misdemeanor counts of animal cruelty. If con­victed. he could be sentenced to up to 90 days in jail and fined up to $740 on each count. He also faces 16 counts of animal cruelty in West Virginia. 
He has previously acknowl­edged that he could not afford to give the herd sufficient care, but he refused to get rid of the ani­mals because .he said his reli­gious views prohibited him from slaughtering any of the goats. 

Nuclear -waste papers questioned 
Yucca Mountain project documents spur speculation 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Government employees may have falsified documents related to the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste project in Nevada, the Energy Department said Wednesday. The disclosure could jeopardize the project's ability to get a feder­al permit to operate the dump. 
During preparation for a license application to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, the department said it found a num­ber of e-mails from 1998 through 2000 in which an employee of the U.S. Geological Survey "indi­cated that he had fabricated doc­umentation of his work." 
Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman said the department is investigating what kind of infor­mation was falsified and whether it would affect the scientific underpinnings of the project. 
"If in the course of that review any work is found to be deficient, it will be replaced or supple­mented with analysis and docu­ments that meet appropriate quality assurance standards." said Bodman. He said he was "greatly disturbed" by the devel­opment. 
The department said the ques­tionable data involved computer modeling for water infiltration and climate at the Yucca site, which is 90 miles northwest of Las Vegas. 
At a House hearing Wednesday, the official who recently took over the Yucca pro­gram in the Energy Department indicated that the revelations could further delay the project. 
"I assure you we will not pro­ceed until we have rectified these problems," Theodore Garrish told Rep. David Hobson, R-Ohio, chairman of the House Appropriations subcommittee that controls the dollars for Yucca Mountain. 
Garrish was not asked to elab­orate. After the hearing, he declined to answer reporters' questions. 
Hobson said the problem did not appear too serious and that he did not think it would throw Yucca Mountain off track. 
"As I understand it this is not a major impediment and can be corrected very easily," Hobson told reporters. "Some people just don't want to do their job right, so they'll slip it through rather than doing their job. We don't have any evidence that some­body directed anybody to do this." 

Chip Groat, director of the. Geological Survey, said the e­mails "have raised serious ques­tions about the review process of scientific studies done six years ago." 
The disclosure follows other setbacks for the proposed waste dump. The department has delayed filing its license applica­tion to nuclear regulators and now acknowledges that the planned completion of the facility by 2010 no longer is possible. Garrish told the committee Wednesday that he couldn't pro­vide a new completion date. 
Congress last year refused to provide all the money sought by the Bush administration for the project. A federal appeals court rejected the radiation protection standards established by the Environmental Protection Agency; the agency is developing new standards. 
Last month, the official in charge of the Yucca project resigned, citing personal reasons. 

Truck driver accused in immigrant deaths 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON -A truck driver accused in the deaths of 19 illegal immigrants crammed into his sweltering tractor­trailer could hear the smug­gled passengers hitting the vehicle's walls but refused to help them, a woman who accompanied the defendant testified Wednesday. 
Fatima Holloway, 30, said as she and Tyrone Williams. 34, drove from Harlingen to Houston in May 2003, she could hear noises coming from the back of the trailer. 
"I said, 'Did you hear that?' He said no," Holloway testi­fied. "I didn't believe him because I could hear it." She said after more noises, he admitted hearing them as well, she said. 
Williams' attorneys say he is guilty of transporting the immigrants but is not respon­sible for their deaths because he didn't know they were dying. Prosecutors contend Williams ignored the immi­grants' screams for help. 
Williams·_ charged with 58 counts of harboring and transporting illegal immi­grants -is accused of driving. and abandoning the rig at a truck stop near Victoria, about 100 miles southwest of Houston. Nineteen of the more than 70 illegal immi-
Gala 2005 
grants crammed inside died. He could face the death penalty if convicted. 
Holloway, who has pleaded guilty in the case, said she originally traveled ·from Cleveland to Houston with Williams in his tractor-trailer to watch him deliver $15,000 in drug money. A former boyfriend who was working with Williams paid her $1,000 to make the trip. 
When the drug deal was delayed, Holloway testified she accompanied Williams to Harlingen, where they met with several membnrs of the smuggling ring he worked for. Later, Holloway said Williams drove his tractor-trailer to a secluded field. 
"The next thing I know I feel people getting on the truck," Holloway said. "It felt likP a lot of people. I told him I didn't appreciate getting caught up in this. lie said. 'Just relax. I've done this before."' 
After passing through a Border Patrol checkpoint, Holloway said Williams stopped his truck twice but didn't let the immigrants out. even after they started yelling about "el nino" -the boy ­and sticking their hands out or holes they had punched through in the back. One of the victims was a 5-year-old boy. 

Greencroft Senior Center Benefit Featuring comedian Mark Russell 

Sat., March 19, 2005 
8:00 p~m. 
Goshen College Music Center Tickets are $35. On sale at Goshen College Welcome Center, 1700 S. Main, Goshen, (574) 535~7566. 
A GR..EENCR..OFT. 
• www.greencroft.org 
Major sponsors: Bank One, Elkhart General Hospital, First State Bank, 

Goshen Health System, Media sponsors: 
jayco, Liberty Homes, MFB Financial, Nappanee
'Qlbr &;osh~n Nrws 
Window, Sam's Club, Schrock Homes, and HomeCrest Cabinetry

~ ::~~-~~b 

Notre Dame Students..want To Win 2Round Trip Airline Ticketsil 
IT'S EASY ... ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS ATTEND 3 NOTRE DAME MEN'S LACROSSE HOME GAMES TO ENTER TO WIN! 
. . 

ADMISSION IS FREE••• 
• 

*Saturday, 1vlarch 19th vs. Butler at I pm *Thursday, April ith vs. Denver at 4 pm *Sunday, April Ioth vs. Air Force at Noon 
Allgames will be held at .Moose Krause Stadium (Due to inclement weather games will be moved to Loftus Sports Cmter) 
• Visit www.notredamepromotions.com for all the latest promotional information 
• Pair of round trip airline tickets is good only in the Continental United States certain restrictions will apply 

Thursday, March 17, 2005 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 1.3 



Blake acquitted of murder 
side the actor's favorite Italian

Actor was accused 
restaurant on May 4. 2001, less four years ago of than six months after their mar­riage.shooting his wife 'The defense called it a weak case built largely on the testimo­
Associate<! Press 
ny of the two stuntmen _ both of 

LOS ANGELES -A jury whom were once heavy drug acquitted tough-guy actor users. Hobert Blake of murder No eyewitnesses, blood or Wmlnesday in the shooting death DNA evidence linked Blake to of his wife four years ago, bring­the crime. The murder weapon, ing a stunning end to a case that found in a trash bin, could not played out like pulp fiction. be traced to Blake, and witness­
The jury also acquittnd Blake es said the minuscule amounts of one charge of trying to get of gunshot residue found on sonwone to kill Bonny Len Blake's hands could have come Bakley. but ch~adlocked on a sec­from a difl'erent gun he said he 
ond  solicitation  carried for pro­ 
charge. Tlw jury  tection.  
votnd 11-1 in favor  "They couldn't  
of acquittal and the judge dis­missed the count. The 71-year-old  "He was tricked by Bonny Lee and he hated her for it. "  put the gun in his hand," jury fore­man Thomas Nicholson told  
star of the 1970s  reporters outside  
detective drama  Shellle Samuels  court. adding that  
"Barctta" dropped  prosecutor  the  evidence  

his head. trembled with emotion and sobbed heavily as the verdict was read. lie hugged his lawyer and later almost fell while reaching for a water bot­tle. 
Bakley's adult daughter sobbed quietly in the back of the courtroom. 
OuL<>ide the courthouse, Blake thanked his lawyers and private investigators. saying "this small band of dedicated warriors saved my life." lie also described tlw financial toll the case had taken on him. 
"If you want to know how to go through $10 million in five years, ask me," he said. ''I'm broke. I need a job." 
At one point. Blake asked someone in the crowd for some­thing to remove his electronic monitoring bracelet. lie then bent down and cut off the device. 
The jury of seven men and five wonwn deliven~d the verdicts on iL'i ninth day of deliberations. fol­lowing a trial with a cast a char­acters that included two llollywood stuntmen who said Blake tried to get them to bump ofl' his wife. 
Blake had faced life in prL<>on; prosecutors did not seek the death pn111tlty. 
Blakn WIL'i charged with shoot­ing Bakley, 44, in their car out-could "never con­
nect all the links 
in the chain." 
Prosecutors said Blake believed his wife trapped him into a loveless marriage by get­ting pregnant. They said Blake soon became smitten with the baby, Rosie, and desperately wanted to keep the child away from Bakley, whom he consid­ered an unfit mother. 
Bakley had been married sev­eral times. had a record for mail fraud and made a living scam­ming men out of money with nude pictures of herself and promises of sex. 
"He was tricked by Bonny Lee and he hated her for it," prose­cutor Shellie Samuels said in closing arguments. "He got taken by a small-time grifter." 
The four-month trial was part of a wave of celebrity court cases in California that have provided endless fodder for the tabloids and cable networks. The Michael Jackson child molesta­tion trial was starting just as the Blake case was wrapping up, and rock 'n' roll producer Phil Spector will stand trial later this year in Los Angeles for allegedly murdering a B-movie actress. 
In another murder case that was seemingly made for the tabloids, Scott Peterson was sent to death row just a few hours before the Blake verdict for 


(Q~(~ HARlltWt ~ 
killing his pregnant wife and her unborn fetus. 
Blake ha'> been in front of the camera from childhood. back when he was sad-eyed little Mickey in the "Our Gang" movie shorts, and was nominated for an Oscar for the 1967 movie "In Cold Blood," in which he por­trayed a killer who dies on the gallows. 
In "Baretta," Blake played a tough-talking, street-smart detective whose catchphrase was "Don't do the crime if you can't do the time." 
Those acting successes seemed well in the past by the time a divorced and lonely Blake met J3akley at a jazz club live years ago. They had sex in his truck that night, and she was soon carrying Blake's child. They were wed in 2000 in a no-frills ceremony at which the bride wore an electronic monitoring bracelet because she was still on probation for fraud. 
Prosecutors said Blake killed his wife after failing to persuade a street thug-turned-minister and two stuntmen from his "Baretta" days to do the job. One of the stuntmen said Blake talked about having Bakley "snuffed" and mentioned loca­tions for the killing, including the Grand Canyon. 
Also. a former detective who worked for Blake as a private investigator testified that the actor proposed to kidnap Bakley, force her to have an abortion and. if that did not work, "whack her." 
The defense portrayed the stuntmen as drug users prone to hallucinations and delusions. 
The police "convicted Mr. Blake on the night of the mur­der, and then they conducted an incompetent investigation," defense attorney M. Gerald Schwartzbach said. 
Blake told authorities that he walked his wife to the car after dinner, then discovered he had left his gun back in the booth at Vitello's Restaurant. He went back to get it, then returned to the car and found his wife shot. he said. 
But some witnesses testified that Blake did not appear to be sincere as he wept and moaned over the slaying that night. One witness said the actor appeared to be "turning it on and off." 
COME HEAR COACH WEIS SPEAK ABOUT THE VALUE OF PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES AND HIS WIFE'S FOUNDATION. 
HANNAH AND FRIENDS. 


Bush denies trouble vvithin Iraq coalition 
President calls for patience after Italian pullout 
Associated Press peo pIe" in d e fy i n g d eat h 
threats to vote. 
WASHINGTON -President On neighboring Iran. Bush 
Bush acknowledged Wednes­refused to set a deadline for 
day that U.S. allies are anx­the Iranians to accept a d1~al 
ious to get out of Iraq but to halt their uranium enrich­
firmly denied the coalition ment program in return for 
was crumbling. He also said economic incentives. 
patience was needed to find a Believing that Iran is trying 
diplomatic solution to Iran's to build a nuclear weapon. 
nuclear program. Bush said the United States 
A day after Italy announced would ask the U.N. Security it would begin withdrawing Council to seek sanctions soldiers from Iraq by against Tehran if it rejected September, Bush refused to the offer, but he indicated discuss the timing of any U.S. that would not happen soon. pullout. "Our troops will "I mean. it takes awhile for come home when Iraq is things to happen in the capable of defending herself," world .... There's a certain he said. patience required in order to 
With little advance notice, achieve a diplomatic objec­Bush came to the White tive," the president said. House briefing room and held Bush opened the news con­a 48-minute news conference ference saying he was mak­in which he defended his ing progress on Social Social Security Security plan against although polls growing doubts, "Our troops will show growing expressed con­opposition to his
come home when 
cern over high idea to overhaul
Iraq is capable of
energy prices the system by and reasserted defending herself" allowing younger his support for workers to put the death penal­some ol' their
George Bush
ty and his oppo­payroll taxes into 
president
sition to gay private saving 
marriages. 
It was Bush's fifth news conference since his November re-election. White House advisers are try­ing to have him hold the ses­sions on a monthly basis, far more frequently than in his first term. 
The president used the occasion to confirm he intends to name Paul Wolfowitz, an architect of the Iraq invasion and a man known for his hawkish views on national security, to lead the World Bank. 
Two years after the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq, the coalition of countries that provided troops has fallen from 38 nations to 24, and the United States continues to shoulder the bulk of the outside responsibility and suffer most of the non-Iraqi casualties. Bush said allies want to get out as soon as Iraq can defend itself. 
"People want their troops home. But they don't want their troops home if it affects the mission," he said. although few countries have hedged their withdrawals. Asked if the coalition was crumbling, Bush said. "No. quite to the contrary. I think the coalition has been buoyed by the courage of the Iraqi 
accounts. llis 

formula would result in a reduction in guar­anteed Social Security bene­fits. 
Bush acknowledged that the private accounts would not solve Social Security's insol­vency problem. and he refused anew to reveal how he would like to fix the sys­tem. Told that Democrats want him to spell out his pro­posal, Bush said. ''I'm sure they do. The first bill on the Hill always is dead on arrival. I'm interested in coming up with a permanent solution. I'm not interested in playing political games." 
Soliciting proposals from members of Congress. Bush pledged that "I will not take somebody's idea and usr. it as a political weapon against them." 
On other points at the news conference. Bush: 
-Expressed conf'idence in llouse Majority Leader Tom DeLay. H-Texas. who fares ethical questions about his fund raising and about over­seas travel paid for by special interests. 
-Hefused to say whl'ther Congress should subpoPna Major League Baseball play­ers to testify during spring training about steroid use. 


s!9t. 
ula 
h ha fmnil:-. J"riL·mh 
and rhe ~.\utrc Llamr (\nmmlHi~,. 


THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 14 Thursday, March 17, 2005 
THE OBSERvER 

Shades of the prison house 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Par Leonard Mike Flanagan 
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gorrumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CONTROlLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint. l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
ScENE DEsK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and musr include contact information. 
O!<estions "garding Observerpolicies shotdd be directed to Editor in ChiefClairt! Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th~ Oh,~rver (USPS i9'J 2-•ood) is publi~had Monday through l:tiday cx.:cpt during exam and vacacitm pcriodi. A ~uN~ripdon to ThcOI»ervcr i~ S!OU fur on~: o~c01demk }"C.I.f: S55 foron".cnu."'ita. 
The Ob>dvt-r U publilhcJ. n: POSTMASTER U24 !x.!uth Dining H.ll Send 1ddm.s corm:tiom ro: Now [}.um:, IN 46~%-0n9 The Ob~oe:"rVt".r PaiodKal pau~c po1.id at Norrt: D.une P.O. Box 719 and addirion.U mailillll, offiu:~. 024. South Oininr, Hall 
None Dame, IN 46556..0779 
The O~t1Yer •*' llllll.'mhcr of d1~· Abt~l.&teJ 11rtU. All reprot.lw.tiun uglm ;~n: 
rt'lot'I"Vt'd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
The end has, as I've been expecting, arrived on schedule. Spring break has come and passed. Like the sun-tans many of us have returned with, the fresh memories of this year's version of that annual college bacchanal will fade Bob Masters away, taking their place among the ghosts of spring I Fall on the breaks past. Only ill­Floor and I advised tattoos and Laughing cameo appearances on "Girls Gone Wild" will remain. Indeed, Easter, the final respite from class work and last bastion of days off, waits merely a week away. Blame an early start to Lent, but it seems as if the calendar is running on high octane this year. Just past both of these milestones looms graduation-an idea most sen­iors have been gleefully ignoring, pre­ferring instead to bathe in the forgetting waters of the modern Lethe that is the Linebacker. 
I myself find the conclusion to my Notre Dame days suddenly staring starkly at me from its now ever-so-near­by perch at the end of the road I set out upon four years ago. Did I spend my time here appropriately? Did I truly appreciate what for me, like many oth­ers, was the fulfillment of a life-long dream? Do I have any Flex Points left? 
While so many of us ponder these ulti­mate questions and more. perhaps more importantly we should ask our­selves if we're really ready to enter a world where no one's ever heard of the phrase "student charge, please." Yes, the last quarter of this year should be a time for examining our core consisten­cies. Let us ask ourselves what's truly important, what do we fundamentally value, and will these basic personal building blocks be enough to guide us beyond the borders of Notre Dame Avenue and Angela Boulevard. If we can keep the Dome in our hearts and a smile on our face, I have a feeling we'll 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

land on our feet. 
But beyond all of the usual anxieties of graduation, I find myself in a most precarious position. For some time now I've been in a rather serious relation­ship. As my departure from school looms, I cannot say for certain what 
will happen to us, my partner out are the days when I could sit and L I'm growing-we're on the sun-soaked quad with growing-and, so it seems, a well-worn anthology of we're growing apart. At English poetry -coming first the changes were on strong are the days of graduaL Our meetings case law and contracts, grew shorter and less of moot courts and frequent. We'd ignore internships. each other for extended But I lind I'm not stretches, neither mak­alone. For those of' us ing an effort to reach graduating with Arts out to the other. It was­and Letters diplomas. n't a conscious thing. It the dash of aesthetic just seemed like there versus pragmatic is all was never enough time. too real. We would have 
Now when we do meet, been in accountancy if it feels as if it's by cus­we just wanted a job tom, not by choice. I can after graduation. No, we remember a time when we wanted something more first met at Saint Mary's -to communicate with the when our relationship was as great minds and works that fresh as a fabric softener scent, 
when we'd sneak off to be together 
like two 'young, infatuated lovers. But 
those days are gone. Now we meet as if 
we're romantic historians, paying hom­
age to what once was a mighty match 
that has since been snuffed out like a 
candle on Good Friday. 
Ah, William Wordsworth, what's come 
between us? 
I should explain. I'm an English 
major, a fact that I normally.stated with 
the natural addendum" ... but I'm plan­
ning on going to law school." At some 
point in the major, I became enamored 
with Wordsworth, the great Romantic 
British poet with whom I've become 
closely coupled. I've read him, written · on him, and drawn-up plans for imagi­
nary pilgrimages to his English Lake 
District home. 
This year, however, push came to 
shove. I am going to law school next year. And that means William Wordsworth and I (who I did indeed meet at Saint Mary's in a course on British Romanticism) must break up so that I might instead concentrate on tort 
laws and civil procedures. Fading 
means to be a thinking person. But, so it seems, money talks and blank verse walks. It's time to turn in those anthologies for Wall Street Journals, those paperbacks for legal pads. 
In the end, I take comfort in the idea that Wordsworth knew what we're about to go through. "Shades of the prison-house begin to close/ Upon the growing Boy," Wordsworth wrote. lie was talking about the impact of world­weariness on man's nature. He might as easily have meant trading O'Shag for Madison Avenue. 
Bob Masters is a senior English majm: lie can be contacted at amasters@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Sports Eileen Duffy Justin Schuver 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Kate Antonacci Bobby Griffin Karen Langley Mike Gilloon Jen Rawling Matt Warmington Do you already have an 

"Jfyou must play, decide upon three
Submit a 
things at the start: the rules of the
Viewpoint Scene 
internship for the swnmer? 

Letter to the Editor at 
game, the stakes and the quilling
Justin Spack Ram a 
lime."
Graphics Gottumukkala 

www. ndsmcobserver. com 
Vote by today at 5 p.m. at
Kelly MacDonald Illustrator Katie Knorr www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Chinese proverb 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, March 17, 2005 page IS 
Law and justice go hip-hop style 

Samuol Johnson, who was not rnticlmt in his opinions, once said that "the law is an ass." !lis observation sprang innvitably to mind this January wh(m, in llllP of tlw mon~ surreal moments ol' :\nwrican lngal history. 
Peter Wicks 

llw judgns of the 5th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appl~als found them­
Hnglishman

snlVl)S forced to rule on 
Abroad

tlw qtwstion of whetlwr 
tlw lyrics of .Juveniln's 
"Bark That Azz Up" infringed tlw copy­
right of IU. Jubilen's "Back That Ass 
Up". 
Tho judges eventually d1~cided that .Juvenile had not stolen .Jubilee's prop­nrty bncause the "hook" ol' his-admit­tedly homonymous-song was not its lyriral rdrain but llw sample of Thn .Jackson Fivp's "I Want You Back." In tlw through the looking glass world ol' intdlnctual property law it rnadn some sense, but the l'act rnmains that if they had put thn rou rtroom footage on C­SI'AN it would have made more entnrtaining viewing than anything MTV could oiTnr. 
Plato called songs "spnlls for souls" and llw inlluence of hip-hop has long been a source of concern amongst anxious parents and lexicographers. This suits the rappers just finn: musically hip hop has its denpest roots in soul and funk-along with Jamaican dub­but its taste l'or out­ragP is pun~ rock and roll. 
Plato was an old man when he warned of music's bnwitching pownr and tlwre are some who dismiss con­ennis about the influence of hip-hop as just the latest instance of the perennial concerns of the old about the rn usic of the young. Othnrs detnct a double standard in the way hip-hop performers are . viewed when compared to contem­porury rock musicians, few of whom, it must be said, are exemplary role mod­ds. 
While there is some truth in both of those replies, other defenders of hip hop overreach. Toni Morrison has argued that it is a sign of racial preju­dice that we take Shakespeare's vulgari­ties to be quaint and yet treat hip-hop lyrics as a cause for concern. But Shakespeare's double entendres arc not tho 1\lizabethan equivalent or 2 Live Crnw's "Me So llorny" and anyone who says otherwise has spnnt too much time surrounded by sycophants and lost all sonse of reality. 
The lyrics of much hip-hop music are pornographic in a straightforward and perfnctly literal sense. Male emcees frc­qUl~ntly boast of their sexual prowess and recount their conquests, real or imagirwd, in terms that would make Casanova blush. Female performers who are eager not to bn outdone typi­cally focus on their high sexual dnmands, making it clear how few men will measure up. In both cases they present themselves as paragons of unapologetic self-confidence, but it is hard not to notice the similarities with the image of the hypersexualized black that has long enjoyed prominence in the racist imagination. 
The upshot of all this is that if you lis­ten to Lil' Jon and Lil' Kim in quick sue-cession it's uncomfortably like over­hearing a couple on the phone. with a scratched copy ol' James Brown's "Funky Drummer" skipping in the back­ground. Edited for the radio, it's like lis­toning to a cardiograph singing to a beat it didn't writn. 
While humanities professors are not well known advocates for supply-side economics they are becoming increas­ingly savvy at producing work that suc­ceeds in the intellectual marketplace by flattering the pre-existing tastes of stu­dents. A prominent example took place in 2003, there was an academic confer­ence at llarvard devot11d to Tupac Shakur, sponsored in part by the W.E.B. Du Bois Institute for /\fro-American Hesearch. 
Mark Anthony Neal. an English pro­
fessor from the State University of 
New York. Albany. argued that 
Shakur is best understood as an 
example of the "organic intel­
lectual" who expresses the 
concerns of his group. a 
concept articulated by 
Antonio Gramsci, the Marxist political theorist. 
Participants at the con­
ference who shut their 
eyes and listened hard 
would have heard the 
sound of W.E.B. Dubios 
spinning in his grave 
at just over 33 revolu­
tions per minute. 
Of course, hip-hop 
music is much more 
diverse than the 
debates around it typi­
cally suggest, and 
there are a great many 
artists, like KHS-One, 
Mos Del', and Talib Kweli to name just a few. whose music does 
not rely on posturing 
and provocation. But in general the more outra­geous .the content the bet­
ter the albums sell and it is hopeless to criticize the artists for misogyny and homophobia when to a large extent they are deliberately setting out to outrage not as an 
expression of prejudice but as a declaration of independence, to prove that they won't let anyone else dictate what they can and cannot say, to show that they can get-away with it. 
People do not automatically imitate the values of the music they listen to, and to speak as if they do both insults them and absolves them. of responsibili­ty. llip-hop music often seems to express a worldview in which other people must always appear as either obstacles or means to one's own satis­faction, but this view is widespread in all genres of popular music, and con­temporary culture generally. No one who looks to any sort of contemporary music as a guide to life is likely to be well-served by it. Happers rarely make good role models, but the same is true of rock stars, and -rather than expressing outrage over particular songs that set new standards for vulgar­ity-we should be more concerned about the factors which make some peo­ple treat them that way. 
Songs may be spells for souls, but the magic is weak. It works only on those for whom songs are all they have. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in the Philosophy Department. 1/e can be contacted at pwicks@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

We are hu111an beings too 
"We are human beings too." Those words roll of the tongues of dill"erent groups of people enduring all levels of injustice around the entire world. llowevnr. when I hoard the words come from a young northern Ugandan boy during the documentary "The Invisible Childnm." the pl1m for justice dissipat1~d within the larger call for awareness. 
It seemed at the same time to be an assertion and yet still a question. It was as if he was saying, we live in this world with you. we have lives and families, and disproportionate loss and tragedy. But. how can this be if you refuse to see us? 
The shattered world of the children lleeing from the Lords Hesistance Army rebels and the fate of child soldiers began 17 years ago, yet rages on unchecked by international pressure. Heal, live human beings just like us, are watching their families die. they are starving and then training to b1~ killers tlmmselves. 
At the same time, in Sudan, the United Nations estimates that 180.000 people ·have died as the result ofgenocide. and gross human rights otlimses contimu~ despite growing media coverage in the West. And while the United Nations attempts to reach peace settlemenl'> with rebel groups in the lkmocratic Hepublic of the Congo, the scars of violence there an~ some of the most gnw­some in the regions bloody history. The statement. "we are human b1~ings too," is simple, but carries immense weight. 
Africa is a place too. The invisible childnm live on an invisibln contirwnt. and il'i time lor private citizens-if not the U.S. government-to take notice. 
Christina Hill 
sophomore 
Walsh Hall 
Mar. 15 



Halftime entertainn1ent defines season 
The few fans who did go to [Tuesday's National Invitation Tournament! men's basketball game agreed that instead of gnashing our te1~th and rending our garments about the recent series of losses, we should instead look back at the moments that made this season tolerable. Yes, Colin Falls' eight 3-pointers in the Pittsburgh game and the 21-point effort by Torin Francis against Hutgers were admirable efforts. Chris Thomas continued to make the impossible shots that made him famous. and Hick Cornett stepped up his play in the paint. llowever. the only part of the season that really paid adequate tribute to the 100 years of Notn~ Dame hoops was the half-time entertainment. 
The Centennial Celebration during thn last home game gath1~red the best players in school history under one roof (maybe coach Mike Brey should have snuck a few of them into that day's lineup). Ever popular among the students, the hamster ball races were often morn exciting than the actual games themselves. 
Jean's Golden Girls showed us that you don't have to be young to shake it like a Polaroid picture. The lligh Impact performers proved that span­dex and trampolines make for minutes of high-flying fun. Last, but cer­tainly not least, let us not forget the bowl lady. She amazed us all by !lip­ping three bowls onto her head, but after her amazing final pnrf'ormance, I think I speak for all of us present that she tmly deserved the standing ovation we gave her. 
Many thanks go out to the people that made these memories possible. But next year can you please bring back the flexible man that lits himself into a box? 
Sarah Wladecki sophomore Pasquerilla West Hall 
THE 0HSERVER 




CENE
page 16 
Thursday, March 17, 2005 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
50 Cent undeserving of fallle, fortune 
By KENYATTA STORIN Assistant Scene Editor 
50 Cent may have the image, the charis­ma. the beats and the marketing, but when it comes down to it, he does not have the one thing that truly counts-tal­ent. 
The former hustler, who is best known for surviving nine gunshot wounds in 2000, has quickly become one of the biggest names in rap after the success of his 2003 debut album, "Get Rich or Die Tryin'," led by hits such as "In Da Club," "21 Questions" and "Magic Stick." Along with the clout and star power of Eminem, Dr. Ore and G-Unit, 50 Cent's success has turned the Aftermath label jnto a rap jug­gernaut that does not look to be slowing down anytime soon. 50 Cent's sophomore album, "The Massacre," already sits atop the Billboard charts at No. 1, and the sin­gles "Candy Shop" and "Disco Inferno" are among the hottest in the nation. 
But these strong sales are mostly due to the catchiness of 50 Cent's choruses and beats, not his rapping. His rhymes are typically quite simple, often lacking in vocabulary, wit and emotion. Furthermore, in many cases he will rhyme with the same one-syllable sound over and over. sometimes even using the same word multiple times, like on "Gatman and Robbin," where he rhymes the word "it" six times in one verse. Even Vanilla Ice and MC Hammer could have done that. 
"The Massacre" is obviously not meant to be a particularly deep or provocative album, but even when that is taken into account there is still very little substance. 


Most of the songs fall under the usual gangsta rap cliches of hustling, sex and materialism without providing anything fresh or different to distinguish them. Although rappers like Snoop Dogg, Notorious B.I.G. and Tupac all rapped about these things. each had a distin­guished style. flavor and emotion to his music that distinguished them from one another and ultimately allowed them to all find a niche in hip-hop history. Furthermore, these rappers were avid storytellers, painting an image of their lives that listeners could grasp and empathize with, even if it may have been exaggerated or embellished at times. 
Unfortunately, 50 Cent provides none of this in his music. His songs are generally hollow and empty, leaving little to hold on to after the beats have lost their novelty and catchiness. Even the· club singles. "Candy Shop" and "Disco Inferno," are sub par, and might as well be called "Magic Stick II" and "In Da Club II." 
"A Baltimore Love Thing" is one of the only songs that strays from the norm, with 50 Cent taking on the perspective of hero­in and name-dropping famous artisl<> like Kurt Cobain and Ozzy Osbourne. 

One of the album's positives is its pro­duction, which is supplied by Eminem. Dr. Ore and Hi-Tek. along with relative unknowns like Needlz and C. Styles. Although none of the production is amaz­ing, as a whole it is generally rather catchy, allowing the album to serve as good background music in party situa­tions. 
"The Massacre" is ultimately a rather average album. Like a mediocre action film. it has its amusing moments. but in the end it has limited replay value. 50 Cflnt may be popular now, but if he does not improve his content and flow. he will see his popularity slowly fade away like other unremarkable pop rappers before him. 
Contact Kenyatta Storin at kstorin@nd.edu 
Johnson keeps playing the same good song 
By BECCA SAUNDERS Assistant Scene Editor 
Although the majority of "mainlan­ders" have not actually visited Hawaii, most people could describe Hawaii with­out great difficultly. Visions of leis, luaus and ocean sunsets come to mind for most, but the sounds of Hawaii may escape their grasp. There is a simple solution. however-buy a Jack Johnson album. 
A North Shore native from Oahu. Johnson brings Hawaii to the world through his strumming and gentle singing that plays as the perfect sound­track for watching a sunset while sitting on the edge of a beach. In his third stu­dio-released album, "In Between Dreams." Johnson does not change much in regards to his style of musk or lyrics. The album bounces from song to song with Johnson's soothing voice and folksy guitar playing transporting the listener to the warm beaches the songs seem to have been written for. 
"In Between Dreams" does not stand above Johnson's first two albums, pro­viding a solid dose of traditional Johnson without many surprises. The overall sound of the album hardly dif­fers from that of his first two albums, "Brushfire Fairytales" and "On and On." In fact, any one of the songs oii "In Between Dreams" could be added to either of the previous albums without disturbing the overall feeling of those albums. Many critics would view this as a weakness and perhaps as a musician it is a failing to be seemingly stuck in one style. However-, for those that are devoted to Johnson's style, "In Between Dreams" simply makes his playlist a bit longer. 
Lyrically, the album fits into the typi­cal Johnson pattern of mostly covering day-to-day topics such as girls, rainy days and even "Banana Pancakes." However, per usual, a handful of songs hit some more serious topics such as an anti-war sentiment and the question of, "Where'd all the good people go?" Johnson's lyrics are playful with a point, such as in "Good People" when Johnson sings, "Turn on the boob tube, I'm in the mood to obey." Although at times some of the lyrical choices seem a bit child­like, for the most part they fit with the mood of Johnson's music and as such are forgivable and even enhancing to his work. 


"In Between Dreams" is a just a hint more somber than "Brushfire Fairytales" and "On and On." For the most part the songs are generally mel­low with a couple of pleasant exceptions such as "Never Know" and "Banana Pancakes." "Never Know," one of the best songs on the album. is an upbeat song with a catchy melody. The lyrics are a bit on the serious side as Johnson philosophizes. "Never knowing I We're shocking but we're nothing I We're just moments. we're clever but we're clue­less I We're just human amusing and confusing I We're trying but where is all this leading? I We'll never know." The song is musically memorable and the lyrics have a depth that is not available on every track making "Never Know" stands out in the midst of the other songs on "In Between Dreams." 
Jack Johnson has found a successful formula and he has obviously decided to keep using it. "In Between Dreams" is not groundbreaking. If "In Between Dreams" had been Johnson's debut album it is very possible that he would not be as well-known as he is today. Nonetheless, for fans of Johnson. "In Between Dreams" is 14 more songs to enjoy. Johnson doesn't reinvent himself in his third album, but he doesn't haw to. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
In Between· Dreams Jack Johnson 
Brush Fire 


THE 0HSERVER 





CENE

Thursday, March 17, 2005 page 17 
Jennifer Lopez: No more 'soap opera' 
Associated Pre.­
While other celebrities have taken pains to keep their public life under wraps, Jennifer Lopez always seemed to relish the white-hot spotlight. 
Whetlwr she was frolicking with Ben Affleck in a music video. wearing a handy -t h e r e o u t fi t to d r i v e t h e paparazzi wild or gushing about her latest love in a magazinr., Lopez was willing to lr.t the public share in her private life. 
"I grew up in New York and was very out there and outgoing. One of my main things was I'm not going to let this business change me, you know what I mean'?" explains the Bronx­brml Lopez, 34. "That was always one of my mantras." 
Today. though, as Lopez promotes her fashion line and nr.w album. "l!ebirth," she's slicking by a new mantra -keep her private life pri­vate. It took her eight months to finally acknowledge her June wr.dding to singer-actor Marc Anthony, and she still won't talk about it. Instead. Lopez is trying to put the focus back on her 
ean~1~r. 
"I don't want to talk about anything that is personal or private at all. hncause what's the uso? You're open with people. and then they try and make a soap opera out of your life," Lopez said in an interview with The Associated Press. 
"Then it's not about your work any­more, it's not about the movie you're promoting or the record you hope your fans will enjoy, it becomes about other silly stuff and it's damaging. It's dam­aging not just to your career, but your person." 
For a while, Lopez's stardom seemed to grow in tandem with her tabloid persona. She sold millions of albums, had No. 1 hits and enjoyed box-office success with movies such as "Maid in Manhattan" as the public became more interested in J.Lo, or Jenny From the Block -the woman dating and breaking up with P. Diddy, embarking on another quickie marriage or setting fashion trends with her awards show attire. 
But ·her image started to suffer in 2003, when Lopez was in the midst of a very public romance with Al'f1eck ­the "Bennifer" pairing was that year's Brad-and-Jon frenzy. The couple's overexposure, followed by the and the release of their bomb "Gigli," drew both more scorn than anything. Though the couple split and Lopez later married Anthony -her third husband -the sting from the tabloid attention still lingers. 
"I think it got really loud for a minute for me, and it became not about my work anymore. And the rea­son why I was in the public eye to begin with is because I was in movies. I was making records," she said. "And all of the sudden it wasn't anything about that. And I didn't want it to be about anything else but that." 

So Lopez took a six-month break from Hollywood last year to regroup. 
"For me, what it was it was about kind of being alone, and thinking, and realizing that for me it was really a time for me to realize why I was in the business in the first place," she said. "1-Iow do I keep the focus there, and still maintain my life and the privacy of myself?" 
Lopez -who has released five movies and three albums in the past three years -also felt like she was jamming out projects instead of spend­ing time to reflect on what was right for her. 
Lopez made sure her fourth studio album. "Rebirth," didn't suffer from those circumstances. The star spent several months on it and had a greater role in its production -which boosted her conlidence. 
"I think musically. the first time I made an album, I had never even been in a studio, or behind a mike before. The first time I ever sang live was at Madison Square Garden," she laughed. "You develop this insecurity, and then kind of have to build yourself back up. 
"I've become more confident as a 
musician and as a co-producer and as a vocalist. whereas before I was a littiP more insecure, and kind of so worried about people criticizing me for this or that or whatever." 
Lopez has taken her share of criti­cism over the years -from her feath­er-light voice to even her acting abili­ties. But Rich Harrison. who produced Lopez's new hit "Get Hight," said the hits Lopez have taken has only made her stronger as an artist. 
"She knows what people tend to say about her and it makes her work so much harder, that much harder in the studio," he said. "She's not satisfied until it feels right. until it feels good." 
And Lopez is happy with "Hebirth." It incorporates the hip-hop/dance vibe that's gamered her so much success over the years. but also blends in other genres, including '80s pop-rock. Lopez calls it a more risky album. 
"It's not so safe as my other onl's were," she said. "These are things that are a little funkier. a little deept>r, and yet still danceable in a way." 
She's still willing to take risks with her career. But as far as lwr personal lit'e-she's playing it safe. 
"I used to be the kind of person who would talk about a lot of things, but as I've matured I've realized that's not the best way to gu," she said. "You have to set boundaries ... you have to protect what's sacred to you." 
, 

Masked band seeks recognition 
Slipknot takes its music and message seriously 
A~\ociatnl Prc.\s 
ThP mt•mbnrs of Slipknot arn known for wParing nl'f'arious masks and matching jumpsuits during PVery public appParanre. but don't think it's all a gimmirk. 
Tlwst~ guys insist they're artists. The nirw-piece band has one drummer and two other percussionists. Their sound is driving, loud and complex. Members go by numhPrs 0 t(J 8, which are sewn onto their black uniforms. 
Tlwir gruesome masks, which include a clown face with a bloody head wound and one that looks like dead skin sewn tognther. are worn to make sure fans listen to the music and not watch the faces. They look so unsettling because, well. that's how the music makes them feel. 
Slipknot hails from Des Moines, Iowa -and they're angry about it. Many of lead singer Corey Taylor's lyrics are about pain and frustration growing up in the middle of middle America. 
l'nople can relate. By the time Slipknot linishes its current nationwide tour, their latest CD. "Vol. 3: (The Subliminal Verses)." should become the group's fourth platinum album. 
On a recent afternoon, eight of the mnmhers w1~re crammed into a tiny NBC dressing room for an appearance on Late Night with Conan O'Brien. (Shawn "Clown" Crahan had to stay behind with a sick wife.) Joey Jordison (No. I). Chris Fchn (No. 3) and Taylor (No. 8) brought some seriously sardonic humor to their talk with The Associated Press. 
Q: llow did you come up with the con­
cept for this band? COHEY TAYLOH: Just looking at not only what was going on a local level but an international level and just kind of being disgusted. It was all !1ash and no filling. It was very plastic with no pres­ence. The thing we wanted to do was makP a statl~ment. It occurn~d to us that if we remove ourselves from the equation and just prosented a unified front, it would have a gl'l~ater impact. a rnoro artistic impact. It's really a physi­cal manifestation of what the music is. 
Q: And what is the music? 
JOEY JORDISON: Dark, very dark. but at the same time very moving and beautiful in its own way. 
Q: Why wear masks? 
JOHUISON: It shows we're a solid unit. All of us coming together for a purpose. The masks are a physical rep­resl)ntation of how the music makes us feel. 
Q: It must make you feel bad. One mask looks like Leatherface from The Texas Chain Saw Massacre. 
TAYLOR: It's really easy to compare us to stuff like that, because we wear masks. But we don't write about horror movies, we don't go out of our way to act like ·a horror movie. 
CHRIS FEHN: I think this band is made up of a mental sickness. When I joined the band, before and after prac­tice. they'd be looking online at murder photos, death and bondage photos. 
TAYLOR: We had issues. 
Q: What kind of issues? 
TAYLOH: You don't have enough time, or tape. And you'd have to go get help afterward. All you have to really do is listen to our music. 
Q: Seriously, what is your problem? 
TAYLOR: As far as our beefs go, you'd have to grow up in Des Moines, Iowa, and really deal with the things that we had to deal with. I don't want to get into my background because I already talked about it on albums so I don't want to rehash. But there are real beefs that we have, and it hasn't changed since day one why we do this. 


JORDISON: I hate the cliche of it, but growing up is hard. For anyone. So there's that backdrop. You find some­thing to grasp onto like music, and you try to get it going and be creative and you get put down, and get your fliers torn down. 
Q: Will you run out of stuff eventually to write about? 
TAYLOR: Just when we stop talking about the past the present gives us enough stuff to be angry about for the rest of our lives. Just being in this band and seeing the way people interpret us is enough to frustrate even the most ardent artist. 
Q: How do you think you're interpret­ed? 
TAYLOR: I think we're interpreted as a novelty, and that really bothers me because there is so much substance in this band. People get stuck on the aes­thetic, and it's (expletive). 
JORDISON: We're not an easily digestible band on the first listen. 
Q: Arc you pleased with this album? 
JORDISON: I think it's our best album yet. We will always be a metal band with aggro and high risk, but this 
-~ 
pain and frustration with 

album shows there's not just one Slipknot sound. We're capable of such range. 
TAYLOR: "Iowa" was a very bleak, dark album. But this one you can hear colors, traces of reds and I think that shows how we've evolved as musicians. Plus, corning back together and work­ing together was really a joy. 
Q: So what do those masks smell like? TAYLOH: You want to take a huff'? You can right now. 
FEHN: Be careful if' you do. you'll develop something right on. your f'acn. Just don't touch it and it'll go away in about three weeks. 
(For the record, it smelled moldy and stale, like somcone's basement.) 
Q: Do you still live in Iowa? 
TAYLOH: Yeah, a few of us have moved around now and then, but we've all come back. There's something about Iowa that just keeps you there. 
JORDISON: It's the state equivalent of the "Death Star" with the big tractor beam. 
FEHN: Plus we've all made some money now so we can get the double­wide trailers. 
Thursday, March 17, 2005

page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NBA 
Big Ben breaks record in Pistons' 102-95 win 
Wallace makes his 1,070th career block, passing Terry Tyler in Detroit career record books 
18 for the Pistons, who have

Associated Press 
won four of their last five games. Billups made a career­

AUBURN HILLS, Mich. -On high 15 free throws and tied a the night Ben Wallace broke career high with 16 attempts Detroit's shot-blocking record, at the line. Rasheed Wallace's defense and San Antonio 89, clutch shooting ensured the Minnesota 73 Pistons would win their 1Oth in Hobert Horry is warming up a row at home. for the postseason. 
Chauncey Billups tied a sea­Horry scored 18 points in 21 

son high with 32 points and minutes, making four of his Rasheed Wallace had nine of five 3-point attempts, to help his 24 during a key stretch of the San Antonio Spurs to a win the fourth quarter to lift over the Minnesota Detroit to a 102-95 win over Timberwolves on Wednesday Seattle on Wednesday night. night. 
"We knew we had to step it For Horry. signed by the up at the defensive end to end Spurs for his perimeter scor­it," Rasheed Wallace said. ing. the production was his 
Hashard Lewis' three-point highest in nearly two seasons 

play midway through the with the team. fourth quarter put Seattle "Hight now I think everyone ahead 83-82. its first lead in is trying to get in a rhythm." 
almost 10 minutes. said Horry, averaging 5.0 
The teams took turns with points per game and shooting the lead before Hasheed 34 percent from behind the Wallace turned two steals into arc. "I felt pretty good tonight a dunk and a mid-range and wanted to keep shooting jumper, giving the Pistons a it." 91-90 lead. Richard Hamilton Tim Duncan, who scored 25 then connected on a 3-pointer, points and had 14 rebounds and Tayshaun Prince made two and five blocks, said Horry is free throws to seal the victory. just starting to get serious. 
"Sheed went on a little tear "Rob just messes around the and when he gets rolling, it's entire season until he's ready Wednesday night. lately, they can even survive a posted their seventh straight tough to stop him because he to play -that's his m.o. ," . The victory was the fifth poor .fourth quarter and gain a win over Chicago. can do it at both ends," said Duncan said with a smirk. "He straight for the Atlantic win. Carter enjoyed his third Ben Wallace, whose first of felt tonight was a playoff-type Division-leading Celtics and "We don't play defense," straight strong game against three blocks surpassed Terry game and he said, 'Hey, I'll their ninth in 10 games since Boston coach Doc Rivers said the Bulls since joining the Tyler's franchise record of play. Let me play."' acquiring Walker from Atlanta of his team's fourth-quarter Nets. He led New Jersey with 1,070. The Spurs, playing a fourth on Feb. 24. fade. "That was horrible. 31 and 2 5 points in the prior 
"It's a good feeling to accom­straight game without swing­A few players on Boston's We've come a long way when victories. plish a milestone like that," he man Manu Ginobili, made 12 bench were teasing Hose after we win a game and the guys "This was all about what we said. "And. it feels good to get of their first 15 shots to quickly Pierce nailed a jumper and have their heads down. They needed to do," said Carter. "We it at home." open a double-digit lead they was fouled on Boston's first were upset, frustrated. came out aggressive and ready 
Lewis scored 26 for the maintained for most of the possession of the game, saying Tony Allen finished with 16 to play and ready to win." SuperSonics, who had won game. "He's going to foul you out." points for Boston, including a The Bulls played without four straight on the road. "In the first three or four After Pierce missed a jumper pair of big baskets in the final leading scorer Eddy Curry 
"When the game was on the minutes we got down six in the closing seconds, the 1:46. Davis had 14. (15.6 points per game) who line. we fell apart." Seattle points, then all of a sudden [we Raptors came down for the "We're not really happy with missed the game with a left coach Nate McMillan said. were] down 15 or 16," final shot without calling time­the way we played in the hamstring strain. They strug­
Seattle's Ray Allen missed all Minnesota coach Kevin McHale out. Palacio's drive bounced off fourth quarter," Pierce said. gled to pick up the slack. with four of his shots and was held said. the backboard, and the buzzer "We know we could improve, the bench doing most of the to two points in the first half San Antonio shot 70 percent sounded. especially on the defensive scoring as the starters com­before finishing with 20 points in the first quarter and 35 per­"I felt like we had a better end." bined for only 37 points. on 6-of-11 shooting. cent after that, but the chance of getting to the basket New Jersey 100, Chicago 84 Andres Nocioni and Ben 
"We had the game under Timberwolves managed only or maybe getting a foul," Jason Kidd helped the New Gordon each had 15 points. 
<. control and a three-point lead 39 percent for the game. The Haptors coach Sam Mitchell Jersey Nets get off to a fast Tyson Chandler had 12 points and then we turn the ball over Spurs made half of their 14 3-said of not calling timeout in start, and they never let up. and 14 rebounds. Adrian twice," he said, referring to pointers and committed only the final six seconds. "The big thing is that we set Griffin and Jannero Pargo each Hasheed Wallace's steals. eight turnovers, compared to Davis appeared to be yelling the tone early," said Kidd, who scored 10. "That was the game." 20 turnovers for Minnesota. into Palacio's ear as the had 22 points, 11 rebounds Kidd scored on a layup 45 
Allen bristled when he was Boston 110, Toronto 109 Raptors guard walked to mid­and eight assists in a victory seconds into the game, and the asked about his shot total. The Boston Celtics taunted court. over the Chicago Bulls on Nets were off and running. 
"No, I'm not getting enough Jalen Hose early, and Ricky "We were talking trash the Wednesday night. "We came They quickly sprinted to a 15-2 looks," he said. "You've gotta Davis got on Milt Palacio when whole fourth quarter," Palacio out aggressive and played like lead as Kidd set the pace with talk to the coach." it was over. said. "I kept telling him he we had something to play for." four points and a pair of
·­
Jerome James added 12 Paul Pierce and Antoine wasn't going to score on me, Vince Carter scored 30 points assists. points and reserve Antonio Walker each scored 24 points, and he kept telling me I wasn't as the Nets completed a season The Bulls never recovered. Daniels scored 10 points for and the Celtics nearly blew a going to score on him. He sweep of the Bulls. Jason "I felt like our start was real­the Sonics. 16-point fourth-quarter lead thought he played me. I Collins had 14 points and 11 ly poor," said Bulls coach Scott 
Hichard Hamilton and before pulling out a win over thought I got fouled. rebounds and Nenad Krstic Skiles. "We were never able to Tayshaun Prince each scored the Toronto Haptors on The way the Celtics are going. added 11 points as the Nets recover from it." 

• The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOTICES 
Get paid to think. Make $75 taking on-line surveys. www.moneyauthor.com 
Close to NO Excellent area. 19237 Cleveland,6-7bdrm; 202 E. Cripe 4bdrm; 222 E. Willow 3bdrm. 2773097 
FOR SALE 
OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 4 rm. 2 bath. For details timbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900. 
96 BMW 328i, white w/gray leather, automatic, sun roof, heated seats, 136k, great car! Under blue book at $6300. 607-6680. 
FOR RENT 
Clean homes close to NO. 2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent program. Blue & Gold Homes 
(574)250-7653 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 
S.B. AVE-605 ST PETER CALL 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 
6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH+ DEP. STAFF AND FAG­ULTY ONLY CALL BRUCE 876­3537. 
2-3 bdrm houses avail. now and 05­
06. Close to NO. Call 276-2333. Omni Properties 
KNOLLWOOD HOME FOR RENT, 4BD,2.5 BATH,$1650. 858-722­4469. 
CORBY ST HOUSE 4 RENT MAY­JULY CALL 284-5223. 
Walk or bus to campus. 4 br/2b newly remodeled. Laundry,garage. 574-876-8571 2,4 & 5 B-Rooms, close to campus, call 234-9923, ask for Rod. 

Close to NO Excellent area. 19237 Cleveland,6-7bdrm; 202 E. Cripe 4bdrm; 222 E. Willow 3bdrm. 2773097 
WANTED 

Catholic family offering full time summer childcare opportunity; 4 children ages 6 to 12; Scottsdale Mall area; 7:30am to 4:30 pm;wages negotiable; non smoker; own transportation needed. 
Call Maureen 360-1738. 
Summer Camp Counselor for chi I­dren w/disabilities. 
Must have strong work ethic and be interested in making a difference in the life of a child. 
$7-$11 hr., 35 hr/wk, summer only. 

6 sites in Summit County, Ohio. 
Must enjoy outdoor activities. 
Visit www.akroncyo.org to down· load an application from the Job Opportunities link. 
EOE 
PERSONAL 
Typist!Transcriptionist for Faculty & 
Students Professional results. Call 
Lori (574)291·9945 
Chicago Region: 
Illinois 
Nevada 
UW Milwaukee 
BC 
UAB 
Arizona 
So. Illinois 
OK State 
Illinois, UWM, Arizona, OK State 
Illinois, Arizona 
Arizona 

Thursday, March 17, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
I 
~

Washington looking to validate their No. 1 seed ~ I 

The Huskies are in the tour­Montana would need to make

The Huskies open the 
nament for the 12th time and history by becoming the first first round against have never been seeded higher 16th seed to upset a No. 1. 
than fifth. Last season ended "There's been a few almosts

Montana tonight with a first-round loss to with the 16s and the 1 s. But you 
Alabama-Birmingham, which know. the committee's not per­

A.!!.~nciated Pres!. 
still burns the Huskies much fect. There's nothing saying that 

BOISI~. Idaho The more than anyone questioning Washington couldn't bn a three Washington lluskies an~ grow­th1~ir snnding. seed and we could be a 14," ing tin·d of talking about their Washington hadn't been to the Montana coach Larry No. I SPPd in the Albuquerque tournament since 1999 and Krystkowiak said. H•~gional. Conroy admitted "I don't think 
l>oubtPrs ran argun all they somn lluskies there's any ques­want. but tlw sPnd lwlongs to were so thrilled "I guess people tion that we're not tlw lluskins and tlwy finally can about ending the aren't going to be the best team. but start barking it up Thursday drought that they what makl~S this
satisfied until we

wlwn tlu•y play Montana in the weren't quito tinw of year spncial opPning round of thn NCAA n~ady for UAB. win the national is we could play a tournanwnt. "WP wnro sat­championship." gn1at game, 
"That's not sonwthing that WP isfi•~d with that. Washington could askPd for. WP didn't go lwg to bn This y•~ar we're have a subpar
Nate Robinson

a No. I SPPd. Tlu•y stuck us with not just satisfied game and all of a that numbPr," guard Will with making it to Washington guard sudden we've got a 
Conroy said. "W1~ don't care thP tournament." what snnd wn WPre. It's just a Con roy said. numbPr." This s1mson, Conroy said it's 
ThP Jluskil~s (27-5) are frus­all business for the Iluskies. I lis tratPd that they seem to be the cell phone is ofT by <J p.m. and only tnam among the four top he won't be returning any calls s•~•~ds taking lwat for something until next week at the earliest. tlwy had no say in. Washington "We're on a mission," Conroy lwat Arizona H 1-7 2 on Saturday said. night to win tlw Pac-1 0 tourna­The Huskies come from about nwnt, then waitnd for the NCM two hours closer to Boise than snlnction committee to decide Montana (18-12): Boise is a six­on tlw Sfll)dings. hour drive from Seattle and 
"I gtwss people aren't going to about eight hours from be satisfied until we win the Missoula. The winner will play national championship," guard in the second round against NatP Hobinson said. "I guess either Pacific (26-3) or that's what tlwy want to see us Pittsburgh (20-8), who open do, so wP·n~ going to go out and play in Boise on Thursday try to accomplish that." morning. 
fun ballgame to watch. That's the reality of it." 
The Boise lineup features sev­eral teams familiar with the others in town. but they're not in the same regional. 
Arizona (27 -6) plays Utah State (24-7) Thursday night in the Chicago Regional. The Aggies made it to the tourna­ment by winning the Big West championship against Pacific. which plays Pitt earlier Thursday in Boise. 
And Hobinson said the Huskies. provided they win Thursday, will be cheering on their Pac-1 0 rivals later in the day. 


~ 
I ( 
I 
•~ 
( 
I ( 
( ( 
1 
I i I I I 
I 
I 
( 
I I I 
I 
I I I I I I 
~ 
1 
l 
The last game Thursday is have played 4H times, but not I ( Louisiana State (27 -6) against since 1994-%. And the c;rizzlics ( ( Alabama-Birmingham (21-1 0). have won the last thrnn meet­I 
I
After the Blazers defeated ings. ( Washington in 2004, they beat The Grizzlies and Huskies I top-seeded Kentucky in the sec­could've played at the beginning I ( ond round before getting of the season, but Krystkowiak I 
I 
knocked out by Kansas in the said Montana opted for another I ( regional semifinals. non-conference home game I 
LSU is back in the tournament rather than hit the West Coast. I I after missing out last spring. Krystkowiak denied reports I ( The Tigers struggled early to a the Grizzlies, who clinched their I I 6-5 record. then went on to win sixth NCAA tournament appear­I 
Ithe Southeastern Conference ance by winning the Big Sky I 
West. tournament. backed out of the I I Montana and Washington game. I I I 
,------­
I I 
Thursday, March 17, 2005 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 
AUTO RACING 



Formula One will 
have competition 
Associated Press Maktoum said he has agree­
ments nearly ready for all 25 
MEXICO CITY -An ambi­teams and said the final grid tious new global auto racing should be public by the end of series unveiled Mexican and April. Brazilian teams as it displayed "We pretty much are guar­the A1 Grand Prix car for the anteed to have Germany, first time in the France, Italy, Americas. Spain -all the 
But the suc­"Look at the slick major European cess of the ven­countries," he
tires, we have 
ture might have said. "We have
bigger tires than 
less to do with Africa covered, all the sleek open Formula One. " the Middle East wheeler than covered, Asia cov­with the mari­ered, Australia
Sheik Maktoum 
achis blaring tra­covered. We're
founder 


due to an injury that was not immediately announced. In women's qualifying, Slutskaya led her group with 
119.08 points. American Sasha Cohen topped the other group with a score of 113.64. Cohen skated to Tchaikovsky's "Nutcracker Suite" pas de deux, a program that was solid but less vivid than her best performances. She simply may have been sleepy. 
"I even went to the 6 a.m. practice," Cohen said. "It was risky but I decided I need to get a better feeling of the ice." 
Kwan, who scored 99.96, didn't have a good feeling on the ice. 
The new scoring system, developed in the wake of the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympics scandal, has been used at Grand Prix events for two sea­sons, but Kwan has stayed off that circuit. This is the sys­tem's debut at the worlds and Kwan's first direct exposure to it. 
Because it gives a separate number for each element rather than one overall techni­cal mark, the system requires more concentration from skaters. who also have to be concerned that it deducts points on missed jumps and lower levels of difliculty. Kwan scaled down two jumps to dou­bles. including a planned triple-double-double that turned into just a double t1ip. and two-footed her final triple. 
"I was counting my spins more than I usually do in the long program," she said. "1 think I had too many things to think about. It was not very good. It was not very good at all." 
Slutskaya, on the other hand, loaded her program with high-scoring elements. firing off five triple jumps com­pared with Kwan's three. 
Slutskaya was energetic on the ice, showing no indication of the heart lining inflamma­tion that she's been fighting for two years. Off the ice she was visibly tired and breathing heavily. 
"In principle I'm satisfied, but I can do better," she said. 
The qualifying round cuts the field for the short program to 30, and 25 percent of the qualifying round score is added to the total of the free and short programs for the final score. 


ditional music 
around it: The 
A 1 Grand Prix is all about 
national pride. 
Sheik Maktoum Hasher Maktoum, a member of Dubai's ruling family and founder of the series, says he is building "the World Cup of motor sports," a place where national teams battle for pride on an unusually even footing. 
Twenty-five countries ­ranging from Lebanon to China to the United States ­will have one entry apiece, owned and driven by a local competitor and with local sponsors. 
All of the cars will be the same: 550-horsepower Zytec­powered open wheelers that Maktoum has bought from Britain's Lola

.. Cars. Racing is 
supposed to ''You can't compare from being over­start Sept. 25 at us to any other whelmed. Brands Hatch, "The thing is,
motor sports 
England, and look at the aerody­
event."
finish in April. namics. Look at 
"You can't the slick tires," compare us to Sheik Maktoum Maktoum said. any other motor "We have bigger
founder 
sports event on the planet," he said in an interview before unveiling the Mexican car late Monday. "As far as I'm con­cerned, we're going to be the biggest in terms of popularity, in terms of everything, viewer­ship." 
Asked how long it would take to pass the global popu­larity of Formula One, he replied: "The first race." 
If that's brash. there's at least a logic to it: He thinks A1 will attract many fans with lit­tle racing to watch during the winter months. Even more new fans will be drawn by having a national team to root for, he said. 
"We're looking to have 30 percent motor sports, 70 per­cent new fans," he said. 
If patriotism lures fans, then sponsors in each country will have only one place to go; the national team will have a local monopoly. 
Maktoum said Heal Madrid soccer star Ronalda was awarded the Brazilian team. Mexico's team is held by two businessmen, Juan Cortina and Julio Jauregui. 
Some of the teams have drawn enormous local interest due to the idea of their coun­try competing on level ground with the world's automotive powers. 
In Pakistan, President Pervez Musharraf oversaw the announcement of that coun­try's team. Nelson Mandela and President Theo Mbeki were on hand for South Africa's announcement. 
sold out already." 
The schedule, though, is still fuzzy beyond Brands Hatch. In Mexico's case, Federico Alaman, the motor sports chief for promot­er OCESA, said his company has started talks with the Mexican A1 team for a possi­ble February date at the Hermanos Rodriguez road course in Mexico City. 
The car itself is quite pretty for a racing vehicle -.includ­ing stylized air ducts, custom wheels and shark-like vents near the engine. 
The cars' horsepower is far below that of Formula One ­up to 900 horsepower -or the 650 to 750 of Indy and Champ cars. The lower horse­power may keep less-experi­
enced drivers from 
developing nations 
tires than Formula 
One." 
Team managers and crew are ex'empt from the locals­only policy. Any country can hire the best managers and mechanics around. And teams will be given limited time to work on their cars. 
Maktoum, 28, is the son of one of Dubai's most prominent businessmen. 
FIGURE SKATING 

Michelle K wan struggling on ice 
Scoring system gives former Olympian fits 
Associated Press 

MOSCOW -Michelle Kwan was so distracted by figure skating's new scoring system that the five-time champion struggled to her worst showing in more than a decade in the world championships' qualify­ing round. 
Her tentative performance Wednesday was just seventh best. And she wasn't helped by an unassuming program not geared to maximizing the points awarded for technical challenges. 
"I got thrown instead of get­ting into the ice," she said, adding that she felt fine physi­cally but was uncomfortable with the new system. "I felt, like, above the ice and I didn't feel that I could bend my legs." 
Irina Slutskaya. a Russian who often has been defeated by Kwan at the world champi­onships, this time was at the top after an assured and emo­tional qualifying skate that was all the more impressive because she's still battling heart problems. 
In the first medals of this year's competition, Russians Tatiana Totmianina and Maxim Marinin capped a remarkable comeback by retaining their championship in the pairs event. They skated a nearly flawless and intensely romantic program to Rimsky­Korsakov's "Scheherezade." 
The victory came a few months after a near catastro­phe, when Totmianina fell on her head at Skate America in Pittsburgh and was uncon­scious for several minutes. At the end of their program, both seemed more overwhelmed than triumphant, raising their hands to their faces and taking several· seconds before acknowledging the cheers. 
Russians Maria Petrova and Alexei Tikhonov were second, followed by China's Zhang Dan and Zhang Hao, who unex­pectedly moved up after the withdrawal of compatriots Shen Xue and Zhao Hongbo 

on st. patrick's day, 

"remember have one m eroad,you'll th atrooper as your chaser." 

-officer tim mccarthy sponsored by student government 
Thursday, March 17, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
Utah's 7-foot Bogut looks to play big in dance 
Associated Press 
TUCSON. Ariz. -lie was born in Australia. The roots of his garnn arc from his parents' native Croatia. lie was a star in Athens and has carried Utah into the NCAA tournament. 
Basketball is an international game, and 7 -foot Andrew Bogut is its latest rising star. 
Soon, the NBA will make him a lottnry pick, maybe the No. 1 choice overall. Before that. though, Bogut has some unfin­ished business with the Utes. 
"llen~·s a guy that no one's been able to stop all year," UTEI' coach Doc Sadler said. "lie's probably the prmnier guy in college baskntball. If they're talking about whether or not you're going to be the third pick or the first pick. that's pretty good. I rn1~an. what can't lw do?" 
Sadler's 11th-seeded Miners (27 -7) will try to contain Bogu t and tlw No. 6 sp,ml Utes (27-5) Thursday in a first-round Austin Hegion ganw at Arizona's McKale Center. The g;ime will bP the second afternoon eontnst. In tlw l'irst ganw. No. 3 seed Oklahoma (24-7), the Big 12 rngular-snason champion. will play 14th-seeded Niagara (20­1)). making its first NCAA tour­nanwnt appearance in 35 years. 
The 1w1ming contests feature teams from the Albuquerque Hegion. No. 3 seed Gonzaga (25­
4) f'aeos No. 14 Winthrop (27-5). and sixth seed Texas Tech (20­
10) plays No. 11 seed UCLA (18­
10) in the nightcap. 
Utah wants Bogut to touch the ball on every possession. If he doesn't score -and he can even hit an occasional 3-pointer -then the collapsing zone defense or double-team leave a teammate wide open. 
"He's throwing it out, and we're basically playing horse out there," Ute guard Tim and is third in Division I at 12.3 rebounds per game. He made 64 percent of his shots. third­best in the country. 
"To see what he's been able to do for this team and this pro­gram this year is really amaz­ing," said coach Ray Giacoletti, hired after last season when Majerus resigned for health rea­sons. "He's the focal point, but the rest of the group has really 


Drisdom said. "We 'To see what he's bought in to get a lot of open been able to do for understand that jump shots, and he needs to touch
this team and this
it's up to us to the basketball 
program this year 
knock them whether it be in down." is really amazing." transition or the Bogut was halfcourt game. recruited by Rick That's something,
Ray Glacolettl
Majerus and was to me, that is even 
Utah coach
Mountain West more special." 
freshman of the year last season. But his game truly blossomed with the Australian national team at the Athens Olympics, wher·p, he averaged 14.8 points and 8.8 rebounds in live games. lie returned to the college game a wiser player. 
"I'm playing with guys my ago again," the 20-year-old from Melbourne said. "In the Olympics, you're playing guys who are 26, 27 with experience playing all around the world. I came back to play against guys my age and my strength. I thought I could do very well, and I've done pretty well to this point." 
Bogut is averaging 20.7 points UTEP. in its first 
season under Sadler, wants to make Bogut and the rest of the Utes run. 
"lie's going to get his points and rebounds," UTEP forward Omar Thomas said. "We know he's a good player, that he's a top-five pick. lie's going to do what he dons. We're just going to hope he doesn't kill us too bad. We're going to play UTEP basketball and make him run up and down the court. what he's not used to, and make him guard our big man." 
Thomas leads the Miners in scoring at 20.4 points per game, but Puerto Hican point guard Filiberto Hivera makes the team go. 


is accepting applications for 
student comic artists 
for the 2005-06 publishing year. 
Please submit five samples of your work with a name and campus phone number to Claire Heininger in The Observer office in the basement of South Dining Hall by Friday, March 25. 
Questions? Contact Claire at 1-4542. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 17, 2005 
MLB 
Congress and MLB meet this afternoon 
Historically, the U.S. government has paid attention to baseball 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Politics may be Washington's official sport, but baseball has been a con­gressional passion for a centu­ry. 
When several of baseball's biggest stars appear before a House panel Thursday, they will be following in the foot­steps of some of the sport's greatest players. Hall of Famers Mickey Mantle, Ty Cobb, Jackie Robinson, Ted Williams, Stan Musial and Bob Feller all took turns before Congress, which seems to pay more attention to baseball than any other sport. 
"Maybe because it's older, it's the national pastime, and because it has sort of a special status with its antitrust exemp­tion." said Senate Historian Donald Ritchie. He noted the Senate used to adjourn to go watch the president throw out the first pitch when the Washington Senators opened their season. 
Over the years, Congress has taken aim at the antitrust exemption, drug use among 

.. players and franchise reloca­tions. On Thursday. Baltimore Orioles outfielder Sammy Sosa and Boston Red Sox pitcher Curt Schilling will be among the stars called before a House committee investigating steroid use, along with former sluggers Mark McGwire and Jose Canseco. The leadoff witness will be Sen. Jim Bunning, a Kentucky Republican and Hall of Fame pitcher. Congress has been interested in baseball issues since the early days of the game. In 1913. Rep. Thomas Gallagher, D-Ill., called for a congression­al investigation of baseball's "reserve clause," which until the 1970s bound players to one team for their entire careers unless they were traded or released. Gallagher said play­ers were "enslaved and forced to accept salaries and terms or be forever barred from play­ing." His call followed a contract dispute in which Cobb, the Detroit Tigers star known for his hitting prowess and win-at­all-costs attitude. refused to report because the team would not raise his salary to a then­exorbitant $15,000. 
Cobb would defend the reserve clause at a congres­sional hearing nearly 40 years later. Without the clause, Cobb told the House Judiciary antitrust subcommittee in 1951. "all the strong clubs or the richest men could hire away from the weaker clubs." That is what critics of the New York Yankees and other free­spending teams say happens today. 
The Supreme Court solidified the reserve clause in 1922 by granting Major League Baseball an exemption from antitrust laws. ruling it was a sport and not a business. That exemption has remained a focus of congressional over­sight ever since, although in 1996 the Supreme Court ruled that unionized employees can't file antitrust suits. 
In 1951, Rep. Emanuel Celler, D-N.Y., held a series of hear­ings on "monopoly power" in which lawmakers threatened to revoke the exemption to prod baseball to expand to the West Coast. At the time, there were only 16 major leagues teams, none west of St. Louis. 
Six years later, the Brooklyn Dodgers and New York Giants announced plans to move to Los Angeles and San Francisco, respectively. That prompted Celler, a rabid Dodgers fan, to hold more hearings in the antitrust subcommittee. 
"In one breath, they say baseball is a sport, not subject to antitrust regulations." he said. "In another breath, they say they have the right to move franchises in the interest of dollars, selling to the highest bidder." 
At a hearing three weeks later, commissioner Ford Frick predicted doom for baseball if the antitrust exemption and the reserve clause were eliminated. 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
State rivals meet in Indiana 

Making the matchup even Missouri, then transferred to more painful for basketball Kentucky where he became a fans in the Bluegrass State is two-time all-Southeastern that Travis Ford will be coach­Conference selection. As a jun­ing on the opposite sideline. ior, he was the first Kentucky 
Ford is in his fifth season as player to make 100 3-pointers Eastern Kentucky's coach and in a season and helped lead the has revived a once dormant Wildcats to the Final Four. program that combined for just The year he had to sit out nine wins in the two seasons because of NCAA transfer rules before he arrived in 2000-01. Ford worked tirelessly with 
"When I came here, this pro­Smith. Ford said Wednesday he gram was pretty much still attends Kentucky practices garbage," Haney said. "What and that Smith has embraced any player wants is to leave ~he his presence. program better than it was." Ford's task now, though. is to 
Eastern Kentucky won a beat his alma mater. Some school record 22 games this have even joked that the only year, and their 8-1 start was way he can keep his job in a the best since 1948-49. state with deep basketball 
Ford's connections to roots and passionate Kentucky Kentucky run much deeper. fans would be to lose After growing up a Wildcats Thursday's first-round game. fan in Madisonville, Ky., he But that's not in Ford's 
·started his collegiate career at nature. 
#16 Notre Dame Men's Tennis 
TODAY @ 4:00 PM vs #3 Illinois 
Eck Tennis Pavilion 

FREE ADMISSION! 
(} 
...... ~ ...... 


Eastern Kentucky coach has difficult task with alma mater 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS -Eastern Kentucky forward Michael Haney heard his friends' subtle message early this week. 
They wished him luck in beating their beloved Kentucky -but not too much. 
"A lot of kids were talking about what if we did beat Kentucky," Haney said Wednesday. "But the fact that so many people love UK, you see a lot of mixed ~1motions." 
Those feelings will be on national display Thursday when the in-state schools about 30 miles apart meet in the first round of the NCAA tourna­ment. 
Kentucky (25-5). as usual, has dominated the series. The Wildcats have won all eight games including the last four by 15 or more and three by at least 29 points. 
The fans aren't the only ones with mixed loyalties. 
Wildcats forward Chuck Hayes said he knows most of the Eastern Kentucky players personally after competing against them in a Lexington, Ky., summer league. Forward, Kelenna Azubuike, said he would even root for the Colonels (22-8) if they weren't playing the Wildcats. 
"Being from Kentucky. I'd root for them to go as far as they can," Azubuike said. "It's kind of crazy. We have to play them and beat them." 
They're not alone. 

"Being so close, we have a lot of fans that support both pro­grams," said Kentucky coach Tubby Smith. "They have that David-versus-Goliath drome, where if they can take advantage of a weakness, they're going to utilize it." 


Thursday, March 17, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
NBA 

Court sentences brawlers 
Three men receive punishment for their role in NBA fight 
HOCIIESTim IIILLS. Mich.­Thrnn men wnre sentBnced Wndrwsday to probation and community service for their part in a brawl among players and fans at a Pistons-Pacers game. 
Alvin Shackelford Jr. and Charlin lladdad pleaded no con­test to violating a local ordi­nance against entnring a pP.r­formancn space. Jeremy llanrlley plnaded guilty to violat­ing a local ordinancn against throwing objects at a perform­ancP or sporting twtmt. 
Four otlwr fans and five Indiana playPrs arn charged with misdPmnanor assault and battnry in tlw light. A fifth fan is accused of violating the same local ordinance as llandley. Anothnr fan, Bryant Jackson. has bnt~n ordered to stand trial for fnlony assault for throwing a chair. 
District Judge Lisa i\sadoorian bnratnrl ShackP.lford. lladdad and llandley for thnir role in what she callt~d thn "ugly evnnt" at Tlw l'alac1~ of Auburn I !ills. 
"BPcausn of you. this commu­nity has rncniverl an undnsnrvnd, unjust. big black p,ye that still leaves us smarting," shn told thnm. "You will forP.ver be known -as has been put to me so ofwn -as 'one of those idiots at Tlw Palace."' 
Shackelford and Iladdad, both 21 and of Burt. were at the Nov. IIJ ganw togetlwr. 
Asadoorian gave tlw harshest sPntt~nen to If ad dad. who authorities say was punched by two Indiana players. lie will have to serve two years of pro­bation and 100 hours of commu­nity service, plus 10 weekends in a row in a county work pro­gram. 

Shackelford, who has said he follo\\:'ed his friend down to the court out of concern. was sen­tenced to a year of probation and 150 hours of community service. Shackelford was hit by Pacers forward Hon Artest after approaching the player on the court during the melee. 
Handley was sentenced to a year of probation and 75 hours of community service. The 31­year-old resident of Macomb County's Chesterfield Township. 
in January turned himself in after seeing his face on televi­sion as someone for whom police were looking. Asadoorian said Handley threw an empty cup during the brawl. 
Shackelford and Handley both apologized to the judge for tak­ing up the court's time and said they were embarrassed about the incident. Haddad's lawyer apologized on his behalf but said his client would make no state­ment because of his pending lawsuit against Indiana players Jermaine O'Neal, Anthony Johnson and the Pacers organi­zation. 
Shackelford's lawyer, Hichard Alger. said his client was still considering whether to sue. 
The Hispanic Law Students' Association cordially invites the Notre Dame communityto attend this year's 
Graciela Olivarez Award Ceremony Saturday, March 19, 2005 

This prestigious award is given in honor ofGraciela Olivarez, thefirst Hispanic ·and first female to graduate from NDLS. The Awardis bestowed each yearupon aHispanic lawyer or judge who best exemplifies Graciela Olivarez's commitment to community service, demonstration of the highest ethical and moral standards, and dedication to justice. This year's recipient is Mercedes Colwin, Partner, Correspondent, &Community Activist. 
Award Ceremony begins at n:oo am in the Law School Courtroom 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
National title in reach for Illinois 
The Illini will play Fairleigh Dickinson today in first round 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Illinois spent most of this season stak­ing its claim as the nation's best team. 
After winning 32 of 33 games, rolling to Big Ten reg­ular-season and tournament titles and protecting its No. I ranking for 15 consecutive weeks. Illinois can finally focus Wildcats (25-5) deservt~d tlw last No. I seed. Instead, Kentucky drew tlw second send in the Austin Hegion and a first-round matehup against Eastt~rn Kentucky (22-8), a school located about 30 miles south of Lexington and coached by ex-Wildcat Travis Ford. 
Cincinnati (24-7). the sev­enth seed in Austin. will try to reach the round of I(J for the first limP. since 200 I against Iowa (2 I-1 I) and coach StPve Alford. one of Indiana's favorite sons. Alford IN! tlw lloosit~rs to tlw IIJH7 national 
on its real mis­"We've championship. a sion -winning run that start1~d
accomplished a lot 
a national title. with two wins in 
"This is what of things along the Indianapolis. we've worked way. But at the "You just start for since last thinking about
same time. you're
year ... to have all the little, dif­
this opportuni­still hungry for ferent things,"
..
ty," coach Bruce more. Alford said. Weber said. "Obviously, they "We've accom­were very spe­
Bruce Weber
plished a lot of cial then. and 

Illinois coach 
things along the those are memo-way. But at the ries that haven't same time, faded any now. I you're still hungry for more." can still remember an awful 
Top-seeded Illinois (32-1) lot of plays." knows the dangers of early Tlw other contest pits last NCAA tournament games. Two year's tournamP.nt darling, years ago at the same Nevada (24-6), te No. 9 seed in Indianapolis dome where they Chicago, against a Texas team open against 16th-seeded that linishP.d 20-1 0 after start­Fairleigh Dickinson on ing 12-2. Thursday, the Illini escaped Most of the attention with a 65-60 first-round victo­Thursday. though. will be ry over Western Kentucky, focused on the lllini. whose then lost to Notre Dame in the only loss ranw in tlw n~gular­second round. snason l'inalP 
There's whnn Ohio more at stake Stat!' hit a 3­this time. pointt~r with 
No top seed "We're going to find any 5.1 seconds 
has ever lost advantage we have and lnft. to a 16th Other than
try to exploit it." 
seed, and that. Illinois whether it's has been fair or not Gordon Klalbor nearly per­Illinois fans Fairleigh Dickinson forward fnct. 
expect noth­ing less than a Final Four run. 
"Every team expects to gP.t to the Final Four and I nwan that," Kentucky coach Tubby Smith said Wednesday. "Illinois has had a great sea­son, and I don't think anything that happens now you can be disappointed with because they've had a great run." 
Try telling that to tlw lllini. 
They responded to tlwir only loss by dicing up Northwestern. Minnesota and Wisconsin to win thP Big Ten tournami~nt. Tlw title was bit­tersweet for Weber. whose mother. Dawn. died af'ter last Friday's victory over the Wildcats. 
The funeral was Tuesday. and if' the Illinois playnrs respond like they did last weekend, the lllini could find themselves headed back to Chicago for the regionals. 
"You get great support from the players," said Gene Keady, Weber's boss at Purdue for 18 seasons. "If they're character guys, they're going to win the game for you because they're so focused." 
The other matchups in Indianapolis are just as intriguing. 
Some believe Smith's 
It has beat­
en Pight 
r a n k e d 

teams. including then-No. I Wakt' Fornst. and won all 13 of its contests against NCAA tourna­ment teams. Elevt~ll of those victorins were by double dig­its. 
Th1~ Ill in i average rwarly nine 3-pointnrs per game, Pighth nationally, and rank third in tlw nation in assists with 6 I:~. Tlwy've oulrt'­boundPd oppon(•nts by four w~r gamP and in I .:~25 Ill in­utes this year have lrailC'd for a total of I<U minutPs. 17 SPI'­onds. 
For FairiPigh Dickinson (20­12). it's a riHtllt:«' to makP a munP for itself. 
Thn Knights' last appear­ance in thn NCM tournanwnt was 1!)IJR and they know tlw odds arc against thmn. Illinois enters as a 26 1/2-point favorite. 
"We're going to l'ind any· advantage we have and try to exploit it," Knights' forward Gordon Klaibor said. 
Illinois' mission is more defined. 
It needs six more wins to complete the best season in school history 1 (JO-year histo­ry with a national champi­onship. 

Thursday, March 17, 2005 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Woes continue for basketball in Hoosier state 

Indiana not ready for NIT, loses in opening round to Vanderbilt 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON. Ind. Indiana might not. have been happy playing in the National Invitation Tournament, but Vanderbilt seemed to be. 
The Commodores took control of the game early and never trailed in a 67-60 win over Indiana in the opening round of the NIT on Wednesday night. 
The Hoosiers came out flat and uninspired, showing signs of disappointment from being left out of the NCAA tourna­ment. 
"I think some teams come out and they don't want to be in the NIT," said Vanderbilt forward Corey Smith, who finished with 25 points. "It seemed as if Indiana came out kind of low." 
The Commodores (19-13) played with enthusiasm all night. and they'll advance to play the winner of the Wichita State-Western Kentucky game in the second round. 
"Regardless of whether it's the NIT or the NCAA tourna­ment, you never want to lose," Smith said. "You never want to end it on a bad note." 
For the Hoosiers (15-14), their season couldn't have ended on a worse note. After losing to Minnesota 71-55 i,n the· opening game of the Big Ten tourna­ment, Indiana struggled to find any rhythm in its first NIT appearance since 1985. 
"We tried to prepare them the best we could for this game, but I thought we did a poor job of getting our guys ready to play," Indiana coach Mike Davis said. "I did a poor job getting our guys ready and excited about the NIT." 
After Vanderbilt took a 53-42 lead late in the second half, the Hoosiers used a 12-6 run to close the gap to five with 1:09 left. But four straight free throws by Shan Foster and Smith pushed the lead back to 63-54 with 34 seconds left. 
Foster finished with 11 points and DeMarre Carroll scored nine for the Commodores, who shot 50 percent from the field. 
Bracey Wright had 17 points and four rebounds, and Robert Vaden scored 13 for Indiana. The Hoosiers home attendance of 5,113 on Wednesday was the smallest crowd to ever watch an Indiana men's basketball game at Assembly Hall. The previous low of 7,249 was set on Jan. 3, 1999 against Illinois. 
"Everyone talked about how hard it was for teams to get up for the NIT," Wright said. "We fell right into that trend." 
The win was extra special for Vanderbilt coach Kevin Stallings, who played basketball at Purdue University from 1980-82 and was an assistant coach for the Boilermakers under Gene Keady from 1983­

88. As Purdue player and coach, Stallings compiled a 12-7 record against Indiana. 
"It's not often that you get to come here as an opposing team and experience victory," Stallings said. "This was a spe­cial night for our players." 
The Commodores quickly took the Indiana crowd out of the game by shooting 48 percent from the field in the first half and opening a 31-26 halftime lead. 
Vanderbilt used a 7-0 run to extend its lead to 40-30 early in the second half before Indiana cut the defjcit to 53-46 with 
6:21 left after consecutive dunks by Wright and Roderick Wilmont. 
San Francisco 69, Denver 67 
Tyrone Riley made a layin with 1.3 seconds left and San Francisco won its first postsea­son game in 26 years, beating Denver in the opening round of the NIT on Wednesday night. 
John Cox scored 15 of his 27 points in the final 11:11, rally­ing the Dons from a 49-44 deficit. Cox -Kobe Bryant's first cousin -scored three straight baskets to get the Dons back in it. His 3-pointer with 
7:17 remaining tied the game at 55. 
After Denver's Erik Benzel hit a 3 to make it 65-64 with 1:19 left, Cox converted two free throws at 43 seconds. 
Rodney Billups, the younger brother of Detroit Pistons star Chauncey Billups, t.hen hit a 3 from the top of the arc with 29 seconds left. USF set up a final play with 20.9 to go, but Cox called timeout near midcourt with 7 seconds on the clock under defensive pressure by Andrew Carpenter. 
Then Hazel drove into the paint and made a pretty pass to Riley for the winning basket. Carpenter received a baseball pass, but missed a short base­line jumper at the buzzer. 
Riley finished with 16 points and six rebounds for USF (17­13), which advances to play Saturday against the winner of Cal State Fullerton-Oregon State. 
USF won a postseason game for the first time since beating Brigham Young University 86­63 in the first round of the NCAA tournament, only two years after Cox's father, Chubby, helped the top-ranked Dons go 29-2 and reach the NCAA tour­nament. 
Yemi Nicholson had 15 points for Denver (20-11), but the 6­foot-10 center Nicholson didn't touch the ball on offense until scoring his first points at the 
13:17 mark of the first half. 
Antonio Porch added 14 points for the Pioneers. but had six turnovers. 
Cox, 25th in the nation in scoring at 19.9 points per game, wore jersey No. 5 instead of his usual 33 to honor injured team­mate Jason Gaines, out for the season with a torn ligament. 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------.. 
Thursday, March 17, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
NCAAs are homecoming for Alford 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Steve Alford walked onto the basket­ball court at the HCA Dome on Wednesday amid a l'lood of memories. 
Alford was an All-American at Indiana, and two victories on this same eourt started a six­game run to the NCAA champi­onship for Alford and the Hoosiers in 1987. Thursday's first-round game against Cincinnati will be his lirst at the Dome as the Iowa coach. 
"Those thoughts and memo­ries eame back, of playing Fairlield and playing Auburn in front of gnmt crowds here," he said after the llawkeyes' prac­tice. 
"Playing two games in our home !state I ... I thought really kind of got us going momen­tum-wise," he said. "So you just start thinking about all the little different things. Obviously, very special memori(~S then, and those arc memories that haven't faded any now." 
Eighteen years later, Alford's Hawkeyes are hoping to pro­duce some memories of their own. But Iowa (21-11), the No. 10 seed in the Austin Regional. lost its top player six weeks ago, had a losing record in the Big Ten and sneaked into the NCAA with an at-large bid by winning five of its last six games. 
None of the Iowa players has ever been in the NCAA tourna­ment before now. 
"The one thing we don't have is experience," Alford said. "I hope that doesn't have a huge impact. but it may early in the game. We've started pretty well all year, but anytime you're in a one-and-done tournament. the start is pretty crucial." 
No. 23-ranked Cincinnati (24­7), the No. 7 seed in the region­al, lied for second in the Conference USA regular season and earned its 14th straight NCAA appearance, a school record. 
But the Bearcats' edge in tourney experience is irrele­vant, coach Bob Huggins said. 
"You go out and play," he said. "You have to do the things you do well and hopefully take away some things they do well. We've watched a lot of tape of his (Iowa) team. They do a great job in the half-court offense and run a couple things we haven't guarded." 
Iowa lost five of its first six games after leading scorer Pierre Pierce was kicked off the team in February. 
Pierce was charged with two counts of burglary, assault with intent to commit sexual assault against an ex-girlfriend and criminal mischief. He has plead­ed innocent. 
Once the Hawkeyes adjusted to playing without Pierce, they won five in a row before a loss to Wisconsin on a last-second 3­pointer in the semifinals of the Big Ten tournament. 

Using a three-guard lineup, the Hawkeyes hope to offset a Cincinnati defense that has lim­ited opponents to 37 percent shooting. 
"It's going to be difficult to match up with them," said sophomore Adam Haluska, who has averaged 17 points over the past dozen games without Pierce in the lineup. 'The key is to keep fighting and keep their runs to a minimum." 
Forward Greg Brunner is averaging 14.5 points and 8. 3 rebounds, and 6-11 center Erek Hansen is averaging just 5 points but almost three blocks per game. 
"Brunner creates shots, not only for himself but for his teammates," Huggins said. "It's hard to lose your best player and change gears, but they have made the adjustments." 
Cincinnati has five double-lig­ures scorers, led by Jason Maxiell at 15.3 points a game and Eric Hicks at 13.9. 
DANCE TO THE WICKEDEST INDIAN BHANGRA BEATS AND ENJOY MOUTH WATEIUNG INDIAN FOOD II! 
SATURDAY, MARCH 19 
10PM-2AM 
lAFORTUNE BALLROOM S3 ADMISSION; FREE FOR MEMBERS 




Fly Cheaper 
summer travel. study abroad & more 
Sample roundbip Student Airfares from South Bend to: 
New Orleans $168 Toronto $141 New York $168 London $511 Las Vegas $233 Rio de Janeiro $672 Seattle $233 Madrid $732 
VIsit StudentUnlverse.com for cheap student airfares on major airlines to 1,000 destinations across the US and around the world. 
NFL 
James signs 1-year deal with Colts 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS The Indianapolis Colts' career rushing leader is staying put -for now. 
Former two-time NFL rush­ing champion Edgerrin .lames signed a one-year franchise offer Wednesday that will pay him a little more than $8 mil­lion this year. 
But that won't slow James' efforts to get a long-term deal or seek a trade. 
"We think by making the move, it will help facilitate either a long-term deal or enhance our chances of work­ing out a trade," said Drew Hosenhaus, .lames' agent. "We've always stated we are not interested in playing out a one-year deal." 
The move comes one wfwk after team president Bill Polian told Hosenhaus that thP Colts could not afford to sign James to a long-term contract. 
Bosenhaus has been trying to work out a trade ever since, a deal Polian told Bosenhaus would not require a f'irst­round draft pick in (~xehange for tlH~ three-time Pro Bowlt~r. 
The Colts now an' prohibited from reaching a long-term agr<~enwnt with .lamPs bnfor(' mid-July, or tlwy would lose tlw franchise tag for tlw length of the contract. 
"We arn going to try and work something out, prnfer­ably with tlw Colts and if not, with another l<'am." HosPnhaus said. "It does not preclude tlw Colts from trad­ing him and working out a long-term deal with anotlwr team." 
The deal means Indianapolis eould k<~<~Jl its triplets ­.lames, quarterback I'Pyton Manning and wid«' rPcPiVPr Marvin !Iarrison -intart for a seventh straight Y«'<ll'. Together. tlwy hav<~ IPd Indianapolis to three division titles and l'ive playoff appear­ances in six years. The only year tho Colts missed the play­of'fs was 200 I. wlwn James miss<~d the last 10 games. 
James, 2(J, is coming ofT his best season since tearing a lig­ament in his left kr11w in October 200 I. James rusiH•d for 1,548 yards and nine touchdowns. caught 51 passes for 483 yards and had a eareer-high avorage of 4.6 yards per carry last season. 
If  James  is  tradnd.  
Indianapolis could  rnovP  to  
Plan B.  

In February, backup Dominic Hhodes signed a two-year deal that will pay him $1.3 million in base salary in 2005 and 2006. Hhodes rushed for 1, I 04 yards -an NFL rncord for undrafted rookies -whnn lw replaced James in 2001. but since then only has seen spot duty because of shoulder and knee injuries. 
Hhodes' agent has said that he is looking for a starting job next season, and that could still come in Indianapolis. 
James has ruslwd for 7. 7 20 yards and 51 touchdowns. and caught 312 passes l'or 2,502 yards in six seasons. lie has topped 2,000 yards from scrimmage in a season three times. 

AROUND THE NATION 
Thursday, March 17, 2005 CoMPILED FROM T!I£ Qp,srRVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 26 
MLB
NCAA Womeg'.l)l~l$19n I , -· Tennis Rallkirigs 
team 
1 Stanford 2 Georgia 3 Northwestern 4 KentuckY 5 Vanderbilt 6 William and Mary 7 Duke 8 Southern Cal 9 North Carolina 10 Miami (Fl) 11 Harvard 12 UCLA 13 Texas 
·· 14 Washington 15 Florida 16 Georgia IT 17 Baylor 18 California 19 Clemson io Tulane 21 TCU 22 BYU 23 Tennessee 24 south carolina 25 NOTREDAME 
NCAA Men's Division I Tennis Rankings 
1 2 
3 4 5 
6 
7 8 9 10 11 12 

Associated Press the House Government modify the new policy to without immunity, Canseco
13 

Reform committee, which comply with at least what would invoke his Fifth
14 

NEW YORK -Mark also revealed that base­was announced by MLB in Amendment right to refuse15 
McGwire plans to comply ball's drug-testing agree­January. To do anything to answer questions.
16 

with a subpoena and ment contains a provision less than that would con­Boston pitcher Curt
17 WasldniJ,toi 

18 attend Thursday's con­that testing would be "sus­stitute a violation of the Schilling said he will .com­gressional hearing into pended immediately" if the public's trust. a blow to ply with the subpoena. and19 steroid use in baseball, government conducts an the integrity of Major Chicago White Sox trainer
20 

The Associated Press has independent investigation League Baseball, and an Herm Schneider said that
21.. 

learned. into drug use in baseball. invitation to further scruti­Frank Thomas left Tucson, 
22. 

McGwire's decision, Sen. John McCain, who ny of the league's steroid Ariz .. on Tuesday. would
23 

24 revealed Wednesday by a has pushed for tougher policy." stop at his home in Las 
25 Kentucky representative of the for­rules, said the details of Canseco's lawyer said Vegas. then would travel mer Oakland and St. Louis baseball's proposed new the former AL MVP will to Washington. Sammyslugger who spoke on con­agreement angered him. n·ot answer questions that Sosa and Rafael Palmciro dition of anonymity, made "I can reach no conclu­would incriminate him. also were headed to it likely all six subpoenaed sion but that the league "No witnesses have been Washington, Baltimore 
players would attend the and the players' union or will be granted immuni­Orioles vice president Mike session on Capitol Hill. have misrepresented to me ty," David Marin, a Flanagan said. 
Less than 24 hours and to the American pub­spokesman for committee New York Yankees slug­before the start of the lic the substance of MLB 's chairman Rep. Tom Davis, ger Jason Giambi, who highly anticipated hearing, new steroid policy," he said in an e-mail to the AP. also was subpoenaed last Jose Canseco's request for said. "I expect the league Canseco's lawyer. Robert week. was excused immunity was denied by and the players' union to Saunooke has said that Tuesday from testifying. 



around the dial 
NBA 
LA Lakers at Miami, 8 p.m., TNT Sacramento at Golden State, 10:30 p.m., TNT 
NCAA TOURNAMENT Pittsburgh vs Pacific, 12:40 p.m., CBS Montana vs Washington, 3:00p.m., CBS Utah State vs Arizona, 7:20p.m., CBS Fairleigh Dickinson vs Illinois, 9:30 p.m., CBS 
IN BRIEF 
Pace re-signs with Rams 
ST. LOUIS -For the first time in four seasons, Orlando Pace will be playing with more than a one-year contract. 
The St. Louis Rams and the six­time Pro Bowl offensive tackle beat a looming deadline on Wednesday, agreeing on a seven-year, $52.9 mil­lion deal. 
"We are excited that the premier left tackle in the National Football League will be starting for the Rams for the next seven years," said Jay Zygmunt, the team's president of football operations. "Orlando has been an integral part of one of the most prolific offenses in NFL history." 
The team said it would hold a news conference on Thursday to discuss the deal, which will ensure an on­time arrival in training camp for Pace. The last two seasons Pace held out throughout training camp and then played his way into shape. 
TPace was the first overall pick in the 1997 draft, making him the ·first lineman to go that high in 30 years. 

Pace started all 18 regular-season and playoff games last year at left tackle. NorweJ!ian wins Iditarod for seconotime 
NOME, Alaska -Norway's Robert Sorlie won the Iditarod on Wednesday, overcoming insomnia and a dwindling dog team for his sec­ond victory in only three tries. 
Sorlie, a 4 7 -year-old firefighter. crossed under the arch that serves as a finish line in Nome at 8:39 a.m.. winning the 1,100-mile race across Alaska in nine days, 18 hours, 39 minutes and 31 seconds. 
Sorlie finished the race with eight dogs -half the number he started the race with, but the same number that took him to victory two years ago. 
Sorlie is a three-time champion of Norway's premier long-distance sled dog race, the 600-mile 
Finnmarkslopet.lions sign former Colts 
guard DeMulling 
ALLEN PARK, Mich. -The Detroit Lions took care of one of their press­ing off-season needs Wednesday when team officials and offensive guard Rick DeMulling agreed to con­tract terms. 
The team did not release the details of the deal 
DeMulling, who started 41 games for the Indianapolis Colts during the previous three seasons. will be plugged into the lineup as a starter along with guard Damien Woody, tackle Jeff Backus and center Dominic Raiola. 
Indianapolis drafted the 6-foot-4. 304-pound DeMulling in the seventh round of the 2001 draft. 
The Baltimore Ravens pursued DeMulling, but decided he was too expensive. DeMulling also visited the Buffalo Bills after the Colts released him this month to help clear salary­
Thursday, March 17, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 27 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish continue arduous stretch against Illini 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Spom Writ,·r 
CompPting against top-tier tnams in tlw country hasn't bnPn a problnm for LhP Irish this st•ason. With ynt another nalionally ran knd fO!~ k n ork­
ing  on  Notrn  Damn's  door  
todav.  thP  Irish  will  have  
anotiJPr shot to  upsPt  a  top-5  
tnam.  

No. If, NotrP l>anw (13-4) will facn a stnrn challt~ngn from No.3 Illinois (10-i) today in dual-match play, the third top-5 team that Notre llanw has faced this season. Th1~ Irish had previously droppnd two matches to No. 4 J>ukn and No. 2 Virginia. the lattnr in a dose 4-3 dncision. 
"It'll bt~ intl~resting because w1~'vn alrnady played Virginia and Dukn," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Illinois, tradi­tionally, has a lot or big guys with hugn servns and very aggn~ss ive pi ay. Indoors, that's most eiTeetive. So they'll prnsnnt a pretty formidable challPngn." 
Tlw lllini will come into this match with only a single loss, a defeat at tht~ hands of No. 1 Baylor in thn snmilinals of the National Indoors competition. 
"The only match thr.y've lost is to Baylor. who's the defend­ing NCAA Champions, 4-3 in the National Indoors semifi­nals," Bayliss said. "So they'rr. arguably the No. 2 team, even tough Virginia reached the finals of tlw National Indoors and also lost to Baylor." 
Although Illinois has suf­rcn~d from injury problems as of JatP, tlwy should prest~nt a lwalthy and dangerous lineup against the Irish. Senior Chris Martin. returning from a s t r ~~ s s r r act ll r (1 in h is r() 0 t. should play his l'irst match or the year. 
Illinois boasts some impres­sive individual talent in their lineup. The Illini's Kevin Anderson. a first-semester freshman. has lost only one match this year and is cur­rently ranked No. 14 in the nation. Junior Hyler Delleart is ranked No. 1 in the country. 
"We're aware of what they'll bring to the court -big serves and aggressive play( Bayliss said. "They have eight or nine guys who can really take it to you. We have to counter that by being really solid, and also emphasizing a higher level or percentage play than anything we're played to date to make this a 



Scholastic 

is taking applications for 

Business Manager 
Commission paid for advertising 



e-mail Scholast@nd.edu 
-~---~-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~___) 
Write Sports. CaiJ1..4543. 
competitive match." 
But don't count the Irish out of' this one. Tho team has transitioned well to outdoor play, winning three or their last !'our matches outdoors and seven of the last nine 
o v n r a II . T h e y h a v ~~ p la y~~ d sonw nail bitc~rs in l'ivn of' the last six matches, winning 4-3 dncisions in three or thosn competitions. 
While competing at the Blue-Gray National Tennis Classic in Montgomr.ry, Ala., over spring bn~ak, the Irish posted two victories over ranked opponents -No. 27 Hice and No. 68 William & Mary. 
"The strongest positions for us down south [in Alabama]. wr.re Nos. 2, 3 and 4 ­Str.phen Bass, Barry King and Sheova Parbhu." Bayliss said. "Eric Langenkamp stepped in and won a big match l'or us against Boise State· when we really needed it, proving our team depth." 
Playing Illinois will present one more challenge l'or a Notre Dame squad used to facing some of the best teams in the country. Notre Dame holds a 20-16 lr.ad in the all­time series history between the two teams. but Illinois has 


won nine of the last 11 match­es. 
"I think it's pretty easy to get a team to play up," Bayliss said. "When you're playing a higher ranked opponent, you feel less pressure. I don't think we'll have a hard time getting our guys ready to play Illinois. Whether we'll play at their level, I don't know. but we'll be ready to play." 
The Irish will get their shot at reversing the trend against the llliiri later today. The match is scheduled to play indoors at 4:00 p.m. in the Eck Tennis pavilion, due to expected inclement weather. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottamu@nd.edu 
MLB 

Mets' Trachsel to undergo surgery 
News is positive for the Cubs, as Wood works from mound 
Associated Press 
Spring training isn't even over yet and the New York Mets already have a major hole in their starting rotation. 
No. 5 pitcher Steve Trachsel. always counted on to make his starts and chew up innings, will have surgery to repair a herni­ated disk in his back and is like­ly to miss a major portion of the season. 
"This is not what I expected when I left last week to go to New York l'or X-rays." Trachsel 
• said in a statement Wednesday. "I thought I would get a shot and be back. 
"There is no doubt in my mind 

I'll be pitching again before the end of the season." Who will take his place is now the big question. 
Players who have this type of operation normally miss about three months, said Mets general manager Omar Minaya, who wouldn't speculate on how long Trachsel will be out. New York will first look internally to fill Trachsel's spot. 
"Hopefully we get him back soon," No. 1 starter Pedro Martinez said. 
Trachsel. 34, went 12-13 with a 4.00 EHA last season. He has made at least 28 starts each of the last 10 years. 
Hight handers Matt Ginter. Jae Seo. and Aaron Heilman would be the most likely to replace Trachsel as the fil'th starter in the rotation behind Martinez, Tom Glavine, Kris Benson an·d Victor Zambrano. 

RecSports has student employn1ent openings for this Summer and the 2005-2006 acadetnic year. 
Become a part of the RecSports Family and share in the joy of helping others attain their recreational goals. 
Applications are available on line(!!:' rccsports.nd.edu or by visiting the RSRC. First consideration \Viii be given to those applying by IV1arch 23. Questions call I 6100 
"The opportunity is then~ for 
a few guys," Mets manager 
Willie Handolph said. "We'll see 
who takes the bull by the 
horns." 
The news was somewhat bet­
ter for the Chicago Cubs' rota­
tion. 
Injured starters Kerry Wood 
and Mark Prior showed some 
progress after testing their 
arms Wednesday. 
Wood. who has bursitis in the 
shoulder and inflammation near 
the rotator cuff. worked from 
the mound and threw about 30 
pitches, pitching coach Larry 
Hothschild said. 
Prior, who has inllammation 
in his elbow and irritation to the 
ulnar nerve, played catch l'rom 
about 80 feet for live minutes. 
Wood lr.ft his spring training 
start March 9 aftr.r the second 
inning because of tightness in 
his right shoulder. lie had an 
MHI exam in Arizona, then llew 
back to Chicago. 
Prior made his Cactus l.eague debut March I 0 and pitched three innings against the Seattle Mariners without problems. llowever, the Cubs revealed Monday that Prior felt discom­. fort a short time after that ganw 
while doing routine exercises. 
Prior also had an MHI exam 
and visited elbow specialist Dr. 
Lewis Yocum. 
"It's a little slowPr process 
then• because you'w got to gPt 
that inrlammation out." 
Hothschild said. "ThPn··s still a 
litt!P discomfort thPn'. It's con­
siderably lwttPr. which is basi­
cally what WP l'XfWelPd." 
Hothsrhild said hP would S(H' 
how t~ar h pi tc lw r fpp Is 
Thursday wlwn tlwy arrivP at 
camp lwfon• deciding tht• nPxl 
stPp. 
"Thpy're both doing fine." 
Hothschild said. "Tlwy just want 
to gPt going and g!'l bark in 
ganws 

page 28 Thursday, March 17, 2005
The Observer + SPORTS 
WOMEN'S SWIMMING 
Irish hope to make mark atNCAAs 
By MIKE TENNANT Sporrs Wri rer 
Two Irish swimmers and one diver will try to make waves this weekend at the NCAA· Championships in West Lafayette, Ind. 
Junior Christel Bouvron is mak­ing her first trip to the champi­onships, while Katie Carroll and Meghan Perry-Eaton are both on return trips. Head coach Bailey Weathers s1~es the previous expe­rience as a definite advantage. 
"1 think they're more relaxed and have a better feel for how things will go," Weathers said. 
Perry-Eaton, a fifth-year senior and All-American diver, is mak­ing her third straight appearance in the championships. She quali­fied last week by taking third in the Zone C Championships ofT the 1-meter board, also at Purdue. 
Last year, Perry Eaton fmished third off the lower board, only 
3.30 poinl<> behind the champion. She has won five Big East cham­pionships in her time at Notre Dame and was named the con­ference's Most Outstanding Diver each of the last three years. 
Perry-Eaton won 19 of 20 com­petitions this season going into the Zone C meet and was unde­feated ofT the 3-meter board. She currently holds all of the Notre Dame and Holfs Aquatic Center records. 
Katie Carroll is returning for the second time in her two-year career after posting an automati­cally-qualif)dng time in the 400­yard individual medley, her sec­ond A cut in as many years. She is seeded 19th in the event. 
The sophomore also qualified in the 200-IM and the 200-butter­fly, and is seeded 26th and 45th in those events respectively. 
Carroll capped off a spectacular season for the Irish with six victo­ries in the Big East Championships. She has regis­tered 10 first place finishes in individual events and 12 in relays. 
Bouvron, a two-time Olympian for her native Singapore, will be swimming both the 100-and 200-butterfly, and is seeded 40th and 31st respectively. 
The junior won two individual Big East titles last month, as well as one relay. She is also the Singapore National Recordholder in the 400-meter freestyle. 
Carroll and Perry-Eaton will look to get the Irish off on the right foot Thursday morning, with preliminary action starting at 11 a.m. Carroll will be swim­ming the 200-IM while Perry­Eaton will dive off the 1-meter board. 
Friday will see Bouvron make her NCAA Championship debut as the 1 00-fly will take place. Carroll and Perry-Eaton will both also compete Friday, the former in the 400-lM, the latter off the 3­meter board. 
Saturday, the Irish will wrap up championship action as Bouvron and Carroll swim in the 200-fly. 
This will mark the eighth time in the last nine years that the Irish have had three or more par­ticipants in the NCAA Championships. Since 1979, 21 different Notre Dame swimmers have earned All-American hon­ors with top-16 fmishes. 
Contact Mike Tennant at mtennant@nd.edu 
Staff 
continued from page 32 
teams coach, was the recruit­ing coordinator at the University of Central Florida. 
David Cutcliffe, assistant head coach and quarterbacks coach, Rick Minter, defensive coordinator and linebackers coach and Bill Lewis, assis­tant head coach and defensive backs coach were all head coaches at some point of their respective careers. Cutcliffe coached at the University of Mississippi, Minter at Cincinnati and Lewis at Georgia Tech. 
"I hired a very well-rounded group when it came to recruiting," Weis said of his experienced group of coaches. 
Weis also said he has a dif­ferent approach when it comes to recruiting that spans the entire country. He assigned each coach different areas of the country. So, coaches that were recruiting instead of coaches recruiting in their area-not the coach­by position, they are recruit­es that were responsible for ing by areas. their position. Weis said 

Each coach on staff has two coaches in a player's area are areas, Weis said -a primary the ones who will develop the area and a secondary area. relationships with the The primary area is one that recruits. is within driving distance, "He's going to be the guy 
while  the  sec- who's coming to  
ondary is a flight away. The play­ "I hired a very  your school," Weis said of the  
ers in the pri­mary areas are able to take unofficial visits,  well-rounded group when it came to recruiting."  area coach. "He's going to be looking for your transcripts,  
while  those  in  he's going to be  
the secondary areas primarily take official vis­ Charlie Wels Irish coach  looking to gath­er tape." And in the  
its,  due  to  the  recruiting  

travel expenses, Weis said. process, Weis said he will go 
Weis said he has the whole where he is needed to get the country covered, and declined recruits he and his staff want. to say which coach was "I obviously have the coun­assigned to which areas. He try," he said. "They'll tell me, did say, however, that when 'This is where we've got to recruits came for junior day go,' and that's where we've Feb. 27, the 80 high school got to go." players split up with the However, for now, Weis said 
his assistants are doing the majority of the recruiting work, much of which has already started. 
"We're spending a lot of hours together." Weis said of he and his staff. 
Although it is early to be thinking about next year's signing day in early February. Weis said his assistants are well underway in their efforts, and that they are setting things up for him to finalize. 
"These other coaches are doing all the ground work," Weis said. "What they're try­ing to do is set it up for you so that you can be the so-called figurehead, or closer. Hight now it might be figurehead. but later on. when it gets to December and January nPxt year. you'rp the closPr. · . "So, a guy com<~s in. it's likP dosing a sale. I'd like> to think I have closer capabilities." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


FREEBIES !SUBS & CLUBS ONLVI Onion, lettuce. alfalfa sprouts. tomato. mayo. sliced cucumber. Dijon mustard. oil &vinegar. and oregano. 

one o our omema e rene uns then smothered with onions. mayo, lettuce. tomato, & our homemade Italian dressing. 
#16 CLUB LULU',., 
Fresh sliced turkey breast. bacon. lettuce. tomato, & mayo. (JJ's original turkey & bacon club) 
I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK~ 
SOUTH BEND 54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 57 4.277.8500 ''VOUR MOM WANT$ VOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOliN'S!" @ 
®2005 JIMMY JOHN'S FRANCHISE INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. We Reserve The Right To Make Any Menu Changes. 
Thursday, March 17, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 29 


TODAY!!! MARCH 17TH 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
NOON 1TIL MIDNIGHT 

AII-Day Games Watch 16 Tournament Games "HOOSIERS" Spm -7pm FREE Pizza & Popcorn NCAA 2K5 Tournament WIN PRIZES 
DROP IN OR HANG OUT ALL DAY 
Presented by the Student Activities Office. Questions? 631-7308. 
''KISS ME, 
~1t's MarchMadRIJSS!" 
Irish 
continued from page 32 
first four weekends of the sea­son," coach Paul Mainieri said. "We had warm weather. Now, we're going to have to deal with some climate conditions, and the guys just are going to have to be really mentally tough to handle those things. I bPlievc that they will." 
Sophomore right-hander Jeff Manship will start for the Irish against the Huskies. 
On Friday, the Irish will send lefty Tom Thornton to the mound to take on the Evansville Purple Aces (16-5) at 7 p.m. 
Capping the three game stint, the Irish meet the South Dakota State Jackrabbits (2-12) at 1 
p.m. Saturday. Right-hander Jeff Samardzija will get the nod for Notre Dame. 
The Huskies own a deceiving 3-7 record. They were swept in a three-game series by previous­ly No. 22 ranked Texas Tech at Lubbock, Tex. They also suffered a couple of close losses against Southern Illinois and Louisville, including a 10-inning 5-4 set­back against the Salukis and a blown 7-4 ninth-inning lead against the Cardinals. In the Louisville loss, the Huskies com­mitted six costly errors -two in the bottom of the ninth to keep afloat the Cardinal rally. 

"Northern Illinois has played well. They've played some tough games," Mainieri said. 
The Purple Aces have lived up to preseason hype under fourth­year head coach Dave Schrage. They were picked to finish fourth in the Missouri Valley Conference, and they head into their own tourney with a 16-5 record, a 5-4 victory over then 19th ranked Washington and a close loss to eighth-ranked Texas A&M -a team that pounded the Irish 13-5. 
A familiar face to the Irish skipper. Schrage coached as Mainieri's assistant at St. Thomas University in Miami, Fla., in the mid 1980s. Catcher Dustin Knight leads the Aces with a .403 batting average. 
"I know he's an excellent coach. They're doing really well, and they'll be really tough at home," Mainieri said. 
South Dakota State brings a 2­12 mark into the tournament in their first year as a Division I program. A loaded schedule with Kansas, Nebraska and Creighton has contributed to the Jackrabbits' woes. The Jacks have dropped six straight con­tests -all in the state of Nebraska. In those 54 innings, they were outscored 70-12 by Nebraska and Creighton com­bined. Mainieri is still wary of the Jacks. 
"If you look at South Dakota State, their record's not very good, but they've played a suici­...... dal schedule, really," he said. 
Notre Dame will faC!~ each of their next three opponents' pitching aces. 
The Irish look to build a win­ning streak and turn their slow start to the season around after winning two out of their last three games. including a 12-11 victory over Southwest Missouri State in the consolation linal of the Irish Baseball Classic. 
After being named to the all­tournament team at the Classic, centerfielder Alex Nettey, left­fielder Steve Andres and third baseman Hoss Brezovsky lead the Irish into the Aces' tourna­ment. 
Tony Langford -in his first career start at doubleheader ­sparked the Irish against SMS with a three HBI day at the plate. Mainieri would like to continue to work Langford into the lineup. 
Manship is still building up strength after returning from elbow surgery. He was limited to one-inning outings last weekend and will likely have a higher pitch count this week. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
NCAA 
continued from page 32 
Ohio State are also each sending 11 competitors. 
The Irish will be sending a team that is rich in both talent and NCAA experience. Of the 11 com­petitors, eight have fenced in the NCAAs before, and they share a combined 15 All-America awards. 
Kryczalo, who is a three-time defending champion, will lead the Irish contingent this weekend, as she attempts to join an elite group of college athletes with four indi­vidual titles in the same sport. 

Two other former champions will join her -senior epeeist Kerry Walton won in 2002 and sophomore sabre Valerie Providenza took the title last year. 
Providenza's biggest thorn to defending her crown may be her own teammate, as freshman Marie! Zagunis, the 2004 Olympic gold medalist. will attempt to begin her own streak of victories. 
The men's team will be led by senior epeeist Michal Sobicraj, who is still looking for his nrst title after finishing in the top I 0 every season, including a second­place finish in his sophomore year. 
With all their individual accom­plishments and ambitions, the Irish realize that success will come as a group. 
"It takes teamwork. We all have to fence well. but we can fence well," Kryczalo said. 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
Lafayette Square Townhomes 
Newly remodeled 4 and 5-Bedroom Townhomes for 2005-06 
Only $210 Per Student! 
1 
• 
Student" 
-

4& 5Private bedrooms-SPLIT the rent! 3floors ofliving space +patio area Central air I cable hook-up 
('''"'"""'"""'"''''"'''''''"'"'-'"''"'"'''"'''''"'""''-....._..., Stove, fridge, dishwasher 
:i Vtsit our website at ;! Washer I Dryer in EACH unit i www.REMCl.com Close to campus ADT monitoring systems 24-hour emergency maintenance 
Call for a showing today! 
574-234-9923 
There are also afew 2-bedroom ap~trtments available at Notre Dame Apartments for just $500-$600/month. 
page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, March 17, 2005 
broke what looked to be a Gorynski's powerful right tried to get inside the taller one minute and eight seconds deadlock with a third-round hand, and the judges ruled Ward, get some punches in, into the second round.
Bouts 

flurry. unanimously in favor of the and get his hands up to Griffin will take on former continued from page 32 155 pounds Polish Pistol defend his face. The strategy captain William Zizic in the 
The super welterweight 165 pounds seemed to be working as finals. Zizic defeated Chris opponent, senior Michael "A semifinals featured some Mark "Rambo" Desplinter Ward received an eight count Cavanaugh on a unanimous Reading from the Book of the close fights. outlasted Patrick "No from the referee in each of decision in a very well fought Prophet" Feduska. Mike Panzica, an off-campus Tomorrow" McMorrow in the the first two rounds, but the match. 140 pounds senior from Ohio, defeated opening match of the 165-momentum shifted in the Zizic's effective combination 
In a showdown between a off-campus MBA student pound weight class. third and the judges ruled for of alternating hooks to the couple of Pennsylvanians, jun­Brian Weldon in a split deci­McMorrow, remaining true to Ward. body and head neutralized ior Mike McCann Pittsburgh sion. his nickname, was not short 180 pounds Cavanaugh's reach advantage. took the bout in a unanimous Panzica was able to secure a on intensity and effort but In the Light Heavyweight The first and third rounds decision over Erie's Andrew victory despite suffering a could not handle the superior division, Jim Christoforetti were extremely close. but McGill. McGill seemed to come bloody nose from one of his mechanics or reach advantage beat Jeff Golen on a unani­Zizic dominated the second, alive in the final round, but it opponent's big head shots. of the top-seeded Desplinter. mous decision. Christoforetti knocking Cavanaugh down proved to be too little too late Panzica will face Galen Desplinter moves on to face used a combination of quick · with a left jab to the face. against McCann's unrelenting "Q.D.E.P." Loughrey for the Brian "Honey Boy" Nicholson left jabs and strong right Heavyweight effort. McGill earned the right 155-pound championship. in Saturday's final room. hooks to keep Golen off bal­The first semifinal match in to face Michael "My Real Loughrey, a Dillon Hall sen­Nicholson won in a split deci­ance for most of the fight. the heavyweight division did Name is Meri" Hennig in the ior, persevered in what looked sion over Colin Kerrigan. Golen responded with a not last very long. Matt finals. to be the closest of the non­Kerrigan struggled against strong third round, but it was Hasbrook, a former football 
Hennig, a sophomore from split decisions against Chris Nicholson's long left jabs and not enough to take down the walk-on, set the tone immedi­O'Neill, defeated Dillon junior Calderone. right hooks. top seed. ately with a barrage of crush­Will "The Thrill" Bezouska. Both fighters were aggres­170 pounds Christoforetti will meet ing right hooks. Bezouska did not back down sive and traded fierce jabs The fight between Justin Doug "Six Months in the The taller, thinner John in the face of Hennig's aggres­and body shots for most of the "The Fleece" Alanis and Brad Hos"pital or Sudden Death" "You Can't Beat Around This" sive style, but judges unani­fight, which the judges award­"Ba Ba Black Sheep" Bartels in Saturday's champi­Bush had no answer for mously voted in favor of his ed unanimously to Loughrey. Wanchulak looked at times onship round. Hasbrook's power. The refer­opponent. 160 pounds like a wrestling match with Bartels dominated Dana ee called the fight after just 150 pounds In the first semi-final match some punches sprinkled in. Collins from the opening bell, one minute and six seconds 
The welterweight division of the 160-pound weight divi­Wanchulak, an extremely knocking him to the canvas in had elapsed. semifinal boasted some of the sion, top-seeded Mark "Turn aggressive southpaw, tireless­the fight's first minute. 22 Hasbrook's opponent in m_ore closely contested fights the Other Cheek" Basola ly went after Alanis, leading seconds into the second Saturday's championship will of the evening. Nate "The showed little mercy for his to numerous tie-ups. round, Bartels downed Collins be Nathan Schroeder. Banzai Kitten" Lohmeyer, an opponent Adam "Steel Ghost" In the third round, however, once again, forcing the refer­Schroeder defeated Kevin off-campus senior, defeated Burns. Alanis knocked down his more ee to call the fight. Phipps in the final round of' Keough sophomore Clayton Basola withstood a third unorthodox opponent to 200 pounds the final match of the night. "The Texas Tickler" Lougee in round rally from Burns to ensure a unanimous decision. Johnny "Blaze" Griffin The first two rounds were a unanimous decision. secure a unanimously decided Alanis will be pitted against picked up right where he left fought evenly. 
The fight was more even victory. Dan "Pound Town" Ward in off. The artist formerly known · Schroeder dominated the than it may appear on paper, The junior will take on the finals. as "Smooth Chocolate," last third, however, as the worn­despite Lougee's second­Bobby "The Polish Pistol" Ward defeated Andrew year's champ, had a bye to his out Phipps struggled to count­round standing eight-count. Gorynski in the finals at the "Down Goes Frazier" Breslin semifinal match with Chris er his opponent's technique Lohmeyer will face off in the Joyce Center arena on in a competitive split decision "Young One" Adams. and quickness. final against off-campus sen­Saturday night. that many spectators seemed Griffin wasted no time get­ior Tim Hum!. Gorynski came out firing to question. ting reacquainted with the 
Hum! defeated Keough against Morrissey junior Breslin, whose first two ring. His dynamic combina­Contact Tom Barr at sophomore Jordan Runge in a Daniel Liem. Liem's quick feet matches were both called by tion of speed and strength led tbarr@nd.edu and Kevin close split decision. Hum! could not save him from the referee in the first round, to a bout-ending knockdown Brennan at kbrennan@nd.edu 
MUSICAL CHAIRS ... 





YOUR SPOT 



T 0 BE PART OF THE ACTION 
AVAILABLE POSITIONS:  
• Vice-Chair ofMarketing  • Director of Volunteers  
• Vice-Chair of Finance  • Director ofHospitality  
• Press Writer  • Director of Production  
• Treasurer  • Director of Fundraising  
• Graphic Designers  • SMC and HC Liaison  
Extended Deadline!  

New Due Date: Monday, March 21 
Applications and info available at www.nd.edu/-theshow 
Questions? e-mail: theshow@nd.edu 
Tum in at the Student Activities Office (315 LaFortune) labeled "Attention: The Show" 
INTERESTED IN CONCERTS, EVENT PLANNING, OR MUSIC? CONSIDER APPLYING! 
Thursday, March 17, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 31 
DILBERT 
HELLO, THIS IS ASOK 
THE INTERN. I AM 
TRYING TO SET UP A 
CONFERENCE CALL 
WITH YOUR BOSS 


PEANUTS 

YOU DIDN'T EAT ALL OF YOUR DINNER SO I 6UE 55 YOU DON'T GET ANY DESSERT.. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
.5

r-------------------------~ur-------------------------~
COULD YOU TELL ME ALL ONLY OF THE TIMES AUGUST HE IS AVAIL­SIXTH ABLE IN THE BETWEEN 
r1 
:::J >­
.c 
lii 
SO FAR,
e 
u 
SO GOOD.
.5 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
AND YOU CAN'T ROAST MARS~MALLOWS IN THE BACK YARD AT TWO O'CLOCK IN THE MORNING! 
HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words 
BOINS 

I I I ( J 
Ci!OOS Tribune Med1s Services, Inc 
7
ri;fl 
TANNIE 


WHEN THE KITCHEN 
HEL.P FE:LL BE:HIND,
I I I 


WNW 1urrble.com 
GLUBIN jI I [ 
Print ~rere= 
Saturday's I Jumbles: Answer 
THE c.HE:F WA?--­
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

rJ 
suggested by the above cartoon 

'I I I I I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) 

JULEP PATIO BUSHEL TOUCHY How she felt when her cobbler recipe won the blue ribbon-JUST "PEACHY" 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Company that 58 Bugs had a 64-page

1 Semiprecious 59 Primo 
"Code of Ethics" 
stone 62 Bad treatment 
34 13-stringed

5 Railroad fixtures 63 Fuzzy Wuzzy
Japanese zither 

9 Searches features 
35 Urban

transportation14 Declare 65 Leveled, in
36 "Get the lead 15 Progress slowly out!" London 
ss College16 Siouan 40 Home of the endower Cornell

language Atlantic 1O's 17 Characteristic Black Bears 67 _glass earner 43 Alfred of 18 Plantation of DOWN
2004's "Fiddler literature 
on the Roof" 
1 Sporty car,
45 Court conclusion

19 The opposition briefly 49 Bedevil
20 Some legal 2 Park in N.Y.C., tender 50 Stuff in a pit say 
23 One going back 51 Middle of the 3 "Act now!" and forth 11 th century 
4 Subject of some 25 Route abbr. 52 Cry at a light stilllifes show
26 Short walker? 5 "A Midsummer 
53 Goal of most Night's Dream"27 Time of games (and a queenanticipation 

hint to this 
6 Not exactly now28 Extreme action puzzle's theme) 

7 Like raw silk

32 "Peer Gynt" 57 Renaissance dancer ruler 
8 Whets 9 One who shall ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
remain nameless 10 "_Angel" (1933 comedy) 11 More round 12 Lift, so to speak 13 Answers with an attitude 21 _'acte 22 Oenophile's concern 23 Mt. Rushmore's place: Abbr. 24 Ligurian Sea feeder 29 Endured 


THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Puule by Elizabeth C. Gorski 
30 Breakfast or 42 In the wink dessert dish eye 
31 Family man 43 Girl's name from Greek for
35 Perk up 
"a bee" 37 Sushi bar order 
44 "Mourning38 Not duped by 
Becomes 39 "The Turtle" poet Electra" role 
41 No longer in 45 Johnny Carson, service notably 

WILLSHORTZ 
46 "Iliad" wife 47 Major departure 48 One working on 
a puff piece? 54 Pink potable 55 Firm honcho 56 South Seas 
starch source so Warriors' grp. 61 Sushi bar order 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST


HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES UORN ON TillS I>AY: Amy Dunne, 20; Erik Estru<.la, 5(>. Bcmar<.l9 Bet1olucci, 65; Jen·y Lewis, 79 Happy Birthday: Don't gel caught up in emotional matters when you shoul<.l be concentrating on bettering your future. Put on the chatm an<.l netwnrk your way up the lad<.ler of life. Don't get bogge<.l <.lown by the overall pictun:. Take each indivi<.lual issue an<.l <.leal with it one at a time. Your numbers are 5. 14. 16. 31. 35,40 ARIES (March 21-April 19): You may know what you are <.loing, hut someone around you is likely to be confuse<.l to<.lay. Help out so that you <.lon't experience any setbacks due to someone else's mistake. Friendship an<.l love ;1rc evident today. **** 
TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Secret talks or dealing with agencie~ or inslilullons regarding important personal mailers will arise. Take a short trip <.lown memory lane. People from your past will hdp if you ask. ••• GEMINI (May 21-.lunc 20): You will have to work har<.l to reap the rewar<.l~ Your personal life may be tense; if you aren't feeling up to par. avotd any ~1nd of confrontation. It's important for you to accept change. *** CANCER (.June 21-July 22): Take a look at all the !lungs going on in your Ilk and forget alxJut the things that aren't. f'nen<.lships wtll blossom, an<.lthe OPIXl11Untty to experience something <.liffcrent will enhance the way you view life, love and your future.*** LEO (.July 2:\-Au~. 22): You can make things happen to<.lay if you put the pressure on the people to get things done. You will be cha1ismattc an<.l persuastve. Partnerships look positive, an<.lthe chance to get somethtng slarte<.l shoul<.l atisc 
**** 

VIRGO (Aug. 2.l-Sept. 22): You shoul<.l spen<.l your time <.lotng 1h1ngs that will help you improve. Take a course or revamp your look. Try not to he too critical of others. The type of trouble you may encounter at a personal level will leave you feeling low. ** LIBRA (Sept. 2:\-0ct. 22): You may feel a real push-pull when it comes to what you want. Don't let <.lisappoimmems get to you. Know 1n your hean that you will succeed if you take the initiative and do things for yourself. A love connection or friendship is imminent. ***** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a look at your investments today and formulate deals or a contract. Home improvements will also tum out well. Push your own pursuits and <.levelop creative projects.*** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Partnerships can change your life today. Get together with someone who can complement you. A love relationship can blossom if you get out an<.l socialize. Someone you've known a long time will brighten your <.lay. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Working with others will bring you insight that should help you get one of your own ideas off the ground. Opportunity is knocking, and you <.lon't want to miss the chance to talk to someone about a partnership. *** AQlJARIUS (Jan. 20-l<'eb. 18): Reach for the stars an<.l don't he daunte<.l by any little obstacles that crop up. Take control, and everything will tum in your favor. Love is highlighte<.l so leave some spare time to socialize. ••u• PISCES Web. 19-March 20): You may be emotional today, especially if thtngs aren't going according to plan. Step back and <.lon't let anyone get to you. Change can be good. so don't shy away from it. •• Birthday Baby: You arc bright. capricious and always altracting plenty of atlention. You are creative on many <.liiTerent levels. You arc a player--compelltive, challenging and charismatic. 
Ettgeuin','i Wt'b Jiles: nstmaril'it't:.tvmj(Jr_fun, engeninlnsr.r·om j'or ('01!/irlemml r·onwltrmrmx 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________ ___ Address _____________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
-------------, 
THE 0HSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, March 17, 2005 
page 32 
BENGAL BOUTS 
One step closer 
Finals pairings set after exciting night of semifinals 
By THOMAS BARR and 
KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Wrircrs 
The punches flew and the sweat dripped from the faces of the 44 box­ers at the Joyce Center Wednesday, but at the end of the day only two fighters remained in each of the Bengal Bouts' 11 weight classes. 126 pounds 
Sophomore Peter Sarpong sported gold trunks and represented Toms Hiver. N.J. to start off the semi-final round with a decisive victory over David "Whistler" Rowinski. 
Sarpong knocked down his opponent at the end of the first round and dealt him a standing eight-count in the sec­ond to win the contest unanimously. 
Sarpong will face Daniel "Too Short" Gallegos in the featherweight finals this Saturday. Gallegos, a law student, won a unanimous decision against Morrissey freshman Steve Buchanan. 130 pounds 
Jon "Tejano Terror" Valenzuela defeated law student Dmytro "Fun Size" Aponte. The fight had to be stopped with 20 seconds left in the second round. 
Valenzuela will face Thomas "Quick Mic" Goldrick in the finals. Goldrick, a sophomore out of Chicago, won in a unanimous decision which included two standing eight-counts for his 
see BOUTS/page 30 


BASEBALL 
Irish travel to Evansville 
By TOM DORWART Sporrs Wrirer 
Time to whip out the extra batting gloves and long­sleeve T-shirts. The Irish (6­
7) will take a much shorter road trip than their previous Florida, Arizona and Texas trips when they head south today to southern Indiana. 
Notre Dame will face Northern Illinois (3-7) in a 4 
p.m. meeting at Evansville's Braun Stadium where the weather is forecasted to be a bit cooler than the heat of the Sun Belt. For the Thursday, Friday and Saturday· Ac·es' Diamond Classic, the temperatures are predicted to be in the high 50s. 
"We're going to start deal­ing with a different environ­ment than what we had the 
see IRISH/page 29 


FENCING 
Teams set for national finals today 
Notre Dame qualifies 
11 of a maximum 12 fencers to battle for title 
By ERl C RETTER Sports Wrircr 
It all comes down to this. 
AftPr a long season. tlw Irish. who arn No. I in the women's poll and No. 4 in the rnPn's, an~ n~ady to compntP in its culmina­tion. Notm DamP will partieipatP in the 200~ NCAA championships in llouston, which begin today and will run through Sunday. 
The Irish havP put in work and had success in preparation for the tournament and seem ready to make a run at the title. 
"The whole year, wP'vp been practicing to prepare for thi-s event," senior foilist Alicja Kryczalo said. 
Notre Dame is in good shape for the meet, having qualified 11 out of a maximum of 12 fencers to battle for the NCAA's ultimat<' prize. Of the three other teams who join the Irish as national champions in the past 11 years, only St. John's qualified all fencers. while Penn State and 
see NCAA/page 29 
FOOTBALL 

New experienced staff hard at work under Weis 
This is the second of a three­part series detailing the recruiting methods and policies under new head football coach Charlie Weis. 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sporrs Wrirer 

When Charlie Weis came to Notre Dame from the NFL's New England Patriots, he knew that he needed to improve recruiting, and he hired a staff that could do just that. 
Weis hired former recruiting coordinators and former head coaches for his star: -people who have spent a lot of time recruiting players. 
"I hired a staff with a lot of recruiting experience," Weis said. "In addition to having other experienced coaches on staff that have been head coaches, that have actuallv d on e tho s e j o b s . o n to p o"r those guys." 
Hecruiting coordinator Hob lanello, who also serves as the receivers' coach, was previ­ously the recruiting coordina­tor at the University of Wisconsin. In 1999, while thP recruiting coordinator at the University of Arizona, lanello was named one of the coun­try's top-10 rncrui1Prs by ESPN .com and one of the top six by The Sporting News. 
Michael Hayw(iod. the ofTen­sive coordinator and running backs coach, was the recruit­ing coordinator at the University of Texas beforP coming to Notre Dame. and Brian Polian, the assistant defensive backs and ~pecial 
see STAFF/page 28 


MEN'S TENNIS 
MLB 
NIT 

NBA 
NCAA TOURNAMENT 
NBA 
No. 3 Illinois vs. 
McGwire agrees 
Vanderbilt 67, 

Three sentenced 
Huskies out to 
Detroit 102, 
No. 16 Notre Dame 
to testify 
Indiana 60 

in Palace brawl 
prove No. 1 seed 
Seattle 95 
The Irish continue a 
Former superstar will 
The Hoosiers' season 

Three men were given 
Washington hopes to 
The Pistons' Ben 
difficult stretch of their 
appear at a 
comes to an end at the 

community service as a 
show it deserves its top 
Wallace set a franchise 
season with a match 
congressional hearing 
hands of the 

result of their 
seeding in the NCAA 
career-high in blocks 
against the powerful 
investigating steroid 
Commodores. 

participation in Pistons­
Tournament. 
while helping his team 
Illini. 
use in baseball. 

Pacers fight. 
to victory. 
page 27 
page 26 
page 24 
page 18
page 23 

page 19 





