
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 69 ' THURSDAY, JANUARY 13,2005 
Financial aid changes won't hurt ND 
University will still meet all student need 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
Notre Dame students who receive federal financial aid will not suffer as a result of recent changes to the govern­ment formula that determines aid eligibility, according to University administrators. 
The changes, which will take effect in the 2005-06 academic year, will mean 
SENATE 
reduced federal aid for some college students in many states, particularly New York, Delaware. Massachusetts, Michigan, South Carolina, Virginia and Wisconsin. But because Notre Dame is com­mitted to meeting 100 percent of each student's demonstrat­ed need, the University will make up for any cuts in feder­al aid, said Joseph Russo, director of the Office of Financial Aid. 
"The impact in our mind is relatively modest," Russo said. "We're very blessed here that we do have resources, and we can make those commit­ments." 
Approximately one-third of all Notre Dame undergradu­ates receive some federal financial aid -types of which include Pel! Grants, college work-study, federally subsi­dized Stafford Loans, Perkins Loans and Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants -but not all will see their eligibility affected, Russo said. 
Depending on a student's individual circumstances, the University will compensate for any reduced eligibility for one form of aid with aid from other sources, Russo said. 
And while he didn't want to belittle students at other uni­versities who will be hurt by the changes, he said specula­tion about the decrease has been "blown way out of pro­portion." 
"It's somewhat of a political issue ... and I do think it's been totally exaggerated," he said. "It is not going to change the [national] demographics of who's going to college." 
The cuts' impact on Notre 
see AID/page 4 
Meal plan option dominateS discussion 
Members debate -idea of'Flex 10' 
By AMANDA MICHAELS Assistant News Editor 
At the first Senate meeting of the new calendar year, members revived old resolu­tions and issues, including one for a third, "Flex 10" meal option, in addition the current 14 and 21 mean plans. 
Chief Executive Assistant Dave Baron started the meet­ing with an update on the SafeBus proposal's status. 
"We've been in contact with South Bend's Transpo, and 
see SENATE/page 6 

NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Early2009 applicants 
• 

nnpress 
Ethnic minority numbers constant 
By CLAIRE HEININGER News Editor 
With its Dec. 31 application ­deadline past, the Office of Admissions now turns its attention to shaping the Notre Dame Class of 2009 ­which, thanks to 2,800 early action applicants, is already coming into focus. 
That number is 200 appli­cants lower than last year, but this year's early action group is academically stronger than past applicant pools, Director of Admissions Dan Saracino said. 
And while the admissions office is still counting regular decision applications, he said, and thernfore still "guessing" what the final applicant pool will look like, early action offers a preliminary picture. 
Of the 1,362 applicants who were admitted under early action -the remaining 1,438 were denied or deferred to the regular deci­sion pool -17 percent are ethnic minorities, Saracino said. 
"That should transfer into a total of 22 or 23 percent when the dust settles come May," he said, which is con­sistent with the Class of 
see EARLY/page 4 
Notre Datne grad's Purple Heart revoked 
According to Ferrell, he was By MADDIE HANNA originally awardnd the medal for News Writer combat-related injuries suffered 
in southern Iraq the night of March 22, 2003.
U.S. Marine and 2000 Notre "It was the third day of theDame graduate lst Lt. Dustin war," he said of the event. "WeFnrrell wants the process used to 
were speeding north [in a
award Purpln lleart'i to change. 
llumveel going 60, 70 miles perFPrrell, 27, knows from person­hour."
al 11xpnrience. 

Ferrell, who doesn't rememberOn Dec. 14, the aetual accident, was told thatI<' e r r e I l a rocket-propelled grenade hadmeeived a let­hit his vehicle, killing the driverter from the and wounding Ferrell and the two U.S. Depart­other passengers. 
nwnt of the "I broke most of the bones in myNavy stating face, lost 14 teeth, shattered my
that the 
jaw," Ferrell said. 
Purple Heart After the event, he had a tra­
awarded to Ferrell cheotomy and was flown to
him March 31, Kuwait tor two days that he spent 2003 would be nwoked -nearly in an induced coma, then totwo years arter he received the Germany after being stabilized. 
prestigious military decoration. 
Several months after returning"I feel that this has been han­
to his home in Vacaville, Calif., 
dlnd very poorly. I don't want it to happen to anyone else," Ferrell said. see IRAQ/page 4 

esc moves up break deadline 
Seminar applications due 2 weeks earlier 
By TRICIA de GROOT New, Writer 
Due to a request by the Office of the Registrar, the deadline for applications to Center for Social Concerns service learning seminars has been moved up two weeks compared to past years. 
The change was made to simplify the registration process for these one-credit courses, said Angela Miller­McGraw, director of the Appalachia Program and Educational Immersions for the esc. 
"Students will be able to register by special permission within the registration period, which will reduce paperwork for the Registrar's Office and the esc. and we will also be able to finalize details with 
see TRIPS/page 6 page 2 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Get out your Eagles green 
You should be ple<L'>Pd to know that we an~ nntnring thn approximatnly third host timn of the year. Thn first is in fall, whm1 South Bend is warm and thn NFL is widn opnn and the Irish an~ frnn of nmbarrao.;s­ing gridiron losses and b<L'inball is Kate Gales starting to get really interesting, 
!lssistant
although my 
Sports Editor
hl'loved l'hillies are 
usually eliminated 
around this time. The second is March, 
wlmn r.ollngn b<L'ikntball is tim passion of 
every sporLo.; lim and the bao.;eball smLo.;on 
is a beautiful vision wlwre one can 
hPiinvn that tlw Phillins have a stnllar 
rotation and dnt!p bullpnn. 
But it's a now year right now, a now senwstnr and nnw b«'ginnings, whern the slate is wiped dean and nvery student sons dean's list honors and 4.0 gradns. This is the limn where eonlimmce play is starting in the always intnresting Big Eao.;t b<Lo.;kntball eonlimmcn and spring brnak plans an~ being madn and most impor­tantly, I am stn1!1j.,rtlwning my soul to mHiurn another round of the pia yoliS. 
Them am a lot of rdigious poopln in my part of e<Lo.;tern Pmmsylvania, but most of us arn devout liaglns litns tho way the Amish arn devout Christians. It's a subjed we never tim of, bm~ausn thorn's always sonwthing nnw to discuss. When Tl!rrell Owm1s burst onto the senne bnlbre this smLo.;on began. we had a nnw set of anties to dissect ovnr tho dinner table. Andy Hnid's brilliant management of the salary cap, a surprisingly dominant see­ondary and tim Campbl'll's Soup eorn­mnreials li•aturing Donovan McNabb and his mother mean that thorn's nevnr a dull moment in 1\aglns eountry. 
By Novnmber, it looked likn a straight shot to thn Supnr Bowl against the~ much nwiled St1~ders lrom the dirtier, less eivi­lizml western part of thn gn~at state of Ponnsylvania. I .ike Eaglos lims every­whore~. I W<L'> allowing mysdf drnams of tlw big dance that lmo.; Pludmlmy bolovnd tnam fill· tlw p<L'>t threP straight years. I couldn't have written a bottl!r script with a happier ending. 
And them came Dalhlo.; to ruin every­thing. Okay, all is not lost. But suddnnly tlw NFC is a wide-open gambler's night­mare. And with the barPiy ..'iOO Vikings upsetting the Paeknrs, I li!d likn anything can happen-not my favorite li!eling. Wlwn Owens wont down against Dallao.;, a little piocn of my heart dind inside. 
So C:OIIW this wePkend, I'll adjust the eornplntdy ghotto antonnao on our televi­sion. put allfragiln objnc:t lilr out of mach and tuno into tho NFL playolls like tho mildly obsnssnd fan that I am. Because in a wnird way, thn laen that the 1\aglns am almost an undordog makes me want to dwnr that much hardnr. Thnro arc at ln<L'it S1 rnao.;ons to lov!! tl1o Eagles right now and not all of tlwm aro rnlogated to n~hab li1r log injuriPs. I encourage you to throw your mnotional support behind tho inlinitoly lovable and yet utterly li!arsome Hagins during this NFL playoll'snries. i\l'tnr all, this is onn of thn bost times of the yoar. Ll!t'S make it onn that Eaglos lims can rmnmnbnr with jubilation. 
The l'iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily thmw ofThe Observer. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to a reponing error, an aniclc in the Jan. 12 ,-&cion of "Ilte Observer said t:hat lmcmational Srudcnt Services and Activities mnlirm<xl no Notre Dame srudcnts or professors were among those hun or killed in t:hc recent tsunami. The ISSA tkJeS nm track prolessors and only mnfirmed srudents' wdl-being. 
Due 10 a reponing error, an anide in the Jan. 12 e-dition of The Observer said that Hammes Mowbray Hall was offi­cially dcdicll<xl Jan. 4. There was aaually a sJllall infOrmal event that day, and t:he official dedicttion will be a University event at a later date. ·me Observer regrets t:hese errors. 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Thursday, January 13, 2004 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT'S THE WORST PLANE FLIGHT YOU'BE BEEN ON? 




take me 

next to smelled 
home for 

like salami." 
Thanksgiving. , 

Mike O'Connor  Carrie Lett  Dan Bradley  Jackie Carter  Dan Keough  
Carroll freshman  offcampus senior  freshman Alumni  freshman Pangborn  sophomore O'Neill  
"The one that got cancelled that was supposed to  "The one that I missed."  "Well I've only been on one plane flight, but the lady I sat  "I got stuck between two fighting siblings. "  "My luggage got lost and I had to sit next to two fat  

Bank discards loaded cash machine 
OSLO, Norway -i\rild Tofte and Kaare Heggdal know that recyeling pays, but they weren't quite pre­pamd for the jackpot that a scrapped cash machine con­tained. It was still full of eash. Enough to buy a house and take a luxury vacation. 

The two Norwegians run a reeycling company in the western Norway town of Aaroodalen, and had been hired by the Sparebanken Moern bank to remove an outdated automatic teller machine, or ATM. from a gas station, media reported Wcdnnsday. 
TODAY 0:: 


guys. 

IN BRIEF 
Campus Ministry will spon­sor a mass for victims of the Asian tsunami today from 
5:15 to 6:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Collnctions will also be taken to support relief' nfl'orts. 
The film "Motorcycle D_iaries" will be shown today and Friday at two times, 7 and 10 p.m., in tho Browning Theatnr of thn Dnbartolo Performing Arts Cnn tor. 
Tho Notre llame women's swimming team will takn on Michigan and Illinois Friday from 6 to 8:30 p.m. in Boll's Aquatic Centnr. 
The DeBartolo Pnrl'orming Arts Center will sponsor a preview of the movie "The Choir" Friday at 7 and 10 
p.m. in the Browning TheatP.r. The film won a Golden Globe award and will be shown in French with English subtitles. Tickets must bn reserved in advancn through DPAC. 
The men's tennis team will play Toledo Saturday from IJ to 11 a.m. in the Eek Tennis Pavilion. 
The men's basketball team will compete against St. John's Saturday from 2 to 4 
p.m. in the Joyce Center Arena. 
Saint Mary's will celebrate the inaguration of new pres­ident Carol Mooney on Friday, with ovents planned throughout the day. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an e11ent to obsnews@nd. edu. 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


16 26 12 16 


KELLY HIGGINS!The Observer 

Saint Mary's students discuss the upcoming inaguration of new College president Carol Mooney scheduled for Friday. 
OFFBEAT 

Memphis. 
Fate Pattnrson, 39, of' West Memphis was apprehended Monday night, West Memphis police said Wednesday. Oflieers had to use a taser to subdue Patterson, who had dodged police for six months or so. 
The jogger was arrested after he ran past a police car and failed to stop when he was ordered to do so by olli­cers on location. After his eapture, Patterson was charged with indecent expo­sure, fleeing and resisting arrest. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
SATURDAY 

Toftn, 30, said the woman on duty at tho gas station was more than a little skep­tical when two men showed up with a trolley and a truck, wanting to remove her ATM. 
"She calmed down when I explained that the machine was empty and that we had a contract to pick it up," Tofte told the local Homsdals Budstikke newspaper. 
Arkansas cops use taser to subdue nude jogger 
WEST MEMPIIIS, Ark. -Oflkers have finally arrested a man for making late-night runs in the nude along Airport Road in West 
TONIGHT FRIDAY 
LLI 
::::1: 
!;;: 
LLI 
3: 
-I 
<( (,) 






0 
..... HIGH 44 HIGH 23 HIGH 
LOW 17 LOW 15 LOW 
20 17 
HIGH LOW 
24 01 

Atlanta 74 I 62 Boston 70 I 49 Chicago 64 I 48 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 78 I 72 Minneapolis 80 I 62 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphiia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 75 I 49 
Thursday, January 13, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Returning students face airline probletns, delays 
By STEVE KERINS 
News Writer 
For Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students traveling home or for vacation over winter break, airport hassles in South Bend, Chicago and elsewhere caused delays and frustration. 
Numerous incidences of severe weather, increased volume at major airports due to holiday travel and logistical issues com­bined to produce increased delays and canceltations. 
Airports and airlines began to experience increased problems during Christmas week, causing US Airways and Comair to ground dozens of flights. 
The airlines also cited increased sick calls from staff and crew and computer troubles as causes. Also, a prolonged cold snap and heavy snows slowed air travel throughout the Midwest. 
Heavy rains and snow in California and other areas of the Southwest over the past several days have caused major and minor travel delays at airports nationwide. 
"I had one [flight! cancelled because the plane broke down and another one [was cancelled] because of snow in Nevada," said freshman Jessica Badger, who was traveling back to Notre Dame from her hometown, Carson City, Nev. 
"We took an orchestra tour to 

California," said sophomore 
Patrick Wood. "[We] flew 
lbackl to O'Hare. We were 
delayed by an hour. It was a couple days after they shut down the airport, so they overcompen­sated." 
Freshman Louis Gularte flew from San Francisco to Chicago's O'Hare airport, where his United flight to South Bend was can­celled. 
"There was no South Bend flight that I really could have gotten on," he said, noting that there were too many stand-by passengers for too few remain­ing flights. "I took the bus back." 
Other students experienced problems due to airport issues. 
"I was going from Los Angeles to South Bend, with a stopover in Cincinnati," sophomore Liz Clifton said .. "The elevators at LAX were broken, and I had to wait an hour and a half to get to the gate. My flight was delayed for two hours because of equip­ment malfunctions." 
In Cincinnati, Clifton found more delays. 
"The flight to South Bend was delayed seven hours and full from stand-by. I would have had to stay overnight, so I eventually got off in Cincinnati and had my husband Mark drive me to South Bend," she said 
Contact Steve Kerins at skerins@nd.eclu 

Astronaut, ND alun1 returns 
Special to The Observer Astronaut and Notre Dame graduate James D. Wetherbee has retired from NASA to pursue other interests. He flew six times aboard the space shuttle and is the only U.S. astro­naut to command five space flights. Most recently, Wetherbee, 52, served as the space shuttle lead in the Independent Technical Authority at NASA's Johnson Space Center (JSC). His earlier positions included service as techni­
cal assistant to the director of JSC's Safety and Mission Assurance Directorate, two years as director of Flight Crew Operations at JSC, and five years as the deputy director of JSC. 
"Jim is a true expert in space operations, who has dedicated his life to space exploration," said Director of Flight Crew Operations Ken Bowersox. "His engi­neering sense and relent­less attention to detail were critical to the success of all his space missions. Those same skills will serve our country well, as Jim moves on to new chal­lenges." 

Wetherbee was selected to the astronaut corps in 1984 and served as pilot on his first space flight in 1990. He was the com­mander on missions in 1992, 1995, 1997' 2001 and 2002, and his flights included the first ren­dezvous by a shuttle with the Russian Mir Space Station, a docking mission to Mir, and two flights to the International Space Station. 

Wom_an charged in child's death 
Associated Press SPRINGFIELD, Mass. -A woman was charged Wednesday in the death of a 3-year-old boy who was allegedly raped and slain by a 12-year-old. Relatives and a friend said the woman was the mother of the older boy, who also has been charged. District Attorney William Bennett said Marisol Alverio, 28, was arrested Wednesday afternoon on charges of murder and reckless endangerment of a child. She will be arraigned Thursday. 
Earlier Wednesday, the 12-year-old was ordered held without bail following his arraignment on rape and murder charges; the juvenile court hearing was closed. 
"The evidence gathered indicates that MarisDl Alverio acted with malice in failing to protect the vic­tim from someone whom she knew was abusing (the victim) and in failing to seek medical attention for an obviously injured 3­year-old child," the prose­cutor said. 
Bennett did not reveal the relationship between Alverio and the 12-year­old, whose name was not released because of his age. 

However, the victim's aunts and a male friend of Alverio said she was the older boy's mother. 
They said she was a fam­ily friend who had been caring for the preschooler while his parents were in Puerto Rico on family busi­ness. 
Bennett would say only that the caregiver was not a member of the victim's immediate family. 



st." , 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, )R. HOLIDAY CELEBRATION TUESDAY, JANUARY 18: TOWN HALL MEETING 7:00-8:00 PM COLEMAN-MORSE CENTER 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 13, 2005 
Iraq 
continued from page 1 
Ferrell found out from his bat­talion that the event was aetually an aceident. 
"But their understanding was that I still merited the award, according to Purple Heart crite­ria," he said. 
llowever, according to the letter Ferrell received from the Department of the Navy, a copy of which was obtainnd by Thn Observnr, his injuries were purely accidental and did not merit the medal. 
"Although your injury occurred during a combat operation, your eommand verified that your injury was the result of a vehicle acei­dent and was not caused directly or indirectly by enemy action," the letter stated. 
Aeeording to U.S. military guide­lines that govern who receives the award, the medal i<> "awarded to members of the armed forces of th1~ U.S. who am wounded by an instrument of war in the hands of the enemy and posthumously to the next of kin in the name of those who are killed in action or die of wounds received in action." 
Ferrell said that according to his knowledge, 10 other servicemen who were in Iraq also recently had their Purple llearl<> revoked, including the other two passen­gers in hi<> vehide. 
"I don't want my own medal reinstated. It would be odd for me to wear it after all this," Ferrell said. 
But Ferrell has been working with U.S. Hep. Peter Visdosky, 0­lnd., to get the medals reinstated f(Jr some of the others. 
"One [situation] that kind of got me going was a guy that got run over by a tank and had his medal taken away," Ferrell said, noting that Purple Hearts are awarded in eases of friendly fire but not in an accident sueh as this. 
"They need to make sure that they know what they're doing before they hand these things out," Ferrell said. 
Ferrell said his main goal is to raise awareness of the problem faeed by him, and the 10 others who lost their Purple Ilearts, clari­fying the criteria used to award the medal and changing the award process, ifneed be. 
"I don't know what's going to come of this, but I'm going to keep lighting," Ferrell said. 
Ferrell, who participated in HOH: while at Notre Dame, said the school greatly affected his life. 
"Growing up at a place like Notre Dame really helped make me a better officer, a moral deci­sion maker," Ferrell said, adding that he converted to Catholicism in 1999. 
Ferrell never expected that war might break out and that the mili­tary would send him to Iraq. 
"War was the furthest thing from my mind," he said. "You kind of get complacent." 
Although Ferrell feel<> that after having his Purple Heart taken away he "might as well have been in a tough accident at home," he doesn't regret going to Iraq. 
"I know that it's a possibility I might not have come home, and I'm very lucky," he said. 
Ferrell now has a non-combat job as an assistant operations offi­cer at Base Camp Lejeune in North Carolina. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 
Aid 
continued from page 1 

Dame's student demographic goals 
will likely be negligible, said Dan Saracino, director of the Office of Admissions. 
Because the core financial aid promise remains the same, the changes "are not going to hurt us in our efforts to increase and maintain socioe­conomic diversity at Notre Dame," he said. 
"The only way it could impact us would be indirectly, if the public reads in the press about this big cut, they may just hon­estly say there's no way I can afford Notre Dame now and they won't apply," Saracino added. "But if they talk with anyone [at the University] who knows about admissions and financial aid, they'll realize that it isn't going to stop their ability to come to Notre Dame." 
The government expects to save $300 million in the 2005­06 academic year as a result of the adjustments, which will cause at least 1.3 million stu­dents nationwide to receive smaller Pell Grants. Though the formula is supposed to be updated annually, Husso said, the legislative changes will be the first in 18 months. 
"The political dynamic delayed it last year ... no one wanted to be the bad guy," he said. "[But] the adjustment has to happen, and we don't believe it's a show-stopper in terms of ... students changing 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 

Root:s Rock Societ:y-Live Reggae Band (1 Opm) Beach Part:y vv/ DJ lii'John (Midnight:) 
Saturday 
The Argument: -sponsored by SUB ( 1 Opm) Night:club vv/DJ Kim -Jong-illmat:ic (Midnight:) 

l~ECENDS 
F NOTRE DAME 
All Shovvs Free I ND, SMC, HCC ID Required 

Early 
continued from page 1 

2007's 21 percent and the Class of 2008's 22 percent ethnic minority representa­tion. 
Like the regular decision group, distinctions such as ethnic minority status stand 
out in the early appli­cant pool, where a solid academic record alone may not be enough, Saracino said. 
"We kind of raise the bar a little bit with early action," he said. 
Only about 200 of those who cleared that bar this 

year have decided to attend Notre Dame, Saracino said. But that figure is typical for this early stage in the admissions cycle, he said, adding that a rush of confir­mations usually takes place when financial aid packages are offered in late March. 
"The students who are going to confirm with us before April 1 are the stu­dents [for whom] money's not a big concern -HOTC scholarships, athletes," Saracino said. 
Like regular decision applicants, early action applicants have until May 1 to confirm enrollment. 
The luxury of more time 
Thursday 
St:udent: St:and-up Comedy (1 Opm) Brevv & Vievv: Pulp Fict:ion (Midnight:) 
Friday 

"Notre Dame is not convert to early action­
fortunate in that 
single choice, 

doing the right 
a new option

thing [by offering offered by open early action] Harvard, Yale 
and Stanford
is, to me, a no­
Universitiesbrainer." beginning last year. 
Dan Saracino " T h e Y ' r e director of admissions saying, basi­
to decide on a college ­more than four months, since they are informed whether or not they will be offered admission by Dec. 20 -is one advantage early action applicants enjoy, Saracino said. 
That service to student'> is the reason Notre Dame has always offered non-binding early action instead of bind­ing early decision, he said, and will 
cally, 'look, if 
we're going 
to go through the trouble of reading your file in November when it's really, really busy, we don't want to go through the trou­ble unless you're telling us we're your first choice," Saracino said. "And my feel­ing is kind of, well, tough. So, you have to work a little harder to review files ... Notre Dame is fortunate in that doing the right thing [by offering open early action] is, to me, a no-brain­er." 
Maddie Hanna con­tributed to this report. 
Contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu 

--~~----~---~---------~-----­


ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, January 13, 2005 Cotv1PllED FROM TI-IE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 


INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Car bombs on the rise in Iraq 
BAGHDAD. Iraq -Car bombs echo across Baghdad and a constellation of cities around Iraq nearly every day, intlicting slaughter and billowing oily smoke, a reminder to all who see or hear them that the country's insurgents can strike almost anywhere. 
Vehicles packed with explosives, often deto­nated by suicide attackers, have become one of the insurgency's most lethal weapons. An Associated Press tally shows there have been at least 181 of them since Iraq's interim govern­ment took over June 28 -just a handful at first but surging to a rate of one or more a day in recent months. 
Aids rapidly spreading in Russia 
MOSCOW-1-IIV/AIDS is spreading at a dev­astating pace in Hussia, with a new study show­ing an estimated 1 million people infected ­three times the number officially reported ­
U.S. and Russian experts said Wednesday. 
A recently released 90-page report by Murray Feshbach and Cristina Galvin of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars urged Hussian authorities to take aggressive steps to fight the epidemic. The study was sponsored by 
U.S. Agency for International Development. 
According to official statistics, Russia has some 300.000 HIV-positive people. But Feshbach, as well as Russian expert<;, said the true number is closer to 1 million. The study estimated the number of AIDS deaths in Russia at 13,000, almost three times the official figure of 4,800. 
If officials ignore the problem, "the conse­quences will be devastating to the society, fami­ly formation, to the military, labor productivi­ty" within two to three years, Feshbach said by telephone from Washington. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Supreme Court makes changes 
WASIIINGTON -A splintered Supreme Court threw the nation's federal sentencing system into turmoil Wednesday, ruling that the way judges have been sentencing some 60,000 defendants a year is unconstitution­al. 
In ordering changes, the court found 5-4 that judges have been improperly adding time to some criminals' prison stays. 
The high court stopped short of scrapping the nearly two-decade-old guideline system, intended to make sure sentences do not vary widely from courtroom to courtroom. 
Instead, the court said in the second half of a two-part ruling that judges should con­sult the guidelines in determining reason­able sentences -but only on an advisory basis. 
Washington governor inaugurated 
OLYMPIA, Wash. -Democrat Christine Gregoire, winner of one of the closest gover­nor's races in U.S. history, was inaugurated Wednesday amid a legal challenge that could undo her election. 
A roar of approval went up from fellow Democrats as Gregoire raised her hand and took the oath of office before a joint session of the Democrat-controlled Legislature. 
Hepublicans. who had battled unsuccess­fully to delay her inauguration, gave her a frosty reception. 


LOCAL NEWS 

Midwest weather causes crashes 
ALAIEDON TOWNSHIP, Mich. -At least two people diod and 25 others were injured whnn about 100 vehicles crashed Wednesday in thick fog on a Michigan highway, police said. 
One person also was killed in Indiana when at least 20 vehicles piled up amid heavy fog on a highway east of South Bend. Numerous others were injured. 
The National Weather Service had issued a dense fog advisory for the area, saying visi­bility could be less than a quarter of a mile. 
Weapons search finally over 
Two-year multimillion dollar effort by inspectors in Iraq Jails to yield results 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The White House acknowl­edged Wednesday that its hunt for Iraqi weapons of mass destruction -a two­year search costing mil­lions of dollars -has closed down without find­ing the stockpiles that President Bush cited as a justification for overthrow­ing Saddam Hussein. 
Bush's spokesman said the president had no regrets about invading Iraq. 
"Based on what we know today, the president would have taken the same action because this is about pro­tecting the American peo­ple," said Press Secretary Scott McClellan. 
The Iraq Survey Group -made up of as many as 1,500 military and intelli­gence specialists and sup­port staff -is ending its search of military installa­tions, factories and labora­tories where it was thought that equipment and products might be converted to making weapons. 
McClellan said the active search had virtually ended. "There may be a couple, a few people that are focused on that," he said, adding that they would to manipulate the U.N. oil­situation in Iraq leading up been made since the Sept. handle any future reports for-food program. to Jan. 30 elections. 11, 2001, attacks. that might come in. At the time, Bush strong­Meanwhile, other coun­Almost one year ago, 
At a meeting last month, ly defended his decision to tries -notably Iran and Bush formed a presidential McClellan said Bush invade Iraq. Saddam North Korea -are sus­commission to investigate thanked the chief U.S. "retained the knowledge, pected of developing covert U.S. intelligence capabili­weapons inspector, Charles the materials; the means nu.clear weapons pro­ties on weapons of mass Duelfer, for his work. A and the intent to produce grams. destruction, focusing not special adviser to the CIA weapons of mass destruc­When asked whether the only oil Iraq but on how director, Duelfer will deliv­tion, and he could have failure to find weapons of well the intelligence com­er a final edition of a passed that knowledge on mass destruction in Iraq munity understands the report on Iraq's weapons to our terrorist enemies," would damage U.S. credi­threat from other countries next month. McClellan said Bush said in October. bility in handling future and terror networks. Its it is not expected to funda­On Wednesday, House threats, McClellan said the report is due March 31. mentally differ from the Democratic leader Nancy president would eontinue he dosing down of the findings of a report last Pelosi of California said, to work with the interna­weapons search was 11rst fall. "Now that the search is tional community, particu­reported in the Washington 
Duelfer said then that finished, President Bush larly on diplomatic solu­Post on Wednesday. Iraq had no weapons of needs to explain to the tions. He said pre-emptive David Kay, who headed mass destruction and had American people why he military action was "the the Iraq Survey Group not made any since 1991. was so wrong, for so long, last option" to pursue. until stepping down last However, he said the gov­about the reasons for war." "We are acting to make January, said he was not ernment harbored inten­The end of the weapons sure we have the best pos­surprised the group was tions of recreating its hunt comes as the Bush sibleintelligence," concluding its efforts with­weapons programs and administration struggles McClellan said, adding that out finding any major had gone to great lengths with a dangerous security a number of changes have weapons stockpiles. 

Sharon fends off latest challenge 
jeopardy. threatened to oppose the budget in
Associated Press 

Sharon this week formed a new gov­subsequent votes if Sharon does not 
JERUSALEM -Prime Minister Ariel ernment with the dovish Labor Party hold a referendum on the pullout Sharon fended off the latest challenge and a small ultra-Orthodox Jewish plan. to his Gaza withdrawal plan on party. The allianee, with the occasion­"It was decided unanimously to sup­Wednesday, winning a parliamentary al backing of several opposition par­port the budget until the second and vote that had threatened to bring ties, gives Sharon a solid majority in third readings," Yehiel Hazan, one of down his new moderate government. favor of the Gaza withdrawal, despite the hard-liners, said before the 64-53 
But hard-liners in his Likud Party objections from 13 Likud lawmakers. vote. "We call on the prime minister to said they will topple Sharon if he does­Without the hard-liners' support, reconsider holding a referendum." n't put his pullout plan to a national however, Sharon doesn't have enough Sharon has rejected a referendum referendum -a step he has ruled out. votes to push his budget through par­as a stalling tactic. Sharon's 
The political crisis revolved around liament. Some of the opposition par­spokesman, Asaf Shariv, said after the Sharon's 2005 state budget, which ties backing the withdrawal oppose vote that the prime minister's opinion must pass three votes by March 31. Sharon's 2005 spending plan. hasn't changed. Otherwise, the government must Just before Wednesday's vote, the Sharon was expected to court the resign and new elections would be Likud rebels said they would tem­ultra-Orthodox Shas Party to shore up scheduled, putting the Gaza pullout in porarily support the budget. But they support for the budget. 
·,. 
Thursday, January 13, 2005
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Trips 
continued from page 6 
our site partners earlier in the s1mwster." Miller-McCraw said. 
The Center for Soeial Concer·ns offers one-credit service seminars that allow students to examine various social issues during fall, win­ter and spring breaks. 
Traditionally, tlw deadline for tlw spring snrvin~ seminars has been at least two weeks af'ter students return from winter break, but this year, arter a series of earlier con­versations between the OITiee of the Begistrar and the CSC's site partners, tlw deadline was moved to today, the third day of spring semester classes, said Miller-McGraw. 

The CSC is offering six semi­nars for the March 5-12 spring break this year. The Appalachia Seminar, at 225 students, is the largest. 
The early deadline prompted concerns about fewer appli­cants compared to previous years. 
llowever, Miller-McGraw said the number of applicants remained high, but the Appalachia Seminar still had open spaces. She would not provide specific numbers about how many people had applied as of Wednesday com­pared to the numbers of appli­cations received by the esc on the day before the deadline of previous years. 
The CSC was also not able to accept all applicants to the smaller seminars, like the Migrant Experiences Seminar and the Children and Poverty Seminar, due to limited fund­ing and site accommodations. 
"It may take some time for students to adjust to the earli­er application process now that it coincides with the regu­lar registrations period, but I do not think it will have a sig­nificant affect on the pro­grams," Miller-McGraw said. 
The deadline for applications is today, but there may be a grace period for students unaware of the changed dead­line if spaces are still open in the Appalachia program, Miller-McGraw said. 
Contact Tricia de Groot at pdegroot@nd.edu 

Research office appoints director 
Spcc.ial to The Observer 
M i<:hael Ed wards, currently director of technology transfer in Notre Danw's graduate school has been named assis­tant vice president and dirm~tor of the Ofliee of Hnsearch. The appointment is elTective Jan. 2X. 
Edwards succeeds lloward llanson. who is retiring arter serving in tlw Office of Hnsnarch for 15 years, the last five as assistant vice president and director. 
The Ollien of' Hesearch helps l'aeulty members obtain and manage the funding they need to support their research and scholarship. 

"The doubling of sponsored research at Notre Dame over the last l'ew years requires us to provide new levels of' adminis­trative support and service to l"aeulty and students at the University." said Jell'rey Kantor. vice president l'or graduate studies and research. ''I'm look­ing forward to working with Mlkn to meet this challenge." 
''I'm privileged to have this opportunity," Edwards said. "Howard llanson. with the sup­port of Jeff' Kantor and the leadership of the Graduate School, has created a culture of outstanding support to the fac­ulty. With the assistance of the superb staff in the Office of Heseareh, I intend to maintain that culture and continually seek ways to improve it." 
Edwards came to Notre Dame in 1986 as an assistant profes­sor of military science. lie returned in 1997 as a professor and chair of the Army HOTC program and was named diree­tor of technology transfer in 2000. 
Prior to coming to Notre Dame, Edwards served on active duty in the U.S. Army for 24 years, retiring with the rank of lieutenant colonel. 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
they've already started offering a discounted stu­dent pass of $25 for 31 days of' rides. And we're still talking about late-night routes," Baron said. "Now 

we've taken a "We're not saying stands, Food different Serviens
everyone wants 

approach and assumes that
/Flex Jo/, but

are talking students will directly to the there's a definite only nat 10 bar owners to meals a week.
need." 

encourage "So what it transportation comes down to l'rom that end." Christian Hoeffel is us asking for 
The Com m­Committee on more Flex­ittee on Hes-Residence Life Points, because idence Life, the Dining Halls
member
chaired by Sarah Bates, brought up an issue first proposed two years ago. Christian lloeffel. a non­Senate member of the com­mittee, presented a resolu­tion calling for Food Service's serious considera­tion of adding a "Flex 10" option to the two existing meal plans. 
"Flex 10" would restrict students to 10 meals in the dining hall per week, but proportionally increase the number of FlexPoints grant­ed to them each semester. A survey done by the Committee on Residence Life found that over 50 per­cent of respondents favored such a plan -a number upwards of 60 percent if freshmen were factored out. 

"We're not saying every­one wants it !Flex 101. but there's a del'inite need, and students deserve it," lloeffel said. "They're not using all their meals, and over 70 percent of students sur­veyed said they ran out of FlexPoints." 
Student body president Adam Istvan pointed out 
that, as the Flex 
14 currently 
arc going to 
projeet supply and demand the same way," Istvan said. 
Debate became focused on the plan's feasibility, but Bates emphasized that the resolution was intended to be a broad statl~ment of support of a general idea, in hopes that it would stir Food Serviens to Bstablish a more intnnsn debate of the 
details  so  that it could be  
officially  sanctioned  or  
ruled out.  

The motion passed, and a copy of' the resolution will now be sent to both the Campus Lil'e Council and Food Services. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 


Thursday, January 13, 2005 

J:,~':s 10,617.78 +61.56 
4 
Up: Same: : Composite Volume: 1,933 155 1,560,313,472 

AMEX 1,396.98 +4.31 NASDAQ 2,092.53 +12.91 NYSE 7,075.64 +31.53 S&PSOO 1,396.98 +4.31 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 11,453.39 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,783.60 -35.10 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CP (INTC) +2.75 +0.62 23.16 
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) +2.79 +0.17 6.27 
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.19 +0.05 26.78 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) + 1.56 +0.29 18.93 
APPLIED MATERIALS (AMAT) +2.35 +0.38 16.53 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.31 -0.15 47.71 
10-YEAR NOTE -0.19 -0.08 42.36 
5-YEAR NOTE -0.22 -0.08 37.03 
3-MONTH BILL -0.43 -0.10 22.92 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.12 46.65 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +4.20 422.40 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.65 95.53 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 02.4600 
EURO 0.7542 
POUND 0.5289 
CANADIAN$ 1.20 IS 
IN BRIEF 
Billionaire to start free newspaper 
DENVEH -A media company owned by bil­lionaire investor Philip Anschutz said Wednesday it will launch a free, six-day-a­week newspaper in the Washington, D.C., area on Feb. 1. 
The Washington Examiner, a tabloid, will replace three suburban newspapers that Anschutz's Clarity Media Group bought from Journal Newspapers Inc. last year for an undisclosed sum. 
The Examiner will be published Sunday through Friday and will tailor some news and opinion pages for residents in the District, suburban Maryland and northern Virginia. 
The company said home delivery will also be availablo in parts of Washington, a rarity for a froP nPwspaper in a big media market. It is planning an initial daily circulation of about 2fJO,OOO. 
McKesson will repay shareholders 
SAN FHANCISCO -Health services giant MeKesson Corp. said Wednesday it has agreed to repay shareholders $960 million to settle a class-action lawsuit related to an accounting scandal that has resulted in criminal convic­tions of sfweral former executives. 
The case consolidated several class-action lawsuits brought on behalf of McKesson's shareholders burned by the financial shenani­gans that occurred when the company bought sof'twarP maker IlBO & Co. in 1999. 
The company said Wednesday it would establish a $1.2 billion reserve for the payout and future claims stemming from 16 still­unrosolved shareholder lawsuits. 
The oxpense will saddle San Francisco­based McKesson with a net charge of $810 million, or $2.70 per share, in its quarter just completed in December. 
The settlement "represents a significant step toward fully resolving the uncertainty related to this unfortunate chapter in the company's history and allows us to focus once again only on the future," said McKesson Chairman John 
H. llammergren. 
McKesson has been fighting dozens of law­suits since an internal investigation concluded that HBOC had been fabricating revenue in the years leading up to its $12 billion sale. 

Tt-..JE OBSERVER 





USINESS 
page 7 

Trade deficit hits record high 
Reliance on foreign oil and a record import offoreign food cause increase 
Associated Press 
WASiliNGTON-The U.S. trade deficit hit an all-time high of $60.3 billion in November as American appetites for foreign oil and even imported food reached record levels. 
The Bush administration urged other countries to help fix the problem, but analysts said the yawning deficit won't be so easily solved. 
The Commerce Department reported Wednesday that the short­fall between what the United States sells abroad and what it imports increased 7.7 percent from the previous record -the October deficit of $56 bil­lion. 
That was a surprise given that oil prices had come down during the month. Analysts said it served to underscore the seriousness of the country's trade situa­tion. 
The deficit through November totaled $561.3 billion and is expected to top $600 billion once December's figures are tal­lied, far surpassing last year's record of $496.5 bil­lion. 

"We now have the Grand Canyon of trade deficits," said Joel Naroff, head of a Holland, Pa., forecasting called on Bush to convene tion has not changed its pol­While the dollar is down firm. "Actually, deficit is an emergency meeting of icy favoring a strong dollar, significantly against the really a misnomer. Chasm, key government policy­but currency traders believe euro over the past three gorge, black hole, infinitely makers. the administration really years, it has declined much deep well all fit the descrip­But administration offi­wants the dollar to decline less against Asian curren­tion better." cials said foreign countries further to lower the trade cies. China has refused 
Democrats, who sought to are not growing fast enough deficit by making U.S. administration pleas to stop make the widening trade to stimulate domestic exports cheaper on foreign linking its currency directly and budget deficits issues in demand that would help markets and making to the dollar, a practice that the presidential campaign, boost U.S. exports. Treasury imports more expensive for U.S. manufacturers contend contended that the Secretary John Snow told Americans. has made the yuan as much November shortfall was fur­reporters in New York that News on the deficit sent as 40 percent undervalued, ther evidence that President finance officials from the the dollar sharply lower in giving Chinese companies a Bush's trade policies are not world's seven wealthiest trading Wednesday against huge competitive advan­working. They note that the countries would focus on major currencies including tage. country lost 2. 7 million ways to promote global the euro and the British Former Michigan Gov. manufacturing jobs over the growth when they meet in pound. Stocks, however, John Engler, who heads the past four years as compa­Londcm in early February. took the ballooning deficit in National Association of nies moved production facil­"We want to create more stride. The Dow Jones Manufacturers, said the ities to low-wage countries. engines of world growth," industrial average finished administration needs to 
"A trade deficit of $60 bil­Snow said, contending that the day up 61.56 points at keep up the pressure on lion a month is a crisis and Europe and Japan need to 10,617.78 as investors China not just on the cur­it needs to be addressed, do more to stimulate chose to focus instead on rency issue but on other not ignored," said Sen. growth. strong earnings news from unfair trade practices as Byron Dorgan, D-N.D., who Snow said the administra-Intel Corp. well. 

Engineered crops remain a success 
by two philanthropic groups, includ­crops contain bacteria genes that
Associated Press 

ing the Rockefeller Foundation. make the plants resistant to either 
SAN FRANCISCO -Farmers In 1996, the first year genetically bugs or weed killers. around the globe planting genetically modified crops were commercially James and other biotechnology engineered crops enjoyed another available, about 4.3 million acres proponents argue that genetically bumper harvest last year even as were under biotechnology cultiva­modified plants will help alleviate political and financial pressure tion. poverty and hunger in developing mounted from skeptical consumers "The technology is probably poised nations by improving crop yields and in Europe and pockets of the United to enter a new era of growth," said cutting expenses through less use of States, an industry-supported group the group's founder and chairman, pesticides. said Wednesday. Clive James. The group promotes use Edwin Paraluman, a farmer in the 
Eight million farmers in 17 coun­of the technology in poor countries. Philippines who joined James on a tries grew engineered crops on 200 James estimated that the number conference call with reporters million acres last year, a 20 percent of biotech crop acreage could double Wednesday, said the planting of increase over the 167 million acres by 2010, spurred on by China's genetically engineered corn last year in 2003, according to a report expected approval to grow genetical­yielded him 40 percent more crop released by the International Service ly engineered rice as soon as this than usual. for the Acquisition of Agri-Biotech year. "The benefits for the small farmer Applications. The report was paid for The most popular biotechnology are great," Paraluman said. 
' 
' I 
. ~ 
page 8 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, January 13, 2005 
Coleman-Morse Center 
574-631-7800


Campus Ministry 
ministry.1 @nd.edu campusministry.nd.edu 

friday 1.14 
Law School Retreat 
Friday-Saturday 
Sacred Heart Parish Center 
Sign Up for Retreats!!! 
NDE #84 (Feb 4-6) 

Deadline: Fri. Jan 14@ Noon 
NDE #85 (Feb 25-27) 
Deadline: Mon, Jan 31 
Freshman Retreat #57 
(Jan 28-29) 
Applications are available in 
114 CoMo or online at 
campusministry.nd.edu. 
saturday 1.1s 
Solemn Mass of the Blessed Virgin Mary Every Saturday -9:00am Alumni Hall Chapel 
monday 1.11 
Eucharistic Adoration 12:00 noon-7:00pm Every Monday -Thursday Coleman-Morse Chapel 

tuesday 1.18 
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr Celebration ­Town Hall Meeting . 7:00 -8:30pm CoMo Student Lounge 
Basilica Lector Training 8:00pm Welsh Family Hall Chapel 

Basilica Eucharistic Minister Training & Commissioning 9:00pm Welsh Family Hall Chapel 
wednesday 1.19 
Four:? Christian Prayer & Music 1O:OOpm -All are welcome! CoMo Student Lounge 
The Office of Campus Ministry 
~~ fa ofle!i a waJttn uweiamte 91acft!" fa all JVobte fOame 6~.. We'~ ltW6ed IJO-U! g.evt ~e 6~ ckpwdinff jtPt 6ltuUJ a&oad, ttUUJ (jod ~6 tpJWt ~ and all tpJWi nrot exp~.. 
mass schedule 

considerations ... 

On the day after Christmas, a single catastrophe on the other side of the 
world killed over 150,000 human beings. 
So what are we going to do about it? 
A related question: How could we, who probably spent December 26th 
gleefully enjoying our Christmas gifts, in any way ease the suffering of some Sri 
Lankan woman whose home and husband were swallowed by the Indian Ocean? 
We, after all, study and work at a university thousands and thousands of 
miles from the epicenter ofthe underwater earthquake. Tidal waves, the stuff of 
bad disaster movies, have never in our lifetime sprung up along St. Mary's Lake. 
The banks ofthe St. Joseph have never paid a visit to our doorsteps. At Notre 
Dame, our grounds are watered with million-dollar sprinkler systems, not tsuna­
mis. 

So maybe the best thing to do, way out here in South Bend, Indiana, is just to continue our strict regiment ofwatching the disaster footage on CNN and feeling sorry for people, right? Wrong. 
It seems that at this place ofextreme privilege, the greatest temptation is not to act wrongly, but rather to do nothing at all. The proverbial bubble that students joke about is almost palpable, arching above campus and enclosing us in apathy. And to varying degrees, we are all guilty ofplaying the part-we fret more about ND football than the homeless men and women who endure the cold without shelter, literally right down the street from us. We book trips to Cancun with our friends for Spring Break, opting for sun over service in Appalachia. 
Yet despite the easy insulation we find under the Dome, the number ofus involved in service is truly inspiring. For every selfish choice, there is always somebody who selflessly opts for others, who gives generously in the name of the Gospel. 
We Darners might find very little similarities between ourselves and the ravaged people ofSoutheast Asia. But the Gospel points us to one common trait that overcomes all else: our humanity. Because these innocents share our hu­manity, we are called to share their suffering. Their situation demands our prayers and active assistance. This is the one unified Body ofChrist the Church speaks of. How then do we help? The first and greatest way to aid victims is by praying for them. Masses are being celebrated across campus, notably this Thursday at 5: 15 in the Basilica. Second, we support our brothers and sisters through remem­brance. In a few weeks, this news item from Asia will become the stuff ofpage two, then slowly slip out ofview altogether. It is our Christian duty not to forget the people ofthese ravaged nations. Finally, opportunities for much-needed tlnancial donations abound; all money collected this weekend in the Basilica will go directly to Catholic Relief Services. Special collections at dorm Masses will do the same. In such desperate times, so soon after Christmas, we are called to give what we have received. It's time to place our hearts amidst the troubles on the other side ofour earth. And, it's time to put our money where our heart is­indeed, where our Lord is-and these days He walks amidst that far-off devasta­
tion. 

Second Sunday in Ordinary Time 
BasWca of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, January 15  Sunday. January 16  Around Campus (every Sunday)  
5:00 pm Vigil Mass Rev. Thomas Gaughan, esc  10:00 am Sunday Mass Rev. Thomas Gaughan, esc  1:30pm Spanish Mass  5:00pm Law School Mass  7:00pm MBA Mass  
11:45 am Sunday Mass  St. Edward's  Law School Chapel  Mendoza COB  
Rev. John Conley, esc  Hal/Chapel  Faculty Lounge  



Thursday, January 13, 2005 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
PAKISTAN 


Renegade tribes force gas plant shutdowns 
Associated Press 
QUETTA -More than 2,000 troops took control of one of Pakistan's major natu­ral gas plants and shut it down after renegade tribes­men fired hundreds of rock­ets, blowing up a pipeline and triggering clashes that have killed eight people in the last five days, officials said Wednesday. 
Tribesmen frequently target security forces and gas facili­ties to demand higher royal­ties from gas extracted from their territory, according to the government. 
Since Friday, attackers have fired 14,000 rounds of small arms fire, 435 mortars and up to 60 rockets at the plant in Sui, where about 22 per­cent of the natural gas sup­plied to Pakistan comes from, Interior Minister Aftab Khan Sherpao told a news confer­ence in Islamabad. 
Soldiers were dispatched Tuesday after armed tribes­men stormed the gas plant and "started damaging it," senior government official Abdul Samad Lasi said. About 2,000 soldiers took control of the plant and captured at least five suspected attack­ers. 
"The situation is now under control, and more paramili­tary forces are expected to arrive in Sui today," Lasi said. 
Sherpao said an army oper­ation was not immediately planned in Sui, 220 miles southeast of Quetta, the capi­tal of Baluchistan province. 
"As far as army action is concerned, it is for the provincial government. ... If they have the matter under control the federal govern­ment will not intervene, but if they ask the federal govern­ment, then necessary steps would be taken," Sherpao said. 
Eight people, three of them security personnel, were killed and another 33 people, mostly civilians, were wound­ed in five days of shootouts between assailants and gov­ernment forces, officials said. 
"The civilians suffered casualties when rockets fired by attackers hit their homes," Lasi said. 
Authorities had to shut a gas plant and suspend some supplies because of the dam­age caused to a pipeline, said Abdur Rasheed Lone, an offi­cial with the Sui Northern Gas Pipelines Ltd., which operates the Sui gas field. He said he hoped supplies would be restored within 24 hours. 
INDONESIA 
Affected regions' debt suspended 
Associated Press 
BANDA ACEH -The U.S. military faced tighter restric­tions Wednesday as the Indonesian government sought to reassert control 
·over foreign troops, relief workers and journalists in the tsunami-devastated region, which also has been the site of a rebel insurgency. 
In Paris, the world's wealth­iest nations said they support a moratorium on debt repay­ments by countries stricken by the Dec. 26 disaster that has killed more than 150,000 people. 
The moves by the Indonesian government, aimed primarily at U.S. troops, underscore the nationalistic country's sensi­tivities at having foreign mili­tary forces operating there ­even in a humanitarian effort. They also come amid warn­ings from the Indonesian mili­tary that areas of tsunami­battered Aceh province may not be safe for aid workers. 
Hundreds of from troops from Australia, Singapore, Germany and other nations are also helping the relief mission. The Indonesian mili­tary is providing security for all of them. 
The aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln, which is leading the U.S. military's relief effort, steamed out of Indonesian waters ordered aid workers and Wednesday because the U.S. journalists to declare travel Navy only has permission plans or face expulsion from from the Indonesians to fly Aceh as authorities moved to aircraft into its airspace that reassert control of the rebel­are directly supporting the lion-wracked area. humanitarian operation, said The White House said Lt. Cmdr. John M. Daniels, Wednesday it has asked the spokesman for the Lincoln Indonesian government to carrier strike group. explain the restrictions on aid Helicopters will workers and still deliver aid journalists. to Sumatra's "A three-month "We'll seek devastated period is enough, further clarifica­coast, however. tion from 
even the sooner the
Indonesia Indonesia about declined to let better." what this the ship's fight­means," White er pilots use its 1-1 o u s e
Jusuf Kalla
airspace for spokesman Scott 

Indonesian vice
training mis­McClellan. "We 

president
sions. Under hope that the 
U.S. Navy rules, pilots of carrier-based warplanes cannot go longer than 14 days without flying or their skills are con­sidered to have degraded too far. Since the Abraham Lincoln has been stationed off Sumatra since Jan. 1, the car­rier moved out of Indonesian waters so its pilots could con­duct their training flights in international airspace. 
Indonesian Vice President Jusuf Kalla said foreign troops would be out of the country by March 31. 
"A three-month period is enough, even the sooner the better," Kalla said. 
The government also government of 
Indonesia and the military in Indonesia will continue the strong support they have provided to the international relief efforts so far." 
At a Paris meeting Wednesday, a French official said the world's wealthiest nations, including the United States, believe a temporary suspension of billions of dol­lars in debt repayments by tsunami-devastated countries will provide a necessary "breath of oxygen" for recov­ery and reconstruction from the disaster that killed more than 150,000 people across southern Asia. 


SUB PRESENTS 
THURSDAY 
JANUARY 13TH 




8:00PM 
LAFORTUNE BALLROOM 
COME AND ENJOY THE FREE MOVIE AND FREE CHINESE CUISINE 
~ 
c'' Jt) nri Cl(~l'
~_)\. .; 1U.u ~ J 
brought to you.by tho student union board. 
Thursday, January 13, 2005 The Observer +NATIONAL NEWS page 10 
Journalist prisoner takes his fourth stand 
Mudslide leaves tnan grieving 
Associated Press a.m., firefighters and several ties. of Wallet's friends carried Gov. Arnold her to the makeshift morgue Schwarzenegger viewed the 
A CONCHITA, Calif. -at the town's gas station. damage by helicopter Jimmie Wallet went out for Wallet went in and identified Wednesday, and declared a ice cream, and when he got her, then returned to the state of emergency in the back, everyone and every­porch of a peach stucco county. thing he had left behind were house where he had been "It's extraordinary the way gone. staying, put up his feet and people have come together 
On Wednesday, he identi­sat without a word. here from tiHl moment the fied the bodies of his wife Two hours later, his mudslides hit," he said. and three of his daughters, youngest daughter, 2-year­The rainstorm that trig­pulled from a tangle of old Paloma, was taken out on gered the slide eon tin ued to homes smashed by a mud­a stretcher. Her sister Haven, bedevil the West, causing slide. 6, was next, soon followed by floods that destroynd housns 
No one lost 1 0-year-old in Arizona in Utah, washed more than Hannah. out roads and forcing dozens
"It tears these cars
Wallet in The three girls of people from their homes. Monday's mud­up like they're were found next No serious injuries were slide, which to each other, reported, but one man was
toys."
has killed at apparently sit­missing in Utah. least 10 people ting on a couch Crews using dogs, eanwras in this ocean­Greg Cleveland when the slide and mierophones intended to side communi­broke apart their keep searching for survivors ty. And, driven house, pushing it in La Conchita and then
fire captain
by the frantic for about 100 reassess the rescue opera­

Los Angeles County 
hope of finding yards and cover-tion on Thursday night. his family, no ing it in muck. The massive mound of mud one was as "They never had a ehanee covered several blocks and quick to elaw through the to get out," said Seott llall, a stood :{0 font high in some debris and help pull out sur­battalion chief with Ventura spots. vivors. County Fire Department. Scattnred in the mud were 
Wallet dug for hours in the His fourth daughter, a 16-a variety of household items, rain around where he year-old, had been in nearby inducting surfboards, dish thought the family might be. Ventura when the slide hap­towels, golf dubs and can­He helped rescue two people pened. celed chocks. before he stopped and wait­At least three people were A pickup truck looked like ed, smoking cigarettes as missing. The number of it had been in an explosion. friends stopped by to missing slowly dropped Other cars and mobile homes embrace him. Early Wednesday as more bodies were crushed. Wednesday, after 36 hours, were found and residents on "It tears thesn ears up like his wait ended. the missing list eithtH they're toys." Los Angelt~s 
His wife, Mechelle, was the showed up at a town meeting County fire Capt. Greg first to be found. Around 2 or got in touch with authori-Cleveland said. 
Associated Press 
LAKI~ CIIAHI.ES, La. -Forty­four years and three ovei·­turned convictions after he killed a bank teller on a lonely rural mad, Wilbnrt Hidnau took tlw stand Wednesday in hopes of' winning his freedom by eon­vincing jurors his actions fell short of' murder. 
Bidnau, who became an award-winning journalist lwhind bars, has never deniNI his guilt. 
llis dPI'ensP team hopes his fourth jury issues a verdict no worse than manslaughter, mak­ing him Pligible for release lwca usn of' tiH~ time lw has already snrvnd. 
"You killt~d Julia Ferguson, didn't you?" ddense atlorrwy .Julian Murray asknd Bideau. 
"Yes," lw answnn~d. in tlw silent, packed courtroom. 
llidPau, (,2, insistml thn rob­lwry-murder was unplanrwd, and took shape as lw rnllected, at I1J, on his povPrty and lack of' prospects as a black man in segregated Lake Charles. 
"To say I was unhappy is an understatnnwnt," Bideau said. "I was miserable, I was despnr­ate for change. I f'nlt trapped. I made tlw mistakn of' fooling sorry for mysnlf. I felt I need1~d a nnw lif'o. Go someplace, start all ovtw. DiiTerPnt world, world wlwre I might matter." 
Under questioning from Murray, Hideau said nothing that had happened to him justi­fied what he did to Ferguson in 
1961. 
Prosecutors say that despite the renown he has received as a journalist, Hideau is a cold­blooded killer undeserving of 
n~lease. 
They use·d testimony from earlier trials and Hideau's own words in arguing for a fourth murder conviction and a life 
st~ntenee. 
Originally sentenced to death for Ferguson's murder, Hideau was spared in the 1970s when the Supreme Court declared the death penalty unconstitu­tional. Meanwhile, he made a name f'or himself as part of' a team that earned critical acelaim for the state peniten­tiary's prison magazine, "The Angolite." 
llis first two convictions were overturned on appeal. I lis third stuck until 2000, when a feder­al court said he was entitled to a fourth trial because blacks were excluded from the grand jury that indicted him. 
State pardon boards have recommended clemency four times. But Hideau's bid for dmnency from a no-parole life sentence has been denied by two governors in the faee of stilT opposition from tlw vie­tim's family and Lake Charles authorities. 

-----·~----------------------, 
Thursday, January 13, 2005 The Observer +NATIONAL NEWS page 11 


Gates gives libraries nearly $11 million 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The philan­thropic organization established by Mierosoft Chairman Bill Gates and his wife is giving nearly $11 million to public libraries in 37 states and the District of Columbia to buy computers and software and pay for faster Internet connections. 
The cash grants from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, expected to be announced Thursday, were being matched partially with other money from state and federal sources. 
The grants were intended to ensure that public libraries, fre­quently squeezed by tight budg­ets, can continue offering patrons free access to technology. 
As many as 14 million Americans use the Internet at public libraries, including a dis­proportionately high number of blacks, Indians and Hispanics, according to U.S. government fig­ures. 
Use of computers at libraries is especially pronounced in poor neighborhoods. 
In California, computer users in libraries include seniors sending e-mails to relatives, children working on homework and tourists sending messages home. 
"We are the first resort for Internet access, particularly in low-income areas," said Susan Hildreth, the state librarian in California, which got $416,800 from the Gates Foundation. "People expect computers to be available at the library, at the highest technological level." 
The foundation established by Gates, the billionaire software pioneer whose earliest technolo­gy experiences took place in school computer labs, gave "Staying Connected" grants last year to states that included the 13 not in this year's giving. 
Since 1998, the foundation has given an estimated $250 million to buy 47,000 computers at 11,000 public libraries across the country, said Martha Choe, direc­tor of the organization's Global Libraries project. 
The grants do not require libraries to buy any technology associated with Microsoft prod­ucts. 
Robert Reed Jr., who was para­lyzed in a car accident, visits his library in Ontario, Ore., every day it's open to work on college class­es online toward his science degree. 
Reed said that his home com­puter and its Internet connection are too slow for the work and that library computers -paid for by the Gates Foundation -make it largely unnecessary for him to travel 60 miles to his college campus in Boise, Idaho. Reed, 53, said he expects to graduate in March 2006. 
Hacker reads confidential e-111ails 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -A hacker broke into a wireless carrier's network over at least seven months and read e-mails and personal computer files of hundreds of customers, including the Secret Service agent investigating the hack­er, the government said Wednesday. 
The hacker obtained an internal Secret Service memo­randum and part of a mutual assistance legal treaty from Russia. The documents con­tained "highly sensitive infor­mation pertaining to ongoing ... criminal cases," according to court records. 
The break-in targeted the network for Bellevue, Wash.­based T-Mobile USA, which has 16.3 million customers in the United States. It was dis­covered during a broad Secret Service investigation, "Operation Firewall," which targeted underground hacker organizations known as Shadowcrew, Carderplanet and Darkprofits. 
Nicolas Lee Jacobsen, 21, of Santa Ana, Calif., a computer engineer, has been charged with the break-in in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles. Investigators said they traced the hacker's online activities to a hotel in Williamsport, N.Y., where Jacobsen was staying. 
Jacobsen, who was arrested in October in California, has been released on a $25,000 bond posted by his uncle, who was ordered to keep his own personal computer locked up so Jacobsen couldn't use it. 
The hacker was able to view the names and Social Security numbers of 400 customers, all of whom were notified in writ­ing about the break-in, T­Mobile said. It said customer credit card numbers and other financial information never were revealed. 
"Safeguarding T-Mobile cus­tomer informa­
not have been using his per­sonal handheld computer for government work. Cavicchia, a respected investigator who has specialized in tracking hackers, was a T-Mobile cus­tomer who coincidentally was investigating the T-Mobile break-in, according to court documents and a Secret Service spokesman, Jonathan Cherry. 
Cavicchia, who won the Secret Service's medal of valor for his actions in the Sept. 11, 2001, terror attacks, 
resigned to

"Safeguarding T­
tion is a top pri­work in the pri­ority for the com­Mobile customer vate sector. He pany," said a information is a told The 
spokesman, Peter Associated Press 
top priority for the
Dobrow. He said he was not 
company.,,
T-Mobile discov­asked to leave ered the break-in and said he was late in 2003 and cleared during
Peter Dobrow 
"immediately an internal

T-Mobile spokesman
took steps that prevented any further access to this system." 
Court records said the hack­er had access to T-Mobile cus­tomer information from at least March through October last year. 
An online offer in March 2004, traced to Jacobsen, claimed hackers could look up the name, Social Security number, birth date and pass­words for voice mails and e­mails for T-Mobile customers, court records said. 
The Secret Service said its agent, Peter Cavicchia, should 
investigation 
into whether he had improperly revealed sen­sitive information or violated agency rules. 
The case against Jacobsen was first reported by the Web site Security Focus, which is owned by Symantec Corp. 
Cherry, the Secret Service spokesman, said the agency's own e-mail servers were not affected by the T-Mobile break-in. "The account was a personal account of a Secret Service agent that was for a time compromised," Cherry said. 





The Observer 
is currently accepting applications for the 

2005-06 Editor-in-Chief 
Applicants must submit BOTH a resume and at least an 8-PAGE proposal explaining their interest in the position and their plans for running the newspaper. 
Applications are due Monday, January 17 by 5 p.m. 
COMPLETED APPLICATIONS CAN BE SUBMITTED TO THE OBSERVER'S OFFICE IN THE BASEMENT OF SOUTH DINING HALL. 
Contact Editor-in-Chief Matt Lazar at 1-4542 for more information. 


THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 12 Thursday, January 13, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

South shores, bears and automobiles 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports 
Claire Heininger Pat Leonard Jen Howling Chris Khorey Peter Leahy Steve Coyer 

What are you planning to do to aid
Viewpoint Scene Sarah Vabulas Kenyatta Storin the tsunami victims? Graphics Illustrator Kelly MacDonald Katie Knorr 
Vote by today at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
PO. Box Q, Nmrc Dame. IN 46556 014 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lo·l<!r 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Me!(hanne Downes Mike Flanagan 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR Joe Hertler 
NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegardcn ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PIIOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHIC~ EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AI> DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Nkn CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obscad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
('i74) 631-4541 obsmc@>nd.cdu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4.324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsncws.1@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 vicwpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 6.~ I -4543 >ports. I @nd.cdu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 63 I -4540 sccne.1@)nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.cdu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phnto@nd.cdu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du l.1c and Saint Mary's Colk·gt•. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed hy policies of the administm!ion ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refirse adwnisements based on content. 
Tlw news is reported as accuratdy and objectively as pos.,ihlc. Unsigned editorials represt•nt the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in l.hid; Man:tging Editor, A,siswnt Managing Editor and department editors. Cornmt·nt:rries, letters and wlumns present the views of dw :turhors and not necessarily those ofThe 
Obs~rver. 
Vitwpninr space is available to all readers. The free t•xpres.,ion ofall opinions through letters is encour.Iged. Lt•tters to the Fditor must be signed and must indudc contact inlcmnatinn. 
Qrwtions rrgarding Obsavrr po/ici(S should b~ directed to F4itor iu ChirfMatt LoZIIr. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Tiu~ Ohlcrver (USPS 'S?'J l100UJ ta pubt,shc:d M(>fll;lay duough Friday uapr during rum .tnd vJc-~lion pa-icxk. A aubkription w The O~rvtt is $100 fut Oil¢ ac.u:lcmic ycm $'5-'5-lur one ~mtstcr. · 
The: Oh~ervcr i• publl~t .c: POSTMASTER 0.!4 Sumh IJming llafl Send addn:s, corm:ti\>lts to. Nunc: [)•me, IN 4f•'i%·0779 Thc0b'>C!Mt ('crultti~.U po•r~c p1ud .u Nortt D.unt P.O. Bmc 779 .md 11dditiunal mailing offices. 021 Smuh Dirtin& HJ.ll 
Noel'( Do~m~. IN 46<;~6·0779 
'llll~ llllllf:rVt:r I~ .1 mnnhc:r ot' rhc A.oc1afetl Pro.,. All I'CIUtKIUctinn r•Wm..ut ~rYcd. 

My, how quickly December passed us by. When I was a kid there was no month I looked forward to more than the twelfth one. My holly-jolly month of eelebration started with a bang on the Dee. 6 when Saint Nicholas' Day Bob Masters eame around. 
St. Niek. the I Fall on the Floor Catholic saint and I Laughing upon whom the legend of Santa Claus is based, was the son of wealthy devout Christians. After his parents died during his youth, St. Nicholas 
gave away his entire inheritance to aid the needy. lie was especially known for his love of children, his devotion to the sick and suffering and for his tendency to secretly leave bags of gold coins in needy homes, tossing them -it is said -into shoes and stockings left ncar open windows. The practice of giving gifts during the Christmas season is largely based on the many legends of St. Nicholas which celebrate his uncommon generosity. 
Of course, I didn't know any of this when I was a boy. What I knew was that if I lefl my boots by our front door and went to bed, when I woke up there would be mountains of candy inside of them. There'd be gold coins, too, but not of the monetary kind. No, for this young boy there was something much more important than money: milk chocolate. 
My sugar high would wear ofT around another December milestone: my youngest brother's birthday. As nice as this day was for him, it was even better for me. Invariably, he would receive gifts that would, by hook or crook, bflcome community property. This particularly applied to video games and movies which always had a way of making their way out of his pri­vate stock into the hands of his two older brothers. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

li MU~\ gE;l ToUGI-\ lo Cof\1\e UP WITH \DeAc; foR 
CA~\oON~ E-\1~\1 
By the approach of Christmas Break, my December bliss was at a fever piteh. It was just a hop, skip and jump to Christmas Day, where I quickly unwrapped and discarded boxes of sweaters to get to toys, toys. toys. 
As it's been said, all things change. Over the past four Decembers here at Notre Dame, I've spent most of the month hiding away high up in the stacks of the Hesburgh Library. My boots lilled with candy became note­books filled with Jonathan Swift and Alexander Pope, neither of whom is nearly as delicious. Since I've been away my little brother has gotten much stronger and can easily fend ofT 

my attempts at girt piracy. And home at 35 miles per hour in on Christmas Day these days eornpletn white-out condi-I quietly unwrap and dis­tions. In a lifetime of living card toys to get to in the Midwest, I had sweaters, sweatrws, never SfHm driving condi­sweaters. tions so poor. What our 
But rather than dwell friend's dad saw, how­on what used to be and evnr, was two boys who what might have been, needed to get homn. I'd rather pass along a It may seem like a simple December simple story-a story. straightforward act of 
My brother and I charity -but the were invited to a English poet William Chicago Bears game on Wordsworth said that the 11rst Sunday of the best part of a man's Christmas Break by a life are his :'little, name­dorm-mate and friend of less. unrenwmberfld acts of ours. We hopped on the South kindness and love." At the 
Shore and we were immediately greeted with an hour long delay in Michigan City. When the electric train lost power, producing the holdup. we laughed. It was like a scene out of one of my favoritfl holiday films, "Planes, Trains and Automobiles." We were a real-life .Steve Martin and John Candy and we'd have a good story to tell when we got back. 
But life wasn't finished imitating art. As we stood outside of Solider Field after the game waiting in the dark for our train home on a night with hnavy snowfall and a high temperaturn of live degrees. I experi1mcnd something much more painful and humiliating than the Bears' 24-5 loss. 
The South Shore, our trusty and safe ticknt back. sped right past us. As I stood there feeling hopelessly alone and panicking as to how we'd get home, my brother's cell phone rang. It was our friend and his dad. Thny had seen our predicament and were ready to drive us back to South Bend. We were c1~rtainly not expecting such an uneommon act of kindness and it prov1~d even more ~~xtraordinary when 
we ended up driving most of the way 
core of every seemingly simple kindness like this is a wealth of great love. Saint Nicholas knew that. This past month my brother and I witnessnd it first hand. 
Bob Masters is a senior English major and co-president of the 1/umor Artists club. 1/e can be contacted at amasters@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
.-~f'\VfFL.e ~~UFFI..e ­>1-1 11 F Fle 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Colleges hate geniuses, just as convents hate saints." 
Ralph Waldo Emerson poet 
Ne\leR 
MIND. 



r-THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Thursday, January 13, 2005 
page 13 
What Mario wrought 

Now, as it happens, I do write these columns the night 
Peter Wicks 

before they're due, after consuming an epic quantity of 
coffee -the precise dosage is known to caffeine 
cognoscenti as a "defibrillator." But this isn't how the Englishman 
columns are created; it's how they are finished. Each Abroad 
installment.of Englishman Abroad is the culmination of 
weeks of painstaking research. Sometimes I even play 
video games. 
To be a truly successful cultural analyst, one's writing must be grounded in a thorough knowledge of what one is writing about. And so, this Christmas, after finishing Star, Pamela Anderson's roman aclef, I celebrated the birth of Christ with some good old fashioned simulated violence. 
I won't go into the specifics. At the time the game was very absorbing, but only a few weeks later I find that I have already forgotten most of the details, although I do remember saving the world, possibly the universe. 
(You're welcome.) 

It had been many years since I last engaged in any serious gaming-I'm not even sure whether "game" was a verb back then. So the first thing that struck me was the production values. The game looked like a movie, which made it a lot more entertaining than the movies that play like video games. Resident Evil: Apocalypse looked as if they had shot the whole thing in slow motion and used special effects to speed up the scenes with talking. They needn't have bothered, but the dialogue still sounded like David Mamet com­pared to the script for the film adaptation of Tekken, in which one of the characters actually says "Why are you so angry? Is it because your father threw you off that cliff?", a line that's so stupid it glows in the dark. 
But the inanity of modern movies is a subject for another day, and the tech­nological advances of video games are only a superficial development com­pared to the most important change, which is their audience. That's the real new thing; video games for grown-ups. 
By the time I was in my mid-teens video games already felt like something I should have put behind me, moving on to more mature (and hence girl­attracting) pursuits, such as practicing the electric guitar and writing angst­ridden unmelodies for a band with a name like "Ennui." 
When people talk about recent changes in adolescence they usually focus on its beginning. Literally, an adolescent is someone who is in the process of becoming an adult (a social, not a biological category). As sociologists have recently begun to notice, kids are getting older younger (the sociologists are, as usual, about a decade behind the better funded market researchers who by now have abbreviated the phenomena to KGOY). 
"Tweens" is now the accepted term for the increasing number of 10-year­olds who ape the sophisticated clothing and entertainment of 16-year-olds. It used to be said that the definition of a conservative is a liberal with a teenage daughter; these days, thanks to tweens, the witticism is out date. 
We are still waiting for the vocabulary to describe the fact that adolescence is also being extended in the other direction; if 10 is the new 16, then 30 is the new 20. 
The strange thing about men in their mid-20s playing video games is that these days there isn't anything strange about it. Men's magazines such as FHM ("lifestyle" is the accepted euphemism for the category) contain pictures of pneumatic celebrities and video game reviews and see nothing odd about placing them side by side. 
Video games are still dominantly, if not exclusively, a male pursuit, but there are other common juxtapositions which suggest that matters are simi­lar for men and women. It isn't at all unusual for women to have fluffy toys on their bed and an issue of Cosmopolitan beside it. The magazine will proba­bly be promising, in large capital letters, to reveal the secrets of its new mul­tiple-orgasm-weight-loss plan, which will be to all intents and purposes indis­tinguishable from the one it offered the previous month, and the month before that (every purchase of Cosmopolitan is, as Samuel Johnson said of remarriage, a triumpl ··hope over experience). 
Dean Inge speculatt hat when our first parents were driven out of para­dise, Adam said to Eve, ·'My dear, we live in an age of transition." Well, we too live in an age of transition, and if we weren't so close to these changes it would be easier to see how remarkably rapid they have been. It will be a long time however, before we know for sure what their impact will be or whether this new arrangement is even sustainable. 
Now, if you'll excuse me, I have to save the world. 
Peter Wicks is a graduate student in the Philosophy Department. His new year's resolution is to become a being ofpure energy and to rule over the uni­verse with justice and mercy. Peter can be contacted at pwicks@nd. edu. This evening he will be hosting the student stand-up comedy show at Legends. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
";'•. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Leprechaun Legion shows pride 
This past Monday's men's basket­ball game should have been a truly eye-opening experience. 
I am not only referring to the fact that the Irish competed well in a tough fought battle against one of the best teams in the nation. More impor­tantly, I want to bring attention to one would wait outside the JACC spending an entire day freezing out in the cold simply to stand by idly, arms folded, and remain utterly silent as the Irish give their all battling on the hardwood. 
The Legion should not be scruti­
nized alone, but the entire student 

the state of our students' section is accountable for the 
spirit. 
The blame for this loss does not mainly rest with the refer­ees, the coaches, or the players. Monday night the Fighting Irish exhibited the greatest amount of heart and hustle so far this year. Instead, the brunt of the blame rests with the Passive Irish -the stu­dents. 
So far this year the stu­dent section at the men's games has been pitiful at best. The turnout for the recent game against the Orange was easily the best so far this year. Even more "impres­
lack of spirit. Every stu­dent in attendance 
should be hoarse and sweating after the first minute of 
play due to excessive cheer­ing. During the entire game 
the JACC should be deafening. It 
is an embar­rassment when a handful of visitors clad in orange who are shoved up in 
the rafters can silence the student 
section. The most saddening dis­play of all, though, is the masses of students that leave before the final note of the alma mater has been played, 

sively," the entire student only further demonstrating 
section was standing for the whole game. These facts, though, should be given for every game. 
Although there were plenty of stu­dents at the game wearing green, how many were truly supporting their school and team being the best Irish fan possible? 
Supposedly the ideal Notre Dame fan is one on the floor in the true Leprechaun Legion. This bunch sure­ly was on a level above the rest of the student section, but that should not be taken as too high of a compliment. Everyone who is down there should be constantly jumping, pounding on the risers, and cheering nonstop whether the Irish are up or down by an incredible margin. 
It is inconceivable as to why some-

the true nature of such alleged Notre Dame fans. 
All of this, however, does not need to remain as it is. We should not be placing blame elsewhere until we look at ourselves. The JACC should be one of the most feared and hated are­nas for visiting teams not only because of the talented Fighting Irish, but even more so because of its spir­ited student section. 
Hopefully the student section will undergo a vast improvement by this Saturday and show St. John's how intimidating Irish fans can be. 


THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 14 Thursday, January 13, 2005 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
Kelly Clarkson breaks into pop rock 
By BECCA SAUNDERS As•istaut Scene Editor 
Movn ovM Avril and Ashlee, there is a nnw pop rock princess on the s ~~ ~~ n n . Kn II y <: Ia r k s o n i s a n a rn n nvnryonn has lward. unlike most of lwr songs, which until now WPrl\ not really worth listening too. In her sneond album "BrPakaway," Clarkson rnvnals a new sidn of her­snlf and a grnatnr dnpth in her musical ability as an artist. The for­mer wannabP pop princess has inenHtsnd her breadth as she taek­lns songs with much harder rhythms and a darker side of her unques­tionably strong voice. 
Clarkson, the winner of the first "American Idol" contest, released a platinum album after the finale of "American Idol" in 2002. Thn album, called "Thankful" cnrtainly had fans, but Clarkson's true talent and musical persona was still great­ly called into question. "Breakaway" is an answer to the cynics who did not believe Clarkson 
to be a true "Idol." In "Breakaway" Clarkson proves that she is a mature musician who has suffi­ciently stretched hers11lf and her music in her second album. and the 
results  are  nothing  less  than  
impressive.  
The  first  two  singlns  from  

"Breakaway" sum up the contnnt of the album in a couple of ways. While the singles, "Breakaway" and "Since U Be1m Gone" arc both great songs, they are very different from one another. "Breakawav." which was featured in "The ·Princess Diaries 2," is a ballad backed by a strong melody that showcases the diva side of Clarkson's powerful voice. Written by Avril Lavigne, "Breakaway" pretty much sounds like a slow track from an Avril Lavigne album, but with a much more powerful voice that was meant to sing ballads. The song talks about a dreamer that "grew up in a small town" and eventually leaves to pursue her dreams. Singing of the difficultly of leaving to do so Clarkson sings, "I'll spread my wings I And I'll learn how to fly I Though it's not easy I To tell you goodbye I I gotta take a risk, take a chance make a change I And break away." The lyrics are cheesy, but any slight fan of the pop genre can­not help but get caught up in the emotion of this song. There are a handl"ul of ballads backed by strong keys with Clarkson belting out huge notes and crescendos on the album. 

Conversely, th.ere are also a hand­ful of songs like "Since U Been Gone," which is a guitar driven rock song with a pop flavor. Hardly sen­timental, "Since U Been Gone" is a song about newfound freedom after being dumped by a boyfriend. The song's energy is undeniable; "Since U Been Gone" is certainly one of .the strongest songs on the album. 
The new direction of Clarkson most likely has something to do with her choice of writing partners 

and producers for "Because of You" and "Addicted," that being the for­mer members of Evanescence Ben Moody and Dave Hodges. This also may explain why in "Because of You" and especially in "Addicted" it is hard to tell if you are listening to Amy Lee or Kelly. 
Overall, "Breakaway" is a good album that shows great potential for Kelly Clarkson. llowev1n, Clarkson's true musie style is not elear arter listening to "Breakaway" as so many different paths are explored throughout the album. "Breakaway" is precisely what the title suggests for Clarkson, a break from the world of pop and into the world of rock, but how much far­ther is Clarkson going to travel? Only album three will tell. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu 
GTA music better suited for game 
By MARIA SMITH Sct•nt• Editor 
Fans of "Grand Theft Auto: San Andrnas" havP eagerly awaited tho rnlnasn of its olTieial soundtrack and thn morn inelusive box set. The soundtracks from "Grand Theft Auto: Vice City" wore received enthusiastically, and it was hoped that. t.he new soundtrack would 
reach the same heights. 

The smaller ofricial soundtrack condenses highlights from the hit video game into a two-dise set with an edectic mix of hip-hop, funk, country and other genres. The col­lection of older hits from Hage Against the Machine, 2Pac, Public Ennmy and others is obviou·sly designed to take fans baek to the rough streets of Los Angeles in the early 1990s when the artists were in 

their heyday. The expanded box set, with eight COs with songs from the radio stations of the fictional Los Santos, is aimed at the real fans of the game that want as much of the music as they can get. 
Many of the songs on the official soundtrack are excellent in their own right. This is inevitable with a soundtrack that has picked its mate­rial from the artists who have already stood the test of the past decade or longer and remained pop­ular. The problem is that the collec­tion isn't really good enough to jus­tify buying the soundtrack instead or investing in entire CDs by the acclaimed artists it features, nor does it carry the bragging rights of owning the box set. Fans of the game could certainly make a worse purchase, but it isn't a classic. 
The box set offers a wider selec­tion of less common music, which might be good for people who want to delve into more obscure music, but many of the tracks are not of the same quality as the hits on the condensed soundtrack. The discs also include imitation radio com­mercials and station identifications, which probably entertain some peo­ple but will be extremely irritating to others. Fans will be disappointed to learn that many of the songs fea­tured in the game are not included in the box set. Some of the harder hip-hop has been removed, along with several others songs probably removed to savn space, and other songs included are not aetually the same versions featured in the game. 
Anyone who buys the set will probably not like at lnast some of the featured genres, and will end up paying for musie they will nnver really want to hoar. Most fans have one or two favorite stations, and will not be lik11ly to listen to the oth­ers mueh. Badio Los Santos modern hip-hop is a common favorite but has been cut to a mere five songs for the box set, while K-Hose eoun­try is likely to irritate anyone who is not a determined country fan. Annoying radio stations of various genres are readily available in most places for free, and people who spend the $50 to buy the box set will probably have to 'admit they only bought it for the sake of owning it and not for the quality of the music. 
The songs chosen for "Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas" work well with­in the context of the game. However, as with many soundtracks, they do not stand as well on their own, especially considering the substan­dard quality of several discs in the box set. Leave the box set on the shelf and save your money for the next big game. 
Contact Maria Smith at msmith4@nd.edu 
. . ' ; 
~ 
----~-------~-----------------------------------------'-~ 


THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Thursday, January 13, 2005 page 15 
ALBUM REVIEWS 
Mario shows promising future 
By COURTNEY WILSON Scene Music Critic 
B&B songster Mario is back with a new look and a fresh style. Jlis sophomore album. appropriately titled "Turning Point," represents a maturing not only in his style, but his musical ambitions as well. At the age of 15, Mario released his first album, and gained a squad of teen follow­ers with the rmnake of rapper Biz Markie's ".Just a Friend." Now, at the age of 18, Mario attempts to extend his young fan basn for a slightly older market. 
"Lot Me Love You," the album's tirst sin­gle, reflects somewhat of a progression from his previous songs about puppy love to a more mature, relationship kind of love. The new song has already dominated radio airwaves nationwide, pushing record sales sky high, and allowing the single and the album to climb their way up the Billboard charts. 
Seeking the help of Scott Storch, the ever-popular producer of such recent hits enjoyable party-like version featuring Jadakiss and T.l. Besides these few songs, Mario does not need much help in the making of this record. His smooth and soulful vocals are enough to carry the album, but nostalgic lyrics and catchy beats are what make this record an obvi­ous hit. 

In addition to "Let Me Love You," which is easily the best song on the entire CD, songs like "How Could You," and the reg­gae beat "Girl I Need" recall an Usher-like sentiment to which many can easily relate. "How Could You" is reminiscent of a romance gone awry by what Mario refers to as a "ghetto karma sutra." "Like Me Real Hard" is fun with lyrics that repeat, "You don't have to love me, just like me real hard." 
The CD undeniably sets out for a love­like theme, but maintains its youthful appeal with songs like "Couldn't Say No" and "Nike's Fresh Out the Box." You know Mario is not going to get too serious on you when he compares a new love interest to the feeling of opening a fresh pair of kicks. 
Mario has come a long way from the young cornrowed kid we have seen on pre­vious music videos such as "Braid My Hair." In fact, the first scene of the "Let Me Love You" video shows hin1 trading in his boyish cornrows for a more mature short cut, which in a way reflects the change in his music. Starting from a young age, Mario has successfully paved his way from belting out karaoke tunes with his mom and impromptu performances at the local barbershop, to a lucky break with music mogul Clive Davis. Mario surpasses his debut album "Just a Friend 2002," and brings a superior thirteen track CD chock full of head bopping hits on "Turning Point." 
Contact Courtney Wilson at cwilson6@nd.edu 
Turning Point Mario 
]-Records 


as Beyonce Knowles' "Baby Boy" and Fat Joe's club favorite "Lean Back," Mario has succeeded in creating an inspired album with soulful vocals and infectious beats. 
Great things can be expected from the H&B, semi llip-llop star. Often compared to leading songster Usher Haymond, Mario makes reference to these similarities on the CO's first track, "18," featuring J­Hecord label friend Cassidy. In it, he explains that he still has time to catch up to the older star, who coincidentally scored his first hit song at the same age of 15. If you insist on comparing the two stars, however, it must be said that "Boom," track number three of the record, is a pale comparison to the Usher favorite, "Yeah!" that it seeks to reproduce. "Boom" attempts to pick up on the same clubby like sound of "Yeah!" by featuring the same Lil Jon as well as the Ludacris-ly comparable rapper Juvenille. Between the three artists, however, none bring enough capacity to save the song. 
Also featured on the CD is a remix of "Let Me Love You," which offers an equally 


Architecture an elfin delight 
By MATTHEW SOLARSKI Scene Music Critic 
Once-adorned pine trees lie dead on the sides of suburban roads, the snow has takPn on a loathsome muddy hue, and Target is hawking "Xmas 2004" stationary at lJO p~~rcent off -yes, the holidays are over. Now the big question on everyone's mind should of course be: what are the nlvns to do? Why, sing, surely! During the oll'-season, however, the elf who calls for another round of "Carol of the Bells" is fix­ing to get socked in his little elf nose. And so, the elves must venture to create new sounds, utilizing, naturally, the bevy of left­over musical instruments that never made it into Santa's sack. While these post-yule­tide eonfections have yet to grace the ears of a soul south of the Pole, chances are 
they sound a lot like Architecture in Helsinki. 
With elfin voices and childlike. whimsy, the eight boys and girls of Architecture in Helsinki have pieced together an excep­tional debut album. Each song on "Fingers Crossed" plays out like a pre-school class­room vignette starring delicate elf chil­dren, who have culled their vast imagina­tions for quirks and melodies sure to molli­fy even the most peevish of listeners. From the irresistible one-two punch of synthesiz­er and handclaps on the groovetastic opener "One Heavy February," to the aus­tere closing organ chords on "Vanishing," this record is an absolute charmer. 
Architecture employ a smattering of instruments to create their inspired magi­pop, including glockenspiel, clarinet, recorder, tuba, and quite possibly several of the convoluted hybrid musical toys pop­ular among the Whos in Whoville. The songs are relatively short and cater to those with even shorter attention spans, often consisting of several tiny "move­ments" within a single two-and-a-half­minute track. Architecture caps off this sugary recipe with fragile, pixie-like female vocals, and a male vocalist who is clearly the Will Ferrell among the elves, sounding more like a boy in the throes of puberty. While in certain contexts this would surely spell disaster, in the case of Architecture it gels surprisingly well. 

If the arrangements are somewhat child­ish, the lyrics are wildly precocious. In "Souvenirs," the vocalist muses melan­cholically, "We've got souvenirs, so yester­day can't mean too much." The record's centerpiece, the riotous "The Owls Go," contains a lyrical transformation worthy of the finest wordsmiths, as "finding a replacement with a heart sedated, I'll for­get you" later morphs into "attic in a base­ment with a knife serrated, I'll protect you." A bizarre breed of elf children these are. 

Although their name might lead one to assume otherwise, Architecture reside far from wintry Finl<ind -and even further from the North Pole, as it were -hailing from Australia, of all places. The octet has garnered comparisons to several of indie­pop's finest collectives, including Belle & Sebastian and Broken Social Scene. With a brand new record set to arrive in March, Architecture in Helsinki is poised to enter the hearts of America's youth well before they go a-caroling once more. 
Contact Matthew Solarski at msolarsk@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 13, 2005 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Texas A&M upsets No. 10 Texas at home, 74-63 
Aggies move to 12-1, their best start since the 1959-60 season 
Associated Press COLLI\GE STATION, Texas­When Billy Gillispin took over as hnad coach at Texas A&M in March, he found a team lacking size, experinnce and depth. flo soon found out, however, that the Aggies did have some talent despite their woeful record l'rorn thn previous sea­son. Aeie Law, OIW or those talent­ed leftovers. had 24 points and six assists, freshman Joseph .Jones added 13 points and 10 rebounds and A&M ended an IS-game Big 12 losing streak with an upset of No. 10 Texas on Wednesday night. "It's about having the right guys," Gillispie said, smiling. "It's no magic formula. The story is not about mn ... it's about those guys in the white jerseys. Tlw sky's the limit on what you can achieve." Gillispie has the Aggies achieving way beyond what many thought was possible at a school that has always treated basketball as a distraction after football season. A&M has fin­ished last in the Big 12 three of the past four seasons. Tho Aggics (12-1, 1-1) arc off to their best start since 1959­60, and Gillispie has made the bnst debut in school history. Before a school-record crowd of 12,811, A&M ended the Longhorns' 10­game winning streak in 

No. 1 Illinois 90, Penn St. 64 
CIIAMPAIGN, Ill. -Luther Head's eyes lit up as soon as he saw Penn State was playing zone defense. 
lie finished with five of top­ranked Illinois' school-record 15 3-pointers and scored 19 points in a victory that tied the school record for consecutive wins at 17. 
Dee Brown also has five 3s and finished with 15 points for the Illini (17 -0, 3-0 Big Ten). 
The record-winning streak was set by the 1988-89 team that was the last from Illinois to reach the Final Fo'ur. Illinois also became the 15th Division I school to reach 1,500 victories. 
"When teams play zone, there's always open shots for me, Dee and Deron (Williams)," llead said. "We just like to step up and try to show these teams that we are good shooters." 
The lllini took control with a 16-0 first-half run, built their lead to 16 points at halftime and were up 90-60 with 1:57 to go. 
Penn State (6-1 0, 0-3) lost its fourth straight game. Coach Ed DeChellis left without talking to reporters so his team could beat a line of thunderstorms out of town. 

No. 2 Kansas 71, Iowa St. 66 
AMES, Iowa -Wayne Simien came back just in time to keep Kansas perfect. 
Keith Langford scored 18 points and Simien returned from a four-game absence to make some big plays that helped the second-ranked 
Jayhawks escape 
with a victory over 
Iowa State. 

College Station and improve its record at Reed Arena to 12-0  "It feels real good to get the first Big 12 victory."  "We did what we had to do," Simien said. "Losing here last year, we had a  
this season.  long bus ride home  
The Aggies also knocked ofT their first Top  Acie Law Texas A&M guard  and that was hard." Simien, a presea­ 
Ten  foe,  and  son All-America,  
fourth overall,  hadn't played since  

since beating Texas in 1982. undergoing surgery on his left 
"It feels real good to get the thumb Dec. 20. Earlier in the lirst Big 12 victory," said Law, a week, coach Bill Self had rated sophomore point guard who Simien's chances of playing at 1 suffered through last season's percent. But he was the first 
7-21 record. "A Top Ten team player out when the starting comes in ... that's a perfect lineups were introduced, wear­opportunity to show everyone ing a soft cast to protect the what we can do." thumb. 
P.J. Tucker led the Longhorns Just having him on the floor (12-3, 1-1) with 18 points and would have been a boost for the night rebounds and freshman Jayhawks (12-0, 2-0 Big 12). LaMarcus Aldridge added 12 but Simien did more than just points and eight rebounds. show up against a team that 
Despite getting off to such an rarely loses at home. He scored impressive start, A&M had gen­13 points in 37 minutes, erated little attention mostly grabbed nine rebounds and because of a nonconference sparked an 8-0 run that put schedule that ineluded games Kansas ahead to stay after Iowa against Prairie View A&M, State had rallied from eight Texas-Permian Basin and down to take a 54-52 lead. Trinity, a Division III school. "It felt great," Simien said. "It was almost a game-time deci­sion whether I would play. They tried different casts and the ref­erees approved the one I wore. It was a bit bulky, but shooting­wise, I was fine." 
No. 3 North Carolina 91, No. 8 Georgia Tech 69 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. -North 
Carolina shot only 41 percent, 
had 19 turnovers and failed to 
reach 100 points for the first 
time in four games. Coach Roy 
Williams described the effort as 
"ugly," and most of his players 
concurred. 
Imagine how Georgia Tech 
felt. 
Jawad Williams led a bal­
anced attack with 18 points and 
the third-ranked Tar Heels 
rolled to another impressive 
victory over No. 8 Georgia 
Tech. 
"Today wasn't the prettiest game," Roy Williams said. "It was one of those ugly games, where you've got to score more points than the other team." 
Marvin Williams had 14 points and Rashad McCants and Sean May each added 12 for North Carolina (14-1, 3-0 Atlantic Coast Conference), which has won 14 straight since an opening loss to Santa Clara. Point guard Raymond Felton was suspended for that game because he played in an non-sanctioned summer league game, and with him on the court, the Tar Heels have had few challenges. 
"I feel like I'm the leader of the team," Felton said. "I feel like I'm the one that gets every­body going. I'm the floor gener­a.1" 
The Yellow Jackets (11-3, 2­
1) certainly didn't provide much of a test. Playing without injured guard B.J. Elder for the third straight game, Georgia Tech led only at 1-0, quickly fell behind and never recovered. Jarrett Jack had 24 points and Luke Schenscher finished with 13. 
"They're an outstanding team, maybe the best team in the country," Yellow Jackets coaeh Paul Hewitt said. "But we had some guys not play as well as they're capable of playing. It's one of those things." 
With one matchup against a Top Ten opponent out of the way, North Carolina can turn its attention to Saturday's game at No. 4 Wake Forest. It will be the first meeting ever with both teams in the top five. 
''I'm going to enjoy this one," Roy Williams said. "Georgia Tech is a big-time freakin' team." 
Felton and the other starters had plenty of help from the bench in this one, led by Marvin Williams. In the first half. the Tar Heels' reserves outscored their counterparts 21-0, and it was much the same after the break until both coaches cleared the benches. 
A 10-0 run that was capped by Felton's 3-pointer put North Carolina ahead 17-5, its first double-digit lead of the game. 
"We started off the first cou­ple of possessions fine, but every knows you have to play the whole game," Jack said. "That's the one thing we didn't do, we didn't play hard for 40 minutes." 
No. 18 Cincinnati 84, East Carolina 78 

GREENVILLE, N.C. -This was not the way Bob Huggins wanted Cincinnati to head into a difficult stretch of the sched­ule. 
Jason Maxiell had 24 points and eight rebounds to help the 18th-ranked Bearcats hold off East Carolina, a win that saw the Bearcats alternate between dominant and disinterested while nearly blowing a 20-point second-half lead. 
Eric Hicks added 12 points for the Bearcats (14-1, 3-0 Conferenee USA), who have won three straight since losing to top-ranked Illinois. Jihad Muhammad also had 12 points and several key plays to help the Bearcats turn away rallies by East Carolina (5-1 0, 0-3). 

Corey Rouse had 21 points and 13 rebounds for the Pirates, who fell to 0-7 all-time against the Bearcats. Mike Cook added 19 points. 
The Bearcats have to hope this was an aberration heading into Saturday's game with No. 19 Louisville. That opens a three-game homestand that includes Charlotte -a confer­ence opponent that made the NCAA tournament last year ­and No.4 Wake Forest. 
"I didn't want to have to go back and try to fix things two days before we play Louisville," said Huggins, who declined to elaborate. "I was hoping that the light had come on, that we knew what we had to do, but that's apparently not the case. 
"When you have to spend your time fixing things, that takes away from your time to prepare." 
Cincinnati needed a bit of time to take control of the game, with the Pirates ­thanks partly to a rowdy home crowd -hanging in for most of the first half. But once their defense stepped up, the Bearcats had several transition scores to build a double-digit lead. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 l.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

WANTED 

Interested in a lucrative career in 
Pharmaceutical Sales? www.beapharmarep.com 
FoR SALE 
Complete working computers $125 574-286-3295. 

FoR RENT 
2·6 bedroom homes for 05-06 Walking distance from NO. MMMRentals.com 532-1408 
House for rent across from ND. Avail now and for 2005-06 school yr. Call 232-0875. 
2·6 BDRM HOMES. NOW & 2005/6. 272-6306 
CORBY PROPERTIES 2-3-4-5 bed­room homes near campus. Furnished, security systems, W/D, newer appliances, phone, cable, utilities included. $400/per student. Call Eric at 315-3215. 
CORBY PROPERTIES 5 bedroom home available second semester. Call Eric at 315-3215. 
HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BED­ROOM HOMES. GOOD CONDI­TION. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call Sean 532-1895. 
1 bdrm apt 1/2 mile to NO. $550/mo. Laundry incl. Call 283­0325 
3 bdrm north of campus, ample 
• par.king, partially furnished, many extras. Call 412-4 78-5192 for the details. 
New 4-bdrm,3-bath home.Avail 
8/05. Cathedral ceiling, fireplace, 
deluxe kitchen, skylights, 2-car 
garage, family room, 1Ox20 deck. 
Safe area. Call574-232-4527 or 
269-683-5038. 



PERSONALS 

Spring Break 2005 with STS, 
America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for group discounts. 
Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
FREELANCE ONLINE TUTORS 
Instruct 3-12 grd stdnts;lnternet connex reqd; tutor/teach exp. prefrd jobs@ brainfuse.com 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 Days $299! Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties! Panama City, Daytona $1591 Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Nassau $499! Award Winning Company! SpringBreakTravel.com 1-800-678­6386 
Fly Eagles Fly, on the road to victo­ry. Fight Eagles Fight, score a touchdown 1-2-3. Hit 'em low. Hit 'em high, and watch our Eagles fly. Fly Eagles Fly, on the road to victo­ry. E-A-G-L-E-S. EAGLES. 

Thursday, January 13, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

NDPRESENTS B A L L E T A T T H E M 0 R R s 

THEATRE 


Late Nite Catechism 2 

Presented by The Broadway Theatre league Decio Mainstage Theatre 
This sequel to the hit comedy late Night Catechism explores the concept of Catholic guilt through the character of "Sister," on old-school nun who accepts no excuses and tokes no prisoners. 
Tuesday, January 11 at 7 p.m. Wednesday, January 12 at 7 p.m. Thursday, January 13 at 7 p.m. Friday, January 14 at 8 p.m. Saturday, January 15 at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. Sunday, January 16 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. Tuesday, January 18 at 7 p.m. Wednesday, January 19 at 7 p.m. Thursday, January 20 at 7 p.m. Friday, January 21 at 8 p.m. Saturday, January 22 at 2 p.m. and 8 p.m. Sunday, January 23 at 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. 
Tickets: $30, $27 seniors, $15 all students 
Special: $5 student tickets on Tuesday, January 1I; Wednesday, January 12; and Thursday, January 73 only 
M U S c 

Music for Two Gambas and Organ 
A NOTRE DAME FACULTY PERFORMANCE 
Reyes Organ and Choral Hall Friday, January 14 at 8 p.m. Tickets $10, $8 faculty/ staff, $6 seniors, $3 a!l students 

John Blacklow Recital 
A NOTRE DAME FACULTY PERFORMANCE 
leighton Concert Hall Wednesday, January 19 at 8 p.m. Tickets $10, $8 faculty/staff, $6 seniors, 
$3 all students 

Organist Craig Cramer 
A NOTRE DAME FACULTY PERFORMANCE 
Opening Recitals on the Fritts Organ 
Reyes Organ and Choral Hall Thursday, January 20, 8 p.m Friday, January 21, 8 p.m. Saturday, January 22, 8 p.m Sunday, January 23, 4 p.m. Tuesday, January 25, 8 p.m. 
These performances are open to the public and free, but tickets must be obtained through the DeBartolo Box Office. 

The Marian Anderson String Quartet 
Presented by The Fischoff National Chamber Music Association Decio Mainstage Theatre Thursday, January 27 at 7:30 p.m. 
These performances are open to the public and free, but tickets must be obtained through the DeBartolo Box Office. 
Thursday, January 13 at 8 p.m. The Morris Performing Arts Center, downtown South Bend 
Founded over a quarter of a century ago, the St. Petersburg State Ballet Theatre is one of the most distinguished classical companies in Russia. The younger sibling of the Kirov and Bolshoi ballet companies, the St. Petersburg Ballet has presented its rich, varied performances to sold-out audiences in more than 50 countries. As part of Notre Dame's NDPresents: Live at the Morris series, the ensemble will present Sergei Prokofiev's dramatic and passionate Romeo and Juliet, choreographed by Serge Vikulov. Based on Shakespeare's famous tragedy, this very accessible three-act ballet enchants audiences with its combination of delicacy, pageantry, and lyrically sweeping melody and movement. 
Tickets: Orchestra/Mezzanine: $38, $30 faculty/staff, $25 all students 
Main Floor Rear/Boxes/First Balcony: $33, $26 faculty/staff, $22 all students 
Second and Third Balconies: $28, $22 faculty/staff, $20 all students 
To purchase tickets, call the Morris Performing Arts Center Box Office at 235-9190, or visit www.MorrisCenter.org. 
F L M 
BROWNING CINEMA Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors, $3 all student 

Tickets go on sale each Monday before the screenings. 

Motorcycle Diaries {2004) 
Thursday, January 13 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
In 1952, two young Argentines set out on a road trip to discover the real Latin America. The diverse geography they encounter begins to reflect their own shifting perspectives. As they arrive at a leper colony, the two are beginning to question the value of progress as defined by economic systems that leave so many people beyond their reach. Their experiences at the colony awoken within them the men they will later become. 

Les Choristes (The Chorus) {2004) 
Special FREE Sneak Preview of this soon·to·be-released Miramax film Friday, January 14 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
Set in 1948, a professor of music, Clement Mathieu, becomes the supervisor at a boarding school for the rehabilitation for minors. What he discovers disconcerts him -the current situation is repressive. Through the power of song, Clement tries to transform the students. 

Notre Dame Student Film Festival 
Thursday, January 20 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. Friday, January 21 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. Saturday, January 22 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. Monday, January 24 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. Tuesday, January 25 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. Wednesday, January 26 at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. 

More event information available at http://performingarts.nd.edu 
Call (574) 631·2800 for tickets and more information 
Discounted tickets are underwritten by the Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. There are a limited number of student discounts available. 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, January 13, 2005 
CBA 




Williams to play again 3 years after conviction 
Former Nets star forward to join Idaho 
Stampede 

Associated Press BOISE, Idaho -Jayson Williams signod a contraet with tho Idaho Stampede of the Continnntal Basketball Asso­eiation, and was set to play Wndnnsday night. The former NHA All-Star, who faees rnckless manslaughter charges related to a 2002 shooting at his New Jersey mansion, has said he hopes to use the CBA as a springboard for his return to the NHA. The 6-foot-1 0 forward turns 37 next month. lin quit professional basket­ball in 2000 because of knee problems. "lntnrestod NHA teams want assurances that I am fully recovered and can withstand the rigors of daily competition," Williams said in a statement Wednnsday. "The very competi­tive CBA will provide me with this opportunity." Williams was expected to play in the Stampnde's game against 
the  Yakima  Sun  Kings  
Wednesday evening.  
The  Stampede  signed  

Williams to improve its rebounding and wasn't det11rred by his legal dilliculties, said gnneral manager John Brunelle. "The best ease sce­nario would be that he per­forms really well, we win ball games, and the NBA makes him the third call up from the Stampede this season," Brunelle said. 
Williams was acquittP.d in April of aggravated manslaugh­tnr in the Feb. 14, 2002, shoot­ing death of a limousine driver, Costas "Gus" Christofi. He con­victed on four counts stemming from a failed bid to conceal the shooting. 
llis retrial on a charge of reckless manslaughter is due to begin in March. 
Williams, who called the shooting an aeeidP.nt, won't be senteneed on the four eover-up eonvictions until the remaining charge is settled. Possible sen­tenees run from probation to about five years in prison. The reekless manslaughter eharge carries a possible 10-year sen­tence. 
Williams played nine seasons for the New Jersey Nets. and Philadelphia 76ers. lie aver­aged ten or more rebounds per game in his final four NBA sea­sons." 

C.reat Food! 
C.reat Futt! 
~1 Sports Jar itt South Jettd 20+6 South Jettd Ave ~ Across frot~t Martitts Plaza 
272~1766 
fuEs: CoLLE~E N1~Hr ~ UJ 8-SPECIALS (srARTIN~ Ar $1.001 Wed: Live fRIVIA Night ~ Jrittg your teatMs ~ Prizes fHutts: UJ ~ Pet~ ttY Night ~ 1~ Specials startittg at 
9:00PM 



. .
. 
Complete a short On-Line survey and be eligible to In an ;Pij 
SBC family of companies and the University of Notre Dame are interested in providing the best communication services possible to students, and are conducting a research study to better understand your needs and perceptions of the current communication offerings. We would appreciate your participation by responding to a brief online survey. To thank you for your time, you will be asked to submit your name for a drawing for an iPod. Don't miss this opportunity to provide your opinions and a chance to win an iPod. 
Access the following link to complete the survey and submit your name for the drawing. www .mindwaveresearch.com/nd 
•The survey will be available Jan. ll'hthrough Jan. 13'h. 
:Sweepstakes official rules will be posted in the Sorin Conference room located in the Fortune Student Center beginning January 11 1h through January 13'h. 
©2005 SBC KnO\vlcdgc Ventures, L.P. All rights reserved. SBC, and the SBC logo and other product/service names arc trademarks of SBC Kno\\ ledge Ventures, L.P. and/or its affiliates. 

IF YOU'RE lUCKY, YOU MAY WAlK AWAY WITH A.... 
FREE TElEVISION, DVD PlAYER, MP3 PlAYER, OR GOlF BAG 

page 19 

Thursday,January 13 5:15pm Mass Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Fr. John Jenkins, C.S.C., President-elect, will preside and preach. Music provided by the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir. 
Acollection will be taken up at the Mass to assist the relief efforts. 


This Sunday, January 16, collections will be taken up at all the Masses offered on Campus. 
Members of the faculty and staff are invited to join us in this Campus-wide effort. Donations can be set to: 
Tsunami Relief, 114 Coleman-Morse Center 
All monies will be forwarded to Catholic Relief Services which "provides food, water, shelter, medicine and household necessities through their 
I 
l I I
on-site staff and local partners." 
I 
~ 
I 
_,
See www.crs.org 
I 
1
Contributions to the tsunami relief made before January 31,2005 are tax deductible for the 2004 tax return 
I
C-M

for those who itemize. Alternately, this deduction can be applied to the 2005 tax return. 
l
Campus Ministry 

l 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS , Thursday, January 13, 2005 

NBA 



Bryant returns to 
a familiar state 
Lakers star plays against Nuggets in Colorado, where rape allegations surfaced 
Associated Press DENVEH -Kobe Bryant has spent more time in Colorado than ho would have liknd the past two years, flying in and out dozens of times for hear­ings in the sexual assault case against him. On Wednesday, the Los Angoles Lukers star returned to thP Hoeky Mountain state for the lirst time since the case was dropped. "!It's! not a big doal to me," Bryant said Monday in Minnesota. "II'ml done with it. Not a big deal to me, bro." What Bryant went through 
during the past play.
"/It's/ not a big
I R months cer­He set the Pepsi
tainly was a big deal to me./l'm/ Center record deal. done with it." with 51 points in Bryant was February 2003, a accused of snxu­night after scor­
Kobe Bryant
ally assaulting a ing 42 points woman in his Lakers guard against the 
room at a Vail­area hotel when\ she worked in June 2003. 
The ease was about to go to trial when . prosecu-tors dropped the felony sexual assault charge last Sept. 1 because the woman said she would no longer partieipate. 
Bryant avoided a possible prison term, though he still faces a civil suit and repairing a sevnrely tarnished image. 
It was an experience that forced Bryant to tako a deop look at himself and his priori­ties. 
"When I think about last sea­son, I think about what a blessing it was to go through something like that," Bryant said. "I don't look at it as a curse. I look at it as a blessing. It got me dose to Cod. 
"God helps you and he car­ries you through many days. "It fools like a burden, but 
AUDITIONS!! 
THE LARAMIE PROJECT 
by Moises Kalifman 
& 

ARCADIA 
by Tom Stoppard 
Thursday, January 13, 7:00PM Friday, January 14, 7:00PM 
Callbacks: Saturday, January 15, 11 :OOAAf 
LOCATIONS: 
THE LARAMIE PROJECT Audition~ in Philbin Studio Theatre Callbacks in Sound Stage 
ARCADIA Auditions in the Sound Stage Callbacks in Philbin Studio Theatre 
SI(;N UP FOR AN Al!DITION TlME IN THE I!TT OFFICE, Room 230, Marie 1'. l>eBartolo Center for the Performing Arts, 631-7054 
there are many people in this world who have bigger crosses to bear. My wife's healthy, my daughter's healthy, my family's healthy. You've got to keep that in perspective." 
Bryant has shown he can shake off outside distractions. 
Last season, he played four times after spending the day in the courtroom and was stellar each time, hitting a game-win­ning shot at the buzzer to beat the Denver Nuggets and con­tributing a 42-point effort in the playoffs against San Antonio. 
Bryant also shrugged off a media frenzy and plenty of boos last season in his first trip to Denver after he was accused of sexual assault, fin­ishing with 27 points. 
Then again, Bryant always seems to play well against the 
Nuggets, no mat­
ter where they 
Nuggets in Los 

Angeles, and started off this season with 25 points in an opening win against Denver. 
Last week, Bryant scored the first 14 points of the fourth quarter and 42 overall to lead the Lakers to a 99-91 victory. 
In that game, Nuggets inter­im coach Michael Cooper reportedly told DerMarr Johnson to "lock him up" with­in earshot of Bryant, and later said he felt the Nuggets had done a good job keeping the Lakers star in check. 
Bryant responded by telling The Los Angeles Times: "If that's keeping me in check, wait until next time." 
Even without the extra incentive, the Nuggets know it isn't going to be easy. 
"Kobe is a great player," Johnson said. "You can't guard him by yourself." 

1 BUY YOUR 
TEXTBOOKS 



AT L 
AND SAVE UP TO 40°/o OFF* THE LIST PRICE. 
How, great is this? fmd great savings on new or used textbooks you need this semester. Go to half.com and enter thetitles or ISBN numbers. That's it! 
-------------------------, 
Save $ 
an additional 
on apurchase of $50 or more. 
Redeem this coupon by entering this code: NOTREDAME2005 
a1t half.com 
~;------------------------~ 
'1 'Clam basfl(l on compill$00 of avaroge selling ~ (e>:CI\Idl!lg shipping and handl~gl far top 10% of textboolls (by unrt volume) iQ!d on Half com from 41 August lst·Seplember 11, 2004 and Usted as 'brand new· by the seller. Wllh ffs! price for same title. TextiJaol(s are de~ned as undergr.Wa!e and graduate '1 texti)QI)k! ana exc~de reference 000/($ and novet~·r~eratuf1l 
=1 «O!fty,vaft<J fut $5 off 8P'Jldla.sed $50 or more ali-tall r.omllftt Orler 'i~lid fm~I'Bt ~me OO)'f.fS only. Orderwlile llljiS! 00 ~ mit'<i!OOmuf$50.00 bclore l~e di!rounl ~~~~~and dresl'!tll !~!dude~­. r.1J'jQ.M!KlllliJ.lil~OI'lll..~l.lti1Jv.'~, Tim C(ll.lf~CMSIOI betf!f(lt!in!I(IW\If: ~VOI!lett.OO;l!Jll, di$Wt~.gilt!'.erti&'"a!S-t~l'~fO!MllOn Afly~rtji.;lltMlfJI~ntlt ~t~r.~ldel~!! COOjlCI!lGI bt~ ~­.13', l/tli(IJ>h..-e tlfflhm®tJ_ Opei1 onlyli.l US. re&iilfflls l& yesnl'if age(!( ~:100<. Prom11tiGr. !l.l~d: kl•:ewMoo! !li'Aire. ~ ~t;ifH«! Msrr...~ 31. 2005 s1 11 ·5-9·59 EST 
.., 
@1004oe.1j01c. 

2005-2006 

RESIDENT ASSISTANT APPLICATIONS 
Available in the 
Office ofStudent Affairs 
316 Main Building 
Applications are also available for downloading at: http://osa.nd.edu/ 
Completed applications must be submitted by January 19,2005 
.COm™ 




bvfll{' 





Thursday, January 13, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
BOXING 
Controversial King sues ESPN for $2.5 billion 
not once, but twice." there," and said the network
Promoter contends a 
Most of the material in the had refused to retract parts of program had been printed or the program that offended
'SportsCentury' 
broadcast earlier about King, King. segment lied and who has spent much of his The suit, filed in state court career in court, but the wild­in Broward County, Fla., namesinsulted him haired promoter said he had ESPN and its parent company, just had enough. Walt Disney Co., among the 
Associated Press 
"I just felt that this was the defendants. Also named are NEW YOHK -For once, Don straw that broke the camel's Disney-owned ABC Cable King kept quiet. back and I can't Networks and Instead of pontificating, the take it. anymore, Advocate
"/just felt this was
boxing promoter stood stiffly in and I'm going to Communications, the background as his lawyer fight back," King the straw that broke a Florida-based discussed a defamation suit said at a news the camel's back. I cable and satellite King l'iled Wednesday against conference. "I system.
can't take it any
ESPN. The attorney said King is seek justice." "We have not 
more and I'm going 
entitled to damages of more King, wearing seen a copy of the than $2.5 billion. a garish to fight it.'' lawsuit, so we are The lawsuit says a American flag tie not in a position "SportsCentury" segment aired and two flag to comment on
Don King
last May accused King of being lapel pins, then it," said Mike 
boxing promoter 
"a snake oil salesman, a quietly stepped Soltys, ESPN's shameless huckster and back and let vice president of worse," claimed the flamboyant lawyer Willie Gary answer communications. "However, promoter underpaid Muham­questions. SportsCentury is a Peabody­mad Ali by $1.2 million and Gary called the Sports­and Emmy-award winning claimed King -~onvicted in a Century segment "a story series of more than 250 biogra­1967 beating death and acquit­designed to orchestrate and phies that is widely respected integrity." suit filed against him by Tyson. ted in a 1954 killing -"killed create an impression that is not for its journalistic quality and The suit also says Sports­King paid $7.5 million to for­

Century accused King of threat­mer middleweight champion ening to break Terry Norris in
The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges the 
the legs of heavy­late 2003 to weight Larry "It was slanted to settle a suit.
following businesses which support our student caller 
Holmes and of show Don in the worst King sued for­cheating boxer mer heavy­
way.... Don is a
INCENTIVES PROGRAM: 
Meldrick Taylor weight cham­
strong man, but he 
out of $1 million pion Lennox from a fight and has been hurt by this. " Lewis for libel. then threatening King also has to have Taylor beaten federal
Willie Gary
killed. charges,
Gold 

lawyer
"It was slanted including tax to show Don in evasion and
Beacon Bowl, Inc. NICTD (South Shore) 
the worst way. It was one-sided fraud. Blackthorn Golf Club Quality Dining/Burger King 
from day one," Gary said. "Don He served nearly four years is a strong man, but he has in prison for the 1967 beating
Carriage House Hooters of Mishawaka 
been hurt by this." death of a man who owed him
Chick-Fil-A South Bend Silver Hawks 
King has represented fighters money. In 1954, he killed a from Ali to Mike Tyson, and has man who was robbing anum­
College Football Hall of Fame South Bend Orchestra 
been sued by several of them -bers house he operated, but it
Famous Dave's Studebaker National Museum 
including a $100 million law-was ruled self-defense. 
Hacienda Mexican Restaurant Wai-Mart 
Silver 

fi()()leu•s 
Atria Salon Patricia Ann Florist 

Heautb

Barnaby's Quality Dining/Chili's/Papa Vino's 
South Bend's Only Authentic Irish Pub
Between the Buns Rocco's Restaurant Bonnie Doon Ice Cream South Bend Regional Museum 
25% Oft on Food & SonDrinkS 
Honkers Ten Thousand Villages 
with Valid Stllllem 11 

K's Merchandise Tippecanoe Place Restaurant 
Join os at Tbe HeaRth J:OR ... 
Bronze 

Fair Trade Colfee-Fresh ground wllll everv pot Live Music Mon, Wed, Thu, Fri & Sat Nights
Broadway Theatre League Martin's Supermarket 
And during Sunday Brunch noon-2pm
Doc Pierce's Ritter's Frozen Custard Drive and Shine South Bend Civic Theatre 
Board Games • Breakfast All Day Every Day 4o Minors Welcome Fun Tan, Inc. Wendts of South Bend 
Now forming board game & euchre tournaments Golden Dragon Wing, Etc. Restaurant & Pub 
127 N. Main Street (between Colfax & Washington)
Majerek's Hallmark Ziker Cleaners 
{574) 232-2853 • www.fiddlershearth.com 4o Open Daily Lunch & Dinner 
Do you play a musical instrument? 
'


Do you want to be a part of Irish hockey? 
• 
If so, you can join the 

lt{i5h Hocl\€Y -rl\aV€1 5and 

for 1/22 vs. Wisconsin in Chicago and/or 2/18 vs. Michigan in Fort Wayne! FREE FOOD -FREE TICKETS TO THE GAME -FREE TRANSPORTATION You can be part of the Irish Hockey Travel Band! For more information, please contact ND Sports Marketing and Promotions at 1-8393. 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 13, 2005 
NFL 
Illness keeps Jets' QB Pennington off field 
New York prepares for second-round 
playoffgame against 
top seed Pittsburgh 
Associated Press IIJo:MI'STJo:AI>. N.Y.-All of a suddnn. tlw Nnw York .Ids have issuns at quartnrback. Chad PPnnington missed prar.tic.n Wndnnsday 
team. llis play takes this team to a whole other level. When lw's on point. a lot of other things c:an go wrong and we still seem to get the job done. We nePd that." 
Missing a few days of practice could disturb his rhythm and his preparation for the biggest gamo of tho season. Mnanwhilo, dofensive end John Abraham also is quostionable with a sprained right knee and prar.tieed Wcdnns-day and 
would be a game­
timl1 dedsion. 


with a stomach "If anything it rests But injuries to virus, whiln 
his two biggest

his arm another day. 
players will not There's always a dntPr Edwards.
backup <)uinry 
<:artnr wPnt 
home to positioe in "1 don't get hung <;norgia to hP up on all that
everything. " 
with his ailing stuff. I really don't," Edwards
rnothnr. l'nnnington may 
Herman Edwards said. "I learned a not he abln to Jets head coach 
long timo ago you 

p r· a r. t i ('. n 
Thursday. hut 
coach llnrrnan 1-:dwards is (:on­
lidnnt his franchisP playnr will 
lw rnady for Saturday's playoff' 
ganw against Pittsburgh. 
"lip 'II play." l·:dwards said. "I 
would lw shocknd if lw didn't." 
l'nnnington callnd Edwards 
on TuPsday night to say lw was 
Si(:k. 
lin canH' to .IPts lwadquartnrs WndrH•sday and trind to prae­tin•. hut l·:dwards took onl' look at him and snnt him insidn to gnl somP rnst. 
Cartnr W(Hit homo Tunsday, so No. :{ quarlt\rback Brooks Bollingnr took tlw snaps with tho first-tnam offense at prae­ti(:n. 
l•:dwards said he did not know wlwn Carter would rnturn. That nwans Bollinger would be the ba<~kup for game, not exactly the ideal situation for tlw .Jets, who need Pennington at his best to have a shot at beating the Steelers. 
Pennington, who got siek from his wife and son, had intravenous lluids to help him gd lwttnr. 1\dwards was not worried about Pennington. 
"(;nnnrally wlwn guys get si<:k tlu\y havn good games." said t•:dwards, who also is und(H' the weatlwr. "I thought one time Miduwl .Jordan got sick and he had. what, I00 points or sornn­thing lik(\ that'! Maybt> that's a good sign when guys g<'t sick." 
l'nnnington is (:orning oiT his host ganw sinrn straining his right. rotator cull' in Nowmber, throwing for ;a(J yards in a 20­17 ovnrlinw wild-card win over San Dingo. 
"If anything. it rests his arm anotlwr day," 1-:dwards said. "Thnn~·s always a positivn in nvnrything in lifo if you look at it that way. Now you can spin it tlw othnr way and say this glass is empty. hut l'vn still got SOliII' watnr in it." 
Pnnnington had onn of his worst gamns of the snason in tlw first mooting with Pittsburgh, throwing three intnrr.nptions and finishing with a quartprback rating of :B.6. It was his sneond game back sinrn tho injury. so he looknd a I i t ll o rusty. B u L a g a i n s t tlw Chargers. Ponnington threw long and short. and lookod to bn bac:k to his old Sf\ll'. 
"I think that's the only way wo win, wilh Chad playing the way he did," Curtis Martin said earlinr this week. "We need Chad to bn tlw MVP of LIH1 play­olTs for tlw Nnw York Jets in order for us to win. It c:an take us all thn way. 
"Chad is tho lnador of this 
coach the players that are avail­able." "Wiwn tlwy g<'t back to prae­tiee, tlwy gnt back to practice." 

Fri., Jan. 14@ 7=35 PM Hockey VS #12 Ohio State ·~The first 1ooo fans receive a hockey promo mask courtesy of The WB and Meijer 
me11er 
Saturda  Janua  15  
Basketball @ 2PM  Hockey @ 7:os PM  
VS St. John's  VS #12 Ohio State  

·~Early arriving fans will +The first soo fans receive Current PI receive a set of , Trading Cards giveawa Leprechaun h ~· sponsored by Stacking Dolls ~~­Champion Window courtesy of ~ ''Come out to see the Notre Dame Coca-Cola Bear Federal in person Credit Union "Amazing Rope Warri half-time show! 
Sun., Jan. 16 @ sPM Women's Basketball VS Purdue ·•Quick Change half­time show! Jackie Batteast Ph 
Basketballs to the 


OUND THE NATION 
Thursday, January 13, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVERS W!RE SERVICES page 23 
NBA 
Eastern Conference, Atlantic 

team record perc. last 10 GB 
New York 17·18 .486 4·6 Philadelphia 15·18 .455 5·5 1 Boston 16·20 444 4·6 1.5 Toronto 14·22 .389 5·5 2 New Jersey 12·22 .353 4-6 4.5 
Eastern Conference, Central 

team record perc. la.'it 10 GB 
Cleveland 21-12 .636 7-3 Detroit 20·14 .588 8·2 1.5 Indiana 17-16 .515 5-5 4 Chicago 14·18 .438 7-3 6.5 Milwaukee 12-20 .375 6-4 8.5 
Eastern Conference, Southeast 
team record perc . last 10 GB Miami 27·10 .730 7-3 Washington 20·13 .606 6·4 5 Orlando 18-15 .545 4-6 7 Charlotte 8·23 .258 2·8 16 Atlanta 6·26 .188 4-14 18.5 
Western Conference, Northwest 
team record perc. last 10 GB Seattle 25-8 •758 7-3 Minnesota 17-16 .515 2-8 8 Portland 15-19 .441 3·7 10.5. Denver 14-20 .412 1-9 11.5 Utah 12-24 .333 1-9 14.5 
Western Conference, Pacific 

team record perc. last 10 GB Phoenix 31-4 .886 9-1 Sacramento 22-11 .667 6-4 8 LA LakllrS 18-14 .563 5·5 11.5 LA Clippers 16-17 .485 5-5 14 
Golden State 11-24 .314 4-6 20 
Western Conference, Southwest 
team record perc. last 10 GB San Antonio 28·8 .778 8·2 Dallas 22·10 .688 8·2 4 Houston 17-17 ,500 6·4 10 Memphis 18·18 .500 7·3 10 ,M New Orleans 4-30 .118 2~8 23 
MIAA Conference Basketball Standing' 
team MIAA overall 
Albion 6·B 14,1 
Calvin 5·1 11-2 
Hope 5-1 2-2 
Kalamazoo 2-3 H 
Olivet 2-3 7-6 
Adrian 1-4 4·8 
Alma 1-4 6·5 
SAINT MARY'S 1-4 6·8 
Tri· State 1-4 4·10 
around the dial 
COLLEGE BASKETBALL Duke at N.C. State 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

New Jersey at Houston 8 p.m., TNT Cleveland at Los Angeles 1 0;30 p.m., TNT 
MLB 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Baseball players and owners have reached a new agreement on steroid testing and plan to announce it Thursday, The Associated. Press has learned. 
The agreement will include penalties for first­time offenders, an AL play­er said on condition of anonymity. Other details, such as the frequency of tests, were not immediately available. 
Baseball and union offi­cials were preparing an announcement, and com­missioner Bud Selig and union executives intended to discuss the agreement Thursday after an owners' meeting in Scottsdale, Ariz., players said. 
"''m glad we could come to an agreement," said Chicago Cubs pitcher Mike Remlinger, who was briefed on the deal Wednesday. "It was the right thing to do. I think it was something that needed to be done, and I think players understand it needed to be addressed." 
The sides spent the past month negotiating the deal after the union's executive· board gave its staff approval to pursue an agreement on a more rig­orous testing program. 
Some in Congress threat­ened to take action unless baseball reached an agree­ment on its own. 
"I think it's going to entail more testing, some out-season testing, yes, more in-season random testing and stiffer penal­ties," said New York Mets pitcher Tom Glavine, a sen­ior member of the union. 
Bob DuPuy, baseball's chief operating officer, said he anticipated confirma­tion of a deal by the end of the owners' meeting. 
"It will be wonderful once it's done, but I don't want to pre-empt any announcement, and I cer­tainly don't want to pre-
IN BRIEF 

Baseball hopes to find new 
owner for Nationals 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. -Major League Baseball still is targeting April for finding an owner for the Washington Nationals, now that the new home of the former Montreal Expos has been determined. 
"I would expect that we would start the diligence with the prospective buyers within a week to 10 days," baseball's chief operating officer Bob DuPuy said Wednesday during a break in the owners' meeting. "We've got materials assembled in New York, and we'll be inviting groups in, and we'll go from there." 
Asked if six to eight prospective ownership groups were expected, DuPuy said, "a little higher than that. and my guess is it will sort itself out over time." 
Ownership of the Washington, Oakland and Milwaukee franchises were to be discussed during the two­day session at a north Scottsdale resort. 
Agassi sets up meeting with Roddick 
MELBOURNE, Australia-A sleek­er, fitter Andre Agassi beat Olympic gold medalist Nicolas Massu of Chile 6-1, 7-6 (4) in the first round of the Kooyong Classic on Wednesday to set up a match with Andy Roddick. 
Roger Federer beat Gaston Gaudio 5-7, 6-1, 6-4, closing with an ace and a sharp forehand to tune up for his defense of the Australian Open title. 
Second-ranked Roddick advanced in the exhibition tournament with an easy 6-1, 6-4 win over Croatia's Ivan Ljubicic -a late replacement for injured Paradorn Srichaphan. 
Agassi and Roddick will meet Thursday in the eight-man promo­tion-relegation format, while Federer next plays Friday against Tim Henman, who had a 6-1, 7-5 win over Argentina's David Nalbandian. 
Agassi, who will be looking for his fifth Australian Open title, trimmed down to about 163 pounds from 176 after concentrating on strength and empt all the work the com­missioner has done on this, so I'll reserve my com­ments until after it's announced," he said. 
Selig declined comment Wednesday. Gene Orza, the union's chief operating offi­cer, also declined com­ment. 
Players and owners agreed to a drug-testing plan in 2002 that called for survey-testing for steroids the following year. Because more than 5 percent of tests were positive, random testing with penalties began last year. Each play­er was tested for steroids twice over a single five-to seven-day period. 

fitness instead of tennis technique. Diamondbacks add Estes, trade Hillenbrand 
NEW YORK -The retooling Arizona Diamondbacks made two more deals Wednesday, finalizing a contract with pitcher Shawn Estes and trading infielder Shea Hillenbrand to Toronto. 
Arizona's moves came one day after it sent Randy Johnson to the New York Yankees and acquired Shawn Green and Javier Vazquez in separate trades. 
Estes turned down a two-year offer for more money from the Washington Nationals. He and his wife, Heather, and their sons, 16-month-old Jackson and 3-month-old Cody, live in Paradise Valley, about a 20-minute drive to Bank One Ballpark. 
He becomes the third new starting pitcher on a Diamondbacks roster that has been dramatically over­hauled after the team lost 111 games last season. Arizona also signed free agent Russ Ortiz. 

We is Cutcliffe 

Assistants 
continued from page 28 
to find the guys who rnspnet tlw most with X's and O's," he said. "And I think I was fortunate Pnough to come up with a nice combination of tlw two." 
The nwmbers of Weis' new staff are Cutelif'f'e. Haywood, L<~wis, n~ePivPrs coach/recruit­ing coordinator Hob lannllo, ol"f't~nsive line eoaeh .John Latina, defensive coordinator/ linnbaekPrs eoarh Hick Minter, dPfensivn linn coach Jappy Oliver, tight nnds/spneial tnams coach Bernie l'armalec and assistant defensive baeks/sptH'.ial teams coach Brian l'olian. 
Cutelif'f'n was fired as the lwad coach of OIP Miss follow­ing a 4-7 rt~rord this season. In his six ynars at Ole Miss, Cutelif"f'e amassed a 44-29 record including a I 0-3 mark in tlw 200:~ season. Prior to his time at Olt~ Miss, Cuteliffe served as offensive coordina­tor for Tennessee's I 998 undnf'natnd national ehampi­onshi p tnam. 
Cutelif'f'e has helped eoaeh several players who have gorw on to succeed in the NFL, including this year's MVP 
Haywood lanello latina lewis 
Peyton Manning (Tennessee). held that job until 2003. In (;iants quarterback Eli 2004, Minter again served as Manning (Ole Miss) and Saints a defensive coordinator for running back Deuee McAllister Jloltz, this time at South (Ole Miss). Carolina. 
"Dave Cuteliffe, who can In 1992, Minter's defense argue with his past success? I was the fourth best nationally mean, his successes with the against the run, and three of Mannings alone, both at his players earned all-America Tennessee and at Ole Miss," honors -free safety Jeff Weis said. "I Burris, cor­mean, when n e r b a c k you get ... "Dave Cutcliffe, who can Bobby Taylor guys with and tackle
argue with his past 
that ability Bryant 
to eome and success? I mean, [look at} Young. join your his successes with the Baywood, a 
starr. il' you four-year let­
Mannings alone. both at
don't get ter-winner at thnm, then Tennessee and at Ole Notre Dame you're the Miss." (1982, 1984­one making 86), has the mistakn served as
Charlie Weis 
by not try­running ing to gnt Irish head coach backs coach thorn." and eo-spe­Latina, cial teams who served as Cut-cliff'e's coordinator at Texas since the offensive coordinator all six 2003 season. In 2004, he was years at Ole Miss, will join promoted to recruiting coordi­Cuteliffe on Weis' Notre Dame nator. stal'f. Under Haywood's tenure as Mintnr is another member of an assistant coach at LSU Weis' staff' with previous ties prior to leaving for Texas, he to Notre Dame, after spending helped coach LaBrandon the 1992 and 1993 seasons as Toef'ield and Domanick Davis defensive coordinator under into third round NFL draft Lou lloltz. In 1994 he was picks. Davis is currently the hired as head coach at the starting running back for the University of Cincinnati and Houston Texans. 
Minter Oliver 

Current Texas running back Cedric Benson, who Haywood also coached, is almost guar­anteed to be a high dral't pick. 
"What I found with Mike Haywood and Hick Minter, who happen to be the coordi­nators, you bring in a head coach with Notre Dame ties, an offensive coordinator with Notre Dame ties, and a defen­sive coordinator with Notre Dame tics, I think you're on the right track to get going," Weis said. 
Lewis has been the defensive nickel package coach for the NFL's Miami Dolphins since 1996. Under Lewis' guidance, the Dolphins have finished in the top eight or passing defense six of the last seven seasons, ineluding a second­overall ranking in 2004 at 162 yards per game. 
Parmalee will also move to Notre Dame's staff from the Dolphins, where he was the team's tight ends coach in 2004. 
Ianello has served the past two years as tight ends coach at Wisconsin following nine years at Arizona. In 1998, with lanello as offensive coor­dinator, Arizona finished with a 12-1 record and finished the season ranked No. 4 in the nation. 
Oliver will join Notre Dame's 
Parmalee Polian 

staff after leaving South Carolina, where hn served as defensive line coach l'or the Ganwcoeks the past two sea­sons. 
Polian is one of the youngest members of Wflis' stal'f'. with only eight years eollngiatc experience. 
Polian served as running backs eoaeh/recruiting coordi~ nator at Central Florida in 2004 under Georgn <)'t.eary. 
Contact Justin Schuver at 
jschuver@nd.edu 



Thursday, January 13, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles defeat Adrian in conference matchup 
game, Rainsberger hit a turn­final minute, ensuring the win. By KEVIN BRENNAN around jumper in the lane and Creachbaum led Saint Spons Writer was fouled by Belles center Mary's in the winning effort. 
Maureen Bush. Hainsberger The Belles' leading scorer on 
Staring at a 6-8 record, hit the free throw to make the the season had 24 points and Saint Mary's discovered com­score 39-37. But Creachbaum 10 rebounds. The forward posure and poise at the per­immediately responded on the earried Saint Mary's offensive­fect moment. other end with a layup, ly, making up for the fact that 
In the second half of a highly extending the Saint Mary's the team shot only 33 percent contested, must-win game, the lead back to four. from the field. Belles came up with all the This marked the beginning "[Creachbaum] is so solid right plays at the right times of a second-half trend. Time and consistent," Bellina said. to secure a 66-61 victory over ancj time again, Adrian pulled "She just always gets the job the Bulldogs of Adrian College within one basket of the done." on Wednesday night. Belles, only to have Saint With the win, Saint Mary's 
"It definitely wasn't easy," Mary's immediately score on moves to 7-8 overall and 2-4 Belles coach Suzanne Bellina its next possession. in the MIAA. Bellina stressed said. "We really gutted this Creachbaum, Bush, Kessler the importance of the victory one out." and Bridget Boyce all had as the Belles try to make up 
Saint Mary's jumped out to clutch baskets that kept the ground in the conference. an early 13-3 advantage and Bulldogs out of striking dis­"We were playing the top led for the entire first half. tance. teams for the past week or Freshman guard Allison "We really did a great job of so," she said. "This stretch, Kessler hit a lay-up as time staying calm and making the starting tonight, is so impor­expired to give the Belles a plays when they needed to be tant for us. 30-22 intermission lead. made," Bellina said. Four of the bottom teams in Senior forward Emily With 1:10 left, Adrian guard the conference were 1-4 head­Creachbaum had 12 points Jesse Borowiak hit a baseline ing into tonight. We wanted to and five rebounds in the first jumper to bring the Bulldogs start a drive back to the mid­half. to within one point. Saint dle of the pack with a win 
In the second period, the Mary's responded as it had tonight." 
4-13 2-2 10, Bush 4-11 6-8 14, 3-point goals: Saint Mary's 0-12 (Kessler
Bulldogs slowly chipped away throughout the second half. Saint Mary's will look to con­
Creachbaurn 9-16 6-6 24, Mullen 0-2 1-2 0-2, Lipke 0-3, Boyce 0-4, Bush 0-1, at the Saint Mary's lead. On the next possession, the tinue to move up in the stand­1. Mangan 1-2 1-2 3 Creachbaurn 0-2), Adrian 5-25 (Roose 1-4, Adrian applied full-court pres­Belles went to Creachbaum, ings on Saturday with a road ADRIAN (4-9, 1-5) Helldobler 0-2, McCall2-7, Rainsberger 0­
Roose 2-8 0-0 5, Helldobler 3-6 2-2 8, 4, Borowiak 1-3, Hart 1-3, Steele 0-1,
sure and developed the offen­who coolly sank two foul shots contest against Alma College. 
McCall3-91-2 9, Rainsberger 7-14 5-619, Psuate 0-1). Fouled out: None. Rebounds:
sive rhythm it was missing in to push the lead to 60-57. 
SAINT MARY'S 66, Borowiak 3-6 0-0 7, Hart 4-10 2-4 11, Saint Mary's 43 (Creac.hbaurn 10), Adrian the first half. Freshman for­The Belles closed out the Blazejewski 0-0 0-0 0, Steele 0-2 0-0 0, 38 (Rainsberger 8). Assists: Saint Mary's
ADRIAN 61
ward Amanda Rainsberger led game with flawless free throw Psuate 1-4 0-0 2 10 (Kessler 4), Adrian 13 !Helldobler 4).
at the ANGELA ATHLETIC 
Total fouls: Saint Mary's 11, Adrian 20.
the Adrian charge, finishing shooting down the stretch. 
CENTER 1st 2nd Total
with 19 points and eight Creachbaum, Boyce and 
SAINT MARY'S 30 36 66 
rebounds. Bridget Lipke eombined to go SAINT MARY'S (7 -8, 2-4) ADRIAN 22 39 61 Contact Kevin Brennan at With 11:22 remaining in the 6-of-6 from the Hne in the Kessler 2-8 6-7 10, Lipke 0-8 4-4 4, Boyce kbrenna4@nd.edu 
will move down the line and education and I believe in what mitted officially to the Irish time of the Army All-America play offensive tackle for Notre coach Weis is going to do," until they sign their national Bowl in San Antonio. Among
Recruits 
Dame. The three-star prospect Turkovich said to letters of intent in early these high school stars will be continued from page 28 gained 50 pounds in order to Irisheyes. com. "I believe in February. wide receiver D.J. Hord from play tackle during his senior him. I think very good things Duncan is successful off the Rockhurst High in Kansas City. ing most of his career at year at Valley Forge after three are on the way for Notre field as well, carrying a 3.4 The 10-ranked player at his Valley Forge Military Academy years as a tight end. Dame." GPA and a 1090 SAT. His position according to in Wayne, Penn., Turkovich "I committed because of the Neither player will be com-choice came down to Notre Scout.com, Hord has narrowed 
Dame and Duke. LSU was in his list to Kansas State and the running for him until Nick Notre Dame. Saban resigned to coach the "It was so much fun," Hord Miami Dolphins. said to ESPN .com's Tom 
Turkovieh had his prospec­Lemming about his recent visit tive schools narrowed down to to Notre Dame. "I met a lot of Boston College, Wiseonsin and players, Coach Weis was a Notre Dame before his commit­really nice guy. I finally got to ment to the Irish. meet him face to face with my 
"He's quick footed and a real­family. Overall, it was a really ly solid player," Frank said. great experience." 
A handful of prospeets will be making their college choices Contact Mike Gilloon at known this weekend at half-mgilloon@nd.edu 


University of Notre Dame Department of Music Presents 
MUSIC FOR TWO GAMBAS AND ORGAN 
Mary Anne Ballard, viola da gamba Elizabeth MacDonald, viola da gamba Craig Cramer, organ 
Music by 

JOHANN SCHENCK AUGUST KOHNEL DIETERICH BUXTEHUDE JAN PIETERSZOON SWEELINCK 
8:00p.m. Friday, January 14, 2005 
Reyes Organ and Choral Hall Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts 
General admission $10; facultyIstaff $8; seniors $6; students $3 phone 574-631-2800 for tickets 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, January 13, 2005 
Hoops 
continued from page 28 
McCraw said. "They didn't 
do that today." 
Connecticut freshman for­ward Chardn Houston led four lluskies in double fig­urns with 19 points. while Ashley Battle added 15 ofT tlw bench. Notre Dame had just one player, Crystal !irwin. in double ligures. She finished with II. while a trio of players had eight points each. 
"I thought Houston played really well." McGraw said. "W1~ just had a lot of trouble guarding her. She was really a tough mateh-up for us." 
The Irish never got into a rhythm throughout the game, and they lost All-American Jacqueline Batteast tem­porarily just over five min­utes before halftime to an ankle injury. Batteast played just 14 minutes in the l"irst half but did return to play 18 minutos in tlw second half. She finished the game with eight points on 2-of-12 shoot­ing. 
Thn Huskins took over in tlw second half by winning tlw battle inside. Conneeticut used its quickness on defense to deflect and intnrcnpt Notre Damn pass­ns to the interior 


"We were a little
and outre­at the intermission bounded quicker than they after Strother 
the Irish were inside. That was drilled a 3-pointer 
17-14 on with 1 second left.
the difference in the 
the ofTen-Connecticut was s i v second ha(f." just 35 percent boards. from the field in "In tho the first half. but it
Geno Auriemma 
second made 5-of-13 3­
Huskies head coach
half. they really went inside and we just sennwd like we could­r!'t get a defensive rebound," McCraw said. "Thny really controlled tlw boards. They had 17 offensive rebounds. That's bonn our Achilles heel all year. and it's something we've got to get better at." 
Notre Damn started the sec­ond half on a 7-0 run to take a :B-31 lead. The two teams exchanged loads until Connecticut pulled away by six. 45-39. with 8:59 on a Bat.tle field goal. The II uskies extended their lead to 51-41 wlwn Mol Thomas sank a pair of l'nw throws with 7:27 left. 
"We were a little quicker than they worn inside," Connndicut coach Geno Auriemnut said. "That was tlw difference in the second 

half. If you're going to beat Notre Dame, you've got win in the lane." 
Battle said the Huskies played a complete second half on both ends of the court. 
"Our defense was better in the second half," Battle said. "We buckled down and made shots when we needed to." 
The Irish shot 48 percent in 
the first half but 
took just 25 shots 
and trailed 31-26 
point attempts. The Huskies fin­ished the game 5­

of-20 from beyond the arc. 
Notre Dame scored the first four points of the game before Connecticut responded with a 10-2 run to lead by four with 14:56 in the first half. . 
Forward Willnett Crockett fouled out with 11:21 remain­ing in the game, and Erwin fouled out for Notre Dame at the 4:13 mark. 
NO. 16 CONNECTICUT 67, NO. 7 NOTRE DAME 50 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (13-3, 2-2) Battnast 2-12 4-4 H, Erwin 3-6 5-6 11, Borton :{-5 1-3 7, DufTy 3-9 0-0 6, Gray 1­5 0-0 2, Gainr~s 0-2 0-0 0, Allen 4-6 0-0 8, l.aY1m' 4-7 0-0 8 
CONNECTICUT (9-4, 2-0) 
Houston 8-15 3-719, Strother 4-17 2-2 13, Moore 4-'1 0-0 8, Valley 0-:1 0-0 0, 

Sunday, January 16, 2005 
1:00 P.M. Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
ALL INSTRUCTORS WILL BE PRESENT 
Dance is great exercise. If you have a curiosity about any of these dance genres come and see what they're all about. 
Woi!T 0-1 2-2 2, Swanier 0-1 0-0 0, Sadig 0-0 0-0 0, Battle 6-8 3-6 15, Crockett 0-1 0-0 0, Thomas 3-7 2-2 10 
1st 2nd Total NOTRE DAME 26 24 50 Connecticut :n 36 67 
3-point goals: Notm Dame 0-3 (Battcast 0-2, Dully 0-1) Connectieut 5-20 (Strother 3-12, Valley 0-3, Wolll"0-1, Thomas 2-4). Fouled out: Erwin, Cr<u:kett. Rebounds: Notre Dame 11-33 (Horton 9), Conneetieul15-32 (Moore 9). Assists: Notre Dame 14 (l)ufTy 9), Connectieut 17 (Strother 7). Total fouls: Notre Dame 18, Connecticut 13. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhettler@nd.edu 
Bad Loss 
continued from page 28 

weren't. Not this time. And so the Irish watched as Connecticut dominated inside. 
They watched Huskies freshman Charde Houston score 15 points in the second half, good for 1Y on the game. 
They saw Ashley Battle, who averages seven points a game, put up 15 points. They watched as they were beaten by a team with less talent. 
Sure, All-American Jacqueline Batteast hurt her ankle with five minutes to• play in the first half. 
Sure, she shot just 2-of-12 from the field. If this hap­pened last year, Connecticut would have blown out Notre Dame. 
But this year's Irish team is good enough to win despite those numbers by Batteast. What killed Notre Dame were turnovers, offensive rebounds and a lack of intensity. 
"Hebounding was the prob­lem in the second half," for­ward Crystal Erwin said. "We also didn't play with nearly enough energy." 
Notre Dame committed 17 turnovers, including seven by point guard Megan Duffy. No matter who you play, it's tough to win when you turn the ball over 17 times. 
Battle, the Connecticut sen­ior, called the win the "turn­ing point of the season." She said it was the first time the 
Huskies played the way they 
could. 

And so they got the upset, 
unlike a year ago. 
Geno Auriemma, who 

boasts a carenr .835 winning 
percentage, said it tlw best. 
"The win was incredibly important," he said. "At some point, we needed to win a game like this so our team could be reminded of who we are." 
Wait, Connecticut, having to reaffirm who they are'? 
A team who has won the last three national champi­onships and four of the last five? 
Well, thanks to Notre Dame, Connecticut knows who they are again. That's what Wednesday's game did. 
But on the other side, Notre Dame has to regroup. Batteast must get healthy, Duffy has to take care of the ball and defensive rebounding needs to improve. In the meantime, the Irish have to deal with another upset, their third loss of this young sea­son. 
"I think they expect to be one of the better teams in the league, and they certainly act like it and they play like it," Auriemma said. 
Just not on Wednesday. 

The views in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contactlleather Van lloegar­den at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

· .. 

Write sports. Call1-4543. 
Thursday, January 13, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
DILBERT 
ITS TEMPOR.AR.Y BLIND­NESS CAUSED BY YOUR. BOSS'S FLASHES OF THE OBVIOUS. 
PEANUTS 
'1'0U KNOW WH'1' I WANT TO 6UV PE66'1' JEAN Tl-lOSE GLOVES FOR CHRISTMAS? 
SCOTT ADAMS 

r-------------------------~or-------------------------~
.5 

LET DOGBER.T GUIDE 
~ 
::J
,.,

YOU FOR. A FEW DAYS. 
.c 

AND HERE'S A PRE­
1ii SCRIPTION TO MAKE 
~ 
0

YOU DOPEY. 
.5 .,; 
E 
"0 
"' 
<( 
15 
ell 
g 
"' 0 @ 

CHARLES SCHULZ 
BUT I Dmh ~AVE 
SEND I-IER A NICE TWENT'1'-FIVE 
CARD, AND TELL 14ER DOLLARS TO BW 
TO KEEP I-IER I-lANDS T~E GLOVES... 
IN I-IER POCKETS! 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
Yesterday I found a nice bracelet 
RINED 


rJ 
1 
@2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
BICCU 
j 


WHAT THE: BARBC:R 17117 ON VAC.ATION.
J r J
1 
www.jumble.com 
MERCOH ± 

Now arrange the circled letters to 
form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 

I Jumbles: RUSTY TRIPE SUPERB FALLOWYesterday's 
Answer: When her purse was snatched, the turnpike oasis became a-"WREST" STOP 
-~ 
EUGENIA LAST

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ HOROSCOPE 
ACROSS 36 Motherly instinct DOWN 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Andy Lawrence. 17; Melanie Jayne 1 Mexican dish 37 What 1-, 6-, 9-, 
Chisholm, 31; Rob Zombie, 39; Joe Frazier, 61
1 Informal inter­65-, 66-and view
6 Cheese 
67-Across have 2 1997 film" Happy Birthday: You are creative in a way that. spells money no matter how 9 Gamblers' hold-Gold" -you look at it. You should be able to convince others to put money behind you. 
in common

ings This can be a great year if you are confident, work hard and follow through on
3 Cary of "The 
41 Mystique your promises. Your numbers are 3. 19, 25, 30, 31,47
14 Creatures able 
Princess Bride" to regenerate 
42 Radio host 

4 Starts to rise ARIES (March 21-April 19): You'll have plenty of energy and a do-it-now
Schlessingerlost limbs 

from bed attitude. A lot can be accomplished if you do your homework first. Someone will 15 Lose by design 43 Historical topic 5 Commercials take an interest. **** TAURUS (April20-May 20): Don't let anyone get to you today. Be strong and 
17 Barely passing 44 1912 Olympics 6 Palindromic guy 
steadfast. Emotional upset can be expected: someone will try to hold you back. 
grades track star 
7 Crux ** 18 Plowless plant-47 Angry aSatirical novelist GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A creative idea will interest someone you talk to. Don't sell yourself short --you are the one to oversee your ideas. Love is in the 
ing method 49 Like some Stanley 
picture. ***** 

19 After-dinner nouns in Lat. 9 Whence the line 
CANCER (June 21-.July 22): If you try to work at home, someone will bother serving 51 Beats handily you. Don't let snide comments get to you. It's not up to you to do someone else's
"Thy word is a lamp unto my work.***
20 Guarantee 55 Science center 
feet" LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): There is plenty happening around you. Get out and 22 "The Secret of 58 Moon of mix and mingle with people who are doers. Call in favors from your peers. You 
10 Anomalous 
_" (1982 film) can prosper if you react. ***
Neptune 11 Make winter 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): The more unique you are, the further you will get 
24 Stickpin head 61 Accommodate wear, maybe 
today. Your ideas will get everyone around you thinking. You can take a leadership27 Writer who said 12 Overhang position. ***
62 Worked up

"I am not a LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Love should be penciled in. If you are single. accept 
13 Mother of Zeus 64 Wispy clouds 
speed reader. I a blind date or attend an event geared toward people looking for partners. Lots 
16 "Last Essays of 
am a speed 65 Items sold at can happen if you are a pmticipant. ***** 
_," 1833 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may be questioning your current personal
understander'' stands 
18 Writer Zora situation. A move or alterations to your Jiving quarters may be required. Talk to 31 Big shiner 66 Neckcloth Hurston a trusted friend. ** SACITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Money and how you make it may be on
34 Protective 67 Places to sit on 21 Employee 39 Dirty look 50 Coloring 57 1992-93 heavy-
your mind but it's the research you do that will clarify what you should be doing.
cover? a ship entrance loca­weight champ 
40 It follows 52 Keats's "La Put in a few calls or sign up with a headhunter. **** 
tion 

"Repeat after Belle Dame CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You have probably taken on too much and
59 1939 movie set-

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 23 Sledding spot me" Sans made too many promises. Backtrack if you don't want to risk losing out financially. 
ting

2,5 Iranian coin You have to run a tight ship. *** 
45 Marius _, "the 53 Fur-trimmed 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Listen to yourself for a moment and then begin 
26 1980's-90's 60 Patron saint of 
garment
father of classi-again. You have to shake off negativity and back away from anyone who brings 
ensemble drama Norway
cal ballet" 54 Line of poetry you down so you can move forward and make progress. *** 28 Fashion PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Getting involved in a group can be a good thing 
63 Medicinal amt.

46 100 cents 55 Eye piece 
29 Of higher rank from a social standpoint. However, look for hidden costs in ariy group, organization than 48 One stocking 56 From the 64 File holders, for or deal you get involved in. *** 30 Sacred Hindu stockings States: Abbr. short 
Birthday Baby: You have a good mind and a vivid imagination. You have
book 
wonderful ideas and can be a strong influence in any group you join. You are a 31 Figure contributor and a participant.
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 32 "That's a lie!" credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenialast.com.
33 Claudius's suc­Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday cessor crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 statement past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 38 Shaggy-dog Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young story solvers: nytimes.com!learning/xwords. 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _________ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Thursday, January 13, 2005 
page 28 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Fumbled opportunity 
Huskies dorninate second halfas Irish lose second straight Big East contest 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
Connnctir.u t provml Wed nos­day it isn't ready to roll ovnr, dnspitn a rocky start to tho lluskins snason. Notrn Damn, on tho othor hand. now seos its chanens of a Big East lith~ slowly slipping away. 
With an H-4 Connecticut team in town and an opportu­nity to rebound at home after its first Big East loss against Villanova on Sunday, Notn~ Damn camo out at the Joyce Centnr and got completely dominated in the second half by the lluskies in a 67-50 loss. The Irish dropped to B-3 and 2-2 in Big East play, while Connncticut improved to 9-4 and 3-0 in the confnrnm~n. 
"Wn havn a game like this, and we nxpt~et our veteran playt~rs to step up and play well." Irish eoaeh MuiTnt 
see HOOPS/page 26 



Megan Duffy and the Irish struggled in the second half. Jacqueline Batteast struggled on 2-of-12 shooting Wednesday. 
Irish fell apart against a weaker Connecticut team 
The defending national champion Connecticut Huskies found their game Wednesday night at the Joyce Center, 
Heather Van and No.7 Hoegarden 
Notrn Dame lost its own. Sports Editor 
Connnetieut dominated tlu~ Irish in the second half en route to a 67-50 win. 
The Huskies rnbounded bet­ter, played better defense and most of all wanted the win more than the Irish. 
For Notre Dame, it was a bad loss. 
But wait, a loss to Connecticut-a nationalpow­erhouse -a bad loss'? 
Yes, that's right. a bad loss. 
This year's Huskies are not last year's team. They have 
struggled all season, losing games to Arizona State, Michigan State and Tennessee, games the Huskies of old would have won. It took over­time for Connectieut to beat South Florida at home. Wednesday's win over thn Irish was the Huskies' first win over a ranked opponent this sea­son. 
And so Notre Dame is left 

with a two-game losing streak and a nwdioern 2-2 Big East record. 
"We have a lot of work to do," Irish coach MuiTnt McCraw said. 
The Irish struggled most of the ganw. They played as if they were the underdogs of just a year ago. But they 
see BAD LOSS/page 26 
----============~======~==================================================~======== 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 

Linemen give their word 
Paul Duncan and Michael Turkovich commit verbally 
By MIKE GILLOON Spons Writer 
Notrn Damn rneeivnd a ver­bal commitment from one of the top high school quarter­hacks in the country this sumnwr. Six months later. tlw Irish havn found some players 

Photo Courtesy of Rlvals.com 
Paul Duncan is rated No. 20 among offensive linemen. 

to proted him. 
Offensive linemen Paul Duncan and Michael Turkovich are the ninth and I Oth additions to Charlie Weis' l'irst Irish recruiting class after making their ver­bal commitments during a visit to campus this past weekend. 
Notre Dame quarterback reeruit Evan Sharpley was excited by the deeision of his future teammates. 
"They're a couple of big dudes," Sharpley said. "They should really be able to help our team out." 
Duncan, from East Paulding High School in Dallas, Ga, is ratnd the 20th-best lineman in the nation and has earned a four-star rating from Scout.com. Standing 6-foot-6 and weighing 2SH pounds, he is projeeted to play offpnsive tackle for the Irish. 
"What I like about Notre Dame is the tntdition they have and the academics that an~ so strong," Duncan said on Scout. com. "I fen I that 

Photo Courtesy of Rivals.com 

Michael Turkovich coverted from tight end to lineman. 
Notre Dame can get back to what it once was and the excitement involved in that is pretty enticing." 
Mike Frank of lrisheyes.com believes Dum~an is a promis­ing player. 
"He was wanted by a lot of big-time schools like Oklahoma and LSU," Frank said. "lie is a huge pick-up for Notre Dame." 
After playing tight end dur­
see RECRUITS/page 25 
FooTBALL 

New assistants bring experience, specialty 
Weis adds football minds and recruiters to Irish staff 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Associate Sporrs Ediwr 

Evon with his current team trying to win its third Super Bowl in four years, new Notre Dame head coach Charlie Weis has done his homework in assembling a new coaching staff for the 2005 season. 
Weis' staff includes former head coaches like quarter­backs coach David Cutcliffe, Notre Dame alumni like ol'fen­sive coordinator/running backs coach Miehael Haywood and even current NFL assistants like defensive backs coach Bill Lewis. 
"Well, the first thing I want­ed to do, I wanted some people with Notre Dame ties as part of the staff," We is said at a press conference .Jan. <J. "I thought that that was onn thing coming in. 
"When I was assmnbling the staff, I wanted to find a few people at least with Notre Dame tins ... /that/ was one of the promises, one of the foun­dations of my thought process." 
Another important l'aetor in Weis' choice of his staff was to balanen the new group of coaches betwP.en two key strnngths -knowlndge of fun­damentals of the game and recruiting. Haywood. who comes to Weis' staff after spending the 2004 season on the staff of Texas eoaeh Mack Brown, is one such highly touted recruiter. 
"I wanted to go out there and lind tiJP. guys who had tho bnst foundations in recruiting, and at thn same time I wanted 
sec ASSISTANTS/page 24 
en 
SMC BASKETBALL 
NFL 

BOXING 
NCAA BASKETBALL
NBA 
CBA 
LLI 

Saint Mary's 66 
Pennington sits 

King sues ESPN 
Texas A&M 74

Br~ant returns to 
Jatson Williams 
z Adrian 61 
out practice 
re urns 
Texas 63

Co orado . 
Famous boxing pro­
li: :3 (.) 
Emily Creachbaum 
The retired former
The New York Jets did 

mater Don King is suing 
Kobe Bryant said he 
The Aggics upset the
C) c:s 
scored 24 points as the 
not practice their quar­

for $2.5 billion after he 
was not concerned 
Nets star signed a con-
Longhorns in College 
D. c:c ti 
Belles earned an impor­
terback Wednesday due 

believed ESPN defamed 
returning to the state of 
tract with the Idaho 
Station, led by 24 points 
tant conference win. 
to illness. 

his name. 
his recent trial. 
Stampede. 
from Acie Law IV. 

en 
page 25 
page 22 
page 21 
page 20 

page 18 
page 16 







