---·----------~ --------------~

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 39: ISSUE 120 FRIDAY. APRILS, 2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Scaffolding to be partially retnoved in tinte for graduation 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 

Throughout his dialogue with tlw administration regarding the dome re-gilding, senior chL'>S pres­idf'nt l>arn~ll Scott prayed at the <;rotto to thn Virgin Mary and askf'd that she be uncovered for his chL'is's graduation. 
!lis prayPrs hav<' b(~en answered. i\f'tnr sevf'ral weeks of' rwgotia­tion and student outcry, <~xeeutive 
vil:e fHPsidPnt .John i\ITleck­(;raves said Thursday that the scallillding will be rmnovnd down to the has<~ of' the golden dome lbr graduation. 
Work will continue on the Dome a<; scheduled until May 5, Affieck­Graves said. At that time, the scaf­folding will be taken down to the biL'>e of the dome itself. a process that-barring any inclement weather -will be completed by the following Thursday and allow the Dome to be uncovered for graduation weekend. Work<Jrs will begin rebuilding the scal'l'olding May 14. i\llleck-Graves said. and will hopefully be able to resume re-gilding on the following Thursday or Friday -bringing the time required for the entire procedure to a little over two weeks. 
To. ensure the re-gilding is still completed by Oct. 1, Affleck­Graves said workers will be work­ing longer hours, especially on 


John Paul II remembered fondly 
Professor recounts Pontiff embraced 1987 visit with pope youth of the world 
By KATE ANTONACCI By MEGHANNE DOWNES A"m·iate N<·ws F.diror Senior SraffWrirer 
Over 2.5 million fresh llowcrs Veronica Denton vividly remem­adorned San Fernando bers Pope .John Paul II telling thcl Catlwdral in San i\ntonio, Texas youth in the crowd to carry on his on S~~pt. 1 3, 1 9 8 7. the day mission since "they were young Father Virgilio Elizondo, visiting and he was old." She was at World professor in Notre Dame's Youth Day 2002 in Toronto and Latino studies department. jok­the crowd erupted into a chant of ingly d<lscribes as the "day the "the pope is young, the pope is pop(~ canw to visit me." young." 
"We even had his coat or arms "He laughed quietly and said in llownrs," Elizondo said with a that 81 is not the same as 18 or smile. 20," the Notre Dame senior said. 
As rector ol' the cathedral. "He was old and he was relying on Elizondo warmly welcomed us to continue the work he had Pope John Paul II to the popu­begun." lar. centrally-located church. This explanation describes the which currently draws over backbone of the pope's mission to 
5.000 participants to W(~ekend reach out to youth and to speak Masses each week ol' the year. directly to the individuals whom 
"I did the traditional rever­he called the "lifeblood of the (\!len or kissing his ring," said Church." l:lizondo. who was named one Beginning in 1985, World Youth of tlw century's leading Day has brought hundreds of "Spiritual Innovators -New thousands of young Catholic adull'> Lights of the Spirit" by Time together to learn about their faith MagazinP in Dee. 2000. "Then I and to encourage greater ministry gavn him an 'abrazo' [Spanish and involvmnent in the Church. for 'hug'!. I grePLed him the way "World Youth Day is the I gn;,<'t my !'ather or grandl'a­Church's day !'or youth and with 
Liu~r. youth. This idea is not an alterna­l·:lizondo said the pope had Photo by RUBIN ALFARO tive to ordinary youth ministry. 
Father VIrgilio Elizondo greets Pope John Paul II atradltlonally sec POPE/page 4 with a hug at the San Fernando Cathedral In San Antonio In 1987. see YOUTH/page 6 


Indiana legislature considers daylight-saving 
As any Notre Dame student Travis GaiT, a senior Zahm resi­change.
By KAREN LANGLEY 
knows, the current clock situa­dent, said he believes the bill is a "We do experience some mis­
News Writer 
tion in South Bend means a good idea. understanding, particularly each weekend trip to Chicago is a one "I think it's silly," he said. "I time the zones shift," associate While the most of the nation hour time diiTerence -but only think the whole state should be director of admissions Alisa "sprung ahead" one hour this from October through April. one way or the other. It won't Fisher said. "Although we advise weekend, St. .Joseph County and "[ guess it's only an inconven­hurt anyone to switch time zones, prospective students and their otlwr parL'> of Indiana remained ience," Pangborn junior Clare but it would be easier on every­families that our zone is unique on Ea'itern Standard Time. Desmond said. "I've lived in Ohio one if we just went one way or when arranging their campus 
I lowever, this aversion to day­and Illinois, on both sides of the the other." visit appointments and have light-saving time may bn almost time zone. It's inconvenient here Current students are not the reminders in our printed materi­ov<~r. as the~ state legislature is set because you are more likely to only ones affected by Indiana's als. many families do arrive to consider a bill which would miss a TV show or forget to practice -prospective students either an hour early or late for havn all thn state's counties change the settings on some­and other visitors are often con­obsnrvn daylight-saving time. thing." fused by the fluctuating time sec TIME /page 6 
Glee Club sings for sick senior 
By KATHY LEE News Writer 
One Notre Dame Glee Club member's struggle with can­cer has led to mobilization 
and  unity  for  the  entire  
group.  
It began with  a  "splitting  

headache" in early November of 2004 that kept Coleman Barker sick all day. Barker, a senior pre-med/philosophy major, assumed he had the flu, and University Health Services gave him medicine to take the nausea away. However, even after a week, Barker's headache persisted. 
The second time he went to University Health Services, no doctors were on call. lie was forced to go to St. Joseph Medical Center. Concerned that his headache had lasted a week. the doctors decided to perform a CT scan. 
Barker, who led an overall healthy lil'nstylc~. said his ini­tial reaction to tlw diagnosis was nothing short of a sur­prise. 
"I was really shocked," hn said. 
The shock came when doc­tors told him they had discov­ered a tumor in his brain that needed to be surgically removed. The neurosurgeon at St. Joseph Medical Center told Barker he would need to withdraw ·from classes and receive immediate treatment. 
Barker called his parents, who had already heard of the tumor from his doctors, and decided he would return home to his family in Sioux City, Iowa and choose 11 clinic for surgery. Barker then went through the tedious process of receiving signatures for withdrawal from his Glasses at Notre Dame. 
see BARKER/page 3 
page 2 

The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, April 8, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WOULD YOU EVER TRY OUT TO BE THE LEPRECHAUN? WHY OR WHY NOT? 
An unfailing spirit 
I always knew that studying abroad would prove to be one of the most adventuresome times in my life -however, I did not antici­pate what would be in store for me while spending 
Kelly Meehan 
this semester in Rome. 

On Jan. 24, I had the opportu­News nity to see Pope Production John Paul II at 
Editor 

what was one of his last public addresses during his weekly papal audience held in an auditorium off of St. Peter's square. I did not real­ly know what to anticipate, but I was very anxious to be able to see the pope in person. 
When he was wheeled onto the stage it was apparent that his health was failing, but not his spir­it. I listened to his every word as he spoke five different languages to welcome people from all over the world to his Church. He spoke slowly and continually impressed upon the crowd his ideas for peace and his hope for a better future led by today's youth. 
It was in this past week as I watched the population of Rome double that my reflection on attending his audience really impacted me. Living less than one mile from the Vatican, it is appar­ent that John Paul touched the lives of so many. I am reminded of this fact by watching the increas­ing number of pilgrims arrive to Vatican City each day and stand in line for over twelve hours ­through the heat of day and chill of night-just to have a 30-second glimpse at his body. 
I was fortunate enough to have only waited for five hours to view the pope. Waiting in line was per­haps the best part of the entire experience. It gave my friends and I an opportunity to meet the people who came from so far to listen to the devotions and songs being offered to the pope in the square. 
It is anticipated that the Pope's funeral would be regarded as the largest manifestation of humans in modern history with over 3 million people in attendance, all pushing to be part of John Paul II's life. 
My experience here became more unbelievable when I learned I would be one of the fortunate peo­ple in the Vatican City on Friday morning. Starting at 6 a.m., I will be babysitting the children of a Swiss Guard who lives in an apart­ment bordering St. Peter's square. 
When I left for Rome I did not 
know what to expect, but I do 
know that being a witness to the 
events marking the death of Pope 
John Paul II has increased my 
understanding of the world com­
munity and proven to be one of the 
most incredible experiences of my 
life. 








Todd Torres Meg Hunter-Kilmer Brad Jenkins Danice Brown John-Michael Kirkconnell
junior grad student sophomore sophomore 
senior

Siegfried Fischer Grad Knott Lewis 
.Dillon 

"Is there such a "Sure! I've been "Does the "No, I'd rather "Actually. I'm thing as a working on Leprechaun heckle the already trying Portuguese growing my need hair?" Leprechaun. " out for 
Ky Bertoli 
senior Dillan 
"No, I'm British." 
leprechaun?" beard." 

OFFBEAT 
Cookie Monster cuts back 
NEW YORK -The "Cookie Monster" is straightening up his act. 
"Sesame Street's" beloved blue, furry monster is going to learn some lessons about moderation as the children's show kicks off its 36th sea­son on PBS. 
"Cookie Monster" will now advocate eating healthy. His "C is for cookie" song has been replaced with a new song -"A Cookie Is a Sometimes Food." 
There's more. 
The show's vice president of research and education says each episode will open with a "health tip" and there will be new characters -like talking eggplants and carrots. 
Show producers say with the rise in childhood obesity, "Sesame Street" is focusing on teaching children about healthy foods and physical activity. 
Alarm wakes heavy sleepers 
CAMBRIDGE -A 25­year-old Massachusetts Institute of Technology stu­dent has invented a revolu­tionary alarm clock that makes sleepyheads find it to quiet it. 
Designed to overcome abuse of the snooze feature on most alarm clocks, Gauri Nanda's "Clocky" falls to the floor and rolls away on the first push of the snooze but­ton. 
To turn it off. a person must get out of bed and find it. 
The clock features two rubber wheels and is cov­ered in thick, 1970s-style shag carpet and other mate­rial to cushion it when it tumbles to the floor. 
A built-in computer chip randomly decides how far the clock will roll, so it stops in a different place each morning. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Underpants Gnome, and I think it would be a conflict of interest." 
IN BRIEF 
"Children and Childhood in Greco-Roman Antiquity," an international conference spon­sored by the Department of Classics, the Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts (Henkels Lecture Series) and the Office of the Provost is being held in McKenna Hall Friday 9:15 
a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and Saturday 9:15a.m. to 4:00p.m. This event is free and open to the public. 
The Saint Mary's Social Work Program will sponsor a "Compassionate Listening Workshop" community forum from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. today in Stapleton Lowtgc in LeMans !!all. 
Canadian fiddler Natalie McMaster, who has performed with musicians such as Luciano Pavarotti, Faith Hill and Carlos Santana, will perform tonight at 8 
p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The Student Union Board will be showing the movie "Closer" Friday and Saturday nights at 8 
p.m. and 10:30 p.m. in DeBartolo 
101. Tickets are three dollars. 
African drumming group Club Rhythm will be performing tonight from 10 p.m. to midnight at Legends. Admission to the event is free. 
RECESS! Sponsored by O'Neill Hall will take place Saturday from 1 p.m. to 3 on the McGlinn Fields. Relive your grade school days and enjoy free food and games including kickball, dodge­ball, wiffieball, bocce ball and four square. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 
The views expressed in the Inside 
0::
Column are those of the author and UJ not necessarily those ofThe Observer. ::::t: Contact Kelly Meehan at !;ikmeehaO 1 @saintmarys. edu UJ 
3: 
.....
cs:

CORRECTIONS (.) ...I 0 HIGH 64 HIGH 65 HIGH 70 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­LOW 34 LOW 38 LOW 40 ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we 
will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, 
Atlanta 69 I 54 Boston 64 1 47 Chicago 53 I 36 Denver 70 I 40 Houston 77 I 52 Los Angeles 73 I 55 Minneapolis 63 I 40
please comact us at 631-4 541 so we can 
New York 65 I 50 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 76 I 52 Seattle 54 I 42 St. Louis 61 I 43 Tampa 81 I 64 Washington 74 I 50
correct our error. 

35 33 


HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

Friday, April 8, 2005 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Barker 
continued from page 1 
An active member ol' the Notn• l>anw Glee Club, Barker also had to leave the club. Al'tt~r learning of his cancer, llw (>0-voict~ club decided to dtHlicate tlwir 2004-2005 sea­son to Barker by wearing a turtlt~ pin on their tuxedos for concerts in his honor. 
Barker said nillle of his friends at Notre 
Damn  ld  him  
down.  As  he  
parked  his 

up "Cole is, arguably, a 
belongings for huge impact on the move back the nicest guy this school year. honw. they canw anyone will ever Several Glee to his aid. Club members
know."
"l'eopln were visited Barker great," Barker and have been said. "I got lots Adrian Chlu supporting him 
of hugs, and Glee Club member through his sur­
apy and radiation treatments, Barker went back to Sioux City. Since then, he has been undergoing more chemother­apy and resting at home. 
After he completes chemotherapy treatments in Michigan City, Ind. in August, Barker hopes to reenroll at Notre Dame in the fall to graduate in the spring of 2006. 
Acknowledging Barker's importance to the Notre Dame Glee Club. many members 
have agreed his 
being diagnosed 
with a cancer 
has made 
tiH~y were all helping me g('t rt~ady.. to go homo. 
Upon rPturning to Sioux City. ht' nl!'t with doctors and discusst'd tlw best options for his operation. 
On Nov. 1H, Barknr under­went surgPry at the Mayo Clinic in Hodwster, Minn. The doctors effectively removed an Hx6 centimeter cancerous tumor from his right frontal lolw and declared the surgery a success without any compli­cations. Soon after, Barker lwgan rt~eeiving chemothera­py at thn Mayo Clinic. In l>nct~mbnr, hn went home for Christmas, returning to the Clinic Nov. 27 for radiation tn~atnwn t. 
Finally. on Feb. 5. 2005, after six wt~eks of chcrnother­
gery and treat­
ment. Glee Club 
Treasurer Thomas Hichardson said he noticed how anxious Barker was to return to Notre Dame. 
"The only thing he really wanted to do was come back to school after it was over," Thomas said, "so I really hope everything works out for him." 
Glee Club members have constantly voiced their sup­port and respect for Barker. 
"Cole is, arguably, the nicest guy anyone will ever know," member Adrian Chiu said, adding he hopes Barker will be able to return to his "nor­mal life" after his treatments. 
Paul Sifuentes, Glee Club President, said he believes Barker will not return to that normal life but rather will use the events of the past few months in a positive way. 
"Cole will usc this experi­ence to help others," Sifuentes said. "I Ie has a way of reaching to other people in a humble. way that amazes 
me." 
To be in solidarity with Barker, many Glee Club mem­bers have chosen to shave their heads for the "Brothers in Song" benefit concert Sunday. 
Barker will arrive on cam­pus today to meet with sever­al University administrators and to attend the Glee Club's benefit concert on Sunday. 
On April 10, at 7:30 p.m .. the Notre Dame Glee Club will be performing a benefit con­cert entitled 'Brothers in Song: Coleman Barker Beneflt Concert' in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts to aid the Barker family. Additional proceeds in excess of the Barker family's needs will go to the American Cancer Society, a group cho­sen by Barker. An American Cancer Society representative will be present at the concert with additional information on cancer education. The Glee Club hopes to make $10,000 from the concert by selling ads in the program, tickets sold and receiving extra donations from concertgoers. Tickets for the benefit are $5 for students and seniors and $10 for general admission and can be purchased by call­ing the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 631-2800. 
Contact Kathy Lee at klee7@nd.edu 

Donte 
continued from page 1 
Originally, Aff1eck-Graves said Scott and Istvan's plan was not feasible, since it would push the ­estimated completion datn beyond the absolute deadline of Oct. 1, when frost will become a factor. 
However, due to a miscommu­nication, Affieck-Graves said he thought Scott and Istvan wanted the scaffolding removed from not only the gold part of the dome but the 'drum' as well. 
Therefore, the plan Afneck­Graves presented to the contrac­tors incorrectly called for the scaf­folding to be completely removed from the entire dome structure, not just the gold, and was conse­quently deemed unfeasible. 
"I was under the impression [Scott and Istvan! wanted the drum to be visible as well," Aff1eck-Graves said. "It was a misunderstanding. We never spoke about the actual level for the scaffolding." 
When the proposal was not accepted, students reacted to AITieck-Gravcs's response with anger. Some saw the administra­tion as turning a deaf ear to their complaints. 
Behind the scenes, though. Affleck-Graves was pushing University ofl1cials in charge of the project to keep pursuing the possibility of removing the scaf­folding. Unbeknownst to him, the plan he articulated Thursday would be exactly the same plan Scott and Istvan originally pro­posed to him. 
"I wanted to be very honest." AfTieck-Graves said. "I didn't want to mislead and allude to the possi­bility if it wasn't going to happen. But we knew all along we were going to push the contractors as hard as we could." 

Meanwhile, Scott and Istvan ­
though still hoping for the 
removal of the scall'olding-were 
pursuing alternative plans that 
would attempt to compensate for 
the sea!l'olding-covered Dome. 
"We were discussing possibili­ties that would help shift the tide and would help to show that the University docs care about the studcnl'i," Scott said. 
Scott said when he was pleas­antly surprised when told his original plan had been approved. 
"Now the seniors can take a picture on graduation day with Our Lady unscaiToldcd and the Dome glistening," Scott said. 
Seniors shared in Scott's ela­tion. 
"It's very exciting. I think it's a wonderful gesture," senior Laura I Iammond said. "Usually what the University says is linal. so I appre­ciate them compromising." 
Though she is pleased the University has responded to sen­iors' pleas, senior Casey Hotclla said it is unlbrtunate more cannot be done. 
"I wish they could takn itlw scall'oldingl all down." slw said. "Our class has gone through a lot. but at least I the administration is I listening to us." 
AITleck-Gravcs said he was pleased constructive dialogue was able to achieve an agreement that will help ealm studcnl<;' worries. 
"I want the senior class to know that their representatives have represented them in a very, very professional way," Affieck-Graves said. "The administration is always trying to do the best it can for its students. sometimes we are just faced with di!licult choices." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 




G-reat New l00k 
sat~te 

FUN PLACE 

·Walking distance to class & yourfavor1te bars ·Check out hotties at our pool
·Get upgraded with a 42" Prasma TV in your apartmentConvenient ·Protect your car under our carports
to campus 

tollfree 1-866-395-4201 
0

www.a1mco.com 1710 Turtle Creek Drive South Bend, IN 
Friday, April 8, 2005

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
different indigenous groups," (WYD) celebration in Home. "I think it was a very Christo­would be a positive step in the Elizando said. "When he said Every other year, the pope held centric spirituality," Elizondo Catholic Church. 
Pope 

'America,' he spoke of the whole a WYD, where he encouraged said. "At the very basis, even in "Catholicism is really a world hemisphere. When he was the world's youth to live the the way he held his staff. was family." Elizondo said. "Having a
continued from page 1 
talked about the U.S., he said gospels and reach out in a spirit Christ. As [Pope John Paul Ill pope from one of those countries great energy and vibrancy, 'the· United States,' not of evangelization to their peers, said, 'Christ is the answer."' would be a wise choice." which excited him and the other 'America."' Elizondo said. In addition to being a man of Haising the bar young priests and brought great The pope brought with him "He has outreached to young great faith, Elizondo described Though John Paul II is often humanity to the Holy Father. heightened awareness of pover­people," Elizondo said, who the pope as "a man of tremen­identified as a conservative fig­
"He was joking in Spanish, ty and restrictive social struc­attended WYD in Denver, Paris dous talents," who was interest­ure in the Catholic Church. English and Tex-Mex,'' Elizondo tures to every country he visited. and Rome. ed in poetry. languages, sports many believe he is still one of said. "It was not a solemn occa­"He had a very sincere con­The pope connected to youth and even acting. the most significant. He believed sion. It was a fiesta, and the cern for the poor," Elizondo said. in a unique way, Elizondo said, "He carried that theatrical very strongly in devoting energy pope was leading it." "He brought it to the level of calling them, with confidence, to part into the papacy," Elizondo to spreading the message to After formally addressing nations -he challenged the be dedicated to achieving great­said. "People connected with people around the world and 
h. ,
those in the cathedral. the pope rich nations to address these ness. Jill. people of all ages, Elizondo said. went to a room in the rectory to issues." "He never challenged them to "lie raised the bar very high repose. Pope John Paul also encour­be like anyone else. He called Next step for the Church for the expectations of the papa­
"We spoke primarily in aged new evangelization and them to be great with the talents With Pope John Paul Il's death cy, on the world level," Elizondo Spanish and French. We gave finding new ways to communi­God has given them," Elizondo on Saturday, a whirl of discus­said. "For example, he chal­him the room-temperature cate the Gospel, Elizando said. said. sion began about his possible lenged communism, but also orange juice he asked for," said successor. 117 cardinals eligible what he called the 'savage capi­Elizondo. "He sat down and Dedication to the youth Man of great faith to vote in the Sacred College of talism' of the U.S. He was not relaxed a bit. He was tired -he Elizondo also remembers Pope Praying with John Paul II in Cardinals have the task of afraid to speak out." took off his collar and his John Paul II for his dedication to his private chapel in Home on choosing a new pope. Elizondo cited the pope's visits shoes." alleviating suffering and intoler­numerous occasions. Elizondo According to Elizondo, they to mosques. talking to '"so­
"These are some personal ance and his strong belief in the saw first-hand the deep faith of will not be looking for another called Christians' in Senegal" moments I will never forget," youth as the future of the the pope. John Paul II. and meeting with the President Elizondo said. "For me. it's been Church. "It was always very simple, "I don't think they'll come of the Uniwd Stat!~s to discuss a very profound spiritual "He always challenged young very silent,'' Elizondo said. "He close to filling his shoes because thP war in Iraq as timPs the moment to relive these moments people to greatness," Elizondo never read from the Bible, just it will be totally different shoes," pope emerged as not just a with the pope." said. "He said 'You know, if this prayed silently." he said. Catholic leader, but a world 
is the future of the Church and Elizondo said the pontiffs last Though he cannot predict who leader. Previous meetings society, we have nothing to words were fitting, as they the cardinals will choose to be "I would classify him as a 
The intimate meeting in San worry about.'" encapsulated his spirit and deep the next leader of the Roman great visionary," Elizondo said. Antonio was not the first time In 1985, Pope John Paul II faith in the Lord -"I surrender Catholic Church, Elizondo said a Elizondo, the 1997 recipient of called young people to join him myself to Christ, who has always pope from a Latin American or Contact Kate Antonacci at the Notre Dame's Laetare for the first World Youth Day been my strength and my joy." African nation, for example, kantonac@nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION
Friday, April 8, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mexico strips mayor of immunity 
MEXICO CITY -Mexico's Congress 
stripped Mexico City's leftist mayor of his 
!mrnunity from prosecution Thursday, clear­
Ing the way for his arrest in a vote that could 
also block him from running in the 2006 
presidential race. 
The Ilouse vote against Mexico City Mayor Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, similar to impeachment, could force him to stand trial on chargos he disobnyed a court order to stop construction of a road on contested pri­vatt~ land. It em~ctively removes him from orticc. 
Earlier in the day, the populist mayor told a rally of ovnr I00,000 supportnrs in the capi­tal's central plaza that he would turn himself in. go to jail, rd'ust) to accept bail and later rPprnsmll himself in court against charges. 
Pope had considered resigning 
VATICAN CITY-Pope John Paul II, weighed down by illness and age, considered n1signing as he turned 80 in 2000, according to his last will and testament published Thursday. The pope also wrote of tormented times for himself and the church and left instructions for his notes to be burned. 
The document. written in several entries ovN 22 years, provides oxtraordinary insight into tlw popn's thinking in the twilight of his life as lw rrlleetml about death and his lega­ry, and as ho prayed for the "necessary . strPngth" to continue his missiorL 
"Tiw times in which we live are unutter­ably diiTicult and disturb11d," he wrote in ICJHO, according to the ofl1cial VatiCan trans­lation from Polish. "The path of the church has also become dil'licult and tense ... both for the faithful and for pastors." that rein­fo rn1d the a ceo rd. · 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Shooting spree leaves two dead 
I.AUHEI., Del. -A man wearing a bullet­proof vest killed two people and wounded four others Thursday during a shooting ram­page in Maryland and Delaware before police arrested him. authorities said. 
Police said the suspect also carjacked a VPhicle. shot and killed a dog, and rammed a sport utility vehicle into a house during the crime sproe. Delaware State Police Cpl. Jeff Oldham said authorities had determined a motive for the attacks, but were not releas­ing details. Police said the suspect. Allison L. Norman. 22. did not know any of the vic­tims. 
"Quite a morning for a little rural town," said Laurel's mayor, John Shwed. 
NASA prepares return to space 
PACE CENTEH, Houston -As she pre­pares to return a crew of astronauts to space, shuttle commander Eileen Collins said Thursday her crew won't fly if NASA doesn't meet a task force's safety recom­nwndations. 
"II' wn ever get to the point where a rnc­ornmendation is not filled in anyone's mind, wn are not going to fly," the retired Air Forcn colonnl said as she sat alongside her six-nwmber crew during a news conference at .Johnson Space Center in Houston. 
But the space agency's only femaln com­mander said she is conlident NASA has met all the requirements-and exceeded some. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Daylight-saving time vote pending 
INDIANAPOI.IS-A I louse vote was possible Thursday evening on a bill that seeks to man­date statnwide observance of daylight-time, but representatives had until Monday to approve the proposal and send it to the Senate. 
The bill's primary sponsor. Hepublican Hep. .Jerry Torr of Carmel. said he was unsure whether lw had the 51 votes needed to pass the bill on Thursday. IIe noted that two sup­porters of the controversial legislation were absent, which could hurt its chances. 
Co~\1PILED FROM T11E 0HSERVER's WIRE SERVICEs 
page 5 

Student's upset father shoots football coach 
Shooter likely angry over son's dismissal from high school athletic programs 
Associated Press 

CANTON, Texas -The father of a high school foot­ball player shot and wounded the team's coach Thursday, fled in a truck loaded with weapons. and then tried to kill himself by slashing his wrists, author­ities said. 
Jeffrey Doyle Hobcrtson, 45, went to Canton High School just after classes started and shot coach Gary Joe Kinne in the chest, apparently with a .45-calibcr pistol, police said. The coach, who also is the school's athletic director, was airlifted to a hospital in nearby Tyler, and a family spokesman said he was in critical con­dition. 
Hobertson's pickup was found about two hours later abandoned on a rural road next to a golf course a few miles outside town. Officers found him in the woods with cuts to his wrists. said Tom Yinger. a spokesman with the Department of Public Safety. 
Television footage showed Hobertson being carried to an ambulance on a stretcher. A balding man with a goatee, Hobertson had a tattoo on his arm of cartoon charac­said parent Steve Smith Sr., district Superintendent fight on the side of a high­ter Yosemite Sam bran­who described Robertson Larry Davis declined to way, he said. dishing two guns and the as "a very high-strung, hot­comment on Smith's accu­"The last conversation words "Born to Raise Hell." tempered individual." sations or complaints from that I had with him was 
Police were investigating Smith said Robertson other parents. "I have no that he really needed to a possible motive. On threatened his son last personal knowledge of learn how to control his Wednesday, Robertson's year -grabbing his shirt that," he said. temper or he was going to 
son, Baron, had apparently and pushing him up Robertson had worked get hurt worse than that," been banned from playing against a fence -over an for six years for Dallas Downs said. all school athletics. said on-field teasing. He said Plumbing Co., leaving in The state's Homeland Steve Smith Jr.. a senior Baron Hobertson, then a 2002 to start his own busi­Security Office had alerted who was a defensive end freshman. was walking off ness with another man. state officials about the and kicker on the team. the field when some older Dallas Plumbing President possibility that Hobcrtson 
The father had been students "razzed" him. John Downs described had a hit list. banned from the school's "This guy blew up," Robertson as a good But Chief Mike Echols campus and told not to Smith said. "He thought employee and a devoted said ofl1cers did not lind a attend school functions some kids were picking on father who enjoyed taking hit list on Hobcrtson when after several confronta­his son. My son wasn't his son hunting and fish­he was arrested, but tions with coaches over the even the one who said any­ing. authorities were trying to past year. Canton Police thing. But he threatened to The last time Downs saw get a warrant to search his Chief Mike Echols said. kill him." Robertson was about six truck, where several guns 
Some parents had been Smith said he complained months ago, when were visible. The upset that Kinne had made to the school and police, Robertson had a broken Ilomeland Security Office is his son the starting quar­but Hobertson was never leg, bruises and abrasions not part of the investiga­terback as a freshman, charged. Canton school from a road-rage-related tion. 

AP 

Canton High School students, left to right, Jessica Carroll, Jodi Morris and Kayiesha Brown, pray outside the school following an on-campus shooting incident Thursday in Canton, Texas. 
ROME 

World says goodbye to Pope John Paul II 
blew the pages. Joanna Zmijewsla, 24. who traveled for 
Associated Press 

A choir sang the Gregorian chant 30 hours with her brother from a town 
VATICAN CITY -Presidents, prime "Grant him Eternal rest o Lord" and the ncar Kielce, Poland, arriving at St. ministers and kings from around the service got under way. Peter's at 1 a.m. Friday. world joined hundreds of thousands of Cardinals wearing white miters American Archbishop James Harvey, pilgrims. prelates and other religious processed out onto the square, the wind head of papal protocol, greeted digni­leaders in paying a final farewell Friday whipping their red vestments. taries and religious leaders as they to Pope John Paul II in one of the Earlier, groggy pilgrims awoke in emerged from St. Peter's Basilica onto largest religious gatherings in the West their sleeping bags at dawn to slowly the steps. Many of the officials shook in modern times. gathering hordes of the faithful stepping I larvey's hand and oll'cred condolences 
Applause rang out in St. Peter's over them, eager to secure a good spot before mingling and taking their Square as John Paul's simple wooden to view the Mass in the square. The appointed scats. collin adorned with a cross and the "M" boulevard, Via della Conciliazione, was Turbans, fezzes. yarmulkes, black for Mary was brought out into the a sea of red and white flags waved by lace veils, or mantillas, joined the "zuc­windy square from the basilica and pilgrims from John Paul's beloved chettos," or skull caps, of Catholic placed on the ground in front of the Poland. prelates in an extraordinary mix of reli­altar. The book of the Gospel was "We just wanted to say goodbye to gious and government leaders from placed on the coffin and the breeze our father for the last time," said around the world. 
~--:­
Friday, April 8, 2005

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
impacted by the legislature's between ages 16 and 35 have simi­afraid." She wondered what the 1985, over a million young adults group, and told them "Be not 
decision, Professor Gerald
Ti01eYouth 
Frieling of the Mendoza encouraged to carry the Church's Pope John Paul II had not taken larly been united in faith and state of the Church would be if continued from page 1 Business School's 'Management 
continued from page 1 

Department explained there often carried out with great sacri­Theology professor Timothy adding the pope taught through message into the future. the initiative to focus on the. youth, 
their admissions information are still many practical reasons fice and self-denial," Pope John Matovina said the youth's admira­being an example of holiness. 
sessions and tours." for Indiana to make the change. Paul II wrote to Cardinal Eduardo tion for Pope John Paul II's pres­"He let us see that holiness is not 
Fisher said that in order to "Indiana not going on day­Francisco Pironio in May 1996. " ... ence, charisma and integrity fur­just some pious wish that can 
combat this problem, the Office light savings. time with the rest By aiming to foster greater fervor thered his goal of inviting the youth never really be attained," O'Brien 
of Undergraduate Admissions of the country is not business in apostolate among young people. to embrace their faith. He also said said. "It is real and realistic; it is 
has an "on-call" admissions friendly," he said. "Most travel on no account the Church desires the pope's dedication toward the something worth aspiring toward 
counselor available each day to is to the East. and with the to isolate them from the rest of the youth movement could be desig­... This call to holiness gives living 
meet with families who arrive exception of Chicago, most of community. but rather make them nated as one of Pope John Paul II's breath to the faith and makes it 
after sessions have begun. the business transactions and the protagonists of an apostolate top three influences on the Catholic not only part of our lives but our 
According to Annette communications are to the East which will spread to the other ages Church. with the others being the entire lives." 
Edwards, coordinator of office Coast. BccauSP or thP tinll' dif­and situations of life in the ambit of internationalization of the papacy Many said the pope was ellective 
services, the ofliee does not feel ferencp ibusinessPsl automati­'new evangelization."' and the appointment of more than because or hi.'i genuine approach of 
the bill will have a large effect cally losp two hours or produc­John Cavadini. chair of the theol­90 percent of the world's bishops reaching out toward tlw young 
on visitor mishaps. tive time at noon. as an exam­ogy department. believes the to exercise his goals. adults instead of simply believing 
"The proposed bill to bring ple. Indiana should stay in the pope's calling stemmed from his Matovina highlighted the impor­the youth would automatically 
daylight savings time to Indiana Eastern Time Zone and go on desire to reassure young adults in tance of Pope John Paulll's recog­embrace the Church and uphold 
will not adversely affect our daylight savings with the rest of this secular culture to embrace nition that the youth weren't just its teachings. 
office because we receive the country." their ideals and their hopes instead leaders of the future but could Ashley Oberst, a Saint Mary's 
national and international visi­Frieling said an amendment of their fears. offer value leadership within the sophomore, believes this action 
tors from a wide variety of time added to the bill would allow "I think he wanted to institution­Church today. was necessary for the Church's 
zones," she said. "There will each county to decide whether alize his own commitment to "He expressed tremendous con­survival, adding that other 
always be difficulty with 'the to take part in daylight-saving young people, and to institutional­fidence and belief in youth," Christian faiths have also recog­
time at Notre Dame' due to our time. ize his commitment to preach the Matovina said. "What he was nized the importance of including 
close proximity with Chicago "If [the bill] proceeds with no Good News to them," Cavadini always saying to young people is youth. She cited the growth in 
and the Central Time Zone. The changes, this provision would said. "He placed a lot of hope in you are blessed by God and you youth groups across the country as 
struggle we encounter on a cause chaos. and the bill should the youth of the world to act as have a calling to greatness ... there evidence of the youth renewal. 
daily basis is the misconception be killed." he said. "Right now agents of change for the better." is a tremendous optimism and "Educating youth to take action. 
with the term Eastern Standard it's anyone's guess as to what Denton said the pope offered hope for young people." whether that means voting in a 
Time. which is commonly will happen." youth hope and the ability to build For Matovina. the pope's connec­national election. or writing a letter 
known as 'New York' time." upon his "foundations of renewal." tion to pilgrims worldwide; specifi­to the local newspaper about a 
While students and visitors Contact Karen Langley at "I know that I and other young cally the younger generations. is recycling program. seems to be the 
may not be dramatically klangley@nd.edu people need world leaders to rec­evidenced in the reactions to the key factor in our American society ognize our potential to make a dif­Pope's death seen in the media and today, and it will continue to be an ference in the world and call us to stories he heard in the classroom issue for the Catholic Church," fulfill that potential," Denton said. from students who shared their Oberst said. 
Several said the pope's commit­own personal experiences. Though Oberst did not attend a ment to youth attracted many Though Cavadini was hesitant to World Youth Day event. she said young adults to uphold their compare Pope John Paul IJ's con­the pope's focus on youth inspired Catholic faith. creating a move­nection to the youth to his prede­her to become more entrenched in ment of heightened awareness. cessors. he said he did not believe her faith. She believes the popular­Notre Dame sophomore Molly other pontiffs expressed such a ity of this movement in the church Harding said. She added that continuous desire and outreach to inspired youth to voice their opin­recognition from high-ranking youth as Pope John Paul II. ions on politics and technology in Church officials propelled this "Pope John Paul II could com­light of their beliefS. awareness. empowering youth to municate affection very powerfully. "Because I know someone influ­take ownership of their faith. and this warmth or affection was ential was rooting for me. so-to­
Harding witnessed this commit­so obviously unfeigned that it speak, I have since challenged ment and reaffirmation of faith evoked an affection and admira­myself to learn more about topics when she attended World Youth tion in return," Cavadini said. facing our society and how my Day in Toronto. She said the pope "Young people respond, as they faith may help me to take a stance united the faithful across barriers should, to idealism and to those on an issue," Oberst said. of language and culture. adding who obviously care about them." the connections she made with The pope's ability to connect Contact Meghanne Downes at other pilgrims were "indescrib­with the youth in his flock was not mdownesl @nd.edu able." solely confined to the annual World 
"I entered an individual. but Youth Day events. became a member of something Colleen O'Brien. a. Saint Mary's much larger and more meaningful junior who prayed the rosary with that I wasn't even aware existed," the pope last year, said the pope Harding said. strove to make a connection with 
Since World Youth Day began in the youth. an often-overlooked 
2839 N. 5th st. Niles, Ml Doors at 7 PM 18 and over 269-684-1790 
must be 21 with valid 10 to drink 

April 8th & 9th 7:30PM Washington Hall $10 Reserved Seating. $5 Senior C1tizens/Students T.ckets avanable at LaFortune Box Offiee can 574_631 .6211 for information 
L__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ _ 

THE OBSERVER 
Friday, April 8, 2005 
USINESS 
page 7 


MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,546.32 +60.30
}ones 
~' 

Up: Same: Dowll: Composite Volume: 2,059 
166 • 1,896,320,710 
AMEX 1,477.69 ~2.99 NASDAQ 2,018.79 +19.65 
NYSE 
7,227.08 +35.90 S&PSOO I, 191.14 +7.07 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 11,810.99 0.00 
FTSE IOO(London) 4,977.00 +29.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE NASD<\0 IOOTRSERI(QQQQ) +1.21 +0.44 36.94 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +I 74 +0.43 25.10 INTEL CP (INTC) + 1.56 +0.36 23.41 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +2.14 +0.38 18.15 SIEBEL SYSTEMS (SEBL) +5.21 +0.43 8.69 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.91 +0.43 47.85 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.81 +0.36 44.72 5-YEAR NOTE +0.76 +0.31 41.20 3-MONTH BILL -0.07 -0.02 27.00 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.74 54.11 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -0.80 428.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.70 92.75 
Exchan Rates 

YEN 
I 08.6300 EURO 
0. 7781 POUND 
1.5345 CANADIAN$ 
1.2226 

IN BRIEF 
New head elected to NYSE board 
NEW YOHK -The former chairman and 
chief executive officer of a Boston investment 
11rm was elected chairman of the New York 
Stock Exchange's board of directors, the 
exchange said Thursday. 
Former State Street Corp. executive Marshall 
N. Carter had been the front-runner to succeed John Heed. the former co-CEO of Citigroup Inc. who took over the chairmanship in 2003 after former chairman and CEO Richard A. Grasso resigned amid controversy over his pay pack­age. 
"It's a great privilege to chair the board of the world's leading equities market," Carter said in a statement. "My colleagues on the board of directors. the board of executives and the man­agement team will continue to ensure the pre­eminence of the NYSE and America's capital marketplace." 
Carter joined State Street in 1991 as president and chief operating officer, then became CEO in 1992 and added the post of chairman in 1993. lie retired in 2001. 
Prescription drugs pulled by FDA 
WASIIINGTON -The blockbuster painkiller Bextra was yanked off the market Thursday, and the government ordered that 19 other popular prescription competitors -from Celebrex to Mobic to high-dose naproxen ­carry tough new warnings that they, too, may increase the risk of heart attacks and strokes. 
The warnings encompass an entire class of anti-inflammatory medicines called NSAIDs that arc the backbone of U.S. pain treatment, not just newer versions of the painkillers ini­tially suspected when the heart concerns made headlines last fall. 
The warnings -in black boxes, the strongest the rood and Drug Administration can order -arc likely to cause confusion because they won't tell patients and doctors which of these prescription drugs is a safer choice. 
In addition. the I;DA will make over-the­counter NSAIDs, or nonsteroidal anti-inllam­matory drugs. such as ibuprofen. naproxen and ketoprofen bear stronger reminders to take only low doses for a few days at a time to avoid the same risks of high-dose, long-term use. 
Pump shock sets in as gas rises higher 
Government experts claim prices will not drop below two dollars per gat/on 
Associated Press 

WASIIINGTON -There's 
pump shock at every corner 
gas station, with prices well 
over $2 a gallon and still ris­
ing. And the government 
says you better get used to 
it. 

The Energy Department 
projects high gasoline prices 
and $50-plus crude oil at 
least through next year as 
producers struggle to keep 
up with demand. 

The department said Thursday it expects gasoline prices to average $2.35 a gallon nationwide in May, the dawn of the heavy sum­mer driving season. Motorists paid an average of $2.22 a gallon last week, 44 cents more than a year ago. 
If anyone thinks prices will dip below $2, once a benchmark rarely seen, they're mistaken, says Guy Caruso. head of the Energy Information Administration, the DOE's statistical agency. 
Caruso said the forecast is for prices to average $2.jk28 a gallon through September and remain high after that, well into 2006, mainly because of lingering high crude oil prices and growing demand. He said crude prices, which briefly reached $58 this week, are likely to stay above $50 a barrel well into next year. 
Ironically, just as the fed­eral officials were talking Flynn said in a telephone demand for both crud-e and increase over last summer, about higher prices, crude interview. "The shock value gasoline, government and and the highest on record. tumbled nearly $2 a barrel of $2 gasoline has gone private analysts said. "There is very little spare to just over $54 a barrel and away. It's a part of life. How "You've got demand fore­(production) capacity," said gasoline futures fell nearly long that can go on we don't casts that are clearly going Caruso, referring both to 11 cents before slightly know." up," says John Felmy, chief global crude oil markets and 
rebounding Thursday on the In fact, motorists grum­economist for the American U.S. gasoline production. New York Mercantile bling about high fuel costs Petroleum Institute, the While the governmentExchange. might be heartened by the trade group for large oil reported this week that U.S. 
Will that have any impact fact that, in today's dollars, companies. He said refiner­gasoline and crude invento­on prices at the pump? gas cost $3.15 a gallon ies are running all-out to ries were significantly high­"Probably not," said Phil when fuel spiked in 1981 meet growing demand. er than a year ago at this Flynn, senior market ana­because the Iran-Iraq war Clearly motorists aren't time, those statistics may be lyst at Alaron Trading Corp. affected production in both easing off the roads. misleading. Because of in Chicago. countries. The Energy Information more expected demand the 
"We're in a new era of At the core of today's high Administration reported amount of oil in terms of high gas prices. The econo­prices is tight supply -or Thursday that gasoline days' supply is below his­my is strong and people the expectation of it just demand for this summer is toric levels and is expected don't care as much as they around the corner -at a projected to be 9.3 million to remain so through 2006, did. It's kind of weird," time of and growing barrels a day, a 1.8 percent EIA analysts predicted. 

U.S. retailers report n1ixed March sales 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Snow and sleet last month left few consumers in a mood to shop. But with spring finally set­tling in, retailers are likely to see their business thaw, and maybe even blossom. 
Hardly anyone wanted to buy light­weight or pastel-colored clothes. And so the nation's retailers struggled with mixed sales -heavyweights Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and Limited Brands had results that fell short of expectations when merchants released their sales figures Thursday. 
Still, analysts said. it wasn't all that bad. Teenagers, perhaps the hardiest of shoppers, gave youth-oriented apparel sellers including Abercrombie & Fitch Co. and Bebe Stores Inc. a solid month. And the analysts say consumers are still upbeat about spending despite oil 
prices in the $50 range and the 
threat of rising interest rates. 
March results "shows consumers 
are still resilient, but cautiously 
spending," said retail analyst Rachel 
Schechter at Thomson Financial in 
New York. "The theme that I've 
noticed is that teen retailers are 
paving the way for some great 
results," while department stores, 
which tend to attract older shoppers, 
put in a more mixed performance, 
Schechter added. 
Even some upscale retailers like Neiman Marcus Group Inc., which have benefited in recent months from the improving economy, were hurt by the weather. Other March underper­formers included moderately priced ·J.C. Penney Co. Inc., whose sales soundly missed estimates, and dis­count department store operator Kohl's Corp., which had an unexpect­
ed drop in business. 
Discounter Target Corp. was among the winners, easily beating forecasts. 
March is an important month for retailers because it sets the tone for spring sales. This year, March took on added importance since it includ­ed Easter. which typically marks the biggest surge in consumer spending between New Year's and Memorial Day. 
However, an expected sales boost from the Easter holiday failed to materialize, as last month's nasty weather kept people away from stores. 
"Despite the favorable Easter shift, sales came in all over the place, reflecting unfavorable weather and tough comparisons," with unseason­ably cold weather hampering demand for spring merchandise, Merrill Lynch analyst Mark Friedman wrote in a research note. 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 8 Friday, April 8, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDI10R IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Par Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDI10R: Mike Gilloon SCENE EmroR: Rama Gorrumukkala SAINT MARY's EmroR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDIIDR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDIIDR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRA10R: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRA10R: Jim Coulter CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
0FACE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 FAX (574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 

NEWS DESK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK smc.1@nd.edu PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspap<:r 
published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemeilts based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries,letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free t:Xpression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to rhe Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Obmverpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiifMatt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th~ Oh~ervc:t {USPS 5~ 2~4000) is publlWd Monday dlrough l~day ex..:ept Juring o..uu .uu.l vacation p«irnb. A'u~cripcion to TheOhlerver iii $100 for .one :academic ye-M: $55 fotune~~Cmc;tc:r. 
The Ob~net U publiJhed ac I'OSTMASTER 024 Sourh Diu.i.n" H;~ll Send ~ddR."'iS cortt:etion' to: Nou(' Dame:-, IN 46556-0771) The ObR:-rvtr P<.'fiOOicU po~tage paid at Nom: D.une 1~0. Boll: 779 and addition.! mai.linK offiu:). 024 Sauth Dining Hall 

Notrt D.unc:, IN 46-556-0779 
The-Ob~t"''Vt:r 1~ a member uf the: A)"x.ineJ Pn:a. All rt"proclut:tiun riglm an: ~tved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Nicole Zook Kate Gales Mary Kate Ann Loughery Malone Kyle Cassily Jarrett Lance Scene Viewpoint Maria Smith Sarah Vabulas Illustrator Graphics Graham Ebetsch Graham Ebetsch 
Our pope 
When Pope John Paul II passed away Saturday, he left a 26-year legacy of leadership, more than enough time to span most college students' lives. His longevity and his visibility -he made more public appearances and trav­eled to more countries than any pontiff before him ­made him the face of Catholicism for millions of young 
Americans.  
His World Youth Days, begun in 1985, set a  
tone of outreach and hope that reminded Catholic young adults of the critical role they play in the future of the Church.  OJhe userver  

But what made John Paul II pivotal for the acquaintance who won't tell her mom she college generation was the action he prompt­takes birth control. There's the friend who
Editorial 
ed young Catholics to take in the present. goes to the Grotto every night. Young 
After taking leadership of a global congre-Catholics here run the spectrum from tradi­gation still polarized after Humanae Vitae and Vatican II, tional to progressive. but their investment in the Church the pope wasted no time asserting his opinions. He and ownership of their faith is genuine. defended conservative doctrine on birth control. premari­John Paul II can take much of the credit. Through his tal sex, women's ordination and homosexuality against extensive outreach, belief in our generation and decisive pressing cultural forces. Coupled with his public persona convictions, the pope galvanized the youth -and in doing and inclusive aim, these consistently staunch positions so, left his mark on the Church for years to come. 
Modern art live 
On the first terrace of Purgatory, Dante, the Divine Comedy's author and protagonist, and his guide, the Latin poet Virgil, encounter works of art so breathtaking that the reader is told "Nature's very
self would there be John lnfranca put to shame." 
Dissident

Despite the incred­ible beauty and Poetry vLvid, life-like repre­sentation of the images before their. eyes, Virgil scolds Dante for lingering too long before a single marble carv­ing. As Hobert Hollander notes in his edition of the Purgatorio, Virgil appears to lack the attention span and appreciation of his companion. Hollander describes the poets as akin to a couple touring an art museum together. One wants to hurry through their tour of the exhibit but is delayed by the other who lingers, seemingly unaware of the passage of time and totally absorbed in the piece of art before him. 
Many of us have had such experi­ences, perhaps more often as one or the other of these archetypal muse­um-goers. This past December I visit­ed the recently reopened Museum of Modern Art in New York. MoMA offers perhaps the finest collection of 20th century art in the world. But such offerings do not come cheap. Admission costs $20 for an adult. a price that did not keep thousands of visitors from filling the galleries. 
For many New York area residents a visit to one of the city's art muse­ums is an obligatory component of the annual family Christmas trip into the city. One passes by the store win­dows on 5th Avenue, takes a peek at the Christmas tree at Hockefeller Center, enjoys the Hadio City Music Hall Christmas Spectacular, and then brings the children to peruse a few Rothkos in the Museum of Modern Art. Nothing says Christmas like a canvas covered only by solid blocks of red and green paint. 
I am actually rather fond of much modern art, particularly grandiose 
OBSERVER POLL 
For what will you most remember 
Pope John Paull!~ APublic presence and travels BReiUrn to Conservative Catholicism C Opposition to Communism DWorld Youth Day/ youth advocacy 
E. Ecumenical relations FLength olterm 
G. Theology of the Body teachings 
'Poll appears courtesy of ndsmcobservercom md is ba.sed on 439 resoonses. 


took on a powerful force. And for those growing up in the Church, John Paul Il's Catholicism dictated their experi­ences. 
The pope's strong stances inspired strong reactions, especially from the youth eager to shape the Church ­whether by pushing the envelope or staying the course. And nowhere is this more apparent than on the campuses 
of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
There's the roommate who advocates for a gay-straight alliance. There's the HA who plays the organ at Mass. There's the 


public works like "The Gates" that recently adorned New York's Central Park. I am also quite happy to see so many individuals enjoying the city's museums and the incredible holdings within them. even though they might need a second mortgage to do so. Yet my trips to these museums, especial­ly during periods so busy it is difficult to catch even a glimpse of the art through the crowds of people surrounding you, often cause me to wonder how much of this art is really being enjoyed rather· than simply con­sumed. 
This question becomes particu­larly compelling when one strolls through the more abstract sections ofMoMA. To understand what many modern artists are doing often requires far more information than most museums offer or most visitors could acquire in the span of an afternoon. The details shared on the tiny white cards next to individual pieces are often scant. Titles such as "Untitled #34" do not offer much help in under­standing the motivations or inten­tions of the artist. When museums do attempt to share the latent gravitas of a work they often offer phrases whose obscurity only thickens the cloud of unknowing. The work of one artist exhibited at MoMA was praised for offering an "experience in which past and present are intertwined ele­ments of an enduring proposition." If that sentence actually says anything I would be interested in having it translated into English. 
I consider the responses elicited by 
lSubmit aLetter1 to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com f 
such works as indicative of an intriguing cultural dynamic: the desire to appreciate certain forms of art simply because others have told us they are worthy of appreciation. It is worth considering how many peo­ple would spend twenty dollars to view seemingly identical pieces of 
non-representational art were they displayed in a New York City parking garage. 
Actually such an exhibit might be considered hip. It could prove 
particularly so if wine and cheese were offered and a 
man in dark cloth­ing plucked an acoustic bass. 
While touring MoMA I over­heard one man say to his chil­dren: "I don't know why this is distinguished, but 
that's art." Perhaps he missed something. Or per­haps he realized something the rest 
of us missed. Is it possible that many cultural artifacts laud­ed as bold, inventive, and 

groundbreaking an~ n~ally nothing more than modern 
incarnations of the emperor who walked around without any clothes on? Perhaps the only difference is that the little girl who felt compelled to announce that the emperor was naked could now simply paint her own version of some of the works of art hanging in MoMA. 
John lnfranca is a theology gradu­ate student. His column appears every other Friday. 1/e can be con­tacted at jinfran 1@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those·of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Socialjuslice cannot be attained by violence. Violence kills what it in tends lo create." 
Pope John Paul II 
.---------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
r THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Friday, April 8, 2005 
page 9 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Poverty is death 
I am opposed to Shack City 2005 sponsored by ND Habitat 
• l'or Humanity. According to Habitat's Web site, the purpose of Sl1aek City is to raise awareness and funds for substandard housing by putting students in an environment where they will be compelled to eonsidcr the plight of those in substan­dard housing. At the same time, they want to create an enjoy­abln event by creating community and providing entertain­mnnt-live bands, games and a marshmallow roast. In the words of the organizer in last year's Observer article about Shack City, "This event is a way to protest the thinking that we can ignore [homelessncss) in our daily life," Iafigliola said. I agree we ignore substandard housing and poverty in our daily lives, and I applaud Habitat's efforts to raise awareness ol' and funds for the poor. However, I do not agree that sleep­ing in cardboard boxes, listening to live bands and roasting marshmallows is the best moral option. As a disclaimer, I do not believe that Habitat has any inten­tion of denying dignity to the poor. Shack City, nevertheless, sends signals to the homeless community that college stu­dents think it would be fun to sleep in a cardboard box with their friends. My strongest objection to Shack City is that the imitation of material poverty is never good. According to theologian Gustavo Gutierrez, material poverty means premature and unjust death. It is never to be imitated or romanticized which is what Shack City docs on some level. A vow of poverty or a commitment to solidarity with the poor is completely different than imitation. Solidarity means sharing and is put into action by sharing: forgiving foreign debts. distributing excess wealth and allowing the marginalized into our consciousness, etc. 
II' awan~ness and funds are the goal, we should adapt an attitud'~ of solidarity not imitation. Attend campus lectures on social issuns. Work at the Habitat house. Donatc"some money you would othnrwise spend on iTuncs or Jimmy John's or a night out. Visit the Center for the Homeless. Poverty is death, not roasting marshmallows in a cardboard box. 
Jessica Brock 
sen1or 
Pasquerilla East April 7 
U-WIRE 

Daylight savings a waste of ti111e 
A friend of mine almost missed her Kaplan LSAT class. Needless to say, she was pissed. 
How many of you cursed when you woke up this past Sunday, only to find an hour of your day strangely miss­
Zach Stern
ing? My guess is that my 

friend and I weren't the only ones. University of 
As you are all no doubt Wisconsin well aware by this point, Badger Herald it's time to 'spring forward' as the United States enters Daylight Savings Time once again. First established in the United States shortly after World War I. DST has become engrained into the American consciousness. But need this be so? A law's presence in the books for roughly a century does not necessarily make it any more or less justified-just old. DST is a decrepit law whose intended purpose is muddled with ambiguity. Its perceived benefits are outweighed by the tangible costs it creates. 
Historical arguments in favor of DST gen­erally rest upon a few now-faulty premises. One is the supposed benefit DST would pro­vide in relation to farmers. giving them an extra hour of sunlight with which to work. 
Another argument commonly used is that it helps businesses. By giving consumers an extra hour of' sunlight after work, they can use the sunny weather to go shopping. While there may be slight benefits from delaying sunset an hour, this rationale alone is not reason enough to justify such intru­sion. 
The primary argument, however, and the most convincing for the time in which the law was enacted. was that of energy conser­vation. Give people an extra hour of sun­light after they get home from work, and the aggregate savings in energy costs due to unused electricity would be fairly large. At least. it might have been in the '70s. 
With more and more electrical equipment occupying space in people's homes whose usage has little to do with the setting and rising of the sun, particularly the wide­spread growth of air conditioners, such a small amount of energy savings is hardly worth the costs. • 
And what are these costs? Beyond simply stealing an hour of your sleep for one night.· some have argued that DST creates a 'sleep deficit,' in fact contributing to an increase in automobile accidents immediately follow­ing the 'spring forward.' In addition, the costs involved with keeping track of this change are numerous, as well as the fact that individual states can choose to opt out of DST anyway. Indiana suffers from this confusion, with neighboring counties being under different times, hurting the ability for businesses to interact with one another by increasing the costs. 
Confusion, at the very least, ought to be reason enough to halt this laughable policy. But sadly, tradition inevitably creates iner­tia-why change something when it's 'always' been that way. Even though it has not. 
The perceived benefits of DST policy an~ extremely slight at best. non-nxistnnt at worst. We may get our hour back in the f'all. but it shouldn't be taken away in the first place. Ironic, then, is the !'act that when tiH' government acts to try to save time, it really just ends up wasting it. All too telling, but not very surprising. 
This column originally appeared on April 7 in the Badger Herald, the daily publica­tion at the University of Wisconsin. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
U-WIRE 
Coverage of pope, Schiavo tough to miss 
So. Did you hear the pope died? I bet you did. In fact, I'm nearly sure of it. 
According to TVEyns, a digital media monitoring snrvicn, the word pope was nwntioned a staggering 8,321 times by tlw combination of' National Public Hadio 
Alex and the major televi­Koppelman sion outlets from 
Friday morning until University of 
midnight Sunday­Pennsylvania 
that's once every 30 Daily 
seconds. Pennsylvanian 
Fox News alone mentioned him over 2,000 times. And according to Eric Boehlert of salon.com, Sunday's major newspa­pers were little different. 
The Detroit Free Press ran 11 sto­ries about the death of the pope; my hometown Baltimore Sun ran 14. The Los Angeles Times had 15 articles on the pope, including an obituary span­ning 7,339 words, 10 times the length of this column space. The New York Times ran 16, and Long Island's Newsday ran 41. 
There were some times this week­end when the story seemed ever-pres­ent: Pick up a newspaper, turn on the TV, even sign on to AOL Instant Messenger and you were guaranteed to read something about the pope. It was nearly impossible not to. 
But I bet you didn't hear about the Hcpubltcan senator who, on the Senate f'loor. rationalized the recent murders of federal court judges and their families, saying that it could be directly traced to the people's frustra­tion with what he termed "political decisions," like those in the Terri Schiavo case and the recent banning 
of juvenile execution. And I bet you 
didn't bear about the latest large 
attack by insurgents in Iraq, in which 
40 American soldiers were injured. The speaker of the House essentially 
giving up on the Social Security 
changes that have been a major issue 
ror President Bush? Probably didn't 
hear aloout that either. 

Of course the death of the pope is an important story: lie is a vital figure for millions of Catholics, as well as a respected world leader. and his actiom: and decisions played a vital part in shaping the post-Cold War world. 
But think about the word news. The very word implies that any news is, well. new. And that's what the news should be-important and newswor­thy precisely because it is something you don't already know. But after the actual death of the pope, very little happened. He was moved to public viewing, and that was about it. There wasn't, during the days of wall-to-wall covera:ge, an election of a new pope or even any solid information on who might he elected. There was absolute­ly nothing unexpected about the story, nothin1~ new to report, and yet it somehow merited round-the-clock covcra:~e. at the expense of breaking stories that continued to develop in unexpected and important ways. 
The constant attention paid to the death of the pope, much like the media frenzy that surrounded the death of Terri Schiavo, is hardly sur­prising. "If it bleeds, it leads," is the familiar motto of many a news organi­zation, and any of those organizations' ratings and circulation will be vastly improved by a story where the bleeder is someone beloved the world over. 
Conservatives will tell you that the problem with our media is a pronounced liber.al bias, but they're wrong. The real problem with today's news isn't a subjective and largely false notion of bias: It's money. Once, the important part of the news was the story; now it's the potential profit in the story. 
It's cheap to cover the death of the pope or Terri Schiavo or the court case of Michael Jackson. Plant a talking head in front of the hospital or courtroom, and you're 
done. But break the story of 
Daily Pennsylvanian, the Watergate? That takes months of daily publication at the hard work by a team of reporters ded­University ofPennsylvania. icated to a story that may never pan The views expressed in this column out, and even if it does, may never get are those of the author and not neces­widespread attention. That's time sarily those of The Observer. 
news organizations are no longnr will­ing to give. Expansive coverage of a single important iSSUP, (ikP the cil~ath ol' a popn. is not automatically a bad thing. It's when that coveragP comes at the expense of other news. news that can help shape popular opinion and govern­ment action, that we start to have a problem. And we've been seeing 
that more and more lately. Slowly but sure­
ly, that is taking its toll on our media and on us. It's why our elected officials, the supposed guardians of our 
rights and free­doms. should stand up and finally take action to reverse. rather than assist. the trend of media con­glomeration. 

This column originally appeared on April 7 in the 
CENE 
Master and hermusic are pure Cape Breton, But you dates right back to settlers from the 18th century Scottish 
d today," MacMaster said. ''We always call it Cape Breton · 
. . ... 

can put it there, it's MacMaster; The muskian>has been won a Juno award, the Canadian eq:uivalentofaGrammy, are Showing," an album of traditional Cape Br~ton music. 
The dancing may not be the main So if Celtic music is 
draw, but adds to the renowned en~rgy no.t a show to miss. And 
and appeal of MacMaster's shows. <<<. •• ..· Natalie MacMaster might 
"I think the greatest virtue [of Cape ciao tO turn you around. 
Breton music] is tbe rhythm/'< ''The grl')atest com 
MacMaster said. "It comes from years received after a show was 
of playing for step dancers~ You'll tlQd .said. she dido 't like fiddle 
a lot of people in Ca,pe<Breton vvll~ lovedl#y'SllOW,"MacMaster
dance. just to be able. t() move to t)l¢ . w¢ can .. ¢onvert non.,.,u ..~­
music." ... · . recomlliend everybody 
MacMaster also owes more than aUt~ · · show whether you like 
tle to a great backing band. Bta,d not.'' . . ···· ·. 
Davidge ~n guitar anrl vocals, ~ohn .Natalie MacMaster w .··• 
Chiassori{9ri>bass and vo¢als; Allli.il .. <Friday al>8 p;m.'in th ·. · 
Dewar on pic;~.no and keyboard~. M~W ConcM•tHaJl. TicketS cost 
Macisaac tnt bagpipes and whistles I}J)d. dents, $~6 for seniors, $28 ·•• 
Miche Pouliot on drums and · · · · · .and staff and $35 for the 
are all excellent · · lie. ··· ·· · ·· ··· rights and at() a big . . . · · ·· ··. ·..·. · . ··••·•·····..·.·•··•.· .·· ·. · 
•·MacMastet~s .. tours .so $. ~·~Q~s~f'Ql{ i.C· .. · ··· ConUle't Maria Smith ~t lll:t.uu•.o,~~ 
CENEl~riday, April 8, 2005 
page II 
Anew here, for the ·martial arts genre 
New hit starring Thai actor and fighter Tony faa screens at the PAC this weekend 
Tony Jaa, who has the potential to magic. Muay Thai, a fighting style which by an entire gang in seconds through 
By BRIAN DOXTADER become a great star. is all elbows and knees, is also well dis­clever cditii1g and hand-held cameras 
Scene Wri tcr The film really becomes a showcase for played and paired ofT against other tech­increase the sense of urgency in key 
his physical abilities and his perfection of niques, such as kickboxing and American sequences. 
"Ong-Bak: The Thai Warrior" essential­Muay Thai, a style of martial arts. Jaa's street fighting. The most stunning The fight scenes are well shot, but ly introduces Thai action cinema to the athleticism recalls the tradition of I long moments are re-shown multiple times eschew the fancy editing of Hollywood world. The film, which is a wildly enter­Kong predecessors consecutively from cinema in favor of giving a clearer per­taining showcase for newcomer Tony like Bruce Lee, different angles. spective on what is happening. The film .laa, succeeds as a stylish and engaging Jackie Chan and Ong-Bak: The Thai Warrior This demonstrates is cleanly edited so that nothing obscures martial arts film. Jet Li. lie even rais­
that no wires or the verisimilitude of the choreography 
When tlw head of the sacred statue es the bar for mar­gimmicks were and it can again be seen that no tricks Ong-Bak is stolen from the temple in a tial arts through his used and also arc being used. rural Thailand village, Ting ('l'ony Jaa) is vertical jumps and shows ofT the elab­"Ong-Bak" isn't a great !ilm thematical­chosen to go to the city and try to recover remarkable speed; Director: Prachya Pinkaew orate stunts. ly, but it isn't meant to be. It's meant to it. When lw arrives, he gets inexplicably there is not a single Writers: Petchtai Pinkaew and Panna P r a c h y a be a showcase for the action and for the caught up in the antics of his misanthrop­or CG I effect used Rittikrai Pinkaew's directing abilities of Tony Jaa. By realizing its own ic cousin George (l'etchthai in the entire film. Starring: Tony Jaa, Petchtai Wongkamlao, is mostly perfuncto­limitations, it actually manages to tran­Wongkamlaol. who has fallen in with the The scene in Pumwaree Yodkamol ry, but is also large­scend them and become a minor miracle, local gangster. which Ting, chased ly unobtrusive. a cinematic marvel that is inherently 
While Ting is initially reluctant to fight. through a street by "Ong-Bak: The Thai Warrior" will be shown There are some watch-able and undoubtedly entertain­he ev<!ntually becomes entangled with a gang, leaps over Friday, Apri/8 at 7p.m. and Saturday, Apri/8 interesting cine­ing. tlw gangsters in his single-minded quest. tables. people, at 10 p.m. at the Browning Cinema. matic flourishes 
Thn plot is about as thin as they come, fences and cars is Admission is tree and open to the public. throughout -a sin­Contact Brain Doxtader at IJut the real reason to see this film is for pure cinematic Tickets are required. gle man is flanked bdoxtade@nd.edu 

"Ong-Bak: The Thai Warrior" features Tony Jaa, an expert In the Muay Thai form of martial arts. The form has not been featured in previous hit martial arts films but may expand in importance In the genre as cinema from Hong Kong becomes less important. Jaa himself may emerge as the next hero in the martial arts genre. 
FTT professor Magnon-Park reflects on 'Ong-Bak' and martial arts 
By BRIAN DOXTADER 
Secno Wri tcr 
Aaron Magnon-Park is a professor in the Department of Film. Television and Theatre. Magnon-Park teaches film and television aesthetics. film history. pan­Asian cinema and international action cinema. 1/e is currently working on research projects on the transnational dimensions ofthe Hong Kong action cine­ma and the discourse of han [everlasting woe} in contemporary Korean cinema. 
Q: What are your overall impressions of"Ong-Bak: The Thai Warrior"? 
A: I think it's a phenomenal film. We're used to martial arts extravaganzas corn­ing primarily from Hong Kong. In some ways, due to the exodus of !long Kong talent with the return of !long Kong from a British colony to a special administra­tive region of mainland China, there's a certain loss of quality of the actio1f"spunk that epitomized I long Kong action as dis­tinct and worthy of global recognition outside of the llollywood tradition. 
Other national cinemas with stronger economic development such as Japan and South Korea would seem to be natu­ral sites of resurgence, and in some ways there are examples of that. But when we go south to Thailand, it's a country that is still developing and has a very distinct martial arts tradition -Muay Thai. In some ways, this film surpasses the mar­tial legacy that has long been the domain of I long Kong action cinema. 
Q: I low docs this film compare with a typicall!ol!ywood action film? 
A: My hope is that students will see this film and re-engage with action cinema (through Asian action cinema) and will understand the inherent limitations of over-technologizcd Hollywood action cin­ema. In some ways, it's the endless battle between a rich film industry and a poor film industry -rich and poor in terms of access to finances and latest technology. The Hollywood way is to pump more money into more technology, and that will create action, whereas in some ways the Asian film industry's approach is one in which the human body has to deliver the action. 
Q: Why was this a film that was able to cross over into a more mainstream and global market? 
A: I think there's a certain degree of investment and extra-financing that came into the film. along with savvy pro­motion of the film on the film festival cir­cuit to the point that it reached a global audience, and (good for us in South Bend) two years down the line the possi­bility of seeing it here. The film had a limited release in the United States. There is a.lso a tradition in the martial arts of trying to provide a new martial arts style, and so we can say that in Ong­Bak we have Muay Thai grounded as martial arts du jour. 
Q: What does Ong-Bak say about the future of Thai cinema? 
A: I expect the star (Tony Jaa) to con­tinue having martial arts action cinema roles, perhaps even being invited to work in Hong Kong or the United States. And it will provide added finance capital for Thailand now that they've demonstrated an artistic look but commercial savviness and the quality of production values. 
Q: How does Tony Jaa fit within a par­ticular tradition of action cinema stars? 
A: Bruce Lee was very nationalistic and ethnocentdc, trying to demonstrate the power of Chinese kung fu. With [Ong­bak), there is no doubt that Muay Thai is identified very strongly with its national origins in Thailand. When Jaa has [one particular] fight, his opponent is verbally recognized as Burmese and promotes a Burmese approach to martial arts. 
Here also with Jaa, it is a form of authentic kung fu because of the creative and select process of bringing in the most cinematically significant or vibrant moves for fight sequences. 
From Jackie Chan we have the tradi­tion of the cinematic technique of fore­grounding that [he performed the stunts and hard-to-perform martial arts moves] without the use of harnesses or safety devices [by using] overlapping action, both double and triple. So in Ong-Bak we visually recognize the most physically demanding and life-threatening sequences when we see the event shot from two or three camera angles and shown in its full completion one after another. This creates a break from the linear narrative, it's a disrupting device, but it really highlights the spectacular performance. 
Jet Li began martial arts training from an early age, [but has) a youthful appear­ance. So he shares a certain charisma with Jaa that is more pronounced than Lee or Chan. Jet Li in some ways signifies a complete amalgamation of the militant Chinese version of screen masculinity for China. Ong-Bak has created the same kind of image for many films to come that will continue to try to establish the same kind of cinematic signature for Jaa's career. 
However, Jet Li does use wires (a form called "wire-fu"), whereas most of Jaa's vertical leaps are done without the assis­tance of wires, so he's like a gazelle. Scenes like those in "Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon" use wires, and while you may not notice it ori the first viewing, you can later register that technique. 
We also have a case where in foreign martial arts films, unlike the first kung fu invasion in the early seventies, where we get to hear the original language. It's not dubbed into some kind of compromised English that in many ways undermines the thematic content and devolves into some kind of campiness or comedy that is not part of the original script. 
Q: Why is this film a good selection for the Asian Film Festival? 
A: That's a complicated question. There are several issues that go into selection of fllms for a film festival. One of the most important aspects for us being in South Bend is that we are geo­graphically isolated and not part of the regular film festival circuit. So while this film would be easily accessible in a major city, having it come here (especially in a 35 millimeter film print) would be almost impossible. 
This film was also chosen as a way to break out of the predictable realm of Asia. Far too often, we tend to focus on the far East, with China and Japan domi­nating. The notion of Asia has to be much larger. As a Thai film. "Ong-Bak" is part of southeast Asia. In the future we would love the possibility of bringing in a film from every country in Asia. 
What we're trying to do with the !ilm festival is start small, and demonstrate that there is critical demand on campus and within the community. In future evo­lutions of the film festival we would enlarge the selection of the films that we bring in and the guests that we bring in for screenings. Ultimately, there are some films that just need to be seen on the big screen in order to be fully appre­ciated, and "Ong-Bak" is one of them. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
I .I 
Friday, April 8, 2005 

page 12 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
SMC GOLF 

Team_ set to com.pete on rigorous Tri-State course 
By ANNA FRICANO Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's Golf team has four more events between now and the NCAA Championships in May, and the Belles will travel to Tri-State University this weekend to try to put a victory on the list. 
This weekend's one-day event, which takes place on Saturday, ought to have much more to offer the ladies in the way of golfing conditions. The forecast for this weekend is warm and sunny, with little chance of pre­cipitation. The day should be a nice change for the golfers, who were faced with a spring snow storm just one week ago. 
The team will be playing this weekend at Zollner Golf Course on the Campus of Tri-State University. The course has been the three-time host of the National Collegiate Golf Championships as well as the site for Sectional State Open Qualifying and Indiana PGA Junior Age-Group Champion­ships. It is known for its strategi­cally placed water hazards and hilly terrain and is considered by many as the "thinking player's" golf course. 
Seniors Stefanie Simmerman and Julia Adams will be looked to in order to perform especially well for the Belles this weekend. Last weekend, Simmerman tied the top finisher of the day, Colleen Groomes from Otterbein College with a score of 8 3. Adams came in at a close third with an 84 on the day. However, the entire team worked together to produce a tournament-record score of 357 at the Player's Club Course last Friday, and it is that depth that will be counted on to earn a respectable finish this weekend at the Tri-State Invite. 
Coach Mark Hamilton believes that his team has the experience that it takes in order to perform well this weekend and continue toward their goal of earning an invite to the NCAA Championships. 
He also wants to make sure that his golfers are able to save their best for exactly the right moment. 
"We're working, as a team, on peaking at the right time," he said. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africa@saintmarys.edu 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish look to extend streak 
Boilermaker Invite is expected to feature a talented field ofgolfers 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 

Coming off two straight tour­nament victories, Notre Dame will look to continue its win­ning ways this weekend at the Lady Boilermaker Invitational. 
The tournament, hosted by Purdue, will feature a very competitive field of 13 teams. Each team sends six golfers to the tournament. Each round, the team's four lowest scores make up the team score. . 
The Irish will be led by jun­ior co-captain Katie Brophy and sophomore Noriko Nakazaki. Brophy leads the Irish in scoring with a 75. 92 stroke average for the year. Nakazaki is coming off her first-ever individual tourna­ment victory at last weekend's Indiana Invitational. 
Senior Karen Lotta, fresh­man Jane Lee and freshman Alejandra Diaz-Calderon, who will be making her debut on the traveling squad, will round out the Irish lineup. 
"We are really expecting big things from her," Lotta said of Diaz-Calderon. 
"She has been playing really well. We hope that this is her breakout tournament that she can be in the lineup regular­ly." 
·Notre Dame needs a strong showing in the Lady Boilermaker 
"We've been
to increase its on top in the chances of reach­working a lot on past two tourna­ing a second ments. However.
our short game this 
straight NCAA the Irish realize
week."
Central Regional that as the high-Championship. est ranked team The Irish cur­in each tourna­
Karen Lotta 
rently sit on the ment, they were
Irish golfer 
bubble, but an impressive per­formance this weekend could go a long way. 
The field is filled with other Central Regional teams with whom the Irish are competing for a spot in the championship tournament. Five of the teams -Michigan, Kent State, Texas A&M, Purdue and Northwestern -are currently ranked higher than Notre Dame. The Irish realize how significant it would be if they 
. managed to defeat some of these teams this weekend. 
"There are a lot of Central Region teams there that we need to beat," Lotta said. "We are really just going to try and finish as high as we can because every team we beat here is really important for our standings." 
The team should benefit from the confidence boost it 
has received 
after coming out 
supposed to win. 

The team acknowledges that improve­ments must be made for simi­lar results to come this week­end against a much stronger field. 
"We've been working a lot on our short game this week," Lotta said. 
"A lot of putting and chip­ping has been done. Everyone hit the ball well last weekend. We just didn't score well." 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenoa4@nd.edu 
MEN'S TENNIS 

Irish hope to end home season on positive note 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
After a disappointing loss to Southern Methodist University last weekend, the Irish are hop­ing not to drop the ball against Ball State. who visit Notre Dame on Saturday for the mens' final home match of the season. 
"I think like most seasons, we've had ups and downs," coach Bobby Bayliss said. "Last Sunday was a down, but I think we've got a chance. to finish strong and in the top 25 ­that's our goal." 
As the season waned, the Irish have had trouble building momentum, although Bayliss remains confident in the ability of his young players. 
"It starts again -it starts with Ball State," Bayliss said, pointing out that the Cardinals dropped a close decision to a highly-ranked Louisville squad on Wednesday. "We know they've played us 4-3 the last two years, last year we won the last match.... Theyre a pretty good team, [and] they're as well coached as anyone in the coun­try, so we expect to have our hands full." 
However, the Irish are looking forward to the challenge. · 
"That's kind of the way you want it at the end of the year ... to make yourself as viable as you can for the NCAA tourna­ment," Bayliss said. 
The Irish are healthy and ready to finish the season as strongly as they began. 
"The core of people that we've been playing are probably healthy and will play," Bayliss said. 
Brent D'Amico is expected to return to action after sitting out against SMU. According to Bayliss, he practiced on Thursday and looked "strong." 
Bayliss expects the doubles point to be a challenge, as the Cardinals defeated a top-notch Illinois team who beat the Irish in March. 
"They are very strong in dou­bles, they won the doubles point from Illinois," he said. "We'll have to play exceptionally well to be competitive in doubles." 
Overall, Bayliss considers his team ready to finish the season on a high note. 
"It's a great group of guys and we've fought pretty hard," Bayliss said. "I think its going to be a great contest, a terrific chance for people to spend a nice Saturday afternoon. I promise you it's going to be a competitive match. They're very scrappy and they've got some guys with weapons." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day_ from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dmmg Hall. Dead! me for next-day class1fieds IS 3 p.m. AI claSSifieds musr be prepaid.
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Great 6-7 bdrm home available  2,4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus,  Nice homes close to ND.Great  Large 5bdrm,3bth house for sum- 
FOR SALE  FOR RENT  6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail­able NOW. Both Close to  call 234-9923, ask for Rod.  area.AII amenities. 19237 Cleveland 6-7bdrm;202 E. Cripe 4bdrm;222  mer sublet. Juniper Rd. Very close to ND. Will rent rooms individually.  
ND,W/D,on-site parking.  3 bdrm house, nicely furnished. 417  E. Willow 3bdrm.2773097  2-car garage, washer/dryer,deck.  
OAKHILL CONDO  DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW  ND Internet Canopy access.  Napoleon (off ND Ave.)2 min. from  Email: Ghealey@nd.edu  
FOR SALE. 4 rm,2 bath.  LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS- Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 Clean homes close to ND. 2-8  ND. $1100/mo. 2 roommates/1 lam­ily. Call 299-9428.  STUDENT RENTALS $400 PER MONTH All utilities, ADT security, phone/cable/DSL, WiD, Lawn serv­ 123 N. NO Ave. 3bd,1.5 ba,off prkg.,W/0. $1300/mo. Call 229-0149.  
For details fimbel.1 @nd.edu or 574-261-0900.  ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED­ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY  bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent pro­gram. Blue & Gold Homes  www.andersonNDrentals.com 5-7 BDRMS.$195/PERSON.SUM­ ice. 2,3,4,5 bdrms. Avaii.OS/06. Call 315-3215  4-5 bdrm,2 bath house in SB. Lots of room. Call Judy 574-298-6217.  
2000 Tracker. 26,000 miles.  SYSTEMS,.WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­ (574)250-7653. 2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING  MER OR 05/06. WASHERIDRYER.329-0308  Extra large 3 bdrm 1st floor apt. 1 0 mins. from ND. Great quiet area. 3 students @$450/mo.  Happy 23rd Birthday Megan Thomas! Love, your awesome retreat team  
$5200. 634-4422.  2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7­8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK VISIT OUR WEB­ DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 S.B. AVE -605 ST PETER CALL 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM  1-yr sublet 1 bdrm. 10 min. to ND. $500/mo. Email: ngreenbe@nd.edu  All utilities included. 574.707.2960  good luck with the skit everyone! i know you'll all be great! : )  
For Sale: Luggage Carrier  SITE  6 BEDROOM 35 BATH. 1 BLOCK  Furn houses on Navarre,Marion & St. Pete Sis. avail 06-07. 233-9947.  Sub lease our house this summerJ Clean, newer 5-bedroom house for  RC and CB: Holy Half Champions'  
Sears largest; only used twice. $150. Call 272-5763 to see.  WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234-2436 OR 574-315-5032.  FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH+ DEP. STAFF AND FACULTY ONLY CALL BRUCE 876-3537.  Nice homes close to ND.Great area.AII amenities. 19237 Cleveland 6-7bdrm;202 E. Cripe 4bdrm;222 E.Willow 3bdrm.2773097  rent this summer. VERY close to campus on Juniper and partially fur­nished. Contact Nell at nryan7@nd.edu.  "You do that again and you're out." E hits all the right notes . .good luck in the opera E!  

Friday, April 8, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 13 
SMC TENNIS 
Hope remains undefeated with 5-4 win over Belles 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
Tho Flying Dutch of !lope College knocked oil' the Bnlles, 5-4, Thursday afternoon at Saint Mary's to maintain lirst place in the MIAA with a 4-0 confernnce rm:ord. 
Thursday marked the lirst time sinco 2000 that Saint Mary's (3-6) lost to llopn (8-7), junior co-cap­tain Kristen Palombo said. The loss droppod the Belles to fifth plac1~ in the confernnce at 1-1. 
"I lope b the kind of team that's always been in the top half of the confnrence," Palombo said. 
"Wu've been lucky in the past couplo of years to close it out, but we lacked that today." 
Coach Dm~ Stevenson pointed to tlw Bellns' doubles play as the decisive factor in Thursday's loss. 
"I thought we noeded to win two out of thrne doubles, and we only won one," Stevenson said. Winning two would have taken the pn~ssure ofT of singles play, which the team split, 3-3. 

The highlight of singles play came from Palombo's three-set victory over junior, and fellow No. 1 singles player, Anneliese Fox 7-6 (7-5), 4-6, 6-4 -handing Fox her first conference loss in three years, Stevenson said. 
''I'm on cloud nine," Palombo said. "This is one of those moments where you have to be proud of yourself. It's the best I've played all year." 
Stevenson agreed. 
"She normally plays very well, and today she played very smart," she said. 
"Kristen had a game plan going into the match. She followed the game plan." 
Palombo agreed with Stevenson that the execution of her game plan carried her to victory. 
"We have the exact same scheme," Palombo said of Fox. "We're backboards. We make each other move around. She knows what I'm trying to do, and I know what she's trying to do­and I was able to outlast her." 
The Belles' biggest point earners on the day were sophomores Caile Mulcahy and Kelly McDavitt, who won their No. 2 doubles match as well as their singles matches. 
Palombo was particularly impressed with McDavitt's perse­verance in her singles match, which she came back to win 0-6, 6-4,6-0. 
"Kelly played a great match," Palombo said. "It was really great for her conlidence because when you loso a match 6-0, it's human nature to want to throw in the towel." 
Coach Stevenson credited McDavitt for her ability to make impromptu adjustments. 
"We had to change the game plan in the middle of the match," he said. "She did that, and it threw her opponent oil'." 
Though the loss dropped Saint Mary's to the middle of the pack in the standings of the nine-team conference, Palombo remained optimistic towards the rest of the conference season, which the Belles have won two out of the last three years. 
"We're still a young team," she said. "We have a lot of players get­ting more experienced. llopefully these matches will teach us some­thing." 
The Belles will have their next crack at a conference foe in their next game April 13 at Kalamazoo College (6-3, 2-1 MIM). 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 
Team looking to secure much-needed win over Adrian 
By TOM STILES SportsWriter 
Saint Mary's (5-12) will look to notch its lirst conference win this Saturday aftnrnoon at 1 
p.m. when they visit MIAA foe Adrian College (6-13). After having dropped their last nine ganws, the Belles l'ind them­
' ' 

selves in desperate need of a win if they want to salvage the season. 
Adrian comes in looking for its second conference win and, much like the Belles, is in need of a confidence-building victory. Adrian has dropped three of its last four games, most recently splitting a double-header with Tri-State University, who swept the Belles Monday. They enter action this weekend at seventh place in the MIAA, two spots ahead of last place Saint Mary's. 
Saint Mary's will look to capi­talize on the recent play of Adrian College, which has been sub-par. Adrian is currently dead last in team batting aver­age and second to last in team ERA. Saint Mary's is sixth in each category, which should correlate to a better record, but the Belles' shoddy fielding in recent games -fielding per­centage of only .869 -has wasted solid pitching perform­ances. 
The Saint Mary's offense has gradually begun to show improvement over the last few weeks. In fact, the Belles rank in the top five in hits, runs scored, and total bases. The pitching has also shown signs of coming around, but errors have proven to be the Belles undoing as they lead the con­ference with nineteen miscues. 
The games Wednesday against Albion College proved no different from the tone of the season, as the Belles com­mitted twelve errors in both games combined, which result­ed in 14 unearned runs between the two match-ups. The Belles' bats came alive in both games, scoring six runs in game one and five runs in game two. 
Game one saw junior pitcher Bridget Grall fall to 3-6 on the season, despite surrendering only two runs in a game that needed extra frames to be dncided. In game two, fresh­man pitcher McKenna Corrigan was roughed up for six earned runs on ten hits as she fell to 2­6 on the year. 
Up next for Saint Mary's fol­lowing Saturday's double-dip with Adrian College will be an April 12 match-up on the road against a talented Calvin College squad (12-4). 
Contact Tom Stiles at tstiles@nd.edu 

. 

With NO surchargel 
Concert of Sacred Music for the Easter Season Sunday, AprillQth 2005 
(immediately following 7:15pm Easter Vespers) 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart Notre Dame Celebration & Handbell Choirs 

We have ATMs near you-right where you need tnem, right wh(:~n
I 

you need them. 
. l 

'§.. 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
Independent of the University 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, April 8, 2005 CoMPILED FROtv\ 'Inr: OBsERVER'S WlRE SERVlCts page 14 

around the dial 
GOLF The Masters Tournament 4 p.m., USA Network Masters Recap and Highlights 11:30 p.m., CBS 
NBA 

Pistons at Magic 7 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS 2005 Baush and Lomb Championships 
1 p.m., ESPN 2 
GOLF 


Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. Opening Day at the Masters brought some familiar sights Thursday­first the rain, then the names atop the leader­board that included defending champion Phil Mickelson and world No. 1 Vijay Singh. 
But don't get the idea this was just another typi­cal day at Augusta National. 
Tiger Woods hit an eagle putt that went off the green and into Rae's Creek. Ernie Els spent more time in the trees than in the fairway. Former champion Billy Casper returned to the Masters for the first time in three years and made history with the highest score on a hole 
(14) and the highest round (106). 
Jack Nicklaus teed off to a heartfelt ovation in what might be his last Masters. 
And when a wet and wacky start to the 69th Masters ended in dark­ness, Palmer was on the leaderboard -not four­time winner Arnold Palmer, but Masters rookie Ryan Palmer. 
Of the 24 players who managed to squeeze in the first round, Mark Hensby of Australia was the club­house leader at 3-under 69, showing that Augusta National doesn't have to be crusty and firm to be a brute. 
Chris DiMarco, who showed Mickelson the line on his winning putt last year. birdied three straight holes and was atop the leaderboard at 4 under par with four holes still to play. 
Luke Donald of England was another shot behind and four holes left in his first round, while the group at 2 under included Mickelson, Singh, Palmer, Retief Goosen and Stuart Appleby. 
Players were to return at 
9:45 a.m. to complete the first round, and barring any more weather delays, the tournament should be back to normal by the weekend. 
This was the ninth time in 15 tournaments that weather interrupted play. and the fourth straight week of rain. 
Trying to hold down his No. 1 ranking, Singh was a model of consistency in a first round that was out of whack before players even arrived at Augusta National -tee times were pushed back five times as more than an inch of rain fell, leading to a 5 1/2-hour delay and players starting from both tees. 

IN BRIEF 
~chilling roughed up in ftrst start 
INDIANAPOLIS -Curt Schilling gave up seven runs in six innings in a rehabilitation start for Boston's Triple-A Pawtucket farm team Thursday, then said he's ready to start for the Red Sox next week against the New York Yankees at Fenway Park. 
"I felt great," he said. "Going into today, I wanted to get mentally ready. I stretched it out. No fatigue. I felt strong. I'm going to go out and compete against the Yankees on Wednesday. I'll be ready." 
Schilling, recovering from offsea­son ankle surgery, allowed 11 hits, including two solo homers, .a triple and a double. He struck out six and walked none, throwing 77 of 104 pitches for strikes in a 7-5 loss to the Indianapolis Indians. 
After throwing 47 pitches and struggling with left-handed hitters in the first two innings, he retired 12 of his last 16 batters, striking out four. 
Francona did not have 
heart attack 
BOSTON -Red Sox manager Terry Francona did not have a heart attack and results of medical tests on him "are very good," Boston's team doctor said Thursday. 
Francona was hospitalized in New York on Wednesday morning after feeling tightness in his chest and was transferred to Massachusetts General Hospital later in the day. 
The team did not say when Francona might rejoin the Red Sox, who begin a three-game series Friday in Toronto and will receive their World Series rings before Monday's home opener against the New York Yankees. 
"The plan is to perform several series of tests on Terry," Dr. Thomas Gill said in a statement released by the club. "The results of the initial series are very good. 
Davenport downs Peschke 
AMELIA ISLAND, Fla. -Lindsay Davenport needed just 55 minutes to beat Kveta Peschke 6-2, 6-2, before rain postponed most of the afternoon matches Thursday at the Bausch & Lomb Championships. 
No. 5 seed Venus Williams and Marta Domachowska were tied at one set each before the delay. They will finish their match Friday. The winner will face Davenport. 
The match between second-seed­ed Serena Williams and former Bausch & Lomb champion Mary Pierce was also moved back a day to Friday. 
Matches scheduled for Thursday evening included third-seeded Anastasia Myskina's against No. 15 Shinobu Asagoe. Rain was forecast in the area for most of the night. 
Venus Williams lost the first set 6­3, but came back to take the second set 6-4. The players were tied at 30­30 in the first game of the third set when the rain came. 
Friday, April 8, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15· 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Notre Dame to rely on depth in weekend matches 
In Thompson's absence, teammates step up, look to collect pair ofwins 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
ConlidnrH~I~ and composure will be nsSPntial to No. 28 Notre l>anw's success this weekend as it chaiiPngns No. 16 William and Mary in tlw linal home meet of tlw season Saturday and No. 35 Indiana at Bloomington Sunday. 
With last wepkend's 5-2 win owr Long Bnarh State. the team cll~monstratnd it is more than pre­pared to takt~ on the potent William and Mary and Indiana teams. Notrn Dame's (9-8) ability to remain poised under pressure will ultimately determine the out­come of this wnekend's matches. 
"We've had a couple of tight matches this season where it's conw down to 4-3," Louderback said. "I think these matches will be like that. but I think our kids are getting more used to those kinds of matches. It will just be a matter of going out and playing." 
Whiln the match against William and Mary will be a cru­cial one for the team, it will be one of special importance to Sarah Jane Connelly because it will be hnr last homn match don­ning an Irish uniform. 
"It will bo hard to seo hnr leave," Louderback said. "She's been good at doubles all year and she's been playing well at singles. Slw startml stepping up at just the right time. exactly when we need­ed her. She's been a good leader for us on and o!l' the courl<>." 
More recently, Connelly has assumed a position at No. 5 sin­gles as part of the adjusted lineup since sophomore Christian Thompson was sidelined with a knee injury. Junior Lauren Connelly has also been playing in Christian's No. 3 position, junior Kiki Stasnty has been competing at No. 4, and junior Uz Donohue has rounded out the lineup at No. 
6. Christian Thompson is expect­ed to retain her position at No. 1 singles with sister Catrina in this weekend's meets. 
Despite Notre Dame's talent­laden lineup, defeating the Tribe of William and Mary (15-2) will be a tough chore. In their most recent meet. the Tribt~ bestnd No. 48 Virginia Commonwealth, 6-1. winning live singles matches.. and two doubles matches. 
William and Mary also boasts three ranked singles players ­No. 34 Megan Moulton-Levy, No. 122 Candice Fuchs and No. 62 Mngan Muth. Fuchs and Moulton­Levy also represent the Tribe in national rankings, coming in at No. 23. The duo of Muth and Amy Wei are ranked No. 48. 
Louderback said he predicts a tight and emotion-charged match · against William and Mary, espe­cially considering it is Notre Dame's last horne meet. 
"William and Mary is just a solid team all around," Louderback said. "But I think we can play with them. We just have to take one match at a time." 
No. 36 Indiana (1 0-8) looks to be just as competitive as they return to the courts after a 5-2 win over No. 35 Wisconsin. Indiana nearly swept doubles. with victories at Nos. 1 and 2, and were just as successful in singles with wins at Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 5. 
Louderback expects the in-state rivalry will add to the competitive atmosphere. 
NO ROWING 
Irish seeking rede·mption in rematch at Indianapolis 
they are undefeated so far this crew. Although Stone said at this The other varsity t~ights and
By KYLE C:ASSILY 
year, and they beat us last The respect Coach Stone point, it is not do-or-die with fours, along with the novice 
Sports Writer 
fall." said Irish CIHLch Martin gave to the lloosiers was regard to garnering first eights will also be pn~sent at Stone regarding Indiana's first equally reciprocated by place, but a strong showing is, Saturday's competition. Stone 
SPoking to IHnnrge as victori­varsity eight boal. "Our goal is Indiana coach Steve Peterson. as always, wanted. said he is still tweaking lin<'­ous as llickory lligh School to have our best raee of the "We will be having the "We have to come out strong ups with the other boats in an onet~ was in the Indiana State year. This is another step." Indiana State Championships and race well, and I think we effort to determine what Crew Championship. the Notre Purdue is no pushover in where we face off against will." Stone said. "llow they works best. l>anw wonwn's rowing team comparison to Indiana. The Notre Dame and Purdue," he rowed the race [last weekend!. heads to Indianapolis this Boilermakers proved tough said. "Notre Dame will defi­they showed great strides with weekend. Tlw women will face competitors in San Diego last nitely be the bigger challenge their effort." 

Indiana University and Purdue at l~agln Cn1ek Heservoir on Saturday, a rematch between all thn~e teams. 
Tlw Irish raced with Purdue last weekend at the San Diego Crew Classic in a close race with sovnral other teams. Indiana and Purdue faced o!T Parly in this spring season at Clemson. a race in which Indiana was victorious. 
ThP Indiana lloosiers have IH· ('II a d 0 Ill i II an t f0 r c c i n womt•n's t:rPw so far this sea­son. going undefpated. The Irish snPk to gain some rPdnmption against tlw appar­t• n t Iy unstop p a b Ie II o osier forTI'. 
"Thny arn pretty good ­
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


OPEN noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1 027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 232-8444 

"We always have a good, clean match with Indiana," Louderbaek said. 
"I think all of our kids are look­ing forward to eompeting. It should be a really tight match." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 
weekend, and it is doubtful mueh will change in the inter­vening week. Both opposing crews will prove very tough challenges for an Irish varsity eight that is still corning together and improving as a 
of the two." 
Stone is confident in his var­sity eight and their ability. As in every major spring regatta, all results are crucial in respect to qualifying for the NCAA Championships. 

ELlA'S 

M~.dit-em~~no::""' c.l:',l!>l>rwl. 
OPfn: Tllt!s.*&tl.. llam-Zpm &4pm-9pm (Sun W&t.l Mvn, dw;ed) Dlnr?~ln "' Takc..Or.tl ~ Catering
...........•...........,..........-....,-.;!"~:;& ....-. We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk Vegctari1m and Meat Grape Leave R4-lll$, Falafel, Houm:mo$, TalxwH, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie and marly delk.km:!l dishes ... Our address! 115 Dixil~ W~· Nonh 
(574) l77~·nJ9 South Btwd, IN 4663.'! \Ve ;ue-k~cJit.ed m RtJ>SeLmd Mt'd, ncar Pmdle R1JW on J I 
Dept. of Irish Language & Literature Roinn Theanga 7 Litriocht na Gaeilgc 

(}reat Food! (}reat Fun! 
Fall 2005 Course Offerings IRLL I 0 lO I Introduction to Modern Irish I IRLL 10102 Introduction to Modern Irish II IRLL 20103 Intermediate Irish Language IRLL 20105 Introduction to Old Irish IRLL 30107 The Hidden Ireland: Issues in 18th-Cent. Irish Poetry IRLL 60JOJ Poetry and Politics in Early Modern Ireland 1541-16RR 

~1 Sports Sarin South Send 204-6 South Send Ave ~ Across frotM Martins Plaza 
272~1766 

CAll fOPAY TO RESERVE YOUR GRAPUAfiON PARTY rues: COLLE(}[ NI(}Hf ~ UJ 6-SPECIALS (SrA~fiN(} Af $l,QOJ Wed: Live TRIVIA Night~ ~ring your teatMs ~ Prizes Thurs: UJ ~ Penny Night ~ 1~ Specials starting at 9PM MUSf SE 21 ~ NEVE~ A COVE~ WlfH A SfUUENf Ill 


page 16 Friday, April 8, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 

NO WOMEN'S LACROSSE 
Notre Daine heads into pivotal weekend 
Team is set to host No. 2 Duke, Stanford in upcoming meets 
By ERIC RETTER Sports Writer 

The Irish have a perfect opportunity to turn around their season as they play host to two opponents this weekend. Notre Dame (3-6) is set to take on No. 2 Duke at 4 o'clock today 
="""'"'= before squar­ing ofT against Stanford Sunday after­noon. 
Friday and Sunday's games mark the second 
s t r a i g h t Coyne weekend of the Irish homestand, as last weekend the team split games, losing to Connecticut, 13-10, before topping Rutgers, 12-9. Overall, Irish head coach Tracy Coyne was pleased with 
the way her team performed and said she is looking for them to improve in these upcoming 
games. 
"Even though we lost the UConn game, last weekend was very good," Coyne said. "One thing we're focusing on is start­ing strong, and we started strong again [against Rutgers and Connecticut." 
But Coyne remains anxious to see more consistency from her players. 
"We started strong, we fin­ished strong, but we have to stay strong [throughout the game," she said. 
Despite the quality of her team's opponents, Coyne is con­fident her team will be ready come game time. 
"Duke is a very strong team, they're solid in every single aspect," she said. "Last year, we upset them, and we're looking to give them an equally strong game." 
Notre Dame will be led by jun­ior midfielder/attacker Chrysti Foote, who was recently named co-Big East player of the week for the week ·ending April 3. The nomination marks the second time Foote has received the award this season, as she was also named player of the week on Feb. 28. Foote currently leads the team in both goals and assists, with 20 goals and nine assists. 
ller performance, as well as that of her teammates, should be st~ong this weekend, as Coyne has definitely noticed home field advantage at work with her team during their recent stretch. 
"March was tough, we were on the road so much," she said. "Being at home, we can focus on our gameplan rather than trav­e.1" 
As the games approach, Coyne is aware of the heightened sense of competition that comes with the weekend's contests. 
"As a team, we feel more of a rivalry towards Duke," she said. "Our rivalry with Stanford is more institutional." 
Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
Football 
continued from page 20 
sive personnel. 

"Usually, you'll have only one tight end on the field," Weis said. "But I have pack­ages where there's two tight ends and three tight ends. So after I deal with the quarter­back and the five linemen ­so you know you have six on the field -then I try to figure out from the rest of the skill people who the best guys are from the different packages and try to put them in the best position." 
Anthony Fasano (6-foot-4, 260 pounds) is the leading candidate to become Notre Dame's number one receiving option out of the tight end slot after a 27-catch, 367-yard, four-touchdown showing in 2004. 
Like the rest of the players 
at the position, Fasano also has needs to improve. 
Though Billy Palmer (four catches, 34 yards, one touchdown) and Jerome Collins (six catch­es, 67 yards) will not return to Notre Dame next fall, junior Marcus Freeman, sopho­more John Carlson 

and freshman Tim Gritzman are working to provide Weis with the tight end depth he needs to implement the maxi­mum number of offensive packages. 
"The role of the tight end is going to be up to us," Carlson said. "How we perform is going to decide how much the [coaches] use the tight ends. Obviously, if we make plays, they're gonna put us on the· field, so hopefully that will 
however, areas he 
other offensive

'i1s ofright now, 
players, have

there's a lot oftalent 
been picking up and tiered Weis' system well.
experience." 
"If our tight ends are able to Charlie Weis get us in offen­Irish coach sive positions 
happen." 
As of now, the multiple-tight end talk is only that, though the players seem anxious to turn the talk into action. 
"We haven't actually put in the three-tight end [forma­tion) yet, but I mean, the more tight ends the better," Fasano said. 
The high number of tight ends isn't the only thing that can benefit an offense. Years of experience spread out among the potential contribu­tors add another positive vari­able to coaching the tight end position. 
"As of right now, there's a lot of talent and tiered experi­ence [at the tight end posi­tion)." Weis said. "And by that I mean [the players] are not all the same year in school. When you have tiered experi­ence, it gives you the opportu­nity to not only play them but also to groom them at the same time." 
Fasano said a major positive of spring practice has been 
that the tight 
ends, as well as 
and run the 

routes and get open, I think it'll give the offense a big advantage," Fasano said. 
Tight ends coach Bernie Parmalee characterized his group of tight ends as talented and willing to Jearn. Also, in the same matter-of-fact man­ner as Weis, Parmalee said he has his own opinion and phi­losophy on how those players need to improve. 
"They all have the ability, they've just got to work the 

CHUY BENITEZ!The Observer 

Tight end Anthony Fasano works to shake a Purdue defender on Oct. 3. 
technique," Parmalee said. "You've got to understand the technique. You've got to understand what the guy on the other side is trying to do to you, and you've got to beat him to the punch. You've got to outsmart him. 
"It's all about leverage and a lot of things you have to do to put yourself in a better position or better situation to execute the play." 
Meanwhile, as Parmalee 

works on technique, Weis will 
o-bserve and identify the avail­
able talent. 
"You look at all those guys [at tight end]," Weis said. "How well they pick things up and how well they perform on the field helps me make my mind up as far as how I'm gonna handle personnel pack­ages and get more of them involved in the game plan." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 


Headquarte~
"Area's largest selection!" 
~lye ~nl.e ~le 
Only one mile from Campus! East Bank Emporium Restaurant Building 
121 S. Niles@ Jefferson, downtown South Bend (574) 232-8488 +Hours: Mon.-Sat. 10 -6 
Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, Akhmatova, Tchaikovsky, Stravinsky, Prokofiev, Chagall, Pavlov, Baryshnikov.. 
N.A.S.A. Payload Specialist, 
U.S. Anns Control Liaison, World Bank Investment Adviser. 
WHAT DO THEY HAVE IN COMMON? 
RUSSIAN 
RUSSIAN 101, FALL 2005 NO PREREQUISITE 
http://www.nd.edu/-grl 
Con'le "Watch the 
ND/SMC Ballroom Invitational 
Sunday, April lOth South Dining Hall 10:00 AM-7:00PM Free of Charge Stop By Anytime 
Friday, April 8, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
Rally 
continued from page 20 
score on our defensive error. Slw's got to control that hard hit ball. but wn've got to play dnfense the way we should play dnfense." 
Ball State took a 1-0 lead in the top of the fourth, taking advantage of some sloppy Irish dnfense. Sarah McGregor led ol'f' the inning with an inlinld single and stole second base. 
Taylor Yancey then blitzed a hard ground ball to the mid­defense and atto.ck the ball more often," Gumpf said of that meeting. "We were too pas­sive out there, and I told them they needed to be a lot more aggressive out in the field." 
Following that meeting, Booth and the rest of the lriish defense settled down, with Notre 
dle of the infield and Notre Dame second baseman Kati1~ Laing made a nice div­ing stop under pressure to stop tho ball. 
But Laing threw wildly to first. allowing Mc(;rogor to scorn and Yancey to move up to 
"J told our girls that they had to be aggressive on defense and attack the ball more often." 
Deanna Gumpf Irish coach 
mound.  Hartmann then jacked  a  
"I  told  our girls that they  home  run  to  lel't field, and  
had  to  be  aggressive  on  Mallorie Lenn followed with a  

double to cen­ter t'ield that "We were too passive almos.t cleared 
out there ... they needed to be a lot more aggressive out in the field." 
Deanna Gumpf Irish coach 
Dame getting three consecu­
tive outs with no further damage to get out of the inning. 
It didn't take long for the Irish to answer. In the bottom of the fourth inning, Megan Ciolli led off with a bunt single and then stole second base. After Meghan 

sncond base. At the time, it Huthraufl' struck out, Laing was the second Irish error of dropped a bloop :>ingle to put the game, and Gumpf decided runners QJ1 the corners with to call a meeting at the ,ijlne out. 
the fence as well. Sarah Smith pitch ran for Lenn and moved up a base on Carissa Jaquish's groundout to third. Sara Schooonaert followed with a 

clutch RBI single to right. scoring Smith from third base. 
Stephanie Brown grounded out to third base to end the inning. 
Stenglein came on in the fifth and pitched masterfully, helping the Irish stay unde­feated at home (6-0). 
Notre Dame travels to Pittsburgh Saturday for a dou­bleheader with the Panthers. 
The Irish softball team will not return to Ivy Field until a doubleheader against Akron on April 21. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

·Jin1n1y John's pre-game +Fif"st 2.00 fans will tailgating p.c:u·ty for receive a Notre Darne early ,;,rriving Notr·e Lacrosse lunchbox
Adrnission is free! 

Dame Faculty/Staff Notre Darne Faculty/ sponsof"ed by Jirnmy 
(while supplies last) Staff Apprec'Jation Day 
SO FRESH IT'S LIKE IT'S FROM 

54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. -574.277.8500 

JIIMMY JC•HNS
lOVf 
.CIOM

THE JIMMY 
John's 

Lacrosse 
continued from page 20 
pressure of the situation. we just didn't handle it very well." 
Coming into the game, the Irish were sitting at 5-2 and needed to win out in order to guarantee themselves a spot in the NCAA tournament. 
Now they will have to rely on outside circumstances. After a scoreless first quarter, Denver got on the board with 
13:58 remaining on Ryan Zordani's fourth goal of the sea­son. 
Notre Dame quickly answered back when Drew Peters netted his second goal of the year with 
11:56 remaining. 
The rest of the game pro­gressed accordingly. Denver would score, the Irish would answer, and then Denver would respond again shortly after. 
Denver's defense was also relentless. 
"They played very well. They pressured us all over the field,'' Corrigan said. "I thought we were athletic enough to handle that pressure, but we didn't look like it today." 
Denver took the lead 3-2. 3:15 before the half on Matt Brown's 21st goal of the season. 
The Irish came out of halftime and quickly tied the game at three when Brian Giordano found Jim Morrison with a clear shot at the net. 
Unfortunately for the Irish, Denver scored back-to-back goals 15 seconds apart and regained the lead for good. 
Morrison and Peters each had two goals for the Irish. Matt Karweck added a goal and two 
South &md's Only Authentic Irish Public House 
TEMPEST! 
LIVE IN CONCERT-SUN APRIL 10, 8pm High Energy Rock with Celtic Roots $5 Coveratthe Door($3 with student 10) 
25% StudentDiscounton Food(Always) 
127 N. Main Street (between Colfax & Washington) (574) 232-2853 .-www.fiddlershearth.com 
® 

~! 
l.. .....! 
assists in the loss. The Irish now need to focus on Sunday's game with Air Force. 
"We'II lind out what the char­acter of our guys is," Corrigan said. "This is a gut check lin· our guys -you got to get ready to play on Sunday. Those people aren't going to foci sorry for you. They are coming here, and they are going to try to win a game." 
Corrigan stressed that while the loss hurt, it was not the end of the season. There are several games left. and the Irish have their chance to make things hap­pen. 
"Our season's not lost, there are games all over the country right now. We don't where these guys are going to finish; we don't know where we are going to lin­ish," Corrigan said. "We just gotta take care of what we can do. We control the next three games; that's all we control." 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 

"More fun Than Any Other Show Of The last Decade" 
. (hica¥o lrHJUAl' 

Morris Performing Arts Center Aptll 12·17, 2005 
for tickets c.all574.235.9190 or toll free at 800.537.6415 
www.Bro<tdwayThutr~l~a~ue.com 

.;91'P!~~! 
,....·-~:ll'o! 
•=:::..~~ 
-~(.. 

~~...... ~-""""""" ..b.o...~fh ........, 
Before you buy a diamond, call us for a free quote, you will be glad you did. 
John M. Marshall's, Inc. 
J<::Stablished H)65 
Jewelers Gemologist, G.G., F.G.A. I Mineralogist, M.A. Goldsmiths I Platinumsmiths 
Telephone7 287-1427 Monday-Friday, lOa.rn. to 6p.rn. 
Key Bank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 

Friday, April 8, 2005 

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
Bailers 
continued from page 20 
from his cheering section in the crowd. 
"I think Dan Ott had an excel­lent performance," Saltine fan and Dan Ott enthusiast Pat Leimkuehar said. "There were even cries of 'good shot honey' from his girlfriend on the side­lines." 
Ott's girlfriend, Karen Wiborgh, was unavailable for comment. 
Off In The Shower struggled offensively all game, committing seventeen turnovers. Their lead­ing scorer was center Mike Telerio with four points. Telerio struggled on the defensive end, however, and was unable to con­tain Lund and Tocey. 
Lund capped the contest with a game-point breakaway dunk after a steal from Ott. The center, who had previously declined dunking on a fast break in favor of a layup, gave his reasoning after the game. 
"We were in a hurry to get home and watch The O.C.', so I thought a dunk was the quickest way to end it," he said. 
The Saltines showed confi­dence heading into the later rounds of the tournament. despite the fact their next oppo­nent also has two players approaching six-and-a-half feet tall in its lineup. 
"Our next opponent has a cou­ple guys who are 6-foot-5, but then again. so do we," Lund said. "We feel like we're as talented as any team we've seen so far." 
The Mila Experience Featuring Srsen 21, Rob's Got Game And So Does His Flat Twenty Harem 
3 
In one of the most dominating defensive performances of the night, The Miia Experience Featuring Srsen blew out Rob's Got Game And So Does His Flat Twenty Harem 21-3. After the game, Experience captain Miia Rasine and her team began a new victory tradition that they hope will continue for several games. 
''I'm going to take them all out for ice cream now." Rasine said following the final basket. 
The Experience scored the first fourteen points of the night, keyed by hot shooting from point guard Mark Srsen. who scored seven points for the game. 
The Harem had trouble finding a rhythm on offense and lost con­fidence after missing several open shots early. The Experience defense was suffocating, forcing 21 turnovers. 
After the game, Experience players were humble, playing down their dominating perform­ance. 
"It was a hard fought battle from start to finish despite the score," Srsen said. "The other team fought hard. It was a lot of fun to play against them.'' 
Srsen also expressed reserva­tions about his team's chances to advance beyond the next round. 

''I'd say we have a 25 percent chance, depending on who we play," he said. 
But experienced forward Mark Hubrty was more confident. 
''I'm going to dunk on [Irish varsity quarterback] Brady [Quinn]," he said. 
Hubrty did not dunk during Thursday night's game. 
Black Wall Street 21, Promise Billing 16 
The Black Wall Street versus Promise Billing game featured the most heartwarming come­back story of the young Bookstore Basketball tourna­ment. BWS shooting guard Kevin Fussner returned to Bookstore action for the first time since los­ing a nipple in action last year in the 21-16 Black Wall Street win. 
"Last year at Bookstore we were playing shirts and skins and I took a dive and actually lost part of my nipple," Fussner said. "Luckily, it grew back since.'' 
Fussner played valiantly through the pain that fateful day, but it was not enough. 
~·we ended up losing that game," he said. "This was my first game since losing the nipple. It was hard to overcome that." 
Promise Billing forward Nicole Gill felt Fussner's injury might turn out to be a disadvantage for BWS. 
"We thought we'd have an advantage because their team only had nine nipples," she said. 
As a show of good faith and sympathy for Fussner's injury. 
· the Promisers invited BWS over for a pre-game get together. However, the proceedings turned sour when two Black Wall Street players did not show up. 
"It wasn't fair. Two of their players skipped out on our pre­game festivities," Promise Billing point guard Megan Miller said. 
The flap over the pre-game meeting turned the game testy early. Miller went down with a bloody nose midway through the first half but returned to action and went on to score six points. 
"It really hurt, but I sacrificed for the team," Miller said of her injury. 
Promise Billing kept the game close with hot outside shooting, a skill Miller says the team had practiced frequently by book­store standards. 
"We worked on [our shooting) for six weeks in practice, every day.~ she said. 
Black Wall Street opened the game in a zone defense but quickly abandoned it when Promise Billing got hot froni the outside. 
"We started in the 2-3 zone to conserve energy, but it didn't really work," he said. "They started hitting outside shots and we had nothing." 
Promise Billing eventually cooled down. however, and the game became mired in defense. All in all, it took over an hour to play. 
However, Fussner said the long duration of play did not bother him. 
"I didn't realize it took an hour. It was fun," he said. "But I was winded the whole time." 
Promise Billing brought out their special "suit jacket and tie" uniforms for the big game in an attempt to gain extra motivation. Promisers fan Claire Ferris explained the significance of the special uniforms. 
"We're playing Black Wall Street, so we thought we'd fake them out a little by wearing suit 
Students Call Before You Pack!!! Free delivery on boxes and supplies 

We alsc> ila~~ •mpplies AI M.W. :wd MdGBI<y Sdi StOnl\,'<' 70'7 E. McKinl<y 1\ve Mish~wru. lN 46545 

Cheap boxes!!! As low as $1.00 
Tel: 574-256-5339 
jackets and ties," Ferris said. "It's reverse psychology." 
Our Lawyers Made Us Change The Name Of Our Team So We Wouldn't Get Sued 21, We Heart Spooning 7 
Although We Heart Spooning was fired up going into their game with Our Lawyers Made Us Change The Name Of Our Team So We Wouldn't Get Sued, it was not enough to stop the athleti­cism of the Unsued. 
The Spooners bounced onto the court yelling and firing up the crowd at the beginning of the game, only to fall behind 11-1 at halftime and go on to lose 21-7. 
Unsued captain and small for­ward Tom Meyer attributed his team's victory to their unusual training techniques. 
"We spooned a lot," he said. "We love spooning. They say they heart spooning, but we must like it more." 
. Also key to the Unsued victory was the play of center Matt Bold. Bold, who wears an afro wig while competing, scored six points in the contest. 
"The fro gives him an extra couple inches," Meyer said. Bold said the hair has further significance as well. • 
"It's for character, but it's also performance enhancing," Bold said. "When I wear it, I can fly. The air gets up underneath it and lifts me off." 
After Bold and the Unsued jumped out to a quick lead, the Spooners played even with them for much of the second half. Unfortunately, they went cold again when the score reached 18-7. The Unsued then scored three straight for the win. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
Baseball 
continued from page 20 
we've got and in a seven-inning game, if he can give us 5, 6, maybe even a complete game ­all of a sudden you have Tom Thornton pitching in the two slot, which gives us a better matchup. 
"Maybe that saves the bullpen a little for game three," he contin­ued. ''I'm hoping that will be a spark for us." 
Last season Notre Dame split its regular-season series with Boston College before defeating tho Eagles in the opening round and the title game of the Big East Tournament. 
Boston College leads the Big East with a 6-1 record. with all of those conference games coming on the road. 
"They are doing well. You can see their program growing through the years. It's going to be a tremendous challenge for us," Mainieri said. "We have to go out there and compete hard this weekend and get whatever we can, come back and regroup and hopefully make our stretch run at home." 
Manship is slated to start game 
· Ahree of the weekend series. IIe didn't make the trip to Rutgers last weekend after feeling some discomfort during his mid-week throwing. 
But Mainieri said Manship felt pretty good after throwing on Tuesday. 
"He'll start the game on Sunday at Boston. hopefully give us two or three innings and be a step in his progression," Mainieri said. 
Contact Matt Lozar at mlozar@nd.edu 

RESTAURANT 
Now Hiring Experienced Server Apply in Person 
211 N. Main St. Downtown South Bend 
232---4445 
www. SiamThaiSouthBend .com 
Saturdav, April 9th Gold Game at 10 am 
at Courtney Tennis Center 
Irish Women's Tennis vs William & Mary 
First 100 fans will receive a Gold Games shirt sponsored by South Bend Orthopaedics 
ADMISSION IS FREE! 
SUDd8V, April 10th Final"~~~~:~ason Women's Lacrosse #9 Men's Lacrosse vs Stanford vs Air Force. 
Moose Krause Stad1um 
"First 300 fans will receive aND seat
atNoon 

cushion from Famous Dove's and
Loftus Sports Center 
McDcnald's Physical TherapyFirst 150 Fans will receive ""Famous Dave's tailgating party, while supplies last
a leprechaun nesting doH! 
student wil win a pa1r of round-trip 
ADMISSION iS FREE! 
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
r-----------------------~Er----------·------------~ir-----------------------~ 
~ VJALLy I YOUR LAZINESS f1 50 I THEN YVONNE CON­
HAND-PICKED YOU 

g HELPS YOU ACCOMPLISH => VINCED ME TO DO HER
TWO FOR MY TEAM 

1 THE MOST WORK WITH ~ WORK AND WALLY WENT
BECAUSE WE HAVE NO 

~ THE LEAST EFFORT. ~ ON DISABILITY LEAVE.
BUDGET. 

~ YVONNE I YOUR HOTNESS ~ 
I 

~ GIVES YOU THE POWER 
CD</i 
CHARLES SCHULZ 
PEANUTS 


Friday, April 8, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 
HENRI ARNOLD 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
VAHBEE 

WHAT He: t::ND~ UP WITH WHf:'N HE PAID
rrJ 

GOOD MONt::Y TD 
www jumble com 
L-05[: Wt::IGHT.
tBLYMAC t 


Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J I I J I 

suggested by the above cartoon. 
~r here: (II I JoF( I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' Jumbles BOUGH CRAZE DISCUS WEAPON s Answer: After hitting the showers. the aging pitcher was-"WASHED" UP 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 There are 745.7 46 Carrier of of them in one devastating
1 Tom, to Samuel horsepower cargo
F. B. Morse 28 Levelheaded 48 Verdi work
7 Not let the lees whose title 
settle 31 Film technique 

character is a 13 Throughway bandit
32 Hotel amenity 
33 Case for a podiatrist 

14 Exploitative 50 Lee of literature 
employer 51 In final form, as 34 Part of le

15 Some urban a film 
printemps
legends 52 Reporter who 

35 Line of cliffs 

16 Front uses shoe 39 Spanish leather
17 Kind of moth pronoun 53 Meet people 18 New York· 40 Englishbased TV host 
philosopher 20 Numbers George Henry DOWN preceder: Abbr. 
1 Pale violet 21 Creep 
42 Scoundrel 

2 Here and the1·e 43 ai-Khaimah22 Folk singer (one of theJohn 
United Arab 23 French chef's Emirates) mushroom 
44 Early in the 24 Take breath morning 
26 11-time 1930's-45 48-Across 40's All-Star feature 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

3 Golf lesson topic 4 Most dice 5 Up until 6 Techie administrator 7 Peep show 8 Isn't that just perfect? 9 High class?: Abbr. 

1 o Act of dressing and groomin~1 oneself 
12 "Superman and the Mole Men" star, 1951 
14 Angle 
16 Waste 
19 Award for showing 
THE OBSERVEit 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

23 One who may adjust a belt 
25 Lays 
27 Some noncombatants, for short 
29 First name in horror 

30 Joseph C. Lin~~ln's "Cap'n 
31 Dirt-cheap 32 Singer Cash 33 Total, e.g. 36 Make sparkling 37 "Fatal Instinct" 
director 38 They're checked 40 Wearer of three 
stars: Abbr. 41 Unkind look 44 Rubaiyat stanza 
scheme 
47 Skedaddle 
49 Package info: 
Abbr. 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TillS DAY: Russell Crowe, 41; Jackie Chan, 51; Janis lan, 54; James Garner, 77 Happy Birthday: There isn't anything you can't do if you put your mind to it, but don't go overboard. Less can be more if it is done superbly. This is I he year for quality rather than quantity, so pick and choose your options with care. Travel, learning and putting your plans into motion should be your main s.:oncem. Your numbers are 3, 18, 22, 23, 35, 40 ARIES (March 21-Apri119): You will have the edge today as long as you don't let your impatience ruin a chance to get ahead. Do things yourself. Eflicicncy coupled with your ability to expedite your objectives will be what counts. ••• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your mind may be on simple pleasures, hul if you don't take care of business first, you may end up fretting about something that you could have avoided. A secret affair may develop with someone you meet. Get tl1e lowdown on this person before you proceed. • •• GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): Contribute all that you can to a cause you feel passionate about. Working late will lead to a dmnce meeting with someone who will offer you an opportunity. Make plans for your next vacation. •••• CANCER (.June 21-.July 22): You may be your own worst enemy if you arc stubborn or refuse to get along with the people around you. It will he difficuli, bui a positive outlook when dealing with otiJCrs will make a difference to the outcome of everything you do today. •• LEO (July B-Aug. 22): You can make things happen if you sci your mind to it. An investment or cutting a deal with someone regarding a new contract will bring in more cash. Consider making a move that will result in more professional opportunities. ••••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Someone you meet will be hard to resist. You should be able to make a personal or financial change resulttng in a brighter future. Be sure lo make romantic plans for late in the day. •• • LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Be careful not to avoid a problem with your partner or someone you want to develop a relationship with. Social events will bring you in contact with someone you haven't seen for some time. Beware of a jealous individual.*** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You must do everything possible to get ahead in business, especially if it deals with the creative or the unique. An attempt to improve your health and attitude ··with exercise and proper diet·· will pay off. 
SAGITTARilJS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): Not everyone will agree with what you want to do, but you should move forward regardless. Be content with your surroundings and your direction in life. You have to stop living your life for other people.***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): Not everyone will be thinking the same way you are today. Keep things to yourself to get more accomplished without disturbances or opposition. An idea you have could change how you cam a living. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): You will attract attention and the potential to engage in a partnership that can influence your future. Do whatever it takes to tum your life around. This is an ideal time to change past mistakes into something positive. •••• PISCES (l<'eb. 19-March 20): You should be off to the races when it comes In getting things done that will enhance your eaming potential. Put in extra hours if necessary. Drum up help and put your crcati ve ideas into play. • • • Birthday Baby: You arc concemed with what everyone else is doing and whal 
. you can do to improve your life and the lives of those you care about. You will stand up and do your thing without hesitation. You are a mover and a shaker 
Eugt•nia'.'i Wt·h .~·ites: aslroculvice.l'om.f(Jr.fim. f'UKt:nialwa.comj(n-crmjirlential nm.wltutirms 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ___________________________________________ Address ___________________________________ City ______________ State _______ Zip_______ 
. 
, .... ;
. ' ' 


THE 0BSER\'ER 

PORTS
Friday, April 8, 2005 
page 20 
BASEBALL 
Kapala to get first career start against Eagles 
CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer 

Tight end Anthony Fasano is brought down by a Purdue defender. Fasano was Notre Dame's second-leading receiver last season. 
,.. 
ND SOFTBALL 
Hartmann sparks Irish comeback 
Fourth-inning home run hoists team over Cardinals in 4-1 win 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER 
Senior Staff Writer 
With the Irish playing sloppy softball and her team down 1­0 in the fourth inning, Liz Hartmann took matters into her own hands. 
With runners on the corners and one out, Hartmann blast­ed a home run to left field off Ball State starter Amy Brownfield. Notre Dame took the lead and would add an insurance run later in the inning to earn a 4-1 victory. 
"I rounded first thinking the ball was going to hit off the wall, but I saw the umpire sig­nal that it was out. I was shocked," Hartmann said. "I was sure it was going to graze the top of the wall. It was nice to take the lead and put them away after a sloppy beginning to the game." 
With the victory, Notre Dame (22-8) extended its winning streak to 11 games. Ball State (12-23) only managed three hits all game off Irish pitchers Heather Booth and Steffany Stenglein. 
Booth started the game, pitching the first four innings and allowing three hits and one unearned run. She was replaced in the fifth inning by Stenglein, who did not allow a single Ball State baserunner and struck out six of the nine batters she faced, including five in a row at one point. 
"Heather really only gave up one hard hit ball," Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. "Most of the hits were little dribblers. but those caused damage because they were able to 
see RALLYIpage 1 7 
I 

Senior right-handed pitcher Steffany Stenglein winds up against Ball State on Thursday. 
MEN'S LACROSSE 
Struggling team falls to Denver 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Associate SportS Editor 
The Irish knew coming into Thursday's game with Denver that they were going to have their hands full. 
What they did not know was that they would be outplayed on both ends and fall 9-6 to a team that was equally hungry for a win coming into the game. 
Notre Dame learned exactly why every game matters. as it dropped its first league game this season at a time when the Irish needed it most. 
"We just didn't respond well to the pressure today," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. "To their pressure on the field, to the 
see LACROSSE/page 17 

By MATT LOZAR 
Senior Staff Writer 
Sitting at 14-13 overall, 3-3 in the Big East and traveling to con­ference leader Boston College this weekend, Irish coach Paul Mainieri refuses to panic. 
"lt's a hard thing for you to believe, but it's still early in the season," Mainieri said. "We've only played six league games, we 
FOOTBALL 

Weis details plans for tight ends 
still have 18 to go. It's obvious that we have some areas in our team that aren't playing up to the level that we are accustomed to over the past decade." 
With the slow start to this sea­son, the only way the Irish are getting into the NCAA tournament is by winning the Big East post­season tournament. 
After Wednesday's 14-5 loss to Ball State, Mainieri spoke of how the team needs to reestablish its 


WOMEN~s lACROSSE 
Notre Dame vs. Duke 
Friday, 4 p.m. 

The Irish take on the No. 2 Blue Devils today. 
page 16 
WOMEN~S TENNIS 
Notre Dame vs. William & Mary 
Saturday, 10 a.m. 
Warm weather means the Irish will move out­doors. 
page 15 
goals for this season, which now entail fmishing in the top four in the conference and grabbing the conference's automatir bid. 
Losing five players to the Major League Baseball draft. along with the slow recoveries of John Axford and Jeff Manship, has hurt the Irish in trying to maintain the success this program has experi­enced during the Mainieri era. 
"Every year we've been playing for the regular season champi-
By PAT LEONARD 
Sports Writer 
The tight end position was Notre Dame's deepest last sea­son, but the five players who saw action there combined to catch only 48 passes in 12 games. That's just 24.6 percent of the 195 passes completed by quarterback Brady Quinn. 
Early on in Charlie Weis' first spring practice season, howev­er, the Irish now are talking about playing two and three­tight end sets, using the talent available and benefiting from a proven strength in the offen­
"We feel our height is a great
see FOOTBALL/page 16 · 

WOMEN'S ROWING 
Indiana schools will face off at Eagle Creek Reservoir this Saturday. 
page 15 
MEtfS TENNIS

PGA TOUR 
Masters delayed 
Notre Dame vs. due to rain 
Barr State 

The Irish are hoping Bad weather means 
to finish their season on that most golfers have 
a high note at 1 p.m. on yet to finish a round in 
Saturday. this year's field. 
page 14 page 12 
onship or the NCAA-we're thinking College World Series," Mainieri said. "All of a sudden you lose some great players, and you can't overcome it as much as you should have." 
Trying to find some sort of spark for a team that hasn't got­ten hot yet, Mainieri will start pitcher Dan Kapala in the opening game of the series against the Eagles. Kapala is getting his first career start, which pushes back 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIV 
Saltines use height to dotninate in 21-4 win 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Sports Writer 
Twin towers Brent "Heign Man" Locey and Chris Lund made their presence felt Thursday night at the Bookstore courts. 
The pair, who tower over defenders at the height of 6­foot-5, combined for eight points in the Saltines' 21-4 shel­lacking of Off In The Shower, a win that may give the Saltines enough momentum to penetrate deep into the tournament. 
Tom Thornton to the No. 2 start­ing position against Boston College, a place where he pitched for the majority of the 2004 sea­son. 
"We're going to try something this weekend. Dan Kapala is going get his first career start in the seven inning game at Boston College," Mainieri said. "Danny throws the ball as hard as anyone 
see BASEBALL/page 18 

advantage," Lund said. "We really think it will take us far in the tournament." 
Saltines fans were equally enthusiastic about the play of their big men. 
"Brent Locey, a.k.a. Reign Man, really came to play today." Saltines supporter Jude Miller said. "His looks were only matched by his shots." 
Also key in the game was Saltine point guard and fan favorite Dan Ott. Ott poured in six points and dished out three assists that drew large cheers 
see BALLERS/page 18 
NO WOMEf•fS GOLF 
After two straight tournament victories, the Irish hope to per­form well at the Boilermakers In vita­tiona!. 
page 12 

l_____ 



