
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
OLUME 40: ISSUE 2 WEDNESDAY. AUGUST 24.2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Jenkins aillls to symbolize ND values in ne-w presidency 

By MAD DIE HANNA Associare News Edimr 
Since taking office on July 1, University President Father John Jenkins has assumed more than a new title -he has become the human embodiment of Notre Dame. 
"The president has a symbolic role for the whole University," Jenkins said Tuesday. "You do things that are func­tional, you have meetings, you make decisions, and that's all important, but the whole dimension of playing that symbolic role ... even to the nation at large, the world at large, I think that is the thing that may be the most surpris­ing and has been the biggest adjustment." See Also 
l-Ie says becoming "Opening Mass "that presence" is a 
process. And just as marks new he once applauded academic year" University President Emeritus Father page3 
Edward "Monk" Malloy for skillfully setting the tone for the University, Jenkins too has been set­ting his own tone. 

"I've spoken with the deans and chairs, I've spoken with various divi­sions in tho University and really I've tried to articulate what I think is impor­tant at Notrn Dame," Jenkins said. 
For the new president, that means focusing on several ideas. 
"We act with integrity. There's a sens1~ of teamwork here," he said. "Notre Dame has a spedal mission, and every­body has a leadership role and has to understand that, and in a way that reflects that leadership and excellence. 
see JENKINS/page 6 

Frosh-0 gender tensions tackled 
Staffers, student government officials work to foster healthier environment between sexes 
Hditor 's Note: This article is the first in a periodic series examining gender relations at Notre Dame and .'-J"aint Mary's. 
By KATE ANTONACCI and 
KAREN LANGLEY 
News Wrilers 
While Kyle Hocca enjoyed Freshman Orientation Weekend, something struck tho Walsh llall freshman as strange. 
Depending on whether Walsh was socializing with a men's dorm or women's dorm. she said, the mixer 1wents took on a deddndly difforent tone. 
"Any timo that we were with a girls' dorm was in a sit-down activity. With thn guys' dorms, it's always a physkal, touching activity," Hocca said Sunday, pointing to the intertwined limbs of Walsh and Alumni Hall freshmen doing the "liuman knot." 
"With girls it is not onn-on­onn, but with boys it's like, 'lh1rn's your datn,"' Hoeca said. "I've had fun, but it's awkward. It's not normal social function­ing." 
Hocea's obsnrvations spell out the feelings of many Notre liame students about Freshman Orientation weekend, the University's annual activity­packnd crash course in dorm life. Designed to allow new stu­dents to meet as many of their peers as possible while dis­tracting them from homesick­ness, Frosh-0 instead often becomes a source of lasting tension between the sexns at Notre Dame, students and University ortkials said. 
"Frosh-0 is the time during which initial impressions of campus culture and gender norms at the University are established in the minds of freshmen," said Ali Wishon, ehairpnrson of the Student Senate Gender Issues Committee. "By encouraging events that rninforce typical gender stereotypes and the col­lege 'hook-up' culture, we are setting a dangerous precedent for freshmen to uphold." 
Creating unhealthy relation­ships between the sexes is not the University's intended out­eomn for orientation weekend, said Ann Firth, Associate Vice President for Student Affairs. 
"Freshman Orinntation is simply how we welcome the 
see GENDER/page 8 

Burish na111ed pr_ovost 
By KATE ANTONACCI Associare News EJiror 
The Board of' Trustees 
elected 1972 Notre Damn 
graduate Thomas Burish to 
the position of University 
Provost on .July 21. l'ollow­
ing the .July I dnparture of' 
Nathan llatch, who lwld 
Notre Dame's second-rank­
ing administrative post l'or 
nine ynars. 
"The wonderful thing about Tom Burish is hn brings a really rnmarkabln resunH\ Iandi a set of' experiences, as an acadnmie and in thn administration," University Presidnnt Father .John .Jenkins said Tuesday. 
Burish, formnrly thP president of Washington and Lee Univnrsity in Lexington, Va., is now the chin!' acadnm ic ofl'ienr or Notre Dame, oversnning all academic programs and functions. 
"llis responsibilitins 
see PROVOST/page 9 

London abroad progratn continues 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 

Saint Mary's EJiwr  
The Notre Damn under­ 
graduate London program  
will continun this fall  as  
originally planned despite  
the eoordinated terrorist  
attacks July 7 that killed 52  
peopln and injurnd  more  
than 700 in the British city,  
program ollieials said.  
No students pulled out of'  
the program in response to  
the four deadly explosions,  
three  on  underground  
trains and  one  on  a  bus,  
assoeiate program direetor  
Dozens of people were killed July 7 in the London bombings, one of  
see LONDON/page 6  which struck a doubledecker bus in Tavistock Square, seen above.  




Notre Dame says ticket lottery goes smoothly 
By EILEEN DUFFY 
News Writer 
Students arriving at Notre Dame Stadium Monday and Tuesday to claim their lottery numbers and season football tickets -recently raised to $168 apiece for Notre Dame students and $225 for Saint Mary's students -discovered a lottery process that went smoothly, said Cappy Gagnon, coordinator of stadium person­nel. 
Tickets were issued to 2,000 seniors in about two hours Tuesday, director of tieket operations .Josh Berlo said. 

Implemented in 1999, the football tieket lottery systmn is designed to ensure student seating together. Tho lottery system rnquires students to travnl to the stadium to rnceivn a lottery number, then return to tho stadium to rntrievn their season ticket booklet. The lot­tery number 1561 was drawn Monday night and the student with that number received the
. 
see TICKETS/page 9 

,----------­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, August 24, 2005 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: How EFFECTIVE DO YOU THINK FROSH-0 IS FOR NO AND SMC FRESHMEN?
INSIDE COLUMN 

Sun1n1er lessons 
Another summer has come and gone, and so has the annual family trip up north to little Glen Arbor in northern Michigan. Although the idea of "family time" usually makes me cringe, this summer's trip caused me to see Maddie Hanna things a little dif­ferently. 
When I was little, Associate as our minivan News Editor crawled onto the freeway out of Milwaukee, the general mood was one of anticipation. But that youthful happi­ness always disintegrated quickly. My brother, two years my junior, was quite tenacious in our backseat battles. Still, he couldn't compete when I dug my fin­gernails into his skin. Thatmove was a winner. 
Once I turned 16, however, we start­ed taking two cars. By then, I'm posi­tive that if all four of us had driven together, someone would have died. Homicide kind of puts a damper on a vacation. The problem with two cars was that I often got stuck riding with my mom. Age 16 seems to be when mother-daughter tensions peak, and when you factor in my mom's need to stop every 20 minutes to use a rest­room, the journey was basically miser­able. 
This year, however, marked a new milestone for our family. My brother and I drove together. It seemed like a better option than slowly going insane with my mother. 
But this grand plan began to go downhill. Once we hit torrential rains in Chicago that forced many drivers to put on their hazards and pull over, my bro was fast asleep, leaving me to fend {(Jr myself. Almost immediately after opening his eyes, he insisted I drive faster. Given my sub-par driving record -an incident where I rear-ended a car last summer prompted my parents to say, "You might want to lay low for a while" -I like to cruise at a safe nine over. So I suggested he drive. 
This turned out to be a bad call on my part. I sat stiflly upright the whole time, mostly due to comments like "Oops, I didn't know we were going 100." There was also his road rage; apparently, anyone who passes my brother is a trashy (insert obscenity of your choice) here. Furthermore, I had to shell pistachios for him, since he decided to purchase the most incon­venient driving food possible from the gas station. 
It should also be noted that the car reeked of Slim Jims and feet. I don't even want to go into that one. 
Throughout the 10 hours of hell, I realized I have a soft spot for the kid, horrendous odors and all. He follows me around, trying to tell me stories to make me laugh. Sometimes he surpris­es me with insightful remarks that I never expected him to share with me. 
I've been gone a year now. I'm the token college girl that comes home and clashes with my parent<> over rules -. seriously, one time my mom tried to tell me I had parietals. But despite our dif­ferences, my family is still there for me. 
Even better is that my Notre Dame family was waiting for me when I got back. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all rimes. We do, however, recognize that we will .make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

Julian Lagoy 
sophomore Siegfried 
"It makes me want to avoid girls even 
more. 


Vihn Nguyen 
ju.nior Stanford 
"University says OK as long as it's before 12 a.m. 

Monique Alaniz 
senior Farley 
"It forces people to meet/love each other. Love should come naturally. " "The University stresses meeting people. ofthe opposite sex right away, which shows there are gender relations problems." "It would be "Awkward., 





more effective if they got rid of parietals. " 

Students gather for a barbeque on DeBartolo Quad Tuesday following the opening Mass in the Joyce Center, where Father John Jenkins gave his first homily as University President. A fireworks show followed the picnic. 
OFFBEAT 
N.Y. man in record book for eyebrow hair 
SARANAC, N.Y.-A 43­year-old North Country man has made the Guinness Book of World Records in a new entry for the longest eyebrow hair. 
Frank Ames of Saranac in Clinton County measured in at 3.078 inches, or about 
7.8 centimeters. 
"I don't know why it grows like that; it just always has," Ames told the Press-Republican of Plattsburgh. 
Ames's journey toward notoriety began almost two years ago when a co-work­er at Bombardier Corp. 

noticed the bushy brow and suggested he try for a record. Ames then decided to go for it, but diseovered that no such category exist­ed. 
Dog alerts neighbors when woman collapses 
ELKHART, Ind. -A pint­sized dog is being credited with helping get prompt medical attention for a woman who collapsed in her home during a diabetic fainting spell. 
When Marlene Huffer fainted Aug. 11, Danny ­the Pomeranian mix she's caring for-began barking loudly and racing back and 
DUSTIN MENNELLA/The Observer 
forth inside. 
Neighbor Colleen Willits, who had heard a report on her police scanner about a woman screaming at the home, went next door to check on Huffer. 
After Huffer failed to come to the door and Willits heard Danny's frantic bark­ing, she called paramedics, telling them she thought Huffer needed help. 
"I said, 'Look at that dog, there is something wrong. He wouldn't act like that if there was nothing wrong,"' Willits said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

WEDNESDAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
0::: 
1.&1 
:::t: 
~ 
1.&1 

3: 
..... 
~ 
<
(.) 




0 HIGH 79 HIGH 58 HIGH 81 HIGH 83
·...I LOW 70 LOW 49 LOW 60 LOW 66 
~ 
IN BRIEF 

The Graduate Student Union is holding a picnic Thursday from 5:30p.m. to 7:30 for grad­uate, law and MBA students in the Fischer-O'Hara-Grace parking lot. 
Burt Levy, an author and vin­tage European sports car spe­cialist, will give a lecture Thursday entitled "Italian Carrozzerie: Sculpture with Soul, Speed, Passio-n and Purpose." The event will be held from 7 p.m. to 9 in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum of Art. The event is free and open to the public. 
The International Student Orientation will take place Thursday from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The volleyball team will face off against Michigan at 7 p.m. Saturday in the Joyce Center Arena. 
Photographs by Sebastiiio Salgado will be exhibited from 
8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. begin­ning Sunday in the O'Shaughnessy Galleries II and III of the Snite Museum of Art. The photographs are on loan from the Yancey Richardson Gallery in New York. 
The Show, featuring bands Akon and Cake, will take place Friday at 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center. Doors open at 7. Students must bring a valid 10 card to gain admittance. Tickets may be purchased at the LaFortune Box Office. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

HIGH 83 HIGH 85 LOW 63 LOW 64 
Atlanta 87 I 68 Boston 71 I 62 Chicago 78 I 61 Denver 86 I 61 Houston 94 I 75 Los Angeles 80 I 63 Minneapolis 80 I 62 New York 83 I 67 Philadelphia 84 I 65 Phoenix 99 I 84 Seattle 78 I 54 St. Louis 85 I 71 Tampa 91 I 77 Washington 84 I 66 
Wdnesday, August 24, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Opening Mass marks ne-w acadetnic year 
By KATIE PERRY News Writer 
Thousands of Notm Damn fac­ulty, staff and studnnts flooded tlw Joycn Cnntnr Tunsday nV<ming to cnlnhratn tho hnginning of anothnr sdwol ynar at the Votive Mass lnd by Univnrsity Prnsident Fathnr John Jnnkins. 
Jnnkins, who snrvnd as homilist for the event. called on students to senk inspiration for "fresh insight, creative nndnavors and moral and spiritual growth." 
Citing the seven gilb of the lloly Spirit -wisdom. understanding, council, fortitude, knowledge, pinty and filar of thn Lord -the lirst-year prnsidcnt ealled for stu­dnnts to bn morn open to the iiwvitablo difTiculties that lie alwad in tho coming school ynar. 
"To rncnive these gilt<> we must lmconw morn rnc~eptive ... and aware of our own nnndinnss," Jenkins said. "Wn may havn to disrnantiP prnsent understand­ings and comfiJrtabh~ charities." 
()unstioning a career path, nxpnrinnr.ing tlw unc~asinnss of lirst arriving at NotrP DamQ and facing ac:adPmie dif'fic:ultios can all load to frnsh pnrspnctivns and innovatiw approadws to nvnry­day struggles, Jmkins said. 
"(;od's gilt<> somntinws eomn in strangn forms," Jnnkins said, dt­ing confusion, loneliness and strife as sonw unnxpm:ted fenl­ings in whirh onn c:an find those gifts. "It is nngativn rnomnnts like these that can load to new and positive insight." 
At the conclusion of his first homily as Notre Dame president, Jnnkins romindod students to have open minds and hearts to hardships along tho way which may later reap greater, more pos­itivn rewards. 
Many students were excited about opening Mass, not only bneause it marks tho beginning of another school year, but beeause of' the tradition of the annual event. 
"I love going to opcming Mass. It brings me back to the first Mass I went to as a freshman, which always rnminds me of how lueky I am to go to Notre Dame," said junior Claire McArdle. "You look around the JACC and see stu­dents sitting together, represent­ing fWery dorm. I love that there is sehool unity and that faith is yot another factor that unitos the student body. It is an inspiring way to start the school year." 
Following Mass, Basilica Hector Father Peter Hocca urged stu­dnnts to partieipato in Jenkins' presidential inauguration from Sept. 22-23, calling it a "historic IWOnt." 
As part of the eelc~bration hon­oring Notre Dame's third presi­dnnt in 53 years, he invited stu­dnnts to attend an academic eon­vocation as well as the actual inauguration eeromony and ball. 
Contact Katie Perry at kperryS@nd.edu 

Fair caters to off-ca111pus students 
By MARY KATE MALONE 
News Writer 
Students living off-campus trickled into Notre Dame Stadium Monday afternoon to pick up football tickets and meal plans at the first ever ofl'-cam­pus fair -the brainchild of the new student government admin­istration of Dave Baron and Uzzi Shappell. 
Designed to inform the stu­dent body and provide them with oll'-eampus living and safe­ty tips, the fair also morphed into an event for loeal vendors to advertise their products, Baron said. 
"This event came out of last year's fall Board of Trustees report on off-eampus safety," he said. 
The fair was not mandatory but was the only means for stu­dents living oil' eampus to pick up their football tickets. 
For senior Dan Tudesco, the lair and the tieket pick-up was not worth the 45 minutes he spent driving to the stadium and waiting in line. 
"I think this !the fair! just makes everything a lot more complicated," Tudesco said. "It's ridiculous. There are wity too many steps in the tieket pur­chase process." 
Seniors had to piek up their ticket applieations at the fair, wait in line later to receive their lottery numbers and then return Tuesday to purehase their tick­ets. 
In recent years students living off campus have voiced eon­cerns that it is not convenient to drive to campus multiple times in order to receive their tickel<>. 

But Baron believes the fair and the tieket proeess make it easier for students ofl' eampus to sign up for services they need. 
"We like to make it as eonven­ient as possible," Baron said. "It's a good idea to hold an information fair for students bncausn for many of them this is their first time living alone." 
For many students. the free samples were tasty perks. 
Senior Pnter Kralovee enjoyed a slice of Papa John's pizza while making his way to the Notre Dame food services table. 
"I eame to get football tiekets, a meal plan and pizza," Kralovec said. 
Safety was already an issue discussed in his house on Napoleon Street, Kralovee said. 

"Security and safety is a prior­
ity," Kralovec said. "Plus, this ·rair is an opportunity to have a mini-orientation and to rneon­neet with. who is and isn't living 
oll'eampus." 
At tho South Bnnd Police 
Department table, Oflieer Aaron 
Cassel chatted with Officer 
Patrick llnchlinski bnhind stac~ks 
of safety pamphlnts. 
"Some kids f'cwl okay approaching us," llnllinski said. "Wn havn a lot of good inliJI'IIHl­tion for studnnts to bn awarn of." 
Crowds gatlwrml around thn SuppnrShop.eom tabln -whcm~ rnpresentativns wnrn snrving f'rnn lasagna and Mnxican benf for lunch. Martin's Supnrmarkc~t had sushi and eookin samplc~s. as wPII. 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at mmalone3@nd.edu 

r-------------------------------~-----------------------------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, August 24, 2005 
SMC tops ranking list again 
College named No. 1 in its category 
By JEN MALL 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's has been named the No. 1 Midwest comprehen-sive college for the 11th time in the past 12 years, according to the U.S. News and World Report's 2006 edition of "America's Best Colleges." 
In the rankings released this week, Saint Mary's reigned above the other 107 colleges in its category, including Calvin College and Marietta College, achieving a perfect score of 100. Saint Mary's ranked at the top in all categories, which included student selectivity, graduation rates, retention rates and commitment to instruction. 
Saint Mary's President Carol Ann Mooney said the ranking did not surprise her. 
"Saint Mary's educates women uncommonly well, and it's good to have our enduring quality reflected in these annual rankings," Mooney said in a press release. "But what the rank­ings don't show is that, after four years at Saint Mary's, our students become women who excel in business, the arts, medicine and academia. Our success as an institution can best be measured by our graduates who are powerful forces for good in their work­places, homes, communities, and parishes." 
Saint Mary's spokeswoman Melanie McDonald said that having a consistent No. 1 ranking associated with the institution is valuable. 
"Those who pay attention to the rankings know that the College has been No. 1 for a very long time, leaving with them an impression of endur­ing excellence," she said. "Our recognition as a first­rate institution comes from so much more than these rank­ings." 
Students also expressed excitement about the College's top ranking. 
"It's awesome that Saint Mary's is No. 1," said senior Stephanie Mason. "I definitely think this is an added bonus for me in the future as I pre­pare to enter the job market." 
The College's commitment to instruction is seen primari­ly in the small class sizes at Saint Mary's, Mooney said. 
"The rank reflects the qual­ity of student we enroll," Mooney said. 
ContactJen Mall at jmallO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


Student reports attetnpted burglary in dorm 
By LISA SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
An Alumni Hall resident reported an attempted bur­glary last week, Assistant Director of the Notre Dame Security/Police Phillip Johnson said. 
A man entered the men's dormitory and at approxi­mately 9:40a.m. Aug. 16 con­versed briefly with the stu­dent, who, while walking to a neighboring room, became worried that he did not lock his door, Johnson said. When he returned to his own room, the student discovered the man taking DVDs and putting them into a bag. 
Once the man was confront­ed, he fled without taking anything from the room. NDSP searched the area but did not find the suspect, Johnson said. 
Though the suspect was not found, Johnson said a crime was still prevented because the student followed his instincts, a response Johnson said is necessary to maintain a safe campus environ~ent. 
This type of crime -an 
unforced attempted burglary -is the most common on campus, Johnson said. Despite their frequency, such incidents are easily preventa­ble, he said. 
"We could virtually elimi­nate crime on campus if peo­ple [would] lock their· doors," Johnson said. "NDSP can't be in every dorm all the time." 
Johnson also recommended that students program NDSP's phone number into their cel­lular phones as a speed dial number to report suspicious activity on or around campus. 
Such an incident highlights the importance of people being responsible for others' safety when in a residence hall community, Johnson said. 
He also added that propping open doors and not locking dorm room doors are danger­ous to campus security. 
"You do [lock-your doors] everywhere else in the world, why not here?" Johnson said. "If people say NO is a safe campus, it is because people look out for each other." 
Contact Lisa Schultz at lschultz@nd.edu 

Audit • Tax • Transaction Advisory Services 
Quality In Everything We Do 
©2005 ERNST &YOUNG LLP 

n. 

Welcome back. Now it's full speed ahead. 
At Ernst & Young, we are committed to helping you accelerate your career because we recognize that it's your contributions that drive our success. Find out more about how you can grow and succeed with us. 
Please join us at the Notre Dame Fall Career Expo 2005 on September 14, 2005 at the Joyce Center. 
ey.comjusjcareers 

S!J f RNST& YOUNG 

.r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


ORLD & NATION 


Wednesday, August 24, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Peruvian airplane crashes in jungle 
LIMA, l'oru -A Peruvian airliner earrying I00 lJeopln <Taslwd as it attnmptnd an nmer­g<HH:y landing on a jungln highway Tuesday, killing at lnast fiw people and injuring 20 oth­ors. ollidals and radio rnports said. 
Pnruvian nwdia said as many as 40 were killnd, but thoro was no ollidal eonlirmation. 
Tlw Boning 7:{7 wont down ncar thn l'u<:allpa muniripal airport at 3:12 p.m., Norma Pasquol. a Purallpa airport roenption­ist. told Tlw Assoeiatod Press by phone. 
Tlw pilot contadnd tlw airport townr saying lw could not land boeause of strong winds and a torrontial downpour. shn said. Thn plane drdnd t.he airport until it trind to land on a rwarby highway. 
Iraqis resume charter talks 
BACIII>AI>, Iraq -Sunni Arab leadors showed no sign of compromise Tuesday as tlwy prnparod t.o resunw talks in yet anoihnr bid by tlw Shiit•~-IPd govnrnment to win approval of Iraq's nPw constitution. 
Tlw U.S. ambassador said ovnry ell'ort must IH~ mado to win Sunni agrnomnnt, but the chairman of llw drafting eommittm1 doubtnd that dill'nn~n<:ns could bn msolvnd quickly and suggnstnd parlianwnt might submit the eur­n•nt drart to votnrs. 
Failurn to win over tlw oncn-dominant minority would undercut llw U.S. strategy of using thn constitution to lure Sunni Arabs from tlw Sunni-dominated insurgeney so Amnrican and othnr fornign troops eould start to go homn. Bnrta Garcia, a sceretary at l'ueallpa's municipal hospital, told Hadioprogramas that livn bodies --those of four adults and a small boy -had been brought thern. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Wal-Mart employees shot to death 
(~IJ\NI>ALE, Ariz. -Two Wal-Mart employ­nos who wom gathering shopping carts were shot to dnath Ttwsday in tho parking lot of one of tho rntail storns in suburban Phonnix. 
The shootings occurred in the middle of the parking lot, about 75 yards from the store nntranen. A body eould bn seen in one of the corrals used for colleeting carts. 
Polien spokesman Mike Pena said authorities worn searching for the gunman. He said there were several witnesses to the shootings but would not idnntily them. 
Tlwrn was no immediate word on what 
might havn motivated the attacks. 
Delia (;arda, a Wai-Mart spokeswoman on the scenn, said the two victims wore collecting shopping earls whnn tho gunfire broke out. 

Obesity grows in nearly every state 
WASIIIN<;T<>N-Likn a lot of people, the nation's weight problom is seWing below its waistlirw. The stales with the highest pereent­agns of obese adults are mostly in the South: Mississippi, Alabama, Wost Virginia, Louisiana and Tnnnnssnn. 
In thn ontin~ nation, only Oregon isn't gotting faltlw. 
Sornn 22.7 pnrcnnt of Amnriean adults were obnsn in t.hn 2002-04 pnriod, up slightly from 22 pnreont for 2001-03, says the advocacy group Trust for America's llnalth, citing data from the C<Hltnrs for Disnasn Control and l'r<w1mtion. 
LOCAL NEWS 
State debt reaches decade high 
INI>IANAI'OI.IS -Indiana owes morn morwy than it has in ovnr a decade, with a tab topping $4 billion for such projects as prisons, govnrnment ol'licn complnxes, uni­vnrsity buildings and the Indiana State Musnum. 
ll will tako taxpaynrs years to pay it all ofT. IWIHl if lawmaknrs don't add another dime. 
As a porcnntage of personal income, the stato's dnbt is the higlwst since at least I 992, according to Moody's Investors Servicn. 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WlRE SERVJCES page 5 
Bush says mother's views misrepresent 
According to the president, many militcuyfamilies don't embrace Sheehan's demands 
Associated Press 

DONNELLY, Idaho ­
President Bush will spend 
two hours today with fami­
lies of soldiers killed in Iraq, 
but they won't include Cindy 
Sheehan. 

Bush said Tuesday he understood the anguish of the California woman whose son was killed in Iraq last year and who has main­tained a stubborn vigil near his Texas ranch. But he also challenged her, saying her demands for an immediate withdrawal of troops from Iraq wore not embraced by many military families and representnd a view contrary to the national interest. 
The shirt in emphasis came as thn White "House sought to deal with growing recognition of Sheehan as the face of a new anti-war movement. 
"I think those who advo­cate immediate withdrawal from not only Iraq but the Middle East are advocating a policy that would weaken the United States," Bush said. 
The president said U.S. troops in Iraq are keeping Americans safe and that Iraqis are making progress toward demoeraey. He urged patience as officials in Baghdad struggle to com­mountain getaway came Angeles last week after her try to help thnm and thn plete a constitution. between two speeches to 74-year-old mother had a eountry understand the 
"The faet that they're rally support for the war -stroke, but she is expectnd importance of the work even writing a constitution one Monday in Salt Lake to return to Texas in a few that's being done," is vastly diiTerent from living City and another days. Humsfeld said. under the iron hand of a Wednesday in Nampa, "Well, I did meet with Bush spoke onee before dictator," Bush said. Idaho, that is to be followed Cindy Sheehan," Bush said about Sheehan, during a 
Bush also said Israeli by more than two hours of Tuesday. "I strongly support /(m~if.,TJl policy summit at his Prime Minister Ariel Sharon private meetings with rela­her right to protest. There's ranch on Aug. 11. lie said had made a tough and tives of dead soldiers. a lot of people protesting. thnn, too, that he sympa­eourageous decision to Bush met Sheehan last And there's a lot of points or thized with her but dis­withdraw Jewish settle­year at a similar series of view about the Iraq war." agrned with her eall to bring ments from the Gaza Strip. meetings with families of He added: "She expressnd the troops home immediate­He said the next step was to the war dead. But Sheehan her opinion. I disagree with ly. establish a government in says there have been devel­it." lie said Tuesday, "Siw Gaza that responds to the opments since then and she At a Pentagon briefing, doesn't represent the view Palestinian people. has more she wants to say Defense Secretary Donald of a lot of tho l'amilics I have 
Bush, dressed in blue to him. H. Humsfeld was asked met with." jeans and a neeee jaeket, Her vigil in Crawford, about Sheehan's vigil and After spoaking to spoke underneath the tall Texas, has given momentum what he would say to hnr if reportnrs, Bush took a biko pine trees at the Tamarack to the peace movement, and he had the chance. "While it rid11 and thnn had dinnor Resort, where he is spend­even some Hepublicans has to be a heart-wrenching plans with Idaho (~ov. Dirk ing two nights away from have said Bush should meet thing for each of the fami­Kompthorne and tho state's his raneh. His visit to the with her. She flew to Los lies involved, our task is to eongressional delegation. 

VENEZUELA 




Country condemns Robertson's assassination call 
Associated Press 
CAHACAS -Pat Hobertson's call for Amnriean agents to assassinate President Ilugo Chavez is a "terror­ist" staternont that needs to be investigated by U.S. authorities, Venezuola said Tuesday. The Bush administration quickly distanced itself from the religious broadcaster. 
Hobertson's suggestion Monday that the United States "take out" Chavez to stop Venezuela from becoming a "launching pad for com­munist inl"luence and Muslim extremism" appeared likely to aggravate tensions between the United States and the world's fifth­largest oil exporting eountry. 
Chavez, who was demoeratieally elected, has emerged as one of the 
most outspoken critics of President Bush, accusing the United States of eonspiring to topple his government and possibly backing plots to assas­sinate him. The United States is the top buyer of Vnnezuelan oil, but Chavez has made it clear he wants to decrease the country's depend­ence on the U.S. market by finding other buyers. 
Winding up a visit to Cuba, Chavez said in response to questions from reporters at Havana's airport that he did not have inl'ormation about Hobertson's comments. 
"I haven't read anything. We haven't heard anything about him," Chavez said. "I don't even know who that person is." 
But Viee President Jose Vicentn Rangel said the U.S. response to 
Robertson would bn a test of its anti-terrorist policy and that Venezuela was studying its legal options. 
"The ball is in the U.S. court, at't11r this criminal statomont by a eitizen of that country," Hangnl said. "It's a huge hypocrisy to maintain this dis­eourse against terrorism and at tho same time, in the heart or that country, there are ontirely torrorist statements like those." 
Hangel called Hobertson "a man who seems to have quito a bit or inlluence in that country," adding sarcastieally that his words were "very Christian." lie said the com­ments "reveal that religious funda­mentalism is one or the great prob­lems facing humanity in these times." 
Wednesday, August 24, 2005

page 6 The Observer + NEWS 
ty getting to the train stations, they would send them home," Dunn said. · Karen Wons said. 

London 

"The Tube and buses were Philip O'Brien, whose daugh­
continued from page 1 
Terri Bays said. The 128 par­ticipants left for London Aug. 17. 
Bays did receive a number of phone calls from parents in the days after the attacks, but most were "overwhelmingly supportive" of the program continuing, Bays said. 
"We waited a few days [after the attack], and then we sent out a note via e-mail to the parents of the fall students reassuring them that we were continuing the program," Bays said. 'There would have to be some information that there was a significant growing dan­ger to the students such as the outbreak of war or specific terrorist attacks for the pro­gram to be canceled." 
Notre Dame students partici­pating in the summer engi­neering program were in London when the attacks occurred, but all were already in class the morning of July 7. 
Robert Dunn, director of the London engineering program, went to the classrooms to inform the students of the inci­dents. 
"We asked the students to stay in the Notre Dame build­ing until things quieted down," Dunn said. 
Many students intended to spend the three-day weekend traveling, but since the attacks took place on a Thursday, some students ran into difficul­closed down and all the cabs were really busy," Dunn said. 

The students responded "remarkably well" and kept in close contact with program directors for the duration of the summer, Dunn said. 
The city had largely returned to normal within a few da~, he said. · 
News of the attacks "deeply saddened" junior and fall pro­gram participant Meghan Wons, and it crossed her mind her semester abroad might be canceled. 
"Unfortunately, something like the July 7 attacks can hap­pen at any time and any­where," Wons said. "I didn't consider pulling out of the pro­gram but the July 7 attacks did make me warier of riding the Tube." 
Wons' mother Karen did consider asking her daughter not to go to London and has been watching the news very closely. 
"[Terrorism] certainly is a concern," Karen Woos said. "At the same time, I think it is just an incredible opportunity to do the study abroad experi­ence." 
Her elder daughter partici­pated in the London programs three years ago, and Karen Wons and her husband still plan on visiting their daughter for Thanksgiving. 
"I do have faith in the Notre Dame program that if they felt the situation was worsening ter Kathleen O'Brien is study­ing in London this semester, said while he was concerned about the attacks, he did not ask his daughter not to go. 
"We had some trepidation but we figured its part of life these days," O'Brien said. "The upside outweighs the risk." . 
Meghan Wons admitted that going to school in London after the July 7 attacks would be very different than living on campus in South Bend, and said she had received lots of advice from students who had gone in past semesters. 
"I think I will try to travel in groups and avoid taking the Tube as much as possible," Meghan Wons said. "I know a lot of my flatmates and friends here said that their parents did not want them taking the tube either, so we will all be doing a lot of walking togeth­er." 
Due to exterior threats, such as those from the Irish Republican Army, the under­graduate London program has had security measures in place since the late 1980s, Bays said. Guests are not allowed to stay overnight in Notre Dame hous­ing, and no one can enter the classroom building without an identification card. Students are also given a full security detail upon arriving in the city, Bays said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 

Dish provider offers free service 
Associated Press 
DENVER -The nation's No. 2 satellite television provider wants to dish out free service to any town will­ing to rename itself "Dish." 
EchoStar Communications Corp., which operates the Dish Network, said Tuesday it will provide 10 years' worth of free satellite televi­sion service for every house­hold in a U.S. town that legally makes the change. 
The service will include a receiver, standard installa­tion and a programming 

package for every household. In exchange, the municipali­ty must change its name per­manently, including on build­ings and signs. 
The service would cost about $4 million for 1,000 households, the nation's No. 2 satellite television provider estimated. Interested cities have until Nov. 1 to submit a proposal. 
"It's an exciting concept and we hope it will become a buzz of any town," EchoStar spokesman Mark Cicero said. 
The promotion comes on the heels of EchoStar's 
newest advertising campaign and a contest that will allow the winner to name EchoStar's next satellite. 
expressing enthusiasm for an upcoming forum on the subject

Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
A commitment to excellence should pervade everything we do." 
Along with establishing a par­ticular mindset, Jenkins has been developing specific goals for his term. Although he said his Sept. 23 inaugural address and Oct. 11 faculty address would further articulate his plans, he said his general thoughts on the future of the University under his leadership should not be terribly surpris­ing. 
"I don't think Notre Dame needs a radically new direc­tion," Jenkins said. "I think it needs an understanding it has a distinctive role to play in American education, and it's got to realize that and play it in the best possible way." 
In order to progress and play its role, Notre Dame must focus on undergraduate research, elevated standards for fac­
moderated  by  former  NBC  
Nightly  News  anchor  Tom  
Brokaw.  

"We're the major university in this country that has a religious character that is among the top 20 universities or so," Jenkins said. "And we can take that on." 
For now, however, the new president often finds himself tied up in meetings, citing time management as his biggest challenge. 
"It's been very busy," Jenkins said. "With the start of the school year there's an enor­mous number of meetings to go to, groups to meet." 
Luckily for Jenkins, Hilary Crnkovich, vice president for public affairs and communica­tion, and Father James McDonald, senior executive assistant and counselor to the president, are busily planning his inauguration. He expressed excitement for the two-day event, which will begin Sept. 22 and be attended by Jenkins' extended family 
ulty and a greater coming from
"So far, 
promotion and Omaha, Neb. understanding of so good." "I hope it's a diversity, Jenkins time not to cele­said. brate John
Father John Jenkins
"[Diversity] is an Jenkins, but to
University president 
issue I think we celebrate Notre made progress on Dame -to cele­and need to con-brate this won­tinue to make derful faculty, stu­progress on," Jenkins said. "I dents, alumni and its great think that involves the faculty potential for the future," increasing the number of Jenkins said. "And I hope our women, and across the visitors come and walk away University to increase diversity just thinking, 'What a great and reflect on diversity so that place."' we can understand that and get And how does he feel about the greatest value from the his term as it approaches the diversity that is present at two-month mark? Notre Dame." "So far, so good," Jenkins said 
Jenkins also said he would with a smile. like Notre Dame to become "the world center for reflection" on Contact Maddie Hanna at issues such as religious conflict, mhannal@nd.edu 

Get Involved in 
NationalAnytime Minutes! 


Irish Athletics! 
Only$2995amonth! 

Nationwide Long Distance Included
The Sports Information Office is 
Unlimited CALL ME'" Minutes Included No Roaming Charges 
250 
looking for student assistants for the 2004-05 school year. Any stu­
BOO Only$3995amonth! 
Nationwide Long Distance Included
dent interested in becoming active 
Unlimited CALL ME'" Minutes Included Unlimited Mobile-to-Mobile Minutes
in Irish athletics should come to an 
No Roaming Charges 

informational meeting on Tuesday, 
Add Unlimited Ni(JH'& Weekend Minutes starting at 7pm Only $5.95/mo. 
. . ..........,,;.;.;:;.;;:;r:-~:::-~;;:;.,~~;:~~;,:;,;:-;;:;,~~x=::~:>;::;.. :.;;;:·:=::<= ·:. ··:o·.-::.:,._.,,,,,,$::C:'k'•~--... . 
MISHAWAKA SOUTH BEND 514 W. McKinley 117 North Main 4615 Miami Road Corner McKinley 1 blk. south of Colfax Miami & Ireland. 
Aug. 23 at 7:30 p.m. in the Sports 
Information Office, (Joyce Center, 
&Grape 574.288.9450 574.299.2860 
~US. Cellular. 
574.252.5820 
AUTHORIZED AGENT
4401 Western Ave. Inside Martin's ~PREMIER
second floor inside Gate 2). For 
* LOCATIONS"


574.287.9628
more information, call Bernie 
•mtefvalld wilh ~NO-year consumer smV:ce agmemants. AI! 3ervfm agreerr:ents subtm:t :.o earty termination tea. Credit appro\'a! required. Activation iee $30. Unlim;tthl Gal! Me Mitltites are only available mthe lroli calltng mea and Jre nat OOdocted !!OITi pad~~ri minums. Unlin~ted local MobiltHC1·Mobile rate applies to c-.alls you make Of I"BI)3ive in yollr 1'V1o!Jile-to·Mobile Ca::mg Area (see b:cd:-ure for details). Nights an.j Weekends. are
Cafarelli at 1-7516. 
'"'''able in t11e lor.al calling area lor $& S5 PI'' montl1 for bcrh tile local a'1d Nanonal Plan. Unlimire; N1ght &Wee<er~ Min•tes \~lid M.f 7r.m to 5:f,'lam and all r.ay Saturday and Surma-; Night &'Nee.l<llnd Mimnes are ,;va!labte in loca! calling area only. l.0111l cal::ng 811313 differs fmm 1Bt1icnal r.al!ing area. Sae amp and ~ate sheet tor detai:s. Promotional rate plan available to r:€W and e>:istir:g CIJS!Dmers eligib:e for rww-: p1ur.-~)tion Prornctlonal phom~ subject 1.0 ctmnge and includes af.":SI"l mail-in rebate. Offer may expire 1f y'Ou change your caiiing plun. Customer is respons1bie for nil sa!~s taxes. Other rP.strdi:ms muy apply. Sw stme for detciis.l irnlte<J time olter. Roaming d!(!rgus. fees, 5Urchmges ar1d 1alC.I~ may i.lpply. !nc!udrng at-m.le:al and Other ~Jgulmmv fee chame of$ 96. @2005 U.S CeHu:ar Ct.:rporation 
THE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Wednesday, August 24, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 1o,st9.ssr -so.3t

}ones ,, 
up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,447 180 1~1 1,702,333,520 
AMfX 1.415.58 +12.73 NASDAQ 2,137.25 +4.16 NYSE. 7,453.78 -32.76 S&PSOO I ,217.59 +4.14 NIKK£l(Tol<yo) 12,454.52 -18.41 
FTSE. IOO(London) 5,300.20 -UL20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ) -0.28 -0.1 I 38.73 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0:15 -0.04 26.87 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +0.07 +0.07 17.76 INTEL CORP (INTC) -0.34 -0.34 25.72 BEACON POWER CORP (BCON)+0.59 +0.59 4.74 
Treasuries 
30-YEAR BOND -0.47 -0.21 44.05 I0-YEAR NOTE -0.76 -0.32 41.87 5-YEAR NOTE -0.64 -0.26 40.49 3-MONTH BILL +0.53 +0.18 34.40 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.06 65.71 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) + 1.30 444.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -0.45 83.45 
Excha Rates 
YEN I I 0.2500 EURO 0.8195 POUND 0.5559 CANADIAN$ 1.1997 

IN BRIEF 
Oil firm to acquire major producer 
BI~I.IINC-China's biggest state-owned oil firm has rnached an agreement to buy a major oil producer in nnighboring Kazakhstan for $4.2 billion -avictory in Beijing's campaign to secure foreign energy supplies for its booming economy. 
Tlw acquisition of PetroKazakhstan Inc., a Canada-based company, by a unit of China National Petroleum Corp., comes just three Wlleks after Hong Kong-based CNOOC Ltd. dropped its bid for Unocal Corp. following opposition from U.S. politicians. 
Thn deal. which still requires the approval of' PetroKazakhstan's shareholders, would be tlw biggnst acquisition ynt in a string of Chinnsn corporate takeovers overseas. 
CNPC International Ltd. agreed to pay $55 per share -a 21 percent premium over PntroKazakhstan's closing stock price on Friday. Shares of PetroKazakhstan climbed $X.35, or 1X percent, to close at $53.75 Monday on the New York Stock Exchange. Tho stock's strongest level of the day was $54.52, well above its previous 52-week high of $46.92. 

Stocks fall as traders wait for data 
NEW YOHK -Stocks fell Tuesday as tradors waited for data on existing home sales and oil prices rose again. 
Wall Street has been closely watching homo sales, worried that the housing boom is nearing its end. The National Association of Hnaltors was expected to report later in the session that July existing home sales fell slightly compared to June. Jobs in the con­struction and at home improvement retailers would be affected by a contraction and con­surnnr spending could take a hit if home prices decline, since a raft of home equity loans have put cash in eonsumers' pockets. 
Traders also worried as oil prices rose slightly, feeding concern that higher gasoline pricos are eurbing consumer spending. On Saturday, Wai-Mart Stores Inc., the world's largest retailers, said its third-quarter results would miss analysts' expectations duo to rising oil prices. A barrel of light crude WJLS quoted at $66.05, up 40 eents, in eloctronic pn~-market trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 



Government proposes new fuel standards 
Rules would coerce manufacturers to produce more vehicles with better gas rnileage 
Associated Press 
WASIIJN(;'J'ON -With gas priees continuing to rise, the Bush administra­tion on Tuesday proposed new rules to compel auto manufacturors to make pickup trucks, minivans and some sport utility vehicles morn fuel effi­eient. l~nvironmentalists said the plan would do lit­tle to wean the nation from its dnpendenco on foreign oil. 
The proposal would require the auto industry to raise standards for most vehicles other than ears beginning in 2008. All automakers would have to comply with the new system by 2011. 
"This is a plan that will save gas and result in less pain at tlw pump for motorists without saerifie­ing safety," Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta said. 

Mineta, speaking at news conferences in Atlanta and Los Angeles, said the program was expected to save about 10 billion gallons of gasoline over the life of vehicles built from 2008 through 2011. The U.S. currently consumes about 140 bil­lion gallons of gasoline per year, according to cars and light trucks, a environment." ers' entire fleet of light Energy Department statis­vehicle category that John D. Graham, direc­trucks. tics. includes pickups, minvans tor of the Office of The new system would 
But the plan would not and SUVs, account for Management and Budget's divide light trucks into six apply to the largest SUVs, about 40 percent of the oftice of information and categories based on size. such as the Hummer l-12. nation's oil use. "At a time regulatory affairs, coun­Smaller vehicles would Passenger cars, already when Americans are pay­tered that the plan was have to get better gas required to maintain an ing record prices for gas, projected to save more mileage than larger average of 27.5 miles per the Bush administration fuel than any previous trucks. gallon, also would not be has sided with its cronies rulemaking in the history Automakers could opt to covered by the changes. in the auto industry and of the light-truck CAFE comply with the old sys­
Environmental advo­rejected real solutions," program. tem through 2010 or to cates panned the said Dan Becker, director Under the current sys­meet the standards in the approach, saying it failed of the Sierra Club's global tem, autornakers must six categories. to go far enough to reduce warming program. maintain an average of 21 If they stayed with the the nation's dependence Sen. John Kerry, D­mpg for light trucks and old system, they would on imported oil while cre­Mass., called it "backward will have to meet 22.2 have to meet a 22.5 mpg ating new loopholes that looking" and "another lost mpg for the 2007 model average by 2008, 23.1 would weaken the opportunity to help our year. It represents an mpg in 2009 and 23.5 requirements. Passenger security, economy and average of manufactur-mpg by 2010. 

GE and Rolls-Royce win contract for jet engine 
• 

Associated Press really the program to be in in the "This is going to be the mainstay 
future." of our military engine business 
EVENDALE, Ohio -A joint ven­GE was named the majority part­going forward," said GE's Jean ture between General Electric Co. ner in a 60-40 joint venture with Lydon-Rodgers, program director of and Holls-Hoyce has won a $2.47 British engine-maker Rolls-Royce. the new F136 engine, which would billion contract to develop an The deal was announced late be installed in the F-35 plane. engine for the military's next-gen­Monday by the Department of Bethesda, Md.-based Loekheed eration stealth jet fighter. Defense under a Navy program that Martin has already produced a pro­
The contract is the largest mili­is administering development of the totype of the plane, expected to cost tary developmental contract in Lockheed Martin F-35, known as between $28 million and $40 mil­about 20 years for Fairfield, Conn.­the Joint Strike Fighter. lion apiece. based GE's jet-engine division, GE The jet will be powered with Pratt The first planes are expectl~d to Aircraft Engines, which is based in & Whitney engines until 2012. After go into U.S. service in two years this Cincinnati suburb and employs that, GE Aircraft Engines and Holls using the Pratt & Whitney engine. about 6,800. will compete with Pratt & Whitney GE Aircraft Engines is expected 
Under the contract, Holls-Royce's for engine placement on the F-35. to earn $B.3 billion in revenue this Indianapolis operations will share The United States and foreign air· year, with about $3.S billion, or in about $500 million of the work forces will select either the Pratt & 2S.6 percent, coming from military on the engine, ensuring several Whitney engine or the GE/Holls contracts. more years of' employment for engine as they order individual Shares of General Eleetric Co. about 100 specialty engineers hired batches ofF-35s. rose 12 cents, or 0.35 percent, to in the past year to ramp up the About 6,000 F-35s may be built $34.09 in after-hours trading on project. over 30 years, GE said. Lockheed the New York Stock .Exchange. 
"We're excited. This is a big Martin is designing the plane to Its shares have traded betwe11n deal," said Dennis Jarvi, president replace several aircraft including $32.31 and $37.75 over the past 52 of Defense North America. "This is the F-16 and F/A-18. weeks. 
page 8 Wednesday, August 24, 2005 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
which for some may create ten­was encouraged but not mer camp ends and college can become an invisible entity sion and discomfort for more required by the University. starts." at the University," Rakoczy


Gender 

shy people and possibly "There were groups of Lewis Fellow Keenan freshman said. "I hope that the GRC can 
continued from page 1 
newest members of our com­munity, but we always have to be aware of how all men and women are treated at the University," Firth said. "There is always room to grow in terms of being a place that really wel­comes people, and there is always room to grow in terms of our attitudes." 
Changing the tone 
After a series of focus groups held last spring, student gov­ernment officials found some orientation events to be so damaging to campus gender relations that it labeled them "juvenile and hypersexualized" in its April report to the University's Board of Trustees. 
Student body president Dave Baron, former president Adam Istvan and former vice presi­dent Karla Bell told the trustees that activities requiring male and female freshmen to pair off should be eliminated and replaced with events between many students of the same sex. 
"I received a lot of feedback [from the focus groups] that students felt uncomfortable with what they labeled as 'cou­pling' that happened during freshman orientation week­end," said student body vice president Lizzi Shappell. 
Over the summer, Baron said, Freshman Orientation commis­sioners worked with adminis­trators and members of student government to create activities promoting healthier gender relations, which some dorms implemented last weekend. 
In addition to increasing same-sex interhall events, some dorms incorporated icebreakers that paired freshmen by birth­days and hometowns to reduce awkwardness. Side activities, like inflatable games, were also set up to distract those who felt uncomfortable 1 with forced interaction. 
"At the end of my Frosh-0, I felt like I had met all the girls in the world. but didn't know any guys in my own dorm," said Jonathon Floyd, a sophomore Alumni Orientation Commissioner. "I think that the way the events take place puts much more pressure on meet­ing the opposite sex rather than people in your own dorm, unhealthy gender relations." girls and Farley girls standing 

Across South Quad, Howard around separately," she said. Hall tried this year to branch "It's a good idea in theory, but away from the stereotype of there are 128 Lewis freshmen orientation activities between and they don't even know each one women's dorm and one other's names yet. They don't men's dorm, instead holding feel as obligated to reach out to activities with neighboring other girls. They want to meet women's dorms Pangborn and boys." Lyons, sophomore orientation O'Hara said that if her dorm staff member Pia Mauro said. were to hold a similar event in 
"We want to facilitate activi­the future, she would have rec­
ties  that  ommended that  
encourage girls  students drop the  
to  approach  dorm shirts that  
guys and vice  "Obviously on  broadcast their  
versa," Mauro said, "but not to force them into  Tuesday summer camp ends and  hall affiliation and often become an immediate  
relationships."  college starts. ,,  source of division.  
Pasquerilla  "I would have  
West Sister  rector Sue  Scott McBride  had them wear normal clothes so  
Bruno said she  Keenan freshman  girls would have  
supports  the  just looked  for  
inclusion  of  other girls who  
same-sex inter- looked nice and  

hall events in Frosh-0 weekend. talked to them," she said. 

"I think it's healthy," she said. Same-sex interhall events "We've always wanted to have might be more successful if a good relationship with our they were not just confined to neighbor [Pasquerilla East] ... orientation weekend, said We can have friendly bantering Farley rector Sister Carrine and allegiance to our own Etheridge. dorm, but we need to be able to "I think it's important to meet interact in a respectful, friendly other girls on [North] Quad," manner." she said. "[But] Frosh-0 is so 
In her years at Notre Dame, compressed, so I think the key Bruno said she has seen great is planting seeds and doing fol­efforts made to encourage bal­low up. I would like to see our anced interaction between the freshmen do follow-up a few sexes. months later with girls from 
"In terms of Frosh-0, they've [Breen-Phillips] and done a tremendous job of mak­Cavanaugh." ing it more comfortable," she And while several freshmen said. sensed Orientation Weekend 
Also changed this year was was setting an unhealthy tone, the annual "From Football to others said they recognized its Finals" presentation, designed artificial constructs wouldn't to inform first-year students last long. about how to stay safe at Notre "This feels like summer Dame. camp," said Keenan freshman 
Scott McBride. "We go around A work in progress marching, chanting, shouting 
But even with this year's 'We love you' to girls' dorms. adjustments, Frosh-0 remains a "Obviously on Tuesday sum-work in progress, and not everyone agrees that the cur­rent orientation format is 
flawed. While support exists for same-sex interhall activities, not all such events went 

Lance Ladendorf denied that 
the weekend focuses too much 
on meeting the opposite sex. 

"Right now there are 90­something [freshman] guys in my dorm," he said. "There are no [fraternities] at ND, so Keenan is it for me. You meet maybe three girls at an activity, · and you need to get to know guys, too. I think it's great to move into our dorm with fresh­men and a few sophomores. We're all a little nervous and going into it together." 
Stanford rector Father Tom 
Gaughan said he impresses 
upon his freshmen that regard­
less of the social activity on the 
Frosh-0 slate, they should not 
feel pressured to participate. 
"It's possible that a guy has 
had a painful separation from 
his girlfriend and does not feel 
like running around and meet­
ing girls on Frosh-0 weekend," 
Gaughan said. "It is most 
important to have activities that 
people find fun, comfortable, 
welcoming. The problem comes 
when people are forced or pres­
sured into anything." 

·seeing through the •gender lens' 
Notre Dame recognizes that 
setting a positive gender rela­
tions tone does not stop with 
Frosh-0, said Heather Rakoczy, 
director of the University's 
Gender Relations Center (GRC). 
Though a Women's Resource 
Center has been present on 
campus since 1993, the cre­
ation of the GRC was 
announced March 1, 2004. 
Founded to create a healthier 
climate for women and men at 
the University, the center is 
striving to take on a more 
active role in improving how 
gender functions at Notre 
Dame, Rakoczy said. 
"When a gender lens is miss­
ing from the conversation, gen­
der relations and gender issues begin collaborating with other University departments to pro­vide that gender lens. 
"If that happens, we might begin addressing how gender relations operates within [Freshman Orientation] and in so many other contexts on cam­pus wherein it may have gone unaddressed in explicit ways as well." 
Etheridge agreed Frosh-0 is not the only culprit for negative gender relations at Notre Dame. 
"I think it's funny to see kids packed into a dorm room with the lights off in a haze of alco­hol and then to hear them com­plain about how bad gender relations are," she said, adding students might form better relationships once the school year starts if they try to m·eet people through clubs and activ­ities instead. 
Still, student government offi­cials are confident the changes to Freshman Orientation will have a positive effect on overall gender relations at Notre Dame. 
"I cannot speak for the University as a whole, but I feel that setting the foundation for long-lasting healthy relation­ships between and within the genders is paramount during Frosh-0," Wishon said. 
Firth praised students for tak­ing on a leading role in bringing about this year's changes. 
"These were positive first steps and certainly steps for­ward," she said. "I think our goals are to welcome people; and to welcome them into a community that is comfortable with dialogue and welcomes all equally and has healthy atti­tudes about gender." 
Contact Kate Antonacci and Karen Langley at kantonac@nd.edu and klanglel@nd.edu 
smoothly last weekend. "Saturday night our event 

Need a job this fall? with Farley didn't go very well," said sophomore Megan O'Hara, a Campus Orientation Commissioner for Lewis Hall, of a same-sex interhall event that 
The Development Phone Centeris hiring! 

20-25 STUDENT CALLER POSITIONS AVAILABLE 
WE'LL WORK AROUND YOUR SCHEDULE, 1 SO YOU CAN WORK FOR US. 

Call Qlumni. parents and friends on behaff of Notre Dame's AnnuaiFund. 
• 
NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY 

• 
GREAT ENVIRONMENT 

• 
EVENING HOURS 

• 
PAID TRAINING 

• 
MERIT PAY INCREASES 



FULL•TIME & PART-TIME POSITIONS 
AS ONE OF' THE WORLD'S LEADING PROVIDERS OF EMERGING IT PRODUCTS AND INNOVATIVE LOGISTIC SERVICES, TECH DATA MAKES IT EASY FOR YOU TO GET TO WORK·AND HIT THE BOOKS·WlTH SMART SCI'iEDULES THAT FIT YOUR NEEDS, JOIN US NOW IN OUR 400,000+ SQUAR£ FOOT STATE·OF-Ht£-ARf DISTRIBUTION CENTER IN SOUTH BEND IN ON£ OF THE FOLLOWING CAREER OPPORTUNITIES: 
When: 
Where: Why: 

OPEN HOUSE 
Today, Wed., Aug 24'h 
10:00 am to 4:00 pm 
Third Floor, Grace Hall 
For information, applications, and to meet us 
Questions? Call "The Kellys"-Kelly McMahon or Julia Kelly at 631-3152.
PART-TIME DISTRIBUTION CENTER ASSOCIATES PA.RT·TIME DAY AND EVENING POSITIONS AVP.1l.ABLE IN OU~ PICKiNG. PI\CK!NG AND RECEIVING AREAS. REQUIREMENTS INCLUDE A 1-UGii SC/100L DIPLOMA OR GEO. AND TtiE ABILITY TO UrT UP TO 50 LBS. WAREHOUSE. O:P(RIENC£ PREfERRW. NEW PAY RATE:S STAR11NG Ar OVER $10/liOUR BAS£0 ON SKILLS AND EXf'EfiiENCa 
FULL-TIME DISTRIBUTION CENTER ASSOCIATES FULl-TIMt POSITIONS l!.Rf. AVAILII.BLF. IN OUR PICKING, PA.CKING AND RECEIVING ARF.AS. RfQUIRf.MEtHS INCLUDE A HIGH SCHOOL DIPl.OMo\ OR Gf.D AND THF. .-,BI!.ITY TO LIFT UP !0 50 LBS. WAREHOUSE EY.P£RI£NCE ?REFERRED. NEW P.\Y RATfS STARTING AT OVER $tO/HOUR BASED ON SKIUS AND £XPCR/£HCE PLUS SHifT DIFfERENTIAL VARIETY or SHIFTS AVAILABLE! 

Make money, win prizes, 
WE OFf"ER AN EXCEUENT COMPENSATIO!ol ANO Bf.NEF!TS PACKAGE. ?LEASE APFLY ONLINE AT WWW.TECHDATA.COM OR Filt OUT 



and build your resume.
AN .~PPl1CATlON IN PE".RSON. B£WIEF.N 8:30.~M AN.O SPM AT 7701 VOROEN COURT, SOUTH BENO, IN 46628 (OFF 80 .<NO OUV£ ROAD I. NO PHONE CA.LLS PLEAS£. 
PRE•EMPlO\'r.f.ENT DRUG TE5TING AND.!.. CLEAN CR!MirtAl REC.ORD fcEOUIREO. 


Apply Today! 
EOE.Mif/DN. 
Notre Dame 
ANNUAL FUND 


Wednesday, August 24, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 9 


Provost 
continued from page 1 
rangn from appointing and promoting faculty to sotting tho budgets f'or acadnmic dopartrnonts, colleges and instit.utns," Associate Provost Dnnnis Jacobs said. 
Additionally, Burish must nnsurn "the budgeting proenss supports the academic mission and priorities of' the Univnrsity," Jacobs said. 
Though Burish is familiar with Notro Dame's academie mission. he may ntH~d time to got roacquaintnd with tho Univorsity. 
"Jio willlllwd to tako time to lt~arn lwhatl Nl> is today," said Father .Jamns Mel>onald, snn­ior nxneutivn assistant and counselor to the prosidenl. "As hn himself' says of"lnn, tho Notro l>anw lw lnfl as a senior in I1J72 is not the Notrn Damn of' 200!"1. 
"But he will hit the ground running, f'or lw has experienco as a provost and as a president of' a distinguishml univorsity." 
A soareh eommilltH~ com­prised of' five faculty mnmbers and a studont was eloeted by Aeadnmk Council last spring and chaired by Jenkins over tho stmwwr to id onti(y promis­ing candidates, Jaeobs said. All intnrviews and deliborations worn conduetod in striet confi­de nee. Notre Dame, Burish, a native 
Burish said, after being iden­of Peshtigo, Wise., received titiod by the committee, that he master's and doetoral degrees was initially drawn to the posi­in psychology and clinical psy­tion bHcause of' the University's chology from the University of Catholic affiliation -the same Kansas in 1975 and 1976, characteristic that drew him to aecording to the press release. tho school as an undergradu­Jenkins said Burish's connec­ato over 30 years ago. tion to Notre Dame makes him 
"The challenge of' wrapping a great asset. together our faith-based her­"l-Ie's a Notre Dame graduate itage while further strengthen­whose son graduated from ing our academic exeellenee is Notre Dame last May," Jenkins a rare opportunity and, for me, said. "Ile understands Notre a special dream," Burish said Dame, he's deeply committed in a University press release to Notre Dame and its mission, announcing his appointment. so he brings a sense of that "I did not special eharac­antieipate this tcr of the
"He will need to take
opportunity or University, and seek it but am the time to learn [what] really is eoming excited by it for that rea­
ND is today. " 
and am grate­son." ful for it." T h o u g h 
Jenkins said Father James McDonald Burish will not that Burish, a executive assistant and be on campus elinical psy­until after
counselor to the president
ehology schol­ar. brings extensive experience to Notre Dame, after serving as presi­dent at Washington and Lee and as provost at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tenn. 
"In both of these roles, Dr. Burish excelled as a strategic leader," Jacobs said. "He has great vision for setting an ambitious aeademie agenda that builds on the distinctive charaeteristics of the institu­tion." 
In addition to his studies at 
• Castle'Point
~j I A p A A T fV'I E N T s 
18011 Cleveland Road • South B~nd. Indiana 46637 
Curner or Cleveland and Ironwood Road Phone (!i74) 272-8110 • Toll Free (888) 642-6110 www.cppj.com 

• 
/lrtNiTitf>SS (~enlf-.•.r 

• 
J-1-ec Tanning Hed 

• 
R(JCCfi.I.Ei"L Ball 

• 
Judoor/0JIIdoor Tennis & Basketball 


• 
Stvilnrn.tng 

• 
Exe,-cise Roorn 


• Whirlpool & Sauna 
• Shor1"-T~rm Leasing Options 
~-­
, .Welc:oan.e To Your Castle.... '· Close to Everything • . , . F;_-r •·row:n Ordlina.-y ! 
. -. ­

.. 1-:Z DEDROOMS/2 BEDROOMS Wmi f.OFT & PENS 

• MONTHLY EXECUTIVE SUJTES 
Labor Day, 
administrators in the provost's office expressed excitement about his appointment. 
"I am looking forward to working with Dr. Burish," said Assistant Provost Joy Vann­llamilton. "In my brief interac­tions with him, I have found him easy to engage and to have a wonderful sense of humor, whieh is vital. 
"Most importantly, he asks the right questions and listens, which has and will lend to his understanding of the chal­lenges and opportunities for the University." 
Upon his arrival, Burish will meet with campus leaders to learn more about the success­es, opportunities and chal­lenges before him, Jaeobs said. 
"Although it is premature to identify the specifie short-term goals of the provost's office, we in the provost's office are working in partnership with the academic units to imple­ment the goals of the Strategic Plan approved by the Board of Trustees," Jaeobs said. 
Burish, who has served as the chair of the American Cancer Society's national board of directors sinee 2004, sueeeeded Hateh, who notified the University in January that he would be leaving Notre Dame to become president of Wake Forest University . 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 


Tickets 
continued from page 1 
first piek at seating. 
The lottery number distri­bution is organized by class with eaeh year receiving their numbers at a different table, a mueh less hectic process now that students 
are  familiar  
with  the  sys­ 
tem,  Gagnon  

both in the lottery number and the ticket distribution," Hanifin said. 
Gagnon said the lottery system is "a thousand times better" than the former sys­tem. 
"You had people out in all kinds of' weathnr for very long periods of time on eon­crete near a highway," he said. "!With the lottery sys­tem I. nobody waits in lilw for more than an 
said. hour at most.
"It goes pretty
"There is no And if you plan
smoothly."
one left on it better. your eampus who is wait is more like even fami.Jiar Cappy Gagnon 30 minutes." with the old coordinator of stadium When the sys­
system. It goes tem was first
personnel
pretty smooth­ly." he said. "People· have realized that getting there early in the day is not an advantage. If you get there at 2 p.m. instead of 9 a.m., you eould still get the starting lottery number." 
Gagnon said that though freshmen, graduate students, law students and MBA stu­dents are new to the system, they generally have the advantage of reading the information more closely and ehecking the Web site. 
"Freshmen  are  a  little  
more  obedient,"  Gagnon  
said.  

As students reaeh the sta­dium to collect their book­lets. as seniors did Tuesday, tickets are distributed in order of lottery numbers that ate present. Seating begins with the lowest row number of one seetion, proceeds up to the top and then goes through the next section 
implemented, 
Gagnon said 

thet·e were often incidents in which students wanting to sit together, in confusion, got lottery num­bers that were not in sequen­tial order. In such a circum­stance, Gagnon would aver­age their numbers, though he said sueh an exeoption did not happen Tuesday. 
Some students deeided to bypass the wait altogether. 
"Wo came late !two and a half hours af'ter the start time] because we figured there'd be long lines earlier." said senior Mariela Suarez. "It went pretty smoothly. The whole thing took about 10 minutes." 
While the lottery system seems to bn problem-fren thus far, there has been dis­cussion of moving to an online ticketing program, which is available for non­students. 
"We've been 
working with 

top  to  bot­ "The whole thing look  the  [Office  of  
tom. Gagnon  about 1 o minutes. "  the I Hegistrar, HcsLif'e, and  
predicted  OIT  to  make  
that the next  Marlela Suarez  sure we're giv­ 
few  days,  senior  ing the matter  

when jun­iors, sopho­mores and freshmen travel to the stadi­um to colleet their booklets, will go well. 
Senior Sean Hanifin praised the new lottery sys­tem, commending especially the decision to separate the classes when distributing the lottery numbers. 
"Time strueture has worked to their advantage 
its due dili­gence," Berlo said. "It eould 

happen in the next eouple of years." Gagnon pointed IJaJt thn 
pros and  cons of an  online  
system.  
"There  are  all  kinds  of  

advantages for students. They wouldn't have to go wait in any line; they would save going to the stadium on either day. It would be done for the returning students in spring or summer," he said. "Someone might say that a disadvantago would be the friends you have in May are not the friends you have in September, if you were to break up with your boyfriend over the summer or get a new roommate in the fall." 
However tickets are aequirnd. llanfin said stu­dents seem to be happy with any scat. 
"When it comes down to it, in Notre Dame Stadium, there's not a bad seat in the house," Ilanilin said. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffyJ@nd.edu 


7~dt~ 
"Area's largest seledionl'' 
~~e ~ale ~le 

Only one mile from Campus! East Bank Emponum Restaurant Building 121 S. Niles @Jefferson, downtOVI'Il South Bend (574) 232-8488 +Hours: Mon.-Sat. 10 • 6 
page 10 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, August 24, 2005 
The Career Center 
Presents: 
ti'11VERSfTY 01: NOTRE DAME 

Senior "Kick-Off" Stepan Center 
Thursday, August 25th, 2005 
Spons<)recl by: 


Job search strategies 
{l]) Meet career counselors representing you.r major ll!l Learn about upcoming workshops and events liD Mock interview sign-ups 
.. 

Required meeting fo·r all Seniors who will interview for jobs and internships in 2005-06. 
Attendance and Student I.D. are required 
Business Majors 5:00-5:30 p.m. @ Stepan Center 
EngineeringI Science Majors 
6:00 -6:30 p.m. @Stepan Center 
Arts 8t Letters Majors 
7:00 -7:30 p.m. @ Stepan Center 
Each session will provide Information specific to the designated college. If, however, you are unable to attend your college-specific session, please attend one ofthe others.. Call The Career Center with any questions. 
To view other upcoming Career Center workshops and events, go to the Career Center web site, click on ~undergraduates', 'Events and Workshops". 
Career Center Phone: 631~5200 Website: http://careercenter.nd.edu AIM: ndcareercenter 


Wednesday, August 24, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 11 

Land giveaw-ays draw-·new-comers 

Researchers clain1 
Free plots in the heartland spark a traditional pattern ofhomesteading 

fetuses feel no pain 
Associated Press 
HLSWOHTll, Kan. -Horn in the hnartland, the prairie homestnading tradition lives again. 
Land -that coveted, crowd­ed, pricey possession in Arnnriea's hot spots -can be had thesn days for nothing in a growing number of Grnat Plains communities. 

Sagging populations prompt­ed nconomic planners to offer juicy incentives inspired by the land giveaways to settlers in the mid-to late 1XOOs. And so, in thn middle of Kansas, Maribel 
"I found a place
.Juarez has n~dis­homes they saw covnrnd the town exactly like my when they tooled 
o:f her El around town.
hometown and it's 
Salvadoran child­So far. 18 fami­
in America. " 
hood. lies in two years 

In Ellsworth, have settled here just as in El Maribel Juarez that way and taken Salvador's advantage of the
heartland newcomer 

Atiquizaya in thn old days, church lwlls chime. Frnight trains dat­ter and whistln day and night. Hveryone knows everyone else -and their business -and there's no lighting with traf'lic. 
"I found a place exactly like my hometown and it's in America." Juarnz says with a broad smile. "To us, this is our prom!snd lan.~I. Wn don't nnod anythrng nlsn. 
l.urnd by an oiTnr of free property, Juarez, 44, and her husband. Madecadel. 46, came to Kansas from Vallejo. Calif., two months ago. They went from an apartnwnt wlwre they fnan~d h~tting tlwir daughter out on lwr bicydo to a nearly now home with a big lawn, oak floors and a sense of utter safe­ty. 
Morn than a dozfm communi­
ro 
The 
Rolling

Stonesl 

oliO opPfttlng Homon 5 
Wtdnesday, fiagust 31, 2005 
Cotntrkq Pork • Homt of tbt Dttroll Tlgm 
Free ticket for 9·8 Silver Hawks playoff game with every bus trip purchase 
sus aeparts 12:00 noon from Coveleskl stadium Bus Trip Packages on Sale Now at The cove sox Oft"'ce or 5741235·9988 
ties in Kansas and Nebraska are giving away land or plan­ning to do so as a way to staunch population declines and boost local economies. 
Ellsworth's giveaway has had an impact, but not the one its creators expected. Anita Hol'fhines, the economic devel­opment director who is the spark of the program, pictured newcomers snapping up the free lots and building their dream homes. 
Instead, all tho outsiders who have come to size up the prop­erties, in many cases reserving them, ended up buying existing 
second big incen­
tive Ellsworth County offers -a down-pay­ment grant of up to $3,000 for families with children. 
Tho county gflts a tangible benel'it from its investment, beyond the boost of having more people around to shop. Each child who enters a local school attracts $6,000 a year in statn aid. Tho 25 kids who have enrolled from the new families bring $150,000 annually to the education system, enough to pay for several teachers. 
llol'fhines is the first to say places like. Ellsworth are not drive 50 minutes to Salina to get their fix. or make do with mail order or Internet shopping. 
Apart from the Pizza llut and Dairy Queen, this one-stoplight town is untouched by the big shopping and restaurant chains. 
People can choose between two dentists, two law firms and two old-time independent drug stores across the main street from each other. Stores close early, and there's nothing much happening on a Sunday. 
On the other hand, Ellsworth otTers some brick streets, a cap­puccino bar in one of the antique stores, a nine-hole golf course, recreation center, a new medical center, a 24-hour gas station and convenience store, and an outdoor swimming pool with a slide. 
The county treasurer's office, which used to close for lunch, stays open now, thanks to a campaign pledge by the previ­
ous occupant of the office to end 

the study "They have literally hasn't been
the noon break. In fad, life in 

appearing in stuck their hands in any.
general hero "is pretty much in 

Wednesday's The measure
the hornet's nest." 
the open," says Hol'fhines. 

Journal of the pending in
"You can't hide," she said. "If 

Ameriean Congress 
you come to give to the commu­

Medical Dr. Kanwaljeet Anand would aiTect 
nity, you will be recei~e~. If you 
about I X,OOO

Association. fetal pain researcher
come to take, you won t. 
The town now has 10 free lots available, each about one-third of an acre, and four morn else­where in the county. Local fami­lies are eligible for the free lots, and two have built on them, but the down-payment aid is for newcomers only. 
Amy Eck, 31, came from 
Phillipsburg 130 
mih~s away to take 
for everyone. The "If I want sushi, a job as managing 
"They have literally stuek 
one grocery store editor of the local
I'm not going to 
their hands into a hornet's
has a modest weekly, the 
nest," said Dr. Kanwaljeet
selection and find it here." Ellsworth County 
Anand, a fetal pain
uncompetitive Independent. She 
researcher at th.e University
priees. and her husband
Anita Hoffhlnes 
of Arkansas fo_r Medical
Fancy clothes realized it would
economic 
Sciences, who believes fetus­
are not to be take too long to 
es as young as 20 weeks old
development director 
found. "I drive 40 build a new home 
miles to get fresh salmon." she said. "If I want sushi. I'm not going to lind it here." 
One of the most common questions she gets from prospective settlers is where the nearest Wai-Mart is located. "Some pnople arn just addicted to W1ti-Mart," she said. They 
on a free lot and it would be an iffy investment anyway. 
"It just wasn't worth it." she said. But her son qualilied the family for the down-payment grant, and she liked the com­munity. "When I send my son to school. he doesn't have to enter a metal detector." 
4 l:.t.tt,'\1 ('i\l·rl;., \~l>· 
W\1• W.Sfl ~" ..;n.~:o~\ You're invited lo come enjoy the cozy atmo~phere ofdowntown 
South Bend's premier yam shop. 
Check out our amazing selection ojjintastic yams. Relax on comfY couches, enjoy a movw and ;;ip a deliczousjlavored Jatte or mocha while you're hutting or crocheting your late:J pro;ect. 
Beginner. Intermediate and Advanced group oqnivate lessons! 
Get started on all those Christmas gifts -only four months left! From scarves, sweaters and socks to leg warmers, felted caps and throws, w·e've got the yam. the kits and imtmctors to make your knitting and crochet dreams a reality! 
The O.C. premiere night at Sit &Knit--Sept. 8th at 7pm CST 
129 S. Michigan St. 574/232-KNIT M·Th 10·7 Fr/Sa 10-6 Su Noon-6 Between LePeep &Quizno Downtown 

Some scientists say younger fetuses show pain by moving away from a stimulus, but that lik~~ly is a reflex action and not an indication that they are actually feeling pain. said UCSF obstetric anesthe­siologist Dr. Mark Hoson, the study's senior author. 
Offering fetal pain relief in the lifth or sixth month, when brains are too immature to feel pain, is misguided and might result in unacceptable health risks to women, the authors said. 
Dr. Nancy Chescheir, chair­man of obstetries and gyne­cology at Vanderbilt University and a board direc­tor at the Society of Maternal-Fetal Medicine, said the report "will help to develop some consensus" on when l"ntusos feel pain. "To date, there 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO -Doctors should not be required to discuss fetal pain with women seek­ing abortions because fetuses likely can't feel pain until late in pregnancy, according to a review critics say hardly set­tles the contentious topic. 
Researchers at the University of California, San Francisco reviewed dozens of studies and medical reports and said the data indicate that fetuses likely are inca­pable of feeling pain until around the seventh month of pregnancy, when they are about 28 weeks old. 
Based on the evidence, dis­cussions of fetal pain for abortions performed before the end of' the second trimester should not be mandato­ry, according to 
U.S. abortions a yPar per­formed in the 

firth month of prngnancy or later, said Douglas Johnson. legislative director of the National Hight to Life Committee. lin said tlw review is slanted. 
Dr. Catherine DeAngelis. JAMA's editor-in-chief. said the dneision to publish the review was not politically motivated. 
JAMA dons not publish "politically motivated seinncn. We publish data-basPd, nvi-· den en-based sci1~ IH~e." sh" said. 
Hosen said researchers "tried to review tho literature in an unbiased fashion. This was a multidiseiplinary ~1ITort by experts on arwstlwsia, neuroanatomy, obst.ntries and neonatal development." 
Wlwn doctors opnrate on fetuses to corrpet dnfocts bnforn birth. general anes­thesia is given to tlw mother primarily to immobiliw tlw fetus and to make the utPrus relax. Anesthesia during fetal surgery increases the moth­er's risks for breathing prob­lems and blending from a relaxed uterus, the researchers said. 
Hosen said thosn risks arn medically acceptable when the goal is to sav11 the fetus but there is not enough evi­dence to show any benp,fit from fetus-directed anesthe­sia during an abortion. 
The review, researchers say, is an attempt to present a comprehensive, objective ropor·t on evidence to inform the debate over fetal pain laws aimed at mak­ing women think twice before getting abortions. 
Critics angrily disputed the findings and claimed the report is biased. 
fen! pain. "This is going to inflame a lot of scientists who are very, very concerned and arc far morn knowledgeabll~ in this area than the authors appear to be. This is not the last word -delinitely not." 
Proposed federal legislation would require doctors to pro­vide fetal pain information to women seeking abortions when fetuses are at least 20 
weeks old, and to offer women fetal anesthesia at that stage of the pregnancy. A handful of states have enact­ed similar measures. 
The review says medical evidence shows that brain structures involved in feeling pain begin forming earlier but likely do not function until around the seventh month, when fetuses are 


Quite frankly, Mallory, Your 19th Birthday deserved last night's fireworks show! 


THE OBSERVER 








IEWPOINT
page 12 Wednesday, August 24, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 

Neither left nor right 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, INotre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR 8USINFSS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPOIITS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MAR.v's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham E~tsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CONTROLLER Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER &GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 
fAX 
(574) 631-6927 ADVERTISING (574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF (574) 631-4542 MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR (574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 News DesK (574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu VIEWPOINT DESK (574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu SPORTS DESK (574) 631-4543 sports.! @nd.edu SCENE DESK (574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK (574) 631-8767 photo@rid.edu SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS (574) 631-8839. 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

POLICIES The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the 
University of Norre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither 
institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on contenr. 
The news is reported as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors, Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Vie\'Vpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include conract information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} .iJ -published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. Asub.scription w The Observer is $lOo-for one a~mic year; $55 for one semester 
The obstrvet is published at! POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address-oom:crions ro: Notre Dame. IN 46556.0779 • Th< Oboerver Pcribdial ~paid at N<>rn! 011Jlle P.O. Box779 and ,.ddit:iomt! mailing offkes. 024: Sooth Dh»ng Hall 
Nottt Dame, lN 46556·0n9 

The Ob~f'VCI" ls .:i. member ofthe Associ:atd Pres5-All reproduction rights are tcstrvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

So what exactly do libertarians believe? 
I've heard this question too many times. I'm going to ignore the inanity of it, in deference to.the truly curious, and attempt to answer it briefly because there is no other 
way -that is, short of writing several volumes of political philosophy, which is something I am not planning on doing. 
Maybe you have heard of libertarian­ism, or maybe you 


have not. It is a Scott Wagner political philosophy that is not new, and has its roots in the Live and Let earliest forms of Live or Die capitalism. The Libertarian Party was only founded with­in the last 35 years, but boasts more members elected to public office than any other third party. 
So ... what exactly do libertarians believe? 
The core principle of libertarianism is simple, and if one wishes to join the Libertarian Party one must sign a pledge to uphold it: the principle of non-aggres­sion. Therein lies the most striking differ­ence between libertarianism and the other political philosophies currently wrestling for power in the United States. 
Non-aggression simply states that your freedom to engage in violence ends where another human being begins, except in cases of self-defense, Thus, your inherent authority extends only to your own borders -the property you own, or your own body -and nowhere else. Authority is an artificial construct that is morally valid if and only if the con­sent of the subordinated is clearly estab­lished. This rule applies to all individuals, corporations and yes -even govern­ments. 
'-It is from this foundation that allliber­tarian positions derive. The government, at any level, is an exercise in authority that is not necessarily intrinsic to its exis­tence. As Murray Rothbard, one of the greatest political thinkers you've never heard of, said, "If you wish to know how libertarians regard the State and any of its acts, simply think of the State as a criminal band, and all of the libertarian attitudes will logically fall into place." 
Unlike Rothbard, however, most liber­tarians are not anarchists. Most are disil­lusioned Republicans or Democrats who have seen the national debt grow, who have watched civil liberties be curtailed, who have seen the machinery of state aggression, who have recognized that the root of oppression is the usurpation of authority and who have had enough. 
Libertarians reject authority that does not rest on the explicit consent of the governed. We believe that neither you nor any politician has a right to our money. We believe that no one has the right to interfere in our private lives, We believe that self-defense is inalienable but that all forms of aggression are immoral. We believe that drug laws, just like immigration laws, have been enacted to create criminals out of peaceful citi­zens. The government's role is not to enforce charity and morality, and we believe that the best way to a better soci­ety is not through more laws, but through fewer. As Tacitus once wrote, "The more corrupt the state, the more numerous the laws." It is true. 
Hence the difficulty in classifying liber­tarians on the left-/right-wing scale. Like the left, we believe that the state has no right to interfere in the personal lives of people. Like the right, we believe that the state has no right to steal from its citi­zens. Libertarians are thus both simulta­neously left and right, and most will say they are neither. 
The bumper sticker on the back of my car states it clearly enough: libertarians are "pro-choice on everything." 
Translated into a contemporary media buzzword, libertarianism is, basically, "tolerance." 
Unfortunately, the left has comman­deered the word "tolerance" and now throws it around carelessly. Tolerance is not about acceptance. It is, simply, toler­ance. You may not like my opinions. You may not like the Vagina Monologues; you may complain and whine and ignore all of these things, but you're going to toler­ate all of them because you have no right to do anything otherwise. You are not freer to decide what is best than anyone else is. 
That is libertarianism, It is based entirely on negative rights, in that people are free from coercion. In opposition are today's big-government socialists and neoconservatives who believe in positive rights: that is, you have the right to a government-funded retirement, the right to a pornography-free society, or any other "right to" that can be invented. Libertarianism is not about what you have a "right to." It is about what you have the right to be "free from." Fundamentally, you do not have the right to coerce anyone, just as you have the right to be free from coercion. 
If ye harm none, do as ye will. 
Hopefully this column will serve as a forum in which I can detail out some lib­ertarian solutions to government-created problems. If you find that the idea of fewer laws, smaller government and freedom of speech, religion and the press appeals to you, keep reading and investi­gate the matter further. It's going to be an interesting year. 
Scott Wagner is a senior biological sci­ences and German major. He is also pres­ident ofthe brand new College Libertarians club. He can be contacted at swagnerl@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Sports 

OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY
Kate Antonacci Bobby Griffin Katie Perry Ken Fowler 
"You need only reflect that one ofthe best 
Sub.•. mit· 1 1···e··yt·t·ar/
Jen Rowling Kyle Cassily What is the best new 
:0 
::·IUJ : u ;: .: :..., : :·t;< ·: 

ways to get yourselfa reputation as a
·:-... : ......:: ................. ··:-·-:-..:::-::-:-::'. ......
Viewpoint Scene 

construction on campus? 
dangerous citizen these days is to go
Alyssa Brauweiler Rama Gottmnukkala about repeating the very phrases which our founding fathers used in the struggle 
Graphics Brian Doxtader 

}or independence. "
to tbe Editor at
Kelly MacDonald Charles Austin Beard
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
historian 
at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Wednesday, August 24, 2005 page 13 
U-WIRE 
Hypocrisy rampant in Gaza Strip policies 
Several wonks ago, Iraqi Prime Minster Ibrahim ai­Jaal'ari 1~alled li>r the United States to begin withdrawing Anwriean fim:e!> from Iraq by as early as 2006. President Bush eorrnetly delleetod the Prime Minister's statement by refusing to set a time table for the American disengage­ment from tim war-torn land as such an action would givn the terrorist<> a David clear eut date to plan an organized Day ollimsivn whnn American presence would be at its weakest. Other more extreme voiens in America and abroad Dartmouth havn ealled for the immndiate removal University of U.S. troops, using words such as The Dartmouth "oeeupiers," "crusaders," "infidels," ete. 
Hegardless of what one might think of thn masons (and mistakes) that brought our nation into Iraq, the fad of the matter is that at this juncture we are the righteous party in this eonflict. This is a much-over­looked fad. The terrorists are ruthless murderers who do not simply attack American and Iraqi military targets, but also haw targdnd crowded markets and shopping eentms without an "occupier" in the vicinity. 
President Bush stands firm with the understanding that Abu Musab ai-Zarqawi and a! Qaeda in Iraq cannot be allownd to dietate the tnrms of American withdrawal and risk the fledgling Iraqi govnrnment falling into their daws. An Amerkan rntnmt from tPrrorism half a world away would givn tlwir ideolO!,'}' a massivn jumpstart and would leave us vulnnrable to tnrrorism in our own backyard. 
Tho President's hard-linfl ideological stance against ter­ror is widely seen as eonsistent towards all terrorist organizations around the globe and is exemplified in his rnsolve to stay the course in Iraq. However, most have overlooked (or turned a blind eye to) the similarities between the American "Global War on Terror" and Israel's own struggle against terrorism. The President's hypothetical resolve to fight terrorism wherever it exists is lost in contradiction and hypocrisy when placed next to · his support of the Israeli withdrawal from Gaza in the wake of years of bombings and Intifada. 
The main issue that President Bush fails to address as he walks his diplomatic tightrope over Israel is that ter­rorist organizations exist in Gaza in an organized infra­structure integrated to a greater extent than the terrorists in Iraq, are maintained within the mainstream of Palestinian society and have legitimate political iri.fluence. Hamas enjoys enormous popularity in Gaza and is threat­ening to overthrow Palestinian Authority control in Gaza once the disengagement is over. 
Already, the organization's members have dashed with Palestinian police only a month ago, shooting a top Palestinian ollicial and overturning and burning Palestinian Authority police ears in Northern Gaza. Why? Because the Palestinian police stopped an attempt to lob Kassam rockets at Israeli settlements in the region. 
This tactic of intimidation could become extremely suc­cessful against Mahmoud Abbas' hold on power in the Gaza Strip as he has tried to corral and cajole I lamas without confronting or disarming it. 
A<> Mr. Abbas is showing weakness; Ham as is showing strength independent of the centralized PA government. Their leaders have been holding their own news confer­ences before the Israeli withdrawal, claiming victory in ending the occupation in Gaza and promising to continue the armed struggle against the Israelis. 
What is the l-lamas definition of this armed struggle against the Israelis? Unfortunately, the organization has historically attacked the vulnerable and innocent, murder­ing in cold blood without regard for human life. 
The worst and most frightening prospect is that Hamas is threatening to secure a victory to control Gaza legiti­mately through elections and illegitimatnly, if necessary, 
through intimidation and violence. 

With the settlements and military outposts rmnoved from Gaza and the possibility of a Gaza seaport, Gaza could be the major center of operation fi)r llamas and other terror organizations in all of thn Palnstinian territo­ries. 
Aller all, it appears that its brand of violence has caused the Israelis to give up a major bloc of territory worth its weight in gold, which the terrorists arn claiming as justili­cation for suidde bombings and their other methods of murder. 
The Iraq War's parallel to the Israeli Gaza withdrawal would be what President Bush has bonn preaching against all along: no withdrawal until the Iraqi government can control the terrorist situation. 
The Palnstinian government cannot yet hamlin il.., own extremists, and many terrorists are aetually in thn govern­ment itself. The Gaza Strip is being given to thn Palestinians as a prize for the Second Intifada lin· nothing in return, when it eould have benn used in futuro negotia­tions as a bargaining ehip for tho disarming of terror groups and the future security of Israel. 
President Bush has supported lsnwl's disengagemnnt <L<> he attnmpts to show solidarity with Prime Minister Sharon in his bid lor pnaen. llowevor, when a plan is weak and shortsighted, a strong leader would not support it, !W!1!1 at the expense of a friend. 
A<> a passive accomplice to PM Sharon's biggest gamble, President Bush has forgotten his valtws. 
This column originally appeared in the Aug. 23 issue of The Dartmouth, the daily publication at Dartmouth University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Don't just take the professor's word 
I know this will shock you, but your pro­Did your science professor tell you that lilssors are not always right. Shhhhhh, this the scientific method is actually a specific is top seernt insider infil, sort of like when philosophical way of looking at science? you rnaliznd mom and dad got it wrong Empirical observation used to support about Santa, eandy rotting your teeth and hypothesis within a theory is not neutral your faec getting stuek because it is actually an element of the the­likn that. Amanda ory it is trying to verify or falsify. Science is 
They look so intelli­Hooper inevitably tainted by the paradigm of the gent down there during universe that the scientists ascribe to dass, behind the lectern because ultimately the scientific process 
Bowling Green

with their PowerPoinl<> relies on human reasoning. Maybe scientif­
State

and those fancy Ph.D.s ie "fact" is not foolproof, and it is a lot more
University

aftnr their names. This interrelated with philosophy and sociology
TheBGNews

is probably beeause than you thought. they are. llowever, pro-Or then there is the foreign language fessors are not infalli-professor who tells you that all Hispanie ble. They come to the d<L<>sroom with their people should be loyal to a particular politi­own set of experiences, opinions and bias­cal party for the obvious reason that only es. one party looks out for that group's inter­
In fad, some may be more biased on est<>. Maybe those "obvious" reasons are their area of specialty than just your aver­debatable, and differ by the individual. ago smart guy. They have spnnt ynars Thero is more to what shapes a person's immersed in a specific area of study, so it is politieal views than his or her ethnicity. pretty nasy to fi.Jrm strong opinions about Maybe that avant-garde piece of artwork certain aspeel<> of thfl subject. that the professor gushes over is really just 
Just think, you most likely know more what you think it is-for lack of a better about your favorite sport than your mom, word, really artistic crap. but you probably h<tve some proconeeived If you are at all engaged with your class notions that are debatable among other work, you will invariably eome aeross some sports fhns. inconsistencies with your professors' out­
l.adics, if you walk out of your women's look and your own. Trust your judbrment. studios class and don't feel oppressed by Don't cast those qunstions aside too quickly. the evil male patrian~hal society that Learning to think is more dillicult than just dolines your gender, won't let you open memorizing and regurgitating faet. your own doors or pull out your own chairs In the classroom, respecting your profes­and then pays you only 76 pnrcent of what sors is essential. Learning from them is they make fill" your work. there is not expednd. Truly processing the inlill"mation something wrong with you! they pass on to you and making educated 
Maybe you an~n 't opprossed, and p<lr­eondusions is ideal. haps wonwn don't make lnss bncause those Of eourse, the first step for some of you is numbers arn not adjusted lilr eomparable staying awake. timn and responsibility. In lhet, some stud­ins show wonwn make as mueh or even This column originally appeared in the morn than thnir male eounterparts in tho Aug. 23 issue ofThe BG News, the daily samn oceupation. publication at Bowling Green :-;tate 
If your political science proli1ssor tnlls l lniversity. you that govnrnnwnt is nnver th!~ problem The views expressed in this column are and always the solution, fncl fren to dis-those ofthe author and not necessarily agrm~. those ofThe Observer. 
No intelligent design in science textbooks 
If, as some have suggested, American and personal philosophies they adopt. science teachers present philosophical However, intelligent design should not theories like intelligent design alongside appear in science books alongside Darwin's theory of evolution, it would Darwin's theory of natural selection, as make the line between science and reli­some have suggested. The fi.mner is a gion -not to mention concept rooted more in faith than in sci­church and state -Staff ence, while the latter is a condusion dangerously indis­Editorial drawn from empirieal process and the tinct. scientific method. Scientists can't sail to 
When President the Galapagos Islands to determine Bush this month said University of whether some higher power built the schools should teach South Carolina Venus flytrap. both sides of the evo­The Gamecock Intelligent design represents a subjec­lution debate, it tive philosophy, not a testable sdentilic sparked controversy theory. Therefore, it should be presented over what science in schools as such. One possible solution textbooks in American schools should might be creating a separate dass include. geared toward discussing contrasting 
Christian conservatives have aligned philosophical ideas. themselves on the side of intelligent However polkymakers deeide to design, whieh argues that some organ­address the eontroversy in the class­isms are too complex to be explained rooms, one ean only hope that common using only Darwin's theory of evolution. sense and the ability to difl'erentiate Critics have argued that no scientific between philosophy and science -not basis exists for intelligent design, and buzzwords and politieal weblogs-will some have gone so far as to labPl it a lead states to make the right decision. clever trick for slipping creationism back into classrooms. Sadly, the debate has This column originally appeared in lhe fast become more political than scientif­Aug. 23 issue ofThe Gamecock, the daily 
ic. publication al The University of.'-iouth 
Theories like intelligent design should Carolina. be available to K-12 students, but only in The views expressed in this column are proper context. Students should be left to those ofthe author and not necessarily decide for themselves what worldviews those ofThe Observer. 

t, copy editor 
t~1@nd,edu 
-

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, August 24, 2005 
Summer movie roundup: A recap of the season' 
The summer is traditionally known as the blockbuster season for studios and audiences, as glossy special effects and movie stars drive box office receipts. The latest summer season. however. was alarmingly indistinct and lacking in many truly worthwhile films. Sequels and remakes seemed to be the trend, even for high-pro­111e directors like Tim Burton and Steven Spielberg and their equally big-name stars, Johnny Depp and Tom Cruise. 
Despite the potential of several summer films, most were disappointing, which was the general climate of the entire season. The relative failures ("Cinderella Man," whir.h fell short of recouping its more than $80 million budget) and smaller films ("Crash," written and directed by "Million Dollar Baby" scribe Paul Haggis) ended up being the best and most interesting in a summer largely devoid of origi­nality. 
Aside from these brighter blips, there were far more disasters than usual. Stars and directors alike stumbled. resulting in !11ms that were either wildly disappoint­ing ("Fantastic Four") or should never have been made in the first place ("Deucfl Bigalow: European Gigolo"). These films were over-saturated by their ad campaigns --money that would've been better spent ensuring the quality of the finished prod­uct. 
With a few exceptions, the best films of the summer seemed released in the wrong month, as they would've been better suited to Oscar season. This is a disappointing trend. as summer blockbusters have their own place and tend to be the most enjoy­able pictures of the year. That tradition was certainly was not the case this season. 

Batman Begins 
The gauntlet had been thrown down by Marvel Comics. Each of the last four sum­mers. the "X-Men" and "Spider-Man" sequels alternatively wowed critics and mass audiences, garnering high praise and even higher profits while raising the bar for intelligent, entertaining comic book films. This June, DC Comics finally awoke and struck back with "Batman Begins," dusting off a cobwebbed fran­chise and restoring it with vigor. 
Employing a similar recipe to the one used by Fox Studios and Sony Pictures for "X-Men" and "Spider-Man," respectively, Warner Bros. hired director Christopher Nolan ("Memento," "Insomnia") to reen­ergize a character that had fallen into despair under the campy fluorescent lights of "Batman Forever" and "Batman and Robin." Nolan, whose previous films had been low-budget independent films with a focus on strong characterization and a skillful directing style, focused the spotlight of "Batman Begins" firmly on Bruce Wayne, a tortured soul torn between revenge and justice. 
Unlike the previous films, where villains like Jack Nicholson's Joker frequently stole the show, Batman is no longer thrown to the wayside. The talented Christian Bale inhabits the dual role of Wayne and his alter ego, bringing a fierce intensity to the role that dismisses the previous interpretations of actors Michael Keaton, Val Kilmer and the clumsy George Clooney. Bale got so into the role that even the name on his trailer door was labeled "Bruce Wayne." 
Surrounding Bale is a veteran cast, studded with perennial Oscar-contenders Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman andLiam Neeson. The solid script and impressive cast helped the film paint an original, captivating story in a summer where originality was as hard to capture as Batman himself. 

Cinderella Man 
Ron Howard's "Cinderella Man" failed to become the blockbuster that the studio expected, though it's difficult to see why. Perhaps its summer release hindered its potential, as many audiences would reject a serious (albeit uplifting) film about a boxer in the midst of the Great Depression. Wariness over the real-life antics of star Russell Crowe may have also contributed to the film's failure to find a mass audience. But despite being a relative commercial failure, "Cinderella Man" wound up as one of the best films of the summer season. 
Good filmmakers know that the secret of boxing pictures is that they aren't real­ly about boxing at all. Instead, they focus on character, which helps underscore the brutal nature of the sport itself. In that regard, "Cinderella Man" is at once a biopic of real-life Heavyweight Champion James Braddock and a spot-on depiction of Depression difficulties. 
Great acting and directing carries "Cinderella Man." Russell Crowe is reli­able as ever, playing one of the genuinely nicest protagonists in recent memory. The rest of the cast is equally consistent, from Renee Zellweger's concerned wife to Paul Giamatti's fast-talking agent. The film is well-shot, especially in the boxing sequences, which are stylized and brutal, more "Raging Bull" than "Rocky." This allows the fights to carry a surprisingly efl'ective emotional weight. 
In his review of the film, critic Roger Ebert pointed out that "there's no great need for another [terrific boxing movie]." but he shouldn't complain. As long as they're being made, they should all be as terrific and inspiring as "Cinderella Man." 

Crash 
"Crash" is an intelligent, well-crafted film and a distinct departure from the recurring trend of sequels, remakes and fundamentally bad films that were released this summer. The movie deals with the difficult topic of race relations in Los Angeles, but writer/director Paul Haggis, who also wrote the critical favorite "Million Dollar Baby," creates multifaceted characters and intertwining stories that simultaneously evoke thought, anger and hope. 
While the topic of race is difficult to deal with, "Crash" portrays a wide range of racial issues both sensitively and criti­cally while still managing to be a highly entertaining film. The ensemble cast is brilliant, and includes a somewhat unusu­al group of actors, such as Sandra Bullock, Brendan Fraser, Don Cheadle, Matt Dillon, Ryan Phillipe and rapper Ludacris. Some of the most notable per­formances include Sandra Bullock with her work as a depressed socialite, proving that she can do more than just romantic comedies, and Ludacris, playing a car­jacker who simultaneously complains about and embodies stereotypes about young black men, revealing that the rap­per just might have a future in acting. 
While each of the characters spends only a small percentage of the film on screen, "Crash" manages to give each of them depth and makes them seem like real people. While the film is alternately uncomfortable and inspiring to watch, it is one of the f!JW films in the last few years that offered such a genuinely inter­esting and insightful critique of human relationships.­
STORIES BY RAMA BRIAN DOXTADER A 

Charlie and the Chocolate Factory 
This summer seemed to be the season of remakes, few as high-profile as Tim Burton's second adaptation of Roald Dahl's "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory." 
Burton's direction and style are as evident as ever, resulting in a jagged look to Charlie's hometown and a Chocolate Factory that's more of a sensory overload than a confectioner's headquarters. To the filmmakers' credit, the movie looks and sounds very good, buoyed by the art direction and a truly bizarre musical score by Danny Elfman. 
However, there are two major problems with "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory." The first is the addition of a gratuitous backstory that de-emphasizes Charlie and concentrates instead on Willy Wonka and his candy­hating dentist father (though the casting of Christopher Lee in this role is a stroke of brilliance). 
The second is with Johnny Depp's portrayal of Willy Wonka. Depp and Burton have teamed up before, often to glorious results ("Edward Scissorhands" and espe­cially "Ed Wood"). But in "Charlie," his bizarre manner­isms and child-like tendencies are far creepier and less effective than his performances in either of those other two films. For an actor of Depp's caliber, this is dis­heartening, though it does demonstrate just how good Gene Wilder's performance as Wonka was in the origi­nal. 

Comparisons to the pseudo-psychedelic 1971 original are inevitable, and while the 2005 version is far more stylized and visually arresting, it's not nearly as effec­tive as the original. What's strangest is that the title of this version is "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" while the original was entitled "Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory." Yet the removal of the Everlasting Gobstopper subplot and addition of Wonka's backstory actually de-emphasizes Charlie and focuses on Wonka himself. 
Considering Depp's odd decision in a film that had filled. 
Fantastic Four 
The summer season e genre films. Paramount the comic book film, as In this year's throwdown two venerable comic bo limped far behind "Batman 
Doomed by a mediocre effects and dull char celebrate. Beyond a few Storm (Chris Evans), the punctuated by brainless energy associated with playful banter and pran between the Human To Chiklis) were the only claimed inspiration from Kirby's popular 1960s 
The wooden pe Jessica Alba as Mr. the film down to played by Julian McMahon, menace. 
The film's script was so actually trekked all the way -as the fantastic foursome to throw him back his rii hideous transformation. T scene. worthy of any episo( appeared and vanished ir another example of a sumn 
ward to the next jaw-dropp1When the inevitable "Fan~· 

THE OBSERVER 




CENE
Wednesday, August 24, 2005 
Page 15 
triumphs, disappointments and downright unwatchable films 


GOTTUMU KKALA, NO MOLLY G R I F F N 
·l'orrnance, this is the worst more potential than it ful­
loys a revolving door for ung those genrns has been r-presnnt as summer itself. \tween Marvnl and DC, the 
giants, "Fantastic Four" 3ngins." 
tho directing and writing team would be wise to invest some heart into their lead characters, instead of string­ing audiences along from one mindless action sequence after another. 
War of the Worlds 
"War ol' the Worlds," whilo not an awful film, doesn't l'ullill the expnctations that most moviegoers had for the pairing of director Steven Spielberg and star Tom Cruise. 
Spielberg has directed two other hugely successful alien films, "Close Encounters of the Third Kind" and "E.T.," and Cruise has starred in a string of successful summer films, including "Mission: Impossible." The combination of Spielberg, Cruise and H.G. Wells' classic science fiction story led to huge expectations for the film, whieh it unfortunately failed to meet, despite mak­ing a large amount of money at the box offiee. 
The action in the !ilm is well directed and keeps view­ers' attnntion, but the lilm stumbles when it puts too much focus on Cruise, who plays a irresponsible, divorced father, and his children, particularly Dakota Fanning. Tim Hobbins does some great work in the film as a creepy survivalist, but none of the other actors put forth any notable performances. 
The end of the movie is incredibly disappointing and !'ails to match the suspenseful build-up. By that time, the audience has seen Tom Cruise narrowly escape death so many times that it simply stops being believ­able. 
The film is entertaining while it is being viewed, but looked at logically, the plot of the entire movie falls apart and becomes inereasingly unsatisfying. 
"War of the Worlds" is by no means an awfullilm, but considering the amount of talent and money that was poured into it, it fails to meet any of the expectations that were held out for it. 
TOTAL. GRoss 
Deuce Bigalow: European Gigolo 
Some lilms are made to have sequels. such as "The Lord of tlw Hings," while others are bad but aren't awful, like "Miss Congeniality 2." Finally, thnre are the sequels that simply make you <Tinge, like "Deuce Bigalow: European Gigolo." 
The original film, "Deueo Bigalow: Male Gigolo," was bad to say the least, but it had a few inappropriately funny moments that made it possible to sit through. The first film was really nothing more than a one-joke movie, and attempting to stn~tch the already weak eoneept to fill another movie makes the sequel dull and tedious to watch. The sequel's plot centers around Deuce's return to work as a malo prostitute while his fellow workers are being mysteriously murdered. 
All of the tasteless jokes that you would expect are included, and moving the action to Europe doesn't really change much except that stale jokns about differ­ent nationalities can be exchanged to lit the new continent. 
Hob Schneider and Eddie Griffin could potentially be funny as a tnam with the right material, but the thin premise of this movie gives them nothing substantial to work with. This lilm is truly a testa­ment to the lack of original ideas and taste in llollywood. 
Dukes of Hazzard 
Movies based on defunct television shows are rarely any good, but "The Dukes of Hazzard" manages to sink to a new low. This film is nothing more than a lame excuse to blow things up, have car chases and bring Jessica Simpson out in a bikini. 
While the television show was not any­thing dose to critically acclaimed, it was still popular and possessed some sort of charm and energy that made it a success­ful show with a devoted legion of fans. The film version merely appropriates the show's name and characters and repack­ages them for a younger generation, an odd strategy because it ignores the fans of' the show and aims for those who never watched the original. 
The casting is squarely aimed at attracting a younger audience, with Sean William Scott ("American Pie") and Johnny Knoxville ("Jackass") filling in as Bo and Luke Duke. Scott and Knoxville are normally entertaining regardless of how bad the film is, but even they get bogged down in the dull and meandering plot. Jessica Simpson relies entirely on her ability to wear a bikini, which is prob­ably for the best because her acting skills are nonexistent. She is completely ovnr­whelmed by what is going on· around lwr. 

The presence of notable casting choicns like Burt Heynolds. Willie Nelson and Linda Carter (TV's "Wonder Woman") isn't enough to savn this lilrn and it raisns q unstions as to why they are there in tlw lirst plaee. 
"The Dukes of llazzard" is simply had. boring and nearly unwatchable. 
Stealth 

There is an odd t n~ n d or r n cent. Academy Award winners going on to make subpar f'ilms, from DnnzPl Washington making "Man On Fin~" to llalle Berry making "Catwoman" to Gwynth Paltrow making "Shallow llal." Jamie Foxx joins that llall of Shame with his latest, "Stealth." 
What's sad is that Foxx's perf'ormanen isn't terrible at all, but it seems tnrribiP bncausn the dialogue and plot arn so poor·. "Stealth" might qualify as a popcorn pic­ture, except that a popcorn pieturn is designed to be enjoyable. The Iogie of the lilm is questionable at host and egregious at worst, and the pacing is much slowiH' than might be expected. The cast ranges in quality, from extrl'mely good (Sam Shepard, whoso echoes of "Tho Hight Stulr' is morn depressing than thrilling) to extn1mely poor (Jessica Biel, who is straddled with sueh bad dialogue that one is almost tempted to forgive her). There are actually a surprising amount of quali­ty actors on display here, which is ulti­mately a shame since they are stuck in a movie with such poor dialogue and plot­ting. 
The special effects and charisma of its lead star help carry "Stealth," but not by much. Director Hob Cohen, whose previ­ous credits include "The Fast and the Furious" and "XXX," is often regarded as a subpar popcorn moviemaker, but at least those films were enjoyable in a mindless sort of way. "Stealth" donsn't even grant that guilty pleasure. 
The Jilm didn't do well at the box ollien dospite a monstrous marknting campaign, which bodes well as it demonstrates that audiences expect a lot more than special eiTects and star power to carry a picture. It's something that Jamie Foxx oHght to remember as he chooses roles, especially since it served him so wnll in "Collateral" and "Hay." 
Contact Rama GottumukkaJa, Brian Doxtader and Molly Griffin at rgottumu@nd.edu, bdoxtade@nd.edu and mgriffin@nd.edu 

1-WAR OFDE'WORLDS 
$230.725.666 2.. BA"'D'llMN BEGIIJIIS $202..358.091 
3. CltltNiUIEAIUJiiiDJ $193.219.376 1JHIECltiiOCOa..ATE , FM:IOifi 
$183.438.987

·~ NR.. .MID MAs. SiiMIIH 5. \'II1IEJrJiooNr CRA.SHERs 
$178.518.000 6 .. F~Fiari.JR $150.774.680 7_ TitlE OlJJIC1ESOF HI\:Z.ZARD $69.693.942 8.1HEJRBE: AJt..lY lOI\DED $64.281.751 9 .. Jl3iiEWifK:ItiE $62.252..415 10.. OINII:DERIE:1I. MAIN! $61.360..220 
RAHAM EBETSCH/Observer Graphic 
cri pt. un irn prnssivn visual this film !'natured little to 1itty o1w-Jiners by Johnny lry plodded along and was :Ins that didn't pop with the norabln action films. The · thrown back and forth and tho Thing (Michael hie elements ol' a story that reator Stan Len and Jack 
ns ol' loan (;ru!Tudd and and Invisible Girl dragged Dr. Doom, Uw main villain as more a nuisance than a 
~hie that the Thing's fianct\ out to the Brooklyn Bridge busily avertml disaster ­g, rej eeti ng hint for his rat supposedly dramatie e of "Days ol' Our Lives," 
a few meager seconds, er film trying to l'ast for­' action scene. Yawn. stic Four" sequel rolls out, 

THE OBSERVER 


CENE
page 16 
Wednesday, August 24, 2005 
CONCERT PREVIEW 
Anticipation builds for The Show 2005 
Rock quartet Cake and R&B artist Akon headline year's biggest concert 
By BOB COSTA 
Scene Wrirer 
Deciding which performers to bring to The Show, Notre Dame's largest on­campus concert, can be a daunting task. 
This year, numerous acts were con­sicered as possible performers, from jam-bands to rap impresarios. After much deliberation, The Show 2005 committee, which consists of 17 mem­bers of the student body, settled on a bill coupling Sacramento rock quartet Cake with the politically conscious crossover R&B artist Akon. Notre Dame student and freestyle artist Da Natural also will open and perform briefly between sets. 
The Show 2005, which is in its fourth year, is expected to draw about 4,000 students, event advisor Aaron Perri said. 
"[The Show 2005 committee] was looking to find a really diverse 

artist along with The Show a serious lyricist an old favorite Performers: Cake, Akon, Da Natural and raucous per­
with mass former. Akon's cur­
Date: Friday, August 26, 8 p.m. 

appeal, so we rent radio hit with
Venue: Joyce Center Fieldhouse 

Baby Bash, "Baby,
could entice Tickets: $10, LaFortune Box Office 
both freshmen and the upper­classmen who in the past haven't always come to the event," said Anja Smitz, the student chairperson of The Show 2005 committee. 
Cake, which recently played at Lollapalooza 2005 and at a sold-out concert in Brazil, has been around the music world since the band debuted on college radio with its infectious single "Rock N' Roll Lifestyle" in 1995 off their album "Motorcade of Generosity." 
Cake went multi-platinum a few years later when its singles "Never There" and "The Distance," which is often played at major sporting events, hit the Top 40. 
"In terms of where American music, and especially radio is at the moment, music seems to only be popular if it is a bulbous, oversized, muscular, striving rock and roll," John McCrea, Cake's lead singer and guitarist, said. 
"For Cake, we are more about turning the volume down a bit, and not being entirely overt about emotion. Every song shouldn't be a soap opera, straight drama, or sadness, or humor," McCrea said. "Doing that is simplistic, and the songs become distillates of real life. Our music has humor and sadness existing side by side, sitting on a couch, drink­ing a beer with one another." 
McCrea and his bandmates released their most recent album "Pressure Chief' in September 2004, an amorous play of subtle melodies and multi-lay­ered songwriting that contrasted nicely with the previously wide-held percep­tion of Cake as a deadpan rock band that consistently delivered three-minute indie rock riffs on life and loathing. 
"Our paradigm is contradiction," McCrea said, "That is true rebellion. It is more rock and roll to not wear a leather jacket than to wear one." 
Akon, who hails from Senegal, is 
respected by both 
critics and fans as 
I'm Back" is being 
played often on rap radio, and Notre Dame students may remember him from his hilarious appearance on MTV's "Punk'd" -or could have seen him on MTV2, where he has become popular through heavy promotion of his hits "Bananza (Belly Dancer)" and "Lonely." 
Akon was recently nominated for an MTV2 Music Video Award at the 2005 VMAs -which will incidentally be held two days after The Show -and has become known for a signature style that combines his unique West African vocals with hip-hop rhythms that pon­der the ways of the street instead of indulging in male rap fantasies. 
For Da Natural, whose real name is Jeff Stephens, The Show 2005 will be a huge watermark in his burgeoning career. As emcee and performer, Da Natural, a junior, will deliver his already popular original tracks like "Dedication" and "I Have A Dream" in an arena setting for the first time. 
Past performers at The Show, which started as Flipstock in 2001, have included Jason Mraz, Guster, Black Eyed Peas, Better Than Ezra, George Clinton, and They Might Be Giants. 

The Joyce Center Fieldhouse doors open at 7 p.m. Friday and the concert begins at 8. The Show, which is open only to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students, is selling tickets for $10 at the LaFortune Box Office. 
Contact Bob Costa at rcostal@nd.edu 

Perform.ing Arts Center strengthens sophom.ore schedule 
By LIZ BYRUM 
Assisranr Scene Edi ror 
More than 10,000 people walked through the doors of .the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts (DPAC) during its open house weekend last September. And while the DPAC is only in its second year, its inaugural success has raised hopes and expectations for the coming semester. 
"The Performing Arts Center is still defining what its greatest strengths are," said Laura Moran, director of marketing at the DPAC. 
Already some of those strengths are becoming clear, even as the venue is in transition. 
The top three focuses for entertain­ment shows continue to be classical, world and jazz performances. Notre Dame will also feature groups focused on modern dance, touring theatre, blue grass and popular music over the next few months. 
On Sept. 2, the season will open with a unique one-night performance by the Las Vegas act, Toxic Audio. They are currently performing a long-standing show at the Luxor Las Vegas Hotel and have been described as the "vocal equivalent of STOMP." As winner of New York's 2004 Drama Desk Award, Toxic Audio is beginning to reach the level of fame that Blue Man Group enjoyed five years ago. 
In the coming year, Notre Dame will welcome several of the great modern dance companies in the United States, including Merce Cunningham Dance Company. 
"Merce Cunningham Dance Company has performed to [musical composi­tions] scored specifically for them by Radiohead and John Cage," Moran said. 
Notre Dame also extends its Irish tra­dition to the performing arts again this year with a returning performance by The Chieftains next March and the leg­endary Irish musician Tommy Makem and his sons, the Makem Brothers, in late September. 
In the field of cinema, DPAC is "doing a great job at showing films that relate to who we are as a school and a com­munity," Moran said. 
This year, Browning Cinema will fea­ture several films making their pre­mieres in Northern Indiana, including "Murderball" on Sept. 2 and Sept. 3, as well as "Rize" and "Last Days" later in September. 
The PAC Classic 100 film series, a collection of films deemed essential and noteworthy over the course of the medium's existence, will also continue into the fall. 
The performing arts center has also made it a mission to help build strong connections between the university and the surrounding South Bend communi­ty. 
"Notre Dame is trying to partner with different organizations that will help us develop the relationship with the South Bend community," Moran said. 
University President Father John Jenkins has been instrumental to this cause through his personal involve­ment with the South Bend Symphony Orchestra, Moran said. The orchestra will be presenting the June H. Edwards Chamber Series within DPAC, with the hope that it will create more personal ties between the university and the surrounding areas, Moran said. 

Hoping to connect to the community 
outside Notre Dame, the DPAC has 
been undergoing changes to its physi­
cal location, including construction to 
the surrounding area and the newly 
constructed south entrance to Notre 
Dame Avenue. Moran believes that the 
new walking paths and a possible out­
door amphitheatre will serve as "a 
space students will enjoy spending time 
in and a great meeting place with peo­
ple in the community." 
Another welcomed improvement 
DPAC has made for this season is the 
addition of a brand new Web site and 
the ability to purchase tickets online 
for many of the upcoming shows. With 
the convenience of a click of a button 
and a short walk, there are more rea­
sons than ever for students to attend 
the performing arts center in its second 
season, Moran said. 
"We would like to get to the point 
where arts are an inescapable part of a 
Notre Dame student's experience at · school," she said. 
Contact Liz Byrum at ebyrum@nd.edu 
Wednesday, August 24, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
Welcome, Students! We've Got aYear of Great Performances Ahead at Notre Dame's DeBartolo Performing Arts Center! 

9/2 Acappella quintet TOXIC AUDIO, described in rave 11/1-11/2 Modern dance with the renowned MERCE 2/18 THE SOWETO GOSPEL CHOIR. world-famous African reviews as "the audio equivalent of STOMP." You won't CUNNINGHAM DANCE COMPANY; inspirational musicians, in concert: 8pm believe your ears! 8 pm 7:30 pm (both nights) 
2/26 Premiere classical flautist SIR JAMES GALWAY, 
9/9 Classical musicians ENSEMBLE GALILEI and 11/6 Grammy Award-winning Senegalese pop musician LADY JEANNE GALWAY, and the POLISH CHAMBER NPR's "Talk of the Nation" Host NEAL CONAN YOUSSOU N'DOUR-"The Voice of Africa"-in ORCHESTRA in concert; 7pm in amultimedia performance that includes images from concert; 7 pm 
3/2 Ireland's most recognized name in traditional music
the Hubble Space Telescope 8pm 

11/8 Contemporary jazz from Mexico with the ETHOS TRIO; THE CHIEFTAINS in concert; 7:30 pm 9/16 An evening with BRUCE HORNSBY, former Grateful 7:30pm 
3/4 Classical guitarist ROBERT BLUESTONE in WOVEN 
Dead band member and versatile rock pianist: 9 pm 

11/9 Classical pianist KRYSTIAN ZIMERMAN in concert; HARMONY, amultimedia concert featuring the textile 9/30 Legendary Irish musician, the "Bard of Armagh" 7:30pm art of REBECCA BLUESTONE: 8prn TOMMY MAKEM in concert with his sons. 
11/27 Austria's world-famous VIENNA CHOIR BOYS in 3/9 Grammy-award winning musician EDGAR MEYER .
THE MAKEM BROTHERS: 8 pm 

concert: 3 pm (standup bass) and MIKE MARSHALL (mandolin, 10/6 OPERA VERDI EUROPA GALA NIGHT. An evening guitar) perform bluegrass with classical influences:
12/1 The PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA,
of opera's greatest hits; 7:30pm 7:30pm
conducted by Hans Grat with violinist Saral1 Chang; 10/13 Traditional jazz with the world-famous PRESERVATION 730 pm 3/21 POMERIUM in concert, performing acappe/la sacred HALL JAZZ BAND: 9pm music of the Renaissance; 7:30 Pill
12/9 Classical guitar virtuoso CHRISTOPHER PARKENING 10/14 Academy Award-winning composer and conductor and bass-baritone JUBILANT SYKES perform aspecial 3/23 One of Russia's best-known classical ensembles, MARVIN HAMLISCH; 9 pill Christmas show: 8pm the KIROV ORCHESTRA. directed by Valery Gergiev: 7:30pm
10/21 Acelebration of Gypsy song and traditional Spanish 12/11 Enjoy atraditional Celtic Christmas with award·winning dance with BALLET FLAMENCO JOSE PORCEL: 9 pm performers CHERISH THE LADIES; 7pm 3/25 Contemporary Irish instrumental band FLOOK; 8 pm 
10/27 Atlanta's 7Stages Theatre performs Athol Fugard's 2/4 Arab composer, violins!, and oud master SIMON 4/1 Britain's leading period-instrument orchestra, the ground-breaking play about apartheid "MASTER SHAHEEN in concert with QANTARA; 8 pm ACADEMY OF ANCIENT MUSIC; 8pm HAROLD" ... AND THE BOYS: 7:30pm 
2/10 Grammy-winning violinist MARK O'CONNOR'S 4/21 BILL CHARLAP TRIO in concert. built around the 10/29 Internationally celebrated mezzo-soprano DAWN HOT SWING in concert; 8 pm phenomenal jazz piano of Bill Charlap; 8 pm UPSHAW and contemporary ensemble EIGHTH 
2/14 Canadian classical pianist ANGELA HEWITT
BLACKBIRD perform Osvaldo Golijov's "Ayre"; 8pm 

in concert; 7:30 pm 
STUDENTS CAN PURCHASE TICKETS WITH DOMER DOLLARS, PACFUNDS, CASH, CHECK, OR CREDIT! 
Student ticket prices range from $10-$20, depending on performance. Don't forget about our movies! See the full schedule on line, or call DPAC's recorded Film Line: 631-FILM 

page 18 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, August 24, 2005 
MLB 

Yankees and Indians stay tied in race for AL w-ild card 
Jacque Jones' homer ends no-hit bid and wins game for Minnesota 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Felix Escalona's bases-loaded single with two outs in the ninth inning gave the New York Yankees a 5-4 victory over the Toronto Blue Jays on Tuesday night and sole posses­sion of the AL wild-card lead. 
Hideki Matsui hit a tying homer in the ninth, and Derek Jeter had two hits in his return to the lineup for the Yankees (69-55), who scored in each of the final four innings to win for the ninth time in 12 games and reach 14 games over .500 for the first time this season. 
New York, which didn't lead until the final hit, had been tied for the wild-card lead with Oakland, which lost at Detroit. 
Vernon Wells had three hits, including a homer, as the Blue Jays wasted a strong start by Josh Towers and matched a sea­son high with their fifth straight loss. 
Toronto took a 4-3 lead off Mariano Rivera (6-3) in the ninth, but Matsui led off the bot­tom half with his 20th homer, a drive off Miguel Batista (5-5). .Jorge Posada walked with one out, and Robinson Cano walked with two outs. Batista then intentionally walked Jeter to load the bases for Escalona, who singled to center on an 0-2 pitch. 
After New York tied it in the eighth, Orlando Hudson singled off Rivera with one out in the ninth when Escalona came off first base to grab Jeter's throw. Hudson took second on an infield out and scored on Reed Johnson's single, beating Matsui's throw from left. 
AI Leiter allowed three runs and six hits with one walk and five strikeouts in seven-plus innings. The left-hander threw 121 pitches-50 more than Towers needed to get the same amount of outs. Towers gave up two runs and six hits. 
Leiter had retired eight in a row before Wells hit his 23rd homer with one out in the fourth. Gregg Zaun bounced an HBI single up the middle for a 2­0 lead later in the inning. 
Twins 1, White Sox 0 
MINNEAPOLIS -Jacque .Jones ended Freddy Garcia's no­hit bid with a home run to lead off the eighth inning, and Johan Santana and the Minnesota Twins beat the Chicago White Sox on Tuesday night. 
Santana (13-6) gave up three hits and walked one in eight innings, striking out seven to beat Garcia in a battle of per­haps Venezuela's two best pitch­ers. Santana, last year's AL Cy Young Award winner, improved to 6-1 after the All-Star break. 
Garcia (11-6) walked two and struck out three in eight innings. Jones' homer to right-center was his 18th of the season and the only hit Minnesota managed. 
The Twins moved within 9 1/2 games of first-place Chicago in the AL Central -with Cleveland in second, seven games out. Minnesota and Chicago play nine more times this season. 
Joe Nathan pitched the ninth for his 32nd save and extended his scoreless innings streak to 15. 
Santana and Garcia made this look like a pennant race classic, matching each other inning for inning. 
Pablo Ozuna stroked a single off Santana's first pitch and dou­bled down the left-field line in the third,·but that was it until Geoff Blum singled with two outs in the seventh. Ozuna followed with a drive to deep center, but Lew Ford -named the AL's Player of the Week the day before -caught it on the run before he crashed into the wall. 
Joe Mauer, who walked twice, was erased in the fourth when Justin Morneau hit a come­backer to the mound that Garcia quickly turned into a double play. To no avail, Twins manager Ron Gardenhire argued that shortstop Juan Uribe missed the base on the pivot. 
Michael Cuddyer reached sec­ond to start the sixth when Ozuna tried to backhand a grounder to third and let it roll under his glove. He moved to third on a groundout, but Garcia stranded him there _ finishing the inning when Jermaine Dye jumped to catch Nick Punto's fly­ball and hit his left arm hard against the right-field wall. 


Red Sox 5, Royals 2 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. -David Wells and the Boston Red Sox maintained their mastery of Kansas City with a victory Tuesday night, snapping the Royals' two-game winning streak that followed a team­record 19 straight losses. 
Edgar Renteria had three hits and Jason Varitek hit a towering home run for Boston, which handed the Royals their team­record ninth straight loss at home. 
Wells (10-6) allowed five hits in five shutout innings for his 11th straight win over the Royals, raising his lifetime record against Kansas City to 16-3. 

Jeremi Gonzalez pitched three hitless innings and Mike Timlin worked the ninth, giving up two runs on Donnie Murphy's single with the bases loaded. 
The Royals snapped the 19­game losing streak on Saturday night at Oakland and beat the Athletics again on Sunday. 
Wells worked out of jams in the first and second and issued two walks for only the third time this season. The left-hander has not lost to Kansas City since May 5, 1993, while with Detroit. 
Zack Greinke (3-15) became the first major league pitcher with 15 losses as the Red Sox beat the Royals for the fourth time in as many games this sea­son. Since 2001, the Red Sox are 20-8 against Kansas City and have guaranteed themselves of winning the season series for the fifth straight year. 
Greinke, in his first appear­ance against the Red Sox, gave up five runs and nine hits, with two walks and three strikeouts. His ERA climbed to 6.04. 
Renteria had an RBI single in a three-run third. After Bill Mueller doubled and scored on a two-out double by Johnny Damon, Renteria's first hit scored Damon to make it 2-0. Then David Ortiz doubled for a 3-0 lead. 

Cubs 10, Braves 1 
CHICAGO -Jerome Williams took a no-hit bid into the fifth inning and had the first multihit game of his career, and .Jeromy Burnitz backed him with a grand slam to lead the Chicago Cubs over the Atlanta Braves Monday night. 
Williams (4-6) allowed one run and three hits in 7 2-3 innings, his longest outing this season. After walking Rafael Furcal leading ofT the game, he retired 11 in a row before Andruw Jones led off the firth with his 40th homer. 
At the plate, Williams was 2­for-4 with a single, double and a run. 
Burnitz, in an 15-for-71 slide coming in, hit his eighth career slam, his first since May 2003, for an 8-0 lead in the fourth against reliever Joey Devine. Burnitz has 19 homers this sea­son. 
Braves starter John Thomson (3-4) lasted just 3 2-3 innings for his second straight start, allow­ing five runs and seven hits. He gave up seven runs and eight hits in a loss to the Los Angeles Dodgers on Thursday. 

Williams, 1-for-17 this year coming in, hit a leadoff double in the third. Todd Walker hit an RBI grounder, Burnitz walked with the bases loaded and Neiii Perez blooped a two-run single to center. 
After going 0-3 in his previous four starts, Williams threw 112 pitches_ 68 for strikes. He left to a loud ovation after allowing a single by Johnny Estrada and walking Peter Orr. Heliever Roberto Novoa retired Marcus Giles on a groundout to end the eighth. 
Michael Barrett hit a two-run double in the bottom half for the Cubs. 


Pirates 10, Cardinals 0 
PITTSBUHGH -Unbeaten rookie Zach Duke pitched two shutout innings before leaving with a sprained left ankle and the Pittsburgh Pirates got big nights from three other first­year players to beat St. Louis on Tuesday night. 
Nate McLouth, one of four rookies in Pittsburgh's increas­ingly young lineup, hit his first career homer -a two-run drive off the slumping Jason Marquis -and Ty Wigginton had a three-run triple in his first Pirates' at-bat in 2 1/2 months. Chris Duffy and Hyan Doumit, the other two rookies, each reached base three times and scored a combined five runs. 

Pirates second baseman Jose Castillo was lost for the rest of the season Monday when he sprained a ligament in his ldt knee turning a double play. 
While the Pirates finally did something right against the divi­sion-leading Cardinals, who had won 15 of I 7 against them, Duke's injury was a disconcert­ing note on an otherwise prom­ising night for a team headed for its 13th consecu~ive losing sea­son. 
With the Pirates up 4-0, Duke (6-0, 1.81 EHA) singled to start the second inning for his second career hit and advanced on Duffy's single. But Duke was trapped off second on McLouth's line drive that shortstop David Eckstein intentionally dropped and, trying to decide whether to head for third or go back to sec­ond, was tagged out scrambling back to the bag. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS-The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Part-time babysitter, flex hrs., for 4-Blue & Gold Homes. 2-8 bedroom, FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. That's my Swingline yr-old boy. Must be responsible and weekend rentals, furnished, alumni 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB­NOTICES caring person. References req. Call FoR RENT owned. You design lease. Call 250· SITE FOR$$: Skull print bandanas are not sexy 574-631-3770. 7653. www. victorytickets.com Who is Felix Escalona? 
Welcome back!!! SOCCER REFEREES needed for Two 2-bdrrn condos: 18041-B Bulla Furnished 1 bedroom apt. 2 miles BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT-south side elementary school local-Rd·. & 18027-A Bulla Rd. $975/mo. to ND. A/C, non-smoking, no pets, BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. Drink tap water, Save again. ed near Erskine Golf Course on Property Management Svcs 233-$450/mo. Free laundry, Flexible 273-3911. 
Miami St.$35 per soccer game. Call 4590. lease. 289-9365. Vincennes University! FoR SALE 574-291-4200. WANTED:4-6 MSU GAs 
2 bedroom horne within 1.5 miles of to~ether.Dave 248-761-1767 Please recycle the Observer. 
Bookmakers Pub now hiring cooks 2001 alum looking to rent out Turtle campus. Partially furnished with and servers. Make big $$ during Creek townhouse MSU weekend extra room, washer/dryer, and Kiran Chetry Fan Club. Call 4-0772. football. 272-1766 or 574-532-FOR SALE (9/16& 17) plus full maid cleanup on kitchen appliances. $750/month. PERSONALS 4933. Sunday, negotiable. Call Rob Call574-250-8552. No futons. 
Brand new full mattress & box. Still (415)845-54 if interested UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Undergrad to assist senior biology in plastic. $120. Can deliver. 574-not go it alone. If you or someone Don't sweat the petty things and grad student with BioPerl applica-876-4474. To the person who put in a classi-TICKETS you love needs confidential support don't pet the sweaty things. lions for upcoming paper to be pub-lied ad for Turtle Creek rental dur-or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. lished in Science. For credit hours. Queen pillowtop mattress set. New ing MSU weekend, please call Gude, esc, at 1-7819. For more Help needed with crossword puz-Contact Jim Hogan at with warranty. $155. Can deliver. Shirley at 631-7471. The phone WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. inforrnation, see our bi-weekly ad in zle: Three-letter word, synonym of jhogan1 @nd.edu 574-231-4522. number in the ad was cut off. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. THE OBSERVER. '1o purchase." 




OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday August 24, 2005 CotvtPlLED FROM THE OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Page 19 
Major League Baseball American League East 
team record pnre. last 10  GB  
Boston 71-51 .582 6-4  
New York 68-55 .553 7-3  3.5  
Toronto 63-61 .508 4-6  9  
Baltimore 60-63 .488 5·5  11.5  
Tampa Bay 51-74 .408 8-2  21.5  
American League Central  
team record pore. last 10  GB  
Chicago 75-46 .620 3-7  
Cleveland 69-56 .552 6-4  8  
Minnesota 68-58 .532 8-2  10.5  
Detroit 61·62 .496 7-3  15  
Kansas City 40·82 .328 2-8  35.5  
American League West  
tnam l'IJCOrd pBrc . last 10  GB  
Los Angeles 71-53 .573 6-4  
Oakland 68-56 .548 3-7  3  
Texas 57-66 .463 1-9  13.5  
Seattle 53-70 .431 4·6  17.5  
National League East  
tnam reeord pnrc. last 10  GB  
Atlanta 71·54 ..568 5·5  
Florida 66-58 .532 7-3  4.5  
Philadelphia 67·59 .532 6·4  4.5  
Washington 65-59 .524 6-4  5.5  
New York 64·60 .516 6·4  6.5  
National League Central  
toam record pore. last 10  GB  
St. Louis 79-46 .632 6·4  
Houston 67-58 .536 4-6  12  
Milwaukee 61-64 .488 5·5  18  
Chicago 60·65 .480 5·5  19  
Cincinnati 57-67 .480 5-5  21.5  
Pittsburgh 53·72 .424 4-6  26  
National League West  
team record pen~. last 10  GB  
San Diego 61-63 .492 3·7  
Arizona 58·68 .460 3·7  4  
Los Angeles 56·611 .452 5·5  5  
San Francisco 55·69 .444 5·5  6  
Colorado 47·77 .379 3·7  14  

NSCAA/ Adidas Preseason Men's Soccer Poll 
team pretJ. record pretJ. rank 
1 Indiana 18·4·2 1 2 Maryland 17-6·2 3 3 Duke 18·6·0 4 
4 UC Santa Barbara 21·2·2 2 5 St. John's 12·6·4 T-5 6 Virginia 18·5·1 T-5 7 Southern Methodist 16·4·1 11 8 New Mexico 17-1-2 10 9 UCLA 14·4·2 14 10 Wake Forest 14·5·2 12 11 VA Commonwealth 12·6·3 7 12 Creighton 14·4·2 13 13 UNC·Greensboro 19·3·1 9 14 Tulsa 12·7·4 8 15 Boston College 13·5·2 15 16 NOTRE DAME 13·3·3 17 17 North Carolina 10·9·2 NR 18 Ohio State 12·7·2 16 19 Connecticut 12·8·3 22 20 California 13-4·3 18 21 Santa Clara 15·6·0 NR 22 Old Dominion 13·6·2 19 23 Penn State 10·4·8 T·20 24 Northwestern 15·6·2 NR 25 Saint Louis 9·8·1 NR 

around the dial 
·LITTLE LEAGUE WORLD SERIES Asia vs. Canada 3 p.m., ESPN West vs. Southeast 7:30p.m., ESPN 
MLB 
Toronto at New York 7 p.m., ESPN 2 
NHL 


Associated Press 

ATLANTA -The Atlanta Thrashers traded former NIIL rookie of the year Dany Heatley· to the Ottawa Senators for Marian Ilossa on Tuesday, a blockbuster deal requested by lloatley loss than two years after he was blamed for a wreck that killed a teammate. 
The teams swapped high-scoring right wingors on the same day Hossa agreed to a thrllo-year, $18 million contract with the Senators, avoiding salary arbitration. 
The 24-year-old Heatley combined with llya Kovalchuk to give the Thrashers two of the NHCs most prized young players. Bossa led the Senators with 36 goals and 46 assists in 2003-04, the last season before the lockout. 
The Thrashers also received defenseman Greg de Vries. 
Heatley's best season was 2002-03, when he had 41 goals and 48 assists. lie has been plagued by mis­fortune since then. most tragically when he was driving a car involved in a 
high-speed  crash  that  
killed  teammate  Dan  
Snyder.  



Gates inks contract with San 
Diego 

SAN DIEGO -The Antonio Gatos saga took another surprising turn Tuesday when the All-Pro tight end agreed to a six-year eontraet with the San Diego Chargers. 
Despite getting the long-term deal he wanted. Gates still has to sit out the final two exhibition games and the season-opener against Dallas on Sept. 
11. his punishment f'or missing a team-imposed deadline for reporting to training camp. 
Financial details weren't immedi­ately available, but it appeared that Gatos' side had to mako concessions. Gates wanted to be paid among the top tight ends in the league and was seeking a deal worth between $4 mil­lion and $5 million a season. 
At one point, his agent reportedly was seeking a three-year deal, which would have allowed him to become an unrestricted free agent quicker. The Chargers balked at giving him the chance to do so. 
Heatley went to thn Thrashers a couple of weeks ago and requested tho trade. 
"Over the course of time, we experienced some unfortunate incidents and encountered some chal­lenging issues," his agent, Stacey McAlpine. said in a telephone interview from Calgary. "I think it was a combination of several things that slowly. over time, led us to the decision that it might be in every­body's best interests to work together to try to lind a new opportunity. a new homo, a new place to play." 
Thrashers general man­
ager Don Waddell said lw could undnrstand lleatley's desire to play in anothnr city. 
"Tlw emotions that went with the accident ... driv­ing by the place wlwre the accidnnt happened and being rernindnd of it," Waddell said. "Obviously we have 37. Dan Snyc!Pr's number, in our building. All of that led to Dany believing hn needed a fresh start." 
McAlpine said the con­tract negotiations wen~ not a major factor. lleatley, a restricted free agent. promptly signed a nnw thrnn-ynar contract with Ottawa. 
Alex Smith benched for sea­
son opener 
SAN FHANCISCO -Alex Smith will begin his first NFL season on the San Francisco bench. 
After struggling in both of his pre­season starts, Smith was told Tuesday by coach Mike Nolan that Tim Rattay will open the season at quarterback against St. Louis. 
"I know how this works," said Smith, the top overall pick in this year's draft. 
"This is a team game. This isn't all about me. 
"I think the team wants to win now. Wn expect to win now, and as of right now, this looks like tho right decision. 
"Hopefully, I keep getting better and keep pushing it. Who knows what happens in the future, but right now. I understand it." 
While Smith looked befuddled in going 5-for-16 for 43 yards without a touchdown pass in the first two games, Hattay was 13-of-19 for 194 yards and three TDs. 

Davenport regains winning
form 
NEW IIAVI~N. Conn. -Lindsay Davenport easily won her 11rst full match since losing to Venus Williams at Wimbledon, beating the Cznd1 Hopublie's Kveta Posehke 6-4. (J-1 on Tuesday night in tlw Pilot Pen tourna­ment. 
Davenport. who lost tho world's top ranking Monday al'tor missing several weeks because of a baek injury. appeared con fidnn t in the sneond­round match. 
The top-seeded Davenport is using the event as a tuneup for the U.S. Open next wePk. 
Peschke stayed close for much of' the l'irst set, but Davenport broke serve to go up 5-4. dosed out the set and went on to dominate the seeond sot. 
It was only Davnnport's seeond appearance sinee Wimbledon. Slw pulled out of tho Bank of tho West Classic last month in the lirst set. of' her opening match. 

-------~---------­

' ­
..--------------------------------------------------­
~ 
Wednesday, August 24, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
I 
I 
I 
i 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Holtz and Bradshaw­headline Harris voters 
Former Irish coach among 114 members of BCS ranking poll 
Associated Press 
Terry Bradshaw, Lou lloltz, Stove Largent and Anthony Munoz are among the 114 pan­elists voting in a new poll the Bowl Championship Series will use this season to determine which teams play in college foot­ball's four major bowls, includ­ing the national title game. 
The Harris Interactive College Football Poll panel is comprised of former college football play­ers, coaches and administrators, plus some media members. The names of its voters were released Monday. 
"Harris Interactive has been diligent in creating a voting panel that is balanced, statisti­cally valid, and representative of all 1-A conferences and inde­pendents," BCS coordinator and Big 12 Conferenee eommissioner Kevin Weiberg said in a state­ment. 
Tho Harris Poll replaces The Associated Press Top 25 media poll as one of three components in the BCS standings. The USA Today eoaehes' poll and a com­pilation of six computer rank­ings make up the other two­thirds of a team's BCS grade. 
The AP poll had been used by the BCS since its inception in 1998, but after last season the AP asked BCS offieials to stop using its rankings in their for­mula. 
ESPN pulled its afliliation to the eoaehes poll after last sea­son. 
The Harris panel has numer­ous big names on it, inducting NFL Hall of Famers Bradshaw, Largent and Munoz. 
Bradshaw played at Louisiana Tech. Munoz was an All­American tackle at USC. Largent played for Tulsa. 
lloltz retired from coaching last season, leaving South Carolina. He also made success­ful stops at Arkansas, Minnesota and Notre Dame. 
Among the other former play­ers voting in the Harris Poll are Hocket Ismail, Boomer Esiason, Don Maynard, Lee Hoy Selmon and Craig Morton. 
Spike Dykes, Gerry DiNardo and Foge Fazio are among the former eoaches taking part in the poll. 
Former Southeastern Conference commissioner Hoy Kramer, whose effort was piv­otal in forming the BCS, will also be a Harris poll voter. 
The 114-member panel was selected by Harris Interactive Inc., a marketing firm hired by the BCS, out of a group of more than 300 nominations supplied by the Division 1-A eonferences and Notre Dame. 
The voters were ehosen to give equal representation to all 11 conferences. 
The first Harris poll will be released Sept. 25, four weeks into the college football regular season. Barris poll voters will not be required to make their ballots public until the final poll Dec. 5. 
Voters in the coaches' poll agreed for the first time to release their final ballots this season. 

FOOTBALL 

Three vvalk-ons earn scholarships 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Senior cornerback Brandon Harris, senior wide receiver Hob Woods and junior defensive lineman Casey Cullen have been awarded scholarships for this school year, Irish coach Charlie Weis announced Monday. 
Weis rewarded the trio ­who all came to Notre Dame as walk-ons -for representing "everything Notre Dame stands for on and ofJthe field." 
"I went and researched grade point average, looked at char­acter, saw if they were ever in any trouble with the University," Weis said. "What I didn't want to do was give away a $40,000 or $50,000 scholar­ship to someone who has been in a bunch of trouble." 
Weis was impressed by their effort, noting that they are all strong students. Woods holds a 3.95 GPA in Ae rosp ace/Mechanical Engineering and played in three games last year. 
"He might not be the greatest athlete in this world," Weis said of Woods. "But you get a bunch of guys on your team with that type of heart and intelligence and work ethic that play them­selves into the mix because they're overachievers, not underachievers -that's the type of guy you want on your team." 
Weis also raved about Harris, who came to Notn~ Dame on a partial music scholarship and participates in the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra. 
"I told [Harris] he can take that partial music scholarship and throw that baby away because I'm picking up the tab this year," Weis said. "I thought he would be the right type of guy, the Notre Dame type of guy that earns his way to a scholar­ship." 
Cullen has never played in a game going into his third year on the team. However, Weis noted his desire and work ethic has helped him become a 'core' player on the Irish special teams. 
"U-Ie's a] guy that day-in and day-out has been impossible for anyone to block or to stop," Weis said. 
Notes: 
+ 
Notre Dame Stadium turns 75 this year and the structure is currently being decorated to celebrate its anniversary. Sponsored by the Monogram Club, banners commemorating great moments in Irish football history are being hung in the stadium eoncourso, from light poles in the Joyce Center park­ing lots and in the tunnel lead­ing to the field. 

+ 
Notre Dame freshmen foot­ball players met with the media Monday afternoon for the lirst time since arriving on campus. They spoke at the Guglielmino Athletics Complex about how they're adjusting from the high school game to Division I col­lege football. 


"''ve learned that you have to go 100 percent on every play," fullback Asaph Schwapp said. "The speed of the game lis dif­ferent!. There's also better competition. I'm not used to having that in high sehool." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Huggins given 24 hours to quit 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI -Bob Huggins was ordered Tuesday to resign as Cincinnati's basketball coach or he'll be tired, the culmination of a power struggle with the school president. 
In a letter faxed to his lawyer 


Welcome Back! Decorate that Room with Your State Flag 
Beautiful Nylon 3'x5' $40.00 with Free Shipping 2'x3' Nylon $32.00 with Free Shipping (Oregon, Washington and Territories slightly higher) 
To Order: Tom.Campbell@ FlyThem.com 
Tom, an NO Graduate, is President of Flagpoles&Fiags Co. 
by the university, Huggins was given 24 hours to resign and accept a financial compensation package worth almost $3 mil­lion. If he doesn't respond by 2 
p.m. Wednesday, he will be flred, the letter said. 
The 51-year-old coach was traveling and had not seen the letter, lawyer Richard Katz said. 
Athletic director Bob Goin, one of Huggins' most loyal sup­porters over the years, said he backed the decision. 
"It's time for the university to move on," Goin said. "We've reached an impasse." 
Huggins has won more games than any other coach at Cincinnati, but his tenure also has been marked by player arrests, poor graduation rates and NCAA rules violations that landed the school on probation. 
His arrest for drunken driving last year upset new sehool pres­ident Naney Zimpher. Huggins was plaeed on unpaid leave over the summer, but returned and coached last season. 
GMATReview 6 Wednesdays September 7to October 12 6-10 p.m. $395 


English for Speakers of Other Languages 10 Mondays September 12 -November 4 7 -9:30 p.m. $228 
Mention this ad and get a 5% discount. Also, coming in October, GRE Review and LSAT Review, call for more information 
Division of Extended Learning Services I U South Bend 
Call 574-520-4261 to enroll or visit www.iusb.edu/-cted 
page 22 
NCAA 
Seminoles axed from NCAA banned list 
FS U wins its appeal to new guidelines on Indian nicknames 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. -The NCAA will allow Florida State to use its Seminoles nickname in postseason play, removing the school from a list of col­leges with American Indian nicknames that were restrict­ed by an NCAA decision earlier this month. 
The NCAA said it was recog­nizing the relationship Florida State has lorig enjoyed with the Seminole Tribe of Florida, which assists the university with its pageantry and cele­bration of its culture and sup­ports the school's usc of its name. 
"The staff review committee noted the unique relationship between the university and the Seminole Trib~;J of 
alumni and friends of the NCAA decision. 
"I don't think anything has brought them together quite as much as this," said Wetherell. "Whether you're a Gator, Hurricane or Bulldog, those entities believe it's a Florida decision." 
Gov. Jeb Bush also applaud­ed the NCAA's reversal. 
"When you make a mistake it's important to realize it and move on," Bush said. "They came to the right conclusion ... the Seminole mascot and the tradition at Florida State is not offensive to anyone." 
The NCAA said it would han­dle reviews from other schools on a case-by-case basis. The Illinois Fighting Illini, Utah Utes and North Dakota Fighting Sioux are among other prominent school nick­names that remain affected by the edict. 
Utah athletic director Chris Hill said the school is expect­ing a similar rul­

Florida as a sig­"They came to the ing on its appeal. nificant factor," The university is
right conclusion .·.. the

NCAA senior vice working on its 
president Seminole mascot and appeal with the Bernard Franklin the tradition at Ute tribe and it said in a state­should be filed
Florida State is not 

ment released within a week or 
Tuesday. offensive to anyone.'' two, he said. "The decision "We want to do of a namesake it as fast as possi­
Jeb Bush 

sovereign tribe, ble, but we want
Florida Governor 

regarding when and how its name and imagery can be used, must be respected even when others may not agree." 
Florida State president T.K. Wetherell had threatened to sue the NCAA immediately after its Aug. 5 announcement that the school's highly visible nickname, "Seminoles," was defined as "hostile and abu­sive" by a committee. 
"The two things we request­ed in our appeal were grant­ed," Wetherell said. ''I'm ready to play football, start school and have classes begin and all that kind of stuff." 
Lee Hinkle, vice president for university relations, said the school e-mailed 250,000 to do everything 
thorough," Hill said. "We felt all along that we would get a favorable ruling." 
Under the NCAA restrictions, teams with American Indian nicknames would not be able to display them on uniforms or have their mascots perform in postseason tournaments. 
"The NCAA remains commit­ted to ensuring an atmosphere of respect and sensitivity for all who participate in and attend our championships," Franklin said in the statement. 
Wetherell said he has had some contact with the other schools. 
"I think they [NCAA] under­stand, there will be other requests," Wetherell said. 

RESTAURANT 
Now Hiring Experienced Server Apply in Person 
211 N. Main St. Downtown South Bend 
232~4445 
www. SiamThaiSouthBend .com 

Wednesday, August 24, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 


N D students·: 

n a Fre tu ent hecking ace unt 
Ill! 

an rece1ve a free t-shirt.* 

With features like free Online Banking, a free CheckCard and plenty of ATM locations, a National City Free Student Checking account simplifies your financial life. And now it gives you one more reason to put off doing the laundry. NO students, open a Free Student Checking account at one of the branches listed below and receive a free t-shirt. Hurry in. Limited-time offer. 

SOUTH BEND CE~HF~AL DENDIX ·11 0 North Lafc,yette ~7977 Cleveland Hd. 1044 Bendix Dr. 57.:1·--~~~37··-4 7:'3~3 574--2~i?--46H5 574 237 -4660 
·Gift offer applies only to new rree Student Checking accounts opened with money not on deposit at National City. Limit one gift per household, while supplies last CS-18725··UND·V1 Member FDIC • ©2005, National City Corporation" 
Wednesday, August 24, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
CYCLING 
French paper accuses Armstong of using EPO 
American cyclist vehemently denies report, calling it a 'witch hunt' 
Associated Press 
1'/\HIS -Faced with ynt anotlwr rnport that ho dwatnd his way to a Tour de France victory, Lance Armstrong rnspondnd Tuesday tlw same way lw has since the doping whispers bngan during the lirst of his snvnn straight wins: 'T nPvnr took pnrl'ormance Pnhaneing drugs." 
In a four-page article head­linnd "Thn Armstrong I.in," the French sports daily L'Equipe printed copies of documents suggesting six urinn samples lw providnd during his first championship in l 999 tested positivn for the red blood cell­booster erythropoiotin, or EPO. 
The drug was on tho list of' banned substances at the timo hut thorn was no effective test to detect it. 
Tour de France director 
Jean-Marie Leblanc said the report published Tuesday appPared "credible" and metic­ulously researched, adding that Armstrong must have a chance to rebut the claims. 
"We are very shocked, very troubled by the revelations we read this morning," Leblanc told HTL radio. 
Armstrong, a frequent target of' L'Equipe, vehemently denied the allngations. 
"Unfortunately, the witch hunt continuos and tomorrow's article is nothing short of' tabloid journalism," Armstrong wrote on his Web site. "I will simply restate what I have said many times: I have never taken performance-enhancing drugs." 
The allegations surfaced seven years later because EPO tests on the 1999 samples were carried out only last year when 
Are you an art major? Can you draw well? Interested in·getting paid for your art? 
Viewpoint is lookipg for Illustrators. Please contact Sarah Vabulas at viewpoint.1 @ nd.edu 

scientists at a lab outside Paris used them for research to per-. feet EPO testing. The national anti-doping laboratory in Chatenay-Malabry said it promised to hand its linding to the World 1\nti-Doping 1\gency, provided they were nover used to penalize riders. 
L'Equipe's investigation was based on urine B samples ­the second of two samples used in doping tests. The A batch was used in 1999 for analysis at the time. Without those sam­ples, any disciplinary action against Armstrong would be impossible, French Sports Minister Jean-Francois Lamour said. 
The governing body of world cycling did not begin using a urine test for EPO until 2001, though it was banned in 1990. For years, it had been impossi­ble to detect the drug, which builds endurance by boosting the production of oxygen-rich red blood cells. 
Jacques de Ceaurriz, the head of France's anti-doping laboratory, which developed the EPO urine test, told Europe-1 radio that at least 15 urine samples from the 1999 Tour had tested positive for EPO. 
Separately, the lab said it could not confirm that the pos­itive results were Armstrong's. It noted that the samples were anonymous, bearing only a six­digit number to identify the rider, and could not be matched with the name of any one cyclist. 
However, L'Equipe said it was able to make the match. 
on· one side of the page, it showed what it claimed were the results of EPO tests from anonymous riders used for lab research. On the other, it showed Armstrong's medical certificates, signed by doctors and riders after doping tests ­and bearing the same identify­ing number printed on the results. 
"lt will be very interesting to see what UCI does and what the U.S. Cycling Federation does and what Lance Armstrong has to say," WADA chairman Dick Pound said. "If' the evidence is seen as credible then, yes, he has an obligation to come forward and specifi­cally give his comments, espe­cially after his previous com­ments that he has never used drugs. 
"If anything were found, Wfl couldn't do anything because we didn't even exist in 1999. But it's important that the truth must always be made clear," Pound added. 
Representatives for Armstrong said he was in Austin, Texas, where he lives and did not wish to comment beyond the statement on his Web site. 
A year before Armstrong won his first Tour title, the race faced its worst doping scandal after police caught a Festina team employee with a stash of drugs. Hiders were ejeeted and others quit, almost foreing the Tour to collapse. 
Armstrong ha·s been dogged by questions in the French media about how somnone whose testicular cancer had spread to his lungs and brain could rise to the top of one of the most grueling sporting events in the world. 
Armstrong angrily appeared at a news conference ·that year to explain that trace amounts of cortisone found in his sys­tem were from a prescription skin cream to treat saddle sores. 



The following year, /\rmstrong and his U.S. Postal Service team became the sub­ject of a French investigation into whether tlwy used banned substances during the 2000 race. The probe was closed in 2002 for laek of evidence. 
L'Equipn, whose parent com­pany is elosely linked to the Tour, often questioned Armstrong's clean record and frequently took jabs at him ­portraying him as to.o arro­gant, too corporate and too good to be for real. 
"Never to such an extent, probably, has the depart~Jre of a champion been welcomed with sueh widespread relief'," the paper gripnd the day al'ter Armstrong's rncord sevnnth straight win. 
;\ f'ormnr L'Equipe journalist, Pierre Ballester, was co-author of' a book published last year that contained doping allega­tions against Armstrong. lie wrote "L./\. Confidential, thn Secrets of' Lance Armstrong" with Tlw Sunday Times sports­writer David Walsh. 
In tho book, one of Armstrong's former assistants eIa i m 11(1 t h at t h n A m e r ic. a n onen asked lwr to dispose of \!sed syringes and givn him m a kn u p to eo n eo a I IHHHI I n marks on his arms. 
Armstrong has taknn lilwl action against The Sunday Times after the British news­paper reprinted allegations in a revinw of tho book in .Juno 2004. Tho ease is to go to trial in London's lligh Court in Nov1Hnber. 
Vietor llugo l'ena, Armstrong's former U.S. Postal Serviee teammate, said the French wore bad losers who could rHWIH aeeept his supremaey on the Tour. 




~~d~~ 
"Area's largest selection'' 
rcu~t ~nit ~le 
Only one mile from Campus! East Bank Emporium Restaurant Building 121 S. Niles (a Jefferson, downtown South Bend (574) 232-M&l!. Hours: Mon.-Sat. 10 • 6 

page 24 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, August 24, 2005 


with a new coaching staff. my office at noon,"' Weis said. ended Notre Dame in the 1939­
Wide receiver Matt Shelton "They walked in at noon and 40 academic year and has been particularly there were some a longtime contributor to the approves of the burgers and University. practice locker dogs out on the He was recognized as an
"It's going to bring 

room, since the grill. They didn't honorary alumnus in 1996 and
back a certain

team will no longer dislike me too inducted into the Notre Dame be walking into the mystique to the much at that National Monogram Club after stadium daily. stadium." time." his death on May 31, 2001. 
"I think by having The center The University broke ground the locker room was underwrit­on construction of the 
Matt Shelton

over here and not ten with a gift Guglielmino Athletics Complex being over at the Irish wide receiver from the late in November 2003. stadium as much. Don F. Gugl­it's going to bring ielmino and his 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu

back a certain mystique to the wife, Flora. Guglielmino att­stadium," Shelton said. 
At the greeting area inside the front doors, a player has access ahead to a 3,SOO­square-foot, 150-seat auditori­um for team meetings, film watching and other purposes. 
Down a hallway to the left, wall-to-ceiling windows pro­vide a viewing area of the Haggar Fitness Center, where the "Gug" and the Loftus Sports Center share 25,000 square feet of strength and conditioning space, a three­lane track, a 40-yard Prestige Turf athletic surface for team workouts and strength coach­es' offices. 
All 25 of Notre Dame's other varsity sports will use the weight facilities and auditori­um as well. 
The rest of the building includes an 8,260-square-foot sports medicine facility, team meeting rooms with high-tech video and technology systems and even an indoor area to hold team buses in inclement weather. 
And as the new coaching staff gets acclimated to improved facilities for training, conditioning and coaching, areas like Weis' balcony can also serve other purposes ­like staff bonding, for example. 


dine drink + be stylish 
Atruly unique dining and drinking 
•

experience, 
featuring a creative blend of fusion style culinary delights with a delicate touch of Asian flavors in an exciting yet intimate setting. 
Plus, a stylish and contemporary fusion martini bar. 
Just one block away from Morris Performing Arts Center. 


Wednesday, August 24, 200'5 The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
MEN's SoccER 

Irish stars lead skilled team 

Lobos 
continued from page 28 
foot-6 junior who started in goal for the Irish, neednd all of his length as he dove and knocked down the ball for the save. 
Fifteen minutes later. tho Lobos finally eapitalized on an opportuni­ty. Matt Wootton sent a laser shot past Cahill to put New Mexieo in front 1-0. 
"It was a hell of a goa.! that was hit," Clark said. "So I don't think we can blame [Cahill!. It was a boost from the play of frnshman Ja1:k Traynor. Clark insnrtnd the dnlimder into tho lineup in the snc­ond half, and hn pnrliwnwd like a vnteran. 

"I In wa"i supnrb," Clark said. "lie looked like he'd bonn playing thorn limwnr. I wa'i vnry, vnry imprns."i1~d with Jaek." 
The entin~ Irish delimsn turnt~d in a strong pnrfornmnen. Alter los­ing ia<;t sea'>on's standout dnlimd­ers Jaek Stewart and Kevin Goldthwaite to the MU; dral't, the team is faced with tim problem of replacing two of the nation's top players. Miller, sen­ior tri-captain Dale 
By KATE GALES 
A~,ocial<' Spom Ediwr 
Tlw Irish haw concerns. Tlwy must rncoup from t.lw loss of a stnrling ddimsn, but Notrn I>anw also hw.; vntnra.ns who -a.."i they shownd on Sundav -ean load t.lw team. · 
LPading tlw park arn Greg Dalby and lan Hlwrinhrton, two of tlw men's socenr tnam's most visi­hll' playm·s. Both wen~ nanwd prnsPason All-Big East players, with I >alby garnnring an addition­al nod <L'> a sm:ond-tnam prnsna­son AII-Amnrinm. 
But. both playms arP quick to redired attention from thnm­sdvns to the team, from lbeus on preseason awards to tho tmtm's goals for tlw smL'>On. 
"I think wn showed tonight we havn a great tnam," Dalby said al'tt~r Sunday's preseason exhibi­tion mateh against No. () New Mnxico. which ended in a 1-1 tie. "It just shows that there's loL"i to bP exdted about tl1is year." 
If Dalby won't say it. his aeeom­plishmenL'> speak lilr themsdves. An int11gral part of the team's nxdtnnwnt for the year is fueled by Dalby's play. One of three unanimous pil:ks to the proseason team and a returning Second Tt~arn All-Big l·:ast player, Dalby honPd his skills in the oll~smL"iOn, captaining the national Under-20 team in int«~rnational play. 
llnarl'i stoppml at Alumni Field on Sunday wlwn the defensive «:enter midliddnr went down with an injury. although prnUminary X­r~tys showed no damage. 
"What he eontributns, lw con­tributes in so many ot.hnr ways," coach Bobby Clark said. "lin's a dass kid, lw's just sueh a matum lnadnr ... hopd'ully he's going to be lit and llosing time due to injury is I not a question, hopefully wn got him as a player and m; a leader." 
The team views Dalby as a leader and voted him one of their tlm~e eaptains !br tl1e coming sea­son. 
"I think I'm a leader on the team that I lead by example, bringing experience to the table -I'm a simple player," he said. 
In addition, he values the importanee of attitude and the way the team's attitude reflects his own. 
Etherin~-,rton was named to the third tnam All-Big Ea'>t after the 2004 Irish eampaign, which eul­minated in the regular-season confnrence championship. Although the o!limse struggled at times, he tied for the honor of tmun-points leader with eleven, induding a team-high five a"isisL"i. 
"My attitude L"i I only have two morn years loll and I'm going to takn every ounee of it," Etlwrington said. "My attitude goes along with our teams atti­tude, we're going to work hard every praetiee, we go there and we're going to work our butts ofT... we're going to try our best in every game, in every praetiee and we're going to try to be a more tougher team this year." 


The team-first attitude is retleeted in Etherington's take on his pmsea<;on honors. 
"IC was a big aecomplishment this year for me, I thought to got announeed as First Team Big East," he said. "I gotta give my teammates eredit, I wouldn't be there if my team didn't do well. If your team does well other players get rewarded lor that." 
Despite Dalby leaving Sunday's game on erutches and the unenr­tainty that lies ahead, the Irish am optimistie with their ehanees fbr this season, and no one knows that hotter than their preseason honorees. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
crack of a shot." "We came out Hella"i and Traynor Cahill and the all did a solid job ol' 
much different in
Irish defense held limiting the New New Mexico at bay the second half We Mexico attack. for the rest of the really took it to The Irish are also half. A markedly foreed to replaefl
them and played
dillerent Irish team la"it year's first team then took eontrol. All-American goal­
with more "We came out confidence." kenper Chris mueh different in Sawyer. Clark has the seeond half," not yet dndded who
Ryan Miller
Miller said. "We will be tho starter in 
Irish defender 
really took it to goal, but Cahill <md 
them and played with more confidence." 
In the 12th minute of thr soeond, Miller headed in a terrilie pass from midfielder Natn Norman to nv1m the game at one goal apinen. Miller gave Norman most of the credit lor the score. 
"Natfl just put a great ball in and all I really had to do was put a head on it," Miller said. 
Aftor the play, Cahill was rnplaced in goal by sonior kneper Justin Miehaud. The Irish contin­ued to press the Lobos through the rest of regulation but eould not muster another goal. 
Notre Dame received a large Miehaud naeh 

played wnll in tlw sn<L"ion debut. Botl1 keepers rncord­nd thrnn savos, with Cahill allowing tho one goal. 
Notre Damn did sulli•r one s11t­baek early in tlw game. Twnnty­livn minutes in, junior tri-eaptain Greg Dalby wont down with an injury and did not return. Thn mid­linldnr's status is ynt to bn dntnr­milwd. 
Notw Dmnn's lli'Xt match comes Sunday, with t.lw Irish travnling to Ann Arbor to take on Mi1:higan. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 
FITN6SS Sohedu.Le 
FRU '05 
~~ 

R.SR.C AR.:t 115 4:15-5:00 PILATES (8/29-10/10) M $28 116 4:15-5:00 PILATES (8/31-10/12) w $28 117 5:30-6:30 CARDIOBOX MWF $46 118 6:45-8:15 INST. TRAIN (ends 11/7 ) M $25 119 12:10-12:50 YOGA (8/30-10/11) T $25 120 12:10-12:50 YO/PIL FUSION (9/1-1 0/13) Th $25 121 5:30-6:30 CARDIO SCULPT TTh $32 122 4:15-5:30 CARDIO SCULPT Su $15 123 5:40-6:00 ALLABS Su $13 
R.SR.CA&2. 
124 12:15-12:45 CARDIO SCULPT(ends 12/21)MWF $46 
125 4:15-5:15 STEP II MW $32 
126 5:30-6:15 FLEX N'TONE MW $32 
127 6:30-7:15am BOOT CAMP MTh $32 
128 7:30-.6:30am CARDIO SCULPT Tih $32 
129 12:15-12:45 FLEX N'TONE Tih $30 
130 4:15-5:15 YOGA (9/1-10/13) Th $28 
131 5:30-6:30 MULTI STEP Tih $32 
RQC.f(.:?/.)5 
132 4:15-5:15 YOGA (8/29-10/10) M $28 
133 5:30-6:45 YOGA (8/29-1 011 0) M $32 
134 5:15-6:30 YOGA (8/31-10/12) w $32 
135 5:30-6:15 ARMS, ABS, N'GLUTES Tih $32 
136 6:45-7:45 CARDIOBOX Tih $32 
137 4:00-5:00 PILATES (9/4-1 0/9) Su $24 
BQC.J<.:10 138 5:30-6:20 TAl CHI (8129-11/7) M $40 
R.OCic:.l::f~ 1>001.: 
139 5:30-6:15 AQUACISE (ends 12/16) MWF $43 
R.6c:f!SI"RATION 

Thursday, August 25, 7:30am in theRolfs Sports Recreation Center 
MUST HAVE ID 

K
• 
Payment (cash or checks only) is due at the time of registration. 

• 
An individual may register a maximum of 3 people. 

• 
Schedule is subject to change. 


• 
Call1-6100 with questions or visit www.recsports.nd.edu. 



Wednesday, August 24, 2005 
page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
players in Weis' first full recruit­Despite the April 14 commit­ing class, and with 12 committed ment of quarterback Zach


McNeil 

before the first game of the 2005 Frazer-the No. 11 quarter­continued from page 28 season, Notre Dame is off to a back in the nation according to good start, Frank said. Scout.com -Frank does not three cornerbacks in this class." "Notre Dame has more expect Jones to switch positions 
The Mocksville, N.C. product recruits right now than the ·vast when he arrives on campus next garnered three out of a possible majority of schools," Frank said. year. five stars by Scout.com. Clocked "But they also have a lot to get "[Jones] might not be as pol­at 4.40 in the this year. [The ished as Frazer, as far as forty-yard dash, large number of mechanics go," Frank said. "But McNeil intercepted "Notre Dame has verbals so far] he throws the ball quite a bit in five passes and means they're high school. He'll get every
more recruits right 

tallied 60 tackles landing the top opportunity to play quarterback. in his junior sea­now than the vast guys they're He can make a lot of things hap­son at Davie majority of recruiting. These pen ifyou get him on the field." County High players are very Schmidt, the No. 17 running
schools."

School. high on their list." back in the nation according to 
"He's a true cor­One such high­Scout.com, is the third running ner, a big corner­Mike Frank ly-touted recruit back to verbally commit to Notre back," Frank said. lrisheyes.com is quarterback Dame. Frank said Schmidt and "He's got very Demetrius Jones. fellow Irish running back ver­good lateral move-The 6-foot-3, 190-bals James Aldridge and Munir ment. His high school uses him a pound prospect out of Morgan Prince are the top three ball-car­lot in the return game, and I Park High School in Chicago rier prospects on the Notre think Notre Dame will probably chose the Irish over Illinois. Last Dame coaching staffs list. try him as a returner as well. season as a junior he threw for He's got that kind of ability and 2,300 yards and 25 touchdowns 
Contact Mike Gilloon at
burst in the return game." while rushing for 1,100 yards 

mgill_oon@nd.edu
The Irish intend to sign 25 and 18 touchdowns. 
CONTINUING WINNING WAYS EARLY ON 


GEOFF MATTESON/The Observer Irish freshman Brittany Bock, center, receives a pass in practice on Aug. 16. Bock helped lead Notre Dame to two preseason wins, including a 2-0 win over No. 4 Virginia on Aug. 18. 
The Irish defense helped the offense kept the lead, allowing

Bock 

just seven shots all game. Goalkeeper Erika Bohn delivered
continued from page 28 

a solid performance, saving all three Cavalier shots on goal. Itassisted on the goal. 
was a strong outing for the IrishButler's Meredith Buemi evened defense, after stifling the Butlerthe score at 1-1 15 minutes later, offense four daysbut that proved to earlier.
be the only offense 

Hanks was
the Bulldogs could "It was good to get happy with the mount. 
out there and get a team's perform­
The Irish played ance as well as her

game under our
exceptional 

own. She said the
defense, surrender­belts.'' was
offenseing just three shots crisper and work­on goal in 90 min­Kerry Hanks ing better together. 

utes of action. 

''I'm glad we got
Irish forward 
The Irish retook to play Virginiathe lead in the sec-

because I thinkond period, as 
that was the bestsophomore Susan Pinnick exhibition game there was allmarked a goal in the lower left year," she said. 
corner. 

And they played 
Hanks finished 

up to the competi­the scoring at 89:30 tion.
''I'm glad we got to
with a rebound goal "We were muchoff Bock's final shot. play Virginia 

better than we
Although the 

because I think were against
margin of victory Butler," Hanks

that was the best 
was great, Hanks 
said.

felt that the team exhibition game 
Now, though,
could have played there was all year. " Hanks,better. 
Thorlakson, Bock"It wasn't the best and the rest of the 
Kerry Hanks 
game all of us 

Irish have to hone
played," she said, Irish forward 
their skills for the"but it was good to first regular-sea­
get out there and . 
son match of the year. 
get a game under our belts." 

On Friday, the Irish travel to Vermont to face New Hampshire
Notre Dame 2, Virginia 0 
to begin their quest of a repeat.

In the IPFW Showcase in Fort While "it's on our minds -weWayne, Ind., Katie Thorlakson want to repeat," Hanks said, the once again gave the Irish an early team "cannot [look] at the big pic­
lead against No.4-ranked 

ture." They just take it "one game Virginia. 
at a time."
Kerri Hanks served a pass to For the first two, so far so good.

the right side of the box, where Thorlakson received and shot to Contact Ken Fowler at the lower left corner. kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
r------------------------------------------------------------------------­

Watch all ND Games -Most and
2046 South Bend Ave 

largest Screens in Town
·Across from Martins Plaza 

Never a cover with Student ID
272-1766 

GO IRISH 
MONDAY All food 1/2 price, $10.00 buckets, Monday Night Football on HDTV 

TUESDAY ND penny night, S1 off cover with student ID, DJ all night, 1¢. wells and drafts 
WEDNESDAY Live trivia night with cash prizes and free drinks, 1 to 8 people per team, 8:00 p.m. to 10:.00 p.m. Defending champs: ND law Legal Eagles. 69¢. bitty burger, 49¢. wings, S1 0. 00 buckets 
THURSDAY 2nd Penny night. 1¢. wells and drafts, DJ plays hits all night long 
FRIDAY DJ till 3:00a.m., pre-game warm up 
SATURDAY Game day-Go IRISH. DJ after games, celebrate victory and boogie till dawn. ESPN game plan 
SUNDAY $1.5"0 burgers, dogs, fri~s and bottles. NFL Sunday tickets -14 screens. 
--------------------------------------------·----------------------------­
Wednesday, August 24, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ERIK POWERS AND ALEC WHITE
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 

HENRI ARNOLD


JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
CASHO 
1 



rJ b
(Q2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
INFEK 
1 
rJ t
DUBACT J 
J rx I I 
www.jumble.com 
~ TIGRUD 



IIJ II 
Ans: 

ITr I I Jrn·l I I I I I J' 
(Answers tomorrow) , I Jumbles: LUSTY CURVE ABSORB FACADE 
Yesterday s Answer: What the golfing admiral did when it began rain­ing-STAYED THE COURSE 


WHY THE: 5 TUDE:NT DR.OPPE:D THE: HISTDR.Y C.L-A55. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Baby 64 In _ (where kangaroo's found)

1 Op-ed piece 
nickname for 
65 Govt. disaster 

6 "Huh?" mom's pouch? 
relief org. 10 Something to 39 Ditch 66 Mowed path haggle over 40 Four for the road 67 Tugboat sound 14 India's first P.M. 41 Old Italian 68 Opening for money Vegas
15 Plotter in a play 42 How a high-69 Home of the
16 Call from the pitched weasel Lyndon B. 
nursery 
goes? Johnson Space 17 No longer carry Center
44 SqualidFolgers or 

45 Uranus' domain 

Maxwell House? 
DOWN
46 Address starting 

20 "Uncle Tom's 1 Over http://Cabin" girl 2 Wait on
47 Provider of the

21 Aid and 
first bone 3 Underwater 22 Giving off light transplant? sandbank 49 Varieties 4 Dadaist Jean 
23 X out 51 Rebuttal to "No, 5 Seat of ancient 25 Soup base 
you're not" Mayan 27 Prisoner's tally civilization
55 Eyed food 

on a cell wall 6 Lois, to Hi58 Cogitate, with 
29 -Ia-Ia 7 Sword handles
uon" aTime of one's

30 Belly muscles 60 Overmodest 
life 33 True 61 Oasis store? 
9 Jumps on the ice 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS P-=UZ-r:Z:-~L-:-ET:"I 10 Great big kiss 
11 Aftermath d*.±;.t 12 "So be it" 

h;; splitting? 18 What a hypnotist may tell you to do 
~~m~~~~ 19 A lot of, slangily ..:; 24 Outer limits 26 City in a classic !U~~·••mm~1]1~:-l railroad name 

1"!!"'1111!""1--:+:::-28 Safeguard 
-=+=+:=+::-~ 30 Similar (to) 31 Shipping hazard 

WILLSHORTZ 

~m~~~--~~[!~:+:::.._._. 13 Result of hair-

32 Corset stiffener  43 Andean capital  54 Old stories  
33 Skiers' paradise 34 "Hey, over here!"  44 Life jacket 48 Turned blue, maybe  55 "Hey, over here!" 56 Buckeye State  
35 Cosby/Gulp TV series  49 Not working 50 Dolt  57 Emerald City visitor  
37 _  pro nobis  52 Mountaineer's tool  59 Incubate 62 Aviv  
38 Simoleons  53 View in an  63 Neighbor of  
40 Freeway exits  angiogram  Norw.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554 . Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST



HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Nicole Bobek, 2X: Shelley Long, 56: Barbara Eden, 71: Jay Mohr, 35 
Happy Birthday: This year, realize that you can't change the world around you, but you can change your world. Consider what you really want and make the adjustments required to follow that path. You will have more energy, so channel it toward your goals. Your numbers arc 15, 16, 21, 24, 38. 44 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Don'tlet anger get the better of you. Patience and virtue will count today. II" you arc cool and observant, you will gain ground and win in the end. Be wise. *** TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): Don't disagree with anyone today. Do things with the people you know best. not with colleagues or competitors. Don't get into a 
-
debate with someone intent on making you look had. *** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Act on a hunch today and you will prove your value. Love and romance are looking good. Your ability to know how to please and what to do will be uncanny. ***** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can expect to have problems today if you decide to address emotional issues. It may be hard to keep these worries to yourself, hut you will have a much better understanding later in the week of how to handle things. ** · LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Believe and you can achieve. You arc moving fast and furiously in a direction that should take you to the next level with regard to whatever or whoever you are dealing with. Lqok forward today. not back. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may want to check your bank account before you spend money. There is a chance you underestimated how much you actually have. Don't consider lending cash to anyone. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You must follow your own instincts, even if someone tells you differently. Today is your day, so muster up all the confidence you have and show everyone what you are capable of doing.*** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): There is plenty going on, but you're being left out. Let down your guard and make a move into the fast lane. There is a big difference between being a spectator and being a participant. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Although you may suffer some minor setbacks, you can make things happen today. Your basic instincts will lead you in the right direction, as long as you are prepared to deal with the unexpected. ***** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You are tom between what you want to do and what you should do. Try td incorporate both into your busy schedule. Don't let your temper slow you down or lead you astray. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Make changes at home and to your personal life that will contribute to your emotional well-being. Get back in the swing of things, meet new people and get on with your life. Don't dwell on past mistakes. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Not everyone will agree with you, but as long as you are adaptable, everything will eventually fall into place. Finish something you have left undone for some time. Once you begin tidying up, you will feel better. *** 
Birthday Baby: You love to help others and engage in social activity, but you know your limitations. You are sophisticated, bright and a wonderful storyteller. You will always stand up for what's right. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com.for fun, eugenialast.clmrfor confidelltial ('tmsultations 

THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ 
Address _______________________________________ 
City __________ State ____ Zip______ 
' 
' 
THE OBSERVER 






PORTS
Wednesday, August 24, 2005 
page 28 
NO ATHLETICS 

~Gug' gives Notre D'ame new look 
Irish sports facility brings fresh luxuries to football team, coaching staff 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
It's pronounced "Goog," it's spelled "Gug" and it's short for the largest upgrade of ath­letic facilities at Notre Dame in years. 
The Don F. and Flora Guglielmino Athletics Complex, a $21.25 million project, is receiving its finish­ing touches as the 2005 foot­ball season approaches. The football team recently moved in to the new 95,840-square­foot facility that features state-of-the-art locker rooms, training equipment, greeting and meeting rooms and coaches' offices. 
And head coach Charlie Weis already feels at home. 
"Absolutely,"· Weis said after Tuesday's practice. "Ride by. I'll wave to you from my patio." 
Weis' second-floor office opens onto .a balcony that overlooks Cartier Field, where the team practices. Add that to the long list of amenities and upgrades that are making the "Gug" the talk of all Notre Dame sports, not just football. 
"You could see how moving into a facility like this ... is a really big plus for the University of Notre Dame," Weis said on the team's media day Aug. 8. "It's a big plus for the whole athletic depart­ment." 
Located behind the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center and connected in the back to the Loftus Sports Center, the Guglielmino Complex will serve as the new official loca­tion of the football offices ­moving to the east of campus from their previous location in the Joyce Center. 




MEN'S SOCCER 

Aggressive play benefits Irish 
Notre Dame ties New Mexico 1-1 after a challenging first half 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
What a difference a half makes. 
In the opening exhibition game of the year, the Notre Dame men's soccer team fell behind 1-0 in a first half controlled by visiting New Mexico on Monday. The second half, however, proved to be quite a different story. 
The Irish came out of the break much more aggressively and confi­dently and stole the momentum from the Lobos. Notre Dame tied the score in the 56th minute of play on a goal from junior defender Ryan Miller. The two teams fought to a standstill for thP rest of regula­tion and two overtime periods, and the game ended in a 1-1 tie. 
Coach Bobby Oark was pleased with his team's play. 


"They all played a phenomenal 19:33 left to play in the first half, second half," Clark said. "We New Mexico's speedy striker looked as well as any team can." Brandon Moss got behind the Irish 
The Lobos, who entered the defense and tired a shot from the game ranked No. 6 in the nation, top of the box. Chris Cahill, the 6­set the pace at the outset and had several early scoring chances. With see LOBOS/page 25 
With big-name college foot­ball programs upgrading facil­ities across the country ­Sports Illustrated once report­ed Oregon had plasma screen televisions in its locker room 
see GUG/page 24 

ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Bock aids Irish for two vvins 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
New season, same result<>. 

That's been the story of the top­ranked and defending national champion Notre Dame women's soccer team in the last 10 days, as freshmen Brittany Bock and Kerri Hanks and senior Katie Thorlakson propelled the Irish to two wins in exhibition matchups. 
Though Hanks said the team was a little out of sync, the Irish toppPd Butler and Virginia in the team's two pre-season games. 
"It all came down team effort," she said. "And the coaches pre­pamd us very well." 
Notre Dame 8, Butler 1 

In the first contest, Notre Dame routed the Bulldogs in Indianapolis, 8-1, scoring eight goals on 26 shots. Bock made a tremendous first impression, scoring two goals and adding an assist. 
Senior forward Katie Thorlakson started the Irish on the right foot, netting her goal just 90 seconds after kickoff. Junior defender Kim Lorenzen 
see BOCK/page 26 
FOOTBALL 



Jones, Webb top list of· ND recruits 
Weis, Irish ink six star players over the summer season 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 

This summer was a busy one for Charlie Weis and his Notre Dame coaching staff as six recruits gave their verbal com­mitment to the Irish, upping the total number of recruits who intend to sign with Notre Dame this year to 12. 
The six verbal commitments received since May 27 are cor­nerback Raeshon McNeil, offen­sive lineman Bartley Webb, running back Luke Schmidt, wide receiver Rob Parris, defen­sive end John Ryan and quar­terback Demetrius Jones. 
Hecruits are not allowed to sign their official letters of intent until February. McNeil is the most recent verbal commit­ment, having made his announcement on Aug. 15. He and Webb are two of the more important commitments given the lack of depth on the team in the defensive secondary and offensive line. 
McNeil is the first secondary commitment in this class, and is believed by many experts to be the most promising Irish cor­nerback prospect in the past 10 years. 
"Lately Notre D'ame had seemed to miss out on their very top cornerback prospects," said Mike Frank of Irisheyes.com. "But they got [McNeil] and will probably try to sign at least two and probably 
see MCNEIL/page 26 

LLI  ND MEN'S SOCCER  CYCUNG  NCAA  NO fOOTBAll  NCAA BASKETBALL  NCAA FOOTBALL  
u z s ~  Despite individual successes, the Irish maintain their strength is team play.  French paper alleges that prominent biker Lance Armstrong show­ed signs of doping.  Florida State regains the right to use its name, the Seminoles.  The Irish rewarded three players with ath­letic scholarships: Casey Cullen, Brandon Harris,  Cincinnati coach Bob Huggins was given 24 hours to resign from his head coaching position,  Former Notre Dame and South Carolina head coach Lou Holtz named one of 114 voters  
cc  and Rob Woods .  or the Bobcats' coach will be fired.  in new BCS format.  
=:  page 25  page 23  page 22  page 21  page 21  page 21  





