
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND experts react to potential seminary rules 
University professors, priests discuss rumors surrounding possible release ofpapal document regarding gay seminarians 
By MADDIE HANNA Associaw N<·ws Fditor 
SpPrulation about the releasn or a Vatican dorunHHJt containing rPstrictions barring homosexuals !"rom nntPring tho pri11sthood has stirrPd dPbate and onwtions both across tlw nation and at Notre I lanw. 
Tlw rostrictions, which would rPquiro Vatican rnprosm1tativos to invnstigatP tho 22'J U.S. SIHninarins for "nvidonc11 of homosexuality," havn bP111l rnportnd by nows agon­ciPs hut not b111111 o("(kially eon-firmed. But H. Scott Appleby, dirnetor of the Kroc Institute for lntnrnational Peace Studies and an export on the Catholic Church's r11cent sexual abuse scandals, called this possible move by the Vatican "sadly punitive." 
"II" a gay man lilels callnd to the priesthood, lundnr the proposed nnw rulingl he must dissemble, or even lie, about his sexual orienta­tion," Appleby said. "In a sense, t!w,,Omrch would be complicit in a he. 
This, Appleby said, would cnmte an "unlumlthy" and rnpressive eli­mate likn tho onn present in semi­naries during the highly publiciznd scandals of recent years. 
"We know how that's an unhealthy situation," Appleby said. "It can even backlirn." 
The reason for the Vatican's statement stemmed from "the con­cern that some seminaries in the 
U.S. are becoming a haVfm l"or honiosexuals," Appleby said. "And the l"enling on the part of somn pooplo that heterosexuals arc intimidated from entering the seminary, or feel uncomli>rtablc, bncause it's a gay dirnato." 
Theology professor Father Hichard McBrien agroed with tho idea that a gay climate exists in seminaries. lie said the Chureh's sexual abuse scandals were a major contributing faetor to the proposed rostrictions. 
"The U.S. cardinals thcmsdves asknd for this investigation of sem­inaries in April 2002, at the height of the sexual abuse scandal," McBrien said. "At the time -and since -there were a number of charges, mainly from ultra-conser­vative Catholics, that homosexuals in tho priesthood wero responsible for the sexual abuse, RO percent of whose victims were boys." 
This statistic, theology professor 
Students participate in lunch fast program 
World Hunger Coalition donates $1.75 per Wednesday meal not eaten by participants 
By KAREN LANGLEY Nrw.sWrit<"r 
North and South Dining llalls are snrving a lilw less pnopln at lunch today than they did Tuesday. thanks to tlw Wodnosday Lunch Fast. 
I•:arh wonk, participants in the program lhrgo Wmhwsday's dining hall lunch meal and a portion of thoir nwal mst will bn donatod to hunger mlinf' charities. Thn Fast, which is the main activity organized by Notre Dame's World I Iunger Coalition (WIIC), has raised thousands of dollars for charity over the years. 
Still, the $1.75 donated by Food Services ((Jr each saerilkml nwal has bncome a point of mntnntion among mmnbers of tho group and studm!L'i who wish to join. 
"StudonL'i get upsot bnmuso they pay $R.50 pnr nwal and only get $1.75 back llilr chari­ly, I said C. Lincoln Johnson, faculty advisor to tho WIIC. Johnson said he nstimated the eost 
see LUNCH/page 6 



Buddhist nun, historian discuss SMC thetne 
speaking on the same panel because the first year theme is "to be explored in ways that can be interpreted with numbers, and ways that can be interpret­ed with words from the heart." 
This first year theme, which is chosen every spring by a group of professors and the Center for Academic Innovation, is intend­ed to create "a sense of intellee­t.ual community, particularly among first year lstudentsl." Melendez said, adding all stu­dents are invited to participate in events offered about the theme. 
This year's theme was chosen because it has been suggested that Saint Mary's students arc not informed citizens, Melendez said. 
Melendez, director of the first year writing program, said that 
see LECTURE/page 9 

By ELIZABETH ANN HARTER 
News Writer 
Two seemingly-different women -a Buddhist nun who studied in the forests of Thailand and a historian who researched raeial patterns through censuses .-came together Tuesday to discuss "Who Counts in the United States?," the 2005-06 first year theme at Saint Mary's. 
Guest speakers Faith Adiele, a professor of creative non-fiction writing at the University of Pittsburgh, and Margo Anderson, a professor of history and urban studies at the University of Wisconsin­Milwaukee, addressed a crowd of roughly 150 at Saint Mary's Tuesday. 
Professor Marfa Melendez said the two women were 
Lawrence Cunningham said, sparknd mntrovorsy. 
"Sinee it was overwlwlmingly young men, over young wonwn lwho wore allngmlly abusndl, tho question L'i wnm thny !Church olli­cialsl ordaining nwn who Wl'rn homosnxuals," Cunningham said. "Somn poopl11 havn criticiznd this ... that on co thorn had bonn nvi­donce of' that, thnsn people havl' not bonn removed from artivn ministry." 
Appleby said lw did not support tho bolinl" that hom_osnxuals in 
see VATICAN/page 9 


Arrest tnade on catnpus 
NDSP jails 1nan for larceny and being wanted on a warrant 
By KATE ANTONACCI Associate News F.diror 
A South Bend man wantnd on a warrant was arrnstnd Tuesday on South Quad altm· hn stoh1 a bark­paek from North Dining llall, Associate Director of Notrn I>an111 Security/Police (NDSP) Philip Johnson said. 
"A student from Stanford llall cal111d us and reporlnd a suspi­cious pnrson in thn hall," Johnson said. "lie knew that lhnrn had been tholts in Stanli>rd. The pnr­son left the hall on a bicyde with a backpack. An ollknr stopped him on campus and idnntilied him as being wanted with a warrant." 
A warrant li>r tlw man, :H. had bmm issued by tlw departnwnt of corrections f(Jr a parole violation, Johnson said. The man was arrnsted at II a.m. liJr both larc<1­ny and ((u· being wantnd on a war­rant, Johnson said. 
"I would think with a warrant INDSPI would turn him ovnr to llw departnwnt of' corrections," Johnson said. 
The man was lodgnd in the Saint Josnph County Jail following his arrest on 1:ampus, Johnson said. 
"Our investigation will continuo in this easn and anyone who has inli>mmlion about this can certain­ly contact us," Johnson said. 
Johnson said that it is important that students arn cautious about who they lnt into dormitories and about l!~aving their belongings unattondnd. 
"We nmlly ar11 grateful that this student who saw this person and 
see ARREST/page 6 page 2 Wednesday, September 28, 2005 

rhe'Observer +PAGE 2"' 




INSIDE COLUMN 
My colllputer, 
the jerk 

My computer does not want me to suc­ceed. Everyone talks about how technol­ogy makes life easier, and how we con­tinue to make so many advances. Ifwe're so advanced, how come I don't know how to cook any­thing that doesn't Joe Piarulli have the words "pop" or "easy" in 
News Wire

their names? The computers are the Editor ones getting better, not us. 
Yes, there's a whole wealth ofinforma­tion at my fingertips, but how can I use it when I know that for every biographical fact about James Joyce on the Internet, there's 10 flash games where you shoot zombies? My computer may represent the best academic resource I have, but it also serves as my greatest distraction, and for me, that poses a serious problem. 
I have a short attention span to begin with. For example, between writing that last sentence and writing this one, I spent 15 minutes counting the spirals on my tan phone's cord (there are 212-check to see if yours is the same). So you see, on the tree oftechnologic"al knowledge, there are some bad apples, and it's tempting to take them because they look so delicious. 
My laptop has sent me back to 1995. When I found out you could play Nintendo and Sega Genesis games on your computer, I knew my chances of doing anything productive ever again were about as good as a female rooster's chance ofwinning the World's Strongest Man Competition (because female roost­ers can't exist, duh). 
If Nintendo games on my computer manifested themselves into a person, they would be Drago from Rocky IV, and my willpower would be a 75-pound chess champion named Clarence. Put them in an arm wrestling match, and you understand my David vs. Goliath-like dilemma (for those ofyou keeping track at home, that's the second Biblical refer­ence so far in a column about video games). 
Computers do simplifY life, but ifour lives get any easier, life itself might just seem like too much ofa hassle. Employers are always looking for short­cuts, and aren't we all? "Hey, pick up that box for me ... No, I can't make the computer do it, the computer is broken . . . Oh, I see you're swallowing a cyanide capsule now because it's easier than picking up the box ... Good thinking, now that's efficiency. I'm promoting you." 
I realize I'm stretching the issue, but you see my point, and I'm just scratching the surface. I still haven't mentioned the people who spend hours on facebook (if you're reading this, friend me), or on Playstation (why would I go outside and play football when I can help the Philadelphia Eagles win eight Super Bowls in a row from my futon?), or spend so much time sending text mes­sages that they know "Notre Dame" comes up as "mouse dame" using T9word. It's tough living in such a viciously simple world. 
I cannot escape from my computer. It's with me right now. Shh ... it can hear you. It's not letting me leave. It says ifI shut it down the Microsoft Word paper­clip will cry and I'll get a virus. Not just a computer virus, but strep throat too. Save yourselves. Warn the children ... 
Contact Joe Piarulli at jpiarull@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that w~ will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please cont.-act us at 631-4 541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK OF NOTRE DAME'S RELATIONSHIP WITH SOUTH BEND? 

Jim Schneider sophomore Carroll  Kristen Sobolweski sophomore Badin  Brett Lilley sophomore Keenan  Peter Hadley sophomore Carroll  Katie Rose Hackney freshman Badin  Esther Sims sophomore Badin  
"Is it any  "I like the movie  "Without Notre  "I think that  "I use their  "I don't think,  

wonder why theater." Dame, South Notre Dame is 
Notre Dame has its own zip code?" Bend would not lucky to be in 
exist; not the other way around." 

the Midwest's Renaissance city!" 

CLAIHE KELLEY/The Observer Sabitha Narendran, left, and Lisa Lombardi, right, help Matt Alderman with his senior architecture project Tuesday. These fifth year architects often work late into the night in Bond Hall. 
OFFBEAT 

realized he would not get far because his hands were handcuffed behind his back. 
Deputies waited for him on the riverbank and took him into custody again, according to a criminal complaint filed by Kanawha County Sheriff's Deputy J.R. Powell. 
David Douglas Gritly II, 23, of Cross Lanes was arrested around midnight Sunday. Police believe he smashed the Dollar General store win­dow with a tire tool so anoth­er man could steal cold med­icine used to make metham­phetamine. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Man falls asleep while siphoning gas 
MUNCIE, Ind.-A man fell asleep while siphoning gasoline into a 55-gallon tank that had been installed in the back of a van, police said. 
The manager of the Swifty station on the city's south side noticed the white van parked on its lot when he arrived Tuesday morning and called police. 
Inside the van, officers reported finding a man asleep next to a 55-gallon tank and a battery-operated pump. 'A hose from the pump led to the gas station's underground tank. 
"That's a lot of gas," Police Chief Joe Winkle said. ''I'm sure he felt like this would be a pretty good heist for him­self." 
Firefighters were called to disconnect the hose, and the man was arrested on charges of theft and posses­sion of a firearm without a permit, Winkle said. 
Cuffed man jumps in river, then swims back 
CHARLESTON, W Va. -A man arrested for allegedly breaking into a Cross Lanes store broke free from deputies and jumped into the Kanawha River, only to come back when he apparently 

TODAY TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
a: 
LLI 
::z::: 
!;;: 
LLI 

3: 
...I 
c:( 
(.) 



HIGH LOW 


62 40 

HIGH LOW 
0 
HIGH

..... 74 
LOW­

60 
,

weather actually. 
,

reports. 
IN BRIEF 

President Emeritus Father Edward "Monk" Malloy will be signing copies of his new book "Monk's Notre Dame" from 10 
a.m. to noon today at the Eck Visitors' Center. The book is a collection of stories and essays that offer special insight into the University. 
There will be a Post-Graduate Service Fair from 5 p.m. to 8 today in the Stepan Center. More than 50 domestic and international organizations will be represented. 
Tonight's Margaritaville event for seniors has been can­celled. 
The men's soccer team will face Bradley University today at 7 p.m. on Alumni Field. 
The film "La Cueca Sola," directed by Chilean director Marilu Mallet, will be shown tonight at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. It is the second in the series "Women Make Movies: a Latin American Perspective" spon­sored by the Kellogg Institute. 
Marc Gunther, senior Fortune magazine writer and author will give a lecture entitled "Faith and Fortune in Business" at 7 
p.m. tonight in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
Steve Coil, a writer for The New Yorker, will give the lecture "Inside the Hunt for Osama Bin Laden" Thursday from 7 p.m. to 8:30 in the Jordan Auditorium of Mendoza College. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, September 28, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Professor tries to save rare plant 
By KATIE KOHLER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's biology professor Hiehard .Jensen has initiated a campaign to raise funds for the preservation of tlw plant speci­men herbaria, which was destroyed in llurricane Katrina. 
The most devastatnd location for lwrharia. a plant specimen used for things sueh as DNA analysis and plant identification, was the Gulf Coast Hesearch Laboratory in Ocean Springs, Miss., .Jensen said, where most specimens rosidml in colleges and universities. 
.Jensnn, as the president of the American Society of Plant Taxonomists (ASPT), said that these plants arn essential to envi­ronmental rnsearch and is work­ing to preserve the plant if possi­bll~. 
Specimens that are destroyed take vital information along with them," he said. 
.Jensen explained that the process of rnscuing the damaged specimens is almost identieal to tlw procedure libraries use to sal­vage books damaged by water or lloods. 
"Jierbaria needs to be dealt with earefully and cannot get wnt." hn said. 
Some prosnrvation techniques indude frenzing or drying the darnagnd specimens. 
Jensen and other members of the ASPT are requesting that members of the soeiety as well as others donate funds to help restore herbaria specimens. 
"Hight now we are looking for short-term donations, but we hope that people are willing to make a more long-term eommit­ment," .Jfmsen said. 
Not many people know the im portanee of herbaria or its uses, Jensen said. adding that its importance should not be under­estimated. 
"Doctors use herbaria to identi­fy a plant ingested by a child," he said. "A detective uses herbaria to identify plant parts found on a murder victim to help determine the scene of the crime." 
Although Jensen is looking for support for his campaign, he wants his benefactors to keep the victims of Katrina as their para­mount cause of monetary dona­tion. 
"The people donating should make the people their first priori­ty and the museum second," he said. 
This campaign is also raising money to provide support for future disasters. Jensen said con­tributions ean be sent directly to the American Society of Plant Taxonomists Herbarium Emergency Fund. 
Contact Katie Kohler at kkohleO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

GE exec giving envirolllllent talk 
Special co the Observer 
James R. Maughan. general manager of Controls and Power Electronics for GE Energy, will deliver a talk in Notre Dame's Distinguished Engineering Lecture Series at 
12:50 p.m. Friday in the DeBartolo Hall auditori­um. Titled "Energy Teehnologies

That Will Maughan Drive the Coming Environmental Hevolution," the lecture is free and open to the public. 

In his presentation, Maughan will address societal demands for high energy efliciency, with low environmental impaet and diversity, as well as the prom­ise and perils of the technolo­gies created to meet these demands for clean energy. 
As the general manager for Controls and Power Electronics, Maughan directs the upkeep of GE's turbines, generators and compressors. He also has held leadership positions as the global manag­er of research in GE Energy business, as well as in the areas of gas turbine, steam turbine and energy services new product development. 
Maughan received a bache­lor's degree from Brigham Young University, and master's and doetoral degrees from Purdue University, in mnehani­eal nnginoering. lie joined GE in 1989 as part of the Corporato Hnsnareh Centnr and moved to GE Enorgy in l91J7. 
The Distinguished Engin­eoring Leeturn Series exposos students to enginonrs who havo achieved at the highest lovels in their specific fields. Speakers from various disci­plinos are l'eaturnd throughout eaeh aeademie year to give stu­dents an overview of the diverse opportunities available in engineering and to provide them with a better understand­ing of the role of engineering in society and the impact they, as engineers, can have. 

OAS leader to headline conference 
Special to the Observer 
Jose Miguel Insulza, seere­tary general of the Organization of American States, will be the keynote speaker at a conference examining democratic strug­gles in Latin America on Oct. 7 and 8 at Notre Dame. 
Titled "Demoeratic Governance in Latin Ameriea," the conference will be held in the 1-Iesburgh Center auditorium and is sponsored by the University's 

Kellogg Institute for International Studies. Insulza's keynote address will be at 4:45p.m. Oct. 7. 
Insulza brings important perspective on the growth and sustainability of democracy in Latin America. He was a polit­ical science professor in Chile until 1973, when he went into exile after the military coup and the rise of Gen. Augusto Pinochet. lnsulza returned in 1988, after which he held a number of offices in the Chilean government, most recently as Chile's Minister of the Interior. 
After a wave of democrati­zation beginning in the 1980s, democracy in Latin American never has seemed more pre­carious, and publie support for it continues to wane. In Guatemala and Brazil, as mueh as two-thirds of the population rejects democracy as the most proferabln form of governance. Moreover, tho majority of Latin Americans are poorer now than they were in 1996. 

"' , 

ALL ENGIN.EERING STUDENTS WELCOME! 
.-----------------­
Wednesday, September 28, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 4 

THE CATHOLIC UNIVERSITY IN THE NEW MILLENNIUM 
"' 

"Without in any way neglecting the acquisition of useful knowledge, a Catholic University is distinguished by its free search for the whole_Jruth about nature, man and God. The present age is in urgent need of this kind of disinterested service, namely of proclaiming the meaning of truth, that fundamental value without which freedom, justice and human dignity are extinguished." -Pope John Paul II, Ex Corde Ecclesiae 
The aim of the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture's sixth annual fall conference is to bring together a large number of respected scholars representing all the main academic fields, from Catholic, non-Catholic, and secular institutions, to discuss a broad range of issues relating to the way in which the Catholic university as a whole, as well as the particular disciplines which comprise it, can best respond to Pope John Paul ll's call for a renewal of Catholic institutions of higher learning. Speakers include J. Philip Gleason, Helen Alvare, Fr. John Jenkins, and Alasdair Mcintire. 
Thursday, September 29, 2005 Saturday, October 1, 2005 
7:30 p.m. Welcoming Remarks 
9-:00-1 0:15 a.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1 : Panel Discussion: "Luigi Giussani and the Risk of 
7:40 p.m. "Through Dangers, Toils, and Snares, An 
Education" Historical Perspective on Catholic Higher Session 2: Liberal Arts Curricula at the Catholic University Education" Session 3: Past Figures Address Current Conditions Philip Gleason, University of Notre Dame Session 4: Spiritual Aspects of the Intellectual Life 
Session 5: What Philosophers Can Take from Fides et Ratio Session 6: Prospective Students Evaluate Catholic Universities

Friday, September 30, 2005 
Session 7: Academic Freedom and Faculty Dissent Session 8: Panel Discussion: "Saint Louis University's Micah House 9:00-10:15 a.m. Colloquium Sessions Program: Integrating Faith, Curriculum, Community and Session 1: Panel Discussion: "'Administry': Transforming Administration 
Social Justice" into Ministry" Session 2: Panel Discussion: ''The Active Embrace of Ex Corde 
10:45 a.m.-12:00 p.m. Invited Speakers 
Ecclesiae: The Case Study of a Small Liberal Arts 
Margaret M. Hogan, University of Portland
University" 

Ralph Mcinerny, University of Notre Dame
Session 3: Moral Formation on Campus 
Rev. Kevin Wildes, SJ, Loyola University New Orleans
Session 4: The Effects of Truth Session 5: Philosophy of the Person/Personal Formation Session 6: The Christian University and Social Justice Issues 12:15-1:15 p.m. Lunch Session 7: Unity of Curriculum and Community Session 8: The Purpose of Christian Universities 
1 :30-2:45 p.m. Invited Speakers 
David Lyle Jeffrey, Baylor University 
10:45 a.m.-12:00 p.m. Invited Speakers 
Rev. Kurt Pritzl, OP, The Catholic University of America Don Briel, University of St. Thomas 
Paul Weithman, University of Notre Dame Alasdair Macintyre, University of Notre Dame 
Michael Beaty, Baylor University Thomas Smith, Villanova University 
Rev. Matthew Lamb, Ave Maria UniversityRobert Sloan, Baylor University. 
Don Schmeltekopf, Baylor University 
3:15-4:45 p.m. Colloquium Sessions Session 1: Panel Discussion: "What Catholic Universities Can Learn 
12:15-1:15 p.m. Lunch 

from Non-Catholic'' Session 2: Panel Discussion: "Women, Families and the Christian 1 :30-2:45 p.m. Invited Speakers University 
M. Katherine nllman, University of Notre Dame Session 3: Panel Discussion: Natural Law Marvin O'Connell, University of Notre Dame Session 4: Teaching Principles of the Catholic Tradition Phillip Sloan, University of Notre Dame Session 5: Moral Philosophy as Christian, as Philosophy 
H. Tristram Engelhardt, Jr., Rice University Session 6: Forming Professionals Rev. Wilson Miscamble, CSC, University of Notre Dame Session 7: Catholicity and Curriculum 
3:15-4:45 p.m. Colloquium Sessions 5:00 p.m. Mass at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Session 1: Panel Discussion: 'The Role of a Rhetoric Ph.D. Program in a Catholic Spiritan University: A 
7:00p.m. Banquet
Model for Catholic Education for Service in 
the New Millennium" Session 2: Academic Freedom Session 3: Catholic Social Justice Issues Session 4: Classic Catholic Curricula Session 5: Truth and Cultural Dialogue All sessions are open to the public. 
Session 6: The Unity of Truth Conference events will be held at McKenna Session 7: The Catholic Law School 
Hall unless otherwise noted. A full program and registration information may be found at
6:00-7:15 p.m. Dinner 

our website: ethicscenter.nd.edu 7:30-9:00 p.m. "The Catholic University : Mediator of Grace and Truth" There is no registration fee for Notre Dame students Helen Alvare, Columbus School of Law and faculty. If you would like to attend meals, please at The Catholic University of America register on-line at ethicscenter.nd.edu 







ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, September 28, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Top al-Qaida official killed in Iraq 
Bi\( ;( Il>i\1>. Iraq -U.S. and Iraqi authorities said Tuesday thl'ir liwens had killed the No. 2 ofli­rial in thn al-Qaida in Iraq organi:mtion in a woek­nnd raid in Baghdad. claiming to havo strw~k a "painful blow" to tho r.ountry's most limred insur­w~nt group. 
i\hdullah i\hu /\7.zam lnd al-<)aida's op<~rations in Baghdad, planning a brutal wave of' suidde bomb­in).,'S in thl' capital sinen i\pril. killing hundrods of' J>Popln -induding polien, anny re1:ruil'i ami day labori'J"S, ollkials said. i\1~rording to an A'isodatnd Pross I<LIIy, (,1)1{ pnoph~ have boon ki1111d and 1,579 haw lll•nn woundml sim~~~ i\pril I in suiddo attacks in Baghdad. 
lin also mntrollnd tlw linanens lilr lim~ign light­m-s tJmt llownd into Iraq to join thn insurgoncy. 
i\bu N.zam, who a govnmmont spokesman said W<L'i an Iraqi. W<L'i tlw top dnputy to Jordanian mili­tant i\bu Musab al-Zarqawi. i\bu N.zam W<L'i on a list of' Iraq's 21) most-wantnd insurgnnl'i issuod by tlu~ U.S. milillu"Y in h•brwU)' and had a bounty of' $50,000 on his hnad. 
i\1-<)aida in Iraq dnnil'd tlml i\bu NY<Un W<L'i tim No. 2 lnadl'r of' tlw organization and said "it W/L'i not ronlirnu~d" that lm was killnd." i\bu i\zzam was orw of' al-<)aida's many soldinrs and is tlw lnadnr of orw of its battalions operating in Baghdad," thn group said in an lntomot statmnnnt by il'i spokPsJTHlll, i\bu Maysara at-Iraqi. 
Putin questioned about third term 
MOSCOW -l'rnsidont Vladimir Putin said Ttwsday lw dol's not favor rw~jor changes in tlw ronstitulion, but gave a lnss 1~ategorical answnr to t.lw qunstion of' wlwthnr lw would rmnain in ollke al't<n· his sneond tnrm onds in 200X. 
In n~sponsn to a ralh~r·s question on livo tolnvi­sion on wlwtlwr hn could run li>r a third t11rm. l'utin said that hn did not sno it as his task to stay on indnlinitnly. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Police superintendent steps down 
NJo:W OHI.I•:i\NS -Police Superintendent t·:ddie Compass n~signed Tuesday aftnr four turbulent wnnks in which tho police force was wnu~kml hy desnrtions and disorganiza­tion in llurricarw Katrina's aftormath. 
"I sorvnd this department for 26 years and havo takon it through somn of' the toughest tirrws of its history. Evnry man in a leadorship position must know when it's Limn to hand over thn rnins," Compass said at a nows con­ference. ''I'll be going on in another direction that Cod has for mo." 
i\s tho dty slippnd into anarchy during thn first few days after Katrina, thn 1,700-mem­lwr polien dnJmrtmnnt itself' sull'ered a crisis. Many oflienrs dosnrtnd tlwir posts, and sonw worn accusod of joining in tho looting that broke out. Two ollicnrs Compass describnd as friends eommittml suiddn. 
Men arrested for 200 1 murder 
FOI!T Li\lii>EI!I>i\LI~. Fla. -Thrnn men havn bonn arrnstnd in thn 2001 ambush slaying of' Miami busirwssman Konstantinos "Gus" BoulL'i ­a murder t.hat happl'rwd a li~w months af'tnr hn sold a l'lnnt of casino boats to prominont W<L'ihinj..,>'ton lobbyist Jack i\bramoll' and a partrwr. 
Police would not eommont on wtwthnr thoy rne1~iwd any help from i\bmrnoiJ' or his liwmnr parlrwr. /\dam Kidan. Botl1 mnn wern indicted in i\ugust on fednral fraud dmrgos in eonnedio.n with their Septmnber 2000 pureh<t'in of' SunCruz Casinos !'or $147.5 million. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Trial of former Gov. Ryan to begin 
CIIIC;\(;O-/\jury W<L'i chosen Tuesday lin· li>r­nwr (;ov. <;norgn Hyan's rackotnnring and fraud trial. and lawy1ws got mady for opnning state­mPnL'i Wndrwsday morning. 
Tho 12 nwmbnrs and six alb1rnatns, snleetnd al'tnr night days of' intorvinws with potential jumrs, WIWI~ to bo sworn in bdi>rn the opnning statmnnnl'i at the li1d1wal trial. 
Hyan, 71, is dmrgnd with rackntnnring conspir­acy, mail fraud, lying to FBI agents and tax fraud. i\lso charged in the 22-eount indidment is a lobbyist and friond, Larry Warner. 


Bush weighs candidate choice 
President is expected to name nominee after Roberts' confirmation Thursday 
Associated Press 
Wi\SIIINGTON 

President Bush, dose to 
nominating a successor to 
rotiring Justice Sandra 
Day O'Connor, has nar­
rowod his list to a handful 
of candidates that outside 
advisors say includes fed­
oral judges and two peo­
plo who have never 
banged a gavol -corpo­
rato attornny Larry 
Thompson and White 
llousn counsel Harriet 
Miors. 

White House press snc­rntary Scott McCinllan said Tuesday that Bush had pledged ti) consult with senators about his snlnetion and said, "I think we wore essentially wrapping that procoss up as narly as today." 
lin dnelined to say if the prosident had intorvicwed any candidates and wouldn't speculato about Bush's l'avoritns, but legal analysts monitoring thn seloction procoss say oth­ers often mentioned are l'ndoral appellato judges /\lice Batcheldnr, J. Michaol Luttig, Edith Jonns, J. Harvie Wilkinson, Priscilla Owen, Samuel /\lito, Karen Williams and Miehanl McConnell. i\lso said to be on the list are Maura Corrigan, a judgn on the Michigan Supreme Court, and Attorney General i\lbnrto Gonzales. 
Bush is Hxpected to announce his nominee quickly arter Thursday's antieipatod confirmation and swearing in of' John Roberts as ehiefjustien. 
Bush on Monday hinted· he might ehoose a woman or minority momber. But somn outside advisers were intrigued by another part of Bush's rnply.. The president said he had interviewed and eonsid­ered people from "all walks of lifo." 
That raisod speculation that Bush was activB!y considering people who were not on the bench ­such as Miors, a Texas 


lawyer and the president's former porsonal attorney, and Thompson, a counsel at PepsiCo, who was tho federal governmont's highest ranking blaek law enforcement official when he was deputy attorney general during Bush's first tnrm. 
"It could be someone outside .or the legal judi­cial field like a Larry Thompson, or it could be a senator," said Jay Sekulow, ehief counsel for the i\merican Cmiter for Law and Justieo, a publie interest legal group foundod by religious broadcaster Pat Rober­tson. 
Sekulow said he's heard Miers' name mentioned "fairly significantly" dur­ing the past two days. She doesn't have judicial expe­rience, but slw's a "woll­respected lawynr -somn­one the pn~sident trusts." 

"I think Harriet could eertainly be in the mix," he said. 
Two o t h e r j u d i ei a I activists, including onn with contacts at the White House, said they too had heard Miers' name rnnn­tioned. but agrend with Sekulow, who cautioned: "I don't think anybody has that eryslal ball but the pmsidnnt." 
Miors is loading tho White llouse effort to hnlp Bush dH>ose nominees to the Supreme Court so naming her would follow a move Bush madn in 2000 whon he tappml the man lnading his search eommittno for a running mato -Dkk Chenny. 
"Givon the Cheney pre1:edent and tho prnsi­dHnt's well-known loyalty to his aidns, it's certainly possibln thn prnsidon t eould turn to llarrint," said Brad BIHnnson, a lawyer who formerly worknd in thn counsel's oiTiee of' tho Bush Whitn llousn. 
"She's a vnry able lawyor who is thn porson currontly ehargnd with carrying forward tlw prnsidnnt's soareh !'or judicial ~~onsnrvativns, so shn cnrtainly understands what tho prnsidnnt looks for in his nominees. I sus­pnct she'd bn eonl'irnwd quitn nasily." 
Immigration of illegal aliens rises 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Illegal immi­grants are increasing despite tighter bordnr security and now outnumber l'oroignnrs moving to tho United States legally. 
Thn Pew llispanie Cnnter roported Tunsday that immigration in general has been pieking up, tracking the reviving i\merican eeonomy and improving jobs picture. 
"The U.S. economy was obviously a vnry important faetor in determin­ing these flows," said Hoberto Suro, director of the center and a co­author of its study. 
Immigration-both legal and ille­
gal -topped 1.5 million peopln in 1999 and 2000, accordiog to thn report. The nurnb1~r of peoplo enter­ing th1~ United Stati)S thon plummot­od to 1.1 million people by 200:~. the same lnvnl as in 1992. 
Immigration bounced back to 1.2 million in 2004, but the report cau­tioned that it is difficult to say whether the recm1t upswing is part. or a now trend 
0 

"Tho oxtrcmely high (immigration) 11ows at the end of the past decade worn not the norm, nor part of a long-term trend, but rather the peak of a momentary inernase that lasted for only a few years," said the report, which was written by Suro and demographer Jeffrey Passel. 
Thn report dorunwnts immigra­tion lnvds from 1992 t.o 2004, gnn­orating ~~stimatns l'rorn a varinty ol' Census data. 
The l'nw llispani1~ C1~ntnr is a non­partisan research organization sup­portod by tlw Pew Charitable Trusts. 
Bordnr security gairwd national attention last month aftnr tlw goviH·­nors of' two states, i\rizona and N11W Moxieo, deelarnd statns of' onwr­gency on thnir borders with Mnxiro. The govornors cited socurity short­eornings by tho fndentl governnwnt. 
llomeland Sncurity Seerntary Michael ClwrtoiT said at tho time that he had already ordernd a review of border security stratngy. 
.------------­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 28, 2005 
Lunch 
continued from page 1 

f(Jr one meal based on the fee for a guest pass to a dining hall. 
While students may note a substantial difTerence between their fees charged per meal to their plans and the money donated per meal by Food Services, they must remember to account for other costs incurred by Food Services with the preparation of each meal, Johnson said. 
Dave Prentkowski, Director of Food Services, explained that cost of food is only a small part of the funding needed to run the dining halls. 
"The amount donated is the value of the cost saved by the dining halls as a result of the meal not being consumed," Prentkowski said. "This is pri­marily food. Many significant costs remain no matter if meals or missed or not. These costs include costs of labor, cleaning supplies, utilities, etc." 
The amount of money donated rises each year with the cost of food, Prentkowski said. Last year, Food Services donated $1.65 per meal. 
The sum of Doughton, donations chair for the Coalition. At the end of the spring 2005 semester, 832 stu­dents were participating in the Fast. 

"It's been· the most successful of student organizations as far as money raised," she said. "I wish we could promote it more so there would be more educa­tion and so it would be more effective in its collaboration with Food Services." 
The majority of funds raised by the Coalition go to organiza­tions that provide direct hunger relief, such as Oxfam and Catholic Charities, Doughton said. Money is also given to the Council of Indian Nations, local Indiana food banks and Bread for the World, a lobbying group for food issues. Contributions also support World Food Day, an event sponsored by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, Doughton said. 
In 2003, the Coalition donated $2,500 so that educational materials entitled "Feeding Minds, Fighting Hunger" could be translated into Bangia, the official language of Bangladesh. 
"We thought that since Notre Dame contributes to the mis­
sions in 
Bangladesh 

money donated "Perhaps it,s time through Bengal 
for each meal Bouts, our contri­
to [reexamine] this 
may not be the bution could sym­only hitch in the program to see if bolize Notre Fast's current for­Dame's ties,"
there is a better 
mat, Prentkowski Johnson said. 
way ofsacrificing
said. During Lent 
"While the pro­and contributing to last year, the gram has a good this cause. ,, Coalition held cause, and stu­prayer services in dent 'fasting' to Dillon Han to 
Dave Prentkowski 
support that stand in place of eause is noble, the director lunch, Lavorini program was Food Services said. 
more of a sacrifiee in the days prior to the Flex program," he said. 

Prior to the advent of Flex Points, a student had to forfeit a meal in order to donate to the cause. Now, Prentkowski said, Food Services has found a large inerease in traffic at the Huddle and Reekers during Wednesday lunch, indicating that students partic;ipating in the Fast are like­ly still eating luneh. 
"Perhaps it's time to [reexam­ine] this program to see if there is a better way of sacrificing and contributing to this cause," he said. 
While one goal of the Fast is to provide monetary contributions to groups focused on relieving hunger, it is also designed to have an experiential dimension, Johnson said. 
"There is a sense in which you want people to say they're think­ing about people who need food and not to just give away $1.75 and then go spend $5.00 for lunch somewhere else," he said. 
Pete Lavorini, president of Notre Dame's World Hunger Coalition, defended the Fast's value, saying that a student's decision to dine oul'iide the din­ing halls does not diminish his or her contribution to the hungry. 
"Although we would love for it to be a socially conscious sacri­fice that you would fast with those in hunger, that's not going to be the ease all the time," said Lavorini. "But regardless of whether students take their Flex Points and go to Burger King, there is still the same amount of money that goes to charity. There is that same conscious­ness when you ean't eat at the dining hall of those without food." 
The weekly contributions from Wednesday lunch fast partici­pants combine to form a large sum, Lavorini said. 
Donations from Spring 2004 and the 2004-05 academic year totaled $39,000. said Mary Ann About four 
years ago, stu­dents could participate in the Fast without being required to use Wednesday lunch as their sacrificed meal, Johnson said. 
"Thousands of students signed up and everyone missed one meal," he said. "We busted Food Services' bank. They were upset, so the next year they went back and reinstituted the Wednesday Lunch Fast." 
Many students say they would sign up for the Fast if it more money were given for each meal and if any meal during the week could be sacrificed, Doughton said. 
"Food Services said that this is a fast, so it must be done inten­tionally and as something that students are meditating about," she said. 
Sophomore Jen Vogel is not a member of the Coalition, but said that the Fast would hold a far greater appeal if its meal sacrifice were not restricted to Wednesday luneh. 
"Limiting participation to a single meal time each week dis­suades many students from signing up for the Lunch Fast," she said. ''I've talked to numer­ous people who would love to donate a meal, but aren't willing to give up Wednesday lunch." 
The program is designed to yield a donation from the sacri­fice of a specific meal, Prentkowski said. 
"It was not supposed to be a donation of meals that just hap­pened to be uneaten at the end of the week," he said. 
Though students ask fi.Jr larger donations from Food Services, interest in food-related issues is relatively high at Notre Dame, Johnson said. 
"There's quite a but of sensi­tivity to these issues on campus," he said. 
Contact Karen Langley at klangle1@nd.edu 
tion," Johnson said. " That led to the apprehension of a person who
Arrest 
was stealing from campus." Two burglaries were reported in
continued from page 1 
Stanford on the NDSP blotter Tuesday, though they were unre­callPd us with a very good descrip-lated to the arrest. Johnson said 
the man stole nothing from the hall, but that NDSP was grateful for the student's alertness. 
Contact Kate Antonocci at kantonac@nd.edu 



Rate Auto Loansl 
low rate on sed autos­ur competition 
0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us 
to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 



Rebuild lives. 
You can help. Find out how. 
Fall Break Service Trip to the Gulf Coast-Oct. 16-0ct. 21 Sponsored by the Alliance for Catholic Education 
Information Session Thursday 7:00pm Recker's Hospitality Room 
T•..-1 EOBSERVER 




USINESS
Wednesday, September 28, 2005 page 7 

MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

10,456.21 + 12.58

Jones • 
IJP: Same: Down: Composite Volum 

1,397 169 f#S 1,978,114,620 

AMEX 1.712.63 
NASDAQ 1,~§~.84 
NYSE 7,548.65 S&PSOO 1,215.66 +0.03 NIKKEJ(Tokyo) IJ~3JO .04 ·.·· .i•il·!l~j~(!)lll:iil 


FTSE IOO(London) 5,447.30 -5.80 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
JDS UNIPHASE CP UDSU) +8.46 +0.17 2. NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) -0.23 -0.09 38. INTEL CP (INTC) -1.61 -0.39 23. CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -1.12 -0.20 17. MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) +0.28 +0.07 25. 
Ti'easuries 

30-YEAR BOND +0.13 +0.06 45.1 10-YEAR NOTE +0.16 +0.07 43.( 5-YEAR NOTE +0.34 +0.14 41.: 3-MONTH BILL -0.58 -0.20 34.( 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.75 65.0 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -3.30 466.2 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.05 89.3 

Excha Rates 

YEN I 13.33 EURO 0.83 POUND 0.56· CANADIAN$ 1.17: 
~N BRIEF 

Greenspan reassures stockholders 
NEW YOHK-Stocks closed mostly higher Tuesday after Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said the economy has weath­ered the increase in oil prices "reasonably well." 
Earlier in the session, stocks fell after con­sumer confidence hit its lowest point in two years, raising fears that U.S. shoppers might cut their spending and slow the economy. 
But Greenspan calmed investors by empha­sizing "the incredible resilience of the U.S. eeonomy in terms of 11exibility," said Lynn Heaser, chief economist for the investment strategy group at Bank of America. 
Speaking to the National Association for Business Economics in Chicago, Greenspan emphasized that before policy makers r11spond to disasters, markets react through prices, inter11st rates and exchange rates, which work together to cushion the economy. 
That was just what investors wanted to hear aftnr the Conference Board said its con­sumer confidence index dropped even more than analysts expected, falling 18.9 points in Septembflr for a reading of 86.6, down from I 05.5. Economists w11re expecting a reading of !J8. With eonsumcr spending driving the economy, the divn in sentiment after llurrieanes Katrina and !Uta could dampen sales of everything from cars to cashmere. 

WeiiPoint Inc. buys rival WellChoice 
INDIANAPOLIS -WellPoint Inc., the nation's largest health insurer, moved Tunsday to nxpand its roach by acquiring Nnw York-based WnllChoice Inc. in a deal aimnd at boosting businnss with national cornpanins lwadquartnrod around New York City. Doctors wanwd thn deal could be bad for consunwrs. 
The dnal, valund at $6.5 billion in eash and stoek, givns Indianapolis-based WnllPoint an important inroad into tho New York area with 5 million nnw customers and access to nationwide accounts, <:ompany oflicials said. 
lndianapolis-basnd WnllPoint said it would pay $77.2:~ in cash and stock pnr WellChoice sharn, about 9.4 pnrennt more than WniiChoicn's dosing pricn Monday. exncutivn oiTicnr. "Our eombinnd eompanios 
Consumers are spending less 
New home sales decline as Americans worry about the rising cost of living 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Consumer eonl'idence suffered its biggest drop in 15 years in September as Hurricane Katrina made Americans anxious about the rising costs of heating their homes and lilling their gas tanks. The decline raisnd quostions about consumer spending for the rest of this year, including the holiday shop­ping season. 
Meanwhile, the govern­ment reported Tuesday that new home sales plunged in August by the largest amount in nine months, con­tinuing a string of mixed sig­nals about the health of the housing boom. 
Tho Conference Board said its Consumer Confidence Index, compiled from a survey of U.S. house­holds, dropped 18.9 points to 
86.6 from a mvised reading of 105.5 in August. 

That marked the biggest slide since October 1990, when the index fell 23 points to 62.6 amid the onset of the recession, the buildup to the first Gulf war and a spike in houslng market is starting to torate. But in the intervening The drop in consumer gasoline prices. The slow down, but reports so months, he said. the political confidence, which followed September reading was also far are mixed. consequences of consumer an unexpected gain in the lowest level since In Washington, Hepub­anxiety are "real serious." August, also raised eoncerns October 2003, when it regis­licans were assessing the Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., about shoppers' ability to tered 81.7. political impact of the num­said Hepublicans are on the spend in the critieal fall and 
1\nalysts had expected the bers, particularly the drop in defensive. "Any time our holiday seasons with gas September reading to be 98. consumer confidence, saying approval ratings go down we prices nxpednd to remain at 
Wall Street took the news it gives them more reason to have problems. That's why $3 per gallon. That's due to of both reports fairly well. worry about next year's elec­we're working on Katrina. tight supplies and the fact it The Dow Jones industrial tions. That's why we're working on may take weeks to restart average, up about 30 points "These are serious num­Rita," he said. refineries that dosed due to before the index was bers," said Hep. Tom Cole, R­The latest AP-Ipsos Poll, Hurricane Rita. released, finished 12 points Okla., a political operative­conducted Sept. 6-8, showed Even before Katrina higher Tuesday. turned-congressman, refer­more Americans arc unea<>y slammed into tho Gulf Coast 
The Commerce ring to the consumer confi­about President Bush's han­Aug. 29, consumers were Department said new home dence figures. "The question dling of the economy. The struggling to lit higher gaso­sales fell 9.9 percent last is whether this is a trend or poll found that 41 percent of line prices into their budget.<>, rnon th to a seasonally a reaction to Katrina and respondents approved the with that strain showing up adjusted annual rate of 1.24 Rita." president's handling of the in August's modest retail million units. Even with the Cole said he suspects the economy, while 57 percent sales gains. Sales have bonn slowdown, the median sales public's mood will improve disapproved and 1 percent disappointing again this price rose 2.5 percent from by this time next year when were not sure. That rating is month, and analyst.'i am con­July's level to $220,300. The Republicans, who control the lowest since January cerned that eonsumcrs will bigger-than-projected drop Congress and the White ·2002, when lpsos began further retrnnch when they in new home sales could sig­House, will face the judg­tracking Bush's approval rat­start paying home heating nal that the nation's red-hot ment of an uneasy elec-ings. bills. 



Amtrak's new budget raises fares 
vary depending on destinations -its plans a week later to gather more
Associated Press 

are currently discounted at 70 per­input from public olTieials and other 
WASHINGTON -Amtrak on cent. The discount will be adjusted groups. Amtrak backed off its initial Tuesday announced that ticket to 60 percent, Amtrak said. In plan to raise monthly pass fares for prices nationwide would increase an February 2006, that discount will be Northeast Corridor commuters by as average of $3 to $4 starting next adjusted to 50 percent. much as 50 percent. Tuesday. For the approximately 2,000 In July, a bipartisan group of sena­
Acela Express and long distance Smart Pass 10-trip ticket holders tors introduced a bill that would cut coach trains will see a 7 percent fare whose fares are discounted 50 to 60 Amtrak's operating subsidy by 40 increase, while regional and long percent, the discount will be percent. leaving the railroad $:~.] distance sleeper trains will rise by 5 dropped to 20 percent starting Oct. billion in subsidies over six years. percent. Hi. The cuts would bn absorbnd through 
The fare increases were described Starting Oct. 4, Amtrak said it will cost cutting. restructuring and by Amtrak as an important compo­begin to "revenue manage" some reform. nent of its fiscal 2006 budget to Northeast Corridor trains to better Amtrak would reenivn $4.9 billion cover its increases in current and match fares to demand periods to over six years for eapital improvn­anticipated expenses, including the allow passengers traveling at ol'l'­ments, and the proposal would ern­cost of fuel which has risen 40 per­peak times to take advantage of ate a grant program giving states clmt in the past year. lower fares. $1.4 billion for intnr-eity passm1gm· 
Starting Oct. 16, the approximately The fare hikes come at a time rail snrviee. 18,000 Northeast Corridor com­when President Bush has proposed Amtrak recnivnd a $1.2 billion muters who have monthly passes nliminating the railroad's subsidies. subsidy for the eurrnnt yoar. Anotlwr will see a 10 percent increase. The Amtrak initially announced the fare Senate mnasurn would givn Amtrak currently monthly fares -which increases on Sept. 9, but postponnd a $1.4 billion subsidy next ynar. 

Wednesday, Sep[ember 28, 2005 page 9 
The Observer ·• CAMPUS NEWS 
Vatican 
continued from page 1 
smninarins worn a eausn of the scandals. a tlwory lw attributed to "anxi1~ty" in tlw Vatican. 
"Cardinal Batzingm· has taught that thn orientation to homosexu­ality is inhnnmtly disordnrnd, but not sinful." Appleby said, refer­r·i ng to a statement made by the eurnmt l'op1~ Bmwdict XVI in the mid-IIJXOs that sin rnsultnd from acting on. not possessing, a homosexual orientation. 
"l~vnn by tho Church's teaching, this nnw ruling is harsh," Appleby -;aid. 
Appleby said throughout the 20t.h century. whnn priests wern iL'ikml why thny joinml the priest­hood. their "numbnr one reason wm; to savn tlwir immortal souls, whil'.h means to bncome holy and do Christ's work." 
Thn proposed n~stridions arn a com num tary on this eonenpt, Applnby said. 
"What the Chun~h seems to be saying is Christ can transli1rm tho lives of sinrwrs who am hntero­snxual. but not thosn who arc homosexual." he said. 
Both Appleby and MeBrinn dis­a!,'l'OI1d with the lof.,'k behind the Vatican's statmnnnt. 
"It's hard li1r me t.o find a silver lining in !lither the ruling or atti­tude that stands behind it," Appleby said. "Most Catholies in this country know many good priests who are gay, but keep their vows of eelibaey ... Thorn arn so many good and loyal and holy pri11sL-; lwho arn also gay!." 
Likn Appleby, MeBrion took issue with the discord between tho rnstrktions and the Church's distinction view on homosexuali­ty. 
"Unlin'lunatnly, this latest anti­gay campaign senms to imply that mnrnly being gay is enough to exdude one from smninarins and the priesthood, evnn if tho gay person is sexually inaetive," he said. 
MeBrien said the restrictions would "of course" worsen the eurrnnt priest shortage lacing tl10 U.S. 
"II' a signilkant number of gay priests dneide to !nave the priest­hood over this matter and if gays leave the smninaries and others no longer apply for admission, mathematically this will deplete the number or priests and future prinsl-;," he said. 

Neither Appleby nor McBrien thought the number of heterosex­ual eandidates for priesthood would incroasn as a result of the ruling. 
"The problem fi1r hetnrosexual young men is not the gay eulturn of seminaries, but the rule of obi igatory eelibaey," McBrien said. "That gnnie is out of the bot­tle and eannot be put baek in. The Homan Catholic Church will have to addross thn problnm of celibacy openly and o~jnctively or tho prinst shortage will only wors­
nn." 

Appleby said the proposed investigations would be "rare." 
"Thorn arn visitations of semi­naries, but this type of visitation is for diseiplinary purposes, what we might call housekeeping," he said. 
II' nnaetnd, the rPgulations eould require an investigation of Notm Dame's Moreau Seminary. Moreau superior Father Patriek Neary and Moreau seminarian Father J. Steele said they eould not nstimatc the potential impact of the inVIlstigations on Moreau. 
"It's all speculation," Neary said. "I would eaution pnople not to get hysterical since nothing's been published. There's been a lot of emotion over this." 
Speculation about the possibln restrictions has been rising, Stenle said. 
''I've heard these rumors !'or some time ... II" this comes out then we'll have to dnal with it," Steele said. 
While Neary eould not speak to the potential for inernases or dncrnases in the numbnr of candi­dates entering Mornau, he said he "would be concnrned if a statn­ment came out." 
Even though the Church has not released anything of'fieial, Appleby said anticipation of pro­posnd Vatiean investigations had already taken il'i toll on priesl'i. 
"I think many priests, hetero­sexual and homosexual, havn already bonn hurt by the publicity about this visitation," Appleby said. "I ean't imagine it having a positive efTnet on the morale of priesl'i precisely bneauso it would take on tho aspect or a witch hunt." 
Kate Antonacci contributed to this report. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

1n Uganda

SIT Program • 

• Interestedin;4.frica? 
• Interestedin Cfia{{enges d Issues of(]Jeve{oping Nations? 
(Don't miss a stucfy a6roacf opportunity tlirougli tlie Sclioo{ for Intemationa{rr'raining. 

Infonnation ~eeting on: 


THE SPIRIT OF 

rrfiurstfay, Septem6er 29, 2005 CJWom 125:Jfayes -:Jfea{y .Jlt 5:30pm 

1357 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend, IN 46615 574-289-5080 

Lecture 
continued from page 1 
this year's thnmn focuses on "racn, nthnidty, pownr and priv­ilege," as well as "a morn com­prehensivn idea of 'counting,'" filiating to who and what counts in the Anwrieas in both quanti­tative and qualitative terms. 
Adiole and Andnrson expound nd on this co IH~ ll pt Tunsday. 
Anderson presented informa­tion from hor book "Who Counts'?: Tho Polities of Census­Taking in Contemporary Amnrica." 
Andorson represnntod the q uantitativn analysis of "Who Counts in tho United Statns." 
The ennsus is relativo bneauso it has political implieations for all statns, Anderson said, because the population of a statn diroetly corresponds to how many representativllS a specific statn has in Congrnss. If the population of a statn wern to go down. that state would losn a Congrnssman, while anotlwr state whose population rose, would gain a Congressman, she said. II' the ennsus was not taknn correctly, as was tlw rase in the 1990 cnnsus whnn Uw census bureau did not eount nearly 5,000 pnople, thnro could be improper representation in Congress, shn said. 
Andnrson also addi'I1SSI'd questions of how to count pris­onnrs and undocumented citi­zens. Jails arn normally built in rural areas, whil1l prisoners usually eomn from urban areas, she said, and questions arise about whether or not the pris­oners should be eountnd as pno­ple in the urban arna or the rural area. 
Adiele partieipatod in the lec­ture to give a qualitative look at the "Who Counts'?" theme. 
Adiele, author of "Meeting Faith The Forest Journals of a Buddhist Nun," said she has various layers to her identity, which include her bf1ing bira­cial, a female and a human being. She is a first generation 
American whose father  was  
Nigerian  and  mother  was  
Seandanavian.  

She said she was "the only black girl, in a white rural town, with Chieano farm work­ers, on the edge of Native American land." 
This identity has been both a help and a hindranen to Adinle's work as an immigrant advoeatn, a diversity trainer and even as a teacher, she said. 
Adiele said she is seen either "as an exotic ereaturo with no relevance to anyone's life what­soever," or as an American. 
This duality in how people saw her eausnd Adiele to break down mentally, and she said she ordained as a Buddhist nun bneause she "had to strip away everything in order to rebuild I herself)." 
Buddhism allowed her to eome back to sneing herself as just a human, not white and not black, shn said. 
Melendez said that Anderson and Adiele, through their pro­motion racial and eounting issues, arc promoting a loving and peaceful society, a theme of the Sisters of the Iloly Cross the College wishes to promotn. 
Upcoming evnnts involving the first-year themn at Saint Mary's inelude another leeture panel on Nov. 1 dealing with the issue ol' "Who Counts in the Americas," and a panel on Immigration Bights on Oct. 5. 
Contact Elizabeth Ann Harter at eharteO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page 10 Wednesday, September 28, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Tbtt Independent, Daily Newspaper &rving Notre Dame and Snbrt Mn,.Y:r 

Notre Dame's labor question 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDITOR. BusiNESS MANAGER 
Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
ScENE EDITOR: Rama Gonumukkala 
SAINT MAR¥'s EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
Ao DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CONTROlLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB AoMJNlSTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDIJOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
. NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
. OBSERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ,of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is 
As we enter a new era as a univer­sity community we have so many questions to address. How will we respond to new challenges while remaining true to our mission and to the commissioning statement of our founder? How will the questions pro­posed from in and outside our University communi­ty be answered? How will we be a premier research University and main­tain the heart of our mission? 
I am encouraged by the variety of questions and pro­posals we all have been mulling over -especially the ones put forward by Father John Jenkins last Friday, A distinct attention to how our universi­ty can live, thrive and contribute to a world marked by tensions between secular and religious faiths, the need to be relevant nationaHy and to be a place with a distinctive soul for its members and our commitment to give the world not only our thoughts, but also our service are all important issues to think about. 
How Notre Dame will answer these questions will be exciting to see. I call us all to add one more query to that list, one that societies, leaders and thinkers -especially Catholic ones ­have dealt with for years: the labor question, 
I call us to first look around. How did campus transform from its early buildings during Father Sarin's time to the magnificent campus scape we have in Jenkins' time? How did the classrooms, dorms and faculty offices return to clean and orderly states 


Kama ria Porter 
K-Mart's Blue Light Special 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoinr space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USps 599 2-4000) Is puhlisl~d Monday through Fdday cx:o::pr during exam and vacation period~. Asub:sctiption w The Observer Is $100 for one acadenlk yc:ar;$55 !Oronc!itmt$tCI', 
Th~ Observer i~ published at: POSTMASTER 
024 Soudt Dining Hall Send addrt:~s comaiorts. to: 
Notrt Dame. IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Pct:iodi~l postage paid at Notre Dame 'r.o. Box 779 
;md additi\'}na\ mail'mg (li'ficc::.. 024 Suu~h D\11ing Hatl 
Notre Dame, IN 46556.0779 
'fh-c Ob.\ervcr is a member of the As.!iociared PretiS. AI! n..
-prodltction tights ate 
r~erved. 
TODAY'S STAFF 
News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL

Kate Antonacci Matt Puglisi Lisa Schultz Kevin Brennan Kaitlynn Rielly Dan Murphy How have you gotten in Viewpoint Scene 
trouble at Notre Dame? 

Alyssa Ram a Brauweiler Gottumukkala Graphics Brian Doxtader Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. Kelly MacDonald at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
today, and each day? How did the nourishing food we eat get prepared? The source of each of these things is a person with a life, a name, a family and a stake in this Notre Dame family. How are students, faculty and admin­istrators living in relationship to care­takers of this campus? 
I call us next to think about our relationship to our immediate com­munity of South Bend. The relation­ship seems to be a work in progress, trying for something more coopera­tive and respectful. We must first examine the most immediate relation­ship we have with South Bend; staff members who commute from their families, religious congregations and other jobs to Notre Dame and create -and re-create -this beautiful campus. 
There is a de facto relationship between workers, students, faculty and administrators. Each is depend­ent on the others to function, yet each may not be thinking of how to make the other flourish and live in dignity. I know of times where my actions made the work of housekeepers in Welsh Fam-Kim, Jess and Nga-harder. It was a real privilege to work with them during Senior Week to clean and prepare the dorms for parents. The care and -I would say -love these ladies and gentlemen put into making dorms lovely is impressive. Workers to me are the heart of Notre Dame; they keep her running, pumping and growing to what Sorin declared we would be, "one of the most powerful means for doing good in this country." 
Yet, through conversations with workers I have had, there is little rec­iprocity for their love given each day. Many workers on our campus make below a living wage -a concept described by Pope John Paul II as "one that allows the establishment of a family, its proper maintenance and provision for the security of its future." Notre Dame workers also hold separate jobs in South Bend, in hopes to supplement their wages to make it. Prices and the means by which to live in dignity -wages -do not rise equally. Cuts to staff and resources make it harder for people to do their jobs to their own satisfac­tion, depriving them of their vital pride in their labor. 

When I worked at Marshall Fields department store, I spent half my time cleaning and organizing the shop floor; the condition of the shop -I felt-reflected on me. I wanted my customers to feel good about my serv­ice in every way. When the company did not give us all the things we need­ed to do our jobs, I was angry at unnecessary barriers to my job. I was angry that older women who had families made the same wages I did -a 17-year-old looking to supple­ment tuition costs. I was angry when managers and customers demeaned me and my co-workers. I feel the same anger hearing of workers unable to make a good life for their families on Notre Dame's wages. 
Now is the time to think and act big. As we build new places for study and research, campus workers will be the heart of the transformation. How will students, faculty and administrators respond to that vital labor and love? How Notre Dame will answer the labor question is something for each of us to ponder and live out today and each day. 
Kamaria B. Porter is a senior histo­ry major and likes to clap. Email her a kporter@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

ISubmitaLetter 
!::i~~ b ~'d.
1to hetlr1tor at 
it www.Adsmcobserver.co.m
. . . . .. . 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
''The arts are an even better barometer of what is happening in our world than the stock markets or the debates in congress." 
Hendrik Willem Van Loon author and illustrator 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Wednesday, September 28, 2005 
page II 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR U-WIRE 
Rethink some positions 

I fear I must once again take issue with Jan Honderos' Sept. 27 eolurnn, "Liberty for all." First, let me say that I agree with most of the article, and I fully support homosexuals. However, there are a few issues with which I would be so bold as to disagree 
politr~ly. 
First. Hondnros discussns the inseparability of being a homosexual and tlw homosexual act (assuming, of course, that lw nwans homosexual relations). I would agr(H1 that orw cannot be homosexual without Pxpressing it. But the· nxpression or homosnxuality is not limitml to homosexual relations. No, it is much nHire complex than that. For example, thn mnre attraction ol' one pnrson to another of' the same sex is an expression ol' homosexuality. 
Second, Hondnros says that "the essential rnason that gay marriage is illHgal is that the idea terril'ins t.lu~ evangnlical right." Indeed, something so natural, 
i.e. genetic, yet so opposed to nature or t.lw natural way ol' things should terrify all of us. By looking at nature and the animal kingdom, one will sen that, even on such a base )(wei, t.lw male and female gender rompiPment each otlwr and wnrn int(mdnd for mu:h otlwr, especially in terms ol' sexual reproduction. 
But our fear should also call us to snek a deepnr undPrstanding. And we must rwvm· fail in our support for our honwsnxual brothers and sistnrs. As tlw Cate(:hism states, "This inclination, which is objective­ly disordered, constitutes for most ol' them a trial (CCC 235S)." 
Finally, on a smallnr note, I do not concur with Hondnros wlwn hn accuses the most prominent Catholic university in the world of grossly distorting the actual messagn of Jesus. While I am not entirely aware ol' what Alliance ND stands for, I do know that .l!1sus' main message was one of love. 
I am sul'll that no one, upon reading the Gospels with his or her heart, could possibly misinterpret that. 
Andy Bulso 
freshman 
Alumni Hall 
Sept. 27 

Giving it the ol' college try 
Turning 20 was a paltry victory for me. It marked a new decade in my meandering life, but it's still not 21, the magic number for which every underage college student salivates. Unfortunately, I'm still trapped in that bizarre time of life in which one can enlist in the Army, get shipped Jeremy off to a sand-swept foreign Goldmeier land, get his or her leg blown 
University of

off by a rocket-propelled 
Missouri

grenude, return home bitter 
The Maneater

and disillusioned. get shameful­ly exploited in an exelusive interview with Barbara Walters and yet cannot legally ingest alcohol. 
Once again. we have the Puritans to blame for such mind-numbing hypocrisy. I'll bet those fun­damentalist jnrks were never invited to any cool parties back in England. 
Even though I believe eluding death's cruel scythe for 20 years has earned me the right to play a few games of Beirut without having to worry about tho law. I'm still not much of an alcohol fan. As the sound of 20.000 undergradu­ate jaws hitting the f'loor now reaches my ears. it becomes elcar that an explanation is in order. 
First of all. despite tlw ardent elaims of Anheuser-Bush and Miller Brewing. beer indis­putably tastes likn piss. Pleasantly chilled piss, perhaps, but I have little doubt that "hops" is an industry code word for "urea." As for hard liquor, if I wanted my damn esophagus to catch fire, I'd major in MU's nationally accredited fire­swallowing program. 
Besides, the whole concept of getting sloppy drunk as a means of "having a good time" never quite clicked for me. Granted, when college stu­dents get bored, we immediately want to kill as many brain cells as possible to escape the stifling meaninglessness of an academic life. But how is prancing around a friend's apartment, slurring the words to "Hollaback Girl" and intermittently vomiting on the new carpet anything but a deplorable state in which one's most noble traits become hopelessly obscured? Well, actually, it might be kind of liberating, but never mind that. 
So, to prevent such shameful scenes from hap­
pening, tlwre is Alcohol Hesponsibility Month. This is a program so powerless it has already acquiesced to the fact that college kids inevitably will drain six-packs in their spare tinw, so thoy might as well do it judiciously. 
Basically, AHM's mere existence is based on an intricate system of student bribery. Impressionable members of Freshman Interest Groups, residence halls and greek chapters get suckered into attending speeches and panels in exchange for incentive points. The groups who amass the most points receive cash prizes. 
In addition, several AHM evnnts hand out fme food and soda to eacly arrivals, guaranteeing further attendaneH from cheap. perpetually fam­islwd students. Most of theso events follow tho "scarod sober" routine, in which grizzled lwalth officials toll horror stories about aleohol poison­ing and drunk driving wreeks. 
Don't gnt me wrong, I think these events r.an he a positive boon to naive students who might not. rmilizo tho potontial consoquer1cos of hinging with friends. !just find it amusing that ABM seems to try to work within tho alcohol eulturn on campus ratlwr than even attnmpt swooping social changns. 
A tolling oxamplo came during last year's AHM 24-hour walk, when the evnnt's disc jorkny playnd tho Beastio ·Boys track "Brass Monkny." which nssentially is an nxtended advertisnnwnt for one of the trio's favorite alcoholic bovnragns. Responsible. indeed! 
I suppose every student is bound to have orw too many brnws at some point during his or her college career, and perhaps the misery ol' sueh an experience would provn to be tho most power­ful deterrent to boozing. Shouldn't wn all he allowed one night of obscenn innbriation in our formative years, so as to deglamorize aleohol consumption? llell, I'd drink to that. 
This column originally appeared in the Sept. 2 7 issue of The Man eater, the daily publication at the University ofMissouri. 
The views expressed in this editorial are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
America needs to play language catch-up 
Ninety-nine percent of citizens in Luxembourg arn bilingual. Yes, in this tiny country. barely on the map, 99 pnrcent of people have the ability to travel to a different eountry and con­verse. 
That means rieh 
Katherine and old, smart and Kirkpatrick not-so-smart. educat­
University of

ed and uneducated. 
Southern

What a proud distinc­
California 

tion. 
Daily Trojan

A rncnnt European Union study, released Friday, has found that nearly half' of all EU citizens share Luxembourg's distinction. In fact, the lowest country, II ungary, ranks in at 29 percent of eitiznns speaking two lan­guages, but the average is nearer to 50 pnrcent. 
Shocking, isn't it? Especially when you consider that only nine percent of Americans aro fluent in a second lan­guage -only nine percent of Americans are as accomplished as Luxombourgers. 
And wo call ourselves the most advanced country in the world? How ean we be sueh a superpower when we are obviously so isolated and so igno­rant'? No wonder American tourists worldwide are either coddled or ignored-we don't bother to under­stand anyone nlse. 
In fact, having spnnt a semester abroad, I was disgusted by the attitude of some Americans I encountered. While in countries such as Greece and France, I attempted to master the basics. I joyously hollered "Ef-eha-ri­sto!" and "Par-a-kal-o" in Athens and "Bon-joured" my way through Paris. 
But my American counterparts were not always as willing. The attitude was that of contented security. It seemed as if many Americans didn't even attempt to broaden their cultural experience with even the most elementary grasp of the language. 
They just assumed (and many times they were right) that everyone would speak E·nglish. And when they encoun­tered those who didn't or wouldn't, they just shrugged it off, saying it was tho "foreigners"' loss, that they were behind the times. 
After all, everyone speaks "American," so why should we even try to learn anything else? 
Maybe it's a symptom of English con­tentment-our language is the most prevalent, so we have no need to leam another. 
Then why, exactly, do 30 percent of United Kingdom citizens speak at least two languages fluently, compared to our pathetic nine? Scots, Brits and the Welsh population feel the need to be schooled in other languages -is it because they're closer to different cul­tures? 
Then why doesn't everyone in Southern California, Texas or Florida speak Spanish? 
It's not just a matter of convenience or necessity. either. The survey states that the top second language is indeed English, hut the second most prevalent is German and the third is French. 
So it's definitely not just a matter of' specifically catering the education to what is most convenient or helpful; it's more a matter of embracing another culture. 

It's not entirely our fault, personally, as American students. I was one of' the lucky ones-I settled on a foreign lan­guage in the seventh grade and contin­ued it straight on through junior year of' college, so I'm moderately proficient. But those who didn't start learning lan­guages until high school or didn't have additional language requirements did­n't "need" to learn. Therefore, they never did. 
After all, if you go to USC and m<\jor in journalism, you are obliged to take a couple years of languages, but if you're a business major, then you're free to exercise only English. 
Is it just apathy? 
Or is it just the feeling of being unconcerned or oblivious to the inter­national community? 
Part of me blames our educational system. Of course Europeans know so many languages -many curriculae begin foreign language in elementary school. Students are encouraged to take extra classes, after-school pro­grams or tutelage in their chosen sec­ond language. 
Many schools in Europe require for­eign language through a child's entire academic career -when faced with that broadening education, of course their citizens are bilingual. And count­less studies have shown that it's far easier to pick up a second language when a student is young. So when American high school students begin to learn the French alphabet at the ripn age of 14, cun we blame them for struggling? 
Can we blame them for nnver master­ing their chosen languagn wlwn many high schools don't require foreign lan­guage for even a measly four years'? 
My high school only required us to take two years of fornign language. If you started in junior high and eontin­ued through junior and senior year, you started qualifying for AP tests, evnn if "AP" didn't even qualify as fluent. 
It's a strike against Amnriea to be so statistieally imperialistic. Wn daim to be the melting pot, thr~ nation ol' immi­grants, the country that embraens all cultures and mixes them together. But when did we beeome the plaee to assimilate or eliminate? When did wn become this cocky, ignorant sea of Americans who choose to rnfuse to enlighten ourselves? 
Frankly, I've never used my foreign language. I still plan to travel to Germany -I never got there while I was abroad. But I'm comforted by the fact that I am part of America's nine percent. And I only wish that that num­ber coulrf\resemble Luxembourg's. 
It's a number of distinction. 
This column originally appeared in the .'·)ept. 27 issue of the Daily Trojan. the daily publication at the l lnit•ersity ofSouthern California. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Obsenwr. 


THE OBSERVER 
page 12 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Witherspoon breathes life into latest romantic comedy 

of movieweb.com David Abbott (Mark Ruffalo) falls in love with the spirit of Elizabeth Masterson (Reese Witherspoon) in Mark Waters' "Just Like Heaven." 

lines which are in turn1 ridiculous, offensive and hilarious, all the while con-
acting alone when
Just Like Heaven
actress is ideal others do not see for the role of 
Elizabeth. Elizabeth, the The supporting· workaholic cast, although hav­physician. ing much less Director: Mark Waters
After putting screen time, is 
Writers: Peter Tolan and Leslie Dixon 
in a 26-hour equally successful. day, she leaves Starring: Reese Witherspoon, Mark Donal Logue is 
Ruffalo, Donal Logue and Billy Beck 
for her sister, highly amusing as 


By ERIN MCGINN Scene Critic 
"Just Like Heaven" is an enjoyable romantic comedy, even though it has very few unique ideas of its own. It is a successful blend of numerous other "chick flicks" that have come before it, from "Ghost" to "City of Angels," and even borrows from classic stories like "Sleeping Beauty." While it is not entirely original, it is still an excellent movie due to the enjoyable perform­ances of its stars and supporting cast, solid writing, and direction by Mark Waters ("Mean Girls," "Freaky Friday"). 
Reese Witherspoon is well-estab­lished in the arena of romantic comedy, having starred in genre films such as "Sweet Home Alabama." The 
Abby's (Dina Spybey) house to meet a blind date. While on the way there, Elizabeth is hit by an oncoming truck. 

David (Mark Ruffalo) unknowingly rents Elizabeth's San Francisco apart­ment due to its comfortable couch. He spends all his time on the couch until Elizabeth appears and demands that he leave her apartment. Unsure if he is just drunk or crazy, he tries to ignore her ghostly presence as long as he can. 
Though his psychiatrist friend Jack (Donal Logue of the television show "Grounded for Life") tries to convince him that he's crazy, David suspects oth­erwise and heads to the local occult bookstore for more information. There he meets psychic Darryl (Jon Heder of "Napolean Dynamite"). David tries exorcism and even a ghost-busting company to rid the apartment of Elizabeth. Since he is the only one able to see her, he finally agrees to help her solve the mystery of her haunting, since she selectively remembers things about her past. 
Together the pair tries to get to the bottom of the matter and inevitably fall in love with each· other in the process. In an interesting twist, Elizabeth is defined in the movie by Darryl as a spirit, not a ghost -in other words, she's not actually dead, having not "crossed over" to the other side. 
The movie never takes itself too seri­ously, and it even manages to light­heartedly address the life-death issues that arose regarding the Terry Schiavo case last spring. 
Reese Witherspoon is in her element and breathes life into Elizabeth, mak­ing her believable. These kind of roles are familiar territory for the actress, who manages to make the character warmly charming rather than merely bizarre. Mark Ruffalo deftly handles much of the comedic elements of the 
movie, successfully 
David's psychiatrist 
and friend who is worried about his friend's mental health. Jon Heder is a riot as the psy­chic who understands David's plight, but is also able to see things from Elizabeth's point of view. He becomes David's advisor and link to the super­natural world. 
Mark Waters adeptly directs the romantic comedy, which could have easily headed too far toward cliche. The screenplay, adapted from Mark Levy's best-selling 2001 book "If Only It Were True," does not cover much new ground, but it is clever enough to over­come its flaws. 
"Just Like Heaven" succeeds thanks to the charisma of its stars and the solid writing and directing. While it's not particular original or groundbreak­ing, it doesn't try to be. Instead, it's simply one of the best romantic come­dies in recent memory and one of the better films of the year. 
Contact Erin McGinn at emcginn@nd.edu 

the calories, not quite funny enough. Marge Simpson, despite sporting a blue coiffure resembling the Leaning Tower of Pisa, is overmatched by Peter's wife Lois. Sparring siblings Bart and Lisa, meet Chris and Meg. 
And baby Maggie, you are officially the weakest link, especially when compared to baby Stewie, the matricidal master­mind with the Napoleonic complex and sophisticated vocabulary. As far as quirky neighbors go, "Family Guy" sees The Simpsons' Ned Flanders and raises Cleveland, Quagmire and Joe. This is not to downplay the success and staying power of the Simpsons; the show set the precedent for animated family comedy on cable TV. "Family Guy" basically beats the Simpsons at their own game. 
"Family Guy," the brainchild of cre­ator/producer Seth McFarlane, is easily the most irreverent, disrespectful and downright insulting show on television ­and is also the funniest. Throwing politi­
fident that at least a few of his eclectic rounds will find their mark. 
That "Family Guy" is a cartoon allows McFarlane to get away with things in the animated medium that would earn him an NC-17 rating or outright censure in live-' action form. There is no denying Seth McFarlane's comedic genius-in addition to writing and directing the show, he voic­es the characters of Peter, Brian, Stewie and Quagmire. He is matched by Alex Borstein, who, in her own words, voices "70 percent" of all the female characters on the show, including Lois, Asian corre­spondent Tricia Takanawa, and female news anchor Barbara Pewterschmidt. 
"Family Guy" was canceled by Fox, but overwhelmingly positive response to the DVDs helped bring it back. The show made its triumphant return to network television last May, and new episodes are slated to air on Sunday, Nov. 6 at 8 p.m. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrewl@nd.edu 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Wednesday, September 28, 2005 
page 13 

DVD REVIEW 
By TAE ANDREWS 
Scene Wrilrr 
'Tamily (;uy Volume 2: Season Thn~l' .. is a triumphant triumvirate of' cartoon mayhmn. cornpletn with bonus f'«Htturns such as commnntaries from «:reator Seth McFarlane, dnletnd scenes and an unaired •~pisode which was pulled f'rom the air by Fox after it was considered too of'l'ensive, even by "Family <;uy" standards. 
What makes "Family Guy" such an «mtertaining show is its f'amily dynam­ic; it f'«HLtures a bizarrn ensemble of' characters which havn remarkable conwdie depth and interact with each otlwr in hilarious ways. Peter is gn~at as a rotund man's man, cheerfully spouting ofT of'f'ensivn epithets with htH~r in hand. lie is complemented per­fectly by his wife Lois' nasal delivery and periodic outbursts or violence. 
Seth (;reen's voicing of Chris is hys­terical. as lw intnrjeets with comments that dtHtrly illustratn that he's not the coldest bnt~r in the fridge. Meg is a veri­table f'amily midden-everyone dumps abusP on the poor girl. Throughout tlw episodes shn is a lightning rod for ver­bal punishmtmt from her family mem­hnrs. Brian also delivers some great I inns as a caninn Henaissance man ... or would it bn Hnnaissancn man's best friend'? Baby Stewin 's diabolical plans to eliminate his own mother and con­solidate his despotic rule over the world arn sure to havn the audience in stitdws. . 
And then, of' course, there are the rwighbors: thn testosterone-laced he­man rants of' paraplegic Joe, Cltwnland's d1~adpan deliveries, and the pnrvnrted <)uagmire, who McFartane d1~scribns as "a dnspkable sex maniac who's just a disgusting human being and therefore hysterically funny." 
Tlw show's third season features 
more than its fair share of' rnmnorable moments. SomP highlights indudo: 
+ 
Brian's brief' stint as a police K-9 bef'orn dnvnluping an addiction to corainn in "The Thin White Linn." 

+ 
An autumnal invasion of' the rural Quahog community by stereotypieal · New Yorkers grubbing after some New England foliage. In the episode "Lethal Weapons," Lois takes up Tae-Jitsu, whieh leads to a painful windowpane mishap for neighbor Quagmire, prompting an 1~morgeney phone call to the authorities. ("llello, 911 '? It's Quagmire. Yoah ... yoah, ynah... it's in a window this time.") 

+ 
In "From Method to Madness," Mng brings horne a nudist boyfriend, only to incite a nubile rnsponsc from her par­«mts. This episode is also privy to one of ~tm-~io Griffin's infamous "sexy par­lies. 

+ 
Will Ferrell takns. a hilarious turn as tho Blaek Knight in "Mr. Saturday Knight," in whieh he voieos a jealous paladin who challenges Poter to a joust after he linds Griffin f'lirting with his girlfriend, Madnleine. 


The Bonus Features on the box set are also awesome. "When You Wish Upon a Weinstein," tho aforementioned rogue episode which was censored, fol­lows Peter's journey from the dredges of anti-Semitism to a more complete ethnic understanding. It's easy to understand why this episode is cen­sored, as this is proba­bly the most offensive "Family Guy" episode made. 
The featurntte "Uncel'!sored" is hilari­ous, as it discusses the delicate relationship Seth McFarlane has with the network exec­utives who keep him 
!;}J1JI]J
honest. "I think I can safely say that thanks to censors, the show probably stands as the single edgiest show that's ever been on primetime network TV and we're pretty proud of' that," he said. 

McFarlane acknowledged that, after years of' pushing the envelope, he may have lost his ability to discern the eomedie from the oll'ensive. 
"Working on a show with the kind of hours we did, where we were there until three or four in the morning, you're guaranteed to lose objectivity as far as what's tasteful and what's not," he said. "In that sense, it's helpful to have the censors come in and say, 'OK, you guys know that this isn't funny and is just going to piss people orr... 
The pilot episode is also definitely worth ehecking out, as it is amusing to see the production quality of the show's original animation. Even with less-pol­ished artwork, the same vein of' humor that runs throughout other episodes permeates the pilot. 
The commercial success of the "Family Guy" DVDs allowed the show to make a Lazarus-like comeback from the grave. After being cancelled, suc­cessful DVD sales of the show's first three seasons convinced Fox network exeeutives to bring "Family Guy" back. The Griffins are back, and they are here to stay. 
Contact Tae Andrews at tandrew1@nd.edu 

.., .\ 'j)
./..;~JJ' .... 
j~,iJ-.!J.t 
Peter Griffin 
The rotund father of the Griffins, 
Peter is the racist, sexist 
patriarch of the household. An 
unapologetic chauvinist, he is 
armed wfth an endless arsenal 
of one-liners. 
Lois Griffin 
The wife and mother of the 
Griffins, Lois' usual matriarchal 
calm Is sometimes punctuated 
by moments of jnsanlty, most 
notably in the episode 11 Lethal 
Weapons." Regardless, she is 
the glue that holds the family 
together. 
Stewle Griffin 
The matricidE!-opsessed baby of the family, Stbwie has a Napoleonic complex qnd on In­explicable British accent. His plans for world domination are often thwarted by Lois' motherly protection. 
.Brlan Griffin 
·The talking, deadpan dog, who 
often acts as a foil to Peter. 
Brian has had his own share of 
problems, most noJabty a 
cocaine addiction. He often 
acts as the volee of reason In 
the family, both to Peter and to 
Stewie (all of whom are voiced 
by Seth McFartane). 
p .
Griffin 
7Vpopularlty·obsessed Inse­
cure teenage daughter, Meg Is 
a veritable family midden ­
everYone dumps abuse on the 
poor girl. Throughout the 
episodes she Is a lightning rod 
for verbal punishment from her ·..family members. 
Chris Griffin 
The pimply-faced teenage son, Chris Is not the sharpest tool in the shed. While Chris struggles to take himself seriously, his admiration for his father does little to help the situation. 



THE OBSERVER 
CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, September 28, 2005 
DPAC SPOTLIGHTS 
Silent 1928 masterpiece comes to DPAC 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Assistant Scene Editor 
Carl Theodor Dreyer's "La Passion de Jeanne d'Arc" ("The Passion o( Joan of Arc") is hands-down the finest silent motion picture of all time. The French­Danish film was a landmark upon its 1928 release the pinnacle of silent movies, even as sound (the so-called "talkies") was beginning to take over. Yet, its sophisticated style and surpris­ingly emotional weight makes "The Passion of Joan of Arc" resonate just as effectively today, a startling and amazing accomplishment considering the film's considerable age. 
"The Passion of Joan of Arc" follows the trial and execution of Joan of Arc (played here by Henee Falconetti), 

using the ·actual The Passion of Joan of Arc vention. trial transcripts as 
Much of the 
the screenplay. The film's success limited scope of the attributable to film allows for Renee Falconetti, Dreyer's innovative Director: Carl Theodor Dreyer whose Joan was style, which uses Venue: Performing Arts Center praised by noted off-centered fram­Time: Saturday, Oct. 1, 2005, at 3 p.m. critic Pauline is often a juxtaposition of extreme-close­ups, of faces that fill the screen and dominate the picture. None of the actors wore makeup, making their facial imperfections all the more striking. Joan looks terrified and innocent, while the judges often look terrifyingly demonic. Few films are as bravely (or brazenly) direct as "The Passion." 
Modern viewers, who often expect silent pictures to be slow or tawdry, might be surprised at the sophistication and solid pacing of "The Passion of Joan of Arc." Dreyer's work is occasionally dismissed as sluggishly plotted, but the rapid editing and emotional investment in "The Passion" transcend such criti­cism. The director never made a film as strong as this again, as his talking pic­tures are weighted down by the. 
restraints of dia­
logue and con­

ing, extreme close­ups and the moving camera to great effect. The harsh light­ing and tightness of the cinematography allow the viewer to relate to Joan's predicament, which grants greater emo­tional weight to the film's inevitable con­clusion. The film's dizzying, fragmented style is initially jarring, but ultimately fits the film's narrative. 
Director Ingmar Bergman once claimed that the human face is the most important thing that can be committed to celluloid -he may have had "The Passion of Joan of Arc" in mind. The film 
Kael as "the 
finest perform­ance ever recorded on film." In a role later covered by Ingrid Bergman, Jean Seberg and Milia Jovovich (among many others), Falconetti stands above them all, exacting a powerful and meticulous performance in her only screen role. Dreyer wanted to evoke how the real Joan might have actually felt at the trial, and subsequently took so many takes that he drained much of the emotion out of Falconetti, ultimately resulting in a more realistically effective performance. 
The film itself was long considered lost in a fire, but a print was found in the mid-1980s in the broom closet of a European mental institute. The print has since been restored, and will be screened this weekend in the Browning Cinema as part of The PAC Classic 100. 
Carl Theodor Dreyer's "The Passion of Joan of Arc," along with F.W. Murnau's 1927 "Sunrise: A Song of Two Humans" and Charlie Chaplin's 1931 "City Lights," was simultaneously the valediction and pinnacle of silent cinema. While those films have their supporters, the style, timelessness and emotional resonance of "The Passion of Joan Arc" is indis­putable. The cinema is rarely as power­ful and effective as it is here. One of the inarguable masterpieces of cinema, "The Passion of Joan of Arc" is one of the greatest films of all time and should not be missed. 

Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
Belgian director's 'Hop' stum_bles despite strong start 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Assistant Scene Editor 
Dominique Standaert's "Hop" starts strong, but gradually loses its way until its charm and humor become obscured by its implausibility. The black and white Belgian film, shot digitally, was a success on the film festival circuit, despite the many problems that arise in the second and third acts. 
"Hop" follows Justin (Kalomba Mbuyi) and his father Dieudonne (Ansou Diedhiou), two ille­gal aliens living in Brussels. Justin taps into a neighbor's tagonist. 
The strangeness of film pulls "Hop" closer to "Home Alone" than "The 400 Blows,"which is really a shame, since it had a lot of unexplored potential. 
Still, there are several excellent moments throughout. The interaction between characters is often quite good, as Frans and Gerda form a sort of stand­in family for Justin as he searches for his father. Both characters sidestep cliches, which is welcome since many of the other characters fall into 6Uch trappings. Some of them, most notably the authori­ties and the neighbor, are more carica­
Hop 
tures than true 

cable TV to watch a 
characters, soccer match. When which delineates he is found out, his the dichotomy father is detained, between the
Director: Dominique Standaert 

though Justin "good guys" and
Venue: Performing Arts Center 

escapes and finds the "bad guys"
Time: Thursday, Sept. 29, 2005, at 7 p.m.

refuge with two rad­too cleanly.
and 10 p.m.

ical leftists, Frans (Jan Decleir) and Gerda (Antje De Boeck). With their help, he seeks to free his father, who has been deported to the Congo. 
This premise holds a lot of promise, but Standaert doesn't explore the themes he presents as fully as he might have. The later acts, in which Justin begins his own reign of terror, stretch suspension of disbelief to the breaking point, especially since he seems to have a MacGuyver­esque resourcefulness (he builds a bomb and trigger out of dynamite, a K'Nex set and two cell phones). Justin's turn to ter­rorist methods to free his father is a little discomforting since he is clearly the pro-
Matters of 
race, conscience and ideology seem to play a prominent role in "Hop," but the film's conclusion wraps everything up too neatly for those themes to carry any true resonance. While the film seems to be moving toward one resolution, the director sud­denly jerks it in a different, largely unwelcome direction, as it he's afraid of following through on the film he's started to make. It almost seems as if Standaert wasn't true to his instincts, and tried to make something that would please his audience, rather than follow through to the film's logical conclusion. 
Additionally, "Hop" is never sure if it wants to be a drama or a comedy, and the two genres mix with uneven results. There are aspects of "Hop" which are quite funny, but the film seems to take itself too seriously to be considered mere comedy. At the same time, it is not self­aware or introspective enough to be a proper drama, which it often seems to lean toward. 


The acting is quite good throughout. Kalomba Mbuyi is clearly a talented young actor, and he carries much of the film. As Justin, he manages to portray a wide scope of emotions, and his charis­ma and screen personality is engagingly watchable. Antje De Boeck may give the best performance in the film as Gerda, whose concern for Justin and love for Frans is strikingly emotional. 

"Hop" falls short of its potential, but it's by no means a bad film. While view­ers might wish that it explored its themes a little deeper, writer-director Dominique Standaert demonstrates his filmmaking potential and establishes himself as a significant talent. "Hop" will be screened on Thursday at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. as part of the Nanovic Film Series. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
r-----------------------­Wednesday, September 28, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page I'5 
Don't forget about MOVIES in the BROWNING CINEMA 
Caii631-FILM for a recorded list of this week's showings! 
-
GET YOUR IRISH UP BEFORE THE PURDUE GAME 
THE ORIGINAL AMBASSADOR OF IRISH MUSIC! 
TOMMYMAKEM 
AND HIS SONS 
THEMAKEM 
BROTHERS 
GREAT SEATS STILL AVAILABLE! 
FRIDAY, SEPT. 30,8 PM . LEIGHTON CONCERT HALL STUDENT TICKETS: $15 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 28, 2005 
WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL-BLUE LEAGUE 

Walsh moves to 3-0 with 20-0 win over Lyons 
Cavanaugh remains unbeaten behind dominant defense; Rambo's last minute pick lifts Lewis over winless Howard 
By CHRIS HINE, JAY 
FITZPATRICK and TIM 
KAISER 
Sporrs Wrirers 
Quarterback Mary Sullivan went 12-20, throwing for 108 yards and two touchdowns to lead the Wild Women· of Walsh Hall in a 20-0 victory over Lyons Tuesday night. Walsh preserves its undefeated record at 3-0 while Lyons drops to 1-3. 
The win was not without some concern for Walsh. Late in the second half, Sullivan hobbled off the field with a hamstring injury. But after the game, she was walking fine. 
''I'll ice it down and I'll be good to go for the next game," she said. 
Any hopes for a comeback by Lyons were crushed early in the second half when Emily Williams intercepted quarter­back Kim Murphy and returned the pick 20 yards for a touch­down. After the PAT, Walsh led 20-0 and kept it that way the rest of the game. 
Lyons' best opportunity to score came on its final drive with 10 minutes left in the game. Murphy, who rotated quarterback duties with Lynn Truitt, found Shannon Brady for a 30-yard gain to the Walsh 30. Lyons then used a pair of runs and a Walsh penalty to get to the 8-yard line. But the Walsh defense held and forced a turnover on downs. The next drive for Walsh lasted eight plays and used all but 10 sec­onds of the remaining time. 
Walsh's offense set the tone for the game on its second pos­session. Beginning on its own 9­yard line, Walsh drove 71 yards on nine plays, while using most of the clock in the process. On the drive, Sullivan went 3-of-5 passing, eventu·ally finding Marie Brenner on a 5-yard shovel pass for the score. The PAT failed and Walsh led 6-0. 
After stopping Lyons on its subsequent drive, Walsh started its next drive on its own 38 with 
1:32 remaining in the half. Sullivan then completed four straight passes, including an eight-yard touchdown to Sarah Thomas as the half ended. The PAT made it 13-0 at the break. 
All night, Walsh executed complicated shovel passes, options and double options with ease. 
"Our team has been well­focused," head coach Brian Burkavage said. "The coaches were very well-prepared. We have some creative offensive minds who play more video games than real football. They come up with some interesting plays." 
Lyons' defense was on the field most of the game because Walsh ate u1tso much of the clock when it had the ball. 
"They make me proud," offen­sive coordinator Chase Gund said. "We played a lot better than Sunday. It's hard to score when you only have the ball four times." 

Walsh co-captains Patty Rose and Mary Ellen Botta say part of the key to their success is a focus on the basics. 
"We work on fundamentals and have fun," Botta said. "Walsh football equals fun." 
Both Walsh and Lyons will battle Cavanaugh in their next respective games. 
Cavanaugh 13, Badin 0 
Late in the second half Tuesday, Cavanaugh quarter­back Lisa Ruffer threw a seven­yard pass to wide receiver Elisa Suarez in the corner of the end zone for the Chaos' second touchdown of the day, cement­ing Cavanaugh's (3-0) win over the Badin Bullfrogs (1-2). 
Earlier in the drive, Cavanaugh was backed up for a second and long following a sack by Bullfrog defensive line­man Katie Jackson, but Ruffer threw a 35-yard pass to give the Chaos first and goal on the Badin 10-yard line. 
Badin:s offensive ineffective­ness in the early part of the first half provided the Cavanaugh offense consistently good field position, and an interception returned for a touchdown by Lauren Manning gave Cavanaugh an early 6-0 lead. 
In the first half, both defenses dominated. Badin stopped Chaos drives on fourth-and-goal twice early in the first half, denied Cavanaugh's extra point attempt after the Manning touchdown and had a shutout going against the Cavanaugh offense until late in the second half with the Suarez touchdown. 
In their hopes to catch up with the Chaos, the Bullfrog offense had two promising drives ended by interceptions by Chaos defen­sive backs Lizzy Brown and Kerri Bergen. 
"They stepped up when they needed to step up," Chaos head coach Hunter Craig said. "When they needed a score, they got one. When they needed a defen­sive stop, they got one." 
Despite the turnovers, the Badin offense still performed well on the field, with good com­pletions by freshman quarter­back Katie Rose Hackney, solid yardage gained by tailback/wide receiver Courtney Rains and some clutch, as well as acrobat­ic, catches by receiver Lizzi Shappell. 
"We played less than ideal, but it was against a good team," Badin captain Meg Charlebois said. "We just didn't catch the breaks." 
But in the end, the Bullfrogs failed to convert a crucial fourth down in the closing minutes of game, giving Cavanaugh the ball back with enough time to kneel down and let the clock run out. 
On Sunday, Badin will play Howard and Cavanaugh will play undefeated Walsh. 
Lewis 6, Howard 0 

With just minutes left to play, Lewis came through with two big plays to deny Howard its first win of the season Tuesday. 
Senior quarterback Elisa 
Valdez hit Katie Klune for a touchdown with less than three minutes left in the second half. Lewis' conversion attempt !'ailed, but Becky Rambo stopped Howard on its following drive with the game's first inter­ception to seal the win for the Chicks. 
Lewis' score was the first of the game, a contest marked by strong defensive play and sloppy offense, with both teams suffer­ing ·from penalties, dropped passes and receivers slipping on the evening dew. 
Neither team mustered a drive that even came close to the end zone during the first half. The offenses, though unsuccessful, did not turn over the ball at all, neither fumbling nor throwing interceptions, and staying con­servative by punting on fourth down. 
"1 was really proud of how they pulled it off in the end; it was a heck of a win," Lewis coach Jay Murphy said. 
Evan Walsh, head coach of the Ducks, said he also was "extremely" proud of his team, espeeially his coaching staff and his seniors, Callie Whelan, Henee Alessi and Sheena Ketchum. 
Howard was disappointed at falling to 0-3, but is determined to improve, and Lewis was glad to even out its record at 2-2. 
Contact Chris Hine at 
chine@nd.edu, Jay Fizpatrick at 
jfitzpaS@nd.edu and Tim Kaiser 
at tkaiser@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Kelbley leads Irish past Loyola Chicago vvith 24 kills 
Notre Dame coasts to easy three-game victory over Ramblers and records season-high .385 hitting percentage 
for kills in a three-game match need to play at their level and over the court, with a team-high Notre Dame was lOth out of 15 By TOM DOWART 
-leading No. 10 Notre Dame not to the level of their competi­22 digs. Freshman Justine teams in the Big East in hitting Sporrs Wrirer 
(9-1) to a 30-15, 30-15, 30-24 tion, the Irish kept their word, Stremick played again and had percentage. For five consecutive 
shellacking of Loyola Chicago (3-making quick work of the upset­one block. Twelve Irish played in matches, the Irish had hit below 
Often overshadowed by her 1 0) in the Irish's first visit to minded, confident Ramblers. the match, including senior Kelly .205, but now seem to have fixed All-American, preseason Big Chicago since the 1996 season. Once again, sophomore setter Burrell, freshmen Mallorie Croal the problem. East player of the year team­Kelbley -who at times does­Ashley Tarutis paced the offen­and Madison Clarke and sopho­Notre Dame returns to Big mate, senior Lauren Kelbley has n't draw the attention attracted sive attack. She had 41 set more Ellen Heintzman. East action Friday at Syracuse quietly been putting up All­by teammate senior Lauren assists. Carolyn Cooper and Overall, the Irish hit for a sea­and Sunday at Marquette, in American numbers of her own Brewster -smoked four service Brewster added 10 and 11 kills. son-high .385 percentage -a what is the middle of a tough all season. aces, dove for five digs, recorded respectively. Sophomore statistic that has been skyrocket­road stretch. 
Tuesday, she wasn't so quiet. four blocks and erred on only Adrianna Stasiuk also had six ing the last few matches after 
Kelbley erupted for 24 kills -two hit attempts. kills. sitting at .200 prior to Sunday's Contact Tom Dorwart at one kill shy of the school record After discussing in practice the Senior Meg Henican was all Seton Hall match. At that point, tdorwart@nd.edu 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 f.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cenrs per characrer per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr ro edir all classifieds for conrenr wirhour issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR RENT 

Local family needs Single/married faculty/staff. BLUE & GOLD HOMES. part-time caregiver for Own a lovely home near ND Best rates for weekend, monthly & LOST & FOUND five-month-old boy. for less than you pay for rent. yearly rentals. 574-250-7653. TICKETS PERSONAL 
Flex weekday schedule available. Believe it! Call Dale (574) 243-9547 Man s ND class ring Must love children & have ot 2JQ-Q16J Qoldw!lll Elao~!lt HOMES FOR RENT. WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? at Castlepoint Apts. MSU weekend. experience caring for infants. KRAMER PROPERTIES TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. Do not go it alone. Call Judy at 272-811 0 References req. HAS HOMES AVAILABLE If you or someone you love needs to ideotifll Bs ~:<laim Transportation necessary. RANGING FROM 3 BDRMS FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. confidential support or assistance, 
Call (574)271-0747. UPTO 10 BDRMS. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB-please call Sr. M.L. Gude, CSC, GREAT HOUSES CLOSE TO ND. SITE FOR$$: at 1-7819. For more information,WANTED ALL STUDENTS GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. www.victorytickets.com see our bi-weekly 
Part Time Work andersonNDrentals.com CALL KRAMER FOR SHOWINGS -ad in THE OBSERVER. Alpha Graphics is seeking $12.25 base/appt. OFFICE 234-2436; CELL 315-5032 BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT-full & p/t employee for Flexible schedules around classes, Lakeside,MI cottage. BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. Spring Break 2006. customer service, digital archiving Gain exp. in customer sales & Perfect for ND game weekends. Rooms in private home 273-3911. Travel with STS, America s #1 
& bindery work. service, Conditions apply, 7732182203 for rent during ND football Student Tour Operator Apply at 201 N. Main, SB. all ages 17 & older, weekends or other ND-SMC Need 4 tix to any football game. to Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, 
Call Todal£574·273-3835. Free room/board, events. Call ·243-0658. Call Jack 574-674-6593. Bahamas and Florida. INTERNET WORK! male,chores/tasks Now hiring on-campus reps. $8.75-$38.50/Hr. aixcertified@ hotmail.com HOUSES FOR RENT WANTED: 4 GAs for USC game. Call for group discounts. Flexible schedule. FoR SALE 2,3,4,5,6 Bedrooms includes all Call203-261·8717 Jim. Information/Reservations PT/FT/Summer. YEA! COLLEGE PARK utilities,local phone, washer/dryer, 1-800·648-4849 or Use any computer. 1 bdrm condo near ND. has apartments available security system. $400/student. WANTED:ND-USC football tix. TOP www.ststravel.com $25 Bonus! All appliances.$69,000. for 06-07 school year. Office 234-9334, Cell315-2509 $$$ PAID. CALL 574-232-2378 Studentsurveysite.com/NotreDame Call Kim Kollar 574-280-8160. Call today 235-7234. ndstudentrentals.com AM. 574-288-2726 P.M. The Venga Bus is coming 

OUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, September 28, 2005 CoMPILED FROM T!-·IE OBSERVER's WIRE SERVICES page 17 
Major League Baseball 
American league East 

tnam rncord pore . last 10 GB Boston 92-64 .590 7-3 New York 92-64 .590 8-2 Toronto 76-80 .487 4-6 16 Baltimore 70-86 .449 1·9 22 Tampa Bay 66-91 .420 6-4 26.5 
American League Central tnam rneord pHrc. last 10 GB Chicago 94-63 .599 5-5 
Cleveland 92-65 .586 7-3 2 Minnesota 78-78 .500 3-7 15.5 Detroit 71-86 .452 4·6 23 Kansas City 54-~02 .346 6-4 39.5 
American League West 

tl~lllll f!'COrd pen~. last 10 GB los Angeles 90-66 .577 9-1 Oakland 65·71 .545 4-6 5 Texas 77-79 .494 6-4 13 Seattle 67-89 .429 3-7 23 
National League East f.lmm ror.ord porr . last 10 (;B Atlanta 89-68 .567 5-5 
Philadelphia 84-74 .532 6-4 5.5 New York 80-77 .510 8-2 9 Florida 80-78 .506 2-8 9.5 Washington 80-78 .506 3-7 9.5 
National League Central 

l.ll!Lill f(I('Ord pon: . last 10 GB St. louis 97-60 .618 4-6 Houston 85-71 .545 7-3 11.5 Milwaukee 78·78 .500 5-5 18.5 Chicago 77·80 .490 5·5 20 Cincinnati 72·84 .462 3-7 24.5 PiHsburgh 64·94 .405 4-6 33.5 
National League West team rneord perc . last 10 GB San Diego 77-79 .494 5·5 
San Francisco 74-82 .474 8-2 3 Arizona 72-84 .462 6-4 5 los Angeles 70·86 .449 3-7 7 Colorado 65·91 .417 5·5 12 
Men's Soccer Top 25 
learn record Prev. 

1 Indiana 4-0-2 1 2 New Mexico 6-0·0 3 UNC 5-0·1 2 4 Virginia 4·0·1 4 4 Cal 5-0·1 6 6 Maryland 5-1··0 8 7 Akron 6·0·0 9 B Sl. John's 4·1-1 10 9 Creighton 4·0·1 15 10 Fairleigh Dickinson 5-0·1 7 11 Duke 4·1-0 21 12 Connecticut 4-2-0 5 13 Santa Clara 4-2·0 13 14 Missouri State 4-0-2 11 15 Wake Forest 4-2-0 14 16 Ohio State 5-1-1 17 Clemson 3-1-1 12 18 Seton Hall 4-1-1 18 18 NOTRE DAME 4-2-0 16 18 Old Dominion 3-1-1 22 21 Binghamton 5-1-1 20 22 UC Santa Barbara 3·1-1 23 New Hampshire 5·0·1 24 Washington 4·1·0 25 UNC-WIImlngton 5-1·0 25 UCLA 3-2·0 17 
around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBAL Cincinnati at Miami (Ohio) 6 p.m., ESPN 2 
MLB Pittsburgh at Chicago Cubs 7:05p.m., WGN 
MLB 


Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -Baseball players arc willing to again toughen the sport's drug policy, ofi'ering to accept a 20-garnc penalty instoad of 10 days for first-time steroid offenders along with tests for amphetamine use. 
The proposal, outlined Monday in a letter from union head Donald Fehr to commissioner Bud Selig, fell short of what manage­ment wants. 
In an April 25 Iotter to the union, Selig called for a 50-game suspension for an initial positive test, a 100­game ban for second-time offenders and a lifetime ban for a third violation. 

Fehr's response said Selig's proposal was meant to quiet critieisms of base­ball's current policy, not deter steroid usn. 
"We share your concern about the criticism our pro­gram has received, and, in response, the players have demonstrated, several times now, their willingness to take all reasonable measures in response," Fehr wrote. 
Nine players reecived 10­day suspensions this year under the MLB program, with Baltimore's Rafael Palmeiro the most promi­nent. 
"Doubling it is good," Orioles player rnprnsenta­tive Jay Gibbons said before Monday night's game against the New York Yankees. "I think 10 is a lit­tle light. 
"Ten you can get away with as a team. You can do without a guy for 1 0 days, but 20, you're kind of hurt­ing your ballclub, too." 
Fehr's lettnr came ahead of Wednesday's congres­sional hearings on steroids in sports, the latost in a series of sessions on Capitol Hill. Selig and Fohr arn expected to join tlw com­missioners and union heads of the NFL, NBA and NHL in testifying about lng­islation to standardize test­ing and punishnwnt. 
One of the proposed bills is sponsored· by Sen. Jim Bunning, a Kentucky He p ubi ican and fo rrne r pitcher who's a member of basoball's I tall of Fame. 
"It's an embarrassnwnl. Donald Fehr has embar­rassed the pnopln he repre­sents. lin says to t.lw American pnopln in that letter, 'We don't ~~arn what. you think; 20 games is all we think is nncnssary, "' Bunning said Tunsday. "lin basically says, 'In your face. 1\venty games, take it or leave it.' That's com­~letely ur~~u~ceptable to the Congrnss. 
IN BRIEF 

Braves clinch their 14th 
straight division title 

ATLANTA -Tho Atlanta Braves clinched their 14th straight division title Tuesday night, but held off telling the fans at Turner Field. 
The Braves had just finished off a four-run fifth inning, giving them a 7-1 lead over the Colorado Rockies, when Philadelphia's Bobby Abreu struck out to complete a 3-2 loss to the New York Mets. 
The loss by the second-place Phillies wrapped up the NL East championship for the Braves, who began their record-setting streak in 1991 -when they were in the NL West. 
A smattering of fans apparently learned of Philadelphia's loss via cell phone, dapping as soon as Abreu struck out. "Let's go Mets!" one man yelled. A tomahawk-chopping woman held up a handmade "2005" sign above the left-lield seats, right next to the pennants detailing each of the Braves' playoff seasons. Colts defense provides a 
new strength for Manning 
INDIANAPOLIS -Dan Marino lacked the running game to win a Super Bowl. Dan Fouts never had the defense. Two-time MVP Peyton Manning suddenly has both. 
After seven years of breaking pass­ing records only to be rewarded with frustrating playoff exits, Manning and the Colts have forgotten the finesse. 
Rather than throwing deep, scoring quickly and relying primarily on Manning's strong arm to win shootouts, Indianapolis is carving out a new identity. The Colts are grind­ing out victories with a smashmouth style that would make Bill Parcells proud, and a stingy defense that rivals Tony Dungy's former master­piece in Tampa Bay. 
Tho combination has not only pro­duced three straight wins and given Indianapolis the early edge in the 

AFC South, but it also is changing tlw perce,ption of a team onee considernd soft. 
"I think we have our own uniqun way of doing things here," said defensive tackle Corey Simon, who played on the Philadnlphia Eagles' NFC champions in 2004. "Theso guys are hungry, they an~ young and tlmy want to get better. They want to makn a namn for themsnlves." Penningto~ gets ready for season-ending surgery 
HEMPSTEAD, N.Y. -Chad Pennington's season is donn and his future with the New York .Jets in doubt as he heads for a seeond rotator culT surgery. 
Coach IIerman Edwards eon­firmed Tuesday that the starting quarterback is out for the rest of 2005 with a torn rotator eufL Pennington, who had the same injury repaired in February, was reinjurcd last Sunday in a 2(J-20 overtime loss against Jacksonville. 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 28, 2005 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles hoping to start another winning streak with victory 
their home field and spark to improve their ball control and to take it to Adrian's weak not going to take a team too
Saint Mary's to begin 

another winning streak as they quality of possessions. defense. Adrian has allowed 30 lightly." homestand against enter a three-game stretch Belles senior defender goals on the season, 16 of which The mental aspect of the game against bottom-dwellers Adrian, Shannon Culbertson believes the have come in the last four has been an integral part ofweak Adrian tonight last place Tri-State team needs to games. Mackenzie's coaching philosophy University and practice ball-con­"Our passing is really some-thus far this year. She has
"Our passing is 

third-to-last place trol strategies. . thing," Culbertson said of her focused on generating a highBy KYLE CASSILY Kalamazoo really something. "We need to team's strengths. "We have com­level of energy on the field with Spans Writer College. The work on distribut­posure on the field. We are her team and to never let down, 
We have 

Belles' previous ing [the ball] out to relaxed and play smart." no matter if they are down by a 
composure on the

Adrian College may dwell in streak ended at the flanks, playing That composure will play a large margin on the road or the cellar of the MIAA, but the three victories in a field. We are at an angle, not large part in helping the Belles dominating at home. Belles refuse to blow off the row with last relaxed and play playing straight up avoid playing down to their "We know that [CalvinJ was a Bulldogs as a guaranteed win. Saturday's 3-0 and down the opponent's level. Subpar play really talented team," Culbertson 
smart."

The Saint Mary's soccer team defeat at the hands field," she said. against subpar teams has been said. "We got really pumped for (3-2 MIAA, 4-4 overall) demol­of MIAA leader, Offense has not the bane of many a contender, a Saturday, and I think we can ished the Bulldogs in two games Calvin College. Shannon Culbertson been a problem of problem the Belles are actively really continue that for Ithe last year with a 8-0 victory at The defeat has late for a group of seeking to avoid. game against Adrian!. We are
Belles defender 

home and a 3-0 win at Adrian. not slowed down a attackers and mid-"[Belles coach Caryn starting to get in the groove a bit. Adrian currently resides in sec­Belles team that fielders that posted Mackenzie] is telling us you have Even though we lost on Saturday, ond-to-last in the MIAA stand­has worked in practice early this seven goals in three games, but it to have respect for everyone that we were not defeated." ings with a 1-4 league record, 2-week on touch drills. Saint failed to find the back of the net comes on your field, because 6 overall. Mary's scrimmaged intensively against a tough Calvin defense. A anyone can come do the unex­Contact Kyle Cassity at 
The Belles are eager to take to and worked on keepaway drills rejuvenated Belles attack will try pected," Culbertson said. "We're kcassily@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEBALL 

Saint Mary's holds off late Tri-State run for win 
24 in the third game. A fired-up games apiece. slowly. the MIAA. In the process, Saint
By RYAN KIEFER 

Tri-State squad roared back, The Belles refocused in game "[We were] asleep the first Mary's leap-frogged Tri-State 
Sporrs Writer 

however, winning six of the five, taking an 8-4 lead they five or seven points," and tied Olivet and Albion for fin a! eight points to tq,ke the would never relinquish. Kristen Schroeder-Biek said. fifth place. 
After winning games one and game. Playko sealed the victory with a The Belles rallied during the "It was an incredibly impor­two, the Saint Mary's volleyball "We relaxed and we were out kill on the game's final point. first game, though, putting tant win for us," Schroeder-Biek team was shaken by the of position," Schroeder-Biek Schroeder-Biek was pleased together a run based on strong said. "Had the game gone the Thunder Tuesday in games said. "They gave 100 percent in with the win but was puzzled by floor defense. This triggered other way, it would have sent us three and four. that third game and we didn't. her team's inability to end the solid offense and allowed the in a direction we don't want to 
The Tri-State University They deserved to win that one." contest in the third game. Belles to control play for the go." Thunder, that is. Saint Mary's jumped ahead in "In winning game five, they remainder of game one and into The Belles will look to sharp­
Luckily for the Belles, they the fourth game, too, winning showed they want to win," she game two. Consistent play put en their game and increase rebounded to defeat Tri-State in 10 of the first 12 points, includ­said. "We need to have the drive them in position to end the their focus this week before game five to take the match ing an ace from Shelly Bender. and confidence to win in three. match in game three. hosting Bethel College in a non­three games to two, 30-25, 31-The Thunder was able to slowly Our confidence is just not there The win was crucial for the conference contest Saturday. 29, 28-30, 26-30, 15-11. chip away, however, trimming yet. I know my team can win in Belles in terms of conference 
It was the fifth time this sea­the lead to 17-16. A quick 6-1 three," she said. standings. The Belles improved Contact Ryan Kiefer at son that Saint Mary's has gone spurt from Saint Mary's seeme!i Saint Mary's started the game their record to 8-9 and 2-4 in rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 
the distance in a match. The Belles have won four of those matchups. 
Despite the win, Belles coach Julie Schroeder-Biek thought her team lacked a killer instinct Tuesday. 
"The team knows they could have won in three [games]," she said. "We need to play the game from start to finish and not relax." 
The Belles were in position to close out the match, leading 26­to seal the win at 23-17. Tri­State rallied again, though, exposing holes in the Belles defense. The Thunder closed the fourth game with a 13-3 run and tied the match at two 
VERA BRADLEY'S 
New Fall Designs are attiJp ~~It 

Wednesday, September 28th 
THEOLOGY ON TAP 
presents 

Prof. Larry Cunningham, Dept. of Theology 

Thursday, September 29th, 2005 330 Coleman-Morse 7:00-7:45 pm 
Sponsnrcd hy: Cantpus !\1inistry International Student Services and Acth·itics 1\tuslim Student Assnciation GraduHtc Studcnl llnion 
CJ-'1 

Wednesday, September 28, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
ganw together." Ono area in which tho Irish

Bradley 
hopo to get bettor is goal scor­
ing. 

Much of' Notre Dame's scor­play with a road loss to con­ing this yoar has como from fnr«HH~n pownr St. John's. Tlw tho midliold. t.nam respondnd by dPI'nating Midl"ioldors Nate Norman, Syracusn and thnn tHiging Ian Ethorington, Alox l.ouisvilln 2-1 Friday. On Yoshinaga, John Stephens and Sunday, though, Notro Dame Grog Dalby are five of the could not eapitalizo on its sec­team's top six scorers. ond-half scoring opportunities · The team is currently aver­and fell 2-1 to No. 15 aging 1.33 goals per game ­Cincinnati. a decent pace, but onn with 
With the loss to th (l which the Irish are certainly Bnarcats, the not satisfied. Irish foil out of With the great tiHl Soccer "I'd like to be 8 -o ... parity that Anwrica top exists in the 
continued from page 24 
Obviously, we're not 

25 for the lirst highly competi­
where we want to be,

timo all year. tive world of But Clark is but I think we are men's soccer, not very eon­high-scoring
making progress, and 

corned with games prove
we've got to keep

where his hard to come by. team is ratod working at it." "There's not midseason. many easy "It's whero games out
Bobby Clark 

you are at the there," Clark
Irish coach 

nnd of the said. "As long as ynar," Clark you are getting said. "The final ranking is the one more than the opposition, one that you are most excited you are happy." about." Despite not being part of the 
Nonetheless, the coach Big East schedule, acknowledges that his team Wednesday's game is very must play better as the season important to Notre Dame. moves forward. Bradley is a solid opponent, 
Clark says that tho team has and the Irish know that a vic­played extremely well in spots tory will look good when the this season, but he would like post-season arrives. to son morn consistency on a "Every game matters 
rngular game to game basis. because we are trying to get 
''I'd likn to bn 8-0, but we're to tho tournament," Clark not," Clark said. "Obviously, said. "These games here are w11'rn not whern wn want to very important for the bn, but I think we arn making Midwost regional status." progrnss, and we've got to knnp working at it. We've got Contact Kevin Brennan at to start putting a complete kbrenna4@nd.edu 
STUDY ABROAD 
IN 

JAPAN 
5 PM Thursday, September29 231 Hayes-Healy 
or 

5 PM Monday, October3 229 Hayes-Healy 



Post-Graduate Service Fair 

C E N T E R F 0 R 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
International Programs ALIVE FrancisCorps Good Shepherd Volunteers Heart's Home USA Holy Cross Associates Humility ofMary Service 
Japan Exchange and Teaching Pro­gram Jesuit Volunteer Corps Marianist Volunteer Program Maryknoll Lay Missioners Maryknoll -China Teaching Program Mercy Volunteer Corps Midwest Cap Corps Passionist Volunteers International Peace Corps Providence Volunteer Ministry Salesian Lay Missioners St. Mark's Catholic Church/ 
Casa de Ia Cruz 
Secular Programs Boy Hope/ Girls Hope Congressional Hunger Center Hampton Roads Youth Center 

Wednesday, September 29 5 -8 p.m.@ Stepan Cen128 
The Center for Social Concerns thanks the following programs for their continued recruitment, training and support ofstudents who commit to a year or more offull-time service after graduation. We invite all students to 
attend the fair and meet with representatives from these programs. 
Peace Corps Teach for America 
Teaching Programs 
Alliance for Catholic Education 
Cristo Rey Jesuit Alumni Volunteers Inner-City Teaching Corps Lalanne 
LANCE 
Lasallian Vqlunteers 
LMU PLACE Corps 
Loyola University -Choice 
LEAPS 
MAGIS 
New Orleans Volunteer Community 
Operation Teach 
Pacific Alliance for Catholic Teaching 
Red Cloud 
Volunteers 
St. Ignatius Loyola Academy 
Teach for America 
The Haitian Project 
The Neighborhood Academy Faith-Based Programs in the U.S. Alaska Radio Mission -KNOM ALIVE Amate House Andre House of Arizona Augustinian Volunteer Program Bon Secours Volunteer Ministry Program Cabrini Mission Corps Capuchin Youth & Family Ministry Catholic Charities -Minneapolis Catholic Charities/ Project Serve Change a Heart: Millvale Franciscans Christian Appalachian Project Christian Brothers Volunteer Program Covenant House Faith Community Desales Service Works Dominican Volunteers USA ECHO Faith Formation Leadership Program Felician VIM Franciscan Outreach Association Franciscan Volunteer Ministry Franciscan Volunteer Program Franciscans for the Poor FrancisCorps Gateway Vincentians Glenmary Volunteer Program Good Shepherd Volunteers Heart's Home USA Holy Cross Associates Humility of Mary Service Jesuit Volunteer Corps Marianist Volunteer Program Mercy Home for Boys and Girls Mercy Volunteer Corps Midwest Cap Corps Notre Dame Campus Ministry Internships Notre Dame Mission Volunteers Providence Volunteer Ministry Redeemer Ministry Corps Saint Joseph Workers Salesian Lay Missioners Vincentian Service Corps Central 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 28, 2005 
MEN'S GOLF 
Join Father Monk Malloy C.S.C. for a signing of his new book, Monk's Notre Dame.
Isban leads the Irish to a sixth-place finish 
overall win, with No. 12
By BOBBY GRIFFIN 
Tennessee finishing one shot 

Associate Sports Editor 
out. 
UAB, 867, and East 

Junior Cole lsban did every-Tennessee State, 869, also thing he could, but in the end, finished ahead of Notre Dame. his first-place finish in regu-Senior Mark Baldwin fin­lation was only good enough ished 14th overall in the field, to give the Irish a sixth place totaling a three-day 218 (73­finish in the Shoal Creek 72-73), and senior Eric Intercollegiate Tuesday. Deutsch finished four strokes 
lsban fired back-to-back 69s back with a 222 (74-73-75). in his first two rounds and Deutsch's 222 was good for then followed it up with a 72 32nd overall. on the final day, putting him Senior Scott Gustafson in a three-way tie for first closed out his tournament place with East Tennessee with a No. 38 finish, totaling a State's Rhys Davis and 223 (75-74-74). Tennessee's Jonathon Mount. Sophomore Greg Rodgers, 
In the playoff, lsban lost on playing in his first tourna­the first hole, and the other ment of the season, struggled two leaders ended up sharing . on the second day, but mao­the win after being even after aged to shoot a 229 (76-79­the four-hole finale. 74). 
lsban's three-day 210 ties After the first round him for the second lowest Monday, Notre Dame was in score in Notre Dame's history. sixth place with a three-over Only Jeff Connell, who shot a -291. 209 in the 1998 Marshall Early rain made it impossi­lnvitationa:l, bested that num-ble for the schools to finish ber: the second round Monday 
lsban's 69-69 to start the when darkness set in, and tournament was also the sec-they were forced to finish ond lowest score in school Tuesday morning. history. Isban's 210 is a large 
A 66-71 by Steve Retay in improvement over his rounds 1997 was the only lower last weekend in the Gopher Notre Dame score. Classic. A first-round 80 left 
Despite the sixth-place fin-him with a 224 three-day ish, the Irish l'inished ahead total. 

This wonderful collection of humorous, poignant and revealing stories and anecdotes offers special insight into the university that Fr. Malloy has served so faithfully as long time University President and as resident of Sarin College. Monk's Notre Dame has a story to tell about nearly every aspect of life at Notre Dame. Fr. Malloy intersperses fresh insight on traditional campus events, such as new students moving into the residence halls and the annual bookstore basketball tournament, with lesser known stories such as the myste­rious reappearance of a statue of Father Edward Sarin at the helm of a motorboat on St. Mary's Lake. Anyone who has studied, taught, worked or been interested in the University of Notre Dame will find Monk's Notre Dame delightful. 
Wednesday, September 28, 2005 from 4-6pm at the Eck Visitor's Center. Monk's Notre Dame is available for $15. 
of two ranked opponents -"It was the very first round Florida and Alabama, teams of the year for us, so maybe that Notre Dame trailed after that had something to do with the first day. that," lsban said. 
The Irish ended Tuesday's Isban knew coming into the final round with an eight-over weekend that his rounds 872 (291-288-293). which tied would be lower, and was con­the fifth lowest score in the fident that a combination of school's history. first-outing jitters and unfa-
Even more impressive is vorable circumstances such that it came at a course that as a delayed flight and the has hosted a PGA champi-absence of a putting green, onship event -something were to blame for his strug­that Isban spoke about before gles in Minnesota. the tournament. Next weekend, the Irish will 
"It's supposed to a phenom-travel to Durham, North enal place, and its supposed Carolina to compete in the to be pretty tough," lsban Coca-Cola Duke Golf Classic said. "You just want to play on Sunday and Monday. great courses, and this is del'i­nitely one of them." Contact Bobby Griffin at 
Florida, ranked No. 3, fin-rgriffi3@nd.edu 

ished with an 874, and No. 17 r-----------­Aiabama struggled towards VERA an 891. 
BRADLEY

No. 14 Georgia State fin­ished just two strokes ahead of the Irish with an 870. 
LSU's 863 was good for the 

Notre Dame's Department of Film, Television, and 1heatre presents 
Wednesday, September 28, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Purdue 
continued from page 24 
"Tho fact that you don't have a gamo tho next week, what do you havo to savn it for'? You do everything that you can to beat Purdun. And it's going to take nvc~rything we havn for that to happen." 
Weis has n~asons to be con­cerned, two of tlwm found in quarterback Brandon Kirsch and wide rncnivor t>orien Bryant. Kirsch is in his first scHtson as a startnr al'ler last year's starter Kylo Orton grad­uated and now starts for the NFI.'s Chicago Boars. Kirsch and Bryant, along with run­ning hack .Jprod Void, lead a halanc('(l Purdue offense that has not seorml fnwnr than 35 points in its first thrnn games. 
"Punlun this ynar in this ofTnnse has hncomn a vnry bal­anc~nd ofTcHJsn, whnrn in tho past thny wnrn morn of a pass­ing ofTnnso." Wnis said. "Now statistically, tlwy havo becomo mon~ of a run and pass, which prnsnnts a wholn buneh more probloms." 
Tho Boilnrmakors are 2-1, · 
with wins coming against Akron (49-24) and Arizona (31-24). Their only loss came last week in two overtimes to Big Ton foe Minnesota. 
With Purdue hungry for a win at Hoss-Ade Stadium, the Irish. :~-0 on tho road this sea­son, are focused on getting to the bye week with another road win. 
"I think that what happens then, then you get a chance to regroup, and the first thing you do. rather than worrying about your next opponent, is you identify problem arnas that need to be fixed," Weis said. "!You alsol try to got somn guys with bumps and bruisns healnd up for tho nnxt pnriod that you have coming up." 
After Saturday's gamn, the Irish will only havn onn morn road gamn, a Nov. 26 game against Stanford, the regular season linale. 
But for now, Notre Dame is fo('.usnd on getting to the bye wnek with a 4-1 record. Only al'lnr that will Wnis start to worry about how the rest of the sdwdule shapes up. 
"That's why t"m looking at tho strange part of my sched­ule really coming from after the Purdue game until the Tennessee game, because you've got bye, game, game, bye, game," Weis said. "That's a little unorthodox. So if you don't lay it out exactly how you want it to go, all of a sudden it's November and you've screwed up the month of October. I don't want to screw up the month of Oetobnr." 

Irish running back Darius Walker wants Notre Dame to have bragging rights in the state of Indiana for the first timn since 2002. 
"Whoever wins that game is basically tho ruler of tho state and can talk all the trash in that state for that particular year," Walker said. 
Last year bragging rights went to Purdue, as the Boilermakers dominated the Irish 41-16 at Notre Dame Stadium. 
"Purdue's always bonn a great rivalry," Walker said. "They've always benn one of the powerhouses, so it's always been a great game between us and them." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Piramides, Palacios y Playas 

Study in Notre Dame's International Study Programs in 
PUEBLA, MEXICO MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION SESSION 
VVednesday,Sept. 28,2005 5:00PM 
202 DeBartolo 

Physics taught in Puebla in the fall semester for Pre­Professional ~tudents; pre-medical internships available Engineering courses available in Monterrey 
.APPLICATION DEADLINE: 
Nov. 15, 2005 for Fall '06, Sp'06 and AY 2006-2007 additional deadline: May 1, 2006 for Spring 2007 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: www.nd.edu/""intlstudL 

fOOTBALL NOTEBOOK 
Status of McKnight, Morton still unclear 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Writer 

Offensive lineman Bob 
Morton, who eamo out of' 
Saturday's game early in the 
fourth quarter with an injury, 
may play this wnnkend. Irish 
coaeh Charlie Weis said 
Tuesday. 

"Bobby isn't necessarily out 
this week," Weis said. "It came out bettor than we thought it was going to be. Now I don't know whether he's question­able or doubtful, but he's not out. ... I thought when it hap­pennd, whatever it was, not knowing medically whatewr it was that he would definitnly ·be out. but I'm very encour­aged meeting with the trainer and the doetors, and they said that he has a chance of play­
ing this week." 

Wide receiver Hlwma 
McKnight missed his second 
straight game after undnrgo­
ing a minor procedure on his 
knee following ·tho Sept. 10 
game against Michigan. 

Wois said he is making 
improvements, but it he is still 
unsure when McKnight will 
play. 

"Hhema's getting closer," 
Weis said. "I don't know if he'll 
be able to go this wenk but it's 
going to be pretty soon. lie's a 
lot eloser." 

Impressions of their leader 
Senior tight end Anthony 
Fasano got a few pokes in at 
quarterbaek Brady Quinn after 
Tuesday's practice. Fasano 
talked about when he first met 
the junior on a recruiting visit 
in which Quinn stayed with 
Fasano. 

"He just seemed like a stiff 
California kid from thn 
Midwest," Fasano said. "Ito talks like a surfnr and hn wears all the surfer elothos, but he's from Ohio so I was kind of eonfused. lie was just like the llollister dude, like ripped shorts, shaggy hair. lin was just a dudn." 
But Fasano aeknowlndgnd that the ol'f'ensivo 1:aptain has exl:nllnd since taking on tho leadership role. 
"Ito's shapod up a littln bit," Fasano said. "lin's eut his hair a little shorter and he still talks kind of' funny for a kid from Ohio, but he's dnfinitnly donn a gnmt job of lnading." 
Changes in the depth chart 
Arter a returning his f'irsl can~er kickoff for :~ 1 yards against Washington, fresh man David Crimes has movc~d ahead of .Justin lloskins on kid returns on the dnpth chart. 
"WHII, hn had onn kickoff' return last W!~Ok and it went for about 34 yards, so I don't think I'm going to bo in a big hurry to be taking him out," Weis said. 
Also, two freshmen linebaek­ers have moved up to second string, according to this week's depth chart. Middle lineba1:kN Seott Smith has moved ahead of Mitchell Thomas as tho backup to Corny Mays, and Steve Quinn has moved alwad of' Anthony Vernaglia at the Apache linebacker spot, behind Mauriee Crum. Jr. 
Terrail Lambert is now the only player listed behind Mike Hiehardson at right corner­back. Previously, LaBrose lledgomon was listed behind Hiehardson as well. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Thank you dfr 
Elizabeth Clifton And Arnold Air Society/ Silver Wings 
For the Parents Night Out! 
Your favorite kidr.; on campus and their parents at University Village 
Wednesday, September 28th 7:00pm -vs. Bradley Autograph books sponsored by Marathon to first 250 fans First 100 fans receive a GOLD GAMES T-Shirt 

Saturday, October 1st 7:00pm -vs. West Virginia Free Soccer scarves to first 300 fans sponosored by Chevrolet 
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, September 28, 2005 
Fallon 
continued from page 24 
we want to go beyond that." 
All four ranked players -Bass, No. 77 Sheeva Parbhu, No. 89 Eric Langenkamp and No. 108 Brett Hegleson -posted singles wins on the opening day, as did Irackli Akhvlediani, Ryan Keckely, Yuchi Uda, Patrick Buchanan and Andrew Roth. 
Bass' win was a straight-sets defeat of Matko Maravic, who was the highest-ranked player in the tournament at No. 42. 
Doubles were far from a let­down for the Irish, who went 3-1 in defeating two Michigan teams and one from Drake. 
Keckley and Langenkamp, the strongest doubles team for the Irish, defeated Maravic and Brian Hung of Michigan -the No. 22 team in the nation -in a 9-7 upset. Bass and Helgeson teamed up for an 8-3 win against Michigan, and Buchanan and Roth defeated a Drake team with an 8-5 victory. 
"I think our singles play is pret­ty exceptional, I think all of us performed pretty well there," Bass said after the tournament concluded. "In doubles, we actu­ally did pretty well too ... We need a little work in a few areas of singles and doubles, but I think we made a pretty bold state­ment." 
The second day saw another doubles upset for Keckley and Langenkamp, who posted a deci­sive 8-4 victory over the No. 15 team from Ball State. The pair also defeated a Purdue team ear­lier in the day to improve to 5-1 in their career together. 
"I am excited about their level," Bayliss said. "They've clearly become one of the top teams in the entire Midwest, and I hope it goes beyond that." 
According to Bayliss, Keckley and Langenkamp have been a successful pairing because their games complement each other. 

"Ryan provides the raw ability to take the ball early and crash the net and Eric, while he can do that, also has the variety of being able to use spins and use more angles of the court, so they're a multi-dimensional doubles team," Bayliss said. "Their per­sonalities seem to blend pretty well, and I have pretty high hopes for them." 
Notre Dame took four other doubles matches, with Helgeson and Roth winning one and Helgeson teaming with Parbhu for another win. Bass and Buchanan won, as did the pairing of Buchanan and Roth. 
The doubles teams made a good showing over the weekend in an area where Notre Dame has struggled recently. 
"There's a lot of possibilities there, all of them excite me, and the challenge is going to be ... to really bring out the best in what they're capable of doing," Bayliss said.. 
In singles, day two and three both featured dominant showings from the Irish. On Saturday, Bass, Helgeson, Akhvlediani, Uda, Santiago Montoya, Buchanan and Parbhu all posted wins. Langenkamp was battling an injury and was finally retired in a tiebreaker. 
On the final day, the Irish went 6-1 with wins by Bass, Parbhu, Helgeson, Buchanan, Roth and Montoya. 
"In the singles, I'm really' excit­ed that we're capable of some pretty good things," Bayliss said. "Stephen's shown that he's ready for the big stage now.... He worked very, very hard over the summer and deserves a lot of credit for staying with it. He always could compete, but now he has new weapons." 
Fall tennis will continue through the beginning of November, and includes a match against perennial powerhouse 
usc. 

"We can't get too overconfident with what we did ... we didn't beat anybody in the top 10," Bayliss said. "We really need to start raising our sights a little bit and seeing if we can compete at each level." 
But Bayliss believes this team can do just that. 
"I think these guys are a little more committed to each other than I've seen in a few years," he said. "They've set up some of their own team rules that I don't have anything to do with." 
Bayliss attributes some of that to the fact that these players have been together for three or four years already, and have often been forced into stepping into big roles at a young age. lie said that this year's team is focused on achieving national prominence. 
"We're pretty well-focused on these kind of goals," he said. "I think you're going to see a much better team this year." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

Maryland 
continued from page 24 
ed. In consolation play on the second day, Nelson triumphed in a hard-fought three-set match over Tifl'any Tucker of LSU, 3-6, 6-4, 6-1. She was set to take on Duke singles specialist Parker Goyer for the 'B' flight consola­tion championship on Sunday, but it was cancelled. 
"I was really pleased with Kelly," Irish assistant coach Michelle· Dasso said of Nelson's first win since Nov. 9, 2003. "It's her first time she's really played a match because of injuries in two years. She had a couple of great efforts and just fought really hard." 
Connelly and Stastny showed that inexperience together need not slow them down, as they took home the consolation championship for '/\ flight. 
The pair suffered a setback in the opening round after drop­ping a single-set 8-5 to Yale's duo of Aimee and Janet Kim, but rebounded against a nationally­ranked pairing. LSU's Lauren Seaman and Tiffany Tucker were ranked 60th nationally before the Stastny-Connelly com­bination defeated them 8-4 in the consolation bracket semifi­nal. 

The two Irish women fmished what they started the next day, as they walked over Duke's Lauren Archer and Goyer in an 8-2 championship win. 
"[Lauren Connelly and Kristina Stastny], we were very pleased with them," Dasso said. "They are really the leaders of our team this year and have worked hard so far this fall." 
Stastny's success was not limit­ed to doubles play, however; the Irish ace took home the singles 'A' flight consolation champi­onship as well. She took two matches on Saturday, winning 
What is a strong password? 

A Strong Password is a difficult-to-guess password that you use with your NetiD to access insideND, Notre Dame email and shared storage spaces, such as NetFile. It is at least eight characters long, and is made up of upper and lowercase random letters, numbers, punctuation marks and other keyboard symbols. 
What is a weak password? 

A weak password is one that is short and easy to guess. 
What's an example of a weak password? 
Your first name followed by your dorm room number is an example of a weak password. 
What's an example of a Strong Password? 
myPWis1Uwg 

How can I remember a password that complex? 
It's a "passphrase" derived from "my password is one you won't guess." Remember the phrase; remember the password. 
How do I change to a Strong Password? 
Go to https://password.nd.edu, and follow the instructions. 
all four games played by a 6-1 count, against LSU's Seaman in the semis and then Duke's Jessi Robinson for the title. Her only loss came in the opening round to Yale's Kim by a 7-6 (7-5), 6-2 score. 
"Overall, this was a great weekend for our three seniors," Dasso said. "All three of them had a couple of good wins and really started off the season on the right note." 
Connelly was victorious in sin­gles play as well, knocking off Yale's Rashmee Patil in a strong comeback 4-6, 6-3, 6-4 during the opening round. 
Connelly then fell in the quar­terfinals to Maryland's Ramona But 7-6 (7-3), 6-1 and then in consolation play 6-3, 6-1 to LSU's Mykala Hedberg. The Irish woman finished out her week­end with a consolation victory over Yale's Kim 2-6, 6-2, 6-2. 
Dasso and Irish head coach Jay Louderback were both happy with how their seniors performed this weekend and see it as a good omen for the rest of the season. 
"It was great for them to start the season out on a high note," Dasso said. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 

Why should I change to a Strong Password? 
(1) 
Weak passwords put sensitive and personal information at risk that can be used by identity thieves (you don't want strangers guessing your password and pretending to be you) ; 

(2) 
If you do not change to a Strong Password, your existing password will expire, disrupting your access to Notre Dame networked applications, including email and shared storage. 


Will all existing passwords expire at the same time? 
No. Passwords that have not been changed (to Strong Passwords) since July 5, 2005 will be randomly tagged for expiration sometime between now and the spring of 2006. 
How will I know that my password is set to expire? 
You will receive an email from the OIT, and you will have 30 days from the day of receipt to change to a Strong Password. Once you change your password to a Strong Password, you won't have to change it again for another 180 days. 
When it comes to Strong Passwords, will the University make exceptions for some campus computer users? 
No exceptions will be granted. 
~UNIVERSITY OF 
WNOTREDAME 
Office of Information Technologies http://oit.nd.edu 
Wednesday, September 28, 2005 the Observer+ TODAY page 23 
ERIK POWERS & ALEC WHITE
JOCKULAR 

CROISSANTWORLD 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 

WILL SHORTZ 


36 Base of a fajita 45 Whistler, of a 56 1950's TV sort comedy/drama
37 Reading tests starring Peggy
47 See 3-Down 

38 401(k) Wood alternative: 48 Library area 
Abbr. 
57 Home of the
49 "Who cares?" 

Diamondbacks: 39 Opposite of o'er 51 Charged Abbr. 
40 Polite 53 Hurt 
61 Dr. 
agreement 

55 A scout may do Frankenstein's 44 King's domain? a good one workplace 
For answers, call 1-900--5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS Letter abbr. 5 Floor 10 Part of golf instruction 14 Baseball general manager Epstein 15 Send, as 
payment 16 Fanny 11 Something to 
pitch 18 Sister of Thalia 19 Like a shoppe 20 Beard of barley 21 Patient person's 
tactic 23 Least square 25 Sean of "Lord of 
the Rings" 26 Bamboozled 27 High-fives 31 Relative of -ian 32 Shirt size: Abbr. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
T U B A B E D S p A T S V 
U A A L 0 M A N A D I E U 
G 1 S T T A A A S L E E K ~0 T I T~~A
N G S A 

......_, L~A R 1 T I!!R..-!IIIP!P~L-+=-E~N y S I S E E R I E. P A C T. E T "ij';t N E A N D1E R T H A 1L M A N N 
E S T E .N 0 T E .A I R E D 
A D~A L T E R S 
R E~V A­

L D W I D E W E B B G -;:E+.N:':t-:-1+.:-E 0 D 0 R rv~ T L 
-A N T 0 N R E P S E R T E S T 0 N E K A T E N E E D 
63 Novelist Zola 
64 Singer Paul 
65 Site of some lashes 66 In a fog 
67 Tops 
DOWN 
1 Paper-clip, perhaps 2 "My Generation" group 
3 With 47-Down. title for this puzzle 
4 "As if!" 5 Calculus calculations 
6 Has coming 7 Amo, amas, __ 
aAlternative to penne 
9 School near Windsor 10 Rum drinks 
11 Family tree entry 
12 "My secret's out 
13 Prettied oneself 
21 Golfing iron 
22 Mylanta target 24Youmighttake a bow for this 28 Goldfinger's torture device 29 Self-proclaimed "Greatest" 
30 Connive 33 Dastardly doings 
35 "Likewise, for me" 
JUMBLE 

JJ~ill&JE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
DRYIT 

± 
I 
ctl2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
fi~f1 
CLIFEK ~ 
WHO WAS CA.L-L-£:0 
WHE:N THE: NE:IGH­
1 

rx [] 
www.Jumble.com 
BOR'S PARTY GOT TOO NOISY?

I RAJAUG ± 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as

rJ r J 
suggested by the above car-
Ans: 

THE"[ I I I I I J'l I I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' I Jum.bles: CUBIT ABASH WOBBLE PILLAR s Answer: When his son askea for money, Dad was left in a-"LATHER" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEHRITIES HOI~N ON TillS DAY: Avril Lavigne, 21; Stephan Jenkins. 41; ShaUJl Cassidy, 47; A Martinez, 57 
Happy Hirthday: You can now clearly sec what you have to do to advance. It is important to l!1llow your own dreams this year, not someone else's. Be strong, slraightl()rward and slcadi(L~I. never looking hack or wo1Tying about what everyone else will think. Your numbers arc 4, 8, 12, 23, 34, 39 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Set your goals high and don't stop until you have 
done everything in your power to linish what you promised you would today. 
You can ligun: out ways to earn extra money. • •• •• 
TAlJIHJS (April 20-Muy 20): You will have dil'liculty getting things ollthc 
ground as your emotions lead you down the wrong path. A problem with a 
personal relationship will be deceiving. Don't gel angry; instead, work hard. •• 
GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): II" you stick to your game plan, you should he able ­
to pull oiTanything you start. You will have no problem when it comes to your 
personal relationships. Pick and choose who you want to spend time with. •••• 
CANCER (June 21-.July 22): Keep your wits about you ii"you don't want to 
suflcr. This is not the time to lend or borrow. You will have to protect yoursclr 
lrom slander, ill treatment and someone you trust leading you astray. •• 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Ask l(lr a lhvor and watch things happen.. Your generosity 
and contributions will seal any deal you arc working on. St:u1 that new project 
you've been contemplating. ••• · 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): Concentrate on a personal relationship. You may 
have to do a little rasttalking to smooth things over. A chance to make a career 
move is evident. You will he surprised how many options you have. ••• 
LIHRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You will he lucky today. Money mailers can he 
cleared up and debts will he paid ii"you ask l!1r what's owed to you. Any pending 
legal matter can he settled ir you are precise about what you want. .... 
SCOIU'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You may think you can trust your husincss 
associates, but when it comes to contracts, gel advice lrom an outsider. Personal 
papers must be completed. There is a lot going on behind your back. •• 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): You are lucky in love, business and linancc 
today, so take this opportunity to clear up any unlinished matters. Don't try to 
change or lix what's already working. ****• 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-,Jan. 19): Don't be fooled--a good deal is one that 
saves you money, not one that costs you. A colleague may try to take advantage 
of you. Don't make mistakes based on false information. ••• 
AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Fcb. 1!1): Nothing will compare with the way you do 
things today. A short trip will help you make a decision. Self-improvement 
projects will make a huge diflcrcnce in the reaction you get from others. ••• 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Expect problems with transportation as well as 
dealing with neighbors and friends. Iking too vocal will work against you. Listen 
to what others have to say and keep your opinions to yourself. ••• 
Hirthday IJaby: You have the intelligence and uppcallo convince everyone to see things your way. You arc an ideas person who can lind solutions and make things happen. You arc articulate, inquisitive and knowledgeable. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfim, C!U~eniulust.comfhr cm!fidential consultution.\' 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 

34 Monopolist's portion 35 Diehard 36 Show piece? 40 It's used to walk the dog 41 Red state? 42 Scone's go-with 43 Afore 
44 Louisiana Territory explorer 
46 Conglomerate 
50 Back on the 
high seas 52 Erode 54 Throw together, 
as clothes for an outfit 58 Partner of pitch and roll 59 King or Shepard 60 Mother 61 Ness, e.g. 
62 Michigan college or its town 

---------------------------~---------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State _____ Zip._______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Wednesday, September 28, 2005 
page 24 
ND TENNIS 
Court warriors 
Strong performance at tournament sparks high hopes for talented team 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
Dual match play is months away for the Irish, but a strong showing at the Tom Fallon Invitational last weekend has the team poised to be a contender this year. 
After going 38-10 overall as a team and posting a 29-6 fmish in singles matches, junior Stephen Bass emphasized the importance of fall play for the team. 
Above, Sheeva 

"It lets you concentrate on individual play," said Bass, who Parbhu approachesis the highest-ranked Irish player at No. 74. "Fall tennis, it's just for the net against you, but it makes a statement for the team as a whole." Northern Illinois 
The Irish leapt out to a con­vincing start on the first day of Feb. 18. At right,the Tom Fallon Invitational, a home tournament at Notre Lauren ConnellyDame, whose players competed against players from Ball State, returns· the ball Michigan, Purdue, Drake and 
Wisconsin. against Iowa Feb. 27. 
"Now, I think we realize we're one of the very good teams in the middle of the country," Irish 
• 

coach Bobby ~ayliss said. "Now PHOTOS BY 
see FALLON/page 22 PAMELA LOCK 


Stastny, Connelly set tone for squad at Maryland Invitational 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
The curtain rose last weekend on a new season for the Irish women's tennis team, one full of new partners and rejuvenated faces. 
The Irish women sent three seniors -Kristina Stastny, Lauren Connelly and Kelly Nelson -to the Maryland Invitational in College Park, Md. for a three-day tournament against the likes of Duke, Louisiana State University, West Virginia, Yale and Maryland. 
The Irish women premiered a brand new coupling in doubles play, putting Connelly and Stastny together to face nation­ally-ranked competition. The season opening tournament also featured the return to action of Kelly Nelson, who had missed the previous season due to injuries. 
Nelson participated in two matches in 'B' flight play. She opened play with a 6-3, 6-2 loss to West Virginia's Monica Lyskawa, but quickly rebound-
see MARYLAND/page 22 


FOOTBALL 
Purdue looms before bye 
By HEATHER 

VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 

One more game until the Irish get a break, and a tough game it will be. 
No. 13 Notre Dame (3-1) faces No. 22 Purdue (2-1) this weekend in the fourth game on the road of five games the Irish have played this season. After Saturday, Notre Dame will have a bye week before facing Southern California at home on Oct. 15. 
Irish head coach Charlie Weis said at his Tuesday press conference that it's nice to have only one team to prepare for this week. 
"It gives you an opportunity to put all your energy into just beating Purdue," Weis said. 
see PURDUE/page 21 

MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish set to lock horns with Bradley tonight 
Team hopes to bounce backfrom tough loss to Cincinnati Sunday 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 

After falling to 2-2 in Big East play with Sunday's 2-1 loss to Cincinnati, the Notre Dame's men's soccer team (5-3) is hoping to return to its winning ways today against out-of-conference foe Bradley. 
Bradley enters the contest with an impressive 6-2 record, having won three straight games. 
In 2004, the Braves lost to Creighton in the Missouri Valley Conference 
Championship. 
Bradley has not played extremely stiff competition so far this year, but Irish head coach Bobby Clark expects to face a solid oppo­nent. 
"The fact that they've won six of their last eight games says it all for me," Clark said. "They're going to be a very good team." 
The Irish and the Braves are somewhat familiar with each other. The two teams did not play in 2004, but met in each of the three previous seasons, with Notre Dame winning two of the three contests. 
Notre Dame has dropped two of its last four games. The Irish opened Big East 
see BRADLEY/page 19 


ME~~s GOlf 
SMC Vln.lEVIAU 

SMC SOCCE~ 
~D VOUEYIAU 

nnERHAU 
l~lERHAll 
..... 
(.) Junior Cole Isban 

The Belles look to 
Notre Dame 3 

Walsh 20 
Cavanaugh 13
Saint Mag's 3
z leads the Irish to asixth-

bounce back from a 3-0
Tri-State 
Loyola 0 

Lyons 0 
Badin 0 
place finish at the Shoal 

loss last Saturday to
The Belles won the 
The visiting Irish had 

Quarterback Mary 
The Chaos shut out
::5 
Creek Intercolligiate. 

Calvin when they play 
little trouble with
= first two games before 

Sullivan tossed a pair of 
the Bullfrogs to push

last-place Adrian
struggling to put away 
Loyola, sweeping the 

touchdowns in Walsh's 
their undefeated
ca:: 
College today. 
host Ramblers 30-15, 30­
the Thunder, but pre­

shutout of Lyons. 
record to 3-0.

=: 15,30-24.vailed in game five. 
page 20 
page 16

page 18 
page 16 
page 16
page 18 





