' ; I .. , I' ! j i .. ; ' ..·... · ; 1I!
Pop.· -E JO·H·"N P~u·'"lL· [1
. ' . . .• ~-., ' ' . .. :·~ . . '!:: . .. .. ::~ .. . . .. ~-. i . . . . 
' . : : : . ' ~-: ·.: " ; . . . :
: ; . . :! .·· ).. . ' : -~ .. 1~ ::: ,'• :; :· :' .;; ·.... ··' ,. .. .: _: : !:: . 
. . . . . ' . . ..J...J . . . . .· . . . . ..J .t.-11 ~ 


page 2 The Observer + POPE JOHN PAUL II 1920-2005 Monday, April 4, 2005 
..He traveled millions ofmiles ..He was really important, not ..[He] was a r,and to every corner ofthe earth 
..It•s a huge loss for only to Catholics but to the shaper ofwor 
to bring his personal message of
the Church. ·· whole world. I feel like I lost a one ofthe m
faith, hope and love to all ofthe part ofmy family." figures in rece 
Emily Ledet world, notjust Catholics. " Walsh sophomore Cassie Belek Father Ed 
Father Theodore Hesburgh Badin freshman Universit 
University President Emeritus 
John Paul II had global, human impact 
Pontiff reached out to millions, modernized papacy and defended human rights 
than ever before. by 20th century theologian Karl of the iron curtain, Matovina said. Church teaching, Pope John Paul 
By EILEEN DUFFY In the face of such challenges, Hahner to characterize Pope John "Not many people have the II was quite different from his 
In Focus Writer Appleby said, "his presence, his Paul II's papacy. moral gravity to be part of that predecessors. Pope Paul VI, 
visibility, his charisma . . . assured "Hahner said that following counter-force," Matovina said. Appleby said, was "unpopular" 
In contrast to his immediate that the Church and particularly Vatican II, we're moving from While the pope was not effective and "retreated" from the public predecessor Pope John Paul I, the pope would be at the center of being a Western European church in ending communism in Cuba near the end of his life. In con­who served for only 33 days attention." to a truly world church," today, his visit nonetheless meant trast, Pope John Paul II "provided before dying, Pope John Paul II "He brilliantly brought the Matovina said. " ... [B]ecome a a great deal to Catholics in Cuba, answers at a time when there served for 27 years, the third­Church to the media and global world church, that's happened in whose worship had been so were a lot of questions," longest papacy in history. age," Appleby said. Pope John Paul Il's papacy." restricted by the 40 previous Cummings said. 
He entered the papacy during a Pope John Paul II made 104 Matovina offered the diversity of years of communism, Matovina For example, Cummings said time of world tumult. While the trips outside Italy and more than bishops as evidence of the global­said. Cummings called John Paul many thought the Church's stance Church was bouncing in the wake 150 within Italy during his papa­ization of the church. While II's ecumenical work with Jews on birth control and female ordi­of Vatican II, an iron curtain was cy. He visited every continent, European bishops used to travel one of the highlights of his papa­nation W(!.S going to change with cloaking parts of the world. Later, except Antarctica. to places like Africa, South cy. Vatican II -it did not. The time lightning-fast progress would According to the Chicago America and Asia, more and "His moral voice was heard following that was a period of strike, sparking a storm of Tribune, the pontiffs penchant for more bishops native to these con­throughout the globe," Matovina "tumult and change," she said. changes. world travel stemmed from his tinents are emerging. said. "But [Pope John Paul II] was not 
The pope was never afraid. He first trip abroad as pope, when he The pope did not hesitate to Humanity apologetic," she said. "He defined seized the new opportunity that visited Mexico in 1979. One of his enter countries that, due to com­The pope should be remem­these things as central to Catholic air travel presented, eventually first stops there was the Basilica munism, outlawed the very reli­bered for his humanity, Matovina teaching." becoming the most-traveled pope of Our Lady of Guadalupe, where gion he represented. He visited said. Law professor Vmcent Rougeau in history. He visited places where he spent more than an hour pray­Poland twice when it was under Appleby agreed, noting that also highlighted.the pope's rigid he was unwelcome or his mes­ing alone. martial law, once in 1979 and "[t]he Church often emphasizes adherence to Catholic teaching. sage was rejected. And he always "It was while praying to then again in 1983. He also made the divinity of Christ," but that "He was a very traditional pope kissed the ground of those places Guadalupe, the pope later said, a trip to West Germany in 1987, Pope John Paul II said what we for pe9ple who thought that there when he deplaned, a tribute to that he had an epiphany," the two years before the end of com­learn from Christ is to be human. might be more conversation the humanity of Jesus Christ. Tribune article said, "suddenly munism, and to Cuba in 1998. ."His gestures -hugging chil­about the role of women ... he 
John Paul II always defended understanding that it was his mis­During these visits, as always, dren, kissing the ground after get­shut that conversation down," he human rights, especially in the sion to become the pilgrim pope, the pope stressed religious free­ting off a plane -are all signs of said. face of communism. He also bringing the word of God to peo­dom, Appleby said. his presence in humanity," he While he defended male-only defended the Church's post­ple around the world." "He was a great champion of said. ordination and urged women to Vatican II stances, despite their Indeed, the pope did not limit freedom -the freedom to fulfill "On the one hand he empha­seek out roles as mothers and unpopularity in radical or liberal his travel to any one area of the your destiny as a human being, to sized aspects of the Church that wives, Cummings said, John Paul parts of the world. world, although he personally vis­fulfill your destiny in God, to be are hierarchical, patriarchal," II also decided to classify sexism 
The changing world was not a ited almost all of Rome's 334 fully in touch with the spirit of Cummings said. "But he also as a sin. problem for Pope John Paul II. parishes. love and forgiveness," Appleby made the papacy seem more Integrity in death Even Vatican City now has its own Born and raised in Poland, he said. human with his willingness to "People may disagree with him, Web site. "really embraced that relation He was always concerned with embrace and be embraced." but there's no doubt he was a Global reach with Poland and Eastern Europe," human rights, which he called And just as his arms were open faithful and holy man," Cummings 
Pope John Paul II became the said Kathleen Cummings, associ­"non-negotiable, inviolable, not for an embrace, his mouth was said of the reaction to John Paul leader of an ancient establish­ate director of the Cushwa Center something that's transitory," open about the pain he endured II's death. ment on the "threshold of the and professor of history. Appleby said. near the end of his life. "We're seeing various world globalized media world," said his­John Paul II was also "tremen­Some of these governments "On his trip to Lourdes [in leaders complement the pope [fol­tory professor and director of the dously beloved in Latin America," were profoundly changed follow­August of 2004], he talked about lowing his death]," Matovina said, Kroc Institute for International said Timothy Matovina, director ing these visits. One month after suffering," Cummings said. "He "and that's unprecedented. Not Peace Studies R. Scott Appleby. of the Cushwa Center, for his the pope's second visit to Poland, shared his suffering with the everyone agrees with him, but 
With air travel reaching new "commitment to justice, consider­the current leader there, Gen. world." people admire his integrity." possibilities and the arrival of the ing these countries struggle with Wojciech Jaruzelski, ended mar­Leading the post-Vatican II Internet, the papal office had poverty." tial law. The pope was also "one Church Contact Eileen Duffy at more globalization opportunities Matovina referred to an article of the primary causes" of the fall When it came to defending eduffyl@nd.edu 
May 18, 1920 Pope John P.-uJ II was btlm Kaml Joseph W<tjtyla mW:ad0116ce;. 

The Life of Po 
Poland. to Ina father, Kar&t a fouttcky worket, ud mot.Ltr. Emilia.. a ~~teacher._ Hi• .mothe:r 
October 16, 1978 

·~a p.ro~.f oftheology at
died when he wa• 9 yeats' Gld. 
At 58, Wojtyla is 

University i:n Lubin~ Poland. 
the 264th pope, the Poland qc{ the rust 



THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 116 MONDAY, APRIL 4, 2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Notre Dame remembers Pope John Paul II 
Comrnunity mourns, celebrates life of Church leader 
By MADOlE HANNA A~sociate News Editor 
Wlwn Pop1~ John Paul II passed away Saturday aftnrnoon, the Basiliea lwlls tolled for an hour, alorting tho rampus of his doath and imnwdiatoly drawing mourn­ers to tho ( ;rouo. 
Sincn t.hn rwws hit Notrn Dame this wonkPnd. studonL<;, adminis­trators. l'arully, stan· and mom­lwrs of tlw South Bond mmmuni­ty havn lanwntnd tho popn's death and C(dobratl1!1 his Jill~ in a variety 11fways. 
Approximatoly 400 people att.PrHIIHI a rosary sorvien Saturday night at tho (;rotto lnd by Vien l'rosidont for Studnnt Affairs J<atlwr Mark Poorman, Uniwrsity Prnsidnnt-dnct Father .John .lnnkins, Basilica Hnr.tor Fathnr I'PtPr Hocca. llimdor of Campus Ministry Fatlwr Hiehard Warrwr, studnnt body prnsidnnt llavn Baron and vice prnsident l.izzi ShappPJI. 
Thosn in attnndancn shinlded tlwir Crotto eandlns from the wind whiln singing "Avo Maria," swaying to tlw Alma Mator and praying in a way that Warnor said WIL<; onn of thn pope's fitvoritns. 
"Simple, yet profound, [the rosary! still rmnains on tho dawn of t.hn nnw millmmium," Warner told tlw erowd. "It is a praynr of gnmt signilkanrn." 
Wlwn tlw praynrs nndnd, those holding randlns floodml liJrward to placn tlwm in thn Grotto, many lingoring long al'tor to say silont praynrs. 
Following tlw sPrvkn, Warnnr said it was nwant to "grinvP his !tho popp'sl JliL<;sing but enlobratn 
see POPE/page 8 


Pontiff impacted Catholic universities, ND presidents 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
Although Pope .John Paul II novnr stepped foot on God Quad or worshipod in tlw Basilica of tho Saen~d lleart. a numbor of indireet yet sig­nificant tins exist bntwnnn thn Jato pontiff and Notrn Damn. 
Catholic universities 
Perhaps tho· popp,'s most lasting impact on Notrn DanH' is his inf'lunnen on Cat.holil~ oduration. In an April 2!'i, I9S9 ad dross nntitlnd "On tlw Catholic Univnrsitins," thP popn stn~ssnd tlw rwenssity of Catholi1: institutions in a world fillnd with I:!Jallnngns. 
"This Cat hoI i1: r h araet.n r dons not distort l.lw univnrsity or restrict its lngitimatP autonomy as a plaen of moral formation and of fn~n rnsPareh; it rneognizns and ovnn conlirms this autonomy. hnlping tho univnrsity to n~al­izn its true nat.urn and to overeomn the dangnrs of dis­tortion," .John Paul II said. 
During this time pnriod, Malloy joirwd two ot.lwr U.S. ndueators on a I !'i-mnmbnr eommission to hnlp rnvisn thn pope's Apostolic Conslitution, a dran doeumnnt rnlnased by the World Congress on Catholic higher nducation in November 1989. 
In thn Snpl. 2(,, I91)0 isstw of Thn Obsnrver, Malloy said tho draft "rneognizes tho sig­nil'ieant roln playnd by lay pnopln land[ is strong in ... affirmation of aendPmie frnn­dom." 
see IMPACT/pagl' 6 

University explores selling WNDU 
By KATE ANTONACCI Aw>eiare Nt•ws Editor 
Tho University has hin~d Kalil and Co., a broknrage firm basnd in Tuseon, Ariz., to look at tho possibln saln of Miehiana T1dneasting Corp. (MTC), tho operator of WNDU-TV. according to a statmnnnt rnlnasnd Friday by I·:xneutivn Vicn President .John i\fll1H~k -(;raves. 
"In recent months we have recoived a number of inquiries from parties inter­ested in acquiring Michiana Tnlncasting Corporation," Afllnc:k-Gravns said. 

"Tho Univnrsity feels it has a rnsponsibility to evaluate such inquirins in a fiseally prudent manner." 
Dun to the University's "Jim­itnd knowlndgn of the broad­casting industry," Afflnck­(;ravns said tho outsidn bro­kerage lirm was hired to help with the evaluation. 

Though the firm has been hired, Afrleek-Graves said that no deeision has been made at this limn. 
"The rinaneial offieers of tho University are always making evaluations of how tho money ean best be put to use," University spokesman Matt Storin said. 
Though the subject of sell­ing the station has eome up before, it has never been examined to this degree, Storin told South Bend Tribune. 
Storin would not speculate as to why Notre Dame is look­ing into selling Miehiana Telecasting Corp., whose sta­tion WNDU is located on Notre Dame's eampus. 
Sourees close to WNDU said the content of some NBC pro­grams over the last five to 10 years may be considered a 
cause for possible sale. 
In Sept. 2003, WNDU-TV decided not to air the comedy television show "Coupling" because of its racy subjnet matter. The board of direc­tors of MTC unanimously voted after receiving advance copies of "Coupling" episodes. Four officers from the University were involved in the voting. 
Though viewers voiced con­eern, the University was eau­tious about the sensitive nature of the show and the effect its airing may havn had on WNDU's business relation­ship to NBC. 
WNDU's President and General Manager Jim Behling had no comment about the possible sale. 
The University has owned the station since 19!'i!'i. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
First Pro-Life Youth Rally hosted at ND 
By KATIE LAIRD News Writer 
The Notre Dame Hight to Life (RTL) Club hosted its first annual Pro-Life Youth Hally on Saturday, where more than 100 high school students and youth group members gath­ered together and learn and to listen about abortion aware­ness and virtuous living. 
From 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., the students, volunteers, coordi­nators and Notre Damn under­graduatns assemblnd in Lafortune l3allroom for the rally, celebrating with famous speakers, musie, food and a prayer service. 
Arina Grossu is the Youth Education Outreach commis­sioner for ND Hight to Life who helped organizn thn evnnt. Two groups ol' HTI. formed an outrnach program last year to reach out to high school students to advoeatn chastity and to ernatn abortion awarnnnss. 
"Wn wanted to eonneet with the high sehools in local arnas with our students hern as well as othnr organizations," Grossu said. "It is an opportu­nity to como tog1~ther." 
Aimee Shnlidn was thn emeee of the nvent and works to help organize Notre Damn volunteers with HTL. She was pl1~ased with the rally's out­eomn. 
"Thorn's a lot of positive energy," Shelido said. The rally ineluded two 
see RALLY/page 8 


.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Monday, April 4, 2005 
CLAIRE KELLEY !The Observer Michael Kimmelman, chief art critic for The New York Times, shows slides dur­ing a lecture Sunday at the Snite Museum entitled "The Accidental Masterpiece: On the Art of Life and Vice Versa." 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Realn1en eat food 

The other night I enjoyed a lovely dinner at Chili's with some friends. Oddly enough, the table was split by gender. 
One half of the group indulged in two appetizers, 
Eileen Duffy 

entrees and dessert. One per­son ordered a 
Assistant 

chocolate milk­
News Editor 

shake to go. 
The other half only had water to drink; their hands did not stray near the godforsaken chips and salsa. Even salads were a no-no for this group, since they came with croutons (carbohydrates) on top. 
Guess which sex sat on which side? 
Wrong. 

Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you an epidemic sweeping across the campus: men eating like women. Newsflash, guys, this is more unat­tractive than those extra pounds would be. 
One of the boys I was with at Chili's that night opened his menu to the "Light Fare" and scoffed at the choic­es. 
"600 calories?!" he wailed in a sus­piciously feminine voice. "How many calories are in the rest of this shit?" 
Or take this, for example. My room­mate recently dined at Hooter's with two gentlemen, one of whom bravely ordered fried pickles as an appetizer. 
After three (I repeat, three) of the quarter-sized delicacies, the other boy leaned back and whined, "I think I'm full!" 
Please. You might as well take out a compact and start powdering your nose at the table. 
Another friend of mine was recently invited to a luncheon with a male com­panion. Everything was· going peachy until they ordered. 
After requesting a B.L.T. on low-fat wheat toast, the boy smiled at my friend as the waitress moved to a dif­ferent table. Suddenly a look of panic crossed the boy's face. 
"Waitress!" he screamed, almost falling out of his chair. "Can you make sure there's no mayo on that?" Then, turning back to the girl, he giggled, blushed and explained that just the sight of mayonnaise "makes him squeamish." 
Talk about a turn-off. 

If you really do care, boys, my advice would be never to talk about it. Girls just don't want to hear about how the carbs in those 15 beers you drank last night went straight to your butt, or about how the fare at South Dining Hall is so greasy and preservative­loaded. Be a man, for crying out loud. 
Last Sunday I was pleasantly sur­prised to see a young man carrying a plate piled high with eggs, sausage, hash browns and toast. That, I thought, is my kind of man. 
Then he proceeded to cover the entire plate with cheese, sticking it in the microwave as he headed back for a donut. 
I practically proposed on the spot. As Kate Gales wrote earlier this year, real men drink beer. Yes, they do --but they also eat a pizza afterwards. And they aren't ashamed to get pep­peroni on top. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy 1 @nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards ofjournal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4 54 I so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU DO WHEN YOU HEARD ABOUT THE DEATH OF THE POPE? 



Chris Garibaldi  J9hnny Mospan  Tony Jannazo  
freshman Fisher  junior Fisher  senior Off-campus  
"! went to the Grotto."  "I turned on the news and talked to my friends in Rome about it.,,  "I went to Mass. ,  

Atlanta 74 I 62 Boston 70 I 49 Chicago 64 I 48 Denver 65 I 42 Houston 83 I 67 Los Angeles 78 I 72 Minneapolis 80 I 62 New York 70 I 49 Philadelphia 75 I 48 Phoenix 56 I 40 Seattle 61 I 48 St. Louis 71 I 58 Tampa 88 I 68 Washington 75 149 




Joe Gulntu Katie Jannazo 
senior freshman Fisher Cavanaugh 
"I prayed the "I prayedfor rosary with a him. He was a 
rosary which he great man.,, blessed when I was in Rome. ,, 

OFFBEAT 
Thief robs apartment, does household chores 
RICHMOND, Va. -A woman's apartment was cleaned out, and cleaned up by a burglar, police said.. According to police, the woman returned home Thursday after being away for a week and discovered her television, computer and other items missing. The burglar had also helped himself to food and booze. 
But this was not a thoughtless thief. Police said the rear sliding glass door, which the woman had left open, was closed and locked when she returned. 
TODAY 
l::t:: 
LLI 
::J: 
~ 
LLI 
3: 
.... 
~ 
c( 
(,) 


0 

..... HIGH 63 HIGH 55 HIGH 71 HIGH 61 
LOW 45 LOW 40 LOW 51 LOW 44 
In addition, "clothes and dishes had been washed and dried," according to the police report. 
Police Capt. Karl Leonard said it's possible the burglar knew the woman was going to be gone for a while and may have decided to take up residence in the interim. 
TV channel accidentally airs naked dancers 
POUGHKEEPSIE, N.Y.­Viewers expecting to see the latest local meeting on their public access channel got an eyeful recently when Cablevision played a tape of nude dancers accidentally. 
The mistake affected cus-

TONIGHT TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 

tomers in parts of Dutchess, Ulster, Putnam and Orange counties. 
Hopewell Junction resi­dent George Morton returned home from Palm Sunday Mass and turned on his television to see a striptease contest. 
"I thought, this is terri­ble," Morton said. "I don't get HBO or anything like that." 
Cablevision said Thursday it was not a public access program and that a "pro­gram switching error" occurred. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
David Orr, chair of environ­mental studies at Oberlin College, will give a lecture today entitled "The Fifth Revolution: Connecting People and Places." It is sponsored by the School of Architecture and will being at 4:30 p.m. in 104 Bond Hall. 
Andrew Rippin of the University of Victoria will speak at 4:30 p.m. today in McKenna Hall in a lecture entitled "Syriac in the Quran: Muslim Theories." The talk is part of the "Towards a New Reading of the Qur'an" conference. 
The softball team will face off against Eastern Michigan in a doubleheader Tuesday at 3 p.m. and 7 at Ivy Field. 
Ray Ofden, of the depart­ment of mathematics at the University of Glasgow, will speak Tuesday on "Biomechanics of Soft Biological Tissue: Structure and Modeling." The lecture is sponsored by the depart­ment of aerospace and mechanical engineering and takes place in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
The South Bend Center for Medical Education is spon­soring a lecture by Gary Fromm, M.D., entitled "Sleep Disorders" Tuesday at 7 p.m. in 102 DeBartolo Hall. 
The baseball team faces Toledo Tuesday at 5p.m. in Eck Stadium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu. 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 


Monday, April 4, 2005 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 3 

World in mourning gets first glimpse of late pope 
Assoriatcd Press 
VATICAN CITY -John Paul's narthly remains lay dothnd in crimson vnstnwnts, his head on goldnn pillows and adorned with a white bishop's mitPr. I lis hands Iwid a rosary, a pastoral stall' was tucked undnr his IPI't fornann. Swiss (;uards stood watch on nithnr sidn. 
Karol .losPph Wojtyla was finally at pPace, tlw !inns of' pain nrased fr0111 his face after ynars of c:rip­pling disnasn. 
"It was vnry satis(ying l'or all of us to snn him so sernne," said Cardinal Hoger Mahony of Los Angnlt~s. orw of many church olli­dals, diplomats and politidans who paid tlwir rnspects at the papal bier. "I lis lifn is finishnd and hn gavn up his spirit." 
Tnlnvision imagns from thn Vatiran 's l'rnscond Apostolic l'alarn on Sunday gavn the public iL-; lirst vinw of' Popn John Paul II sincn lw dind tho night before. Starting Monday, thn pope's body was to lin in statn at St. Pntnr's Basilica l(lr public visitlltion. 
An nstimated 100,000 pnople lurrwd out at St. Pntnr's Square for a morning Mass and thou­sands morn -tourists, Homans, young and old -knpt coming throughout tho day, filling the broad houlnvard loading to St. Peter's Basilica. Tlwy clutdwd rosaries and rwwspapnr photos of' tlu• latn pontill', standing shoulder­to-shoulder and praying for tho soul of"our hnloved .John Paul." 
"l•:vnn if' wn l'nar wn've lost a point of rnl'nrenen, I fnel likn everybody in this square is united with him in a hug," said l.uca c;hizzardi, a :~H-ynar-old nurse with a sleeping bag and a hand­made pnacn llag at his l'not. 
l~arly Sunday. a tnxt message had rirculatnd on cell phones in Homo, asking pnopln to light can­dles in ttwir windows. "May they light up tho road to God for him, the way hn did I(Jr us," the mes­sagn said. 
Around the world, bells tolled and worshippnrs prayed in nnnmnbranen of the man who rnigrwd f(u· lonw~r than all but two of' his prodnenssors and W1L<; ered­il.od with !wiping bring down 1:ommunism in Europe and sproading a message of peace during his frequent travels 
Vatican begins preparations for funeral and conclave 

amund the world.  builder of bridges between the  tradition, Cardinal Camillo Huini,  
John Paul, who was 58 when  faiths, noting how he had  the late pope's vicar for Homo,  
the cardinals elected him the first  embraced Holocaust survivors  issued a formal announcement of  
non-Italian pope in 455 years,  with kindness and maintained  John Paul's death to tho people of  
also left a legaey of conservatism.  friendships with Jewish friends  Home early Sunday.  
Ile opposed divorce, birth control  from childhood.  Cardinal Angelo Sodano, tho  
and abortion, the ordination of  In Home, ollidals wore scram­ Vatican's No. 2 oflieial, gave the  
women and the lifting of the  bling l'or a huge influx of pilgrims  homily at Sunday's Mass at St.  
celibacy requirement for priest<>.  -up to 2 million of them-seek­ Peter's. "For a quarter century, he  
The mourning stretched from  ing to pay linal respects to the late  brought the Gospel of Christian  
tho pope's native Poland, where  pontill'.  hope to all the piazzas of the  
100,000 people lilled a Warsaw  The College of Cardinals ­the  world, teaching all of' us that our  
square at the spot where he cele­ rod-capped "princes of the  death is nothing but the passage  
brated a landmark Mass 26 years  church" who now ofTidally govern  toward the homeland in the sky,"  
ago, to tho earthquako-devastatnd  the 1 billion-strong Homan  he said.  
lndonosian island of' Nias, where  Catholic Church ­was to hold its  The written text of Sodano's  
a priest led special prayers. In  first meeting Monday, a pre-eon­ homily ealled the late pope "John  
Paris, tho great bell of Notre  dave gathering expected to plan  Paul the Great," a title usually  
Damn sounded 84 times -once  and set a date l'or the funeral later  designated for popes worthy of  
for each year of the pontill"s life.  this week at St. Peter's Square.  sainthood, such as Gregory the  
In New York, U.N. Secretary­ President Bush was expected to  Great and Leo the Great. Sodano  
Gmwral Koli Annan and former  attend the funeral, which will  did not use the title when he deliv­ 
Mayor Hudolph Giuliani joined  draw other world leaders as well  ered the homily, and there was no  
parishioners who packed St.  as Vatican hierarchy and ordinary  explanation. Vatiean texts. howev­ 
Patrick's Cathedral for a standing­ faithful. The conclave must begin  er, are considered oflieial texts  
room-only Mass.  15 to 20 days after the pope's  even if they are not pronounced.  
"lie showed us how to live and  death.  After the Mass ended,  
hn showed us how to die," said  John Paul died at 9:37 p.m.  Archbishop Leonardo Sandri, who  
one parishioner, Joan McDermott.  Saturday in his apartment of sep­ became the pope's public "voieo"  
"lie reached out to people of all  tic shock and cardio-circulatory  in the final weeks of his life, read  
f~tit.h~, m!.t just Catholics and  collapse, the Vatiean said.  · the traditional Sunday noontime  
Chr1st1ans.  The mourning began with an  prayer, which John Paul delivered  
In the Holy Land, Israelis  overnight vigil in St. Peter's  throughout his pontilkate.  
remembered John Paul as a  Square. In keeping with Vatican  The crowd applauded, and  

somn fought back tnars, wlwn Sandri announcod that the latP pope prepamd tho prayer himsdf bnlilrt~ hn dind -perhaps onn of' John Paul's last writtnn doni­mont-;. 
"It's a histt>rit: nvnnt," said Ermin F(~rri, a 72-ynar-old Homan who proudly shownd oil' a list of the six popes lw has lived through. "It's not sonwthing sad f(Jr mn. I think of' all that lw has donn." 
"I think morn about. how hard it. will be~ l(w a new onn to lilllow in his f(JOL-;tnps," hn addnd. 
"John Paul held his hand to us young people," said 21-ynar-old Alessio Bussolotti. who dmvn to Homn with his l(~llow Boy Scouts l'rom thn Italian dty of Ancona. "Now we have to give him ours." 
Onee the Mass nndnd, cardinals, prelates, Italian government olli­eials and diplomats gatlwred in the Sala Clenwntina of' thn Apostolic Palaeo, whnrn John Paul's body lay in state. 
llis ewssed hands dutdwd a rosary, and his pastoral stall' was tueknd undnr his lnft arm. 
At their meetings beginning Monday, the eardinals will rmtd John Paul's final instructions. including his ehoien of burial place. Most popes in rncnnt enn­tul'ins havn asked to bn buri11d in the crypts below St. Peter's Basilica, but sonw havn suggnstnd the first Polish-hom pope might have chosen to be laid to rest in his native country. 
In addition, the eardinals will arrange for the destruction of John Paul's Fisherman's Bing and thn dies used to makn lead seals fbr apostolic letters -f(n·mal ges­tures meant to symbolize thn end of' his mign and to pmv1mt l'orgnr­ins. 
On thn sidelirws, eardinals will certainly be sizing nach other up as possible "papabili," or having the qualitins to bn the nnxt popn. 
Cardinal Bnrnard Panalieu, onn of' five French prnlatns who ean vote, said Sunday hn was hoping for someone "who dynamizns thn people-God's people -<L<; John Paul II did. At the same time, a man who has an international sense, of' thn opnning of' Catholicism to the world. An opnn man and at tho same time, a man faithful to thn gnmt traditions of' the Church." 

Pope's final images: Releasing a dove, touching his throat 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY -llo rnleased a dove from his apartmnnt window, and chuckled in dnlight as it llnw back into his room. 
lin touchnd his throat, struggling to spnak l'rom his hospital room aftnr surgery to insert a breathing tubn in his windpipe. liP poundnd a lnctnrn in apparont fmstra­tion aftnr trying -and falling -to greet thn faithful. 
Tlwsn worn some of thfl last poignant public imagns of Popn John Paul II, who spont his linal days shielded fmm a world so accustomed to snoing him. 
Millions worn rnovnd Sunday as video of tho pope's body lying in state Ill the Vatican's Apostolic Palaeo was beamed around the globn. But l'or many Homan Catholics. the photographs and footage of .John Paul in tho last weeks of his life stir nvnn dnnpnr emotions. 
Giusnppn Gobbato, a 62-year-old gas station attendant who joined thousands on St. Peter's Square to pray for the pope, said ho snipped out a newspaper photo taknn on Wodnesday -the last time John Paul appeared alive in public -and 
planned to have it framed. "It's a memory that cannot be meas­ured," he said. 
Images of the pope during that appear­ance are among the most indelible now that he's gone. 
Newspapers and television stations cap­tured a gaunt John Paul in the window of his apartment overlooking St. Peter's. As TV cameras zoomed in, he made a dra­matic attempt to say a few words but managed only a rasp, his mouth open and his face contorted in pain. 
Hoalizing he simply couldn't speak, the pope swatted at the microphone in front of' him in a gestme to have it taken away. He was then wheeled away from the window and the white curtains were drawn dosed -the last time, until his body was dis­played on Sunday, that he was seen. 
There wore other affecting recent moments immortalized in lilm, replayed over and over since his death as reminders of the frailty and vulnerability -as well as the courage -of John Paul's linal weeks. 
There was the pope brushing a hand over his throat in late Febmary during a silent appearance at a window to Home's Gemelli Polyclinic hospital after doctors fitted him with a breathing tube. It was "almost as if he wanted to apologize," the Vatican newspaper L'Osservatore Homano commented at the time. 
There was the pope on Palm Sunday, back in his Vatican window, pressing a hand to his head and thumping a lectern with a list al'ter failing to manage even a simple greeting to 50,000 pilgrims gath­ered on the square. 
There was the pope a week later, on Easter Sunday, coughing and uttering just a few unintelligible sounds before resting his hands on the lectern in apparent del' eat. 
To be sure, other l'ar more cheerful images will endure: photos or the pope in his prime, on skis or in hiking boots and a parka, or jokingly cupping his fists over his eyes as though peering through binoculars -for years a hot-selling Rome postcard. 
Though Monday's edition of L'Osservatore Romano, out on newsstands Sunday, mn a black and white photo of the dead pope's face on its front page, three of Rome's main dailies recalled a happier 
time: They used photos of .John Paul kiss­
ing babies or tenderly making the sign of 
the cross with a thumb ovor their fore­
heads. 
Some of' the most touching imagns of tho pope were captured on Jan. 30, probably tho day ho came down with the flu -tlw beginning of his rapid downward spiral and a two-month struggle that nnally ondod Saturday 1wnning. 
The pontill' was addrossing thousands of young people fron'l an Italian Catholic organization who marked January as a month to promote peaen. lin was llanknd at his studio window by a pair of H-year­
.olds -a boy and girl -who urged the 
world to rOJnnmber ehildren who live in 
eountries wracked by war. 
Eaeh of the children at his side sent a 
dove flying, only to watch helplessly as the 
white birds darted back into the apart­
mont. 
John Paul's fac1~ ernasnd with laughter. 
lie grabbed one of the dovns, shooed it out the window and playfully patted the boy on the head. After a quick flight ovnr the square, tho bird winged its way baek and flew inside. 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April4, 2005 


Notre Dame hosts annual Spring Vis 
By KATIE PERRY News Writer 
This weekend more than 150 prospective African American, Asian American, Latino and Native American students flocked to Notre Dame to find out first hand what life is like under the illustrious -albeit scaffolded -golden dome. 
Spring Visitation Weekend kicked off Thursday with the arrival of a distinguished group of minority prospective students. The annual event was planned and coordinated through the Office of Undergraduate Admissions. 
"The weekend's purpose was to answer the questions and ease the concerns of some of the best and brightest students from under-represented populations throughout the United States," assistant recruitment coordina­tor Son Nguyen said. 
In this aim is the underlying goal of attracting talented stu­dents who may contribute diver­sity to the University, sophomore student coordinator Covington Doan said. Doan participated in the program as a high school senior. 
"Ultimately, Spring Visitation weekend is an admissions recruitment tool. The prospec­tive students come here to hear ftrst hand what students have to say and have their questions answered," Doan said. 
High school seniors represent­ing a wide array of ethnic back­grounds shadowed both minority and non-minority students cur­rently enrolled at Notre Dame. The prospects experienced near­ly every facet of campus life, from parietals and professors to dorms and dining halls. 
"The hosts do a major service to the University by personally welcoming the prospects into community life at Notre Dame," Nguyen said. "Our hosts took their prospects to class, dis­cussed student life issues, walked around campus and showed them a glimpse of the ND social scene." 
In addition to partaking in the daily campus bustle, visiting stu­dents attended such culture-ori­ented events as Latin Expressions on Friday and Saturday's BCAC Fashion Show. In past years admissions officials have taken heat from members of the Notre Dame community who label the planned activities as "deceptive diversity." 
But according to Nguyen, these events are not arranged solely for the purpose of Spring Visitation weekend. They are instead part of a larger diversity series that spans the entire scholastic year. 
"Latin Expressions and­Fashion Show fall along with other signature events like Asian Allure [in] early fall and Fiestang lin] late winter," Nguyen said. 
Doan said that planned events are functional in that they serve as necessary entertainment for the visiting students. 


"You can't expect to have the prospective students do home­work -or at least watch their host do it -and go to the Grotto and pray or participate in folk choir in order to [have] the ND experience," Doan said. 
Events like Spring Visitation weekend demonstrate the con­certed efforts of administrators to increase campus diversity; however the perception of Notre Dame in this area is far from pristine. 
Earlier this year the Princeton Review ranked the University among the nation's top 10 most homogenous student popula­tions. Additionally, the abrupt dismissal of head football coach Tyrone Willingham sparked accusations of racial discrimina­tion from the media as well as students, faculty and staff within the Notre Dame community. 
The apparent racial strains such incidents have placed upon the University led to "prep work" implemented by the event's coordinators in order to assess the issue, Doan said. 
"A forum was held to gather student input as to how they see the campus now," Doan said. "A number of Spring Visitation vet­erans offered their input as to what went well and what didn't onjheir [visit] and what they felt needed to be qone this year to help alleviate any tension that was present." 
Nguyen said that aside from calling two meetings with minor­ity students to gauge the current atmosphere on campus, not many things were done differ­ently regarding this year's Spring Visitation weekend. 
"Is this Spring Visitation Weekend more of a priority to the University than the past Spring Visitation Weekends? Most definitely not. Increasing campus diversity at Notre Dame has always been one of the top priorities of the Undergraduate Admissions Office and will remain so," Nguyen said. 
But Doan says that the ambi­ence on campus this year indeed affected the weekend. • 
"I cannot comment for every­one, but I feel as though [Willingham's] dismissal had an impact on Spring Visitation weekend, but it did not make [the weekend] any .more or less important than it always has been for the University," Doan said. "We ask students to be who they are and to be honest and genuine when speaking to prospective students -that has not changed throughout the years, but it may have been stressed more this year given the current state of the University." 
For Nguyen and other University administrators, amplifying the importance of culture and diversity on campus is a continuous mutual goal that will benefit both current stu­dents and incoming students from different backgrounds. 
"It is our hope that these stu­dents come to the realization that Notre Dame can enrich their lives just as much as they can contribute to Our Lady's University," Nguyen said ''These students bring with them amaz­ing life stories and will most cer­tainly be tremendous assets in our pursuit of excellence." 
Contact Katie Perry at kperry5@nd.edu 
Observer, staffers honored at ICPA 
Observer Staff Report 

The Observer was named the second-best Indiana daily .stu­dent newspaper at the annual Indiana Collegiate Press Association awards ceremony Saturday, with 75 percent of its entries in writing categories earning first, second or third place honors. 
The Observer staff earned first place in the Best Single Issue category for iis Dec. 1, 2004 issue, which added eight pages of special coverage of the firing of head football coach Tyrone Willingham. 
The staff also earned first place in the Best News or Feature Series category for February 2004's "Diversity at Notre Dame," a comprehensive three-day series coordinated by former editor in chief Andrew Soukup and former managing editor Meghanne Downes. 
The 2004-05 editorial board earned both second and third place in the Best Staff Editorial category for "Preserve Academic Freedom" and "Homosexual Community Deserves Equality," respective­ly. 
Numerous staff members captured a variety of individual honors as well. 
Soukup and former editor in chief Matt Lozar won first place in the Best Sports News Story category for a package of articles on Chris Thomas lead­ing the Irish in their upset over No. 5 Connecticut. 
Other first place honors went to Soukup in the Best Column category for "Never Forget," his farewell column in the 2004 senior issue, and to for­mer assistant managing editor Joe Hettler in the Best News Feature category for "Serving with Honor," an article on for­mer Irish basketball player and Iraq veteran Danielle Green. 
Second place honors went to Downes and· editor in chief Claire Heininger in the Best Breaking News Reporting cate­gory for "Monk Moves On," their coverage of University President Father Edward Malloy's April 2004 decision to step down from the presidency after June 2005. Soukup, .man­aging editor Pat Leonard and assistant managing editor Heather Van Hoegarden earned second place in the Best Stand-alone/Pullout Section category for "A Decade of Decline," the Irish Insider for the 2004 Blue-Gold game. 
Others earning second place were Heininger and Kevin Allen [Best Non-Deadline News Reporting for a package of sto­ries on gay and lesbian student groups at Notre Dame], Janice Flynn [Best Investigative Story for two articles on Opus Dei], Story/Heview for an article on The Passion of the Christ], Lozar [Best Sports Feature Story for an article on the 30th anniversary of Notre Dame ·ending the 88-game winning streak of the UCLA men's bas­ketball team] and photo editor Claire Kelley [Best Sports Photo for two photos of the Notre Dame-Michigan football game]. 
scene  editor  Rama  
Gottumukkala  [Best  
Entertainment  Feature  

Third place honors went to Heininger [Best Non-Deadline News Reporting for an article on Malloy's response to the unexplained barring of Muslim professor Tariq Ramadan from the U.S.; Best News Feature for an article on Notre Dame grad­uate and 9/11 panel member Tim Roemer], former scene editor Maria Smith [Best Entertainment Feature Story/Review for an article on King Lear],Van Hoegarden, Leonard and Justin Schuver (Best Sports News Story for a package of articles on the Willingham firing] and former graphics editor Mike Harkins [Best Informational Graphic for a graphic summarizing the 2003-04 Year in Sports]. 
Other Notre Dame media groups represented at the ICPA convention included the Juggler, named the second­best literary magazine; Scholastic, named the top news magazine; and the Dome, named the second-best year­book. 


FULL CALENDAR OF EVENTS AT: www.nd.edu/ -issa/Festival 
'·--··--······-----·-·---~----------~-~-~----·· --------------------~-----­
April 4-9, 2005 
A Week ofGlobal Warming brought to you by 
ISSA*Notre Dame Food Services*GSU*le Cercle Francais* Department of East Asian languages and literatures*Hammes Bookstore*Hesburgh library*OlA*Athletics Department*University Village*Pakistan Student Association*legends*Snite Museum Of Art*Chinese Friendship Association*Russian Club*IWC*Sahaja Yoga Club*Alumni Association* IAND*10,000 Villages*and the students and scholars of over 100 nations! 
Do you have a story idea? Would you like to write for news? Call Heather and The Observer News Department at 1-5323. 
-








ORLD & NATION 
Monday, April 4, 2005 CoMPILED FROM TIIE Or>sERVER'S WIRE SERVIcrs pageS 

INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Palestinians take on militants 
HAMALLAII. West Bank -After weeks ol' ht~sitation. Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas has finally made moves to challenge the pow­erful militant groups sowing chaos across the Wnst Bank. 
In tlw end. he was spurred into action by donwstic concerns, including an audacious rampage by gunmen through Hamallah and l/w V!'ry real fear of impending electoral dPI'eat. rather than by persistent U.S. and lsraP!i demands that lw crack down on armed groups. 
"Tiw Palestinian Authority has been cripplnd and it's bnconw very nvident to the people," Palestinian political analyst I I ani Masri says. "It readwd a point whnre people were won­dt•ring what value is there in having a leader." 
Ceremony honors tsunami dead 
BAN<; MUANG, Thailand -Pressing their hands in a gesture or respect. hundreds or tsunami survivors crowd1~d Sunday into a Buddhist tPmpln in soutlwrn Thailand that was a rnakt~shil't mortuary !'or those killed by t.hP deadly wavt~s on Dee. 2(J. 
Until just a f'pw wm~ks ago, tfw grounds ol' thP Bang Muang tt•mpiP wen• lillnd with thou­sands of bodit~s. as ollicials struggled to cop<~ with tlw erushing numbnr ol' eorpsPs !'rom thn tragmly. 
Tlw bodies are now gone, moved to a qrs­tom-buill facility elsewhere. But those who ~atlwn~d to pray for the souls of the victims are still haunted by the December disaster. 
"I am still alive but it's as if I am dead. I haw~ lost everything," said Savilri Chanakul, 3S, a vendor who lost both ol' her children and a grandson. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Amtrak train's engine derails 
WI liTE SAl.MON. Wash. -The engine ol' an Amtl'llk train derailed Sunday in a Washington state gorge, sending at least I 0 passengers to hospitals, ollicials said. 
Tlw Portland, Ore.-bound train was carrying 115 p(~ople when tho locomotive's wlwnls loft thP track. leaving four passenger cars leaning upright against an embankment in the Columbia Hivor Gorge in southern Washington, Amtrak spokeswoman Marde Golgoski said. 
Hospital officials said a pregnant woman was admitted to a hospital for observation. Orw man had a shoulder injury and was oxpoetnd to bn tmated and rnlr.asr.d. Eight oth­ers were being examined. 



King's assassination remembered 

ATLANTA -The voice of Martin Luther King .Jr. boomed again !'rom the pulpit of Eberwzer Baptist Church on Saturday as downs of people gathnred to commemorate tlw 37th anniversary of the civil rights leader's assassination. 
Exct~rpts of several King speeches were played over a loudspeaker at the church wlwre King preached from 1960 to 19(>8, induding his ''I've Bncn to the Mountain Top" speech. dnliverPd in Memphis, Tenn., just hours bdorn his death. 
i\mong the crowd was U.S. Hep. John Lewis, a linuwnant of King's during the civil rights movenwnt who becamn a follower as a tePnagPr aftPr hearing King on the radio dur­ing the Montgmm~ry Bus Boycott. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Mayor endorses stadium idea 

INDIANAPOLIS -Mayor Bart Peterson endorsed major parts of the governor's plan to finance a new Colts stadium and an Indiana Convention Center expansion Saturday but insisted the city should have ultimate control over the project. 
The question of' how the project would be ovnrseen is emerging as possibly the major sticking point between Hepublican Gov. Mitch Daniels and tho Democratic mayor as. the two race toward a deal in these final weeks of the 2005 legislative session. 
POLAND 


Citizens lament death of native son 
Hundreds of thousands gather in Warsaw square to remember Pope John Paul II 
Associated Press  
WAHSAW About  
100,000 Poles mourned  
John Paul II on Sunday at  
the Warsaw square where  
the Polish-born pope cele­ 
brated a landmark Mass  
that inspired opponents of'  
the communist regime 26  
years ago.  
In John Paul's hometown  
of Wadowicc in the south.  
a large bust of the pope  
was brought !'rom the town  
hall and placr,d in front or  
St. Mary's Basiliea, where  
he was baptized. It is to  
remain tlwr<~ until a statue  
of John Paul replacns it.  
Poles returned Sunday to  
the spot as many as 1 mil­ 
lion people turned out in  
1979 to !war newly Plected  
John Paul Il's call to  
"renew the face of the  
Earth" ­credited by many  
with inspiring the  
Solidarity trade union  
movement Jed by Lech  
Walesa that toppled  
Communism.  
"From the symbolic place  
where John Paul ll lit the  
flame of freedom, dignity  
and solidarity. Warsaw is  
praying !'or mercy for the  
lloly Father," Bishop Piotr  
Jarecki told the crowd  
gathered for the special  
service.  
People pray at St. Anna's church for Pope John Paul ll's health In WarsawPeople were "praying  
that, in each of' us, in our Friday. The Pope's death was seen as a great loss for Poland.  
town in Poland, in Europn  
and the modern world, we  screen.  ernment worker, recalled  . church during his last visit  
can see the fruits of the life  Bed-and-white Polish  the pontiff's words: "The  to his homeland on Aug.  
and mission of John Paul II  llags with mourning bands  pope said. 'Don't be  17,2002. .  
to the end," .Jarecki said  of black cloth attached  afraid,' and I'm not. lie  During World War II, tlw  
from a platform in  llew around the city.  brought Poles closer to  young Karol Wojtyla used  
Pilsudski Squarp. formerly  "It's a great loss for  God. fulfilled his mission  to pray at a chapel in an  
Victory Square.  Poland," said Jozef  and now he has left."  adjacent convent on his  
Police officials put the  Homanzuk, 40, a business­ In Krakow. where John  way to foreed labor undnr  
crowd at around 100,000.  man standing in front of  Paul served as archbishop,  Nazis at the nearby Solvay  
The number was difficult  SL Anne's. "The pope was  hundreds laid flowers.  salt quarry.  
to estimate because the  a symbol of the new  placed candles and stood  "I was born in 19S2 and  
throng spilled over into  Poland. Now, we are begin­ in silent contemplation  to mo. the popn is a Pole."  
surrounding streets.  ning a new history, in  under the window, where  said Ann Pszczol, a 23­ 
Churches elsewhere  which we Poles are left  John Paul used to appear  year-old student of Slavic  
overflowed with crowds.  alone."  to talk to people during his  languagPs at Krakow's  
with several thousand peo­ Jaroslaw Sikorski. 24,  visits to Poland as pope.  Jagiellonian University who  
ple jammed into a Mass at  said, "We have been left  Outside Krakow, thou­ came to the service.  
the St. Anne's Cathedral in  orphans. That means we  sands stood in a meadow  "I cannot imagine now  
Warsaw's Old Town.  must be strong. And the  an open-air Mass at  how l will aecnpt a new  
Thousands mom stood out­ word of John Paul II gives  Lagiewniki, where the  pop<~. I have a sense or  
side and watched the serv­ us this strength."  pope consecrated a large,  great loss and emptiness  
ice on a largP tolevision  Barbara Zielinska, a gov- modern concrctn-and-glass  now."  

St. Peter's Square fills with Inourners 
the marble steps of St. Peter's attended Mass. with about 20.000
Associated Press 
Basilica. more spilling into the surrounding 
VATICAN CITY -!foisting children Some clutched photos of the pope boulevards. Around the Vatican, bikP onto their shoulders and holding as a younger. more energetic man. riders in spandex and sleek lwlmets cherished photos, tens of thousands before illness left him grimacing and stopped to peer past the colonnades stood silently shoulder-to-shoulder stooped. In them, he beamed, blessed at the crowd. First aid staff readied Sunday at a Mass for the late Pope babies or led processions with a gold­stretchers, and snifl'er dogs checked John Paul II in St. Peter's Square. en staff. Each time the giant screens trash cans. Guid(~S holding up Gradually, though, tears gave way to lining the colonnades showed a close­umbrellas led tourists to tho square's fond memories. up of John Paul's picture, the crowd edge. 
Some people had camped out in applauded. Emergency health services said late sleeping bags overnight on the cob­"Even if we fear we've lost a point Sunday that they were called to assist blestones. Underfoot were melted of reference, I feel like everybody in the faithful in St. Peter's Square 115 candles and flower petals left during this square is united with him in a times during the day. the vigil. hug," said Luca Ghizzardi, 38, a Most of the injuries were cuL'i and 
As an organ sounded the first notes nurse with a sleeping bag and a broken bones from peoplP who had of Mass, many people held up cam­handmade peace nag at his feet. fallen or fainted. Three of the eases eras to photograph the ceremony on Police said about 80,000 people were life threatening, officials said. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 4, 2005 

l01pact 
continued from page 1 
Malloy added that the docu­ment "promoted a positive and friendly relationship between local bishops and Catholic institutions." 
However, when the pope's Ex Corde Eccelsiae came under the scrutiny of the nation's bishops in November 1999, Malloy called the docu­ment's potential impact on Catholic universities "positive­!y dangerous," according to an article in the Nov. 18, 1999 issue of The Observer. 
R. Scott Appleby, professor of .history and director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, explained that Ex Corde was a comprehensive, broad-rang­ing statement about higher education unrelated to the 1990 Apostolic Constitution. 
"It was a papal document -Malloy had noth­ing to do with it," 
Appleby said. ''I've been with him Father Daniel He said the Jenky as an aux­
in his chapel in the 

controversy was iliary bishop for
Vatican a couple of

related to the the diocese of issue of academ­times, and that's a Fort Wayne­ic freedom and South Bend. Prior
very moving 

especially the to the nomina­
experience.

pope's mandate, tion, Jenky, a which requires Holy Cross priest, local bishops to Father Edward Malloy served as the approve theology University President rector of the 
professors at Catholic univer­sities. 
"Malloy led the voices of those who wanted implemen­tation of the papal document to reflect academic freedom," Appleby said. "Even though [the University] is Catholic, the underlying principle is academic freedom, and Father Malloy is very much in that tradition. There's no question that he wants to be Catholic but also a top-rate university." 
Appleby said Malloy's dis­agreement was not with the pope or the general statement but the method of implemen­tation. 
However, Appleby said the approval of Ex Corde by U.S. bishops has not greatly harmed the academic freedom of Catholic universities. 
"Very few bishops have interpreted the mandate as requiring them to scrutinize in great detail everything that goes on in the classroom," Appleby said. Malloy and Hesburgh remember 
"I've been with him in his chapel in the Vatican a couple of times, and that's a very moving experience," University President Father Edward Malloy told The Observer Thursday. "He's clearly a man of deep prayer." 
Malloy also worked with the pope on issues related to 

Tuesd 

Softball VS Eastern Michigan (doubleheader) at 3:00 &5:00 PM 
higher education and toured locations in Poland frequent­ed by the late pontiff in his childhood. 
"I visited the church where he was baptized and the house where he lived in most of his life," Malloy said. 
University President Emeritus Father Theodore Hesburgh met John Paul II right after the former Karol Woityla assumed the position at the Vatican, according to the South Bend Tribune. 
In a statement Saturday, Hesburgh referred to John Paul II as a "Pope for the World," explaining that he "traveled millions of miles, to every corner of the earth, to bring his personal message of faith, hope and love to all of the world, not merely to Catholics." ND appointments and titles 
The pope has appointed at least two priests with Notre Dame connections to higher positions in the church. 
In 1997, the 
pope named 
Basilica of the 
Sacred Heart. 
Theology department chair John Cavadini said the pope later appointed Jenky to bish­op of Peoria, Ill. 
In 1995, the pope appointed Rev. Charles Schleck Titular Archbishop of Africa. Schleck graduated from Notre Dame in 1948 with an undergradu­ate degree in philosophy and served on the University's fac­ulty for a short period. 
In addition to making appointments, John Paul II made the Sacred Heart Church a minor basilica in 1992. In a Jan. 17, 1992 Observer article, Jenky said the title was "a papal recogni­tion that Sacred Heart is a church with an international reputation; it is a center for prayer, pilgrimage and devo­tion and a place where the liturgy is done with amplified richness." The pope's gift 
Those attending Mass in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart are undoubtedly drawn to the large painting of John Paul II surrounded by flowers. However, just to the left, a small crucifix sits unobtru­sively on a table. 
This simple crucifix was actually a gift presented by the pope to Hesburgh, accord­ing to a plaque in front of the display. Family ties 
If the adage "blood is thick­
; 

8 Baseball VS Toledo S at 5:05PM 
e Frank Eck Stadum ~ 
er than water" has any merit, then the pope has one essen­tial and quasi-familial link to the surrounding Notre Dame community. South Bend, Ind. and Czestochowa, Poland are sister cities -Czestochowa being the site of John Paul II's childhood home. 
Indiana governor Joe Kernan originally formed the sister city agreement in 1992 after visiting Poland when he was serving as mayor of South Bend. 
A press release from cur­reo t South Bend mayor Stephen Luecke outlined the reasons for the agreement. 
"Along with the large Polish community of South Bend that draws much of its heritage from cities like Czestochowa, the two cities are also similar in size and in their common appeal to religious communi­ties because .of the University of Notre Dame's Saered Heart Basilica and Czestochowa's renowned monastery complex of Jasna G6ra, the home of the famous Black Madonna," the release said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 



Expanded May Term/Summer 2005 
DATES: May 16-June 3, 2005 
TUITION: $332 per credit hour (Ex: $996 for a 3 hour course). Adeposit of 112 total tuition is due by April29. Financial aid is not available for May Term. 
HOUSING: On-campus housing will be available to students attending SMC May Term classes. Housing applications are available in the Education Department, the Office of the Registrar and the Office of Special Events in the lobby of O'Laughlin Auditorium. There is no board plan avail­able; students must dine off campus or use the kitchen facilities in th!3 residence hall. No linens will be provided. 
Double room rate, 3weeks: $398 Additional week: $133 

Due to housing limitations, single rooms may or may not be available. Completed Housing applica­tions must be submitted to the office of Special Events by April 15, 2005. Ahousing contract will be completed at this time. 
SCHEDULE OF CLASSES is available via PRISM. Select "Class Schedule," then "Summer 2005:' Click on "Summer'' to view all courses offered or use the PRISM search feature. 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS IN EDUCATION must complete the summer application form and be advised in the Department of Education, 321 Madeleva. The SMC/ND Co-Exchange Program is not in effect during the summer. Transcripts must be requested for grades to be for­warded to Notre Dame. 
Free Admission 
With 
Baseball 
Games 
THE OBSERVER 






USINESS
Monday, April 4, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 
10,404.30 -99.46

}ones 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 1,613 136 2,189,399,820

VII' 

AMEX 1,462.91 +3.21 NASDAQ I ,9X4.81 -14.42 NYSE 7,136.36 -44.96 S&PSOO 1,462.91 +3.21 NIKKEI(Tokyo) II ,723.63 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,9 14.00 +19.60 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) -1.0 I -0.37 36.20 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.21 -0.05 24.12 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -1.06 -0.19 17.70 MCIINC (MCIP) + 1.57 +0.39 25.29 INTEL CP (INTC) -0.95 -0.22 23.01 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.78 -0.37 47.29 I0-YEAR NOTE -1.00 -0.45 44.51 5-YEAR NOTE -1.17 -0.49 41.25 3-MONTH BILL +0.18 +0.05 27.27 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) + 1.87 57.27 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -2.80 428.30 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) +0.68 96.93 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 07.6800 EURO 0.7754 POUND 0.5323 CANADIAN$ 1.2159 
IN BRIEF 
ATA declares net loss of $817 million 
INI>I/\N/\POI.IS-The panmt company of 1\T/\ /\irlines lne. n~ported a not loss of more than $800 million for 2004 in its annual rnport 111m! Thursday with the U.S. Securitins and l·:xchange Commission. 
Tlw $817 million loss induded a $100.2 mil­lion operating loss on rnvenue of $1.5 billion, and $638.5 million in expenses related to 1\T/\'s Chapter 1 I reorganization. That compared with earnings of $15.8 million on almost the same amount of nwenue in 2003. 
The biggest expense related to the bankrupt­cy n~organization was $568 million in lease rnjeetions on jnts removed from service as the airlirw downsiznd. 
1\T/\ on Thursday was holding an auction to soli iL<; Chil~ago Expross mmmuter airline and a !waring on tho potential sale was scheduled Friday in hankrupky court in Indianapolis. 
Living will software sales surge 
K/\NS/\S CITY, Mo. -Salns of eomputer soft­warn to ~~reate living wills are surging amid the high-profile debatn over Tnrri Schiavo, the s1werely brain-damaged Florida woman who died Thursday. 
"We've nevnr seen sales likn this," said Clark Miller, a spokesman for Nolo.eom Inc., tlw cre­ator of Quicken WiliMaker Plus 2005. 'The liv­ing will has simply become a part of /\merican consdousness in a way it hadn't been beforn." 
WillMaknr Plus salns ros~ 6:3 percent in the fivn days after March 18, when Schiavo's feed­ing tube WitS rnmoved, eompared to the prior five days. /\t Kansas City-based II&H Block Inc., spokesman Tom l.inafelt said sales of the com­pany's Wli.I.Power program jumped 95 percent last week. Other sollware makers -including Carson, Calif.-basnd Cosmi Corp. and Socrates Media I.U:-also rnportnd spikes in sales. 
"What happens in a ease like this, it becomes a bnllwnther fi1r folks to bneome aware about an issue that rwrmally thny wouldn't," said Miehanl Kahn, a spoknsman for Chkago-based Socrates. 
Softwarn industry analyst Chris Swenson of rnsnarch firm NPD Croup, said will-writing soft­warn and other lngal programs have seen a 63 pnrennt increase in sales over the past quarter, eompan~d with the previous thrnn months. 
AI G admits to improper accounting 
Insurance giant acknowledged transaction errors with Berkshire Hathaway 
Associated Press 

NI\W YOHK -/\mid widening government probes into its financial pntetiees, insuranco giant /\nwrican International Croup Inc. aeknowlndgnd Wndnnsday it had improp­erly booknd transactions with a unit of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. that artifi­cially boosind its reservns. 
/\IG also said that it had not yet completed an in­housn reviow of its account­ing and would havn to delay filing its annual n~port until /\pril :w. New York-based /\IC natlier had said it expected to file the report on Mareh 31. 
Tho disclosures came as tlw Seeuri ties and Exchange Commission and Nnw York /\ttornny General Eliot Spitzer were prnpar­ing to question Al<;'s for­mer chief executive oflicor, Maurice "llank" Grnenberg, and Bnrkshire llathaway's chairman and CEO, billionaire investor Warren Bullett, next month about the controversial reinsurance deal. 
Buffett is to speak with investigators on April 11, and Greenberg the follow­ing day. 
Berkshire Hathaway has said that Buffett was not aware of how the transac­tions were structured "or on any improper use or Howard Mills, acting apparent lack of accounting company's financial stalll­purpose" of the transac­superintendent of New controls at AIG is alarming, nwnts. If there is no risk tions. York state's insurance in our view." transfer, the deal shouldn't 
Greenberg, who is 79 and department, which is also AIG shares dropped be booked as insurance. led /\IG for nearly 40 years, participating in the investi­$1.04, or 1.8 percent, to In the case und1~r rovinw, was forced out as CEO by gation, called AIG's state­close at $57.16 in /\IG purchased reinsurarH~e the board earlier this ment "pretty significant" Wednesday trading on the from Berkshire llathaway's month and has said he will and added: "These are very New York Stock Exchange. (;eneral He Corp. in the resign shortly as chairman serious issues, and their Berkshire Hathaway shares fourth quartnr of 2000 and of the company. own admission that they dosed virtually unchanged first quarter of 200 I. 
In a detailed four-page misled this department, we at $87,000.10, also on the Investigators have said statement, /\IG also dis­take very seriously." Big Board. that /\IG used thn deals to closed a number of other Mills said that AIG needs The investigators are pump up its reserves wlwn accounting problems,· to continue "to get their looking into a number of markets wern uneasy about induding the way it booked house in order, and we reinsurance transactions, the company's outstanding deals with Caribbean-based believe they will do so." which involve insurance liabilities. , insurance companies. Analysts at Morgan purchased by insurance /\IG said Wndnesday that 
/\IG said, however, that Stanley said that "some companies like /\IG. its accounting for the trans­the known errors and investors may take comfort Heinsurance traditionally actions with General He changes in accounting that details are beginning has been used to spread "was improper and. in light would reduce the compa­to emerge" on /\IG's side. out risk among insurers of the lack of evidence of ny's $82.87 billion in capi­They added, however, but, in some cases. it has risk transfer, these transac­tal by about $1.7 billion, or that "the depth and been used for the question­tions should not have been 2 percent. breadth of troubles and able purpose of polishing a rncorded as insurance." 

Digital photo era changes photography 
As the digital revolution sidelines Digital cameras are now in about 43 
Associated Press 

film, the photo industry is having to million homes in /\meriea, and that 40 
HOCIIESTEH, N.Y. Jesse rely more heavily on high-margin percent penetration could reach 70 Eisenberg came within a technological services and supplies -inks, chemi­percent by 2007. The more main­whisker of losing all her honeymoon cals, paper -that go into making stream they become, some analysts snapshots. prints. argue, the more likely that old printing 
The 31-year-old lawyer's digital Yet the picture is not quite as it habits will re-establish themselves. images, stored on an online photogra­seems. "Everybody treasures memories, phy site, vanished while she was in the While there's no hint of a falloff in and what makes memories more vivid hospital this winter having her first the desire of Americans to freeze­than a photograph, a print?" said child. She had given up all hope of frame the world around them, the Ulysses Yannas of Buckman, Buckman retrieving them when they suddenly overall number of images converted & Heid in New York. Thut impulsn, lw reappeared on her computer more into prints has been slipping since the thinks, "will not fade, it's human than a month later. dawn of the 21st century. nature." 
"I can't believe we got them back!" The drop-off coincided with the Bolstering Yannas' belief is a recent she exclaimed. "Oh my God, I'm going lightning transition to a world without frenzy of acquisitions or online photo to be printing all day today." film. A few years ago, there wasn't a startups, whieh are projeded to churn 
It's a refrain that sets the photo framework in place to help digital out 700 million prints this year, up industry's heart radng. shutterbugs print easily or cheaply. from 400 million in 2004. 
~-~--­
f page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 4, 2005 
Pope 
continued from page 1 
his life." 
"We have had the opportunity to see him give real meaning to the universality of our faith," Warner said. 
He placed the prayer service in the context of Notre Dame's uni­versity setting. 
"I think that this service and these services all around the world will show us all again so many people loved John Paul II, but that he had a special love lor young people," Warner said. 
Touching on what he consid­ered remarkable aspects of the pope's life, Warner said John Paul II grew up in poverty, studied the­ology underground during the Nazi occupation and was a "great sportsman." 
"Since he was such a holy man, it's clear he is with God right now," he said. 
Students thought the prayer 



Rally 
continued from page 1 
world-renowned speakers, Dan DiSilva and Trish Short. DiSilva, a musician who has played around with world with musicians such as James Taylor, the Chieftains and B.B. King, spoke to the crowd about his experiences. After 10 years of touring, DiSilva formed the band Crispin, a Catholic funk band that uses its music to spread the Catholic message to listeners. 
DiSilva spoke to the students about chastity, basing his talks on the Theology of the Body writings by Pope John Paul II. 
Short. a former model and actress turned producer and director who for the past 10 years has been producing pro­life videos and music for pro­life ministries throughout the world. She spoke to youth about the power of purity and charity and the role of faith and scripture in today's cul­ture. 
Lisa Bonadies and Elizabeth Johnston are two sophomores from Marion High School in South Bend who attended the rally and listened to the speakers. 
"I think they really got their point across," Bonadies said. "IDiSilval really communicat­ed with kids," Johnston said. 
In addition to the speakers, HTL members performed skits on chastity and showed a power point presentation on abortion awareness. There was also a prayer service and music performed by DiSilva. 
Vendors from Indiana HTL, Heason Enough to Act and ND HTL were at the rally selling T-shirts, and handing out pamphlets other literature to inform students. 
The Women's Care Center was also there showing sup­port for their message. 
"We're here to support what they're doing," said Judy Madden, the Director of Education for the center. "They've got a friend here in the community." 
The Women's Care Center is a resource center that was started 20 years ago by a Notre Dame professor, and has extended to 12 eare cen­ters and extends assistance to over 10,000 women. It reach­us out to women who face unexpected pregnancins. It is the biggest provider for this type of' work in Northwest Indiana. 
E-mails and flyers about the rally WPre sent to 7 diocese including Chicago, Fort Wayne and Grand Hapids areas. However. many high schools were on spring break this week and were unable to attend the rally. 
"This eould have been dou­bled ... if it were at a different time," Grossu said. "We want this to grow into something ND HTL is known for. Notre Dame as a premiere Catholic university in the nation and in the world should have a real voice in spreading the pro-life message to the youth of the nation." 
Grossu is optimistic about the future of the rally. ''I'm so excited about the feedback we're getting from the media," she said. "It sur­passed my expectations." 
The rally ended with a mass in the basilica which included singing by the ND Women's Liturgical Choir. 
Contact Katie Laird at klaird@nd.edu 

service was an appropriate way to pay their respects to the pope, whose passing was unfortunate but not unexpected, they said. 
"I wish he was stifl here, but heaven's a better place because of him," freshman James Carlson said. 
"I thought that [the service] was a nice way to commemorate his death," sophomore Hebeeea Moss said. "I was glad they had it planned before." 
Carlson said he wished more people had attended the service, especially considering Notre Dame's Catholic identity. 
"I expected !the crowd] to be out to the road," Carlson said. "You don't see a pope die every day, or every year, for that mat­ter." 
A memorial Mass will be cele­brated today at 5:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Ileart. The Mass will be preceded by a 4:30 rosary service. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 

#16 CLUB LULU'Jf.1 
Onion. lettuce, alfalfa sprouts, tomato, mayo, sliced lettuce, tomato. & our homemade Fresh sliced turkey breast, bacon, lettuce. tomato. & cucumber, Dijon mustard. oil & vinegar, and oregano. Italian dressing. mayo. (JJ's original turkey &bacon club) 

I WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK !r 
SOUTH BEND 54570 N. IRONWOOD DR. 57 4.277.8500 "VOUR MOM WANTS VOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOJIN'S!'' © 
®2005 JIMMY JOHN'S FRANCHISE INC. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. We Reserve The Right To Make Any Menu Changes. 
Monday, April 4, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Schiavo case spurs statehouse debate, unique coalition 
Associated l'rcsi 
Thn arguments surrounding Tnrri Schiavo will live on in statdwusn debate and new laws if an mnnrging coalition of' dis­ability rights activists and right­to-lifnrs succeed in turning the national agony over hnr casn into a re-examination of when and how our lives come to an end. 
So far, only a few legislators in a handful of states have sought significant changes to their laws, which define the fundamental elements at stake -how a per­son can set limil<; on their med­ical care, who gets to decide what their wishes are, what evi­dence is needed to prove it. 

None have yet become law and the chances for most, if not all, are slim this year, with some leg­islatures finished and many far along in their work for this ses­sion. But both Hepublicans and Democrats say the arguments aren't going away. 
The debate is an etrort to strike a new balance betweAn one stance that argues that medical care and morality mAan life must be pursued in nearly all eases, and another stance, crafted over decades of changing views about death, that some may choose to end drastically damaged lives several states. 

Legislation has also been intro­duced in Alabama, llawaii, Louisiana, Minnesota and South Dakota. The Louisiana bill is called the "lluman Dignity Act": Alabama's is tho "Starvation and Dehydration Prevention Act." 
Many measuros predate recent weeks of attention to Schiavo, 
• 


that depAnd on artifidal means. though some dmw their inspira­"I really wanted to make sure tion diroctly from the agonized NOTRE DAME CENTER FOR ETHICS AND 
we gave a default for life and not public debate over the 41-year­for death," said Kansas state old woman's death-like one in
RELIGIOUS VALUES IN BUSINESS 
Rep. Mary Pilcher-Cook, a Missouri introduced last
& 

Republican who helped revive a Thursday, the day Schiavo died. 
INSTITUTE FOR ETHICAL BUSINESS WORLDWIDE 
measure that would give courts a "I was gripped by what I was greater chance to review deci­watching and couldn't believe sions to end life-sustaining care, the state of Florida would let this 
PRCHJDJY PRESENT 

lessening the role of guardians woman die in this manner," said or doctors. "Our most vulnerable GOP state Hep. Cynthia Davis. citizens are in fa,ct in the most Iler bill would bar anyone from 
Amy Domini 

danger of losing their life without direeting that artificially supplied l'ounder and CEC) of Domini Social Investment, Ll ,C 
any recourse." food and water be withheld or who will be honored with the 
She was joined in her efTort by withdrawn without a specific disability activists, many aligned written directive from the
llesburgh Award for Husiness Ethics 

with liberal causes, and patient. Democrats in the state HousA. TherA's also a slew of legisla­
and 

The measure stalled in the tion around living wills and other Kansas Senate, however, as the end -of-life issues that wouldn't Professor Robert Audi 
session ended for the year last further thfl aims of this emerging Friday. group -like a Nevada measure
( ;allo Chair in Husiness Ethics 

"We don't want to get into the that would let a guardian end
University of Notre Dan"lc 

politics of the right or the left or life-sustaining measures even if Speaking on 
whomever," said M ichaAI it's against a patient's known Donnelly at the Disability Hights wishes, as long as it's in thoir Center of Kansas. "This isn't best interests. 
"Ethical Leadership and Leadership 
about polities, this is ·about how The views of medical care and 
in Ethics" 

we value or don't value the lives ending life have shifted ovnr the people with disabilities have." past 30 years as the country As the 2005 l'mnk Cahill Lecture 
His group had been working grappled with brain-damaged or for years to revisit the issue, and coma-bound patients whose 
Tuesday, April 5, 2005 

came together with several con­families said they shouldn't be Jordan Auditorium, 
servative legislators to move the forced to live a life they wouldn't bill forward. Elsewhere, the want, starting with Kamn Ann
Mendoza College of Business 

National Right to Life Committee Quinlan in 1975, then to Nancy
5:00 p.m. -6:30 p.m. 

has produced model legislation Cruzan in 1990 and now to and is working with legislators in Schiavo. 
Study in 






TOKYO 

• 
No Japanese language requirement 

• 
Experience Asian culture 


• 
Take courses in Anthropology, Art History, Literature, Theology, Philosophy, Economics, History, Sociology, and Business 


INFORMATION 
April 5 at 5pm 215 Debartolo 

-~----­

I
! 
Tl..·IE OBSERVER 

I IEWPOINT
page 10 Monday, April 4, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDimR 8USINFSS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 

AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds Assr. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AsST. MANAGJ.!'IG EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 

SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukk.~la SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Jim Coulter CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independenr, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisemenrs based on content. 
The news is reported as acmrately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistanr Managing Editor and department editors. Commenraries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. · 
Viewpoinr space is available ro all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer IWSPS 'i99 2-1000) i~ published Monday through FridJy except during exam and vaation periods A ~uhscription tnThc Observer is $100 for one .acadcmic yeill'; $5S fur one ~mC5u:;. 
The Observer i5 published Jl: POSTMASTER • tl24 South Dinin~ ~ 13.11 Send address con«:dot1s to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 

'Periodical postage p.1id Jt Notte Dame P..O. Box. 779 and additional mailing ofliccs. 021! S<~uth Dining I Jail Nom: Dame, IN 46556-077<) 
The Ob<.ctvcr is J memher uf the A\'>l}l;iatcd PreM. AU reproduction righu; .uc 
r~ol 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Graphics Kate Antonacci Desiree Zamora Megan O'Neil Sports 
Meghanne Justin Schuver Downes Chris Khorey Matt Lozar Kevin Brennan 
Tricia deGroot Scene Viewpoint Christie Bolsen Joey King 

Prior to arriving at Notre Dame, I had never been much of a Catholic. I rarely made it to Mass more than once or twice a month. I had attended more bar mitzvahs than baptisms. There was not a single cru­cifix anywhere in my house. And when asked Joey in CCD class in third Falco grade who the Pope was, I confidently Party Ounces answered, "The 
to Falco 
President of Italy." 

Nevertheless, while reading the front page of Saturday'sNew York Times, specifi­cally those stories regarding the global mourning over the impending death of Pope John Paul II, I started crying. Yes, the kid who could stoically get through "E.T.," "Ufe is Beautiful," "Schindler's Ust," and even "Hudy" without shedding a trmr, start­ed weeping over a simple page of newsprint. It truly was one of the most peculiar moments of my life, and at the time, I had no idea what came over me. 
After all, I have never been to the Vatican, nor have I ever even watched the Pope speak on television. I have never read any of hi<> encyclicals or apostolic letters, and nntil recently, I barely even knew what it was that he did besides drive around in a bubble car and wear a funny hat. On top of that, I have oftQn fonnd myself in disagree­ment with many of the more orthodox posi­tions of John Paul II, especially in regards to abortion, euthanasia, birth control, gen­der, homosexuality and embryo research. Still, when I read about hi<> illness and his effects on the worldwide Catholic communi­ty on Saturday, I cried like a baby. What was wrong with me? 
It soon dawned on me that I finally 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 

For what will you most remember Pope John Paul II? 
Vote Thursday by 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
A newhope 
understood what it felt like to bn lost in a cave without a torch, and when I saw that the rest of the world's one billion Catholics shared my predicament, it may have pushed me over the edge. Upon further reflection, I began to recognize that my entire life had been spent under the mis­conception that a person had to wear a crown or fight wars or live in a white house to truly deserve the title of Leader. I think what really had me upset and confused on Saturday morning, though, was the realiza­tion that I didn't know a damn thing about how the world worked. 
For all of the importance that I have blindly bestowed upon the oflice of the presidency of the United States, I never stopped to tllink about what made that position so great. Sure, a president can improve the lives of some people through tax breaks and social programs, but that does not change the fact that a huge chunk of the globe typically despisns tllis "leader of the free world," regardless of which political party pulls his strings. 
On Saturday, after seeing the equally dis­traught faces of European citizens in St. Peter's Square, Middle Eastern nuns in Jerusalem and New Yorkers at St. Patrick's Cathedral, all huddled together as one col­lective mass of humanity, life began to make sense again, and I cried with my fel­low brothers and sisters. If one man could have such a profound uniting effect on the world -a world full ofgenocide and racial discrimination and war and political malfeasance and greed and hunger and terrorism and hatred-then humanity might still have a chance. 
Great leaders, I realized, do not grace the world with their presence very often, and 

Submit aLetter
:' a E.. dt.tor lt I:
..·} .·. ·····l ....·· .........•. d ·. t


to th
.. . .•,. . .... . •· . .. . . .... .. f 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 1 

fbr every Gandlli, Martin Lutl1er King Jr. and John Paul II that emerges to bring us together, there are a hw1elred million otlmr Osama bin Ladens, Adolf Hitlers and Kim Jong lls around to split us apart. The tricky part, of course, is distin1-,ruishing between the uniters and the dividers before it is too late. 
For me, I never quite understood just how important John Paulll was as the glue that held over one billion of the Earth's chil­dren together. If I had known earlier about his diplomatic efforl<> lor achieving global harmony by visiting 129 countries, his vital role in ending communism and restoring peace to the Middle East, and his passion for spreading the values of Catholic social teaching in the hopes of rescuing all of hun1anity from its unnecessary sufiering, perhaps I would not have been so surprisnd by Saturday morning's newspaper. Maybn if I had understood that the true leader of tl1e frne world was not a person whose primary goal was American hegemony, but a person whose only goal was global solidarity, then I probably would have been better prepared to handle the emotional distress of losing the Pope. 
Regardless, though, I finally feel safe say­ing that there is still a chance for the human race to come together and prosper, and that is just another reason to shed tears of joy over the accomplished life of John Paul II. 
Joey Falco is a sophomore American Studies major. He can be contacted at jfalco@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Have no fear ofmoving into the unknown. Simply step out fearlessly knowing that I am with you. therefore no harm can befall you; all is very. very well. Do this in complete faith and confidence." 
Pope John Paul II 


r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------­

THE 0HSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Monday. April 4, 2005 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Filling in 'the whole truth' 
The column of Professor Hice on March 24, 
"The whole truth, and nothing but ... " falls .short of delivering the wholn truth as prom­
ised. In at least one respect, the column 
rnsnmhlns Dan Brown's runaway bestseller 
"The DaVind Code." It deploys enough truth to 
be crPdible but not so much as to be accurate 
or fair. 
To compare Hice's viewpoint to the contro­
versial novo! may strike some as inappropriate 
and misleading. I felt the same when I read 
Hicn equate snveral difTnrent inclinations: 
smoking, problem drinking, shoplifting, eating 
disorders and homosexual feelings. Hice per­
sists in t.lw durnsy, orw-dimensional compari­
son because he prefers the University be res­
olutn and uniform in its opposition to so-called 
disordnn~d inclinations. Hather than bn sensi­
tive to the complexity of human experinnee 
and thn rnality of what sdence teaches us 
about human dnvelopment, he prnfors tho 
University proclaim "the inclination to any dis­
orden~d act is i{self disordernd" and explore 
no more. 
Whilo tho argument may be technically cor­
rect. aceording to its source at least, it is not a 
big enough idea to fullill Notre Damn's promise as a Catholic University. An approach so exceedingly limited, so legalistic, and so inflex­ible is contrary to the intellectual spirit of the University. Moreover, quoting the argument to discourage those who seek justice-civil rights and social acceptance in society and the Church -for gays and lesbians is contrary to the core of the Catholic message: the enor­mous love that Christ had for humankind. 
No one can forget the scandalous love Christ demonstrated for humankind, a love of such scandalous proportions -breaking bread with sinners and dieing on the cross in tJ;le manner of a common criminal -that the radical example lives on today. I hope the example will continue to challenge assumptions and question convention at Notre Dame. I applaud all the members of the University, past and present, who are open to the radical experi­ence of that love and who feel challenged by it enough to open their hearts and their minds to the idea of change. 
Edward Cottrell alumnus class of 1994 March 31 
page II 

New ditnension to the dotne debate 
I have been reading thn letters to the nditor surrounding thn controversy between the graduating class and the administration regarding the re-gilding of the domn. I havn to say that I strongly support the students' point of view. 
I vehemently disagree with the statement of Executive Vien President John Al1leck-Graves that graduation is not about thn physical dome. You don't remember standing in front of it getting your picture taken. It will be 30 years this May sincn I stood in front of the dome to have my graduation picture taken with my parents and I vividly recall the event. That picture stands on my desk in my study. I look at it everyday and remember the moment. 
Also, )"remember the first time that I saw the dome as my par­ents and I drove oiT the Indiana Turnpik11. Every timn since I look for that same view when I go to Notrn Dame, The physical dome symbolizes Notre Dame and what it means to be a Notrn Damn graduate. Therefore, tho meaning of graduation is very much symbolized and remernbernd by the physical dome and standing in front of it to have your picture taken with your family. 
Patrick J. Kennedy alumnus class of !97'i April! 



U-WIRE 
Whatever happened to 'Hello?' 
My first oxpnl'inncn with "rna!" dancn parties was horn on the Farm. WhiiP at thesn parties, I observPd an alarm­ing plwnomnnon that I just can't keep to myself. It might just bn that I'm old, but when I was in middle/high school, the way to w;k a girl to dance was: 
Adam

"IIi, do you wanna dancn?" Old 
Llchtenheld

fitshionnd. I know, becausn then we'd just pop in an 8-traek and 
Stanford 

l•'rankenstnin the night away. (You 
University

do rnmmnber Uw FrankPnstoin 
Stanford Daily 

sehool ofslow dancing, right'? Loekod arms, still' logs and roeking sidn to sidn'?) Well, apparnntly, in modorn times, the way to <L<ik a girl to dance is a little more Discovery Channel, if you will. 
From my observations, hen~'s what you do: First, spot a girl you'd liko to dance with who is, strangPiy enough, aln~ady daneing-usually in a cirelo of her dosest female or gay male friends. Then -and this is important-you wait for her to turn away from you. At that point, you quirkly-berausn she might turn back around-sneak up behind her. Finally, and I'm sorry to alarm my more sensitive rnaders, but this is actually trun, you begin ram­ming your pnlvis into her from bohind. Once this "rnquest" is madn, the female expresses her approval or disapproval in an equally non-verbal and rudimentary way. After tak­ing a quiek glance back, and surveying the opinions of her surrounding friends of the would-be suitor, she either eir­des away or pushes back against this ramming in acquies­cence. Ah, young love. 
At first, I was shocknd, and I asked some of my under­grad female friends about this. They all immediately expmssnd their disapproval and disgust. Yet, not a week later, I saw two of them personally engaging in this very same behavior. Neat. 
What's worse, I trind my old method and got an evnn more shocking result. One night, as I moved through the crowd at a dorm party, I came faeo to face with a young lady. Now, to be honest, she was a littlo bit ofa linebackor to my sort of wide-receiver, ifone was to compare physiques, but I thought I'd at least say hello. Now, the only words that left my mouth were "Hi, how's it going?" What happened nnxt still haunts me. 
In a split second this girllatdwd herself onto me with three of her four available limbs (thankfully saving one li1r standing purposes) like I was the last pint of water on "Survivor: Palua" and began bucking like a rodoo broneo. And just like in rodeo, al'ter the first eight seeonds, I want­ed oil'. But I was awash in eonf'usion and guilt. Perhaps in this brave new world of' sneak-attack pnlvk thrusting and backing that thing up, my simple J.,Tf'enting had a nnw and frightful meaning. I held on until rnscund by frinnds but wondered secretly: I lad I brought this on mysoll'? 
I supposn my qunstion rnally is: Whatevnr happonod to "hello?" Are we just so smart that tho simph~ habiL-; of polite sodety no longnr apply'? Is it wrong that thoro are communication majors doing this'? 
This column originally appeared on March 28 in the 5'tanford Daily, the daily publication at Stan.fbrd University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
College, contraception and strategies against stupid things 
We all do stupid things. Espedally as stressed, over­worked, poor, akohol-loving college students away from school for a week on an exotie beach crawling with gor­geous mnmbnrs of the opposite sex-we all do stupid things. 
Hecognizing this reality, a prn­
Adam

spring-break campaign by University 
Llchtenheld

lloalth Serviens advnrtised "stoeking up" on various contraceptives (includ­
University of 

ing thn morning-after pill) bnfore 
J11isconsin 

Univnrsity of' Wiseonsin students hit 
Badger /Ierald 

the bnekoning sexual havens scattered along tho coasts of Mexico and Florida. Th11 rationale bt~hind the UHS advertisements was rea­sonable-it would be dillkult for individuals to obtain eontracnptivns in unknown places and having resources at hand "just in ease" would be wise lest something were to happnn. 
But aceording to Hepublican state rnpresontativn Dan LeMahieu, tho willingnnss of health serviens to provide prescription birth control to studenL-; is both a waste of' taxpayor dollars (evnn though the UIIS campaign was fundnd 1mlirnly by student sogregatnd foes) and a motivat­ing factor in tlwir dedsions to explore Uwir sexual dnslrns. 
In rnsponsn, LeMahinu is drafting lngislation that would prevent UIIS from advertising the morning-after pill or supplying it to studnnts. lie was quoted as saying that hn is "outrag~~d that our puhlie institutions am giving young eollngn women the tools lilr having promiscuous sexual rnlations, whnthnr on campus or thousands of miles away on spring break." 
Now, I am far from being able to daim understanding of the female psyche, but somehow I feel that the availability of contracnptives does not act as the main sparkplug for women's desires to partake in sexual activity (and I can personally assure you that it is not the primary determi­nant for men). Though most individuals wisely seek pro­tection befilrehand, being able to have safe sex is not the main reason people decide to have sex. 
Personal opinions on premarital relations notwithstand­ing, the urge of young people's uncontrollable hormones and drunken-inflated li1elings of unrestricted lusting will not be deterred by the inability to access contraceptives. Hather, failing to make safe sex tools available would only ensure that the risks of pregnancy and disease would rise signilicantly. Indeed, college studenL'i having sex is not the problem. Unwanted pregnancies that lead to abandoned childrnn and abortions arn the problem. Sexually trans­mitted inli1ctions and the HIV virus, which has become a global npidemic, arn the problem. 
LaMahieu's proposed legislation follows the illogical fnd­erally funded approach to sex education in schools that prnach "abstinence only" and fail to teaeh students either same-sex practices or stone-cold f'aets. Let us recall the report issued several months ago by U.S. Heprnsentative I Ienry Waxman that revealed severe naws and outright lies featured in the teachings of the Bush administration's sex-education policy. Among the misinformation that young people were spoon-fed was that condoms fail to prevent IllY transmission in 31 percent of cases, half of all homosexual teenagers are JIIV positive, mutual mas­turbation causes pregnancy, and abortion leads to stnrili­ty. 
It truly is ironic that those who wish so despnrately to prevent abortions adamantly snek to deprive individuals of the means to practice safe sex and prevnnt unwanted pregnancies. They live in a fantasy world whern young people never yield to their sexual desiros and believe that students' decisions will be innueneed by the opinions and lectures of politicians or the provisions of rnstriding legis­lation. Collegn studenL<> are going to have sex-as it is a personal choice-and it can be done safely or stupidly. But that should bn a responsibility of the individual, not the governrnnnt. 
It is disturbing to witness the eroding ol' the availability ofsafe sex methods, motivated by tlw fanatidsm of' thn religious right and ultra-conservative wing of t.he Republican Party. Their attempts to infringe unnecessary government rngulations based on pnrsonal belief's is nau­snating, particularly when it entails abolishing individu­als' rights of' choien and denying p1mple resources to pro­teet themselves. Pnrhaps we should just adhere to the advice of Matt Groenig's "Basic Sex Facts For Today's Younglillk," "Whnn authorities warn you uf' the sinfulnnss of sex, thern is an important lesson to be learnmi. Do not have sex with the authoritins." 
This column originally appeared on March 31 in the Badger 1/erald, the daily publication at the Unitwrsity r!l Wisconsin. 
11w views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Obserl'er. 
Tl-IE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 12 
Monday, April 4, 2005 
PERFORMANCE REVIEW 
Latin Expressions lights up weekend 

ERIC SALESfThe Observer 

Left, two musicians play in the band for the act "Duelo." Mariachi ND members showed off their musical talents as well in "Popurri de las canciones eclecticos." 
By CHRISTIE BOLSEN Assistant Scene Editor 
In a sold-out performance that almost shook down the chandeliers in Palais Hoyale, Latin Expressions let everyone celebrate all that is Latino in an absolute revelry of a show on Friday night. 
The 15th annual show had too many highlights to count, with each act impressing the rowdy audience for a different reason. The Masters of Ceremonies, Fred Licon and Nicole Orozco, elicited riotous response from the crowd throughout the night by cracking well-placed ethnic jokes. 
"This is not your standard variety show," Licon said. "This is a Latino show," Orozco said, to a round of cheers. 
They did suggest to the audience not to throw their "chones" up on stage, telling people if they didn't know what "chones" were to ask the person next to them. 
After kicking off with dancing and singing acts, the First Class Lady Steppers switched gears when they took the stage with an attitude that 
permeated their fabulous performance. Without a doubt, though, it was After shouting to "watch us do it now," "Machetes" by Ballet Folklorico Azul y they stomped, clapped and danced Oro that stole Act I and possibly the away a seductive routine. entire night. With collars open and 
Lyons sophomore Gabby Obregon's bandannas tied around their heads, a "Tanguillos" stood out spectacularly in stage full of very brave men danced a night full of standout acts. Wearing a among flashes of huge, gleaming brilliantly colored dress, she smiled her knives that they wielded easily in their 
way through a solo  hands for  a  nerv­ 
dance with confi­ ous  audience.  
dence. Her feet were a flurry of movement while her arms were smoothly graceful, as she spun around and flour­ished her ruffled skirt.  Latin Expressions 2005 uRaices" Executive Director: April Garcia Assistant Director: Yadira Huerta Producer: Dennis Bonilla Publicity: Jackie Ramirez Opening Act: Guadalupe Gomez and Miguel Luna  Weapons flying high and specta­tors tensing, they tossed and swished away calmly. Gasps resounded when they sudden­ly shouted, "Blindfold!" and  
"Fuego,"  with  Fundraising: Grise! Ruiz  pulled their ban- 

Tessa Garcia, Natalia Munoz and Grise! Huiz, lit up the stage with a fiery, sparkly dance number featuring colored ribbons, shoulder shimmying and hip shaking energy. Their talents meshed perfectly in their performance, in a riveting number with plenty of sultry moves and raucous cheers coming from the other performers waiting on the upper balcony. 
dannas down over their eyes, continuing with the pace turned up a few notches. It was a mag­nificent display of skill and hotness. 
Act II fea,tured powerful poetry and more talented performances. As expected, Project Fresh was a refresh­ing blast of the unexpected that can only be described as cool. It was inno­vative, even humorous, and combined raw street moves with polished talent. 
Their stage presence was like a sponta­neous party had broken out onstage and everyone was invited to share in the fun. 
The Selena Act began with a dramat­ic recreation of the movie scene where the kids are playing around instead of practicing seriously, until their father chastises them into putting their talent to use. Yadira Huerta, wearing a slinky Selena-like outfit, was dead-on in her singing, with her powerful, gorgeous voice bringing the singer's hits back to life in renditions of songs like, "I Could Fall in Love." This prompted the bal­cony spectators to whip out their light­ed cell phones and wave them slowly from side to side. 
Performers from throughout the night danced through the aisles to pull up audience members as the Selena tribute brightly picked up the tempo. Soon, the exuberant venue was-as bumping and crowded as a party in a little South Quad dorm room. The last act of the show captured the spirit of the evening in that dancing -fun, diverse and proud of it. 
Contact Christie Boisen at cbolsen@nd.edu 


"Fuego," left, lived up to the translated name "fire" with a sultry dance. Ballet Folklorico dancers wowed the crowd by each wielding machetes in both hands. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, April 4, 2005 
page 13 
OPERA PREVIEW 
Opera Verdi Europa coming to Morris 
By CHRIS McGRADY 
Sct•nc Wrircr 
A lasto of opera and l~uropean eullure will lw coming to campus. thanks to NI>Prnsnnts. the University-established group in ehargP of selwduling well­known artists and hands. 
OpPt'a Verdi l~uropa, an opnra troupe out of' Bulgaria, will be performing "La Traviata" tonight at the Morris l'nrl'onning Arts Contor in downtown South BnrHI. <>twra VPrdi Europa was ITnatl'd in 1996 by artist director Ivan Kyurkchiov and is now eonsidProd by many to be orw of top opera groups in l·:uropn and is now bringing thoir abun­dant tallmts to llw United States. 
Tlw fact that famous opera singers such as Orlin Anastassov and Dario Volontn startnd tlwir careers with Opera Verdi J·:uropa is a testament to tho eonsistnnt quality of tho eornpany. This will mark tho seeond time Opera VPrdi Europa has eomo to the Notre l>amo campus. the first time being last yoar's performance of "Ln Boheme" at llw Morris CPntor. 
Tho group is woll-known for perform­ing o1wra in a style that many othnr r.ompanies cannot achieve. The group fuses llw eharaetnl'isties of several dil'­fnrnnt eulturos, namely blending the Bulgarian style with other European styles, c.reating a multieullural nxperi­Pnee that is soeond to none. They have performod opnras ineluding "Ollwllo," "Madamo Buttnrfly," "Carmen" and "Thn Pearl Fishers" as well as produc­tions of tho Mozart and Verdi "Hnquinms." 
Tho three-act "La Traviata" was origi­nally written by famed Italian composer Guisnppe Verdi. Vmdi was born in 1813 as the son of an innkeeper and 
showed promise on the organ. Ironically. he was denied entrance to the Milan Conservatory because of "inadequatn training." In lieu of this, hn studied with Lavigna of La Scala and wrote his first opera "Oberto. contn di San Bonifacio" in 1839. 
Verdi was a huge admirer of Shakespeare and wrote sever­al operas that wnre based on Shak<~spearn's works, namely "Macbeth" and "Othello," the latnr of which was the master­pince of his later life. "La Traviata" was writtnn in tho middle of his earner and secured his establishmnnt as a major force in opera. Now Verdi is considered by many to be the foremost Italian composer of opnra and is one of the most imitated and revered mnn in the opera cul­ture. 

"La Traviata" is based on a play by Alexander Dumas and is a tragic story of a beautiful courtesan and the sacrifices she makes for love. Originally, when the opera pre­miered at the Teatro Ia Fenice in Veniee, Italy in 1853 it was not well roenived by its lirst audience. Believing that his opera was ultimately doomed for failure, a frantic Verdi wrote to a friend the following night, "La Traviata last night was a fiasco. Is it my fault or that of the singers? Only time will tell." 

However, "La Traviata" has withstood that test of time and is now considered to be one of the greatest operas ever created and is also one of the most often performed. The opera will be per­formed in its original Italian form with English supertitles. The main character of Alfredo Germont will be performed by tenor Rumen Shterionov, Violeta Valery will be performed by Yanitsa Nesheva and Flora Bervoix will be played by Silvia-Sorina Munteanu. The opera will bn eondueted by Nayden Todorov. 
Admission to the performance ranges from $20 to $45. Tickets are available either by calling the Morris Center box office toll-free at 800-537-6415 or on the web at www.MorrisCentnr.org. 
Contact Chris McGrady at mcgrady.4@nd.edu 
EXHIBIT REVIEW 

Creative student art impresses in Snite exhibit 
Fine arts students show their talents with varied artistic mediums in contemporary display 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Assistanr Scene Ediwr 
Many of the exhibits fnatured at the Snito Museum of Art are internsting to a handful of peopln on campus with knowll•dge or internst in a certain area of history. But this is not always tho ~~as1~ -as has bonn provnn by thn cur­rPnt Snitn exhibit featuring the work of Notre llame graduatn and undergradu­atn students. 
The Masters of Finn Arts (M.F.A.) and Badwlor of Fine Arts (B.F.A.) students prnsPnt contl~lllporary piocos of art shown in a variety of modiu·ms and rovnring a vast assortment of contem­porary issues. 
All of t.hn pieePs throughout tho 
M.I... A/B.FA. nxhibit arP thought-pro­voking and artistieally impressivn. The rangn of the nwdiums of art indudos prints, paintings, carving on drywall. sculpturn, graphie pieces and much morn. 1\aeh studont has an individual area where his or her art is displayed as a collection. The variety and con­temporary nature of virtually every piece in the exhibit ensures there truly is something for every visitor's taste. 
Some of the art was a bit more tradi­tional in terms of medium, but ehal­lnnging in subject. For instance, Megan Lloyd's eolleetion of ultra ehrome prints features men and women with less-than-desirable figures in lingerie and soxual poses. Allyson Klutnnkamper's collection also featured prints, but the prints focused on female figures that appeared lost and confused in a variety of snttings. Another atten­tion-grabbing set of ultra chrome prints was Haehnl Ourada's collection that focused on the idea of possessions as an extension of the self. The prints visually focus on the connection betwmm snapshots and material items that people may associate with the memory of the snapshot. 
Hhett Poche's collection was called thn "Allngory of the Luscious and the Lecherous" and consistnd of two acrylic paintings on panni. The subjeet of one of the paintings was a woman sur­rounded by a "luscious" scene com­posed almost entirely of pink tones; the painting displayed directly next to it was a mirror image of the woman and hnr setting, but the subject is a male surrounded by mostly blue tones. John Lambert's installation sculpture made from elay focused on the "x" symbol, which is a symbol he considers to "rep­resent the essence of structural strength." 
Many of the pieces were not as tradi­tional due to the medium chosen. Tomas Rivas presented a variety of pieces including a piece carved on white drywall and a piece composed of a pins and thread drawing on the wall. Mary Prendergast's piece ealled "Patternity" focused on the innuenee a woman's relationship with her father has on her own well-being and future relationships. The piece is presented as a series of clothing patterns, showing the type of father that produces a daughter with certain strengths and weaknesses. Matthew Searle presented a collection called "The Internal Theatre" that was composed of throe black boxes with a small peep hole that the viewer looks into·and sees th11 sur­real seones (~reated by Soarlo, "con­structed to reveal something about the viewer." Allison Traynham's piece was a collection of graphie images focused visually around house and conceptually around the idea of the seattered family in the independent world of today. 
Th<l show includes a few borderline satirical pieces such as Eric Monger's "Collecting Grief." The piece is essnn­tially a stand selling the product, "Eternaplast," a product to which one can ".Just add ashes!" of loved ones that have died and bonn ernmatnd. Mark Cook prnsented a graphic piecn satirically focused on tlw eommon depondeney on fossil fuels. 
The industrial and product dnsign pieces worn also intriguing. Al11x Lobos designed a nnw kitchen system, focused primarily on a dishwashing system basnd on the prineiplns of tlw ocean. as well as a system based off the principles of rivers. A safer forklift called "Levisafe" was dnsignnd by Mikn Elwonl and a broom that doubles as a vacuum cleaner, called "CinanSwnnp," was designed by SeI i m N u rude<~ n. Kathryn Colareo designed a shoe to meet the needs of f\ldnrly pnople who are diabetic. 
All in all. the M.F.NB.F.A. exhibit is not to be missnd. And it would bn hard to miss it, considering the show will run through May 15 at tlw Snitn. whieh is frne and open to the public. Tlw work of tho nxtremnly talnntnd art. stu­dents of Notre I>amn dnsnrvns to hn seen and the M.F.NB.F.A. nxhibit abun­dantly proves that point. 
Contact Becca Saunders at 
rsaunder@nd.edu 
-


page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 4, 2005 
NBA 

Bryant injures leg; Grizzlies blow out Lakers 
Marion and Johnson lead Suns to victory over Houston 91-78 
Associated Press The fading Los Angeles Lakers lost Kobe Bryant and yet another game, falling 102­82 to the Memphis Grizzlies on Sunday. Mike Miller scored 22 points to help the Grizzlies move into a tie with idle Denver for sev­enth place in the Western Conference, 8 1/2 games in front of the lOth-place Lakers. Memphis and Denver are three games ahead of ninth-place Minnesota, which beat Sacramento on Sunday. Los Angeles has lost 11 of its last 12 games and eight 

,­
straight on the road. 
The Lakers, already short­handed with Chris Mihm hurt and Lamar Odom placed on the injured list before the game, got limited time from Bryant, who left the game in the second quarter with a right leg injury. Los Angeles also lost Brian Grant in the second quarter to a pair of technicals, leaving the Lakers with a makeshift lineup the rest of the way. 
Memphis led by 27 in the first half and the Lakers never cut the deficit into single dig­its. 
Lorenzen Wright added 16 points for Memphis, while Brian Cardinal had 15 points off the bench. Pau Gasol had 13 points and 10 rebounds. 
Caron Butler led Los Angeles with 18 points, and Chucky Atkins added 13 points. 

Memphis built a 32-14 lead in the first period as the Lakers struggled from the field. Bryant had nine points while the rest of the team missed 11 of its 12 shots. 
The Lakers actually got an offensive spark in the second half after Bryant left the game. Butler keyed the rally with nine points, and Sasha Vujacic had eight as Los Angeles cut into the Memphis lead. The Grizzlies carried a 79-64 lead into the fourth quarter. 
Cavaliers 100, Mavericks 80 
LeBron James kept his cool when his teammates lost theirs. 
James scored 37 points and Zydrunas Ilgauskas added 21 to lead the Cleveland Cavaliers past the Dallas Mavericks Sunday despite the ejection of two players. 
The Cavaliers, who led by 20 points in the second quarter, looked like they would implode late in the third quarter when Robert Traylor and Drew Gooden were tossed for argu­ing Traylor's foul on Jerry Stackhouse. Traylor threw his arm band into the crowd, and Gooden followed by whipping his head band into the seats. 
"LeBron came up right after that and said 'I've got it,"' Cavaliers coach Brendan Malone said. "When you have a player of his caliber saying 'I've got it,' you got it." 
James played every minute for the fourth time in nine games, including two that went to overtime, and is aver­aging nearly 32 points a game over that span. 
"No matter how many min­utes I play, I'm so determined to get to the playoffs right now that I can't afford to get tired," said James, who added 10 rebounds and seven assists. 
The win keeps the Cavaliers (38-34) tied with Indiana for the sixth playoff spot in the Eastern Conference, and snapped their string of eight straight losses to Dallas. 
Following the ejections, Stackhouse hit four straight free throws to tie the game at 
56. Michael Finley added a 3­pointer on the next possession to give the Mavericks their first lead. 

But Finley was flagged with a technical after getting in an official's face over his foul on a 3-point attempt by James, who made all four free throws to make it 60-59 at the end of the period. 
Asked if that was the pivotal play in the game, Mavericks coach Avery Johnson respond­ed: "What's the next ques­tion?" 
The four-point play sparked the crowd and the Cavaliers. Ilgauskas scored eight of the next 11 points on a 13-2 run to open the fourth quarter, mak­ing it 69-61 and securing the lead for good. 
"'Z' was struggling until the fourth quarter and then he came alive," Malone said. 
Ilgauskas scored 15 ·of his points in the second half, and had 16 rebounds. Anderson Varejao stepped up in Gooden's absence, scoring nine with eight rebounds. 
Dirk Nowitzki scored 21 points and Stackhouse added 
16. The loss ended the Mavericks' four-game winning streak. 
Cleveland held a 64-34 rebound edge and played aggressively from the opening tip after losing to Dallas eight days ago, 117-86. 
"They came out and they had payback on their mind," Mavericks guard Jason Terry said. 
After an awful shooting first half, the Mavericks climbed back in it with a 21-5 run late in the third quarter. 
Finley, who was 8-for-8 from 3-point range against Cleveland last week, shot 3­for-7 from beyond the arc and finished with 13 points. The Mavericks were just 6-for-22 from 3-point range. 
"This was a very disappoint­ing game," Johnson said. "You really have to give Cleveland some credit." 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
2000 Tracker.26,000 miles.$5200. 634-4422. 

WANTED 
Childcare for 1 0 and 13 year old FoR RENT after school (3-6) and summer (10­6). Nonsmoker. references and reli-2,4 & 5 B-Rooms,close to campus, able car essential. Call or email call 234-9923, ask for Rod. Violet at 243-3466 or vbloom @nd.edu Room for rent. Very nice apt.com­
plex 10 min. from campus. Summer child care for 14 and 12 yr $350/mo.(517)974-6225. old. Good pay. Please call Lisa 631­9947. 1-yr sublet 1 bdrrn. 10 rnin.to NO. 
$500/mo.Email:ngreenbe@ nd.eduF urn houses on Navarre,Marion & St. Pete Sts. avail 06-07. 233-9947. 

FoR SALE 
Great 6-7 bdrm home available 
OAKHILL CONDO FOR SALE. 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail­4rm, able NOW. Both Close to 2bath. ND,W/D,on-site parking.ND Internet For details fimbel.1 @ nd.edu or Canopy access. Call Joe Crimmins 574-261-0900. 574-229-3659 DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS­ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED­ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7­8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB­SITEWWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234-2436 OR 574-315-5032. 

Clean homes close to NO. 
2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent pro­gram. Blue & Gold Homes (574)250-7653. 
2-6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS. 708 
S.B. AVE -605 ST. PETER CALL 532-1408 MMMRENTALS.COM 6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH + DEP. STAFF AND FAG­ULTY ONLY. CALL BRUCE 876­3537. 
NEED HOUSING FOR 2005-06? Nice Rental Home avail. for 2 stu­dents. 9/12mo. lease avail. Fully furnished. All appliances,utilities, cable TV & high speed internet included. Off street parking. 3.5 miles from NO in nice area. $465/mo/student. 574-656-8695. 
Room for rent. Very nice apt.complex 10 min. from campus. $350/mo. (517)974-6225. 
Two story house completely remod­ 
eled 2003. Ready for 2005-06 school year.  PERSONAL  
Off street parking includes motion  
sensor light for security.  That Ramada bathroom will never  
Four individually locked bedrooms,  be the same  
six blocks from Notre Dame, bus  
stop in front of house, surrounded  Save Vincennes' newspaper, so  
by other student housing,  they can come out with more than  
Laundromat next door (drycleaning  four articles per week  
also),basement available for stor­ 
age of bicycles, luggage, trunks,  Can you put a subhead on that?  
etc., new furnace and central air,  
new kitchen including new stove  Thanks for the smoothies, honey!  
and refrigerator, large living room  
for TV or entertaining, free trash  Let's not lie, I"m going to eat again  
removal. Call 289-4071.  
What are you, adopted or some­ 
3 bdrm house, nicely furnished. 417  thing?  
Napoleon (off NO Ave.)2 min. from  
NO. $1100/mo. 2 roommates/1 lam- Yeah, I"m an idiot  
ily.  
Call 299-9428.  Purple shorts  
www.andersonNDrentals.com  are hot  

.-------------~------------­
Monday, April 4, 2005 
The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
GUEST ARTISTS 
NATALIE MacMASTER 

Friday, April 8 at 8 pm Tickets $35, $28 faculty/staff, $26 seniors, $15 all students 
ALTAN 

Friday, April 15 at 8 pm Tickets $35, $28 faculty/staff, $26 seniors, $15 all students 
EMERSON STRING QUARTET 

Saturday, April 1 6 at 8 pm Tickets $35, $28 faculty/staff, $26 seniors, $15 all students 
NDPRESENTS: LIVE AT THE MORRIS 
OPERA VERDI EUROPA performs LA TRAVIATA 
Morris Performing Arts Center, downtown South Bend Monday, April 4 at 7:30pm Prices range from $45 to $20 . For this show, tickets must be purchased from the Morris: Call (574) 235-9190, (800) 537-6415, or order online at www.MorrisCenter.org 

THEATRE 
ARCADIA 
by Tom Stoppard 
Decio Mainstage Theatre 

Tuesday, April 12 through Saturday, April 23 
(see website for time details) 

_Tickets: $12, $10 faculty/staff, $10 seniors, $8 all students 

MUSIC 
NDT: NOTRE DAME TRIO 
"An Enjoyable Evening of Jazz" 
Wednesday, April 13 at 8 pm 

Tickets: $10, $8 faculty/staff, $5 seniors, $3 all students 
ND COLLEGIUM MUSICUM 

Thursday, April 14 at 8 pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
ND PERCUSSION ENSEMBLE 

Wednesday, April20 at 7:30pm Free and open to the public; tickets required 
NOTRE DAME SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA 
Friday, ApriL 22 at 8 pm Tickets: $6, $5 faculty/staff, $3 all students 

DANCE 

THE SLEEPING BEAUTY Presented by Southold Dance Theater Decio Mainstage Theatre Tickets: $25, $19 seniors, $12 all students Friday, April 29 at 7:30pm Saturday, April 30 at 2 and 7:30pm 
FILM 

BROWNING CINEMA Tickets $6, $5 faculty/staff, $4 seniors, $3 all students 
SOLDIERS OF SALAMINA 

Thursday, April 7 at 7 pm and 1 0 pm sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for Europ~an Studies 
ONG-BAK: THE THAI WARRIOR Friday, April 8 at 7 pm 
Saturday, April 9 at 1 0 pm 

sponsored by East Asian Languages and Literatures 
GHOST IN THE SHELL 2: THE INNOCENCE 
Friday, April 8 at 10 pm sponsored by East Asian Languages and Literatures 
KEKEXILI: MOUNTAIN PATROL 
Saturday, April 9 at 7 pm 

sponsored by East Asian languages and Literatures 
The film will be followed by a Q&A with Director lu Chuan 
page 16 Monday, April 4, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 
SWIMMING 




Phelps edges record-holder Crocker in 1OOm butterfly 
15-year-old Katie Huff matches Phelps with three wins at trials 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Michael Phelps wasn't as generous this time around. 
Phelps, who yielded his spot on the U.S. gold medal 400­meter medley relay to Ian Crocker at the Olympic Games last summer, caught his long­time friend and rival at the finish and won the 100 butter­fly Sunday night at the U.S. tri­als for the world champi­onships in July. 
It was the third victory of the meet for Phelps, who trailed Crocker by more than a half­second at the turn but pulled ahead to win in 51.34 seconds. Crocker, who holds the world record of 50. 76, finished at 51.45. 
"I always feel I have to be at a certain place when I race Ian," Phelps said. "I know he has a faster first 50 than I do, so I always feel like I should be within striking distance, within a half a body length of him. I saw him coming off the wall and I just tried to do everything I could to get home." 
Crocker beat Phelps at the 2003 world meet and at the 2004 Olympic trials. But Phelps won the Olympic gold in that event and then gave his spot in the 400 medley relay so Crocker could have another chance for a gold medal fol­lowing a poor swim in an ear­lier race. Crocker swam the butterfly leg in the relay as the American team won the gold in world-record time. 
"I love to race Ian. He's probably one of my favorite competitors to race," Phelps said. "With the friendship we have, and the competitive edge we both have for that race, it just makes it that much more exciting." 
Phelps and Crocker were almost 2 seconds faster than 
third-place Peter Verhoef. Only the winner of each event is guaranteed a spot on the U.S. team for the world champi­onships in. Montreal on July 24-31, although the second­place finishers likely will be added to the roster depending on how others qualify in multi­ple events. 
"Against Michael, if I'm going to win the race, I'm going to have to be ahead at the 50 [meters] because he's such a strong finisher," Crocker said. "Just be ahead but not so far that I can't hang on in the last 25. I think I'm getting better. at timing that and getting the adjustments right." · 
The 51.~4 was just over two­tenths of a second slower than Phelps' best time in that event. He also held the world record at 51.47 before Crocker broke it two years ago. 
"I didn't feel very good this morning, I didn't feel good in warmup. But the times speak for themselves," Phelps said. "''m definitely happy with 
51.3. Two-tenths off my best time, I can't be disappointed at all." 
Crocker called his rivalry with Phelps "a challenge." 
"Both Michael and I, we race our friends all the time," Crocker said. "They're our friends out of the pool, but when it gets down to business, they're your rival no matter who they are, and you want to beat them. 
"If we can just keep that in mind, I think we have a pretty good friendship." 
Phelps earlier won the 200 and 400 freestyle races. 
In the other events Sunday, the third of six days of trials, Tara Kirk, who finished sixth at the Athens Olympics last year, won the 100 breast­stroke; NCAA champion Kara Lynn Joyce of Georgia won the 50 freestyle; Olympian Jason Lezak won the men's 50 free; and 15-year-old Katie Hoff matched Phelps as a triple­winner with a victory in the 400 individual medley. 


121 S. Niles @ Jefferson. downtown South Bend (574) 232-8488 +Hours: Mon.-Sat. 10-6 
That was EGG-xactly what we needed THANK 'IOU e-'15 


Jackie Clark, Halle Kiefer and the Junior Class for the Easter Parents' Night Out 
Your favorite University Village kids and their grateful parents 

WOMEN'S NCAA TOURNAMENT 

Michigan St. knocks off Tennessee 
Baylor upsets No. 1 LS U to advance to championship game 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS -Michigan State's climb to national promi­nence took the Spartans all the way over Rocky Top. 
Down by 16 points in the sec­ond half, Michigan State rallied -tying the largest comeback in Final Four history -then fin­ished off Tennessee with a pair of fast-break baskets to com­plete the 68-64 upset Sunday night. The win sets up Tuesday's title game with Baylor, another unlikely championship con­tender. 
"This team has the heart of a lion," Michigan State coach Joanne P. McCallie said, her players bouncing and hugging with wide-eyed looks of disbelief on their faces. 
Trailing 45-29 with 16:02 left, Michigan State wouldn't quit and finally caught the Lady Vols at 62-62 on two free throws by Victoria Lucas-Perry with 1:20 left. Moments later, Michigan State point guard Kristin Haynie made a steal and layup to put the Big Ten champions ahead. 
Tennessee's Loree Moore then tied it with a runner in the lane, but Spartans senior center Kelli Roehrig scored underneath to make it 66-64 with 35 seconds to play. 
The Lady Vols (30-5) then missed a 3-pointer and two inside shots before the ball dropped in the hands of Roehrig, who fed Lucas-Perry for a layup with 2.7 seconds left to complete the remarkable comeback. 
The Spartans' last two baskets were their only fast-break points of the night. 
Michigan State's rally tied the largest in Final Four history. In 2001, Notre Dame came back from 16 down to beat Connecticut. But the Spartans didn't pull off the night's only jaw-dropping return to life: Baylor had to overcome a 15­point deficit in the game before to take out overall No. 1 seed LSU. 
Baylor, whose uplifting tale of redemption is the feel-good story in this tournament, advanced to its first national championship game with a 68-57 victory. 
The Spartans (33-3) danced and hugged in a circle as the final horn sounded on their game. McCallie said it wouldn't take long for her to get started preparing for the Lady Bears. 
"By Midnight," she said. "Baylor's a fantastic team, and they had a terrific game also, and we're very excited, and mid­night, we got til about mid­night." 
Baylor 68, LSU 57 
Baylor's comeback ranked among the best in Final Four history. Its defense was deter­mined and incredibly stingy. 
The Lady Bears were simply better -and now the end of their remarkable, uplifting redemption story will be told on the fmal night of the season in the national championship game. 
Baylor got 21 points from Sophia Young and major contri­butions from Emily Niemann and Abiola Wabara to beat LSU in an impressive Final Four debut for a program that not long ago was the worst in the Big 12. 

"Wow! That's a good team we just beat," said coach Kim Mulkey-Robertson, who looked misty-eyed as she pumped two fists up to the roaring Baylor fans. 
The Lady Bears (32-3) have brought a new feeling of pride to a campus stained by scandal in the men's basketball program. They'll take a 19-game winning streak -the longest one going in NCAA women's basketball ­into the title game Tuesday night against Final Four newcomer Michigan State. The Spartans beat six-time national champion Tennessee 68-64 in the second semifinal. 
LSU (33-3), seeded No. 1 over­all in the NCAA tournament, jumped out to an early 15-point lead but the Lady Bears came storming back to tie it at half­time. The Lady Tigers, who· looked restless at times on offense, then built a six-point lead in the second half, only to wilt again. 
"We have a quote in our locker room that says you don't always get what you want, you get what you earn," LSU coach Pokey Chatman said. "I don't think our kids did enough to earn it. We got beat in the paint, we got beat in execution and that right there was the ballgame." 
Baylor frustrated LSU to such an extent with its 3-2 zone that only four players scored for the Lady Tigers, who held their own on the boards but still got outscored 32-24 inside. The comeback was the third-largest in a Final Four game. Michigan State overcame a 16-point deficit in the second semifinal to tie the record set by Notre Dame against Connecticut in the 2001 semifinals. 

Summe-r at Northwestern. Un.iw:rsity offi.r~ an educational expcri~nu tailored to your nct'ds. Our extensive: (:0\11'$<: offerings provide you with m.anf W;lys w '-·:m::h up, get ahtad, or pursue rK-w hue•cs.\~. 
C:ouncs rang~ fmm one-week work~hops in mu~ic to eight~wt~ck inte-nsive sl!'<lucncc:s. where-you r.an e;.trn ;\ full year of aedir in biology. dtemistry, physk~. or a fOrd~u language. Nt~w thi.~ .~ummtr ar~ 3· to 5..d.a)' in.nimrt.~ in pre-law, ncgmi.ation. and l:rearive writing. 
Over -~00 (:(IUT$CS arc couYcnienr and ac..xs..c;ihlc; dayrimc and ~r:ning <'OUT$<'$ au oti~red on our .:;trnpu~e~ in Evanston ;tnd Chi<.agn. 
Registration begins April 11 • Classes begin June 20 
Request a catalog or visit us online today! 
847-491 ~52 50 www.oorthwestern.edu/summer 

NORTHWESTERN 
UNIVERSITY 



AROUND THE NATION 
Monday, April 4, 2005 COMPILED FROM THE QgsERVER'S WIRE SERVICES Page 17 
Baseball America College Top 25 
team  rer:ord  pnwious  
1  Texas  23-4  4  
2  Cal St. Fullerton  11·6  1  
3  Georgia Tech  21-4  5  
4  Tulane  21·5  2  
5  LSU  19·6  3  
6  Mississippi  19-5  7  
7  Florida  19-7  11  
8  Miami (Florida)  22-7  6  
9  Arkansas  21·4  8  
10  Arizona  18-10  13  
11  North Carolina  20-5  16  
12  Stanford  14-8  12  
13  Rice  18·9  15  
14  South Carolina  19-5  9  
15  Baylor  16·10  10  
16  Texas A&M  19-9  14  
17  Florida State  27-5  17  
18  Oregon State  19-4  18  
19  Coli. of Charleston  20·4  19  
20  Nebraska  21-3  20  
21  Mississippi State  17-4  24  
22  Long Beach State  18-10  NR  
23  Auburn  19·8  NR  
24  Arizona State  18-13  NR  
25  Central Florida  25·5  25  

ESPN/USA Softball Collegiate Top 25 
lPam record prev. 

1 Michigan (17) 31·1 1 2 Arizona (3) 26·2 2 3 California 29-3 3 4 Texas 26-4 4 5 Tennessee 37-4 5 6 Texas A&M 31-2 T1 7 Stanford 23-4 6 8 Baylor 31-4 T1 9 Oklahoma 33·6 9 10 UCLA 18·6 10 11 Alabama 36·7 11 12 Georgia 28-7 12 13 Florida 27·6 14 14 Louisiana-Lafayette 22-7 13 15 Oregon State 19·6 15 16 Missouri 27-3 16 17 Washington 16·9 17 18 Fresno State 20-7 18 19 Iowa 25·5 21 20 Arizona State 25·7 22 21 Georgia Tech 32·7 23 22 Nebraska 20·11 T19 23 Northwestern 18·9 24 24 Creighton 22·4 NR 25 LSU 17-11 T19 
Big East Baseball 
ream overall (;onj.' 

1 Boston College 16·6 4-1 2 Rutgers 13-9 3-1 3 NOTRE DAME 13-10 3·1 4 St. John's 12·9 2·1 5 Villanova 14·7 3·3 6 Georgetown 15·13 3·3 7 Connecticut 15·7 2·2 8 West Virginia 11·16 2·4 9 Pittsburgh 13·9 1-4 10 Seton Hall 6·14 1·4 

around the dial 
MEN'S NCAA TOURNAMENT CHAMPIONSHIP North Carolina vs Illinois 8:21 p.m., CBS 
MLB Kansas City at Detroit 12:05 p.m., ESPN2 NY Mets at Cincinnati 1:10 p.m., ESPN Chicago Cubs at Arizona 4:10p.m., ESPN2 
MLB 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK-The tallest Yankee ever began the big task of putting the Boston Heel Sox back in their place. 
Handy Johnson shut down Boston in his New York debut, dominating his new team's old rival. lie out­pitched David Wells, got lwlp from llid11ki Matsui and a rejuvenated Jason Giambi and led the Yanknns ovor the World Sf~rios champions !J-2 Sunday night in tlw major lnagun opmwr. 
;\lroady, thoro wore bad omnns for tlw Hod Sox: Matsui leaped in left to rob Kevin Millar of a two-run homer in the third, Giambi stretched to reel in two bad throws by shortstop Derek Jeter, Alex Hodriguez made a diving stop at third on Edgar Henteria, and Tino Martinez made a backhand dive at lirst to prevent an extra-basn hit by Johnny Damon. 
By the time Matsui hit a two-run homer off Matt Mantei for a X-1 lnad in the eighth, it was almost piling on. 
With Boston taking thn finld as ehampions for the first time in R6 years, the Hnd Sox returnod to the 
IN BRIEF 

Cubs place ace Prior on DL 
to start the season 
PIIOENIX-!\!though he doesn't like it, Mark Prior will start the sea­son on the disabled list for a seeond straight yoar. 
"I didn't want to go on tho DL I still don't. want. to go on thn DL," Prior said beforo tho Chicago Cubs' worknd out at Bank Ono Ballpark on Sunday. "I don't consider myself injurnd lik11 last year wlwn I couldn't !WOn go out and throw." 
Manager Dusty Baker said that becausn Prior couldn't throw for a wnnk bocause of a sore elbow, ho ne11ds to build up his endurance. lie's schedulod to start for Triple-A Iowa in its season openor at ;\lbuquerque on Thursday. 
Last season, Prior started on tho I>L with ;\chilies' tendon and elbow problems and missod two months. 
This year, though, Baker said tho elbow inflammation that sidelined Prior in spring training and had bothered him since early March has 
some of their im probablo triumph staring diroetly at the 6-foot-1 0 Big Unit, brought to tho Bronx to help the Yankeos win tlwir first title since 2000. 
Giambi, back at first baso following injury, illnnss and a rnportnd admission of steroid usc, rm:nivml a pair of standing ovations from tlw snllout crowd of !'i4,S 1S and wnnt 1-for-2 with a single and two hit-by-pitch­es. 
Gary Sheflield, ba1:k from oll'snason shouldnr surgery, hit a go-ahead single in a thrnn-run third inning against Wells, and Martinoz l'!~cnivcd two huge ovations in his l'irst. ganw in pinstripes since 2001. 

Sincn Nnw York moved within thrnn outs of swnPp­ing tlw Hnd Sox in the ;\L championship snrios last. Octobor, tho Hml Sox had won 1~ight straight, becom­ing tho first major lnaguP team to ovnl'!~omn a :~-0 postseason defirit, then blowing out St. Louis in llw World Snrins. 
But following an oll:'inason of joy in Now l·:ngland. tho Hod Sox startnd with a thud, pitching poorly, mak­ing a pair of nrrors and los­ing thnir firth straight. sna­son OJWnnr. 
-. 

hnalnd, but sincn the right-hander needs more work, it was bettnr to put him on the DL to makn room for anothnr pitcher on the activo roster. 
Prior, who said that he understands the Cubs' move even if' hn doesn't like it, will be activated and start against San Dingo on April 12, bar­ring any setbacks. 
Sanchez suspended for vio­
lating steroid policy 
ST. PETEHSBUBG, Fla. -Tampa Bay outfielder ;\lox Sanchez was sus­pendnd 10 days for violating basn­ball's new policy on performance­enhancing drugs, the l'irst player publidy identified under the major leagues' tougher mles. 
The suspension begins Monday whnn Tampa Bay opens its season against Toronto, the commissioner's ollico said Sunday. 
Under the new policy that took eiTeet last month, stc~roids and other performance-enhancing substances are the only drugs to draw a 1()-day suspension. Baseball of'lieials and the players' union agrnml tlu•y would not disclose l.lw exact substance for which a playPr tests posiliw. 
Sanchez said lw was surpris1•d by the suspPnsion. adding that lw usPs milkshakns and multivitamins to build his energy -and blaming llw positive tnst on sonwthing hi' bought ovPr the count!~r. 
"I'm going t.o fight it, because l'w never taken stnroids or anything like that. ... 1 n1wcr take any steroids because I don't ruwd tlwm," said Sanelwz. who was r1dPased by Detroit in mid-March and sigrwd by the l>nvil Hays. 
Sandwz, 28, who hit .:~22 with I1) stol1m bases in 79 games for tlw Tigers last season, said he was drug tested while lw was with l>ntroil.. lin was to be the Devil Bays' eontnr fieldPr on opening day. 
Devil Hays gennral managPr Chuck LaMar said the team would have no eomnwnt on the suspPnsion. 
"It's surprising," manager Lou Piniclla said. "That's all I have to say on that." 
page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS Monday, April 4, 2005 
MEN'S lACROSSE 

Irish fall to Darbnouth 10-9 in second one-goal loss of year 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Notre Dame fell 10-9 at Dartmouth Saturday, tallying its second one-goal defeat of the season. 
"I feel like we didn't play particularly well," Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. "I was disappointed in the way we played and I take full responsi­bility for it. I don't think I had us as prepared as we needed to be." 
Dartmouth led 8-7 at the beginning of the fourth quarter but Notre Dame tied the mateh when attack Pat Walsh tossed in a goal with 7:11 left in the contest. · 
The Big Green answered back quickly with two goals in the final three minutes to cement the win. Midfielder Ben Grinnell weavfld his way through the Irish defense and scored with 2:54 remaining. His teammate, midfielder Alec Hufnagle, notched the winning goal 1:27 later. 
The Irish mounted a come­back with freshman midfielder Michael Podgajny scoring with 19 seconds remaining, but the final seconds ticked away before Notre Dame could score again. 
"The most encouraging thing of the day is that we gave our­selves a chance to win the game," Corrigan said. "We did that without playing well and that is a good sign for a team." 
Walsh, currently second in the NCAA in scoring, continued his hot streak by netting two goals and one assist. The Great Western Lacrosse League play­er of the week has totaled at least three points in every game this year. 
Notre Dame took the early lead with two Matt Ryan goals in the first eight minutes of the game. Dartmouth then tied the contest with two goals of their own coming at the 2:51 and 
1:50 mark of the first quarter. The victory was Dartmouth's first ever over Notre Dame. 
With their only two losses this seasons coming by a com­bined two goals, Corrigan believes Notre Dame might be better than its reeord indicates. 
"I think we have tremendous potential," Corrigan said. "I've seen some great signs from this team throughout the sea­son in terms of their approach to things. At the same time, the important thing is, are we 
BASEBALL 
Rutgers doubleheader postponed until today 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Senior Staff Writer 
Inclement weather condi­tions in New Jersey forced the postponement of Notre Dame's scheduled double­header aga,inst Rutgers Sunday. 
The teams will attempt to make up the two games today at Frank Eck Stadium in a qoubleheader that starts at 11 a.m. 
In accordance with Big East policy, the length of today's doubleheader will be limited because of Notre Dame's trav­el schedule -no inning will

.­
be allowed to start after 4:30 p.m. 
Junior Tom Thornton and sophomore Jeff Samardzija ar() the probably starting pitchers for Notre Dame, while Hutgers is expected to send O.J. DeChristofano and Aaron Kalb to the mound. 
Notre Dame (13-10, 3-1 in the Big East) hopes to contin­ue its season-long four-game winning streak against the Scarlet Knights (13-9, 3-1). The Irish have outscored their opponents 36-11 over that four-game span. 
The Irish will remain at home to face Toledo Tuesday. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 
r---------------;-------------------~

I ..['-'U May 15th 4pm-10pm 1 : Restaurant No Reservations Please : 
I I 
1tf'irst Origina( Pizza in Town! : 
. I 
Sn1ce 1951 : 
Specializing in Italian Entrees Tues. -Thurs.: 5:00PM-ll:OOPM Fri. -Sat.: 5:00PM-1:00AM 

Ci37 North St. Louis South Bend, IN 574-233-2464 
Cut out this coupon for $2.00 off any pizza. Dine-in only. Expires 3/31/2005 
-----------------------------------· 


learning the lessons we need to be learning as we go through, both from the wins and the losses." 
Dartmouth fired 51 shots on goal compared to Notre Dame's 32, but Irish freshman goalie Joey Kemp made 23 saves to keep his team within reach. 
"Joey was terrific," Corrigan said. "I honestly think Joey was the reason we had a chance to win at the end. He was out­standing all day. I think he's proving to be just a tremen­dous talent in the cage." 
Notrfl Dame is currently in a position to determine its NCAA Tournament fate. The Irish need to win their remaining· four regular-season games (Denver, Air Force, at Fairfield, at Ohio State) to win the con­ference and automatically qualify for the NCAA Tournament. 
"If we win our next four we're going to win our IPague and go to the tournament," Corrigan said. "That's what we need to be focused on now and I think we're going to need all the experience that we've gained throughout the season." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

MEN's NCAA TouRNAMENT 
Illini hope to finish No. 1 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -The best team in the country all season is an underdog today. By now, Illinois is used to it. 
Even though they've only lost once, have tied the NCAA record for wins and have been ranked No. 1 in the country since December, the Illini (37-1) have had trouble getting their due much of the season. 
Never has that been more true than in the buildup to Monday night's championship game, when the Illini face North Carolina (32-4) in a matchup being billed as Team vs. Talent. 
Illinois is the "Team. North Carolina has the "Talent." The Illini say they don't take offense to the comparison. 
Often during their interviews Sunday, though, they found themselves defending the way they're perceived -as the unsung group of guys who "play the game the right way," comparPd to Carolina's group of stars. 
"We have NBA people at our games every time," Illini coach Bruce Weber said. "We're going to have some guys drafted, whether it's this year or next year. But we don't have quite the names, I guess, and athletic guys that maybe they have." 
The reason the Tar Heels get the edge starts with Sean May, the 6-foot-9 center who aver­ages 17.1 points and 10.9 rebounds this season. North Carolina also has Hashad McCants, Jawad Williams and Haymond Felton. They'll all go to the NBA soon, as will the sixth man, freshman forward Marvin Williams. 
"They'll have a lottery pick coming ofT their bench," Illinois forward James Augustine said. "They're obviously more talent­ed. But when it comes down to the situation, it's who's the bet­ter team" that will win. 
Nobody has won more than fllinois-ever. With their 72-57 victory over Louisville in the semifinals, the Illini matched Duke (1986, 1989) and UNLV (1987) for the most wins in a single season. 
Like the Tar Heels, the Illini have stars and NBA talent, starting with guard Deroo Williams, a tenacious defender and super ballhandler who may have played himself into the NBA lottery, as well. 

On CAmpus Qt:AifUAtlOO l1/Jeekeotf ,SpeeiAl tl!JA!I 12-16, 200J 
Nee~ Cl pLC!ce foY !jOur fC!~tL!j to s.ttt!j, TY!j tl.-te StlCYe~ Htttrt 'PttYLSI.-1 CtV'\-ttY ["SutL~tV\.0 31.. 01'" 1_1_g5 OV'\-!jOUI" ctt~-pus ~CI-ps.] 
we set Cl -t9o.oo -peY -persoV'\-oloV'\-tttf..oV'\-for-tl.-te week?.ell\.0!. 
((COM6 6ARLY [Thurs.oltltj] -STAY LAU [Moiii.OICI!j]"-s.tt~e ~of..'l..tltf..oV'\-. 
For res.ewtttf..oV'\-S -pLeCise cC!LL: 'PttuL 6ololtj Cit .57-4--G31.-_T512 OY Mtlr!j rOV'\-feYI\?.0 /At .57-4--G31.::J-43G 

Monday, April 4, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
NO WOMEN'S TRACK AND FIELD MEN'S TENNIS 

Team qualifies 7 for Big East finals 
Hy RYAN KIEFER 
Spun' Wri1rr 
l>nspitn what thn rnsults may say, t.hn higgost winner this 
WPI'kl'rHI  at  tlw  l'onhlnin  
Invitational  was  Mother  
NaturP.  

/\thlntns battlnd 20 to :m mile pnr hour winds Sat11rday at l'urdrw UnivPrsity and worn l'orend to snttln for slow tirnos on tlrP trark and short dis­t.anens in llw finld nvtmts. 
In spitn of tlw conditions, the womnn 's t.nam Plllt'rgnd with four vidorins and snvnn Big l·:ast orous wonknnd at Stanf(wd and ran in the 1,!iOO meters as a training exercise. This allowed llw Irish to dominate this nvent scoring six of the top nino placns, induding the top three. Moaglwr was followed by Stnphanif! Madia and Elizabnth Wnbstnr to eom pinto thn 1-2-3 finish. Coaeh Connolly was plnasnd by the results, but wasn't worried about his team's timns this wonk. 
"Everything was slow beeauso of thn conditions. The kids knnw this and just ran to win raees. I was proud of their 
ofl'ort," Conm~lly 
said. 

qualilkations. Knrry Mnaghnr won tlw I ,!iOO  "! was proud (~{ their ~!Jort. "  The 4-by-1 00 relay team of Brinnnn Davis,  
mntnrs in lwr lirst  Maryann  
rar11  siru~P  tlw  Tim Connelly  Iirigha,  
cross-rountry  Irish coach  Domenique  

snason and quali­find for t.hl' Big l·:asl IIWPt. l.aurnn King dupli­ratPd MPaglwr's pnrfornuuH~P in t.hl' !i,OOO nwtnrs, winning in hnr lirst attmnpt of Urn traek snason, and qualifying for con­
f(•rnru~n. 
King dominatnd the mrnpnti­tion, winning by over II{ see­onds. Tlw rt!turn of King and Mnaglwr to tho distaneo toarn solidil'it1S an alroady strong portion of thn Irish's squad. Coaeh Tim Connelly was ploasnd to havn two of his vet­omns back in thn lineup. 
"ll was gn1at to see Kerry run Wl1ll," Connelly said. "We wantnd to gnt her and Launm on tho traek aftnr thny rnissnd indoor. Lauren was very strong in thn !iK. Wn're going to keep lwr in thn 5,000 for a while bnr.ausn shn's not ready for sp«lPd work ynt. Wo'rn just glad to have thorn both back." 
Notrn Damn's bnst distance runrwrs worn roming oil' a rig-
Manning and 
Okeehi Ogbuokiri also imprnssnd, win­ning in thnir first race tognther. 
"Tiwy got thn stick IbatonI around nkely, and tlmy worknd wnll togntlwr for thn first time out," Connelly said. 
Stacey Cowan won thn high jump, qualifying for the Big East meet in the process. 
Two other high jumpers, Cassin Gullickson and Emily Loomis also earned places in tho Big East meet. 
Davis's time in the 100 meters and Manning's 100­meter hurdle effort rounded out the Big East qualifiers. 
The Irish will have next weeknnd off and will focus their nfforts during the next two weeks on training for the Mt. SAC Helays, traditionally a vory eornpetitivo meet, which begins April 1!i. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 

Irish hobbled by injuries in 5-2 loss 
Squad drops all but one match to No. 46 Southern Methodist 
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
Spons Writer 
Freak injurins lurk in any sports eontnst. biding thnir timn and striking at inopportune moments. This wnPknnd, the Irish saw the injury bug rnar its ugly head. 
Facing a rallying, motivatnd Southnrn Mnthodist team, the Irish men's tennis team strug­gled on Sunday, losing a !i-2 mateh to thn No. 4h Mustangs (11-IJ). No. 29 NotrP Dame (15­
6) dropped all but one singles match as they found themselvns battling minor injurins to sever­al playnrs. 
"I think we learned that you've got to bring it every day," Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. "I think SMU played prob­ably their bnst match of the year -that's what thnir coaeh told mn and I havn no mason to doubt it. It was close enough but we got outfought in a eou­pln rnatehes. If anything, we nend to be more aggrnssive. Wn have to look for offensive opportunities a little bit morn and in at least three or four of the matches, that was the case." 
Despite getting the early 1-0 lead after winning tho doubles point, the Irish had trouble against an aggressive SMU team that attaeked across the board in each singles mateh. But in the first match of dou­bles play, both senior captain Brent D'Amico and junior Eric Langenkamp were hobbled by injuries and the Irish's No. 1 duo dropped an 8-4 decision. "SMU played really well," Bayliss said. "Brent D'Amico has been a little iffy all week with a hamstring [injury!. lie played doubles but late in thn doubles match, it tightened up on him. Erie had a groin pull and Brent had a hamstring injury, so neither of thom was available for singles play." 
Sophomore Hyan Keekloy stnppnd in for the Irish in sin­gles play but faced some injury problems of his own. Although he won the first set, Keekley struggled with severe (Tamps in the second set and dropped both of the last two sets in a 4­6, 6-4, 6-2 decision. 

Tho sole Irish singles victory carne from freshman Sheeva Parbhu, who won a tlu·ee-set match with scores of 6-3, 3-6, 6-4 against SMU's Federico Murginr. 
"[Parbhul continues to show an awful lot of poise for a fresh­man," Bayliss said. "lie won the first, lost the second and won the third. Murgier was very solid ofT the ground but Shenva was a little more aggrnssive. lin was able to dictate and had thn guts to step up and hit some big shots late in tho third." 
The other singles matches went poorly for the Irish, as thn team faced the added pressure of' playing at higher spots across the board. 
Playing at the No. 1 singles 

slot, sophomore Stephen Bass lost a 6-2, 6-3 decision to SMU's Paul McNaughton. Sophomore lraekli Akhvlndiani and junior Patrkk Buchanan also dropped qukk decisions to SMU playnrs, losing 6-3, 6-4 and (>-3, (>-3 at the No. 4 and No. 5 slots, respectively. Playing at tho No. 2 position, sophomore Barry King lost a elose match to Gwinyai Chingoka, :{-6, 6-4, 7­6. 
"Barry King played a coura­geous match but lost 7-(> in the third set," Bayliss said. "Chingoka was relentloss in his ability to mako Barry hit pass­ing shot after passing shot. That's a tough way to win a 
Dept. of Irish Language & Literature Roinn Theanga 7 Litriocht na Gaeilge 


Fall 2005 Course Offerings JRLL 10101 Introduction to Modern Irish I IRLL 10 I02 Introduction to Modern Irish II IRLL 20 I03 Intermediate Irish Language IRLL 20105 Introduction to Old Irish IRLL 30107 The Hidden Ireland: Issues in 18th Cent. Irish Poetry IRLL 60303 Poetry and Politics in Early Modern Ireland 1541-1688 

match because you really havP to play twice as good as thP other guy. Barry playnd as hard as he could play and very courageously hut just didn't have the eonlidnnco to eonw to the rwt, which was thn diiTnr­ence in the match." 
Tlw lone bright spot for tlw Irish was their doubles play in the second and third doublns matr.hes, which wnrn both solid victories. Al'tnr shul'lling tlwir doubles lineup at thn Pnd of March, the Irish an~ sening somn dividends with tlw nnw combinations. 
K1~eklny and King hnat SMU's l'ntnr Orndsson and llnnr·ik SodPrhnrg X-!i al. tlw No. 2 <lou­bins position and Bass and Parhhu bPal tlw duo or Chingoka and David Kw·zor S-4 in the third slol. 
"ll was a big win for third doubles hPc.ausn SMLJ has fairly solid doubles ltnarnsl," Bayliss said. "Tiwy don't giw away any fren points by loading up at tlw No. I or No. 2 spots. Thny haw balanc.nd and solid teams. I think that tlw fad that wn wnrn able to win a match at No. 3 was a rPal plus and hopdully it's something WP can build upon." 
With almost a wPnk until their rwxt match, tlw Irish will rest up before fadng Ball StatP at hornn rwxt Saturday at I p.m. 
Contact Rama Gottumukkala at rgottumu@nd.edu 

page 20 
SMC TENNIS 
Teatn opens year with 9-0 scritntnage victory 
By KATE SERYAK Sports Writer 
On Saturday, younger mem­bers of the Belles tennis team traveled thme hours to Albion, Mich., to scrimmage a team that is usually in the MIM con­ference but wasn't this year due to lack of players. 

I 
The Belles did well. winning all of their singles and doubles matches, 9-0. Although it was only a scrimmage, this match served as a stepping-stone for several of the younger players on the team. 
"Because we lost our top five

I 
I players who were seniors last 
I I year, we have a really young 
I 
I team that needs experience like this to get them ready for future 
~ 
matches," senior Katie Harth en said. 
For several Belles, this was their first time playing in a col­lege match. 
"It was a lot of fun. I got to play with one of my friends in a doubles match which we won and I was really happy about that," freshman Jackie Sias said. 
"There were some really 
close matches, but everybody pulled out a win and did a real­ly good job," sophomore Kelly Barnett said. "The doubles teams worked really well together despite not having much of a chance to practice with each other." 
The Belles are using every opportunity they can this early in the season to get ready for their big matches against con­ference rivals Hope, Kalamazoo and Albion. 
"Those three are our biggest challenges. we always look for­ward to those and take a lot of pride away when we win," Harthen said. "Those are the ones we prepare for the most and look forward to." 
Even though Saturday's match was important, the Belles still enjoyed themselves. 
"It was a good match and we had fun," Harthen said. "We were out there for practice and to have a good time and that's exactly what we did. It was a good practice for us. I think that we're doing well so far and that we're looking really good." 
Contact Kate Seryak at kseryak@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 
Belles best of 13 teams at Ohio tournatnent 


By THOMAS BARR Sports Writer 
The Belles rang in the new season with a tournament victo­ry. 
The team took first place in the Capital University 2005 Purple and White Golf Invitational in Foxfire, Ohio, this Friday and Saturday. 
The Belles won the 13-team tournament. shooting a course record 357. They edged out the Ohio Northern squad by three strokes in the tournament. 
"Its good anytime you win, to beat 13 teams. but we definitely didn't play up to our potential," Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. "It was tough weather on a tough course, but in the end we played better than the other teams, and that is what matters." 
The inclement weather that shortened the tournament to only 18 holes did not prevent several Belles from having impressive individual perform­ances. 
Senior Steffanie Simmerman tied for overall lowest score with 83 strokes. which was also the club course record. Fellow senior Julia Adams finished second with an84. 
While two other Belles, captain Chrissy Dunham and Megan Mattia, rounded out the top 20, the team was not satisfied. 
"We had two really great per­formances by Simmerman and Adams, but I know some of the other girls were disappointed with their performances." Hamilton said. 
The Belles are preparing to play in the Tri-State University Invitational Tournament this Saturday at 10 a.m. in Angola, Indiana. The team has been working hard to fix weaknesses and maintain strengths that were evident at Foxfire. 
"Our ball striking has been solid," Hamilton said. "Weather has hindered us from getting out on the course to practice. This affects mental preparedness and our short game. " 
Contact Thomas Barr at tbacc@nd.edu 
Monday, April 4, 2005 

The Observer + SPORTS 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Current and future Irish shine 
Batteast and Schrader both perform well in Indy all-star games 
By JOE HETTLER Senior StaffWriter 
Notre Dame's departing star and its incoming one both performed well in the Women's Basketball Coaches Association Night of All-Stars Saturday at Indianapolis. 
Senior Jacqueline Batteast. who finished her career as Notre Dame's fourth all-time leading scorer, had 11 points, five rebounds and three steals in 29 minutes of the All-Star Challenge. 
The game featured 20 of college basketball's best sen­ior players. 
Lindsay Schrader, who will arrive at Notre Dame in the fall, tallied 10 points in 22 minutes of the High School All-America Game. She drained a key 3-pointer in the second half before her Red team eventually lost to the White team 92-88. 
Students Fly Cheaper 
summer travel, study abroad & more 
Sample airfares from South Bend:  Sample airfares from Chicago:  
Wash., D.C  $124  Montreal  $191  
Boston  $168  Mexico City  $241  
Dallas  $168  London  $333  
Los Angeles  $233  Rome  $359  



Schrader was recently named Miss Basketball in Illinois and is the fourth incoming Notre Dame fresh­
man to play in the WBCi\ game. 
Alicia Ratay. Katy Flecky and current Irish junior Courtney LaVere also partici­
. pated in the exhibition. 
The Bartlett, Ill. product played in the 2005 McDonald's All-A)llerican game March 30 at tlH' Joyce Center. She averaged 21 points, 10 n~bounds and thn•e steals during her high school career and was a thrne-timP all-state selection. 
Schrader will be one of tlw players trying to help replace the graduating Batteast. The South Bend native was recently named one of 10 members of the Kodak All­American squad. She became just the second Irish player to ever earn such an honor. Ruth Riley was named to the team in 2001. 
The Big East coaches tabbed Batteast as the conference's player of the year this season after the senior posted 16.9 points and 6.6 rebounds per game. 
Contact Joe Hettler at jhetder@nd.edu 
Three-month full-time certificate program for four-year college graduates. 
For Additional Information: Paralegal Program Office 303 E. Broad Street Columbus, Ohio 4321 5 Phone: 614-236-6885 E-mail: paralegal@law.capital.edu 
Information also available on our part-time Paralegal and Legal Nurse Consultant Programs. 
~;:,TABLISHED i90J
-----·----­
CAPITAL 
UNIVERSIIY 
LAW SCHOOL 
Celebrating 100 Years ifLeadership 

Premier Provider of Paralegal Education For Over a Quarter of a Century 
Monday, April 4, 2B05 The Ob$erver + SPORTS page 21 
MEN'S TRACK 
NO WoMEN's TENNIS 

Tea111 bounces back,
Irish compete at Purdue 

NO athletes take five titles, including pole vault, 800 meters 
By JOHN EVERETT 
Sports Writl'r 
Thn Irish travnlnd to West l.af'aynttn, Indiana this past WIHlknnd to eompete in the Mike 1'1whl11in Invitational on the eampus of Purdue Univnrsity. 
Thn Fighting Irish won live nvnnts on Saturday, four of them individual evnnts and o1w was a relay vietory. 
Snlim Nurudnen far out­paced thn field in the 110­mntnr high hurdles. 
Nurudnnn ran the race in 
13.96 seconds, not his fastest time this year -his fastest time was 13.92 seconds last wonk at the Dr. Pepper Invitational -but consistent­ly strong, which nncourages optimism for the rest of the season. Irish hurdler Geoffrey Bennett also qualified for the Big East in the 11 0-meter hurd Ins. 
Adam Currie led a strong Irish nfl'ort in the ROO-nwters. Currin won the event in 1 Ill in U til, 54.2 2 SflCI)JldS, a mark which is just .51'1 sec­onds shy of the Big East qual­ifying standard. 
This was Currie's first per­formance of the 2005 outdoor season. Following Currie in thn HOO for Notre Damn wern Erie Morrison in third at I:54.1'14 and Brett Adams in fifth at I:51'1.15. 
Two of Notre Dame's victo­rins camn in the finld, with David Viken claiming thn pole vault titln and Derek Goguen outdistancing his competitors in tho javelin. 
Viken's vault of 4.75 meters and (;ogunn's throw of 55.06 mntnrs were both good nnough to qualify for the Big East Championships. 
Notrn Dame field athletes also achieved several Big East qualifying marks in the ham­mer throw, as Chip Hoberts, 
crushes LOng Beach 

Irish win five 1natches 
en route to blowout 
victory over 49ers 
By DAN TAPETILLO Sports Writer 
After falling to Wiseonsin 4-:~ last week, Notre Dame (IJ-8) was not just hoping to rebound from the loss with this weekend's mateh versus Long Beach State. The Irish were also looking to restorn their confidence hoading into the final stretch of the season. 
Notre Dame topped the 41Jers 5­2 Saturday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, but is just beginning what the team expeets to aeeom­plish by the season's end. 
"[This match] was extremely important after losing to Wisconsin," junior Lauren Connelly said. "We went into this match as it was the first of the season so we could get a fresh start and gain momentum and confidence for the next several matches." 
The Irish began the contest with 
an impressive sweep in the dou­

BETH WEANET/The Observer 
bles matches. 

Irish distance runner Kurt Bennlger runs In the Meyo 
First off the court was the No. 2

lnvlatlonal Feb. 5. The Irish competed at the Poehleln 
doubles team in the nation of

lnvlatlonal at Purdue Saturday, winning five events. 
r------------------• 
25%0FF 
REGULAR PRICE 
PACKAGES AND LOTIONS FOR STUQENTS WITH VA~IO 10.
. . . ~ : (;.;:, ·. .... :.· .. ::,:·:,.~, .. ·., 
'<,,!f;r';C'"Nb'eE:e VIIID £'0.1...'\.0'\1\.% 
:-·:::~«;;!'nrvu bH'c~ 
·2~~· C:~l. ~ 
I I I I 
1~1111 Ta111 I 
I I
IT'S MORE FUN IN THE DARK. 
I 

.. ______ _ 
______ ..I
Expires 4/30/05 
Kyle Annen, Garrett Koxlein and Kevin Moffett all quali­fied. 
Many field competitors at the meet were adversely affected by the strong 30 mile-per-hour winds at the site of the event. However, Viken was very pleased with how the Irish responded to the challenge. 
"The wind was really a problem for a lot of the peo­ple who competed; they even had a hard time keeping the crossbar up for the pole vault," Viken said. "J·was really pumped because 15'7" is a [personal record] on the season for me. I think all of the field athletes did as well as they could under the con-

sophomore twins Christian and Catrina Thompson, playing at No. ditions. " 
1 for the Irish. The Thompson's The Irish relay victory came 
defeated the 49ers' team of Nkole in the 4-by-100 meter relay. 
Bouffier and Sandra Rocha 8-1. Nurudeen, Zach Labrecque, 
They were followed by the Christopher Jacques and 
Irish's No. 3 team of senior eap­Tommie Lee combined to run 
tain Sarah Jane Connnlly and jun­the relay in 42.79 seconds. 
ior Kiki Stastny. Connelly and Jacques and Lee also quali­
Stastny topped Stephanie Bengson fied for the Big East in the 
and Krystina Katayama 8-3. 100 meters. 
The final team to walk ofT the The Irish have no meet this 
courts was the No. 2 Irish team of coming weekend. 
freshman Brook Buck and Lauren Their next meets will be 
Connelly. They handed the 41Jers' April 15-17 when the team 
Alanah Carroll and Haehael Porsz will send athletes to both the 
an 8-4 defeat. Mt. San Antonio College 
Coach Jay Louderbaek said the Helays in Walnut, Calif., and 
team's impressive performanee in the Indy Relays in 
doubles was crueial to their later Indianapolis. 
success in singles. "We played well in the doubles Contact John Everett at 
matches and some of the momen­jeverett@nd.edu 
tum carried into the singles 

matdws for us," Irish c.oaeh .Jay  
Loudnrbaek said.  
Thn first of four singlns wins  
eame from Laurnn Connolly at tho  
No. 3 position by topping Long  
Beach's Hocha (,-4, 6-3. This is  
hnr third out of four makhns sinco  
moving up to thn No. 3 position fhr  
thn team.  
Tim second win eamn from and  
No. 44 ranknd Catrina Thompson  
at No. 1. Shn delimtnd Boufllnr 7­ 
5,6-3.  
But it was the vietory from Sarah Jane Connolly at No. 5 that seeured thn victory for the Irish. Connelly beat Carroll 6-2, 7-5 at No. 5. Louderback had only words of praise for thf1 snnior captain. "I was really imprnssnd with all of the matches, but ~~spneially with  ·l l j l j l  
Sarah .Jane's [pnrf'ormance[,"  
Louderback said. "Shn had to  
come back in the sneond set to  
clinch the mateh for us and shn  
did it while staying calm."  
The final win came from Liz  
Donohue at the No. 6 position.  
Donohue topped Claudia  
Argumedo 6-2, 1-6, 6-2. This vie­ 
tory is her third straight, improv­ 
ing her record to 17-12 on tho  
season.  
The two losses earne from  
Stastny at No. 4 and No. 100 Buck  
at No. 2. Stastny fi:lll to Porsz 3-6,  
7-5, 1-0 (1 0-8), while Buck  
droppnd the match to Bnnbrson (,­ 
4, 0-6, 6-2. Louderba1:k said the  
victory over Long Beach Statn wa.'i  
a confidence-boostnr li1r thn Irish.  
"This win was so important  
beeause Long Bnach was a tnam  
that fought hard. It was also  
important for us mentally bnmusn  
we have won so many doublns  
points and couldn't come up with  
throe singles points," Louderback  
said. ·  
Laurnn Connelly attributes thn  
win to the team's mnntality during  
practice.  
"This week in practice we  
tried to be positive bncausn we  
could have easily of bnen nnga­ 
tive after the loss to Wisconsin,"  
she said. "But everyone has  
practiced hard and it shownd  
today."  
Contact Dan Tapetillo at  
jtapetil@nd.edu  

NO WOMEN'S SOFTBALL 
Shovvers wash out eastern road trip 
By JUSTIN SCHUVER Senior Staff Writer 
'April showers have put a damper on Notre Dame's Big East season so far this year. 
The Irish were scheduled to participate in road double­headers against Rutgers Saturday and Villanova Sunday, but inclement weather in the northeast United States forced the postponement of' both series. 
Notre Dame is scheduled to make up its games against 
Villanova today, with starts at 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. 
The doubleheader against Rutgers has not yet been rescheduled.Because the team will remain on the road Monday to make up the games against the Wildcats, 
Notre Dame's doubleheader against Eastern Michigan Tuesday has been pushed baek from 3 pm. to 4 p.m. 
Thursday night, Notre Dame defeated Loyola-Chicago on the road 1 0-0, pounding out a sea­son-high 16 hits in the contest. With their win over Loyola, the 

Irish extended their winning streak to six games. 
Starting pitcher Ileather Booth came up one out short in her bid to pitch the seeond no­hitter of her career, allowing a hit to Loyola's Trieia Oberhaus with one out left in the bottom of the seventh inning. 
Senior Megan Ciolli paeed the offense with three hits, two HBI and three runs. Sophomore Stephanie Brown had three hits and an HBI. 
Contact Justin Schuver at jschuver@nd.edu 

Write Sports. Calll-4543 

lj;· · .• 
!I. I 
Monday, April 4, 2005 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 



Augusta 
continued from page 24 
lOth, Gustafson was still at three-under after 14 holes. 
Despite a double bogey on the 15th hole and a bogey on the 16th, Gustafson finished the round at even par, the fourth-best score for the third round. He finished the tourna­ment in a tie for 38th individ­
ually, good for third on  the  
team.  
Before  Gustafson's  big  

round, Cole Isban and Mark Baldwin had carried the Irish for the first two rounds. 
Isban and Baldwin shot matching 75's in the morning round Sunday, and Isban had a four-over 76 to begin the tournament. Those two rounds left Isban in a tie for sixth and Baldwin tied for 14th after two rounds. 
"We had high expectations, myself and for the team," Isban said. 
We knew that this was a top-notch field with a lot of top 25 teams here and we were excited." 
Isban had the best individ­tunity to play these [top] ual total for the Irish at 228 teams," he said. "We feel that 
-(12-over par), good for a tie we can play with anyone in for 14th while Baldwin tied for the country now." 25th overall with a 17-over That confidence will be piv­233, second on the team. otal for the Irish in the 
"I had a couple stretches of upcoming weeks. bogeys and doubles that really First, they tee off in the hurt my position," lsban said. Texas A&M Invitational Apr. "But fortu-16-17, with a nately I was field just as 
able to come "This definately gives us tough as this 
back with week's. 
a little momentum and a
two or three Then, it's 
birdies each little more confidence. back home to round that at We've got another big Warren for least held the Big East
event coming ... and we 
me in there." Championship 
For the know we can play well. , Apr. 23-24. 
team,  this  For now, the  
was a big confidence booster.  Scott Gustafson Irish golfer  Irish are happy with what they've  

Lacrosse 
continued from page 24 
midfielder Lena Zentgrars first col1egiate hat trick. 
The pivotal conference week­end began on a rather optimistic note for the Irish. 
In search of its first Big East victory, Notre Dame charged out of the gates, netting a 2-0 advan­tage on a pair of goals by Foote and Jackie Bowers, respectively, in the contest's first 2:07. 
While Connecticut was able to secure a 3-2 lead over the next eight minutes with three consec­utive goals, the Irish immediate­ly responded, ta11ying three con­secutive goals of their own to regain a two-goal advantage at 5-3 with just over 12 minutes remaining before the break. 
After trading goals a pair of goal with the Huskies, however, Notre Dame's wheels began to fa11 off as Connecticut rallied off seven straight goals -four before halftime -and nine of the next 10 en route to a domi­nant 13-7 lead 11:53 into the 11rst half.The Irish refused to give in, scoring the game's final three goals, but it was a case of too little too late as Notre Dame squandered Foote's four-goal performance and fell to 0-2 in the Big East. 
In dire need of a victory, the Irish reversed Friday night's for­tunes as they rode hat tricks from both Zentgraf and Foote to a crucial 12-9 victory over Rutgers Sunday.Midfielders Caitlin McKinney and Brittany Fox each chipped in with a pair 
San Diego 
continued from page 24 
Dame battled neck and neck with Oregon State and Texas. 
With only 20 strokes left to go, the Notre Dame women trailed both opposing crews. In a testament to conditioning and gut effort the women dug deep and passed Texas to place seconds in the Petite
'-­
race, a little more than a half second behind first-place OSU. The finish placed the crew in eighth overall for the Jessop­Whittier Cup. 
"I wasn't disappointed in the of goals while Bowers and attack Mary McGrath also found their way onto the score sheet with single tallies. 

Focused on preventing the slow starts that has put the team in an unconquerable hole time and time again this season, the Irish refused to allow the visiting Scarlet Knights to run away and hide. 
Weathering a quick Scarlet Knight burst that staked Rutgers to an early 3-1 advantage after 
4:26 of play, the Irish went to work. 
Foote picked up her first goal of the game at the 7:27 mark with Bowers and Zentgraf fol­lowing suit. 
The Irish lead increased to 5-3 on Zentgraf's third goal of the afternoon before Rutgers found the back of the net to bring the Scarlet Knights within one at 5­4. 
crew's effort; I was just disap­pointed in the results," Irish coach Martin Stone said. "The effort was definitely there. We were facing three crews that will most likely be in the NCAAs." 
The second varsity eight crew completed the weekend ninth-overall after a fourth­place fmish in the junior varsi­ty B heat followed by finishing third in the Petite race. 
The novice eight crew had a similarly successful Petite heat, finishing in first, beating out second place Southern California by six seconds. The novices garnered seventh overall in the Novice races. 

"The second varsity eight and novice eight are growing better and getting faster," Stone said. 
The Crew Classic, along with most major spring season regattas, has serious implica­tions regarding the end of the year NCAA Championships. 
Stone is undaunted by the results of this weekend. 
"Our chances to make the NCAAs would have been helped had we made the finals [of the Jessop-Whittier Cup], but by no means are they gone," he said. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
Brophy, who shot a par 154, good enough for third place
Indiana 

overall; senior Karen Lotta, 
continued from page 24 who finished 11th with a 157; sophomore Stacy Brown, who shot a 163; and junior Sarah
next week in the Lady Bassett, who finished withBoilermaker Invitational in 

173.
West Lafayette, although she Grand Valley State placedmight have to rest during the three golfers in the top 10, butweek. 

their leader, Merissa Sneller,"She's just going to have to 
finished onedoctor it a little shot behind
bit," King said. 

"/ was proud that Brophy and
Notre Dame was 
nine shots

a heavy favorite we went out and 
behind

going into the tour­proved why we 
Nakazaki.
nament, but King 

were the favorite., Minnesota
said the win was shot a 634 to
still valuable head­place third, one

ing into tougher Debby King 
shot ahead of

competition in the Irish head coach 
fourth place
weeks to come. 
Ohio. Toledo,
"You still have to 

led by Storck, finished tied
stay tough mentally," she said. 

with Marshall for fifth. 
"I was proud that we went out 
Wisconsin, Illinois, Iowa,
and proved why we were the Arkansas-Little Rock, Indiana,

favorite. Purdue and Ohio 

St. John's, Xavier, Ferris State,
State are very tough fields. 

Ball State, Bowling Green,
We'll need the experience." 

Indianapolis and IPFW round­The Irish shot a 20-over-par ed out the field.
620 as a team to beat out sec­ond place Grand Valley State by nine strokes. Scoring for Contact Chris Khorey at the Irish were junior Katie ckhorey@nd.edu 
• 

The Badin Art Show 
Aprill5-17 
Call for entries!! 
Cash prizes awarded lst place: $75 2nd place:$50 3rd place: $25 
• 

Open to all students All media accepted 
Entries due April13 
• Show Opening at 7pm Friday, April 15 
Prizes awarded at 7:30pm 

Interested'! Contact <Kelly.A.Crecelius.l@nd.edu> 
• 

Watch for further information coming soon in the Dining Halls 
• 


_ Foote once again sparked an Irish raUy, beating Rutgers goalie Lyndsey Feldman for her second goal and the first of five consecu­tive Notre Dame scores. Leading 7-4 at half time, the Irish lead would eventually grow to seven at 12-5 before the Scarlet Knights used a late four­goal rally to make the score respectable by the contest's final whistle. Foote believes the big confer­ence victory will only make the Irish more dangerous as they head down the stretch. After taking the week off, Notre Dame will finish out a five­game home stand against a cou­ple of non-conference opponents when No. 5 Duke (8-2) and Stanford (6-4) come to town Friday and Sunday, respectively. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 
"This defi­nitely gives us a little bit of momentum and a little more confidence," Gustafson said. "We've got another big event coming up in Texas A&M with a similar field, and we know we can play well." 
Isban echoed Gustafson's sentiments. "We love getting this oppor­
done this 

week and will use it as a platform for future tournaments. 
"This week was great for us," Isban said, "to see how far we have come and yet have so much more we could do." 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 
Monday, April 4, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

DILBERT 
I NEED A NICK­NAME TO CREATE THE ILLUSION OF COMPETENCE. 
I 

PEANUTS 
I WAS THINKING ALONG THE LINES OF "THE WIZARD" OR"INFO-GURU." 
I 

SCOTT ADAMS 
I'VE Nt.VER WANTED TO PUNCH YOU MORE THAN AT THIS VERY MOMENT. 
\ 
CHARLES SCHULZ 

JUMBLE 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
BEPOR 

rJ 
1 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
[~~ftJ 
~ BULJEM j
J r
1 
www.jumble.com 
IGOBUTHj
rxx 
1 1 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
.,.{):1 0 ;......---t


:~';,oo~
~!.!.PV: . . ~~ 
(';/'­

~~~~ 
~.@©f,~-.. 
;_. \ They put on a good show 
" Wow! That's -1PJl
somecrash ..

* ____-) . \ 
WHAT TI-lE: DR.IVE:R.S DID IN TI-le: DE:MO­L...ITION DERBY. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
Ans: 

A ·1 I I I J-ITJ" rI I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Saturday's I Jumbles: BASSO TRAIT INCOME ADAGIO Answer: The exotic dancer quit because her paycheck was-TOO "MODEST' 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30_ Parks, former "Miss

1 French cleric America" host 
5 Enthusiasm 33 Two under par9 Slightly open 34 Man's nickname 
13 "Time_,. 
that's an 

1990's sci-fi TV alphabetic run series 35 W.C., in14 1950's Englandcandidate 36 56-Across figure
Stevenson 16 Art 
38 Metal in rocks 

17 56-Across figure 39 Popular card 
game19 Bushy do 40 When some TV20 Birds' homes 

news comes on 21 Stabbed 
41 Change for a 23 Job application five attachments 
42 Superman's 24 "Bird on " symbol 1990 Mel 
43 Brings into play

Gibson movie 44 Singer Sumac
25 Carrier to Sweden 46 Faux pas 
26 Before: Abbr. 48 Fierce one 
21 Necessary: 52 Vance of "I Love Abbr. Lucy" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

54 Place to buy a yacht 55 Mimicked 56 S. Dakota monument 58 of Man 59 Happening 
so Johnson who said "Ver-r-r-y interesting!" 
61 Loads 
62 Puts in extra 
63 Spick and span 
DOWN 1 Battling 2 Indian who may 
be 1-Down 3 Foundation 4 Tire out 5 Cutups 6 A sphere lacks 
them 7 Computer keys: Abbr. a Neighbor of a Vietnamese 9 Firefighter Red 
10 56-Across figure 
11 Farm unit 
12 Crucifix 
15 Place to dip an 
old pen 18 "_ Ia Douce," 1963 film 22 Actor David of "Separate 
Tables" 
24 Laser gas 
26 Walks outside 
the delivery 
room? 

WILLSHORTZ 

28 To be, in France  41 One who rows,  49 Taking out the  
29 Opposite of an ans.  rows, rows the boat  trash, for one 50 Heart line  
30 Ocean-colored 31 Millions of years  44 Breadmakers' needs  51 Chirp 52 Colorado resort  
32 56-Across figure  45 Algebra or trig  53  facto  
33 Set foot in  47 Disney World  54 Partner of born  
36 Mrs. Bush  attractions  57 Dam project:  
37 "My treat!"  48 Headed (for)  Abbr.  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, ny1imes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: ny1imes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: ny1imes.com/Iearning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Amanda Bynes, 19; Eddie Murphy, 44; Alec Baldwin, 47; Marsha Mason, 63 
Happy Birthday: You will know instinctively what is necessary and should proceed quickly and without hesitation. Set your parameters and follow through with a creative project or concept that you have. Now is the time to expand your horizons and to try new things. Your numhers arc 6, 14, 29, 37. 43,45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Everything is going your way today, so do your thing. Your ahility to take on a creative project will show everyone around you how talented you really arc. Your d1ann will he irresistihlc, and a little romance should he scheduled for late in the day. **** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Personal prohlems will escalate if you try to solve them right now. Relax and do something that you enjoy doing hy yourself. Someone you care ahout may he a worry. hut there won't he much that you can do to ht'lp this person. ~~e* GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You really should he taking a day trip or checking nut a cultural event that interests you. You will meet some interesting people through the activities you participate in. You'll he in a romantic mood, so spend time with someone you really care for. ***** CANCER (June 21-,July 22): Don't get down or let anyone cause you grief today. Make whatever changes arc necessary for you to feel comfortahlc in your own surroundings. Do things that interest you and li1rget ahout the things that frustrak• you. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Entertaining friends or getting out socially will enahle you to huild greater friendships and even serious partnerships with people who have .•imilar interests. Romance is in a high cycle, so don't forget to pencil in time with that special someone. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't hother flitting from one thing to another. If you have to force yourself or someone else to do something, the end result will not he worth it. Relax and consider what you can do to make some positive personal changes. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can easily gruh the attention of friends, relatives or even that special someone today. You will be highly creative, so don't hesitate to develop something you've heen thinking about trying or doing. ••••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Ready yourself for something that is important to you. Make alterations to your diet or lifestyle to ensure you arc headed in a healthy direction. If you have a pet, take time out to do something special together. •• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You arc in need of some excitement. Plan an adventure-packed day and invite someone with whom you enjoy spending time. A little love and romance should be your intent. •••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Not too much will go as planned today. Don't set your expectations too high. The more independent you are, the heuer. Consider what changes you should be making in the not-too-distant future. ••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feh. 18): You will he raring to get involved in whatever is going on around you. You will he excited ah<mt the prospects of getting together with someone who intrigues you. Romance is in the picture, so don't hold back. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can get a lot done today if you put your mind to it. Change may be required to get your home in order. Taking care of your personal paperwork will lead to some found money. Financial gains are looking good. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are inventive, imaginative and ready to take on whatever comes your way. You are courageous, and you always look at the hig picture so that you follow the right path and take proper action. You arc respected, admired and envied. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.com for fun, ell/lenialast.com for confidential consultations 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ______________________________________~---­
Address ________________________________________ 
City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, April 4, 2005 
page 24 

MEN'S GOLF 

Irish defeat five ranked opponents 
Gustafson leads Notre Dame to sixth place finish in field with 10 top-25 teams 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Against one of the toughest fields they have ever faced in a regular-season tournament, the Irish captured a tie for sixth, besting five top-25 teams and tying another in the Augusta State Invitational this weekend. 
Despite finishing 29 shots behind host school and champions Augusta State, Notre Dame achieved essentially every expectation the team had coming into the weekend. 
While the Irish "didn't play our best," junior Scott Gustafson said, "we still beat a Jot of top­15 teams." 
For a team ranked in the 60s nationally, that's saying something. 
After shooting consecutive 31 Os on the hilly Forest llill Golf Club in windy conditions Saturday and Sunday, Notre Dame had its best team round on Sunday. 
Gustafson Jed the Irish in the final round with a stellar round of even-par 72. lie rallied from a Saturday 82 and Sunday-morning 81 to post the sixth-lowest round of the tournament Sunday afternoon. 
"I was kind of down on myself after finishing that second round of play," he said. "I was look­ing for any kind of momentum I could get." 
lie found it immediately. 
With the shotgun start Sunday afternoon, Gustafson teed off on the par-five sixth, and got the round off to a fast start with a birdie four. Three holes later, he birdied the par-live ninth. Then, on his ninth hole of the afternoon, he made birdie three to reach three-under at the halfway point. 
After rebounding with a birdie on the 11th and making two consecutive pars after bogeying the 
see AUGUSTA/page 22 


WOMEN'S CREW 
Tean1 has 
• 
success 1n San Diego 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
The boats of the Irish plied the waters of Mission Bay, San Diego this weekend at the Crew Classic with the best women's crew teams the country has to offer. 
The results were mixed, with no overall top-3 finishes pres­ent, but the experience and chance to work together in actual competition will gain dividends later on in the sea­son. 
The first varsity eight crew competed in the prestigious Jessop-Whittier Cup on Saturday afternoon and gar­nered a fourth-place !inish. 
The eight finished with a time of 7 minutes, 3.21 seconds, trailing victor California by 17 seconds. Washington State fin­ished ahead of Notre Dame by a little under than three sec­onds for third place. 
The following day proved more fruitful for the first varsi­ty eight in the Jessop-Whittier Petite race, a race consisting of crews finishing out of the top two in its' first heat. The race came down to the wire as Notre 
see SAN DIEGO/page 22 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 
Nakazaki leads the way to victory at Indiana 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
The Irish won their second tournament in a row this past weekend at the Indiana Invitational in Bloomington, besting an 18-team field in the weather-shortened tournament at Indiana University Golf Club. 
Windy conditions and a wet course forced tournament offi­cials to cut the competition from 54 holes to 36. 
Irish sophomore Noriko Nakazaki 
was the event's individual champion, shooting a 2-over par 146, beating out Toledo's Natalie Storck by one stroke. 
The win represented the third time the Irish have taken both the individual and team titles at 
a tournament. It was also the first individual · victory of Nakazaki's collegiate career. 
"That's a big step for her mentally," Irish head coach Debby King said. "Getting her first collegiate win is a big 
·deal." 
Despite the win, the weekend was not perfect for the Irish, who watched senior co-captain Suzie Hayes withdraw from the first round with a hand injury. 
"She came up to me during the first round," King said of Hayes. "Her left hand had swelled up and she couldn't grip the club." · 
Hayes returned to action Sunday and shot a 78. She is expected to be able to compete 
see INDIANA/page 22 

WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
ND splits weekend games 
Irish lose to UConn 13-10, bounce back against Rutgers 
By MATT PUGLISI Associate Sports Editor 
It was a weekend of firsts at Moose Krause Field this weekend. 
After falling to visiting Connecticut (6-2, 1-1 Big East) 13-10 Friday night­the first home Irish loss to the Huskies in program his­tory-Notre Dame (3-6, 1-2 Big East) bounced back Sunday afternoon to knock off Rutgers (3-6, 1-2 Big East) 12-9 for its first Big East win of the year behind 
see LACROSSE/page 22 

en 
NO MEN'S TRACK 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 

NO WOMEN'S HOOPS 
SMC TENNIS 

MEN'S TENNIS 
Nil WOMEN'S TRACK 
1--
(,) Irish win five events 

Batteast, Schrader 
Notre Dame 5, 
Team qualifies seven 
SMC9, 
SMUS 

z at Purdue's Poehlein 

play well in Indiana-
Long Beach 2 
members for Big East
Albion 0 

Notre Dame 0 
InvitationaL 

polis all-star games. 
Irish bounce back 
finals at Purdue 
Belles open year with 

Injuries hobble team 
= ::5 
from loss to Wisconsin. 
Saturday.
9-0 scrimmage victory 

in 5-2 loss to SMU 
page 20 
over Albion. 
Saturday.
c:l: 
page 21 
page 21 
page 20 
page 19

page 19
a.. !:i 
en 

Monday, April 4, 2005 The Observer + POPE JOHN PAUL II 1920-2005 page 3 
an offaith, a "'It is certainly a very "'His papacy was a great gift "'The pope was a champion of d events ... and great los~ notjust to Catholics, and an all types ofpeople and of Jst influential for Catholicism but for all inspiration to all people human dignity. " t world history. " humanity., · ofgood will." 
ard Malloy Jerry Strabley Father John Jenkins Thien-An Nguyen-Vu President Notre Dame security University President-elect Morrissey freshman 
Church turns attention toward next leader 
Cardinals will follow complicated process to select Pope John Paul II's successor 
death. the eardinals already in selected. According to church." Begoglio, archbishop of 
By KATE ANTONACCI Home must wait 15 days for CNN.com, a chemical is mixed One figure that has been Buenos !\ires, Argentina, was 
in Focus Wri[er 
those who are absent to travel with the ballots to produce the brought up as a possible can­also listed as a candidatn. If to the Vatican, Cunningham black smoke. When a new d.id ate is Cardinal Francis elected, Begoglio would 
Pope John Paul ll's death on said. pope is chosen, the ballots are Arinze of Nigeria. Notre Dame become the first Jesuit popn. Saturday marked the end of Once the cardinals are at the burned alone without chemi­is presenting him an honorary The process of choosing a his 27-year term as leader of Vatican, they may not commu­cals, and white smoke doctorate at the University's nnw pope is not easy, as therP tho Catholic Church. The nicate with anyone outside the emerges from the Pala:ee. Commencement eeremony in are many factors to be consid­rnsponsibility of choosing a area until a new pope is cho­"No one knows who it is May, Cunningham said. ered. now popn lies in the hands of sen. going to be," Cunningham "If [Arinze is eleeted popel "Do you try to replicate the members of the Sacred Cardinals under the age of said. he obviously will not be at the !John Paul Ill. or do you bring Colleg1~ of Cardinals, who have 80 are eligible to vote. Though Professors Dolan, Hougeau commence­someone in who 20 days following the death of there are over 150 cardinals, and Cunningham itll cited an ment," Cunn-will focus mon\ the pope to call a meeting of only 117 cardinals are eligible old Italian saying when asked ingham said. on managing
"We're not going to
cardinals to tho Vatican. to vote. They will meet in the for predietions about the Arinze, 72, the Church as At this limn, nothing is Sistine Chapel eaeh day until future pope -"Whoever goes has been a key have a black pope. an institution?" known lwyond speculation they reach a 2/3 vote, into the eonelave comes out a figure in ... The church won't said H. Scott ahout who the next pope will Cunningham said. cardinal." arranging inter­Appleby, history
make two bold moves 
lw, said theology professor According to CNN.com, the "The person who is favored faith dialogue prof'essor and I.awnmen Cunningham. blank ballots are rectangular to be pope never becomes it," among Cath­in a row. diroetor of tho "There's a pretty formal in shape and must Dolan said. olics, Muslims Kroe Institute process. Tlwy do a good job bear. in the upper Pope John Paul and Hindus. for Inter-nation­
Father Richard McBrien 
at keeping it seernt," said half, the world II was the first Arinze was al Pnacn Stud­
"No one knows theology professor 
Vinennt Hougnau, associate "Eiigo in Sum­non-Italian pope close to John ios. "The new
who it is going 
prol'nssor in the Law School. mum Pontificem," in 455 years, Paul II, accord-pope will have "They are, however, supposed. meaning "I elect to be." Cunningham ing to CNN. If to deal with to bn thinking about the good a.s..s~p~eme po~­said. The corner-elected pope, he would be the three issues: the poor in the of tho Church." tlff. 1 he cardi-stone of his first black pope since Gelasius world, the world of' Islam
Lawrence Cunningham 
Catholics around the world nals write the papacy was in 492. Iandi advances in seione<~ and havo rosponded to the death of name of a candi­theology professor global outreach However, Father Hichard biotechnology." tho popn and are anticipating date on the lower and it is because McBrien, theology professor Under Pope John Paul II. the ­the appointment of a new half and fold it in of his great at Notre Dame, told the "Church moved to the right lead or. two. The elector then walks to interest in the world that some Boston Herald that it is and got very conservative," 
"The thing I'm amazed at is an altar in order of seniority are speculating that the next unlikely a black pope will be Dolan said. the tremendous outpouring of and places the ballot onto a pope may be from a Third elected. Many agree that the cardi­pnople in prayer and support small disc and drops it inside World country, another non­"We're not going to have a nals may choose someone and mourning for his death a chalice. Italian or possibly a non­black pope ....The church more moderate in their views. and also a tribute to his mem­If there is no winner, anoth­European. won't make two bold moves in Dolan compared Pope John ory," said Jay Dolan, professor er vote is taken, Cunningham "There's been some specula­a row," he said. Paul II to Pope John XXIII, emeritus of history. "IIe obvi­said. tion Central and Latin CNN listed Cardinal Joseph who introduced Vatican II and ously had a major impact on "If after 30 ballots they don't American cardinals and also Ratzinger, John Paul Il's chief called the Second Vatican the entire world." have a 2/3 vote, they can some from Europe of course." theological adviser; Cardinal Council, to describe his con­
Following the death of a agree that the simple majority Cunningham said. Dionigi Tettamanzi, archbish­servatism. popn, a period of mourning would do to elect a new pope," "It would be good to have op of Milan, Italy; Cardinal "He (Pope John XXIII) want­begins and runs for nine days. Cunningham said. someone from say Africa, Ivan Dias, archbishop of ed to let the windows of the The mourning period began The ballots are burned after which has the fastest growing Mumbai; Cardinal Godfried church and let some air in," Sunday morning, Cunningham votes are counted. If black Catholic population, or Latin Danneels, archbishop of Dolan said. "I think John Paul said. smoke emerges from the roof America," Cunningham said. Mechlen-Brussels, Belgium II dosed those windows." 
Though the conclave of car­of the Vatican Palace. those in "I think it would be a terrific and others as potential candi­dinals must be called no more waiting in St. Peter's Square thing for the Church -after dates. Contact Kate Antonacci at than 20 days after the pope's know that a pope has not been all the Church is a Catholic Cardinal Jorge Mario kantonac@nd.edu 

April 2. 2005 PopeJohn Paul II dks
~--e_____o_h_n__P_a_u_l_l-+i~3varlcan catablishcd 
Pope John PauJ n, tfrom 

May 13. 1981

n-Jtalian 
John Paul n survive~ 
aasa••inatiion attempt in 
St. Pettis Squazc by 
Mebmct Ali Agca. 

II made haa fint visit I'D the United ere he addrcssr:d the United Nations; fintt ofscvrral vl1its to Poland wbel'r 
criticiud the communist rrgimr. 
April 23. 2002. John Paul 11 rumme>ned the U.S. aurdina:ls 1982 
to diiQ:IISs aa abu~ scandal; aa.Kl there John Paul D r«civcd PaJc.ti:.nian leadu Y:aaa::r A~ 
•i1 no place in the priesthood for prmroking c:riticlam Gom brad. 
dukswho abutse t.be young. 
at agr 84. 

formal tics with brad. 
ln his 6m trip to Ho.ly Land,. John Paul D 
ap&logilu:d fot "'tile behavicu oftho.ae• who 
~cd the Jews to IULz. 


2005 

1998 John Paulllmadc -bi.toJki trip to Cuba ad ll'lfl with Fidel Castro. 

-

page 4 The Observer + POPE JOHN PAUL II 1920-2005 Monday, April4, 2005 

Students in Rome join in mourning pope 
St. Peter's Square fills with faithful 
ever known it," she said. "So many "The whole city feels the effects of a blessing at the end. I was there with By KAREN LANGLEY people have been out either driving or this event -St. Peter's Square is the the Notre Dame crowd again, and In Focus Writer just walking near St. Peter's, but even only place in the city that is crowded everyone was cheering and clapping 
among them it has been almost silent. at all, which is unusual for a week­when he appeared at his window," 
When Ashley Sinnott arrived at St. There is an overwhelming feeling of end," Murray said. "It's amazing to be Sinnott said. Peter's Square Saturday, the news of sadness, but also of respect." in Rome right now. I really feel like "A microphone was given to him, but Pope John Paul II's death had been Mullaney called the cycle of praying I'm living a part of history." he couldn't speak. He waved, and kept reverberating around the globe for for the pope before and after his death Notre Dame students studying putting his hands to his cheeks, like he more than three hours. The square "surreal." abroad in Europe were drawn to Rome was crying. It was really emotional, itself. however, remained suspended "Since Friday, I think most people on Easter weekend for a reunion because I think everyone knew this in time. over here have been aware that it was organized by Campus Ministry. would be his last Easter -there was 
"Even though I didn't get there until only a matter of hours, and we had "There were students that traveled no way we could have realized it around 1 a.m., the piazza CNN on constantly, wait­from Dublin, London and would be his last public was still filled with thou­ing for the latest news," Spain to meet at the appearance, or his last
-
sands of people singing, "Rome has been Mullaney said. Colosseum for Stations of "It's amazing to be Sunday Mass." crying and clapping," the quieter than I "It was incredible to be the Cross on Good Friday. in Rome .... I really As the week went on, Notre Dame junior said. there with thousands and Apparently, Good Friday students were aware that
have ever feel like I'm living
"There were backpackers thousands of people -and the events that the pope was nearing his
known it."

with pillows sleeping Catholics, Christians and accompany it have a part ofhistory. " final hours. under the columns, there non-Christians all coming always been very special "I would say the overall were tiny altars set up all together to pay their for the pope, even more mood that I've experi­
Laura Mullaney Caroline Murray 
around the square, there respects and say some so than Easter," Sinnott enced in the last day is
Notre Dame junior Notre Dame junior 
were people with rosaries prayers. said. one of sadness, but also staring up at the pope's "I know l will never for­"So TV monitors at the relief, because he's been window. It was very intense because get how it felt to stand under the Colosseum broadcasted images of his so sick there last few months," Sinnott everyone present was so emotional." pope's window with countless others, watching our gathering. It was really said. 
Sinnott, who is studying in Rome this the smell of scented candles burning a memorable experience to be in the "I know that when the original semester, was not the only Notre throughout the night, and the sound of middle of Rome with Notre Dame kids announcement was made to the Dame student to experience the imme­one group in particular singing songs from all over Europe, watching the square, they said 'John Paul has diate aftermath of the 84-year-old accompanied by a guitar." ceremony with the pope." returned home,' and everyone pope's death. Junior Caroline Murray agreed, Students were also present at the clapped." 
The impact of John Paul Il's death adding she does not expect the com­pope's last public appearance, which was felt intensely on the city streets, munity's intensity to drop in the com­occurred Easter Sunday. junior Laura Mullaney said. ing weeks as the Church works toward "Easter Mass wasn't said by [John Contact Karen Langley at 
"Rome has been quieter than I have selecting John Paul II's successor. Paul II] obviously, but he came out for klanglel @nd.edu 









