
--------------~--------~--------~.-~­

THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 

VOLUME 40: ISSUE 15 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12,2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Students celebrate Notre Da111e's 17-10 vvin over Michigan 
Fans travel to Ann Arbor to watch the Irish defeat the Wolverines 
oil" a season since Knute Hockne quickly our defenso improvedBy JENNY HAMES 
in 1918. compared to last season and last News Writer 
Morn than 111 ,000 fans in the game. I'm excited to see what 
Big I louse witnosscd the historie happens when the whole team 
Thn usually doafnning Big vietory. Tickets were hard to clicks at once against a tough llouso was mostly sil!mt comA by for Notre Dame fans opponent." Saturday. who wanted to travel to the Sophomore Tim Goldsmith, 
Mostly silent, that is, nxcnpt for game, but sonior Erie Staron, who watched the game at Notre tho patehos of hardeoro Irish like hundrnds of his peers, made Dame, said he was impressed fans sprinkled throughout it to Ann Arbor to eheer on the with Weis' coaching tactics. Michigan Stadium -cheering Irish. "Our opening drive went well," on Notrn Dame in a win fi1r the "It was fun to hear the Goldsmith said. "IWeis] really rm:ord books as Irish hoad eoaeh Michigan stadium go silent and held his own. lie put pressure on Charlie Wnis became the first only hear the Notre Dame fans the team rather than on him-Notrn Dame coach to win two eheering," Staron said. "I was back-to-back road games to start really surprised, though, at how see GAME/ page 4 



ND, SMC offer hurricane aid and analysis 
esc hosts disaster relief academic forum 
By KATE ANTONACCI Associate News Editor 
While the country-Notre Damn indudnd -was stunnnd by tho devastation llurrieane Katrina lnft behind. the University community was quick to act by jumping hnadlong into tho aid and n~linf ofl'orts. 
Thn Cnntnr for Soda! Concerns · (CSCI did its part by organizing a full day of nvnnts to both aid the nfl'orts and edueatn the commu­nity about thn issue. As part of llurrieann Katrina Hesponse Day, the CSC hosted an Acadnrnk Forum for Disastflr Holilll' Friday in tho CSC Coll'ee llouso. 
Tlw IWmlt, moderated by Bill l'urcnll, associate director for Catholic Social Tradition and J'raelien at tl11~ CSC, featured four spoakers: Justin l'oehP, a doctoral candidate in history, psychologist Lnn llickrnan, eco­nomics professor Jonnifer Warlil:k and Stephanie Williams of tlw local chaptnr of tho Hed 
see FORUM/page 4 


By MEGAN O'NEIL and opened its enrollment Aug. 30, flooding the city. Saint Mary's Editor to undergraduates dis­Two such students, fresh­placed by the disaster. man Julie Prior and junior 
While colleges across the College officials said they Vivian Mary Coney, had country busied themselves had developed an emer­enrolled as of Friday. collecting money and sup­gency admissions policy to "It was a decision plies to benel'it Hurricane assist students who were reached by the president's Katrina victims last week, lel't without a school to cabinet," said Dan Meyer, Saint Mary's took its attend after levees protect­response one step further ing New Orleans gave way see DISPLACED/page 8 
Professor's simulations used for storm models 
By KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writer 
Since Hurricane Katrina struck 
the southeastern United Statns 
two weeks ago, Notre Dame stu­
dents have joined audiences 
around the globe in prayer and 
fundraising filr the storm's victims 
-but most students are unawarn 
that a mcmbnr of the Notre Damn 
faculty is dm~ply involved in efl(wt<; 
to prevent future storms from 
causing such destruction. 
For morn than 15 years, prolhs­
sor Joannes Westerink of the department of eivil engineering · and geological sdences has devel­opnd the oman circulation modols that allow engineers to design structures dependent on water conditions. such as New Orlnans' 
system oflevees. 
"We have been working with 
the Corps of Engineers New 
Orleans District for eight years," 
Westerink said. "Everyone in 
southern Louisiana is using the 
model." 
Thn Nnw Orleans District usod 
see MODEL/page 6 

Notre Datne cotntnunity remembers Sept. 11 attacks 

By MADDIE HANNA A~sociate News Editor 
Sept. 11 was not forgotten at Notre Dame. 
About 150 students and com­munity members gathered near the Clarke Memorial Fountain Sunday for prayer and reflection on the fourth anniversary of the World Trade Center terrorist attacks. The event was spon­sored by the Department of Political Science, College Demoerats, College Hepublicans, College Libertarians and Women in Politics. 
Director of Campus Ministry Father Warner, who led the opening and closing prayers, shared the story of his visit to Ground Zero right al'ter th1~ attacks. 
"I spent about five hours look­ing at that rubble, that smoke and fire ... watching firemen as they looked through debris for remains," Warner said. "While I was there, I would have these firemen come up to me with dark, sunken eyes and say to me, 'This was a friend of mine's brother. Will you pray for him'?"' 
For Warner, experiencing the scene firsthand was essential to his understanding of the situa­tion. 
"It was an amazing thing to see the sorrow," hn said. 
But tho cernrnony was not entirely about rnflnetion. Political sdonce professor Dan Lindley analyzed the U.S. response to Sept. 11, saying his main goal was to increase dis­cussion on tnrrorisrn "to try and help people who dil~d on Sept. 11 and 'make sure they didn't die in vain." 
Lindley said viewing terrorism as a form of war offers a per­spectivn many people do not consider. 
"We live in such a luxurious 
see 9-11 /page 6 

~---pagd _______T,_'h_e-0-b""'" .-P-~~G~£~2~----~ -~ --~ -M:n~ay,~,-pt-em-b-er-1-2, 2005 
========================================================================================

t 
INSIDE COLUMN 

! 

Everyday heroes 
For those students from New York City or the Washington D.C. area, and those who lost loved ones on Sept. 11, 2001, yesterday was a day of mourn­ing and remembering. I am from nei­ther of these 
Anthony
places. I have no 
personal ties with lannamorelli 
any one of the vic­
tims of 9/11. I am 
Wzre Editor
from Fayette 
County, Penn., 
about 45 minutes 
of winding, tree-lined mountain road 
away from the crash site of Flight 93. 
On that fateful day, America was at first confused, then terrified and angry, and all the while helpless. I am sure that millions of people in the countless small towns across America breathed a sigh of relief, believing they were safe, as they said prayers under their breath for those who were suffering in the big, far-away cities. 
As I watched, someone joked that no one would bother to attack southwest­ern Penn. If they thought they would destroy the United States' main coal and steel supplier, they were about 30 years too late. As soon as our quiet chuckles ended, the news broke that Flight 93 had crashed. It had crashed close. A feeling of dread moved like a shock wave from the site to the sur­rounding villages and towns. Many in the area thought that this was the start of a full-scale attack on every inch of America. It seems silly in hind­sight, but we thought that if the small town of Shanksville was attacked, then nowhere was safe. It was not until later that week that the coura­geous truth came out. 
The blood spilt on the ground in Shanksville is unique, set apart even from that of Gettysburg or the beaches of Normandy. The brave soldiers in those situations were prepared and trained for the horrors they would encounter. They awoke those morn­ings knowing they might not return to their loved ones. The 40 people who overpowered the highjackers and sac­rificed their lives were in no way pre­pared to become heroes the morning they boarded the plane, but their actions have placed them in the ranks of the bravest of veterans. 

The field where they crashed will . f soon be the sight of a memorial. But it will never be able to fully thank them.
t 
I I They overcame all fear to stop the evil and sacrificed themselves to save innocent lives just like theirs. And in doing this, they saved what had the
I potential to be the greatest symbolic 
t loss of 9/11: the White House. But I do 
r not think they thought of this as they charged the cockpit. They thought of the loved ones they called from the plane. They thought of the goodbyes sworn and hoped these would be made lies, not that they would be made heroes. I know my area was not chosen as the sight of final resting place for these brave individuals. It was fortu­nate that a bare field was chosen instead of a town, or even a house. But now that ground is holy. And it will forever emanate the one question we must all ask ourselves: would we do the same thing they did in that situ­ation? 
Contact Anthony lannamorelli at aiannamo@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest srandards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make misrakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU THINK OF THE MICHIGAN GAME? 




Brock Sheehan Dave Brown Fernando Quijano Matt Amado Matt Williams-Kovacs Joe Murphy 
sophomore junior sophomore senior junior sophomore Sorin Siegfried Carroll Stanford Morrissey Carroll 
"Good job Notre "My favorite "It was "Football ... ?" 'Tommy, you're "I dunno ... but Dame!" part was the awesome. We my hero!" I got a nice tan 
garbage on the showed that we field." have not only offense, but also defense." 

FRANCESCA SETA/The Observer ROTC cadets salute the American flag during the National Anthem Friday morning at a Patriot's Day ceremony at the Hesburgh Library Reflecting Pool. The vigil honored war veterans and victims of the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks. 
OFFBEAT 

Scottish team wins 2005 elephant polo match 
BANGKOK, Thailand ­Straddled atop hulking pachyderms and wielding long mallets, the Chivas Regal Scotland team clinched their second King's Cup Elephant Polo title Sunday after scoring a golden goal in overtime to beat Thailand's Mullis Capital, 6-5. 
Some 1,500 spectators came to watch the fifth annu­al charity game to raise money for Thailand's National Elephant Institute in Lampang, Thailand. The tournament was held near Hua Hin, 80 miles southwest of Bangkok. 
The game is played on a field 330 feet by 200 feet, roughly one-third the size of a horse polo field. A game has two seven-minute halves ­known as chukkas -with a 15-minute interval. Three elephants form a team. 
Chivas Regal, which won the 2004 tournament, was tied with Mullis Capital after the second chukka and scored the winning goal after two minutes of overtime, said Wanida Khunthipmark, a spokeswoman for the event. 
Squirrel kills Topeka power 
TOPEKA, Kan.-A squir­rel too curious for its own good caused an outage that left the Statehouse and other downtown Topeka buildings briefly without power Thursday, according to Westar Energy Inc. 
Company spokeswoman Gina Penzig said the squirrel got into a power substation and was touching different parts of a circuit, causing electricity to flow through its body and overload the circuit. 
The power went out about 8:30a.m. and returned about a half-hour later. Besides the Statehouse, two state govern­ment office buildings were affected. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY  TONIGHT  TUESDAY  WEDNESDAY  
a:: 1.&.1 :::c !;;: 1.&.1 3:  ~  
 ~  ~  
..... c:c (.) 0 ...I  HIGH LOW  90 82  HIGH LOW  66 58  HIGH LOW  90 65  HIGH LOW  79 59  
Atlanta 88 I 66 Boston 76 I 56 Chicago 84 I 64 Denver 86 I 56 Houston 94 I 73 Los Angeles 77 I 60 Minneapolis 84 168 New York 82 I 64 Philadelphia 84 I 62 Phoenix 98 I 80 Seattle 66 I 52 St. Louis 92 I 72 Tampa 88 I 76 Washington 86 164 


there. , 

IN BRIEF 
All Notre Dame faculty are invited to an introductory address from Provost Tom Burish today at 4 p.m. in DeBartolo 1 01. 
A panel discussion titled "Why do we need the UN?" will be held Thesday from 4:15 p.m. to 
5:30 in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium. The event is spon­sored by the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
The Saint Mary's Student Governance Association is host­ing the State of the School Address, the student body presi­dent's annual report, on Thursday at 7 p.m. in Stapleton Lounge. 
An exhibit entitled Two Italian Hardbodies: Spons Cars Clad by Scaglietti and Frua will be on display in the Snite Museum of Art Entrance Atrium Gallery until Sept. 18. The exhibit fea­tures a 1958 Ferrari and a 1955 Maserati. Admission is free. 
Fiddler's Hearth is hosting a "halfway to St. Patrick's Day" Irish Fest Friday, Sept. 16 through Sept. 23 to raise money for the Red Cross Hurricane Relief Fund. Irish bands The Sprigs, The Bardic Apostles, The Fenians, Teada, Brock McGuire and local band Kennedy's Kitchen will perform, and all have discounted their tickets to aid the relief. Fiddler's Hearth is located in downtown South Bend at 127 N. Main. For tickets and information, call 232­2853. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 
~ 
~ 

HIGH 76 HIGH 74 LOW 56 LOW 56 

Monday, September 12, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

ROTC Patriot's Day ceremony honors victillls, veterans 
By NICOLE ZOOK 
A.\Si.,ranr News Fdiror 
The attitude at tlw llesburgh Library rel'lecting pool was sombnr Friday morning as Notrn I>ame and Saint Mary's students, l'awlty and stall' and a handful or war vnterans gatiH~rnd to honor those who lost tlwir livns in thn tPrTorist attacks of SnpL 11, 2001 and those who have dim! in the following global war on terror. 
Thn Army, Navy and Air Foree Ill)']'(: brandws jointly sponsored llw fourth annwtl Patriot's Day CPrPmony as an "opportunity lilr lhn Notre DamP family and grnatnr South lknd community to pay tributn to thosn innocent vk­lims who died in tlw Sept. I I, 200 I terrorist. attacks on thn World Trade CPnt.nr. tlw l'nntagon and lo'light. <n, and to rnnwmbnr those who continue to S<H'V<~ in tlw armed li11·cns of our gnmt nation to light tlw war on terror," tri-mil­
itary  romnHtrHlnr  Cadnt  
l.inutPnant  Colonel Haduwl  
Waltnrs said.  

Waltnrs, a Saint Mary's snnior, sPrvnd as mastnr or cnrmnonins for thn vigil, which all HOTC <·adds from ea<:h branch and about . .'iO civilians attmHII~d. Thn cPrnmony indudnd an invocation and hnrwdirtion from HOTC Chaplain httiH•r I'Plnr Hocca, the playing or t.lw national antlwm, and words from guns!. spnakm· r<'lirml Lt. Col. Douglas llmnphill, who shan•d with tlw audinnc:n his thoughts on patriotism aft<·r· snrv­ing in t.hn Army. 
"I hPiinvn WP can't just. allow rircumst.ar11·.ns to dPiirw patriot, or patriotism, or anything else for that matter," he said. "It is more bask and concrntn than thai." 
llemphill said children are taught about good and evil, a dis­tinction that blurs as they grow older. 
"lAs children! we wanted so much for truth and goodness to prevail that we almost accepted tho idea that tho world would simply evolve into a kinder and gentler place," he said. "Some of us even drnamed we could trans­form evil through our own human adions. Sept. 11 and tho events of thn last liwr years contradict that drmun. Cnrtainly God can trans­lill'ln evil. I cannot. What I can d() -what I have done -what you are doing -is to stand up to evil through patriotic servien." 
llnmphill called thn Notrn Damn nnvironmnnt a nurturing place I(Jr snrvi<:n whore the call to serve can bn hnard "nspndally dearly," noting campus landmarks such as tlw Clarko Memorial Fountain, lloly Cross Cmnetnry -where soventl markers signify "the serv­ieo of priests of tho Iloly Cross and Notre Dame community as military chaplains" -and the Basilica to prove his point. 
"At Notre Damn, the idea of snrvieH presents itself to us every day. The words on the east entrance to our Basilica of the Sacred llfmrt call us to service ­to 'Cod, Country, Notre Dame."' hn said. "And hearing the words 'God, Country, Notrn Dame,' it is dillicult lilr any of us who wear a unii(H·m not to think of a related call to snrviee -to 'Duty, I lonor, Country."' 
llnmphill also spoke of war vet­erans, both those who "served to the point of the ultimate sacrifice" and those who "returned home to continue quietly serving society." Several such veterans, including Ralph "Lefty" Guillette, were in attendance at the ceremony. 
"]Ceremonies like this are important! to show that the youth we have, that are so often degraded and insulted, care about being patriots,'' Guillette said. "Inside, we're just as proud of this country as we were in my generation. the 'Greatest Generation."' 
Hemphill spoke of the 'Greatest Generation· as well, and called the uniformed students in atten­dance to serve as their fathers and grandfathers did. 
"What makes this commemora­tion so speeial is this: if you look around, I think you will see next to you the people who will bncome the Greatest Generation. Your membership in the HOTC programs imposes on you a call to service that I think most of you have already accepted," Hemphill said. "It is as well a call to vigi-· lance. It is a call to responsibility. It is a call to stand and protect." 
Giullette, who served in the Korean War and wa·s wounded during one or two long tours in Vietnam -totaling 24 years in service -said he feels the Notre Dame cadets answered this call and will continue to remember why it is important to serve. 
"We talk about 'remember the Alamo,"' he said. "Now we've got to say, 'remember 9111.' That's the thing the military teaches you -how commitment and devotion ... always stay with you, you're born an American." 

Guillette, 75, said he undor­stands the community atmos­phere and spirit of service at Notre Dame -he is a student at the University. 
"I am so proud to be a part of Notre Dame's campus but even more proud to be a student at Notre Dame," he said. "l look at Notre Dame like the Marine Corps -semper li, always faith­ful. There's no middle road for ND or the Marine Corps, you either love 'em m· you hate 'em. You have to be a part of it to approeiatn it." 
Guillette and snveral othnr vnt­nrans tnarnd up at snvnral poinL'i during the n~remony, most notice­ably wlwn two cadets played 'Taps' across thn mllnding pool. 
"Wn can go to ballganws and takn our childrnn to parks with­out fear bncausn pnopln clind," Guillnttn said. "If I was 20 ynars youngnr, I'd lw proud to go to Iraq. OK, mayb<~ :w years youngnr." 
Contact Nicole Zook at zook8928@saintmarys.edu 

------------.---.-;----~-.-------­
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 12, 2005 
for people who need it and want to use us."
Foru01 

However, Hickman said that what people need most after a
continued from page 1 

crisis is first aid -water, food, safety and a roof over their head. Cross. "Some may need some psycho­
Purcell introduced the forum logical first aid, but that doesn't by asking the audience, "What's mean a therapist," Hickman the response for Hurricane said. Katrina? How do we use our Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder minds and bodies? What are the (PTSD) is often a result of trau­ways we can respond?" matic events, like Hurricane 
Poche, a New Orleans native, Katrina. PTSD is a psychiatric was the first to speak, giving the disorder that can occur following history of the New Orleans area. the experience or witnessing of 
" I t ' s life-threat­
nice to do e n i n g some­events· thing to "This situation was not what such as 
g i v e military
we've come to expect. We're
back," combat,
used to the Red Cross bringing 
Poche natural said. ''I'm coffee and blankets, not bodies disasters, v e y terrorist
r floating down the street. , 
home­incidents, sick." serious 
Len Hickman

Poche accidents described professor or violent 
the New Orleans area as a place that has often generated more heat than light. 
"It is only now in the wake of a national tragedy that it gains some attention," he said. 
Louisiana, like many places in the south, had a movement of families from rural areas into the cities -which led to limited housing, raised rents, crowded schools, persistent violence and high prices, Poche said. "Superghettos" were formed, where the lower class and minorities often lived. 
There was a "reinforced insu­lation of the communities from the rest of New Orleans," Poche said. 
Hurricane Katrina has brought the chance for people to reflect on the urban underclass in New Orleans and to reflect on nation­al values, Poche said. 
"It is difficult to avoid a deep sense of humanity," he said­noting that among glaring con­tradictions, people have a sur­prising connectedness to one another. "Perhaps the images coming through today will move us to finish the job." 
Hickman began his speech by letting the audience know the University Counseling Center is now located in the old post office building near Main Circle, if any­one requires their services. 
"There have been major disas­ters and crises in this country," he said. "We need to be available 

personal 
assaults 
like rape, Hickman said. 
"PTSD doesn't apply to what is going on in New Orleans now," Hickman said. "It could be in four months, six months from now." 
Individuals in New Orleans are likely experiencing acute stress disorder now, which often occurs anywhere from two days to four weeks after an event, Hickman said. 
However, Hickman said it is likely PTSD will be seen in the south in coming months. 
"The situation was not what we've come to expect," Hickman said. "We're used to the Red Cross bringing coffee and blan­kets, not bodies floating down the streets for five days." 
People who suffer from PTSD often relive the experience through nightmares and flash­backs, have difficulty sleeping and feel detached or estranged, and these symptoms can be severe enough and last long enough to significantly impair the person's daily life. 
Still, Hickman said positives often come out of tragedy. 
"The effects of traumatic events are not always negative. Resilience is the most common response to trauma," he said. 
Those at risk for PTSD include females, ages 40 to 60, ethnic minorities, people of low income status, witnesses of grotesque death and those who suffer from 

physical injury, resource or social support deterioration, alienation and mistrust, Hickman said. 
Warlick spoke on the economic impact of Hurricane Katrina. Individuals in the New Orleans area already had significantly lower incomes than the rest of the country. While the median of American household annual income earnings is $42,000 and $33,000 for Louisiana, 50 per­cent of houses in New Orleans made ends meet on only $27,000 or less annually, she said. 
Warlick said economic policy­makers at every level are going to be struggling to meet the needs of the people affected in different ways. 
"The last thing we want to do is forget the people who lost the most," she said. "Economists do sometim~s try to put a monetary value on a life -we don't want to do that." 
Warlick also said economic struggle in the area will come about in large part because many of the people who died in New Orleans were important sources of income and economic support for families in the area. 
Advanced societies have socie­tal safety nets to keep people from being totally destitute. The struggle now, Warlick said, is to see what kinds of nets were actually in place before Katrina and see how they are respond­ing. 
Though individuals often had private safety nets -like home insurance -they are of little value. Most homes in the dam­aged areas were insured against wind damage but not flooding. 
"Even people who had home insurance -not many would be able to receive a replacement value," Warlick said. 
While welfare is an option, to receive such funds one has to be working. 
"How do you respond if there are not jobs available?" Warlick said. 
A further problem is that pro­grams like welfare and food stamps require proof of residen­cy and birth certificate, an impossible task for people who may have left documentation in their now-ruined homes. 
Warlick said it appears as if the federal government will have to spend $200 billion on rebuild­ing the New Orleans area. 
Williams spoke about the efforts by the Red Cross to offer aid to hurricane victims. 
So far, almost 160,000 people have been housed across 17 states. Millions of meals have been given out thanks to the hands of over 32,000 volunteers, Williams said. 
The Red Cross' mission is to provide food, shelter and cloth­ing -not through collections, but funds. 
"We help anyone affected by disaster," Williams said. "We are mandated by Congress to pro­vide this service, however we receive no government funding." 
The Red Cross has exercised their national disaster plan, mean"ing all money collected goes directly to the national headquarters for use only on hurricane victims. 
The local Red Cross chapter has been welcoming evacuees, who turn to workers to help them "start a paper trail." Specifically, every effort has to be made to locate parents of children left orphans by the hur­ricane, Williams said. 
Never before has the Red Cross given this kind of aid. The monetary collections were not this high -$240 million -after the tsunami or Sept. 11, 2001, Williams said. 
Williams said their main goals are family identification and rebuilding. She also said although they are "all up in arms about a lot of things" with the response time, the Red Cross cannot lose sight of providing food, shelter and clothing. 
"We specialize in disaster," she said. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 
Law&... 
September 14, 2005 4:30p.m. Law School Room 120 



Ga01e 
continued from page 1 
self." 
The student body seems to have an optimistic attitude about this year's football sea­son, freshman Christine Clark said. 
"I was a little scared in the fourth quarter when Michigan started coming back, but I knew the Irish would pull through in the end," she said. 
Freshman Ronald Kerelegon said he was sur­prised at the final score of the game, in which Michigan remained held to three points until its first touchdown in the fourth quarter. 

"The game was surprising­ly low-scoring," Kerelegon said. "I didn't think the Michigan defense would have played as well as they did. It was smart, though, how Notre Dame ran down the clock at the end of the game." 
Many fans, like freshman Megan Erikson, said the highlight of this low-scoring game was second-year Michigan quarterback Chad Henne's fumble on the one­yard line. 
"As a freshman, I am new to the whole Notre Dame football experience, and I found the game to be enthralling," she said. "The touchback was so intense. It was definitely the best part of the game. It must have been embarrassing for the Wolverines." 
With two wins behind the team, many Notre Dame fans ·I are anxiously looking foward to watching the Irish take on Michigan State this Saturday in the opening home game. 
Contact Jenny Hames at jhames@nd.edudu 
"Sleeping with Baby: ANatural Ecology or aProsecutable Offense?" 
Presenter:  James McKenna Department ofAnthropology  
Commentator:  Eric Smithburn The Law School  

Pleasejoin the Law School and the Department qfAnthropology for this first presentation in the 2005-2006 Law &... series. 






ORLD & NATION 
Monday, September 12, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WJRE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Iran warns U.N Security Council 
TEl !HAN -Iran said Sunday it would not stop uranium conversion and warned of con­sequnnees if it was referred to tlw U.N. S•~curity Coundl for possible sanctions over its mu:hHU' program. 
Fornign Minist«~r Manoudwhr Mottaki said Iran wants to continue dialogue with Europe without preconditions and rejected a U.S.­I·:uropean threat that Tehran has about a w•~ek to frnnze uranium processing activities or fa•~e referral to the Security Coundl. 
"Tlwn~ is no legal or legitimato reason, given Iran's transparent activities and its open cooperation with tlw IAEA ·... that Iran lw rderred to tlw U.N. Security Council," Mottaki told a news •:onference. 
Mexico begins election season MONTEHHEY -Thrne former nwmbers of l'rnsidnnt Vkentn Fox's Cabinet vied Sunday to become tho ruling National Action Party's presidential •:andidate in 2006 el•1etions. 
Fornwr Energy Secretary Felipe Calderon IPd in oarly results in the first of' three rngional votes to selod a National Action candidate. Fox is prohibited by law from soeking a second torm. 
With ballots eountml from about 40 per­cent of voting stations, Calderon rnceived about 44 porcont of tho votes, followed by former lntnrior Ministnr Santiago Creel with :n~ percnnt and former Environment Socretary Albnrto with about 1 H percent, party oflkials reported. 
CrPnl had led pn~l'erencP among party nwmbnrs for months. But Calderon gained ground in public npinion polls after a strong performance televisml dnbates last wonk. 

NATIONAL NEWS 
Carolinas fear Hurricane Ophelia WILMIN<;TON, N.C.-llurrieane OphPiia sat rwarly stationary off the coast of the Carolinas on Sunday, taunting coastal resi­dents madn wary by the destruction that Katrina eausnd along thn Gulf Coast. 
The storm was morn than 200 miles from land with sustained wind of nearly 75 mph, but it was piling up heavy surf that chal­l•mged surfnrs and pounded the beaches. A hurrieann watch remained in elTeet from just north of Edisto Bnaeh, S.C., to North Carolina's Cape Lookout, a strntch of more than 250 miles. 
Warning of the possibility of coastal flood­ing, Gov. Mike Easlny sent 200 National c;uard soldiers to staging centers in eastern North Carolina and ordered a mandatory evacuation of tourists visiting fragile Oeraeoke Island on tho Outnr Banks, reach­ahln only by ferry. 
Hearings on Roberts open today 
WASIIIN<;TON -Thn ehairman of the Snnate Judiciary Committee said Sunday he will not ask Supreme Court chin!' justice nominee John Hoborts whether he would vote to overturn Hoe v. Wade, the landmark dndsion that legalized abortion. 
Snn. Arlen Specter, H-Pa., did say he planned to ask Hobnrts, the prnsident's pick to suceeml Uw latn William II. Hehnquist as chief justien. whether there is a right to pri­vacy in thn Constitution. 

LOCAL NEWS 
Hoosier television broadcaster dies 
INDIANAPOLIS -Chris Schenkel, an Indiana icon and one of the founding fathers of sports broadcast journalism, died early today at Lutheran Jlospital in Fort Wayne, Ind.. after a long battle with emphysema. He was H2. 
Sehonknl's radio and television broadcast­ing earem spanned morn than 60 years and indudod virtually every major sports compe­tition. 
Known for his smooth, deep baritone voice, he was the first to cover the Masters Tournament on television, in 1956. 
New Orleans tries to rebuild 
City turning a corner two weeks after tragedy; death toll remains uncertain 
Associated Press 
NEW OHLEANS Workers here wern picking up trash Sunday, a small miradn umlf~r the drcum­stapens. The airport opened to cargo traffic. A bullhom-winlding volun­teer led relief' workers in a chorus of "Amazing 
Grace.~· 
Nearly two weeks al'ter llurricane Katrina's onslaught, the day was marked by signs that hopelessness was begin­ning to lift in this shat­tPred eity. While the final toll from the disaster remains unknown, there were indications New Orleans had begun to turn a corner. 
"You see the eleaning of the streets. You sec the people coming out," said the volunteer with the bullhorn, Norman Flowers. "The people aren't as afraid anymore." 
Later in the day, President Bush began his third visit to the city since the hurricane, landing on a warship that was assist­ing in recovery efforts and visiting with firelighters. 
Flowers, deployed by the Southern Baptist Convention, stood in the bed of a pickup truck on Canal Street, leading police, firefighters and relief workers in song, punctuated by tho exuber­ant honk of a fire truck nearby. 
"This is a sign of progress," said New Orleans resident Linda Taylor, gesturing at the impromptu gathering. "Last Sunday, I couldn't lind any church services. This Sunday, people have gathered together to wor­ship." 
Numerous residents were able to visit their homes· for the first time, however briPily, as flood­waters receded and work crews eleared trees, debris and downed telephone poles from major streets. 
Albert Gaudc Ill, a 


AP 
Jimmy Longley, 37, searches through the wreckage of his parents' Jiving room Sunday in 
Port Sulphur, La. 
Louisiana State University fisheries agent, was among those returning for the first time since the storm. 
"They wouldn't let us in before, but we made it now and we could drive all the way here with no problem," he said. 
Kristian Sornmier, 35, drove through the muck to his horne, broke through its water-swollen door and was· almost knocked off the porch by a swarm of gnats and nies. 
''I'm glad I got the chance to come back final­ly and see what the darn­age is," he said after col­lecting a few things. "It's looking better. But any­thing is better than how it was." 
Bush planned to spend the night aboard the USS lwo Jima, an amphibious assault ship anchored in the Mississippi Hiver in front of the convention center, where thousands of people waited in squalor for several days before being rescued. The vessel is serving as a control cen­ter in the relief efforts. On Monday, the president planned to tour the devas­tated town of Gulfport, Miss. 
The Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport reopened for cargo traflic Sunday, and limitnd passenger service was expected to resume Tuesday, airport Dirnctor Hoy Williams said. 
Williams said lw expects about 30 dnpartures and arrivals of passenger planes a day -far below the usual 174 -at thn air­port, where a wnek ago terminals became triagn units and more than two dozen people died. 
Starting Monday, owners of businesses in thn cen­tral commereial district will be able to get tmnpo­rary passes into thn city so they can retrieve vital rncords or equipment nended to make payroll or otherwise run their com­panins, said statn polie11 spoknsman Johnny Brown. 
ISRAEL 

Israeli troops pull out of Gaza Strip 
Associated Press 

NEVE DEKALIM, Gaza Strip -The last Israeli troops began driving out of the Gaza Strip in large convoys early Monday and flag-waving Palestinian police took over the abandoned posi­tions as Israel wrapped up it<; historic pullout from the coastal territory after 38 years of occupation. 
Some 5,000 Israeli troops left in Gaza began driving toward Israel and the last Israeli soldier was to be out by daybreak. Meanwhile, Palestinian police on foot and in buses moved into the abandoned Jewish settlements. accompanied by cars earrying civilians who honked horns and waved flags. 
Palestinian forces in red beret'> plant­ed their flag in what was once the largest Jewish settlement in Gaza, Neve Dekalim. Hundreds of Palestinians celebrated, beating drums and marching toward the settlements. In the abandoned Morag settlement, the synagogue was set on frre. Mosques blared ·chants praising the "liberation" and fireworks lit up the sky. 
"It is only the first step to more liber­ation ... tomorrow we liberate all of Palestine," Gaza resident Mohammed Khamish Habboush shouted into a mosque loudspeaker. 
Late Sunday, Israeli troops had low­ered their national banner in Neve Dekalirn, snapped farewell pictures and dosed army headquarters, which were left intaet for use by the Palestinians. 
In a somber farnwell ccrnmony, the Israeli comrnandnr in Gaza, Brig. Gen. Aviv Kochavi, exprnssed hopn thn pull­out would be a step toward peace. "The gate that will dosn behind us is also the gate that will opnn," he said. "We hope it will bn a gate of pmu:n and quiet, a gate of hopn and goodwill, a gate of neighborliness and if' a bad wind brnaks through then we will greet it with a force of troops ready and waiting." 
-----~­
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Monday, Semptember 12, 2005 
storm require 128 to 512 comput­er processors working simultane­

Model 
ously. continued from page 1 "We work on the biggest 
Department of Defense supercom­the software of the Advanced puters," he said. "Such intensive Circulation Model (ADCIRC) to calculations would take months to design the city's levees. After do on one computer." Hurricane Betsy caused massive While the public's attention is destruction in 1965, the engineers now focused on the southeastern decided to update their models. region of the United States, the 
The software provides informa­ADCIRC model is applicable to any tion to engineers so they know region. It is currently used in sim­how structures will react to storms ulations for the Persian Gulf, the of different intensities, Westerink Mediterranean and the East and said. West coasts of,America. 
"The major problem is that it When reconstruction of New requires fw1ding from the govern­Orleans starts, Westerink's models ment, and that has not been com­will once again be employed to ing," he said. "It's about the risk give engineers a better under­they are willing to take. The standing of the natural forces they design storms were Category 3. will face. There have been quite a few "It's hwnan nature to learn from Category 3 storms, and the levees our mistakes," he said. "And held." sometimes it takes a tragedy for 
While the government does fund us to make our engineered sys­the current research needed to tems safer." protect the city from hurricanes, Westerink said increased fnnding Contact Karen Langley at is necessary. klanglel@nd.edu 
The engineering cost.<; to provide protection from a Category 5 storm would be $2.5 billion, he said. In the context of engineer­ing, this is not an extraordinary cost. A major bridge eosl<> $1 bil­lion to construct, and the Big Dig in Boston will require $11 billion, Westerink said. 
"You can see how the storm has taken lives, which of' course are irreplaceable, and will now cost hundreds of' billions of' dollars in reconstruction," he said. "And that doesn't even account for the eeonomic fallout." 
The software models measure how fast water flows, how high it !lows and where and when it will !low. There are also components that track the flow of pollution and sediment. 
Westerink came up with the ADCIRC with Rick Luettich, his roommate during their first year of graduate studies at MIT and now a professor at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. The pair has actively worked on the model's development since com­pleting graduate school more than 15 years ago. 
"As is true with any successful partnership, the collaborators need to have complementary roles," Luettich said. "Dr. Westerink has often been the visionary, daring to propose extremely challenging modeling feats." 
This boldness can be exempli­
I 
l 
fied by the efforts in southern Louisiana, Luettich said. 
'The complexity of representing 
I 
!low structures at scales of meters in the context of processes extend­ing over hnndreds of kilometers is
[ monumental," he said. "Dr. Westerink has doggedly pursued this application and should be widely recognized for his efforts." To design the model needed for these simulations, the scientists and engineers working in Westerink's Computational Hydraulics Lab must use applied mathematics, computer science, coastal oceanography and engi­neering. The model relies on the princi­ples of conservation of mass and conservation of momentlli11, which are formulated into differential equations to describe the physics of a situation. "The heart of the model changes ditlerential equations to algebraic equations that can be solved by computers," Westerink said. 


icy results . . . that emboldened groups" and the importance of the Bush administration and electoral participation. 
9-11 
neutered Democrats." "It kind of inspired me to Lindley urged the crowd of think of war as something dif­
continued from page 1 
"citizen-soldiers" to become ferent," she said. "To ask ques­
politically involved to combat tions about it and to not just situation," Lindley said. "We America's vulnerability after accept it." fight wars in other people's Sept. 11 and the more recent Sophomore Andrew Hartnett, territory. We don't realize how Hurricane Katrina. who attended in the memory of much wars are going on. Once "All you citizen-soldiers his friend's mother -a flight you understand war is fairly should go out, do what you can attendant on Flight 11 from common, 9/11 becomes a part in public discourse and Boston -said he wished the of the fabric of history." debates," he said. "Let's focus event would have focused 
Lindley said he did not want on the real problem here, in a more on the anniversary of the to diminish the magnitude or thoughtful way." tragic events of Sept. 11. impact of the attacks, or their After Warner's closing "I don't think there was "vicious and cruel" nature. prayer, the Glee Club sang enough remembrance," sopho­
"But [that's what] war is," he "Ave Maria" and "The Star more Andrew Hartnett said. "I said, citing the German Spangled Banner." don't think today is a day for blitzkrieg during WWII and Students had mixed reac­politics, the present or the Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. tions to the event. future -it's about four years 
"The scale of war is often Senior Aimee Shelide said ago, the families and loved vast," Lindley said. "Women, she wished more students ones, the lives that were children, non-combatants are would have attended, but changed forever. It's about rarely spared. That's nothing thought the fact Sept. 11 fell on what America stands for and new. Civilian innocence is a a Sunday was part of the rea­what was lost that day." mirage." son for low attendance. 
Lindley believed the "emo­However, she applauded the tionalism" resulting from 9/11 speaker's "acknowledgement Contact Maddie Hanna at caused "inefficient, unwise pol-of the four political party mhanna1@nd.edu 
The mathematics involved in the ADCIRC models are so complicat­

WE DELIVER! 7 DAYS A WEEK !r 
ed that the calculations for one 
54570 N.IRONWOOD DR. SOUTH BEND/MISHAWAKA 5343 N. MAIN ST. 
574.277.8500 574.968.4600 
''YOUR MOM WANT$ YOU TO EAT AT JIMMY JOliN'S!" © 

--~~------­
THE OBSERVER 
USINESS
Monday,.September 12, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
}ones ' 
tip: Same: Down: Composite Volume I ,242 177 ~ 1,941,081,140 
AMEX 1.718.31 +22;23 NASDAQ 2_J.J75.51 +9.48 NYSE 7,663.82 +69.18 s&PSOO I .241.48 +9.81 NIKK.fi(Tokyo) 12,692.04 O.OOWin· 
FTSE IOO(London) 5,359.30 +18.50 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
INTEL CP (INTC) -3.22 -0.84 25.25 
NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ) +0.56 +0.22 39.62 
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) +2.64 +0.19 7.39 
SUN MICROSYS INC (SUNW) +0.50 +0.02 4.00 
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +I. 14 +0.21 18.58 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND -0.45 -0.20 44.02 
I 0-YEAR NOTE -0.39 -0.16 41.23 
5-YEAR NOTE -0.25 -0.10 39.33 
3-MONTH BILL -0.03 -0.0 I 33.97 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.41 64.08 
GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +2.30 449.00 
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.00 82.03 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 09.6700 
EURO 0.8058 
POUND 0.5438 
CANADIAN$ 1.1780 
IN BRIEF 
Gas prices reach all-time highs 
LOS AN<;I\LES -Damage to Gulf Coast rnfineries and pipelines by Hurricane Katrina pushed retail gas prices to historic highs in the past two wonks, with self-serve regular aver­aging more than $3 a gallon for the first time nvnr, according to a nationwide survey rnleased Sunday. 
The weighted average price for all three grades surged more than 38 cents to nearly $:~.04 a gallon between Aug. 26 and Sept. 9, said Trilby Lundborg, who publishes the semi­monthly Lundberg Survey of 7,000 gas stations around the country. 
Self-serve regular averaged $3.01 a gallon nationwide, according to the survey. Midgrade was pegged at about $3.11, while premium­grade was at nearly $3.21. 
"That's all thanks to Katrina," Lundberg said. The spike occurred despite dedines in the '~ost of crude oil in recent weeks. 
The hurricane dncimated refineries along the (;u]f Coast. cutting 11 pnrcent of the nation's rdining capaeity for all petroleum products and shutting down essential pipelines to the East Coast and elsewhere, Lundberg said. 
Murdoch News makes aquisition 
NEW YOHK-Hupert Murdoch's News Corp. madn its latnst acquisition in the lntnrrwt sector Thursday, agreeing to pay $(,50 million in cash for online vid,w-game company ](;N l·:ntnrtainment Inc. 
Thn purchasn comes on the heels of' News Corp.'s $5HO million cash deal to acquire Intermix Media Inc., owner of' the popular social nntworking sitn. MySpace.com. 
Murdoch told inviistors in a conference (:all last month that he intends to make a strong push in building up his company's lntnrrwt prnsnnce, saying online businesses would be a "major part" of' the future growth of' his media eongionH1rate, which includes tlw Fox broa(kast network. the Twentinth Century Fox movie studios and I>irncTV. 
The acquisition of IGN, which is based in tlw San Francisco Bay Area, was made by Nnws Corp.'s newly for.rned online unit, Fox lntnractive Mndia.Scout Media. 
Clinton offers advice to China 
Former U.S. President urges toleration of economic dissent as wealth grows 
Associated Press 

BEIJING -China will 
have to tolerate more dis­
sent as its economy grows 
and opens up to the rest of 
the world, former President 
Clinton said Sunday. 

Clinton, who is on a fi.lllr­day visit to China. also said he would have raised the ease of a Chinese journalist imprisoned l'or allegedly providing statn secrets to fi1reigners when he spoke at a conference on Saturday but he had not been awarn of' the issue at the time. 
Clinton dnlivered the keynote address at a confer­nnce hosted by lnternnt powerhouse Yahoo Inc.'s nnw Chinnse partner, i\libaba.eom, at the eastern rnsort dty of' llangzhou. 
The French media watch­dog group Heporters Without Borders said Chinese authorities eonviet­ed the journalist Shi Tao, who had written an e-mail about media restrictions, using information provided by Yahoo. lie was sentenced to 10 years in prison under the country's vague state security laws. 
The group said eourt papers showed Yahoo Holdings (IIong Kong) Ltd., part of Yahoo's global net­work, helped Chinese inves­tigators trace the personal e-mail Shi sent containing his notes on the issue. 
Human rights activists had sent a letter to Clinton he said after speaking at a embassy. "I don't think con­Yahoo has defended its asking that he raise Shi's U.S. Embassy service com­flicting information and move, saying it is obliged to ease with his Chinese hosts. memorating the anniver­debate weakens a society. I comply with Chinese laws But at the conference on sary of the Sept. 11, 2001, think it strengthens it." and regulations. Saturday, the former presi­terror attacks on the United He added: "In the end Two of its biggest rivals, dent did not respond to States. . there'll have to be more Coogle Inc. and Microsoft questions from reporters Clinton did, however, freedom of expression Corp.'s MSN, previously about the case. challenge the Chinese gov­here." have come under attack for 
He explained this Sunday ernment's polices on dis­Shi, a former journalist censoring online news sitns by saying he was suffering sent. for the financial publication and Web logs, or blogs, fea­from a bad cold and "didn't "The more China grows Contemporary Business turing eontfmt that China's know about that issue until and diversifies economically News, was seized in communist government this morning." and opens up to the rest of November at his home in wants to suppress .in its 
"I would've raised it in the the world, the more there the northwestern province struggle to maintain control speech to the Internet peo­will have to be some room of Shanxi. of information in the bur­ple had I known about it," for dissent," he said at the Sunnyvale, Calif.-based geoning lntnrnet era. 

U.S. gave unnecessary 9/llloans 
Associated Press 

Washington -The government promised banks a hands-off approach in overseeing nearly $5 billion in Sept. 11 recovery aid to small businesses. What it got in return was numerous loans to com­panies that didn't need terror relief -or even know they were getting it, The Associated Press found. 
"llad we known it was 9/11 money, we would not have bor­rowed it," said John Adams, a vice president of Brankle Brokerage and Leasing in Marion, Ind., who didn't know until informed by AP that his company's $1.33 million loan had been drawn by his bank from a pro­gram created by Congress to help economic victims of the 2001 terror attaeks. 
"We would have chosen some other avenue. That money surely eould have been used by people who 
needed it more than we did," Adams said. 
llis company wasn't alone. From Dunkin' Donuts shops and florists to motorcycle dealers and chiroprac­tors, businesses nationwide said they were unaware their banks had lnnt them money from the low-inter­est, government-guaranteed Sept. 11 loan program. 
The records obtained under the Freedom of Information Aet also show that many other loan recipi­ents who made cases they were injured by Sept. 11 were far removed from the direct devastation of New York City and Washington, like a South Dakota country radio station, a Virgin Islands perfume shop and a Utah dog boutique. 
The pattern of lending left many at New York's Ground Zero seething, especially those who had trouble getting government assis­tance. 
"You havn .to take it back and give it to us. Even now, I could use it," fumed Mikn Yagudayev, who said the governnwnt offered him only $20,000 of tlw $70,000 loan he requested to rebuild t.lw hair salon l'lattened by tlw collapse of the World Trade Center's twin towers. 
The Small Business Administration. which oversaw the two Sept. 11 loan programs. said it first. learned of the problems through Al''s revinw and was weigh­ing whether an investigation was needed. But of'fkials also acknowl­edged tlu~y intended to targ,~t the post-SPpt. 11 aid broadly lwcause of the enormous impaet the attacks had on tho U.S. economy. 
"We started seeing business in areas you wouldn't think of_ tourism. crop dusting. trade and transportation.... So tlwrn were a lot of examples you wouldn't think of. at first blush," SBA 

---------------------~-~---------~-~~--~~~----------------~ 
page 8 Monday, September, 12, 2005
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Displaced 
continued from page 1 
Saint Mary's vice president for enrollment management. "We had received calls to the admissions office asking if we would accept displaced students." 
Meyer said initially some administrators were hesitant to accept additional students because they would have to start the semester already two weeks behind. 
However, after working with The National Catholic College Admissions Association and seeing the great need, Saint Mary's decided to accommodate stranded undergraduates. 
"I think we really felt from a moral standpoint that this was something that would make sense for us to do," Meyer said. 
College officials said they wanted to make the process as simple as possible and acknowledged the tremen­dous difficulties the incoming students had already faced. 
"Under the new policy, qualifying students will be admitted as visiting students, defined as those attending on a temporary basis until they're able to return to their · original place of enrollment," the College said in a state­ment. "Visiting student enrollment is based on the availability of classes and the college's ability to offer coursework suitable to her intended program of study." 
Displaced students will be charged tuition equal to that of their original institution, the statement said. If stu­dents had already paid tuition to their intended school, no additional tuition would be charged by Saint Mary's. 
Prior, originally from the Chicago suburb Lincoln Park, was looking forward to her first weekend at Tulane University when Hurricane Katrina bore down on New Orleans. 
"I had moved all of my stuff in on Saturday and by four we were told that we had to evacuate the school by six," Prior said. 
She and her fellow students were given three evacuation options -leave immediately with their parents, remain in the city with a local family member or friend or board a University-provided bus to .Jackson State University in Jackson, Miss. 
Almost nobody opted to 
I 
stay, Prior said. I "My parents and I went
I 
f• back to our hotel room and at 5 p.m. we decided to start driving," she said. With all her belongings still in her fifth floor dorm room, Prior and her parents mad\'l their way into Mississippi. They called their airline and arranged for flights out of Memphis, Tenn. to Chicago for the following day. Back home, Prior kept her­self updated on the status of the school through an emer­gency Web site the University established. The school remained largely dry as it is located uptown, she said. Once it was clear Tulane and the city of New Orleans 

would not reopen for some time, however, she and her family started to explore other options. 
"My mom and I started calling some schools and I had a friend who went to Saint Mary's last year and goes to Holy Cross this year, and I knew a lot of people who lived in South Bend," Prior said. 
She moved into the first floor of Holy Cross Hall and started classes Sept. 5. 
''I'm settling in and the girls here are really nice," Prior said. "The teachers have been really accommo­dating about starting two weeks late." 
Prior could not say whether she would remain at Saint Mary's permanently. nursing program allowed her 

''I'm don't really know but I to enroll. am hoping to see at least Coney was not available to w h a t comment, Tulane is but Meyer l i k e , " said she is 
Prior said. living off "They are "/ think we really felt from a campus 
opening moral standpoint that this w h i I e 
second attending
was something that would 
semester." S a i n t 
Coney is make sense for us to do.'' Mary's. a New "A little Orleans later in the
Dan Meyer
native and semester,
vice president for enrollment 
a nursing she will 
management
major at decide Holy Cross whether to College of officially N e w transfer and Orleans, a small commuting finish her degree here," school. Only a sudden open­College spokeswoman ing in Saint Mary's popul,ar Melanie McDonald said. 
The Notre Dame Law School has admitted two Tulane University law stu­dents who graduated from Notre Dame, and the Graduate School enrolled two students from other "Katrina-damaged institu­tions" as visiting students, according to a press release from the University. 
However, Notre Dame has not accommodated under­graduates from damaged col­leges because of "space limi­tations, heavy class enroll­ment and the rapid scholastic pace of the fall semester," the release said. 
Contact Megan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 


Monday,September 12 ,2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
Saturday, September 24, 2005 
Continue The Inauguration Celebration 
11:00 a.m. Start 3-Mile,6-Mile Runs Stadium Tunnel & 2-Mile Fun Walk 
N.D. Community $6.00 in advance $1 0.00 day of race Off campus participants $1 0.00 Register in Advance at RecSports Or download registration form @ recsports.nd.edu 
Advance registration ends @ 5:00 p.m. Fri., September 23 Race day ch~ck-in @ Legends 
For more information, ca/1631-61 00 or visit recsports.nd.edu 

page 10 The Observer + ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Monday, September 12, 2005 
Martin hits high note with film 
'Shopgirl' demonstrates actor's versatility as writer, producer 
Associated Press 
TORONTO -More so than at perhaps any other time in his career, Steve Martin has a film that showcases his versa­tility. 
"Shopgirl" started with Martin's prose, his best-selling novella about a depressive wallflower pursued by a rich older man and an awkward young slacker. It comes to the theater via Martin's own screenplay adaptation, which turned a highly internalized tale with minimal dialogue into a eamera-friendly story. 
It also features one of the finer in Martin's growing range of quiet, restrained per­formances as he fills the role of the lonely older man looking for love while settling for sex with a woman half his age. And as the producer, Martin helpAd stitch together a pitch­perfect cast that includes Claire Danes as the wallflower and Jason Schwartzman as the slacker. 
The only thing missing is the wild-and-crazy physical come­dy that has been a trademark of Martin's biggest successes, from "The Jerk" and "All of Me" to "Bringing Down the House" and "Cheaper By the Dozen." 
Dismissed by critics in the 1970s as an anti-intellectual, banjo-toting buffoon with a fake arrow through his head, Martin has undergone a grad­ual transformation since the mid-1980s to become an esteemed writer and per­former. 
"I think when the movie 'Roxanne' came out, which I also had written, I felt some­thing new that I never felt, which was respect," Martin said with a bonny laugh in an interview at the Toronto International Film Festival, where "Shopgirl" played in advance of its Oct. 21 theatri­cal debut. 
That continued through such films as "Planes, Trains & Automobiles," "L.A. Story," "Grand Canyon" and "The Spanish Prisoner" and a liter­ary career that has produced the play "Picasso at the Lapin Agile" and the novel "The Pleasure of My Company." 
"Also, as you get older, you gain a little more weight just by default because you've been around that long," said 
Martin,  who  turned  60 in  
August.  
"Shopgirl"  centers  on  

Mirabelle (Danes), a twen­tysomething clerk at a ritzy Beverly Hills store. Solitary and on medication for deep depression, Mirabelle finds herself ineptly romanced by a young bumbler (Schwartzman) and swept off her feet by a rich divorced man (Martin). 
Neither man proves quite what Mirabelle expected as the story winds through the euphoria of new romance, the sour taste of rejection and the human inclination to obsess over relationships gone wrong. 
"I often think all that think­ing we do and that emotional pain is some kind of evolution­ary flaw. Why? Why are we neurotic? What's the pur­pose?" Martin said. "It's some­thing like evolution going too far, and we end up so worried about things that don't matter. That's what love is. It's like this whole side effect of mating that got really complicated." 
"Shopgirl" is the first of a flurry of Martin films that con­tinues with the Christmas release "Cheaper By the Dozen 2," in which he reprises his role as patriarch to a family of 12 kids, and February's "The Pink Panther," in which he recreates Peter Sellers' bum­bling Inspector Clouseau. 

Even that broad range of films only scratches the sur­face of Martin's talent, said "Shopgirl" co-star Danes. 
"He's an incredibly dynamic person. I don't know if the general public is so conscious of that," Danes said. "He's a skillful, celebrated writer. He also collects art in earnest, and he's also an incredible musician. You should hear him play the ukulele. It's ridiculous what he's capable of." 
The soft-spoken, graciously polite Martin comes off like an elder statesman far removed from the wild-and-crazy guy he once portrayed. 
"The Steve Martin I met and got to know is not a wild-and­crazy guy," said "Shopgirl" director Anand Tucker. "He's an incredibly erudite, articu­late, quiet, I want to say even shy man. Very thoughtful. So in some ways, the Steve Martin you see in 'Shopgirl' is more the real Steve Martin now." 
Martin is braced for the day when writing could become his main job if lead movie roles dry up. 
''I've kind of looked at it in two ways. One, one day it'll just be over," Martin said. "On the other hand, you've got Walter Matthau. He found a way to be funny late in life. But to just take a role as a cor­porate executive who sets up the new young stars, I have no interest in that." 
'Exorcism' con1bines courtroon1 and horror 
Film bends genres to boost box office sales 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES -"The Exorcism of Emily Rose" bedeviled its competition in its box-office debut this weekend, hauling in $30.2 million with its mix of courtroom drama and classic horror. 
The film, inspired by true events, follows a Catholic priest on trial for negligent homicide following the death of a satani­cally possessed 19-year-old. 
Its PG-13 rating and cast, including Oscar nominees Tom Wilkinson, Laura Linney and Shohreh Aghdashloo, helped give it wide appeal, bumping last week's newcomer, "Transporter 2," from the No. 1 spot, according to studio esti­mates. 
Overall revenue for this weekend's top 12 films was up 16 percent from the same peri­od last year, said Paul Dergarabedian, president of box-office tracker Exhibitor Helations. 
"Transporter 2" fell to third place with three-day estimated ticket sales of $7.2 million. The action sequel dropped below "The 40-Year-Old Virgin," which held on to the No. 2 spot in its fourth week with $7.9 million, boosting its total domestic gross to $82.3 mil­lion. 
The critically panned "The Man," a buddy comedy that throws together federal agent Samuel L. Jackson and dental supply salesman Eugene Levy to solve a murder, opened in sixth place with $4.0 million. 
"An Unfinished Life," which stars Robert Redford, Morgan Freeman and Jennifer Lopez in the story of a rancher reluc­tantly reunited with his estranged daughter-in-law, opened well in limited release, with $1.0 million and a per theater average of $7,264. 
Meanwhile, "The Constant Gardener," starring Ralph Fiennes and Rachel Weisz and based on a John le Carre novel, moved to fourth place in its second week. The film took in $4.8 million, bringing its total to $19.1 million, while playing on fewer than half the number of screens given to "The Exorcism of Emily Rose." 
Dergarabedian attributed the popularity of "The Exorcism of Emily Rose" to its genre-bend­ing style. 
"It has a lot of very interest­ing elements that make it not your typical horror movie," he said. 
The film's debut marks the third biggest September open­er, behind "Sweet Home Alabama" and the first "Rush Hour." 
Rory Bruer, president of dis­tribution for Sony Pictures, called the opening "phenome­nal." 
"The movie cost us less than $20 million to make. We would have been very happy had the picture opened to $15 million," he said. • 
Raunchy summer comedies like "The 40-Year-Old Virgin"and "The Wedding Crashers" also continue to boost the sagging box office. 
Still, overall revenues for the year are down about 6 percent and attendance is down about 9 percent. 


Everything you need for high-speed Internet access. 
Sign up for the SBC Student Plan 
SBC Yahoo! DSl Express + Your local Access line 
as low as 
$ 
75* 
a month for a g-month term! 
'Ol11er monl/1/y ctwrges app/_y. 

Taxes, other charges and the Federal Universal Service Fund cost-recovery fee extra. For details of additional charges, restrictions and requirements, calll-866-472-7965 toll-free or visit sbc.com/u. SBC, the SBC logo and other SBC product names are trademarks and/or service marks of SBC Knowledge Ventures, l.P. and/or its affiliates. All other trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. ©2005 SBC Knowledge Ventures, L.P. All rights reserved. IN 
Monday,September 12 ,2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 
Nine Days of Prayer 
and solidarity with our sisters and brothers ·who have struggled through the traurna of Hurricane 
.Katrina 
A profound word of thanks to the entire Notre Dame con1munity­students, faculty, and staff-who helped to contribute for relief efforts over the weekend. 
The nine day_period of prayer and solidarity BEGINS TUESQAY, SEPTEMBER 6 
··':"::...#.:. 
and C01JJinues through 
WEDNESDAY,,,SEPTEMBER 14 
6:30 -6:45PM in the BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
Mass on the Feast of Our Lady of Sorrows, Thursday, September 15 at 5:15PM, will conclude the nine days of prayer. 

Campus Ministry 
page 12 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 12, 2005 
Coast Guard duties tnultiply 
Associated Press 
ABOARD JAYHAWK 6028 ­Petty Officer Wayne Weschrek thought he'd long ago put the dangerous stuff behind him. Yet here he was, aboard a Coast Guard heli­copter hovering at 50 feet. 
Weschrek, 28, clipped a metal cable onto his flight jacket, the instructor gave a final tug to his flight suit, and Weschrek slid out, riding the cable to the ground below at the Coast Guard's Cape Cod air station. 
Eight years ago, after his daughter was born, Weschrek transferred out of the Coast Guard's law enforcement side, from ship hoardings and drug interdic­tion missions, and became an environmental officer, a "duck scrubber" who con­tained oil spills and saved wildlife. 
Then came the 2001 terror­ist attacks. The Coast Guard became the nation's largest Homeland Security agency and Weschrek's duties changed again. He became a boarding officer, a member of the armed teams that search foreign ships entering U.S. ports. 
The Coast Guard's duties are growing faster than its ranks and officers like Weschrek who were saving seals, breaking ice or repair­ing harbor lights are being retrained. 
"If you're part of the Coast Guard today, you have to 

understand that we have two priorities: search and rescue, and security," said Capt. Peter Boynton, commander for all of Long Island Sound, which includes Weschrek's unit based at New Haven, Conn. "We still do everything else, but those are the main acts." 
Today, "eve-rything else" includes helping victims of Hurricane Katrina. Rescue crews on other Jayhawk heli­copters were among the first to respond and the Coast Guard is credited with saving thousands from rooftops of flooded homes in New Orleans. Coast Guard person­nel also run medical centers and head up shelter opera­tions. 

And on Friday, Coast Guard Vice Adm. Thad W. Allen was named to replace Federal Emergency Management Agency Director Michael Brown as commander of the New Orleans relief efforts. 
Deer hunter goes on trial for six murders 
Associated Press 

HAYWARD, Wis. -A deer hunter went on a rampage last fall, killing six hunters and wounding two others, after he felt insulted, a prosecutor told jurors Saturday. The defense said Chai Soua Yang felt physi­cally threatened by a group of white hunters who tormented him with racial slurs. 
Yang's attorney, Steve Kohn, said Yang, 36, of St. Paul, Minn., started shooting because he believed another hunter fired at him first. 
"You will hear him telling you 
-that he felt he was under siege," Kohn said during the opening day of the trial in Sawyer County. "He knows he was shot at by some very hostile individuals." 
Earlier, prosecutors said Yang fired first because he was angry the others were disrespectful to him and said they would report him to state· game wardens for trespassing, Assistant Attorney General Roy Korte said. 
"In the end, it was nothing more than anger," Korte said. 
Korte said Yang fired at least 20 shots, and the other hunters had only one gun and managed just one shot during the con­frontation in the northwestern Wisconsin woods last November. Four hunters were shot in the back, and one victim ran nearly 500 feet before being shot, Ko:rte said. 
Korte denied the hunters used racial slurs, though he said one hunter, Robert Crotteau, got angry and used profanity. Kohn described a different confronta­tion in which the white hunters repeatedly used racial slurs against Yang, an ethnic Hmong who came to the United States from a refugee camp in Thailand in 1980. 
'There is no question that race and racial prejudice played a part in the interplay between these individuals," Kohn said. 
·vang is charged with six counts of first-degree murder and three counts of attempted murder. If convicted, he faces mandatory life in prison. Wisconsin does not have the death penalty. 
Yang, dressed in khaki shirt and pants, showed no emotion as the attorneys gave their opening statements to the all-white jury. The trial is expected to last two weeks. 
Yang, a National Guard marks­man who has hunted deer since 1992, told investigators he got lost chasing a wounded deer and crawled into a tree stand on pri­vate land, where Terry Willers found him, the jury was told. Willers asked him to leave, and other hunters soon arrived and called Yang derogatory names, Kohn said. 
Crotteau, one of the property's owners, rushed to confront Yang, Kohn said. 
"He starts laying into him. Foul language, racial epithets, and he is physically threatened," Kohn said. 


APPLICATION MEETING 
FOR FALL 2006 & SPRING 2007 Tuesday, September 13, 2005 101 DeBartolo 6:30pm 
SOPHOMORES FROM ALL COLLEGES ARE WELCOME! 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~-­
Monday, September 12, 2005 The Observer + INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 13 
HONG KONG 
Hong Kong Disneyland suffers cultural setbacks 
liON(; KONC; -Many in llong Kong arP ready to givn Mickny Mousn a big hug for bringing l>isrwyland to tlwnr. But not. dog­lovPrs, shark-dPfPndPrs and fin~­works foPs. 
Tlw opposition may snem orlrl, in a ChinPSP city whnrP lin•works arP a lixturP, shark fin soup is hugPly popular. and stray dogs arn summarily dPali with as hPalth hazards. 
But Pight y1•ars ai'IPr t.hn British colony was rPlurrH'd to China, tlw ,·apit.alist city is mrwh f'nwr than llw Communist mainland. and advoc.acy groups an• vocal. 
To start wilh l.lw sharks: l>isrwylanrl said it. was nwrnly try­ing to honor lm~al I"Ustom hy snll­ing shark fin soup at wPddings in tlw park that opPns Monday. But PnVii"Oni!H'ntaJisi.S protPStPd that s h a r k pop ul alion s a r n lw in g dPplnlnd hy t.h1• fishing indus try, whirl! usually harks ofT llw fin hPfor·p tossing 1.111' fish bark int.o llw sna to dil~. 
A l.op-lnvnl decision was nHu.ln 
t.o takn l.l11• soup oiT tlw mnnu. said HohPrt lgnr, prnsir!Pnl. of tlw Walt Disrwy Co. 
l>isnny madn morn lwadlirws wiH'n it askPd dog-c~atehnrs to round tlp dozPns of stray mulls rwar lhn park, sending many of thnrn lo a cnrtain dnalh. 
And llwn tlwrn wt~n~ tho plans for nightly firnworks displays at t.hn park on Lant.au. llong Kong's largnst island. Nnighbors said thny wnrn worried about thn noisn and smokn, but thn park stuek with its original plans. 
In tlw months bnfor.n tho park's opnning, tho mndia somntimns soumlnd as though Disrwy wnrn building a shoddy nuelnar plant, rathnr than a rhtwrful amuse­mont park with cuddly cartoon charartnrs and a pink Slnnping Bnauty Castln with a mountain backdrop. 
I long Kong Disnnyland hneamn a targnt bm~ausn it involvml high­profiln marriagn of big business and I long Kong's govnrnmnnt. thn higgnst invnstor in the US$3 bil­lion park, said David Kelrhum. a publi1~ rnlalions export. 
"As lhn Australians say, 'Thn tall poppy gnts tlw ehop.' and Dis111~y·s high profile worldwidn ami tlw lnad-up to thn opnning has mnant that many an~ looking for ways t.lw vnnturn will fail," Ketrhum said. 
Miehanl DnColynr, profossor of governmnnt and intnrnal.ional st.udins at Hong Kong Baptist Univnrsily, said Disnnyland apparPntly undnrnstimatod nnvi­ronnwntal earns in tho rrowdnd territory _of about 7 million peo­pln. 
"If they thought that a huge commitment of government monny would cushion them from public criticism, I think they will, and snnm already, to be discover­ing that is not, dnlinitnly not, tho ease," DnColynr said. 

NORTHERN IRELAND 
Belfast tnilitants riot in streets 
Associated Press 
BELFAST -Protestant nxtrnmists attaeknd police and British troops for a second straight night Sunday, littering streets with rubble and burned-out vnhicl1~s in widn­sprnad violP-tH;n sparked by anger over a rnslrict.ed paradP. Morn than 40 policn worn wounded in the weekend mayhem. 
Crowds of masked men and youths confronted polien baeknd by British troops in doznns of" hard-line l'roti~Stant districts in Belfast and several ollwr towns. Gunmnn opennd firn in at lnast two parts of thn capital Sunday night. 
Nobody was reported shot, but shraprwl from homemade grnnadns wounded a half­doznn offieors during dashns Sunday night with a 700­strong mob in nast Bnlrast, raising tim numbnr or polien wounded over tlw past :H> hour·s to abovP 40. 
l'olicn advised drivers to av1iid Prot.nstant parts of thn dty. whom thousands bloeknd roads and lobbnd t.hn grnnadns a rangn or othor oqjncts at poliee nquippnd with lwlmets, body armor and llamn-retardantju m psuits. 
Ollieers doused crowds with massive water eannons and fired sevnrctl hundred blunt­nosed plastic bullets. 
Chief Constable llugh Orde, commander of Northern Ireland's mostly Protestant police, blamed thn Orangn Order -a lngal brothnrhood with more than 50,000 mnm­bnrs -for inspiring lhn riots. The violencn bngan Saturday when polien prnvented Orangemen from parading rwar a hard-linn Catholic part of wnsl Bnllitst. 
But polien and analysts daimnd tlw man~h providnd a prntnxl. for Northnrn lrnland's two major o ull awn d Protnstant paramilitary groups, tho Ulster Ddensp Association and tlw Ulstnr Volunteer Forrn, to launch a pre-planned n~bnllion against policn authority. Tlwir rurrnnl. dnsirn for strnnt mayhem rnflncts tlwir rwar-total dis­eonnnetion from llw province's decade-old pna.cn pt·o,~nss. 
Thf~ UDA and UVF arn sup­posnd to bn observing CIHLSP­fims and disarming in support of Nortlwrn Ireland 's 199H pna1~n w:cord, jusllikn tho out­lawnd Irish Hnpublican Army rootnd in militant Catholic arnas. 
But whiln thn fi{J\ has buill a major basn of support through its Sinn Fein party and has grown central to ongoing negotiations on Norlhnrn Ireland's futuro. the Protnstant paramilitary groups havP failed to win nleetoral support and barely rngistnr in political talks. Instead they wield power through criminal graf"t backed by occasional intimi­dating shows of loren. 
These days, while li{J\ voter-ans arn being nneouragnd to pursue llwir aims through pol­ities and appnar poised within weeks to resunw disarma­ment, tho UVF and LJJ)A an~ openly lighting to keep l"onlrol of" criminal empires-a f"utun• ehallongnd by t.lw police and llw widnr poan~ procnss. 
Ordn said nwm])('rS or both tlw UVF and LJDA. whirh winld authority i11 dil"f"prelll l'rot1~stant distrirts of" lklf"ast, Wl'l"l' orchestrating allarks. liP dt.nd llw riotPrs' acn~ss lhis wenknnd to stockpiles of gaso­lirw-llllnd bott!Ps, hom1•madP ·grPnadPs and assault riJ"IPs. l'oli1~e sPiZI'd a bomb-making f'adory and S1won firearms during llw riots. 
"Wp arl' VPry lul"ky WI' do not have dead oiTicors lhis morning. It's a lrihutP lo l.hP way llwy n•sporHIPd and it's a tributP to t.hPir l.al"lks," OreII' said bnfon~ riot.i ng rnsumPd Sunday 11ighL 
In lllll' parl.il"ularly blatant sign of outlawed groups · involvnnwnt. masked and arnwd mnn stoppPd l"ars Su11day and rhPI"kPd driwrs · linmsos at <~ polir.n-slyln road chnt~kpoint rwar tlw Mount Vnrnon nnighhor)wod in north Bnlf"ast, a LIVF stronghold. 
Such dnmonstrations ­which havo been r.arrind out hy both tlw IHA and Protestant outlaws during provious !lash­points of" Nortlwrn lroland's 53-ynar-old eonf"liet -are designnd to mock poliee authority. 

------------~------~---------------------------------------------------------------, 
page 14 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Monday, September 12, 2005 
Artny general is face of control in ravaged Ne-w Orleans 
Lt. Gen. Russel Honore told troops to turn down their weapons in respect for a stranded, stunned population 
Associated Press  His daughter and friends live in New Orleans. As a  one John Wayne dude down nere that can get some stuff  from an Atlanta base where he trains half the nation's troops  says. He likes the music of Tina  
NEW ORLEANS -To troops,  child, he spent two weeks at  done."  for Iraq duty.  Turner and B.B. King, along  
he's the "Hagin' Cajun,"  an  Charity  Hospital,  where  The 6-foot-2 three-star gen­ Honore said it was as if he  with country western tunes.  
affable but demanding gener­ Katrina's flood waters trapped  eral points out that John Wayne  entered  a  football game  to  He says he'd like to learn gui­ 
al barking orders to resusci­tate a drowning city. To his  doctors and patients, after he was hit in the head with a  was an actor. ''I'm a soldier. · You get what you see," he said.  coach in which it was the "end of  tar someday. In his garden are  
country, he's an icon of  baseball bat. Stepping into a crisis that  With his thin mustache and black beret, Honore has  the first quarter and you're down  pumpkins, toma­toes, beans,  
leadership in a land hun­gry for a leader after  has drawn criticism of leaders at every level of government, Ho"nore was praised for his compassionate approach to  become one of the most visible figures of Katrina. On Sunday he appeared on both CBS' "Face the Nation" and on CNN's  25 to nothing." "You can't win the first quarter in a disaster. It's  "He's intolerant of lacklucster performance. "  peas, potatoes and peppers. He loves to cook and shares his veg­ 
a  hurricane  residents and his colorful  "Late  Edition,"  where  he  impossible to do  etables  with  
exposed the nation's vul­nerability to  bursts of instructions to troops, delivered in a Louisiana drawl with spits of  defended giving food and water to people who are refusing to leave New Orleans.  it. You got to do the best you can. But you better  Charles Wilhelm retired general  troops at barbe: cues. This week, he'll  
disasters.  Honore  profanity for emphasis.  "Right now, we want to make  win  the  next  reunite with one  
With  a  "He's a man of action," said  sure that we're taking care of  quarter, take eare  of his four chil­ 
can-do attitude and a cigar in hand, Army Lt. Gen. Russel  Maj. Gen. Bill Cald-well, com­manding gener­ the people that are alive, and that we are  of the evacuees," he says. "If the  dren. a returning  son from  
Honore arrived after Hurricane Katrina and direct­ al of the 82nd Airborne  "He's a man of action.  treating them with dignity  first quarter taught us any­thing, your plan is a plan but it  Iraq after a year of duty. He also has a grandchild.  
ed troops to point weapons down in respect for a stunned and stranded population lack­ing food, electricity and safe­ Division in Fort Bragg, N.C. "He knows the area, understands the  He knows the area, understands the people and doesn't take no for  and respect, and we're pro­viding food and water for  needs to be executed." On paper, Honore's authority is limited to the military but last week body recovery began  He gets quiet when he talks about lives he has crossed in New Orleans, like the woman carrying twins, one slipping  
ty.  people  and  an answer.  them," Honore  after he complained loudly to  from each arm.  
Each morning, Honore (pro­ doesn't take no  told CNN.  those responsible for removing  He feels lucky to be a gener­ 
nounced AHN'-ur-ay) boards a Blackhawk helicopter at Camp Shelby in Mississippi, 100 miles north of New Orleans,  for an answer." Honore has won over even some of the gov­ Bill Caldwell commanding general  He views Katrina as an enemy that pulled a "clas­ them. "He's intolerant of lackluster performance," said Retired Gen. Charles E. Wilhelm. "He  al, despite "living in a fish­bowl." The hurricane, he says, reminds him life is fragile and  
for a humanitarian mission as  ernment's  sic  military  has high standards and he's a  makes him glad he passed on  
head of the military's Joint  harshest critics, including New  maneuver," speeding toward  sworn enemy of mediocrity."  more  lucrative pursuits to  
Task Force Katrina.  Orleans Mayor Ray Nagin, who  land with overwhelming force,  Outside the Superdome one  serve his country.  
Honore was born at home  blasted the Bush administra­ surprising and paralyzing the  day with flood waters in rapid  "''d rather be in the middle  
57 years ago during a hurri­cane, his mother and an uncle  tion's initial response to his city's disaster.  city and countryside and knock­ing out communications, elec­ retreat, Honore grew impatient when his truck was blocked.  of the game, playing hard with little hope of winning  
always told him. He grew up  "He came off the doggone  tricity, water and roads in a  "There's room to get by there.  than to be an observer," he  
poor in Lakeland, La., north­west of Baton Rouge, with 11  chopper, and he started cussing, and people started  "disaster of biblical propor­tions."  Let's go!" "I don't intentionally try to  says. No one calls him "Ragin'  
siblings, once winning a 4-H  moving," Nagin told a radio  In a journey slowed by fallen  be tough. As long as the job's  Cajun" to his face.  
contest with the family's lone  station. "I give the president  trees,  Honore  headed  to  getting done, I have nothing  "But the troops like it, so  
cow, Weasel.  some credit on this. He sent  Mississippi after the hurricane  to  say but praise," Honore  why not?" he adds.  


~------~-------~--------------------------------~-------------------------------------­
Monday, September 12, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 15 
Nation n1ourns fourth anniversary of Sept. 11 attacks 
Memorial services held in New York City, throughout United States to remember those who Lost their Lives 
Associa ted Press 
NEW YOBK-As if they w1we writing lntters to a long-lost l'rinnd. tlw brotlwrs and sisters of Snpt. II victims walked to liH• mierophorw, lookPd to the sky and tearfully told thnir sib­lings what had happened in tho world since tlwy died. 
They talk1Hl about babies born. children growing up. and how lllLH'.h the vktims W!H"e still missed. 
"II' you wnrn lwn~. you'd be so proud. so proud of Gabe and Madeleinn," Francis Hoffman told his brotlwr Stephen. a 36­ynar-old Cantor Fitzgerald bond broknr. 
"If it's a boy in I>neember, we'rn taking your name," said Nancy Brennan-Poulis, Peter Brnnnan 's brollwr. 
The siblings were among morn than 600 pnopln who read thn names of the 2, 7 49 victims who died four ynars ago when hijacked jetliners crashed into tim World Trad11 Center. Tears sometimes swallowed their words as they read the names, and rn I a ti vos in tlw crowd bowed their )wads and sobbed as the siblings spoke. 
"You're still our hero. Please knep watching over us," Elizabeth Ahearn said to her brother, Fire Lt. Brian Ahearn. 
Several times, the brothers and sistnrs came in groups ­sometimes six or seven large ­to honor their loved one, all huddling together to say their namn. Somn blnw kisses to the sunny, paln-blun sky, whiln oth­~~rs said over and over, "We love you. Wn miss you." 
"We know you're keeping everyonn laughing up in heav­en," said Kathleen Pslrogianes to her brother, Thomas Cahill. a Cantor Fitzgnrald trader who was 36 wlwn he died. 
As the namns of the dead wnrn read. weeping mournnrs filed down a ramp to a reflect­ing memorial pool at the floor of thn sitn. which remains vir­tually nmpty four years after tlw attack torn a hole in tho Now York skyline. Familins l'illed tho water with red. orange and yellow roses, some shaking as they inseribnd dedi­cations on the wooden edge of the pool. 
The four-hour ceremony came as Hurricane Katrina left Americans once again strug­gling with a catastrophe that eaught the nation unprepared and left thousands of citizens dead and grieving. 
Mayor Miehael Bloomberg opened with words of condo­lence for those devastated by Katrina and the terrorist bomb­ings in the London Underground. 
"To Americans suffering in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, our deepest sympa­thies go out to you this day," Bloomberg said. 
In New Orleans, New York firefighters helping with the relief effort gathered around a makeshif't memorial for their fallen comrades, accepting the gift of a bell from a nearby church whose steeple was destroyed in the storm. 
Nnw York Fire Commissioner Nicholas Seoppetta said at a ceremony in Brooklyn that his firefighters who have gone to the Gulf Coast are "doing what this department does best. and that is saving lives." 
"An entire city has been vir­tually destroyed ... but four years later, we are in a position to respond with the same gen­erosity of spirit which was shown to us," he said. 

In Shanksville, Pa., about 1,000 people attended a memo­rial service for the 40 passen­gers and erew who died when Flight 93 crashed into a field after those aboard struggled with the al-Qaida hijackers 11y­ing it toward Washington. 
In Washington, President Bush marked the anniversary with his wife on the South Lawn, and throngs of people marched in remembrance of the attacks and in tribute to troops fighting overseas. 
The ground zero ceremony 
paused for moments of silence at 8:46 a.m., the time at which a hijacked jetliner crashed into the north tower, at 9:03 a.m., the moment a second plane struck the south tower, at 9:59 a.m., when the south tower fell and at 10:29 a.m., when the second tower collapsed. 
Secretary of State Condoleezza Riee, Gov. George 
E. Pataki, former Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and New Jersey Gov. Richard Corley all addressed the crowd. 
"We all stand together to help each other and to help those who need our help in the future," Giuliani said. "We remember forever all the brothers and sisters that wo lost on that day." 
For several family members, their messages became politi­cal. Many prayed to suceeed in efforts to provide a fitting memorial at the site, a refer­ence to the battle over an inter­national museum of frendom planned for ground zero. Some families say the museum would politicize the site and overshad­ow the memorial. 
Parents and grandparnnts read the victims' names at ground zero last year, while ehildren's voices were heard in 2003. A selection of politidans, relatives and others read the names on the first anniversary. 
Try on a VANGUARD CAREER. It could be a PERFECT FIT. 
FORTUNE" Make an easy transition from school to work at Vanguard, a company that 100 BEST invests heavily in talent from all majors. Ifyou're still in school, investigate our 
COMPANIES~ TO WORK FOR~ paid summer College to Corporate Internship Program, which could lead to full-time employment. Ifyou're graduating and want a series of in-depth rotations through a division of the company, consider our specialty programs in management, finance, information technology, or client relations. Or take on a rewarding, team-oriented Associate position in Client Relations, Processing, or Finance. For consideration, submit your resume online at Go IRISH or visit us at one of the following venues: 
ENGINEERING INDUSTRY DAY BUSINESS CAREER FAIR 
Tuesday, September 13,from Sp.m. to 9p.m., Wednesday, September 14,from 4p.m. to 8p.m., at the Joyce Center at the Joyce Center 


To apply for positions in Valley Forge, PA, just outside Philadelphia, Scottsdale, AZ, or Charlotte, NC, visit 
www.vanguardcareers.com 
Vanguard is an Equal Opportunity Employer. 
l'lln#uarJ o1.nd thr rJup ii~Rn ~~ tradcmo~.rks nfThe Vanguard Group, Inc. All nther marla are the exclusive property nftheir mpccliVt: owners. ()2005 The Vanguard Group, Inc. AU rights mcrvtd. Vomguar\i Marketing Corporation, Distributcn. 
THE OBSERVER 

IEWPOINT
page-16 Monday, September 12, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
The pursuit of ignorance 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gonumukkala SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kdley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CONTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAl INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 

ADVERTISING (574) 63 I -6900 observad@nd.edu EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BuSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

OBSERVER ONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudents ofthe Universiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Editorial conrenr, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through lerrers is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom rtgarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Editor in ChiifClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

ThC" Observer (USPS ':i<J9 2-4000) is pnhli~hcd Mtmdayrhrough Friday ctxtept during exam .1nd vacarion p~riod!l. Asubscriprion to The Ob~erver is $100 for 011e acWcmic year; $5'5 fnruucsc:nu:Mcr, 
The ()~rver i.s published .u: I'OSTMASfER 024 So~,~.th Dining Hall Send J.d~ co-erections to: NQrrc O..me. IN 46SS6·0n? Tht Observer Pc:riodi<:al posugc: p;Ud <H Notre Damt r.o.&xn9 .md addirivno~l m.tiling otfii:Q. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame. lN 46556-0779 
The Observer is ll member of the &$oc1;Ued Press. All t~roducuon righcs are nxrved. 
Three years ago, New York Times reporter Adam Cohen wrote a column titled "If the Big One Hits, New Orleans Could Disappear." In his remarkably insightful article, he noted that America's most "cul­turally rich city" was also "a disaster waiting to happen" because of its pre­carious position below sea level and in between Lake Pontchartrain and the Mississippi River. 
In other words, as Cohen wrote in 2002, "If a bad hur­ricane hit ... the city could fill up like a cereal bowl, killing tens of thousands and laying waste to the city's architectural heritage. If the Big One hit, New Orleans could disap­pear." 
Well, the Big One did hit, and New Orleans did fill up like a cereal bowl. Worst of all, when this horrific episode in American history is all said and done with, tens of thousands of people could very well turn out to have lost their lives at the hands of "the Big One." The problem is, however, that the anarchy that has engulfed New Orleans for the past two weeks could have easily been prevented. 
As Cohen noted in his prophetic story, Washington could have followed the lead of the Italian government, which invested over $3 billion into saving its own drowning city-Venice. In New Orleans, this could have been accom­plished by various methods, including building a 30-foot wall across the city to hold back lake water or investing money into raising lake levees and sav­ing the eroding coastal wetlands. 
Instead, according to Cohen's article, the head of the New Orleans Office of Emergency Preparedness at the time, 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

Terry Tullier, merely chose to give his citizens disaster preparedness presen­tations in which he started by saying, "When the Big One comes, many of you will die -let's get that out of the way." (If that was the best disaster prepared­ness plan that the city could come up with, then maybe the New Orleans gov­ernment was already suffering from one too many Hurricanes -the drink, not the storm, that is.) 
Of course, ignoring warnings has become an unofficial American pastime as of late, so it comes as no surprise that the Big Easy wasn't at all prepared to handle "the Big One." 
Only a week after the Sept. 11 terror­ist attacks, it was uncovered that the FBI had learned in 1995-and several dozen times afterwards -that terror­ists with ties to Osama bin Laden had planned to hijack commercial planes and slam them into major U.S. targets, including buildings in New York and Washington. Of course, those warnings were largely ignored until after the fact. 
Similarly, as the body count began to grow in Iraq, America learned that its government had been warned numer­ous times that their reasons for getting tied up in this Middle Eastern reincar­nation of Vietnam -namely, that Saddam Hussein possessed weapons of mass destruction and had ties to Osama bin Laden-were false. Naturally, these warnings were ignored until it was too late as well. 
Even with less-pressing issues, the United States seems bent on staying true to its "ignore it, then deplore it" outlook on life. For several years now, Americans have been inundated with warnings about over-eating and the health risks related to obesity. Eating fast food on a regular basis is like beg­ging to be buried in an extra-wide cas­ket, and everyone knows it. Nevertheless, recent studies have shown that eight percent of the American population is sucked into McDonalds every single day of the year! Not only does this explain why they stopped counting how many hamburg­ers they've sold on their signs, but it also provides another sickening exam­ple of U.S. citizens ignoring a blatant warning and suffering because of it. 
In each of these cases, someone of authority has told America not to push the red button, and each time, without fail, Uncle Sam has stuck out his pudgy white hand and pushed defiantly. No wonder the rest of the world considers this country to be a bunch of cocky, self­serving imperialists. 
The real question, of course, becomes why. Why does America do it? Who are we to laugh in the face of experts and go about living our lives as if we were somehow above the mundane triviali­ties of being a human? 
Who was Michigan to sit around in their Big House with their No. 3 ranking and inept defense and expect to keep up with what some have called the "nastifi­cation" of Notre Dame football? 
It seems as if no matter how many cities are destroyed, no matter how many buildings collapse, no matter how many soldiers are killed, no matter how many overweight people die of heart attacks, and no matter how many Wolverines go limping off the football field, America will never alter its pat­tern of ignoring the evidence first and pointing fingers (at federal agencies, former presidents, British people, fast food corporations or video replay refer­ees) later. That's just the American way, and one day, it's going to be our down­fall. 
But don't say I didn't warn you. 
Joey Falco is a junior American Studies major. His column appears every other Monday. He can be contact­ed at jfalco@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports 
OBSERVER POLL

Nicole Zook Matt Puglisi Kelly Meehan Ken Fowler Peter Ninneman Chris Khorey What color are you wear­Mary Kate Ryan Kiefer ing to the home football 
Malone Scene 
game this Saturday? 
Viewpoint Molly Griffin Joey King illustrator (iraphics Graham Ebetsch 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
Matt Hudson 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It is proof of a base and low mind for one to wish to think with the masses or majority, merely because the majority is the majority. Truth does not change because it is, or is not, believed by a majority ofthe people." 
Giordano Bruno philosopher 


THE 0HSERVER 

IEWPOINT
Monday, September 12, 2005 page 17 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Advertising Notre Dame 
Preserving faith 
I don't mad The Observer's Viewpoint sm:tion often, and Friday's disappointing presentation reminded me why. I am sad­dened to learn that The Observer's edito­rial stan· and some students have become so pretentious and self-aggrandizing that they were "insulted" by Notre Dame's "Candle" television Spot. 
Although the ad doesn't strike me as particularly brilliant, I think it does a fair job of d1mwnstrating that Notre Dame is a school that recognizes that we are not self-made. It seems the editorial stafl' is too prnoccupied with proving to their friends in the Ivies that Notre Dame isn't just a "football school" and, unfortunately for thnm, all that religious stuff doesn't eorne oiT as impressive either. 
It's too bad that Mr. Kearns and his friends in the theology department spend thnir tinw laughing at the simple piety of us "candle lighting" Catholics, but the Notre Dame I love rneognizes that there is profound thnology at work in a simple "candln." Maybe he should take a few dasses with Profnssor Cavadini or Father Daley, I'm sure they at least can help him stop that nasty laughing habit, if not also 
Ad shows ND's shortcomings 
What kind ofimage is Notrn Dame selling in the nnw television advnrtisement'? A uni­versity that providns highnr ndueation'? I think not, bncausn it dons not say anything about Notre Damn's aeadnmie programs. It dons not highlight the wonderful faculty and fadlity wn h<tVn. It dons not say what the S!~hool's mission statement is. Instead, the eomnwrdal successfully sold an image of hornogonoity. It perfectly dnpkl<; thnlaek of diversity at Notrn Damn, which not only dis­muragns those who cannot identify with the girl in tho video to apply, but it also shows disrnspmt to the minoritins at Notre Dame since they arn nowhere to be foun·d in thi'> :m-s1~mnd telovision advertisement that is supposed to mprnsent Notrn Dame. 
In the comnwrdal, the whito 1-,>irl who livns in a middlo-upper dass suburban nnighbor­hood prays that she will get admitted to Notrn Damn. What kind of students will this vidno attrad'? Definitely not those who grow up in innnr cities and eonstantly struggle with the innquality in the distribution of education­al n~sourees and yet manage to score high on the SATs and maintain a 3.8. Dnfmitnly not tho African American studenl'> who study so hard just so that they can be the first ones in thnir lilmilies to attend college. Definitely not .Jews or atheisl<; who believe that Notre Damn olli~rs them what they want academi­cally and yet are skeptical about the differ­ence of their religious backgrounds. These studenl'> are ditfnrnnt and yet they are the kind of studenl<; that Notrn Dame daims it strivos to reach out to. llowever, not only does this nnw commereiallail to reach out to stud1ml'> with a divnrse background, it sends a dear mnssage telling thorn not to apply bo,:ausn we don't want tl10se who hold dill"er­ont opinions and thny will nnver fit in. 
In addition, when Julie Flory, an assistant din~dor at the Ollice of News and lnfiJrmation, states, "It's hard to crall ames­sage so perliJct that no one can dislike it," she neglects the minorities on campus. They are not Catholic, white or rieh, and ynt they have d10snn to come to this school for the higher ndueation opportunities it provides. They are part of the studnnt body and yet they are not rnm).,'Tlized by the administration. Indeed thn majority of Notre Dame studcnl<; arc from white, Catholic, middle-upper class families; however, that does not moan Asians, Mormons, gays or p110ple whose parents have three jobs just to kenp them in school do not nxist here. Ofumtimes these marginaliznd ~-,rroups are only seen but not heard on cam-helping him to see that theology is more than smarty pants sniggering. 
The "Candle" ad may not show every­thing about Notre Dame. It was not meant to. I think it does show one thing brilliant­ly however, and that is that at Notre Dame we recognize more than just the academic and athletic success of our students, alumni and faculty. We recognize more than the rankings and statistics. We rec­ognize more than the avant-garde aca­demic (and theological) posturing. We rec­ognize that all of reality, even getting into Notre Dame, is a sign of the Mystery who became a man continuing his saving pres­ence in history. 
I am grateful for students like the young woman in New Jersey. I hope that her four years of study at Notre Dame strengthen this aw1,1reness. And I think there is still hope for Mr. Kearns and the editorial staiT of The Observer. The Mystery is wait-' ing to encounter them too. 
Stephen Sanchez alumnus Class 
of 200 I 
pus. In this case, thny arc 
not even seen in this 
commercial, as if Notre 
Dame dons not approve 
of their presence. 

Notre Dame tries hard to create an image of "We arn ND." Everyone in this big Notre Dame filmily is happy and well taken care of. However, who is exduded in this sehool is evident. Somn may argue that it is white, rkh and Catholic studenl<; arn Notre Dame legacies and 
Notre Dame must carry on this tradition. Sure, Notre Dame can accnpt any kind of students it wanl<>, but these stu­dents will not always live in the Notre Dame bubble. When they graduate, they will realize that there are many different kinds of people in real­ity. Not everyone shares the same world­views, not everyone votes for Bush, not everyone is heterosexual, not everyone goes to church and not everyone can afford foot­ball tickets. 
Diversity has been one thing that Notre Dame tries to increase in the past decade because the school sees the importance of diversity and the advantages it brings. I can­not imagine how this commercial will hurt the efforts and awareness that have been made by students who care about diversity issues. One thing that was right about the commerdal is how flawlessly it illustrates the lack of diversity in thn student body, as Matt Storin, the associate vice president for News and Information stated -"]The video] shows what Notre Dame L<>, what it strives to be and how it is different from other universities" ­Notre Dame is unique because there is no othnr school that betrays il<; mission to increase diversity and neglects the marginal­ized like Notre Dame does. I wonder when Notre Dame will truly embrace diversity as it says it does. I can only hope for the day when everyone -Latinos, bisexuals and Buddhisl'> -arn truly considered part ofthe Notre Dame family. 
Shan-Jan Sarah Liu Senate Diversity Committee Chairperson 
senior 
PasqueriUa West Sept. 8 
Ad for core constituents 
Perhaps the video advertisement shown during the Pittsburgh game is intended for a very specific audience which has been long neglected. The ad was not designed to attract prospective students or evnn their parents. There is certainly no shortage of applicants. Nor was it intended to demonstrate how the University is on a par academically with certain aspirational peers, or how much the University and its alums are contributing to make a better world. It is good to see that we don't sense the need to say that. Perhaps the ad is intended for that core constituency who believe that the messagn has been too subdued in recent times, saying to them yes, we are uniquely Notre Dame and proud of our traditions. I am thrilled that our new leaders aro willing to shout that boldly, not only to a neglected constituency but to thn world, on national television. 
Jack Fremeau alumnus Class of 1971 Sept. 9 
Spot sends wrong message 
The Notre Dame "Candle" video, shown during the ND­
Pitt game, was an embarrassment to the University. First, the "institutional spot" is theologically unsound. Its message-if you light enough candles, the payoff will be admission to Notre Dame-is what the Gorman theologian Dietrich Bonhoefer called the myth of "cheap grace." It is a simplistic message unworthy of 
a university aspiring to greatness. One doubts that Notre Dame's theology department, or its Campus Ministry, would support tl~e theology underlying tho 
video. It is unimaginable that Georgetown University or Boston College, Notre Dame's peer institutions in the Catholic academy, would promotn themselves in this fashion. 
Second, the video mischaracterizes Notre Dame's admissions process. From our own experiences, we know that admissions officnrs base their decisions on academic achievement-not on whom one knows, or how many candles one lights. The process is professional and eorreet. It is an insult to 
the Admissions Of!'ice to suggest othnrwise. 
Over 11,000 students apply annually to ND; fewer than 4,000 are accepted. Did God turn a deaf oar to the prayers of the other 7,000 applicants'? 
We speak from expnrienen. having had one son admitted to ND and another not, plus a daughter applying this year. Our bnlief' is, and our prayer is, that God will show our children, and us, what direction He wishes their lives to take-and that they will have 
the courage and grace to accept God's will in their lives -whether or not that ineludes a Notre Dame ndiu:ation. The video was creatnd by slick PH professionals who have 
little appreciation of what Notre Damn is really about. That the University would allow it to be shown to a national audi­
ence is very disappointing. Those who defend the video on thn grounds that they were merely pointing out the University's uniqun Catholic character haven't a clue about what being "Catholic" really is. 
Kevin Kearney alumnus Class of 1972, Masters ofTheology 1976 Rector of Sorin Hall 1977-1978 Mary Mullaney alumna Class of 1973, law class of 1977 Sept. I 0 
Implications are demeaning 
Whoever created and, worse, approved the insulting new 30-second ND ad understands neither Notre Dame nor Catholicism. It dnmeans our reli­gion and our University. A Notre Dame "higher education" does not mean an Admissions Office sitting around until God inspires it to admit thn stu­dent who piled up the most prayers. The world trivializes what a great university like Notre Dame could possibly mean by calling itself a "Catholic" university. How awful when the University itself pays for that trivialization! After 45 years on the faculty, I am ashamed. 
Donald P. Costello Professor Emeritus (retired) Department of English Sept. 9 
THE OBSERVER ­
CENE

page 18 Monday, September 12, 2005 
RECIPE TIPS 
Late night snacking 
slather the bread with the garlic
By MAUREEN MALLOY 
sauce. Using a ladle or spoon, cover Scene Writer 
the bread with tomato sauce (be sure to cover to the edges to prevent burn­ing). Spread about 1/4 of the mush­
·Sometimes the best part about a fun rooms and mozzarella, and 1/2 cup night out is the cheesy breadsticks (about 20 slices) of pepperoni across and pepperoni pizza that you and your each loaf section and sprinkle with friends will inevitably order at 2 a.m. oregano. Bake until all the cheese is But if you can rattle off Papa John's melted and the bread is golden brown, number by heart or are listed as a about 8 to10 minutes. Serve immedi­preferred customer at Domino's, it ately. Yields four to six servings. might be time to mix up your late Recipe courtesy The Hot Truck, night feasting. Ithaca, New York. 
Instead of reaching for the phone book, serve up one or more of these Sweet Nutty Popcorn Treats treats to your friends, and you'll be almost as popular as Ben & Jerry. 12 cups popped popcorn These recipes are easy to prepare and 1 1/2 cups sugar can be made ahead of time or 1/2 cup corn syrup whipped up quickly when you get 1/2 cup water home. 3 tablespoons unsalted butter 
6 ounces semisweet chocolate, Cold Sesame Noodles chopped 
1 teaspoon vanilla extract 3 tablespoons soy sauce 1/2 cup sliced toasted almonds 2 tablespoons rice vinegar or white­1/2 cup roasted unsalted peanuts 
wine vinegar 1 cup white chocolate chips 1/2 teaspoon dried hot red pepper flakes, or to taste Lightly grease a large bowl and 2 tablespoons firmly packed brown place the popcorn in it. 
sugar or granulated sugar, or to taste In a large saucepan, combine the 1/2 cup creamy peanut butter sugar, corn syrup, and water and cook 1 tablespoon Oriental sesame oil over medium heat to the soft ball 1 teaspoon grated peeled fresh gin-stage, 235 to 238 degrees Fahrenheit 
ger on a candy thermometer. Add the but­1/2 cup chicken broth tet and when melted, stir in the 1 pound linguine or lo mein noodles chocolate and vanilla. chopped scallion and cucumber Very carefully, slowly pour the hot 
strips for garnish chocolate mixture over the corn, stir­ring to prevent from lumping. 
In a saucepan combine the soy Continue stirring until the mixture is sauce, the vinegar, the red pepper cooled and the popcorn is evenly coat­flakes, the brown sugar, the peanut ed. Add the remaining ingredients and butter, the oil, the ginger and the stir to combine and coat. Turn out broth, simmer the mixture, stirring, onto a greased foil-lined sheet pan. until it is thickened and smooth, and Let cool, then store in airtight con­let it cool slightly. tainers. Makes 14 cups. 
In a kettle of boiling salted water,· Recipe courtesy Emeril Lagasse, cook the noodles until they are al 2004. dente, drain them in a colander and rinse them under cold water. Drain Butterscotch Chocolate Chip Cookie the noodles well, transfer them to a Pie bowl and toss them with the sauce. Serve the noodles at room tempera­1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour ture and garnish them with the scal­1 teaspoon baking soda lion and the cucumber. 1 teaspoon salt 
Serves 4 to 6. 1/2 tsp cinnamon Recipe courtesy of Gourmet 1 1/4 cups Honey Bunches of Oats Magazine, September 1991. (or old fashioned oats) 1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter The Sep Pep Sandwich (preferably Plugra), softened 
3/4 cup granulated sugar Garlic Sauce: 3/4 cup packed brown sugar 10 tablespoons unsalted butter 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 3 tablespoons finely chopped garlic 2 eggs 
1 cup semi-sweet chocolate chips Pizza Sauce: 1 cup butterscotch chips 2 cups pizza sauce with basil 1 cup tomato juice Preheat oven to 325 degrees 3 tablespoons finely chopped garlic Fahrenheit. Spray a 9-inch pie tin 1/2 tablespoon salt with vegetable-oil cooking spray; set 2 loaves hearty French bread aside. combine flour, baking soda, cin­3 cups sliced mushrooms namon, oats, and salt in small bowl. 3 cups shredded mozzarella cheese Beat butter, granulated sugar, brown 2 cups sliced pepperoni (about 80 sugar and vanilla in large mixer bowl. 
slices) Add eggs one at a time, beating well 1 tablespoon dried oregano after each addition; gradually beat in flour mixture. Stir in chocolate and Preheat oven to 3 7 5 degrees butterscotch chips. Press 3 cups of Fahrenheit. dough into prepared pan. Bake until 
Make the Garlic Sauce: In a medium edges are golden and center is almost bowl. microwave the butter on high firm to touch, 40 to 45 minutes. Let until melted, about 3 minutes. Whisk cool at least 20 minutes and remove in the garlic. In another medium bowl, from pan. You'll have enough cookie whisk together the pizza sauce, toma­dough to make about ten more cook­to juice, garlic and salt. Set aside. ies, or to freeze for when your next Slice off part of the rounded side of cookie dough craving strikes. each bread half to create a nat sur­Adapted from Nestle Tollhouse face. (This will allow the bread to lay Chocolate Chip Cookies Recipe. nat in the oven.) Cut the loaves open, lengthwise, keeping them intact like a book. Cut each loaf in half, crosswise, to make 4 sections. Arrange the bread Contact Maureen Malloy at on a baking sheet. Using a brush, mmalloy1@nd.edu 
TECH PREVIEW 
iPod nano slimmer, lighter than original 

users can take entire digital photo­
By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA 
graph collections with them. Up to 
Scene Editor 
25,000 photos can be housed in the nano's tiny package. 
Apple's advertising juggernaut used While a few aesthetic and functional a simple, undeniable phrase to turn changes have been made to the iPod the iPod into a cultural and consumer nano, most of the features are familiar sensation: 1,000 songs in the palm of to current iPod owners. The head­your hand. phone port has been moved to the bot­
Last week, the company took anoth­tom of the unit, leaving the tiny hold er giant step ahead of its competitors, button on the top face of the nano. offering up the latest gadget in the But a few fun gimmicks have been growing line of iPod portable digital thrown into the mix that are exclusive music players -the iPod nano. to this model. A stopwatch feature has 
Impossibly small (as the ad cam­been added, letting users keep track paign insists), the newest iPod incar­of run or lap times. Finally there's a nation is both appropriately named new Screen Lock feature, letting own­and a technological marvel. ers lock the iPod contents with a four­
The iPod has been on top of the digi­digit code, deterring prowlers from tal music hill for so long that critics discovering socially embarrassing 
have raised concerns  ·songs.  
about Apple becom­ing complacent with  iPod nano  The iPod nano comes in two different sizes  
its trademark brand.  Manufacurer: Apple  - 2 GB and 4 GB  - 
The recent release of  Dimensions: .27 inches wide  and lets buyers pick  
the iPod shuffle has­ and weights 1.5 ounces  between two available  
n't helped matters.  Price: 2GB and 4GB models  colors, black or white.  
Although it was tout­ed by Apple for its  starting at $199  Deciding on a start­ing price of $199,  
miniature size, tak- Apple  has  carefully  

ing up the same space as a pack of maneuvered the nano to fill the void chewing gum, not all buyers were vacated by the iPod mini, a model the impressed. Essentially a memory stick company discontinued to create more with a play button, the shuffle model market space for the latest iPod mani­did little to push the envelope for festation. In terms of price, functional­functionality. ity and size, the nano trumps many of 
Enter the iPod nano. Apple wisely the features that made the iPod mini chose to apply all the stylized features so popular. This prompted Steve Jobs, that made the original iPod and iPod Apple's chairman, to confidently pro­mini models so successful. The iPod claim the nano as "the biggest revolu­nano is smaller than a business card tion since the original iPod" during his and thinner than a No. 2 pencil. introduction of the new product. Essentially, "it's an ultra-slim version Recently, there have been rumors of the 20 and 40 Gigabyte (GB) iPod circulating in the music industry that models, forced into an appliance that Apple was planning a new generation can be twirled in between a person's of iPod players, capable of storing and fingers. playing video files. But while iPod 
The click wheel, a staple feature for fanatics will continue to wait for that previous iPod models, has been leap in portable entertainment, the applied to the nano as well. Featuring nano gives musicphiles plenty of rea­a color screen, previously only avail­sons to rejoice. able in the most recent iPod models, A smaller, sleeker device, the iPod and a battery life maxing out at 14 nano will further cement Apple's hours, the nano is the latest whiz cre­deserved stranglehold on the portable ation from a company that has made music battleground. It's only appropri­the iPod its bread and butter product. ate that the product responsible for 
The color screen is an especially rejuvenating an entire company con­nice touch for the nano. Not only does tinues to be the pinnacle of cool func­it beautify the overall aesthetic nature tionality. of the model, but it allows album art to be shown on--screen during music Contact Rama Gottumukkala at playback. And as an added bonus, rgottumu@nd.edu 

NSIDER 
O
THE 
Monday, September 12, 2005 BSERVER Notre Dame 17, Michigan 10 
Not since Lou 
Weis, Notre Dame take Big House 12 years after Holtz's Irish last invaded 
By KATE GALES 
A'sociarr Sports Editor 
ANN AHBOH, Mich. -The I I 1,3S6 spectators packed into Mic:higan Stadium Saturday wern silc~nr.c~d with an nllidemt opening drivn ordwstratPd by Notrn Dmm~ quartnrback Brady <)uinn and kept quid by an aggrnssive Irish doli~nsn. No. 20 Notrn Dame nnver trailnd on iL<> way to a 17-10 vido­ry over No. 3 Miehigan, and the Irish won in Ann Arbor fill' the first tirnn sinee I 91J:l. 
The Associated l'rnss now has 
Notro Damn ranked No. 10 in its 
most rewnt poll. 
"I wantc!d to take the~ c:rowd out of thn ganw," Irish coaeh Charlie Weis said of the opening drive. "You'll notien this was a no-huddle oll'nnsl', but this W<L'> not a hurry­up ofl'tmse.... It was just so that wn muld take the noisn out of the game." 
The la.<>t timn Notrn Dame beat Michigan in Ann Arbor was on Sl'pt. II, 1993, wlwn then-head 1:mu:.h Lou lloltz guidnd the IrL'ih to a 27-2:{ win. 
<)uinn noticnd a difl't~rnnee in the stadium's noise level from his la<>t visit in 2003, which rnsulted in a 3S-O Wolverine drubbing of tho Irish. 
"Somehow it didn't seem as loud. and I think that had some­thin~ to de~ with the~ way we came out. he sa1d. 
Thn 12-play opnning drive, whic:h didn't usn a third down and W<L'> run without a huddln until the linal scoring play, snt the tone fhr tlw ganw -although the Irish would scon• just one liPid goal in tlw second half. As the Irish ofTI'nSI' slowed its output, the dt>fnnsn stnppml up against a poll'ntially explosive Miehigan tnam that never found the end zmw until latl' in tlw fi1urth quar­ll'r. 
"Evnryonn had this game pegged down <L'> an oflimsivn tPam versus an ofl'nnsivn tmun," Wnis said. "I told those guys this morning, you mwnr know how the gamn is going to bn playml." 
With a 17-:{ scorn in the fi>urth quartm, tlw Irish wnrn far from se1CUI'I1 in tlwir lead. Michigan nParly cut thn lnad to seven in the fourth quarter after eornerbaek Ambrose Woodnn f'oree~d Jason Avant out of hounds at Notre Damn's !-yard lilw after a 54-yard rm:option. 
As the crowd anticipated the Wolvnrim~s· first touchdown, Irish dnfi1nsive tackle Brian Beidatsch lim:Pd a llmmn fumble on sneond down. Free safety Chinedum Ndukwn weovnrnd it f(Jr a touch­hark and ran out or the pile hold-ing the ball high. 

Though the referees initially ruled that Miehigan retained pos­session. instant rnplay determined IInnne had fumbled. 
"I knew fNdukwel had it," Weis said. "I knew that he was in the end zone. So I'm saying that's a tourhback. And I'm yelling to (the ollidalsl. saying that's our ball. it's a touchback." 
The call went in favor of the Irish, and the Wolverines failed to get into the end zone in a game that saw them convert 0-of-3 attempts in the red zone -all three situations coming in the sec­ond half. 
I lenne finally found the end zone with a 25-yard pass to Mario Manningham with 3:47 on the dock. But the Irish defense stilled any Wolverine hopes, foreing a turnovor on downs alter a Notre Damp, punt. 
Notre Dame's defi'mse bngan the second half with a forced turnover, as well. Strong safety Tommy Zbikowski intercepted Henne at the Notre Dame 1-yard line, end­ing a 14-play Michigan drive and returning the ball to the Notre Dame 28. 
"That interception down dose, that was a critical play of the game," Weis said. "There was a lot of momentum and that intercep­tion just changed the whole momentum back and just got the game bac:k under control." 
Michigan nearly rngainnd that momentum aftc~r a Darius Walker fumble in the li1urt.h quartew. Tho Wolverinos had tho ball on tho Notre l>anw 5-yard linn. but an Irish defnnsivo stand forend Michigan to turn the ball ovor on downs. 
Defense was key to the Notre! Dame vietory, but Wds W<L'> ean{ul to credit to special tnams and the otl'enso as wdl. 
"I don't look at it just one <L<>pnct of the team," Wnis said. "''m proud of tlw way thP defimsn steppod up today. Tlw spoeial teams won~ ehallengnd with I Miehigan n~turn­er Steve! Breaston and tlwy stepped up today." 
Quinn wont 1 9-fiw-30 with 140 yards, two touchdowns and no intnrcnptions. Irish running bark Darius Walkm· !Pel all rushers with 104 yards on 2(> c:arries and addnd five receptions fhr 22 yards. 
On the Michigan sidn of tho ball, !Jenne eompletnd 19-of-44 passns for 233 yards and Knvin Crady rushnd li1r a earm~r-high 79 yards al'ter starting running baek Mike I I art Jpfi with a hamstring iqjury in the first half. 
Notre Damn wide reenivnr Hhema McKnight, who left in the first half with a knne injury, caught Quinn's first touehdown p<L<>S dur­ing the game's opnning drive. Late in the seeond quartor, .lefT Samardzija snagged a pass from Quinn via a tip by Mkhigan line­backnr Chris (;raham. 
Earlinr in the second quartnr, Wolvnrines kiek11r Garrntt Hivas nailod a 38-yard liPid goal to put Michigan on thn board. 
Dospite a second-half barragn from the Miehigan ofTnnse, tlw muc:h-maligned Irish dnfimsn W<L'> able to knep the lnad fi1r thn rest ol' the gamn. Al'tnr tlw Wolverinns gavn up tlw ball on downs with 
I:52 to play, limn oxpirnd and tlw battnred dnfimsn could finally rPI­ish thn momnnt. <L'> the noisn camn from ecstatic poeknts of Notrc~ Dame lims in tlw Big Iloust1. 
"That's sonw big time hitting going on out t.h11rn -it was an extrmnely physieal game," Quinn said. "Wn w11rn fortunat11 whm·n our dn((msn wa<> doing tho m;~jori­ty of the hitting." 
Saturday's 17-10 decision was only the seventh home loss for Michigan head eoaeh Lloyd Carr ovnr his 11-year carnnr. 
''I'm proud of the team. I'm proud of thn coaching stall', I'm proud of thn players," Weis said. "This is a tough plam to win. We came in here and walknd out of here with a 'W'-w1~'ve got to bP happy." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgaJes@nd.edu 

play of the game
player of the game 
stat of the game 
quote of the game 

Chinedum Ndukwe's fumble recovery 
Tom Zbikowski 
2 to 0 

"Our whole motto ... is that we're going 
nw strong safety was a threat as a 
to have 1 I people flying to the ball. and
Ndukwe prevented Michigan from 
Notre Dame's red zone offensive
defender and a returner on Saturday, 
I think that s how they are playing. " 
scoring early in the fourth quarter
notching nine tackles, an interception 
efficiency (2 for 2) compared to 
when he recovered Hennes Jumble
right in front ofthe Irish goal line 
Michigan s (o for J). 
Charlie Wets 

at the Irish I -yard line. 
Irish coach 
and a 17-yard punt return. 

--------~--· 
------·-----------------------·--------------, 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 12, 2005 
report card 
8 8­
A­
8­A 
A­A­

able to keep Breaston from slipping 
8+through for a big play. Fitzpatrick's field goal was wobbly, but good. 
coaching: The Irish came into the Big
A 
House and gave Uoyd Carr only the sev­
enth home loss of his career. Though it 
was a sloppy game, Weis had the team ready to pull off the upset. 
3.40 
overall: The Irish weren't intimi­dated by the Wolverines and out­played the nation's No.3 team on their own field. The play wasn't always pretty, but the result was. 
adding up the numbers 
Number of times officials overturned calls 
2 

based on instant replay -both in Notre Dame's favor. 
1918 
Knute Rockne's first year as coach. Weis joined him as the only ND coaches to begin their careers with two road wins. 
Number of first downs for the Irish -14 in the first half. 
17 

3 
Michigan's rank when they lost to Notre Dame in 1993. The Irish did not defeat a top-3 opponent again until Saturday. 
Number of home losses for Wolverines head 
7 

coach lloyd Carr in his 11-year career at Michigan. Carr is 8-11-1 overall against the Irish. 
31 
Consecutive quarters in which the Irish had not given up a fumble. The streak ended Saturday 
with Walker's fourth-quarter fumble. 
Number of third downs Notre Dame needed on 
Q

the 12 plays of its first scoring drive. 
Notre Dame's productivity in the red-zone, scoring two touchdowns. Michigan was 0-3
2-2 
inside the 20-yard line. 

quarterbacks: Quilln looked nervous and fidgety in the pocket at times and missed several open receivers. But he didn't throw an interception and took care of the football. 
running backs: Walker had 26 carries for 104 yards, fumbling once, but was sti­fled by the Michigan defense most of the day. Powers-Neal and Schwapp helped wear down the Wolverine line. 
receivers: The receivers ran crisp routes and Samardzija made another spectacular touchdown catch. McKnight also scored, while Fasano made several key third-down grabs. 
offensive line: The unit surrendered three sacks and the rushing game was slow. But they were able to hold their own against a very athletic Wolverine defensive line. 
defensive line: The line held Michigan 
running backs Hart and Grady to 83 yards rushing. It batted down five 
Henne passes and sacked the 
Michigan quarterback twice. 
linebackers: Boyte and Mays combined for 20 tackles and pressured Henne all game. Crurn Jr. continued to improve, 
tallying five tackles. 

defensive backs: The group held Breaston to ju.<;t one catch for nine yard<; and Henne threw only one touchdown. Zbikowski made a key interception on the Notre Dame 1-yard line. 
special teams: The coverage units were 
ANN ARBOR, Mich.-This is what he carne back for. This is why he left his East Coast roots to return to his Midwestern alma mater. This is why he left the Patriot power­
house he built with Bill Belichick and Tom Brady and the job security he had earned. 
Charlie Weis came back to beat Michigan. 


Michigan and  Mike Gilloon  
all the other  
schools who  
have bullied  Sports Editor  
Notre Dame  
around the past  

few years on the college football playground, taking its bowl money but never its potential. The Notre Dame potential -its tradition, its spirit, its financial power -was always right there, stuffed in its back pocket. No one could take it. Notre Dame just needed to realize what it had. 
Weis knows what he has -and it has nothing to do with offense. His best weapon -the reason the Irish are 2-0 -is defense. 
An Irish defense that lost the memo informing it of its inexperi­ence, its lack of talent, its knack for giving up four touchdown passes to Oregon State. 
Well, Tom Zbikowski might have received that memo. But he proba­bly ripped it up, or at least knocked the messenger around. The Irish strong safety, who was compared to a kamikaze pilot by defensive coor­dinator Rick Minter last week, helped knock the Wolverines out. He stuck his helmet in the chest of every Maize and Blue receiver in his sight Saturday. And his inter­ception at the Irish 1-yard line early in the third quarter let Notre Dame breathe easier. 
A coach can only do so much. Weis may be one of the best offen­sive minds in the sport, but he needs an enforcer, a fighter, a com­petitor like Zbikowski to grind out a win. 
And Zbikowski loves it -the attention, the rush, the feeling of stopping one of the nation's best teams on the biggest home turf of all. 
"Coming into the Big House and getting a win, it's just unbeliev­able," Zbikowski said. ''I'm just 
happy we won." The Notre Dame potential tations and aren't This was sup­-its tradition, its spirit, planning on a let­posed to be a down.
its financial power ­
game of offense, a With Michigan 
was always right there, 
nationally tele­State visiting vised opportunity stuffed in its back pocket. Saturday, Weis for Henne and will do everything 
No one could take it. 
Quinn to show off their talent; another chance for Weis to cement his reputation as an offensive wizard. 
But, as usual, this Michigan-Notre Dame clash was anything but pre­dictable. 
The offense, besides an opening touchdown drive as smooth as a Don Henley tune, struggled against a gritty Michigan defense. 
Quinn looked jittery, his timing slow. And the Michigan defense was too fast, too talented, too good for the Irish signal-caller to have an off day and still be successful. 
Paging the defense. 
Linebackers Brandon Hoyte and Corey Mays joined Zbikowski in smacking the Wolverines and sav­ing the day for Notre Dame. ' 
Chinedurn Ndukwe showed a Shane Walton-like sense for the football, and Maurice Crum Jr. showed poise in his first year as a starter. 
Notre Dame couldn't have asked for any more. The offensive success overall, with ten starters and Darius Walker returning, is no sur­prise. 
The defense is what had Irish fans buying extra bottles of Turns before the season started. Don't put them away yet-some guy named Pete Carroll is bringing a pretty good team to South Bend next month. 
However, Zbikowski and friends 
have already 

exceeded expec­
he can to prevent 
a mental lapse 
that seems possi­ble considering the hype his rejuve­nated program is receiving. 
The Spartans are one of those teams that have bullied the Irish around in the last decade. They've won the past four contests in Notre Dame Stadium -reason enough to give Notre Dame heartburn. 
The Irish are the stronger squad and should win on paper. But this game, just like Saturday at Michigan, could turn ugly. 
That's fine for this defense. 
They like to be the bully. 

The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd. edu 

-----~~------~---------------­
Monday, September 12, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Mays, linebackers step up at UM 
Hy MIKE GILLOON 
Sports Editor 
/\NN 1\HBOH. Mkh. -Corny Mays Inapt over a Michigan defensive lineman, rraslwd into tho backfield and hassled Wolverine quartnrbark Chad llnnnn. 
/\f'tnr four yoars in a rnsorvn role, tho Irish snnior linnbarkor was having fun ­and ost.ablishing himself as a loader of an urwxpoetmlly stout dofonso-during Notrn Damn's win ovor Michigan Saturday. 
"It's tim Michigan-Notrn Damn game," Mays said. "I low mudr fun can it got'?" 
Wnll. fun ((w Mays at least. 
lin rncordnd night tackles, broke up two passns and toanrnd with follow senior lino­harkor Brandon lloytn to makn Ihmno's day not so happy. 
Tho Wolvnrinns' sophomorn quarterback was 19-of-44 for 22:{ yards with one touchdown. Notn~ Damn sackod him twieo. 
Irish coadr Charlio Wt~is said Mays ((111 sick during tho game and nomlml to be rnplacml by fn1shman Scott Smith f(lr sov­nral plays. llownvnr, tho sickrwss didn't sidnlinn him for a signifkant amount of time. 
This is Mays' first season as a starter and tim lirst time hn saw signifkant action against Michigan. 
Tho lifth-ynar player has spnnt his previ­ous l(nrr seasons playing mostly on special tnams though hn did start the 2003 Washinhrton Statn game. With so many of the samo Irish players "We really didn't know what to expect in 
Mays' tnarnrnatns am irnpressnd with his suiting up Saturday as in 2003, Mays was any game so you just have to come pre­voral lnadorship, 11spodally in May's first unsure how to attribute the dill'erent out­pared," Mays said. "That's why we prac­SIHtson as a major contributor to the comt~. tice all types of ditl'erent situations -so d11ff111SO. "I really can't tell you what's dill'erent," we can come prepared." 
/\s linebackers, Mays and lloyto arn like Mays said. "We just made some more With this early-season success, both for quarterbacks of the dnfnnse, responsible plays I Saturday! really." the Irish and personally for Mays, the for making sum each playnr is in propnr lloytn made many of those plays while potential for overconfidence is high. position bnf(m1 the snap. reeording a team-high 12 tackles. But Mays believes it's his duty to keep 
"I Mays and lloytnI an1 playing groat. I However, as a team captain with 15 his younger teammates hungry and pre­muldn't bn happier," Irish dnfnnsivn tackle earner starts under his belt hnading into pared. Dnmk l.andri said. "They're getting us our 2005, lloyte is doing what's expected. "I feel llloyte and IJ are leaders on this calls on our dofnnsn. It's really rall-orinnt­Meanwhile, Mays himself is one of the team," Mays said. "It really has to stay nd, and llwy'rn doing a good job." reasons for the dramatic. change from the consistent each week. You know we can't 
Mays, a former Chicago (Morgan Park) 2003 game. come out and be a one-week wonder. You standout, assisted on throe tackles against lie blitzed oftnn Saturday, disrupting the just have to take it one game at a time. tlw Wolvnrines during Notn1 Dame's 2H-20 timing of Henne and helped hold the Each week is a dillerent week so trying to win in 2004. Wolverine running back tandem of Mike get a big head is really not the thing to do." 
lin was also on tlw field shortly in 2003 Hart and Kevin Grady to a total of 83 at Michigan Stadium whtm the Wolverines yards in a game many expected to be high­Contact Mike Gilloon at dPnrolislrnd the Irish 3H-O. scoring. mgilloon@nd.edu 

Teamadjusts to game use of instant replay 
Hy KATE GALES 
A'soci:ue Sports Ediror 
/\NN 1\HBOH. Mich.-Two of tlw most important decisions in the ganw didn't oven happen on tho liold. Instant mplay was an important fador, overturn­ing two key calls in favor of the Irish. 
In tlw fourth quarter, Chirwdum Ndukwn's goal-line fumble recovery for a touch­hack was initially ruled as a rncovnry for tlw Wolvnrines. Later that quarter, what was first called a fumble by Brady ()uinn was overturnod as the oflidals rulnd hn wm; down. 
Weis' experienco as an oll{m­sive coordinator in the NFL accustomed him to a slightly different set of rules on the mplay, which is not used in the pros unless a coach challenges tlw call. Collnge ruins dietato no coach can challnnge a call. /\n oflkial in a booth reviews every play and determines if a mplay is nncnssary. 
"The onn time I really thought was ridiculous is when· they're told -and I'm talking about the last one when I()uinn I was down -they're told to err on the side of safety because they havn replay," Weis said. 
lin pointed out that college rnfnrnes can rnly on replays for backup on any eall. 
"IThe oflkialsl told me right then Iaf'ter the calli that because they have instant replay they're told to make that call in that way because they know it can be corrncted upstairs," Wnis said. "Whereas that's not the rule that I've been used to dealing with." 
()uinn's play was evidence that instant rnplay could play a sihrnificant role in tim outcome of collegn f(lOtball games. 
"The tough thing is, there's still a couple of calls where I fool like thoro should have bnen instant replay ... there's still a lot of tough issues regarding that on both sides of the ball, I'm sure," Quinn said. 
Notes 
+ McKnight injured 
Hhema McKnight appeared to injure his knee on a passing play from Brady Quinn in the first half. McKnight left the game and was seen in street clothes at the end. 
"They said at halftime, they said they were going to go do an MRI on him," Weis said. "I moan I'll have to wait and find out. But obviously it was some­thing where he couldn't come back in the second half', you know -the severity ofit." 
Wcis said at his noon press 
conference Sunday he would meet with his stan· to discuss injuries at 1:20 P.M. lie was, therefore, not able to com­ment further on McKnight's status. 
+ Michigan Stadium win streak snapped 
Saturday's loss marked the first home loss for Michigan in 16 games. Their last home loss was on Sept. 12, 199H, in a 3H­28 decision to Syracuse. It is only the seventh home loss for Wolverines coach Lloyd Carr in his 11-year career as head eoach. 
+ Walker runs past century mark-again 
Darius Walker, Notre Dame's versatile running back, reached the 100-yard mile­stone for the second consecu­tive game on Saturday. This is the first time Walker has rushed for over 100 yards in consecutive games, after post­ing exactly 100 yards (and two touchdowns) against Pittsburgh last week. 
Walker rushed for 115 yards in his collegiate debut against Michigan last season in Notre Dame Stadium, also scoring two touchdowns. lie added 112 yards against Pittsburgh last season. 
"I thought Darius ran hard," Weis said. "He got a lot of extra yards for us." 
+ Top-3 drought over 
The game was the first time the Irish have defeated a top-3 opponent since defeating No. 3 Michigan in 1993. That was also the last year the Irish won in Michigan Stadium. Current Irish defensive coordinator lUck Minter was also Notre Dame's defensive coordinator during that win. 
+ Compared to the Rock 
Weis entered the record books with the victory as only the second Irish coach to win consecutive opening road games in his first year. The first was Knute Rockne in 1918. 
But Weis wasn't looking for comparisons to the legendary Irish coach. 
''I'm really happy for our kids right now," Weis said. "They're starting to figure it out. And that's two weeks in a row now. That's a really happy locker room, and they deserve it." 
+Captains 
Saturday's captains were Brady Quinn on offense, Brandon Boyte on defense and Casey Cullen on special teams. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
•

scoring SUllllllary 
1st 2nd  :~rd  4th  Total  
Notre Dame  7  7  0  3  17  
Michigan  0  3  0  7  10  
First quarter  

Notre Dame 7, Miehigan 0 
Rhema McKnight5-yard reception from Brady Quinn with 12:02 remaining 
(D.J. Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 12 plays, 76 yards, 2:58 elapsed 
Seeond quarter 
Notre Dame 7. Michigan ;{ 
Garrell Rivas 38-yard field goal with 14:04 remaining Drive: 5 plays, 35 yards, 1:15 elapsed 
Notre Dame 14, Michigan 3 
Jell Samardzija 5-yard reception from Quinn with 4:24 remaining (Fitzpatrick kick) Drive: 12 plays, 72 yards, 4:25 elapsed 
Third quarter 
No points scored 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 17, Miehigan :l 
Fitzpatrick 43-yard field goal with 14:11 remaining Drive: 4plays, 8yards, 1:21 elapsed 
Notre Dame 17. Michigan I 0 
Mario Manningham 25-yard reception from Chad Henne with 3:47 remaining (Garrell Rivas kick) Drive: 5 plays, 50 yards, 0:37 elapsed 
statistics 
total yards 
~ 
rushing yards 
~jijli!ijhii~ 
passing yards 
~ 
return yards 
~ 
time of possession 
bjt4ilf!ifllllmJ] 

44-104  rushes-yards  29-114  
19-30-0  eomp-att-int  19-44-1  
9-371  punts-yards  8-330  
3-1  fumbles-lost  3-1  
4-21  penalties-yards  4-28  
17  first downs  15  

passing 

Quinn 19-30-0 Henne 19-44-1 
rushing 

Walker  26-104  Grady  18-79  
Powers-Neal  6-19  Breaston  2-34  
Schwapp  2-8  Hart  3-4  
McKnight Quinn  1-(-7) 7-(-16)  Jackson Henne  1-4 4-(-3)  

Walker  receiving 5-22 Ecker  7-74  ..  
Samardzija  4-52  Avant  5-90  
Fasano  4-18  Dutch  2-16  
McKnight  2-18  Massey  2-3  
Stovall  2-17  Mannlngham  1-25  
Powers-Neal  1-9  Breaston  1-9  
Shelton  1-4  Thompson  1-6  

tackling  
Hoyle  12  Mason  16  
Zbikowski  9  Graham  9  
Mays  8  Burgess  8  
Wooden  5  Harris  8  
Richardson  5  Engleman  6  
Crum Jr.  5  Woodley  5  
Ndukwe  4  Barringer  4  
Lambert  2  Hall  4  
Thomas, T.  2  Massey  3  
Talley  2  Trent  3  
Laws  1  Watson  3  

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 12, 2005 

Defensive spectacular 

A game expected to showcase two high-octane offenses instead turned into a scrappy defensive battle. Safeties Tom Zbikowski and Chinedum Ndukwe each came up with critical turnovers along the Irish goal line. Brady Quinn kept his cool while evading a heavy Michigan blitz, and Notre Dame coacli Charlie Weis drew comparisons to Irish legend Knute Rockne by winning his first two games on the road. The Irish beat Michigan at the Big House for the first time in 12 years and vaulted themselves into the Associated Press top ten with the victory . 
., 


Photos by TIM SULLIVAN and SOFIA BALLON!The Observer Coach Charlie Weis argues with an official, top left. Jeff Samardzija comes down with his second-quarter touchdown, top right. Trevor Laws hits Michigan quarterbak Chad Henne, middle right. Chinedum Ndukwe (18) celebrates his fumble recovery, bottom right, and Tom Zbikowski takes off on a punt return. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Monday, September 12, 2005 
page 19 
CONCERT REVIEW 
Classic country sounds featured at concert 
New bands add flair to Michiana radiostation's anniversary celebration 
By LIZ BYRUM 
Al;sistanr Scene Editor 
When you're heading to a show wlwrn the schedule of' events ineludes a listing that tldls what time the Miller Lite Beer (;arden opens, you can't be exactly surn what to oxpect. 
On Sunday, the St. Josoph County Fair (;rounds thn~w opon its gates to country l'ans of' all ages and walks of lil'n. To ccdnbrate its 11th birthday, Mir.hiana's top country station, B1 00.7 hold its annual birthday party. There were quite a few give-away nvcmts on and around Notr:n Damn's campus in the past week. but only a l'ew students were spotted in tlw crowd that filled the Cnntm111ial Wirelnss Festival Park. 
Like every otlwr country concert in tlw U.S., a wide range of' people bravHd tlw lwat and canw out for the show. Tlw group ranged from girls wearing .I. Crew cowboy hats to old men sport­ing tattooed arms and real Stetsons. 
This varied l'an base that makes muntry musk what it is today. It is a genre of' music that addresses many serious issuns. such as the terrorist attac:ks that happened four years ago, hut also manages to keop things light with songs about hillbillic~s. cowboys and tlw comforts of tho South. 
Thn performers at the concnrt includnd up and coming acts sueh as .Jason Aldnan. llot Appln Pie and Shooter .Jennings, as wnll as veteran c:ountry nwn Pat Green and the head­liner, Tracy Lawrence. 
in tlw opening acts, it was obvious that nnw sounds are coming out of today's country music. Singers and liwir hands are bnginning to pull away from the "pop-country" hybrid that has propellod the industry in recent years. Although some of tho sounds coming from tho stage during the concert were dif'f'ernnt than the audience was used to !waring, they seemed to be a welcome change. 
Jason Aldean, a young singer raised in (;norgia, was one of the first per­forms to hit the stage. lie reached a low point in 2003 when he lost his recording contract and almost gave up on the music industry, but has been slowly inching his way up through the Nashville music scene since then. It wasn't until he released his song "llicktown" that he became a popular name in country music. The crowd at the concert today definitely showed him support by singing along to every word of the catchy song. 

The band Hot Apple Pie seems to be making great strides in the area of "country groups." This band knows how to play real country, and they arHn't afraid to show it. Unlike some of the other fairly new male country groups in the music industry today, such as Rascal Flatts and Emerson Drive, there isn't a hint of pop in their country twang (not that there's any­thing wrong with pop country). 
Hot Apple Pie was formed by lead singer Brady Seals in 2002. All of the band's members, whieh indude Seals, Sparky Matejka, Keith Horne and Trey Landry, have had past experience in groups of their own, or in touring and performing with other country greats, such as Waylon Jennings, Trisha Yearwood, Charlie Daniels and Lonestar. Seals was a member of the band Little Texas before he began to formulate plans for Hot Apple Pie. 

The band chose their uniqun name because, as Seals said, "it moans so many things. It means honw. it means com fort. it means country, it means rock 'n' roll. And it's so American." 
The band's self-titled dobut album 
was releasnd this past sumnwr and 
ineludes thn fun summnr-timn hit, 
"llillbillies." Although this is a grc~ai. 
song, it was not the best one that eould 
be lward from the stage as the band 
played at the Bl 00 eonenrt Sunday. 
";\nnabelln" was a gmat southnrn bal­
lad that had the erowd swaying, and 
everyonn sennwd to enjoy thn bounc:ing 
sounds of "Wn'rn Making Up." 
The most interesting act at. thn c:on­cert may havn bnnn tlw son of famed country lognnd Waylon .Jnnnings Whiln he is the son of a country lngnnd. Shooter Jennings did not bngin his music career in ~~ o un try mu s i e. II n instead has slowly made his way from Hoek 'n' Holl baek to the music: of' his roots. After playing with a band called Stargunn for many ynars in Los Angeles, Calif'., Jnnnings dncidnd to turn his earnnr around and work on the music that madn him tho happinst. -true, old-school country. With a band hn calls the 357s, hn has reenntly 
releasnd his first f'ull-lnngth eount.ry 
album, titled "Put the '()' back in 
Country." 
That is exactly what Jennings wants 
to do. Some of tho most dnseriptivo 
lyrics in the song by thn same namn 
include "I'm rollin' like a f'rnight train, comin' straight at you I I'm playin' hill­billy music, like I was born to do I You know, it ain't country music you'vn been listenin' to." 
With tons of great new music being showcased like it was in South Bend this past weekend, country fans def'i­nitely don't need to wol'l'y about t.hn future of their favorite radio stations. The sounds may be evolving, but there's something about country music and the dedication of' its fans that will never change. 
Contact Liz Byrum at ebyrum@nd.edu 
... 
-
Photo courtesy of www.brokenbowrecords.com Jason Aldean is one of the up-and-coming country acts that contributed the 8100.7 birthday concert. The Georgia native is known for his distinctive voice. 
Photo courtesy of www.rtve.es Shooter Jennings, son of country legend Waylon Jennings, performed at Sunday's concert. He performed rock music before returning to his country music roots. 
~-----------------------,-----------,_...,.---------------,.--------~ -----~ ---------~~-~--~-­
page 20 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 12, 2005 
MLB-AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Johnson leads Yanks in classic over Red Sox 
Lackey, Angels roll over White Sox; Rogers, Rangers top Oakland 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK-Randy Johnson glared at Johnny Damon, send­ing an early message. The Big Unit muttered when plate umpire Derryl Cousins didn't give him calls and tapped his glove on his chest after strike­outs. 
Pumping fastballs at up to 99 mph and sliders that darted down, he put together his best performance of the season, and did it against the Red Sox with the Yankees desperately need­ing a win to stay in contention in the AL East. 
Johnson gave up one hit -a soft single at that -in stifling Boston over seven innings. Jason Giambi homered off Tim Wakefield in the first on a curveball that just stayed fair, and Tom Gordon and Mariano Rivera staved off the Red Sox in a 1-0 victory Sunday. 
"That's the pitcher that every­body expected, and that's the pitcher that I'd expected," said Johnson, who improved to 4-0 against the Red Sox this season. 
After the teams exchanged sloppy wins -8-4 by New York on Friday and 9-2 by Boston on Saturday -they played nine crisp and tense innings. Wakefield pitched a three-hit­ter, and the Yankees allowed just three hits. New York had not beaten the Red Sox 1-0 on a homer since Roy White connect­ed off Jose Santiago on May 11, 1968, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. · 
Seeking its eighth straight AL East title, New York moved within three games of the first­place Red Sox with three weeks left. The Yankees began the day 1 112 games behind Cleveland in the wild-card race. 
"The big thing was not com­ing in here and getting swept," Boston's Doug Mirabelli said. 
Do the Yankees have a shot to overtake the Red Sox? "Sure we have," owner George Steinbrenner said. 
Pitching one day after his 42nd birthday and on the fourth anniversary of the 2001 terror­ist attacks, Johnson (14-8) struck out eight and walked two on an afternoon tilled with bril­liant sunshine. 
Rangers 7, Athletics 4 
Winning two out of three isn't good enough for the Oakland Athletics when they are running out of games. 
Mark Teixeira hit a tiebreak­ing, three-run homer that made him the major league RBI leader and the Texas Rangers avoided a three-game sweep with their victory Sunday that dropped Oakland to third place in the AL wild-card chase. 
"We're trying to win as much as we can. This one's going to hurt a little bit because the next two series are going to be really important," said Oakland short­stop Marco Scutaro, who had a two-run double and a solo homer. "We're just trying to win every game. We don't have much time left." 

Oakland (79-63) had won three straight, but lost for the seventh time in 11 games over­all. The 1\s began the day tied with New York at 1 1/2 games behind wild-card leader Cleveland, but the Yankees beat Boston. And Oakland dropped two games behind AL West­leading Los Angeles after the Angels beat the White Sox. 
Angels 6, White Sox 1 
Chone Figgins got the Los Angeles Angels off to a powerful start Sunday. 
Figgins hit a leadoff homer off Orlando Hernandez, and Garret Anderson and Darin Erstad added solo shots in the first to give the Angels a quick three­run lead in a victory over the Chicago White Sox. 
"That's my job, to try"!tnd get on base," said Figgins, who hit his third career leadoff homer, all this season. ''I'm not used to doing things like that." 
John Lackey pitched seven shutout innings and the Angels completed the three-game sweep. 
Figgins had a sacrifice fly in the second and stole his 50th base in the eighth. 
"We just got pitches to hit and we didn't miss them," Figgins said. "When you get pitches to hit, you can't miss them. We put 


AP 
New York Yankees fans hold a flag taped in tribute to fallen firefighters as they stand side-by-side with Boston Red Sox fans during the singing of "God Bless America" in the seventh-inning stretch on the fourth anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
the ball in play hard today." 

Vladimir Guerrero hit his 29th homer in the eighth to help the Angels win their fourth straight game, all on the road. After Friday's 6-5 win in extra innings, Los Angeles outscored the White Sox 16-6 in the last two games. The Angels came into the game 1Oth in the AL in home runs. 
Devil Rays 6, Blue Jays 5 

Travis Lee hit a tying infield single with two outs in the ninth, then drove in the winning run on an 11th-inning grounder to help the Tampa Bay Devil Rays rally for a victory over the Toronto Blue Jays on Sunday. 
Joey Gathright had a leadoff single against Scott Schoenewnis (3-4) in the 11th. Gathright went to second on Aubrey Huff's grounder before stealing third. Lee then hit a grounder to first, but the speedy Gathright beat Shea Hillenbrand's throw to the plate. 
Tampa Bay right fielder Damon Hollins kept the game tied with a running catch on Russ Adams' drive near the wall in the top of the 11th. Eric Hinske, who was on first after drawing a walk, was doubled off to end the inning. 
Travis Harper (3-6) threw two scoreless innings for the win. The Devil Rays avoided a three­game sweep and moved to 32­23 since the All-Star break. 
Blue Jays starter Gustavo Chacin allowed three runs and five hits in 7 2-3 innings, nearly improving to 4-0 in four starts against Tampa Bay this year. He struck out a career-high seven and walked one. 
Jason Frasor got the final out in the eighth but Miguel Batista allowed two runs in the ninth for his seventh blown save in 34 opportunities. 
Huff hit an RBI grounder off Batista to get Tampa Bay to 5-4. Lne tied it with a two-out infield single, a high chopper to first that Hillenbrand failed to field cleanly. 
The Devil Rays improved to 4­76 when trailing after eight innings. 
Hillenbrand's RBI double off Chad Orvella broke a 3-all tie in the eighth. Aaron Hill made it 5-3 with a sacrifice fly. 
Tampa Bay starter Casey Fossum gave up three runs ­two earned -and five hits in seven innings. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. Al classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per ch~racter per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds . 
CLASSIFIEDS 
.... 
- NOTICES SPRING BREAKERS Book Early and Save Lowest Prices Hottest Destinations BOOK 15=2 FREE TRIPS OR CASH FREE MEALS/PARTIES BY 11/7 Highest Commission Best Travel Perks www.sunsplashtours.com 1-800­426-7710 WANTED SOCCER REFEREES needed for south side elementary school local­ed near Erskine Golf Course on Miami St.$35 per soccer game. Call 574-291-4200.  Local family looking for part-time babysitter for two toddlers. Must love children! References required. EXPERIENCE A MUST. Transportation necessary. Call (574) 247-9213. FoR SALE Brand new full mattress & box. Still in plastic. $120. Can deliver. 574­876-4474. Queen pillowtop mattress set. New with warranty. $155. Can deliver. 57 4-231-4522.  CLAY TOWNSHIP home. $65,000. Land contract. Partially furnished 2­3 bdrm home, basement, garage, fenced yard. Near Clay schools, owner financing & home improve­ment allowance. Includes 1 year home warranty. Call574-250-8552. FoR RENT LODGING FOR FOOTBALL GAMES Visit www.amishcountrybb.org for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast Accommodations: Non-smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts.  1-bdrm apt. Quiet historic neighbor­hood. 1 mi. to ND. $575/mo. Call 283-0325 GREAT HOUSES, GREAT NEIGHBORHOODS andersonN Drentals.com TICKETS BUY SELL OR TRADE ND FOOT­BALL TICKETS. TOP $$ PAID. A.M. · 232-2378 P.M. • 288-2726 FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 289·9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR$$: www.victorytickets.com  WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570._ BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT· BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911. WANTED: 4-6 MSU GAs together, Dave 248-760-1767 PLEASE HELP!!! Buying season tix GAs only or any game GAs. Call Mark 277-1659. Need USC tickets. Can trade 2 Tenn tix or buy. Call Bill @856-968­4565/856-404-1970 Wanted: 2 season tix & parking pass or 2 for any home game. 574­276-8507  PERSONAL UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi-weekly ad in THE OBSERVER. To the lovely ladies of Farley, this ode is for you. A small piece of heaven thus did defeat the Michigan maize and blue. The wolves were calling, but their hearts were weak. And good 01' Charlie Weis made their title hopes bleak ... Fo' shizzle.  
....  

~----~--~-­
page 21

Monday,September 12 ,2005 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Kate Watson: 

3.65 GPA Road Tripper Sports Fanatic* Is Welcome Here 
Your life. You can bring it with you. Learn more about Kate and teU us more about you visit pwc.com/bringit 
'I 
,. 



*connectedthinking 

liP 2005 Pt'l\\\lW<Jl\IJTIOUII~~oormm U.P. Ail nghls rmwrv<ld. "PrioewmBri·•oust•iCoop\~rs·· n;f\IJ> lo PriG<Jwlit<ll'h\)Ut\tlCoopen> U.P (a Dt;lawam limittldii<~biiiiy partm1rst1ip) or, l.lll thtl·oontexr wquitwl. olt1er mumber hrws of Pric;ewaterhtltiseCtmper~·lntem<ltlonfJI !..lfTH!erJ, e<'!eh tlf wllieh is r~ ooerx>rllfe Wld independer~t enl1ly. ·eonnectedthinkinp ;81! trademr•rk o! PricewaterhouseCoopars U..P ill!>). We me prt>ud ttl bfl <1n Allirmalive Aelion and Eq!Aai Opportunity Employer. 
-
-
-
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 12, 2005 
GOLF 

United States prevails, reclaims Solheim Cup 
-
19-year old Creamer leads the Americans 
Associated Press 

CARMEL, Ind. -Juli Inkster saw flags waving, heard chants of "U-S-A" and felt a lump in her throat on the practice range, the intensity building before the first match Sunday in the Solheim Cup. 
She gathered all the American players she could find. With their hands together in a collective fist, they broke huddle with a shout that carried them to victory and kept their record perfect on home soil. 
"FINISH!" 

"That was our key phrase," Paula Creamer said. "They don't remember how you start, but how you finish." 
Creamer made sure the start sent a message just as powerful. 
The United States won back the Solheim Cup and picked up a new star along the way-Creamer, the 19-year-old rookie who all but guaranteed victory and then backed it up with a crushing win over Laura Davies that set the tone for an American rout in sin­gles. 
The finish turned out to be anti­climactic. The only match that reached the 18th hole was the last one, when Rosie Jones earned a halve with Suzann Pettersen. All that did was provide a final score for posterity. 
United States 151/2, Europe 12112. 
"It's like a dream," U.S. captain Nancy Lopez said. "These players played their hearts out." 
The matches were tied going into the last day for the first time in 11 years, but not for long. The scoreboard was awash in so much American red that when Jones teed off in the final twosome, Europe did not lead in any match. 
Creamer, who went through her high school commencement just four months ago, shot 30 on the front nine and buried Davies, 7 and 5, as the Americans won six of the first seven matches. 
"I saw after nine holes she was 6 up," said Pat Hurst, who rallied in the match behind Creamer. "She's our rookie, and she was unbelievable." 
The Europeans were in a state of shock. 
"You're thinking about your own match, but it's hard not to look at the board," Carin Koch said. "With all the matches going the wrong way for us, it was tough. We've done everything we can." 
Meg Mallon clinched the cup for the United States with a par putt on the 16th hole for a 2-up lead, assuring the Americans at least the 14112 points they needed to win it back from Europe. 
Mallon won the next hole with a par for a 3-and-1 victory over Karen Stupples, and the celebra­tion was on. 
Players joined arms in a chorus line dance, rambled down fair­ways with an American flag and sang to the record gallery. Inkster took a camera from her bag before her caddie took it away. The only downer was after the
-
closing ceremonies. 

Lopez said Mallon became light­headed because of the heat, and was taken to the hospital as a pre­caution. 
It left a U.S. team that was slightly more somber, but still all smiles about the trophy before them. 
Europe was subdued for obvious reasons. 
"''m not one to grieve too hard or too long over golf," European captain Catrin Nilsmark said. ''I'm disappointed, mostly for the girls. They tried their best and they did their best. ... But we got down by so much. There were some big numbers up there." 
The youngest player in Solheim Cup history led the way, with help from a few others from the hip­hop generation. 
Creamer, the first LPGA Tour rookie to earn a spot in the Solheim Cup, surprised even her teammates two Weeks ago when the U.S. team was named with a sassy message to the Europeans. 
"All J can say is they had better get ready, because they're going to beat," Creamer said. 
Then she backed it up in a big way. 
"You should never say anything you don't believe," Creamer said. "This is a week I'll never forget." 

Over three days, she was in the fearless putting. She played all five Davies. 13 holes. toughest matches and came matches and went 3-1-1, the Starting with her opening birdie, For the first time all week, the through with clutch shots and biggest of all her rout against Creamer was 7 under par through United States had the lead. 

un eas 
your potentia 

·' 
... we have. GE's Evolution Series locomotive generates 16 cylinders' worth of power with only 12 cylinders, cutting emissions up to 40 percent as compared to our prior models. In addition. it was the first locomotive that met the U.S. Environmental-Protection Agency emissions standards. We call this ecomagination. At GE we invite you to unleash your ecomagination through a career in engineering, finance. manufacturing, sales and marketing, human resources, or information technology. 
Engineering Industry Day Career Fair 
Tuesday Sep 13, 2005 
5:00 PM -9:00 PM Joyce Center 

'Come meet GE reps from various business and learn more about the exciting full-time career and internship opportunities at GE!' 
ecomaginationsM 
to learn more visit us at gecareers.com 
an equal opportunity employer 


Adiversified technolog!J. financial services, media
imagination at work 
company. 

Monday, September 12, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 23 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Pedro stops skid, pitches well against Cards 
Brewers 4, Astros 2
Associated Press 
Hiekie Weeks doesn't always, play like a rookie. but his 
NI•:W YOHK-The way the teammates reminded him Nnw York Mnts' road trip went, Sunday that he is one. )>(HI ro Martinez eonsi d n n)d Wonks hit a two-run homer pitching to avoid a snrins sweep and Hiek I lolling pitehed seven rnon~ stressful than his start in strong innings to load the tlw World Series last fall. Milwauknn Brnwnrs ovnr the 
Martirwz stoppnd his own two­llouston Astros. gamn skid as W(dl as thn Mots' Al'lnr thn game, Weeks and six-ganw losing strnak, working every otlwr Milwaukee rookie night strong innings in a 7-2 vie­was f'oreed to wear white tory ovnr tlw St. Louis Cardinals Hooters tank-tops and tiny on Sunday. blaek shorts before the 
lin lwat thn Cardinals with Brnwnrs l~lft for their road snvnn shutout innings in (;ame 3 trip. of tlw World Series. helping the "I'm feeling good," Weeks Hnd Sox swnep for their first said before putting on his new ('hampionship sincn 191 S. outfit. "I've been hitting the 
"I think in the World Snries it ball but I couldn't find a hole. was easy for nw to relax," Now I giress the holes are find­Martinez said. "I had a spaen to ing me." actually makn mistakes. But the Houston remained a half­way wn're looking right now, gamn ahead of Florida in the wn'rn not going to last very wild-eard race. The Astros, long." who failed to move a season­
Carlos Beltran homered and high 12 games over .500, Mike .Jacobs doubled twien with begin a four-game series with an HBI to hnlp thn Mets beat the the Marlins on Monday in Cardinals for the first time in 1 2 Houston. Braves 9, Nationals 7 pitch Cordero has ridden to a over the San Franeiseo Giants on games on the road and avoid a "It's a wasted opportunity, no Andruw .Jones and Chipper franchise-record 44 saves. Sunday. four-game sweep. Victor Diaz hit question," said Houston man­Jones made up for another poor "All the guys went out there .Jerry Hairston hit a two-out a three-run homer in the ninth ager Phil Garner, knowing that outing by the Braves' bullpen. today and battled all day, and I double against LaTroy llawkins ofr Adam Wainwright. Florida already had lost. "We They hit eonsecutive homers throw one inning and I blow it," (2-6) -traded by the Cubs in 
New York, which rested Mike didn't take [the Brewers] for ofT Chad Cordero with two outs Cordero said. "I just want to May-before Perez lined a dou­­Piazza a day after he was granted, we just didn't show in the ninth inning Sunday to throw stuff. I'm just upset." ble to left for the go-ahead run. beaned, won for only thn third up offensively." give Atlanta a victory over Macay McBride (1-0) earned Matt Murton homered and time in 15 games overall and Helling (2-0) was making his Washington, which had rallied his first major league victory. He Todd Walker had an HBI triple in completed a 2-S road trip to fourth start of the season and with a live-run eighth after John faced one batter, striking out the sec:ond for the Cubs, who fin­Florida, Atlanta picked up his Smoltz left with tightness in his Brian Schneider to end the ished their road trip at 8-2. and St. Louis that first win as a pitching shoulder. eighth. Kyle Farnsworth got his Moises Alou tied the game at 2 damaged il'i wild­"/ had a pretty good starter. For Andruw .Jones, it was his sixth save. in the sixth when he scored on a eard hopes. cutter today and I was He gave up five second homer of the game and Until Jones and .Jones brought wild pitch by Michael Wuertz, 
"There's no rea­hits and had a 49th of the season. He broke the Atlanta back, it looked as if but Alou got banged up on the :­
locating my fastball
son obsessing season-high six franchise record of 4 7 shared by Washington might actually win a play and left the game shortly about it now," pretty well. , strikeouts. Hall of Famers Hank Aaron game on an afternoon they after. Wuertz (5-2) reeovered for manager Willie Derrick Turnbow (1971) and Eddie Mathews trailed 6-0, used eight pitchers, the win. Handolph said. pitched the ninth (1953). and had four rookies in the Alou had two hil'> and drove in 
Rick Helling 
"It's over, done for his 31st save "All these records -I already starting lineup. a run for the Giants, who lost for 
Milwaukee pitcher 
with, and you can in 34 chances. proved what I can do this sea­That's because Atlanta's the fifth time in six games. Alou, move on, but "That was son. I just want to get it done, bullpen didn't come through the team's lone All-Star this sea­obviously it was nowhere near probably the least amount of help my team, and get back into when Smoltz departed after son, will move from left field to what we were expeeting to do." curveballs I've thrown in my the World Series," Andruw Jones allowing three hits on only 7 4 right and from the cleanup spot 
Handolph said his young team entire career," Helling said. "I said. "There was a bit of frustra­pitches over seven innings. to fifth in the order Monday ean learn some valuable lessons. had a pretty good cutter today tion, but we came out on top, "A blessing for us," night when Barry Bonds makes 
"I just told them to make sure and I was locating my fastball and that's what really matters." Washington outfielder Ryan his long-awaited season debut they don't like the taste they pretty well, so I stayed with Chipper Jones' two-run shot Church said. after recovering from three sur­have in their mouth, that they that all day." off Cordero (2-4) erased a 7-6 geries on his right knee since spit it out right away," Handolph Hoy Oswalt (1 '7 -12) lost for deficit'for Atlanta -which led Cubs 3, Giants 2 Jan. 31. said. "Our guys are pretty sharp, just the sixth time in his last 6-2 heading into the bottom of Neifi Perez hit a tiebreaking Brett Tomko pitched seven they've got a lot of talent and it's 20 starts. He lasted six innings the eighth. Andruw Jones fol­RBI double in the eighth inning strong innings in his sec:ond start all part of growing pains. and gave up eight hits and four lowed by driving an 0-2 pitch to against his former team, and the since returning from his seeond 
"Sometimes you learn the runs. lie struck out five and left. Chicago Cubs wrapped up a suc­demotion to the bullpen, but hard way." walked one. Both came on fastballs, the cessful road trip with a victory failed to earn his first win since beating Florida on July 22. The 


right-hander has since gone 0-5 in seven starts. 
uplwat and rPlaxPd as lw pn~­pan~d to conw olr thP hO-day dis­ablnd list and play for tlw lirst tinw this.ynar. 
Tlw sluggPr will lw in thP starting filli'U)l WfH'II tfH' (;iants opPn a tiHeP-ganw snriPs against tlw Nl. West-loading San Dingo Padrns on Monday. 
prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yr Job In the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by November 4, 2005. 
r----­
ou-ND THE NATION 
page 24 CoMPILED FROM THE OnsrRvrrrs WIRE SERVICES Monday, September 12, 2005 


-
College Football Associated Press Top 25 
team record points 
1 Southern California (56) 1-0 1,592 
2 Texas (8) 2-0 1,538 
3 LSU 1-0 1,404 
4 Virginia Tech 2-0 1,345 
5 Tennessee 1-0 1,297 
6 Florida 2-0 1,242 
7 Georgia 2-0 1,181 
8 Florida State 2-0 1,138 
9 Ohio State 1-1 1,100 
10 NO-TRE DAME 2-0 1,036 
11 Louisville 1-0 941 
12 Purdue 1-0 837 
13 Miami 0-1 754 
14 Michigan 1-1 740 
15 California 2-0 634 
16 Georgia Tech 2-0 575 
17 Boston College 2-0 483 
18 Arizona State 1-1 373 
19 Texas Tech 1-0 324 
20 Clemson 2-0 316 
21 Oklahoma 1-1 267 
22 Iowa 1-1 252 
23 Fresno State 1-0 225 
24 Iowa State 2-0 223 
25 Virginia 1-0 205 
College Football USA Today Top 25 
team record points 
-
1 Southern California (59) 1-0 1,547 2 Texas (3) 2-0 1,480 3 LSU 1-0 1,336 4 Tennessee 1-0 1,311 4 Virginia Tech 2-0 1,311 6 Georgia 2-0 1,202 7 Florida 2-0 1,173 8 Florida State 2-0 1,120 9 Ohio State 1-1 905 10 Louisville 1-0 872 11 Purdue 1-0 849 12 NOTRE DAME 2-0 781 13 Miami 0-1 757 14 Michigan 1-1 696 15 California 2-0 601 16 Boston College 2-0 527 17 Oklahoma 1-1 508 18 Georgia Tech 2-0 502 19 Texas Tech 1-0 425 20 Virginia 0-1 311 21 Iowa 1-1 286 22 Arizona State 1-1 285 23 Clemson 2-0 223 24 Alabama 2·0 213 25 Fresno State 1·0 171 
College Volleyball MIAA Conference Standings 
team conf. overall 
Calvin 0-0 6-0 Tri-State 0-0 4-0 Adrian 0-0 7-1 Hope 1-0 7-2 Albion 0-0 2-1 Kalamazoo 0-0 4-3 SAINT MARY'S 0-0 4-6 Olivet 0-0 1-5 Alma 0-1 0-5 
around the dial 
MLB 

Reds at Cubs 7:05p.m., Comcast 
NFL 

Falcons at Eagles 8:00p.m., ABC 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
NOTRE DAME at Michigan (replay) 
6:00 p.m., ESPNU 
TENNIS 


Associated Press 

NEW YORK -Andre Agassi has battled the champions of three eras ­Pete Sampras, Boris Becker, John McEnroe, Jimmy Connors, Ivan Lend! -and now he puts Roger Federer above them all. 
"He's the best I've ever played against," Agassi said after falling to Federer 6-3, 2-6, 7-6 (1), 6-1 Sunday in the U.S. Open final. "Pete was great. No question. But there was a place to get to with Pete. You knew what you had to do. If you do it, it could be on your terms. There's no such place like that with Roger. 
"He plays the game in a very special way that I haven't seen before." 
Federer, a player of panache and unparalleled perfection in finals, with­stood Agassi's spirited upset bid to capture a sec­ond straight U.S. Open and sixth Grand Slam title. 
Federer responded to his few moments of pressure by reeling off seven straight points in the tiebreak that turned the match around, then blew Agassi away in the fourth set to run his stunning record in finals over the past two years to 23-0. He has never lost in a major final. 
"This is probably the most special Grand Slam final in my career," Federer said. "To play against Andre in New York, it's a dream." 
Federer moved into a tie with Becker and Stefan Edberg for Grand Slam titles among Open era play­ers, and one behind McEnroe and Mats Wilander. Sampras holds the record with 14 Grand Slam titles, but at 24 years old Federer could well have a shot at that. 
"That's fantastic," Federer said of tying Edberg and Becker. 'Tying your idols -isn't that great? It's every boy's dream and I made it come true today in a memorable final." 
Federer, flattered by Agassi's comments, shied away from pronouncing himself the best of all time. 
"The best player of this generation, yes. Nowhere close to ever," Federer said. "Just look at the records that some guys have. I'm a little cookie." 
Federer shrieked and leapt in the air when Agassi's backhand return looped long on the champi­onship point. The two men, who have the highest of respect for each other, shook hands warmly at the net. 
IN BRIEF 

Clijsters wins U.S. Open, Clijsters dropped her raeket and clubhouse. claims first Grand Slam l:itle covered her mouth with her hands. The slugger, coming baek from 
NEW YORK -Kim Clijsters Bonds to return to lineup three operations on his right knee climbed a wall and, like a tightrope tonight since Jan. 31, has been eager for walker, inched along a railing high SAN FRANCISCO -A cheerful months to resume his quest of Hank above the court. Fans reached out Barry Bonds looked upbeat and Aaron's home run record. to help her, worried she might fall. relaxed Sunday as he prepared to Wheldon claims record 
No way. On this night, everything come ofT the disabled list and play for sixth win of IRL season was grand. the first time this year. JOLIET, Ill. -Dan Wheldon kept his 
After coming up short in her first Bonds will start in left field and bat composure through the tense four tries and missing much of last cleanup when he makes his long­moments and left the track with a year with a serious wrist injury, awaited return to the San Francisco record and, unofficially, a champi­Clijsters finally won her first Grand Giants' lineup Monday night as they onship. Slam title Saturday hight, crushing open a three-game snries against the Wheldon set an Indy car mark Mary Pierce 6-3, 6-1 at the U.S. NL West-leading San Diego Padres at Sunday with his sixth victory this sea­Open. SBC Park. son and all but elinched his first IHL 
"It's still very hard to believe," Bonds took hatting practice and title, beating Helio Castroneves and said Clijsters, who won $2.2 million, shagged fly balls in the outfield Sam I-Iornish Jr. in a tight finish to double the top prize and the richest Suriday. He joked around with Cubs win the PEAK Antifreeze Indy 300 at payday in women's sports, because star Nomar Garciaparra and former Chicagoland Speedway. she won the U.S. Open Series lead­teammate Jerome Williams, traded to "It's difficult in this series," ing up to the tournament. "It's an Chicago earlier this season. Wheldon said. "To have won six is a amazing feeling to have, especially He even shook hands with a baby. very proud moment for me. To win six after being out for so long last year. "Right now, I'm just trying to keep races is something I'll look back on It means so much more." my mind clear, that's it," Bonds said and think that was a strong season." 
When she hit a service winner on while quietly gripping his bats in his Wheldon beat Castroneves by about the second championship point, black recliner in the corner of the a hood's length. 
Monday, September 12, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 25 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
No style points, but Georgia stays unbeaten 
Associated Press think it's a beautiful victory, but it 
is to me." 
/\Til ENS, Ga. -They don't give After accounting for six touch­style points in football. downs in his first college start, Good thing fi1r Geoq.,Tia. quarterback D.J. Shockley had a The Bulldogs survived the rough day. The senior completed return of Steve Spurrier to only 8-of-17 passes for 112 yards. Sanfi1rd Stadium by the barest of lie threw two crucial intercep­maq.,Tins. !\ touchdown wiped out tions, one returned for South by a penalty. !\ missed extra Carolina's first touchdown, the 
point. !\ failed two-point conver­other picked ofT in end zone. sion. Still, Shockley came through on 
If any of those things had gone the biggest play of the game late South Carolina's way, (;eorgia in the fourth quarter. might havn gone the way of three With Georgia faeing third-and­other Top 10 teams over the 22 from iL<; own 8, South Carolina weekend. was poised to get the ball back in 
But, as eoaeh Mark Hir.ht fre­good position to drive for a game­quently points out, it doesn't mat­winning fip,ld goal. Spurrier, in his tor how your team looks as long first year as the Gamecocks as it wins. eoach, was already ehatting with 
''I've learned to appreciate his offense on the sideline, fully nvery victory," he said, reflecting expecting the Bulldogs to be on Saturday's 17-15 victory over punting on the next play. the Gamecocks. ''I'm not going to But Shockley connected with apologiz1~ for it." Bryan MeClendon on a 27 -yard 
At least Georgia (2-0, 1-0 pass along the sideline, allowing Southeastern Conference) didn't Georgia to burn more than 5 1/2 meet the same fate as Ohio State, minutes o!T the clock. By the time Michigan and Iowa. teams that the Gamecocks did get the ball, it held down three of the top eight was at their own 22 with just places in The Associated Press 1:11 remaining-too far to go, poll going into the weekend. All too little time. three lost and tumbled in the "We should have won the rankings Sunday. game," Spurrier said. "We had 
Despite their less-than-impres­our chanees. There were a lot of Brown smacked the extra point were flagged for an illegal shift, sive victory, the Bulldogs moved ifs." off the upright to leave Georgia which left Spurrier shaking his up two spoL<; to No.7. South Carolina led 9-7 at half­ahead 7-6. On South Carolina's head along the sideline. 
''I'm proud of our guys," Riehl time and would have been up by next possession, Blake Mitchell South Carolina still had a said. "You always wonder how a bigger margin if not for a kick­directed a 12-play drive that con­chance to get back to the end your team is going to react to ing breakdown and a question­sumed more than six minutes. zone, receiving an automatie first some adversity. We wP.re losing at able penalty. Mitchell appeared to finish down at the 14 on a defensive the half, but the guys did a great Mter Johnathan Joseph picked things off by hitting Sidney Rice holding penalty. Daeeus Turman job of doing what they had to do o!T a tipped pass and returned it over the middle for a 20-yard ran for 4 yards, but Mitchell to win. Some people may not 42 yards fur a touchdown, Josh touchdown. But the Gamecocks threw two straight interceptions 
·.,' tJNIVERSITY··oF 
WASHINGTO 
' .. 
,~+* \~ ' .J =:; ': 
::~t:ft~~uT 
~tf<;f: i ~· ti 1',,
~'1'¥·k-~:~$' il'$! .· ,,,,,.,;p!; 
Stop by and see us ~tlCl3 Hurley Hall 
' 

T Brette A. Jackson, Program Coordinator 631-7251 bjackso3@nd.edu 

that brought on Brown for a 27­yard field goal. 
Georgia relied on its defense and running game in the second half. 
Paul Oliver picked o!T a pass at the South Carolina 32, 1-,Tiving the Bulldogs six interceptions in the first two games -more than they had all last season. 
page 26 .The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 12, 2005 
NFL 
Redskins defeat Bears in season opener, 9-7 
Three false starts kill Chicago's final drive 
Associated Press 
LANDOVER, Md. -The Chicago Bears were driving in Washington Redskins territory in the fourth quarter, seemingly poised to make a winner of a rookie quar­terback on opening day. 
Then, in one cruel sequence, the Redskins rattled the drive into oblivion. False start on Fred Miller. False start on John Tait. False start on Ruben Brown. Kyle Orton sacked by Demetric Evans. Suddenly, it was third-and-38. The Bears' last good scoring chance was over, and Washington's defense showed it hadn't lost a beat from last year in leading the team to a victory Sunday. 
"I guess they know we're a blitzing team," Washington line­backer Marcus Washington said with a smile as he recounted the sequence. "A couple of time~ we're looking like we're going to come, with one foot up and eyes big. Those guys, they kind of panic a little bit, and they say, This Washington defense is com­ing.' Whatever it was, we were glad we were able to back them 
-
up a little bit." 
The Redskins allowed only 166 total yards, overcame three turnovers, several untimely penalties and the loss of starter Patrick Ramsey, who had his neck wrung in the second quarter by blitzing linebacker Lance Briggs. Mark Brunell, booed mercilessly last year by the home fans, entered and led three scoring drives, all ending in field goals by John Hall and powered in part by the running of Clinton Portis, who rushed for 121 yards on 21 car­ries. 
Ramsey is fine with a mild neck sprain, but coach Joe Gibbs would not commit to a starter for next week's game at Dallas. Hall isn't fine -he strained his quad on his last kick and might not be able to play next week. 
Miami 34, Denver 10 
MIAMI -When the Miami Dolphins scored their first touch­down for new coach Nick Saban, 
-
he celebrated by pacing the side­line with a stoic expression. 
Randy McMichael strutted into end zone with the score, Jason Taylor jumped for joy and Gus Frerotte did a jig. But Saban kept his game face, well aware that one touchdown -and one wfu ­is merely a start. 
Frerotte led a creative offense by throwing for 275 yards, Taylor returned a fumble 85 yards for a score and Miami successfully kicked off the Saban era by rout­ing the Denver Broncos Sunday. 
"It's important how you respond to good things and bad things," Saban said. "We should enjoy this for 24 hours, but this is one game in a long season." 
It was a long day for the Broncos. They lost cornerback Champ Bailey and running back Mike Anderson to injuries, wilted in the 90-degree South Florida heat and fell to 0-7 in Miami'. 
"We knew it was going to be difficult to come in here and deal with the elements in their back­yard," said coach Mike Shanahan, now 10-3 in season openers with Denver and Oakland. 
New Orleans 23, Carolina 20 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.-Football is no longer a simple game for the 
New Orleans Saints. They'll play 
this season for the victims of 
Hurricane Katrina, a burden 
they'll carry every time they step 
on the field. 
The Saints won Sunday for 
their deluged dty and the dis­
placed victims of the Gulf Coast 
region, getting two touchdowns 
from Deuce McAllister and a 47­
yard field goal from John Carney 
with 3 seconds left in a season­
opening win over the Carolina 
Panthers. 
"In the back of our minds, we 
know we have to give them one 
tiny bit of hope," said New 
Orleans quarterback Aaron 
Brooks. "We have complete faith 
in what we are doing because 
every time we go out there, it is 
our job to givn them hope that 
every day will be a better day." 
The Saints have visited shelters 
in Louisiana, Mississippi and 
Texas, spending time with fans 
who had lost ,~verything. Each 
time they h,~ard the same · request: Win a game for us. 
If they needed another 
reminder, they got it during a 
Saturday night team meeting 
when coach Jim Haslett read an 
emotional letter from New 
Orleans Mayor C. Ray Nagin. 
"He talked about the things he 
had seen, babies dying," receiver 
Joe Horn said. "You would only 
see it in a horror story. People 
were crying on his shoulder, say­
ing they don't know where their 
son is, where the daughter is. 
Jacksonville 2H, Seattle 14 
JACKSONVJ LLE, Fla. 
Linebacker Mike Peterson 
grabbed the football, took two 
steps toward the sideline and 
heaved it as far as he could. His 
toss fell a fe\\ feet short of the 
stands. 
It was the most noticeable thing 
the Jacksomille Jaguars did 
wrong in the S{:ason opener. 
Jirnmy Smith caught seven 
passes for 130 yards and two 
touchdowns, Fred Taylor ran 
strong in his return from a seri­
ous knee injury and the Jaguars 
beat the Seattle Seahawks in 
draining heat and humidity 
Sunday. 
"My gloves were wet, man," 
said Peterson. trying to explain 
his wobbly pass intended for 
friends and facnily members. "At 
D D 
Jrlh ce 
-~­
o•o 
Jrlhce 


least I don't have to pay the fine now." 
Peterson was the only Jacksonville player feeling he had something left to prove. 
Smith, 36, showed he hasn't lost a step. Taylor broke tackles, took hard hits and gained 76 yards despite a bulky brace on his left knee. And quarterback­turned-receiver Matt Jones emerged as a triple threat in Jacksonville's new offense. 
The defense returned to form, too. 
Pittsburgh 34, Tennessee 7 
PITTSBURGH -The Tennessee Titans needed a scouting report on Steelers running back Willie Parker, so cornerback Michael Waddell issued this warning: Don't pay attention to his college career, this guy can run. 
Who knew he could run like this? 
Parker, a college backup who adds speed to the NFL:s most run­heavy offense, had a dazzling first career start with 161 yards rush­ing and a long reception, and a mistake-free Ben Roethlisberger threw for two scores in Pittsburgh's rout of Tennessee on Sunday. 
"He's got the kind of speed you can't coach," tackle Marvel Smith said. "He's a raw talent, basically, but he's so fast and he's just all over the place. He broke a lot of tackles out there." 
For more than 40 years, the Steelers have been all about big, physical backs who run over or elude tacklers: Hall of Farner John Henry Johnson, Franco Harris, Jerome Bettis and, last year, Duce Staley. Parker provides a speed element they've never had, and his yardage was the most for a Steelers back on open­ing day. 
"I really didn't take any hits in college, so my career's really just beginning," Parker said. "I had to make a name for myself, open up some eyes that I can play." 
Parke~ playing because of injuries to Bettis and Staley, near­ly equaled the 181 yards he had as a non-starting senior at North Carolina, where Waddell was his roommate. He followed up a 102­yard game against Buffalo to end last season. 
"The game plan is different with him, to take advantage of his speed," center Jeff Hartings said. "I don't know if there's another running back in the league who can get down the sideline as fast as he does." 
CCceoorJcerr ff®rr lErJ!hiJ{}';/3 (flllfJ cil llfcellileIJ® rn/3 TY(D!Jrnce:3 !Joo lB!¥1:3iJllfJ (/j/3(3 (flllfJci/ 
lloo:3rJIJrJrnrJce ff®rr lErJ!hfJ(J';(D!J l.Brn:31Jooce:3:3 fPY®rr!lcilw!Jcilce 

Berges Lecture Series in Business Ethics 
(Sponsored by the .John A. Berges Endo""ment) 
""Values-Based Leadership"" 
Harry Kraemer., Executive Partner at Madison Dearborn and :former CEO o:f Baxter International 
Tuesday., September 13., 2005 7:00p.m. Jordan Auditorium Mendoza Colle2e o:f Business 
Monday, September 12, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 27 
> 
NFL 
Culpepper's five turnovers doom Minnesota 
and-dealing offseason -came
Without Moss, Vikes 
within 29 seeonds of handing the New York JeL'i their first shutout in
fall to the Bucs, 24-13 
almost 10 years. Associated Press A victory Sunday over the mis­take-prone Jets proved a major 
MINNEAPOLIS-The Tampa pick-me-up for a defense which Bay Buc~ranenrs figurnd out how to thn past three years has never fin­finish a game, an instinct they've ished higher than 29th. bnPn lacking thn pm;t two seasons. "We rnally wanted that shutout That vidous. ball-hawking dnlimse at the end. I know our fans did, wm; back in liuniliar limn. too, a.'i too," said delimsivn end Erie Hicks. I>auntn Culpnppnr and the who blocked a field goal attempt Minnnsota Vikings linmd out. whnn rookie Mike Nugnnt slippc~d. 
The Buccannnrs forced l'ive "''m sorry we couldn't get it f(Jr turnowrs -including two intnr­thmn." rPptions by Brian Knlly -and Kansas City started fast on pullnd out a scrappy snason-opnn­oiTense, too-Larry Johnson ing 24-1 :{ victory ovnr thn Vikings ruslwd for 110 yards and two 
on Sunday. touchdowns on nine carries and 
"That's Llw typP of' thing wn mn Priest !Iohnes added 85 yards and do on dnli•nsn," Sinwon Hkn said. a touchdown. "WP want to do sonwthing spn­Spurred on by nnweonwrs likn rial." Sammy Knight, Patrick Surtain 
(:ulpPppc•r lost two l'umbiPs and and Derrick Johnson, the new­thn~w thn~!' INTs, tlw second cme look dnlimsn lili'C~nd sevnn fumbles glanring oil' MoP Williams' hands and rncovnrnd two. Chad and into Kelly's arms at Llw Tampa Pennington was sacknd three Bay (1-yard lim~ with I :45 lc~ll and times and intercepted onee. MiimPsota trailing by lhur. Curtis Martin was held to 57 
Tight nnd Alc~x Smith caught two yards on 20 carries -139 fewer touchdown passes and l'nllow than he had in last year's season rookin Carnell "Cadillac" Williams operwr against Cincinnati en route linishnd with 14S yards on 27 car­to the NFL rushing title. rins. including a 71-yard touch­"There's nothing like having tal­down run with I :23 remaining ent," said head coaeh Diek that smLiml it. Vermeil. "Our draft and free .> 
"I kept telling guys, 'I'm going to ageney were good, and then the brnak 'mn,"' Williams said. maturity of the kids that were Johnson, to lead the Dallas 36 next month, limped to his news 95 yards for a touchdown and 
Af'tnr winning thn Super Bowl in already here blended together. Cowboys to a win over the deiimd­conferenee about an hour later Chad Morton, Si!,1J11ld by the GianL'i the 2002-03 snason. the Bucs went Tahmted athletes make more tack­ing AFC West champion San Diego with gray in his hair and a scrully a week and a hall' ago, roturnnd a 12-20 over tlw last two years -les than average athletes." Chargers on Sunday. beard. punt 52 yards li1r another a<; Nnw losing 15 of' thosn by one touch­Backup Jay Fiedler enabled the "It is the best feeling in the world 'Til probably feel worse York aeeomplishnd both types of' down or less. But finally, the tide Jets to avoid their lirst shutout to have a close game come down (Monday), but I could play another returns in tl1e samo game lbr the turned their way in the fourth sinr.e Dec. 24, 1995, when he hit to just a r.ouple of plays and you game now," Favre said alter two of first time in 50 yoars. quarter. Chris Baker on a 23-yard touch­are able to do it," said Bledsoe, his three turnovers led to 10 poinL'i 11ki Barbnr and rookic~ Brandon 
"II' that's an evaluation of' what down pass with 29 seeonds to go. who became the 1Oth player in in a game in which scoring was .Jaeobs ran f(Jr touc~hdowns lilr tho we'rn capable of' doing," coaeh Jon "I wish we could have made NFL history to throw for 40,000 scarce, helping the Detroit Lions Giants, who scorod 21 points in Crudnn said. "that's a good sign." morn of' a game of it, but it was­yards. beat the Green Bay Packers tho tl1ird quarter to take command 
Coming oil' a earner-best season, n't," said Jets coach IIerman Bledsoe threw the winning 2-Sunday. "Inside, it hurts the most." of tho game. Culpc~pper looked more like a Edwards. "They took us behind yard touchdown pass with 3:06 The game marked the fewest The last time tho GianL'i scornd rookie than a thrmHime Pro Bowl thn woodshed and whupped us." left as Johnson beat cornerback points Green Bay scored with a'i many poinL'i wa'i Doc. 22, 2002 piek. lin finished 22-lin--:n lilr 233 Sammy Davis on a quick out. Favre as its starting quartnrback. when thny defeated Indianapolis yards. litiling to throw a TD pass Dallas 28, San Diego 24 'That third-down completion to Tampa Bay beat the Paekers :~1-44-27. The la'it tinw t.hoy rntunwd li1r thP first tinw in 22 games. SAN DIEGO-Except for one Keyshawn for the touchdown .. . I 3 on Sept. 13. 1992, two wonks a punt and kickoll' rnturn in tlw 
particularly brutal serins, Drew live lbr this stull'," Bledsoe said. before Favre began his record samc~ gamo was on Oct. :m. 1955 Kansas City 27, N.Y. Jets 7 Hindson's rnunion with Bill Parcells streak of starting 227 straight against Washin1,rton. 
KANSAS CITY. Mo. -llnrn's a is ofT to a wild and impressive Detroit 17, Green Bay 3 games, ineluding the playollk Playing against t.lw quartnrbark switch: Tlw Kansw; City dnlimse is start. DETHOIT -Brett Favre "We obviously have a ways to go who lwlpnd guide him through his apologizing for bning impnrl'nl:t, I lit and harassed all afternoon, slumpnd over in tho middle of' the ommsively," Favre said. "But if you rookh~ season with tlw Giants in not liw bPing awl'ul. Bledsoe responded like the veter­field al'ter his third turnover of tho would've told me we would seorn 2004, Manning finislwd IO-li1r-2:~ 
Tlw Chinls' rnvampnd dnlimse­an hn is, throwing thren touch­day. throe points. I would've said you for 1 n yards. the product of' a busy. wheeling-down passes, two to Knyshawn The three-time MVP, who turns were crazy." Aftor kicking a field goal in thn Indianapolis 24, Baltimore 7 seeond quartor, Green Bay didn't BAITIMOHE -An outstanding 
-
have a first down in thn second performance by tlw Indianapolis hall' until iL'i sixth drive. dnl'ensn nnablnd l'nyton Manning 
"It wasn't just us," Lions linn­to takn his timn bd'on~ finding a backer Earl llolmes said. "Thn way to gnt the ollimsP in working spncial teams bottled up their order. rnturn game and the ommso knpt Thn Colts barc~ly missml tlwir us oil' the field so we eould catch first shutout silu~n 1997. Manning our breath." throw two sneond-hall' touehdown 
Detroit won its openor lilr a third passes, and Indianapolis eruisnd straight year, but the Lions hopn past thn BaltimorP Hawns Sunday this season doesn't wind up liko night. the last two -or the two bof(m~ Manning could gPiwrate only that. Sinee 200 I, the Lions havn thmn poinL'i in the first hall', but it lost an NFL-high 48 gamns. didn't matt.nr lwcausP Baltinwrn 
.Joey Harrington threw two wouldn't cmd up sc:oring until tlw touchdown passes, including onn game's linalminutn. to rookie Mike Williams with 4:B "Our dnl'nnsn had to play wnll left. until wn figurnd out l.lw looks tlwy 
worn going to giw us," CoiLo.; coach 
N.Y. Giants 42, Arizona 19 'limy Dungy said. "WP just had to 
EAST HUTIIEHFOHD. N.J. -It hang in l.lwn~." was billed as a showdown Indianapolis seorPd two tourh­between mentor and apprentice. downs in tlw third quartnr to takP Instead of' Kurt Warnnr vs. Eli a 17-0 lnad, and tlw CoiLo.; r.oastnd Manning, the Nnw York Giants' behind a dnlimsn that n~mivnd fi~w special teams stole the show JwadlirH~s IILo.;t ynar whiln Manning Sunday. threw an NFI.-rncord 49 tour.h­
Manning bounced bark from a down passes for an oll'nnsn that poor lirst hall' to throw l'or two amassnd a lnagun-lnading 522 touchdowns in New York's win poinL'i. over the Arizona Cardinals. But "So often, our ollimsn gnL'i a lot the Giants' highest-scoring game of' crndit," del'nnsivc~ taekln Con~y in more than two seasons had as Simon said. "They'vn donn gn~at much to do with kiek returns as it things, but it's time li1r the dnlimse did Warner being upstaged by his to get a name for ourselves and former teammate. play hard and be just a<; good as 
Willie Ponder returned a kickoff our offense." 


~~----­

r---­
[ 
page 28 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 12, 2005 
~ 
I I 
NCAA FooTBALL 
Young, No.2 rfexas knock off No.4 Ohio State 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio -Vince Young did what star quarter­backs do, passing his team to a victory, and making the Texas Longhorns look as if this could be the season they come up big in the biggest of games. 
Best known for his highlight­reel runs, Young threw a 24-yard go-ahead touchdown to Limas Sweed with 2:37 left and No. 2 Texas defeated No. 4 Ohio State 25-22 Saturday night in the much-anticipated first meeting between two of college football's most storied programs. 
While it's a long way to the Rose Bowl, Texas validated itself as a prime contender to Southern California's crown. Ohio State, meanwhile, will have to win out to even have a shot at a national title. 
Young's floating touchdown pass over a defender capped a 67-yard drive that started with five minutes left after Josh Huston, who made school-record five field goals, missed a 50­yarder. 
The biggest plays came on Young's passes, including a third­and-6 completion of 9 yards to Jamaal Charles. Young's second TD pass of the game made the score 23-22. 
"Sweed came off the ball real good and I threw the ball to the outside so he could go out of bounds or make the great play and Sweed made a great play for us," said Young, who threw for 270 yards. 
The Longhorns' 'D,' which time and time again held firm after turnovers and special teams gave Ohio State good field position, had the biggest takeaway of the game when Drew Kelson stripped a scrambling Justin Zwick and Brian Robison recov­ered and returned it inside the 20. 
Ohio State (1-1) held the Longhorns (2-0} out of the end zone, but Larry Dibbles sacked Troy Smith for a safety and Texas coach Mack Brown had his sec­ond straight huge victory over a Big Ten team. 
The Longhorns defeated Michigan in the Rose Bowl, when-Young launched his 2005 
I 
Heisman Trophy campaign with 
192 yards rushing. 
Young proved against the 
Buckeyes he can pass it when he 
needs to as well. 
"Obviously ho's a great run­
ner," Ohio State linebacker A.J. 
Hawk said. "Tonight he showed 
us he's a great passer." 
One Ohio Stato player had said 
the Buckeyes' goal was to put an 
end to Young's Heisman cam­
paign. And while Bobby 
Carpenter and Ohio State's swift 
linebacking crew hemmed in 
Young after some good runs 
early, they couldn't stop his pass­
ing. 
"When you have to play extra 
people in the box to stop his run 
it's going to leave 
you a bit vulnerable to the 
pass," Ohio State coach Jim 
Tressel said. "I thought he played 
hard. He kept getting hit and 
beat up and kept coming back. 
And his team won." 
Young also had made a couple 
of those poor decisions and bad 
throws -he was intercepted 
twice -that have caused him to 
be labeled a tailback playing 
quarterback. 
But he finished 18-for-29 and 
ran 20 times for 76 yards. 
Tressel was tme to his promise, 
playing both Zwick and Smith at 
quarterback. Neither distin­
guished himself, and it looks like 
the quarterback competition will 
resume for the Buckeyes. 
Smith ran for 27 yards, threw a 
touchdown pass to Santonio 
Holmes and led Ohio State on five 
scoring drives. 
Zwick was 9-for-15 for 66 
yards and led Ohio State to one 
field goal. 
Ohio State came up with three 
turnovers in Texas territory, but 
the Buckeyes could only manage 
three field goals against defen­
sive end Tim Cr•)Wder and Co. 
And when T·~d Ginn Jr.'s 46­
yard kickoff return got the 
Buckeyes to around midfield in 
the third quarter, they again 
drove inside th·~ 20, only to stall 
when Ryan Hamby let a sure TD 
pass pop off his chest. 
Huston knocked his final field 
goal of the game through to tie a 
record last accc•mplished by Mike 
Nugent, the All-American he 
replaced this :>eason, and give 
t t 
days! 


Et1joy adouble order of chicket1, steak or cot~tbo fajitas (et1ough for 1Wo) for ju!rt *11!* 

• •i
C liS. 

& BAR) 
MISHAWAKA 4-810 trape Rd. · Z71..1SS(I 
'Offer valid wery Mo11day II a.111. to close. 



AP 
Texas quarterback Vince Young lunges forward in the first quarter of a 25-23 Texas win over 
Ohio State at Ohio Stadium in Columbus, Ohio Saturday night. 
Ohio State a 22-16lead with 5:12 left in the third. 
"I was walking down the side­lines telling the guys, 'We've been though this (before) play by play,"' Young said. "The defense is going to give us the ball and they did a great job." 
Ginn, Ohio State's big play spe­cialist, was only a factor on spe­cial teams. He caught two passes for nine yards. 
For Brown, the ballyhooed matchup was another opportuni­ty to try to prove to critics that he can, indeed, win the big games. 
It's a reputation mostly built on five straight losses to rival Oklahoma and no Big 12 titles, despite winning at least 10 games the past four seasons. 
Brown took a step toward shedding that tag by beating Michigan in the Rose Bowl and another big one Saturday night. 
"I don't think you ever silence critics," Brown said."They'll be critics in the morning, that's part of the deal." 
Tressel dropped to 6-2 against opponents ranked in the top 10. 
"Our goal was to win the national championship that's remote now," Buckeyes guard Rob Sims said. 
Zwick got the start over Smith, 
DRAFTING DIVERSITY 
who was returning from an NCAA suspension, and played the first two series as Texas built a 10-0 lead. 
Smith, who's kind of a Vince Young-lite, gave the Buckeyes a lift with his running, and tossed a 36-yard TD pass to Holmes that tied the game at 10. 
Hawk then came up with an interception and fumble recovery on consecutive series to give Ohio State the ball deep in Texas terri­tory. 
Both times the Longhorns stiff­ened and made the Buckeyes set­tle for field goals of 37 and 25 yards by Huston. 
ENHANCING OUR CULTURAL COMMUNITY 
A Leadership Training Retreat Friday-Saturday September 30-0ctober 1 
Want to develop retreat leadership skills in a culturally diverse setting? Need to develop the language and confidence when speaking of cultural diversity in the classroom or in private conversations? Need a change from homogeneity? 
If you answered yes to any of these questions, sign up for the · DDECC Leadership Retreat today! It's new and one of a kind! 
To register, e-mail Chandra Johnson at cjohnson 7@nd.edu. Registration deadline is Friday, September 16. For further information contact Covington Doan (cdoan@nd.edu) or Melanie Berge (mberge@nd.edu). 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry and Multicultural Student Programs and Services. 
~Merrill Lynch SHARE OUR PASSION MERRILL LYNCH PRE-SENTATION 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME seniors are invited to attend: Tuesday, September 13, 2005 6:00-8:00 pm Center for Continuing Education, McKenna Hall, Room 102 
Whether you look at us in terms of people, culture, products or our virtually limitless possibilities, Merrill Lynch defines "exceptional" in every sense of the word. It's a source of pride for all of us who work here. And a source of exceptional careers for those eager to share in our passion for doing great things. 
Attend our presentation. And let's explore the possibilities together. 
Full-time opportunities: Investment Banking 
EXCEPTIONAL WITHOUT EXCEPTION 

page 30 The Observer + SPORTS Monday, September 12, 2005 
SMC SoccER 

Belles drop road game against Flying Dutch 
Early morning road trip leads to sloppy play, 2-0 loss to Hope 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

The rigors of travel, time and a tough oppo.nent caused the Belles trouble in a close­fought 2-0 defeat at the hands of the Flying Dutch of Hope College. 
The game, played at noon at Hope, worked against the Belles even prior to the start of the game. 
The long road trip in the early morning hours, along with the loss of an hour due to time zone differences, did not contribute to an .energetic 
Saint Mar) 's soccer team entering the pitch. 
These conditions would hin­der even thEJ most dominant team playing an inferior oppo­nent, but th'3 Belles were not playing a pushover -Hope is the cream of the MIAA crop and always a tough competitor for the women of Saint Mary's. 
Belles coach Caryn Mackenzie V\ as concerned that her players were not given the most ideal C·Jnditions to win a key MIAA conference game. 
"Hope just took advantage of [the inhibiting conditions];" she said. "They came with high energy, just out-pos­sessed and out-played us in the first half." 
The Flying Dutch registered their first g;oal shortly after the opening whistle, tickling the twine at the eight minute 

mark. Hope's Kristin Krcmar dribbled the ball into Saint Mary's penalty box and shot a cross over the middle to Linnae Klompmaker. Klompmaker headed the ball towards the back post, driving past the Belle's Laura Heline (5 saves) for the score. 
"The first lgoall was really great," Mackenzie said. "It was really hard to stop it, just how well it was timed. We did­n't defend it very well -it was a bit of a breakdown defensively for tis." 
Hope's control of the game did not end following the quick tally -18 minutes later the Flying Dutch added the insurance goal. Sarah Cochrane notched the tally unassisted past a tiring Belles' defense. 
The Belles reversed the flow of the game once the second half began, but could not put the ball past Hope goalkeeper Holly Nestle (seven saves on 10 shots). 
"We kept pressing, pressing but couldn't put the ball in the net," Mackenzie said. 
The Belles have been score­less for the past 270 minutes of play, their last goal coming in a double overtime victory over SUNY-Brockport in the Marietta College Classic. 
"It puts more pressure on the forwards than I wanted too," Mackenzie said. 
But that is not to say that there has been a lack of strong play from the Belles' attackers and midfielders. Carolyn Logan and Cat MacMillan tried to spark the fuse that would ignite a Belles' offensive explosion, but 
were unable to complete the feat. 
On defense, Carrie Orr was the backbone for the defensive four that handled the Flying Dutch attack competently, along with goaltender Heline, but did not receive the sup­port on offense necessary for victory. 
"It's back to the drawing board in terms of playing on the road," Mackenzie said. "I think we are about ready to turn a corner, so hopefully that will come to fruition on our home fie! d, after two weeks of playing on the road." 
The Belles will take these hopes into another. MIAA match-up with Albion College at home on Wednesday. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@nd.edu 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

LSU opens season in wake of Hurricane Katrina disaster 
Tigers' original first 

game was postponed 
after storm hit land 
Associated Press 

For LSU, football has a stark look this season. 
"This is not a made-for-TV movie," coach Les Miles said. "This was a real-life trauma where friends and family had to stay in the dorms and the town swelled to take in the New Orleans evacuees. We are treating people that are injured and disadvantaged 200 yards from our stadium. We have a scrimmage, and Blackhawk helicopters are fly­ing people from New Orleans over our heads." 
The fifth-ranked Tigers trav­eled halfway across the coun­try to play their "home" open­er Saturday night -a 35-31 victory over No. 15 Arizona State in Miles' debut as LSU's coach.
-The game should have been the second this season in Baton Rouge, La., but Hurricane Katrina washed out the opener against North Texas on Sept. 3. A week later, the Tigers were in Tempe, forced off campus by the 
influx of pE:ople who turned the basketball arena into what athletic director Skip Bertman called the largest triage center in the United States. 
"Our team has had the longest camp in the history of camps," Miles said. 
On Saturday night, JaMarcus Russell hoo1wd up with Early Doucet for a 39-yard touch­down on fourth down with 
1:13 to go to win it for the Tigers. 
This waE hardly smooth going for LSU. The Tigers committed 11 penalties for 100 yard;; and allowed Arizona State's Sam Keller to pass for four TDs and more yards (461) than LSU's team total (434). 
But LSU played like a national titlEJ contender at the end, outscoring Arizona State 28-14 in the fourth quarter with contributions everywhere -offense, defense and special teams. 
Even after Russell rolled right, reversed direction and threw an against-the-grain floater that Doucet grabbed and came down with his right foot in, th1~ defense had its work cut out. Keller went to work with 27-and 25-yard completiors, setting up the 

Sun Devils (1-1) on the LSU 28 with just under a minute left. 
Then the Tigers, who had to replace current NFL corner­backs Corey Webster and Travis Daniels this season, forced Keller into four straight incompletions and got the ball back. 
"I've never been in a game like this," defensive tackle Kyle Williams said. "It's good to come to Tempe and play against a good team that had one game up on us. We fought hard on both ends." 
The special teams made a 
big contribution. Mario Stevenson returned a field­goal attempt 55 yards after Claude Wroten blocked it, and Craig Steltz returned a blocked punt 29 yards 1:20 later, sending LSU to its first lead, 21-17, with 13:27 remaining. 
Joseph Addai scored two short-yardage TDs and had 109 yards on 16 carries. 
Keller was 35-of-56 for 461 yards in his third game as a starter, throwing scoring pass­es of 25 and 26 yards to Jamaal Lewis, 8 yards to Rudy Burgess and 4 yards to Mocy Mutz. 
Derek Hagan and Terry Richardson each had seven catches, and Hagan finished with 191 career receptions to move past John Jefferson (1974-77) for first in school history. 
"We had a couple of soft spots, and they were just mak­ing good plays against the calls we had," Steltz said. "We have an off-week coming up, and that is going to be some­thing that we improve on and get ready for Tennessee." 
·-~ 

AN OPPORTI!NITY IN INVESTMENT BANKING 
The most exciting opportunities on Wall Street aren't always on Wall Street. 
The middle market is a vibrant and dynamic place with plenty of investment banking career opportunities. Harris Williams & Co. is one of the largest mergers and acquisitions advisory firms in rhe counrry focused exclusivcly"on the middle market, and our success, reputation, and people are why we were named Investment Bank of the Year for 2004. At Harris Williams & Co. you'll be in the middle of this exciting market, learning from the best. You'll be actively involved in live M&A transactions and you'll interact with the finest private equity groups and corporations worldwide. Ifyou have a proven track record of excellence in and out of the classroom and want to be part of a growing investment banking firm wirh a highly motivated team, come talk to us. 
Named 2004 Investment Bank of the Year by Buyouts Magazine. 
RECRUITING NOTRE DAME SENIORS 
FOR INVESTMENT BANKING ANALYST POSITIONS 
Important dates at Notre Dame: Company Presentation Tuesday, September 13, 2005 6:30pm in the Morris Inn, Alumni Room 
Business Career Fair Wednesday, September 14, 2005 3:00-8:00 pri1 in the Joyce Center 
Resume Drop Date Sunday,-September 25, 2005 
On Campus Interview Date Friday, October 07, 2005 
For more on Harris Williams & 
Ifyou have any questions contact: Matthew Hanculak '04 Notre Dame Recruiting Captain, 804-648-0072 mhanculak@harriswilliams.com 
Patrick Nally '04 Notre Dame Recruiting Captain, 804-648-0072 pnally@harriswilliams.com 
Jennie Parker Garofalo Recruiting Director, 804-648-0072 jgarofalo@harriswilliams.com 
Co, please visit www.harriswilliams.com. 
Harris Williatns&Co. 
middle market· 


·I 

AP 

LSU players celebrate during their win over Arizona State Saturday_ The Tigers opener against North TE~xas was postponed due to Hurricane Katrina. 
Monday, September 12, 2005 page 31
The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Irish take first in Valpo Invitational 
Freshman Rodriguezftnishes second to lead Notre Dame to win 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
Chris Hodriguez startnd his col­lege earner with a bang. 
The frnshman finished second ovnrall with a time of 26:01 to lnad Notre Dame to a win at tho Crusadnr Invitational Friday at Sunset llills Park in Valparaiso, Ind. 
Hodriguez attributnd his sue­c~nss to continuing to li1el strong deep into tho race. 
"I was li1Clling good, so I tried to go as fast as I could, and it workNI out," he said. 
Although it didn't show in his performance, Hodrigunz said tho transition from fivn-kilomnter 
(3.1 mile) races to eight-kilome­ter (5 milo) races was diiTicult. 
"Coing from 5K to HK is a huge dill"nrnnce," he said. "I delinitnly l'nlt it wlwn I got to the 5K point. I li11l like I should bn done, but I was only a litlle over half way." 
Hodriguez said thn longer dis­tances have. been noticeable in praetien as well. 
"J put in tho work this summer to prnparn, but training has still bc11m hard," lw said. 
Irish coach Joe Piano sent a young squad to the meet in order to crnate depth and rest front­runners Tim Moore, Kurt Benninger and Kaleb Van Ort, among others. Notre Dame still won the six-team meet with a scorn of 26 points, besting seeond place Oakland by nine points. 
Hodriguez led the way, but only 11 seconds behind him was Irish sophomore Zach Einterz, who finished third. Four more Irish runners finished in the top 10: sophomore James Millar took sixth, sophomore Brett Adams was seventh, sophomore Dan Bradley placed eighth and fresh­man Mark Monro finished ninth. 
Sophomore Mike Popejoy, sen­ior Tom Longo and freshman Kevin McFadden also competed. All linished in the~ top 30 of the 82-man field. 
Hodrigunz said the freshmen mainly ran together apart from the upperdassmen in pre-season training in order to ease their transition to collegiate distances. lie said that because of this, ho didn't realize how fast he and the others had become. 
"I wasn't running with the top guys. [Instead[ I was running with the freshmen, so I didn't have anyone to compare myself to," Hodriguez said. 
Oakland runner Adam Freezer was the individual ehampion, but fourth runner Paul Kulesik eould not get past the Irish pack of Millar, Adams, Bradley and Moore, and the Golden Grizzlies fell to seeond plaee. 
The meet featured mostly small schools. Western Illinois was a distant third with 110 points, followed by St. Joseph's and IUPUI. 
Valparaiso and Wisconsin­Green Bay tied for sixth, and Chieago State finished eighth with 260 points. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY 
Young teatn gets third at Valpo 
Underclassmen gain 
. . ' 
experzence zn year s opening competition 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
Late summer heat and inexpe­rience took their toll on the Notre Dame women's cross country team Friday at the Crusader Invitational. 
The Irish tallied 72 points to match last year's third plaee fm­ish at the event, but coach Tim Connelly was not pleased with his team's results. 
"This was definitely not our best effort this afternoon," Connelly said. "We've trained a lot better than this, and I was disappointed at the way things turned out." 
The Irish chose to s1md their younger, less expnrienced run­ners to Valparaiso in an effort to build their conlidonce and give them the opportunity to race. 
Notre Dame's top runners con­tinued to train over the week­end. 
Junior Ann Mazur was the first Notre Dame runner to eross the line, finishing sixth in 2:~ minutes, 30 seconds for the six­kilometer course. Other Irish athletes who finished in the top 20 included freshman Boeea Bauman, who finished ninth in her first collegiate raee (23:35), sophomore Julie Opet (16th, 
23:41) and sophomore Allyson Parker (19th, 23:52). Loryn King, the lone eompotitor with significant top-seven experience, finished 25th. The senior com­peted in her first race in several months after sustaining an injury during the track season. 
Connelly said that tho heat adversely affected his runners as the race wore on. Temperatures approached 80 degrees by raee time Friday aftnrnoon. 
"We told them not to go out so fast beeause of the heat, but they did," Connelly said. "They got in trouble in the middle part of the race and had to deal with it. Some of thmn were able to compete and l'ight it, others worn not." 
Connelly saw a few bright spol'i in Friday's raee, induding the pnrlilrmanen of his top two finishers, Mazur and Bauman. 
"I did like thn raee that Ann and Bncea ran, but as a group, we should have done better," Connelly said. 
The Irish eoaeh fnlt his team was physically rnady to sueennd at Valparaiso, but also said that the intense training, eombined with a lack of experience, may have been rnasons for the subpar pnrforrnanee. Ito said his runners wore not rnstnd enter­ing the meet. 
Connelly made it dear, howev­er, that the goal is for his run­ners to bc1 in the best possible condition at the cmd of the sea­son and would sacrifice results in early sl1ason raees to mont this goal. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles take fifth at Wooster Invite 
Saint Mary's bounces back from two opening losses with three wins 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team's performance at the Wooster Invitational this week­end was most accurately summed up in one word. 
Hesilient. 

After losing their first two matches of the tournament Friday, the Belles roared back to win three straight matches Saturday, capturing fifth place out of eight teams. 
Belles coach Julie Schroeder­Hick was proud of her team's weekend effort. 
"We showed a as we could." 

The Bolles pulled together Saturday morning, opening with a three-game sweep over Blufl'ton, 30-23, 30-22, 30-19. St. Mary's follownd its first win of the tournament with a four­game victory over Point Park, 26-30, 30-25, 30-H>, 30-H1. The Belles cap­tured the fifth­

lot of heart, place match in a
"We showed a lot 
espeeially on four-game decision 
ofheart, especially 
Saturday," over Bluff'ton 30­Schroeder-Biek on Saturday." 21, 22-30, 30-28, said. "We had 30-17. good spirit and Entering the
Julie Schroeder-Biek 
foeus." tournament,
Irish head coach 
Schroeder-Biek
Saint Mary's opened the tournament by facing undefeated Mt. Vernon. The Belles lost in three straight games, 30-16, 30-11, 30-25. Schroeder-Biek felt her team was somewhat flat in the tour­nament opener. 
"We didn't step it up like I thought we could," she said. "Our serve reeeption struggled, and when you can't pass the ball effectively, it's diflieult to get any offense going." 
The Belles next faced peren­nial power Muskingum. They again fell in three games, 30­17, 30-22, 30-24. Schroeder­
Sick said her team picked up its level of play in the second match and competed well, but it wasn't enough to get a win. 
rollowing two Friday losses and fac­ing a three­match losing streak, the 
"Our serve reception 
The Bellns struggled and when had three dill'nr­ent players lead
you can't pass the ball 
in kills (Kristen
effectively, it's difficult 
Playko with 59), to get any offense digs (Michnlle going." Turley with 57) and assists (Amanda David 
Julie Schroeder-Biek 
with 132) over Irish head coach the weekend. 
Belles refocused and set new goals for Saturday's contnsts. 
"After losing the first two matches, the best wo could lin­ish was fifth," Schroeder-Biek said. "We made that our goal for Saturday, to finish as high 
emphasized focus 
and mental tough­ness, something she felt was lacking in a loss earlier in the week to Hope College. Saturday's effort showed that the Belles responded to their coach. 
"We showed a lot of perse­verance," Sehronder-Biek said. "We stuek to our goals and pulled together as a team. Everyone played for their teammates." 
Schroeder-Biek felt that her team's balance over the week­end was one of their strong points. Statistics from the 
weekend sup­
port her case. 

Saint Mary's 
will look to con­tinue its throe-match winning streak when it hosts confnr­ence foe Olivot Collogo Tuesday. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 

page 32 Monday, September 12, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 
SMC GOLF 
Belles struggle against Division I competition 
Mattia paces Saint Mary's in mostly large school tournament 
By ANNA FRICANO 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's golf team faced a multitude of challenges this weekend at the Notre Dame Invitational, not includ­ing the host of Division-I pro­grams that took part in the tournament. Unfamiliar territo­ry, uncomfortable temperatures and unexpected illness all pro­vided extra difficulty for the Belles, who accepted an invita­tion to be the only Division-III team at the annual event, host­ed by the Notre Dame women's golf team. 
Saint Mary's finished in last place out of 17 teams at the invitational, which Notre Dame won. The Irish finished nine strokes ahead of the runner-up, the University of Toledo, which was followed by Georgetown in third place. 
The weekE:nd marked the fourth time in six years that the Irish have elaimed the title at their home tournament. 
Five Saint Mary's women competed in lhe 54-hole tour­nament, which took place at Warren Golf Course, but senior and co-captain Nicole Bellino was forced to withdraw before the third round due to illness. 
Senior Meg.:m Mattia led the way for the Belles, finishing in 68th place oyerall with scores consistently in the mid-80s. Kirsten Fantom, also a senior and eo-captain for Saint Mary's, showed scores that reflected the general tJ·end of the team. 

Fantom struggled in the first round. finishing at 94, but improved her score by nine strokes in the second round. 
"Overall, I think we were pretty proud of sticking it out," Fantom said."I think we expected our numbers to be a little lower, but we shouldn't be ashamed at all of how it ended up." 
The invitational marked the first of its kind in which the Belles have competed, being a three-round tournament taking place over two days. And the· Warren Golf Course, located just northeast of campus, pro­vided a challenge in itself for Saint Mary's, which initially struggled on the greens. Their scores reflected the level of confidence they were able to gain after having played a round on Saturday. 
"Once we got over getting 
used to the greens we were able to get down our scores," Fantom said. 
The team went from an over­all score of 369 in the first round to 350 in the second round. The Belles were hin­dered in yesterday morning's third and final round, having only four golfers after Bellino withdrew. The team finished the last round with a score of 374. 
If there was one factor that the Belles did not let get to them, it was the level of intimi­dation that comes with being the only Division-III school up against 16 D-1 programs. 
Although Saint Mary's fin­ished in last place in the tour­nament, they were in no way blown out of the water by the competition. They were, for the most part, able to keep up with all of the groups in the tourna­ment. 
"I think it's good every once in awhile for Division-III teams to play bigger competition," Fantom said. "There's no rea­son to feel intimidated, [because) we're a good team overall. These girls are almost all scholarship -we just play for the love of the game." 
The 54 holes of golf that the women played this weekend should do well to prepare them for the first major competition of the year. On Wednesday, the Belles will travel to Calvin College to compete in the first MIAA competition of the sea­son. Expectations will continue to be high for the team, which hopes to capture its fourth MIAA title in a row. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

NCAA FooTBALL 
Oklahoma struggles to replace former quarterback 
Without 2003 Heisrnan winner Jason White, Sooner offense stalls 
Associated Press 
Perhaps now Oklahoma fans truly appreciate Jason White. 
With the best quarterback in school history gone after six long years, the Sooners would probably do just about anything to have him -bad knees and all -back for a seventh sea­son. 
Neither of his two successors have been able to lead the Oklahoma offense with any level of success, and the No. 21 Sooners (1-1) decided a game and a half into their season that it might be better to go without the pass than to have either Rhett Bomar or Paul Thompson throwing the ball. 
The Sooners had 42 yards passing in Saturday's 31-15 win against Tulsa, their lowest total since throwing for 38 yards against Syracuse in 1997. The Sooners had never thrown for less than 100 yards in Bob Stoops' 80 previous games as Oklahoma's coach. They had only 12 8 passing yards in a 17­10 loss to TCU in Week 1. 
We need to develop a passing game that our players can exe­cute," Stoops said. "For what­ever reason for the past two weeks, what we have been doing hasn't been productive. That is being about as kind as r· can be. 
"We are not going to continue to go through the year like this and not be able to throw the football some " 
Adrian Peterson bailed out the Sooners a.gainst Tulsa, run­ning for 220 yards on 32 car­ries with three touchdowns. 
After going without a pass attempt in the second half against Tulsa. Stoops and offen­sive coordinator Chuck Long plan to thorc ughly re-evaluate -and not just the quarter­backs. They'll also examine whether jhfl team's current receivers can execute the same plays as thne receivers taken in the NFL draft during the off­season. 


"When we're as unproductive in two games as we've been, we have got to really be critical of what we're doing and what we're asking them to do," Stoops said. "Just because it's worked for us in the past, and it's worked well, doesn't mean it's going to." 
The coaches declined to say whether there might be anoth­er change at quarterback, but said the competition for the position will continue. 
Long said he never consid­ered replacing Bomar with Thompson. 
"We felt good about him being in there," Long said. "He's in command. He's good on the sideline. We wanted to keep that rhythm going if we could." 
White, who would win the Heisman Trophy in 2003, threw for 343 yards when he made his first collegiate start in 2001 against Baylor, but by that time he had already played in sever­al games as a backup over the course of 2 1/2 seasons. Bomar's first start came in his second game, with a receiving corps that includes four fresh­men. 
"You can slice it every way you want, but we're young and starting over," Long said. "I thought these guys had a little growth." 
Bomar was more confident than the coaches in his analysis of Oklahoma's passing game. 
"We have the plays that will work and we know what to do," Bomar said. 
International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 

INNSBRUCK 
and Berlin 
2006-2007 Acadenzic Year 
Please Join Prof. Hannelore Weber and returnees of the program 
Question: "Can I Really Spend a Year Away from ND?'' Answer: "It Was the Best Year of My Life!" 
Tuesday,Sept.13,2005 118 DEBARTOLO 5:00-6:30 pm 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
Questions?-Weber.15@nd.edu Application Deadline: Nov. 15,2005 
Monday, September 12, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 33 
Title  Clark was surprised by the drop in the levnl of play. "I honestly thought the second  play. Norman and junior defend­er Ryan Miller were both credit­ed with assists on the goal. Miller  American Chris .Sawyer in goal. Cahill has emerged, however, and probably solidified his hold  out with a groin injury, Miller, junior captain Greg Dalby, senior Ben Crouse and freshman Jack  
continued from page 36  half we opened terribly," Clark said. "We were shocking for the  sent a long pass across the field to Norman. When the St. Louis  of the starting job with back-to­hack shutouts this weekend.  Traynor made up the defensive back for the Irish this weekend.  
first 15 minutes. I don't know  defense shifted left, Lapira faded  "Cahill is doing amazing in the  Clark said he thought the defend­ 
junior goalkeeper Chris Cahill  what happened.  We  usually  to the back post, and Norman  back," Lapira said. "We had no  ers had a superb tournament.  
recorded his first collegiate  come out in the second half and  found  him  for the  ·  idea who was going  The coach is pleased that Notre  
shutout on two saves. The Irish started slow against the Terriers but came to life after  really take it to them, but we lost it a little bit there." The Irish gradually regained  game-winner. Clark praised Miller for setting up  "Cahill is doing amazing in the  to start at the begin­ning of the year, and he has stepped it  Dame finally seems to be coming together as a unit. "I think this team is now  
halllime.  control of the game, but still  the play.  back."  up."  becoming a  team in its  own  
"Tiw first half was back and  could not find the back of the  "The  ball  that  Clark likes what  right," Clark said. "And that's  
forth and pretty even," Norman said. "But we dominated them in the second half."  net. Lapira, Norman, senior for­ward Tony Megna and junior midfielder Ian Etherington all  made the goal was the diagonal from Miller," Clark said.  Bobby Clark Irish head coach  the tall, athletic Cahill brings to the position.  always the interesting thing you have to do at the start." Notrn Dame will open Big East  
The tnam carried that momen­ had scoring opportunities that  "That was a hell of a  "He's just a huge  play Friday with a game against  
tum into the first half of Sunday's  could not be converted.  ball. It was unbelievable."  big  bird  in  there  with  big  St. John's in Now York. Clark  
game against St. Louis. The Irish  Cahill had no doubts the Irish  Norman has been a bright spot  wingspan," Clark said. "lie's  looks forward to the stiff chal­ 
startml strong, with Lapira and  would score, though.  for the Irish ofl'ensive attack all  hard to beat, and he's brave. lie's  lenge  that the talented  Hnd  
several teammates challenging  "I knew the whole time that  year. With Friday's goal and  done phenomenally well."  Storm should poso.  
the Billiken defnnse time and  we'd get one," the Irish keeper  Sunday's assist, the midfielder's  Cahill deflects all of the praise  "St. John's will be another test,  
time again. The Irish had eight  said. "Our forwards had been  team-leading season points total  to  Notre  Dame's defenders,  and that's great," Clark said.  
shots in the first half compared  working really hard, and I knew  has roached five.  though.  "But we'll enjoy this one for one  
to only three for St. Louis.  that they'd eventually stick one  The talk of the tournament was  "I can't really take all of the  day anyway."  
Notre Damn snemed to come  in."  Cahill's play in goal. Entering the  credit, because our back four  
out sluggish for the second peri­ Lapira finally did just that with  year, Clark was not positive who  played really well," Cahill said.  Contact Kevin Brennan at  
od, though. Head coach Bobby  just under three minutes left to  would replace graduated all- With senior captain Dale Rellas  kbrenna4@nd.edu  

Irish gelled. Everyone played, Heintzman filled in for fresh­and everyone contributed. man Mallorie Croal, who collid­
Sweep 
"It was a really great team ed with a teammate in the sec­effort," Brewster said. ond Florida game and was out
continued from page 36 
"Everyone suited up for the with a concussion. While senior 
first time. We're outside hitter Dame has said it expects great really excited "We're really excited Lauren Kelbley things. After solid wins against because it wasn't had a career-high
because it wasn't a

Michigan, then-No. 11 Texas a couple of indi­29 kills against and Arizona State, the Irish viduals that were couple ofindividuals USC, senior mid­knew they were good. They doing well, it was that were doing dle blocker elaimed they weren't under­the whole team Carolyn Cooper
well, it was the

dogs against the mighty lineup coming together." pounded 11 kills they would face in San Antonio. Notre Dame's whole team coming against Florida. 
And Friday through Sunday, two injured soph­together." Seldom-played they backed up their talk. They omores returned. senior Kelly not only walked, they strutted. Adrianna Stasiuk, Burrell made her
Lauren Brewster

And while thn Irish quickly say who missed the first appearance they aren't cocky alrnady, first three match­Irish co-captain this season in the thny'vn cnrtainly got a growing es of the season, Oklahoma match. contidencn. and Ellen Heintzman, who She sparked her team with an 
"We have so much confidence missed every match but the outstanding block and a set in each other right now," first one, played a major role in assist. Brewster said. "I don't think the Irish victories. Stasiuk had "It's great because we had we're cocky by any means. I a team-high 24 digs against the Ithe sophomores I back," don't think we're over-confi­Gators. She played libero dur­Brewster said. "We had dent." ing the first two games and at IStasiukl going back between 
In the thn~e matches, the opposite the final game, while libero and the outside. She did 
ichael Novak 
or ofSocial and Political Studies, American Enterprise Institute and rge Frederick Jewell Chair in Religion, Philosophy, and Public Policy, American Enterprise Institute 
Business as a Calling 

.~ ~ .t 

Friday, September 16, 2005
CALLING 
4:00p.m. to 5:00p.m. 
1-.\ t.W,\'fU (,It·~ 
Jordan Auditmium 
·~ 
·-. .,~ 

Mendoza College of Business
MtCHAFI. NovAK 

Sponsored by: Mendoza College of Business Center for Ethics and Culture Jacques Maritain Center 
UNIVERSITY ' OF NOTRE DAME 
For information: (574) 631-3277 
MENDOZA COLLEGE OF BUSINESS 
a great job at either position. 
"Against Florida, in the sec­ond game, Ellen Heitzman came in for [Croal) and did a great job, had some great shots, so it was great to be able to see her and Madison Clark come off the bench and really contribute right away." 
The Irish were scheduled to play in the Sugar Bowl Classic in New Orleans this weekend, but the tournament has been cancelled because of Hurricane Katrina and the tragic situation in New Orleans. Their next scheduled match is Sept. 25 against Big East foe Seton Hall at the Joyce Center. Hather than taking the entire two­week hiatus, Notre Dame is working on scheduling a few matches. 
For now, the Irish won't dwell on their successes. 
"We're ready to keep working harder," Brewster said. "We have some other great teams 
Victory 
continued from page 36 
the most dedicated people I've ever met," she said. "She's des­tined for greatness because she works hard at it." 
Indiana's Shannon Johnson also shot a 223 to tie Nakazaki for the title. The Hoosiers fin­ished tied for tenth. 
Nakasaki, who became the first Irish player since Rebecca Hogers in 2000 to finish first in the NO Invitational, shot a 72 and a 73 in the first two rounds of competition, followed by a 78 on Sunday. 
"The first 36 holes I was eon­sistent, and the last round I only had one bad hole," Nakasaki said. 
The junior was not fazed by her success, however. She noted at least one area of her game that needed improve­ment. 
"I really have to work on my sand shot," she said. "I was blading it a little bit." 
Other scoring players for the Irish included senior Katie Brophy with a 236, junior Stacy Brown with a 237, senior Suzie Hayes with a 238 and sopho­more Jane Lee with a 239. 
Five other Irish players ­Lisa Maunu, Sarah Bassett, Alejandra Diaz-Calderon, Lauren Gebauer and Courtney Sullivan -competed in the tournament as individuals. Maunu and Gebauer, who shot a 234 and a 237, respectivoly, were in the top-five scores for coming up." 
Despite the 3-1 victory against the Trojan!;' -a team that has won two or the past three national championships and lost and in last year's title match -the Irish weren't completely pleased, Brewster said 
"Against USC, we didn't play as well as we would've liked," she said. 
It's not cockiness that makes Brewster and her teammates think such things. It's their desire to win, their awareness of th.eir limitless potential. Even after defeating tho intimi­dating Trojans, the pesky Sooners and the Gators -who had not been swept in more than two years -tho Irish aren't satisfied. 
The bar is that high. And they like it. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 
the Irish. 
King said good rounds by non-scoring players are indica­tive of a deep roster. 
"That happens to us a lot beeause we're a very deep team," she said. "It's very hard to choose five because we're such a deep team." 
King said she hopes the victo­ry will spur the Irish to a suc­cessful season in 2005-06. 
"This is what we hoped for," she said. "We wanted to start out our season with a win." 
The tournament marked the last Notre Dame Invitational for Illinois coach Paula Smith. The Hall of Farner, who has coached the lllini for 28 years, will retire after the season. She was hon­ored by King at the tournament awards ceremony. 
"Paula's one of the most kind­hearted people I've over met, and she will be greatly missed in thn coaching field," King said of her longtime rival. 
Toledo finished second in the tournament, followed by Big East member Georgetown. Bradley placed fourth, with Eastern Michigan only one stroke behind. Western Michigan and Xavier tied for sixth with team scorns of 950 with Illinois just one stroke behind thorn. Yale, the only Ivy League school in the field, lin­islwd eighth, followed immedi­ately by Winthrop. 
Indiana and Butler tiod for tenth. Boston Collego, Bucknell, Western Illinois, IUPUI and St. Mary's rounded out the lield. 
Contact Chris Khorey at 
ckhorey@nd.edu 

page 34 The Observer .• SPORTS Monday, Sep~JVare, 2005 
FA:LL CAREER EXPO 
Sept. 14th 4:00p.m. -8:00p.m. Joyce Center 
For a list of participating companies, application deadlines, tips on preparing, and more: http://careercenter.nd.edu, "Undergraduate" 
Presented by 
11~e Career Center 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

Split 
continued from page 36 
junior defender Kim Lorenzen, who was out with an injurx 
Despite this, Dew did not think her absence was the rea­son for the loss. 
"It didn't really hurt us not having her in there," Dew said. "We still have a lot of depth." 
Sunday afternoon was a dif­ferent story, however. 
Notre Dame returned to its winning ways, defeating Gonzaga 4-1 in the second game of the Santa Clara Adidas Classic. the ball in the back of the net. 
Leading the Irish were famil­At 32:14, Hanks scored her iar faces Thorlakson, Hanks second goal of the game, and and Amanda Cinalli, who all No. 11 of the season, when she 
scored goals in the win. 

All four goals were .. · , scored in the first ItJUSt wasn t half, as Notre Dame going our way. did everything in its power to e1·ase the 
Carrie Dew 
memories of' the loss 

Irish defender
two nights before. Thorlakson got the Irish started on the right foot DePaul 
when she sc:ored on a penalty Sunday against Michigan at 1 kick at 12:14, and then assisted p.m. on a goal at 16:19 when Annie Schefter headed her corner Contact Bobby Griffin at kick to Jen Buczkowski who put rgriffi3@nd.edu 
beat Ryder with a shot in the left side · of the net. 
Cin alli scored the final goal at 34:56, capping off a four­goal first half. 
Notre Dame will play next Friday at home against 
at 7:30 p.m. and 

BETH WERNET(fhe Observer Senior forward Katie Thorlakson keeps thEi ball away from a Terrapin defender on Sept. 4. Thorlakson had a goal and an assist in the lrii;h's 4-1 win over Gonzaga Sunday. 
NASCAR 

Gordon 111isses chase for 2005 N ex tel title 
Four-time series champion fails to qualify for playoff 
Associated Press 

The sound of defeat echoed from Jeff Gordon's voice as he saw his chance at making the "Chase for the Nextel Cup" come to a screeching halt. 
"We're done now," Gordon said over the radio after scrap­ing the wall on lap 211 of Saturday night's NASCAR Chevy Hock & Roll 400 at Hichmond International Haceway. 
Gordon, who entered the decisive race 30 points out of lOth place, was forced to pit multiple times under caution to repair the damage to the right side of his No. 24 Chevrolet Monte Carlo. He returned to the track one lap down in 36th. 
Earlinr, after making a rou­tine stop for adjustments to his ill-handling car, Gordon had to pit a second time because of a loose lug nut on the left-rear tire. He returned from that mishap in 29th. 
"I knew we were in trouble," Gordon said. "I wasn't feeling too good about things when we started going backwards." 
He l'inished 30th to remain 12th in the standings, 83 points out of the 10th and final spot for the "Chase." The last time the four-time series champion finished· outside the top 10 in points was his rookie season of 1993. 
Gordon, who won three of the season's first nine events, has recorded as many top-1 0 finishes (9) as results of 30th or worse this year. He joins Dale Earnhardt Jr. as NASCAH's biggest names out of the cham­pionship hunt. 
"It's disappointing, but·it's been a disappointing year," Gordon said. "There are so many moments throughout the year where you can look back and say, 'Boy, if this could of happened, we could have been in the Chase.' But lately, things have not gone our way, and we haven't performed." 
Though angry and frustrat­ed, Gordon put missing a shot at his fifth series championship into perspective. 
''I've had some far more dis­appointing seasons than this one," Gordon said. "Life is still pretty darn good for Jlle right now. Hacing is not everything. I've put my heart and soul into it like this team does, and we want to win. But we also know at the end of the day, that it's not the number one thing in our lives." 
Monday, September 1.2, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 35 
JOCKULAR 
ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 

CROISSANTWORLD 
ALI<..Il:lf-\l' MEI'l, WE'\IE uo'f A PRot3LFM. PEoplf'_ ARE-NOT ~!;.'i:> POND 1..-L. 'I'IE'LI. 1(;) OUfi::_ 
l_OMMER.l_IAL. AN't I P€:1\'.)? 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
0\::.A'f, rr S,._'\S \N~ I'IEE.b ~­OTI-\~ COMMERCIAL. \\-\IS ·nME:, :n:oS.uS IS A S\U.I>B--11: 
ANt> M\;:'S. AT A fOD\BP.~ 6At<IE .. · 
JUMBLE 

JJ~illf1JR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SUMEO 
I I I 
C2005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. Ali Rights Reserved. 
PINYP 

± 

J I I t J 
www.jumble.com 
I FORTYS ±

I I r J I 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
Look how quickly he's grow1ng 

t:=XPt:=Rit:=NC.EO BY 
THE: PARt:=NT5 OF A 
FAST Dt:=Vt:=LOP­
ING INFANT. 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above car­

lmswer here: rI I I )BY rI I I ) 
(Ans..yers tomorrow)  
Saturday' s  I Jumbles: Answer:  IGLOO LOUSY PASTRY HAPPEN When they looked at the dishes through the  
store window, they saw-"PLATE" GLASS  

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Euripides drama 
1 Dennis the 35 "_a gun!" Menace-type 
36 Late, as akids 

payment 6 Luxuriates 
39 Incited 

11 "Just 43 Street-smartthought!" 
45 Spine-tingling14 Love to pieces 

15 Maine college 46 Agree 
town 51 SSE's opposite 
16 Stanley Cup org. 
52 ''This won't hurt 17 Start a negotiation 
53 Seen once in a 19 Dover's state: blue moon Abbr. 
54 Korean soldiers 20 Minor setback 
55 To the point21 Raises canines? 

58 Nick and Nora's 

23 Body parts with dog of story and claws 
film 26 Pizzas 
60 -tac-toe 28 Mrs. Chaplin 
61 Shake on it 29 Miner's 
66 Put into service 

discovery 67 Jazz great Shaw 
30 Give a little, take a little 68 cum laude 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

69 Basic version: Abbr. 
70 Atwitter, with uup" 
71 Fork feature 
DOWN 1 "Kapow!" 2 Nutritional inits. 3 "All systems go" 4 Lock of hair 5 Actor Connery 6 Dance 
energetically 7 Terrier's sound a Tap dancing 
without taps 

9 Patella's place 10 Achy 11 "You said a 
mouthful!" 12 Singer Easton 13 "Amen!" 18 Back of the 
neck 22 Chewy candy 23 Ceremonial 
splendor 24 Square footage 25 Ties the knot 27 UFO occupants 30 Angry with 31 "The Ice Storm" 
director Lee 32 Theater seats 34 " ... yadda, 
yadda, yadda" 37 One, in Madrid 38 Petition 40 First 007 film 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

41 Pigpen cry  48 Chopped into  57 Parched  
42 Front page fill 44 Nay's opposite  small pieces, as food 49 Not suitable for kids, as a movie  59 Office worker just for the day  
46 It has points in  50 Go well  62 Commit perjury  
Arizona  together  63 Sense of self  
47 Double-reed woodwind  54 Speeder spotter 56 "Out of Africa"  64 Raggedy doll  
player  author Dinesen  65 Fall behind  

For answers, call 1·900·285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
EUGENIA LAST HOROSCOPE CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Ariana Richards, 26; Brad Fischetti, 30; Harry Connick Jr., 38; Earl Holliman, 77 Happy Birthday: Stop talking about what you want to do this year and start actually following through with your plans. Personal and professional change is needed in your life. Things have become stale, so spice them up. Someone will help you if you share your dreams. Your numbers are 7, 13, 19, 29, 33, 38 ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): You have the discipline and the drive to take a creative idea and tum it into something great. The person you love will encoumgc you and contribute to your plans for the future. ***** TAURUS (April20-May 20): You may wish to make some changes to your residence, but now is not the time. Set aside some time to create a plan and set a budget. You'll come up with a solution that is within your means. *** GEMINI (May 21-.June 20): You will feel torn between two choices. Don't make a decision based on what other people want. You have to decide for yourself.** CANCER (.June 21-.luly 22): Consider what you can do to change your routine. Decide what is healthy and what isn't. Now is the time to make a to-do list and stick to it. You will gain respect. *** LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): You have an attitude that everyone wants to mimic and an approach to life that is riveting. Practice what you preach and your life will be as wonderful as you portray. ***** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): If you want to avoid opposition today, forget about discussing your plans. Someone you least expect will do something totally out of character. Decide whether or not this person is good for you. ** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Someone may try to take advantage of you financially. Don't lend, borrow or get involved in joint financial deals. Love and romance are in the picture. so plan an exciting evening for two. **** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Get involved in an activity that will bring you closer to your dream of the past. If you do something connected with an industry you long to be in, it could lead to something great. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will be hard to pin down and even more difficult to keep up with. You will excite those who meet you and exhaust those you have known for some time. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): The quieter you are about your plans, the less opposition you will have to contend with. Watch what everyone else is doing and you will know who is capable of getting involved in your plans. *** AQUARIUS (.Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can come up with a great idea that can turn into a prosperous future if you stick to it and turn this rather unorthodox project into something tangible. Your trendy style and unique way of doing things will entice potential business partners today. **** PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Let the dust settle before you decide to deal with emotional issues. Take a closer look at your financial position and make adjustments. Making changes to your living arrangements will do you some good. ** Birthday Baby: You are practical, clever, unique, adaptable and open-minded. You are courageous and have the stamina to finish what you start. Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comforfun, eugenia/ast.comfor confidemial consulllltions  _..  
The Observer P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN  46556  

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ____~------------------------------------­
Address ______________________________________ City _______________ State ____ Zip_______ 

t 
! 
! 
THE OBSERVER 
PORTS
Monday, September 12, 2005 
page 36 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish beat
Santa Clara shocker 
Gators for 
Notre Dame falls to No. 5 Broncos in an 

Rally title 
earlv-senson thriller Team takes out two

By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associarc Spons Ediror 

top-1 0 teams in big 
Something very strange hap­
weekend tournament 
pnnml to tlw Irish Friday night -sonwthing most of them are eompletely unaccustomed to 
By TOM DORWART as Notre Damn players. 
Sports Wrircr For the second time in their last 49 games, dating back to 
Thoy did tho unthinkable. latn 2002, tho Irish lost a soc­
They defied the inevitablo. And CM game. 
now they're bolievable. Traveling to Santa Clara, 
Over the weekend, the No. 19 Calif. for the Santa Clara 
Irish (6-0) swept through tho Adidas Classic, the No. 1 Irish 
University of Texas San fell 2-1 to the No. 5 Broneos 
Antonio Dome Hally -a tour­after failing to eapitalize on 
nament stackod with imposing nunwrous scoring chances. 
competition at tho Notre Dame outshot Santa 
Alamodome. Notre Dame ral­Clara 14-5, and missed a criti­
lied to boat No. S Southern. Cal cal penalty kiek in the 39th 
23-30, 32-30, 30-2(i, 30-27 minute in the loss. 
Friday, breezed past Oklahoma "It just wasn't going our 
30-28, 30-27, 30-17 Saturday way," Irish defender Carrie 
and fought by No. 6 Florida 30­Dew said. "Wn had a lot of 
28, 31-29, 30-28 Sunday. rnally good chances. It was 
Notre Dame's unollieial team one of those days." In the 32nd minute, Kerri found Hanks from the left cor­Despite the loss Friday, 
motto is "raising tho bar." And Notre Dame fell behind 1-0 Hanks was moving towards ner near the net. The ball coach Handy Waldrum was not 
this weekend, the Irish met at 20:03 when Megan Snell the right box when Broncos' found its way to the back of terribly upset when viewing 
their bar. pass11d the ball behind her to defender Michaela Esquivel goal, and a score that was the loss in the eontext of the 
"We're really proud of our­.Jordan Angeli, who ripped a tackled her from behind. originally credited to Hanks season as a whole. 
selves," said senior co-captain shot into the right side of the Senior Annie Schefter took was afterwards ruled an own­"!Waldrum! said that it's a 
and middle bloeker Lauren net. the penalty kick, but it was goal. long season, and we'll be 
Brewst1~r. who postnd a total of Angeli's goal was the sixth stopped by Santa Clara goal­Santa Clara's go-ahead goal fine," Dew said. 
52 kills in the throe matches. time that the Irish have given tender .Julie Ryder. came at 83:05 when Angeli's Notre Dame was without 
So far this season, Notre up a goal in the first half in the At 37:50, Notre Dame finally shot ricocheted off the left post prnvious 32 games. scored when Katie Thorlakson into the goal. see SPLIT/page 34 
see SWEEP/page 33 

ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Nakazaki leads Irish to big vvin 

KELLY HIGGINS/The Observer 

Irish junior Norlko Nakazaki tees off Saturday during the Notre Dame Invitational. Nagazaki shot a 223 as the Irish placed first. 
Junior golfer earns first place at home Warren Golf Course 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sporrs Writer 
The hard work paid off for Noriko Nakazaki. 
The Irish junior, who prac­ticed all summer in lieu of a paying job, shot a 223 over three rounds Saturday and Sunday to share the tourna­ment championship and lead her team to a nine-strokfl victo­ry over a 17-tnam field at the Notre Dame Invitational. 
Irish coach Debby King was not surprised by Nakazaki's success. 
"Noriko is probably one of the 
see VICTORY/page 33 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Cahill's shutouts 
•

gtve team crown 
Goalie delivers 197 scoreless minutes in annual tournament 
By KEVIN BRENNAN Sports Writer 

The frustration built up inside .Joe Lapira all game. 
The sophomore forward had failed to capitalize on numer­ous scoring opportunities Sunday, but finally carne through in the eighth minute of the second overtime period. Lapira headed in a pass from junior midlielder Nate Norman to give the Irish a 1-0 victory over St. Louis and ensure a lirst-plaee linish for the team at the Mike Bnrtieelli Memorial Tournament. 
"It was frustrating," Lapint said. "I probably had about seven or eight balls that I should have finished oasily. It just f'inally foil in tho second overtime." 
Notre Damn kicked oiT tho wenkend with a 1-0 defeat of Boston Univnrsity Friday night at Alumni Field. Early in the second half, Bright Dike found a strnaking Norman, who split two dnfnnders and liwd a shot past tho goalie from tho top of the box. 
The goal would be thn only scoring the Irish would nond. as 
sec TITLE/page 33 
.. 

SMC VOLLEYBALL SMC SOCCER 
SPORT IRISH INSIDER Brewers 4, Notre Dame 17, 
WCROSS COUNTRYM CROSS COUNTRY 

Astros 2 Michigan 10
The Belles captured St. Mary's dropped a
Notre Dame's youngFreshman Chris 

fifth place this weekend tough road game to Dame to a win in team ran well, finishing 
Rodriguez led Notre 
Rick Helling beats A strong defensive Valparaiso. 
in the Wooster conference foe Hope.
in third at the 

Roy Oswalt in batte of performance propelled NL Central teams the Irish to a victory in Invitational.
Valparaiso Invitational. 
..
.·.t..:· 
the Big House. 

page 23 see insert
page 31 page 30
page 31 page 31 






