
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
ND student robbed at gunpoint 
By I-lEATHER VAN 
HOEGARDEN 
N~ws Writ~r 
A Notre Dame student was roblwd at gunpoint Thursday night outside the Eek Visitors' Cnnter on (:ampus, Notre Dame Security/l'olke assistant dirnelor Chuck llurloy said. 
Tlw student. who was walking ea"il from his dormitory on cam­pus. saw a man silting alone on a bench on thn north side of the 1\ck Cnntnr about <J p.m., llurley said. The man showed a gun and told the student to give him his wallet. 
"The student gave him his wal­let, and the guy told him to walk away," Hurley said. 'The student turned and looked over hi<> shoul­der and the guy ran southbound on Notre Dame Avenue." 
The student, a senior at the University, wa<> unharmed. 
Hurley said the student went into the Hammes Bookstore, whieh wa<; in the process of clos­ing up for the night. lie called NDSP about three minutes after the incident, which occurred while several games of the Bookstore Basketball Tour­nament were being played at the nearby Bookstore courts. 
The suspect, described as a black male in his late 20s to early 30s, was estimated to be six feet tall and weigh 180 pounds. He was wearing an unzipped black leather jacket with a gray T-shirt and a red baseball hat, Hurley said. 
After the student contacted NDSP, oiTicers attempted to find the suspect. 
"We checked the area down by Notre Dame Avenue and alerted South Bend Police," llurley said. "Nobody matched the description in that area." 
Hurley said there wa<> no one in the area when the incident occurred and that the student was unsure if he could identify the suspect ifhe wa<> a<>kcd to. 
NDSP has assigned a detective to the ca<.;e, and he will meet with the student to develop a compos­ite sketch of the suspect, Hurley 
see ROBBERY/page 6 


NDSP protects Dotne frotn curious clitnbers 
Officers fear students will scale scaffolding 
By AMANDA MICHAELS News Writ<·r 
In tlw latnst installment of drama surrounding tlw mgilding of the ColdPn Dome, tho Notre I>an11• Sncurity/Policn initiatml an all-night guard at thn building's base during tlw last wnPk in a movn oflkials said was a rnsponsn to n~porL"i of stmiPnt"i aUnmpling to ('limb thn srallillding stnwturn. 
"W('rP mncPrllNI that. with thn warm<'r wnatlwr, pPopln will h1~ intrigund into trying rlimh scaf­folding, which is a dangnrous situ­ation if donP during tlw night, particularly il' thPy had bPPn using alcohol," NDSP assistant dimctor ( :hu('k llurley said. "This is a saf(~­ly issue. WP'rt~ trying t.o he proll!:­tivn, and kPI~P pnopln from gntting hurt." 
Jim Lyphout, Vice Pmsidnnl of Busirwss Opnrations, said that his ollkll -whkh is in charw~ or the rngilding projnrt-had be11n 
see DOME/page 6 

Belles bless new Student Center 
By JEN MALL News Wrirer 
A sense of community was truly the aura on the Saint Mary's campus Thursday as hundreds gathered to dedi­cate the new Student Center and Noble F a m i I y See Also 
Dining II all. "Student Among those a t t c n d i n g Center boasts a 
were stu-dozen new dents, farul­
offices"
ty, staff, sis­ters, a lu m -page 3 nan, donors and the Board of Trustees. 
"The new Student Center is a wonderful addition to the 
see CENTER/page 9 


NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Leaders describe ideal ne-w provost 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistanr News Editor 
The seareh committee for the new provost, headed by Univnrsity President-elect Father John Jenkins, has bmm meeting with various constituencies to find out what qualities they arn looking for in Notrn Damn's rwxt arademir leader. 
"Hathcr than prejudice the issun, we want to find out what others think," philosophy profns­sor and committee member Corrwlius Delaney said. 
Senior faculty members have a great deal to say about their hopes for the new provost ­rngarding both his eharadnr and his vision for the Univnrsity. 
Character 
Whon li:u:ulty mmnb1ws rdloct­ed on the qualities a provost ought to possess, tlwy (:anw up with a variety of rosponsns. 
Keith Bradley, chair of thn das­sies department, pointnd imnwdi­ately to aeadnrnies wlwn lw describod his idPal provost. 
"liP or slw must be an <U:I:orn­plished seholar who can set a standard li>r llw rnst of the fa!'ul­ty, someone with intPIIIlCtual v'ision for the tnaching and rnsnarch ontnrprise that is tho Univnrsity," lkadlny said, adding that tim provost ought to I>P truly "inspirational." 
Others were more concnrrwd with tho provost's public pres­ence. Dnnnis I>oordan, chair of art, art history and dnsign, said hn hop1~s to son a rww acadmnk 
see PROVOST /page 8 


Parking spots may be scarce for game day 
By KATE ANTONACCI Associate News Editor 
Those attending Saturday's Blue-Gold spring football game may face more problems than just nabbing a See Also 
good seat in "Officials the stadium. Finding a ·predict big 
parking spot crowds for may pose a 
scrimmage"
challenge, due to the page4 construction eurrently undnrway on the soccer fields on Edison Hoad previously used for parking on football weekends. 

"It's an arna south of' Edison and it is ownnd by tho University," assistant director of Notrn Damn Soeurity/Policn Philip .Johnson said. 
Aceording to tlw University Arehitoet's ofl'ieo, tho ~~on­struetion on thn fields is part of the eampus roads projnd, wherein Edison Hoad and Houte 2:~ will he widnned. A largo portion of' the existing Edison will be dnrnolislwd and realigned so a l'our-litlll' north-south road can bn en~­ated wlwro Edison moots Ivy Hoad. 
The fields will be rnloeatNI for the fall football snason, 
see PARKING/page 9 

~~---~~--~-~--------~--~ ~~--~---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------------------------------­
Friday, April 22, 2005 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 

I climbed the Dome 
I believe I am the only under­graduate to climb the scaffolding on the Dome to the top this year. That is. the only student with per­mission. 
First I had to sign my life away. I especially liked the part that said, "I hereby release, acquit and forever discharge the University... for any and all dam­ages, losses or 

injuries (INCLUD-Claire Kelley lNG DEATH)." Our guide was 
Tony Polotto, sen-Photo Editor ior project manag­er for the University Architects. Ed Cohen and Matt Cashore from The Notre Dame Magazine had requested this 
ascent to the top and I was lucky enough to come along with them. 
I consider myself mildly acropho­bic (afraid of heights) but the scaf­folding was very stable. With every few steps up the scaffolding stairs, the people on the ground became smaller and smaller until finally they looked like moving specks. I clung onto the railing with one hand and clutched my camera with the other. 
At rooftop level we began to see the damage on the Main Building. Paint on the outside was flaking away. As I cautiously followed the others along the scaffolding walk­way I saw a gold gleam in front of me and picked it up. It was a flake of gold leaf. 
I suddenly felt like I understood the fervent obsession with gold that the forty-niners had. As we got closer to the top I began to pick up as much as I could and put it in my pocket. Polotto told us that only one bar of gold is used for all of the gilding on the dome and this amount of gold is valued at $109,000. 
Once we reached Mary's base (she is 18 feet high) we had to start climbing little ladders and then awkwardly clamber over the railing to get to the top. The size of Mary's head is surprisingly huge and she has a lightingrod coming right out from the top of her head. 
On that day Mary was being stripped of her shimmering top layer because putting more gold on top would not fix the cracks and damage to the statue. Workers were coating the gold surface with paint stripper and then scraping it off. Clumps of gold were falling on the snake, openmouthed in agony under Mary's foot. 
It is an utterly breathtaking view from the top scaffolding level. The perfectly symmetrical crisscrosses of the quad give way to the straight line of Notre Dame Avenue and the flat Indiana landscape beyond. 
I think my favorite moment was looking over Mary's shoulder to see the campus from her point of view. Waching over us and protecting us, she is our mother, Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Contact Claire Kelley at ckelley2@nd. edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itselfas a professional publication and strives for the highest standards ofjournalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WOULD YOU EVER WANT TO CLIMB THE DOME? 

Lindsay Till  Jenn Heller  Nathan Lohmeyer  Annellse Succata  Tom Raaf  
senior  sophomore  senior  senior  senior  
offcampus  Lewis  off campus  off campus  off campus  
"Yes! With or  "Yes, I'd hate  "Yes, so I could  "Yes -I heard  "Of course,  
without the  for the security  stand next to  Mary is huge."  because I heard  






Mary is made of sweet, sweet chocolate. " 
IN BRIEF 
Studnnt Union Board. Saint Mary's Board of GovernancP. and thr class of 2007 will host a six­hour "Baltic of the Bands" at Legends tonight. Tlw rvent. part o!' tlw AnTostal !'rstivities. will begin at 6 p.m. 
The Bookstore Basketball 
Tournament will continue tonight ·with the Elite Eight teams bat­tling for 11rst place. The event will take place tonight from 6 
p.m. to 9 on the basketball courts outside the Hammes Bookstore. 
The Film, Television and Theater department will sponsor the play "Arcadia" tonight and Saturday night at 7:30 p.m. in the Decio Theater. Tickets can be purchased from the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 

The movie "Finding Neverland," starring Johnny Depp and Kate Winslet, will b<~ shown in DeBartolo 101 tonight and Saturday at 8 p.m. and 
10:30. Tickets are $3. 

The Saint Mary's Music Department will host a junior recital by vocalist Charlotte Orzel and flutist Courtney Leigh Harmon Sunday from 2:30 p.m. to 4:30 in the Little Theater in Moreau Hall. The two will per­form several solo and combined works. 
The film "Downwind: Depleted Uranium Weapons in the Age of Virtual War" will be shown in Vander Vennet Theatre in the Saint Mary's Student Center at 7 p.m. Sunday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 

MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 

scaffolding. " guards to sit Mary and be 
there all night closer to 
for nothing. " Heaven." 

Saint Mary's students enjoy a picnic dinner on the Alumnae Green Thursday evening as part of the Student Center dedication festivities. Other SMC Tostal events Included inflatable games, air brush tattoos and a mechanical bull. 
OFFBEAT 
NHL player opens own 'Daddy Day Care' 
HARRISBURG, N.C. ­Carolina Panther Mike Rucker is used to raising a ruckus with the opposing team's offense. 
Now, the defensive end is showing a softer, gentler side. Rucker is opening a day-care center in the Charlotte, N.C., area. 
Rucker and his wife were looking for day care for their young daughter. They could­n't find one they liked, so Rucker decided to open one of his own. He and some teammates have invested in the Ruckus House. 
This Saturday, while the NFL draft is conducted, the Ruckus House will have a draft of its own. The center's · newly hired teachers will be introduced one by one, to an audience of prospective fam­ilies. 

'Webster' star causes speeding ticket ruckus 
WARWICK, Ga. -A police officer will be reprimanded for not giving a speeding ticket to former child star Emmanuel Lewis after he was clocked driving 25 mph over the posted speed limit. 
Lewis, who starred in the '80s TV series "Webster," was clocked driving through town at 70 mph in a 45 mph zone last week. He was tow­ing a trailer loaded with a sport utility vehicle. 
He got off with a verbal warning. Lewis, 34, gave his autograph and posed for a photo with police Officer Ron Kirk and the police chief in this southwest Georgia town. 
Although police officers can use discretion in issuing tickets, the Warwick City Council ordered that Kirk receive a written reprimand and that the police chief review his department's policies on giving verbal warnings. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
a:: 
LLI 
:::1: 
~ 
LLI 

3: 
.... 
c:s: 
CJ 



55 33 

57 
40 
0 

HIGH 55 HIGH 36
...I 
LOW 50 LOW 24 
~ ~----­

Friday, April 22, 2005 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Student Center boasts a dozen new offices, high-tech theater 
By MEGHAN DALEY New• Writer  Activities. the Blue Mantle, The Observer and the Women's Hesource Center.  Hosenbush said "will be used differently than Haggar Parlor," the original student  In addition to a larger book­store, Saint Mary's students hav.e also been enjoying hav­ a popular location for movie showings and guest lectures. Fully accessible to the hand­ 
Shannon  McManus,  the  lounge. Haggar Parlor  was  ing a  convenience store  on  icapped. the Student Center  
Costing  an  estimated $17  Board of Governance's Tri­ used nearly daily for various  campus.  has  a  tunnel connecting it  
million. the  new  Saint Mary's  Campus Commissioner, said  College functions. Hosenbush  "For students who do  not  with LeMans Hall, the only  
Student Cnntcr boasts  a  lot  she and other student govern­ said  the  new  lounge will be  have cars on campus, the con­ form  of underground  trans­ 
morP space for studnnts, clubs  ment members  are  enjoying  "more available to students."  venience store is great for  portation still open to  pedes­ 
and offices  as  well  as  some  the new facilities.  The  new  hi- purchasing anything  from  trian traffic at Saint Mary's.  
nnw  additions  to  campus,  "It is a real lux­ level  Shaheen  Twinkies to  Ia und ry deter­ The landscaping outside of  
including a Cyb1~r Cal'!;, a con­vnninnn~ store and a new the­ater. Tlw plans for the new cen­tPr. drawn up by the  ury to have the new meeting rooms -we no longer have to coordinate meet­ "It is a real luxury to have the new meeting rooms."  bookstore, which moved to the new Student Center shortly after Easter, is  gent," senior Kamille Peter said. The new cyber cafe, replete with several desktop comput­ers, is located next to the  the Student Center has received some finishing touch­es in the last several days and the cement patios should be furnished sometime in the  
i\.rchitecturc Design Group of South Bend, began in 1998 and thn structure was com­ ing times around other campus groups' sched­ Shannon McManus trl-campus  estimated by manager Michael Hicks to have  bookstore and offers typical coffee shop fare. Students have unlimited use of the  near future. According to Hosenbush. the new student center was  
plt~Wd  in  two phases, starting  ules," McManus  commissioner  twice the size of  Cyber Cafe's computers. The  financed  mostly by contribu­ 
with  the  new  Noble  Family  said.  the  original  entire  building sports  the  tions from the Saint Mary's  
Dining llall and wrapping up  In the basement  setup.  It  was  "BelleAire" wireless network,  Board of Trustees, parents of  
this spring with tlw comple­ of the center arc several large  previously located in the  now  which is available to all stu­ students  and  the  Student  
tion of the Studnnt Ct>ntcr.  meeting rooms  which  can  be  vacant Haggar College Center.  dents, faculty. and staff with a  Government Association. i\  
OITicns in the cPnt!~r  include  partitioned  into  smaller  Thanks  to  the additional  wireless enabled notebook  complete list of donors can be  
Multicultural  i\.ffairs,  the  spaces for groups of varying  space, the Campus iStore, the  computer.  found  on  a  plaque inside the  
Office  of Civic  and  Social  sizn.  official computer and cellular  Another  new feature of the  student center on  the first  
F n gag n nw n t ,  t h n  St u d e n t  The first floor has  a  spa­ center at Saint Mary's College,  student center is the high tech  floor.  
(; o v P r n 111 tHlt  i\sso e i at ion.  cious, well-furnished student  was  moved out of the LeMans  Vander Vennet Theater which  
Sodnxho Food Serviens. First  loungn, which student activi­ basement and into the  new  seats 100 people and has sur­ Contact Meghan Daley at  
Sourcn  Bank,  Student  ties  director  Georgeanna  bookstore.  round-sound technology.  It is  dale3898@saintmarys.edu  


The $17 million Saint Mary's Student Center, the new home for the Shaheen bookstore, Cyber Cafe and student government offices, opened for use In March and was blessed In a ceremony Thursday. Hundreds, Including students, faculty, donors and trustees, gathered for the event. 


Building wins praise of current students, visiting prospects 
By KELLY MAUS 
News Writer 
Since its opening last month, Saint Mary's students, faculty and staff are finally settling into the new Student Center. 
With the introduction of the rww Cyber Cafe, theater, con­vnninnce store and offices for many ol' the elubs and organi­zations here on campus, the Student Center is becoming the center of student life at the College. 
Sophomore Colleen Brannagan said that what she likes most about the new Student Center is that "it pro­vides students with a quiet place to study outside the library." 
"The new cafe was a con­venient alternative to the din­ing hall and a great place to grab coffee in the mornings 
before heading to class," freshman Mary Frantz said. 
Although many students are pleased with the center as a whole, some students working inside the new facility feel as if they weren't fully prepared for the demands· of their new positions. 
Ali Grimmer, a student employee at the Cyber Cafe, felt that "some of the student workers are being expected to accomplish more than they 
are able to," stemming from the fact that little training was offered to them before the cafe officially opened. 
Despite these concerns, the facility has earned many com­pliments from both students and non-students alike. This past Sunday during the col­lege's annual Spring Day on Campus, prospective students and their families were impressed by the new Student Center. 
Maggie Siefert. a tour guide for Sunday's event, said she felt the building made the College more appealing to prospects. 
"[Visitng students) thought the Student Center was a good asset to have on campus and that the cafe would be a great place to socialize and do homework," Siefert said. 
Contact Kelly Maus at 
kmasuO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Friday, April 22, 2005
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Students unite to end racism 
about others and to self-examineBy KATIE LAIRD their own path and identity. They 
News Writer 

also raise awareness of social justice issues and problems that 
This weekend Notre Dame and may arise in the students' lives. Saint Mary's students will partici-"[Challenge Day] helps equip pate in Challenge Day, a program students with tools to deal with intended to reach out to youth any problem going on at that with experimental workshops time," Gass said. and discussions to help break Michael Anderson, a junior down various diversity barriers from Knott Hall who participated that exist in groups and to dis-in the Challenge Day events last band social stereotypes. spring, said Challenge Day is a 
Challenge Day was started in spark for people to open their California in 1987 to help juvenile minds to self-examination and delinquents and has since won examination of others. various awards for its ground-"Challenge day was a wakeup breaking programs. It has been call," he said. ''That's the whole featured in an Emmy award-win-challenge aspect. It challenges ning documentary and the best-you by confronting you with the selling Chicken Soup for the Soul reality that your life is not in a books. -bubble, free of discrimination. 
From Friday night to Saturday rejection and a general lack of evening, seven Notre Dame and love." 
. three Saint Mary's students will Anderson said Challenge Day travel to Ypsilanti, Mich. to help responds to your own inner con­high school students learn how to flict, not one of outside pressure deal with important issues that -which is what makes the pro­come up in society such as race, gram unique. Gass said most gender, religion or ethnicity. activities and discussions can 
Trevor Gass, a junior English truly change a participant. major, is the program coordina-Gass described several activi­tor for the Challenge ND and ties, including one game he SMC. Gass has been actively called "crossing the line." He said involved with the organization the game was "extremely mov­since high school and believes the ing." results of the program are noth-In it, students have to cross a ing but positive. line when a certain group such 
"Anybody that goes to this pro-as race or religion is named. The gram gets a lot of out of it," Gass game is meant to show how said. "There's a great divide being part of certain groups can between actual experience and make you feel like you are on the just hearing about it." inferior side of the line. 
Throughout the day, students "Crossing the line forces you to partake in a sequence of ice-in a moment examine your life breakers, group discussions and and acknowledge the path both a speak-out session. These events you've left and caused others," help them to open their minds Anderson said. "It manages to force awareness and challenge without being confrontational." 
Gass is planning to bring Challenge Day to the Notre Dame/South Bend community next year. He said he hopes vari­ous campus groups such as drug and alcohol groups, gender rela­tions, women's groups and others that deal with social justice issues will contribute to the program and its funding to make it feasi­ble. 
"That way it will be 'Notre Dame as one' doing this," he said. 
Gass also said he believes get­ting the local area school districts involved will help foster the rela­tionship between Notre Dame and the surrounding community and counteract the "Notre Dame bubble effect" many students often mention. 
Anderson said Challenge Day would be useful for not only the South Berid community but Notre Dame as well. 
"As a school marked again as the least tolerant to alternative lifestyles in the country, many students have no idea what to do about it," he said. "What needs to happen is that problems here on campus need to be expressed in a way that will open the eyes of the student community." 
Challenge Day was started in California in 1987 to help juvenile delinquents and has since won various awards for its ground­breaking programs. It has been featured in an Emmy award-win­ning documentary and the Chicken Soup for the Soul books. 
Contact Katie Laird at klaird@nd.edu 

Officials predict big crow-ds for scrinunage 
By LISA SCHULTZ 
News Writer 
Even though the first home game is five months away, 25,000 fans, alumni and students are expected to watch football Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium, according to director of ticket operations Josh Berlo. 
Kickoff for the 76th annual Blue-Gold Game is 1:35 p.m. local time and is preceded by a free interactive fan fest from 10 a.m. to 
1:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center South parking lot. 
Excitement for the game is evi­dent through high demand of tick­et sales, According to snnior asso­ciate athletic director John Heisler, all special ticket packages were gone within a day. 
One hundred fifty press box seats sold out in an hour Monday morning. By 1 p.m., 1,000 seats for a Saturday morning brunch with members of the team were all sold. Thursday morning, all 1,200 seats in the gold sections were gone. 
Ilowever, general admission tickets arc still on sale. Students just need to bring their ID to Gate E for free entrance. 
"We'd love a great student turnout," Berlo said. "They make the atmosphere." 
"The Blue-Gold game is a vehi­cle for alumni players to connect with the current team," Heisler said. He credited coach Charile Weis for getting Joe Montana, Joe Theisman, Tim Brown and Chris Zordich together to coach the spring game. 
More than 100 other Irish foot­ball alumni are expected to be at the game. About fifty will b1~ par­ticipating in a flag football game in the stadium at 10:30 a.m. 
Onct> the costs are covered, all additional revenue goes toward the St. Joe Valley Alumni Club Scholarship Fund. The scholarship winners for the local alumni chap­ter will be announced at the game. 
Contact Lisa Schultz at lschultz@nd.edu 


'"Area's largest ~l~vuv 
mite~nk~k 
Only one mile from Campus! East Bank Emporium Restaunmt Building 121 S. Niles@. Jefferson,. downtown South Bend (574') 232:8488 +H<mrs: Mon.-Sat. 10-6 



ORLD &NATION 
Friday, April 22, 2005 CoMPILED FROM Trrr ()nsERVER'S wmr: SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
China, Japan to discuss dispute 
JAKAHTA. lndonnsia-China's president 
sidnst1~pped discussion Thursday of his 
country's dnPpnning dispute with Japan. 
which has sugg1~sted a meeting on the side­
lilii'S of tlw Asia-Africa Summit to diffuse 
llw crisis. 
Massivn anti-Japanmw protests in China 
havn Pruptnd in rncnnt weeks over World 
War ll history, natural gas exploration and 
t1~rritorial disputes. Japan has demanded 
an apology for damages to its embassy and 
consulates, but tlw Chinese government 
has blamed Japan for the troubles. 
ThP dispull~ thnHLtnns to overshadow a 
ronfPrPncn of Asian and African leaders, 
which both Chinese !'resident llu Jintao 
and JapaJWSP l'rinw Minister Junichiro 
Koizumi ar<~ attending. 
Canada apologizes for corruption 
TOIWNTO -PrimP Minister Paul Martin 
apologizPd to tlw nation Thursday night for 
a rorruplion scandal that has shaknn his 
l.illPral Party, dlo!iVI'ring a ran~ tl'levisnd 
addn~ss ainwd at n·scuing his minority gov­
l'rllllll'llt. 
Ar.knowlPdging till' allegations or monny 
laund1•ring and kil'kbarks have cn!atnd an 
"unjustil'iabiP nwss." tlw embattled lea{il~r 
pblgPd to call an election within a month 
al'll•r an invPstigation, expected to be com­
pll'll•d by D1~1·. I;,. 
'"l'IJosP who are in power an~ to be held n~sponsibl1~. and that includes me," Martin said or tlw c!Jarw~s. which have disgusted Canadians and prompted the opposition Conservative Party to thrnaton a no-confi­dence vote that could take down the gov­
P J'llrllP II l. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Air tanker crashes during training 
SACHAMENTO. Calif. -An air tanhr d1~sig1wd to drop rntardant during wildlin~s rraslwd on a training flight in a nmwte l'or­I'St, killing all tlm~e pilots on board. federal ol'lirials said. 
Th1• causP was und1~r invl~stigation, said Fl·dPral Aviation Administration spokesman Donn Walker. 
The tanhr was set to bngin lighting fires nnxt month af'ter safdy concerns grounded it and similar planes a year iLgo, federal of'li­cials said. 
Thn plann, a 1'-3 Orion tanker. went down Wnd1wsday nvnning in a rugged area of the l.assnn National Forest, about 120 miles north of Sacramento. 

Police fatally shoot murder suspect 
COLUMBUS, Ohio A 78-year-old stroke victim was shot to death in her hospital bed, appawntly by her husband, who was killed by police at his home later in the day when lw ignon~d warnings to drop his gun, authorities said. 
lngn Brown. who had Alzheimer's disease and was to be placed in a nursing home, was shot twice in the head Tuesday at Mount Carnwl East llospital, Franklin County Coroner Brad Lewis said. Authorities said lwr 7(J-year-old husband. !larry, was bPiiPved to bl~ tho shooter. and tlwy WPre investigating wlwthnr it was a nwrcy killing. 
LOCAL NEWS 

'Star Wars' draws fans to Indiana 
JNDIANAI'OUS-More than ::!0,000 "Star Wars" fans from around the world have ga llwl'l~d lwre for tho largest official "Star Wars" eonvenlion over lwld. 
lnten~st in the four-day "Celebration III" has benn piqued by the May 19 release of "Star Wars: Hpisode III -Hevcnge of the Sith," the final !ilm in George Lucas' prequel trilogy. Media outlets around the world have sent reprnsl~ntatives, and downtown hotels arn booknd solid. 
The star attraction is creator Lucas, who on Saturday will make his first appearance at a fan convention since 1987. 
IRAQ 


'Islafllic Arn1y' shoots down helicopter 
Six American bodyguards die, remaining survivor captured and killed by group 
Associated Press 
BAGIIDAD -lie lived through an insurgent mis­sile attack and helicopter crash that killed 10 others on board, including six American bodyguards for 
U.S. diplomats in Iraq. But the attackers soon found the survivor, sprawled on his back in tall grass near the crash site. Within moments. he too was dead. 
Insurgents had brought down the Hussian-made helicopter carrying the 11 civilians on a commercial !'light from Baghdad to Tikrit, th1• hometown of Saddam Ilussein 100 miles north ol' tho Iraqi capital. Thn chart1~red l'light was bdicvod to be the first civil­ian aircral't shot down in Iraq since the U.S.-led inva­sion two years ago. 
An Internet statement by a group identifying itself as the Islamic Army in Iraq was accompanied by a video that showed the repeated shooting the man after he was forced to stand up and walk. The video showed burning wreckage just before the shooting. 
"One of the crew mem­bers was captured and killed," the statement said. 

On the video, the man spoke English with an accent and was wearing a killed in cold blood in the lcnce, two U.S. Marines and plc of a country who haw blue !'light suit, indicating mosques of tireless Fallujah at least five othel' people, not experienced freedom he was one of the three before the eyes of the world including two foreign civil­and opportunity for many Bulgarian crew members. and on television screens, ians, were killed in attacks years," State Department Two Fijian lwlieopter secu­without anyone condemning Wednesday and Thursday. spokesman Adam 1\rnli rity guards were also on them." It was apparently The six Americans on said. board the llight. referring to the shooting by board the downed lwlicop­1\reli, who spokl' befor1• 
The video also showed an American soldier of a tcr were employed by thn video was postnd, said two charred bodies ncar the wounded Iraqi in a Fallujah Blackwater Security ·hn could not confirm tlw burning wreckage, about 12 mosque on Nov. 13 during a Consulting -a subsidiary cause of the crash. miles north of Baghdad. U.S. offensive in the city. of North Carolina-based However, the Bulgarian 
The authenticity of the The Mi-8 helicopter was security contractor Defense Ministry said the video, posted on a Web shot out of the air as grow­Blackwater USA, which had helicopter was struck by forum often used by mili­ing numbers of contractors, four employees slain and missile lire. tant groups, could not be diplomats and other civilian mutilated by insurgents in The aircraft was owned confirmed. A U.S. Embassy officials arc turning to air­Fallujah a year ago. by I !eli Air of Bulgaria and official in Baghdad said he craft to avoid insurgent The Americans were chartered by Toronto-based had no knowledge that any­attacks on Iraq's roads. assisting the Bureau of SkyLink Aviation Inc. It was one on board survived the The downing is part of a Diplomatic Security in pro­flying to Saddam Hussein's crash and was killed later. surge of attacks that have tecting U.S. diplomats in hometown of Tikrit from 
The Islamic Army state­caused heavy casualties in Iraq. Baghdad's heavily guarded ment said it killed the sur­recent weeks, ending a rel­"They played a critical Green Zone, home to Iraq's vivor "in revenge for the ative calm since January role in our effort to bring a parliament and many diplo­Muslims who have been elections. In the latest vio-bette!' way of life to the peo-mats. 

Prosecutors charge alleged missle smuggler 
Associated Press 
NEWAI{K, N.J. -A British business­man on trial for allegedly trying to smuggle a shoulder-fired missile into the United Statns was "happy as a clam" as he talked to an informant about using the weapons to shoot down civilian aircraft. a prosecutor charged Thursday. 
Assistant U.S. Attorney Brian Ilowe said llemant Lakhani, 69, "was no shrinking violet" in the government sting operation. Hather, he "was aggressive, pushed the deal and took steps to avoid getting caught," Howe said. 
Lakhani is charged with attempting to provide material support to terror­ists, attempting to sell arms without a license, money laundering and import­ing merchandise into the United States by means of false statements. Tlw charges carry a combined sentence of up to 25 years in prison. 

During the sum.mation that lasted about three hours, Howe played a secretly .recorded videotape of Lakhani and the government inform­ant at a hotel the day Lakhani was arrested with a fake shoulder­launched missile in a box in the room. 
Lakhani is seen laughing and joking with the informant about using mis­siles against commercial planes as the two men look out a window overlook­ing the airport. 
"That's a missile that he believes terrorists will usc to shoot innocent civilians out of the sky," Ilowe told the jurr:. "lie's clearly plpased with him­sell. 
In an abbreviated closing argument that will resume Friday in fodnral court, Lakhani's attorney, llen1·y Klingeman, called the government's case one of entrapment. 
"There was no missile plot until the government created it," Klingeman said. "It's a lot like a fireman who lighlc; a fire and then pulls the alarm so he can be the hero." 
Lakhani was arrested in a hotel room ncar Newark Liberty International Airport on Aug. 12, 2003, as he met with a man he knew as "IIaji" but who was actually the informant, Mohammad Habib Hehman, a Pakistani who had also been involved in the drug trade. 
Friday, April 22, 2005

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Do Die 
continued from page I 
alerted to report'i of people gain­ing access to the scaffolding at night. Lyphout said this prompted collaboration with NDSP to ensure "total diligence" concern­ing the site's safety. 
Neither Hurley nor Lyphout was aware of any students being apprehended while ·climbing the structure, and Jeff Shoup, director of the Office of Residence life and Housing, would neither confirm nor deny the existence of any such cases. 
Shoup did, however, say that "climbing the scaffolding would be considered very serious." 
According to on-duty officer George Heeter, the new install­ment consists of two NDSP offi­cers posted in vehicles on either side of the quad-side Main Building steps, with rotating shifts over a period of 10 hours starting when the construction workers leave each night at approximately 8 p.m. Officers began these shifts April14. 
Heeter said he assumed the service would last at least until summer break, but that no sched­ule of dates had been released. Hurley refused to confirm any specific security detail informa­tion, citing official NDSP adminis­trative policy. Lyphout said offi­cials were undecided in regards to the watch's length. 
The University concerns were perhaps well-founded, as tales of daredevils who escaped the eye of NDSP and ResLife to scale the scaffolding without a mark on their bodies -or permanent records -have been circulating around the student body. 
One such student, who spoke to The Observer only on the condi­tion of anonymity for fear of University repercussions, recount­ed his story. 
"There was a small group of us, and we climbed the scaffolding at about nine or 10 at night. We climbed all the way to the Dome so that we could touch it," he said. "To me, it seemed like fun and it would be something I could enjoy looking back on after graduation. How many people can say they've touched the ·dome?" The student said he did not feel that what he did was particularly dangerous, but could understand the University's concern. "I never felt myself in any danger, but if a drunk or careless student finds their way up there, it would be a totally differ­ent story," he said. Though he realized in retrospect that the climbers were quite visi­ble and punishment could be severe-and felt "almost certain" he would not attempt the climb again -he said the risk seemed worth it at the time. 
"We could see downtown South Bend from up there and we got to actually touch the Dome," he said. "I got a huge adrenaline rush from sneaking all the way up and all the way down the scaffolding." 
Contact Amanda Michaels at amichael@nd.edu 
Robbery 
continued from page I 
said. 
The student had $25-$30 in his wallet at the time, along with one credit card. Hurley said the card was cancelled right away. 
"!The student] was shook up," he said. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

Clockwise from top left, NDSP guards the dome, Mary is hidden beneath the scaffolding and Mary's view.
•

PHOTOS BY CLAIRE KELLEY 
·-------------------------~--~ 
10°/o Off Coupon 
U-Haul of South Bend 

U-Haul of Elkhart 3410 Western Ave 
29057 US33 W 

South Bend, IN Elkhart, IN 
574..282-2802 574-295-3926 

!\'lake your reservations now for the following: 
• 
Truck & Trailer Rental 

• 
Paddng & Moving Supplies 

• 
Storage Rental 


• 
Hitches & Wiring 


University o(Notre Dame's International Study Programs 

Tl..·IE OBSERVER 




USINESS
Friday, April 22, 2005 
page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

}ones 4, ' 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volume: 2,424 146 • 2,310,138,050 
AMEX 1,449.73 +12.48 NASDAQ I ,962.41 +48.65 NYSf 7,049.18 +llr.5s S&Psro 1,159. 95 +22.45 NIKI<fi(Tokyo) 10,984.39 0.00 FTSf IOO(London) 4,819.60 -2.40 
COMPANY %CHANGE I $GAIN I PRICE 
NA.SC\1\Q IOOTR SER I (QQQQ) +2.64 +0.92 35.62 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) • 3 95 +0.96 25.28 INTEL CP (INTC) +3.09 +0.70 23.36 EBAY INC (EBAY) -0.09 -0.03 3308 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) +2.85 +0.49 17.68 
Treasuries 

30-YEAR BOND + 1.47 +0.67 46.38 I0-YEAR NOTE +2.1 I +0.89 43.00 5-YEARNOTE +2.75 + 1.06 39.60 3-MONTH BILL +0.36 +0. I 0 28.17 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbL) +0.17 54.03 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) -2.30 434.40 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -1.80 77.48 
fxcho Rates 

YEN I 06.8200 EURO 0. 7665 POUND 0.5239 CANADIAN$ 1.2394 
IN BRIEF 
SEC failed to find trading abuses 
WASIIINC;TON -Th!' Securities and Exrhang!' Commission faih~d to uncover trading abusPs throughout tlw mutual fund industry that cost inwstors billions because it had other prior­ities, congn~ssional invnstigators have found. 
Congrnss' C,iovernmnnt Accountability Oflice, in a rPport bdng wleased Friday. said the SEC's inspectors should have detected the market-tim­ing abuses prior to September 2003, after New York Attorney General Eliot Spitzer brought the violations to light and regulators began an industrywide crackdown. 
Tlw chairman and senior Democrat on the I louse Judiciary Committee seized on the GAO report to roundly criticize the SEC. Such con­certed bipartisan attacks on the agency have been rare in rneent years. 
"The SEC was years late in uncovering these nHL<;sive abuses that are nothing short of theft," panel chairman Hep. James Sensenbrenner, R­Wis., said in a statement. "The SEC must take a stronger position on finding, preventing and punishing abuses by insiders. or Congress will bn forend to take another look at how mutual funds an~ exam irwd and n~gulated." 
Tlw ranking Democrat. Hep. John Conyers of Michigan. said the report shows that the SEC "was asleep at tlw switch." 
Market timing of mutual funds. which involves rapid in-and-out trades. is not illegal but is pro­hibited by many funds because it can disadvan­tagl~ ordinary shareholders. In many of the cases brought by Spitzer and the SEC. mutual fund companies allowed favored clients such as hndge funds to engage in market liming. 
Google increases first-quarter profit 
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif'. -Coogle Inc.'s first­quarter prolit increased by nearly six-fold as the online search engine leader's rapid growth con­tinued to soar beyond analysts' bullish expecta­tions. 
The Mountain View-based company said Thursday that it earnnd $369.2 million, or $1.29 per share, for the three months ended in March. That compared with net income of $64 million, or 24 cents per share. at the same time last year. 
Hevenue totaled $1.26 billion, nearly doubling from $651.6 million at the same time last year. After subtracting commissions that Google paid to other Web sites in its advertising network. the company's revenue was $794.5 million. 
Enron fraud trial set to begin next year 
Founder Kenneth Lay faces 98 counts offraud, conspiracy and insider trading 
Associated Press 
IIOUSTON Enron founder Kenneth Lay's trial on charges related to his personal banking will be held next year. a judge decided Thursday. 
Lay. who faces a sepa­rate trial on fraud and con­spiracy charges scheduled to begin in January, is accused of lying to banks about his intention to use their loans to buy Enron stock on margin before th1~ company crashed in Decnmber 2001. Prosecutors had wanted the ban king trial to begin as early as next month. 
"The desire to try this ease fairly outw1~ighs expe­d ilion." U.S. District Judge Sirn Lake said. 
The ease will go to trial within a "couple of hours" of the start of deliberations in the fraud and conspira­cy ease, Lake said. The fraud and conspiracy trial, which includes former· Enron CEO Jeffrey Skilling and former top accountant 1\ichard Causey, is expect­ed to last several months. · 
Lay's late-aftnrnoon hearing capped a busy day in the I louston courthouse involving Enron cases. 

Earlier Thursday, two fornwr MPrrill Lynch & Co. nxeeutives wern sentenced for their roles in a bogus in the trial of Enron's failed charges. l.akl~ questiorwd pursuit of a tl~rm long1~r Enron sale of pownr broadband operation. The I.ay to make sure he than tlw one fornwr l·:nron barges, although the terms government contends understood he was giving finance chief AndrPw fell far short of what the Enron's former broadband up his right to a jury trial. Fastow received. government sought. executives made false "We have con!'idencn in Fastow, who ran bogus 
Daniel Bayly, former claims of advanced net­your honor and think a schemes that rotted Enron. head of investment bank­work capabilities so they bench trial is the most had faced 98 counts ing for Merrill Lynch, got 2 could get rich by selling appropriate way for it to including fraud, conspira­1/2 years in prison. James company stock inflated by be decided," Lay told the cy. insider trading and 
A. Brown, former head of the hype. judge. money laundering. Last the brokerage's asset lease Lay said in court papers "I think it's a very wise year he pleaded guilty to group. was sentenced to last week and repeated in ruling. There obviously has two counts of conspiracy three years, 10 months. court Thursday that he been a lot of gamesman­for hiding Enron debt and Each was ordered to pay wanted Lake to hear and ship by the task force and inflating profits while $840,000 in fines and decide the banking case as by me," said Mike Hamsey. pocketing millions for him­restitution. jurors deliberate the ver­Lay's attorney. lie called self. 
The government had rec­dict of the fraud and con­Lake "the best fact-finder." A decade is the maxi­ommended up to 15 years spiracy case. In the Merrill Lynch case, mum sentence for two con­for Bayly and up to 33 for Prosecutors expressed U.S. District Judge Ewing spiracy counts, though Brown. concern that Lay may Werlein, who sentenced Fastow can shave a year 
Meanwhile, testimony decide later he wants a the Darien, Conn., men, and a half from that with continued for a fourth day jury trial on the bank criticized the government's good time credit. 

Yahoo provides family with Marine's e-mail 
Associated Press 
WIXOM. Mich. -E-mail provider Yahoo has pledged to give the fami­ly of a Marine killed in Iraq full access to their son's e-mail account. ending a legal tangle that began after his parents sought messages he wrote before his death. 
An Oakland County probate judge signed an order Wednesday direct­ing Yahoo Inc. to provide the con­tents of the e-mail account used by Lance Cpl. Justin M. Ellsworth, 20, who was killed Nov. 13 while inspecting a bomb in Anbar province. 
Yahoo, which originally refused the family's request to hand over the account. did not fight the order and gave the family a CD containing more than 10,000 pages of materi­al. 
But John Ellsworth, Justin's father, said he found only e-mails 

his son received and nothing h1• had written, even e-mails the youngnr Ellsworth had sent home. 
"Maybe that's all he had. Maybe that's all he did," John Ellsworth said. "''m not sure what I've got in front of me." 
The family found only their own messages to Justin Ellsworth, as well as spam and a few e-mails from people they had never heard of. 
A spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, Calif.-based Yahoo said the CD should have contained the Marine's outgoing as well as his incoming e­mail messages. 
"We will do whatever it takes to help Mr. Ellsworth access all of the Iiles on th~ disc," Mary Osako said Thursday. She said Yahoo would deliver a paper copy of the contents to the family early next week. 
Brian Dailey, the family's attorney, acknowledged Thursday that Yahoo 
"had a n~sponsibility to Justin to maintain the confidentiality they had promised him." 
"This wasn't a big fat light going on," he said. "They approached us as a partner and worked with us to do the right thing." 
Yahoo's policy states accounts ter­minate at death, but John Ellsworth argued his son would have wanted him to have the account. The Marine told his dad that kind e­mails kept him going. and his family wanted to make a scrapbook out of them. 
"It's a great comfort." Ellsworth told Detroit radio station WJH. 
Justin Ellsworth's job was to locate and destroy hidden bombs. He discovered one while on patrol and noticed the device lacked wires, suggesting it was remote-con­trolled. He warned fellow Marines to clear the area but was caught by the blast. 
page 8 Friday, April 22, 2005 
The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
crossed a threshold, made a real "Some may say Notre Dame toward the future as to the past." someone at the top who looks at commitment to the arts," tends to look too much toward That ability to look in many the whole picture and makes


Provost 
continued from page 1 
speaker who is "articulate." Professor of electrical engineer­ing Ken Sauer agreed. 
"I think it's very important that both our president and our provost be people ... who have a good public presence, who are very well-spoken and who will be able to put the best face of the institution to the rest of the world," Sauer said. 
During the search committee's meeting with the College of Arts and Letters' college council, Doordan said a need was also expressed for someone who was sensitive to the needs of female and minority faculty members. Bradley also cited the importance of the provost's relationship with the faculty, saying it was impor­tant for the provost to gain their trust and confidence. 
Physics professor John LoSecco also highlighted the importance of the provost's ability to form relationships. 
"He/she must work well with the new president," he said. "It's essential that they are on the same page and have the same goals in mind, that there is a uni­fied administration." 
Allocating resources 
Many professors expressed an interest in having more resources allocated toward their areas of interest. LoSecco emphasized the College of Science's interest in keeping the "momentum" going that Jordan Hall has started. Doordan expressed similar senti­ments. 
"From my point of view, with the new [DeBartolo Performing Arts Center]. Notre Dame's Doordan said. "I don't want to see that momentum lost. I want to see the next provost committed to the visual and performing arts." 
Bradley focused on the impor­tance of liberal arts as a whole. 
"One of the important things about Notre Dame is the high value it puts on liberal arts," he said. "I hope the new provost will maintain, at least, if not extend Notre Dame's educational com­mitment to liberal education and especially the humanrties disci­plines." 
Sauer said the College of Engineering simply wants some­one who recognizes the impor­tance of engineering -not just in society, but also in the University itself, because of the college's small size. Chemistry professor Richard Taylor said he would like to see someone with "an appreci­ation for experimental sciences." 
Balancing goals 
Ultimately, though, it is the abil­ity to balance these competing needs that sets a good provost apart. 
Both Lewis and Richard Taylor, a chemistry professor, stressed the need to balance undergradu­ate education with graduate-level research. 
"I think that both things are very important for a strong uni­versity," Lewis said. "But the way that both will really benefit is if there's a meaningful connection between the two." 
Associate Dean of the Mendoza College of Business Bill Nichols expressed a desire for a provost who would keep with Notre Dame's traditional Catholic iden­tity. 
Taylor, though, emphasized the future along with the tradition. 
Attention Students! 
SUMMERWOR 
A.B.H. SELF LOCK STORAGE 
•Gated facilityI individually alarmed/ security cameras 
•5x5 thru lOxlO units available 
•Student specials 
4 mos. For the price of 3 
•Located in Mishawaka 
20-25 mins. from campus 574-255-5625 
tradition and not enough toward directions was also recognized by evolution of the University," he mathematics department chair said. "I want someone who is Bill Dwyer. interested in projecting a strong "It's a matter of judgment." he vision for the future of the said. "It's not obvious where University, who looks equally resources should go. We need judicious decisions and some­times. bold and visionary deci­sions." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at eduffy1@nd.edu 

The Office of Information Technologies is looking for ND students who can provide after-hours computer 
support to students who live in ND Residence Halls. RCAs work between eight and 20 hours per week after 
receiving training from the OIT. 
UNiVERSITY OF 
NOTRE DAME 
OFFICE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES 
lJNIVERSin' Of NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT Of MUSIC PRF.SfNTS 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
CHORALE & CHAMBER ORCHESTRA 
ALEXANDER BLACHLY, DIRECTOR 


PURCELL ~ SCHUBERT ~ WAGNER MENDELSSOHN ~RACHMANINOFF 8:00P.M., FRIDAY, APRIL 29, 2005 
lEfGHTON CONCERT HALL \~!f?<·-,;:: DEBART 0 L 0 
~'"' ,Jt. PERFORMING ARTS CENTfR
DEllARIOLO CENTER fOR lHE I'ERFORMING ARTS ADMISSION $10; FACUlTY/.SIAff $8; SENIORS $6: STUDENTS $3 ~UNIVERSITY Of 
RESERVATIONS .574-631-2800 WNOTREDAME 

hiday, April 22, 200') The Observer + NEWS page<) 





Parking 
continued from page 1 
a<:cording to the University /\rchitnct's ol'licn. 
llownv<~r..Johnson said that tlwn~ will be plenty of parking availablt~ to campus visitors this wnnknnd and in thn fall. 
"(l'arkingl just won't be south of the stadium," Johnson said. "Then~ is also a shuttle that will run from White Finld lot down to tlw library, just like on a typical football Saturday." 
On diiTnntH'l' between the lllue-(;o!d (;anw W<'ekend and lypiral football Saturdays. howi'VI'r, is that tral'fir is usu­ally Olll' way in front ol' thl' .Joyt:l' Centl'r. a rhang<' that will not occur for the Blue­(;old ganu~. 
"We will have additional oiTi­n~rs to facilitate traffic as best we can. but there may be some extra buildup (because 
ELlA'S 
Mcdotcrmnc.nn ( ..ui~·~ 
·-~:..-e.------­
Oi)fn: li1~.'i.-Sa1. JJam-lpm & 4pm-9pm (.\'am. and,\..Jon. c:lo...\·c:d) l>iP~e·ln • Taxe-Out • Cal.:ring 
-------··•·~'lo~ ... ---------------
Wr ofTrr: Shis.h Kebab, Shish Tawouk, V cgctarian and Meat Grape l.eavc Rt.,lls, Falafel, Hoummos.. Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie and many delicious dishes . Our address: J15 Dixie W~· ,Vorth 
(574) 277-7239 .)(mth Hend, IN -16637 'vo/t art locarrd 1n Ro:stJand .uc:a. n('ar Pt'ndlt" Road on J I 
·~'. '.. 

,, :.) 
··~.
I I·, 

of two-way traffic]." Johnson said. · 
Lots still opPn for parking are the Joyce Center lot, B2 Lot and D2 North Lot. as well as space near the Notre Dame Federal Credit Union and Whitn Field North, Brown said. 
/\dditionally, Notre Dame Sports Properties has organ­ized a fan festival from 10 
a.m. to 1:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center parking lot, which is also usually fill<~d with cars for football wnnkends. 
"]The fan f'nstivall is taking up some of the additional parking," .Iohnson said. 
/\ceording to the Sports Properties office, there will be interactive inl'latabln games for kids. a 1>.1 and a pnrform­ancl' by tlw Irish Dance Club. Chirk-fil-1\ will be handing out free samples and Meijer and other sponsors will have booths set up. 
Contact Kate Antonacci at kantonac@nd.edu 


Center 
continued from page 1 
campus, said Sister Louisita Welsh, who attend­ed the ceremony. "It is a central place that will bring everyone together. It is also a place for learning to con­tinue outside the classroom whether it be through lec­tures or just talking with fiends at a meal." 
The nnw Student Center h·as been open to the public for just over a month and has quickly become the cen­ter of campus life. It houses 
a 98-seat tho­atrn. meeting rooms. student loung()s, a Cyber Cafe. the bookstore and 1st Source Bank. Excite­ment has been mounting all week, high­lighted by "themed bar­gain days" offered by the bookstore. 
These included country­western-Monday and rock­Tuesday, where discounts were given to students wearing themed clothing. 1st Source Bank. which is also located in the new stu­dent center, held a raffle in honor of the dedication. 
Thursday's events began with tours and an open house in the new Student Center. Staff nwmbers said 

"St. Mary's really needed a gathering place that was centered around students." 
Mary Lou Eldred former SMC president 
they wnrt~ tllrilled to havP wlwlmPd" at seeing tlw nPw students and guests look studPnt Center !'or tlu~ l'irst 
around the new space. Thn day's festivities continued with a Mass of Thanksgiving held by Father Kenneth Molinaro in the Hegina llall Chapel. 
/\t 5:15 p.m., the front court­yard of the Student Cnnter was packed with communi­
ty members for the ceremo­ny and blessing. Coll<~ge 
new Student Center. 
The event proceeded with prayers led by members of the Saint Mary's community and the physical blessing of the building by Fathnr Joe Carey. Immediately follow­ing the ceremony, Sodexho held a community picnic on the /\lumnae Green. where students and the community continued tlw celebration. 
EldrPd said slw was "ovt'r-
President Carol Mooney directt'd the cPremony, stressing the day of' c<debra­tion for Saint Mary's College. 
Mooney  also  
made it  a  point  
to  thank  Mary  

Lou Eldred, the former Saint Mary's president who was very influential in the building of the 

"/think we exceeded students' expectations to a certain extent ... 'Wow· is pretty much what we heard." 
Linda Tlmm vice president for Student Affairs 
/\ff'airs. has seen the Student center go from tlw very first visions to tlw finislwd prod­uct. ShP said sht' was over· j o y P d t h at t h P S t u d <' n t C<~nter has only bct>n open for a month and is already being utiliwd. 
"Every time I walk by and see students studying, attending lectures or even sleeping in the lounge, I know it is being used exactly as it should be," Timm said. "I think we exceeded stu­dents expectations to a cer­tain extent ... 'Wow' is pret­ty much what we heard." 
Many of the students an~ also thrilled with the open­ing. 
"(The building is] an awn­some addition to the cam­pus," said freshman /\mber Zila. "It is something every­one whether fresh man or senior, living on or oiT cam­pus, can usn." 
Contact )en Mall at jmaliO I @saintmarys.edu 
time yestPrday. 1\ ld n~d said slw worked very hard to stH~ tlw addition of' a student center at..Sai.nt Mary's; 
Sa1nt Marys really needed a gathering place that was cen­
tered around students," Eldred said. 
Linda Timm. vice president for Student 
page 10 

The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, April 22, 2005 

Traffic death rates hit record lo-w 
Still overall number of traffic deaths increased, government says 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -There's mixed evidence on highway fatal­ities for safety experts and auto groups engaged in a long-stand­ing debate over reducing casual­ties on the nation's roadways. 
The highway fatality rate sank to a record low last year, the gov­ernment estimated Thursday. But the overall number of traffic deaths increased slightly, leading the Bush administration to urge a national focus on seat belt use. 
The number of deaths of motorcyclists and drivers and passengers in sport utility vehi­cles and large trucks increased. Alcohol-related fatalities. mean­while, were projected to decline for the second straight year. 
"At best we're treading water and we're not making as much progress as we'd like to make,"said Barbara Harsha, 
executive  director  of  the  
Governors  Highway  Safety  
Association.  

Overall, 42,800 people died on the nation's highways in 2004, up from 42,643 in 2003, accord­ing to projections issued by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. 
Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta said the nation was "in the midst of a national epidemic" and implored motorists to use their seat belts. 
"If this many people were to die from any one disease in a sin­gle year, Americans would demand a vaccine," Mineta said. "The irony is we already have the best vaccine available to reduce the death toll on our high­ways -safety belts." 
Fifty-six percent of those killed weren't wearing seat belts, a rate unchanged from 2003. 
NHTSA Administrator Jeffrey 

Runge said seat belt use is at 80 
percent, an all-time high. But he 
added, "We could save thousands 
more lives each year if everyone 
buckled up." 
The fatality rate dropped even 
as the total number of traffic 
deaths crept up because more 
drivers were on the road. 
The fatality rate slid from 1.48 
deaths per 100 million vehicle 
miles traveled in 2003 to 1.46 
deaths in 2004. It was the lowest 
since records were first kept in 
1966, when the rate was 5.50 
deaths. 
In 2004, the number of vehi­
cles registered grew to 235.4 mil­
lion from 230.8 million in 2003. 
Vehicle miles traveled increased 
slightly, from 2.89 trillion in 2003 . to 2.92 trillion last year. 
Jacqueline Gillan, vice presi­
dent for the watchdog group 
Advocates for Highway and Auto 
Safety, called the results "bad 
news" for the American public. 
"The government wants us to 
believe that even though more 
family members and friends 
were killed in crashes last year 
that things are really getting bet­
ter because we spent more time 
driving," Gillan said. "The cold 
hard reality is that we are stuck 
in neutral." 
The figures were released as 
Congress considers safety pro­
grams in the pending federal 
highway bill. Runge has sought 
incentives for states with seat 
belt laws that let police stop 
motorists for failing to use belts, 
or states that reach 90 percent 
belt use for two years 
For those debating the safety of 
sport utility vehicles, the num­
bers offered varying evidence. 
Deaths of drivers and passen­
gers in sport utility vehicle were 
projected to grow from 4,446 in 
2003 to 4,666 last year, an 
increase of 4.9 percent. Rollover fatalities in these popular vehi­cles increased by 6.9 percent, to 2,821last year. 
SUV rollover injuries dropped 3 percent, from 67,000 in 2003 to 65,000 last year. 
Supporters of the vehicles said there were roughly 10 percent more registered SUVs on the road in 2004 and the fatality rate for the vehicles has declined since the late 1990s. 
"Things are getting better as it relates to SUVs," said Ron DeFore, spokesman for the Sport Utility Vehicle Owners of America. 
The number of deaths dropped 
2.4 percent for people in passen­ger cars and 2 percent for pickup trucks. Among large trucks, the number of people killed grew 3.7 percent. 
Alcohol-related fatalities slid 
2.1 percent last year, to 16,654. Wendy Hamilton, president of Mothers Against Drunk Driving, said the organization was "cau­tiously optimistic" but urged the 
· nation "not to become compla­cent" about impaired driving. Meanwhile, motorcycle fatali­ties rose for the seventh straight year, up 7.3 percent to 3,927. Former NHTSA Admini­stratorJoan Claybrook, who is now president of watchdog group Public Citizen, said the increase in motorcycle deaths was tied to a lack of helmet laws in 30 states. Fatal crashes involving drivers between the ages of 16 to 20 increased slightly, from 7,353 in 2003 to 7,405. 
The data released Thursday are considered projections. NHTSA plans to release final 2004 fatality figures in August. NHTSA collects crash statistics from all 50 states. 




The same lo\.v rate on ne\v or used autC6­Ieaves our competition in the dust. 
•
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be beltar 




Airlines lllust disclose passenger identities 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -The Bush administration is considering requiring foreign airlines to check the names of passengers on all flights over the United States against government watch lists. 
The·proposal would most affect airlines in Mexico and Canada because the majority of the hundreds of 11ights each day come from those countries. 
Currently. foreign airlines planning to land in the United States must submit passenger and crew lists to the govern­ment within 15 minutes of departure. The names are checked against lists of people considered terrorists or who otherwise could present a dan­ger. 
Airlines must do the same for crew members on !1ights over the United States. Now the Transportation Security Administration is considering requiring airlines to check the names of passengers on those flights, agency spokesman Mark Hatfield said Thursday. 
The goal would be to add one more level of protectio·n against hijackings, the tactic used on Sept. 11. 2001. 
Cliff Mackay, president of the Air Transport Association of Canada, said Canadian and 
U.S. officials are discussing the idea. 
One question. Mackay said. would be whether U.S. authori­ties would want passengers checked on east-west flights that might skirt U.S. airspace or only on those flights that significantly go into U.S. terri­tory. 
Also, because Canada is developing its own no-fly list. he wondered whether U.S. air­lines will face the same requirement when flying into Canadian airspace. 
The TSA declined to provide details about the discussions. 

Want to Cheer, Cheer for old Notre Dame? 


This year, do it from the stands. 
Anthony Travel can help you get there! 
Hotel accommodations 
South Bend, Mishawaka and surrounding area 
Game packages including: 
Accommodations -Game tickets -Pep rally and more! 
Air and ground transportation available 

WELCOME ALL JLUE ANU O.OLU FANS! 
~t Sports ~ar it1 South ~et1d 2046 South ~et1d Ave -Across frot\1 Martit1s Plaza 272-1766 
rues: COLL[I}[ NII}HT ~ UJ &-SPECIALS (STAitTJNI} AT $1,00} Wed: Live TKIVIA Night ~ Srit1g your tea~s ~ Prizes Thurs: UJ ~ Pet1t1y Night ~ 1¢ Specials startit1g at 9PM 
MUST '£ 21 ~ N£V££{. ACOV£1'{. WITH ASTUU£NT IU 
Friday April 22, 2005 
The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
U.S. teenagers abusing prescription narcotics 
Associated Press 
NEW YOBK -About one in five t111~nagers have tried pre­scription painkiiiPrs such as Virodin and OxyContin to get high. with the pill-popping nwmbers of "Gerwration Bx" ofwn raiding their parents' mPdieine cabinets. according to a study by the Partnership for a Drug-Free America. 
The 17th annual study on teen drug abuse, released Thursday, found that more ttwns had abused a prescrip­tion painkiller in 2004 than Ecstasy, cocaine, crack or LSD. One in 11 teens had abused over-the-counter products such as cough medi­cine. the.study reported. 
"For the first time, our national study finds that today's teens arc more likely to have abused a prescription painkiller to get high than thoy are to have experiment­ed with a variety of illegal drugs." said Partnership Chairman Hoy Bostock. "In other words, Generation Hx has arrived." 
According to the study, the most popular prescription drug abused by teens was Vicodin, with 18 percent-or about 4.3 million youths ­reporting they had used it to get high. OxyContin and drugs for attention-deficit disorder such as Hitalin/Adderall fol­lowed with one in 10 teens reporting they had tried them. 
Special Hours for Graduation May 15th 4pm-10pm


'Rocco's 
No Reservations Please
Hesla u r~u1l. 

rJ'irst OritJina( Pizza in ~own! 
SiiH'<' !~Jell S 1 , f • 1 • ia Ii1 ir q..;· i11 II a Iia 11 I•: 1111'1 • ( • s Ttll's. · Tl11rr-;..~dlOI'~I -II :001''\1
. 
I:ri . -.'-i a 1 . : .~1:! )()I' '\1 -I : ()() \ !\1 


.1'17 1\orllr St. Lorris Sotrllr Bt•rid, II\ 
.17-'i -lT1-ltl(ii 


Chat-rootn guard faces charges 
Lawsuit claims AOL moderator seduced teenager for two years 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -America Online markets itself as a safe place for children, with par­ent-frinndly features and a roree of employees who moni­tur kids' chat rooms and watch out for adults prowling for youngsters. 
But is AOL doing enough to monitor the monitors? 
That question is central to a lawsuit filed by a California teenager who claims a chat­room monitor tried to seduce her online. 
The employee allegedly used his position to proposi­tion the girl over two years, during which they exchanged graphic images. e-mails and phone calls -exactly the kind of scenario the man was hired to prevent. 
AOL fired the man, Matthew 
D. Wright, and referred the case to the FBI and other law enforcement agencies, none of which pursued criminal charges. Attempts to locate Wright, listed in the lawsuit as a resident of Oklahoma. were unsuccessful. 
Tlw girl's lawsuit. l'iled April 
I. is the !irst such claim made against an employee at AOL or any other major Internet service provider, according to online child safety organiza­tions and law enforcement agencies. It alleges negligence and false advertising and seeks at least $25,000 from Wright, AOL and its parent, 

Time Warner Inc. 
AOL says it closely screens its chat-room monitors and acted quickly in this ease. 
Still, the company is being forced to del'end itself ovf~r a service it pionerrnd in tho micl-1990s and which remains a selling point to keep its mil­lions of subseribei·s from jumping to other Internet service providers. 
"This case isn't so much are they properly monitoring chat rooms for kids; this is more a question of what are they doing to monitor the qualities and qualifications of the peo­ple they're hiring," said Parry Aftab, an Internet lawyer in New Jersey who runs online safety workshops for parents and children 
Claims of online abuse by an employee are rare, said Aftab, who has heard of no more than a dozen against chat­room monitors or moderators. 
Chat-room monitors are cyberspace's lifeguards. They typically watch over the mes­sages that participants post. and warn users when they cross tiHl line with ofl'ensive or otherwisP prohibitPcl remarks. They can dolf•te offending remarks, kick viola­tors out or the chat room. even ban them from return­ing. 
AOL is a rarity -a major service provider that offers its own chat service, as well as one of the few online eompa­
nies that have paid, full-time employees monitoring some chat rooms. The company 
markets  its  KOL,  or  Kids  
Online. chat area as a  sarer  
onlirw experience.  

It was insidl' orw kids-only chat room whern Wright. tlwn 23, first eontaetnd the then­15-year-old girl. who was liv­ing in Kern County, according to the lawsuit. Slw is now 19 and living in Los Angeles. 
They grew close, according to the lawsuit, the girl grad u­ally confiding in him about her parents' divorce and her troubles making friends. She and Wright were preparing to meet on her 17th birthday and have sex, the lawsuit said, when one of the moni­tor's co-workers became sus­picious and blew the whistle. 
AOL spokesman Nicholas Graham said monitors under­go rigorous screening, includ­ing drug testing and back­ground cheeks, and rnceivo specialized training for the area and age group tlwy will be monitoring. 
"That monitoring is itsrlf actively monitored and scruti­nized by intPrnal complianrt• and investigation tParns with close. long-standing working relationships with both law enforcement and children's safety advocacy groups," Graham said. "The bottom line is, AOL's self-policing and self-monitoring efforts worked." 
Are vou asophomore Accounting Maior looking tor great pav and a tremendous business experienceit 
If so, Get aJob at The Observer! The Observer is now accepting applications tor Controller! 
If you're interested or have questions, please contact Claire Heininger at cheining@nd.edu or Michael Flanagan at mflanag 1@nd.edu. 

THE 0HSERVER 







IEWPOINT
page 12 Friday, April 22, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Mike Flanagan 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SroRTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 

SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala 
SAINT MARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil 
PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 

CONTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DesK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.e.du 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoim.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAltiT MARY'S 0ESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of rbe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is ;wailable to all readers. Tne free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Ediror must be signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to Edit(Jr in ChiefChire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

Th.: Ohrervl.'r {USPS ji)'-J 2-400()) h publi~h.:d Monday chrough 1:riday t.'X<:ept Juri11g .:x.un Jnd va..::aciun period~. A ~uNcripriun tO The Obst:rVt.:r is $100 fur one a~;ad'-1nic ycar;$551iJttliJc.>cmel~r. 
Th~ Obl<!'tv~:r i~ puhlilihcd u: POSTMASTER 

U24 Sourh Diniltt~: Hall Send .;.J.dn."li~ Qlrtectioll~ to; 
Notre' D.u1w, IN 46556-077lJ ThcObM.•rvt't 
Periodical past3!\c p~~.iJ d Notre Dame P.O. Hoxnr.; 
and addirional mailinH {lltit:~:~. 024 South Din in~ Hall 

Nutrl" Dame, IN 46556..0779 
The Ob~crvcr if a 111~m~r uf th~· Auociawd f'n·». All rt-prodw.:ciun riglm arc m;crvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

Blue-Gold Game a good start 
Thousands of fans will watch a football game tomorrow in flew to South Bend from New England. Having four of the Notre Dame Stadium. And not one will care which team best players in Irish football history around for the week­wins. end, even if it's only for a ceremonial coaching role, can 
The Blue-Gold Game, kicking off at 1:35 p.m. Saturday, is only help the program. a chance for fans to quench their thirst for Irish football These four men know what it feels like to win at Notre during the off-season. Dame. At least a little of that knowledge­
But this year there's a fresh feel surrounding and more importantly, that attitude-should 
O
Jhe
the annual scrimmage that marks the end of rub off on the current team.
userver
spring practice. Football is the heartbeat of Notre Dame. And 
It's the first look at the Irish under new it's been more than 12 years since the campus coach Charlie Weis, the 1978 Notre Dame blood pumped as it does now. There is a dif­alum expected to lead the football team back ferent feel around campus when the Irish arc to national prominence. Whether he can get the Irish back winning. There is a little more to celebrate at dorm parties in the championship race is yet to be determined. But one and waking up for that 8:30 class doesn't seem so bad. thing is for sure -Weis has energized a campus, a fan base At least for Saturday, the campus heartbeat will be as and a tradition that has been relatively lethargic for the strong as ever. There will be alums -actual and subway past decade. alike-grilling bratwursts in the Joyce Center lots, stu­
Saturday, four Irish legends, Joe Montana, Chris Zorich, dents dusting offtheir Victory March COs and ushers mak­Joe Theismann and Tim Brown, are back as honorary ing sure their yellow jackets still fit. Amongst all this typical coaches for the game. Weis might be considered a play-call­game day commotion, there is an optimism that hasn't been ing genius, but this is the smartest thing he's done since he felt for too long. A belief that Notre Dame is back on top. 

Editorial 
The cosmos in a grain of sand 
It is July of 2004. The day slowly turns to dusk as I sit at the edge of the Ganges River in Rishikesh, India. Rishikesh claims to be the yoga capital of the world. Its famous visitors include four young British men who called John themselves the lnfranca Beatles; they came looking for enlight­Dissident enment. Poetry Determining whether or not they found it would demand a rather thorough analysis of late Beatles; recordings. If I had to ven­ture a guess I would say George came closest, with .Lennon not too far behind. 
I myself came to this sacred river not in search of enlightenment, but simply in hope of observing a ritual. I am one of less than a dozen obvious Westerners searching for a piece of the eternal amid a few hundred Hindus at the edge of a sacred river. 
More precisely, I am waiting for the evening puja ritual to begin. Brahmin priests prepare the grounds for singing, chanting, prayers and the release of lighted offerings into the river. As the large crowd waits for the main ritual to begin a group of about 10 gather around a ~mall candelabra of sorts with a young Brahmin priest. He leads the small circle in chants and, at certain points in the ritual, each devotee drops a small bit on incense onto the burning flames. 
Viewing this all through eyes formed by my Catholic upbringing, I imagine that the rising smoke symbolizes prayers traveling heavenward. Perhaps the sweet smell of incense gives the offering an aroma pleasing to the Lord. 
As I ponder the similarities between Hinduism and the Catholic tradition the cell phone of a man on the far side of the circle begins to ring. I consider how embarrassing this would be for an American churchgoer. Most likely he would rush to stop its ringing, turning red in the process. Perhaps he would walk to the door, answering it as he made his exit, the congregation silently critiquing his rude behavior. 

The Hindu man in the circle of prayer merely answers his phone and begins a conversation in Hindi. He talks for about five minutes. never moving from lhe circle. The ritual continues. He even stays somewhat involved, when able balancing the phone between his shoul­der and head and offering his incense to the flames. Minutes later, his conversa­tion complete, he turns the phone off and more actively engages the ritual before him. As with many things in India, no one else seems concerned with behavior that strikes me as quite amazing. 
I hesitate to draw any conclusive soci­ological insight from a single isolated incident. At the same time, I mention this experience because one might find in it a glimpse of the deeper differences between the understanding of 
religion, ritual and every-
poet Gerard Manley 
day life prevalent in India and Hinduism and that of much of the Western and Christian worlds. Ritual and religion are interspersed with everyday life in India in a way that differs dra­matically from the West. One might contend this was not so clearly the case years ago, where daily mass attendance was more prevalent and more homes had small shrines to the Virgin Mary or some other beloved saint. 
Yet I think there is something more at work in Hindu faith and popular piety. A religion that emphasizes the presence of the Divine around every corner can infuse the world with a sense of the sacred that might appear foreign to our 
. Western perception and its more tran­scendent frame of reference. In this blurring of distinction it should not sur­prise one that the profane and "secu­lar" often find their way into ritual and religion in a way Westerners might deem unacceptable. Cows (themselves sacred) wander into temples, shrines spring up like wildflowers on the side of roads and a man talks on the phone while offering puja. 
At the same time a grasp of the con­stant and surrounding presence of God, as well as the sacredness of creation. are not entirely foreign to Christian tra­dition. Paul preached that God created all people "so that they would search for God and perhaps grope for him~_m~d jrw find him-th'ough indeed he is not far from each one of us. For 'In him we live and move and have our being."' Aquinas used these terms to describe God's presence in creation: "God is in all things; not, indeed, as part of their essence, nor as an accident, but as an agent is present to that upon which it 
works." The Jesuit priest and 
Hopkins celebrated that "The world is charged with the grandeur of 
God." 
Rituals and litur­gies imbue actions with meaning and draw us closer to a deeper reality. Yet every action 
can be performPd in a spirit of medi­tation and our vision 

can be refined to sec the presence of God in the most mundane ele­ments of our world. Actions 
can center us if we follow the advice of the Bhagavad-Gita: "Whatever you do, or eat, or offer, whatever you do, do as an offering." 
This is John Infranca 's last column. He thanks those who have read his pieces over the past two years. He is leaving now. Goodbye. He can be con­tacted at jinfran 1@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
News Sports Nicole Zook Kate Gales 
OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Mary Kate Ann Loughery 
"He more concerned with your
Malone Kyle Cassidy What color should the 2005 "The Shirt" be') 
character than your reputation,

Submit aLetter
Jarrett Lantz Scene 
A. Green 

because your character is what you
Viewpoint Maria Smith !3. Blue 
really are, while your reputation is 
Alyssa Brauweiler Illustrator 
merely what others think you are."
Graphics Graham Ebetsch C. Yellow 
to the Editor at 
Graham Ebetsch 
D. Other 
John Wooden

www.ndsmcobserver.com
*Poll appears courtesy of ndsrncobserver.com and is based on 1.017 responses, 


former UCLA basketball coach 

----~---1 
l 

~ 'THE OBSERVER ~ I 
I I


IEWPOINT I I 
Friday, April 22, 2005 page 13 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Celebrate Earth Day through positive action 
Earth Day is a time wlwn we nxamine our impact on the planet and makn pnrsonal rosolutions to lwlp make the environment cleaner and improvn tlw tn~atmnnt ol' animals. What many ol' us have yet to discovt~r is that orw ol' the most important actions we can tah for thn plarwt has to do with our food choices. 
Most animals raisnd today for food an~ forced to live inside IHrj.ln wan•houses known as factory farms. Almost IJS percent of egg-laying lwns,aro rnstrietod to overcrowded cages too tiny for thnm to spread their wings. They're often starved !'or up to two wnnks to shock their bodies in'to another egg­laying cyclt•. Tlwsn birds an~ never able to partake in natural hnhavior, breathe fresh air or even go outside. 
Those chicktms raised for meat are selectively bred and given loads of antibiotics to reach market weight as quickly as possiblt~. This process takes only 45 days, nearly twice as fast as it did in the I1J50s. Forced rapid growth is responsible for an imnwnse amount of suffering, including heart problems and painful 



U-WIRE 
Culture war underway in the U.S. 
Tlwn~·s a battl1• going on for thn soul of tlw United States. Don't believe me'? Just ask Bill O'Heilly, who nunn out and said it in his syndicawd column this .January, writing that then• is a culture war raging throughout the USA 
Alex

and blaming it on 
Koppelman

"secular forces that 
sen any Christian pub­
University of 

lic display I.L'> un 
Pennsylvania

a!l'ront." Or ask I louse 
Daily

Majority Leader Tom 
Pennsylvanian

DeLay, who wrote in a lnttnr to the Traditional Values Coalition that "for the last 40 years. the anti­Christian left in America has waged a sus­tairwd attack against faith in c;od, tradi­tional moral norms. the rule of law and thn traditional marriagc-basnd family." 
O'Hnilly and DeLay are right about one thing: There is undoubtedly a cultural war taking place in the United States, one that will have rcpnreussions for genera­tions to come. But it was not started by godless libnrals. as they would have you b«>liPvn. It was started by a group of' nxtn•misL<; who want the world created in their image and who are becoming more inthwntial by the day. 
In Llw sPnwstl'r I have spent writing this column. I have bt~nn accused, in com­nwnts on dailypt~nnsylvanian.com and in a Jan. 19 column by Jennifer Weiss, of bdng anti-Christian. That is not the case. Indeed, t believe that Christianity has oftnn bn1~n a force for good in modern limns. Christians led the civil rights move­nwnt; tlwy are at the li>refront of many of the country's major charities. Many are led by their faith to wonderful acL'> of kindness and compassion. I attend1~d a Quaker school for 14 years. and I saw then~ the incredible power that Christianity can have to change the world for tlw better. 
My problem is with the forces of evan­gelical Christianity, ever more prevalent in the highnst levels of government and media, that are seeking to remake this country as a theocracy. These people don't want you to b1~ able to live your life tlw way you want to lead it; they don't want you to have access to anything they personally disapprove of. They don't want your children to learn about evolution, and all too many of them don't want your children to learn that honwsnxuals might be people, too. 
In a eolumn entitled "Suicide by Secularism?" which ran in The Washington Post this past Sunday, conser­vative columnist Gtmrge Will wrote about what he perceives as an increasing secu­larity that thn~atens the very survival of 
Europe and the United States. 
"The challenge confronting the church can be expressed in one word: moderni­ty," he wrote. "The church preaches that freedom is life lived in conformity to God's will as manifested in revelation and inter­preted by the church." Modernity teaches that freedom is the sovereignty of the individual's will-personal volition that is spontaneous, unconditioned, inviolable and self-legitimizing. 
Will hit the nail on the head. The "cul­ture war" being fought in the United States may seem like a series of uncon­nected battles over abortion rights, homo­sexual marriage and what we can or can't watch on television. But in the end, the light comes down to two sides, and the choice is black and white. Eventually, we will all be asked to make the same choice the inhabitants of countries ruled by Islamic law once were: Do we believe that we should be allowed to act as free peo­ple, or do we believe that a particular religion's interpretation of God's law should dictate our daily life? 
Evidence that the war is raging is all around us. We can see it in our schools. where the scientific theory of evolution by natural selection, the veracity of which only a few fringe scientists dispute, is under attack by people who argue that in the interests of fairness and balance, the Christian story of creation must be taught I.L'> well. The creation stories of the thou­sands of other world religions arc, of course, ignored. We can see it in our media, where a light against indecency in broadcasting is slowly stripping us of the freedom to see even movies like "Saving Private Ryan" on 'IV because of the com­plainl'i of a small but active minority. We can see it in the new NBC miniseries "Hcvclations," which depicts scientists as unwilling to look for God and doctors as dark. ominous forces seeking to take the life of an instrument of God whose physi­cal state is remarkably similar to Terri Schiavo's before her death. 
This eulture war has not abated, and it seems increasingly likely that it will not until every demand of this extremist fringe is met. It's up to the rest of us not to retreat as our freedoms are taken away. 
This column originally appeared on April 21 in the Daily Pennsylvanian, the daily newspaper ofthe University of Pennsylvania. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
leg disorders. These chickens, like their egg-laying counterparts, never escape the stench of their own feces nor do they step foot outside. · Pigs arc also intensively confined in factory farms. Mother pigs are held in cratPs too narrow for them to turn around or move to change din~ction, while their piglets have their tails cut ofT and arc castrated, both without painkillers. Hight here at the Notre Dame, students can help animals raised for food by urging dining services not only to offer more vegetarian meals, but to stop purchasing the most abusive animal products. It's hard to imagine a better way . to celebrate Earth Day. 
Josh Balk Outreach Coordinator The Human~ Society of the United States April21 
Anti-American, or just anti-Bush? 
It was reported in The Tennessean that six months ago Judge Barry Tatum, from Lebanon, Tenn., ordered Felipa Herrera to learn English. The consequence if she did not was losing her child. 
Sandi
The mother is. cur­

Van Orden
rently in a battle to keep her parental 

Middle State 
rights for other rea­

Tennessee 
sons, and while 

. University
there may be cause 
Sidelines 

to remove Herrera's child from her home, the language she speaks is not one of them. 
Parents have the right to raise their children in the manner that they feel is appropriate as long as this does not endanger the well-being and develop­ment of the child. 
For that reason, the only cause to remove a child from a home 
should be an action that country, it would be con­does endanger the wel­sidered useful for a fare of the child. child to learn the lan­Unfortunately, Tatum guage. llowever. that has crossed the line does not mean that by ordering Berrea English should be to learn English. the only languagP 
It has not yet the child speaks. been decided in or that the parents other courts if should be fluent in Berrera is guilty of the language. neglect or abuse. Forcing someone and if that is the to either learn a new case then her child language or lose their should be placed else­child is not only unrea­where. sonable to the parent, it 
If the court finds that she is unfair for the child. 
is not guilty of these acts then the language she speaks should not be the deciding factor. 
There are many things people learn from their parents and extended fam­ily; family history and unique tradi­tions are some of them. Language is a part of the family history and tradi­
tion, and a language other than 
English should not be looked on as less important in the family teachings 
of a child. 

The family heritage and support system is not something that should be taken lightly, and should always be considered when there is the possibil­ity of removing a child from a home. 
In many ways a child's identity is related to his or her upbringing and the influence of the child's family. 
There are unique situations for fam­ilies from various cultural back­grounds who move to the United States, but those situations could have a greater influence in creating a posi­tive outcome for the child than being taken from his or her home in order to be placed with a family that seems 
to better fit the mold. 
This column originally appeared on April 21 in Sidelines, the daily newspa­per ofMiddle State Tennessee University. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 14 
Friday, April22, 2005 
Bajawalla hits Battle of the Bands and Pigtostal 
Notre Dame alumni Lawrence Santiago, David Miller, Peter Miller and Mike Miamone and junior Bobby Seus from Station One reform and head back to the stage with a new name 
By MOLLY GRIFFIN 
Scene Writer 

The lives of the members of Bajawalla have taken different directions since most of the primary members graduated, but they are reuniting for Notre Dame's Battle of the Bands and a few other performances before they spend the summer touring Chicago. 
The band's upbeat performances and catchy songs made it a prominent figure on the campus music scene, and the band sur­vived graduation, changing members and a range of monikers in order to return to per­form this weekend. 
Members of Bajawalla include vocalist Lawrence Santiago, guitarist David Miller, drummer/trumpeter Peter Miller, key­boardist Mike Miamone and bassist Bobby Seus. Justin Brandon will be joining the band for this weekend's shows and for the summer. Lee Elsey will fill in as bassist for this weekend's shows while Bobby Seus is studying abroad in Dublin. 
The band formed in spring 2000 and has gone through a variety of names, including the Island Boys and Station One, and they won NAZZ in 2002. The band has changed lineups many times since then, and its cur­rent lineup was solidified in September 2003 when Bobby Seus joined the band. 
The band took a break so that the mem­bers, many of whom had graduated, could pursue other things in their lives. Lawrence Santiago pursued a modeling and acting career and just finished work on "The New World" with Colin Farrell. Mike Maimone took a job with an accounting firm, and Dave Miller went on to pursue a Ph.D. in Organic Chemistry. Peter Miller went to medical school while Bobby Seus continued to study music at Notre Dame. 
While they were all focused on their vari­ous careers this past year, they decided to reunite for the summer because, according to Peter Miller, "There was a void in all of our lives during this break -music. There was still a dream in all of us -pursuing music with full force and 'trying to make it.' So we decided this is the summer to pursue our dream." 
The musicians are currently in the process of booking shows and continue to work promoting their shows and honing their performance skills. 
Bajawalla has a distinct sound, somewhat reminiscent of surf music from California, and is not exactly the kind of music that you would expect to come out of Indiana. The variety of performers that influenced the band might have something to do with this geographical anomaly. 
"We have a vary eclectic sound, drawing on influences from Bob Marley, Phish, Sublime, Ben Harper, punk, ska, bluegrass, blues, jazz, funk, reggae," Dave Miller said. "Many people compare us to a fusion of Sublime, Maroon 5 and Ben Harper to name a few." 
Its songs, especially ones like "Cinderella," are catchy and sound extremely polished and radio-ready. 
The band has played in many of the main South Bend venues, including Lula's, the State Theatre, Reekers, Legends and Club 
23. It typically draws somewhere between 100 and 250 people to its shows, and its members are all moving to the Chicago area for the summer in order to pursue music full time and to tour. 
''I'm really excited that we're really just 

Michael V 
Singer-songwrite1 
ByBOBCOSTA 
Scene Writer 
Although he has never visited ~ Dame's storied campus, Michael To feels he has been there a million tirr his mind. 
A popular emerging singer-songV' and lifelong Fighting Irish fan, Tolcl excited about playing at Leg 

Michael Tolcher covers diverse hits to Tag Team's "Whoomp, There It Is 
Irishpaloc 

By BOB COSTA 
Scene Writer 
Since the late 1970s, "Saturday Live" has been considered the pr television show on which an up coming-artist can appear. But, if yo many Notre Dame stu­dents, the real place to see hot, but still rela­tively anonymous, rock "Most bands is on Fox's "The O.C.," which broadcasts done o every Thursday. From studio Death Cab for Cutie to 
was

Modest Mouse to The 
short

Killers, "The O.C." cre­ator Josh Schwartz has been instrumental in 
Ha 

building the momentum behind the recent indie rock resurgence through his television show. 
"One of the trendiest, hippest, e bands I have seen on ["The O.C."] i Walkmen," said freshman Phil Ore an avid watcher of "The O.C." "As of the show, I've enjoyed seeing bands, kind of out of the mainst get some props on TV." 
The Walkmen, who recently rel their second album "Bows and Arr jumping right into it because we haven't played together in a long time," Seus said. ''I'm confident that we can do some great things." 

Downloads from the band's first album "The Breaks" can be found on its Web site, located at www.bajawalla.com or www.isound.com/bajawalla. 
The band has been advised by former executives and vice presidents from major record labels like Columbia, and has been encouraged by its mentors to continue play­ing and recording music. 
Bajawalla will be performing at the Notre Dame Battle of the Bands on Friday, April 20 (check their Web site to find out what time they play). It will also perform at Pigtostal on Saturday, April 21 with The Overtone, Dave Moisan, Da Natural and others, and it will be at the State Theatre from 9 p.m. to midnight the same day with The Updogs, Dave Moisan, Da Natural and OJ Kirsh. It will be touring the Chicago area this summer, and information about dates and locations will be available on its Web site as well. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Friday, April 22, 2005 


page I 5 
-

lcher discusses music and his love of Notre Dame 
lays a unique brand of guitar-driven rock, blending world beat,. hip-hop, soul and pop 
Saturday evening as one of the headlin­ing acts in thn Student Union Board's AnTostal concert. "Whnn I was growing up, I had all the intnrloeking-NI> sweatshirts and hats," Tokhnr said in an intervinw earlier this week. "!Notre J>amnl was the place I always thought I'd go. I really identify with its eommunity spirit and sense of spirituality." Blending an infectious mix of southern  rock, world beat, hip-hop and pop, Bootie & the Blowfish and Collective Tolcher recently released his debut Soul. Just this week, in the few days album, "I Am," which has garnered a before he plays at Legends, Toleher will fervent following on college campuses have opened for Howie Day, My around the country. Chemical Homanee Hecorded by Chris and Pat McGee Band. Shaw (Bob Dylan, Toleher's touring Weezer, Dashboard "When I was growing up, band, comprised of Confessional), "I Am" William Duvall on gui­I had all the interlocking­aptly melds hooky tar, Big Tiny on bassND sweatshirts and hats.rhythms with Tolcher's and Lefty Thompson optimistic lyrieal mes­I really identify with its on drums has been sage. You may have together for over acommunity spirit andheard the album's sec­year and has won sense of spirituality. " ond track, "Sooner Or praise from many  has already been playing on WVFI and been spreading around dorms through numerous CD samplers and MP:~ 111es. "There might bn conflkt around tlw world, but our group of people on Notre Dame's campus will be together, nnjoy­ing life and all that's to como, if' just for a littln while," Toleher said. "It's going to be a great party. I just want to help J'adl­itate that vibe, join that vibe, and feel it myself. I hope to leavn Notrn Dame inspired." Contact Bob Costa at rcostal@nd.edu  
Later" on TV, which is  audiences for its abili­ 
the  theme  song  for  Michael Tolcher  ty to jam and segue  
ABC's "Life Know lt."  as  We  singer-songwriter  from song to song dur­ing the live show.  
"There are so  many  "We've been togeth­ 
dimensions  in  my  er  for about  a  year  
music,  and  I  think  and  four  months  - 
mostly what people hear is hope  - the  and we're down to a core group of four  
describing of experiences and the  won­ guys," Toleher said. "With the four there  
ders of life," Tolcher said. "My music  is more  power than with live, more bal­ 
embraces the ups and downs, the cyeles  ance  ...  more  solid.  It's  been  cool  
of emotion. It is unguarded honesty."  because we've lived with each other.  
His debut album is hard to typecast, as  We're a fateful match, and pretty much  
Tolcher encompasses his experiences  came together out of' nowhere."  
into  a  sound  that  Tolcher is known to  
reaches beyond any  cover a  diverse array  
specil'ic genre. From  of tunes  in  concert,  
his enthusiastic single "Mission Responsible,"  "It's going to be a great  from Buffalo Springfield's "For What  
which challenges lis­teners to enlighten themselves, to the trip­hop bounciness of  party. I just want to help facilitate that vibe, join that vibe, and feel it  It's Worth" to Tag Team's early-1990s hit "Whoomp, There It Is," which earned a ratt­ 
"Taxi Ride,. Kind a Night," "I Am" is a vivid and bright  myself I hope to leave Notre Dame inspired. "  , cous ovation for Tolcher at Muhlenberg College last week.  
release.  Notre Dame will surely  
for  the  past  two  Michael Tolcher  be exposed to  a  mon­ 
years, Michael Tolcher has been touring  singer-songwriter  tage of Tolcher's hip­hop, soul and rock  
relentlessly, opening  influences.  
for Maroon 5, Gavin  Tolcher is eager to  
1  Photo courtesy of www.mlchaeltolcher.com  DeGraw,  Hanson,  finally  come  to Notre  
Dm Buffalo Springfield's "For What It's Worth"  Ingram Hill, The Funky Meters, George  Dame tomorrow evening and see what  
sometimes earning standing ovations.  Clinton, Virginia Coalition, Sister Hazel,  Notre Dame is really all about. His music  but has always been a fan.  

a welcomes The Walkmen and Ambulance LTD 
will be playing at Legends tomorrow Gore, Senator Even Bayh, and Brit "Most of the songs were done on lirst zation is sponsoring lrishpalooza at nvnning with co-hnadlinPrs Ambulance llume. Moving to New York was both a take in the studio, and the record was Legends, the three-band festival will be LTD and Michael Toleher. The show breath of fresh air for the band and an completPd in a short amount of time," both unprecedented and wide-ranging. starts at <J p.m. opportunity to explore New York's said Leithauser. "llrishpaloozal is a full-blown free con­
~ht Hamilton l.eithauser, tho lead vocalist diverse rock scene. Ambulance LTD, another band playing cert with three top up and eoming inr and guitarist for Thn Walkmen, spoke The Walkmen took it upon themselves at lrishpalooza, is also from New York nationally touring artists, all in nd with The Observer in a phone interview to make their own music, actually build­City and recently released its self-titled Legends," Flaherty said. "Legends will tsk earlier this week. For him, being on ing a record studio in Harlem that they debut album. be set-up using a back­I "The O.C." was almost could use exclusively or rent out. Featuring music field, which will allow stu­surreal. Dubbed Marcata Recording, the studio is that is a bit more dents outside enjoying "It was really weird the place the band recorded its new pop and atmospher­free food to wateh the because lots of people album "Bows and Arrows" and its debut ic than The "It was just a completely show live on large video
.he songs were 
were in this room with 2002 effort "Everyone Who Pretended to Walkmen, different world, and we and plasma scronns." rst take in the us, a bunch of' extras, Like Me Is Gone." Ambulance LTD is Flaherty likened the set­
were in the middle of a

nd the record and all acting like they "When we did the first record, it was still right on the up of lrishpalooza to that were huge fans whenev­when we were just beginning to own forefront of New long tour. but hey, it paid of the House of Blues in
npleted in a 
er director said 'action,"' Marcata studios since it was built right York's resurgent really well and was Chicago, where not every­ount of time." I.eithauser said. "It was when the band was started," Leithauser music scene. If you one is in direct sight line
lots offun. " 

just a completely differ­said. "We didn't really know what we enjoy Franz of the stage, but will be ~~nt world, and we were were doing and laid down some basic Ferdinand or The able to hear live musk
n Lelthauser 
in the middle of a long tracks. We hadn't even played live at Kinks, you should Hamilton Lelthauser and watch via telnvision. 
Walkmen 
tour, but hny, it paid all." definitely cheek out The Walkmen The inside dub will be really well and was lots Still, "Everyone Who Pretended to Like Ambulance lTD this utiliznd to fulfill maximum ofl'un." Me Is Gone" featured tracks that were Saturday. capacity of 629 peopln Originally all from both moody and introspective with a sort Michael Tolcher, a and the "backl'ield" will ~st Washington. D.C., the live members of of jaded edge in their cackling anthems. prolific singer/song-hold an additional 920 he Tho Walknwn movnd to Nnw York City Songs such as "Wake Up," "We've Been writer with a dynamic band, will also people, making total eapaeity 1,549. The til, around 19<JH. as they all headed to dil'­llad," and "Hue the Day" are full being playing at lrishpalooza. For fans of restaurant at Legends can hold 200 'an l'e ren t 11 n i v e r siti e s in tho city. melodies bridged with angular riffs and Jack Johnson, Peter Gabriel, or Tracy more. With two large tnnts in back of ·at lnternstingly, the entire band attended soaring vocals. Chapman, Tolcher is the guy most likely Legends, the lrishpalooza sot-up will bn Ill, high school at St. Alban's School for Boys The new album, "Bows and Arrows," to win you over with his acoustic world­bigger than anything Legends has seen 
in Washington, D.C., one of tho nation's was made after the band had played a beat meats funk rock. this year. ed most elite private institutions and home lot of live shows, gained greater stage According to Student Union Board 
.. 
s, to alumni likn former Viee President AI chemistry, and generally had more unity. Manager Jimmy Flaherty, whose organi-Contact Bob Costa at rcostal@nd.edu 

Friday, April 22, 2005

page 16 The observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
MLB 

Thome and Lieber form tag team in 6-3 victory 
Thome ends his homer drought and Lieber delivers solid pitching 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA -With one swing. Jim Thome unloaded some soaring stress. With another efficient and effective outing, Jon Lieber looked more and more like Philadelphia's ace. 
Thome ended his season-long homer drought to back another solid outing from Lieber, who became the major leagues' first four-game winner in the Philadelphia Phillies' victory over the Colorado Rockies. 
"It's always nice to get going," Thome said. 
With Thome slugging, Lieber cruising and Billy Wagner fin­ishing with a save. this was exactly how the Phillies expect­ed to contend in the NL East. 
Lieber (4-0) so far has lived up to his billing as the ace of Philadelphia's otherwise so-so staff. He's done what No. 1 starters are supposed to -stop losing streaks. In his previous start. he snapped Philadelphia's three-game skid and ended a two-game losing streak in this one. 
''I'm just getting the ball every 
fifth game and trying to help us 
win a ballgame," said Lieber. 
whose answers are as expedi­
tious as his innings. 
Lieber. who signed a $21 mil­
lion. three-year contract in 
December, gave up nine hits and 
struck out only one in eight 
innings. But it was his second 
straight start where he didn't 
walk anyone. 
A 20-game winner with 
Chicago in 2001. Lieber has 
delivered for the Phillies in his 
return to the National League. 
He's the first Philadelphia pitch­
er to win his first four starts ·or 
the year since Dennis Cook in 
1990 and pitched at least eight 
innings in his last three starts. 
Cardinals 4, Cubs 0 
Chris Carpenter is 5-1 against the Chicago Cubs since the start of the 2004 season. Apparently, 
CLASSIFIEDS 


familiarity isn't helping the opposition. 
"It's all about pitching," Carpenter said after throwing a seven-hitter in the St. Louis Cardinals' victory. "Hitting is hard. If you make good pitches that aren't elevated in the zone and keep people off-balance. you're going to have success." 
Scott Rolen homered, hit his 300th career double and had three RBis for St. Louis. Rolen, the cleanup hitter most of the season, was moved down to fifth for only the second time. and his big day raised his average to only .228. 
"My last at-bat I was able to relax a little bit," Rolen said. "Not until you relax do you real­ize how much you're pressing." 
The Cardinals. who broke open a one-run game in the eighth inning on homers by Larry Walker and Rolen, are 32­10 at home against the Cubs during the last six seasons and denied them a sweep of a two­game series. 
Chicago, which learned before the game that shortstop Nomar Garciaparra would be out two to three months because of a torn groin. hasn't had a sweep in St. 
Louis since 1988. 
"That's tough for us, regard­less of what he's hitting," pitch­er Ryan Dempster said of Garciaparra's injury. "Anytime you lose a guy like that. it's huge." 
Carpenter (3-1) struck out six and walked one in his sixth career shutout and his first since Sept. 4, 2001, against the New York Yankees. It was his 14th career complete game and first since last Aug. 26 at Cincinnati and it was also his first nine-inning complete game since 2001. 
Chicago had two runners on in an inning three times. but Carpenter. who also retired 11 in a row at one point early in the game. kept escaping. 
Twins 10, Royals 9 
Lew Ford hit a one-out single with the bases loaded in the 
1Oth  inning  that  lifted  the  
Minnesota  Twins  past  the  
Kansas City Royals.  

Jason Bartlett doubled with one out against Shawn Camp (0­1), Torii Hunter was intentional­ly walked and Matthew LeCroy singled to load the bases. Ford's bouncer up the middle scored 

Bartlett to end it. Joe Nathan (1-0) struck out the side in the 10th. 
Angel Berroa's single drove in Mike Sweeney in the ninth to put the Royals ahead briefly. Sweeney arrived at home the same time as left fielder Lew Ford's three-hop throw, crash­ing into Mike Redmond and forcing the dazed catcher out of the game with bruised ribs. 
Closer Mike MacDougal relin­quished the lead and nearly lost it in the bottom of the ninth, which started with a four-pitch walk to Hunter, who cored on a high-bouncing doublt' down the left-field line by JacquP Jones. Pinch-hitter Terry Ti!Tee struck out with the bases loaded. end­ing the inning. 
Hunter hit a two-run homer for the Twins in the first. and LeCroy followed him with a solo shot. Hunter drove in three runs. giving him 15 this season. 
John Buck and Emil Brown each busted slumps for the Royals, who tied it at 8 against Matt Guerrier in a three-run sixth. Buck. the catcher acquired from Houston in last summer's trade of Carlos Beltran, homered to lead off the inning. Calvin Pickering walked and then Brown hit a two-run shot. 
Buck. who went 4-for-5. got his first RBI in 20 games and boosted his batting average from .135 to .220. Brown. who ended an 0-for-21 slide, had two hits. 
Relievers Mike Wood and Andrew Sisco combined for five scoreless innings aftPr Brian Anderson was remov<~d. But after tying it, the Hoyals wasted two prime chances to take the lead. 
Ruben Gotay was caught stealing home on a botched squeeze play when Tony Graffanino whiffed on his one­out bunt attempt in the sixth. Gotay bounced to drawn-in sec­ond baseman Luis Rivas with one out in the eighth, but Rivas threw out Buck at home. · 
Devil Rays' 3, Rangers 2 
Dewan Brazelton snapped his seven-game losing skid and Carl Crawford had a tiebreaking groundout in the Tampa Bay Devil Rays' victory over the Texas Rangers. 
Brazelton (1-3) allowed two runs and four hits in 6 1-3 innings. He struck out four and walked three in picking up his first win since beating Oakland August 22. a span of 10 starts. 
Crawford put the Devil Rays up 3-2 on a run-scoring ground­ball to shortstop in the sixth. It was his team-leading 15th HBI. 
After Travis Harper pitched 1 2-3 scoreless innings. Danys Baez came on for the ninth. IIe put runners on first and third with two outs before getting pinch-hitter Gary Matthews Jr. to line out to center for his first savP. 
Mark Teixeira and KPvin Mench homered for the Hangers. Kenny Rogers (0-2) gave up three runs on seven hits and three walks over six innings. He struck out four. Hogers fell to 8-2 in 11 career starts against the Devil Rays. 
Tampa Bay scored twice in the second, aided by Rangers right fielder Richard Hidalgo's error. 
Jonny Gomes had a leadoff single and scored on Toby Hall's single when Hidalgo made an errant throw attempting to get Gomes at third. Hall then scored on Nick Green's single to make it 2-0. 
Texas had just one base run­ner -a second-inning walk to David Dellucci before Teixeira hit a solo homer with two outs in the fourth. 
The Rangers tied it at 2-all on Mench's leadoff homer in the fifth. It was his second Pxtra basn hit of th!' season. Thn first was a bases-loaded trip!!~ in Wndnesday's 12-10 win over the Devil Rays. 
Texas threatened to take the lead in the sixth. but Brazelton struck out Hidalgo with two on and two outs. 
Brazelton had allowed nine 

runs. 11 hits and 12 walks over 
8 2-3 innings over his previous 
two starts. 
Rogers worked out of a bases loaded, two-out jam in the first by inducing Jorge Cantu to fly out to right. The Devil Rays arc just 1-for-8 with the bases loaded this season. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. co 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Black leather wallet of Visiting Fellow @ Kroc Peace Institute miss­ing Disappeared Tues 4/12 in/around Hesburgh Center for Inti Studies. Most problematic loss: driv­er s license (pink, NL), very difficult to replace. If seen, PLS RETURN, drop off at Kroc lnst., no questions asked.Thx M Parlevliet, tel 1-2628/1-0253; parlevliet.1 @nd.edu 
Silver pen in green leather pen 
case. Lost near Snite Museum on 
April 16th. $50 reward. Call631­
5873 
WANTED 
Roommate to share rent for my 2bdrm apt. 570·814·2716 or email: mmurph21 @nd.edu 
Summer Camp Jobsl Work with people with disabilities. Great JOb experience,fun people,make money! Near Wisconsin Dells. www. EasterSealsWisconsin.com or call 1 800422.2324 

Professor seeking full-time nanny for summer and/or beyond. Competitive salary. References and transportation required. Contact Alesha Seroczynski at 247·1064 for more information. 
FoR SALE 
New London Lakes Condo, walking distance to NO, 3 bedrooms. 2 baths, lake view, 2 car garage, pool, completely remodeled $129,900 (574) 256-2198 or (574) 255-3930 
Brand name Queen pillowtop mat· tress set. New in plastic. Full warranty. $185. 574-876-4474 
Full mattress set with warranty. Unopened in Plastic. Sacrifice $145. 57 4-231-4522. 
IRISH CROSSINGS Luxurious, spa­cious hornes one block east of cam­pus. Walk to campus yearround. Closer to the Joyce Center than 24 of the 27 dorms! Now under con­struction! For more information: Go to: www.lrishCrossings.com Email: JrishCrossings@ gmail.com 
94 Ford Aspire,71 K,$950 OBO. 574-315·1160. 
94 Ford Aspire. 71 K,$950 OBO. 574-315-1160. 
Charming home 1407 Sarin 1/2 mi from NO, 2 BR, 1 Ba,AC,FP, Full Bsmt. Gas heat, Fenced yard,patio,Gar,Dg Kennel,all applncs. $55,000. 233-7616 
FOR RENT 
Great 6-7 bdrm home available 6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail­able NOW Both Close to NO,W/O,on-site parking. NO Internet Canopy access. Call Joe Crimmins 574-229-3659 
Clean homes close to NO. 2-8 bdrms. High-end and furnished. Ask about FREE student rent program Blue & Gold Homes (574)250-7653 
.2·6 BEDROOM HOMES WALKING DISTANCE FROM CAMPUS 708 . 
S.B AVE-605 ST PETER CALL 532·1408 MMMRENTALS COM 
6 BEDROOM 3.5 BATH. 1 BLOCK FROM CAMPUS. 1950 PER MONTH+ DEP STAFF AND FAC· ULTY ONLY CALL BRUCE 876· 3537. 

2,4 & 5 B·Rooms,close to campus, call 234-9923, ask for Rod. 
www.andersonNDrentals.com 
Furn houses on Navarre,Marion & St. Pete Sts. avail 06-07 233-9947. 
STUDENT RENTALS $400 PER MONTH All utilities. ADT security, phone/cable/OSL, W/D, Lawn service. 2,3,4,5 bdrms. Avaii.OS/06. Call 315-3215 

4-5 bdrm,2 bath house in SB. Lots of room. Call Judy 57 4-298-6217' 
2&3 bdrm houses close to NO. $350/mo/person. Lawn service & appliances incl. 273-4889 
5-bedroom house for rent 2005-06 Close to campus 105 Marquette Ave. 232-6964 
2 bdrm, 1 bath remodeled furnished house close to NO, $700/mo. 2844089,9·5pm, 703·7276217 after 5pm 
Furnished 1-bdrm apt. Free laundry. No smokers,no pets. On bus route,2 mi to ND. 350+utilities. 289-9365. 
2005·06 $250-300/mo. Furn.rooms. Country setting,1 0 mi to NO. Non-smokers. Private entrance,laundry,kitch­enette,cable & util incl. 289·9365. 
4 bdrm house, 1.5 ba.Furnished. Family or 2 grad students. $900/mo + utilities. Close to NO. 287·7189 or lv msg 

Beautiful suite available for gradua· lion, football weekends and all spe· cial events. Near NO. Reasonably priced NO alum owner/managed. 574·271-7205 
GREAT LOCATION 522 Napoleon 4blks from NO 2bdrm remodeled home available 5/1 $600' (219 )629·5483 
NO Grad Student renting studio apt. for 05/06 year 1 mile from NO $400/mo includes all utilities + cable TV + internet 574-339·0582. 
to my roommates in apt. 1 08: i can't wait for next year! senior year is going to rock! 
sunday night with sue and double-decker tacos ...i will miss it dearly! 
kp--good luck on your last week of classes! 
Happy Birthday Emily Burgardtl Have a wonderful day! : ) -love your favorite sophomore, Gina 
... and i hadn't gotten in trouble since the eighth grade! 
e. m, and a take on the blue and gold game..can you handle it? 
TGIF! I 

r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­hiday, April 22, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NO WOMEN'S CREW 
Rowers will take on Ivy League teams in regatta 
By KYLE CASSII.Y 
Sports Writer 
SpringtinH~ along tlw Charles Hivn in Boston -normally punrtuatPd by !Ti!~S from rwarby io'f'nway !'ark-will be intnrrupt­!'d by thP cn•ws of NotrP I >anw. ll•u·vard and Ya!P this W!~PkPrHI. 
Tlw Irish wom!'n's crew tPam will trav!'l to Massarhusntts to · fan• oil' in tlw n~gatta along tlw Charles lwforP heading south to Jl!'arby Worc!•stPr for tlw Big l~ast Championships. Both rngat­tas will prPSPilt tlw Irish wonwn with som!' of tlwir touglwst com­pnlilion of tlw season. 
i\t the pn~stigious Ivy League schools of llarvard and Yale. rowing has been a tradition that wm; establislwd decades prior to tlw formation of many otlwr var­sity cn~ws. But history and past accolades do not scare Irish coach Martin Storw. 
Stone and his team will cruise into New l~ngland expecting to nmnrge with victories over the Ivies and the best tlw Big East has to om~r. l lis confidence in his team prevents any doubt of ddeat to prnsPnt iLo.;df. 
"We are Notre l>ame," Stone said. "W!~ are expecting to race the best. Just like our football t!~am wlwn it goes to face USC. we go to win no matter who we an• playing." 
Curn~ntly, the unranked Irish varsity !~ight io.; righting for its NCA/\-eligible life. i\ victory over llarvard and Yale li>llowed by a Big East Championship would place the Irish in a much stronger position in the commit­t!)e's eyes leading up to the Central Hegionals. 
This year is the first year that tlw Big East organization will host a tnw championship. The league first organized what it callPd a "Challenge" five years ago. Syracuse emerged victorious for the first three years that the Challenge was held, with the Irish finishing in second each time. But last year the Irish head­ed east to knock Syracuse ofl' its pedestal and succeeded. The Big East Challenge victory was one of many wins that year that pro­pelled the varsity eight into the NC/\As. 
With the first Big East Championship looming, Syracuse is yet again the major threat to an Irish victory. The Orangemen are ranked 16th nationally and seek to garner their fourth Big East title in five years. 
Stone feels with a victory over Syracuse, his varsity eight will be able to push its way back into the top-20 national rankings, yet another key step towards an NCM bid. And it will all begin on Saturday if the Irish women can handle the storied Crimson on their home river. 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles snap four-game skid 
Bethel College falls to Saint Mary's in close 5-4 matchup 
By TIM DOUGHERTY Sports Writer 
i\fter an agonizing two weeks of losses against a brutal conf!'r­ence schedule of the best the Ml/\1\ had to offer -llope, Kalamazoo, i\lbion and Calvin -the Belles looked outside their conference Thursday for a victory to lift their conlidence. 
They snapped their four-game skid by defeating Bethel College 5-4 despite the absence of two 
regulars. 
Freshman Cassie Quaglia and sophomore i\rmene Gavoor replaced junior co­captain and No. 1 singles Kristen Palombo and sophomore No. 6 singles Mary Beth Pavela, who missed the match due to late Thursday classes that conflicted. Gavoor and Quaglia proved 

Quaglia also won her No. 6 always beaten them in the past. singles match with veteran com­but it's delinitely nice to know posure. Up 4-1 in the third set. we can win a match again. It 
Quaglia lost four  was  good  to  get  
straight points to  some conf'idl~nce  
fall behind 5-4. but, unfazed by the sudden momentum  "Everyone felt a lot more relieved and felt 'oh. we can do  back in us." The victory brings the Saint Mary's record to 5­ 
swing. she quick­ this now.'"  9, and tlw BP!les  
ly recovered to  remain  til'd  for  
take the next and final two points for the match.  Kristin Palombo Belles co-captain  firth in tlw confPr­ence at 1-4. This Saturday  

"Cassie did really well," Palombo said. "She really hung with it. That was really awn­some because she's never played that competitive a match before. She didn't let her nerves 
"Cassie did really well. She really hung with it. That was really awesome because she's never played that competitive a match before." 
Kristin Palombo Belles co-captain 
effective 
got to her when she started get­ting down." 
In Palombo's absence, sopho­mores Cailc McDavitt and Cailo Mulcahy dominated No. 1 doubles with a 9­0 showing. 
Palombo said the long overdue victory -their third in three years against Bethel -was critical for the 
the !kilns will trav­

el to Grand Hapids. Mich., for the second time in orw week to take on the Saints of Aquinas College (8-2) in anotlwr non-conf!)rence match. Saint Mary's has dominated tlw SainLo.; the past two years winning 8-l last year and 9-0 in 2003. Both dominated Tri-State University. their only common foe this year. as the Belles won 9-0 and the Saints bnat them 8-1. 
Still, Palombo holds the sanw expectations as she did for tlH~ match against Bethel, as the three-time defending tourna­ment champions are again look­ing to their second consecutive non-conference match to steer them back towards a solid tour­nament showing. 
"We're hoping to get some confidence back and get on a good roll going into thP !Mii\A) tournament next weekend." sh<' said. 
Contact Tim Dougherty at tdougher@nd.edu 
replacements in their Iirst ofli­cial action all year, teaming up for a 9-2 victory in the No. 3 doubles superset against the Pilots. 

team as a whole. 
"Everyone felt a lot morP relieved and felt 'oh, we can do this now,"' she said. "I mean we expected to win because we've 

----------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Friday, April 22, 2005

page 18 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S GOLF 

Irish host Big East tourney 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Writer 
For the Irish, this weekend's Big East Championship is a time to play the role of selfish host. 
Sure, they'll be cordial to the competition. but head coach Jim Kubinski wants the team to run away from its opponents as fast as possible. 
"Our goal is going to be to try and get off to a fast start," .he said. "Whenever you're the top seed, if you get off to a fast start, you can take away from the other teams' confidence." 
After a dismal showing at the Aggie Invitational in College Station, Texas. the team returns home to the Warren Golf Course this weekend to host its most important tournament of the season. 
"I think we've got plenty of momentum coming off this spring we've had," Kubinski said. 
"[The Aggie Invitational] was just a bump in the road." 
Despite Notre Dame's last­place showing in Texas, Kubinski said the defending champions head into the tour­nament "confident and upbeat" as the heavy favorite and No. 1 seed. 
The Irish have three golfers competing this year who made all-conference honors last year -sophomore Cole lsban and juniors Mark Baldwin and Eric Deutsch. The trio's play will be pivotal to Notre Dame's success. 
Isban tied for third individual­
ly in last year's conference 
championship, including an 
opening rounrl of 69. Deutsch 
placed fifth in 2004, and 

Baldwin set the Warren course record two weeks ago with a seven-under 67. Freshman Mike King and junior Scott Gustafson will join their team­mates for the 54-hole tourna­ment. 
Golfstat ranks the Irish at 52 in the country -one of the highest rankings in school his­tory. In fact, Notre Dame earned three votes in the most recent GCAA/Bridgestone Coaches' Poll -the first time an Irish team has ever earned votes in the poll. 
Of the five other teams in the Big East. Rutgers owns the next best Golfstat ranking at No. 117 and is the No. 2 seed for the Big East. The Scarlet Knights won four tournaments this fall and placed second in another. Rutgers' senior Brent Pittman leads the Big East in scoring average at 72.67 shots per round. 
Georgetown (No. 3 seed). St. John's (No. 4), Boston College (No. 5) and Villanova (No. 6) comprise the rest of the field. 
The winner of the tournament receives an automatic bid into one of the three NCAA Regionals. The Southeastern Conference will host the East Regional at the Golf Club of Tennessee, while Notre Dame will host the Central Regional at Warren. Stanford will host the West Regional at the Stanford Golf Course. Each Regional will take place from Thursday, May 19, through Saturday, May 21. 
If the Irish want to play on their own course, they may have to win this week. A strong spring season that included a victory at the Nokia Sugar Bowl/Tulane Invitational may propel the Irish into the 
. Presented 8y: · · 
~ EJo~~~~!~~9E :
lwoshingtonpost.com l 
' 
Regional field if they do not defend their title, but a victory this week would take any doubt the team would have. 
That's also part of the reason Coach Kubinski wants the team to get out to a fast start. With rain, snow and wind in the forecast for the weekend, he wants his team to be ahead wire-to-wire in the event that the tournament is stopped and shortened. 
"If they shorten the even from 54 holes -if you're trailing at that point, you're out of luck," he said. If the tournament goes according to schedule and. actu­ally lasts the scheduled three rounds. two will be played on Saturday and one on Sunday. 
Irish golfers are slotted to tee off between 8:50 and 9:30 a.m. each morning. 
Notes: 
+ 
Both the men's and women's championships are this weekend at Warren. The Big East rotates which tourna­ment tees off from the first tee and which tees off from the lOth. Last year, the women began on No. 1, so this year the men will. 

+ 
The Irish beat Virginia Tech by six strokes last year to win the title. The Hokies had won three consecutive Big East Titles from 2001 through 2003. 


Because of their move to the ACC. this will be the first year since 2000 that the I lokies will not be competing at the Big East Championships. Incidentally, Virginia Tech placed last in this week's ACC Championships. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler@nd.edu 
MLB 

Angels rally to defeat Indians in 6-5 victory 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. -Orlando Cabrera homered leading off the bottom of the 1Oth inning to cap the Los Angeles Angels' rally from a 5-0 deficit in a 6­5 win over the Cleveland Indians on Thursday night. 
Cabrera hit a 3-1 pitch into the lower seats in the left field corner against Jason Davis (1­1 ), the seventh Cleveland pitcher. 
Francisco Rodriguez (1-0) pitched a perfect 1Oth inning for the victory. 
The Angels tied the game at 5 on Garret Anderson's bloop single to center off Bob Wickman with two outs in the ninth. Darin Erstad walked and was sacrificed to second by Juan Rivera before Vladimir Guerrero struck out. The blown save was Wickman's second in six tries. 
The Indians led 5-0 after a two-out, three-run double by Jose Hernandez in the first and a two-run homer by Ronnie Belliard off Jarrod Washburn. 

Cleveland starter Kevin Millwood gave up three runs and eight hits in 5 1-3 innings, struck out five and walked two. The Indians have lost all four of Millwood's starts. 
Washburn gave up five runs and 1 0 hits in five innings and struck out five. The left-ban­der has had a no-decision in each of his four starts -all or them coming in extra inning games. 
The Indians had 13 hits, just their third game this season with 10 or more. They had been limited to four hits or less three times in their first 15 games. 
Jose Molina's RBI single off Bob Howry cut the Angels' deficit to 5-4 in the eighth. 
Students Call Before You Pack!!! Free delivery on boxes and supplies 
We als<• rupplies At M.Uo ~od Mc.K.udey Stonog~ 'TO'l E. McKinl<y Ave Mish~-..-ak4, IN 46545 

Cheap boxes!!! As low as $1.00 
Tel: 574-256-5339 


OUND THE NATION 
Friday, April 22, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THL 0BsrRvncs WIRE SERVtcrs Page 19 
ITA Rankings 
Men's 
team 

1 Baylor 
2 VIrginia 
3 Mississippi 
4 Illinois 
5 Florida 
6 UCLA 
7 Pepperdine 
8 Duke 
9 Georgia 
10 Texas Tech 
11 Kentucky 
12 Louisiana State 
13 Washington 
14 Texas A&M 
15 Oklahoma State 
16 Southern California 
17 Wake Foresl 
18 south carolina 
19 Tulane 
20 Mississippi State 
21 Stanford 
22 California 
23 Texas Corpus-Christi 
24 Ohio State 25 Florida State 
Women;s 

·t~atn•·········· 
Stanford Northweatern Kentucky vanderbilt Southern Cautornla Georgia Tech Gtl!Jrgla Florida 
UCLA 
Texas Clemson 
flll~mi!Ftl 
Nortb Carolina Baylor Oul<e Tutan11 Texas Chrlsllan rennenee 
H~tvard 
William and Mary California Brigham Youn9 Washington South Carolina NOTRE DAME 
1 
2 3 4 5 6 7 
a 
9 10 11 JW· 
13 
14 
15 
16.;:,, 
11 
1l 
19 20 21 
22 
23 24 25 
Major League Baseball 

American League East team rot:ord pt~re. .last 10 GB Boston 10-6 .625 8-2 
Baltimore 9-7 .563 6-4 1 Toronto 9-8 .529 5-5 1.5 New York 7-9 •438 3-7 •3 Tampa Bay 6·10 .375 :H 4 
American League Central tAam record last 1Q > OS ? Chicago 
12-4 
Minnesota 10·6 Cleveland 6·9 Oetrolt 6·10 Kansas City lH1 
team 
Los Angellls Seattle Texas Oakland 
National League East 

t1~am record perc. lits110 Florida 9-7 .563 6--4 Wa~hinglon 9·7 .563 6-4 .... I'!: :. Atlanla 8-8 .500 4-6 1 New York 8·8 .500 7-3 1 Philadelphia 8-8 .500 s.;s 1 

National League Central 

tenm record perc. last 10 GB St. loui~ 9-5 .643 7-3 . Clnclnnall 8-7 .533 5-5 u Chicago 8·8 .500 fi.-5 2 Houston 7-7 .500 4-6 2 Milwaukee 5·9 .357 z.a 4 Pilt,burgh 5-11 .313 3-7 5 
National League West 

team record pore. last 10 ...G1L. los Angeles 12-2 .857 9·1 Arizona 8-7 .533 6-4 4.5 San Diego 7-8 .467 4-6 5.5 San Francisco 6-8 .429 4-6 6 Colorado 4·11 .267 3-7 8.5 
around the dial 
GOLF Liberty Mutual Legends of Golf 1 p.m., ESPN PGA Tour-Shell Houston Open 4 p.m., USA Network 
SOCCER 

Fire at MetroStars 8 p.m., ESPN 2 
MLB 


Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Chicago Cubs shortstop Nomar Garciaparra will be side­lined at least two to three months because of a torn left groin. 
Garciaparra was placed on the 15-day disabled list Thursday. one day after he got hurt while leaving the batter's box during a game against St. Louis. Cubs trainer Mark O'Neal said the muscle pulled away from the bone. 
The Cubs, doctors and Garciaparra will decide in the next 10 days whether an operation is needed. 

"The surgery is really going to be determined by is it something that Nomar wants to do," O'Neal said. "We're trying to make a determination of what would be the most predictable outcome." 
If Garciaparra opts for surgery, O'Neal said the procedure should be done fairly soon so the muscle heals properly. 
The Cubs, who lost 4-0 to the Cardinals on Thursday without either of their opening-day mid­dle infielders. recalled Bonny Cedeno from Triple-A Iowa. Cedeno was batting .348 with three home runs and six RB!s in 13 games in the minors. 
"It's a setback," manag­er Dusty Baker said. "We don't know yet what is going to happen. We'll have to wait and see." 
Garciaparra was carried off the field after ground­ing into a double play and collapsing just in front of the batter's box in the third inning. Garciaparra is hitting just .157 with four HBis. 
Cubs second baseman Todd Walker also is out, perhaps until June, with a knee injury sustained April 10. For now, Chicago will have to make do with backups Neifi 

Perez at shortstop and Jerry Hairston at second base. 
''I'm not going to blame the rain," [Nomar] said. "The field was in great condition, the grounds crew did a great job. and the field was definitely playable and all of that stuff. I just slipped." 
The injury is the latest in a series of setbacks for Garciaparra since he won AL batting titles in 1999 and 2000 with the Boston Hed Sox. He was limited to 83 at-bats in 2001 after wrist surgery and he missed morn than two months last year with Achilles' tendinitis. 
IN BRIEF 
Armstrog~ strt!ggles in Tour de Georgm 
HOME, Ga. -Lance Armstrong has plenty of work to do if he wants to win a seventh straight Tour de France. 
Armstrong finished a disappoint­ing ninth in Thursday's time trial at the Tour de Georgia. nearly two minutes behind the winner in a go­all-out style of cycling he usually dominates. 
Another American. Floyd Landis. won the third stage in 39 minutes, 5H.09 seconds. The other spots on the podium also were claimed by 
U.S. riders -David Zabriskie in second and Christopher Baldwin third. 
Shockingly. Armstrong was not among them. Hacing in a light rain, he failed to make up ground on the climb up Mount Alto and had no chance of closing the gap by the time he pedaled onto the slick streets of downtown Home. 
"Clearly. I'm disappointed," said 

Armstrong, who could only manage a time of 41:44.87. "I didn't feel great, but I thought I'd do a better ride." Paxson fired as GM 
CLEVELAND -Their shocking collapse complete. the Cleveland Cavaliers began to rebuild on Thursday -from the top. 
Jim Paxson was fired as the club's general manager, dismissed by new owner Dan Gilbert one day after the Cavaliers' chaotic season ended short of the NBA playoffs for the seventh consecutive year. 
Expected for weeks. Paxson's !'ir­ing came exactly one month after coach Paul Silas was !ired with 18 games left by Gilbert, the online mortgage banker who has had a rough introduction into operating a ~ro SROrts franchise. Singh ties course record at 
Houston Open 
IIUMBLE. Texas -Fresh from inclusion in the World Golf llall of Fame, Vijay Singh tied the COj.lrsn 
record with an 8-under-par 64 for a one-shot lead Thursday after the first round of the Houston Open. 
The 42-year-old Fijian. No. 2 in the world rankings, extended his streak of par or better to 56 holes at the Hedstone Golf Club, where he won this event a year ago. 
Singh laughed when told of his bogey-free string going baek to last year. when he finished 11 under and won by two shots. 
"Don't mention that," he said. "I struck tlw ball really well today. had a very good feel of tlw gnwns and my speed was good, and when you do that you can make some birdies." 
After Singh came Australians Gavin Coli's and BrPndan Jones. Eight players were at 67. Six others. ineluding John Daly. were another shot back. 
Singh was announced Wednesday as the latest inductee into the Hall of Fame, although he said he learned three weeks ago the honor was coming. 
Friday, April 22, 2005 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS 

SMC GOLF 

Team to compete at Pine Hills 
face much." and all three have con­Saint Mary's golfers · The most difficult thing for tributed signific·antly to the Saint Mary's this weekend growth of the program inset to wind up their may be to focus on the task at recent years. 
hand and not look too far Dunham, the team captain,
outstanding season 

ahead t<1' the NCAA was named to the first. team 
Championships, which will All-MIAA for the 2004 fall By ANNA FRICANO take place in a couple of season. Sporrs Writer weeks. The team is intent on She has shown immense 
doing everything improvement in 
For the three seniors on the necessary to get the past three Saint Mary's Golf team. this themselves ready "We know that we seasons, with weekend will mark the last for the event. her average
need to focus on

regular season tournament in "We know that score drop ping which they will compete. The we need to focus this weekend from a 90.6 in Belles will travel to Baldwin­on this weekend because each the fall of 2002 Wallace College in Berea, because each to 81.73 in the
round helps us

Ohio this afternoon for the round helps us fall of 2004. annual Yellowjacket prepare for prepare for Adams has Invitational. nationals ... but nationals." taken numerous 
The event, which begins we have to be MIAA honors in tomorrow at 9 a.m., is a two­able to play well the past few
Julia Adams 

day competition taking place this . weekend years, including at the Pine Hills Golf Course too," Adams said. Belles golfer being named in Hinckley, Ohio. The Belles want All-MIAA first 
Last year's event, which the to make sure that team in 2003 Belles did not attend. fea­they don't get too ahead of and 2004. She was an MIAA tured such schools as themselves so as to compro­medalist for the 2004 season, Wilmington College, Capital mise the task at hand, espe­and a conference tournament University and John Carroll cially considering the unfa­medalist in 2002 and 2004. University. Few of the schools vorable weather conditions Simmerman rounds out the that will be at the that they will trio, having been named first event are likely to most likely be team All-MIAA for the past pose any major facing. four seasons. She was a con­
"Olivet is in our
competition for For seniors ference co-medalist in 2003, the Belles, who conference and Julia Adams, and finished in twelfth place are hoping to Chrissy Dun­at the 2004 NCAA
we'd like to beat 
take the tourna­ham and Tournament, and won the
them. The other 
ment. Stefanie Sim­national title in 2003. Conference teams we don't merman, this All three girls have earned competitor Olivet weekend will be three varsity letters so far
face much." 
College will bR at something more with the program, and all the invitational than just one have been consistent scorers 
Julia Adams 
and the Belles more tourna­for the team this spring. are hoping to Belles golfer ment before The seniors will have one perform well nationals. All last chance to hone their against them. three women skills before nationals at the 
"Olivet is in our have been invite this weekend. conference and we'd like to involved with the golf pro­beat them," said Julia Adams. gram throughout the duration Contact Anna Fricano at "The other teams we don't of their time at Saint Mary's, africaOl @nd.edu 
Enterprise Rent-a-Car I Corporate Executive Board Nationwide Insurance I Devon Health Services I NVR Cox Radio I Hajoca I Kellogg Brown & Root Services 

SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles are hopeful for happy ending 
After finishing 0-12 in MIAA, team needs a win to close season 
By TOM STILES 
Sporrs Writer 

Saint Mary's (5-21, 0-12) will try to wind up its season .on a positive note this Saturday afternoon at 1 p.m. against non­MIM conference foe Rockford College. The Belles are still fighting to get that elusive sixth win of the season d(}spite their inability to get off the snide from an 18-game losing streak. 
It has been a frustrating sea­son for the Belles, especially coming off a successful 2004 campaign in which the team won its first MIAA postseason title. Dealing with adversity has been difficult for this year's team, particularly because the team only returned five players from last year's .championship squad, not to mention bringing in a new coach who was a rook­ie herself. 
The Belles last played a week ago tomorrow, against confer­ence leader Alma College. Alma was too much for Saint Mary's, blanking them in both ends of a double-header by the scored of 6-0 and 15-0. The offense was almost non-existent on the day, as the Belles could only muster three hits for the entire after­noon. 
Game one saw freshman pitcher McKenna Corrigan givP up five runs on just five hits in two and a third innings of work. Junior Bridget Grall and sopho­more Amanda Trevino pitched in relief, holding Alma scoreless on just two hits for the last four frames. 
Grall and Corrigan helped themselves by notching the only two hits in the game for the Belles, as the rest of the team could not figure out Alma's sen­ior pitcher Leigh Ann LaFave. 
Game two was Alma College putting on a clinic, as they pun­ished Saint Mary's pitching all day long en route to 15 runs on 15 hits. On the mound. Alma had a brilliant pitching per­formancr by senior MPlissa Tavadian and sophomore Kay McDonald, who combined to throw a five inning, one-hit shutout. 
The Alma squad's offense was led by standout senior center fielder Mary Pietsch. who scored twice, and drove in three runs on three hits, including a double and a home run. As a team. Alma had four round" trippers, five extra-base hits, and no errors as opposed to the four miscues by Saint Mary's. 
After Rockford College, the Belles will finish out their sea­son with two home games against MIAA conference oppo­nents, Olivet College (17 -11, 6­
4) on Tuesday and Kalamazoo College (3-21, 2-8) on Thursday, both of which will start at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Tom Stiles at tstiles@nd.edu 


rhey £il..Y& po·o·v... /hey £il..Y& hM.1"<1 fi ·v... /hey (iLt"'0' ]'l.A)"trU?A e~y, .. 
WEARE ND. 
We will answer then prayers 

Donate··.::~~: to ;uppmt the Tsunami Victtnh ::;11 "· profits to Charity 
AVAILABLE AT THE BLUE­GOLD PICNIC 
Friday, April 22, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
ND WOMEN'S TRACK & FIELD 
Irish women continue tournament running 

CHUY BENITEZ/The Observer Notre Dame women compete In the 3,000-meter event on Feb. 5 at the Notre Dame Invitational. 
jUna noche de DRAMA y MELODRAMA! 
The Department of Romance Languages proudly presents. 
Lt~ Fuente rle t~s St'U~es ~,y "M.m·t;J 'Brit>Dn~ 
;A/.c·;JI.;) 

(A play presented by the students of ROSP 459. under the darection of Kelly Kingsbury) 
-and­

.:flm~'!' pr~h!.h!r/~, ;11J ~>ri~iD;J/. ~m1p c>pt:r;J (wntten and produced by the students of ROSP 252/FTT275/ILS275 undea the darecllon of Elena Mangione-Lora and Kevin Barry) 

For non-Spanish speakers too! 
(All members of the audience will have a plot summary rn Enghsh) 
Tickets $5 at the door Friday 4/22 @ 7:30 Satu•·day 4/23 @ 2:30 y 7:30 Sunday 4/24 @ 2:30 Carey Auditorium in the Hesburgh Library 

By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 
With the Big East Championship meet two weeks away, the Notre Dame women's track team can quite literally see the finish line. 
The main concern now is get­ting there as fast as possible. 
After sending a group of ath­letes to the highly competitive Mt. S/\C relays last weekend, the Irish will spend this week­end in Champaign, Ill. at the . University of Illinois for the explained his team's strategy. 

"They [athletes staying home this weekend] are qualified all the way to NCAA's, so we proba­bly won't have them run again until conference," Connelly said.. 
The off week also gives the runners a chance to recover from last weekend's intense competition. 
"!\ weeknnd like we had in CaJil'ornia Ilast weekend I takes a toll on the girls. not only with the competition, but with the travel. We were really careful with runners like Steph[anie 
Madia]. and Sunni 
iOlding[ this week.

"We won't start
Central In fact they won't Collcgiates meet. looking for teams have their first The conference until the Big hard workout until meet was very [today]." Connelly
East meet." 
much in the minds said. of the Irish coach­Sprints coach es when they Tim Connelly John Millar is made the lineup expected to
Irish distance coach 
for Saturday. Notre Dame will keep its best distance runners home this weekend, allowing them to turn their focus to the Big East meet. where the Irish will be looking to overtake indoor champion Pittsburgh. Distance coach Tim Connelly 
employ the same 
strategy. 

Sprinters such as Maryann Erigha. who won both the 100 and 200 last weekend, will be resting. 
/\s for the athletes heading to Illinois Saturday. the goals will be the same as they have been in previous weeks -hitting conference and NCAA regional qualifying times, establishing relay combinations and gaining racing experience. The Irish have posted 25 Big East qualify­ing marks to this point. ten of which also met the standard for the NC/\1\ regional. 
Tlw team will plaee a spncial focus Saturday on the middl!' distance and technical Pvents such as long jump and high jump. 
ConnPily felt that these events needed competition every week­end to stay sharp. 
lie was also excited about Stacey Cowan's return to the high jump event. The junior All­American missed the Mt. SAC meet due to a death in the fami­ly. 
Connelly also mentioned that the focus is strictly individual this weekend, and that there will be time for team competi­tion later in the season. 
"We won't start looking for teams until the Big East meet," he said. "We have to get kids qualified lirst." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edu 
Where you live can make you more popular 

*Walk to Campus *Hook up with friends, just blocks from your favorite night spots *Bronze yourself at our pool *Remodled Apartments *Lease with 42" plasma included 
Bring this ad in to  Toll Free  
receive  1-866-395-4201  
one month free  www.aimco.com  
*Expires 5/15/05  1710 Turtle Creek  
Restrictions apply  Drive  
South Bend, IN  

#1 Hot Spot at NO 


Graduation Weekend: Your stomach will thank you. 
After four years and over 3,027 dorm meals, you 
deserve ot least one outstanding meal that isn't 
served on a dining hall tray. 
Now taking reservations for Graduation Weekend Dinners: Thursday, friday and Saturday from 5pm to Midnight. 
www.UnionStationMishawaka.com 
steaks • chops • seafood 
......  
::: ~  ~~t.Y..u\  ~  1  M J  
L,.-,cohwgy  
4t.S.eel  ai !  

..­
-
Friday, April 22, 2005 

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'S TENNIS 

No.1 seed Irish take on St. John's 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
A lot has changed in the Big East, but the strength of the Irish remains the same. 
After taking the title last year. Notre Dame enters the Big East tournament as the top seed after finishing the regular season 16-7 and ranked No. 29. 
"The field is a little bit weaker this year, as it will be for most of the sports that play in the Big East, because Miami and Virginia Tech are out and new schools haven't come into the conference," 
coach Bobby Bayliss said. "It's not as strong a field as it has been and it cer­tainly affords us a better chance of winning than normal." 
Captain Brent D'Amico was injured in the final match of the regular sea­son. 
However. Bayliss put the senior on the 

Bayliss explained. "So you round game. have to submit it-if you have "St. John's won decisively an iffy player, say like Brent, and we will play them tomor­you have to put row at 9 a.m.," him it at his Bayliss said. "So normal spot and we pretty much t-hen you have to "It's just a matter know what we're hope he can going to face and
ofgetting out and 

play." how it kind of
getting it done." 

Eric Langen­lines up, and it's kamp was also just a matter of questionable for Bobby Bayliss getting gout and the Irish after getting it done."
Irish coach 

he was unable to travel to the University of South Florida, the tourna­ment's venue, with the team due to illness. However, Bayliss is confident that 
"If we can win the doubles point and start offin control, I think they're going to realize they have to do something special to beat us." 
Bobby Bayliss Irish coach 
Langenkamp is ready to play. 
"We had a lit­tle scare," he said. "Eric didn't make the trip with us, he was hospitalized Tuesday evening with some sort of intestinal virus that has come and gone, and he flew up separately and practiced today -he looks good, I think he's 

roster, which had to be sub­okay." 
mitted prior to the tourna­ment's start. 
"You have to turn in your lineup ahead of time and you can pull somebody out, but xou can't change the order," 

The Irish take on St. John's after riding a bye into the semifinals, as the Red Storm defeated Georgetown Thursday. Bayliss had the opportunity to watch the first-Bayliss is confi­
dent in the 
team's chances in the tournament. 
"If we can win the doubles point and start off in control, I think they're going to realize they have to do something special to beat us," he said. 
"The second key is just to play within ourselves. It's the end of the year, you're not going to invent any new shots ... I think staying with the fundamentals has worked for us all year really will be key." 
The transition to muggy Tampa was Bayliss' main con­cern, but the Irish arrived in Florida on Wednesday and managed two days of practice before today. 
"We got in yesterday," Bayliss said. "The biggest thing is just to get used to the heat, we've had two days­we're pretty acclimated." 
The Irish began defending their title at 9 a.m. today. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish women look for tourney trifecta 
By KEVIN BRENNAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will look to capture their third straight Big East Championship this weekend at Notre Dame's Warren Golf Course. 
The tournament, which kicks off Saturday morning, is in a "five count four" format. Each of the four participating teams sends five golfers, and the top four individual scores for each team in each round combine to form the team's total for the round. 
Senior Karen Lotta, juniors Katie Brophy and Suzie Hayes, sophomore Noriko Nakazaki, and freshman Jane Lee will tee it up for the top-seeded Irish . 
Third-seeded Georgetown and fourth-seeded Boston College will try to stand in the way of Notre Dame's third con­secutive title. The biggest chal­lenge for the Irish should come from second-seeded St. Johns. though. 
"St. John's will be our closest compPtition." Notre Dame head coach DPbby King said. "They have really improved this yr.ar." 
Golfstat.com ranks St. John's 125th nationally, while the Irish are rated 45th overall. The two teams met once earlier this sea­son at the Indiana Invitational on April 2-3. The Irish defeated the Red Storm by 26 strokes en route to capturing the tourna­ment championship. 
The Big East Championship dor.s not give Notrr. Damr. a chance to significantly improv1~ its chances at landing its second straight at large bid to the NCAA Central Hegional Championship. 
Since the three other tfJUrna­ment participants are all from the Eastern Hegion, the Irish will not be able to outplay any Central Region foes. 
"It's unfortunate for us that women's golf has to be in the Big East Conference." King said. "We don't have a choice there. We just have to try to keep our scoring averages low." 
Irish players have practiced hard all week in pursuit of this goal. working on the fundamen­tals of their games. King stressed that the team simply needs to continue doing the things that led to two tourna­ment championships this spring. 
"Obviously. what we are doing is working. That's what got us hen•," King said. "We arP just working on all types of thl' game -the swing. chip. pitch and especially putting." 
The first round will kick off Saturday morning at 8 a.m. at 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 

ClU14e ~ IU?ced4 ~· 
q. oJ An ~odd... 
wedcguaJ~ 
12.-5 

**ALSO... COME BY LAFORTUNE BOX OFFICE STARTING FRIDAY MORNING TO GET YOUR TICKET TO IRISHPALOOZAI THIS FREE TICKET SECURES YOU A SPOT IN LEGENDS FOR GREAT 

food, entertainment, games and prizes 

MUSIC, FREE FOOD AND FUN I
be one of the first to buy "The Shirt"

t:/Uo.... 
Student discount of $11 for Friday purchase only 

~·~·~·JooM,~ai81
Campus and local community invited! 

the~·~ liJ·~ tolclun!
-
/;ue jooJ•I;ue ~· ~~.21+ 
brou htto ou b the student union board. sub.nd.edu 


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------, 
Friday, April 22, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 23 
with it." 'receiver forced turnovers, turn­Mean Girls had trouble making us," Murphy said. No. 3 Jack's Shorts 21, No. 14 ing them into several fast break shots in the windy South Bend No. 9 nalnlng Day 21, No. 8
Bookstore 
continued from page 28 
gd out and run a little morn," 
l.'unk said. 'That's how we like to 
play 1wnry ganw." 
Kilroy earrit~d We Get Wet oiTensivt~ly. eonsistt~ntly nailing his shots from tlw IH'rinwtPr. Funk and Corrwtw addPd inside scoring to bury Anarchy 91). 
No. 6 CoCoa Butter 21, No. 11 
Anthony Travel 14 
CoCoa Butter dnfmttt~d a short­handPd Anthony Travel Thursday night thanks to the scoring duo of Hon Dokns and Bobby Brown. 
Anthony Travel captain Pat Leonard went down at the vnry bt~ginning of tlw game aftpr l)('ing knockPd to tlw concrete and injuring his lwad. Without I.Ponard, Anthony Travel was forcPd to play with fiJUr nwn for tlw rPst of the night. Leonard is tltP managing editor of The Obserwr. 
Tlw ganw was dominated by tlw inside battle between Dokes and f'ornwr Irish basketball star llarold Swanigan. The two big mPn banged inside throughout Llw ganw and tradPd baskets for lnuch of' Llw contt~sl. 
In tlw end. Dokns and CoCoa Buttl'r won out. helped in large part by thP orw-man advantage. 
"Some people wen~ complain­ing about J>okes' physical play inside and how tlw ganw got a littiP rough. but wt~ think he was just bringing Gaziantepspor-style basketball to the Stall$," onlook­ers John Meiser and Michael l;n·nch collectively stated. "We don't think Swanigan minded. lie just had a little trouble dealing Blue Collar Bailers 16 
The game between third-seed­ed Jack's Shorts and Blue Collar Bailers remained close f'or most of tho contest. With the game tied at 14, though, Jack's Shorts went on a huge run to nnd the game. 
Led by big man Dan Parziale, Jack's Shorts turned up its defen­sive intensity and completdy pre­vented Blue Collar Bailers from scoring inside during the second half'. 
Tom Witherspoon stole the show offensively for Jack's Shorts. The guard hit several key shots from the outside down the stretch. 
Bookstore Commissioner Chris Murphy attributed Jack's Shorts' victory to the team's tournament expnrience. 
'They've played together for a couple of years," Murphy said. "They have the experience of playing deep into Bookstore. They just have good team chem­istry." 
No. 5 Looking for a Sponsor at the Moment 21, No. 12 
Linebacker Lounge 13 
In an extremely physical game, Looking for a Sponsor at the Monwn t downed Linebacker Lounge 21-13 Thursday night. 
Much of' the contest was played inside the paint. with Looking for a Sponsor at the Moment's Jerome Collins and Jason Mays taking on Linebacker Lounge's Gary Godsey. 
Collins in particular grabbed countless rebounds and consis­tently scored with an array of inside moves. 
Hhema McKnight was a differ­ence maker for Looking for a Sponsor at the Moment. The Irish points. 
Spectator Hyan Curley was 
amazed by the game's physical 
nature. 
"it was one of the tougher 
games I've seen," Curley said. 
"There was not a lot of finesse 
play. I was surprised at how 
tough it was for each team to 
score." 
No. 1 U Got a Bad Draw 21, No. 
16 Mean Girls 10 
When you get a bad draw. any­
thing less than your best just 
doesn't cut it. Just ask the 16th­
seeded Mean Girls. 
Dominating the boards and 
capitalizing on their size advan­
tage, No. 1 U Got a Bad Draw 
propelled its way into the Elite 
Eight with a 21-10 win over 
Mean Girls. , "They were a great team and 
we needed to play our best, 
which we didn't," said Mean 
Girls' star Mike Ortiz. "We just 
didn't shoot well, so we dug our­
selves in a hole early." 
Lacking its opponent's size, 
Mean Girls tried to take advan­
tage of its speed by using quick 
transitions and fast breaks down 
the court. 
The strategy worked well in 
the beginning, and the game 
began 2-2. 
"They're a really good team," 
said U Got a Bad Draw's 
C:hinedum "God's Gift" Ndukwe 
of' his opponents. "We had to 
work on getting back in our zone, 
playing at our own tempo." 
With adjustments on defense 
and accurate shooting, U Got a 
Bad Draw went into halftime up 
11-5, and opened the second half 
with a big run to make the game 
17-7. 

evening and the team struggled against the 2-3 zone and Ndukwc's extraordinary ability to read passes and make steals. 
Dan Stevenson also had a big game, dominating at the post position. 
"lie always does a phenomenal job playing physical down low," Ndukwe said. 
Ortiz is happy with how his team did, and believes that tho well-balanced attack of lJ Cot a Bad Draw will be diflic.ult to beat. 
"They'll go f'ar into the tourna­ment," he said. 
No. 4 State Theater 21, No. 13 
Hannah's Storm 14 
Even with the wind, Chris Murphy and Hich Whitney used their solid outside shooting to take the Sweet 16 by storm. 
Taking an early lead after hit­ting a couple three-point shots in beginning of the first half, No. 4 State Theater went on to triumph over No. 13 Hannah's Sturm 21­14. 
State Theater held an 11-6 lead at halftime, but Hannah's Storm put up a valiant light and kept themselves in contention. 
Losing 18-9, Marti lnglesby and Co. of llannah's Storm used their tough defense and outside shooting to move within five, making the score 19-14. 
In the end, however, State Theater proved to be too much and now the team is looking !'or­ward to a good matchup tonight against Looking For a Sponsor at the Moment. 
The teams met two years ago, with State Theater coming out on top. 
"If we're shooting well from the outside, not many teams can stop Pudgy's Chicken 16 
In a hard-fought, physical game, Training Day gave Pudgy's Chicken quite a workout. 
The only official upset of' the evening, No. 9 Training Day defeated No. 8 Pudgy's Chicken 21-16. 
Pudgy's Chickt~n jumped ahead in the f'irst f'nw minutes, but Training Day carne back to lead 11-8 at halftinw. 
Playing MBA studnnL<> and spn­cial gut~st Carlyle lloliday, Training Day started the second half' strong, extnnding their lnad to 14-9, and then continued to dominate. 
"We wore them down in the sncond half' with our youth and athleticism," said Training Day's Brandon Burke. 
Missed foul shoL'i provod to bP lethal for Pudgy's Chicken when the physical nature of the game sent players repeatedly to the line, but they only managed to make one of' their shol'i. 
For its part, Training Day is happy to move on to the Elite Eight. but does not have much time to bask in the upset. 
"It was a pretty tough game today and we have an even hard­er one tomorrow, playing the No. 1 seed," Burke said. "We have to bt~ ready." 
No. 7 Platinum FUBU 2.0 21, No.10 HP 14 
Although no players were ava­iable for comment. Platinum FUBU 2.0 will move on and play We Get Wet in the Elite Eight of' this year's tournament. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu and Annie Brusky at abrusky@nd.edu 
Honoring Women ofNotre Dame 
--·-----~"·""'"·-----..,,,,,,,.,., . .,.,.,.,.,,,,.,,.,.,.,,.,.,•,·,·,•,•,•,•,•,•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•.•••••••••••""""''''"''"""'""""'""""-· --···"'"'"""""'''•,,•,·.•.•.•.w-·•-·----­
The Women in Soelol Service ond Health are pleased to honor Heather Rakoczy and Sister Susan Bruno for their outstanding contributions to the community and the inspiration with whfch they have enhanced so many lives. Here are their stories: 
.r;;;a~-=;;;;;;;;;·;..;;·;-~·-····--·-................................................ 
Heather Rqk9.~4¥ 
N.aminat,,d by: Kai~yn Roo1iotd, Li7J.Y Shawe!!, Brit!n}' Heirictl, Laura Kelly, Katie Kinnllf, ApMI F!oms, Rebecca ChO'f. Courtr.ey Jianas, Chrh>tina Vci(!SQUez, Kearn C01~3lin, and Erin Bucholz 
Having earned aBaroelcr of Arts degree in PhDorophy a~ Tlmbay. 
Heal~ Rakoczy gradu3b:!d with hcnot$ f:rom the UntvetSltf ·Of Nolte Dame In 
' t9!J3 wnh odegree in PMo:so;.lhy emf Th~y. She received fuJI..tui!JOI'l ' Legacy SchclafShip to a1rend V~rbil! Oi·~inily School and agrallt ~l r~­
nitoo cl wor~nq lor amere just I.IDd humane society, Whi!$ln divinity sei'!OO~ Ms. Rakoczy served a~ t:c~h achaplain in ahespltal and as aIctalpaslot to an irmer-cily parish, aseM:e for which she e<Jrned llonors dis~nctkm ill freld educ~on. Ms. R.ati:oczy rompletro he> Master at Divinity in 199/, Ms. Ra­koczy spent ~ve )<ears in Nash'i'ille, Tennessee. w01'klng \Yxlh the Domestic 
I 
jViolence mo~l ~ an as lin educator to1;10urt-ordM'ild perpelralorn in local prisom aml in a nonilfofihlltema­' live soo\elldnq program and as ac<Junsalor to victims thm~ 1M YWCA DomEISOC Violence Shel~er. ltl1998, Ms. !Ra~oay returned lo Noire Oa100 ~-!Wclcr of Pangborn Hall•ro she hilS team taught Theol~y and Ministy ·classes ;md tr.as been adi~-e in grouP~> 300 r>~<>-Jrams a!JSC!Ciatoo with r~. d.ass, gander. and sexual orientation. 1n MatCh of 2(},'\4, Ms, RakOv"ZY was trrvitcd to serve as the foul'lding director of tOO GRC in ahslf-tirr:.e appointnumt concwrtent witi'\ her se•..enth and M#l ye-ar of sef\llc& as Rectcr or Pangborn Hall. !n Jll}y of 2005, Ms. Rakoczy wBI ~ oor1tintre her sel\•ic.e 1o the universil:r ~ iull-time Director mlhe Goodnr Rclalioos Center. 
·Heather has passionate!~' served tile wornen Qf P8ngbom H<JJI ~s ti'le:ir reclorfor it'll! past 8 ~ara. Jn ttr.ut period of time, fi-catllcr nas snapco P:m@om's ldentit~· as a women's hall ~n-d has (:reatelf a leg­ae'l a1 tr.adltiorm cherisr11l•d b~· lhu W<ltr~un l!l'ho llvo hare. Sho treats ilWlf}' woman •tihO llvtts here with re5P~ and encom<~r.es then) in tneif e...,de<tll(l~. Heather faithful\~· r,h;~llenge!:. the-Ymmen of PHn~om to uphold university standards while treating esch disciplinary issue ilS a !e<~rninp; e~perier.o~;e ann <til opportur..lty tor growth. Resra.ants ;.;now ttrat H!m11recr Is Willlrlg It} Mlp ttwm grow past puor decls.tt•rt-s and y,ill not ll!t p.a!!'t indi!!'crp.tion~ def•nf.' the:r mark on rh9 halt.'-P<lnl{lxlrn H<.~fl Sl;1ff 
.. lnru '''"' cb)t, Ht•utlwt fit~ twu j.,J.,. !l.,;t Ji••""'''" ,;;>tl n«Jilitt I'Hii-liiH(: d<'W:>tkon, 11>1>1 •h~ hu~ li<W~f 
fi1iktl HJ jtiW hotIt llf tltrrn <''""l'l•·lf! <'<>mmirmr:ut. rq.cuhdy ~unifki'U..I!. l'~'l'>i<~tllll thm.: t•> dow.. It i> uul i IJnu~u;sl (o>r ltt':.~lh•r I" wnrl, un l;l!(:.rd~r.,;l wo>rl. (lt ;lmm .&11'aira bu iut<:t the nip:h.t (lf (;.n th!l '1\:cck• :•·wk Ju u J'l"'''' "'"''"' llwr" w•~• ;w 1.-'uiv~r,il)' Spn":~un:.:l OtWJ.I!i~latitlll. ()k.~Hll!J: wltl1 {(~tu),,, ;,;·'"'''"-• 
H~<~tlwr ~ll'f'l'~d llf' tn Lilt' ~xtra<lrllil3aq til:>li. of t'.realiuR uu>:, ddinitt~ it!.ipla~·c-<l'lJ C'~:Utpuo ~ml &tttiu~ 
: rml. nn it< mi.-ir111. \\:,. ~:attfll11. lhiuk f.>fanW.UI~ I»Olf. d,tqen'illi! ofthi'l a~·~ril. tlllll'l U~a[Js~~ ft~kO~~}"., tor in ~imply .h..wing "1' r..r 111'1' jJJl>, ~~ ... ;,. ;:;~li··~l)•' ~ltt'i~iMiilll!, a lll(l:l'~ jllM ~alll·f!<H;< ~:Ewnu....i1y"' .., K";·!l.yu Rrtlfidtl tuu.ll.j;u,i., Sl"'P.I"'ll 
t................................. . 
Susan M. Bruno, osf 
Nomirn:rlP.d by: Krisiir'l V(lfd~Jru~. Mcugie ~A~fer·, ord l<ris~n Hen1¢t!od 

. ·. rV•'CIS b<)m ond roir.ed in Okogo, Iam the eld~ of s~ chik:hn. I afl!!nd~ 
. Chi>:ogo public g1od0 ~ocl or.::! 515.. r~ om:l Pm,~ C.ath.:-sk Hi9h Sdli:JO!. AhP.I high sdtool, Ibr.gon wor~;ir~fl for Wlncis Bell Tel~~hone, w~e in 197t. I become !hefl~Y ·woroon !efephone insiol!er in !he s:ote of Illinois.. IE:flterOO riw Sislers of S.t Fronds of t-Aor~· hrrmoOJiore, of Jolie, lllif"Qis when !·..A~ ?5 'tf!OI!l -old, Ijus.! cdebroted my 2Sth Jubiloo, 1051 !>t!mm2r. Icoroo io Nolm Dome i11 1993 ond 01n ctXnpleling mv 25th yoof in miols:tr~ atOvr j~sUniveJSily. h. Rer:tor, !treasure itJurneyir'<g wilh lhu f-flC wO!f!L'f~ of P.W. 'Jf);!)' oro lll()tl(/etfu! women, who are bright, generot.IHlnd ,.,..;J( be<.'IV~;mdiog ~., ovr W-c.vld ondChutd-1. Iem l>el!At lor ~o l)'C/~1 af lttei( li><'I.!S, 
"Sr. Susan Bruno works tirtJiesslyinservice to theconstBrrt irnp~l';€11( of lhe Notre 0.."ltne romtl'UJI"'Ity. She is an incredibleexample of too~deiship ro!Q that WOO'\er1 can p!a'yon ttwca~ oflt.eU~of Notre Datne.·!-let' fett10r and doolcatkA1 ovwthc pastfou;rteen )<earn h8'lle contributed to makl11-g Nwe Dame the comml.ill~' that it is today. Iam honored to tall her rll)' ~0'1)' friend afl<l mt tOO modeL Ican notthinko1 a ootrer e:empte ofsomeone who fiXernpft!ts lcadcfship and spirit Cll Notre Dame'sca.'flPU5., Even ln the midst ofgreat challonga Sr. Soo !las re.'ef corr~omisa'l her ~t1~ <ltNa)S {'k.mgeYel)ttling she cao dofurthe good of her&udoo~ • -Krib"ten Hem~t~d 
"'f~~~·tot'n putlitlnug bttlm<. tm~t he JlW(J<tr~•.l t<J dr:~l \,;,,h<!xh~~m~ty •.lilli.t~th ,.;t uali<ua>-nn ll>l'arly a d.'l'il)• lo-.~i\ ;UMilJ<Jt'<ltL<o: nm:t~ym•idenl~ fa'~' thNn only fot· fikip!ht:try n'tlrot:l!', tndf' mtt~<n' >'l"'l I,..'l"""' <~ nlln• uli.suudlTI>L<Jo'.}l\, Still, diC UuUjtll' [?<V>ilion ~1ll<.•w"' ":t,;lm~ h.Hiin~:t.ly ,.!,..,·~~ di¥1 i<lU!'~Ilt.!l C)ft.hr. N~m l:l.lm>r (~Immunity in an imp(>1'1a.nl ttllil di:olikngiug \•·uy. 1lx·B..'''l;! t.hnt. tbpi:tt· m;mv !"·~"'"') EO!,.~ ~1.>,. ~<I .Ill' !.::1~ had ttl l)'f,'et><'(•me itr h<:rlffi; Sr. Sue Bruun Ltll.~ rko::n w lhb dwJk-u;:1:.-·-~h:u¢<: :'i'liHt'r 
"( ba!iw~> Sis!Br n;J!Jc di:ioo {1 %1'l!lr-r.b"s il)b r~s a m<l<)r I){ d~id"'lg l:t( (Ill d 1hi$ l,k1iW!~~/s rv!lO> crvi by en;.OO!'Jg li~:Jl f·~,. P..e:<1d~nl kiS.i'it<lr\~ t;!,:. ihe>r job, cnci oo it we~. Gi1ls r:'-"'-er!dllhl\'.l<J;#l llw: o:rx.~ 1.,n; r:l~«..~~ do~'t (f) ignored, ·:x-d 1=ml::k<'Tl5 ;:bn'lgo unrwof..~;.«l. 'vVhi!,, <llh<!>( &~>.,.'!So (bf'1'; ~,-.fctv.;. &.~ Uni>A'<!'!!'~rraq"il"!!d r.JIP.s, Sis!&lr Sv.l>-')11 Bruno, beo.ll)S!<Oi ~rho~·~t~ ord good'"''Crk elhic, rr:oke sum It-o! o!: ~'IC ru!r.-; Of'-' (~!&XU!IJ in Prn;q<)(!f~lu Vl151 ... fcd!w !i<.1.~'y ord ~~'Lili-bd'r~J ol illi ~w;d::>:1!,_ V<Jhi!•) ~K•m<• l\'\$ick~m; m~ ~-~~ 1h~ m no!h"lg mo:-e but pvn. i.f.lmv.;ont from an otmffi)digw~. the-,· :b,d: !h"' vision end mol~ to S!le it os ~-hll it rcdf~ ;~ k:><ting di!<eflir>:! lr!Q!' ·...ill mob it'O:!m lx~.... pcx:>plc." •. l(t:bf~·~ 1/dd:JI\.'l!­
. .............. c............. .-............................................................__, _____ 
Women ln Social Service and Health Club would also like to e:xpress our gratitude to the following women who were nominated for this honor. They have con­tributed so much to aU our lives and to our univel"$ity-we hold them as great examples for our ambitions and for our plat:e in the t:ommunity. 
Notre Dame Law School Research Librarian, Patty Ogden-Nominated by Katherine M. Leahy Professf)r Anl Aprahamian -Nomin<~ted by Jennifer s. Maddox 
-

~------------------------------~--------------------------------------------------­
page 24 Friday, April 22, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS 
Tea01s 
CQntinued from page 28 
the offense. On the defensive side. linebackers Brandon Hoyte and Corey Mays, safety Tommy Zbikowski, and defen­sive tackle Trevor Laws will lead the group. 
The Blue team will also fea­ture kicker D.J Fitzpatrick, and all five returning offensive line­men. 
On the other sideline, the Gold team will be led by quar­terbacks Marty Mooney and David Wolke; running back Travis Thomas; receivers Chase Anastasio, Michael O'Hara, and Chris Vaughn; and tight end Marcus Freeman. 
On defense, Joe Brockington will lead the linebackers, Brandon Harris the defensive backs. and Dan Chervanick the defensive line. 
With that said, Weis threw in what he called "equalizers" to compensate for the fact that the teams were divided in such a fashion. 

"Because the Blue team has a little bit more ability than the Gold team, and a little bit more experience, what we are trying to do is make it a little fun for the Gold team and give them a chance by favoring the rules in their way," Weis said. 
The Gold team will be allowed to fake kicks, rush the quarterback, run multiple defensive sets and use other strategies in order to make the game more even, while the Blue team will be forced into a less aggressive game plan. 
Weis explained that he split the teams up accordingly in order to simulate an actual game most realistically. 
"One of the things I talked about doing was having a draft, where you just draft players one [at a] time," Weis said. 
"But then you get used to, the guys are making line calls next to each other and then all of a 

Irish coach Charlie Weis talks with a trainer on the sidelines at Tuesday's practlce:""Wels announced the rosters for the blue­gold game on Thursday. 
sudden, [there are] guys that haven't been out there playing with each other. 
"Now all of a sudden some­one's making a call ... and they have no idea what you are talk­ing about." 
Other stipulations of the game include: 
+Two-point conversions can only be used in order to win the game in the final two minutes and field goals cannot be kicked to tie the game in the final two minutes. Instead the team has to go for the first down or touchdown. 
+After every touchdown, the team that is losing at the time of the score will regain posses­sion at the 35-yard line. 
Notes: 
+Before announcing the ros­ters of Saturday's game, Weis announced that Justin Hoskins was back in practice today and has officially been reinstated by the team. 
"We had an issue that has been resolved and he was back out there today in practice," Weis said. "He's not going to be talking to you [butl he would have said we had an issue." Hoskins will not be playing in the Blue and Gold game because he has not met the NCAA rules for a minimum amount of practices this spring. 
+On Tuesday, We is announced that Tn~gg Duerson was no longer playing with the team, citing unstated personal reasons as the cause. Duerson is still enrolled at the University and there is no official word about his future status. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S TENNIS 

Irish look to dominate with a No.1 seeding 
For ninth time in 10 years, Irish lead Big East Championships 
By ANN LOUGHERY Sports Writer 
After weeks of preparing for the postseason, the No. 26 Irish are finally taking off their train­ing wheels and taking on the Big East Championship. 
For the ninth time in 10 
years, the Irish (12-9) have 
secured a No. 1 seed as the only 
nationally ranked team in the 
conference. The team's impres­
sive seeding has earned it a bye 
in the first round of the Big 
East. 
"I think the No. 1 seeding shows the tradition we have in Notre Dame tennis," coach Jay Louderback said. "I think it says a lot about the type of players we have and the schedule wn play." 
However, despitP tlwir estab­lished presence at tlw top of' thP seedings, the Irish aren't under­estimating any of their oppo­nents. 
"Everyone wants to beat Notre Dame," senior captain Sarah Jane Connelly said. "It's always hard coming in and knowing you're the team that everyone's gunning to beat." 
Fourth-seeded St. John's (8-3) will bn the first team looking to def'nat the talent-laden Irish. Notre Dame's will take on St. John's in its first match of the tournament Friday at 9 a.m. at the University of South Florida in the semifinals. 
St. John's defeated West Virginia (15-7) this morning, 4­1, after taking an early 1-0 advantage in the match follow­ing doubles. The Red Storm claimed victories at Nos. 1 and 3 doubles and secured the vic­tory after three singles matches, as tournament play dictates teams play to four points. 
After facing St. John's, Louderback expects the team's next opponent will be second­seeded Boston College. The last time the two teams met, Notre Dame shut out the Eagles, 7-0. The Irish secured wins across the board in both singles and 
doubl1~s. 
As the Irish head into Friday's meet against St. John's. they hop<' this first match of thP tournament will b1~ the start of a su1·cpssful and storied post season. 
"Wc>ve had a tough schedule all season, so I think that should help us peak," Louderback said. "We 'II be playing some good tennis this weekend." 
Contact Ann Loughery at alougher@nd.edu 


---~~--~ -~~---~ ~ 
Friday, April 22, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 25 
Akron 
continued from page 28 
Booth did not disappoint. lead­ing the Irish to a 1-0 win while turning in a magnificent com­plete ganw one-hit shutout, including 11 strikeouts and only two walks. The win moves Booth to 15-5 on the year. 
Unf'ortu nately for the Irish offense. Booth's dominating game was matched pitch for pitch by Akron's Tina McCauley. McCauley gave up only four hits for the game, but Notre Dame managed to get their hits in key spots. With two outs in the third inning, senior Megan Ciolli drove in sophomore Stephanie Brown to give the Irish their lone run of the game. The run proved to be enough, and put Notre Dame back in the win column. 
In game two, the Irish offense looked much more confident against Akron pitch­ing. Brown started the Notre Dame rally in the bottom of the second by blasting the first pitch she saw over the center­field wall for a solo homer. Junior Katie Middleton then got on with an infield single, stole second, and moved to third on a throwing error. Junior Meagan Huthrauff's HBI single brought her home and gave the Irish a 2-0 lead. 
After Booth started game two with a perfect first inning, 


R E S T A U R A N T 
Now Hiring Experienced Server Apply in Person 
211 N. Main St.. Downtown South Bend 
232--4445 
www. SiamThaiSouthBcnd .com 


-----······-·-· 
RIDAY, APRIL 22 
Softball vs. St. John's Ivy Field@ 4 &6 pm (doubleheader) *First 250 fans recl'ive a softball schedule glass sponsored by Between the Buns and Coca-Cola! "Fajitl"l Fun-Rita!* 
Baseball vs. Villanova Frank Eck Stadium @ 6:os pm *First 250 fans receive a Leprechaun stacking doll courtesy Qfl'apa John's, **One Lucky tim will will a $100 shopping spree to tlw Notre Dame Bookstore! 
Men's & Women's Soccer vs. 
Mexican National Teams 
Alumni Field@ \vomen at 6:os pm, men at 8pm "FreE:' HE:>alth Fair sponsored by St Joseph Regional Medical Center. n El"!rly anh-ing fans will receive a commemont­tive poster and a rally towel! 
~ 
f)MH? !~(C'I:\-1':0!-) ' !lt>JH,"'" ,~...Mo. 
coach Deanna Gumpf inserted Stenglein for the next three innings to keep her sharp for this weekend's Big East con­ference games. Stenglein struck out five batters before turning the ball over to Kenya Fuemmeler. who was making only her fourth appearance for the season. After facing a bases-loaded jam with no outs, Fuemmelcr answered with a strikeout and a fielder's choice, and appeared to be out of the inning. However. Fuemmelcr could not finish the inning, giving up a single to left. and two runs scored to tic the game. 
Contact Ryan Duffy at rduffy1@nd.edu 
Cooper 
continued from page 28 
Wednesday night's blast was a 
game-winner. Last night's was a 
grand slam. 
The slam was Cooper's fifth 
homer of the season. 
In the bottom of the first 
inning, the Notre Dame out­
fielder gave the Irish a 4-3 lead 
over the Valparaiso Crusaders · 
sixth RBI of the last two games 
combined. Valparaiso came 
back to score runs in the sec­
ond, third and fourth innings 
a.nd held an 8-5 lead heading 
into the bottom of the sixth. 
But Notre Dame got another 
four-run inning to take a 9-8 
lead. 
Veteran shortstop Greg Lopez drove a single through the left side to start the rally. After an Alex Nettey single, a hit-by­"pitch and a couple of walks, the Irish punched in a few runs. With the bases juiced. catcher Matt Bransfield singled -again through the left side -for the 
and winn 

The defense never let up, and the Irish won for the eighth time in nine tries and for the fifth time in a row. 
Senior lefthander Scott Bickford picked up his second win of the season. improving to 2-1. The-lefty -who pitched 
1.1 scoreless innings -now owns an amazing 11-1 strikeout to walk ratio. One night after picking up his first victory. freshman righthander Tony Langford earned his first career save for the Irish. 
SATURDAY, APRIL 23 Baseball vs. Villanova Frank Eck Stadium @ 3:05 pm 
~First 250 fans re-ct'ivc Notl'e Dame Baseball-Donate Life t-shirt 
~~~~ sponsored by the Indiana Organ Procurement Organization. 
SUNDAY, APRIL 24 A Baseball vs. Villanova 'Til; Frank Eck Stadium @ 12:05 pm *Gold Game! First 250 fans will receive a Gold Games t­shirt from South Bend Orthopaedks! *Free Krispy Kreme while supplies last! 
Softball vs. Seton Hall 
Ivy Field@ uarn &1 pm (doubleheader) 
·•·Famous Daves Will Be Served Between Games! 
~Gold Game! First 200 fans receive a Gold Gamest-shirt from 
South BE'nd Orthopaedics! 
"First :mo fans receive a pennnnt sponsored by_ 
Stephenson Marketing Concepts! 
"All-American Girl Professional Baseball League Day! Meet 
former made famous in the movie "A ofTheir Own" 
•1 
1• 
1 
l 
J 
Centerfielder Alex Nettey's hot hitting continued. The jun­ior finished 2-4 on the day, a day after going 4-6 against Purdue. 
The Irish arc now 22-15. They arc 9-5 in the month of April. Last year, they finished the month 18-6. 
Tonight at 6 p.m., the Irish shift back to Big East play to face the Villanova Wildcats (23­10-1, 7-6 Big East). Sitting at 8­4 in tlw conference, the Irish hope to jumble the standings a bit mon~ when they face the 11fth-place Wildcats in a three­game weekend series. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at 
tdorwart@nd.edu 
Offering 
aflonlable 
flying lessons 
from SouUI Uond 
Regional Airport 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used Books bought and sold 

• 
25 Categories of Books 

• 
25,000 Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

• 
Out-of-Print search service 

• 
Appraisals large and small 


I I ' 
: OPEN noon to s1x : Tuesday through Sunday : 1 027 E. Wayne : South Bend, IN 46617 
I 
232-8444 
-

-
Friday, April 22, 2005 

page 26 The Observer + SPORTS 
Soccer 
continued from page 28 
Both freshman did not play for the team last fall because Pinnick sustained a season ending neck injury before the start of the sea­son last fall and Hanks elected to play for the Under-19 team. 
"We're going to start Pinnick because she has had a good spring season and we're also looking to give Hanks time," Waldrum said. "We are hopeful the public can see those two play­ers and the rest of the group is in check [from last seasonl. But we are still adjusting to losing Tancredi and Gunna [starting defensive players to graduation]." 

Despite the obstacles the Irish currently face, they are still look­ing for an exciting matchup between two highly skilled teams. 
"We've presold 1,700 tickets so it is going to be a really good crowd. It will be a playoff atmos­phere and the intensity is going to be fantastiC," Waldrum said. "So it'll be a great opportunity for the fans to see something unique with an international flavor." 
The men's team will feature Greg Dalby, who recently shone· in international play for the United States, representing the country on the Under-20 squad. 
Contact Dan Tapetillo at jtapetil@nd.edu 

HILLARY THORNTONffhe Observer Freshman forward Amanda Cinalli battles for the ball at a game against Wisconsin Nov. 14. 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish seek redemption on road 
Notre Dame hopes to improve 1-4 streak, defeat fohns Hopkins 
By MATT PUGLISI Associate Sports Editor 

Maybe a change of scenery will help-it certainly couldn't hurt. 
After recording a disappoint­ing 1-4 mark on a five-game homestand that concluded with a 14-6 loss to No. 3 Georgetown last Sunday, Notre Dame (3-9, 1-3 Big East) travels to Baltimore, Md. to lock horns with No. 11 Johns Hopkins (9-3) Sunday afternoon at 1 p.m. 
Irish coach Tracy Coyne is looking forward to the opportu­nity to hit the road again. 
"Going to Baltimore is always a good trip," Coyne said. "There will be a lot of people there, and a lot of alumni are going to come back, so that's exciting. We've been home for a couple weeks now-I think we're well rested and ready to go." 
Including the Blue Jays, all three of the opponents left on -the Irish schedule-No. 13 Syracuse and No. 19 Ohio State round out the year -are cur­rently ranked by the Intercollegiate Women's Lacrosse Coaches Association (IWLCA). However, Coyne does­n't mind the tough schedule, currently listed as the ninth 
toughest in the nation. In fact, she prefers it. 
''I'm looking ·forward to our next three games," Coyne said. "I told the team in the locker room [after the Georgetown game] that I'd much rather be playing teams that are ranked and nationally competitive. because I think we can compete on that level and 1would like to see this team prove that they can win at that level. 
"Our next three teams are all tough opponents -teams we care about and want to beat. If we can beat someone that mat­ters, it will give us a sense of satisfaction, because we have that feeling of unfulfilled poten­tial [right now]." 
The Irish had little trouble with visiting Hoya.s in the open­ing minutes of last Sunday's game at Moose I)J:ause Stadium. Ripping six ~..wfits to Georgetown's zero and jumping out to a 1-0 advantage on a goal by midfielder Lena Zentgraf, the Irish appeared to be well on their way to giving Big East-leading Georgetown a run for its money. 
But looks can be deceiving. 
Just over a minute after Zentgraf put Notre Dame in front, Hoya Catherine Elbe knotted the contest at 1-1 and kicked off a streak of eight con­secutive Georgetown tallies, staking the Hoyas to a comfort­able 8-1 halftime lead. 
While attack Crysti Foote net­ted a hat trick in the second half alone and midfielder Kaki Orr and attack Mary McGrath chipped in with single goals, the Irish were unable to get back into the contest, eventually falling 14-8. 
"I was not happy with how the game went, I'm going to be honest about it," Coyne said. "I think that [Hoya goalie I Sarah Hobinson is a good goalie, but we were shooting right at her -we weren't placing our shots. It wasn't like they were forcing low-percPntage shots ­we were getting wide-open looks. If you're getting that wide open, you should be scor­ing." 
Sunday's game against the Irish will wrap up a busy week for the host Blue Jays -Johns Hopkins knocked off Towson 15-10 Tuesday evening and hosts No. 1 Northwestern this evening before Notre Dame comes to town. 
With the season quickly wind­ing down, thoughts turn to next year and returning the Irish to their place among the nation's lacrosse elite. 
"I think that we have a bright future," Coyne said. "I think maybe losing six starters and three All-Americans has been more difficult to replace that we anticipated ... [but I we have a lot of younger players gaining a lot of experience. We definitely know how to compete." 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

anttl r:.oe rr1eet rlgcllrl ........ 
September 3, 2005 
Heinz Field, Pittsburgh, PA 
The Notre El.ame Club of Pittsburgh is Hotel and weekend packages can be proud to host the opening game of th_e purchased through Anthony Travel. 2005 season and the final game in the Pitt­
Yf-NW,anthonytravel.com
NO rivalry~Jor now. Join •for exciting :; 
.i•···•••i•······

events th~Qygnout the 
pay w~~.k.~nd: 
·:.•.•-·-~.::.,·.:;_··.=:.·.=~..:.:_~.·-~.~i..._~j_:.•_l.·_••::===....·.:.· := ·• ·.· :.: · ·::·=====:=:==~t?r====·

.•:·:·:·;:;·:·:·:·:::·=·=·=·=· 
.friday (l~llms) • ibeip;~~llyatthe-.···• 
Saturday· (9/3/05) alu mhi:hd.edu/-wndc_pitt/ 
• 
Pirates v. Cubs at PNC Park 

• 
Tailgater at Carnegie Science Center 

• 
NO v. Pitt @Heinz Field 



Friday, April 22, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 27 
ALEC WHITE AND ERIK POWERS

JOCKULAR 

!Rejected ideas fori I "The Shirt" I .."'"... ­....................... -~-~ ; \....._,WE IS ND ..._. ..~)•••  
 r".., • .-'"Nw·-··'·"'·,.. •"--•.,,,_,~-·,··-.~ \ I \ YOU CAN'T I ........,._... , SPELL r............J '~"UNRANKED''! . WITHOUT I "NO" ~ i  

ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME 
by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
J]l@jl[H)JJR 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SEGAL 
j 
C2005 Tribune Media Serv~eea, Inc. All Rights Reserved 
RYMEC 
j
rJ r 
THUNGA 
WHAT CITY COPS 5EEK ID DO 
1 

rJ 

WITH SPEEDING MOIDI<.ISTS. TABEED 
www.jumble.com 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
rJ 

1 suggested by the above cartoon. 
Answer here: 

'l I I I J'( I I I J 
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' I Jumbles: CROAK PENCE DECADE KENNEL s Answer: When the window came down on him, he 
said it was a -"PANE" IN THE NECK 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Take a bow? 

1 Rehashes 33 Insensitive again and 
34 Fictional Gray
aga1n 37 Rigging

16 Chauvinist's supports
view 41 Hardly

17 Avenging a conclusive 
wrong 43 A as in

18 Ode's opening Archimedes 
19 Halloween 44 Start of superlative something big? 
20 Family mem. 
45 One of 300 in 

21 " Rose" the length of (song from Noah's ark ''The Music 47 ViolinistMan") Leopold
23 Relatives of carps and 
48 Here, in minnows 
Hidalgo 

24 Fruit salad fruit 49 One chewing 25 What Spanish out athletes go for 51 New Deal inits. at the Olympics 
52 Becomes 27 Assigned angry 29 Went big-game 55 Diplomatic hunting achievement 
31 Keeps out 56 Bedazzlement 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE DOWN 

1 They got back on the road in 1998 
2 Unveiling cry 
3 Leading 
4 Former cable inits. 
5 Fine French fabric 
6 Having bad marks 
7 Kicked downstairs 
8 Led on 
9 Following closely 
10 Wore a tux, maybe 
11 Pulitzer Prize category: Abbr. 
12 Line of work: Abbr. 
13 1942 Abbott and Costello movie 
14 Scatterer 
15 They are raised for all to see 
22 coffee 
24 Certain Jewish theosophy: Var. 
26 Mythical nymph 
28 Bud, to a 
botanist 
30 Sainted pope of A.D. 401·17 
WILLSHORTZ 

33 Unwillingness,  38 Dried grass  46  -Neuve  
in rare usage  twisted into  (province  
34 Suit request  ropes 39 What an  bordering Quebec)  
35 Minimal  exception  49  mots  
amount  "proves"  50 Purges  
36 Occasion for  40 Mexican  53 Sabbath talk:  
flags  blankets, in  Abbr.  
37 Sauce with a  Mexico  54 German  
kick  42 Stew holder  pronoun  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEIIRITIES IIORN ON TillS DAY: Andie MacDowell, 47; Tony Danza. 54; lggy Pop. 58; Charles Groom. 70 
Happy llirthday: lle fully prepared before you leap 11110 something you've never tried before. A power struggle is likely, and 1f you don't know your sluff. you may find yourself al a loss. Th1s can be a fabulous year. hut only 1f you put everything you've got inlo what you arc trying to accomplish. Your numb~·rs arc 8.22.29,36,38.44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Av01d any sort of emotional upset If someone is doing his or her hest 10 pressure you inlo doing something, back away. You have plenty of other choices. An opponunity to mecl someone who is good for you is apparcnl. *** TAURUS (April 20-May 20): The more involved you are loday in activilies you enjoy, the better. Love is looking positive. Starl something new, and it will open your eyes to a possibility for the future. Children may play a role in your life today.***** GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Do something to please yourself because you won't be able to please anyone around you today. A massage, a hair appointment or a short trip to a mall will spark your imagination. Don't let trivial matters get to you.** CANCER (June 21-July 22): You may like to spend time at home, but today you will do far better if you get out and do things with friends. A little romance will perk you up. You will discover some very interesting information. •••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): No matter what you are working on it will be important to finish on time. You need to prove something to yourself and to others. If you neglect the one you love, you will pay later. *** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You may have a change of heart. Love is certainly in the picture, but how you handle il will be the question. Take a look at your past relationships. and you'll know what to do. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Put your money into your residence or home comfon. Get involved in any opportunity that is compelitive or challenging. You can gain ground using your intuitive intelligence today. *** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You will have lhe discipline and the inventiveness to pull something off, far beyond anyone in your field. You will know exactly what you have to do. so don't hold back 1oday. Love can be yours. •••• SAGITTARH1S (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You may think you have everything under 
-

control but. in truth. you probably don't. Don'l be surprised if something unexpected pops up at the last minute, leaving you in a dilemma. Prepare to act fast. •• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): A short trip or attending a trade show or conference will resull in some fascinating ideas and opportunities. Love will be in a high cycle, so don't forgcl to include your partner or. 1f smglc. someone to whom you are attracled. ***** AQllARilJS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Money, health and legal concerns should all be taken care of quickly today. Make some changes to your home that will make your life less stressful. You will be lucky, so pick up a lottery ticket. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Engage in family discussions. Someone you arc close to will want to introduce you to a new friend. Relationships are looking good, so don't hold back. Doing for others will bring tremendous satisfaction. 
*** 

Birthday Baby: You have plenty of drive and determination, but you arc also outspoken and willful. You are unpredictable and tend to be attracted to the unusual or unfamiliar. 
Eu~:enin'.l" Web .vile.v: mrmndl•ice.mmforfun. eu~:eninln.l"l.mmfor confide min/ mnmlrnrion.v 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address ______________________________________ 
-

City _______ State _____ Zip______ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, April 22, 2005 
page 28 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXXIV 
~et' leaves 1Anarchy' out to dry 
No. 2 We Get Wet cruises past No. 15 Anarchy 99, 21-12 
By KEVIN BRENNAN and 
ANNIE BRUSKY 
Sports Writers 
We Get Wet's frontline once again proved too much for an opponent as the team downed Anarchy 99 21-12 Thursday night. The threesome of cap­tain Justin Funk, Jordan Cornette, and Jim Kilroy proved too much for Anarchy 99. 
The three big men con­trolled both the offensive and defensive boards for the entire game. 
Funk credited this rebound­ing edge with his team's 
see BOOKSTORE/page 23 


FOOTBALL 
Blue, Gold teatns are introduced 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
There was a clear-cut divi­sion of the rosters Thursday when Irish coach Charlie Weis announced the lineups for Saturday's Blue-Gold Game. 
For the Blue team, quarter-See Also 
back Brady Quinn; running "Returning backs Darius Home" 
Walker and 
Hashon Powers Irish Insider Neal; receivers Maurice Stovall and Rhema McKnight and tight end Anthony Fasano will lead 
see TEAMS/page 24 
ND SOCCER 

Defending NCAA cha111ps take on international opponents 
Mexican National Team and 2004 "Every year we've played them and technical and don't rely so made the memorable save on the By DAN TAPETILLO Olympic Games quarterfinalist is it has been close," Irish coach much on their athleticism like we kick and prevented a potential 2­
Sports Writer 

led by former Irish defender Randy Waldrum said. "The view do," Waldrum said. "Their ball 0 deficit in the half. 
Monica Gonzalez and includes we have [of the past for matches handling is so much better and "Offensively she'll be one of 
The defending NC.AA champion recently signed midfielder Becea and last season's loss] is that we you could get caught chasing their key players," Waldrum said. women's soccer team is set to Mendoza. recognize and respect how good throughout the game if you're not However, the Irish are also take on the Mexican Women's This contest will be the fifth Mexico has become. Both teams careful." looking to this game as an oppor­National Team in the first of a time the two teams have met in played really well last year, but A potential individual threat tunity for several rising players to doubleheader tonight at 6 p.m. at the spring, dating back to their we just didn't get the result we includes UCLA forward Iris Mora, gain experience. It will also mark Alumni field. The matehup will be first encounter in 2001. The Irish wanted." who last faced the Irish during one of the first times the public followed by the Notre Dame topped Mexico in the first three Waldrum also attributed the the national championship game. can see freshman forwards Susan men's soecer team against the matchups, but suffered a 3-2 loss different style of play in interna­Mora is"the player who drew Pinnick and Kerri llanks play for Mexiean Under-17 team at last season. tional soccer to American soccer the penalty kick against the Irish the team. approximately 7:45p.m. Tonight, Notre Dame is expect­as a challenge for the Irish. during the second half of the 
In the women's match, the ing another elose contest. "They're [Mexico] more skillful NCAA final game. Erika Bohn see SOCCER/page 26 
--BASEBALL 
Power hitter Cooper blasts grand slam, secures 9-8 win 
By TOM DORWART Sports Writer 
Craig Cooper is starting to like left field. 
When he's not catching fly balls or stopping groundballs in the luscious green of the out­field, he's belting them -far over the left field fence. 
For the second night in a row, 
Cooper blasted a home run 
over the left field wall. 
see COOPER/page 25 


ND SOFTBALL 

Solid pitching sparks 1-0 shutout of Akron 
In Stenglein's absence, Booth steps up and throws 11 strikeouts 
By RYAN DUFFY Sports Writer 
After seeing its 19-game win streak finally end, Notre Dame decided to respond in the most logical way it knew how-start a new one. 
Behind strong pitching and clutch hitting, the Irish took both games of Thursday's doubleheader against Akron (20-21) in their return home after nine straight away games. 

After earning Big East Player of the Week honors for her dominant perform­ance last week, senior start­ing pitcher Steffany Stenglein was rested for game one, allowing junior Heather Booth to take the mound. 
see AKRON/page 25 

WOMEN'S LACROSSE. 
ND WOMEN'S TENNIS 
MEN'S TENNIS 

NO WOMEN'S GOLF 
SMC SOFTBAll 
SMC GOlF 

IU1--z: The team is looking to 

The Irish earned a 
No. 1-seeded Notre 

The Irish are looking The Belles want to Saint Mary's is aiming 
Dame will face St.

improve its 1-4 streak No. 1 seeding in the Big to capture their third end the season on a pos­impress at this week­
-s ~ 
with Sunday's game 
East Conference 
John's in the Big East 

straight Big East title. 
itive note as they take 
end's competition at
= 
~ 

Championship. 
Confere n c e

against Johns Hopkins. 
on Rockford College. 
Pine Hills. 

c:a:: 
Championship.
t;: 
page 24page 26 

page 22 
page 22 page 20 page 20 

.. . . .. . . '·, ·. 

·.1
' i 

.'' '. 
.
'' '' ' 
"----~~----~----------~ 

....... I .. 

page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 22, 2005 

PLAYERS TO WATCH 


Charlie Weis, the dedicated early riser 
The sun was just beginning to rise. 
Early Wednesday, Notre Dame's campus lay still save for a few chirping birds. The cranes on site at the construc­tion of the new Jordan Hall of Science along Juniper Hoad, normally buzzing with activity, sat motionless. 
But across the street at the 


Pat Leonard
Joyce Center, a car pulled up, 

Sports Writer 
and a man emerged. It was Charlie Weis. It was 5:38 a.m. And Weis was unlocking the doors to enter the football office for another day's work. 

There have been coaches with the same dedication. There have been coaches who did not sleep and who worked tirelessly to make a name for themselves. But right now, Weis is showing a relentless desire to make a name for Notre Dame. 
Weis emphasized upon his arrival that improvement does not happen immediately and cannot be expect­ed to take place right away. However, he is going to great meas­ures to ensure the program receives the proper support, sup­port from himself and from various members of the Notre Dame com­munity. 
Most recognizably, Weis invited alums Tim Brown, Joe Montana, found any opportunity to sell and Joe Theismann and Chris Zorich to promote and improve Notre Dame be honorary coaches during thus far, he has understood he must Saturday's Blue-Gold game. take advantage of it. 

All four accepted the invitation. Weis had received three verbal 
One would think a man with four commitments as of' Thursday morn­Super Bowl rings and a reputation ing and could have more when the as one of the top offensive minds in Blue-Gold weekend concludes. 
all of football would  Eighty junior recruits  
never stop selling himself. To an  '7 just know that I  visited campus on Feb. 27, the weekend of the  
extent, Weis never stops. He jokes often about how he hopes his championship  feel I'm just a part ofNotre Dame. I'm not Notre Dame  Notre Dame-UCLA bas­ketball game, and prospects Zach Frazer, Barry Gallup and Munir  
jewelry will attract top talent to South  myself"  Prince are already sold. Sold, also, are all of  
Bend. But the new head  Charlie Weis  the gold seats of Notre Dame Stadium to the  
coach also under­ Irish coach  Blue-Gold game.  

stands and uses the components of Notre Dame that can make the Irish foot­ball program so identifiable and successful. 
"There's a lot of rich tradition at Notre Dame that I'd like our play­ers to be a part of," the coach said. "I just know that I feel I'm just a part of Notre Dame. I'm not Notre Dame myself." 
Weis did not play a sport during his college years, but he was a stu­dent who lived in the dorms. 
That is why the coach met with students in the Joyce _Center on his first day of work. 
That is why he visited each cam­pus dorm and spoke for 45 minutes to an hour on football and on life for the first few weeks of his coach­ing tenure. 
And that is why, when Weis has Many .observers at the 
team's first spring prac­tice were not sold on the strict beginning being unscripted, when Weis made his offense run the first play from scrimmage three times. However, scripted or not, Weis had set a tone for the team, and every person on the sidelines was forced to realize it was what this program needs. 
Weis has become the leader Notre Dame needed -a visible leader whose intensity and purpose remain constant, even at 5:38 a.m. when nobody's watching. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd. edu 
9:00 a.rn. Brunch 
9:45 a.rn.-1 O:SO a.rn. Autograph Session 
I 0:00 a.rn.-1 :30 p.rn. Fan Fest 
11:30 a.rn.-12: 15 p.rn. Alun1ni Flag Football Ga1ne 
Blue-Gold Garne Kickotl* 
*Tickets free to students 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
A certain player or group of play­ers emerge from relative obscurity and perform well on the field every season. I lowever, who those play­ers are L'i always a matter of ques­tion coming into a season. 
The Irish are no different this year, as they are loaded with young talent looking to make their pres­ence known. Here are five players who could establish themselves as front line contributors this season. 
Joe Brockington (52) 
Last season, Joe Brockington was a 6-foot-2, 220-pound sopho­more looking to see some playing time behind Brandon Boyte at weak side linebacker. 
This year, Brockington is looking to bigger things. 
With Iloyte and Corey Mays the two returning senior leaders of the linebacker corps, there is a spot for a newcomer to step up and make his presence felt on Saturdays. 


Brockington should be in the mix, and Coach Weis has already noted this spring that his perform­ance in practice has been impres­sive. 
Brockington will be battling with a sizable group of young, talented linebackers -notably, Maurice Crum, Abdel Banda and Chinedum Ndukwe, who is also listed at safe­ty. 
Leo Ferrine (15) 
Leo Perrine is coming into the season as a 6-foot, 180-pound sophomore defensive back that could step into a productive role for the Irish. 
Defensive coordinator Rick Minter has said they are going to use him at safety next season, not­ing his athleticism in high school and hl'i all-around capabilities. 
"We're just taking a smooth ath­lete and throwing him in there at the safety spot," Minter said. 
Perrine's athleticism is something to be excited about. In high school, he scored five different ways as a senior, totaling 15 touchdowns en route to third team all-state honors in a state loaded with talent. 
That type of play will be crucial when Notre Dame matches up against athletic receiving corps such as Michigan and USC. 
John Carlson (89) 
When the Irish hired Weis, John Carlson immediately stepped into a unique situation. Weis has been known to use two tight end sets, and with the graduation of tight end Jared Clark, Carlson is making strides to be the second tight end along side Anthony Fasano. 
Carlson is a tremendously gifted athlete who doubled playing varsity basketball as a freshman in the 2003-04-season. lie will mostly likely be used as a blocking tight end with his size (6-foot-6, 245­pounds), but because of his athletic ability and coordination, Carlson could become a receiving threat, as well. 
Carlson has been battling with junior tight end Marcus Freeman this spring. The two should help each other improve going into next fall. 


Junior Jabbie (8) 
Junior Jabbie, a 5-foot-10, 188­pound sophomore, is another young member of the Irish second­ary who will be looking to make a name for himself this season. With Tom Zbikowski and Mike Hichardson as the leaders and returning players in the secondary, Notre Dame will look for individu­als such as Jabbie to be productive on the field. 
Jabbie should benefit from the help of Bill Lewis, Notre Dame's defensive backs coach. Lewis coached defensive backs in the NFL with Miami for the last nine years, specifically coaching Nickel backs. That type of coaching could pay huge dividends for Jabbie and the rest of the young Irish second­ary. 
As a senior in high school, Jabbie had four interceptions and scored 18 touchdowns as a running back. Jabbie graduated from the same high school as Notre Dame defen­sive captain Brandon 1-Ioyte. 
Anthony Vernaglia (4) 
Anthony Vernaglia was a highly touted recruit coming to Notre Dame in last year's freshman class. As a sophomore next season, Vernaglia should start to prove why he received such high acdama­ticms. 
Vernaglia, a 6-foot-3 220-powld safety from Anaheim Hills, Calif., was rated No. 95 on ESPN's top­100 players nation wide and No. 98 on collegefootballnews.com when Notre Dame recruited him. 
Like Perrine and Jabbie, Vernaglia should be one of the young athletes in the secondary that will need to step up in order to improve Notre Dame's difliculties against the pass last season. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Friday, April 22, 200'5 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page: 3 
THE STARTERS 
RUNNING BACK 
QUARTERBACK 

FULLBACK 

DEFENSIVE END 

DEREK DEFENSIVE TACKLE TREVOR 
DEFENSIVE END 
LANDRI
VICTOR ABIAMIRI 

Land ri started Laws is a LAWS 
The second seen the most 
defensive end time starting
JUNIOR 

SENIOR JUNIOR

defensive tackle tackle who can 

position rnmains here during the
Despite missing 
and is the only use his experi­

up in tho air, spring. None
most of spring 
returning starter ence as a Prep 

af'tnr losing Kyle have a lot of
praetice with a 
on a talented but wrestling cham­

Budinscak to nxpnrienee, but
bruised shin, 
relatively inex­pion to get lever­

graduation and this unit has
Abiarniri noods to 
perienced del'en­age against offen­

Justin Tuek to been a strength
bn a force nnxt 
sive.line. I le had sive linemen. lie 

Saturday's NFL of the Irish
snmmn as the most 
40 tackles and meorded 17 tack­

Draft. Travis even when tlw
expnrinnced 
half a sack in les and two sacks 

Leitko and Chris team has strug­
rnturning linmnan. 
2004. last season. 

Frome have gled. 



INSIDE LINEBACKER 
INSIDE LINEBACKER APACHE LINEBACKER 
BRANDON HOYTE COREY MAYS 
In this new position moved to lirwbar.ker for the Irish defense, at the beginning of'
SENIOR -CAPTAIN SENIOR 
the coaches have said spring but will sen this player will be reps both here and atlloytn will bn tlw leader Mays will join lloyte as used in pass eovor­safety.
ol' thn dnl'enso al'tnr making the other lil'th-year senior age, as well. Maurice Crum, who74 tackles last season. tho 
in tlw lin!lbacker eorps, 

Heading into the has had a good springmost or any returning play­
adding depth and size to 

Blue-Gold game, it is praetiee at lirwbacker,er. lin's also boon an aea­the unit. He hasn't broken undear who will play may also bn a possi­
dnmie All-American tlw through in his first four here. bility at Apadw
past two soasons and wi II years but has the athleti­Chinedum Ndukwe backer.
got his dranen to shine. 
dsm to he a playmaker. 
z

STRONG SAFETY REST OF THE IRISH SECONDARY 

Besides Zbikowski's aetion in all 12 of' Notre boon taking reps at corner­Ideally, tho Irish hope to starting position, the rnst of' Dame's games, induding a back, and both eould bo ablo to field a snc:ondary 
TOM ZBIKOWSKI 
JUNIOR 

the Irish secondary is very start against Southern potentially r.omplenwnt -from tlwir spring roster. 

Zbikowski  mudr up in the air.  California, is a leading can­ or perhaps even challenge  "You don't over want to  
snnmod to always  Arter boing the team's  didate  l'or  freo  saf'ety.  -senior Mike Hiehardson,  go into tho fall counting on  
lw around the ball  biggest liability in 2004 - However, he has been duLl­ who played in all 12 of last  a  noweomer to (:onrn in,"  
last snason. mak­ the pass defense ranked  longed by rising sophomore  season's games and startnd  dnl'nnsive r.oordinator Hick  
ing 70 tacklos. Ilo  11 hth of' 117 Division I  Leo  Ferrine,  who  has  four of' them at eornerbaek.  Minter said. "We nnnd  to  
is tlw only  enr­ tnams - the secondary is  impressed the eoaehi.ng  Chinodum Ndukwn, who  get settlml at certain posi­ 
tainty in a socond­ tho unit with by far the  staff' this spring. Ferrine,  has been seeing time at  tions and leave battles to  
ary  l'illnd  with  biggost question marks.  along  with  classmate  Apache backer, eould also  bn opened at other posi­ 
question marks.  JirPddie Parish, who saw  .Junior Jabbie, has also  faetor into the mix .  tions."  

page 4 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, April22, 2005 
Fatnily a 
Charlie Weis returns to his alma mater with intention 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 

Charlie Weis is constantly surrounded by reminders of his accomplishments. 
Behind his desk is a framed photo of Weis with his son and Patriots quarterback Tom Brady after the Super Bowl this year. He sometimes flashes a gaudy Super Bowl ring, one of four he has won. 
Weis entered a New England franchise under a defensive-minded coach and made sure that the offense wasn't forgotten about. 
Everyone knows Charlie Weis is a winner on the football field. 
But Charlie Weis isn't just about football. 
Weis, a father of two, one with special needs, founded Hannah & Friends with his wife to help children with autism and global delays. 
"He's really family-oriented," wife Maura Weis said. "He's not the kind of coach that's out golfing or with his buddies when he has time off, so his hobby is his family. He's working, or he's with us, one or the other." 
Charlie Weis is about football and family. 
That's why the 1978 graduate was hired in December to lead Notre Dame's football program. 
"That would in my mind represent a won­derful Notre Dame fit," athletic director Kevin White said of Weis. 
From New England to Notre Dame 

Weis was in the middle of the season as the offensive coordinator of the New England Patriots when he was contacted the "right way" by Notre Dame, which was looking for a new football coach after the Nov. 30 firing of Tyrone Willingham. 
Weis first talked to Notre Dame on a Sunday evening after a road game, and again the next day. White then asked if he could fly out to visit with Weis, who he had never personally met, but whose career he had followed throughout the years. 
"That Tuesday, they asked if they could come visit me in person, and I said yeah, but it will have to be after 11:30 at night· because that's what time I work until," Weis said. "So they came." . 
Weis and Notre Dame officials, including White, met for about two-and-a-half to three hours at a hotel in Rhode Island. 
White said he wasn't 

but not·as fanatic as him," Benenati said. "He followed all the Notre Dame sports. He was at every football game, he was at every basketball game, hockey games, baseball games." 
Despite his love of sports, Weis wasn't the most athletic guy on campus. Still, he played most intramural sports, including Bookstore Basketball and interhall softball, where he won the campus champi­
surprised with the person "Charlie is very onship, which he said he he saw. doesn't remember. 
family-oriented, as

"We had followed "He was okay [at Charlie for so long, I can't much so as anyone I've sports]," Benenati said of say that anything about met in all my years his four-year roommate Charlie surprised me at who was a groomsman in
around college athletics 
that point," White said. "I his wedding. "He's a little
within the coaching 

had read so much about more humble then he'll let Charlie, and I had talked profession. " you know. I don't know if to so many people about he was a standout, but he Charlie, there were no sur­was okay. Otherwise a
Kevin White

prises." pretty ordinary guy -very
Irish athletic director 

But Notre Dame wasn't outspoken, very opinionat­
ready for Weis -at least not yet. 
"They turned around and flew back -they weren't making a rash decision," Weis said. "They were dot­ting their I's and crossing their T's." 
Just an "ordinary guy" 
When Jim Benenati met his roommate in Planner Hall freshman year, he was a little worried. 
"I thought it could be a long year," he said. 
His roommate? New Jersey native Charlie Weis. 
"When I first met him, I'd say he was a very outspoken, opinionated guy who liked to go out and have a lot of fun," Benenati said. 
But Benenati soon realized that he and his new roommate had something in com­mon-sports. 
"Fortunately, I was a pretty big sports fan, ed, very friendly." 
Benenati used to get mad 

at Weis during the football season because he wanted to be in his seat before the players started warming up, and Benenati didn't want to get to the games that early. 
"He was always into sports, always ana­lyzing games, always watching every play," Benenati said. 
Ironically, it was Notre Dame football that attracted Weis to South Bend in the first place. When he lived in New Jersey, Weis used to watch "Notre Dame Highlights" on Sunday mornings, which was the replay of the best parts of that Saturday's game. 
"I grew up Catholic in New Jersey, so you could say, 'well, was that it?"' Weis said. "No. It was more 'Notre Dame Highlights' on Sunday that got me interested in Notre Dame." 
But once he got to Notre Dame, Weis was­n't just about sports. The speech and drama major knew most people around campus, as well, something he remembers fondly. 
"I do remember, more than anything else, having a whole bunch of friends all over campus," Weis said. 
The start of something great 
Charlie Weis was teaching English at Morristown High School in New Jersey when he learned of an opening as a fresh­man football coach. 
"He heard about me and asked if he could be interviewed for the job," said John Chironna, Morristown head football coach at the time. "I interviewed him and I was very much impressed with him. He came to work and worked diligently, and as a result, you can hook the two with what you see." 
Weis worked with Chironna from 1980­84, the first of many coaches who would show him the way. 
"lie was the first guy who really taught me about coaching," Weis said. And Chironna knew· Weis had a lot to learn. 
"Charlie was very intelligent, opinionat­ed," Chironna said. "l used to call him a Notre Dame snot because he would get me angry. We would be breaking down film and he would make a statement and the thing that would anger me is that he didn't think it out 100 percent. But, that was his one weakness he had, was that he was so smart." 
But Weis knew how to win. 
When Chironna became the athletic director, he was left without a basketball coach one season. So he asked Weis to do him a favor. 
"I said you've got to coach our basketball team," Chironna said. "So he coached the basketball team to a championship." 

Weis also coached the fencing team to winning season, and all along knew he had a special talent on his hands. 
"Charlie is a very, very intelligent Chironna said. "And I'll tell you, he's to make it big, I always said that." 
The road to success 
Mter five seasons at Morristown, Weis to coach for the University of S Carolina's Joe Morrison. It was in 
S.C. that Weis earned a master's degree education while-working as a graduate assistant position coach and assistant recruiting coordinator. 
"[Morrison] took me from the high school thought process to the college thought process," Weis said. 
But in 1989, Morrison passed away, and Weis found himself without a job. He even­tually found a head coaching position at Franklin Township High School, where he led the team to the New Jersey state championship while working in the Ne York Giants pro-personnel department. 
One year later, he was working with Giants full-time after head coach Parcells offernd him a position as the tant spncial tPams and defensive """"',.a' coach in 1990. Giants tight end M Bavaro, a 1985 Notre Dame gradu helped the Giants win the Super Bowl year. lie remembers Weis as a guy he cou relate to because of their Irish ties. 
"We're more friends than a coach-player Bavaro said. "lie was new and I was body who was on my last leg, so we really have a working relationship, we just good friends. We were both Notr Dame guys, we would sit and talk abo Notre Dame." 
Bavaro said Weis knowledge of the 
1979-84 After graduating in 1978, Weis 
1989 After South Carolina head coach
WEIS' 

begins his coaching career as an Joe Morrison dies in February assistant coach at Boonton (N.J.) 1989, Weis returns to high
COACHING 

High School in 1979 and then school, this time as a head as a 
becomes an assistant coach at coach leading Franklin Township
CAREER assis~
Morristown (N.J.) High School. (N.J.) High School to a state title. and~ 
Friday, April 22, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 5 
d football 
of leading Notre Dame back to the top of college football 
two feet." We talk all the time. So it was really weird show. Weis reached that stage as the Patriots' not to hear his voice for over two weeks. "I think it's somewhat inspiring to go back ofl'ensive coordinator from 2000 to 2004. And I knew that if anyone could get through to the place where you wont to school and 
"I think he is an absolute brilliant game it, it would be my husband, and he did." you ljved and have the opportunity to get planner," former Patriots fullbar.k and 1997 Notre Dame baek to the top," Weis said. Notre Dame graduate Mare Edwards said. The Importance of family "Now whether that matriculates or not, "It ehanged from week to week what we When Kevin White sat down with Charlie there's never any guarantee, but that's what did, what we did well, but he always had an Weis in December, he saw that famil:( was a the intent is." answer for what the defense would do." priority. In faet, it was one of the things that Despite only having been the full-time 
Wois won three Super Bowl rings with the made White think Weis would be a good lit Irish coach for a few months, Wnis has his Patriots, engineering an innovative and at Notre Dame. players excited about the future of Notre unpredictable offense, while earning the "Charlie is very family-oriented, as much Dame liJotball. respeet of his players and players all so as anyone I've met in all "I le's roal intnnso," safe­around the NFL. my years around college ty Tom Zbikowski said. "I 
"lie's very confident in what he's doing, athletics within the coaching "He's very love the way ho coachns and he knows he's good," Edwards said. profession," White said. -just making sum you'rn
confident in what 

"And that definitely shows in what he "And I found that very doing things right, and
he's doing, and he

does." appealing for a place like perfecting everything. Notre Dame." knows he's good." lie's a perfor.lionist, and Developing a talent So Weis was contacted that's the way you gotla 
Outside of his offensive schemes, Weis once again by Notre Dame, play football." 
Marc Edwards 

was known for something else -the devel­and he talked to several Irish players and assis­
former Irish fullback 

opment of Tom Brady from a sixth round committees who interviewed tant eoaches havo already draft piek out of Michigan to a two-time him. After that, Notre Dame soen what hn can do this Super Bowl Most Valuable Player. eallod him back to olfnr him the job. spring, and aro learning oxaetly why ho has 
"I think that Charlie has had a significant "llis track record of success is seeond to the reputation he does. role in Tom's development and overall strat­nobody's," White said. "Everywhere he's "To go against him and some of the things egy and some fundamentals and techniques been, Charlie Weis has been highly suecess­he likes to do, you ean son wlwrn he's got and just game management," Beliehiek said ful." that labnl lof an olTensiw genius!," defnn­in a press eonfernnr.e before the Super And so now Weis, 49, brings his family­sive line coach Jappy Olivnr said. "lin kenps Bowl. wife Maura, a son Charlie who will be you on your toes. It's hard to get a beat on 
Under the tutnlage of Weis, Brady was a entering the seventh grade, and a spocial Coach Weis, which is great on our side two-time Pro Bowl selection and won needs daughter, Hannah -to the Notre because we feel after going against him that numerous player of the year awards. lin is Dame family. he's going to be hard to stop." the first quarterback to start and win three "It's a really exciting time for us, and it's And if Weis has it the way he wants, lw Super Bowls before the age of 28. great," Maura Weis said. "It's everything we won't be stopped anytimo soon. 
"I Ie sets the tone for every meeting, every ever thought it would be." "I would really like to bo here at least 10 practice, and he has since the day I got And Weis is happy because his family is years," Weis said. "And somotime aftnr here," Brady said before the Super Bowl. happy. Charlie graduates I from Notre Danwl. I'll be But with Brady and Weis it wasn't always "Probably one of the reasons Notre Dame ready to ride into the sunset. But I'm hoping just about football. was such a good lit for me," he said, "is that by the time I leave, the Notre Damn because I love my family so mueh." fans, the alum, anyone who has a posilivn 
A close call light on Notre Dame will be able to look at is one of thn things that makes thtl coach In 2002, Weis weighed more than 300 Back where he started me and say we're glad we hired that guy." spm:ial. pounds -a weight he knew was a prob­It's been 27 years since Charlie Weis sat 
"lin's a football genk," Bavaro said. "The lem, especially since his father died at 56 in the student section waiting for warm-ups Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at guy loves football, much more than I do, due to a second heart attack. So that June, to start. Now he is the one running the hvanhoeg@nd.edu and you really have to study the game. And Weis decided to have gastric bypass surgery a guy who loves football, that's what he to help him control his weight and his life. thrives on, nspncially a ~-,ruy like Charlie, for "I was on a yo-yo diet for about 15 years, somn reason, he has an affection for it. Most where I would yo-yo over 300 pounds, guys don't put that ell'ort into it; they just under 300 pounds, over 300 pounds," Weis try to get away with the bare minimum. He said. "At the time I had the gastric bypass, I keeps delving deeper and deeper looking was well over 300 pounds, and I felt that I for dill'ernnt ways -he's never satisfied, was headed toward a heart attack." 
that's for sure, he's always Weis said he owed it to his family to stay eoming up with something." alive as long as he could, and he thought 
This desire for more led the surgery was the only way to do so, even Weis to New England, where though his family was vehemently opposed. he coached tight ends, run­"To all my little victories in life and my ning backs and wide circle of successes in life, I had reached a receivers from 1993-96 frustration point where I just didn't think bef(Jrn going to the New York the yo-yo diet was the way continue to live a .Jets, whern Pareells was the long life," Weis said . !wad eoac h and Bill However, complications from the surgery Beliehiek was the assistant arose, and what was supposed to be an !wad coach. overnight slay in the hospital turned into 
coach Weis said each step along much worse, as Weis suffered internal the way he IIHtrned morn bleeding from the surgery and was in a and morn about the ganw of eoma for two weeks. 
foothall, orw that he had r.oaehed for 20 That's when Tom Brady came into Weis' y•~ars at that point. family, and becamo what Weis called him 
"I didn't always know mon~ football than last woek-his "seeond son." I Bavaro!." Wnis said. "Wlwn I first started "I In was eoming Saturday morning just so coaching high school I thought I knew he didn't have to listen to me get on him for Pvnrything about football. and I was hum­not coming to son me," Weis said. "But hh•d hy how much Chironna krww. Tlwn I when ho got thoro I was in intonsivo care in wPnl to South Carolina, I had bPnn eocu:hing bad shapo. So what he did, he aetually for high srhool liw a whil1~. thought I krww a lot the rwxt 4H hours hung out with my wife, and was humbh·d by what Morrison knew. boeausn it was tour.h-and-go the whole Tlwn wlwn I wpnt to tlw {iiants. I was dou­time, until reinforcements could get in to bly humbled by Parcells. help out becauso tho last thing we expoetnd 
"You kenp on g«~t.ting humblnd. So even was something bad happening." though you'rn growing, you realize lhn guys For Charlie's wife, Maura, it was tough to you're working for know a lot morn about see hor husband sull'cr. the ganw than you do, and I think they "It was a really hard period," she said. wen~ all good teachers. They would teach "Especially because he's such a strong indi­nw and bring me along, and finally gel you vidual -he's one of the strongest people I to a stage where you can stand on your own know, physically and mentally really tough. 
a break from coach Bill 1993-96 Weis moves with Parcells to the 1997-99 Staying with Parcells, Weis 2000-05 Weis follows Bill Belichick to 
Weis spendf? three years New England Patriots, where goes to the New York Jets and New England and runs the one he gains more experience on eventually gets his first profes­offense for five seasons, even­assistant and offense, coaching tight ends, sional coordinator job in 1998. tually gaining attention for s~ t(ilams coach running backs and wide developing future two-time coaching running backs. receivers. Super Bowl MVP Tom Brady. 
' 
' 
·' 


page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, April 22, 2005 
Coaching staff has varying 
Western Pa. native always has been fond of the Irish 

By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
He may no.t have attended Notre Dame, but John Latina hac; always had a special place for the school in hie; heart. 
The offensive line coach is a native of 
western Penn-sylva­nia and grew up surrounded by every­thing Irish. 
"I grew up in west­
e r n Latina
Pennsyl­vania, an hour north of Pittsburgh, big Notre Dame fan ba.'ie," he said. "Growing up as a kid, it's one of those schools that you're just enamored with-I loved it. It's been deep-rooted." 
Latina graduated from Virginia Tech in 1981, where he started for four years on the ofl'ensive line. After he graduated, he joined the coaching staff there and also spent a year as an assistant at Pittsburgh before being named offensive line coach at Temple. 
In 1989, Latina joined the staU' at Kansas State as the offensive line coach. He also worked as the running game coordinator, but left in 1994 to work with Oemson. 
Latina's last six years were spent at Ole Miss, where he worked under then-head coach David Cutcliffe. Cutcliffe was named the assistant head coach for offense and the quarterbacks coach on coach Charlie Weic;' staff at Notre Dame. 

The off-season and transition to life at Notre Dame has been a busy time for Latina and his new co-workers. 
"It's been fun," Latina said. "Anytime you go into.:a new place, new environment, there's a lot of things. you have to do, it's been long hours but it's been fun too. It's been a great experience." 
Aside from getting to know the players, Latina has had a chance to build relationships with other staff members. 
"Coaching is somewhat of a fra­ternity," he said. "I obviously knew David Cutcliffe and worked for him but I didn't know the rest of the staff. But everybody on our staff, I know people who know them very well. Great friends of mine have worked with Bernie Parmalee or Rick Minter or so forth. So you have a tendency to gel as a staff a lot quicker than people think." 
With a new staff in place and a number of veterans returning on the oftfmsive line, Latina is ready to rebuild the Irish football pro­gram with Weis. 
"!Given his] expertise and what he's accomplished in his career as an ommsive coordinator, I was excited about learning that offense and about being a part of a new beginning at Notre Dame," Latina said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
Oliver leaves South Carolina, is now 'starting from scratch' 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
After losing star defensive end Justin Tuck, the Irish will need something special on the defensive line this year. 
Luckily, coach Jerome ".J appy" Oliver, a Michigan native, h a s returned to the Midwest after a s t i n t under Lou Holtz at South Carolina to work with Victor Abiamiri and the rest of the Irish linemen. 
"Notre Dame picked me," the 1978 Purdue graduate and for­mer Boilermaker wide receiver said. "It's just a great opportu­nity to have the chance." 
This fall, Oliver was in his second year with Holtz at South Carolina as the defensive line coach. 
"I get a call from Coach Weis and it took me totally by sur­prise, it really did," Oliver said. "So obviously he did a little homework on myself and some of the other coaches and thought I would be a good fit here. 
"And with my background, the places I've been .. . they kind of chose me. It was a blessing." 
Oliver began his coaching career in 1978 at Davidson 


(Mich.) High School, where he worked with the defensive line and wide receivers. 
He then worked as an assis­tant at Purdue, Eastern Michigan, Navy, Northeastern, Grand Valley State, Western Illinois and Vanderbilt before settling at the Air Force Academy from 1995-2002. 
In 2003, he began working with the Gamecocks, who fin­ished 6-5 last season. He began a new era with Notre Dame this winter, working to transition the football program and prepare for a difficult fall schedule. 
"Everything's been challeng­ing because you're talking about a new staff, new organi­zation," he said. "Just imple­menting Coach [Weis'J proce­dures, how he wants to go about handling recruiting, the weight program, just getting ready for spring . . . it's been a challenge." 
Though Oliver watched some old film to get a feel for his new players, he plans to focus on the future. 
Abiamiri will return for the Irish next year, but there is the difficult task of adjusting the players to new coaching styles and dealing with the loss of ends Tuck and Kyle Budinseak. 
"We've really been starting from scratch -everything's been a challenge," Oliver said. "That challenge, I can see, will continue throughout the spring and throughout the summer." 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 
QB expert coached Mannings to No. 1 pick 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
Having Charlie Weis as a head coach already has given Irish quarterback Brady Quinn a noticeable advantage in under­standing the signal-caller posi­
tion and the team's n e w offense. 
So Quinn can only imagine what David Cutciiffe will add. 

Cutcliffe, Cutcliffe 
N o t r e Dame's new assistant head coach of offense and quarter­
backs coach, is currently recov­ering from a March 9 triple­bypass surgery to remove blockage revealed in a routine stress exam. In the meantime, Weis is keeping Cutcliffe updat­ed on the progress this spring. 

"We send him tapes [of prac­tice] from each week that he gets to watch because it kind of keeps him in the mix," Weis said. "Hather than him feeling like he's not part of it, it makes him feel like he's part ofit." 
Once Cuteliffe fully recovers, he will return to South Bend from his home in Mississippi to provide expertise in the position that will prove vital to the sue­cess of Notre Dame's season come the fall of 2005. 
A head coach for six seasons at the University of Mississippi (1999-2004), Cutcliffe guided the Rebels to a 44-29 record. 
Prior to his stint with the Rebels, Cutcliffe spent 17 sea­sons on the Tennessee staff, beginning a trend of developing high quality college-level talent into NFL-ealiber players. 
Cutcliffe has coached eight players who became first-round NFL draft picks, including Ole Miss quarterback Eli Manning (New York Giants) and Ole Miss running back Deuce McAllister (New Orleans Saints). 
At Tennessee, Cutcliffe was the mentor when Eli's brother Peyton Manning set 42 records and became the SEC's all-time leading passer. Cutcliffe also coached future NFL quarter­backs Tee Martin and Heath Shuler.As offensive coordinator at Tennessee from 1993-98). Cutcliffe's unit led the SEC in offense three times. 
Weis spoke with Cuteliffe Tuesday morning and said the assistant coach was in good spirits. 
"His workouts -his rehabs -have now been extended," Weis said. "Each thing that was one minute at one time is now five to ten minutes, and he felt good that his stamina has been much better. And he said he's ... felt better now for over a week." 
Cutcliffe could not be reached for comment. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 
Haywood returns to learn offense from Weis 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Michael Haywood didn't know if he should take the job. I Ie was the running backs coach and recruit­ing coordinator at Texas, working for a program that was 21-4 dur­
ing the past two seasons and boasting some of the fmest facilities in the nation. So when Charlie Weis offered him the position of 

offensive eoor-Haywood 
dinator and running backs coach at Notre Dame, Haywood phoned Kevin 
Faulk -a New England Patriots running back who Haywood had coached at LSU -for advice. 
"He told me you couldn't learn to be an offensive coordinator under a better guy," Haywood, a former Irish defensive back, said. 

"From the quality of person [Weis] is, from the family man he is, from the quality of coach he is ... [Faulk said] I think you should go and take the job." 
Haywood listened to the advice, deciding to pack his bags and move back to South Bend. 
He lettered at flanker during his freshman year at Notre Dame in 1982 and suited up for 13 starts at cornerback from 1984-86. He started his coaching career as a graduate assistant at Minnesota in 1988. Haywood then made short stints at Army, Ohio State and Ball State before landing a job as running backs coach at LSU in 1995. 
Haywood was a senior at Notre Dame in 1986, preparing for a game in the locker room against Alabama, when then-Irish coach Lou Holtz led Haywood and his teammates through a pre-game mental exercise. 
"[Holtz] had us go through this whole visualization," Haywood said. "During that l drove to a school, I went to a stadium and I was getting out of my car in a coat and tie with a briefcase in my hand. At the end of the day, I was standing behind a desk with a T­shirt and a whistle and a pair of shorts." 
When he opened his eyes he had tears rolling down his face. "That was when I first thought I wanted to coach," Haywood said. 
That game against Alabama turned out to be the last game he would ever play, as he blew out his knee during the 28-10 loss to the then-No. 2 Crimson Tide. 
On Sept. 3, Haywood will lead the Irish against Pittsburgh ­almost 19 years to the day he decided to become a football coach. For him, the chance is lit­erally a dream come true. 
"When .the opportunity came, I felt like it was time for me to come back home," Haywood said. "What a great opportunity to bring back the glory days at the University of Notre Dame." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
Parmalee's playing career influences style 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Bernie Parmalee earned a spot on the Miami Dolphins ros­ter in 1992 as an undrafted running back out of Ball State. Nine years later he retired with 1,959 rushing yards and 1,306 receiv­ing yards under his belt. So when the Notre Dame tight ends coach talkS to his players, they can't help but listen. 
"His experience helps us so much because he knows what we're going through as play­ers," Irish tight end John Carlson said. "He doesn't see things just as a coach but he sees things through a player's perspective." 
Finishing his professional playing days in 2001, Parmalee 
. 
. . 


spent the next three years as an assistant coach with the Dolphins. He served as assistant special teams coach in 2002 and 2003 then moved up to tight ends coach in 2004 before being hired by Notre Dame. 
During his time with Miami, Parmalee worked alongside current Irish defensive backs coach Bill Lewis. He also played under Notre Dame defensive coordinator Rick Minter when Minter held the same position while Parmalee played at Ball State. 
Parmalee is pleased to make the m<Jve to college football with a couple recognizable faces~ 
"It's always good to have guys you're familiar with," Parmalee said. 
But he is quick to point out that Irish players will not listen to him and his fellow coaches only because of their profes­sional credentials. 
"A guy is going to respect you if you know what you're talking about," Parmalee said. "lt does­n't matter if I came from the pros or not. They're just going to look at if you're a credible person and if they're going to believe what you're saying." 
As he embarks on his first season around college football since he left Ball State as the school's all-time leading rusher irt 1990, Parmalee noted the main difference he sees between the college and pro games. 
"[The biggest difference is] time constraints," he said. "In the pros you can be with the guys every day for long periods of time. You have lots of 'hands on' time. But in college you have the 20-hour rule and you have to meet all the guidelines." 
Despite the restrictions placed on his time, Parmalee is thank­ful for the opportunity to coach at a college like Notre Dame. 
"It's a great school," he said. "It's rich in tradition. everyone knows about it and it's a great opportunity to be a part of something special." 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 
hiday, April 22, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
~· ~-~==================::__::_::_:==========::--:-::-----=--=-==--=~~------=-===---~------­
-

experiences, paths to South Bend 

Former Irish defensive coordinator under Holtz returns to same post 
!'our bowl game appnarances, includ­
By ERIC RETTER 

ing tho 1997 Humanitarian Bowl Sports Writer 
championship. · Cnrtainly, Minter's deeade of head Likn his boss, Hid Minter alrnady coaching expnrinncn has helped him knows his way around town. grow as a coach. In a mu r. h l~~ s s p u b l i c i z n d hom n-"When you're a !wad coach for ten 
1: 
om in g t h a n I. h a I. of hnad coach ynars, all thn dneisions primarily rest Charlin Wnis, Notrn Dam11's nnw on your shouldnrs, so you know how dn l'nnsivn coord in a­to make ehoir.es, make decisions and tor and linPhackl'rs' havn to live by them and stand by r.oach coml's to thorn, but you also learn by having South Bnnd as a been around so many f'inn assistant rnturning mnmbnr coaches through the years as I was of tlw Irish l:ommu­around as the head coach," Minter nity, having sl'rvnd said. ''I've learned a lot from a lot of as thn dnfnnsivn other people since I've been here 

1: 
o o r di n a to r u n dn r about how to do certain things." Lou lloltz in IIJIJ2-In the same way, that experience 93, ynars wlwn tlw has helpnd him grow as a mentor Irish won bark-to-and a leader outside of football to haek Cotton Bowls and finishnd the young men with whom he works. ranknd No. 4 and No. 2, rnspnctivnly. "Helationships in sports are all 


Whnn Wnis offnrnd him a job short­about trust, showing trust in players ly aftnr being hirt!d this winter. and believing in the players, aiding Mintnr took thn opportunity to eonw them in any way possible for them to baek to what hn saw as a uniqu11 beliovo in themselves," Minter said. nnvironnHml. "I think I have sat in front of so 
"Whnn I was hnrn 11 ynars ago, many young men in tlw last 10 years Notrn l>ar111~ was a special plaen, and in tho head r.oaeh's chair from a it's a grl'at placn to work," Mintnr problem solving viewpoint that I'm said. "It's tlw quality of lifn, quality vory s;;nsitive to players' individual of J>Popln, and it's a fantastic univPr­nneds. sity and an atmosphere I like to bn Ultimately. Minter's experience ­iII." both as a eoar.h and as a member of 
Without a doubt, Minter's return is the Notre Damn community-should also dun in largn part to Wnis's inl'lu­lwlp him maximize his impar.t on his nnen and tlw optimism following his players. both on and ofT tho field. hiring. "I know what a Notre Dame kid has 
"It's l'un to bn around a guy who's l.o go through to be successful and kind of known as this ofTnnsivn guy," the demands plar.ed on his time IH' said. hnro, both in ar.adomir.s and physi­
MiuliH' s1~rvnd as the defensive cally on the field," Minter said/'You coordinator and lirwbackers' coach roally admire thn guys who r.hoose to at. South Carolina -again undnr come here and make this a part of lloltz -and lwforn that, hn was thn their life." lwad coach at Cincinnati from 11J1J4­;wo:~. whm·n hn lnd the Bnarcats to Contact Eric Retter at eretter@nd.edu 
Janella leaves Alvarez in Wisconsin to turn arou,nd Notre Dame recruiting 
to a 9-3 record and an appoaranee in the Hy BOHHY GRIFFIN Outback Bowl. Associate Sports Editor The Irish could use that type of sucr.ess fiJllowing two subpar years under Tyrone Hob faneffo came to Notre Damn with Willingham. one hoek of a pmligmo. Befilre joining Wisr.onsin, Ianello spent .Joining tlw Irish as the wide receivers six seasons as wide receivers coach at 
coach and tlw mcruiting eoordinator for Arizona. tho start of' the 2005 soason, Ianello has lannllo expects mur.h out of a talented already workod with group of Irish receivers induding Hhema 
an nstablishnd coach 
McKnight, Maurir.e Stovall, Matt Shelton in Wisconsin's Barry and Jell' Samardzija. Alvarez. With the maturation of Brady Quinn 
lanello spent the last undnr Wnis, those expectations might not 
two seasons with t.lw be hard to fulfill. Badgers, coaching "As a group, I'm really pleased )with] tight ends under whern we are mentally," lannllo said. "Wn Alvarez -tho win­are learning what to do. Now the next ningest football waeh step is learning how to do it." in Wiseonsin history. Janello Mr.Knight lnd tho Irish in 2004 with 42 
"My timn with Coach receptions for 610 yards and two tour.h­Alvan~z was gn~at, it. was a gn~at bark­downs. Shelton, coming oil' an ACL injury, ground for nw," larwllo said. "!Working was second on the tnam with 20 reeep­with Afvarnzlonfightened me t.o some l.ions for 515 yards and.six seoros. things about. coming to Notrn Damn prior lanollo spoke about improvement he's to mysnlf' coming hnrr~." sn1m this spring. 
.Just a few months into his new job. "We hav1~ a vetnran group, when you landlo has aln~ady exprnssnd how much havn a vntnran group of guys that have lw enjoys working with Notn~ I>anw coach playnd a lot then thorn are some things Charlie Weis. that hopefully come naturally," he said. 
"It's bonn a very valuable nxpnrienee," Notn~ Damn fans will have tho opportu­larwllo said. "It has bopn very positive." nity to see how well tho reeeivers are 
It was diflkult for lanello to eomparo coming along undor lanello Saturday at tlw two roarhns, as both havo unique tho Blue-Gold gamn. ­ways of' running a team. And if' the coach's success at Wisconsin 
"1\vorybody has thoir own way of' doing is any indir.ator of' what is to r.omn for things," lw said. "Both guys have had Notre Damn, the Irish have a bright inrrmlibh~ success Iin doing things I tlwir futuro. way, and we'll havo that kind of' suer.oss lwn~." Contact Bobby Griffin at 
Last snm;on, Iarwllo holpnd the Badgers rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Former Georgia Tech head coach and Dolphins assistant always respected ND 
went on to lw IH1 ad eoae h at 1·: as I 
Hy MATT PUGLISI 
Carolina, whnro hn was nanwd nation­Associate Sports Editor 
al coach of t.hn ynar in IIJIJ I, and 
Gnorgia Tnch. Prior to going to East 
For assistant defensive head coach Carolina. Lewis was tho def'nnsivo and defensive backs r.oar.h Bill Lewis, eoordinator at Coorgia f'rom 11JH 1­tho decision to return to college root­liJHH. ball al'tnr nine years as a dofnnsivo Whiln Wnis and Lnwis first. mot dur­backs coach with the Miami Dolphins ing Lewis' stint with (ioorgia -Wois was a no-brainer. 
was eoaching at South Carolina at tho 
"!There arnl two time-it wasn't until Wnis' NPw reasons why I England Patriots and Lewis' Dolphins camo back," Lewis wen~ regularly locking horns in tlw said.' "One was AFC East that tho two coachns bocanw coach lCharlie I morn familiar with each other. Wnis. The second ")The relationship I canw over tho reason was Notre last nino ynar·s," Lewis said. "Both of Damn. I was 32 us worn in tho AFC East, and wn com­years in college peted against oaeh othnr a minimumLewis
eoaching, and of two times a year. Wo devnloped a Notro Damn was always one of the few friendship as competing coac.hns, and I programs that I just had a tremendous devnlopt~d a trnnwndous admiration amount of respect for. and respect for Charlin bneausn of tho 
"The combination of Charlie r.alling offenses we had to line up against and me and asking me if I was inl.erestnd attorn pt to stop." in Notre Dame -it was a very easy Whiln tho past 39 years havn decision for me to make." brought Lnwis a wealth of oxpnrintu~o 
It wasn't just the three Super Bowl and praise, he points not to r·ings or rings on Weis' fingers that lured Lewis trophies as his most significant earem· away from the NFL. aeeomplishnwnt.s, but instead to the 
"Number one is I think he is a caring relationships lw's cultivatnd. person," Lewis said. "Coar.h Weis "I think that thn thing I pride myself earns about people. That's important in the most is having players that I've for me to know that I'm working for a worknd with eomn baek and thank nw man that cares about the people that for having worknd with them," Lewis lw's sur,~ounded by -players and said. "Most of that has eornn from col­r.oaehns. lege players that have gone on into 
Af'tnr graduating from East other earners in footbaJI and lwyond Stroudsburg State in 196:~. Lewis football. ... to have them eonw back wastod little time beginning his and thank you and see thnm going on lengthy eoaehing career, immndiatoly to better earners and !wing s'uecoss­signing on as quartnrbar.ks, receivers ful." and secondary coach at his alma If the past is any indication, don't be matnr. surprised if quito a few current Notre 
lie held assistant positions at Damn players pay Lewis a visit af'tpr Pittsburgh, Georgia Ter.h, Wake Forest their playing days arn donn. and Arkansas before getting hired as head coach at Wyoming in 1977. Lewis Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@lnd.edu 
Staff's youngest member brings experience from Central Florida 
the minute rneruiting ends, everybody's
By MATT PUGLISI focus is 'What are we going to be on 
Associate Sports Editor offense? What are we going to be on 
defense?' Spndfkally for me, 'What are Contrary to popular belief, ESPN isn't we going to bn in the kicking game?'" the only employer offering a "dream job." Prior to working at Central Florida, 
Just ask Notre Dame assistant defensive Polian spent throe years as running b;u:ks backs and special teams r.oar.h Brian coach and spedal teams r.oordinator with Polian. Bull'alo (20(>1-03). 
''I'm an Irish 
The 1997 John Carroll University gradu­Catholic from New ate is n~rtainly no stranger to thn !,'fidiron. York, so this is pretty racking up a trio of letters with the much the dream job," Division Ill Blun Streaks and earning a Pofia.n said. "The spot on the all-Ohio Athletic Confnrence r.hanen to work with squad in 19%. Craduating with a history Coaeh Weis and this degrnn, Polian wasted little timn starting staff was really excit­his coaching earner, joining Michigan Statn ing to me, and I knew I as an oflimsive graduate a<;sistant in 1997. was going to come Polian Polian switched to thn dnfnnsivn side of here and learn from the ball and gainnd his first. t<L'itn of spndal some of the best in the business." teams r.oaehing two years latnr with 
And, believe it or not., location was actu­Baylor, whern lw worknd as a dnfnnsivn ally a positive in Polian 's dncision to leave graduate assistant and speeial tnarns his position as running baeks eoach and assistant from 1999-2000. While Polian recruiting coordinator fiJr Contra! Florida and his fi~llow coaching stall' nwmb1~rs an~ to try his hand at rebuilding a mueh­only finishing up thnir first spring with l.lw malignnd Irish spndal teams unit. Irish. Polian couldn't be happim· with his 
"My family's in Indianapolis," Polian choke to don blun and gold on fall said. "It was a chanr.e to move back to Saturdays. whern my family is-a plan~ I'm eomlill't­"I havn absolut<•ly no complaints," abln with. I was living in Florida when I Polian said. "For l.lw most part. this is a took this job, and I'm too chubby and too snlf-nwtivatnd, low mainterHtncn group. pasty to be living where it's sunny and It's great. because I've b1wn in places hot." whnrn tlwy're not snlf'-mol.ivated and 
For Po!ian, the rush assodated with they're not low-maintnnanc.e. rnbuilding a program as part of a new "I like thn mnntality wn'vn smm so far in eoaching staff is old hat. tho ofl'-season. l think wn'vn lmon working 
"This is the second year that. I've been hard and want to gnt after it." on the front end of a new stall' whern it's They'll soon have thnir ehanen. not a normal off-season," Polian said. "You're at a dead sprint in recruiting, and 


Notre Dame's new coaching staff ties together through both the collegiate and professional ranks of football. 


Charlie Weis Head Coach Coached with New England Patriots and New York Jets (against Lewis and Parmalee 
in both instances) and with New York Giants. 









Asst~ Defensive Backs & Special Teams The son of Indianapolis Colts president Bill Pollan, Brian was the running backs coach and recruiting coordinator in 2004 at the University of Central Florida. He brings recruiting experience from yet another area of the country. 
Bill Lewis Asst. Head Coach (Defense)/Def. Backs Nickel package coach with Dolphins (against Weis, who was in New England and New York, and with Parmalee). 
David Cutcliffe Asst. Head Coach (Offense)/Quarterbacks Head coach at Ole Miss from 1998-2004. While Weis made Tom Brady a star quarterback in the NFL, Cutcliffe is known for pumping out quarterback talent from college, including Peyton Manning, Heath Shuler and Tee Martin at Tennessee and Eli Manning at Ole Miss. 


Bernie Parmalee Tight Ends & Special Teams Coach Coached alongside Lewis in Miami as assistant special teams, offensive assistant and tight ends coach in three seasons (2002·2004). Also played at Ball State when Minter was the team's defensive coordinator. 
Rick Minter Defensive Coordinator & Linebackers Ball State defensive coordinator while Parmalee played there. Two-year defensive coordinator at Notre Dame (92·93). Defensive coordinator under Lou Holtz at South Carolina in 2004, with Oliver as defensive line coach. 

John Latina Offensive Line Coach Offensive line coach all si.." seasons with Cutdiffe at Ole Miss; offensive coordinator the past five years. 
Michael Haywood Offensive Coordinator & Running Backs Four-year footballletterwinner at Notre Dame (1982, 84-86). 

Jappy Oliver Defensive Line Coach Defensive line coach at South Carolina under Lou Holtz last season with Minter as defensive coordinator. 
Rob Ianello Receivers Coach & Recruiting Coordinator Regarded as one of the top recruiters in the country, lanello was on-campus recruiting coordinator and recruiting coordinator for two seasons each under Wisconsin head coach Barry Alvarez, who was Notre Dame linebackers coach ( 1987), defensive coordinator (1988) and assistant head coach (1988). 


Brian Polian 
MIKE HARKINS/Observer Graphic 
, ' . 
I 








