
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 39: ISSUE 83 THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 
Students will present to Board ofTrustees 
Governrnent to offer report on issues of racism, heterosexism and sexism as a 'call to action' 
1\y AMANDA MICHAELS 
A~simnr News Editor 
In a eomplnte rnversal of approach from thnir policy­orinntnd Oetobnr rnport to the Board of Trustees, student body presidnnt Adam Istvan, 
vien president Karla Bell and ehief executive assistant Dave Baron are presenting a report lwavy in concepts and light in solutions at the BOT's meeting this afternoon. 
Called "Issues of Equality: Creating a Welcoming Environment for All, Part 1: 
The Situation," the report is a compilation of testimonials and themes gathered from recent focus groups that address the issues of racism, heterosexism and sexism at Notre Dame. 
"This part of the report doesn't necessarily make rec-

Ty firing dominates discussion 

ommendations," Baron said. "It's a call to aetion, and also labels what we're doing well." 
With the Trustees' input, they will then go baek to the focus groups for more intense discussion, and offer solutions to the problem in their April report to the BOT, Bell said. 
Istvan explainnd that the dif­ference in tactic from their first report -a shift from business to ideals -was not due to thn BOT's criticism of their SafeBus plan in October, but was necnssitated by the 
see BOT/page 6 

Leaders appeal for green shirt display 

Apparel would symbolize unified support for new report on diversity 
By KATE ANTONACCI Assistant News Editor 
In an ellilrt to show support lin· the report on diversity being presentnd to the Board ol' Trustens (BOT) this aftnrnoon, the Notre Dame student gov­ernment dedared today to be "WE AHE ND" T-shirt day. MembPrs of student govern­ment hope that students wear­ing the past season's football shirt, or any other green shirt, today will make a bold state­ment about student support for the report. 

"The initiative is a way to bring together the student body, to prove to the Board of Trustees that the issue of equal­ity on campus is important to many students," said student body viee president, Karla Bell. 
This ynar's football shirt sup­ports tho idea of rampus unity. whieh is exart.ly whal tlw st.u­dPnt govornnwnt was looking (ill' wlwn prnsonting-this n·port. 
"Tiw thnnw of this yPar·'s 'Tiw Shirt' was 'W11 an~ ND;' this is allirming that we, every studnnt across I inns ol' men. gender and sexual orientation, AHE all ND," said chin!' exneutivo assistant, Dave Baron. 
Many members ol' the studnnt govnrnnwnt belinve that stu­dents gathering around the eause of diversity will have a large impad. Success in such a campaign would prove that students are capable of responding to campus and eom­munity needs and promoting change if necessary. 
"As students, we should all 
see T-SHIRT/pagc 4 

Students and faculty address issues of race 
1\y KATIE WAGNER 
Nt·ws Writer 

Thn question of whnther Tyrone Willingham's !'iring was a black and white issue dominated the discussion of approx irna to ly :w students and faculty in the Diversity 
Wm1k edition of "Interrace." 

Studnnts' initial contribu­tions to this discussion, enti­tled "Helationships from Adversity to Acceptance," involved stories of negative interactions between Notre Dame students of different races and socioeconomic elasses, resulting in biases toward particular groups. 
"It gets a little bit seary when you keep encountering the negative things," said jun-


The Observer names next managing editor 
Observer Staff Report 
Pat l.oonard hw.; hnon hired to oversee Tlw Obsnrvor's editorial operations in 2005-0(J, incoming J·:ditor in Chief Claire Ih~iningnr announce<! Wednesday. !Ieininger also said that currnnt busi­ness manag­er Michael Flanagan will hn retained at his current position for tlw rest of thn snnwstnr. 
Leonard will serve as managing editor and his appointment is ell'ective March 14. 
As managing editor, Leonard will bn responsible for assisting 

tho nditor in duel' in ov1~rseeing The Obsorvnr's editorial depart­ments. lie also plans to oversee tedmological upgrades and writ­ing improvomenls. 
"I look lilrward to helping pro­vide tho loadership and the vision necnssary to eontinue the tradition of excellence at The Observnr." he said. 
Leonard, a junior Arneriean Studies rw~jor and Journalism, Ethics and Demoeraey minor, is currently an Associate Sports l•:ditor. lie began working at The Obsnrver as a sport.c; mportnr his frnshrnan year and has since covered various beats induding women's swimming, men's lacrosse, football and men's bas­ketball. 
Leonard is originally from Philadelphia, Penn. and lives in Dillon I I all. 
ior Kachi Okoronkwo. 
Tho rest of the discussion focused on the racial division of students that resulted from the f'i.ring of Willingham. Okoronkwo believed some focused on race rather than on the true issues behind Willingham's firing. 
"I felt like people were real­ly trying to make it a race issue so we could diminish 
see DIVERSITY/page 6 
SENATE 

Metnbers discuss BOT report 
By AMANDA MICHAELS 
A~sistant News Editor 
Discussion at Wednesday night's mooting of tlw Studnnl Senate revolvod around tlw wording of tlw soxism section of the Oflkn of the Presidt111t's report to the Board of Trustees. 
During tho podium portion of the meeting, Meghanrw Downes, managing nditor of The Observer, read and dis­tributed a letter that voicod objections to a portion of the report that used the gender or The Observer's editor-in­chiefs as an example of tho culture of soxism at Notre Dame -speeilically, that the last female editor-in-chief was 
see SENATE/page 4 


Thursday, February 3, 2005 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


W111ter 
survival kit 
When leaving for college, most moms give their children "words of advice." 
Eat the five food groups. 
Keep up with your homework. 
Get plenty of sleep. 
Have fun. 
But only a mom Dan Tapetillo from Arizona would tell her kid, "Daniel, when it snows ... I Sports Writer 
know you're going to get really excited and want to play in it. But whatever you do, don't jump in it. Your feet will get wet and you'll get sick." 
For those of you who haven't grown up with snow during the winters, this column is my advice for you -almost like a mini survival kit for getting through the harsh South Bend win­ters. 
First rule: watch out for ice. 
Last winter, I was running out the door to catch up with a friend. The next thing I knew, I completely lost my balance and hit the sidewalk full force. Ice is everywhere and you never know when it'll get you. 
Not only did I end up with several cuts and scrapes, but there was also a witness. Knowing somebody was there to see me fall was probably the worst part. And trust me, there will always be somebody there to see you wipe out. 
Second rule: stay warm at any cost. 
In order to endure the long walks from your dorm to class at DeBartolo, you must come up with a plan of action. 
If you're from North Quad, this is the way to go: 
First, use every dorm keeping you from your hall to your destination. Being from Zahm, Cavanaugh is only steps away. Not only is it warm, but sometimes I also pick up a friend on the way. 
The next building to head to is LaFortune. 
LaFortune is key; use it to your advantage. Not only can you get some breakfast, but you can also cut the distance in half. 
From there, Hayes-Healey is the next closest building. Nothing special here, but who said anything about every stop having to be scenic? 
After this, it is a straight shot to DeBartolo and you're on your own. South, West, God and Mod quaders ­get your own plan. 
Third rule: even though it is cold, enjoy it while it is lasts. My mom always says, "When life. gives you lemons, make lemonade." So go out and discover all the fun things there are to do with snow. 
There are the traditional things like making snowmen, throwing snowballs or sledding. But you also have a chance to get creative. 
One of my favorite things to do is to launch snowballs out of a "three-man water balloon launcher." You'd be sur­prised how much air you get. You can basically launch anything out of it ­snow, apples or peeps. 
The snowy quad is yours for the tak­ing. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and 
not  necessarily  those  of  The  
Observer  
Contact  Dan  Tapetillo  at  
jtapetil@nd. edu  

CORRECTION 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHERE IS YOUR FAVORITE PLACE TO STUDY ON CAMPUS AND WHY? 


Chris Garibaldi Katie Jannazo Gloria Kreitinger Eddie McCarthy Jeremy Moreno Jon Valenzuela 
freshman freshman junior sophomore sophomore senior Fisher Cavanaugh Walsh Fisher Fisher. Fisher 
"Stall number "In LaFortune "My room "Studying? "Away from 'Tm a senior. I 




,

him. study Thursday nights at Legends with $2 margaritas. , 
IN BRIEF 

Ruth Mazo Karras, from the University of Minnesota, will give a lecture on "Clerical Chastity and Medieval Masculinities" today from 5 p.m. to 6:15 in 715 Hesburgh Library. The talk is sponsored by the Medieval Institute. 
Jerome Clayton Glenn, co­founder and director of The Millennium Project, will be giv­ing the lecture "Long Range Global Challenges and Their Implications for Business" Friday from 10:30 a.m. to 12 
p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium in the Mendoza College of Business. The talk is part of the "Ten Years Hence" Lecture Series. 
Allison Truitt of Cornell University will give a lecture entitled "Dollars are for · Keeping: Economic Reforms and the Limits to State" on Friday from 11:45 a.m. to 1 p.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall. ·The lecture is sponsored by the department of anthropology. 
The film "Maria Full of Grace" will be shown on Friday at 7 p.m. and 10 in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
The Notre Dame men's hockey team will take on Nebraska­Omaha at 7:30p.m. on Friday in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
The men's and women's track teams will take part in the Meyo Invitational from 7 p.m. to 9:30 on Friday in the Loftus Sports Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu. 
SUNDAY MONDAY 



HIGH 39 LOW 30 
three.,, because there's because I like to Overrated." lots offood all be around." claustrophobic and sweaty." 

PAMELA LOCK!The Observer 

Student Dailyn Martinez signs up in South Dining Hall for a Dodgeball tournament sponsored by the classes of 2006 and 2007. 
OFFBEAT 
Woman pleads guilty to selling fake beer 
BRISBANE, Australia ­A woman pleaded guilty Wednesday to selling on eBay three nonexistent cases of Duff brand beer -the favorite of cartoon character Homer Simpson. 
Tara Edith Woodford, 28, pleaded guilty in the Mackay Magistrates Court in northern Queensland state to three charges of dishonestly gaining money by false pretenses. 
Prosecutor Gavin Burnett told the court Woodford was paid a total of 1,951 Australian dol­lars (U.S. $1,511) by three separate buyers after advertising the bogus beer on the eBay Internet auc­tion site. 
Duff is the beer brand of choice for Homer Simpson and his barfly friends in the animated 
U.S. television series The Simpsons. 
Grandmother confesses to cheating in 1957 
GYPSUM, Colo.-A high school graduate has con­fessed to cheating on an English literature test ­47 years ago. Eagle Valley High School Principal Mark Strakbein said he got a one-page, handwrit­ten letter from a 65-year­old grandmother of five who admitted she and a friend stole the answers to a Shakespeare test in the fall of 1957. 
"I know it makes no dif­ference now [after 4 7 years), except maybe this will keep some student from cheating and help them to be honest-con­science never lets you for­get -there is forgiveness with God, and I have that, but I felt I still needed to confess to the school." 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT FRIDAY SATURDAY 
a:: 
1.&.1 ::1: 
!;;: 
1.&.1 
3: 
.... 
<
(.) 





0 
..... HIGH 37 HIGH HIGH HIGH 
LOW 30 LOW LOW LOW 
21 15 
39 
26 
40 
30 

Atlanta 45 I 35 Boston 37 I 30 Chicago 40 I 28 Denver 52 I 34 Houston 58 I 39 Los Angeles 75 1 49 Minneapolis 42 129 New York 41 I 31 Philadelphia 41 I 30 Phoenix 68 I 50 Seattle 56 I 46 St. Louis 45 I 29 Tampa 71 I 50 Washington 42130 

..----------~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Thursday, February 3, 2005 The Observer + NEWS page 3 
Architecture school inaugurates a-ward 
Civic design promoter receives $25,000 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre I>arnn School of Archit11cturn has selected llnnry Hope Heed, a spoknsrnan for the eause of tradition in dvie design, as tlw inaugural n1eipient of a $25,000 award named in his honor. 
The Henry Hope Heed Award for the promotion and preservation of' classical eivie art will b!1 presented March I!J at the University Club of Chicago in conjunc­tion with the presentation of Hichard I>rinhaus Prize for Classical Architncturn. 
Quinlan Terry was annourH:nd last week as the recipient of the $100,000 Dri!llutus Prize. 
Hiehard Driehaus, the founder and chairman of I>rinhaus Capital Managemnnt in Chicago, established the Henry Hope Heed Award to recognize outstanding contributions to ttw wnlfarn of the tradition­al dty and its architecture. 
Thn award will be pre­sented annually through the Notre Damn School of Architneture, a national leader in incorporating the ideals of traditional and elassieal architeetu rn into the task of modern urban development. 
For half a century, Heed has promoted elassical tra­ditions in architecture and its alliod arts by educating the public about the impor­tance of grandeur in the design of monuments and institutional buildings. 
In 1 !)59, Heed published the popular book, "The Golden City," drawn from his experiences as a leetur­er in Yale University's Department of Urban Planning, his research on architecture and urbanism, and his walking tours of Manhattan's historic archi­tecture. During the 1960s, Heed served as the first curator of New York City parks. 
In 1968, he co-founded Classical America, an organization committed to a resurgence of the grand tra­dition in American design. Classical America joined forces with The Institute of Classical Architecture in 2004. 
Heed is the author of SfW­eral books, including "The New York Public Library: Its Architecture and Decoration" and "The U.S. Capitol: Its Lesson for Today." 




Bush eager to support Palestine 
The president hopes to help Mideast peacemaking and battle poverty 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON -Eager to help Mideast peacemaking and combat Palestinian poverty, President Bush is preparing to seek hundreds of millions of dollars to upgrade security forces and support the Palestinian economy. 
Training needs to be improved, and for peacemaking with Israel to have a chance the Palestinians need more jobs and better facilities, Bush administration officials have concluded as Secretary of State Condoleezza Hice prepares to visit the region early next week. 
Edward Abington, a former 
U.S. consul-general in Jerusalem who is a consultant to the Palestinians, estimated Wednesday that Bush and Rice were prepared to be generous in dealing with a "financial cri­sis" on the West Bank and in Gaza. 
Abington, in an interview, said $50 million that has already approved by Congress would be devoted to programs to create jobs. Up to $150 mil­lion, he said, would be sought from Congress in the current fiscal year for general assis­tance to the Palestinians, and another $75 million would come from other funds. Additionally, diplomatic sources, declining to be identi­fied, said another $100 million would be provided from United Nations relief efforts. 
Election of a new leader, Mahmoud Abbas, to succeed Yasser Arafat, who died in November, has generated sup­port from Israel and the United States. 
Egypt on Wednesday sum­moned the leaders of Israel, the Palestinians and Jordan to a summit meeting next week, and they agreed to attend. 
Rice, meanwhile, is due in Israel late Sunday after stops in Europe for talks with allied and other leaders. 
Over about 24 hours she plans to confer separately with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and with Abbas. She had no plans to attend the four­nation summit talks in Egypt. 
"In many ways, the visit itself is the message," Abington said. "The Palestinians will want to hear the details of what the 
U.S. is going to do in concrete ways to rebuild their security services and to deal with their desperate economic situation," he said. 
Bush devoted part of his State of the Union speech Wednesday night to his hopes for Mideast peacemaking. He was expected to ask Congress for $350 mil­lion for the Palestinians; $225 million of that appears to be new money. 
Rice said Monday that peace was impossible unless the Palestinians gained a state of their own that satisfies their aspirations. She also said slate-hood was "within our grasp." 
The Europeans immediately welcomed her remarks. John Bruton, h~ad of the European Commission in Washington, said Tuesday it was a very important statement. 
European leaders have been urging Bush to assume a larger role in the Arab-Israeli eonllkt. Their general view is that unless Israel yields to Palestinian demands, anti-U.S. sentiment in the Arab world will not subside. That message is bound to be conveyed to Hiee as she makes her way through European capita[<; before flying to Israel. 
Edward S. Walker, prnsident of the Middle East Institute, said, "I definitely hear some­thing new in there." 
"She thinks there are going to be benefits for the U.S. inter­ests and for the president's democracy agenda," the former 
U.S. ambassador to Egypt and Israel said in an interview. 
Heferring to the Abbas-led Palestinians, Walker said: "This is possibly going to be an even better example than Iraq in developing democracy. The Palestinians have a better shot." 
Shibley Telhami, of the University of Maryland. said, "Given there have been positive events, it is almost certain that she would want to signal this is going to be an important issue for her and for tho Un itnd States." 
T 



v SDJt:Y 

THEHE~ESWE 
THOUGH! WE  
HAD TO BE  
ND's very own Bruce  
ngsteen  
Tribute  Brew and View  
Band 10 pm  <:;ROUND HOc; DAY Midnight  
Feb  
4  

Hip Hop Nightclub 
DJ lil:fo~~g~e~medyshow@10p~\ 
All Hip Hop...AII Night 11 
1• 

page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 3, 2005 
Change Movement had close to 

high figurehead" on campus. and-greet session at 6:30 
500 students wearing their T­

"No intent of offensiveness p.m. and the actual debate at

Senate
T-shirt 
shirts on campus, McEwen­

was made including these fig­7 p.m. All tickets will have 
continued from page 1 ures," Baron said. "We're just the opportunity to give an
continued from page 1 Torrence said. 
Though student participation is 

taking an honest look at what opening statement and 
in the 1999-2000 school we are at Notre Dame. This is answer as many audience
have concern for the welfare of always a question, the student 
year. The report went on to a statistically accurate questions as time allows. The
one another, especially our peers government is confident that the 
constantly confronted with the student body will rally behind the 
speculate, using these statis­description." debate will end at 8 p.m., at 
challenges of racism, sexism, and cause. 
tics, that "[these statistics] He also emphasized that which time there will be an 
heterosexism on campus," said "I most certainly feel students 
could possibly be a reflection the entire report is about the "O.C." watch with refresh­
Steve Cartwright, Keough Hall will participate," said McEwen­
of how women often fill sup­culture of discrimination at ments provided by the 
Senator. "Now is the time to Torrence. "I think this effort has 
porting roles rather than top Notre Dame, and not a criti­Judicial Council. 
stand up for members of our potential to bring a lot of disgrun­
leadership positions." cism of an individual organi­The primary election is 
community who have been mar­tled groups together under one 
Though the letter supported zation. Monday, and students can 
.ginalized." concept -change. It will be 
the student government's Baron then offered to reme­vote online as well as in vot­
The idea initially came out of a seen as a call to administration 
effort to address the topic of dy the situation if senators ing booths that will be open 
discussion between Baron, and the board of trustees to fmish 
diversity, it took issue with felt it necessary. The majority in LaFortune from 3:30 p.m. 
Cartwright and Jelani McEwen­completely on what they set out 
the implication that The of senators who took part in to 8 p.m. 
Observer's hiring practices the subsequent discussion Anderson also told senators
Torrence, a co-founder of the to do by making Notre Dame a 
were discriminatory, and that suggested the authors of the to remind their dorm's
Sustained Dialogue program at more diverse university." 
all those positions under the report offer a letter of apolo­Judicial Board representative
Notre Dame, which encourages The BOT report focuses on 
discussion about controversial diversity of gender, race and sex­
editor-in-chief could be clas­gy to The Observer, and if to attend the hearings on 
sified as "supporting roles." necessary, make specific ref­campaign violations. Two vio­
campus issues like diversity, reli­uality on campus, and the stu­
gion and gender. dent body truly believes that stu­
"It is The Observer's belief erence to the situation during lations went without being 
"At first, we considered creat­dent support will make a differ­
that the numbers cited in the today's BOT meeting. heard because there were not 
ing a new shirt to represent the ence and will alter the history of 
report were not put in the Baron agreed to write a let­enough members at each 
proper context, or researched ter of apology, clarifying that meeting to secure quorum,
uniqueness of this report, but it Notre Dame. 
with the proper diligence, to The Observer's hiring prac­and there is a 36-hour time
was actually Dave Baron, our "In many ways, we are bring­
chief executive assistant, who ing forward issues of social jus­
accurately assess the culture tices are not deemed sexist, limit on violation accusations. 
suggested that we gather our tice and equality in this report; to 
and operations of The and recognizing the impor­Junior Trevor Gass present­
peers around a familiar theme: that end, we are attempting not 
Observer," read the letter. "It tance of those in roles other ed a video on "Challenge 
We are ND," said Cartwright. to disrespect the traditions of 
is also The Observer's belief than the editor-in-chief. The Day"-a program that brings 
The idea of having T-shirts Notre Dame, but instead to write 
that it should not have been letter from The Observer will together a diverse group of 
came from the Be About Change our own history with regard to 
selected as the report's single be distributed to Father Mark youths in an intense six-hour 
Movement, a group of African themes central to Catholic Social 
statistical example among Poorman, Vice President of discussion about issues rang­
American students on campus Teaching," said Cartwright. 
campus media for this type of Student Affairs; Bill ing from drugs and alcohol to 
who had wanted to perform a The T-shirt campaign is all part 
'under-representation,' espe­Goodyear, chair of the Board bullying and abuse. Gass pro­
similar demonstration during of the larger plan to have the 
cially considering The of Trustees Student Affairs posed that Notre Dame facili­
finals week. Wearing the same University address diversity on 
Observer's diverse leadership Committee; and the Council tate a Challenge Day next 
T-shirt will tie all students togeth­campus; and the student govern­
composition as described of Representatives. · semester, with University stu­
above." dents leading a group from
er, and will unifY groups who feel ment is hoping for success. 
displaced at the University in a "If we succeed, we will show 
In defense of the report in In other Senate news: the South Bend area schools. 
visible way, McEwen-Torrence University administration, 
open discussion later in the + Judicial Council presi­lie encouraged any of the 
said. trustees, faculty and staff that 
meeting, chief executive dent Brin Anderson interested senators to attend 
Such forms of non-verbal there are serious issues to be 
assistant Dave Baron pointed addressed election and cam­a Challenge Day in Detroit 
protests or campaigns are not addressed and that we have 
out that it also critiques stu­paign issues during her time this weekend, all expenses 
new on campus. "Gay? Fine by made a priority of caring for one 
dent government for its lack at podium. paid, to get a better feeling of 
Me" shirts, Tyrone Willingham another," said Cartwright. 
of female presidential leader­She noted that the primary how the program works. 
shirts and Martin Luther King 
ship, and indicated that the debate was tonight in the 
wristbands have all been ·very Contact Kate Antonacci at 
editor-in-chief of The area of LaFortune by the Contact Amanda Michaels at 
visible on campus. The Be About kantonac@nd.edu 
Observer is an "extremely Burger King, with a meet-amichael@nd.edu 




CF' ENCiiNEEf.;'INCi 
THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING WELCOMES EARLY ADMITTED ENGINEERING INTENTS 
Thomas Alford  John Garro  Kelly Nicholson  
Matthew Barra  Patrick George  Mark Pasquier  
Michael Batanian  Leonard Giannone  Paul Porto  
Stephanie Bendinelli  Lindsay Gilmour  Matthew Posluszny  
Christina Bourgeois  Brian Green  Daniel Rahill  
Peter Brandt  John Hanson  Eric Raver  
Jeffry Branham  Richard Helffrich  Christopher Rork  
Patrick Brewick  Amanda Hentz  Andrea Ryan  
Anne Brodfuehrer  Brian Holoyda  Brandon Sakach  
John Callahan  George Jenkins  Erica Sanchez  
Bryan Chamberlain  Sarah Keithley  David Schaller  
Maureen Clark  Michael Kelly  Douglas Schuda  
Shawn Coleman  John Kinney  Matthew Storey  
Erin Cosgray  Chad Krause  Caitlin Sullivan  
Laura Dechant  Daniel Kuzma  Patrick Sweeney  
William Donaldson  Charles Lamanna  Daniel Thaner  
Conor Donnelly  Caitlin Lambert  Jon Thibeault  
Brandon Doyle  Daniel Lambert  Sarah Trent  
Brenton Esla  Lindsay Lechner  Michelle Webb  
Joseph fernando  Nathaniel Loyd  Phillip Whelan  
Lauren Floccare  Michael Martin  David Wilbur  
Kevin Foley  Joseph McBrayer  Jared Zenk  
Jorge Fontes  Nathaniel Menendez  


WE HOPE TO SEE YOU IN OUR (LASS OF 2009. 








ORLD & NATION 
Thursday, f~ebruary 3, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
IRA's actions slow peace process 
J>UBI.IN, ln~land -The Irish Hepublican Army on Wednosday withdrew its oll'er to dis­arm. doopening thn dnadlor.k in a Northnrn lndand pPae<~ pron~ss hobblod by thn IHt\'s alleg~•d roblwry of a Bnlfast bank. 
In a hard-linn statement, thn Iltt\ stornly rpjedPd British and Irish govnrnnwnt criti­cisms that tlw outlawed group was committing major rrinws and primarily to blanw for tho worsening impasse. But tho IRA did pledge to stirk to its I<JIJ7 <~nasn-lirP. 
The lilA had oll'lm~d in l>ne1H11bnr to disarm fully as part of a wider deal to revive a Catholir-l'rotnstant administration in Northern lndand involving Sinn Fnin. tlw IHA-Iinkod party that rPprnsnnts most of tlw north's C:atholirs. Tlw potential dnal litiled when tho IHA n~fused to Jll'rmit photos to bo taken of its disarnutrrwnt, a key l'rotnstant demand. 
Iran to continue nuclear program 
TI·:IIBAN. Iran -Iran will rwver serap its nui'!Par program, and talks with Huropnans are intPrHII~d to prot.Prl tlw country's nudear arhi<wenHHrts, not negotiate an end to tlwm, an Iranian ollkial said WI'Clnesday. 
ThP rl'nrarks by Ali Agha Mohammadi, spokPsnran of Iran's powerful Supromn National Senrrity Counril. an~ tlw latest in a hardening of his 1~01rntry's stanen amid ongo­ing talks with 1\uropean rwgotiators. They also rellerl Tehran's possible frustration atthn lack of progri'SS. 
1\uropP is pmssing Iran for concessions on its nuriPar program. whi<~h tlw United States· daims is ainwd at produdng atomk wnapons. In ex<·.hange for nudear guarantnns, the 1\uroJwans are oll'l~ring Iran tedmologieal and linandal support and talks on a trade deal. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
13 indicted in crime spree 
BAI:I'IMOHE -Thirteen people have benn indietml f!1r drug trallkking, including a man who appnars in a DVD -along with NBA star Carmnlo Anthony -aimed at scaring rnsidents from tnlling poliee about drug deal­nrs, authoritins said Wndnnsday. 
Thn drug operation, known as the "Hice Organization," sold more than 1,600 kilo­grams of eucaine and heroin over a 10-year pnriod in Baltimore, federal proseeutor Allen Loucks said. 
The indictment also alleges thn group con­ducted contract murders to protect their trade. The government is seeking forfeiture of $27 million in criminal proceeds, including homes and luxury vehides. 
Plane runs into NJ warehouse 
TETEHBOHO, N.J.-A eorporatn jet skiddnd oil' a runway Wndnesday on takeoll' and hur­tled aeross a six-lane highway during the morning rush hour, smashing into two cars and punching through the wall of a ware­housn. About 20 pnople wnre taken to the hos­pital, induding two injured in their ears. 
Crew mmnbnrs and passengers walked or crawlml from thn burning wreckage after the crash at Teterboro Airport, a small airport about 12 miles from midtown Manhattan that caters to exeeutive jets. 
"I think everybody at this point is extremely lucky and fortunatn," said acting Gov. Hiehard 
J. Codny. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Granite kills construction worker 
VAI.PAHAISO-Morn than two tons of gran­itn fnll on a worker at a construction site in northwestern Indiana, killing him, authorities said. 
Damon Daniels, 24, of Michigan City was pronounced dead at thn site Tuesday after­noon by emergeney workers, said Portnr County Sherill"s Sgt. Tim Emmons. 
l'ort1~r County Coronnr Hoger Kleist said an autopsy will bn perfornwd Wednesday, but the liknly cause of death was suffocation from the wnight of the live. I,000-pound granite slabs. 
CoMPILED FROM T1-·n OBSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 5 

Bush calls for Social Security overhaul 
President's plan would reduce guaranteed benefits for younger Americans 
Associated Press 

WAS II I N G T 0 N­
President Bush challengnd 
a hesitant Congress on 
Wndnesd~!Y .to ."str~mgt~en and savn Soeral Securrty, saying the nation's costliest soda! program was headnd for bankruptcy unlnss. changed. Bush's plan would cut guaranteed retirement benefits for younger Americans but would not af'foet cheeks l'or people now 55 and older. Bush, in his State of tlw Union address, pledged to 
work with Congn~ss ."to lind tlw most nlli~et.ivn eombina­tion of rP!'orms," illthough 
hn has rulnd out some renwdies such as raising Social Security taxes. 
I>Pmocrats said that Bush's proposal to divert Social Security rovenues into private invnstmnnt aec~ounts was dangerous and that tlwn~ wero better ways to l'ix tho program, tlw 70-year-old cnnterpieen of' the New Deal. 
H1~publicans stood and ehnered whnn Bush urged lawmaknrs to approve "vol­untary personal retirement aecounts." Demoerats sat in stony silence, underscoring the partisan divide on an issun likely to dominate the year in Congress. Democrats also groaned and grumbled when Bush said Social Security would require drastically higher taxes, massive new borrow­ing or severe benefit cuts unless the system is changed. 
Bush's speech spanned problems at home and abroad, but it was the first State of the Union address since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks that focused most heavily on domestic issues. Despite Democrats' criticism, he offered no hint of a timetable for a troop with­drawal from Iraq. 
lle pledged to confront regimes that promote ter­ror and pursue weapons of mass destruction, and sin­gled out Syria and Iran. Heturning to his inaugural 

President Bush speaks at his State of the Union Address. Social Security reform 
was a major topic of interest during the speech. 
address' theme of spread­ing democraey, Bush hailed the success of Sunday's elections in Iraq. . 
"And the victory of free­dom in Iraq will strengthen a new ally in the war on terror, inspire democracy reformers from Damascus to Tehran, bring more hope and progress to a troubled region," he said. 
Bush also promised to push forward for Mideast peace, including $350 mil­lion in aid to the Palestinians. 
"The goal of' two demo­cratic states, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace, is within reach, and Ameriea will help them aehieve that goal," the president said. 
With more than 1,400 Americans killed in Iraq and the United States spending more than $1 bil­lion a week on thn war, Bush urged Congress to support his request for an additional $80 billion. "During this time of war, we must continue to sup­port our military and give them the tools for victory," he said. 
While key allies like Germany and France opposed the war, Bush said his administration "will eontinue to build the coali­tions that will defeat the dangers of our time." 
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, delivering the Democratic response, chal­lenged Bush on Iraq. 

"We all know that the United States cannot stay in Iraq indefinitely and eontin­ue to be viewed as an occu­pying force," she said. "Neither should we slip out the back door, falsely dedaring victory but leav­ing chaos.... We have never heard a clear plan from this administration for· ending our presence in Iraq." 
Emboldened by his re­election, Bush called on lawmakers to move on sev­eral controversial fronts, including libnralizing the nation's immigration laws, imposing limits on medical malpractice lawsuits, sim­plifying taxes and nxtnnd­ing the life of tho tax euts enacted during his first term. 
CUBA 




Castro alleges Bush is 'deranged' 
Associated Press 

HAVANA -In his first public 
remarks since the United States 
dubbed Cuba an outpost of tyranny, 
Fidel Castro called President Bush 
"deranged" and belittled recent 
improvements in relations between 
Cuba and Europe. 

In a televised address late Tuesday, 
Castro maintained his trademark go­
it-alone attitude, saying his commu­
nist-run island is a paradise that is 
doing fine without the help of the 
United States or Europe. 
Cuba "doesn't need the United 
States. It doesn't need Europe," he 
said. "What a wonderful thing to be able to say, that [Cuba] doesn't need any assistance -it's learned to live without it." 
Speaking at an international peda­gogy conference in Havana, Castro referred only briefly to comments by Secretary of State Condoleezza Hice, who last month identified Cuba, Myanmar, Belarus and Zimbabwe as "outposts of tyranny" that would require dose U.S. attention. He said if the mission of Bush's administration was to crush tyranny, "our mission is to dnfeat empires." 
The Cuban leader, wearing his olive green military uniform, linked Bush's government to corruption and tor­ture. He said he dosely watched the U.S. leader's inauguration speech Jan. 20 and saw "the face of a dnranged person." 
"If only it were just the face," he said to roars of applause by educators from 52 countries at the conference. 
The Cuban leadnr also warned against a potential invasion by the United States, a theme often repeated in public addresses. Washington has said repeatedly it has no plans to attack tho Caribbean island. 
"If they make the mistake of attack­ing this eountry, well Mr. Bush, or whoever will be there, I recommend to you it would be better if you use 50 nuclear bombs to exterminate all of us," he said. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 3, 2005 
















diversity, but 

about race and people." --------------------------------------. 
the high Istvan, Bell and
everything that 

demand that Baron said they saw overwhelms affects·it. " discrimination and them, often inclusion as the forcing students major concerns of
Adam Istvan

interested in the student body,
student body president and felt it was theirclasses or Social 
Coneerns responsibility to Seminars that make the BOT deal with race on to long wait­aware of the full extent of the ing lists. problem, since the Trustees are 
The section on heterosexism only on campus a few times a deals with the problems faeed year. by the gay, lesbian and bisexual "The Board of Trustees report students the report calls "invis­is the most important opportu­ible minority," including the nity the student government pressure to "hook-up" and the has to make an impact on the misunderstanding of the University," Istvan said. 
WILL OPEN AT 4PM 
Catholic stance on the issue of "Diversity is the most important homosexuality. issue on campus right now, so 
ON FEBRUARY 6TH, SUPERBOWL SUNDAY. 
DOWN HILL 
CALL 1-2924 FOR DELIVERY 

SKI TRIP 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2005 
WE ACCEPT SWISS VALLEY 
fii!tP 
DomerD&litiit'S

BUS LEAVES LIBRARY CIRCLE AT 5:00P.M. 
Cost: $40.00 Lift ticket, snowboard & transport 
ofjex~

$35.00 Lift ticket. ski •·ental & transport $25.00 Lift ticket & transport only 
RETURN BUS LEAVES SWISS VALLEY AT 10:00 P.M. BEGINNER LESSONS AVAILABLE FREE OF CHARGE 


'·=~~;·~ 

REGISTER AND PAY IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS BEGINNING JANUARY 31, 2005 


DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 3, 2005@ 5:00 P.M. 
Irish Hockey X #1 0 Track and Field 


Meyo Invitational
Fri., Feb. 4th Sat., Feb. 5th 
@7:35PM @7:05PM 

Sat., Feb. 5th
Joyce Center Fieldhouse Joyce Center Fieldhouse 
@ 2-4:30 pm

vs. vs. 
Loftus Sports Center
Nebraska -Omaha ebraska -Omah 
..... ,.....
( .... ··.. GOLD GAME! (
*First 500 fans receive *First 500 fans receive a 

r ' r ~
a schedule glass commemorative poster 

*First 100 fans receive 
*Free bowl of chili to featuring Notre Dame early arriving fans Hockey Alumni 
a Gold Games T -shirt 
E 
The final part explores the we might as well use our best perceived atmosphere of sex­opportunity to address it."
BOT 

ism that pervades Notre Dame. In an effort to encourage stu­continued from page 1 "We are a community on dents to claim what Istvan campus, but one that is sepa­called ·"authorship" of the more conceptual topic. rated by gender lines," Bell report, it was posted on the Baron, Istvan and Bell each said. The report cites. the student government's Web site worked with the focus groups inequality of treatment on Monday for all to read. and campus organizations to between men's Today is also the identify the conflicts at the root and women's official 'We Are of their individual issues -dorms, the lack of ND' day of
"Diversity is the 
racism, heterosexism and sex­resources · at Diversity Week, ism, respectively. Health Services most important and the leaders The section on racism and the issue on campus are hoping the addresses the "disconnect" Counseling Center campus wears
right now, so we
between racial groups on cam­to deal with gen­their green T­pus, specifically regarding the der-concentrated might as well use shirts in a show firing of former Irish football problems like sex­our best opportunity of support and head coach, Tyrone ual assault and solidarity for
to address it. " 
Willingham, and the lack of eating disorders their presenta­opportunities for those gen­and the preva­tion. uinely interested in bridging lence of women in Adam Istvan Istvan will not the gap. supporting roles student body president be presenting at 
"It's very important that in campus organi­today's meeting, everyone of the majority con­zations. as he has an sciously thinks about race and "There are problems that are interview with the U.S. Navy, everything that affects it. In true in all three sections of the the date of which was impossi­regards to the Willingham fir­report. There is a common ver­ble to change. However, he ing, we couldn't get a good nacular that uses insensitive expressed confidence in Baron answer of whether thflre was a language. Stall notes are chock and Bell's abilities and in the good discussion of the race full of sexist remarks. If some-strength of the report. issue," Istvan thing is bad or :'This issue is so important," said. wanted, it's called Istvan said. "It doesn't matter 
It also high­"It's very important 'gay'," Istvan said. who presents it." lights the low "The problem is
that everyone ofthe 

number of cam­that people don't Contact Amanda Michaels at
majority

pus resources realize these com­amichael@nd.edu for exploring consciously thinks ments are hurting 


Diversity 
continued from page 1 

[the firing's] impor­tance," said Okoronkwo. 
Alan Green, an employee of the Notre Dame athletic department, said that Willingham had a positive impact on so many things on this campus that people in other parts of the coun­try simply didn't under­stand. 
"It didn't seem that it was taken into considera­tion enough to affect the decision [to fire Willingham]," he said. 
Green also disapproved of the news media's cover­age of blacks' reactions to the firing. According to Gre.en, it wasn't that the black community didn't find ways to express their reasons for discontent, but that certain parts of their message were filtered out. 
"The journalists chose what to publish," said Green. 
Christy Fleming, assis­tant professional specialist in the First Year of 
Studies, agreed that peo­ple developed uninformed opinions about the blacks community's response to the firing 
"To me [the Black Alumni's statement on the firing] was stated very clearly," said Fleming. "I think people didn't get it, because they didn't want to get it." 
She also said that because Willingham was one of only five black coaches in the nation, his being fired was, by neces­sity, a race issue. 
Iris Outlaw, director of Multicultural Student Programs/Services, said that the discussion was an attempt to get people to sit back, listen, empathize and try to understand. Outlaw also said that it was interesting to see the enthusiasm of the students who bought and sold the Willingham shirts. 
"You students really are the motor, the driving force behind this institu­tion," said Outlaw. 
Contact Katie Wagner at kwagner@nd.edu 
·• ' 
THE OBSERVER 

USINESS

Thursday, February 3, 2005 page 7 
MARKET RECAP Stocks 
Dow 
10,596.79 +44.85
jones ~ 
Up: Same: 
1,091 149 

AMEX NASDAQ 
NYSE 
S&PSOO 
Down: Composite Volume: '~ 1,586,133,718 
I ,433.16 +4.77 2,075.06 +6.36 7,169.39 +23.1 X 
1,193.19 +3.7H 

NIKKEI(Tokyo) 11,407.14 0.00 FTSE IOO(London) 4,916.20 +10.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 TR SER I (QQQQ)  +0.16  +0.06  37.58  
JDS UNIPHASE CP QDSU)  -2.42  -0.05  2.02  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  +0.27  +0.07  26.46  
INTEL CP (INTC)  -0.22  -0.05  22.58  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  +0.1 I  +0.02  18.1 5  


30-YEAR BOND -0.24 -0. I I 45.81 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.1 0 +0.04 41.40 5-YEAR NOTE +0.41 +0.15 37.14 3-MONTH BILL -0.16 -0.04 24.58 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.43 46.69 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) +0.1 0 423.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) -2.88 90.93 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 03.6200 EURO 0.7679 POUND 0.5302 CANADIAN$ 1.2381 
IN BRIEF 
GE won't take more orders in Iran 
.'-iTAMJ!OIW-General Eloctrie. Co., whieh has IH~ml accusnd of collncting "blood rnonny" hy doing businnss in Iran, will stop accepting any nnw orders for businnss in tho country, 1:ompany ol'fidals said Wmlnesday. 
"Because of uncertain conditions relatnd to Iran. including concerns about nHwting futurn r.ustonwr commitmnnts, wn will not accnpt any nnw ordnrs for businnss in Iran nfl'ective 1-'t~h. I," said c;ary Shnf'fer, a GE spokesman. "This moratorium on nnw orders will be rn­nvaluated as conditions rnlating to Iran c·hangn." 
Thn movn by the world's largest company by market valtw comns just days after another r.onglonwratn, llalliburton Co., announced it will wind down its opnrations in Iran. 
"Wn'rn stH~ing a turnaround hy a numbnr of 
U.S. rompanins operating in Iran," said Dan Katz, chief r.ounsel to U.S. StHl. Frank l.autPnlwrg, 1>-N.J. 
Katz said thn moves may signal an imminent ehangP in U.S. policy that had allowed foreign subsidiaries of Anwrican companins to do husinnss in Iran. 
Model awarded $15.6 million in suit 
SAN 1."1!1\NCISCO-A jury has awarded $15.6 million to a man whoso image was used for years without his pnrmission on Taster's Choien t•omH~ labels. 
HussPII Christoff. a former model from Nortlwrn California, posed fill' a two-hour Nestle photo shoot in 11JH(, but figumd it was a bust­until lw stumhiPd across his liknnnss on a cofl'ee jar whiiP shopping at a drug storn in 2002. 
"I looked at it and said, 'That's m<)!"' Christon·. said Tunsday during a news eonfernneo at his talfmt agent's oflien. 
A lngal dispute with Nestle USA ensued, dur­ing which Christoll', 5R, dnelined the company's $100,000 settlement offer, and Nestle USA turrwd down his ofl'er to settle f(lr $R.5 million. 
Last wnnk, a Los Angelos County Superior Court jury ordornd Nestle USA to pay Christoll' $15.6 million for using his likeness without his permission and profiting from it. The award indudns 5 percent of tho Glondaln-basod com­pany's profit from Tastnr's Choice sales from IIJIJ7 to 20m. 
WorldCom Settlement will wait 
Directors get break as judge disallows settlement to cornpensate conzpany's investors 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK -A unique deal in which 10 former WorldCom diroetors would pnrsonally pay $18 million of a $54 million sPttlemont to compensate invnstors over tho com­pany's plunge into bank­ruptcy will be with­drawn, plaintiff's said Wednesday. 
Nnw York State Comptroller Alan llovnsi, the load plaintiff'. announced that the plaintif'fs were pulling out of the deal aftc~r U.S. District .Judge Denise Cote on Wednesday struck down a kny com­ponent of' the agreemnnt. 
llovnsi said the settle­mont was scuttled because Cote ruled that any jury award resulting from a F11b. 28 trial could not be reduced using a formula that would have taken into account the limited f'inancns of the dimctors who seWed. 
"l"rn very disappoint­ed," llevesi said. "The settlement is being ter­minated solely because of tho potential impact on the amount other dnfen­dants might pay if the suit is sucenssful." 
Tho unusual proposed settlemnnt marked one of tho few timns that execu­tives who presided over corporate misdeeds have agreed to assume any personal financial liabili­ty for the resulting dam­age. 
llevesi said tho settle­ment had set a precedent that directors would be held accountable and represented a "red alert to directors to do the job they have to do." 
A lawyer for tho direc­tors, Paul Curnin, did not immediately return a call for comment Wednesday. 
The WorldCom director payments, whieh would have been equal to slightly more than 20 pcreent of tiHJir com­bined net worth, were to be supplemented by 

another $36 million from insurance policies cover­ing WorldCom. Some investment banks that were defendants in the case had objected to the settlement, telling Cote they would be unfairly prejudiced unless all the defendants stood trial togethnr. 
The deal had been reached about two weoks before the start of a fed­eral criminal trial against WorldCom Chief Executive Bernard Ebbers. That trial contin­ued Wednesday before another judge in federal court in Manhattan. 
Investors lost billions of dollars when it was re-vealed in 2002 that WorldCom had inflated profits by at lnast $1 I billion. 
"Hegrettably, we have no ehoieo but to tenni­nate thn settlement, as historic as it is, because we cannot take thn risk that a jury ver<fict against the investment banks might bo reduced by an amount substan­tially higher than the set­tling director's ability to pay," said Sean Coffey, a lawyer'for the plaintiffs. 
Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for the banks, said: "The bond undor­writers have no objnetion 
to  the WorldCom  dirt~e­ 
tors entering into  a  law­ 
ful  settlement  with  

investors. Tho plaintiffs 
wantod to includo a judg­ment reduction formula that we bnlitwn is dnarly unlawful. and wn are pleasnd that Judge Cote has agreed with us." 
llevesi is the lead plaintiff because as New York Statt~'s comptroller, he is the sole trustt~() or the New York State Common Hetiremont Fund. The fund provides benefits for Nnw York state employnns, includ­ing poliee and f'iref'ight­ers. 
lllwnsi t~stimated that the fund, whirh serves IJ 7 1 , 0 0 0 ptw p Ie a cr o s s the state, lost as much as 
$9  billion  as  a  dirtwt  or  
indirect  result  of  
WorldCom 's eollapsP.  


Apple's·competitors challenge iPod 
Associated Press 

I.OS ANGELES-Is music some­thing you own or something you rent? 
!low music fans answer tha.t ques­tion in coming months will help deter­minn the viability of a new slate of online music services that offer to fill portable music players with an unlim­ited number of songs for a monthly fee. 
While the music subscription approach has grown in recent years, far more music fans have opted to buy songs by the track, a business model popularized by Apple Computer Ine.'s iTunes Music Store and its hugely successful iPod portable player. 
But the release late last year of nnw copy-protection software from Microsoft Corp. may begin to change that. The software frees subscribers to move their mntcd tracks from their eomputers to certain portable musk players. 
The system works by essentially putting a timer on the tracks loaded on the player. Every time tho user eonncets the player to the PC and tho music service, the player automatical­ly cheeks whether the user's subscrip­tion is still in efl'ect. Songs stop play­ing if the subseription has lapsed. If the user doesn't regularly syneh up the player with the service, thn songs go dead as well. 
"This is potentially the first serious challenge that the iPod is going to face," said Phil Leigh, prPsidPnt of Tampa. Fla.-basnd Inside Digital Media. "What tlws11 dtwiees an~ going to be able to do is attack il'od wlwrP it's weak." 
Several online rnusie purwyors son portability as selling point that ran lure consumers to their subscription serviens. Forrester Hnsoareh projnets music subseription revenuns will more than double this year to $240 million, largely bocauso of portability. 
HnaiNetworks, MusicNow and MusicNPt, whieh distributes its serv­ice through brands like Ameriea Online and Cdigix, all have plans to launch portable subscription sPrvief~s this year or early 2006 at the latnst. 
-~--·-----------------­
Thursday, February 3, 2005 

pa~ 8 The Observer + NEWS 
Ebersol speaks about 
Soldiers testify on prison conditions 
fatal charter jet crash 
Plane ascended about 20feet before plummeting 

Associated Press 
DENVEH -A chartered jet carrying NBC Sports executive Dick Ebersol and his sons climbed 20 feet to 50 feet ofT tlw ground before it crashed at a westPrn Colorado airport in an acci­dent that killed three pPo­ple, a fedPral investigator says. 
The jet's left wing dipped after takeoff and the pilot took corrPctive action but the left wing dipped again and struck the ground,National Transportation Safety Board investigator Arnold Scott said he was told by Ebersol. 
Ebersol said it acted "like someone dropped a heavy weight on the left wing," Scott said Tuesday. Ebersol also saw "large chunks of 
AP 
slush" f1ying past the plane's window as it taxied out for takeoff. the investigator said.llis son. Charlie EbPrsol, rPralled SPPing large water droplPts. 
ThP NTSB is invPstigating wlwtlwr snow or ir1• on tlw ChallPngPr (J01 's wings may havP contributed to tlw Nov. 2 S a c c i d e n t a t M o n t r o s !' Regional AiflJort. 
Killed were Edward "Teddy" Ebersol, the 14­year-old son of Dick EbPrsol and actress Susan Saint James; pilot Luis Alberto Polanco. 50. of the Dominican Republic; and !'light attendant Warren T. Hichardson Ill, 36, of Coral Gables, Fla. 
Dick Ebersol, Charlie Ebersol. and co-pilot Eric Wicksell, 30, of Daytona Beach. Fla., were injured. 

Sgt. Java! Davis leaves the courthouse after a day of sentencing hearings In Fort Hood, Texas Wednesday. 
Davis pleaded guilty to battery and two other charges connected to the Abu Ghraib prison scandal. 
He said he saw prisoners The recording was the only
Associated Press 
being physically mistreated evidence offered by prosecu­
and sexually humiliated, but tors during the sentencing 
FORT HOOD, Texas -that he failed to help them or phase, which is scheduled to Conditions at the Abu Ghraib report the abuse, as required take at least two days. prison were so "deplorable" under military law. He also Bergrin has said he will that rats and wild dogs were admitted likely call a common sight and edible lying to an Davis to testi­food and water were scarce, Army investi­fy, and he will a witness testified Wednesday gator by "It was filthy, present video­in the penalty phase for a sol­denying his taped testimo­
with rodents, rats, wild 
i\_etors l11f0ll1 111le LJrlclOil s-tagedier who has pleaded guilty misdeeds. ny from three
dogs and trash and an
to abusing detainees. Davis also Iraqi detainees Army Maj. David Dinenna, a spoke of dan­overpopulation of who say Davis leader of Sgt. Java] Davis's gers faced by treated them 
OTHELLO
prisoners. " 
military police battalion, tes­guards at welL tified that Abu Ghraib was a Abu Ghraib, Five other by William Shakespeare bleak and volatile place for including David Dlenna soldiers have the thousands of detainees 
prisoners Army Major already plead­Friday, February 11 and Saturday, February 12 and their vastly outnumbered armed with ed guilty in the Both performances at 7:30 p.m. guards. homemade case and been 
"It was filthy, with rodents, knives. He blamed a high sentenced. Two others-Spc. Leighton Concert Hall rats, wild dogs and trash and level of stress for his wrong­Sabrina Harman and Pfc. Marie P. DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts an overpopulation of prison­ful acts. Lynndie England -still face ers," said Dinenna. There • However, under cross­trial. General Public $18.00 • Seniors/NO Faculty/Staff $16 • All Students $12 were frequent mortar attacks examination, Dinenna agreed The only case to reach trial 
Tickets available at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center ticket office. 
and prisoner flare-ups. that guards at other U.S.-run was that of Pvt. Charles 
MasterCard and Visa orders accepted. Call 631 ·2800. 
Davis, 27, a reservist from detention facilities in Iraq Graner, described as the 
The Actors residency is supported in part by the Henkels Lecture Senes. 
Roselle, N.J., pleaded guilty faced similar conditions but abuse ringleader. Graner was Tuesday to battery, derelic­didn't abuse prisoners as a convicted in January and sen­
~UNIVERSITY OF ~DE BARTOLO
tion of duty and lying to Army result. tenced to 10 years in prison. 
w NOTRE DAME ~PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
investigators as part of a deal with prosecutors on the eve of his scheduled trial. 
The former guard faces a maxim urn 6 112 years in prison for his crimes, but defense lawyer Paul Bergrin has said that the plea deal caps Davis's sentence at 18 months. 
Capt. Chuck Neill, a prose­cution spokesman, said the jury's sentence recommenda­tion will be compared to the deal offered to Davis, and the lesser sentence will be 
P ..eside:n.t:ial/ Vice P ..eside:n.t:ial
served. 
Earlier in the hearing, pros­ecutors played a tape for the nine-man Army jury in which Davis responded to questions 
Debates
from the judge on Tuesday about what he did to seven handcuffed and hooded pris­
Tb:u...sda.y, 2/3/05 at: 7:00 p.D"'.. Huddle Mart 
oners in November 2003. 
liliMeet: & G ..eet:'' begi:n.s a:t 6:30 p.D"'..
In the tape, Davis admitted he stepped on the hands and feet of detainees and that he 
Enjoy refreshments & The O.C. 
later fell with his full weight 
after the debates
on them. Davis said he knew his actions were wrong and that 
FIND OUT WHO WILL GIVE the abuse was not carried out 
-

YOU WHAT YOU WANT 
as part of an approved regi­
' 

VOICE YOUR CHOICE
men prior to interrogation, as 

'-----------------------------------­
Thursday, February 3, 2005 The Observer+ INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Pope's hospitalization extended 
No immediate alarm exists, doctors monitor possible complications 
Assnriarcd Press 
VATICAN CITY -Pope .John Paul If's doctors worn on guard for romplirations Wednesday, a day after the frail, H4-ynar-old pontifl" was hospitalized with Llw flu and lm~athing trouble. 
l'rwumonia rmnainod a poten­tially dnadly Llm~at, but tho lloly Sol' insisted Llwn~ was "no cause for alarm." Homan Catholics from Poland to tlw Philippirws prayPd fi1r his rncovnry. 
Tlw pope will he hospitalized for a few mon~ days to af'ford "many nwans to stay rnady for any complieations," said Cardinal .lavinr Lozano Barragan, head of tlw Vatican's health cam ollice. 
Thn slumping pontill' also suf'­filrs from Parkinson's diseaso and crippling hip and knee ailrllfmL'i, and his inability to hold his back up straight has left his lungs and diaphragm in a crushed position, Barragan told Associated Press "IHPvision News. 
Tests showed lhn pope's heart and respiration worn normal, and lw fi~ll wdl mwugh to parlicipatn from his bnd in a Mass n~lnbrated by his secretary. said papal spoknsman Joaquin Navarro­Valls. 
lin said .John Paul wm; running a slight liwnr and would spend "a filw morn days" for lrnalment of' rnspiratory problems at Homo's Gomnlli l'olydinie, whore he was taken by ambulaneo Tuesday night. 
"There is no cause for alarm," Navarro-Valls said. · 
Cardinal Angelo Sodano, tho Vatiean secretary of state, also played down the severity of the illness Wednesday evening. The pope was "recovering well," Sodano told private Italian TV Canale 5, adding that he expected the situation to improve in a few days. 
Still, American experts said a ease like tho pontill"s could lead to life-threatening pneumonia. "That's the complication of inflwmza that most frequently, by 
Students 
Fly Cheaper 
spring break. study abroad &more 
sample roundtrip Student Airfares from South Bend to: 
Toronto  $141  San Juan  $365  
Boston  $168  London  $368  
Denver  $168  Rio de Janeiro  $672  
San Diego  $233  Melboume  $1308  

Visit StudentUnlverse.com for cheap student airfares on major airlines to 1,000 destinations across the US and around the world. 
far, carries people oil'," said Dr. William SchafTner, an infectious diseases expert at Vanderbilt University. 
''I'm sure ovnry physician (fol­lowing news rnporL<; of tho popo's ease) is already worried that pneumonia might develop," Schaflhor said. 
Elderly men with long-standing, dHbilitating chronic disease like Parkinson's often die of pneumo­nia, which comes as "tho final straw" in a long assault by dis­oaso on tho body, said geriatrics specialist Dr. William I lull of' the University of Rochester. 
The pope's slumped posture would not only impede his breath­ing but also make it harder for him to cough normally, a roaction that in healthy people helps keep pneumonia bacteria from enter­ing the lungs, llall said. 
Pneumonia is "often very diffi­cult to treat because you have introduced bacteria that don't bnlong in tho lungs," said Dr. Michael Frnodman, head of geri­atrics at Now York University Medical C1intor. 
"You usually need multiple antibiotics programs," he said. "The big dangnr i'i that if you are having trouble getting air into you, you can just tire out and you just can't keep up with it." 
In St. Pnter's Square, in John Paul's native Poland and in many of the 129 countries the pope has visited over a 26-year papacy, the faithful paused to pray for the spiritual leader of the world's 1 billion Catholics. 
White House press secretary Scott McClellan said Americans' "thoughts and prayers are with the Holy Father," and in Rome, chief rabbi Hiecarco Di Segni offered prayers for a quick recov­ery. 
Maria Pasnik, 46, a housewife in the pope's hometown of Wadowice, Poland, expressed a simple, anguished wish: "I pray that we can see or hear him again." 
In Mexico City, the Basilica of Guadalupe remained open during the night for anyone who wished to oll'er prayers. It was here, in 2002, that the pope canonized Indian saint Juan Diego during a fifth visit to tho country, where he remains immensely popular. 
Now Searching For New SUB Webmaster 
Are you creative? Do you want to work with campus events and entertainment? 
Applications available at sub.nd.edu due to SUB office by february 1 6 
SRI LANKA 
Tsunan1i victin1s not receiving sufficient aid 
70 percent of Sri Lankans left destitute 
Associated Press 
COLOMBO -Bureaucratic bungling has blocked food and medieine from reaching 70 porcent of Sri Lankans loft des­titute by the tsunami, a gov­ernment official said Wednesday, while nine sur­vivors of the disaster worn found deep in a jungle on a remote Indian island. 

In a drama that has eapturnd worldwide attention, a judge in Sri Lanka ruled Wednesday that a couple must undergo a DNA test to provo they arn tho parents of the 4-month-old tsunami survivor known as "Baby 81." After the ruling, tho distraught couple stormod into the hospital where the infant is b11ing held, screaming "Give us our baby!" They were briefly held by police, then rnleased. 
Thilak Hanavirajah, chief of Sri Lanka's presidential task force coordinating relief', said bureaucratic incompetence and ignorance had considor­ably slowed aid delivery. 
lie estimated relief had reached only 30 percent of those who need it in the second hardest-hit nation, after Indonesia. 
"This is not satisfactory," Ranavirajah said. "The presi­dent directed me to see that all families, or at least 70 percent to 75 percent of them, get relief by this weekend." 
The massive Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami that struck on Dee. 26 killed more than 30,000 in Sri Lanka, while nearly 1 million people lost family members or their homes. 
On India's remote Campbell Bay island, police searching for bodies found nine tsunami sur­vivors deep in a jungle. 
They had spent 38 days wan­dering across villages flattened by the killer waves, eating coconuts and hunting boars to survive and making fires by rubbing sticks together. 
Tlw nirw peopln belong to tho NirobaresP trilw and ineludP fivn mPn, two women and two tennagP girls, lnsplldor Shaukat llussain told The Associated Prnss by tniP­phono from Campbell Bay, thP only town in Great Nieobar, India's southernmost island. 
Tho island, loratnd in tho Andarnan and Nieobar arehi­polago, is also known as Campbell Bay, aftnr its only town. 
It is just 140 miles from Banda Aeoh, the worst-hit area in Indonesia. Many of tho island's villages worn wiped out. 
"They were silting in the for­est when we saw them, and they just ran to us, without saying anything," said llussain. "They somnod happy, yes, but there was no hugging and tears and shouting in joy and all that." 
Two of the survivors were severoly dohydratnd and were hospitalizod. The otlwr SIWPn were sent to a rnlinf ramp. 
In tho Sri Lankan c.apital, hundreds of people protested outside the U.N. World Food Program office Wmlnnsday, complaining they had not received food rations. Demonstrators from the south­ern coastal town of Malara submitted a petition seeking 
U.N. intervention. 
This was not the first sign of trouble with Sri Lanka's aid effort. On Tuesday, the govern­ment began investigating com­plaints that food aid intended for tsunami victims had disap­peared and some of the home­less living in ramps were being fed rotten supplies. 
The World Food Program said it had donated some 10,000 tons of rice, lentils and sugar and had dnlivernd the supplies to government stores island-widn. 
"We ran't understand why the people aren't golting it," World Food Program spokos­woman Snlvi Sachithanandam said. 
The eumulativn d1Htlh loll from II nations stood at between 15H.OOO and 17H,OOO Wednesday, with an anotlwr 142,000 pnopln estirnatPd missing. 
World leadnrs are trying to furthor c.oordinato tlw global aid effort, with l'ormPr PrnsidPnt Clinton appointml Tuesday to takP ovor as tho 
U.N. point man for post-t.suna­mi roeonstruction. 
Also Wndrwsday, Australian PrimP Ministor John lloward visi tnd lnd() nesia's battclrnd Aceh rPgion on tho nor·thern tip of Sumatra island. 
lin surveynd danmgn by lwli­coptPr. visitnd a liPid hospital to mont Australian aid work11rs and disc.ussod Australian-fund­ed r1dief' ofTorts with lndorwsian oflidals. 
"Nothing I have senn on tnln­vision l~otlld raptun• tlw PXtPnt of' tlw dnvastation," lloward said aflor flying owr tho coast. 
A modPra tn mtrthq ua ke of' magnitudn 5.2 Wndrwsday rausPd panic. among jittPry residents of lndonnsia's main .lava island, hut tlwrn wpn• no imnwdiatP rnports of' c.asual­tins. 
THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
page 10 
Thursday, February 3, 2005 
Heading south is for the birds 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Datne, !N 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDfiOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Meghanne Downes  Mike Flanagan  
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR  
Joe Herder  

NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAI'HJC<; EDrroR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DFSIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRATOR: jim Coulter CoNTROLLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO (574) 63 I -7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.l@nd.edu. 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 photo@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVERONLINE www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by rhe studentS ofthe University ofNotre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies ofthe administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority ofthe Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Qumions regarding Observer policies should be dirl!cud to Editnr in Chief Matt Lazar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The ObSt"rvct {USPS 'i99 2-4000) iii published Monday through Friday ¢X<:ept during tum ilttd vacation periods. AsubscriptLon to The Obsetv<i:t is$ tOO tGr -one ac:ado;:mk year; $15 for one semcl!ct:r. 
'The ObSC!rvtt is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address cottcaiom co: Notrt Dame, IN 46156-0779 ~Observer 
Periodical post;tgt paid at Notre Dame P.O. Bo.?79 and .dditional mailing. offict!l. IJ24 South Dining HaU 
Notre Dame, IN 465$6"0771) 
The: Observer is a mcmher ofdu~ Assodated Prdli. All reproduction rightJi are r~cd. 

Come winter, the weather in South Bend is less than desirable. Temperatures are low enough to make most people try their luck with a plane ticket to Siberia, and it seems as if we are left with the feel­ing that we live inside Molly a snow globe. Though Acker many students may have come to Indiana Nobody Likes A without knowing Dumb Blonde what "lake effect" snow means, you can now say you've lived through it. When somebody back home asks you about the weather in South Bend, you can explain how excit­ed you get on January mornings when enough snow has been cleared that you can actually see the sidewalk on your way to class. 
The nuances of a winter in the Midwest are never-ending: You have _to set aside at least five extra minutes every morning to scrape the snow and ice off your car, and the defroster never works as well as you think it should. You can expect to get sick at least once during the course of a winter at school. Living in the dorms means there is real­ly no avoiding this, so make sure to have some Kleenex, NyQuil and Robitussin handy. You also have to worry about the inevitable instances in which you slip and fall on an icy sur­face. I've already experienced enough of these falls to know that even a simple trip to the dining hall can occasionally turn into a scene out of the Stations of the Cross. (I've also come to realize that high heels and black ice are not a great combination.) 
At home, we have a sign that says, "One of the surest ways to shorten win­ter is to sign a note for 90 days." To be quite honest, I have never really under­stood what it means. Maybe it suggests that we migrate south for the winter and write nice letters home to our fami­ly and friends about the great weather and how we are glad to be out of the snow belt. 
Sadly, signing a note for 90 days would probably cause our grade point averages to drop lower than last night's wind-chill factor. Since we will all have to struggle through the snow until spring, here are a few ideas to help us think warm and weather the winter in South Bend. 
First of all, under no circumstances should you look at the weather reports. As they say, "Ignorance is bliss." I guar­antee the forecasts won't be great, so it's better not to know what lies ahead. 
Play some summer songs. My person­al favorite is Frank Sinatra's "The Summer Wind," but anything by Jimmy Buffett or The Beach Boys will also make it seem five degrees warmer. 
Put umbrellas in all of your drinks, whether it be a strawberry daiquiri or a just a glass of water. 
Throw a summer-themed party. Tell your friends to wear their favorite Hawaiian garb, turn up the heat and fill up a family-sized inflatable baby pool for anyone brave enough to take a dip. 
Go swimming. You may get some strange looks if you bring rafts, inner tubes, or water wings to the lap pool, but if it beats the winter blues, then why not? 
Go buy a swimsuit. It may be a good idea to consider hitting the tanning bed before this. Those fluorescent lights are never flattering. 
Watch movies where people perspire a lot. Whether it be "Long Hot Summer," Elvis's "Blue Hawaii" or even a Sylvester Stallone flick like "Rambo: First Blood, Part II" or "Rocky III," all the sweat is sure to make you feel warm. 
Go to a Mexican restaurant. The atmosphere always reminds you of summer, and even in February it's tough to deny a good frozen margarita. 
Watch golf on television. Not only is the scenery beautiful, but when some golfers experience a particularly tense moment in the heat of the tournament, you will feel like you are right there and in on the action at the warm location. 
Start making spring break plans, preferably to someplace warmer than here -think beaches and bathing suits. 
Take the tunnels so you don't have to go outside. Oh wait-they took those away from us. 
If you really want, you can keep you parents happy by staying warm and studying in the library (However, this is a drastic measure that should only be taken when absolutely necessary). 
Those are just a few suggestions for beating the winter blues. Although we can all be a little disappointed in the groundhog for being scared of his own shadow yesterday, don't forget to appreciate how pretty our campus looks when it is covered with a nice blanket of white snow. And remember: we may complain about how frigid it is now, but I guarantee that when we come back next August, we will all be complaining about the heat and humidity. 
Molly Acker is a junior communica­tions and humanistic studies double major at Saint Mary's. She can be con­tacted at acke6785@saintmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Women do hold leadership positions 
As a woman who served as managing editor for The To look at an organizational structure and evaluate it for Observer for two years, I was infuriated to find that the news­gender equity, you must look at it in its entirety. While the last paper was negatively cited in the Notre Dame student govern­four editors in chief have been men, The Observer has, during ment's upcoming Board of Trustees report on campus diversi­the past 15 years, a strong track record of women being elect­ty. ed to serve as editor-in-chief. It has also routinely hired 
In the report to be delivered to trustees this week, the women into the positions of managing editor, assistant manag­authors say that "there have been significantly greater males ing editor and advertising and business manager, as well as in the role of editor-in-chief over the past 33 years" and that section editor positions. Tell any one of the women who held "this could possibly be a reflection of how women often fill these positions they were not leaders and they will certainly supporting roles rather than top leadership positions." tell you otherwise. 
The authors of this report dearly did not speak with anyone I would never say gender relations are not a problem on at The Observer before levying their criticism, and clearly Notre Dame's campus. They are. don't understand its organizational structure. That is sad, I applaud student government's willingness to tackle the because it is a brilliant example at Notre Dame and Saint issue. But The Observer is one of the rare examples of an Mary's of an organization that has a strong track record in organization that has turned the corner. In fact, in 2001, as promoting not only women through the ranks, but minorities student government was celebrating the election of the cam­and non-Catholic students as well. pus'· first female student body president, The Observer had a 
To those who would say the role of managing editor is a different reason to applaud. There was just one man on the "supporting" role, you are horrifically mistaken. The manag­editorial board. ing editor works with the editor in chief and the assistant I would say that is a point past equity. Perhaps the student managing editor to run the paper. The editor works 40 hours government leaders would do themselves good by studying it or more in a week while balancing classes. The editor is on the and replicating it in their own organization. front lines of handling legal and ethical issues the paper faces. The editor is responsible for training and nurturing younger Noreen Gillespie writers. And the editor combs over each and every word of Managing Edimr 2000-02 that paper, usually until the early hours of the morning. Saint Mary's alumna 
That is not a supporting role. That is a critical role. Without class of '02 it, the paper would fail. Feb. 2 
TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Kate Antonacci Kate Gales Eileen Duffy Bobby Griffm What kind of discrimination do youJen Rowling Matthew 
feel is most prevalent at Notre
Peter Leahy Wormington Vjewpoint Scene Dame and Saint Mary's?· Caroline Murphy Kenyatta Storin Graphics lllustrator Kelly MacDonald Katie Knorr Vote by today at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"The best proof oflove is trust.,· 
Ovid 
Roman poet 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
Thursday, February 3, 2005 page I I 
Bengal Bouts: boxing for a better_ world 
hlr once, they caught a break. Becausn of its shal­low c:oastlirw Bangladesh suffered only two deaths from tho Indian <kean tsunami. One of the poorest muntries in the world, that nation, the size of Iowa with 141 million pnople (IB percent Muslim, 16 per­cent Hindu), is usually not that lucky. · Charles 
In 1970, a cyrlorw killed 500,000 Rice JWopln. Another in 1991 killed I:~x.ooo. Huinous floods, often Right or killing hundn~ds, are an annual Wrong? nvnnt. 
Sinen IH53 Holy Cross missionaries have worked in Bangladesh. Thn I I 6 Holy Cross priests and broth­PI'S, and 55 sisters. run two colleges, nino high schools, eight parislws and nunwrous ministries. Tlwy work nspncially among tho ultra-poor who makn up one-firth of thn population. Many families livn for a year on far less than we would spend on a football wnnknnd. Thosn people have depnnded on morwy raisnd by thn Bnngal Bouts every year since 
I'J31. 
Tlw student-run Boxing Club conducts thn Bouts undnr thn guidaiH:e of Hid1 O'Lnary and Dave Brown of Club Sports. Last ynar tho Bouts contributed $45,000. a hugo sum in Bangladnsh tnrms. The Club aims to do bnttnr this ynar under tlw leadership of prnsidnnt c;alen Loughrey and of!icnrs Nathan l.ohnwyer, .lim Christoforntli, Miko Panzica, Mark Dnsplintnr, .Johnny GI'iflin. Nathan Sc:hroedor, Greg Schanl'nr and Mark Basola. The brains of tho outlit, however. aro the business managers, Kristin Boyd and Ashlny Merusi, without whom tho whole event . would grind to a halt. 
Thn Club is lnd by oxpnriencod coaches who are fornwr Bengal boxers. Tho head coaches, Terry .Johnson, a Chicago attorney, and Tom Suddes, a Columbus dnvnlopnr, give abundantly of their time and talnnt, along with coach Pat Farrell, the Univnrsity pilot. Torn Suddes is sure that his prac­tiePs will bn rnc:allnd with pain but also with grati­tude. 
Assistant c:oaclws include Swent C. Hobinson, Thad Naquin and recent Bengal champs Hyan Hans, Chip Farrnll. .lefT Dobosh and Tom Biolehini. .Judge Holand Chamblee, a four-time Bengals champ, coaches and works the corners at the bouts. 
This 75th annivnrsary is special bneause it will be the first program in five decades without .lack Mooney, who died last September at age 92. Jack was literally the paper boy for Knute Hoekne, who usnd to sneak him onto the sidelines for home games. .Jaek was the trainer and living symbol of sizn of the building to accommodate 20 students. In the parish dispensary. thn consocratnd bring dor.tors in to serve for a foe of' only $1.50 a visit, but the nor­mal daily income of a family is 40 eents. In Mariamnagar and Chittagong, a common problem is 
tho destruction of crops by rampaging wild eln­
the meaning of the Bouts. "II' you never met 
phants and pigs. Jack," wrote l'ormer boxer .leevan Still, the primary need is education. 
Subbiah. "think of the old coach Mieky from the 'Hoeky' movies, and tlwn add an old-sc:hool Notre Dame Catholic twist." The Club aims for a record contribution this year in memory of Jack. I lis long-time assistant, Jack Zimmerman. has succeeded Jack Mooney as trainer. 
The boxers participate for various reasons: to get in shape, for the experi­ence of climbing into the ring alone and with no excuses, for thc1 l'riend­ship and for the run or it. But you might be sur­prised at the impressive extent to which they buy into the purpose of the Bouts-to help others who really nnnd it. 
Think of what those Holy Cross priests, brothers and sisters accomplish with sums that we would see as small change. St. Joseph Parish in Srimangal is 60 miles long with 70 villages and 8000 parishioners, almost all from the "tribal people" who represent 1 per­cent of the population of Bangladesh, 
Each child at I>iglakuna Primary Hostel incurs a cost of $32 a year to educate. Each of tlw 100 teens at Mariamnagar High School Hostel requires just. $80 per year. So you sew why the Bcmgal Bouts are important.. The prc~liminaries will be 
lwld on February 2H and March 1st, the quarter­finals on March 3rd, tlw somi-Jinals on March Ih and the finals on Marc:l1 19th-all in t.he JACC. All members of t.he Notre Damn eommunity arn weleome to visit tlw prae­tices, which runfrom 4 to 6 p.m., weekdays, in the 
JACC boxing room. Dospitl"l ever-inereasing political violence and tnr­rorism, tho Holy Cross mis­sionaries stay on thn front lines. They need our help. So please support the Bengal 
Bouts. Buy an ad in the pro­gram, donate rnorwy, sell ticknts and, espeeially, come to t.hn Bouts 
to encourage this uniquely Notre 
Dame endeavor. but 65 percent of the Christian population. 
Professor Emeritus Charles h'. Rice is on 
The parish runs a "life skills" school for young women from very poor families. With 16 stu­dents, it operates for a year on a meager total of $2,000. They also facilitate a primary-grade hostel for poor and isolated children, often from broken families. With only $5,000, they could double the 
the Law Sclwolfaculty. /lis rolwnn appears every other Thursday. 1/e can be contacted at plawecki.l@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
God, Country, Notre Dam.e and Coke? 
The front page of the Feb. 2 edition of The Observer featured an article announc­ing the start of tho campus wide "Coca-Cola Challenge." The artide outlined the cam­pai!{n sponsored by Coke which awards cash prizes to dorms with the largest per­centage of Coca-Cola purchases per resi­dent. 
Coke hopes by embraeing dorm unity this promotion will be more successful than past campaign techniques. We would like to commend the Coca-Cola Corporation for not only taking advantage of the Notre Dame student body but for getting us to both support and promote their exploita­tion of us. Job well dono. 
ll is bad enough that in today's soeiety we arn assaulted by advertisements from all mediums-tnlovision, radio and the Internet. But now, the Coea-Cola Corporation has crafted the students into both tlw promoters and the audience of thnir marketing campaign. 
Coca-Cola has dupnd tho students into doing their advertising for them with tho promise of a "niee little chunk of cash." The free advertising is all over campus­it's on thn front page of our paper, it's in bold print in Walsh Hall Stall Notns, it's prnsent in dorm mnails and at llall Council. The advertising has even inliltrated Keough llall's rnligious servkes. It seems that noth­ing can stop Coke from taking over Notre Damn's campus. 
Coke's campus market representative, Judah Wilson, said in the article this gener­ous promotion is a pork of Notre Dame's prnstige account which "means that [a company is] willing not to focus on profit because the account is more valuable." 
We have a question: How is Coke not going to make a profit from this campaign? The free advertising alone is worth more than our weight in Dasani. 
Furthermore, after crunching some num­bers, we've discovered if, in the heat of competition, roughly every student buys a measly three 20 ounce bottles of Coke dur­ing this six-week campaign, Coke will bring in an estimated $32,400. 
Even after you subtract the $4,000 in prizes that Coke is giving the campus out of the goodness of their hearts, Coke will still have grossed $28,400. Either Coke is going to prolit, or it costs a ton of money to main­tain vending machines. You decide. 
While medieal studies discourage soda consumption on the grounds that one can of Coke contains about 10 teaspoons of sugar, we are encouraging people to "Drink Coke, it pays." 
While other campuses are boycotting the global Coca-Cola Corporation for their human rights abuses, we are pumping vending machines full of quarters all for a one in 27 chance at a $2,000 "grand prize." Maybe we can use this to fund our new Coke habit after the promotion has ended. 
Drink Coke -it pays the Coca-Cola Corporation. 
Mary Lynch Kathleen O'Brien Sophomores Walsh Hall Feb. 2 

U-WIRE 
Fair trial unlikely 
Jury selection began yesterday for the trial of pop star Michael .Jackson, \Yho is accused ofmany counts of molesting a boy with cancer who frequently visited his Neverland ranch. Nearly everyone has at least hoard of Michael Jackson, unless, of course, you decided to start your own '~Village" in the mid­dle of a wildlife refuge 20 years ago. 
With that in mind, it is hard to dispute that an unbiased Staff Editorial jury-which by definition is supposed to be those unfamil­iar with the case -would be impossible to find. University of 
Celebrities have both advantages and disadvantages Alabama when it comes to legal matters. Supporters will want to be The Crimson on the jury to let the Prince of Pop o!T, regardless of White whether he is actually !,'1lilty or not. 
Likewise, those who do not favor Jackson because of' his past molestation accusations or just plain weirdness may want eonvict to him, no mattnr what evidence, or lack thereof, is presented. 
High-profile trials are always going to draw attention and make a mockery of the legal system. One would not normally think it appropriate to show up to court in an all-white suit and a gold chain-link bolt, but that is the ditl'er­ence between Michael Jackson's ease and that of' your Averagn Joe. Tho media is there for each step, making it subsequently harder to pool a decent jury. 
When examining this case, jurors-Jaekson fans and liws alike-should enter .with an open mind, despite the seeming guilty-until-proven-innoeent mentality that has already plagued coverage of this ease. Maybn the guy sin­cerely likes kids in an appropriate way. Jurors should enter with an open mind. 
After all, Jackson has had so many children at his Nevorland Ham~h that one would think more than two kids would have come f(lrward (tho lirst being in 1993) with incriminating evidence, but others have yet to aecuse Jackson (to our knowledge) of inappropriate behavior. On tho other hand, maybn he has committed heinous acts on other oeeasions, and youthful vietims have boon too shy to voice the crimes that have bnen committed against thmn. 
Whether or not he's guilty or innocent, the mal question may nnd up being whether more people on the jury like or dislike Jackson. It is highly unlikely thatjurors will be able to forget who Michael Jackson is outside of the eourt­room and actually make a decision based on the cold, hard facts. 
This editorial originally appeared on Feb. 2 in The Crimson While. the daily publication at the University ofAlabama. The views expressed in this editorial are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Thursday, February 3, 2005 
ALBUM REVIEWS 

Trail of Dead broadens its audience 
By MICHELE JEFFERS 
Scene Music Critic 

... And You Will Know Us by the Trail of Dead may sound more like the name of a George Romero film than an Indie Rock band, but rather than amassing carnage with indomitable zombies, Trail of Dead unleashes its wrath through perspicacious lyrics and pulsating rhythms. Forming in 1995, this quintet from Austin, Texas (Jason Heece, Neil Busch, Conrad Keely, Doni Schroader and Kevin Allen) has just released its fourth album, "Worlds Apart," on Interscope Records. One need only glance at the album cover's convoluted depiction of bellicosity throughout the ages in order to attain a sense of the album's intensity. "Worlds Apart" is ambitious and evocative, dealing with such issues as unguided materialism, con­sumption, and superficiality. 
It is not often that a band begins an album with an ode to the Egyptian goddess of fertility. but Trail of Dead has always been a tad outside of the box. The hypnotic chant in "Ode to Isis" builds up into a crescendo, creat­ing carnal energy that underlies the rest of th.e album. This energy contin­ues with the explosive introduction of "Will you smile again for me." This track features dramatic tempo changes in which the heavy hitting guitars tag team with Conrad Keely's sprawling, languid voice. 
The title track and first single, "Worlds Apart," imposes a far less forceful sound. However, the seeming­ly merry-go-round melody belies the lyrics. An attack on the sad state of commercial rock devolves into invec­tive about the shallowness of the American dream. Juxtaposing luxury and devastation, Keely ineffectively evinces that we will all eventually have to pay a price for the manner in which we live. 


The pace of "Worlds Apart" slows down with the reminiscent piano vignette, "The Summer of '91." One of the best songs on the album is "The Rest Will Follow," an ethereal reflec­tion on the inhumanity of humans in which Keely distressingly sings, "We are all of us so capable of the greatest acts of hate and the worst acts of love." 
The album's irrepressible energy resurfaces when drummer Jason Reece steps up on lead vocals in "Caterwaul," a song that is especially nostalgic sounding of alternative music in the early nineties. Always evading predictability, "To Russia, My Homeland" is an instrumental waltz, featuring violinist Hilary Hahn. The album reaches a satisfying resolution with "The Lost City of Hefuge." 
Trail of Dead experienced modest success in 2002 with rotation of the single "Helative Ways" from the album "Source Tags and Codes," but many people were turned off by the band's seemingly initial inaccessibility. However, "Worlds Apart" has proven once again the error of prejudice. Having already received rave reviews, it appears that "Worlds Apart" is just what Trail of Dead needed to carve out a part in the popular alternative world. 
Contact Michele Jeffers at mjeffers@nd.edu 
Bright Eyes has a bright future 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Just when it seems that all the guys who can play guitar have released albums, another one comes along. However, Conor Oberst is not the average early twenties pop rock guitar prodigy. No, Oberst is much more than that. He is an artist, who is essentially the maestro of his musical vehicle called Bright Eyes, which has been hugely popular in Indic rock circles for years. 
Although Oberst is only 24, the Omaha Neb. native learned to play guitar at the age of ten and made his first musical release by the age of 13. Hising to popu­larity after 2002's "Lifted of The Story Is in the Soil, Keep Your Ear to the Ground," Bright Eyes has now found an audience not only in the indie rock circle, but is moving toward a larger fan base. A part of the "Vote for Change" concerts, Oberst 
I'm Wide Awake, It's Morning 
Bright Eyes 
Saddle Creek 


has always been told that he was destined to become a great rock star someday. It seems that Oberst's day may have arrived. 
''I'm Wide Awake, It's Morning," one of the two new albums Bright Eyes just released, is a definite showing of the musical genius that is Oberst and his Bright Eyes counterparts. Overall, "''m Wide Awake, It's Morning" is a mix of folk­rock that leans much more on the folk side for the most of the album, at times even stepping a hints of the old country­folk music genre. Songs cover a range of subjects and musical compositions. The opening song on the album, "At the Bottom of Everything" is about the story of a plane crash that Oberst actually speaks out before leading into the song that is, according to the story, sung to a woman by the man sitting next to her as the plane is crashing down. "At the Bottom of Everything" covers the large idea of pur­pose in living in a quirky yet provoking fashion that few but Oberst could pull ofT convincingly: "While my mother waters plants my father loads his gun. He says, Death will give us back to God. just like the setting sun is returned to the lone­some ocean." Oberst does not stop at ideas regarding the purpose of life. "Lua" one of the best songs on the album is a darkly themed song about a drug romance between two people that are dis­connected by the morning. 

The album covers a range of topics and suggests a great many philosophic views of life, but Oberst sums it all up in the first line of "Road to Joy," which is the last song on the album: "The sun came up with no conclusions. Flowers sleeping in their beds. The city cemetery's humming. I'm wide awake it's morning." For Oberst, it seems he simply accepts that life is going on around him and all he can do is be present to it. He presents a world with problems, but not with many concrete conclusions. 
Oberst's philosophies arc intriguing and his lyrics are refreshingly unique. The sound of Bright Eyes is folk rock with a bit of twist, including instruments from trum­pets to organs and much more. While not every song on ''I'm Wide Awake, It's Morning" is terrific, most of them are innovative and memorable. He may play the guitar and sing, but now there is final­ly an artist fitting that description that doesn't sound like John Mayer. 
Contact Bccca Saunders at rsaundcr@nd.cdu 

THE OBSERVER 

CENE
Thursday, f;ebruary 3, 2005 
page 13 
CONCERT PREVIEW 
NY Philharmonic Orchestra comes to ND 
By BECCA SAUNDERS 
Assisralll Scene Ediror 
Thern are few people who have not at lnast heard of' the New York Philharmonic Orchestra. llowever, tlw numbr~r of peopln who have actu­itlly had the privilege of seeing the worId-famous orchestra is s i z a b I y smalln. This uniqun opportunity is availahlr~ to tlw Notrr~ Dame commu­nity tonight as the New York Philharmonic Orchestra pr~rf'orms a concr~rt in the Leighton Concnrt llall at thn Debartolo Performing Arts Cr!ntnr. 
Till' orche-stra was originally found­Pel by un~li Corr~lli Hill in 1842, mak­ing tlw New York Philharmonic by far llw oldest symphony orchestra in the United Statns. The renowned Orclwstra will play its 14,002nd show in the Leighton Concert llall. Known for thn difficulty of its piecns and high quality of its performance, the N~~ w York Phi Iharmonic Orchestra promises to be a memorable experi­nnce for any that arc fortunate f!nough to attend. 
The New York Philharmonic is cur­rently conducted by Maestro Lorin Maazcl. who has been conducting the Orchestra since Sept. of 2002. Even Maazel spoke of the powerful experi­ence of listeninJ to the Orchestra in a press conference on Jan. 26, 2005: "The collaboration with the m usi­eians of the New York Philharmonic is sheer joy. The Orchestra is so pro­fnssional, so prepared, so motivated. 
I float from day to day, concert to concert, masterpiece to masterpiece, supported by the sound of the New York Philharmonic." Few people are able to live such a life, but each audi­ence member in the Leighton Concert llall will experience the near musical perfection that tho New York Philharmonic is CQ.nposcd of for at least one night thL Thursday. 
Maazel follows in a long legacy of c o n d u c t o r s o f t lw Ne w Yo r k Philharmonic Orchestra, one of tho most famous of these being Leonard Bernstein. Bernstein began conduct­ing the New York Philharmonic Orchestra in 1943 and became the Laureate Conductor from that point until1990 when he died. An advocate of American composers from the beginning of his career, Bernstein is one of the most famous names associ­ated with the New York Philharmonic Orchestra. 
The Orchestra itself is composed of 106 musicians playing instruments as common as the flute and trumpnt to ones that are much lesser known such as the contrabassoon, harpsi­chord and the timpani. The extensive list of instruments is necessary for the complicated music the New York Philharmonic plays. The orchestra has been trusted in giving the first performance of a number of famous works, such as Gershwin's Concerto in F; Dyorak's Symphony No. 9, "From the New World"; Copeland's "Connotations" and Hachrnaninoff's Piano Concert No. 3 with the compos­er at the keyboard. The orchestra 
also played the first United States debut of Beethoven's Symphony No. 8 and 9. For the concert at the Debartolo Center for the Performing Arts the orchestra will play Dvorak's Symphony No. 9, "From the New World" and Bela Bartok's "Concerto for Orchestra." 
It is not often that one will have the opportunity to see the New York Philharmonic Orchestra, but for those 

ALBUM REVIEW 
Split album should stay on the shelves 
By RYAN ROGERS 
Seen~ Music Criric 
The best way to describe the Matchbook Homanco/Motion City Soundtrack Split is disappointing. 
First of all tlw album contains only four songs with a total running time of I h minutes. Second of all. the album is all acoustic. This style of music is not only a change but also a vast disap­pointnwnt to fans of the earlier work of eillll'r band. 
Matchbook Homance performs the l'irst two songs on tlw album, while Motion City Soundtrack performs the sucond two. The Matchbook Homance half of the album is flawed heavily. It is a fairly generic modern punklemo/hardcore band. llowever, in the past, it has stood out not for style distinction but for merely working well within a well-established, well-explored genre. 
The opening track "In Transit (for You)" is painful. In fact it leaves the lis­tener dreading what is to follow. The song features slow strumming and crooning from a band that normally uses distorted guitars, strained vocals and screams. On top of that, the lyrical content is somewhat uninspired: "Baby if you want me to I I'd do anY.thing for yol'. 
Thn second track is redeeming, but Matchbook Homance fans will n~cog­nize it as an acoustic version or "Playing ror Kenps" ofT or its latest LP, "Stories & Alibis." While this is a quali­ty song, the original version is much better. The song was originally intend­ed to be screamed with gnashing gui­tars and crashing cymbals and it shows. Instead the listener gets a series of faux build-ups and a feeling that something is missing. 
The Motion City Soundtrack portion that do not yet have tickets, the opportunity is not going to arrive this Thursday night. The show is sold out and only those with the foresight to join the ticket lottery weeks ago will have the chance to see this world famous orchestra quite literally play­ing in Notre Dame's own backyard. 
Contact Becca Saunders at rsaunder@nd.edu. 


of this disc is much better as both songs are original and Motion City Soundtrack, while not normally an acoustic band, makes a better adjust­ment to recording acoustic songs. Even so, the fact that their songs are acoustic is yet again a disappointment. Motion City Soundtrack is a power pop band. Its strength is the use of synth and the moog, both of which are woe­fully missing from this album. 
Its first track, "When 'You're' Around" is the best track on the album. It is catchy and will have fans singing along. It starts with a stiffly strummed guitar and gentle picking going on in the background. Vocally, Motion City Soundtrack has the range and diversity that makes it fun to listen to. "When 'You're' Around" is no exception. 
The final track is "Sunday Warning." 
It slowly and gently weaves with a full drum beat. This song is satisfying if the listener is in the mood, but the problem is a fan or Motion City Soundtrack would not expect this. Both of the band's tracks on this album are good, but a full, non-acoustic version would be so much better. 
Standing alone this album leaves much to be desired, and if you arc a fan of either band it leaves even more to be desired. The album fails both musically and as a concept. The only thing tying the two bands together is a common label, Epitaph Hecords, and the album seems wholly unnecessary. Ultimately it will leave fans asking, "why?" 
Contact Ryan Rogers at rrogcrs2@nd.edu ­

Thursday, February 3, 2005

MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
Wake Forest escapes with win against Duke 
with an explosive run led by all it could handle. Nardi had a
Redick brings Duke 
Paul. career-high six 3-pointers. With the Demon Deacons Allan Ray added 16 and Foye
back in final minutes 
leading just 50-49, Eric finished with 15. They com­but Deacons prevail Williams started the spurt with bined for 11 assists and five a basket before Paul scored on steals. Associated Press three quick possessions. After The Huskies rallied from a two jumpers, Paul stole the ball seven-point deficit with 7 4 per­
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. from Redick under the basket, cent shooting in the second Chris Paul scored 23 points then scrambled up the court to half. Rudy Gay had 17 points and Wake Forest withstood a fire an open 3-pointer for a 59-for UConn, and Marcus flurry of late 3-pointers to 49 lead. Williams finished with 12 hang on for a 92-89 victory The game seesawe~ through points and nine assists. Josh over Duke on Wednesday night. most of the first half until Boone scored six of his eight 
The seventh-ranked Demon Wake Forest's Trent Strickland points from the line as the Deacons (18-3, 6-2 Atlantic was called for a technical foul Huskies made a season-high 30 Coast Conference) led by as for hanging on the rim on a free throws. many as 14 in the second half missed dunk with 6:04 to play. The Huskies also outre­and appeared headed to an Redick hit the ensuing free bounded the Wildcats 41-35, easy victory. throws to tie it at 30, but the led by Hilton Armstrong's 11. 
But J.J. Redick made a trio of call seemed to <(barge up the Villanova trailed most of the 3-pointers in the final 2:14 and Deacons. Downey fired up a 3 first half but didn't need much Sean Dockery also hit one as for Wake Forest, then Paul time to catch up. Down by No. 4 Duke cut it to 90-89 with jumped onto Ewing in a serum seven with just under six min­3 seconds to play. for a loose ball. Things got utes to play, the Wildcats went 
The BluH Devils (16-2, 6-2) testy on the floor, with players on a tear, hitting four straight had to foul and sent Taron from both teams clawing after 3-pointers in a 14-0 run. Nardi Downey to the line with 2 sec­the ball until the officials sepa­had two 3s in the three-minute onds left. He made both shots rated them. spurt and the Wildcats grabbed added 10 points. Massey and jammed it home to make it 92-89, and Redick's It led to a lengthy replay a 38-31 lead. Florida State took a 33-27 with two hands while getting off-balance 3 fell short at the review of the battle, with Georgia Tech 64, Florida St. lead on a 3-pointer by Jason fouled, but Hughes missed the buzzer -denying Duke a Ewing and Paul each getting 61 Rich as time ran out in the first ensuing free throw and much-needed quality win. called with offsetting technical Will Bynum made up for a half. Oklahoma State got rolling. 
Eric Williams, the ACC player fouls. poor first half by hitting a 3-The Seminoles got off to a Lucas hit a 3-pointer from of the week, finished with 19 The call sent the Demon pointer with 2.7 seconds left to quick start, leading 18-10 with the right wing the next trip points and 13 rebounds for Deacons on a tear and it sent give No. 25 Georgia Tech a vic­9:13 gone on a 3 by leading down for the Cowboys, and Wake Forest. Justin Gray had Ewing to the bench for Duke tory over Florida State. scorer Wafer, who had eight Terrence Crawford added to 16 points and Vytas Danelius with his third foul. In his Bynum, who shot 1-of-8 in first-half points and finished the lead with a steal at mid­had 12. absence, Wake Forest rolled the opening half, hit the game­with 18. court and a two-handed jam. 
Redick finished with 33 out to a nine-point lead follow­winner after Florida State Romero was the only other lie completed the three-point points and made five 3's in 13 ing four straight free throws made up a 12-point deficit by Florida State player in double play, and Graham hit a base­attempts. Shelden Williams had from Eric Williams before going on a 19-7 run to tie it at figures, scoring 10. line jumper ant! a 3-pointer 16 points and 12 rebounds, DeMarcus Nelson hit a 3 for 61 on a 3-pointer by Von Wafer Georgia Tech, however, went from the left wing to put the and Lee Melchionni scored 13. Duke to cut the Deacons' half" with 1:29 remaining. on an 11-2 run capped by a 15-Cowboys ahead 49-37. 
Duke came into the game time lead to 45-39. Georgia Tech (13-6, 4-4 foot jumper from Anthony Bobik and Lucas hit back-to­with a better record and a Connecticut 81, Villanova 76 Atlantic Coast Conference), McHenry to claim its first lead hack 3-pointers to stretch the higher ranking. But aside from Rashad Anderson scored 21 which only last month was of the game at 21-20 with 7:02 lead to 55-40, and Kansas wins over Oklahoma and at points and a made key block in ranked No. 8, needed the win left before halftime. State was never again closer North Carolina State, the Blue the closing seconds, leading badly after losing four of its Florida State won two of its than 10. Devils have yet to fully prove Connecticut to a win over last five games. previous three games, includ­Fred Peete brought Kansas themselves this season. Villanova. The Seminoles (11-10, 3-5) ing a 91-83 overtime win over State to 59-49 on a 3-pointer 
A win at Wake Forest would The No. 23 Huskies (13-5, 5-had a chance to go ahead with then-No. 5 Wake Forest. The from the right wing, but anoth­have been a step in the right 3 Big East) got their first win 35.5 seconds left, but Diego Seminoles snapped a 26-game er 3-pointer from Bobik -who direction. over a ranked opponent in four Romero missed a pair of free ACC road losing streak in their was out of the starting lineup 
Instead, the Demon Deacons tries. They snapped the 24th­throws. Georgia Tech called last game, a 70-64 win at for the first time this season in used tough defense and strong ranked Wildcats' three-game timeout with 16.3 seconds North Carolina State last the Cowboys' win at Colorado outside shooting to move to 11-win streak in coach Jim remaining to set up Bynum's Wednesday. on Sunday -sparked a 10-0 0 at home. Wake Forest forced Calhoun's 1 ,OOOth career winning basket. Oklahoma St. 77, Kansas St. run that put the game away. 13 turnovers -eight were game. That run for the Bynum finished with 19 57 Massey, who scored 18 points steals -had five blocks and Wildcats included an 83-62 points. He quickly made up for Joey Graham scored 23 in the first half, was held outrebounded Duke 44-37. upset over then-No. 2 Kansas. his first-half woes by scoring points and pulled down 10 scoreless for the first 9 1/2 
The Blue Devils have been Charlie Villanueva's free 11 points on 5-of-5 shooting rebounds, John Lucas III had minutes of the second half and short on depth most of the sea­throw with 1:22 left put the during a 15-7 run to give the 19 points and 10 assists, and finished with 2 5 for Kansas son because of injuries and are Huskies up 73-72. Anderson Yellow Jackets a 42-40 lead No. 10 Oklahoma State beat State. Peete added 14, and limiting Shavlik Randolph's blocked a shot in the lane by just 4:30 into the second. Kansas State 77-57 on Cartier Martin scored 11 for playing time as he slowly Randy Foye on the Wildcats' The rest of the Yellow Wednesday night. the Wildcats, who lost for the returns from a bout with next possession. That led to Jackets then took over. Luke Daniel Bobik had 13 points eighth straight time in mononucleosis. But their bench Villanueva's hook shot on the Schenscher scored six points and tied a career high with 10 Stillwater. got even shorter in this one other end and a 75-72 UConn and Mario West five during a rebounds in his return to the The Cowboys started strong when Daniel Ewing fouled out lead. 27-9 run for a 54-42 lead with starting lineup, helping from 3-point range and led 14­with 7:22 to play after scoring Villanova coach Jay Wright 9:55 to go. Oklahoma State (16-3, 6-2 Big 7 after back-to-hack 3s from just five points in 16 minutes. was called for a technical after The Seminoles, however, 12) extend the longest home Lucas and Jameson Curry. 
Once Ewing was out, Wake the basket, and Anderson went weren't-done, allowing only winning streak in the country Kansas State pulled to 19-17 Forest was able to open a 14-back to the line and made both seven points in the final nine with its 26th straight victory at on a driving basket by Peete, point lead, but Redick pulled free throws to ice the game. minutes until Bynum's big bas-. Gallagher-Iba Arena. but Graham stretched the lead the Blue Devils back into it Mike Nardi scored a season­ket. The Wildcats (13-5, 3-4) had again with five straight points with his late baskets. high 20 points for Villanova Bynum finished 7-of-18, a chance to tie early in the sec­-including a right-handed 
Wake Forest opened up the (12-5, 4-4) as the Wildcats' including 3-for-8 on 3s. ond half when Tyler Hughes jam over Lance Harris that game early in the second half three-guard lineup gave UConn Schenscher and West each took a pass from Jeremiah electrified the crowd. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Two story house completely remod· Great homes ideal for 3-6 stu-Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 Freddie Mitchell sucks eled 2003. Ready for 2005-06 dents.Ciose to ND.Nice Days $299! 
LOST AND FOUND FoR RENT school year. Off street parking area.2773097 Includes Meals, includes motion sensor light for Celebrity Parties! I'm tired and I've already taken two LOST: I pod white with black case COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINIUMS security. l'"our individually locked 5 bdrm on ND Ave available 05·06. Panama City, Daytona $159! naps today 15GB at Saint Mary s January 29. AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 SCHOOL bedrooms, six blocks from Notre 1000/mo. email Cancun, Has my only copies o YEAR.TWO BEDROOM,TWO Dame, bus stop in front of house, ndhouses@ yahoo.com Jamaica, Acapulco, I cant think of anything else to fill 
I my semester in Australia pictures. BATHS. surrounded by other student hous· Nassau $499! space with 
REWARD. Please return to ND or HURRY 235-7234 FOR MORE ing. Laundromat next door Award Winning Company! 
SMC securit~. DETAIL (drycleaning also), basement avail· SpringBreakTravel.com 
I'm not even from the New England
PERSONAL

able for storage of bicycles, lug-1·800·678-6386 
area but I am a Giants fan so I hate COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR gage,trunks,etc.,new furnace and 
the Eagles. FoR SALE LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year-central air, new kitchen including 1994 ND grads hoping to adopt. I love having four day weeks ... 
Available June 1 ,2005 2 Bedrooms-new stove and refrigerator, large liv-Please see WHy are you reading this anyway? 
One bedroom condo near UND.  2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Security  ing room for TV or entertaining, free  ParentProfiles.com tor more info  Few more days until the Superbowl  It's kinda weird.  
Appliances $72,000 280·8160 Kim  System. Fully Furnished (574)233­ trash removal.  
Kollar  7373 or Salvaty@earthlink.net  Call 289-4071.  (Arizona/Michael & Kathryn).  Let's gp Patriots!  thats i  

Thursday, February 3, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
-


NHL 
Negotiations futile in salary cap battle 
Associated Press 
N1\W YOHK -The NIIL's latnst salary-cap proposal to end the season-long lockout was rejected Wednesday by the players' union, which came back with its own idea: Bring commissioner Gary Bollman to the bargaining tabln. 
Bnttrnan acceptnd, and is snt to rejoin the talks Thursday for the first time since Dnc. 14. lie'II meet with union hnad Bob Coodenow, NIILI'A sonior director Ted Saskin and attorney John McCambridge. 
Bill Daly, the NIIL's chief lngal ollicer, and attorney Bob Battnrman will join nttman on thn owners' side. 
"Bob and Gary really have to bo in thn room to do the dmLI," Daly said. 
In turning down the lnague's offer, the union mit­eratnd it won't accept a salary cap as a solution. 
"Thn league presented a writtlm proposal with minor variations of concepts that worn prestmted orally by the NIIL last Thursday," Saskin said. "We told the league last wonk and again today that tlwir multilayered salary cap l!roposals were '\~t the basis lor an agreoment. 
The sides met for four hours in Newark, N.J., the fifth time in two weeks they've talked. Time is running out, and the NIIL is in danger of becoming the first major North American sports league to lose an entire season to a labor dispute. 
"They asked for a meeting again tomorrow, and we'll see what they have to say," Daly said. "The proposal was put together with their interests in mind, what they've commu­nicated to us across the table." 
The lockout reached its 140th day Wednesday, and has forced the cancellation of 762 of the 1,230 regular-sea­son games plus the All-Star game. 
With time being a factor, there appears to bn little wig­gle room in nngotiating off this proposal. 
"We're at the end time-wise in tnrms of being able to con­tinue this process and still play games this season, so there's not a lot of room flexi­bility-wise," Daly said. 
The NIIL proposed a six­year deal that contained a eap that would force teams to spnnd at least $32 million on player costs but no more than $42 million -including bene­fits. Both figures would be adjusted each year to reflect changes in league revenues. 
NFL 
Key Patriots ready to play 
Seasoned vets prepare to take on motivated Philadelphia Eagles 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla.-With the game on the line, the New England Patriots hardly lack for clutch players -Tom Brady, Adam Vinatieri, Hodney Harrison. 
With the game on the line, no one is sure if the Philadelphia Eagles have the kind of per­formers who could lift them past the defending champions in Sunday's Super Bowl. 
Though Philly's track record before this year wasn't very promising -three straight NFC championship game flops -the Eagles insist past failures were erased when they finally won the conference title. 
They'd better be correct, because the Patriots simply don't get stressed out, particu­larly in the Super Bowl, which they've won two of the last three seasons. 
"We haven't been to the Super Bowl, but we're battle-tested," said All-Pro safety Brian Dawkins, the leader of a defense that includes one starter who has played in the big game -end Jevon Kearse with Tennessee in 2000. "We've been tested in championship games. We feel pressure year after year and we know how to win in those situations." 
They hadn't won in crucial situations, though, until beating Atlanta to avoid becoming the first franchise to lose four straight NFC title games. The Patriots have won eight consee­utive postseason games with Brady at quarterback and Bill Belichick as coaeh, and they are seven-point favorites over Philadelphia. 
"I don't feel we're at a disad­vantage," coach Andy Heid said. "They go in and think they are as good as anybody in the NFL, but they understand they have to prove it every Sunday." 
Especially this Sunday, against a team on thn verge of bning eonsidernd a dynasty. Not only are thern questions about how the Eagles might perform on such a stage, but there are no qunstions ubout how thn Patriots will deal with it. They've already sueeessfully displayed their stenly nerves and skills under the burning spotlight-twiee. 
Which presents Philadelphia with yet another challenge: treating the Patriots with too much respect. 
is now accepting applications for
THE 

2005-2006 R Ge.neral Board 
Any full time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame, Saint Mary's or Holy Cross is encouraged to apply. Applicants should submit a resume and an application at least 3 pages long explaining how they would run their department. 


NEWS EDITOR 
Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR 
Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports 
Edttor manages a staff·of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SCENE EDITOR 
Applicants should have feature writing and editing experience. The Scene Editor manages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas and is responsible for the content of the Scene pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography experience. The Photo Editor manages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with the News, Sports and Scene department editors in assjgning photographs. 
SAINT MARYS EDITOR 
Applicants should have reporting, writing and editing skills. The editor man­ages Saint Mary's department heads,· coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER 
Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The 
Advertising Manager oversees a staff of account executives and is responsible 
tor generating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of Quark 
Xpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager over­
sees a stciff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing depart­
ments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and .knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR 
Applicants must be familiar with building and maintaining a Web site. The Web -Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial department of The 
Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each daY.. The 
Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the stte. 
GRAPHICS EDITOR 
Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and a working knowledge of Free Hand or Adobe Illustrator. The Graphics Editor oversees a staff of designers and must work closely with News, Sports and Scene to match top­quality graphics with the content of each day's newspaper. 
All applications must be submitted to Claire Heininger in the Observer's office, located in the basement of South Dining Hall, by Wednesday, February 9, 2005 by 5 p.m. Questions about the application process can be directed to Claire at 1-4542. 
-

,-­
: ~p~ag~e=l~6===========================================T.=h=e=O=b=se=rv=e=r=+==S=P==C>=R==T=S==============================T=h=u=rs=d=ay='=F=eb=r=u=ary==3='=2=0=0=5 


The University of Notre Dame 
INNSBRUCK PROGRAM 
Is accepting applications for the 2005-2006 Academic Year 
Extended application deadline: 
March 1, 2005 
Applications Available www/nd.edul-,intlstud 
Questions?-Weber.l5@nd.edu 
SUPER BowL XXXIX 

Johnson's defense ready for Patriots 
Eagles coordinator quietly dismantled opponents all season 
Associated Press 
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. ­Jim Johnson spends countless hours studying game films, dis­secting offenses, searching for weaknesses and plotting his attack. 
The other defensive master­mind in this Super Bowl -New England's Bill Belichick owns the "genius" label -isn't high-pro­file and his unit is underrated. But Johnson has a knack for confusing quarterbacks and shutting down prolific offenses with his complex schemes. 
Brett Favre had his worst game of the season in Philadelphia. Daunte Culpepper struggled in the playoffs against the Eagles. Michael Vick never had a chance in the NFC cham­pionship game. 
Next up is Tom Brady and the Patriots in the Super Bowl. Johnson, the Eagles' unpre­dictable defensive coordinator, is busy cooking up another one of his innovative game plans. 
"Coach Johnson has the ability to know what the offense is doing or what blitz call to make," Eagles linebacker Mark Simoneau said Wednesday. "We come from a lot of different places. We drop a lot of different guys into coverage, so it's con­fusing for the backs and the offensive line. You have to have guys who can execute the game plan and we have talented play­ers here." 
Overshadowed by Donovan McNabb, Terrell Owens and the rest of a high-powered offense, Philadelphia's star-studded defense, which includes four Pro Bowl players, is one of the best in the NFL. 

When the games mattered, the Eagles had the stingiest defense in the league, allowing 222 points in the first 15. They fin­ished tied with the Patriots for second-fewest points allowed after the reserves gave up 38 in the meaningless regular-season finale against Cincinnati. 
"There's a lot to be concerned about with those guys," said Brady, who has been MVP of two Super Bowls in the last three years. "They have playmakers at every position. They can force you to turn the ball over. They are very explosive on defense and you usually don't hear that." 
The addition of defensive end Jevon Kearse almost equaled the impact Owens had on the offense. A disruptive force on the line, Kearse significantly bol­stered the pass rush. Johnson utilized Kearse's speed by play­ing him at both end spots and sometimes at linebacker, con­founding quarterbacks and the offensive line. 
Philadelphia finished second in the league with 47 sacks, includ­ing 7 1/2 from Kearse, one of just five Eagles _ and the only defensive starter _ who have played in the Super Bowl. The Eagles get a lot of sacks from their secondary and linebackers because Johnson likes to blitz just about any player on any play. 
The Patriots are getting ready for Philadelphia's aggressive style, though they're aware Johnson will adjust on the go. 
"I think it's important for us to be ready for pressure, but real­ize he might pressure 50 percent of the time or 10 percent of the time," Patriots offensive coordi­nator Charlie Weis said. "We have to be ready whichever way he goes." 
If Brady has time to throw, he's going against a secondary that includes All-Pro free safety Brian Dawkins, Pro Bowl strong safety Michael Lewis, All-Pro cornerback Lito Sheppard and cornerback Sheldon Brown, who probably was Philadelphia's most consistent defensive back. 
Sheppard and Brown quickly earned respect with a strong performance against Minn­esota's Randy Moss in Week 2. They silenced critics who thought the Eagles would miss five-time Pro Bowl cornerback Troy Vincent and nine-year starter Bobby Taylor. 
"Brown looks as good as the other guys, Dawkins is one of the best safeties in the league, if not the best, and Lewis is one of the best strong safeties we've faeed all year," Brady said. 
Middle linebacker Jeremiah Trotter solidified the run defense, which had been Philadeiphia's only weakness, when he became a starter mid­way through the season. 

"Rome in America: Transnational Catholic Ideology from the Risorgimento to Fascism" 
By Peter R. D'Agostino 
Saturday, February 5, 2005 9:00a.m. 
A1cKenna Hall Center.fbr Continuing Education 


OUND TH.E NATION 
Thursday, February 3, 2005 CoMPILED FROM T11E OnsERVER's WIRE SERVICEs 
page 17 


Men's College Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team  record  points  
1  Illinois (21)  21·0  775  
2  North Carolina  17-2  728  
3  Kansas  16·1  686  
4  Kentucky  16·2  660  
5  Boston College  18·0  643  
6  Duke  16·1  624  
7  Wake Forest  17·3  580  
8  Syracuse  20·2  575  
9  Louisville  18·3  524  
10  Michigan State  14·3  468  
11  Oklahoma Slate  15·3  463  
12  Washington  17·3  410  
13  Arizona  7-4  374  
14  Alabama  17·3  371  
15  Plllsburgh  14·3  341  
16  Oklahoma  16·3  310  
17  Cincinnati  17-3  280  
18  Texas  15·5  253  
19  Wisconsin  14·4  223  
20  Connecticut  12·5  166  
21  Gonzaga  15·4  141  
22  Utah  17·3  111  
23  Georgia Tech  12·6  98  
24  Maryland  13·5  62  
25  VIllanova  12·4  36  

Women's College Basketball ESPN/USA Today Top 25 
team record points 

1 LSU (38) 18·1 997 2 Stanford 18·2 935 3 Ohio State (1) 21-2 919 4 Duke (1) 20·2 887 5 Tennessee 15·3 808 6 North Carolina 17·3 793 7 NOTRE DAME 18·3 759 8 Rutgers 15·4 696 9 Baylor 15·3 686 10 Michigan State 18·3 648 11 Connecticut 13·5 552 12 Texas Tech 16·3 549 13 Boston College 15·3 472 14 Texas 12·6 465 15 Kansas State 16·3 429 16 Minnesota 16·4 425 17 DePaul 17·3 373 18 Iowa Slate 16·2 293 19 Georgia 16·5 236 20 Vanderbilt 15·5 232 21 Maryland 13·5 174 22 Temple 17·3 138 23 Penn State 137 120 24 Florida State 18·2 80
# 

25 Iowa .15·4 64 
CCHA Standings 

team league overall 
Michigan 11·3·0 20·7·1 Ohio Slate 15·4·1 18-7·3 Northern Michigan 11·6·3 13-8·5 Nebraska-Omaha 10·8·2 14·10·2 Bowling Green 9-7·2 12·9·3 Alaska Fairbanks 7·10·3 8·11-3 Lake Superior 6·7·5 7-13·6 Mlami(OH) 7·10·3 11-13-4 Michigan State 8·9·1 13·12·2 Ferris State 4·13-3 9·16·3 Western Michigan 5·12·1 10·13·1 NOTRE DAME 3·13-4 5·18·5 
around the dial 
NBA 

Cleveland at Miami, 8 p.m., TNT San Antonio at LA Lakers, 10:30 p.m., TNT 
MEN'S NCAA BASKETBALL 
NC State at No.2 North Carolina, 7 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 
Associated Press 

BALTIMORE -Sammy Sosa will be taking aim at American League pitch­ers and the short left-field wall at Camden Yards this summer. 
The trade that sent Sosa to the Baltimore Orioles from the Chicago Cubs was finalized Wednesday after commissioner Bud Selig approved the deal and the slugger passed his physi­cal. 
Chicago received second baseman Jerry Hairston Jr. and two minor lea­guers, second baseman Mike Fontenot and right-handed pitcher Dave Crouthers. 
"I had a great time in Chicago." Sosa during a news conference at Camden Yards. "This is my new house. and I love it." 
IN BRIEF 

Tennessee lands top NCAA 
recruiting class 

Tennessee traveled far and wide to assemble one of the nation's best recruiting classes. 
The Volunteers signed 27 players Wednesday, the first day of the national signing period, and went into Pennsylvania, Ohio, Wisconsin, Florida and Washington D.C. for topflight prospects. 
Tennessee had the No. 1 class according to Scout.com/Super Preps editor Allen Wallace and Max Emfinger, two of the leading recruit· ing analysts. 
'They're back to familiar ground," Wallace said. 
Defending champion Southern California, which was the consensus No. 1 on signing day last year, came on strong late and had a chance to add back-to-hack top-rated recruit­ing classes to its back-to-hack nation­al titles. 
Miami, Michigan and Georgia reloaded with highly rated classes, 
Under terms of the addendum to Sosa's contract that he signed Thursday, the Cubs will pay $16.15 million of the $25 million Sosa was still owed under his $72 million, four­year contract, according to details obtained by The Associated Press. 
Baltimore is responsible for just $8.85 million of Sosa's $17 million salary this year, with the Cubs paying the rest. Because Sosa is paid on a 12­month basis and already had received $1,307,692 of his salary this year, that amount was credited to what the Cubs owe Baltimore, meaning the Orioles will receive $6,842,308 in cash from Chicago. 
As part of the trade, Chicago will pay Sosa $3.5 million in severance within 30 days. The $18 million 2006 option in his contract was eliminated, 
but also cracking the top 10 were Nebraska and Texas A&M, two schools trying to return to the nation's elite. Terrell Owens ready to playin Super Bowl 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -Terrell Owens has seemingly put to rest questions about whether he'll play in the Super Bowl. Now, everyone wants to know how much. 
Will he take a major role in the Philadelphia Eagles' offense? 
Will he be limited to a few plays, nothing more than a decoy to draw attention away from the other receivers? 
No one -not even the ultra-confi· dent Owens -can predict what will happen on Sunday. 
''I'm not sure. but I'll be ready," he said Wednesday. "Like I said, I am going to be in the game plan, and it is going to be a game-time decision. I'm probably going to go with the now of the game." 
Owens practiced again Wednesday and the $4.5 million buyout was con· verted to a $4.5 million assignment bonus, which the Cubs must pay by March 15. He also agreed to eliminate the $19 million option for 2007 that his contract said would be added if he was traded. 
"Obviously, it's a historic day," Cubs general manager Jim Hendry said. "It's a day we feel is in the best inter­est of all parties. It's a good situation for Sammy, it's a good situation for the Baltimore Orioles and it's also some­thing we feel is in our best interests." 
The man nicknamed Slarnrnin' Sammy, whose 574 horne runs rank seventh on baseball's career list, endeared himself to Cubs fans when he hit 66 homers in 1999 during a duel with Mark McGwire that reached the national stage. 
and was listed as questionable on the first injury report of Super Bowl week. That means there's a 50 per­cent chance he'll play. 
Tomjonavich retires due to healtfi problems 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. -The stress of coaching the Los Angeles Lakers wore Hudy Tomjanovich down to the point where he needed medication just to get by. 
When that didn't work, he realized something had to change. 
So, Tornjanovich resignPd Wednesday, his tenure as coach of the Lakers lasting barely half a sea­son. 
"I think this is the best decision for me and the Lakers." a subdued Tornjanovich said at a news confer· ence. "A month ago, I became con· scious of not feeling good. As the time went by, I started to fePI my resistance going down. I went from this energetic, pumped-up guy to all of a sudden being sapped of a lot of energy. 
~---~----­
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, February 3, 2005 
Francis 
continued from page 24 
low-post complement. 
The Arizona transfer, demot­ed to the bench after failing to show coach Mike Brey his worth at the power forward slot, sprung out of a slump to rip nine rebounds and score 12 points. The game marked arguably only the second time Latimore stood out for Notre Dame, the other being an 18­point performance on 7 -of-13 shooting at Michigan Dec. 4. 

"I felt like I could just give them some energy tonight," Latimore said. "On the glass, I had some good opportunities to 

Going into Sunday's game against Connecticut, the Irish had relied heavily on Colin Falls' shooting from the perimeter. On Sunday, the Irish got much needed production from inside. 
get some offensive rebounds and some defensive rebounds. Basically, I was just trying to do whatever I could to stay on the court and play." 
If it took that kind of desper­ation to motivate Latimore, so be it. But such a quick turn­around in the Irish frontcourt appeared sudden for a team that takes 38 percent of its shots from behind the arc. 
"Early in the season we relied on our shooters, and it was cool because we were win­ning," Francis said. "But when 
j 
the Big East season started, [teams] scouted us and started to overpressure the shooters, so that really opened things down low." 
While the shooting of Colin Falls, Ch,ris Quinn and Chris Thomas helps open the low post, the inside game begins and ends with Francis. If Francis attacks the basket the way he did against Connecticut, he opens operating room for Latimore and Cornett. 
Judging by the collective atti­tude of the Irish frontcourt, Notre Dame's offense could continue to thrive on a two­dimensional attack of outside shooting and physical low-post play. 
"I think our guys have really been offended because every team that we play they talk about the other team's big [men]," Thomas said. 
A dominant frontcourt per­formance against Syracuse on Saturday could change that. 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Chiropractic... 
The Right Choice For Your Future 
Is your dream to become adoctor, to study in beautiful surroundings, with aworld-renowned faculty and state of the art facilities-what more could you want in aprofessional education? Logan College students receive all this and more! If you are ready to accept the challenge of graduate professional study in science, physiotherapy, nutrition, radiology, clinical sciences, chiropractic techniques and extensive clinical rotations, then Logan College is the place for you. 
Logan College of Chiropractic gives you the sKills to help patients get well through non-invasive healthcare while preparing you to earn asubstantial income commensurate with your position as aDoctor of Chiropractic. Most DC's worK in aprivafe practice setting, providing time for family ;

f 

and other important quality of life priorities. 

LEGENDS 
FEB. 5TH J:. !O:OOPM 
ND, SMC, OR HCC STUDENT ID REQUIRED FOR ADMISSION 

~-­

Thursday, February 3, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles fall at Calvin 
in conference game 
recyc e The Observer 
Belles are 4-7 in MIAA with disheartening 62­46 loss to rival Knights 
By KEN FOWLER 
Sports Wrirer 
Four seconds into tho gamo, Calvin College forward Lisa Winkle gave tlw Knights a 2-0 over Saint Mary's with a layup. The Knights would load thn entirety of the remaining :19 minutes. 56 seconds of the game. 
It was just one of those nights for tho Bell1~s. 
Dospite holding Calvin six points undnr its season scoring avemge on its Grand Hapids, Mich., homo eourt. tho Bollos could not come away with tho big win tho toam dcsporatnly wanted, losing to thn Knights 62-4(>. 
The Belles held Calvin to 27 fewor points than tho Knights scored Saturday against Tri­Statn. but tho Saint Mary's offonse eould not rind its rhythm at any point during tlw gamn to takn advantagn of a decent dofnnsivo porformanco. 
Saint Mary's shot an anomie 2f>.<J porcent from tlw lloor in the first half. seoring only I X j)oints on sevnn liold goals. 
The Bellns postnd a nwn~ respectable 2X points in tlw second hall'. thanks largofy to excellent froe-throw shooting. A 14-for-16 outing from tho charity stripe in tho second half holpod hido tho Bollos' 25.0-porcnnt sncond-half shooting, and it obscurnd that tho team mado loss than 2(> pon~ont of its field goals on tho night. 
Saint Mary's onterod tlw gamo averaging f>4.S points per game. but the Knights stymied the threo-guard offense, keeping all but Bridgot Lipke, who scorod 12, to single-digits. 
Tho Beflos' inside powor­house, Em ify Crnach bau m. 
FREE Island Shuttle HORSES on the beach WATER Sports Bayfront DANCING CONCERTS 

,-'"--~,,. G~eek GA~;--~4' 
'. . ~ 

only managed night points, well ofT her 1:3.4 season aver­age. 
i\ tolling sign for tlw BPIIos of'f'ensive woos was the turnover-to-assist ratio. Tho Bnllns committed nearly four timos as many times turnovnrs -19 -as the toam had assists-livo. 
For their part, tho Knights steppod up on the def'ensivP front to counter an impr·oving Belles ofTons1~. 
Cuard Kristen Md>onald had livo stoats to go along with twr 1 I assists, and Lisa WinkiP blockod four Belles shots. 
Sarah Winkle ll~d Calvin in sr.oring with 12 points ofT the bonch. Lisa Winklo finished tho night with I 0. 
The 46 points represented lh n sneo nd -towns t ofTn rrs i vo output f'or Saint Mary's siru·n its first garno or tho snason. 
Tlw Hellos play next against llopo Collngo Saturday at :{ 
p.m. at tho Angola Athletic Contnr. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler@nd.edu 
CALVIN COLIJ~(;E 62, SAINT MAllY'S 46 at (;rand napids, Mkh. 

SAINT MAHY'S ('J-11. 4-71 
l.ipkl' :Hl h-h 12. CrParhhaurn4-12 0-2 X, Bush :l-5 l-2 7. KPsslPr 1-5 4--1 h. Bovct• :l-15 0-0 h, Mangan 0-!i 4-4 -1, Mull••n ir-:l :l-4 :J, llll.lllll 0-0 0-0 0, K1111i11 0·1 0-0 0, MalonP0-00-00. 
CALVIN ( 12-5, 'J-:l) 
S. Winklt• 5-11 1-2 I I, 1.. Win kit• !i-1 :l 0-0 I0. l.arson -1-h 0-0 •r. lloiiPnmn 4-!i 0-0 X. Onwinga :l-5 0-0 1>, Bnssis 2-:1 0-0 1>. Nanninga 1-2 4--1 h. Mt'llonaltl 1-7 0-0 :1. J'I'Uit'r 1-:1 1-2 :1. llniJ111a11 0-0 0-() 0. Boonstra 0-0 0-0 0. llPI!oos 0-0 0. 
SAINT MAllY'S Cnlviu  lsi IS :11  2nd Totul 21! -lh :11 h2  
:!-point  gouls:  Saini  Mary's  0-4  

(Crnat:hbaum 0-1. KnssiPr 0-1, lloyn• 0-21. Calvin -1-12 IBussis 2-2. Mrllonaltl 1-1>, l.arson 1-:1. I'PUIPr 0-1). l'oult•d out: Nont•. lh•hounds: : Saini. Mary's :12 (Crt•ar~hhaum <J), Calvin CoiiPgP :11> !Nanninga 101. Assists: Saini Mary's !i IBoyrP 2. CrPachhaum 21. Calvin l S IMrllonald Ill. 'lhlulli•uls: Saini Mary's 7. Calvin 15. 
---~ ---~---·-------­
,--­
~ 
I 
I 
I I Recruiting the 
I 
I CLASS OF 2009 
page 20 The Observer+ SPORTS Thursday, February 3, 2005 


David Bruton 
defensive back 
6-2, 184 

Miamisburg, Ohio 
"On the field he's very much a team player and real competitor." 
Tim Lewis coach 
Notes: all-district and division player ...made 54 tackles and three interceptions in '04. 

Derrell· Hand 
defensive line 
6-3, 300 

Philadelphia, Pa. 
"He's a big body. He has very good size and he plays hard." 
Mike Frank lrisheyes.com 
Notes: first-team all-state at both DT and TE ... made 72 tackles and eight sacks in '04. 



Steve Quinn 
linebacker 
6-3,204 

Cherry Hill, N.J. 
"He had some good skills." 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 
Notes: Philadelphia Catholic League player of the year in '04 ... made 74 tackles and six sacks in '04 

Paul Duncan 
offensive line 
6-7,270 
Dallas, Ga. 
"He was wanted by a lot of big time schools. He's a huge pickup." 
Mike Frank lrisheyes.com 
Notes: named Georgia offensive lineman of the year by Atlanta TD Club ... first-team all-state pick 

Ray Herring 
defensive back 
6-1' 215 
Melbourne, Fla. 
"He has the best hands I've seen at any level, and he loves to hit." 
John Thomas coach 
Notes: four-time all-state selection ... 149 tackles as junior ... 76 tackles and nine interceptions in '04 


A sa ph Schwapp 
fullback 
6-2,230 
Hartford, Conn. 
"He's the best fullback in the state, bar none. 
Robert Fleeting 
Courtesy Rivals.com COaCh 

Notes: rated country's no. 21 fullback ... ran for 1,110 yards in '04 ... first-team all-state selection. 

David Grimes 
wide receiver 
5-10, 170 
Detroit, Mich. 
"He is a class act. He will represent the Irish well, on and off the field." 
Travis Donnelly Irish Today 

Notes: had 48 receptions for 800 yards and eight TD's in '04 ... made five interceptions on defense 

Joey Hiben 
tight end 
6-5, 225 
Waconia, Minn. 
"The Irish needed an athletic, fast tight end and he fits the bill." 
Travis Donnelly Irish Today 

Notes: second-team all-state in '04 ... tenth-rated tight end in nation by Prep Football Report. 

Kyle McCarthy 
defensive back 
6-0, 190 
Youngstown, Ohio. 
"He is a similar player to Tom Zbikowski." 
TMike Frank lrisheyes.com 

Notes: played quarterback and defensive back in high school ... returned three punts for TD's in '04. 

Evan Sharpley 
quarterback 
6-2,205 
Marshall, Mich. 
"He'll provide some good competition. 
Charlie Weis Irish coach 

Notes: threw for 1,389 yards and 16 TD's in '04 ... scored 28 on ACT ... wants to play baseball too. 

Who's Leaving? ­

Sixteen seniors will not return to the Irish. . Offense: Defense: QB Pat Dillingham DB Quentin Burrell RB Ryan Grant DB Carlos Campbell FB Josh Schmidt DB Dwight Ellick WR Carlyle Holiday DB Preston Jackson TE Jared Clark LB Mike Goolsby TE Jerome Collins LB Derek Curry TE Billy Palmer DE Justin Tuck 
Comparing Classes: Offense 
Coaches recruit based on team needs and past commitments 
Class of 2009 

TE-Joey Hiben 
OL' Michael Turkovich 

RB-Justin Hoskins OL-Chauncey Incarn~ro WR -David Grimes OL-Paul Duncan 
RB~Darius Walker '· · WR -ChriSVattghil WR; D.J. Hord 
I 
' I 
Recruiting the 

CLASS OF 2009 


Thursday, February 3, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 21 


Scott Smith 
linebacker 
6-4,225 

Highland Park, Ill. 
"He's intelligent, smart and well-respected." 
Kurt Weinberg coach 
Notes: Made 143 tackles and six sacks in '04 ... named conference defensive player of the year 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
The timing was as good as a Tom Brady-to-David Givens screen pass. 
Just seconds before Irish coach Charlie Weis was going to announce 
his inaugu-Mike Gllloon 
raJ recruit­ing class, his Sports Writer cell phone 
rang, and a cellular rendition of the Notre Dame Victory March squeaked through the teleconference speakers. He didn't answer his phone, but a message had been sent to everyone following college football -Charlie Weis is ready to coach at Notre Dame. 
No, the reeruiting class that Weis announced is not very highly rated. But it's not for a lack of effort on his part. Asked if he has been on the phone "every day all the time" Weis responded affirmatively. "That's really what I've been doing," We is said via satellite from New England's Super Bowl headquarters in 


Michael Turkovich 
offensive line 
6-7,275 
Bedford, Penn. 
"He's quick footed and a really solid player." 
Mike Frank lrisheyes.com 
Notes: Did not allow a sack as a senior ... s~arts on 
basketball team and pitcher on baseball team. 

Weis at the wheel 
Courtesy of The Indianapolis Star Irish defensive tackle recruit Pat Kuntz celebrates during a game for his Roncalll (Indianapolis) High School team last season. Kuntz tallied 14 sacks In leading his team to the '04 state title. 
Jacksonville. "In some cases it helped, some it didn't help." 
Weis' effort landed few big name recruits. But if anyone can get football players to play better than experts expect, it's Weis. 
Brady, his Patriot protege, was a sixth-round pick out of Michigan before meeting Weis and winning two Super Bowls, with a third possibly on the way. 
That is why Irish fans should be excited about Weis. The class of 2009 is full of athletes with huge potential and small egos. They are the type of players Weis has said all along he wants -tough and nasty guys with a driving will to win. Just like Brady. 
If Weis can utilize the tal­ents of all-state selections such as defensive back Ray Herring and defensive tackle Pat Kuntz in the same way he did with Brady, Notre Dame will have success. 
The problem with Notre Dame teams in the past decade is they have consis­tently underachieved. Davie and Willingham were like blind men driving a Mercedes. The talent was there, but they drove it into a wall. 
This class is not the stan­dard for Notre Dame recruit­ing. With a chance to build strong relationships next year, Weis will bring baskets of blue chippers to South Bend. And he will not waste that talent. 
Imagine Weis behind the wheel of the Notre Dame Mercedes. With Parade All­American offensive lineman under the hood and five-star wide receivers in the gas tank, even the Trojan Horse might have trouble keeping up. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd. edu 
Who Might Return 

Twdvt" seniors could apply for a fifth year of el4,>ibility because they 
Wt'rt" injurt'd or did not play for at lt'ast ont' full season. Offense: Dt'fense: OL Zach Giles LB Corey Mays OL Mark LeVoir LB Brandon Hoyte OL Darin Mit.chdl DL Brian Bt'idatsch OL Dan Stevt"nson DB Lionel Bolen OL Jdf Thompson RB Rashon Powt'rs-Nt'al RB Marcus Wilson WR Matt Shelton 


Kevin Washington 
linebacker 
6-1,208 
Sugar Land, Tx. 
"He has a long stride and deceptive speed." 
Chris Pool Scout.com 

Notes: Member of Dallas Morning News Texas Top 
1 00 ... started at both quarterback and linebacker 
Class 
continued from page 24 
at certain posiqons that we wanted to get," Weis said. "For example, we might have wanted to get three wide receivers and we got two. Okay. So I think we at least reached the minimum of each position that we were recruiting." 
The two receivers are ILl. llord and David Grimes. llord is the only recruit ranked in Collegefootball news.eom 's top 150 players in the nation at 104th. lie is out of Hockhurst Jesuit lligh School in Kansas City, Mo. and runs a 4.4 40-yard dash. Hord made 36 receptions for 560 yards and six touch­downs last season and was named Gatorade Missouri player of the year. 
Steve Quinn, the latest Irish recruit having been offered a scholarship only last week, is being brought in as a linebacker but could join Hord and Grimes at receiver in the fall. 
"He had some good skills," Weis said. "He was kind of that athletic type that can play both linebacker and wide receiver. That's a very unusual combina­tion that I'll be interested to work with." 
Tight end recruit Erik Lorig is still yet to decide between Notre Dame and Stanford and has set no date for an announcement, according to Irisheyes.com. He is the eighth-rated tight end in the nation according to Scout.com and would raise the class total to 16 players ifhe commits. 
The three defensive backs that signed Wednesday include David Bruton of Miamisburg, Ohio, Ray Herring of Melbourne, Fla. and Kyle McCarthy of Youngstown, Ohio. Bruton wavered in his ver­bal commitment after Notre Dame fired Tyrone Willingham on November 30, making a visit to Wisconsin Dec. 10, before reaffirming his decision to go to Notre Dame. He is li'ited as one of the top-30 recruits in Ohio, 
making 5S tackles and eight 
interceptions in 2004. 
Neither Ilerring nor McCarthy were top-rated recruits, with Herring listed as the 41st ratnd safety and McCarthy the 74th rated cornerbaek in the nation according to Seout.1~om. Ilownvnr, both arn very athlotk. MeCarthy joins !lord as tho speediest rneruit with a 4.4 40­yard time, whiln llnrring ranks seventh in Florida statn history with 25 1~arner interceptions. 
Tho romaining thrnn oflimsive players to sign with the Irish , indudn quarterback Evan Sharpley, fullbad Asaph Sehwapp and tight nnd .Joey Ilibnn. Sharpley throw for 3,700 yards and 45 touchdowns his senior year at Marshall lligh School in Marshall, Mich. Weis insisted that although Brady Quinn is the starter at quartnr-~ baek going into spring pradiee, Sharpley and every other recruit will have the chance to eompete for a starting job. 

"I would be very disappointed if [the recruits] walked in the door not competing to get into the mix," WeL'> said. "So I think walking in the door for Evan [Sharpley], just like every guy here, you're trying to challenge, first of all, just to work your way up the depth chart to be in eon­tention to play." 
Other defensive recruits include Derrell Hand, Pat Kuntz and Seott Smith. Hand and Kuntz are both defensive lineman while Smith is a linebacker. Hand L'> 6­foot-3, 300 pounds and was named first-team all-Philade­lphia Catholic League at both defensive tackle and tight end. 
Kuntz had 14 sacks his senior year while leading Indianapolis' Roncalli High School to a state title. Smith is expeeted to bolster a young Irish linebacking corps after making 143 tackles in 2004, inducting 32 in a single game. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

Comparing Classes: Defense 
Coad1es recruit based on team needs and past commitments 
Class of 2008 Class of 2009 

DL ·Justin BroWt\  DB· Tregg t;>uerson  
DL-Ronald Talley  DB· Leo Ferrine  
LB-Abdel Banda  DB·Junior Jabhie  
LB-Mauric"e Cnnn, Jr.  DB· Terrail Lat\lbert  
LB ·Anthony Vemaglia  

DL •Derrell Hand  DB -David Bruton  
DL •Patrkk Kuntz  DB· Ray liming  
LB ·Steve Quinn  DB-Kyle McC.urhy  
LB •Scott Smith  DB· K('Vin Washtngtoll  

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Thursday, Febraury 3, 2005 
Batteast 
continued from page 24 
and scored 15 points on 7-for­14 shooting. 
"I don't think she was feeling too good," point guard Megan Duffy said. "I think a few years ago, I don't know if she would have done that, and I think she's matured. She wants to win more than anybody on this team." 
Boston College was leading 49­45 after a 19-6 run with 11:12 to play in the second. 
But the Irish never looked back as Batteast and Teresa Borton hit layups to tie the score. After end­ing the Boston College run, Notre Dame won the game down the stretch with its defense. After Boston College took a 54-53 lead with 6:46 to play, they went with­out a field goal for five minutes. Courtney LaVere tied the game with one of two free throws and the Irish went on an 8-0 run for a 61-54 lead with 1:32 to go. Clare Droesch hit a 3-pointer but that was all for the Eagles, who shot a season-low 34.5 percent from the field and 23.5 percent from beyond the arc. 
The Eagles also had 22 turnovers, a season high, which the Irish converted to 20 points. Notre Dame dominated inside, despite being outrebounded 45­
32. The Irish scored 44 of their 64 points in the paint, while the Eagles were held to just 18 points down low. 
Borton led the Irish down low, hitting 6-for-10 shots, for 12 points and six rebounds. Megan Duffy had nine points and six rebounds, and Charel Allen added nine points and five rebounds. For the Eagles, Droesch finished with 14 points and 10 rebounds, and Aja Parham added 13 points and 13 rebounds to remain in second }Jlace in the Big East. 
"I think this team has showed a lot more poise, and definitely a lot more maturity than last year," McGraw said. 
NOTRE DAME 64, BOSTON COLLEGE 57 at the JOYCE CENTER 
NOTRE DAME (19-3, 7-2) 
Batteast 7-15 1-2 15, Erwin 1-5 1-2 3, Borton 6-10 0-2 12. Duffy 2-5 5-6 9. Gray 0-3 1-2 1, Gaines 2-2 0-0 4, Allen 3-5 2-3 
9. D'Amico 2-3 0-0 4. LaVere 2-8 3-4 7. 
BOSTON COLLEGE (15-4, 6-2) 
Queenan 0-7 3-4 3, Hess 1-4 0-0 2, Parham 4-10 1-1 13, Marshall 5-10 1-2 
11. Droesch 5-16 3-4 14. Deveny 0-1 0-0 0, Dorsey 3-7 2-2 10, Jackson 0-0 0-0 0, 
Macehia 2-3 0-2 4.  
1st  2nd Total  
NOTRE DAME  33  31  64  
Boston College  30  27  57  

3-point goals: Notre Dame 1-4 (Allen 1-1, Duffy 0-2, Batteast 0-1). Boston College 4­17 (Droesch 1-7, Dorsey 2-6, Parham 1-1, Queenan 0-2. Marshall 0-1). Fouled out: None. Rebounds: Notre Dame 9-23 (Borton, Duffy 6), Boston College 17-28 (Parham 13). Assists: Notre Dame 16 (LaVere 4). Boston College 11 (Marshall 5). Total rouls: Notre Dame 14. Boston College 20. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
treat Food! treat Fut1! 
•1 Sports Jar it1 South Jet1d 
2046 South Jet1d Ave ~ Across fro* Martit1s Plaza 
272~1766 

fuEs: CoLLE~£ Nt~Hr-UJ 6-SPECIALS lsrARTIN~ AT ~l.OOJ Wed: Live fltlVIA Night -~rit1g your teatMs -Prizes fHURS: UJ -Pet1t1Y Night -1~ Specials startit1g at 
9:00PM 

Gala 2005 Greencroft Senior Center Benefit Featuring comedian Mark Russell 

.. 
Sat., March 19, 2005 8:00p.m. 
Goshen College Music Center Tickets are $35. On sale at Goshen College Welcome Center, 1700 S. Main, Goshen, (574) 535M7566. 
GRJENCf(OFT. 
.. i, ..'"www.greencroft.org,~.:::· 
Major sponsors: k One, Elkhart General 
Hospital, First State Bank, Goshen Health System, Jayco, Liberty Homes, MFB Financial, Nappanee
'Q:he &)nshen News 

~ a.~~.u.m 
Window, Sam's Club, Schrock Homes, and HomeCrest Cabinetry 
Sick 
continued from page 24 
Pain like watching a pesky Boston College team sprint ofT a 15-4 run, turning a 39-30 Notre Dame lead into a 45-43 Eagle advantage in the second half. 

Even after Batteast, who scored 15 points in 24 minutes, led Notre Dame's charge to a 64-57 victory late in the sec­ond half, the senior all­American didn't even flash her trademark ear-to-ear smile. She simply threw her head­band to a crowd of children and walked ofT the court. 
It was an exhausting, tough, aching night for Batteast and her Notre Dame teammates. But through 40 grueling min­utes of basketball, the Irish did what they almost always man­age to do this season -they found a way to win. 
That's no easy task for any top team, especially the Irish, who seem to face an oppo­nent's best effort on a nightly basis. 
"We've had the target on our back all year long.... Teams are taking their best shots at us, coming in giving us the best they've got," Irish coach MufTet McGraw said. 
Wednesday's performance was an on-court illustration of that statement. 
Every time Notre Dame took a sizeable lead, Boston College found a way to get back in the game. 
Kindyll Dorsey, who scored 10 points all season for Boston College, hit two surprising 3­pointers and scored 10 points in the final few minutes of the first half to cut the Irish lead to just 33-30. 
After Notre Dame took a 39­30 lead, the Eagles clawed their way to take a four-point edge at 49-45 with 11:32 remaining. No matter what the Irish tried, Boston College had an answer. 
The Eagles had answers, that is, until Batteast decided to take over. She scored eight points in the next 10 minutes and had two key assists that helped put the Irish ahead 61­54 with 1:32 left. 
It was a typical game for Notre Dame. They received solid contributions from all nine players who saw minutes. They controlled most of the game. And they used one of the nation's best players to nail in the coffin on another win. 

Most importantly, this win puts Notre Dame past a huge obstacle in its path to the Big East regular season title. At 7­2, the Irish are behind just Connecticut (6-1) and Rutgers (6-1) with those two teams matching up tonight. 
At this stage of the season, the Irish know what they must do. They must finish off the weak sisters of the conference -teams like Pittsburgh, Providence, Georgetown and Seton Hall. They must their rebounding. And they must keep confidence high. 
Do those things and Notre Dame will be a difficult matchup for any team come tournament time. 
And then, all the pain Batteast and her teammates went through this season -a rigorous schedule, injuries to key players and facing the other team's best performance every night-will be worth it. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Joe Hettler at 
jhettler@nd. edu 



SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 6 
... ...··· .•DeBartolo Center for the
2:30 pm
. ... ·..·.·· . · · Performmg Arts 
6fottlh f:JJ(!Itu:lrffpljthfJrnl/ Wt{llmlxYft {@in:leest?ta 
Featuring an enchanting journey into the Parisian mystique and magic that influenced some of history's greatest composers. 
• 
Guiseppe Verdi: Preludes to Acts I &Ill from La Traviata 

• 
Luigi Boccherini: 'Cello Concerto in B-flat Major (Delrieu/Gendron Edition) 

• 
Gioachino Rossini: Ballet Music from (Pas de six) from Guillaume Tell 

• 
Jacques Offenbach: Barcarolle from Les Contes d'Hoffmann 

• 
W.A. Mozart: Symphony No. 31 in DMajor, "Paris" 


Tickets: Adults $17 • Seniors $16 • Students $8 574-235-9190 • southbendsymphony.com 

ll.i'i'IOMAL 
........... 
maW'Itt* 


Guest Artist Underwriter: 
,\llTS 


Christine, Andrew and Mack Richardson 

Thursday, February 3, 2005 
The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
-------------~-----------------------------------------------------------­
SCOTT ADAMS
DILBERT 
r-------------------------~Er-------------------------~~r---------------------------. ~ I SAY I'M THE CEO f1 
YOU DON'T
I KEEP GETTING ®g OF THEIR COMPANY :::> ~ 

LOOK LIKE
BAD SERVICE AT ~ AND THEN I FIRE 'iii A CEO. 

STORES. 

"' THEM ALL. e 

DO WHAT I DO. 
~--2-)~ 

CHARLES SCHULZ
PEANUTS 

HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon
JJ~ID1rE. 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
' '(·=\? 

-.,
GINES 
_,=Wf!t
rJ ()
1 ±
02005 Tribune Media Services. Inc. Ail Rights Reserved. 
~~~ tonight 
The warden makes;:::::::::::=== l ~ "--thern sing for . 6'
BICAN 
-lheir !-#upper -......... ~-• ' 
' ~
-
_Jl: -:"\" 
~-:;..­
WHAT THE: DEEP­
THOUPS 
VOICED GUY TURNED INTO WHEN HE JOINED
[I]
www.Jumble.com 
THE PRISON QUARTET.
tDUSARI 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as
J rJ [ J 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
A: 

Ar I I I I I I J'I I I I J" 
(AnswerS tomorrow) Yesterday's I Jumbles: PUPIL UNITY TANGLE HERESY Answer: One too many made him do this-SLEEP "TIGHT' 
CROSSWORD 
WILLSHORTZ 
10 Cuddlypuzzle)

6 "No more!" 
creatures of

11 Title on a bottle 42 Go in only a Endor
of bubbly little way, say 11 Critical times 
14 Not promising 43 "Honor Thy15 Pamplona Father'' author 
DOWN 45 Face shape 

runners 
1 It aired the first 47 Year that coast-to-coast 
16 Winter coat 
11 Ones looking 
Botticelli died Oscar telecast,
way up 48 Peace of mind 
1953 20 Pronoun in a 
2 "Telephone

"Concentration" 50 Hit musical Line" rock grp.
revue of 1978 3 Tape deck 

rebus 
21 Spirit raisers 52 "Return of the buttonJedi" villain
22 A ruler may 4 Not rush
have them 55 Eyewitness reports, maybe 5 Stabs
21 Palate-pleasing 57 Deadlock s Versatile truck,
2a "That'll teach informally
you!" look 59 Take your pick 1 Positive sign
29 Short coat 60 Fat cats a Game stick
31 Short report 66 E. Lansing 9 Bound
32 Sought a school judgment 10 Not exact
s1 Some Damon 34 Some bricks Runyon 11 Parts of some characters farm tillers
38 King Harald's 36 Actor Albert 49 1887 Verdi s2 Hush-hush predecessor sa High-pitched 12 Square dance opera W.W. II grp. group, e.g. 
37 Battle of the 51 Set free 63 Classic New 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 13 Tangled 
52 Force open Yorker 1a To this day 
39 Exactly 

cartoonist 19 Lined up 41 "Z" actor Gardner 
53 Divert 

54 Good average 22 100 smackers 
Montand 

56 Title character 64 Dreyer's partner 23 Name on a 44 Fun-in-the-sun in Shakespeare in ice cream bomber spot 
sa Not rushed 

ss Part of S.S.S.: 24 High land 
46 Fast cat 61 Class Abbr. 25 "''ll speak a prophecy_ For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1 .20 a minute; or, with a
go": Shak. 

credit card, 1-800-814-5554. 
26 Cold shower? 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday
JO Last wife of 

crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. Bluebeard 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 33 Lone Star State past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). sch. 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young 35 Buck of filmdom solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ 
Address ______________________________________ 
City _________ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIUS DAY: Aaron Carler. 17; Tino Martinez. 37; Edd Hall. 46: Tom Waits, 55 
Happy Birthday: Take advantage of all the changes going on around you. Change can he wry lucrative and exciting, so jump in with hoih feet. Engage in whatever is going well at the moment and you will get ahead. Your numbers arc 6, 19, 28, 34, 41, 45 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Do whal you mus1 to keep tlw pem:e. A personal or emotional situation will escalate if you are too vocal. Don't get hd1ind in your 
chores.***: 

TAURUS (Aprii20-M;Jy 20): You can get plenty done, hut notal the expense of your health. Put yourself first and prepare to do sllmelhing thai will eliminate stress as well as get you into lip-top shape.*** GEMINI (May 21-,Junc 20): On-the-go is ihe hesl place for you today. Love, romance and mixing business with pleasure should he your goal. You can pick up helpful infonnation as well. ***** CANCER (June 21-.luly 22): You will he summoned to do things thai may nol make you happy. Family matters will leave you feeling cornered. Do what you must hut don't let anyone make you feel guilty if you say no.** LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): You may have a lot to deal wilh today. Your genuine sincerity and insightful ideas will put you in the best position when it comes to competition or a challenge. **** VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can do the social thing another time. Today is meant for hard work and big payoffs. Turn some of your well-thought-oul plans into a victory. *** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Push friends and family to help you get a job done faster. Tension may mount and some may feel resentful. hut once all the work (s done, offer a treat that will make everyone feel good about contributing. ••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Catch up on personal paperwork. You will come across a moneymaking venture that will help your financial situation. *** SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Give your best effort when helping someone in need and a favor will be granted in return. A relationship that can henellt you will develop to a new level of comfort. **** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): Taking a pushy approach will work against you. Let people come to you. The more you do yourself. the better the results. 
** 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fch. 18): Travel ;md you will discover valuable infonnation that will help you make an important decision. Children will enlighten you in ways you never thought possible. ***** PISCES (Feb. I9-March 20): Financial gains can he made. Winnings, gifts. insurance or money that you arc owed can line your pockets. Focus on home and family. *** 
Birthday Baby: You are outgoing. worldly and yet very calm, cool and collected. You have an inner strength and wisdom beyond your years. You have endurance and will never back down or give up. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and eugenia/ast.com. 
·. 
r-­
1 
I 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Thursday, February 3, 2005 
page 24 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Weis choices 
Despite losing several key recruits on Signing Day, ND coach is 'content' with class 
recruiting class during a press offensive coordinator of the New defense. Three of the defensive Instead, Notre Dame signed two By MIKE GILLOON conference Wednesday afternoon England Patriots. ''I'm very, very recruits will play in the secondary linemen -Michael Turkovich and Sports Writer announcing 15 signees for the happy with the young men that and add much-needed depth to a Paul Duncan. Both have earned 
class of 2009. they have added on here." unit that loses four seniors ofT last four-star ratings from Scout.com 
Lawrence Wilson finally chose "I would like to thank all the Rivals.com rates the class 39th year's squad. and will add depth to an offensive Ohio State over Notre Dame. Brian assistant coaches at Notre Dame nationally, noting that only two At other positions the Irish were line unit that returns all five Roche will be blocking for the who, in my absence, have done a Irish recruits garnered four-stars not as successful. Roche, a starters. Cardinals of Louisville next sea­very admirable job," Weis said, from the Web site and none Scout.com four-star offensive line­"When we went in here we son, not the Irish. Nonetheless, alluding to the fact that he has earned five. man from Ramsey, N.J., would would have two or three [players] Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis been splitting time between Notre Notre Dame signed seven play­have given Notre Dame a third was "content" with his first Dame and his current role as ers on offense and eight on solid recruit at that position. see CLASS/page 21 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Big East win is very important for women heading down stretch 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN Sports Editor 
Ali-Ameriean Jacqueline Batteast felt sick enough to take herself out of the first half of Wednesday night's game. 
But in the second half, it was Boston College dealing with that sickening feeling. 
Batt0ast put up 15 points in the second half to lead No. 6 Notre Dame to a 64-57 vietory over No. 16 Boston College at the Joyce Cent0r. 
"I thought we didn't have the energy and enthusiasm that we needed to really spark us tonight," Irish coach Mufl'et McGraw said. 
Notre Dame (19-3, 7-2 Big East) 

Clipping the Eagles 
went back and forth with Boston College (15-4, 6-2 Big East) throughout the first half with both teams' stars on the bench. Batteast, who has recently been dealing with illness, took herself 
-out of the game and played just seven first-half minutes. On the other side, the Eagles' Jessalyn Deveny, who averages 18.1 points per game, reinjured her ankle alter playing less than one minute. After·seesawing for the majority of the tirst half, Notre Dame went on a 10-1 run to go ahead 24-15 with 4:54 to play before the break. But little-used Kindyll Dorsey gave the Eagles a spark off the bench, hitting two 3-pointers and scoring 1 0 points in just under four minutes to get the Eagles within three at end of the first period. Dorsey had just 10 points all season before Wednesday. But in the second half, it was all Batteast, who played 17 rnirrutes 
see BATTEAST/page 22 

Batteast fights illness, Irish battle for tough home victory 
Jacqueline Batteast had one general expression on her face throughout Wednesday's game-pain. 
Pain like when you havn to throw up­which Batteast has been doing the last week thanks to llu symptoms. 
Pain like when you tweak your ankle -which Batteast appeared to do on a lay-up early in the seeond half. 

Joe Hettler 
Sports Writer 
see SICK/page 22 

MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Inside presence arrives just in time for Irish 
By PAT LEONARD Associate Sports Editor 
At the beginning of the sea­son, Notre Dame had an injury report long enough to resemble a grocery-shopping list. 
Torin Francis -who insisted then that his back was 100 percent healthy said Wednesday he has felt no pain this season that has hindered his play. 
"I felt just as comfortable three weeks ago as I do now," Franeis said. 
If Francis is telling the truth, a comparison of his perform­ance against Conneeticut to his play three weeks ago needs some sort of explanation. 
"We just kind of changed our approach to the game," Francis said. 
He can say that again. 
Notre Dame (13-5, 5-3 Big East), which previously was winning and losing games (West Virginia as the former and Georgetwon as the latter) according to its outside shoot­ing, found a complement to its backcourt firepower last week. Francis -along with forwards Dennis Latimore and Rick Cornett -began forcing team­mates to use the low post as a first option." Averaging below 10 points per game, Francis scored 19 points and grabbed seven rebounds in a 78-74 vic­tory over Connecticut Sunday. 
"Our post players have been playing well," Cornett said. "We've just got to ride our strong man out. [Against Connecticut], Torin was really rolling and Dennis was really rolling down low, so we just kept going to them." 
Cornett played only six min, utes off the bench against the Huskies, but he was as efficient as ever. Cornett shot 3-for-3 from the field and took a back­seat role as Latimore made his long-awaited debut as Francis' 
see FRANCIS/page 18 


en 
FOOTBAll 
SMC BASKETBAll 
SUPER BOWl XXXIX 
NHI.. 
MENS BASKETBALL 
LLI

1--
c.,) The Irish finalized 
Philadelphia's defense New England pre-
The players union
Calvin 62 
Wake Forest 92
z their first recruiting 

says it is ready for what-pares for the .talented 
rejected the latest salary 
Saint Mary's 46 
Duke 89 
class under new coach 

ever New England Eagles. 
cap proposal by the
Bridget Lipke led the 
The Demon Deacons
::5 
= Charlie Weis. 

throws at them. 
NHL.

Belles in scoring with 12 
defeated Duke at home 

points 
for the fourth consecu­
4 
tive time. 

= 
page 19
!;: page 20,21 
page 14

page 16 page 15 
page 15 
en 





