
.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Jenkins sets five goals in faculty address 


ClAIRE KELLEY/The Observer Notre Dame freshman Angela Carothers, right, tutors 7th-grader Ashlee Carrell at Robinson Community Learning Center Tuesday. 
By MADDIE HANNA A<sociatc Nl'ws Ediwr 
A li~w weeks after dPlivoring an inaugural addrnss with swooping, ambitious goals for tlw futun~ of Notre I >anw, University Prosidnnt Fatlwr .John .Jenkins linn-tu1wd his plans in a spom:h to thn fm:ul­ty Tuosday in Leighton Conc:Prt I tall in tho DeBartolo Performing Arlo.; Cnntnr. 
.IPnkins outlined live points ­undnrgraduate Pducation. gradu­al!' studi1~s and msoareh, divnrsi­ty, Notre Danw's "distinet Catholic mission" and liseal eon­strainl'i and opjlOrtunities -that lw said his administration would liii'US on during his pn~side1wy. 
As hn nxplainml these an~as of attl~ntion, .Jenkins plaend them into the grnatnr eontnxt of bal­ancing faith and rnason and molding Notrn Damn into "a 


Catnpus groups set up 'cotning out' closet 

Students have mixed 
reactions to event 
intended to promote 
awareness, solidarity 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Writer 
The clouds, cold and crowds didn't keep l'reshman Cece !Iolley from coming out of the closet Tuesday in front of South Dining II all. 
Not as a homosexual or bisexu­al, but as a multi-racial fnmale at Notre Damn. 
"Yay, this mak1~s me happy," Holley said as she walked out of a giant orange doset through a rainbow curtain. 
!Iolley was one of the l'irst par­ticipants in this year's "Come out of your elosnt" event, meant to promote acceptance of alterna­tive lifestyles on cam pus. 
Gender breakdowns apparent in service 
1\y KELLY MEEHAN Nl'wsWritl'r 
Sophomore Snrvkn Chairman MPgan ()'Jiara could not lwlp 

.hut notice that on lwr last com­lllllllity service proji)Ct of" taking young ehildrPn to tlw zoo that tlw numlwr of l'mnaln volun­tlwrs strongly outweiglwd the numlwr of' malo voluntnnrs. 
"Thorn worn approximately 25-]0 voluntl~ors, and only one of thorn was a guy," said O'llara. "The little kids really noticed, nspecially all thn little boys who were looking to hang out with an older college guy." 

Tho zoo trip proved to bn a small sampling of' tho reality that morn l'nmalns than males voluntnPr at Notrn Dame. Data from Cmttnr l"or Social Concerns shows that the gender break­down in community service rangos from 55 l'nmalns and 45 males to approximately two l'omalns volunteering l'or every one malo, depending on the type of project. 
Aeeording to Jay 
see SERVICE/page 6 

grPat Catholic university fi1r thn 21st cnntury," themes that sur­fan~d during the inauguration. 
First and l'ormnost on Jenkins' agenda was undergraduatn edu­cation, which hn called "a tradi­tional strength and defining char­acteristic: of Notrn Damn." 
"As we advanee the scholarly mission of' thn University, we must together ask how we can strnngthen our teaching mission," Jenkins said. "The question will be central to thn mming ynar." 
To answnr this question, Jenkins said a morn c·omprehen­sive evaluation of' Notre Dame's tnaching methods was necessary. lie said that while valuable, teacher course nvaluations (TCEs) lillnd out by students wern not adequate. lie mentioned using faculty pem· rnviews as an additional tool in the analysis. 
Not only will the administration evaluate the quality of the core currieulum required of all Notre Dame students, but it will also "revinw and improve the design of curricula for undergraduate majors," Jenkins said. 
The importance of increasing undergraduate research. a goal that Jenkins has emphasized since assuming thn presidency July 1, was presented alongside his statements on improving undeq..,TJ"aduate nducation. 
"We will seek increased fund-· ing to support undergraduate research and opportunities," Jenkins said. "llowevnr, even prior to the realization of such funding, we must together seek ways to instill in our students an excitement about the challenges of inquiry and of rewards of insight and discovery, creativity and probh)m-solving." 
see JENKINS/page 8 
"A lot of people don't fen I com­fortable being multiracial or biracial, but I am and I'm proud," Holley said. "People don't understand what it's like to hide a part of yourself. But on a Catholic campus we need to understand we're together and we can't single anyone out simply because they're gay." 
llolley's attitude was exactly what organizers of Notre Dame's second annual coming out cele­bration were hoping for. Students representing various gay and les­bian groups on campus creatnd the event as a means to increase dialogue about homosexuality on campus. The event was spon­sored by the Graduate Stud1mt Union and the Sociology Department. 
"You always have something that not a lot of peopln know about you that you can say to the world." event organizer Alex Henfro said. "We're not pressur­
see CLOSET/page 6 
GPAsfrotn overseas exatnined 


Difficulty of courses varies depending on study abroad location 
By KATIE STUHLDREHER 
News Writl'r 
Snnior l•:illwn Nutting spnnt Ias t y n a r s t.u dying at tlw Univ1~rsity of' Oxford in England with only five otlwr Notro Damn students. Though thnre was no· languagn barri­er, Nutting said that. tho course load was so l'.hall,~ng­i ng th a I t lw (; r ad o J> o i n t Averagns (CPA) of' tho stu­dents dropped. 
"In l'aet, of' tlw six of' us ov1)r thorn I'm pretty sure all six returned with lower GPAs," Nutting said. "(;rantml I don't think they droppNI too badly -a l'nw hundredths of a point -but. nonotlwlnss, they went down." 
While tlw University is vPry oneouraging of' students wish­ing to study abroad. st.udPnts ol"ten wondnr how ehallong­ing, or unchalll)flging. I.IH•ir coursos abroad will lw and what oiToet that will haVP on their GI'As. 
"Our campus is in South Bend, but. our classroom is the world," said Julia Dou thwai to, assistant provost l'or international studies, of' tho University's nl'f'orts to pro­motn studying abroad. 
Many Notrn Damn studPnts choose to vnnture away l'rom the Goldnn Dome t'or a SPnws­ter or ynar to r.ontinue tlwir 
see ABROAD/page 4 

page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Wednesday, October 12, 2005 
INSIDE COLUMN 



The Rules 
If Notre Dame lacks anything, it's not rules. 
And except for the occasional "Whoops, we fell asleep while watch­ing a movie!" or "Heally? the Indiana drinking age isn't 18?" slip-ups, Janice Flynn wn're pretty good at following them. 
News Wire 
But in an effort 
Editor
to strive for our collective excel­lence, I humbly propose a few more guidelines for campus life. I do not wish to add to the anxieties of midterm week. Like "Thou shall not kill" and "Thou shall not commit adultery," some rules are difficult to adhere to on a daily basis. Let's rise to the challenge. 
The rules (and possible conse­quences) are as follows: 
1. 
Couples are prohibited from same-side dining hall seating. 

2. 
If a student has: seen another student every day in the dining hall for the past 2/3/4 years; can name at least three mutual friends; believes there may have been at least one Saturday night introduction; and is aware of the other's current relation­ship status, club memberships, politi­cal leaning, and favorite month of the year due to Facebook stalk-er-brows­ing, it is permitted, even encouraged, to give a simple nod, half-smile, or the neutral "hey" when in passing. (This column is about 80 inches too short to discuss the full implications Facebook has on this rule). 

3. 
Should a student feel the need to train for the Tour de France on South Quad, any individual should feel enti­tled to clothesline the offender. 

4. 
Any student, though well inten­tioned, should not hold open a non­card-swipe-required door for an approaching student who, at 50 yards away, must change their relaxed stroll to the obligatory (and awkward) run-walk shuffle, thereby defeating the purpose of conserving energy and arriving at class 10 min­utes late. 

5. 
The playing of the "Black Eyed Peas" at parties shall be strictly pro­hibited. 

6. 
Classes shall limit the usage of the adjective "interesting" to 86 times per session. (This figure was attained by cutting in half the current average of all classes.) If this limit is exceeded, students will be forced to either a) bring a thesaurus to all remaining classes, or b) replace "What I thought was interesting was ... " wit~, "The only paragraph I read was ... 

7. 
Any student who wears the "Muck Fichigan" T-shirt outside of Michigan game week shall have to explain to campus visitors under age 10 where the "University of Fichigan" is located. 

8. 
Away messages that end with " ... call the cell!!!" should not begin with "class," "shower," or "Mass." If bro­ken, the perpetrator shall suffer the indignity of hearing their "My Hump" ring tone play 20 minutes into their Christian Sexuality midterm. 

9. 
Anyone referring to the second floor of the library as "Club Hesburgh" will spend all remaining Friday nights at Club Fever. 


Contact Janice Flynn at jflynn 1 @nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. Ifwe have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE HOBBY? 







senior off-campus  sophomore Alumni  
'"Riding my bicycle. ,  "Studying, eating, sleeping, fishing, fishing and fishing."  

IN BRIEF 

Teresa Ghilarducci, profes­sor of Economics and Policy Studies, will gi-ve the lecture "Law & ... Potential and Pitfalls of Social Security Reform" today at 4:30 p.m. in Room 120 of the Law School. The commentator will be Matthew Barrett of the Law School. 
Lyndall Gordon, senior research fellow at St. llilda's College at Oxford University. will give the lecture "Mary Wollstonecraft's America" at 7 
p.m. today in room 210-214 McKenna Hall. The event is sponsored by the Political Science Department. The lec­ture will be followed by a book­signing. 
Freshmen and sophomores seeking opportunities to intern or conduct research in Latin America during the summer are invited to attend "Experiencing Latin America Fellowships," an informational meeting at 7 p.m. today in C­103 of the Hesburgh Center. Summer 2005 recipients of the fellowship will talk about their experiences and tell under­graduates how they may apply for summer 2006. 
The film "I Wonder What You Will Hemember of September" will be shown at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium today. The film is about the experience of a Chilean citizen living in the U.S. on Sept. 11, 2001. The film is the fourth in the "Women Make Movies: A Latin American Perspective" series. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 


(f 
HIGH 66 HIGH 67 LOW 44 LOW 44 
Elisa Suarez Michelle Byrne Nick Chambers Joel Liechty Nancy Powaga Kyle Bibby 
sophomore Cavanaugh  freshman Cavanaugh  sophomore Alumni  freshman Keough  
"Watching my roommate while she sleeps. ,  "Laughing my face offat 2B techno dance  "Watching the LeRoy Jenkins video."  "/ like to play basketball because I have  
parties."  mad skills. "  

Man in underwear faces !burglary charges 
BRIDGEPORT, Conn. -A 31-year-old man is facing burglary charges after being caught inside the Bridge Academy charter school in his underwear. Police said they were responding to an alarm at the school at about 8:15 
a.m. Sunday when they found William Hoskins apparently downloading pornography on an office computer. 
A duffel bag, clothing and a wallet containing Hoskins' ID, were found on the floor nearby, along with a bucket of urine, police said. 
TODAY u:: 


Kris Pelton, Debbie King and Elizabeth Voss work on their projects at Saint Mary's "Knit Night" Tuesday. 
OFFBEAT 

cigarette packs throughout the Preston County town. 
"You would not believe the customers who are call­ing me saying 'We have your cigarettes.' Sometimes _it's 20 packs at a time," Dixon said Monday. 
"How stupid are you? I mean, we have good bags right on the shelf." 
Dixon said cigarette lighters, beef sticks and video games also were stolen, and the thief "had wine ready to go out the window," when he appar­ently was disturbed. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Police said Hoskins told them he went into the school to use the bathroom. 
He was held in lieu of $500 bond for an appear­ance in Superior Court Tuesday. 
Thieves leave trail of cigarettes behind 
TERRA ALTA, W.Va. ­Nellie Dixon didn't have to work very hard to recover 
. the cigarettes that someone stole from the convenience store she manages. Whatever the thief used to carry the smokes out of the Terra Alta Shop 'n Save apparently broke as they fled, scattering dozens of 
TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
LLI 
:J: 
·-<
LIJ
.... 
s 
•.I 
c:c 
(.) 0 



HIGH 66 HIGH 56 HIGH 71 HIGH 72
...J 

LOW 60 LOW 50 LOW 53 LOW 50 
Atlanta 78 I 63 Boston 56 I 52 Chicago 66 I 55 Denver 57 I 41 Houston 87 I 65 Los Angeles 80 I 60 Minneapolis 66 1 54 New York 61 I 57 Philadelphia 62 I 56 Phoenix 92 I 66 Seattle 60 I 51 St. Louis 73 I 54 Tampa 91 I 73 Washington 66 158 
Wednesday, October 12, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
College holds 'Knit Night' 
By SARAH VOSS 
News Wrirrr 
Needles clir.ked, f'ingers nwvnd and a fire roarPd as Saint Mary's knittnrs gath­ewd togntlwr for Knit Night Tuesday in thn WPiconw CnntPr. l>nwlopnd this year by Cat.lwrirw I>PCinmw. who works at tlw Collngn's lwalth and wPilrwss snrvic­ns, Knit Night is opnn to stu­ch~nts, fac~ulty, stall" or any­orw on campus intewstml in taking up knitting as a hobby. 
"It's so much fun for knit­tPrs to sit and knit togeth­er." l>eCI(HHH1 said. 
T h o ugh rn any i n tlw group an~ expnrienr.ed knit­ters, sonw, like f'irst ynar l>anielle Franklin. are lt~arning to knit fi1r tlw first limn. 
"My grandma knits, so I thought it'd lw sonwthing we could shaw, espnc.ially ovnr tlw holidays." fo"ranklin said, adding that slw has just lwgun work on a S(~arf. 
Snnior ldizahnth Voss started knitting a month and a half ago. Slw is r.ur­n•nt.ly working on a scarf for lwr motlwr. 
"I deridnd not to tPII my 1110111 that I'm knitting-it's going to lw a surpris(1," said Voss. 
Knitting nnthusiasts at Knit Night said that knitting provides an interesting, personal link between stu­dnnts, faculty and staff. With morn than 20 poople attnnding the event, the dub proved to have a solid following. 
"It's a vory fun group," said counseling centnr counsnlor Gina Christiana. "We all love it. It's addict­ing." 
Knitters usn the time to "sharn idnas and show ear.h otlwr what we're working on," Christiana said. 
Sophomore Anna Martirwz, who bngan knit­ting last Christmas, rncounts her time as a sear!' fan a tie. 
''l'vn ber.omc addir.tnd to tho craft. I've made several scarves, induding one for a baby," she said. 
Martinez's newest project is "a hat for !her nineel. It's supposnd to look like a pumpkin when it is fin­islwd." 
Though all thn knittnrs at Knit Night won~ enthusias­tic about knitting, some rnalizn tho possible down­sides to the craft. 
"I With I a full load of dass­ns, work and homework, it's ol'tm1 hard to find time to knit," Martinez said. 
Knitting, though growing in popularity, is not often lward of among youngnr pnopln. 
"My roommatns laugh at mn, but I've got to f'inish this sear!'," Voss said. 
Martinoz, who hopes to share knitting with her grandmother, endures tho ribbing of' hnr mother, a non-knitter. 
"My mom calls me Susie llomemaker," said Martinez. 
But despite possible drawbacks, thn knittnrs are quite enthusiastic. 
"I took my knitting to dass this week. IMy profes­sors! looked at mn funny at lirst. but I was still partici­pating in elass,'' Martinnz said. 
Though still getting the hang of' knitting, some new knitters have high hopes. 
"I love jackets, so I'm hop­ing to make a scarf for ear.h jacket. Ilopefully I'll ar.ees­sorize my whole wardrobe," Franklin said. 
Many knitters said they f'ind Knit Night, and the hobby of' knitting, to bf~ a relaxing part of their week. 
"I knit bnr.ausn it is relax­ing and it is fun to make things," said senior Allison Nichols, who began knitting last year during finals week. 
DeCleene encouraged any students, staff or faeulty to att~md Knit Nights. 
"It's great to have a diverse group of teachers, stall' and students. It's very informal and casual," she said. 
Contact Sarah Voss at svossO 1 @saintmarys.edu 
Saint Mary's art gallery features two nevv exhibits 
By MARY CONROY 
News Wrirer 

Saint Mary's Moreau Art Gallery is featuring two new art exhibits this fall in correlation with "Art 
290: Installation, Vidno and Web," a course taught by professors Krista Hoefle and Julie Tourtillotte. 
The first art exhibit, located in the Hammes Gallery, features a combination of original art pieces created by Saint Mary's studnnts enrolled in Art 290. 
"In the course, students arn exploring the themes of' space, time and the body through sitn specific installation, video used to document installation, video as an aspect of an installation, video projection and finally a virtual installation on tho internet," Hoefle said. "The exhibition is entitled "IVW Lab" because we are utilizing the spar.e not just as a presentation space of an already completed video project, but as an art lab of sorts, when1 students can experiment with installation and video projection within a gallnry setting." 
The second exhibit. lor.ated in the Little Theatre in Sister Hosaire Galleries serves crs an extension of Art 290. The exhibit was created by Survival Design, an installation team made up of husband and wife duo Jason Brown and Elizabnth Scofield. The artists, from the University of Tennnssee, usn lightweight tensile architecture and nornadi1~ sculp­tuntl forms to creatP intervnntion­ist art projer.ts. 
"Aesthetic Survival l>nviens" is the title given to their objects, which havn bnnn influnnc.ed by industrial, safety and rncrnational equiprnnnt. 
"Survival Dnsign works in urban and rural placns to temporarily altnr tlw landseapn in ordnr to question human rnlationships with the natural world." Iloefle said. 
These exhibits were elc1ctnd to be show at thn Moreau Art Gallery through the gallery board at Saint Mary's. This board is comprisnd of members of the administration, faculty, Department of Art, staff from the ofT-earn pus corn rn unity and student body. 
An exhibition must bn proposml. presented and approved by tlw board. lloefle said. An approval is based on the artwork's rehwann1 to the rn ission of' thn Mornau Art (;al!ery, and on its quality. 
Mnmbnrs of the gallnry hoard were excited about the nnw nxhibits. 
"Professor Julin Tourtillott.n and I thought that the "IVW Lab" exhi­bition would be an important introduction for tlw campus com­munity to thn thrnn-dinwnsional applications of' digital tnc:hnolo­gins," Ilonrtn said. 
Contact Mary Conroy at mconroO I @saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 12, 2005 
brings about students' learn­foreign country as much as students can and do fail challenging than study at ing so much better and they what we learn that translates courses in programs all Notre Dame, most said that
Abroad 

develop a much more secure continued from page 1 grasp of the language as they 
use it constantly while in course of study in a foreign China or Japan, and I think country, Douthwaite said, but that this confidence is reflect­many worry that what they ed in their grades." may gain culturally will cost Many students said that the them academically. frequent distractions as well 
Study in a foreign school as foreign education systems system -especially programs make it easy for CPAs to take conducted in a foreign lan­some hits while abroad. guage -coupled with the However, some study abroad challenges of adjusting to a programs take into account new cultural setting is a these challenges when decid­daunting task for many stu­ing the students' final grades dents. upon relturn. 
Tom Bogensehild, director "Notre Dame encourages us of international and off-cam­to take a course load that is pus programs, said that while larger than the typical stu­there has been no empirical dents at University of Western study of students' ability to Australia (UWA). so that also 
maintain  their  plays  into  how  
CPAs  while  hard  things  
abroad, foreign study will always come with inher­ "I think I realize, as I hope everyone  appear," said Andy Blanford, a junior engineer­ 
ent challenges. "I think the point is not that study abroad is  abroad learns, that this year should not be focused on  ing major study­ing in Perth. "On the other hand, once UWA  
necessarily 'easi­er' or 'harder' compared to ND,  tests and grades and GPAs."  decides our grades, ND will go back and  
but rather that it  recompare  our  
is totally differ­ Cailin Shannon  grades with stu­ 
ent in  terms  of  junior  dents here and at  

the way knowl­edge is passed on, assimilated and assessed," Bogenschild said. 
However, the many distrac­tions abroad -whether host families, travel itineraries or meeting foreign students ­can easily shift priorities away from study, said Cailin Shannon, who is studying in Rome. 

"I think I realize, as I hope everyone abroad learns, that this year should not be focused on tests and grades and CPAs," said Shannon, a junior architecture major. "I don't fear that my CPA will suffer at all, but if I did, I still do not think that would keep me from going out and tasting a bit of Roma." 
The difficultly level of the classes and general experi­ence vary from program to program. Many students said that non-Notre Dame pro­grams and programs conduct­ed in non-English speaking countries are more rigorous than others due to the fact that one's course of linguistic study is constant in a foreign environment. 

"It is difficult to assess the academic course load here in Moscow, or even the time I spend studying, because each and every moment seems to require that I remember a word or speak the language: when I am talking with my host mother, listening to the radio or reading signs at the metro," said Jaci Wilkening, a junior political science and Russian double major study­ing in Moscow. 
Lance Chapman, a junior who spent the spring 2005 semester in Spain, agreed. 

"Although classes in Toledo were definitely 'watered­down' relative to Notre Dame classes, the language barrier in itself was the challenging part," Chapman said. 
Lionel Jensen, chair of the East Asian Languages Department, said that the challenges of language barri­ers are the whole point of studying abroad. and even tend to improve students' grades. 
"I don't think there is a problem with CPAs abroad in non-English speaking coun­tries," Jensen said. "This 
ND and reassess 
our grade that 

will be factored into our CPA, which works to our advantage." 
In addition, some students reported that cultural differ­ences pervading the class­room can work in favor of maintaining high CPAs while abroad. 
"It wasn't as difficult in Egypt beeause the professors were more laid back. Over there, high CPAs don't really factor into getting a good job. It's more about who you know and your parents' connec­tions, so there wasn't as much of an emphasis on grades," Anne Morrison, a senior anthropology and peace stud­ies major who spent last semester in Cairo, said. 
Some students said that the professors abroad play a role in the difficulty of each par­ticular course. 
"I would say that abroad programs aren't as academi­cally challlenging as courses on campus. I really think that the professors in the abroad programs are interested in our cultural education in a into our CPA," said Tedd around the world, on occa­Hawks, an English and Film, sion," Douthwaite said. "If Television, and that is the grade Theatre double they earned, we major studying in certainly back up
"Our campus is in 

London. our partner insti­Even with South Bend, but tutions. We sup­these added our classroom is port firm grading advantages, policies and
the world. " 

many students adhere to the said that one still same strong needs to main­Julia Douthwalte commitment to tain a good work assistant provost for academics in our ethic while international
international studies 

abroad. study programs 
"If you are as we do here on wondering if campus." study abroad is a way to While students and faculty schedule yourself a 'gut' may disagree about whether semester, I assure you that or not study abroad is more 
HE CHUR..CH .A.ND 50CI)~LACTION VR..B.A.N PLUN~E) 
48 hour immersion in the sites and sounds of poverty close to home 
R..~.A.NIZIN~, POWE~ .A.ND HOPE 
Experience 6 days of the Gospel in action on the streets of Chicago 
LY C~055 M155ION IN EDUC.A.TION 
Work with the outreach and education efforts of the Congregation of the Holv Cross in Arizona 
" 


Deal with immigration and related issues on the Texas/1vlexico border 
For more information or to register online: rrp:/ / socialconcerns.nd.edu 
For information, go to: 



u/studentgroups/listing/pros 
the experience of study abroad is worthwhile. 
"If I haven't been chal­lenged as much academically here, I still have been given an opportunity to see an entirely different side of the world and have learned a lot of things that are more prac­tical, like learning how to set up travel arrangements and live on my own," Hawks said. "I've learned a lot about dif­ferent cultures and gotten a more liberal view of how our global society works." 
Contact Katie Studhldreher at kstuhldr@nd.edu 




ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, October 12, 2005 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Chinese crew blasts off for space 
JIAYUGUAN, China-Two years after China beeamn only tlw third nation to launch a human into orbit. a pair of astronauts blasted o!T Wednesday on a longer, riskier mission after receiving a farewell visit from l'rmnier Wen .liabao. 
Won said the "glorious and sacred mission" would demonstrate China's national conl'i­denen and ability. 
A roeknt carrying the Shnnzhou (, capsule and thn astronauts blasted off Wednesday from tho remotP basn in China's northwest. In a brPak with thn spacn agency's typical sncrncy, tlw launch was shown livn on Chirwse state tldnvision. 
Tlw mission, reportedly dun to last up to liv11 days, is a koy prestign projoct l'or China's communist leaders, who have justilind thn nxpnnsn of a mam111d spar:o program by say­ing that it will drivo economic dnvelopment. 
Iraqis reach deal on constitution 
HACIII>/\D, Iraq -Iraqi negotiators roadwd a hr11akthrough deal on tho consti­tution '1\wsday. and at loast ono Sunni Arab party said it would now urge its fol­lowers to approve tlw charter in this wnek­nnd's rni'Prondum. Suicide bombings and otlwr attacks killed morn than 50 people in tlrn insurgnnt campaign ainwd at intimi­dating votnrs. 
lJndnr the dnal, tho two sidos agrnnd on a nwchanism to consider amnnding thn constitution aftnr it is approv11d in Saturday's rdnrnndum. Thn next parlia­mnnt. to hn l'ornwd in Dncnmbnr, will sot up a commission to considor anwndmPnts, which would l<tt11r havP to bn approved by parlianwnt and submittml to anothnr rnl'nr­nndum. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Man beaten by police revisits scene 
NEW OHI.EANS -Hobert Davis stood at thn cornPr ol' Bourbon and Conti streets in thn Fnmeh <)uarter and starnd in disbelief at thn brown stain on thn sidewalk. 
"Is that my blood? It must bn," said the 64­ynar-old rnlired elnmnntary schoolteadwr, who was arrnsted and repeatedly punchnd by poliee ovnr thn weekend. "I didn't know I was bleeding that bad." 
The confrontation, eaptured on videotape and broadeast across the country, has put another unwanted spotlight on the belea­guered, exhausted police force in this storm­struck city. 
Three officers pleaded not guilty to chargns stemming from the ineident and the 
U.S. Justice Department opened a civil rights investigation. 
eBay blocks New York stun-gun sales 
ALBANY, N.Y. -Online auctioneer eBay Inc. will block the sale and shipment of stun guns and other illegal weapons to New York rnsidents after working with Attorney Ceneral Eliot Spitzer, it was announced Tuesday. 
In an investigation that started last year, Spitzer's oflice found that eBay users were nasily able to buy stun guns through the company's Web site. Investigators, posing as ordinary customers, bought 16 stun guns from lh different sellers on eBay. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Inmate retracts murder confession 
CIIESTI\HFIELD, Ind. -An inmate who told police he murdered f!1ur women is now retraet­ing his confession, saying hn made up the whole story in nxchangn for a visit from his mother and pictures of his children. 
Kenneth Powers Jr., 35, of Anderson, had told authorities hn killed two women in Madison County in 2000 and two others near Pensacola, Fla., in 1999. lie passed polygraph exams administernd Friday by the Indianapolis Police Dnpartrmmt, authorities said, and inves­tigators were using ground sonar equipment to search Madison County for tho bodies Tuesday. 
Co,vH'ILfD FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WlRF SERVICES  .....-~--=---·-·­ page 5 ··--·-·-=====  
PAKISTAN  

Weather stalls aid for victims 
Death toll unofficially at 35,000 as first support convoys reach ·earthquake survivors 
Associated Press 
MUZAFFARABAD lleavy rain and hail grounded helicopters and stoppnd trucks loaded with relief supplies Tuesday, imposing more misery on hungry, shivering earth­quake survivors as thn Unitml Nations warned of potentially lethal outbrnaks of measles, cholera and diarrlwa. 
Dazed, despnratn vil­lagnrs fought over food packages and lootml trucks as tho first aid ma.ehed this devastated city in thn mountains of Kashmir. The Ilimalayan region ·was hardest-hit by Saturday's magnitudn-7.6 quake. 
The Pakistani govern­mont said thn death toll !'rom Pakistan's worst quakn was about 23,000, but a senior army o!Ticial involved in the mseue opor­ations and local officials said estimates surpassed 35,000, with many bodies still buried bonmtth piles of concrete, steel and wood. Millions were left homelPss after wholn communities were flattened in tho region touching Pakistan, India and Afghanistan. 
Three days after the quake, survivors still were being pulled from the rub­ble of pancaked schools and houses by British, German, French and Chinese rescun teams. A Rod Cross oiTieial said peo­ple could survive under tho 
rubble up to five  or even  
seven days.  
A 75-year-old  woman  

and her 57-year-old daugh­ter were rescued after 80 hours in the ruins of an Islamabad apartment tower, and a teenage boy was freed in the northern town of Balakot. 
"l-Ie's alive!" rescuers shouted with joy as people gave the boy food and water and kissed him on the head. The air smelled of decomposing corpses. 
The U.N. World Food 

Program began a major airlift of emergency sup­plies, including high-ennrgy bars to feed 240,000 peo­ple. 
NATO agreed to coordi­nate an airlift of aid sup­plies from Europe. Eight 
U.S. military helicopters based in neighboring Afghanistan shuttled 16 tons of food, water, medical supplies and blankets to quake-hit zones, the mili­tary said. 
Chinook and Black Hawk choppers flew 102 relief workers and others into the region and evacuated 126 people, said Lt. Col. Jerry O'Hara, spokesman for the 
U.S. base at Bagram, Afghanistan. 
In Washington, a Pentagon spokesman said 25 to 30 more military hnli­coptors would be in Pakistan within days. The Islamabad government also roquested earthmovers, forklifts, bulldozers and trucks, spokesman Larry Di Rita said. 
The United Nations appealed for $272 million in donations, saying 2 mil­lion people were homeless. The United States pledged $50 million, Japan $20 mil­lion, Canada $17 million and Britain $3.5 million. Other nations donated more helicopters, money and supplies, ineluding tents, blankets, medical aid and food kits. 
"We as a nation arn going through a challenging Limn;" Pakistan Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz said. "We are overwhnlnwd by the support we arc getting both within thn country and outside the country and are thankful to those countries, friends and individuals who have madn our task easier." 
Tuesday's efforts were hampernd by torrential rains and hail in the moun­tains of the Pakistani side of 'Kashmir, and crates of supplies sat on tarmacs waiting to bn delivered. At least one U.S. supply heli­copter had to turn around because of a rainstorm in the mountain passes, tho military said. 

4 missing in New Hampshire flood 
Associated Press 
ALSTEAD, N.I-1.-Where Sally and Tim Canfield's home once stood, there is only open land. Their home was washed away by floodwaters, and two days after the rains sub­sided, their family found no trace of them. 
Rescue crows and police dogs searched rivers and woods Tuesday for the Canfields and two others missing in New Hampshire after a weekend of heavy downpours that left at least 10 people dead from Maine to Pennsylvania. 
"We didn't find any bodies," said a brother-in-law, Rick Mason, who spent time with crews looking for the Canlields. "First there was Katrina, then there was the earthquake, but this is pretty devastating right here." 
At least one of those missing in New Hampshire, a 67 -year-old kayaker, was feared dead. 
Gov. John Lynch said the floods were the worst the state had experi­enced in a quarter-century, and he sought a federal disaster declara­tion. Teams from the Federal Emergency Management Agency were expected to arrive later this week. 
In Greenfield, Mass., where floods wrecked 40 trailers in a mobile home park, the mayor said repairs would cost more than $1 million. The flooding damaged a bridge and a dam, washed out a road, cracked sewer mains and left at least 70 rnsi­dents homeless, Mayor Christine Forgey said. 
She declared a state of emergency and said she also would need statn and federal hnlp. "There is no way we could foot this bill," she said. 
From Friday evening through Sunday, storms dumped as mueh as 10 inches of rain on New England and the mid-Atlantie states. In New Hampshire, Hinsdale got 10.8 inches and Keene 10.5. 
Just as the region began to dry out, forecasters warned that there could bP another of llooding if rain­fall exceeded the 1 to 2 inches expected through Wednesday. 
Wednesday, October 12, 2005 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Service 
continued from page 1 
Brandenberger of the Center for Social for Social Concerns, more than 96 percent of the student body; male and female, report­ed volunteering during high school. 
"Students across the nation actually believe that their vol­unteer opportunities will decrease when then attend col­lege, possibly since they are unaware of available options. But over 85 percent of ND stu­dents do find a way to engage in service or service-learning dur­ing their college years," Brandenberger said. 
Despite the fact that a signifi­cant percentage of the student body is active in community service work, those who par­take in service opportunities at the University may notice the gender breakdown of the volun­teers tends to be predominantly female. 
Sophomore volunteer Katie Miller is one of several students who will volunteer in Appalachia during fall break. Miller said that there were 14 women and only four men in her Appalachian volunteer group. 
"Maybe [guys] don't feel com­fortable with the programs being offered. If [Notre Dame] offered more programs that guys are interested in, they would get more involved," Miller said. 
Miller felt that men may not be interested in the opportuni­ties to volunteer in nursing homes, soup kitchens and cloth­ing stores, and instead they may be more prone to volunteer in a situation that required more manual labor. 
"I would like to see more men involved, but I think it is great that girls are making such a strong stand," Miller said. 
However, Circle K president Eli Mims finds that her service group has an equal number of men and women volunteers. Although she does not have spe­cific numbers for the actual vol­unteers, the ·circle K board is made up of four men and four women. 
"I think that men and women who are devoted to service reflect a portion of the popula­tion that does service because they feel responsible to give back to their communities," Mims said. "It doesn't seem that men and women are socialized to feel more or less responsible in this respect." 
Habitat for Humanity co-pres­ident Ryan Iafigliola said that, for the most part, his volunteers are equally split between gen­ders. 
Last weekend 30 men and 31 women worked on the project house. For the fall break project "Blitz Build," 37 men and 21 women will partake. 
"I think generally that it can be true that we have an appeal that extends readily to men; however, as I was working at the site on Saturday that ratio would be reversed," Iafigliola said. 
He also pointed out that the current construction coordina­tor is a female, but has been a male in the past. The Habitat board is comprised of six men and eight women, which is rep­resentative of the gender statis­tics in volunteer work. 
The Family Liaison Committee that works directly with the family that the house is being build for is predominantly women. Iafigliola suggest this may be due to the fact that the leaders of the eomrriittee are all women. 
The attempt to attract volun­teers is not done by coordina­tors in a way that would target either gender, organizers said. 
"The Center for Social Concerns consistently evaluates and explores means to attract both genders. No one strategy is sufficient," Brandenberger said. "We do not select students for participation based on gender; in other words, for the great majority of our work, we are gender-blind in selection." 
Iafigliola does not actively recruit for Habitat for Humanity; rather he lets others know what he is about by set­ting up tables. to share informa­tion. Habitat has no prerequi­sites for volunteers and always welcomes new rriembers. 
O'Hara posts volunteer oppor­tunities in the monthly Class of 2008 e-mails and sets up tables in the dining hall, methods which do not attempt to attract one gender more than the other. 
"I know a lot of guys are very committed to service, it just seems girls are more commit­ted," she said. "I think it might be that girls are more pro­active and girls are more moth­erly." 
According to the CSC, the number of female volunteers tends to outweigh male volun­teers not just at Notre Dame, but also on a national level. 
"I think guys will do events through their dorms, but might not go as far as going to the esc to look for opportunities. Situations like these are not unique to Notre Dame," Iafigliola said. 
Still, O'Hara said as long as the project is done to help peo­ple, the service is being accom­plished. 
"Gender might only be impor­tant in cases like the zoo, where little kids feel the need to hang out with someone of their same gender," O'Hara said. "[Gender breakdown] might also be more important depending on the nature of the project such house building or manual labor." 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 


' 
'
L 




G AT LIFESTYLE 
Turtle Creek Aartments 

A<jjacent to Campus! 
Rernodeled Apartments Available 
www.campuscribs.net 
1.866.395.42~)1 

171 0 Turtle Creek DrivE~ South Bend, IN 

CLOSEST TO CAMPUS 

The bright orange closet drew some stares, smirks

Closet 
and laughter from students continued from page 1 passing by. Still, organizers 
said they were surprised by ing anyone in the closet sex­the amount of positive feed­ually to come out in front of back they received. all these people if they don't "I expected more people to 
want to.  But it  ignore me," said  
serves a  great  senior  Jim  
purpose to show what its  "/ wanted to create  Fobert, a ber of  mem­the  
like for  a  gay  an actual closet  Standing  
person to come out in an atmosphere like Notre  this year, to give people the isolating effect ofbeing in a  Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. Fobert was  
Dame. It's a testament of support to the gay communi­ closet and then really immersing into a new world  handing out fly­ers to students passing by and asking them to  
ty." Organizers  that is accepting. "  come out of their closets.  
said very few students actu­ Alex Re1nfro  "No said  one has anything  
ally  used  the  event organizer  negative  

closet to declare their sexuality. Instead, gay and straight stu­dents alike used it as a means to express a unique or humorous aspect of them­selves. 
Juniors Afiya Wilkins and John Lowe came out of the closet together, announcing that they were "huge [singer] Ashlee Simpson fans." 
Other 'coming out' topics included ''I'm a person who loses their I.D. all the time,'' ''I'm an Alliance ND groupie" and ''I'm coming out as total­ly straight." 
In years past, a door frame was used to represent the act of coming out of the closet. But this year, Renfro decided to make create a mammoth 6-by-4-by-8-foot real-life closet. The philosophy major managed the job with help from a friend. 
"I merely imagined the form and created it. I got a blueprint from my roommate whose dad is a homebuilder," Renfro said. "I wanted to create an actual closet this year, to give people the iso­lating effect of being in a closet and then really immersing into a new world that is accepting." 
r----------~-------; 
: VERA RRADLEY : 
1 20% off with ND/SMCStu.l.D. 1 
I I 
, ' E;;st Bank 
Emporium Restaurant Btdg. 121 S. Ni!.es;\ve., (574} 232-&488 
L --... 
they've been 
telling me it's a 
great idea," he 
said. 
Some dissenters chose to 
remain silent. Second year 
Jaw students Ryan Bradel 
and Patrick Roach chose not 
to pick up Fobert's pink fly­
ers as they walked into South 
dining hall. They said they 
were dissatisfied with not 
only the event, but also the 
goal it was 1/rying to achieve. 
"The agf{llda is misplaced," 
Bradel satd. "You can't ask a 
Catholic university in good 
conscience to tolerate this. If 
I was a parent, bringing my 
kid here, I would not be 
pleased. It looks like ND is 
tolerating a radical agenda." 
Roach said the event was ·not consistent with Catholic Church teaching. 
"The Church recognizes 
that it's a struggle and that it 
is not something to be proud 
of," Roach said. "If I had 
another kind of disorder I 
wouldn't walk around being 
happy and proud of it." 
For freshman Dave Leach, 
the closet and the honesty it 
promoted were unexpected 
but pleasing. 
"Coming from a high school 
where it [homosexuality] is 
kept under wraps, I think it's 
a good thing when people 
can bring out their sexuali­
ty," Leach said. ''I'm fine with 
it. I won't participate, but I 
support anyone who does." 
Contact Mary Kate Malone at 
mmalone3@nd.edu 


~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----~-----­
Wnln~sday, October 12, 2005 
MARKET RECAP 

Dow 

10,253.17 +14.41
}ones 
A 

Up: Same: Down: Composite Volum 1,247 
153 ~ 2,30 '·720,230 
AMEX 1.652.97 +1.90 NASDAQ 2,061.09 -17.X3 NYSE 7,380.81 -4.76 s&PSOO I, I X4.H7 -2.46 NIKK£1(Tokyo) 13,556.71 0.00 ffif IOO(London) 5,3H0.70 +6.20 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ)  -0.50  -0.19  37.9•  
MICROSOFT CP (MSFT)  -0.20  -0.05  24.4  
JDS UN I PHASE CP ODSU)  -5.61  -0.12  2.0:  
CISCO SYS INC (CSCO)  -1.72  -0.30  17.1'  
ORACLE CORP (ORCL)  +0.58  +0.07  12.01  
Treasuries  
30-YEAR BOND  +0.46  +0.21  45.91  
10-YEAR NOTE  +0.53  +0.23  43.8·  
5-YEAR NOTE  +0.64  +0.27  42.6:  
3-MONTH BILL  +0.76  +0.27  35.61  
Commodities  
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.)  + 1.73  63.53  
GOLD ($/Troy oz.)  +0.03  479.8C  
PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.)  -1.85  94.6C  
Excha  Rates  
YEN  114.56()(  
EURO  0.833'  
POUND  0.5721  
CANADIAN$  1.176  

IN BRIEF 
Delphi gets $950 million from loan 
NI·:W YOHK -A judgn on Tuesday approved llw usn of' $950 million in financing f'or auto supplier Dnlphi Corp., which is expected to consolidate or divest a significant portion of' its U.S. plants during its stay in bankruptcy eourt. 
That sum is part of' a $2 billion debtor-in­possession loan assnmblml by a consortium of' ltHHinrs lml by .I .I'. Morgan Chaso & Co. and Citigroup (;Iobal Marknts Inc., which will lwlp tlin company opnratn during its bank­ruptcy, nxpnctPd to end in narly 2007. 
llnlphi lawyPrs said tlw company would n1wd only $5h5 million until tlw next financ­ing !waring on Oct. 27, but that a "cushion" was nect~ssary. 
At Tunsday's !waring, U.S. Bankruptcy .Judge Holwrt Drain also said he would nxtend an ordPr allowing Dnlphi to continue paying Pmploynes' salarit~s and benefits. l>nlphi has about 7,500 nmploynns in Indiana, conenntrated in Kokomo and Anderson. 
A temporary order to do so had been granted on Saturday, when tlw auto supplier lilml f'or Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection !'rom ITPditors. 
Dollar still rising against Euro 
BI·:HI.IN -Tlw dollar rose against the 12­nation nuro f'or a third day Tuesday amid uncPrtainty about a nnw (;nrman government that is stwn as unliktdy to push through radi­cal rnf'orm of' l~uropn's biggnst neonomy. 
Tlw 12-nation currPncy bought. $l.IIJIJ3 in latn NPw York trading, down l'rom $1.2057 in Nnw York latn Monday. 
l~conomists arP skPptical about prospeets for f'aslPr growth in Cnrmany af'tnr conserva­livP lnadPr Angtda Mnrktd was f'orcnd into talks with outgoing Chant:nllor Cnrhard Srilroednr's r.nntl'r-lef't Social Dnmocrats about. formation ol' a "grand coalition." Nt>itlwr sidn snrurnd a majority in a Sept. I X PltH'lion. 
Tlw two parties, <;nrmany's higgnst.. agnwd Monday to OJHHI f'ormal coalition t.alks that would put. MnrkPI in tlw chanrellnry, but. shn will havn night. Social l>omocratic ministnrs and liknly will havP t.o sol'tnn lwr plans for rnform. 

Tl-..1 E OBSERVER 




USINESS 
page 7 

RealN etworks, Microsoft settle 
Digital business competitors come to terms, ending Bill Gates' latest antitrust case 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE -A broad set­
tlement between digital 
nwd ia piontHH" 
HnaiNetworks Inc. and its 
longtime f'on Microsof't 
Corp. gons a lot l'urthnr 
than simply nnding thn last 
major U.S. anlitrust caso 
against tho toch !wavy­
weight. 
The deal also aims to 
lw I p the two co m pan i(~ s 
better compete against 
Appln Computor Inc.. in the 
increasingly important 
busirwss of' online audio 
and video. 
Tho sottlnnwnt starts 
with a $4h0 million cash 
payment that settles all 
anlitrust disputes world­
wido that HnalNetworks 
had against Microsof't. 
HeaiNetworks also gets 
$:~<l1 million in cash and 
sorvicos-including pro­
motion on Microsof't Web 
sites and the sortware 
giant's instant-messaging 
snrvien -that are designed 
to help its products reach a 
wider audience. 
''I'm eager to begin work­
ing together with the team and a $750 million truce Microsoft's direct competi­Both Gates and Glaser 
at Microsoft," the compa­with America Online, part tors in digital music and said Tuesday that they 
ny's chief executive, Hob of Time Warner Inc., in video but has increasingly believe consumers would 
Glaser, said during a joint 2003. struggled against its mas­prt~fer a service that's morn 
appearance with his former Seattle-based sive local rival. flexible than Apple's dosed 
boss and longtime nemesis, HeaiNctworks sued Both companies also system. which makes songs 
Microsoft Chairman Bill Microsoft in December have found it exceptionally purchased from its iTunes 
Gates. 2003, aecusing it of illegally tough to compete against service directly trans­
The deal is the latest in a forcing Windows users to digital music's juggernaut: ferrable only onto its iPod peace of'l'ensive Mierosof't accept Microsoft's digital Apple's iPod digital musk and some cell phones. has launched in recent media player. player and iTuncs online "Apple does great prod­years, following an RealNetworks said its play­music store and jukebox ucts, but at thn end of' the antitrust settlement with er sufTnrnd as a result. software. day we think consumers the U.S. Justice HealNctworks also had Indeed, Glaser said he want. ehoien, consumers Department. The peace­participated in European initiated talks with Gatf~S a want openness," Glasnr making has cost the cash­Union and Koman antitrust little more than a year ago, said. rich company several bil­complaints against after his company launclwd Jo1~ Wileox, an analyst lion dollars but also led to Mierosof't, but withdraws a service-without Apple's with Jupitnr Hnsnarch, said better eooperation with from those eases as part of permission-that aimnd to tlw partnership will help some formerly bittnr rivals. the agreement. allow songs purchased HealNetworks and 
In July, Microsoft rmu:hnd Founded by. Glaser in through Heal's onlino musk Mierosoft com pete against an $850 million dmtl with 11JIJ4 arter he quit services to bo playt~d on the tlw iPod, but likPiy won't International Business Microsoft, Heal was among iPod. The move came af'tPr put them in the lead. Machines Corp. That f'ol­the first companies to ofl'er HcalNetworks complained "Art~ tlwy going to knock lowed a $1.(, billion settln­an online music player. that Apple was rebuf'fing Appln out of' the sky? No ment with Sun The company has for attempts to form an ehanee. Not anytime soon, Micrusystems lnt:. in 2004 years bonn one of alliance. anyway," Wilcox said. 


ExxonMobil pollution leads to fines 
capacity. The public has 30 days to supports the t:ontimwd tmnd of omis­
Associated Press 
comment before the agnwnwnts can sion rNiuetions" at its rdinnrins. She 
WASIIINC;T<>N -ExxonMobil Corp. bn approved by the courts. said ExxonMobil dnnins any elaims will spnnd an estimated $571 million Under the settlnmnnt. annual emis­that it violated any laws or regula­f'or pollution controls at seven oil sions of add rain-eausing sulfur diox­tions. relinnries in a settlement with the gov­ide arn to be cut by 42,000 tons and With ·ow settlenwnt. orw in a string ernment and throe states over alleged thosn of smog-f'orming nitrogm1 oxides of such actions. almost 77 pereent of' violations ol' dnan air laws. arn to be reduced by 11,000 tons. tlw nation's domnstk mlining capacity 
The company also will pay fines lmprovmnnnts also are required for now opnrates under a 1:onsnnt dncrno totaling $X.7 million and spend $9.7 dnteeting lmtks. minimizing tho flaring with government to nnfon:n dean air million to retrofit city buses, restore of hazardous gasns, cutting pollution laws. coastal habitat in Louisiium and spon­f'rom sulf'ur reeovnry plants and han­"That will load t.o rnduetions of' morn sor other environmental projocts (lling benzene wastns. than :ll !i.OOO tons of pollutants annu­around the n~lineries. ExxonMobil, basnd in Dallas, agreed ally f'rom the 17 rnlining nHnpanies 
Thn settltmwnt aims to n~dueo annu­to the settlement without tho govern­that have agrnnd to c.onw into compli­al omissions of toxins that can cause ment filing suit so it eould nxpand fuel anee," said Grant.a Nakayama, I\ I'A's rnspiratory problnms and worsnn production in eomplianen with tho assistant administrator in dwrgn of' eases of' eh i I d hood asthma, tlw Clean Air Act. Thrne states that joined tlw OITice of l~nforeenwnt and 1\nvironmnntal l'rotm:tion Agency and in the settlmnent -Illinois, Louisiana Complianee Assuranen. Justi1:n Department said Tuesday. and Montana-will share the civil Thn afTnt:tnd ExxonMohil rnfirwrios 
Thn n~linnries eovnrnd in two eon­penalties. are located in Baton Bougo, La.; sent deernns film! in f'ndnral courts in Prem Nair, a spoknswoman for Baytown and Bnaumont, Texas; Chicago and l.al'ayottn, La., rnpn~sont ExxonMobil, said the settlmnent "is in Billings, Mont.; Chalnwtte, La.; Joliet, I I pnrennt of' tlw nation's rnf'ining the bost intnrnst of the mmpany and Ill.; and Torrance, Calif. 

page 8 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 12, 2005 
Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
Jenkins said the University would survey students this year about undergraduate research and then formulate recommen­dations on how to enhance the level of participation. 
He also noted the existence of academic honesty problems nationwide. 
"Notre Dame is not immune to this epidemic," Jenkins said. "We will explore ways to addmss the issue at a University-wide level ... We must not look the other way." 
To build the graduate program, Jenkins said his administration would emphasize hiring "truly distinguished faculty" and build­ing infrastructure for the science, engineering and quantitative social science departments to achieve "a goal of $100 million in externally sponsored research funding." 
Under the leadership of vice president of the graduate school Jefl' Kantor-who will step down at the end of the academic year -research awards to the University have increased 15 per­cent annually, reaching levels higher than $81 million, Jenkins said. 
A'i with the issue of undergrad­uate education, Jenkins said his administration would research ways to better assess the progress of Notre Dame's gradu­ate program. Provost Thomas Burish recently formed a commit­tee to study administrative struc­tures of the oversight of 1-,rraduate research at the University. 
Jenkins' third point, the impor­tance of promoting diversity, has been a frequently-discussed topic at Notre Dame in recent years. 
"Every strong university in this country is committed to enhanc­ing the diversity of its student body, staff and faculty," Jenkins said. "But we at Notre Dame 
have a deeper rationale for embracing diversity and multicul­turalism. We believe every human being has been made in God's image, and every culture reflects God's grandeur." 
While he said efforts to pro­mote diversity needed to increase, Jenkins stressed the importance of recognizing the progress made under University President Emeritus Father Edward Malloy's administration. 
He cited statistics about faculty diversity, highlighting Notre Dame's better-than-average growth in Hispanic faculty mem­bers while also noting the lower­than-average increases in African-American and Asian­American faculty members when compared to other universities ranked in the top 20. 
These specific trends carry over to the student body, Jenkins said. But he said the overall situation is improving.· 
"The current first year class includes the largest percentage of total ethnic minority representa­tion in Notre Dame's history, and we are hopeful that these increases in the diversity of the student body will continue for future classes," Jenkins said. 
Jenkins said his administration would seek ways to increase the diversity of students and faculty, to improve on the retention of minority and women faculty and to help the new Afficana Studies department flourish. 
The University Committee on Cultural Diversity has been "reconstituted and reconvened," said Jenkins, who will also meet with a student advisory group throughout the year "to seek ways in which the diversity or our student life can be enhanced." 
Jenkins shifted gears to the topic of Notre Dame's Catholic character, something he believes is "a genuine academic strength." 
"It identifies the tradition that gives direction and depth to our work at the University," Jenkins said. "It enables us to attract strong students and faculty." 
Notre Dame's Catholic mission sets it apart from other schools, Jenkins said, and is an opportuni­ty "to move forward." 
"Notre Dame was founded with a religious character," Jenkins said. "Its statutes state it should retain this character in perpetu­ity. It is a priority of mine to keep this distinctive character strong." 
The percentage of Catholic fac­ulty at Notre Dame has been steadily declining, Jenkins said. In the 1970s, the percentage was near 85 percent. In 1984, it was 62 percent. The percentage is currently 53 percent, Jenkins said. 
While Jenkins said he wanted to "confirm, emphatically, the contribution of non-Catholic fac­ulty" to Notre Dame, he said Catholic faculty offered certain unique characteristics. 
"A Catholic faculty member brings valuable attributes to this core enterprise," Jenkins said. "She ideally brings a faith com­mitment with some intellectual formation which allows her to relate issues in her discipline to beliefs, practices and unresolved questions in the Catholic tradi­tion." 
Jenkins also noted the necessity of Catholic faculty members given the global nature of the Church and their role as participants in the campus liturgical and spiritu­al life. 
He said he would work with academic leaders to attract "highly qualified" Catholic candi­dates for teaching positions. 
Jenkins' final point of discus­sion dealt with fiscal issues at the University. 
"We realize our high aspira­tions will require shrewd man­agement of our fiscal resources and sound allocation of those resources in aceordance with our priorities," he said. 
Jenkins showed a series of slides with graphs of the University's financial data from the past decade, noting especially "Notre Dame is unique in that department has contributed $107 the increased importance of the its athletic department revenues million to the academy, Jenkins endowment -which has shifted cover all athletic expenses," said. It was also responsible for a from 10 to 18 percent of the total Jenkins said. "In addition, the $219 million growth in non-ath­revenue in the past 10 years -athletic department contributes a letic fmancial aid endowments. and the importance of the athletic significant amount to the acade­department to the University's my." Contact Maddie Hanna at financial situation. In the past decade, the athletic mhannal@nd.edu 

II II 





JIM CAVIEZEL 
Star of 




ji1n Caviezel will be participating in the rosary and speaking on his spiritual journey on 
Thursday, October 13 6:45pm at the Grotto 
(Rain Location: Washington Hall) 
'!l'@j!!l'!ifu@!illil)-=··w-~-,= --··&H@lN%; wh;Je you were out
..........
FYI 




the campus store nff: ca:rnpusru 
located in the Martin's Supermarket Plaza 1 block east of Turtle Creek Apartments 
243-4197 


Wednesday, October 12, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
Sound a music major can love. At a price a finance major can appreciate. 


Bose SoundDock™ digital music system. Enjoy Bose® sound in your room while charging your iPod, iPod mini or iPod photo. Louis Ramirez of The Washington Post says it "delivers crisp, room-filling sound with nice bass that doesn't distort at high volume." 

Bose Companion® 3 computer speaker system. A unique circular control pod, two tiny speakers and a hideaway Acoustimass® module (not shown) give your music files sound that Mac Home says "is a shock to all who underestimate it." 
Bose Wavelll> music system. CNET says it "improves upon the original in both design and performance." Plays MP3 COs, includes FMIAM tuner/alarm clock and fits easily in a dorm or apartment. Jonathan Takiff of The Philadelphia Daily News says, "crank it up loud and this little jack is a giant killer. .. " 
To order or learn more, call today 
1-800-576-1942 
For more information 
www.bose.com/school 
Bose@ sound for the way you listen. 
Whether it's music on your iPod~ your computer or MP3 COs ­there's a Bose system for the way you listen. Get more of the passion of a guitar solo and the pulse of the rhythm section­even at full volume. 
Special savings and student discounts. 
These systems are factory-renewed products that are available at a reduced price. Each factory­·renewed product has been re-tested, meets our strict quality standards and comes with a full warranty. Combine that with a student-only discount, and you can get bonus savings on Bose sound. 
® 

~ 
. . . 
' 
---------------, 
THE OBSERVER 







IEWPOINT

page 10 Wednesday, October 12, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
Tlu lntkp~ndlfllt, Daily Nt!wrpapn-Sen~ing Notre Dame llnJ Saint Mary's 
Living Shepard's legacy 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds 
Ass1: MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR: Mike Gilloon 
SCENE EDITOR: Rama Gottumukkala SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning 
CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.cdu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

('574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

THE 0BSERVERONL/NE 
www.ndsmcDbserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNorre Dame duLac and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on conrenr. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edirors and. department edirors. C'.ommentaries, lerrers and columns present rhe views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
PoST OFFICE INFORMATION 
rhc <)hscrvcr (USPS 'l99 2-400[)} i~ published Munday through Friday except during cxam.u1J V,lCatiun periods. A ~uhM:ripciun ru The Ob~avcr i.~ $100 fur nne acadcmk yct~r; $55 1;1r one !>cmcsrcr. 
Tht· Ohscrvcr is publi~het.l ;u: POSTMASTER 
Olq Snurh Dining J-1.1ll Send <iddt<:S~ corrections ro: 
Num: D.unc, IN 46S%-0779 'l11c Ohscrvcr 
1\:riodk.tl poMo~gc paid :u Nurre: D;~mc P.O. Box 779 

Jnd Jddilion.tl mJilin~ ullicC!>. 024 South Dining H.~ll 
Nl)lrc Dame. IN 46'556-0n9 
Tlu: Oh:.crvcr i.\ a mcmht·r ofthe A'i.~tx:iarcd Pre.~ All rcpmdm:riun rights arc r~rvcd. 
TooAv's STAFF 
News Sports 
Kate Antonacci Kate Gales Lisa Schultz Ken Fowler Joe Piarulli Fran Tolan 
Viewpoint Scene Alyssa Ram a Brauweiler Gottumukkala Graphics Brian Doxtader Kelly MacDonald 
Today is the anniversary of an American tragedy that reminds us of an American problem. The problem of hate and intolerance still plagues our nation and our communities. Today­the seventh anniver­sary of Matthew Shepard's murder­reminds us, espe­cially those who would consider themselves on the side of an issue ­sexism, racism, ageism, classism, heterosexism, et,c. ­that when thoughts turn to outward hate and violence, we must examine the roots of hate and commit ourselves to uprooting them in our hearts and communities. 
Matthew Shepard is no longer here to tell his story. The living, with their own intentions, emotions and rflactions now shape his li!'e and legacy. Shepard was a brilliant young man; he spoke Arabie, French and German fluently, attended two years or high school in Switzerland, and wanted to go into international politics. lie came from an all'f1uent background and conveyed it in his stylish dress. He had family and many friends who loved him. Shepard had his own problems, which are f'or those closest to him to expound upon. llo was gay and out sinee high sehool, and in little Laramifl, Wyo., everyone knew it. 
Shepard's killers were his opposite in many ways. Russell IlendP.rson and Aaron McKinney lived in the low­income section of' Laramie. Both young men-21-year-olds at the time of the murder -had violence and drugs in their histories. They did not have a life 

Kamaria Porter 
K-Mart's Blue Light Special 
to be envied like Shepard -no direc­tion and little money, not even to buy their beer the night of the murder. The collision of Shepard, McKinney and Henderson is painted in so many lights: hate crime, robbery and drug daze. The brutality of the murder-Matthew Shepard's skull was crushed and he was tied like an animal to a fence to die in the cold -makes my stomach turn no matter the motivation. 
Hate is the only word to describe the aftermath of Shepard death. The defendants claimed "homosexual panic" as an argument. Anti-gay activists protested Shepard's funeral and were present throughout the trial, declaring he was in hell. An active website "memorializes" Shepard by keeping a tally of the days Shepard has "been in hell." This hate that is well documented is the type we need to be concerned with. People with no person­al connection to either party felt com­pelled by their ideas to dedare a mur­dered young person to be in hell. People with no connection to Shepard felt the need to interrupt his funeral, a thing so sacred that something as secu­lar as traffic stops for mourners. What does this say about their respect for the dead and their families? What does this say about our society? Nothing good. 
October 1998, I probably did not pay much attention to Matthew Shepard's death. In those days, my attitude towards gay people was indifferent at best. I did not care what people did as long as I did not have to see or hear about it. Anything to do with the gay community was not my concern. In October 1998, I would not have even donned one of the infamous orange shirts. 
In 2002, a young man was harassed at my high school. His classmates wrote a homosexual slur on him in the locker room. I do not know the orienta­tion of this young man, but that does not mattPr-the aet was wrong and it rocked my indifference. 
NP-w sensibilities probably led to watching films about the lives and deaths of young gay people Matthew Shepard and Brandon Teena. Seeing those stories whipped me around quickly; the struggles of my sisters and brothers -even the gay ones -would be mine ton. Also, my own background, coming from legacies of black men and women who faced hate openly from segregation and who cried over lynched and dragged loved ones like Emmett Till and James Byrd Jr., forced me to care and to be a straight ally. 
Matthew Shepard was not perfect, a saint or a martyr. Martyrs choose to die to make a point, and saints are not around on the day-to-day. Shepard was a young kid likn many of us trying to figure out this strange world. Young mPn cut his journey short with hate in their hearts. 
What Shepard leaves us is not a "gay agenda" or simply another cry for another law to say that murder is wrong. Shepard leaves with us a call to take the hate out of our own hearts to make this nation safe for people to be themsPlvos no matter whom they love, to take tlw hato out or our hearts so it is not permissiblfl to defend murdflr with "homosexual panic;" to take thP hate out of our lwarts to give pause to thoso that would protPst a funeral. To take the hate out of' our hearts, period. 
Kamaria Porter is a senior history major. She can be contacted at kporter@n d. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obserl'er. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
What are you looking 




Submit aLetter 
foward to the most 
"Following Ihe light of the sun, we left the old world." 

about USC weekend? 
Christopher Columbus explorer 



:tothe Editor at 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. 
'I www.ndsmcobserver.com 

at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
THE 0HSERVER 





IEWPOINT
Wednesday, October 12, 2005 page 11 
Of Ray Siegfried, Mark Roche and the child we once were 
This Monday's l"uneral Mass for Notrn Dame trustee Hay Siegfried was a hnautil"ul and inspiring cele­bration of his lifo. Life was very prc­dous to Hay-the livns of" the adults and childrnn hn encountered every Anthony J. day, and the lives of Lauinger thosn childron not yet horn. As lw was Guest a great l"rinnd or Column Our Lady's University, he was also a wonderful ddnnder of the unborn child. lin ol"ten said that it was his daily visits to tlw grotto that got him through Notre Dame, and it was no doubt that same d<wotion to the Blessnd Mother that helped him see with such elarity that thorn is sonwthing terribly wrong about adults killing hnlpless children in tlw womb to solve our own problems. 
On Tuesday, Oct. I I. Hay Siegl"ried was laid to rest in tlw cmnetery here on tlw campus of" Notrn Damn. 
Oet. I I was also. coincidentally, the first annivnrsary of the publication of a guest editorial by another membnr of the Notre Dame l"amily, Dean Mark Hodw of tlw Col111ge of Arts and Letters. II is op-ed appeared in The Nnw York Times, less than a month before tho 2004 presidential nlnetion. 
My purpose here is not to be per­sonally critical of Dean Hoche. What lw wrote could have been written by countless other supporters of candi­dates who defend legal elective abor­tion. My purpose, rathnr, is to offer, in charity, a gentle illustration of why what he wrote is so damaging and so mistaken. 
The sentence which was especially ofTensive, given our obligation to pro­teet the weak, the defenseless, the least among us, read as follows: "Those who view abortion as the most significant issue in this campaign may well want to supplement their abstract desire for moral rectitude with a more realistic rocus on how best to ensure that fewer abortions take place." 
The above quote betrays a grave misunderstanding or the pro-life cause. It is a desire to save human lives that motivates those who defend the right to lire. There is nothing "abstract" about the tragedy of the 45 million unborn babies who have been legally killed in our country since the inl"amous Hoe v. Wadn deeision of" 1973. 
Ilaving been deeply distressed for the past year by the misguided think­ing embodied in the op-ed, I resolved during Hay Siegfried's funeral Mass to respond. It's what he would have done: Say what needs to be said. 
My wife Phyllis and I sent all eight of our children to Notre Dame because of the Catholic values which Our Lady's University unambiguously upholds. My confidence in that assumption was shaken, however, when I read Dean Hoehn's column of last Oct. 11. 
A true story may help illustrate why opposition to abortion is much more than an "abstract desire for moral rectitude." I heard a woman call a radio show one day. Long ago, she said, she had had an abortion. Through the years that followed, she suffered greatly from the grief that resulted from realizing she had killed her baby. The pain she felt over her unborn child never went away. 
Paradoxically, through those inter­vening years, she continued to be 
"pro-choice." Every woman should 
have the right to get an abortion, she 
believed. 
Years later she met someone she wanted to marry. But she felt she first needed to tell him about the awful burden she had carried all those years. When she told him about the baby she had aborted, he asked her a single question: "Would you have had the abortion had it not been legal?" 
"Well, or course not," she answered. 
"Those words had no sooner left my mouth," she told the radio-show host, "than -it hit me like a ton or bricks how ~rong I h_ad ~.eon all those years to be pro-choice. 
She went on to explain that, by espousing the view that abortion should be a legal option, available for those who want it, she had cavalierly consigned other women to the same anguish, the same misery that she had experienced as a result of her own abortion. By her "pro-choice" attitude, she had enabled, condoned, endorsed the decisions or other women to abort their children, and thus shared the responsibility for those deaths. 
Many in our society today do, in fact, equate what is legal with what is right. Many superficially conclude that anything the law approves must, therefore, be ethical. 
What the caller suddenly realized, as she answered her fiancee's ques­tion, is that the law is a teacher. It is the function of law to educate, to guide, to teach those in a civilized society how we should treat fellow members of our human family. 
Abortion is not a matter of private morality, but a matter of public morality, because abortion violates the most fundamental right of another human being-the inalienahln right to life itself, with which we arn each endowed by our Creator. 
It is not enough to be "personally opposed" to abortion but "pro-choice" -because abortion is not a vietimless act. Each time an abortion is per­formed, a child dies. 
Hay Siegfried helped us appreeiate that ract by championing the dnf'ensn of the unborn child during his lil"n­time. lie knew that Notr·11 Dame, Our Mother, was first the mother of" God ­the mother of" llim Who, when lie came to us, chose to do so as an unborn Child. Why did lie eomn that way? What was lie teaching us, if not the sacred ness of motlwrhood and tlw value of the tire or a ('.hild waiting to be born? 
Will we reject the child in the womb. the way the innkeeper at Bethlehem did? Hay Siegl"ried didn't.. lie understood dearly that nveryone, from the monHmt of conception, is created in the image and likeness of the Christ Child. 
Thank you for your wonderful example, Hay. May it continue to inspire us to do what you would have done. And may you rest in peace. 
Tony Lauinger o.f Tulsa, Okla. was a lifelong .friend o.f Ray Siegfried. 1/e and his wife, Phyllis W /,auinger, are the parents o.f six Notre /Jame gradu­ates and two current students. Tony is vice-president o.f the National Right to Life Committee. 
The views expressed in this column are those o.f the author and not neces­sarily those o.f The Observer. 

U-WIRE 
•

Call for equal rights even marriage 
To tlw honorable Hogor Wicker, my mother's pas­tor. that girl in soriology dass. Undo Michael and the middle-agP<Irnan who approached me on a lwnrh outside Walgrenns: 
I really don't know if" I can talk about the "mar­riagn isstw" with you anymore. 
I can't always articulate my Sarah thoughts eloarly in 1wrson. As with Kear many poople, my tondoncy is to ho almost pathologically diplomatic, Uniuersity of so as much as possiblo I avoid Mississippi hoart-wr<1nching anncdotos, moral Daily platitudns and passionate Mississippian l"irnstorms. For the most part, pen­pi<~ only hear how I font about issues of sexuality through tlwir own terms and frames, in a polite con­vc1rsational tono that legitimizes every position by suggosting it may actually bo worthy of" civil debate. 
That would be appropriate if" this were just anotll­er politkal issue. For you, it is. You discuss it the same way you do the Endangored Species Act and campaign finance rnform. 
But that's prorisoly what is so frustrating; this is not simply a political issue, and evory time we talk I wish I eould play Ghost of" Christmas Past, and show you tlw sufToring so you could begin to understand it. 
I have nnvor had any soeial or logal limitations placod on me because I l"ell in love. llowovnr, I have seen tho nffoets of thoso limitations on others: facing harassnwnt at sehool and at work, feeling horrible pain and snlr-hatrml from the realization process, hoing rorcod into a subculture and out of" ehurch, not lwing allowod into the hospital room to sen a dying spouso, nXJWrinnring sexual assault and abuse and living in roar. 
I can almost hear it now: "It's just marriago that's !wing kopl away, and thoro's still eivil unions." 
Hidiculous. 
If the real basis for this denial of equal rights­the only exeuse-is that some religious adherents believe homosexual sex is immoral or that homosex­ual relationships are "unnatural," then it isn't just about marriage, is it? That's especially true if" civil unions are acceptable, or we should "leave it up to the states." If' tlwsf) options appear workable, then this isn't even about the supposed evils of homosex­ual sex. 
The underlying rationale for denying equal rights to one group of people is that they are, in essence, less equal and therefore less deserving. This cam­paign is not focused on a "definition of marriage" or homosexual behavior-it is a campaign against homosexuals, and the social debate is because a cer­tain sngment of this country's population desperately wants thorn to shut up and disappear. This is about roar and disgust and the firm eonvietion, rHpeated so eloquently, that "my boy isn't going to grow up to be a l"aggot." 
If this fear and disgust was directed at any other group, it would be called bigotry, and everyone would agroe that's exactly the proper term l"or it. 
The words and phrases may refer to marriage, but everyone knows that's not really what's being dis­cussed. You must have imagined looking in the eye of a beloved friend or family member and saying, "I love you dearly, but you don't deserve to get mar­ried." A person would need to harden himself to say that-he'd need to shut down his empathy, because the dehumanization inherent in that statement is obvious. 
Because somo people are trying to get their fear and disgust codified into law by any means neces­sary, the value and worth of individual people are being calmly discussed in the political arena. Eighty­nine percent of Mississippians didn't vote to have our constitution permanently ban fHiual marriage rights-rather, 89 percent of" Mississippi voted in a constitutional amendment that says, "You are not the same type of human being we are; we wish you didn't exist." That is not what the words were, but that is the message that was sent, and it's dif"ficult to believe there was a single vote east that didn't rec­ognize what the diseourse was actually about. It's difficult to believe that no one afTected by tlw legis­lation went through the next l"ew days feeling a little more subdued and a little more alienated. 
There's causation there, between the eodifind fear and the sufl"ering. Plaeing this fear and disgust in the public arena as a valid political topic is how open hatred beeomes legitimizml. And that's why ehildren who act "gay" are harassed at school, why GLBT teens sul"fer such high levels of depression, why so many people live each day in rear or being "outed" bncause they'lllosn their jobs and why sui­cide rates are so high among people who aren't "straight." 
I do agree that this is a religious and moral isstw. But you're on the wrong side, and still there's noth­ing I can possibly say to change your mind or touch your heart. Not compassion, not pity, not legal analysis. not religious scholarship. not appeals to basic justice or your sense of humanity. So l"or now I have to give up on you. 
For me, it hurts too much, and for you it matters too little. Happy Coming Out Day, evnrybody. 
This column originally appeared in the Oct. 11 issue o.f the Daily Mississippian. /.he daily publica­tion at the University (~{Mississippi. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

page 12 



THE OBSERVER 









CENE 
Something is rotten in the suburb of Wisteria Lane. The suicide of seemingly happy housewife Mary Alice Young (Brenda Strong) disrupts the placid surface of the street and incites the drama that makes up ABC's hit show, "Desperate Housewives." Part soap opera, part mystery and showing echoes of both "Melrose Place" and "American Beauty," the show has made domes­ticity fascinating in ways that Martha Stewart never dreamed of. 
Season One DVD Review 
The DVD set of the flrst season recaps the scan­dal, humor and intrigue that made the show a hit while adding some fantastic extras that are just icing on the cake. The set comes out just as the second season is beginning, and the new batch of episodes is proving to be juicier and darker than the inaugural season had even hinted at. 
"Desperate Housewives" packs a lot into each episode. Along with the mystery of the suicide that started the show, there are flve main charac­ters with wildly different story arcs. Add hus­bands, children, mysterious neighbors and a host of other individuals, and it becomes the television equivalent of a Dickens novel in terms of sheer bulk of characters. Having the entire flrst season will seem like a godsend to fans of the show who can how obsessively catch up before plunging into the depths of Season Two. 
The show follows the adventures of a group of women who live on the same suburban street and must grapple with their lives in the wake of a friend's suicide. In spite of these dark origins, the show manages to balance humor with pathos in a masterful way. 
The women of Wisteria Lane are a wildly mixed but wholly entertaining bunch. Susan (Teri Hatcher) is a bubbly, klutzy divorcee raising a precocious daughter and looking for love. Bree (Marcia Cross) is a domestic tyrant who obses­sively pursues perfection and rules over her fami­ly with an iron flst, housed in a perfectly tailored, hand-sewn gloves. Lynette (Felicity Huffman), a former career woman, is forced to grapple with four boys and a suburban world far removed from the boardroom. Gabrielle (Eva Longoria) is a young, spoiled trophy wife who gets what she wants, including the gardener. Edie (Nicollette Sheridan) is a man-eater who is willing to do any­thing to beat another woman for a man's affec­tion. 
A host of extras are included with the episodes themselves, and the producers took great care in choosing material that would fit in with the dark­
ly humorous atmosphere of the show. Disc one includes the feature, "A Walk 

Desperate
Down Wisteria Lane," which features creator Marc Cherry being interviewed by "The View"'s Meredith Viera. There is 

Housewive also audio commentary from Cherry on the pilot episode, as well as several 
Buena Vista Video deleted scenes. 
Disc two features two episodes with commentary from Cherry and from director Larry Shaw. There is also a fea­ture entitled "Desperate Housewives 


Around the World," that reveals how the show is translated into other languages. "Multi Language Sequence: Bree's Dinner Party" includes a sample of dubs from different lan­guages put together in one sequence. 
Disc three contains a feature about the fashion of "Desperate Housewives" called "Dressing Wisteria Lane." There are also deleted scenes and optional commentary from Cherry. 
Disc four contains deleted scenes and audio commentary. 
Disc five has one deleted scene and features the stars of the show sharing their favorite scenes in a features called "Audio Commentary: The Ladies' Favorite Scenes." 
The sixth and final disc contailns the most bonus material. "Oprah Winfrey is the New Neighbor,'' features the talk show host spliced in with scenes from the show to create a humorous skit. "The Secrets of Wisteria Lane'" provides an inside look into how the show is written and put together, while "Bloopers from the Set" supplies the requisite DVD -extra of mess-ups from the show. The feature "Behind the Scenes on Wisteria Lane" shows Meredith Viera interviewing various members of cast and crew about working on the show. There are also deleted scenes and audio commentary from Cherry. 
The DVD set provides a great ba!:kground and homage to what has emerged as a humorous and innovative show. 
Season Two Preview 
The second season of "Desperate Housewives" picks up where the emotionally intense season finale of Season One left otT. it not only continues the flrst season, but actually manages to up the magnitude of drama on the show as well. 
The first episode, "Next," is full of intense reve­lations and life-changing events. The origins of Zach (Cody Kasch), Mary Alice's son, are revealed. Susan (Teri Hatcher) and Mike (James that comes to the surface. 


Bree (Marcia Cross) ha the sudden death of her Pyfrom) but also with the law Phyllis (Shirley Knig her life as well. 
Lynette (Felicity Huffma must deal not only with but also with the fact th than skilled in the domest 
Gabrielle (Eva Longori< Chavira) in jail, and the t uate their relationship. 
In "You Could Drive a 
ond episode of the seas her ex-husband sleepi Sheridan), and her rei strained at best at the m 
Bree and her mother-i square off, and Phyllis s killed Rex. Carlos and G ous terms, and Lynette to make her husband k new neighbor, Betty Appl is introduced and she i unusual secret. 
In the third episode of tl Get Away from Me," Bn been exhumed due to the his death. Gabrielle begl gardener, around after t~ must deal with balancinl and Susan and Edie be~ Julie needs a partner for a 
The show will more tha geoning plotlines and fill t ate the inevitable twists season indicated the sho~ off. 
If there is one thing t1 "Desperate Housewives," 



Graphics by GRAHAM EBETSCH 
I F F N 
NoT JusT TROPHY WivEs: THE SHow's LEADING LADIES 

THE OBSERVER 



CENE

Wednesday, October 12, 2005 
> L L Y G R 
.:1 
'· I\ 

)) 
\'. ' J\ll 
' -~~ .' ~JJ 
til I I ..... ~ I It 'I a •O II
fl. l I 


· to dna! not only with husband Hex (Shawn ·ad that hnr mothnr-in­Jt) is now nwddling in 
n) returns to work and u1 unsyrnpathnti<: boss Lt lwr husband is loss 
1: splwrn. ) visits Carlos (Hieardo o of tlwm must n~eval­
'erson Crazy," the see­
n. Susan finds out that ~ with 1-:clie (Nkollettn .tionship with Mikn is 
lWIIL 
·law. Phyllis, continue to pPds that Brnn actually riPlle an~ still on tnnu­ns to nlaboratn llmgths np thn housn dnan. A ~whiln (Alfh~ Woodard), · nwnalml to have an 
II' s1•ason, "You'll Nevnr 
•n learns that Hex has suspicions surrounding ns to follow John. Uw eir afl'air nnds. I.ynnttn 
homo life with work, 
in squaring ofT when 
church talent show. n likely take those bur­liHII out. as w1~ll as ern­wei turns that Uw lirst 
was 1:apabln of pulling 
1at's for eertain about it's that nothing is quito 
bn. 
In llollywood, it usually only takes one major event to turn someone's career from a slump into a smash. Sometimes that one thing is a movie, sometimes it is a scandal, but pos­sibly the best way to win in Hollywood is to have a hit TV show. What better way to quick­ly become famous than to appear in the living rooms of the world once a week? 
"Desperate Housewives" has become a huge international hit, and with its success, the stock of the actresses who portray the women of Wistnria Lane has skyrocketed. Examining the acting history of the five main actresses revnals that most of them had stalled careers or careers that had never really gotten off the ground, but a little show on ABC has changed all of that forever. 
The actresses who appear on "Desperate Housewives" had successful careers before the show began, but nothing like the ones they arn nxperiencing now that the show is an intnrnational sensation. 
Teri llatcher found fame after appearing as Lois Lane on the hit show, "Lois and Clark: The New Adventures of Superman." In spite of a few appearances in films like "Spy Kids" and the .James Bond film "Tomorrow Never Dies," llateher's career stalled somewhat after "Lois and Clark" endnd. 
The role of Susan Mayer that has jump­startml llateher's earner was actually offered to three other women before it came to her. Heather Locklear, Callista Flockhart and Mary-Louise Parker all turned down thn role before it eame to llatdwr. 
Marcia Cross appeared on severed other addictivn nighttimn soap operas before "Despnrate Housewives." She had roles on "Knots Landing," "The Edge of the Night" and "One Lifn to Livo." She gained some notoriety playing Dr. Kimberly Shaw on "Melrose l'lacn," but took some time off from acting to pursun hnr Mastor's degree in Psychology. 
ller return to acting included a stint on the WB's drama "Everwood." ller portrayal of the uptight perfectionist Bree Van De Kamp has not only revived her career but has won her major industry awards, spots on magazine covnrs and legions of fans. 
Felicity Huffman was better known for being married to actor William II. Macy ("Seabiseuit," "Pleasantville") than for most of lwr own projects, with the possible exception of the critically praised television show, "Sports Night." 
She appeared in several films prior to "Desperate Housewives," but many of the roles were small and many of the films forget­table. These included "Magnolia," "Raising Helen" and "Christmas with the Kranks." 
Eva Longoria graduated from Texas A&M­Kingsville with a degree in Kinesiology and was crowned the Miss Corpus Christi USA pageant in 1998. Following her graduation, she was discovered at a talent contest in Los Angeles. She subsequently appeared on a variety of soap, including "The Bold and the Beautiful," "Beverly Hills 90210" and "The Young and the Hestless." 
Thanks to "Desperate Housewives," Longoria now has a huge contract with L'Oreal, took the number one spot on Maxim's Top 100 list and was one of People Magazine's 50 Most Beautiful People. 
In the 1980s, Nicollette Sheridan was a hot commodity thanks to her role on the nighttime soap. "Knots Landing." Following that suc­cess, though, her career languished in the realm of made-for-TV movies like "Somebody's Daughter" and "Shadows of Desire." 
Sheridan also appeared in less-than-Oscar­worthy films like "Spy Hard" and "Beverly Hills Ninja." "Desperate Housewives" not only signaled her return to television beyond made-for-TV movies, but also her return to the A-list from the bottom of the B-list. 
Th1~ ultimate representation of this success is tlHl fact that three of the main actresses on the show received Ernmy nominations in a category that has only live nominees. Marcia Cross, Teri Hatcher and Felicity Huffman were all nominated in the category and Huffman actually took home the prize for her role as flustered career woman-turned-mother Lynettn Scavo. The show was nominated for Best Comedy Series, but lost the prize to "Everybody Loves Haymond." 
"Dnsperate Housewives" revived the stag­nant careers of Teri Hatcher, Nicollette Sheridan and Marcia Cross and launched Felicity Huffman and Eva Longoria into televi­sion fame. 
These women are now not only bigger than soap operas, made-for-TV movies and the careers of their spouses, but are actually emerging as some of the most famous and powerful people in Hollywood today. 
Contact Molly Griffin at mgriffin@nd.edu 

page 13 

Mike Delfino The object of both Susan and F.die's attention, Mike is a new addition to Wisteria Lane. He claims to be a plumber, but he has a mysterious past and a different reason to be on the 

simply fix people's pipes. 
Paul Young ts Alice's husband who, 
after her death, turns from a picture-perfect husband into a reclusive, violent man. He is hiding a number of secrets and is willing to do anything, even kill, in order to keep them hidden. 
i..., 
' Carlos Solis A we~.tt1/entrepreneur who jealously guaros his wife, Carlos is also 
constantly on the lam from the law due to his questionable business practices. He and his wife constantly struggle for power, particularly over money, e\'en alter he goes to prison. 
'JRex Van De Kamp 
J
On the surface, Rex appears to be the petfcct cotntcrpart to the nawless life that Breet'rs set up in their home, but lik~'ost1 chamcters on "Dcspemte Housewi,~" Rex has secret-;. He hao; a heart attac · while seeing a prostitute, and eventually dies, leaving Brce to 

cope with his death but also that she killed him 
Zlch Young The odd teenage son of appears to be a somewhat teenager at first, but her suicide sends 
him into a spiral of violence and bizarre behavior. His origin plays a central role in the mystery of Mary_ Alice's death and the secret~ that hiS:. father tries so desperately to keep. His 

7
only confidante is Julie Mayer, Susan's daughter. 
John The object of Gabrielle·s lust, John is 
~~ ~ 
the neighborhood gardener and her partner in a serie'~of bizarre adventures that attempt to hide their 
affair from her husband :nd mother­in-law..f...;,,~
·!.
b..*''·· 

lj~;? 
::JJ/ ­


..' I , 
.·.I 
I 


THE OBSERVER 



CENE
page 14 
Wednesday, October 12, 2005 
MOVIE REVIEW 
Raunchy teen comedy worth the 1 Wait' 
By VINCE LABRIOLA  onward. This doesn't change the fact that the film is very funny.  
Scene Cri ric  "Waiting ... " is not intended for the  
avant-garde set watching films in art­ 
"Waiting  ... " is the latest in a  long  house cinemas in Tribeca. This is a film  
line of raunchy teen comedies that  meant for adplescent teenagers who  
extends as far back as 1978's seminal  like to indulge their inner pervert like  
classic "National Lampoon's Animal  Tim Matheson did with Dean Wormer's  
House," and as recently as this sum­ wife in 1978 and Jason Biggs so memo­ 
mer's "Wedding Crashers."  rably did with his mother's baked  
Rob McKittrick's directorial debut is  goods in 1999.  
one unrelenting gross-out after anoth­ A story about a day in the life of a  
er, and as a result has been panned by  group of 20-somethings working at a  
the vast majority of critics out there.  national  restaurant  chain  (think  
However,  if  Hennigan's or T.G.I.  
approached as nothing more  Waiting 000  Friday's), "Waiting ... " places every  
than it is  - a  aspect of the loca­ 
raunchy  teen  tion at its disposal.  
comedy  Jokes about trusting  
"Waiting ... " is  the  people  who  
very funny, albeit occa­sionally (nay, constantly) perverted,  Director: Rob McKittrick Writer: Rob McKittrick Starring: Ryan Reynolds, Justin Long, David Koechner and John Francis Daley  make and serve your food abound, as do clever com­mentaries on stereo­types like the artifi- Dean (Justin Long), left, and Monty (Ryaworking in a fictional chain restaurant in sequence in "American Pie").  Photo courtesy of movieweb.com n Reynolds) are a pair of 20-somethings the raunclhy teen comedy "Waiting ... " that defines a true classic like "Animal  
entertainment  ciality of the perky  Dane Cook and Luis Guzman appear  House."  
that only falters when compared to  attitudes and environments created in  as  well, and while Cook's particular  It is uncompromisingly vulgar, per­ 
some of the true classics of the genre.  establishments such as  the one  pre­ penchant for vile humor fits the bill  verse  and downright outrageous at  
The raunchy teen comedy has always  sented in the film.  well here, Guzman is hilarious as the  times, and  as  a  result most will not  
been an acquired taste. From the now­ Leading the way is Monty, the lead  head cook obsessed with catching peo­ even give it a chance, lest they be asso­ 
revered antics of Otter, Bluto and the  waiter at Shenanigan's, played ably by  ple looking at his, ah, equipment. It can  ciated with such crude filth.  
Deltas in "Animal House," to the now  Ryan  Reynolds  ("Van  Wilder").  safely be said that after watching  However, if you are looking for some­ 
infamous Jim and his "American Pie,"  Reynolds holds his own throughout the  "Waiting ... " orie will never look at a  thing that, if you let it, really will make  
these films have been routinely panned  film, and his acrid, sex-filled conversa­ goat in the same way again.  you laugh, "Waiting ... " fits the bill  
by critics, and rightfully so. Each new  tion with his mother truly does deserve  "Waiting ... " is certainly not such a  nicely. Just make sure you're not plan­ 
entry into the genre sets the bar for  a spot among some of the best scenes  sure-fire crowd pleaser like "Wedding  ning on eating anytime soon.  
• grossness one notch higher, and Rob  in teen movie history (think along the  Crashers" or "Old School," which relied  
McKittrick's new film "Waiting ... " car­ lines of the outrageousness of some­ on tried-and-true teen comedy tent  Contact Vince Labriola at  
ries  the  torch  unceremoniously  thing  like  the  "Nadia  Web  cam"  poles,  nor does it have the charisma  vlabriol@nd.edu  

DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
Spain's 2002 masterpiece to be screened at DPAC 
By BRIAN DOXTADER Assistant Scene Editor 
Is there such a thing as a low-key melodrama? Perhaps only the films of Pedro Almodovar fall into such a seem­ingly oxymoronic classification. His pic­tures are at once both quietly subdued and stirringly emotional, which makes for a unique and engagingly affecting cinema. 
2002's "Ha·ble Con Ella" ("Talk to Her") may very well be his masterpiece -a strange, beautiful and often star­tling f1lm that came ofT the heels of his internationally 
explores relationships, but here those relations are between men rather than women. Though women are a catalyst for the unfolding of the film's plot, they spend most of the film in comas, which forces the men to interactive in strik­ingly sensitive ways. 
Almodovar once said that if he had made John Ford's "The Searchers" (1956) that John Wayne would have cried. Here, Marco cries in several key points throughout the film, bending his character archetype in surprising ways. 
On some level, Marco begins to understand Benigno, who is nearly obsessed with his 
acclaimed "Todos love for a coma­
Talk to Her
Sobre Mi Madre" tose patient whom ("All About My 
he has never spo­Mother"). It will ken to. be screened this As the depth of Thursday as part Benigno's neurosis of the Nanovic When:Thursday,Oct13at7and10pm is slowly revealed,Film Series. Where: Browning Cinema, DPAC 
Marco is appropri­
The plot deals with two men, Marco (Dario Grandinetti). a journalist, and Benigno (Javier Camara), a male nurse, who meet when Marco's mata­dor lover Lydia (Rosario Flores) is mauled in a bullfighting accident. As Marco tries to deal with his comatose lover, Benigno reveals that he is also in love with one of a patients·. a dancer whom he used to see practicing in the studio across from his apartment. 
As the two men deal with their respective situations, they become friends who begin to share a mutual understanding and empathy that res­onates throughout the picture. 
What is most unique about "Talk to Her" is the way in which it avoids a particularly stereotypical essentialist metanarrative. Like all melodramas, it ately shocked, but 
is nevertheless sympailhetic. His own lover's gruesome fate alliows him to respond in ways that might not be expected but seem com­pletely appropriate. 
If "Talk to Her" were a different film, the denouement and conclusion might be problematic. Here, the movie's final act never seems anything less than log­ical thanks to Almodovar's attention to detail and the nuanced performances of Grandinetti and Camara. The tone and style of the film also overcome any difficulties the audience may have with the film's content. 
The film is beautifully shot by Javier Aguirresarobe, who gives the film a strikingly poetic look that changes ­often dramatically -based on the set­ting. The bullfighting scenes in particu-lar ripple with grace, clarity, and hor­ror -they cut to the core of what is essentially a ferociously violent specta­tor sport. 

Much of the film's credit must be attributed to director Pedro Almodovar. "Talk to Her," is at times quite disturb­ing, and its melodramatic plot twists unfold in often-shocking ways, but Almodovar is a master of his eraft, and he controls the film in a perfectly orchestrated minor key. 
Under a different, brasher and less experienced director, "Talk to Iler" 
may have been a much lesser film than what Almodovar achieved. 
Ultimately, it is his sensitivity and subtlety as both a writer and as a director --coupled with the fine acting of both Camara and Grandinetti -that keeps the film afloat. 
For those unfamiliar with the works of Almodovar, "Talk to Iler" is a fine starting point, as it is one of the best films of the past few years. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu 
Wednesday, October 12, 2005 The Observer + PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

.. 
• 1 ... 

. i 
-----~------------------------------. 
page 16 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 12, 2005 
MLB-NLCS 

Astros rotation ready for Carpenter and Cards 
America's version of Yankees­
Houston aces and St. 
Red Sox. In fact, it's not even dose to being the best rivalry in
Louis sluggers set to 

the NL Central -that distinction battle for NL pennant belongs to the Cardinals-Cubs. 
"That's at a different level Associated Press because of the fans," Eckstein conceded. "I don't know that 
ST. LOUIS -They are mem­you'll find a Cardinals fan who bers of the same division. says he hates the Astros more They're perennial playoff teams. than the Cubs." And they're meeting for the sec­But when it comes to perform­ond year in a row with a trip to ance on the lield, the Cardinals the World Series at stake. and Astros have risen to the top 
All right! Let's have some of the senior circuit. fightin' words between these They're back for the first NL obviously bitter rivals. championship series rematch in 
"They run a classy organiza­13 years, which begins with tion over there," said Lance Game 1 Wednesday night at Berkman of the Houston Astros. soon-to-be-demolished Busch "We have a lot of respect for Stadium (a new stadium, set to them." open in 2006, is rising next 
Hmm, maybe we'll fare better door). at stirring things up in the "It's a classic from a baseball opposing clubhouse. standpoint," Cardinals manager 
"They're a good bunch of Tony La Russa said. "Maybe you each other because we play so Now, even after meeting 16 the St. Louis lineup to reach guys," said David Eckstein of the don't get as much passion from much." times during the regular season triple figures driving in runs. He St. Louis Cardinals. "It's hard to the fans during Cardinals-Astros Indeed, there are many simi­and preparing for Astros­had a lot more help last year, but dislike them." as you do for Cardinals-Cubs. larities between the teams. Cardinals II, both sides say it's injuries to Scott Rolen, Larry 
Thud. But we're building a pretty good Both have deep starting rota­impossible to drum up the sort Walker and Reggie Sanders 
Clearly, this isn't Middle passion base for our fans and for tions. Both have dominating of hatred that signifies a truly forced the Cardinals to be more closers. Both have versatile passionate rivalry. creative with their offensive pro­offenses that can go long or For one, Houston still feels like duction. manufacture runs when the situ­a junior member instead of an "We do the little things," said ation calls for it. And both are equal partner. first-year Cardinal Mark making a habit of playing in The Cardinals followed up last Grudzielanek, who wasn't October. year's NL pennant-the 16th in around for last season's power 
St. Louis has six playoff franchise history -by going 11-display. ''I've never seen so many appearances over the past 5 against the Astros this season squeezes in my life." decade, reaching the NLCS four on the way to 100 wins and a The pitching staff also picked times and the World Series a runaway victory in the Central up the slack. The Cardinals got a year ago with a seven-game vic­Division. huge season from Game 1 tory over the Astros -a memo­Houston finished 11 games starter Chris Carpenter (21-5), rable series that was overshad­back, but managed to pull out backed him up with offseason owed by Boston's comeback win the wild card after falling 15 acquisition Mark Mulder (16-8) against the Yankees in the ALCS. games under .500 early in the and rounded off the rotation 
The Cardinals stayed alive year. with Jeff Suppan (16-10) and when Jim Edmonds hit a game­"It's not really going to be a Matt Morris {14-1 0). Jason winning homer in the 12th rivalry until we start beating the Isringhausen had 39 saves. inning of Game 6. St. Louis Cardinals a couple of times," The 2004 Astros also featured closed out the series by beating Astros manager Phil Garner a prolific offense, built around Roger Clemens in Game 7. said. "When they go home mad, Carlos Beltran, Jeff Kent and the 
Houston is making its sixth then it will be a rivalry. Right remaining "Killer B's" -Lance playoff appearance in nine years now, it's kind of one-sided." Berkman, Craig Biggio and Jefi' and looking to reach the World But he acknowledges the par­Bagwell. Series for the first time in fran­allels between the teams, right But Beltran and Kent were lost chise history. The Astros made a down to the makeovers both in free agency, Berkman had to breakthrough last year by escap­underwent since their first meet­come back from offseason knee ing the opening round, beating ing in the NLCS, changes injury and Bagwell is only a shell perennial nemesis Atlanta. They brought on by frail health and of the once-fearsome slugger, knocked off the Braves again monetary decisions. limited to pinch-hitting after this year, advancing with an 18-Albert Pujols had another shoulder surgery. Morgan inning win Sunday -the longest huge year (. 330, 41 HRs, 117 Ensberg was the only Houston game in postseason history. RBis), but he's the only one in hitter to reach 100 RBis. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 r.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
NOW HIRING Have a car? Need HOMES FOR RENT. KRAMER some extra cash? Jimmy John s is PROPERTIES HAS HOMES AVAIL-LosT & FouND hiring drivers for all shifts. Contact ABLE RANGING FROM 3 BDRMS Chuck at 286-0299. UP TO 10 BDRMS. CLOSE TO ND. 
FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL FOUND: Items of value near PE on BABYSITTER Wanted! Family in KRAMER FOR SHOWINGS-Tuesday, 1 0/4. Granger-days & nights. Ca1r rqrd. OFFICE 234-2436; CELL 315-5032. Call Barbara 243-1747. Call Laura 243-4776. 
YEA! COLLEGE PARK has apart-LOST ON 9/28 -ments available for 06-07 school DIAMOND TENNIS BRACELET. FoR SALE year. Call today 235-7234. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 2,3,4,5,6 Bedrooms includes all utilities, local phone, washer/dryer, security sys­tem. $400/student. Office 234-9334, Cell315-2509 ndstudentrentals.com 
Available 1 bedroom Ivy Residential (Jamison) condo 11/21/05-5/06. Call Mary Anne Benedict 607-723­7363. 
5bdrm house, sleeps 12. Avail. foot-NEED USC TIX, CAN ALSO SWAP ball season. 574-261-0349. LOCAL LODGING, 312-925-8961. 
I need USC tix. Call Nick at 330­

TICKETS 207-7434. 
WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX. TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570. 
PERSONAL 

FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 
REWARD OFFERED. PLEASE CALL SHARON Elegant all brick 3bdrm home & 631-5248. garage.Nicely remodeled, gorgeous 
inside.1 mi to ND. $175,900.283­LOST: Womens eyeglasses, brown 0629. 
frames (Ralph Lauren). Lost on Oct. 7. Reward. Call574-1 bdrm condo near ND. All appli­904-9831. ances. $69,900. Call Kim Kollar 
574-280-8160. CENTURY 2i JIM FOUND LATE SEPT. DUNFEE Between Legends and Mendoza: sterling silver Tiffany bracelet. Call and identify. Kate 631-5314. FoR RENT 
GREAT HOUSES GREAT 
WANTED NEIGHBORHOODS 
andersonNDrentals.com 
BLUE & GOLD HOMES. Best rates for weekend, monthly & yearly rentals. 574-250-7653. 
Rooms in private home for rent dur­ing ND football weekends or other ND-SMC events. Call 243-0658. 
WALK TO SCHOOL 2-6 BED­ROOM HOMES MMMRENTALS.COM 532-1408 Paradise! Privacy! For rent-the East Wing of 12,000+sf gated estate/10 acres located 17 minutes to ND.Furn 5 bdr/3ba,private kitchen,huge family roomw/fp. Pool,2ponds,tennis. Daily ND trans­po avail. Ideal for 3-5 friends/MBA/grad students. Will hold for future occupancy. $1395 all or $300 per room,inc util. 269-683­5163. 
WEEKEND GUESTS. Nicely fur-B & B for all ND home games. ND nished, one bdrm. apt. in safe alum w/beautiful clean, elegant Mishawaka area. $175 for 2 nights. home. 4 suites avail. each with pri­276-3717 vale bath. Walk to ND. 574-273­
ALL STUDENTS Part Time Work 4010. $12.25 base/appt. Flexible sched-Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for ND ND HOME GAME WEEKENDS ules around classes, Gain exp. in game weekends. 7732182203 Very nice 3bdr home, fully fur-HOUSES FOR RENT: 3-5 BED-customer sales & service, nished,walk to ND. Garage+ 5 off-ROOM HOMES.GOOD CONDI-Conditions apply, all ages 17 & 2brm turn apt ND & SMC events. street parking,gas grill. Open lease TION.CLOSE TO CAMPUS. Call older, Call Today 574-273-3835. 254-1600 after. 283-0629. Sean 532-1895. 
SITE FOR$$: not go it alone. If you or someone www.victorytickets.com you love needs confidential support 
or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT-Gude, CSC, at 1-7819. For more BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. information, see our bi-weekly ad in 273-3911. THE. OBSERVER. 
WANTED:ND-USC football tix. TOP Palendrome numerals. $$$PAID. CALL 574-232-2378 
A.M. 574-288-2726 P.M. Team "Not Consensual, Not a 
Problem" 2-0 with last night's 46-0 BUY/SELUTRADE OR SWAP ND victory .... Go Team Go FOOTBALL TIX. 289-8048. 
Midnight tonight you're finally 21! NEED USC & TENN TIX & PARK­lNG PASS. 574-276-8507. T-Minus 1 day to Frizzapalooza 
A FARM FAMILY NEEDS 2 OR 4 Beat USC. Countdown: 3 days USC TIX. WILL PAY A FAIR PRICE. 654-0169 (local call) Soft music and good friends are 
soul-soothing. Alum needs NO-USC tickets. Please call Mike at 607-733-4590. Ciccone for Pulitzer. 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
AROUND THE NATION 
Wednesday, Ocrober 12,2005 COMPILED FROM THE ()BSERVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 17 
----~=============================================================== 
Men's Soccer National Poll 
Ieam record 1 Akron 11·0·0 2 New Mexico 9-0-1 3 Old Dominion 8-1-2 4 St. John's 7-1-3 5 North Carolina 8·2·1 6 Connecticut 9-2·1 7 Virginia 8-1·2 8 Indiana 7-1-3 9 Missouri Stale 8-0·2 10 Santa Clara 8·3·0 11 North Carolina State 8-3-1 12 Maryland 8-3·0 13 California 8·2·1 14 Wake Forest 8-3·0 15 Duke 7·2·1 16 Duquesne 8-2·0 17 UCLA 7·3·0 18 Vermont 9-4·0 19 Cincinnati 7·3·2 20 UC Santa Barbara 6·2·2 21 Buffalo 10·2·0 22 Northern Illinois 8·2·2 23 North Carolina Greensboro 7-3·0 24 Virginia Tech 5-3·3 25 San Diego Stale 7-1·3 
Women's Soccer National Poll 
team record 
1 Penn State 14-0-0 2 Portland 13·0·0 3 North Carolina 13-1-0 4 UCLA 11-1-0 5 Santa Clara 11-2-1 6 Duke 9·2·1 7 Virginia 10·3·1 8 NOTRE DAME 12-2·0 9 Florida State 11-2-0 10 Boston College 9·2-1 11 California 9·2·1 12 Wake Forest 8·3·1 13 Tennessee 8·4·1 14 Marquette 12·2·1 15 Pepperdin'e 10·1·1 16 Brigham Young 12-1-1 17 Connecticut 11·2-1 18 West Virginia 8·3-3 19 Stanford 8·3·1 20 Texas A&M 9·3·1 21 Yale 9·2-0 22 Florida 9-3-1 23 Purdue 8·5·0 24 Cal State Fullerton 10·3·0 25 Nebraska 8-4-1 
MIAA Women's Soccer Poll 
team  league  overall  
1  Calvin  8-0-0  9·2·1  
2  Hope  8-1-0  10·2·0  
3  Kalamazoo  5·3·0  6·4-1  
4  SAINT MARY'S  5·4·0  6-6-0  
5  Albion  4-4-0  4-6-0  
6  Olivet  4-5·0  4·7·0  
7  Alma  3-6·0  4·7·1  
8  Adrian  2·7·0  2·10·0  
9  Tri-State  0·9·0  2·10·0  


around the dial 
MLB PLAYOFFS 

Astros at Cardinals 7:20 p.m., FOX Angels at White Sox 7:20p.m., FOX 
NBA 


Associated Press 

PHOENIX -Eight days 
after signing a  five-year,  
$73  million  contract  
extnnsion,  Amare  

Stoudemire underwent surgery Tuesday to repair damage to his left knee and will be sidelined for about four months~The extnnt of the injury to the Phoenix Suns' dynamic young all-star was deter­mined during "diagnostic" surgery by team doctor Thomas Carter, who then proceeded with the microfracture repair, Suns president Bryan Colangelo said. 
Stoudemire. who turns 
23 next month, signed for the maximum allowed under the NBA's collective bargaining agreement with the players union. The extension kicks in after this season. 
Colangelo said the team knew of Stoudemire's knee problem during contract negotiations, but was not aware of the extent until Tuesday's surgery. Even had they known, it would not have had an impact on signing a player the Suns believe could develop into the best in the NBA. 
"Whatever is in the best interest of Amare is in the best interest of the Suns," Colangelo said. 
IN BRIEF 

Colon will not pitch in ALCS 
against Angels 
CIIICAGO -Injured ace Bartolo Colon was left off the Los Angeles Angf~ls' roster for the AL champi­onship series Tuesday and will not pitch at all against the Chicago White Sox. 
A 21-game winner during the reg­ular season, Colon lef't his start Monday night against the New York Yankees in Game 5 of the AL playoll's after only 23 pitches because of inflammation in his right shoulder. 
lin had bmm bothnred by tightness in his back sincn early Septnmber, and was to be re-1waluated by team doctors on Tuesday before Game 1 of the ALCS in Chicago. 
Hookie Ervin Santana came on against New York and pitdwd 5 1-3 innings of solid relief to earn the win in a 5-3 victory, sending tho Angels into the ALCS for the second time in four seasons. 
But if they're going to reach the 
The team projects Stoudemire to return around the All-Star break Feb.17-21. 
Stoudemire first talknd about the soreness six to eight weeks ago, Colangelo said. After it worsened during last week's training camp in Tucson, he sought the opinions of three doctors before giving Carter the go-ahead for arthroscopic surgery. 
"Dr. Carter, in consulta· tion with Amare, chose the best course of action in terms of treating it aggres­sively and taking care of it now rather than letting it become a lingering prob­lem," Colanwdo said. 

In a nnws releasn, thn Suns said Cartnr n~pairnd a joint surface defect roughly onn centimeter in diameter on the inside of his left knelL 
"The surgnry wnnt well and other than tlw dofeet that we trnated today, Amare's knee is remark­ably and structurally healthy," Carter said in the statmnnnt released by the tnam. "Given Amaro's age and the nominal size of the location of the defect. I am conf'ident the microfracture procedure performed will allow a healthy and normal return to action." 
World Series, they'll have to do it without Colon, a leading candidate for the AL Cy Young Award. Bloom looks to go pro in a second sport 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. -The Olympics are four months away and, luckily for J1~remy Bloom, the NFL scouting combine starts a week after his stint at the Winter Games are over. 
Bloom plans on being at both. 
Thn American freestyle skiing star, who was forcnd out of college foot­ball and is now seeking a spot on the 
U.S. Olympic ski team. has been busy interviewing agents to guide him through his pro football career, thn future of which will start playing out next February at tho combine. 
"I can fly back and run the 40," Bloom said Tuesday of his post· Olympic plans. ''I'll decide on an agent next week and we'll got the process rolling." B11fi1re that, though, there is that little thing called the 
Olympics.Steelers welcome good news about Roethlisberger  
PITTSBUHGII Pittsburgh  
Steelers quarterback Ben  
Hoethlisberger not only doesn't hav1~  
a serious knee injury. as tlw team  
initially feared Monday night in San  
Diogo, he could play again as early  
as Sunday.  
After an eventful 24 hours in  
which the Steelers rallied to win  
24-22 after blowing a 14-point  
lead, lost their star quarterback to  
what looked to be a frightful injury,  
and flew all night, coach Bill  
Cowher was more relieved than  
happy.  
And he was very happy.  
Hoethlisberger sustainnd a  
hyperextended left knee and a  
bone bruise after IH~ing strw~k by  
Chargers defensive end Luis  
Castillo's helmet with 1:05 remain­ 
ing in the game -but nol.hing  
else.  
I  
'I'  
.I  




page 18 
SMC SoccER 

Belles look to avenge loss at Albion today 
Saint Mary's hopes to rebound from 2-0 loss Saturday to Hope 
By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 

The Belles look to rebound today as they travel to Albion College to face the Britons in a late-season soccer rematch. 
The last time these two tPams took to the pitch against each other, Saint Mary's grabbed a 2-0 victory on its home field. The aggressive play of freshman Lauren Hinton, 
"/just thought that 
who notched both was great." Belle goals and the energy was Saint Mary's was a constant goaltender Laura
great, that the 
threat to the Heline played
effort was great. " 
Briton defense, solidly in the sparked the Belles Albion game after offensively. Karyn Mackenzie making seven The Britons are saves. She made
Belles coach 
currently threaten­ing the Belles' fourth-place standing in the MIAA conference with a 4-4 record. Saint Mary's has com­piled a 5-4 record in league play so far this season and seeks to challenge upstart Kalamazoo for the third-place spot. Kalamazoo is fresh off of a 1-0 upset over Saint Mary's and a narrow defeat of Albion by a 1-0 margin. 
Albion has recently wit­nessed a renaissance on defense. The Britons have allowed seven goals in their last six games, but three of those goals came in a face-off against league leader and unbeaten Calvin College. The solid play of junior midfielder Ashley Lynch backed up the 
Afamily concert with Jim Gill is even more playful than lnis music! 
Sunday October 16th, 2:00 p.m. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College, $5.00 per ticket Tickets available at O'Laughlin Box Office (574) 284-4626 Call Childhood Development Center 
defense. She was one of last week's nominees for MIAA defensive player of the week. 
But Albion does not have the only player worthy of that honor. The Belles' Shannon Culbertson was also nominat­ed for the award, but lost to Adrian's Stephanie Music. Culbertson was honored for her valiant efforts in two tough losses last week to Kalamazoo and Hope. 
"I felt like it was a great team effort," Belles head coach Karvn Mackenzie said of her team's performance in th1~ Belles' l'irst game against Albion. "I just thought that the energy was great, that the effort 
several consecu­
tive saves late in the second half to secure the Belles' victory. 
Lauren Hinton currently leads the Belles in goals with eight. Carrie Orr, Sarah DuBree and Ashley Hinton are all tied for first in assists with two apiece. Ashley Hinton takes the crown for shots on net with 41 blasts in nine games. 
Contact Kyle Cassity at kcassily@n<l.edu 
Happy Late Birthday Lizzi SHJ\PPELL!!! 

Write Sports. Call Mike at 1-4543. 
The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 12, 2005 
MLB-NL 

Tracy signs deal w-i~h Pittsburgh 
Manager agrees to lead Pirates after five seasons with Los Angeles 
Associated Press 

PITTSBUHGH -Jim Tracy is moving from one of baseball's biggest markets to one of its smallest, from a team that spends big and thinks big to one with more modest expectations following 13 consecutive losing seasons. 
To Tracy, who signed a three­year contract Tuesday to become the Pittsburgh Pirates' manager after five mostly suc­cessful seasons with thfl Los Angeles Dodgers, it's not the size of the eity or the payroll that mattPrs most but the talent. And he sees the same kind of young talent in Pittsburgh that he saw in Los Angelos in 2001. 
"Challenges are something that I like very, very much," Tracy said. "I like hearing peo­ple say or maybe think that this is a situation you don't have a chance to succPed in, I'm vPry challenged by that." 
Some might view the Pirates' situation as hopeless following a 6 7-95 season, but Tracy sees players such as Jason Bay, pitchers Zach Duke, Paul Maholm and Oliver Perez, cen­ter lielder Chris Dufly and sec­ond baseman Jose Castillo as being ready to win. 
Real soon, too, once they learn the difference between what he calls "the teams that go out and play baseball and those that go out and play winning baseball." 
''I'm looking forward to spear­heading this ballclub to back to some of the days when the Pittsburgh Pirates were some­body you really had to deal with," said Tracy, who watched 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DEPARTMENT OF MUSIC PRESENTS 
h£nb-~MUSIQVE 
CONCERT XXV 



MEDIEVAL CHAN·r AND POLYPHONY FROM PRAGUE 
SCHOLA MUSICC~RUM 
9:30P.M. WEDNESDAY, OCTOHEH. 12, 2005 
REYfS OR\..iAN AND CHORAL HAI.l 
MARif P. DlHAIUULO Ct:NHR FOR !TI[ Pt:Rr<WMIN(; AHT> 
rREt AND Ol't:N TOIIH I'UIHic·
t!NlVERSJTYOF 

TICKHS RH.tLJIRHJ i';;,'t, DEBAR T 0 L 0 
NOTRE DAME 

OEJ>AJtTMENT Oll Ml!SIC I'HUNf. 574-631-280(1 FPR TICKETS '''-~ J; PERFORMING ARTS CENTER 
the Reds-Pirates rivalry while growing up near Cincinnati and playing college baseball at Marietta College, about 120 miles from Pittsburgh. 
''I'm very anxious in making the players understand there is history here, history for them to be proud Qf and history for them to follow up on," he said. 
It hasn't been recent history, with no winning seasons or championships since three con­secutive NL East titles in 1990­
92. Since then, the Pirates have floundered amid several failed rebuilding efforts, poor person­nel decisions and an inability to compete against richer clubs for free agents. 
But after years of promising a youth movement but not deliv­ering one, the Pirates went young during the second half of this season by promoting play­ers such as Duke (8-2, 1.81 ERA), Maholm (3-1, 2.18 ERA) and Dully (.341 in 126 at-bats). They also have Bay, who fol­lowed up last year's NL rookie of the year season by hitting 
· .306 with 32 homers, 101 RBis and 44 doubles, and Castillo, one of the majors' top young infielders. "I think the personnel's here to get it done," Tracy said. "I wouldn't have been interested in this position if I didn't feel very strongly that myself, and the coaching staff, that we can make a difl'erence." 
,. ' 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­Wednesday, October 12, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 19 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Albion overcomes Belles 
Saint Mary's wins first set but loses final three in MIAA match 
lkllns Coach .Julin Sehroednr­
By RYAN KIEFER 
Biek was proud of' her tnam's Spum Wrircr 
perlcmnance in tlw first game. 
"We had the mental edge," 
For one ganw Ttwsday it Sehroednr-Biek said. "We were lookPd like ttw Saint Mary's vol­ready to go and determined to ll'yhall team would send its sen­challenge them tonight. The iors oil' with thrilling upset win. girls got out early and contin­
But the Belles couldn't pull it ued to focus." oil'. as Adrian College ( 15-4, 7-The second game was closely :Jl rebounded f'rorn losing the contested, with the Belles first game to take the match in jumping out to the early lead f'our garnns 25-30, :J0-24, 30-behind consistent defense that 2(), 30-21. included several digs of power­
Af'tnr the B1~lles (IJ-13, 3-71 ful Adrian kill attempts. The 1:ame out flat in a thrne-gamn Bulldogs asserted themselves loss to thn with an 8-1 Bulldogs last run that
"We didn't stay as one
week, thny extended their were deter­unit out there. We weren't ~ad from 16­minml to bring ·r4 to 24-16.
solid working together ... 
morn nnnrgy Five quick
We played well in waves,
and determi­Belles points 
nation to this hut it wasn't enough." shif'ted the final hom1~ momentum match or the back to the
Julie Schroeder-Biek 
s1~ason. Tlwy Saint Mary's
Belles coach 
carne out on an emotional high following een~monies f'or snniors Slwlly Bonder and Talia Matury-Vararo and took an 11­4 lead on the strnngth of' a I0-1 run. Strong serving f'rom 
Krist1m l'layko and dntermined defense put a powerful Adrian tl~am back on its heels. The Bulldogs struggled to find rhythm in their of'f'ense and found tiWillSPIVeS trailing the 
B1~lles 22-14. 
Adrian hit its stride toward tho end of' game onn, using a 9­1 run to rut the Saint Mary's lnad to 24-23. A crudal Belles hloek of' Adrian's Lindsay l·:sl11dman on the next point proJH~tled Saint Mary's to the ganw o1w win. 
CheckingI 
Just one of our many free products and services. 
'tJ~ 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us 
to be better 

574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
of the 
side, but the 

Bulldogs were able to f'end ofT the Belles' surge and tie the match at a game apieee. 
With the game tied 8-8 in the third game, a long point fell the way of the Bulldogs and gave thmn an early lead. They held the lead until the Belles took advantage of' a service error from Eshnlman to go ahead 19­
18. Short serves, however, vic­timiZI~d Saint Mary's at the end of the third game and allowed Adrian to set up easy kills. Thren kills by Eshelman in five points gavn the Bulldogs a 27­23 lead that they rode to vieto­ry. 
Dnl'latnd from their game­three loss, the Belles struggled to find their of'f'ense in the fourth game. Communication errors led to missed kill attempts and put the Belles behind early. The Belles clawed back to cut the Adrian lead to 20-18 following a stellar defnn­sivn point, but they could not muster the momentum to over­take a Bulldog team that never trailed in the match's final game. 
Schroeder-Biek thought a lack of cohesion on the court eontributed to the loss. 
"We didn't stay as one unit out there," she said. "We weren't solid working together. Little things brought people down and prevented us from being consistent. We played well in waves. but it wasn't enough." 
Kristen Playko led the Belles with 18 kills, while Michelle Turloy addnd 16. Anne Cusack contributed 20 digs, while Amanda David had 41 assists. 
The Belles will look to rebound from the loss when they face Alma on the road Saturday. Saint Mary's will play its final six matches on the road this Simson. 
Schroeder-Biek hopes her team will gain confidence from tonight's match and pull togeth­er as a team for the stretch run. 
"They !Adrian) have a very good team," she said. ''I'm very glad to sec we can challenge them. I hope my team sees what it can do if we play together all the way through. I hope we can see our potential." 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer 1 @nd.edu 
MEN'S INTERHALL 
Fisher and St. Ed's to battle for pride today 
By JASON GALVAN and JIM BRADY Sports Wri rers 
The Fisher Green Wave look to end the season at .500 as they race of'f against the St. Edward's Hall Stcdsmen today at Hiehle Fields at 7 p.m. 
Fisher is coming oil' a tough 7­0 loss to Sorin. which put them below the .500 mark and removed them from playofl' con­tention. Fisher captain Jeremy Moreno was displeased with tho turnout of the game but was happy with the team's effort. 
"We were all pretty upset with getting knocked out of' playoff' contention, but I'm not at all upset with how these guys per­formed," Moreno said. 
Sophomore captain Tom Bufalino made mention of' tho several tough breaks his team faced throughout the s1mson. 
"We've had a lot of' key injuries all season, like last week with our QB going down with a concussion and earlier on when we lost our tailback to a leg injury," Buf'alino said. 
"I think we're all a little disap­pointed about thn way things turned out," he said. "There were definitely somn areas where we'll be looking to improve for next yoar, but, all in all, I think we did pretty W11ll." 
St. Ed's is also looking to wrap up its 2005 campaign with a win aft1~r failing to achieve vie­tory all season. Senior eaptain Oliver Gamez still feels his toam is ready to finish the season strong. 
"We'ro looking forward to the game and we'II play our hardest and try to get the win," Gamez said. "We just really noed to foeus. improve what on what we've learned, and really if' we do what we've gotta do wn can 
r ------------------, 
: VERA BRADLEY : 
' 20% off with ND/SMCStu.I.D. 1 
'  '  
:  ~4~~h~h  :  
1  East Bunk Emporium Restaurant Bldg.  1  
I  121 S. Niles Ave., (.574) 232-K488  I  

L------------------J 
Bessette House of Discernment University of Notre Dame Congregation of Holy Cross Brothers of the Midwest Province 
Are you interested in spiritual direction'? 
Would you like a place for solitude for a morning, an afternoon, a full day or a weekend? 
Are you interested in a directed one or two day personal retreat? 
Are you and a group of friends interested in guided reflection upon scripture or discernment of vocation? 
Contact Brother Philip R. Smith, CSC at 574-631-0995 
psmith(ti) broth ersotl10lvcross.co m 
rnally mako a run f'or the win." 
Gamoz, however, was quick to point out that thn f'oeus f'or thn Stndsmen will be on Wednesday's contest. 
"Tomorrow, however, will by no means be a rnbuilding ganH~; wo'rc going out. and playing hard," ho said. 
Zahm vs. Knott 
Zahm and Knott come into this late season matehup at opposite ends of the spectrum with 3-0 and 0-3 roeords respnetivnly. For Zahm, this game is a tune-up for what the team hopes will be a successful postseason run. Zahm eaptain Pat Gourley stressed tho impor­tance of' his team running the ball efl'octivnly, whieh Zahm has beon able to do the last row games. (;ourlny also mentioned the outstanding play or the oflensivo and def'nnsivo lines. 
"They havn been great for both the run and tlw pass," hn said. 
Zahm's grnat play thus far this snason is tlw product of' "both talnnt and lots of' conditioning," Gom·lny said. 
Knott eonws into this match up with a record or o-:~ and is hungry f'or its first win of' tlw soason. Although Knott dons not have a ehaneo to rnarh postslm­son play. captain Dan Gray wants to finish tho soason on a high note. 
"Wo'rn still going to go out there trying to win," hn said. 
This game will also bn about the f'uturn of' Knott llall f'ootball -morn spneif'ieally two out­standing freshman, Justin Bntz and Kovin Smith. Tho Juggorknotts hopo that this game will servo as a warning to both Zahm and tho rnst. of' the league that they will be back as a f'orcn to bn rnekmwd with nnxt snason. 
The two tnams f'ac:n oil' tonight at 8 p.m. 
Contact Jason Galvan at jgalvan@nd.edu and Jim Brady at jbradyI@nd.edu 
..... 
page 20 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 12, 2005 

Everything you need for high-speed Internet access. 

Sign up for the SBC Student Plan SBC Yahoo! DSL Express + ¥ ur Local cc:ess Line 
$ 
75* 
as low as a month for a 9-month term! 
· *Oifler moatfl/y dwrges apply. 
sbc.comlU 1.888.428.0689 
GOING BEYOND THE CALL~ 


Wednesday, October 12, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Farley coach Alex Staffieri. looking drive by McGlinn. Van guaranteed playoff spot." came when Melissa Meagher 
"We moved the ball well, and lloegarden, who on the same found freshman Tara McCarron
Interhall 
continued from page 24 
the gold league playoff's. Welsh Family will have to win its next game against McGlinn to advance to the postseason. 
What is most remarkable about Farley's win is that it caps a run at .500 that the team completed after starting iL<> season 0-3. 
"I'm really proud of us," Farley's Kim Crehan said. "This was our winningest season in long time. We started 0-3, but to eome back was !,'feat." 
Depending on the outeomes of remaining games, Farley eould lind iL<>nlf in iL<; first playoff game in years, due to the Finest offense's awakening in its last tlm~n gamns after a dormant start to tlw year. None of Farley's cur­rent residents have snnn a post­stmson btwth. 
Their passing attack has bonn dominant as of late, and this garnn was no different. Hedevnr and delimsive back Annin Parrett aceou n ted for all of the t1~am's points with two touchdown catch­es and another interception rnturn for a score. Brittany Baron also eontributnd on defense with an interception. 
"The girls stepped up really well Iandi the oll"ensn and defense make me really proud," said their offense moved the ball on us, but our defense was bend not break." 
The Welsh Family team was unhappy with its loss, but is still hoping to make it to the playoffs with a win in its next game. 

"It was really disappointing, just poor execution," Whirlwind coach Ben McClain said. "You saw the first drive -we came out well, but we couldn't follow up." 
McGlinn 0, Pasquerilla West 0 
The McGlinn Shamrocks (4-0-1) marched down the field on a drive that gave them a first and goal on the four yard line. 

The Pasquerilla West (2-1-2) defense stepped up on four con­secutive plays and forced incom­pletions on all four downs to give the Weasel ofl"ense back the ball. The turnover on downs stopped either team's best chance of scor­ing and helped end the game in a 0-0 tie. 
The Wnasnl defimse dominated the game, forcing Shamrock quarterback Becky Brown to throw two interceptions. The first interception came in the first half and was first tipped by defensive lineman Julie Putnam, then caught one-handed by linebacker I leather Van Hoegarden. The sec­ond interception came late in the second half and stopped a strong-drive was called for pass interfer­ence on fourth down, caught the interception over her shoulder to give the ball back to the Weasels. 
"We definitely stepped up on defense tonight," said Pasquerilla West defensive coordinator Joe McCarthy. "The line, the lineback­ers, the defensive backs, every­body." 
As well as the two picks, the Weasel defense also put Brown under pressure on almost every play with two sacks by Putnam. 

The Shamrocks matched the Weasels in stingy defenses. Using a three-man rush, Weasel quar­terback Cara Davies was forced to leave the pocket and hurry her passes on most passing plays. But Davies was too quick for the Shamrock rush and was able to get the pass off more often than not. 
On the Weasel possession fol­lowing the goal line stop, McGlinn was givnn new lifo with an inter­cnption by defensive back Haque! Ferrer. 

But the ofl"ense could not capi­talize, as the Shamrocks gave Pasquerilla West the ball right back with the second Van 1-Ioegarden interception. 
"We would rather have had the win," said Shamrocks offensive coordinator Daniel Gray, "but we are still undefeated and have a 
Pangborn 34, Breen-Philllps 6 
The Phoxes' speedy running game and nflicinnt passing were too much for Breen-Phillips to handln Tuesday night as Pangborn finished off their regular season with a dominating 34-6 victory. 
The bulk of Pangborn's scoring came late in the game when the offense was able to put up three touchdowns in only six offensive plays. The first of the three scores was the result of a well-orches­tratnd drive led by quarterback Katie Mooney. Mooney was 7-f'or-9 on passing attempts f(Jr the game. The scoring play was a pass to receiver Katie Riemersma, who had two touchdowns in the first half. The 15-yard toss to the back of the end zone built a 20-6 lead. 
Th1~ very nnxt ofl"ensive play was a 78-yard touchdown run in which Brynn Johnson left a slew of Babe defenders in the dust. Johnson had a big day running for Pangborn as she and fi~llow run­ningback Katherine Peterson rushed f(Jr a combined total of 120 yards on the day. 
It was Peterson who had the final touchdown as time ran out on an option play from six yards out. 
Breen-Phillips started strongly with an opening drive that went 60 yards for a touchdown and a 6­0 lead out of the gate. The score with a 10 yard pass. The Babes sputtered afterwards, having to punt the ball twice on thnir next two possessions. However, the defense was also playing well ­and after an impressive stop to dose out the half, which included two sacks and a tipped ball at the line of scrimmage, the team was only down 14-6 to the heavily favored Pangborn team. 
Momentum for Brenn-Phillips considernd into the second half when the Babes started out with another long drive down th1~ fidd. Unfortunately, this one tmded as the team was stopped on fourth down at the two-yard line. After this point, the game quickly spi­raled out of rnach and thn Babes ended their season at 0-6. 
Despitn the rough ending to an even rougher season, the team was in high spirits alter the game. 
"Good season," was all Brnen­Phillip's Meagher said after the game, as the rest of the team dedinnd comment. 
Katie Mooney was also brief in her expectations for the team's future. 
"We're going to the stadium," she said about the playoff.<;. 
Contact Tim Kaiser at tkaiser@nd.edu, Jay Fitzpatrick at jpitzpa5@nd.edu and Dan Murphy at dmurphy6@nd.edu 
NO WOMEN'S GOLF 
Lee, Brophy pace Irish vvith 220' s in Shootout at Legends 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Spons Writer 
Jarw Lee and Katie Brophy both shot 220s lbr the tournament and the Irish meorded three straight rounds under 300 for the first time evor, but it wasn't enough to win the Shootout at the Legends Monday and Tuesday at the Legends of Indiana Golf Course in Franklin, Ind. 
Notre Dame fmishr~d fourth with a total score of 890, just one stroke behind third place Missouri. The Irish came into the third round in third place, but a very strong round by Illinois State gave the Hedbirds a dramatic come-from-behind victory, two strokes ahead of Kent State, and pushed Notre Dame back to fourth. 
Notre Dame won last year's event with three-day score of 901, but was unable to repeat despitn improving by 11 strokes this year. 
Irish head coach Debby King said she was disappointed by the result. 
"It was our team goal to win, even though Kent State and 
2005-2006 Law& ... 

an interdisciplinary colloquium series presents 
Potential and Pitfalls of Social Security Reform Presenter: Teresa Ghilarducci Department of Economics and Policy Studies 
Commentator: Matthew J. Barrett The Law School 
October 12 4:30p.m. Law School classroom 120 
Missouri are ranked ahead of us," King said. "We f{~lt like we could win, and we proved that by being on their butt<> all day." 
Scores were low as a whole in the tournament. Illinois State's vic­tory came with a combined score of 886, with the Golden Flashes just behind at 888. Both teams had astonishingly low third-round scores, with the Hedbirds carding a 288 and the Flashes a 287. 
"We can't say we lost the tour­nament, it's more that we won it," King said of the competition. 
The Legends course is well known for its forgiving angles and lack of trees. 
"It's a very open course, so you can hit it in a lot of different places and still put it on the green," King said. "[fournaments there are] all about putting." 
Lee and Brophy led the Irish with scores of 220. Lee's 70-75-75 
RPt.111 

was a personal best for three rounds. 
Lisa Maunu, Lauren Gebauer and Noriko Nagazaki also compet­ed for the Irish. 
Indiana senior Katie Carlson provided the highlight of the tour­nament whrm she bemme the first Hoosier women's golfer to sink a hole-in-one. The Hoosiers finisht~d tied for 11th. 
The field of 18 teams consisted of Ball State, Campbell, Cineinnati, Eastern Michigan, Georgetown, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Louisville, Northern Illinois, Ohio, Hutgers, St. John's, Southern Illinois and Toledo, in addition to the Irish, Hedbirds, Tigers and Flashes. 
The Irish will next be in aetion Oct. 17 in the Lady Hazorback Invitational in Fayettnville, Ark. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

IMMEDIATE INTERVIEWS 
MONDAY THROUGH SATURDAY 8am-7pm 
Now Hiring 
Sales, Stock & Cashiers 
• Full/Part-lime needed 
Bed Bath & Beyond. one of the nation"s leading specialty retail chains. has immediate full/part-time positions for our soon-to-open SOUTH BEND location. We are looking for energetic and ambitious individuals who are looking to grow with a leader. Previous retail experience is preferred. but we"re willing to train. 
Bed Bath & Beyond • Hiring Site Erkskine Plaza 1290 East Ireland Rd. South Bend, IN 46614-3449 For directions, please call: (574) 231-8921 
Interested in Management Opportunities? Please submit your resume to: Bed Bath & Beyond, Attn.: HR, 31075 Orchard Lake Rd., Farmington Hills, Ml 48334. Fax: (248) 626-6517 or E-mail: Jim.Wathen@bedbath.com 
BED BATH&
BEYONK»(IO 
Beyond ony store olits kind."' 
EOE 


r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Wednesday, October 12, 2005 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
psyche themselves out mentally." 
Landri is familiar with winning streaks. He played for De La Salle High School in Concord, Calif., which held a national record 125­game winning streak when he graduated. 
"Mentally, you have to know that they have a lot of talent, but we're just as good," he said of the mindset he takes to the USC match up. 
Irish safety Chinedum Nduwke took note of the Trojan offense, which averages 640 yards of total offense per game. 
"You can't really be intimidated in general, but you have to respect them," Nduwke said. 
And so to motivate his players, Weis began with what he deemed the "magic" number-31. 
"I think the first thing you have to do is embarrass them," Weis said. "We all know the magic number 31. We all know that number. So I basically told them, 'You're already down 31, let's see where we cart go from there ­let's see if we ean close the gap a little bit."' 
Running back Darius Walker said he doesn't think the No. 9 Irish doubt the fact they can beat the Trojans. 

"We understand that if we can just go out there and play our part, we can beat these guys," Walker said Tuesday. "All the talk in our off week was that we can play with these guys. That's what has changed so much about this team is our confidence. Our confi­dence is so high right now that we feel like we can play with any­body." 
Finding a way to beat USC has been the focus since the Oct. 1 win against Purdue, as last week the Irish had their first bye week of the season. Weis acknowledged that this extra time has not only helped him preparation-wise, but also given his team a chance to rest physically. 
And so now Notre Dame begins the first of a five-game stretch at Notre Dame Stadium. 
"We're looking forward to this home game stretch," defensive end Chris Frome said. "We don't have another away game until after Thanksgiving, I think, so it'd be nice to start it off with a big win against USC." 
To do so, the Irish will have to play their best football against a team with two Heisman Trophy candidates in quarterback Matt Leinart and running back Reggie Bush. 
"They've got firepower, and you have to try to negate some of that firepower," Weis said. "We are going to have to play very well. We're going to have to play at the top of our game to have a chance of winning. You've got to take care of the football, hope some things go your way. But that's why you play the game, because just because those stats, that doesn't mean it's a lock as to who wins and who loses." 

Notes: 
+ A number of Irish players were recruited by the Trojans, including Landri and Walker. Landri chose Notre Dame because of its tradition. 
"Notre Dame, just the overall tradition and the kind of place it is here [was the final factor]," Landri said. 
For Walker, it came down to the Irish and the Trojans. 
"It's an interesting game for me because I could be on the other side," he said. 
But in the end it was Notre Dame's academics that lured the Georgia native away from the West Coast. 
"What made me come here was the education part," Walker said. "And being able to become an overall person, an overall man, an overall individual coming to a place like this. I mean Notre Dame is one of those schools where you can't pass this up. You'd be kinda crazy to pass this up." 
+ Walker's dad Jimmy played for USC head coach Pete Carroll during Carroll's tenure at Arkansas, where Jimmy Walker was a defensive lineman. Carroll was a graduate assistant for then­head coach Lou Holtz in 1977. Led by the former Irish coach, the Razorbacks finished 11-1 and went to the Orange Bowl. 
"He had good things to say about [Carroll]," Darius said of his dad's relationship with Carroll. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 
Lapira recorded six of the shots while Nate Norman had four.
Tie 
"Joe always works tremen­continued from page 24 dously hard; he did a great 
job," Clark said. "Nate certain­ing really hard to win it," Clark ly got some shots away, maybe said. "We forced both the over­just a little more control when times -Notre Dame was the he got into that shooting posi­team looking to win the game." tion, we might have pulled 
The Irish were off-balance at something out." times throughout the game, Defensively, the Irish had but Clark felt that they con­their sixth shutout of the sea­trolled the pace son, all attributed for most of the to goalkeeper 
play. "Into the overtime Chris Cahill. "I felt it took a I thought we were "Chris Cahill did little while to set­well, he com­
looking very, very
tle, but the sec­manded -he's
solid."
ond half of the always been sav­first half l ing well but I thought we were thought he looked
Bobby Clark 
excellent," he a much more
Irish coach 
said. "[But it commanding fig-seems likel what-ure in today's ever I said to them at halftime game," Clark said. "He talked didn't work, because we loudly and just generally had opened up the first 15 minutes good presence." of the second half -we really Dale Rellas was out again struggled, we turned the ball with an injury, putting Greg over._" Dalby back on defense. 
The Irish quickly reeovered "Those two guys [Dalby and to find a number of good seor­Ben Crouse) did very well," ing chances. Clark said-. "I thought Ryan 
"Then we found our feet Miller did well also at right again and once we did that, I back. He put a lot of energy thought we were exeellent," into the game, a lot of ell'ort." Clark said. "Into the overtime I The Irish have three more thought we were looking very, road games before returning very solid, we maybe could home to finish the season have snuck out of there with a against Indiana and conference win." foe Seton Hall. 
The Irish outshot the Spartans 18-11 and had sever­Contact Kate Gales at al good ehances to score. Joe kgales@nd.edu 
lafayette Square Townhlomes 
4 and 5 bedrooms on 3 levels of living all including: 
• Dishwashers 
• 
Washers and Dryers 

• 
ADT Security Systems 


*NEW MANAGEMENT SPECIAL* 
Only $210 Per Person For the first 10 Apartments Leased for the 06-0 7 School Year 
574-233-5704 or Nicole_Soko@hotmai l.com 
Trojans 
continued from page 24 
final scores point to an ineontro­vertible fact. 
"They are the best team in the country right now," Notre Dame defensive end Chris Frome said Tuesday. "They are the most tal­ented team in the country. But any team is heatable on any given day, and USC has shown some weaknesses on offense as well as defense." 
Those weaknesses include fail­ing to put teams away early. 
In a Sept. 24 road meeting with then-No. 24 Oregon, USC fell behind 13-10 at half before rattling off a 35-0 second half for the 45-13 victory. The next week, against No. 14 Arizona State, the Trojans succumbed to a 21-3 halftime deficit and then rallied to win by 10 points. 
But for every one of those slow starts, there is also a 42-10 half­time lead over Arkansas on Sept. 

17 that continued to turn into an embarrassing 70-17 rout. 
USC coach Pete Carroll said Tuesday he is more concerned about the end result than how his team arrives there. 
"You can't win in the first quarter," Carroll said. "You can't win in the second quarter. It takes you a while to get these games won. We'd like to play perfectly, and we're working on it. But of all things I want to flo­ish [games] well." 
Though the Trojans' offense has seen stagnant stretches, Leinart, running back Heggie Bush and company average 640 yards per game-"unheard of," Leinart said. That number is higher than the NCAA record of 624.9, set by Houston in 1989. 
And as Notre Dame coach Charlie Weis sarcastically described USC's firepower in his Tuesday press conference: "[LenDale Whitel only averages 
7.6 [yards! a carry. So there is a big drop off from that 8.5 that Reggie [Bush] averages." 
The Trojans bring weapons, but it is USC's defense that gives its offense the ball, the time to accumulate such statistics and the ability to turn first-half close games into second-half blowouts. 
The defense has 13 takeaways on fumble reeoveries (3) and interceptions (10), turnovers that immediately result in points or long drives by the USC offense. 
"We're playing good football teams that know us well," Carroll said. "Nobody's rolling over and letting us just go. We play good teams in this [Pae-1 0 J conference. They can move the ball like crazy-on offense. The challenges are huge. 
"We're just trying to get by. I can't do anything about the style points. It ain't easy. This is an enormous matchup with a very, very well-coaehed [Notre Dame] football team. I love that we have this match right now." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

Looking for an Opportunity to Mak:e a Difference? 
CIA's Directorate of Intelligence will be interviewing candidates for Analyst Positions. 
Representatives from CIA's analytical arm, the Directorate of Intelligence, will be interviev.ring for analyst positions in Chicago during the week of November 14th. Analysts work on the forefront of protecting national security, quickly assessing how rapidly changing international developments will impact US interests at home and abroad. They use information from classified and unclassified sources from around the world to develop and provide the reliable intelligence that is essential for US policymakers to make informed decisions. The Dl is hiring for the following positions: 
• 
Analytic Methodologist • Economic, Political, Leadership • Psychological/Psychiatric 

• 
Collection Analyst and Military Analysts Analyst 

• 
Counterintelligence • Science, Technology and • Crime and Counternarcotics Threat Analyst Weapons Analyst Analyst 

• 
Counterterrorism Analyst • Medical Analyst 


Candidates must have at least a bachelor's degree with a minimum GPA of 3.0. language skills, previous foreign area residence or crave!, and relevant work experience are pluses. Candidates 
must successfully complete a medical examination, polygraph interview, and an extensive 
background investigation. All positions require US citizenship and relocation to the Washington, DC area. 
The CIA is America's premier intelligence agency, and we are committed to building and maintaining a work force as diverse as the nation we serve. 
For additional information, and to apply online, please visit www.cia.gov. Successful appiicmts who have submitted their resume by October 17th will be contacted to attend an information session and arrange a local area interview. 
An equal opportunity employer and a drug-free work force. 


CROSSWORD  WILLSHORTZ  
ACROSS  41 Names hidden  69 Marketing intro?  
Popular pens 5 No trouble  in 17-, 25-, 51­and 65-Across (twice in the last  70 It goes in the middle of the table  
9 Stopped dead  of these)  71  Devi<;~ted,  in a  
14 Gray's subj. 15 It may be gray 16 Upscale wheels  44 Primitive fishing tool 45 "Awright!" 46 "Java" blower  way 72 Did too much 73 Brayers rival  
17 Split (with)  47 Public works  DOWN  
19 Not straight  project  1 Amount from  
20 Old brand advertised by  49 Kentucky Derby prize  which to figure sale profit  
Bucky Beaver  51 "I can't find a  2 Ham-fisted  
21 Level  thing to watch!"  3 Procession  
23 Devil's take? 24 N.L. cap stitching 25 Showing no pity  56 Cable choice 59 Avian source of red meat 60 Come down hard  4 British gun 5 Put away 6 "Exodus" hero 7 Take care of  
29 Minos' land 31 Status 32 Actor Morales 34 Investigator, at  61 Radical Hoffman 63 Hawked items 65 Procedure for a burn victim, perhaps  8 Late name in Mideast politics 9 Eruptions 10 Emeritus: Abbr. 11 Rust, e.g.  
times  68 Rush-hour  12 Relatives of the  38 Pajama part  51 Breezily  62 Highlands  
37 Treated roughly  subway action  Xhosa  39 Boot one  informative  hillside  
13 _Park, Colo.  52 City on the  
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE  18 Not turning up  40 Summer hrs.  Missouri  64 Party time, maybe 
much  42 Knocked  53 "One L" author  
22 Shingle abbr.  around  54 Zest  66 du Diable  
26 Suffix with  43 Send off  55 Ticked off  67 _Brooks,  
kitchen 27 Labor leader George 28 Can't abide  48 Telephone trigram 50 Run producer  57 Peachy-keen 58 Parisian thinkers?  1950's-60's "Meet the Press" moderator  
30 Mideast capital  


Wednesday, October 12, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 
JOCKULAR 
CROISSANTWORLD 
AFTt'-f':. "{l:tE IMC..LU.':>ION 
OF I$R.OI\DBAND INTE!:>.MET, 
FILM (OU~"'E.S, ANt> 2.. Nt:.w !:>TUD'f AIS~OJ\.b 
P~Oui'!AMS, \ AM HAPP'j 
It> f-"1-E\/E:AL -n-tt:. I'IIE..wE.Sf 
~IDE oF SAINI MAR'{.>­
lWO NE-'-"1 \.I EN DIN lt 
I"''At.HINES. 

ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 
ADAM FAIRHOLM 
I1-1£SE. "E:-1'1011'-l u MAO-It!'!£:.~ HAVE fl.. \'RE1\'j L<oOI> .::.E-LE.(.TtON e>F <.1·\IPS. ~rFU::~ IHAT ::,0~YA oH IN U: Pop TA~~ · NUl" 

JUMBLE 

Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
REWAY 
rJ 
1 

~005 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
KULFE 
1 
rJ lu 
DELIRB 
1 
rJ 

www.JUmble.com 
A: TOTHE[ 
Jumbles:
Yesterday's 
Answer: 

ASSAY 
When the paparazzi angered the teen idol, his fans found him -ALL THE "RAGE" 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARC IRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Argirion 
One of FruiN with our best 

WHERE: THE: C.ON­N0155£:UR WE:NT 
FOR A GOOD 
C.ABE:RNIT. 
Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above cartoon. 
(Answers tomorrow) 
GRAVE BEAGLE HALLOW 

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a32 Golfer called credit card, 1-800-814-5554."the Big Easy" Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday33 Tree yield 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. -=t-:::-t':::+::::+.::-1 35 Having lour Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 sharps past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 36 _ poker (bar Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young game) solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CELEIJRITIES HORN ON HilS DAY: Michdlt: Tradltcnbcrg, 20; l.ukc Perry, 40; Joan Cusack, 43; Ron Leibman, Ml 
Happy Hirthday: You will have some unique ideas this year, and you must put some of them into motion. Taking action has been hard for you in the past. It you really want to get somewhere, stop waiting I(Jr someone else to get you started. Your numbers arc 18, 26, 29, 31, 33,45 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Chances arc you will be blind to what is actually going on in your personal life. Focus on whal has lo he done lo conlinue moving i(Jrward professionally. You can't change the way things an: al homc, so put your energy into your work. ** TAURUS (Apri120-May 20): Business trips or meetings will lurn out in your favor. You can get things started that could lead to a little extra cash. You may he feeling anxious, but ifyou conccntmte on what it is you arc trying to accomplish, you will fed satistaction instead. • ••• • GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): Don't take a chance with your money. Someone may try to talk you into spending more than you have. You can have fun without going overboard. Love and romance look very prom ising. * * * CANCER (.June 21-July 22): You'll he emotionally spent today. Nothing will he going your way, so stop trying to li1rce things to happen. Time is on your side --the changes may not be to your liking, but they will he to your henetit in the end.** LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't let personal issues allcet your work. Not ev.:ryone who offers you advice will know what he or she is talking about. Figure things out for yourself and you will make an impressive statement. ••• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't be erratic; you may need a change, hut he organized about it. Creative ideas at work could easily lead to a helter position. Redecorating or renovating your home is a great idea. ***** LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may start to feel uncertain about your personal life ifthings haven't been going according to plan, Someone is probably keeping secrets from you. Get to the bottom of the problem beli.1re it's too late. Question your own motives. ** SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Educational pursuils will be inforn1ative but not necessarily helpful in your present situation. Don't believe everything you hear. You probably know more than the person who is giving you intormation. ***" SAGITTARI US (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Ifsomething sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Don't get sucked into paying f(Jr other people. You will have more fun if everyone pays his or her own way. l'ul your money in a safe place. *** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't get all worked up over nothing. Deal with each issue as it arises. Taking on too much will cost you in the end. Someone from your past may lead you in the wrong direction. ** AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Don't deny yourself the chance to try something new. A love connection can be made ifyou get involved in volunteer work. Do for others and you will forget about your own problems. • • • PISCES (Feb. 19-M arch 20): Your thinking is right, but your actions aren't. Follow through with your plans ifyou want things to progress. Don't let a poor relationship stifle your plans or pul you in a bad mood. ***" 
Birthday Baby: You are proud, quick-minded and very much in control. You have an adventurous nature but a practical way of doing things. You arc willing to work hard to reach your goals. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comjiJr.frm, eugeniala.w.comjiJr confidential mn.wltation., 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
.. .· . 
"'.'. ~ 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, October 12, 2005 
page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Fourth and long 

Despite efforts like stopping Carson Palmer short of the goal line in 2002, left, and Anthony Fasano's completing a dramatic diving catch in 2003, center, Southern California players have celebrated like these two in 2004 against Notre Dame. The Irish have suffered three straight 31-point losses to the Trojans. 
Weis works to prepare Irish to take on dominant Trojans 
By HEATHER VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Writer 
After taking over a team that had lost to USC by 31 points three straight years in a row, Notre Dame head eoach Charlie Weis had some convincing to do during last week's bye week. 
"My biggest job was getting the team to believe they have a chance to win the game," Weis said. "Just getting them to believe they had a chance to win the game is easier said than done." 
Weis said this after he spent a good seven minutes Tuesday rattling off facl'i about the No. 1 Trojans, including mentioning the Trojans' 27-game win streak that dates baek to 2003 when USC lost to California 34-31 in triple overtime. 
And senior defensive tackle and California native Derek Landri acknowl­edged that a lot of times teams beat them­selves before even stepping on the field to play the Trojans. 
"This game's a very mental game," Landri said. "A lot of times [USC] will beat a team before they play because they just 
see IRISH/page 22 
After back-to-back titles, USC con1mands rivals' respect 
By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
USC quarterback Matt Leinart was a top recruit out of high school but never once considered playing for his universi­ty's rival. 
"[Notre Dame] didn't recruit me out of high school," Leinart said in a Tuesday afternoon teleconference. "[Former Irish coach Bob] Davie was there, and they ran the option. That's not really my forte." 
As if he had to clarify. The option-less Trojans have created plenty of offensive options behind Leinart's Heisman Trophy-winning arm. 
"He's one of the more flawless quarter­backs that I've ever seen," Notre Dame free safety Chinedum Ndukwe said. 
USC has averaged just ovm 51 points in its first five games. Leinart is complet­ing 65 percent of his passes and has 12 touchdown tosses to three interceptions. The Trojans have not appeared domi­nant in many first half showings, but their record, their statistics and their 
see TROJANS/page 22 

WOMEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL-GOLD LEAGUE 
Farley wins third straight game 
By TIM KAISER, 
JAY FITZPATRICK and DAN 
MURPHY 
Sports Writers 
Farley's defense finished what il'i ofl'ense started, and when the game was over, the Finest came out on top by a scorn of 19-6. 
Welsh Family quarterback Melissa Sands hit n~ceiver Kelly Bushelle for a touchdown on their opening drive, but the Whirlwind ollfmse was unable to muster another score for the remainder of the game. Meanwhile, the Farley offense rolled again, scoring three touch­downs for their third straight game -also their third straight win. 
The game was an important contest for both teams, and Farley's final 3-3 record puts th11m in a good position to make 
see INTERHALL/page 21 


MEN'S SOCCER 
Cahill posts sixth shutout i~n 0-0 tie 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
After 110 minutes of play, there was nothing to show for it. 
The Irish again statistically dominated an opponent but were unable to pull out a win, tying the Spartans 0-0 in East Lansing on Tuesday. 
"At the·end of the day, a tie was maybe the deserved score, even thought sta­tistically maybe we had the bet­ter of the game," head coach Hobby Clark said. 


The tie puts Notre Dame's record at 7-4-2. The Spartans, defending Big Ten champions, are 4-3-5. 
"It was a 0-0 tie, it was on11 of these games," Clark said. "We had some good moments; we had some moments whP.re we didn't connect as well as we would have liked." 
The Irish have struggled to lind the net this season and have played seven games with at least one overtime period. 
However, their determination and strength of character arn something Clark has comm11nted on throughout the season. 
"The one thing I would be proud of the team, they kept try-
see TIE/page 22 


NO WOMEN'S GOLF SMC VOU..EVBAU. 
MEN'S INTERHAU. 

MEN'S INTE~HAU. 
SMC SOCCER 
MlB-Nl Brophy, Lee lead 
Belles fall in five Fisher vs. St. Ed's Knott vs. Zahm Saint Mary's at 

Houston at St. Irish in Shootout 
to Albion Albion 

Louis Today, 7 p.m. 
-Today, 8 p.m. 
The Irish finished Saint Mary's couldn't Fisher hopes to end its 
Today, 4 p.m.

Knott looks to make a 
In a rematch of last fourth in the Shootout 
pull off a win in the season at .500 with a 

The Belles battle for 
year's NLCS, the wild­at the Legends Tuesday. 
strong showing despite 
match honoring the 

win over the Stedsmen. 
position in the MIAA 
card Astros take on their team's seniors. 
being eliminated from today against Albion. 
division rivals the Cardinals. 

the postseason. 
page 21 page 19 page 18 page 18 
page 17 .. 
page 18 
. .
~ ~ 





