
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Three tnain issues etnerge in catnpaigning 
Student trustee, off-campus living, event programing dominate platform discussion 
By AMANDA MICHAELS A<Sisranr N~ws Editor 
It was all about DVDs and SYHs in 2004. But 2005 is a whole new Boggle game. 
In this year's student body presidential elections, the alphabet soup of key cam­paign issues is chock full of "BOT" and "OC," with just a dash of "U2" for flavor. 
On a self-contained campus where students aren't afraid to make their needs known, somn platform repetition betwt~en candidates is inevitable. If there is one, maybe two, dominant desires or displeasures voiced by the populace, then a ticket look­ing to address voter concerns would wisely include these in their campaign platform. 

This year, however. at least three significant issues have made their way onto the same four tickets' platforms -a situation that either gives candidates a chance to boast that "great minds think alike," or recognizes the importance of certain ideas to the University's future and the student body. 
In their unabbreviated form, the key campaign promises are: the addition of a student member to the Board of Trustees; the improvement of various aspects of off-campus life, such as town-gown rela­tionships and student safety; and the creation of an endow­ment to fund more concerts and speakers -around which the promise of U2 swirls. 
The fact that each ticket chose a slightly different approach to each issue places a greater burden on the vot­ers, who must be responsibly acquainted with the subjects at hand if they hope to deter­mine which variation is best for them. 
Student Trustee 
In Feb. 2000, Board of Trustees report chairman John Obsorn and vice chair Mark Donahey received the Student Senate's resounding approval to include a section in their upcoming presenta­tion on the benefits of adding a student representative to the BOT. 
With no serious action taken for the next four years. the suggestion resurfaced last year in the Charlie Ebersol­James Leito platform. During the campaign. Ebersol said his objective was to have the , student body president sit on the Board of Trustees so there would be a student voice in 
sec ISSUES/page 4 



Teach for America popular choice 
ND students drawn to teaching program 
By EILEEN DUFFY A.ISisranr News Editor 
Teach for America has issued a call to address the educational injustice in this nation. and eager young col­legt~ students are responding with thousands of applications yearly. Notre Dame students are no exception -they aceounwd for 24 of the 2000 accepted applicants last year, and this year's October dead­line saw 49 students apply compared to last year's 27. 
Teach for Anwrica is a two­year postgraduate serviee organization that seeks to lovnl the nducational playing 
sec PROGRAM/page 6 


Legends redecorated -with ND mem_orabilia 
menu, we came with names for items based on Notre Dame lore." 
Diners can now order such items as a dessert known as "Divine Intervention" off the desert menu, which is called "Dulc.cdo," from the Latin word for sweetness. 
A flat-iron steak is now­referred to as "Nieuwland's own," after the botanist and priest who lent his name to the science build­ing. There is a pasta dish known as the "Luigi Bowl," in homage to Luigi Gregori, the famed Italian artist who became art director at Notre Dame in 1876 and painted the rotunda of the 
see LEGENDS/page 8 
NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 

Coca-Cola challenge under-way 

BETH WERNETflhe Observer A student buys a drink from a Coca-Cola machine In Pangborn. 
By KATIE SCARLETT O'HARA News Writer 
Coca-Cola Enterprises is sponsoring a new campus wide competition, offering $2,000 to the dorm that con­sumes the most Coke prod­ucts per resident. 
"Our promotions in the past few years have not been much success." said Judah Wilson, campus market rep­resentative for Coca-Cola. "I think this will be ·successful because it benefits the whole dorm." 
Wilson said Coca-Cola offered two $500 travel pack­ages through Anthony Travel and $1.000 in other prizes last year to students who scratched off the winning bottle caps. 
"About 20 T-shirts were picked up but no one claimed the grand prizes. No one was interested," Wilson said. "Promotions have been going on for years. but students don't seem to benefit." 
In response. Wilson, Food Services and Coca-Cola met to brainstorm new ways to drive sides and promote the product. They decidt~d to give prize money to dorms instead of individual students because of what Wilson pPr­ceives to be a strong dorm atmosphere on campus. 
"Notre Dame is a commu­nity built around dorms. You're a member of a dorm and then an Nil student," Wilson said. "!Two thousand dollarsl is a nice littln chunk of cash and dorms can dnridn what they want to do with it ... dorm party, I>VD players. whatever they need." 
In addition to the grand prize, one $1,000, onr $500. three $250 and !'our $100 prizes will be award!HI to top-placing dorms. Tlw money f'ot' the prizns comes from Coca-Cola's prestig•~ account with Notre Dame. 
"A prestige account means [a company is) willing to not 
sec COKEf page 8 



Experience provides invaluable training 
By EILEEN DUFFY Assistanr News Edi ror 

The story is a familiar one: teachers impact the lives of their students in new and fantastic ways; students, in return, educate their teachers -though not always in the academic sense of the term. 
Teach for America corps mem­bers are no exception. The impact that these graduates have had on various underprivileged youth is undeniable, but in the end, the corps members can't shake the memories. Are they impacted more than their students? 
Take Brad Leon. for example. Now the Teach for America 
see TEACH/page 6 

By JOHN EVERETT 
News Writer 
In an effort to become a more integral part of the 
N o t-r e  Dame  c ul t u r e ,  
Legends  -the on-campus  
bar and  restaurant  - has  

undergone a recent image makeover. including a revamped menu and some eye-catching wall displays. 
"We wanted to create more of a Notre Dame experience, and this was a good way to do it," Legends representative Keith Leek said. "We've added the Wall of History and a bunch of jerseys around the pub to make a timeline, mostly of sports, but other stuff as well. With the 
Wednesday, February 2, 2005 
page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Least favorite 

Monday 
There are now officially five more days until my least favorite Monday of the year. 
The day after the Super Bowl, which this year falls on Feb. 7, 2005. It is rapidly approaching, and there is nothing I can do about it. 
It's like moving in your short stack, on the button with kings only to see the big blind flip over aces. It would be easy to complain, but instead you are 
better off smil-Bobby Griffin ing, shrugging your shoulders, 
and accepting Sports Writer your fate -even if you are a 4 to 1 dog. 
In a sense, the day after the Super Bowl is a lot like the result of this given scenario. 
I am a huge football fan, bigger than most, and my close friends can attest to this. Not only do I watch my hometown team, the New York Giants, with extreme intensity, but I also pay close attention to every other game on the schedule for some perverse reason. 
I spend the majority of the regu­lar season on my futon, Subway in front of me, and discarded "soda" cans around the room that, despite my convictions, will not find their way to the garbage. 
I rarely miss a game. The NFL becomes my life from September through early February. 
The playoffs roll around in early January, and they usually provide a few of the best games of the sea­son. This year was no exception, although the Steelers did not hold up their end of the bargain against New England. 
Yet, when it comes to the Super Bowl, rarely do you get a game sat­isfying enough that it provides the appropriate culmination to the reg­ular season. Since I've been watch­ing football, I have seen a few good ones. including last year's classic between the Pats and the Panthers. 
But that's just it: like a poker tournament, when you pick up a big hand and move ali-in, and then realize you are 19 percent to win the hand, the Super Bowl hardly ever measures up to its anticipa­tion. 
However, you do get lucky some of the time -or else there would be no sense in hoping. 
Hopefully next Monday morning, after a historic Super Bowl XXXIV, I will have the same feeling as I would from flopping the king and winning the pot despite the odds. 
If not, I will be left with a lonely walk back to my room after the aces held up, bare of everything except anticipation of what is to come in the future. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgrif­fi3@nd.edu 
CORRECTION 
Due to a reporting error, an article in the Feb. I issue ofThe Observer said Saint Mary's spokesman Melanie McDonald would nor comment on whether or not the alleged suspect in an incident of alleged assault in Le Mans Hall Jan. 30 is a Notre Dame student. McDonald confirmed he is not a Notre Dame student. The Observer regrets the error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ISSUE WOULD YOU MOST LIKE TO SEE STUDENT GOVERNMENT WORK ON? 






Peter Sarpong  Jenna Linder  Alex Garcia  
junior  senior  senior  
Sarin  off-campus  off-campus  
"Meal plans­ "Meal plans.  "Meal plans- 
I'm not in favor  We get ripped  just give us a  
offlex 10  off."  final answer  
because it will  and let it be  
reduce the  done."  
variety ofthe  
dining hall. "  

Mistake with button calls for evacuation of Conn. 
HARTFORD, Conn. ­Despite what residents may have seen on television, the state of Connecticut was not ordered evacuated Tuesday. 
State emergency man­agement officials believe someone pressed the wrong button, and instead of running a test of the emergency alert system, midday television viewers and radio listeners were told that the state was being evacuated. 
"There is absolutely no evacuation or state emer­
gency,"  said  Kerry  
TODAY  
0::  


number one in the country, why can't they renovate LaFun's?" 

from his yard was sen­tenced to three years in prison. 
Alan Wayne Davis, 49, had been placed on house arrest in September after serving nearly a year in prison for illegal dumping and creating and maintain­ing a public nuisance. 
On Monday, a judge sen­tenced Davis to three years in prison for violations of his house arrest, including failing to return home from work on time and keeping part of a World War II fighter plane in his yard. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Flaherty, of the Office of Emergency Management. "It was an erroneous mes­sage." 
The department was investigating how the alert was sent. Officials said it is manually released to broadcasters. 
The error prompted Gov. 
M. Jodi Rell to issue a statement reassuring resi­dents. 
Man again sent to prison for junk in yard 
SANFORD, Fla.-A man who defied officials for more than 13 years by refusing to remove air­plane parts and other junk 

TONIGHT THURSDAY FRIDAY 
LLI 
::c 
~ 
LLI 

~ 
...I 
<
(.) 0 


...I HIGH 34 HIGH 17 HIGH 37 LOW 30 LOW 10 LOW 23 

HIGH LOW 

Lizett Martinez  Tori Blalney  Jacob Benedict  
senior McGlinn  senior off-campus  sophomore Fisher  
"The bathrooms in LaFortune. If the Dome's are  "Senior lounge on campus, like in the O.C"  "Notre Dame could use some bigger names  

on campus for 
student programming ­speakers, musicians, and comedians. " 
IN BRIEF 

The Notre Dame women's bas­ketball team will take on Boston College today from 7 to 9 p.m. today in the Joyce Center Arena. 
The University will offer blood pressure and body fat screen­ings conducted by ProHealth, 
LLC. for faculty and staff today from 11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the old Security Building. 
Theology professor Todd Whitmore will speak about "Catholic Social Teaching and Interreligious Dialogue" today from 7 p.m. to 8:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The talk is sponsored by the Program in Catholic Social Teaching's series on "Comparative Beligious Social Ethics." 
Ruth Mazo Karras. from the University of Minnesota, will give a lecture on "Clerical Chastity and Medieval Masculinities" Thursday from 5 p.m. to 6:15 
p.m. in 715 Hesburgh Library. The talk is sponsored by tlH~ Medieval Institute. 
Allison Truitt of Cornell University will give a lecture entitled "Dollars are for Keeping: Economic Reforms and the Limits to State" on Friday from 11:45 a.m. to 1 p.m. in 119 O'Shaughnessy Hall. The lecture is sponsored by the department of anthropology. 
The film "Maria Full of Grace" will be shown on Friday at 7 p.m. and 10 p.m. in Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event lo obsnews@nd.edu. • 
SATURDAY SUNDAY 

36 
29 


HIGH LOW 

Wednesday, February 2, 2005 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

College choir to perfortn in L.A. 
Saint Mary's women's choir to singfor first time at National Convention 
Professors participate inVista pilot program 

By DANIELLE LERNER 
News Writer 
For' the first time in College history, the Saint Mary's women's choir will perform alongside thH top choirs in the nation this week at the American Choral Directors Association National Convention in Los Angeles, Calif. 
Under the guidance of Nancy Menk. conductor and music department chair at Saint Mary's College, the choir will stay in Los Angeles Fnb. 2-6 and perform three times, including at the new Walt Disney Concert Hall. 
Whiln the choir has enjoyed many prnstigious performanc­es during the years, including national tours, state conven­tions and concerts at Carnegie Hall in 1999 and 2001, this week's Convention tops the list for both faculty and students. 
"This is truly the first time the College has gone to the American Choral Directors Association National Convention," said junior and three-year choir member Kathryn Karr. "It is by far a once in a lifetime opportuni­ty." 
"lt is a lot of fun to get to such a refined level," said Menk. "We don't often get to sing for thousands of people who really know what we do." 
The choir submitted three unidentified recordings to the Association in order to be considered for the Convention. Chosen solely on talent, the 42-member choir will be one of the honored few in the women's group. 
"I think we have a good program, with lots of bal­ance," said Menk. "I wanted music we knew very well in order to give the best per­formance we could." 
Far from the small, intimate performances of the choir, the Convention will reveal them to more than 1,000 cond uc­tors, professors. Association members and singers. 
Antidpation continued to build as the choir finished up its final rehearsals in prepa­ration for today's departure. Kathleen Douglass, a senior and four-year choir member, 
is looking forward to the 
unique experience. 
"We are all so excited to go ·to Los Angeles and perform with the other groups," said Douglass. "We hope people not only recognize our strong music department, but also the talent that comes from this school." 
Junior and three-year choir 
member Lauren Condon feels 
these performances set the 
tone for the rest of the year. 
:'This is such a great bond­
ing experience for the choir 
and it will make the rest of 
our performances so much 
better," said Condon. "It sets 
such a high standard for 
everything else we do this 
year." 
Karr agreed. 
"This will be great for Saint 
Mary's," said Karr. "True, 
many people don't know what 
a great program we have, but 
additionally, we will reflect 
the positive image a Saint 
Mary's woman always pres­
ents." 
Contact Danielle Lerner at lern6311 @saintmarys.edu 
WebCT to be replaced by new online system 
By LISA SCHULTZ News Writer 
From physics to sociology to German. professors of various Notre Dame depart­ments are participating in a pilot program for a new version of WebCT. 
Functions of this pro­gram, called Vista WebCT, include keeping track of grades, making course announcements, providing handouts in various for­mats, giving quizzes and surveys, having online dis­cussion and submitting assignments. 
Vista WebCT will be replacing the old WebCT this May, said Alex 1-Iimonas, a Vista Pilot pro­gram participant. Students will not notice much change, but the upgrade to Vista will add many new features, which aid the fac­ulty, llimonas said. 
Teaching functions. like 
entering grades, have been separated from design functions. like posting a PowerPoint file. Faculty can now view the same screens as students. Additional fu·nctions for group work have been integrated and a Web page editor has also been built into the system. 
"Besides the new fea­tures, a major benefit is that [Vista] will connect with the University's new administrative system," llimonas said. 
Some Math 108 students were unable to log into Vista for the first quiz of the semester. The Office of Information Technology was able to work out the problem and students can now log on without prob­lems, Himonas said. 
"This program had a lot of troubles at the begin­ning, but now it is much easier to navigate than the 
old  one," said  freshman  
Katie Scully,  a  Math  108  
student.  

Contact Lisa Schultz at lschultz@nd.edu 


is currently accepting applications for the 2005-2006 term for the following positions: MANAGING EDITOR ASST. MANAGING EDITOR 
Applicants for Managing Editor and Assistant Managing Editor should demonstrate strong journalis­tic and management skills. An in-depth understanding ofnewspaper production, including skills in Microsoft Word, Quark XPress and Photoshop, is required. Experience with Macintosh computers is helpful. 
Applications for any ofthe above positions should be at least five pages and should explain the applicant's qualifications and goals. 
Managing Editor and Assistant Managing Editor applications are due by Wednesday, February 2 at 5 
p.m. Submit all applications to Claire Heininger in the Observer office located in the South Dining Hall basement. 
Please direct questions about these positions or the application procedure to Claire Heininger and Matt Lozar at 631-4542. 


Please recycle The Observer. 
Wednesday, February 2, 2005 
page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
ulates that the "Young Trustee officials and members of the tern is running by the fall. In what they call a more cannot hold a presidential South Bend city government to Again, the Marra-Harig and "sensible" approach, Brede
Issues 

position of any component of the Istvan, Bell and Baron White-Powers tickets did not and Ramanan suggest limiting 
continued from page 1 
the administration, even if the student member was not granted a vote. 
After that election, its win­ners, current student body president Adam Istvan and vice president Karla Bell, said they would look into continu­ing the push for a student trustee, but no visible progress was made on the issue during their term. 
This year's candidates have prominently featured the promise to get the ball rolling on the matter in their plat­forms. 
The Dave Baron-Lizzi Shappell ticket attached a con­tingency to its plan for putting a student on the BOT, saying it will support the measure only if the BOT continues to allow the student government to give its tri-annual presentation to the Board's Student Affairs Committee. 
"A student on the BOT is not worth losing the right of agen­da," says the ticket's official Web site. 
In the most detailed of the stances, the Craig Brede-Vijay Ramanan ticket sets forth a specific plan for the position, allowing a student nominating committee to select three final­ists from a group of Notre Dame sophomore, junior and senior applicants, and the BOT to ultimately choose the repre­sentative. The student would then serve a three-year term on the Board, with voting privi­leges only in their second and third years. The plan also stip­student government nor be employed by the University" during his term, according to the ticket's Web site. 
Though not directly included in its list of long-term goals, the Mark Healy-Bob Costa tick­et integrates the idea of a stu­dent Trustee into its platform by making it a priority in the first 30 days of its term to send a letter to the BOT supporting the creation of such a position. 
Citing the University's biggest problem as a lack of communi­cation between the administra­tion and the student body, the James Leito-Jordan Bongiovanni ticket promises to advocate the addition of a stu­dent to the Board's Student Affairs Committee -a body whose policy decisions directly affect the student population. 
While the Will Marra-Pete Harig and Alec White-Erik Powers tickets did not include the proposal as part of their written platform, both tickets commented on the issue during their interviews with The Observer Editorial Board. 
Marra and Harig said the idea was unreasonable, and outside of student government power to implement. 
White and Powers said that they shouldn't just put a stu­dent on the BOT -they should get him a desk, chair and car­peting as well. Off-campus issues 
Issues of off-campus security and student relations with the South Bend community were a key element of the past year's developments, from the fall meetings between University Dctober BOT report. 
Because of Baron's ties to the current administration, the Baron-Shappell ticket plans on implementing an "OC Safety Seminar" and "OC Security Alert" for those students living off-campus, as well as creating a Student Senate Committee on Community Relations. 
The Brede-Ramanan ticket is focusing on increasing repre­sentation for off-campus stu­dents -an issue that arose last year when the election was decided by a Senate vote based on dorm breakdowns, during which the objection was raised that the 1 ,000-plus off­campus students had the same amount of representation as the approximately 100 stu­dents in Carroll. Brede and Ramanan want to add a second off-campus senator and presi­dent as representatives of spe­cific housing regions. 
Healy-Costa's two-part "WE ARE Campaign" encourages improved community relations through a monthly volunteer effort called "Campus­Community Clean-UP" and a push at the beginning of the fall semester to increase stu­dent patronage at local busi­nesses and other venues. 
Though no specific represen­tation plan is detailed, the Healy-Costa Web site promises that "Mark and Bob will fight for the rights and lifestyle of off-campus students." 
The Leito-Bongiovanni ticket also calls for off-campus secu­rity alerts, promising to work through the Campus Life Council to make sure the sys-include the proposal as part of their written platform, but both commented on the issue during their interviews with The Observer Editorial Board. 

Marra and Harig promised to continue the current adminis­tration's SafeBus idea. 
White and Powers said their solution to off-campus prob­lems was to "tell the neighbors to come over and have a beer." 
Concert/speaker endowment 
A headlining issue that is, at its core, about students want­ing headliners to play on cam­pus, the push for a concert and speaker endowment is the source of the most variety among candidate solutions. 
The original plan -dis­cussed and proposed by former student body president Jeremy Lao in last year's February and April BOT reports -called for a $1 million student program­ming endowment to be inte­grated into the University's 10­year strategic plan. The endowment would generate about $50,000 a year to be used to fund big-ticket con­certs and speakers normally too pricy for organizations' budgets. 
The endowment was also a component to the Ebersol-Leito platform in 2004. 
The Baron-Shappell ticket hopes to expand on the initial $100,000 allotment with dona­tions, and in the meantime would increase the Student Union Board concert budget and reach out to neighboring schools like Purdue and Northwestern to coordinate tours. 
to use for speakers, reasoning that $50,000 is not likely to cover the costs for a big-ticket concert, but can attract high quality speakers. 
Healy and Costa recognize the importance of securing an endowment for the future, but want to act immediately to get big-name bands to campus: Costa, who gained national recognition for getting John Mayer to play for free at his high school's prom, promises to use his connections to work toward securing artists like Maroon 5, Outkast, Pearl Jam, the Dave Matthews Band and U2 for shows on campus. 
The Lei to-Bongiovanni ticket -also invoking the specter of U2 in their platform descrip­tion -provides no specifics on their plan for the endowment, but criticize the current administration for failing to make progress on the effort and promise to make it a top priority if elected. 
This issue was not included in the written platforms of the Marra-Harig and White­Powers, and their positions come from interviews with The Observer Editorial Board. 
Marra and Harig said they are "all for the idea" of the endowment, and promised to pursue it to the best of their ability. 
White and Powers also sup­ported the endowment, and said that extra money will help events like An Tostal improve. 
Contact Amanda Michaels at 
amichael@nd.edu 

The very mission statement ofour University states, 
"The intellectual interchange essential to a university 
requires, and is enriched by, the presence and voices of diverse scholars and students." 





Help us to ask, "Are we living up to the ideal?" 
Student Government's Report to the Board of Trustees 

EISiriiiiiWIICIIIIIIEllll'lllllllllriiiiiiD 
Read it in its entirity at: 



www.nd.edu/--studegov 



ORLD & NATION 
Wednesday, February 2, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE 0BsERVHts WIRE sERVICEs page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Annan urges Darfur action 
UNITED NATIONS-U.N. Secretary­<;tHH~ral Kofi Annan on Tuesday urgt~d swift action to stop tlw killing in Sudan's Darfur n~gion, but tlw Security Council was divid­Pd about snrHling tlw case to the International Criminal Court or setting up an nntirnly nnw t.ribunal to handle the easn. 
Annan's call l'or tlu~ council to considnr i111posing sanctions on Darfur cam•~ a day al'tPr a U.N.-appointPd parwl conr.ludt~d Sudan's governmPnt and allied militias had likPly colllmitlPd rrinws. against humanity iiiHI war crilllt!S in Darfur. but not grmoeide as th1~ United Statns claims. 
Annan. along with several council diplo­mats. strnssnd that the debat1~ over whPtlwr genoride had occurred in Sudan was l'ar less important than taking action to stop tlw killings. torturn, rape and otlwr atrocilil's in Darfur that wnrn outlined in till' commission's n•port. 
South Korea requires hair cuts 
SIWUL. South Kor·Pa -Tlu~ order to shaggy-haired North Kon~an mPn couldn't hP riParPr: (;nt a trim like Kim. 
ThP n·rlusivl' communist country is wag­ing a hair war. tPIIing its male population to losn thP long locks. cut tlw coi!Tures and mow the nwne to conform to "socialist style" no longt~r than two inches. 
l~vl'n hair-challenged. authoritarian IPadnr Kim .long II has trimmed his famous p o m pad o u r. 0 rw I' x c c p t io n , how c v e r : Comradtdy eomb-overs are OK for older llll'n. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Abu Ghraib guard pleads guilty 
FOHT IIOOD, Texas -A former Abu Ghraib guard pleaded guilty Tuesday to battery and two other charges in the Iraqi prison abuse scandal as part of a deal with prosecutors on the eve of his trial. 
Sgt. Java! Davis, 27, also pleaded guilty to den~liction of duty and making a false o!licial statl~rn•mt to Army investigators after photo­graphs of naked and abust~d prisoners became public last spring. Davis, from Hoselle, N.J., will not b1~ tried on two other charges he had faced: conspiracy and maltreating detainees. 
Dnfense attorney Paul Bergrin told The Associated Press last week that Davis was working on a deal with prosecutors that would cap his possible sentence at 18 months. 
Medicare set to cover Viagra 
WASHINGTON -Sexual performance drugs such as Viagra will be covered in Medicare's new prescription drug program. a lif'•~style rather than lifesaving benel1t that conservatives and watchdog groups say the government shouldn't provide. 
Like those for maladies such as high blood prnssure and heart disease, prescriptions for Viagra and similar drugs in its class will be tightly controlled. The new prescription cov­erage begins Jan. 1 and is expected to cost more than $500 billion over the next decade. 
"The law says if it's an FDA-approved drug and it is medically necessary, it has to be covered," said Gary Karr. spokesman for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, which administers the health insurance pro­gram for older Americans. 


LOCAL NEWS 
Circus elephant kills man 
FOHT WAYNE. Ind. -An elephant being loaded onto a truck trampled a circus animal trainer to death at Memorial Coliseum, police said. 
Three handlers were loading the elephant Monday as crews packed up from this week­end's Shrine Circus, officials said. lWo of the workers left the semitrailer and Pierre Spenle, 40, of Texas, stayed behind to lock the trailer dour. 
Pope John Paul II hospitalized 
Severe flu symptoms force Holy Father to seek medical aid Tuesday night 
Associated l'ress 
HOME -Pope John Paul 
II was hospitalized urgent­
ly on Tuesday after he suf­
fered inflammation of the 
throat and had difl'iculty 
breathing. the Vatican said. 
In a post-midnight state­mont. Vatican spokesman .Joaquin Navarro-Valls said it was decided to urgently hospitalize the 84-year-old pope at 10:50 p.m. after he suffered complications from tho /1u. 
"The llu which the lloly Father was suffering for thrt~e days this evening became complicated by an acute laryngeal tracheitis and larynx spasm crisis," the statement said Tuesday. "For .this reason urgent admission to Gemelli Polyclinic, which occurred at 10:50 p.m. t(Jday was decided." 
Tracheitis, an inflamma­tion of the trachea, requires hospitalization and usually a breathing tube to keep the airway clear. The spasms are like­ly a complication from the respiratory illness he's had. 
It's possible his Parkinson's disease has made his condition more serious and his breathing more labored. 

A Vatican official told The Associated Press on spondent at the scene. Vatican had been issuing ing through Italy sinctl condition of anonymity that It was the same Rome reassuring news about his December. The Rome the pontiff, who has had Catholic teaching hospital condition, up to Tuesday's region, which is shivering the flu since Sunday, had he was taken to when he late night news cast on through a cold spell that apparently suffered a was shot in the abdomen in Vatican radio. has dropped temperatures "breathing crisis." 1981 and at which he has First word of his transfer below freezing at night, 
Earlier, a close member undergone several opera­to the hospital Tuesday has been among those hit or the pope's starr. tions. night came from Italian the hardest. American Archbishop The frail pontiff has news media. About 40 percent of the James Harvey, said the Parkinson's disease, which The Vatican announced flu cases have been chil­pope had congestion and a makes his speech difficult, earlier Tuesday that it had dren, with the elderly mak­slight fever during the day. as well as chronic hip and canceled the pope's ing up only a small fraction 
A State Department offi­knee problems. engagements for the next of cases after an aggres­cial, who asked not to be He was last seen in pub­few days. sive campaign of /1u vacci­identified, said the pope lic on Sunday, when he The canceled appoint­nations for older people, would be held overnight made his regular noontime ments included John Paul's health officials said. for observation but there appearance at his window weekly public audience It was not known was no indication he was overlooking St. Peter's Wednesday. Besides the whether the pontiff had a gravely ill. Square and released a traditional morning gather­flu shot. 
Cars with Vatican license dove in a sign of peace. He ing with the faithful, he Vatican Radio asked plates were speeding appeared remarkably live­had been scheduled to ·pre­Navarro-Valls earlier toward Rome's Gemelli ly, but his words were side at a candle-blessing Tuesday if the pope felt the Polyclinic Hospital where barely audible. service in St. Peter's good wishes of people the pope had been taken, Until the pope had been Basilica that evening. worldwide who are con­according to an AP corre-taken to the hospital, the The flu has been sweep-cerned about his health. 


Iraqi citizens deprived of vote 
Interim president reports a shortage of ballots in many Sunni Arab areas 
Associated l'ress 
BAGHDAD, Iraq -Iraq's interim 
president said Tuesday that tens of 
thousands of people may have been 
unable to vote in the country's his­
toric weekend election because 
some polling places including those 
in Sunni Arab areas ran out of bal­
lots. 
As clerks pounded vote-count tal­
lies into computers to compile 11nal results, President Ghazi al-Yawer also said chaos and a power vacu­um in Iraq mean U.S. forces need to stay for now. even though a new government will be formed after the results are known. 

If true, the allegation that many 
·voters were turned away could fur­ther alienate minority Sunnis, who already are complaining they have been left out of the political process. 
"Tens of thousands were unable to cast their votes because of the lack of ballots in Basra, Baghdad and Najaf," al-Yawer, himself a Sunni Arab, said at a news confer­ence. Najaf is a mostly Shiite city but Basra and Baghdad have sub­stantial Sunni populations. 
Elections officials acknowledged that irregularities kept people away including in the volatile northern and heavily Sunni city of Mosul and they called the fact unfortunate. Security worries in Sunni areas were partly to blame for the fact that some polls did not open and ballots were too few, they said. 
"The elections took place under difficult conditions and this undoubtedly deprived a number of citizens in a number of areas from voting," said Abdul-Hussein al­1-!endawi. who heads the Iraqi elec­toral commission. 

page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS 
Teach 
continued from page 1 
recruitment director for Notre Dame, Leon graduated from Occidental College in 2000 and was assigned to teach in the greater New Orleans area through Teach for America. At the begin­ning of his first year, he found out that his eighth graders would have to face the high-stakes Louisiana Education Assessment Program test in March. If they did­n't pass the test, they wouldn't graduate. 
Leon also soon discovered that only 30 percent of his students were reading at their grade level; some were only at a second or third grade level. He immediately sprang into action, getting all the parents on board and implement­ing a tutoring program for one hour before and one hour after school. 
The week-long test was "nerve­wracking" for Leon. who said he'd formed strong relationships with his students and would hate to see them not pass. When the test results arrived in May, the princi­pal offered Leon the choice of good news or bad news. 
"The bad news was that only 30 percent of the fourth graders had passed [their LEAP tests]." said Leon. "The good news was, 98 percent of my students had passed." 
Leon said what followed has impacted the rest of his life. 
"It was one of the greatest joys of my life to pull these students into the hallway and tell them they'd passed the test; there were a lot of hugs and tears," he recalled. "It was so amazing to see that big wake-up call, coming from this bubble. You play so many roles for 

Prograin

these kids ... you're their doctor, lawyer. father, and first and fore­
continued from page 1 

most, you're their teacher. That was the hardest part for me." 
field between by uniting moti­Patrinella agreed, but she point­
vated college graduates with ed out that such struggles have 
low-income public schools in their benefits. 
urban and rural communi­"This is by far the most chal­
ties. Since its inception in lenging and incredibly gratifying 
1990, the p~rogram has experience of my life," she said. 
expanded from 500 corps "Still, I learn so much every day." 
members in six placement Students who choose to partici­
sites to more tha'n 3,000 pate in the Alliance for Catholic 
corps members in 22 sites in Education rather than Teach for 
2004. America have had similar experi­
Several factors contributed ences, like Katie Mitchell. class of 
to the program's growth. In 2004, who is teaching high school 
2000, to celebrate its 10-year chemistry in Los Angeles. 
anniversary, the program "It is much more difficult than I 
launched an aggressive five­ever thought it could be," she said, 
year campaign strategy. In "but the students are great and 
2001, Laura Bush recognized make each day exciting and chal­
Teach for America as one of lenging." 
five organizations she would One major distinguishing factor 
actively support. After Sept. between Teach for America and 
11, the program saw its ACE is ACE's requirement that its 
application numbers rise teachers live in a community 
from 4,000 annually to about together. 
15,000. "We believe this is a huge sup­
There are also more inter­port for the teachers," said John 
nal reasons why the explo­Staud, administrative director for ~ 
sion occurred. said Brad ACE. "They teach at different 
Leon, Teach for America schools. but they can come home 
recruitment director for and share their war stories." 
Notre Dame. Students involved in ACE recog­
"Recently, Teach for nize this living situation as one of 
America put much more the most important features of the 
money and resources into program. 
recruitment," he said. "They "Moving to a new city with new 
went from 11 to 12 recruit­people and into unknown teaching 
ment directors to close to 25. territory, I fmd community to be a 
They are also sending back great asset in ACE," said 
more alumni ... people are Francisco Ramirez, class of 2004. 
very excited to go back and "Coming home and being able to 
talk about their experiences." share my successes, frustrations 
While the program is grow­and failures with people who care 
ing in general, the growth at and are living the same experi-
Notre Dame is "outpacing ences is invaluable 
that of the entire country's," and very comfort­
Leon said. He thinks he 

I had helped create "This is by far the ing." 
knows why. too. 

something so spe­Both programs 
"I can speculate why [Notre 

most challenging
cial and make a real stress the impor­
Dame students' acceptance 

difference. This is and incredibly tance of prepara­
rates have been so high]. 
Notre Dame students are so

why I'm doing gratifying tion. Teach for 
recruitment here. America corps 
well-rounded, academically

experience ofmy
... I believe Notre members have an 
and in the community," Leon

life."
Dame students can intensive five-week 
make a difference, training sessic::1 too." Lucy Patrinella the summer before Joe Lordi, class of they begin; ACE
corps member
2003, believed he students have
Teach for America 
could make a differ­
ence, especially after becoming aware of educa­tional injustice during his time at Notre Dame. 
"My awareness of the problem began in South Bend. I'd totally taken education for granted [growing up] in New Hampshire," Lordi said. "I began volunteering as a tutor off-campus .... I eventu­ally noticed that each and every kid was struggling. I couldn't believe this was going on just four blocks down the road from one of the greatest academic institutions in the country." 
Lucy Patrinella, a 2004 gradu­ate currently serving as a corps member in Houston, said she believes that Teach for America provides Notre Dame students with a unique postgraduate expe­rience. 
"I think it's a great opportunity for Notre Dame students to see a different side of America," she said. 
Patrinella also said she recog­nizes the overall difference that Teach for America was making in the world -and she likes being a part ofit. 
"To be a part of a national col­lective impact addressing educa­tional inequity," she said, "and to be one of [at least] 3,000 corps members working to make a dif­ference is really powerful." 
Still, for Teach for America corps members, the job is not without its challenges. Lordi in particular admitted that he strug­gled a bit during his first year. 
"Last year wasn't as excellent as I would have liked," he said. "It's a 

----~-~-----------------. 
Wednesday, Febraury 2, 2005 
said. "Even Harvard and Yale or subject matter they will be have lower acceptance teaching. rates." Leon stressed the flexibility 
The national acceptance of the program along with the rate last year was 12 percent; opportunities it provides for Notre Dame's was nearly 25 further studies -at various percent. prestigious law schools. med­
John Staud, administrative ical schools, business schools director for the Alliance for and government or public Catholic Education, agreed policy schools. with Leon -Notre Dame stu­"One o.f the draws is that dents do have a Jot of poten­we take all academic majors; tial to pass along. no one specific focus comes 
"Clearly, they are thorough­more than another," said ly impressed with Notre Leon. "Plus, we have a Jot of Dame students, as are we. We really fantastic relationships just knew that 10 years ago, with postgraduate programs before they existed." Staud ... they value the experience said. "We both prize the our corps members have." notion that if you take talent­Teach for America has also ed, highly-motivated stu­established a relationship 
dents, they'll make great teachers." "Clearly they are 
While he 
thoroughly
declined to 
reveal any impressed with application Notre Dame numbers, 
students, as are
Staud did say the ACE pro­we. gram's num­bers "have 
John Staud 
been going up administrative director 
consistently." 
Alliance for Catholic
They accepted 88 to the pro­Education gram last year. 
with Americorps, a national service network that offers a two-year deferral on stu­dent loans. The service gives all corps members an award of $9,450 that can be used to repay student loans or finance 
further education­
al pursuits. 
Arianne Watkins, a senior who has signed with the Teach For 
The financial and post-serv­America program for next ice opportunities that Teach year, said that the two-year for America offers pose dif­service opportunity was an ferent draws than those "ideal commitment," both in offered by ACE. terms of the focus, and the 
While ACE teachers earn a opportunities it provides. Master's degree in education "Public schools are a lot and receive about an $11,000 worse off than Catholic yearly stipend, Teach for schools; I feel I'll be doing the America corps members work where the most is need­receive full teachers' salaries ed," she said. "Plus, you can through their school districts, go to graduate school if you to use however they please. choose. and we're being paid,· Without the degree. corps which is comforting, as a col­members are hired using lege graduate." state-approved alternative certification programs, which generally means demonstrat­Contact Eileen Duffy at ing proficiency in the grades eduffy 1 @nd.edu 

already dedicated a summer towards earning their master's degree. 
"I had no idea I would be so prepared to enter a classroom." 2004 graduate Mike Macaluso, who is currently serving in the 
ACE, "and teach and keep control of 30 kids for 50 minutes." 
Holy Cross Associates 
Nearly three out of four princi­pals (74 percent) said that Teach for America teachers are more 


Information Night!
effective than other beginning teachers, according to Teach for America's Web site. 
Ongoing support is also a con­
TONIGHT@ 7:00 pm I 
cern of both the programs. As mentioned previously, ACE groups 
I

Domestic Programits teachers into communities; 
Teach for America, rather, "clus­

_j
at the Center for Social Concerns
ters" its corps members, accord­ing to Leon. with 88 percent teaching in schools with other corps members. In addition, Teach for America organizes monthly meetings of Learning Teams, groups of corps members teaching similar subjects and ages, to discuss better teaching techniques. ACE participants noted the availability of their pro­fessors throughout the year, as well. 
Whether in public or Catholic 
Servicn Community Simple Living Spirituality
schools, Teach for America and ACE participants are certainly making a difference. 
http://holvcrossassociates.nd.edu ~ ·mail: !lca@nd.eilu
"I chose Teach for America because it captured the things I'd been feeling," said Lordi. "It's our generation's civil rights struggle, trying to level the educational ~ playing field." 
Contact Eileen Duffy at 
eduffyl@nd.edu 
Wednesday, February 2, 2005 MARKET RECAP 
Dow 

10,551.94 +62.00
}ones 
2 A Up: .294  S ome: 146  Down: •  Composite 1,7 Volume: 05,097,728  
AMEX NASDAQ NYSf S&P 500  I .433.16 2,068.70 7,146.21 I, 189.41  +4.77 +6.29 +56.38 +8.14  

NIKKEI(Tokyo) ll ,42 8 .4 I +44.0 1 FTSE IOO(London) 4,906.20 +53.90 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQIOOTRSERI(QQQQ) +0.32 +0.[2 37.52 ,INTEL CP (INTC) +0.80 +0.1798 26.629 JDS UN/PHASE CP ODSU) -3.72 -0.08 2.07 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) 1-0.42 +0.1 I 26.39 SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) -4.98 -0.33 6.29 

30-YEAR BOND +0,04 +0.02 45.92 I0-YEAR NOTE +0. I 0 +0.04 41.36 5-YEAR NOTE +0.14 +0.05 36.99 3-MONTH BILL +I .65 +0.40 24.62 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -1.08 47.12 GOLD ($/Troy oz.) -1.20 422.90 PORK BELLIES (cents.'lb.) -0.20 94.38 
Excha Rates 

YEN I 03.6300 EURO 0.7657 POUND 0.5307 CANADIAN$ 1.2335 
IN BRIEF 
Coors set to merge with Molson 
GOLDEN. Colo. -Adolph Coors Co. share­holders overwhelmingly approved a merger with Canada's Molson Inc. on Tuesday, one of the last steps in a $3.4 billion deal that will combirw two family-run breweries hoping to keep up with the race for new international rnarkPts. 
The deal won support from 92 percent of Coors stockholders, the company said. It was approved last week by Molson shareholders. 
"This is a monwntous time for our compa­ny." Coors board chairman Peter Coors said. "Coors and Molson were both founded by bold pioneers in tlwir own time and our family looks at this nwrgnr as a pioneering step in its own right." 
A ht~aring in Quebec Supnrior Court is sclwduled for Wednesday for final approval. The deal is expected to dose Feb. 9. 
Tlw new Molson Coors Brewing Co. will hav1~ I!'i breweries and nearly 15,000 employ­ees making brands such as Molson Canadian. Coors Light. Carling, Keystone, Aspen Edgn, /.ima. Hickard 's and Kaiser. 
Red Lobster aims for new image 
OHI.ANDO. Fla. -All-you-can-eat dinners havP lwen a staple at Hml Lobster restaurants, but as the casual dining chain tries to lift its sagging sales, customers arc going to sec a lit­tle morn portion control. 
Panmt company Darden Restaurants Inc., is giving Bed Lobster a diet of sharper advertis­ing, a more moderately priced menu and less rrliance on those famed all-you-can-eat promo­tions. 
Hestoring H1~d Lobster's health has been paramount to Darden's fortunes since the seafood chain started slumping in September 2003. With 680 locations, Bed Lobster accounts for around hall' the $5 billion in annual sales at llardnn. the nation's largest casual dining restaurant company. 
Improvement at Bed Lobster, combined with continuing strong momentum from its Olive Garden Italian restaurants and the steady expansion of il'i Smokey Bones barbecue chain, is key to further boosting Darden's stock, which has traded from a 52-week low or $19.30 in August to iL'i current high in the $29 range. 

THE OBSERVER 










USINESS 
page 7 
SBC expects to cut 13,000 jobs 
Merger with AT&T leads communications giant to discuss major layoffs 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK -SBC Communications Inc. said Tuesday it expects to elim­inate about 13,000 jobs after its $16 billion acqui­sition of AT&T Corp. clos­ns. but the telephone com­pany stressed that many of those positions can b1~ cut through attrition rathnr than layoffs. 
Tlw projnction came during an occasionally heated meeting with investors a day af'tnr SBC announced plans to acquire AT&T, its fornwr corporate parent, in a deal that would create one of the world's biggest telecommunications com­panics on numerous fronts. 
The cuts would come in addition to existing plans at the two companies to eliminate at least 12,000 jobs before the merger is finalized at least a year from now. Combined, the 25,000 expected cuts rep­resent about 12 percent of the current work force at 

· the two companies. SBC executives also offered a more optimistic projection of how long the deal might take to gain approval from federal, state and foreign regula­tors, saying the merger should be completed by lion in 2007. Annual sav­answer the attendees' failed to seek the best pos­"early" 2006. On Monday, ings could exceed $2.4 bil­questions. sible payoff for sharehold­the target closing date was lion in 2009, the execu­Instead, the gathering ers. put closer to mid-2006. tives said. was dominated by an ''We haven't been hiding Overall, work force The meeting included hourlong presentation under a bushel basket." reductions will generate some pointed questions which offered many new said Dorman, 51, who also nearly 60 percent of the from analysts and money details on the jobs cuts .was adamant in saying he cost savings that the merg­managers who asked and other aspects of the had received no formal or er is expected to generate, whether AT&T had merger, but also repeated informal promise that he's SBC executives said in the shopped itself to anyone large swaths of the mate­take over the top job at the presentation. Other sav­but SBC and whether it rial covered in conference merged company when ings will come from com­sold itself too cheaply calls on Monday after the Edward E. Whitacre Jr., bining budgets for capital despite the company's rap­deal was announced. 63, eventually retires as expenditures and market­idly deteriorating busi­Some of the criticism of SBC chairman and chief ing, combining facilities to ness. AT&T pointed to SBC's executive. reduce real estate and There also were some assertions on Monday that "In terms of people who utility costs, and improved audible groans when the the deal's cost savings could possibly do this purchasing power. question-and-answer ses­meant the takeover would transaction. there's only 
Those savings arc sion was halted after pay for itself and that even three," Dorman said refer­expected to accelerate about half an hour despite an AT&T in decline pos­ring to SBC and its Bell from between $200 million assurances early on by sessed a unique set of rivals, Verizon Commun­and $600 million in 2006, Edward E. Whitacre Jr., assets. ications Inc. and BellSouth depending on when the SBC chairman and chief AT&T Chairman and Corp. "We know who they deal closes, to between executive, that the pur­CEO David Dorman reject­are and they know who we $1.1 billion and $1.6 bil-pose of the meeting was to ed suggestions AT&T had arc." 


CEO Scrushy implicated in fraud 
"Basically, he was responsible for and explained what had been done. 
Associared Press 

everything," said Owens. "llis primary question to me was 
BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -Fired Owens said· after Scrushy "directed" could I get this past the auditors." HealthSouth CEO Hichard Scrushy him to overstate earnings, it was his Owens said. Scrushy later pressured actively orchestrated and participated job to figure out how to alter financial him and Beam to continue the fraud as in a scheme to overstate earnings at statements and accounts. Owens, an llealthSouth's real numbers sagged. the rehabilitation giant, a former accountant, went through a long list of Owens said. finance chief testified Tuesday as pros­executives he said helped with the Prosecutors allege Scrushy directed ecutors got to the heart of their multi­scheme. a fraud that led to the overstatement billion dollar fraud case against Owens said it was "very important" of llealthSouth earnings by some $2.7 Scrushy. to Scrushy that HealthSouth meet Wall billion and enriched himself. They 
Bill Owens, who served as Street earnings estimates. Scrushy told accuse him of using bonuses, profits HealthSouth Corp.'s chief financial offi­him and another former CFO, Aaron from stock sales and his salary to cer and secretly recorded talks with Beam, to "fix the numbers" once a finance a lavish lifestyle of mansions, Scrushy for the FBI in 2003, painted shortfall occurred in 1996, Owens luxury cars, boal'i, jewels and art. his one-time boss as a micromanager said. Scrushy, 52, is named in a 58-count who oversaw everything from major After adding millions in false rev­indictment charging him with conspir­acquisitions to who parked where at enues to the books. Owens said he took acy, fraud. money laundering, obstruc­headquarters. the new, bogus numbers to Scrushy tion of justice and perjury. 

page 8 Wednesday, February 2, 2005
The Observer + NEWS 
Coke 
continued from page 1 
focus on profit because the account is more valuable," said Wilson. 
Wilson also said Coca-Cola enters these accounts because they want to be associated with quality. 
"We are good at academics, sports, everything. We are Notre Dame," he said. 
Wilson said the hall presi­dents greeted the six-week competition with excitement when he presented at Hall President's Council. Though he has not seen any tallies yet, Wilson has his picks for the winner. 
"I would think Keough would win because .the past president of Coca-Cola was Don Keough and he is cur­rently on the board of direc­tors." 
Keough Hall president Ricky Nieto is urging resi­dents to win. but does not feel any pressure because of the dorm's namesake. 
"It is just a fun competi­tion. We are pushing it hard ... in emails, at hall council meetings, after mass. This cash prize is large," he said. 
"Outside  of  HPC's  [Hall  
President's Council]  occa­ 
sional competition,  there  

really aren't ways to earn that much." 
According to Wilson, Vending Services keeps track of how many bottles of Coke products are sold from each dorm vending machine. Coke products include Powerade, Minute Maid, Fanta, Dasani, Barq's Root Beer. Sprite and others. 
Beverages bought from vending machines that are not in dorms will not be counted toward the totals. Each Tuesday, until the pro­motion ends on March 5, Wilson will present the standings at HPC. Whichever dorm sells the most per resi­dent wins. 
"This works because small dorms can compete with' the Dillons and Alumnis," said Wilson. "But, unfortunately, if students buy in another dorm, that dorm will get [credit]." 
Dean Winter, vending oper­ations manager, said he would guess the amount of Coke bought in dorms com­pared to those bought at other campus locations is "50-50, but dorms [may] be on the lesser end because of big sellers like DeBartolo, the library and the Joyce Center." 
"We don't envision millions of bottles sold," he said. "I don't think [the increase in sales] will be staggering. [This competition] is for fun." 
Out of the 204 beverage vending machines on cam­pus, 32 Coke brand machines are spread between the 27 residence halls. 
Each dorm has at least one Coke vending machine in their dorm, with Alumni, Dillon, Sorin, Zahm and Keough each having two. Because of Don Keough's ties to Coca-Cola Enterprises, it is the only beverage vending option in that hall. 
"It is a courtesy thing. You don't want to insult," said Winter. "He also said this may put Keough at an advan­tage but "you never know. It depends on how many people choose to participate." 
Contact Katie Scarlett at kohara@nd.edu 


Legends 
continued from page 1 
main building along with the 12 works depicting the life of Columbus on the cor­ridor inside. Those patrons wishing to order a ham­burger are invited to "Build one for the Gipper." 
The selections range from the obvious: "Room Picks" in reference to combo plat­ters where the customer has some choice, to the not-so­obvious: a "Zahm Special" is a dish of sauteed-shrimp with chipotle peppers. 
It will feel less constricting at a great job. 
At Ernst & Young, the opportunity for growth is enormous. We offer over 7,000 professional development programs-some of the best formal learning programs in the country -because our philosophy is People First. We recognize that our employees are essential to the firm's growth and
FORTUNE" 

success. And in order to attract the best talent, we've built an environment100 BEST that Fortune® magazine has consistently recognized as one of the "100 Best COMPANIES~ Companies To Work For." So whether you're looking for a place to grow or a 
TO WORK FOR~ 

great place to work, look for our recruiters on campus. ey.comjusjcareers 

obscure folk tales associat­ed with the University. There is the "King of Campus," a 16-ounce steak in honor of the student who campaigned for the ficti­tious title and managed to win the election for student­body president. There is another steak whose name­sake is one Father Bill "BHB" Lang, who was in 1922 named the fourth­strongest man in the world. 
"We first introduced the new menu in mid-November and we've gotten a lot of positive feedback from it. A lot of people are excited about it," Leek said. 


Teenage girl killed outside restaurant 
Associated Press 
ROCK ISLAND, Ill. -What started as a fight between two 16-year-old girls in a car outside a fast food restaurant ended with two teens beating and strangling one of the girls, then burn­ing and dismembering her body with the help of anoth­er friend. investigators testi­fied in court Tuesday. 
All three teenagers arrest­ed in the Jan. 21 death of Adrianne Reynolds were 16 or 17 years old. 

Two-Sarah Kolb, 16, and Corey Charles Gregory. 17 -pleaded not guilty Tuesday to first-degree mur­der and concealment of a homicide in Reynolds' death. The third, a 16-year­old boy, is in juvenile cus­tody, and Rock Island County State's Attorney Jeff Terronez said he was con­sidering charging him as an adult as well. 
Wednesday, February 2, 2005 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Health secretary tells states to fix Medicaid 
Anociatrd Prrss 
• 

WASHINGTON-President Bush's nnw health secretary accused some states on Tuesday of mismanaging their Medicaid programs and cheating the fnder­al govtmunent and taxpayers of as much as $40 billion over a dneade. 
"Wn nend to have a very uncomfortable but, frankly, nec­Pssary conversation with our funding partners. thE~ stat!~s." said Ilnalth and I Iuman S<~rvicns Sncn~tary Mike L1~avitt. "State otlicials hav1~ resorted to what I would refer to as a variety of' loopholes and in some cases accounting gimmicks that shift thn cost that they claim to pay to tlw taxpayers of' other states." 
lin said that if the federal gov­ernmnnt doesn't persuade states tn dose those loopholes, they will shift as much as $40 billion in what oflicials describe as a shell ganH' in which the federal gov­nrnmnnt rnpays states for sup­posPdly spent money. 
The tough talk previewed Bush's budget proposal, due next Monday, in which he ha..c; said he will look to control popular bmw­fit programs to save money. Programs like Medicaid arc among the biggest and fastest­growing parts of the budget but am also widely popular and difli­cult for politicians to cut. 
Leavitt, like Bush a former gov­nrnor, tried to strike a balance b1~tween frankness and empathy in the run-up to the money light over the health insurance pro­gram for the poor and disabled. 
"I sympathize with the state officials who face these pres­sures. I know why they act this way," Leavitt. a former governor of' Utah. told the. World llealth Congress. "This isn't about blame; it's a simple statement that it has to stop." 
In a gesture of fairness. Leavitt personally ealled dozens of gov­ernors in recent days to give thmn a heads-up about what was coming, according to oflicials at III IS and the National Governors Association who asked not to be named. 
The governors. meeting in Arkansas, thanked Leavitt for the warning. 
Back in Washington, Leavitt torn into the states by bluntly list­ing some of what he called "the seven harmful habits of highly desperate states." 
On double-dipping: "States overpay providers. get the over­payment returned to them and spend the same dollars a second time. It's a shell game that makes no one healthier." 
On inflating overhead costs: "States are shifting costs to the federal treasury for 'administra­tion.' This accounting gimmick encourages wasteful spending and bloated bureaucracy." 
Medicaid, expected to cost the federal government about $190 billion this year, is paid for jointly by Washington and the states. 
Rough seas tortnent students 
'Semester at Sea' ship encounters engine trouble in the Pacific Ocean 

Associated Press 
HONOLULU -There was nothing to hold onto. 
Lauren Osgood watched as waves and flecks of sea spray licked at the glass on the door. Computers, library books and furniture crashed to the 11oor and were flung against the walls as the ship leaned like a massive metronome from port to star­board and back again. 
"We were right by the exit doors on either side, and so you could like see the waves on the doors, which freaked me out," said Osgood, a junior at the University of Wisconsin-Madison who was enrolled in the Semester at Sea program, which used the research ship Explorer as a floating classroom. 
"That's kind of when I began to panic because you could see the water and realize that .you were tipping that much," she said. 
The Explorer limped into llonolulu Harbor on Monday for repairs and inspections al'ter passengers endured more than a week's worth of rough seas. 
The ship's seesawing motion made sleeping diflicult, so many of the nearly 700 students were awake when a wave shattered the glass on the ship's bridge and three of the four engines shut down early last Wednesday. 
The incident occurred about 650 miles south of Adak, Alaska, in the Aleutian Islands and about 1,300 miles southwest of Anchorage. 
Students said rough seas had plagued the ship since they left Vancouver on Jan. 18 with 990 p1~opln aboard. including about 700 students 1~nrolled in a University of' Pittsburgh program designed to give students a glob­al perspective. Tuition for the program is about $20.000 for the semester, whir.h includes liv­ing expenses on the ship and some trips a..c;hore. 

The crew distributed plastic bags for nauseous passengers and students sat on the floor during classes because the furni­ture was not securnd to the floor and would topple with the ship's movement. 
"We were so used to it after a while. You'd just be talking to someone and when you felt the boat move, you'd just instantly grab for something," said Becca Leonard, 21, a junior at the University of Southern California. 

Volunteer Opportunities 
Homework and Mentoring 
Kyle, a 15 year old with learn­ing disabilities, is looking for a male student to be his mentor. I !e needs assistance with home­work and writing, and compan­ionship. If interested, contact Marissa at LOGAN Center at marissar@logancenter.org. 
Meritoring 

A 23-year-old girl with Spina Bifida is looking for a female student with whom to spend time. If you are interested in mentoring her please contact Marissa at LOGAN Center at marissar@logancenter.org. 
Salsa Aerobics 
The Latina women of"Co­madres" are very interested in starting a "low-impact aerobics" or "move to Salsa music" rype group. They need a volunteer who would be willing to lead the group for one hour per week in the early evening. If inter­ested contact Marcia Good at mgood I @nd.edu. 
Babysitting 
La Casa de Amistad holds a meeting for mothers called "Comadres" the third Thursday of every month. Volunteers are needed to take care of about 5-I 0 children from 4:30-6:30pm. Please contact Marcia Good at rngood I @nd.edu. 
Lunch Fast to Support Tsunami Relief 
To support tsunami disaster relief efforts, Notre Dame students can sign up to participate in the Wednesday Lunch Fast. Once you register, NO Food Services will make a donation based on the cost of your Wednesday lunch for the remainder ofspring semester. Register at Imps:/ /www3. nd.edu/ ~socconcn/about!tsunamiform.shtml 

"Catholic Social Teaching and Interreligious Dialogue" 
Featuring Todd Whitmore, Department ofTheology. This is part of the Spring Lecture Series on "Comparative Religious Social Ethics." 
When: Wednesday, February 2, at 7 p.m. Where: Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium. 

"The Role ofReligious NGOs in Peacebuilding" 
Etienne De ]onghe, International Secretary, Pax Christi Interna­tional. 
When: Monday, February 7, 7:00p.m. Where: Hammes Student Lounge, Coleman-Morse Center. 

"The Social Ethics ofJudaism" 
Featuring Elliot Bartky, Program of Liberal Studies. 
When: Wednesday, February 9 at 7 p.m. Where: Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 
Re-Imagining God and Mission 
Stephen Bevans, S.V.D., Professor of Mission and Culture at the Catholic Theological Union, will speak as part ofThe Holy Cross Mission Lecture at Notre Dame. 
When: Sunday, February 13 at 7: IS p.m. Where: Moreau Seminary Auditorium, Discussion and Reception to follow 
ACCION Business Internship 
An ACCION information session will be held Monday, Febru­ary 7, 6-7 pm in 121 Mendoza College of Business. ACCION provides loans and business training to persons who would like to start their own business but have no credit history. 
This internship is open to junior and senior business students. 
Interns receive a $3,000 scholarship plus .a living stipend. The 
program is built into a course which gives 2 business credits 
and 1 theology credit. Applications are available at the Center 
for Social Concerns for the 10-week ACCION interships in 7 
major U.S. cities. Applications are due February 20. 


Deadline for Summer Service Project Internship is Feb. 22 
The SSPI is an eight-week service-learning experience at roughly 200 agencies and organizations throughout the Unites States. Students are provided the opportuniry to witness un­derserved populations first hand by working for, and with, the clients and staff at each site. Students receive: 
• 
$2000 tuition scholarship 

• 
Valuable alumni contacts 

• 
3 Credits Theology, with possible cross-lists. 


Contact Andrea Smith Shappell (Shappell.! @nd.edu) for more information. 


Award and Mini-Grants Now Available 
The Center for Social Concerns is offering an award and three mini-grants to support communiry-based research in the South Bend communiry. The $5,000 Rodney F. Ganey Award recognizes a Notre Dame faculty member who has carried out a research project or agenda that benefits the local communiry. 
The $5,000 Ganey mini-grants support joint faculry-.Hu­dent-communiry research partnerships that address social challenges articulated by communiry organizations. For more information, contact MaryBeckman (mbeckman@nd.edu). 


THE 0HSERVER 








IEWPOINT 
Wednesday, February 2, 2005

page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
•

Where is hope?
P.O. Box 779. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
024 South Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDJ10R IN CHIEF Matt Lozar 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Meghanne Downes Mike Flanagan 
AssT. MANAGING ED110R Joe Herder 
NEWS EDITOR: Claire Heininger VIEWPOINT ED110R: Sarah Vabulas SPORTS EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden ScENE EDITOR: Maria Smith SAINT MARY'S EDITOR: Angela Saoud PHOTO EDITOR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR: Mike Harkins ADVERTISING MANAGER: Carrie Franklin AD DESIGN MANAGER: Kelly Nelson SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Mary Allen WEB ADMINISTRA10R: Jim Coulter CoNTROlLER: Michael Landsberg 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 obsead@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
·ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 BUSINESS OFFICE (574) 631-5313 
News DESK 
(574) 631·5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574} 631-4543 sports.l@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.l@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.1 @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 phoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 

O~~ERVER ONLINE 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University ofNotre Dame du Ltc and Saint Mary's College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief. Managing Editof, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presem the views ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The &ee expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must he signed and must include contact informacion. 
Questions regarding Obsn-verpolit:i~s should b~ directed to Editor in Chief Matt Lozar. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
Th~ Obkrva (USPS 599 2·•HIOO) is pubJi.hed Monday through Friday dtl.:ept durin~ c:t;Un. and V.\C!acit~n perioili. AJub&cription ro The Ob.erver i' $100 for one :11c2dank )'C!a.r; $55 for one 'dni::liter. 
The Obloervet ~ published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send .iddm~ ron't(tiOJU m: 
Notre Ojjnc,IN 46~;6.0719 The0b5ervtr 
Pcriodic..J pmtagc paid at No~ Dame P.O. Roxnr.; 
and !lddicional mailing officrt. 024 Sourh Dining H;tll 
Not~ Dame, IN' 46551)..{)779 
The Oblerver j, a mcmba ofdu: ~~iueJ Pn.-u. All rqnuductiun ughn: Mr: 
~""d. 

Where is hope in a world where one out of three women globally will be vic­timized, raped or battered in their life­time? Where is hope in a nation where scores of people work full time -even two or three jobs ­
Kama ria 
and still can not 
Porter

afford basic life necessities? Where is hope in world where Love in the 
Ruins

people suffer from genocide, war and political strife, while others do nothing to stop these injustices? We are all resi­dents of the ruins; a world where despair and fear reigns, profit and indi­vidual merit motivates and hope is scarce. 
I always wonder why more students do not participate in social justice activ­ities. It is always the same core of peo­ple, routinely replaced through the years, who work to carry the banner of justice here. Indeed, our case is not extraordinary. Throughout the human community, we find a minority of voices of dissent, hope and change. What dif­ferentiates actors from bystanders? 
I am inclined to say the reason people do not participate in movements for change or justice relates Jess to their moral consciousness and more to their lack of belief in their power. It is not that peoples' hearts are cold or care nothing for the plight of others. Any human in relationships with others has the ability to relate with another's suf­fering and empathize. 
This begs the question, "What are we waiting for?" Some may be waiting for the time when these issues have a close meaning for us. For instance, one may not feel invested in a movement until their personal interests are threatened. Others it seems are looking for the next charismatic leader with enough confi­dence and passion to inspire them and make success believable. · 
The first resistance to act embraces a skewed sense of community which sep­arates certain people into groups ­some worthy of concern and others not. The later position follows the wider social pattern of shirking responsibility for our own power. Power. not in the sense of authority, prestige or domi­nance, but in the fact that everything we do creates.an effect-in favor of change or the status quo. Power. the ability to act, choose and influence life. is the essence of our existence. Ultimately, the feeling of powerlessness and despair in the face of the ruins hin­ders action. 
I find insight in the afterward of Jim Wallis' newest book, "God's Politics." He reflects on a saying of a co­organizer in response to laments of missing lead­ers like Martin Luther King, Jr. to head the. charge. She would insist, "We are the one's we've been waiting for." We­in this moment. in this place -are the ones neces­sary to create the change we long to see in the world. As Nelson Mandela stated at his inau­guration, "Our deepest fear is not that we are inade­quate. Our deepest fear is that we are pow­erful beyond measure. It is our light, not our dark­ness, that most frightens us ... Your playing small doesn't serve the world. There's nothing enlightened about shrinking so that other people won't feel insecure around you. We are all meant to shine ... " 
As we prepare for action, we need to form our understanding of the issues and the values that motivate our action. The principles, whether they are based religiously or secularly, are the founda­tions. For instance, in Catholic Social Teaching. one finds the principles of human dignity (everyone must be respected and treated like an expres­sion of the divine). participation (every­one must be free to partake in the insti­tutions of their community) and stew­ardship. We must be caretakers of cre­ation and use our gifts for the common good -as guiding values for our lives. These teachings help inform our con­science on what kind of world we need to work for and which movements cor­respond to that effort. Thus, initiatives for living wages for workers, a morato­rium on the death penalty and the pro­tection of natural resources from all polluters would be a few in line with 
such principles. The first revelation is our ability to act. The second is to realize our power is most effectively used in 
community with oth­ers. Indeed, change throughout history has not come from 
single actors. but mass communities demanding rights and justice. 
As we form a community of unique people working for a bet­
ter world, we model for ourselves and the world our goal. As we mend our disagreements, integrate each voice and build relationships that foster understanding and respect, we remake our­

selves. In that victory, we become closer to our goal to remake the world. While despair may continually creep in and frustration with the world may depress us, that community-oriented around the power of principles -will keep us strong and committed. We find the hope through the communal strug­gle. 
Kamaria Porter is a junior history major. Her column appears every other Wednesday. Contact her at kporter@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Naturalized Americans treated as second class 
The U-Wire column titled "U.S. President Should Stay American" that appeared on Jan. 31, fails to make a serious argument in favor of keeping the status quo and limiting the highest office to U.S. born Americans. Mr. Gardner begins his column by asking: "Should a foreigner be allowed to run for president?" He misses the point, or is perhaps asking the wrong question. Once a permanent resident becomes an American citizen, U.S. law (to the best of my knowledge) no longer treats him or her as a foreigner except in matters of national security (intelligence) and serving in the highest · office of the land. Yet, Henry Kissinger, who acted as Secretary of State and National Security Advisor, was born a German. Madeleine Albright, another Secretary of State, was born a Czech. Although it should be considered. per­haps the national security argument isn't rock solid. 
As for Mr. Gardner's comment on foreign-born Americans not being willing to fight and die for their chosen country, maybe he should think of the many "foreigners" who have died in Gulf War I and II (and other wars) as members of the U.S. Armed Forces. I believe they bled red, white and blue defending U.S. interests. In some instances they even died for our country without having received U.S. citizen­ship. 
Finally, I think we should admire those who choose to become Americans instead of thinking those who were born here are somehow worth more. I understand matters of national identity and even national security are' complicat­ed, but the question stands: when will naturalized Americans no longer be treated as second class citizens? 
Victor Carmona MTS Candidate 2006 Off-Campus Feb. I 

TODAY'S STAFF OBSERVER POLL
News Sports Kate Antonacci Pat Leonard Megan O'Neil Ken Fowler What kind of discrimination do you
Jeannine Privat Tom Dorwart 

feel is most prevalent at Notre
Viewpoint Scene Becca Rosswurm Becca Saunders Dame and Saint Mary's? Graphics Illustrator Mike Harkins Graham Ebetsch 

Graham Ebetsch Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver. com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"/believe in my right to be wrong, and still more in my right to be right." 
Owen Lattimore author 

THE OBSERVER 






IEWPOINT
Wednesday, February 2, 2005 page II 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Take a closer look at diversity 
Talking about divorsity is socond nature for mo. YPs, I am a whit1~. Catholie American (though I don't n~ally consider mys1df Catholic any longer). but my lifP PxperiencPs and upbringing have loft with an innall> snnso of how important divorsity is. I was born and rais1~d in llawaii, a place about as cosmopolitan and diverso as tlwy come. Tolerance was the norm. and it always Slll~nwd absurd to me that people could discriminate on tho basis of dhnidty. Sure. tlwro wPn~ jokPs about tlw habits of diiT1mmt ntllllic groups; indned, as a white (H'rson, or "haoln," I was ol'tPII on thn rncniving nnd of' s ur.h r.o mnw nts. But no o1w took it to heart. WP loanwd how Lo laugh at ourselves. rnalizPd that such gnneral­izations wnn~ ridiculous. and shan~d in a colloctive id1•ntity that bridg1~d our dil'­fPI'<!IICes. 
Thn fact that so many poo­piP in llawaii an! hapa, or mixPd-raco, also played a role in forming my outlook on race ndations. To nw. it was IWVPr odd to SIH~ intiHTacial couples or to havn frie1Hls who wern llawaiian/Japanese/ChinPse/lrish. I mysoll' have l!ight different ethnicitil~s. albnit all white (Irish, Polish, Swedish, Bohemian. (;nrman, Belgian. Croatian and English-a verita­bll' l·:uropPan mutt). and many of' my friends could best evnn that. In high school, I was cPrtainly an Pthnk minority in tho classroom. My high school graduating r.l1tll~'wa:s· 'prubnb·~y 1a·bbt'ft' IJO -percent· ., · Asian, or "hapa." That being said. I never felt unromfortabln because of this. Again, there were 
Rethink comparison 

____.___ ~-..····-·--: --..._--. 


It is not always easy being Jewish at a school where it seems likl' practically everybody is, in some sense. Catholic. Imagine lwing in a 200-person auditorium when the teacher asks every­OIW to rais1~ their hand if they are not Catholic. Imagine the shock wlwn you l'ind that yours is tho only hand up. It is for this reason that I am not going to stay silent and feel the need to respond to Dan Allen's .Jan. 31 response, "Play Doesn't Protect Women." It is !Hill thing to voice your displeasure about the "Vagina Monologues," but to compare it to Nazi Germany is inappropriate and uncalled for. 
First off. I am not going to sit here and claim to be the most faithful Jew, for I do not speak much Hebrew, and I will be the first to laugh at a Jewish joke. But I lind it very difficult to sit around and let Allen trivialize an event that killed thousands of my ancestors. There arc many events of mass murder that can be compared to the tragic events of the Holocaust, but you chose to compare it to a play. I recognize it is a controversial play, but once again I stress that it is a play. 
You elaim that you are helping to protect our Catholic mission here at Notre Dame by voicing your displeasure over this play, yet you choose to compare it to the Holocaust in which the Jewish religion was nearly wiped out. This was an event where Jews saw their friends and families murdered simply because they were Jewish. So here is my advice, if you want to be entertained or want to be a part of "The Vagina Monologues," -be my guest, for it is your right. As for you, Allen, I suggest you take some time out of your life to read "The Diary of Anne Frank," take a trip to the Holocaust Museum and rethink what you wrote. 
Brian Seremet Sophomore O'Neill Hall Feb. I 

always jokes from my friends (/'urthcrPd by tlw fact 
that I can't tan; I burn, peel and am whiter than I 
was bcforn), but they nevnr had malicious intent. Diversity has also been ever-present in my family situation. I have three siblings-onn sister, Michelle (30), and two brothers. Patrick 
(27) and Sean (23). Michelle, Sean and I are all biological children of my parents, but Pat was adopt1~d from South Korea as a baby. My father was in the Peace Corps in Korea, has many friends there and speaks l1uent Korean. In addition, my family lived in 
Seoul for two years before I was born. So wlwn my par­ents decided to adopt, they 
began looking for options in Korea. Sometimes people ask me if it's odd to have a brother of another race. To be honest, I never really 
think of it in those terms. Pat is my brother; that's all there is to it. When I intro­duce peoplP to Pat, I never feel like an explanation is nec­essary. When I'm alone with those people again and they look at me with perplexed expressions, I never know what they're confused about. Inevitably they ask me how Pat came to be a part of the family, and then I understand and explain. 
I remember several instances where either I was talking with my mom or she was talking to a group of people and she would mention her "three preg­nancies." This always threw me off, because I.natu­r·aiJ.y assumed that with three siblings and myself, she'dhave been pregnant four times. After a moment, I'd realize my mistake. I always felt good 
about naturally assuming things that way. 
Notre Dame has beiHl quite an adjustmPnl in terms of diversity. I've never seen so many white people in my life. This does not mean. lwwi'Vt!r, that Notre Dame is not a somewhat diverse placl'. ArP there a lot of rich, white, conservative, Catholic kids who have enjoyed similar life experiencns'! Sure. But they're not necessarily the 111ajority. And ev1~11 among this group, one can f'ind diversity if one looks for it. I think the greatest probl1~ms we haVI! hero at Notre Dame arc a lack of dialogue and int(!raction between people of different backgrounds and detri­mental preconceptions on all sides of tlw issues of diversity. One of my principal f'rustratiims is that I often feel prejudged because of my racP. PeopiP look at me and see "just another white kid." First of' all, not all white people can be lumped into one homog­enous group. And second of all, I do know what il is· like to go through life as an ethnic minority, though I certainly didn't suiTnr from discrimination the way so many other ethnic minorities do. OpmJ-minded­ness is essential to our learning and getting to know one another. 
I'd be lying if I said I was "colorblind." On the con­trary, growing up in Hawaii taught me to sl'e colo1· as beautiful. It's an important part of who WP are, but it also shouldn't be the singlP word that comes to mind when we describe oursl'lves. 
Notre Dame must make a more conscious ~~!Tort Lo foster and increase all types of div1~rsity on campus -racial, intl~rnational. religious. political. sexual, etc. In the meantime, however, lPt's makP tlw most of' what WI! have. It's Diversity Awareness WPPk. So look around at your friends, find dilTerences and talk about them. If you've got nothing to talk about, then you've finally found the problPm. 
Brian Klein frcshm.>n Morrissey Hall 1:cb. I 


Clarifying our mission 
We, Christina and Anamarfa. the organiz­ers of the Maria Goretti Project, would like to apologize to you for conveying that the idea for the lecture series was solely to bring awareness about violence against women. While that was one main goal of the project. we thought it was important to do this in the context of other issues sur­
rounding womanhood. 
In order to discuss violence against women, we believe. we must first discuss what is being threatlmed by that violence -the inherent dignity of women. This was the purpose of the first night of the series and the first lecture on the second night. We are sorry that your impres­sion of these two lec­tures was that Nicole Garnett and Teresa Collett were glorifying stay-at-home mothering. This was not our impres­sion of either of their talks at all. 

Instead, it seemed to us that both were discussing their dual vocations as mother and law professor (neither of these women are stay-at-home moms, though stay-at-home mothering was discussed). We believe that this lit in to the week as a whole because both talks discussed the dignity of women. Collett addressed this in a more theological way, and Garnett did so in a more personal-experience manner. Violence against women was still given top priority and the most time overall (the second lec­ture on Tuesday, all of Wednesday and all of Thursday). 
We would like to clarify why we chose Maria Goretti. She is a saint partly because 
she suffered a painful death instead of con­senting to her neighbor's sexual advances. 
This is noble, and does not suggest that the blame for the rape would have been put on Gorctti had she been raped, nor does her exclamation, "No! It is a sin!" suggPst 
that. 

I Ier exclamation suggests instead 
that. in that context, tlw sex art would have been a sin. She would have been one of tlw sinners, yes, if slw had con­sentnd to the act, but not if she had bem1 raped. This 
refusal is only part of' the reason that she is a saint,,and not the main 
reason we chose to name the project after her. After she was attacked and illl>rtally wounded, she was able, only by grace, to forgive 
her attacker and nvon prayed for him as she was dying. This commitment to God's love in the midst of a painful and untimnly death is, in our minds, both admirable and inspiring. The healing Maria was able to find through God's love and forgiveness is 
what we hope for those who have also been 
victims of violence; this is what we wanted 
to convey to the women and men who 
attended the Maria Goretti Project 
Anamarfa Scaperlanda-Ruiz sophomore Howard Hall/ Sanriago Christina Dehan 
sen tor 
Badin Hall Feb. I 
THE OBSERVER 




CENE
page 12 
Wednesday, February 2, 2005 

By RAMA GOTTUMUKKALA Assisranr Scene Ediror 
If "The Incredibles" felt like a down-to-earth, family film of epic proportions, it should come as no surprise that two of the key contribu­tors to the Pixar film share many similarities that are echoed in the film's tight-knit family. 
John Walker, a graduate of Notre Dame, and Pamela Walker, a gradu­ate of Saint Mary's, met while working on summer theatre productions here at Notre Dame. After working in various the­ater productions in Chicago and New York and moving to Los Angeles, they found a home at Pixar, one of the most prestigious anima­tion studios in the world. John is the producer of "The Incredibles," while Pamela, a native of South Bend, teaches at Pixar University, the studio's educational arm. 
If we could start off with a few Notre Dame and Saint Mary's questions, what dorms did you both live In? 
J: I lived in Grace [1-Iall]. 
P: I was at Saint Mary's in Le Mans Hall. 
What were your fondest memories at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, respectively? 
J: One of the best times for me, and maybe for Pam too, was that we used to do summer the­atre. We'd stay at Notre Dame during the summer and do four or five plays. The company was a sum­mer stock company so we hung out together, ate together and worked together. It was a ~eat experience. 
P: Ditto ments for me as a theatre major that I had to take -that really helped me fully understand not only cast mem­ber and crew and their functions. And all that helps the scene flow well and he's more of a producer now than an actor, but we both produced at one point or another. It's nice to have an appreciation and a knowl­edge about what everybody does and we got to do that in the theatre department, which I thought was invaluable. 


and since that's where our love and creativity started, that's where we [decided to] trade vows. We've enjoyed going back over the years when we were working in Chicago because the head of the department, Dr. Bane, invited us back to listen in and critique the URTA auditions every year. So we got to go back and see the new facilities, [such as] Washington Hall and the black box theatre upstairs, and then have din­ner with him at Morris Inn. That was 
Pamela Walker attended Saint Mary's College and majored In theatre. She has How have your educa­worked as an actress most of her life and now teaches at the Plxar University. 
tions at the two Institu­tions prepared you for the Industry and your respective professions? 
J: We both were pretty active in the theatre department. Although I was an English major, so I didn't actually major in that. But I had something to do with all of the plays. I didn't always get cast in them but I would work somehow on them as much as I could. It got me, at least, thinking about doing it professionally and it got me over the hump of realizing that people could make their livings working in the arts. That didn't seem possible when I got to Notre Dame. 

P: It was great in summer theatre because we got to work cooperatively with other people who were students, [such as] specializing in costumes. Or if we took stage management or scene -there were certain require-
I read that you were married at Notre Dame, which Is almost a true Domer's dream. What was that experience like? 
P: Yes, we did. We got married at the church on campus. When we first started our professional roles, my first role was an equity debut in sign language in "Children of a Lesser God." [John] proposed in this beauti­ful theatre in the northern woods of Wisconsin on a lake in front of 500 customers on stage -in sign lan­guage. So we had a wonderful engagement and we decided to go back down to the campus where we enjoyed so many wonderful times in the theatre together, you know, riding our bikes from one campus to the other. We did a lot of bicycling back and forth between the two campuses special. 
Now, I'd like to move on to your lives since leaving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. For John, what led you to become a producer In Hollywood? And for Pam, your job at Plxar University? 
J: I had worked in the theatre once we had gotten out of Notre Dame. Pam went to acting school in New York and I went to an acting school in San Francisco -the ACT, the American Conservatory Theater. And after we had finished a couple of years in those plays, I had a job working in a summer stock theatre as an actor and Pam and I went there together. We worked as actors together for a while. I had always wanted to be a producer, like an actor/manager from the 19th century. I wanted to sort of single-handedly revive that genre. So what I tried to do was produce and act and I did that for a while in the theatre. But after a while, I got more interested in producing and managing than I did in acting. So gradually, the acting sort of fell away. I ran theatres in Chicago and Pam and I produced together, did some work in Chicago and little bit in New York. I've been running a theatre called Victory Gardens up in Chicago and Pam was appearing in a play there. She came home one night and said that an agent from Los Angeles had seen her work and if she came out to Los Angeles, he'd take her as a client. So she said, "Guess what, honey, I'm going to L.A." [Laughs!! said, "Wait a minute! You go to L.A., we've got these two kids and we have a job here." But she said, "We need to go to L.A." So she went to Los Angeles and signed with this agent and I thought, "Well. shr'll go out then• for a fpw months and then come home" and I'd call her hen she'd be coming hvttmtiBitn coming there. I Los 
going ua"-"''"'''n' 

out and i It turned O.fi.ft.t!~ft, theatre m . 
ended up at' · .. surprise to me:··.."·,·.,'"'"''"' pie that I knew. and I passed 
I e n d e d up ""''''"'"·"·'"' 
Bros., wo~,~!~Jil2P 
Giant" Isn't as well kn•ow~tiis "The lncredibles" but ::l'''l~ri1·i~:;~l success and has ', ~~ becoime an underground favorite 
•m=..,.•,•n fans. What do you 
rernt.lnb1er most about the film, as the associate produce 


J; We didn't have any time to it animated. We made in about two years, which is really quick for an animated 111m. It was a lot of pres­sure and it was a big disappointment because we had worked so hard and thought it was really a wonderful !ilm. It was really well-received criti­cally but j audiences. may have e: as being a ! was quite di out. 
Pam, how d with Pixar « rience beer 
P: My ma challenge, B raise these while we \'. ranks in th moving bey opportunit} which I die was try to s lei moveme running Vic was able to 
. dren cam bPcause pa1 could Pasily tirnr and c• got to Pixa1 high schoo and I was V' tion for m.} rolling in n this opp1 California, s and half ye; lncredibles four days a work the 
some aware 
at Pixar, an· 
do this pl. 
screening r( 
course din(l 
of theatre i 
and we had 
sion after i 
time. The p 
that togeth 
teach som£ 
University. 1 
be the mas1 
to go in the 
ing myself. 
little bit an< 
well as acti 
short 20-m 
classroom 
extras and : 
I can do tl" ' i, elcoming 
e and a 
parts of W< 
feels like \\ 
direction be 
heads with 
they're not 
flow to thin! 
THE 0BSERVIR 


CENE
Wednesday, February 2, 2005 
page 13 

kermakeit 


t connect with right movement, not to sound too L.A. ~n marketing or anything. 
• remember it r of love. which John, what experiences did you 1g when it came gain from working on "The 
lncredlbles" that you'll cherish 

while producing the film? come Involved has your expe­J: It was the first time I had the dng there? producer job on a big movie. It took a 
long time and there were hundreds • ohjc~ctiv1~ and and hundreds of people working on th of us. was to it. I think that onn of the most fullill­lm·ful daughters ing, interesting and most fun parts ot' climbing tlw was wlwn we went to Los Angeles to 
in Chicago and seoro the lilm. We had a 105-piece which was tlw orchestra around the MGM sound in Los Angeles stage, wlwre thc~y did all those fabu­
cn of my goals lous musicals in the 1940s. And there nlld have para!-was our movie prntty much done and ·lwn I.Johnl was there was an unbelievably gifted 
ll
•ns in Chicago, I orclwstra and conductor and com­n~ and tlw r.hil-posnr doing the score for our movie. aftn school, And I thought that was really exciting . d LhNl~) (;arliers and wonderful. I loved the score from JHll't:c•.nt ctfyonr "The lncrmlibles" and for !composer! nl. S11 Whl'n lw Michacd (;iaeehino. it was his first two children in feature score. I think that that was a 11'1'11 California nmlly great nxpnrinncc-just seeing 1d getting attPn-t.lw nwvie conw tognther becausn it's th«' hall was a very slow proenss in animation and then lw got. you don't sn11· much or what the in northri-n movin's going to be until right ncar Pout of thn four llw end. And these shots would finish k to makn "Tiw up and they would just look spectacu­on an uirplann Jar. much. much better than what we fly up north to had ever hoped and thought WI~ could 1'L hltVP to take~ do. To S«~o them look so good was a 10! and I could n~ally ftlll~;:perience. 
~~:·~~~;~t 1~\7fi~:~~~ On a more~beat note, who were ultimately st11 rt your favorlt~ ¢haracters in "The own bPcaust~ I lncredlbl$s~? pl9~!ng from the large to two tPnnngn cast oteoloitullridlvltluals? 
1·:~~~l~ 11! ~~::~,~: 1~\'1\ P: 1\hH~k lht~;~~~i~~~ravoritn and I 
haS ll\OV!'d lllP think f haVI~ .Sbrne ofhi$ pnergy. 
~~~:!i~gi~~~~! ~:::.:~:::~~~·~J····ifl~~;b~~~~~~~f::~~Ll:~~l~ ~~:"J~'~\~~:::~~:~ ;~;~·~~ial!~:r~~·~~~~~
*go ln a. big th~4} $ho':~ffi1yf#>\ihfite.t\d ~htm did It in < ftA:iHf just for your information, ~~, I~ had sor111i. th~iDVD lor "The lncredibles"l is Hi \¥11$ $CJ!d-out g'&ti"lg to have a little short on it about :ala,cda.im with tlwbaby, Jack-Jack. And it's just hys­i~,astlng a.r<mnd terical. 
Rf~, :~~nl~~~ On the subject of the "lncredlbles" 
had likn <tfive~ DVD, scheduled to be released on couple evmltQg$ .. March 15, John, you were a contrlb­ikw~ll attended/ qtor to the director/producer com­worth of discti:S.~ mentary track, along with Brad 
l~ n~ally lovely BJh:f; How was that experience? 1
i) 1 ::'~~~~~ lt:1~/~~~ ~~Well. it was bizarre. You sit there lassos at Pixar aft~t working for four and a half realized that to ynarl;*nd yqJ,J're completely exhaust­own fate. I had ed. A*tl. Y9JHte watching the movie ofiilrn and writ-and lq#kfij)g!)tt each other. going iW to produce a "what qp y(i#tcmcmber about this?" 
be directing as And all yoa·~tiinember is that it was WI've written a hard. hard, l'#ird and we had to talk lie and use the about thd~~ l~~ was a really surreal and crew and experience witching the movie and ing to whatcwer talking about t~ with Brad. We had a y'vn been very couple of beet~ before we started ­nd it's been a it might've Iielped! [Laughs! But 1t lw in separate there's a lot o( great stuff on [the ~ our things. It DVDI. ing in a fateful 're not bumping Pam, Plxar has been associated 
do things how with a very high value for their 1 be. There's a films, as both critically acclaimed Is like this is the and very profitable films. How did 

th 
to 
working at Plxar Influence you and where your career goes from here? 
P: Well. I'm thrilled that they've been so hospitable. I just kind or feel like I'm putting in the universe my own goals as an actor that you don't always get to say when you do other people's scripts. Even when I do other people's scripts, I'm working for like minds. Every character I play kind of gets under my skin and becomes a part of who I am. This Georgia O'KeeiTc vehicle that I've had 

in my back pocket for all these years seems like something I've been want­ing to say. And so I think the defini­tive about O'Keeffe has not bee.n done and I've got that goal set in my mind. to try to make that happen. Things are unfolding as they should, whether it's with Pixar or with some­body else. We're getting introduced to people that we haven't been able to meet before. which is very excit­ing. And I feel that for [John] and I, with the foundation of our relation­ship at Notre Dame was through our work and that feels right to me. that direction. I don't want to split my focus so much that the relationship falls apart. as easily happens in this business. So you have to balance everything properly and Pixar has been a great place to be as a founda­tion. John, could you shed some light 
----------------------------------------------' 
on what your future projects might be? 
J: I'm not sure what it's going to be. Brad and I are talking about doing another film together. He's got a Jot of ideas so we're sort of waiting for him to land on one and then check with Pixar if they'd like to do it. 
I'm sure a lot of people have already asked about a possible sequel for "The lncredlbles," which would make a terrific film If done well. 

J: That's the trick -doing it well and coming up with a good idea. We haven't done that yet. A couple things have to happen first. One would be to have a great idea and the second would be to reassemble the creative team. 
What skills have allowed you both to succeed In your professions and In such a difficult Industry? 
J: I feel like I'm about as skilled as the next person. I think that you just have to keep persevering. There's lots and lots of competition in the movie business and the theatre busi­ness and arts in general. It's not something that usually comes easily or quickly. If you hang in there long enough, most of the other people quit. [Laughs] So I think persever­ance is probably the best thing you can do. 
P: Perseverance, that's a good one . There's a fair amount or rejection. of course, so you just have to build your own philosophy. And I know I find balance through working out and meditation and I've written in jour­nals and I've got volumes and vol­umes of journals. I feel like actors are really misunderstood. So you just have to kind of bracn yoursc•lf against the slings and arrows of a difficult business. But if you feel like tlwn~·s 
something you have to communicaw. in tlw stage or whatever creative outlc~t you lind. you havn to just do it. Thnatre has btwn my creative outlt~t. Sonwtinws I think if I wPn~ a paintl'r, it would be easier. !Laughs! Sonw otlwr way that I could communicate, but it's what I do . 
Finally, what do you both 
feel have been the most 
satisfying accomplish­
ments over the course of 
your careers? 
P: Wnll, one of the high­lights for mn was cnrtainly 

·­
my profc~ssional dnbut with !John I in "Sign Languagc~" and the proposal and all tlw stuff I told you about. But WI' also producnd a two-pnson play rallPd Snamarks that did rPallv wnll and got somP awan(~ and it was a r!'al highlight. 
.J: WI' prodtH'I'd a show off-Broadway togntlwr and that was a big accomplish­nwnt. sonwthing that l'vp always b1~nn really proud of. Sitting in the audinncn when "Thn lncrediblns" premiered and wl11•n wn had a big party at l'ixar for about l,HOO peopln -that was a rnally gn~at night. And Pam and I wnnt around the world with the director and his wifn. pro­moting the film. That was amazing to see our charac­ters and our movie every­
where we went. from London to Tokyo to Sydney. 
P: That's quite an 

accomplishment because these last three or four months have been non-stop. First. going around the world. As a studnnt. I went to Home through the Saint Mary's pro­gram and I talked about taking [John! there in 25 ytHtrs. So if we never get to go again, last Nov1~rnbnr we made it to Venice and Home in quite style because we wen~ driven around and getting private tours. hanging out with Peter Jackson in New Zealand. It was an amazing trip for five weeks and then we've got all these award shows. So today is actu­ally the first day of normalcy since last October so it fenls like quite an accomplishment to survive it all. But we're kind of tired. !Laughs] 
Contact Rama GottumukkaJa at rgottumu@nd.edu 
-

r 
• ~ 
'' 
page 14 Wednesday, February 2, 2005
The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Illinois defends No. 1 ranking, takes care of Spartans 
BC remains undefeated; Clemson upsets Terps; Iowa St. gets Big XII victory 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich.-Dee Brown backpedalled with his right arm held high and wrist cocked after making a 3-point­er. 
It was a sight No. 1 Illinois forced Michigan State to get used to. 
Luther Head scored 22 points, Brown had 18 and the Fighting Illini made 13 3-point­ers to remain undefeated with an 81-68 victory over the 12th­ranked Spartans on Tuesday night. 
Illinois (22-0, 8-0 Big Ten) was expected to face a tough test against Michigan State (14­4, 5-2) in an arena known to be raucous. But several Illini calmly made 3-pointers and when they were not making shots from beyond the arc, they scored on low-post moves and mid-range jumpers in their finely tuned half-court offense. 
On the other end of the court, the Illini wouldn't let Michigan State get much done because they seemed to have their bod­ies. arms or hands in every passing lane. 
Deron Williams had 14 points and five assists for Illinois and James Augustine added 11 points. 
Alan Anderson scored 14 points for the Spartans, who lost their 12th straight game against a ranked opponents, dating to the regional Jlnals of the 2003 NCAA tournament. 
Michigan State's Paul Davis and Shannon Brown each scored 12 points while Maurice Ager and reserve Kelvin Torbert both had 10. 
Illinois led by 17 points mid­way through the second half and were ahead 73-58 with 
6:37 to go before the Spartans rallied to avoid an absolute rout. . 
They pulled within seven twice, but the second time, Brown ended their comeback hopes with a three-point play on a driving layup ttiat left him crumpled up against the basket support with 1:56 left. 
In the opening minutes, the game matched its billing with four ties and four lead changes. 
Brown's layup with 13:59 left capped a 10-0 run and put Illinois ahead for good. 
The Illini led by as many as 11 in the first half and were ahead 41-33 at halftime. Five players combined to go 9-of-17 on 3-pointers. 
-· 

AP 
Illinois' Deron Williams shoots a 3-polnter against Michigan State's Kelvin Torbert In the llllni's 81-68 win over the Spartans. 
After Michigan State pulled within three early in the second half, Illinois quieted the crowd with another 10-0 run, the last eight points coming on Head's two 3-pointers and dunk. Boston College 62, West Virginia 50 
Craig Smith overpowered a collapsing defense to score 2 3 points and No. 5 Boston College beat West Virginia to remain one of Division I's two unbeaten teams. 
The burly forward was score­less while the Mountaineers built an 18-9 lead with 9:21 left in the first half. Then he scored 17 of the Eagles' next 24 points, giving them the lead for good, 33-32, with a layup with 
16:04 remaining. 
Boston College (19-0, 8-0 Big East) matched its school record 19-game winning streak set in 1968-69. It already has its highest ranking and best start ever. Only top-ranked Illinois (22-0). which beat No. 12 Michigan State 81-68 on Tuesday night, has a better record. 
The Mountaineers (12-7, 2-6) have lost six of seven. including a 20-point loss at home to BC on Jan. 16. They were led by Mike Gansey and Tyrone Sally with 10 points each. 
For the first time' since February 2001, the Eagles played before their third con­secutive capacity crowd at home. But that didn't help at the start as they forced up out­side shots while West Virginia surrounded the 250-pound Smith near the basket. 
The Eagles missed their first six shots and scored only on three 3-pointers in their first 12 shots. But Smith got going and so did BC's defense, which held West Virginia scoreless on its last seven shots of the half. 
Trailing 23-15, Smith scored five straight points, sparking a 10-0 run that gave the Eagles a 25-23 halftime lead. West Virginia went ahead 28-25 on Gansey's 3-pointer and Johannes Herber's basket on a goaltending call. 
Then Smith took control, scoring the Eagles' next eight points and giving them a 33-32 lead. They never trailed again despite their lowest-scoring game of the season. Their pre­vious low was a 63-60 overtime win over Holy Cross on Dec. 9. 
Smith began his run with a three-point play and followed with a dunk, a free throw and a driving layup. Once his team­mates found a way to feed him the ball inside, even four defenders who surrounded him on one play couldn't stop him. 


West Virginia did cut the lead to 42-38 on Gansey's two free throws with 8:27 remaining, but the Eagles went on a 12-3 run that made it 54-41 with 
3:10 to go. Jared Dudley, who scored 15 points, and Jermaine Watson, w_ho h~d 1.3.. lCJLCh, h<!d four points in the run. 
If the Eagles win their next game on Saturday night at Seton Hall, they'll become the first Big East team to start a season at 20-0. Clemson 88, Maryland 73 
Sharrod Ford tied his career high with 25 points and Clemson snapped a 13-game losing streak against No. 22 Maryland with its victory over the Terrapins. 
The Tigers (11-10, 2-7 Atlantic Coast Conference) had­n't beaten the Terps since a 78­65 overtime win at Littlejohn Coliseum on Dec. 4, 1997. And this figured to end like the oth­ers with Maryland back in the Top 25 after victories over Duke and Georgia Tech last week. 
But the Terrapins (13-6, 4-4) started the game cold and stayed that way. 
They fell behind 13-2 and, after briefly moving in front 23­22 midway through the opening half, missed their final 13 shots of the half to fall behind 45-29. 
Ford and the Tigers, who had lost five straight and seven of eight, made sure Maryland wouldn't recover. 
Ford scored nine points dur­ing tlw Tigers' run to close the Cirst half. then made four straight inside baskets as Clemson pushed the lead to 62­42. 
Iowa St. 77, Baylor 51 
. Err~P1P.!1 Ata)r~h9,IJ r,Ia.1:t.., 
4 
scored 1'5 of his seasrm-high 19 points during a 19-0 game­turning run in the first half, leading Iowa State to a victory over Baylor. 
Curtis Stinson added 15 points and Tasheed Carr 11 for the Cyclones (10-8, 2-5 Big 12), who followed up their upset of No. 14 Oklahoma with an impressive performance. After a slow start, they ran with impunity, shot 52.5 percent, forced 23 turnovers and even made five 3-pointers. 
With a two-game winning streak, Iowa State has consecu­tive victories for the first time since finishing December with four straight wins. 
Baylor (9-9, 1-6), which has only six scholarship players, has lost four straight and five of its last six after a promising start under second-year coach Scott Drew. Patrick Fields led Baylor with 16 points and was his team's only player in double figures. 
Aaron Bruce, coming off a 27-point outing against Texas A&M, scored only nine on 3-for­7 shooting. The 6-foot-3 fresh­man had been averaging 17 .2. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3 p.m. AI dassifieds musr be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FoR SALE 
One bedroom condo near UNO. Appliances $72,000 280-8160 Kim Kollar 

FOR RENT 
8-bdrm house close to ND.Great area.2773097 
DOMUS PROPERTIES NOW LEASING FOR THE 2005-2006 SCHOOL YEAR ONLY 4 HOUSES LEFT WELL MAINTAINED HOUS­ES NEAR CAMPUS. 2-5-7-8 BED­ROOM HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS, SECURITY SYSTEMS, WASHER, DRYERS. MAINTENANCE STAFF ON CALL. ALSO LEASING FOR THE 2006­2007 SCHOOL YEAR-2-3-4-5-6-7­8-10 BEDROOMS. HOUSES GOING QUICK. VISIT OUR WEB­SITE WWW.DOMUSKRAMER.COM OR CONTACT: KRAMER 574-234­2436 OR 574-315-5032. 

Great 6-7 bdrm home available 
6/1/05. Also very nice 3-bdrm avail­
able NOW. Both Close to 
ND,W/D,on-site parking. ND .Internet Canopy access. Call Joe 
Crimmins 574-229-3659 
COLLEGE PARK CONDOMINI­
UMS AVAILABLE FOR 05-06 
SCHOOL YEAR. TWO BED­
ROOM, TWO BATHS. 
HURRY 235-7234 FOR MORE 
DETAIL. 

Great homes ideal tor 3-6 students. Close to ND.Nice area.2773097 
COLLEGE PARK CONDO FOR LEASE 2005-2006 Academic year-
Available June 1 ,2005 2 Bedrooms­2 Baths, Washer/Dryer, Security System. 
Fully Furnished (574)233-7373 or Salvaty@ earthlink. net 
5 bdrm on ND Ave available 05-06. 1000/mo. 
email ndhouses@yahoo.com 

PERSONAL 

Spring Break 2005 with STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator. Hiring campus reps. Call for group discounts. Info/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 www.ststravel.com 
1994 ND grads hoping to adopt. Please see ParentProfiles.com for more info (Arizona/Michael & Kathryn). 
Bahamas Spring Break Cruise 5 Days $299• Includes Meals, Celebrity Parties' Panama City, Daytona $159! Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Nassau $499! 
Award Winning Company! SpringBreakTravel.com 1·800-678­6386 
Note to self: 121 is not the same as 112. 
I'd like to be under the sea. In an octopus' garden in the shade. 
Bring it back, NHL. 

Wednesday, February 2, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
Berra sues TBS for 'Sex and the City' advertisetnents 
Legendary catcher claims TV station illegally used his name and tarnished his image in raunchy subway posters 
made in connection with Berra 
"engenders a moral taint that 

NEW YOHK -llall of Farner has damaged his otherwise Yogi Berra has filed a $10 mil­spotless reputation," say his lion lawsuit against TBS, court papers, filed last week claiming the cable television and posted on thesrnoking­network sullied his name by gun.com Web site. using it in a racy advertise­The 79-year-old Berra "is a ment for its "Sex & the City" married man and has children reruns. and grandchildren," his court 
Berra's papers, filed in papers say. "lie is a deeply Manhattan's state religious man who Supreme Court, has maintained 
Associated Press 
"[Yogi Berra] is a

say the Turner and continues to Broadcasting married man and maintain a moral System Inc. ad. lifestyle and has a
has children and 

which has spotless reputa­
grandchildren . ...

appeared on tion for integrity, buses and in sub­[lie] continues to decency and ways, caused moral character."
maintain a moral 

"severe damage Berra's lawyer,
lifestyle."

to his reputation" Lewis Smoley, with its refernnce said he was told to Kim Cattrall's Lewis Smoley TBS stopped run­sexually promis­ning the ad last
Yogi Berra's lawyer 

cuous character. August. Samantha. Nevertheless, 
The offending ad, Berra's he said, he wants the court to court papers say, queried read­order the superstation to never nrs about the definition of run the ad again. "yogasrn." Possible definitions: The Berra suit seeks $5 mil­
(li) a type of yo-yo trick, (b) sex lion on each of two causes of with Yogi Berra and (c) what action: commercial use of his A spokeswoman for TBS, Berra, a catcher for the New and quotable characters. Samantha has with a guy from name without permission and based in Atlanta, said Tuesday: York Yankees from 1946-63 He also managed the 
yoga class. The answer is the unjust enrichment by use of his "We do not comment on litiga­who lives in Montclair, N.J., is Yankees and the New York rnferencc to the sexual act name without permission. tion." one of baseball's most beloved Mets to pennants. 

NFL 


Smith denies TV report 
Running back says he is not ready to retire 
Associated Press in Dallas, and then you lose 
guys, it takes a toll." 

JACKSONVILLE, Fla. Smith was lauded by several Emmitt Smith denied a report players in this year's Super Bowl Tuesday that he will retire later as a role model, a man who con­this week. ducted himself the right way on 
ESPN.com. citing unidentified and ofT the field. "confidants" of the star running "It would be a great loss for back. reported the league," New that Smith will England running retire Thursday in back Corey Dillon
"Did you see my

Jacksonville, site said. ''I'm going to 
year last year? Do

of this year's miss him. I looked Super Bowl. you think I'm up to him, watch­Smith spent the ing him win Super
ready to retire?" 

last two seasons Bowls." with Arizona after Added Patriots 
Emmitt Smith

13 years with linebacker Ted Dallas. running back Johnson: "He's 
Smith, 35, denied the report in comments to The Dallas Morning News. 
"Did you sec my year last ynar'? Do you think I'm ready to rntire'?" Smith said in a report on thn newspaper's Web site Ttwsday. 
Smith rushed for 937 yards and nine touchdowns this sea­son. lie has 18,355 yards overall and tfJ4 TDs. lie was the league's most valuable player in 199:t 
lie said on Monday night that he wanted to retire as a member of the Cowboys, the team with which he won three Super Bowls. 
Neither the Cardinals nor Cowboys had any announce­mr.nt<; planned regarding Smith. 
Asked about Smith possibly retiring, former teammate Troy Aikman said: "I hate to speculate on it. At some point it will end, maybe this year or the next. l~rnmitt's had a terrific career. I'm sure the last two years have been difficult for Emmitt in Arizona. 
"One thing in this game, when you play on a team that has been together for as long as we were 
such a low-key, 
classy individual. And what ue's been able to achieve hasn't been given just due. lie's such an ambassador of the game." 

Poker Chips from $4.95;so 
Texas ,.,rll,""'rn from Poker Tables from $299.00 Rentals Available 
Large Selection of Game Tables, Supplies and Table Toppers. 

.wi818'i10 
50510 St. Rd. 933N • South Bend 
574-272-1617 

International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 

The University of Notre Dame 





INNSBRUCK PROGRAM 
Is accepting applications for the 2005-2006 Academic Year 
Extended application deadline: 
March 1, 2005 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/--intlstud 
Questions?-Weber.lS@nd.edu 


Write sports. Call 1-4543. 
-

page 16 Wednesday, February 2, 2005
The Observer + SPORTS 
MLB 



Sosa set to become Oriole after physical 
Cubs trade former All-Star to Baltimore for Jerry Hairston, Jr. and 2 prospects 
Associated Press 
BALTIMORE -Sammy Sosa could don a Baltimore Orioles' cap for the first time as soon as Wednesday, after he completes his physical and his trade from the Chicago Cubs "is approved by baseball commissioner Bud Selig. 
The Orioles on Tuesday set up a time for the slugger's physical and were making tentative plans for a Wednesday news conference. even though the commissioner's office was awaiting final paperwork before forwarding the trade to Selig. 
Chicago would receive Jerry Hairston Jr. and two minor lea­guers for Sosa, whose up-and­down ride with the Cubs is nearing a conclusion. The Cubs would pay $12 million of Sosa's $17 million salary this year. 
The swap cannot be complet­ed without Selig's blessing because more than $1 million will change hands, but no prob­lems are anticipated. Selig has been appraised of the negotia­tions, and the remaining paper­work is expected to be submit­ted Wednesday. 
Still missing is Sosa's waiver of his no-trade rights as a 10­year veteran with at least five years on the same team, and formal agreement to the restructuring of his contract by the league and union. 
Sosa's contract with Chicago contains a provision that calls for the team's $18 million option for 2006 to become guaranteed if he is traded and for a $19 million team option for 2007 to be added, one that would carry a $4.5 million buy­out. As part of the trade, Sosa will sign an addendum to his contract voiding that provision. 

In addition, Chicago is responsible for a $3.5 million severance payment that must be made within 30 days of the deal. Baltimore becomes responsible for the 2006 option, which carries a $4.5 million buyout. 
The deal also is contingent upon Sosa passing the physical, which will be administered Wednesday by the Orioles team physician, Dr. Charles Silberstein. 
Finalization of the trade can't happen soon enough for the Cubs, who are ready to sign free-agent outfielder Jeromy Burnitz to a one-year contract with a mutual option for 2006. That deal wouldn't be finalized until the Sosa trade is complet­ed. 
The Cubs initiated the swap with the Orioles in an effort to unload the 36-year-old Sosa, who was once a hero in Chicago. But his popularity and numbers dwindled over the past two years, and the Cubs found him to be expendable after a season in which he hit .253 and struck out 133 times. 
Yet his 35 homers were more than any Oriole hit in 2004, and his· new teammates expect his bat to experience a revival this season. 
''I'm looking for him to have a monster year, said Jay Gibbons, whom Sosa will replace in right field. "We need­ed a right-handed power hitter, and here's a guy who hit 35 despite missing time with a bad back. I'd say that makes the middle of the lineup pretty dan­gerous." 

The addition of Sosa means Gibbons will move from right field back at first base, where he played as a minor leaguer. 
'That's OK with me," Gibbons said. "If it helps us win, then this works to our benefit. This is my fifth year here, and it's time to start winning." 
Sosa will certainly add punch to the lineup, but will he be a positive addition to the club­house? He was suspended for corking his bat in 2003, and last season he left early during the Cubs' final game and critical of manager Dusty Baker for drop­ping him to sixth in the batting order. 
"Yeah, some things happened last year. but I'm sure there was a lot of stuff behind the scenes that we don't know about," Orioles outfielder Larry Bigbie said. "I think he will fit right in. Take away the last two years and give him a fresh start, and I bet everything will be fine." 
Bigbie has spent much of the offseason in Indiana, about 20 minutes outside Chicago. lie knows what Cub fans think of Sosa, and he expects that opin­ion might change by July. 
"They're happy to have him out of Chicago, and I'm happy to have him in Baltimore. I think he'll be a great addition to the team and to the city," Bigbie said. "I might end up calling all those Cubs fans around the All­Star break and see how many want him back. Maybe all he needs is a clean slate." 
Sosa has a history of answer­ing challenges with big num­bers. and Camden Yards might be the perfect spot for his new start. One of the cozier ball­parks in the majors. it's tailor­made for home-run hitters. 

Associated Press 
ASPEN, Colo. -When Brian Deegan flew off his motorcycle and went crashing to the ice 40 feet below at last year's Winter X Games, ESPN showed it on what seemed like a continuous loop. 
Sure, there was some news value -Deegan broke both wrists and his leg -but crashes are a big part of Winter X's appeal and ESPN doesn't hesi­tate playing them up. 
"You look on television and it's like Fear Factor, people eating [stuff] all over," snowboarder Tara Dakides said. "People are drawn to things that have severe consequences and injuries. There's definitely a fac­tor of injury and carnage in all aspects of the Winter X games." 
That's for sure. 

With motorcycles backflipping over 90-foot gaps, snowmobiles flying off jumps, and skiers and sn.:.wboarders contorting them­selves up to 20 feet in the air, there are going to be spills and most will be spectacular. 
Like NASCAR fans who watch for the crashes or hockey fans who are there for the fights, a certain segment of the Winter X crowd is there for the wipeouts. 
EXTREME SPORTS 
Crashes just a part of popularity of XGames 
And it's not just the fans. Some athletes get caught up in the car wreck mentality. 
"You don't really wish it upon anyone to crash, but sometimes it's nice to sec a big crash because it's fun," snowmobiler Blair Morgan said. "Definitely you'.ll get all that. exciting rac­ing to the finish and someone cartwheeling down the track. Everything's tied in together." 
Of course, ESPN doesn't set up the courses to ensure injury. The cable network, which creat­ed the X Garnes a decade ago and still organizes every last detail, walks a fine line between making the courses challenging while keeping the competitors relatively safe. 
"I think if the athletes told us something was dangerous, we wouldn't do it," X Games founder Ron Serniao said. "It's never been anything where we've pushed athletes to do something that they were against doing or unsure of doing." 
While this year's event has been relatively tame -snow­boarder Chris Klug's broken col­larbone in practice Friday has been about the worst of it­there have been plenty of spills that have been shown over and over on replays. 
Wednesday, February 2, 2005 
The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
James returns, but Cavaliers fall to Magic 
have sent the game into over­time when Jeff Mcinnis rattled horne a buzzer-beating 3-point­er. But aftnr a brief huddle the officials waved off the shot, with replays clearly showing the ball in Mcinnis' hands as the clock ran out. 
"I was like, 'I hope it doesn't go,"' said Orlando's Grant Hill, who scored 21. "I was so tired. I need to rest up." 
Nets 107, Bulls 97 
Not since he was John Stockton's understudy more than five years ago had Jacque Vaughn played shooting guard. 
Yet there Vaughn was Tuesday night, lilling a hole for the injury-depleted New Jersey Nets and doing the job well as he tied his career high with 23 points in a victory over the Chicago Bulls. 
"lie was a man possessed tonight," said teammate Vince Carter. who was fired up him­self in contributing 31 points. six assists and five rebounds to New Jersey's season-high fourth consecutive victory. 
Vaughn shot 8-for-12 from the field and 7 -for-7 from the foul line, providing the Nets with a much-needed third offensive option behind Carter and Jason Kid d. 
"I can make shots. Percentage-wise, I've been a good shooter throughout my career. The knock probably is I don't shoot enough," said Vaughn. a seven-year veteran. 
Vaughn took the spot in the starting live formerly occupied by Rodney Buford. who sprained his ankle in New Jersey's previous game. The Nets used their 14th different starting lineup of the season. 
Vaughn could not recall the last time he scored 23 points (Dec. 9. 2003). and he didn't seem particularly impressed by his accomplishment. 
"You soc I don't have a stat sheet in my hand. and I would­n't have known if you hadn't told me," he said. "[CartPrl and J-Kidd set my whole table tonight. they put the silverware out there, my napkin. every­thing." 
Kidd contributed 26 points, 13 rebounds and nine assists. nar­rowly missing his 62nd career­triple-double, and Nenad Krstic had 12 points and seven rebounds for a Nets team that won its final three games on a five-game Western road trip and returned home with a boost in confidence. 
After opening the season 2-11 while waiting for Kidd to return from knee surgery, the Nets have injected themselves into the race for first place in the Atlantic Division. 
"We're an ofTensivc jugger­naut, and we throw a little defense out there every once in a while." Kidd said. 
Pistons 105, Wizards 96 
Chaunc11y Billups made the steal. hit the layup, drew the foul and convert1~d tlw three­point play. Less than a minute later, he hit a double-dutch. 25­foot 3-pointor at the shot clock buzzer. 
Suddenly, a one-point lead was seven late in the ro·urth quarter. Billups broke open a tight game, scoring 1 I of his 28 in the final 5: I 0 Tuesday night as the Detroit Pistons beat the Washington Wizards. 
"In the end, Chauncey Billups is one of the best big-game shooters in the league." Washington's Antawn Jamison said. 
Tayshaun Prince added 25 points. Bichard Hamilton scored 23, and Hasheod Wallace had 18 points and 12 n~bounds as the Pistons won tlwir fourth straight and beat the Wizards for the eighth straight timl' on the road. 
Associated Press 
OHLANDO. Fla. -LeBron James' return wasn't enough to lwlp the Cleveland Cavaliers. 
James had 28 points, seven assists and five rebounds in his first game after missing two with a sprained left ankle, but the Cavaliers lost to the Orlando 
Magic  105-102  on  Tuesday  
night.  
Orlando  was  led  by Steve  

Francis' 30 points and season high-tying 13 assists. 
Cleveland coach Paul Silas expected that James would play. but it wasn't until game tinw that the Cavaliers star made the d1H:ision official. 
''I'm not going to play if I'm still thinking about (the ankle( 
~reat Food! 
~1 Sports ~ar in South ~end 204-6 South ~end Ave -Across froi\1 Martins Plaza 272-1766 

TUES: COLLEO.E NtO.Hf-17J &-SPECIALS (SfA~fiNO. Af ~1.00) Wed: live T~IVIA Night -~rit1g your teatfts -Prizes THu~s: 17J -Pet1t1V Night -1~ Specials startit1g at 
9:00PM 
Must be 21 with avalid 1.0. 
and favoring it," said James, 10-of-20 from the field. "I feel great." 
After a quiet first half, James scored 17 points and his short jumper with 44 seconds left tied itat102. 
"I'm really glad to have him back," Silas said. "He makes the game easy for us." 
But James' comeback wasn't without flaws. lie opened the game with an airball, missed his three 3-point tries and was 8-for-13 from the line -four misses coming in the fourth quarter. 
"We gave ourselves every chance in the world to win, but we just couldn't get over the hump," James said. 
Still. Cleveland appeared to 
~reat Fun! 

• Experience a premier 
Summer Session Dates 
national university ranked a "best value" by U.S. News &
Early Session 
World Report.
May 23 -June 17 • Get your degree faster! 
Summer Session EJ 
• Take courses at the LakeMay 23 -July 1 
Shore and WaterTower Campuses near Chicago 
Summer Session I!J 
summer fun. 
July 5 -August 12 
Or, study abroad/ 
Summer Session ~~ Registration starts In February.June 6-July 29 
1.800.262.2373 summer-sessions@Iuc.edu 
Apply online today! www.luc.edu/summerOS 
Preparing People to Lead Extraordinary Lives 
LOYOLA ~I' ~ UNIVERSITY
' . · ~CHICAGO 
~ 8 
0~~At.{)~\'" 
Loyola University Chicago is an equal opportunity educator and employer. (02005 Loyola University of Chicago. 
""I do not nm like a tnan who loses sight of the finish line. I do not fight as if I were shadowboxing." ( 1 Cor 9:26) 
ANSWER~ 
THECALLV:J>/ 

NFL 
Crennel stays quiet about Cleveland job 
Wednesday, February 2, 2005 

page 18 The Observer+ SPORTS 
TENNIS 

Hingis loses first conteback ntatch 

Patriots' defensive coordinator says he's not yet a Brown 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -Just about everyone at the Super Bowl acknowledges that Borneo Crennel will be the Cleveland Browns' next head coach. Everyone except Crennel. 
The New England defensive coordinator spoke about the Browns job at media day Tuesday. never admitting he's beaded to Cleveland after Sunday's game wit.h the Philadelphia Eagles. 
"I don't have the job; I am employed with the New England Patriots," he said. "The rules in the NFL say that is tampering; no one can talk to me as long as I work for the Patriots. And I work for the Patriots. 
"After this game, if Cleveland decides to offer me a job, then I'll talk about that job." 
The Browns reportedly are ready to do just that. They were allowed to interview him in early January when the Patriots had a bye before their first playoff game. 
Crennel, 57, spent one year with the Browns as Chris Palmer's defensive coordina­tor in 2000, when the defense had 42 sacks, improving by 17 over 1999. Then he was inter­viewed for the head coaching job after Palmer was fired. But Crennel believes that was a courtesy because Cleveland already had decided to hire Butch Davis. 
Davis quit with five games remaining this season. Crennel emerged as the top candidate to replace him after the interviewing process. Also interviewed were Eagles offensive coordinator Brad Childress; Browns interim coach and offensive coordina­tor Terry Robiskie; and Steelers offensive line coach Buss Grimm. 
Patriots coach Bill Belichick. who already is losing offensive coordinator Charlie Weis to Notre Dame, won't confirm he also will be without Crennel after the Super Bowl. 
But Crennel's players expect him to leave. 
"We're going to miss Borneo a lot," defensive tackle Keith Traylor said. "That's going to be a big void to fill. We have to rally around our teammates and the next guy." 
When Crennel officially becomes. the next guy in Cleveland, he'll start thinking about the Browns. For now, it's Eagles, Eagles, Eagles. 
"My mind is concentrated on the game at hand, because if you don't concentrate on the game at hand, then you are going to end up losing," he said. "It is encouraging that there is a job still open, so that means you still have a chance. 
"That's all that you tell your players: You just do the best that you can and see what happens. So, I do the best that I can and if it happens, that will be great. If it doesn't hap­pen, I will go on." 

-
Open. said. "My life has "It's hardfor me After I-lingis went Playing in a tournament for been very good physically. I'm not ahead 2-1, the the first time since taking a two­over the past cou­German used a
18 years old 
year break after severely injur­ple of years and I series of powerful ing her ankle, Hingis won the feel comfortable anymore. shots to take first set easily but looked far with it." charge in the next slower than she did when she Hingis thought five games.
Martina Hlngis 
was the No. 1 ranked player in she played well but The difference
tennis player 
Associated Press 

PATTAYA, Thailand -Martina Hingis' return to tennis Tuesday was spoiled when she was beat­en by Germany's Marlene Weingartner 1-6, 6-2. 6-2 in the first round of the Volvo Women's nent to win the set in 24 min­utes. 
Weingartner attacked a weak serve from I lingis to bmak the opening game of the second set but could not hold her next game. 
Hingis told reporters the match had been "a nice experi­ence," but that she had no set plans for an extended comeback or to play other tournaments. 
"I might play exhibitions," she in energy levels 
between the two players became obvious in the final set, when I lingis could not chase down balls and Weingartner hit winners. 
Weingartner quickly strode to a 5-2 lead and set up a match point with a forehand down the line. The German celebrated her 1-hour, 19-minute win after Hingis netted a forehand. 
It was Weingartner's first vic­tory against Hingis, who easily beat her twice in 1999 and 2002. 
the world. The five-time Grand Slam champion last competed in a WTA tournament in October 2002 at Filderstadt, Germany, where she lost to Elena Dementieva. 
said the two-year layoff had taken a toll. 
"The foot is still all right now," Hingis said. "But we will see tomorrow. I'm 25 now. It's bard for me physically. I'm not 18 years old anymore." 
In the first set, the Swiss star moved swiftly all over the court and used well-placed ground­strokes to break Weingartner twice for a 3-0 lead. After double faulting to drop a game, Hingis rallied against her erratic oppo-

PGA TOUR 
Els doubts Woods can regain old dom_inance 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia ­Ernie Els thinks golf technology and a more competitive PGA Tour means Tiger Woods won't be as dominant as he once was. 
"Everybody has become bet­ter players, technology has brought everybody closer together," Els said Tuesday at the Heineken Classic, where he begins play Thursday trying for his fourth win in a row at Boyal Melbourne. 
"I think he's had a very good start obviously, but I can't see him being that dominant again," Els said. "The guys out there are a lot more confident, they've. stepped up to their games. No one is hitting it 30 or 40 yards past everybody else." 
Woods won the Dunlop Phoenix tournament in Japan last November, then shot four rounds in the 60s to win his Target World Challenge against a 16-man field to finish the year. 
Ten days ago, Woods rallied from a two-shot deficit over the final six holes to win the Buick Invitational for his first PGA Tour victory in 11 months. 
Vijay Singh took over the top ranking from Woods last September. Woods had been No. 1 for five years, but has gone 10 majors without win­ning, matching his longest win­less streak in Grand Slam events. 
"Technology has changed the game," Els said. "Twelve to 15 Y.ears ago, before titanium driv­ers and new golf balls, it was a different game. 
"At the moment, he is playing better, and more confident. But other guys will be right there. I don't think he'll be that domi­nant again. although I might be wrong." 
--------------------~----~---------~ ~-----­
Wednesday, February 2, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 19 
NFL 
O-wens announces he -will play in Super Bo-wl XXXIX 
"God brought me here for a

Just six weeks after 
reason," he said. But those were only momen­

surgery, wide receiver 
tary interludes. For the most 

announces his return part, Owens was at his bombas­tic best, saying he has no inten­tion of being a decoy and 
Associated Press 
embracing the controversy that seems to follow him around like 

.11\CKSONVILLI\. Fla. a cornerback in a man-to-man T1~rrell Ow1~ns strolled onto the defense. From Sharpies in the l'ield, claiming a podium ncar socks to towel-clad actresses in the 25-yard linn. It would have the locker room, it's all good in been more appropriate to put T.O.'s world. him right in the middle of the "I can't change who I am," he lield. said. "I am who I am." 
T.O. was clearly in his comfort The New England Patriots, zone Tuesday at the Super with victories in two of the last Bowl's media extravaganza -three Super Bowls and on the the center of attention, the star cusp of becoming a full-fledged ol' the show, the guy making all dynasty. had to settle for a sup­tlw news. porting role on this day. 
i\nd say this about the Owens was the star. PhiladelpHia Eagles' i\.11-Pro "It shows what kind of guy he receiver: lin didn't leave anyone is," said Troy Brown, the in suspense. Less than a minute Patriots' receiver and nickel after the tape recorders and back. "lie came to Philly cameras began rolling, Owens because he wanted to play in made his pronouncement. this game. To see him out there 
"I will play on Sunday," he running around, well, I've got to said. relishing the moment as take my hat off to the guy." Owens claims that his ankle threatening damage by coming a half-hour of Wednesday's he gazed out at some 100 mem­Owens was in the midst of his feels like nothing more than a back too soon -even though practice to work with Owens on bers ol' the media hanging on most satisfying season when he normal sprain, the kind that the doctor who performed the stability and balance, followed his every word. was dragged down from behind players deal with every week in surgery refused to give his by a short run. It's a delicate 
Then. transforming the podi­in a Dec. 19 game against such a brutal sport. blessing for Owens to play in balancing act -working the um into a pulpit, Owens put on Dallas. his leg twisting "Obviously, it's a good story the Super Bowl. player hard enough to sec if he an hourlong performance that grotesquely in the wrong direc­for the Super Bowl: Will he play ''I'm not really concerned can play, but not hard enough was part i\li, part Heverend Ike tion. or won't he?" Owens said. about the medical risks," the to hinder a recovery process -and pure T.O. The grim diagnosis: a severely "Well, I'm here, I going to play receiver said. "Even if' I go out that still has a few precious 
"If you beli11ve in miracles," sprained ankle, two torn liga­and that's it." and ni-injure myself, it can be days to run. lw said, "just wait until ments, a fractured fibula. Later Tuesday, he took part in fixed." "He's like Smarty Jones," Sunday." During surgery. two screws and his second straight practice, Owens said he won't even Burkholder said. "''m riding 
Adorned with diamonds in a metal plate were needed to spending much of the time run­wear a brace. Just a light tape him through the week, and each car and a matching put it all back together. Owens' ning in place. He got on the job should be enough to hold we're going to get him to the bracelet. Owens let the conver­hopes of playing in the Super field for six of the Eagles' 20 the ankle together. gate on Sunday and hopefully sation flow in all sorts of direc­Bowl -the very reason he offensive plays, catching one of "There are risks every day," turn him loose. But you have to tions. i\t times, he sounded signed with Philadelphia after the two passes that were he said. "It was a risk coming ride him right. You can't run downright humble while credit­eight years in San Francisco -thrown his way. over here today on the bus. It him into the ground Wednesday, ing a strong religious faith for appeared to have been Both Owens and the Eagles' was a risk flying to Jacksonville Thursday and Friday, because hastening tho recovery of his snatched away. trainer, Hick Burkholder, pooh­for this game." he won't b(~ worth anything right knee and ankle. Now, just over six weeks later, poohed the risk of doing career-Burkholder plans to use about Sunday." 

NFL 
Super Bowl security will be tight 
St. Johns River complicates efforts for Jacksonville authorities 
Asoociated Press 
.Ji\CKSONVILI.E. Fla. -i\ river runs through it -and that's a security problem for this city's first Super Bowl. 
From j1~t skis to cruise ships, watercraft regularly ply the St. .lohns Hiver, a fednral waterway that runs right alongside i\lltnl Stadium. 
All boaLo; must be checked and rechecked. Ships carrying visi­tors by the thousands arc moni­tored around the Glock. i\nd Coast Guard divers have to snarch the river on a regular hasis. 
NFI. vice president for security Milt i\hlerich called the river "a unique aspect of this Super Bowl." but he also downplaycd the impact it had on the security plan Tuesday. 
"We are very pleased with what we have seen here," i\hlerich said. "We have com­plete confidence our fans, our teams, our employees will be safe -not just at the game but at the many other events." 
Although i\hlerich and Jacksonville Sheriff John Hutherford said the three­pronged approach to Super Bowl security -via land. air and sea -was the first of its kind. they also said it was merely an addi­tional part of a detailed security plan. 
.let skis are being banned on the river, largely because of the cruise ships. Only certain private boats, whose owners won per­mits in a lottery, are allowed on thn river. i\nd Coast Guard divers are regularly inspecting the bottom of the ships, plus keeping other boats a safe dis­tance away. 
i\lso, more than 50 agencies ­some federal, some state and some local -combined to devel­op, install and carry out the security plan. 
"It's like at the Pro Bowl, where you have everybody wearing different helmets but playing on the same team," Hutherford said. "We have guys wearing 53 different badges all pulling together for the same cause." 
Aside from the river aspect, security for the Super Bowl will be rather routine for sports' biggest event -officials have refined the process every year since the terrorist attacks of 2001. 
"We get better each time," i\hlerich said. Security also has become increasingly seamless. i\hlerich 

believes Sunday's game in the river town will continue the trend. 
"We've had chances to improve every year. and we have," i\hlerich said. 
But i\hlerich said the enhance­ments don't imply a lessened focus on security, even though the NFL and police declined to give specifics about anything more than the checkpoints rans must walk through before the game. 
i\hlcrich advised fans to arrive early, travel light and be patient. 
They will be searched and scanned with X-ray machines before being allowed into the stadium -methods unheard of years ago. but common at big events since the 2002 Super Bowl. 
Rutherford said one improve­ment from last year's Super Bowl in Houston is that nearly 30 more metal-detecting wands will be used to help decrease waiting lines. 
The usual items like cam­corders, strollers, noisemakers and umbrellas are banned. Hutherford also strongly encour­aged fans to leave electronic devices, including cell phones, at home to expedite the scanning process. 

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2005 
SWISS VALLEY 
BUS LEAVES LIBRARY CIRCLE AT 5:00 P.M. 
Cost: $40.00 Uft ticket, snowboard & transport $35.00 Lift ticket. ski rental & transport $25.00 Lift ticket & transport only 
RETURN BUS LEAVES SWISS VALLEY AT 10:00 P.M. 
BEGINNER LESSONS AVAILABLE FREE OF CHARGE 
REGISTER AND PAY IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS BEGINNING JANUARY 31,2005 
DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 3, 2005@ 5:00P.M. 

INCOME TAX PREPARATION 
Daniel F. Osberger, CPA & MBA Call to Meet at Your Campus Office or Home W: 246-1165 C: 514-7453 OASIS FINANCIAL SERVICES Osberger Accounting Solutions & Investment Services 
203 S. Ironwood Drive South Bend, IN 46556 E-mail: Dan.Osberger@Comcast.Net 
·­
~-------------------~ ---­
OUND THE NATION 
page 20 CoMPILED FROM T11E OHsERVUts wmr SERVICEs Wednesday, February 2, 2005 

NBA 
EASTERN CONFERENCE 
Atlantic Division 
team record perc. GB Philadelphia 21-23 .477 
Boston 21-24 .467 .5 New Jersey 19·26 .422 2.5 New York 18·26 .409 3.0 Toronto 18·27 .400 3.5 
Central Division 
team record perc. GB 
Detroit 27·18 .600 Cleveland 26·18 .591 .5 Chicago 22·21 .512 4.0 
Indiana 20·23 .465 6.0 
Milwaukee 15·27 .357 10.5 
Southeast Division 
team record perc. GB 
Miami 33·13 .717 Washington 26·18 .591 6.0 
Orlando 25·20 .556 7.5 Charlotte 9·33 .214 22.0 Atlanta 9·34 .209 22.5 
WESTERN CONFERENCE 
Northwest Division 
team record perc. GB Seattle 30·13 .698 
Minnesota 24·20 .545 6.5 Denver 19·25 .432 11.5 Portland 17·25 .405 12.5 
Utah 16·30 .348 15.5 
Pacific Division 
team record perc. GB Phoenix 36-10 .783 Sacramento 30-13 .698 4.5 LA.lakers 23·19 .548 11.0 LA. 22·23 .489 13.5· Clippers 12·32 .273 23.0 
Southwest Division 
team record perc. GB San Antonio 37-10 .787 Dallas 28·14 .667 6.5 Memphis 26·20 .565 10.5 Houston 25·21 .543 11.0 New Orleans 8·36 .182 27.5 
L 10 
6-4 5·5 1-3 1-9 5·5 
L 10 
6-4 5·5 7·3 3·7 3·7 
L 10 
6·4 5·5 6-4 1-9 3·7 
L 10 
5·5 7·3 5·5 3·7 4·6 
L 10 

8·2 6·4 8·2 6·4 4·6 
Men's College Basketball Big East Ct>ttf•rence 
.:: -~~~~~-:·.:::: ·':':'·':.:: . . : 

team Boston College  liti/East .•· 8·0  19·0..  
Syracuse  'M  20~2  .  
Pittsburgh  5·2  15·3  
NOTRE DAME  5·3  13·5  
Georgetown  5·3  13·6  
Villanova  4·3  12~4  
Connecticut  4·3  12-5  
Seton Hall  >2·4  10~7  
West Virginia  2·6  1N  
Rutgers  1-6  7-10  
St. John's  1-6  7-10  
Providence  0·7  9·11  

around the dial 
MEN's NCAA BASKETBALL Cincinnati at Louisville, 7 p.m., ESPN Duke atWake Forest, 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA Sacramento at Golden State, 1 0:30 p.m., Comcast 
NBA 


Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Rudy Tomjan­ovich is considering resigning as Los Angeles Lakers coach because of health reasons, a team spokesman said Tuesday. 
ESPN.com reported that Tomjanovich would step down follow­ing Tuesday night's game against Portland. Spokesman John Black said that would not be the case. 
"He's considering several options and resigning is one of them. That decision has not been made," Black said. "There won't be an announce­ment tonight. He won't coach tonight because he's not feeling well. This has nothing to do with cancer." 
The 56-year-old Tomjanovich, who won a pair of NBA championships 
IN BRIEF 
Dominican Reyublic team 
gets bumped of flight 
MAZATLAN, Mexico -The Dominican Republic· and shortstop Miguel Tejada missed their Caribbean Series opener against Puerto Rico on Tuesday because the team was kicked off its flight the pre­vious night. 
The Cubao Eagles of the Dominican Republic had been scheduled to arrive in Mexico on Monday night but were asked to get off the plane before the flight took off from Santo Domingo because it was overbooked, International Airport of the Americas spokesman Ellis Perez said. 
The flight had 172 seats but was overbooked by 60 seats, Perez said. When players and other passengers started arguing with crew members about who should get to fly, the pilot asked everyone to get off and flew the plane to Miami empty. 
"A difficult situation presented itself in which players and other pas­sengers were arguing with each with the Houston Rockets, missed the Lakers' win over Charlotte on Sunday night because of what the team said was a stomach virus. He returned to the coaching ranks this season after recovering from bladder cancer. 
Assistant coach Frank Hamblen, the only holdover from former coach Phil Jackson's staff, guided the team against the Bobcats and will coach them against the Trail Blazers. 
Black said Tomjanovich has had a sinus infection as well as the stomach virus. 
"It's health-related," Black said about Tomjanovich's absence·. "He loves the team and the team loves him." 
Tomjanovich did not return a phone message from The Associated Press. 
After cutting ties with Jackson and 
other and the crew," Perez said. 
The team made new travel plans and was not scheduled to arrive until Tuesday night, hours after the sched­uled first pitch. Three Red Wing playersjoin United Hockey League 
FRASER, Mich. -Red Wings defensemen Chris Chelios and Derian Hatcher and forward Kris Draper signed with the Motor City Mechanics of the United Hockey League on Tuesday for the remainder of the season. 
''I'm excited and nervous and look­ing forward to playing," Chelios said. 
The addition of three NHL players should provide a boost for the strug­gling Mechanics (11-29-6), who are averaging just 1,500 in attendance per game in a building that holds 3,200. 
"It's just a chance for the team to do something," Chelios said. More than 300 NHL players are on teams in European leagues while the 
trading Shaquille O'Neal during the offseason, the Lakers have been a mediocre team this season. They were 23-19 going into Tuesday's game against the Trail Blazers. 
Black said he had no idea when Tomjanovich will be back on the bench -if indeed he stays on the job. 
Tomjanovich signed a five-year, $30 million contract last summer. 
"He has discussed this with the appropriate people in the organiza­tion," Black said. "When he does make a decision, it will be announced at the appropriate time." 
Tomjanovich succeeded Jackson when the Lakers did not renew his contract. Jackson led the Lakers to three consecutive NBA champi­onships. 
lockout that threatens the entire North American season drags on. The stalemate reached its 139th day on Tuesday and already has forced the cancellation of 756 of the 1,230 regular-season games plus this year's All-Star fame. Kings Adelman gets one­year contract extension 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. -The Sacramento Kings exercised their one-year option on coach Rick Adelman on Tuesday, keeping him under contract through next season. 
Even though Adelman has taken the Kings to the playoffs every year since coming to Sacramento, owners Joe and Gavin Maloof waited to see how the team started this season before deciding whether to pick up his option for 2005-06. 
A solid start despite several injuries was enough to earn Adelman another year. Sacramento (30-13) went into Tuesday night's game against Seattle in second place. 
.------------------------------------------------------. 
Wednesday, February 2, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Notre D:uue Starting Lineup 

#12 Teresa Borton c 6-3 Senior 8.6 PPG, 6.0 RPG 
F 
#21 Jacqueline Batteast 6-2 Senior 
18.1 PPG, 6.7 RPG 

F 
#34 Crvstal Erwin 6-1 Sophomore 
6.6 PPG, 4.2 RPG 

#32 Breona GrayG 5-7 Sophomore 6.0 PPG, 3.7 RPG 
#13 Megan DuffyG 5-7 Junior 11.8 PPG, 5.6 APG 



Eagles 
continued from page 24 
Meanwhile, a Boston College victory gives the Eagles a boost heading into the toughest stretch of their schedule. Including tonight, Boston College faces Notre Dame and Connecticut twice and Rutgers once in its final nine games of the season. 
It would also be the first time Boston College has ever defeated Notre Dame at the Joyce Center. 
"They are anxious to change that trend. I'd think," McGraw said. 
The Eagles have played impressive basketball 
"[Boston College is] one 
through their counterparts. first 18 ofthose really good The Irish games but must also
teams that's a little bit 

are still look­stop Boston
overlooked and doesn't
ing for a big College's win. While get the respect they lethal outside 
than just all-American Jacqueline Batteast. Batteast, who scored only nine points on 3-of-17 shooting while battling stomach flu symp­toms, struggled throughout the Connecticut game. But Courtney LaVere, Megan Duffy and Charel Allen picked up the slack by scor­ing 14 points, 12 points and 11 points, respectively. 
The win snapped the Huskies 112-game regular season Big East home win­ning streak. 
The Irish used a suffocating 2-3 zone defense and harassed the inexperienced Connecticut guards through­out the contest. But McGraw considers the Eagles' guards, including Deveny. better players than their Huskies 

Boston College Starting Lineup 
F 
#11 Kathrin Ress 6-4 Sophomore 
12.0 PPG, 4.8 RPG 
F 
#2 Brooke Queenan 6-2 Junior 
11.7 PPG, 5.3 RPG 
G/F 
#15 Clare Droesch 5-11 Senior 
9.1 PPG, 5.9 RPG 
#00 Jessalyn Deveny G 5-9 Senior 18.1 PPG, 5.5 RPG 
#3 Sarah Marshall G 5-7 Sophomore 4.7 PPG, 5.2 APG 

Boston College  6-1  ·:~;'  
\ut:"ers  6-I  
Connecticut  6-I  {  \  
Villanova  4-3  
Seton Hall  4-5  i-r~·  
.  .~·  
West Vir inia  3-5  
Pittsburgh  3-5  ,f:\  
S racuse  3-5  Ui·  
Geor etown  2-6  c]  
Providence  0-7  m  


they've beat­deserve." shooting. The en several Eagles shoot good teams, better than 
Muffet McGraw 50 percent
they haven't grabbed a 

Irish coach from beyond win over any 
the arc in Big top-25 teams. But Boston 
East play. College doesn't have any bad "They have really good losses either, with its defeats 
guards," McGraw said. coming to Michigan State, 
"They're smart. They have a Stanford and Rutgers. 
great assist-to-turnover ratio. Deveny's really good,
"They're one of those really and we've got to contain thegood teams that's a little bit three-point line. We didn't do
overlooked and doesn't get 
a good job with that against
the respect they deserve," 
Connecticut so we've got toMcGraw said. "They're just a do a good job [against Boston
really solid team and they 
College]."

don't beat themselves." 
The Irish should be well­
Three Eagles average dou­rested for the game. McGrawble figures in scoring, with a 
gave thn team the day off
fourth -Clare Droesch -at Monday, which helped play­9.1 points per game. Jessica 
ers recuperate after the
Deveny paces the team by 
Connecticut trip. Batteast,
averaging more than 18 
who practiced Tuesday, usedpoints, five rebounds and two 
the time to shake off the
assists, while Kathrin Hess stomach flu and will start
tallies 12 points and Brooke Wednesday.
Queenan adds 11.7 points per game. Notre Dame showed Contact Joe Hettler at Sunday that the team is more jhettler@nd.edu 
Women's Polls as of Jan. 31, 2005 
I. LSU  I. LSU  
2. Stanford  2. Ohio State  
3. Ohio State  3. Duke  
4. Duke  4. Stanford  
5. North Carolina  5. Tennessee  
6. Tennessee  6. NOTRE DAME  
7. NOTRE DAME  7. Rutgers  
8. Baylor  8. Baylor  
9. Rutgers - 9. North Carolina  
I0. Connecticut 0  I0. Michigan State  
I I. Michigan State Poe >[/) '"t:lIt-~~;;J?~~ll~ge -5 d'  I I. Connecticut :;: +:::Tech  
14: i'exasTec:h--'--· ~ =:  14. Minnesota  
15. Texas U  15. Kansas State  
16. Kansas State  16. Boston College  
17. Iowa State  17. DePaul  
18. DePaul  18. Georgia  
19. Florida State  19. Iowa State  
20. Georgia  20. Maryland  
21. Vanderbilt  21. Vanderbilt  
22. Maryland  22. Temple  
23. Penn State  23. Penn State  
24. Purdue  24. Florida State  
25. Temple  25. N.C. State  

PosT PERIMETER ­
COACHING STYLE OF PLAY BENCH INTANGIBLESPLAYERS PLAYERS 
UJ 
:E 
<t 
c 
UJ 
a: 
.... 
0 
z 
LLJ LLJ 
"..... 
..... 
0 
CJ 
z 
0 
..... 
(/) 
0 
m 

McGraw recently picked up her 400th win in her 18th year at Notre Dame. She also has won a nation­al championship. The Irish coach is experi­enced and successful. McGraw has a staff that is proven and dedicated.  This team wins with its defense. When the Irish play good defense, they win. When they don't, they struggle. This year's team has more offen­sive weapons, but the mainstay is still defense.  Erwin has stepped up in her sophomore sea­son and LaVere and Borton are also playing well. LaVere is back from December knee surgery and is finally at full strength. They have struggled to rebound at times, but have been solid overall.  The All-American Batteast is a star, and Duffy is the Big East's most fundamentally sound point guard. Batteast can be unstop­pable at times, and Duffy is dependable with the ball most of the time. Gray gives the Irish a defensive spark.  Notre Dame is deep­er than ever. Gaines and Allen are two freshmen that con­tribute. Allen has been outstanding. and she plays even better against top teams. LaVere. if she comes off the bench. is a huge plus for the Irish.  The Irish just beat Connecticut in Storrs, breaking the Huskies' 112-game regular sea­son home Big East winning streak. Their momentum is high, and with a win. they could move up to sec­ond in the conference standings.  
Inglese is in her 12th season with the Eagles and has a career record of 213­132 at Boston College. She has coached the Eagles to back-to-back Sweet 16 appearances in 2003 and 2004.  The Eagles have flown under the radar in the Big East all season long. However, they are a good 3­point shooting team, hitting 45.8 percent from the arc and 52.6 percent in Big East play.  Hess killed the Irish last year with 14 points on 5-for-5 shooting, and has only gotten better since her fresh­man year. Queenan has stepped up in a starting role and is averaging in double ligures as well. The Eagles rebound well as a team.  This is the strength of Boston College. Deveny, a 3-point sharpshooter, is the heart and soul of the Eagles. The senior is the leader of this team. She is joined in the backcourt by Droesch, who shoots just as well from beyond the arc.  The Eagles have eight players averaging double-digit minutes per contest. Parham is a big contributor off the bench, as she pro­vides athleticism and scoring. Marshall gives the Eagles solid min­utes and is the team's leading rebounder.  Boston College was hot all preseason . They went on an 11­game winning streak before starting Big East conference play. There, the Eagles lost to Hutgers, their first and only Big East loss.  
McGraw do1~sn't just have the experience, she has the successes, as well. She is a proven coach in the Big East as well in the NCAA. Inglese has done a lot at Boston College, but McGraw gets the edge.  Notre Dame has struggled to defend the 3-point line at times this season, givi­gn up seven to St. John's and nino to Connecticut despite a matchup zone. Boston Colloge gets the edge in this one.  Notre Dame has size and depth. The 6-foot-4 Hess will be a challenge without a doubt, but Borton, LaVere and Erwin should be up to the challenge. The Irish havent' rebounded well of late, but LaVere has played extremely well.  Boston College's guards are tough, but Notre Dame's are equally so. It's a slight edge, but it goes to the Irish because Deveny has been hurt lately, and because of the All­American play of Batteast.  If LaVere comes off the bench. Notre Dame gets the nod easily. If not. it's a slight edge, mainly because of Allen. who has been outstanding. The Eagles are deep, but the Irish arfl deep and talented.  Notre Dame is on a high ;tiler Sunday's win at Connecticut. They have had just two days since then, so a !Ptdown doesn't seem likely. Boston College has never won at the Joyce Center, and the Irish love playing at horne.  

... 
Wednesday, February 2, 2005

page 22 The Observer + SPORTS 
accolade it received in their own game that sealed our qualify­positive experiences with the 
we played -which is the Irish soccer program led to standout year. 
SuccessDalby 
But that takes nothing away continued from page 24 remember the most," he said. ''I've been successful on this 
ing-is definitely the thing I national team. 
continued from page 24 from the impressive accomplish­
As a coach, Clark considers team and I hope I've con­
ments of this team. Notre Dame championship tournament. Dalby a top-notch player. tributed to my teams experi­
ors for standout keeper Chris soccer is here, and no end-of­"It's just great experience for "The big thing that Greg ence in qualifying," he said. "I 
Sawyer and Hermann Trophy the-season letdown is going to him," Notre Dame coach Bobby brings is that he's a very came a more mature player 
semifinals awards for Jack get in its way. Clark said. "Playing in the dependable in everything he coming into this than I ever 
Stewart and Kevin Goldthwaite. Earlier this year, Stewart said international stage with and does," said Clark. "That's both was on the Under-18 team." 
The three players were chosen that he and his fellow captains against some of the top players on and off the field -he's the Clark attributes that not just 
in the first two rounds of this wanted to put Notre Dame soc­in the world -that's just a sort of lad that anything he to Notre Dame's influence on 
year's MLS draft. cer "on the map." Today is sign­great learning experience." does, he gives it 100 percent." Dalby's soccer but the greater 
This didn't surprise Clark, ing day for the program. and Dalby agreed. But it isn't just Dalby's dedi­lifestyle of being a student-ath­
however. replacing Stewart and his class­"It was a really good oppor­cation that sets him apart. lete. 
"I think if we're going to be a mates will be crucial to future tunity for me, being exposed to "He's got a great ability to "That's part of being an ath­
top program, if we're going to successes for Clark and the play­it," he said. "It was good for make the game look easy," lete at this school," he said. "I 
continue to be a top program, ers who cycle through his sys­me to get experience doing Clark said. "I always say that's think the team should be com­
we should have players that will tem. that." the true trademark of any peting and playing at the high­
be getting drafted and will be llowever. any player who is Dalby also captained the great player, that they make est level and we should also be 
getting involved in the national watching where Clark's players national Under-18 squad their job easy. Good players attending to our academics, 
team," Clark said. "Hopefully go -notably the international before coming to play for the aren't turning and twisting and [and] Greg is a great example 
that's going to be an ongoing stage and the professional arena Irish. This winter, his team­dribbling ... he seems to find of a great student athlete who's 
companion to our program. that -knows that this is a place mates included professional easy avenues. He connects very organized-the ideal stu­
we're going to have people where he can find success. players like Freddy Adu and with his teammates. He just dent-athlete." 
involved in the MLS and on the other collegiate players. They makes the game look easy." Next fall, the Irish will return 
national teams." The opinions expressed in this lived together for a month, Clark knows that the experi­a number of top players, but 
This team fell short of every column are those ofthe author training with two-a-day prac­ence with international play they also will lose three of the 
NCAA team's ultimate goal-a and not necessarily those ofThe tices and then competing as a will be important for Dalby's nation's top defenders to Major 
national title. They were eclipsed Observer. team. development as a player, who League Soccer (MLS). With 
by the success of a wc•men's pro­Contact Kate Gales at "A lot of the pro guys and was named a second-team all­only Ryan Miller returning to 
gram, which deserved every kgales@nd. edu [college players] had played Big East selection after the anchor the defense, much of together at other times so it 2004 season. the burden of maintaining the wasn't too unfamiliar," Dalby "You can't give someone that traditionally stingy Irish cent and is second in the MIAAsaid. "Everyone had to get to experience without being defense will fall to Dalby. 
in scoring, averaging 17.2
know each other better on the involved in it, and he's very, However, after competing at 
Belles 
points per game. Winkle leadsfield and off the field to make very fortunate to be involved in the international level, the the conference in rebounds, as
continued from page 24
things work." it," Clark said. sophomore is ready for any­well.
The Poway, Calif. native Dalby credited the coaching thing in the future, from a The Belles will also have tosome confidence."
played all 90 minutes in the staff at Notre Dame with his national title run with the Irish 
keep a close eye on Knight
The Belles know they cannotfirst two matches and came off development between playing to a try at playing professional­guard Kristen McDonald. who isrely solely on a poor perform­the bench in the third as a with the national Under-18 and ly. 
third in the MIAA in scoring. 

ance by Calvin to be successful,defensive central midfielder. Under-20 teams. "It was really good, getting Bellina believes that the bestthough. Saint Mary's must shutIn addition to the experience "Before I came to Notre the opportunity to get exposed 
way to counter the double­
down 6-foot sophomore Lisa
gained against th·e world's top Dame, I was a central defend­to [international play] and thre.at the Knights pose is toWinkle to keep Calvin's scoringcompetitors, playing for the er," he said. "For the last year challenge myself-to see "stay fresh" for running up and
low.
national team was a time to and a half I've been playing where I stand at that level," he down the court with Calvin.
Winkle is a double-threat for grown to love. a lot from the coaches how to 
enjoy the sport Dalby has defensive midfield and learning said. 
the Knights. She enters the 
"As far as the whole tourna­play that position." Contact Kate Gales at 
game leading the league in Contact Ken Fowler at ment went, the second game Dalby said his time with the kgales@nd.edu 
field-goal percentage at 63 per-kfowler1@nd.edu 
Student International Business Council It's Not Too Late!!! Interested injorning the SIBC but were unable to attend the first meeting? It's not too late to join! ALL MAJORS ARE WELCOME! *Hands on real life experience *Establish contacts with alumni *Gain valuable leadership skills *Summer internships and teaching positions around the globe Contact A Division Leader For More Information Accowding-Brett Brennfleck Marketing-Kevin Rauseo• • bbrennfl@nd.edu krauseo@nd.edu Business Consulting-Brendan Barrett Finance-'-Rich Walsh• • bbarret2@nd.edu twalsh2@,nd. edu Global Development-Patrick Riveron Hwnan Resources-Rachel Schiros• • priveron@nd.edu rschiros@nd. edu Internships-Matthew Somma and Ana Bermudez Information Technology-Mike de Ia Garza• • msomma@nd.edu and abermude@nd.edu mdelagar@nd. edu  •  


Wednesday, February 2, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 19 

DILBERT  SCOTT ADAMS  
THIS AWARD GOES TO ASOK FOR HIS HARD WORK ON ... WHATEVER.  MY DEDICATION HAS BEEN REWARDED! THIS IS THE HAPPIEST MOMENT OF MY LIFE!  WOW! IT'S LUCKY THAT I GOT A NEW CHAIR ON THE SAME DAY THAT MINE LJAS STOLEN.  

CHARLES SCHULZ
PEANUTS 
JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LIPUP 

rJ t J
1 ±
C2005 Tnbune Med1a Services, Inc All Rights Reserved 
YUNTI 

J r t J
1 
www.jumble.com
tSHEERY t 

I J I J I 
Answer: [ 

I I I I J·r I I I I J" 
(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles:. CHAIR TULLE FLURRY PURITYYesterday's 
Answer: What the surgeon turned into at the annual roast -A REAL CUT UP 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 

Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Response to a 66 Relocate Nebraskan's
Dark cloud 67 Mandela's
gag? 
native tongue 5 Twelve Oaks 

38 On the horizon, 
68 "Now, about ... " neighbor 
maybe 69 Tram loads 

9 1994 Nobel 41 Really steamed Peace Prize 
42 Japanese play-
sharer 

thing? DOWN 14 Pope from 440 
44 Hawaii's state 1 Home 
to 461 bird 

2 Eagle's home 15 Drew on 45 What 1 D's rep­
3 Like some goodresent

16 Get past soil 46 Loaf parts 
17 Composer 4 Dance at a bar? Khachaturian 49 Rock's Nugent 
5 Holiday roast 50 One-third of a18 Not opt. 

6 Playing_

hat trick 19 It'll keep you up (court activity) 
52 Key with four 
7 Mass for the 20 Mali sharps deaddancewear? 

57 Hawaiian 8 Beef up

23 Pal of Roo doozy? 59 Raise the roof 
9 Airport conven­24 lily bit ience

62 Novelist Jaffe 

25 Boss's Day mo. 
10 Baseball family 63 Seed coat 

28 East _,Conn. name 
64 Third of nine 
11 Popular brew, 30 Represent 65 Jenna or 

for short 32 Biblical verb Barbara Bush 
12 Swearing-in words

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE -=-r-:-r.=-r=,-, 13 Perce 
-:+=+:,-t-::-1 21 www address 
-=+±±:-I 22 Orem native 
-=+-:-+=+~l!lt-:+7+=+-:-~=+::+.-7-1 25 Grown-up 26 Comic Myron 
27 Disgruntled player's demand 
-::+:::*:::-! 29 Mr. of mysteries 
31 Comparison word 
32 Jazz eat's com­~-=+~+.='"! mand 
33 "+"pole 
THE OBSERVER 

Published Monday through Friday, The 
Observer is a vital source of information on 
people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint · Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
WILLSHORTZ 

34 Reprimanded 47 Presidential 56 Hoyle's listings gently middle name 57 Primitive 35 "Hey there!" 48 Mustangs' sch. 
homes 

37 Boundless time 51 Trunk artery 
58 Condo, e.g. 39 Hill where Jesus 53 9-Down compa­
59 V-chip target was crucified ny 
40 Green tea type 54 "12 Angry Men" 60 "Oh, sure!'' role
43 Shows age, in a 61 Conquistador's way 55 Antipasto morsel prize 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords tor young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 0 Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 0 Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name ______________________ ­
Address _____________________ City _______________ State _____ Zip______ 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Lola Forsberg. 6: Lisa Mane Presley. 37; Pauly Shore, 37: Princess Stephanie of Monaco. 40 
Happy Uirthday: Don't let your emotions take over or get the better t~f you. especially when dealing with financial matters. You must separate your feelings from what you know you must do. This will be a crucial year when it comes to getting down to business and forging ahead. Letting anyone or anyth1ng slow you down will lead to regrets. It's your life, so don't let anyone else make your decisions for you. Your numbers are 7, 15, 29, 31. 38. 44 
ARIES (March 1-Apri119): You should probably take a little extra time to devote to someone you may have been neglecting lately. The more you can do to help others, the better. Take care of any health concerns. ••• TAURUS (Aprii20-May 20): You wiJJ he inclined to react without enough information. Expect to backtrack in order to turn things around. Take time to help someone who has been experiencing difficulty. •• GEMINI (May 21-June 20): There aren't too many things that you can't do. You are geared up for any challenge or competition and will set new standards by the performat1ce you give. You arc in a good love cycle. •••• CANCER (June 21-July 22): Take your time--as the day progresses you will have much better luck getting what you want. However. don't take on too much just because you are feeling overconfident. Gauge your time ••• LEO (.July 23-Aug. 22): Not everyone will buy into what you arc trymg to sell. You will have to be well-prepared and very sliek if you want to lead the way. Someone is likely to burst your nubble. •• VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Embrace change instead of fighting 11. You have to realize your own potential and go after what you know in your heart you can and want to do. Don't sell yourself short. •••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take the bull by the horns and do whatewr you must to get things done your way. Take action now and don't let anyone mislead you when you know instinctively that you arc right. ••• SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You'll be on edge hut don't let that get to you. You have to rise above what everyone else is telling you and make your own decisions regarding your future. Don't play favorites. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Bcc. 21): You have to be on top of what everyone around you is doing. l11e key to doing well will definitely he organization and practical application. Don'lleave anything to chance.*** CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-.Jan. 19): Make sure that you focus on the person you want to be with the most. Your partnerships should be your focus whether they are business or personal. Attitude will make a difference. •••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): If you really think about the way things have been lately, you will n:alize that some of the problems have been created by you Look within and you will know what changes to make. ••• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't be too quick to react. You have to really look at your options; although things appear to be changing rapidly, it doesn't mean that you have to go with the now. Slow down. ••• 
Birthday Uaby: You are one of a kind. You have a good mind and an acute sense of trends and how to make something work for you. You arc intelligent. sophisticated and extremely creative. 
Check out Eugenia's Web sites at astroadvice.com and cugcnialast.com. 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Wednesday, February 2, 2005 
page 24 
NO WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Crucial conference test 
Irish must beat Eagles to keep Big East regular season title hopes alive 
By JOE HETTLER Sports Writer 
In terms of earning the Big East regular season title, Wednesday's matchup between Notre Dame and Boston College isn't a must-win for the Irish, but it sure would help. 
The No. 6 Irish (18-3, 6-2) host the No. 16 Eagles (15-3, 6-1) at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center in a game that car­ries huge implications for both teams. 
Left, Irish guard Megan Duffy makes an lnbounds pass. Breona Gray looks past a St. John's defender in a Jan. 26 Irish win. 
MEN's SoccER 
The 'other' football team rises to prominence 
Dalby plays in world championships 
By KATE GALES Sports Writer 
Athletes dream of putting on the jersey with the letters "U," "S" and "A" embla­zoned across the front. At that elite level, competition is only a dream for most players. 
But for soccer standout Greg Dalby, that dream became reality as a member of the U.S. Under-20 national squad, who recently qualified for the world championship this summer. 
"It was just a great honor to represent our country in a world competition [andl world qualifying," Dalby said. "I had a lot of fun doing it." 
The United States will compete in the FIFA World Youth Championship this summer after going 3-0 in qualifying competition this winter. The team defeated Trinidad and Tobago, Panama and Costa Rica to clinch a berth in the 
see DALBY/page 22 


"The next game is the most impor­tant game on our schedule," Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. "We can't afford any more losses if we want to win the conference." 
Notre Dame, fresh off a 65-59 vic­tory against Connecticut in Storrs on Sunday, has three teams ahead of it iii the conference standings in the Huskies, Rutgers and Boston College. A victory tonight gives the Irish the edge over the Eagles, at least for now. Notre Dame plays Boston College and Rutgers on the road again this season but does not face Connecticut. The Irish and Huskies split a pair of games already. 
see EAGLES/page 21 
RICK FRIEDMAN!The Observer 

Rudy. Rockne. Reputation. 
It's a simple fact-Notre Dame is a football school. The University has been built on a foundation of faith and foot­ball, and other sports take a backseat to 
the flagship program.  
This isn't necessari- Kate Gales  
ly a bad thing.  
Tradition is another  Sports Writer  
hallmark of Notre  
Dame.  

But there's another sort of football game taking place on crisp fall days ­and this is a program that's finally get­ting the national recognition it deserves as it produces some of the nation's top individual players. 
The men's soccer program spent the fall winning games the blue-collar way -gritty, tough, rolling up their sleeves and getting to work. They ent!~red the NCAA Tournament as the fifth-seeded tnam and posted the nation's lowest goals-against average. 
For the past four years. since Bobby Clark has taken the Irish helm. the soc-
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles face Knights in road test 
By KEN FOWLER Sports Writer 
Coming off a 73-59 loss to Albion one week ago. the Belles (9-10. 4-6 MIAA) look to rebound and return to .500 tonight against Calvin College (14-4, 8-3) in Grand Rapids. Mich. 
Beating the Knights will be a tall order for Saint Mary's, as Calvin averages a plus-1 0 scor­ing margin. 
But the Belles may be facing the Knights at the perfect time. Calvin has stumbled recently. losing two of its last three games to conference opponents. 
On Saturday, the Knights fell to Tri-State. 99-89. Although Saint Mary's has lost its last six contests against Calvin, the Knights' loss to Tri-State is giv­ing the Belles hope. 
"I think you look at this sea­son, and you don't have to look at past seasons," Belles head coach Suzanne Bellina said. "Tri-State beat them the other night. and we beat Tri-State last week. That's really giving I us] 
see BELLES/page 22 

Players' successes reflect on program 
cer team has cut a swath through diffi­cult season schedules. This postseason has proved that fact, as three winter graduates were selected early in the MLS draft and sophomore midfielder Greg Dalby was crucial to the success of the Under-20 U.S. team as they qualified for the FIFA World Championships this sum­mer. 
The caliber of players produced by Clark's system has proved to be among the nation's best. And although Notre Dame will probably never be thought of as a soccer school, the Irish are making themselves known as a formidable foe to every program they fac!L 
"I definitely think that if you were to name oil' tlw top 10 soccer programs, we'd definitely be top 10-maybe even in the top 5," said Dalby. 
Despite a disappointing upset loss to Ohio State early in NCAA's. the Irish fin­ished the season garnering a number of accolades-notably. All-American hon-
see SUCCESS/page 22 

,-------­
(I) TENNIS 
NFL 
NBA 
NFL 
MlB

MLB 
w 

Smith denies he 
Berra sues TBS
T.O. announces 

James returns, 
Sosa's physical is
1m-
(.) Hin~is loses first 
television network 

-z rna ch 
his return 

next step 
will retire

but Cavs fall 
= 
Martina Hingis fell to 
Former New York
Eagles wide receiver 
The Orlando Magic 

Sammy Sosa, pending 
Arizona running back 
= 
Yankee Yogi Berra is
Marlene Weingartner at 
Terrell Owens said he 

physical results, could 
Emmitt Smith denied an
defeated the Cleveland 
c:c 
the Volvo Women's 
will definitely play in 

Cavaliers, 105-102. 
be introduced as an 
ESPN report that he will 
suing TBS over usage of 
his name.
Open. 
Super Bowl XXXIX. 

Oriole today. 
retire this week. 

= a. =: ~ 
page 17
page 19 

page 15 
page 15
page 18 

page 16
(I) 





