
Editor's Note: This is the sec­ond article in a periodic series examining gender relations at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
By KATE ANTONACCI and 
KAREN LANGLEY 
News Writers 
For sophomore Brenna Doyle, the biggnst problem with gender relations at Notre Dame is not romantie relationships. It's friendships. 
"The strain to make mean­ingful friendships with mem­bers of the opposite sex is the unhealthy aspeet of gender relations on eampus," said Doyle, a member of the Senate Gender Issues Committee. "I feel like it's harder to make friends of the opposite sex 
Students could face aggressive crowd in Ann Arbor Saturday 
By JOE PIARULLI News Writer 
Brandishing Notre Dame f'lags, tailgate supplies and determina­tion not to lot a hostile environ­nwnt dampen their spirits, hun­dn~ds of students will make the tri"p to Ann Arbor this weekend as the Irish take on Miehigan. 
The stag1~ is set for the ranked football rivals to duke it out in a rnvnnge match many Notre Damn students want to see in p11rson, though few will have the privilngn. 
TiekPts for this year's game in /\nn Arbor were hard to come by, as thn contest is highly antic­ipatf1d after the Irish eked out a surpris.ing upset at home last 

Rules and relationships 
without people assuming that we are more than friends." 
Doyle is not alone. Students who eehoed her sentiments blamed their li·ustration largely on the University's traditional residential rules, but said tran­sitions from freshman to senior year ean ease the often tense campus climate. 
Single-sex dorms 
While single-sex dorms have always been the rule at Notre Dame, they stand out at a time when most universities have men and women Living tognth­er in the majority of dorms. But some students like being differ­ent. 
"Single-sex dorms add a dif­ferent dimension to gender relations that most schools 
see GENDER/page 4 


Journalist speaks on media duties 
By MADDIE HANNA A~sociare News Ediwr 
Hnnownnd media commenta­tor Knn Auletta onco saw Nnw Yorknr editor William Shawn slwll out $HO,OOO to add night pages to thn magazine and run /\ulntta's pincn in its entirnty. 
"I know that will nnvnr hap­pen again," Auletta told those attPnding Thursday's Hed Smith lecture at Notre Dame's lleshurgh Center. "lie !Shawn) Iwlinvnd that we worked for thn rnadnrs, not the share­holders." 
Auletta's lecture focused on the issue of who journalists work for, a question he believed is increasingly polar­izing the journalistic profes­sion. 
"Perhaps the biggest prob­lnm in journalism is the eult divide between journalists and eorporato owners," said Auletta, who explained the differing philosophies of each camp. 
CI\Os, Auletta said, want journalists to abandon their "elitist" ideas and "give the public morn of what it wants," not just what it needs. 
"In the end, you have to lis­
see AULETTA/ page 6 

Free trade provokes discussion 
Scholars to debate economic integration in Latin Arnerica 
By MARCELA BERRIOS and 
JANICE FLYNN 
News Writers 
With the free trade agree­ments awaiting ratification in Congress and the world watch­ing, Notre Dame has invitnd seholars and polieymaknrs from around the globe to con­vene Friday and Saturday to diseuss the eontroversial issue of trade integration in Latin Amerie<t. 
The eonfenmee, titled "The Sequencing of Hogional Eeonomie Integration: Issues in the Breadth and Depth of Eeonomic Integration in the Amerieas," will be held at tho Mendoza College of Business, sponsored by Mendoza, the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, The Coea-Cola Company and the lnter-Ameriean Development Bank. 
In both lecture and discus­sion formats, tho confereneo will enablo scholars and fH~o­nomic speeialists to examino tho Free Trade Agreement for the Americas (FTAA) and other trade agreements in progross. 
Jeffrey Bergstrand -a pro­fessor of l"inancn at Notrn Dame, Kellogg faculty fellow 
see TRADE/page 3 




The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLUME 40: ISSUE 14 FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2005 NDSMCOBSERVER.COM 



Irish faithful prepare to swarm Big House 
year. Many of the students who rushed the field in Notre Dame Stadium after that game waited in line for a ehanee to buy tiek­ets at the Student Union Board's lottery last Friday, and many of those who didn't snag admission are still making the three-hour road trip for game day. 
"Tiekets are always hard to eome by, especially when Notre Dame is in town," freshman Pat Moore said. "Everybody wants to see them play." 
Moore's family lives near Ann Arbor, so he said he would be "killing two birds with one stone," by visiting home and seeing the Irish "whomp on Miehigan." 
The Big House -already a generally unfriendly environ­ment for Irish fans -will host a massive Miehigan crowd ready to get revengn on Notre Dame, much like two years ago when 
see BIG HOUSE/page 6 page 2 The Observer+ PAGE 2 Friday, September 9, 2005 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Closing the deal 
There he is, perched on the edge of some mystic battlefield fogged over by loud music and black lights, waiting to engage his counterpart in the oldest form ofbattle known to the human race. He is armed only with liquid courage, 
Sam Pandolfo 
shielded by sar­casm and keen wit, and clad in the 
Advertising
armor of paper-thin 
Executive
confidence waiting to charge. 
Then it happens, like Moses himself just parted the sea of Domers, and standing there across the room is his very own Helen of Troy embracing a silver-clad natural bever­{lge. 
This is in no way a fair fight. While we mere men are armed to the teeth with weapons that wouldn't work on a sixth grade bully, 'Helen' is her own dark army. Her weapon is intimidation, her strategy aversion, and her source of strength is a stare capable of stopping him dead in his tracks. The real danger lies in the wing-women she brought with her that are only there to make sure he fails in whatever end he's dumb enough to pursue. 
I consider myself to be an average Notre Dame guy who has no problem making a few friends at a party, but this battle seems to be lost from the begin­ning. Fear not my friends, there are ways to turn the odds in this battle in our favor. 
Step 1: Ask her name, and remember it. Even ifthings go sour and she jets, you'll be able to facebook her the next day and ask her out sometime. The worst thing that can happen is to be holding a glass slipper the next morning with no clue who it belongs to. 
Step 2: Show genuine interest in her. This requires listening skills and patience -practice with friends before­hand ifyou need to. Even ifit's hard to listen to her babble on about how much she loves "The O.C.," swallow hard and pretend it's your favorite show. 
Step 3: Dance with her. I'm not talking about VH1 Enrique Iglesias dancing (although it does work wonders in Zahm) -I want to see some MTV David Banner stuff. 
Step 4: Have your buddies entertain her friends. Be a gentleman and make sure everyone feels welcome, even the weird one with bangs. 
Step 5: Exercise patience. Even Wilt Chamberlain missed his first lay-up. 
I can assure you that following these simple steps will certainly get you a few brownie points and open the door for further exploration. Just remember it's not winning the battle that is important, it's winning the war. 
Contact Sam Pandolfo at 
spandolj@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
Due to an editing error, two articles in the Sept. 8 issue ofThe Observer were listed as being written by the wrong reporters. The article "Local coffee shop honors Weis" was actually written by Kathy Lee, and the article "Meal plan includes more Flex Points" was written by Peter Devine. Due to a reponing error, an article in the Sept. 8 issue of The Observer misspelled the last name of CJ's Pub owner Ricky Medich. That article also said the pub was damaged inJanuary 2004, when it was acrually damaged in January 2005. Due to a reporting error, an article in the Sept. 8 issue of The Observer misspelled the last name ofDirector of Notre Dame Food Services Dave Prentkowski and con­tained several factual inaccuracies. This year, 2,000 Flex Points were added, not 20, because a point is worth a penny, not a dollar. The points were added to keep up with consumer inflation, not because ofstudent com­plaints, and the administrative decision involved student input. The Bookstore Cafe began accepting the points last fall, not this fall. The Observer regrets these errors. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT SINGLE-SEX DORMS? 


Chris Cesca 
freshman Basil Hall 
'Top notch, superb, supreme, sublime. Go Irishr 


Di Liang 

grad student off-campus 
"I believe there are more positive aspects than negative ones. I support it.,, 


Kory Wilmot Matt Shikany 
junior junior Carroll Zahm 
"Since Carroll is 'They don ,t not really on bother me. It,s campus, I almost like a believe it should frat, except you be a multi-sex can ,t drink. dorm anyway.,, Plus you meet a 
Jean Henegan 
sophomore Lewis 
'Tm open to integration -it would make our section lingerie parties more interesting. ,, 
KaiSun 
grad student off-campus 
"Our dorms are single sex?, 

lot offriends with common interests. ,, 
IN BRIEF 

The Center for Social Concerns is sponsoring Hurricane Katrina Response Day today. A Cajun lunch fundraiser will take place from 
11:30 a.m.-1 p.m. Five speak­ers will participate in an Academic Forum on Disaster Relief from 2-3:30 p.m. A com­munal prayer will take place from 3:30-4 p.m., and a prayer vigil starting at 4 p.m. will run through midnight. All events will take place at the esc. 
The tri-military branches of ROTC will sponsor a Patriot's Day ceremony today at 7 a.m. next to the Hesburgh Library Reflecting Pool. The event will feature speaker retired Lieutenant Colonel Douglass 
R. Hemphill, a former Notre Dame professor of Military Science and current academic advisor in the Mendoza College of Business. The public is invit­ed to attend. 
An exhibit entitled Two Italian Hardbodies: Sports Cars Clad by Scaglietti and Frua will be on display in the Snite Museum of Art Entrance Atrium Gallery until Sept. 18. The exhibit features a 1958 Ferrari and a 1955 Maserati. Admission is free. 
A lecture entitled "Catholics and the Intellectual Life in Late 20th Century America" will be given by Patrick Allitt of Emory University at 4 p.m. today at the Eck Visitors Center. The lecture is spon­sored by the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer. e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

HIGH 91 HIGH 90 LOW 70 LOW 70 

A praying mantis enjoys sunny September skies while perching on a flower in front of Bond Hall Thursday. 
OFFBEAT 

Tiger urine gives meat a special "tang" 
SHANGHAI, China -A restaurant in northeastern China that advertised ille­gal tiger meat dishes was found instead to be selling donkey flesh -marinated in tiger urine, a newspaper reported Thursday. 
The Hufulou restaurant, located beside the Heidaohezi tiger reserve near the city of Hailin, had advertised stir-fried tiger meat with chilies for $98as well as liquor flavored with tiger bone for $74 a bottle, the China Daily reported. 
Raw meat was priced at $864 per kilogram. 
The sale of tiger parts is illegal in China and officers shut down the restaurant, only to be told by owner, Ma Shikun, that the meat was actually that of don­keys, flavored with tiger urine to give the dish a "special" tang, the newspa­per said. 
The report didn't say how the urine was obtained. 
Scuba divers begin ten days living underwater 
PONZA, Italy -Two scuba divers spent Thursday underwater off Italy, starting what they hope will be a record 10 days submerged -aided by a special dry chamber where they can change masks and eat. 
Stefano Barbaresi, 37, and Stefania Mensa, 29, completed the first day liv­ing 26 feet under water off the island of Ponza. 
They have nine days to go to reach their goal of 240 hours -doubling the 120 hours set by Jerry Hall of Bluff City, Tenn., in eastern Tennessee's Watauga Lake, according to the Guinness world records. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 
....I 
cs:: 
CJ 



0 

..... HIGH 80 HIGH 70 HIGH 84 HIGH 90 
LOW 72 LOW 65 LOW 67 LOW 67 
Atlanta 88 I 66 Boston 76 I 56 Chicago 84 I 64 Denver 86 I 56 Houston 94 I 73 Los Angeles 77 I 60 Minneapolis 84 I 68 New York 82 I 64 Philadelphia 84 I 62 Phoenix 98 I 80 Seattle 66 I 52 St. Louis 92 I 72 Tampa 88 I 76 Washington 86 I 64 
Friday, September 9, 2005 The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Trade 
continued from page 1 
and organizer of' thn event ­alTirnwd the goal of' the eimf'er­enee is to "ideally, help find guidelirws f'or policymakers for progress in the economic inte­gration that ean nnhancn thn Peonomic WPlf'an~ of' members of' thn soeinties in the Americas, which will eventual­ly advance tlw dnmocratiza­tion, se<:urit.~. and peace of these natrons. 
Currnntly, thn governments of' 1.:1 Salvador, c;uatemala artd llonduras'have approvod tho Cnntral Anwriean Frno Trade AgnH~nwnt (CAFTAI, and arn awaiting thn tn~aty's ratifica­tion in the Unitnd States Congwss. 
Thn agrnement aims to elimi­nate trado barriers such as tar­iff's bntwnen the fivo Central Amnrican eountri<~s and the Unitod Statns. 
Though many largo indus­tries in both countries would immndiatnly benefit !'rom the libnralization of the market, critics have shown concern for tiH~ small farmnrs and entre­prnneurs in Latin Amnrica who will bo unable to compete against subsidized U.S. exports. 
In rocont months, thore have bonn numorous riots and vio­lent protosts against CAFTA throughout Central America, some even rnsulting in several casualties. 
Political science professor and Kollogg follow Scott Mainwaring agrees that "regional nconomic integration is ono of the most important ynt controvorsial issues regard­ing tho futuro of oconomie development for our planet." 
"Advocates claim that eco­nomie integration boosts effi­ciency and will lead to improvements in the standard of living," he said. "Foes claim that it is bad for the environ­ment, omploymnnt, and equity, and that it will not boost eco­nomic development." 
Speak!lrs from four different eonti rwn ts, including thn for­mer Fornign Commerce Minister of Costa Hiea, will addrnss issuns such as the ben­dits and costs that may ariso from the globalization proeess. Othor conforoneo partieipants inelude prominent academic trado oeonomists, political sci­entists and polieymakers from tho In tnrnational Monetary Fund, lnter-Ameriean Development Bank, World Bank and other internationally renowned institutions. 
Borgstrand said the intnnt of the Kellogg Institute is for the confernnen to promotn research in major themes of development and democracy in today's world. lie also said he believes it is important for stu­dents to inform themselves of the economic situation affect­ing both the United States and Latin America. 
As sueh, the conference will includo a question and answer session for those unfamiliar with the subject Saturday at 2 
p.m. in the llesburgh Library Auditorium. Also, the $100 fee to attend the conference has been waived to allow Notre Dame faeulty and students to partieipate. 
Contact Marcela Berrios and Janice Flynn at mberrios@nd.edu and jflynnl@nd.edu 
Cushwa Center celebrates 30 years 
By ANTHONY 
IANNAMORELLI 
News Writer 
In honor of the Cushwa Center for the Study of American Catholicism's :~Oth anniversary this wnekend, Associate Director Kathleen Sprows Cummings is opening the Centor's doors for a public celebration. 
"You don't need to know nxactly what the Cushwa Center is to attend," Cummings said. 

The main events of the wnekend-long anniversary will (~xamine Leslio Woodeock commemoration are a lecture Tentler's work "An Ameriean Friday at 4 p.m. in the Eck History: Catholics an d Notre .Dame Visitors Center's Contraception," sixth out of 

Auditorium and a seminar Saturday, starting at 9 
a.m. at the MeKenna Hall Center for Continuing Education. 
Friday's lec­ture, entitled "Catholics and the Intellectual Life in Late 20th-Century America,"­

"You don't need to know exactly what the Cushwa Center 
· is to attend." 
Kathleen Sprows Cummings associate director Cushwa Center 
marks the 50th anniversary or an article published in 1955 by Monsignor .John Traey Ellis. The article was a "lament on the abscess of Catholics in intellectual life," a topic that hits very close to home in the Notre Dame community, Cummings said. 
The seminar on Saturday 
seven works in a comprehensive study on the effnet Catholics had on this aspect of American history up until 1968. 
The Center, which received its name from a largo endowment by the Cushwa family six years after its inception, spon­sors about eight events per year 

and publishns a newsletter each semester. Cummings coordinates the events and edits the publication, which documents happenings in thn field or religious history and has morn than 1,800 sub­scribers. 
Cummings said she and Director Tim Matovina arn 
attnmpting to build bridges betwmm the Conter and difl'er.­ont dnpartrnents, as all prior l>ireetors and Associate Dirnetors for the Center wnrn professors from Notrn Dame's history department. While Cummings is an associate pro­fnssor in the history dnpart­ment. she is also very active in gonder studies. Matovina is an assodatn professor in tho the­ology dnpartment and is active in Latino studies. Tho Center hopos to begin to ineorphrate many intnrnsts into its pur­pose. 
The two selwduled talks are prime examplos or what the Center is about, Cummings said. 
"We are not studying what tho Catholie Church has to say about certain events, but rather, tlw oll'ect Catholics and the Church have had on histo­ry," she said. 
Contact Anthony lannamorelli at aiannamo@nd.edu 
punk/alternative combo hailing from Minneapolis, MN Vans Warped tour 2004 performer who~ QU~ ElDRJV[Ewith opener The Underwater live@legends where~  brouoght 10 you bv the nudem union bo.lrd SUB.ND.EDU  


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 9, 2005 
Many students also said that parietals are a way for the University to make sure that stu­dents do not engage in sexual intercourse, which is a violation of school policy. 
According to DuLac, sex "requires a commitment to a total living and sharing together of two persons in marriage," Any stu­dent found in violation of this poli­cy is subject to disciplinary sus­pension or permanent dismissal. 
Some students think the idea that parietals prevent students from having sex negatively affects relations between genders. 
"In order to create a healthy environment here, this idea that parietals are about sex really needs to go," Rauh said. "It can add a sexual connotation to pla­tonic male-female friendships, at least those behind dosed doors after midnight. To foster a better atmosphere for gender relations, the Notre Dame community needs to, if you will, make it more natu­ral. Relationships are natural when they happen when people choose, not just between the hours of9 a.m. and midnight" 
The· University's policy actually has the opposite effect on some students, freshman Ashleigh Cross said. 
"It almost creates more of an emphasis on wanting to be in the other sex's dorms and rooms," Cross said. "And [it also creates an emphasis] on wanting to break parietals more because they exist." 
Parietals have been an issue of I)'luch debate in recent years. On April 30, 2001, nearly 300 stu­dents camped out on South Quad in. protest of the administrations opposition to extending late-night visiting hours. Though the Campus Life Council had just approved a resolution allowing visitors to be in dorms at 9 a.m., rather than 10 a.m., students were unsatisfied because the group defeated a proposal to extend parietals on weekdays. 
Uving off-campus 

Many students choose to live off-campus during their senior year, though some make the move earlier. This trend, students said, has fostered a healthier environ­ment for male-female relations. 
"Moving off campus tends to signify reaching a certain point in a career at Notre Dame," Senate Gender Issues Committee chair Ali Wishon said. "Healthier gen­der relations are one of many advantages of moving off. Moving off-campus allows for much more independence and freedom." 
Part of that freedom, Wishon said, means no longer having to "fear parietals." 
"It is much easier to relax and spend time at the apartment or house of members of the opposite sex, without constantly having to be aware of the dock," she said. 
However, parietals are not the only rule students leave behind when living oiT-eampus. 
"I think people move off-cam­pus to escape the rules in general, not just parietals. By the time people are seniors, the relation­ships that you have with the opposite sex seem to be set in stone," said Bullock, who lives at the Clover Ridge apartment com­plex. "Being off-campus doesn't change that. It just means that there's not a rector or an RA peering over your shoulder." 
Other students, however, said moving off-campus is just a better way to prepare for life away from the Dome, and not meant as an escape from the rules of the University. 
"I would say that the decision to move off campus is more a deci­sion to become more independent in preparation for life after gradu­ation than anything to do with relationships," Shappell said. 
And moving off-campus does not guarantee healthier gender relations, Burkavage said. 
"I think even off-campus people are as segregated as they are on campus -as far as living with people of the same sex," Burkavage said. "Obviously I think some people live eo-ed, but all my friends who are off-campus live with people of the same sex." 

Changing relationships 

"[Gender relations at Notre Dame are] more healthy than at bigger state Universities," junior James Ramos said. "I think ran­dom hook-ups here are less prevalent." 
Ramos, who said two of his closest friends at Notre Dame are female, said relationships do seem to change over time. 
"Guys are more accepting of being friends when you get older," as opposed to earlier in college where "it's more about hooking up," Ramos said. 
Sophomore Ashley Modak agreed with Ramos' theory of relationship evolution, with seri­ous relationships becoming more and more common as a student gets older. 
"I think the major change from freshman to senior year is the level of maturity," said Shappell, a former worker at the Gender Relations Center. "Students become more serious about rela­tionships." · 
But many students disagreed with Ramos about the healthiness of Notre Dame relationships. 
Shappell noted that while mod­erate relationships do occur, ran­dom hook-ups and intense rela­tionships -including the "ring­by-spring" phenomenon that marries off students by senior year -represent the vast majori­ty of interactions on campus. 
"Random hook-ups are very eommon when students are par­tying," she said. "Serious relation­ships are also seen across earn­pus. Anything in between, howev­er, is rare." 
Junior Matt Houser was even more emphatic in saying there was no middle ground with Notre Dame relationships, especially since he thinks the environment pressures males to start romantic relationships. 
"I think that the relationships here are seriously messed up," Houser said. "First of all, there js no dating. Two people hook up when they are drunk a few times and then all of a sudden they are together." 
Cross said random hook-ups have little to do with Notre Dame and a lot to do with college cul­ture. 
"That's an everywhere thing," she said. "It has to do with alcohol and people trying to find them­selves during their first and sec­ond years." 
Regardless of where the heart of the gender relations issue lies, Doyle said the transitions from year to year help students become more at ease in their environment. 
"Students become more aware of and comfortable with the gen­der relations at Notre Dame as they progress from freshman to senior year," she said. 
There's no easy solution to the problem, Shappell said, but there are ways to improve the situation. 
"I think it is difficult to pinpoint what exactly is missing from gen­der relations at NO," Shappell said. "However, I think that they could be improved with increased dialogue about gender relations issues and another look at the parietals system." 
Contact Kate Antonacci and Karen Langley at kantonac@nd.edu and klanglel@nd.edu 


Gender 
continued from page 1 
don't have to worry about," said Walsh senator and sophomore Erin Hankins. "Because of single­sex dorms, students get a chance to form very strong, healthy rela­tionships with others of the same sex." 
"It limits the number of people of the opposite sex who you are going to come in contact with and meet," freshman Nick Kovachevich said. "But it also makes you a lot closer with your guy friends and brothers." 
Some students, however, said this limitation made finding frier;ds of the opposite sex and forming healthy friendships sig­n'ificantly more difficult, especially when considering the background of 
the opposite sex dur­ing those four years," O'Neill sena­tor and sophomore Steve Tortorello said. "Because of this, many students aren't used to forming genuine friendships with the opposite sex -that is, rela­tionships that are based on some­thing more than just flirting." 
Sophomore Dan Justice sees a more dramatic result of single-sex dorms. 
"It makes [the campus] into two zones with guys' dorms as party dorms," he said. "No one bothers to go to girls' dorms. It makes for zones where you can get away with stuff and where you can't." 
Though many upperclassmen said they have enjoyed their over­all experience at Notre Dame, some students expressed feelings that more friendships could have been formed with members of the opposite sex had the dorms not been single-sex. 
"I am glad to have the friend­ships that I have with guys here, but I think that things could have been better," senior Elizabeth Bullock said. "So I would say that I am content with my friends, but not content with the opportunities I had to make more or closer friends." 
Bullock said her main problem was that "Notre Dame doesn't treat its students like adults" and does not give co-ed housing as an option. 
"I think that co-ed dorms would be a good step," Bullock said. "Even if they didn't want to make all of the dorms co-ed, at least give students an opportunity to make that decision for them­selves. But rather than trusting the students to make good choic­es, they decide that we'll live with members of the same sex and that seeing the opposite sex after midnight is inappropriate." 
While single-sex dorms are the cause of much controversy, some students believe they contribute to Notre Dame's uniqueness and are not worth changing. 
"I don't think it would be worth sacrificing the dorm unity and atmosphere that we have now to move guys and girls into the same dorm to help the relationship thing," senior Andy Burkavage said. "I think that the University has a lot more to lose from getting rid of the current situation than they have to gain from the inte­gration of co-ed dorms." 

Parietals ups and downs 
It's not just the single-sex dorms creating controversy. Parietals are a constant source of debate that divides students and admin­istrators. 

The University rule limiting late-night visiting hours was insti­tuted "to foster the personal and social development of residence hall students and at the same time respond to the safety, securi­ty and privacy needs of students sharing common living space," according to DuLac, Notre Dame's official guidebook to student life. 
Undergraduate residence halls set their opposite-sex visitation hours as specified by DuLac: visit­ing hours are not to begin before 9 a.m. on any day and are not to extend past 2 a.m. on Friday and Saturday nights and midnight on other nights. Graduate student housing allows for 24-hour visita­tion. 
"The University's values are to develop well-founded adults," said student body vice president Lizzi Shappell, who defended the 
parietals policy. 
Many stu­
many Notre Dame "I think that dents, however, students. blame parietals
relationships here 
"A lot of our stu­for the dents come from sin­are seriously unhealthy devel­gle-sex high schools messed up." opment of male­and did not have female relation­daily contact with ships, even if

Matt Houser 
they are not 

junior 
roman tie. "I think that 
parietals have a big effect on gender relation's," Bullock said. "It doesn't prevent the 'hook-up' from happening between guys and girls, but it stops the normal behavior like watching a movie late at night or staying up to talk." 
Pangborn senator and sopho­more Lisa Rauh agreed with Bullock, saying parietals seriously impeded budding male-female friendships. 
"At most universities, even if there are single-sex dorms, peo­ple have the opportunity to get to build these important platonic relationships with the opposite sex because there is no time limit on how long a conversation can last or two people can hang out," Rauh said. "It is difficult to be in the midst of a great conversation or discussion, and suddenly it is midnight and that person, because they happen to be of the opposite sex, has to leave." 
While outlets like Reekers or 24-hour spaces are provided for students to continue such conver­sations, many students find it dif­ficult to foster such friendships in loud, public places. 
Shappell said parietals "seem to hyperactivate any social time between the sexes, especially on the weekends at dorm parties." 
w~ When it:'s t:he prestigious Luce scholarship, finding you an exciting 1-yr Job In the far east, strategically chosen to match your career goals. Apply by November 4, 2005. 
Interested? 29 or younger? Have you now (or will you have by the end of May, 2005) an NO degree? No east-Asia experience? For more information. contact Mrs. Nancy O'Connor(nmee@nd.edu) 







ORLD & NATION 
FriJay, September 9, 2005 COM PI LED F. ROM THE OBSERVER'S Wl RE SERVICES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Arafat's kidnapped son is released 
(;;\Z;\ CITY. (;aza Strip -The kidnapped son of slain ex-security chief Moussa t\rafat was rnlnasnd early Friday, two days after he was snized by thn attaekers who killed his father. 
An ;\ssoeiatnd Prnss reporter saw Manhal t\rafat entnr the olliee of Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas in Gaza City early Friday, aeeompaniml by Palestinian officials. 
Dozens of gunmen stormed the t\rafat homn Wndrwsday morning, killing the former lwad of Palestinian sneurity and abducting his SOil. 
!\ maskod man saying he represents the Popular Hnsistanee Committees, a renegade group, rnaiTirnwd responsibility for the killing and kidnapping, after leaders of the group distanced themselvns from the attar.k. 
NATO aids areas struck by Katrina 
FH/\NKFUHT. Germany-The United States turned Thursday to its allies in NATO. whirh sent /\WACs planes to patrol 
U.S. skies after the Sept. II attacks, to help bring in food and supplies for the hundreds of thousands of Americans left homeless by llurri1~ane Katrina. 
Military experts began drawing up plans for an expanded roln, ineluding the possible use of ships from the nlite NATO Hesponse Force to f1~rry the aid. The 11xtraordinary rPqunst ~~omPs at a limn when many nations oJTering aid arn ('.omplaining that they h<tve rnr.nived no answpr from U.S. authorities. 
"NATO military authorities aro now going to discuss this proposal," Kurt Volknr. the 
U.S. principal deputy assistant Secretary of State for l\urop1~an and Eurasian Affairs, said in Brussnls, Belgium. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Katrina rescuers evacuate stragglers 
NEW OHLE/\NS -More stragglers seemed willing to flnn tho filthy water and stench of death Thursday as increasingly insistent res­cuers made what may bn their last peaceful pass through swamped New Orleans before using 
l(lf(:n. 
"Some am linally saying, 'I've had enough,"' said U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman Mi<:had Keegan. "They're getting dehydratnd. They am running out of food. There are human remains in different houses. The smolls mess with your psyc:he." 
Police said they were 80 percent done with their sean of the city for voluntary evacuees, aftnr whieh they planned to begin carrying out Mayor Hay Nagin's order to forcibly remove romaining residents from a city filled with dis­easn-earrying water, broken gas lines and rotting eorpsns. 

Base closing proposal withdrawn 
Wt\SIIINGTON -The base dosing commis­sion submitted its reeommendations to the White llouse on Thursday night after with­drawing proposed changes at an Air National Guard basn in Connecticut. 
What was to have been a routine paperwork delivery of those proposals to President Bush was threatoned by a cross-country legal fight. 
Judges in Conneetir.ut and Tennessee blocked the panel from recommending changes at local Air National Guard basos. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Indiana issues air pollution alert 
INDIANAPOLIS -People with heart and breathing problnms should limit outdoor activ­ities at lnast through Friday because of unhealthy levels of microscopic partielns, state nnvironnwntal ollicials warn. 
The Indiana Department of Environmental Management has issued an alert for the Indianapolis, Evansville, Louisville and Terre llautn areas. 
Fine particles -soot, dust and liquid droplets -are so tiny, they can lodge deep in the lungs and cause breathing and cardiae problems. 
CANADA 



Jintao makes visit to Canada 
Chinese president intends to improve oil, energy ties, trade; Washington looks on 
Associated Press 
OTTAWA -Chi"nese 
President Ilu Jintao laud­
ed his country's joint role 
with Canada in promot­
ing global peace and 
development Thursday, 
arriving on his first state 
visit to here with the goal 
of improving oil and 
energy ties. 1-Iu's visit was 
aimed at celebrating 35 
years of diplomatic links 
and rapidly expanding 
trade between the two 
nations, but also r.oml\s 
at. a time of uneasy rela­
tions between 
Washington and Ottawa. 
"The two economies are 
highly complementary for 
one another and their 
vast potentials are mutu­
ally beneficial," llu told a 
welcoming ceremony at 
Hidnau llall, the ol'fielal 
residence of Governor 
General Adrienne 
Clarkson. lie and his 
wife, Liu Yongqing, rode 
in an antique horse­
drawn carriage and then 
received full military 
honors. 
Jlu spoke of the·shared responsibility of Canada and China to protect the Pacific Him. 

"China and Canada shoulder important responsibilities in safe­guarding world peace "It is a very important who outlawed the form of intend to meet on the and promoting common issue and there isn't a spiritual meditation. sidelines of a U.N. meet­development," said Hu, trade-off between human Beijing has dubbed Falun ing next week in New through an interpreter. rights and economics," Gong an "evil cult" and York, but thn postporw­
China is Canada's sec­he said. "We are going to thousands of its followers ment upset llu's plans to ond-largest trading part­be raising both issues have been jailed. try to polish Beijing's ner, after the United and I can tell you that in Washington will closely image in Washington States, and Ottawa and my meetings with the watch the official visit, amid strains ovnr China's Beijing conducted some president on this particu­which includes meetings· growing nconomie and $30 billion worth of trade lar trip it will be at the with Martin and federal, military power, human last year. With the very top of the list." provincial and business rights and other issues. worJd 's fastest growing A few dozen followers leaders in Ottawa, Following the cancella­economy and rapid Falun Gong stood outside Toronto and Vancouver. tion of Hu's trip, China's urbanization, the Chinese Rideau Hall, quietly wav­The trip came the same main Communist Party are hungry for more oil ing banners and meditat­week that Hu postponed newspaper, the People's and natural resources -ing. "We hope that Hu a visit to the United Daily, assailed the U.S. and Canada has those, in Jintao will not continue States after President response to II urrieane abundance. to carry on the notorious Bush canceled a meeting Katrina. But officially, the 
Prime Minister Paul crimes and persecution of that had been planned Chinese government has Martin said earlier in the Jiang Zemin," said Li for Wednesday with the expressed its sympathy to day, however, that eco­Xun, a businessman from Chinese leader, citing Katrina's victims, sending nomics should not over­Ottawa, referring to the Hurricane Katrina. the U.S. a $5 million shadow human rights. former Chinese president The two presidents donation plus supplies. 

Hurricane Ophelia nears Fla. coast 
months. "We know from last year these storms 
Associated Press 

Downpours from earlier storms -had ean do an about-lace. We are not out of 
NEW SMYRNA BEACH, Fla. -caused flooding in Flagler County, raising the woods unless this storm moves wnll Tropical Storm Ophelia strengthened anxiety levels about the effect of more away from Volusia's mast," said Dave into a hurricane a..c; it stalled 70 miles off rain. Authorities shut down a mile-long Byron, spokesman for Volusia County. the northeast Florida coast Thursday, stretch of beachfront road in Flagler Volusia County schools were dosed churning waves that caused beach ero­Beach so transportation workers could Thursday. sion and drenching Kennedy Space shore it up with sand and boulders. Ophelia is the 15th namod storm of the Center. "The storm is eating up our dunes," season. At 8 p.m., it wa..c; centered about 
Thursday night, Ophelia had top sus­said Carl Laundrie, communications 75 miles east-northeast of Cape tained winds of 75 mph, just over the manager for Flagler County. Canaveral, with hurricane-force winds threshold to be dassified as a hurricane, As a precaution, 14 Navy ships at the stretching up to 15 miles from the r.enter. forecasters at the National Hurricane Naval Station Mayport in Jacksonville The storm was stationary. Center said. headed to sea. Hurricane specialist Jaek Beven said 
But forecasters said it was still undear Two shelters in Flagler County were Ophelia should start moving north or where Ophelia was headed. also readied just in case. Neighboring northeast -away from land -within a 
If it hits Florida, it would become the Volusia County opened three shelters, day or so. However, it could curl back third hurricane to strike the state this but later dosed them because just 12 early next week and slam north Florida year and the seventh in the last 13 people showed up. or Georgia as a Category 1 hurricane. 
----------------,---,,-----------------------------------------------.. 
page 6 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 9, 2005 
Michigan 
continued from page 1 
threats and fights broke out between students of the two schools. 
Michigan Stadium's security has been tightened to ensure that fans keep their aetions under control. The university will not permit bags larger than a sheet of paper, con­tainers, alcoholic beverages of any kind or food inside the stadium, according to a state­ment from the school's secu­rity department. Any person who throws projnctiles will be ejected from the game, cited and possibly face administra­tive action from the school, to figure a few thousand fans Michigan security officials will be there," senior Dan said. Zenker said. 

The majority of students Zenker also said he thinks 
making the  the proximity of  
journey this weekend  "Some people are  Michigan is what causes  
are  upper­ pretty hostile, but it's  large numbers  
classmen who remem­ber how the Irish were  not going to stop me from wearing my Notre Dame gear. "  of students to attend the game, despite having to alter  
treated the  trip  plans  
last time they visited Michigan­ Pat Moore freshman  slightly from previous years because or ris­ 
and  intend  ing gas prices.  
to  make  "[My  friends  

sure Notre Dame is well rep­and Il try to go to the away resented in the Big House. games that are somewhat "Being that it's so close and close," Zenker said. "The six­we won last week, you have hour trip to [Pittsburgh! 
makes the three-hour trip to to support the team," he said. Ann Arbor seem like nothing. "Win or lose, a lot of Notre A lot of the kids are going to Dame fans will be there to try to carpool. root on our Obviously new coach." 
with gas Moore said
"Win or lose, a lot of

prices the way he isn't fazed they are you Notre Dame fans will be. by the high don't want to tension that
there to root on our 

drive by your­awaits him in
new coach."

self to Ann Ann Arbor. Arbor." "Some peo­
Zenker said Dan Zenker ple are pretty that for the senior hostile, but it's most fervent not going to of Notre Dame stop me from fans, nothing wearing my will stand in the way of Notre Dame gear," he said. cheering on coach Charlie Weis and the Irish as they give Michigan their best. Contact Joe Piarulli at 
"[Many! students are going jpiarull@nd.edu 

Auletta 
continued from page 1 
ten to your customers," Auletta said, playing the part of corporate owner. "Isn't a good business supposed to understand its customers?" 
The problem arises, Auletta said, when journalists focus­ing on their "craft" clash with the businHss approach to their profession. 
"Journalists prize independ­ence, not teamwork," Auletta said. "Journalists understand waste is inherent to good journalism that good reporting and writing is hard to quantify." 
Although as a journalist Auletta understands the anti­corporate sentiment, he made several concessions. 
"It's wrong to portray our bosses in a cartoon fashion as greedy capitalists uncon­cerned with anything besides maximum profits," he said. "Most journalistic enterprises need to make a profit Iand provide a range of news). But too often this journalistic supermarkets have become specialty stores." 
After citing five major "vices" in today's journalism -synergy, infatuation with brand, lack of humility, hubris and bias -Auletta gave an eight-step solution to the pro­gressively widening rift. 
"First, give journalists more time and space," he said. "Too often journalists are like fire­fighters -we are reacting, not thinking. Journalism is about sifting information, finding different courses ... It's not just a bird's eye view." 
Secondly, Auletta said read­ers needed access to essential hard news stories, for the public good. 
"Journalists and the people who sign our checks have to be willing to risk boring our audience" with more govern­ment and international news, he said. "It's not easy." 
Although he listed bias as a journalist's vice, Auletta said objectivity was impossible. 
"But fairness is possible. Balance is possible," he said. "We can be skeptical without being cynical." 
Auletta stressed the impor­tance of diversity in the news­room and better communica­tion between journalists and businessmen and women. He denounced the idea of a parti­san press, saying it would only create further polariza­tion in American society. 
His last piece of advice? "Be prepared to be fired," Auletta said. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 





IPEIDTAL(ISM 
t'MI f'Ait'llt' WA'r t'O~ 
-----·~ 


speedt?lk~ 
Unlimited SpeedTalk Minutes 
• 
1000 Anytime Minutes 

• 
$49.95 per month 


• 
AQLJJ) Instant Messenger"' service-FREE Trial 

• 
Buy 1 and get up to 3 LG UX4750 phones FREE (with 2-year contracts and mail-in rebates) 




-(<US.Cellular 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 

Offer valid on two-year service agreement on local and regional plans ot $49.95 or higher. All service agreements subject to an early termination tee. Credit approval required. $30 activation toe. $15 equipment change fee. Roaming charges. fees, surcharges, overage charges and taxes apply. S0.96 Regulatory Cost Recovery Fee charge applies. This Is not a tax or government required charge. Local network coverage and reliability may vary_ Usage rounded up to the next full minute. Use of service consfttutes acceptance of our terms and conditions. Use of the AOL• Instant Messenger"' service mobile application requires easyedge·• data services on 1M account Buy one get three free only valid it a two-year service agreement is purctmsed for SpeedTalk service on all handsets and requires mali-In rebate per line. Allow 10-12 weeks for rebate processing. SpeedTalk SpeedTalk capable handsel required. SpeedTalk r.alls may only be made with other U.S. Cellular SpeedTalk subscribers. SpeedTalk is only available in U.S. Cellular's enhanr.ed services coverage areas. Wt1ile you are on a SpeedTalk r.all, your Wifeless r.alls will go directly to voir.email. If you roam outside of U.S. Cellular's enhanced services coverage area you will not be able to place a SpeedTalk r.all. SpeedTalk is a proprietary servir.e marl< of U.S. Collular. other restrictions apply. See store lor details. Limited time offer. <02005 U.S. Cellular Corporation. 

THE OBSERVER 





USINESS

Friday, Seprem!1er 9, 2005 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 
Dow 


10,595.93 -37.57
Jones ~· 

Up: Same: Down: Composite VolumE I ,242 I 77 ., 1,941,081,140 
AM£X I ,696.08 +5.28 NASDAQ 2,166.03 -6.00 NYSf 7.594.64 --30.60,: S&PSOO 1,231.67 -4.69 NIKKEI(Tokyo) l 2,533.89 o~oo ... h ffif IOO(Lonclon) 5,340.79 -25.11 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
SIRIUS SATELLITE R (SIRI) +3.00 +0.21 7.20 NASDAQ I00 (QQQQ) -0.02 -0.0 I 39.40 INTEL CP (INTC) + 1.68 +0.43 . 26.09 CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) -0.16 -0.03 I 8.37 MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.89 -0.24 26.61 
Treasuries · 
30-YEAR BOND +0.07 +0.03 44.22 I0-YEAR NOTE +0.02 +0.0 I 41.39 5-YEAR NOTE +0.1 8 +0.07 39.43 3-MONTH BILL -0.21 -0.07 33.98 
Commodities 

LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) +0.12 64.49 GOLD ($fTroy oz.) + 1.70 449.00 PORK BELLIES (cents/lb.) + 1.08 79.95 
Excha Rates 

YEN I I 0.525( EURO 0.8061 POUND 0.544~ CANADIAN$ 1.18 IE 
IN BRIEF 

Dollar gains on Euro overseas 
FHANKFliHT. Gnrmany-The dollar rosn against the nuro and other rival currencies Thursday in Hurricane Katrina's aftermath. as oil priens dropped and hopns for higher U.S. intP.-nst ratns worn rnnewed. 
In latn Nnw York trading, the 12-nation euro bought $1.2391, down from $1.2416 late Wndrwsday. after Gnrrnany's trade surplus narrownd during .July as import gains out­pacml exports gains. according to a report Thursday. 
Tho British pound slippnd to $1.S349 from $1.S:l5h aftnr the Bank of England, in a widely nxpnetml movn, lwld official intnrest rates stnady at 4.5 p1~rcnnt. The dollar bought I I 0.4S .laparwse yen. up from I I 0.06 yen, dnspitn a roport from .Iapan's central bank that said tho ncont11ny thorn continued to improve. Tho dollar rose to 1.2452 Swiss francs from 1.2424, but fell to 1.1 S 17 Canadian dollars from 1.1 SIJ I. 
Tlw dollar slid last wenk on conenrns that Katrina, whieh dnvaslatod a swath of the U.S. <iulf Coast, may dampen economic growth. 
Curroncy traders speculated that the U.S. FIHJeral Hnserve may, as a result, halt a series of intnrnst rate increases, which would dimin­ish the appeal of dollar-denominated invest­mnnts. 
Crude edges up; U.S. output falls 
NEW YOHK-Oil prices ended higher for the first limn this week Thursday, as early selling sparked by a widely expected inven­tory dneline gave way to last-minute buying triggnn~d by word of a deelinfl in Gulf of Mexico output. 
The amount of Cull' of Mexico oil produc­tion shut in by Hurricane Katrina rose to 901,726 harr1~ls a day, or 60.12 percent of total output, up from 57.37 percent report­od shut in Wednnsday, the fnderal Minerals Managm1wnt Snrviee said. 
Tlw amount of shut in natural gas remained largely unehangnd at about 4 bil­lion eubie font a day, tho federal agency said. 
More than 14 million barrols of oil and 76 billion cubic feel of gas have been lost sinco Aug. 26 as a result of Katrina, according to MMS. 
Medicare expansion in works 
Insurers await Washington's decision concerning 1nassive drug plan changes 
Associated Press 

IIAHTFOIW, Conn. ­Seniors on Medicare are about to be swamped with choices as the foder­al government enaets a massive prescription drug program and hnalth insurers begin battling to sign up customers across the country. 
Fednral health ofTieials will formally announce this month which compa­nies will participate. but some insurers jumped the gun by announcing Wednesday that lln~y have been chosen. Initial nstimates projnct that Mediearn Part D. part of the grnatnst expansion in Medicare's 40-year histo­ry, will cost nearly $400 billion ovnr 10 years. 
It promises to be an narn ings bonanza for the nation's largnst health insurors, according to Goldman Sachs &. Co. The investmnnt l'irm estimat­ed in July that the pre­scription drug program will generate as much as $10 billion in revenue lion. Advantage, which otTers a a b0 u t t hn t n I' Ills () f tlw and $250 million in earn­"I know I sound like range of health plans, are eontracts, hut. Torchmark ings next year for nine Pollyanna, but tlw theory estimated at $:l2 a Corp. said Wednesday large insurance compa­is capitalism says that month, aeeording to a that its United Ameriean nies. people will have higher spokesman f'or the feder­lnsuranen business plans 
Insurers already are value (and) lower price or al Centers for Medicare to market the plans to its spending millions to ramp they won't be very sue­and Medicaid Services. existing 300,000 up marketing campaigns cessful in the private Premiums could be as low Medicarn supplement pol­and prepare for the for­marketplace," said Scott as $20 a month for the icyholders and other mal rollouts of their pro­Latimer of Kentueky­drug program. Medicare bennf'ieiaries. grams, even if the system based llumana Inc. "I Participating seniors Wnllpoint. Aetna, is designed to invite com­certainly expect that's will spend an average Pacif'iCare, United llnalth petition and hold down going to be happnning in $792 for prescription and Cigna llnalthCan~. a costs. Aetna Inc. in spades next year." drugs in 2006, excluding unit of Cigna Corp. in Hartford and PacifiCare ' Medicare benel'ieiaries premiums. or 37 percent Philadelphia, are all llealth Systems Inc. in will be able to sign up for less than the $1,257 cost seeking to otTer drug ben­Los Angeles are each a stand-alone drug plan without the bcnel'it, efit plans nationwidP. spending $50 million, or join a health plan that according to a July 2004 llumana wants to offer its llumana will spnnd $SO offers drug coverage. report by the produets in 46 states. million, Cigna llnalthCare Goldman Sachs projects Congressional Budget Sevnral insun~rs -sueh in Philadelphia is spend­that nearly 17.5 million Office. as Pacil'iearn, Antna and ing up to $40 million; seniors-about 41 per­Contracts were sent Unitedllealth, based in Indianapolis-based cent of those eligible to reeently to insuranc~n Minnotonka. Minn., -Wellpoint has committed participate -will enroll companies bidding for the ~~ xpee t to r e I y on some $30 million and in the drug plan in 2006. business nationally and form of pharmacy busi­Unitedllnalth Group Inc. Premiums for the drug locally. The insurers and ness they are already said it will spend $75 mil-program and Medicare CMS arc not giving details running. 
Stock market stalls; investors profit 
ings and consumer spending would Broader stock indicators also lost
Associated Press 

drop due to high energy costs. ground. The Standard &. Poor's 500 
NEW YORK -Oil worries and a Investors also worried that the index slid 4.68, or 0.3S percent, to raft of economic uneertainties Federal Reserve would continue to 1,231.6S, and the Nasdaq composite plagued Wall Street on Thursday, raise interest rates at its Sept. 20 index dropped 6.00, or 0.2S percent, sending stocks lower as investors meeting. Despite Katrina's devasta­to 2,166.03. collected profits after the strong tion and death toll, the harm to the Bonds held steady after two ses­gains of the previous two sessions. U.S. economy was less than original­sions of selling, with the yield on the 
Oil prices edged higher after a ly expected, and hopes of a halt in 10-year Treasury note remaining at report said 60 percent of oil produc­rate hikes dimmed. 4.14 pereent from late Wednesday. tion in the Gulf of Mexico remains "I think the Fed's in a box here, The dollar was mixed against most shut due to damage by llurrieane and they really don't have a choice major currencies, while gold prkns Katrina. but to raise rates," said Michael moved higher. 
An inventory report from the Chren, portfolio manager for the Investors' preoccupation with oil Energy Department showed the Allegiant Funds.. "Rebuilding from and interest rates caused them to nation's oil and gasoline stockpiles the hurricane will be an economic look past a surprising drop in first­fell considerably, although the losses positive next year, you have concerns time jobless claims. The Labor were less than Wall Street expected. about inflation, and you have the Dopartmont reportod the numbc~r of A barrel of light crude settled at housing .?ubble. I don't think they new unemployment claims fell to $64.49, up 12 cents, on the New can stop. 319,000 last weok, 1,000 less than York Mercantile Exchange. The Dow Jones industrial average the prior wonk. More daims, howev­
With oil remaining in the mid-$60 fell 37.57, .or 0.35 percent, to or, arn expoeted in the eoming wonks per barrel range, investors were 10,595.93. The Dow had gained from workers displacnd by tho Gulf' concerned that both corporate earn-186.13 in the previous two sessions. Coast disaster. 

page 8 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS Friday, September 9, 2005 
FDA panel votes for 
Brain possibly still evolving
.. 

Findings show humans could be genetically changing, scientists say
nevv insulin approval 
Associated Press 

Inhalable drug to be an alternative to injections 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -Federal health advise.rs on Thursday recommended government approval of the first inhaled form of insulin, offering some diabetics an alternative to many of their daily injections. 
The recommendation by a Food and Drug Administration advisory panel came despite questions about use of the drug in people who have lung disease or were exposed to secondhand smoke. 
No specific restrictions were recommended for Exubera, but FDA officials said smokers prob­ably would not be able to use the drug. Their blood sugar could fall dangerously low with Exubera because they absorb· much more inhaled insulin in their lungs than do nonsmokers. 
Some advisers also were con­cerned that patients might not use the device properly. Drug company representatives sug­gested that the inhaler was not any more complicated than the injections many diabetics now must rely on. 
Panel members twice voted 7­2 to recommend FDA approval of Exubera for each of the two most common types of diabetes. The drug is being produced by Pfizer, Sanofi-Aventis and Nektar Therapeutics. 
The FDA usually follows the recommendations of its advisory committees, but is not required to. 
The advisers questioned the drug companies about the long­term effects of distributing insulin to the body through the lungs, rather than directly into the blood stream. 
Rebecca Wilkes Killion, a patient representative member of the committee, said inhaled two genes, named microcephalin and ASPM, that are connected to brain size. If those genes don't work, babies are born with severely small brains, called microcephaly. 
Using DNA samples from eth­nically diverse populations, they identified a collection of varia­tions in each gene that occurred with Unusually high frequency. In fact, the variations were so com­mon they couldn't be accidental mutations but instead were probably due to natural selec­tion, where genetic changes that are favorable to a species quick-
Years later, a 
ruler declares one of those copies the definitive manuscript, and. a rush is on to make many copies of that ver­when art, music and tool-making were emerging, Lahn said. For ASPM, the variation arose about 5,800 years ago, roughly corre­lating with the development of written language, spread of agri­culture and development of cities, he said. 
"The genetic evolution of humans in the very recent past might in some ways be linked to the cultural evolution," he said. 
Other scientists urge great caution in interpreting the research. 
That the genetic changes have anything to do with brain size or intelligence "is totally unproven and potentially dangerous terri­tory to get into with such sketchy data," stressed Dr. Francis Collins, director of the National Human Genome Research 
-Institute. Aside from not knowing what the gene variants actually do, no one knows how precise the model Lahn used to date them is, CollinS added. Lahn 's own calculations acknowledge that the micro­cephalin variant could have aris­en anywhere from 14,000 to 60,000 years ago, and that the uncertainty about the ASPM variant ranged from 500 to 14,000 years ago. Those criticisms are particu­

insulin could convince reluctant diabetics that they should take their medicine. 
"I take four shots a day and the fourth one is hardest one," Killion said. ''I'm tired of it. If I could get myself down to one I'd be thrilled. A lot of people resist it because they are afraid of the needles." 
The companies, which are promoting Exubera as an easi­er-to-take alternative, proposed to conduct studies on the long­
ASHINGTON -The human brain may still be evolving. 
So suggests new research that tracked changes in two genes thought to help regulate brain growth, changes that appeared well after the rise of modern humans 200,000 years ago. 
That the defining feature of humans -our large brains ­continued to evolve as recently as 5,800 years ago, and may be doing so today, promises to sur­prise the average person, if not biologists. 
"We, including 

term effects of the drug until  scientists,  have  "There's a sense we  ly  gain  a  
2019. "We understand the need to assess the long-term effects on  considered our­selves as sort of the pinnacle of evolu­ as humans have kind ofpeaked. A  foothold and begin to spread, the researchers  
pulmonary function," said Dr.  tion," noted lead  different way to  report.  
Neville Jackson of Pfizer. During · drug trials, researchers found that inhaled  researcher Bruce Lahn, a University of Chicago geneti­ look at it is it's almost impossible  Lahn offers an a n a I o g y : Medieval monks  
insulin generally was as effec­ cist whose studies  for evolution not to  would  copy  
tive as injections in controlling blood sugar levels. Some  appear in Friday's edition of the jour­ happen."  manuscripts and each copy  
patients  who  took  inhaled  nal Science.  would inevitably  
insulin complained of coughing  "There's a sense  Greg Wray  contain errors  
and a small decrease in breath­ we as humans have  director, Center for  - accidental  
ing capacity.  kind of peaked,"  Evolutionary Genomics  m uta t ions.  

It is estimated that more than 18 million people in the U.S. have diabetes, although some do not know it. The number of people with diabetes is believed to have tripled in the past quar­ter-century. 
Most have Type 2, a condition linked to obesity that occurs when the body cannot effective­ly use the insulin it makes. Sometimes this can be treated with pills instead of injections. 
Fewer than 10 percent have Type 1, a disorder in which the immune system attacks insulin­producing cells in the pancreas. This is sometimes called juve­nile diabetes. 
An FDA medical officer ques­tioned whether inhaled insulin could provide a precise enough dose to treat people with Type 1 diabetes. 
agreed Greg Wray, director of Duke University's Center for Evolutionary Genomics. "A dif­ferent way to look at is it's almost impossible for evolution not to happen." 
Still, the findings also are con­troversial, because it's far from clear what effect the genetic changes had or if they arose when Lahn's "molecular clock" suggests -at roughly the same time period as some cultural achievements, including written language· and the development of cities. 
Lahn and colleagues examined sion -so whate.ver changes . larly important, Collins said, from the original are in this pre-because Lahn's testing did find sumed important copy become geographic differences in popu­widely disseminated. lations harboring the gene vari-
Scientists attempt to date ants today. They were less com­genetic changes by tracing back mon in sub-Saharan African to such spread, using a statistical populations, for example. model that assumes genes have That does not mean one popu­a certain mutation rate over lation is smarter than another, time. Lahn and other scientists 
For the microcephalin gene, stressed, noting that numerous the variation arose about 37,000 other genes are key to brain years ago, about the time period development. 


DRAFTING DIVERSITY ENHANCING OUR CULTURAL COMMUNITY 
A Le~dership Training Retreat Friday-Saturday September 30-0ctober 1 
Want to develop retreat leadership skills in a culturally diverse setting? Need to develop the language and confidence when speaking of cultural diversity in the classroom or in private conversations? Need a change from homogeneity? 
If you answered yes to any of these questions, sign up for the DDECC Leadership Retreat today! It's new and one of a kind! 
To register, e-mail Chandra Johnson at cjohnson7@nd.edu. Registration deadline is Friday, September 16. For further information contact Covington Doan (cdoan@nd.edu ) or Melanie Berge (mberge@nd.edu). 
Sponsored by Campus Ministry and Multicultural Student Programs and Services. 
I 
r 
I I 
I 
ATHLETIC TRAINING & SPORTS MEDICINE 
There will be a meeting for any Notre Dame freshman students interested in the student athletic training program. The meeting will· be held on Monday, September 12th, at 4:15p.m. in the Joyce Center Athletic Training Room. 


hiday, September 9, 2005 The Observer + NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Hurricane garners African-Atnerican response, relief 
Katrina brings outcry from members of black populace nationwide, who provide survivors with food, clothing, shelter 


~ ~ 
SUBS 

HEY IRISH FANS/ 

TAILGATE FOR HURRICANE RELIEF 
WATCH THE FIGHTING IRISH VS. MICHIGAN ON BIG SCREEN TV'S SATURDAY SEPT. 10TH 
AT JERSEY MIKE'S IN THE LOBBY OF THE COLLEGE FOOTBALL HALL OFFAME 

FREE JERSEY MIKE'S SUBS .. STONE COLD CREAMERY ICE CREAM ... CHIPS ... SOFT DRINKS All PROCEEDS GO TO THE AMERICAN RED CROSS FOR HURRICANE RELIEF ... PARTY STARTS AT 10:30... GAME AT 11 MINIMUM DONATION ... $10.00 
(Donation does not include admission to HOF museum. No admission fee is required to enter Jersey Mike's) 
GET A GROUP TOGETHER AND JOIN US ... HELP A GREAT CAUSE AND HAVE A GREAT TIME ... 

and say. 'I rnmmnbnr when I got heat up.' But people rnmnmber 
NI·:W YOHK -To Af'rican­being nPglnctnd, unimportant, AmPri!·ans, llurricarw Katrina overlooked, thought of' as 'less has lu•ronw a gnrwrat.ion-dnlining than.' That's a very common ratasl.rophP -a disast!'l' with a expPrimlc!~ f(>r black pnople." pn•dominantly blark loll, ling~~d Some 71 pnrcnnt of' blacks say wilh racism. Tlwy'w rallil'd to tlw thn disastnr shows that racial 1·.ausP with an tiiiJli'I'!'PdPntPd out­inequality n•mains a nH~jor prob­pouring of' activism and gnrwrosi­lem in America, according to a ly. survey by tlw Pew Hesnarr.h 
Bhl!'ks who haw hnnn tourhml C!mter fin· tlw People &. the Pn~ss, by thP disastPI' an• nol. only donat­mnd ueted Sept. 6-7 among 1,000 ing moru•y but gatlwring supplins, Anwricans; 56 pPrcent of' whites taking in f'riPnds and rPlal.iws, f'onl this was not a particularly PVPn lu~ading soulh to lwlp shoul­important losson. dPr thP burdl'n of' tlwir pnop!P. And whilo 66 percent of blacks 
"You'd haw l.o go bark to slav­think the government's response Pry, or· thP burning of' blark towns, would have been !'aster if most of' to find a romparabln PVPIIt that tho victims had bnen white~. 77 has alTnrtnd black pnopln this percent of' whites disagmed. way," said l>arrwll M. llunt, a On Thursday, first lady Laura sociologist and ]wad of' the Bush said it was "disgusting" that Al'riran Anwrinw studies depart.­critics blamed her husband's poli­nu•nt at UClA cies for the racial disparities 
Irtho rnscue pfJ'ort had not bonn between hurricane survivors. In so mishandlnd, and if' those who an interview with American suf'f'pr·ed so rwNilessly had not Urban Hadio Networks, she said 
hnPn so blark and  tlw homos of' the  
so  poor, 1wrhaps  poor  were  more  
llurric.ano Katrina would have lwen just anotlwr destructive storm,  ''I've never seen a bigger outpouring oflove and giving. "  vulnerable to the storm and "that's what we want to address."  
alongsido tlw likes  Many evenl"> have  
of' Charley and Androw and llugo. But Katrina's  Russell Simmons hlp-hop mogul  transfixed African­Americans: the Hodney King and  
snaring images  - 0 ..1. Simpson cases,  
linking  nature's  the killings of icons  

wrath and tho nation's wrongs­from Martin Luther King Jr. to have fanned tlw smoldering Tupae Shakur, the crack coeaine resentments of' the eivil rights, epidPmie, the Clarence Thomas Heaganomie and hip-hop eras all confirmation hearings. at once. But Katrina is different. It has 
"Something about this is mak­opened people's eyes -"The ing poopl11 rnmember their own faee, the cover has been pulled off personal injustices," said author the invisible poor," said Rev. damali ayo, whose book "I low to Honald E. Braxton of Metropolitan 
Hent a Negro" takes a satirical African Methodist Episcopal look at race rdations. Church in Washington, D.C. ­"You don't look at Hodney King and it has created a rare opportu­
nity f<n· pm>pln of all backgrounds to make a tangible, immediate difl'ernnen. 
Braxton spoke as Iris congrega­tion loaded a SO-foot tractor-trail­or with antaeid. diapers. food, water and other supplies dnstined f'or AMH churches in Jackson, Miss. and Baton Hougn, La. 
Bnfim~ Independence Air volun­tnered to lly tlw supplies to tlw hurricane zone, Braxton turned away volunteers willing to drivn 22 hours to Baton Houge. In addi­tion, he said, his church raised $20,000 last Sunday alone to send to the national AME relief efl(ll'L 
Individuals have also stepped up. Kimberly Lowe of' Philadnlphia signed up on that dty's Web site to host an evacuee in a sparn bedroom. 
"They just probably want to talk to regular folks and be in a real home," Lowe said. "There's noth­ing like being home." 
Katrina has spurred other blacks to take crucial roles in relief ell'orts -and they're in a better position to help than they were even a decade ago, when rap still scared people and being paid $30 million per year to play basketball was beyond imagina­tion. 
Now billionaire Mississippi native Oprah Winfrey is bringing her top-rated show to the Katrina zone, famed attorney Willie Gary is planning to transport victims in his 737 jet, and rapper Kanye West can excoriate President Bush's response to the hurricane in front of a nationwide audience. 
Tavis Smiley has devoted much or his television talk show to Katrina. 
''I've seen black folk come together around any number of issues. It's usually either a head or a heart issue," he said. "For example, we came together after the election of 2000, when Bush essentially stole the election. That was a head issue. Pnopln wnre mad. Other issues hit our hearts; 
O.J. Simpson comes to mind." 
With Katrina, "our head is say­ing we know that what happennd here is wrong ... and our hearts at the same time go out to these peo­ple because we know, we l'ePI their pain." 
Many want to share it. 
Hip-hop hitmaker Timbaland said that he is renting trueks, buy­ing dothes and toys and hPading "to the trenches" -first stop, the Houston Astrodome. He chal­lenged peers who splurge on jew­elry and ears to do the same, because "these people in the dome listen to our music." 
"Don't give to no Red Cross, that's the easy way. Not to say anything bad about the Red Cross, but who knows where that money's going," the producer said. "Take your money and do your own thing." 
Timbaland estimated he was spending several hundred thou­sand dollars, up there with Diddy and .lay-Z's half-million each. Tlw donation of' time, monoy and frnn performances by hip-hopp!'rs is a watorshed f(w what had bncomo a largely apolitical genre. 
"This is the most devastating thing to their community they've seen in their lil'etinw," said tho original hip-hop mogul, Bussell Simmons. ''I've never seen a big­ger outpouring of' love and giving. I've never seen anything liko it." 
There is another mason Katrina resonatos. Most blacks havo fami­ly from "down South," a sort of' symbolic womb from whieh black America slowly wont iL'i separate ways. 
"We are a population in this country of blaek people, but do we feel like a community'?" said ayo, the author. "What really makes a community?" 
Shared expnriences, perhaps? 
"I think this is on11," ayo said. Katrina "is at the enntral eorn of black eulturn and American eul­ture ... I hope this is a turning point of some kind, a turning point for creating a largnr com­munity." 

. g~
Catholics and Contraception: 
Audmr: An~~~~:=c:~.T. 
l.eslic Woodcock Tender. Catholic U:nlve~·sity ofAmerica 
Cumm<:nmtflrs: ' 
lJna C..a<lcgan. Universify of Dayton Maura Ryan, Univenlt:y of None Dame 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAMEc 
THE OBSERVER 


IEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, September 9, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
PO. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Norre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Pat Leonard Paula Garcia 
AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AssT. MANAGING EDITOR! Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDITOR! Mike Gilloon SCENE EDITOR! Rama Gottumukkala SAINT l\1ARY's EDITOR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDITOR! Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDITOR! Graham Ebetsch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CoNTROLLER: Jim Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR! Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EotTOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
News DEsK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.1@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

Ad does not represent Notre Dame 
Notre Dame sells itself. Its distinctive reputation, built on 163 at the Grotto -it's disappointing Notre Dame chose not to show years of tradition, does its own recruiting-from the thousands of any of them in favor of filming a single prospective student in applicants who annually seek admission to the numerous donors New Jersey. who daily pledge their dollars to the school's enhancement. The University also says the ad aims to attract a particular type 
So advertising for the University should be a no-brainer. Right? of student -one who believes strongly in prayer and in uniting 
Apparently not, judging by Notre Dame's latest "institutional faith with academics. But that student doesn't need to see a com­spot" -the 30-second television commercial that debuted during mercial to recognize Notre Dame's Catholic identity -that stu­last Saturday's nationally televised football game against dent has likely been wearing blue and gold since diapers. The Pittsburgh. Titled "Candle," the ad features a prospective student point of an advertisement is to lure those who weren't previously repeatedly lighting candles in church to pray for admission to interested in what is being sold to take a second look. By narrow­Notre Dame. At the end of the spot, her prayers are ing its focus so intensely on one already well-answered with the arrival of her coveted "big enve­o}jhe known aspect of the University's offerings, the lope," and she looks to the heavens in thanks as the server al "Candle" ad fails to target students -lor example, school's name and the words "A Higher Education" • anyone non-white or non-Catholic -who may appear onscreen. have assumed Notre Dame isn't the place for them
Editon 
The University says the ad emphasizes a faith­but whom a more multidimensional ad could have based education to show Notre Dame's d.iflerence convinced. from other NCAA Division I schools. And the ad accomplishes that Finally, the ad's treatment of Catholici<>m undermines the very goal-but not in the way Notre Dame intended. · uniqueness it is trying to emphasize. True faith requires a lot 
No other school could appear so one-dimensional ifit tried. more than lighting matches and waiting for prayers to be 
Yes, Notre Dame is the nation's premiere Catholic university, answered. The ad's unsophisticated portrayal of religion detracts reflected on the crucifix-dotted walls of its classrooms, the col­from the potentially clever phrase "A Higher Education"-words lared necks of its administrators, the towering face of its library. that ring especially hollow considering the constant and complex But it is also a Top 20 academic institution, a perennial Directors debates, here and elsewhere, about the role and nature of a truly Cup contender and an unmatched campus for tradition-filled stu­Catholic university. dent residence life. By excluding these aspects of Notre Dame's With a season's worth of network television football broadcasts multidimensional identity from a widely exposed advertisement, still to go, Notre Dame has time to reconsider its choice. Those the University is hurting itself. charged with producing the ad should reflect on all of the things 
It's not the ad's overwhelming Catholicism that's the problem. It the University is proud to offer, and take a walk around campus would be equally foolish to run a 30-second spot that focused only for inspiration. Then they should create a replacement spot that on the football team. reflects the multidimensional reality that defmes Notre Dame ­
With so many powerful campus images to choose from -the and air it for the rest of the season. Dome, the Basilica, Notre Dame Stadium, dorm events, pep ral­Notre Dame is more than just Catholic. And a school that sells lies, tailgates, classrooms and yes, lighting candles in a chapel or itself shouldn't sell itself short. 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports. I @nd.edu SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l@nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoro@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONLINE www .ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by _the students ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's C'..ollege. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The Observer reserves the right ro refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views of r~e authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observerpolicies should be directed to F.ditor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) ia: published Mond>~.y through Friday except during exam and vaottion periods. Asub~ription to The Ob~rv~r is $100 for one academic yeat; $SS fu~ une semestet. 
11tc Ob.$C'rvcr ls published at:: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining H;~ll Send ~ddti!S5 corn:ctiuns to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556..0179 Tht: Observer 
l'criodical post;~gc paid at Notre o~ P.O. Box 779 
and additioml mailing offices. 024 SoUEh Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 4655(>..0n9 
"The Observer is a mernbc:r of the ~ociarcd Pte!i!O. All reproduction rights are toctvcd. 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Nicole Zook Matt Puglisi Maddie Hanna Kevin Brennan Karen Langley Tom Dorwart 
Jenny Hames Scene Viewpoint Chris McGrady 
Sarah Falvey Graphics Kelly MacDonald 

A tale of two Notre Dam_e graduates 
Despite my personal political leanings, my friends come from opposite ends of the political spectrum and include Democrats, Republicans, Independents and Libertarians. It just so happens that two of my closest Notre Dame alumni friends have been quite active since Hurricane Katrinia devastated the Gulf coast area. One is a Republican former special opera­tions military veteran from Atlanta, the other a peace activist and liberal Democrat from Kansas. 
These two Notre Dame graduates could not be more unlike each other except for a common undergraduate alma matter. My Atlanta friend brags of his covert past and at times still bullies his way through business dealings with veiled threats and an air of intimidation. My Kansas friend is a writer who can unceasingly spout off one joke after another and compares his anti Vietnam protest days with his current peace movement activities. Each has carved out a homestead on opposing mountaintops, yet each has put life on hold to assist homeless evacuees. 
My Atlanta friend owns interests in sev­eral business ventures with many employ­ees and has holdings of vast warehouses containing large equipment such as cranes, generators, air conditioners, portable lighting fixtures and a fleet of vehicles. Following Katrinia's devastation, he quickly secured special transportation permits, including state police escorts, and led one of many convoys to the disas-

Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 

ter area. He is equipped with satellite telephones and has set up his base of operations in Alabama. 
Upon his arrival during his initial visit to the stricken area, he donated a generator and air conditioner to a hospital where trapped patients were sweltering in oppressive beat. On his second visit he was disappointed to learn that while the air conditioner was operational, the hos-pita! wing's temperature was registering at only 82 degrees. A nurse comforted him by saying, "It was a humid 102 degrees, and each day it gets slightly cool­er. This is a big relief. Thank you." 
His other priority is to rescue a priest in Louisiana who was trapped with others in his church. My Atlanta friend did not say how he contacted the priest, but noted that the group was isolated and feared for their safety. The former commando explained that prior to his departure from Georgia, he bought several guns and ammunition to fortifY the church if neces­sary. Jokingly he quipped that he now qualified as a one-man militia. 
Half a continent away, my Kansas class­mate took a different approach to the res­cue efforts. Unlike the Atlanta alumnus who dove head frrst into the disaster area, the Kansas alumnus and a prominent local attorney organized their own mini­eflort to assist evacuees who were headed for Oklahoma. They attained a truckload of bottled water through their local soft drink bottling plant owner and then organized a new goods contribution cam­paign from local businesses. They too led a convoy south. 
My Kansas friends sidestepped both the Red Cross and emergency management agencies during their project. They rea­soned that it was better to have a moving 
van full of goods sitting next to a shelter 
staging area for possible use. ra,thel,' th<m 
'· to have a' shortage of goods. To tiieii · ' · · amazement, others had had the same bold strategy, and each truckload nicely complemented the overall effort to assist evacuees. The relief shelters took on an atmos­ph ere of shock, despair and hope. My friend described the dramatic effect the experience had on him as "conflicted." On one side of the room someone was franti­cally trying to find a family member while on the other side another rejoiced at news that a relative had been found alive. The beaten, weary brows of adults contrasted to the energetic, bright eyes of their chil­dren. The dazed sorrow of some clashed with the euphoric joy of others. . . Interestingly, both of my Notre Dame friends mentioned to me similar conver­sations with those affected by the hurri­cane's devastation, that a common social thread ran through their experiences. At some point during their interactions with others, the fact became clear that they had graduated from Notre Dame. Both reported that several Alabama, Mississippi and Louisiana State University football fans then pledged to cheer for Notre Dame. Both graduates, in their own way, replied, "It's just something Notre Dame does." 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a polit­ical strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. lie can be contacted at hottline@aol.com 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
OBSERVER POLL 
What are you doing to help with Hurricane Katrina relief? 
a. 
Hosting evacuees 

b. 
Volunteer 

c. 
Nothing 

d. 
Donate money, food and ilems 


*Poll appears courtesy of NDToday.com and is based on 187 responses. 


tSubmit atetter 1
lto tbf Editor at ~ 
~ www.ndsmcobserver.com r 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Always bear in mind that your own resolution to succeed is more important than any one thing." 
Abraham Lincoln former president 

--------------------------------------------------------~-~-~--­

THE OBSERVER 
IEWPOINT
Friday, September 9, 2005 
Calling the U.S. to take genocide seriously 
One year ago today, then-Secretary of State Colin Powell dedarnd the atrocities in Darfur tantamount to genocide. It was a histork deelaration that gave many around the world hop•~ that the United States would not stand on the sidelines once again as genocide ensued. Yet, one year has passed and that hope has subsided with lack of action by the U.S. governmnnt and international com­Peter munity. Thnrn is still time, though, for the Quaranta and United States to rnnnergize that hope and • Patrick ad to sav•~ lives. Corrigan 
The atrocities in Darfur rage on as more than two million pnople are displaced and Guest anothnr two million require humanitarian Columnists assistanee. Sincn 2003, it is estimated that bdween HO,OOO and 400,000 people have been killed. In the same time, tens of thousands of women have been brutally rapnd and villages have been dmnolished in a systematic cam­paign eondueted by government and militia forces. 
The Unitml Statns has much to contribute in bringing an end to the horror in Darfur. First, the government can provide incrnas•~d logistieal, financial and diplomatic support to the t\frkan Union mission in Darfur to protect civilians. In addi­tion, high-levnl nngagnnwnt and linandal support will pro­mote and nnnrgizn the Darfur peace negotiations. Finally, the rngion rnquires a eontinued and increased commitment to dnaling with tlw humanitarian erisis created by the atrocities. Thn current administration has shown that none of these steps will bn implemented without sustained pressure by concerned citizens. 
The tragic disaster in the Gulf Coast demands our immediate and urgent atteption; however, that attention need not negate eontinued foeus and engagement to the human disaster that continues to kill in Sudan. These attacks on human life­whetlwr caused by humans or nature, whether in our back­yards or an ocnan away-call us to aflirm the sanctity of life and act to defend it. This is a calling that we cannot ignore any longer. 
Today, we are joining the voices of thousands of Arnerieans asking the Bush Administration to make human life in Darfur a priority. We urge you to join in by calling your reprel?enta­tivns and especially the White House today at 202-456'-1414. Together, let's eall the U.S. to take genocide seriously and act aeeordingly. 
Peter Quaranto is the director of the Uganda Conflict Action Network. Patrick Corrigan is the leader ofthe Sudan Steering Committee. Contact Peter at pquarant@nd.edu and Patrick at pcorriga@n d. edu 
l'lte t•iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
page ll 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Argument hypocritical 
This country, though rooted in Judeo-Christian morality, is secular. Though recent rulings of the Supreme Court may imply otherwise, speeifie reli­gious beliefs and Arneriean law should not be inter­twined. 
With this in mind, I'd like to ask Gregory Pio ("Liberal, examine thyselr' Sept. 7) to step down from his soapbox and ask him why it makes the least bit of dilferenee whether or not Mario Cuomo's, John Kerry's, or John Roberts' political ideals come from beliefs of religion, natural law or the U.S. Constitution. They have their ideals. That is enough. 
Sinee Pio is so opposed to rape (as well he should bel what happens to his stanee on abortion when rape come into the picture'? If the 14-year-old New Orleans rnfugee who was raped in the Superdome last week bneame pregnant, should she be morally or legally obligated to carry the ehild to term and givn birth to it? 
I am always repulsed at the audacity of those who think that the government has the power to tell women (and girls) what they are allowed to do with their bodies based on a religious belief. Should this 14-year-old girl who has lost her home, all her pos­sessions and h~ sense of seeurity, only to be violated in the most intimate way, be forced to carry a con­stant reminder of the trauma for nine months? How ean she, or her family, support such a child'? 
If your solution is adoption, what of her life in school for the next year'? What of the dangers to her health that any fully grown adult woman nnnd be conscious or? Oh, you say, there ean be an "nxeep­tional circumstances" exemption in your ideal anti­abortion law'? Who will dncide what qualilies m; an exemption'? llow etm any one person or even legisla­tive body makn that decision for someone else's lifi~'? 
Pio is also eager to point out th•~ hypoerisy of liber­als' aceeptanee of abortion in the facn of their per­sonal rnligious eonvictions, but he has to look no fur­ther than his own argument to find another nxample of that hypocrisy. lie himsnlf states: "I opposed abor­tion before I was Catholic", asserting that his posi­tion on abortion is independent of his Catholic faith. !fit is so easy for Pin to separate the two in his per­sonal bdief system, why does he assume that Catholie liberals are too "morally crippled" to do the same'? 
Pio has asked me to examine mysnlf. I have done so, and am completely satisfied with what I see. Now I have a rnquest of him: spray some Wind ex on your glass walls before you throw your next stone. 
Anne Macrander 
senior 
Badin! !all Sept. 7 

Don't blame the Legion 

Don't blame the Legion for the word "sueks" 
I must really be bored here in Alabama, where I am working for the ACE program, because I'm actually taking the time to respond to what some­one said about the Leprechaun Legion. However, I was looking through The Observer Web site today, to remember how much fun college was, when I ran across some comments from Kelly Jordan, a Faculty Senate Committee Member. 
Jordan said he didn't like the vulgarity of the Legion, especially when the section says the dreaded "S" word during opposing player intro­ductions. When a player is announced for the opposing team, students have yelled "Sucks" loudly. I was never one of those people, although I still don't get how students are allowed to yell "Kill" during football cheers, but can't say "sucks" at any time. Ever. 
Either way, I spent a lot of time helping 1to cre­ate and sustain the Legion, so I figured I'd help Jordan understand some of the facts about the Lngion. First, the "Sucks" cheer was here years bnfore the Legion arrived. We started the Legion during the middle of the 2002 season and stu­dents were already yelling "sucks." So, please don't blame the Legion for conceiving this jeer. 
Second, we aetually have worked with sports promotions to have students refrain from yelling the word. We have brought newspapers to most games in hopes that students wouldn't yell that word. However, it's hard to eontrol 3,000 stu­dents. Despite the diflicult odds, we felt at the end of last season, many students were beginning to stop chanting the "S" word. 
Third, if you didn '.t know, Mr. Jordan, the Legion donated almost $3,000 to Coaches vs. Cancer last season, thanks to our public shirt sales which reached more than 2,HOO shirts. This season, the new president expeets to sell more shirts and therefore give more money to charity. We also kept zero dollars from our sales. 
So I ean understand that you don't want your child to hear the word "sucks." At the same time, it's not fair of you to aeeuse the Legion of starting or trying to continue such behavior. Frankly, it's not our fault. Instead of being a hazard at Notre Dame basketball games, the Legion has raisnd money for charity whiln helping to give the Irish a home court advantage. So plnase understand the facts before you bash somnone or something else. 
The author ofthis letter was Assistant Manag­ing Editor ofThe Observer from 2004-05. 
Joe Hettler 
alumnus 
class of 'OS 
Sept. 8 

Ad trivializes faith 
I never thought I would see a clip such as the one shown during the Notre Dame vs. Pittsburg game last weekend. The eommercial, which the Office of News and Information and Matt Storin believe to show the University as a "serious place for learning and faith," is an insult to anyone who has ever put their faith in prayer. It is an outrage to think that the University would allow such a clip. 
It trivializes the faith and its most important con­duit to God, prayer. To let Hudy pray at the grotto for admission is one thing-that's Hollywood. Twelve thousand students apply to get into here and I guarantee most of them spent a lot of time praying for admittance. Does God not hear the prayers of the 8,000 who didn't get in, or could it be that those who got in made it with credentials of academic excellence and a dedication to their com­munity through service and activity. Of all the peo­ple that helped make this film I wonder if anyone asked the theology department what they thought. As a theology major, we laugh in class at the thought of people praying at the Grotto for an Irish victory or that one might do well on a test. 
This video sends an awful message to people like my brother who did not get in. "You should have prayed harder and maybe God would have lis­tened. You should have gone to your ehureh and prayed during every season of thn year." This video does not speak of a "Higher Education" it speaks of a false sense that prayer will get you anything and that admittance to Notre Dame is dependent on your devotion to God. 
I'm sorry that I did not pray enough for my brother down at the Grotto. I will make a note of that for the next four siblings that I have that look for admittance here, and J will tell them to drop their books and pray. If this video is airnd during the Michigan game you will be insulting the faith of many and trivializing the meaning of prayer. 
John Kearney 
senior 
ofl~campus 
Sept. 8 
THE OBSERVER 

CENE
page 12 
Friday, September 9, 2005 
DPAC REVIEW 

'Crash' is a course in stunning cinema 
By BRIAN DOXTADER and MOLLY 
GRIFFIN 
Assistant Scene Editors 

Brian: Every once in a while there is a film destined to be a sleeper classic, like "Memento" or "The Usual Suspects." These films often come from talented directors who have made an impression and are on the verge of fulfilling their potential. Paul Haggis, who wrote last year's Best Picture Oscar winner "Million Dollar Baby," is such a director. 
In "Crash." his directorial debut, he has made a film that is not only an incisive portrait of racial tensions, but the best American film of the year so far. 
Haggis has proven himself a great screenwriter, but the directorial panache on display in "Crash" is still a little star­tling. He juggles intertwining storylines and balances a talented ensemble cast perfectly, almost out-mastering the mas­ter, Robert Altman. Like that director's 1993 film "Short Cuts." "Crash" follows the seemingly unrelated but ultimately intersecting lives of various Los Angeles residents. The differences in the attitudes and backgrounds of the characters are immediately evident, ranging from poor black ghetto residents to a rich white dis­trict attorney. Race, gender and economic disparity all play major roles as the char­acters develop over the course of the film. 
There are some dazzlingly effective moments in "Crash," particularly a mid­film car crash and the scene that appears on the movie poster. Haggis' pacing and control is excellent, especially for a first­time director. Additionally, his sense of drama (in some cases, melodrama) and character interaction is pointedly ,effec­tive. The film's sense of build-up and pay­off is unparalleled in its logic and execu­tion, and each situation resolves itself in ways that are often unexpected, but somehow perfectly right. 
Additionally, Haggis' ear for dialogue is perfect. All of the characters have distinct voices and personalities, and none are played for type, not even the fast-talking African-American carjacker (rapper Luducris, who is surprisingly talented) nor the corrupt, racist police officer (Matt Dillon, in the best performance of his career). Each of them have reasons for acting the way they do, and while those reasons may not be entirely justified, nei­ther can they be simply dismissed. 
"Crash" is alive in ways that few movies can be. Though the subject matter and its presentation is often quite harsh, it's not as darkly depressing as "Million Dollar Baby," which is actually one its strongest facets. Most of the characters arrive at an epiphany of some sort before the film's conclusion, and the film ends on a hope­ful note. "Crash" is not as directly didactic as might be expected, but Haggis' mes­sage is clear: If these characters, with all their hate and prejudice, can learn to simplistic, two-sided debates, but change, why can't we? "Crash" refuses to give into stereotypes 

or expected endings. 
Molly: Los Angeles is a city of con­The film uses cars and car \accidents trasts. It is at the same time vastly as symbols of the sudden violence with wealthy and the center of extreme which racial issues can erupt. In a multi­poverty, naturally cultural place like beautiful and a con-LA, racial tensions crete jungle and a seethe beneath the place where dreams Crash surface of the city come to be fulfilled and it just takes or to be painfully one quick impact to extinguished. The cause huge dramas
••••4',movie "Crash" man­to arise. ages not only to Director: Paul Haggis Cars in Los reveal the binary Starring: Sandra Bullock, Don Angeles are much opposites that give Cheadle, Matt Dillon, Jennifer more than just a Los Angeles its char­Esposito, Ryan Phillippe means of trans­acter, but also uses Showtimes: Friday, September 9, portation. They are the city and its trou­2005, at 7:00 pm and 10:00 pm a symbol of class, bles to make a Saturday, September 10, 2005, at 7:00 status and self. A greater commentary pm and 10:00 pm car superficially about the society in represents the peo­which we live. ple who drive it, 
"Crash" focuses on racial prejudices, and thus stealing a car or crashing it has but not the simple and stereotypical con­a great symbolic impact. Thusly, cars are flicts that one would expect. Tension an apt representation of the city and the between African-American, Caucasian, shifting torrent of emotions within it. Hispanic, Arabic, Asian and other racial The extreme irrationality of racism is groups is intermingled with the idea of one of the most important focuses of the how class changes all of these identities. film. Jean Cabot (Sandra Bullock) goes Racial issues can easily be made into on a tirade after her car is stolen by two black men, but she focuses her rage on the Hispanic locksmith who she hires to protect her. An Arabic immigrant, Farhad (Shaun Toub) becomes so dis­traught after his insurance won't cover a robbery, he attempts to kill an innocent worker he blames for the event. 
Another interesting element is how Americans' attempts to be politically correct and conceal feelings can lead to greater tension and problems. The sensi­tive and politically correct Officer Hanson (Ryan Phillipe) requests a new partner after Sgt. Ryan (Matt Dillion) harasses an African-American woman after stopping her for speeding. When it comes down to a final life-or-death choice involving people of other races, though, Sgt. Hyan redeems himself and Officer Hanson commits a horrific act. 
The i~portance of actions over words is a huge part of the film, and it com­ments on the fact that while words are hurtful, the final actions that we take ·under pressure reveal our true charac­ters. Anthony (Chris "Ludacris" Bridges) constantly discusses how young African­American men are stereotyped by Caucasian society while simultaneously fulfilling such societal prejudices. l-Ie feels entitled and blames society for his own actions, but ultimately finds con­tentment after realizing that some peo­ple in society even have it worse than he does. 
The differences betwoon people in "Crash" ultimately boil down not only to racial differences but to the same basic human emotions of fear, resentment and loneliness. Haec is just a medium through which people express their frus­tration in their lives, and the film reveals that humans have much more in com­mon with one another than the tensions within society would reveal. Class and attempting to fulfill certain societal expectations are more to blame than race alone. 
"Crash" is not a movie to go see to escape reality for a few hours. If any­thing, the film creates a greater sense of awareness. As the actors and actresses peform masterfully, the movie truly seems to open our eyes not only to the racial tensions that lie at the heart of our American society, but also reveals a great deal about the difficulties of com­munication and personal interaction in American society. The film can be diffi­cult to watch because parts of it are almost too real and show distinctly unpleasant sides of our own humanity. It is a film, however, that is immensely entertaining, interesting and that will be discussed long after the credits have rolled. 
Contact Brian Doxtader at bdoxtade@nd.edu and Molly Griffin at 
mgriffin@n~.edu 


I. 
Photo courtesy of movieweb.com Photo courtesy of movieweb.com 

Officer Thomas Hansen, played by Ryan Phillippe, struggles to be a "good cop" Anthony, played by Chris "Ludacris" Bridges (right), sells a car he stole. despite the political pressure and racism that surround him. Bridges' character is fueled by the stereotypes that exist in racially diverse LA. 
THE OBSERVER 
CENE
Friday, September 9, 2005 
page 13 
VIDEO GAME REVIEW 
Bahnan Begins can't quite soar 

1\y JOSH TALLEY 
Scrnr Writrr 
Many eonsider the original Batman film. direetml by Tim Burton. a eontem­porary ~~lassie, hut it may soon be sur­passed by llw Dark Knight's current inr.arnation in Chris Nolan's "Batman Begins." 
But twtm though Batman Begins is, in this r:nviewpr's humble opinion. an excnllnnt film. this Batman gan'w nneds some major improvemnnts. Whiln this ganw is I00 pPrcent Batman, it fails to transcend the norms of action games and fails to be all it t:an be as both a supnrlwro and a Batman ganw. 
This game dons follow the film fairly faithfully. It n1wnr takes hugn libnrties with tlw 1wnnts in thn movie. But, it has lwen tweaked slightly to makn it more acreptahl1~ as a video game. Like the movie, the game follows Batman's can scare tho others badly 1mough that they conw elosn to passing out from fear. This addition to the game is an enjoy­able one. but it eould have been done dill'erently. The game is extremely linear, usually only oiTering one way in which to seare your oppononts. 
While there arn no major 11aws, there is also nothing spoctacular about the game. It does get a little tiring to see the same I 0 generic thugs over and over again. The in-game movins usn the same quality or rendering as game-play, but l'ilm footage is incorporated into the game fairly well. The audio work is well above average. The ambient noises in tlw game make it believable that are actually in the game and are creeping through a st1mm lillnd subterranean cor­ridor. Also, the voice acting is superb, with all the principal actors voicing their eharat:ters (save the glaring omission of Gary Oldman). The sound cfl'eets quality of the game is also well done, providing 
first attnmpts at Batman Begins that little extra to lwing thn Caped makn the gamn feel Crusadnr. It starts ·' more complete. out in Arkham or course, since Asylum, but then this game is based
···~/::
moves into flash­off of the latest
Developer: Electronic Arts hacks whieh lead Batman movie,
ESRB Rating: T -Teen 
hack into the begin­there is no multi­
Consoles: X-box, Playstation 2, 
ning of the game, playor option. This
GameCube, Gameboy Advanced 
and then continues on to the finale. This change in setting and back story crnatns a littln dnpth for the charaeter and providns pnopln who haven't seen this movie a chancn to undnrstand what is going on. During game-play you are a1~companiml with Bruen Wayne's eon!i­dant and frinnd Alfred. Alfrnd oll'ers you advke and tells you of the goals to come in the lnvel. Thnrn arn two kinds of mis­sions in the game, the first in which you play as Batman searching for r.lues to forward the plot and fighting oil' various villains, and the sm:ond in which you drivn tho Batmobile around Gotham City d1asing had guys and escaping from the policn. Tlw game's I 0 to 15 hours of garnn play arnn't amazing, but arn the lwst of any other in thn Batman serins. 
Wlwn you play as Batman, one of the major points of the game is striking fear into the hnarts of your 1m1~mies in order to makn thnm llustered and confusnd. Tlw ganw takes a rnalistic approach to Batman this time in thn fact that you t:an't rush through the game like Hambo. Onn guy with a gun is more than sum­dent to ruin nven the Dark Knight's day. You havn to use the gamn's onvironrnont to scaro your prey to frighten them out of using tlwir woapons. Also, by taking out the strongest opponents (i.e. the ones with weapons or giving orders) you isn't a huge problem 
though, because the stnalth style of the game is better situat­ed for a single player. The controls to the game are simplistic at best. While com­bat is a large part of the game, the play­er essentially has an attaek button and a dodge button at his disposal. Also, Batman's gadgets are simplified in the game as woll because you ean only use them when you arc near an enemy and in eombat or when your opponnent is already seared. You can't just use them like you think Batman really would, but have to follow the poorly designed item engine in the game. 
There aren't too many speeial features in the game. Once tho game is complet­ed, you have unlocknd alternate Batman costumes from past incarnations of the Caped Crusader. While interesting, it does nothing to change the gameplay. Also, you can unlock both of the Batmobile levels so that you can play them as a stand alone mission or as a time attack. While fun the first few times, it gets old rather quickly. 
This game is the best Batman game to date, and the best supnrhero game of tho year so far. This game does not com­pare to the superhero game "Spider­man 2," hut it is still worth a rent. 
Contact Josh Talley at jtalley2@nd.edu 
NOTRE DAME'S BEST... ,.~~ 
PHOTOS BY THE OBSERVER 

Music students can take a moment to relax from a strenuous reheanal on this confortable plaid sofa in Crowley Hall. 


· .. L"rJ,· 

.. ·:.l(, .::-..i-' ·. . ·.~ .......·....... ··~ .-.. '•.'·:·. 
Wsth some iogeouity and engiOft'l'ing skills, a lwnmock lets you nap in tropial style 00 the quad. 

W"Jtb tlutt couches to choose from, architecture 5tudents can ~amoog the pe.riodiaJs in this room oo the second floor of the Bond I...ibrary­
I 
F«-,..,.,a;-an: lhe-....,.011 campus? -Send your~ lO obspholo@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, September 9, 2005 
MLB -AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Indians move into wild card lead with victory 
Angels' Byrd shuts down Red Sox in 3-0 win; Yankees fall 7-4 to Devil Rays, trail Boston by 4 games in AL East 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND -As if waving some magic wand, Kevin Millwood makes the most frightening situations disap­pear. 
One instant, the bases are loaded. The next, it's presto­chango, abracadabra and alakazam -inning over for the Cleveland Indians. Another head-scratching escape. 
"It was like, 'Did I just see that?' Detroit manager Alan Trammell said. "We've got the bases loaded and we're all excited. Seconds later ... Wow!" 
Millwood kept it close for five nerve-racking innings before Aaron Boone hit a two-run homer and Casey Blake and Coco Crisp hit solo shots as the Indians moved into the AL wild-card lead with a 4-2 win over the Detroit Tigers on Thursday. 
Boone's homer off Nate Robertson (6-13) tied it 2-2 in the fifth inning before Blake and Crisp connected in the sixth. Cleveland's last 15 runs have all come via homers. 
The Indians, who have won four in a row and 12 of 14, moved a half-game ahead of the New York Yankees, who lost to Tampa Bay 7-4. It's the first time this year the Indians have been alone in the lead, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. 
"We're playing as good as anyone right now," Millwood said. 
Cleveland's three homers ­the Indians have 31 in their last 16 games -wouldn't have meant anything, though, if not for Millwood's tenacity. The right-hander made two Houdini-like escapes, wiggling out of jams in the first and third innings when the Tigers had a chance to blow it open. 
Millwood's knack for dodging trouble is nothing new, with opponents 0-for-16 against him with the bases full. He allowed one earned run and seven hits while throwing 110 pitches in five innings. 
"It's nothing like I've ever seen," Indians manager Eric Wedge said of Millwood's abili-
CLASSIFIEDS 

ty to elude danger. "He throws 60 pitches in the first couple innings and did nothing but get • much stronger. He's tough. It wasn't like it was just today, either, he's been doing that all year." 
Millwood would obviously prefer more 1-2-3 innings, but they've been rare for him this season. 
"It hasn't been easy," said Millwood, who has the lowest run support (3.23 runs in 26 starts) in the AL. "But I've been able to keep us in the game and give us a chance to win, that's a starter's job." 
Rafael Betancourt (3-3) pitched 1 2-3 scoreless innings, and Bob Howry struck out Brandon Inge with the bases loaded to end the seventh. Bob Wickman pitched the ninth for his 37th save, matching his career-high set with Milwaukee in 1999. 
Los Angeles 3, Boston 0 
The Los Angeles Angels showed a little emotion and escaped Boston with their AL West lead intact. 
Paul Byrd combined with two stomach-churning relievers to shut out the Red Sox on Thursday night, avoiding a sweep. Los Angeles manager Mike Scioscia and hitting coach Mickey Hatcher were ejected -Scioscia for the second straight night. 
"I think we feed off that," said Byrd, who allowed four hits in seven innings before Scot Shields and Francisco Rodriguez each pitched out of bases-loaded jams. "These games count. That (emotion) is the way it should be." 
Los Angeles, which moves on to play the Central-leading Chicago White Sox, opened a one-game lead over idle Oakland in the AL West after losing the first two games of the series. 
Despite getting shut out for the fourth time this year, the Red Sox maintained a four­game lead in the AL East over the second-place Yankees, who lost to Tampa Bay 7-4. The Red Sox open a three-game series in New York on Friday with the knowledge that they will still be in first when they leave. 

Byrd (11-9) allowed two walks and struck out four in his second consecutive win. He retired 13 straight batters before John Olerud's slow­bouncing infield single to lead off the seventh. 
Matt Clement (13-4) allowed three runs and five hits in 6 2­3 innings, walking two and hit­ting a batter while striking out one. He had won three straight decisions, but also received no decision in five other starts since July 16. 
Tampa Bay 7, New York 4 
Forget about the Boston Red Sox coming to town. The New York Yankees must be thrilled just to see Tampa Bay leaving. 
Carl Crawford hit a two-run double and scored three times, Mark Hendrickson won his fifth straight decision and the Devil Rays held off New York Thursday night for yet another victory over the Yankees. 
"We have to be better. We expect more of ourselves. Tonight is just not acceptable," Alex Rodriguez said. 
Jonny Gomes and Jorge Cantu also drove in two runs apiece, helping the last-place Devil Rays build a 6-0 lead and improve to 11-5 against New York this season. 
The Yankees dropped two of three in this series -not the way they wanted to head into three big games in the Bronx against AL East-leading Boston this weekend. New York remained four games behind the Red Sox but fell a half­game behind Cleveland in the wild-card race. 
"This team tomorrow, they start scoring runs, they don't stop," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. "We need to do a better job of controlling the game than we did tonight." 
New York has lost four con­secutive series against the Devil Rays after dropping only four of the previous 38. 
"You can't say we're embar­rassed because they're major league players, too," Derek Jeter said. "They played better than us. I don't know how many times they beat us, but they deserved to win all of 'em." 
Rookie right-hander Chien­Ming Wang (6-4) returned from a two-month stint on the dis­abled list and lasted five innings: After recovering from inflammation in his right shoulder, he gave up three runs and eight hits, dropping to 0-3 against Hendrickson this year. 
Wang said his shoulder felt fine, but he thought it was a mediocre performance. 
"It looked like he was just trying to get his rhythm in the first inning," Crawford said. 
Danys Baez retired Rodriguez with a runner on to end the eighth, then finished for his 35th save in 42 tries. He has seven saves against New York this year, tying Bobby Thigpen of the Chicago White Sox in 1990 for the most against the Yankees in one sea­son. 
"Fastball right down the mid­dle," Rodriguez said. "I had a great pitch to hit. I didn't come through, and that's not accept­able. I need to do more." 
Hendrickson (9-7) retired 13 straight after Jeter's leadoff single in the first, then ran into trouble in the seventh. But he hung on to improve to 3-0 in four starts against New York this year. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
BABYSITTER­ CLAY TOWNSHIP home.  LODGING FOR FOOTBALL  WANTED:  Wanted:  
WANTED  ND home game days/Other days & nights too. Car rqrd. Call Laura 243­ $65,000. Land contract. Partially furnished 2-3 bdrm  GAMES Visit www.amishcountrybb.org  4-6 MSU GAs together,  2 season tix & parking pass or 2 for any home game.  
4776.  home, basement, garage,  for 24 Quality Bed and Breakfast  Dave 248-760-1767  574-276-8507  
SOCCER REFEREES  fenced yard.  Accommodations.  
...  needed for south side elementary school located near Erskine Golf Course  FoR SALE  Near Clay schools, owner financing & home improvement allowance.  Non-smoking, Private Baths, Full Breakfasts.  BUY SELL OR TRADE ND FOOTBALL TICKETS. TOP$$ PAID .  PERSONAL  
on Miami St.  Brand new full mattress & box.  Includes 1 year home warranty.  GOOD HOUSES IN GREAT  A.M.-232-2378  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  
$35 per soccer game. Call574-291-4200.  Still in plastic. $120. Can deliver. 574-876-4474.  Call 574-250-8552.  NEIGHBORHOODS: andersonNDrentals.com or  P.M. -288-2726  Do not go it alone. If you or someone you love  
LOVE KIDS? Professional Mom needs help picking up children at school and taking them to activities between 3:00-6:00p.m. Monday-Friday.  Queen pillowtop mattress set. New with warranty. $155. Can deliver. 574-231-4522. ND FANS For Sale: Cabin 25 mi.  FoR RENT Blue & Gold Homes. 2-8 bedroom, weekend rentals, furnished, alumni owned. You design lease.  (574)233-9947. TICKETS WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  PLEASE HELP!!! Buying season tix GAs only or any game GAs. Call Mark 277-1659. Will trade my 2 USC tix for 2 MSU. Email BAUMMYMP@AOL.COM  needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. M.L. Gude, esc, at 1-7819. For more information, see our bi­weekly ad in THE OBSERVER.  
Great kids-daughters ages 12-15.  fromND.  Call250-7653.  TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570.  Spring Break 2006.  

Schools and home close to ND and SMC. Call Karen Stonehill at 272-5013. 
Local family looking for part-time babysitter for 2 toddlers. Must love children! References required. Experience a must. Transportation necessary. Call574-247-9213. 

Wooded gated community with lake access. 3 BD 2BAioft, screened porch, FP, $295,000. Call619-606-8815. 
Great Sunnymede area home. Details on line: TIMSHOUSESALE. BLOGSPOT.COM 
2 bedroom home within 
1.5 miles of campus. Partially furnished with extra room, washer/dryer, and kitchen appliances. $750/month. Call574-250-8552. 
1-bdrm apt. Quiet historic neighbor­hood. 1 mi. to ND. $575/mo. Call 283-0325 
FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX. 289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEBSITE FOR $$: www. victory1ickets.com 
BUYING & SELLING ND FOOTBALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES. 273-3911. 
Need USC tickets. Can trade 2 Tenn tix or buy. Call Bill @856-968-4565/ 856-404-1970 
Current Senior needs MSU tickets for family tailgater, willing to buy/trade (have tickets to all other games). Contact Kevin Green at kgreen@nd.edu or (281)635-8346. 
Travel with STS, America s #1 Student Tour Operator to Jamaica, Cancun, Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now hiring on-campus reps. Call for group discounts. Information/Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com 
Sammy Sam Sam 

Friday, September 9, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 15 
u.s. OPEN 
Defending champ Federer tops Nalbandian 
Associated Press 
NJ·:w YOHK Hoger Federer sure knows how to kiII a party. 
11ednrnr's quint brilliancn tranquiliznd U.S. Opnn fans orw night al'tnr thny roarnd nonstop for Andrn Agassi and .Jamns Blakt~. 
Wa t t: h i n g FtHI n r n r, l h n dnl'nnding d1ampion and lop s n tHI , r o II p as t A r gn n li n n David Nalbandian (,-2, 6-4, (,­l Thursday night was likn W a l t: h i II g a r 0 I' U n 0 f' a nwdioern movie that has onn star, no plot and no drama. 
1:ndnrnr was too good -too strong with his servos, too q u it' k w i l h h is rt1 turns, too sharp on his groundstrokns and volloys -to lot tho match hnconw anything morn lhan a prt~dictablo stnp into lhn smnif'inals against Lloyton Howitt. a winner narlier in tlw day in f'ivn sots against Finland's .I arkko Nimn innn. 
Fndnrnr lwat Howitt in the Opnn f'inal last year and has won their last night rnatehes, four in Grand Slam events, going back to the 2004 Australian Open. 
"Maybe we had enough men's tennis over tho last l'ew days," said Fmlernr, the only semifinalist who did not play f'ive sots in the quarters. 
Federer didn't shy away from saying that he couldn't play much bettor than lw did against tho 11th-soeded Nalbandian in a 1-hour, 40­minute swoop. 
"I played groat last year and it's just looking groat again," Federer said. "It's oxaetly the way I should be playing at lhis stage or tour­namont bncausn tho oppo­nonts aro only getting tougher. Tlw rosult roally shows it. l'vo bonn struggling a little bit ovnr tho last l'ew days, but this is a groat rhythm I got against David. I'm surprisod it wont so quick." 
So was Nalbandian. 
"When he plays like this, it's really tough to beat him," Nalbandian said. "That's why ho's No. I in the world and he loses just a l'ew matches dur­ing the year." 
Federer was as enthralled by the Agassi-Biake match as tho fans who stayed past 1 
WD.EN'S 6Dll 
@tiO;l1h lb.W.'I'bl'l:Wfi~U :1t;lfl!XlfD 
NIITBE lAME INIIITJITIIINJIL 
@WARREN BOLlCOURSE FIRST 100 FJJNS JJT THE 18TH BREEN JJT NOON WilL 
RECEIIIE THE 2005-06 (iliais) BOLD BJJMES T-SHIRT 
Hr.t:<·rii,J.!rtdH'IH.. 
Hr~tltr 'P!t.t.a 

a.m. to watch it. 
"I came back from dinner and I thought, 'It's looking 

SOUTH BEND ORTHOPAEDICS 

good for James,' and sudden­ly it turned around," Federer said. "What a thriller. I was up until 1:30 myself. Maybe it wasn't the best preparation, but I enjoyed it." 
Asked about the Agassi­Hobby Ginepri match on Saturday, F!ldnrer he's happy to see two Americans in the semifinal. 
"This doesn't happtm every day so you better enjoy this moment," he said with a sly smile. 
Hewitt, ragged at the start, virtually flawless at the end, dodged danger in yet another five-setter to keep up his bid for a second U.S. Open title. 
The third-seeded Australian, who won the Open in 2001, advaneed with a 2-6, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3, 6-1 victory over the unseeded Nieminen, the first player from Finland to reach a Grand Slam quarter­final. 
Hewitt made only two unforced errors in the fifth set while putting away 15 winners to end the threat !'rom the left-handed 
Thinking about getting your MBA? The University of St. Thomas' relevant, principled, personal approach prepares leaders to make a difference in global business. Come visit us on a college campus near you to learn more about the full-time UST MBA. For dates of our visits, go to 
www.stthomas.edu/mba/recruiting or call (800) 328-6819, Ext. 8800. 
c::;;::;,.
••,, 
UNIVERSITY~{ ST.THOMAS 
MINNESOTA 
Cou.EGE of H1 lSI NEss 
Nieminen. In the first set, Hewitt racked up 16 unforced nrrors. 
"I was just struggling a lit­tle bit with my movemnnt." Hewitt said. "Just felt a step slower, a bit sluggish out there." 
Hewitt seemed flat much of the match. nevnr nven trying to rally himsnll' with his usual cries of "Come on!" after a winner in the first four sets. 
Instead Ninminen generated noise from the crowd, inspir­ing chants of "Let's go, Jarkko!" from fans pulling for an upset by the underdog. 
"I felt that he's not that con­fident on the court because he doesn't show those emo­tions that he's usually show­ing," said Nieminen, who had won only one match in three previous years at the Opnn. "Maybe he was a little bit surprised after the first set." 
An Open semifinalist for the fifth time on a hard court similar to the kind lw grew up on in Adelaidn. Hewitt had come ofT an nasy straight-sets victory against No. 15 Dominik llrbaty in thn fourth round. But Hewitt struggiPd bnl'ore winning a f'ive-settnr against No. 25 Taylor Dm1t in the third round. 
Nimninen racnd rnlnntlnssly in the opnning set, winning the last five games as he retrieved shots that snernnd out of reach. 
Hewitt settled into a rhythm in the second set, winning 19 or 21 points on his way to a 5­
olead. 
II e s e r v n d o u t tlw s n t to even tlw match 1-1, but thnn faded again. Al'tnr thny exchanged the next two sets, Hewitt finally got out of his funk. 
lie broke Ninminen with a crisp l'ornhand pass and lnt loosn a "Comn on!" that now really meant somnthing. 
llnwil.t snrved a 122-mph ace -the l'irst of 10 straight points hn won on stirvt~ -and racnd to a 4-0 lnad. Ninminnn madn one last stand, nndur­ing nine dt~uens before hold­ing servn. 
But llnwitt strnaknd through thn next two gamns, closing out thn match with a volley winner and ynlling "Comn on!" orw last timn. 

page 16 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 9, 2005 
MLB -NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Carpenter dominates Mets for his 21st victory 
Pirates end 10-game home losing streak with extra innings win over Arizona; Fick wins it for Padres in the 10th 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS -Facing Chris Carpenter was the last thing tho New York Mets needed. 
Carpenter became the first 21-game winner in the major leagues, Albert Pujols homered twice and the St. Louis Cardinals beat the fading Mets 5-0 Thursday night. 
New York has lost 10 of 12 following a 9-2 stretch, falling to 70-70. The Mets, on the verge of taking the wild-card lead on Aug. 31 before Pedro Martinez faltered against Philadelphia, have lost eight of nine since then and dropped 5 1/2 games back of Houston, which leads in the wild-card chase. 
"We've got to see if we can get something going from the little funk we're in," Mets man­ager Willie Randolph said. "Obviously we've picked a bad time to go into a little swoon, and it's hurting us." 
St. Louis cut the magic num­ber for clinching its second straight NL Central title to 10, beating the Mets for the ninth straight time at Busch Stadium. 
Carpenter (21-4) allowed three hits in seven innings, struck out seven and walked one, lowering his ERA to 2.21, second in the major leagues' to Roger Clemens' 1.57. He's 13-0 in his last 16 starts with a 1.36 ERA over that span. 
"What a performance we're watching," Cardinals manager Tony La Russa said. "It's just been a privilege to watch this kind of excellence." 

Carpenter said everything was working against the Mets. 
"I made quality pitches over and over again and kept the ball down in the strike zone and kept them off balance," he said. 
Carpenter has started 22. games in a row in which he allowed three runs or fewer while pitching six innings, the longest stretch of coq.<>ecutive quality starts in the NL since Bob Gibson also did it 22 straight times in 1968. 
Pittsburgh 8, Arizona 7 
The Pittsburgh Pirates went through two managers and a pair of 12-inning games in three days before finalJy.ending a record-tying home losing streak. 
Humberto Cota singled home the winning run in the 12th, and the Pirates overcame Tony Clark's two homers and five RBis to end a 10-game home losing streak with a victory over the Arizona Diamondbacks on Thursday. 
"This feels really good, because we didn't want to break that record," Cota said. 
The Pirates lost 10 in a row at home for only the second time in their 119-season history and the first time since 1968. Their first victory in Pete Mackanin's three games as interim manager since replac­ing the fired Lloyd McClendon also ended a six-game overall losing streak. 
"Hopefully, this relaxes every­one and we can start playing better ball," Mackanin said. 

Beaut:i:Ful acoust:ic guit:ars. Pick one up. 
'YV"WVV. RGG.t-.n.usic.corn 

RESTAURANT 
Now Hiring Experienced Server Apply in Person 
211 N. Main St. Downtown South Bend 
232..-4445 
www. SiamThaiSouthBend .com 
Opening Soon 
With a 56-83 record, they can't play much worse. 
Pittsburgh was within two outs of losing following Clark's second homer, a three-run go­ahead drive in the ninth, when Jason Bay hit a tying two-run shot -his 26th -in the bot­tom of the inning off Tim Worrell. Worrell blew his third save in four opportunities. 
In the top of the inning, Jose Mesa blew his third consecutive save opportunity by giving up Clark's 25th homer. Clark also hit a two-run drive in the first off Josh Fogg during his 17th career multihomer game. 
"The goal is to shake hands at the end of the day," Clark said of his big day in a losing cause. "If it's a 5-for-5 that does it or a 0-for-5, it doesn't matter." 
After the Pirates couldn't score with the bases loaded in the 11th, Rob Mackowiak sin­gled off Buddy Groom (0-1), Arizona's seventh pitcher, to start the 12th and moved up on Freddy Sanchez's sacrifice bunt. Cota, who doubled in a run in the eighth, then singled to center to give Pittsburgh its first home victory since Aug. 23. 
"It's good to finally win a game -it seems like it's a lot longer than it's actually been," Bay said. 
San Diego 3, Colorado 2 
It was a big bounce-back night for Brian Lawrence and Robert Fie!,(, who helped carry the San Diego Padres to their biggest lead in the NL West this year. 

Lawrence threw seven strong innings and Fick singled in the winning run with two outs in the lOth inning as the Padres beat the Colorado Rockies on Thursday night to climb one game above .500. 
The Padres (70-69) took a seven-game lead over idle Los Angeles and San Francisco, which lost 5-3 to the Chicago Cubs. San Diego took two of three from last-place Colorado. 
"We control our own destiny," Fick said. "As long as we win every night, we don't have to worry about anybody else." 
Lawrence, Akinori Otsuka, Trevor Hoffman and Scott Linebrink combined to five-hit the Rockies. Line brink (6-1) pitched a perfect lOth. 
Miguel Olivo started the win­ning rally by drawing a leadoff walk in the 10th off Jose Acevedo (2-4). Pinch-hitter Woody Williams, one of the Padres' starting pitchers, sacri­ficed him to second. After Mark Loretta grounded out, Fick hit a fly ball over right fielder Brad Hawpe to score Olivo. 
"Shoot, I was just trying to be aggressive and hit the ball hard for once," Fick said. 

International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 

INNSBRUCK 
and Berlin 

2006-2007 Academic Year 
Please Join Prof. Hannelore Weber and returnees of the program 
Question: "Can I Really Spend a Year Away from ND?'' Answer: "It Was the Best Year of My Life!" 
Tuesday,Sept.13,2005 118 DEBARTOLO 5:00-6:30 pm 
Applications Available www/nd.edu/-intlstud 
Questions?-Weber.15@nd.edu Application Deadline: Nov. 15, 2005 
.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­Friday, September 9, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
SMC SoccER MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Belles start MIAA play against Flying Dutch 

part in 90-degree weather," Bonds said of his rehabilitation. "Coming up here to San Francisco and the eold ... I just want to see how I come out of it." 
During his running exorcises, Bonds sprinted around the basns and spoke with several coaches. After getting instructions on how to quickly head out of the bat­tor's box for first base, Bonds cracked: "What if I hit a home run'?'' 
''I'm not waiting on his swing. I take that for granted," Giants manager Felipe Alou said. "The thing is running the bases. He ran better than in spring training and in the last month of last year. At this time last year, he was limping and complaining about the knee. It's much, much better than a year ago, or in spring training." 
Bonds and general manager Brian Sabean refused to give a timetable for his return, but the Giants' longtime left fielder said he would be willing to return even as a pinch-hitter. 
"I want to play [in the outlieldl if it's my pick, but I have to do what's best for the team," Bonds said. 
"l hope he's activated during tho weekend -that everything is OK enough that he's adivat­ed," /\lou said. "(Friday(, I don't see it as a sure thing, because we've got to see how he eomes in tomorrow." 
The 41-year-old outlielder will providn a huge boost to San Frandsen's improbable playofl' push. Following Wndnesday night's IJ-8 loss to the Dodgers, tho Gianl'> worn 63-75 -but in second place in the NL West, just six games bnhind San Dingo. 
'There's a feeling of urgency, because we know the diflimmee that he could make for us," Alou said. 
Gianl'> owner Peter Magowan and Sabean watched Bonds' workout from a luxury box above the field, while at least 40 reporters and photographers crowded into fiml territory in tl1e otherwise empty stadium. 
"It's days like this that tell you he's getting closer, but he's going to have to feel like he's rnady," Sabean said. 
Bonds, who has 703 career homers, said Wednesday he would definitely play this season, continuing his quest to overtake Hank Aaron (755) and Babe Huth (714) on baseball's career homers list. 

By KYLE CASSILY Sports Writer 
i\f'tnr dPaling llopP Coll11go its only loss of' tlw 2004 campaign, tlw BPIIos snPk not only to nlpnal tlw upsnt, but also dou­hlll tlw fun hy eornpl11ting a soa­son swnnp. 
Thn BPIIns opon tlwir Mli\A r.onf'nrnncn snason on Saturday al'lnrnoon against tho Flying Dutch of' llopo Collogn in the lirsl of a two-game snason snt. Last snason. in the opening ganw of tho snason snrins, the Bolles upsPt llope 2-0, before falling in a 3-2 eloso-fought grudgn match. 
Saint Mary's is confident in its ehanePS to dnfnat llopP -tlw Flying Dutch lost their star playnr, Dawn Gillam, to gradua­tion. Tho cnntnr midfielder was thn Mli\;\ eonf'nrenee MVP in 2004 and controlled llopn's on­finld play. 
"She was prntty mueh the nngirw on thn li11ld for (llopn (, nvorything wont through her," Bolles eoach Caryn Mackenzie said. "Thny kind of rose and fell with Dawn, so I don't know what thny will look likn this ymtr." 
Thn Flying Duteh arn not lacking in strong players this YIHtr, howevor. .Junior goalkeep­or llolly Nostlo and junior dnf11ndor Hacluwl Sauorman aro tlw backhonn of a ttmacious llopn defnnsn that the Belles will eountor with a vicious attack. 
i\nothnr strong point for Ilope is thoir sizn across thn pitch. 

Mackenzie d~lscribnd thnm as largor than a lot of tho eompeti­tion in tho Mli\A. 
"This will be an adjustmnnt for our l'roshrnan, they are not used to playing up against thesn bigger bodies,'' she said. 
;\ mantra for the Belles on the road this s1mson is to stay men­tally tough, to not be intimidat­ed by any toam no matter how strong it is. 
They refuse to get down on themselves, a central aspeet to any strong team. 
"I have confidence in our tal­ent," Mackenzie said. "It's only a matter of us believing in our­selves and playing hard for tho whole IJO minutes." 
Mackenzie is glad that the Bolles face the cream of the MIM crop early as it. will serve as a guidepost for the rest of their season. 
"We'll just try to grow and get better," she said. "We are look­ing forward to playing them, they are always great competi­tion." 
The Belles are confident they will recover from Wednesday's tough 4-0 loss to Illinois Wesleyan, their largest margin or defeat in over a year. 
But the defeat was merely a speed bump, and the Belles are ready to get back on their horse for eonference play. 
The game will be played at noon Saturday at Hope's home­field in Ilvlland, Mich. 
It is the lone game of the weekend for the Belles. 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 
I 
i 

With OUI Visa® Credit Cordi you 'II enjoy a low interest rate, and no annual fee. 
In addition, you can view your current balanc~, and make online payments. 
I 
I 

Bonds could return soon 
Associated Press 
SAN FHANCISCO -Barry Bonds felt strong and limber while taking swings and running the bases in a pregame workout back home Thursday. and the San Francisco Giants slugger said there's a possibility hn eould return this weekend. 
Bonds, who hasn't played this season after thrne surgerins on his troublesome right knee since Jan. 31, faced 21 pitches from Giants right-hander Kevin Correia split into two sessions in a simulated game. lie took just one swing at the first seven pitches, but hit an early pitch from the second session out of the park. 
Ilo also took a round of batting practice against hitting coach. Joe Lefebvre, swinging 17 times and hitting another homer along with a handful or line drives. Bonds took more batting prac­tiee later with his teammates, and he played catch in the out­field. 
He'll consult with his doctors Friday before a similar workout -and if he responds well to the increased stress and waiting periods required by his sport, Bonds acknowledged the possi­bility he could return this week­end. 
"It's not unrealistic, but now it's just the time of how I recov­er," Bonds said. 
Bonds looked good in batting practice for the fourth straight day since rejoining the Giants ~ Los Angeles, where he spent the last two months in rehabilitation. lie also was upbeat being baek in his home park with McCovey Cove behind right field -though the chilly weather tested him. 
''I've been in L.A. for the most 
isa®Credit Card 

CHURCH OF THE HOLY TRINITY EPISCOPAL 
WELCOME STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF 
Sunday Schedule 
8:00 a.m. Holy Eucharist (Rite ID 
10:00 a.m. Holy Fuchar!st with hymns (Rite II) 


Address 915 N. Olive Street South Bend, Jndlana (located two blocks south of Llncolnway West, South Bend, nt tbc Intersection of Olive& 
Prost) 
Need a ride'? Click here: www.hoiytrinitysouthbend.org 

0 
NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 


page 18 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

Irish host Notre Dan1e Invitational at Warren 
By CHRIS KHOREY Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's golf team will open its season Saturday and Sunday with the Notre Dame Invitational at the Warren Golf Course. 
The three-round tournament will host a field of 17 teams; including the Irish. Other field notables include Illinois, Western Michigan and Yale. Saint Mary's will also cross U.S. 33 to com­pete. 
Irish head coach Debbie King explained her reasoning in choosing which schools to invite. 
"I usually invite Big East and Central Region teams," she said. "Those are first priority. If none of them can make it, I start on the waiting list of schools around the country." 
Division I women's golf is divid­ed into three regions: East, Central and West. Teams need to beat as many schools as possible from their region to secure a bid to the NCAA Championship Tournament on Nov. 21. 
Despite King's attempts to bring in Big East opponents to the Invitational, only Georgetown and Notre Dame will be repre-­senting the conference at Warren this weekend. Former league member Boston College is making the trip, but the Eagles moved to the Atlantic Coast Conference after last spring. 
While she likes to play Big East opponents early in the season, King says she will not use the Invitational to scout the Hoyas. 
"We've played them many times, and we have a good idea of their caliber," she said. 
King said that opening the sea­son at home is important for the psyche of the Irish. 
"It's the best way to start the season, especially for the fresh­men just getting used to competi­tion," she said. "We don't have to miss classes and we're a little more comfortable at home." 

Teeing off for the Irish this weekend will be junior Noriko Nakazaki, senior Katie Brophy, sophomore Jane Lee and senior Suzie Hayes. The four veterans earned spots after a series of playoffs over the course of the preseason. Nakazaki and Brophy hold the two lowest stroke aver­ages in Notre Dame history. 
"We've had five rounds of qualifying since the first day of school," King said. "It's been a shootout for those top four spots." 
Three other players -senior Lauren Gebauer, junior Stacy Brown and freshman Courtney Sullivan -will compete in a playoff Friday for the fifth spot. King said the three were tied after the first five qualifying rounds. 
Five Irish golfers will compete as individuals. Senior Sarah Bassett, sophomore Alejandra Diaz-Calderon and freshman Lisa Maunu will join the two golfers who do not earn a spot on Friday. 
King also said she feels having the players compete for the top five spots and a chance to com­pete in tournaments is the most fair way to determine the team's roster. 
Butler, Indiana, IUPUI, Bradley, Western Illinois, Eastern Michigan, Toledo, Xavier, Winthrop and Bucknell will round out the !ield along with the Irish, Iloyas, Eagles, Broncos, Illini, Bulldogs and Belles. 
Iowa State won the 2004 Notre Dame Invitational, but will not compete this year. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

,­
' 
GAME WATCH 
SATURDAY Game day-Go IRISH. DJ after games, celebrate victory and boogie till dawn. ESPN game plan 
2046 South Bend Ave Across from Martins Plaza 
272-1766 
The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, September 9, 2005 
SMC GOLF 

Belles join Irish at course 
By JORDAN BELTZ Sports Writer 

Saint Mary's will visit Notre Dame this weekend when the Belles take part in the Notre Dame Invitational at the Warren Golf Course. 
Competition figures to be tough, as the Belles are the only Division II squad entered in the event. 
Last year, Iowa, State took home the title in an extremely close match, followed closely by the Washington State. The Notre Dame women's squad fin­ished just 12 strokes behind, in third place. 
This is the frrst time the Belles have ever been extended an invitation to the Notre Dame Invitational, and they feel hon­ored by the bid. The Belles are realistic about their goals for the weekend, but they are excit­ed to get the chance to show off their skills against some of the top college teams in the nation. 
"I think we're all pretty nerv­ous for it, but we hope to play well," senior Megan Mattie said. "It's an honor just to be invit­ed. " 
The Belles hope to put on a better showing than last week, where they struggled in the opening round of the Ferris State Lady Bulldog Invitational. The team eventually pulled it together in the fmal round and salvaged an eleventh place fm­ish, but they know that they can, and will, perform better in the future. 
"As a team, we played well for it being our first tourna­ment, but we could have played much better," freshman Alex Sei said. 

The added pressure of facing some of the top-ranked colle­giate teams in the nation will surely push the Belles to play to the best of their ability, as they are eager to show off their tal­ents to the rest of the women's golfing community. 
The Belles will look to take some of the positives out of last week's match, such as the fact that they defeated regional rivals St. Joseph's and Depauw, and parlay them into a respectable performance this weekend at home. 
Looking ahead, the Belles will begin conference play next week as they travel to Calvin College next Wednesday for the first of three MIAA outings. 
Contact Jordan Beltz at jbeltz@nd.edu · 

PASSING THE COMPETITION 

Forward Justin McGeeney sprints past a New Mexico defender in a 1-1 tie Aug. 22 at Alumni Field. The Irish recently dominated then-No. 7 SMU in a 4-1 thumping Sept. 2. 
Law&... 
September 14, 2005 4:30p.m. Law School Room 120 

"Sleeping with Baby: ANatural Ecology or aProsecutable Offense?" 
Presenter:  James McKenna Department of Anthropology  
Commentator:  Eric Smithburn The Law School  

Please join the Law School and the Department ofAnthropology for this first presentation in the 2005-2006 Law& ... series. 

AROUND THE NATION 
Friday, September 9, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE ()nsf: RVER'S WIRE SERVICES page 19 
AVCA Volleyball Top 25 

team  record  points  
1 >  Nebraska  4-0  1,498  
2  Washington  4-0  1,427  
3  Stanford  4·1  1,384  
4  Penn State  4-1  1,316  
5  Minnesota  3·0  1,210  
6  Florida  4-0  1,153  
7  Hawaii  2-3  1,146  
8  Southern California  2·2  957  
9  Wisconsin  3·0  939  
10  UCLA  3-0  887  
11  Louisville  3·0  849  
12  Ohio State  2·1  823  
13  Texas A&M  5-0  706  
14  Missouri  2·0  651  
15  Arizona  3·0  610  
16  Tennessee  2·1  608  
17  Texas  1-1  581  
18  UC Santa Barbara  2·1  519  
19  NOTRE DAME  3-0  446  
20  San Diego  4-1  431  
21  California  4-0  424  
22  Long Beach State  3·1  180  
23  Saint Mary's (Calif.)  5-1  164  
24  Kansas State  5-0  126  
25  Santa Clara  3-0  86  

NCAA Men's Soccer Top 25 
/r'am record points 
1 Indiana 2·0·0 400 2 Duke 2·0·0 377 3 New Mexico 2·0·0 354 4 UCLA 1·1-0 293 5 Santa Clara 2·0·0 291 6 Virginia 1·0·1 276 7 St. John's 1·0·1 272 8 California 2-0-0 268 9 North Carolina 2-0-0 253 10 Connecticut 2·0·0 251 11 Wake Forest 1·1·0 243 12 Maryland 1-1-0 238 13 Creighton 1-0·1 225 14 NOTRE DAME 1-1-0 180 15 VA Commenweallh 1·1·0 161 16 UC Santa Barbara 0-1-1 151 17 Akron 2·0·0 142 18 UNC Greensboro 1-1-0 126 19 Memphis 2·0·0 84 20 Boston College 1-1-0 65 21 Washington 1·1·0 53 22 Fairleigh Dickinson 2·0·0 47 23 Ohio Slate 1·1·0 46 24 Northwestern 2-0·0 43 25 Missouri Stale 2-0-0 42 
Big East Men's Soccer 

Blue Division Overall Standings 
team record Pet. West Virginia 3·0·0 1.000 Seton Hall 3·0·0 1.000 Connecticut 2·0·0 1.000 Georgetown 2-0-0 1.000 Providence 1-0·1 .750 NOTRE DAME 1-1-0 .500 Marquette 1-1-0 .500 Pittsburgh 0-2-0 .000 

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Pittsburgh at Ohio 7 p.m., ESPN2 Washington St. at Nevada 9 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 

Boston at New York 6 p.m., ESPN 
TENNIS US Open Day 12 Coverage 10 a.m., CBS 
NFL 


Associated Press 

FOXBOROUGH, Mass. ­New England's quest for an unprecedented three straight Super Bowl victo­ries is in good hands with two stars the Patriots did­n't lose: Tom Brady and Hichard Seymour. 
Brady threw for 306 yards and two touchdowns and Seymour made a game-turning defensive play as the Patriots beat Oakland 30-20 Thursday night, holding Handy Moss, the Raiders' new star, to one big play, a 73-yard touchdown catch. 
"It's important, we want­ed to get off to a good start," said Brady, who had 212 of his yards and both TD throws in the first half. 
New England's 35th win in 39 games since the start of the 2003 season was an odd one -all offense at the start, mostly defense after intermission. One key early adjustment was made by the Patriots, switching from their tradi­tional 3-4 defense to a 4-3 to help fill the gap caused by the loss of inside line­backers Tedy Bruschi and Ted Johnson. 
The Patriots, who also lost coordinators Charlie Weis and Homeo Crennel to head coaching jobs, led 17-14 at h a I l'ti rn e on touchdown passes by Brady of 29 yards to Super Bowl MVP Deion Branch and 5 yards to newcomer Tim Dwight. 
That offset a 2-yard TD pass by Kerry Collins to tight end Courtney Anderson on the game's first series and the bomb to Moss, who at 6-foot-4 simply went over 5-8 Tyrone Poole. 
Anderson also caught a 5-yard touchdown pass with 3:04 left set up by Handa! Williams' block of Josh Miller's punt. 
But Moss was called for offensive pass interference on the 2-point conversion 
play. That wasn't Moss' only mistakn. 
lie also dropped a short first-down pass that could havn gotten thn Raid1~rs out a hole early in thn third quart1~r. 
That nventually lnd to the gamn-turning play with just undnr six min­utl~s lnf't in the pnriod, thn kind ol' play that has marked the Patriots' run to three titles in four sea­sons. 
Seymour, who as usual made a half-dozen big plays on defense, was thn catalyst, pushing Raiders eenter Jake Grove into Collins. 
IN BRIEF 

Westbrook finally speaksafter one-week holdout 
PliiLADELPHIA-Move over T.O. Brian Westbrook is making his way to the top of the line of disgruntled Philadelphia Eagles. 
The Pro Bowl running back cut oiT contract talks with the Eagles because the two sides are far apart on a long-term extension, expressing disappointment management "hasn't stepped up to the plate." 
"Me and my agent have told the Eagles' management that we're no longer interested in talking to them as far as the contract situation," Westbrook said Thursday. "We don't feel as though we've received a pro­posal from them that really repre­sents the value that I bring to this team and my market value. 
"I think that in the last 2 1/2 , 3 years that I've been here, I've brought a lot to this team." 
Westbrook, talking for the first time since reporting to training camp after a one-week holdout, had been seeking a long-term deal after sign­ing a one-year restricted free-agent offer for $1.43 million. 
"I don't see anything but upside for me, and I feel as though I should be compensated for that," Westbrook said. Red Sox hope to build AL East lead in weekend series 
NEW YORK -For the past seven years, the Boston Hed Sox have spent each September trying in vain to catch New York. 
Now they get a chance to play with the lead. Boston begins a big three­game series at Yankee Stadium on Friday night with an opportunity to build a very comfortable cushion over its longtime rival in the AL East. 
After finishing second to the Yankees every season since 1998, the Hed Sox went into Thursday night with a four-game edge as they pursue their first division title in a decade. 
Legendary Auerbach hospi­talized again 
BOSTON -Red Auerbach, the president and former coach ol' the Boston Celtics, has bonn hospitaliznd in Washington with an undisclosnd health problem. 
The 87-year-old coaching great has been in and out of' the hospital the past month for tnsts and a successful surgical procedure, Celtics spokesman Jeff Twiss said Thursday. Twiss would not identify tlw proce­dure or the hospital and said Auerbach was rnadmitted for an unspecified problem within the last 10 days. 
A statement posted on the Celtics' Web site said: "The Au1irbach family expresses their deepest appredation for the concern pertaining to the health of their father. 
"Hed has been undnr the weather at times recently. and he has taken steps with his doctor to return to feeling better." 

page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 9, 2005 
Valpo 
continued from page 24 
Though Connelly will be keeping his top athletes in South Bend this weekend, he was extremely confident in the team that will be making the trip to Valparaiso, where the Irish finished third last season. 
"We're going to give our younger runners a chance to compete, because they have trained real hard all sum­

mer," he said. 
Among the nine runners making the trip will be Loryn King, a senior who was a part of the team that ran at the NCAA meet last November. 
An injury in the spring limit­ed her opportunities to race during the track season. Connelly wanted to get her back into a race early in the season. 
Joining King will be junior Ann Mazur and a slew of sophomores attempting to prove they are worthy of a spot in the top seven. 
Connelly pointed out that most of these runners will be in uncharted territory this afternoon. 
"We want to put them in a situation where they haven't been before," Connelly said. "They are used to running eight[h] position on the team,· and all of a sudden, they will have to run one or two. We'll see how they respond." 
Connelly also spoke of his group of sophomores, and .the adjustments they made enter­ing their second season. 
"Some of [the sophomores] 
struggled last season as fresh­men," Connelly said. "We sent them home with the message that they would have to train very hard over the summer. They got the message and worked hard. Now it's time to prove it in racing." 
All-Americans Molly Huddle, Stephanie Madia and sopho­more Sunni Olding lead Notre Dame's elite group of runners, which has undergone rigorous training early in the season. 
Connelly could not say for sure who will fill out the top seven, saying the competition is wide open. 
He felt later races would determine who will step into these roles. 
Connelly was certain that his team was eager to begin the season and attempt to improve on last year's fourth­place finish. 
When asked if his team was ready to race, Connelly responded quickly. 
"They're bouncing off the walls," he said. 
Contact Ryan Kiefer at rkiefer@nd.edn 
MEN'S X-C 

Te~m set to run in Crusader Invitational today 
field, Irish head coach Joe Piane Einterz, sophomore James the top eight positions at the home circuit on the Burke
Most ofthe top Irish 

decided to rest several of his top Millar, sophomore Mike Popejoy, meet last year for a perfect Memorial Golf Course during runners will skip the runners and give younger team freshman Kevin McFadden, score of 15. the month of September. members a chance to compete. freshman Mark Moore and But Plane is not worried about Also, like the course at Notre 
event to keep training Irish regulars who will not be freshman Chris Rodriguez will motivation. Dame, the Valparaiso course running include senior Tim all run Friday for the Irish. "For various reasons, every­repeats itself several times. Moore, fifth-year senior Sean Each runner will be experi­one who is running in this race "It's three loops, relatively
By CHRIS KHOREY O'Donnell, junior Kurt encing his first chance to be in is enthusiastic about it," Plane flat," Plane said of the course. 

Sports Writer 

Benninger and senior Kaleb Van the team's top five and score said. "It's a good way for them "It's pretty good from a specta­Ort. points for the Irish. Only Adams to contribute to the team." tors point of view. Fans can see 
The Notre Dame men's cross "Some of the yo·unger guys has previous collegiate meet Plane said the teaw ran work­quite a bit of the race." country team will begin its sea­need the experience," Plane experience, and that was injun­outs together for most of the After the Crusader son Friday at the Crusader said of his roster for Friday. ior varsity meets. week, but on Thursday, runners Invitational and the two home Invitational at Valparaiso Plane said Moore, O'Donnell, The Crusader Invitational field competing at Valparaiso ran meets, the Irish have two weeks University. Benninger and Van Ort will not will feature eight teams in addi­distance while those not com­off before the Pre-National 
The meet, which features travel to Valparaiso with the tion to the Irish: Chicago State, peting ran a faster-paced four­Championship in Terre Haute, mostly small schools, will serve team, but instead will work out IUPUI, Oakland, St. Joseph's mile tempo workout. Ind. and another two weeks as a tune-up for the Irish before at Notre Dame and drive togeth-· (Ind.), Western Illinois, While the team has been run­before the Big East the National Catholic er to the meet to cheer on their Wisconsin-Green Bay and the ning hills in preseason prac­Championships in The Bronx, Championships and the Notre teammates. hosts, Valparaiso. tices, they have not been a pri­New York. Dame Invitational, both at home Sophomore Brett Adams, sen­None are expected to serious­ority because the Irish will com­later this month. ior Tom Longo, sophomore ly challenge the Irish, who pete on two mostly hillless Contact Chris Khorey at 
Because of the relatively weak Daniel Bradley, sophomore Zach swept the top five and seven of courses -Valparaiso and their ckhorey@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles hoping to rebound at Wooster College Invitational 
By KEVIN BRENNAN Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team needs a confidence boost. 
After losing three of four matches at last weekend's Elmhurst Invitational, the Belles dropped their MIAA season opener Wednesday, losing to rival Hope College in four games. As Saint Mary's (1-4) prepares to participate in this weekend's Wooster College Invitational, head coach Julie Schroeder-Biek thinks the team must improve on its mental state and preparation. 
"We're just going to start from ground zero," Schroeder-Biek said. "We're going to work our way back up, and I'm just trying to narrow their focus. Right now, that's my big focus-the confidence issue." 
The Belles used Thursday's prac­tice to try to iron out some of these issues. Schroeder-Biek said she concentrated less on technical or strategic adjustments, focusing instead on eliminating frustration and keeping her team motivated. 
The tournament kicks off on Friday with the Belles taking on Mount Vernon Nazarene and Muskingum College. Saint Mary's then faces Bluffton on Saturday morning. Once the preliminary matches are done, the eight-team field will be re-seeded and elimina­tion rounds will continue for the rest of Saturday. 
Schroeder-Biek expects the com­petition at the tournament to be strong, especially with perennial power Muskingum in the field. 
The Belles participated in the Wooster College Invitational in 2003 and lost in the championship match. The team is excited to finishing seventh in the nine-team return to the tournament and conference in 2004. Schroeder­hopefully post another similar Biek wants her team to approach result. Friday and Saturday as if they 

Saint Mary's views. this weekend were playing in crucial conference as an opportunity to get the season contests. back on track before moving deep­"I want them to really get into er into MIAA play. At the start of the mental mode and the competi­the year, the Belles set the goal of tive mode to face every match as a making significant strides in the conference match, because the MIAA standings this season, after conference is so important to us," Schroeder-Biek said. "We all have to start thinking like that. 
"Everything is important. Every point is important. Every time you step out on that court, you are step­ping out to win." 
Despite the recent setbacks, Schroeder-Biek feels good about the Belles' chances heading into the weekend's match-ups. The · coach thinks that an improved mental outlook combined with her players' abilities should help Saint Mary's make a serious challenge for the tournament title. 
"We just need to get our confi­dence back, and I'd say we have an excellent chance," Schroeder-Biek said. 
Contact Kevin Brennan at kbrenna4@nd.edu 


Friday, September 9, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
Berticelli 
continued from page 24 
tlw l.ournalliPilt giVI'S tho tPalll a l'hanl'P to rnlllPIIliH'r l'orrnnr Irish l'oach Mikn Bnrlil'PIIi. who was tlw nwn's so1·cnr· progra 111 hPad coach 
from  I 'J'JO-IJ'J lw!'orP  passing  
away in 2000.  
Bul  Pa1·h yPar.  thn  tourna­ 

rn Pnl. f'p at ur P s high-ca IiIH• r l.nams and strPnuous l:ompdi­lion. prPIHtring tlw Irish for a sPason in t.lw Big l·:ast. onn of' ndiPgiai.P SOI'l'Pr's lliOS( l'luti­J.•ngi ng roni'PrPill'I'S. 
"!This tournamPntl has tlw No. 1 tPam in thP country lwrn for a start in Ill !Indiana llnivPrsityl. two pnrPnnial tournamnnt tnams in St. Louis and Boston UnivPrsity. it's up to oursnlvns l.o makn up l.hn fourth tnam," coach Bobby Clark said. "It's a fabulous tou r11amPnl." 
As host. NotrP Danw is snt to takn on Boston Univnrsity at 7::W p.m. Friday. !'ollownd by a showdown with St. Louis at 2 p.m. 
Tl11• Irish arn coming of' a 1­
wnnknnd at l11diana Univ1~rsity last wneknnd, at. thn adidas/IU Credit Union Classie. 
Aftnr dllfnating then-No. 7 So u t lw r n Met hod is t Univnrsity in a rc~sounding 4­1 walloping, the tnam lost a dosn overtinw match to then­No. I 0 Wah Forest. 
"We're vnry nxcitnd," Clark said. "Wn came off' a big tour­namnnt last wnekend, we're just hoping that our tourna­nwnt will stand eomparison with Indiana's." 
For Clark, one advantage that No. 1 Indiana had last wenkend was the raucous homn crowd. 
"We just hope that our stu­dents will eome out and sup­port the way IU students did," he said. "Four thousand peo­pin won) then) both nights and both days -hugo­crowds. I hope we'II gnt a lot of pnopln to comn out and sen grnat soeenr." 
This ynar's Irish squad promisns nxcitPnwnt, having alrnady playnd thrno ovnrtime contnsts: both prl'season nxhibition matclws. as WPII as last w1wknnd's eontnst against Wakn Fornst. 
Thn tnam is 1-1-1 in ovPr­timn matdws this yPar. but thnir physical f'itnnss gives tlwm an ndgn in tlw post-rng­ulalion limn. 
"T h ~~ o v n r t i m n gam es , tlwy'rn sonwthing wn'vn donn quito a lot of," Clark said. "It's quftn good to got an ov1wtimn ganw at this point in thn snason, it hnlps you gd in good eondilion. I think they've bnnn good for the tnam, no 1:omplaints on that one... 
Tlw Irish havn had a num­ber of di/Tnrnnt playnrs scor­ing goals, and Chris Cahill has bonn solid in his first sea­son as starting goalkeeper. However. Clark said that leadership began and ended with each individual on the team. 
"I think dif'fernnt games, we look to dil'l'nrent people," he said. "It's a funny thing, dif­ferent people have got to step up, you're always looking for guys to stop up and be lead­nrs. It doesn't matter whether they're freshmen or seniors, everyone has that potential." 
This tournament. with its seorching eompetition and closely-played games, gives the Irish the chance to notch two big wins early in the sea­son. 
"You need people to step up," Clark said. "And the more people we have stepping up to the plate, then the bet­ter team we're going to be." 
Contact Kate Gales at kga1es@nd.edu 
Rally 
continued from page 24 
Saint Mary's Shamrock Invitational all-tournament tnam. 
Tlw Irish l'aen tho Trojans tonight at 7 p.m.. thn Sooners Saturday at I:30 p.m. and the Cator·s Sunday at 11 a.m. Tlw loadod tournny also ineludes Bien (4-11. host Tnxas-San Antonio (:~-11. LSU (6-01 and No. B Texas A&M (5-01. 
It's an NCAA tournanwnt of' sorts. Tho eight team nwlee will bn about as dosn to Final Four atmosphern as a rngular snason tournamnnt ean get. 
USC has beaten Cal Poly and Wnstnrn Miehigan and lost to No. 4 llawa.ii and No. 5 Penn State. Tho Trojans return 11 lnttnrwinners and live starters from last year's 2:~-6 Final Four squad that defeated top­snedod Nebraska 3-2 before falling to Minnesota 3-1. The Trojans had won two straight national titles prior to last year's loss. 
Oklahoma's lone loss came against Alabama. The Sooners return nine letterwinners and f'ive starters from last year's 12-17 team that linished ninth in the Big 12. 
Florida, perhaps the most intimidating group the Irish will meet this weekend, has yet to lose a game this season. The Gators' closest game was 30­27, and their top win was a sweep against No. 15 UC Santa Barbara. They tied for lirst in the eastern division of the Southeastern Conference. After an easy first round win, the Gators gave eventual national champion Stanford a scare but lost 3-2. Florida concluded last season with a 28-5 mark. 
If Notre Dame plans to show the nation's elite it belongs, the Irish will have to rely on Tarutis' leadership on offense. 
Tarutis, as always, kept the Irish offense flowing smoothly and method ieally in Notn~ Dame's own tournament with her quick decision-making with the ball. 


She acknowledged she takes pride in getting the attaek going. 

"I do ltake prideJ. because when you get the oll'ense start­ed, it gives a lot of confidence to the team, if you get a big kill," she said. 
The 5-foot-8 leader was so quick Sunday against Arizona State, she got to the volleyball when she wasn't even in posi­tion. Tarutis "pancaked" a ball, which is when a diving player lays her hand completely flat on the court in order to bouneH the ball ofT to a teammate wait­ing to bump it over tho net. Tarutis downplayed her seem­ingly miraculous play. 
"I wasn't in the right posi­tion, and if I didn't go all out, then I wasn't going to get the ball," she said. "There are a couple of times when [pancak­ing] is necessary, but it's not technically good." 
Conventional or not, she'll do whatever it takes to help her team win. 
The pancake gave Notre 
Damn its 1Oth point in t.lrn deciding fif'th game against a scrappy Arizona State squad. Thn Irish won the mateh :w­20, 28-:w. 21-30. :w-2:{. 15-1 o. in part. beeausn of' Tarutis' hus­tle and 65 set assists. 
Tarutis will nnnd to 1:ontinue to load the Irish attack. She is still without l'ellow sophomorn starters Ellen Heintzman and Adrianna Stasiuk . .who are questionable l'or tonight's match against USC. Ilnintzman, who injured her knnn in tho first match of the season. prac­ticed this week some and will likely play. Stasiuk has been out the entire soason so l'ar because of an ofT-season rib injury. She has donn "minimal" workouts in practices. Coaeh Debbie Brown is unsure of' when her outside hitter will return. 
Still, the Irish have a hoard of capable players to keop their early season momentum rolling. And while there's a long way to go on the road to tho Final Four, the Irish might as well get used to eeiAbrating in the Alamodome. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwart@nd.edu 


18011 Cleveland R9ad • South Bend, Indiana 46637 
CorneT QrCleveland and Ironwood Road 
Phone (574) 272-8110 • Toll Free (888) 642-6110 www.cppj.coro 
• llu.-;iness Center 
• 
r...ree Tanning Bed 

• 
Racquer Ball _, 

• 
/11door/Outdoor Tennis & Basketball 

• 
Stvimming 


• 
Exercise Room 

• 
JVhirlpool & Sauna 

• 
Short·Term Leasing Options 


• 1-Z BEDROOMS/~ BEDROOMS WITH LOfT & DENS 
• MONTHLY EXEClJTIVE SUJTF..S 
Castle~oiot 
APARTIVIENTS 
What's the 9-1-1? It's Laura Cucco's 21st Birthday! 
Have agreat celebration!!! 
Love, Mom, Dad, and Emily 


.-----------~------------­
page 22 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 9, 2005 
buy into this idea that each player may have to give up
Broncos 

some playing time for the bene­continued from page 24 fit of the team in the long run 
-to keep us healthy," he said. the season with an 11-0 win Notre Dame must capitalize over New Hampshire, then fol­on that by continuing its devas­
lowed that per­ tating  ball  
formance with a  control and  
6-1 victory over Vermont. Last weekend, Notre Dame  "We've really got the kids to buy into this idea that each player may  excellent offensive communica­tion if the  
defeated No. 13 Florida (4-1) and No. 24 Maryland (6-0)  have to give up playing time for the benefit of the team in the long run.''  team is to keep domi­nating. So far, it  
to  capture the  has worked.  
2005 Saint Notre  Inn at Mary's Dame  Randy Waldrum Irish coach  Irish second­semester freshman  
Classic title.  Kerri Hanks  

That dominance may help the attempted 27 shots and scored Irish stay fresh against better 10 goals in her first four games, opponents. Head coach Randy and Thorlakson has 17 points Waldrum was able to remove (5G-7A). almost every starter for the However, they will be facing final 25 minutes against preseason All-American goalie Maryland. Julie Ryder and a Broncos 
"We've really got the kids to defense that has aiiowed just one goal in 300 minutes of play this year. 
Hanks said that although the team realizes the enormity of this early-season match-up, the Irish wouldn't look past other opponents in the run-up to the contest. 
"There's no way we can look ahead," she said. "[Before a gamel. we can't even look ahead to the next weekend." 
The Irish counter in goal with Erika Bohn, herself a solid vet­eran with a national title under her belt. 
She will have to contend with offensive standouts Tina Estrada, Tiffany Roberts and Brittany Klein. Estrada led the Broneos with 21 points and 67 shots last year. 
The game begins at 7 p.m. Pacific Daylight Time and will be broadcast live on Comcast Sports Net West, with delayed broadcasts on local affiliates. 
Contact Ken Fowler at kfowler 1 @nd.edu 

Mendoza 
continued from page 24 
said he feels as though this sea­son he doesn't get as tired as a result of the strength program. 
"It has definitely improved my game," the sophomore said. "Getting out there playing and running the ball, I'm not as tired now. When you know you can get out there and do the job and not have to worry about being tired, it makes your job a lot easier." 
And the Irish have also Qene­fited from their new faeility, the Guglielmino Athletics Complex. The Haggar Fitness Center is twice the size of the team's old facility in Loftus. It contains more than 250 pieces of weight training equipment in addition to six plasma screen televisions. The adjacent room consists of a 45x18 turf field for workouts and exercises. Next to that is a 50-yard track for speed work­outs. 

"Best in the country," said Mendoza, who formerly coached at the University of Mississippi. "I left Ole Miss building a new weight room and coming to this situation and having a little bit to say what was going on here -it's the best in the country." 
And Mendoza used the Irish facility to push his players. He installed a "110 test" in which the Irish had to complete 18 consecutive 110-meter runs with a 30 second rest. Skiii players had to finish each in 16 seconds, all others in 19. 
"I think the conditioning that we received, the team as a whole, was a lot different than any of us ever received," Walker said. "So I would defi­nitely say the training and the conditioning that we received from Coach Mendoza kind of put us over the top." 
Mendoza is a coach who prides himself in having players who are in shape. 
"My philosophy's always been about being in great shape," he said. "I think when you come into camp being in great shape, I think you're focused on what you're doing. At the same time, it builds confidence in what you're doing." 
While most high school play­ers think they need to put on weight before they get to col­lege, Mendoza said he stresses another part of the game ­conditioning. 
"One of the things I empha-
Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm 
(Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering 
------------~~~~¥~~------------~ 
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Giape Leave Rolls, Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 

size to our freshmen coming in, I don't emphasize for them to work on their strength gain, I tell them they need to come in being in shape," Mendoza said. "The first thing we send them is the conditioning manual." 
Mendoza also said the Irish had to adapt to some new exer­cises, such as squatting, which develops the legs. 
"These kids have never squat­ted," he said. "My first week they struggled with 315 pounds. We've made some big kids. Most of these kids are at 550 pounds. When I left Ole Miss we had three kids that squatted over 700 pounds. Not that that's what we need to work to, but I like to get these kids to where they're squatting 600 pounds." 
And with the "Gug" complete, Mendoza has the perfect facility to help him achieve his goals with the Irish. 
"We've made improvements over the summer," he said. "We're not where we need to be, but we're moving in the right direction." 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 


Snite Museum ofArt 
Sunday, September 11, 2 -4 pm 
OPENING RECEPTION 
FOR FALL BITIONS 
EXHIBITIONS 
•
Photographs by Sebastiiio Salgado 

•
Vincent Valdez: Stations 

•
Caras y Mascaras Faces and Masks The Art ofZarco Guerrero 

• 
The Photographs ofFrederick Sommer: A Centennial Tribute 



s~~

Gallery talks starting at 2:30 pm 
Museum ~tART 

Free and open to the public • For further information call631-5466 
WE STILL BOOZE 

---~ 
I 
I 
Friday, September 9, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY ALEC WHITE & ERIK POWERS 
JOCKULAR 

ADAM FAIRHOLM

CROISSANTWORLD 

CROSSWORD WILLSHORTZ 
ACROSS 27 Least exciting 54 Spat-ending words
1 Receive 29 Poisoned item excitedly in "Snow White 58 WB sitcom and the Seven
6 Some security 59 Piece of mind? 
Dwarfs"aids so Yemeni port31 "Annuit coeptis" 

10 Start of a famous tor its 
appears on

Parisian protest coffee
them 14 2004 French 61 Lacking volume
32 Asian leaderOpen finalist who had a 62 Make or break Dementieva Ph.D. from 63 Get out of 

15 Blue material Princeton 64 They're often 16 Something 34 Beat by a bit, 9-Down 
passed in courts with "out" 65 Tag line? 

17 Up 35 Track event? 
66 Kind of 18 Prepare to be 38 Craps loser 
mythology that shot 41 Son of Leah influenced 19 First name in 42 1589-92 Tolkien mystery teaching venue for Galileo 
20 Spat-beginning DOWN 
words 46 Hunter of fish 1 Engenders 23 Married mujer: 48 Some psalms 2 #3 or #4, sayAbbr. 

50 Laugh syllable 3 Pumpkin, e.g.
24 Tho lead-in 
51 How­4 Newton, for one
25 To be, in 52 Boot holder Barcelona 5 States one's 
53 Countdown 29 Bridget's 38 Some souvenirs 47 Chocolate
case?
26 Meal source presenters portrayer in giant
39 Boot
6 House shower "Bridget Jones's 
40 Dish served on 49 TorpedoANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 7 Marc Antony's Diary" toast 52 Tars
love 30 Old man 
43 Speedway racer 
8 The Super Bowl, 55 Geiger of 
33 Sledding sites 44 Home to the

to a football fan Geiger counter 
36 Ranch in Big East's Red fame
9 Lit 
Ferber's "Giant" Storm 56 Actress Polo
37 Lake of 45 Take the edge 11 Paints the town "Hairspray" off 57 Sundowner red 
12 Stag For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a 13 Fell hard? 
credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday 
21 Tank swimmer 
crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 22 Kharg Island 
Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000resident 
past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year). 28 Name on a Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young compact solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


page 23 

j  
JUMBLE  HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION  ~ l I j  
I  

J~~1! 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
I SOOGE 
I I I () 
a.wos Tribune Media Services, Inc. 
tY~r-t J 
tHERETT j
J r
1 
www.jumble.com 
tENMECT I 

Now arrange the circled letters 
to form the surprise answer, as 
suggested by the above car­
(Answers tomorrow) Yesterday' Jumbles: ADAPT BURLY CONVEX DREDGE s Answer: What kind of outfit did she buy when she lost weight? -"REDUCED" 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS llAY: Jonathan Taylor Thomas, 24; Pink, 26; I leather Thomas, 48; Ann Beattie, 58 
Happy Birthday: You'll have enough to contend with this year just trying to keep up with all the changes going on. Once you stop trying to keep everything the same, you'll discover that going with the grain can be to your advantage. As the year progresses, you'll realize that you do pretty good thinking on your feet. Yournumbersare 16,19,26,32,37,43 
ARIES (March 21-Apri119): Money should he on your mind. Pay down debt you've accumulated. A sudden streak of good luck is apparent--coming into money, favorable contracts, deals or even receiving a gift. ••• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It will be impossible to hide your feelings or disregard what others say today, so speak your mind. A chance to start a new hobby will help spice up your day. ••• GEMINI (May 21-Junc 20): Don't let personal issues stop you from getting ahead professionally. An opportunity to move to a new position is present. Take a chance if it will leave you with greater options. ••• CANCER (June 21-July 22): This is the perfect time to do your research or discuss your interests with someone in the know. Travel and learning will be important. Love and romance can be yours if you are receptive. ••••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't limit yourself because someone is pressuring you to do things his or her way. Voice your opinion so you aren't blamed for someone else's shortsightedness. • • VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Talk over a situation you are lacing professionally with someone who can relate to what you're going through. Someone who is having trouble with an educational or financial establishment may need your help. •••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): A change may not be what you expect, but it will be good for you. Don't let insecurity lead you to a poor career choice. A unique approach to love and relationships will bring tar more interest than being too aggressive. *"'* SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't get dragged into secret matters that could make you look bad later. Be discreet and ethical, even if the people you arc dealing with lack integrity. You are likely to experience an emotional change. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Be careful whom you trust with information about work and your co-workers. Someone may try to twist your words. A favor 

-
will be granted if you ask, but he prepared to offer one in return. ••• CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You'll feel sorry for someone who is in dire need of assistance. Do as much as you can lor others. Your ability to take care of business should lead to advancement of some sort. ••• • AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will have no trouble attracting love, hut don't count on being told the whole truth. You may be led astray; you will have to defend yourself and your reputation. • • PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Plan something fun that will bring you in contact with friends and new acquaintances. A creative project will catapult you into the limelight. ••••• 
Birthday Baby: You have grace, charm and plenty of creative ability. You arc versatile, adventurous and a very loyal friend. You are a powerhouse whenever anyone needs your help. 
Eugenia's Web sites: as/roadvice.com for jim. eugenialast.com for confidential consultations 

THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name _____________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City _______ State ____ Zip______ ­
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, September 9, 2005 
page 24 
ND WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Team locks horns with No.5 Broncos 
By KEN FOWLER Sporrs Writer 
In what is likely to be the team's toughest game of the regular season 
.----...,,----....., -and one of the best matchups of national pow­erhouses this year -No. 1 Notre Dame challenges No. 
Waldrum
5 Santa Clara in the SCU adidas Classic 
FOOTBALL 

tonight. 
The Broncos enter the game with a 2-0-1 record after beat­ing Virginia Tech Sunday, and come off a season in which they reached the College Cup semifi­nals -a game they lost to the Irish. 
Santa Clara traveled to South Bend early last season to play in the Inn at Saint Mary's Notre Dame Classic. This year, the roles are reversed. The Broncos play host to the tournament they call "El Classico," and the Irish play the role of the highly­ranked visiting foe. 
Notre Dame emerged victori­ous from both contests last sea­son. The Irish won the first game by a score of 5-2, though the game was much closer than the line indicates. 
After the two teams battled closely for the first 80 minutes, Irish forward Katie Thorlakson scored two of her three goals and added one of her two assists in the final 10 minutes. In a dazzling stretch of just three minutes, 39 seconds, she netted five points and took the game's outcome out of question. 
Their second meeting would have no such offensive out­burst. Candace Chapman scored the national semifinal's only goal on a give-and-go with Thorlakson at 72:02. 

The Irish then defeated UCLA 1-1 (4-3 on penalty kicks) to capture the national title. 
The Broncos beat Arizona 2-0 to start the season, but tied No. 21 Wake Forest 0-0 after two overtimes a week ago. 
The Irish have won all four of their opening games in convinc­ing fashion. The team opened 
see BRONCOS/page 22 

Packing a punch 
Strength and conditioning coach Ruben Mendoza directs the Irish 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sporrs Writer 
Last week the Irish line didn't give up a sack, helped its run­ning backs rush for 275 yards and chased the play all game. 
Credit strength and condi­tioning coach Ruben Mendoza for the stamina that the line showed. 
"I think he does a great job," offensive line coach John Latina said. "It doesn't surprise me that our kids are in pretty good shape." 
Running back Darius Walker 
see MENDOZA/page 22 


NO WOMEN's X-C 
Younger runners co111pete 
Veterans to remain at home for meet 
By RYAN KIEFER Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's cross country team will not send any of its top runners to the sea­son-opening meet, the Valparaiso Invitational, slated to take place this afternoon. 
For any other team, this may seem like question­able coaching strategy, but Irish coach Tim Connelly has a plan. 
He will save his best run­ners for later in the sea­son, allowing them to get more uninterrupted train­ing before they compete in any races. 
This will allow them to be in peak shape for the most important races, including the conference, regional and NCAA meets, all of which take place in late October or early November. 
It's difficult to argue with Connelly's philosophy. It has earned Notre Dame three consecutive NCAA top-1 0 finishes, including a fourth-place result last fall. 
see VALPO/page 20 
MEN'S SOCCER 

Irish set to host tournament 
By KATE GALES Associate Sporrs Editor 
Before the long road trips and exhausting injuries, when every team harbors dreams of a national title and every freshman is full of potential, there are the tour­naments. 
For the Irish, there is one very important tournament­the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament, which Notre Dame hosts annually at the beginning of the season. 
In the midst of dizzying non-conference schedules, 
see BERTICELLI/page 21 


Observer File Photo Irish goalie Chris Cahill makes a spectacular diving save in Notre Dame's 1-1 exhibition tie against New Mexico Aug. 22. 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Squad to face tough .cotnpetition at Rally 
By TOM DORWART Sporrs Writer 
The Irish hope to celebrate a championship this weekend. 
It's September, and they're already at the Final Four ­the site of it, anyway. 
This weekend Notre Dame (3-0) heads to San Antonio for the University of Texas-San Antonio Dome Rally at the Alamodome. The Irish don't want to get too far ahead of themselves, but the city of River Walk is right where they want to be in December. 
"We still have a lot to work on, obviously," sophomore set­ter Ashley Tarutis said. 
Though they will face two top-10 teams in No. 8 Southern California (2-2) and No. 6 Florida (5-0) as well as Big 12 foe Oklahoma (4-1), the No. 19 Irish won't consider a tournament championship an upset. 
"[Last weekend's success] gave us a lot of confidence to be able to play with a lot of highly ranked teams," said Tarutis, who made The Inn at 
see RALLY/page 21 
MEN'S X·C 
SMC VOI.lEYBAU.. 
Nil WOMEN'S GOlF 

SMC GOlF 
SMC SOCCER 
MlB-Nl 
LLI 
Giants slugger Barry
u Crusader Wooster College Notre DameNotre Dame Saint Mary's at 

Bonds could finally return to action this 

• 
z Invitational InvitationalInvitational Invitational Hope College 
::5 
weekend.
Today Today-Saturday 

Saturday-Sunday 
Saturday-Sunday Saturday
c:s 

Younger Irish runners Belles hope to 
Irish set to host 17­

Belles ready to com-The Belles travel to 
c:c 

traveling to Valparaiso improve 1-4 start to sea-
team field at Warren 
pete in Notre Dame's 
Holland, Mich. to battle !; for meet. 
son. 

Golf Course. 
tournament. 
rival Flying Dutch. 

en 
page 20 page 17page 20 
page 18 
page 17page 18 


page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 9, 2005 
NO-Michigan always memorable 
ESPN Classic has the game circled on its calendar every year -the game when Rocket Ismail returned two kicks for touch­downs. The game when Desmond Howard struck the Heisman pose in the end zone. Th!; 
~~~~ Sports Editor 
Harry Oliver lined up for an impossible 51-yard field goal, then booted it through the uprights. 
It's winged helmets vs. golden helmets. Hail to the Victors vs. The Victory March. The Big House vs. The House that Rock Built. 
It's a game of names. Tim Biakabutuka and Autry Denson. Elvis Grbac and Kevin McDougal. Butch Woolfork and Michael Stonebreaker. Bo Schembechler and Lou Holtz. 
It's Version 2005 of Notre Dame-Michigan. One of the most competitive, colorful and dramatic series in col­lege football kicks off tomorrow and everyone is thrilled. 


Everyone that is, but the teams themselves. 
Irish tight end Anthony Fasano says it's nothing unusual, simply the second game of the year. So does his teammate Rhema McKnight and Irish coach Charlie Weis. 
Hot air? Maybe. 
But if the Irish hope to play well in Ann Arbor, Fasano and Co. must treat Michigan as just another game. Getting too hyped will 
"You have to treat
blur Notre Notre Dame Dame's focus ever.y game the finally knows it and make an can win.
same ... ifyou ever 
upset of the Irish quarter­
treat any team
No.3 back Brady Wolverines differently you're Quinn even tougher. remarked after
just setting
Weis, who last week's
yourself up for a
will coach in game that it is his first Notre fall." nice to play Dame­with confi­Michigan game dence, not with
Charlie Weis 
tomorrow, the nervous­
Irish coach 
summed up his squad's outlook best. 
"You have to treat every week the same," Weis said. "You understand the signifi­cance of rivalries between different schools. But if you ever treat any team differ­ently, you're just setting yourself up for a fall." 
Weis showed against Pittsburgh he knows a little bit about coaching. And his attitude will help the Irish tomorrow. 
But for followers of Michigan, Notre Dame and sports in general, tomorrow is the closest college foot­ball comes to theater. 
Since 1978-when the series resumed after a 35­year hiatus -the average margin of victory has been 
6.4 points (not counting, of course, the 38-0 Michigan romp in 2003). 
Tomorrow should be no 
different than in recent years, except for one thing: 
ness of the 

past that caused him to fire footballs over receiver's heads and Travis Thomas to drop them on the ground. 
Weis said after the Pittsburgh game the players were starting to realize they were better than they thought they were. 
He's right. They are better than they thought they were -better than last year's team, better than Pittsburgh and possibly bet­ter than Michigan. 
Yes, Michigan is in the top five as usual, and there's a reason for that. 
Steve Breaston, Chad Henne, Jason Avant, Mike Hart and the rest of the Maize and Blue are good football players. Very good football players. 
But the Irish aren't pushovers. 
They have a Parade All­American offensive line; a running back named Darius Walker who could start for any team in the country; a defensive tackle named Trevor Laws who is only a law degree short of being Chris Zorich; and Quinn. 
Tomorrow is the biggest game of his three-year career. 
l-Ie was heavily recruited by the Wolverines. Michigan wanted him. But Quinn wanted Notre Dame. 
Barring injury he's likely to go down as the Irish career-leader in most pass­ing categories. But that means little if he doesn't win the big games -and none are bigger than Notre Dame-Michigan. 
Enjoy the show. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd. edu 
game hype 

CharlieWeis Irish head coach 
"We still have a lot to prove. There are still a lot ofpeople out there that doubt us." 

Brandon Hoyte Irish linebacker 
"We're looking forward to one ofthe great rivalries we have here at Michigan. " 
"Every bit of energy ... we have to put into just trying to beat Michigan. " 

Brady Quinn Irish quarterback 
"[When] a team can play two big games back to back ... [that's] when champions are made." 


Nine Days of Prayer 
and solidarity with our sisters and brothers who have struggled through the trauma of Hurricane 
Katrina 
A profound word of thanks to the ~l!;J~r~ Nqtre Dame coYIJ;~tll.lnity-students, faculty, and staff­who helped tO contribute for relief effOrts over the weekend. 
A nine day period of prayer and solidarity CONTINUES1TODAY, SEPTEMBER 7 through WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14 


6:30 -6:45PM in the BASILICA OF THE SACRED HEART 
Mass on the Feast of Our Lady of Sorrows, Thursday, September 15 at 5:15PM, will conclude the nine days of prayer. 
C-M 
Campus Ministr-y 

Friday, September 9, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Spreading the -wealth 
Irish offense is diverse and effective, but this week will be a true test 
completions went to running going east and west on the 
By HEATHER back Darius Walker, who also field," Weis said. "We alwaysVAN I-IOEGARDEN 
had his first carenr touchdown prefer to be going north and Sports Wrircr reception -a 51-yard screen south. Sometimes if you have a pass in the first quarter. running back with great 
Onn play wnnl for negative "It's a part of tho game that instincts, you have to let him yards and lhn rnsl combined to has rnally increased in me as play." prodw:n !i02-227 yards in the far as skill level goes," the soph­And Walker said when he air and 27!i on llw ground. omore Walker said. "Being able plays, he lets his instincts take 
In last wnnk's 42-21 drubbing to catch thn ball out of thn back­over. of Pittsburgh, now lwad coach field is something that a run­"I think out thnre on the field and forntnr Nnw England ning back needs to do ... and it you just have to feel it," he said. Patriots ofTnnsivn coordinator keeps the dnl'ensn on their "It's not really something you Chal"lin Wnis showcased his toes." think about when you're out om~nsn for llw first limn on the Even Weis was pleased with there runnivg. But I know when eoll1~gn IPvnl. And against that play on Saturday. the game is over the coaches Miehigan Saturday. the same "I think maybe my favorite will let you know if you're doing ofl"nnst~ must lw rwar-p11rfnet for play or the whole game, besides too much east-west." tlw Irish to havn a chance running it in the red zone, was Powers-Neal, meanwhile, against llw No. :~ Wolvni-ines. lhH poss11 that was in front of scored more touchdowns last 
Darius on that screen pass," week in one game than he has In the air Weis said Tuesday. "All three in his career -three, to be 
Irish quarlorhac:k Brady recnivnrs werH thorn; linemen exact. The senior ran for 41 <)uinn thrivnd last week. com­were thoro; light ends were yards on eight carries and plnling I S-or-27 passns for 227 there. I moan, everybody was eaught one pass. yards and two louehdowns. thorn, and it brings a smile to But now it's No. 3 Miehigan, 
lin also rushnd the coaches' faces and Walker, who burst onto the ror a earnnr high when you see that seene last season with 115
"/ think the biggest 
41J yards on fivn many guys hus­yards rushing and two touch­!'arrins. thing is you've got tling until the play downs against Michigan in Tlw third-ynar is over." Notre Dame's 28-20 vietory, said
to make sure 
starlt'r is just snt­McKnight. who this week is no different for
everyone is relaxed 
tling into thn had three catches him. ofTnnse undnr and focused." for 51 yards last "We have our goals set of Weis. Saturday wonk, said the what we need to do to go out will prnsnnl anolh­receivers can be a there and be productive and to
Brady Quinn 
nr lnsl. solid group. be successful," Walker said. The rotation of four is not only noise at Michigan Stadium. Wnis 
Irish quarterback 
In 20<n. Quinn "I feel we have "This Michigan game is no dif­talented but experienced. All had his team praeticn silnnt throw len passes the opportunity to ferent from another game." four saw significant playing snaps earlier in lhn week, in at Michigan Stadium, garnrng go out and be the best receiving time last season, and the non­addition to simulating noise so nxpnrinnce in Notre Dame's 38-group in the nation," the senior In the trenches starter, Sullivan, was a starter they couldn't hear each othnr in 0 loss. And he knows the over said. "And the way we go about On Saturday, the rotation of in 2004. the huddle. 110,000 rans will present a doing it is lbyl preparing our­four inside offensive lineman -Harris was also a starter last "'The Big House' is 'The Big challenge fi1r his ofl"tmse. selves during the week and Bob Morton, Dan Stevenson, season. And Latina said having llouse', but there's ways to pre­
"I think the biggnsl thing is hopefully pllrforming on Dan Santucci and John Sullivan that group rotating is a plus for pare for it," Samardzija said. "I you'vo got to make sure every­Saturdays." -seemed to work well. The the Irish. think we're pretty adjustnd to it. one is relaxed and focused, line, including Hyan Harris and "We felt like all along that we We go week-in and week-out bneausn com mu n ieali ng baek On the ground Mark Levoir, was moving have four inside guys that we with crowd noises in big stadi­and forth lwtwnen thn o-line, As much as Walker likes to uplield and following the ball all feel really good about," he said. ums, so I think we'II be fine with tlw wid11 rnenivers. everyone on catch the ball, his main task is game. Something the Irish "They are all very capable of it." llw field is going to be the to run, and run he does. The coaching staff has put great playing for us and that's a good And McKnight doesn't earn biggnst kny," Quinn said at his sophomorfl ran for 100 of the emphasis on. thing. You wish you had more what happennd in the past with prnss conf"nrnnce Wndnesday. Irish's 27!i yards rushing "We try to get that done in than what we have, becauso the Michigan -he is focused on "Obviously, thnre 's a lot that can Saturday. lie was joined in the practice, make that a habit for more guys you can play, the Saturday's game only. "At this happtHI whnn t.hn noisn level backfield by Hashon Powers­them in practice and hopefully fresher you stay and the better point I'm not concerned about goos up. Cuys start losing their Neal, Asaph Schwapp and that carries over to the game," the situation is. what happened last year. the focus and lnt olhnr things Travis Thomas. offensive line eoach John Latina We like that situation we past two years, last wnnk," he bneomn a foeus. so that's going Walker's vision, however. is said. have." said. "All I'm concerned about to ho the biggest factor -mak­what makes him stand out, and "I thought our kids chased is beating Miehigan this year." ing sun~ guys aro rnlaxed and Weis recognizes this. downfield and were downfield A true test foeusnd." "Obviously we don't want to on some screen plays making This week the Irish offense Contact Heather Van Hocgarden 
l)uinn was thn starter last takn too many risks as far as some blocks." will be forced to deal with the at hvanhoeg@nd.edu snason wlwn thn Irish beat Tnnnnssnn at Nnyland Stadium, orw of r.ollngn rootball's loudest plaens to play. hut he also 
by the numbers

n•nwmlwrs two ynars ago when tho crowd noisn aiTncled the Irish at "Tlw Big llousn." 
The year Notre Dame last won in

"Two yPars ago at Michigan 
t.lw crowd was 
Michigan Stadium. The No. 11 Irish
rwisn pretty 
1993
defeated the No.3 Wolverines, 27-23.

lwavy tlwrn, obviously. with I I 0,000 that had to play a big rar.tor," Quinn said. "It was one Career TD passes by Brady Quinn, tied lor or thosn situations wlwre I think fifth in Irish history with Heisman Trophy
28 

our lnarn had to wsorl to silent winner Angelo Bertelli. counts. W1~ adjusted pretty well with it at Tenrwss1w last year, Consecutive games Michigan has won bul not so WPll at Mkhigan two at home against all opponents. 
16 

yPars ago." 
But if Saturday is anything like last w1wk. tlw junior will 1887 Year of the first contest between have plnnly of options in the air. Notre Dame and Michigan. The l.ast wenk hP rornplntnd passes Wolverines won, 8-0. to sPvPn difTt~rnnl rPceivnrs. 
with light tHid Anthony Fasano First downs the Irish recorded last week, ltmding the way. the most since tallying 34 against Georgia 33 
"It nwans you have a lot of Tech in 1997. options !throwing to s1wnn rernivnrsl," wide rncniver First downs Michigan recorded last week Hlwrna McKnight said. "If you against Northern llinois.
29

havn a lot of options, people don't rnally know who you're 
Notre Dame's national rank in both all-time

going to. It ki'I'PS a lot or defens­PS o(l" balanct~." victories and winning percentage. 
2 

.Junior receiver .Jeff Sarnardzija had a 19-yard div­ing touchdown ralrh in the sec­1 Michigan's national rank in both all-time ond quarter, the first of his Irish running back Darius Walker focuses on the ball during practice victories and winning percentage. earner. And lhrtHJ or Quinn's Wednesday. Walker ran for 100 yards in the win over Pittsburgh. 

page 4 

The Observer+ SPORTS Friday, September 9, 2005 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEADT 
Roster 
No. Name ros. Ht. I D.j. Hord WR 6-1 3 Darius Walker RB 5-11 4 Anthony Vematlia DB 6-3 5 Rhema McKnig t WR 6-1 6 Ray Herring DB 6-0 7 Darrin Bragg WR 6-1 8 Junior )abbie RB 6-0 9 Tom Zbikowski DB 5-11 10 Brady Quinn QB 6-4 II David Grimes WR 6-0 12 Marty Mooney QB 6-2 13 QB 6-2 
14 6:~dst!.,~f~!Y QB 6-2 15 Leo Perrine DB 6-0 16 Rashon Powers-Neal RB 6-3 17 Geoffrey Price p 6-3 17 Dan Gorski QB 6-3 18 Chinedum Ndukwe DB 6-2 19 D.J. Fitzpatrick K/P 6-2 20 Terrail Lambert DB 5-11 21 Maurice Stovall WR 6-5 22 Ambrose Wooden CB 5-11 23 Chase Anastasio WR 6-2 23 W. David Williams DB 5-10 24 Brandon Erickson WR 6-0 25 Nate Schiccatano DL 6-2 26 Wade lams DB 5-9 26 Travis Thomas RB 6-0 27 David Bruton DB 6-2 27 John Lyons RB 6-1 28 Kyle McCarthy DB 6-0 29 LaBrose Hedgemon DB 5-9 30 Mike Richardson DB 5-11 31 jake Carney DB 6-0 32 Jeff Jenkins RB 6-0 32 Alvin Reynolds DB 5-10 
33 ) ustin Hoskins RB 5-10 34 Tommie Lee DB 6-2 35 Ashley McConnell RB 6-0 35 Tim Kenney DB 6-0 36 Brandon Harris DB 6-0 37 Junior )abbie DB 5-11 37 Matt Mitchell DB 5-8 38 Nick Possley WR 6-1 39 Brandon Hoyte LB 6-0 40 Maurice Crum, Jr. LB 6-0 41 Scott Smith LB 6-3 42 Kevin Washington LB 6-1 43 Anthond:: Salvador LB 6-2 44 RB 6-0
~~f~ioi~wapp
45 K 5-10 45 Rich Whitney DB 6-2 46 LB 6-1 47 ~~~~ei;t~~mas LB 6-3 48 Steve Quinn LB 6-2 49 Matt Augustyn FB 6-3 50 Dan Santucci OL 6-4 52 Joe Brockington LB 6-1 53 joseph Boland LB 6-2 54 David Fitzgerald OL 6-4 57 Nick Borseti LB 6-4 57 DL 6-2
~~~r~~dahenson
58 LB 6-1 59 james Bent OL 6-2 60 Casey Cullen DL 6-1 61 J.J. jansen LS 6-3 62 Scott Raridon OL 6-7 63 )effTisak OL 6-3 66 Derek Landri DL 6-3 68 OL 6-5 69 ~ft'K~~~~ DL 5-11 71 James Bonelt OL 6-5 72 Paul Duncan OL 6-7 73 Mark LeVoir OL 6-7 74 Dan Stevenson OL 6-6 75 Chris Frome DL 6-5 76 Bob Morton OL 6-4 77 Michael Turkovich OL 6-6 78 John Sullivan OL 6-4 79 Brian Mattes OL 6-6 81 Rob Woods WR 6-2 82 Mat! Shelton WR 6-0 83 )effSamardzija WR 6-5 84 Michael O'Hara WR 5-10 85 TE 6-4 85 
~fe~~=~ico TE 6-5 87 Marcus Freeman TE 6-3 88 Anthony Fasano TE 6-5 89 john Carlson TE 6-5 90 Brian Beidatsch DL 6-3 91 Craig Cardillo K 6-0 92 Derrell Hand DL 6-3 93 Dan Chervanick DL 6-1 94 Justin Brown DL 6-3 95 Victor Abiamiri DL 6-4 96 K 6-0
~~~~C:~nkes
96 DL 6-2 
98 Trevor Laws DL 6-1 
99 Ronald Talley DL 6-4 

Record: 1-0 AP: 20 Coaches: 23 Notre Dame Fighting Irish 

Charlie Weis first season at 
NOTRE DAME 
Notre Dame 
2005 Schedule
career record: 
1-0 
Sept. 3 at Pittsburgh-W 
at Notre Dame: 
1-0 
Sept.lO at Michigan CharlieWeis 
against head coach Michigan: 0-0 


Wt. YR 198 FR 200 so 221 so 215 SR 199 FR 192 so 188 so 203 JR 231 JR 170 FR 207 SR 207 FR 196 FR 186 so 238 SR 186 SR 196 FR 219 JR 
Nov.19 SYRACUSE 
206 SR 188 so 222 SR 
Nov.26 at Stanford
197 JR 203 JR 
170 178 237 188 215 187 205 189 190 193 187 232 180 186 200 247 180 198 190 187 183 236 220 234 231 233 250 183 213 234 240 220 220 290 212 242 293 238 252 220 265 238 242 304 305 263 288 260 280 292 311 292 268 292 290 298 285 208 172 216 180 253 245 245 255 255 294 174 301 259 247 260 195 267 293 261 
so so SR so JR FR JR FR JR SR SR SR 
so so jR )R JR SR FR SR so SR so FR FR SR FR JR JR SR jR jR JR SR JR SR SR )R jR so SR JR so SR FR SR JR SR SR FR SR SR SR SR FR JR SR SR SR JR SR FR 
so 
SR 
SR 
SR 
SR 
JR 
FR 
SR 
so 
JR 
JR 
FR 
JR 
so 
QUARTERBACKS 
Brady Quinn looked every bit the star he is expected to be when he went 14-of-16 in the first half against the Panthers. He connected with seven different receivers last week for 227 yards. This is his third year at the helm of the Irish offense but his first under Weis. 
Sophomore Chad Henne is back after a breakout freshman season when he amassed 2,743 passing yards and tied a school recor.d with 25 scoring passes. Last week he was 20-for-31 with 227 yards and two touchdowns. Senior Matt Gutierrez is the backup. 
The Irish line is one of two.of the most tale:jj,.ted 
Quinn and Henne a.re 
the most experH~11¢M quarterbacks ii(:''otbe 
ever at Notre Dame; Tiley dominated PittsburghJast week and hope to do the same to Michlgan, W4J.ker will impress Jan5 e'. with a:nother standout performance,like his two~ 

touchdown debut against fall baekon. <:r shreV\I(l.;playcall}.rig to
~~i~:~''' 
theWillverines in 2004. 
IRISH RUSHING IRISH PASSING 
Darius Walker will start for the Irish after racking up 100 yards and two touch­downs on 20 carries against Pittsburgh. Rashon Powers­Neal scored a career-high three touchdowns at full­back last week, and his straight-ahead attitude complements Walker's flashy style. 
Michigan surrendered 211 yards and two scores last week against Northern Illinois. Tackle Gabe Watson and end Pat Massey return as starters for the Wolverines but accounted for only four total tackles Saturday as the squad gave up 4.3 yards per rush. 

Brady Quinn was effi­cient last week-a prod­uct of his experience and Charlie Weis' playcalling. Fasano, an All-America candidate at tight end. caught four passes for 42 yards against Pittsburgh. Rhema McKnight and Maurice Stovall are solid outlets for Quinn.  
Leon Hall is a preseason all-Big Ten cornerback pick and intercepted a pass as Michigan held Northern Illinois to 200 yards and zero scores through the air. The loss of cornerback Marlin Jackson and strong satety Ernest Shazor to the draft will hurt.  
The Irish pass offense looked perfect last week in the. first half. Quinn :will try to spread the receptions around again. Michigan's secondary g~:~.ve up 200 yards to Northern Illinois and will have problems if they play like that against Notre Dame.  

COACHING 
Charlie Weis' honeymoon stay with the Irish was
LLI 

extended after the 42-21
:E 

win over Pittsburgh. His
ct 

offensive knowledge is unmatched, especially at 
0 
LLI 

the college level. This is his
0:: 
1­

biggest test yet-no Notre
0 

Dame head coach has won
z 

in Michigan Stadium since Lou Holtz in 1993. 
Lloyd Carr is 96-29 in his 11th year as head coach at Michigan. Before that he spent 17 years as a Wolverine assistant and his experience shows ­he boasts a 59-6 record in the Big House. He has led Michigan to nine straight New Year's Day bowl games. 


Carr has dropped just six home matchups during 
U) 
U)­
~ 
ct 
z 
<C 


advantage. 

Michigan provides the ultimate barometer for 
The Irish will keep this one close, but 
Michigan's offense is too good. The Wolverines Notre Dame's progress from last season. Both squads will score a lot in the first half. and the will control the clock on the legs of Mike Hart.

Irish 

Chad Henne will recover from his last outing running games. After the Irish tie the game 
second half will become a slugfest between 
against the Irish and find tight end Tim with a last second field goal, D.J. Fitzpatrick 
Massaquoi enough. Notre Dame puts up a good

experts fight, but Michigan is just too good. 
seals the deal in the extra period. 
Heather Van FINAL SCORE: Michigan 31


FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34
Pat Leonard Hoegarden Notre Dame 14Michigan 31 (OT)
Managing Editor AME 
Friday, September 9, 2005 The Observer+ SPORTS page 5 

HEAD 
Michigan Wolverines 

WOLVERINES RUSHING 
Tlw Irish held Pittsburgh to only 103 yards rushing-with 51 coming on one play. Trevor Laws and Derek Landri anchor a unit that ranked No. 4 in the country last y(~ar against thP run. Laws and Chris Fronw madP thnir first rarPnr starts Saturday. 
MikP llart surprisPd fans by averaging 117 yards pnr game last season as a rn~shman. lie is joined in tlw back field by f'n~shman Kevin Grady. t\ big ofl'ensive line will help the Wolverines try to improve on their 208 yard per game average of last season. 
llart is an exdting back for Miehigan but wasn't particularly spectacular playing against Northern Illinois. Laws and Landri havn the potential to be the best Notre Dame int(~rior line in a decade. t\biamiri and Frome will keep Hart bottled up and prevent thn big play. 
Notre Dame's secondary 
D.J. Fitzpatrick wasn't 
remains the biggest 
needed to kick a field 
question mark on the 
goal last week but made 
team despite holding 
all six PATs. His three 
Pittsburgh star Greg 
punts averaged 45.7 
Lee to only one scoring 
yards. Tom Zbikowski 
catch last Saturday. 
looked explosive on his 
t\mbrosP Wooden had 
23-yard punt return. 
12 tackles and Mike 
The kick coverage team 
Hichardson had thren 
pleased Weis by tallying 
againsllhP l'antlwrs. 
a fumbiP rncovery. 
Steve Breaston enters the
Chad llenne has many 
season eighth on the Big
options at receiver. But 
Ten career punt return
leading the way is t\11­
yardage list with 911 yards.
t\merican candidate 
Senior Hoss Hyan is in his
Steve Breaston and team 
first year as starting punter. 
captain Jason Avant. 
He knocked live of seven
t\vant caught nine pass­
kickoffs through the end
es last week for 127 
zone last week and also
yards and one touch­
recovered a fumble after
down. Tim Massaquoi is 
his own 41-yard kick.
steady at tight end. 
The Irish secondary, 
Fitzpatrick is improving as 
despite a strong showing 
a punter and Zbikowski 
last week, is still young 
has potential to be an elec­
and inexperienced. Avant 
tric punt returner. But 
and Breaston are potent 
Breaston is the next in a 
weapons for Henne. If they 
long line of great Michigan 
can find a seam in Notre 
kick returners and his 
Dame coach Bill Lewis' 
ability to score from any­
game plan, it will be a long 
where on the field gives 
afternoon for Wooden and 
the Wolverines an upper 
Hichardson. 
hand. 


Sept. 3 N ILLINOIS -W  
Sept. 10 NOTRE DAME  
Sept. 17 E MICHIGAN  
Sept. ~4 .· ~;t4,:w.~·~.. . .  atWI~~onsin . ; :;)~ixl1iJi/;!A,« 

Oct.l. ... "........ at MIChigan.~tate Oct. Oct. Oct. 22 at Iowa Oct. 29 at Northwestern Nov. 12 INDIANA Nov. 19 OHIO STATE 
MICHIGAN 2005 Schedule 
WOLVERINES PASSING SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
Michigan  is  the  No.  3  
team in the nation and  
has an all-star backfield with Hart and Henne.  s  
Lloyd Carr has only lost  (")  
six times at home in his  ::J:- 
career,  and  returner  C)  
Steve Breaston has the  )>  
ability  to  fire  up  the  2  
crowd  with  a  special  
teams touchdown.  

Notre Dame is hot and wants to prove it is one of the top teams ih the nation. And the lower 
l> 
2

ranked team has won five 
)>

of the past eight 
!:(

matchups. However, 
(/)

Michigan's home field 
-
(/)

advantage and Henne's smart, heady play gives the Wolverirws an edge. 
Michigan 
Wolvennes Record: 1-0 
AP: 3 Coaches: 3 
Lloyd Carr 11th season at Michigan career record: 
96-29 
at Michigan: 
96-29 

against Notre Dame: 3-3 
Roster 
Lloyd Carr head coach 

Notre Dame couldn't be any more confident going into Michigan Stadium. The offense performed flawlessly the first half at Pittsburgh and Quinn and Walker look like t\11­Americans. They would love to lnad Notre Dame to its first win in tlw Big llousP in I 2 years. 
z 
0 
..... 
::c 
"" 
c 
)> 
s 
"" 
No. 2 3 3 4 5 6 7 8 8 9 12 12 
n 
lJ 14 14 l'i l'i 16 17 17 18 18 19 19 20 21 22 22 23 24 25 26 26 27 27 28 28 29 31 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 37 38 38 39 40 41 
.)2 
43 .j4.j.j .j'i .j<; .j(> 
.j<) 
.j') 
~0 
; l 
'i4 
':)(l 
'>7 60 60 
bl 
62 
62 
64 
65 66 67 67 68 69 70 71 71 72 73 74 75 76 
77 
78 78 
79 
80 81 
82 
83 83 85 86 88 89 90 'll 92 9.j 
~, 
96 
~7 
97 
99 
Name Pos.  Ht.  Wt. YR  
Shawn Crable  OLB  6-5  247  JR  
Kevin Grady  RB  5-9  228  fR  
~~~~!~1~ood  l' CB  6.0 5"11  206 190  SR SR  
Charles Stewart  CB  6·1  194  so  
Prescott Burgess  I B  6·3  243  JR  
Chad Henne  QB  6-2  225  so  
jason Avant  WR  6·1  213  SR  
Matt Wilde  (.)B  6·2  19'\  SR  
Anton Camphell  s  5-11  198  JR  
M01tt GutJf"rrl'7.  Qll  b-4  2~2  SR  
LmdonSm1th jell KaSII  WR (.)B  'i-H 6-)  167 223  JR SR  
Lr.:mt Milson  ( ll  6.0  196  SR  
ryrone Jord;>.n 11  WR  ;-10  186  )R  
Morg~u1 frent  CB  6-0  18'i  so  
Steve Bn.•,lston  WR  I>· I  178  SR  
Ch1p ( .MI\Vrlght  IUl  b-0  2.11  ~R  
Adrian Arnn~ton  WR  6·3  187  <;(,)  
jilmes Blooms ,urgh  I'K  5-10  208  SR  
Carl T,1bb  WR  6-2  192  SR  
Antomo Bass  WR  6.0  197  FR  
Ben Wnght  WR  5·9  182  so  
Willis Barringer  s  6.()  207  SR  
jason ForCier  QB  6-2  214  FR  
Mtke Hart  RB  5-9  192  so  
Ryan Mundy  s  6-1  204  JR  
Jamar Adams  s  6-2  208  so  
~~:~~n~er  CB RB  5-10 6-1  167 215  JR so  
Jerome Jackson  RB  5-11  200  JR  
Johnny Sears Jr.  CB  6-1  175  FR  
~ik~Jl::idley  RB s  5-6 6.0  176 206  SR SR  
Shakir Edwards  DB  6-()  207  so  
Brandon Harrison  CB  5-11  198  FR  
DM Moore  ILB  6.0  226  JR  
Chris Richards  CB  5-11  175  fR  
Leon Hall  CB  5-11  191  JR  
Branden! Englemon  s  5-11  202  JR  
Craig Moore  l'K  5-10  181  SR  
Mister Simpson  RB  6.0  220  FR  
Scott Hamel Jason Gingell  RB PK  5-10 5-9  207 183  SR so  
Brian Thompson  FB  6-2  230  SR  
Scott McClintock  1LB  6-2  246  SR  
Chris Graham  ILB  5-11  225  so  
}.1mes LogM  DB  5-10  179  so  
B.). Opong-Owusu  s  5-11  196  SR  
Garrett Ri\' as  I'K  5-9  216  JR  
Andre C nswell  FB  6-1  248  FR  
~~~\~';:t.;;~o  Fll l'  6.0 6-4  237 225  SR FR  
Chris Mri..'\Urin  1 B  6-4  21'i  FR  
M.uk S\wncer  I'  6.0  223  SR  
),1Son E dndgl'  Rl!  5-8  IH~  SR  
(1m Ml"Kinll('\'  Rll!  6·3  2b'i  FR  
Br <1d ( ISt:hkc.•  WI<  h-4  209  SR  
ll<1nd IIMn'i  llll  h-2  l4h  ~R  
Hr .lnt.hm I 11):!..11\  Ill  h·l  21H  FR  
john I hompc;un  II B  (1-()  124  '{I  
1-rn \'an Ht•t.•l<.. lNt.'lll\' \,m t\1!-t\'l'h'  I'll Ill  h-0 (>..j  lllH lhl  '{) ~I{  
1--rlt·.\ht•t-.  Ill  h-0  130  'I~  
~lMk Bihl  lll  h-:;  lll1  <;I{  
I .1M.ur Woodh.•v  Rl B  h·l  2hH  II~  
Adam Kr.lu~  lll  6-{•  Jll  Jl{  
f'atnc~ Lyilll  llL  h.O  2H'l  <;()  
D.wt• Moosman  01.  h-5  275  I·R  
Tmrler Hooth  1.5  6-2  260  ,.;i{  
l"tm MrAvov  01.  6-5  275  FR  
Jon Sa•g:  ·  OL  6-5  287  so  
Grant  Bt•nt•dJctis  01.  6-5  294  <;(,)  
Leo Henige, Jr.  OL  6-4  3.19  SR  
Paul SarMtos  DT  6·3  261  SR  
Matt Lentz  OL  6-6  305  SR  
Terrance Taylor  DT  6-2  295  FR  
l'alrick Sharrow  OL  6-4  301  JR  
David Schoonover  Ol  6-3  297  SR  
~~mtrft}\~1a  OL LS  b-4 6·3  300 242  so so  
Mark Ortmann  OL  6-7  285  I'R  
~r:~·~i~~:t  OL OL  6-3 6-5  304 319  SR so  
Brett Gallimore  OL  6-4  309  so  
Corey Zirbel  OL  6·7  305  FR  
Mike Kolodzie1  OL  6-7  328  SR  
jake Long  OL  6-7  338  JR  
Justin Schafano  Ol  b-5  295  FR  
Gabe Watson  DT  6-4  331  SR  
Adam STen,wich  01.  6·5  317  SR  
Alan Branch  Dl  6-6  311  ~  
Doug Dutrh  WR  5·11  191  so  
LaTerryal Savoy  WR  b-3  200  FR  
K.C. l~1ata  I'K  6-2  1'10  so  
Mike  assey  TE  6·3  232  so  
Carson Butler Jr.  TE  6-4  245  FR  
Mano Mannm~ham  WR  6·1  185  Fll  
lim Mass,ll}liOI  TE  6-4  2.j8  SR  
lVler E<k<•r  TF  b-{•  2'\1  ~R  
lim Jamison  Rl.B  b·~  250  Sl1  
~~n~~e~~ ;~:,~tls  IJE Ill  6·3 h·.'  270 211-1  <;R IR  
P.lt :0..1,1S5l'\'  Ill  Cl~H  lH.j  '-il{  
:Vt.1r~.!ut•s W.1lh111  Ill  6~)  2HO  <;()  
Fu~l·nt·<.t•rm.1n\·  lll  {l~ l  l:;t;  1·1<  
\1\11 lohn.,on  Ill  (•..j  1~7  >.,()  
\ '·" Pull~"' kPtt.•rrt• \-V~xld'  lllll lll ll  h-1 h-l  11.' 1-17  Jl< ~R  



Mike Gllloon 
Sports Hditor 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 9, 2005 

Sizing up the Irish and the Wolverines 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE MICHIGAN'S OFFENSE 
vs vs
AVERAGE PER GAME MICHIGAN'S DEFENSE NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 

total yards gained 
total yards allowed 


rushing yards gained 

.......2751 
rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained passing yards allowed 


kick return yards gained ~ 
-..'-----_

kick return yards allowed 

c=== sol 
punt return yards gained L 231 
0 

punt return yards allowedl..lc-1-------=-=-.J 
0 





NOTRE DAME 
DEFENSIVE LINE 
Notre Dame tackles Trevor Laws, above, and Derek Landri plugged the interior last week to hold Pittsburgh to 103 yards rushing. 
Left end Victor Abiamiri tallied six tackles and one sack against the Panthers. Abiamiri's pressure of Michigan quarterback Chad Henne could make the difference in the game. 
Ends Ronald Talley and Justin Brown filled in nicely in backup roles last week -each recording two tackles. 
Senior Brian Beidatsch brings expe­rience and depth in a reserve role. 
MICHIGAN 
OFFENSIVE LINE 
Michigan's offensive line is big, athletic and experienced. 
Fifth year seniors Adam Stenavich, above, Leo Henige and Matt Lentz anchor a unit averaging 317 pounds per man. 
Center Adam Kraus spearheaded the line as they enabled back Mike Hart to rush for 117 yards and one touchdown last week against Northern Illinois. 
Tackles Stenavich and Mike Kolodziej will need to hold their ground and protect quarterback Chad Henne from the grasp of Abiamiri and fellow Irish end Chris Frome. 


Friday, September 9, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Powers-Neal adapts well to position change 
Eager to improve, Powers­me look good." 
By MATT PUGLISI 
Neal pushed himself through As valuable as he is at full­
Associate Sports Editor 
summer workouts. back, Powers-Neal offers an lie foeused on increasing his effective change of pace from 
Wlwn asked to play dual power while maintaining the sharp, cutting style of roles, most athlntes lind thnm­quickness. Walker. snlves constantly rearranging And the hard work paid off. "I think that !Darius and II tlwir thought procoss. Playing either running back bring a lot of the same things, 
Not Irish fullback/running or fullback depending upon the but he kind of makes things bac:k Hashem Powers-Neal. situation, Powers-Neal is l'ind­happen, and I'm just more of a "!My mentality! doesn't ing himself in the middle of the downhill runner," Powers-Neal 
change at all," he sai-d. action. said. 
So what exaetly is he think­And every time he takes tho "I just run hard." ing wlwn the Irish l'ield, he's becom­A quiet leader, Powers-Neal entnr the rod ing a little more provides an example for the zone? "/ try to bring confident he can team's younger players ­
"Just gnt it in handle the traits that will undo.ubtedly
experience to
the end zono." responsibility that come in handy when the Irish
all the other 
l'owers-Ncml said. accompanies take the field in front of over "Cot it in thorn as players." playing two posi­110,000 fans at Michigan soon as possible." tions. Stadium. 
Mission aceom­''I'm pretty "Not too many people have
Rashon Powers-Neal
plished. comfortable with played in the Big House before,
Irish fullback
Carrying the !the dual role!." so I just try to tell the younger ball eight times Powers-Neal said. guys to stay calm," Powers­against Pittsburgh "Each day I'm Neal said. Saturday -many of them getting more comfortable with "I try to bring experience to inside tho Panthers' 10-yard it. It's tough trying to learn all the other players." linn -l'owors-Noal's strong everything and trying to ge! all As important as last goal linn snnse was on display. the plays down, but it's also a Saturday's game was for 
Tlw l'ifth-yoar senior pound­lot of fun to be able to go out Powers-Neal on a personal ed his way to pay dirt on throe there and just contribute and level and the Irish as a team, difTnrnnt occasions, tying his help the team any way possi­Powers-Neal has refused to let camPI" rushing touchdown total ble. the early-season success go to in less than half a gamo. ''I'm just enjoying it right his head. 
But af'ter soeing time at full­now." "I try to just stay level and baek each of tho past three A punishing blocker, Powers­keep to myself and do the .. years, Powcws-Neal wasn't sure Neal has been instrumental in things that I've been doing what to expect heading into tho opening holes for fellow run­every week," he said. 2()()fi SPason. ning back Darius Walker. "You've got to take each 
"I didn't rnally know how But Powers-Neal said block­game by itself-last week has mueh I'd be used ... so I just ing for Walker isn't as demand­nothing to do with this week, stayod opon and ready for any ing as one might expect. so we just have to go out there situation," Powers-Neal said. "My thing is just to get onto and play hard." 
"/\11 I eould do was go out my guy and stick onto him, and thern and eontinue to work Darius will do the rest," Contact Matt Puglisi at hard and do my best." Powers-Neal said. "He'll make mpuglisi@nd.edu 

0-line, running game key Wolverine attack 

By PAT LEONARD Sports Writer 
While Notre Dame exploded with a 35-point first half against Pittsburgh last Saturday, Michigan was also making a statement of its own. 
The Wolverines scored 27 first half points against unranked Northern Illinois on the same day, all but sealing the win early and allowing coach Lloyd Carr to run the ball -and the clock. 
"Last year 
scored

they ried the ball 27
"/ am not expecting
over 30 points times for 11 7 a game, and just to see what yards and one 
last week was they did last week touchdown while 
no different freshman and
against Northern 
scoring the Michigan high
Illinois.,,
33," Notre school phenom Dame coach Kevin Grady regis­Charlie Weis tered 42 yards on
Charlie Weis 
said. "They nine carries and a
Irish coach
have a lot of weapons." 

Michigan's style of offensive play prioritizes a strong run­ning game whic.h sets up a more experienced, and possi­bly improved, passing game. Though last season's leading receiver Brayton Edwards (97 catches, 1,330 yards, 15 touchdowns) is departed to the NFL, Michigan retains a solid core on its offense. 
Sophomore quarterback Chad Henne, who started all 12 games his freshman sea­son, opened the 2005 season completing 20-of-31 passes for 227 yards and two touch­downs, throwing no intercep­tions. 
Sophomore running back Mike Hart, who saw limited action in Notre Dame's 28-20 victory at Notre Dame Stadium last season (five carries, 17 yards), also holds onto the ball well. 
"My biggest concern with Hart is in 283 touches in a row, he has not fumbled the ball," Weis said. "So obviously he's very good at ball posses­sion, which was a critical fac­tor in their win last week." 
Michigan did not turn the ball over against Northern Illinois. Hart car­
touchdown of his 

own. Jerome Jackson-who started last sea­son against Notre Dame and carried the ball 15 times before getting injured -also saw action in the backfield behind Henne. 
"Any time you can put two or three guys in there that have different types of abilities, I think it creates issues for the defense," Michigan coach Lloyd Carr said. "You still have to block them, but certainly we've got three guys in there." 
To make up for Edwards' departure, veteran wide receivers Jason Avant and Steve Breaston lead the way as Henne's primary targets. 
Avant caught nine balls for 127 yards and a touchdown last week, while Breaston grabbed five passes for 42 yards and a touchdown. 
Michigan's strength, howev­er, lies in pounding opponents into the ground with the run­ning game. And Notre Dame's strength on defense -last sea­son and this season as well ­has been its run defense. 
"Defensively, I like their line­backnrs," Michigan coach Llyod Carr said. "They're very athletic and they get to the football well." 
Linebackers Brandon lloyte, Corey Mays and Maurice Crum, Jr. will focus more on running backs in Saturday's game than in any matehup the rest of' the season, with the exception of' facing Navy's option attack. 
Boyte was second on the team in tackles last weekend with nine total, six of them solo and 4? for a loss against a fresh Pittsburgh squad. Weis said Notre Dame will have to adjust on defense bocause he expects the well-coached Wolverines, like his own Irish team, to show new offensive schemes and plays. 
"''m not expecting just to see what they did last week against Northern Illinois," Weis said. "They are not expecting for us just to do what we did against Pittsburgh. 
"I think that we have to both be ready to adjust on the fly." 
Contact Pat Leonard at pleonard@nd.edu 

page 8 The Observer+ PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, September 9, 2005 
~Merrill Lynch 

SHARE OUR PASSION MERRILL LYNCH PRESENTATION 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME seniors are invited to attend: Tuesday, September 13, 2005 6:00-8:00 pm Center for Continuing Education, McKenna Hall, Room 102 
Whether you look at us in terms of people, culture, products or our virtually limitless possibilities, Merrill Lynch defines "exceptional" in every sense of the word. It's a source of pride for all of us who work here. And a source of exceptional careers for those eager to share in our passion for doing great things. 
Attend our presentation. And let's explore the possibilities together. 
. Full-time opportunities: Investment Banking 
EXCEPTIONAL WITHOUT EXCEPTION 







