----~------------------~~------------------------------------------------------~-------------~­
THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
Jenkins inauguration underway 
Panelists discuss the global role ofreligion 
By MARY KATE MALONE News Writer 
As part of thn inauguration of Fathnr .John .Jenkins, the University hosted tho Notro Damn Forum Thursday at the .Joye1~ Centnr to join internation­al roligious lnadnrs with Notre Dame rnprnsentativns and dis­russ tlw rolo of faith in the mod­«'rn world. in what organizers hope will boeornn an annual 
IWfllll. 
l<'ormnr NBC nnws anchor Torn Brokaw modorated the forum, nntitlnd "Why God'! Undnrstanding Heligion and l~nacting Faith in a Plural World". 
"I bnlinve thn issuos that are hnfon~ us, tlwsn an~ tho most critical issuos not just in this c:ountry but in thn global com­munity," Brokaw said. 
Tlw forum lwgan with an hour-long discussion among four 
see FORUM/page 4 

Above, Father John Jenkins greets staffmembers. At left, Jenkins stands with Tom Brokaw at the Notre Dame Forum.
•

PHOTOS BY CLAIRE KELLEY AND KERRY O'CONNOR 
Jenkins speaks to NO staffat nwrning meal 
By MADDIE HANNA A~sociate News Editor 

University staff members started Thursday bright and early with jelly, jam and University Prnsident Father J.ohn Jonkins in the Joyce Center. 
"You arn the foundation of what we do," .Jenkins told staff at a breakfast that kieknd ofT his inauguration weekend. "Notre Danw is you. thn peo­ple who work horn." 
.lenkins recalled letters writ­ten by Univorsity foundor Father Edward Sorin about the six Holy Cross brothnrs who served as his staff. 
"lie realiznd that they wen~ critical to what Notre Damn would become," .Jenkins said. "You are the successors of those pnople who work1~d so hard to build Notre Damn." 
lie focused on "the spirit or 
see BRUNCH/page 6 

Protesters gather outside J.A.C.C. to make statement against cardinal's presence at forum 
By MADDIE HANNA Associate News Editor 
Five hundred leaflets protest­ing Cardinal Oscar Andres Hodriguez Maradiaga's presence on campus were quietly distrib­utiJd to the throngs of people who flocked to Thursday's Notre Damn Forum at the .Joycn Center. 
Tho Survivors Nntwork of thosn /\bused by Priests (SNAP) president Barbara Blainn said members wanted to make a statnnwnt against Honduran archbishop Rodriguez, who accused U.S. media in 2002 of eovering the Church's sex abuse scandal in ways "reminiscent more of' Stalin and Hitler." 
"We arc really concerned that Cardinal Hodriguez is being hon­ored to speak here on Notre Damp,'s campus," Blaine said, critieizing Rodriguez for never apologizi~g for his "disparaging remarks. 
Blaine said Rodriguez's pres­ence at the Forum was made worsn given Notre Dame's char­aetnr. 
"Notre Dame is holding itself out as a university that fosters or values inquiry or discussion," she said. "We believe that state­ments like Cardinal Hodriguez's do just the opposite. It's deterred other vietims from coming for­ward." 
R. Scott Appleby, Forum organ­izer and director of the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, said Hodriguez was cho­sen by the Inaugural Committee as a representative from the internal Catholic hierarchy. 
Appleby said Rodriguez, "a 
friend of the University for some time," had not been expected to create controversy. 
"It's unfortunate that the com­ments he made in 2002 havn obscured a lifelong commitment to social justice and care for the poor," Appleby said. 
Although Appleby said Hodriguez' past comments did not pertain to the Forum's topic, "Why God? Understanding Religion and Enacting Faith in a Plural World," Blaine disagreed. 
"It's interesting," Blaine said. "There is a concern for Catholic values outside of the Church, but not within the Church ... We are the faithful Catholic sons and daughters who wore raped and sodomized by priests that our parents trusted." 
Blaine said SNAP, a national organization with 5,700 mem­bers and chapters in 60 cities, did not contact Notre Damn directly about its plans, but did inform Appleby "out ilf courtesy." 
University spokesman Matt Storin said "while in an ideal 
see PROTEST/page 4 


County Council votes against coal company 
By SARAH WHEATON News Writer 
"Thank Cod our govnrnrnnnt still works!" was the exulted cry of Nnw Carlisle resid11nt Bonnin J>eMynr after the Saint .Jost1ph County Coundl voted 7 to 2 Thursday to block the building of Tondu Corporation's proposed integratnd gasifica­tion combined cydn (IGCC) coal plant. 
In what one mnmbnr called thn most difTieult dncision he had to make in his 25 years on thn Coundl, tho group made a surprisingly strong stand against tho plant that was slat­ed to bn built in Nnw Carlisle. 
Otw councilman in particular shoeknd rnsidents by switching his vote at the last minute to help defeat the plant. 
The h-ighly controversial issue attracted strong public interest, and the Thursday mneling was so full that people had to sit in the hallway and strain to hear. The meeting was ealled to order several times after spontaneous bouts of applause broke out after each eouncil member who voted against building the plant. 
Several councilmen said they had heard the people's "pleas" and cited strong public opposi­tion as a reason for their vote. Those who did support the plant cited the possibility of decreased pollutants over time 
see COAL /page 4 
SMC to hold Vatican II conference 
By KELLY MEEHAN News Writer 
To commemorate the 40th Anniversary of the Second Vatican Council, Saint Mary's will be holding a two-day conference today and Saturday focusing on the Council's legacy, lead­ership and its unfinished agenda. 
Sister Kathleen Dolphin coordinator of the Vatican II conference ­

Woodruff

said the forum will be comprised of con­versation groups led by various speakers who will present the audience with opening commen­taries regarding gender issues in the church, the role of the Church in today's world and intercultural issues. 
The first discussion group will begin today at 9:30 a.m. in Moreau Little Theater, followed by a second group set to begin at 
1:30 p.m. The discussion groups will continue on Saturday morn­ing at 9:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. Both will bn held in Carroll Auditorium in Madeleva Hall. 
"This is a very important event for both Catholics and non­Catholics interested in ecu­menism -especially during these thread-baring years of' Catholicism," Dolphin said. 
The keynote event will take place tonight at 7 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium, where CNN journalist Judy Woodruff will be hosting "In Conversation with Council Participants." Guest speakers at the event will include Bishop Hemi Joseph De Hoo, a voting participant at the Council. lie is one of approxi­mately eight surviving bishops of the 2,500 who voted at tlw Coundl. 
Also participating in tonight's conversation will be Fathnr Gustavo Gutierrnz, an obsnrvnr at Vatican II and Notre Dame theology professor; Fathnr Hobert Pnlton, advisor to Cardinal Summnns at tlw Coundl and Fellow at the Kellogg Institute; Sister Carmnl McEnroy, author of "Gunsts in Their Own Ilouse: The Women of Vatiean II;" Gregory Baum, official observer of the Coundl and fac­ulty of religious studies at MeGill University; and Martin Marty, o!licial Protestant observer at the Council and l.utlwran ministf\r. 
Choosing Judy Woodruff to lead the central conversation was a primary goal fill' Dolphin. who worked to securn a high­profile female proctor highly 
see VATICAN/page 6 
page 2 
INSIDE COLUMN 
E111brace the 


alternative 
The one piece of advice my grand­mother gave to me before I left for col­lege was this: Don't let girls hit on you. 
Going into college, my worries involved handling the workload, making 
new friends and  
adjusting to life  Kaitlynn Riely  
away from home  
for the first time.  
The idea that I  Wzre Editor  
would arrive at  
Notre Dame and be  

barraged with girls interested in more than friendship never crossed my mind, though it was a worry that obviously plagued my grandmother. 
I went to a fairly liberal Catholic high school, so I believe I have been exposed to people from a wider variety of back­grounds than my grandmother had been at the same point in her life. 
In high school, I had several gay male friends, and I enjoyed the dimension they brought to my life. I spent many Friday nighl'i checking out guys with my gay male friends in Washington, D.C., and though at times I felt like my social life was an episode of "Will and Grace," the friendships I made in high school with those Jiving "alternative lifestyles" enriched my own life and taught me how to embrace those with lifestyles and views contrary to my own. 
My grandmother does not need to worry about any uninvited advances by girls at Notre Dame. The societal prefer­ence towards heterosexual relationships is announced first at Frosh-0 as the guys' dorms run around serenading the girls' dorms. Students made painfully aware their lack of tolerance and respect for the gay community at the pep rally by showing their distaste toward Zahm by calling it gay. 
A gay or lesbian lifestyle may be toler­ated, but perhaps not embraced and is certainly not a common sight on the Notre Dame campus. I have heard peo­ple joke that parietals encourage homo­sexuality, but I can testifY that the orgies do not break out when the boys leave ­at least not in my dorm. 
But the University does make an effort to encourage its students to tolerate the alternative lifestyle. Uke all freshman, I recently attended a presentation given by the Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs. Two students related their stories of how they "came out of the closet" and shared the experi­ences they have had as homosexual stu­dents at Notre Dame. I am sure that other homosexual students attend the university, and I hope that all students can work towards embracing these members of the NO family so we can move down from the No. 2 spot on The Princeton Review's "Alternative Lifestyles Not an Alternative" list. 
Perhaps one day Notre Dame will be comfortable with the situation my grandmother warned me of. 
Contact Kaitlyn Reily at kriely@nd. edu 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
CORRECTIONS 
In the Sept. 21 edition ofThe Observer, specifics 
regarding the inauguration ceremonies of Father John Jenkins were reported inaccurately. The invesri­rure will rake place in rhe Joyce Cenrer and nor in fronr of rhe Main Building as a fronr-page article indica red. Additionally, I 00 priests-nor I 0 ­will concelebrare ar roday's inaugural Mass at the 
Basilica. The Observer regrers rhese errors. 
The Observer regards irself as a professional publica­tion and srrives for rhe highesr standards of journal­ism ar all rimes. We do, however, recognize rhar we will make misrakes. Ifwe have made a misrake, please conracr us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

--~----~ ---------------------------------------------------------------~~----------------~.---~ 
Friday, September 23, 2005 
The Observer+ PAGE 2 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD STUDY ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD, WHERE WOULD YOU AND WHY'? 



Juan Ousset  Gillian Wiescher  Ray Fast  
sophomore  junior  sophomore  
Siegfried  offcampus  Stanford  
"Mexico-the  "Sweden  "Australia  
real/and ofthe  because my best  because it's  
free."  girlfriend lives  right on the  
there and l  ocean.  
want my  
children to be  
taller with blue  
eyes.  

Baker writes 'Da Vlnci'­based diet book 
PORTLAND, Maine -A baker who lost half his busi­ness to the low-carb craze has written a book based on 
• the mathematical principles of the Golden Ratio, a formu­la used by Leonardo Da Vmci and made popular in the best seller, "The Da Vinci Code." Stephen Lanzalotta creat­ed what he called the "Da Vmci Diet" in response to the decline in bread consump­tion brought on by the popu­larity of the Atkins Diet. 
The diet consists mostly of Mediterranean foods, 'includ­ing bread, fish, cheese, veg-

is God-like and beautiful. " 

Matt Donnelly  Patrick Brown  Ben Wilson  
junior Stanford  sophomore Morrissey  senior Sorin  
"Austria because Lukas Madersbacher  "Michigan, because it's been exiled to  "Rome because just like Saint Peter's it rocks. "  

Canada.,, 
IN BRIEF 

Hammes Mowbray Hall, the new building of the ND Security Police and the campus post office, will be dedicated today at 9 a.m. by Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
More than 100 visiting priests and bishops will concelebrate the inaugural Mass today at 10 
a.m. in The Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Tickets are required for seating. 
Domer Run will take place Saturday at 11 a.m. Runners ean choose between a 6-mile and a 3-mile race. There is also a 2­mile walk. Race day registration and check in is at Legends. 
The classic 1941 film "Citizen Kane" will be shown Saturday at 3 p.m. in Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $6 for faculty and $3 for students. 
The Notre Dame women's vol­leyball team faces off against Seton Hall Sunday at 1 p.m. at the Joyce Center. 
Farley Hall will present "What Would You Do for 2 Purdue Tickets?" on Monday at 5 p.m. on North Quad. Students can register proposed acts in both dining halls before Sunday night or on the first floor of Farley. All acts must be approved at the time of sign up. 
Pulitzer Prize winner Steve Coll will present a lecture titled "Inside the Hunt for Osama Bin Laden" at 7 p.m. on Thursday, Sept. 29 in the Jordan Auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd. edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 


~ 
HIGH 65 HIGH 65 LOW 47 LOW 48 

KERRY O'CONNOR/The Observer 
Brenna Burn performs at an intimate coffeehouse-style concert featuring guitar solos and literary readings at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center Thursday as part of the festivities surrounding the presidential inauguration of Father John Jenkins. 
OFFBEAT 

after the birth of a third 
child, Prime Minister 
Dominique de Villepin 
announced at the close of a 
national conference on fam­
ilies. 

It will take effect in July 2006. De Villepin said he believed the measure will ·appeal to "numerous par­ents" and allow for a "better reconciliation of profession­
al and family rhythms." 
"We must do more to 
allow French families to 
have as many children as 
they want," the prime min­
ister said. 

Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
etable:;;, meat, nuts and wine. 
He signed a deal last year with Warner Books, a divi­sion of Time Warner Book Group, that included a six­figure advance. 
France offers money to third-time parents 
PARIS -France annou­nced financial incentives Thur:;day for parents to have a third child, hoping to boost its fertility rate by helping people to better jug­gle the demands of work and family life. 
A new measure will award $916 a month to par­ents who take one year's unpaid leave from work 
TODAY TONIGHT SATURDAY SUNDAY 0:: 
1.&.1 
:c 
~ 
1.&.1 

3: 
.... 
c( 
(,) 


0 

HIGH 68 HIGH 61 HIGH 75 HIGH 78
.... 
LOW 55 LOW 55 LOW 60 LOW 55 
Atlanta 90 I 68 Boston 80 I 56 Chi<:ago 71 I 54 Denver 78 I 50 Houston 90 I 76 Los Angeles 76 I 60 Minneapolis 68 I 50 New York 86164 Philadelphia 86 I 64 Phoenix 102 I 80 Seattle 64 I 46 St. Louis 81 I 69 Tampa 92/74 Washington 90 I 66 
Friday, September 23, 2005 
The Observer+ CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Football fans hopeful for Washington gatne 

t:st: I H WERNET !The Observer 
Students are hoping for a win at this weekend's football game. Some will see the game firsthand by flying to Seattle for the game. 
By SARAII WHEATON 
News Writer 
While many studPnts will turw into Saturday's game at Washington from various tel­evision sets around campus, otlH~rs are making the 2,000 mile-long trek as a testament to tlwir support for the [()am. 
Mikn Marchand and Mike Santos are just two of' a num­ber ol' loyal Irish fans making tho journey to Seattle for this we «~ k e n d 's ga Ill n a ga i n s t Washington. Both seniors, tlwy plan to stay the w1wkend with thnir f'ornwr roommate, Notro l>amo alumnus Dave llPdPnbaugh, who now lives in Seattle. 
Silu:o planning thn trip last stllnmer, they -like many students -look forward to seeing Notre Dame's first game against former coach Tyrone Willingham. 
"I hope Ty has a good sea­son and that his team plays wPll and makes it a good game, but in the end, we'd h«)tter win," Marchand said. 
Most fans are eager to see Weis play Willingham for the first time, and like Marchand, wish the former head coach luck while still hoping for a solid Irish vietory. 
"As nice as Ty is, I can't wait to see the Irish crush Washington," Junior Jenn 
Sayers said. . 
For students who are trav­eling to Washington, the Notre Dame Club of Western Washington is holding a full we!)kcnd of football-related events, including a pep rally Friday night and a large tail­gate Saturday before the game. The Notre Dame cheer­leaders will perform at both events. · 
Though the majority of Notre Dame students are not able to travel with the team to Seattle. they are eager to watch the game from cam­pus. 
''I'm watching it on my satellite in my middle room," .Junior Jim Theiss said. 
Sayers plans on having a small party in her room. 
For students who wish to join a large number of other fans while cheering on the Irish. Legends will host a game watch complete with free food provided by the Class of 2006. 
Many students arc opti­mistic about the upcoming game given Notre Dame's sound 38-3 victory over Washington last year. Marchand predicts an Irish win by a "21-point spread." 
Contact Sarah Wheaton at 
swheaton@nd.edu 

SMC announces election results 
Johnson and Kistka win more than 60 percent ofthefreshman votes 
By MEGAN O'NEIL 
Sr. Mary's Editor 

After a week of intense cam­paigning, Francesca Johnson and Pauline Kistka were elected Saint Mary's first-year class pres­ident and vice president in a run­off election Wednesday. 
Voting ran until midnight and Piections commissioner Daniello Lerner called the pair Thursday morning to inform them of' their victory. 
Winning 60.82 pnrcent of' the votes. Johnson and Kistka finished well ahead of their 
opponents Mary "/ was really weekend and Conroy and Katie then again
surprised and I
Connolly, who gar­Tuesday night
was so excited. " 
nered 38.14 per­trying to win cent. their classmates Participation was Francesca Johnson votes. high with 194 out They passed
freshman class
404 first-year stu­out cookies and
president
dents casting votes stickers and pro­via Prism, a College moted their idea computer network. of staging a Lerner said. There were two dance marathon to raL<>e money abstentions. for charity. The two women also 
Johnson and Kistka won the proposed creating the position of' preliminary election Monday dormitory representative, which 
Professor backs culture theory 
Special to the Observer 
The recent discovery of changes in two genes thought to regulate brain growth ha.<> some scientists convinced that the human brain is still a work in 
progress, but a Notre Dame anthro­pologist says that these findings need to be interpreted in a cultural contex.t. and that not only the brain, but every aspect of the human being is still evolv­ing. 
"Changes in the forms of genes in the brain may be correlated with 
with 49.73 percent of the vote.. would function as a liaison 
"I was really surprised and I between thn various residence was so excited," Johnson said. "I halls on campus. had always wanted to do some­BdiJre Johnson and Kistka can 
thing like this ... so to find out people thought we would do a good job was excit­ing." 
Campaigning undnr thn slogan "Your ener­gizer bunnies -we will keep going and going for you," Johnson and Kistka spent hours knocking 
o n dorm 
"/ think {we will choose] people that really want to help ... " 
Francesca Johnson freshman class 
president 
embark on tlwir yPar in ollicP~ howev­1'1", tlwy will fare with till' immPdiatl' liL<;k of' iL'iSelll­IJJing a first­year class b o a r d . Com posPd 0 r I2 stud e n ts . tlw board will advise and 

rooms over the 
Fuentes, associate professor of anthropology. "This is suggesting that changing patterns of manipulating our environments may be afl'ecting the evolution­ary pressures we humans put on ourselves -and thus changing 
"Changes in the forms ofthe genes in the brain may be correlated with changes in human cultural behavior. " 
Agustin Fuentes ND professor 
the genetic structures in our brains." 
Scientists tracked changes in two brain genes unique to humans-one appearing some 6,000 years ago and now found in 30 percent of the population, 
changes in human cultural and the other evolving some behaviors," said Agustin 37,000 years ago and found in 
assist tlw prnsid«)nt and vie«~ president with class Pwnl<;. 
Johnson and Kistka will spt•rJ<l tht~ following weeks accepting and reviewing applications. Tlwy are looking for women with a passion for Saint Mary's, Johnson said. 
"I think I we will choose! people that really want to hnlp and that obviously have energy fin· doing activities." .Johnson said. 
Contact Meghan O'Neil at onei0907@saintmarys.edu 
more than 70 percont of' tlw population. Sincn the appear­anee of' the first modern humans dates back more than 200,000 years. it appears that tlwse changes in brain genes dPvnl­opod well after that period, and evolved at the same time tlw creative explosion of' modern humans bngan to sprnad across Europe and when civilizations flourished. 
"lluman cultural adaptation seems to bn changing the land­scape of evolutionary challenges, so it appears that we are. in essence, building our evolution­ary futurn," Fuentes said. 
A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 2002, Fuentes' areas of specialization include biological anthropology, prima­tology, and evolution of social organization and behavior. 


page 4 The Observer + CAMPUS NEWS Friday, September 23, 2005 
gion is about having faith." The question of religion and oneselffor a deeper exchange." 
Rauf has spent much of his politics spurred debate over Lack of understanding can be 
life trying to break down the whether the United States seen in the way the Western barriers between the Muslim should be considered a world views the role of women continued from page 1 and Western worlds. He Christian nation -a thought in Muslim cultures. 
explained the Muslim viewpoint Danforth found troubling. "The veil head covering has panelists -Cardinal Oscar to the panelists. "It's important for religion become a visible symbol of the Andres Rodriguez, the arch­"When people are dissatisfied people to be involved with poli­assumed repression of women bishop of Tegucigalpa, they use their deepest value to tics," he said. "Faithful people in Islamic society," said Notre Honduras; Imam Feisal Abdul express what is wrong. In the believe is it their responsibility Dame professor Asma Hauf, founder and chief execu­U.S. we say, 'this is unconstitu­to participate in government. Afsaruddin. "But many women tive officer of the American tional'," Rauf said. "Well, when But for people to say this is a lind it a sign of liberation. The Society for Muslim Muslims feel they have been Christian nation'' overwhelming con­Advancement; Naomi Chazan, a wronged, they say 'this is not The answer has ception we get resident of Jerusalem and for­Islamic.' They look in funda­to be no ... The from the media is 
Foru01 

"The overwhelming 
mer deputy speaker of the mental texts and say this is separation that a woman in a Israeli Parliament; and John unjust. between Church conception we get headscarf is a very Danforth, former ·united States "In spite of all the hostility and state, I from the media is oppressed person." senator from Missouri and for­done by bin Laden and so forth, believe, is essen­Brokaw did not
that a woman in a 
mer U.S. Ambassador to the there have been far more inno­tial." shy away from the United Nations. cent Muslim lives that have One hour into headscarfis a very controversial ques­Discussion focused on the been taken as the result of the forum, four oppressed tions. He asked entanglement of religion and sanctions, American invasion on Notre Dame par­Cardinal
person.
government in the Middle East, Iraq and the war in ticipants joined Hodriquez for his the worldwide emergence of Afghanistan. This is what fuels the discussion to thoughts on the fundamentalism animosity in the add their own Asma Afsaruddin soon-to-be-pub­and the global Muslim world for commentary. Notre Dame professor lished document need for a greater Americans." The discussion from the Vatican
"The loudest voices 
acceptance of Brokaw said focused on stating homosexu­other faiths. are those who the gap between Martin Marty's book, "When als will not be accepted into the Panelists debat­the U.S and the Faiths Collide." Panelists were priesthood.
advocate 

ed the issue of Islamic world is in agreement with Marty's belief "People that are afraid of fly­
divisiveness,

fundamentalism perhaps wider that hospitality, as opposed to ing will never be a pilot," -primarily its conflict and than ever since tolerance, is the key to uniting Rodriguez said. "If someone has definition and its differences." the terrorist people of different faiths. a fear of blood, they will never negative effect on attacks on Sept. Lawrence Sullivan, a profes­be a surgeon. The same is true world politics. 11, 2001. sor at Notre Dame with a deep for ordained ministry ... I am 
John Danforth

"If there is Danforth said understanding of native reli­aware that the priesthood is not something that former U.S. senator he believes the gions in South America, for people oriented in that causes me not to rift is due to the described how tolerance does [homosexual] direction." sleep at night, it's debate over the not necessarily promote mutual Despite their differences, each the fundamentalists," said true meaning of the word reli­understanding. panelist shared a belief in God. Chazan, who has devoted 30 gion. "Tolerance is based on 'let's Rauf said Muslim Americans do years to pursuing peace "The loudest voices are the all get along, let's not bring up not feel isolated when politi­between Israelis and the people who advocate divisive­anything serious,' " he said. cians say "God bless America." Palestinians. "They believe they ness, conflict and differences," "But people in their guts live on "We believe the God of Moses, have all the answers to all the Danforth said. "The people who serious issues. So tolerance the God of Jesus and the God of questions and that terrifies me believe religion has an entirely means not turning up those Muhammed are all the same and it should terrify everyone. different meaning have been issues that bands groups of peo­God." Do not profile religion, profile strangely silent. Which is why ple together. But if we promote those who is the name of reli­this forum at a Catholic univer­hospitality, we are welcoming gion assert truth because reli-sity is so important." the other in, and presenting Contact Mary Kate Malone 
mmalone3@nd.edu 



Protest 
continued from page 1 

world" protests would not hap­pen during University President Father John Jenkins' inaugura­tion, the University was not con­cerned. 
"It's perfectly within their [SNAP members'] rights to do so," Storin said. He noted that SNAP was not targeting Notre Dame or Jenkins. 
While SNAP members did not enter the Forum -"We don't disrupt," Blaine said -they thought it was necessary to get out their message. 
"I would hope that Catholics who are committed to peace and justice would demand that the University do something," Blaine said. 
Students who received the leaflets seemed largely confused, many crumpling and tossing the pieces of paper into a trash can while laughing to friends, "I thought this had to do with the forum!" or "He owes me a per­sonal apology." 
Others studied the leaflets carefully and offered their opin­ions. 
"I agree that the media has definitely been skewed in many wa.ys, and I don't doubt that all these scandals happened," grad­uate student Levente Borvak said. "But I support [the inclu­sion of Rodriguez on the panel] fully." 
Freshman Ashley Williams, who had not heard of the con­troversy before Thursday, said she had "mixed feelings" due to the Forum's topic. 
Contact Maddie Hanna at mhannal@nd.edu 


Coal 
continued from page 1 
if Michiana's other power plant were closed and noted the eco­nomic benefits a new plant would bring to the area. 
"Cancer Ally" is the term some scientists used to refer to the heavily polluted Indiana­Michigan border corridor, and citizens were worried that the new coal power plant would make things even worse. But the new plant would have used cutting-edge technology to gasify coal instead of burning it -a supposedly much more efficient and clean process. 
Some residents were con­vinced that the method pro­posed by the plant is a clean and efficient way to meet Indiana's energy needs. Some concerned citizens, however, founded the Michiana Quality of Life organization and were dedicated to halting construc­tion of the plant. 
Organization members claim in their mission statement that the plant would have "a long­term, severely negative impact on the health, future job oppor­tunities, small business viabili­ty, property values and overall quality of life in Michiana." The group also worried the plant would release 3 million tons of carbon dioxide gas per year ­the equivalent of 10,000 cars running continuously each day. 
Others believe the plant would be environmentally safe. Joan Brennecke, Notre Dame professor of chemical and bio­molecular engineering and director of Notre Dame's Energy Center, will not endorse any particular company or project, but said she supports the technology. 
"I think [the technology] is vital to meeting our country's energy needs in an environ­mentally responsible fashion," Brennecke said. "The proposed IGCC would produce less nitro­gen dioxide and sulfur dioxide than our current eight megawatt Notre Dame power plant." 

Professor Allert Brown-Gort, an associate director at Notre Dame's Institute for Latino Studies and a resident of New Carlisle, has been actively cam­paigning against the proposed plant. Brown-Gort called the technology "incredible." 
"If it were replacing the existing plant I would probably be all for it," Brown-Gort said. 
However, because the pro­posed plant would be used to supplement -not replace ­Michiana's current energy plant, Brown-Gort is against the new plan. 
"The bottom line is, I just don't understand what we're getting in exchange for putting our water and the health of our citizens at risk," he said. 
Tondu Corp., on the other hand, said even with significant improvements in energy effi­ciency and conservation, more power plants will be required in Indiana. Based on Department of Energy fore­casts, Tondu projects Indiana will need 3,000 new megawatts by 2010. 
Besides environmental con­cerns, Brown-Gort also worried about the corporate citizenship of Tondu Corp, saying Tondu has a history of suing the com­munities with which it con­ducts business. In Michiana's case, Tondu had been pushing for a rush approval so that they can take advantage of subsi­dies from the federal govern­ment made available to energy companies in the latest energy bill, he said. · 
Brown-Gor·t says he is not convinced of the need for such urgency and said the town "can't trust them." 
Notre Dame professor Christopher Welna agreed and said Tondu's history shows they are not good eorporate citizens. 
'Tfondu] looks for economi­cally disadvantaged areas where they can go in, promise a lot, take advantage of federal subsidy programs and depreci­ation costs, t.hen pull out and leave communities with white elephants," he said. 
Coal is the country's most plentiful fuel resource, but burning it is also one of the most impure processes avail­able. Coal gasification, an alternative to coal burning, supposedly reduces the harm­ful environmental effects of burning. 
Professor Frank Incropera, dean of engineering at Notre Dame, said there is no disput­ing the fact that ICGGs provide the cleanest approach to uti­lization of coal for power gen­eration. 
"They are far superior to conventional coal-fired power plants in terms of their overall efficiency, as well as their sig­nificant reduction of atmos­pheric pollutants," he said. 
Despite this endorsement, opponents of the Tondu plant were adamant in their stance. 
"I think it would be a giant step backwards for this for­merly industrial town to allow Tondu to build a dirty plant that doesn't bring jobs or tax benefits," Welna said. "As a parent, I do not want my chil­dren breathing even more pol­lutants." 
Contact Sarah Wheaton at swheaton@nd.edu 









ORLD & NATION 
Friday, September 23, 200'5 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVJCES page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Germany yet to choose chancellor 
BI·:HI.IN, Germany -Conservative leader i\ngnla Merkel and Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder faih~d Thursday to resolve their hatth~ over who should lead Germany's new govPrnnwnt hut agreed to meet again to explore forming a right-left eoalition to stnnr efTorts to revive l•:urope's largest economy. 
Both MerkPI and Schroeder have laid daim to building Germany's rwxt governnwnt after nl'itlwr party won a dear majority in parlia­mPntary elections Sunday, leaving tho coun­try, t.lw world's third-largest eeonorny, in politkal ITisis. 
Tho deadlock nwans (;ermany could spnnd wnPks wit.hout lnadership at a iimo whon it dPspnrately nemls dear direction to push through badly n1wd1~d IH'onomie reforms. (;nrmany also wants to maintain its strong leadership role within the l~uropean Union, particularly in tlw wake of tho EU's failod constitution nfl'ort and on tlw eve of nwmbnr­ship talks with Turkey. 
Low voter turnout in Kabul election 
KABUL. Afghanistan -Only about one­third of Kabul's n~giston~d voters east bal­lots in legislativ1~ nlnetions, an ofTidal said Thursday-a turnout that suggests disil­lusionnwnt with tlw U.S.-haeked govern­nwnt and tlw pacn of rebuilding after a quarter-century of war. 
Beports from rwarly all pt>lling centnrs anoss Afghanistan indicate some (d> mil­lion votl'rs cast ballots, whieh would put national turnout al about 53 percent, said l'l'tl'r l·:rlwn, chief elndoral officer of the 
li.N. -Afghan body that organized t.he polls. But lw Pstimatnd turnout in Kabul and the surrounding provinco was just :H, perrent.. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Roberts wins committee approval 
W;\Sf IINGTON -.John Hoberts' nomination as l'hil'f justko dnared a Senato eommittee on a bipartisan vote of I :{-5 Thursday, with next wePk's mnlirmation so cnrtain that Hepublicans and I >Pmoerats turned incTnasing attention to PrPsidnnt Bush's dwicn to fill a second Suprmnn Court vaeancy. 
Bnfore tlw eommittnn votn on Hobnrts. Son. IIPrh Kohl, 1>-Wis., said. "I will votn my hopes and not my fnars. and I will vote to c~onfirm him." Kohl was onn of tlm~n l>mnoerats on the .ludiriary CommiUc~c~ who supported Hobnrts' nomination along with all 10 Hnpublkans on the parwl. 
J.'ivn l>nmoiTats votnd against HobnrL<>. ques­tioning his commitmnnt to civil rights and nxprnssing c:oncnrn that he might overturn tho I<)7] court ruling that nstablished the right to abortion. 

Indictment in California terror case 
Si\CBAMI~NTO-Orm of five men from a l.mli mosque arrnstml oarlinr this year was indietnd Thursday on fi~dnral chargns alleging he intnml­l'd "to wage jihad in t.hn Unitnd States." 
llarnid llayat, 22, was already chargnd with lying to the FBI about att1mding a terrorist train­ing camp in Pakistan. Thn now indictment adds tlw morn snrious ehargP of providing material support to tPrrorisL'i. 
llayat "intcmdnd, upon rncnipt of orders from otlwr individuals, to wagn jihad (holy war) in the Unitml Statns,'' tlw indictment alleges. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Fatal Gary fire ruled an accident 
(;;\BY-I\ disregardnd match or eigarette in a bmlroom sparked a firn that killed six pnopln, induding four childrnn, invostigators say. 
Indiana fin~ marshal's office investigator Jdf Hoseboom said the pre-dawn f'ire WcHirwsday appeamd to have ignited above floor lewd. probably in bndding. 
'1\vo adults and three drildren ages 1 to 12 wnrn pronounend dead shortly after the blaw. ;\notlwr victim, an 11-year-old boy, diml Wndnosday af'tnrnoon at a Chieago hos­pital. ;\ 7 -ynar-old boy and an adult f'nmaln rPiatiw n~mained hospitalized Thursday. 

Rita closes in on Texas Coast 
Hundreds ofthousands ofresidents caught in slow exodus; oil refineries threatened 
Associated Press 
IIOUSTON, Texas llurrieann Hila closed in on tlw Texas Gulf Coast and the heart of the U.S. oil-refining industry with howling 145 mph winds Thursday, but a sharpor­than-nxpnctod turn to the right set it on a course that could spare llouston and nearby Galveston a direct hit. 
The storm's march toward land sent hundreds of thousands of people lleeing the nation's fourth­largest city in a frustrat­ingly slow, bumper-to­bumper exodus. 
"This is the worst plan­ning l'vo ever seen," said Judie 1\.ndmson, who cov­ered just 45 miles in 12 hours after setting out from hor home in the· Houston suburb of LaPorte. "They say we've learned a lot from llurrieane Katrina. Well. you couldn't prove it by mn." 
In all, nearly 2 million people along the Texas and Louisiana coasts wore urged to get out of tho way of Hita, a 400-mile-wide storm that weakened Thursday from a top-of­tho-seale Category 5 hurri­cane to a Category 4 as it swirled across the Gulf of Mexico. 

The storm's course already-battered New up to 15 inches along the waiting in traf'f'ic and change could send it away Orleans, raising fears that Texas and western turned around and went from Houston and the city's Katrina-damaged Louisiana coast. home. Galvnston and instead levees would fail and flood The evacuation was a Service stations n~ported draw the hurricane toward the city all over again. trallie nightmare, with red running out of gasoline, Port Arthur, Texas, or Lakn At 5 p.m. EDT, Hita was brakelights streaming out and policn of'f'ienrs along Charles, I.a., at least 60 cnntered about 405 miles of llouston and its low­the highways carried gas miles up the coast, by latn southeast of Galveston and lying suburbs as far as the to motorists whose tanks Friday or early Saturday. was moving at near 9 mph. eye eould see. Highways were on nmpty. Toxas 
But it was still an Its winds were near 140 leading inland out of authoritios also asked tho oxtremely dangerous mph, down from 175 mph Houston. a metropolitan Pentagon for help in gPl­storm -and one aimed at earlier in the day. area of 4 million people ting gasolino to drivers a section of coastline with Forecasters predicted it about an hour's drive from stuek in traflk. the nation's biggest con­would come ashore some­the shore, were dogged Hather than sit in trallic, centration of oil relineries. where along a 350-mile for up to 100 miles north some people walknd thnir Environmentalists warned stretch of the Texas and of the eity. dogs, got out to stretch or of the possibility of a toxic Louisiana coast that Drivers ran out of gas in switch drivers, or loung1~d spill from the 87 dwmieal includes Port Arthur near 14-hour traffic jams or in the beds of pickup plants and petroleum the midpoint. looked in vain for a place trucks. Fathers and sons installations that represent Forecasters warned of to stay as hotels filled up played catch on fn~nway morn than one-fourth of the possibility of a storm all the way to the mndians. Some walked 
U.S. relining capacity. surge of 15 to 20 feet, bat­Oklahoma and Arkansas from ear to ear, chatting Hita also brought rain to tering waves, and rain of line. Others got tired of with others. 

IRAQ 

Shiite cleric backs draft constitution 
Associated Press 

BAGIID!\.D -The eountry's most powerful Shiite cleric endorsed the draft eo nstit u tio n Thursday, rejecting opposition voiend by two popular leaders of Iraq's majority seet and underlining a rif't also on display in anti-British violence in the southern city of Basra. 
Two offieials in the Shiite Muslim hierarchy in Najaf' said Grand Ayatollah 1\.li al-Sistani eallnd sen­ior aides together and told them to promote a "yes" vote among the faithful during the Oct. 15 national referendum on ·the constitution. 
The officials refused to be idcnti­f'ied because they are not author­ized to speak for al-Sistani, who only issues statements through his office and makes no public appearances. 
Iraq's minority Sunni 1\.rabs, who lost power and privilege with the fall or Saddam Hussein in the U.S.­led invasion, are deeply opposed to the constitution. They form the bulk of the country's violent insur­gency and have stepped up attacks on Shiites in advance of the vote. 
Some saw a Shiite split in play during the violence this week in the predominantly Shiite eity or 
Basra, where British troops dashed with mobs and smashed into a jail while rnscuing two sol­dinrs. 
Anthony Cordnsman of tho Washington-based Cnnter for Strategic and International Affairs, said the nscalation of ten­sion in Basra undnrseored the simmnring rift among Shiito fac­tions ahead of tho rof'nn~ndum and p a r I i a m e n t a r y o I e r: t i o n s i n December. 
"In large part, this is a rnadion to a struggle between hard-liners and more moderato rnligious eln­ments," he said. 
page 6 The Observer + NEWS Friday, September 23, 2005 
most traditional -the inaugu­ration ceremony.
Brunch 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame" and the impor­tance of positive attitude, "of warmth, of weleome, of dedi­cation, a sense of community amongst yourselves." 
"When we work that way, all our jobs become easier, more 

"The main event I remember was the actual inauguration at the Joyce Center. It was totally full. It was just a very moving, inspirational [ceremony], and I'm sure this one will be just as eventful," she said. 
Tubinis emphasized the "inclusive" nature of Jenkins' inauguration. "They have 

Vatican 
continued from page 1 
knowledgeable in the Catholic religion. 
Woodruff will field questions to the guest speakers, who will be seated in a more casual set-up on stage than normally found in a comentional panel discussion. Dolph~n said the speakers are slated to discuss "tough topics that question Vatican II experi­ments." 
"One of the key themes of this celebration has been the exami­nation of the changing role of women in the Church and world since 1965," Dolphin said in a statement. "Saint Mary's College just completed its 160th year as a leader in higher education for women, so there is a double rea­son to focus on this theme. It seems to me that if such explo­ration can't happen at a place like Saint Mary's College, with its strong mission and vision, I would say then that it probably is not possible anywhere," Dolphin said. 
The event was scheduled to air live on C-SPAN, however produc­ers contacted the College and said they were no longer able to broadcast the event. Grassroots Media will film the conference for archival purposes. 
All events of the conference are open and free to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross faculty, staff and students. 
Only the Judy Woodruff conver­sation session will be free to the public. Anyone not a member of the College community who wishes to attend conference events must register with the SMC Center for Spirituality. Organizers estimate 100 regis­tered participants will come from throughout the Midwest to attend this weekend's confer­ence. 
"Attending events such as this allow students and all partici­pants involved to become a leader in both the world and Church at a time when they both need [leaders I very badly," Dolphin said. 
Contact Kelly Meehan at kmeehaO 1 @saintmarys.edu 

More colleges offer gallle theory 
Associated Press 
TROY, N.Y.-Down the hall, college students study steel design and software engineer­ing. In Shawn Lawson's class­room, they learn how to digi­tally animate a ball bouncing through a flaming hoop. 
"We need to give him a real squish when he lands,"Lawson advises his Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute students. 
Morn and more, courses like Lawson's are being offered in eolleges around the country in response to the digital media industry's appetite for skilled workers and the tastes of a new generation of students raised on Game Boy and Xbox. 
Animation I, Cognition & Gaming and Computer Music are being offered as part of the year-old minor in game studies at RPI, one of dozens of schools that have added courses or degree programs related to video gaming in recent years. 
RPI, which plans to offer a major in the field next year, graduated 27 gaming minors in its first year and expects a jump this year. 
"The concept of designing good video games, or design­ing good human-computer interactions-that's what I'm interested in," said Chelsea Hash, a senior with a video game minor and a major in electronic arts. 
From Brooklyn's Pratt Institute to the University of Colorado, at least 50 schools around the country now offer courses in video game study, development or design, according to industry groups. 
Some of the schools offer full-blown academic pro­grams. The University of Washington offers a certificate in game design; the Art Institute of Phoenix gives a bachelor of arts in game art and design; and the University of Pennsylvania has a master's in computer graphics and game technology. 
Jason Della Hoeea, executive director of the International Game Developers Association, said the high number of schools adding programs in the past few years shows how the game industry is matur­ing. 
Della Hocca said that in the early "Space Invader" days of game development, one devel­pper could mentor a handful of workers. Now, games can cost $10 million to develop and require 200 workers, making the industry hungrier for specialized skills. 
RPI humanities dean John Harrington said the idea of teaching about video games in college "brings out the Puritan in some people," but he said the technology-oriented school can't afford to ignore the booming field of digital media. 
Administrators at RPI say they developed a serious aea­demic program that marries technology and creativity. 
pleasant," he planned so many
"/ thought he 
said. events for staff, Both Jenkins {Jenkins] seemed students and fac­and new Provost ulty," she said.
very warm, 
Thomas Burish "This staff break­
friendly and
have professed fast didn't happen lofty goals for the down-to-earth." before." future of the Both Tubinis 
University, and Morris Inn
Shannen Mears 
preaching themes reservation sales
Morris Inn employee 
like "advance­employee ment" and "great-Shannen Mears ness." But Jenkins said they felt com­assured staff of their integral fortable with Jenkins as presi­part in the process. dent. 
"Whatever we do, we will "I thought he seemed very always try to remember, is warm, friendly, down-to­made possible because of what earth," Mears said. you do," he said. "We can only "We like his smile," Tubinis do what we do and bring Notre said. Dame ahead because of that, Mears said "30-something" what you bring to this job. I members of Jenkins' family just want to thank you in who traveled to Notre Dame advance." from Omaha and checked in at 
Staff members reacted very the Morris Inn Wednesday. She positively to the mentioned how 
speech and they all smiled at expressed excite­"They have the check-in ment for the planned so many desk. inauguration of All of Jenkins'
events for staffand
Jenkins, who family members,
faculty. The staff
spent most of the Tubinis said, "are breakfast circu­breakfast didn't just as friendly as lating from table happen before.,, he is." to table, intro­Even with so ducing himself to many family 
guests. Sherri Tubinis members and 
"It's an historic Morris Inn manager activities to event," Mendoza attend to, College of Jenkins said he Business advisor Jennifer was not stressed, but excited Dujka said. "There haven't about his jam-packed two been that many [Notre Dame] days. presidents -hopefully we'll "I think the biggest chal­have him for quite a while." lenge will be to keep my ener­
Morris Inn rooms manager gy up," he said. Sherri Tubinis compared the weekend to University 
Contact Maddie Hanna at 
President Emeritus Father 

mhannal@nd.edu
Edward Malloy's inauguration, 
which she recalled fondly. 
"I still remember all the details of that," Tubinis said. "I think the staff, faculty and students should take advan­tage of the opportunities." 
For Tubinis, the most stand­out of Malloy's events was the 



RESTAURANT 

Now Hiring 
P~ "' d c .....--.-.-. 
~renence· ,~vel' 
Apply in Person 
211 N. Main St. Downtown South Bend 
232--4445 
www. SiamThaiSouthBend .com 
"New York's newest underground party pack Clap Your Hands Say Yeah is a band teetering on the fence of obscurity and stardom ..." -tinymixtapes.com 
"Brooklyn's Clap Your Hands Say Yeah are here to rest their collec­tive arms around your shoulders and lead you back across the indie pop threshold into a rare corner of sweet guitar rock that hums with fresh originality." -msnbc.com 
LECENDS•lO PM• SATVRDAY SEPTEMBER 24TH 
wvfi.nd.edu 


WVFI PRESENTS 
"CYHSY is at the best point in the lifecycle of a band: un-styled, simply produced and deserving of the hype for what is --quite possibly --a nearly perfect album."-billboard.com 
THE OBSERVER 







USINESS
Friday, September 23, 2005 
page 7 

Dow 
10,422.05 +44.02
}ones .... 
Up: Same: Down: Composite Volum I ,453 I 48 IJU7 2,436,261,840 
·<JI'· 
AMEX I ,720.50 -R.94 NASDAQ 2,110.78 +4.14 NYSE 7,519.86 +4.84 S&PSOO 1,214.62 +4.42 NIKK£1(Tol<yo) 13, 159.36 -37.21 FTSE IOO(London) 5,385.70 +16.00 
COMPANY %CHANGE I$GAIN I PRICE 
NASDAQ 100 (QQQQ) +0.36 +0.14 38. MICROSOFT CP (MSFT) -0.59 -0.15 25. ORACLE CORP (ORCL) + 1.73 +0.23 13. CISCO SYS INC (CSCO) + 1.46 +0.26 18. INTEL CP (INTC) +0.24 +0.06 24. 

30-YEAR BOND -0.20 -0.09 44.E I 0-YEAR NOTE -0.29 -0.12 41.7 5-YEAR NOTE -0.52 -0.21 39.E 3-MONTH BILL +1.14 +0.38 33.E 
Commodities 
LIGHT CRUDE ($/bbl.) -0.30 66.5 GOLD ($!Troy oz.) -2.30 470.3 PORK BELLIES (cencs/lb.) +2.00 85.3 
Excha Rates 
YEN I I I.71 ~ EURO 0.82; POUND 0.55£ CANADIAN$ 1.171 
IN BRIEF 

Sony seeks turnaround with job cuts 
TOKYO -Sony Corp.'s Howard Stringer, the lirst foreigner to lwad the .lapancsfJ electron­ics and nntnrtainnwnt eompany, promised a deeisivn turnaround Thursday eentered on cutting jobs, elosing plants and shedding unprofitable businesses. 
But many analysts said his plan lacked cre­ativity and vision for a world in which con­sunwr electronics companies are b(1ing forced to adapt nimbly to shifting information and nntnrtainmnnt consumption patterns brought on by thn Interrwt and wireless revolutions. 
Tlwsn samn analysts did not, however, deny the rwnd for cost cuts, which inducted slashing I0,000 jobs, or about 6 pnrcent of' Sony's glob­al work force, by llw end of' March 2008. 
Tlw shakeup also calls for closing 11 ol' Sony's 65 manufacturing plants and shrinking or eliminating 15 unprofitable eleetronics operations by the same deadline. Sony refused to say what those businesses were. 
Stringer, a British-American dual eitizon, acknowledged that times have changed. Unlike the old days wlwn Sony ruled electron­ics with its rnanul'aduring linesse, it now faces tough competition and cheaper prices that are turning Sony products into mere "commodi­tins," hn told rnportnrs at a Tokyo hotel. 
New York crude drops below $67 
NI·:W YOHK-Crude-oil futures fell Thursday, as Hurricane Hita wnakened and followed a track running nast of thn llouston-arna reliner­ins. 
At tlw New York Mercantile Exchange, bmch­mark light, swePt 1:rude futures for NovembPr dnlivPry fell 30 cents to $66.50 a barrel after trading as low as $6(, and as high as $68.14 a harmI. 
Whiln still an "nxtrnnwly dang(miUs storm," Hila was downgradml to a Catngory 4 hurricane Thursday allnrnoon. 
"To tlw nxtnnt that it's not going to be a direct hit on llouston and Calvnston, it won't afl'nct the lloust.on Ship Channnl or t.lw locus of' the relining in tlw rngion," said Marshall Steeves, an analyst at Hnli:o, a broknragn in Nnw York. 
llrH'.(Wtainty ovnr Hita's track and tho evar.ua­tion of llouston knpt many tractors out of tho nrarkPt, lmtding to light volumos and sharp prieo swings. 
Stocks rise as Rita weakens 
Hurricane downgraded to categoy 4; Wall Street rebounds from four day loss 
Associated Press 

NEW YOHK-Wall Stroot 
lif'tod itsoll' out of a fourth 
day of' lossns Thursday, dos­
ing highor as llurrieane Bita 
wPaknncd slightly and 
vnPrnd away from many oil 
rnlinnriPs. 

lnvPst.ors bid stocks up as 
oil pricos declined. Stocks 
that had bnen doing poorly 
fin· weeks, such as rPtailnrs 
and consumnr goods com­
panins, reboundnd. 

"Maybn it's one of thoso 
things whorn the balloon 
was pushod under watnr so 
far that it's bounced to the 
surf'ac11," said Jon Brorson, 
lwad or growth equities at 
Neubnrger Berman in 
Chkago. 

lnvostors still feared that 
Hita could compound tho 
damage done by llurrieano 
Katrina, loading to higher oil 
prieos and a dramatie drop 
in consumer spending. "It's 
all about oil," said l'au~ 
McManus, senior vice presi­
dent and director or 
rosearch. Independence 
lnvnst.ment LLC. Traders 
sent thnir clients weather 
updates and lists of oil rigs 
at risk Wndnesday morning. 
But as the National 
Hurricane Center down­graded the storm to Category 4 from Category 5, some investors relaxed a lit­tle and starting searching 'for bargains after three 
down days. 

"Everyone is just sitting 
back and watching their McDonald's Corp. and Wal­other major currencies in eonsumer sentiment weak­
weather maps," McManus Mart Stores Inc. led the European trading. Gold nned. The data fi1r the index 
said. index higher. priees were lower. was eolleetnd before 
Crude oil futures fell as Broader stoek indieators The Labor Department Katrina's devastation of the fears about the storm lost also closed up. The reportnd that the number of Gulf Coast, and it is likely some intnnsity. A barrel of Standard & Poor's 500 index Americans thrown out of that the Snptmnber reading light crude settled at $66.50, rose 4.42, or 0.37 percent, work by Katrina shot up by for tho index will b11 oven down :30 cenl'i, on the New to 1,214.62, and the Nasdaq 103,000 last week. brin1-,ring weaker. York Mercantile Exchange. composite index rose 4.14, the total seeking jobless Nonetholess, some 
According to pn~Jiminary or 0.2 percent, to 2,11 0.78. benefits because or the investors were optimistic caleulations, the Dow Jones Bonds dipped, with the storm to 214,000. that tlw Fed, dnspite its industrial average rose yield on the 10-year Meanwhile, the Conlcreneo decision on Tuesday to con­
44.02. or 0.42 percent, to Treasury note rising to 4.18 Board said its Index ol' tinue raising ratns, will 10,422.05 alter losing near­percent, up from 4.17 per­Leading Eeonomie Indicators decide to ehange its stratngy ly 264 points since Monday. cent late Tuesday. The U.S. fell for the second straight if' evidence continues to Gains by Dow components dollar was mixed against month during August as point to a slower neonomy. 



Rewrite of U.S. Bankruptcy Code 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON -The most sweeping rewrite of' the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in a quarter cen­tury, making it harder for debtors to erase credit card and other obliga­tions in court proceedings, goes into effect Oct. 17. The legislation was passed by Congress and signed into Jaw by President Bush in April after an eight-year campaign by banks, retailers and credit card eompanies. 
A major provision of tho law sets up an income test for determining whether people can have their debts canceled in exchange for for­feiting certain assets or if they must repay them under a court-ordered plan. The change will afTnct an esti­mated 30,000 to 210,000 people a year, and there already has been a rush to the eourthouse by those wishing to file for bankruptcy under 
the current law, which generally allows federal bankruptcy judges leeway to determine the fate of debtors' assets and how much they must repay. 
Financial services companies and other proponents or the change have maintained that the bankrupt­cy process has been abused by gam­blers, compulsive shoppers and multimillionaires who buy mansions in states with liberal homestead exemptions to shelter assets from creditors. They say the abuse has resulted in higher interest rates for everyone else. 
Opponents have said the new law will fall especially hard on low­income working peopln, single mothers, minorities and tho elderly and will r11move a safety net for those who have lost their jobs or !'ace mounting medical bills. 
Among the changes made by tlw 
new law: 

It sets up a new test for measur­ing a debtor's ability to repay. People with insufficient assets or income can still f'ile a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, which if approved by a judge erases debts entirely after certain assets are forfeited. But those with income above their state's median ineome who can pay at least $6,000 over five years ­$100 a month -will be f'orend into Chapter 13, undnr which a judgo orders a repayment plan. 
In ealeulating income, pooplo fil­ing for bankruptcy may dmlud vari­ous expensos as ddirwd by tho Internal Hovomw Snrvicn, induding food and dothing, and sonrn hnalth and disability insuranen nxpnnses. 
1'11opll1 seeking bankruptcy pro­tection are rnquirml to takn cn~dit counseling eoursns within ISO days, or about six months, of filing. 
page 8 The Observer + NEWS Friday, September 23, 2005 
Mobile music proves lucrative for industries 
Wireless carriers and record labels bank on big advancements in cell phone technology 
feed them are becoming more easy it was to use," she said. unveiled its ROKR, a mobile
Associated Press sophisticated. "The sound quality on my cell phone by Motorola Inc. that LOS ANGELES -When Consumers in Japan, South phone when it plays the song holds up to -100 songs and someone dials Leah Balecha's Korea and Great Britain are is not like listening to my comes with Apple's iTunes mobile phone, it doesn't ring. already transferring songs stereo." software. It's being offered It jams with the sounds of 50 directly from their computers Sprint Nextel Corp. will likely through Cingular Wireless, Cent, OutKast, Gwen Stefani to their phones, a practice be the first carrier to offer which is planning a separate and Kelly Clarkson. known as sideloading, or downloads of download service Like a growing number of downloading full-length tracks full songs over next year.
'The sound quality on
mobile phone users, the 30-over their mobile networks. its wireless Napster has year-old videographer and stu­Ringtones may be big in the network. It my cell phone when it partnered with dent has taken to customizing United States now, but full­to maker
plans plays the song is not handset 
her handset, sometimes paying track downloads and sideload­launch the Ericsson to
like listening to my
more than $3 for ing are the future, service in the launch a mobile just a snippet of said Thomas United States stereo." music service a single song to Hesse, president of this year. under the
"! love the reaction 
turn it into an global digital busi­Separately, Napster brand.
I get when people Leah Balecha
audible fashion ness at Sony-BMG Sprint recent­Slated to launch
mobile music user
accessory. hear my phone Entertainment. ly struck a in Europe within "I love the ringing. Still, there's deal with a year and in the reaction I get some doubt about RealNetworks Inc. to offer United States eventually, the when people whether U.S. music videos, news and music service would allow users to 
Leah Balecha
hear my phone music fans -who streamed over its network. purchase individual tracks and ringing," mobile music user have grown accus­Verizon Wireless, which is download them wirelessly. Balecha said. tomed to using affiliated with a British carrier The growth of the U.S. "All of my girl-their home com­that already offers full-song mobile music market has been friends have a different ring." puters to buy, listen and downloads in Britain, is also encouraging. 
With U.S. mobile phone users organize their digital music -planning a similar U.S. service. Ringtone sales are now esti­like Balecha already spending will fully embrace the phone Online music retailers mated at about $400 million hundreds of millions a year on as their music device of choice, including Napster Inc. and and projected to double by the ringtones, wireless carriers said Charles Golvin, principle Apple Computer Inc. are also end of the decade, said David and the music industry are analyst for Forrester Research vying to capture download Card, an analyst with Jupiter banking on taking music lovers in Los Angeles. sales by promoting handsets Research in New York. to the next step: using the Balecha has purchased about that users can hook up to their Sales of mastertones -clips phone as a portable music 15 ringtones in the past three personal computer. The idea is from an actual recording label player. months but isn't sold yet on to get user.s accustomed to release -have in some cases 
They're taking advantage of full-length songs. sideloading before plunging eclipsed sales of full versions the fact that mobile handsets "It would depend a lot on into pay-per-song downloads. of the same song in other for­and the data networks that how much it costs and how Earlier this month, Apple mats like CD. 

Kate Moss cocaine saga reveals fashion's flavvs 
culture lecturer Cary Cooper of give [fans] this example. Lancaster University. "The Everyone identifies with a star." industry saw the warning signs. Icelandic fashion designer Others saw the warning signs. Helga Vjornsson thought difl'er-Something should have been ently. · done sooner." "It's really unfair," said 
Moss was dropped by Vjornsson, who lives o(f the leg­Burberry, Chane! and Swedish endary Parisian shopping street clothing giant H&M. The British Rue du Faubourg St Honore. cosmetics company Himmel "She may be a product but she's London said Thursday it was a human being, too. The media "reviewing" her $2.3 million are responsible for her loss of contract. success or work." 
In her statement, Moss said, "I It was the media that fueled also accept that there are vari­Moss' rise with constant shots of ous personal issues that I need the wide-eyed, 5-foot-6 beauty to address and have started tak­-and the paparazzi were just ing the difncult, yet necessary, as quick to help her fall. steps to resolve them." 
Originally from the unglam­orous south London suburb of Croydon, Moss was discovered in 1988 by Storm agency founder Sarah Doukas at New York's John F. KennPdy airport. Two yPars later, topless pictures of the 14-year-old were splashed across billboards amid condem­nation of Moss' waifish appear­ance, blank stare and emaciated figure. 
The talk intensified as Moss entered adulthood. She boosted her stock by dating actors such as Johnny Depp and most recently Pete Doherty, the 26­year-old former Libertines front­
AP photo 
man who has been in and out of 
Supermodel Kate Moss went from icon to pariah when she admit­
drug rehab. 
ted to cocaine use and claimed "full responsibility" for her actions. 
In 1998, she made headlines when she checked into a London Associated Press canceling or not renewing con­rehab clinic for what was tracts worth millions of dollars. termed "exhaustion." Two years LONDON -Barely a teenager Moss issued an apology later, she was hospitalized again, and posing topless in a Calvin Thursday, taking "full responsi­reportedly for a kidney infection. 
I 
Scripture course unveiled 
Associated Press An interfaith group released a new textbook Thursday aimed at teaching public high school students about the Bible while avoid­ing legal and religious dis­putes. The nonprofit Bible Literacy Project of Fairfax, Va., spent five years and $2 million developing "The Bible and Its Influence." The text­book, introduced at a Washington news conference, won initial endorsements from experts in literature, religion and church-state law. American Jewish Congress attorney Marc Stern, an adviser on the effort, said despite concern over growing tensions among U.S. religious groups, "this book is proof that the despair is prema­ture, that it is possible to acknowledge and respect deep religious differences and yet still find common ground." Another adviser, evangeli­cal literature scholar Leland Ryken of Wheaton College, called the textbook "a tri­umph of scholarship and a major publishing event." The colorful $50 book and forthcoming teacher's guide, covering both Old and New Testaments, are planned for semester-long or full-year courses starting next year. The editors are Cullen Schippe, a retired vice presi­dent at textbook publisher Macmillan/McGraw-I-Iill, and Chuck Stetson, a venture cap­italist who chairs Bible Literacy. The 41 contributors include prominent evangeli­cal, mainline Protestant, Homan Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Jewish and secular experts. Religious lobbies and feder­al courts have long struggled over Bible course content. To avoid problems, Bible Literacy's editors accommo­dated Jewish sensitivities about the New Testament. 


Klein underwear ad, Kate Moss bility for my actions." Her dra­In 2003, the chain-smoker was 
1 Purchase any _combination 1
sashayed her way onto maga­matic fall has forced a re-think diagnosed with a "sleeping dis: zine covers 15 years ago amid on fashion's role models, and order." Allegations of her 
1 plate and get the secon
criticism of her uber-thin "hero­has raised questions about how cocaine use never let up. 
1

in chic" image. an industry notorious for its French fashion consultant 
plate of equal or les,{_·.
Now recent pictures of Moss drug-fueled party life can culti­Anne de Champigneuil said Moss 
1 1
allegedly snorting cocaine in a vate Moss' bad-girl image, then should have been more careful. London studio have turned the turn on her once that image "People are lucky to have such 
value ...1
1

31-year-old fashion icon into a matches reality. great contracts,. and they need to pariah, with fashion companies "It's hypocritical," said pop respect them ... It's a shame to 

Friday, September 23, 2005 The Observer+ NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

Anti-w-ar group plans a giant detnonstration 
Protestors want Bush to bring troops home 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON-Anti-war 
groups are using a $1 million 
ad campaign and a demonstra­
tion they say will attract 
I 00,000 people to try to re­
nrwrgize tlwir movemnnt and 
pressure thn Bush administra­
tion to bring troops home from 
Iraq. 
Organizers of Saturday's p r o t I\ s t . w h i d1 w i II take marchers past thn White House, say it will be the largest since the war began mor1~ than two years ago. 
Cindy Sheehan, the woman who drnw thousands of pro­tnstnrs to her 26-day vigil out­sidn l'residnnt Bush's Texas ranch last month, is among those planning to participate. 
"We want to show Congress, tl11i president and the adminis­tration that this ptHtcn move­mont is thriving," said Slwehan, whose 24-ynar-old son. Army Spc. Casey Slwehan, was killed last year in Iraq. "We mnan busirwss and we're not going to go away until our troops como home." 
On Thursday, Bush said withdrawing troops right now would make the world more dangerous. 
"Tho only way the tnrrorists ran win is if' we lose our nmve and abandon tlw mission," he said. "For the safety and secu­rity of tho Anwriean pnopln, that's not going to happen on my watch." 
Bush did not plan to be in Washington on Saturday, but hn will havn support on the strents. Thn groups Ff'lwHepuhlir.com and Protest Warrior plan their own demonstration on Saturday. with hundrmls nxpnetnd to join in. 
"Wn madn a vow after Sept. I I that wn would not allow the anti-Anwriean loft to do to us this limn what they did during Viutnam, which was wear down the morale of the Amnrican," FrnnHnpublic spokesman Kristinn Taylor 
CHURCH OF THE HOLY TRINITY EPISCOPAL 
WELCOME STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF Sunday Schedule 
8:00a.m. Holy Eucharist (Rite II) 
10:00 a.m. Holy ~;u~harist ~ith hymn• (Rite II) 
said. 
Taylor said a larger rally Sunday on the National Mall would honor military families. 
The public has grown uneasy with the war throughout the summer, and the financial pressures of recovering from Hurricane Katrina, and possi­bly Hila, could add to that. 
Almost two-thirds of those 
surveyed said they thought the 
U.S. 
was spending too much in Iraq, according to an AP-Ipsos poll taken after Katrina. About the same number of respon­dents said they were not confi­dent how the money would be spent. Almost six in 10 said the 

U.S. 
made a mistake in invad­ing Iraq, but less than half wanted to withdraw all forces immediately. 


The anti-war effort gained notice last month with Sheehan's protest in Crawford, Texas. But the devastation caused by Katrina, and the government's slow response, have dominated the news the past sevnral weeks. 
Still, Brian Becknr, national coordinator for ANSWEH (Act Now to Stop War and End Hacism), says people have not forgotten about the war. 
"Pnople are very angry at the Bush administration," Becker said. 
The anti-war groups began an advertising campaign Thursday, sponsored by the Win Without War coalition, with an advertisement in The Washington Post and other newspapers. The left side of the double-page ad pictures Bush and administration offi­cials with quotes about weapons of mass destruction in Iraq under the headline "They lied." The right side lists the names of American mili­tary personnel killed in Iraq with the headline "They died." 
A television spot, sponsored by Gold Star Families for Peace, is running on Fox News Channel and local cable TV. Tho TV ad features Cindy Sheehan and other relatives of soldiers killed in Iraq. 
Police are prepared for a large demonstration, said Sgt. Scott Fear of the U.S. Park Police. 

Inventors vie for $2 111illion prize 
Robot-makers and their robots will face off in rugged Nevada desert 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES -Wanted by the Pentagon: A muscular, outdoorsy specimen. Must be intelligent and, above all, self­driven. 
When 20 hulking robotic vehicles fac1~ off next month in a rugged race across the Nevada desert, the winning machine (if any crosses the finish line) will blend the lat­est technological bling and the. most smarts. 
The military sponsors the race to speed the development of unmanned vehicles for combat. The project had an inauspicious start: Last year's inaugural contest ended soon after it began when the robots careered off course or abrupt­ly stalled. One even got tan­gled in barbed wire. 
Fast forward 18 months, and double the prize to $2 mil­lion. 
on last year's course, which spanned the Mojave Desert between Barstow, Calil'., and Primm, Nev. 
The ramped-up preparation reflects the higher stakes for the so-called Grand Challenge. While sweetening the purse, organizEJrs promise that the course, which this year loops from and to a casi­no town on the Nevada­California bordor called Primm, will be tougher and meaner. 
Vehicles will have to drive on dirt and gravel, maneuver mountain switchbacks, squeeze through choke points and avoid man-made and nat­ural obstacles. 
The sponsor of the Grand Challenge is the research arm of the Pentagon known as the Defense Advanced Research ProjEJcts Agency, or DAHPA. whose best­known success story is the 
Newcomers Internet. The
''I'm so hungry for
have joined a Pentagon wants 
race day."
handful of last one-third of the year's teams to military's ground form a motley William Whittaker vehicles to be 
mix of garage unmanned by
robot maker 
tinkerers, aca­demia and cor­porations. All hope that their machines -fitted with the latest sensors, cameras and computers -have aged a generation since last year. 
Teams have beefed up their vehicles' artificial intelligence through improved computer algorithms that will help them avoid pitfalls such as ditches and boulders strewn across the roughly 150-mile-long course. To get there, the robots must com pete in a semifinal showdown that starts Wednesday. 
Entrants include several converted SUVs, souped-up passenger sedans, a modified all-terrain vehicle, a behe­moth military truck and even a motorcycle. 
This year's race shows signs of being extremely competi­tive. Some vehicles have logged hundreds of self-guid­ed miles in the Southwest desert during summer prac­tice runs. Several even tested 
2015. 
DARPA Dir­
ector Anthony 

Tether hopes that a robot will be able to traverse the course in under 10 hours and snatch this year's prize. 
"It's going to be a long day out in the desert," Tether said. 
On Wednesday, 40 teams and three alternates compete for a spot in the Oct. 8 race during the semifinals at the California Speedway in Fontana. 
The vehicles must negotiate a 2-mile stretch of the track using on-board computers, global positioning satellites and various lasers and radar. The top 20 performers will advance to the final starting line. 
Last year's semillnals were disappointing. Only seven entrants completed a flat, 1.4­mile obstacle course. Even so, organizers let 15 vehicles compete in the finals. 
One of the favorites again this year is the Hed Team 
from Carnngie Mnllon  
Univnrsity in Pittsburgh, lnd  
by robotics profnssor William  
"Hod" Whittaknr.  
During last ynar's l'inals,  
Carnegie Mnllon's converted  
llumvee. nicknamed  
Sandstorm, traveled tho far­ 
thest-all ol' 7 1/2 miles - 
before brnaking down. This  
year, tho school entered two  
robots an improved  
Sandstorm and a conv1~rted  
llummer nanwd 111ghlandnr.  
The Carnegie Mellon team  
already has subjected both  
vehicles to extreme ofT-road­ 
ing and hairpin driving in tlw  
desert outside Carson City,  
Nev.  
"I'm so hungry for raen  
day," Whittaker said.  
Among the newcomers: the  
Stanford Haeing Team, whosn  
modified Volkswagen Touareg,  
Stanlny, recently drove 200  
miles without interruption or  
human help in tho Arizona  
desert.  
Team leader Sebastian  
Thrun, a eomputnr seiencn  
professor at Stanford  
University, declirwd to reveal  
how long the jou.rney took.  
"That's our best kept  
secret," he said.  
The autonomous robotic  
vehicles use "d rivo-by-wirn"  
technology, in which on-board  
computers control steering,  ~  
braking and other movmnent.  
As a result, many of tho mnc:hanical linkagns to thn engine are absnnt.  i I  
The vehielns also have sen­sors that pinpoint. thnir loca­ I I  
tion and dllterminn whetlwr obstacles lin alwad. The sPn­ I  
sors feed data to computers  
that, with tho help of a three­ 
dimnnsional canwra, Int. vehi­cles distinguish a bouldPr from a tumblewnml and l~aku­late whether a chasm is too  I i I  
deep to cross.  I  
Participants generally agme  
that the sturdier the vehicle,  
the better it ean handle  
curves and maneuver rocky  
terrain. But the SIH~rnt  
weapon, many say, is each  
robot's eomputnr brain. It  
must have all the right algo­ 
rithms and programming to  
gather information, plot its  
path and change course to  
avoid danger.  




Museum founders plead with city 
The International Freedom Center wants to stay at ground zero 

Address 
915 N. Olive Street South Oend, Indiana (located two block• south of Lincoln way West, South Dend, at the Intersection of Olive& Prost) 
Need a ride? Click here: www.holytrinitysouthbend.org 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK-Founders of a museum devoted to free­dom pleaded Thursday to stay in a proposed cultural building at ground zero, say­ing their center would explore the core American values that were attacked on Sept. 11, 2001. 
The International Freedom Center "will help the world understand and appreciate the sacrifices made on Sept. 11 ," the group said a report to the Lower Manhattan Development Corp.. the rebuilding agency that is reconsidering the museum's place at the World Trade Center site. 
Helatives of trade center victims have vehemently opposed the center, saying it 
would overshadow and take space from a separate memorial museum devoted to the 2,749 dead and would dishonor them by fostering debate about the attacks and other world events. 
"The International Freedom Center has now confirmed that it plans to take the memory of 9/11 and use it to flog their own per­sonal ideology," Anthony Gardner, whose brother, Harvey, died at the trade center, said Thursday. "Politics left, right or in the middle do not belong on sacred ground. Ground zero should not be used as a pub­lic square." 
Development corporation spokesman John Gallagher said Thursday that the agency will use public response from workshops scheduled next week "to inform the upcoming discus­sions and decisions" on tho Freedom Center. 
A mediator has been recruited to help tho family members opposed to the center communicatn with museum officials. Musnu m leaders include one family member -Paula Grant Berry. who lost her husband, David, on Sept. 11. An advi­sory council of' nine family members also supports the museum. 
In its report, Freedom Center organizers said visi­tors would first sen a display on the international response to the attaeks. Each of the more than 1)0 nations that lost victims on Sept. 11 could contribute, 
THE OBSERVER 





IEWPOINT
page 10 hiday, September 23, 2005 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 Sourh Dining Hall. Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR IN CHIEF Claire Heininger 
MANAGING EDIIDR BUSINESS MANAGER Par Leonard Paula Garcia 
Assr. MANAGING EDITOR: Maureen Reynolds AsST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sarah Vabulas AssT. MANAGING EDITOR: Heather Van Hoegarden 
SPORTS EDJIDR: Mike Gilloon SCENE EDimR: Rama Gorrumukkala SAINT MARY's EDIIDR: Megan O'Neil PHOTO EDiroR: Claire Kelley GRAPHICS EDIIDR: Graham Ebersch ADVERTISING MANAGER: Nick Guerrieri AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jennifer Kenning CONTROllER: )im Kirihara WEB ADMINISTRATOR: Damian Althoff 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 fAX (574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR IN CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 obsme@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoinr.l@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sporrs.1@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 scene.! @nd.edu 
SAINT MARY'S DESK 
smc.l @nd.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
OBSERVER ONUN£ www. ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is rhe independent, daily newspaper published in prim and online by the srudents of the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saint Maty's College. Edirorial content, including advertisements, is nor governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the righr to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion oT the majority ofche Editor in Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, lerrers and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Viewpoim space is available to all readers. The free expression ofall opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters ro the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questiom regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor in ChiefClaire Heininger. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Ob\ct~'t1" (USPS ~9l) 2·411(10) h puhli~h~:J Monday rhro~h l~rit!ay ~.~;cpt during ~o:um auJ v:a.uion pl-riuc.b. A !Ub~utption foThc Obi:crvt.'f i~ $100 for one ;~uili:mk )'(';l(; $5510roncKmcsn.-r. 
Th.: Olm::rwr i~ pub!Uhc-t.l .1.1: POSTMASTER 
1114 South lluunK H.1.ll Send adJro.., rurru.:ci.on.-m; Nurre D.unc, IN 46~56-11779 TheOb~>ervt:r l't-ru.lt!it~IIJ',U".&g&: fi;liJ at Nmrc. Dame P.O. Rux 779 .md .ddiuun.el matlm~ offil"O. 1124 Soudt Dining H;lll 
Notre D.ame, lN 4655(..-0779 
The Observer iJ a member of du: A~iucd f'rc». A11 f't"JifOduction riglm arc n:scrvct!. 

Words for Father Jenkins 

Today, you will humbly accept the Presidential Medal and the University Mace. Today, you'll proudly turn to trustees, adminis­trators, faculty, staff, alumni and guests, and articulate your vision for Notre Dame in the 21st century. Today, as your prede­cessor Father Edward Malloy put it, is full of "pomp and circum­stance." 
After 85 days in office, you know well that being Notre Dame's 17th president is about more than symbols and speeches. But your inauguration is still the symbolic launch of your presidency, and therefore the right occasion not only to speak but to listen. Especially to the hopes of another vital University constituency ­students. 
So, Father Jenkins, what do students expect from a University president? More, and less, than you might think. 
+ Student Life 
Notre Dame's revered traditions of residence life are what dis­tinguish it from all the other universities in the country. The sin­gle-sex dorms, while often a source of complaints, also produce powerful bonds and hall pride. The chapels in every dorm, and the pajama and flip-flop filled Masses there each Sunday night, knot the college living experience Ol.fhe 
+ Catholicism 
Fittingly for a University st(~eped in Catholic tradition, your inauguration has been punctuated by acknowledgments and cel­ebrations of faith. Integrating faith into your presidency-as you have with your life -likely also won't prove much of a challenge. But actually operating a Catholic university is less a melting pot than a balancing act, and you will inevitably be forced to choose between certain aspects of faith and academics. And because this is Notre Dame, the entire Catholic community will be hanging on your words. 
When these situations arise, you should draw on all the resources available at Notre Dame -faculty, administrators, Catholic, non-Catholic, Malloy, llesburgh -and solicit their views about the specific dynamic you're confronting. But after doing so, you should trust yourself to make the right decision. Your two predecessors didn't have a lot in common, but they did share a stubborn streak and it generally made them better leaders. Take a page from their book, and don't be afraid to stand up for exact­ly the kind of Catholic university you envision. Honest, articulate leadership will earn you the respect of the student body, Catholics 
and non-Catholics alike. 
+Academics 

userver
with faith. The signature dorm events, SYR dances As a professor, you surely became acquainted and interhall sports bring students together not with the needs, wants, questions and quirks of a only as groups of Dawgs, Ducks or Purple Weasels, classroom full of Notre Dame undergraduates. You
Editorial
but also as smaller, tighter families within the Notre Dame family. Clearly, the list of dorm-based traditions is rich and extensive, and there are three things, as president, you should do about it. 
First, don't change a thing. Though four new dorms are on the horizon, and rules like parietals are always worth review and debate, the core of the Notre Dame dorm living experience should be respected and preserved. 
Second, make sure you participate in it. Your schedule is packed with commitments, and it may seem impossible or illogi­cal to squeeze in time for the dorms. But if you step on the side­lines of a women's intcrhall football game or wind through crowds at the Fisher Hegatta, you'll come to face-to-face with the best elements of Notre Dame residence life -a refreshing reminder that is worthy of your attention. 
Third, consider moving back into an undergraduate residence hall. When your presidency was announced in April 2004, you planned to live in Keenan, and you lived in Sarin before that. But in the ensuing months you chose instead to live in the privacy and relative peacefulness of ofT-campus graduate student housing. Solitude is important, and living situation is a personal choice. But living in a dorm isn't just about being accessible to under­graduates -you can always close your door-it's also about liv­ing the way the University exemplifies and is so proud to associ­ate with its students. It's a powerful statement that very few col­lege presidents nationwide choose to make. You'd be wise to reconsider it. 
surely learned how best to guide, to respond, to 

punish, to reward. Keep those lessons in mind when you set a tone for your administration's hiring and promo­tions practices. The best professors are those who engagn their students in ways that push their buttons and their boundaries. The best professors eagerly schedule one-on-one sessions ouL-;ide of class. They make a point to learn not only the nanws but tlw passions of each student sitting in front of them. 
These arc the profilssors who deserve a coveted place at Notre Dame, and these arc the professors your administration should recruit, hire and retain. You have been in the classroom, and you know it is the nucleus of the University. Notre Dame's classrooms should be filled with those who don't think twice about making students their highest priority. 
+Our Best 
While Notre Dame students arc clearly concerned with more than residence life, Catholicism and academics, these three areas are the most fundamental places to make your mark on the stu­dent body. And while there's more to Notre Dame than under­graduates, recognizing, reflecting on and fulfilling their hopes for these categories will contribute to a successful term as pn~sident. 
Best of luck, Father, as you embark on one of the most diflicult -and most wonderful -jobs ·in academics. Enjoy the "pomp and circumstance" of today. If you respect and listen to the stu­dents who stand behind you. we arc confident you will show you deserve it. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

THE GULP COAST 
TODAY'S STAFF 

News Sports Katie Perry Kate Gales OBSERVER POLL 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Mary Kate Mike Gilloon 

How many inaugural events
Malone Kyle Cassily 

are you planning to attend? 


fSubmit aLetter
Jenny Hames Scene 
"Don't be too timid and squeamish aboul 

a. 3
Viewpoint Liz Byrum 
your actions. !llllife is an experiment. The

b. 4or more 
more experiments you make the heller." 

Sarah Falvey c. 2 
!fo> tbe·E~itlr at .
Graphics d.! 
Ralph Waldo Emerson 

e. 0
Kelly MacDonald 
author

1www.ndsmcobserver.com I
*Poll appears courtesy of 
www.ndsmcobscrvcr.com and is based on 98 responses. 

THE OBSERVER 



IEWPOINT
Friday, September 23, 2005 page II 
An open letter to President Jenkins 
Univnrsity President John Jenkins' installmnnt today is certainly a time of celebration. This writer is among the most sincnm of Notre Damn alumni wishing Jnnkins the wis­dom and eourage to lead as though he was walking through ( ;alilne, not on Wall Street. Jenkins laces many of Notre I>amn's most pressing challenges that stmn from years of sell~denial and nng­lnd. Jenkins alonn must preserve truo acadmnic frnndom, restoro tho morale of ~~am pus stall', dispnl rather than enforce a myriad of negative perceptions nation­ally against Notrn Dame and desi'it from equating 1:mnpus sodal conservatism with Catholidsm. 
University functions glide like an oman liner's course, steady on il'i approach and slow to alter direction. .Jenkins is corrod when he dnscribes Notre Damn as having a distind placn in /\mnrican oducation with no nned for radical chango. Yet a mursn corrndion i'i in order if Jenkins is to attain tnm diversity while changing mispercoptions of Notrn Damn. 
To ouL'iide critil~'i. Notre Dame's message has been largely inconsistent with il'i actions, !-,riving rise to the "Catholic Disnnyland" labnl. One nnnd only to stop back months when, f(.r tlw first timn in gnnerations, thn University outright fired a I wad liJOtl>all coach -ironically il'i first minority head eoad1 ever-whiln professing to eh11rish academies over athlntics. Hnsnntful sporL<; writers denind Notm Dame the national titln in lilvor of Florida State due in part to Notre Damn's pnm~ivnd sell~rightnous attitude. Jenkins should insist that tho University's goal of tho "highost possible aca­dmnic standards" f(Jr athlotos never bo callnd "our stan­dards," implying that other univnrsitios have lesser pro­grams. 
.hmkins has a daunting task in battling such long-standing snntimm1t. Decades ago bigoL<; hurled li'ih and whiskey bot­tins interrupting a Drn1 Devine coached game. Fr. Joyce, rep­rnsenting the University at NC/\1\ meetings, faced more eowrt bigotry when his proposals were regularly defeated by coalitions of anti-Notre Dwne factions. Eventually Joyce quietly asked othnrs to introduce his initiatives which were 

Gary Caruso 
Capitol Comments 
adopted. 

Unfortunately, academic and social hostility also simmers against the University. If not for the now bulging endow­ment, Notre Dame would still fail to quali1y for U.S. News and World Report's top-ranked universities as it often did a decade ago. The University countered that it could not com­pete with medical schools like Georgetown. However, a per­sonal conversation with the reporter revealed that other provosL<; and deans consistently rank Notre Dame academi­cally low. Ironically and embarrassing, Notre Dame now repeatedly tops tho Princeton Review's list of most homopho­bic campuses. 
Jenkin..<;' frrst task is to choose his personal gatekeepers wisely and to resurrect the sense of family among the cleri­cal and support staff. Several longtime staff, both retired and near retirement, lament how they were cast aside by the past govorning ~rroup who were self-absorbed in their lead­ership roles. 
Jenkins' team must cultivate and renew the feeling of fam­ily throughout the Dome and at the most basic staff levels across campus. Jenkins himself should imitate the path of Galilee and make time to walk with those who arn the l11ast paid on tho University payroll. 
Diversity is more than just an acceptable ethnieity percent­ago of' the overall campus population. Where are the blue collar studenl'i embodied in Rudy's personal story? Diversity embraces soeial and economic differences, religious differ­ences, political dillerences as well as academic dillerences. In faet, academic freedom is the constitution of diversity. 
President Jenkins must encourage all points of view on campus regardless of how repmhensible thn message my seem to the Vatican. It is especially wrong to exdude publidy elected Catholics who refuse to impose their reli~rion on those whom they represent. It is also wrong to spurn pro­choice Domocral<; while embracing Hepublieans who favor capital punishment and war. Should a Catholic John Hobnrl'i, as Supremo Court Chief Justice, hold true to his statement that Hoe v. Wade is settled precedent, will Notre Dame also snub him? 
We all lead lives ofimperfection, and it seems that in rejoicing over the perceived Catholic character of some, the University finds itself in a position where it does not walk its talk after the revelation of personal shortcomings. Notre Dame's history is littered with embarrassing momenl<; eaused by overarching celebrations for flawod beings once held as icons. Jenkins c<m Inurn from tho awkwardness of Tom Dooley's sexuality. ofGE Chairman Jack Welsh's divorcn and extramarital a.llitir or the remorse of presenting George Gipp's monogram sweater to Honald Heagan. Graduates like current Secretary of State Condeleezza Rk11 dnserve a· hearty and appropriate welcome on campus, but without such over-tho-top Catholic rhetorical exuberance that neg­lects the possibilities of her personal thoughts and liliJstyln. 
Internally, Notre Dame n11eds to socially evolve with mnd­ucational housing on campus. The notion that the University L'i more socially in linn with Catholic characl.f1r is r11minisennt ofthe self-flogging monk in the movie, "Tho Name of the Rose." Catholici'im i'i no better servnd by traditionalisL<; than progressives. If the Vatican can condone conflicting stan­dards within the Eastern Ortl10dox wing of the church, Notre Dame need not hide behind Bob Jones University's "bible rule" of keeping male and li:Jmale studenl'i at lna'it a bible's length apart at all limns. 
Pope John XXIII initiatnd long overdue changes to the Church. Jenkins should likewisn embracn the 21st Century after thro11 decades as a coedueationa.l institution. Catholic University of America in Washin6rton, D.C., is no less Catholic for it<; parietals and selnctive ccmducational housing. Notrn Dame's character will be no less Catholic with a eoeduca­tional dormitory. 
Today whilo tho campus celebrates the transition of University management and prays lhr wise guidance, sup­port for President Jnnkins justifiably overflows. I lis futun~ is unclear, yet hopdul that he can rnstore a sense of liunily and modernize social attitudes on campus. Hi'i path is dilliwlt but not impossible as he combaL<; the culture of bigotry seething at tho gates of campus. His success lies in ov11ry quarter of the Notre Damn eommunity as we tognthnr eom­bat sell~serving ineonsistoncy with the humility ofGalilnn. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, is a political strategist who served as a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton:~ administration. /lis colwnn appears every other Friday. 1/e can be contacted at hottline@aol.mm. 
The views expressed in this colwnn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A shirt solution 
/\ftnr reading the endless stream of totters that have flood­lid the pages of The Observ11r over the last several weeks eon­l:erning the color of The Shirt, we feel that most students have come to realize that this nagging dnhate is a thorn that will never hHtvn our sides. 
Wn have turned to the Viewpoint section week after week looking for a letter to pro­pose a satisfactory solution to this problmn that can appnasn all sidns, and yet. all we find is con­stant biekering over which color is bnttnr without anyone provid­ing any possible solutions. 
This lettnr hopes to provide a final answnr that can resolve the eonllict that currently plagues our student body. Our answer, we will admit, is a little ridiculous, but at least it is an attompt to appease both sidos, The Shirt lovors and detestnrs. It will allow for eontintwd sales of the new Shirt, which go to worthwhile causes, and it will allow the stu­dent body to keep their sonse of unity during games. In addition, it will permit those who hate The Shirt to have their turn to express their distaste without causing the student body to look like a kalei­doscope of eolors, while potential­ly starting a new tradition that will be uniqu11 to our University so we will no longer have to worry about app11aring like our hated enmnies. 
Now that the benefits of the plan have laid a foundation for our proposal, wo would now like to present our idea to the student body. We feel that before students leave for the game on a Saturday afternoon they should wear two shirts. the new yellow Shirt over­top of a green one. Now, for the first half, we will be a student body united under "the eolor of the dome." · 
When the band eomes out on the field to play for halftime, we all then proceed to break out of our golden shells and expose the sea of green. This will be the color for the second half, and it will keep the student body in one uniform color while allowing Shirt detesters to have their chance to express their anger at tho ugliness of this year's shirt. Even though this may seem like a completely asinine proposal. it will prevent us from looking like a discombobulated mess on national television, instead of one student body that is unitod behind its team. This solution will end the debate over The Shirt by allowing both eolors a chanee to shine, while achieving the true purpose of the Shirt, which is to 11xpress our unity as a student body. 
In the end, this idea may seem a bit farfetched and more of a whimsical approach to the mat-, tor, but you'd have to admit it'd be pretty sweet. 
Jake Badke Josh Ensell sophomores Morrissey Hall Sept. 22 
Faith in the team 
Like the rest of the student body on Saturday, I was crushed as I watched Michigan State run the ball into the end zone for the winning touchdown. We were down and out in the middle of the game. We made a great comeback, tied and brought the game into overtime and then all of a sudden the glory of a victory was snatched from our hands and unjustly given to the classless Michigan State. 
Perhaps what made the victory all the more heartbreaking, aside from game being so close, was also the fact that I've been here for three years and I've seen the football team lose way too many times. When we beat Pittsburgh and Michigan at the beginning of the season I couldn't help wrapping myself up in the hype and dreaming of actually experi­encing a national championship season. I've been a football fan ever since I was little girl, from the time my dad would drag me to the Eagles games up through high school when I first became a Notre Dame fan. 
The game has become an important part of my life and I know that the majority of stu­dents at Notre Dame feel the exact same way about the team. Sure the comeback on Saturday was great, but as Weis himself said a loss is a loss and it's eertainly not something to celebrate. 
That being said, here are the reasons why as time goes on, I've decided not to let this foot­ball game bother me. Hather than looking backward I am now fully prepared to look ahead. 
First of all, a heartbreaking loss against Michigan State provided the perfect atmos­phere for the true spirit of Notre Dame to filter through the student section. When Michigan State ran in for the touchdown, no one in the student section left. I couldn't help thinking back, as I stood there singing the fight song and swaying to the /\!rna Mater, to the Pittsburgh game I had attended two weeks before when all of the Pittsburgh student sec­tion was gone before the half. The fact is that something like that would never happen at Notre Dame. We support each other and we support our team until the very end no matter 
what. 
;\ student section that remains in their seaL<; after their football t11am has lost is ram and unique in th11 world of college football today and every single student hero should be proud of that fact. The remaining student s11etion makes an impression and people takn notice. We aro even rumored to have securnd a cou­ple of four and live star recruits up horn on unollicial visits just because we stayed and supported our team even when th11y ended up down 41-43. 
Despite the loss, I am nothing but optimistic about the games to -come. Truo, wn have tho toughest sch11dule in the nation, but maybn that's because we'rn the toughest t11am in the nation. Maybe that's because our fans would do anything for our football team, induding driving six or seven hours to attend the away games. 
I've heard of a numbnr of Notre Damn lims who are aetually flying to Washington for tho game and I'm positive that a good deal of' the student body will be headed down to Purdue in two wonks. 
I'll delinitnly be watehing Farley's "What Would You Do For 2 Purdue Tickets'!" on Monday night. I've seen people signing up in the dining hall who would do anything from swallowing a goldfish to chugging ungodly amount<; of milk just so that they ean get a Purdue ticket, drive to Lafayette and support our team. 
The point is that I still have eompletn faith in our football tmun and I hope that fweryonn else on campus does too. I have faith because the Notr11 Dame spirit is unlike anywhere else, because the Notrn Dame fans would do any­thing for their team and bocaus11 our team has already proven that they have tho skill, the athletieism and the coaching nended to win. 
Amanda Cleveland junior Farley llall Sept. 22 

THE OBSERVER 





CENE
page 12 
Friday, September 23, 2005 
CD REVIEWS 

Band shows it is time to join 'The Fray' 
Joe King's guitar, Dave Welsh's bass By CHRIS McGRADY 

and Ben Wysocki's drums accompany Assistant Scene Editor 
Isaac Slade's powerful vocals and deft­handed piano skills. Together the band 

Discovering a new great band is like forms a musical ensemble than can rival, finding money in the pocket of your old if not outplay, the bulk of superficial and favorite coat: You slip on the sleeves of ultimately run-of-the-mill musical groups that worn old jacket that has been hang­that llood today's airways and radios. ing in your closet since last April and feel Clean and uncompromising in their the smooth touch of a folded bill. When musical background, The Fray choose to you withdraw your hand you feel that use guitar and piano as the cornerstone happy worn caress and look down to see of their music and largely stay away the wrinkled visage of Andrew Jackson from synthesized affects that can detract smiling back at you, whispering, "spend from the true harmonically strong flavor me." of their music. 
. This is the same feeling one gets when The band's sophomore album, "How to first listening to The Fray; surprise, nos­Save a Life," could have instead been talgia and above all, a feeling of discov­entitled "How to Make Good Music," as ery as your ears are opened to a musi­this disc is impressive. cally complete, talented and great band. The album opens with the upbeat song Despite releasing its first CD under the "She is" and continues into the incredibly Epic label on Sept. 13, The Fray's first catchy tune "Over My Head." This is the tracks are just now hitting the airwaves. type of audio nicotine that will have you 
Although it's still premature to com­humming all day but the catch is, unlike pare this band to the likes of greats such the annoying pop ballads you're used to as U2 and Coldplay, The Fray possesses crowding your cranium, you'll want it to that same rare quality of undeniable get stuck there. musical talent and classic sound. The Fray is so aptly skilled at writing 
that they seem to have mastered reaching out to

How to Save a Life 
their audience ­
their songs are filled with emo­The Fray tion and feeling and you can hear this in every word SonyBMG of lead singer and pianist Slade's-~'::) ~-jfj .. ~· vocals. The band
.[.. ...?-!· 6,~?~-~/~ 
.. ' ~ : .. 0 ' •.. 'jt,;J Jt<s has the innate
..,

~ ability to sound both new and
Recommended tracks: 'She Is,"Over My Head,' 'All 
familiar, inspiring 
a warm sense of fresh nostalgia. 

at Once,''How to Save a Life' and 'Trust Me' 

Photo courtesy of thefray.net The Fray formed in 2002 with Isaac Slade (right) and Joe King (middle left) and has a loyal following in Denver, Colo. The band has toured recently with Ben Folds. 
The Denver-based troupe already has a fiercely loyal following in the Denver metro-area and is quickly expanding their horizons -after performing sold­out shows across the state they are now on tour with Ben Folds. 
Their first CD "Reason EP," was an instant classic in the Denver community and The Fray instantly became an area favorite, winning the Best New Band Award given out by Denver's Westward Magazine. 
The Fray recently opened for popular band The Killers at Hed Rocks Amphitheatre in Morrison, Colo. However, if you walked in late you might not have realized who was opening for whom, as it seemed at times like Fray fans outnumbered the homicidally­inclined in the crowd. This intense fol­lowing is sure to follow the group across the country. 
Put this money-maker in your pocket and keep it; this is one CD that is a wel­come addition to any music lover's col­lection. 
The only thing holding this band back from a perfect rating is the feeling that there is still something more to offer ­this band is r.apable of something amaz­ing. 
The battle has begun, my friends. It's time we all joined The Fray. 
Contact Chris McGrady at cmcgradl @nd.edu 
Indie rock band releases new album_ and plays Notre Dam_e 
By JOE LATTAL Scene Critic 

So many things have contributed to the eruption of the indie rock genre in the past few years. The iPod helped. The staleness of the abused nu-metal and aU­rock genres helped. The surprising amount of exposure given to the genre by typical mainstream outlets such as MTV and commercial radio helped. 
But what stole the spotlight for today's indie rock heroes, such as Interpol, Franz Ferdinand and The Decemberists, is the amount of imagination that the best bands in the genre have put into each verse, lyric and note. 
Clap Your Han.ds Say Yeah is the next example of a band in the genre that put out their album at the right time. The explosion of indie rock and its accessible stepchild, Pitchfork Media, are the pri­mary explanations for the New York band's impressive success. 
Don't believe it? Try getting a ticket to see the band in New York, Chicago, Philadelphia, Boston or anywhere in Canada. All shows are sold out. But if you're looking for a chance to catch Clap Your Hands, you are in luck. They will be on campus Saturday night. 
Once you hear the album, it's easy to understand why everyone is clapping and saying "yeah." By the end of the opener "Clap Your Hands," you are unsure whether you just walked into a circus or a Baptist preacher's sermon. Backup voices and organ sounds·spiral around Alec Dunsworth's voice commanding to "clap your hands." The simple-minded track is not the group's greatest achieve­ment, but it serves the purpose of pulling any listener into the album. 
The next track, "Let the Cool Goddess Rust Away," answers one of these ques­tions. Clap Your Hands Say Yeah wants to have fun in an unconventional way. Dunsworth's voice takes center stage as percussion is simply tambourine and kick 

ClapYour Hands SayYeah 
Clap Your Hands Say 


Recommended tracks: 'In This Home on Ice,' 'Is This Love?,"Heavy Metal' and 'Over and Over Again' 
drum and rhythm is the same two chords for three minutes. 
"Over and Over Again (Lost and Found)" continues the exercise in simplicity but adds a more active bass line as well as an actual chorus, though it just consists of a few repeated syl­lables. The songs grow progressive-ly catchier with the addition of keyboards that dig up memories of past Grandaddy and Talking Heads records. 


The swift strumming at the start of "Is This Love?" provides a pleasant contrast to the rest of the album's more deliberate drums. The stream of consciousness vocals comfortably complement a tran­quil melody: "Now that I'm so sad and not quite right, I could dance all night ... Jet's just take it slow in this home on ice." 
While Ounsworth doesn't display much in the way of a vocal range, his soothing voice provides a pleasing contrast to a brilliantly _structured and produced album. Each of the 12 tracks is unique and addicting in its own way. From music boxes to conventional indie pop, Clap Your Hands Say Yeah displays the imagi­nation that earned the genre exposure in the popular music spectrum in the first place. 
Students at Notre Dame have a unique opportunity to experience the band this Saturday night. Clap Your Hands Say Yeah will play a free show at Legends Sept. 24 at 9:30 p.m. 
Contact Joe Lattal at jlattal@nd.edu 
introductions. The song features an addicting, sing-a-long chorus that repeats the song's title and a celebratory, anthem-like climax at its conclusion. 
When the sounds of harmonica and tambourine can be heard in the first measures of a song by the name of "Heavy Metal," it's quite a treat. The swirling backup vocals on the track serve as· instruments, focusing more on dynam­ics and melody versus cliche lyrics. The busy chorus flashes in and out between upbeat and catchy verses. 
The listener has to dig deep to find the definitive Clap Your Hands song, "In This Home on Ice." The relaxing chord pro­gression lays over delicate cymbals and 
THE OBSERVER 


CENE
Friday, September 23, 2005 
page 13 

DPAC SPOTLIGHT 
'Citizen Kane' is. a rare find 

Photo courtesy of jazz.wojtaszek.pl A poster advertises the release of "Citizen Kane" in 1.941.. Orson Welles, who directed the film was also nominated for Best Actor at the 1942 Academy Awards. 
By VINCE LABRIOLA 
Scm~ Critic 
Modern American cinmna has creat­ed a ~~ountlt$S numlwr of films, span­nin!{ rwarly a I00 YIHtrs in the process. Yot, so fflw possnss that undmriably ~.inwl1:s~ ~1uality that truly dnf'inns a 
dasstc lrlm. 
Film tlworists write artielns. erities debate and tho avnra!{e viewer simply r11turns again and again to tlwse lilms -a testanwnt to tlwir greatnnss. 
Orson Welles' smn­Welles does with
Citizen Kane 
inal 1941 work the camera and "Ci lizmr Kane" is thinking of the
Directed by
onn of those films. more contemporary For anyone inter­J'ilms that have
Orson Welles 
ested in the eine­emulated it like tho ma, it is a required deep, shadow--filled
(1941)
screening, a film so lighting of "The monum1mtal. both Godfather." Welles
PAC Classic 100 Film
technically and does it here 11rst. aesthetieally, that Saturday, The twisting cam­its tremendous September 24 era shots in "Fight inlluiHH~n on lilrn is Club" -Welles did it
3 p.m.
felt to this day. nearly 60 years l>ncnptivnly simple, prior, without the ynt incredibly corll­aid of computer
.'.iJ) ..'·XJ,,.), ·''iJ.) ,· 11.,) . ". )J
~ ':,:, ,; '', .., i\\· ~., .•,j;"
pl11 x, "Citizen 
J . $1 ' &,
Kane" not only 11stahlished Welles as a master of his 1:raft hut has since bocome recognized one ol' tho most enjoyable thnatrn­going oxperioncns evm. 
Tlw story is simpln enough. Charlns Kane (play11d by Welles himseln. a fab­ulously wealthy nnwspapor baron, dies orw night aftnr uttPring a single word: "rosebud." 
In an niTort to uncover tho nwaning of this ullnrance, a local reporter pro­CIHHis to intorvinw the pnoplo dosnst to Karw during his lifo. 
What nnsuns are a series or nash­backs that toll tho story of a man with a turbul11nt past. and how he rose to lwcomn orw of' tho most ruthless busi­nnssnrnn in thn world. 
Wnllns, making his einematie dnbut with this f'ilm when he was only 25 ynars old, makes rnasterf'ul use of his mndium. 
Every shot is oxpnrtly eomposod, bnautil'ully light.nd and perfectly acted. In fact. it's difficult to give the film Pnough crodit hero and now, although it has IHH1n the subject of countless numbers of artkles and critiques. 
"Citiznn Kane" is a film that simply must been seen. Nothing else can do it justice. 
On paper, it is a story of a complex man, his success and failures. his many pnrsonal contradictions and the impressions he lnft on those closest to him. 
Onscreen, however, Welles presents 
. his story with such !lair and talent that it becomes that rare mm which keeps your eyns riveted to the serenn from boginning to end. Bning a modern audience member, it's almost as much fun watching what 
·~Ji; ~.' 
. . :.:, ..Jj ol'l'ects. 
"Citizen Kane" 
was a film that 
truly def'ines what 
American cinnma is all about -push­
ing to thn absolute limits of storytelling 
and tnchnical craftsmanship, and the 
result is a spectacular film that will 
remain one of tho most prominent 
landmarks in tho history of einoma. 
ll should como as no surprisn, then, 
that "Citizen Kano" was chosen as one 
of DeBartolo Cnnter for the 
Performing Arts' "Classic 100 Films," 
whnrn it joins tho ranks of such memo­
rable movies as Fritz Lang's 
"Mntropolis," Federico Fellini's "La 
Dolen Vita" and Jean-Lue Godard's 
sublirnn Nnw Wave elassie 
"Breathless." It eertainly dosnrves to 
be ranked in the midst, if not above all 
those lilms. 
Make it a point to head over to the 
DPAC this Saturday at 3 p.m. for the 
screening of "Citizen Kane." If this is 
your first vinwing or just tho lirst time 
seeing it on the big screen, you can 
rnst assured it will be a cinematic 
experience not soon forgotten. 
Contact Vince Labriola at vlabriol@nd.edu 


NOTRE DAME'S BEST... 

BY OBSERVER PHOTO STAFF 
Brian Faist, a senior, works at the Rockne Memorial and his job is to belay students in the rock climbing room. 


Jim McMahon is an off-campus senior who likes his job because he gets to hang out with his friends while wot:king as a bartender at Legends. 
For next week: Where are the best places to eat on campus? Send your suggestions to obsphoto@nd.edu. 
page 14 The Observer + CLASSIFIEDS Friday, September 23, 2005 
MLB-NATIONAL LEAGUE 

Phillies chop Braves, keep wild card berth alive 
Lieber blanks Atlanta through eight, Philadelphia downs Hudson in ninth 
Associated Press go-ahead run at third and only Barry Bonds and missed a 
one out. chance to gain ground in the 
ATLANTA The Hudson grounded out weakly NL West. Philadelphia Phillies are hang­in front of the plate, and Rafael Zimmerman, the No. 4 over­ing tough in the wild-card race Furcal's sharp liner was back­all pick in June's draft, hit two -and they aren't giving up on handed by David Bell to end singles and scored, Short deliv­winning the NL East, either. the threat. Then, the Phillies ered two doubles and an RBI, 
Keeping the heat on Atlanta, took advantage of a fading and Carrasco threw 5 2/3 Jon Lieber pitched eight score­Hudson, who threw 116 pitch­shutout innings to help less innings and the Phillies es. Washington (78-75) end a four­scored four runs off Tim game losing streak. Hudson in the ninth to take Houston 2, Pittsburgh 1 Another rookie, left fielder another series from the Braves With one eye on the Weather Brandon Watson, threw out with a 4-0 victory. Channel and another on the Moises Alou at the plate in the 
Jimmy Rollins led off the Pittsburgh Pirates, the Houston second inning. afternoon with ·a single, Astros managed to win an "You feel especially good extending his hitting streak to important game on a day filled inside when the kids go out a post-1900 franchise-record with distractions. there and do a job for you," 
27 games. Philadelphia fin­Brandon Backe made his sec­Nationals manager Frank ished strong, too, as pinch-hit­ond successive strong start and Robinson said.."This team is ters Michael Tucker and Shane the Astros, scurrying by long probably going to have a differ­Victorino came through with distance to get family members ent face on it by the time we two outs in the ninth. out of Hurricane Rita's path in see it next year opening day." 
Tucker hit an opposite-field Houston, held their lead in the Carrasco -who had a grand RBI single to break up the NL wild-card race by beating total of one start in 557 scoreless duel, and Victorino the Pittsburgh Pirates. appearances in the majors followed with a three-run Backe limited the Pirates to before this month -declared homer to right. one run and two hits over that he wants to be a member 
"When I saw IJefn J<rancoeur seven innings and Brad Lidge of the rotation, not the bullpen, stop running, I knew I had hit preserved the lead, getting the in 2006. my first major league homer," final four outs. Lance Berkman ''I'm not afraid to say, 'Give said Victorino, a September drove in two early runs against me the ball,' because I know callup. "It couldn't have come rookie Zach Duke, and the what I can do," he said after at a better time." Astros made them stand up for lowering his ERA to 1.15 in 
Indeed. The Phillies won two their eighth win in nine games. three starts necessary because of three at Turner Field, closing The Astros stayed two games of injuries to other pitchers. within four games of the up on Philadelphia in the NL Said Robinson: "He was good Braves with nin!J left. wild-card race with nine games his first time out, excellent his Philadelphia has at least made remaining. Houston starts a last time out, and super today." things interesting by beating series Friday afternoon at Four relievers finished up the Atlanta five times in seven Wrigley Field against the four-hitter, with Jon Rauch (2­games over the last week and a Chicago Cubs. 4) getting the win for a 1-2-3 half. Backe made perhaps his best seventh, and Chad Cordero 
"Our whole thought process" start of the year -he struck pitching a perfect ninth for his that's a plus." Friday, followed by a four-game is on winning the division, out six and walked none -major league-leading 47th The Padres' second loss in home series against the Padres Lieber said. "That's all that's on despite having matters on his save. three game to last-place starting Monday. San Diego our minds." mind despite baseball. A native Colorado dropped them back to opens a three-game series at 
As for the backup plan, of Galveston, Texas, he has Colorado 4, San Diego 2 . 500 (76-76) and saw their lead Arizona on Friday. Philadelphia remained two been spending most of his wak­A year ago, it was unclear over second-place San It has been a long recovery games behind Houston in the · ing hours making sure his par­when -or even if -Aaron Francisco drop to 4 1/2 games for Cook since Aug. 7, 2004, wild-card race. The Astros ents and other family members Cook would take the mound in the NL West. The Giants when he left a game complain­completed a sweep in were safe before the hurricane. again for the Colorado Rockies, played at Washington on ing of dizziness and shortness Pittsburgh with a 2-1 victory let alone almost throw a Thursday. of breath. Doctors discovered over the Pirates. Washington 2 shutout at Coors Field. San Diego, which has strug­the potentially life-threatening 
"It's more or less just winning San Francisco 0 But after missing most of last gled to score runs as it tries to blood clots, forcing Cook out of games at this point," Tucker In what amounted to an audi­season after doctors found hold on to the lead in the weak baseball until July 30. said. "If you win games, it tion for next year, rookie Ryan blood clots in his lungs in 2004, West, lost 20-1 Tuesday night Since his return, he's been doesn't matter who you're Zimmerman, career minor lea­Cook did just that, winning a and could muster only a series the Rockies best pitcher, allow­playing -at least you give guer Rick Short and fill-in career-high and franchise­split of the four-game series in ing 14 earned runs in his last yourself a chance. That's all starter Hector Carrasco all record sixth straight decision Denver. seven games. we're trying to do right now." came up big for the and leading the Rockies to a "It's a tough loss," Padres For eight innings on 
Manager Bobby Cox was Washington Nationals. victory over the NL West-lead­manager Bruce Bochy said. "I Thursday, Cook seemed booed when he came out to With little to play for other ing San Diego Padres. thought Adam [Eaton] threw unstoppable. He allowed eight make a pitching change after than finishing above .500, "Initially we just wanted him the ball well. We just couldn't hits and retired the side in Victorino's homer. The home Washington used a lineup of to be able to get healthy," quite cash in on a couple of order in the first, third, fifth fans were upset that he let rookies and reserves and still Rockies manager Clint Hurdle opportunities there." and eighth innings. He got 15 Hudson (13-9) hit in the bottom managed a victory over the San said. "And now for him to come The Giants open a three­ground ball outs and had to of the eighth with the potential Francisco Giants, who rested back and be able to pitch, game series at Coors Field on work out of a jam only twice. 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 f.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. AI classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
HOMES FOR RENT KRAMER  BUY SELL OR TRADE ND FOOT·  ADOPTION:  Happy Birthday Bruce Springsteen  
FoR SALE  FoR RENT  PROPERTIES HAS HOMES AVAIL· ABLE RANGING FROM 3 BDRMS  BALL TICKETS. TOP$$ PAID. A.M. · 232-2378 P.M.-288-2726  At home Catholic schooled mom  ... and Kyle too I guess.  
UP TO 10 BDRMS. CLOSE TO ND.  
ND FANS For Sale: Cabin 25 mi.  GREAT HOUSES GREAT NEIGH­ FOR 06-07 SCHOOL YEAR. CALL  WANTED: 4 GAs for USC game.  andlawyerdad  Beat Washington  
from ND. Wooded gated community  BORHOODS  KRAMER FOR SHOWINGS ­ Call203·261-8717 Jim.  
with lake access. 3 BD 2BA loft,  andersonNDrentals.com  OFFICE 234-2436; CELL 315-5032.  with 4 yr old big brother  Joe's mother is nice.  
screened porch, FP, $295,000. Call  
619-606·8815.  Lakeside,MI cottage. Perfect for ND game weekends. 7732182203  TICKETS  WANTED  long to share their happy home and  Thai food? Yuck. Ray is cleaning the house.  
1 bdrm condo near ND. All appli·  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  family with a baby.  Next year.  
ances.$69,000. Call Kim Kollar 574­ Furnished room  WANTED: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  
280·8160.  w/everything except food.  TOP$$ PAID. 251-1570.  Do not go it alone.  Financial security/bright future in  Doyle! Diane! Whats u~?!  
S.CA beach community.  
Riverfront Condominiums in Niles.  3 blocks to ND.  FOR SALE: ND FOOTBALL TIX.  If you or someone you love needs  Expenses paid as permitted.  hey kev how's it going?  
Spectacular St. Joe River views.  289-9280 OR VISIT OUR WEB·  confidential support or assistance,  Legal/confidential.  
Condo conversion with new  $450. 289-3397  SITE FOR$$:  Please call Adrienne and Steve  Bridget is my sista  
kitchens,baths,sliders and decks.  www. victorytickets.com  please call  
Only 20 minutes to Notre Dame.  Available 1 bedroom Ivy  toll free any1ime:  Don't turn off the air conditioning  
One bedroom units $99,900.  Residential (Jamison) condo  BUYING & SELLING ND FOOT- Sr. M.L Gude, esc. at 1-7819.  roomates. It's really not nice.  
Two bedroom unit $149,900.  11/21/05 • 05/06. Call Mary Anne  BALL TIX. CHECK MY PRICES.  1·888·476·2220.  
Call  Benedict 607-723-7363.  273-3911.  For more information,  Friday?  
Michael Kuhn of  WE LOVE JACK!!!  
Keller Williams Realty  Free room/board,male,chores/tasks  Need 4 tix to any football game.  see our bi·weekly ad  RADIGAN, RADIGAN HE SOUR  Burnsy I miss you.  
toll-free at  MAN IF HE CAN T DO IT,  Don't hate  
866-840·6511 .  aixcertified@ hotmail.com  Call Jack 574-674-6593.  in THE OBSERVER.  NOBODY CAN!! WE LOVE JACK!  No hate. It's all love  

r-------------------~------------------~---------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-----l 
~ 
Friday, September 23, 2005 page 15 I ~ 
The Observer + SPORTS I 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
SMC SoccER 

Rested Belles travel to ja111boree 


Explosive Calvin 
C01~{erence meet will test runners against MIAA competition 
By KEN FOWLER Spurts Writer 
Tlw B1~llcs travel to Grand llapids, Mich. Saturday to com­pete in the live-kilometer MIAA Jamboree hosted by Calvin College. 
Saint Mary's participated in tlH~ National Catholic Championships Friday and slightly lightened the intensity or its practices this week. 
"We ran hills a little this wnek but it was a mini-workout," lwad coach .Jackie Bauters said. 
She said the Belles are lwalthy for tlw most part and "exciWd" for the event. 
"! think the atmosphere will lw excited," shn said. "! don't want !the runners! to have anx­iety." 
The race is the only MIAA mPI't during the regular season and is traditionally tlw biggest event of the early year for the nirw teams in tlw league. 
The race accounts for one last of its four consecutive third of the league champi­crowns. onship, with the MIAA Albion and Alma tied for the 

to challenge S M C 
Championship Meet <m October league title in 1981. 
21) in Kalamazoo deciding the Bauters said her team is can rest. be compared to Albion. 
By KYLE CASSILYBauters said that the past few "Albion, their situation is sim­

Sporrs Wrirer 

days or training leaves her opti­ilar to ours." Bauters said, not­mistic for the weekend. ing each have young squads. "It "It was a good week ... for all will be really good competi­
Saint Mary's will face its or us," she said. tion." 
toughest conference oppo­According to Bauters, the Bauters said she hoped for 
nent of the year this meet will be a homecoming of strong races from freshmen 
Saturday when the Belles sorts for some of the runners. Alicen Miller and Caitlin 
travel to Calvin College to Junior Jessica Andrusiak went Stevenson for Saint Mary's, 
play in a MIAA grudgp, to Grand Hapids along with good 
match. Catholic Central results from vet­
Calvin is the best that the
"!think the

lligh School, and eran standouts 
MIAA conference has to Bauters said jun­atmosphere will be Sara Otto and 
.o~,offer; it currently holds down ior Katie White Becky Feauto. 
the top spot with an unblem­
excited. I don't 

had family in the Feauto and Otto ished 4-0 record (5-1-1 over­
want {the runners] 

all). In the four league Bauters said the to have anxiety. " weekend at the 
area. led the Belles last 
games, Calvin has netted 24 team expects Burke Memorial 
goals while surrendering a Calvin and llope Golf Course on the 
lone tally to Olivet College in
Jackie Bauters

College to be the campus of Notre 
the season opener.
Belles coach


toughest competi­tion in the meet, with the Belles and Albion fol­lowing closely. 
Before llope won the confer­ence title last year, Calvin had won 16 consecutive league crowns. No team besides llope or Calvin havo won the title since 1984, when Alma won the 


NQMA
dine, drink, + be stylish 
Seeking energetic Restaurant Manager Bar Manager Sommelier Bartender Sous Chef Line Cook Dishwasher Food Runner Server and Cocktail Server Bus and Host To be on the ground floor of New Upbeat Fusion Restaurant/Bar In Downtown South Bend. Competitive Benefit Package Available (2 Yrs Experience Required) Fax Resume to 232-3799 

A concert of Indian Classical Music 
featuring 
Pandit H.a,ian and Sajan lVIishra-VOCAL acc:omp:mled by Kumar Bosl' -Tabla ~antn Prasad i\lishra -Harmonium Uajnish & Ritcsh Mishm -Vocals Friday, Sepremher 23, 7:30p.m. 
::t t.~t )1 uJ's.tiu·ium.. !f{t~~Uu.r:;Ji C.tnte,· f~.,r .t~:.tr;;,c.t:',u:a{ Stutii(ts~ tVniy.·f:nit.~ of :.'v(,.trc ~n;.J.me 
Sronsored hy:
(;.;.::·.' ':; ~f; :.: ;~ ;;j'::::~ :·:.;::~,; ;:: ~~~~=~ (:~: /~::~·;·: ·~ ~;, .' ~;:~·.:.~·~:~ ~ /':~~: ~\~·1·' ~~ /.:;;·~.~­
\,:;:: i: ;:_~ l:~ ·;:.:: ..:h::~; ::r;HH .H:': ~::·~:if::H: <,.{ .·\!' :~. ;;;::,~ V:'!.i'>:.: ·:. 
General Admission: $10 Students: Free 
Contac:t: Amil<IV<t Dutl (6H-751H; 273·0928) 
Dame with five-

During the four-game win­kilometer times of 
ning streak, Calvin has come away with victories of 6-1, 7­0, 7-0 and 4-0 over Olivet, 
20:31 and 20:32. respectively. 
Adrian, Tri-State and
Notes: 
+ Bauters said sophomore 

Kalamazoo. respectively. The Megan Gray began practicing 
Belles' defense will have with the team again this week. 
their hands full as they must Gray was the Belles' top finish­
deal with the dual Calvin er in six of their eight races last 
attack of Sarah Weesies and year but was sidelined for the 
Jill Capel. beginning of the season with 
The duo has accounted for injury. "Her physical therapy is 
th c m aj ori ty of Calvin's going well," Bauters said. 
offense. Weesics has put away all four MIAA game­Contact Ken Fowler at 
winning goals. 

kfowler 1 @nd.edu But Saint Mary's has shown a resiliency against most offensive schemes thrown against it this year, and
VERA 
hopes to contain the Calvin playmakers.


BRADLEY 
"It is going to be a tough
Headquarters 
game, since their team has not really changed at all
~~u~u 
from last year and we havP lost a ton of players." attack­er Lauren llinton said. 
Last year the Belles dropped both games against Calvin. 
"I just think we really rwnd to play as a team and play quicker; just need to talk more," llinton said. She and the rest of her team are !ired up and !'cady to knock off the best. The Belles arc spending a lot of time in preparation. including an extra-long prac­tice on Friday, to make sure they have every obstacle cov­ered. 
Saint Mary's may have its hands full on defense, but Calvin will be on its heels as well if the Belles show up with the offense that has dominated their past thren opponents. The Belles have outscored opponents 7-l in their last three ganws lwhind the drives of attackl'rs Lauren Hinton, Ashley llinton and Colleen Courtney. 
Carrie Orr has been out­standing at keeping oppo­nents in their own zonP, along with Mary Esch and Sarah DuBree on def1~nse. 
With  a  win  the  Belles  
would  move  into  a  tin for  
first  with  Calvin,  in  tlw  

process jumping over twice­beaten Olivet College. The Belles go into action at noon on Saturday playing on Calvin's home-field. 
Contact Kyle Cassily at kcassily@nd.edu 

Checking I 
four products 
es. 
0 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION You can bank on us to be better 
574/631-8222 • www.ndfcu.org 
lndepend•nl ot the Unlver&.ity 

Friday, September 23, 2005 
page 16 The Observer + SPORTS 
MEN'5 INTERHALL FOOTBALL -BLUE LEAGUE 
Zahm takes on Sorin in battle of unbeatens 
winning touchdown last weekBy COLIN REIMER and against Carroll, also figures to DAN MURPHY be a key contributor to Zahm's 
Sports Wri rers 
offensive attack. 
Meanwhile, on the other side 

A clash of Blue League of the ball, Lavorini expects unbeatens will take place big things out of running back Sunday at Hiehle Field as Pat Lopez. It seems that Zahm Zahm and Sorin square off. shares the same sentiment, as Both teams are coming off of Gourley mentioned that stop­hard-fought victories this ping the run will be a major week. and are hoping to carry priority Sunday. their momentum into this con­"Last week we had some test. defensive breakdowns, espe­
Zahm, fresh from a come­cially in communication, and from-behind 14-12 victory we addressed that in practice over Carroll last week, is look­throughout the week," Gourley ing to build off of its win. said. 
"We were missing some key Should the Bats stack the guys last week on the line," line in hopes of stopping said Zahm captain Pat Lopez, expect Sorin quarter­Gourley, referring to several back Stu Mora to have a big injuries that his team experi­day. The Otter signal-caller enced prior to last went 7-for-15 week's game. "Our with one touch­guys really stepped "Our guys really down and two it up last week to interceptions last
stepped it up 
get the win. week, including a Hopefully with last week to 40-yard strike those guys back, get the win. that proved to be we won't die out as the game winner.
Hopefully ...
much in the fourth "We definitely 
quarter." we won't die want another Gourley also said out as much in shutout this week, depth could and we'd like to
the fourth 
become an issue put up a touch­
quarter.,
Sunday, and feels down each quar­that with the ter," Lavorini said. return of those Though offen­
Pat Gourley 
linemen, the Bats sively, those are
Zahm captain 
will possess an lofty goals, anoth­advantage in terms er strong defen­of depth and size that could be sive effort could easily lead to the difference in the contest. the victory. Sunday's game 
However, Zahm 's offense, appears to be very evenly which put together a late matched,· and one mistake fourth-quarter drive last week likely could decide the winner. for the winning score, will The game is also pivotal in face a stilT test in the Otters' terms of seeding for the play­stifling defense. Sorin cap­offs, as the winner will put tain Pete Lavorini described itself in good position to quali­his defense, which posted a 7-fy for the postseason. 0 shutout last week against St. Ed's, as "quick and speedy." Knott vs. Fisher 
"Our defense played really Fisher opens up its 2005 well last week.," he said. interhall football campaign "They're tough, and don't take against Knott Sunday at 1 p.m. crap from anyone." at the Riehle West field, Both 
Sorin, which forced three teams have high hopes for the turnovers last week, will need year and are gearing up for a to continue its dominant play physical battle this weekend. against the Bats' potent pass­The Juggerknotts are look­ing combo of quarterback ing to rebound from their Sean Wieland and wide receiv­opening loss to perennial pow­er Kris Patterson. erhouse Siegfried. Heceiver/running back Jake Despite the 9-0 loss, the Richardville, who caught the team looked promising, keep-
SMC GOLF 

Belles take on MIAA rival team Bulldogs 
By MIKE GILLOON Sports Editor 
Saint Mary's will play in the last of three conference jam­borees this season at 1 p.m. Saturday. The tournament, to be held at Lewanee Country Club in Adrian, Mich. is a final tuneup for the Belles before the MIAA champi­onships in two weeks. 
The team finished second in last week's jamboree with a 
346. Megan Mattia and Katie O'Brien paced the Belles, both shooting an 82 to tie for first place. 
Kirsten Fantom and Nicole Bellino finished 19th as both shot 91. 
The squad shot a course­record 332 at the first confer­ence jamboree Sept. 14. Mattia finished first in that tournament as well with a 79. Fantom was close on her heels with a third-place 82. 
Saint Mary's carries a 4.5 stroke lead over Olivet through two jamborees. Hope is in third place, 12.5 strokes back. 
The MIAA jamborees lead up to the conference champi­onships, to be held Oct. 7-8. 
Contact Mike Gilloon at mgilloon@nd.edu 

ing its opponents from scoring Although it's early in the defensive effort in a 9-0 a single offensive touchdown. season, the game is an impor­shutout of Knott. With the defense running on tant one for both squads. Captain Matt Wopperer pro­all cylinders, Knott focused Fisher would like nothing vided the majority of the most of its attention on simpli­more than ·to start off the sea­offense, returning an intercep­fying the offensive game plan son with a big victory, and tion by Knott quarterback this week in practice. Knott needs this game to keep Matt Whittington for a first 
"The offense was a little too from falling behind the eight quarter touchdown and an complex in our first week," ball. Otherwise, they will need early 7-0 lead. The Ramblers said captain Dan Grady. to win their two remaining rounded out the scoring with a "We're going to try to go back games in order to make the safety in the fourth quarter. to basics this week." playoffs. While Wopperer was pleased 
The revamped offense looks Both teams seemed to be with his defense, the offense to end its scoring drought as focused and ready for an early -shut out on the afternoon ­the defense continues its dom­season showdown between the was an area of concern. inance under the leadership of two possible playoff con­"We didn't play as well reigning MVP Joe McCarthy. tenders. [against Knott] as we would 
Although Knott is excited to have liked," Wopperer said. "I get back on the right track, Siegfried vs. Carroll was very happy with the the team knows Fisher will not .Carroll and Siegfried will defense, but we're hoping to go down easy. face off on Sunday at 3 p.m. make some improvements on 
"Fisher always comes to and both teams understand offense this week." play," Gray said. "They are a the significance of this game. Wopperer points to solid big team who loves to hit." Carroll dropped its first practice time as a cause for 
Jeremy Moreno, captain of game, a 14-12 heartbreaker to optimism heading into the Fishermen, responded by Zahm, and realizes that this Sunday's showdown with saying his players were ready game could make or break Carroll. to come out and play a tough them. "We've had a good week of game to kick off the year. "All the guys were disap­practice, and we have some 
Last year Fisher was elimi­pointed with our performance confidence going into the nated in the first round of the on both sides of the ball," game this week," Wopperer playoffs after a 3-1 regular Vermin captain Kory Wilmost said. "They beat us last year, season record. The team, said. so we have our work cut out which lost seven seniors from As a result, they have made for us." last year, has most of its fire­steps to improve their per­Although the defense was power back and looks to bring formance. rock solid against Knott, a balanced attack on game Wilmot cited the squad's Wopperer and the Ramblers day. Moreno stressed the intense practices throughout have continued to emphasize importance of everyone doing the entire week. its importance, especially if their job in order for the team "We all now understand the they hope to knock off the to succeed. importance of each and every Vermin. 
"We're just going to take game of this short season," "We have been working on things one week at a time and the Vermin captain said. our defense in practice," see how we go from there," Indeed, should Carroll lose on Wopperer said. "Our defense Moreno said. Sunday, the team would have will have to be strong to win 
He feels that last week's bye only two more games and its -defense is the key." allowed the team the extra playoff hopes would take a time needed to scrimmage and severe blow. work out some of the kinks in Meanwhile, Siegfried is look­its game plan. ing to building on a strong 
LIVE AND STUDY 

ROME INFORMATION SESSIONS 
5 PM MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 19  131 DEBARTOLO  
OR  
5 PM TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27  131 DEBARTOLO  



Friday, September 23, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 17 
INTERHALL-WOMEN'S BLUE LEAGUE 
Valdez, Levvis hungry for win after dropping first tvvo 
Lyons is looking for answers up the scoreboard if strong­face off at 1 p.m. at West Quad suecess in their past game.
By JAMES FEGAN AND 
on Sunday about its team after armed quarterback Valdez gets field. Evnn though thnir def'nnsive
BECKI DORNER 
a bipolar performance so far hot. Both Walsh and Badin come play was stellar, crndit must be 
Spons Writers 
this season. After looking like There is talent and experi­into the game with confidence given to quarterback Mary championship contenders in a ence at receiver in co-captain after well-played victories Sullivan, who is very nfTnetivn 
Lewis has to be very glad to 20-0 thrashing of Itoward, the Kara Bailey, and Valdez needs against Lewis and Lyons, on the ground as well as in thn see Lyons on its schedule. After Lions looknd stagnant in a 12-0 to continue to develop a rap­respectively. air, and the entirety of the playing the two partieipants in shutout loss to Badin. The most port with her offensive Badin hopes to knock of'f' the Walsh oiTensive line for capital­last year's title game in its first confusing part of weapons to be defending interhall champions izing on the opportunities givnn two games, Lewis can't help their loss was the successful. with the kind of' intensity that to them.
"Our defense is 

but be enthusiastic for a rela­complete disap­However, the helped them triumph over "It was a team effort," tive break. pearance of a definitely the Lions' defense Lyons 12-0 Tuesday night. Al'tnr Sullivan said. The Chicks have sull"ernd two seemingly high­strong point of might not give two early touchdowns thrown The Walsh women will nned tough losses where they have powered oll'ense. Lewis a chance to by freshman Katie Hose that same kind of teamwork
our team.,

senn their offense struggle to Lyons is going to get situated. Hacknny at quarterback, it was and raw determination against ­produce and turn the ball over continue to pla­At their worst the experience and conlidence Badin if they wish to continue frnquently. toon at quarter­Jene Emery they can be sus­of a strong defensive line that in their winning ways. They 
Against Cavanaugh, the back with Kim Lyons receiver ceptible to the big held the Lions scoreless. will have to contend with a Chicks wnrn shut out, and Murphy and Lynn play, at their best Despite a solid performance, hungry Badin team that hopns quarterback Elisa Valdez's last Truitt, and hope they can cause a the Bullfrogs are very cog­to secure its seeond win of the night passes of the game fell to get the production out of turnover every time out and nizant. of the threats of a strong year. incomplete. Tuesday, Valdez stud receiver Jenni Delaney give quartnrbacks fits. Walsh team. The Bullfrogs arn eager to was intnrcnptnd three times as that mysteriously disappeared Lewis is going to have to bn "[We've been I working on "get back to playing at the l.nwis lost a hnarthreaker to versus Badin. ready for a challenge every bit some plays that we've desigm~d championship level that wn Walsh. Lewis counters with a gritty as tough as Walsh and specifically for Walsh's style of reached two years ago," 
Dnspite the powerful defenses defense that will feature a Cavanaugh. play," Badin captain Meg Charlebois said. th1~y've f<u:ml. things might not strong pass rush from Meaghan For Lyons, it's going to detnr­Charlebois said. "We can't wait A game versus thn defending lw getting any easier l'or Lewis McGarr, who recorded two mine which of their perform­to put them to good use." champions who rmnmnbnr the as Uw Chicks face Lyons, which sacks in the team's opener. ances so far this season was an However, the scrappy defen­f'eoling of' winning in Notn~ features an aggressive defense The Chicks' oll'ense has been aberration. sive play of the Wild Women of Dame Stadium will be a gauge with tons ol' speed. their Achilles heel this year. Walsh will certainly keep even or the potential of both teams. 
"Our dnl'ense is delinitely the They've been flat, unproduc­Badin vs. Walsh the most prepared offense on strong point ol' our team," tive and occasionally turnover­Badin and Walsh will contin­their toes, seeing that it was Contact James Fegan at Freshman rncniver .Jmw Emery prone. llowever, they have tal­ue their 2005 interhall football three interceptions that con­jfegan@nd.edu and said. ent, and are capable of lighting seasons this Sunday when they tributed to much of the team's Becki Domer at rdomer@nd.edu 
INTERHALL-WOMEN'S GOLD LEAGUE 
North Quad neighbors to lock horns Sunday 
just as potnnt. "At praetice this and our wide receivnrs are also
Finest, Babes look to 
week, wn've really focused on very athletic too," she said. rebound after tough the of'fense -getting all thn The Whirlwind wideouts had plays down, adding a couple of better be ready -PE, Wysokilosses last weekend new ones. We will be a force to reports, focused intently on be reckoned with." improving defensive pass cover­
Crucial to t.hn offensive age this year. By DREW FONTANAROSA improvement are haltbaek Kim The Pyros will also be looking and DIERDRE KRASULA Crnhan and two junior widn for their freshman to get nxpnri­Sports Writers receivnrs, Diann Duran and ence in only the second game of 
Annin Parrot. their career. "Diann and Annin are two or "We have a young team," 
Bragging rights are at stake the team's vnterans. They're my Wysoki explained, "nspeeially as rwighhors do battln on go to girls," Popik said. on defense, but they played wnll Sunday at !i p.m. on thn Wnst last gamn." Quad l'inlds whnn thn Brnnn Welsh Family vs. Pasquerilla Along with player inexperi­I' hi II i ps Ba lw s l a k n o n t h n East nnen, the Pyros also have five htriPy Firwst. Whiln being loeat­Fans ol' dnfnnsive showdowns nnw coaches this year. Pd nnxt to naeh otlwr on thn will want to mark their calen­But Wysoki isn't worried. North <)u ad may makn f'or a. dars filr Sunday whnn the Pyros "It's great," she said. "Thoro's rivalry, rwitlwr tnam is intnrnst­of' l'asquerilla East (0-1) takn on so much enthusiasm." Pd in erPating loeknr room the Whirlwinds or Wnlsh Family The Whirlwinds expect to matPrial. ( 1-0) on th1~ West Quad at 4 p.m. temper that enthusiasm. 
What tlu~y arn intnrnstPd in, It promisns to bn a struggle as "Our goal is always getting hownvnr, is putting onn in the both teams proress great raith back to the Stadium," Sands win column. in their rnspectivn derensive said. "It's still tho bnginning, 
Tlw BabPs, losers to Welsh units. though. We're focusing on fun­Family in tlwir first ganw. hopn History burfs may rmnnmbnr damentals at this point." that tlw largn numlwr of' nxpnri­that thren years ago Pasquerilla Fundamental to both teams, Pnend returnnes they have will East won the football champi­hownver, is coming away with a MATI SMEoDBE:RG lwlp tlwm makn a qukk turn­onship. t.hn first tnam besides win. Purple Weasel receiver Diane Duran carries the ball during around. Welsh Fam in thrnn years to do Pasquerilla West's 6-0 win over Farley Sunday. 
"Whiln wn still havn a lot or so. Neithnr tnam is intnrested in McGlinn vs. Pangborn rt·nshman." Captain Shannon past mnetings, however. They Pangborn and McGlinn will It is with this eonf1dnnt alti-up." . Swanigan said, "we do have a arn both nxtremnly focused on both be eoming out strong as tudn that Murray and her oxpe-Tho Shamroeks will be rc~lying numlwr or returning uppnr­thn upeoming game. they continue their 2005 inter­rienced team hope to defeat on the nxp1winncn ol' tlwir sPn­dassnwn. II. adds up to a lot or PE, who lost to McGlinn last hall football snasons this McGiinn. iors to take on this task. "Our (•xpnrinncn." week, will rely on. a newly Sunday on West Quad. "We only lost two startnrs grnatost assot is t.hn snnior 
Swanigan wnnt on to say how installnd of'l'ense led by dual Pangborn and McGlinn both from last year and gainnd quitH class," Meacham said. "Tiwy'ro tlw tnam's ehnmistry has really QB/wide rocnivers Caroline comn into the game with confi­a few quality freshman," really athllltic and undorstand dnv(dopnd this year through Nally and Lnslie Follmer in an dence. Murray said. the game." Limn spnnt at praeticn. of'rort to put points up on the Pangborn will be stepping The Shamroeks of Mc(;tinn McGlinn will have to utilize 
"Whiln I know wn'll havn peo­board. onto thn linld for the first time have a foot up on Pangborn, for this knowledge in hopes of con­pln stop up in thn coming "[Obviously! we want to scorn this year. but will do so with the they have already had the expo-tinuing their so far undol'natod ganws, wn are, at thn lwart of it points," said Megan Wysoki, knowledge that they still have rience of one game this season. season. all, a trun tnam," shn said. captain of' the Pyros. the depth and strnngth that car­Their 20-0 victory over Both teams have a lot at 
Farley sufTered a tough 6-0 Wysoki's squad may have dif­ried them into the semi-finals Pasquerilla East has left them stakn. Me(;linn needs another loss in thnir opnning game ficulty doing that as the last year. with thn conl'idenee that they win to provo that they are not a against l'a.sq.u.e.rilla West. Whirlwinds didn't le! Breen­The_l~angborn Phoxes enter can continue on their viciw:y .. .team to be taken lightly. Captain and quartnrback, Katin Phillips, their previous oppo­the beginning or their season strike. !\ win for Pangborn would Popik, still supportnd thn tnam's mmt, scorn in 24-0 shutout win. with strong senior leadership However, they are aware of insure that t.hey am coming into dnrm1sivn unit. "Of course, our defense," cap­and the skills to lead them to the threats that Pangborn pos-the 2005 soason just as strong 
"They'rn doing a great job," tain Mnlissa Sands said when another successful season. sesses. as they loft that or 2004. 
-
slw said. "All they havn to do is questionnd about the strength of "Our ultimate goal for this "!Pangborn's! quarterback, knnp up thn intnnsity." her team. season is a trip to the stadium, Katie Mooney, is really athletic," 
But being strong on side of the Sands also talked about the but we're focusing on each indi­captain Bridget Meacham said. Contact Drew Fontanarosa at ball donsn't satisfy Popik, as she athletidsm of her team. vidual game," said Pangborn "We want to contain her and afontana@nd.edu and Dierdre is intnnt on making the of"fense "Our dnfense is athletic, but captain Katie Murray. force the other players to step Krasula at dkrasula@nd.edu 
page 18 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 23, 2005 
ND SOFTBALL 



Irish host pair of weekend exhibition contests 
Fall tournament gives team an opportunity 
.for tougher practice 
By ANNA FRICANO 
Sports Writer 
There is a long winter to get through before the softball season officially starts, but the Notre Dame women will 
-
have a chance to test their 
ting 1.000, and no one has yet made an error. For that rea­son, players and coaches alike are of the mindset that the competition is going to be there. 
"Anybody is going to be good competition at this point in the year," Lenn said. 
Saturday will not only mark the unoffieial beginning of the softball season for the Irish, but it will also mark the first time that 2001 Notre Dame 
graduate Lizzy Lemire will step onto the field as some­thing other than a player. Lemire fills a spot on the coaching staff vacated when former assistant coach Charmelle Green accepted a position in the University's student-athlete development office. and former seeo nd­assitant Kris Ganef{' moved into the first-assistant spot. Lemire won two Big East Championships with Notre 

Dame and made three eonsec­utive NCAA appearances, before graduating and earn­ing a spot on the U.S . National Softball team. Lemire joined the staff on Aug. 11, and has been warmly welcomed by everyone in the program. 
"!Lemire] is a great person. She loves Notre Dame and she loves thn program," Leon said. "She definitely has a drive for the school just like all of our other coaches." 

The team is anxious to get the season rolling, and although the Irish only have a few opportunities to play this fall, everyone is excited about the prospect of getting start­ed. 
"I think we look great and we are ready to go." Lenn said. 
Contact Anna Fricano at africaO1@saintmarys.edu 

skills this weekend in a pair of exhibition games. The Irish will host both Wayne State University and Detroit Mercy at Ivy Field on Saturday in a tournament that was officially announced with the fall exhi­bition schedule in late August. 
The tournament will begin at 10 a.m. with a matchup between Notre Dame and Wayne State. 
The Irish will l1nish the day with a 2 p.m. game versus Detroit Mercy, and the two visiting teams will play each other at noon. 
The records of the exhibi­tion games will not count toward the 2006 season, nor will any of the stats. What the events will do is to give the team a better idea of where everyone stands on the field. But how big are these games to the members of this year's team? 
"Well, they're very impor­tant because they're games," catcher Mallorie Leon said. "We want to see where we're at for next season. Coach is taking them as seriously as any other game." 
After graduating five starters last spring, players are seeing plenty of opportu­nities for playing time. With the official start of the season so far off, few definite deci­sions have been made as to who will be playing where on the field. Lenn, a First Team All-Conference player for the Irish, noted that no one on the team is too preoccupied with the eventual necessity of a starting lineup. 
"We're actually not sure [who's starting] yet," Leon said. "Everyone is playing, and everyone gets equal chance to play each position." 
These exhibition tourna­ments are an opportunity for the team, which returns only four starters and has seven freshmen, to see where cer­tain players will fit on the field and in the batting line­up. 
As far as the level of compe­tition goes, it may be too early in the year to know exactly what the Irish will be facing on Saturday. At this point in the season, everybody is bat-

IPIIDTALKSM 
THI lFAITIIT WAY/ TO~ 
speedtalksu 
Unlimited SpeedTalk Minutes Walkie-talkie-style service 

• 
1000 Anytime Minutes 

• 
$49.95 per month 


• 
AOL") Instant MessengerN service-FREE Trial 

• 
Buy 1 and get up to 3 LG UX4750 phones FREE (with 2-year contracts and mail-in rebates) 



i<us.Cellular 
1-888-BUY-USCC • GETUSC.COM 


Offer valid on two-year service agreement on local and national plans of $49.95 or higher. All service agreements subject to an early termination fee. Credit approval required. $30 activa­tion fee. $15 equipment change fee. Roaming charges, fees, surcharges. overage charges and taxes apply. $0.96 Regulatory Cost Recovery Fee charge applies. This is not a tax or govern­ment required charge. Local network coverage and reliability may vary. Usage rounded up to the next full minute. Use of service constitutes acceptance of our terms and conditions. Use of the AOL• Instant Messenger"' service mobile application requires easyedge'·" data services on the account The length of the validity for the AOL~ Instant Messenger'" service Free Trial shall not exceed more than one full day's time. Buy one get three free only valid if a two-year service agreement is purchased for SpeedTalk service on all handsets and requires mail-in rebate per line. Promotional phone is subject to change. Allow 10-12 weeks for rebate processing. SpeedTalk: SpeedTalk capable handset required. SpeedTalk calls may only be made w~h other U.S. Cellular SpeedTalk subscribers. SpeedTalk is only available in U.S. Cellular's enhanced services coverage areas. While you are on a SpeedTalk call, your wireless calls will go direct­ly to voicemail. If you roam outside of U.S. Cellular's enhanced services coverage area you will not be able to place a SpeedTalk call. SpeedTalk is a proprietary service mark of U.S. Cellular. Other restrictions apply. See store for details. Limited time offer. ©2005 u.s. Cellular Corporation. 

~ ~ 
~ ~ ~ 
4 4 
~ ~
OUND THE NATION l ~ 4 
'4 Friday, September 23, 2005 CoMPILED FROM THE OBsERVER'S WIRE SERVICEs page 19 4 


NSCAA Men's Soccer Poll 
team record prev 
1 Indiana 4-0-2 1 2 New Mexico 6-0-0 NR 3 North Carolina 5-0-1 2 4 Virginia 4-0-1 3 5 California 5-0-1 6 6 Maryland 5-1-0 8 7 Akron 6-0-0 
g 8 St. John's 4-1-1 10 g Creighton 4-0-1 15 10 Fairleigh Dickinson 5-0-1 7 11 Duke 4-1-0 21 12 Connecticut 4-2-0 5 13 Santa Clara 4-2-0 13 14 Missouri State 4-0-2 11 15 Wake Forest 4-2-0 14 16 Ohio State 5-1-1 NR 17 Clemson 3-1-1 12 18 NOTRE DAME 4-2-0 18 18 Seton Hall 4-1-1 16 18 Old Dominion 3-1-1 22 21 Binghamton 5-1-1 20 22 UC Santa Barbara 3-1-1 NR 23 New Hampshire 5-0-1 NR 24 Washington 4-1-0 NR 25 NC-Wilmington 5-1-0 NR 
NSCAA Women's Soccer Poll 
team record pre11 
1 North Carolina 8-0-0 1 2 Penn State 8-0-0 2 3 Portland 8-0-0 3 4 UCLA 7-1-0 6 5 Santa Clara 5-1-1 4 6 NOTRE DAME 7-1-0 5 7 Duke 6-0-1 7 8 Wake Forest 5-1-1 10 g Boston College 6-0-0 g 10 California 6-1-1 8 11 Pepperdine 6-0-1 11 12 Florida State 7-0-0 16 13 Virginia 5-2-1 12 14 Texas A&M 5-1-1 14 15 Brigham Young 8-0-0 NR 16 Wisconsin 5-2-1 15 17 Florida 5-2-0 13 18 Connecticut 5-2-1 18 19 Cal Polytechnic 6-0-2 17 20 Marquette 7-0-1 23 21 Texas 3-1-1 21 22 Arizona 4-1-2 22 23 West Virginia 3-3-2 20 24 Yale 6-2-0 NR 25 Cal State Fullerton 6-2-0 NR 
Division Ill Women's Soccer 
MIAA Conference Standings 
tnam record points GF GA Calvin 4-0-0 12 24 1 Hope 4-0-0 12 10 1 SAINT MARY'S 3-1-0 9 7 4 Olivet 3-2-0 9 11 8 Alma 2-3-0 6 5 8 Albion 1-2-0 3 7 6 Adrian 1-3-0 3 3 13 Kalamazoo 1-3-0 3 1 7 Tri-State 0-5-0 4
0 25 

around the dial 
NCAA FOOTBALL Cal at New Mexico State 10 p.m., ESPN Iowa State at Army 8 p.m., ESPN 2 
GOLF The President's Cup, Second Day Coverage 12 p.m., TNT Valero Texas Open, Second Round 4 p.m., ESPN 
PGA 


Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Va. ­Adam Scott watehed his 25-f'oot 1~agle putt from the fringe curl into the len side of' the cup for a 3-up lnad against Tignr Woods and Fred Couples, a serious blow that set the tonn for the International team Thursday in the opening match at thn Presidents Cup. 
Hetief Goosen extended his hand, as if to tap lists with Scott to eelebrate such a big putt in alternate shot. 
But all Goosen wanted was the ball. It was his turn on the tee. 

"I think I got a 'Good putt' out of' him," Scott said with a smile. 
With q\]iet precision, Goosen and Scott turned in a tag-team pnrf'ormanee that buried Woods and Couples and sent the International team into truly foreign territory at Hobnrt Trent Jones Golf' Club, in the lead. 
Mike Weir and Trevor lmmnlman brought up the rear, making four birdies in the first five holes to crush David Toms and Stewart Cink. 
In betwoen, the International team did enough right to take a 3 1/2-2 1/2 lead. 
One point isn't much, especially with 2H matchns left until the cup is award­ed. 
"It's likn a miln raen and you're 50 yards ahead," International captain Gary Player said. "This is as elose as it ean be without being a tie." 
But considering how thn lntemational team typieal­ly starts at BT.J, it was causn for optimism. In three prnvious trips to this golf' course on thn shorns of Lake Manassas, the Americans have twiee led 5-0 and once led 4-1 after the opening day. 
"Scott and Goosen beat­ing Tiger and Freddie was a big thing for t h n International team," U.S. captain .Jaek Nicklaus said. "It set the stage for tlwm hning alwad. It's tho diiTnr­mH:e in them being alwad. Wn Wt~rn hoping for t~xad­1y t lw same s i t u ati o n . I thought we could match up against thnm and do wnll. I was wrong today." 
The Anw ricans didn't havn a lot of' things go right f'o1· them. 
Jim Furyk's first swing of' tho day aggravatPd a rib injury, and lw had to get 
-
therapy betwnnn shots just to finish his match. 
lie and Fred Funk scratched out a halve against Vijay Singh. 
IN BRIEF 
Palmeiro turns on Oriole, 
season may be over 
NEW YOHK -Rafael Palmeiro's season with thn Baltimore Orioles might be over. 
Orioles interim manager Sam Pnrlozzo said that if the lirst base­man had disclosed the name of a toammate who supplied him with the substance that led to Palmeiro's sus­pnnsion for stnroid use, it probably would be bnst that Palmniro not rnturn to the tnam this ynar. 
The Sun in Baltimore, citing unidentil'ied sourcns, reported Thursday that Palnwiro had identi­fied a teammate by name when hn testified bnfore baseball's arbitration panni in an attempt to overturn the susp1msion, which followed a positive 

"It's all speculation as far as I know." Rita could force Saints to make more changes 
SAN ANTONIO -The TV snts just installnd in the New Orleans Saints' locker room at the Alamodome drew a gripped audinnce Thursday, with players in disbelief as the bright radar colors of Hurricane Hita head­ed toward Louisiana. 
While they're concerned about tho city they left bnhind, they're also wondering wlwther a pounding in Baton Hougn would !'oren another change in a season already s1wnrnly altered by Hurricane Katrina. 
"Just about everywhnrn wn go a hurrieane hits," quarterback Aaron Brooks said. "You just can't believe 
damaged thn Superdome, f'ordng the Saints to move their headquarters and practice facility to San Antonio. 
Thn team is scheduled to play three gamos at the Alamodome and four morn at LSLJ's Tiger Stadium in Baton Houge. 
Bench-warmer Bennett to start for Georgia Tech 
ATLANTA -Taylor Bmuwt.t spent most of his high school earner on tlw bnneh. 
Once lw got to (;norgia Tech, his chance to play l'.anw a lot qui1:knr. 
The redshirt frnshman lillnd in last wnek for the l!ith-ranknd Yellow Jaeknts, gntting his f'irsl start at quartorbaek aftnr Hnggin Ball bneame ill with viral meningitis. B n n no tt didn't m a k n any major 
test for stanozolol. it. What the hell is going on? It's like gaffes in a 2S-13 victory over MLB "If in fact that was true, then it a black cloud. We may not bn able to Conneetieut. 
-
probably would not be a good idea" play in Baton Houge if it hits Iikn With Ball still rneovoring, Bnnnntt
Marlins at Braves 7:35p.m., TBS 
for Palmeiro to return, Perlozzo said that." may havn to go again Saturday ­
Thursday before the Orioles played It's bnen less than four weeks since and this time tho stakes would be 
the New York Yankees. Katrina wrecked New Orleans and infinitely highnr. 
r 
' page 20 The Observer + SPORTS Friday, September 23, 2005 
MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL-GOLD LEAGUE 
Morrissey takes on O'Neill in season opener 
By JAY FITZPATRICK, JASON GALVAN and GREGORY ARBOGAST Sports Writers 
The O'Neill Angry Mob (1-0) and Morrissey Manor (0-0) will begin the second week of games in the men's gold division Sunday at Hihele Fields at 1 p.m. 
The Manorites had a bye in Week One and hope to get their season started with a win against O'Neill. To prepare for the game, Morrissey captain Nick Klein has decided not to work on more complex schemes and plays in the weeks prior to the opener. Instead, Morrissey has returned to the fundamen­tals and has hoped to have per­fected the basic plays that Klien hopes will get his team the victo­ry. 
Part of the reason for this sim­plified game plan is that Morrissey hopes to contain the O'Neill offense with their peren­nially good defense. Learning from O'Neill's Week One oppo­nent Alumni, the Manor hopes to force O'Neill to be one-dimen­sional on ofli:mse. 
One problem Morrissey may have is their team's youth. After having graduated many stand­out players on both sides of the football, Klien said he hopes "to see a lot of new stars out there this weekend." 
"We know that O'Neill has already beaten Alumni, who is usually a good team every year," Klein said. "We are prepared for a tough game." 
The Angry Mob has already defeated one good team, Alumni, last week by holding them to only six points while scoring twice through the air. 
"The defense's ability to keep them to a minimum was key to the victory," said O'Neill captain Matt Hughey. "It allowed the offense to drive down the field and get some points on the board." 
In preparation for this game against Morrissey, Hughey has been working to improve his team's defense and has expand­ed the offense's playbook so the Mob will still have some tricks up their sleeves for the Manor. 
Since this is Morrissey's first game, O'Neill will have to base their game plan more on intu­ition than actual game play, a definite advantage for Morrissey. 
But Hughey still believes that this week has been enough time to prepare for the game. 
"It's going to be a tough bat­tle," said Hughey. "Both teams will be ready to win." 
Dillon vs. Keenan 
The Keenan Knights look to continue their winning ways against the Dillon Big Hed this Sunday at Reihle Fields at 2 p.m. 
The Knights are coming off a shutout performance against Keough, where they also con­nected on two big touchdown passes to seal the victory. 
The defending champs were impressive in their victory over the Kangaroos, but still face a long road ahead, which contin­ues with a major contest against the Dillon Big Red. Knights cap­tain Vince Lyzinski was quick to point out that, despite their strong performance in last week's game, they must stay focused and not allow them­selves to grow complacent. 
"We did get the win, but there is still a lot of room for improve­ment," Lyzinski said. 
The Knights are coming off a victory where they were able to completely shut down the Keough offense. In addition, the Knights sport a potent ofl'ensive attack centered on a solid offen­sive line and a talented running back. · 
"Alex [Staffieri] is a big ol' work-horse running back," Lyzinski said. "We're looking to run the ball and establish the ground game with him, and work in our passing attaek, and pretty mueh continue from where we left off last week." 
The Knights will be facing a Dillon team that, despite losing its first contest, still brings a very solid football team to the field. The Big Hed defense held the Stanford offense in check 
throughout the entire game  
before surrendering the final  
game-winning touchdown.  
"Dillon's a solid team, if we  
take them for granted, they'll  
beat us," Lyzinski said.  
"We'll be facing a tough Dillon  
defense and we'll have to pick  
up the intensity."  
The Big Red are coming off a  
tough loss to the Stanford  
Griffins in which their offense  
was able to march up and down  
the field throughout the game  
but was unable to convert any of  
their offensive production into  
points. Senior captain Homeo  
Acosta was quick to point out  
that his team has some issues  
that need to be addressed.  
"We're working on the same  
problem from last year, which is  
getting our offense moving,"  
Acosta said. "We're trying to  
implement a new offensive sys­ 
MATIHEW SMEDBERG/The Observer tem right now and we just need  
A Dillon wide receiver runs against Stanford on Sunday in ato keep working to get things  
season-opening loss. Dillon plays Keenan on Sunday.together."  
Keenan and Dillon each have  
a long way to go in the season  down until the second half of its  week," said McGettigan.  
and a win at this stage is of the  game with Keenan in which  Both teams are expected to  
utmost importance for both  Keenan dominated 14-0.  rely on their running game this  
teams. Romeo Acosta is confi­ The Kangaroos struggled to  weekend in the hope of jump­ 
dent that his team is ready to  contain Keenan's running game  starting their struggling offens­ 
face the defending champs.  behind tailback Alex Statlierei.  es.  
"They're probably the best  In Alumni's game, the Dawgs  "We know that Keough runs a  
team in the league and the team  were defeated 13-6 by the Angry  5-2, so we have been working a  
to beat, but we're definitely up  Mob of O'Neill. Alumni scored  lot on running against that type  
to the challenge," he said.  the first points of the game on a  of defense," said McGettigan.  
touchdown pass from Kerger  That strategy in mind, each  
Alumni vs. Keough  Truesbell to Hyan McGettigan,  team's success will likely be  
Sunday afternoon's game  but the offense was silent the  determined by the performance  
between Keough and Alumni  rest of the way, particularly with  of their running backs and  
will feature two teams still try­ the running game. On defense,  ofl'ensive lines.  
ing to work out early-season dif­ the Alumni seeondary struggled  The teams face ofT at 3 p.m. at  
ticulties.  allowing two touchdown passes  Riehle West.  
Both teams are coming off  to O'Neill's Alex Fortunado.  
loses in their first games, and  "We had some confusion on  
both teams struggled mightily to  assignments and exact responsi­ 
move the ball. In fact, Keough  bilities, so we have addressed  
was not able to make a first  these issues in practice this  

International Study Programs 152 Hurley Building T: 631-5882 


52694 State Road 933 1. South Bend. indiana 46637 I
• Spot-Free 
Just 2 miles north of Notre Dame on U.S. 31 j

Rinse Offer good at the South Bend location only ~
WASH 

~---------------~---------------· 
ELlA'S 
Mediterranean Cui5ine 
____......~L---4r~~~~-----------­
Open: Tues.-Sat. llam-2pm & 4pm-9pm (Sun. andMon. closed) Dine-In • Take-Out • Catering
-
------------~~~~-----------­
We offer: Shish Kebab, Shish Tawouk, Vegetarian and Meat Grape Leave Rolls, 
INNSBRUCK 
Information Meeting 
With Professor Gernot Gurtler, Director of the Innsbruck Program 
~onday,Sept.26,2005 
118 DEBARTOLO 7:00-8:30 pm 
Falafel, Hoummos, Tabouli, Meat Pie, Spinach Pie, Baklawa and many delicious dishes ... 
-
Applications Available www/nd.edu/.....,intlstud 
Our address: 115 Dixie Way North 
Questions?-Weber.l5@nd.edu Application Deadline: Nov. 15,2005
(574) 277-7239 South Bend, IN 46637 We are located in Roseland area, near Pendle Road on 3 I 

-------~---~---------­
Friday, September 23, 2005 The Observer + SPORTS page 21 
N D VOLLEYBALL 
Irish delve into Big East schedule 
Squad tries to bounce back from close defeat at LSU last Sunday 
By TOM DORWART 
Sports Wrirrr 
Tlw qunst to d111'nrHI llwir tille lwgins this w1wkend. Sunday at I p.m. the Irish (7­
11. thn dnfnrHiing Big East tour­narnnnt and rngular-snason l'hampions, takn on the Soton II a II I' iratn s ((,-61 in Notre Damn's first eonl'nn~nec match of tho s1mson. Sincn tlw l'iratns hav11 playml so many matches, Irish waeh Debbin Brown has prnparnd her team well but donsn't know exactly what to expect of her opponent. 
"We were able to see a little bit of what their system is !through tapel," she said. "We were comparing them with their season stats. They might have been playing people in dif­fnrnnt positions bncause they havn had lots of matches, so we don't know for sure what we're going to see. 
"But we have a pretty good idea." 
Notre Dame, coming off a live-game loss to LSU, is hoping to bounce back with a solid match. It will be important for the Irish to take the Pirates out of their comfort zone. They won't have played a match west of Pennsylvania yet this season, until tomorrow's match in Chicago against DePaul. 
Seton llall has played some tough eompntition, though, induding fourth-ranked Penn Statn (IJ-2). The Pirates gave 
Study in CHINA 
Information Sessions for 
8EIJINC 
and 
~HANCHAI 

5PM Tuesday, September 20  117 Hayes-Healy  
or  
5PM Monday, September 26  129 Hayes-Healy  

I Captain Lauren Brewster directs the Irish during Notre Dame's 3-2 victory over Arizona State Sept. 4. 
the Nittany Lions a run in a few games but were swept three games to none. 
Brown and the Irish arc excit­ed to get the conference season underway after a testing non­conference slate. 
"I think it's kind of like three different seasons -the non­conference, conference and hopefully the postseason," Brown said. "We think we've prepared ourselves really well for the conference." 
While Notre Dame has defeat­ed two top-1 0 teams and still ranks 11th in the polls, Brown is still a realist. When asked if she was pleased with the accomplishments thus far, she replied succinctly. 
"Yes and no," she said. "Obviously, we had some really, really good wins. We're not pleased with our loss, not to say we don't think we should ever lose, but we just felt we didn't play very well last weekend." 
She thought the team pre­pared well this week in prepa­ration for the conference sea­son. 
"I think this week ... just get back in the gym, picking it back up, I think the team has responded well," she said. 
The team clearly has used the first loss of the season as moti­vation. 
"Each day in practice it's been a little bit better and a lit­tle more competitive," Brown said. 
Contact Tom Dorwart at tdorwact@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN'S GOLF 

King flattered by IU tourney berth 
Tough Big Ten foes present challenges in dozen-temn field 
By CHRIS KHOREY 
Spores Writer 
Coming oil' a win at home in the Notre Dame Invitational. the Irish women's golf team will travel to Bloomington this weekend for the Lady Northern Invitational, hosted by Indiana University. 
Traditionally a Big Ten tour­nament, the Lady Northern will feature each team from that conference except Ohio State, plus Notre Dame and Illinois State. 

Irish coach Debby King said being invited to the Lady Northern is a compliment to teams from the Great Lakes Region. 
"We are very fortunate that in the last two 
years they've competes
"We're going into 
invited Notre each week." Dame to [the the tournament Junior Stacy 
tournamen tl." probably fifth. Brown was the 
King said. next best golfer
But it's close. " 
King said the in qualifying and top teams in the will compete as tournament are Debby King an individual in Michigan and Irish coach Bloomington. 
Michigan State, followed by Purdue and Northwestern. The Irish are ranked just behind the Wildcats. 
"We're going into the tourna­ment probably fifth," King said. "But it's close. It's anyone's game. It's a matter of will." 
Notre Dame was relatively successful against the Big Ten last year, going 28-20-1. Indiana and Illinois competed in the Notre Dame lnviational two weeks ago. 
The Illini finished seventh, while the Hoosiers finished 1Oth. Indiana, however, fea­tures senior Shannon Johnson, who tied for first on the indi­vidual scorecard. 
R66
¥t" I l 
A D f 


Beaut:itul acoust:ic guit:ars_ Pick one up. "W"VV"W". R.GGmusic.corn 

Proprietors WJrren & Linda 

-
?irs/ Onyinaf71zza in 7oron I Since 1951 
Specializing in 1tali.1n Entrees 

Tues.• Thur~.: 5:00 PM • 1 1:00 PM 
Fri.· ~at.: 5:00 PM· 1:00AM 537 North St Louis • South Bend, IN 574-233-24(,4 
The Irish last played in Bloomington last spring at tlw Indiana Invitational. Notn~ Danw won the IWI~nt as tlwn­sophomll!"e Noriko Nagazaki earned lwr first earner colln­giatn individual victory. 
Nagazaki will load thn Irish into competition again this wonknnd. 
Two wonks ago shn paced Notrn I>arne with a scorn of 223, whieh tied her with Johnson for first and narrwd her an exemption into the Lady Northnrn. 
Five other golfers -Laura Maunu, Katie Brophy, Lauren Gnbauer, Jane Lee and Suzie !!ayes-earned their way onto Notrn Damn's eompnting tmun this week through a series of qualifinrs. The top four finish­ers will have their score count toward their team's total. 
"With 10 players on the team, usually you ean only take five or six to a tournament," King said. "You havn qualifiers 
and that deeidns 
who 
Nagazaki 
earned her exemption for this week by fin­ishing in the top six of the Notre Dame lnvitaional. Dun to stiffer competition, the exemp­tion range will be larger for the Lady Northern. 
"The exemption status for this tournament, because it's a tougher field, is easier," King said. "Last week it was the top six, this week it's the top !twelve golfers)." 
Last year's Lady Northern was held in Ann Arbor, Mich. The Irish finished tied for eighth in that tournament. 
Contact Chris Khorey at ckhorey@nd.edu 

page 22 Friday, September 23, 2005 
_ The Observer + SPORTS 
court. lost two consecutive points and game. They would not relinquish last snason, the lkllcs did not win "At one point Shelly said trailed for the remainder of the the lead until the Belles tied the a single game. 
Victory 

'Nothing is coming over this net.' first game. game at 26. Manchester would Schroeder-Hick said that Alma It's amazing what happens when Saint Mary's used a 10-4 run to not lead the rest of the night. lost several key contributors !"rom
continued from page 24 one person steps up like that, the take a 14-10 lead in game two. Saint Mary's is playing some of last year, but also added that they 22-30, 30-21. 28-30, 30-26. 15-11. whole team responds," Schroeder­Manchester would not relent, its best volleyball of the season. arc still a strong team. Nma is just The win marked the Belles' Biek said. however, forcing the Belles to Th.!l Belles are playing with confi­2-12 this season but 2-1 in thA third win in a row with all match­The win was hard-fought for come up with precisely placed kills dence and energy that had been Mli\A. es going live games. It was the Saint Mary's. Manchester, despite to win points. The Belles played absent earlier in the campaign. They have lost to several nation­
Belles' seventh win of the year, its 2-10 record. played a very solid some of their most The Belles will ally ranked teams. surpassing their total from all of match, especially on the defensive aggressive volleyball need to be in top Calvin was undeli~ated in eonfi~r­last season. end. The Spartans dove to the late in the second form this weekend cncc last year. but sufl'ercd a loss
"It's anyone's
Saint Mary's (7 -7, 1-2) used !loor countless times, foiling cer­game, scoring the as the MIAA's top to !lope earlier this season. Their
conference
scrappy defense and timely hitting tain Belle kills. Schroeder-Biek last five points to two teams from record stands at <J-4. 2-1 in con­to put together the decisive run. credited her hitters for staying level the match. right now." last season. Calvin fimmcc. Ubero Anne Cusack had two spec­aggressive despite the Manchester Game three was and Alma will visit Sehroeder-Biek li~lt them ww.; no tacular digs during a lengthy point defense. the closest of the the Angela Athletic clear cut l"avorite in the conl"crm'lce
Julie Schroeder-Biek 
that tied the fourth game at 26. "Manchester always has a match, with no team Center Saturday. and that the Bnlles could establish 
Belles coach
Belles Coach Julie Schroeder-Biek scrappy team," she said. "We gaining a lead of The Belles are themselves at the top . identilied this point as critical to talked about that coming in ... We more than three eager to face ·their "It's up for grabs. It's anyorw's the Belles' turnaround. needed to have the persistence points. Manchester biggest test of the conference right now," she said. 
"Anne's digs sparked our team," and drive to continue hitting. led 23-20 late but proceeded to season thus far. The most important thing !"or she said. "We needed that spark. Tonight we did that and we kept miss three of their next five serves "In the huddle after the game Schrocder-Biek was that her team The whole team rallied after that." the ball alive long enough for our into the net, allowing the Belles to the girls were already talking was playing with energy and con­
Saint Mary's also played tough hitters to find holes." get back into the game. But the about this weekend. They said lidence heading into the crucial 
defense at the net. Shelly Bender The Belles started the match Spartans did not break. combining they were ready," coach weekend. anchored the defense in the mid­slowly, losing the first five points. A their tough defense with solid Schroeder-Hick said. "So many people stepped up dle and came up with timely seesaw frrst game saw Manchester passing to produce an efficient The Belles will have to turn tonight," she said. blocks throughout the match. come up with several kills that put offense and take game three. around recent history if they hope Schroedcr-Biek acknowledged the Belles on their heels. After The Spartans engineered a 10-0 to win Saturday. In iive matches Contact Ryan Kiefer at Bender's vocal leadership on the tying the game at 12, Saint Mary's run to build a 12-6 in the fourth combined against Calvin and Nma rkiefer@nd.edu 
Rebound 
continued from page 24 
The Irish will look to continue their strong play through the offensive power of Katie Thorlakson and Kerri Hanks. Hanks leads the Irish with 13 goals this season, and Thorlakson was named Big East player of the week for the fifth time in her colle­giate career. 
Christie Shaner was named to the Soccer America National Team of the Week after her defensive performance against DePaul and Michigan, becoming the fourth Irish player to receive that award this season. 
The Irish are scoring 5.13 goals per game, and giving up 0.63 goals per game. They are also get­ting 21.4 shots per game, while giving up just 3.8. They are also 4­0 at home. 
Cincinnati has struggled so far this season, compiling a 2-4-2 overall record, 0-1-0 in conference play. Its conference loss came against the same Louisville team that Notre Dame will visit Sunday. 
Shaner spoke about the team's preparation the day before games, noting that their practices usually consist of going over how teams attack and defend. 
"One way to have an advantage 

-~ 
on a team is knowing what they are going to try to do in a game in order to take advantage," Shaner said. 
Despite being a new addition to the Big East, the Bearcats have a history with the Irish dating back to 2001. 
In the second round of the 2001 
NCAA tournament, the visiting 
Cincinnati upset a heavily-favored 
Golf 
continued from page 24 
includes Alabama, Tennessee, Florida, SMU and Georgia State. 
"Alabama and Florida would be the two teams. as well as SMU, that would be the most tal­ented teams," !shan said. 
"But I don't think we really approach it as watching out for the teams, we're just gonna down there and play our best." 
Notre Dame's success will rest on how well the Irish putt this weekend, and how smart they play when it comes to attacking 

-
holes. 
"Obviously an adjustment to the green becomes more crucial with the trickiness of the greens," !shan said. "You have to Notre Dame squad. 


Candace Chapman was the only Irish player around at that time, but did not play in that game due to illness. 
The loss was uncharacteristic for the Irish, as they are 56-3-2 against opponents not ranked in the top 25, and 35-3-0 in post-sea­son play. 
Besides Chapman, current Irish players were not around at the time and it is not something on their minds heading into Friday's game. 
"We just kind of take one game at a time, and sort of concentrate on playing that day or night," Shaner said. '!hat kind of stuff is not really in the back of our mind." 
Louisville is 6-2-0 on the season, and 1-0-0 in the Big East. Their 
focus on being attentive to that. Essentially it's just finding the best way to know when to attack a certain hole and when to lay oll'." 
The Irish anticipated a better finish in their lirst tournament of the season when they traveled to Minnesota for the Gopher Invitational, but difficulty adjust­ing on the first day made it diffi­cult for the Irish to recover in the second and third rounds. 
This week, that should not be a problem. !shan attributed the adjustment to several factors, all or which were out of the team's control. 
The practice round was not productive because of the team's delayed flight, the absence of a putting green and the fatigue that comes along with a three­hour sleep. It was also the team's 

losses came against UAB and Xavier. 
Given Notre Dame's success so far this season, the Irish expect to get two wins this weekend. With that said, Shaner explained the difficultly in mentally preparing for thesA types of games. 
"Sometimes it is harder to get up for those games because we know that we should come out with a win," Shaner said. "But we have to take the mindset that it is going to be like a Santa Clara or Virginia because when we play big, big teams that are ranked top in the country ... our team knows how to mentally prepare ourselves." 
Notre Dame will host Cincinnati at 5 p.m. today. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
first round of the season. 

"I think it will be a lot better this time," !shan said. "I don't think we should anticipate a problem like that again. 
"No matter what happens trav­el wise, we will have plenty of time to prepare." 
Despite lsban's lirst-round 80 in Minnesota, he is confident heading into this tournament, excited that he has been hitting the ball well and knowing what he needs to do to keep his scores low. 
"For myself, I'm hitting the ball pretty well and have no reason why I shouldn't expect to com­pete for the win as long as we get a good practice round in and get well adjusted," !shan said. 
Contact Bobby Griffin at rgriffi3@nd.edu 
Opener 
continued from page 24 

still prepared for challenges. 
"Its always nice to play at home," he said. "The field is still the same size and you're still playing against the same guys." 
The Irish will face Lousiville on Friday at 7:30 p.m. imme­diately following a women's matchup against the Cardinals. 
The Cardinals are currently lifth in the Big East and com­ing off an upset victory against Big East foe No. 5/1 Connecticut. 
On Sunday, the Irish will face Cinncinati -who also upset top-ranked Connecticut last weekend in a 2-0 victory before tying Providence, 1-1. 
"Both of these teams come off very good weekend," Clark said. "Both teams beat the No. 1 team in the country last weekend, so they're feeling pretty good about themselves coming in here this weekend." 
Cincinnati is leading the Red Division of the Big East. 
The Irish (4-20, 1-1 Big East) have worked to come together as a team, with Chris Cahill a pleasant surprise in goal and the midlielders scor­ing crucial goals. A week of recovering and practice should have thn Irish back on track. 
"It's important to do well in practice but it's even more important to do well in games," Clark said. "I think the team is coming togctlwr." 
One highlight for the Irish has been the emergence of senior tri-captain .John Stephens in the midfield. Arter notching only two points all last season. he has already recorded a goal and an assist. Stephens' assist went to for­ward Justin McGecnev, who scored his first goal of the sea­son against Syracure after leading the Irish in points last year. 
On defense, junior Hyan Miller has been crucial for Cahill. Miller was named to the Top Drawer Soccer Team of the Week last week. 
The home crowd should be treated to some good soccer this weekend, as the Irish realize that these games arc crucial to goals of winning the Big East regular season crown for the second year in a row. 
"This is a very, very big weekend for us because this gives us the opportunity to get us a little bit ahead," Clark said. 
Contact Kate Gales at kgales@nd.edu 

Lafayette Square Town homes 
4 and 5 bedrooms on 3 levels of living all including: 
• Dishwashers 
• Washers and Dryers 
• ADT Security Systems 
*NEW MANAGEMENT SPECIAL)~ 
Only $210 Per Person For the first 10 Apartments Leased for the 06-07 School Year 
574-233-5704 or Nicole_Soko@hotmail.com 
L______________________________________________ 

Friday, September 23, 2005 The Observer+ TODAY page 23 

JOCKULAR 
CROISSANTWORLD 
HEU..O, I-IE-UQ/ 

o"' M~. 

NILE OF you 
WHrre.' ''"" !O C.OME' 
~0 OlA P 'fOU 
COu L.f) <.C ME. 1 I \NASH 'T fXf'f'lllN Ll 
'11-\ IS' 

f:NJ01 TI-lE. .PAR1'i 1 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 Bibliophile's pursuit
Superior, after 1 Harbor town in 
ua" 
41 Settler of many Oregon an argument
16 Confide in 
2Lift 17 Decorative 
42 With 40-Down, 

3 Time window
big name in

plants for a veto
Massachusetts

18 Sorry 4 Santa 43 metal
19 Lighter fuels winds
(plating alloy) 20 Convened 
5 Turkey 
44 "Her~" ("Miss21 Hiring no-no Saigon" song) 
6 Ahead, barely 23 Eucharist plate 
45 Cut off 

7 Flute's finger 24 Nike rival 
holes 25 Up to now 
47 First home 

48 Waiting time at 8 Probate court 27 Some the motor concerns dishwashers, vehicle bureau, 
9 Macbeth andfor short seemingly 
Macduff 28 Place for a bow, 49 Unwelcome 
10 Lover of maybe greeting? 
Paris 29 Those in favor 51 Bonding 
11 Vittles 
31 Setting for "Der candidate Rosenkavalier" 
12 School days 
52 Rams' gate? 

initials32 Horned 55 "Proceed!" 
goddess 13 Annual, as 
56 An envisioned Mediterranean33 Long 




America,  winds  34 Laced  38 Minister-in­ 49  Ration  
34 Lug moneywise ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE ~:::+-:+.:-~  14 Enter quietly 15 Taqueria offering 22 City on the  waterproof boot 35 Popular Toyota  training 39 Baseball-like game 40 See 42-Across  (dog food brand) 50 _II (razor brand)  
=+=+.,-,+,-+-::+=+=-f  Guadalquivir 24 Handout: Var. 26 "We're off  36 Seatback items 37 Gets back to  42 Argument 45 Worsted variety  53 "Uh-huh" 54 Yellowfin  
the Wizard-" ­ business  46 Bonkers  tuna  
28 Psychologist  

who gave his For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.20 a minute; or, with a name to a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. test Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday :-::+.,±::+.::+=+=+.::-! 30 Not stiff? crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000
-7+-::+=++.:-t 31 Man of ancient 
past puzzles, nytlmes.com/crosswords ($34.95 a year).

Rome 
Share tips: nytimes.com/puzzleforum. Crosswords for young -.__.___.._'--'-_. 33 Bosses solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispepsible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
.DAN<f: '? ME7 01-1 NO, I 
c.o u \...J)N Tt ""E:.-\..L. . 
tF '(OU \NS\ST! 
H'OLI) M'j 
D~IN~ MON~~ 
DOWN 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 

D Enclosed is $100 for one academic year D Enclosed is $55 for one semester Name _________________________ 
Address~-----------------------------------­
City _________ State ____ Zip_______ ­
HENRI ARNOLD
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Henri Arnold and Mike Arglrlon 
Unscramble these four Jumbles, one 
letter to each square, 
to form four ordiriary words . 
HARAJ 

[ J I [] 
<02005 Tribune Media Services. Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
KNOTE 

[ J I lu 

WHEN THE FAMED COMPOSER. WR.OTE A NEW SC.OR.E, 
tWELLOY 
IT WAS--­
J I I 

www.jumble.com 
Now arrange the circled letters to form the surprise answer, as suggested by the above cartoon. 
k&ff: 


"[ I I I I I I I I I J" 
(Answers to.morrow) I Jumbles: AGENT PRIOR TOTTER NIBBLE Yesterday's Answer: The estimate for braces left her with ­TOO BIG A "BITE" 
EUGENIA LAST
HOROSCOPE 

CELEBRITIES BOI~N ON TIUS llA Y: Tom Felton, 18; Scott Baio, 44; .loan Jctt, 47; Nick Cave, 48 
Happy Birthday: Everything has probably been a little overwhelming, but with a little discipline, you can make headway from this point on. You have some very unusual opportunities coming your way, and you don't want to miss out because you haven't finished past projects. You will discover a niche you never knew you had. Your numbers arc 3, 12, 21, 24, 27,38 
ARIES (March 21-Aprill9): Don't take a break--there is too much at stake and too much to be accomplished. Your hard work and dedication will pay ofT. Travel if it will help you pull a deal together. ••• TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Pull out all the stops and do your best to surprise everyone with your thoughtfulness and ability to get things done. Pick a quiet but appropriate place for meetings. You will not impress everyone. ••• GEMINI (May 21-.Junc 20): You have to be feeling restless and in need of a change . .lump to it and get yourself moving. This is not the kind of day you want to waste sitting around accomplishing little. Get rid of dead weight and worn­out ideas. ••• CANCER (June 21-,July 22): Don't promise the world. Instead, offer what's reasonable. By doing things yourself, you will gain the respect of your peers. Hard work and a little Cancer charm will work wonders for you. •••• LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Don't let the uncertainty about your work and your position get to you. Chances are you don't understand the whole dynamics of what your industry is currently lacing. Don't make a decision based on hearsay. • • VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): You may be feeling a~ ifyou need a change. Starting over may feel daunting at first, but ultimately you will feel good about the upcoming changes. Meeting and interacting with people who have a different perspective on life will open your eyes to all sorts of possibilities. ••••• LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Think big and prepare to take on projects no one else will tackle. You can make gains that tar exceed your wildest dreams. A chance to do it all is in your grasp; don't watlle now that you arc so close. •• • SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Chances are good that what you expect will not come through today. Don't be surprised by delays or people who appear to be confused and uncertain. Pick up the slack and focus on your creative endeavors. ••• SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): Your attention should be on clearing up business matters that have been going on too long. A new job may be what's required to help you get out of a rut. Change may be unnerving at first, but it will be good lor you in the end. • •• CAPRICORN (Ilcc. 22-Jan. 19): You will move three steps I(Jrward and two steps back today. All your hard work will stop you from losing ground. Small steps and keeping things reasonable and in perspective will be your best bel. ••••• AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Fcb. 18): You may know in your heart what you want, but somed1ing or someone will make it ditlicult for you to gel. Don't be disheartened by what others do. Don't question your choices --just do what you have to do. •• PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take action. Travel to a destination that will allow you to 1inish what you started. This is the time to stan something new. Take advantage of the romantic opportunities that arc present. •••• 
Birthday Baby: You are powerful, energetic and very popular. You have a great deal of compassion and humanitarian qualities that make you easy to approach. You are intelligent and intuitive. 
Eugenia's Web sites: astroadvice.comfilr fim, eugenialast.com.fhr con.lidential consultations 
The Observer 
P.O. Box 779 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 

------. 
THE OBSERVER 

PORTS
Friday, September 23, 2005 
page 24 
--,---­

FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Three recruits join top-notch class for Weis 
of safeties: Leonard Gordon and said. "He's a really explosive Irish. · returned three punts and two By MIKE GILLOON Jashaad Gaines, who committed kid." "He's very fast and very physi­kickoffs for touchdowns as a Sports Ediwr to Notre Dame on Sept. 17 and Gordon hails from Fort cal," Frank said. "He plays full­senior for his high school this 
Sept. 20 respectively. Campbell High School in throttle all the time." season. As a junior, he made 
Notre Dame coach Charlie West committed to Notre Kentucky and could also play Gaines, from Las Vegas High nine interceptions and tallied Weis received three more verbal Dame Thursday and, according cornerback in addition to his School in Nev. is listed at 6-foot, 900 yards receiving. commitments this week, upping to Mike Frank of Irisheyes.com, regular safety. 205 pounds and ran a 4.67 40-Gordon chose the Irish over the number of Irish recruits in could play either cornerback, "He's a really physical kid, a yard-dash this summer at the Vanderbilt and Kentucky after the class of 2006 to 16. wide receiver or kick returner big kid for a safety," Frank said. Nike recruiting combine. making 128 tackles his junior 
The most recent commit of the for the Irish. Frank was also impressed West is the smallest physically season. group is George West out of "West is really one of my with Gaines, a safety who he of the trio at 5-foot-8 and 165 Northeast Academy in Oklahoma favorite players in Notre Dame's said could fit nicely at the pounds: However, he runs a 4.65 Contact Mike Gilloon at City, Okla. He is joined by a pair entire class this year," Frank apache backer position for the 40-yard-dash and has already mgilloon@nd.edu 

MEN'S GOLF 
Alabama awaits Irish for Shoal Creek play 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 
After a fifth-place finish in the Gopher Invitational, the Irish will travel to Birmingham, Ala. today to participate in the Shoal Creek Intercollegiate, an event that will be played on Sunday and Monday. 
Seniors Scott Gustafson, Mark Baldwin and Eric Deutsch, junior Cole Isban, and sophomore Greg Rodgers will make the trip this weekend for the Irish. 
"I haven't actually been [to Shoal Creek]," Isban said. "But it's hosted a PGA championship, and it's supposed to be a phe­nomenal place. It's supposed to be pretty tough so it should be a great test. 
"No matter if the course makes the scores higher or not you defi­nitely just want to play great courses, and this is defmitely one of them." 
Notre Dame will be competing against an impressive field that 
see GOLF/page 22 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles take five-game win 
By RYAN KIEFER 
Sports Writer 
Scoring 15 points in a row is impressive in basketball. In volleyball it's almost unheard of. 
But not for Saint Mary's. 
Down two games to one to Manchester College and trailing 26-21 in the fourth game, the Belles stormed back with a 15­0 run, taking game four and jumping out to a 6-0 lead in game five. 

The Belles hung on to win the fifth game and take the match, KATE 
see BELLES/page 22 

ND SOCCER 
Home conference play begins tonight for men 
By KATE GALES Associate Sports Editor 
After playing two tough teams on the road. the Irish return to face new Big East competitors Cinncinati and Louisville this weekend. 
The team finished 1-1 in its road trip last weekend, which also featured a cancelled flight. 
"We had a pretty long week­end," coach Bobby Clark said. "[We had] quite difficult travel last weekend. with two can­celed flights, so we didn't actu­ally get back until Monday." 
Although returning to a friendly home crowd is a plus for the No. 18 Irish. Clark is 
see OPENER/page 22 

Cardinal directions 

Women can rebound from first loss ofyear 
By BOBBY GRIFFIN Associate Sports Editor 

After defeating DePaul last weekend, the No. 5 Irish are now entering the thick of the Big East season -and they will take on two new faces this weekend when they host Cincinnati Friday and travel to Louisville Sunday. 
With the new configuration of the Big East conference, the Irish will have many new opponents this year, including the Bearcats and Cardinals. 
Notre Dame (7-1-0) has stRam­rolled its opponents for the most part this season, with the one exception its road loss against Santa Clara. 
see REBOUND/page 22 
The Belles' front line sets up against Kalamazoo on Sept. 20. Saint Mary's defeated Manchester Thursday. 

MlB-Al
Nil \fOi.lEYBAll 
MEN'S INTERHAU 

WOMEN'S IITERHAll 
MlB-NL

ND SOFTBAll 
LLI 

u Notre Dame vs. 
Morrissey vs. 

Irish host two Lewis vs. Lyons Philadelghia 4 
1--z Seton Hall O'Neill exhibition games 
Atlanta Sunday, 1 p.m. 
The Orioles said that
Sunday, 1 p.m. 

After starting 0-2,
Rafael Palmeiro might 

Although the season The Phillies keep their 
-c::ss Lewis looks for a win
not return for the rest of 

The Irish open their The Manorites start 
doesn't start until 
hopes for the Wild Card against the Lions. 
=: Cl: 
the season. 

Big East conference play their season against the 
spring, the Irish piay 
and NL East titles alive at home on Sunday. 
Angry Mob. 

this weekend. 
with a shutout win. 

page 14
en 
page 21 page 20 page 18
page 19 

page 17 
''' , . 

• ' 't . 
page 2 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER Friday, September 23, 2005 
Remembering, then moving on 
Just a year ago, Notre involves you in practice, tain. Football factories don't "Washington, since 1981, Dame fans were chanting teaches you life lessons, hire people like Tyrone [is] 4 7-7 at home versus his name: "Ty! Ty! Ty!" begins his tenure with eight Willingham and Charlie non-PAC 10 teams," he said. 
They meant their words in straight wins and after Weis. They hire people Weis was acknowledging earnest. They were support­three seasons ... he's gone. regardless of character or that Willingham means ing their Understandably, any ath­history, as long as they win. something to the Irish play­h e a d 
Jete with a heart in addition When Willingham was ers but was saying, in his coach, to 4.3, 40-yard-dash speed hired at Notre own, indirect the man would be at least affected by Dame on Jan. manner, 'Let's
Willingham gave 
w h () such a decision. 1, 2002, then­move·on.' e v e r y Last season, some Irish University everything he had That's his way. player on players displayed shock, dis­President Weis is all busi­
while at Notre 
the roster appointment and confusion. Father Edward ness when it
Dame, as a
answered But there was a time for "Monk" Malloy comes to foot­to. those feelings to show them­cautioned all person and a ball, which is A n d selves. who were lis­how it should
Pat Leonard coach. 
t h i s And even though players tening. be. Saturday, like Darius Walker say "This is a Willingham
Managing

Irish fans Willingham taught them very difficult job, maybe one gave everything he had
Editor

and some of their most impor­of the most difficult jobs in while at Notre Dame, as a players, tant lessons -in football the sporting area," Malloy person and a coach. too, perhaps -will do a and in life -Walker and the said, "and yet there's a lot Everyone associated with double-take when they see rest of the Irish know what of rewards that go along the program and the Tyrone Willingham wearing they have to do Saturday on with it, as well." University respects him for a purple polo shirt. There's the field. That is why Willingham is that. nothing wrong with feeling Perhaps strong safety Tom no longer head coach of But for every football something -a slight memo­Zbikowski, a Notre Dame: not Saturday as far as the Irish ry-jog of what was. Willingham because of dis­eye can see -and the Irish 
Sure, the game itself is recruit, himself, Weis is all criminatory hir­ear can hear -chants of about football, and only said it best ing practices or "Weis! Weis! Weis!" will ring
business when it

football. Wednesday because he isn't from Notre Dame Stadium. 
comes to football,

But the event, the meeting when asked a good person. That's how Notre Dame of Willingham and the play­about the dis­which is how it It is bBcause does it. Will.ingham got his ers he recruited for the tractions of fac­being head chants, and now, Weis does,
should be. 

Irish, is much more. ing his old coach ·of Notre too, because they are both 
Imagine this scenario: you tutor. Dame is a diffi­men who epitomize what are a standout high school ''I'm lining up cult task. Notre Dame is about, one player being recruited by 40 against their receivers," he And that is why Charlie not more so than the other. to 50 schools, maybe more. said, "not their coaches." Weis, in this week's Tuesday A coach from your dream Critics hear comments like press conference, began by The opinions expressed in school calls, talks to your that and throw up red flags. immediately broaching the this column are those of the parents, visits your house, 'Notre Dame is a football subject of Willingham and author and not necessarily offers you a scholarship, factory,' they say. 'All they giving it due credit and those of The Observer. brings you to campus, intro­care about now is winning.' respect. Contact Pat Leonard at duces you to the team, Well, one thing is for cer-Then his tone changed. pleonard@nd. edu 
gaine hype 

"Our coaching staffand our team [have] the utmost respect for Coach Willingham."
CharlieWeis Irish head coach 

"When it comes down to it, we're just playing football, and that's what we're going out 

Brady Quinn
there to do. " 

Irish quarterback 

"We're going into it focused on starting fast and getting into it a lot quicker than we did 
Chinedum Ndukwe 

last week." 
Irish safety 
"I think the emotions for those games 
are extremely high and will be extremely 


Tyrone Willingham 
high for this 

, Huskies 
one. 

head coach 
#I lfs•EII's Sst:t:EB 
#If fiiiLLEYBitl.l 
fRIDAY, SEPT. 23 SuNDAY, SEPT. 25 VS. CINCINNATI vs. SnoN HAll Ma~no 5:00 @ AlUMNI fiELD 1:00 @JOYCE ARENA 
~Inc. 

fiRST 500 fANS WILL RECEIVE A fiRST 200 fANS Will RECIEVE A SoccER ScHEDULE SHIRT VolLEYBAll ScHEDUlE SHIRT ISP&ml 
FREE ADMISSION 

EVENTS FOR NO, SMC, AID HCC STUDENTS 
# 11 .EI'IIIt:CEI 
fRIDAY, 


vs. 1:30@ ALIIII fiElD fiRST 500 fAN ;aNs Will RECIEVE E!E

a SOCCER CER SHoE Baa ~QH·~­


Friday, September 23, 2005 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Tw-o-sport star 
Jeff Samardzija excels in the end zone and on the pitcher's moundfor Notre Dame 
By HEATHER 
VAN HOEGARDEN 
Sports Wrircr 
.l•~rr Samardzija was just wait­in){ f'or an opportunity. The opportunity to eateh a pass in the end zone. Tlw opportunity to play two sports in colle){e: And now that he's finally 
•~au){ht not just one, but five touchdown passes, after not finding llw end zone for two years, and now that he is a key nw mlw r of' the Notre Damn baseball team as well, he's just lookin){ f'or morn opportunities. 
"If they wnre ){oing to throw llw hall my way f'ivn times in the nrHI zorw II would have nxpe,~ted to have l'ivn touch­down receptions!." the junior wide receiver said. "You've got to think you'n~ ){oing to make those five catdws. It's just a mati.Pr of personnel ami being in tlw right plan~ at tlw right tim n, and t lw n j us t taking advantagp or tlw opportunity." 
A slow start In the fall 
Samardzija canw into Notre Damn as a highly l.outml reeruit from nearby Valparaiso High School al'tN excelling in foot­ball, basketball and bas•~ball. Samardzija never missml a start in his f'our years. 
lin was an all-state eentnr­lieldnr in basdHtll, lw finished second in tho voting for Mr. Football in Indiana and hn was named the top reeeiver in the state of Indiana. 
llowever, his freshman year at Notrn Damn, he was hidden behind then-sophomores Hhmna MeKnight and Mauriee Stovall as wnll as then-senior 0 mar .I en kins. Samardzija played in all 12 games but caught just seven passes for 53 yards. 
Last year, although he enwrgml as quarterback Brady ()uinn's go-to receiver on many third down mnversions, lw was still a quiet play.-r for the Irish, eatehing 17 passes for 274 yards on tlw s1mson, hut still no tmwhdowns. 
"If' you're a rPceiver, just throwin){ llw ball your way lis what lwlps you succemll," the (1-l'oot-5, 21 f1-poundnr said. "I ){unss that's all it eonws down to is ){nttirrg t.lt!' opportunity to make plays, and wlwn you do gf't thosP opportunities, just to ronw throu){h and make the plays to ke.-p that r.onl'idence going within l.lu• llmm." 
But lw didn't havn that oppor­tunity -that is, until this sna­son. 
This ynar Samardzija has caught I 3 passes in just three gamns, including l'ivn touch­downs, thwn against Michigan Stall\ and at lf~ast onn in evnry ganw, tying a sdwol rncord. 
Irish roach Charlie Weis attrihutns thnsn mrmbors to not only throwing the ball more, but Samardzija's skills as well. 
"You would oxpoct receivors to have hi){ mrrnlwrs when you throw it 60 limns," Wois said. "I think that .lnl'f"s a vory dnpnnd­ahlo. rPiiabln rncnivnr with groat hands and good ball skills. lin's bnnn tho rneipient of lwing opnn. W11 don't ever dnsign plays just to go to a guy. Wn try to throw it to the guy that's open basnd off of eover­agn and progrnssion. lie's been tlw rncipient of lwing in the right place at the right time." 
Stovall wasn't surprised to see his eountnrpart put up big num­bers thus far this season. 
"It doesn't surprisn me at all," Stovall said. "I know the ability that JniT has. Tho things that you sen in the game arc the things he dons in practice, so it wasn't a surprise to us at all." 
Samardzija says he's just get-. ling more opportunities to have the ball than he was in the past -there's nothing more to it. 
"I don't think there's too mueh or a difference," Samardzija said of this year and previous years. "It's just getting the opportunity to [make a play I. If you're in tho right area and the ball's eoming your way -I think last year there were a couple chancns I may have let slip away and I didn't make the plays, and I think this year maybe I made a play or two early that gave the 1:oaehes con­fidence to put me out there in dill'erent situations." 
The "other" sport 
When Irish basnball coach Paul Mainieri read an article that said nnw Notre Dame foot­ball recruit JolT Samardzija wanted to play eollege baseball if he could, he immediately talked to then-coach Tyrone Willingham, and he said it was alright to look into the possibili­ty of him playing baseball as well. 
"So I started asking some pro­fessional scouts about him, and they said they'd seen him play, and he's not bad," Mainieri said. 
So Mainieri sent his pitching coach at the time to watch Samardzija. And after scouting him, Mainieri called him to ask him if he wanted to play base­ball for the Irish. 
And with Willingham's bless­ing, Samardzija became a two­sport athlete. Mainieri said now he and Weis have also eome to an agreement to lnt the pitch­nr/wide recniver play both sports. 
"Charlin's been great as far as supporting .JniT," Mainieri said of Weis, who he said attended one or two of the games in whieh Samardzija pitched. 
As far as Samardzija, he is just glad he got the opportunity to play both college baseball and football. 
"I~. ki.nd ol' ju~~ wor~ed .~l~l for me, SamardziJa saul. 1 here were some places who said I could do both, and there were 
other places that said I couldn't, so that had a little bit to do with lwhat school I went tol, but it's 
kind of nice that it just worked out." 
And so Samardzija has become a force on the diamond as well. As a freshman, he earned freshman All-American honors al'ter posting a 2.95 EHA, the second-bnst among Big East pitchers. Last spring, Samardzija posted a 3.89 EHA with a record of 8-1 in 15 appearances and ten starts. 
"One of Jel'l"s most successful traits is that he's a eompntitor," said Irish assistant Terry Hooney, who works with pitch­ers. "lie's a competitor both on and ofT the field. I think that's what makes him so successful in both baseball and football. He knows how to competn, he loves to compete, and he plays both sports with a tremendous amount of confidence." 
But it goes beyond just base­ball and football. Both Maineiri and Rooney emphasized Samardzija's importance as a person to Notrn Dame. 
"Jeff Samardzija is one of those guys you don't see very often," Maineiri said. "He has such a competitive side to him, I don't care what sport he's play­ing or what he's involved in, he wants to win so badly." 
Hooney echoed Maineiri's comments. 
''lie's an extremely likable, coachable young man," Hooney said. "He's someone that all of us here in the baseball program have grown extremely fond of." 
And both coaches said they think Samardzija could play baseball at the next level. 
"I think he's got potential," Mainieri said. "There's no ques-lion in my mind when he's out on the mound that he looks like a Major League pitcher." 


Balancing act 
Although these two sports keep Samardzija plenty busy, he has not had to miss a spring football practice due to his baseball commitment. His days, however, are scheduled to the fullest, balaneing sports as well as a marketing major. 
"1 think balancing, it just comes down to time manage­ment," he said. "I think my schedule's pretty much down to the half hour. A lot of it comes down to just before it happens, be ready to go to whatever that day's calling for." 
Hooney said he is impressed with the way Samardzija is able to balance all of his commit­ments. 
"It's a real credit to JnlT for the self diseiplirw and tlw time management skills that he has," Hooney said. "Obviously he has a challenging schnduln for both sports, but it's a crmlit to .Jel'f' and the way he goes about his business. lie's a vnry deter­mined guy. lie has a very struc­tured routine that h!~ dons everyday." 
But even with all the sdwdul­ing, Samardzija sometimes finds that 24 hours is not enough to fit everything in a day. 
"Sometimes there's not enough time in tlw day to do everything you want," hn said. "Just getting it all in is pretty tough sometimes." 
And what's his best sport'? "Whatevnr he's playing," Mainieri said. 
Contact Heather Van Hoegarden at hvanhoeg@nd.edu 

by the nun1bers 
Number of Notre Dame victories in the lour 
4 

all-time matchups between the Irish and the Huskies. 
487 
Passing yards Irish quarterback Brady Quinn threw lor last week, the second-highest total in program history. 
The margin of victory in Notre Dame's 38-3 win over Washington last season. 
35 

4 7 
Washington wins in 54 games against non-PAC 10 teams at home since 1981. 
The number of points Washington allowed in the 
5 6 

second game of the season against California, the most by an opponent at Husky Stadium. 
3 2 0 
Rushing yards by running back Darius Walker in his first three games this season, good lor No. 17 nationally. 
The last time a Notre Dame coach 
198 6 

lost his home opener, when Lou Holtz fell to Michigan, 24-23. 
CLAIRE KELLEY!The Observe' Losses by the Willingham-coached Irish in Notre Dame receiver Jeff Samardzija, center, is grabbed by Michigan State safety 29 games alter an 8-0 start in 2002.
16

Eric Smith, left, and linebacker David Herron Jr. in the Spartans' upset victory. 
.... . 
page 4 Friday, September 23, 2005 
The Observer+ SPORTS 

Notre Dame 
HEAD
Fighting Irish 

Record: 2-1 AP: 16 

Coaches: 18 Notre Dame Fighting Irish 

Charlie Weis first season at 
NOTRE DAME 

Notre Dame 
2005 Schedule 

career record: 
at Pittsburgh-W at Michigan -W MICHIGAN ST. -L at Washington atPurdue 
usc 
BYU TENNESSEE 
NAVY SYRACUSE at Stanford 


2-1 
at Notre Dame: 
2-1 
against
CharlieWeis 

Washington: 0-0
head coach 
Roster 

No. Name Pos. Ht. Wt. YR 1 D.j. Hurd WR 6-1 198 FR 3 Darius Walker RB 5-11 200 so 4 Anthony Vema~lia DB 6-3 221 so 5 Rhema McKnig t WR 6-1 215 SR 6 Ray Herring DB 6-0 199 FR 7 Darrin Bragg WR 6-1 192 so 8 junior Jabbie RB 6-0 188 so 9 Tom Zbikowski DB 5-11 203 JR 10 Brady Quinn QB 6-4 231 )R 11 David Crimes WR 6-0 170 FR 12 Marty Mooney QB 6-2 207 SR 13 Evan Sha:Uley QB 6-2 207 FR 14 David Woke QB 6-2 196 FR 15 Leo Ferrine DB 6-0 186 so 16 Rashon Powers-Neal RB 6-3 238 SR 17 Geoffrey Price 6-3 186 SR
p 17 Dan Gorski QB 6-3 196 FR 18 Chinedum Ndukwe DB 6-2 219 JR 19 D.). Fitzpatrick K/P 6-2 206 SR 20 Terrail Lambert DB 5-11 188 so 21 Maurice Stovall WR 6-5 222 SR 22 Ambrose Wooden CB 5-11 197 )R 23 Chase Ana::;tasio WR 6-2 203 JR 23 W. David Williams DB 5-10 170 so 
Sept. 3 Sept.lO Sept.l7 Sept.24 Oct.Ol Oct. 15 Oct. 22 Nov.5 Nov. 12 Nov. 19 Nov.26 
24 Br.lndon Erickson 25 Nate Schiccatano 26 Wade lams 
.26 Travis Thomas 27 David Bruton 27 john Lyons 28 Kyle McCarthy 29 La Brose Hedgemon 30 Mike Richardson 31 Jake Carney 32 jeff Jenkins 32 Alvin Reynolds 33 1ustin Hoskins 34 Tommie Lee 35 Ashley McConnell 35 Tim Kcnnev 36 Brandon H.irris 37 Junior Jabbit.• 37 Mc1tt MitcheH 38 Nick Possley 39 Brandon Hoyte 40 Maurice Crum, Jr. 41 Scott Smith 42 Kevin Washington 43 Anthon?. Salvador 
44 
45 ~!~f~io~~wapp 45 Rich Whitney 46 
47 ~~~~~c~~:1mas 
48 Steve Quinn 49 Matt Augustyn 50 Dan Santucci 52 Joe Brockington 53 )o>eph Boland 54 David fitzgerald 57 Nick Borsc..'ti 
57 ~~J~r~;~dahenson
58 59 James Bent 60 Casey Cullen 61 j.J. jansen 62 Scott Raridon 63 jeff Tisak 66 Derek Landri 68 
69 ~·~tk~:~~~ 
71 james Bone!~ 72 Paul Duncan 73 Mark LeVoir 74 Dan Stevenson 75 Chris Frome 76 Bob Morton 77 Michael Turkovich 78 john Sullivan 79 Brian Mattes 81 Rob Woods 82 Matt Shelton 83 jeff Samardzija 84 Michael O'Hara 85 
85 t;'[~e~~=~ico 
87 Marcus Freeman 88 Anthony Fasano 89 john Carlson 90 Brian Beidatsch 91 Craig Cardillo 92 Derrell Hand 93 Dan Chervanick 94 Justin Brown 95 Victor Abiamiri 96 Bobby Renkes 96 Pat Kuntz 98 Trevor Laws 99 Ronald Talley 
WR 6-0 DL 6-2 DB 5-9 RB 6-0 DB 6-2 RB 6-1 DB 6-0 DB 5-9 DB 5-11 DB 6-0 RB 6-0 DB 5-10 RB 5-10 DB 6-2 RB 6-0 DB 6-0 DB 6-0 DB 5-11 DB 5-8 WR 6-1 LB 6-0 LB 6-0 LB 6-3 LB 6-1 LB 6-2 RB 6-0 K . 5-10 DB 6-2 LB 6-1 LB 6-3 LB 6-2 FB 6-3 OL 6-4 LB 6-1 LB 6-2 OL 6-4 LB 6-4 DL 6-2 LB 6-1 OL 6-2 DL 6-1 LS 6-3 OL 6-7 OL 6-3 DL 6-3 OL 6-5 DL 5-11 OL 6-5 OL 6-7 OL 6-7 OL 6-6 DL 6-5 OL 6-4 OL 6-6 OL 6-4 OL 6-6 WR 6-2 WR 6-0 WR 6-5 WR 5-10 . TE 6-4 TE 6-5 TE 6-3 TE 6-5 TE 6-5 DL 6-3 K 6-0 DL 6-3 DL 6-1 DL 6-3 DL 6-4 K 6-0 DL 6-2 DL 6-1 DL 6-4 

178 237 188 215 187 205 189 190 193 187 232 180 186 200 247 180 198 190 187 183 236 220 234 231 233 250 183 213 234 240 220 220 290 212 242 293 238 252 220 265 238 242 304 305 263. 288 260 280 292 311 292 268 292 290 298 285 208 172 216 180 253 245 245 255 255 294 174 301 259 247 260 195 267 293 261 
so 
SR 
so 
JR FR JR FR JR SR SR SR 
so 
so 
)R JR JR SR FR 
SR 
so 
SR 
so 
FR FR SR FR )R 
JR SR JR JR JR SR JR SR SR JR JR 
so 
SR )R 
so 
SR FR SR JR SR SR FR SR SR SR SR FR )R SR SR SR )R SR FR 
so 
. SR SR SR SR JR FR SR 
so 
JR JR FR JR 
so 
COACHING 
After a 21-point come­back effort against Michigan State fell short, Charlie Weis has a new challenge as head coach: helping his team rebound from the heart-breaking loss. After a unimpressive game in Ann Arbor, Weis' offense is back on track. 
To say the Irish know Ty Willingham would be an understatement. After an 8-0 start to the 2002 season, Willingham struggled, losing 16 of his last 29 games, including record blowout losses to Michigan (38-0) and Florida State (37 -0). 
This is the game Willingham has been waiting for since he 'signed on with the Huskies this winter. In an emotion ally-charged contest, Weis' superior play-calling abilities should help the Irish take care of Willingham's Huskies. 

QUARTERBACKS 
Brady Quinn was all he could be last weekend, tossing a Notre Dame record five touchdowns and a career-high 487 yards. Currently ninth nationally in passing yards (854) and tied for fourth in touchdowns (9), Quinn is on his way to a career year. 
Isaiah Stanback enters the contest ranked 29th nationally in passing yards (688). After appear­ing in 11 games in 2003 as a receiver and kick returner, Stanback switched to quarterback last season, playing in seven games and posting 389 passing yards. 
IRISH RUSHING 
Darius Walker produa..'CI his third-straight 20-c~, 100­yard game against Michigan State. Fullback Asaph Schwapp struggled in short yardage situations last week, losing a yard on five carries, including a fumble at the goal line and a failed attempt to convert a crucial lhurth quarter fourth down. 
The Huskies are struggling at stopping the run, yielding 166.7 yards a game -an average that would be much worse without last week's 34-6 win over doormat Idaho. Both Air Force and California ran for over 200 yards against Washington. 
After the Irish offensive
After a record-breaking 
line punched holes at will
game against Michigan 
against Pittsburgh in the
State, Quinn is ready to 
season opener to the tune ·
break out for good. Look 
of 275 yards, they may
for more of the same 
have an even easier time
against a mediocre 
this weekend. Walknr is
Huskies pass defense, 
still looking for that first
except this time, Quinn's 
huge game, and the
efforts result in a win for 
Huskies' weak run defense 
the heavily-favored Irish 
is the perfect victim.
squad. 

IRISH PASSING 
With Rhema McKnight out, receivers Jeff Samardzija and Maurice Stovall and tight end Anthony Fasano all stepped up their game last week. Stovall racked up 176 receiving yards and Samardzija found the end zone thren times in the loss. 
Free safety Dashon Goldson is tied lor the team lead in tackles with 24. A'> a unii, the .H~skies are giving up 222.7 passing yards per game and have three interceptions on the year. The secondary was torched for 271 yards and four touchdowns in week two against California. 
Even without McKnight, the Irish passing game flourished last week. After using his height to dominate the Spartans, Stovall could be ready to become the threat that made him a high school All American. Samardzija's nose for the endzone will continue paying dividends. 
L&.l 
::!: 
<
Q L&.l 
a: 
..... 
0 
z 




Notre Dame is going to take. out all of its frus­The Irish need a win, even though 2-1 is a trations from last week's overtime loss to respectable record with their schedule. And 
Notre Dame scheduled this game perfectly. 
Michigan State on Washington and head coach
Irish 

Tyrone Willingham. Washington will be ultimately stands little chance. The Irish win 
Washington will give Notre Dame a fight but 
pumped up to win one forTy, but Notre Dame's convincingly but slow the offensive barrage 
talent and experience will prove too much for
experts the Huskies to handle.
late out of respect for Willingham. 


Pat Leonard 

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38 Managing Editor Washington 6 Washington 17 
Heather Van Hoegarden 
AME 

------~--~---c--------------~------------------~---,-.----------~
.-.­

' ' ' 
Friday, September 23, 2005 page 5 
The Observer+ SPORTS 
-

Washington 
Huskies

HEAD 
Record: 1-2 AP: NR

Washington Huskies Coaches: NR 

WillE RECIIWilR
WASHINGTON ~-­
3-Ciuuubm 
21-Shukelford
OFFENSE ~ 
LfU'fTACKI..E 
t't6~MfudfiW 

TAII.B/\l'K l.ErrGUIIRIJ 9-R•nkln llii.I.IIAC"K ()LIARTERBAt'K 6l·S•'•U 
lt-Jmncl! ll·.'ilm~ti -t-.")hmlu~~k 74-0unh:b 
~Vl·f.n>s .ll·DuRu.:hl!l 
(;~~ 

HUSKIES RUSHING HUSKIES PASSING 
Co-captain linebacker Brandon I Joyto (29 taeklos, night for loss) loads a Notn~ Damn rushing ddonse allowing 12(, yards a game. Corny Mays and Victor Ahiamiri have both bonn nf'f'eetivn at catching runrwrs in tho baekf'iold -both have thrm~ tacklns fi1r loss.  
Sophomorn running back IAlUis Hankin is ranknd 29th nationally with 2(,5 yards and has gone over 100 yards in two of three gam•-s. indurling 115 yards and a touchdown against Idaho lm;t week. Stanbuek is also a ttm~at to run, pick­ing up 70 nd ntshing yards.  
Hankin is a solid running baek, but nothing more than the Irish have already seon so .far this year. A talen ted Notre Dame defensive line r,ou­plod with tho linebnek­ing of lloyto, Mays, and Maurice r.rum Jr. could make it long day for Hankin and the Huskies.  

After holding the vauntn.d Michigan offense and Heisman· hopeful quarterback Chad Ilenno to 1 0 points on the road, the pass defense took a step backward against Miehigan State, allowing 327 passing yards and thrne touchdowns through the air. 
Led by receiver Sonny Shackolf'ord (12 eatchns, 199 yards, one touchdown), Washington uses five receivers to varying dngrees. Craig Chambers only has f'ive eatehns this season, but wont over 100 receiving yards in three of' thn five games he played. 
Stanbaek has some options on offense, but the Irish secondary will be eager to prove that last week's break down was the f+Xel:)ption instead of_the nprm. qoo,k for Tom ~.bik~fws~L.Jv Je<ltl;' a fired up young secondary looking for some redemption against a decent passing oll'ense. 

Ty Willingham first season at Washington career record: 
CORNERBACK 
66-53-1
JIH~II;bord,.n
;:·· .. 
.:2.9~H~dCilemnn ll 

at Washington:
i ,'' "\'"·"· \' 
1-2
OUTSIDE ·~ 


• LIN!lllACKER .:.. 1 

against Notre Tyrone Willingham 
Dame: 0-0 head coach
' !) 

WASHINGTON 2004 Schedule  
Sept. 3 AIR FORCE-L Sept. 10 CAL-L Sept. 17 IDAHO-W Sept. 24 NOTRE DAME Oct. 1 at UCLA Oct. 15 at Oregon Oct. 22 usc Oct. 29 at Arizona State Nov. 5 OREGON STATE Nov. 12 at Arizona Nov. 19 WASHINGTON STATE  

No. 1 3 3 4 5 5 
0 
6 
7 7 
H 
H 9 lO 11 11 12 12 13 13 14 14 15 15 16 17 17 18 18 19 20 20 21 22 22 23 23 24 24 26 27 28 29 

SPECIAL TEAMS INTANGIBLES 
The Irish enter the contest on the heels of a heart-breaker and are anxious to erase the memories of' a trmnendous eomcbaek that almost was. The Irish have looked good on the road, knocking oil' two defending conference ehamps in Pittsburgh and Michigan.  
Arter a pair ol' disappointing losses to open the season, includ­ing a blowout versus California that saw the Huskies give up the most points at home· in school history (56}, Washington bounced back to rout Idaho 34-6 last week.  
The atmosphere in Seattle will be electric this weekend when the face of Notre Dame's. past ·., h1~ha;m?me< e i4. \fei$. 'E\itl o ego footbdlllans. tuning in for this one. The Irish badly need a victory to validate the much eriticized coaching change.  

29 31 
Kicked D.J. Fitzpatrick 
hit a duteh, go-ahnad 44­
32 
34
z
yard field goal in 
37
0 
40
overtime to give the Irish 
...... 
41 
a ehanee, but his miss on 
::0 
42 
43
I'T1
a 4S-yarder narlier in the 
45 
c 
46
game proved to be the 
47
)>
dif'f'erenee. Zbikowski 
48 49
s:
looked good returning 
50
I'T1 
51 53
punts, picking up 22 
yards on two mturns. 
54 55 56 57 5H
Kicker Evan Knudson has 
5Y 60
hit 4-ol'-5 field goals this 
61 h2 63 
season. Punter Sean 
Douglass is averaging 44.5 
~ 
64
t/) 
66
yards per punt, and has 
67
::r:::: 
OR
pinnnd Um opposition inside 
70
z
the 20 five times. The 
71 72
C)
Huskies have struggled 
...... 
73
0 
74
returning punts, averaging 
z 75
a meager live yards per 
76 
77
rnturn. 
78 
79 
HO H1 81 82 83 
Knudson and Fitzpatrick 
have both been solid this 
84 85
year, but the Irish tower 

H5 80 87 
over the Huskies in punt 
return potential. While the 
H8 89
Irish shouldn't have much 
91 Y2 93 
trouble containing the 
Huskies punt returners, 
94 Y5 97 
Zbikowski is a threat to 
score every time he 
9H 99
touches the ball. 
Roster 
Name Pos. Ill. Wt. Yl! C.). Walla«· ss IJ.l) 205 )I! Craig Chr1mlwrs WR 6-3 205 so 
ss 6~h 215 so
~~r!~ ~~~~~h~~.~~ Qll 6-3 205 )R 
WR 5-11 IH5 so
~~~~~j~~~~~=sn J)fl so
n-1 21.~ Matt Fount.tin<> Cll 5-11 INO JR Th Eriks FB 6-2 245 SR S elton Sampson Rll 5-11 210 JR Gn•vson Gunlwim DE 6-2 245 so Kl~nny James RR 5-lll 215 JR D<1shon Goldson FS n-2 195 JR Louis R.mkin J{ll o-0 195 so Evan Knudson I'K 6-ll 175 SR CariBomu•ll QH h-.J 2(KJ so Michael Book I'K 6-3 1~5 )I! JohndJ Dunlcht•r (..lll o-4 215 so josh ktl('bor CR 5-10 175 )I~ 
I'K 6-0 185 FR ~r,~~~~~·s~~~ WI~ 1>-11 1~5 so WadL• Gurnt•tl en 5-11 IH5 Fl{ Mich.wl Braunsh•in l'K 5-8 IH5 so Casey Paus QB o-5 225 SR Darin l-lcuris FS 5-11 200 so Steve llomn ss 5-11 1~11 JR 
l:(.'(ix Sweetman QB 6-2 225 JR Scan Doulflas I' n-1 215 )R Corey Wi i.1ms WI! 6-2 1~0 JR Carlos St.•rram1 ~'S 5·9 1HO JR Mt•sphin Porn•Hh.•r ss 6-2 185 FR KyleTn.•w lUI 6-2 220 so Troy Perry WR 5-11 200 )R Sonny Shackelford WR 6-2 IHO JR )ames Sims, Jr. I'll 6-1 205 SR E.). Savannah l.ll 6-2 215 FR Desmond Dc1vis IJB 5-11 1~0 Jill Quintin Daniels WR 6-0 1~5 JR 
J.R Hasty RB 5-11 200 FR John Gardenhin• CB o-0 205 JR 
J.R. Wolfork WR 5-10 IH5 SR Chikh Davis 1{]1 5-10 205 FR Roy Lewis Cll s:11 185 so Cody Ellis WR 6-0 11!5 so Chris Stf'Vt.•ns 1.11 6-0 145 FR Kim Taylor Cl! f>-(J !IICI J!< LukL• Kr,lVitz FB 6-1 225 I'R Danil'l I lowl'll 11.11 b-1 215 so Johnie Kirton Rll 6-3 2HO FR 
OI.B 6-2 215 FR
{~~~~~i~)~~1~ DE 6-3 245 )I! Chris Singlt•ttm Rll 6-0 205 SR T.J. Pot• 01.!1 f>-1 205 FR Brian Tawm•y 11.11 6-2 210 SR Clan·nt..·l· Simpsc.m CB 6-3 190 )I~ Tahj Bomar OI.B 6-2 215 IR Ryan Campbdl Ol.JI 5-10 210 JR Bl•n Warn•n lUI 6-0 210 JR Brad Vanm•man c 1>-3 305 SR Brandon Lt•vritz c n-3 :115 SR Joe l.obmd.1hn II.II 5-10 230 SR William K.wa oc 6-3 275 so TuiAlailef,lleul,1 OG 6-4 335 SR Manast• I lopoi DT o-4 2~0 SR Trenton Tuiasosup\l lUI 6·2 210 FR Juan Garcia OG 6-.J 310 JR Darrinn Jnm·~ 1.11 h-3 22'i I'R )aspt•r Ht•nry DT 6-2 280 I'R Tusi Sa'au UG 6·2 325 SR Robt.•rt Lukcvkh c 6-2 2'i0 I'R Clay WaikL•r ()(; 6-4 300 )R Jason BL•nn OT 6-5 265 JR Daniel Tt.•'o-Nt.•sht•im DL 6-4 215 1'1< jtK•Tolt'do OT 1>-6 290 SR Robin Ml•adow OT 6-6 2Y5 SR M<,rgan Rtlsbonlu~h OT 6-6 3YO FR Jovon O'Connor OT 6-5 315 FR Casey Bulyca tx; b-5 315 ER 
(X~ 6-2 2H5 I'R~f~~~t~~~a NT 6-3 2~0 so Chad Macklin OT b-H 300 so Nathan Flowl'rfol OT 6-3 335 I'R Erick Lobos DT 6-3 :100 so MikeNahl UG 6-2 :100 FR Bt•n Ossai OL 6-6 2~0 FR Matthew Smilh WR 6-0 170 JR Alex Mercit•r WR 6-1 190 )R 
DT b-3 215 SR
~;W'i11;:~~~ TE 6-6 210 FR Marion Wood WR 5-10 1HO so Sho Yoshinaga WR 5-9 175 so Caes.r Rayford DE 6-6 225 so Dash Crutchley TE 6-6 255 JR Micha,•l Goitli<•b TE 6-5 240 FR jason Goodman TE 6-4 225 so Robert Lewis TE 6-5 210 so Chris Rohrbach WR 6-0 180 so 
DT 6-5 285 JR
R~Jt~i~;~t~·nki 
DE 6-5 245 I'R Michael Russell DT 6-2 211() SR Jordan Whitt•-Prislwe NT 6-6 335 so jordan Roff<otl NT 6-6 2295 so Mikt.• Mapuolt~scF;i"l DE b-3 270 SR Dan Milst('n NT 6-5 2YO JR jared Bmnson TE 6-5 235 so 

While Tyronn Willingham may very well turn Washin~-,rton into a winner again, it won't be this year. The Irish are bigger, faster and more talented than the lluskies, but playing on the road won't be easy fi1r Notre Dame. Washington would love to win this lilr Willingham but Notre Dame just too good. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 36 Washington 20 


An already-critical national media would have an absolute field day if' Notre Dame and new coach Charlie Weis fall to underachieving Washington and former leader Ty Willingham. Fear not Irish faithl'ul, the Huskies' bite is as weak as their bark. Quinn and Walker star in a Iaugher. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 44 Washington 17 
Irish experts 
.. 

' 0 • ' ' • ' I ' 
Friday, September 23, 2005 
page 6 The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER 
Sizing up the Irish and the Huskies 
NOTRE DAME'S OFFENSE WASHINGTON'S OFFENSE 
vs vs 
AVERAGE PER GAME WASHINGTON'S DEFENSE NOTRE DAME'S DEFENSE 

total yards gained total yards allowed 
rushing yards gained rushing yards allowed 
passing yards gained passing yards allowed kick return yards gained 1 4&sl kick return yards allowed -­

punt return yards gained ~.31 punt return yards allowed : • 

yards per punt 
44.5
I 
39.91 

punts blocked 
0 ~ 1 

turnovers lost turnovers recovered 
total points scored total points allowed Notre Dame yards penalized 


69.0 

Michigan yards penalized 

NOTRE DAME 
RUNNING BACKS 
Running back Darius Walker, above, has been a workhorse for the Irish this season, racking up 320 rushing yards and 98 receiving yards on 13 receptions. Walker has found the end zone three times this year. 
Fullback Asaph Schwapp was ineffective in short yardage situations last week, fumbling at the goal line before being stuffed on a crucial fourth-and-one late in the fourth quar­ter. 
After scoring three times against the Panthers in the season opener, fullback Rashon Powers-Neal didn't see action last week. 
WASHINGTON 
RUN DEFENSE 

After allowing over 200 rushing yards in each of its first two games against Air Force and California, Washington was dominant against the run last week. 
Senior defensive tackle Manase Hopoi, above, leads an experienced central defense that held visting Idaho to -4 rushing yards in the Huskies' 34-6 win. 
All three Washington linebackers and both safeties are returning starters. 
If Washington hopes to have a chance, they need to shut down the elusive running of Walker. 

Perth, Australia 
IFor students in the Colleges of Science and Engineering Onl~ 
Tuesday,Sept.27,2005 
Room 129 DeBartolo Hall 5:30-7:00 pm 
Application deadline: November 15, 2005 for Fall2006 only Apply on-line: www.nd.edu/-intlstud 
Friday, September 23, 2005 
The Observer+ IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Ndukwe thriving as the starting free safety 
always eomfortable here, and I Mike Hichardson -present a
Safety attended games 
still know a lot of people that I challenge to the Washington while in eighth grade met eom.ir~g up. It was a really offense this week as they have easy dnerswn. developed a knack for making ­That comfort level is visiblo the big play. Hichardson 
By MIKE GILLOON 
on the field this season as recorded a sack against the Sports Editor 
Ndukwe has Spartans, established him-Zbikowski has Chirwdum Ndukwn has bonn soli' as a standout two intereep­
"/ was always

at.tnnding Irish football gamns on a surprisingly tions, a foreed for a whiln. I lis oldnr brothor stilT Irish dof'ensn. comfortable here, fum bin and 24 was a studnnt at Notn~ Damn lin has throe and I still know a lacklns while whnn lw was in tlw nighth furnbln rncovnr­Wooden leads the
lot ofpeople that!

gratin. But his parents didn't ies, orw inlorcep­team with three got too nxdtnd about football. tion and 12 tack­met coming up." pas~ break-ups. so thny would Int. Ndukwn and Ins through lhrnn Ndukwn erndits a frinnd usn tlwir ticknts and games. tho strong bond
Chinedum Ndukwe 

como up for a garnn. Thnsn are he shares with
Irish safety 

Tlw Notrn Damn frnn safnty imprnssivn statis­his tnammates had no rlun that just a fnw tics for a playnr oiT the field as ynars latnr hn and his frinnd, in his l'irst year the reason rurrnnt Irish quartnrbaek as a startnr. But Ndukwe behind their solid play this sea­Brady Quinn, would both bn bnlinves his rnt.urn of' 14 yards son. startnrs for thn vnry team tlwy aftnr an interenption against "We're always togethnr," usnd to waf.l·.h as kids. Miehigan Slate last wnek was­Ndukwo said. "Even if ~e go 
''In eighth gradn wn usnd to n't good enough for someone out at night al'ter a game, we comP up, it was random, wn who eaught 150 passes for always end up meeting up with wnrnn't !wing n~rruitml or any­2,174 yards and 24 touch-each other. Being the guys we thing," Ndukwn downs as Quinn's are, we're always having fun said. "Wn usml favorite target at together." to party at Dublin Coffman Tho bond is comparable to
"We used to party
Turtln Crnnk lligh School in Ohio. the fenling Ndukwe sharnd
at Turtle .Creek 
aftnr tho "I felt like I lwas with Quinn when they starred ganws. ll was after the games. " on ol'f'ensel but I together in high sehool. fun. Wn always didn't look like it," "In high school, it was just nw had a good Ndukwe said. "ll and him, and everybody in the
Chinedum Ndukwe
tinw." was niee to actually world knew it was going to
Irish safety 
Ndukwe rn~d­get out there and happnn," Ndukwe said. ''I'm its thosn PXpP-makn a big play, but just l'inally exeited to get out riPncPs with I should have taken there and play and hopefully <)uinn and his oldnr brotlwr as it baek for a touchdown. someday be as big an irnpaet a big n•ason lw nndnd up com­llopel'ully this wonk it will hap­player as !Quinn! has bt~en ing to Notrn Damn. pnn." here. I just want to make plays 
"Wiwn it canw limn to makn Ndukwe and his secondary and have fun." the dneision )about what eol­teammates -strong safety lt~gP to attnrHII it was a lot nasi­Tom Zbikowski and eorner­Contact Mike Gilloon at Pr," Ndukwe said. "I was baeks Ambrose Wooden and mgilloon@nd:edu 

Stanback, Washington offense ready to bite 

By MATT PUGLISI 
Associare Spons Ediwr 

Like Michigan State, Washington enters tomorrow's game against Notre Dame on the heels of a big vietory over a perennial doormat-the Spartans routed both Hawaii and Kent State before knocking ofT the favored Irish 44-41 at Notrn Dame Stadium, while the Huskies thumped a weak Idaho squad, 34-6. 
However, while the Irish loomed as the first real test for the Spartans, the Huskies have already sat for that exam. 
They failed miserably. 

Hosting PAC 10 rival Califi>rnia at home, Washington was trounced 56-17, yielding the most poinl<> at home in the histo­ry of the program and showing the college football world that while a new coach in Ty Willingham patrols the sidelines, little has changed thus far-at least in terms of on-the-field results-sinee Washington wrapped up a dismal 1-10 sea­son )a<;t November. 
llowever, if there was ever a time for the Huskies to make a statement and right the ship, tomorrow is it. 
With his former team-includ­ing many of the players he per­sonally reeruited-eoming to town, Willingham acknowledges the fanfare surrounding tomor­row's eontest, as well as the impact a Husky victory could have on the rebuilding program. 
"This is a big game," Willingham said at Monday's press (:onforenee. "It will be highlighted and hypnd to a gn~at extent by a lot peopln around tim eountry. So that means a lot of attention will be on it. a lot of eyes pn it and you get excited when you have those kind of venues to pnrform li>r." 
And oftentimes in hyped games, it isn't just the stars that makn the difference, but the more unheraldnd players. 
While he hmm't quite matcht~d Irish quarterbaek Brady Quinn's numbers this season. Huskies quarterback Isaiah Stanbaek is 29th nationally in pa<>sing yards 
(688) and has tossed limr toueh­downs over the season's first tlm~e games. 
In addition, Stanbaek provides a dual threat with his logs, pick­ing up 70 yards and touchdown over 19 carries 
"[Stanbaek'sl a converted wide reeeiver, very athletic, big arm," Weis said at Tuesday's press conference. "Last week he showed how he ean run an clli­cient game." 
While none of' his targnl<> boast big numbers-receiver Sonny Shaeke11ord is the only m1~mbnr of the team with more than nine catches or 150 yards, leading the squad in both categories with 12 and 199, respectively-Stanbaek nevertheless has some options. 
A highly touted receiving recruit coming out of high school-he was ranked 11th nationally at the position by recruiting website rival.eom­Craig Chambers provides the lluskies with a deep threat, a particularly valuable eommodity against a young and vulnerable Irish sectmdary. 
Starting only four games last snason, Charnbnrs racknd up 40X yards and a pair of toudJ­downs on 19 catches, induding a big eight-eatch, 1 X!J-yard pt~r­lbrmance against Calili>rnia. 

This season, Chambers has mostly bonn a non-factor. grab­bing only livn balls li>r 129 yards and a touchdown. 
Although his taltmt isn't irnrnn­diately evident in his 2005 num­bers, Weis and tlw Notrt~ I>anw coaching stall' art~n't foolt~d. 
"Ile's somebody that won't sneak up on us," Wnis said. 
On the ground, running back Louis Hankin has posted rnspeetable nurnbnrs, rushing for 265 yards on 55 attempts. Hankin paced the Huskins oll'ense last week. grinding out 115 yards and a touchdown in the vktory. 
Like Chambers. Hankin was a well-respected recruit. In his senior ynar of high sehool, the sophomore found the end zone 41 times and posted 2,245 rush­ing yards. 
Hankin's 41 total touchdowns (35 rushing) wern the seeond highest total in Calili>rnia during 2002 and nearly earrind him to the Cal-I li Sports California Mr. Football player of the year award-he finished as one of 10 linalisl<>. 
While the visiting Irish have the edge over the Huskies in almost every eategory, the games are playml li>r a reason, and the Huskins can't wait to show the Irish tlwir bite is much worse than their current soft whine of a bark. 
Contact Matt Puglisi at mpuglisi@nd.edu 

page 8 Friday, September 23, 2005 
-

CONVOCATION 

Friday, September 23 @ JACC, 3-4:30 p.m. 
POST-INAUGURAL RECEPTION 
Friday, September 23 @ the Reflecting Pool ofthe Theodore M. Hesburgh Library immediately following the Convocation 

~UNIVERSITY OF 
~NOTRE DAME 










